

/
p
-m
SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
The Bulletin
SHEEP AND WOOL ISSUE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3981
Wednesday, May 30, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 300: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
KING’S SCHOOL, GRANTHAM, NURSERY OF MANY OF ENGLAND’S GREAT
THE ancient Lincolnshire town of Grantham, lying in a valley near the
source of the River Witham, between Lincoln and Leicester, has ds roots
deep in Saxon England. At the time of the Domesday Survey in 1086 it
was a well-established community, and from the reign of Edward the Con-
fessor to that of William 111 Grantham was part of the royal demesne. By
1463 it had received from Edward IV one of the early charters of
incorporation.
The growth of the medieval wool trade in Lincolnshire brought consider-
able wealth to the town, but its importance declined during the reign of
Henry VIII. Today it is not only the market and shopping centre for a wide
country area, but it is a thriving and growing industrial town noted through-
out the world for its engineering products and it has, in addition, many and
varied subsidiary industries of high repute.
Among the several historic buildings to be seen in Grantham is the old
Grammar School, or King’s School, shown in the accompanying illustration.
It was founded in the early 16th century by Richard Fox, Bishop oi
Winchester, and founder of Corpus Christi College at Oxford. It derives its
name from the refounding charter granted by Edward VI. The school is
renowned for the many distinguished men who received their early education
there. These included Sir William Cecil, minister of Queen Elizabeth I;
Henry More, the 17th-century philosopher; Colley Cibber, the 18th-century
poet and playwright; and most, distinguished of all was Sir Isaac Newton,
who carved his name on a window-sill. He is generally acknowledged as
among the world’s greatest men of science and he achieved immortal fame
for his work on the nature of white light, the calculus and gravitation. He
was bom in 1642 at Woolstorpe, Lincolnshire, the son of a farmer. After
leaving the Grantham Grammar School he studied at Trinity College,
Cambridge. In 1688 he represented Cambridge as a member of Parliament;
he was president of the Royal Society from 1703 until his death in 1727, and
he was buried among the illustrious in Westminster Abbey.


BOOKHUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only it suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
MARLOWE AND SHAKSPEARE
The fondness of today for an inside-
story is probably responsible for Calvin
Hoffman’s The Man Who Was Shake-
speare (Max Parrish) and the attention
paid to it. Fed on news of public men
pushed out of windows, seeking a
secret reason for every plain statement,
a bribe behind every balance-sheet and
conditioned by a detective-fiction made
up of the most brilliant prestidigitative
tricks in literary history, the genera]
reader sees little unusual in a state-
ment that an Elizabethan dramatist,
under threat of trial for his life, faked
his own death in a tavern-brawl and
thereafter, living and writing in secret,
became the greatest of all English
authors under the pseudonym of
William Shakspeare.
Mr. Hoffman has made no new dis-
covery. Piecing the known facts to-
gether he has written an interesting
thriller, in which, for his purposes,
everything agrees. The real discovery
was made by another American, Leslie
Hotson, who in 1925 uncovered in the
Public Record office, after more than
300 years, the coroner’s report on the
murder of Marlowe and the pardon
granted Ingram Frizer, the murderer,
signed by Queen Elizabeth.
Now, there is something about a
document of State with the Queen’s
signature on it that should require a
bit of upsetting. Mr. Hoffman goes
about upsetting it in the manner of an
Elizabethan dramatist formulating a
plot with his collaborator, the method
of “the good idea.” It would be a
good idea if the coroner was “acting
under instructions”; it would be a good
idea if the 16 jurymen who viewed the
body could be shown not to have been
convenable in the time stated; it would
be a good idea if Dr. S. A. Tanne-
baum’s monograph of 1928 question-
ing whether Marlowe could have died
instantly from a dagger-thrust above
the right eye were brought in with the
murderer’s shady character and his
services to Walsingham to prove that
“ • • • - Walsingham, assisted perhaps by
Marlowe... .plotted the murder.”
As against this airy supposition there
is the report of the inquest and the
pardon signed by the Queen. In what
court could such argument shake such
a document?
Wherever Mr. Hoffman comes up
against a fact it is the same story,
varied with admirable ingenuity. One
of the great obstacles to his theory is
the verses of Ben Jonson that preface
the First Folio:
To draw no envy, Shakespeare, on
thy name....
And tell, how far thou didst our
Lyly out-shine,
Or sporting Kyd, or Marlowe’s
mighty line . . .
Toujours l’aud ace—Mr. Hoffman
considers that this tremendous lament
and encomium was “made to order —
for money.” And as part of a plot to
confuse posterity: Walsingham had
read the plays written in secrecy by his
servant Marlowe, considered them not
too bad and had them published, with
a dedication to the Earls of Pembroke
and Montgomery written in imitation
of passages from Pliny and signed by
two humble players incapable of com-
posing it to give color to the story that
the plays were written by a third
humble .player who was incapable of
writing them. Mr. Hoffman is not even
above forcing a typical Elizabethan
trope into the service of his argument:,
the “J.M.” verses in the First Folio:
... .We thought thee dead, but this
thy printed worth,
Tells thy spectators that thou wenfst
but forth
To enter with applause . . .
i.e.: he died to live again in his plays.
Ah, no, says Mr. Hoffman: Marlowe
died to live again as Shakspeare.
Greene’s envious maledictions upon
the “upstart Crow, beautified with our
Feathers..: .in his own conceit the
only Shake-scene in a country,” lie
dismisses with the theory that “shake”
meant rumble-and-rant, that a “shake-
scene” was a ham-actor; and that, ham-
actor or not, it didn’t refer to Shak-
speare. The context, which shows that
Greene, a playwright, was inveighing
against another playwright who was
also an actor, Mr. Hoffman carefully
forgets; yet Shakspeare was both actor
and dramatist, and Marlowe was not
an actor.
It is in the argument-from-style that
Mr. Hoffman achieves his greatest
stroke of audacity. To produce Dr.
Mendenhall’s count of all the words in
Marlowe’s plays and 400,000 from the
works of Shakspeare to prove that
“Christopher Marlowe agrees with
Shakspeare as well as Shakspeare agrees
with himself” is excellent pedantry in
this age of accountancy; but . . . one
was interested to find how Mr. Hoff-
man would reconcile the clear, flowing
stream of narrative in Marlowe’s part
of “Hero and Leander” with the static,
tapestrylike figurations of Shakspeare’s
“Venus and Adonis.” It is absurdly
simple:—
This poem [“Venus and Adonis”]
bears such an astonishing stylistic
resemblance to Marlowe’s poem,
“Hero and Leander,” that conserva-
tive students state that the same
hand might well have written both.
The only “conservative students”
adduced to bolster this monstrous
assertion are H. C. Bartlett—“a close
resemblance in style”—and Oliver
Elton—“ ‘Venus and Adonis’ and ‘The
Rape of Lucrece’ are.... in the
Ovidian, Italianate decorative manner
which Christopher Marlowe had prac-
tised.” Mr. Hoffman should have
looked further, and into more authori-
ties, on this interesting point.
It does not need the long appendix
of parallelisms between Shakspeare’s
works and Marlowe’s to assure us that
Shakspeare was a literary thief or an
assiduous rewriter of other men’s plays.
One of the most instructive examples
has been printed by Middleton Murry,
of how, by interpolating a word or so
into a paragraph of North’s prose-
translation of Plutarch, he transformed
it into one of the greatest passages of
English blank-verse—the description
of Cleopatra on her barge; and, for
the most part, these parallel? drawn by
Mr. Hoffman, when they are not
childish likenings of similar use of the
contemporary poetic idiom, prove that
when Shakspeare drew on Marlowe he
generally altered it for the better or
made it into something quite different
For example:—
Marlowe:
Poppy and mandrake juice . . .
Shakspeare:
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Nor all the drowsy syrops of the
world ...
Marlowe :
Weep not for Mortimer
That scorns the world and as a
traveller
Goes to discover countries yet
unknown . . .
Shakspeare:
The undiscovered country from
whose bourne
No traveller returns . .
As the two men, writing stories at
the same time, were different in style,
so in their plays the urgent, ejaculative
style of Marlowe is to be differentiated
from the more rounded, musical and
philosophic tone of Shakspeare . . .
But these are only observations-by-
the-way. Mr. Hoffman has written an
ingenious fantasy; but fantasies do not
shake coroners’ reports or documents
signed by queens; and although he says
in this book that if the Walsingham
tomb were not to yield him his proof
he would not be deflected, the reader
must feel that what the tomb did in fact
contain proved a fitting conclusion to
Mr. Hoffman’s arguments: a pile of
sand.
R. McC.
The Art of Urbanity
It is pleasing to learn from Year
After Year (Angus and Robertson), his
second collection of essays from the
“Sun-Herald,” that Mr. Leon Gellert
has lost none of the august urbanity,
of which he is the sole Sydney prac-
titioner (his only rival,'the “Tele-
graph’s” Mr. Ross Campbell, having
yet to gain patina), and which is his
main distinction as he floats upon the
muddled and muddy stream of Sydney
prose.
Not that Mr. Gellert’s is a cloistered
and sequestered urbanity. It braves
the harsh air of Burran-avenue to
ponder a little vaguely the problem of
a streetful of broken-necked and dis-
embowelled tabby-cats; it marches
with a monkey-wrench to the relief of
the curvaceous Miss Chirrup and is
by no means disconcerted when the
leaking tap explodes in a spray and
drenches Miss Chirrup's blouse till it
looks like an advertisement for a film;
it elevates so mean a thing as a bottle
of beer to a bribe to secure from a
Botanic Gardens underling an
allegedly-rare plant which grows like a
conscience into a towering Norfolk-
pine; it pushes-in on a Macquarie-
street dentist without an appointment;
it lends a touch of awful reality to -
or it raises to the dignity of legend (one
is not sure which)—the legendary or
mundane (one cannot feel sure) “Our
Mr. Bailey” . . .
It is a helpful urbanity, dispensing
advice upon how to blackmail one’s
wife by the giving or withholding of
large cups of tea; how to squash
bankers; how to devise a code that
will enable a wife to inform her hus-
band without other people knowing
that he is not decently buttoned. But
perhaps the finest hour of this urbanity
is when he uses it to revive an old
chestnut, about a handsomely-equipped
fisherman who couldn’t get a bite and
a boy with a sapling and a bent pin
who pulled them in from the same
pool, by substituting spear-fishermen
for the boy.
Dinky-di
“Whacko, Mr. Gallagher!” said Mr.
Shean. “You beaut!”
“I beg your pardon?” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“ ’Struth, you old bludger,” said Mr.
Shean, “I haven’t seen yer for
centuries.”
“Mr. Shean.” said Mr. Gallagher,
“moderate your language.”
“Stone the crows, Mr. Gallagher!”
said Mr. Shean. “Yer don’t mean to
tell me yer don’t like being called a
bludger?”
“I regard it as a compliment,” said
Mr. Gallagher. “But undeserved.”
“Well, now,” said Mr. Shean, “that
just proves yer must be a dinky-di
Aussie, after all. Yer can call any
Aussie a b ”
“Illegitimate?” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Yeh,” said Mr. Shean. “And ’e
likes it. But if yer call ’im a bludger
’e’ll crown yer.”
“You beaut!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Stone the crows, you old stinker,
yer said it yerself!” said Mr. Shean.
“Said wot?” said Mr. Gallagher.
“How’s yer rotten form?”
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“I have been studying the Australian
language. It is in a novel entitled Out
of the Storm, by Mr. Russell Braddon,
published by Hutchinson’s. Now, when
the graziers in ‘Out of the Storm’ are
meeting Mrs. Maria Micholoch for the
first time after she has copped a stinker
—I beg your pardon: sustained a black
eye—when she was with the mob help-
ing Mrs. Petrov to get away from that
pair of bludgers at Mascot”— —
“Pull yer ’ead in!” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Wotinell’s all this?”
“I observed,” said Mr. Shean, “that
when the guests at the Shaws’ met Mrs.
Micholoch for the tennis-party the first
thing the first guest said to her was,
‘Well, well. How’s yer rotten form?
Bashed a copper, eh?’; and the first
thing the second guest said was,
‘ ’Strewth, what a stinker. ’Ere, Else,
just take a gander at Mrs. M.’s eye’;
and the first thing the third guest said
was, ‘So you done a cop over, Mrs.
Mitchell. Now, that’s something I’ve
always wanted to do.’ ”
“Too right!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Me, too. Every time I go out into
George-street an’ see that mug copper
over there by Wynyard, pushin’ every-
body around and haulin’ ’em out from
under the cars, ’struth, I can ’ardly
keep my ’ands orf the cow. If the
flamin’ drongo weren’t a bit bigger
than me”
“Stone the crows —I mean Good
Gracious, , Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr.
Shean, “I was about to remark”-
“Skip it!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Permit me,” said Mr. Shean. “I was
about to remark that Mr. Russell
Braddon’s use of the Australian idiom,
admirable and redolent of the aroma
of the red earth—not to say the floor
of the shearing-shed—though it may
be, is perhaps excessive.”
“ !” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Really, I don’t think he uses that
one,” said Mr. Shean. “But am I to
take it from your own astounding
descent into the vernacular that all
Australians do talk like that?”
“Too right,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“’Struth!” said Mr. Shean. “Even
at tennis?”
“Yell,” said Mr. Gallagher. “Every
flamin’ time.”
“Well, stone the crows, you old
drongo, I’m stonkered!” said Mr.
Shean.
“And well you may be,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “But about this Mrs.
Petrov business. Do you mean to say
that Mr. Braddon has really worked
that into his novel?”
“Too right,” said Mr. Shean. “That’s
where Maria got her stinker. She got
it fighting a copper at Mascot. You
know, that Petrov rort .. . Yeh,
butted him in the gut, booted him on
the shins. Did him over like a bomb.
Yeh, too right. All that’s on page
two-hiindred-and-five.”
“Gripes!” said Mr. Gallagher. “Does
she go around all the time doing people
over like a bomb?”
“In Austria,” said Mr. Shean, “she
kicks rats to death.”
“Fair dinkuin?” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Yeh,” said Mr. Shean. “But I must
not mislead you. Mr. Gallagher. It is
only under the most extreme provoca-
tion, such as that of rats and policemen,
that Maria takes to her boots. Other-
wise she is a mild, perfectly amiable
little woman; and this is a mild, per-
fectly amiable little novel, apparently
designed to show prospective New Aus-
tralians exactly what they may expect
in this wild country after all their
harrowing adventures in Europe.”
“They come out here and they go
through us like a bomb?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
“Well, Mr. Braddon does,” said Mr.
Shean. “Never a dull moment. One >
minute the Shaws, who befriended
Maria, are being eaten by millions of
rabbits; next minute they’re all wiped
out by myxomatosis--the rabbits, not
the Shaws—then up come millions of
grasshoppers, then drought, then rain;
up in Queensland they’re hunted by
taipans, down in Sydney there are
sharks, the children all get lost in the
bush and turn up triumphantly riding
home on a surf-ski . . .”
“Through the bush?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
“Through the bounding, crashing surf
of our glorious Australian coastline,”
said Mr. Shean. “I forget how they
got there; but you know how lost hikers
are continually riding home through the
surf. And then there are all these
unmannerly Sydney taxi-drivers shak-
ing their fists at old ladies, who
retaliate by shaking their umbrellas
. . . Well, spare me days, I never saw
a more lifelike picture of the joint.”
“Pliz,” said Mr. Gallagher. “And
Maria—she go ’ome? Iss too many
bludgers? No?”
“ ’Struth, no, you drongo,” said Mr.
Shean. “Maria falls in love with what
she calls—because of the Petrov busi-
ness—our ‘wonderful democracy.’ Shaw
says she makes him blush. She makes
me blush, too. Then she falls in love
with a speechless grazier with a beaut
property.”
“Pliz,” said Mr. Gallagher. “She
makes ’im blush, too?”
“She make ’im vairy ’appy,” said
Mr. Shean. “She marry ’im and they
all live vairy ’appy ever after; all the
more so, no doubt, because her hus-
band doesn’t, like the Shaws, keep
carpet-snakes in the dunny.”
“ ’Struth!” said Mr. Gallagher.
(Red Page continued on page 67)


V ' :
mHiilllM
mSM
sill
s %a a
ft si
M
llillliiilllll
Exclusive to A.H’s.
Crimean Shirts
/Right for comfort
/Right for style
/Right for warmth
/Right for price
Men’s cotton and wool Crimean shirts. These shirts
are exclusive to Anthony Horderns’. They have
been made to our specifications in that roortiy cut
for which our shirt department is famous. They
are in a f" check pattern on grounds of fawn and
blue. Soft attached boned peak collars with long
sleeves and single pocket. Collar sizes from to
18". For warmth, comfort and immaculate appear-
ance these shirts represent good value at £3/17/6.
Roomy, warm pyjamas right in price
t
DRY CLEANING
SERVICE
“Truclean” is the ulti-
mate in modern dry-
cleaning. It has been
adopted by Anthony
Horderns’ after months
of investigation both
here and overseas in
dry cleaning of fine gar-
ments and modern fab-
rics. Truclean restores
the original colours and
texture to all garments.
Truclean never varies.
Look for and feel the
difference in your gar-
ments when dry cleaned
by the "Truclean pro-
cess”.
Clothes Hospital
specialising in . . .
Alterations, Invisible
Mending, Dress wear
Re-silked, Relining, Re-
fitting to Suits, Cos-
tumes, Topcoats, etc.
//
1
A.
complete range of sizes
\
A. Wyncette flannelette pyjamas. Sizes SM to OS, price, 34/-; XOS, 37/6.
B. Relova heavyweight Crimean flannel, full fitting. M to XOS. Price, 69/6.
C. Suede flannelette pyjamas, in soft warm finish; tonings are in popular
colours of Blue, Grey, Green and Fawn. Sizes, SM to XOS. Priced at 49/6.
D. Physician flannel all wool pyjamas, extra warm and full roomy make.
These pyjamas are very popular. Sizes are M to XOS. Priced at £5/8/6.
POST YOUR ORDERS TO BOX 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
55
r .4
i
M
D.


The Bulletin
Vol 77 — No. 3981
Wednesday, May 30, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the Man**
Directors:
H. K.. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEA ? d , OFFI £E : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
WATER MEANS PROGRESS
THE recurrence of floods and the reactions from
flood-losses in wide areas of Australia underline
the need for an overall Australian scheme for flood-
prevention and water-conservation, for irrigation
and the generation of power and reclamation of
eroded lands.
A great deal is being done piecemeal, some of
it in big projects; but most of it is the work of
the States, and much of it .a hotchpotch of com-
promises built round a conflict of State rights.
The Snowy Mountains scheme shows what is
possible; but the Commonwealth has to consider not
only what will be best for the Commonwealth but
what the States involved will stand. There is a
continual argument as to the apportionment of
water- and power-resources as between New South
Wales, Victoria and South Australia (which is
naturally not going to have the Murray River flow
diverted if it can help it).
For an expenditure of £422 million—on recent
calculations—Australia will get 2,000,000 acres of
intensively irrigated new land, which is about equal
to the area which in Denmark supports 200,000
farms and 180,000 agricultural workers and keeps up
the staple of a population of 4,000,000. It will also
get an annual million kilowatts of power. The
scheme will take 30 years to complete, but is
supplying some power already.
The Snowy Mountains project has proved
valuable otherwise in that it has provided a
contrast between what private enterprise can do
and what Governments like the Cahill Ministry do
when presented with a challenge in competition with
others. On the Snowy Mountains the N.S.W. Public
Works Department undertook the biggest dam-
building job and set about putting in the huge earth-
and-rock bank which was to hold up the
Adaminaby Lake, eight times the capacity of
Sydney Harbor. But it has proved so slow that
the contract has slipped from its hands into that of
private enterprise, which on other jobs was making
its progress look poor. The building by
Norwegians of the Guthega hydroelectricity plant,
which is already supplying Sydney and towns as far
out as Orange with part of their power, and the
great tunnelling and other jobs being carried out
by the American Kaiser organisation and the French
show the speed with which these can be handled
when properly organised, and how little labor-
difficulties there need be where there, are proper
discipline and incentives.
As at Eildon, in Victoria, the overseas corpora-
tions which are involved in this work are teaching
Australia a new technique of production under a
veiy efficient overall commission-control which does
little except plan and supervise the carrying-out of
contracts.
In view of the magnitude of the job, it may
seem too much to suggest that the Snowy project
should be immediately reduplicated throughout the
country. The experience of dam-building by the
Cahill Government in N.S.W. has been one long
tragedy. The really important dams which
could control the floods of the Hunter River district
seem never likely to be finished, and the Clarence
River scheme, which was a more obvious starting-
point than the difficult Snowy Mountains plan,
hasn’t been touched.
Sir Earle Page has been one of the most con-
stant advocates of water-supply combined with
generation of hydroelectric power. He has now
placed a resolution before Parliament asking for the
appointment of a Commonwealth commission to
examine what action and financial assistance the
Commonwealth Government should give to flood-
prevention and -mitigation, to keep river-channels
clear to enable the escape of floodwaters and to
establish a national plan of flood-prevention and
for the use of water.
He has pointed out that, in the valley of the
Clarence in N.S.W. alone, 50,000 acres of the most
fertile land (worth £lOO an acre) lies idle for months,
or even years, after each flood, whereas if the
floodwaters were captured at the right point under
a sound engineering scheme the greater part of
flood-damage could be avoided and the stored water,
which is in effect stored power and fertility', would
more than pay for the cost of impounding it even
in the initial years of use.
He asserts that in North America the flow
of the Mississippi is nine times as much as the whole
of our flow. Yet with the development of water-
usage for power and irrigation, and the consequent
growth of population and industry, the -dwellers
along its banks are finding difficulty in meeting
their water needs. Water-usage in the United States
has doubled in 30 years, and it is calculated that it
will double again in another 30 years. In Australia,
the most poorly-watered and -fuelled of continents,
the water and power position in 30 years at the
present rate of growth of industry and population
will be desperate indeed unless there is a properly-
spread scheme, which must be extended to all parts
of the Commonwealth.
There is no reason why private enterprise
shouldn’t be allowed to enter into the job of power-
ed irrigation-development under proper safeguards
if it is willing to find the'capital.. In fact, there is
room in the far outback and the north for the
extension of such schemes as that being carried out
by the A.M.P. in South Australia, but with water-
storage in such rivers as the Ord and the Burdekin
as a basis.
Before the Commonwealth can enter fully into
a national scheme, however, some amendment of
the Constitution is needed. In this matter, as in
eveiything else, Canberra is hamstrung when it
comes to act. Its power to control navigation and
waterflow of rivers under Section 51 of the Consti-
tution is abridged by Section 100, which provides
that “the Commonwealth shall not, by any law
or regulation of trade or commerce, abridge a right
of a State or of the residents therein to the reason-
able use of the waters of rivets for conservation or
irrigation.” As things are, even the Snowy River
project had to be undertaken by a side-wind—by
the use of defence powers applied to special
circumstances.
The matter is one which should have particular
attention by the Constitutional committee which the
Commonwealth Government has appointed. In the
meantime some attempt should be made to bring
the States together in a comprehensive plan which
could be nationally financed for long-term
operations.
It is stupid not to make the water question
a first priority in national policy. Water is the
lifeblood of Australian progress.
Waterfront Facts and Figures
WHATEVER else may be said against the
Australian Stevedoring Industry Board, it can’t be
denied that when it comei to producing statistics
the institution takes a lot of beating. If it is desired
to find out how many tons of bagged oats were
handled per gang per hour on the Melbourne
wharves in the year 1950-51, Appendix 1 of the
board’s sixth annual report will supply the answer,
together with much kindred information. Similarly,
one may discover the number of man-hours lost
through rain at Beauty Point (Tas.); the amount of
work done at double-time-and-a-half rates at
Thevenard (S.A.); the amount of attendance-money
paid at Esperance (W.A.); or the number of wharfies
in the 75-79 age-group at Cairns (Q.). From all
this emerges some kind of picture of the Australian
waterfront; by no means complete—no picture
founded on statistics could possibly be that —but
nevertheless an interesting study.
The average wharfie employed during the year
1954-55 was 43 years old; he worked an average of
32.2 hours a week, for which he received £lB 2s. 7d.
(including ss. lOd. attendance-money). He was
almost a year younger than the average wharfie of
the two previous years, but a couple of months
older than the bloke of 1952. If he checked the
ages of his mates he’d find that his own age-group
(40-44) was the most numerous, closely followed
by the 35-39 group, then the 30-34 and the 45-49.
A survey of Port Kembla would suggest that
wharf-work is becoming a young man’s job—nearly
40 per cent, of the watersiders there are under 35 —
but in Brisbane it’s a different story—only 13.5
per cent, are in the “young” class, and 21 per cent,
are over 60. If retirement at 65 were made com-
pulsory on the waterfront 1668 wharfies would
have to pass in their hooks. Of these, 551 were past
70 at the end of June, 1955, and 17 were octogen-
arians. No details are given of the length of service
of these hardy veterans, but it seems likely that
some at least of them were on the wharves in the
days when Billy Hughes was organising the
wharfies; even the oldest of them would be a trifle
too young to have taken part in the first wharf-
strike—in January, 1886. In those days a clause
in the rules of the union required it to give three
months’ notice of intention to go on strike. Nowa-
days the striking wharfie doesn’t even get time to
warn his wife he’ll be home for lunch.
Last year 45,472,000 tons of cargo passed over
Australian wharves. In 1920-21, when the oldest
of today’s wharfies was a strapping young fallow
of 50, the tonnage was only 18,687,000. At the end
of the period under review there were 27,282 men
engaged in the industry, an increase of 2166 for
the year. Midway through the year, for about a
fortnight, there was no one engaged in it at all.
For some time before October, 1954, the board
had been finding recruitment of labor its “most
vexed problem.” Ports were worked on a quota-
system, and the onus of keeping the quotas filled
was on the Waterside Workers’ Federation. In
many ports the number of men available for work
was below the fixed quota, and the shipowners
complained that the federation was deliberately
restricting the intake of new members.
In October, 1954, the Federal Government
announced legislation to .appoint a Committee of
Inquiry into the organisation and operation of the
stevedoring industry. It also announced a new
system of recruitment vesting the right to recruit
new watersiders in the employers, subject to the
• right of the federation to reject any name submitted.
A fortnight’s strike, which included all ports,
followed, at the end of which, after a conference
between the A.C.T.U. and the employers, the latter
agreed “to give favorable consideration” to all
names submitted by the federation up to November
27 —the strike had lasted from November 2 to
November 15.
Work was resumed and quotas almost filled,
but thereafter no fresh names were submitted by
either the union or the employers. Numbers
dropped again through deaths, voluntary retire-
ments and disciplinary dismissals, until after a
further conference in February, 1955, an agreement
was reached, to apply until the completion of the
investigation of the Committee of Inquiry and any
Government decision that might follow.
This agreement virtually left the recruitment
in the hands of the federation, which undertook to
supply a sufficient number of names to the board
“with the quickest possible dispatch” on being
notified by employers of a deficiency in the quota
for a port. The board reports that thereafter the
manning position improved, with the result already
noted.
In the year 1954-55 wharfies worked a total
of 40,358,012 man-hours with varying degrees of
efficiency; in most ports the cargo-handling rate
per hour was lower than in the previous year. Time
lost through rain totalled 2,077,736 man-hours, and
time lost through strikes, 2,675,893 man-hours.
This last figure was the worst recorded since the
end of the war.
The Committee of Inquiry mentioned earlier
was originally enjoined to make its report “with
as little delay as possible and, if practicable, before
March 31, 1955.” Apparently it found quite a lot
of delay possible, and the date suggested quite
impracticable. It is still sitting, but on February
28 last it handed an interim report to the Minister
for Labor. This was tabled in the House on
March 15.
The interim report criticised the Stevedoring
Industry Board and recommended its replacement
by a new authority composed of at least three
full-time members, one to be a representative of
employing interests {but not connected with wharves
or shipping) and one to be selected from the trade-
union movement (but not a member of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation). This authority shoyld
have power to fix quotas, allocate labor and
deregister surplus labor in times of redundancy;
to impose fines as disciplinary measures on both
watersiders and employers; to deregister or suspend
watersiders or employers; to combat restrictive
practices of watersiders—such as going-slow, taking
spells and extending smoke-ohs. It also felt that
the authority should be given arbitral functions
over the industry now exercised by the Arbitration
Court, in which case a judge or a conciliation-
commissioner would be suggested as chairman.
The report criticised the W.W.F. for its attitude
over the years in the matter of filling port-quotas
and the Stevedoring Industry Board for being
dilatory in this regard. In support of its recommen-
dation of going outside the industry for members
of the new authority it said that this was required
in the interests of justice and fairness to employers,
employees and the community.
In tabling the interim report Mr. Holt fore-
shadowed early legislation, which is expected in
the current session. Dr. Evatt urged deferment of
action until the committee’s report on other points
of reference —costs and profits —was received.
These, he maintained, were the very essence of the
inquiry. The truth is that they were an after-
thought, added at the instance of Dr. Evatt. The
Opposition-leader’s real reason for wanting delay,
as in the case of the Arbitration Court Amendment
Bill, was to hold-up discussion until the new Senate
assembled in July.
Mr. Holt has not indicated how far he proposes
to follow the committee’s recommendations, but on
past indications the Communist bosses of the federa-
tion will oppose anything that tends to lessen their
control of the waterfront. And their present refusal
to handle so-called “black” wool will be used as a
bargaining weapon to gain the support of die
A.W.U., which, conjointly with the Leftist
industrial unions, controls Dr. Evatt and the
Federal “Labor”*party.


“WHO CALLED THE A.W.U. A SHEARER?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mother's Care
Vandalism has reached such proportions
in Victoria that the Bolte Government
will pass a bill in the spring session to
make parents responsible for wilful
damage caused by their offspring. Some
estimates of the cost of vandalism in the
State are as high as £3 million (by the
Employers’ Federation), but it is certainly
not less than one million, since actual
departmental figures total a substantial
part of that.
The largest bills are those footed by
the P.M.G.’s Department (£30,000 a year)
on the replacement of broken equipment
in telephone-boxes, and the Railways
Department (£40,0()0) on the destruction
of lights, fittings and windows in car-
riages ; but in recent months there has
been destruction, damage or defacement
of road-signs, marble statues, heavily-
laden orchards, graves, museum speci-
mens, rare creatures at the Zoo, a com-
munity hall, churches, a lookout-tower,
park fixtures, a creche, a swimming-pool,
house-fences, offices and factories.
The outcry for the capture and punish-
ment of culprits has been prolonged, and,
at times, violent, since these acts can’t pos-
sibly be the result of frustrations from
unemployment or financial poverty in
such a highly-favored nation. The small
voices, in contradistinction to those raised
in favor of whippings and jail-sentences,
that could easily be lost among so many,
are those of housewives at their con-
ference in favor simply of more affection,
care and motherly duties.
These are women who are sure of
themselves. They know exactly what is
happening from the behavior of their
neighbors where the mother, as well as
the father, goes out to work to pay for
new electrical gadgets or, more quickly,
for their house. The children are sub-
ordinated to their jobs, and they return
to an empty, cheerless, motherless house
each day, and wander out.
That tackles the problem where it
begins, in the home, and is more useful
a contribution than exaggerated talk of
exemplary measures against louts, screw-
balls and larrikins. Their acts are the
acts of larrikins, but they are widespread
and isolated instances without the con-
tinuity of larrikinism that was a feature
of the Melbourne gangs of long ago, and
they must be, chiefly, the work of hit-
and-run youngsters who are reluctant to
strike again. Moreover, some of the
punishments advocated would undoubt-
edly have been applied if the offenders
could have been caught. They can’t.
They don’t act until they’re safe.
Protagonists of child-welfare who have
spent a few days in a police-court are
aware of an almost invariable pattern
in the home-life of delinquents: they
have been brought up in divided homes or
without parental affection in orphanages
or similar institutions. The National
Council of Women has recognised the
danger of this deep-seated sense of inse-
curity in the products of these otherwise
simple, and sound-enough upbringings,
and has instituted an uncle-and-aunt plan
to make them feel, and indeed be,
cherished.
The desired effect of the Bolte Govern-
ment’s experimental legislation may be
achieved for a different reason. Mothers
suffering from the current malaise of
materialism may find it cheaper to stay
home and look after the children.
More Spirals
On May 24 Mr. Menzies tabled in Parlia-
ment the Government’s first annual
economic survey, which is, as was
expected, a cautionary document, reflect-
ing the trends and drifts which have been
evident to all.
Essentially, on the credit side, it is said,
in effect, that though the increased taxa-
tion imposed in March, along with higher
bank-rates and restrictive measures, can-
not be expected to give full results for
some time, these measures, plus a
natural tapering-off of business activity,
have lessened the pressure on the
economy. But “unless there is a large
rise in exports there will be little chance
of building up reserves to a more satis-
factory figure.” The danger is that
restriction in overseas earnings will push
down our import-level below the bare
needs of Australian industry and of the
rate of capital-expansion which the Com-
monwealth is currently attempting.
The constriction of imports, it is sug-
gested, will force the need for difficult
adjustments and might even result in the
“possibility of sectional, if temporary,
unemployment.”
The situation is painted as largely the
outcome of conflict between the pres-
sures of expansion in process of develop-
ment for the future and the pressure of
immediate individual consumer-demand,
which has led to overfull employment in
some avenues, resulting in higher wages
and higher prices, and to higher costs of
production.
With huge surpluses of primary pro-
ducts in the U.S.A. and Europe the job
of expanding Australia’s export income is
no light one, but nobody in Common-
wealth circles seems to be willing to risk
his political future by putting into plain,
honest words the unpalatable home-truth.
Menzies and McEwen may make all the
agreements in the world for the abroga-
tion of the Ottawa Agreement and the
substitution of something more favorable,
but the changes will be ineffective unless
the per-unit cost of Australian produc-
tion is brought down to world-competitive
level, and more production is pumped out
of each hour.
The Government seems unlikely to
secure much - co-operation from the
unions and the “Labor” party. Their
primary objective is to wreck any Govern-
ment which is not “Labor.” They
would even welcome a depression if it
would help them to attain power by
enabling them to blame it on Mr. Menzies
and his followers.
Over the past few months State
“Labor” Governments, playing politics,
have used the outmoded Harvester Award
C-series to restore instability to the basic
wage after the Federal Court had deliber-
ately abandoned the method.
Mr. Cahill and his shoddy friends
have, in fact, used basic-wage rises as
vote-buying bribes and have forced the
Victorian Government to follow suit.
Now the Federal Arbitration Court has
found it necessary to even-up - the
Federal awards to the State awards
(though not restoring automatic adjust-
ments), stimulating the old spiral all over
again—costs following wage-rises, more
wage-rises following the costs, margins
being revised again and strikes and loaf
being organised in the process.
The words of the judgment in the
Metal Trades application adding 10s. to
the basic wage were scarcely out of the
mouths of the judges before Mr. Monk of
the A.C.T.U. was trumpeting his “dis-
appointment” that the automatic adjust-
ments, which keep the spiral going in
the State spheres, had not been included.
He accuses the court of having refused
“wage justice.”
It is exceedingly difficult to believe that
men of the calibre of Mr. Monk and Mr.
Laurence' Short, who joined him in
expressing regret that the new Federal
rate fails to keep pace with Mr. Cahill’s
bribery scale, can’t see the real implica-
tions of continuing rises in a market in
which millions of pounds’-worth of wool
is held up by illegal strikes, and the coal-
industry and transport and other enter-
prises of State Governments are rapidly
going bankrupt under the impact of even
the present wage-scales and hours and
hour-content of work.
There are only two alternatives of
judgment about them; they are either
very stupid , men, or they don’t care
whether depression comes or not.
One-armed Bandits
Banned 25 years ago under the name of
fruit-machines, cussed and abused ever
since under the name of one-armed
bandits, poker-machines are today more
strongly entrenched in Sydney than ever
before. They’re apparently still agin the
law, but, owing to a combination of doubt
over its interpretation and benevolence
in its enforcement, they are permitted
to flourish in non-proprietary clubs—
which term is understood to mean clubs
of a sporting, social or fraternal nature
and which are not conducted for profit.
The idea behind this is that the money
that is swallowed by the one-armed
bandits doesn’t go to the enrichment of
individuals, but is used for the general
purposes of the club. It comes from the
members, and it is used to provide ameni-
ties for the members. “Amenities” covers
anything from biscuits-and-cheese to
repayments on the mortgage. Most clubs
would have to increase their subscriptions
vastly if the poker-machines were
banned; many would be unable to
carry on at all.
The right of clubs to run the machines
is now under challenge, and the challenge
comes not from the churches or anti-
gambling leagues but from those noted
“sports,” the licensed victuallers. The
U.L.V.A. is opposing the renewal of
several club-licences, basing its objection
on Section 140 of the Liquor Act, which
says that renewal of a club’s licence may
be refused on the ground that it is “not
conducted in good faith as a club or
that it is kept or habitually used for any
unlawful purpose or mainly for the supply
of liquor.”
The objection is a matter for the
Licensing Court to decide, but the time
is opportune for the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to clarify the position of clubs with
regard to poker-machines. The sensible
thing would be to give them by legislation
the status they now enjoy on sufferance,
at the same tirhe insisting that no outside
interests profit from the operation of
the machines ; at present many clubs hire
machines and the owners collect a big
rake-off. The hiring system should be
forbidden. There should also be a limit on
the percentage a club is allowed to make
on its machines. Members should be
told what the percentage is, and inspec-
tions by weights-and-measures inspectors
could ensure that, it is not exceeded.
Talk of taxing the turnover of the
machines should be dropped. The entire
argument for permitting the one-armed
bandits in clubs is that through them
club-members are giving their own money
to themselves. If that is so, then there’s
no justification for a tax. A small
annual fee could be charged to cover costs
of inspection, but it should bear no
relation to turnover.
Joyriding Regardless
Fares on Government transport are due
to rise in N. S. Wales at a moment when
the Transport Department is struggling
desperately to collect enough to keep its
ramshackle enterprise from sinking into
complete bankruptcy. But the transport
unions don’t seem to care. They would
seem almost anxious, as they threaten
strike after strike, to see the whole struc-
ture which gives them their living
collapse under them.
From anybody who travels in State
transport in N.S.W. it is possible to cull
the same tragic stories—of inefficiency,
discomfort, delay, rudeness, failure to
collect fares. It has come to such a pass
that anybody who has a little cunning
can, half the time, travel free in Sydney.
. Only a few days ago the Coal Industry
Committee appointed by the Federal
Government at the instance of the
Miners’ Federation, and representing
the Federal and State Governments, the
Joint Coal Board, the proprietors, the
A.C.T.U. and the relevant unions,, dis-
cussed priorities “in a bid to preserve the
N.S.W. coal-industry,” which, it seems,
is threatened with extinction, despite the
fact that its coal is the most easily mined
in the world.
The committee decided that priorities
for consideration were provision of
more markets, alternative uses for coal,
incidence of industrial disputes, coal-
loading facilities at Newcastle and —as
matters a>f more remote importance —
the problems of competition between
coal and other fuels, means of improv-
ing the quality of coal and (last) the
possibility of reducing the cost of pro-
duction.
Nobody suggested working a little
harder, a little more mechanisation, a
slightly longer working-week to reduce
the unit-cost of coal and enable it to
compete better in overseas markets.
Nobody said anything about the wanton
transport strikes and the huge imposts
of labor in a sea-carrying trade in which
a donkeyman on a ship can make up to
£2OOO a year.
This week’s contribution to the slide
towards ruin is a threat to tie-up the
port of Sydney because the Communist-
led wharfies and the tally-clerks refuse
to handle wool which they claim has
been shorn by non-A.W.U. men. Not
by men who are not observing the
award. The men who have shorn it are
obeying a law and an award based on
principles laid down by the A.W.U. •
itself. But because it now does not work
in favor of those who proposed it, the
disputes committee of the Trades and
Labor Council has ordered unions con-
cerned not to handle wool shorn by
stationowners and men who are obeying
the law.
The Trades and Labor Council has
asked the A.W.U. to issue lists of stations
which it has declared black, and these
lists will be distributed among members
Pf unions affiliated with the Labor
Council.
And all to satisfy the lust for power
of a few strong-arm men who wish to
usurp the functions of the Arbitration
Court and Industrial Commissions and
—it becomes more clear every day—of
the Government.
That they are steadily destroying the
sources of Australian wealth—our
greatest markets, our sources of power,
our economic labor-supply—does not
seem to trouble them a jot.
Motorist and Ratepayer
One of the most depressing pills that
those whose sense of the financially appo-
site is still acute must swallow is the
lack of public outcry in Victoria against
the complementary new traffic bills,
passed by the Assembly but still await-
ing Council decision.
Beyond a few letters in the “Age” and
the “Herald” from protesting ratepayers,
the bills have met with no real opposi-
tion, and the Melbourne press apparently
agrees with the Government’s intention
to set up the Board of Works as Mel-
bourne’s road-planning and main high-
way traffic-control authority and to
get the wherewithal from the ratepayers.
The plan to deal with Melbourne’s
traffic is thorough, imaginative, and,
above all, expensive. The bill sets up a
traffic commission of heads of the
Country Roads Board, the Board of
Works and the Police Department to
advise the Government on traffic regula-
tions and “improvements.”
I.t is the “improvements” that are
likely to cost the ratepayers so dearly.
The plan will be directed by E. F. Borrie,
an expert in the board’s towh-planning
branch who was chiefly responsible for
Melbourne’s “master-plan,” and Mr.
Borrie’s ideas in that report have not been
curtailed by any undue regard for finance.
The first problems to be handled by the
board’s experts are uniformity of traffic-
control and regulations and improve-
ments to existing road-systems, including
road-junctions. These could be achieved
at a cost that would not make ratepayers
wince; but the secondary programme of
the experts envisages controls on main
highways, new bridges and new roads.
The board’s rating-powers are confined
to the metropolitan area ; only a small
section of the highways comes within this
area. How far the commission’s respon-
sibilities will extend into the country has
not been detailed. The Government,
under the bill, also escapes financial
responsibility for the new bridges and
new roads which the commission may
build wholly at the expense of Melbourne
ratepayers.
It is elementary that all these “improve-
ments” for motorists should be paid for
substantially by the persons who will
benefit, or by the State; but what has
happened is that traffic has been so mis-
managed by so many authorities, the
Government is endeavoring to pass the
terrible infant, .springing up at an alarm-
ing rate, into the arms of what is, in
effect, another board, but one with sharp
teeth.
With rising costs in its own domain —
sewerage, drainage, water-supply and
river-improvement—the Board of Works’
rates have been creeping up in recent
years. When the traffic experts get into
their stride, it is estimated the rates may
rise from 2s. to 3s. It is a disheartening
prospect for the hands that rock the
cradle rather than the M-G. sports-
model.
Tests of Arbitration
“Stromlo”: After the Government had
refused the naive request of the A.C.T.U.
for deferment of the amending arbitra-
tion bill until it could be properly
examined (and until the Senate member-
ship changed, although this wasn’t stated)
the debate was resumed in the House of
Representatives in an atmosphere
charged by the Doc. with a lot of irrele-
vant material, ranging from the freezing
of wage-margins, the history of concilia-
tion-commissioners and the position at
the end of 1949 to the eating-habits of
workers on the Snowy scheme.
He did say something, of course, about
the punitive powers, but that was about
as near as he got to the bill. The Prime
Minister, who followed him, referred to
the days “before the leader of the Labor
party lined himself up with those who
want to destroy arbitration, root and
branch,” and then posed the three ques-
tions to which “Labor” has been unable
to give any answer.
Menzies asked whether judges of
industrial experience should comprise the
court to exercise industrial judicial power,
whether no one except an employer
should be subject to pains and penalties,
and whether no great trade-union, a party
to some arbitration proceeding, should
be liable to an injunction to restrain it
from frustrating the arbitrator’s decision,
and finally, should there be arbitrators?
Ward, who followed Menzies, made no
effort to reply, but harped mainly on the
penal provisions which he and his backers
so cordially dislike. He asserted the right
of unions and workers to strike “if they
find that' the conditions offered them in
an award are unreasonable or unfair or
unsatisfactory,” and seemed to find it an
argument in his favor that in the past
{Continued on next page)


pena , provisions had not been used
against employers or employers 1
organisations w
The fact * of course that obser .
V ance of the law has been largely on
one anc j defiance of the law has been
largely on the other side. Many Aus-
tralians believe that enforcement of the
industrial law has never been carried far
enough, and that many of the unions,
including some at the present time, have
been able to flout it with an impunity
which has penalised everyone,
The measure will be passed in the
next few days, and its working will then
be observed with the closest interest,
Some minor amendments may be found
necessary, but at least a test should be
given, fairly and without the prejudice
winch has unfortunately clouded the
Opposition’s approach in Parliament.
POINTS
Cahill has promised to give serious
consideration to establishing a reposi-
tory for historical relics in N. S. Wales.
What’s wrong with the Legislative
Council?,
• •
While Menzies is setting-out on a
world-tour in one direction Vic. Premier
Bolte is off the other way. He left for
America an Monday with the object of
attracting U.S. and British capital into
Victorian industry. At his send-off in
Melbourne Town Hall party-leaders
dropped politics for a moment or so.
Bolte said that Victoria’s present sound
position was due to past Premiers having
had the State’s interests at heart. Cain
remarked that the Premier was going
away to look for something for which
everyone had been searching for years
—“and that is money. This is not an
easy assignment.”
• •
Rumor varies as to what will happen
when Menzies comes back. Some favor
the chances of This becoming head of a
British Commonwealth Cabinet devoted
to the solution of defence and economic
problems, particularly of Asia and the
Middle East. Some . back him for
Governor-General of Australia or
Canada. As for his successor as
P.M., this appears to be (a) Casey, {b)
Holt, (c) Mcßride, (d) Spender, (e) the
also-rans. About the only man not tipped
is Dan Curtin.
e •
Victorian policemen are asking the
Chief Secretary to copyright their uni-
form. Their complaint is that Melbourne
City Council traffic-officers and even
taxi-drivers are wearing similar rig-outs.
The Jolinhops’ indignation is under-
standable, but they don’t suffer alone.
Every time an air-vice-marshal enters a
city department-store in uniform he
runs the risk of being mistaken for a lift-
commissionaire.
• •
Later counting in the Queensland elec-
tion provided some close finishes. Roma,
which in the early stages looked like
swinging ■ back to the Country party,
rallied to sitting “Labor” member Doh-
ring as late votes came in. At the week-
end he was leading by 136 and, with
less than 300 votes to come, appealed to
be home and dried. In Rockhampton
the 900 votes counted during the week
reduced the majority of Gardner
(“Labor”) over Pilbeam (Lib.) from 69
to 53. At that rate several thousand more
votes would have to come in to give
Pilbeam a chance. There’s only a hand-
ful outstanding, so Rockhampton remains
“Labor.”
Mackenzie provided the only change
of the election. On the night of the poll
Whyte (“Labor”) held a 186-vote lead
over Hewitt (C.P.). A later check
showed that 50 of Hewitt’s votes had
been wrongly credited* to Whyte, so the
lead was reduced to 86. During the
week it was gradually whittled down until
Hewitt went to the front on Friday with
2091 to Whyte’s 2075. Saturday’s count
increased his lead to 45.
• •
In a familiar piece of shadow-sparring,
“Labor” again declared last week that
it did not want to join the Foreign
Affairs Committee. External Affairs
Minister Casey moved that five Govern-
ment back-benchers —Chaney, Failes,
Turner, Wheeler and Wight—should be
appointed to the committee “until such
time as the five vacancies.... are filled
by members of the Opposition.” He
expressed regret that “Labor” still
refused to take advantage of the
opportunities of membership for improv-
ing their knowledge through receipt of
confidential information on affairs
abroad. Evatt replied that there were
differences between the Government and
the Opposition, especially on Asia. The
committee had produced no report, and
its chairman was overseas. Any informa-
tion on foreign affairs should be given to
all members of the House. He himself
obtained his information from authorita-
tive newspapers. At this, Sir Eric Harri-
son interjected “ ‘The Tribune’?”
Weather Bureau men come in for a lot
of criticism, but they’re not usually
accused of faking the forecasts to suit
their own particular interests. This
is the accusation levelled against the Bris-
bane bureau in a letter to the “Courier-
Mail.” The writer alleged that before
many fine weekends the bureau had a
habit of warning people to avoid north-
coast resorts and travel south for sun-
shine. Weather-man Newman replied
that when his bureau spoke of “north
coast” it meant districts north of Towns-
ville ; “south coast” meant the region
between Rockhampton and Coolangatta.
He denied that they had any vested
interest in what Brisbane people refer to
as the south coast.
• •
Announced in Canberra that since
the beginning of the year over 50,000
people have gone through ‘Parliament
House. Students of political mortality
NOT WANTED ON VOYAGE?
“Would you like them in your cabin, sir, or shall I put them in the hold?”
believe, however, that many members of
the House of Representatives pass
through almost as quickly—and leave as
little trace.
• •
Albert Monk, in a statement describing
the basic-wage judgment as “very dis-
appointing,” although if truth were
known it was just what he expected, said,
it was a perfect piece of timing for the
Prime Minister to issue his economic
White Paper one evening and the court to
refuse wage-justice to more than half the
wage-earners of the Commonwealth by a
decision next morning.
If any parallel at all is to be drawn
between the P.M.’s actions and those of
the Arbitration Court comment should be
made on the bad timing which introduced
a bill to give M.P.s a rise of £l2. a week
the day before the basic wage went up
10-bob.
• •
Commonsense appears to have had a
win over truculence at trammies’ stop-
work meetings in Sydney and Newcastle
on Sunday. Union officials were emphatic
before the meetings that their recommen-
dations for a strike on the one-man-bus
issue would be accepted by the rank-and-
file. It was turned-down by a four-to-one
majority, and a resolution to give the
buses a three-months’ trial (as suggested
by the Transport Department) was
adopted.
• o
“Hadrian” (Brisbane): Complaints of
tampering with electoral boundaries in
Queensland are commonplace, but a
relatively unprotested polling method at
the May 19 election was a blow at the
very cornerstone of the democratic
system —the secret ballot. A numbered
voting-slip was torn from a book (rather
like raffle-tickets) and before being handed
to the voter the number was entered
beside his name on the roll. Admittedly
the numbered corner of the slip was then
pasted back, but why the need to number
the slips? Why the need to register the
number with the voter’s name? Finally,
how substantial was the paste used to
stick the numbered corner of the slip?
The ballot on May 19 was not secret;
until the voting-slips are destroyed it will
be possible to determine for whom any
Queenslander voted.
• •
Truest words in the basic-wage judg-
ment were the comment that Australia
needs a less complex and less conflicting
wage-fixing system.
\ .
• •
J. J. Maloney, N. S. Wales Minister for
Labor and Industry, criticised the uni-
form worn by troops at the centenary
opening of Parliament. Describing it as
un-Australian, he asked, “Where was our
slouch-hat, our khaki uniform, our old
artillery outfit, our Light Horse outfit?”
Maloney is not the only one wondering
what merit the authorities see in the
bandsman - uniform now issued as
walking-out dress.
Menzies thinks the extra £6OO a year-
and other increments to Ministers and
M. is “modest.” Far different is the
view of the British Government. A
special committee proposed to add £5OO
a year to the present £lOOO, and the
Commons endorsed the idea. The
Government, after tentatively offering an
alternative £2-a-day sessional allowance,
has now made it clear that there will be
no rises ; in a time of economic crisis
they might lay Parliament’s conduct
“open to misinterpretation.”
• ' •
Whyalla shipyard launched its 27th
vessel last week when the 10,000-ton ore-
freighter Iron Spencer slid down the slip-
way into Spencer Gulf. At the launching
B.H.P. chairman D. Y. Sjrme announced
plans to build two 19,000-tonners .at
Whyalla. Bigger than anything yet built
in Australia, they’ll carry iron-ore from
Yampi Sound (W-A.) to Port Kembla.
• •
Witj? less than a fortnight to go to the
Federal A.L.P. special conference, the
N. S. Wales State executive has directed
its six delegates to support its pro-Group
policy. The piquancy of this is that four
of the six are pro-Evatt anti-Group men
and that the main business of the confer-
ence is to decide what to do with the pro-
Group State executive.
• •
One of the reasons for the wide range
of pending trade talks in London is the
strong move in portion of Western
Europe for a customs-union, which may
or may not include Britain, but will cer-
tainly confront her with some tariff- and
trade-problems. The negotiations have
been in progress for some time, and
initial announcements are likely to be
made before the end of the year. The
developments will also affect Australian
trade with the Continent. Menzies has
announced that a set of principles will be
discussed with Britain which could lead
to a new and comprehensive agreement
in place of the Ottawa Agreement. These
might solve the problems presented by
balance-of-payments problems and
import-licensing.
• •
Names of the members of the all-party
committee to examine Constitutional
problems were announced on Thursday.
The Prime Minister and the Leader of
the Opposition are ex officio members,
„ and there are 12 others. Government
members are Senator Spicer (chairman),
Senator Wright, M.H.R.s Downer,
Drummond, Hamilton and Joske. The
Opposition will be represented by
Senators McKenna and Kennelly,
M.H.R.s Calwell, Ward, Pollard and
Whitlam.
The committee has power to send for
persons, papers and records, and it may
appoint sub-committees; its main job is
to review such aspects of the working
of the Constitution as it thinks necessary
and to recommend improvements.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: In a world that seems
largely lawless it is informative to find
out that all sorts of laws look after Aus-
tralians in various parts (including the
laws of the A.C.T., which run down in
Antarctica). According to a statement
by the Attorney-General there is no pro-
vision in Commonwealth law for capital
punishment, and there is a “large body of
law” in existence in the various Common-
wealth territories. In the Northern
Territory the present law had its origin
in British law imported by the first
settlers. South Australian law applied
there when it was administered by that
State, some Commonwealth ordinances
apply to it now, and there are “local”
ordinances of the N.T. Legislative
Council. Papuan law sprang from
British, Queensland, Commonwealth and
“local” law, and in New Guinea “there
is probably quite an appreciable body of
German law still in existence.” No
wonder lawyers get rich!
• •
“Stromlo”: Small importers and other
businessmen suffering the fatal squeeze of
import-licensing may or may not be con-
soled by Trade Minister McEwen’s
admission that there are “grievances,
anomalies and what are regarded by
many as injustices” in the administration
of the licensing restrictions. McEwen
added that the problems were under
fairly constant scrutiny, and that “a
pretty thorough re-examination of the
whole administrative practice” was now
being undertaken at the official level
(whatever that is). He said the objective
was to determine “the most defensible
arrangement in the circumstances,”
representing in the greatest degree a
reflection of the public interest and sub-
stantial justice to the interested parties.
• •
Neither bankers nor Ministers have
been unduly fearful of the effect of the
loss of a Senate majority by the Govern-
ment on any contemplated banking legis-
lation, The Bate measure was an
attempt to precipitate the issue, and it
certainly had its impact in the party- and
Cabinet-rooms. A Government bill may
come later, when the economic position
is clearer, and there is evidence that the
Government can count on tne support
of the two Anti-Communist “Labor”
Senators.
' • •
There were 9,313,292 persons living in
Australia at the end of 1955, according
to the Commonwealth Statistician. In-
crease for the year was 222,897, to which
figure natural - increase . contributed
125,642 people and net immigration
97,255. At 22.57 the birthrate was
slightly higher than for the previous year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AT a radio-party: “Sydney should have
its own First Lady of Broadcasting.”
“Well, there’s always got to be a first
one, I suppose,”—“Nunk.”
* ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Young and very
attractive teenager had thrown her bonnet
over the windmill, with the more usual
result. She did not seem unduly upset.
“Oh, yes, I’ll get married, and I can be a
bride and have a reception, Mum says.”
Some time later she appeared again,
shedding a tear or two. I felt sorry for
the kid, and was quite prepared to hear
the sad story all over. So I said, “Don’t
tell me that young man’s backed out?”
“Oh, no,” quoth she, “ he’s all right.
But it was all a mistake.” Then a few
more tears, and in a wailing crescendo:
“I can only be engaged now, Mum says! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pro Patria”: Hollywood’s about to
make another Great Australian Film.
Story’s secret, or maybe not quite cooked-
up, but bullock-drays are out. Maureen
O’Hara, understandably unsatisfied with
the last effort, “Kangaroo,” will have
another fling, along with Ray Mil-
land. Maybe Miss O’Hara suggested
dropping the drays. Things were a bit
torrid on locale out Quorn way last
time.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“G.M.”: Australia’s first commercial
helicopter astonished watchers at Cam-
bridge* Airport (Tas.) by flying over the
’drome backwards. In the early days of
the last war I did the same thing in a
Tiger Moth at Narrandera (N.S.W.).
Having taken-off into a howling gale, I
found the wind upstairs even stronger,
and noticed that the old Tiger’s ground-
speed was practically nil. For a lark I
throttled-back, allowed the air-speed to
drop-off, and held it just above stalling-
mark. My air-speed was then less than
the speed of the wind into which I was
heading, and slowly I be-
gan to drift backwards
across the ’drome. When
I had passed the leeward
boundary I cut the motor
altogether and glided down
to complete a “circuit and
bump” without having
once turned.
+!+
“Em tee”: Our daily
chronicle reports Louis
(“Satchmo”) Armstrong as
opining that Princess
Margaret is a real ‘ll ip-
chick.” So hep, hep,
hurrah, as the English say.
♦:« ❖
“Metax”: Our firm
added to its many services
to its 1500 employees a
series of pay-as-you-take
cordial-bars throughout
the works, for thirst-
quenching during rest-
periods. But the scheme
was wrecked in three
weeks, the taking exceed-
ing the paying by £225.
C* * ♦>
“ Jasby ” : Complaints
are coming in from New
South Wales country
towns of the cigarette-
packet hoax. 'The story,
gets around that the
makers of a certain brand
qf cigarettes will give a wheelchair to a
crippled child (or finance a hospital-bed
or pay for treatment by an American
specialist) if someone collects 5000 (or
10,000 or 50,000, depending on who is
telling the story and where) cigarette-
packets. Youngsters and adults start
picking up discarded packets in the street,
and feel cheated when, with their collec-
tion running into thousands, they are
finally convinced that there is nothing
more substantial behind the yarn than a
warped sense of humor. The cigarette-
makers whose name is taken in vain say
they’ve been trying for two years to catch-
up with the originator. All I can say is
he’ll be pretty old by the time they find
him. He had already been at the game
a long time when he caught me, and that
was back in 1913. Before I gave up I
had enough “Cappo” packets to merit a
couple of wheelchairs, while the joint
collections of my schoolmates would have
sent a dozen cripples six times round the
world first-class. The streets in our
suburb hadn’t looked so tidy for years,
and I’ve always suspected the mayor.
“D'you Want it upstairs or not ?”
“Rimutuka”: A large crowd of ‘both
sexes clustered round the display-window
of one of Brisbane’s big stores; and with
guile and determination I edged to a front
position. And there it was-free m i s
spacious confines, softly-grey and appeal-
ing, unjewelled and unpriced—a tiny,
worried little mouse!
+ + 4
“Mugga Way”: Menzies and Senate
President McMullin were hung last week
—their official portraits by Archibald
Prize winner Ivor Hele were placed in
position in King’s Hall in Canberra. Art
critics have admired both paintings, but
lay critics feel that the Prime Minister is
"Quick, Alan , take their phone-number!”
made 'to appear as slim as maybe he will
be when he returns from his pending
strenuous world-tour.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Noel Coward is trying to sell
his stately English home, Goldenhurst,
near Aldington in the Romney Marsh
country of Kent; he is off to sunny
Bermuda. Other famous men lived in
Aldington. One was Erasmus, the
chorister of Utrecht, teacher in Paris,
professor at Cambridge, friend of Sir
Thomas More and advancer of learning.
He was at one time Rector of Aldington,
and was responsible for bringing Holbein
to England. Another famous rector of
Aldington was Thomas Linacre, tutor to
the Prince Arthur. Had that young
Prince lived there might have been no
Henry the Eighth, no Elizabeth the First,
and no Reformation. And now Noel
Coward ; well, it takes all sorts to make a
world.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: A postcard inviting sub-
scriptions for the Building Industry’s
Ball in Auckland (N.Z.) contains the
stipulation: “To reserve a cubicle, a
minimum of five tickets must be taken,
or for a couch, at least three.” What
goes on?
* ❖ ❖
“Bellfield”: Kid came into the little
“mixed” shop on the corner with a busi-
ness proposition: shoes cleaned at six-
pence a pair. Four pairs were promptly
produced. The finished articles literally
reflected credit oh his workmanship, and
the two-bob was paid over with satisfac-
tion all round. Tenpence promptly went
on crackers. The other Is. 2d. was
ploughed-back into business-expansion —
he bought another tin of boot-polish.
❖ ❖
“Bo”: A year or so back I reported
here the case of the bottle-oh who tore
down our street in a truck at 30 m.p.h.
vociferously proclaiming his profession,
and vanished, never to return. In the
interim a wedding-reception, two
Christmas-parties and two birthday-
parties have stacked a pile of glassware
against the side of the house. So it was
that joy surged in my heart when last
Saturday I beheld an old-time horse-and-
cart bottle-oh pull-up and go into Next-
door’s with a couple of fruit-cases. A
minute later he emerged empty-handed,
an d I whistled him. He looked at me with
obv j ous disapproval, but listened to my
hi cart and came back
■ f , fruit . Cases, and
y u . * ® , , , 1t T
indicated that he would be , ,
took the cases around the back and began
stacking ’em in. I was half through the
second one when he appeared, leaned
against the wall and directed operations.
Graciously he gave me a valuable tip.
always grab the bottles by their necks ana
not by the sides as I was doing, in case
of red-back spiders. I will say this For
him—he did give me a hand to carry them
to his cart and stack them on it, but his
departing: “Well, it’ll be a relief for y’
to get rid o’ them /” made it clear that
it was I who was being obliged. I sup-
pose I was lucky to get out of it without
paying a fee.
❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: In Post-office Lane, be-
side Brisbane’s G.P.0., a crowd saw the
first showing of a film entitled “Public
Enemy.” Being screened nine times a
day on a window in the lane, the film
shows the needless damage and heart-
break caused by wanton destruction, and
how the average citizen can help prevent
it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“S.M.S.”: In a fine Sydney perfor-
mance of “Twelfth Night” Malvolio’s
letter was patched-up with adhesive-tape.
I’ve often wondered what people did
without this commodity, but it now
appears they they didn’t. No doubt the
ingenious could find Shakspearian refer-
ences to it.
♦>
“Ex-Ped.”: Bill croakingly informed
the doctor that Tie had “the dogs
disease” ; and the G.P. says he is quite
right. The Greeks had a word for it the
same word as for “dog-collar” —and it s
from their equivalent of “dog-choker
that we get our word “quinsy.”
• <s+ ♦»*
“Bikhet”: A lawyer hauled before the
Beak in Port Moresby for not stopping
at an intersection clearly marked Halt
applied for a week’s adjournment, and
sweated it out. Next week he proved to
the satisfaction of the court that the
word “halt,” of German origin, was intro-
duced to the English language as a
military word-of-command. Outside this
use, he argued, it had no significance, and
he, as a civilian, N could not be expected
to recognise it. All such intersections in
the Territory now have Stop-signs.
THE BATTLE OF THE BANDITS
“N. S. Wales Registered Clubs’ Association
will fight a move by the United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association to delicense some 20
Sydney clubs which gain revenues from poker-
machines.”
“Ha!’’ says the Association of United
Pubs,
“Those one-arm bandits —they will
have to go,
Even if it means delicensing of clubs:
You pull a lever and you do your
doughr
“Ho!” says the Association of United
Clubs,
“Such virtue! But observe who’s
talking, though —
Who is it stands behind the bars of pubs
And pulls a lever while you do your
dough?”
“Hum!” says the Sucker. “It’s a war of
jerks —
What difference if with Beer or Hope I
glow?
What does it matter, if they get their
perks,
Who pulls the lever while I do my
dough?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
AS FOLLOWS
When first I learned to follow horses
’Round Sydney and suburban courses,
A sport which licks all others hollow,
I mooted not
’Twould be my lot
To follow those that merely follow.
N.S.W*
P.O.M.C.


■pXCITEMENT in literary circles of
small town, pop. 2250, when D’Arcy
Niland, of Shiralee fame, landed into the
best pub of five with officials of the J.
Arthur Rank organisation, looking for
suitable locations for the film, and also
obtaining much data on country pubs.
They should write a book! —“Emcee.”
❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: Three framed posters
side by side on the wall of a .Queensland
railway-station. The first a smiling,
“I'll have to ask you to take back this lovely hat—it's breaking up
our home.”
prosperous gent, partaking of a glass.
Next a temperance advt. depicting
alcohol in demon-form. Thirdly, head-
ache powders.
- ❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sam”: North Sydney Boys’ High
School has raided £lO,OOO for the Falcon
Memorial Playing Fields at Northbridge,
a memorial to ex-students who served in
both World Wars. The fields were re-
cently opened by the State Governor, Sir
John Northcott. There’s £2OOO still to
be raised, and the Old Fal-
conians’ Union (the school’s
old-boys association) wants a
further £BOO for war-
memorial gates to the fields.
North Sydney Council did the
work, which involved much
reclamation at the head of
Long Bay, under the Suspen-
sion Bridge. Another Sydney
high school, Homebush, has
raised more than £2OOO to-
wards a War Memorial Oval.
Strathfield Council provided
£6OOO, and is to do the work.
The Mayor of Strathfield
turned the first sod, 10/5/’56,
at Airey Park.
♦> $
“Soc.”: Charles Lamb
would seem to have com-
mitted anticipatory plagiarism
of the recent hermaphroditic
discussion here, when, writing
official India House letters, he
invariably used “Sir —and
Madam” in addressing the
firm of BensUsan and Co.
❖ *t* *** .
“Ceg”: The cleaner at a
movie-theatre tells me that
after a children’s matinee he
finds many copper coins
strewn about the floors. To-
day’s child, realising that the
purchasing-power of coppers
is almost infinitesimal, simply
tosses them away. These amount to a few
shillings after each performance—bunce
to the cleaner. Another nice little side-
line is pocket-handkerchiefs left in the
theatre. Dozens are collected each week,
carefully laundered, wrapped in cello-
phane and sold for sixpence each. There
is a good market for them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fasdean”: Sister was seeing to old
Bill Dipso, who had an X.O.S. hangover.
An orderly doing a languid chore in the
ward. The hospital grapevine buzzed.
“For Heaven’s sake, Orderly, wake up!”
fussed Sister; “Matron’s on the floor!”
It was Bill who woke. “Y’ don’t say,
Sister? Had a couple, has she? Well,
the poor old coot’ll know how bad I feel.”
“0.W.W.”: Dirt-money, danger-
money, and now “lonely-money” (B.
9/5/’56). Looking at my last pay-packet,
I marvel that no one has yet thought of
claiming “dirty-money money.”
“Griff”: Announcement by the Vic-
torian Overseas Foundation of four
scholarships valued at £350 each, with
travel and job fourjd, for apprentices,
is a step, in the right direction. Crafts-
manship has never be\en a strong point
in this land of collar-apd-tie aspirations.
♦> ♦> ■ ❖
“Cash Count”: Time, 9.15 a.m.,
Tuesday, May 15. Place, footpath outside
the head-office of the National Bank,
Collins-street, Melbourne/ Sirens scream,
cars brake to a stop, uniformed police-
men jump out, pistols drawn; other
gendarmes rush from thieir beats. Shots
“ Smoke-oh , boys!”
ring out; bang, bang, bang. Nineteen
shots in all. The invader writhes and
struggles, and finally falls dead. Police
move-on the office-boys and typists,
who’ve had their greatest thrill for many
a long day. Next problem—what to do
with the body? Is with 19 bullet-
holes in its carcass still fit for the
abattoir?
v ❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Tabba”: In discovering that school-
children prefer red pills the Danish
Health Department is years behind a boy
I knew, when it comes to tricking kids
into taking pills. He’d' been losing bags
of lollies from his desk, so one day he
loaded a box of lollies with a liberal
sprinkling of chocolate-coated laxatives
almost indistinguishable from the brown
originals. Lolly-stealing came to an
abrupt end!
♦> ❖
“Avon”: Tell “Sparks” (B. 18/4/’56)
that New Zealand shipping-reports still
record skippers. From the commanders
of the Southern Cross and Dominion
Monarch to the master of a tiny coaster,
they all get their share of type in
“arrivals and departures.” Here in
Christchurch (possibly elsewhere, too)
commanders of Tasman airliners also get
their by-lines.
>2*
“E. & 0.E.”: Too right we’ve noticed
the mournful quality of popular songs
and other musical items mentioned by
“Darzee” (B. 9/5/’56)! The radio treated
me to what I took to be a funeral-dirge.
Just about to switch it off, I noticed
something familiar about the air. What
did it remind me of? Had just tracked
it down when the announcer verified my
suspicion. Yes, it really was “Cornin’
Thro’ the Rye.”
“S.M.S.”: Well-preserved, well-
groomed, elderly, he sat down at an
empty table-for-four, carefully studied
the menu, and gave his order. Then
he drew from his pocket a small oblong
box, opened it, and took out an emery-
stone, with which he industriously
sharpened every knife on the table.
“Uramao”: Two lads of 12, deter-
mined to be the first pupils at the new
Cashmere High School in Christchurch
(N.Z.), equipped with rugs and food,
settled down at the school doors at mid-
night and were there at the opening at
nine-o’clock. They had also taken a
cricket-bat and -ball, to be first to have
a hit on the new school’s pitch.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Omar”: I was pursuing my favorite
weekend sport, rock-hopping, on a
barren, rocky and usually deserted part
of the coast not far from Sydney when
a young couple, hand-in-hand, and
obviously disappointed at my presence,
happened on the scene. They unpacked
their plastic lunch-bag, which contained
several bread-rolls, a bottle of wine, and
two fancy wine-glasses. After their meal
of bread and wine, he reclined luxuri-
ously, resting his head in her lap, enjoy-
ing the warm winter sunshine, whilst she
read to him from a book. Later, as I
moved to another position, I was forced
to pass close enough to distinguish the
title of the book, which by then lay face-
down on a rock —The Rub a'iy at of Omar
Khayyam.
“Opsimath”: Hands-off Cecil B. de
Mille, “Zorok” (B. 9/5/’56). He has
nothing on Shakspeare; and when it
comes to chronological and scientific
impossibility, not only the ancient poets
were liars. A critic has found 15 factual
errors in Masefield’s short poem
“Cargoes.” I woke up to the enormities
of poetic licence 20 years ago, when, an
admirer of Campbell’s “Hohenlinden,” I
visited the Napoleonic-war battlefield
near Munich:
On Linden when the sun was low
All bloodless lay th’ untrodden snow;
And dark as winter was the flow
Of Iser, rolling rapidly.
I found Hohenlinden village and the near-
by battlefield, but no River Iser. In fact,
it runs 30 miles away on the other side
of Munich.
* * *
“Narumee”: You’d think those super-
functional glass office-buildings, now
two-a-penny in Melbourne’s Collins-
street, would have enough window-
space for the most confirmed fresh-air
fiend. Apparently they haven’t. One
executive, allotted a superbly-appointed
but windowless office, manhandled his
desk into the corridor, shoved it against
a window and staged a sit-down strike.
In due course he needed his filing-
cabinets, so they were moved out, too,
and Were followed by a chair or two for
visitors, and an electric fire. Now he’s
glassed-in all round, his office having
been officially sanctioned by partitions.
♦+♦ ❖
“Hadrian”: Sent to interview pas-
sengers on a liner in from Japan I noticed
one nattering in an unknown tongue. I
was informed it was Russian. Minutes
later heard same passenger making vastly
different noises. I was told it was
Chinese. Then I hear him farewelling
shipboard friends in faultless English.
The passenger was a young man less than
3ft. tall who had had three candles on his
last birthday-cake ; he had been born of
a * Russian father and an Australian-
Russian mother and reared in Hong
Kong.
♦♦♦ &
F. Cadell (Edinburgh): The Scottish
Patriots —part of the National Move-
ment for retaining a Scottish Parlia-
ment with Dominion status —are appeal-
ing to each clan in turn for funds, one
month being accorded to each clan. This
month (May) is set aside for the Clan
Macßae, and already members of that
clan have subscribed £2O. The next
six months are allocated as below and
we hope that Scots who have gone
overseas will prove that they have not
forgotten or forsaken their country, and
realise how short a time we have in which
to save our nationhood. Donations to
F. Cadell, Treasurer Organisation Fund,
Whin mill Brae Colts bridge Grds., Edin-
burgh, Scotland:
Order of extraction: May, Clan Macßae;
June, Clan MacDonald; July, Clan Mac-
Phee; Aug., Clan Gunn; Sept., Clan
Macintosh; Oct., Clan Gordon.
THE PHANTOM COIN
“Witness: When I arrested accused and
charged him with having no visible means
support he said: ‘I haven’t had a steever to
over q week 5
Magistrate": A ‘steever’? Just what is that
coin ? ”
Of the meaning of a “zack”
Or a “sprat”’ there’s never lack •
Of clarity; the “bob” a “deener’ is;
You would never find a Beak
Whose slang-language was so weak
He’d not know what was meant by
“trey” or “triz”
“Half-a-caser” you can fix
Right away — that’s two-and-six ;
The “Cobar” or the “brown” one can’t
mistake.
But this I’d like to know,
Touching on colloquial dough ;
Is there a “steever” that the Mintmen
make?
Could you tender some to Bung
For your beer, would *you be slung
Out the door, or would he drop ’em in
the till? *
Would the parson be elate
At seeing “steevers” in the plate,
Or would he deem their total value
nil?
Oh, the bookies in their bags
Slam the “fiddlies” and the “flags”
And the “smackers,” but I think that
hardhead bunch
Would take the dimmest view
If, in dealing with them, you
Tried betting with some “steevers” on
your hunch.
Long I’d heard of the “razoo,”
And, between me and you,
l developed deep suspicions of its
worth.
I had never come across
One to jingle or to toss.
Of samples there appeared to be a
dearth.
Now I wonder, like the Beak,
Where the “steever” is to seek —
This form of currency indefinite.
But I’ll know such coin exists
When I hold some in my fists,
Or the g.-m. of the ’Wales accounts for
it.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Allan John Wills Hill, a director of
Heinemann’s, the English publishers, is
a Jesus (Cambridge) man. In at The
Bulletin the other day he spoke of
Steve Fairbairn, the Australian whose
association with Cambridge ahd influence
on rowing are equally famous. When
Hill was “up,” Fairbairn received a letter
from Russia informing him that the
Soviet Union intended training rowers,
and inviting him to come and coach an
elite of crews and coaches. Fairbairn
replied, saying he wasn’t able to make
the trip, but offering tuition by corres-
pondence ; with a polite inquiry as to
what prompted the invitation. The reply
cleared-up the last point: it was well
known that Mr. Fairbairn was a revo-
lutionary coach!
A pleasant story. But, Hill added, it
was interesting to note that when Russian
crews were in England recently they
used a “modified Fairbairn style” of
rowing.
Asked what he did before he went into
the publishing game, he said that, “being
young at the time,” he and another chap
had started a magazine—the “East
Anglian.” What’s more, they sold-out
at a profit, after the third issue. Then he
joined , Heinemann’s educational depart-
ment, which he now runs. In that
capacity, some interesting work has
passed through his hands, Sherwood
U.K. PUBLISHER
Taylor’s Illustrated History of Science,
for instance, and Hoyle’s Frontiers of
Astronomy. He’s also done a fair bit of
book-reviewing and writes educational
plays for the 8.8. C. (some have been put
on by the A.8.G.). He has also com-
mitted a book. Asked, who published it,
he said “Heinemann’s,” and exploded
into laughter, stamping his foot. The
gale past, he added seriously that it had
sold very well. War-service with the
R.A.F., Bomber Command, armaments
branch.
• •
“Allan B.”: Recently passed on in
Sydney, Fortesque Leo Ash was a
former Bishop of Rockhampton. At the
time of his death he was acting-Rector
of St. Anne’s, Strathfield, where he first
started in the ministry as a curate. His
life-work included some years in the
London slums, bush-service in Australia,
and an A.I.F. ' chaplaincy ; becoming
bishop in February, 1928. He left the
Rockhampton diocese in 1946 to act as
commissioner for the Australian Board
of Mission. His job was organising a
campaign, spread over five years, to
raise £lOO,OOO of new money and 50 new
missionaries to mark the board’s cen-
tenary celebrations. As a direct result,
the mission-fields have been vastly
expanded—a lasting memorial.
• •
Denis Warner, whose two Bulletin
articles on* South-East Asia aroused
wide interest last year, has been selected
as Australian Associate Nieman' Fellow,
1955-56, and sets off for the academic
year at Harvard, followed by a long
tour of the United States with his family.
Warner’s address is Toorak, Melbourne,
but he has hardly ever lived there. He
was with the War II A.I.F. in the Middle
East and the Islands, went back as war-
correspondent for Melbourne “Herald,”
and was wounded in the last days of the
war in Japanese waters. He was A.A.P.-
Reuter correspondent in Tokyo, and in
recent years has been correspondent for
Australian papers and London “Tele-
graph” in the Near East, based on Singa-
pore. He had just re-established him-
self in Toorak, to write a book, when the
award whisking him off again was
announced.
« •
Calling it a day after 31 years in the
Westralian Police Force, Detective-
Sergeant Jack Cannon, of Fremantle
C. 1.8., goes on long-service leave be-
fore retirement. In 1935 he was one
of the team that rounded-up the mur-
derers of a night-watchman during the
robbery of a Perth jewellery-store. His
case-book includes the death by stabbing
of two Maori soldiers in a riot with
American troops at Fremantle, and
several other killings at the port during
World War 11.
• •
“N.A.8.”: Retired at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) after 48 years in the shoe-trade,
W. G. Hill, well-known in Australia and
overseas as dog-expert. He has judged at
Sydney’s Royal, and also judged at New-
castle Show for many years, before join-
ing the committee and taking charge of
the dog-section.
o •
“Mid-on”: Former Victorian Sheffield
Shield cricketer Vern Nagel has ldtely
been appointed sales-manager of the
Holden division of the Melbourne firm
of Queen’s Bridge Motor and Engineering
Co. Pty., Ltd. He’s long been well
known in the Victorian motor-industry ;
in his cricketing days (he sticks to golf
now) he was in business in the same line
with his brother Lisle, who also played
cricket for Victoria. Both fast-medium
bowlers, they had an arrangement with
the selectors that only one was to be
picked in a particular Shield game, the
other to stop behind to mind the cars.
Lisle made one big splash in cricket,
when he took 8-32 for an Australian XI
against Jardine’s M.C.C. team in
November, 1932, and which linked his
name for a time with Gandhi’s. This
was the time of Gandhi’s fasts, and a
celebrated couplet had it that “Gandhi
fasted for forty days, and Nagel eight
for thirty-two.”
• ©
“A.C.T.”: New stargazer-in-chief at
Mt. Stromlo Observatory is to be Pro-
fessor Bart J. Bok, at present R. W.
Willson Professor of Astronomy at
Harvard. Dr. Bok, who will take up the
appointment early in 1957, will be both
head of the Observatory and Professor of
Astronomy in the Australian National
University a few miles away. (It is
planned to transfer the Observatory soon
to the control of the University.) Pro-
fessor Bok has also been prominent in
radio-astronomy. Dutch by birth, he
spent two years at Harvard’s station in
South Africa.
Tea with an author:
Dear to the heart of Australia’s foremost
detective-story writer Arthur William Upfield,
as to the hearts of all authors, are memories of
publishers confounded, Hutchinson’s published
his first six hooks, then turned-down Mr. Jelly’s
Business, which was thereupon put out by
Angus and Robertson in Australia and taken-up
by Doubleday’s in New York and Hamilton’s
in London, and became one of his best-sellers
and went into Penguins.
Doubleday’s kept this grim lesson in mind
until his 22nd offering, The Battling Prophet
(just out in Australia), about an Australian
weather-prophet who disagreed with Govern-
ment weather-men. They rejected the Prophet.
Heinemann’s took the book, and in 10 days
received offers from four of New York’s biggest
publishers, and promises of translations into
Dutch and German.
So Mr. Upfield sits at afternoon-tea with
his wife at Sydney Metropole, “retired” —no
more articles or short-stories, that is; only
a detective-novel every nine months —a long
way from Gosport, England, and the lad who
couldn’t pass his examinations for surveyor
because of writing Wellsian science-fiction, a
type of writing he can no longer abide. His
exasperated father sent him to Australia in
1909, aged about 19. In Adelaide he ditched his
letter of introduction and went to work on a
station out from Wilcannia. He knocked
around outback until 1914 —pushed a bike with
a load on it, he says carefully, in case you
might think he rode it: Broken Hill, Cun-
namulla, opal - gouging, gold - prospecting,
droving—then five years overseas with the 2nd
Light Horse; then back to the bush: Lake
Eyre country, across to W.A.
In 1926 he took a job as cook on Albemarle
station, 750,000 acres, because cooks have
separate quarters; taught himself cooking, and
began writing. His first novel, House of Cain,
was published in 1928; just plain thriller. Half-
way through his second, he discharged his
white detective, took on a half-caste aborigine
detective, and began again. So in The Barrakee
Mystery was born Napoleon Bonaparte, who
has sold more than 600,000 hard-covers in the
United States alone ... ... .
But not too much of all this; the
Biography: . ~ , _ ,
A smallish man with a wrinkled face, and
the meditative expression of a captive jerboa,
he has an air that is hard to place. The
mystery-writer’s air of mystery? No. It is the
mystery-writer’s anxiety. There is this
biography that is coming out, and he is anxious
that his life should retain some surprises for
its readers. Who wrote it?. Well, a “Miss
Jessica Hawke”; but she is to remain as
mysterious as Whodunit. (Though a Sydney
daily says Miss Hawke is really Mrs. Upheld
in disguise.) Heinemann’s wanted “Upheld’
in the title; what did the interviewer think of
Tracking Up field? .
Well, said the interviewer, so long as it wasn t
In the Tracks of Upfield.
The anxious face hardly relaxed. One
gathered that rather than be impressing inter-
viewers he would be back at his home at
Bermagui, where all he has to do is write a
detective-novel every nine months, act as
secretary and treasurer to the Big Game and
Anglers’ Club, garden, and paint the house.
“And cook?” the interviewer asked Mrs.
Upheld.
“Cooks very well,” said Mrs. Upheld loyally.
• •
“Cascade”: The O’Malley Millions
have vanished somewhere between Middle
Park and the Victorian Probate Office, a
few miles away in Queen-street. When
King O’Malley, a member of the first
Federal Parliament, died a few years ago
and his estate turned over at oAly £69,000,
the wise boys, who were firmly con-
vinced O’Malley had amassed a million
by shrewd investment in suburban pro-
perty and austere living, guessed he had
passed a lot of it over to his widow. Mrs.
O’Malley died in February, and her assets
tot-up to no more than £20,000. The
estate of both O’Malleys provides a
fund for scholarships for domestic-
science students. The Commonwealth
Bank runs the fund, appropriately
enough.
• •
“C.A.G.”: K. L. Ballantyne, chief of
the Meibourne firm of dairy-produce
exporters of the same name, has gone on
a six-months’ overseas milk-round, and
will yodel persuasively in Malaya,
Europe, the U.K. and the U.S.A. Main
aim is personal contact with Eastern
buyers, because he fears that Australia
is in danger of being edged-out of the
Asian market for dairy-produce. The
continued post-war rice-shortage has
boosted Malayan-Chinese butter-con-
sumption to 10 times pre-war level, and
Australia provides most of it. Again,
the Indian Government’s plan of free
milk for schools has resulted in more
processed Australian milk being used;
they mix it with buffalo-milk. In both
butter and milk, however, competition
from other countries, backed by Govern-
ment subsidies, has become very keen.
• •
Berthold Herbert Teusner, member for
Angas, succeeds Sir Robert Nicholls as
Speaker in the S.A. Assembly. A Tanunda
S.A. SPEAKER
solicitor, Teusner is 49 and has held the
Angas seat since 1944. He was Chairman
of Committees last year, and before that
was Government Whip; member of
Tanunda District Council since 1936, and
chairman since 1939. For a quarter-of-
a-century he has been on the board of
management of Immanuel College, where
(and at Adelaide University) he was
educated
On the stage of Sydney Tivoli two
lines of uniformed men are drawn
stiffly to attention; all of them are
large-framed and well-nourished, and if
any one of them stopped you in a dark
street at 1 a.m. and asked for a match
you’d maybe judge on size and
physique and light-out for the scrub, fast.
From the podium facing them a dimi-
nutive, shy-looking man —he’s just 4ft.
10|in. —leaps, then begins a furtive per-
ambulation, slow and deliberate, between
COSSACK CHOIRMASTER
the ranks, like a general critically inspec-
ting a parade. He speaks no word, and
the attention-standers continue to stare
woodenly ahead. This goes on for about
a minute, then conductor Serge Jaroff,
having surreptitiously given his Don Cos-
sack Choir the note, puts his arms at
ramrod-stiffness to the sides of his jodh-
purs, smiles apologetically at the
audience, clambers back on the podium,
lifts two forefingers, and the bunch of
giants in front of him respond with
military precision to his digital com-
mands.
Forty years ago young Serge was
apprenticed to the choirmaster of his
Don River Valley village of Kostroma.
He was a machine-gun lieutenant in the
Tsar’s Army when the Russian steam-
roller finished on the junk-heap, and to
beguile the tedium of waiting while
interned in Constantinople in 1920 he tried
some of his conducting on his fellow-
prisoners. From that malleable material
he hammered-out the famous Choir that
he has been piloting ever since. Now a
naturalised American, he lives, when not
on tour, in New Jersey.
• ©
Harry Hopman, who left Australia
recently with two promising tennis-juniors
(18-year-old Victorian Bob Mark, Aus-
tralian junior singles-champion, and year-
younger Queensland left-hander Rod
Laver), was a Davis Cup player in the
’thirties, and has developed into perhaps
the shrewdest captain-coach ever. The
Yanks reckon they would win, and hold,
the Cup easily if they had Hopman. As
it is, he’s guided teams which have won
the Davis Cup six times for Australia
(first time in 1939, last time 1955). After
he returns to Australia in September he’ll
again be in charge of the Cup team,
which should have a very good chance of
winning the challenge-round in Adelaide
in December.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 63, in Perth, W. G. Green, one of
Westralia’s best-known yachtsmen, designer ot
various types of craft, including winners of
14ft. cadet-dinghy and 16ft. skitf-classes, and
his own cruiser, Eldora. Official measurer m
W.A. for the Royal Yachting Association
(England), he was also life-member of the Royal
Perth Yacht Club, trustee of the Mounts Bay
Sailing Club, and member of the Royal Fresh-
water Bay Yacht Club. In earlier days he was
a noted cricketer and footballer.
At Launceston, at 86, Henry Reed, the
Mount Pleasant pastoralist through whose
benefactions Launceston Church Grammar
Chapel was built and St. John’s Church rebuilt.
He reached Tasmania in 1873 with his father,
who had settled there earlier, but had gone back
to England. During War I Henry Reed served
with the Red Cross in Egypt and France.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 81, Sir Alexander
Young, who was elected M.P. for Waikato w
1911, won Cabinet rank in the Coates Ministry
and retained it in the coalition Government
that followed. A native of Auckland, he was
elected to the Hamilton borough council at the
age of 23 and was mayor three times.
In London, at 49, Ernest Edmond Bailey,
former N.Z. Rhodes Scholar. A barrister and
solicitor of New Zealand Supreme Court, a
.barrister of Middle Temple, and an Oxford
Ph.D., he was deputy director-general of the
Middle East Supply Centre at Cairo in War
11, and later director-general. Since 1947 he
had been principal finance-officer of the British
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
In Melbourne, at 71, Harold JJosking.
member for more than 50 years of Williams town
football-club in the Victorian Football Associa-
tion. He was president of the club from i?-'
to 1954.


IT yooke GOING) FOR A TtZtP To THE WHY VO NT
* you first of all go fron\ SYpNsy across - country
TO ORANGE ANP WELLINGTON ANP PUB6O ANO THEN STRIKE
Sack to tamworth through gilganpra ? if you
START EARLy IN THE MORNING
UJoulVhT cT BE more /aiTEREST/nG if YOU ftRST VVQvfT on NORTH 1b
A/ARRA6RI ANP MORES An/p THEAf WENT* THROUGH TO THE NORTH COAST
V/A GLEM Z/VNES ANP GRAFT&N ? Thß NEVJ ENGLANp SCBHEfZ.y
is e&uTifuc., espfciALLy about five a.m.
I *
l think it's much nicer, to go pcwn the coast
THROUGH LUALCHA . I THINK. THE APS LEY FALLS AR.G f/
ViviuEj ESPECIALLY IAI THE EARCy morning
you DOj Pont MtSS Port* MACOuariE. , THB
COLORS in THS fZOCKS, .... PA RTICOCARLY <M
TH£ UG-MT , tf
*
/ C£iM£/V\f3£R. SffT/NG- O<JT oN fb/MT pAN&tR. W COOL-AN<SA~n~A>
JoST AS THS MOON •Rose* ABOUT AIiPMC-HT. TWfc McX7MUG«r
ON THS WfflHBR. NOFSJH ToWARPS F&RADiS£ .
(A}H&4 yoo'fzt. GETTING- NEAR. HOME
on the ujAy Sack , Pont take the main road through
Stroud: Follow the coast pouun and stop at Forster.THE
FISHING- THERE IS MAGNIFICENT", BSPBCIAIVf AT NIGHT- TIME, y
OVERSOLD


ABORIGINALITIES
A/fEMBERS of a Tasmanian municipal
•L*-*- council, going along their main
street to lunch, saw a couple of
wild-ducks swimming on a pool of water
in front of the hotel. Moving stealthily
closer to view the birds they discovered
them to be a couple of decoys, skilfully
rigged to draw their attention to the pot-
hole. It worked all right, too<—“Der-
went.”
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: When a station-owner
out of Mungindi (N.S.W.) became ill his
family chartered an Avro Anson to fly
him to Sydney. The car taking him to
the ‘drome became bogged in flood-
country, so local residents, coming to the
rescue, piled a wagon with pillows and
hitched-on a team of bullocks. Baldy,
Captain and co. got him through.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Adelaide University is
doing some valuable research into S.A.
German history, under the guidance of
Dr. Derek Van Abbe. He is getting
together a collection of historic.. gigs,
wagons, carts, etc., that were used on the
old German farms. In my own boy-
hood days the old German wagon with
sloping sides was a familiar vehicle on
Yorke Peninsula, where there were a
number of German settlers; it was
lighter in build than the more solid-
looking English outfit, and frequently
carried the family on outings. German
wagons are still in use in the Barossa
community and other parts of S.A.
* * * *
“Sackville”: Fishing at Bundeena,
Port Hacking (N.S.W.), we could hear a
dog barking in the bush behind. Suddenly
there was a commotion, a flurry of
bushes, and down to the water’s edge
raced a full-antlered buck! He plunged
in and headed straight across the inlet
towards the distant shore. Two youths
came running down to the beach,
launched a surf-ski, and set out in pur-
suit. Swimming strongly, the deer was
more than halfway across before the little
craft got far enough in front to head him
off. Once turned towards the beach
again, he swam just as determinedly. By
this time fishermen, campers and local
residents had gathered, a crowd of about
30. They—and the dog —were directly in
the buck’s path when he came plunging
up out of the water. For scarcely a
second he hesitated, then charged directly
at the group barring his escape. Per-
haps, back in the ranges, he still chuckles
over the way they fell over one another
to get out of his road.
* * * *
“Jas.”: The king of all mimics among
birds is undoubtedly the lyrebird, and I
don’t think even it achieves perfection
easily. Young Menuras have a very
limited range and indifferent artistry when
compared to their elders, and the same
seems to hold true of lesser mimics. Study
and practice, as well as talent, are just as
essential with avian as with human
artists. Moreover, I have yet to meet a
migratory or habitually nomadic fowl
which imitates its fellows, and this, seems
a point of special significance. As for
most birds being able to mimic others, I
can only say that in a wild state they
certainly don’t. My textbook mentions
less than 2\ per cent, of our avifauna as
practising mimicry, and my own observa-
tions suggest that some of these got nto
the list on mighty meagre performances.
Of course, many birds —though still a
very insignificant proportion of the total
—which never displayed any talent for
mimicry in the wild have been taught to
talk and whistle in captivity.
* * * #
“Esk D.”: Struck Tommy in the pub
late one evening, and he had a pretty fair
bait. “Giving the cows a spell tonight,
Tom?” I asked. “Well, not ’zackly a
spell,” he said. “It’s this way. I b’lieve
in leavin’ ’em go one or two nights at
the start o’ the season. Y’ see, it fills
their udders right out, stretchin’ ’em t’
hold more milk. They’ll yield all the
better then f’r rest o’ season.”
* * * *
“Erubian”: “Sister Ellell’s” surmise
(B. 2/5/’56) that “piccaninny” may not
be an Australian aboriginal term rests on
good foundations. Dictionaries define it
as Negro or West Indian, from the
Spanish meaning “a small child.” Just
who first introduced it to Australia I
don’t know, but it’s not in our aboriginal
vocabularies.- In Queensland, abo. words
for “baby” are kampala, yalo, wahgoora,
guomanoo and a few others. Kondo,
annia, kundanoo and other variations
were used for children, although round
Stradbroke and Moreton Islands one
word for “children” was “kin-kin.” An
old Botany Bay vocabulary gives chajung
for “children”; Queanbeyan (N.S.W.)
natives used the word wunja for a baby,
and along parts of the Murray the term
for “baby” was popo, children being
pinko. In Tasmania, a small child was
puggatah paw-awe, or melangyenna; an
infant was puggata riela or pugta.
Warrior Island people, in Torres Strait,
called their young offspring makekack or
kacke, although after the advent of the
“These little accidents often happen when you re learning."
white man “piccaninny” became much
used, as on the mainland. None of the
words I’ve come across seems to approxi-
mate “piccaninny,” though!
“Ex-Ped.”: “Sister Ellell’s” Italian lady
was probably using perfectly correct
Italian, piccolo nino, in reference to her
expected bambino. “Piccaninny” for a
little darky is supposed to have originated
in Cuba, from the Spanish, pequefio nino,
a small child, and white men have intro-
duced it to all parts of the world where
they have found little black babies. In
some parts of Polynesia where other pid-
gin words are not used it means pistol or
revolver: “piccaninny belong musket.”
* * * *
“D. Ex. F.”: This is just to set the
record straight about “The Gold of Billy
“Did you ever deprive him of a bone when he Was a pup ?”
Bulloo” in the “Tales of Percy Mum-
bulla” (B. 9/5/’56). According to the
old hands, Billy Bulloo really existed and
was able to make trips whenever he
pleased up the Shoalhaven River and
bring back to Numbaa (not Nowra)
good-sized nuggets of gold, which he
cashed at the inn. Naturally, many tried
to follow him, but he always outwitted
them ; since then numerous unsuccessful
attempts have been made to find Billy’s
reef. Its whereabouts is still a matter of
speculation. Nowra was not in existence
in his day, the first Shoalhaven town-
ships being Numbaa and Terrara. Severe
floods causing loss of life and property in
these two places brought about a gradual
removal to higher ground, now the town
of Nowra. '
* * * *
“Archaen”: So far from the double-
coconut . growing only in the Seychelles
Islands (B. 18/4/’56), this magnificent
palm is one of the star exhibits of nearly
every tropical botanic-garden in the
world. Double-coconuts have been
known in India for centuries. They
were washed up on the coasts, and each
one found had to be taken at once to
the nearest Rajah, as they were thought
to be a sure antidote for any form of
poison. The first French traders in India
gave the huge seeds —the biggest in the
world —the name of coco-de-mer. The
mystery of their origin was cleared-up
with the discovery of the Seychelles
some 200 years ago. The nuts take five
years to mature, not 10 as claimed by
“Papalangi” (B. 9/5/’56); and, apart
from their value as curiosities, are worth-
less commercially, for the white meat
inside them is almost as hard as ivory
and quite inedible. In the fact that the
Seychelles are the home of this palm
botanists find additional proof that the
true coconut originated in southern India
and spread thence, b$ human agency or
natural means, through most of the
world’s tropic seas.
* * * *
“Fairf”: That old home being
demolished in Phillip-street, Sydney
(B. 23/5/’56), bore testimony to the
efficiency of fire-brigades in the long ago.
At some time a patch of roof-timbers and
wooden shingles, fully a yard wide and
15ft. long, had been completely burnt
away. The gap was still there when the
roof was demolished. Evidently it was
after the fire that the whole roof was
sheeted-over with corrugated-iron, the
long-forgotten repairer merely propped-
up the burnt-off rafters and bridged the
space with the sheets. Slovenly workman-
ship indeed ; but it covered two miracles
(a) What held the roof up all those
years? ( b ) How were the firemen able to
put out a fire that had got such a hold?
There are few things so inflammable as
old shingles.
“H.C.8.”: Some old-time builders
believe that broken-glass strewn under
a floor discouraged rats, the idea being
that the rodents could not burrow without
cutting their feet. In demolishing the
historic Starkey home in Sydney’s
Phillip-street we found hundreds of
broken cordial-bottles under the ground-
floor (the initial owner, John Starkey, was
a soft-drink manufacturer whose factory
stood behind the house). One bottle
was intact, and it must be something of
a curio. With the “bottle-oh” stopper
still in its neck, it bears the following in
raised lettering: “Codd’s Patent 4
London. S. E. Rylands & Cddd, Makers,
Stairfoot, Barnsley” And on the other
side: “John Starkey, Sydney.”
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Toughest coot I ever
met,” said old Tom, “was Grisly Bill.
Big bloke, never wore a shirt, even in
mid-winter ; hair all over an’ hands that’d
sandpaper stringybark. Him an’ me’s
camped in the Mallee cuttin’ wood. It’s
June —white frost every mornin’ —but
Gris’ly jus’ strips orf the first night, lays
down on the bare ground an’ pulls ’is ol’
rug over ’im. Nex’ mornin’ he wakes-up
lookin’ liverish. ‘Have t’ shift,’ he
growls. ‘Blasted place’s full o’ fleas.’ I
says I haven’t felt any. ‘They musta
just picked on me, then,’ he rumbles.
‘ltchin’ kep’, wakin’ me orf an’ on all
night. We’ll pitch camp somewhere else.’
He lifts tlje rug to shake it an’ damme if
he ain’t bin bunkin’ fair on top of a bull-
ants’ nest.”
* * * *
\
AROUND my house, here in S.A., are
half-a-dozen acres of heath-scrub
and bluegums, all of which belong to a
score of magpies and perhaps twice as
many miners. These avian exclusionists
admit to the fraternity only the local gang
of crows, and open their territory to no
one but those seasonal tourists the swal-
lows and lorikeets. Intrusion -by any
other bird means immediate attack and
eviction by all the owners in concert,
assisted by any crows which happen to be
in smoke at the time. When the tocsin
sounded I investigated; a lone bam-owl
was bobbing and blinking high on a
bluegum-bough. Apparently my appear-
ance gave the last twang to nerves
strained taut by the infernal din, and the
owl took off, to be mobbed immediately.
He hadn’t made 100yds. before a dive-
bombing attack brought him thudding
down from 30ft. Though at first appar-
ently lifeless, he groggily and slowly
came to his senses. A day’s seclusion m
an old meat-safe perked him up so much
that he was able to greet me with the
regulation drill of threatening wings,
hissing and beak-clicking. In the late
dusk, when even the magpies had
in, I released him, and he ghosted-otf like
a great white moth, silent on his fringes
wings.—“D.R.H.”
THE IBIS
Look! And the ibis, like a drifting smoke,
hung in the sky. And there the wind, that was
their purpose, swirled, distended them, and broke
their drift above the seas of red-brown grass,
the ribbed backbones of ranges, gleaming chains
of lilied billabongs fringed with reeds and trees
and, serpentine, through swamps and plains,
the rivers moving to their different seas.
Gathering, in skeins arid skeins the ibis passed
far down the opal sky, where still I traced
their poetry, their legend out, until at last
from that oblivion it was quite effaced.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


BIG FLEET OWNER’S OWN WORDS—
“Bedfords have always given us
good, cheap, reliable service. ”
says Mr. J. E. Johnston, Managing Director,
Associated Dairies Ltd., Glen Iris, Victoria.
Letters from Bedford operators throughout Australia express the same enthus-
iasm. Put British Bedford to the test on your job ... see your Bedford dealer
for details of the Bedford range and compare Bedford with any other truck.
Feature by feature, pound for pound, British Bedford is your best business buy.
LOOK AT THE FACTS Bedford’s your best buy!
★ Three low-revving 6 cyl. O.H.V. engines
match power to payload throughout the
8 model range.
★ B.H.P. developments from 76 to 114.6;
maximum torque outputs from 168.5 to
236 lb. ft.
★ Bedford chassis frames, transmission and
suspension are engineered for each capacity
and wheelbase.
★ Bedford offers worm and sector steering,
synchromesh gears, Lockheed hydraulic
brakes.
★ A big 3-seater all-steel cab gives more driver
comfort, makes for better handling.
I MWr
\ s 7'
%m
: V:S
.
©
©
■ ’‘-"..■vs.:- ~
im
ih.
t-K
iar
•W?
S»¥
i' -
: ■ '
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
858/36R
10 CWT.
PANEL VAN
Ask your Dealer for
details of the latest
addition to the Bed-
ford range—the new
Bedford i TON VAN,
priced at £BB5 plus tax.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTORS-H OLDE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
★ G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
arrangements are available for your con-
venience. Ask your Bedford dealer.
★ Bedford is backed by a nation-wid*
service and parts organisation.
build yqvr business on
TN the days when Thomas Living-
A stone Mitchell was hacking his way
through Australia Felix there was a lot
of speculation about a river called the
Kindur. Wise guys maintained this
mighty stream drained the inland and
flowed north into the Arafura Sea. Most
explorers had its discovery in the back
of their minds when they went awander-
ing. Who started the furphy, and how
come it was called the Kindur?- “The
Groper.”
‘
* * * *
x ,
Motuku : The green frog sat on the
wall 4m. below the ceiling; the blowfly
sat on the ceiling, 4in. Irom the wall,
The frog leaped ; its front toe-pads stuck
to the ceiling for an instant while its
hind-legs swung backwards and forwards.
The eye had scarcely time to wink before
the frog was back on the wall, 4in. from
the ceiling. Perfect timing, but the blow-
fly had no time to appreciate it.
* * * *
“BillyT”: Oswald Pryor’s carrier will
really earn that “shillin’ exter” (B.
9/5/’56). As the harness lacks both
hames and traces, Cousin Jack will have
to push like hell at the back of the
wagon—otherwise the moke will walk
straight out from the shafts as soon as
he’s told to “Giddup!” • •
* * * *
r w
Guff . Six-thousand acres of Vic-
tonas richest squatter-soil once changed
hands for a couple of working-bullocks
and a single-barrelled muzzle-loader,
'nLr K ? 0r t t } Ko . ort ‘” on J lr \ th ®
Western District, then m the hands of
S rJ! are p ; f r ner * , WaS
Nicholas Cole. Before the days of free-
hold, of course.
* * * *
“B. ,A. Ker”: No longer is “It’s a
bomb” restricted to senile cars ; the word
has become synonymous with worn-out
or up-to-putty anything. My niece refers
scathingly, to my working-hat as “his
bomb hat,” and I heard a youth describe
a lass as an “old bomb.” Further, an
object can look “a bit bombie” or be a
pretty bombie affair.” But I was sur-
prised to hear our New Australian laborer
(quick to cotton on to slang or swear-
words) refer tn old “f'hnnm” ns “the
Ffier to Old CHOom as the
ombie bricklayer. The old chap being
a hrst-class tradesman, it took a while to
work that one out. The Pommy brick-
layer >
• * • *
“Aeolus”: That old-time pioneering
spirit is still a bout. j , his way t 0
o , , c :7“ “ .
with a load of perishables for
market. The Model T has seen better
da Y s i the speedo has done the full count
twice and is on its third time around.
Suddenly from its interior a frightful
®| aBhl T ng and kn °cking. With a patient
B * gh t , Jo ® founts and listens carefully
* h ® so A unds . f°™ in S fro ® unde /, the
® - A quick diagnosis, born ol long
and association, Done a big-
• ’ tde SUmf) ’ and diagnosis
18 c ° nfl ™ ed ; the reason also—a sump
PJ ac h cad y em P(Y of oil. Joe spots an
°J d b , o< * alongside the road; two pieces
Pf soiedeat her are cut and fitted to take
f® place , ° f missing bearing-metal.
Wouldn’t it!”—the gallon oil-tin is
empty. For a moment this stonkers Joe ;
then he dives among his cargo of perish-
ables and comes up with half-a-dozen
pounds of butter. Slice this up and feed
it i nt o the crankcase, a swing of the
handle and she springs into life; and so
j oe market, an hour or so latej but still
j n time,
THE SNAKE
Slender and elegant he lies
on sunlit rocks where the creek sometimes runs.
The picture flashed upon the eyes
before imagination shuns
shows his perfection: finely marked black
sheath,
a glimpse of the live coloring beneath
like clean fresh blood; glazed with blue the
tongue,
forked and flickering as he moves among
the rocks with slow and easy grace; the stare
shallowly glinting as he turns to rise;
the flowing river of him shining there . . .
Death cannot know more beautiful disguise.
N.S.W,
E. NORMAN.
Molly Morgan's Plains
T}EW women seem to figure so promin-
A ently in early New South Wales his-
particularly that of the Hunter
Valley, as the little old convict, with
stooped back, nodding head and eccentric
Speculations, Molly Morgan,
. Indeed > at one time Maitland was
known as Molly Morgan’s Plains”
sim ply because of the prominent part she
played in its early development.
Molly was born in Shropshire, Eng-
land, in 1762. She married, at 23, a wheel-
wright. and carpenter named William
Morgan, and had two children. A few
y ears later she was convicted of having
stolen some hempen worth fe *
shillings, from a bleaching-ground at
near-by Crofton, and was sentenced to
transportation to N.S.W. Her husband
was also arrested at the same time, but,
aided by friends, managed to escape.
Molly Morgan was one of 200 convicts
who left for their new home on the trans-
port Neptune ; were the conditions
on board that only 36 came through,
The Neptune arrived in Sydney in
June, 1790, and Molly was sent to Par-
ramatta, where she remained for five
years. She met her husband again there —
he having been rearrested in England and
sent out by another boat—and they were
allowed to live together,
Molly, hating life in the colony, was
"O.K., Benson — you’ve Won your bet."
able, with the help of the captain of the
ship Resolution, to smuggle back to Eng-
land in 1796 and rejoin her children.
Then, next year, she married again,
apparently regarding herself as legally
divorced from her first husband, whom
she had left behind at Parramatta. Next
scene in the story is the burning-down of
her new husband’s home, with Molly
accused of having “malignantly set fire to
it.” She escaped to London, but was
arrested there, tried and sentenced again
to transportation.
In 1809 she was once more at Par-
ramatta, per convict-ship Experiment.
Molly put on her best manners, won the
confidence of the authorities, and was
allowed to take charge of the stores —
a temptation too great, and Molly soon
found herself in a convict-settlement near
Newcastle. But, wily, resourceful, the
little woman convinced the authorities
there that she had repented of the past—
and she was allowed to marry once more,
this time to Joe Hunt.
Th&t was in 1819, and from then on
Molly and Joe became closely associated
with early Maitland. They were allotted
about 159 acres at Wallis Plains (as the
district was then known), and lived in a
hut on the spot where the Royal Hotel
now stands, opposite the Town Hall.
Molly was thus one of the first three
women to live on the site of the present
city of Maitland. She was such a person-
ality that not only was the locality known
for many years as Molly Morgan’s
Plains but her husband, Joe, was usually
referred to as Joe Morgan!
In her new capacity of landholder
Molly became an employer of convict-
labor; unlike many others who had
“risen from the ranks,” she showed great
sympathy and understanding towards
these men: she even made the l.:ng trip
to Sydney to protest to the Governor
against the harsh treatment to which
some convicts were subjected on recap-
ture after escape.
Molly is credited with having indulged
in wild drinking-bouts. She loved rum,
but was shrewd enough to recognise its
great value in bartering for additional
property. She is even credited with hav-
ing secured ownership of the present
Maitland Park through the agency of Joe
and a bottle of rum!
M. F. DIXON.


Profit now... Profit later/
• IMPORTANT EXTRAS ARE INCLUDED IN PRICE
• PROVEN RELIABILITY & MONEY-SAVING OPERATION
NT.50.32
A
khi
1 UNIVERSAL
POWERED BY KEROSENE OR DIESEL B.M.C. ENGINES
With every Nuffield Universal tractor there is an outstanding range of
standard equipment—equipment you don’t have to buy later. And
because the Nuffield tractor operates efficiently under even the most
extreme conditions, giving the maximum power output
with minimum fuel consumption, you save more money
and valuable time on every job. For every type of
specialised work there is a wide range of “approved-
after-test” matched implements expertly designed to
work with the tractor. Prove the Nuffield Universal
on your own land —arrange with your nearest Nuffield
dealer for a fact-proving demonstration, or mail the
coupon now. You’ll soon see why your first cost is
your last cost!
Kerosene models from £879 • Diesel from £1.090
IMPORTANT EXTRAS
INCLUDED IN PRICE
Head, tail and side lights,
agricultural light, electric
starter, electric horn, belt
pulley unit, drawbar and
extension, heat gauge, hour
meter, foot plates, seat
cushion, canvas cover, tacho-
meter (extra on kerosene
models), spark arrester, fire
extinguisher.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and “Approved - after - Test’’ Matched
Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS.
Place X In this square if for school project.
BMC
&
,
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
u
11 tig:
[NjiFFIELP (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., fl UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AuHR7uA)PTy"uT
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Our Deep-seated Problem
AUSTRALIA’S largest trading
bank, the ’Wales, is of the
opinion that money conditions
will get tighter as 1956 goes on,
with a particularly tight pinch
about September. For the fore-
seeable future, the bank says,
the basic trend of money-supply
seems to be towards contrac-
tion, compared with the expan-
sion which characterised the
post-war boom.
The ’Wales criticises the
Federal Government, in its anti-
inflation measures, for evading
wages issues. Wages, the ’Wales
says, are still the flash-point of
inflation, and no Government
can afford to take a neutral
attitude. Costs in industry are
still rising, and may be acceler-
ated by higher inter-State ship-
ping charges and steel prices.
Shortly after the ’Wales’s
comments were made, the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court
increased the Federal basic
wage by 10s. a week, but refused
to return to regular quarterly
cost-of-living adjustments.
This lOs.-a-week increase will
tend to bring wage-earners under
Federal awards into line with
those under State awards in
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland
and W.A., where the State basic
wage has been from 11s, to 16s.
a week above the Federal award.
In South Australia and Tas-
mania the State basic wage has
kept in line with the Federal.
(The Federal basic wage has
been “frozen” for nearly three
years.)
On Thursday of last week the
Federal Treasury issued a White
Paper on the Australian
economic position, with a fore-
word from the Prime Minister.
It warned that the current
economic difficulties are essen-
tially a phase in a continuing
and deep-seated problem, and
that when an economy like
Australia’s goes wrong there is
a big risk of its going completely
wrong.
The Prime Minister said his
Government had always been
alive to the need for a
strengthening of the base of our
domestic economy to provide
for continued economic growth.
“This,” he said, “calls for
greater productivity and output,
especially in those lines of
activity where our competitive
position is strong and through
which we can hope to improve
our balance-otf-payments posi-
tion. It calls likewise for
selective basic investment which
will contribute to this, and for
domestic saving and overseas
borrowing to support it.”
In plain language, we need
to produce more per head,
reduce costs, save more, invest
more, export more, and at the
same time it will be necessary to
import on a large scale, and
probably to raise overseas
capital to help out on our big
development plans. With increas-
ing population the country needs
much more capital and capital-
goods, both self-created and
imported.
Survey, Not Solution
/CRITICS of the indecisive
nature of the economic
survey which the Prime Minister
tabled in the House of Repre-
sentatives last week have missed
the point. When Mr. Menzies
announced last September that
such a survey would be forth*
coming (admittedly he said “in
March or April”), he stressed
that it would not announce
policies, but would present an
objective account of trends
and problems. The state-
ment last Thursday, tabled, curi-
ously enough, on the day on
which - the measure giving
members higher salaries was
introduced into the House, dealt
with the promised matters with
an objectivity which many
people have certainly found
irritating and unsatisfying.
It is possible to read into the
document encouragement or
warning, whichever is preferred.
It could be assumed that migra-
tion is going to be curbed or that
import-policy will be signifi-
cantly amended —or it could not.
The really important thing is
that this first of a promised series
of annual surveys is designed to
inform the public mind on the
multitude and magnitude of the
economic problems, for which
no Government could offer
ready-made and complete solu-
tions, and on which individuals,
by their comprehension and
their separate efforts, can con-
tribute much to the eventual
successful outcome. A deter-
mined attempt has been made to
establish in the public mind an
understanding of the relation-
ship between factors overseas
which are, largely, beyond our
control, and those at home
which can be subjected to some
degree of internal management
through Government action
within the limits of the Con-
stitution. As the Prime Minister
said, it is no easy task for any
Government to secure both
internal and external equilibrium
and yet maintain employment
and economic growth. The fact
is that up to the present the
Government has succeeded in a
great measure in this delicate
and usually thankless task. It
recognises and does not conceal
its knowledge that the position
is not a transient one, but offers
“In the Words of the testator , ‘winner takes all.’ ”
“a continuing and deep-seated
problem.”
There is no reason to believe
that our current economic
problems will right themselves
without both effort and sacrifice.
The questions are the direction
of the effort and the extent of
the sacrifice. The answers are
hinted at in the survey, with a
praiseworthy attempt to get
beyond the familiar cliches and
to explain, admittedly in general
terms, what should and must be
done. In the longer term, as the
Prime Minister said, the pros-
pects for Australian overseas
trade are good in a world of
expanding populations and
needs, but the immediate conflict
between the objective of expan-
sion for the future and the
human desire for cpnsumption
today will have to be settled in
a manner imposing the least
strain on the economy if we are
to keep our heads above a rising
tide of inflation.
Forestry Companies
TVTEW ZEALAND FOREST
PRODUCTS’ accounts,
which should be to hand
soon, are expected to show
another good profit. The ord.
div., for which shareholders have
waited 30 years, is now in sight
—“after 1957,” was the chair-
man’s last prediction. The £1
shares, which in 1949 were sell-
ing at ss. (N.Z. currency), have
moved up steadily each year and
are now not much below par.
(On Australian ’Changes they
sell at 245.)
Interest has recently been
stimulated by the appointment
of a Government officer to
Sydney to promote the use of
N.Z. timber throughout Aus-
tralia. It is hoped to secure a
substantial increase in sales of
softwoods, which already
amount to more than 37 million
super.-feet a year, of which
Forest Products provides a sub-
stantial proportion.
During the year to March 31
the company earned £1.5 million
in overseas exchange for N.Z.
by the export of chemical pulp
and sawn timber. It saved
another £4 million in exchange
by the manufacture of kraft-
paper, wallboard, multiwall bags
and fibre-containers for the
local market.
Within the next few years the
company plans to spend £8
million on plant-extension to
provide for the utilisation of the
second half of its potential
annual harvest of 1,500,000 tons
of logs. At present it is using
only 600,000 tons of logs
annually.
Tasman Pulp and Paper,
N.Z.’s newest and biggest
forestry enterprise, reports
satisfactory production of pulp
and timber. The pulp has been
accepted as the equal of the
Scandinavian product in quality,
and the sawmill, the biggest in
the Southern Hemisphere, has
already produced a million
board-feet of timber, though
only partially in operation.
On the newsprint side, how-
ever, the story is not so happy.
Mechanical and electrical break-
downs caused a loss of 30 p.c.
of the newsprint - machine’s
scheduled operating-time during
the first three months of the
year. The newsprint-mill is rated
to produce, in full operation,
75,000 tons a year. Continuous
operation began on October 31
last, and by the beginning of
April 12,000* tons had been
produced.
New Zealand newspaper-
proprietors, who had hoped that
last year’s non-delivery of 7000
tons contracted for would be
made up this year, have been told
that,instead, there will be an addi-
tional deficiency of 5000 tons.
As contracts with Canada and
the United Kingdom, which
formerly supplied all of New
Zealand’s newsprint require-
ments, were substantially cur-
tailed to provide a local market
for Tasman, newspapers are in
an awkward position. World
demand exceeds production, and
it may be no easy matter now
to obtain overseas supplies to
the extent of Tasman shortages.


With FILING CABINETS
by VICKERS-ARMSTRONGS
OF ENGLAND
SMOOTH ACTION
Free-floating, telescopic-roller
bearing suspension drawers,
ensuring smooth finger-tip filing
even with a full load.
FILING SPACE
4 drawers, each capable of
holding 234" of foolscap
material between front and
compressor plate.
FINISH
One coat of olive green stoving
enamel and one coat of
pigmented cellulose. Drawer
fronts are relieved by gold
lining. Also available in grey
finish. /
a
m
■
STOTT & UNDERWOOD LTD.
Off 252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY— BUIIB2
Please send details ot Vickers-Armstrongs Piling
Cabinets.
NAME
ADDRESS •
BULL. 30.5.5 H
The tunic with
a touch of magic
There is a touch of magic about a Stamina tunic. And look
what you get when you buy Stamina ... Extra, built-in strength.
A superb cut for high-styled smartness. A tunic that
is reversible and has an extra wide hem to give extra
years of wear. Sizes? Any size you need. Colors?
Grey, Brown, and Navy Blue. Price? A price so low
it gives you double value.
clothes _
ASK FOR
Stamina
And remember • • •
there is a secret, zip-fastened
pocket in which you will find a
free packet of those famous
WOMEN OF STAMINA cards!
SDIN/U 100HDS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5T2.113
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
ZEALAND butter
prices, which have been at
a five-year low on the United
Kingdom market, appear to have
reached rock-bottom, and can
be expected to improve.
The problem of disposal of
United States surplus supplies,
however, has not yet been
solved.
American dumping on the
Continent has been one of the
main causes of this season’s
slump in butter prices.
Substantial quantities of
Danish butter, which would
otherwise have been sold to East
and West Germany, Finland and
other countries, have, because of
American dumping, been forced
on to the U.K. market. New
Zealand has lost direct sales
to France, Czechoslovakia,
Portugal and other countries as
a result of dumping, and the
butter that would normally have
gone there has had to be
diverted to Britain. The com-
bined result has been heavy over-
supply on New Zealand’s main
market, with sharply falling
p r j ces
The chairman of the Dairy
Products Marketing Commis- ■
sion, W. Marshall, said recently
that there was little indication
the serious consequences that
dumping had for N.Z. had
been fully appreciated by the
American authorities. It is to
be hoped that official protests
which have been made in
Washington will have effect
before more grave damage has
been done to the Dominion’s
economy. If the United States
values Maoriland as an ally in
the East, it can hardly continue
to remain blind to the possible,
effects of its present policy.
The fact is that any American
disposal of surplus dairy pro-
ducts in established markets of
N.Z. or other regular exporting
countries has an immediate and
prejudicial effect on Maoriland’s
export earnings. Even so, there
could be no objection if the
competition were fair. But
dumping of surpluses at prices
well below the true cost of pro-
duction is plainly unfair. It has
been made clear that N.Z. is
not asking for favors, merely
for free and fair competition.
Over the last two or three
years low-priced American sur-
pluses have tended to flow into
every corner where opportunities
for trade exist. Not only has the
main British market been under-
mined, but New Zealand’s efforts
to extend trade to other countries
have been gravely handicapped
at a time when it is becoming
increasingly desirable that
such new markets should be
developed.
Apart from the difficulty
created by American dumping,
New Zealand is having to sur-
two other major obstacles
in ds e ff° rts to expand dairy-
outside the
L-K- The first is that in most
countlies importations of butter
and are sub J ect to some
for ™ of Government restriction
or licensing, imposed either for
balance-of-payment reasons or
£ Protect domestic producers,
The second is the lack of regular
and frequent shipping-services,
l n particular, trade with india,
dle ar ast and tbe roost Im-
portant P acidc markets is
hindered for this reason. There
1S °? e refrigerated service
to the Indian port of Calcutta,
for example but exports to other
ports of India generally have to
be transhipped through Aus-
truha, or even, on occasions,
through Britain,
Nevertheless, some progress
has been made - Sales to markets
outside the United Kingdom last
Y ear > the first year of free
marketing, amounted to 25,000
tons of butter and 6000 tons of
cheese. In the first seven
months of the current season the
corresponding figures were
19,-03 tons of butter and 3386
tons of cheese. Immediately
before the war, N.Z. sent only
about 3000 tons of butter and
negligible quantities of cheese to
markets outside Britain. The
number of markets served has
grown from twelve to 50 for
butter and 40 for cheese. Russia,
Germany and Czechoslovakia
ar i e best customers,
Capital-issues Control
Signs of restiveness under
capital - issues control have
recently been shown by several
N.Z. companies,
During 1955 the Capital Issues
Committee approved applica-
tions for new finance totalling
£12.6 million and deferred or
declined applications totalling
£7.5 million. The percentage
deferred or declined was 37,
■against 16 the previous year.
The Monetary Commission,
in its report, recommended:
That the limit on capital issues
which may be made without consent
should be raised appreciably above the
present £10,000; that the issue of
cumulative and non-redeemable pre-
ference shares should be freed from
control; that the fixing of premiums
on new issues should be left to the
discretion of the directors of the com-
panies concerned; and that permis-
sion for capital issues should not be
refused on the ground that the pro-
ceeds are to be used to reduce bank
overdrafts.
The commission also sug-
gested that control would be
more widely acceptable if the
number of State serv ants on the
committee were reduced and the
number of members representing
the business community were
increased.
There is no evidence as yet
that these recommendations
have produced any effect.
Macky, Logan, Caldwell, Ltd.,
the National Electrical and
Engineering Co., Ltd., and Mc-
Kenzies (N.Z.)‘, Ltd., are among
cos. which have recently been
refused consent to capital issues.
Macky, Logan, Caldwell has
been refused twice in the last
12 months. Both applications
were made on the advice of the
co.’s bankers and with the com-
plete approval of the directors,
who said that they were satisfied
that the modest increase in
capital that was proposed was
fully justified, was in the
interests of the company, and
did not constitute any detriment
to national finances.
The capital was needed to
comply with the bank’s require-
ments for a reduction in over-
draft, to assist in financing the
changeover from leasehold to
new freehold premises and to
provide for the normal increase
in the company’s trading opera-
tions. The co. is now in the
unhappy position of being
denied bank finance for normal
trading-expansion and yet not
being allowed to obtain the
money from its own share-
holders.
One aspect of the committee’s
procedure to which objection has
several times been taken is that
no appearance before the com-
mittee is permitted and no
reason for refusal of consent is
given:
Company Reserves
Shareholders in a number of
old-established N.Z. companies
may be agreeably surprised by
the extent of their assets when,
in the next year or two, they
receive balance-sheets drawn up
in conformity to the require-
ments of the new Companies
Act. Provision for contingencies,
depreciation and other purposes
must be shown much more
plainly than in the past.
Several cos. are already falling
into line. New Zealand News-
papers, Ltd., for instance, in its
recent balance-sheet, reveals
plant-obsolescence and stock
reserves totalling £lll,OOO and
shows general reserve £71,000 up
at £121,000 as a result of an
adjustment of the property
account to current Government
valuation.
McKenzies (N.Z.), Ltd., has
announced an internal re-
organisation eliminating the
holding co., and it is generally
expected that its new form of
accounts will reveal an improved
net asset backing for the shares.
The big insurance cos. will no
doubt have something interesting
up their sleeves.


A S
HAM
oooocxu
THIS exclusive full-floating
TRANSMISSION SAFETY DOWN-TUBE
will save every Grazier Money and Labour .. ..
This revolutionary transmission design permits the entire weight of the down-tube to be carried by the
stationary portion of the head gear, eliminating “drag.” No matter how hard the shearer pulls on the down-tube
the speed of the cutter never varies. This stops bruising of sheep (which slows wool growth) and greatly
reduces second cuts. »
The long portion of the M.V. No. 8 Full Floating Down-tube is fitted with a steel core and spring drive,
giving far more flexibility and longer life than other types of shearing down-tubes. Costly and constant
replacement of gut cores is therefore eliminated.
More and More Braziers Everywhere Are
Modernising their sheds with . . .
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
SHEARING GEAR
Whichever equipment you choose from the MOFFAT-VIRTUE
range to bring your shed right up-to-date, you will get the
advantage of Moffat-Virtue’s revolutionary and exclusive
Transmission design . . .
Get Economical Insurance
with M.V. JETTING
EQUIPMENT
High Pressure and
Low Volume are abso-
lutely necessary for
full penetration and
saturation as ac-
claimed by highest
authorities, including
experienced graziers,
veterinary research
workers and Pastoral
Departmental Officers.
These are the out- 1
standing performance
features of both the
‘Senior’ model, and
the Holier Spray
Model Moffat-Virtue
Jetting Plants.
No “hit or miss” with
these plants . . . full
protection is guaran-
teed.
The Senior Model Jetter
is the recommended
plant for large-flock
owner's, and will ope-
rate two 5 jet nozzles
simultaneously at high
pressure.
The Holler Spray Model
Jetter is a portable
utility plant suitable
for medium and small
flock owners, to ope-
rate two 3-jet nozzles
simultaneously at high
pressure.
SSSWiK
Let our Representative
explain the advantages of
installing, or converting
to, the latest M.V. Gear.
/
s.
M.V. Ball-
Bearing OVER-
HEAD GEAR.
M.V,
‘SHEABLINE’
1 or 2 Stand
Portable Shear-
ing Plants.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE ELECTRIC
SHEARING GEAR.
The only Electric Shearing Gear
with the full floating No. 8 Steel-
Core Transmission Downtube.
Friction-wheel Drive. Ball-hearing
Cone-pulley Assembly. Ratchet
Transmission Control. Heavy Duty
1/3 h.p. Thrust Ball-bearing Elec-
tric Motor. Especially designed for
those fortunate enough to have
electricity on their property.
Change to the modern shearing
method, by installing or convert-
ing to the latest Moffat-Virtue
Electric Gear.
Moffat-Virtue
OVERHEAD GEAR.
Has the perfect Cone Pulley
Assembly . . . _ (Balanced radial
load on ball races ... no grease
above leather cone . . . bearings
completely sealed against dirt and
dust. The whole machine is of
solid construction, designed for a
long, trouble-free life. It will pay
you to get the facts about installa-
tion, or conversion to this revolu-
tionary new shearing gear.
“SHEARLINE” SHEARING
AND CRUTCHING PLANT .. .
Whatever the size of your property
you can start saving time, money
and labour NOW with this NEW
portable plant . . . SHEARLINE
has all the features necessaby for
easy, full-speed shearing or crutch-
ing anywhere on your property . . .
And the components are all con-
veniently arranged for compact-
ness, accessibility and easy opera-
tion.
M.V. Electric
Shearing Gear.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
HEAD OFFICE & FACTORY:
EPSOM ROAD, ROSEBERY, SYDHEY, N.S.W.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland: Moffat-Virtue
(Q’ld.) Pty. Ltd., Bris-
bane, Q’ld.
Southern Q’land: Dalgety
and Go. Ltd., Brisbane,
Q’ld.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Vic.
South Australia: Elder,
Smith & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide, S.A. Stock-
owners’ Shearing Ltd.,
Adelaide, S.A.j
Western Australia: Elder,
Smith & Co. Ltd., Perth,
W.A.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby &
Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart &
Launceston, Tas.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
P.O. BOX 52, Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward full particulars of the following MOFFAT-
VIRTUE Equipment: Overhead Gear, Electric Gear, “Shear-
line,” SeniQr Jetter, and Roller-Spray Jetter.
NAME
ADDRESS
#


Sheep and Wool
A National Event
Sydney Sheep Show
By ANTHONY HORDERN, Snr.
ppqgni|jOß over half-a-century the N.S.W. Sheep-
KL/ji breeders’ Association has been holding its
sheep-shows, with one main object in
mind: the improvement of the sheep,
whether for its wool, its carcass, or both.
The association’s first Show was
held on July 1, 1895, in the Pyrmont wool-store of
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. Earlier shows had been
staged by the Australian Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion, but no authentic records are available.
The 1895 Show, which was attended by many
leading pastoralists and was officially opened by
the Lieut.-Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, was held
at a time when sheepbreeders were engaged in
controversy over the introduction of the American
Vermont-strain into Australian studs.
Sheep of this type dominated the Show, and
Sir Samuel McCaughey, who had spent a consider-
able sum on introducing Vermont stock, exhibited
the two grand-champions, as well as taking five
championships and 12 first-prizes. His success
provided the answer to those who were condemning
the imported strain.
Next year the Sheep Show was transferred to
the R.A.S. Showground at Moore . Park, and,
although the Vermont-strain was still strongly in
evidence, the grand-championship went to a Tas-
manian three-year-old ram, bred by Mr. John
Taylor, of Winton. Nevertheless, this ram displayed
many folds and wrinkles similar to those of the
Vermont.
Despite severe drought in eastern Australia in
1897, breeders still supported the Show, though on
a reduced scale. The quality, on the other hand, was
higher and a prophecy was made thaJ soon
Australia would become independent of importa-
tions. This has come true. Australia is now the
world’s leading nation in the production of Merino
sheep.
At this period breeders here were striving hard
for supremacy, and a healthy rivalry had developed
between N. S. Wales, and Tasmania. This was the
time, too, when advocates of plain-bodied types of
sheep were losing ground; wrinkles, and plenty of
them, were the coming fashion.
It was not until 1906 that the swing towards
the plain-bodied became evident. Moving on 20
years, Merino classes in the 1927 Show displayed a
strong tendency towards a higher-quality wool with
more density and more character; plain bodies and
massive frames were very much in evidence among
the exhibits.
With a new high in Merino' entries the next
year, the grand-champion Merino ram sold at
5000gns.
A new trophy, destined to become the blue-
riband of the Sheep Show, was introduced in 1930.
This was the Stonehaven Cup, named after its donor,
Lord Stonehaven, then Governor-General of Aus-
tralia. The Cup is held in perpetuity by the associa-
tion, the winner having his name engraved on it
and receiving a replica. It is given for the best
exhibit of five Merino sheep, three rams and two
ewes, of any age, bred by the exhibitor and from
one stud. Selected from exhibits in the general
classes, they are judged with due regard to type
and uniformity, although they need not have the
same strength of wool. This trophy provides a great
test of breeding-skill, as it is far more difficult to
secure five outstanding Merinos than a single
animal.
Two milestones in the progress of the associa-
tion were erected in 1938.
One was the introduction of shearing-
regulations for Merinos and Corriedales. This regu-
lation requires that sheep be shorn to a uniform
length of half-an-inch, and so are placed on an even
basis for wool-judging. Except in. 1946, when war-
time conditions prevented the inspections being
made, this regulation has been adhered to.
Today nearly 8000 Merinos and Corriedales
are inspected annually, not only for show purposes,
but for stud-sale advantages.
The other major event of 1938 was the transfer
of the stud-ram sales from the woolstores to the
Showground, where they are now held in conjunc-
tion with the Sheep Show, to provide an outstanding
display of the world’s best sheep. What a striking
success this move has been for all stud-breeders!
Breeders come from all over Australia to make
their selections at this central buying-point. It was
at last year’s sales that a new world auction-record
of 6000gns. was established for a Merino ram.
To mark the Australian Jubilee Celebrations,
the 1951 Sheep Show carried a number of special
prizes donated by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. They were awarded for the grand-champion
rams and ewes of each breed. With the response
from many of the leading studs an all-time record
of Merino entries, 660, was received.
In 1951 the general appeal of the Show was
widened by the inclusion of a wool-display and
mannequin-parades of woollen clothing, which have
now become popular features of the Show.
With the post-war boom in wool-prices, the
fat-lamb industry’s representation at the Show
shrank in importance, but with the stabilising of
wool at lower levels and the increasing value of
lamb-production the section devoted to British
breeds has been expanding over the last few years.
Dorset Horn entries, for instance, were last
year at a new record of 137, while for the past four
years interest has extended to cover all British
breeds.
One section which has grown considerably
since its introduction about 30 years ago is that for
small graziers, those breeders with flocks under
3000. In 1954 entries reached 125.
This year’s Show will be the 57th conducted
by the association, which feels that it has made a
considerable contribution through this medium
towards the establishment of the Australian
Merino’s pre-eminent position.
Year by year, too, the Sydney Sheep Show is
growing in appeal, not only to the breeder but to
the general public. Among the many features to
be seen today are the sheep-dog trials, where the
wonderful intelligence of the animals and the
training by the owners can be appreciated in quiet
relaxation as they shepherd a pair of sheep over a
five-acre course including a bridge, race and pen.
The trials serve to focus public attention also on
the vital part these small animals play in bringing
in the clip, the country’s most important export and
chief source of national wealth. In fact, without
(Continued on page 36)
The Contributors
CONTRIBUTORS (other than staff-writers) to
this year’s Sheep and Wool issue include: —
DAVID M. ARCHER, president of Queensland
Stud Merino Sheepbreeders’ Association.
RAY BLADWELL, businessman and grazier.
“A. BREEDER,” a leading S.A. Merino stud-breeder.
SANDFORD BEGGS, Councillor of the Victoria
Stud Merino Sheepbreeders’ Association; presi-
dent, 1951-54.
Dr. H. G. BELSCHNER, author of “Sheep Manage-
ment and Diseases,” and research-worker of
international standing.
CAROLINE COLE, Australian fashion-expert.
A. S. DUNSTAN, Chairman of Sydney Woolselling
Brokers’ Association.
R. D. EASTOE, N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture expert,
who judges the Polwarths at this year’s Sydney
Sheep Show.
JOHN FOSTER, who organised the Tasmanian
Finewool Merino Sheepbreeders’ Association,
and has been either president or vice-president
ever since.
HUGH GORDON, world authority on internal (
parasites of sheep.
ANTHONY HORDERN, Snr., president of the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association.
J. JORDAN, manager of Auchmore, a 17,500-acre
medium-Merino-breeding property on the dry
plains north of Bendigo (Vic.).
H. R. LOMAX, president of the Border Leicester
Sheepbreeders’ Association of N.S.W.
B. W. A. McGEOCH, president, N.S.W. branch,
Australian Corriedale Association.
SIR WALTER MERRIMAN, of Merryville Merino
stud (N.S.W.).
H. G. OSBORNE, chief lecturer in veterinary
medicine, Queensland Veterinary School.
JAMES ROBINSON, president of the N.S.W.
Romney Marsh Breeders’ Association.
E. TELFORD SIMPSON, president of the South-
down Stud Breeders’ N.S.W. Association.
G. R. M. SMITH, president of the Dorset Horn
Stud Breeders’ Association of N.S.W.
F. C. STONE, stud-stock manager for Westralian
Farmers’ Co-operative Limited.


Stand up and shear!., with the
SHARING TABLE
I
W**P^
; ■
■H
; , ;
lllf
vX;X%
: : -'
mmi
■ :
I®
mm
iiitiili
mmm
m
. • +
?-iskvw::s>
tms
g*p
pill
flfl
IT’S HERE!
THE MOST
IMPORTANT
ADVANCE IN
SHEARING
TICHNIQUI
SINCE THE
ADVENT OF
THE E.B
HANDPIECE!
BORTHWICK • PATENT PENDING
Sunbeam Corporation are proud to announce the release of
the most important mechanical contribution to the Shearer
and the Shearing Industry for the last century . . . .
COOPER SHEARING TABLE.
Now there is no more back-breaking bending double to
the floor, no wasting effort in HOLDING sheep . . .
COOPER SHEARING TABLE allows you to stand
up to shear; holds any size, any weight, sheep firmly in
the right position for easy shearing.
m
wmmmmmmmmz
■
: :: >
m-
m
«.&
A
f
m
:
w:j?x
m
1
A \
,'A Z-
.U-ILt-
* * \
{v W-' X
ii'.'V
I *\>4
! »-/
-5 t
», ./•
cri^;
-/".A
>
■r.-U
i>,"
■4
Skilled Shearers, particularly, will welcome the
introduction of the COOPER SHEARING TABLE.
Apart from the obvious saving in labour and effort, it
writes finish to the physical strain that has always dogged
the Shearer. No more dreading the breaking-in period
4
of that first week back on the Board.
The COOPER SHEARING TABLE is ideal for all
properties, small and large .... no structural alterations
are required to existing sheds and installation is simple.
Contact your nearest COOPER AGENT
or Write direct to Sunbeam Corporation for
further details.
The SHEARING TABLE is designed for easy and simple erection. No special equipment is required—it is ready for immediate assembly
in your shed. Revolutionary features allow complete freedom of movement to the shearer; all attention and effort is concentrated wholly on
shearing and nothing else. The holding arms feature a spring-loaded quick-release control and trigger guard for firm, harmless holding o
the sheep’s legs; a counter-bafenced holding device allows the sheep to be effortlessly rolled into various shearing positiorts; holding arms are
quickly, easily adjustable to hold any size sheep without strain.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
SmScairi
CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE


from First Beginnings
Putting Wool on the Sheep’s Back
By M. H. ELLIS
ONE of the most remark-
able feats performed by
Australians has been in
the improvement in the
yield per sheep of Australian
wool.
The increase has persisted
through good times and bad
from the earliest days, through
drought, disaster and disease,
through periods of slackness and
boom, and through times when
prices have remained low for
years.
It has been more-or-less
uniform through all the sheep
At the beginning early Australian Merino-type sheep.
areas. It has not been mainly
the work of one man (as so
often happens in such matters),
but of many. And it is still
going on ; in fact, it has to go on
to meet the changing nature of
fashion and demand and the
rising cost of production.
The first sheep in Australia
were not, of course, wool-sheep.
They were hairy Bengals of the
Cape of Good Hope breed,
which in some cases towards the
end of the first decade of settle-
ment, were mixed with odd Eng-
lish and Irish imports that came
into the colony with officers or
civil servants of an agricultural
turn of mind.
The first introduction of
Merino blood came in 1797, in
H.M.S. Reliance, brought by
Captain Waterhouse, R.N., and
these were distributed to a
number of people. All the evi-
dence suggests that they were
not Spanish Merino, but a large-
bodied Dutch Merino or
Merino-cross. That their owner
at the Cape of Good Hope,
Colonel Gordon, was a Hol-
lander makes this the more
probable. They were locally,
however, termed “Spanish.”
The men who cherished them
most were Macarthur and
William Cox (who succeeded
Macarthur as Paymaster of the
N. S. Wales Corps). Cox pur-
chased Waterhouse’s own bred-
up flock. Neither appears to
have seen at that stage anything
of what the future of sheep here
would be.
When Macarthur offered to
sell all his sheep to the Govern-
ment in 1800 he described his
flock thus:
Six-hundred sheep, several of which
are Spanish, and most of the flock
of that breed.
When forwarding the offer of
sale to England, Governor King
dwelt in a dispatch on the need
to establish the making of
woollen cloth in the colony, and
described its sheep as they were
in September, 1800:
the introduction of a breed of
Spanish sheep into the flocks of
individuals has so much improved the
fleeces that there is a promising
appearance of a great quantity of
wool being produced in a few years
....But I am sorry to say, from the
wretched state in which the animals
belonging to the Government are in,
that it will be some time before any
advantage of that kind [i.e., the
manufacture of cloth] can b'e obtained
from them, as they are mostly of the
Cape breed whose covering is hair.
A year later he reported that
a great proportion of the
colonial sheep were showing the
results of attempts by some
owners to improve the Bengal
hair into wool by the use of
Spanish blood, and stated that
in the previous year enough had
been secured to make 306yds. of
blanketing.
A year later on, King was
certain that, due to improvement
from the Spanish blood, the
colony’s flocks “will in the
course of a few years produce
sufficient wool to clothe the
inhabitants.”
The first indication of the
wool-carrying capacity of Aus-
tralian sheep comes from the
examination of fleeces sent home
by King from Macarthur’s
flocks to promote the sale of that
dispirited officer’s sheep. In the
discussion of this it appeared
that the average of Macaxthur’s
stud-flock was round about 21b.
4oz. per sheep.
The Rev. Samuel MadTden,
another breeder, in some
observations on his own flocks
in 1804, mentioned a ram —“the
produce of a Spanish ram and a
coarse-woolled ewe” —which he
had shorn three times, cutting
successively 31b., 41b. 120 z., and
61b.
Marsden was a dual-purpose
man: he declared that the “real
Spanish sheep,” as far as his
observation went, were not so
hardy in their constitution nor
weighty in their carcass.
“Whether their fleece will be
considered of superior quality
or no,” he wrote, “I am unable
to determine. Every generation
improves in the weight of the
fleece and the quality of the
wool.” But he thought it was
“yet too early to calculate how
long they would continue to*
improve the weight of the fleece
and to what degree the fineness
of the wool might be brought
with care and attention.”
About this stage conflict
developed between the two
sections, one all for fine wool —
of which the only clearcut sup-
porter at that moment was John
Macarthur, who returned from
England in June, 1805, with his
grants of Camden Park lands
and his stud-sheep from the
Royal stud at Kew —and the
Marsden school, which believed
that for a long time to come
wool - production should be
merely incidental to mutton-
production to feed a hungry
colony.
Macarthur the* Pioneer
Macarthur brought back with
him from England the first
demonstrably pure Merinos seen
in Australia. These, from the
Royal stud, exhibited about the
best that could be done in
fleece-weights at the period.
The heaviest-cutting ram offered
at the King’s sale in August,
1804 (at which Macarthur’s
sheep were bought), was a four-
tooth animal, its fleece-weight
81b. Macarthur bought a four-
tooth ram cutting 71b. 2oz. for
27gns. The average of the offer-
ing was in .the 3-4£lb. range.
A few months after Macarthur
landed with most of his pur-
chases King summed-up the
situation anew:
That all [colonists] have and are
aiming to get half- or whole-bred
Spanish rams, South Down, or other
English or Irish rams into their flocks,
is sufficiently obvious, and what is
now wanting to the general perfection
of the finest Spanish wool I have no
Today—the champion medium-wool ram and grand champion Merino ram at last
year’s Sydney Sheep Show.
little doubt may be accomplished
without the intervention of authority
in a few years, which may be hastened
when the advantages of rearing
Spanish sheep in preference to other
kinds is more generally known and
adopted and individuals are con-
vinced that weight of mutton and
fineness of wool are not incompatible
with each other.
Although apprehension that
the Spanish sheep were not
so hardy had no doubt a
slowing-up effect on fine-wool
production, it also resulted in
spreading throughout the colony
a sturdy base of English, Scot-
tish and Irish crosses, big-
bodied and good foragers, and
hardened by the blood of the
almost indestructible Bengals in
earlier ancestry.
The existence of these basic
sheep was to have its effect on
the general size and wool-
carrying capacity of the Austra-
lian breed in later years.. The
Merino, when imposed on them,
soon fined-down their wool.
When the fine-wool rams did
begin to cover colonial ewes that
had a long ancestry dating back
to Bengal and English sheep
they had a solid foundation with
broad backs and hardy constitu-
tions to work on.
During the first 20 years of
the establishment of the indus-
try the Macarthurs were the
masters of the craft, and the only
flock-masters who were breed-
ing for improvement and heavier
fleeces in limited flocks.
Keeping their numbers as near
the 5000-mark as possible during
the years 1810-1821, and also
keeping careful records, they
concentrated on soaking the
fine-woolled Spanish blood into
their flocks until tsey were all
bred-up closely to Merino-type
as to wool, though not always as
to body.
They culled heavily, but, start-
ing from scratch, they did not
achieve any sensational fleece-
figures.
Commissioner Bigge reported
in 1821—when the Camden
Park flocks were certainly the
choicest in the country —that
Macarthur had only 300 pure
Merinos in a total of 6800 sheep.
Also, that the “breed that is
general in the Colony may be
considered to be an admixture
of that of the Cape of Good
Hope and the improved
English.”
He wrote that the average
carcass-weight of the Macarthur
sheep when they were in good
condition was 651 b., and they
had been known to attain 701 b.
And the average fleece through-
out all Macarthur’s flocks in
1820 had been 21b. 7oz.
The great sale of 1821, at
which Macarthur’s fleeces topped
the market in London, estab-
lished fine-wool as a prime
article of commerce in
N. S. Wales. Also, it started a
boom, with competition in stud-
improvement and fleece-weight
improvement which had not
been there before, except on a
very limited scale.
There had been substantial
changes in the sources of British
wool-supply since the advent of
the new century. The pure
Spanish Merino was waning in
popularity. By 1833 Australia
was sending England more wool
than Spain. The Silesian and
Saxon breeders, with their
greater thoroughness, their
hard-working German wool-
husbandry, were the biggest
factors in the London market.
It was their methods and their
sheep which the Australians
studied.
The Macarthurs confined
themselves to study of the Ger-
mans’ wool-preparation for sale
and husbandry. They kept their
own sheep to the “Spanish”
Merino type, with no introduc-
tions of German blood until the
whole of the Camden stud-
flocks were disposed of in
1846-50.
Most of the other breeders
turned to the Germans for rams,
on the theory that to compete
with Saxon-type wool it was
necessary to have Saxon-type
Merinos.
The Saxon Stud's
In the beginnings of commer-
cial wool, Edward Riley and his
brother (Raby) were the first
real breeding-rivals of
Macarthur (William Cox fol-
lowed his lines). Riley first
exported wool taken from sheep
devoid of Spanish blood in
1812-13. After 1820 he began
as pioneer introducer of German
blood, which came from the
flock of the Elector of Saxony.
After the Raby example, the
1820’s saw many Saxon flocks
founded in N. S. Wales which
lived the century out, and more.
Lue, formed by James Walker
in 1823 near Mudgee, was one.
It had a base of Royal Merinos,
joined with Raby Saxons. When
Vincent Dowling came to own
it in the ’seventies he threw in
some old E. K. Cox blood from
Rawdon.
The Cox families were indeed
the great improvers over about
a quarter of a century or more,
(Continued tm page 46)


How It's Done
Breeding
Stud Merinos
By
SIR WALTER MERRIMAN
MY father, the late George
Merriman (Sn r.),
founded the Ravens-
worth stud, in the Yass
(N.S.W.) district, about 1865.
Only pure Saxon and Silesian
blood was used in this stud until
his death in 1915, when the stud
was divided between his three
sons.
Merryville stud —which was
formerly a portion of the
original Ravensworth stud, and
started in a small way in 1903 —
was founded on some of the
purest and best Merino blood in
Australia. It derives from the
first importation of Spanish
Merinos by Captain Waterhouse,
and from early importations of
Silesian and Saxon Merinos by
J. B. Bettington, of Brindley
Park, through the Mudgee studs
Birangambil and Cullenbone,
and such Tasmanian studs as
“Conformation and covering”—QUEEN OF HEARTS,
one of The Joker family, was champion fine-wool ewe
and grand-champion Merino ewe at last year’s Sydney
Sheep Show.
Winton, Glasslough, Bellevue
and Esk Vale.
My father was a really good
sheepman. He established a
small, but high-class, Merino
stud, chiefly to breed his own
rams for. his flock of about
10,000 sheep. On several occa-
sions he made the State-record
price for his Ravensworth clip.
The stud won many prizes,
particularly in shearing-test and
scouring-test competitions, in-
cluding the lOOgns. shearing-test
prize at the Sydney Sheep Show
in 1901.
This prize was for two ewes
under 18-months, to be shorn
under the supervision of the
committee, marked and returned
to owners, and shorn again in
12 months’ time. Their fleeces
were then taken and valued in
the grease. The Ravensworth
ewes had an easy win, and
although under two-years when
shorn the second time, they cut
an average of 151 b.
They were machine-shorn each
year.
Two pens of three ewes each
from Ravensworth competed in
the Wagga £5O scouring-test
competition in 1905-06 and won
first-prize and third-prize. The
heaviest pen cut an average of
181 b. 3|oz., and the other pen
cut an average of 151 b. s\oz. in
the grease. When the six fleeces
were scoured they averaged 81b.
2foz.
The ewes were under two-
years when shorn the second
time. There were seven pens
competing, and they were all
grazed together in the same
paddock at .Widgiewa station,
Narrandera, under the super-
vision of the Wagga Show sheep-
committee. These sheep were
totally unhoused and were grass-
fed for the 12 months they were
under test. The Ravensworth
No. 1 pen of ewes cut 21b. per
sheep more than the next-
heaviest pen in the competition.
Two of the great sires used in
the Ravensworth stud were
Density, purchased from J. D.
Cox, of Cullenbone, Mudgee, in
1895, and The Joker, purchased
from the Glasslough stud (Tas.)
in 1903.
These two rams really put the
Ravensworth stud on the map.
Density sired the two ewes that
won the shearing-test at the
Sydney Sheep Show, and The
Joker sired the two pens of ewes
that won first-prize and third-
prize in the Wagga scouring-test
competition. Both of these rams
produced many good top-sires.
The Merryville stud was
started in a small way in 1903
with the purchase of a number
of cast-for-age special-stud ewes.
I also received a gift of 10
Ravensworth special-stud ewes
from my father. These ewes,
and the ones I had bought, were
joined to sons of Density and
some were joined to The Joker.
In 1905 I bought Mountain
King, sired by The Joker. He
was out of a ewe by Density.
In 1905 I entered him and also
a hogget-ewe I had bred by The
Joker in the open class at the
Yass Show and won two first-
prizes with them.
Mountain King was shown at
10 different shows in subsequent
years, in the plain-bodied class,
and was never defeated. He cut
an average of 21\Yo. of wool
four years in succession and
proved a wonderful sire. He was
the ram that really laid the
foundation of the Merryville
stud. His fleece was of about
70’s spinning-quality and very
bright. He grew a 4in. staple
and was a big sheep with a good
front, perfectly plain-bodied,
with a good open face.
When I started my stud the
Vermont craze was at its peak,
and it was heavy going to win
favor with the plain-bodied type.
However, I was not discouraged.
I had a very clear picture in my
mind of the class of sheep I
wished to breed. I wrote several
letters to the press pointing out
the folly of breeding such
wrinkly sheep with so many
detrimental features in their
make-up as the Vermont sheep
had, and forecast they would
soon lose favor. This forecast
was fulfilled, but not before
the importations had ruined
many notable Australian studs.
My father gave me 400 acres
of land, on which I built a
stone house of eight rooms in
1905. That was my start in life
on my own. But I had a wealth
of experience with my father on
Ravensworth, and learned to do
everything on the place. When-
ever possible, I was with the
stud-sheep ; I knew practically
all of them individually. So I
was well equipped to manage
my own stud when the time
came.
My father gave my late
brother George and me our
portion of the Ravensworth
property—about 3000 acres —on
lease in 1911, for which we
paid him rent, but he retained
my younger brother’s portion
of Ravensworth, and also the
stud, until he died in 1915. The
stud-sheep were then divided in
accordance with his will. I re-
ceived one-fourth of the rams
and stud-ewes, but I exchanged
most of my share of rams for
my younger brother’s ewe-
weaners. As he was short of
rams to use in his stud and
flock, and I had sufficient rams
on hand which .1 had bred myself
for my own use, it suited me to
make the exchange.
In 1911 I had selected a line
of special medium-wool stud-'
ewes from my own stud for the
purpose of establishing a top-
stud medium-wool section of my
Merryville stud. At the Sydney
ram-sales that year I bought the
Wanganella special exhibition
stud-ram Snowball for 410gns.
(top price of the sales that year),
and joined him with the above-
mentioned ewes, with excellent
results.
Snowball was a big, bright-
wool sheep of medium-strong
quality, with a splendid set of
horns and head. He grew a
very deep staple, with plenty of
body in it, and of a high yield.
The next and last purchase I
made for the Merryville stud was
the Wanganella Estate exhibition
special-stud ram Sir Francis, by
that grand old Wanganella
Estate sire Majestic. He was
joined with the progeny of
Snowball and with other Merry-
ville ewes selected to suit him.
The result was very satisfac-
tory. Sir Francis, through one
of his progeny in particular—
Brilliant No. 10—was chiefly
instrumental (together with the
Merryville-blood ewes) in fixing
the Merryville medium-wool
type.
Brilliant No. 10 was out of a
Merryville ewe of the Brilliant
family. He was not at all like his
sire, being much denser, with
better-quality wool of the
Merryville-type, and his belly-
wool and covering were excel-
lent. He was three times grand-
champion at the Yass Show
(against stiff competition),, which
stands as a record only equalled
by one of his sons, Merryville
No. 1.
Merryville No. 1 was
champion fine-wool ram and
reserve grand-champion at Syd-
ney Sheep Show in 1926, and in
1928, when seven years old, he
won the fine-wool championship
at Sydney again.
Both these rams were bold,
fine-wool sheep, between a 66’s
and 70’s quality, but they sired
many beautiful medium-wool
sheep. From the progeny of
Merryville No. 1 I established
many families, some of the best-
known being the Uniform,
Snowy and Builder families.
Two of his progeny, Uniform
and Wonder Queen, won both
grand-championships at Sydney
Sheep Show in 1930, giving me
my first double grand-champion-
ship at the Sydney Sheep Show.
Merryville No. 1 sired Lady
Lorna, a magnificent ewe, who
was three times grand-champion
at the Sydney Sheep Show: a
record that has never been
equalled.
Merryville No. 1 sired Snowy,
who sired many good sheep, in-
eluding Snowflake, champion
fine-wool ram and reserve grand-
champion at Sydney Sheep Show
in 1934 ; Architect, reserve
medium-wool champion at Mel-
bourne in the same year; and
Eclipse, medium champion at
Melbourne in 1934. These three
rams, with the grand-champion
ewe, Lady Lorna (half-sister to
Snowy), and the reserve grand-
champion ewe, Merryville
Queen, won the Stonehaven Cup
in 1934. He also sired Merry-
ville Everest, winner of seven
grand-championships in 1937.
Another sire by Snowy was
Star Snowy. This ram sired
many grand-champions, includ-
ing the evye Snow Star, grand-
champion ewe at Sydney Sheep
Show in 1938 and 1939, and
whose fleece was the grand-
champion ewe’s fleece at Sydney
in 1941.
One of Star Snowy’s sons,
Deputy Snowy, sired Star Act,
grand-champion at Sydney Sheep
Show in . 1948. And Snowy Peer
—who sired Snowy Surprise, the
father of Royal Snowy, who
sired Snowy Monarch, the father
of many of our present-day top-
sires—was also by Snowy. He
also sired Royal Hero, the sire
of the grand-champion ram
Sovereign Snowy, who sired
Royal Duke, grand-champion of
the 1954 Sydney Sheep Show,
and Hercules, grand-champion
of the 1955 Sydney Sheep Show,
The Uniform family was
established in 1930. Uniform
was half-brother to Snowy, and
was by Merryville No. 1. One
of Uniform’s sons was Uni-
form 11, grand-champion at Syd-
ney in 1933, and he, together
with Lady Lorna, gave me
my second double grand-
championship at the Sydney
Sheep Show (1933). Uniform II
sired Uniform 111, who in turn
sired Uniform IV, grand-
UNIFORM IV, another Merryville grand-champion,
cut 43lb. of wool.
champion ram of the 1953 Syd-
ney Sheep Show.
When he was five years old his
body-weight was 2391 b. and he
cut 431 b. of wool. His 1951,
1952 and 1953 fleeces together
weighed 1111 b., or an average
cut of 371 b. He was reserve
grand-champion at the Sydney
Sheep Show in 1952, and his
fleece the previous . year won
the grand-championship. Many
of this ram’s progeny are at the
Show this year.
The Builder family is another
Merryville family. The Builder,'
sired by Merryville No. 1, sired
Master Builder, champion
strong-wool ram in Coota-
mundra and Melbourne in 1934 ;
champion strong-wool ram and
reserve grand-champion at Yass
and Gunning in 1935; and
grand-champion at Gunning,
Yass, Crookwell, Queanbeyan
and A.C.T. Shows in 1939, when
eight years old.
That year he sired over 400
lambs by artificial-insemination,
and his fleece was awarded its
type-championship at Sydney
Sheep Show, was then judged
on commercial value for the
grand-championship, and won
this, too. His previous fleeces
had won the grand-champion-
ship at Sydney Show in 1938 and
1939.
In 1941 I used him again by
insemination and marked over
1000 lambs by him (in one
season). No shows were held
in Sydney from 1941 to 1946, so
his progeny were not shown
there. But one of his sons, Chief
Builder, sired the grand-
champion of the 1950 Sydney
Show and the grand-champion
ewe of the 1949 Show. He also
sired Builder’s Pride, the father
of Jubilee Builder, grand-
champion, Sydney Sheep Show,
1952, and Monument, whose son
sired the grand-champion ewe
at Yass this year,
Three other Merryville fami-
lies—The Joker, Brilliant and
Silky Snowy families—are of the
old Saxon and Silesian stock.
In 1903, a Glasslough ram,
which my father called The
Joker, was bought at the Sydney
sales. I can remember five other
rams that we bought from
Tasmania, some at very high
prices, but The Joker was
the only one that gave
us what we wanted. His
stock was really outstanding. A
lot of my fine and superfine
top-sires at Merryville now are
directly descended on the male
side from The Joker,
For instance, Ace of Hearts,
by Merryville Ace, was the sire
of Queen of Hearts, champion
fine-wool and grand-champion
ewe at' the 1955 Sydney Sheep
'Show. A ewe of splendid con-
formation, covering and quality,
she cut a fleece of 22|lb. with a
body-weight of 1601 b. The
superfine-champion ewe and the
reserve-champion fine-wool ewe
at the same show were by the
same ram.
It is interesting to trace his pedi-
gree, which goes back, through
The Joker, to some of the
famous Tasmanian rams. Ace ot
Hearts, by Merryville Ace
(winner of many fine-wool cham-
pionships), by Glasslough Super,
by Glasslough A (superfine-wool
champion, Sydney Sheep Show,
1937), by Glasslough (superfine
champion, Melbourne Sheep
Show, 1935), by No. 26, by No.
9, by Radiant, by Bright Wool,


■//m
''WMZmh
»// 'Mv/aS&'W////
m
Wm
m
'."'//A
//>///
"20
£ 5
WM
V/.i
Highly skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
connected with the wool industry
will gladly discuss the problems
affecting your business
between
bidding
& shipping
the *Adelaide
operates
swiftly
in the
interests &
service of *
wool buyers
& brokers
i.
'll
y///'/■'
///1 f*/. *
WMW-' y - :
wiki
//, ••
Y/',?a
'////A
m
t/"VWmWj/r ■ \
ml
c/'/
WA
&/&
iiM
CONSULT OUR
WOOL MANAGERS
AT ADELAIDE,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE OR PERTH
OFFICES
(Hie lank
"INCORPORATED IN 1865 IN SOUTH
"V 1 ♦•'V
AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY"
ALAN’ A. WEST GENERAL MANAGER
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH and LONDON
LADY LORNA
by The Joker, by Son of Presi-
dent 11, by President (sold for
1600gns. in 1896), by Golden
Horn 11, by Golden Horn, by
Treasurer, by Golden Tom, by
Sir Thomas 11, by Sir Thomas.
Other sires of The Ace family
[a branch of The Joker clan] in
present-day use are Super Ace,
champion superfine-wool ram,
Sydney Sheep Show, 1950;
Ace Pilot, who sired the top-
price ram at Melbourne sales
last year, and his son, Ace Pilot
11, superfine champion at A.C.T.,
Gunning and Boorowa this year.
Another good branch of this
family is Merryville Trump, fine-
wool champion at Yass Show
in 1948. He was by Grand Slam,
by Glasslough Super, by Glass-
lough A. Many of his sons are
being used with the Merryville
fine and superfine stud-ewes at
the present time.
Another famous sire of The
Joker family is Glasslough D, by
Glasslough C, by Glasslough
Double, by Glasslough. One of
Glasslough D’s sons sired the
reserve-champion ewe at last
year’s Sydney Sheep Show.
The Brilliant family is also an
old one, the original ram being
unpedigreed, of Saxon blood.
Some, of this family figured
prominently at „ Sydney Sheep
Show in 1916, when I won £B6
in prizemoney and took six
championships, several reserve-
championships, and exhibited the
grand-champion ewe. Rams of
this fine-wool family included
Brilliant Test, Allbrilliant
(champion at Yass and sire of
the superfine-champion ram at
Sydney in 1953), Super Brilliant
(grand-champion at Crook Well
in 1938 and champion at Coota-
mundra in 1939), Brilliant Lad
(champion fine-wool ram at
Gunning, Yass, Goulburn,
Queanbeyan and Canberra,
1939), and Silver Brilliant (super-
fine champion ram, Sydney,
1941).
Finally, the Silky Snowys, the
youngest family on Merryville,
but by no means the least im-
portant. It started with Silky
Snowy, a ram that turned-up in
the special-stud two-year-old
sale-rams in 1946. He carried
the special earmark: indicating
that he was out of a special-stud
ewe, but his tattoo was not read-
able, as it had festered, and so
did not take properly. He was
a very plain-bodied sheep with
long-stapled superfine-wool of
excellent quality and covering.
I decided to use him in the
top-stud, thinking that he would
produce some very nice plain
sheep to suit our Victorian
clients, but he kept on growing
and developed quite a big front
by the time he was four years
old. I showed him at Yass in
1948, and he was awarded the
championship in the superfine
class, and went on to win the
grand-championship. He also
won the superfine championship
at the Sydney Sheep Show in
1948 and 1949.
One of his sons, Ringmaster,
was superfine champion and re-
serve grand-champion at Yass,
Gunning and Boorowa, and
superfine champion in Sydney,
Cootamundra and Albury, in
1952.
Another ram sired by Silky
Snowy brought 3700gns. when
sold at auction in Sydney in
1953, and the following year won
the fine-wool championship at
Sydney; another was sold at
auction in Melbourne in 1954
for 1700gns. Many other rams
sired by him have been sold at
prices ranging from 500gns. to
1250gns. One of his grandsons,
a ram by Ringmaster, was
grand-champion at Bathurst
Show recently, and another ram
by the same sire was champion
in the superfine-class at Yass.
But the most outstanding son
of this ram is Silky’s Best, super-
fine-champion and reserve
grand-champion at Sydney last
year. He was also included in
the team that won the Stone-
haven Cup. This ram’s fleece
was awarded the grand-cham-
pionship of the world lOOgns.
trophy for the fleece showing
the most stylish characteristic
quality of any breed or cross-
breed. His fleece weighed 281 b.
without locks or crutchings, and
his body-weight the day he was
shorn, after a heavy serving-
season,, was 240i1b.
At the last two Melbourne
Royal Shows an international
wool exhibition has been held,
and on both occasions Merry-
ville has scooped the pool.
Merryville-blood sheep have
come out with top-values 44
times out of 45 in shearing-test
competitions held in Sydney,
Cootamundra and Yass, for
ewes and wethers. At the Coota-
mundra tests for three Merino
wethers, where all the exhibits
were paddocked together for 12
months, Merryville-blood ex-
hibits won first-, second- and
third-prizes ifi 1941, 1942,
1943, 1944 and 1946. They
won first-, third- and fourth-
prizes in 1945, 1947 and 1948,
first and second in 1949,
1951 and 1953 ; first and third
in 1952, and first in 1954 and
1955. There were 14 pens com-
peting in 1945, 15 pens in 1946,
and from seven to 12 pens in
other years.
Merryville’s show-record is
fairly well known, in general
terms. Specifically, we have
won 1592 major prizes (grand-
championships, championships,
and reserve-championships) at
Sydney, Melbourne, Coota-
mundra, Albury, Yass, Goul-
burn, A.C.T., Bathurst, and
MASTER BUILDER
such shows. Out of the last
nine Sydney Sheep Shows Merry-
ville has won eight grand-
championships for rams, six
grand-championships for ewes,
and, since the inception of the
Stonehaven Cup, has won this
trophy seven times.
I daresay young Merino-stud
breeders would be interested to
hear some of my opinions, and
my methods. First, I had a clear
picture in my mind of the type
of sheep I wanted to breed.
When still in my teens (I was
judging at shows before I was
20) I knew what I wanted,
and I never wavered from my
determination, despite changes
in fashion. My aim was to pro-
duce the best sheep for different
conditions, with wool of 64’s
to 66’s for the hot, low-rainfall
areas, and from 70’s to 90’s for
the tablelands - country with
heavier rainfall.
The class of ram I had in mind
was a big sheep with a sound
constitution; good head, and
well-set, nicely crimped horns (in-
dicating character); thick, soft,
velvety ears ; broad, soft, open
face, with round, open nostrils,
well-furnished scrag and good
topknot, and as free as possible
from brown and black spots
about the face (but I am not so
fussy that I would reject a sheep
which is really good otherwise
because of some slight defect
in this direction).
A deep, plain neck, without
too many folds, is, in my
Opinion, the best type of front,
and when carried out into flock-
sheep will give you a more even
and valuable fleece, with less
to skirt-off. Such sheep thrive
better, as they are not so much
(i Continued on page 33)


Results Tell!
IMMUNOL
ALDRIN
Liquid sheep dip ,
★ Actual Users Report:
UP TO FIVE MONTHS
FULL PROTECTION
FROM TICKS, LICE & FLYSTRIKE
9
CHECK THESE ESSENTIAL FEATURES: Liquid, easy to use, once mixed stays mixed.
Safe—Contains extra powerful antiseptic. Has outstanding wetting power. No solids or
powders. Ideal for spray plants. Mixes with hard or soft water.
Another famous Immunol Dip!
GALLON DRUMS, £ll/10/- .. .. Makes 800 gallons of wash.
HART & CO. PTY. LTD.
38 CLARENDON STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE. MXII2B
A Big Job
MANAGING A SHEEP STATION
By J. JORDAN
Managers fail into
grades according to
rbspon sibility. A
manager may control
several properties, each with a
working-manager, or he may
control both a stud- and flock-
property. He may have adminis-
trative responsibility only, or he
may be responsible for stud-
work alone.
Normally, on a large-flock
property, the manager is respon-
sible for both administration and
the practical working of *the
place.
Frequently the owner doesn’t
live on the property, or it may
be a trust-property. In any case,
it is customary for the manager
to accept responsibility for run-
ning the place as though he were
owner-manager. If he has the
necessary knowledge, business
ability and integrity the arrange-
ment usually works.
The chief responsibility of any
manager is to make the place
pay. There must be an adequate
margin of income over out-
goings and, in a large concern,
outgoings can be heavy. Since
income is conditioned by ruling
market-prices at auction (which
may be affected by events
thousands of miles away) the
successful * manager must keep
his wits about him.
It is essential to produce the
maximum weight of wool per
head, and to get the maximum
price for the type and quality of
wool produced. Similarly, it is
essential to get the best prices
for sheep and lambs by selling
them under the most favorable
conditions, consistent with
overall planning.
That implies, among other
things, watching the markets like
Shearing on Boonoke, one of the great parent-studs in the Riverina.
a hawk. But all sales must be
carefully considered and every-
thing sold to the best advantage.
Expenditure
Outgoings must be carefully
scrutinised to ensure that costs
are kept to a warrantable and
workable minimum. Expenses
involved in earning income are
routine, and represent tax-
deductions. Wages, shearing,
crutching, branding and dip-
ping are standard debits, and in
many localities, drenching, inocu-
lating, jetting, mulesing and
foot-treatment represent normal
routine-expense.
Other recurring, expenses are
maintenance of buildings, fences,
yards, machinery, motor-
vehicles, implements, harness,
windmills and troughs. Then
there are fodder-purchases,
freight, replacement of tools and
other items to be faced at fairly
regular intervals.
An efficient manager sees that
costs are evenly spread through
the years, that unnecessary
expense is not incurred, that
waste is prevented, and that the
greatest value is derived from
all expenditure.
The manager must get the best
value from his staff, to whom he
allots various tasks each day,
either direct to the men or
through the overseer. Selection
of men skilled at their work is
of the greatest importance. One
man with “know-how” —and,
more important, “know-why”—
is worth a dozen of the other
sort. The manager must know
how to handle men and how to
get them to work as a team.
It is essential that the manager
should know every detail of
awards for station-hands and
for the shearing-team. He must
also be thoroughly familiar with
the Accommodation Act, which
sets out conditions for shearers’
quarters, mess-room, ablutions
and other facilities.
The manager maintains
station-records and -accounts.
He keeps an official diary with
records of stock-tallies, lambing,
joining, shearing, crutching, dip-
ping, contracts and prices.
Important matters and events
are recorded in an information-
or reference-book.
Some managers maintain
station account-books, but
frequently a station book-
keeper or accountant may keep
these. An accountant usually
prepares taxation-returns, but
the manager generally keeps the
wages-book, and is responsible
for group-certificates or tax-
stamps.
Responsibilities
The manager must make
regular inspections of sheep,
fences, windmills, tanks, build-
ings, machinery and vehicles,
and shearing-gear. He must
make regular counts of all flocks
and should be on the spot to
direct seasonal operations.
Information from inspections
and checks should be recorded,
as it is usual for a manager to
furnish the owner, executors or
trustees with monthly stock-
tallies and progress-reports.
He is responsible for sales and
purchases and for the supply
and replenishment of such items
as petrol, oil, power- and
lighting-kerosene, tools, wire
and netting, piping and spare-
parts for mills, vehicles,
implements and shearing-
machinery.
He must also keep up-to-date
with current market-reports in
various stock-journals and by
attending sales. And he must be
continuously aware of improved
methods and specifics for dip-
ping, jetting, fly-treatment and
for the prevention and cure of
sheep-diseases. He must be
versed in water-storage, and, of
course, he must make sure there
is a permanent water-supply. He
must also see that pastures
provide sufficient good feed to
sustain his flocks, and must make
arrangements for reserve-fodder.
An important part of the job
is running the type of sheep best
suited to the location and
climate. The dry country in
northern Victoria and the
Riverina is most suitable for
medium to strong Merinos. As
it costs no more to run well-bred
sheep than badly-bred ones, the
aim is to run an even and
soundly-bred flock of breeders.
Maiden ewes are classed before
joining, and the culls are sold.
Well-bred flock-rams are bought
from a known stud. If the
progeny is satisfactory and cut
heavy fleeces of the quality
desired, the stud gets more busi-
ness from the same buyer.
For classing ewes and buying
rams the manager may find it
pays to engage a sheepclasser,
just as it pays to have a wool-
classer at shearing, but he
himself should also be qualified
to class his own breeders, buy
his own rams and class his owe


Co-operation
Progress
Service
A brief history of N.S.W/s most pro-
gressive Wool and Produce Company the
Growers 1 OWN Country Producers Selling
Company Limited.
Back in 1910, before the First World War, a group of
practical far-seeing men banded together to form the
firm soon to be familiarly known as the “Country
Producers.”
From inception the Company’s policy has been to pay
all Wool Clients, whether or not, refunds
from commissions charged. In all these have
amounted to £292,227. (Last year’s refund, £23,168.)
At the same time business turnover has grown
phenomenally. Last year, for instance, 93,765 bales
of growers’ wool, 244,017 sheep and lambs, countless
hides, skins and drums of tallow were sold in the
Company’s Sydney centre.
The Store, Stock, Property and Merchandise depart-
ments today provide clients with outstanding service.
Yes, the “Country Producers” is a solid company—
one which merits well the slogan: “You can consign
, with confidence to C.P.S.”
THE
Country Producers
SELLING COMPANY LIMITED
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
BU 5101
clip. At least he should be able
to do these things to a reasonably
high standard.
He must have a fixed standard
for the type of sheep he will
breed and the' quality and type
of wool he must produce.
Carrying Capacity
He must decide the safe
carrying - capacity of his
property, and plan for the
annual lamb-drop increase to
equal the disposal of cast-for-
age ewes and wethers. These
would be sold at five years, leav-
ing young flocks on the property.
This should leave him with
more-or-less equal numbers of
ewes, wethers and lambs.
In the present concern about
the drop in wool-prices and
rising costs it is being suggested
that the higher income of recent
years can be maintained by
increasing carrying-capacity', and
by better management of flocks
to produce more wool. But, to
some degree, these problems are
always with the station-manager.
He is constantly considering
flock- and pasture-improvement
to increase income, and steering
a safe course between risky
extremes.
On the one hand, overstock-
ing is dangerous; on the other,
understocking is unnecessary and
uneconomical. The manager
must be able to assess the safe
carrying-capacity of the station,
and if a margin is necessary he
will retain one or two paddocks
as reserves for rotation- or
Change-paddocks.
It is worth noting that com-
parative costs and income may
be calculated on a common basis
—per head, per pound of wool,
per acre, or per sheep-area.
Sheep do well when moved
into fresh paddocks, and good
management requires that
paddocks should be spelled to
promote winter-growth and to
encourage seeding after spring-
growth. Spelling of paddocks
and a plan for regular pasture-
renovation will ensure that sheep
are maintained in forward
condition.
Good, healthy, young sheep
resist disease and stand-up to
dry or difficult conditions better
than weak or old sheep. In the
campaign to prevent disease,
rather than treat it, culls and
older sheep are a liability, while
young sheep are an asset.
In these days of footrot-
incidence the breeding-station
must give regular attention to
feet. Foot-paring and running
the sheep through slaked-lime
a ile simple and effective
precautions.
It has also been said that half
the sheep’s breeding goes down
its throat. Hence, good sheep
must have good mouths as well
as sound feet.
Many sheep-stations also run
a mob of cattle to eat-off the
long feed in a prolific season.
Young cattle weaners or
yearlings—are purchased, and
may be retained till the follow-
ing year, when they can be
turned-off at a nice profit.
It is obvious from the fore-
going that the manager needs to
combine the qualities of adminis-
trator, accountant, sheepclasser
and woolclasser. He must
be capable of doing the normal
work of station-hands, and have
a practical knowledge of the
trades of builder, carpenter,
bricklayer, mechanic, plumber,
fencer, electrician and butcher.
He must have a working
knowledge of all jobs done on
a station. He must be able to
diagnose and treat sheep-diseases
as readily as engine- and
mechanical-troubles, and to
handle trucks, tractors and all
machinery on the property.
His experience should include
sowing-down of pastures, either
by direct sowing on virgin
pastures or, after cultivation, by
sowing-down clovers and ryes
while.oversowing with a cereal-
crop.
In sheep-work the manager is
usually a reliable counter, is
able to draft on earmarks,' and
to muster ; and he has to have a
thorough knowledge of sheep,
horses and dogs.
Fire - fighting arrangements
must be comprehensive and
equipment checked and tested
regularly. It is a good plan to
have extinguishers allotted to
buildings, and knapsack-sprays
to cottages and quarters. Water-
tanks and the fire-engine should
be on platforms for easy loading
on to a truck.
With the fire-engine, there
Another Boonoke shearing scene: the classer at work.
should be spare tins of petrol
and oil, an axe, wire-cutters and
waterbag. If possible, a
complete fire-unit on a fire-truck
should be standing-by over the
summer months. The station-
staff should understand what to
do in case of fire, should have
practice-drill, and should know
into what paddocks sheep must
be moved in an emergency.
Where there are waterways
and low-lying areas subject to
flooding, the same sort of drill
should be worked out.
Station Staff
The station staff is divided
into three broad categories. The
first is the executive staff
overseer, jackeroo and book-
keeper (if any). The overseer
and jackeroo may be called on
to assist the manager at any time
for any purpose. Like the
manager, they do not work
under awards, and their hours,
or days, are unlimited. (There
is an award for Queensland
jackeroos.)
The homestead staff is con-
trolled directly by the manager
or his wife. It includes the
groom, gardener, domestics and
married couple. All are
engaged for duty at or around
the homestead.
. The paddock staff includes
head - stockman, stockmen,
boundary - riders, mechanics,
station - carpenters, windmill-
mechanics, rabbiters, truck- and
tractor-drivers.
Numbers vary greatly. A
large, isolated property may
require a large staff, although
this also applies to a more
compact station running, say,
three sheep to the acre. In highly-
improved country extra men are
often needed for inoculation,
drenching, footrot-treatment and
the like, whereas in dry areas less
hands are required.
Some stations find contractors
available from near-by towns for
fencing, building, dam-sinking,
farming, wood-supplies and
rabbit-destruction. In this case
a smaller staff may be main-
tained and used mainly for
sheep-work. Good planning
provides facilities and equip-
ment which enable the station to
be run with a minimum staff in
emergency.
Allowing for contract-labor,
an 18,000-acre dry-area pro-
perty, shearing 12,000 sheep,
would employ, say, 10 men —
overseer, jackeroo, head-stock-
man, three stockmen, groom-
gardener;, cook - housemaid,
rabbiter and truck- and tractor-
driver. Under similar condi-
tions, I have managed in
emergencies with a staff of six,
and even four.
If there is an outstation, an
extra stockman is required, while
a separate gardener is needed
for a large homestead-garden.
An extra man may be engaged
if there is much pasture-work,
or perhaps for extra truck-
work. A station-carpenter,
windmill - expert or extra
rabbiters may also be needed.
For such a property, then, the
staff could vary between 10 and
16. On large stations (one sheep
to four or more acres) boundary-
riders may &lso be necessary, as
well as extra men where contract
labor is not available.
Married staff have separate
cottages; single men have
quarters.
Station-hands may be engaged
on a “found” or “not-found”
basis. , For the “not-found” men,
wood and milk are usually free,
meat is supplied at the award
rate, and, of course, the cottage
is usually rent-free.
Arrangements are made by
stations for mail and supplies
for station-hands. The hands
collect milk at the station-dairy
each day, and meat at the
station butcher’s-shop two or
three times weekly. Mail,
groceries and vegetables are col-
lected from the nearest town two
or three times a week, and the
staff draw them from a central
location at the station. Where
there is a mail-run, the mailman
will collect mail and groceries
and leave them in a station-box.
The Overseer
The overseer should be the
manager’s right-hand man, but
his standing may vary according
to ability and qualifications—
some are practically assistant-
managers. The overseer is
usually in charge of paddock-
men stockmen, boundary-
riders, etc. but not the
homestead staff. He should be
capable of supervising all stock-
work, fencing, windmill-work
and general maintenance of
machinery, engines and imple-
ments.
In his, sheep-work he should
be a safe sheep-counter and a
good drafter. He must have the
“seeing eye” when inspecting
sheep and when making other
inspections round the property.
In some cases overseers are
supervisory, although they may
look after a few flocks,
especially the rams, in addition
to supervisory work. The
overseer is often allotted a
utility, jeep or Land-Rover for
transport; sometimes a truck or
a horse.
The overseer should maintain
a diary of each day’s work
allotted' to each man. He also
keeps a paddock-book, recording
stock-tallies and movement of
flocks from one paddock to
another, and a record of horses
and the dairy-herd.
He advises the manager of
work completed or not com-
pleted each day, and also of any
matters affecting flocks, such as
feed, water and fences. The
overseer reports to the manager
each morning and gets the orders
for the day. Alternatively, the-
manager may give out the
orders and the overseer check
on them by going round the
paddocks. He may be required
to take charge of teams allotted
to any special work, or
to take charge during seasonal
operations.
A single overseer may live
with the manager at the home-
stead or in quarters with, say, a
bookkeeper and jackeroos. In
this case a cook may be pro-
vided and meals served in a staff-
mess. A married overseer has
a separate cottage, and may be
engaged on a “found” or “not-
found” basis.
An overseer of the right type
is m line for appointment as
“lackfroos are the cadets of the
industry. They usually live with
the manager or may be allotted
quarters. The object of the
jackeroo is to fit himself to be
an overseer, then manager. In
theory, he is trained by the
manager, but in the first year he
does his share of station-work of
all kinds. After the first year
he comes more directly under
the manager’s guidance and is
given increasing responsibility
until he can be graded as junior-
overseer.
• The groom is the useful man
round the homestead area. The
name “groom” is a relic of the
past; he does not look after
horses now —paddock-men look
after their own. The groom is
often referred to as “cow-boy,”
particularly in Queensland. He
milks house-cows, makes butter,
pumps water, looks after poultry,
cuts wood for the homestead
kitchen, cares for the lighting-
plant, if any, and keeps the
homestead area tidy, disposing
of rubbish, ashes, etc., at the
tip.
Frequently, a groom and wife
are engaged as a married couple.
The man may be groom-
gardener and his wife homestead-
cook and housemaid.
Other than domestic staff,
which may include a house-
keeper, a gardener is often a
regular homestead employee
when the work is sufficient to
warrant his wages.
Homestead Staff
The head-stockman takes
charge of the other stockmen
whenever they work together.
He maintains his own record of
flocks, earmarks, station-marks
and brands, and may be required
to compare his tallies with those
of the overseer.
He should be an experienced
sheepman, with his own working
sheepdogs, and be able to count
and draft and take charge as
necessary at lamb-marking, dip-
ping and fly-treatment. He
should be experienced in all
repair- and maintenance-work of
the yards or shed, of fences,
gates, etc., and he will have a
very good idea of the tool- and
material-requirements for most
jobs on the station.
The head-stockman usually
has some flocks allotted to his
care, is responsible for care of
sheep brought into the
“hospital-pen” for treatment,
and is given special tasks, such
as dabbing paint on rams’
horns to distinguish drafts or
purchases.
Stockmen
Stockmen are really the
shepherds of the flocks. Some-
times they are allotted to certain
paddocks and are responsible
only for the sheep in these
paddocks, but they may be given
different paddocks daily. Most
stockmen use a horse-and-gig
or a float with rubber-tyres. In
some areas it is necessary to use
hacks; in others, motor-cycles
or jeeps. Still, most areas are
suitable for gig-work, and this
conveyance enables the stock-
man to carry feed for his horse,
his own meals and his dogs.
For use in the paddock the
stockman should carry axe,
shovel, wire-strainers, pliers,
wire, dagging-shears, sharpening-
stone, foot-trimmers, skinning-
knife and waterbag. In fly-
weather he carries fly-specific, in
a bottle or tin ; also a tin for
mixing and a brush for applica-
tion to the shorn area affected.
A pair of tweezers is used to
extract grass-seeds from eyes and
ears of lambs and weaners. For
pink-eye he carries zinc-sulphate
and, with a shearers’ oilcan, puts
one or two drops in affected
eyes.
The stockman musters and
droves his sheep to the wool-
shed for shearing and crutching,
and to the dip for dipping or
jetting. Much of his normal
work as with each flock in the
paddock. If he sees a sheep out
by itself he will promptly investi-
gate ; if it is down he will try
(<Continued on page 50)


miLi'dl
sAiuontu
YOU LIFT IT. IT
DRI-VES AS
IT DROPS...
NO WQRKIN6 PARTS
HITS FAIR ARO SQUARE
EVERY TIME...
THERE'S NO EASIER
WAY TO DRIVE
A POST THAN WITH
nuoni
RETAILERS EVERYWHERE
British Ensign Product
0
I
THE PORT OF LIVERPOOL
T
\
as
m
Wi
3s
i
iTiurfin
Herbert R. Young
Australian and New Zealand Representative
MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR BOARD
19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SHIP VIA LIVERPOOL
Prompt despatch Rail, Road or Canal
SELLING WOOL...
By A. S. DUNSTAN
THE auctioneer at the Syd-
ney Wool Exchange an-
nounces Lot 126, listens
attentively to a babble of
bids, then knocks his gavel on
the top of his rostrum and, in
a flat, unemotional voice, names
the buyer and bid-price.
The offering of a wool-lot has
been repeated millions of times
—in Sydney, Perth, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Newcastle, Laun-
ceston and other Australian
woolselling centres. It has been
repeated so often that it has
become commonplace.
But it is a scene which epi-
tomises the calm, swiftly efficient
auction-system which each year
sells some four-million bales of
Australian wool to all parts of
the world. It is a system which is
based on confidence —the confi-
dence of the grower in his
broker and the confidence be-
tween broker and buyer.
In no other commercial sphere
in Australia are the stakes
bigger. This year, brokers will
sell wool worth more than £3OO
million. No grower has any
doubt about being paid for his
wool —and buyers know that
each bale will be available for
shipment when needed.
As a system we like to con-
sider it near-perfect. A recent
survey of growers showed that
99 per cent, of them thought it
was, and buyers offer no com-
plaints on broad principles.
It has been tempered by 116
years of human experience, of
ironing-out situations which
could give rise to misunderstand-
ings, of cutting corners so that
growers would get their returns
more swiftly, and, above all, of
preserving the auction-system to
ensure that wool is sold in a
free, competitive atmosphere to
the highest bidder.
It all began on a spring morn-
ing more than a century ago,
when a small boy, standing out-
side a lean-to on the banks of
the Tank Stream, tirelessly
clanged a bell —the traditional
call to an auction-sale.
The lean-to was where Thomas
Sutcliffe Mort, an auctioneer,
began his business early in 1843
as a seller of general merchan-
dise.
In September of that year he
catalogued two bales of wool,
along with a list of other mer-
chandise. Mort’s next offering,
in January, 1844, comprised 30
bales of wool, in four lots.
Before the advent of Mort
the big squatters sent their wool
direct to London for sale, often
waiting a year for the proceeds
of their clip. Many graziers,
however, sold direct to Sydney
merchants, who, in turn, sold
the wool in London and used the
proceeds to buy trading-stock in
Britain. Some merchants em-
ployed buyers who haunted the
routes by which wooigrowers
brought their clip by bullock-
dray to Sydney.
But prices were haphazard—
news df English values was
invariably six months old, and
who could tell what the wool
would be worth when it finally
reached the English markets?
Mort’s auctions quickly won
favor among a section of
growers, as these auctions meant
that all, or most, Sydnpy mer-
chants bid on the clip when it
reached Sydney. Mort took
advantage of the position and
expanded his premises to a new
site on the shores of Sydney
Cove, where he built a two-
story building, the ground-floor
of which was used to display
wool and sheepskins to be
auctioned.
Wool being dumped by Darling Island Stevedoring & Lighterage Company. The
hydraulic press crushes the 5ft. bale down to half-size to be strapped with wire ties.
Photo by Bridgland Brown Pty., Ltd.
He continued as auctioneer,
but the pace was leisurely—
wool was 'sold when enough
arrived. But sometimes the bul-
lockies who brought the wool
worked overtime. Their pay for
overtime in the 1840’s was a
bucket of beer brought from
the hotels about the foreshores
of Sydney Cove.
The clanging of the bell con-
tinued to be the official notice
that a sale was about to be held,
but sales did not begin at any
particular time. Mort would
wait until he reckoned all the
important buyers were on the
spot; then he would read in
detail the terms and conditions
of sale. He extolled the virtue
of each bale of wool that came
under the hammer, commented
on the seasonal outlook, and
generally wheedled bids from
the buyers —the merchants of
Sydney who looked to wool to
provide them with sterling-
credits to buy goods in England.
Their 'system of bidding was
silent —a wink, a nod, pulling
the ear, lifting a pencil—and
generally recognised only by the
auctioneer.
By the late-’forties and early-
’fifties Sydney wool-auctions
had attracted world attention,
and buyers from England and
Continental mills drifted in to
the auctions.
By the late-’sixties Australian
wool-auctions were firmly estab-
lished and Mort and Co. faced
competition. A catalogue of
that period listed, besides Mort
and Co., O. B. Ebsworth (a
protege of Thomas Mort),
Richardson and Wrench, Irwin
and Turner, J. Devlin, Jnr.,
Brewster and Trebeck, and Har-
rison and Jones —names which
became famous in N. S. Wales
pastoral history, and which, in
one way or another, are still
linked with commerce.
Although an auctioneer estab-
lished the Australian woolsell-
ing-system, buyers have made
big contributions to its success.
During the ’sixties Rudolph
Kummerer was regarded as
“cock-o’-the-walk” of Sydney
buyers. He made a fortune by
a steep rise in woof-prices
caused by the Franco-Prussian
war, and sold-out to Henry
Austin, Snr.
Austin is credited with doing
much to modernise woolselling.
He certainly encouraged British
and Continental countries to
send their buyers to the Sydney
market rather than buy second-
hand at the London auctions.
As woolselling moved into the
’eighties it became obvious to
brokers that a rostering of sales
would be necessary to handle
the growing number of clips. In
1887 the brokers formed an
organisation and appointed
John Leach secretary. Disputes
among them occurred, and in
1901 their organisation’s influ-
ence was small. In 1908 E. B.
Simpson, a Sydney solicitor,
arranged a conference, and
brokers once more grouped to-
gether to act as a whole on
matters of general concern.
By 1900 the quantity of wool
sold at Australian auctions
totalled 720,000 bales.
The system of auctions began
to change. No longer did
auctioneers praise the quality of
wool they were selling. It had
already been inspected and
appraised by the buyer, who
knew just how good or bad it
was. The silent bids had long
since disappeared, and buyers
shouted what they were pre-
pared to pay—sometimes to the
discomfiture of the auctioneer,
who would be taken to task by a
woolgrower if he thought he
heard a higher bid than the price
at which his clip was knocked-
down.
The method of sale had to be
changed. Closer-settlement had
swept N. S. Wales, and offerings
from graziers were, individually,
becoming smaller and more
mixed.
By 1900 it was sometimes 9
p.m. before the auction was
completed. Brokers decided
then to split the auction into
two, the sales to be carried on
simultaneously. This eased the
strain on both buyers and sellers.
Today, three sales are held at
the same time, with each broker
having four catalogues to offer
—big lots (five bales or more of
Merino wool in one line);
Merino star-lots of less than
five bales • and comeback and
crossbred wool; and “imper-
sonal” wools, which have a com-
mon brand for the wool of a
number of owners.
Regulations for the conduct
of wool-auctions are fairly
extensive and cover all fore-
seeable eventualities. Like
Topsy, they just grew, added-to
here or there to meet changing
circumstances, or erased from
the book as no longer applic-
able; They must always be
kept flexible to meet unexpected
circumstances and to keep pace
with social ancj economic
changes.
In the main these regulations
define how and when buyers
shall pay for their purchases,
the size of offerings, method of
displaying wool, and so forth.
The rules are administered by a
committee of the 10 Sydney
woolselling-brokers. The com-
mittee also meets buyers when
matters of mutual interest arise.
The sale-centre —the auction-
room of the Royal Exchange in
Sydney—is only a focal-point of
the woolbroker.
The aim of all brokers is to
get as much as possible for each
client’s clip. To that end, wool-
broking starts at the client’s
shearing-shed. After each clip
is received and sold most
brokers report to the client on
the standard of the classing and,
if necessary, suggest how it can
be improved.
This information helps in the
get-up of the clip in the shed,
where, usually, qualified classers
classify the wool according to
type, length of staple, degree of
vegetable-fault (the amount of
burr and grass-seed it holds),
color (largely influenced by dis-
trict-conditions) and a variety of
other characteristics.
Once this is done the grower
brands the bales and dispatches
them to the broker’s woolstore.
Here the bales are weighed
within 48 hours of arrival and
receipts sent to the grower.
Tb,e arrival-weights of the
wool are accepted by buyers as
the true weights, with a pro-
vision that they can have it re-
weighed immediately after pur-
chase to check against loss in
weight by moisture-evaporation.
Wool, once weighed, is
stacked to await its turn for
sale, as all brokers offer wool
strictly in accordance with its
arrival-date at the store. In
Sydney the main stores of the
10 woolbrokers hold between
30,000 and 50,000 bales each.
When the sale-day for a clip
approaches, certain bales of the
clip are taken to the top-floors
of the store and laid-out in
long rows in natural light, so
that they can first be examined
by the broker’s experts and later
by the woolbuyers. The
broker’s experts check the class-
ing, and then catalogues of the
offering are printed.
Copies of the catalogues are
delivered to regular wool-buyers
the day before the sale, and at
6.30 a.m. on the sale-morning the
stores are opened to their inspec-
tion. The buyers inspect the
wool to appraise its type and
yield—the two essentials in fix-
ing the value of wool. As there
are nearly 1400 types of wool
and the yield can vary according
to seasonal and other conditions,
this task requires immense skill
and experience.
The yield of wool is the assess-
ment of the percentage of clean
wool after the extraneous matter
—animal-fat, seed, dust, burr,
etc. —is removed. This estima-
tion of yield is an art which
buyers spend a lifetime perfect-
ing. But, as in most cases where
human judgment is involved,
there is nearly always a buyer
who expects a higher yield than
another. This is one of the
elements which adds to competi-
tion in the auction-room.
Buyers, however, cannot
afford to be wide of the mark in
their yield-estimates. Many have
to guarantee their principals the
yield the wool will make, and
account for any deficiency.
On each selling-day in Sydney
about 16,000 bales are repre-
sented on the inspection-floor.
These generally represent 3600
lots, about the maximum which
can be handled in a day. The
physical and mental strain of
trying to value more wool would
be too great. Up to 500 wool-
buyers and their assistants will
0 Continued on page 45)


PORT LINE LTD
Regular Sailings—Fast and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian Forts.
Limited number of passengers carried.
' HH
H
m
: •
AGENTS—
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
TASMANIAN WOOLGBOVVERS’ AGENCY CO. LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD., North Queensland ports.
WEST AUSTRALIAN SHIPPING ASSOCIATION LTD., Fremantle.
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in England)
Chadsworth House, 1-7 Bent Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Maritime Building, Wellington.
For Speed and Service
r /
\
a
i %
■ :
2SKs^
,: 11
. J
••’ tB
I
1 i ; iiiiiSii!l
■
r*
<<»!«
, .....:
WILHELMSEN LINES
Regular service to the Middle East, the Continent
and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double- or single-deck cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated Cargo
Vessels from Australia to U.S. and Canadian
Atlantic Coast Ports, and Trinidad via Panama
Canal. Vessels carry a limited number of
passengers in saloon accommodation.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese
ports—returning via New Guinea and Island
Ports. Regular sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros
and Citos with general and refrigerated space
available; also special mechanical ventilation for
Fruit, Vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in single- or
two-berth cabins.
Fly
SAS (Scandinavian Airlines System) serves 5 Continents and
more cities in Eurppe than any other inter-continental airline.
You can connect with SAS at Los Angeles and fly the Polar
Route to Copenhagen and all Europe or you can join SAS at
Bangkok and fly via the Middle East. .
Enjoy the luxury of Super DC-6B aircraft with “Royal Viking
First Class and “Globetrotter” Tourist Class Services.
Later this year SAS (WHO WERE FIRST OVER THE POLE)
will fly a NEW Polar Route from Tokyo to Copenhagen.
For full details concerning the above services contact
“|OS ANGEIE
YO
ALL
ROPE
YOR
ASIA
NEAR
EAST
SOUT
AFRICA
AMERICA
NNESBUR
JOH/L
WILH. WILHELMSEN AGENCY PTY. LTD., 63 Pitt Street, Sydney; 51 William Street, Melbourne
and SHIPPING WOOL
By JOHN BRENNAN
IN 1807 there was shipped
from Sydney town the first
experimental consignment of
Australian-grown Merino
wool—a 2451 b.-lot for sale in
London. With it went —though
few possibly realised or under-
stood—a new country’s hopes
for its future, and on that day
was born an export-industry that
has built a nation and has been
the basic factor in its economy.
During the last financial year,
overseas shipments of Australian
wool totalled 3,547,511 bales of
an average weight of just over
3001 b. per bale.
In a good season Australian
wool-exports have mounted to
more than four-million bales —-
more than 700,000 tons of wool.
In the years since the war, a
season’s export-clip has netted
over £650-million Australian!
Comparatively little of the
country’s wool goes to London
now (Bradford is the centre for
most U.K. buyers); but it goes,
in fact, to all the world—to all
the countries of Europe, to
Russia and Japan, to the U.S.A.,
to Canada and to China, and to
out-of-the-way corners of all the
continents.
And getting it to where it must
go poses quite a problem of
organisation.
Wool does not come as an
export-commodity from a few
centralised manufacturers who
can arrange schedules and the
handling of their produce from
factory to ship’s side, but from
thousands of growers widely
scattered throughout the country.
They get their wool to the
brokers’ stores; the brokers get
it to sale. And after sale there
is still the problem of sending it
on its way.
That first 2451 b is not
certain whether it was baled as
one lot or broken into “parcels”
—could be stowed in a corner
of the hold of one of the 250-
ton bluff-bowed little “bruise-
waters” which were then Syd-
ney’s only link with the civilisa-
tion half-a-world away. The
same could not be done with
700,000 tons!
The problem of dispatch arose
early in the development of the
Australian wool-industry. In the
beginning it was a matter for the
grower. His market was in
London, and he had to find a
ship to get his produce there.
If there was one in port—they
came infrequently—and it had
the space available, then that
was right enough ; though who
was to pay the freight until the
grower received his draft was
often a question of dispute.
Though there were a few
“speculative buyers” operating in
the colony in the 1830’s, it was
not till 1843 when Thomas
Sutcliffe Mort inaugurated the
first Australian wool-auctions on
a more-or-less regular basis —
that the squatter could really
hope to sell his wool here and
be rid of the shipping-problem.
And when he did he was merely
handing the problem on to
someone else. The buyer then
had to get it away to the manu-
facturing centres in the Old
Country.
There was cutthroat competi-
tion for the shipping-space avail-
able, and as new areas were
opened-up for grazing and the
volume of the wool-clip in-
creased, the problem of shipping
it became the more acute. The
buyer gains nothing from wool
he has bought while it lies in
store. f
Soon the finest ships ever
built were making down to
Melbourne, Sydney and New-
castle to load wool. It was a
lucrative business if it could be
handled quickly. The Tea
Clippers left their China run.
Australian wool was better busi-
ness, and it was business and
trade they had been built for.
They’d race that wool—loading
it in late November and
December —to London’s Feb-
ruary sales.
The Cutty Sark, berthed close
alongside the wool stores in Syd-
ney Cove, poked her bowsprit out
over the roadway at Circular
Quay, where now, just over 60
years later, an ill-completed rail-
way-station mars the view and
where Mort’s first woolstore is
marked-down for immediate
destruction.
There were rivals to the Sark,
of course —Thermopylae and
Brilliant and The Tweed —but
none quite to equal her. To
her generally, as fastest of the
fleet, was given the honor of
being last ship on the loading-
berth, representing the last
chance of catching the London
sales.
In 1885 she raced a cargo of
4465 bales from Sydney to The
Lizard in 67 days. When, on
Christmas Eve of 1893, she sailed
from Sydney on her farewell
voyage she carried a cargo of
2,000,0001 b. of wool, valued at
approximately £lOO,OOO. The cost
of putting it aboard her was
rather more than £BOO and the
freight amounted to £4OOO.
Then it was:
With tallow casks all dunnaged
tight with tiers and tiers of
bales,
With cargo crammed from hatch
to hatch she's racing for the
sales .
It took the clippers five weeks
to load 5000-odd bales and three
months to get them to London.
Today the wool-ships load
20,000 bales within 10 days, and
six or seven weeks after the wool
is sold in Sydney or Goulburn
it is in Bradford, or Yokohama,
being combed into tops.
In the last full year for which
figures are available 312 ships
were engaged to carry Australian
wool to the U.K. and to the
Continent. There are no ade-
quate figures on how many ships
plied to Japan and the U.S. and'
other parts of the world.
The organisation involved in
arranging such a lift over
3,500,000 bales were dispatched
—is an outstanding example of
co-ordinated efficiency. The
work involved is little
and little appreciated, chiefly
because, year in year out, it func-
tions without hitch.
Take, for example, the situ-
atiort as it affects N. S. Wales.
The system is typical of that
operating in all the other States.
N. S. Wales has the largest
sheep-numbers (59 million) of
any of the States, and last season
1,250,000 bales of wool were
shipped from Sydney and
Newcastle. Sales are held
in Sydney, Goulburn and
Newcastle. They start. in
August and run through on vary-
ing dates to mid-May. If the clip
is to be got away adequate
shipping must be available to
lift it at the time of the sales.
That is of first importance.
If ships were long delayed there
would not be space in brokers’
stores to hold new and con-
stantly incoming wool. Also,
under what is known as the
“Prompt Period,” the buyer is
allowed only a certain time —
usually 21 days from date of sale
—to remove his wool without
incurring storage-charges. The
tonnage committee of the Over-
seas Shipping Representatives
Association is, therefore, firstly
responsible for the planning
needed to have ships in port
when they will be required.
R meets some months ahead
sale-dates. It has lairly
accurate estimates of the amount
( Continued on page 44)


'Phenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine.
-.4^2
R 1
,5
■
'V
m
Y ;
E
m
*
JAWT
SrA
-
/
H
m
&
<»S3S
m
m
«*‘PHENOVIS’
the most effective drench
for worms in sheep . . .
872.PHE.52X.2999
jLDEHHj) AjLE_fljnMflL |
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
SCI
PRODUCT
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Research and Practice
The Flystrike Problem
By H. G. BELSCHNER
IN Merino-raising in Aus-
tralia, fly-strike is a major
problem which at one time
cost the country an esti-
mated £4,000,000 a year. Today,
as a result of research over the
last 20 years, losses from fly-
strike have been greatly
reduced.
Some sheep are more attractive
to the fly than others, and
certain conditions predispose a
sheep, while other conditions
render it actually susceptible, to
strike. An effective strike cannot
occur unless there is free
moisture where the fly lays its
eggs. The predisposition of a
sheep depends on characteristics
of fleece or of conformation
which permit moisture to
penetrate or accumulate near the
skin, and the susceptible state is
leached as a final result of this.
The most important influences
are:
(a) Climate (including rain-
falfi temperature and humidity,
which affects the activity of
adult flies) and development on
the sheep, both in the breech-
region and on the body, of an
area attractive to the fly and
favorable for strike.
( b ) Type of sheep: variation
in predisposition of individuals
within the flock, and also of
different breeds, to fly-strike—
Merino as compared with British
breeds and crossbred sheep.
The interaction of these
factors determines the extent and
relative importance of fly-strike
in the various sheep-raising
districts in Australia.
Temperature influences fly-
activity and may thus directly
affect the prevalence of fly-strike.
Low temperatures retard
development of the larvae and
render adults inactive, hence the
general absence of fly in winter.
Again, during very hot weather,
there is considerably less fly-
activity. Humidity is also
important.
Main Forms of Strike
Of the primary flies which
initiate the attack, the most
important ones in Australia are
Lucilia cuprina (primary green-
blowfly), responsible for prob-
ably 80 per cent, of all strikes,
Calliphpra augur (lesser brown-
blowfly), Calliphora stygia (large
brown - blowfly) and Lucilia
sericata (European green-
blowfly).
The main secondary flies,
which are unable to initiate an
attack but follow the primary
flies, the maggots developing in
the already-struck area, are
Chnysomyia rufifacies (secondary
green - blowfly), the most
abundant, widespread and
harmful of the secondary flies,
and Chrysomyia micropogon
(steel-blue blowfly).
The different forms of blowfly-
strike are: Crutch-strike, body-
strike, head-strike, pizzle-strike
and wound-strike.
Crutch-strike: As the crutch
is only part of the breech, the
term “breech-strike” would be
preferable. This, except for
periodic waves of body-strike, is
A-type, dense stud.
C-type, dense stud.
the commonest form of strike in
Australia.
Ewes are more susceptible to
crutch-strike than wethers, the
situation of the ewe’s urethral
opening leading to frequent wet-
ting of the breech by urine. As
already noted, moisture is
essential for a strike. It has
been shown experimentally in
the insectaries at Canberra that
artificial strike may be produced
simply by wetting the fleece and
skin thoroughly and applying
newly-hatched maggots and
keeping the area moist for a few
days.
It was more difficult to
produce artificial and experi-
mental breech- strikes, their
development being greatly
influenced by the amount of
wrinkling of skin on the breech.
As a general rule, under field-
conditions the fly is not attracted
by wetness alone, but also by
the exudate resulting from the
inflammation which follows con-
tinual wetting by urine of an
area of skin, such as a breech-
wrinkle. The further decom-
position of urine, wool-grease
and exudate as a result of
bacterial activity leads to an
intensification of this inflam-
matory process. These condi-
tions on the breech of a sheep
give off an odor attractive to
the fly, and if flies are prevalent
and active strike readily follows.
When the wool is long around
the breech, or decomposition
occurs in a fold or wrinkle of
skin, the action is aggravated.
Between such wrinkles there is
commonly an accumulation of
skin-secretions and epithelial
debris, and when these are
involved in the decomposition
an area still more attractive to
the fly is readily produced. In
short-woolled or recently-
crutched sheep, or in a plain
non-wrinkled breech, the surface,
being more freely exposed to the
air and consequently to drying,
is unattractive to the fly.
Moist areas in the crutch or
in an infold of skin on the
breech-region are not caused
only by urine-soiling. Sheep
with narrow hindquarters and
their hocks approaching each
other are more prone to these
moist areas. Conformation pre-
disposes the sheep to strike, but
moisture and bacterial decom-
position make it actually suscep-
tible. Other causes of suscep-
tibility to breech-strike —by
keeping the breech-area moist
and contributing to skin-
irritation and bacterial activity
—are diarrhoea (especially if
associated with urine-soiling),
prolonged rain and heavy dews.
B'ody-strike: This includes
strikes on any part of the body
except the breech, head or
pizzle. The common sites in
order of importance are withers,
back, loin and sides. Ewes and
wethers are equally prone to
body-strike.
Body-strike occurs only in
wet, humid seasons and may
thus be severe in some years and
absent in others. The majority
of body-strikes are associated
with a disease of the wool known
as fleece-rot. This condition is
caused by the fleece being kept
continuously wet by prolonged
rain, accompanied by a warm,
humid atmosphere favorable to
bacterial growth on the skin and
in the fleece.
Fleece-rot, when active, prob-
ably attracts the fly with the
odor of bacterial decomposition
of the surface skin-scales, wool-
scales and yolk. Strike develops
because of the moisture and
readily-available food for the
maggots.
Head-strike: Usually occurs
in rams. Although it sometimes
follows wounds sustained in
fighting, the strike commonly
occurs on the wool and skin on
the base of the horns, particu-
larly if the horns are set close
to tne poll. There is here an
accumulation of skin-secretions
and much debris of epithelial
origin (kemp and cells from
surface-layers of skin) and dust.
There is frequently sufficient
moisture for a strike, but rain
or high humidity increases
susceptibility.
The cause of head-strike has
not been studied extensively, but
the increased vascularity of the
skin and its gradual change into
horn at this point could be
significant. There , appears to
be increased activity of the skin-
glands in this area. Bacterial
decomposition of keratin may
occur arid the combination of
all these factors brings about a
soggy condition attractive to the
fly and provides a suitable
environment for the maggots to
develop.
Fizzle-strike: Likely to occur
in wethers and young rams fol-
lowing balanitis or urine-soiling
and bacterial decomposition in
the wool around the prepuce.
Wound-strike: Clean, healthy
wounds are not so likely to be
struck as wounds which have
become infected as a result,
often, of the activity of small
bush-flies.
Results of Research *
About 30 years ago the
Nyngan Experiment Farm in
western N. S. Wales was set aside
for research on sheep-diseases,
but chiefly for studying the
veterinary aspect of the' sheep-
blowfly problem. The work was
later continued at the Trangie
Agricultural Experiment Station.
Much time was also spent
classifying sheep on private pro-
perties for predisposition to
blowfly-strike and making
general observations.
At Nyngan the blowfly-
problem was attacked front
several angles, but mainly to find
out why sheep were struck.
Studies were made of the changes
which occurred in affected areas
on the sheep and particularly of
processes which might have
occurred in these before they
were struck. By such means it
was hoped to discover why flies
strike certain sheep.
There had been a lot of
comment about the general
health of sheep being an
important factor in fly-strike
and, naturally, the health of
sheep on the Nyngan Experi-
ment Farm was given close
attention.
A considerable time was also
spent in measuring the hind-
quarters of the sheep, studying
malformation or injury to the
vulva, and observing excoria-
tion and granulomatous condi-
tions of the vulva and adjacent
areas. The influence of lamb-
ing, the amount of condition in
the wool, and the amount of
wrinkling of the breech-area
skin were also closely studied.
Every sheep on the farm was


m
n
S*
m#
Have a word with fear Igenf
about the new "COOPERDIEL"
f
HE WILL TELL YOU that Cooper research
has another achievement to its credit —
Dieldrin— which has proved so outstandingly
successful in blowfly control by jetting is
now available as a dip for control of lice,
keds and blowfly.
HIGHLY CONCENTRATED
One carton
(21 lbs.)
of J
Cooperdiel,;
measuring _
only 81" long,
makes a full 1,000
gallons of wash.
EASILY MIXED
Can be quickly mixed by
hand or, alternatively,
powder and water left
in bucket readily forms
paste in 15 minutes.
PERSISTENT
Residual action in the fleece
gives protection against eggs
or pupae which hatch after
dipping and against blowfly
maggots for some weeks.
.
s
WITH THESE ADVANTAGES is the added
benefit of a complete dipping kit including
bluestone for use in plunge dips to guard
against post-dipping lameness. Handy
measuring cups are provided for both dip
and bluestone.
LICE
At the rate of 2i lbs. to 1,000
gallons of water, Cooperdiel
will kill lice and will remain
active in the fleece to deal
with hatching eggs and rein-
festation for periods of up to
15 weeks.
KEDS
At the rate of 21 lbs. to 1,000
gallons of water, Cooperdiel
will kill keds and will remain
active in the fleece to deal
with hatching pupae and rein-
festation for periods of up to
9 weeks.
BLOWFLY
At the rate of 5 lbs. to 1,000
gallons of water, Cooperdiel
will give good protection
against blowfly strike for
reasonable periods.
Packed in cartons containing Cooperdiel
(25 lbs.) Copper Sulphate (to control post-
dipping lameness) and two easy-to-use
measures. The price is 130/- per carton
(Main Australian Ports).
COOPERDIEL
Cooper's new j complete ~j dipping kit
From all Cooper Agents
WILLIAM COOPER & NEPHEWS (Australia) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY
C. 172.24
ear-tagged and a card kept for
each sheep. The resident
veterinary-officer or the overseer
made a note of the ear-tag
number of every sheep struck
and this, together with any other
information about the sheep, was
later entered on the cards. A
complete record was kept of each
sheep, including the number of
times it was struck in any par-
ticular season. At the end of the
year it was possible to see from
the cards which sheep had been
struck one or more times and
which sheep had not been struck
at all.
One of the earliest observa-
tions was made on 1000 average
Merino ewes. These had been
running under similar conditions
and, the season being a good
one, strike-incidence had been
high. With the help of the
cards, the sheep were drafted
into groups according to the
number of times they had been
struck. There were five groups,
ranging from those which had
not been struck at all to the
group in which all the sheep
had been struck more than six
times. An individual examina-
tion of all the sheep indicated:
(a) Sheep most commonly
struck all showed markedly
wrinkled breeches, and this
appeared to be the constant
factor in predisposing sheep to
crutch-strike. Conversely, sheep
which had not been struck
showed plain breeches.
( b ) 111-health was a negligible
factor in predisposing sheep to
fly-strike.
(c) Malformation of the vulva
deflecting urine on to the wool
or a wrinkle rendered certain
sheep susceptible to fly-strike.
0 d ) Sheep with bad conforma-
tion of the hindquarters, with
hocks approaching each other,
were prone to crutch-strike.
The next step was to try to
classify sheep according to the
indicated predisposition to
crutch-strike. Various lots were
classified into three groups:
A, Relatively no predisposi-
tion.
B, Partially predisposed.
C, Definitely predisposed.
The chart on this page shows
the comparative incidence of
crutch-strike in classes A, B
and C over four consecutive
years. It also shows that the
classified sheep behaved con-
sistently in much the same
manner. Note, however, that
in Season 3—a period of high
rainfall—-ja greater proportion
of A-class sheep were struck
than in the earlier years of
moderate rainfall. The reason,
as already noted, was that the
breech-area was continuously
moist, thus f&voring the develop-
ment of a dermatitis with the
subsequent excoriation forming
an area attractive to the fly.
Following results obtained at
Nyngan, Merino sheep on
private properties were classified,
the owners subsequently record-
ing the strikes. Figures again
revealed the marked predisposi-
tion of C-class sheep, and the
low predisposition of A-class
sheep to crutch-strike.
Crutch-strike was also more
severe in C-class than in A-
class sheep, possibly for several
reasons, including more favor-
able environment between infolds
of skin for the maggots to
survive and establish themselves,
and the greater tendency for C-
class sheep to be restruck.
It was thus established that, in
cmc/t-strike :
(a) Sheep are not struck by
chance.
( b ) They are not struck
because of poor health in the
accepted sense —because they
are “wormy,” run-down or
affected by any of the common
sheep-diseases. During nine
years at Nyngan no sheep
needed treatment for internal
parasites.
(c) The predisposition to
crutch-strike is due to definite
physical characteristics of the
sheep itself.
(d) In the large majority of
animals this predisposition is due
to the conformation of the
breech; in a small minority to
distortion of the vulva from
accident or disease.
(e) In seasons of high rainfall
sheep not normally predisposed
to crutch-strike may become
susceptible.
(/) Those physical factors
Which determine predisposition
to crutch-strike can be recognised
by visual and manual examina-
tion, so that sheep can be
assigned to various groups
according to their degree of
predisposition.
(g) With classified sheep the
anticipated and recorded pre-
Fig. 1. —Showing comparative incidence of crutch-strike in A-, B-
and C-class sheep over four consecutive years. Note the very
low incidence in A-class sheep in average years and the great
increase in strikes in all classes, A included, in a wet year.
dispositions have been consistent.
Although graziers have
generally realised that exces-
sively-wrinkly sheep are more
prone to fly-attack than plainer-
bodied animals, they have had
no definite ideas as to why this
is so. They had not imagined
that sheep could be classified
according to their predisposition
to fly-strike simply by the extent
of wrinkling about the breech.
Sheepmen have leaned very
strongly to the idea that
individual sheep were struck
because of ill-health and,
although there is no evidence to
support them, some still believe
that the blowfly-problem can be
solved by some medicated lick.
One still hears the statement
that “flies will not attack a
perfectly healthy sheep.” An
obviously sick sheep might be
particularly prone to fly-strike—
especially if it has diarrhoea or
is particularly weak but as a
general rule ill-health is not a
factor in predisposing sheep to
strike.
Later observations by others
have shown that the incidence
of crutch-strike is higher in sheep
with tails docked very short.
Extensive trials have indicated
that tails docked medium-length
to just cover the tip of the vulva
gave the most satisfactory
results. Fly-strike on the tail
was found to be more frequent
with short C-class (wrinkly)
tails. There was a marked fall
in strike-incidence when the tails
were plainer and longer.
It was also found in many
sheep that the woolled skin from
the upper part of the tail had
been pulled down over the end
of the stump and, in some cases,
even on to the underside of the
tail. The wool from such skin
consequently grew towards the
opening of the vulva and, once
it attained sufficient length, was
inevitably soiled by urine.
When urinating, a sheep
normally lifts its tail clear, but
sheep with very short tails (having
only one joint free, or none at
all) are unable to do so. Short
docking of wrinkly-tailed sheep
allows a large tail-fold to sag
inwards from each side and meet
in the space normally occupied
by the tail stump. The deep
cleft thus formed over the end
of the tail gives cover and pro-
tection for maggots. Further,
when a wrinkly-tailed sheep has
its tail cut very short there is
commonly a dimple on the
broad surface of the tail near
its extremity—another con-
venient site for maggots.
Fleece-rot
Body - sfrike is usually
associated with fleece-rot, a
wool-disease due to the multi-
plication of bacteria on the skin
and in the overlying wool. The
organisms responsible are
present in the fleece as a result
of contamination by dust, etc.
In a dry fleece these bacteria
do not produce any ill-effect, but
when a fleece is kept wet for a
prolonged period—as in con-
tinued wet weather —the moisture
and the warmth of the body
provide the requirements for
bacterial growth. The moisture,
moreover, leads to a partial
maceration of the surface of the
skin and the multiplying bacteria
thrive on these damaged cells.
This bacterial activity causes a
degree of superficial dermatitis,
with consequent exudation from
the skin leading to a crust and
matting of the fibres.
As the wool grows, the matted
material is raised from the skin
and appears as a band across the
proximal end of the staples of the
affected parts of the fleece. Such
a band may be from |in. to
broad according to how
long the condition has been
active. With dry weather, the
wool dries and, conditions being
no longer favorable to the multi-
plication of bacteria, the sub-
sequent growth of wool is
unaffected by fleece-rot. With
further wet conditions, however,
fleece-rot may recur and cause
another band of matting. This
is due to bacteria from the first
band being carried down to the
skin, the process being readily
recognisable in certain staples.
Fleece-rot was originally de-
scribed as “water-rot,” but was
also known as “weather-stain,”
“water-stain,” “dead yolk,” and
by other names.
Because of the openness of the
fleece and immaturity, young
sheep are much more susceptible
to fleece-rot. In older animals*
quality of wool (using the term
“quality” in its widest sense) and
body - conformation *are im-
portant factors in the develop-
ment of the condition.
The relative susceptibility of
individual sheep of the same age
is determined chiefly by one,
two or all of the following:
(a) “Quality” of wool.
( b ) Conformation of withers.
(c) Density of fleece, particu-
larly over the withers.
These are in order of im-
portance. In sheep with outstand-
ing “quality” of wool (character,
handle and color) little fleece-rot
was found, but there was a high
incidence of it in sheep not so
well bred and with wool lacking
in “quality.” Harsher-woolled
sheep, whether Merino, Corrie-
dale or British-breed, may be
more prone to fleece-'rot than
softer-woolled sheep because of
the chemical composition of the
wool. Suint attracts moisture
strongly and, in part, determines
the moisture-content of the
fleece. There is a higher propor-
tion of suint in stronger wools
than in finer wools, and this may
contribute to greater bacterial
activity under humid conditions
in certain fleeces. The subject
is still being investigated.
Fleece-rot is likely to develop
when the wither-conformation
tends to retain moisture. A
pinch behind the wither and,
particularly, a so-called “devil’s
grip” form a convenient depres-
sion to hold moisture. A high
incidence of fleece-rot has been
noted in sheep with these faults.
Sheep of good conformation with
well-formed withers are not
prone to fleece-rot unless the
wool is of poor “quality.” While
slackness of wool, especially
over the withers, generally
denotes susceptibility, all such
sheep are not affected.
If the withers are of good
conformation and the wool of
good “quality” it does not
readily become affected. Fleeces
of poor “quality” are less likely
to be affected if they are dense —
the density keeps out water —but
even a dense-woolled sheep may
be affected if the wither-
conformation is bad. Such
liability will be modified, how-
ever, by the type of wool the
sheep is carrying.
Classification of sheep for
susceptibility to fleece-rot is
difficult, and can usually be
done only by one who under-
stands wool-“quality” and
thoroughly appreciates the
various types of wither-
conformation. The following
classification is suggested:
No-fault sheep —good wool
and good withers.
One-fault sheep —faulty wool
or faulty withers.
Two-fault sheep —faulty wool
and faulty withers.
Body-strike depends almost
entirely on the pre-existence of
fleece-rot, and obviously there is
a type of sheep definitely pre-
disposed to this condition.
Whether that sheep will be struck
on the body depends on the
presence of external factors con-
ducive to fleece-rot, and on the
prevalence of blowflies.
The prevention of body-strike,
therefore, depends principally on
reducing the susceptibility of
sheep to fleece-rot by selective
breeding.
It is more practical to reduce
or remove the inherent predis-
position to fly-strike than to try
to reduce the flies, although that
may be tried, too. Entomologists
worked for many years on
various forms of traps, and with
the chalcid-wasp as a parasite
(Continued on page 42)


:
K ■ .
mM.
--y-
THE
MADFARLANE
GORRIEDALES
Registered Flock No. 15,
A.C.A.
A distinguished line-bred
Flock with over 80 years’
breeding behind it. Found-
ed and exclusively main-
tained on Lincoln-Merino
blood. A prepotent line of
sires assures consistent
wool characteristics. Pro-
genitors of many Regis-
tered Flocks throughout
the Commonwealth.
Eurella Corriedales won 17
Grand Championships and
9 Reserve Championships
at Australia’s leading
Sheep Show, Sydney. At
Sydney Stud Sheep Sales:
1938, Three Stud Rams
averaged £192/10/r. 1939:
Top price for ewes,
£49/17/6.
Grand Champion Corriedale Earn, Sydney Sheep Show, 1941. This ram weighed
225 lbs. and cut 25 lbs. of wool. Appraised value of fleece £2/4/6. Shorn under
official inspection. Gordon Institute of Technology report on this ram’s fleece as
being uniform, with agreement of crimp and fineness.
Owner’s birthplace is
property where original
flock was founded.
J. B. MACFARLANE & SONS, EURELLA, CUDAL, N.S.W. :: ’Phone:
Australasian and British
Around the Breeds
The Cerriedale
By B. W. A. McGeoch
THE Corriedale is Aus-
tralia’s most sought-after
dual-purpose sheep. Apart
from its purebred qualities
as producer of wool and mutton,
crossbred Corriedales have
excelled as fat-lamb breeders.
The Corriedale originated in
CORRIEDALE
New Zealand. In the early
1860’s, James Little came from
Scotland to N.Z. with a con-
signment of British longwools
(nine rams and 22 ewes) which
had been bought by Dr. Webster
and Mr. Aitken, whose properties
in North Otago included one
named Corriedale hence the
name of the breed.
When the English sheep in-
creased in numbers, James Little,
who had been in charge of the
new immigrants, soon saw that
they were having a comparatively
hard time. He concluded that a
flock which combined the forag-
ing habits of the Merino with the
good points of the British long-
wool would be ideal for New
Zealand conditions.
Little established a flock of
inbred halfbreds, although Dr.
Webster must be given credit for
providing the sheep and the
money for the experiment.
Unluckily, all this pioneering
went for nothing. When Dr.
Webster died all his sheep,
including the Corriedales, were
dispersed. There is no record of
what became of them, and this
first attempt to breed an inbred
halfbred played no part in the
subsequent development of the
Corriedale.
In 1874 W. Davidson, manager
of the New Zealand and Aus-
tralian Ltmd Company (largest
pastoral company in the world
at that tirrle), commenced breed-
ing Corriedales on the Levels
Estate, near Timaru, South
Canterbury. Here is his own
account of the experiment:
“I started the company’s stud-
flock in 1874 with 1000 purebred
stud-ewes which I crossed with
purebred Lincoln rams, and now
we have a flock of 10,000 sheep,
of which 1500 form an inner
stud-flock. I, personally, culled
the progeny of these sheep very
heavily to secure the type arrived
at, and after I came home as
general-manager my friend C. N.
Orbell, who was manager of the
company’s Levels Estate, carried
on the work most successfully on
the lines I laid down.
“Just before I established the
Corriedale flock the Levels
st u d-M eri n o flock was
being reduced, so I secured
1000 of these pure- and
highly bred ewes and joined them
with Lincoln rams, In due time,
the young half bred ewes were
mated with rams chosen from
their own lot, the flock con-
tinuing in the future to be
entirely inbred.
“I attribute the success of the
flock to the purity of'the sheep
employed in its first foundation
and to the care exercised in
selecting from the progeny only
such sheep that fulfilled the
characteristics desired. After
nearly half a century of inbreed-
ing, the flock has lost nothing
of its size or constitution —rather
the reverse.”
Within a comparatively brief
time the Corriedale has become
world-renowned and has spread
from N!Z. and Australia (where
it was established in 1882) to
practically all of the great sheep-
raising countries in the Northern
and Southern Hemispheres.
About 35 years ago a group of
breeders formed the Australian
Corriedale Association. The
first edition of its flock-book,
published in 1922, gave
particulars of 63 studs and listed
a membership of 55, representing
all States of the Commonwealth
except Western Australia.
The 12 original office-bearers
were Senator J. F. Guthrie
(patron), D. Macfarlane (presi-
dent), T. Bowling (vice-presi-
dent), J. H. Fairfax (vice-presi-
dent), and councillors H. A. Hay,
J. B. Macfarlane, C. R. Mac-
kinnon, N. Nicolson, C. E. Prell,
W. Roberts, J. A. Sloane and
H. C. Wilson. W. Spier was the
first secretary.
Those names later became very
well known in association with
famous Corriedale studs, but
apart from such individual
efforts the original officials did
a remarkable job in furthering
the interests of the breed.
Evidence of the breed's
popularity in Australia may be
found in the 21st edition of the
flock-book, published in 1953,
and in an association report
which came out last year. Since
the association was formed, 1577
studs have been registered and
active studs in all States now
total 636, incorporating at least
163,167 rams and ewes.
As purebreds or as crossbreds,
Corriedales are prolific fat-lamb
producers. Often they top the
market as fat-lambs because of
the quality of the carcass and the
added value of a pelt of high-
class, dense wool, free from
coarse fibres and hairs.
Corriedale - breeders now
attend world-conferences a
measure of the popularity of the
breed. The first conference was
held in November, 1950, at the
Canterbury Agricultural College
in New Zealand. Last year I
represented the Australian
Corriedale Association at the
conference held at Laramie,
Wyoming, U.S.A., and saW and
heard much of interest to the
Corriedale-breeder.
There is a good market in
South America for the sale of
Corriedales. New Zealand, of
course, opened-up this market,
and the prestige of New Zealand
Corriedales is high in that part
of the world ; but there is room
for Australian enterprise, too.
Prospects for the export
of Australian Corriedales
to the United States are
not quite so good. There
are a shade over 1800
members of the U.S.A. Corrie-
dale Association, but too much
should not be made of those
figures. A number of American
breeders have very small flocks
by our standards, and the cost
of shipping a sheep to the
United States is relatively
high. But there is a
potential market for Australian
Corriedales in the United
States which could be very use-
ful to the Australian economy.
The Australian Corriedale is
a true dual-purpose breed —50
per cent, wool, 50 per cent,
mutton. The type of Corriedale
1 saw in the U.S. was 75 per cent,
mutton and 25 per cent. wool.
Any strong demand for Aus-
tralian Corriedales from the
U.S. would seem to be bound-
up with the future of wool. The
tendency of the American
farmer is to think first of mutton,
secondly of wool ; but there
may be a change.
I saw signs in the U.S. of a
renewed interest in wool on the
consuming-end. In New York I
was impressed by the popularity
of English suiting. In Washing-
ton I was surprised and
delighted to see pullovers
labelled “Australian lambswool.”
Those and other signs in the
reports on trends in world-con-
sumption of wool and synthetics
indicate a sound future for the
Australian sheep-industry, with
the Corriedale playing an increas-
ingly important part.
The Polworth
By R. D. Eastoe
THE evolution of the Polwarth
began in 1880 in the Vic-
torian district from which the
sheep takes its name. The breed
has since spread to all States of
the Commonwealth and over-
seas.
POLWARTH
The breed - which sprang
from the notion that certain
parts of western Victoria were
too cold for pure Merinos—is a
fixed threequarter-comeback, the
result of mating first-cross Lin-
coln-Merino ewes with Carr’s
Plains Merino rams. Two other
properties, Tarndwarncoort and
Eeyeuk, also worked on the
same lines.
The breed is noted for its soft-
handling, attractive wool of high
clean-scoured yield, grown on a
well-sprung, solid frame. A
spinning-quality of 58’s/60’s is
ideal, and when mated to breeds
finer or stronger than this it
“nicks” very well and transmits
its high clean-yipld to the
progeny
Although the Polwarth is
heavily fleeced, it is free from
skin-folds and any tendency to
wool-blindness. Stringiness of
staple and weakness on the
withers are not desirable, and
are not seen in well-bred types.
The present trend is for poll
sheep, and they are now by far
in the majority, although the
original studs were horned.
The breed plays an important
role in our pastoral and agricul-
tural economy. As a dual-
purpose sheep with a bias to
wool the Polwarth provides an
attractive, high-yielding come-
back fleece on a valuable carcass.
Generally, the breed has been
used in the moderate- to lower-
rainfall areas, but it has
responded excellently in the high-
rainfall districts of the N. S.
Wales south-west slopes.
The Polwarth’s soft-handling
wool is not so subject to fleece-
rot, and despite its size it eats
little more than the Merino.
With its shapely carcass, the
breed provides a good fat-lamb
rftother. Although it gives less
milk than some of the British-
breed crosses, its wool-return
and the added value of the lamb,
with the lower food-intake of the
breed, give a return per acre
worth consideration.
Registered flocks bear a tattoo
P (in circle), followed by an H
if the flock is horned, and then
the registered flock-number. If
the flock is poll the H is replaced
with a P.
In the interests of breed-purity
and flock-quality, tattoo-ear-
marking is rigidly enforced; no
sheep may be sold as Polwarths
without being so marked.
Most of our Polwarths are
in Victoria, Tasmania and
N. S. Wales, but there are studs
in all States, and the use of Pol-
warth rams is increasing, particu-
larly in Queensland.
Overseas exports have been
extensive, India and Pakistan
being among the largest buyers.
In their drive' for better cloth-
ing for their people the Govern-
ments of these countries have
imported the Polwarth to use its
finer, soft-handling wool in the
manufacture of materials,
Border Leicester
By H. R. Lomax
, . , ,
X HE Border Leicester breed
A has established itself in a
place of first importance in Aus-
tralia as a producer of crossbre
ewes to serve as mothers ot
export fat-lambs,
Border Leicesters are lineal
descendants of the Dishley
Leicesters, made famous by the
work of Robert Bakewell (1 7-6
95), of Dishley Leicestershire,
who discovered that it was un-
sound policy to send to the
butcher the an l m a_ls that
matured quickly, and to retain
for breeding only those o
slower maturity. Thls
covery extraordinary
upon the livestock economy


MODERNISE YOUR SHEARING SHED
m
:
with
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Woolpress
The Newest Woolpress for faster and easier pressing.
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
• Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
• New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
• Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
• New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings for
Faster and Easier Pressing.
AND FOR ALL FENCING WORK
DONALDS WIRESTRAINER
The quickest, lightest and most useful. Ordinary fence
can be stretched, cut and spliced in thirty seconds.
• -
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE FOR YEARS OF MANY THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP FARMERS
© One box design.
• Double purchase.
© Positive release.
• Always square.
0 Fast compression,
• Lightness.
9 Spring steel pins.
Q Compactness.
• All steel construction.
Q Two-speed gearing.
Demountable mechan-
ism.
0 Rapid 4-point door
fastener.
0 Collapsible boxes.
0 Strength and rigidity.
0 Superior pack holders.
0 Trolley wheels incor-
porated.
AUTOCHAIN
SPItCING
TOOL
“AUTOCHAIN” WIRE STRAINER
Its automatic action and efficient grips put it in a
class by itself amongst chain strainers.
ASK YOUR WOOLHOUSE OR MACHINERY MERCHANT
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'■
the British Isles. When Bake-
well died several of his neigh-
bors formed a club to buy the
Dishley sheep, with the object
of maintaining their purity.
After Leicesters were intro-
duced into Northumberland,
annual sales were held for the
disposal of both rams and ewes.
Soon there were a number of
small flocks of pure Leicester
sheep.
By about the middle of the
19th century the northern
breeders had evolved a type of
sheep different from that popu-
lar in the south, and the using
of rams bred in the south ended.
The northern sheep, which
came to be known as Border
Leicesters, had become longer in
the body, better-sprung in the
rib, more developed in the
brisket, and more graceful in the
set of the neck and head.
The first Border-stud of stand-
ing in Australia was established
by J. C. Cochrane, of Aitken-
side, Geelong (Vic.). In 1895,
Landale, of Wandook, Denili-
quin (N.S.W.), imported from
New Zealand 330 stud-ewes and
10 stud-rams, laying the founda-
tion for the New Zealand inva-
sion which began about 1907.
From that time till the late
1920’s most Border studs of
standing in Australia were built
on importations from New
Zealand, where the breed had
done a great deal to establish
the popularity of the “Canter-
bury lamb” on the English
market.
Under Australian conditions
the breed has developed to its
present peak of popularity in
dual - purpose sheep-husbandry.
It is popular for producing
quality mutton and lamb and
halfbred breeding-stock, and for
crossing for the production of
halfbred ewes and wethers. The
crosses are early-maturing, easily
fattened, and produce mutton of
high quality.
When one considers the
original home of the Border
BORDER LEICESTER
Leicester —the cold-weather dis-
tricts of Scotland and northern
England —it is remarkable
how {he breed has become
acclimatised and now thrives in
the warmer districts of the Com-
monwealth. The change has
resulted in a sheep that matures
earlier and has a larger frame.
While the Merino is our most
important breed of sheep, it is
chiefly a woolgrower. The ewes
of a drop resulting from the
mating of Border Leicester rams
with Merino ewes make excel-
lent mothers of export fat-lambs.
This is especially so when the
original Merino ewe used in the
cross is the large, plain-bodied
type of the N.S.W. western
districts.
In N.S.W. the warmer,
marginal parts of the agricul-
tural districts are ideal for
breeding mothers of fat-lambs.
Here one gets size, early-
maturity and early-mating
characteristics. Here, too, will
be found the ideal Merino mates
for the rams.
More Merino-breeders in this
marginal area should mate a
proportion of their stock with
Border Leicester rams each year.
There is a brisk demand for
Border Leicester - cross - Merino
ewes in the fat-lamb-raising
areas of the higher-rainfall
belts. The usual practice is for
the Merino ewe to be crossed
with the Border Leicester ram in
the ewe’s last year of breeding.
An insistent demand by
breeders of fat-lambs is for a
ewe that will mate early. In a
large proportion of our agricul-
tural areas breeders of fat-lambs
try to produce lambs in April-
May. With our early spring
and ripening of grass, an
autumn-born lamb is almost a
necessity. The half-breed ewes
produced by mating Border
Leicester rams and large-framed
Merino ewes will provide the
type of mother needed.
Following the wool boom in
1950 and 1951, many breeders
of Border Leicesters turned to
Merinos, but, realising the
value of the Border Leicester
crossed with the Merino as a
fat-lamb mother, they have been
making heavy demands for the
rams. This demand at present
cannot be met.
Value of the Border Leicester
to the fat-lamb industry is
shown by the successes gained
in competitions run by the
Royal Agricultural Society and
the Australian Meat Board,
when major awards have been
made to lambs from Border
Leicester-cross ewes.
Dorset Horns
By G. R. M. Smith
TTHE Dorset Horn is one of the
*- purest breeds of British
sheep still in existence. English
authorities consider that no
other breed has had any influ-
ence on its development, as the
Dorset Horn has been evolved,
by selection only, within the old
breed known as Wiltshire Notts,
which used to roam the downs
of Dorset.
The Dorset Horn was intro-
duced into Australia, originally,
because of two main charac-
teristics: its extremely rapid
rate of growth and early matur-
DORSET HORN
ity, and its ability to mate and
breed at any time of the year.
It is a Downs-type, pink-
skinned breed. Purity of blood
is undoubtedly the reason for its
prepotency, a major factor in
producing fat-lambs.
Linked with the history of- the
Dorset Horn in Australia is the
Lamb-breeders in late, cold
districts have found that they
can lamb their ewes in the early
spring and finish them for
market before feed dries in the
summer, whereas with slower-
growing breeds of lambs they
have found it necessary to lamb
(Continued on page 48)
achievement of Australian stud-
masters in developing from the
English type a breed more suit-
able for Australian conditions.
The English Dorset is closer-
horned, longer-bodied, generally
weaker through the girth, and,
by Australian standards, has a
longer, unattractive neck. It is
not so low-set as the Australian
type, it has a less symmetrical
carcass, and it hasn’t the same
loin or twist. It also has a
tendency to lay-on excessive fat,
and to a hairiness and general
hardness of skin.
This, then, was the animal
from which the Australian
breeders evolved the Australian
type of sheep. On the credit
side, the sheep had the already
noted extremely rapid rate of
growth, a grand flow of milk,
and ability to breed at any time.
Under Australian conditions,
this quick growth of lambs was
important. In many districts
seasons are short, and at times
grass has to be developed
quickly after a short spring.


NOW- A Fountain Pen
that "BREATHES"
the wonderful NEW
Onoto 99
Instant Starting ... No Flooding
No Leaking ... No Drying Up
The new Onoto "99” starts writing the instant
its nib touches paper. Thanks to a special
“breathing” system, the ink flow is perfectly
controlled always, giving you fast, smooth, clean
writing all the time.
—and a choice of nibs to suit
your hand exactly
There’s an Onoto “99” nib to suit every style
of writing from finest to broadest. And because
the nib unit is easily changed the one
that suits your hand exactly can be
fitted right at die counter where you
buy. See the new’Onoto “99”
at any good store.
3
7
' 4A ®
6, * m ,
ot°
On
Qnoto “99” Pen and
Pencil Set. Attractive
Gift Box .. 757-
Other Onoto Sets from
50/-
. ■ -
HQ5'
New "Breathing"
Fine tube inside
barrel feeds air,
controls ink
flow exactly.
II
New Filler
Conceeded filler
trigger. Easy to
use. Quick, posi-
tive action.
New Easy-to-
Change Nib
Can be changed
when you buy
to give you the
nib that suits
you best.
ONOto
(m
In Black, Blue,
Green, Maroon or
Grey. Gift Boxed.
Other Onoto Pens
from 27/6
noto
PENS, PENCILS
BALL PENS
Manufacturers: Norman Baker & Longhurst Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
6.0.83
Strategy and Tactics
Worm Parasites of Sheep
By HUGH McL. GORDON
IN Australia there are about
30 different species of worms
attacking sheep, and most of
them are capable of causing
considerable damage. The won-
der is that any sheep survive and
that the survivors continue to
grow wool and produce meat.
The fact is that the parasite has
a difficult time. Everything is
against it, from the weather and
the hand of man to the resistance
and immunity developed by the
sheep.
Charles Elton, the ecologist
(an ecologist specialises in the
study of living organisms in
relation to their environments),
emphasises that under “natural”
conditions parasites seldom in-
crease sufficiently to damage
their hosts seriously, and rarely
kill them. When man domestic-
ated animals he aided the
parasites in many ways, chiefly
by confining the host-animals to
small areas which then became
heavily contaminated with the
eggs of the worm-parasites. In
this way the worm-burden
became intolerable and parasitic
diseases occurred.
The Harm They Do
The different worm-parasites
have different habitats and
different habits and may damage
the sheep in a great variety of
ways. There are bloodsucking
worms, such as the barber’s-
pole worm ( Hcemonchus con-
tortus) and the liver-fluke
C Fasciola hepatica), which bleed
the sheep to death as surely
as if its throat were cut
(though, of course, it’s a slower
process). There are tissue-
feeding worms such as the large-
mouthed bowel-worm
(Chabertia ovina), which sucks a
piece of the lining of the bowel
into its mouth, digests it and
moves on to repeat the process
day in day out for weeks at a
time.
There are wandering worms
which burrow in the tissues,
feeding as they go and leaving
a trail of damage. Among them
are the young liver-flukes which
may wander in the liver for
many weeks before entering the
bile-ducts to grow to maturity,
and the young stage of the
bladder-worm cyst ( Cysticercus
tenuicollis ), which also wanders
in the liver before settling down
to become a cyst attached to the
liver, intestines or caul. The
young stages of some intestinal
worms wander in the tissues —
for example, the larvae of the
nodule-worm (CEsophagosto-
mum columbianum ) enter the
bowel-wall and may remain
there for weeks or months giv-
ing rise to the “nodules” from
which the worm gets its common
name. The larvae of the small
brown stomach-worm (Oster-
tagia) burrow into the lining of
the fourth stomach and may
remain there for many weeks.
The larvse of Strongyloides (it
has no common name) burrow
into the feet of sheep when the
ground is muddy and may carry-
in the bacteria responsible for
footrot. Larva; of the sheep-
hookworm ( Bunostomum ), a
rare parasite in Australia, also
burrow through the skin.
The precise way in which the
Spraying a swamp where the intermediate host-snail of liver-fluke
is found. Either bluestone or copper-pentaehlorphenate may
be used.
black-scour worm (!Tricho-
strongylus) damages its host is
not known, but the worms inter-
fere with digestive processes and
reduce the amount of protein
and certain minerals absorbed
by the sheep. Infested sheep lose
their appetite and may eat only
half their normal requirement,
thereby starving themselves.
Some worms cause scouring
with consequent loss of nourish-
ment because the food does not
remain in the bowel long enough
for complete digestion. The
black-scour worm is the chief
offender, but young sheep may
suffer considerable loss of con-
dition and interference with
growth of body and wool before
scouring begins.
The Life-cycle
Only when we know what
the worms are doing and are
about to do can we prevent
heavy worm-burdens building-
up in the sheep.
The life-cycles of most of the
worms found in the stomach and
intestines of sheep are simple.
There are male and female
worms in about equal propor-
tions. The females lay eggs,
often in enormous numbers —
the barber’s-pole worm lays
about 10,000 eggs every 24 hours
for weeks at a time. The eggs
pass in the droppings and if
temperature and moisture are
favorable a young worm or
larva develops inside the egg
within 24 hours. The larva
hatches-out, feeds, moults, feeds
again and becomes infective for
sheep in about seven days. The
infective larva is enclosed in a
protective sheath and does not
feed but must live on the food
stored-up from its activities in
earlier stages.
The infective larva does not
develop any further until it is
swallowed by a sheep. It then
sheds its sheath and grows
quickly into an adult worm.
One egg produces one larva
and each larva produces one
worm. Multiplication comes
through the tremendous egg-
laying rate. In a heavy infesta-
tion with barber’s-pole worm
where there may be 3000
females, the daily egg-output
from the sheep will be about 30
million.
Some parasites have , more
complicated life-cycles, with
wandering stages in the body
before they settle down to
mature.
The life-cycle can be divided
into two stages and two phases.
There is the parasitic stage in the
host-animal, the contamination-
phase where eggs are passed in
droppings into the pasture, the
free-living stage when eggs and
larva; are developing in drop-
pings and in the pasture, and the
infection-phase when the larvae
are swallowed by the grazing
animal. An attack must be
launched at each of the stages
and phases to control the
parasite effectively.
Biotic Potential
The biotic potential is the
capacity of a living organism to
increase and occupy all of the
possible places which will pro-
vide food and shelter. The para-
site is beset on all sides by
unfavorable conditions. Too
much heat, too much cold or too
much dryness will kill the eggs
and larvae; the host-animal
may develop resistance and
immunity ; and the hand of man,
armed with poisonous drenches,
is constantly directed against the
adult worms. An astute and
good manager who knows the
ways of worms and weather can
make it very difficult for the
worms to complete their life-
cycle.
The barber’s-pole worm has
a tremendous potential because
it produces enormous numbers
of eggs, but this is offset to some
extent by the relative lack of
resistance of the eggs and larvae
to cold, dryness and sunlight.
The black-scour worm is a poor
egg-layer—only 200 a day —but
there is compensation in the
strong resistance of the eggs and
larvae to cold and dryness. The
nodule-worm lays large numbers
of eggs, but they, too, are killed
by cold and dryness; the com-
pensating factor is the long
sojourn of the young worms in
the bowel-wall, where they may
overwinter, and where they can-
not be attacked by drenches.
In general, there must be a
succession of favorable condi-
tions before a parasite can
attain the large numbers re-
quired to produce serious
diseases in the host-animal. The
most important implications of
the biotic potential, however, are
that the whole of the activity
of the parasite is directed to-
wards completing its life-cycle
as many times and as quickly
as possible, and that there is
seldom any relaxation of its
activity. Control - measures,
therefore, must be continuous.
Why Not More Outbreaks?
The biotic potential and a little
simple arithmetic show that
there is an enormous contamina-
tion of pastures with worm-eggs
—so great that one wonders
why there are not more out-
breaks of parasitic disease. The
chief controlling factors are
climate and the development of
resistance by the sheep.
Although the eggs and larvae
have well-developed means of
protection they are all vulnerable
to severe dryness and direct sun-
light. Some species have little
resistance to cold, and even the
relatively mild winters in the
tableland-areas of N. S. Wales
are too cold for the develop-
ment of the eggs of barber’s-
pole worm and nodule-worm.
The larval stage which hatches
from the egg, and the next larval
stage before it acquires a pro-
tective sheath are particularly
vulnerable to dryness, and will
not survive except in wet
weather.
Outbreaks rarely occur unless
there has been wet weather.
Several days of rain and
thorough saturation of the
ground are generally needed be-
fore the eggs will hatch and com-
plete their development to the
infective larvae. If the weather
dries-up while the first-stage and
second-stage larvae are develop-
ing during the three or four days
after the eggs have been passed
by the sheep it is unlikely that
many infective larva; will result.
The association between rain-
fall and worm-infestation is so
well established that tactical


The Tractor YOU asked for...
538®
«
m
* J
L W V
m
m
SAYS Mr. 808 CHAMBERLAIN, Managing Director, Chamberlain Industries
“We knew that farmers all over Australia were looking for a VERSATILE medium
horsepower tractor. But, before we went into production we conducted an Australia-
wide survey. From Queensland’s canefields to the wheatfields of the West we asked:
‘What features must your next tractor have?’ From your answers we’ve reaped the reward
of a great new medium tractor . . . the 45 Diesel ‘Champion’ . . . incorporating every
feature you asked for in the most versatile farm power unit ever developed.”
75 TO 100% OF IMPLE-
MENT WEIGHT APPLIED TO
REAR WHEELS AS REQUIRED,
WITH SINGLE CONTROL
LEVER :
(CONTROL LEVER.
7/J
Chamberlain "Traction Boost" gives constant depth of U\l«e o n undulating rrtm: n A]^E a 'SE?
implement depth setting wheel still carries enough weight to make it faithfully fpllow the
ground surface. Thus wheel slip is reduced, traction BOOSTED, ena mins iuu power or
engine to be utilised at low speeds as well as high speeds.
USEFUL RANGE OF GEAR SPEEDS
■
V
- $
", A
r*''
. ..
-■ :
1
I
s
8 m 8 m
THE NEW, LOW PRICED
135310
1H sir
STANDARD EQUIPMENT:
Live Power Take-off
Belt Pulley
14 x 28 rear and 7.50 x 18 front 6 ply tyres
Electric Lights & Starting'
Hour meter
Ch
Front Bumper Bor Spark Arrestor
OPTIONAL EXTRAS:
Double Acting Hydraulics with Traction Boost
Three Point Linkage
Doors, Windscreen and Canopy.
CHAMBERLAIN INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
I
W.A.: Welshpool Road, Welshpool.
N.S.W.: Parramatta Road & Ostend
Street, Lidcombe.
VIC.: Salmon Street. Port Melbourne,
and Princes H'way, Springvale.
Q’liD.: Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 291-301
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
S.A.: 12 Chancery Lane, Adelaide.
TAS.: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72
Argyle Street, Hobart; 139
York Street, Launceston.
drenching is broadly recom-
mended at about three weeks
after a good rain has extended
over several days and really
saturated the ground. In the life-
cycle of most worms it is three
weeks from the time the infective
larva is swallowed until th&
worms have matured and begun
to lay eggs. If the worms are
killed then there will be little
fi;esh contamination of pastures
from the new infestation. If the
drenching is done within 15-20
days there will be many
immature worms present, and
they are more difficult to kill
than the adults.
Sheep develop resistance to
worm-parasites. Often it is so
strong that they can be dosed
with millions of worm-larvae
without fresh infestations
arising. Research has just begun
to sort-out some of the very
complex relationships, and as
yet we cannot apply much of
our knowledge of resistance to
the control of parasitic diseases.
Resistance develops in differ-
ent ways with different worms.
Sheep acquire a very strong
resistance to black-scour worm
as a result of early infestation,
and most young sheep become
resistant by the time they are
18 months old. But age alone
does not confer resistance.
Sheep raised worm-free in pens
until they were four years old
were then given their first
experience of worm-infestation
and were as susceptible as lambs
only a few'weeks old.
Resistance to barber’s-pole
worm is a very different story,
and one often sees what is called
“self-cure.” This occurs when
sheep already infested pick up
another big dose of larvae ; the
adult worms are killed and
passed out of the stomach, but
the new infestation develops.
Eventually the sheep tend to
develop a resistance, when they
may be given large doses of
larvae without infestation. The
resistance is not a strong one,
however, and may break down
within a few months.
It is rare to see sheep over 18
months suffering from black-
scour worm, but barber’s-pole
worm has little respect for age,
although young sheep tend to
suffer most. Heavy infestations
with barber’s-pole worm are
common in ewes during lambing
—particularly in spring and
early autumn —and not only kill
ewes but reduce the milk-supply
of the survivors so that their
lambs are starved. The ewes
also contaminate the pastures
heavily—one ewe may pass
Drenching in a narrow race with
an automatic “gun,” using the
principle of the McMaster tube.
30,000,000 eggs every day—and
lambs cannot escape heavy infes-
tations as soon as they begin to
graze.
It is generally accepted that
there is a close relationship be-
tween resistance and nutrition,
but the precise connection is far
from clear. There is considerable
doubt whether a high level of
nutrition will prevent a heavy
infestation, but there is no doubt
that it offsets the effects of one
already established. It is also
worth noting that, on a good
pasture, sheep may spend less
time grazing, may graze over a
smaller area and may not graze
so close to the ground, all of
which reduce the number of
larvae which may be swallowed.
During an Outbreak
Outbreaks of barber’s-pole-
worm infestation can develop
very quickly because of the
tremendous biotic potential of
the parasite. On the other hand,
infestations with black-scour
worm tend to develop rather
slowly. This difference, however,
may be more apparent than real,
because there are such big differ-
ences in the symptoms. Severe
barber’s-pole-worm infestation
causes anaemia, and sheep may
be bled to death in a few weeks. •
they show obvious symptoms
when driven or when examined
closely.
Sheep infested with black-scour
worms gradually fade away,
losing condition slowly over
several weeks. Scouring may
not be an early symptom, and
the scour may not be “black” if
the sheep are on dry feed.
When an outbreak is begin-
ning the sheep are picking up
large doses of larvae, often over
a few days, and the larvae are
growing rapidly into adults and
damaging the part of the intes-
tinal tract where they live.
As soon as the worms mature,
heavy contamination of the pas-
tures begins, and, if weather-
conditions are suitable, there will
be large numbers of infective
larvae within a week. Some
figures from a field-trial at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) illustrate the
rapidity with which an outbreak
can develop from a relatively,
light infestation. At the end of
winter the average count of
barber’s-pole-worm eggs in a
flock of 40 weaners was 375 per
gramme, representing an
extremely light infestation. The
way in which the infestation
increased may be seen frofti the
following figures:
An outbreak developed in 75
days, by which time the sheep
were dying from anaemia.
What happens with drenching
during an outbreak, when it
often seems that the treatment
has failed completely?
The reasons why drenches fail
in outbreaks are well known
and depend on the type of drench
and the general “state of affairs”
at the time. Certain drugs are
effective only when swallowed
into the fourth stomach direct
(these include arsenic, nicotine,
bluestone, tetrachlorethylene),
and drenches are usually much
less effective against the young
than against the mature worms.
In outbreaks the sheep are
heavily infested and harbor
many young worms; pastpres
are being contaminated heavily
and continuously, and reinfesta-
tion is taking place. A drench
that kills 70 per cent, of a burden
of 20,000 black-scour worms
leaves 6000, which will not only
retard recovery but continue to
contaminate pastures with
600,000 eggs per day. Much
higher efficiency is essential to
stop an outbreak.
In an outbreak one needs a
drench which kills a high pro-
portion of worms in every
sheep, including immature
worms. It is essential to repeat
drenching to kill worms which
were immature at the first treat-
ment and to kill worms picked
up since. The timing of repeated
treatments depends largely on
weather conditions. Every
attempt should be made to treat
15-20 days after good falls of
rain. If rain continues over
long periods drenching must also
be continued at intervals of
about 15-20 days—not forgetting
the final drench after the last
fall of rain.
Wet Seasons
Since the free-living stages of
the parasites on pastures depend
Day 1 (Aug. 13) 375 eggs per gramme or 300,000 eggs per day
„ 29 (Sept. 10) 3,292 „ „ „ „ 2,633,600 „ „ „
„43 (Sept. 24) 5,323 „' „ „ „ 4,258,400 „ „ „
„68 (Oct. 19) 6,125 „ „ „ „ 4,900,000 „ „
„ 75 (Oct. 26) 17,186 „ „ „ „ 13,748,800 „ „
on rainfall for development and
survival, longer wet periods
mean that a greater number of
eggs and larvae will survive and
reach the sheep to build-up
heavy infestations. Several wet
seasons in succession give the
parasites a tremendous boost.
Often there may be little trouble
in the first year simply because
the number of parasites is still
relatively small, but in the
second year the parasites have a
flying-start and quickly reach
dangerous numbers. This
sequence of events may take
place even on the N.S.W. western
plains and slopes, where worm-
infestation is not generally of
great importance.
Of the current increase in
practically all species of worms
in eastern Australia, two are of
special significance. The nodule-
worm is found in summer-
rainfall regions, especially in
southern and central Queens-
land, and on the northern table-
lands and north-western slopes
in N.S.W. It is usually of
serious significance only in the
higher-rainfall areas, but in
recent years heavy infestations
have been seen in sheep well out
into the north-west in N.S.W.,
and it is likely that this parasite
will cause serious economic loss,
through unthriftiness, in a very
high proportion of young sheep
throughout the north and north-
west during the next few years.
Control-measures should be
adopted against the nodule-
worm throughout N.S.W. from
the Hunter Valley north to the
border and out into'the north-
west at least as far as Mungindi.
Southern Queensland, east from
St. George, and the Central
Highlands are the other regions
where full control-measures
should be applied.
The second parasite which has
increased enormously following
the wet years is the liver-fluke.
There are many more swamps
and springs where the inter-
mediate host-snail can live, and
until they dry-up with the return
(<Continued on page 64)


CENTURY'S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
1
2
3
4
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You can see the acid level at a glance.
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible 'at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency. % v
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
YEARS
mm
>
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CFG 227.
0
0
r
a
ill
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
Vi
Gtouss Un^uXcCled,
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS, TRUCKS. TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES. RADIO.
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery'Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd'., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, 1 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd,, Darwin.


See Australia*s most famous breeds
SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW
Sydney Showground, May 30-June 2
A display of considerable interest and education value for
all, the Sydney Sheep Show has the world’s finest display of
sheep and includes Australia's most famous breeds. There
are special classes for Junior Farmers and fleeces.
MANNEQUIN PARADES of all-wool clothing—Sportswear,
Evening and Day Wear and Men's Wear—will be held twice
daily at 11.45 a.m. and 3 p.m. in the NEW Handicrafts
Pavilion from Wednesday, 30th May, to Tuesday, sth June.
On Friday, Ist June, afternoon parade will be at 4 p.m.
There will also be a fine display of fleeces and woollen goods
in the same pavilion. The pavilion will be open on the
Queen's Birthday holiday—4th June.
SHEARING DEMONSTRATIONS will be held from 31st
May to 2nd June.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS, Novice and Championship, 30th May
and Ist and 2nd June.
SPECIAL LAMB CARCASS GRADING DEMONSTRA-
TION, conducted by Australian Meat Board, will be held
on 31st May at 2.30 p.m.
DOGS AND CATS shows will be held on Saturday, 2nd June.
5/- ADULTS (All Sections), 2/- CHILDREN.
N.S.W. SHEEP BREEDERS' ASSOCIATION
SS2
JSIj,.
1 r®
&v
KH
i
>£Ag
»
r~** j*
V*
*0
*
**
r»*
%
**
©
o^e'g
£
*9
o
o
*V
t>H
S£?
esr-
rffcV
v>
6
a*' 1
<3
►>«
I
n/
vl‘
ftl
35
s*
81.5
rVS
• ■■ ? V
aw-.ufiwiw*. imuuhu- >w«wi' i
_•.', ..-, .; • v ■ ■ ■■ - • • ‘ • ' ' - " ' ‘ ' . ’■■ ’ ' :
Hotel Riverino, Hamilton, N.Z., in the heart of the lush
Waikato dairy country. A typical example of D.B. Hotels.
' Cutting from the
NEW ZEALAND HERALD, 4tb April, 1955.
Beyond Reproach
Sir, —My wife and I, who .are on
the return stage of a world tour, leave
for the United" Kingdom, via America,
after a fortnight’s delightful stay in
New Zealand.
_ We wish to say that the courtesy,
civility, co-operation and general high
standard of the hotels in which we
have stayed have been beyond
reproach. Before leaving Australia, we
were warned to expect very “rough
and ready” treatment. Just the
reverse has been the case.
London. D-- T. T
Cometo New Zealand-
and enjoy hospitality at
its best at the
D.B. HOTELS
The Hotels listed above are part of the chain of
hospitality throughout New Zealand's North Island,
owned and operated by Dominion Breweries Ltd.,
Queen's Arcade, Auckland.
affected with grass-seed, and the
shearer does not cut the wool up
so much in getting it off.
Good body-conformation and
good mutton-qualities are very
important. Broad shoulders,
nicely rounded, with well-sprung
ribs, broad brisket and deep
body with plenty of heart- and
lung-space are essential.
A sheep should stand four-
square, level on top and under-
neath. No swampy backs or flat
sides (sheep of this class seldom
do a flock any good). Also, be-
ware of sheep with turkey-hocks,
cat-hams, or depressed necks.
Reject sheep with overshot or
undershot mouths, narrow faces,
or thin, papery or deformed ears.
Keep a sharp lookout for any
deformities, particularly of the
ears. One of the first signs of
constitutional deterioration is
to be found in this part of the
sheep.
Examine the ears of all your
stud-rams and flock-rams care-
fully, and cull any that you find
with any little appendages or
small teats in their ears. These
will be found down near the
opening, just inside. They vary
in size from a little bigger than
a match-head to the size of the
first joint of your little-finger.
I have had many breeders (who
have been breeding from other
studs) apply to me for rams to
correct this fault.
It is essential that all breeding-
ewes—as well as rams—should
be examined for this defect.
Such sheep should not be bred
from, but culled before they have
lambs, and sold for slaughter. I
consider it is not fair to a buyer
to sell him sheep with this fault.
It will only give the breeder’s
stud a bad name and assist in
undermining our great national
wealth.
Now, with regard to the cover-
ing of the sheep, one of the first
things I set about doing was to
increase the length of staple in
the fine-wool sheep. The staple
on most of the Tasmanian and
Mudgee fine-wool studs at that
time had become too short, and
also too wrinkly. The studs had
followed the Vermont fashion to
a large extent.
I could not find any stud-sires
to suit my purpose, so I selected
long-staple rams and ewes within
my stud and joined them. I was
very careful not to sacrifice
either quality or fineness of fibre,
and it was not long before 1 had
a stud producing a to 4in.
staple of from 66’s to 74’s wool-
count, of high-yielding wool.
This caused great controversy
at the Sydney Sheep Show about
25 years ago, many breeders
contending that fine-wool sheep
could not possibly grow such a
length of staple in 12 months.
Finally this argument was settled
by having each exhibitor’s sheep
intended for show the following
year inspected and labelled with
the association's ear-tag after
they were shorn.
I strongly supported this move
for show-sheep not to be allowed
to carry more than a half-inch
length of wool on June 1, before
the show. It has now long since
been recognised that Merryville-
blood fine-wools grow a long
staple, and this is * known
throughput the wool-trade as
the Merryville-type.
Another thing I set about
doing right from the start was
to eliminate wool-rot from the
stud- and flock-sheep. I had
observed that sheep of really
good-quality wool were not
subject to wool-rot, no matter
how much rain fell, or what the
conditions were.
Acting on this observation,
and keeping the quality of wool
up to a high standard, I culled
every sheep (no matter how
good it appeared to be other-
wise) that developed this fault.
I soon discovered that I was
breeding a class of sheep that
was immune to this scourge. In
my opinion it is one of the worst
faults in Merinos, and is respon-
sible for hundreds of thousands
of sheep being lost annually
from blowfly-strike on the body
of the sheep.
The odor of the decomposed
yolk in the wool on the sheep is
very attractive to the fly, which
blows the sheep all over, and the
unfortunate animal, if not found
and treated, dies in a very short
time.
A great many theories have
been put forward as to the cause
of wool-rot (or, in other words,
dead yolk in the wool) while it
is still on the sheep’s back. Some
people think it is lack of density
in the wool, others say it is
humidity after heavy, soaking
rain that causes the trouble.
Others put forward the theory
that bacteria are the responsible
agent. All these suppositions are
wrong, in my opinion. Density
of the fleece will not prevent it
at dll, because no wool can be
so dense that it will not let in
the rain.
We all know that continuous
rain and humid conditions will
cause wool-rot to appear in cer-
tain classes of sheep, and that
this condition creates a breeding-
ground for bacteria, which
causes staining of different
colors in the wool. But this does
not get over the fact that whole
flocks of sheep in the same area
have no wool-rot at all.
In my opinion the real reason
is lack of quality in the wool.
Good-quality wool is better
serrated, and has a higher-grade
yolk, which does not dissolve,
but stays in the yolk-cells and
remains healthy under any con-
ditions.
As we cannot do anything
about the weather, there is only
one solution. Breed a better-
quality wool.
One more very important
thing that has helped to bring
the Merryville sheep up to the
present standard is this: I
observed that some sheep in the
stud would get plain and
straight in the wool when they
were five or six years old, while
other sheep would retain their
crimp and quality until they died
of old age. So I retained those
breeding-ewes which retained
their crimp and quality while
ever they would rear a lamb
(and I have known them to rear
lambs until they were over 20
years of age).
I was particularly severe in
culling any ewe carrying the
class of wool that would not
retain its character with age. I
endeavored to get them all out
in the first culling, before they
left any offspring to perpetuate
the trouble.
Another thing I eliminated
from my stud in the early days
was devil’s-grip. I observed
that some sheep went right
through their lives without any
sign of it, while others developed
it as soon as they got a bit of
age in them. I have seen stud-
ewes purchased from very
prominent studs and when they
were nine or 10 years old
practically every one of them
developed devil’s-grip. Pure
Merinos should not do this, and
the fault can be eliminated from
the flock completely by proper
culling of the young breeders
before they are joined. A care-
ful classer can usually tell those
sheep which have this weakness.
It is also advisable to be quite
certain that your working rams
are bred from ewes that are
entirely free from any suspicion
of this fault.
With regard to correct mating,
this is, of course, the most
important thing in stud-breeding.
It should be the aim of every
reputable stud-breeder that the
sheep he breeds and sells to
others should breed true to type,
whether they be superfine, fine,
medium or strong. To achieve
this end there should not be a
variation of more than a very
few counts between the wool on
the sire and on the dam mated
with him.
To correct other minor faults,
be sure the sire does not carry
the same fault as the ewes you
join him with. My father used
to sum it up in a very few
words: “Never put two faults
together.” If you do this you
will increase and perpetuate the
fault. Always select a number of
your best stud-ewes, and join
them with your best stud-rams,
as a top-stud. Put a distinctive
mark on the progeny, and when
selecting your young stud-sires,
give them preference, if of any-
thing like equal merit.
The Merryville of today con-
sists of several holdings, with a
total area of some 23,500 acres,
all of it in, or adjacent to, the
Yass district. The whole of this
area has been topdressed with
superphosphate for many yeafs,
and is sown with sub.-clover,
with the exception of between
300 and 400 acres under lucerne.
Some of the pasture has been
sown with perennial-rye grass as
well as the clover (I was first in
the district to establish sub.-
clover). Yass suits sub.-clover,
and without a doubt it has
revolutionised the carrying-
capacity and fattening-capacity
of land in this district. It has
also done a lot to prevent
erosion. Merryville land, before
it was pasture-imprdved, would
not carry a sheep to the acre.
Now it will carry the equivalent
of three sheep to the acre. '
We only run about two sheep
to the acre on it, but make up
the rest of the stocking with
well-bred cattle. We run about
1500 breeding beef-cows, and I
have fattened and sold as many
as 1400 bullocks in a year! They
qre all run in the sheep-
paddocks, and help to keep the
surplus grass down. I made this
possible by putting down about
60 bores, erecting windmills for
same, and pumping the water
into dams alongside, which are
k ept f u |j a jj the year round, so
ensuring a permanent supply of
water for both cattle and sheep.
My intention is to stock these
dams with fish for station-use.
Thousands of tons of lucerne-
hay and -silage are stored away
for use in time of drought.
©


MEN CAN ERECT THIS FRAMEWORK IN 2 HOUR!!
Prefabricated
Tubular-steel
Garage or Shed,
18ft. x 10ft. x 7ft.
© NO SPECIAL TOOLS OR SKILLED
LABOUR REQUIRED
© BIG SAVINGS IN ERECTION COSTS
• PROOF AGAINST FIRE AND WHITE
ANTS
Consigned to you for immediate trouble-free assembly, a HIGH - FLY TUBULAR
STEEL-FRAMED BUILDING is your easiest way of acquiring economical space. Light but
amazingly sturdy. Each frame delivered with all nuts and bolts, etc. We can quote on any type or
size of PREFABRICATE** TUBULAR-STEEL BUILDINGS including haysheds machinery
sheds, workshops or trusses for bush posts.
"MACSHIEL" RURAL WORKER ACCOMMODATION
• PREFABRICATED IN GALVANISED
PANELS.
• INSULATED AGAINST HEAT OR
COLD IN ROOF AND WALLS.
• PROOF AGAINST FIRE, WHITE
ANTS, DRY ROT AND VERMIN.
• APPROVED BY DEPARTMENT OF
LABOUR AND INDUSTRY.
• NO MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
• LOWER INSURANCE PREMIUMS.
O
<
L%\\\\\\\V
•Jt
"1
3
■rf*
mum
'¥
amm
W 3
MANUFACTURERS OF
High-Fly clothes hoist. High-Fly tubular steel tank
stands and High-Fly automatic poultry feeder.
of transport if required.
METHOD OF CONNECTING MEMBERS
jftSfc
ONLY A SPANNER REQUIRED
PRICES HIGH-FLY PREFABRICATED
TUBULAR-STEEL GARAGE
For particulars and quotes for buildings or rural
workers’ accommodation, MAIL THIS COUPON
To CLEVELAND ENGINEERING AND
WELDING CO., PTY. LTD.,
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney
Cleveland Engineering (Tamworth) Pty. Ltd.,
145 Bridge Street, Tamworth, N.S.W.
Please send me free particulars of High-Fly
Tubular-Steel Buildings.
NAME .. * •• — ••••
ADDRESS •••••• • .*-• • • • • • *•
Size and
Type Required •. .. •
In the Peppin Country
VISIT TO BOONOKE
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
MAC FALKINER, by
way of answering a
question about Boo-
noke, said “Why don’t
you come and see for
yourself? We start shearing on
Monday.”
Having an old interest in the
Peppin country—Boonoke lies in
the heart of it—l was more than
pleased to accept.
I said ap old interest. One
gets a fan- idea of what sort
of country it was, before planes
and motor-cars and refrigeration,
from a petition addressed to the
Governor by Riverina squatters
in 1859:
We beg of you, that you should
cause to have installed public water-
ing places on that immense plain
known as The Old Man, from Laing’s
Comer to the Billabong, which is
now, and has been for years past, the
terror of overlanding dealers of
stock, there being no water at
ordinary seasons on the said plain for
50 miles. In 1858 a shepherd, follow-
ing his stock, died of thirst, and his
sheep with him.
The Peppin is now the
dominant strain of Merino in
Australia, and has also influenced
the development of the Merino
in South Africa. There are now
so many Peppin-blood studs that
the tendency is to accept them
as part of the landscape, as one
accepts the fact that the Western
Riverina is wool-country. A
letter to the “Australasian,” in
1881, gives a different slant:
The writer can remember a meet-
ing of about a dozen of the earliest
settlers in Victoria, held at Richard
Goldsbrough’s wooden store in
William-street in the early ’forties,
when some wool from across the
Murray was examined. It was short
in staple, coarse, dry, tender, and
of a deep red color. It had not one
good quality to recommend it, and the
persons present all shook their heads
and sagely predicted that wool would
never be grown in the Riverina.
And a glimpse of the 1860’s,
in Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh’s
After Many Days: —
In 1867 or 1868, when attending
what I think was the first show held
at Jerilderie, well known as the scene
of one of the Kelly Gang’s exploits,
Joe Weir, who used to manage the
Yanko Station, asked me to go down
to a bend on the Colombo Creek to
look at some rams which were for
sale. We both summed them up as
not at all what was wanted. They
had good frames, but the wool was
so coarse that we concluded there
must be a longwool cross. More-
over, it was open, faulty on top of the
rump, the belly wool was light and
there was not much wool on the
points. At that time those among
us who fancied ourselves as judges of
sheep went for the sheep well covered
all over with wool to the toes. The
highest-class Tasmanian of the Sir
Thomas type and the Cox and
Havilah Mudgee sheep were our
standard. Consequently, these sheep
on the bend of the creek were con-
demned by all the best judges at the
Jerilderie show. They were the
property of G. Peppin and Sons, of
Wanganella.
The Peppin brothers, George
and Fred, were Englishmen
whose father had kept Merinos
from George IV’s flock. They
settled first at Mansfield in Vic-
toria ; when they bought
Wanganella “in the Riverina
district of New South Wales,”
“and with it the sheep,” from
T. Brodribb in 1858, they
brought stock with them, includ-
ing Merinos. “Probably Fur-
longes,” Austin, one of the
Austin - Wanganella family,
comments in his book —“Imagine
what happened to their backs the
first dry summer!” Furlonges
were famous breeders of Saxon
Merinos in Tasmania and
Victoria.
The Peppins left few records,
and nothing now remains of their
Front view of Boonoke homestead looking down on the extensive
garden.
old stud-books. “So [Austin
again] the most important
Merino strain in Australia' is
without trace of its earliest
history.” George Peppin, in his
1859 diary, reports buying 20
rams, “the pick of 30,” from
McKenzie of Conargo. A little
later, “two drafts from Tyson
on the Deniliquin road at 255.
and 17s. 6d. a head.” The Peppins
were certainly not famous
breeders then. They put their
place up for sale by auction at
Scott’s Hotel in Melbourne in
1861, but didn’t get a bid. They
came back determined “to breed
a sheep more suitable to the
district.”
They evolved a type of sheep
for the hot, dry plains: big-
framed, robust sheep, with bulky
backs and wool between 60’s and
64’s “that had almost the crimp,
style and color, on a larger scale,
of that grown on Ercildoune.”
What sheep they used to get this
type is open to debate, although
details of some of the famous
sires—Emperor, for instance, the
Rambouillet, reputed to have
cut 251 b. of wool (scoured, 121 b.)
for successive years are on
record. “Bruni,” the journalist to
whom we owe almost everything
we know about the Peppin
reports the use of
Emperor on Emperor's daughters
and granddaughters “as long as
fie lived.” Canally ewes were
used early, and these may have
had Levels (S.A.) blood.
Other Rambquillet rams were
used, and, in 1866, three rams
ff,om America. One of these,
Grimes, was probably an In-
fantado (Infantados were the
family of Spanish Merino from
which the Rambouillet was
developed, first* in France, and
then in the United States). There
are possibilities of more exotic
crosses, but the basic facts seem
to be that the Peppins took what
they wanted wherever they found
it, struck the type they aimed at,
and then inbred.
The Peppins must have been
breeders of genius. But what we
refer to now as the Peppin-blood
“parent-studs” are those studs
which derive directly from the
Peppin flocks and which, in turn,
have fathered tribes of studs in
different parts of Australia.
Directly and indirectly, these
studs have influenced the Aus-
tralian flocks enormously, and


SI
rx\
M
m
((-r,
y
Wi
%
You’ve probably never
shaken this hand
...but you should!
It's the hand of a man who does
more to boost your wool cheque
than almost anyone else you can
mention.
He’s a man who has spent his life in the wool game,
developing skill and judgment to ensure that your
wool sells at its frue value.
He is one of the reasons that you will find your
neighbour recommends the Jimac Wool Pool . . •
he is one of a team of true “professionals” who put
that little extra into their jobs so that wool prepared
for our clients brings the maximum return when
sold through a broker.
V *
FOR COMPLETE PREPARATION OF YOUR CUP FOR SALE THROUGH A BROKER
BRIDCLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.,
174-190 Dowling St., East Sydney, and Hannel St., Wickham, Newcastle
continue to do so. The earliest is
Uardry, near Hay, which began
in 1864, when Wragge and
Hearn bought 5000 rams and
ewes from the Peppins. Charles
Mills bought Uardry in 1876, and
this famous stud is still owned by
the Mills family.
In 1878, the Peppin properties,
Boonoke and Wanganella, were
sold. Albert Austin and Thomas
Millear bought Wanganella,
taking the double-stud which had
been started four years earlier,
and half the original stud. F. S.
Falkiner, John Ross and Mal-
colm McKenzie bought Boonoke,
taking the other half of the
original stud. In 1882 Falkiner
bought out Ross and McKenzie.
Two years later Austin and
Millear, who were brothers-in-
law, dissolved partnership,
dividing the property and the
sheep. Austin took the western
half —the present-day Wanga-
nella, still owned by the Austins.
Millear took the eastern half
and called it Wanganella Estate.
■ Thomas Millear died in 1895,
and some years later the
Falkiners bought Wanganella
Estate and the stud. But a son
of Thomas Millear, another
Thomas, had in the meantime
started a stud of his own which
he transferred to Deniliquin
Stud Park; which, with Stud
Park North, is owned by the
current Thomas Millear. Denili-
quin Stud Park is 14 miles north
of Deniliquin, adjoining Wan-
ganella (Austins) and Wanganella
Estate (Falkiners); Stud Park
North is some 35 miles north
of Jerilderie.
FALKINER drove us to
Boonoke. A dark man in
his middle forties, he’s a grand-
son of F. S. Falkiner
and his Christian-najnes are
Otway McLaurin ; called “Mac”
to avoid confusion with his
father, Otway Rothwell Falkiner.
For many years all sheep-
breeding on the F. S. Falkiner
and Sons properties was under
the personal supervision of
Otway Falkiner, but in 1953 he
retired, appointing Mac Falkiner
managing-director and Basil
Clipham general-manager and
studmaster; Otway Falkiner
retained office as chairman.
An M.L.C. and a director of
Sisalkraft and F. W. Williams,
Mac Falkiner seems to lead a
life split between town and
country. A few years back, he
was a notably energetic president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association. At the time of
which I write he had a flat over-
looking a fine stretch of harbor,
and was building a house at
Avalon. In the flat information
about wool from scattered parts
of the world was filed and, when
I was there, long-distance calls
kept breaking in every few
minutes. Now he lives at Avalon
and is trying to get a telephone.
He drove us in a powerful
British caj which effortlessly
swallowed the miles to Boonoke.
“Us” included James Boul-
ware ahd Professor Alexander
Johnston.
Boulware, Agricultural Attache
to the U.S. Embassy in Canberra,
said he knew next-to-nothing
about sheep (his background is
dairy-technology and rice), but
I’ll be surprised if he doesn’t
know a great deal by the time he
leaves Australia. He’s a trained
observer, with unique oppor-
tunities for observing.
Alexander Johnston is pro-
fessor at the University of
Wyoming, 7000 ft. above sea-
level in the Rockies, where there
is a famous Wool Department.
He was born in Glasgow, studied
wool at West of Scotland Agri-
cultural College, went to the
United States in 1926, and is one
of the keenest minds in the U.S.
wool-industry. He was out here
under the Fulbright scheme to
study wool from all angles—
selling, classing, growing, tech-
nology. He was on the job that
morning..
We talked as we drove, mainly
about sheep and wool. Professor
Johnston had something very
interesting to say—a modern
confirmation of the old saying
that half the breeding goes down
the throat-. He said, in effect,
that what goes down a lamb’s
The 40 -stand Boonoke shearing-shed. This, and other photographs
in this article, were taken by Mac Falkiner during the visit.
throat influences its wool per-
manently.
Temporary damage—tender
wool —we know. When sheep
have gone through a bad spell,
the break in the staple, coincid-
ing with the period of short
rations, is plain. Similarly, it
seems obvious that a lamb that
has had a rough time won’t have
the same chance of developing
the frame to carry a heavy fleece
as its well-fed cousin ; and there
won’t be the same skin-surface
on which to grow it. But John-
ston’s anglq was a different one.
He said the density of wool-
fibres —the number of individual
fibres growing on, say, a square-
inch of skin —depended, in part,
on the lamb’s early tucker. The
fibre population could be in-
creased by nutrition. The critical
period was up to a month after
birth. Later, no amount of feed-
ing would add one fibre. The
process began before birth —
follicles started in the foetus at
30 days.
The day wore on. Mac had
refused a change of driver, saying
he was used to it. Rain had
fallen heavily in patches, and
the car slithered and swayed.
Flocks of galahs flashing in the
sunset. Crossing the Billabong at
Jerilderie. Johnston and Boul-
ware had never heard of Ned
Kelly—a blow to pride.
Headlights of another car seemed
miles away, and getting no
nearer, our own headlights
sweeping ahead. Two lighted
insects creeping towards each
other across an immense black
plain. Fence-posts Slushing past.
Ti/fORE talk, then rain and
darkness and the wet road
shining under the headlights.
Then a turn-off and, soon,
Boonoke homestead rising out
of the night.
We warmed ourselves at a fire
in a room at the back of the
house —easy-chairs, telephone,
reference-books and Billy
McKee came in. He was then,
I think, overseer, and is now
manager of Boonoke. He’s been
with the firm some 45 years.
Introductions. Billy said he
was surprised to see us —we
were the first party to get
through. Everyone, looked
pleased. A drink all round,
yawns, bed.
Next morning the shearers
declared the sheep wet, so we
didn’t go down to the shed. We
poked around the homestead and
outbuildings, and later drove
through some paddocks.
Boonoke homestead is brick,
with a green galvanised-iron
roof. It isn’t the original home-
stead, which was burnt down
following “shearing trouble”
(there’s a firm Falkiner belief
that a man who later became a
politician set fire to it); still,
the present Boonoke homestead
must be fairly old. A typical
station-homestead of the older
style, with some 21 rooms, high
ceilings and a certain massive
dignity. The long veranda looks
down on gardens and lawn
(these, with the big vegetable-
garden, watered from the near-by
Billabong Creek), and behind the
house are five giants—the biggest
pepper-trees I have ever seen—
planted by Mrs. F. S. Falkiner
in 1882.
Around the homestead
scattered over a wide area, out-
buildings, yards and what
amounts to a village of houses.
Garage (with bowser), black-
smith’s shop, butcher’s shop,
dairy and the like. A blood
stallion nickering across the lane
(Boonoke once had a famous
Clydesdale stud), sheep-dogs,
sulkies, a variety of motor-
vehicles, including a big truck
for carting wool, machinery-
shed, tractors. The place is just
about self-contained. Apart from
casual labor, it supports about
120 people. It has its own foot-
ball- and cricket-teams and every
Sunday night the cinema. No
pub. But there’s, one at Conargo,
about five miles away.
Over 60 years Boonoke has
had an average rainfall of
The big fiat paddocks grow
o Continued on page 53)


TUWINGA MERINO STUD
REGISTERED FLOCK No. 707
Tuwinga Stud Ram No. T 989, lambed June, 1946. Ist Prize under 2 years class and
Champion Fine Wool Merino Ram at Sydney Sheep Show, 1948; also Grand Champion Merino
Ram, Quirindi, 1948.
Medium Wool Rams tof pure old original
Collaroy Blood (no outside strains intro-
duced since 1855).
Fine Wool Rams of Pure Collaroy, Winton
and Valleyfield Blood.
Tuwinga Rams are bred with consistently
large frames of ideal conformation and carry
fleeces of long-stapled, soft-handling wool
showing lots of character.
Inquiries for Sale Rams from —
J. H. TRAILL & SONS
TUWINGA. BUNDELLA, N.S.W.
Telephone: 10 Bundella
Situated: 65m. from QUIRINDI, 24m. from COOL AH, 22m. from PREMER Rly.
IIAIIUHY
Established 1864 FOUNDATION PEPPIN Reg; Flock 79
*
R
Wms.
m
HH
m
m:i
■
The above UARDRY RAMS were among those that averaged £2,380 each (for six) at
the Sydney Ram Sales last year, when 27 Uardry rams averaged over £lOOO per head.
This year 6 Special Stud Rams and 24 Stud Rams, as well as 14 Selected Rams (pens of
2) will be offered on a/c owners, CHARLES MILLS (UARDRY) PTY. LTD. They
represent the highest standard of breeding of Merino rams for stud service. In many
respects they are better sheep than those that made the record average last year.
UARDRY, a great’parent stud flock in the truest sense, is 30 miles east of Hay on
the north side ot the Bid gee Rainfall is 13 inches. Size and stamina are natural
characteristics, and high type Merino wool is bred into
them . . . Uardry sheep were the first to be called Peppin
Merinos . . . Throughout Australia and New Zealand
Uardry rams have won recognition ON THEIR MERIT
MANAGER: Rowand Jameson
STUD CLASSER: H. Frank Pcnnefather
Apply Manager, UARDRY, HAY, N.S.W.
Telephone: CARRAJHOOL 1
Telegrams: CARRATHOOL
such assistance, the cost of hand-
ling sheep could easily become
prohibitive.
While considerable emphasis
is placed on the conformity of
the sheep, the Show does not
overlook the fleeces, and a
special section is set aside with
47 different classes for fleeces of
Merinos, Corriedales and Pol-
warths. When this was first in-
troduced, in 1936, there were no
entries; in the next year there
were seven. Today over 100 pro-
vide an outstanding display at
the Show.
It is interesting to recall that
six prize-winning fleeces from
the 1955 Sheep Show were flown
to England for exhibition at the
Royal Agricultural Show at
Nottingham, to provide pub-
licity for Australian wool and
give the public there an oppor-
tunity of seeing the outstanding
quality of our fleeces.
The Show, through the judg-
ing contests, also provides par-
ticularly important training in
assessing the value of sheep.
The contests are held for
Merinos, Corriedales and British
breeds, in different age-groups.
These contests are confined to
sheepbreeders, or potential
sheepbreeders with not less than
six months’ experience on a
sheep-station, who permanently
reside in Australia. Students
who qualify, in elimination-con-
tests at agricultural or technical
colleges may also take part.
By participating, the future
sheepbreeders of Australia gain
practical experience in handling
and selection of sheep and re-
ceive basic training as future
judges.
Total attendance at the 1955
Sheep Show exceeded 50,000,
concrete proof of the growth of,
general interest in our work.
Of course, the Show is only
one phase of the association’s
activities.
The association’s objects are
broad. They are to improve the
breed and quality of sheep and
to take any action which may
serve that purpose or which may
be either directly or indirectly
beneficial to or in the interests
of sheepbreeders, not only in
New South Wales but in Aus-
tralia generally.
It is in this spirit that the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion has published its flock-
registers. Volume 31 of the Aus-
tralian Stud Merino Flock
Register, published at the end of
last year, contained reference to
1928 stud-flocks, of which 1203
are now active. There were 100
more stud-flocks than in the
previous volume.
An interesting fact revealed
by the register is the continued
increase in the number of
Merino-studs in Victoria, where
a new Merino Association was
formed about six years ago. The
total in that State exceeds 100-.
The Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion has recently published a
book entitled The Australian
Merino, with a foreword by Sir
Norman Kater. This publication
we have been able to produce
through the help and guidance of
the following: H. B. Carter,
author of the historical section ;
the late Charles Shaw [who for
many years conducted The
Bulletin’s “Man on the Land”
pages], editorial data; R. M.
Macmillan, T. H. Strong, and
officers of the C.5.1.R.0.; for
the fine photographs, “Country
Life Newspaper,” the “Pastoral
Review,” the Commonwealth
News and Information Bureau,
and H. H. Fishwick.
The object of this book is to
present, as accurately as possible,
the story of the Merino-industry
in Australia, and the part the
stud-breeders, past and present,
have played to bring the Austra-
lian Merino to the high standard
it enjoys today.
It should be evident that the
Sydney Sheep Show is not only a
meeting-place for people on the
land but an “education-piece”
for all city-folk as well. Our
object is to educate all Austra-
lians to realise that the Austra-
lian Merino produces the best
wool in the world, and that it is
a product vital to the economy of
Australia.
I feel I cannot let this oppor-
tunity pass without making
known to all interested in the
sheep-breeding-industry and the
by-products of our sheep the
help given by the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of New South
Wales to the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association, the Aus-
tralian Society of Breeders of
British Sheep and the Corrie-
dale and Polwarth Associations
in making available the Show-
ground, with its splendid
pavilions in which to display and
sell our sheep. We all realise
that our main objective is the
furtherance of all primary in-
dustries, which are the backbone
of dur great Australia, and the
co-operation at all times by the
R.A.S. towards this end is
appreciated by the sheepbreeders.
In conclusion I, as president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association, would like to issue
a cordial invitation to all to pay
a visit to our Sheep Show, which
will be held at the Sydney Show-
ground commencing today
(Wednesday, May 30). I feel
sure that people in all walks of
life cannot fail to be interested
in our exhibition of sheep, the
wool-exhibition featuring all
types of articles manufactured
from wool, the sheep-dog trials,
shearing-demonstrations and the
like.
With Australia’s wealth lean-
ing so heavily on wool, the
association and its Shows are,
we believe, of national import-
ance.
The Merino in Queensland
By David M. Archer
A/TERINOS first came to
Queensland (then the More-
ton Bay district of N. S. Wales)
about 120 years ago, and the
breed has progressed steadily ever
since.
The increase from a few
thousand in 1840 to 20,221,000 in
this current year (numbers have
been higher), with an average
cut of per head, indicates
the suitability of the States
great pastoral areas for Merinos,
It also gives some idea of the
effort of the pioneers who
opened-up an unknown land and
stocked it with what time has
proved to be our greatest
national asset.
There were difficulties in the
beginning. Sheep were taken
along the coast as far north as
Rockhampton, but breeders soon
realised that the tropical coast,
with its high rainfall, wasn’t
Merino-country. The Merino
moved west. There, the drier
climate meant less disease and,
in short, the kind of environment
in which the Merino thrives,
Some excellent fine-wools are
still grown in coastal areas
where altitude provides a drier
climate, and some very fine
sheep-properties are found there,
but in the main they are stocked
with sheep bred inland,
Stud-breeding closely followed
the first flock-sheep. From
about 1842 stud-flocks were
established on the Darling
Downs. By the end of the
century stud-breeding was firmly
established in Queensland,
The Queensland Merino Stud
Sheepbreeders’ Association was
formed in 1934 with the object
of assisting and promoting
stud-breeding. Great help came
from the N. S. Wales Sheep-
breeders’ Association always
most helpful to the stud-business
in Queensland—and top sheep
bred by members of that asso-
ciation and brought to Queens-
land played no small part in the


Reg. Flock No. 7
Reg. Flock No. 84
Reg, Flock No. 987
F. S. Falkiner & Sons Pty. Ltd,,
Famous Stud Flocks
*BOONOKE
* WAN GAN ELLA ESTATE
• POLL BOONOKE (No. 1 StuoJ)
ONE-THIRD OF AUSTRALIA’S WOOL CLIP IS BRED TO THIS BLOOD
Boonoke and Wanganella Estate Studs comprise a foundation of 75% of the Merino
Stud Sheep bred by George Peppin and Sons. Boonoke acquired by present family
ownership 1878, Wanganella Estate, 1910. Poll Boonoke Stud was founded by
Otway R. Falkiner in 1934. It is pure Boonoke blood plus 20 years of Poll
inheritance. Poll Boonoke Stud No. 2 (Reg. Flock 2101), based on 1000 Wanganella
Estate two-tooth ewes, was formed in 1956.
m
Mi
Some of the Boonoke Polls for Sydney Ram Sales
These basic studs of the wool industry are represented at Sydney Ram Sales by
sale teams comprising 7 special Stud Rams and 16 Stud Rams from Wanganella
Estate, 6 Special Stud Rams and 15 Stud Rams from Boonoke and 32 Stud Rams,
also 20 Selected Rams in pens of two from the Poll Boonoke establishment.
Special FSF Catalogue available from agents.
FSF represents the Biggest Ram Selling Business on Earth.
All grades Stud and Flock Rams available ex depots (subject to sales).
Order from the Sales Manager.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
BOONOKE NORTH, WIDGIEWA, N.S.W.
Telegrams: Boonram, Urana, or Queensland Depot, Cleeve Station, Longreach.
Telephones: Urana 15, Longreach 53.
Wonga Rams
BRED IN THE REGISTERED MERINO FLOCK No. 794
-
:
-
I
111
:■ % a!®. •.»JK
fa ■ aa
■
■J'S
■
i»Y
■
■ ■ .. ...
• '
m
■■ h
■BB S£9
I . :
WONGA-BRED STUD RAM
by
JOHN A. CULLEY & CO.
WONGA STUD, JERILDERIE, N.S.W.
( Telephone : 114 Jerilderie)
ARE RENOWNED for MASSIVE SYMMETRICAL FRAMES, GREAT CONSTITUTION,
EVENNESS OF TYPE, TRUE WOOL full of quality.
i^ h iQi^ r liJ 3i eS aS th ,f o F iginal Yoorooga Stud, which was founded
in 1913, with pure W anganella-blood ewes bred at Willandra, and Austin-Murgha rams.
WONGA MERINO STUD was formed in 1937 with one-half of the Yoorooga registered
flock, and today ranks high amongst the Peppin-Type Merino Studs.
Rams are classed by Wilfred Pennefather
Inquiries invited for Stud and Flock Rams that will put Bulk and Quality into any wool clip
high standard of our stud-
flocks.
Today 72 registered Merino
studs in Queensland carry some
30,000 stud-sheep and produce
80 per cent, of the 40,000 flock-
rams required each year in this
State.
This advance in stud- and
flock-sheep did not come easily.
In establishing the Merino in
Queensland, breeders had to
overcome, as well as the diffi-
culties already known in other
States, problems peculiar to
Queensland itself ; so all troubles
could not be overcome by study-
ing the other fellow’s mistakes.
A book could be written on
the ups-and-downs of those early
days, but it is sufficient to say
here that once the land most
suited to the Merino was found
and occupied, and permanent
water assured by the discovery
of artesian and sub-artesian
supplies, the major difficulties
had been overcome. From then
on the human element was the
decisive factor, and, by and
large, a creditable job has been
done, helped by the Merino
itself, which, given something
even near to its liking, has the
happy characteristic of being
able to do for itself.
With the movement of
southern studs into Queensland
in recent years, the State has
been described as the “last line of
defence of the Merino.” But
there is no doubt that closer-
settlement in the parent stud-
breeding States has caused
alarm, and only the most com-
placent would close their eyes to
the dangers of the situation.
In Queensland the Merino still
enjoys a lead of 99 per cent,
compared with other breeds.
So far as the Merino is con-
cerned, the cutting-up of pastoral
country into what are little more
than farming-areas is disastrous.
This subdividing is apparently
based on the belief that Merino-
breeders should become part-
time farmers, on a 13in. rainfall,
and grow sufficient fodder to
feed their own,sheep in drought.
People who know typical
Merino-country know that to
attempt to farm it is to court
disappointment and loss, first
because of the low average rain-
fall, and second because labor
is hard enough to get 500 miles
inland for normal grazing, let
alone for farming in an' un-
suitable and unattractive climate.
Men of long experience say it
will work out cheaper in the end
to grow crops in the 30in.-rain-
fall areas and leave the Merino to
its wide, open spaces. In time of
plenty graziers can buy fodder
from farmers at reasonable
prices and build-up supplies
against (drought a procedure
which is economically sound with
a little Government co-operation.
But the whole thing cuts deeper
than that. If the Merino in
Queensland and, for that
matter, over the whole of the
Commonwealth —is to thrive and
continue to carry our population
on its back, land-administration
must recognise the Merino’s
particular requirements.
In Victoria
By Sandford Beggs
WITH the subdivision of
Victorian properties for
closer-settlement there
has been a widespread
impression that the smaller areas
could not be worked satisfac-
torily to produce the fine-woolled
Merino for which the State has
become famous.
This possibility has concerned
all sections of the wool-industry.
To the manufacturers it could
mean the loss of their chief
source of really super-grades of
fine wool. And the loss of this
wool from the market could be
a blow to growers all over the
world, because it is one of the
industry’s most effective weapons
in the struggle with synthetics.
But, in fact, there are no good
biological reasons why Merinos,
and the highest-quality wool
cannot be grown on improved-
pastures, and this is becoming
generally recognised.
It is significant that the
number of Merino rams in use
in Victoria has risen from
78,000 in 1950 to over 97,000 in
1955, a good indication that the
breed is gaining in popularity.
Thye is now a much more
general appreciation of the in-
herent ability of the Saxon
strain of Merino to maintain its
fineness of quality under highly
improved pasture-conditions.
This, together with a realisation
that Merinos are little, if
any, more susceptible to the
dangers of intensive stocking
than other breeds, is probably
responsible for their increased
use.
In spite of reduced acreages,
with consequent pasture-
improvement and higher stock-
ing-density, the famous old clips
of the Western District are main-
taining their superb quality.
Soldier-settlers and other small-
holders are taking an increasing
place among those getting high
prices in Victorian market-
centres. Geelong still holds pride
of place as the Mecca of fine-
wool buyers.
The reputation of the Vic-
torian wool-clip depends mainly
on these fine wools, but condi-
tions in large areas of the State
do not favor this type of pro-
duction. The robust, stronger-
woolled type of Merino has
also been found to thrive and to
produce extraordinarily heavy
\
fleeces on improved-pasture.
There are many advocates for
this type of flock; it has, of
course, always been supreme in
the hotter, drier areas.
So much for the better side
of things—the breed is certainly
experiencing a renaissance—but
there are dangers and problems.
The Merino flock-structure in
Victoria—and in the whole of
Australia—is built upon a small
number of fairly large parent-
studs of long lineage. They
have been line-bred for many
generations, and are large
enough to rely on themselves for
continuity without recourse to
outside introductions whi c h
would disturb their blood-lines.
These parent-studs are the
nucleus on which the many
smaller studs depend for main-
tenance of their high standard.
Because of the comparatively
small area which they serve, the
numerical output of these studs
is not impressive compared with
that of some of the great N. S.
Wales parent-studs, but they pro-
duce an article obtainable no-
where else in the world. These
invaluable assets are threatened
from two directions.
They attract the attention of
closer-settlement authorities be-
cause they are large areas in a
region where closer-settlement is
a national policy and inevitable
in the evolution of the country.
Their smaller output, compared
with that of the great northern
studs, tends to lessen their im-
portance in the eyes of the
uninformed.
The dispersal of these studs
would be a national tragedy,
because all the planning and
scientific research in the world
would not bring back the flocks
of ewes or the skilled persons
who own and manage them. The
wastage has been too high
already.
History “has shown that as
population - densities increase,
pastoral economies give way to
more intensive food-production.
Because of its natural resources
Victoria is destined to become
one of the more densely-popu-
lated areas of the world and, at
some time, that must militate
against the future of its Merinos.
For the present, however, the
Merino is still the most important
o Continued on next page )


MURRAWOMBIE
PURE KOONOONA (S.A.) BLOOD
Reg. No. 1044
MUSI 1
.'■r. ",
&
'
mm
m
f - s
m
m
m
w x
'' ■
v
m
MURRAWOMBIE 9.35, a strong wool 2£-year-old Stud Ram. He is by Special
Stud Sire Kl 2, who sired 5.2 winner of the strong wool ram championship at
Sydney in 1947.
Murrawombie rams carry bright, shafty fleeces, full of character, and possess an
inherent ability to “Breed on.”
YOUR CHOICE IS RIGHT WITH MURRAWOMBIE RAMS
MOXHAM BROS. MURRAWOMBIE
via Giriicsmbone, N.S.W.
mmms
DENILIQUIN
STUD PARK NORTH
MERINO STUD
(Reg. Flock 195)
These Merinos are pure lineal descendants from Peppin’s
original double stud flock on Wanganella, and have been bred
and improved continuously since 1878 by three generations of
the Millear family. Stud Park North flock rams, 2000 of which are
classed up annually, are sure flock improvers—lamb getters,
bale fillers .. . They possess great stamina, strong bone,
UNIFORMITY of type. Manager is Mr. Ken A. Macdonald . . .
Stud classer Mr. H. Frank Pennefather, Telephone Gala Vale 27
(through Jerilderie) . . . THE USUAL GOOD TEAM OF STUD
RAMS IS PENNED UP FOR SALE AT SYDNEY RAM SALES
ON JUNE 5/7 •. . Bold medium wool.
It is advisable to book up general ram orders early. Queensland
depot—Sylvania, Hughenden.
gap
?\ s\f ft . X• 9> "> v , •■■ ' <r“ v* <A</ * Xf;
2*4? K s rH
v>> , ,
■m
.' »*» K %" *; * ■ ■viw’-w
: 'it*!ifir - -f-fmi. m i , ;' ;; -- : -
« ~*/*:i 'llTi^
w
m
m
m.
ggag
m
m
m®
m
m*
m
m
m
mmm.
ROUTINE CLASSING OF THE EWES AT STUD PARK NORTH
Write:
THOMAS MILLEAR, Stud Park North, Jerilderie
economic force in the pastoral
and financial structure of the
State.
The most recent figures avail-
able (1953) show that Merinos
comprise 39 per cent, of Vic-
torian flocks. The addition of the
2,250,000 fine comebacks would
bring this figure to over 50 per
cent. This proportion is probably
still maintained in the record
22,329,000 sheep now in the
State.
In South Australia
By "A. Breeder"
'THE early settlers of South
Australia realised that the
country was most suitable for
sheep on a large scale/ and as
early as 1838 they had decided
that the Merino would there be
the best.
Exploration inland revealed
large tracts of good sheep-
country, its light rainfall calling
for a hardy type of Merino that
would survive and produce pro-
fitable fleeces under hard condi-
tions. This was the idea in the
minds of the S.A. sheep-pioneers
before the stud-breeders began,
and it proved a sound basis
upon which the leading studs of
the State have built-up the recent
high standard of their stock.
The aim of the earliest stud-
breeders was to produce a sheep
with large frame, good conforma-
tion and strong constitution,
covered with a long-stapled fleece
of reasonable density. This they
did in no uncertain manner. The
earliest wool produced was
possibly overstrong and lacked
handle and character, but the
studbreeders have corrected that.
Today S.A. Merinos can hold
their own with any in Australia
Typical S.A. Merino rams.
in heavy-cutting, in monetary
return per head and in high
lambing-percentages.
Among the earliest studs which
are still prominent today, and
which had a big influence on the
Merino in S.A., a large part of
W.A., the West Darling area of
N. S. Wales and several districts
of Queensland, 'the following
should be mentioned:
Anlaby (1838), which over-
landed 5000 Merinos from
N.S.W., the first big consign-
ment to come into the State (it
was followed by consignments
from Tasmania and Victoria by
other early pioneers). Then there
were Rosebank (1840), Bungaree
(1840), Rhine Park, Cappeedee
(1843), Martindale (1850),
Koonoona (1863), The Bluff
(1874) and Collinsville (1895).
These studs have been outstand-
ing in improving the standard of
rams available to commercial
and pastoral breeders.
Notable studs of a later period
include Ashrose (1910) and
Stradbrooke (1932), and there
are also a number of young
studs producing profitable sheep.
The bulk of Merino-wool in
S.A. is grown outside Goyder’s
Line —the line established by the
surveyor of that name in the
early days, and separating with
fair accuracy the rainfall-areas of
under and over 10 inches. Much
of the Merino-country has a rain-
fall as low as six- or seven-inches.
Generally it carries a good mixed
variety of grasses, herbage and
bushes, many of a saline nature,
while large produce the
various native trees, chief of
which are mulga, sandalwood,
bullockbush, blackoak and
mallee.
All this country produces a
healthy animal and grows good
wool, though it generally has a
tendency to fine-down the quality
of wool. Stud-breeders breed
rams of a more robust type to
counter the effects of the climate
and feed, these resulting in
medium-to-fine clips which meet
a ready demand from the trade
and give satisfactory returns. In
this lighter-rainfall country it is
generally recognised that sheep
should grow an average of 131 b.
and returns of 171 b. are common,
Lambing-percentages frequently
exceed 90 per cent.
In Tasmania
By John Foster
MANY people refer to the
Tasmanian Merinos as
“Saxons” —an acknowledgment
that the early Tasmanian
breeders brought their sheep
from Saxony. The Saxony
breeders, of course, originally
brought their Merinos from
Spain.
At Pleasant Banks I still have
the permit, dated 1822, authoris-
ing my maternal great-grand-
father, John Leake, to bring
sheep to Van Diemen’s Land
from Saxony. There were fairly
large importations of Saxons in
the 1820’s. [The first sheep of
Merino-blood arrived in Tas-
mania in 1806.] Over the years
our ancestors evolved, you might
say, new sheep to suit a variety
of environments in Australia.
The Tasmanian Merino was de-
veloped in the South Esk and
Macquarie valleys. Great stud-
masters and environment pro-
duced a sheep admirably suited
to certain conditions.
These sheep are not very big
and that is no disadvantage. A
big sheep 6 eats a lot more than a
small sheep and, since two small
sheep between them have a
greater coverage than one big
sheep, the big one has to work
harder to get the food it needs.
Another feature of the Tas-
manian sheep is that they live a
long time. There are cases of
ewes carrying good fleeces and
rearing lambs at 16 years, and
it is not uncommon for them to
do the same up to 10 and 12
years. To do this, of course,
they have to be bred to mature
more slowly, but as it is wool
we are after, not early-maturing
larhbs, that is all to the good.
It is fine wool that made Tas-
mania, at one time, the Merino
stud-farm of the world. The
export-embargo killed that. But
now, on the Merino properties,
the average fleece is around 70 s
to 74’s, with quite a lot of very
fine wool —up to 130’s, and even
finer—still to be found. It is
this wool from 90’s and finer
that brings the world-record


SHOW RING PROVES
MERRYVILLE SUPREMACY
Merryville’s “Silkys Best”
was Superfine Champion
and Reserve Grand Cham-
pion at Sydney Sheep Show,
1955. This ram’s fleece of
281 b. weight (without locks,
stains, etc., 3 (lb. in all) was
sent to the International
Wool Exhibition held in
conjunction with the Mel-
bourne Royal Show in 1955.
The fleece competed against
480 fleeces and was awarded
the 100 - guinea World’s,
Championship Trophy for
the most stylish fleece. The
fleece was not only the most
valuable but also the,
heaviest at the exhibition.
The Ram himself before
being shorn weighed 240|-lb.
The great majority of the
best and highest priced clips
m
. ::
iti|SS:WSIP
. sllliPtii®
M
HERCULES —Medium Wool Champion and Grand
Champion Merino Ram, Sydney Sheep Show, 1955.
in Australia owe their excellence to the use of Merryville rams. The Merryville clip,
1955 season, sold to 340 d., 310 d. and 290 d. in Geelong, a record for wool grown in
New South Wales for the 1955 season, and was shorn from twelve months’ old sheep.
Merryville Pty. Ltd. will offer through the various selling agents : —
4 Special Stud Rams.
16 Stud Rams.
84 Specially Selected Stud Rams.
8 Poll Stud Rams.
These are a magnificent lot of Rams. Many of them will be competing at the Sydney
Sheep Show. Included in the team is the Bathurst Gold Cup winner, and the
Medium Wool Champions of A.C.T. and Gunning Shows this year.
Bookings are now being taken for the 1954 drop of rams, available from October
onwards this year.
Inquiries:
MERRYVILLE PTY. LTD.,
"Merryville," Yass, N.S.W. Phone 175
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS’
CO-OPERATIVE GRAIN INSURANCE AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
The distinction of being the leading wool-
selling broker in New South Wales is
something of which we are justly proud.
It is an indication of the service rendered
to clients from whom we receive complete
co-operation and constant expressions of
satisfaction for prices realised, even though
market fluctuations are often difficult to
explain.
Consignors of wool and stock cannot do
better than join with us in our co-operative
activities.
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS’
CO-OPERATIVE GRAIN INSURANCE AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
LICENSED STOCK & STATION AGENTS
pr i ces _ and, believe me, the
thrill of getting a world-record
price is something never to be
forgotten.
The Tasmanian Merino, with
its fine, dense fleece, will with-
stand wet weather admirably,
The wool is finer than silk. A
scarf of it, 6ft.-square, will pull
through a wedding-ring ; yet it
will keep you warm. It is very
doubtful whether a synthetic will
ever be made to compete with
the finer wools. There is some-
thing about the style of the
finished article made from fine
wool that gives the wearer a
VICTOR —one of the Pleasant Banks team which made the highest
average price (470gns.) at Melbourne sales in 1955. Note the
tree-branch — Mr. Foster considers trees and shrubs essential.
sense of value—of breeding, one
might say—that canpot be
equalled by artificial-fibres. Fifty
years ago in Tasmania over
80 per cent, of our wool was
fine Merino ; it is under
10 per cent.
This should make the powers-
that-be reflect whether the
policy of forbidding the export
of Merinos has been justified by
events. In this corner of Aus-
tralia it has ruined a flourish-
ing industry which, because it
was flourishing, enriched the
Merino strains all over Aus-
tralia. Fine wools are grown
in other parts of Australia, but
occasional infusions of Tas-
manian blood seem necessary to
maintain a certain standard over
a fairly large area. And, his-
torically, many parts of Aus-
tralia, and many famous main-
land studs, owe a lot to Tas-
manian blood.
Wool, as Australia’s main ex-
port, is important to everybody ;
and every type of wool is needed.
But these fine, beautiful Tas-
manian wools, so soft to handle,
are the quality-goods displayed
in Australia’s shop-window.
A word about pastures. A
few years ago it was widely be-
lieved that Merinos would not
thrive on improved-pastures,
This theory has since been ex-
ploded. In the days when the
Merino ran practically any-
where, except where it was too
wet, there were plenty of native
shrubs and trees which the sheep
nibbled when they felt like it;
these, in my opinion, acted as a
sort °f tonic. It is not improved-
pasture that causes trouble, but
the destruction of trees and
shrubs, which supplied some-
thing needed by the sheep, That
is my opinion,
Here at Pleasant Banks we
have a one-acre experimental
paddock which runs 25 to 27
sheep all the year round. They
get a little supplementary feed
in winter, and this paddock cuts
me over £2OO-worth of wool
annually. What can be done on
one acre could, I believe, be
done on many acres,
We attribute the good health
of the sheep in this paddock to
the fact that, at one end, there is
a plantation of pine-trees with
the branches hanging low so the
the sheep can nibble them, and
throughout the paddock there
is a scattering of deep-rooting
phalaris-grass. We believe that
deep roots go down into the soil
and bring up elements which, in
minute quantities, are essential
for the sheep’s health.
When the fashion for Ram-
bouillets hit Australia, a few
Tasmanian studs experimented
with them. But, in the main,
these were only experiments,
Experience has shown that, for
Tasmanian conditions, our own
type of Merino is best. Today
we believe that the Tasmanian
Merino is 100 per cent. Saxon
(progeny of early out-crosses
were later rejected). But, as
mentioned earlier, the embargo
—and high taxation and death-
duties have reduced the
numbers of Merinos in Tas-
mania drastically. Unless they
are changed, these things will be
very bad for the Merino in Tas-
mania—and, I believe, for Aus-
tralia. The next generation may
not carry on with stud-Merino-
breeding under present con-
ditions, and once the sheep dis-
appear they are gone for good,
Nobody’s going to spend 150
years rebreeding them.
In Western Australia
By F. C. Stone
■jV/fOST of Westralia’s million
square miles is so arid that,
but for the Merino, it would still
lie unused.
The first Merinos were
brought over from Tasmania in
1829, and augmented in the next
decade by drafts from N. S.
Wales. By 1860, when the first
fingerings inland from *Geraldton
followed in the wake of Burgess
and Drummond, the colony held
barely a quarter-million sheep.
Expansion followed develop-
ment to the north. As flocks
fanned through the hinterland
from the few ports dotting the
northern coastline, the uncul-
tivable pastoral lands were found
capable of sustaining, in the
better areas, one sheep to five
acres, and, in less hospitable
country, one sheep to 30 acres.
Attempts at heavier stocking
were unsuccessful, and eventually
a balance was struck in the
country north of Geraldton and
on the goldfields between a maxi-
mum sheep-population of about
four millions and the recupera-
tive powers of the natural
vegetation.
But that was to come. By
1901 W.A. still had fewer than
three-million sheep and their
average yield was then only 41b.
—little more than half that of
Merinos in the east, and clear
evidence of weaknesses in breed-
ing and management.
There followed a steady, and
about equal, increase in sheep
in pastoral and agricultural areas.
In the pastoral areas all sheep
were Merinos; in the south
about a fifth came to consist of
British breeds, Corriedales and
crossbreds —a proportion which
has varied with the overseas
demand for mutton and lamb
or for wool.
The opening of the wheatbelt
before and after World War I
brought an increase in wool-
growing, even though many
farms in the drier areas stuck to
wheat until the depression forced
them to change or quit.
After the war, too, the stock-
ing of pastoral areas was com-
pleted, when S.A. squatters,
attracted by low rentals, sent
their sons to develop the country
around and to the north of
Leonora, Malcolm and Laverton.
(i Continued on next page)


Younghusband
Limited
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
Buyers and sellers are invited to consult our
STUD STOCK DEPARTMENT
for the selection or sale of stock
Fat and Store Stock Sales held at
NEWMARKET
by
L. A. FAIRBAIRN & CO.
Incorporated in Younghusband Limited
Registered Office: 137 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE.
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
Registered Office: 94-96 KING ST., MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT VICTORIA AND RIVERINA.
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
D. L. O'SULLIVAN
O'BRIEN HOUSE, 56 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY.
w
A
1
#«
i
ax
b«
m
wlp
(fNylon )
mm
Wt'Wynr
Envy from
Nylon? Never!
A. FTER all, wool has so much to offer .. . it’s WONDERFUL
. . , always has been and always will be . . . BUT
wool PLUS a relatively small percentage of nylon becomes
quite astonishing in its added versatility.
Nylon weaves a touch of magic into wool . . . makes it harder
wearing . . . permanently pleatable, absolutely Unbeatable
as an all-season fabric. For any occasion . . . there is nothing to
touch wool . . . with nylon. See what we’re driving at?
Nylon can make fine woollens . . . finerP 'You gain
so much from so little
If you want to know more about Nylon,
write to BRITISH NYLON SPINNERS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., 90 Queen
Street, Melbourne. C.I. Technical
information will be supplied gladly.
Incidentally, they confirmed the
value in W.A. of the bale-filling
S.A. Merino bloods.
The South Australians, how-
ever, overestimated the carrying-
capacity of the country, and
others did likewise. By 1931, the
pastoral areas held over five-
million sheep, numbers that were
soon halved in the following
drought-years and have not been
approached since.
By 1931 there were already
five-and-a-half million sheep in
the agricultural areas, where
wheatfarmers were trying to add
sheep-husbandry to the cultiva-
tion of crops: in general, only
those who succeeded survived the
lean times.
Eighteen years later, despite
the intervening war, sheep in
the south had approached eight
million, and the increase had not
been achieved at the expense of
quality. The State’s average yield
had even risen by nearly a pound
to 7.91 b. a head.
High prices in latter years have
increased production, most of
that increase being in the wheat-
belt, despite the limiting factors
of water and seed.
Today, sub-artesian water,
farm-dams and, in favored parts,
water from the goldfields main
are being supplemented by
Government works.
Where farmers traditionally
relied on natural pasture and
stubble for feed, most have since
learnt better. The long dry spell
lasts from October to April and
by December the goodness has
left the surviving dry feed. Most
farmers have begun to supple-
ment with baled hay and, less
usually, with grain.
Within the 17in.-rainfall belt,
sub.-clovers have been introduced
as a rotation crop to restore
nitrogen and soil-texture. With
cover-crops, the clovers have
enabled farmers jto carry many
more sheep. Even so, no variety
of sub.-clover or other legume
has yet been found or bred for
the drier half of the wheatbelt.
The value of supplements, long
advocated by the Agricultural
Department, was well demon-
strated last year. An unpre-
cedented general rain in January,
followed by a good winter,
brought such heavy clips that
Westralian woolgrowers were
profitably convinced 6f what can
be achieved when sheep enjoy
good tucker the year round.
[Associated Wool Brokers esti-
Total wool-clip and number of sheep shorn in W.A.
mate 412,000 bales (320,000 from
agricultural areas) for 1955-56 as
against 357,350 bales. (277,100)
for the previous season. Numbers
of sheep and lambs shorn are not
yet available.]
Today, the average wool-yield
of. Westralia’s 12-million sheep
is second in weight only to that
of S.A.
Westralian station - owners
established studs in the south
early in the first to provide
cheaper annual drafts of flock-
rams for their own stations, and,
second, to sell to others.
Other station-owners, such as
A. H. Gillam, established flocks
on the stations themselves, but
the costs of hand-feeding on
necessarily restricted areas led
to the transfer of the studs to
kindlier climates.
Successful Westralian sheep-
farmers, particularly in the Great
Southern where pastures were
more readily established, also
tended to turn to stud-breeding,
but they were handicapped for
a long time by an uncertain
market and by the practice of
importing flock-rams from the
longer-established and larger
studs in the east.
Following a first, and success-
ful, ram-sale in Katanning in
1918, studmasters in that area
formed the Great Southern
Sheepbreeders’ Association to
protect their interests and con-
tinue the sale annually. Among
the original members are names
now well-known and respected
by W.A. sheepmen.
Thomas Anderson was the first
president, and F. S. Thompson,
Ross Anderson, G. L. Hardie,
T. E. Richardson, A. E. Piesse,
Cliff Anderson, Alec Ball, A. B.
Stone, W. J. Philips, E. H.
Richardson and W. A. Newby
were among the first members
and office-holders. Some of them
were also to take office a few
years later in a larger association
of W.A. stud masters.
In the first Katanning sale the
most popular bloods were Wan-
ganella, Boonoke, Cannowie,
Munay, Bungaree and Koo-
noona, which have been pro-
minent in W.A. ever since. The
top two prices of 90gns. and
80gns. went to Ross Anderson.
Cliff Anderson’s best ram
brought 60gns.
In 1922, under the inspiration
of M. Corbet and C. Austin, the
West Australian Merino
Breeders’ Association was
formed to promote and assist the
breeding of pure Merinos in
W.A.
Corbet was elected first pre-
sident, A. L. B. Lefroy vice-
president; and A. Nicol (soon
to be followed by Norman
Malcolm) the first secretary. The
committee consisted of Ross
Anderson, J. W. Brown, H. W.
Clarkson, A. B. Cochran,
Gordon Gooch, Austin Piesse
and T. Wilding.
The first annual report listed
65 members, and the first volume
of the stud-book had 51 names.
The association’s policy has
succeeded and woolgrowers,
whether pastoralists or farmers,
are today confident of the ability
of W.A. studmasters to supply
their needs.
The overall quality of W.A.
stud sheep is very even, despite
the multiplicity of smaller studs
Practically every flock has been
established on sheep originally
imported from the east. The
knowledge and practical experi-
ence of local studmasters have
enabled them to buy additional
stock with confidence and
success.
There are, i think, more
country ram-auctions in Western
Australia than in any other
State, and the competition of
discriminating buyers ha?
encouraged studmasters to pay
high prices for good sires.
' For example, the top-price of
1500gns. was paid at the last
Royal Show sale by G. D. Lind-
say, of Calingiri, for a North
Bungaree ram, and prices of up
to 2000gns. have not deterred
purchases direct from eastern
studs. As a result, high prices
are in order for top locally-
bred stud rams.
At the last Katanning ram-
sale, Wesfarmers’ catalogue of
180 rams—the largest number
offered by any broker —gained
the highest all-over average of
76gns. a. head, including stud-
ranjs and selected rams.
Included were 14 stud-rams
for Glen Garnett, Glenroy,
Katanning, for a top-price of
570gns. and an average of
154gns. ; 14 stud rams for
N. H. Beeck and Co., Langwell,
Broom#hill (495gns. and
140gns.); and 10 stud rams for
D. O. Gaze, Owendale, Katan-
ning (425gns. and 130gns.).
Other names well-known in
Western Australia, and pro-
minent on that catalogue include:
H. A. Benson and Son, Oak
Park, Tambellup; C. G. Russell
and Son, Yarling Brook, Wicke-
pin; Mrs. L. B. Sutherland,
Loxley, Wagin; David Quarler-
maine, Yardup, Borden; A. E.
Baesjon and Son, Arnwood,
Mount Barker; P. A. Taylor,
Manyfields, Tambellup; W. C.
Fuller, Hazellia, Wagin; D. K.
House and Sons, Privett, Gno-
wangerup ; G. A. Thompson and
Son, Werinda Downs, Broome-
hill; Arthur Johnston and Son,
Niliamongrup, Gnowangerup;
Richardson Brothers, Mianellup,
Gnowangerup; W. B. Stewart,
Glengarry, Borden ; J. D. Stone
and Son, Shooters Hill, Borden.
Add to those, the studs which
sell at other centres and at the
Royal Show sale, and those
which sell only privately, and
the future of W.A.’s Merinos is
obviously in good hands.


As Designers See It
WOOLAND FASHION
Three Italian designs: Left — Gattinoni’s line-tailored suit in herring-boned wool-fabric with a rough surface. Centre — Garnet’s cocktail overcoat in soft, white
wool trimmed with fur and embroidered with diamente and jets. Right — Antonelli’s afternoon-dress in blue wool-jersey.
By CAROLINE COLE
WOOLLEN fabrics have
always played an im-
portant part in fashion,
and no other material
gives such adaptability and
variety in texture and weight,
The versatility of woollen fabrics
lies in their range—from ultra-
fine materials weighing slightly
more than an ounce per square
yard, to “doormafi’-weights for
heavy coatings.
The well-known advantages
of wool are its warmth in winter,
its coolness in summer, and its
ease of handling and draping,
It can be used economically or
m extiavagant quantities, accord-
mg to particular requirements,
The sheatn-dress—high fashion
this season needs only about
two yards of medium-weight,
whereas 50-60 yards of sheerest
wool-muslin may be used in an
evening-gown or wedding-dress,
rmpHHnthpc nnlvrnmp tnlifp
Good clothes only come to life
when they are bang worn It .s
only then that the subtlety of
rfpcion thp put the dranim/the
seSJand the materialsJuv
show fo their best advantage
The art of wearing clothes is to
put them on and forget about
them and you can do that more
easily with wool because it is
comfortable to wear.
Practically every fabric has its
own beauty and its own place in
every'' designer’s affections but
this is what some of the world’s
leading designers from Paris
think about wool: —
Pierre Balmain: “Wool fits
into any picture of elegance,
whether for casual wear or
dressy occasions.”
Raymond Barbas ( Maison
Patou): “Being a living fibre,
wool has the charm of life.”
Christian Dior: “I like wool,
plain or fancy, a vibrant, supple
material of infinite weaves and
infinite possibilities. It is the
most docile and faithful instru-
ment in the dress-designer’s
hands.”
Jacques Fath : “The first claim
I make for my clothes is that
they are wearable, and wool
frequently helps me to realise
this ambition—its adaptability
is unique.”
Schiaparelli: “Wool is the
smartest and the most practical
fabric. It is the perfect answer
to everybody’s problem. Com-
fort! ”
Schiaparelli was the first
fashion-designer to use wool for
evening wear. She startled Paris
and the fashion-world in the
late 1920’s with a tailored red
evening-coat, made in the same
material as a British Guards-
man s uniform.
The first use of wool in cloth
in Eui ope was in the first age of
bronze, 3500-2500 b.c.
Agnes Allen, in The Story of
Clothes, speculates on how the
making of fabrics began.
During the Ice Ages man must
have learnt to cover.himself with
animal Qtinc t atpr pavpmpn
animal-skins. Later cavemen,
usmg only flints fashtoned
needles of bone infinitely finer
and mnre heantifnllv shaned
fhan XoS oftheßronze Am
(Lusands of yeare later), !r
even those of Roman time;.
Neolithic women, expert-
menting with animal-fibres and
vegetable-fibres, probably hit
on the idea of twisting these
fibres into a continuous thread,
leading to the invention of the
spindle.
From spinning threads it was
only a step to interlacing them
by means of a simple loom and
weaving-comb.
From then on there has been
continual progress in all fabrics,
and particularly in wool.
Between the two world-wars
leading fashion - designers of
Paris and London began to con-
sider wool as a “dressy” fabric
suitable for more than utili-
tarian wear in the morning and
at sporting-events.
Chanel used “Kasha,” one of
the first lightweight cloths manu-
factured from a blend of fine
wools. It was a cloth of such
subtlety that Fashionable women,
inspired by Chanel’s creations,
made it a must for their ward-
robes.
Schiaparelli, then in her hey-
day, made young, rather aggres-
sive broad-shouldered suits in
brilliant-colored tweed.
Molyneux was famous for
his “little” woollen dress, in black
or navy, which fast became a
“uniform” the world over.
Gres, an artist in the use of
fi ne wool - jerseys, designed
pleated and draped frocks which
W ere a joy to look at and to
wear.
After World War II Christian
£)j or brought new life to the
fashion-world with his now-
famous “New Look” ankle-
jen g t b day-dresses, nippedi-in
wa j stSj padded hips and very full
skirts. Here again wool was
usec j lined-out with canvas to
mv it the rrisn look
give it tne crisp iook.
Although the original New
Look” has not lasted, its trend is
o t m e Ppn ; n fachinn tnHav
stm seen in rasmon today.
Cbm & is 311 essential o£
taahion ,’ aad in 1956 w . e .. see a
Z °
the 1920 s. Natural y they are
renewed and adapted to be
al “ ost tmrecogmsable as the
rather unflattering snape of the
twenties- ■
t ere * s . . s ° me °t “ I . e
foremost designers interpret this
ne or collections.
Hubert de Givenchy: Every-
thing is soft, bloused or folded,
The interest is mostly in the back,
whdre there are V-shaped pleats,
gathers or flounces, giving free-
dom of movement. His suits
have collarless jackets buttoned
high, quite plain in front, but
with the new V-shaped pleat
starting from the armhole on
either side. Dresses are beltless
as last season, but this time
wrapped around the body,
Fabrics used include loosely
woven woollens in huge
shepherd - checks, hop - sack
weaves, lacy lightweight tweeds,
also lightweight woollens in
plain or faintly mottled colors
and fine wool-ottoman.
Balenciaga: His collection
could be named the “wavering
waist.” Though often around
the hips, the waist is sometimes
raised to below the bustline and
is again seen just a trifle above
the natural line.
Jean Patou: The waistline
higher or natural; panels in the
front give interest to skirts.
Jacques Heim : He has many
high-waisted effects and gives
interest to back-fullness. He
features short jackets on suits,
as does Jean Patou. The fabrics
include lightweight tweeds,
wool-toile, Glen checks, invisible
herringbone (tone on tone) and
jersey-stripes. All these are,
naturally, woollen fabrics.
jhe object of a fashion-
designer is to suggest certain
r ° suggesi wimm
trends, some exaggerated, others
more su btle Naturally it is for
the fashion-consc ouswoman to
ine lasmun conscious woman w
adopt or reject these trends, but
i£ a designer is convinced that
he is right, he will eventually
c °"™ ce hIS p , ubhc ' „ .
it , s in day-wear that a
designer can really go to town in
imposing a new lme-at night a
woman’s first essential is to wear
a dress that is flattering in every
way to her figure, her coloring
and her personality, even at the
expense of fashion.
In these days high fashion is
not only available to the
wealthy. Manufacturing puts it
in every price-range.
America, with a vast popula-
tion of fashion - conscious
women, has shown that all new
creations can be adapted and
made by machine. The U.S. has
large and well-organised whole-
sale factories which manufacture
and distribute to retailers at
varying prices. By their excellent
and up-to-date methods they are
able to adapt all the newest lines,
colors and fabrics within weeks
of the original collections being
shown in Europe.
Paris is the home of the
creator, but America brings
fashion to people in all walks of
life,
In every country there is more
and more manufactured fashion
as opposed to “made-to-order”
fashion-garments. It is because
of their factories that the well-
known designers in Paris, Rome,
and London are able to “live.”
Without manufacture their
creative ,power would be wasted,
as few women can afford to buy
from them direct,
Labor-costs, overhead, etc.,
have put the custom-made gar-
ment beyond the reach of most
people, but the manufactured
garment allows everyone to
choose and change her ward-
robe frequently. For those who
are handy with their scissors and
needle, paper-patterns in the
, t t vl« nr p r^aHilv
very latest styles are readily
available.
In every retail-store beautiful
J
materials abound. In wool they
include coarsely woven, spongy
fabrics fo{ topcoats and casual
S.T/l dIS ZZr
weeds; hard-wearing and attrac-
hve flannels, worsteds and
broadcloths; and for warmer
weather the many closely woven
types such as crepes, poplins and
a f^ca.
The practical and attractive
separates, so much in fashion,
have revolutionised the knitting-
trade. No longer are woollen
jumpers and cardigans merely a
way of keeping warm; they have
been made glamorous as well as
useful. Knitted- or jersey-tops
are worn for all occasions and
range from the cosy fishnets to
the gossamer-fine evening-
sweater heavily embroidered
with sequins, rhinestone and
braid.
Manufacturers and designers
have acknowledged the unique
qualities of Woollen fabrics and
given them a predominant place
in the fashion-world. And they
have an even greater future.


Serving 4 main needs . . .
Private y
Individuals
M
X
St
'v
Business
& Industry
Primary
Producers
Community
Development
I
...Hub of Rural Activities
Whatever your interests—as a private individual ... as a
primary producer ... in connection with a country business or
industry ... or as an active participant in community develop-
ment —you can turn with confidence to The National Bank for
sound, friendly counsel.
With services to meet these four main rural needs, The
National Bank for nearly a century has helped provide a
foundation for financial security, commercial prosperity and
community progress in country areas.
Call in and see your local National Bank Manager regularly.
He is vitally interested in you, and your interests, and will be
pleased to offer you practical advice on any matter concerning
finance.
Whatever your walk in life
THE NATIONAL BANK
offers you Service
on the blowfly, but their efforts
had little or no effect on the
incidence of blowfly-strike in
Australia.
Since it has been shown that
predisposition to blowfly-strike is
largely influenced by conforma-
tion and certain wool-charac-
teristics, it is logical that attempts
be made to breed away from
undesirable features in the breech
region or on the body.
The tendency among Merino-
breeders generally in Australia
has been to breed towards a
plain-bodied type. Photographs
of champion Merino rams at
annual sheep-shows in Australia
over the last 30-40 years show
the trend towards plainness. It
is interesting to note that, at
the same time, there has been no
reduction in wool-production.
Most sheep-breeders now recog-
nise that the plainer-bodied
sheep is hardier and produces
just as much clean-scoured wool
as the wrinkly sheep; that it.
gives less trouble at shearing
and lambing, produces a better
class of cull for mutton, and is
less predisposed to blowfly-
strike.
The best length to dock the
lamb’s tail has been the subject
of considerable investigation,
and there has been much differ-
ence of opinion about the effect
of longer or shorter tails on pre-
disposition to strike. Extensive
trials have shown, however, that
the maximum protection against
crutch-strike in ewes is obtained
by cutting the tail to bring its
tip level with or just below the
tip of the vulva. This relation-
ship of tail-tip to vulva-tip is
maintained as the lamb grows.
Tails cut longer are difficult to
shear clean and the wool left on
tends to dagginess.
The Mules Operation
Shortly after the observations
on the connection between
breech-folds and crutch-strike
had been published, the late
J. H. W. Mules described the
surgical removal of breech skin-
wrinkles to reduce the ewe’s
tendency to urine-staining and
consequent breech-strike. Mules’s
original operation removed the
medial crutch-folds which not
uncommonly extend down each
side of the breech on either side
of the vulva. Other folds of skin
were also sometimes removed.
This was first done with
“Burdizzo” pincers and a sharp
knife, and later with “Rol-cut”
secateurs or an ordinary pair of
sharp dagging-shears. The opera-
tion considerably reduced crutch-
strike in naturally wrinkly-
breeched ewes.
During the past 10 years, there
have been considerable improve-
ments to the operation, now
known as the modified mules-
operation ; this is performed also
on plain-breeched sheep to make
them even less predisposed to
fly-strike. The wrinkles, as such,
are no longer cut off, but a single
strip of skin is removed from
each buttock.
The modified mules-operation
reduces the tendency to crutch-
strike partly by removing the
wrinkles beside the vulva, but
chiefly by stretching and enlarg-
ing the area of wool-less skin
around it—the so-called “bare
area” —so that the wool is drawn
away from the mid-line and from
the stream of urine. This increase
of the bare area is of great im-
portance, and the operation as
practised aims at producing the
maximum stretching of it.
Ip operating, the sheep is held
on a rail at convenient height
Belschner: “Sheep Management and Diseases.”
Samples of wool showing fleece-rot.
in the same way that lambs are
held for lamb-marking. The
hind-legs should not be pulled
back too far, as this tightens the
skin on the breech, making it
harder to lift and cut. The in-
struments required are several
pairs of very sharp sterilised
dagging-shears—6in.-blade for
adult sheep and shorter for
lambs. The shears are kept in
antiseptic solution when not in
use, but no antiseptic solution is
applied to the skin of the sheep
either before or after the opera-
tion. Yard-hygiene and reducing
dust are important, and the sheep
should be operated on in
temporary yards in the paddock,
if possible.
The strip of skin removed
usually includes the medial fold,
but actually the strip is removed
from the same site in all sheep
irrespective of the position, dis-
tribution or size of the fold.
The removal of these pieces of
skin leaves two crescent-shaped
wounds starting about an inch
above the butt and to the side of
the tail and passing along the
edge of the bare area to between
one or two inches below it, and
then turning slightly outwards
to finish on the inside of the leg
just above the top of the ham-
string. The distance between
the cuts should be lin. at a point
approximately lin. below the
bare area.
To start the cut, the shears
are held so that the back of the
hand faces the sheep with the
blades flat against the buttock.
The skin is gathered-in with the
points of the shears assisted by
the thumb and forefinger of the
left hand. The cutting is done
with the heel of the blade. The
commencement of the wound
must be narrow and V-shaped ;
to achieve this, the skin must be
only slightly pulled up into the
blades, the heel of the shears
being kept well down on the
sheep. To leave a wound of the
right width it is necessary to
remove more loose skin from a
wrinkly sheep than from a plain
sheep, and the most difficult
part of the operation is to
remove sufficient skin with a con-
tinuous cut. The skin of the
bare area should not be cut on
any account. There is a certain
knack in performing the opera-
tion which comes with practice,
The shears must be sharp.
A further and more recent im-
provement to the modified mules-
operation is the removal of prac-
tically the whole of the wool-
bearing skin on the upper surface
of the tail. During healing, con-
traction produced by this will
cause the bare skin under the tail
to stretch so that it covers the
end and sides of the tail. The
operation reduces the amount of
urine-staining and facilitates effi-
cient shearing of the tail.
No dressing is used on the
wounds, which usually heal
fairly quickly. The edges of the
wounds start to come together in
two or three days and healing is
usually complete in about three
weeks. For a few days after the
operation the sheep may be
stiff and disinclined >to move.
They continue feeding, however,
and there is little or no loss in
condition. A watch should be
kept for small bush-flies, which
may cause irritation leading to
infection of the wounds and sub-
sequent strike by blowflies.
Sheep of any age may be
operated on, the object being
to treat all sheep in the flock, but
it is best to do them when young.
Weaning-time is convenient, as
the sheep are light to handle.
Sheep of this age, and older,
must be well-crutched or shorn
before the operation. The work
can also be done at lamb-
marking time —but before the
wool gets too long.
Following the success of the
modified mules-operation com-
bined with the medium-length
tail, one N.S.W. stud-breeder
who wished to cut tails short for
appearance’s sake experimented
with a still more drastic opera-
tion in which practically the
whole of the breech-region, was
laid bare, including the dorsal
surface of the short tail.
Briefly, the ordinary cuts or
the modified mules-operation are
joined above the base of the tail
and all the wool-bearing skin or
the tail removed. Although heal-
ing takes a little longer, the end-
result is very good. The two
operations —the modified mules-
operation together with removal
of a strip of skin from the upper
surface of the tail, and the
radical operation just described
—were compared at the Trangie
Experiment Station. The results
favored the radical operation in
a very bad fly-season, but both
operations gave adequate pro-
tection in a milder fly-wave.
The Manchester Method
There is • another effective
method of treating the crutch
and end of the tail. It aims at
extending the bare area around
the vulva and over the end of
the docked tail by the application
of a chemical solution. The work
must be done within a day or so
of shearing or crutching to en-
sure the shortest growth of wool
possible on the areas to be
treated.
An area of woolled skin
adjoining the bare area around
the vulva and the tip of the tail
is swabbed with methylated-
spirits containing coloring-matter
to mark the area to be treated.
The treatment is slow'er than the
modified mules-operation and the
healing takes longer. There is
also more danger of fly-strike
under the scabs unless the time is
carefully chosen. The results
obtained are similar to the
modified mules-operation —an
extension of the bare area by
stretching—and the bare skin of
the tail is drawn on to the top
and over the end of the tail.
This method, which gives a
high degree of protection against
crutch- and tail-strike, has been
patented.
After the measures outlined
have been taken to establish a
flock with the least inherent pre-
disposition to fly-strike, attention
will still have to be given to con-
trolling actual susceptibility to
strike. Shearing and crutching
are well-known methods and
need no further discussion.
During very severe fly-waves,
constant handling of the ewes —
even those treated by the modi-
fied mules-operation or radical-
operation—is necessary unless
additional precautions are taken
against crutch- and tail-strike.
This can be done quickly and
comparatively cheaply by jetting
with one or other of the newer
insecticides, dieldrin or aldrin.
Dieldrin at 0.05 to 0.1 per cent,
and aldrin at 0.1 per cent, will
give eight to 12 weeks’ protec-
tion and, if used in the correct
strengths, are not harmful to the
sheep. When thus used, and at
the rate of one gallon to four
sheep, the cost is from Id. to
2d. per sheep.
Dieldrin and aldrin are also
recommended for the protection
of sheep against body-strike and
poll-strike. Sheep should be jetted
from poll to rump and about
halfway down the sides of the
body with dieldrin at 0.05 to 0.1
per cent, and aldrin at 0.1 per
cent.
Protection against body-strike
is 12 to 16 weeks with dieldrin
and 10 to 14 weeks with aldrin.
The fleece should be thoroughly
wetted.
With poll-strike in rams the
mixture may be jetted on to the
poll using a power-jetting plant
at a pressure of 301 b. to 401 b.
per square-inch. The jetted area
is around the rear-base of the
horns and well back across the
poll. The mixture may also be
swabbed well around the horns
and on the poll by hand. Pro-
tection against poll-strike for 16
to 20 weeks can be expected.
The sheep-blowfly is no longer
the great menace that it was in
Australia, but constant use
must be made of the weapons
now available to prevent the flies
from striking or to render the
strikes ineffective.


✓
\
*
>•' :
I
****?:
w*
I
#
P.A. YEOMANS BUILT AUSTRALIA'S
FIRST CHISEL PLOW IN 1945.
To-day, Yeomans Proprietary
Ltd. make and sell the Graham,
because it’s the best, the greatest
cultivating implement yet given
to the Australian farmer.
EVERY GRAHAM CLAIM GENUINE!
Claims made for the genuine
Graham Plow are based on P. A.
Yeomans’ own repeated experi-
ments with this remarkable imple-
ment extending over a period of
twelve years.
MANY IMITATORS!
Claims made by the many imi-
tators are not based on such facts
or experiments. A side-by-side
demonstration would prove the
imitation implement falls far
behind the genuine Graham in
actual performance and results.
ON FLAT, UNDULATING, ROUGH, ROCKY
OR STUMP COUNTRY —THE GRAHAM
DOES A STUPENDOUS JOB
if Builds a mulch into the soil.
★ Doubles the subsoil moisture.
★ Quickly builds soil fertility.
if Shatters the hard pan.
if Conserves soil moisture.
if Prevents erosion by water and wind.
★ Gives a perfect seed bed easier,
quicker.
if Cultivates from 2 inches to more than
16 inches.
if Cultivates rough country that no
other implement will stand.
if Produces a better pasture—better
crop yields.
RAHAM PLOW
The original and genuine chisel plow is patented throughout the world and manufactured
in Australia under licence from the Graham-Hoeme Plow Co., Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MX 2515 .. . AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
LAND MEN! WE CAN HELP YOU!
Whether your property is located in the dry
Western areas or in the moist Coastal belt,
we can advise you how to specifically culti-
vate your soil and produce better pastures
and crops. Write us immediately or just fill
in the coupon (at right) and send to us for
full facts of the GRAHAM PLOW.
NAME.
B. 30/5
ADDRESS
lState make and model of your tractor)
A DEMONSTRATION ON YOUR OWN
LAND!
The accredited Graham Plow agent in your
district will show and explain to you the
greatly superior features of the genuine
'Graham Plow. He’ll arrange a demonstra-
tion of a Graham behind your own tractor-
on your own land.


m
■-
~C •?'
m
Haddon Rig Special Stud Ram No. 181 will be
offered at the Sydney Ram Sales.
Every successful bid for
HADDON RIG SIRES
is a decisive step to
another highly profitable investment!
Every successful bidder secures Haddon Rig
Sires that are second to none for hardiness,
adaptability, wool characteristics and high
lambing percentages. Every buyer is thus
ready to profit by Haddon Rig’s 74 years of
unparalleled achievement in skilled breeding.
The Stud’s steadfast practices of mating “like
with like” and retaining the finest rams each
year, together with, the fact that only three
classers have been employed since 1882,
guarantees that the most exacting breeder will
be more than satisfied.
At next week’s Sydney Ram Sales, 124
Haddon Rig Rams will go under the hammer.
The six Special Stud Rams are again dis-
tinguished for their remarkably even quality,
and are considered to show more development
than last year’s top rams. Forty Stud Rams
and 78 Selected Rams form the balance of a
team that compares very favourably with any
sent down to Sydney.
All the Haddon Rig Rams have stood up
magnificently to drought and floods, and their
excellent condition again demonstrates that
this strain possesses superlative constitutions.
Whether you will be bidding in person or
through an agent, remember that every buyer
of Haddon Rig Rams is an investor who takes
no chances.
HADDON REG STUD
WARREN, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE: WARREN 74
HR4-56
msm\
AT THE SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW & SALES
STUD STOCK EXPERTS
H. A. GIBSON and A. E. GOODE
will be on hand for
PERSONAL ATTENTION
to enquiries regarding Sale or Show presentation,
buying or selling of
STUD STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OR OVERSEAS
For the Service of Experts, consult
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE
(In c. in Eng. 1863)
CO. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY & BRANCHES
BW 8931 TELEGRAMS: AMLANDFCOY
Branches and representatives throughout N.S.W., VICTORIA,
QUEENSLAND and in SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Overseas offices, LONDON and BUENOS AIRES.
552.58
of wool to be offered in any one
week, and it knows from experi-
ence and from a study of buying-
trends in world-markets approxi-
mately what proportion of the
wool on offer will be going to
various parts of the world. It
would be of little use to have
four or five ships lined-up for
Stockholm, say, and one for
Naples, if Italy is buying and
Sweden is not.
O.S.R.A. plans requirements
as it sees them and its various
member-companies arrange their
shipping - schedules accordingly.
Ships converge on Sydney and
Newcastle as the wool is coming
into store.
Then, when the auctioneer’s
hammer signals that a lot is sold,
the real rush to get the wool
away begins. Wool once bought
at auction gains nothing in value
until it’s in the hands of the
manufacturer in Bradford,
Copenhagen or Yokohama. The
buyer’s one object now is to
order his wool out of store and
get it aboard a ship.
In the days of the clippers,
clerks from the buying-houses
went racing on horseback down
Bridge-street and along Mac-
quarie-place, each eager to be
first in at the store with the
“wool-order.” They still hurry
—though no clerk ever races
nowadays, and horses in Sydney
are reserved either for Randwick
or Harold Park or sold for dog’s
meat —and they still clutch their
wool-orders.
For the rest the system has
been changed entirely. Wool-
orders now go, all of them, not
to brokers’ stores but to the
Sydney Wool Cartage Clearing
House.
That organisation hides itself
away in a couple of rooms at
the top of a winding staircase
(the lift works but sometimes,
and never for a clerk with a
wool-order) on the first floor of
a somewhat faded little office-
building opposite the Sirius
Anchor in Macquarie-place. It
has been functioning in some-
thing approximating its present
form since shortly before World
War I. Its purpose is to co-
ordinate all movement and hand-
ling of wool between sale and
ship, and, above all other organi-
sations, it is chiefly responsible
for the efficient dispatch of wool
for export.
To the clearing-house, a wool-
order is wool. Though it
“handles” 1,500,000 bales of
wool a vear it never sees a single
u i 7uir: never isee;s a single
r , oZen ,> ba .f
crowd the place out). It arranges
for all cartage, and for delivery
and order-forms. On a busy
day the clearing-house will draw
between 12,500 and .15,000 bales
from store.
The system means a
tremendous saving in time and
labor. Without it each of a
hundred-or-so buyers would
need to send individual order-
forms to each person or organi-
sation having anything at all to
do with the handling of his wool,
a IT . rt -.i j „ • •
A wool-order is, m effect, an
order to the broker to release
wool from his store to a ship-
ping-comnanv It is drawn by
ping eunipcuiy. xi is. uiawu uy
the buyer, and on it is marked
the lot-number (from the sale-
catalogue) bale - numbers
utuiogue;, Udic uumucis,
countermarks the name o£ the
ship on which space has been
booked the port of destination
anf any rendering of bate
tha, might be required.
There is a copy for the buyer
himself, a duplicate for the
clearing-house, two for the
broker and two for the stevedor-
firm t ° r dumpers.
Wherever the bales concerned go
in their journey from store to
ship someone with a wool-order
will have a watch on them.
Once it has its wool-order the
clearing-house gets down to busi-
ness. If a form is lodged with
it by one-o’clock, by four-o'clock
the same afternoon it will have
from the broker concerned full
details of the number of bales
to be taken out of store next
day and the time they will be
available. It will also have
arranged a schedule so that the
carters it engages will have a
continuity of work, taking bales
from store to “dumpers” and
from dumpers ’ to ship without
“waiting-time.” The clerks
representing the stevedoring com-
Panies at the clearing-house will
know when their people can
* f
auant tv ’
quantity.
The stevedores or “dumpers”
are engaged by the shipping-
companies. They receive the
wool when the carters bring it
from the brokers, and it is their
business to put it on the wharf-
side ready for loading aboai d
shi P-
Apart from the continual
check and countercheck (always
against a wool-order) to see that
th® right bales have been received
from store, and that they are
correctly marked, the stevedores’
most important task is the
“dnmnine”
Tn bvman it k an odd-
-1 °- the Jf yi P an II an °d
seemlng business. It means
simn | that a hale of wool
t P d f about sft hiah as d
stand,n B about 511. n g a t.
com es from store, and weighing
thj from 3501 b t 0 4501 b is
comnrewe ri to half its size
Ju- P. essed to J . , 1 ;
duET££*?WkS wool
“f CXS, by
nearly half
Durinl£ t ' he war the dumuers
went fur S ther stm double-dump-
in and getting two bales doW n
to little more than half the
norma i s j ze D f one. As a war-
time measure it had its merits,
but s | nce then the wharfies have,
not unreasonably, objected to the
practice.
The dumping is done simply
and quickly by means of huge
hydraulic presses. The bale is
wheeled into the press, jammed-
down to half-size and bound with
three wire tires, Shipping-com-
panies carrying wool to Japan
pay a little extra for a fourth
wire (it holds the bale just a little
tighter and smaller, gjving more
cargo-space on the ships—and,
anyway, wire is valuable in
metal-hungry Japan).
There is nothing very new
about dum ping—the skippers of
the dipper-ships “screwed” down
of wool as the bales
e h . y 1
went into the hold, and some-
times jammed it in so tightly
’ . . T- „
that th e . in expanding,
raise d the deck-timbers.
After dumping, the bales are
stencilled with the name of the
ship on which they are to be
loaded and with the name of
the port to which they are
destined. There is a final check
against the wool-order, then /the
carters are after the bales to take
them to the wharf. A large
dumping-firm will handle about
2500 bales a day when the sales
are on and the wool is “flowing.”
, prmtiwt „
1S a deceptively-simple
system > and one which, in prac-
tice, works with extraordinary
r, n „ a 0
efficiency * Once a bale of wool
is on a wool-order it’s practically
an abso i ute cer t a intv that, out of
- w ' a ~ on he
ca " £
,ocatecl at any sta S e ot lts
journey from store to manu-
fac,urer and ,hal il will
place. It is rare, m any season
!° r m ° re . ‘ han hal£ - a - dozen bales
tO J,° aStray ‘
.™ e system al f° ™ ans that ’
within three or four days of a
buyer’s marking his catalogue
with, the symbol that to him
means “That lot’s mine,” the
wool concerned can be stacked
in the hold of a freighter bound
for the manufacturing centre on
the other side of the world.


★ Notes From The Cellar-Book of
LEO BURING, Doyen of The
Australian Wine Industry.
mjs
LLi
L
m
&
JL
In
£3
a
*£
*
/I
“First all-purpose
wine now national
favourite’ says Leo Buring
"A wine accompaniment can make a success and
an occasion of any meal,” says Leo Buring.
“But hostesses often hesitate on what is a
rewarding adventure for fear of making a mistake
in selecting various wines for various courses.
“It is for this very reason that I developed an
all-purpose wine, the now-famous Rinegolde, a
wine which agreeably accompanies ALL foods.
“It is a light wine, low in alcoholic content,
with a uniqufe bouquet and delicate flavour that
adds to the appreciation of every dish you serve.
Dining in or dining out, dine with Rinegolde.
“58 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE goes into every
wine I blend . . . each one matures no less than
three years in oaken casks . . . each is the finest
wine of its type produced in Australia today. Ask
s
I*o MAV
for my Rinegolde, Hock, Claret,
Sherry, Tokay, Champagne, etc.
There is only one RINEGOLDE,
Australia’s National Table Wine
LEO BURING PTY. LTD.
25 5A GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
i t
IDIELSAIfI
ONE DIPPING LASTS FOR MQNTHSI
If
Protects your sheep from-
LICE «KED« FLY
“DIELSAN” (Dieldrin Dip) is ahead of all others because—
« It gives increased PROTECTION
at LOWER cost
• 640 gallons cost 66/6
• It is the EASIEST to mix—saves
TIME
• It will remain in suspension longer
OTHER
SHEEP PREPARATIONS
‘PHENOSAN’ Liquid Drench.
52.9% W/V Phenothiazine
‘CARBOSAN’ Drench.
Carbon Tetrachloride in
paraffin oil
‘NICOSAN’ Drench.
Nicotine Sulphate and Copper
Sulphate
1 gallon .... 77/6 per gal.
I gallon 32/- per gal.
5 gallons ... 30/6 per gal.
20 fl. oz. .. 14/- per 20 oz.
‘BOOTS’ SI-RO-MARK Branding Fluid.
Red, Blue and Green 1 gallon .... 25/- per gal.
‘MINDIF’ MINERAL LICK BLOCKS.
Trace Elements—highly weather resistant
4ilb. licks, 151 b. licks
BOOTS PURE DRUG CO.
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
376 Eastern Valley Way, Roseville, N.S.W.,
and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Newcastle.
YOU'RE INVITED .. *
to visit the Boots Stand in the French
Pavilion at the Sydney Sheep Show. If you
are not able to be present complete this
coupon and you will receive detailed litera-
ture on Boots - Sheep Preparations without
obligation.
MAH THIS COUPON NOW
Boots Pure Drug Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
376 Eastern Valley Way, Roseville,
N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please let me have literature on Boots
Sheep preparations.
Name
Address
State
appraise the wool in the morn-
ing, before the sale.
While buyers are looking at
the wool a good sprinkling of
growers are moving up and
down the aisles. The growers
have come to see the wool sold,
and, more important, to dis-
cuss with the technical officers of
the brokers how the get-up of
the clip can be improved.
The actual sale of the wool
begins in the Royal Exchange at
2 p.m. sharp. The auctioneer
mounts his rostrum, calls Lot 1,
indicates what he considers its
value, and then takes bids.
When the call of bids subsides
he announces the buyer, and
price, at the same time striking
the rostrum with his gavel to
clinch the sale. He sells 300 or
400 lots an hour.
This procedure takes place
simultaneously in three rooms:
No. 1 room, where big lots (five
bales and more) are sold ; No.
2 room, where the star cata-
logues are offered ; and No. 3
room, where crossbred wool is
normally sold.
The wool sold in No. 2 room
is no different from that sold in
No. 1, except that it is sold in
lots of less than five bales ; any-
thing less than five bales consti-
tutes a star-lot. (The term
“star” derives from earlier days
of woolselling, when lots of less
than five bales were marked in
the catalogue with a star or
asterisk.)
The knocking-down of the
growers’ wool does not end the
brokers’ responsibility. On the
morning following the sale,
buyers’ representatives go to the
woolstores and draw small
samples of those bales of the lots
they bought, but which had not
been displayed. (Only a portion
of each lot is broken open on
the display-floor before a sale.)
If one of these samples appears
different from the type and yield
they have noted in their cata-
logue, the bales in question are
lifted to the top-floor and com-
pared with the display bales.
A simple system of arbitration
decides any point of issue.
Buyers have 21 days to pay
for their wool. On the 21st day
the broker pays his client. If a
strike makes it difficult for
buyers to have their wool
shipped within this period, there
can be a negotiated extension of
the 21 days to ensure that the
maximum buying-strength will
be available at the sales.
All but 12 per cent, of the
Australian clip is exported. The
bulk of wool, therefore, moves
from brokers’ stores to the
dumps, where each bale of about
3001 b. is compressed to half its
size.
The underlying character of
woolselling is dynamic. It must
always remain so to meet chang-
ing needs and circumstances. In
an industry such as wool these
changes are seldom sudden.
They take place over decades.
Changes which have held the
attention of the trade for a con-
siderable time are the subdivi-
sion of big estates into smaller
holdings and the growth of the
mixed agricultural - pastoral
economy on the slopes and
tablelands of N. S. Wales.
In some respects this develop-
ment has caused a deterioration
of overall wool-quality, even
though it has added consider-
ably to the quantity of wool sold.
In its turn it gave rise to pro-
blems of clip get-up. Some
small wool - prpducers are
acutely conscious of the need
for proper classing of their clip,
but others are inclined to hap-
hazard measures of classing.
Only a few small growers can
make up a lot of five bales or
more which can be sold in the
No. 1 sale-room, where the
senior bidders operate.
To overcome this, classing-
organisations have been estab-
lished in Sydney which provide
growers with a classing-service
for a small charge. The wool
received by these organisations
is expertly classed and grouped
with identical wool of other
growers to make big lots. Each
grower is then paid according to
his weight of wool in the lot.
About 83 per cent, of all wool
sold in N. S. Wales is sold under
the owner’s station-brand, the
balance being sold under the
brand of a classing-organisation.
There have been few breaks in
the Australian woolselling-
system. The major one was
during World War 11, when the
Governments of the United
Kingdom, Australia, New Zea-
land and South Africa acted in
unison to acquire the Dominion
clips.
The job was to acquire all
wool produced, appraise it and
pay growers on the basis of a
predetermined valuation. Brokers
and buyers combined to make
the organisation work smoothly
and efficiently. After the war
growers pressed for a return to
open auctions, and this was
soon effected.
Many people complain today
that wcolselling has become
prosaic—that there is no color,
personality or fire in the pro-
ceedings. That is only a surface-
observation. There are personali-
ties in dozens in selling and
buying. Excitement is there, too,
for the initiated. How could it
fail to be? In an afternoon
over £1 million will change
hands from buyer to broker, to
be passed on to the grower.
A sale in any of the major
selling - centres of Australia
attracts the attention of the
world. Cables flash to and from
buyers and their principals;
huge credits are arranged by
overseas and Australian
bankers; shipping has to be
scheduled to lift the wool to
Hamburg or Liverpool, Kobe or
San Francisco.
The color, the fire and the
personalities are still there, but
are submerged by the very mag-
nitude of woolselling-operations
and their objective— to get the
highest price for the Australian
clip.
RAMBOUILLETS FROM THE U.S.
By RAY BLADWELL
Following the lines of the
early breeders of Merino
sheep in this country, but pos-
sibly using better foundation-
stock, I imported some pure
Rambouillet rams from the
United States in 1951 and
joined them with Australian
Merino ewes.
I have been asked by The
Bulletin to put on paper my
reasons for importing Ram-
bouillets. They are, briefly, as
follows:
The Rambouillet ram,
Emperor, did a great job of
work for the Peppin brothers
when he was joined with Wan-
ganella ewes in the middle-
1800’s. Why not, then, some
hundred years later, repeat
the experiment? The reunion
of bloods could be of value to
the entire sheepbreeding-indus-
try. I think it will be.
Since the pure Rambouillets
were imported to the United
States, they have been bred pure,
but because of the economics of
sheepbreeding in the U.S., where
carcass-value plays such an
important part, the breed there
has been developed with a bias
towards conformation, size,
vitality and bone-development.
In Australia, during the same
period, our major consideration
has been to pack wool on a
sheep, the carcass being the
secondary consideration. By
uniting these two strains again,
it may be possible to have a
type with all the good poinis
that we have developed in Aus-
tralia, married to the hardiness
and natural resistance that
appear to be characteristics of
the half-breds we hope to
stabilise.
The fact that fine wool (and
the American Rambouillet
carries wool of 70’s to 80’s
quality) grown in the United
States is a low-yielder, and com-
parable quality grown in Aus-
tralia is high-yielding, is no
doubt due to climatic environ-
ment and the physical constitu-
tion of the soil. If this
conclusion is correct —as I
believe it is—it makes the
future of our fine wools very
secure. From the point of view
of the manufacturer, high-yield-
ing wools are important.
I really feel that the good
Lord gave us something in this
country which is unchallengable.
Even if we exported sheep, other
countries, with the possible
exception of Russia, could not
produce a fibre comparable with
Australian wool.
Regarding overall production,
it is possible that other parts of
the world could increase their
wool-production* but the farmers
of Germany and elsewhere in
Europe and in the United
States (pre-war, the second-
biggest wool-producing country
in the world) cannot economic-
ally increase production as we
in Australia can. It is likely
that woolgrowing countries in
the Southern Hemisphere are in
the same position as we are,
but I see no country in the
Northern Hemisphere, because
of the sheep-per-acre cost of
their grazing-country, likely in
our generation to step-up pro-
duction to an extent anything
like what one can visualise in
this country in the next 10 years.
So, within the framework
of an expanding industry, these
latter-day importations of Ram-
bouillets may play an important
part.


THE HUNTER WONDER RAGE
* 1 \
For Drenching, Drafting and Loading
.■■4
■
:
in
msmmm
9
X V
**m* < ••y' : : ||§p
ssa&W®
iiasfilH
:■<
w - ~
r''* ; ««Mfe K .
<■"
- ,;
iSlfeill lIIsIMIII ■’*
II a? ,-.
"• 'ZL v avx%< o <•' --^4
<*4*
Pat. No. 15111 /’55
This race makes the handling of sheep for drenching effortless. You can drench 100
sheep through the Hunter Race in the time it takes to put 100 sheep into the conventional
Yard Race.
There is no staining of wool, sheep run freely as the released sheep are always visible.
It is portable. Can be taken out to the paddocks and used with a portable yard or
wing fence. Use it in the shed or in permanent yards. In a few seconds it can be adapted as
a loading ramp. Each Sheep is caged for whatever operation you wish to carry out. Drenching,
Mouthing, Jetting or Footrot Immersion.
Operation is by foot pedal and trip release. Race is lOJft, long and wide enough for
any sheep. ■
Supplied with loading board and two-way drafting gate
PRICE £59/15/-. F.O.R. Grenfell or Quandialla
Trade inquiries invited
TRESILIAN & DUN (Grenfell) Pty. Ltd.
MANUFACTURING AGENTS
BOX 76, P. 0., GRENFELL (N.S.W.)
MUDINGS
IN EASY, STANDARDISED, INTERCHANGEABLE
STEEL BUILDING UNITS
I
THE FAMOUS
STEEE-FEtAIM
Ready-to-Erect
Shearing Sheds
This is only one of a number of shearing shed
layouts a team of handy men can erect econ-
omically and rapidly using the well-known
STEEL-FRAIM Standardised building units.
Everything is made easy to follow by painting
the various foundation, wall and roof members
distinctive colors—even the doors are complete
with locks and hinges ready for bolting.
If you want a larger shed, or a smaller shed, or
a different arrangement of pens, shearing board
and wool room, let us show you how simple it
is with STEEL-FRAIM. ~ '
•weaTin* pens
fMM
K
• ' *Tnrn k *H«A*Mnfo 6oard
|noujnaTbuj
■OOk ,6TO*»
ItAADINC
PUTfQRM
or HER
STEEL-FRAIM
BUILDINGS
) SHEARERS' HUTS
) UTILITY SHEDS
) MACHINERY SHEDS
COUNTRY COTTAGES
* AND HOMESTEADS
Plan what you want, how you want it—and add
extensions at any time with Sidney Williams'
Standardised steel building units now being
/>
deygned, fabricated and erected by . . .
'
Bo was Constructions Ltd.
Williams Parade (off Constitution Road)
DULWICH HILL, N.S.W. LM 5204
inheriting the tradition of
William Cox, of Clarendon, who
bought Waterhouse’s flock bred
from the importation of 1797 —
his rams sold at record prices as
early as 1803.
In the 1860’s there was a new
burst of activity after the bitter
memories, of the “hungry
’forties” had died down, the
gold-fever had somewhat abated,
the fight with scab was on the
way to being won, and sheep
were moving into the interior
and the north.
New money, new settlement*
were creating a demand for
more and better sheep, and with
the end of the convict era also
went the days of the bone-cheap
laborer.
It was with the advent of the
great improvers who came in
between 1860 and 1880 —the
Peppins, Austin and Millear,
Falkiners, J. D. Campbell,
Learmonlhs, Curries—that the
real period of experiment
developed nation-wide charac-
teristics.
Meanwhile, Tasmania had
developed, at one early stage
round 1820, a much bigger
sheep-population than N. S.
Wales. The importation of the
bulk - shipment of Camden
Merino stock (which was sent
down in 1820, and paid for by
Governor Macquarie with land
at 7s. 6d. an acre in the choicest
part of the Camden district) was
the beginning of the develop-
ment of a stud-business which
made the island’s influence
greatly felt in the mainland
efforts to put wool on the sheep’s
back.
The early Tasmanians favored
Saxon types. Gilles and Horne,
in 1823, brought over a ship-
ment of rams bought from the
Elector of Saxony ; Leake im-
ported from the same flocks in
1823.
The classic shipments of the
Cressy Company in 1826-27
were epoch-making. Archer,
Kermode, the Taylors (of
St. ‘Johnston), Gatenby, Mercer,
the Learmonths (whose stock
at Ercildoune later did so
much for Victorian wool) all
owed much to the Cressys. Their
stock, in turn, was the staple
foundation of improver-blood in
many a famous Commonwealth
flock.
Other Tasmanians who influ-
enced mainland breeding were
the Furlonges (German Merinos)
and the Hentys (whose sheep
came from the blood of the
Royal, ~ Merinos at Kew and
furnished some of the first stud-
sheep exported to Victoria and
Adelaide, where the pioneer
flockmasters were Fisher and
Handcock).
The Spread of Sheep
In 1828, at the beginning of
the great drought, N. S. Wales
exported 843,0001 b. of wool,
and the cut-per-sheep was not
much better than that of the
Macarthur sheep of 1820 on the
average." In the 1830’s it began
to show a steady per-sheep
improvement, soon passing the
31b.-average. But the conditions
under which sheep spread in
primitive wildernesses over the
face of the continent was for a
long time strongly against an
ordered effort to cull and breed
to specific types except in the
more settled districts, where
there were improved properties.
Between 1800 and 1,860 the
sheep-population increase was
from 2000 to 20,000,000, and
during the 1840-60 period there
had been territorially a great
spread out into new country
with experimental periods and
a fight for subsistence under the
most primitive conditions, far
from conducive to improvement
in yield and quality.
Victoria in 1836 held some
41,300 sheep and lambs, mostly
carried from Tasmania by sea or
driven overland from N. S.
Wales. By 1851 it had 6,000,000
(the numbers fell-off somewhat
in the next decade under the
impact of the gold discoveries,
which denuded stations of labor)
and was exporting 18,000,0001 b.,
or not far short of what Britain’s
principal supplier, Germany,
had been sending to London 30
years before.
South Australia began to get
sheep by means of long droves,
like that of Bonney along the
Coorong route in 1838. The
increase here was just as remark-
able. From. 28,000 in 1838, the
S.A. flocks grew to 2,800,000 in
1860, and Where the South Aus-
tralian Company had exported
70 bales in 1840 —worth Is. 4d.
per pound—in 1860 the colony
produced 11,731,0001 b.
Queensland made a beginning
about the same time. In 1839
its sheep-population was 4000;
by 1843 these had only increased
to 12,000; in 1843 the droves
over the New England began,
and by 1844 there were 184,000
—more than 110,000 on the
Darling Downs. By 1849' the
sheep-population was about a
million—ss3,ooo on the Downs,
290,000 in the Moreton Bay
District, 204,734 in the Burnett,
and even 8500 out in the
Maranoa. By 1860 number
was nearing 3,500,000.
There were some sheep in
nearly all of what are now con-
sidered the sheep-areas of the
vast State—and many in districts
which have wisely gone out of
sheep. Some of the Queensland
sheep were very poor speci-
mens ; it is notably, in the light
of the numbers, that wool-
production for 1860 is given as
only 5,000,0001 b., or 1.431 b. per
sheep, including lambs.
It was a good many years
before Western Australia was in
the race. It had only 260,000
sheep in 1860, did not pass the
million-mark till 1879 or touch
the 5,000,000-mark till 1910.
Improvement Saves Industry
The numbers of Australian
sheep doubled between 1860 and
1870, but the production of wool
almost trebled. Between 1870
and 1880 sheep-numbers rose by
half, but wool-output more than
doubled.
In the next decade the sheep-
increase was again a little over
half, but this time the wool-
increase did not keep pace with
it. It was, however, a period of
drought, flood, industrial dis-
turbance, and economic uncer-
tainty in a changing world.
This period, indeed, marked a
check in -the wool-industry
which was to send it into a
decline during the restless times
of floods and strikes of the
’nineties, together with the first
real growth of closer-settlement
impinging on the wool-districts.
The year before Federation
saw the industry at its modern
nadir —with only 70,000,000
sheep, or 27,000,000 fewer than
10 years previously.
- It was then, more than at any
time in its history, that the Com-
monwealth had to thank the
improvers for their services to
the country. For, despite a fall
of 26 per cent, in the number
of animals, the drop in
wool - production was only
17,000,0001 b., or 3.6 per cent.
It was notable that Victoria,
where the sheep-population fell
in. the 10 years from 12i-
million to under 11-million,
actually increased its wool-
production from 63,000,0001 b.
to 90,000,0001 b.
Queensland, whose sheep had
a 9-to-5 falling-off, had only a
drop in wool-production from
67,000,0001 b. to 65,000,0001 b.
W.A. had a loss of 200,000 in
sheep-numbers, but added more
than 30 per cent, to wool-output.
Since then yield-per-sheep has
continued to improve. By the
time sheep - numbers reached
100,000,000 for the first time
early in the 1920’5, the overall
average based on actual numbers
was about 91b. per animal-
-103,000,000 sheep in 1925, with


Highlights
of the
SHEEP SHOW
SHEEP
Our Stud Stock experts will be in attend-
ance at the Sheep Show and Ram Sales.
MERCHANDISE
There is a most interesting display of a
wide range of farm requisites.
SEED
A full range of farm seeds will be on
display.
FAT STOCK
Watch the results secured for fat stock
consigned to the N.Z.L.
New Zealand Loan
& Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
(Incorporated in England )
38 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
Telephone: 8U5141
.
■
H
m
m
vsSm
I
it’s the cloth that counts . . .
you can always depend on
quality worsteds
GLOBE WORSTED MILLS PTY. LTD. Offices and Weaving Mills: Barclay St.,
Mardckville, N.S.W. Combing and Spinning Mills: Gordon St., Marrickville, N.S.W.
GLOBE
well over 900,000,0001 b. of
greasy wool for the year.
In 1936-37, the first year in
which the billion - mark in
pounds of greasy fleece was
exceeded, there were some
110,000,000 sheep, and pro-
duction for the year was
1,023,390,0001 b.
The 1890's saw a considerable
change in the nature of clips
and in their sources. In 1893
there was estimated to be
1,500,000 superfine- and stud-
combing Merinos in the country,
5,500,000 ordinary fine- and
stud-combing total combing-
types of about 39,000,000,
against 54,000,000 clothing-
types.
In the years round Federation
the rabbit came in force. More
than 10,400,0001 b. of rabbit-skins
was exported in 1904, and the
pest was increasing.
Closer-settlement, too, was
completely changing the make-
up of wool-output.
The famous big-station clips
were disappearing, from the
market, to be replaced by large
numbers of farmers’ clips, a
tendency which the trade
regarded unhappily.
At the same time, with
increasing population in Europe
and elsewhere, the Australian
market was more and more con-
solidating itself in the world-
market.
The sheep-population of Ger-
many, for instance, had fallen
off from 25,000,000 to 5,000,000
between 1890 and the years
immediately before World War
I, while the German consump-
tion had gone up from 50,000
tons to 200,000 tons with the
growth of the spinning-industry.
In 1825 Germany was the
biggest seller of raw wool in
London ; by 1910 Germany was
Australia’s biggest customer for
wool.
The tendency in wool-types
was, by then, giving cause for
worry, but the local market was
challenging its critics and
demanding practical demonstra-
tion that it would pay as well to
produce very fine wool as the
broad and bulky wool of the big
and robust sheep to which
growers were increasingly lean-
ing with the cutting-up of
estates and the growth of the
overseas mutton-market.
The difference in prices for the
broad and bulky and that for
very fine wools was not such as
to encourage the breeding of
the latter types. The importa-
tions of various German, Ram-
bouillet and American sheep,
together with natural evolution,
had tended to work for a more
robust style of Merino and
larger carcass.
The year 1911-12 is a good
one at which to pause and
survey the wool-scene. The
sheep - population of the
Commonwealth was about
92,760,000.
The clip for the year was
662,845,9071 b. The cut-per-
head, sheep and lambs in the
grease, averaged 7.41 b. (as it had
the previous two years in Aus-
tralasia), as against 61b. 9oz. in
1907-08. For comparison, the
United States cut, exclusive of
lambs, was 6.981 b.
The progress during the pre-
vious 15 years had been pheno-
menal. The number of bales
produced per 1000 sheep had
increased from 16.75 in 1896-97
to 21.8 in 1911-12. The number
of sheep necessary to produce a
bale in 1896-97 had been just on
60; now it was only 46.
The Merino Wins
Yet 1911-12 was a gloomy
year, full of forebodings. The
rabbit threatened to eat-out the
industry. “Artificial silk” was
mentioned with a certain ner-
vousness. There was some
doubt whether the deterioration
in quality, the trend towards
coarser wools, would not pre-
sently lose us our market.
Higher costs of labor and
materials and rising freight, and
also the change in fashions, gave
rise to doubts, but at the same
time acted as a spur and a
challenge.
Water - supply, artificial-
pastures, feeding and, above all,
breeding to meet the market and,
latterly, high prices, have all
contributed to miraculous
changes.
The industry in 1911-12
viewed wryly the changes in
fashion which were ousting the
frock-coat and the formal blues
and blacks of city-wear for
cloths more suitable to the new
outdoor life on the road which
the motor-car was beginning to
introduce. It saw with grave
misgiving the decline of the pro-
portion of Merino-wool (which
was down to 72 per cent, of the
clip of Australasia). It saw
mixed-farming impinging on the
wool-areas; also it regarded the
growth of population with some
doubt about the future effects
on wool.
All these fears proved ground-
less. The Merino has held its
own. Despite the existence of
about 10,000,000 pure Long-
wools in the country, the cut
was 75 per cent. Merino-; and
25 crossbred- and strong-wools
in 1953-54. At the same time
there is certainly an overall
percentage-decline in production
of wool in the 64- to over 72-
count range.
In assessing the position
on these figures it must
be remembered that the only
States in Which the ratio of
Merino to crossbred and strong
wool is worse than 83 per cent,
are Tasmania and Victoria.
Queensland wool sold last
year was 99 per cent. Merino,
N. S. Wales 93 per cent., S.A. 91
per cent., and W.A. 92 per cent.
The Australian average was 75
p.c. , Merino. Yet this Merino-
cohtent has been kept, with an
average increase of cut-per-sheep,
(lambs excluded) of nearly 2£lb.
per animal on 1911-12.
Despite all the dangers which
seemed to loom in the decade
with which 1911-12 opened the
Australian sheep is now a 30-to-
-40-per-cent.-average better pro-
ducing-animal than that of 1911-
12, and the Royal Merinos which
arrived in 1805 are scarcely to
be classed beside the present
sheep as wool-bearing machines,.
After 160 Years
Australian sheep-numbers last
year were 129,700,000, against
about 92,000,000 in 1911-12.
Cut-per-sheep had gone up
steadily. In N. S. Wales it
touched 81b. for the first time
in the abnormal year 1913;
B.Blb. in 1927 ; never again fell
below B.llb. after 1935.
The Australian average passed
10-J:lb. for the first time in 1952-
53. No State except Tasmania,
which is now not a predomin-
antly fine-woolled State, has in
these days an average per animal
under 91b. South Australia has
not had a year since 1946-47 in
which its cut has been less than
11.511 b.; in one year it was
13.141 b., Vhich is nearly twice
that of the best average of the
Royal Stud top Merino rams
at the Kew sale in 1804, when
the first Macarthur purchases
were made. In fact, the South
Australian average would have
been regarded as phenomenal
for a first-class yearling ram 60
years ago, and it would have
beaten the best cut by a stud-
ram sold at the 1804 sales of
the Royal Merinos at Kew by
5.51 b.
Thus, among Australian
sheep, of which it took 120
animals to produce a modern
bale in 1820, 75 animals in 1860,
60 in 1896 and 46 in 1911-12, it
now needs only about 30 over
the average of 129,000,000 to do
the job (but the bale
was 20-251 b. heavier in
1911-12). In South Australia the
number is only 26. The return
per sheep in 1911-12 was only
52d. That was 20d. below the
price of a single pound of wool
last season.
The wool-cheque for six years
ended 1911-12 for Australia and
New Zealand was £176,000,000.
For the past six years, ended in
the 1954-55 season, it was
£2,379,800,000.
Sheep have increased in
numbers since 1911-12 by 40 per
cent. Wool-output has increased
in terms of pounds-weight by
90 per cent.


NOW! Correspondence
TV
for the Countryman!
When television is established, opportunities will occur
in country centres for trained technicians. Anticipating this,
the Marconi School of Wireless has completed a thorough
correspondence course covering every phase of television,
and including three weeks intensive practical training on
TV equipment at Sydney or Melbourne. You can start your
training NOW by merely asking for a special booklet
giving complete details.
COMMERCIAL OPERATOR’S COURSE
Since 1913, the Marconi School of Wireless has trained
hundreds of young men who have secured Certificates of
Proficiency to fulfil positions as radio operators at sea, on
land and in the air.
You may take advantage of this Commercial Operator’s
Course also by correspondence. Ask for details.
FILL IN AND POST COUPON TODAY TO:
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
G.P.O. Box 2516, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 1674 N, Melbourne.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
Please send me your FREE Booklet.
BLOCK LETTERS
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
conducted by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED.
Grasslands
Seeder
'X
m
ml
m
m
m
fc
§t
For Economical Pasture Improvement
The Grasslands Sod Seeder places seed
and fertiliser beneath sward or sod with-
out previous cultivation. This precision
seeding ensures maximum growth, no
waste, no erosion risk, and no loss of
grazing. Band placement of fertiliser at
9in. centres places the fertiliser in a “lode”
at 4 times the concentration that would
be obtained if it were broadcast. This
ensures the optimum phosphate level and
results in maximum growth of seedlings.
Over 600 N.S.W. farmers purchased Grass-
lands Sod Seeders during the past 12 months.
The results of last season’s sowings under
a variety of soil and climatic conditions is
proof positive of the theory of sod seeding.
The Sod Seeder gives positive variable
control of the amount of seed and fertiliser
used per acre. Tliree-point linkage for
maximum mobility.
SEE THE GRASSLANDS SOD SEEDER, AND ALL OUR PASTURE
IMPROVEMENT AND PASTURE IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT AT
THE SHEEP SHOW
GRASSLANDS FARMING EQUIPMENT
"First in Grass Farming,"
25-27 FAIRFIELD STREET, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W. YU 8251/2/3
earlier in the winter, under
harder conditions and with
lower lambing-percentages.
The lamb - producer also
requires quality of carcass and
fleshing without excessive fat.
Here the stud-breeder has suc-
ceeded in developing a type to
breed consistent with these
characteristics: a thicker, deeper
carcass, better covered over the
shoulder, with greater width
over the loin, more meat on the
hindquarter and carried well
down to the hocks, shorter legs,
and a thicker and shorter neck.
With firmer-handling fleshing,
the stud-breeder has improved
quality and handle of wool. But
any tendency to increase wool-
production should be strictly
avoided.
The general improvement in
fleshing includes, of course,
elimination of coarseness and
excess fat. Early-maturity has
been improved. Nowadays
Dorset Horn crossbred-suckers
are marketed as early as three-
Belschner: “Sheep Management and Diseases
SOUTHDOWN
and-a-half-months,, whereas
lambs sired by the older-type
ram required up to five months
to mature for market.
Demand for rams is unsatis-
fied in all districts in N.S.W.,
from the plains to the slopes and
tablelands. A- measure of the
demand for Dorset Horn rams is
the Australian-record figure set
by the breed for stud- and flock-
rams at auction, £l2OO and
69gns. respectively.
Another indication of their
value is their placings, first,
second and third, in the class for
lambs by shortwool rams other
than Southdowns in the 1956
R.A.S. export - lamb carcass
competition.
Southdowns
By E. Telford Simpson
TTHE Southdown today is the
unchallenged breed for
best-quality lamb and mutton
throughout the world.
• One of the oldest commercial
purebred sheep of England—
originally from a restricted area
of the South Downs—this small
breed has been developed over
the last 150 years to a high
standard of excellence.
John Ellman (born 1753) of
Glynde, near Lewes, County
Sussex, was the first to recognise
the potential value of this small,
hardy, native breed for the eco-
nomical production of quality
mutton. His work in type-and-
quality selection for improve-
ment of the breed may be com-
pared with that of Bakewell in
his selection and breed-improve-
ment of the English Leicester.
Ellman established the South-
down’s reputation for hardiness,
economy of feeding and excellent
mutton-quality. From the natiVe
Sussex sheep-small, speckle-
faced and pointed, slab-sided,
narrow-backed and lacking in
covering—he developed, by
selection, a compact, solid-
bodied' well-sprung sheep, well
covered with a dense, even, fine
wool.
Much attention was paid to
the quality of the covering, as
he contended that fleshing-
qualities and wool-qualities were,
to a degree, related; and to this
day successful breeders have
found that to a great extent this
principle of selection is still an
excellent indication of fleshing
and type.
Such was the reputation of
Ellman’s Southdowns for eco-
nomy of grazing and quality
mutton-production that breeders
in other districts began to im-
prove their native breeds by the
use of Southdown sires. The
Shropshire and the Suffolk are
two well-known modern breeds
that testify to the excellent con-
formation and mutton-qualities
given them by Southdown an-
cestry.
New Zealand, probably the
world’s largest user of South-
downs, has, with the growth of
the export-lamb trade, developed
the use of the breed to an amaz-
ing extent. There were only
five registered Southdown-
breeders in 1895; today the
Southdowns are second only to
the Romney in numbers of
registered purebred sheep.
Strangely enough, the first regi-
stered flock was imported from
Australia in 1863 —100 ewes and
three rams.
The export of frozen - lamb
spurred the development and
use of the Southdown sire in
N.Z., with the emphasis on
quality. A restricted home-
market meant that expanded
lamb-production had to be ex-
ported on a competitive world-
market.
In Australia Southdowns are
acknowledged as ideal sires for
fat-lamb carcasses. In the earliest
days of the Australian wool-
industry they were among the
British breeds" which put the big
frames on to the local sheep,
helped to endow them with
strong constitutions and so con-
tributed to increasing the cut of
Australian wool per sheep. The
Reverend Samuel Marsden used
a Southdown ram in his experi-
ments in the first decade of the
century. Governor King men-
tioned the breed more than once
between 1800 and 1803 in his
essays on the prospects of wool-
growing.
In competitions Southdowns
have shown they can get good
lambs from practically any kind
of ewe and under widely varying
conditions. They provide small
joints of mutton and lamb un-
equalled by any other breed,
and their pre-eminence was
acknowledged before the war by
a premium for their lambs.
Carcasses by Southdown rams
have won the champion-award
every year since 1932, when the
Golden Fat Lamb Trophy was
introduced at Sydney’s Royal
Easter Show.
The value of the breed as sires
is further highlighted by the fact
that lambs by Southdown rams
have won the championship in
every Australian Meat Board
competition. There were 21
entries in the last Meat Board
contest, and the lowest marks
awarded Southdowns were still
more than the marks given pens
entered by any other breed.
Romney Marsh
By J. Robinson
AWARDS in Australian
export - lamb carcass-
competitions regularly go to
lambs from Romney Marsh-
cross ewes. *
A long-woolled, hornless breed
of sheep has been kept on
Romney Marsh, in Kent, from
time immemorial. Though it has
poor, sandy soil in some parts,
the area consists mostly of fine,
rich pasture, never turned by the
plough, and on which sheep are
bred and fattened.
The old Romney sheep had
many good points, and was a
most valuable breed for its
environment and the purposes
for which it was reared. It needed
a pasture of unusual richness,
which was found in these
marshes. The produce in wool
and the thickness in stocking—
up to seven or eight fattening-
wethers to the acre were
scarcely equalled in any other
breed or situation. The breed
was very hardy, and required no
artificial food during the hardest
winter except a little hay.
However, there were many
points which a sheepbreeder
might wish to see rectified, and
this was achieved by the gradual
infusion of Leicester blood.
Thus was developed a greater
depth, roundness and symmetry,
earlier maturity and better
fatten ing-qualities a smaller,
deeper, closer, a more compact
sheep, heavier, and maturing a
full year fcarlier, with a wool
improved in fineness and color.
The old breed of sheep was
substantially improved.
Outstanding qualities of the
modern Romney Marsh are its
hardiness and stamina. It has
been refined in type; and con-
formation, fleshing and quality
of covering have been improved.
In Australia, stud Romney
Marsh sheep imported from New
Zealand have played a large part
in this development.
The Romney Marsh, since it
was first introduced to this
country, has proved its adapt-
ability to Australian conditions,
and there has been aa immense
increase in its popularity since
the advent of superphosphate
and pasture-improvement. It is
a sheep with excellent conforma-
tion, being deep in frame, with
well-sprung ribs, and it is also
an excellent milk-producer, so
essential for lamb-production.
These characteristics, with the
breed’s traditional ability to


MERINO STUD
Established 1856
POLL MERINO STUD
Established 1952
m
m
*■ . *
%
!S?*SS
s*'**
BagMiiii
a«
§»
J -„ ' /;, *7; i' s-( 'Vs*>:
>- \ '■£j v* ,V' <> ;' i&f&Xh} j£>; 'i *■■ J "A ~'
- ' <* S -> ' ;£ iffi* Jl , i 'jSf'fc' ~i «* <>)>> v’^v
■ ■:•■ ■■'■:■ : ..
* wi. x A
, 'f-g* '"> *£'< *'*’’><» vl "■*.~
£t> >' >
A , . <|m 14s*
.-: , • -,.:' I ',,/ .#■ A: .':• ■ '• ■' -fv |: : -V - %' :
. :.: : , : : \#: ::■
&< *' ' . < , vwv ' *•?* V , *$
Hi
;>: .<* ;<y iv i* x • ; '. ■'
Untouched Paddock Photograph of
SPECIAL STUD BOONOKE POLL RAM 3.5
Purchased for WORLD RECORD PRICE, 2800 GNS.
This Ram carries a glorious fleece of 60’s wool outstanding for style
and quality.
Welltown Stud has won numerous Championships and other
prizes for wool at Brisbane Exhibitions and Melbourne Shows.
You Are Sure of Top Quality If You Use
WELLTOWN RAMS
WILLIAM LEONARD AND SONS
WELLTOWN—-GOONDIWINDI—QUEENSLAND
mmm
M
“I ordered this 6-Stand Out-
chute Shed , selected my site , and
MORROW’S Skilled Team of
Experts are doing the rest”! .
PREFABRICATED SHEARING SHEDS
Available with any number of stands
from two upwards.
WOOL ROOM
rf cmgT»
{ ROOI
r^\.f
u
Illustrated above is a typical design and floor
plan of our standard 6-STAND OUTCHUTE
SHEARING SHED.
The practical designs MORROWS feature are
all based on the advice of leading sheepmen
throughout Australia, and the entire structure
is designed to allow maximum light and ven-
tilation. They are built to accommodate any
type or make of shearing equipment.
Consult us on all steel building
requirements.
—An entire service from Drawing Board
to the Completely Erected Building.
From the moment you decide on the
type and size of shed you require,
Morrow Steel Buildings take over.
All necessary materials are freighted to your pro-
perty, without delay. A team of highiy-skilled
tradesmen then erects the building on the site you
indicate.
First the concrete foundations are laid and the
framework erected. The Portal-type framework, de-
signed by a qualified civil engineer, is of drawn
steel tubing. Steel cleats and brackets are welded
on to take the first-grade hardwood beams. The
frame is constructed as a unit —does not depend on
timber or covering for strength and is braced to
prevent the heaviest machinery vibration.
For walls and roof, 26 gauge corrugated iron is
used. At intervals along the roof, large corrugated
plastic skylights are set —the number of which
being governed by the size of the shed. Flooring
is constructed of the finest first grade hardwood
timber. The interior is completed with tubular
steel catch pens with mesh panels, sweating pens,
loading platforms at wool room and engine room
doors, separate engine room, yards, chutes, ramps,
shelves and doors.
IN G S
DIVISION OF i. MANNING PIY. LTD.
N.S.W.: The Boulevard, Kirrawee, SYDNEY
'Phones: LB 7387, LB 7860, LB 7862
QUEENSLAND: Rex Buildings, Wickham St., Valley,
Brisbane 'Phones: L 2901, L 4238
withstand footrot, make it
increasingly important with the
change in our knowledge of
animal husbandry and pasture-
improvement.
Substantial expansion in lamb-
production must be expected
from the higher-rainfall slopes
and tablelands, where there are
considerable areas to be im-
proved by topdressing and
pasture-improvement. Over
Selschner: “Sheep Management and Diseases.”
ROMNEY MARSH
recent years the breed has found
increasing favor, especially as
sires, in the high country and on
the irrigation-areas.
The establishment of an im-
proved type, together with the
demand from fat-lamb-breeders
for Romney first-cross and grade
ewes, has gradually brought
about the more common practice
of breeding to grade Romney
Marsh flocks,
Generally speaking, the
Romney ewe is expected to cut
an average fleece of about 101 b.
(though many sheep cut more
than this), to rear up to 100 per
cent, of her lambs, and not
merely to rear them but to rear
them so well that most will go
prime off their mothers,
Further, the Romney ewe
must possess that vitality which
will enable her after weaning to
flesh-up readily for the lat-
market if old enough, or, li not
so old, to be ready again quickly
to stand the strain of the next
season’s lambing. Moreover, the
sheep have to do all this while
being carried as thickly per acre
as the pastures will permit.
MOBILE VETS
By H. G. OSBORNE
IT is now generally recognised
that the application of scien-
tific principles is an essential
part of the efficient manage-
ment of farm or station, and
stockowners realise that the
services of a scientific consultant
can help to solve the most
important problem of stock-
raising—increasing production
with lowered costs.
The scientists most concerned
with the livestock-industry are
the members of the veterinary
profession. Veterinary - practi-
tioners are now established in
most dairying-districts, but with
sheep and beef - cattle the
position is quite different. In
the sheep-districts there is a thin
scattering of Government
veterinary-officers, and an occa-
sional private veterinary-practi-
tioner, but the average grazier
would very rarely see a veter-
inary-surgeon, and would have
some difficulty getting one if he
tr j ed
This is a remarkable position
in View of the fact that these are
our major livestock-industries.
That the sheep-industry is so
free from problems that veter-
inary-services are not required is
obviously untrue, The overall
lambing-percentage of sheep m
Australia is of the order of 60
per cent.: it could be, and often
is, 80 per cent, or better.
It is known that approxi-
mately 10 per cent, of the
nation’s rams are abnormal in
ways which reduce their breed-
ing-ability, and an even larger
percentage are mated at a time,
or in such condition,'as to render
their fertility considerably be-
low normal. Every sheepman
knows that every year something
happens in his flock which
causes financial loss, and which
is not satisfactorily understood
or accounted for.
The major disease-complex
causing serious financial loss to
the sheep-industry is infertility,
It is so common that graziers
have grown to accept that the
Merino sheep is “naturally”
poorly fertile, and that little or
nothing can be done about it.
Figures of 60 per cent, or so are
considered “normal,” and lower
figures are blamed on the season,
the pigs or some other uncontrol-
lable phenomenon,
The knowledge necessary to
increase lambing-percentages on
most properties has been avail-
able for 15 years, but the appli-
cation of this knowledge, where
and when it was wanted, has
been lacking. Recently veter-
inary-surgeons, working in co-
operation with the owners of
western Queensland properties,
have doubled lambmg-perc -
ages where lambing had been
poor, and increased peicen age
w h®[ e wer ® a^ ea J B°P '
h he Queensland Veterina y
School is training future vete
inary-surgeons and has also
started a mobile service for
graziers where other veierinary-
practitioners are not rea 1 y
available
This long-range vetennary-
service will operate anywhere,
and work on any problem, pro-
vided the costs of travelling wil
be economical for owners. The
« OTk (°™ s e if “I°*
problem of infertility
beef _ cattles as wel ,
ag other flock _ pro blems of
econom j c importance,
This work is often of a long-
t£rm natur£j and
non-urgent, in
th£ senS£ that it can be planne d
- n adva nce. Consequently,
severa j p roperties can be visited
on £acb tr j Pj and travelling-costs
divided among clients ; thus, long
distances can be covered at low
cost—if 1000 miles are travelled
in visiting five properties, this
represents only 200 miles per
grazier, which is not excessive,
This service is not the final
answer on veterinary-services to
the more sparsely-populated
areas of Australia, but it is a
means of providing for the needs
of graziers who would not other-
wise have access to a veterinary-
practitioner. The final answer
will be the establishment of
practitioners throughout the
sheep- and cattle-areas.
For the work of the long-
range veterinary-service the
University of Queensland has
available a staff of three veter-
inary-surgeons and two specially-
equipped vehicles, one designed
for general country practice, the
other a mobile laboratory.


IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
the Wool and Livestock service of
WESTRALIAN FARMERS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
is unsurpassed
WOOL BROKERS
STUD STOCK BUYING
and SELLING BROKERS
Branches in all major country centres.
Agents in all districts.
Stud Stock Representatives in all States, Tasmania,
New Zealand and Great Britain.
We welcome enquiries in respect to Purchases, Transport,
Insurance, etc., on Stock business.
Consult us on Sheep Classing and Valuations of Stud Stock.
WOOL SALES HELP REGULARLY
Wool Stores: South Fremantle and North Fremantle.
HEAP OFFICE: 569 Wellington St., Perth.
Cable and Telegram: WESFARMERS, Perth.
Melbourne Office: Central Arcade, Collins St.
London: Overseas Farmers Co-op. Ltd., Fenchurch St.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
"I didn’t realise that such a safe and
convenient service could be so economical!”
So many of our clients have told us this, that we would like to
have the opportunity of explaining to you the
MAYNE NICKLESS
/ '
PAYROLL DELIVERY AND BANK
DEPOSIT SERVICE
[You, and your staff, will welcome the freedom from all risks
of violence and injury. You will be surprised and pleased at
the moderate cost, which includes full insurance until wages
are paid.
Please ring us for one of our representatives to calf at your
convenience.
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
"For Every Transport Need"
80-138 York Street, South Melbourne
Telephones: MXYIBO (50 lines)
572 King Street,
Newtown, Sydney.
LA2402 (15 lines),
64 Hughes Street,
Mile End, Adelaide.
LU7312 (2 lines)
62 Blackall Street,
Broadmeadow,
Newcastle.
Hamilton 694.
264 Latrobe Terrace,
Geelong.
Geelong 4454.
68 Cordellia Street,
South Brisbane.
Jl2Ol (3 lines)
Morwell and
Broken Hill.
to get it on its feet; if it is fly-
struck he will treat it; if it is
dead he will recover the skin, or
at least the wool, and bury the
carcass, reporting the loss to
the overseer or manager next
morning at the staff-gathering
for the day’s orders.
At this gathering information
gleaned from paddock activities
is passed on by the staff in
reports to the manager. In the
event of trouble affecting any
flock the manager may order the
flock to be yarded and may allot
staff to work on it.
Good stockmen are skilled
men at their work. An experi-
enced man understands and
knoyys sheep - habits, whether
in the paddock, on the move,
in the yards or in the shed. He
should also be skilled in the use
of his dogs in mustering, drov-
ing and yard-work, and he
should be a good man with
horses. s
On the more compact stations
the stockman is also boundary-
rider for the paddocks he is
working; he looks after the
fences and maintains them in
sheep-proof order.
Frequently, the stockman may
also be required to assist in any
number of jobs on the station.
Apart from sheep-work, it may
be necessary, for one day a week,
to concrete a race, repair gates,
oil windmills, load oats into a
silo, take a tractor and rip
rabbit-burrows, mow grass, or
drive a truck for the day.
Some stations have a distant
or detached area which is usually
referred to as the outstation. An
experienced stockman is put in
charge of this, and a cottage is
provided. Yards may be built,
and the area can be operated as
a semi-self-contained unit.
Boundary-riders are employed
mainly on big runs, where they
maintain, for example, fences,
distant yards, huts, fence-
crossings at creeks, etc. They
may be called on to assist with
sheep when necessary.
Constant maintenance of
buildings is necessary, the
manager‘making regular inspec-
tion. His observations are dis-
cussed with the station-
carpenter, who does repairs and
any necessary painting.
'A windmill-mechanic may be
employed if there are sufficient
mills in use, and a motor-
mechanic may well be needed on
the modern mechanised station.
Buildings and Yards
Many buildings are necessary
for the efficient operation of the
station.
Its living - accommodation
includes the homestead, perhaps
a separate manager’s house,
overseer’s cottage, station-hands’
cottages and single-quarters.
Shearers’ quarters are quite
separate from quarters used by
the station staff.
Other buildings include
shearing-shed, many store-
rooms, workshop, butcher’s shop,
blacksmith’s shop, dairy,
engineroom, garages, sheds for
machinery and implements,
stables and harness-rooms.
The sheepyards adjoin the
shearing-shed, and other yards
may be located on different
sections of the property.
The homestead is the nerve-
centre and station-headquarters
from which the owner-manager
or manager operates. The office
may be at the homestead, or it
may be detached from the
residence. The overseer’s and
staff’s cottages are spread out in
the fashion of a village.
Cottages, some partly-furnished,
have bathrooms, water laid-on
and, often, electricity.
Shearers’ Quarters
Shearers’ quarters are built to
specifications stipulated in the
Shearers’ Accommodation Act;
they are generally near the wool-
shed, which may be half-a-mile
or further from the homestead..
Separate accommodation is pro-
vided for the shed-overseer and
the woolclasser and, usually, for
the shearers’ cook.
Shearers’ sleeping - quarters
must provide for two shearers
only to each room of specified
size, lighting and ventilation.
Furniture is also specified,
and ablution-rooms must provide
efficient and sufficient facilities
for hand-washing, showers and
baths. The laundry must have
a copper and sufficient troughs.
The dining- and mess-room,
cookhouse, scullery, ration-store
and butcher’s shop must also
conform to specifications.
The Accommodation Act
further lays down the cutlery
and crockery to be supplied by
the station; also the cooking-
utensils and gear required by
the cook, and a list of first-aid
items.
The Woolshed
The most important building
on a woolgrowing station is the
shearing-shed, or woolshed. It
is here that the annual revenue
is produced, in the form of baled
wool for sale. An easily-worked
shed, with good natural lighting,
and equipped with efficient
machinery and power, is an
absolute essential.
The shed should provide:
(a) Pens to hold overnight
sufficient sheep for a day’s shear-
ing ; otherwise contractors may
quote a higher price. Rain-wet
sheep mean delay and expense,
because shed-hands are paid on
a weekly basis.
(b) Catching-pens facing the
shearers on the board.
(C) Wool-rolling tables close to
the board to, expedite throwing
shorn fleeces on the wool-table
for skirting and rolling.
(d) Piece-pickers’ tables so
placed that pieces, are easily
accessible from the woolpress.
(e) Woolclasser’s table
centrally placed by the wool-bins.
(/) Woolpress, scales and wool-
storage room. The movement of
fleeces from bins to press should
be as short as possible. The scales
for weighing bales should be near
the press—also the stencils, ink-
blocks and brush used in bale-
branding. Sufficient bale-storage
for two or three days’ shearing
should be available.
(g) Engineroom. This is used
by the shed-overseer as his head-
quarters. It contains an engine
or electric-motor to drive the
machinery, and is also equipped
with a double- grinder, a work-
bench with leg- or hand-vice,
boxes for tools and spare-parts,
and shearers’ accoutrements. As
the overseer is usually the
“expert” also, it is customary for
him to provide his own kit of
tools, although the station may
provide some.
( h ) Facilities for easy loading
of woolbales on to trucks.
(/') A counting-pen for each
shearer, into which he pushes
shorn sheep through a chute
in the shed-wall.
Whereas old-type sheds were
low-set, modern plans call for
floors sufficiently high to permit
shorn sheep to be held under-
neath during cold, wet or frosty
weather. In raised sheds there
is the added advantage of having
the woolroom floor at about
tray-level of trucks, which can
be loaded simply by rolling out
the bales.
A large area of the shed must
be used for holding sheep at
night. This area is divided into
lanes and many pens (sweat-
pens). Pens are separated by
rails, or by gates easily, but
securely, fastened. The floor of
the pens is made of 2in. x
battens spaced fin. apart to
allow droppings to fall through.
The rest of the shed is covered
with flooring-boards from the
shearing-board to the woolroom.
The engineroom usually has a
concrete floor.
Good sheepyards adjoining
the shed are essential, and there
are many designs for their
layout.
All pens and yards must have
sheep- and lambproof fences,
preferably constructed of sawn
timber with 4in. x lfin. rails
bolted to sin. x 3in. redgum or
other such posts sunk into the
ground at about 6ft. intervals.
Races
Drafting-races may have one
or two drafting-gates to permit
a two- or three-way draft of
sheep. Drafting-gates should be
both light and strong. The
drafting-race should be at least
12ft. long, and narrow enough
to prevent sheep turning in it.
The bottom of the race should
be concreted or of grouted brick-
bats. Some races are 16in. wide
at the exit, or drafting-end, and
some are adjustable in width. A
triangular forcing-pen giving an
angled side to the race helps to
force sheep down the race for
drafting.
Classing-races are necessary
on any stud- and flock-breeding
station. Concreted or brick-
batted underneath, they are
useful for any kind of inspection
as well as for classing. The use
of three parallel, adjoining races
makes it possible to run sheep
in the outside races, while
inspecting, raddling, etc., can be
done from the centre. When
sheep are shorn and counted-out
they are moved to a branding-
race and branded for
identification.
Counting - pens facilitate
counts of sheep shorn by each
shearer. The shearer works four
shifts, or runs, daily. At the end
of each two-hour run the shed-
overseer counts out and records
the tally of shorn sheep in each
pen. Shearers are then paid on
these tallies.
Dipping-yards adjoin, or are
close to, the main yards. Water-
supply and drainage are neces-
sary for both swim- or shower-
type dips.
The killing-pen is often near


ADD PRESTIGE
TO YOUR STUD
Enter the . .»
AUSTRALIAN
FLEECE
COMPETITION
Royal Melbourne Show
SEPTEMBER 20-29,
1956
Entries close Friday,
31st August
•
Classes provided for all
qualities of fleece wool
Excellent prizemoney and
trophies donated by
National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers.
•
Sectional schedules now from:
The Secretary,
Royal Agricultural Society of
Victoria,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
/"(X
M
=V.
\%
Xb-
. 'l -T
'Vi
->:•
g|§Pfe?J§P
Wjr^wri
OfSL^
T^>
Men in Wool
the shearer ..
Sixty-six clips ago at Dunlop station on the Darling
below Bourke, sheep shearing machines whirred for the
first time at a general shearing in Australia . . . The team
of tough, hard-drinking, profane nomads of tjie blades
refused to handle the new-fangled contraption ... for three
weeks they fished in the Darling, and denounced the
scab machines while the cod nibbled the baits.
For years they had been content to shear from 6 a.m. to
6 p.m., Monday to Friday, and to 4 p.m. on Saturdays
for 12/6 per 100, and to blow-up their cheques at the pub
before they left Bourke. But the whirring shafts and
combs and cutters could not be silenced, and with the
march of time the new-fangled shearing era effaced the
colourful days of the blades.
Ernie Rogers typifies the shearer of today . . . mechanical-
minded, drives his own Holden to the sheds, brings his
own carefully prepared combs and cutters . . . shears a
complete fleece without a second cut and without nicking
a single sheep . . . works July to October, then goes
home to shear his own small flock on an 800-acre block
bought with his savings from shearing. Dalgetys is proud
to sell his clip of 15 bales . . . it is one of the best
prepared small lots on the show floor.
svccttswi rfiMr/Htr/vrfo#
FOOIROT SCALD
Easily and quickly applied. An antiseptic astringent
with prolonged healing action. Does not wash off, stain
wool, or irritate operator’s hands or sheep. 25/- tin.
Chemists, stores, or Sykes Drench Ltd.', South Melb.
CyhtPemwe
** IT STICKS THEN IT PENETRATES. p/61
THIS EASY WAY-
(25 yds. per minute) j
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1000
As TasT as you can squeeze its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy -f in. rings, which are automata
caliy fed into the jaws. There is no wastage job is quick, neat and strong.
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
the yards. It should have a
concrete floor with water and
disinfectants available. There
must be a device for raising the
sheep for skinning and cleaning
and hooks and gambrels must
be provided.
Station Outbuildings
The workshop is important. It
should have a concrete floor,
good light, shelving and benches,
and should be well-equipped with
the common tools and facilities
for their storage and mainten-
ance. There should be a wide
range of bolts, nuts, nails, etc.
Storerooms should hold stocks
of parts and replacements for
equipment in use. Groups of
equipment are often stored
separately for convenience.
A nbmber of buildings or
sheds are also required for
stabling and harness, horse-
vehicles, machinery and imple-
ments, chaff-house and black-
smith’s shop. Then there are
the inevitable horseyards, with
feeders and water-troughs, and
a stockyard with crush and
loading-ramp for horses and
cattle. Two other important
units are the cowbails and
dairy.
Seasonal Occupations
At defined periods of the year
certain key-operations must be
done. For a Merino-breeding
station it may be best to deal
with these in chronological
order: joining, crutching, care
of ewes and feeding, lambing-
down, lamb-marking, classing,
shearing and dipping. »
The date of joining rams with
breeders depends on the most
suitable time for the lambs to
be dropped. In southern areas
of Australia it is late autumn or
early winter, depending on the
break of season. The chief con-
sideration is that early rains
will produce a short, sweet grass
easily digested by young lambs.
The lamb-drop is of prime
importance in planning. The
object of the breeder is to gain
a high percentage of lambs
dropped within a limited period.
Calculations are based on the
fact that ewes come in season
approximately every three weeks.
By leaving the rams with the
ewes for six or seven weeks a
higher percentage of joining
results ; also a higher percentage
of lambs. Further, the lambs
will be much of a size, requiring
only two markings, or even one,
and there are no very young
lambs to be taken off their
mothers at weaning.
The number of rams used
depends on seasonal conditions
and size of paddocks. Normal
practice is to use two or three
rams to 100 ewes many
stations use an average of
per cent. Lambing-percentages
are increased where the ewe-
flocks are regularly mustered —
say, once a week. On small
properties farmers frequently
yard the ewes overnight.
Rams should be in forward
condition before joining, but not
fat. They should be dipped at
least six weeks previously;
otherwise fertility may be
affected, as is also the case where
rams are fly-struck before join-
ing. Attention to the rams’ feet
is important, as a lame ram will
not travel and will not work.
The selection of rams is the
key to improving wool and im-
proving flocks. It should be
made by the manager or classer,
who should select virile, robust
rams most likely to nick with
the breeders to produce desirable
qualities in the progeny. It is
poor economy to buy cheap
rams, which are probably culls
or near-culls.
Humid weather in summer and
autumn encourages the onset of
fly-waves, and it is necessary to
protect sheep, particularly ewes,
by crutching.. With ewes, the
long, stained wool is removed,
and also the wool above the
udder and teats. Some stations
have two crutchings, but if there
is only one it should be about
five months after shearing.
In-lamb Ewes
In the pre-lambing season
stockmen must be in the ewe-
paddocks frequently, so that the
ewes will become accustomed to
man and vehicle moving about.
Assistance will be needed for
ewes going down or unable to
get up if lying in a depression.
It is necessary to watch for
troubles such as twin-lamb
disease or milk-fever.
Twin-lamb disease is due
chiefly to nutritional deficiencies.
Milk-fever is due to a mineral
imbalance, largely of calcium.
In the latter case ewes go down
at the hindquarters, and will die
unless injected with calcium-
borogluconate. This disease has
been avoided by use of calcium
salt-blocks.
The ewe should be fed for at
least a month before lambing—
she is expected to produce a
lamb and continue to grow
wool. Many stations feed oats
once or twice a week over this «
period. The oats should be run
out in a big circle well away
from the water. However' the
types and rate of feeding vary
considerably, much depending
on the feed available in the
paddock.
Lambing
During lambing stockmen
should move quietly through the
ewe-paddocks each day, with
dogs in the gig and not on foot.
They should watch for ewes that
are down or are having delivery-
troubles. ‘All cases should be
investigated.
A ewe with milk-fever may be
down after lambing and the
lamb may have died, but the
ewe can be saved by milking
her and giving her an injection.
Maiden-ewes are very timid,
and if suddenly disturbed may
leave their newborn lambs as
crow-bait. All lamb-deaths
should be reported, and the
carcass buried or placed in a
crow-trap.
A number of lamb-deaths
should be immediately investi-
gated by post-mortem.
Lamb Marking
Marking represents a definite
stage in breeding, as only
marked lambs are recorded in
stock-tallies.
It is advisable to mark lambs
at four- or five-weeks —if left
too long big lamBs are set-back
by marking. Two markings are
therefore arranged, the first
taking in about 70 per cent, of
the drop.
Lambs should be marked in
their own paddock, where they
are mothered early and quickly
with the least upset. The secret
of paddock marking is to use
portable yards. The prepared
material is taken to the paddock
on a truck, and the yards are set-
up while stockmen muster the
paddock.
It is necessary to start early
and finish early ; two operators,
with two catchers, should mark
at least 400 lambs before lunch.
For marking, operators and
catchers are supplied with over-
alls by the station. Operators
should use a strong antiseptic
kept in a tin of water tied under
the marking-board. Earmarking-
pliers, knives, clams and dagging-
shears for mulesing should be
constantly disinfected during
operations.
It is a good plan to have
separate operators for ewes and
rams, catchers taking the lambs
to the operator concerned. In
this way docked tails are thrown
into separate heaps for ewes and
wethers, thus ensuring separate
counts for sexes. Tails are not
docked where only one testicle
can be found for removal from
the ram-lamb, and the long-tail
indicates a stag.
Catchers should not bring
very young lambs to the board.
Lambs with no teeth, or with
two milk-teeth just showing,
should not be marked, especially
if being mulesed simultaneously.
(Each week, for four weeks, a
lamb produces two milk-teeth.)
Protection from fly-attack is
secured when the lambs are
mulesed at marking, and experi-
ence shows that the added opera-
tion has little more effect on the
lamb than marking only. For
lambs it is better to use-the modi-
fied mules operation with tail-
stripping only for badly-wrinkled
lambs. When mulesing as well
as marking, more operators and
catchers are needed in order to
finish early in the day.
Operators should dock ewes’
tails longer than for wethers.
When marking ram-lambs some
operators slit the purse; others
slice-off the end. The latter
method is preferred, as the tes-
ticles are easier to remove and
draining is better. Catchers must
drop lambs on all four feet after
marking; a catcher should be
instructed on the best method of
holding lambs, both for mark-
ing and mulesing.
The essentials for good mark-
ing are good handling and
operating and the constant use
of disinfectant.
Classing
On a flock-breeding station
sheepclassing refers chiefly to the
selection of young ewes as
breeders. They are inspected in
the classing-race at about 15-
months, just before shearing,
(Continued on next page )


The
Willandra Stud Flock
Property of Freehold & Leasehold Lands
Pty. Ltd.
The Stud flock was founded some 40 years ago on
pure Wanganella blood.
The Willandra sheep are bred in a 13in. rainfall
and are entirely grass fed. The Western plains of New
South Wales where “Willandra” is situated is renowned
for the large framed sheep which it produces. The
Breeders have aimed to produce a large, plain bodied
type of ram, carrying a good front, having a covering
of 60-64’s type wool and a good open horn sheep.
Flock Rams bred in this Stud produce sheep of
the highest commercial value.
Drafts of rams are sent annually to “Mitchell
Downs” Station, Mitchell, Queensland, which is used as
a depot for distribution to large numbers of the
Company’s clients, and full particulars of all grades of
rams on hand there can be obtained from the Manager
of “Mitchell Downs,” Mitchell, Telephone No. 2
Mitchell. *
New South Wales clients are served from
“Willandra,” and telegraphic communication is to
“Willandra,” Hillston 9.
4 BRIDGE STREET
SYDNEY
vv
<w -ss*
&
and
isenVio'
(nocWns'V
A Graziers'
Organisation
GRAZ COS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
Grazcos, built by practical graziers,
is organised to provide dependable
services to the Pastoral industry.
The strength of the organisation
lies in its membership of nearly 7,000
woolgrowers.
In brief, Grazcos services include:
o SHEARING '
0 WOOL CLASSING
AND POOLING
• ANIMAL HEALTH
• MACHINERY
Details of these services gladly
supplied on request .
GRAZ COS
CO-OPERATIVE LI MITE D
46 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
90-92 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
CNR. ADELAIDE & CREEK STREETS, BRISBANE
BRANCHES AND RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVES AT:
N.s.w. AIBURY. ARMIDALE. BOURKE.' DUBBO, MOSEE, QUEANBEVAN
vir BALLARAT CAMPEROOWN. ECHUCA, HAMILTON, SWANI HILL
BLACKALL. CHARLEVILLE, LONGREACH. ST, GECR&i
when nearly full-woolled. The
ewes are run up the race, and a
man is detailed to hold each ewe
for inspection.
It is customary to cull one-
third of the annual drop of
ewes. A ewe will be raddled as
a cull for bad conformation or
faulty covering. A runt, or any
sheep with a number of faults,
must be culled as unsuitable for
breeding. Even though the con-
formation is sound, the ewe may
be culled for wool-faults.
In selecting breeders the ideal
is a healthy ewe with big roomy
frame, well set-up, with square
stance and an even covering of
the type of wool desired by the
breeder.
Yearly culling removes doubt-
ful breeders and ewes with reces-
sive characteristics; only ewes
classed for high standard of con-
formation and covering are
selected as breeders.
Culls should be specially ear-
marked for identification, and,
preferably, should be disposed
of quickly.
The manager maintains an
annual record of average fleece-
weight of flocks by ages arid
sexes, and it is important that he
compare fleece-weights of classed
ewes from year to year, making
due allowance for seasonal and
unusual factors.
It is obvious that there is
little the manager can do about
yield and other factors affected
by seasonal conditions, but
should there be a steady decline
in weight, evenness and trueness
of the wool his only recourse
may be to buy rams from
another stud.
Shearing
Shearing is the most important
operation, representing, as it of
course does, the culmination of
a year’s work on the wool-
growing station and its results
producing the main revenue.
The manager is anxious to dis-
cover the extent of improvements
in wool-weights and fleece-weight
per head over the previous year’s
averages, as an increase in the
average cut per head will mean
a corresponding increase in the
wool-cheque.
In theory, the station-manager-
should be able to leave the
running of the shearing to the
shed-overseer, handing-over the
sheep at the shed-door and taking
them after they are counted-out.
In practice, the manager will
exercise an unobtrusive super-
vision through the shed-overseer:
The shed-overseer controls the
whole shed, but the woolclasser
is delegated to control the shed-
hands and the presser. These are
the two executives with whom
the manager discusses the station
views, drawing their attention to
matters affecting the clip.
Preliminary instructions from
the manager to the overseer
might include: >
(a) Shear over the tail when
shearing the first leg.
( b ) Report all mutilations of
sex-organs or hamstrings.
(c) Avoid second-cuts.
id) No legging of sheep from
the catching-pens.
( e ) Ensure that pizzle-drain-
ing hairs of rams are not
removed.
(/) The penner-up is respon-
sible for sheep once in the shed
and for closing all gates inside
the shed.
(g) Arrangements for mail,
meat and rations.
( h ) Duties of the hutkeeper.
(0 Order of shearing of flocks,
It is a good idea to give the
woolclasser last year’s wool-book
for guidance, and let him peruse
the wool-sale report, specifica-
tion-list and, possibly, account-
sales. The ordt r r shearing, and
any points likely .o affect class-
ing and skirtings can be discussed,
The classer must be told of
the weight of bales desired, how
the bales are branded, and what
records are to be kept. Other
matters for discussion would be
storage of bales and frequency
of refnoval; mention should be
made of faulty throwing of
fleeces, as it affects skirters.
The station-manager should
give the overseer and classer a
typed copy of the order of shear-
ing usually listed by paddocks,
showing ages, sexes and numbers,
On the classer’s copy it will help
if bulk counts are indicated.
On the station side it is
essential to plan to have sheep
standing by, ready for shedding
as each paddock is cut-out. The
station-overseer and head-stock-
man follow the order of shearing,
which becomes a sort of move-
ment-order, and the stockman
will have moved a mob of woolly
s h ee p into the yards, ready for
shedding, at least four hours
before the mob being shorn in
t h e shed is cut-out. To do this,
time- an( i space-calculations are
necessary.
it m ay be required to bring in
eWes and lambs for drafting
before shedding. In addition,
some s t a tions draft-off the ewe-
iambs from the wether-lambs,
shedding them separately. This
gives a check-count against
marking-tallies, and shearers take
more care when lambs are sexed.
When shedding from the
yards the sheep are run up a
ramp to the shed-door. They
run better up an incline than
down or on the level.
The stockmen are responsible
for getting the sheep in the shed,
but the penner-up is responsible
for dividing them up into pens
so that they are not. over-
crowded ; he must see that all
gates are closed, particularly
where two different mobs are
in the shed. Stockmen usually
help the penner-up, who may in
turn assist the stockmen to shed-
up. Either way is a friendly
gesture.
When sheep are counted-out
by the shed-overseer, stockmen
move them into the branding-
race. Here they are checked on
earmarks, according to paddock-
allotment, and then branded.
When branding, use only a
fluid which will scour-out, which
can be used on wet sheep or
in the rain, and which will remain
legible for 12 months. Tar-
brands and paint should not be
used, as they will not scour-out.
They will eventually leave a
smudge on fabric and will ruin
the cloth ; and there is a penalty-
deduction on the wool sold.
After branding, the sheep are
check-counted out to the shorn-
sheep yard, and are then turned
into a shorn-sheep paddock,
which is usually well protected
with trees.
After a night in the shed, sheep
are hollow and looking for a
feed. Unfortunately, the sheep
shorn in the final run of the day
are often released at dusk, and
there is no time to fill then
stomachs. During a cold snap,
A t} } sleet orfrort, shorn sheep
Wlth empty stomachs may suffer
severe hardship, and number,
hav f died » especially fat sheep.
Under such conditions it is safer
to put the last run of sheep shorn
under , cover * or “
a ? hed ° r , under , the shed ‘ floor
h ,s high enough,
Dipping
Dipping is compulsory under
the Dipping Act in Victoria and
in other States except N. S. Wales
and Queensland. In these two
States, however, many stations
dip their flocks. In Victoria, it
is required that all sheep and
lambs be dipped off-shears, or
within 60 days of shearing if held
in a secure paddock. The inten-
tion is to prevent incidence and
spread of lice and ked.
A new regulation forbids the
sale of lice-infested sheep at the
saleyards. sheep
lose condition, and, from rubbing
and biting, their wool becomes
clotted, is difficult to shear, and
carries a price-penalty from the
buyer.
There are two general forms of
dips in use—the swim- or plunge-
dip and the shower- or §pray-dip.
The shower is as effective as
the swim provided the pressure
is maintained and the sheep are
sprayed long enough for satura-
tion. Best results are obtained if
the wool is short—i.e., within
three or four weeks after shear-
ing.
Where possible, it is always
ecftnomic to do two operations
in one. Dipping with gammexane
will control lice and ked, and
afford immunity from fly-attack
for five or six weeks. Gam-
mexane is also obtainable mixed
with D.D.T. D.D.T. is a fly-
repellant and -killer, whereas
gammexane kills maggots when
hatched.
In conclusion, it will be
realised that in the v foregoing
description of station objectives
and achievements, in the nature
of a survey of main issues and
operations, some matters have
been dealt with briefly, and
detail has been possible only by
way of explanation.


TASMANIAN MERINOS
The Backbone of the Fine Wool Industry
A great majority of the high priced fine wool clips of
Australia owe their success to the r
infusion of
TASMANIAN SAXON MERINOS
Year after year, clips using rams from
“WINTON”
“VALLEYFIELD”
“RHODES”
“KENILWORTH”
“PLEASANT RANKS”
establish records at wool sales
The following Australian Seasonal wool record's have been established by
these clips using Tasmanian Rams
1956
SCOTT 369 d.
10 bales over 200 d.
1954
ED| 255 d.
55 bales over
150 d.
1955
SCOTT 420 d.
101 bales over
IOOd.
1953
VALLEYFIELD 367 d.
All fleece over
IOOd.
1952
VALLEYFIELD 287 d.
45 bales over
150dL
This season many clips have lines making over 200 d: per lb.
The famous Superfine Merino Clip branded LI ROC made up to
360jd. with 23 bales making over 200 d., while
the O/ROC clip sold up to 218 d. with
14 bales over 200 d. and 122
bales making oVer
150 d.
TASMANIAN FINE MERINO BREEDERS 1
ASSOCIATION
J. S. MILLEN, Secretary,
1-21 St. John Street,
LAUNCESTON
Phone: LAUNCESTON 81121 TASMANIA
REGISTERED FLOCK No. 60
THAIIOH
DIRRANBANDI
1
CRINO
/Z
§1
7
k
% nil I -
«0- - -
\ „>/ , w > ■
-\ K .n -A4-
<&{ Pf* £-■ ~
*nr?rm°sg
w??
53
lv>
Ith
ran
Sj'Mj
UTu
1 • •..
oANCLfDO'OL
arc 4
<■«<
*/
i'V
5
JVA
5^
'fi
iff
<4
,/V
/I
6
V”<o
U
ifT ;N^S-W ;
iWa-; ■ ...•■ aS'-,T
•Or
nCDUARINEBRI
p
*/ 5 I
K,
bE
nVT
W%
v
WJ
u
V 6 I
Ml
>: /
WaRRAN, . *
'‘/P'hA'j "■
'Aamkim
> **<2
/; r
iVvfc'
//I
BOURkt
/■
<Wf
? /
Oh
’AM
N JUKI.
/1
$ :-\
ft.
s>/
? i '
tft i
>iV
m
Kn
m
An
iM
Vi
< !
05
5x
t/s
/!'
Sfl
VV
: n ; *
-A
II
>2
■v
«x
\ Vt ‘"
r-f^vY
_ .- » * " \F/ * i
\ >1 -
Mogila Sheep have been bred by Major G. M. Richmond at Goodooga (14in. rainfall) for 46 years, from foundation stock
bred by his father, the late James Richmond, at Haddon Rig, Warren, and Gingie, Walgett.
Ram buyers may have their rams delivered on rail at Dirranbandi, Walgett, Rrewarrina or Pokataroo.
For further particulars apply:—THE MANAGER, MOGILA STATION, GOODOOGA, N.S.W. ’Phone: Goodooga 4.
cottonbush and saltbush, with
the danthonias, corkscrew-grass,
barley-grass and some trefoil. In
good seasons barrel-clover grows
on some of the self-mulching
soils. The general run of the
Boonoke soil is a grey, self-
mulching clay, with patches of
harder red soil and sandy ridges
covered with timber. Wanga-
nella Estate is much the same
George Simpson (second from right ) classing Wanganella Estate
ewes. Professor Johnston, U.S. wool-expert, is second from left.
sort of country, with a higher
proportion of sandy ridges.
Later in the week we drove
south to Wanganella Estate,
where Fraser (“Jum”) Falkiner
and an offsider were working
the yards of the striking red-
brick shearing-shed built by the
Millears. Fraser is manager of
Wanganella Estate, his brother
Travers is manager of Zara, the
60,000-acre property where the
Boonoke Poll Merinos run. They
are sons of Ralph Falkiner —
there are many Faikiners—and
cousins of Mac; all three,
cousins of George Falkiner, of
Haddon Rig. F. S. Falkiner had
five sons and five daughters. One
of the sflns, F. 8.5., left the
family firm and bought Haddon
Rig, near Warren, another
Peppin stud, but one founded on
sheep from Austin and Millear.
At Boonoke shearing started
and visitors began to arrive.
There always seemed to be visi-
tors, but there was no fuss on
either side. One party I remem-
ber particularly included Dr.
George Hart, Professor Emeritus
of Veterinary Medicine from
California University. Alexander
Johnston, who is the kind of
professor every journalist should
have at his elbow, nudged me
to indicate that I should try
to arrange an interview with
him some time.
Professor Johnston impressed
me tremendously. He never
wearied of asking questions, and
he never irritated anyone by ask-
ing them. Technical questions,
about sheep and wool. And he
always checked. The Faikiners
and Basil Clapham told him a
good deal, I imagine, but he was
also likely to ask the picker-up
or the woolpresser something
about his angle. What was more
interesting, busy men would stop
to tell him. Perhaps because they
were sensible questions. He was
at the classer’s elbow half the
time, and he, too, took it in good
part. They were shearing three-
year-old Boonoke ewes at the
time, and Johnston took a sample
of each line. There were 20
lines.
The shed has the name of the
stud in large green letters on the
galvanised-iron roof. It covers
225 squares, and most of the
yards are bricked. The raised
races took my eye. Putting
sheep on a platform of battens
allows one to see them more
plainly, and is less tiring all
round than bending over old-
type races. The device is more
important on studs, but since
anyone who owns sheep has to
class them to some extent, it’s
surprising more people don’t
use them.
We went out to see George
Simpson class the Wanganella
Estate ewes. The difference be-
tween the Boonoke and Wanga-
nella Estate sheep isn’t very
marked. The Boonoke is a
squarer sheep, the Wanganella
Estate sheep is rather longer in
the legs. Quite a crowd were in
the windy yards in a paddock.
Apart from visitors, George
Simpson, Basil Clapham, Mac
Falkiner, Billy McKee and a
crowd of helpers. Again, the
raised race. The classer moved
quickly, followed by the man
with the raddle, who marked the
sheep on different parts —hip,
head and so on —as the classer
tersely called his ruling.
“Double!” “Single!” “Special!”
“Cull! ” As the case may be.
“These men must know,”
Johnston said. “If they could
only tell us what they’ve got
here” —flexing his fingers. That
night, around the fire, he asked
Simpson many questions. But,
with a few exceptions, which
Johnston jotted down, the
answers boiled-down to the state-
ment that you know, or you
don’t know. Something impos-
sible to communicate. One brief
exchange I noted myself. John-
ston said that Rambouillets of
64’s turn to 70’s with old age.
Simpson said that if a sheep goes
fine with age it is no good.
The conferences round the
fire at Boonoke at night were
interesting. Usually someone
would drop in, or be staying the
night. The only disadvantage
was that, after a day in the open,
it was hard to stay awake.
Most of the ewes are joined
for spring-lambing; a srpaller
number for autumn-lambing.
Natural pasture is stored, as
baled hay or as silage. The
target is 10,000 tons, which is
what the Falkiners estimate they
need to feed their studs through
a normal drought. They le half
there, and hope to make it up in
the coming spring. Water,
Where there is no running water,
bores.
Up at North Boonoke, which
is the main .sales-depot, and
where there is a huge Moreton
Bay planted by James
Cochrane, I was shown the office
where I couid look through the
old records The hst of buyers
over the years has its own
interest, but so far as studs are
concerned, this information is
available in flock-registers. There
is no doubt concerning the influ-
ence of Boonoke and Wanganella
Estate sheep. And as the F. S.
Falkiner concern sells between
gpOO an( j jo qqo rams a year,
, he influe n C e is continuous,
But it seems a p ty that the
story of how all th s
is not better documented.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
CONSIDERABLY wider markets have
been opened to plastics-manufacturers
by the technological advances made
within the industry over the last few
years. A local organisation which has
had great success in using the new
materials and techniques is Melbourne
co. Moulded Products (Australasia),
Ltd., which is claimed to be the biggest
maker of plastic goods in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is undoubtedly one of the
most profitable among Australian manu-
facturers.
In the last decade the co.’s output has
increased more than tenfold and the range
extended to include flexible sheeting,
wires and. cables, upholstery material,
packaging material, hose, agricultural and
chemical piping, rainwear, laminated
sheets and tubes, lighting, hardware and
household articles, brushes, toys and
games. It also supplies raw materials to
other manufacturers.
Backing the manufacturing activities of
the company’s seven factories, all located
in Victoria, is an Australia-wide sales
organisation of 16 subsidiary concerns.
To meet the special requirements of
industry an industrial-sales division has
been created which is reported to be
doing well. Export trade, particularly
with New Zealand, is also being
developed satisfactorily.
Reflecting the year’s bigger turnover,
up 20 p.c. on the previous best result
(which increase, the co. says, while
attributable in part to import-controls,
was due mostly to its ability to develop
and hold markets for new but stable pro-
ducts), net profit of the group shot-up
£65,802 to £222,618:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 14 p.c. serves, serves.
£/£>£/ £/ £/ £L
1951.. 95,748 1600 10,548 51,985 31,615 239,474
Share premiums, etc., £31,113 .. 270,587
Sale fixed assets, £B6O .. .. .. 271,447
Unexplained reduction, £llOB.. .. 270,339
1952. .115,090 1600 12,656 69,251 31,583 301,922
Share premiums, £36,363 .. .. 338,285
Sale fixed assets, £544 .. .. .. 338,829
Note issue exes., £7147.. .. .. 331,682
1953. .154,662 1600 12,656 70,825 69,581 401,263
Profit sale fixed assets, £2148 .. 403,411
1954. .156,816 1600 12,656 71,469 71,091 474,502
Profit sale fixed assets, £2603 .. .. 477,1.05
Share-issue expenses, £9382 .. .. 467,723
Share-premiums, £84,395 .. .. 552,118
Pref. Ord.
6J p.c. 14 p.c.
1955. .222,618 17,248 78,445 126,925 679,043
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
Written after eliminating the interests of
minority shareholders and allowing a
“realistic” £179,545 (up £35,679) for
depreciation and £187,570 (up £85,814)
for taxation, provided! at the new rates,
the £222,618 was 36.7 p.c. on average
ord. capital employed (allowing for the
prefs.), as against 27.9 p.c. in the previous
year. The ord. div. was held at 14 p.c.,
the rate since 1947.
In recognition of the existing position
in which very few preference shares
among the 5-6 percenters listed on the
Stock Exchange fetch their full par-value,
the co. has reorganised its pref. capital by
lifting the div.-rate on the old 5 p.c. scrip
to 6| p.c. and converting the 20,000 6 p.c.
“A” participating prefs. into fixed 6j p.c.
shares. A compensating bonus-issue of
40 ord. ss. stock-units was made to the
“A” pref.-holders for every £lOO of their
stock so converted.
To finance the completion of a
“planned expansion” of buildings and
equipment the co. issued another 135,000
6? p.c. prefs. for cash, at par, and offered
ord.-shareholders one new ss. share at a
premium of 2s. 6d. for every two shares
held. By the end of the term on December
31 the ord. issue had brought in £175,615
of new capital and £84,395 in premiums.
The extent of the additions to working
assets, stocks and debtors is evident in
the figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref.' .. .. £273,125 £273,125 £408,125
Ord 509,646 515,836 693,451
Reserves .. .. 401,263 474,502 679,043
Outside interests.. 20,813 25,597 24,829
Mortgage .. .. 11,950 11,650 104,293
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes .. 251,687 251,687 251,687
Overdraft .. 294,912 312,642 397,491
Creditors .. 269,266 413,795 419,687
Tax provision .. 166,833 189,804 285,837
Final divs. .. 85,081 48,002 57,555
£2,534,576 £2,766,640 £3,671,998
Freeholds, etc. .. 286,407 320,894 642,269
Plant, etc. .. 687,738 739,240 814,836
Stocks .. .. 956,810 1,102,964 1,455,725
Debtors .. .. 567,504 597,819 749,531
Cash, shares, etc... 6,117 6,723 9,637
£2,534,576 £2,766,640 £3,571,998
The working-capital position has also
been strengthened by the new share-
capital. At balance-date current assets
exceeded liabilities by more than 2 to 1.
The f.-p. ss. ords. are at 12s. Id. on
’Change (14s. 3d. a year ago, and about
13s. 9d. a year before that), to return 5.8
p.c. on the 14 p.c. div. The co.’s option-
certificates (there are 1,006,750, entitling
their holders to take up a like number
of ords. at a premium of 2s. 6d. each on
June 30, 1958) make an interesting invest-
ment at 2s. 9d.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
WITH nearly another year’s operations
concluded since the 1955 accounts
were totted-up, it can now be recorded
that Peters, which by this must be just
about Australia’s largest milk-oh,
paid its usual p.c. interim in
March, and that the export of Australian
butter during the first nine months of
1955-56 (coinciding with the same portion
of the co3s financial year) was up about
22 p.c. on the figure for the preceding
corresponding period.
Exports of Australian cheese, eggs,
milk and cream were down 12£ p.c. But
the Peters organisation has been getting
its full share of the export trade in
powdered milk, and has been able to
command payable prices for its packaged
brands, whereas some competitors have
suffered losses.
During the current term, also, the
home market for ice-cream has been
better, with sales by all manufacturers up
nearly 10 p.c.
Sixteen years ago the Peters co. was
Australia’s chief ice-cream manufacturer,
and little more. Today the organisation
is one of a parent company and 20
subsidiaries in which the manufacture and
distribution of dairy-produce now
predominate. Chief products, apart from
fresh milk and ice-cream, are
butter, cheese, ‘ condensed-milk, milk-
powders and casein, and a consider-
able portion of these is sold overseas.
For several years the Australian market
has been an expanding one.
The subsidiaries (proprietary cos.)
are:
Peters Creameries (Taree), Peters
Creameries (Grafton), Peters Ice Cream
.(original operating co. and probably best
profit-earner in the group), Nizer Refrigera-
tion, Dry Ice, Peters Ice Cream (S.A.),
Foley Bros., Waratah Cheese Manufacturing
Co., N.S.W. Fresh Food and let:, N.S.W.
Fresh Food Bakery, N.S.W. Fresh Food
Provedores, N.S.W. Fresh Food Cold Stor-
age, Penguin Ice Cream, Peters (Property
Holdings), Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy,
Central Equipment and Dairy Engineering,
Haulage Services, P.C.M. Accounting
Services, Peters Creameries (S.A.), North
Coast Milk Products.
During 1954-55 milk-distribution in the
Sydney area was extended, and a milk-
distributing co. at Lismore was acquired.
The ice-cream organisation was also
extended in some principal country areas.
In South Australia ice-cream capacity has
been increased during 1956.
Between 1951 and 1954 over £2,351,000
was spent on capital assets, and £747,573
was written-off for depreciation. Last
term fixed assets (excluding transport)
were revalued and written-up by
£1,127,018. Freehold, plant, buildings,
etc., actually increased by £1,422,525 in
the books, after writing-off £257,207
(against £226,063) for depreciation.
It would appear that in 1954-55 some-
thing like £550,000 was spent on fixed
assets in various parts of Australia (they
now total £5,633,615). This, with a
£642,737 addition to stocks (£1,519,465),
was largely financed out of profit-
allocations and retentions, £416,337 added
to capital, an increase of £476,955 in the
overdraft, and £187,576 in creditors.
Debentures of £133,476 were paid-off:
Consolidated Balancb-siieet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,709,173 £1,700,173 £2,116,510
Reserves .. .. 1,389,167 1,415,960 2,559,787
Mortgage .. .. 135,941 133,876 400
Overdraft .. .. 1,926,114 1,723,524 2,200,479
Creditors, etc. .. 1,128,542 1,194,044 1,381,590
Inter-co. balance .. 70,611 93,694 69,611
Tax provision ~ 143,308 143,386 122,410
Final div. .. 76,508 85,009 96,996
£6,570,364 £6,489,666 £8,547,783
Freeholds, etc.* .. 1,538,607 1,654,813 2,572,248
Plant . . - . 2,100,366 2,349,930 2,883,413
Under constructionf 113,499 206,347 177,954
Stocks .. . • 1,365,545 876,728 1,519,465
Book debts .. 1,111,196 1,272,388 1,244,071
Shares other cos... 119,612 81,721 82,276
Cash, bonds, etc. 185,500 11,700 29,760
Intangibles • • 36,039 36,039 38,596
£6,570,364 £6,489,666 £8,547,783
* Includes leaseholds £23,573, 1953 ; £24,279,
1954 ; £23,415, 1955. f Buildings and plant.
The Peters organisation has a lot of
expansion to consolidate, though capital
has grown by only £659,543 since June
30, 1951. Some of this was issued to
acquire the shares in N.S.W. Fresh Food
and Ice co. The rural-construction pro-
gramme is nearing finality.
During the digestive stages, visible
earning-power of the organisation has
been moderate:
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
From subsidiaries, £567,135 .. 1,098,267
1951.. 94,651 9 p.c. = 93,338 1,313 1,099,580
Unexplained reduction, £5792 .. 1,093,788
1952.. 101,434 7i p.c. = 112,218 1,083,004
Excess book-value over cost shares
subsidiaries, £101,324 .. .. 1,184,328
Sundry reserve adjustment, £114,819 1,299,147
Tax refunds, £65,363 .. ..1,364,510
1953.. 160,671 8 p.e. = 136,014 24,65.7 1,389,167
Addition to capital reserve, £2025.. 1,391,192
Less unexplained deduction, £7BB .. 1,390,404
1954.. 170,071 84 p.c. = 144,515 25,556 1,415,960
Assets revalued, £1,127,018 .. 2,542,978
Less unexpl’d deduction, £1470.. 2,541,508
1955.. 183,115 8$ p.c. = 164,836 18,279 2,559,787
♦Subject to intangibles of £36,039 at 30/6/’64.
In the 1954-55 term, after providing
£299,419 for depreciation and taxation
(lumped together, now, and approxi-
mately the same as in the preceding year),
net profit was £183,115, up £13,044, and
equal to 9.4 p.c. on the increased average
capital, compared with 10, 9.4, 6.9 and
9.1 p.c. in the four preceding years. After
meeting the unchanged p.c. distribu-
tion there was £18,279 visibly left to
support the revaluation - augmented
reserves.
Total reserves are now equal to 245. 2d.
per £1 share, making net tangible backing
445. 2d. a share. But the sharemarket,
with an eye on disclosed earning-power
and a knowledge of the difficulties of
milk-distribution, pays only 245. 6d. for
the £1 shares, to obtain an immediate
return of 6.9 p.c. on an 8£ p.c. div. basis.
Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd.
TTHE Cyclone organisation has been
A established in Australia almost 60
years, but it has been in the last 10 years
that the most significant expansion of the
company’s activities has taken place.
In the course of a building programme
undertaken at the end of the war, several
modern factories have been erected and
the co. has plans for others at Launceston
(Tasmania), and at Townsville and South
Granville (near Sydney), which will
replace existing factories in those centres.
When these are completed the parent
company will have eight manufacturing-
plants turning out fencing and gates (the
original lines on which the business was
founded in 1898), screenwire, pre-
fabricated tubular-framework for farm-
and industrial-buildings, wrought-iron-
work, playground equipment, tennis-court
enclosures and a variety of farm- and
industrial-equipment, including milking-
bails, stock-feeders, shearing-sheds and
accessories, stock road-transports and
conveyor-belts.
Subsidiaries located in three States
make drop-forgings and hand-tools, and
do an extensive business in the sale and
hire of tubular steel-scaffolding for the
building-trade.
To overcome the shortages of raw
materials which limited expansion in the
early post-war years, and which are still
present, Cyclone has established overseas
sources of supply to supplement deliveries
of wire and tubing from Australian
manufacturers. Regular contact is also
made with organisations abroad to keep
the co. informed of the latest develop-
ments in manufacture.
To finance the expenditure on fixed
assets over the last five years, ord. share-
holders have put up just under £900,000
in equal amounts of premium and capital.
Another £300,000 of ord. capital is to be
raised by Cyclone’s current issue, which is
also at a stiff 100 p.c. premium. On
this occasion, however, the bonus share-
issue which was made simultaneously
with the premium issues in 1952 and
1955 has not been repeated. Financed
from share-premiums and the surplus
created by writing-up property-values,
bonus-scrip worth £450,000 has been
handed to shareholders since 1949.
After spectacular growth following
conversion to a public co. a decade ago,
earnings have lately tended to stabilise:
Parent Co.
r —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
5 p.c. 12i p.c.
1951. .116,813 7,500 48,000 61,313 491,553
Share-premiums, £149,205 .. .. 640,758
Assets revalued, £lOO,OOO .. .. 740,758
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. 620,758
Profit sale assets, £4447 .. .. 625,205
Share-issue expenses, £lOOO .. 624,205
1952. .139,621 7,500 80,625 51,496 675,701
Share-premiums, £795 .. .. 676,496
Profit sale assets, £55,724 .. .. 732,220
1953..261,447 7,500 112,500' 141,447 873,667
Loss sale assets, £1079 .. .. 872,588
Goodwill written-off, £5165 .. 867,423
1954. .286,192 7,500 112,500 166,192 *1,033,615
Share-premiums, £298,512 .. .. 1,332,127
Reserves capitalised, £150,000 .. 1,182,127
Loss sale assets, £374 .. .. 1,181,753
Share-issue expenses, £2OOO .. 1,179,753
1955. .284,998 8,750 151,875 124,373 1,304,126
Last term’s £284,998 net profit was
declared after writing-off depreciation
of £86,639 (up £11,808) and making pro-
vision of a round £177,000 for income-
tax (as against an adjusted £175,176 in
1954). On average ord. capital earnings
were 27.3 p.c., compared with 37.1 p.c. in
1954 and 33.9 p.c. in 1953. Sales were
again a record, but increased costs made
operations less profitable. After paying
preference and ordinary dividends of 5
p.c. and 15 p.c., respectively, £124,373 was
added to reserves, bringing them to
£1,304,126. Another 1 p.c. a year will be
paid to old pref.-shareholders to bring
them into line with the 6 p.c. prefs. issued
earlier this term, but the co. has indicated
that an increase in the ord. div. above
the present rate is subject to the need to
provide for a substantial proportion of
capital-expenditure out of earnings.
Reflecting completion of the Geebung
factory and progress made with the co.’s
other projects, investment in fixed assets
rose by a net £282,830. Stocks were up
£298,054 to £1,372,733, and debtors by
£240,410 to £769,795. Investments in
subsidiary cos., in at cost at £471,229,
were also £108,528 higher. Apart from an
additional £270,588 of bank credit, the
chief sources of new funds were share-
holders and what the business itself pro-
vided out of profits:
PinirKi' fin.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £150,000 £150,000 £150.000
Ord 750,000 760,000 1,198,512
Reserves .. .. 856,621 1,027,791 1,304,126
Mortgages, etc. .. 182,000 321,760 275,825
Overdraft . . 189,423 668,848 839,436
Creditors, etc. . . 255,433 399,543 389,854
Hue to subsids. .. 73,037 55,246 37,069
Tax provision .. 165,000 181,000 177,000
Final divs. .. 78,750 60,000 89,375
£2,700,264 £3,514,178 £4,461,197
Land, building .. 640,024 863,868 1,014,431
Plant, etc. .. 532,986 629,990 762,257
Shares subsids. .. 267,637 362,701 471,229
Stocks .. .. 673,603 1,074,679 1,372,733
Debtors .. .. 618,487 529,385 769,795
Due by subsids. .. 13,623 24,881 11,254
Gash, etc. .. 63,904 28,674 69,498
£2,700,264 £3,614,178 £4,461,197
When trading in the rights opened buyers
had to add Is. or so to their first bids
of ss. 6d. before sellers could be found.
On the basis of the 15 p.c. div., entry at
6s: 6d., plus brokerage, would give share-
holders an eventual yield of 5.6 p.c. from
the fully-paid 10s. shares. Applications
close on June 11.
Bruntons (Holdings), Ltd.
WITH the huge accumulated world
wheat surpluses, estimated to
equal total export possibilities for
over two years, the problems of local
flourmillers, who depend on overseas
markets for the disposal of the bulk of
their output, appear as difficult of solu-
tion as they have been at any time since
world supply of the grain caught up with
demand around 1954.
For although Australia grows the
cheapest wheat in the world, this advan-
tage is being largely offset by high
milling-costs at home and the need to put
prices on a competitive basis with those
of subsidised exporters abroad. The result
is that while exports of flour have been
maintained at levels not greatly below
the figures of earlier years, prices
obtained have on the whole proved
unremunerative.
These are the circumstances which
have brought about the drop in the profits
of Bruntons in recent years and the
passing of the dividend in respect of
1955-56. ■
The genesis of this milling co. dates
back to 1868, when Thomas Brunton and
a partner erected a flourmill in Mel-
bourne. This was later rebuilt in North
Melbourne, and, as the business grew,
activities were extended to Sydney, and
afterwards to Gunnedah (N.S.W.) and
Rupanyup (Vic.). In 1929 separate cos.
were formed to control operations in
each State.
When Bruntons (Holdings) took over
in 1951 their combined capitals
amounted to £199,651, in return for
which shareholders got ordinary scrip
worth £288,548 in the new co. A public
i§sue of 245,802 ss. shares followed in
1952, making capital £350,000.
On this figure dividends of 10 p.c.
were paid in 1953 and also, from reduced
earnings, in 1954. When profit was halved
in the following year the div. was lowered
to 5 p.c. and omitted altogether last
term:
Bruntons (Holdings) and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.f
£ . £ £ £
1953.. 65,735 10 p.c. = 35,000 ( 90971; 119 765
Prelim, exes, written-off, £2460 j ’
Excess tax provision, £5252 .. .. 118,017
1954.. 51,625 10 p.c. = 35,000 16,625 134,642
Unexplained addition, £4735 .. .. 139,377
1955.. 25,070 5 p.c. = 17,500 7,570 146,947
Assets revalued, £190,987 .. •• 337,934
Intangibles written-off, £89,690 .. 248,244
1956.. 9,401 Nil ' 9,401 257,64 a
f Subject to £89,690 excess cost over par-value pf
shares in subsidiaries, written out of the accounts in
1956.
Profit of £9401 for the year which ended
in February was arrived at after writing-
off depreciation of £17,261 (£14,679) and
providing £3059 (£12,817) for taxes. As a
percentage of paid capital the £9401 was
only 2.7 p.c., as against 7.1 p.c. in 1955,
14.7 p.c. in 1954 and 18.7 p.c. in 1953.
During the term freehold properties
in N.S.W. were written-up to the latest
V.-G. valuation, and to “a conservative


TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
tJ'f'AS
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BAREEEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
■with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Yon can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friends
WOULD DESMOND CROFTEN JOHN-
SON, formerly of Davies Street, Altona,
and Bellairs Avenue, Yarraville, but now
of parts unknown, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, plegse communicate with
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray?
RE FRANCIS MICHAEL BRANNELLY,
late of Wangoon, Farm Labourer, who
died on the 25th September, 1952.
WOULD anybody claiming to be, or know-
ing the whereabouts of, PATRICK BRAN-
NELLY, father of FRANCIS MICHAEL
BRANNELLY, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
RE FRANCIS MICHAEL .BRANNELLY,'
late of Wangoon, Farm Labourer, who
died on the 25th September, 1952. —-
WOULD anybody claiming to be or know-
ing the whereabouts of SYLVESTER
BRANNELLY, brother of FRANCIS
MICHAEL BRANNELLY, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
•m9e
m
'
5 ..,r '■
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of "Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
A.P.M. COOKS CHIPS TO MAKE PAPER— No. 2 of a series.
;■
■
:
«£fx~
mmsm
- i
WZ
mm
m
m
*f kk
m
Australia’s biggest pressure cooker?
This could well be Australia’s biggest
pressure cooker. It is part of the pulp-
making equipment used by A.P.M. —Aust-
ralian Paper Manufacturers Limited —at
its pulp mill at Maryvale, Gippsland,
Victoria. %
About 40 feet high and some Tl| feet
across, this giant pressure cooker, known
as a digester, holds 17,000 gallons of water,
chemicals and wood chips. It cooks them
under a pressure 10 to 15 times greater
than your domestic cooker.
The purpose of the digester is to turn wood
chips measuring roughly 1 x 1 x \ inches
into a mash of fibres, knots, lignin and
liquids.
After cooking, the mixture is washed and
screened to remove all but the fibres.
These become the main ingredient in mak-
ing wrapping-papers and paperboards.*
The lignin (the bonding material of wood
fibres) is burnt to help raise steam and
power for use in the mill. The liquids
contain valuable chemicals which are
recovered and used again.
This system of using by-products contrib-
utes to the efficiency and economy of
A.P.M.’s operations as Australia’s largest
manufacturer of wrapping papers and
paperboards.
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers .
Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in
Victoria, Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Queensland.
valuation” in Victoria. Part of
the resulting surpluses was used
to write - off £89,690 of
intangibles representing the
difference between the par-value
and cost of shares in the sub-
sidiaries :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital £350.000 £850.000 £350,000
Reserves .. 134.642 146,947 2d7,640
Overdraft .. 13,735 136,147 165,701
Cr etc' torS ’ .. 145,803 198,400 153,275
Ta v is ioT .. 35,793 14,581 2,895
Inter-c-o.
suspense.. 8,963 ~
Final divs. . 17,500 8,750
£706,436 £854,825 £929,516
Freeholds .. 112,919 116,028 332,791
Plant .. 168,191 220,101 102,772
Stock .. 94,182 134,813 123,701
Debtors .. 240,891 293,320 279,689
Cash etc. .. 563 Bi 3 663
Intangibles . 89,690 89,690
£706,436 £854,825 £929,516
* Accounts of subsidiaries made up to
November 30.
On the basis of the revalued
properties, net tangible asset
cover for each of the 1,400,000
ss. units of stock is Bs. Bd. The
latest price put on the scrip by
the sharemarket is around
3s. 3d.
Kuwait and Santos
(Transferred from Service
Department .)
(1) When was oil first discovered in
the Persian Gulf area ? (2) Is it .in
close proximity to the sea ? (3) Were
there any surface indications, similar
to the ‘‘oil globules” which have been
found in the ‘‘Santos” areas north of
Port Augusta in South Australia ?
(4) At what depth were the first signs
of oil discovered? Were the greater
flows discovered at reasonably shallow
levels mat great depth ? (5) The
flows from the Kuwait and Saudi
Arabian wells appear to be flowing
at a phenomenal rate. 1 atm interested
to know if the Western Australian
areas and Santos areas shew any
surface similarity to those of < the
above-mentioned countries so far as
they have gone up to the present.
I>. Owen, oil-geologist, has sup-
plied the following information: —
(1) Crude-petroleum seepages,
and an inspissated product
(asphalt), were known in pre-
historic times in the valleys of
the Euphrates and the Tigris.
Asphalt was commonly
employed for caulking (e.g.,
Noah’s Ark), as a bond for
building-materials and in orna-
ments by Elamites, Chaldeans,
Akkadians, Sumerians and
Assyrians; Hit is recorded as
one of the localities where
asphalt was mined extensively—
in fact, the name means “bitumen
spring.” In Iran, oil-springs have
been known from the earliest
times; the Persians were not
onjy fire-worshippers their
temples being built over natural-
gas emanations —but, at the
siege of Athens (480 b.c.), as
recorded by Herodotus, they
used incendiary arrows with
“war-heads” of pitch-soaked
tow. The Romans imported
petroleum (both crude and dis-
tilled) from Northern Persia for
religious and medicinal pur-
poses. Oil was first obtained in
commercial quantities in Persia,
from wells sunk specifically for
that purpose, at the Masjid-i-
Sulaiman oilfield discovered in
1908.
(2) The discovery-field is
about 420 miles from the
northern shore-line of the
Persian Gulf, but oil has since
been discovered both further
inland and on the littoral of the
Gulf.
(3) Springs of a water-clear oil
were known to the ancients at a
locality now named “White Oil
Springs,” which is 20 miles
south-east of the well from
which commercial production
(of petroleum with different
physical characteristics) was first
obtained. The White Springs
petroleum is, obviously, a long-
distance migrated oil, which is
believed to have been trans-
ported from its source in the
gaseous state. The “oil-
globules” observed in the Wilka-
tana district—3o miles north of
Port Augusta —have also under-
gone long-distance migration
under rather different conditions,
but they contain more wax and
are darker in color than the
White Springs oil.
(4) The first commercial yield
obtained at Masjid-i-Sulaiman
was from a depth of just over
1000 ft.; the main producing oil-
zone, in the Asmari Limestone
there, lies at a depth of from
1100 ft. to 1400 ft.
(5) The rate of flow (be it in
gas, oil and/or water) in wells,
anywhere, is largely dependent
on: (a) the closed-in pressure of
the reservoir, and ( b ) the order
of permeability of the reservoir
beds. The permanence of the
flow is largely a function of the
thickness, extent and porosity of
the producing horizons. It is
independent of any real or
imagined similarity at the sur-
face to other localities.
Western Titanium, N.L.,
reports that the principal items
of mining equipment have
arrived on the site, and that
orders have been placed for the
main units of the treatment-plant.
If everything goes according to
schedulp, the co. expects to be
operating at half plant-capacity
toward the end of November
next, and at increased capacity
by March, 1957. The material to
be treated is the ancient sand-
dunes at Capel, about three miles
inland from the coast and 18
miles from the Port of Bunbury
(W.A.). Virtually chrome-free
ilmenite will provide the bulk
of the co.’s revenue, and zircon,
rutile and monazite by-products
are expected to help swell the
pool. An adjoining 200 acres,
estimated to contain 750,000
tons of heavy-mine/als, has been
recently added to the leases, and
an option has been taken over
a further 2000 acres, now being
scout-bored. The investor needs
to remember that world supplies
of ilmenite are more abundant,
and the stuff is cheaper, than
rutile.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Sydney has been treated to a certain
amount of pageantry this week—celebra-
tion of the centenary of responsible
government and the traditional Empire
Day activities.
At the opening of Parliament the
Governor, Sir John Northcott, read a
message from the Queen, and afterwards
took the salute outside Parliament House
at a parade of 200 servicemen and police,
who had previously marched through the
city. Meanwhile a 19-guri salute had
boomed across from Farm Cove. In
the evening of the. same day a State
reception was held at the Town Hall,
attended by 1000 leading citizens.
* ☆ *
Of course the big social event was the
Lord Mayor’s Ball, held in honor of the
centenary of responsible government, and
to which 1600 guests were invited for
Thursday, May 24, at 9 p.m., which was
also Empire Night.
Earlier the moonlit sky had been
sparkling with rockets, and in the cold,
clear night the fairylights garlanding the
trees in Hyde Park put the guests in the
right festive mood for a ball.
The vestibule of the Town Hall was
decorated with a tiered centrepiece of
yellow flowers, and each alcove held an
illuminated bouquet. The stage in the
main hall became a formal old-world
garden, with an illuminated tree, lawns
and a fountain playing. Immediately in
front a low railing of white chrysanthe-
mums and green foliage marked-off the
official enclosure. The pillars in the hall
were decorated with circular baskets of
chrysanthemums, and British and Aus-
tralian flags flanked the central display.
Many of those who had arrived early
took up their positions in the galleries to
watch the arrival of the official party at
about 9.45. The Governor’s aide came
first, then Senator W. H. Spooner and
Mrs. Spooner (representing the Prime
Minister), then Premier J. J. Cahill and
Mrs. Cahill, next the Lord Mayor (Aider-
man P. D. Hills) and Mrs. Hills, and
finally the Governor, Sir John Northcott.
Immediately after the National Anthem'
a pageant was enacted showing the
opening of the first Parliament by
Sir William Denison, in which the
crinolines and bonnets of the women
were no less interesting than the colored
tail-coats and waistcoats of the men.
About 40 actors took part in the pageant,
which was arranged by Miss Mina
Shelley.
Then came dancing, to Jim Gussey’s
band, which was stationed under the
south gallery (the focal-point of the
pageant had been under the north
gallery). There was plenty of room for
waltzing, as many of the guests preferred
to sit on the sidelines and admire the
dresses, and others crowded through the
corridors, where drinks and light refresh-
ments were served.
Dressing was at a high standard: white
ties, tail-coats, decorations, full-length
dresses and long white gloves abounded.
There were a good many dinner-suits; the
20 or so dark lounge-suits worn were
dressed-up with bow-ties.
The Lady Mayoress wore a slim gown
of white chiffon and French-lace. Mrs.
Cahill chose rose-pink satin, and Mrs.
Spooner’s dress, also of satin, was in deep
emerald-green. Mrs. Lionel McFadyen
wore a lovely dress of yellow chiffon
embroidered with crystal. Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan looked graceful in olive-
green chiffon, and Mrs. Tom Bateman
wore a striking dress of electric-pink
brocade.
After the first sitting of supper (served
downstairs buffet-style, and consisting of
oysters, chicken, lobster, curried-prawns,
salads, cakes, and champagne and other
drinks) it was nearly time for the floor-
show, put on by the members of the cast
of “Can-Can”; so once more people
flocked to the galleries for a good view.
They saw the amusing duel-scene from
the show and the exciting but humorous
apache-dance, and heard songs from the
two principals. After this came the
second sitting for supper, then more danc-
ing till 2 a.m.
Everyone seemed to enjoy the ball,
though not all stayed till the end. There
were representatives of all the Consulates,
Parliamentarians, leaders in various
phases of Sydney life (noted Mr. and Mrs.
Frank McDowell and Mr. and Mrs. K. F.
Coles, representing the retailing world ;
also R.T.A. secretary John Griffin),
mayors of Sydney municipalities (Mayor
of Rockdale Ron Gosling was present
with Mrs. Gosling), Sir Frank and Lady
Berryman, Lt.-General Denzil Macarthur-
Onslow and Mrs. Macarthur-Onslow,
Mr. David Condon (of the U.K.
Information Service) with Mrs. Condon
and daughter Ann, and Mr. E. C. Shaw,
who escorted Miss Dorothy Dean, and
who, as N.S.W.’s Usher of the Black Rod,
cast a very knowledgeable eye on the
formalities of the pageant.
Coralie Neville, a gifted and charming
young actress, is to play the part of
Brigid in the Genesians’ new production,
“Shadow and Substance,” which begins its
season on June 1. This sensitive and
appealing play about Ireland is by Paul
Vincent Carroll. Photo by John Hearder.
The committee of the “Shore” Old
Boys’ dance at the Trocadero on Friday
gained a really impressive decorative
effect with the crested menus at every
place, the cut-out straw-boaters on every
tablecloth and around the bandstand, the
canopy of blue-and-white streamers, the
red curtains appliqued with the school-
crest in the vestibule leading to the blue
curtains similarly appliqued, and the
candle-lit official table, where the place-
cards of G.P.S. representatives were tied
with their own colors. Over 1300 guests
danced almost non-stop to two bands.
They were received by the president of
the 0.8. U., Mr. Norman Falk, with Mrs.
Falk. Guests-of-honor were Acting-
Headmaster C. S. Tiley and Mrs. Tiley.
Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Ritchie represented
the combined G.P.S. Old Boys’ Union.
Younger “old boys” and their partners
were well represented. Among them was
David Matthews, whose engagement to
ex-Wenona girl Nadine Grout was
announced.
■ ☆ ☆ ■ ☆
The White Cross dinner-dance for St.
John Ambulance at Prince’s had a
distinctive atmosphere, with its guard-of-
honor of V.A.S in uniform and its
emblems of the White Cross recalling the
days of the Crusades. Lady Plowman, in
silver brocade, received the 290 guests
with president N.S.W. Chief Justice K. W.
Street. Lady Berryman, the new pro-
vincial commandant of the V.A.s, was
present with Sir Frank Berryman ; also
Minister for Sweden Dr. M. Kastengren
and Madame Kastengren, Dr. Robert
Steel (Commissioner of the brigade) and
Mrs. Steel, Mr. and Mrs. C. R. McKerihan
with their daughters Del and Mrs. Bewick
Hack, Dr. S. Nelson and his wife Dr. W.
Nelson, Dr. and Mrs. Neville Hoddle
and Mrs. A. H. Chartres.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women do not seem to have been very
responsible for responsible government
in the past 100 years. We have had the
vote in N.S.W. since 1902, and have been
eligible for election since 1918. Those
who have been elected to Parliament are
Millicent Preston Stanley (1925), Mary
Quirk (1939) and Lilian Fowler (1944);
and now Gertrude Melville is in the
Legislative Council. Not many, is it?
* * *
When her Excellency Lady Slim, who
is patron of the Women’s Auxiliary for
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes, paid a visit to
Normanhurst 70 children of the homes
formed a guard-of-honor. Lady Slim
inspected the homes and "planted a tree
as a memento of the visit.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lunching at Prince’s last Wednesday
were Mrs. L. Janes and daughter
Patricia. Conversation centred on final
plans for Patricia’s enviable tour abroad ;
she was leaving in the Otranto today
(May 30), and will travel through
Belgium, France, Germany, Austria and
Switzerland. A pharmacist, Patricia plans
to attend the Pharmaceutical Conference
in Dublin in September.
MELBOURNE
Al the civic reception which Lord
Mayor Sir Frank Selleck, with Lady
Selleck, gave for the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte, official guests included Victoria’s
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring, Opposition-leader John
Cain and Mrs. Cain, Country-party
leader Sir Herbert Hyland and Lady
Hyland, and retiring president of the
Chamber of Manufactures F. S. Vine
and Mrs. Vine.
I Welcoming her guests, Lady Selleck
wore a soft earth-brown paper-shantung
frock, the wide skirt of which had finely-
tucked panels, and small hat in match-
ing velvet. Mrs. Bolte Wore a mink stole
with her draped black fine-wool frock
and small hat of fern-green velvet. Mrs.
Cain’s .choice was a tweed suit of tan
flecked with black, topped by a black
velvet cap trimmed with gold sequins.
Other guests were Mrs. A. G. Warner,
Mrs. W. J. F. McDonald (wife of the
Speaker) and her daughter Jacquelyn,
Deputy Premier Rylah and Mrs. Rylah,
Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mr. and
Mrs. W- K. Burnside, Mrs. Lytton
Stephens and her sister Mrs. Karl Kumm,
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gove, Sir Samuel
and Lady Burston, Mr. and Mrs. W. S.
Cox, Mr. and Mrs. John Reilly, Mrs.
Keith Morrison and her son Michael,
Cr. Douglas Cox and his wife, Cr. and
Mrs. B. Evans, Cr. H. Lyall and Mrs.
Lyall, Cr. and Mrs. J. Ferguson, and
Cr. and Mrs. T. Luxton.
Senator Ivy Wedgwood, smart in a
black suit and soft mist-blue velour
cloche-hat, was among guests at a fare-
well luncheon-party given for Mrs. Henry
Bolte, the Premier’s wife, at Chevron.
Mrs. Bolte, who is accompanying her
husband on his trip overseas, 'added a
spray of white gardenias to her black
suit, which was worn with a small gold-
velvet hat.
Mrs. A. Rylah, wife of the Deputy
Premier, wore a brown tailored frock and
matching hat. Mrs. John Buckland, who
is private-secretary to Lady Brooks, was
there ; so was Mrs. A. T. Smithers, wife
of the Secretary to the Treasury; she
wore a large white-melusine hat with her
smart frock. Other guests were Mrs.
Jean Davies, Lois Lathlean, Tora Beck-.
ingsale, Freda Irving, Meredith Dawson
and Elva Breen.
On completion, of her education at the
C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School, Marion,
only daughter of Sir Harold and Lady
Gengoult Smith, of South Yarra, went
on to the University, where she is now
in second-year Arts. Her coming-out
party, given by her grandparents, Sir
Norman and Lady Brookes, during the
Queen’s visit, was shared by Gillian,
daughter of Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins. Marion, who was a member of
the committee which organised the recent
successful Camp Capers Ball to help
boys’ clubs, spends most of her weekends
on horseback at her parents’ Berwick
property.
Celebrating Empire Day, the junior
members of the Royal Empire Society
held their annual Snow Ball dance at No.
9 Darling-street. A huge snowman in
the foyer greeted guests, and gay travel-
posters of snow-resorts hung on the walls.
The members of the orchestra wore
Alpine-sweaters, while the leader looked
snug in a windcheater-jacket.
Vice-president Barbara Bruce wore an
attractive gown of rust glazed-chintz
patterned in a black-and-white design;
Felicity Harber’s short sheath-frock was
of white satin splashed all over with large
pink roses; Andrea Moule’s short
bouffant frock of white tulle had a harem-
hemline, a sage-green taffeta sash ending
at the back to form a wide panel. Helen
Hambley’s white silk-organza frock had
the low waistline defined at one side with
a large brilliant buckle; Margaret
Campbell wore a formal gown of white
satin brocade; and Rosemary Aikman
(Geelong) chose a Ming-blue silk-organza
frock, short and full, and with the strap-
less bodice moulded into soft folds.
# * #
Noted at the opening of the new ballet-
programme at Her Majesty’s: Mrs. F. H.
Wright’s short black velvet frock and
white Arctic-fox stole, and the formal
sheath-gown and white ermine stole worn
by her daughter-indaw, Mrs. Heathcote
Wright; the white-and-blue floral frock
which Mrs. Eric Rogers wore under a
turquoise-blue satin theatre-coat; April
Griffin’s dusty-pink nylon frock em-
broidered with gold sequins and pink
beads; Mavis Hotmer’s grey ripple-
taffeta and the diamond-and-emerald clips
she wore in the collar of her deep-blue
wool-faille theatre-coat; Mrs. Terry
Vaughan’s theatre-coat of scarlet faille,
the wide collar trimmed with black
tassels.
# V V
When Barbara Florence Henty-Wilson
was married at Holy Trinity, Kew, one
of the guests was Mrs. Michael Elliott,
aged 93, oldest member of the original
Henty family of Portland, from which
the bride is descended. Barbara, who is
the youngest daughter of Mrs. J. A.
Henty-Wilson, of Kew, and of the late
Mr. Henty-Wilson, wore a white French-
satin frock appliqued with a floral
design; a circlet of roses and forget-me-
nots held her tulle veil, and she carried
a bouquet of gardenias and stephanotis.
The bridegroom, Mostyn Richard, is the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. G. D.
Thompson, of East Kew.
v v v
Huge animal faces were on the walls,
and there were posters of wild beasts and
figures of strongmen and bareback riders
at the dinner-dance at Ciro’s to help the
Sutherland Homes for Children auxiliary.
Two clowns were suspended from a rope
across the ceiling, and to further the
atmosphere of “A Night at the Circus”
there was a performing-dog, a strolling-
singer and fortune-teller. Those who
attended included Mr. and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside (she wearing a, short frock of
cinnamon-brown Chantilly-lace), the Roy
McFarlanes, Mr. and Mrs. Royden
Honeyman, Mrs. Frank Norris, Mrs. P.
Dummett, Cr. Bernard Evans and his
wife, Mr. and Mrs. J. McGauran, Mrs.
Jim Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Dick Linton
(her black lace frock worn with a gold-
satin coat), Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham (whose
brilliant-red satin frock had a harem-
hemline), and Mrs. June Myers (who
wore a white Arctic-fox stole with her
black frock).
* ☆ ☆
At very short notice Sir John Allison,
'vice-president of the Royal Empire
Society, took over from president Sir
John Newman Morris (who was unwell)
and delivered an excellent speech at the
society’s Town Hall luncheon. Guests
included Major-General and Mrs. Kings-
ley Norris, Sir Owen and Lady Dixon,
Sir John and Lady Latham, Mrs. Claude
Couchman, Mr. Basil Murphy and his
wife, Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy, and
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson.
# # #
Mrs. Monckton Synnot, of South
Yarra, has announced the engagement of
her youngest daughter Christina (Kitty*
Mary Monckton to Peter Howson,
Federal member for Fawkner, who is the
only son of Mrs. George Howson, of
London, and the late Major George How-
son, M.C. The wedding will take place
probably in July or early August. A
party which Peter had arranged for his
fiancee’s brother, Commander Tony
Synnot (who is on leave from Darwin),
became one with a dual purpose: it also
celebrated the engagement.


Missing Friends
WOULD ALEXANDER JAMES TAYLOR,
formerly of Upper Ferntree Gully, but
now of parts unknown, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with JONES & KENNEDY, of 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray?
KER (maybe known as KERR), William,
ex Ist A.1.F., twin brother of MAR-
GARET KER (now deceased) and MRS.
ELIZABETH MARR, of Edinburgh, Scot-
land, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with DARBYSHIRE,
GILLETT & HUELIN, 42 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth ?
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
' THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
0 First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:'
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAAER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— Divorce. ■
No. 165 of 1955.
TO JOHN ERIC WOODS formerly of No.
11 Henley Road Flemington in the State
of New South Wales whose present
address is unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition
of PATRICIA MARY WOODS of No. 58
Salvator Road West Hobart in Tasmania
Married Woman praying for dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the
said charges proved and pronounce judg-
ment therein your absence notwithstand-
ing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart in the
State of Tasmania within thirty days
after the date of the publication of this
notice. DATED the Bth day of May,
1956.—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
to Alfred edmund Leslie way
formerly of Cockatoo Dock in the State
of New South Wales now of parts un-
known Fitter and Turner. —TAKE
NOTICE that GRACE WAY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3886 of 1955
on the grounds of desertion for three
years without just cause or excuse You
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 3rd day of August 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. A. FINN, ROACHE &
CO., Solicitors, 66 King Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NOTHING EQUALS
I MMtn MUM BMHKTI
warm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
MR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
■
m
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Wo. 3 Super
De luxe
Large Capacity Over
8,000 ca. ft.
■A' Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TtJBES MAKF, TfflS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARMRAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are bnilt into the nrebox.
The air in the room passes through these tabes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Chaliis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call far
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Harold Herbert
Mr. R. G. Menzies’s speech
at the opening of the exhibition
of the late Harold Herbert’s
watercolors at the Sedon Gal-
leries in Melbourne was a model
for art-show openers.
He didn’t begin by saying that
he didn’t know why such an un-
important person should have
been invited to open such an
important exhibition, especially
as he didn’t know anything about
art, and then proceed to make
judgments about it. He launched
straight away into a vivid account
of the technical wizardry of his
dear friend Harry, how he was
ambidextrous and could wipe-
in a wash as surely and swiftly
with his left hand as he could
with his right, and how, some-
times, if a raincloud threatened
to alter the light on a land-
scape he would play bass with
the one hand while the other
was tapping out the topnotes.
Mr. Menzies also gave a living
description of how Harold was
painting a jetty and, for a second,
got stuck over the muck and
barnacles on the piles. He
remained fixed in contemplation
for a minute, and then with six
swift brushstrokes captured the
effect to perfection. “But it’s no
good, of course, Harold - it’s
representational,” said Mr.
Menzies.
As regards Harold Herbert, the
man, Mr. Menzies told some
engaging stories to illustrate his
charm, his friendliness, his un-
envious disposition and his lovely
sense of humor. One story he
didn’t tell concerned his friends
of the Savage Club, who
followed the hearse to the grave-
side, and who returned to the
club in a sad mood over the loss
of their friend, to be confronted
with a notice: “From 12.30 p.m.
to 2 p.m. all drinks are on the
late Harold Herbert.”
Although agreeing with the
truth and grace of Mr. Menzies’s
picture of the artist, one doesn’t
always have to take his valu-
ation of the paintings. That
Harold Herbert had this facility
is undoubted, but nobody
deplored it more than did the
owner. He could sum-up a land-
scape, a seascape or snowscape
in a second and put the answer
down in five-minutes —in his
studio in Russell-street, if
need be.
Often, however, the answer
seemed to be similar in each,
so that you could recognise a
Herbert a mile off. It was a
pleasant formula, however. His
keen observation struggled with
his formula for most of Herbert’s
lifetime, and the present exhibi-
tion is a fine' record of the
struggle.
* ♦♦♦ *
Royal Art Society
Like the recent interim-
exhibition of the Society of
Artists, the Royal Art Society’s
exhibition at Anthony Horderns’,
Sydney, consists mostly of
amiable small paintings with
little to arouse excitement. But
it is pleasant so far as it goes,
and half-a-dozen paintings stand
out. For instance, there are
Leonard Long’s two landscapes,
particularly “The Haven,” which
has something of the autumnal
solidity of a Walter Withers;
Garrett Kingsley’s two nudes,
both with more of the proper
weight of bone and flesh than
many of his previous attempts,
less inclined to overdecoration,
and “The Model,” especially,
all the better for its play of light
on the body and for not looking
too finished; Mary Edwell-
Burke’s charming sketch of a
native girl, fighting a losing
battle against its red frame
|Lilie Lowe’s excellent watercolor
of grey-green stormy sea in
“Southerly Wind,” obviously
under the influence of G. K.
Townshend; and Townshend
himself showing his sure touch
in “White House.”
♦S
Graeme Inson
Graeme Inson's paintings at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries are
in the familiar Meldrumite
formula: on the whole, in rather
a flat application. His best
moments and they are both
effective and attractive are
when, as in the big, rough “After
Rain, Windsor” landscape, he
is fighting his hardest through
the formula to say something
personal.
“Nocturne, Hobart,” coal-
black though it is, is another
occasion where the subject itself
has moved him; as also are
“Cape Schanck, Victoria,” much
helped by its massive frame, but
still a genuine piece of feeling;
and, with its smooth pastel tones
lit by the pink of the clouds,
“Karuah River, Towards
Evening.”
Tony Rafty
Tony Rafty has an exhibition
of caricatures in color (at David
Jones’ in Market-street, Sydney)
of such people as R. G. Menzies,
H. V. Evatt, William Dobell, Sir
Ernest Fisk,‘Eric Baume, Judith
Anderson, Katharine Hepburn,
Robert Helpmann and other
figures—or faces.
They are a lively lot of phizes,
and Rafty shows a ready gift for
doing facile and amusing things
with the physical characteristics
of his subjects; one can purvey
his caricatures with admiration
for a long time before suddenly
remembering that great cari-
cature, like great art, goes
beyond physical resemblances.
Stage and Music
Martinon in Brisbane
Brisbane went musically very
French last week with a visit
from the Pascal Quartet followed
hard by one from Jean
Martinon, who led the Queens-
land Orchestra in a programme .
that was light, elegant and very,
very brief.
French music rarely gets into
Brisbane programmes, and when
it does it is seldom heard to such
advantage as was Ravel’s
“Mother Goose” Suite under
Martinpn. These, musical re-crea-
tions of Perrault fairy-stories
need a fine, shaping imagination
if they are to breathe the sights
and sounds of the old French
tales, and here they were brought
to life by a baton that seemed
touched with the necessary gift
of magic. Martinon nearly
floated off the platform in his
efforts to dray* from the printed
notes the ev ocative sounds Ravel
intended.
Falla’s brassy “Love, the
Magician” Suite immediately
shattered this fragile mood.
Brash and colorful, this suite is
at the same time a disjointed
collection of bits and pieces,
very effective in helping to end
the concert on a loud note.
The symphony was the
“Military” of Haydn, very well-
drilled and unsentimental, and
taken at a spanking pace which
suited the jauntiness of three
movements, at least. If anything,
the string-tone was dry, and here
and in the Mendelssohn overture
to “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” the playing was of an
X-ray quality, the whole struc-
ture of the music being laid bare
as though the magic wand had
become a surgeon’s scalpel. This
clarity was well suited to the
Mendelssohn, in which there
was hardly a fuzzy note, though
there were some passages of
supreme tenderness that could
have had a little more romantic
warmth.
D. J. M.
“The Madwoman of
Chaillot”
Ralph Wilson’s production of
“The Madwoman of Chaillot”
for Canberra Rep. matched the
brilliance of the play itself.
Giraudoux’s genius was a genius
of style, and his dialogue, even
in translation, is plainly the
reflection of an intellectual
delight in language still seen as
a vehicle of meaning. He had
the “wit” of the 18th century.
He had ideas, too, but they
do not benefit from the
inventiveness he showed in
characterisation or the imagina-
tiveness of his situations. He
had not Shaw’s gift for re-
thinking the official or the
revolutionary opinions of his
age, so that in “The Mad-
woman,” as in “The Trojan
War,” the ideas seem meagre
and naive, monotonously
repeated in the same terms.
Yet to hear and see his plays
is pure delight, and enough to
show what we miss in other
dramatists. The Canberra per-
formance lacked only, on its
first night at least, that entire
confidence which professional
actors tell us professional pro-
ductions always have. To select
individuals from the big cast
would be pointless, but Bob
Warren’s superb set for Act I
must be mentioned.
F. M. T.
“Teahouse of the August
Moon”
J.C.W.’s latest offering in
Brisbane is one of the Firm’s
happiest theatre-pieces. Bril-
liantly staged, it tells of the futile
attempts to impose American-
brand democracy on a village in
Okinawa, an island which, by
dint of hard experience of past
invasions, has learnt to digest
all such impositions without
apparent alteration or ill-effect.
No serious purpose or moral
embarrasses the bamboo-and-
paper structure of the comedy,
which was kept on a spirited
level by the nervous and
physical energy of Harry Chang,
as Sakini. Present commentator
found the three actors portraying
the American officers guilty of
un-American activities, their
walk at times being stiff-to-
English, and their speech often
a mere applique of an occasional
inflexion.
At a time when amateur
dramatic societies beg, borrow
and steal to avoid obvious
“howlers,” it is difficult to
pardon J.C.W.’s producer the
Australian haversack and Army
blanket!
V.V.


\ V'» /
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY srd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
GUARD
Cavity
sUSttlv Cl/
PROTECTA .
Stml-Sdj RtgiiiOwux}
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales* Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH •
W. C. Penfold Ss Co, Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Dros. Ply. Ltd.
• Vardon Price Ltd;
• Docket Book Co. (Auat.)
MAN ON THE LAND!
Appreciating that you are one of the busiest men
in the community whose reading-matter must be worth-
while, “The Bulletin” caters for you in a special way.
It doesn’t only keep you in touch with important
national and international events in a condensed form,
with pithy commentaries, but it also offers you, each
week, in its “Man on the Land” pages, a wide range
of agricultural interests. Articles and paragraphs come
from farmers, graziers, planters and scientists in every
State of the Commonwealth, New Zealand and New
Guinea —in fact, from practical men wherever “The
Bulletin” is read-
May we post you a copy every week? Send in
the form below and we will send you an account later.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to-
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £1 /1 6/
6 months .18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £8 Foreign .... £B/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Brisbane-trained horses have
found visiting gallopers too
strong in most recent seasons in
both the £lO,OOO Stradbroke
Handicap (seven furlongs) and
the £12,000 Brisbane Cup (two
miles), but The Wash, Bris-
bane’s best stayer in years, won
the Cup last winter.
Plato won the Stradbroke last
year at 14 to 1 from Grand
Topic and Prince Charm; other
Sydney-trained winners of the
sprint in late years have included
Karendi, Suncup, Aqua Regis
and Abbeville. The Wash, Cup
favorite at time of Writing—
the only Brisbane-owned horse
figuring in the betting is
expected to do well despite his
big weight (9.1). Last winter he
carried 7.12. Visiting horses
have won the Cup six times in
the last seven years: Lancaster,
Hydrogen, Putoko, Prince of
Fairies, Silver Buzz and Sanctus.
For the Stradbroke (Satur-
day): King’s Fair, 1; Aboukir,
2; Knave, 3.
For the Brisbane Cup (Mon-
day): Caranna, 1; The Wash,
2; Cambridge, 3.
The Orb and Knave won races
last Saturday, but it made no
difference to their places in the
betting-market on the Strad-
broke, in which New Zealander
King’s Fair is at the top of the
list, with Aboukir and Bris-
banite Regal Dignity next in
demand. Knave, ridden by
Sellwood, was all-out to land
the Rosehill Civic Handicap;
as it was only his second run
after a spell he should be cherry-
ripe for the Stradbroke. How-
ever, he will not have Sellwood
this time, as that jockey will
pilot topweight King’s Fair. The
Orb’s win was at Ipswich, but
he had little to beat.
• • • '•]
There are not many smarter
gallopers at Rosebery than
Grand Cavalier, who has now
won at his last two starts —at
Hawkesbury arid (on Saturday)
at Rosehill. The gelding is a
hard puller, especially on the
track, where he is usually ridden
by Roy James, wfeo has also
piloted him in races. J. Thomp-
son has had the mount for the
latest successes, and it wds just
as well such a capable horseman
was in the saddle, for he
had a tough ride until the
closing stages. Thompson has
now ridden 60 winners, and has
the Sydney jockeys’ premiership
for the 1955-56 season as good
as on the shelf.
Thompson picked a loser
earlier, when he elected to ride
Dipso in the Two-year-old
Handicap, instead of sticking to
Periwig, from Frank Dalton’s
stable, to which stable he has
long been attached. Sellwood
had the Periwig mount and won
the race, with Dipso a modest
fifth. Thompson had ridden
Periwig in four of his five starts.
Raced and bred by AJ.C. chair-
man A. G. Potter, the colt is
by High Chancellor (imp.) from
Jean by Ruthless (imp.).
• * * * *
The experts shuddered when
A. Mulley rushed three-year-old
Baystone to the lead in Rose-
hill Auburn Stakes before the
five-furlongs had been reached;
Baystone had been near the tail
at that stage. It was a 10-
furlongs event, and not many
horses have won a Graduation
Stakes with top weight, especially
three-year-olds. Baystone, how-
ever, went away to an easy win.
He is now out of the restricted'
ranks, but on this showing he
will soon win in open company.
Chateau King, a smart track-
galloper at Rosebery, should not
be long winning his first race.
His third to Baystone was
encouraging. He ran about a
little, and finished in the centre
of the track.
Grand Charles, a handy
middle-distance galloper, and
winner on Saturday of the Lord
Mayor’s Cup at Rosehill, is to
have a crack at the Brisbane
Cup. His Rosehill win was
encouraging; he was tailed-off
in the early stages and was still
one of the rear-guard at the
home-turn. W. Cook then
brought him with a well-timed
run for an easy success in
record time for the race. Grand
Charles carried 8.4 and has 7.12
in the Brisbane Cup. If he
misses in that two-miler he could
still have prospects in the
Moreton Handicap.
As it so often is, the steeple
was the most exciting race at
Caulfield on Saturday, and any
one of four could have won
over the last furlong. Pedro’s
Pride just beat Lime Beau, with
Moltema a stride in front of
Teedum, who was going best
of the four at the end, despite
his 12.1 and the very heavy track
(the going resulted in almost
continuous turn-ups in the flat-
races).
Des McCormick scratched
Bar Sinister to run Tudor Chief
in the Port Phillip Hurdle, but
the stable jockey, Brian Smith,
a crackerjack judge as well as
rider, chose to ride the hot
favorite, Arch. He could never
get near Tudor Chief, or even
the minor placegetters, King
Rheo and Red Astral. It’s long-
ish odds, though, that the winner
of the G.N. Hurdle was not
among these.
Tricky Lad, backed for the
lot by the stable at his last two
starts, couldn’t handle the going
in the first Ovens Handicap—
Williamson, despite his balance,
looked as though he might fall
off once or twice in the straight
—and neither could recent or
coming winners like Droll
Prince, Camber and Big Strike.
Williamson cantered-in on
Arab’s Choice in the second
division, easily beating Fiddler’s
Green (running on, too) and
Misto'mer; the winner is owned
by A. H. Griffiths, who only
races good ones.
Ottoman (imp.) colt Tudor
Hill, comfortable winner of
Caulfield’s First Ovens
Handicap, is owned in
England by S. G. Morgan, who
bought him at lOOOgns. as a
yearling while on a business
visit to Melbourne last year,
handing the colt over to N. A.
Francis to train. Morgan races
horses in England. H. G.
Raymond, of St. Albans stud,
Geelong, bred Tudor Hill, whose
dam, Charm euse, is by Enfield
(imp.) from Fine Mouche (imp.)
by Singapore. Charmeuse has
done well at the stud; her
winners include Siren Song
(Caulfield One Thousand
Guineas and Flemington Mani-
fold Stakes), Toastmaster
(Adelaide Derby), Music Hall
and Beauty Case. Back in Tudor
Hill’s pedigree figures Fifinella,
a winner of the English Derby
and Oaks. Tudor Hill won at
six furlongs, but he’s bred on
staying lines.
* * *
Victoria’s trot-season wound-
»up last Friday night with a Fare-
well Free-for-All, in which
South Aussie speedster Merchant
downed a smart field of pacers
from three States. The little
fellow always hoofs it well on
the Showgrounds circuit.
+ +
South Africa defeated Aus-
tralia 9-0 (two tries and a
penalty) in the first Rugby Union
Test at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Australia’s big forwards matched
the Springbok pack in size and
in the fight for possession, and
there was little between the two
back-lines. Despite the low
scoring (only 3-0 at half-time),
it was an open game, with plenty
of bright, spectacular football.
* * *
Qn a Melbourne Cricket
Ground resembling a lake Mel-
bourne ducked Collingwood
11.13-9.7 after the Magpies had
led at each of the three intervals.
Geelong made amends for its
defeat by ’Wood by socking
Essendon 15.17-8.9. Carlton got
into “the four” by a thrilling
one-point win over Footscray,
8.8-7.13, as did Fitzroy, which
outlasted Hawthorn, 9.13-8.10.
Apart from North Melbourne’s
decimation of South, 15.7-7.16,
it must be recorded that St.
Kilda at last broke the ice, at
Richmond’s expense, 9.10-6.8.
* * *
Melbourne Cricket Ground,
specially regraded for the
Olympic Games, has defied
attempts to drain it. Even before
last Saturday’s flood it had
become waterlogged overnight
for the V.F.L. match on May
12, the first sporting event for
the eight months during which
it has been under reconstruction.
Earth beneath the topsoil is too
consolidated to drain, and some
knowledgeable coves wonder if
the ground can be restored to
natural drainage before the
Games, not to mention top
cricket.
* * *
N.S.W. and Queensland won
one each of the two Rugby
League games lately played in
Sydney, both good expositions of
the code. N.S.W. won the first
28-26, Q’land the second 28-20.
In both games the Northerners
scored six tries to N.S.W.’s four,
and had their share of good and
bad luck.
* * #
“Vinma”: Fullbacks who
scored two tries in a game (B.
9/5/’56)? Queensland fullback
Paul Costello scored two tries in
an inter-State Rugby Union
game against N.S.W. at the
Sydney Showground in 1948.
Fullbacks I can recall who have
scored one try in inter-State
Union games are L. E. Walker
(Q. v. N.S.W. at Brisbane, 1937),
B. V. Sutton (N.S.W. v. Q. at
Brisbane, 1935) and F. McD.
Murray (Vic. v. N.S.W. at Mel-
bourne, 1929).
“Lineout”: In a Rugby
League trial game in Brisbane
this year fullback McCrohon
scored two tries for Queensland
v. The Rest. Perhaps with their
help, McCrohon was selected in
the Queensland team which
played against N.S.W. in
Sydney.
“Samzac”: Jim Laker’s taking
of 10 Australian wickets in one
innings for 88 recalls the
performance against Surrey in
1899 of Bill Howell, of N.S.W.,
who accounted for the whole
side in one innings. Howell’s
figures read: 23.2 overs, 14
maidens, 28 runs, 10 wickets. It
was his first match in England.
. . . ,•
“Mid-on”: When unknown
Cambridge batsman James hit-
up a lively century against the
Australians, first Cambridge
batsman to do so since 1921,
“S. M. Herald” described him as
a “history student” while Sydney
“Telegraph” had him a “medical
student.” Looks like he made
history by going for the doctor!
* * *
Eric Cremin won the Queens-
land Open at Yeerongpilly with
the highest score since The Von
won in 1936. Cremin won by
three strokes from another
Sydney pro. (Les Wilson) with
a four-round aggregate of 294
—7l, 76, 74, 73. He’s now won
four Open titles on the Yeerong-
pilly course.
• * *
“D.A.L.”: Ivor Lund regained
his foils title in the 1956 N.S.W.
men’s championships. He won
comfortably from David
McKenzie, with Brian
McCowage third. The latter
won the title from Lund last
year. Pat Norford won the
women’s championship.
* * *
“Bookie’s Dog” : Sparse-
framed, 29-year-old Neville
Sayers looks more like a uni-
versity don than an Olympic
athlete, or the dairyfarmer he is.
His winning of the first Aus-
tralian pentathlon championship
would not have put him within
sighting distance of an Olympic
gold-medal, but Neville is a
novice at this five-pronged event,
and is bound to improve tremen-
dously. He is completely self-
taught, and trains in what
time he can spare. A typical
Sayers day: Up at .5.30, milk
150 cows, a two-mile swim in
Westernport Bay, succor 1000
fowls, ride a few circuits of his
home-made obstacle-course, fit
in a little fencing- and shooting-
practice, milk again, and round
off the day with a cross-country
run.


%
m
*
ss
*"3
3
S
r
J-
-31
vs
>
/rs
«
SW~
Australia is a partner in
world wool promotion
At home and abroad, the Australian Wool Bureau
is actively working to increase public demand for Wool.
Formed in 1936 by the Australian woolgrowers to do this
essential job, the Australian Wool Bureau by promotion,
publicity and research keeps Australians fully aware of
wool as the world’s best fibre.
Australian woolgrowers make this possible by a tax
of 4/- a bale on their wool—a tax originally imposed
at the direct request of woolgrowers themselves. The
fund so formed is used in many ways—for bulletins,
press releases, fashion services, fashion shows, market
research, services to retailers and manufacturers, retail
staff training, advertising, display literature and show-
cards, film producing, printing and distributing publica-
tions for woolgrowers, special educational work among
children, wall charts, film strips, text books, scientific
research and many other forms of wool promotion.
Nothing is overlooked that will help to make people
more wool consdous.
i
Only a small part of the total amount is spent in
Australia, for most of the Australian clip is bought for
export and the Australian Wool Bureau consequently
devotes approximately 88% of the fund to the promotion
of wool in our most valuable overseas markets.
The International Wool Secretariat
In 1937, the Australian, New Zealand and South African
Wool Hoards established the International Wool Secret-
ariat, with headquarters in London. This organisation
provides the spearhead of world wool promotion and
research. Since its establishment, additional branches
of the Secretariat have been formed in nine European
countries, as well as India and Japan. Wool promotion
activities in North America are directed by the Wool
Bureau Incorporated with headquarters in New York
and a branch in Los Angeles. In Canada, the Wool
Bureau Incorporated operates from Toronto.
Funds for world wool promotion and research are
provided by the woolgrowing industries of Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa. In North America,
American growers and other wool interests provide part
of the fund used in U.S.A. Through the International
Wool Secretariat and its world wide activities, wool
research maintains a steady progress, and overseas wool
publicity tells the world that there is no substitute for wool l
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU
414 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


Fulth lit the
Future
>b
I
Somebody remarked recently that New Guinea
is about the last real frontier of the world.
That is an exciting and a challenging thought
for Australians, for in the Trust territory and in
Papua there are 183,000 square miles of the earth’s
surface for which jye are particularly responsible.
Most of us have a fair idea of what has been
started in the development of New Guinea since
the war. We are aware of the extent of its timber
and gold, its copra and rubber, the stock farming
that has been begun, and the food and fibre crops
to which mechanisation is being increasingly
applied. f
But I can see more than this in store for New
Guinea in the future.
With its mountains towering up to 13,000 feet,
an average annual rainfall of 159 inches and large
rivers flowing south, it has an enormous potential
in hydro-electric power; higher, in fact, than
anything on the Australian mainland, not excepting
the great Snowy Mountains project.
If harnessed and channelled across Torres
Strait, that power could revolutionise the settlement
of North Australia.
Then, in country behind the Gulf of Papua,
one organisation has had such faith in the presence
of oil that it has spent nearly £l5 million in efforts
to locate it. Oil is there, somewhere. The Dutch
are exporting it from the western half of New
Guinea.
The piping of oil to tankers from any part of
that tight interior would be no obstacle to modern
engineering. The Canadians are pumping oil 718
miles across the steep Rockies from Edmonton
(Alberta) tB the Pacific coast at Vancouver.
In terms of tomorrow, then, I believe we
should be thinking of New Guinea as a source of
oil and hydro power. With either or both, our
island frontier could surpass all its present targets
and advance to a rich partnership in the Australian
economy.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
rt .fcM-- 0s
TrH^' cIC
*Du-€a£-(%L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly tup plied—
Writ, to OAVIS GELATINE: GAO 80. 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O 80. 40S8. MELBOURNE • GA.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 568. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TRADE WITH RUSSIA
"pOSSIBLY the most significant
feature of the Russian visit
to London was their offer to buy
from Britain goods worth £BOO
million to £lOOO million during
the next five years.
Giving an American view of
this offer, Drew Middleton com-
ments in “New York Times”
that the first and superficial
reason behind the approach is
the Russian hope that such an
expansion of trade would lead
to the lifting of the embargo on
the sale of strategic materials to
the Soviet.
There is, Middleton adds,
more to it than that,, and “the
position of Britain in the modern
world makes it certain that the
Russian efforts will continue”:
"“Here,is a country whose old
pre-eminence as a manufacturer
and exporter has been success-
fully challenged by Germany in
Europe, the United States in the
Americas and Japan in the Far
East. Yet Britain must export to
live—and knows it. To it now
comes the wealthy colossus of
the Soviet Union offering exten-
sive long-term trade-relations
valuable at any time but doubly
valuable now in view of Britain’s
competitive difficulties in
exports.
“T%c Soviet Union is playing
for stakes a good deal higher
than a few fast tankers. What
it seeks is the slow but steady
orientation of Britain toward the
Soviet Union and its satellites
rather than westward toward the
Atlantic community. This could
be accomplished on the founda-
tion of extensive tr-ade and, as
Mr. Khrushchev pointed out,
trade is the basis on which
‘friendship’ would be built.”
From past experiences, how-
ever, it seems more than likely
that the U.K. would want to see
the color of the Soviet money
before coming to terms. Thus
London “Economist” comments
that “while the Russian offer
has an obvious political side, it
nevertheless needs to be treated
seriously and to be analysed in
strictly economic terms”:
“Even if a third or the
requested imports are found to
be embargoed, Russia has still
made a qualified offer to import
over £5OO-million of goods from
London “Daily Express”
“MY DEAR DULLES—STILL IN THAT OLD-FASHIONED
RIG-OUT?"
Britain in five years. What
chance is there of its fulfilment?
“Light is thrown on the
Russians’ new list by the fate of
the very similar one which they
handed with a flourish of pub-
licity to a group of British
businessmen in Moscow in
February, 1954. They then
offered to buy £4OO-million-
worth of goods in the three years
1955-57, ‘given proper conditions
in respect of normalisation of
Anglo-Soviet trade.’ After this
they quickly placed several big
orders in Britain —a £7-million
order for textile-machinery, an
order for milk-bottling equip-
ment, an order for 20 trawlers,
orders for electrical equipment
and machine-tools.
“In all, orders worth over £3O
million seem to have been placed
that year. The Western countries
meanwhile made important
relaxations in their strategic
controls, notably in regard to
machinery and materials such as
copper; and, from their pitiful
level of £3.3 million in 1953,
British exports to Russia re-
covered to £lO.l million in 1954
and £22.9 million in 1955.
“But only a fraction of the
grand programme sketched-out
in Moscow was fulfilled. Russian
orders, after the initial spate,
were few. Heavy purchases 'of
copper were made once the
strategic controls were ’relaxed,
but nothing more was heard of
orders for manufactured con-
sumer-goods or for machinery
for consumer-industries, and the
order for textile-machinery was
reduced.
“One reason for this may have
been the swing of Soviet
economic policy back to the
development of heavy-industry;
but lack of sterling seems to
have played an important role.
Russia’s earnings from Britain
have expanded, sind reached £63
million last year ; but after pay-
ing other sterling bills its avail-
able resources for ‘buying
British’ have still fallen far short
of the high target set in 1954.
“The new list, then, at once
provokes the question, whether
the Russians would be able to
pay this time. How can they
find £BOO-£lOOO million for im-
ports from Britain in addition to
their other sterling needs?”
Raising further doubts, London
“Daily Telegraph” notes that
many, if not all, of the goods
the Russians want are those
which other customers also
want:
“If, therefore, British indus-
trialists contract to send capital
goods to Russia, customers in
other parts of the world will be
kept waiting even longer than
they are already. Firms at home,
who may also be waiting for
machinery in short supply, with-
out which they cannot press
ahead with their own exports,
will also experience delayed
deliveries.
“The question, therefore,
which British industrialists must
ask themselves is whether or not
to risk losing regular markets,
not subject to arbitrary political
switches of policy—the dollar-
market, for all its vicissitude?, is
far safer than the rouble-market
—in order to give Russia’s
requirements priority.
“The answer in most cases is
likely to be in the negative.”
Policy for Peace
• The Soviet’s “new look” of
amiability and its economic
offensive having produced some
straining among Western
affiances —in apparently milder
international temperatures some
countries are less eager to look
to, and spend on, their defences
—the Nato countries have, as
London “Economist” comments,
“begun the search for new
policies ; but they have hardly
got further than discovering how
difficult the search will be”:
“Caution is certainly justifi-
able. The Communist Powers
have presented the free world
with its biggest poser for years.
Is their ‘new look’ worth
encouraging in the hope that it
will lead to more humane and
really peaceful policies—or is it
merely a trap? The free nations
cannot just adopt a ‘waif-and-
see’ attitude, for the sljadow-
play behind the Iron Curtain
looks like going on for a long
time ; it would be suicidal simply
to relax and hope that freedom
will somehow survive; and
continuing doubt and disunity
among the non - Communist
countries can have exactly the
same effect as would unilateral
disarmament.
“Piecemeal panaceas have been
recommended that range from
the ineffective to the disastrous.
We are told that freedom is to
be saved by tactful silence about
political prisoners and slave-
camps ; that neutral Asia’s
gratitude can be secured by
making America hand over more
of the aid that has to-date
evoked so little gratitude; and
even that to gain Russia’s con-
fidence the West must scrap its
alliances and leave their more
exposed members to Commun-
ism’s newly tender mercies.
“To try to set out a compre-
hensive programme for the era
of all-in coexistence is admittedly
ambitious, too ambitious, no
doubt, for a single journalistic
piece; but is it not high time
some attempt was made, if only
as a starting-point? Here, then,
goes.
“The aims of a positive policy
for peace may be summarised as
these: to encourage every sign
that the Communist system is
getting (perforce perhaps) less
inhumane and less menacing,
and to press for more of the
same ; to maintain vigilance and
strength unimpaired as long as
the signs remain mere signs; and
to demonstrate, to every human
being we can reach, that the free
society holds more promise than
Communism or any other form
of despotism.”
Commander Crabb
Editorial postscripts to the
political hullabaloo which
followed the disappearance of
frogman Commander Crabb in
the vicinity of the Russian
cruiser Ordzhonikidze in Ports-
mouth harbor:
“Manchester Guardian": “If
Commander Crabb had suc-
ceeded in his mission, whatever
it was, we should never have
heard a word about it. Because
he is presumed to have died, and
because his tracks were insuffi-
ciently covered, the Prime
Minister has ordered disciplinary
action against his superiors. That


DO YOU SUFFER DAILY WITH
STRESS DYSPEPSIA
Modern high-pressure living brings with it ailments that are
themselves modern, such as stress dyspepsia. Anxiety over
business, crowds, noise, hurried meals, etc., gives rise to
sleeplessness, gastric disturbances, stomach ulcers, indigestion.
Modern medical men recognise these ailments as symptoms of
a condition . . . the all-too-common condition of stress dyspepsia.
You could take a holiday,
get away from it all . . . but
can you? Let's face it then—
the stresses of modern high-
pressure life are-here to stay.
If you’re going to stay along
with them you’ve got to learn
to live with . . . stress
dyspepsia.
STRICT DIETING HELPS
By avoiding irritant foods
the condition can often, to
some extent, be alleviated.
Modern medicine, however,
challenges the permanency of
dieting’s effect; says that food
itself causes much less gastric
irritation than do the every-
day stresses of life. In other
words, stress dyspepsia!
MODERN SCIENCE HAS
PROVIDED A DUAL ANSWER
No “magic formula,” Dual-
Active tablets are simply a
logical development, reacting
in two ways ... (1) as a
digestive aid to soothe the
stomach and act as a barrier
against excess acidity . .'. (2)
as a safe, non-habit-forming
sedative to ease ragged nerves,,
break the stress-acid cycle.
Dual-Active tablets give LAST-
ING relief and are easy to
carry In pocket or handbag.
Write NOW.
A SAFE, SIMPLE TREATMENT
Each package contains both
acid-neutraliser (white) and
sedative (pink) tablets, to be
taken according to clearly set
out instructions. Dual-Active
tablets are NOT just another
antacid; they are a complete
medically-approved TREAT-
MENT for stress dyspepsia,
recognisedly a physical condi-
tion and which can be treated.
Send to-day.
SEND 20/- FOR FULL COURSE
OR WRITE FOR FREE LEAFLET
A full fortnight’s course of
Dual-Active tablets breaks the
vicious stress-cycle, gives you
new peace, stability, freedom
to eat what you like . . . and
to sleep. Send name and
address with 20/- to-day to
Chas. Markell Co., or send for
full FREE details of this
modern scientific method of
overcoming stress dyspepsia.
CHARLES MARKELL
COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Reg'd Wholesale Druggists, Est.
60 years. (Refer "Druggists,
131/5B Clarence St., Sydney.
Wholesale," Pink Pages.)
12
1
2
1°
>«HWW
9
4
6
Jam&id
; •«
Blessing
ALARM CLOCK
I LUMINOUS DIAL
We have a limited number of the famous, reliable
BLESSING Alarm Clocks in attractive shades of
green, cream, red or blue enamel to match your colour
scheme.
These clocks are a masterpiece of German craftsman-
ship and will give many years of satisfactory, accurate
service.
Send now for one of these famous alarm clocks at
the record low price of
BJfi&
7
251-
which includes registered
post.
American Twenty - Dollar
Lighter. Magnificent finish,
American Twenty-Dollar bill,
in coloured enamel. Only few
available! First time sold in
Australia. Only 25/-. Post
Free.
Safe , prompt arrival in good order guaranteed.
\ C.O.D. charges extra.
CUT OUT! POST NOW!
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS,
BOX 7051, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please supply
Name .
Address
283 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY. PHONE: 8M3102. B 30.5
is the penalty of their kind of
work.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “The
incident was a piece of stupidity
(if only because it was found
out), rather than iniquitous. No
doubt it was highly regrettable,
but Commander Crabb paid
dearly for it, and Mr. Gaitskell
and other Labor M.P.s cannot be
proud of their intention to make
use of it for party purposes. They
did so because they wanted to
be able to show that somebody
else had been ‘rude’ to the
Russians.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“What needs attention is the
question not of what Commander
Crabb was doing but of what
caused his death. Was it an
accident or was he killed by a
person or missile of , British or
other origin? To this point
Opposition questions gave hardly
any attention. They seemed
anxious only to suggest or
ascertain that some discourtesy
had been shown to the Russians
at Portsmouth.”
* * *
R. W. Percival in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph” : “No
doubt the topsides of the Russian
cruiser were thoroughly photo-
graphed. What more reasonable
than to complete the job under-
water? The Secret Serviee error
was not in doing its normal duty
of finding out as much as pos-
sible about a potential enemy,
but in the failure of the mission.
It was inept of them to use as
their agent an officer who was
too old for the task and not in
proper training.
“Why should it be assumed
that inquisitiveness about the
cruiser was discourteous to Mr.
Khrushchev? That gentleman
maintains in his London Embassy
no fewer than 14 Service officers
whose duty it is to discover all
they can about our forces and
those of our allies stationed in
this country.”
Atomic Submarines
Excerpts from a “U.S. News
and World Report” interview'
with Admiral Arleigh A.'Burke,
U.S. Chief of Naval Operations:
Question : How many atomic-
powered submarines do you
have ?
Answer: All the new sub-
marines that we’re asking for
are nuclear-powered, and this
year there are six on the
building-programme.
Q.: How many are in the
service now ?
A.: One, and the second one is
about to be commissioned, the
Sea Wolf.
Q.: You’re not building new
submarines that are not atomic-
powered ?
A: All new submarines will
have nuclear-power.
Q.: And the next will be
cruisers ?
A.: The next will be cruisers
and ’carriers.
Q.: Tell us, what are the new
things that you've got in the
Navy ?
A. : Well, one of the most
spectacular ones, of course, is
the Nautilus, which is out-
performing all of our expecta-
tions. She’s a remarkably good
ship, and she’s remarkably good
primarily because of her high,
sustained underwater speed. She
will do extremely well, and her
successors will do even better
as we learn more about nuclear-
power, and as we combine the
lessons that we have learned
from her and other lessons that
we have learned from other new
submarines.
Q.: What is your hope for top
speed of the atom-powered
submarine ? What will the
limit be?
A.: Oh, there may be no limit.
Well, there’s always a limit, but
the limit may be very high. What
we do, of course, is to improve
as much as we can each year,
and we’ll keep getting higher
speed all the time.
Q.: How many knots will this
submarine do ?
A.: Quite a few.
Q.: How many miles before
you have to refuel?
A. : We don’t know for sure.
The Nautilus has gone more than
a year—27,ooo miles or more—
and she hasn’t refuelled yet.
Q.: You can go at least that
far before you refuel ?,
A.: Yes.
Q.: Do you mean by that, no
assistance at sea at all ?
A.: Well
Q.: She can stay at sea for
how long a time ?
A. : She can stay at sea as
long as her men hold out. As
usual, in most of these things it’s
manpower—the ability of a man.
Q.: Would you say six
months ?
A. : It depends on the crew.
She could stay indefinitely as far
as the power-plant is concerned.
Q.: What is the big advantage
of having a ship like that at a
time like this? Could it be used
against the Russian surface-
Navy ?
A.: The big advantage of
having submarines ?
Q.: Qf having submarines of
great capabilities— —
A.: You can use them against
surface-craft, of course —that’s
always a good use, against all
the merchant-marine, and every
other surface-ship. Russia is
building-up a right sizeable
merchant-marine. But one of the
Nautilus’s primary uses is against
enemy submarines. Our sub-
marines aj;e intended to be
anti-submarine ships as well as
anti-surface ships.
Q.: Is the Nautilus an anti-
submarine ship?
A.: Not specifically. The
Nautilus started-off not as an
experimental ship, but her
primary duty was to test her
new engineering-plant. But she
will be used as an anti-submarine
ship, too.
Q.: That’s a relatively new
development, isn’t it ?
A.: It was developed during
the war; the first concept was
during the war, when we got
some Japanese submarines with
our submarines, it is d rela-
tively new development.
Rice for Asia
In a rather cool wind from
the tropics, “Singapore Standard”
suggests that Australia’s way to
becoming “one of Asia’s main
rice-suppliers” may not be as
simple as it seems.
In a comment that could be
taken more as a guide to possible
future difficulties than as criti-
cism, the paper points out that,
although the modern methods
envisaged by an Australian-
American syndicate can make
for rapid progress in rice-
production, “to sell it in Asian
markets is a different proposi-
tion” :
“Rice is rice to non-rice eaters,
but the millions of Asians whose
staple is rice have acquired
different tastes for various types
of rice-grains. Even granted that
the syndicate can grow rice
cheaper in northern Australia,
the consumers in Malaya would
want to know whether the type
of rice it produces would suit
their palate.
“It would be wrong for anyone
outside Asia to imagine from
reports of famines and increase
in population in Asian lands that
the people of Malaya, for
instance, would be thankful for
cheap Australian rice, or for any
kind of rice. Malayans, thank
their lucky stars, have for over
10 decades of prosperity
developed a discriminating palate
for certain grades of rice pro-
duced in Thailand.
“There was a time when rice
from all South-East Asian lands
was available here [Malaya] and
yet the majority of the people
preferred the higher-priced Thai
rice. The moment the starvation
days of the occupation were over,
Malayans went back to their
traditional love—Thai rice. That
is why, apart from political snags
and currency snags, Burma rice
has not recovered its lost ground
here yet. Besides, the Chinese,
who have handled the rice-trade
of South-East Asian countries for
generations, have a vast network
of connections in this area that
can give short shrift to any com-
petitor from outside this region.
“There is more to the rice-
trade in these parts than the Aus-
tralian syndicate’s belief in mere
supply and demand. And then
there arise political considera-
tions. In an area where native
nationalism is hostile to anything
and anybody tinged with
colonial hues, the people may
not like to deal extensively with
Australia, though non-native
middlemen are prepared to
do so.
“These are factors that Aus-
tralian exporters must include
in their calculations. The pre-
sent exports of primary products
to Malaya from Australia have
been built-up through decades
of British rule here and through
a large proportion of the people
having acquired tastes for certain
types of Western food. How long
these predilections for flour,
butter, cheese, apples, pears,
oranges and chilled-meat will
last after Malaya has become
independent only time can tell.
“The imports of these foods,
particularly chilled-meat and
milk-products, are likely to drop
when the European population
is reduced in the near future,
because Asians prefer to eat
fresh meat, fish and vegetables.
When the people here change
their eating-habits to be in tune
with their new-found freedom,
Australian exports are bound to
suffer.”
Various Voices
Sir Winston Churchill: “We
should be rash and blameworthy
were we to attempt to solve the
problem of European unity by
any violent stroke, and we must
avoid violence by every means
in our power. The only unity
that might come from violence
might be a unity of ashes and
death. Clearly it would be fatal
for Nato now to relax and let
apathy overtake what has been
achieved by the efforts and
financial sacrifices of the last
eight years.”
General Sir John Glubb : “We
believe in personal freedom, in
freedom of conscience ; we don’t
like police-States or concentra-
tion-camps. But there is not a
man in the Middle East who-
believes we have these ideals.
They say it is Russia who is the
benefactor of the world. We
must be clear what our ideals
are, and when we have cleared
our own minds, we must tell
other people, and use the modem
devices of science to reach every
man and woman in the world.
Don’t let us deceive ourselves
or anyone else that we live only
for oil and rubber.”
W. F. Deedes, Joint Par-
liamentary Under - Secretary,
Home Office: “A hostile press is
not only stimulating for any
Government; it is a great safe-
guard against a Government
taking liberties.”
Britain's Secretary of State for
Commonwealth Relations, the
Earl of Home : “To concede full
self-government before a country
can guarantee law and order to
its people or tolerance with its
neighbors would be to betray a
trust and make no contribution
to peace. But there are no
written laws to which a country
has to subscribe before it can
be a member of the Common-
wealth.”
Canadian Foreign Minister
Lester Pearson: “We are now
faced by the challenge from the
Communist bloc of competitive
coexistence, or, to put it another
way, of all conflict short of full-
scale war. This may be an im-
provement on the imminent
possibility of nuclear devastation,
but it is a long way from the
security of co-operative co-
existence.”
Prime Minister Eden: “For
my part, I will not accept a
situation where the Great Powers
of the world stand lowering at
each other and consume a large
part of their wealth on
armament-expenditure. Here is
our policy: We will not be
parted from our friends, nor will
we abandon our vital interests,
but we will seek agreements with
all.”
Mr. John Foster Dulles: “In
some places Soviet foreign policy
is baited with economic lures
which may superficially seem
attractive. But close scrutiny
shows that the bait is attached to
a hook and that the hook is
attached to a line, the other end
of which is purposefully held by
Moscow.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Returning Migrants
“Everyone should be in his Fatherland.
Many are going back now because con-
ditions have changed there. After the
Olympic Games more will go home . . .
not only Russians but all New Aus-
tralians.”
That statement by a Russian migrant
on the eve of his departure from Aus-
tralia after living here for 18 years might
sound like propaganda, but it needs
consideration. Although Immigration
Minister Holt has said officially that “the
Government placed no restriction on the
movement of people who wanted to
leave,” the fact that any migrant should
want to leave Australia is a challenge to
our way of life.
It might be timely to pose the return-
ing Russian a question or two, and
remind him—and others thinking of
following his example—of a few pertinent
facts before he finally disappears behind
the Iron Curtain.
What of his young children? Aren’t
they Australians by birth, brought up in
a country where freedom, schooling and
recreation are taken as a matter of
course? When the novelty of their
journey has worn off, will they adjust
themselves to a standard of life which,
we are led to believe, is far removed
from what they have been accustomed
to?
In the past Australia has had some
adverse publicity from disgruntled
migrants, British and European, but
thousands are still clamoring to come
here, and are being admitted in hundreds
every week. Our post-war record of
over one-million migrants is impressive,
and every year sees New Australians
eager o become naturalised at ceremonies
held ...coughout the Commonwealth.
From a migrant’s view, Australia has
everything to offer in a world of
constantly changing alliances: citizen-
ship, stable home-life, freedom of move-
ment, of worship and of cultural activi-
ties, and good working-conditions.
There are other things, too. Remember
the Petrov affair? Or the quashing in
Sydpey recently of the Yugoslav Gov-
ernment’s attempts to have a former
national, now a naturalised Australian,
extradited? Or the mercy-dash to Heard
Island by H.M.A.S. Australia to succor
a sick migrant doctor?
Those are but some of the tangible
assurances that Australia protects whom
it admits. — Rkol (Vic.).
Hotels
“The Hotel and the Tourist” (B.
4/4/’56) confirmed my experiences in
Australia two years ago. I was appalled
by the condition of city and country
hotels. I travelled extensively through
W.A., S.A. and Victoria, and those in
Victoria were by far the worst.
I have been on long safaris in Kenya,
Uganda, Tanganyika, Belgian Congo and
Southern Rhodesia, and have seen noth-
ing as bad as most of the Australian
hotels. ‘I have just returned from a trip
to England and Scotland, where reason-
able hours are kept. It was a pleasure to
have a quiet drink in the cities and to
drop-in and enjoy the courtesy and
warmth of those wonderful old country
inns.
Here in Kenya, the hours are from
11 a.m. or noon to 2 p.m., then again
from 6 p.m. till about 10.30 p.m. The
same on Sundays and holidays. There
are efficient Goans or Africans behind the
counter, and barefooted, neatly garbed
natives serving silently in the lounges.
The trouble here is not the quality of
the hotels but the quantity. Accommoda-
tion is fully booked, and the many
wealthy American tourists who come
here on big-game safaris or filming-
expeditions complain bitterly on that
score.— Houghhnhnm (Kenya).
Queensland Hospitals
Most Queenslanders find ’it hard to
understand all the hubbub in N.S.W.
and Victoria about reduced means-tests
and increased hospital-fees. Our system
of completely free hospital-services is
taken for granted. I don’t know how
Queensland manages it when wealthier
States cannot, but it might pay the other
States to investigate.— Nursie (Q.).
Filling the North
Fifty or 60 years ago Clifford Sifton,
as Canada’s Minister for Interior, did for
his country what nobody ever seems
game to do for Australia —he initiated
a genuine scheme to populate the
equivalent of our Northern Territory.
Sifton came to his country’s aid just
before the turn of the century and after
everybody else had failed to establish
large-scale settlement in Canada’s vast
and then people-hungry north-western
territories, now the provinces of
Saskatchewan and Alberta —a total area
of 506,985 square-miles.
At that time British dominion over the
region depended largely on peopling it
quickly, but neither the Canadian Gov-
ernment’s offer of free homesteads to
newcomers nor the completion (in
1885) of the transcontinental Canadian
Pacific Railway produced anything like
what was hoped for. Open over a
number of years, the Government’s offer
brought only 20,000 settlers, while the
C.P.R. could sell only a meagre fraction
of its 25-million acres adjoining its
tracks.
By the mid-1890’s the position had
reached stalemate. Where hundreds of
thousands had been visualised —and were
urgently needed —there were only about
60,000 white settlers.
In 1896 Clifford Sifton took-over in
spectacular fashion. Having first
organised for wholesale immigration, he
“Nae, I dinna say Scotch —I Want Australian whusky."
deluged half the world' with pamphlets
extolling Canada’s north-west and offer-
ing free land to anyone caring to “come
and get it.” At one stage he had 21
advertising-agencies on the job of pump-
ing out pamphlets in a dozen or more
languages.
Sifton invited newspapers in other
countries to send writers (as Canada’s
guests) to see for themselves the free land
which was going begging. He hand-
picked some of the more successful
earlier settlers from the U.S.A. and the
U.K. and sent them on tours in their
homelands spreading his gospel. He
sold huge tracts of the north-west region
to colonisation companies at give-away
prices, and then used more Treasury funds
to pay them a bonus for every new settler
they could produce.
Meanwhile the far-seeing Sifton had
set-up 90 migrant-camps—each with a
“Take a spell, Harry — l'll give the Mixmaster a go."
team of interpreters— at railheads and
points along stage-coach routes. One
spectacular influx was a whole colony
of 7000 Russians of the mystic Douk-
hobor cult, with every man of them ready
with his 10-dollar registration-fee for a
land-grant of 160 acres.
By the turn of the century the 60,000
population had grown to 160,000. By
1911 it was 800,000. Today Saskatchewan
and Alberta have about two-million
people between them. Australia’s N.T.,
with an area much larger than the two
Canadian provinces, hasn’t yet reached
20,000.
At the moment, of course, we can get
out of our embarrassment by arguing that
any specific scheme to encourage a land-
rush to the N.T. would cut right across
our general immigration-programme.
True, but it wouldn’t be illogical to
devise some scheme whereby a big per-
centage of migrants were channelled for
a given period to the North. This would
have the double-barrelled effect of
initiating big-scale settlement in the
North and at the same time easing the
impact of migration in our capital cities.
Anyhow, why not start filling our
northern void ourselves? There’d be
thousands of adventurous, independent-
minded young Australians, Old and New,
who’d jump at the chance of carving-out
their own lives in the N.T., which, from
all accounts, is about the last great tract
of British-owned country still in an*
infant state of settlement and develop-
ment.
Launched on a small scale as a trial,
any ffree-land scheme in the N.T. for
local talent should appeal to our younger
generation’s imagination. Especially if
given the Sifton-touch. — Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Those Volunteers
Post-war prosperity has made it hard
to find people with spare time for unpaid
public work. Many have been busy with
overtime and many others have held two
jobs.
Government servants have worked as
bookies’ clerks;, bank-officers have
“done-up” the books of small businesses ;
schoolteachers have instructed migrants
in their spare time; and policemen have
worked as laborers.
Even the kids have been too busy
working for the butcher, the baker and
the service-station to collect bottles for
the hospital or stamps for the Red Cross
as they used to do.
All this has had a mixed effect on
charitable organisations. Some people
have eased their consciences by paying in
cash what they previously contributed in
work. This has enabled some charities
to employ more paid secretaries and
skilled tradesmen instead of enthusiastic
amateurs, but all are not equally
flourishing.
There are still some committees of
sporting bodies and charitable organisa-
tions which look forward to a slight
recession to increase their pool of
voluntary labor. Then the schoolteacher
may once more act as honorary secretary,
with the bank-clerk as treasurer and the
shopkeeper as chairman.—L. R. M. H.
(W.A.).
Employee Relations
“Ringer” (B. 9/5/’56) strikes an
important note when he stresses the need
for good human-relations in business and
the desire of the average man for “some
personal feeling of .responsibility and
usefulness in his job.”
The attention paid to employer-
employee relationships in America is
probably the main reason why, on the
whole, industrial harmony is more pro-
nounced in that country than in Australia.
Secretary of the Institute of Public
Affairs N. H. Warren, lately back from
a visit to the U.S., has pointed out that,
while the Australian worker lists his
principal wants as security in employ-
ment, high pay, ample holidays and good
working - conditions, the American
worker puts recognition as his first
requirement.
As a result, American management
spends large sums annually to explain
to employees what capitalism means and
how it ticks —the function of profits, the
relation of higher productivity to higher
living-standards and the aims and opera-
tions of the business in which the worker
is employed.
Further, American business-leaders set
an example to their employees by arriv-
ing early in the day at the office or
factory and working hard. And many
industrialists regard uiiion-leaders not as
sworn foes but as business-associates.
Australian leaders of industry, it would
seem, could learn a great deal from
closer acquaintance with the ways of
their counterparts across the Pacific. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Education
In deciding to charge fees for its even-
ing colleges the N. S. Wales Government
has given a pointer to the solution of its
own and other State’s education-
problems.
Education’s greatest current difficulty
is lack of money. That is the cause of
the shortages of staff, classrooms and
equipment and lagging maintenance-
programmes. Yet the respective State
Governments aren’t mean about educa-
tion. N. S. Wales, for instance, spends
about £35 million a year on it. Any
increase must be at the expense of other
public works and services.
There are two other possible sources
of money for education —the Common-
wealth Government and the parents of
the children being educated. Since the
Commonwealth is unlikely to budge from
its stand that education is the responsi-
bility of the States, it seems that parents
must be prepared to shoulder part of the
burden.
If, as in Parkes’s day, education were
no more than instruction in the three R s,
it would be a relatively simple task for
Governments to pay for it. Today, how-
ever, it is much more than that. With
the tremendous growth of high schools
and the army of psychologists, specialist-
teachers and administrators, the expendi-
ture is rising beyond any State Govern-
ment’s purse.
Charging school-fees would not, of
course, solve all the Governments educa-
tion-problems, but it would help. It
would also have a beneficial effect on
parents and students. Because they have
to pay fees parents of students in private
schools are more interested in their
children’s progress and the welfare of the
school. —Badiped (N.S.W.).


Legal Notice
WILLIAM' ANDREW MACK IK, son of
JOHN MACKIE and MARGARET
MAOKIE (born MELVILLE), died in New
South Wales, Australia, on 15th Sep-
tember, 1947, intestate as to his estate.
It is believed that the paternal grand-
parents of said WILLIAM ANDREW
MAOKIE were WILLIAM MAOKIE and
ELIZABETH MAOKIE (bom CRAW-
FORD), and that his maternal grand-
parents were JOHN MELVILLE and
JEAN (or JANE) MELVILLE (born
PARK), who later married ANDREW
LUSK. —PURSUANT to an order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity, dated 10th December, 1954, and
made in suit (No. 1271 of 1954) in-
tituled “In the Matter of the Estate
of WILLIAM ANDREW MAOKIE late of
Narrandera in the State of New South
Wales, Retired Farmer and Grazier, de-
ceased, Between the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(plaintiff) and ANDREW MELVILLE
MAOKIE (Defendant),” whereby the fol-
lowing inquiry was directed, viz.: —who
were the persons entitled (according to
the Statutes for the distribution of
intestate estates) to the estate of the said
WILLIAM ANDREW MAOKIE deceased
living at his death, and whether any of
them are since dead and if so who are
their legal person al representatives.—
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry are to send by post prepaid
to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, so as
to reach him on or before the 27th July,
1956 their full Christian- and sur-
names, addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order unless the Court
or the Master in Equity on application
otherwise orders. Claimants are to attend
personally or by solicitor or counsel be-
fore the Master in Equity at 'the Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on
Tuesday, the 14th August, 1956, at 11
a.m., being the time appointed for adjudi-
cation upon the claims, and then prove
their claims by legal evidence. A
claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim
the name and address of a solicitor or
other person in New South Wales to
whom notices to the claimant may be
sent. Claimants are advised to send their
claims by two mails, with an interval
.of a week, using air-mails if posting out-
side Australia. Particularly sought are
any descendants of MARY MACKIE,
daughter of WILLIAM MACKIE and
ELIZABETH MACKIE (born CRAW-
FORD). DATED 10th May, 1956.
RITCHIE & ARNOLD, Solicitors for
Plaintiff, 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
-N.S.W., Australia.
$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
Q
WELL
LININGS
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, V/ell Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
•o'SUUJYAN
3ft, VTX-IJU. %
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Down cnntes * °
, wUltOlH© • • •— —
1
Co*
PV>"”
lfi'°
to ftOO<*
O.N*
kMx
„oo^
ll»
a^ c *
me
Writt to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
“0," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
copy of SMALL
l HOMES BOOK.
WHEN YOU USE "DURABESIOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WALLS, INTERIOR WALLS ANO CEILINSS,
you get right down to bedrock cost. You gain
both ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
*DURABiSTOS^^SmETS
DISCIPLINE
By MAUREEN LUSON
WHEN George Upshott
arrived home and
found the children
waiting by the gate he
knew that there had been trouble
again; he put on his glasses,
squared his shoulders, and
kissed Thomas (11), Sarah
(nine), and William (four).
“And what sort of a day have
you had?” he asked brightly.
“Lousy,” said Thomas.
“Orful,” said Sarah.
“Buddy,” said William.
“Bloody,” George corrected.
“But why not say ‘stinking’?
Doesn’t it express your feelings
just as forcefully?”
“No,” said William.
George smiled determinedly,
Thomas shrugged, and Sarah
giggled shrilly. George
wondered if the vibrations be-
tween himself and his daughter
were not as harmonious as they
should be. He patted her head
and said, “Ladies first. What
happened, Sarah?”
Sarah spoke indistinctly
through the plait she was chew-
ing.
“I rolled on Mum’s carna-
tion-bed. I was a steam-
roller.”
“You were? Now, why?”
inquired George.
“I wanted Mum to make some
dolls’-clothes and she said she
was too busy in the garden.
And she’s always fussing over
those silly flowers.”
“So you had the urge to
destroy them? Yes, that was
reasonable. Children should
come before the garden. What
then?”
“I was dirty, so I went and
had a shower. And then I lay
on my bed and read a book.
And Mum came and shouted
‘You horrible little wretch!’
and spanked me with my hair-
brush.”
“She said she supposed she’d
get over the carnations, but
Sarah should’ve undressed be-
fore she had her shower,”
explained Thomas.
“I thought she’d be pleased I
washed my dress as well as me,”
said Sarah.
“Of course,” George nodded.
“Your mother's action was very
uncontrolled. What happened
to you, Thomas?”
“I painted centipedes—big,
black centipedes—on the living-
room wall. The citron wall,”
said Thomas.
“Interesting. Was there any
special significance in the centi-
pedes, son?”
“Oh, yes, Dad. They were all
my frustrations itching inside
me. And I got rid of them
beaut.”
“Fine. But why the citron
wall?”
“Well, you know you' painted
one wall maroon, and one olive-
green, one black and one
citron?”
“Yes. Just a week ago,” said
George gently.
“There was only one wall
right for black centipedes, Dad.
Wasn’t there?”
“So there was. And now
what are we to do with the
citron wall. Leave the centi-
pedes on it?”
“Don’t be dilly, Dad. We’ll
paint it all black.”
“Son,” said George admir-
ingly, “you have something
there. Does Mother agree?”
“I don’t know. She came in
and, let out a yell and belted me
with the dustpan. She called
me a Yahoo.”
frowned. “I’m
afraid she was the uncivil-
ised one. I hope you took it
like a man, Thomas.” «.
“Sure. I just looked her
straight in the eye and said I’d
leave you to deal with her later.”
“Good. Very good.” George
smiled his approval. “Now,
William, what have you to
report?”
“I c’lected worms all the morn-
ing, Daddy. A whole bucketful
of worms.”
“Why, that was nice of you,
Williapi. Now I won’t have to
dig them myself.”
“You will,” said Thomas
darkly.
“Yes, ’cos Mum killed them
all. Some she stamped on and
most she shovelled into the
garbage-bin.” William’s voice
was agonised.
“She destroyed a whole
bucketful of bait?” George
reeled before this blow.
“And she whacked William
with the basting-spoon, and he’s
got red marks on his bottom,”
retailed Sarah with relish.
“The bucket wouldn’t go in the
fridge,” said William, “so I took
the worms out and put them on
a big plate.”
“And they wriggled all over
the jellies and the roast, and
some were drowned in the
orange-juice, screamed Sarah,
jigging up and down.
“I fort,” elucidated William,
“they’d freeze up quick.”
“He can only learn by experi-
ence,” said Thomas.
“Yes, indeed,” agreed George
faintly. “I’ll go and speak to
your mother now. You had
better stay out here, children.”
TTE found his wife in the
kitchen, busy at the sink,
which was usual; but she was
weeping into the suds, which was
not.
She did not wait for George
to speak. -
“‘Never put yourself in the
wrong! Never lose your temper!
Children are very reasonable!’
Theories! I’ve had them. I’m
telling you, George Upshott,
either our children are brought-
up the old-fashioned way, or I
quit!” She glared at him with
red-rimmed eyes.
“Lilian, I’m shocked and
grieved at you.” George, his head
bowed, sat at the cluttered table ;
out of the corner of his eye he
perceived part of a decapitated
worm, still wriggling, on the
floor.
“George—they aren’t children
—they’re devils incarnate!”
“I’m ashamed of you, my dear.
I shall be forced to punish you,
of course. It will hurt me a
great deal more than it hurts you.
But I am prepared to suffer for
the sake of our innocent little
ones.”
George got the basting-spoon
out of the drawer.
“Oh, no! ” begged Lilian.
“Not that, please. I’ll —I’ll apolo-
gise to them. I’ll try to do better
tomorrow. But not that!”
“You must take your punish-
ment in the spirit in which it is
given,” George told her. He
went to Sarah’s room and fetched
the hairbrush ; took the dustpan
out of the cupboard.
Back in the kitchen, he
removed his coat.
“George—l’m sorry. I realise
I’m entirely to blame,” said
Lilian humbly.
“I’m glad. But that doesn’
shake my firm resolution, dear.
The future of our country
depends on the rooting-out of
this evil of parental delinquency.
Are you ready, Lilian?”
'T'HE three children, clustered
outside the kitchen-door,
heard the thwacks.
“She didn’t holler,” said
Thomas.
“Dad did, the last time he got
it,” said Sarah. “When Mum
used the broom.”
“We’re going to have a beaut,
few days now,” said Thomas
happily.
“Yes,” Sarah giggled. “She’ll
let us wreck everything.”
William asked, “D’you fink
snails or cockaloaches’d freeze-up
quickest?”
SHEEP SONG
The hills, like sheep, lie on the plain
For wind to shear their fleece of grass—
Cutting down each ridge for the long blow,
Clearing the flanks, to gullies edging-down.
But moving sheep are softly-mounded hills-
On the plain of rusty afternoon;
Their dogs are shearers, clipping the mob in close
Till it lies a golden fleece spread under the sun.
And earth is an old and wrinkled sheep
Moving its fleece in the light,
Fleece of mountain and plain and curling seas,
Waiting on blades of the black shearer, Night,
For some celestial classer to mark up,
Against the quality of worlds and stars,
The jostling mob that swings across the void—
Saturn the many-ringed, the moon and Mars.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Amongst the thous-
ands of present-day
sheep and cattle
owners who mark and
tail lambs and mark
calves with “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
are many who have
been users of the rings
ever since the Elas-
trator method was
first introduced into
Australia nine years
ago. This lasting sup-
port of what was
originally a new and
revolutionary idea is
surely convincing
proof that the rtibber
ring method offers
definite advantages
over the methods it
superseded.
S3S
11
m
ms
msm-t
s
ss
The new 3 h.p, “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS' BOY
MAJOR”
*
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a ly h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 74 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney. BW 9047.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BW 1511.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St.. Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
71 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major”
and Accessories.
NAME *
ADDKESS
of normal seasons the liver-fluke
will thrive and cause disease.
Black-disease, which is associ-
ated with fluke-infestation, is a
widespread menace. Losses can
be very great in sheep which
have not been vaccinated. Any
sheepowner who is in doubt
whether liver-fluke is present in
sheep on a given property
should consult his local veterin-
ary-officer, stock-inspector or a
qualified veterinary practitioner.
Attacking the Parasite
If one thinks of the worm-
parasite as the enemy almost
the whole terminology of mili-
tary planning may be applied.
This was done years ago by the
late Maurice Hall in the U.S.A.,
and much of the following com-
ments have their origins in his
work.
Strategic attacks may be re-
ferred to as seasonal, regular or
long-range, and should be part
of the normal management of a
flock, as with shearing, crutch-
ing and dipping. Tactical attacks
depend on quick recognition of
conditions favorable for the
parasites.
Strategic attacks depend on
what has been discovered about
the seasonal changes in the
worm-burdens of sheep. There
appears to be a reasonably regu-
lar series of changes related
chiefly to climate and the
seasonal course of animal-
husbandry. Young sheep are
very susceptible to worm-infes-
tation, and the arrival of lambs
signals the beginning of a new
burst of activity by the parasites.
Strategic attacks, therefore,
include special attention to the
lambs, first by treatment of ewes
a month before lambing to cut-
dff the supply of eggs before the
pastures become heavily conta-
minated, and second by drench-
ing the lambs at weaning-time
before they are turned-out to
fend for themselves. Seasonal
changes in worm-burdens have
been worked-out from the
xrcw °r> man 7 nelcbtrials in
.5.w., Queensland, lasmama,
b.A. and WA. Here are the
°? the times for
strategic drenching:
s unamer-rainfall regions
mC *°! lOWin S P lan 1S re com-
m *n e ■
rr , RENCH ■ January-
February treat to prevent the
late-summer rise in barber s-pole
woim. Phenothiazine is best,
u carbon-tetrachloride or
bluestone-nicotine or bluestone-
arsenic may be used.
Drench 2: In early May treat
to reduce the number of nodule-
worms before winter ; to prevent
a carryover of barber’s-pole
worms into the winter; and to
forestall the autumn-rise of
black-scour worms. About this
time of the year or earlier, de-
pending on individual property-
management, there will be a
weaning-time drench for spring
lambs and a pre-lambing drench
for ewes to lamb in late autumn.
Drench 2 should be phenothia-
zine.
Drench 3: Drench at the end
of June to remove nodule-worms
which have emerged from
nodules since Drench 2, and as
a second attack on black-scour
worms. Phenothiazine should be
used.
Drench 4: The dose of
phenothiazine toWards the end
of August is probably the most
important drench of the year.
It forestalls the spring-rise of
barber’s-pole worm ; it removes
nodule-worms before they begin
a new season’s cycle of infesta-
tion ; it prevents a carryover of
black-scour worms into the
spring; and it is a pre-lambing
drench for ewes to lamb in the
spring.
Drench 5: About mid-Octo-
ber treat as a second attack
against barber’s - pole worm.
Phenothiazine is best, but
carbon-tetrachloride, bluestone^
THE WOOL CARD—Obtainable from The Bulletin Office (see page 66).
T&J&uUetin BRADFORD TYPE CARD
Showing nine standard types of wool as required for the'
Bradford market.
t. VERY FINE MERINO. 745. Superior to 70s, with same
characteristics. Should be classed separately
* t FINE MERINO. 70s SPINNERS QUALITY. Characteristic
Very soft Square tip. dense compact .staple. Numerous fine crimp
3. MEDIUM MERINO. 64a QUALITY. Soft Good length. Cn®p
plainly visible.
4. STRONG MERINO. 60s QUALITY. Soft. Bold, showy crimp
with increased length of staple.
S. COMEBACK. 58s Pointed tip. Average cbk. staple not so wel)
defined as merino and lacks its definite crimp.
6 FINE X-BRED OR QUARTER-BRED 565. QUALITY.
Crimps larger and more pronounced thao merino. Has harsher, springy
touch and longer staple with pointed Up
l MEDIUM X-BRED OR HALF-BRED 50* QUALITY
Broader crimp and longer staple than 565. Wool may show light golden
lustre.
& STRONG X-BRED OR THREE-QUARTER-BRED 465.
QUALITY. Bold wavy crimp. Long lustrous.staple. Fibres noticeably
coarser and harsher. /
9. X-BRED (Lincoln type). 40*. QUALITY Coarse-fibred, long
lustrous staple with pointed spiral tip. Broad wavy character.
HOW WOOL IS AFFECTED BY CROSS BREEDING
Type 9 mated with Type 4 results in Type 7 (Half-bred)
.. 9 7 ~ „ 8 (Three-quarter-bred)
.. 9 - .. 6 „ „ 7to 8 (variable)
« 4 . .. 7 6 (Quarter-bred)
.. 4 ... 6 „ Comeback
.. 3 ... 5 Fine Comeback
Merino Type 2 m«y be croued with Type 3. and 3 with 4. but crouing a Fine Wool
with a Strong Wool doe. not >e.ylt in a Medium Wool—merely a fleece of Wised 'UsUtte*
nicotine or bluestone-arsenic
may be used.
For winter-rainfall regions the
following plan is recommended:
(1) Lambs at about 10 weeks
should be treated with bluestone-
nicotine.
• (2) Lambs should be treated
at weaning with phenothiazine.
(3) Weaners should be treated
at the end of summer with
phenothiazine.
(4) Weaners should be treated
about the end of May with
phenothiazine.
(5) Ewes should be treated one
month before lambing with
phenothiazine.
There are still many regions
in Australia where the seasonal
activity of parasites has not been
clearly defined, so no definite
times for strategic drenching
may be set. In these regions
follow the general principles of
drenching ewes a month before
lambing, lambs at weaning and
weaners in the late winter and
late summer. Phenothiazine is
best for all treatments. Where
there is any doubt about the
timing of treatments in a district
consult the veterinary-officer,
stock-inspector or veterinary
practitioner.
The timing of tactical attacks
calls for good management and
a knowledge of the factors
favoring worm-infestation. Rain-
fall is the chief indicator, and,
as already noted, it should be a
general principle to drench 15-20
days after a good fall of several
days has thoroughly saturated
the ground. Another warning of
heavy contamination of pastures
is overcrowding, which may be
local in a paddock when sheep
are seeking fresh green feed on
a frontage, or general when a
large number of sheep is placed
on a grazing-crop or improved-
pasture. Well-fed sheep can
withstand the effects of an infes-
tation already present, but when
the level of nutrition falls the
worms begin to add to the cdn-
sequences. It is wise, therefore,
to drench whenever pastures
deteriorate or sheep lose condi-
tion.
Currently in most of N.S.W. a
tactical treatment is necessary.
In many instances the damage
resulting from delays in drench-
ing is already apparent and
drenching is required to salvage
the sheep. '
Liver-fluke
Wet seasons and the rising
cattle-population have increased
the menace of liver-fluke. A
control-plan requires a combina-
tion of drenching and an attack
on the snail, which is the inter-
mediate host. Preventive drench-
ing is recommended for April,
June and August. A drench
about mid-August is essential to
avoid contamination of pastures
in the spring.
Cattle are good hosts for the
fluke, and by spending a great
deal of their time in swampy
places where the snails abound,
they provide opportunities for a
• rapid increase in fluke-numbers.
Moreover, cattle are seldom
drenched.
Regular drenching of sheep
will reduce the fluke provided
there are no cattle or rabbits on
the property. Where these other
hosts are present it is essential
to attack the snails by drainage,
and with compounds which will
kill them. The application of
compounds such as copper-
sulphate or copper-pentachlor-
phenate calls for considerable
care and experience if time and
the compounds are not to be
wasted. It appears to be ri|Uch
more effective to apply com-
pounds by spraying rather than
broadcasting.
The Right Drench?
There are many provisos in
discussing the merits of the
various drugs used in drenches
for sheep and cattle. A very
brief summary:
For treatment against liver-
fluke carbon-tetrachloride and
hexachlorethane are the only
effective drugs. The former is
preferred for sheep, the lattfer for
cattle.
Tapeworms may be killed by
arsenical compounds. If the
arsenical is in soluble form it
is essential to combine it with
bluestone (copper-sulphate) or
administer a small dose of blue-
stone a few seconds beforehand.
For other worm-parasites
phenothiazine is the most effec-
tive drug. Not only does it act
independently of the swallowing
mechanism, being equally effec-
tive whether swallowed into
paunch or fourth stomach, but it
is more effective against the
immature worms than other
drenches.
Carbon-tetrachloride is effec-
tive against barber’s-pole worm
and has the added merit of
acting even though swallowed
into the paunch. The “double-
strength” preparations must be
used for this purpose, and in
grown sheep it is necessary to
give a double dose of “double-
strength” to achieve the high
degrees of efficiency necessary
in outbreaks.
Tetrachlorethylene is effective
against barber’s-pole worm and
black-scour worm provided it is
swallowed into the fourth
stomach. It is essential, there-
fore, to precede it with a “stimu-
lating” dose of bluestone —say,
10 c.c. of a 10 per cent, solution
—so that the drench will pass
directly into the fourth stomach
in a high proportion of sheep.
Bluestone alone is effective
against barber’s - pole worm.
Generally, in grown sheep the
commonly recommended doses
are efficient, and it is
better to use bluestone-nicotine
or bluestone-arsenic. Bluestone-
nicotine is also effective against
black-scour worm.
Arsenic is effective against
barber’s-pole worm and tape-
worm only if swallowed into the
fourth stomach. This occurs
only in about 50 per cent, of
sheep, and the drench is com-
pletely wasted in the other 50
per cent., in which it is
swallowed into the paunch.
The Right Way to Drench
There is a great deal of bad
drenching which often wastes the


'A
4fiP
THE
SIEMENS
“2000”
16mm. Sound
Film Projector
"THE BEST limm. SOUND FIIM PROJECTOR
I'VE EVER SEEN OR USED"
—opinion expressed by the chief projectionist of a large Australian company which
employs films on a large scale for public relations work.
Tlie Siemens “2000” is completely unique; it Is built on the “unit” system so that you can obtain
the exact machine for your requirements: as a silent projector, or with optical sound, and/or
magnetic sound stripe, and/or synchronised sprocketted magnetic tape. Also the choice of a
range of amplifier units and speaker combinations to suit any auditorium from a home to a hall
or theatre. The basic silent projector unit may be added to, as and when required. Illustrated
is the standard optical sound combination complete with amplifier: price, complete in two carrying
cases with built-in speaker—£396, plus tax.
The projector quality and sound fidelity are of the highest professional, standards, yet operation
of the machine is simple and foolproof. If you are considering the purchase of a 16mm.
projector (silent or sound) for any purpose, the Siemens “2000” is worth your closest Investigation.
Send for Free Illustrated Booklet
for full information abojit this
remarkable machine to:——
HANIMEX PTY. LTD.,
(Siemens Division B 5)
14 King Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Distributors.
Name
Address
Are you interested in Photography? If so, please enclose
2/6 (Postal Note or cheque) for the Hanimex Photo. Hand-
book—BB page catalogue of fine photographic equipment.
King Neptune! You 9 re right! this is...
KING-SIZE
POWER/
=J
k
Completely Eliminates Knock... Gives Instant
Starting, Better Acceleration, Maximum Power
and More Miles to the Gallon. '
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM containing IGA
1 Super’tirade with a dashing difference
NEPTUNE
03
| SB)
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM
drench and injures the sheep’s
mouth. If the race is too wide,
as many are, it is often impos-
sible to control the sheep effec-
tively, and the resulting all-in
wrestle is bad for owner and
sheep. It benefits only the worms,
A narrow 2ft.-race is satisfac-
tory for most purposes. On a
large property two sizes are use-
ful—one for lambs and weaners
and one for grown sheep.
There are many kinds of
drenching instruments on the
market, each with its own special
features. For phenothiazine, use
an instrument fitted with the
McMaster Tube sb that the
drehch can be delivered well
down into the gullet to avoid
slobbering, choking and spilling.
Remember that all metal nozzles
are likely to wear sharp and
rough and can cause injuries to
the back of the mouth if drench-
ing is careless or if sheep
struggle. Every metal nozzle
must be protected by an inch
or two of rubber tubing project-
ing about iin. beyond the tip.
There is no need to starve
sheep before or after drenching,
and when carbon-tetrachloride is
used it is most undesirable to
have them away from feed for
more than a few hours. The aim
should be to have the sheep
mustered, drenched and back in
the paddock (their own paddock
when this drench is being used)
by early afternoon, preferably
by noon.
When arsenical drenches are
used it is generally recommended
that the sheep should not have
access to water for a few hours
after treatment.
Watery drenches have a 50-50
chance of being swallowed into
the paunch (first stomach) or
into the fourth stomach. Many
drugs are not effective if they
are swallowed into the paunch
and are thus wasted. Among
them are nicotine, arsenic,
tetrachlorethylene and bluestone.
Drugs which are effective even
when swallowed into the paunch
include phenothiazine, carbon-
tetrachloride and hexachlor-
ethane.
Research in Australia and
South Africa in the early 1930’s
showed that the swallowing
mechanism of the sheep could
be influenced by a solution of
bluestone. As a drench, or
swabbed on the inside of the
mouth, bluestone affects the
swallowing mechanism in such
a way that a drench given a few
seconds later passes into the
fourth stomach in 80 or 90 per
cent, of sheep. The same effect
is achieved when the bluestone
is mixed with the other drench
provided drenching is done
slowly.
“Interrupted drenching” gives
the best results. Inject a few
c.c.’s of the mixture into the
mouth, wait appreciably—the
longer the better—and then fol-
low with the bulk of the drench.
If the whole dose is squirted
into the mouth quickly it has
only the 50-50 chance of reach-
ing the fourth stomach. Pre-
drenching or swabbing the
mouth with bluestone is much
more effective, and is quite
simple if one man works three
or four sheep ahead of the
drencher, swabbing or dosing a
small amount of concentrated
bluestone into the mouth about
10 to 20 seconds beforehand.
Other Measures
Strategic and tactical drench-
ing is preventive; curative
drenching is in the nature
of “economic salvage in
emergencies,” and there will have
been economic loss before the
sheep are restored to health and
full productivity. ’
Drenching must be supported
by management. Adequate nutri-
tion is the first essential and is
best provided by improved-
pastures. Grazing-crops are
also particularly valuable. A
rather special effect of grazing
oats has been seen in trials at
the C.5.1.R.0. regional field-
station at Armidale (N.S.W.) and
at the McMaster field-station,
Sheep infested with nodule-
worms pass most of them within
a few weeks of grazing the oats.
In areas where oats can be
grown for winter feeding, and
especially where the amount of
sown pasture may still be insuffi-
cient for the full grazing-needs
of the flock, a crop for the
weaners is one of the best means
for controlling nodule-worm.
Some kind of rotational graz-
ing and spelling is generally
recommended as part of control-
plans against worm-parasites. In
general it must be recognised
that pasture-management should
be a compromise between doing
what is best for the pastures and
the sheep and what is worst for
the worms.
The minimum period required
for eggs to reach the infective
stage is four days, and most of
the eggs and larvae on pastures
will die during a spell of three to
four weeks. Under variable
weather-conditions the period
from egg to infective larvae is
usually more than four days. An
allowance of a week is often
made, with the realisation that
it will sometimes be too long and
that the eggs will , have reached
the infective stage during that
time. An ideal rotation would
be something like four days on
and three or four weeks off, but
this can seldom be achieved
under Australian conditions.
It is of some interest that a
worker at the Grasslands Re-
search Station in England has
raised lambs practically worm-
free on pastures by a system of
rotational grazing, or, more
correctly perhaps, a system of
folding, in which the sheep were
moved to “clean” pasture every
three days. The clean pasture
had not been stocked for almost
a year.
There is no doubt that more
intensive methods will follow
the better management of
improved-pastures in Australia,
and the relationship between the
behavior of worm-parasites and
methods of management will
have to be studied.
For the present one cannot set
down any hard-and-fast rules.
A spell of three weeks is always
worth while —longer is better —
and it is worth having a spelled
paddock to receive sheep which
have been given a preventive
drench. In an outbreak it is
essential to move drenched sheep
to a spelled paddock to get the
full value of the drench.
Summing-up
The basic facts of worm-
infestation in sheep are that
every sheep is infested and that
contamination of pastures is con-
tinuous. These are on the nega-
tive side as far as control is
concerned. On the positive side,
the chief controlling influences
are development of resistance by
the sheep and the destruction of
eggs and larvae on pastures by
weather-conditions.
The lesson of the past wet
seasons is that worm-infestation
can become severe even in dis-
tricts not usually regarded as
wormy. Some hard-headed old
sheepmen find it difficult to
accept this fact. They say,. “But
my country isn’t wormy
country.” That is true, but their
sheep are wormy because it is a
wormy season.
The consequence of the wet
seasons may not yet have fully
appeared. In some similar years
in the past the serious losses
have come in the young sheep in
winter when the feed has dried-
off or otherwise deteriorated.
The lesson of the wet seasons
is to adopt a full programme of
parasite-control no'w and carry
it on for at least the next two
years, even if the seasons revert
to normal. The parasite-
potential is high and any relaxa-
tion of control may be
disastrous.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/5/'56)
In view of the present sunspot activity, an intensifica-
tion of rain may occur between May 27 and May 29, and
these effects may be felt most in the southern section of the
continent.
General rains are likely in most of the continent during
June, with reasonably good follow-on rains during July. The
July rains may be heaviest in the western division of
N.S.W. and in the southern mid-interior and south-west of
Queensland, and renewed l flooding is likely in these areas.
A good season seems assured throughout, although
heavy rains during the spring months are likely to lead to
widespread flooding in many areas of Victoria.
LENNOX WALKER.


MUNGADAL "BLOOD WILL TELL”
: i
Vl \ -11 H II MM
He
II
' s*
H
•' ' •:.
i? •■*
m
iilliilllilli!
MU -
-x•
«gii
HI
Typical Stud Ram bred at Mungadal
The Mungadal Sydney Sale Team will comprise:
3 MERINO STUD RAMS; 10 SPECIALLY SELECTED RAMS
anc/
5 MERINO SPECIAL STUD EWES
(These ewes will be exhibited at the Show as a pen of 5)
A/so for the first time
3 POLL MERINO STUD RAMS
ANTHONY HORDERN, MUNGADAL, HAY
Enquiries To; The Manager, Mungadal, Hay. Phone: Hay 74
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COUKT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH WILLIAM CRAWLEY late
of Balmain.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY YIDA CRAWLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 902 of 1956 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street 'Sydney by
the 3rd of August i 956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ix Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MIONE MINEHAN (formerly HIONE
BARTON a divorcee nee Lillington) late
of 30 Cameron Street EdgecKffe in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that FRANCIS JOHN MINEHAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3975 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you ,wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the third day of August
One thousand nine hundred and fifty six
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRUCE R. MILES, Solicitor,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN Til E SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM HENRY THOMSON of
69 Beach Road Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE
that FREEDA RAE THOMSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2780 of 1952
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd day of August 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. O. CURRIE, Solicitor,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
VVants
To buy Arnold Zweig’s Case of
Sergeant Grisha, Childe’s How Labor
Governs, Norman Lindsay’s Halfway
to Anywhere, any Francis Adams
items. —6326.
To buy Icy-Ball fridge—good price.
(The Icy-Ball refrigerator was
common 20 years ag0.)—6327. »
To buy Sons of Sindbad, by Alan
Villiers.—632B.
To buy Handy Hints for the Farm.
—6329.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Jessie Jarvis
and her daughter Gladys (married
name unknown), who came to Aus-
tralia several years ago to live with
Mrs. Jarvis’s brother-in-law, Tom
Burrows. (Write direct to Mrs.
Jarvis’s brother, Wm. Leonard Best,
5712£ S. Gramercy-place, Los
Angeles, C. 2, Cal., U.S.A.)
Information Supplied
From Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd.: As to
where N.S.W. can be found other
than in Australia,* Peter Heylyn’s
Cosmography of the World, pub-
lished in London in 170&, available
at Tyrrell’s Book Shop, 202 George-
street, Sydney, contains a map of
America showing N.S.W. on the
south-west bank of Hudson’s Bay.
From H. A. Fields: According to
the Everyman’s Literary and His-
torical Atlas of America (pre-war
edition), New South Wales comprised
what are now the provinces of
Ontario and Manitoba. These lands
were granted to the United Empire
Loyalists (from New York and New
England) after the cease-fire in 1783.
The name does not seem to have
stuck; a later map does not show it.
Information Sought
Name of a newspaper circulating in
Zamboanga ( Philippines ) suitable for
an advertising medium ?
The Philippines Embassy (Sydney)
has no list of newspapers published
in Zamboanga. Still, it reports that
all Manila newspapers circulate in
every part of the country, including
Zamboanga. Manila dailies include
the “Manila Times,” “Manila Daily
Bulletin,” “Philippines Herald,”
“Manila Chronicle” and “Evening
News.” Two popular weeklies
published in Manila with reputedly
wide circulations around Zamboanga
are the “Philippines Free Press” and
the “Kislap-Graphic.”
* * * *
What is the “pledge” which mem-
bers of the Australian Labor Party
must sign before endorsement for
Parliament ?
In 1891 the first pledge was moved,
in the N.S.W. branch of the party —
“That, in order to secure solidarity
of the Labor party, only those will
be allowed to assist at its private
deliberations who are pledged to
vote in the House as a majority of
the party sitting in caucus has deter-
mined. Therefore we, the
undersigned, in proof of our
determination to vote as a majority
of the party may agree on all
occasions considered of such impor-
tance as to necessitate a party
deliberation have thfcreunto affixed
our names.” (This was signed by
most Labor members then in the
N.S.W. Parliament; those who
opposed it left the party and thus
caused the first “split.”) In the next
year or two the pledge was modified
a couple of times, an 1895 conference
deciding on the wording still sub-
stantially in use—“l hereby pledge
myself not to oppose the selected
candidate of this or any other branch
of the Political Labor League [the
then name of the party], I also
pledge myself, if returned to Parlia-
ment, on all occasions to do my
utmost to ensure the carrying-out of
the principles embodied in the Labor
platform, and on all questions, and
especially those affecting the fate of
the Government, to vote as a
majority of the Labor party may
decide at a duly constituted caucus
meeting.”
* * * «■
(1) What amount is paid in N.Z.
as old-age pension? (2) Is there a
means-test in N.Z. ?
(1) The bqsic rates of age-benefit
payable under the provisions of the
Social Security Act, 1938, are: (a)
£195 p.a. in the case of an unmarried
(single, widowed, separated, divorced)
person; (b) £lB2 p.a. in the case of a
married applicant; (c) £364 p.a. in the
case of a married man whose depend-
ent wife is herself not qualified for
benefit. (2) In general, the basic bene-
fit is reducible by £1 for every com-
plete pound by which the annual
income of the applicant or the
applicant and his wife exceeds £7B a
year. The benefit may also, be re-
duced where the net value of an
applicant’s accumulated property
exceeds £5OO. The deduction would
be at the rate of £1 for each com-
plete £l5 of the excess property. The
value of an applicant’s home and
furniture, motor-car, interest in land
and interest in any annuity or policy
of life insurance is, however,
exempted.
* » * *
Information on tin* British murderer
Crippen ?
In 1909, Dr. Hawley Harvey
Crippen, a 48-year-old American
practising as a dentist in England,
became enamored of a woman who
had been his secretary, Ethel Le Neve,
Mrs. Crippen, a music-hall artiste
known professionally as Belle Elmore,
was last seen alive on Jan. 31, 1910;
Crippen then put over the story that
she had gone to America. Suspicions
being aroused, the police were called
in, and on July 9 Crippen and Le
Neve, who was then living with him,
hastily left England. As Mr. and
Master Robinson they travelled on
the Montrose from Antwerp to
Quebec. On July 13 a police-search
of Crippen’s home had uncovered the
remains of his wife buried beneath the
lloor of the cellar, and the captain
of the Montrose recognised his two
passengers from information circu-
lated by the police. He wirelessed
Scotland Yard, and Crippen was
arrested on the ship’s arrival in
Quebec. (This is accepted as the
first occasion on which wireless-
telegraphy was used to track-down a
criminal.) The trial of Crippen and
Le Neve began on Oct. 8, 1910, and
lasted five days; the woman was
acquitted and Crippen found guilty
(he had poisoned his wife with
hyoscin hydrobromide). He was
executed at Pentonville on Nov. 23,
1910.
Brief Answers
T.P.: The'film of Shaw’s “Major
Barbara” was produced in Britain in
1940 and released by Twentieth Cen-
tury Fox at Hoyts’ Century (Sydney)
on Sept. 5, 1941. The film starred
Wendy Hiller as Barbara, Rex Harri-
son (The Professor), and Robert
Morley <Undershaft), with Dame
Sybil Thorndike, Robert Newton,
Emlyn Williams and Deborah Kerr
in prominent supporting roles—
8.N.F.: (1) The Salvation Army
Harvest Thanksgiving Festivals in
Australia are held in late-February or
in March. This season of the year
provides the best opportunity for the
display of fruit and produce. Harvest
Festivals are always concluded before
Easter. (2) There would appear to be
only an obscure connection....
A.S.G.: (1) The Repatriation Act
provides for the payment of service-
pension to an ex-serviceman who
served overseas and who has reached
the age of 60. This pension is sub-
ject to the means-test, and its pro-
visions are similar to those applying
to age- and invalid-pensions. (2) For
income-tax concessions, write Taxa-
tion Department in your capital city.
W.K.B.: (1) All pars, printed are
paid for on submission of a written
claim. (2) A “Society” or “Abbrigin-
alities” par. begun with an initial-
letter and with the pen-name at the
end is simply an editorial choice of
contributions. (3) Yes, Alek Sass was
for a time in America, drawing for the
“Globe” and “New York World.”
(4) Don’t know, but surely it wouldn’t
be the same artist; the earlier fellow
would la a bit before our time. (5)
Afraid no one’s made it his business
to tell him, b'ut others feel the same as
you d 0... .F.C.8.: The address of
the Buddhist Society in Australia is
159 Oxford-street, Sydney. (Tele-
phone, FA6267.)... .W.L.D.". (1) The
capital of Greenland is Godthaab and
of Iceland Reykjavik. Kingston is
the capital of Norfolk Island. (2)
There is a British Legation at
Reykjavik; also a British Consular
Office at Akureyri and in the West-
mann Islands (all Icelandic territory).
In any such business concerning
Greenland, you would have to pro-
ceed through the British Embassy at
Copenhagen H.R.G.: (1) Articles
on Russian-comfrey which have
appeared this year on the “Man
on the Land” pages have been by
William F. Savage (B. 14/3/ ’56), by
L. Buchanan Ma/ and J. F. Leacock
(both B. 11/4/’56) and by Leacock
and Peter Gnuske (both B. 2/5/’56).
(2) Write J. F. Leacock, Director,
Glenfield Community Society,
Glenfield, N.S.W J.W.: A novel
on the Japanese Army in China (and
almost certainly the one to which you
refer) is Long the Imperial Way, by
Manama Tasaki, first published in
1951. Tasaki served as a private in
the Japanese Imperial Army in China,
hnd wrote his novel, based on his
own experiences, in English (the book
is not a translation) 1.5.: Write
Commonwealth Statistician, Com-
monwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, A.C.T.. .C.S.:
Kosciusko, the highest mountain in
Australia, is 7328 ft. high. Mt. Towns-
hend, near by, is 7266 ft
L.H.McC.: (1) The story appears
under the title “The Epic of the
Jervis Bay” in J. E. Macdonnell’s
Valiant Occasions. (2) Sorry, but we
couldn’t trace the poem from your
information. Do you recall its title?
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminated
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


Available from all booksellers
SIXTH OF JUNE
by Lionel Shapiro . . JBs. 9d.
A novel of love and war. To rival “H.M.S. Ulysses.” A first-rate
novel. Descriptions of fighting have never been bettered.
—Nancy Spain, London Daily Express,
Collins
Publishers
FOR THOUGHTFUL READERS---
HEAVEN AND HELL
by Aldous Huxley—a companion volume
to The Doors of Perception. The main
essay explores the new deeper spiritual
world of the mind which is brought on
by hypnosis or drugs; eight appendices
deal with diverse subjects which are
l'elevant to the main essay.
9/6 (post 7d.)
VICTOR HUGO
by Andre Maurois, translated by Gerard
Hopkins. This detailed biography of
one of France’s greatest poets contains
many previously unpublished texts and
explains the curious contradictions in
Victor Hugo’s work and character.
Illustrated. Book Society Non-Fiction
choice. 49/9 (post 1/7)
You’ll find these and all the books you want at . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth
Speed on Wafer
In Into the Water-Barrier (Odhams)
Alan W. Mitchell, ghosting for Donald
Campbell, has made a first-rate book
of Campbell’s world speed-record with
his jet-hydroplane Bluebird, of 202.32
miles-an-hour, July 23, 1955, at
Ullswater, Westmorland.
The book opens journalistically with
an account of the record run, and then
switches back to autobiography;
Campbell’s childhood with his famous
father. Sir Malcolm, who, among his
world-records on land and water, held
the less-known record as an insurance-
agent of selling the first indemnity to
newspapers against libel-actions.
Donald Campbell was with his
father at Salt Lake City in 1936 when
Sir Malcolm drove his last Bluebird
car at 301 miles-an-hour-the inside-
stoiy of this drive is extraordinarily
good; how they drove out every morn-
ing 120 miles from the city to the dry
salt-lake; how the police minded
young Donald and taught him pistol-
shooting at hoardings; how the tyres
had to be changed after every run, at
a cost of £6OO, and had an outer-
covering of rubber as thin as cigarette-
paper.
It was after passing 300 miles-an-
hour on land that Sir Malcolm turned
to speedboats, and, putting the Rolls-
Royce engine from his car into a
wooden one-step hydroplane, raised
the world water-speed record from
the American Gar Wood’s 124.86
miles-an-hour to 129.56 miles-an-hour
in 1937 at Lake Maggiore in Italy.
Young Donald was there again, haul-
ing a heavy railway-sleeper, which
had been mistaken for a twig, out of
the hydroplane’s path at the last
moment, when, with the old engine and
name and a new hull, his father made
his final record of 141.74 miles-an-
hour in August, 1939, at Lake
Coniston.
Donald Campbell was just being
inducted into the insurance-business
when war began. A previous attack of
rheumatic-fever kept him out of the
Air Force, but as a motor-cyclist he
filled the phony-war period with horror.
At one time, unable to counter wheel-
wobble, he fractured his skull in two
places and broke a finger, and a little
later ran into the tail of a Canadian
Army lorry, breaking a shoulder, an
arm and two ribs. He rounded out the
war on an airfields-defence device
which, he says, is still a State-secret,
and then in the office and factory of a
firm making armored-cars and Army
jerrycans; ending as a maintenance-
fitter on compressors, boilers and
turbines.
After the war he became partner in
a firm making woodworking machine-
tools; they prospered, and, stocking a
60ft. ex-Navy torpedo-recovery craft
with their goods, set out to sell them
in Portugal. Business was good in
Lisbon; but the boat blew-up in harbor
and all was lost. And in December,
1948, Sir Malcolm died.
Donald Campbell, although he
inherited “a few thousands” from his
grandfather through his father, was
prevented by some peculiarity of the
will from getting more than £lO-a-
-week from his father’s £lBO,OOO estate;
moreover, everything was to be
auctioned. So he bought his father’s
old Bluebird car at auction, also the
new Bluebird speedboat, which Sir
Malcolm had been fitting with a jet-
engine before he died.
Then, hearing that the American
“Liberty-ship” builder, Henry Kaiser,
was building a boat to take the world
speed-record, Donald set out to
improve his father’s record. De Havil-
lands were too busy to tune-up the
Goblin-jet; so Campbell decided to use
the R 37 Rolls-Royce engine that had
done 300 m.p.h. at Salt Lake. But
when he went to get the old propeller-
shaft, rudder, gearbox, etc., he found
they had been sold to a dealer with the
first Bluebird boat a year before his
father’s death for about £l5O. He got
them back—for £7so—and with his
father’s engineer, Leo Villa, he set out
to break records at Lake Coniston.
They were working against time and,
as someone told them, with “old iron.”
By 1950 the American Stanley Sayers
had pushed the water-speed record up
to 160.23 miles-an-hour; but the
account of their efforts with the old
boat and old engine is of great interest
—how they had to warm it up with a
set of “soft” sparkplugs, then change
to a set of 24 “hard” plugs for the
actual run; how they insisted, against
the laughter of the experts, that the
stern came out of the water at high
speed, and how they eventually worked
it out that the stern rose because of
the resistance of the propeller-shaft,
leaving only half the propeller in the
water, and giving the craft more speed
because of that; how they won the
Oltranza Cup at Lake Garda, and how,
back at Coniston, they hit something
which tore a 12ft.-square hole in the
hull and smashed the shaft-bearings
and a blade off the propeller.
In July, 1952, Stanley Sayers, in his
Slo Mo Shun 4, ran the record up to
178.497 miles-an-hour, and two
months later another American, John
Cobb, was killed on Loch Ness in a
jet-hydroplane travelling at an esti-
mated 200 miles-an-hour. The reason
for Cobb’s death gives its name to the
book: the “water-barrier” is reached at
from 200 to 250 miles-an-hour, and
causes “high-frequency pitching”:—
When John Cobb was killed his
jet Crusader was pitching at five
cycles a second—in other words, he
was bumped up and down eighteen-
inches five times per second while
travelling at around 200 miles an
hour. It was more than Crusader
could stand, and she disintegrated.
With this to think about, and his
old boat wrecked, Donald Campbell
sold his partnership in the woodwork-
ing-machinery firm and put all his
money—some £30,000 —into designing
and building a hydroplane that would
beat 200 miles-an-hour. The story up
to here has been good, but from here
on, although there is more expertise in
it than the man-in-the-street could take
in, it becomes enthralling—the story of
the building of a prototype; of some-
thing not done before; of „great firms
that were not interested; of friends who,
came across with cheques; of interviews
with half the foremost English
mechanical and constructive plants; of
experiments in university wind-tunnels
and scientific tests of models in tanks;
of a final concentration on the Beryl
jet-engine, and the decision to build a
hull to take it; of designers and
mechanics who gradually became part
of a team; of the christening of the
Bluebird-jet by Dorothy, Campbell’s
,New Zealand wife; of trial-runs in
which the new boat ran her head into
the water; of redesigning it, pulling out
tanks, having lead-weights cast over-
night to give experimental ballast; of
new trials, and the discovery that at
speed the spray from the front floats
rushed into the jet-engine and killed
it; of designing guards to throw off
the spray; of new trials; of the dis-
covery that although the jet-engine
dispensed with such problems as
torque, or twist induced by the pro-
peller-shaft at high speeds, the terrific
spin of the turbine and compressor had
the effect of a gyroscope and needed to
be calculated on sudden turns; of
acceleration from five miles-an-hour t
150 miles-an-hour in 400yds.—th
piston-driven Bluebird needed half-a
Imile to do that—which is “startling to
the pilot at first,” and brought him
once within 6ft. of wreck on a shore
he had thought, by previous standards
miles away. And so on to the record-
run described in the first chapter.
There are many pictures of Sir
Malcolm and of various Bluebirds, land
and water; and in a concluding chapter
Donald Campbell sums-up some of
the problems of high-speed on water;
‘drag,” for instance, and the angle of
planes (they still have no scientific
ormula for this); and he suggests that
i scaled-up Bluebird, with two tor-
pedoes in each float, diesel-engines to
:ruise with at 15 knots, and jet-engines
o drive it at 100 knots, might be useful
to the Navy.
The Great Temptation: Hans Kades
(Angus and Robertson). Tension is
kept at a high pitch in this moving
story of a medical-man and his work
in a German hospital shortly after the
war. Richard Gerbrand. a gifted
student who has had surgical experience
as a p.-0.-w. in Russia, succumbs to the
temptation to accept a position as a
doctor before he is fully qualified. The
suspense of this situation is heightened
by the drama of hospital-life which is
its background. Operations and treat-
ment are precisely described and so
finely related to human values that
technical terms are but little trouble
to the non-medical reader. There is
also the conflict between the student-
doctor’s sense of dedication to his work
and the pull of expediency.
ON THE BEACH
One ripe cloud, a golden pear
Hangs upon the sky’s still tree,
And ocean, crystal, immaculate,
That under moon or under sun
Receives the fruit, takes back in rain
The shifting snow, the gold, the grey,
Bruised with shadow, brooding in sorrow,
Smooths the sand in a smother of sighs.
Crowding wave-fall, rearing arc,
Show me under your turning spray
Shells and fish and weed and pearl,
The fecund, teeming, raging life
In blue or green, or underneath
In last, inverted night your stars,
The brilliant, wheeling comet-fish
And lumbering planets of the deep.
Show me life that roars beneath
The tranquil heaving of your waves
Under a windless autumn sky
For time hangs heavy on his hands
And grief hangs heavy on his mind
Who longs to give and make, yet goes
Somnambulistic up and down
The untouched, irreproachable sand.
The poet sleeps—but he will wake
And know beneath the ordered round
The fiery forces of his life,
His birth, his destiny, his death,
That rage, aspire and, falling, burst
Into astounding fires of song:
Meantime, be patient, go in peace
Blessed-by the sun, the sand, the sea.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 384
Across
I—A smallish number give an order
to tear Jolson apart. (7)
4—One way of disposing of some-
thing like a suction without its
initial bridge. (7)
8 Papal envoys who make capable
entrances. (9)
10—A common breakfast with salt
for the girl whose name provided
Schumann with a five-note theme
for variations. (5)
11 The ruler of the meadow is
oozing out. (7)
12 Very stylish and clever convey-
ances are back. (5)
13 Horseless east in the minority.
(6)
15 Stooping actor who formulated
the principle of utility. (7)
1' The four becomes the cat’s coat
by the same deduction by which
m coat bec omes the cat. (3)
•71 p ' ress f° r eight-footers. (7)
-2 A Roman church cannot exist
without this Asian. (6)
27 — Boredom. (5)
28— Girl imitates dog boards. (7)
29 Danger by the Italian. (5)
30— The great unwashed call to a
parrot and a duck and the first
person. (3-6)
31 — Joins up letter tabulations. (7)
32 — Grant opponent’s methods are
deficiencies. (7)
Down
1 — Accommodating pink fish. (8)
2 Crook place to live in. (7)
3 Prearranging a fight result in the
sailer’s ropes and spars. (7)
4 Like a relative helper. (8)
5 Shellfish insect is calling aloud.
(7)
6 I retain improper powerlessness.
(7)
7 Horse turned up early in an
Indian city. (6)
9—Touches. (4)
14— Moslem with the Italian heart.
(3)
15— Turned under a conveyance. (3)
16— North isn’t a female layer. (3)
17— -Shipping charges for dropping its
middle figures. (8)
18 — Chases apparel for horseless 7-
down. (8)
20 — There’s a Blue- Mountains
resort in the middle of the lung
coverings. (7)
21— Hangs out 500 fishes. (7)
23 —A medical graduate got out of
bed when changing a sombre boy.
24 — Business list of names on a floral
envelope’s feature. (7)
25 — Color clothing taken from 18-
down, with the plethora deserted
by a girl. (6)
26 By one fairy like lolanthe. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 383


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
BATTERIES
v*>.-
i m
>v/U
W 0
I
5It.•::••
ijl .•i;*/;'.’f.\v<
■
.•:? ?......
... | ftigS
~ - ... !S«9sj
:#Vr
V ‘
.1 " i‘
1 ; as t® m 9
-„ ViA ,j's u w - , 1 ,* X
‘i , ' 11 xj
.u , t .L,i .. :i; * ; jT
.< > {.l
i
tfc/Wr
jF,f;■ :•••.::! j •' -.; j. ’.
«;< -■■ , \ .
• X-
sti
isss:!
' A : . K. Sii
5 ,:: , ;i I;-:
ggl
FO:;- , '• Vi-A
- ivl^'l
I ' i ;•. Bt .* <(i
Mill
g; : f,
WMI
ill If ' | if
wmkm
:gp
.i? : : :•••;:
«i •: '■ r j
* r
lllfigiiliiiiii
■US!
US
SS:SS3f«I%!®«ES
' 1 : $
“f •* .....*m'' '*« *' f.• * l l - M
;• • . WftWig ;5?
MwjMm
• 1 ' -!' %' 1 1 *|
‘ij.! 'is.
1 i » 1 Hj§ ■
iiP&Wr
$ i ,j|
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTONt
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
