

e
e
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
“THE AMPHIBIOUS MATTRESS — PAGE 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3978
Wednesday, May 9, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
PORTSMOUTH' OLDEST CHURCH,
THE CATHEDRAL OF
ST. THOMAS A'BECKET.
PORTSMOUTH, the largest city on the
south coast of England, with a popu-
lation of over 200,000, is England’s chief
naval station. Its recorded history dates
back, to a.d. 501, when a band of Saxons
landed there, defeated the Britons and
took possession of the adjacent country.
It was from Portsmouth that the first
British fleet, fitted out by Alfred the
Great, set sail. A small fleet, under the
command of King Harold, cruised
around the Solent in an unsuccessful
attempt to prevent the Norman invasion,
and, a short time later, in the 11th
century, William the Conqueror embarked
from Portsmouth to visit Normandy.
A close association with the Navy has
always been maintained, but it was not
until 1194, during the reign of Richard I,
that the town received its first charter.
The first dry-dock in the world was built
there in 1495, and it was first entered by
the Sovereign, a ship of 600 tons. It
required the efforts of over 150 men and
a day and a night to complete the
manoeuvre.
Portsmouth became a Royal Naval
Dockyard in 1540, during the reign of
Henry VIII. It has known in its time
many distinguished persons, including all
famous English sailors, chief among
whom was Lord Nelson, the hero of
Trafalgar. Portsmouth was his home
base, and it was natural, therefore, that
his flagship, H.M.S. Victory, should find
her last resting-place in the dockyard,
where she rests in all her glory and can
be seen by visitors.
One of the outstanding features of
Portsmouth is the Cathedral Church of
St. Thomas a’Becket, illustrated here,
which is the oldest surviving church in
the city. For nearly 750 years it was the
parish church of Portsmouth. It was
built in 1180, only ten years after the
Saint’s death at Canterbury. The nave
was severely damaged during the Civil
War, and in 1691 it was partly rebuilt
with a tower at the west end. During the
heavy air raids on Portsmouth in the
Second World War it was again damaged,
but it has now been restored and enlarged
with stone provided by almost every
country in the Commonwealth. In the
18th century a lookout was posted in the
cupola under the great weather vane to
signal ships into the harbour.
No. 291: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to otn*
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u
cessful.
The Red Page
Two Poems
THE FOREST
When first 1 knew this forest
its flowers were strange;
their different forms and faces
changed with the season’s change
white violets smudged with purple,
the wild-ginger spray,
ground-orchids small and single,
haunted my day;
the thiek-fleshed Murray-lily,
flame-tree’s bright blood,
and where the creek runs shallow
the cunjevoi’s green hood.
When first 1 knew this forest
time was to spend,
and time’s renewing harvest
could never reach an end.
Now that its vines and flowers
are named and known,
like long-fulfilled desires
those first strange joys are gone;
my search is further.
There’s still to name and know
beyond the flowers I gather
that one that does not wither—
the truth from which they grow.
THE BARGAIN
Some queer unshaped uncolored animal,
much like a moment’s pause of smoke or
mist,
was yet so made that nothing less
than this hard perfect shape involving it
would do to speak its meaning in the
world.
Out of its birth it came with this.
The smallest spiral holds the history
of something tiny in a sea of size
that carried on its obstinate gathering
till the years swelled in it to one last
perfect
ballooning curve of color laid by color;
and all implicit in its hold on time.
Say that the thing was slave to its own
meaning »
and the unconscious labor of its body.
The terms were these, that it could never
guess
how it conspired with time to shroud
itself;
a splendid action common to its kind,
but never known in doing.
Not even the end of making gave the
meaning;
the thing it made was its own self, en-
closed it
and was the prison that prevented sight.
But though death strands . its emptied
spiral,
that sweet completion puts a term to time,
and that, I take it, was the bargain.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Shaw and Smollett
It is perhaps not altogether a tribute
to Smollett’s art as a novelist that one
of the chief points of interest in re-
reading his Peregrine Pickle, newly
reprinted in the invaluable Everyman’s
Library, should be to see how in the.
course of that long, rambling, episodic
satire he provided G. B. Shaw with the
complete plot of “Pygmalion.”
Perhaps that is only a temporary
interest, for however skilfully and
amusingly the playwright dramatised
the situation, the passage happens also
to represent Smollett at his best, or near
it, and must have lasting value in its
own right. But at any rate it remains
fascinating to come upon the borrowing
and see how fully, both in detail and
general structure, the action of the play
was mapped in the novel.
The introductory mechanism is, of
course, different. Peregrine picks up
his beggar-girl not because he is a
scientist interested in dialects but be-
cause he has been jilted, for the
umpteenth time, by his faintly-beloved
Emilia and has decided to console him-
self “in the possession of the first
willing wench he should meet upon the
road. And there is, too, a departure
in the little scene where Thomas Pipes,
Peregrine’s servant, is ordered to escort
the wench to his master’s home and,
when she is jogging behind him on the
horse with her arms about his waist,
“found it almost impossible to with-
the temptation of making love”
jpisode which, in substance, Shaw
have done well to work-in if he
but which shows, in fact, an
vitality, springing from a frank
acceptance of sex, which Shaw could
never match: —
Neverthless, he wrestled with these
rebellious suggestions with all the
reason that Heaven had enabled him
to exert; and that being totally
overcome, his victorious passion sud-
denly broke out in this address:
“’S blood! I believe my master thinks
I have no more stuff in my body
than a dried haddock, to turn me
adrift in the dark with such a
spanker. D’ye think he don’t, my
dear?” To this question his fellow-
traveller replied, “Spanker anan!”
And the lover his suit, say-
ing, “Oons! how you tickle my
timber! Something shoots from your
arm, through my stowage, to the
very keelstone. Han’t you got
quicksilver in your hand?” “Quick-
silver!” said the lady, “d——n the
silver that has crossed my hand this
month. D’ye think, if I had silver
I shouldn’t buy me a smock?” “Ad-
sooks! you baggage,”, cried the lover,
“you shouldn’t want a smock nor a
petticoat neither, if you could have a
kindness for a true-hearted sailor, as
sound and strong as a nine-inch
cable, that would” keep all clear
above-board and everything snug
under the hatches.” “Curse your
gum!” said the charmer . . .
But thereafter practically everything
in Shaw is Smollett’s: the wench, curs-
ing violently, bathed by Pipes and
scratching his face in protest; Pipes
dressing her in new clothes before pre-
senting her to his master; Peregrine
deciding that it was only the “form of
education” which made the difference
between a beggar-girl and a lady and
determining “to take the young mendi-
cant under his tutorage and instruc-
tions”; his remarkable success in this
plan, hampered only by one obstacle,
the girl’s “inveterate habit of swear-
ing, which had been indulged in from
her infancy”; his teaching her, for use
in polite conversation, when she
wouldn’t know anything else to say,
“choice sentences from Shakspeare,
Otway and Pope,” with fragments of
opera-tunes to be hummed when words
failed; his triumphant introduction of
her to society at parties and dances;
and the ultimate disaster when, catch-
ing a lady cheating at cards—and once
more expressing herself considerably
more vigorously than the heroine in
Shaw—she
taxed her roundly with the fraud and
brought upon herself such a torrent
of sarcastic reproof, as overbore all
her maxims of caution, and burst
open the floodgates of her own
natural repartee, twanged off with the
appellation of b and w— —,
which she repeated with great
vehemence and
Perhaps her final gesture should be left
for readers of Smollett.
In this, as in so many other episodes,
Smollett’s bother was that, having set
up a delightful situation, he really
didn’t know what to do with it, how to
develop it in the general pattern of his
picaresque—which, as Walter Allen
points out in his preface to the Every-
man edition (noting also the borrow-
ing by Shaw) really had no pattern at
all: it was “one long improvisation.”
The beggar-girl is of no real signifi-
cance in Peregrine’s career. But at
least Smollett managed to round-off the
episode rather more plausibly than
Shaw did. In that thoroughly undemo-
cratic world of the 18th century, where
money married Inoney and the classes
did not mix, there was never any possi-
bility—as, to Shaw’s annoyance,
seemed to be demanded in the
“Pygmalion” situation—that the “pro-
tector” should marry his beggar-girl:
she elopes very happily with his
valet.
Faulty though “Peregrine Pickle” is
—too senselessly cruel and coarse in
its practical jokes; often too flat; too
uncertain in direction; too unscrupu-
lous altogether in its interpolation of
the prolonged “memoirs of a lady of
quality,” the “true confession” which
Smollett probably did not write and
was paid to include—it would be a pity
to leave the book without adding due
tribute to its one supreme creation who
demonstrates to the full that vitality
shown lightly in the beggar-girl
episode: old Hawser Trunnion, who,
for all his seafaring background, is as
rich and ripe a bit of rude English
earth as Falstaff, Squire Western or
Thackeray’s magnificent Pitt Crawley.
New Tennessee Williams
Tennessee Williams’s Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof (Seeker and Warburg), which
won both the Pulitzer Prize and the
drama-critics’ award as. the best
American play of 1944-45, is a rip-
roarin’, rootin’, tootin’ drama of sex,
drunkenness, perversion, psycho-
analysis, disease, death and family-
feuding which, with the additional,
traditional enhancement of a setting in
the deep South, is guaranteed to fill
the theatregoer to the brim, if not to
overflowing, with the ingredients of a
popular success.
The sex, though sizzling everywhere,
is chiefly in “Maggie the Cat,” a wife
so determined to renew tender relations
with her husband.that she woos him
with unmistakable frankness, at the top
of her voice, throughout the play-
providing considerable entertainment
for her sneaking in-laws who listen-in
every night from the next room—and
in the final curtain, which falls only
just in time, surges triumphantly over
all such minor obstacles as the
snoopers, her husband’s broken ankle
and the simultaneous .death-agonies,
from cancer, of her father-in-law.
The drunkenness, perversion and
psychoanalysis are all conveniently
located in the husband, Brick: a
strangely intellectual TV sports-
announcer who thought he had taken
to drink out of normal marital jealousy
because Maggie had sinned with his
best friend, but who is led to believe
that his friendship was a kind of
sublimated homosexuality —making it
more necessary than ever to continue
drinking. The disease and death are
provided by Brick’s father, a robust old
plantation-owner who discovers, in
some scenes of considerable tenseness,
that he is to die of cancer; and the
feuding comes from Brick’s priggish
brother and strident sister-in-law, who
are after the old man’s money. One
other character who should be men-
tioned is Brick’s plump mother, known
as Big Mama, who contributes a fair
share of the sex, some genuine comedy
and pathos, and a great deal more
noise than anyone else.
Everybody in the play quarrels
incessantly and loudly; everybody,
except Brick, who just drinks, is mad
about sex and money; everybody,
except in strange moments of aberra-
tion when they all talk like students of
psychoanalysis, shouts the most sur-
prising things in the raciest possible
language. It resembles nothing so
much as a big jazz-band with everybody
banging and blaring and tootling and
howling a different tune as hard as he
can go. Wherefore, though it may not
be great art, undeniably it has vigor.
A Canadian Painter
We hear so little in Australia of the
progress of the arts in the other
Dominions—-which, allowing for local
differences, will always run parallel to
our own —that John A. B. McLeish’s
September Gale (Dent), a study of
Arthur Lismer of the Group of Seven,
should be of exceptional interest.
Lismer has had, moreover, some
direct contacts with this part of the
world. He was in New Zealand in
1937 looking for the famous Pink-and-
White Terraces, not knowing that they
had been destroyed in the Tarawera
eruption; and in the same year he
visited Australia for a New Education
conference. Comparing the two coun-
tries, he made the familiar observation
that “New Zealand doesn’t like Ameri-
cans, but the Australians do,” and also
said, surprisingly, “The Australians
always travel on hills, the New
Zealanders in valleys.”
He found nothing he wanted to paint
on the mainland here, but fell in love
with Tasmania: —
Lismer called it “the delectable
land.” He was particularly drawn
to Hobart, and to the superbly
pastoral scenery of the Derwent
River. “It is a verdant land,”
Lismer noted in his brief journal
comments, “and they have left it
that way —just punctuated it with
their dwellings.” And again (the
highest tribute): “They tell me a
famous poet has written nobly about
this island. And no wonder. The
country is too beautiful to paint.”
In his art, Lismer seems to have
accomplished in his own person what,
broadly speaking, it took two genera-
tions of painters to do in Australia: for
his early paintings, like Gruner’s, show
the influence of Monet and Sisley while
the later works, broad, bold, massive
and possibly more coarse in technique,
derive, like most contemporary Aus-
tralian landscapes, from Van Gogh and
Cezanne. Rather than attempt to assess
them from the reproductions in this
book, one prefers to quote Dr. Mc-
Leish: for obviously they are highly
valued in their own country both for
their intrinsic qualities and for their
significance in making Canadian art
more “Canadian”: —
But with the next large group of
paintings and sketches, dated from
1920 on, the observer could feel at
last as though the curtains had really
parted on the exhibition and that
the artist’s capacity was revealed in
its full strength and maturity. Here
were the splendid Georgian Bay and
Algoma paintings of the vivid years
of the Group of Seven association:
first, the lyricism of “Rock, Pine and
Sunlight,” that joyous reminiscence
of Lismer’s early sojourn at Go
Home Bay—the massive but unfor-
bidding formation of the rocky
shoreline radiantly counterpointed
by the play of sunlight on water and
bracken, the entire effect one of
sparkling air and of uplifting lights
and summer shadows ; then the noble
lines of “September Gale.” As
always at the Lismer exhibitions, the
visitor would find himself one of a
knot of spectators who were slow 1o
move on—fascinated for perhaps the
tenth or twentieth time by the
Shelleyesque freedom of the paint-
ing: the wild west wind of the
Canadian northland carrying every-
thing before it —trees, shore-grass
and waves —in a great allegro mood,
tempered in its exultant feeling by
the darker melody of the onrushing
clouds and the warm but sombre
autumn colors of the whole study.
Born in Sheffield, England, Lismer
emigrated to Canada as a young man
in 1911. The Group of Seven, with
which he has chiefly been associated,
held its first exhibition in 1920, and,
being the first notable outbreak of
specifically “Canadian” painting,
roughly corresponds to the earlier
Heidelberg-school in Australia. Now
at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts
and active in the fostering of child-
art in the schools, Lismer has been, like
Julian Ashton, of basic importance to
his country’s art as a teacher as well as
a painter.
Two Novels
The Ambassador’s Wife: Philip
Gibbs (Hutchinson). Supposed to be
a tense spy-story about peace-negotia-
tions just before the death of Stalin,
but the only tense thing about it is a
Russian First Secretary in London
called (of all coincidences!) Vladimir
Petrov, whose visits cause the Ambas-
sador’s wife to tremble and grow pale.
She is a Russian spy who has been con-
verted to the British way-of-life by
croquet and fresh strawberries. This
very naive story is redeemed somewhat
for a reviewer by the kindly attitude it
takes towards newspapermen. The
Ambassador finds them “jolly decent
fellows on the whole,” and his house-
keeper describes them as “very * nice-
spoken.” But since Gibbs himself has
been a newspaperman all his life the
tribute is not, alas, wholly impartial.
The Scotswoman: Inglis Fletcher
(Hutchinson). This long, staid novel
tells of the later years of Flora Mac-
donald, heroine of “the ’45” and savior
of Bonnie Prince Charlie. She migrated
to North Carolina with her family 30
years after the rebellion and there
became involved in struggles between
the American rebels and loyalists. There
are many exciting incidents in the story,
but the excitement does not communi-
cate itself to the reader, nor even to the
characters. On the voyage from Skye
to America, for instance, there are a
pirate-raid, several deaths, a duel,
murder and kidnappings, yet shortly
after these the captain allowed the
sailors to hold an initiation-ceremony
on entering tropic waters as “It seemed
wise to encourage anything that could
relieve the tedium of the voyage” . • *


/*
i hks
'
-
Mi*
£
SE=U
PH
•■' •'•':
-;••• -.r -•• -<-K-
-*ja
■r
ID
;-V : ; I> j •;:
HP
;■: ~:
g®**
317 318 319
■B
308 307
Jj
E 2
.
O
w
111 111 Oil
Design and build your own furniture with
NEW EASYBUILT
Here’s Furniture that will grace the most modern home. Made of kiln-dried New Zealand
Radiata Fine, each unit is designed by experts and produced by experienced craftsmen.
Equally suitable for painting and polishing, its natural light colour and lustre
produce a wonderful beauty when stained. Moreover, because you can buy this furniture
in kit sets, piece by piece, or even leg by leg, and in widths 14|- inches and
20 inches, ready for home assembly, you can make your own designs to solve any
space or storage problem. Assembling the units, which are all pre-cut
and marked is simple. Screws and nails are supplied and the only tools required are screw
driver, hammer and a pail punch. Available on Our Very Easy Terms.
'TRUTH !N ADVERT)SINC
nthony Horde
ILLUSTRATED BELOW ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE ALMOST ENDLESS
VARIETY OF FURNITURE COMBINATIONS WHICH CAN BE ACHIEVED
WITH 'EASYBUILT'. DEMONSTRATED IN TOOL DEPT. TO-MORROW.
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street Level - *
320
321
32 2
.41
323
324
3 2 5
2 31
2 30
235
236
237
238
3)8
3 27
330
339
331
334
337
Optical
Service
Offers a thor*
ough service to
those doubtful
over the condi-
tion of their eyes.
You are invited
to avail yourself
of our lay-by
service. It’s a
wonderful help
when it’s some-
thing you want
later. Just a
small deposit of
4/- in the £ se-
cures the goods
being offered.
We’ll reserve
what you want
(except furni-
ture). Lay-By,
Second Floor.
Here is one of
the most appre-
ciated services.
Our famous
Clothing Hos-
pital does re-
pairs, invisible,
mending, alter-
ations, re - fit-
ting, re - lining,
etc., for your
clothes. Moder-
a t e charges.
Also, we have a
service where
leather coats
and jackets are
re - conditioned.
Ground Floor,
George Street.
POSTAL ADDRESS IS BOX 2 7 12, G. P. 0.. SYDNEY. TELEPHONE T. O. P. S.. 8095 I


the Bulletin
VoL 77—No. 3978
Wednesday, May 9, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
HIGHER TAXES—ON WHAT?
IT seems to be accepted in some quarters
that there will be a rise in income-tax rates
in the next Budget. The “eight economists’ plan”
which preceded the Federal Government’s “little
Budget” recommended an increase, but its advice on
this point was not taken, although most of its other
recommendations were paralleled in the Prime
Minister’s economic measures. There have been
suggestions that the Government moved warily in
this matter and softened the coming blow to the
general taxpayer by slugging the companies first.
The Opposition, while attacking the taxes which
have been imposed—particularly the increased
excise on cigarettes and beer, which, judging by
the speeches of “Labor” M.P.s, are regarded by
them as the staple diet of the workers—don’t deny
that they want to see taxes increased.
They don’t go as far as suggesting all-round
rises in income-tax, and so long as they remain in
Opposition they never will; “Labor’s” financial
policy aims at buying votes, not losing them. But
from Dr. Evatt downwards they will speak by the
hour of the necessity for an excess-profits tax.
There’s a good, honest vote-catching ring about the
term “excess-profits tax.” It conjures up a picture
of a kind-hearted, strictly legal, democratically
elected Government of Robin Hoods taking from
the rich to give to the poor. And the average tax-
payer and elector has a tendency to number himself
among the poor when this question is being
considered. When the tax-collector comes around
no man is rich.
It is an idea almost universally held that taxes
should be paid by someone else, and it is to
“Labor’s” shame that it encourages its followers to
believe that all taxation needs can be met by
slugging the high-income groups and wealthy com-
panies and that the wage-earners have only to vote
it into power and the country’s financial problems
will be solved without any contribution on their
part.
If a community demands—as the Australian
community does at present —a high level of social
services, it can only secure them by earning them
and paying for them. Mr. Chifley, whose name
the present-day “Labor” leaders are constantly
invoking on matters of finance, told his party this
not long before he died, but most of his followers
seem to have forgotten it. And if a community
wishes to carry-out vast developmental works —as
our community does —it can do so, in the absence
of substantial loans from abroad, only by increasing
its production or by cutting-down its consumption
of consumer-goods. In the long term increased
production is the real answer, but a crisis has no
patience, and in an emergency a reduction in
consumption must somehow or other be achieved.
This is the conclusion which led the Govern-
ment to produce its “little Budget.” The increases
in petrol-tax and sales-tax were frankly intended to
curtail spending; the extra tax on companies was
meant to “impose a check upon investment-spend-
ing.” The anti-inflationary influence of the beer-
and-tobacco taxes was. expected to be secondary
only; the primary intention was to raise revenue.
Speaking in Brisbane last week, the Prime
Minister claimed that the measures introduced in
March were keeping inflation in hand, and that but
for them it would have got out of hand in the next
12 months. He didn’t mention the prospect of
further increases, but that is not surprising, as he
was speaking at a Queensland election-meeting.
In Canberra, however, Professor Swan, one of
the “eight economists,” did. Addressing a conven-
tion of electrical manufacturers, he went a little
further than Menzies on the effect of the “little
Budget.” Without it, he said, the Australian
economy could have become like those of some
of the South American republics. The measures
taken had as their objective the stabilisation of the
economy, and they had staved-off the threat of
another period of inflation. However, further steps
might be necessary, and he felt that a complete
review of the taxation-system was needed in order
to create greater incentive for personal saving. He
didn’t go into details, but a short time ago one of
his Melbourne confreres, in making a similar
criticism of the taxation-system, suggested changing
its basis completely. His plan was that instead of
taxing incomes the Government should tax spend-
ing, and his argument was that this would place a
premium upon thrift and thus help to provide the
savings necessary for development. On Thursday,
Wentworth, M.P., speaking in the House of Repre-
sentatives, also proposed changing the basis of
taxation to encourage thrift.
Drastic changes such as these proposals envisage
aren’t practicable at short notice, and can’t be
considered as a likely feature of the next Budget,
but the proposals are worth serious examina-
tion. If our financial difficulties are caused
by our spending too much, then it seems logical to
do something to curb the spending. But it is
important that the steps taken do not discourage
production or the whole purpose of the move will
be defeated. Higher income-tax is definitely recog-
nised as being disincentive to production —the
catch-cry “Why work overtime for Fadden?” is
widely known. Although there is much to be said
against sales-tax (which is a tax on spending), an
increase in rates in that field would probably be less
harmful to production than a rise in income-tax.
From the individual viewpoint the one is merely
another price-rise; the other means a definite drop
in the take-home pay. Further, the individual can
choose whether he pays the extra price (and tax), or
goes without, or postpones buying the article.
Income-tax gives him no choice.
Spending is neither a crime nor a vice. It is a
perfectly natural and normal activity. For that
reason it is not much use asking people to refrain
from spending. Yet if it is obvious that spending
must be temporarily curtailed, something has to be
done. Reducing spending-power is the theoretical
term, but in practice it is someone’s spending that
has to be reduced. Unchecked, inflation will do
the job thoroughly, but with disastrous results.
Taxation cannot achieve the task painlessly, but
those who impose it should aim at making it hurt
as little as possible. For that reason higher sales-
tax might be the answer.
The “Labor” party is in the habit of protest-
ing that sales-tax falls most heavily on the low-
income groups. But does it? Food, clothing and
most of the necessities of life are exempt from the
tax. The goods included in the higher categories
are not those bought by people on or near the basic
wage, and most of those in the intermediate classifi-
cation are amenities rather than essential goods.
But the truth, which again “Labor” refuses to
tell its followers, is that taxation must affect the
whole community in some degree. There is no
escaping this for long. If consumer-spending is to
be reduced, the low-income groups must share the
reduction for the simple reason that they are by
reason of their numbers responsible for the bulk
of consumption-expenditure. Higher taxes on the
tall poppies would not reduce this expenditure; it
would be more likely to reduce the volume of
saving, which is the very thing it is necessary to
avoid.
Not So Block
THE eighth annual report of the Joint Coal
Board, covering the year ended June 30, 1955,
does not support the pessimistic view advanced by
some interests that coal is doomed, or the equally
despairing one that the industry can be “saved”
only by Government assistance, either by
nationalisation or by restrictions on the use of
fuels which compete with it. The board takes the
sober attitude that although some markets have
been lost and others have not expanded as much as
had been hoped, the New South Wales coalfields
have an assured future with, at the worst, a slight
fall in numbers employed, but no more so than
can be accounted for by the ordinary wastage each
year.
Of the period under review the board was able
to report that the industry had had another good
year, in which productivity and coal-quality had
improved, miners had received increased wages and
prices had been slightly reduced. Although some
mines had been closed-down, most of the men
displaced had been re-employed at other mines,
and some sections of the industry were short of
men.
Production of coal on the N. S. Wales fields
in 1954-55 totalled 14,599,000 tons. This was
327,000 tons lower than in the previous year, but
most of the drop could be accounted for by dislo-
cation of transport through severe floods. Under-
ground production was 13,498,000 tons, a record
figure; opencut production, as a result of a deliber-
ate policy of reduction, was down on the previous
year —the intention is to stabilise it at around a
million tons a year.
As to marketing, the industry has now become
almost entirely dependent on customers within New
South Wales. Inter-State sales fell by 24,000 tons
during the year (making a total drop of 278,000 tons
since 1950-51) and overseas sales by 109,000‘tons,
largely accounted for by the expiry of contracts for
Korea.
During the year there was a decline of 793 in
the number of men employed in the industry, but
the total at work at the end of the period was
19,417, which is only 900 below the record figure
in 1952; 2000 above the number employed in 1947
and 3000 above the average of the past 25 years.
With the prospect of worked-out and inefficient pits
being closed a re-employment committee was formed
in Newcastle in June, 1954, to facilitate the transfer
of miners from one mine to another. The average
number of men registered for employment during
the year was only 29, and throughout the year there
were more than 200 unfilled vacancies in South
Coast mines.
Losses of coal through industrial disputes were
higher than in the previous year, but considerably
lower than the average for the post-war period. In
comparison with other industries, however, the
record was poor. “During the five years 1950-54,
which was a good industrial period for the coal-
mining-industry, 42 per cent, of all man-days lost
in N.S.W. through industrial disputes have been
lost by the 2 per cent, of employees who work in
the coalmining-industry.”
Disappointing results were reported from the
trade delegation which went to the Far East in
1954 to examine the prospects of increasing coal-
exports to that area. The committee reported that
there seemed little likelihood of permanent markets
in the Far East for steam-coal and that any- expan-
sion must come from coals with special qualities,
such as those used for producing gas or coke. Since
the close of the period covered by the report a
trial shipment of 9000 tons of coking-coal has been
shipped to Japan. There is also a possibility of a
market for gas-coal in Hong Kong and Singapore,
but the only firm market for the industry at present
outside Australia is in New Caledonia and near-by
islands, which take about 190,000 tons a year.
On the score of quality of coal and efficiency
of working—two factors vital to the future of the
industry —the report is encouraging. The average
ash-content of coal mined has progressively
decreased over the past four years, due partly to
the closing of pits producing high-ash coal. In
addition to this improvement at the source, the
installation of washeries has raised the standard of
deliveries. In 1952 only 2 per cent, of coal was
washed at the mines; in 1954-55 the figure was 10.6
per cent. Close on £1 million has been spent on
washing-plants in the last two years.
The degree of mechanisation increased during
the year, and with it the output per manshift. In
1952-53 fully-mechanised mines produced 30.8 per
cent, of total production; in 1954-55 they were
responsible for 40.1 per cent. Over the two-year
period output per man per year rose from 982 tons
to 1161 tons in mechanised pits and from 580 tons
to 710 tons in the whole industry. This made
possible a price-reduction of 3s. 9d. a ton, despite
an increase in wage-rates, at a time when the prices
of most other commodities were going up.
Mechanical-extraction of pillar-coal—after a
dispute lasting 13 years—was recommenced on
September 20, 1954, and at the end of June last
14 collieries were operating machines on pillars.
The report comments that it is too early to pro-
nounce judgment on the efficiency of the operations,
but
it is clear that mechanical extraction of pillars will
give mining-engineers much greater flexibility in
the planning and organisation of their operations.
It will make available substantial reserves of coal
which might not otherwise have been mined. It
will eventually lower costs and assist the industry
/ to meet the competition of other fuels.
A basic problem of the coal-industry which the
Joint Coal Board has tackled in a realistic manner
is that of “dust” and its effect on health and
efficiency. On the treatment side it has established
its own medical service, with regular examinations
for every man in the industry, and it has also taken
over responsibility for workers’-compensation
insurance. More important in the long view are
the steps taken for prevention and suppression of
dust. When the board was established in 1947
water was reticulated to the coal-face in only a
small proportion of mines, and dust-suppression
was regarded as satisfactory in only 6.3 per cent,
of cases. By the end of June last year water was
laid-on at almost every face and the dust-suppres-
sion ratio was 99.2 per cent. In addition to this
attack at the source, research into the causes of
pneumoconiosis is being conducted in conjunction
with the University of Sydney and experimental
clinics.
In considering the future prospects of the
industry, the board says it is difficult to assess the
market for 1956, but it will “probably be about
15-million tons. It is difficult to see how it could
fall below 14-million tons.”
For the next few years there should thus be
an assured market for the great bulk of coal-pro-
duction, but, in a market which is becoming
increasingly open both to competition from other
fuels and to competition between coal-producers,
the industry will have to undertake a number of
adjustments in order to produce the types and the
qualities of coal which are acceptable to consumers.
This seems a fair and realistic assessment of
the position, and if both the colliery-proprietors
and the miners take it to heart and are prepared to
make the necessary “adjustments” there should be
no serious grounds for gloom over the immediate
future of the coal-industry.


THE END OF THE PICNIC


PLAIN ENGLISH
A.L.P. Paradox
Under the influence of its Leftist leader-
ship and Com.-union backing, the
Federal A.L.P. Executive set out to
wreck the Rightist New South Wales
Executive, which was due to come up for
re-election or removal at the annual con-
ference on June 2, six weeks away when
the campaign against it started.
The Federal Executive moved in with
the obvious intention of capturing the
organising machinery of the conference,
steering its debates into the right
channels and seeing that only the
approved people took part in them, assur-
ing that awkward resolutions were not
brought forward, and that resolutions
which were brought forward would be
in a form to suit themselves and that
the voting would be carried out with
the right manoeuvres.
It found itself anticipated in the offen-
sive and some of its own followers up
for trial on the capital charge of associat-
ing with Communists in public affairs
and union elections.
It, however, proceeded with the trial
of a State A.L.P. official, Mr. Kane, only
to find writs issued concerning the main
accusation. The Federal Executive
apparently felt it safer in the circum-
stances to call off the dogs, but it pro-
ceeded to transfer its attention to the
alleged political crimes of the State
Branch Executive as a whole.
Again it seems to have found itself
up against an impasse, and with the
State Conference less than a month away
and its preparations well advanced in
the hands of its enemies. It therefore
used its authority and ordered that the
conference should not be held, and that
the charges against the branch, whatever
they are—nobody outside seems sure,
since the meetings of the Federal and
other bodies are as secret as those of
the Soviet Union Presidium —be referred
to a special Federal conference. It is
alleged that, as a matter of tactics, the
State Executive will agree to this when it
meets on Friday. If it does, the paradox
will be perfect. The State Parliamentary
party apparently agrees to this move. It
is sick with mortal fear at the thought of
a split.
The paradox lies in the incongruous-
ness of the attitudes of Mr. Cahill, who
is the leader of the State A.L.P., and of
the party position. The State A.L.P. and
State caucus acknowledge themselves as
subservient to the Commonwealth A.L.P.
movement. A majority from the small
States on the Federal Executive has power
to suspend the State Executive and take
over the functions of the branch. But
inside N.S.W. the “Labor” Premiet
claims that Commonwealth leaders walk
in his shadow.
It would be queer in any other sphere,
but in a party which is like a carpet-snake
that has been tied in knots and is biting
its own tail, it is nothing out of the
ordinary.
Light on the Constitution
“In the ACT”: Promises by the Prime
Minister last week may lead to the long-
overdue survey of the Constitution. Mr.
Menzies undertook to have set up, before
the end of these sittings, the joint com-
mittee which will investigate at least
some of the changes needed in a docu-
ment now nearly 60 years old —although
there is some fear that the Parliament
may tend to concentrate on the problems
presented by the size and functions of
the Senate rather than on matters of
greater public importance. He also
agreed, for perhaps the third time, to
table the documents relating to the
double-dissolution of 1951. These papers
are of considerable Constitutional impor-
tance, and they should be studied by all
parties before the impending loss of
Government control in the Senate, which
could lead, in circumstances not hard to
imagine, to yet another dissolution of
both Houses.
No political party wants an election at
present, and one seems unlikely just
now. Much may depend upon the Budget
to be presented in August or September,
and on the legislation to be introduced in
the sittings to begin then. All parties may
prefer to await the outcome of any
referendum which the joint committee
may propose on amendment of certain
sections of the Constitution or the addi-
tion of new Federal powers.
It was significant that queries relating
to the committee and the papers followed
immediately after Mr. Casey had
answered questions on the selection of
Sir William McKell as Australian-repre-
sentative on the Malayan Constitutional
Commission. “Labor” has never for-
given the then Governor-General, its own
appointee, for granting the double-disso-
lution, and some members are even
inclined to blame the subsequent debacle
of the party on that issue. Therefore
there were loud murmurs of dissent when
Mr. Casey referred to “this distinguished
lawyer,” and to Sir William’s close know-
ledge of the day-to-day working of a
“modern Constitution.”
The Opposition-leader even refused
leave for incorporation in “Hansard” of
the terms of reference of the Malayan
body. It seems that the tabling of the
papers, when the Prime Minister gets
around to making them public at last,
may lead to a debate in which
personalities may figure more than
Constitutional provisions.
Invitation to a Ball
A sadly irresponsible note crept last
week into the arrangements for cele-
brating the centenary of responsible
government in New South Wales. It
came out that the Lord Mayor (Aider-
man P. D. Hills, who is also “Labor”
M.L.A. for Phillip) is throwing a ball
in honor of the occasion and some
members of the council objected to the
ratepayers bearing the whole of the
£4OOO involved; it was suggested that,
apart from official guests, the function
should be a pay-your-own-way affair.
Defending the original plan, the Lord
Mayor said that the ball was being held
at the request of a State Government
committee, and it would be ridiculous to
ask guests to “bring a picnic-lunch
because we can only supply the hall
and orchestra.” He reminded the
council that “some of the most out-
standing people in Australia, including
the State Governor, the Prime Minister,
and leaders of all walks of Australian
life” were to be invited.
Next day, at a meeting of the N.S.W.
Parliamentary “Labor” party, the ball
was again under discussion, at the
instance of the Premier. Cahill was not
concerned at all about the question of
who was to pay for his supper. His
complaint was over a little matter of
precedence. The announcement about
the important people had mentioned the
Prime Minister, but not himself. Accord-
ing to the “Herald” report, the Premier
said this “might have been by design, but
he was prepared to believe it was
accidental.” However, that sort of thing
had happened too frequently; he
mentioned a function at which two
Federal Ministers had spoken, but a
State Minister representing the Premier
had been ignored. The member for
Phillip assured his Parliamentary leader
that the position had already been recti-
fied —which perhaps means that on the
night of the ball the asparagus will be
passed to Cahill before Menzies.
“Labor” politicians once scoffed at the
Table of Precedence —but that was long,
long ago. Cahill’s last attack of pre-
cedence-fever was on the occasion of the
Queen’s visit, when he had to decide
whether, when her Majesty stepped
ashore at Farm Cove, she was setting
foot in New South Wales or Australia.
Clever diplomacy settled that problem,
as it did on the occasion of another ball
held within a stone’s-throw of Sydney
Town Hall at which a former “Labor”
Premier of N. S. Wales, then Governor-
General, found himself on the invited
list, with the Ambassador for Eire the
guest-of-honor.
The Lord Mayor’s difficulty can be
well understood. He could at least count
on Menzies being present at his ball, but
in the present state of turmoil in the
“Labor” party, with a treason-trial in
progress a couple of blocks away from
the Lord Mayoral chamber, the only
place he could be sure of finding Cahill
was astride the fence.
In a way the £4OOO-ball will have
something in common with the one given
by the Duchess of Richmond on the eve
of Waterloo. While the sounds of revelry
are being heard on May 22, the ear of
“Labor” guests will be attuned to the
peal of deep thunder not so much afar.
Another Yalta?
In Ceylon the new Leftist Ban-
daranaike Government has wasted no
time in telling the United Kingdom to
remove its naval and air bases. It has done
this rudely, the new Premier informing
the House of Representatives that there is
no question of reconsideration. Bandar-
anaike added that the Government would
consider whether Ceylon would be de-
clared a republic or would remain within
the Commonwealth.
The British made Ceylon, as they made
most of the other countries of South-East
Asia. If it had not been for British rule,
India would be one of two things the
age-old seething welter of effete and war-
ring princes ruling over poverty-stricken
States or a united vassal of Russia under
the whip. Ceylon would be a poor place
without the tea and rubber and coconut-
oil industries, organised by the British. It
remains to be seen whether it will maintain
its position if it throws out the British
planters, as it is threatening to do, or
whether it will fall back into something of
the same muddle as Indonesia, which, for
all the brave talk of the Government, is a
backward mass of rebellion ruled by the
tommy-gun.
The suggestion now is that the new
Premier of Ceylon will soon go to
Moscow, where he will be fawned on and
flattered and loaded with gifts and
promises. Everything will be done to lead
him along the same path as Burma is
following, and to link Ceylonese economy
with the Russian and Chinese.
The Singapore position, the subject of
conference in London, is reaching its
crisis on the issue of whether, under the
new self-government, it will control its
own internal security. How the question
is decided at present doesn’t seem to
matter much. When the new enlarged
Assembly is elected the chances are that
the infiltrated Chinese radicals will con-
trol the Government and that the Com-
munists, through terrorism, subornation
of youth and other methods, will control
the majority.
The Chinese Communist Government
also is working hard. It has gone to the
greatest trouble to make the May Day
visitations a success and to stage-manage
tours for visiting reporters at which they
Will be allowed to see nothing but set-
pieces and hear nothing but suave, well-
thought-out lectures on the evil tendencies
of their own Governments and on how
innocuous it would be and how produc-
tive of universal love and amity if Britain
and Australia and Canada would desert
the wicked Americans and Chiang Kai-
shek and allow Red China to import
strategic materials ad lib. Also, how good
it would be for Western trade.
The developments in the Arab world
show another inching towards Asia. The
military alliance of which Egypt is the
head last week took-in Jordan, whose
army will now apparently come under the
command of the Arab bloc which
menaces Israel and Lebanon and British
and American oil interests, as well as
Aden, a port they will make a vital effort
to capture, with Russian help.
Communism has fought to oust the
British from Egypt, Cyprus and Aden, as
well as Ceylon and Malaya, because these
are key spots on our trade-routes and
must be forced into pliant hands as part
of the process of destroying the British
Commonwealth and the democratic
system.
It is no wonder, having regard to the
lightning series of successes which have
been attained by the new Communist
lines, that Moscow is eagerly pursuing its
“peaceful” world plan of revolution. No
wonder, either, that a Nato conference
has appointed a committee to review
possible antidotes for the newest type of
Communist poison.
If there is one thing the world has to
fear more than a new war it is a new
Yalta which might sell it into bondage
without a blow being struck.
The G.-G. and the Gallery
“Stromlo” : Packs (or should it be
prides?) of reporters, including the
superior variety classified as “political
correspondents,” are no rarity in Can-
berra. They can be seen at Prime Minis-
terial interviews, at conferences, at dip-
lomatic receptions, and, of course, in
Parliament House itself, especially in
session-time.
But they are present at these functions
as workers, people with jobs to do.
Seldom are they themselves the reason
for the occasion, the exceptions being
the annual Press Gallery dinner (when
a few selected politicians talk “off the
record” and occasionally relish the chance
of criticising the press in general and indi-
viduals in particular with some good-
natured venom), and the sometimes acri-
monious but private meetings of the
Gallery.
A luncheon in Government House the
other day was therefore something of a
landmark. It was given by the Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, to members of
the Gallery. The 20-odd who attended
enjoyed an informal occasion which, it
was understood, represented his Excel-
lency’s appreciation of the manner in
which the reporters treated him in Can-
berra and throughout Australia.
There were no speeches and no reports^
but much good conversation, including
Sir William’s relished outline of an Irish
critic’s attack on his new book on the
Burma campaign, and his description of
the encounter between a London bobby
and an American general.
On the terrace, over coffee, the host
pointed out across the lawns (where a
few myxo-proof rabbits have appeared
recently) to the wood-working factory in
the distance which has marred one of the
most beautiful views in Australia, and
expressed the hope that a screen of trees
might be planted there soon. This
prompted a guest’s leading question.
“What would you do if you were dic-
tator of Australia for a year?” Sir
William was asked. He smiled as he
answered, “Well, I would umend the Con-
stitution to begin with,” and went on to
reveal a shrewd assessment of some
of the things Australia needs—views
which can be gleaned by a reading of his
impartial but vigorously outspoken
speeches.
The guests themselves were not undis-
tinguished. Many of their names are
known to readers in Australia
and abroad. One was a former
Australian opening batsman, who on this
occasion wore the “bloody duck” tie.
Another was the editor in 1921 of a
Sydney daily. The paper and the
journalist are still flourishing. Yet an-
other was the first radio amateur to
establish wireless contact between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Two were
former Smith-Mundt grantees who had
spent some time in the United States
and are maintaining close liaison with
influential contacts there.
But the presence of all the guests was
due entirely to the fact that as members
of the Press Gallery they are the contacts
between the happening in Canberra and
the people of Australia and other
countries. The luncheon was the
Governor-General’s recognition of that
fact, and an acknowledgment that so far
as he himself is concerned he feels their
job is being done well.
At Close Quarters
From Herbert Holman, who, as The
Bulletin’s representative, attended the
“Bulge and Crush” press conference in
London: —
That great enigma, the visit to
Britain of Bulganin and Khrushchev, is
still incapable of solution in simple terms.
Have they got anything out of us? Have
we got anything out of them? Who were
the losers —they, for failing to imp-ess
the people with their offers of friendship,
or we, for allowing ourselves to be used
for propaganda?
But the British public, at least, has
made its attitude clear. It accords a
wholehearted welcome to representatives
of the Russian people, namely, sailors.
It greets a demoted leader, Malenkov,
with friendly interest. And it receives the
Chairman of the Council of Ministers
of the Soviet Union and a Member of the
Presidium of the Supreme Soviet with
coolness and suspicion. There was
not a cheer, apart from the Communists,
thinly spread-out among the not-very-
dense crowds ; and there were many boos,
provoked not so much by the heat of
passion as by the impish delight of being
able to cock a snook without fear of
arrest and subsequent forced labor.
That the Russian leaders are accus-
tomed to having their own way and
strangers to the practice of co-operation
was apparent very early. There was no
evidence of the mutual working-out of
details. Rather did it seem that the
Foreign Office went along with its plans
for the visit and hoped for the best.
The press conference, for example,
was never certain to take place. The
printed invitations bore no date and were
acquired only after the palaver of supply-
ing one’s date and place of birth and two
passport-type photographs. Then it was
arranged, cancelled, and, in the end,
fitted-in immediately before departure.
Bulganin, who managed the confer-
ence, has the gravity of age but is any-
thing but senile. In fact, he managed the
conference with effortless composure.
And he suggests (no insult!) the typical
successful bourgeois, highly astute and
intelligent but not of a cultured bram--
the kind of man who “gets there’ by
guile or acuity rather than personality.
He spoke—or, rather, read—for near!}
an hour in a soft voice but entirely with-
out emotion. Once only did he betra\
any feeling, and that was a trace of bitter-
ness and sarcasm over the “most im-
portant session being held now on dis-
armament.” No progress was being made
because it was “not a sub-committee on
disarmament but one for concealing the
arms-race.” ,
The many sides' of foolscap he read
{Continued on next page)


out, translated by the interpreter in a
strong but languid American accent,
came over as a string of platitudes to a
silent but not-very-impressed audience.
It amounted to no more than an extension
of the communique, with the announce-
ment, in the same dry monotone, that
Eden would visit Russia and that he,
Bulganin, was confident that “the visit
will be of the utmost importance.”
Meanwhile, the cameras whirred, the
Klieg-lights became more oppressive, and
the journalists looked at their watches.
At the end of Bulganin’s address, the
entirely-Russian party made as if to
move away. There was a flutter, and they
resumed their places. Yes, they would
take questions, but only written ones.
Another flutter.
v Malik and the Soviet press-chief
busied themselves with bits of paper.
Whether they screened them or not is
still being disputed. They passed some
that were near the bone, but, significantly,
the name of Stalin was never heard.
Here the conference came to life, if only
because it revealed the voice of Khrush-
chev. He, it must be said, tackled the job
with relish. As with the practised
Western politician, the more embarrass-
ing the question, the more relish he gave
to his answer. Of course, he didn’t
answer them. And he showed an in-
stinctive quickness of wit in the way he
evaded one about the living-standards
of the average Briton, making "Sure
that there was no possibility of his
ever being reminded that he once let slip
an observation that the Englishman en-
joyed a high, a moderate or any standard
of living at all.
Khrushchev is bald, squat and well
groomed. His voice is rough, but he has
a lively sense of humor, he waves his
hands and shows his gold-filled teeth.
A man of tremendous force of character
and, no doubt at all, a fanatic.
One didn’t get the impression that Bul-
ganin was a stooge. Khrushchev seemed
volatile and Bulganin the one with more
staying-power—the one, perhaps, to have
the last word.
These men seemed remote, aloof and
exclusive —and it wasn’t the proscenium-
arch and their entry from the wings
which gave this impression. They are
able, self-confident men, pinnacles away
from the common touch, and more sus-
ceptible to the exigencies of power and
purpose than to the righteousness of the
humanities. Whatever their professions
of friendship towards ourselves, they
could not disguise their bitterness towards
the United States.
So, in sum, what little we have learned
from them at close quarters is much the
same as before, only underlined.
POLITICAL POINTS
Drive-in or hand-out?
Every second worker in Russian cities
owns either a car or a bike, according
to the Soviet trade-union officials who
visited Sydney for the May Day mooch.
That’s nothing! Every second woman in
Australia has either a mink-coat or a
knitted jumper.
9 9
Gair has become the first Australian
Premier to electioneer by TV. When he
spoke at the South Brisbane Library hall
he was televised on closed-circuit and his
picture appeared on screens in the hall.
The audience could take their choice—
either look at him in the flesh or turn in
their seats and take him secondhand.
Eyewitnesses say there was no real
choice. Whichever way they looked at
him he was the same old Gair.
9 9
They’re pushing up their barrows for
invitations to Lud Mayor Mills’s ball.
9 9
N.S.W. Parliament is to pass a bill to
reconstitute the Fire Commissioners’
Board and make the retiring age 65, the
idea being to secure the retirement of
the present chief-commissioner, Thomas
Januarius Smith, whose current term
doesn’t expire until next year. The Gov-
ernment claims that when T.J. was
granted his last extension he signed an
undertaking to retire if asked by Cabinet
to do so, but that he has since refused to
honor it. Last week someone put out
the story that J. T. Kane, a leading figure
in the A.L.P. treason-trial, was to be
offered the job. Asked about it, Kane
said he hadn’t been approached, and
that, anyhow, he’d never had any ambi-
tion to be a fireman.
* 9
Private savings-banks are to be exempt
from stamp-duty obligations in Victoria
and will thus be on the same footing as
the Government savings-banks. This
seems fair enough, but Opposition-leader
Cain describes the bill which provides for
it as a conspiracy between Menzies and
Bolte to give special privileges to the
private banks.
9 9
A move which should help exporters
to open-up new markets abroad is the
Export Payments Insurance Corporation
Bill introduced by Minister for Trade
McEwen. Risks to be covered by the
corporation include loss due to the
insolvency of the buyer or his failure to
pay within 12 months ; failure to obtain
exchange (but not loss through variations
in the exchange-rate) ; loss through war,
revolution, etc., in the buyer’s country.
Exporters taking advantage o'f the scheme
will be expected to offer a “fair spread
of risk” and not merely pick out their
worst risks for insuring. To ensure
the exercise of normal commercial
prudence the maximum allowable claim
will be 85 per cent, of the insured value.
9 9
After Richardson, J., had dismissed a
Supreme Court jury on the grounds that
the wife of one of the jurymen was in
court and that discussion between hus-
band and wife might result in the case
being considered by “five jurors instead
of four,” it came out that the juror in
question was 84. His Honor suggested
that there should be a retiring-age for
jurors—possibly 70, the same age as for
judges. Now that jury-service has been
extended to include all male electors,
surely the octogenarians could be
exempted—even if they don’t bring their
wives to the court.
9 9
The battle of the rolls is still raging
in Queensland, with Liberal and
Country-party candidates complaining
that the rolls, particularly in the northern
part of the State, include hundreds of
names of non-existent people or of
persons who have shifted from the elec-
torates. Gair’s reply is that the Opposi-
tion has been using last December’s rolls
and that the discrepancies complained of
have probably all been adjusted in the
supplementary rolls. To which Nicklin
rejoins that it will be a miracle if any
great number of the names is erased,
and that his party will continue the check
right up till polling-day.
9 9
Proposing that £lOOO be spent by
Sydney City Council in entertaining old-
age pensioners on the occasion of the
centenary of responsible government in
N.S.W., Alderman Lewis said that these
old folk had contributed a good deal
towards making Sydney what it is today.
It seems hardly fair to talk like that
about people who aren’t in a position to
hit back.
9 9
Those Liberal back-benchers who want
the Government to separate the Central
Bank activities of the Commonwealth
Trading and Savings Bank got a little
further last week when the P.M.
announced that a committee would be
set-up to investigate banking-reform. It
will include Ministers and back-
benchers.
9 9
Queensland is facing a bleak future
after May 19. Both sides are prophesying
disaster for the State if the other is
returned.
9 9
“Stromlo”: It isn’t correct, as
reported in some quarters, that before
the recent election in Ceylon Prime
GOING MY WAY?
Minister Menzies had been invited to
make another official visit to that island
on his way to London. But it is
likely that while his ship is in
Colombo he will have discussions with
Bandaranaike and other Ceylonese
leaders. The P.M.’s trip will also take
him to Malta, Austria, France, the United
States, Japan and perhaps Indonesia as
well as London. He may even see a Test-
match or two.
9 9
The best city in which to own a
drive-in theatre is Melbourne, but the
best city in which to own a drive-in-
theatre licence is Sydney,
9 9
T. A. Foley, Queensland Minister for
Lands, was acquitted last week of the
charge of having corruptly solicited
£lOOO for A.L.P. funds. The charge was
that in conversation with F. M. Bell, a
Boonah grazier, he had suggested a con-
tribution to party funds as consideration
for the grant of a stud-lease. The case
was heard in the Brisbane Police Court
by Hickey, S.M., who found that at no
time during a conversation between
Foley and Bell in Foley’s office on
December 14, 1949, did Foley corruptly
or otherwise solicit £lOOO from Bell, and
that Foley was not guilty of a charge
that he had done so.
9 9
In the course of the case against Foley
the Crown called Mr. Justice Philp as a
witness to give evidence of a conversa-
tion he had had with Bell, but Hickey,
S.M., ruled that his evidence was not
admissible. At the resumed Land
inquiry a few days later Philp, J., was
examined on the alleged conversation. He
said that Bell came up to him in the
Brisbane Club one morning some years
ago—he couldn’t fix the date —looking
agitated and ill. He said that he had just
come from Foley, who had asked him to
give £lOOO to party funds —“and if I do
he will give me the lease.” The judge had
told Bell he could give him no advice
except to see his solicitor. Some weeks
later Bell told him he had seen McGill,
K.C. He had had no further conversa-
tion on the subject with Bell until the
latter came to him a few hours before he
gave evidence at the Land inquiry. Bell
had asked him if he objected to his name
being mentioned. He had replied that
he had no objection and would give
evidence if required.
Questioned about the judge’s evidence,
Foley said he didn’t doubt that the
conversation took place. He agreed that
this would mean that Bell had concocted
the story while on the way from the
Lands Office to the Brisbane Club. The
inquiry is still proceeding.
9 9
What’s all this sissy business of hand-
ing nosegays to visiting Reds? Next
thing they’ll be offering a prize for the
best floral decorations at the wharfies’
picnic.
9 9
Gair told a Townsville audience that
“Labor” was not opposed to the prin-
ciple of a new State in north Queensland,
but that its policy was to defer the issue
until a new State could support itself.
That’s hardly in accordance with facts.
As a party “Labor” subscribes to the
principle of a unified Government for all
Australia. State “Labor” Governments,
unwilling to end their own careers, defer
all attempts to bring this about, but it’s
most unlikely that any one of them will
ever go so far from the platform as to
create an additional State.
• •
“In the ACT”: The first meeting of the
Australian Advisory Council on Biblio-
graphical Services, which gathered in
Canberra and elected Sir John Morris,
Tasmania’s C.J., as chairman, appointed
a survey-committee of three to under-
take an immediate survey of Australian
bibliographical resources, activities and
needs, and to recommend steps necessary
to meet deficiencies. The fact that the
council will co-operate with other coun-
tries through Unesco offers hope that
overseas material, especially in the fields
of economic, industrial and social
research, which is now hard to reach in
Australia, will' soon become available.
It sounds like a lifetime job for active
bookworms.
• •
Locust-control in the Middle East (B.
2/5/’56) will suffer a big setback if the
Saudi Arabian Government persists with
its request for the withdrawal of the
British Desert-locust Control unit from
its territory. The unit is sponsored by
the U.N. Food and Agricultural
Organisation and has been operating in
the area for over 10 years. Central
Arabia is one of the main breeding-
grounds of the desert-locust.
9 9
Eddie Ward’s interest in the welfare
of the Petrovs and in the payments made
to them may be benevolent —or it may
be not. The Prime Minister reminded
him the other day that the Petrovs are
engaged in supplying information which
is most valuable to Australia and the free
world. It was not decided how long this
would continue, but as no wage or salary
was being paid the question of remunera-
tion “might well have to be considered at
some stage.” The receipt for the £5OOO
paid to Petrov was not marked “final
payment.” He added that a small
expense-allowance was paid to Mrs.
Petrov for personal necessities and
replacement of belongings lost when she
sought asylum.
9 9
“Double X”: That Russian order for
plastic door-knobs (B. 2/5/’56)1 Per-
haps they’re intended to replace the hun-
dreds of thousands of knobs souvenired
from Austrian doors by the Rus-
sian Army of occupation? Along with
the knobs went water-taps, wash-basins,
sanitary-fixtures, electric-fittings and any-
thing else in household furniture, furnish-
ings, gadgets and appliances that the
troops could lift, unscrew, pull out, or
break off and carry away with them.
9 9
Final chapter in the celebrated East
African Peanut Project has been written,
or at least the British Overseas Food
Corporation has published what it hopes
will be the final report. Its verdict is
that peanuts must take their place in
rotation with eight or nine other tropical
crops, and that “some of the corpora-
tion’s research will benefit tropical agri-
culture in general.” The benefit has been
rather dearly bought at £36 million.
9 9
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: One of the periodical
curiosities in New Guinea is the visit of
a U.N. inspection-team. This year it
comprised Sir John MacPherson (U.K.),
M. E. Cheko (India), M. D. Massonette
(Belgium) and J. Rolez (Guatemala); it
spent five weeks in the Territory and
also visited Nauru. After brief calls at
Sydney and Canberra the mission left for
New Zealand, en route for Samoa. With
the future of New Guinea becoming
increasingly important to Australia, the
committee’s report will be awaited with
more than usual interest.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A FEW days after the Victorian police
announced an all-in drive against
law-breakers on the roads I found
myself in a slow-crawling double-line of
traffic, alongside a powder-blue car
chock-full of policemen. Like everyone
else, I smartened up on hand-signals,
kept a watchful eye fore-and-aft and
generally endeavored to avoid any cause
for attracting unwelcome attention from
the neighboring vehicle. One thing I
noticed and would have liked to mention
to the gentlemen in blue: during the
100yds. or so that they kept abreast of
me the police-car driver kept his elbow
planted firmly on the window-sill (a fault
I was particularly cautioned against when
I dicNny driving-test a couple of years
back) and at intervals gripped the
window-frame —a'nother glaring fault. If
the police can’t set an example of fault-
less driving, how can they expect the
average motorist to observe the good-
driving-code? —“Doynest.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fasdean”: If Joe Cahill’s trams
don’t pay, they ought to. Butted into one
at Hunter-street, and when the mob was
decanted at King-street an even bigger
mob milled-in to travel the one stop to
Market-street. From thence to Goul-
burn-street —by when there wasn’t room
for a mosquito—Railway-bound hordes
kept piling in. In my youth, when fares
Were twopence, we invariably legged any-
thing under five or six stops; and if
there were deficits it wasn’t because the
trams had to carry tramway employees.
♦> +> +*♦
“Chalker”: At Hobart one of the
largest lotteries in the world is conducted.
At Ulverstone, on the Speck’s north coast,
the municipal council banned “organised
sport” on Good Friday and Easter Sun-
day this year. Golf and bowls com-
petitions, which had been held on these
days for upwards of 30 years, came under
the taboo. For good measure the council
has since forbidden the holding of fire-
brigade demonstrations in the street on
Sunday.
♦j« <4 <4
“Vee Jay”: As the summit of praise
for a novel an American blurb-writer
described it as a “real wowser of a book.”
The pungent Australianism has lost much
of its former currency, but I should have
thought its usage secure enough in
literary circles, even in the U.S. I had an
absurd vision of the dust-jacket of a
future American edition of The Cautious
Amorist, proclaiming it “a real wowser
of' a story.”
♦> ♦!> ►>
“T.J.”: First it was nylon, then orlon,
then dacron and terylene, each with its
own special qualities, but all with the no-
ironing features which made wives
budget furiously so’s husbands could wear
shirts made of such fabrics. True, we
felt semi-naked at first, as if we were
wearing her ladyship’s lingerie, until the
weavers came to the rescue with opaque
stuffs. But now we can wear cotton
shirts with all the admirable features
which free the little woman from toil
on our behalf —and for which we didn’t
have to budget so carefully before we
could buy ’em. Yes, we’re back to cotton
—but I can’t help wondering how long
it’d have taken for these features to
arrive if it hadn’t been for the wonders
of the synthetics. What a case for the
virtues of competition!
❖ <♦ ❖
“Moorapi”: Jacques Mornard, doing
20 years in Mexico for the murder of
Trotsky, must be in a mental dilemma
"I'll pay the bill!”
following the posthumous eclipse of
Stalin. Did he assassinate a national
hero or a double-dyed traitor?
A fy
V V v
“Eighty-seven”: The fight against
extradition by a former Yugoslav
reminded me of when many Yugoslavs
were employed in the mining- and timber-
industries of the West, and a favorite
story in Perth insurance circles was
about an Australian politician travelling
in Europe who visited Yugoslavia. In
the stony fields of the harsh countryside
"What-flavored undercoat are you using?”
barefooted women toiled alongside their
hardworking menfolk, and extreme
poverty was evident everywhere. But in
one village the women wore shoes, the
men played bowls all day, no one worked,
and prosperity abounded. The poli-
tician, bewildered by this variation, asked
his guide to explain why only one village
in so many was prosperous, and was told
that the men had come home with a
fortune and a new god. Their god, he
said, lived in a book on the mantel-
piece of each cottage, but, being a devout
Christian, he had never seen one. So
the politician approached one of the men
watching the bowls and, after soyie
explaining by the guide, was shown the
book —a bound copy of the Workmen’s
Compensation Act of Western Australia.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Strue”: Touching on the manless
church-service recorded by “Kenyas”
(B. 4/4/’56), during the last war all the
young men from our village had enlisted
and the older ones were all members of
the V.D.C. and would arrive home from
their drill too tired to attend afternoon-
service. So we had an all-women con-
gregation, a woman-organist, a woman-
minister “Presbyterian home-mission-
ary,” and a wonderful speaker she was,
too. I put out the books and took up
the collection, a job I quite enjoyed, as I
paced the aisle with measured tread and
tried hard not to see what each one put
on the plate. After the service I counted
the money, put away the books, shut the
windows and gave the front door a
terrific bang to make sure it was locked.
All without the aid of man. I must
admit that the singing had a very “sisters-
only” sound about it.
*t* *> ❖
“Dorian”: Story goes that Scarlatti’s
pet cat leapt on to the harpsichord and
landed on two totally-unconnected
major triads, thus prompting Domenico
to write his “Cat’s Fugue.” I spent an
entire afternoon coaxing our cat on to
the keys, but all he could produce was
discord. Scarlatti’s cat, like his master,
must have been a genius.
*
“Auriol”: That poetic blue light
behind the diapasons in Sydney’s Town
Hall must be very restful to concertgoers.
Can the same be said of the score or so
of ferns in the organ-gallery in green-
painted kerosene-tins?
♦J4 **♦
“Renraw”: The school committee of a
near-town Queensland district, consisting
of middle-aged farmers, etc., functioned
lackadaisically for 30 years until a
divorcee was unexpectedly elected secre-
tary, the sole woman on the committee.
Interest quickened in school affairs;
members vied for more responsible
offices nearer the secretary ; a quorum
was no longer a problem. The com-
mittee unanimously agreed to her sug-
gestions, which called for departmental
sanction. Anything, anything. The
public-works inspector was met by the
secretary at school-site, and she soon
had him eating out of her hand. Result:
favorable report; new works quickly
under way.
*•:< ❖ ❖
“Zprok”: Pleased to hear of the
making of the film “The Ten Command-
ments” on the life of Moses (B. 25/4/’56)
—an inspiring story, which should turn
out to be one of Cecil B. de Mille’s
greatest films. Still, I hope he respects
historical accuracy. Was not always so,
as satirised in the following (perhaps
prophetic) lines, dating from the
’thirties:
Cecil B. de Mille,
Much against his will,
Was forced to leave Moses
Out of the Wars of the Roses.
I recall that, in his “Ben Hur,” De Mille
had the Crucifixion and the destruction
of Pompeii, separated historically by 46
years, as happening within a few months
of one another.
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: It’s possible that the
use of “bull” for rubbish or nonsense is
both respectable and non-Australian. The
term “Irish bull,” or plain “bull,” is said
to date from at least the time of Henry
VIII. It comes from the Gaelic Beul-
aithris (pronounced beul-airish), later
reversed to Irish bull, and means an oral
tradition without foundation. Beul, the
mouth, and aithris, a tradition. In either
its first or later term the Australians took
it and vulgarised it, as both forms, Gaelic
and English, are still in use overseas.
❖ * ❖
“Cash Count”: All over Melbourne
one sees notices in shops: “Five Pound
Notes Not Accepted.” In our bank’s
street are five dry-cleaning receiving-
depots ; competition naturally very keen.
Proprietor of one asked me if there was
any sure-fire methods of detecting the
forged fivers. I gave him. a copy of the
list of imperfections supplied by our head-
office. Next time I passed his shop I
saw a huge notice scrawled across his
window: “We will accept five-pound
notes.” He tells me business has
improved 25 per cent.
“£ s. d.”: Tellers from all our metro-
politan branches were called into head-
office for a briefing on ways to detect
counterfeit fivers. We were shown slides
of the forged note with the imperfections
enlarged. Afterwards there was a general
discussion. One humorist solemnly
informed the chief-inspector that there
was one foolproof test. “If you look at
the back of the note,” he said, “you'll
see that there’s a bunch of apples on the
right-hand side.” The chief checked and
agreed. “Well, sir,” the funny man
assured him, “if that apple has the codlin-
moth in it it’s no good.”
“Stan”: A Melbourne shop adverffi
sing refrigerators has a large ringed ‘ £5
above the window, denoting the deposit.
Underneath is an extra inducement in
small lettering which proclaims that
“every famous brand is in stock.
Melbourne has been having more than
its share of trouble with only tvvo
varieties available.
THE DESERTERS
“Last year the committee of Parramatta Art
Society hung 15 rejects to fill-up wall-space, and
three were sold within an hour of the show’s
opening; so, concluding that it didn’t know
what the public wanted; the committee has
asked four ordinary citizens to make this year’s
selection.”
O traitors to the cause of Art!
O Art Society of Parramatta,
Leaving the mountain by the peasant’s
cart,
Throwing off authority to the last
tatter:
Picasso blame thee !
Paul Klee shame thee!
The “Herald” Art Critic damn
thee !
Be hanged in portraiture and left to rot —
Whatever Modern Art is, thou art not!
Thou hast abrogated thine office
To four members of the vile community
Settling over simple teas or coffees
Matters of linear perspective and artis-
tic unity,
Ignorant of Expressionism,
Innocent of Surrealism,
Undismayed by esoteric Positiv-
ism,
Considering Art some form of lucky-
strike :
“Not knowing what it is, but what they
like.”
As though after thirty years of this
Modern and contemporary art-
criticism
Anyone could tell them what Art is,
More than a clothes-fashion or bar-
room-witticism,
Made out of friends and rela-
tions,
Spiritual manifestations
And deranged concatenations,
O Committee, and an obscure form of
pidgin —
Thou hast halted the progress of Art to
the state of religion !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TTAS anyone noticed the mournful
-■-■-quality that has crept into the ren-
dering of popular songs? Your ear is
caught by some dirge sung slowly and
sadly, and on listening closely you per-
ceive it to be a cheerful trifle of some
years back, such as “You’re the Cream
in My Coffee,” being given the treatment
of the hoarse whisper dwelling on every
note. They seem to have reintroduced
most of the songs of the ’thirties as
laments. I am waiting for them to go
further back, to the gaily-witless hits of
the ’twenties. There are great mourning-
possibilities in “It Ain’t Gonna Rain No
Mo’” and “When It's Springtime in
Italy, It’s Wednesday Over Here” could
be full of mystic awe. —“Darzee.”
■i 4 <j+
“Geep”: Perth’s Dead Letter Office
reports the arrival from Yugoslavia of a
letter addressed to “Mitzi Oberascher,
if anything is enclosed, letter will be sent
by ordinary mail, Australia.”
* ♦> *
“Ardoyne”: “Lonely-money,” for men
who are obliged to work in lonely spots,
has already been claimed by British oil-
refinery workers, a handful of whom
control acres of plant. Automation could
mean that many industrial operatives will
work in isolation in the future. But, as
my wife observed, there’s about as much
chance of a housewife getting lonely-
money—though if anyone earns it the
woman-in-the-home does —as there is of
her succeeding in claims for overtime,
dirt-money, danger-money or disabilities-
allowances.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: On the lines of its two
drive-in theatres, Brisbane will soon have
its first drive-in bank. The circular
design will be the first in Australia, and
is guaranteed to eliminate all blind
corners. Two tellers’ boxes will attend
to deposits and withdrawals, and clients
making either will not find it necessary to
leave their cars. A 12-car parking-lot
will remove parking-problems for drivers
using other bank-facilities.
* *
“Sparks”: An elderly man slipped and
fell at a busy Brisbane intersection and
rolled in the gutter. A policeman
arrived, and a few minutes later an
ambulance, siren wailing,
scattered the onlookers.
The victim was stood-up,
dusted and inspected.
Politely at first, and then
with growing irritation, the
old man refused the
entreaties of policeman
and ambulance-bearer to
go to hospital or be taken
home. With a final “I’m
all right, I tell you,” he set
his hat firmly on his head, took a firm
grip on his brolly and stepped off the
footpath to cross the street, dead against
the red light. A taxi missed him by a
few millimetres, and trams and cars
jangled and squealed to a halt, horns
blaring. The old fellow continued across
the street with a lofty air, oblivious of
the confusion. He made it safely to the
other side ; the policeman shrugged, the
ambulance-man mopped his forehead and
the crowd heaved a sigh and slowly
dispersed.
♦♦♦ »> ♦+♦
“Loki”: “Ceg’s” solicitor (B. 4/4/’56)
was very moderate in his charges. Buy-
ing a block of land, I agreed to meet the
vendor’s legal costs. When a list of
charges as long as my arm arrived I did
flinch, and I was slightly upset at having
to pay for two telephone-inquiries by the
vendor concerning the progress of the
sale, since all the delay had been caused
by his solicitor’s failure to reply to requi-
sitions. What really caused the col-
lapse of my nervous system was the final
item: “To preparing and posting this
account. . . 10s. 6d.”
❖ * *X*
“M’boro”: As noted in a Bulletin
par., cops’ towing-away of cars belong-
ing to Brisbaneites who infringe parking-
laws has ended. My only regret is that
no one got around to testing the legal
validity of a police-order which allowed,
when a car was locked, what amounted
to breaking and entering. And who
would have coughed-up if a car taken
away by the tow-truck (without anything
like an owner’s knowledge, let alone per-
mission) had been smashed-up? And
"It Was the same when I Was on ops. —I always preferred the big,
heavy crates."
what . . . Ah, well, it’s finished now —
just before another election, coinci-
dentally.
A %
“Doric”: As a tourist in Italy I saw
many famous statues which are copied in
our parks and gardens. The originals
usually dispense with the fig-leaves with
which our park-ornamenters of the Vic-
torian age preserved the public from
“You say you shot it in your pyjamas? My heavens, how did
it get into them ?”
knowing what everybody knew. An
exception is the Archibald Fountain in
Hyde Park, Sydney; there was a mild
uproar when it was first unveiled. Does
anyone know how the ancients who wore
’em kept their fig-leaves on? The statues
show no visible means of support.
❖ * *
“Pevin”: I. know the home-town
singers and their songs so well that I
think I could fill-in for any of them if
necessary; but I doubt if the radio-
announcer, giving details about a forth-
coming social evening, meant to be so
brutally frank when he said: “Of course,
the usual items will be given by local
artists.”
❖ ►>
“P.0.M.C.”: A new effusion of Tin
Pan Alley carries the line, “Get a load
of me,” meaning “get a look at me” or
“take notice of me”—a pure Austra-
lianism, most probably of northern
N.S.W. coalfields origin. Australian
speech is so loaded with Americanisms
that it would be interesting to learn how
this expression of ours came to be
accepted in the Alley.
❖ <4
“Bush-cat”: “C.A.L.’s” department-
stores buyer (B. 7/3/’56), who thought
his upper-crust customers from the better-
class districts bought cane rakes and
booked them up to create an impression,
certainly does not know much about his
business. Cane rakes are used on lawns,
and no other type is so suitable. The
steel rake is a horrible failure at raking
a lawn, but the, only sort to rake a back-
yard. I learned about cane rakes many
years ago when a slick salesman was
trying to sell me shares in some per-
petual forest while 1 was endeavoring to
sweep leaves off my meagre lawn. He
told me of the cane rake’s virtue, and
then, realising probably that I had no
money to invest, he bought two cases of
oranges from me. A good day all round
for me.
❖ ►>
“Stan”: For years my brother has
emphasised that a person only thinks he
will get seasick and consequently does.
Last week, on his first trip across Bass
Strait, his opening meal was roast pork,
baked potatoes, and pudding. He
returned by air.
❖ ❖ *
“Opsimath”: Perth doctors were
mystified when a three-year-old Greek-
migrant child developed anaemia from no
apparent cause. After blood-transfu-
sion and treatment she was sent home
cured, but was back at the hospital a few
months later with the same complaint.
This time they found the cause —she had
eaten broad-beans each time before
falling ill. Simple cure: lay-off broad-
beans for life. Her countryman of
2500 years ago, Pythagoras of Samos,
would have said, “I told you so.” Apart
from the matter of the square on the
hypotenuse, he is best known as the
inventor of a religion, one of the main
tenets of which was the sinfulness of eat-
ing broad-beans. Other standing-orders
for Pythagoreans included: Not to let
swallows build their nest in your roof;
not to break bread, but to cut it; not to
look at a mirror beside a light; to
smooth out the impress of your body in
the bedclothes when you get up in the
morning; and, when the pot is taken off
the fire, not to leave the mark of it in
the ashes, but to stir them together. The
allergy to the broad-bean (Vida faba ) is
well-known in Mediterranean countries
today, although rare. Some closely-
allied legumes are highly poisonous, such
as the Calabar-bean (Physostigma vene-
nosum) formerly used by West African
natives as a test for crime and witchcraft.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: I read about the magnificent
presents given by Bulganin and Khrush-
chev to the Royal Family, then went to
the pictures. The film was “Helen of
Troy,” and when that lady remarked,
“Beware of the Greeks bearing gifts,” I
thought how much better this might
apply to the Bear bearing gifts.
*J> <£► *2>
“W.G.L.”: As I waited at my favorite
milk-bar, the attendant, in leaning too
far across the open milk-container,
tipped a metal serving-vessel into the
milk. With a loud cry of “Ah, wouldn’t
it!” she plunged her hand in the milk
and retrieved it. I went to the pub
across the street and had a beer,
untouched by human hand, if only
because of the inhumanity of Bungs.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“J.K.D.”: Someone snoops around
Brisbane laneways at night pinching
rubbish-tins, and contents.
***
“Geep”: When the Brazilian rubber-
bubble burst soon after War I the thriving
Amazon port of Manaos declined
rapidly, and the English company running
the tramways-system became alarmed at
its decreased revenue. An expert sent
out from England saved the day by
announcing that the numbered tram-
tickets would in future also serve as
tickets in a lottery to be drawn every
Saturday afternoon. Trams were again
crowded, many passengers clamoring to
buy several tickets for one journey.
Maybe Mr. Macmillan’s Lottery Budget
bonds will, after all, save the day for
the British Exchequer, though a
suggested applying of the method to
Sydney tram-services has been coldly
received in the Sydney press.
❖ ❖ *
“Jon Lyn”: On Anzac morning I saw
a Sydney-bound citizen board the train
carrying a brief-case, portable radio and
tin-hat (plastic version).
“Cooli Bah”: Strikes me as odd that
on Anzac Days our Australian
emblematic manifestation should be a
buttonhole-sprig of an English weed, with
sound-effects by a Scotch instrument of
torture. What’s wrong with gumleaves
and the didgeridoo? Gumleaves don’t
seem to me to stink any worse: the
didgeridoo I can’t say that I’ve heard, but
surely to goodness it couldn’t be any
worse, either.
WHY IS IT?
Why is it that the seat is front
Of you at flicks must always be
Filled, not by narrow-shouldered runt,
But beefy bloke of six-foot-three ?
Holding your rail-ticket, you will go
Through barrier for weeks; dame
scorns to quiz it.
Running late, parcelled, homing — lo!
It’s then that she’ll demand a show.
Why is it ?
Why is it molar does its “wust,”
Betokening unguessed decay,
And starts to ache —but not till just
On lunch-time on a Saturday ?
The play you have delayed to see
Till the last night. You mustn't miss
it.
That’s the one night o’ the year you’ll be
From gastric pains in agony,
Or get the ’flu, or bust your knee.
Why is it ?
Why is it, when no guests are due,
The wife makes scones light as a
feather;
Yet when they are, this will ensue:
They’ll turn-out to be tough as leather.
Inter-State friends drop in to see
You, paying an unexpected visit;
This you can pretty well guarantee:
In major chaos the house will be
With lino-laying activity.
Why is it ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEM
At a Legacy Club luncheon in Sydney
last week an Englishman and an
American had a yarn about flying and
such; appropriate, all round. The
American was Lieut.-General James H.
Doolittle, now a vice-president of the
Shell Oil Company, and making this
visit for the Coral Sea celebrations. The
Englishman, Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Basil
Embry, was on his way to New Zealand,
where he’s going in for sheep.
Doolittle, after his 1942 raid on Tokyo,
and later command of the U.S. Eighth
Air Force, was one of the most publicised
figures in the world. His penchant for
leaving his desk and personally leading
his bomber-formations on occasion,
appealed to the imagination, and —early
in the war, particularly —that sort of
leadership was a valuable morale-booster.
A great pilot, he did a lot in the pioneer-
ing of blind-flying, and in North Africa
he learned that planes can take more
punishment than the men who fly them.
Not so well known that he’s also a first-
rate aeronautical engineer—Doctor of
Science
Embry, A.D.C. to the King from 1941
to 1943, later became Assistant Chief of
Air Staff (Training), and then Air-
Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Fighter
Command. In 1953 he became Com-
mander-in-Chief, Allied Air Forces,
Central Europe. He was awarded the
A.F.C. in Irak in 1926 ; “mentioned” in
the Mohmand operation, and D.S.O. in
Waziristan. In War 11, three “mentions,”
three Bars to his D. 5.0., C. 8., D.F.C.,
and K.8.E., in that chronological order.
He’s also Knight Commander, Ist Class,
Order of Dannebrog; Grand Officer
Order of Orange Nassau, with swords;
Commander of the Legion of Honor ;
Croix de Guerre.
GARNETT CARROLL, O.B.E.,
Melbourne theatre-proprietor and
entrepreneur.
Captain William Beresford Moffitt
Marks, R.A.N., Director of Ordnance
and Underwater Weapons since 1954, has
been awarded the U.S. Legion of Merit,
Degree of Legionnaire, for work in
Korean waters when he commanded the
Bataan.
• e
“D.”: Here’s the answer to “J.D.W.,”
who asked (B. 25/4/’56) for the connec-
tion between Thomas Brydone Mac-
farlane R.A.S. vice-president, life"
governor of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association and councillor of the Aus-
tralian Corriedale Sheepbreeders’ Asso-
ciation —and Thomas Brydone, the Scot
who migrated to New Zealand to take
charge of the New Zealand and Austra-
lian Land Co.’s properties and who, it is
elsewhere recorded, remained to become
the practical founder of both the ship-
ping of frozen-meat and of the dairy-
industry.
Thomas Brydone’s niece (name also
Brydone), of Edinburgh, met and mar-
ried Donald Macfarlane, of Inverness,
and in the 1870’s they moved to N.Z.,
where Macfarlane went straight on the
land at the Levels Estate and then
at Kurow in South Canterbury as
manager for the N.Z.A.L. Co. There
Thomas Brydone Macfarlane was born
in 1886. The family subsequently
managed Hakataramea, Otago, running
Corriedales and Border Leicesters.
In 1908 the family crossed the Tasman
to Tarriaro station, Narrabri (N.S.W.),
and went in for sheep and wheat (Boram-
bil and Blair Gowrie at West Wyalong
in the Riverina) and cattle (Chudleigh
Park, Hughenden, Q.). Thomas Brydone
Macfarlane bought Cullingra, at Mer-
riwa; a brother (J. 8.) bought Eurella, at
Rylstone, sold it and bought Eurella, at
Cudal; and another brother (D.D.)
bought Budden, in the Bylong Valley,
Rylstone. These three N. S. Wales proper-
ties are Corriedale studs, and the sheep
for them, brought over from N.Z. in
1911, were from the original stud founded
by W. Davidson on the Levels Estate.
t •
An unusual centenarian is Joseph R.
Rundle, who is enjoying a green old age
at Kerang (Vic.). Plans were all afoot
for the celebration of his 100th birthday
when news came from the registrar’s
office that Mr. Rundle was mistaken —
he was not 100 but 101, according to the
official records. Mr.' Rundle took this
devastating intelligence philosophically.
“Oh, well,” he said, “I suppose they made
a mistake in the goldrush days. Anyhow,
it doesn’t matter, as I am well and will
just keep plodding along.”
• •
“J.D.W.”: New Zealand’s team to the
Olympic Games will be in the capable
managerial hands of L. W. Woods (Well-
ington), who in business-life is secretary
of New Zealand Breweries. Appointed
by ballot, he was nominated by the N.Z.
Wrestling Association.
• •
Brian James (John Tierney), whose
The Bunyip at Barney’s Elbow is now
with the printer, writes short-stories ex-
clusively for The Bulletin ; his books
have been published by Angus and
Robertson. He didn’t start writing fic-
tion until 1942, when he had reached the
half-century, and then it came out in a
flood. First Furrow, Cookabundy Bridge
and The Advancement of Spencer Button
add-up to a decent output, but the best
judgment of Brian James as a writer
would need to be based on the total of
his published works.
Cookabundy Bridge won the 1946 S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize (likeness herewith
was drawn by a grandson of S.H.). Of
First Furrow, a critic wrote that it was,
among contemporary collections of
short-stories, “the true companion of
While the Billy Boils.”
The comparison with Henry Lawson
has been made more than once. Brian
James was bom on Henry’s birthday,
64 years ago. His father’s selection
adjoined the Lawson selection at Eurun-
deree (N.S.W.), and Tierney, Snr.,
taught at the “old bark school” Law-
son frequently mentions. “A selector, an
Irishman named John Tierney, was
appointed schoolmaster,” wrote Henry in
his unpublished autobiography. “He
was six-feet or more and very gaunt.”
Lawson blames his bad spelling—the
MS. autobiography is full of it —on this
teaching. Brian James admits the same
fault, but blames “the mental lethargy
resulting from 40 years of correcting
pupils’ misspellings.”
Lawson put the Eurunderee of those
AUTHOR
a. , . ,
days . Vlll J yards ’ orchards, farms a
C 1 e ek with giant sheoaks, and the blue
and distant range that encircled all the
Mudgee district to the south —in verse
and Story ’ and BL has used the same
country, particularly in his Cookabundy
Bridge and Cookabundy Chronicles (pub-
hshed serially in The Bulletin). But
there are essential differences. A farm
he. once owned set Brian James writing.
He took up a patch of scrub at Glenorie
(N.S.W.), cleared it, and planted oranges,
lemons and passionfruit, but low prices
forced him to give it up, and he took to
writing.
An M.A., he’s taught in out-of-the-
way bush places, at Sydney’s Fort Street,
and in England. Now living in retire-
ment at Beecroft (Sydney), he has
orange- and lemon-trees flourishing
among big gums—a system of trenching
to bedrock prevents the gum-roots from
starving the fruit-trees.
® •
J. C. Horner, author of several
Bulletin short-stories (R.A.A.F., and
scenes of country life in Tasmania), is
going to New Guinea to lecture in Eng-
lish with the Public Service Institute.
Native of Gretna (Tas.); M.A.; he was a
navigator with the R.A.A.F. in the
Middle East, Central Mediterranean and
Burma, and returned to teaching, working
with the Tasmanian Adult Education
Board. Lately he has been talking on the
air about heroines in Australian litera-
ture, and before he goes to New Guinea
(wife and four children following later)
he will tour Tasmania for a month, lec-
turing for the A.E.B.
• * •
Sighted in Fremantle after he stepped
off H.M.S. Comus, one of the destroyers
detailed as an atom-test weather-ship,
J. E. Spence, R.N. chaplain, whose parish
extends from the Monte Bellos to Hong
Kong. His ships include the three de-
stroyers taking part in the atom-test and
10 other warships of the R.N.’s Far
Eastern Command. His biggest parish on
land was in Queensland, between 1949
and 1954, when, as Vicar of Winton, he
ministered throughout an area of 60,000
square-miles.
Roger Moxham, Adelaide manager of
the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
BANKER
has banking in his blood. His father,
H. E. Moxham, was for 25 years manager
of the Pitt-street (Sydney) branch of the
Bank of New South Wales. Roger joined
the C.B.S. in 1918, served in various
N. S. Wales branches and in Brisbane,
and, on the sporting side, played a fair
stick of golf (A-grade in Sydney and
Brisbane) and was a member of Manly
Surf Club in the days of “Boy” Charlton.
He’s been in his present job for the past
10 years and is deputy-chairman of Asso-
ciated Banks of S.A.
• •
“Myall”: Back in 1896 Henry Thomas
planted some bougainvilleas at his home
in Indooroopilly' (Brisbane). On April
14 last he celebrated his 92rid birthday
and spent the day in trimming and train-
ing the same plants he set so long ago.
Known to thousands of tourists who visit
his garden annually as “Mr. Bougain-
villea,” he conducted a party around the
many plants, giving their botanical names
and their history. The largest specimen
has a stem 18in. in diameter, with the
main branches Bin. thick, measuring 450 ft.
in length. There are, in all, 15 different
varieties, one of which, B. thomasii, was
propagated by Mr. Thomas, and is
named after him. The most popular
variety in cultivation, it is grown in all
parts of the world, even in London’s Kew
Gardens. The color of the flowers is a
beautiful deep shade of old-rose, and the
plant is one of the most vigorous of the
species. A native of Somerset, England,
Mr. Thomas arrived in Australia in 1882,
and for years ran a livery-stable in Bris-
bane on the site of Anzac-square.
Claimed to be the first Frenchman to
wave a baton over an Australian
orchestra, Jean Martinon, now touring
for the A.8.C., is resident-conductor of
the Lamoureux Orchestra in Paris. Start-
ing as an orchestral violinist, he studied
conducting at the Paris Conservatoire
with Charles Munch. He has piloted
most of Europe’s leading orchestras, as
well as those in South America and
Japan. London knows him well—he has
CONDUCTOR
just finished an extended engagement
with the 8.8. C.
Martinon is also a composer of note.
While a p.-0.-w. in Germany he wrote
“Song of the Captives,” a setting of
Psalm 137 for choir and orchestra, which
in 1943 won him the Grand Prix de la
Ville de Paris.
During his tour here he will give the
first Australian performances of two
major works of his, a symphoniette and
a symphony. The possessor of a memory
which enables him to go through the most
exacting programme scoreless, the con-
ductor has the slim, athletic figure to be
expected in one who is, away from his
music, an enthusiastic mountaineer.
Sketched here at rehearsal with the
Sydney Orchestra.
• •
Looked-in at The Bulletin office
when he was in Sydney, Tom Ronan,
winner of the Commonwealth Jubilee
Celebrations £lOOO novel-competition.
The novel, Vision Splendid (a study of
station-life from the early-’twenties up to
the first post-war changes), was published
by Cassells (U.K.) in 1954.
Tom, whose father managed stations in
northern parts of W.A., is 48, was born in
Perth and reared around Broome and
Derby, went to work on a cattle-station
when he was 15, then went with a
pearling-fleet for four years, opening
shells—£B a month and commission, but
“you could live on two-pounds a month,
and the commission added-up.” He
landed in Perth with £250 in his pocket —
“too much for a boy that age.” His
father had an interest in a cattle-station,
so he went north again, was storekeeper
when things were slack, made himself
useful in stock-camps with the turn of the
season. With the depression he went
wandering, droving and the like, was later
head-stockman on Argyle, a Durack
property about 100 miles from Wynd-
ham.
He had an ambition to go down
every stock-route in Australia, droving,
and had made a start on this before War
U. Went south to Adelaide to enlist,
was told to come back later, finally
joined the A.I.F. in Sydney, and served
in the Middle East with the 3rd Anti-
Tank Regiment. Dymocks published a
novel he wrote while he was in the Army,
and after the war he tried his hand at
freelance journalism in Sydney, wasn’t
very successful and, anyway, was sick of
city-life, so headed north again.
Managed a Durack station for three
years, and is now working for C.5.1.R.0.,
living at Katherine (N.T.). Another
novel, Moleskin Midas, will be on sale in
Australia soon.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 87, Harold C. Beavan. one
of the first Australian engineers to profit by
overseas experience in meat-freezing. Served
his apprenticeship at Mort’s Dock (Sydney),
worked with various N.S.W., Victorian and
Queensland meat-concerns, and spent 10 years
as a works-manager in Chile. On his return,
was a consultant, and was a member of various
specialist committees.


FORM WILL TELL!


ABORIGINALITIES
"D ECKONED I had the fishing-in-
comfort game sewn-up till I saw the
character unloading an old cane-chair
from his utility. The tripodlike rod-rack
made me envious, too. But it was his
final arrangement—l was a while getting
the hang of it—that was the stunner. A
demijohn of beer sprouted two tubes ;
one to a foot-pedal car-pump, the other
suspended within hand’s-reach. Elis Nibs
pulled a shady hat over his eyes and lay
back, and an occasional quiet foot-
pressure was the only discernible move-
ment all afternoon. Any fish that dared
take his bait, I’m sure, would have been
cursed for its damn’ interference. —
“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Stan”: The Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
race-club, to add novelty to its Cup meet-
ing, once included a race for camels
ridden by their Afghan owners. The
books, having no guide to form, took a
risk and opened-up with 4 to 1 the field,
an offer that was quickly accepted by
the ’Ghan punters, who all bet heavily
on their particular choice, which started
a hot favorite. It won by three lengths,
and the fielders kicked themselves when,
after settling, they learned from a polite
and smiling son of Allah that the winner
was a “leader,” and, as such, was never
"Ouch!”
in danger of being passed by any other
camel.
* * * *
“Bluey”: Touching on stocking a dam
with fish. I caught some trout and placed
them in our dam. That attracted the
blue-cranes, which, as well as cleaning-up
the fish, brought with them waterlily-
seeds. Now our erstwhile clean dam is
almost choked with the waterlilies, which
seem to grow more vigorously when one
uproots them.
* * * *
“F.A.M.”: The station-cook had left
unexpectedly, so when the old teamster
offered to make the bread the Missus
gladly accepted. Next morning, admir-
ing the golden loaves, she asked if he
had had any trouble with it. “We-ell,”
drawled the old cove, “I gets up early t’
look at ’er. I see she’s" riz too much, so
I gets me blanket and I lams inta that
dough good an’ proper. Knocks her back
till she’s just right.”
* m * *
“Ymar”: A young Wimmera (Vic.)
farmer, with his year-old kelpie, went by
car after three sheep separated from the
mob. While he was kneeling to tie the
legs of one he had caught the kelpie had
mustered the other two and worked
them through the open door into the back
seat of the car.
* * * *
“Noah”: Belatedly they’/e now sewer-
ing the thriving town of Stawell (Vic.),
to the delight of the long-suffering
citizens. The job is a big one, due to
the site being on the steep slopes of the
Great Divide, and excavations are from
the shallow to the very deep for getting
levels. One section of the community
is specially interested in the work —the
old-timers who remember the area as
one of Victoria’s richest gold-producers.
In many homes, when Mum can’t find the
washing-up dish, the culprits, found out,
all give the same assurance: “Be a bit
patient, Mum. I’ll buy you a gold-plated
one yet. There’s colors in them there
trenches.”
* » * *
“Papalangi”: Though I have seen a
Seychelles double-coconut, or coco-de-
mer, bearing a label giving Darwin as its
place of origin, “Dentonio” (B.
18/4/’56) is probably right in stating that
it has never been established anywhere
but in the Seychelles—perhaps some old
“Palmerston” pioneer can tell us? The
one I saw was only a little one —about
101 b., compared with a full-sized one of
501 b. The tree, Lodoicea seychellarum, is
the giant of the fan-palms, growing to a
height of 100 ft., with leaves up to 20ft.
long and 12ft. wide, and it has no close
affinity with the common feathery-
leafed coconut (Cocos nucifera), the nuts
of which, even under the most favorable
conditions of soil and climate, as on
Niuafo’ou (Tin-can Mail Island), are com-
parative pygmies. Lodoicea does not
fruit till it is 30 years old, and its nuts
take another 10 years to mature —hardly
a profitable catch-crop for the Island
planter.
* * * *
“Four Threes”: It’s only a few years
since horses were displaced by tractors
for goods-shed shunting-work on Vic-
torian railways. One neddy, however, is
still on the job—at the Murtoa flourmill
private-siding. A special harness incor-
porates a shock-absorber for the first pull,
which sets 60 tons of wheat moving. The
horse, knowing exactly at what speed
the trucks will have the momentum to
roll to the unloading-grid, then steps aside
and lets the trucks roll past, in much
the same way as a “kick”-shunt by a
loco. Neddy is well treated,' munches
grass between shunts and readily answers
the call for a move. Don’t think a
tractor could do better.
* * * *
“Tabba”: When he’d examined the
old bull the vet. gave me a hypodermic
and three needles, and a couple of boxes
"Now, now, Tiger, cut out that horseplay!”
of sealed jars with a very long name on
the labels. “Three times a day,” he said;
adding “You’ll ruin at least one needle
before you learn how to stick ’em in.”
He was right, and the bull soon knew it.
1 felt sorry for that bull. At first he
accepted it all right, but after a few days
it took two of us to get him into the
crush. Then, when we did get him in,
and walked round behind, he’d wriggle
and twitch his backside in despair. I
hadn’t realised a bull’s rump could wear
such a long-suffering expression!
* * * *
“Bass”: Dual-song amongst birds —
that is, a song in which there are two
or more parts taken up spontaneously
by either of a pair, or by two sections
of a community—may be more common
than I’ve found, but the only two birds
I can think of which definitely indulge
in this type of vocal effort are the magpie
and the magpie-lark (or mud-lark). The
magpie’s singing can be a marvel of
synchronisation; nobody would guess
that the separate parts were being taken
by different birds. You have to watch
the warblers closely to see that as some
reach a certain note others join in, and
sometimes the notes seem to be passed
from one to another down the line; yet
the blending is so excellent that there’s
never a suspicion of a break or an over-
lap.
* * * *
“Villefair”: I thought I’d seen a pup
in every bother that natural inquisitiveness
or boisterous blundering
could lob a pooch into,
from the foxy that followed
his juvenile master up a
ladder and marooned him-
self because he couldn’t
understand coming down
backwards, to the bitza that
wriggled into a hollow-log
after a bunny and stopped
there all night—not be-
cause he was jammed, but
simply because he couldn’t
reverse. A neighbor’s
beagle-pup. showed me a
new one. His boss returned
from a rabbiting trip with
a bunny-kitten as a pet for
his young daughter. For
accommodation, a cocky-cage was laid
on its side and bunny placed therein,
the idea being that he could eat the
grass through the wires and roll
himself along to pastures new as
required. Very soon canine howls
brought investigators in a rush. Nosey
had been doing a bit of snooping around
the cage and got himself so securely—
and agonisingly—attached to it that it
took two o£ us 10-minutes to free him ;
the hook on the top of the cage had
caught under his upper eyelid. Thirty-
seconds later he was just as foolishly
exuberant as ever.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The rapid recovery from
taipan-bite of Ram Chandra, the Mackay
(Q.) snake-expert, must be very encourag-
ing to those who are engaged in the risky
work of taipan-milking, as well as to the
staff of the Walter and Eliza Hall Insti-
tute in Melbourne who have produced
the taipan anti-venine. The snake that
bit Ram Chandra was the actual source
of the anti-venine that saved his life. In
spite of the efficacy of the vaccine,
immediate and rapid first-aid treatment
(ligaturing, deep longitudinal-cutting and
suction) is still essential, as the venom is
very quick-acting—and the anti-venine
can cure only a live person.
* * * *
“Oug”: At the outback fettlers’-camp
the boys returning from town on
Sunday night brought the local football
results: “We lost, twelve to thirty-five ;
the b s rung-in one of the old Kanga-
roos.” “By crike,” said one of the New
Australians, “bletty clever animal, kanga!
He box, too —I see heem on pictures! ”
* * * *
r T'HE Maori was an inveterate reader of
the stars ; he held them in sentimental
regard, and linked them with weather-
conditions and continued food-produc-
tiveness of forest and garden. They
were a link with the long-gone ancestors
and with the Maoris’ ancient homeland.
The risings, journeys and setting of
stars were greeted with songs or tears;
allusions to “the children of light" are
plentiful in lullabies and all their poetic
renderings. “Hither came you from the
realm of Rigel, from the assembly of the
Pleiades, from Jupiter and from Poute-
te-rangi; these, O child, are the stars
that provide food at Aotea.” A song's
first line might be “Yonder Venus
appearing above the horizon.”
The sun, the moon and the stars
(whetu ) were a happy family, dwelling in
unity, the origin of world family-love.
The moon ( hina-keha ) was husband of
all women, guardian of woman and god
of childbirth. The Milky Way, in
Maori myth, was the older star-child
guarding the rest, and a helpful indi-
cation of the passage of time at night.
Canopus kept apart from other chil-
dren of light and was tapu, for he was
one of the first-born, a guide to sea-
voyagers, and a weather-guide. Tapu-
food, songs and chants were offered
him.
Rigel, parent of Canopus, foretold the
type of season due, while Vega in the
early morning called the husbandman to
work: in the harvest-season a caller
roused the whole village, which assembled
to welcome the Pole-star.
Clouds were the modest coverings 0:
the Maoris’ primal parents, and the
Aurora Australis was the reflection ot
ancestral-fires.
Before any tribal activity— fueds,
family-unions, journeys, feasts the
night-skies were scanned for signs ana
omens, not only by the tohunga specialist
but by the majority attending.
H.W.
THE WILL
An old man's memories swirl about my brain
Now I have swept the hut. I’ll make my will,
For birds fly songless in the washed-out sky
And in dark air the cold, cold gumtrees sigh.
To you, the squint-eyed widow that I wed
And left to count your pennies by the fire,
I leave the moths around the sizzling light,
I leave a dead and parsimonious night.
And you, Jock Wilson, this is what I leave
To you whose love of horses was my own:
The tingling stars so new we slept beneath,
The campfire smoke unspun in daybreak’s
breath,
And horses on the lace-trimmed singing sand;
I leave the sunset sky carnation-red,
The close and clear-cut morning mountain
frieze
And tattooed silhouettes of soaring trees.
O Mary from the dreamy foxglove garden,
I sing my tumbling words of love too late,
You walk towards me still at evening’s oirth,
Wide-eyed with you I see the vibrant earth.
Your living elegy a night of I 'hyacinth-blue,
I give you all the light of sun-soaked days,
Oh I bequeath the paddocks apple-green,
The sun and wind that rolled through hours
unseen.
TASMANIA.
L. L. ROBSON.


■fl/HO’D be a farm-machinery sales-
’ * man? The local dealer could give
me no help, so I went digging for pros-
pects. Recognised one by the way his
ears twitched when a header was men-
tioned. He asked some good questions,
and gave leads for some wonderful sales-
blurb. When he asked the price I reached
for the order-book, the battle won. He
thought over the price, then said slowly:
“Gripes, how lucky was I! That’s thirty-
quid more’n mine cost six munce ago.” —
“Tabba.”
* * * *
“Bass”: Records of bush-birds imitat-
ing each other and other sounds are far
from “scanty” (B. 11/4/’56). Chisholm
lists something like 50 different species
(I’m quoting from memory) which prac-
tise this art; and he’d be the last to claim
that he’d exhausted the subject.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The black-breasted
buzzard and the fork-tailed kite are
certainly not our two greatest eagles (B.
11/4/’56). In W.A. either of these birds
with a wing-span of over 50in. is big for
its species, while a normal-sized wedge-
tailed-eagle will go close on 7ft. (the
record —10ft. —is held by a Victorian
bird). The female white-breasted sea-
eagle—a white-and-grey beauty found
along our coast and even well inland
along watercourses —has a wing-span of
up to 7ft., and because this species also
has a wedge-tail, until the young get their
adult-feathers they can be mistaken for
the inland bird. These two are Australia’s
biggest eagles.
\** * *
“Syd S.”: Another handicapped magpie
is the one that enjoys free board and
lodging at my menage. Having had the
"But I HAVE bathed them !”
top portion of his beak shot off by some
“sportsman,” he spears each scrap of
food with the bottom-half of his beak,
throws it up in the air and catches it
expertly with open mouth.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The really amazing thing
about the pushbike (B. 14/3/’56) is its
individuality. Though mass-produced,
every bike “rides” differently after it has
been on the road a week or two. Ride
one particular bike for any length of time
and you can tell it from a hundred others
even if you rode them in the dark. The
set of the saddle, the rise of the out-
rigger, the position of the handlebars —
these are only a few of the many things
that make a bike “feel” different.
“Wint”: The inland willy-
willy, or “cockeyed-bob,”
was a corker. We watched
it coming closer, the spiral-
ling columns of dust mount-
ing hundreds of feet into the
sky, lessening in density
where the full volume had
torn through a dwelling,
leaving a dusty havoc behind.
We noted paper, grass and
leaves, rags and big sheets
of cardboard that had been
sucked-up into the vacuum.
As each bit of debris wa.
lost to the full aerial uplift
it floated gently earthward.
All except the cardboard,
which descended in a violent,
gyrating rush, becoming
transformed in the process
into rectangles of galvanised-
iron, each piece an ambitious
airborne guillotine, look-
ing for a victim. Some
unfortunate owner had lost
a roof!
* * *
“K.F.”: “Saaedi” (B.
18/4/’56), who saw the
parent magpies giving their
almost grown-up chicks a
sharp hint to leave home
and get work, would be
interested in the flock of 11
white-winged choughs which
look to me for a big part of
their rations. Their eagerness to get
something for nothing makes them take
(out of my hand) more than they can
always eat. On such occasions the happy
and overfull one will stroll about among
the flock with a mouthful it can’t accom-
modate, seeking one of its last-year’s
progeny with the capacity to oblige.
* <¥ * #
“A.J.S.”: A rare visitor has arrived to
spend a third winter with a Norseman
(W.A.) family. A cattle-egret, it first
came to the home in April, 1953, and
remained till October before again
migrating. It failed to put in an appear-
ance in 1954, but returned again in
April, 1955. The bird is found mainly
in South Africa, Malaya and Spain, and
one was recently reported in the U.S. So
far as is known, this is the only one to
have been seen in Australia.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Early morning, and,
fossicking in dew-laden grass round the
base of a big tree, the grey-crowned
babbler quickly got a beakful. She flew
to her near-by nest, where the hefty
youngster —hanging half out of the big
stick-structure in its eagerness for break-
fast —awaited her. Load delivered, the
babbler took a few paces back and eyed
her babe. “Yahhoo! Yahhoo! Yah-
hoo!” she cried, and flapped her wings
vigorously and fanned her tail. The
display was prolonged, and at first I
thought she was merely bursting with
parental pride. In the end I decided that
she was actually imparting a little
babbler-instruction—vocal and physical
—with the morning meal.
* * * *
“Moorapi”: A Melbourne woman
bitten by a red-back spider has suffered
only mild reaction. The species, of which
the female is the dispenser of venom, has
caused 10 deaths in Australia in 40 years ;
in Europe it’s a constant menace—2oo
bites recorded in Yugoslavia in one year.
Related to the black-widow spider of
“Believe me, I'll be darned glad when Harry gives up that job
at the abattoirs !”
America, the red-back first appeared in
Australasian medical records in New
Zealand. It is still known to doctors by
its Maori name, katipo.
* * * *
“Wint”: The escaping gas from
“Baksac’s” blowlamp (B. 4/4/’56) would
be expanding, and hardly likely to ignite
a match. However, the latent heat in the
steel-shell covering the vaporising-coil in
the constricted forward part of the lamp
would do so —combustion takes place
here ; an unlighted match thrust in one
of the adjacent air-supply slots will often
fuse and relight the lamp. But if the
escaping gas were the source of ignition,
why doesn’t a match held where the gas
is hottest —near the jet-nipple—burst into
flame?
* * * *
“Sackville”: A dove introduced a
variation on “Kerba’s” kitten in trouble
with its head in a bag (B. 2/5/’56). Peck-
ing at a full slice of bread, it tried to take
the rest home intact. Something went
wrong with the grip at the moment of
take-off, and a bewildered-looking bird
halted to think things over —with a bread
collar around its neck. The decoration
was still there when the baffled bird flew
away; possibly the other doves regarded
their brother as either a fugitive from
the stocks or a Noble Grand of their
Order.
* * * *
“Bromf”: Probably jn the terrific
storm a dead branch hit Mum Peewee
while she covered the infants in the nest,
because she was dead below the tree when
we went out at daylight. Son, sent up
to inspect, reported three gaping mouths.
Pa fed them all day; then he flew off,
subsequently returning with a stepmother.
Step-ma promptly picked up each chick
and let it drop to the ground, cleaned and
relined the nest, and was ready to do her
duty. The babes may, of course, have
died while Pa went courting, but we
never had the same affection for the new
regime.
\ /
* * * *
“D.M.M.”: Behavior of sheep on
railway-lines seems to vary according to
locality. Travelling in the motor-train
from Narrandera to Tocumwal (N.S.W.)
I noticed that in some sections of the
unfenced run the driver, while continually
blowing the whistle, was keeping up a
steady 50 m.p.h. ; in other sections, with
the whistle still going, he’d reduce speed
heavily. He told me later that, from
experience on the line, he could predict
the behavior of each different mob. Some
would clear the line quickly in a disci-
plined manner ; other mobs would invari-
ably panic. He was convinced that each
mob had a collective personality which
depended on the leaders.
FRASER ISLAND LAKES
Light wind ruffles up the lake,
Setting slender reeds a-shaking,
Where the rippled waters break
Hound the marge when day is breaking;
Crow and coot and heron wake,
Fill the dawn with mournful crake,
And the cypress-needles shake
While the mystery tide is making.
Rising sun, the sandhills topping,
Sets agleam the rippled brink;
Wallabies, sedately hopping,
Pause to play and wink and prink,
Short and matted couch-grass cropping
Tender wattle seed-pods lopping,
Where, along the pads clip-clopping,
Brumbies wander in to drink.
From the scrub the pheasants call
All day long, while winging, stalling,
Black-ducks from blue heaven fall,
Wedge-formation leader’s calling
Echoing through the timber tall
Bird and beast here, large and small,
Know no fear nor care at all,
Where strange tides are rising, falling.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.
TRADESMEN ONLY
“Carpenter wanted for renovations. Good
tradesman only. Country job.”
ADS. of this sort appear often in pro-
vincial newspapers. They look in-
nocuous in print, and are quite often the
cause of a “good tradesman only” tear-
ing out the remains of his scanty locks.
The cocky—a bit vague about what he’s
in for, but satisfied he’s at last secured
a tolerable- wood-butcher —drives him
out to the job. Mum has the ideas of
what she wants done, but dimensions
aren’t her long suit and she’s hazy about
layouts, apart from one she’s seen at a
neighbor’s or in a book, and is keen to
have.
After a long discussion, cups of tea and
some compromise, Chips at last gets thw»
general idea and roughs-out a sketch.
More discussion, alterations and compro-
mise, and the thing is finalised through
fatigue on all sides. Chips then turns
architect and sets-out a plan and elevation
in dimension and appropriate design, con-
centrates on a timber-list and hunts the
cocky off to his nearest source for timber,
nails and corrugated-iron.
The carpenter can then try his skill at
moving furniture and accumulated junk
from room to room and out on to the
front-veranda. He gets to know each
piece of furniture intimately before he
finishes the job, through handling it
about a score of times.
Mum helps valiantly.
“If we’d known just where you wanted
to start we’d have had all this done,”
she explains. “Never mind, though.
Dad’ll be here to give you a hand
tomorrow.”
Dad means to, of course ; but between
frequent trips to town in the truck for
building-supplies and suddenly-urgent
business at distant parts of the farm (and
most of the neighbor’s), he finds himself
any place but where he can lend a hand
with operations.
The first real attack on the house is
tearing-off a couple of rooms. There’s a
tremendous amount of bashing, thump-
ing, crashing and dust for the best part
of two days, and the wreckage is thrown
into several untidy heaps, which Dad
realises he’ll have to sort-out and stack
away for use in the sheds . . . some day.
The main renovations on this sort of
job are bringing the kitchen up to modern
standard, with cupboards and steel-sink,
combustion-stove and hot-and-cold water,
and fitting-out bathroom, laundry and
closet for the new septic-tank. There’ll
probably be a detached shed to be built
for the electric-light plant, and Chippy
will have to put up a hard fight not to
have to use the old timber in this.
The foundations are laid and the build-
ing goes ahead, though it looks to Chippy
as if he’ll be tripping over his beard in
getting finished. If he’s the real McCoy
“country-job” man he does the plumbing,
draining, concreting, a bit of bricklaying,
plastering, makes-up some of the joinery,
and does the electric-wiring. If the job
turns-out well he finds himself booked for
many months of work in the locality if
he wants it.
By the time Chips gets his final cheque
he’s become one of the family, but his feet
are itchy from being on one job too long.
Mum’s absolutely delighted with the
amenities and set-up. Dad’s pleased as
Punch, too, as he shakes hands.
« ; Y ve done a good job, mate,” he says.
“I’ll recommend you anywhere as a good
tradesman.”
“Tradesmen,” Chips corrects, grinning
reflectively as he heads off.
BARDIE.


IT APPCtNTMiKT
<lO HER MAJESTY IK QWEIt
'fUKVEYORS Of MOTOR UJWWHN
ctWAWfiao i co. im ionooii w\
WA*
Ol l
tvfc
&
vQV)
cM*'’
mourne
J
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Management to the Test
AN economic situation which
The Bulletin predicted as
long ago as the beginning of
1955 is developing at an increas-
ing pace. Productivity is slow to
increase; costs are difficult to
restrain; overseas markets are
harder to penetrate ; prices for
our exports show a decline;
import costs still tend to rise ;
investment funds are hard to
attract, even though consumer-
spending still goes on at a high
rate; interest-rates have risen,
and have not yet stabilised.
The managements of businesses
are now being put to a severer
test. Households are fairly well
equipped with most things, and
trade in durables and semi-
durables is highly competitive.
The textile industry, on the
whole, has an excess of pro-
ductive capacity, and overseas
competition, where it breaks
through the protection of the
tariff and quotas, has a sharp
edge to it. Production for which
there is no basic and sustained
need has an uncertain existence.
In January-April, 1954, follow-
ing the tax-concessions of the
1953 Budget, and helped by a
more stable basic wage and
sustained post-war demand, the
interim divs, paid by companies
listed on the Stock Exchanges
mostly increased, and finals for
(he 1953-54 term confirmed the
interim optimism. Many bonus-
issues came along.
In January-April, 1955, there
were markedly fewer increases
in interims, and some reductions.
The year ended with patchy
trading results—some profit and
dividend increases, some losses
and some missed divs., some div.-
reductions, and some results
much the same as before.
In January-April this year
there were an increasing number
of missed divs., many reductions,
some losses reported already, and
with uncertain trading condi-
tions ahead. The losses and
missed divs. have been mostly
among the newer and less-sub-
stantial types of company, but
odd ones among bigger and
solider enterprises (mostly textile
concerns) have been forced to
reduce their divs.
Managerial judgment and effi-
ciency are now being put to the
test under fairly severe economic
conditions, the worst features of
which are increasing costs of
production and stringent credit
conditions. Some industries will
be affected also by the increased
sales-taxes which have been
imposed deliberately to curb
consumer-spending. The in-
creased cost of steel will also hit
many manufacturers, and higher
shipping freights, both coastal
and overseas, will add to trans-
port charges.
Meanwhile employment
remains at record levels. But
it will only remain so as long
as the relation between Aus-
tralian costs and those abroad
does not get too outrageously
out of balance.
A 5 p.c. Bond-rate
A N effective yield of £5 Is. 9d.
per cent., including redemp-
tion, will be available from the
seven-year securities offered in
the new Commonwealth loan
which opens tomorrow (May
10).
The loan will seek to raise
£3O million. The seven-year
securities (maturing April, 1963)
will carry 5 p.c., but will be
issued at £99 10s. The fifteen-
month securities (matur-
ing August, 1957) will carry
3| p.c., and will also be issued
at £99 10s. The effective yield
here will be £4 3s. per cent.
In each case there will be a
rebate of 2s. in the £ on Com-
monwealth - loan interest
included in taxable income.
The short-term issue is de-
signed deliberately to compete
with the hire-purchase cos. in
seeking funds, and is attractive
by comparison. Up till now
hire-purchase cos. have been
setting the pace for fixed-interest
rates.
The new long-term rate is the
highest since 1930, when 6 p.c.
was offered at par to convert
6 p.c. issues put out at a dis-
count during the borrowing
boom of the early 1920’s that
preceded the enactment of the
Financial Agreement.
A 5 p.c. yield or thereabouts
is a reasonable rate of interest
from a Commonwealth loan,
and in the present case there is
the additional appeal of the
short (seven-year) term. This
will be appreciated by those
people who are holding 31 p.c.
issues that don’t mature till
1965, and which are now below
£B6 on the market.
A New Interest Line-up
MOW that the new Comnyon-
' wealth borrowing-rate has
been fixed at 5 p.c. (effective
rate £5 Is. 9d. per cent.) for
seven-year money (against 4\
per cent, for 13 years previously),
it is opportune to call-over the
list of new interest - rates
generally.
As from April 1 bank-over-
draft rates were raised from 5
p.c. to an average of 51 p.c.,
with a maximum of 6 p.c. In
adjusting their lending-rates,
banks are to have regard to
the following principles:
Interest-rates below the average of
5| p.c. will normally be applied to
important export industries and to
new enterprises or extensions of
existing enterprises to make possible
a significant contribution to the net
balance of payments.
In cases where for reasons of
social policy concessional rates are
at present granted (e.g., to building-
societies), rates below the average of
5£ p.c. should be applied.
"Rates above the average of 5| p.c.
and up to 6 p.c. will be applied in
cases where they best restrain inflation
—for example, on loans to firms
engaged predominantly in financing
consumption expenditure more appro-
priately financed outside the banking-
system. /
Fixed-deposit rates paid by
banks were increased by 1 p.c.
from March 15, bringing the
two-year rate up to 3 p.c.
From April 1 the rate paid to
the trading banks by the central
bank on “surplus investible
funds” lodged was reduced from
15s. per cent, to ss. per cent.
This apparently was done in
order to check profits made by
the trading banks under the new
overdraft rates, these higher
overdraft rates being authorised
principally as an economic
measure designed to curb infla-
tion and encourage savings
rather than to increase banking
profits.
Rates payable on savings-bank
deposits from April 1 have been,
generally, 2f p.c. up to £lOOO and
1£ p.c. on deposits from £lOOO
to £l5OO.
The new local-government
borrowing-rate is from 5f p.c. to
£5 7s. 6d. per cent.
Steel Up Again
TiROKEN HILL Proprietary
-*-* and its subsidiaries have
announced an all-round increase
of something less than £3 a ton
in the price of steel, which
represents an average rise of
about 8 p.c.
The price-rise was heralded by
Mr. C. York Syme at the
annual meeting of Australian
Iron and Steel in April, when he
said higher steel costs could not
be avoided because of the high
cost of additional plant-capacity.
This has been taken in some
quarters as a reference to future
plant-additions; but it applies
equally to recent installations.
For a long time the Austra-
lian economy (not B.H.P. share-
holders) has benefited from the
low pre-war cost of plant used
in the Australian steel-industry.
Selling-prices throughout all
industry have had more relation
to book-value of working assets
than they have had to replace-
ment-value. And, under present
methods of depreciation-allow-
ance for tax purposes, replace-
ment, from depreciation-reserves,
of pre-war plant now wearing
out is not possible.
Since the war B.H.P. has made
mighty additions to its capital
in order to expand its plant;
and depreciation-allowances on
the new installations are far
greater than on the old. These
allowances are a legitimate
charge against the cost of steel.
The Bulletin doesn’t know
what net profit B.H.P. makes on
a ton of steel. But it does know
that B.H.P. shareholders have by
no means had a good time over
the past 15 years, and they have
not cashed-in on the war-time
and post-war appreciation of
their working assets. And basic
steel in Australia is still com-
parable in price with the
cheapest overseas steel.
The pastoralist who bought
land and equipped his property
in recent years at post-war costs
and prices will appreciate the
problem of a manufacturing
industry either setting itself up
or expanding its plant-capacity
today. The earning-rate on
current capital-outlay is nothing
like what it is on pre-war
capital-investment. The bigger
the post-war investment, the
higher selling-prices have to
become. That is assuming that
the new plant is no more efficient
than the old. Usually it is, but
not to an extent that will offset
the inflation anomaly.
Coles and Penneys
NEWS that G. J. Coles and
Co., Ltd., was negotiating
with Burns Philp and Co., Ltd.,
for the acquisition of Penneys,
Ltd., a chain-store offshoot of
B.P.’s, has kept takeover interest
simmering on ’Change. The
deal has not yet been completed,
but" it should come off. Penney’s
has 38 stores in Queensland and
10 in N.S.W.; B.P.’s have
interests in some other retail
stores under other names, but
presumably these are not
included in the deal. B.P. also
owns the Imperial Arcade in
Sydney.
The Penneys’ chain will mesh
nicely into the Coles organisa-
tion. Penneys’ Queensland stores,
particularly the main one in
Brisbane, stand out among
similar establishments in the
northern State.
When the deal is completed
the Coles chain will total 254
stores, some of them in the
emporium class.
Penneys, Ltd., has a paid
capital of £1,787,534, all held
by Burns Philp. On book-values
its net tangible assets are around
£3 million. This valuation is
likely to be conservative, in
keeping with B.P. policy.
Paid capital of G. J. Coles,
Ltd., is just under £6 million,
all but £150,000 (8 p.c. cum.
pref.) of it in ss. ords. To swing
the Penneys’ deal a payment in
excess of £5 million has been
tipped. The form of payment
has not been disclosed, but, one
way or another, the market
premium on the Coles shares
may be availed of.
Following the somewhat
premature revelation of the
negotiations, B.P. £1 scr T rc f e
55., to 555. G. J. Coles ss. ords.
strengthened slightly, ana
steadied at 17s. 9d.
Even assuming that some ot
the consideration payable
B.P is in G. J. Coles shares, a
large proportion of it is boiin
to be in non-equity form ; otne
wise B.P. would be likely
control G. J. Coles.


Holden combines the
two things now most vital
to new car buyers
(I) WAY-AHEAD VALUE
Popularity provides the best pointer to how
far ahead Holden is in value. December
1955 official registrations of new Holden
cars totalled 45,012. Registrations of the
nearest competitor were 13,917.
Holden is by far the most popular car in
Australia because it is the only car com-
bining 6 cylinder power, 21 h.p. per-
formance, 103" wheelbase, 6 passenger
room and comfort, dependability proved
under all Australian conditions.
This combination of advantages is un-
matched by any other car within £l5O of
the. price of Holden Standard Sedan —
including Sales tax at the new rate.
ASK FOR A FEATURE BY FEATURE
PROOF OF HOLDEN’S BETTER VALUE
We can show you how Holden features and
specifications compare with those of
competitors. It would be worth your while
to study the combination of power,
economy, roominess and value. Holden —
Australia’s Own Car—is Australia’s finest
value.
(2) PROVEN OVERALL ECONOMY
From hundreds of owners in every corner
of Australia, letters have come praising the
magnificent dependability and low operat-
ing costs of Holden. In all the things that
make for truly economical motoring,
Holden is outstanding.
Low First Cost. Here alone, Holden offers
you substantial savings compared with
other cars of comparable size and per-
formance. Holden is priced from £B7O
plus sales tax.
* Remarkable Economy. Many owners
throughout Australia report 30 m.p.g.
■A-Low Maintenance. This is due to the
famous dependability of Holden. Also,
when repairs become necessary, the sim-
plicity of Holden design cuts costs. Ready
availablity of low-cost, factory guaranteed
parts is a further Holden economy feature.
-A High Resale Value. Average car auction
prices show that Holden owners have a
decided advantage over owners of other
popular cars in the Holden price range.
Low depreciation combined with low
initial cost gives important savings which
you simply cannot afford to overlook.
HOLDEN* Australia's Own Car
UIST PRICE FROM £B7O PLUS TAX REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Convenient hire purchase arrangements. There are two *Air Chief 5 radios
specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
P 235
FuiUi in the
Future
\
i
i
As we busy ourselves in our daily lives,
surrounded by the incidents that come and spend
themselves and go, we are inclined to overlook the
really significant things that are happening to make
Australia a richer and better place in which to
live.
And when the subject is water-saving we
naturally are influenced by the soothing fact that
we are in a cycle of exceptionally good seasons.
But I doubt if there is one of us whose living
will not be enhanced by tests the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Organisation is making
now in the control of water evaporation.
To me this ranks with the famous soil
researches and the dramatic results won from the
addition of trace elements, as an important step
towards our full inheritance of the Australian land.
In parts of this country the rate of evaporation
is many times the annual rainfall. The Great
Artesian Basin —the 550,000 square miles in which,
except for underground supplies there would be
no cattle or sheep industry as we know it —gives
a free flow of more than 300 million gallons of
bore water every day; but an estimated 90 per cent,
of it is lost in evaporation and seepage. However,
that is another story.
The C.5.1.R.0. field trials are concerned with
the saving of surface water. They are being made
in the three eastern mainland States and in Western
Australia, to try out in large-scale tests what has
been proved already in the laboratories—that a
film produced on water by the dispersion of cetyl
alcohol causes a sharp drop in evaporation over
a long period.
Moreover, the indications are that it can be
done cheaply.
Imagine what that will mean to us in water
conservation in the future. And when it comes,
as I believe it soon will, mark it up as one more
achievement Australia owes to its faithful
scientists.
// //asf^s
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'HE most important, if not the
most sensational, single pro-
posal in Mr. Macmillan’s Budget
was that which will enable the
self-employed to provide for
their retirement.
Non - controlling directors,
salaried officials and many wage-
earners have, with the growth
of approved pension schemes,
become a privileged class. Not
only has this discrimination
affected recruitment to the pro-
fessions but it has also seriously
thinned-out the numbers of
junior partners.
The young architect or
accountant, for example, has
found that a salaried and pen-
sionable job is more attractive
than the uncertainty of private
practice where, with taxation so
high, he would need to earn a
very large income indeed to give
him the same feeling of security
about his old age. As a pros-
perous partner, his earnings
would be reduced by income-tax
and surtax and he would, in
present circumstances, be an
unusually clever man if he could
accumulate a private fortune in
the orthodox way. But a salaried
executive can “sacrifice,” by way
of premium, a considerable
portion of his salary, thus reduc-
ing his surtax liability; the
premium enjoys remission of tax
at the full standard rate, and the
executive can, at retirement, take
up to a quarter of the capital-
value of his pension as a tax-
free lump-sum —in some
instances as much as £40,000.
It is certain, though, that the
new fiscal measure will not ex-
tend to such remarkable, if
extreme, munificence. For one
thing, the annual premium will
not exceed £5OO, and, for
another, the benefits will not
include lump-sums. But the pro-
fessional man and the small-busi-
ness man will, at least, be able to
set aside tax-free sums and, ulti-
mately, to enjoy an annuity that
is taxable as earned income.
With something like six million
policyholders already covered
by pension schemes, the life-
offices are in for a boom.
“Flutter” Bonds
The only Budgetary proposal
to cause anything like a sensa-
tion is the so-called premium-
bond, intended for those who,
in the Chancellor’s words, pre-
fer the “incentive of fortune.”
You buy a bond for fl, receive
no interest but stand to win
£lOOO or less in a three-monthly
draw.
Not gambling? Oh, no!
Both Mr. Macmillan and Lord
Mackintosh, savings-chief and
a lifelong Methodist, affirm that
it is not gambling when you are
certain to get your money back.
The general opinion is that a
little bit of virtue (thrift) cancels
out a little bit of vice (gambling)
and that the idea is a good one,
especially if it will attract money
from spenders and “investors”
in football-pools. After all, the
biggest spenders are those who
earn under £lOOO a year gross.
To the Opposition it provides
delightful comic-relief the
Monte Carlo Budget, the Wind-
fall State, etc. —and enables
them to poke fun at that earthy
character Dr. Charles Hill, Post-
master-General. But whether
“Honest Charlie always pays,”
or, indeed, will ever pay at all,
remains to be seen.
For the Government to enter
the gambling industry, however
mildly, is not a step that can be
taken with conviction, their
plausible tergiversations notwith-
—
t
novelty wears off.
Already there are signs that
the scheme may be dropped. If
so , the deflationary effect of the
Budget will be not a little
reduced.
Dance Profane
There are more gu ff aws to
tbe m i nu te in the Criterion
Theatre than anywhere else in
London. Like its strange pre-
decessor, “Waiting for Godot,”
t he play is a transfer from the
semi-private Arts Theatre. Both
pi a y S have three things in com-
mon; they are French; they
have bowed ingratiatingly, if
reluctantly, to the censorial
punctilio of the Lord Chamber-
]ain ’ s office . and t h ey are the
work Q f a young producer, Peter
Hall
Otherwise, the two are widely
xhe new Dlav
1 ' w u
Anouilh s „ *. ie z .
Toreadors, is not a curious
en ’£ ma which divides an audi-
ence into two those who see,
or fancy they see, its point and
those who are cold with bore-
dom. So long as the lecherous
General St. Pe (whom we met
before, much older and nastier,
“ tbe seamy-sour Ardele )
discharges his one-track thoughts
with explosive wittiness there is
not a dull moment. In fact, the
unpredictability of what may
come next is the play s true
suspense.
The situation which provides
the title is the reappearance, 17
years later, of a lady with Whom
the General danced at an
officers’ ball at Saumur. Each
fell innocently in love with the
other, and each felt, ever after,
that a permanent union would
have purified their loves. But, if
distance has lost enchantment,
proximity certainly shatters the
spell.
The production is debonair,
witty and spiced./ Hugh
Griffith’s General has style and
obviously lacks nothing, either
in experience or in pointing a
wisecrack, and Anouilh’s crafts-
manship is remarkable for the
fullness of its effect. By play-
ing so sedulously for laughs,
the play’s more serious under-
stones are misplaced, yet there
is a certain left-handed poig-
nancy in the ending when the
General, somewhat past his
prime as a charmer, is left flat
and has to make up to the maid.
But the exchanges of pathologi-
cal hatred with his invalid wife
(played with brutal shrewish-
ness by Beatrix Lehmann) are
so unsavory as not to be reconcil-
able with tongue -in - cheek
comedy.
Indomitable Billy
“The Good Sailor” (Lyric,
Hammersmith) is the Billy Budd
story again. It is remarkable
for the virility and imagination
of Frith Banbury’s production.
This not only makes the story
credible, but also overcomes a
well-meaning but heavy-footed
adaptation. In the tensest of
scenes, the actors have to turn
aside, apparently to deliver blank
verse. (In fact, not verse at all,
but Melville s highfalutin prose.)
Some of the lines are so
effusively literary as to choke
them into silence,
The ’tween-deck scenes are
far more terrifying for their
hairy-chested virility and foul-
mouthed roughness than even
tbe odious Jemmylegs. An all-
ma j e cast of 26 is cleverly
defined> no tably the overanxious
and uncertain Middy (Christo-
, Tlor) and t he gravely
£ ified Dans ker (Norman
M ° cowan) . Leo McKern’s Clag-
. is itiless and vile; tre-
endou/y dynamic, but more
f a B J mb]e than a B i igh .
Andrd Morell > s V ere has the
look> $ hardly the touch , of a
Nelson ; the turning-point of the
court-martial, when righteous
emotion struggles against duty,
is not as moving as it should
be. If Billy Budd’s manifold
qualities are better expressed in
the imagination than on the
stage, Philip Bond manages.
without priggishness, to come
near to making him feasible.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
Y'OU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Ttustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth -
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. McDONAID.
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. MeFARLANE, C.M.G-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
{ANE of the factors the market takes
” into account in assessing the price
of ordinary, or equity, shares is the pro-
spect of a lift in the dividend-rate. It
is not therefore unduly perturbed about
the abrupt contraction of £216,639 in
the latest combined net earnings of the
Howard Smith group. The 1954 figure
(£609,064) was abnormally high, and the
£452,425 won last term was well above
average profit (£287,319) for the five
years to 1953 ; it also provided equity
cover of over 2j times for the unchanged
8 p.c. distribution, of which 1 p.c. is still
called bonus.
At 30s. (335. a year ago) the immediate
return on an 8 p.c. distribution is 5.3 p.c.,
or approximately the same as could be
had in the bond-market last week. This
is a pretty fair indication of the invest-
ment merits of the shares, which are
covered by net tangibles with a book-
value of 51s. Bd. Still, the board’s
declared intention is to steer a safe
course financially, and the four big sub-
sidiaries are still committed to substantial
expenditure on their fixed assets, which
is being met from the group’s own
resources, and should be ‘to the ulti-
mate benefit of net earnings. The shares
are thus essentially long-term, and will—
when the board considers the time ripe to
lift the div., which might not be very
far distant —no doubt prove a satisfac-
tory purchase for the patient investor.
For the most part profits come from a
large investment portfolio, in which ship-
ping, coal, steel, cement and sugar figure
prominently, and for the lesser part from
the parent co.’s own merchandising and
other activities, such as tug-owner, steve-
dore and managing-agent for subsidiary
and associated cos. The principal share-
holdings are:
Subscribed H.S.’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 158,291
Caledonia* Collieries \ 464 ’ 295 P ref - 322,215 pref.
oaieuonia* cumenes. t 1)0 23,599 ord. 869,655 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,391
B.H.P. . , , . 24,969,074 472,240
Southern Port. Cement \ pr ® f- pr j f '
l 639,885 ord. 250,701 ord.
A. Gomnan & Co. .. 298,841 61,263
The first four cos. are subsidiaries, and
the curtain is kept drawn over the
accounts of the first two of them.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests and allowing £317,893 (up
£1683) for depreciation, £167,261 (down
£168,379) for taxation, and setting aside
£53,100 against future income-tax, the
board claimed a profit of £399,325.
Including the £53,100, actual net earn-
ings for the year were £452,425 (down
£216,639):
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
t Dividends
_ „ „ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 257,473 6 p.e. 6 p.c. 136,000 122,473 2,022,944
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,783. . 2,035,727
Added reserves subsids., £447 . . 2,036,174
1952.. 380,307 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 165,000 225,307 2,261,481
Unexplained addition net, £14,771 2,276,252
To special tax reserve, £165,000 2,121,252
1953.. 473,114 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 318,114 2,439,366
To special tax reserve, £112,516.. 2,326,850
Unexplained addition, £61,991 . . 2,388,841
1954.. 669,064 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 494,064 2,882,905
Unexplained addition, £64,357 .. 2,947,262
To special tax reserve, £53,100 . . 2,894,162
1955.. 452,425 6 p.c. 8 p.e. 175,000 277,425 3,171,587
* After deducting outside interests.
No provision was made for the extra ls.-
in-the-£ co.-tax, which would call for
approximately £20,000. The net figure
would thus be £432,425, or sufficient to
cover the pref. div. and show 20.8 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 32.7, 22.9, 18.3,
12.1 and 9.2 p.c. back to 1950. And that
leaves out of the reckoning unexplained
additions to reserves totalling £64,357.
The worst of the year’s troubles
occurred in connection with shipping.
Three vessels, which had reached the
economic retiring age, were sold, thus
reducing total cargo-handling capacity,
while wage-increases, industrial troubles
and restrictive practices bumped up costs.
Three new vessels, however, are to be
added to the fleet. The first is due to
begin work next month, the second
toward the end of 1956, and the third is
on order from German shipyards under
a firm contract-price with penalty for
late delivery. Local contracts, the chair-
man says, can only be had on what is, in
effect, a cost-plus basis. So the shipping
co. will not get full benefit from its new
tonnage until 1957. Meanwhile, the
recent lift in freight-rates should help to
ease the position. A matter calling for
urgent attention by the Government is
the inadequate tax-free allowance for
depreciation—construction costs are now
over three times pre-war figures, which
means that the Government is indulging
in the unsound practice of taxing capital
as well as profits. The sugar co.’s plant-
replacement and -modernisation pro-
gramme will be completed during the
current year.
The two coal cos. earned lower but very
satisfactory profits. Invincible continued
to pay a steady 10 p.c. The Caledonian
co. wiped out its arrears of pref. divs.,
thus clearing the way for a distribution
to the ords., which for the past 28 years
have been in the wilderness. Cale-
donian’s £295,069 (down £25,018) of
profit was enough to pay a full year’s
pref. div. (£27,858) and show 26.1 p.c.
on its ord. capital. 8.H.P., which paid
8.5 p.c. in 1954 and 9.2 p.c. in 1955, sent
out an interim at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
for the current term. Altogether the
outlook for H.S. seems bright enough for
the board to abandon its ultra-conserva-
tive dividend policy.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
Tl „ 1953. 1954. ' 1955.
Pref. capital . . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. . . 2,489,366 2,882,905 3,171,587
Outside capital*.. 541,530 679,326 607,534
Deposits .. . . 21,008 21,887 10,916
Sundry creditors.. 1,210,032 1,134,665 1,266,826
Workers’ compensation 87,431 53,731 61,727
Tax provision . . 517,412 761,638 645,126
Final divs. .. 83,750 103,750 103,750
£7,100,529 £7,786,901 £8,126,466
Freeholds, etc. . . 616,843 629,892 626,341
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 2,450,256 2,840,773 8,179,188
Shares other cos.. . 1,144,047 1,144,047 1,153,047
Stocks, etc. .. 023,811 740,981 812,946
Debtors .. . . 1,140,361 1,368,245 1,639,364
Govt, securities and
cash, etc. . . 1,125,211 1,072,963 716,580
£7,100,529 £7,786,901
* Including proportion of reserves.
Last term £338,415 net was added to the
book-value of steamers, collieries, plant,
etc. To meet the outlay and carry an
extra £281,119 of book-debts and £71,965
more stocks, etc., the co. drew upon cash,
etc., for £357,383 and added £132,161 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Squatting Investment Co., Ltd.
pASTORAL scrip, although it may be
* based primarily on wool, is normally
priced to yield a higher return than, say,
sound industrials, because of the risks
involved, which are mainly seasons,
prices and costs. This 72-year-old
Melbourne-controlled Squatting Invest-
ment co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares, backed by
net tangibles with a book-value of 345.
4d., appear to be fully-priced at 295.
(325, a year ago) to return 8 p.c. on last
term’s distribution of 23.3 p.c.—33.3 p.c.
was paid for the previous year.
Certainly recent changes in the nature
of the co.’s pastoral holdings have
strengthened the position of shareholders.
But the glamorous performances of recent
.years are an unreliable guide to future
prospects of the undertaking. For the
five years to December 31, 1954, divs.
averaging 38.6 p.c. were paid from profits
averaging 63.2 p.c. (£153,812) on capital.
Last term net earnings dropped to
£56,996 —37 p.c. of the average just men-
tioned —or only £217 more than the
23.3 p.c. distribution called for. Of the
23.3 p.c. the board calls 13.3 p.c. dividend
and the other 10 p.c. bonus. The liberal
distribution was prompted by prospec-
tive returns from a new property, of
which more will be said presently.
Parallel with resumption of some of
the co.’s large leaseholds in the west of
Queensland and N. S. Wales, and conse-
quent reduction in the number of live-
stock on the books, the boom in wool and
livestock prices so strengthened the
finances that the board was able to buy
smaller freehold properties in better-rain-
fall areas without asking either share-
holders or outsiders to assist. Between
1948 and 1952. two big western lease-
holds Tondeburine (N.S.W.) and
Thurulgoona (Q.) were resumed.
Early in 1954 large areas of
Quantambone and Teryawynia, both in
western N. S. Wales, were taken for
closer-settlement; these holdings now
consist respectively of 49,027 acres of
leases in perpetuity and 103,914 acres of
leasehold expiring in 1975.
Meanwhile two freeholds were bought,
one, Murat, of 18,000 acres, in the Wim-
mera (Vic.), and the other, Burrongong,
of 22,122 acres, in the eastern
Riverina (N.S.W.). In July, 1955, all the
£90,000 of issued share-capital in
Mackenzies Pty. was bought for £266,388,
and with it Callandoon station, a 29,518-
acre freehold near Goondiwindi, in s.-w.
Queensland. It was stocked with
19,758 sheep, 1517 cattle and 72 horses,
and is in approximately a 20-inch rainfall
area. Net assets acquired had a book-
value of £148,617. In addition share-
holders had advanced the co. £108,452
and there was £31,802 coming to out-
siders. Chief asset is the freehold, in at
£220,511 (cost). For the year to June 30
last the property netted £18,292, or 7.5
p.c. on the purchasing co.’s capital. Since
this was pre-acquisition profit £lB,OOO of
it was deducted from the purchase price
in the parent co.’s books.
Excluding the new subsidiary, there
was a sharp contraction of £102,364 in
the parent co.’s net earnings last term,
due mainly to a fall in sales of livestock
(£49,642, down £100,603), which marked
the end of resumptions, and a 36 p.c.
fall in wool receipts (£126,025, down
£71,756):
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1951. .141,219 46.6 p.e. = 113,557 27,662 387,794
Surplus tax provisions, £13,028 .. 400,822
Surplus sale assets, £22,816 .. .. 423,638
War-time disposals profit, £22,861.. 446,489
1952.. 91,971 33.3 p.c. = 81,112 10,869 457,348
War-time disposals profit, £14,625 .. 471,973
1953. .101,882 33.3 p.c. = 81,113 20,769 492,742
War-time disposals profit, £14,625 .. 607,367
1954. .159,360 33.3 p.c. =± 81,112 78,248 586,615
War-time disposals profit, £12,395 .. 598,010
Loss sale bonds, £5677 .. .. 592,333
1955.. 66,996 23.3 p.c. = 56,779 217 592,550
The £56,996 of profit was 23.4 p.c. on
capital as against 65.5 p.c. and 41.8 p.c.
for the two preceding years. The £18,229
netted by the Mackenzie co. would lift
the net figure to £75,288, or 30.9 p.c. on
capital. In addition a further and final
windfall profit of £12,395 was received
on account of J.O. disposals, making
total receipts from that source £87,347.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect
the Mackenzie purchase:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Reserves .. .. 492,742 585,615 592,550
Creditors, etc 4,682 4,221 5,916
Tax reserve . . .. 86,351 99,104 42,618
Final div 64,890 64,890 40,556
£892,003 £997,168 £924,978
Stations, plant, etc. . . 488,922 469,895 468,297
Sheep, cattle, horses . . 27,568 17,765 19,579
Shares subsidiary . . 248,395
Wool unsold .. 2,820 25,013 27,000
Bonds, debtors, etc. .. 373,193 484,495 171,707
£892,003 £997,168 £924,978
To meet the net cost of the shares bought
(£248,388) and lighten the liability to the
taxgatherer (down £56,486) the co. drew
upon its large holding of bonds, etc.,
for £312,786, and is still well-ribbed
financially.
When the books closed there were
75,220 sheep on the runs, including Cal-
landoon, as against 52,150 a year pre-
viously. The current year’s result will
depend mainly on wool prices.
Holeproof, Ltd.
npHE purchase of Australian Knitting
Mills, Ltd., early in 1955, has given
Holeproof’s board a much bigger head-
ache than it anticipated. It was respon-
sible for the abrupt contraction of
£132,801 (58 p.c.) in net earnings of the
group, reducing the figure to £96,111, for
the year to December 31 last.
A.K.M. was an old-established manu-
facturer of wool and cotton yarns, under-
wear, etc., and, by agreement, made and
sold men’s socks under Holeproof’s trade-
mark “Zealon.” It had a paid capital of
£639,375, including 3750 £1 1\ p.c. prefs.,
and at mid-1954 net assets with a book-
value of £934,892. For the 12 years to
1951 the ords. received a steady 10 p.c.,
followed by nil, 6 p.c. and 8 p.c. Profit
claimed for the year to June 30, 1954,
was £73,743.
Holeproof paid £512,250 for the busi-
ness in its own scrip—four Holeproof
f.-“p. ss. ords. for five A.K.M. f.-p. ss.
ords., and the A.K.M. prefs. were
included in the deal, too. During the
year a further 36,000-odd ords. were
issued to the staff for cash. The increase
in Holeproof’s paid capital was thus
£521,334, raising it to £1,302,185 in 27,685
8 p.c. : , 50,000 6 p.c. and 410,000 5 p.c.
cum. prefs., all of £1 each, and 5,208,740
ords. of ss. each.
The negotiations and agreement were
based on A.K.M.’s last published
accounts. An audit for the six months to
January 31, 1955, however, disclosed a
loss of £168,000, due mainly to stock-
revaluation. This loss, together with
minor adjustments, was charged against
reserves, reducing the excess of net
tangibles over purchase-price at date of
take-over to £228,614, which was added
to Holeproof’s reserves. For the 11
months to December 31, 1955, trading in
the A.K.M. sector resulted in a loss of
£137,000, partly on account of the fall
in wool prices and partly because of the
dislocation and expense associated with
reorganisation and transfer of A.K.M.
manufacturing activities to Holeproof
mills. When the work is complete
A.K.M.’s old Richmond (Vic.) mill-
building is to be sold, and is expected to
bring more than its book-value.
The Holeproof parent co. and its two
subsidiaries, which together are one of
the leading producers of men’s socks,
women’s hosiery, shirts, ties, sportswear,
etc., in Australia, increased their aggre-
gate turnover and profit in a sticky and
competitive market;
Holeproof and Subsidiaries.!
i Dividends ; Nominal
t Pref. N Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 6 p.c. serves.*
£ &£/£,£, &
’51.. 130,3 16 22 1 5 3 000 13,00 0 24,926 413,277
Added reserves, £584 .. .. .. 418,816
8 p.c.
’52.. 88,787 2215 3000 15,500 41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 .. .. 410,813
Added reserves, £2752.. .. .. 413,565
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 423,565
124 p.c.
’53.. 170,047 2215 3000 18,000 66,020 604,377
From contingencies, £15,600 .. .. 619,877
Assets-revaluation reserve, £360,000.. 869,877
Reserves capitalised, £195,000 .. 674,877
Less reserve adjustment, £1244 .. 673,633
’54.. 228,912 2215 3000 20,500 71,339 805,491
Surplus absorption A.K.M., £228,6141,034,105
10 p.c.
’55.. 96,111 2215 3000 20,500 129,818 974,683
* Subject to intangibles, £21,352 at Dec. 31, 1955.
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
The £96,111 of profit was £59,422 less
than the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
called for. The drop in the div. from
\2\ p.c. to 10 p.c. was more apparent
than real, because the one-for-three bonus


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience iB of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Oompanies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
) Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
mt/ww-iK-t,-,
■.
W'y.
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SILOS
@ Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
9 Easily erected permanent
9 Rodent and weatherproof
9 Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
• Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
• Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
® Unique vertical .
filling avoids
congestion
9 Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
■ stc.f® Hki
AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£738.
WRITE for further in-
formation and Agents'
Names to Dept. No. 3
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities. SSA/S6
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—A DVT.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
K.G.H. (HOLDINGS) LTD.
Incorporating
K.G.H. Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
K.G.H. (Viet.) Pty. Ltd.
K.G.H. (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers (among other allied products) of approximately 14 per cent, of the
Australian market in Console radiograms invite you to participate in the manu-
facture and marketing of
AND
TELEVISION
RECEIVING SETS
Subscribed Capital 692,360 ordinary shares of 2/- fully paid.
NOW AVAILABLE FOR ISSUE
557,640 ORDINARY
SHARES OF
2'-
AT PAR
FULLY PAID.
P Dr P°se of the issue Is to provide further funds for the manufacture and
marketing of Television Receiving Sets throughout Australia. The company has
contracted with A. C. Cossor Ltd., well-known English Television set manufacturers
for the use of the famous “Cossor” manufacturing technique and patents.
DIRECTORS:
KEITH GODFREY HARRIS (Chairman), “Alceste,” Gladswood Gardens, Double Bay. Company
Director.
ARTHUR WILLIAM BUTTERELL, F.C.A. (Aust.) F.C.1.5., 46 Eastern Road, Turramurra.
Chartered Accountant.
BETTY MAY HARRIS, “Alceste,” Gladswood Gardens, Double Bay. Company Director.
LIONEL DARE, 8.A., LL.B., 34a Darling Point Road, Darling Point. Solicitor.
NORMAN GRANT CROOK, 67 Harrow Road, Auburn. Company Director..
SOLICITORS:
LIONEL DARE & REED & MARTIN, lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
F. F. PORTER, F.C.A. (Aust.), 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Prospectus and application forms can be obtained from:
The Secretary, K.G.H. (Holdings) Ltd., 1 Newland Street, Bondi Junction.
Applications for shares will be received only on forms contained in prospectus. The Directors
may proceed to allotment upon receipt of minimum application for 100,000 shares.
SHOULD BE OVERSUBSCRIBED THE DIRECTORS RESERVE THE RIGHT
TO ALLOT A LESSER NUMBER OF SHARES THAN THE NUMBER APPLIED FOR; IN SUCH
CASE ANY EXCESS APPLICATION MONEYS WILL BE REFUNDED.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to prospectus have not been fully
complied with) is published for information and is not an invitation to the public to subscribe.
TJ K.G.H. (HOLDINGS) LTD.,
1 Newland Street, Bondi Junction.
Please forward me prospectus.
t
NAME
ADDRESS
share-issue in December, 1954,
makes the 10 p.c. worth 13.3 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the
gift This is a plain expression
of the board’s confidence that
the A.K.M. difficulties are tem-
porary and expected to be out
of the way before very long.
For the five years to the end
of 1954 Holeproof paid ord.
divs. averaging 9.9 p.c. from
equity profits averaging 27.4 p.c.
on capital employed. Among
the secrets of the co.’s commer-
cial and financial success are the
board’s twin policy of marketing
and manufacturing research and
of keeping plant right up to date,
an expensive process, but one
which has justified itself.
The size of the financial struc-
ture greatly increased, of
course:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Ord £780,851 £1,302,185
Pref 487,685 487,685
Reserves . . .. 805,491 974,683
Outside interests.. 200,747 292,358
Mortgages . . 272,681 358,228
Overdraft .. 551,719
Creditors . . . . 481,136 604,921
Inter-co. suspense 276,352 302,882
Tax reserves l .. 521,068 513,271
Pinal divs. - .. 73,132 104,352
£3,90*1143 £0,492,283
Freehold, plant,
etc 1,740,930 2,414,732
Shares other cos. 4,075 8,085
Stocks . . .. 1,400,618 2,521,343
Book debts .. 270,563 458,652
Cash . . . . 466,605 68,119
Goodwill, etc. .. 21,352 21,252
£8,904,143 £5,492,283
* Includes provision for contingencies, etc.
On acquisition A.K.M.’s over-
draft was £703,000. The figure
for the whole group was reduced
to £551,719 at December 31 last.
A.K.M.’s contributions to the
year’s net additions to fixed
assets (up £673,802), stocks (up
£1,120,722) and debtors’ bal-
ances (up £188,809) were
£426,000, £730,000 and £llO,OOO
respectively. When the books
closed more-or-less liquids ex-
ceeded liabilities by £612,741,
and there was 10s. lid. of out-
side money in the business for
every £ belonging to share-
holders.
At 6s. 6d. (9s. 4d. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords. return a satis-
factory 7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The 6 p.c. and 5 p.c.
prefs. at 18s. 6d. and 13s. yield
6.5 p.c. and 7.7 p.c. respectively.
The well-protected 8 per cents,
seldom appear on ’Change. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
£54 6s. 3d. 6 per cents., £6 10s.
5 per cents, and Bs. Bd. ords.
War bur ton Franki, Ltd.
TNCREASED demand for the
products and services of this
45-year-old Sydney electrical-
engineering and manufacturing
business sent turnover up by 16
p.c. for the year to June 30,
1955. The co. and its two pros-
perous associates (one in Bris-
bane and other in Melbourne)
turn out electric-motors, genera-
tors, switch-gear, household-
meters and a wide range of other
electrical goods. And these
activities are supplemented by a
number of profitable agency
lines, including Philips lamps,
fluorescent - lighting, radio-
players, Docker’s electrical tools,
and General Motors refrigera-
tion units —domestic-refrigera-
tion is a highly competitive field
at the moment.
After allowing £16,642 (up
£2507) for depreciation and
£35,000 (tip £5000) for taxation,
net earnings benefited by £5943,
reaching £61,825:
, Dividends Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1950. .67,235 174 174 88,437 118,495
1951. 174 174 40,625 148,284
1952.. 71.345 174 174 43,760 176,879
1953.. 61.515 15 15 37,500 199,894
From inner reserves, £12,168 212,062
Assets revalued, £70,590 . . 282,652
Unexplained addition, £6OOO 287,652
1954.. 55,882 15 15 37,500 806,034
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 256,034
Share-premiums .. £25,000 281,034
1955.. 61.825 124 124 39,583 303,276
The £61,825 was 19.5 p.c. on
average capital (pref. and ord.
combined) as against 22.3, 24.6,
28.5 and 30.3 p.c. back to 1951.
The div. was lowered from 15
p.c. to 12£ p.c., but the lower rate
is worth 15.2 p.c, after allowing
for the September, 1954, one-
for-five bonus share-issue
(£50,000). There was a simul-
taneous cash-issue of 50,000
new £1 ords. at a pre-
mium of 10s. each. These
two issues lifted paid capital to
£350,000, including 20,000 £1
7 p.c. cum. prefs., which advance
with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate and share in
surplus assets.
Efficiency in other sections of
the engineering trades depends
partly upon prompt supply of
the electrical equipment, etc.,
which this Warburton Franki
Co. turns out. Since the close
of last accounts turnover has
been running ahead of that for
the corresponding period of
1954-55, and the order-book is
currently well ahead of output
on the manufacturing side. To
help meet the cost of additional
plant and provide more working
capital, those on the register at
April 3 last were offered 70,000
new £1 ords., this time at par.
When all the money on this lot
is in, paid capital will be
£420,000, on which 12% p.c. will
call for £9352 less profit than
was won last term, or only 7.2
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined).
Vigorous growth of the busi-
ness is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £20,000 £20,000
Ord 230,000 330,000
Reserves . . .. 306,035 303,276
Overdraft .. .. 181,685 181,957
Creditors, etc. .. 184,278 208,869
Staff funds .. 11,873 14,000
Final diva. .. 21,875 21,875
£955,746 £1,074,977
Freeholds, plant. . 170,816 203,409
Shares .. . . 116,756 115,756
Stocks . . . . 389,350 435,313
Debtors . . . . 273,906 306,011
Due to subsidiary 6,558 14,128
Cash .. .. 365 365
£955,746 £1,074,977
To meet the year’s net outlay of
£32,593 on plant, etc., carry an
extra £45,963 of stocks and add
£32,105 to debtors’ balances, the
co. gathered £75,000 in capital
and premiums from share-
holders and increased the
amount coming to trade credi-
tors by £19,591. The surplus
of current over liabilities was
£64,648 higher at £334,111.
At 355. ex rights, the f.-p. £1
ords. return 7.1 p.c. on a 12£ p.c.
div. basis, which is reasonable
by current standards. An interim
at the rate of \2\ p.c. has been
paid in respect of the current
term, and, subject to the usual
qualifications, a return to a 15
p.c. div. basis looks like a reason-
able long-term prospect. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is 345. sd. all shares.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
A month or so ago the chair-
man, G. R. Fisher, announced
that the board was considering
construction of a copper-refinery
at Stuart, near Townsville
(N.Q.). Since then Copper Re-
fineries Pty., Ltd., believed to be
a subsidiary of Isa, has been
registered in Brisbane with an
initial capital of £lOO,OOO in £1
shares. Among its objects is
the refining of minerals of all
types.
Australia needs additional
copper-refining capacity. Thous-
ands of tons of blister copper
turned out by the big new
smelter at Mt. Isa —now produc-
ing at the rate of over 23,000 tons
per annum r — have been exported
for treatment, and then the
refined article has been shipped
back for sale in Australia.
And, despite the big silver-
lead-zinc and copper deposits in
its present leases, the co.ss on
the hunt for new finds. A few
weeks ago it was granted two
authorities to prospect, one foi
silver-lead-zinc and copper ores
over about 188 square miles
some 25 miles north of the
present Isa leases, and the other
to hunt for a possible continua-
tion of the existing copper-lode
a mile or two south of Isa.
For the year to June 30 last
the co. paid a 25 p.c. div. from
profits equal to 57 p.c. on its
£5,757,312 of share-capital. The
price of the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares,
which keep fairly well in step
with prices in the metal markets,
has dropped from 275. to 225. 7d.
over the last couple of months.
The Queensland Minister for
Mines, J. McCathie, has granted
two cos. authority to prospect
for zircon and other mineral
sands along the eastern coastal
belt in the north of the State.
Metals Exploration, N.L., is to
examine about 21 square miles
of foreshore extending from
Cape Direction to the mouth
of the Olive River, and Aus-
tralasian Oil Exploration, Ltd.,
is to prospect a 90-square-mile
strip from Cape Melville north
to Cape Direction.


Womem's Letters
MELBOURNE
Gifts were exchanged by Lord Mayor
Sir Frank Selleck and Captain G. G. O
Gatacre, of H.M.A.S. Melbourne, at the
reception given in honor of Captain
Gatacre and the complement of the new
aircraft-carrier to mark the occasion of
the ship’s first visit to the port. The Lord
Mayor gave a plaque, suitably inscribed ;
Capt. Gatacre presented the Lord Mayor
with a photograph of H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne, framed with wood from the
v former Royal yacht Victoria and Albert.
On the dais with the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress were Mr. Arthur Calwell
and Minister for Transport A. G. Warner
(who represented the Premier).
Lady Selleck wore a silver-grey faille
frock, a blue-mink stole and a small
matching toque. Mrs. Warner added to
her pale-grey frock a blue-mink stole and
small white head-hugging hat. Mrs.
Gatacre’s beige suit was horizontally-
striped in brown ; her wide scarf was of
ranch-mink, and her beige-felt sailor-hat
was encircled with brown marabout.
# # V
Designed by June Myers, a lovely
collection of cotton frocks from Harold
Grigg was shown at the Australia. There
were gay prints, smart woven patterns,
plain pastels, printed-nylons, embroidered
plisse and dainty hailspot-nylons. Skirts
were mostly full, with large patch-pockets
giving further emphasis to fullness.
An Arabian Nights tale was told in
rich Oriental colors in one cocktail-
frock, cut on sheath-lines and with a
smart double-peak shoulder-line. Queen
of the Nile was the name given to another
cocktail-frock, a print with an Egyptian
frieze-motif in golds, yellow, orange and
brown ; this had one shoulder bare.
The designer’s daughter, Sandra,
appeared as a mannequin for the first
time in this parade ; one of the pretty
frocks she modelled was an embroidered
blue hailspof-nylon teenage frock. The
bodice was simple, and the full skirt was
threaded with lipstick-pink organza at
the lowered waistline. A new feature on
many of the frocks was the “high, shy
neckline.” Another teenage frock, called
Buttons and Bows, had the bows centred
with a large matching button round the
full skirt just above the hemline ; it was
of golden-moss pure-silk shot-organza.
Olympiad, a printed cotton, featured an
outline map of Australia centred with the
Olympic-torch. Another admired frock
was a grey-and-white-striped pique, with
white bobble-fringe trimming the bodice
and swirling around the full skirt.
V V
A box of chocolates for milady and a
carnation for her escort’s buttonhole were
gifts from the management of the
Princess Theatre on the gala night which
celebrated the 200th performance of
“Kismet,” at the conclusion of which
the audience tossed colored streamers on
stage and hundreds of colored balloons
drifted from the ceiling.
In the audience were Mrs. Garnet
Carroll, whose short frock and full-length
matching-coat were of Ming-blue satin ;
Mrs. Rupert Downes, who topped her
black gown with a lovely Chinese-coat
in turquoise satin patterned in gold ; Mrs.
Ronald Marriott, the Arthur Haworths
with their schoolgirl daughter George-
Anne, Mrs. Charles Burge, Mrs. Lou
Green and Mrs. Ronald Nott and her
sister Betty Smith.
* ☆ ☆
Douglas Cox’s showing of fashions for
next spring are, both in fabric and sil-
houette, Orient-inspired, with cottons
glamorous yet simply-styled. A feature
is the special attention given to the
woman of large figure. Colors include
Oriental-poppy (red), Peking-pink, green-
tea, Buddha - brown, bamboo - beige,
Baghdad-blue, exotic-apricot (orange),
Sphinx-lime, Kismet-glow, Persian-grey,
mosque-gold, and sultan (black).
One of the most exotic prints seen in
the parade was a design of Barbary-
apes swinging on a green-forest back-
drop. The frock was sleeveless, with a
closely-curved bodice covered with a deep
shawl-collar. The arched-skirt swung
out from a centre-panel. Blue moons
were patterned on a Baghdad-blue pique
teenager frock. A petal-neckline was
highlighted on the sleeveless bodice, and
the full skirt swirled out from a pleated
cross-over cummerbund. Suitable for
all sizes was a cotton shirtdress with a
softly-gored skirt, printed in a flower-
design taken from an old Persian tapestry.
Oriental lanterns in gay colors were
scattered over a sheath-frock, with the
decollete at back and front covered with
a tiny jacket. Breeze-from-the-East was
the name given to a sleeveless, closely-
curved sheath-frock in Burmese-blue and
white. A “jackelet” topped the sleeveless
bodice. East and West met in a flower-
and-bayadere print, with the Oriental
influence shown in the tight-fitting
sleeveless bodice. As always, navy-and-
white is popular ; one frock in this color-
combination was made with the long
torso and a fishtail-skirt that fell in a new
way from a hip-yoke.
To say goodbye to the many friends he
and his family have made in this city
the Consul for the Republic of China
(Mr. T. W. Liu) gave a late-afternoon
party at his Hawthorn home. With his
wife and son (who is now at the Univer-
sity) Mr. Liu has been here for five years;
he is leaving to join the Ministry
of Foreign Relations in Formosa. The
party also served to introduce his suc-
cessor, Mr. K. Y. Leung, who has come
from Hong Kong.
Madame Liu, receiving the guests, wore
a lovely national costume of black-and-
silver brocade. Among the guests were
Minister for Immigration Harold Holt
and his wife, Deputy-Leader of the
Opposition Arthur Calwell and Mrs. Cal-
well, Sir Charles and Lady Lowe, Legis-
lative Council president Sir Clifden Eager
and Lady Eager, Mr. and Mrs. A. T.
Smithers, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Strange,
Sir Frank and Lady Beaurepaire, U.S.
Consul Givon Parsons and Mrs. Parsons,
Mrs. John Mack (Mt. Macedon), Asst.
U.S. Naval Attache Lieut. Robert Brum-
sted and his wife, and Queensland Gov-
ernment representative Mrs. T. J. Ryan.
Daughter of John and Patricia Casson
and granddaughter of the famous
theatrical pair Sir Lewis Casson and
Dame Sybil Thorndike, Penny Casson
declined a scholarship at the Church of
England Girls’ Grammar School to take
up nursing. She is now in her first year
at the Alfred Hospital.
Ada-of California showed a range of
swimsuits and cotton frocks in a pre-
view at the Hotel Australia. Fabrics
from Australia, England, France, Hol-
land and Switzerland were used. All
swimsuits, as well as the sunsuits, incor-
porated a built-in bra, boned, and with
a nylon-foam support. It was a typical
Australian range, gay, bright, light and
feminine. One attractive swimsuit
named Riviera was of white lace over
lipstick-pink, and it had its own matching
short coat. Shells and fishes were printed
on a cotton swimsuit, and there was a
frock of cotton-poplin embossed with
nylon. This fabric was tested for sea-
water and chlorinated-water before it
was used, and the flock will not come off.
SYDNEY
A busy week this, with fashionable
gatherings including the Coral Sea Ball,
The King’s School “old boys’ ” dance,
the Cranbrookians’ cocktail-party, the
premiere of “The Dam Busters,” and
a good quota of weddings.
q v
Sydney’s musical world was very
strongly represented at the marriage of
singers Marjorie Conley and Geoffrey
Chard at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on
Saturday. Both bride and ’groom are
well known for their work in opera and
on the concert-platform. The bride, who
has won practically every major vocal-
contest for which she’s been eligible in
Sydney in the past four years, looked
very lovely in white delustred satin
trimmed with guipure-lace. Matron-of-
honor was the bride’s sister, Dr. V.
O’Hara, who came from Brisbane for
the wedding. The reception for 140
guests was held at Glen Ascham. After
the honeymoon Mr. and Mrs. Chard will
leave for Melbourne to start rehearsals
with the Elizabethan Theatre Opera
Company, and at the conclusion of the
Australian tour will go abroad to
continue their musical studies.
Beautiful Ursula Jeans, distinguished
English actress at present in Sydney, is
the wife of Roger Livesey, with whom
she will star in “The Reluctant
Debutante” at the Theatre Royal, opening
on May 18. It is interesting to note that
Miss Jeans is appearing in the film “The
Dam Busters,” which had its gala-
premiere in town during the week.
Sunshine flooded the grounds of St.
Joseph’s College on Saturday and
poured in through the stained-glass win-
dows of the chapel for the marriage of
Margaret, eldest daughter of the
N. C. L. Nelsons, of Gordon, to
Michael, only son of Mr. and Mrs. E.
Norsa, of Canberra. The bride’s
classically simple dress of white satin
was matched by a satin, pearl-trimmed
curvette, which held her fingertip tulle
veil. Her sisters Kathleen and Dominica,
in pink shantung ballerinas with
accordion-pleated skirts and tiny pink
feather-caps, attended her. The bride-
groom’s attendants were Benedict Ng
and John Callaghan. The young couple
will sail early in July for England, where
Michael, who recently graduated with
honors in engineering, will take up a
scholarship-appointment at Luton.
☆ ☆ *
The wedding of Janet Beveridge and
Peter Wilkinson at St. Philip's Church on
Thursday attracted many country guests
from Wagga, Cootamundra and Gun-
dagai, as the bride is the second daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. F. Beveridge, of Billa-
bong North. The bridegroom is the
eldest son of the late Mr. P. Wilkinson
and of Mrs. Wilkinson, of Wollstone-
craft. The bride’s dress was of white
faille cut on Princess-lineSj the flat bows
on the sleeves being repeated at the sides
of the tiny cap which held her veil.
Matron-of-honor Mrs. Graham Elliott,
and bridesmaids Susan Triggs and Jan
Burt, wore dresses of blue chiffon. Best
man was John Wilkinson, and Bob
Packham and John Ramsay were the
groomsmen.
☆ ☆ ☆
Long streamers in blue-and-white —the
Air Force colors —stretched from the
centre of the Trocadero to the four
corners of the room at the Coral Sea
Ball, held by the Australian-American
Association as part of the Coral Sea
Victory celebrations of the week. Lieut.-
General James Doolittle and Mrs. Doo-
little were guests-of-honor, Mrs. Doolittle
wearing a dress of black nylon. Mrs.
lan Jacoby, president of the ball-
committee, wore a dress of white Chan-
tilly-lace over pink tulle and draped an
Arctic-fox stole around her shoulders.
# # #
Mother’s Day on Sunday reminds us
how beautiful is the word “mother” and
how unbeautiful, in itself, is the word
“mum.” Yet most Australians call their
mothers “Mum.” (A few go on calling
her “Mummy” after childhood has
passed, but this is strictly upper-class.)
Webster’s gives “mum” five meanings.
It can be “silent, not speaking” (very
inappropriate); “a strong ale” (not a
suitable association) ; , “a muttered
sound” (this one is Scottish, and a little
nearer the mark); “short for chrysanthe-
mum” (probably explains the price of
white chrysanths on Mother’s Day); and
“an abbreviation of madam” (which
gives mothers who dislike being addressed
as “Mum” the right to say, “Call me
madam”).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Dragon Festival Ball will be held
at the Trocadero on Tuesday, June 5.
Proceeds this year go to the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children, the Adult
Deaf and Dumb Society of N.S.W. and
the Chinese Warphans Fund. During
the evening 15 Chinese debutantes will
be presented to the wife of the Consul-
General for China, Mrs. S. H. Sih.
President of the committee for the ball
is Mrs. W. H. Oong.
☆ ☆ &
Mothers who have been told by their
husbands and fathers of the horrors of
Army tucker may apparently set their
minds at rest about their sons. Reports
from Holdsworthy Training Camp are
not only satisfactory, they are enthusi-
astic. “It’s good stuff, and there’s plenty
of it, too,” said one trainee to an anxious
parent. And, believe me, when a growing
boy says there’s plenty, there certainly is!
# ☆ ☆
The Dominican Et-Students’ Ball will
be held at the Trocadero on May 24,
when five schools will be represented and
the debs will make their curtsy to the
Dominican Prior, Rev. Father O’Brien,
O.P.
if if Q
The 20th annual conference of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme will be
held on Tuesday, May 15, and Wed-
nesday, May 16, at the State Ballroom.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott, will
be present, and the chairman will be Dr.
G. Moncrieff Barron. Addresses on
“Mosaic of Modem Medicine” and
“Children and TV” will be given by Sir
Charles Bickerton-Blackburn and Mrs.
John Metcalf respectively, and there will
be a screening of the new Far West color-
film “A Dream Come True.”
# &
Nature must get very annoyed with
science sometimes. One would have
thought she had made a pretty good job
of packaging the egg. It’s fragile, to be
sure, but nothing could be neater or more
pleasing to the eye. Yet in America
they’ve worked-out a scheme for selling
shell-less eggs in plastic containers. What
the advantages are have yet to be proved.
The eggs may keep longer, but there is
no certainty that they will be cheaper.
The only real progress is that you can
now make an omelette without breaking
eggs.
☆ ☆ ☆
If you want to know whether some-
thing is “worth the money,” just divide
the price by the number of times you will
use it. A handbag at £2 which doesnt
match your clothes and spends its life in a
drawer is very expensive. A handbag at
£8 which goes to town .every day with
you for a couple of years is really cheap.
it it v
Mrs. John A. Lander, of Boondilla,
Darlington Point, has been elected State
president of the Country Womens
Association of New South Wales. There
is a long tradition of “land” on both sides
of Mrs. Lander’s family. Boondilla,
which is more than 400 miles from
Sydney, is her own family-property, ami
since the death of her husband in 195-'
has been managed by herself and hei
three sons. She has a family of six, three
boys and three girls, two of the latter
being still at boarding-school.


Divorce Notices
TO ALLEN ERNEST PARKER of
unknown address.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife EILEEN MARGARET
PARKER has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of desertion If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within forty
clear days from the date of this publi-
cation In default of your so doing the
ease may proceed and the Court wil 1
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this Ist day of May, 1956. J. E.
SHILLINGTON, Acting Registrar.
RICHARD S. HAYNES & CO., of 66 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN WILLIAM RAY SUTTON
late of “Woodview” 2 Hyacinth Street
Asquith.—TAKE NOTICE that MARION
VIOLET SEYMOUR SUTTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 922 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 13th July 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
PENNINGTON k PENNINGTON, Soli-
citors, of 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOL'GHAN, Registrar.
TIT
r ...
1
""S
"'Vt
OODDOO
&
b o
H n QQQ
o
f*"
t*
SgJ?
y
□33
nnn
rrr\
iv/'
nrn
rr-n
onn
rW'
iYY>
f 6
AVIATION
OS
SERVICE,
(?o
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
SUNDRY
Artbursts
Murch in Brisbane
Some curious white nudes are
the most interesting develop-
ment in a show for the Moreton
Galleries, Brisbane, by Arthur
Murch. All Nordic nudes are,
of course, whitish; but these
are white as chalk.
They look like the preliminary
lay-ins for studies into which
normally he would have painted
his warm golds and reds ; and
while one misses the color, they
have the advantage of displaying
to the full his sculptural quali-
ties of composition and model-
ling. The effect, particularly in
“White Light” and “Study in
Yellow” —his favorite theme of
mother-and-child on the beach
—is unusually delicate.
For contrast with these, the
small painting “Evening Tub,”
of a woman in crimson dress
bathing her child by the light
of a fire, glows with an extra-
ordinary richness of color.
Though the paint looks as if it
had been worked-on more than
once, it is a rare, an exquisite
little painting, alike in the gentle-
ness of the mother, the child’s
amusing absorption in its bath-
water and the dusky incandes-
cence of the color enfolding
them.
Small landscapes such as
“Ponte Greve” and “Sketch,
Richmond Valley,” a rather
muddled but vivid flowerpiece, a
warm portrait of an angophora
and larger compositions such as
“Path from the Beach” make
a rich and varied exhibition in
which, if “Evening Tub” is out-
standing, nothing is without
Murch’s distinctive quality.
* * *
Leonard Long
The best three paintings in
Leonard Long’s exhibition at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries —
“Evening,” “Backwater, Crook-
haven River” and “Early
Autumn”—are all concerned
with the day’s end.
Whether the far greater
strength and charm he displays
here are due to the weight of
shadows, contrasting with the
general overbrightness of the
other paintings, or whether it is
that dusk induces in the artist a
heightened sensitivity of mood,
and consequently keener obser-
vation, is an open question.
Probably both explanations are
simultaneously and equally
valid.
At any rate the trees in “Early
Autumn,” floating in light
against the massive shadows of
the ridge in the background, are
painted with exceptional fidelity
and grace; the dark hill of
“Evening” gives a feeling of
depth to this admirable little
landscape; and “Backwater,”
one of the most ambitious can-
vases he has attempted, is quite
striking, not only in the charm
of evening light on water but also
in the careful —though never
fussy—observation of the reeds
in the foreground.
Though patches of excellent
painting are still to be found,
like the three white gumtrees in
“Along the Mitta Mitta,” too
many of the remaining land-
scapes are essentially superficial ;
sometimes attractive-enough at
first glance, but—-without subtlety
of tone and color; with
skies too implacably white and
mountain-edges too hard; with
easy formulas for earth and rock
and tree; with the paint every-
where too obtrusive —not finally
satisfying, still less exhilarating.
The effect is of the countryside
as the average man sees it; not
of a revelation. ,
♦:« * *
If architect Alexander Smith
gets the same sensitive quality
of line into his buildings as he
does into some of his water-
color drawings exhibited at
Kozminsky’s, Melbourne, they
should be very pleasant indeed.
His stretches of beach and ocean
are quiet and unpretentious, and
it is Nature’s ideas he is con-
cerned with. He produces
pictures as pleasant as their
subject, except where he deals
with shipping. A ship, like a
house, is man’s work, and he
becomes more factual and
apparently starts thinking like
an architectural draughtsman.
Sydney’s South Strathfield
attracted over 100 watercolors
to its first annual art-exhibition,
first-prize of 50gns. going, fairly
enough, to the sunlight and
shadows of Elsie Dangerfield’s
“Old Sydney.” One also noted
Hal Boyer’s “Boree Tree” on
the edge of a red road, Clif
Peir’s excellent figure-arrange-
ment in “Gossip at Ronda,
Spain,” sea and skyline in Betty
Rowe’s “Bungan Head,” the
swirl of perpendicular move-
ment in Audrey Russell’s “Tree
Without Bark,” Maximilian
Feuerring’s “Cooper Park,” and
J. R. Kirkland’s “Gateway to
the Valley.”
* *
Kuringai Municipal Council
(Gordon, N.S.W.) is to hold an
art-competition as part of its
jubilee celebrations in June this
year. A total of £253 is offered
in prizemoney, made-up of
lOOgns. for the best oil and
75gns. for the best watercolor,
with smaller prizes for artists
under 18 years. Closing dates
are June 8 and June 9 ; details
from the council.
Stage and Music
Martinon
French conductor Jean
Martinon went to the other side
of the Rhine for most of the
music he presented at his first
concert with the Sydney
Orchestra. The one wholly
Gallic work was Rameau’s
■‘Paladins” Suite No. 1, a not-
too-distinguished piece played
rather stiffly.
Haydn’s last symphony, the
101st, found the orchestra much
more responsive. This warm,
mellow, bustling music—reflect-
ing the composer’s amiability
and optimism brought lilting
exuberance from the upper
strings and perkiness from the
woodwind choir.
Brahms’s Haydn Variations
(now called the St. Anthony
Chorale Variations since the dis-
covery that one of Haydn’s
pypils, and not the master him-
self, wrote the divertimento on
on which the theme is based) was
given a generally felicitous read-
ing, though greater rhythmic
vigor could have been imparted
into the fifth and sixth variations.
The conductor found his true
metier in Ravel’s brilliant trans-
cription of Moussorgsky’s “Pic-
tures at an Exhibition,” in which,
working on his forces with great
zest, he produced capital effects
in a series of keen-edged musical,
portraits.
X * *
Pascal Quartet
French chamber-music players
Jacques Dumont (first-violin),
Maurice Crut (second-violin),
Walter Gerhardt (viola) and
Robert Salles (’cello) made a fine
impression on their first visit
to Sydney last year, and the first
Sydney concert of their second
tour —an all-Beethoven pro-
gramme—served to strengthen
that impression, particularly in
the closing movement off the
third “Rasoumovsky” Quartet.
This dazzling fugue was played
with splendid verve, tempered
with refinements and lit with a
beautiful singing tone.
The Quartet Op. 18, No. 6
obviously owing much to the
influence of Haydn and Mozart,
but with the embryonic strength
of the later Beethoven shoring-
up the 18th-century graces and
elegance brought out trans-
lucent theme-weaving and a
delicate balance between the
instruments.
“Major Barbara”
Although Australia narrowly
missed-out on producing Donald
Wolfit (B. 21'/3'/’56), Brisbane,
at least, receives some compensa-
tion in the visit of his daughter
Margaret, who was able to
appear in the title - role of
Shaw’s “Major Barbara,” put on
by Twelfth Night Theatre.
It was interesting to note that,
whereas Donald Wolfit generally
commands the stage by magni-
ficence of gesture and a declama-
tory style in what one supposes
must have been the Irving
manner, his daughter’s Major
Barbara dominated the play by
a quiet assurance that welled
from an understanding of the
essence of Christian love. It is
this inner knowledge that makes
Barbara reject the misguided,
materialist-tainted fervor of her
commanding - officer, who is
delighted to accept liquor- and
armament-profits to further
charitable works.
Against the professional ease
of this performance it was diffi-
cult to assess the other por-
trayals, although this commenta-
tor felt that Lon Jones has never
done better than his Bill Walker,
the “rough customer” in the
Army-shelter.
V. V.
Talkies
“The Night My Number
Came Up” (Sydney State): This
Michael Balcon thriller, based
on actual incident, concerns a
British naval commander’s vivid
dream about a disaster to a
Tokyo-bound plane and the way
the dream worked out. Tightly-
knit, imaginatively directed and
suavely acted, it has Michael
Redgrave, Alexander Knox and
Denholm Elliott in the top roles,
and is a first-rate chair-gripper.
“There’s Always Tomorrow”
(Sydney Lyceum): Intelligent
problem-story in which a
middle-aged manufacturer, with
an aloof and efficient wife, seeks
consolation with his chance-met
ex-secretary, still single and now
a successful career-woman. Fred
Mac Murray, Joan Bennett and
Barbara Stanwyck work it out
satisfactorily, and Pat Crowley
as a sensible young girl gives
solid support.
“The Left Hand of God”
(Sydney Mayfair): Humphrey
Bogart, a flyer captured by a
Chinese bandit-chief during the
Civil War, becomes the .bad-
man’s second-in-command, then
deserts, wearing the habiliments
of a Catholic priest slain by the
bandits. He casts-up at a mis-
sion, decides not to let the poor
heathen Chinee down, and
takes on unauthorised sacerdotal
duties, always with a roving eye
on pretty mission-nurse Gene
Tierney. Slow and highly im-
probable.
“Lucrezia Borgia” (Sydney
Paris): History is horribly
hashed in this Franco-Italian
production, the main object in
which seems to have been to get
Martine Carole as much out
of a dress as possible. The lady
hams the title-role unmercifully,
and the Italian who plays Cesare
depicts him as a sadistic monster.
Sole merits, are rich trappings
and superb settings in tasteful
color.


The Amphibious Mattress
By "DRIFTWOOD FOURWINDS"
Maski sparks was
what is called in Aus-
tralia a ratbag, or in
New Guinea a long-
long. If you are unacquainted
with either idiom, they both
more-or-less mean a lunatic.
His appellation “Maski,” which
is the Melanesian-pidgin word
for “never mind,” had been
given, him by the planters and
traders of the Pacific island of
South Sussex because of his
incorrigible trait of regarding his
disasters with the lightest of care-
freeness. It was perhaps kindest
that Maski possessed this
characteristic, for disasters
followed him as' inevitably as
paddle-flurries followed in the
wake of an outrigger-canoe.
At one time Maski bought
himself a high-speed outboard-
motor for his canoe so that he
could be independent and in the
calm season visit Kamerang
whenever he felt the urge. He
proudly unpacked the engine
from the cratp, filled the fuel-tank
and screwed it to his canoe. The
exhaust barked with power at
the third pull of the cord and
with jubilant expectation Maski
steered for the edge of the reef.
An unexpected wave curled up
and swamped the canoe.
Maski swung overboard to
lighten the load and retrieve his
tobacco-tin that was floating
astern and found to his
stupendous consternation that,
although the canoe was filled and
mostly underwater, its buoyancy
kept the motor high and clear.
Roaring merrily, it was push-
ing the canoe at two-knots out
into the wide ocean.
Maski threshed after it madly
but could not match the pace.
By the time he had reached the
shore, gasping, had hunted in a
frenzy for another canoe, had
in a rage dispatched 30 boys to
locate a shovel to use as an oar
and, paddling furiously, had
finally embarked out to search,
the fugitive canoe, with five
hours’ fuel in its motor, was well
on its way out into the Pacific.
And Maski never heard of it
again.
When he recounted this anec-
dote in the Kamerang hotel to a
delighted audience, he flipped his
hand casually and chuckled
“Maski!”
On the previous New Year’s
Eve Maski had attended a fancy-
dress ball at Kamerang disguised
as a New Guinea boy—blackened
from scalp to toes and dressed in
only a laplap. In the dim light
outside the Club entrance he had
encountered Norm Willesden.
just arriving. Maski gleefully
called “Master!” to draw his
attention and then swung a swift
bare foot forcefully into the seat
of the other’s “pirate” bloomers.
Norm, who was just as tall as
Maski but considerably wider,
outraged at the temerity of the
crazy “boy,” swung a fist that
broke Maski’s elongated nose
and laid him prone on his spine.
When Maski recovered, he felt
his nose tenderly and grunted
“Maski!”
On one of his impetuous
whims, Maski shifted his bunga-
low from its long-accustomed
position by his beach up to the
edge of a cliff where on his
veranda of an evening he could
sip beer and enjoy the glories of
the sun drowning in the Pacific.
A week later, a guria born
somewhere underneath Rabaul’s
five volcano cones rumbled
along the seabed to Maski’s
miniature island; and when
Maski came hurrying in from the
plantation’s back areas to see if
the tremor had knocked down
any crockery, he found that a
section of the cliff, complete with
his bungalow, was reposing
beneath the waves in the deep
turquoise bay below. Maski
stood on the torn edge and dis-
mayedly peered over. After a
while he gasped rather weakly:
“Maski!”
Maski was tall and spindly like
one of his own coconut-palms,
and topped by a fiery red thatch.
His freckled face was as Aus-
tralian as a kangaroo, and when
he grinned his ears were forced
back. Despite the trail of ludi-
crous incidents associated with
his name, Maski’s reputation for
carefreeness was bred not so
much from his adventures as
from his demeanor in ordinary
everyday actions. The simple
business of walking down the
street in Kamerang to buy a pair
of shoes he transformed into an
uproarious expedition. He ate
and talked and drank beer as if
the world were an antbed which
his long legs spanned with seven-
league strides.
T ATE one afternoon Maski sat
on his veranda enjoying his
second bottle of pre-dinner beer.
He had showered, slicked and
combed his auburn hair and had
“changed for dinner,” which
meant that he was wearing a
clean T-singlet and a laplap.
After losing one bungalow in
the ocean, Maski had been
reluctant to rebuild at any
elaborate expense; and this
house, erected back by the old
site o*n the beach, was con-
structed of the same rdady-to-
hand leaves and bamboos as the
natives’ huts. The economy had
not only been adopted by in-
clination but had been dictated
by financial necessity; for,
although Maski’s plantation was
only small, his capital had been
virtually non-existent, and in
buying it he had placed himself,
as he ruefully calculated from his
current rate of saving, in debt for
99 years to come.
As he sat back in his rickety
home-made chair, he absently
kept one hand over his beer,
shielding it from the interminable
sprinkling of wood-powder sift-
ing down from the thatch, where
innumerable invisible borers
chawed their way through the
bamboo bearers.
Maski sat upright with a start
as a launch poked its nose past
the point and rounded into his
anchorage.
With a frown he plucked off
the laplap and drew on a pair of
trousers, then thrust his feet into
backless slippers and flip-flopped
down to the jetty. Surrounded by
a gathering of his jabbering boys
he stood hand-on-hips at the end
of the landing, rearing above
their cropped fuzzy heads like a
tall white pole. The boat
chugged in on slow throttle. He
noticed that the native skipper-
boy, poised on the bow directing
the helmsman by arm-gestures,
was chewing a scarlet mouthful
of betelnut.
“Humph!” muttered Maski.
“Jim Harris would be pleased if
he knew his skippers nosed his
boats through horrible passages
like mine while half-dopy with
buoi.”
Maski bawled out, “You-
fellow come belong woname?”
The skipper-boy, a virile, brown
figure in a green laplap, stared
blankly, not comprehending.
“Me-fellow come belong
kisim copra,” he cried back.
“Me savvy. Me savvy,”
snapped Maski with asperity.
“Tasol whosat ’e sellim you you
come?”
“Master belong me-fellow —
Master Allis. Em yet tasol,”
replied the boy as the launch
gently bounced against the
timbering and the crew threw
ropes to the outstretched hands
on the landing.
“Gawd strike me hooray! ”
raved Maski, breaking into lurid
Australian. Then, returning to
pidgin, he explained indignantly :
“But I wrote Master Harris a
letter and told him not to send
any more boats until Easter so
that I could go into Kamerang,
and another boat at the finish of
Easter, so that I could come
back. Did Master Harris give
you a letter of explanation?”
“No, Master, nothing,” replied
the well-built lad. “Just a bag of
mail from the post-office and
some boxes of cargo.”
The mailbag was passed up to
the exasperated Maski by one of
the crew in the cabin. Maski
immediately thrust an arm into
it inquisitively.
“M a s t e r,” interjected the
skipper-boy, before he could
become completely immersed in
the mail, “Master Allis said that
he would like you to load up the
copra straight away so that we
could return tonight and not be
delayed.”
“Well, you can’t,” retorted
Maski decisively. “I’m annoyed
with Master Harris. I’ll load you
in the morning. I want to write
out replies to some of these
letters tonight.” And, shuffling
envelopes, he stalked back to the
house.
Maski slumped into his arm-
chair and began slitting open the
letters. On unfolding one he
was delighted to find a note from
a bosom plantation-mate.
Ramazan Plantation.
Hello Maski you old nct-hoper!
How’s the copra-producing
going out there? Sneaking into
the kanaka villages in the middle
of the night to pinch their nuts,
eh ? By jove I wish I was a
wealthy capitalist like you own-
ing your own vast estate instead
of being a poverty-stricken slave
of a manager with a board of
directors breathing down my
neck.
I take it for granted you’ll be
going into Kamerang for Easter.
Well how about trying to get
down to my place then, as I’m
going to hold a bit of a parly ?
There’ll be plenty of grog, a pig,
three turkeys, chop-suey and all
the trimmings. All the planta-
tions from around about will be
coming. It’s a pity Ramazan is so
far away from Kamerang but
there might be someone coming
down the road you can cadge a
lift with. Try anyhow, because a
man of your temperament is just
what we need to make the party
go off with a bang!
Cheers and beers,
Andy.
P.S. — I’m expecting about 30 to
arrive and there are only four
beds, so bring your own mattress.
This letter sparked a glint of
excitement into Maski’s eyes,
which was replaced by a frown.
After a pensive pause he rose and
dug out a tattered map of “South
Sussex and Adjacent Islands." He
studied the shape of South
Sussex —a thin tail of an island
200 miles long but in most parts
only a few miles across; really
just a mountain-range rising out
of the ocean, with Kamerang, the
town, perched on the northern
tip. Then he ran his finger down
the length of the island until he
located Ramazan plantation and,
on the other side, not so far on,
his own speck of an island.


NEW INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS!
New Slylng, New Power, New Comfort
T-
AS-110, 12 cwt. Utility
—vi
CZJ
AS-112, 15 cwt. Panel Van
FUNCTIONALLY STYLED FOR PRACTICAL GOOD LOOKS!
Here are the new International Trucks . . . great new models from
every point of view. Their clean-lined balanced styling is trim
and functional, smart and modern . . . built to take the rough
going of truck operation without excessive repair costs. These
new models are ‘all-truck’ from the ground up no compromise
with “beefed-up” motor car parts.
MORE USABLE HORSEPOWER FOR BIG-MONEY SAVINGS
The New Black Diamond Engines have been designed to provide
improved economy, increased power and torque with the higher
octane fuels available. Other improvements have been made to
pistons, valves, manifolds, camshaft, clutch, oil pump and electri-
cal system. All these features mean that you get there faster
with bigger loads and you save on operating and maintenance
expenses you save the big money.
DRIVER DESIGNED FOR REAL COMFORT
The new International trucks let the driver relax, work longer
without fatigue. Drive these newest additions to the most com-
plete truck line ever offered in Australia today. Relax in roomy,
driver-designed comfo-vision cabs with natural angle steering
wheel and toe board to take the strain out of driving. More
features are dual windscreen wipers, sunvisors, dome cab light,
genuine hide upholstery. Low bonnet gives you safer close-up
view of the road ahead. Super-scoop ventilating cowl increases
the comfort of summer driving.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
District sales offices in Capital cities.
4
FMT/724-36
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY
He chewed the pencil rumin-
atively for a while and then sat
up at the table and, with his
tongue protruding between his
teeth, wrote:
Penny Island.
Dear Andy,
I got your note. I have been
thinking it over. That clot Harris
sent a boat out two weeks too
soon and now at Easter / will
only have enough copra for one
trip— to take me in to town. To
get back 1 would have to charter
a boat just to carry me, which is
too expensive. So it looks as if
l will not be going into
Kamerang for Easter. I have a
better idea. It is 60 miles by sea
from my Island up to Kamerang
and then 60 miles all the way
down the road to your place
again. Whereas as the crow flies
from me to you it is only 18
miles — 12-mile by canoo (how
the hell do you spell canoo ?
That does not look right ) across
the bit of sea and then 6 miles
over the mountains from one
coast to the other to your place.
I will set out early in the morn-
ing. I should arrive by nightfall.
Have a beer ready.
Maski.
"IV'EXT day Maski meditated on
whom he would allow to
accompany him on the outing,
to help paddle the canoe.
He was not greatly enthusiastic
that his cook-boy should have
the pleasure, because his com-
petent cook-boy, like many effi-
cient servants, realised his own
indispensability, and his manner
to his master very often deviated
from the respectful towards the
sarcastic. Nevertheless Maski
regretfully concluded that to
take him would be the proper
procedure. A master’s relation-
ship with his house-boy was
supposed to be more fraternal
than with the rest of the planta-
tion rank-and-file.
So Maski entered his kitchen
and announced magnanimously,
“Ah, Baipo at Easter I am
going to canoe across to South
Sussex and walk over the
mountain-range to Ramazan
plantation. If you like, you can
come with me.”
Baipo was a Manum-islander
—tall and strong-faced with eye-
brows a line of thick hedge—
and he wore his hair in a swelling
mushroom-shape.
“Thank you, Master,” he
grinned. “But I am saving-up to
get married. The Luluwai here
has marked a young mary for
me and I do not wish to drown
before tasting the delights of
marriage.”
“Humph! ” snorted Maski
huffily. “All right; maski, then.
Somebody else have the
pleasure of the outing. You
can stay here over Easter and
guard the house.”
Maski next mentioned the sub-
ject in his copra-drying shed.
Here in the warm gloom, almost
invisible, his “monkeys and
lapoos”—youths and oldsters—
squatted around a mound of
dried copra and battered each
half-nut against a stone to
remove the loose copra from its
shell. None of the striplings or
ancients would have been one
iota of use in paddling a canoe
12 miles but Maski nevertheless
facetiously asked if there were
any volunteers. The inquiry
raised a chorus of amused scorn-
ful howls.
One oldster chuckled with
blackened teeth, “Not me,
Master. The canoe would
break in half out in the middle
of the saltwater and a shark
would kaikai me.”
“Poof!” chuckled Maski.
“Sharks are only interested in
meat, not bones.”
One audacious young sprat
asserted that he would not hesi-
tate to accompany any other
master, but “not Master Maski.”
Maski glared; contemplated
clipping him on the ear; but
decided that the remark was a
compliment and broke into a
face - stretching grin. “You
fellows wouldn’t be capable of
pulling a canoe from here to my
house, anyway. I’m going out
into the lines of palms now to
get one of the copra-cutters. One
of the real men.”
Maski strode along the road
until he reached the area where
his “Gorokas” were husking the
fallen nuts. The middle-aged
ones had been fully-grown men
of 20 before the first white men
pentrated up to the Wahgi valley.
Most of them had never seen the
ocean or a coconut-palm until
six months previously. Ugly,
muscular and cheerful, they
bustled to finish their day’s work
by noon, spiking the nuts onio
sharpened mangrove-stakes and
ripping the husks off with a
swifter facility than the native
kanakas of the island.
“Who would like to come
canoeing with me across to the
mainland at Easter - time?”
demanded Maski in a raised
voice.
They stared blankly. Not until
Maski had expatiated more fully
with three or four repetitions,
and the pidgin-speakers had
jabbered the information to the
non-pidgin speakers, and the
whole scattering had chattered
for five-minutes, did the nearest
one reply, “Ooh, Master, we
don’t understand canoes. We are
afraid of thb saltwater. None
of us like the idea at all.”
“Oh, ’struth! That’s right, I
forgot,” muttered Maski. “All-
right, maski, then,” he cried.
Maski stumped into the kit-
chen and growled at Baipo,
“You are coming whether you
like it or not. You are the only
saltwater-boy on the place. None
of those other bush-kanakas
know the handle of a paddle
from its blade. So that’s that! ”
His house-boy, who had
reflected in the interim that the
spectacle of Master Maski
paddling 12 miles would be too
rich an entertainment to miss,
grinned obligingly. “Yes,
Master.”
'T'WELVE nights later, in pro-
found darkness, which
Maski’s watch assured him was
the hour preceding the dawn, a
torch-beam swung and voices
muttered where the tide effer-
vesced gently on the crisp sands.
“Well, we’ve got everything
aboard,” rang Maski’s voice.
“Shove her off, Baipo.”
“Master, drinking - water!”
interjected the other voice.
“Eh?”
“Water for drinking, Master.
It’s a long way across. We’ll be
very thirsty before we get there.”
The response was a pause
followed by a stream of energetic
curses which evolved into a snarl.
“Well, you’re the cook-boy. Why
didn’t you think of it?”
“I did, Master. That’s what
I’m saying. Here’s the tin.”
“Eh! Oh . . . Shove her off,
then. And I hope you’re right
when you reckon you know the
direction. I can’t even see my
own hand.”
A T mid-morning the strong sun
hung over the water as
smooth as though the sea had set
into a jelly. All the exotic debris
of tropic shores littered the
motionless surface; logs and
coconuts and hibiscus-blossoms
and breadfruit-leaves, which
acted as measures for the canoe’s
creeping progress.
Maski sat ahead in the bow,
his bony arms thrusting the
paddle into the water. Baipo
effortlessly drove his paddle in
the stern, the position which by
skilful use of the blade con-
trolled the aim of the canoe at
the same time as stroking it
along. Maski blew out a
“Whoosh!” and retracted his
paddle.
“Knock-off, Baipo,” he
gasped. “Let’s have another
spell.”
And he brushed a perspiration
drip from the tip of his freckled
nose.
The boy amusedly watched the
perspiration stream down his
master’s bare, spiny back to
course into the gap in the belt-
line of the trousers.
“Gawd, I want my brains
brushed,” Maski muttered.
“What, Master?” queried the
boy, not understanding the Eng-
lish.
Maski translated. “I said I’m
an idiot. What I should have
done was hire a big canoe from
the village with about six of you
blokes to paddle it and I could
have just sat back at ease.”
The boy, whose chocolate pelt
shone from the exercise, grinned
with an exposure of teeth like
pearl shell.
“Anyhow, South Sussex is
closer now,” conceded Maski
thankfully. “You can make out
the white line of its beach.” He
screwed around to see how far
away his own island had receded.
“Gawd!” he exploded. “Penny
Island is only just behind us.”
He made angry calculations.
Approximately four miles in
four hours. A mile an hour.
“Blazes! Something’s wrong
somewhere. We’re slower than a
hermit-crab.”
“It’s having all these rests,
Master,” explained Baipo with a
patient smile. “When my people
canoe from Maniim across to
Bogia, which is further than this,
they do it without a stop.”
“I think that’s a big lie,”
declared Maski.
“All right, then,” he growled,
digging his paddle into the water
distastefully. “Let’s get moving
again.”
By almost noon they were two-
thirds of the distance across,
Behind them now lay the wide
nothingness of ocean meeting
sky save for a smudgy-green
summit humping above the rim-
line to remind them of Penny
Island. The mountains of South
Sussex loomed above them, big
and clothed with detail.
Then, at one moment, the
glassy surface of the water
vanished, dappled by puffs of
breeze. Wavelets began to slap
against the canoe’s flanks and,
growing larger, slopped occasion-
ally inboard, splashing Maski’s
kitbag of clothes. Wisps of cirrus-
cloud smeared, the blue, feather-
ing in the hurrying wind. A
short swell arose which see-sawed
the canoe with jerky, rocking
motions.
“Hey, I don’t like this,” cried
Maski over his shoulder. “Let’s
go back to where it’s calm.”
“That would be no good,
Master,” came the urgent reply.
“It’s the same back there now.
We’ve got to keep going. South
Sussex is the closer.”
They drove the paddles
strongly but carefully, without
thought of a pause now, despite
the fact that above the turbulence
of the ocean the sun still scorched
Maski's vulnerable skin. Every
wave slopped its crest over into
the canoe, and Maski was obliged
repeatedly to cease paddling and
bail with a can. His kitbag of
holiday-clothes was saturated,
and so was the boy’s plaited
{Continued on next page )


CHATEAU TANUNDA
(Clipper Ships No. I)
BSSSII-
. • -
A Beautiful Clipper
When a ship is named after her owner, this is
usually because she is expected to do him ex-
ceptional credit. That was the case with the
“James Baines,” one of the proudest Clippers
built in America for Australia’s booming trade i
of the Golden Fifties—-for the bearing of emi- -
grants to a thriving continent and the transport
of gold and wool to the Motherland.
In 1854, Donald McKay of Boston, was commissioned ~
to design a fleet of superlative ships for the Black Ball
Line of Liverpool, and the vessel judged the best of
these was given the name of the head of the firm—
James Baines. Thus she carried, instead of some in-
spiringly symbolic figurehead, a solemn, top-hatted
effigy of Mr. Baines himself; but, in spite of it, this
big 2,500-ton Clipper was a widely-acknowledged
beauty—a work of technical perfection in an era when j
the art and science of shipbuilding had reached the
zenith in sail.
Under the command of Captain Charles Mc-
Donnell, the “Jimmy B," as they called her, sailed
from Liverpool for Melbourne on December 9, 1854,
with 700 passengers. She made a round-trip record—
-63 days out and 69 days Home again. Under full sail
in a strong wind, she once “touched" 21 knots—an un-
surpassed feat for a sailing ship, though not being a
' “run” it does not give her title as the fastest Clipper.
Indeed, the majority of her subsequent passages to
and from Australia were sailed in a stately, rather than
a dashing fashion. She rested on her maiden laurels.
This outstanding ship remained very actively in the
Australian trade until 1857 when, on the outbreak of
the Indian Mutiny, she was taken over as a British i
troop-carrier. Queen Victoria inspected her before
she sailed from Portsmouth for Calcutta and said : “I
did not know that so splendid a merchant ship belonged
to my Dominions." Alas, that splendour was destined
to be short-lived, for on returning to Liverpool from
India the “James Baines” was destroyed by fire while
loading—the fate of many a great wooden ship,
Remember — always have a bottle in the house
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
GFI3
Wv'
basket of belongings, tumbling in
the see-sawing water in the
bottom of the hollowed-out
tree-trunk. But Maski was not
concerned about the wetness of
his possessions. His attention
was aimed at reaching the coast-
line safely.
Soon after, the waves began to
crash inboard so heavily that
Maski barely had time to pull a
few strokes before he would be
compelled to withdraw the paddle
and return to the bailing.
“I’ll do the pulling, Master.
You keep on the bailing,” cried
the boy urgently.
Maski did not waste breath
answering. His long arms
threshed the water out in a
spray.
He considered desperately
what he would do if the canpe
sank. He had read somewhere
that trousers with a knot in the
end of each leg and filled with
air acted excellently as emergency
water-wings. He thanked good-
ness that he had donned long
trousers to protect his legs from
nettles on the mountain-range.
Between scoops with the can, he
yanked-off his canvas shoes.
Maski’s canoe had been
fashioned to his own specifica-
tions out of an exceptionally
slim pencil of a tree and its walls
were scooped thin for lightness
and speed. Gallons of soggy
water ran in the bottom and, with
the weight of a human poised at
each end, the waist suffered a
continual bending stress in the
short, violent swell.
Maski was just considering the
advisability of ceasing paddling
entirely and both of them con-
centrating on bailing for survival
when, with a rending crack, the
centre snapped and water flooded
in ; and, staring at each other’s
aghast faces, the blackboy and
the white man gently sank to
their necks in the heaving ocean.
IycASKI desperately clawed off
his trousers underwater
and knotted the extremity of
each leg. Treading-water, he
waved them about his head, try-
ing to scoop-in air. But the
trousers were soaked and unco-
operative, and trying to inflate
them with only his arms and
occasionally his head above
water, he was having no success.
“What are you doing,
Master?”
He twisted his neck and per-
ceived Baipo calmly holding to
the floating wreckage of the
canoe. Maski swore at himself
for not remembering that the
thing was made of light wood
and would naturally float.
“Nothing,” he replied, lunging
for the other section. “What are
we going to do now?”
“I don’t know,” Maski
admitted, tossing his head back
to clear his draggling red hair
from his eyes and gazing towards
South Sussex —an unattainably-
mimense distance away when
viewed from wave-top level.
As he pondered, Maski’s cling-
ing fingers encountered canvas.
Puzzled, he rolled his canoe-
section over—and, caught under
the outrigger-pole, was the kit-
bag. Maski eyed it and ripped
out a jubilant shout.
“Hey!” he cheered. “My in-
flatable rubber-mattress is in
there!”
“What, Master?”
Maski did not answer but
plucked excitedly at the cord.
From the interior he pulled out
the rubbery bundle. He clasped
his lips over the nozzle and
blew ; and while their defenceless
feet dangled over unplumbable
depths and every ridge of wave
smothered them, the boy’s eyes
opened in wonderment and
excitement as each puff swelled
out and revealed the shape of
the mattress.
Red in the cheeks and reeling,
Maski forced in the last breath
that inflated the rubber hard.
With an exultant cry and a
splash he swung onto and
straddled it. Not until then did
he divert a thought to his
trousers and kitbag. He glanced
about in dismay. They were
gone.
“Master, is there room for
me?” cried Baipo, apprehensively
dog-paddling toward the float.
“Yeah ; I think so. If we are
careful.”
The boy’s laplap had drifted
away in the rolling wash and his
mushroom of hair had been flat-
tened by the waves so that it
comically veranda’d down over
his eyes and ears like an um-
brella. He heaved himself, dark
and glistening, out of the sea and
was clutched aboard by the white
man. The mattress sank lower
but still provided an excellent
raft. “The thing’s not made for
two, but I think she’ll be all
right,” mused Maski.
He was too preoccupied to
recall the time when he had
bought it. He had been on leave
in a southern city and, drifting
down the aisles of a big
emporium, had noticed the
rubber-mattress. Idly he had
lifted the label and read
“Although solidly constructed of
first-rate materials, this bed is not
designed for double weight.
Users are warned to refrain from
more than one person lying on
it at a time.”
Maski’s long face had split
into a grin.
“Say, how’s their form!” he
had remarked at the watching
counter-assistant. “These blokes
have got a sense of humor.”
And he had dived his hand
into a pocket. “I must have one
of these.”
Now, in the Bismarck Sea,
four miles from the nearest land,
Maski put his arm over his cook-
boy’s shoulder and instructed
him: “You hang onto me the
same. Now with our other hands
we can paddle. It’s a long way
And we’ll be damn’ near dead
when we get there. But I don’t
see why we can’t do it.”
With their faces a couple of
inches apart they both grinned.
“Come on, young-fellow Baipo,
belong lassa village long
Manum,” exhorted Maski,
“pull 1”
npHE sun was low over the
A ocean and the coconut-palm
shadows were slanting back over
a South Sussex beach when two
figures, one dark and the other
tall and pink, staggered in crazily
over the reef.
Floundering like drugged men,
knocked down by the gentle surf,
stumbling in the pot-holes, they
reached the white sand. The
brown figure immediately sank
onto his knees and then his face,
but the other, whose skin was
cooked by the sun, kept plodding
to the nearest blotch of shade.
Then he collapsed, gently rolled
over onto his back, and both
figures lay still.
The wind rustled the palm-
fronds. The sun drenched the
ocean orange. Spider - crabs
scuttled timidly among the shells.
Giggles and shrieks dragged
Maski from clogged depths. He
sat up abruptly. The sun was
only half-a-disk perched on the
watery horizon, and surrounding
him and Baipo—but most thickly
around him —stood an amused
gathering of about 40 marys and
children. The women were all
bare above the waist and the
whole collection of them held
baskets of shellfish they had
apparently been gathering further
along the reef.
Maski flushed an even richer
red and lunged for his rubber-
mattress. Baipo dived into the
scrub. Maski tried to wrap the
mattress around him but it was
firm with air-pressure. Frantic
with embarrassment he bit out
the plug and, as the mattress
hissed, he bent it around him in
the midst of delirious brown
laughter.
He stood paralysed with shame
for a moment, and then became
hotly angry and swore vehem-
ently.
“Where is the nearest track
that goes over the mountain-
range to the other side?” he
growled at the closest giggling
mary. .
She answered, between con-
vulsions, “See that village on the
next point, Master? Well, a
track goes up from the back of
that.”
Maski noticed the cluster of
huts-on-legs for the first time.
“Oh,” he exclaimed, “and does
the path come down anywhere
near Ramazan plantation?”
“Right alongside it, Master.”
“Good! ”
Maski bawled for his boy, and
a shamefaced Baipo, wearing
banana-leaves fastened by vines,
emerged from the thickets further
along the beach. Maski set out
for the village, and immediately
all the troop became mobile
behind him.
Maski lengthened his stride in
alarm; but his admirers were
not to be cheated of such unusual
entertainment, and the picca-
ninnies ran energetically with
piping shouts and shrieks while
the marys trotted with flopping
breasts, stopping only to collapse
hysterically.
Almost running, Maski and
Baipo proceeded at the head of
a parade through the village,
with all the followers shouting
delighted explanations to the
spectators in the houses. Door-
ways and windows spilled occu-
pants who stared in immense
amusement at the long master
girded in the odd laplap, and his
leaf-attired Sancho Panza. At
the end of the village Maski and
Baipo dived into the shrubbery
with all the animated impetus of
two cats removing themselves
from the surface of a hot stove.
In thinly-diluted darkness
Maski earnestly strode up the
foot-trail with greenery sus-
pended all about and tree-tops
mysterious above.
Baipo dragged unenthusiasti-
cally some distance behind.
“Master, we can’t cross the range
in the dark!” he cried.
“The moon will rise in a short
while,” came back the curt reply.
“Master, I’m hungry and
tired.”
“So am I.”
The boy’s stamina was possibly
greater than his master’s, but he
was not urged by the same
incentive as the white man, who
was hastening to be with his
own kind.
“Master, let’s go back -and
sleep in that village and we can
set out in the morning,” he
pleaded.
Maski stopped and waited for
him. “Now, listen,” he explained,
fabricating an extempore fiction,
“the master at Ramazan also has
a Manum cook-boy who’ll love
to see you and fuss over you.
He’ll probably give you half-a-
turkey. When I hold a party you
always steal three-quarters of my
food, and I don’t doubt other
people’s cook-boys are the
same.”
“What is the cook-boy's
name?” .
“Er . . . Patipa,” answered
Maski, with the most common
Manum name he knew of.
“He’s my cousin!” exclaimed
Baipo delightedly.
“Very likely,” muttered Maski,
absently striding ahead. “Now,
come on.”
After they had temporaril
descended to a gully and hac
started up the more formidabl
slope beyond, Baipo called-from
behind: “Master, were yo
ashamed when all those mary
saw you with no clothes on?”
Maski exploded a series oi
hasty, staccato coughs.
“I think that was the first tim
they had ever seen a naked
white man,” suggested the cook
boy with a grin.
“Very possibly,” barked Mask
in a harsh voice.
“It was the first time I hac
ever seen a white man withou
clothes,” the boy confided
further, still • grinning.
“Indeed,” Maski snapped and
spurted faster, so that his fol
lower was puffing to keep up.
After a pause, Baipo con
tinued, with the tone of one to
whom had been revealed
momentous discovery, “Master
you are white all over!”
“Well, what did you bloody
well think I’d be?” erupted
Maski over his shoulder. “Pie
bald in patches? Come on
Come on. Hurry up! And qui
gabbling like an old grand
mother! ”
“Yes, Master,” grinned hi
servant obediently.
A few moments later a silvery
rim of moon suddenly illumi
nated the miniature tree-tops on
the mountain ahead.
TUST before midnight in the
** Ramazan house’s lit-up main
room, the party was skirling into
fuli hectic stride.
Swirling couples, spinning
around the centre of the floor in
time with the blaring gramo-
phone, competed against the
clink of glasses and roar of con-
versation from immovable
masculine knots bunched about
the perimeter.
When Maski materialised in
the tasselled doorway, a sun-
scorched, scratched, mud-
streaked, haggard figure wrapped
about by a sheet of rubber, no
one noticed him at first. He
staggered towards the nearest
chair and almost snapped the
legs collapsing into it.
“Maski!” exclaimed a startled
voice.
The hubbub of talk paused and
expired. The gramophone was
silenced.
“I said he’d arrive, dead or
alive,” bellowed one voice
triumphantly. “Which is it,
Maski?” *
Peals and shouts of laughter
surrounded him.
“Poor darling, he’s obviously
had a terrible experience.”
“Wouldn’t be Maski if he
hadn’t.”
“Hey, Maski,” insisted one
ribald joker, “the invitation
didn’t state fancy-dress.”
“Ha, ha,” grated Maski sourly,
recumbent on the chair, his dirty
bare legs stretched straight out.
“Have your laugh, but bring me
a drink, a couple of turkeys and
a ham first. But principally—and
quickly—a drink.”
In the midst of the delighted
audience he symbolical!)
smeared non-existent perspira
tion off his brow and uttered
“You’ll never ever know the
strife I’ve had getting here.
Phew! . . . Maskil”
CANTICLE
Night, night of fulfilment, reconciling night,
After the spirit’s wars;
The emperor-moth of pleasure takes his flight,
Drawn on beneath the stars
1 o where he knows hist destined love is waiting
Whose secret fragrance has compelled their mating,
O eloquent night, that has no need of speech!
Here all estrangement ends.
Now for all past delay and torment each
To other makes amends;
AH contraries resolved, each purpose singled,
With every breath two beings are commingled.
%
Mysterious night—O naked burning touch
That wounds me with desire!
The blinded sense grows faint, stricken with such
Deep intimacies of fire.
Did not love’s being wholly now sustain it,
My life would cease, the earth could not restrain it.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


Missing Friend
TO FRANCOIS BE NX-1 SON formerly of
No. 282 Moray Street South Melbourne in
the State of Victoria and of Traralgon in
the said State and of Maryborough in the
said State and of Georgetown in the
State of Tasmania but now of where-
abouts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife ADELINE TRENE MAY BENN-
ISON of No. 45 Strathmerton Street
Reservoir in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has commenced proceedings in
the Supremo Court of Victoria for a
Divorce from you on the ground of deser-
tion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Thirtieth day of May 195 G the case
may proceed in your absence AND TAKE
FURTHER_NOTICE that if you intend to
defend this suit you should cause an
answer to be filed in the said Office on
or before the Tenth day of June 195 G.
This advertisement is inserted by
MAURICE GOLDBERG, of No. 305
Bridge Road, Richmond, in the State of
Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
The savings bought
us an extra room!
HARDIEST ibrolite
(Reg’d. Trade Mark)
A0I»A6I
t 030
mi;
**#>
V-*
aSSffi:?-,.
Everyone knows the value of a sunroom or an extra bedroom\ You build for less
with “Fibrolite” . .. you save enough in building costs to safely plan for an
extra room. “Fibrolite” is fire retardant, white ant and borer proof and com-
pletely weatherproof. It can be painted to suit today’s modern colour schemes.
“Fibrolite” homes cost less to build, less to maintain, less to insure. Specify
“Fibrolite” asbestos-cement Flat Sheets for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Corrugated Sheets for roofing.
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King St.
To JAMES HARDIE & Coy. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send, FREE and kOST FREE your illustrated
booklet containing full information and designs of modern •
“Fibrolite” Homes.
NAME 4_
ADDRESS
□
Please cross square if you would like our representative to i
call and advise on your home building problems. r'H.l/46/B I
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE TALES OF PERCY MUMBULLA
As told to Roland Robinson
Percy Mumbulla is one of
the few remaining full-blood
aborigines on the South Coast
of N. S. Wales. He is the son
of old “King” Jacky Mum-
bulla, who was well known on
the South Coast and from
whom Mumbulla Mountain
and the shire of Mumbulla
take their names.
As far as can be ascertained
the original mythology of the
South Coast tribes is irre-
coverably lost. This present
selection of tales, directly
related by Percy Mumbulla,
include significant fragments
of mythological beliefs per-
sisting in contemporary times.
The Battle at
Wallaga Lake
OLD King Merriman lived
on the rocky and timbered
island which is now called
B i 11 y g o a t Island, in
Wallaga Lake.
King Merriman’s moodjingarl
was the black-duck. Every
blackfellow has a moodjingarl.
It is given to him before he is
born. It is his power, his spirit
that looks after him and warns
him of danger. My moodjingarl
is the mailbird, the owl. If there
is danger coming, that owl will
sing out in the night to me.
If I don’t take any notice, that
bird will fly down through the
camp and hit me with his wing
as he passes. If I still don’t take
any notice, he will swoop down
and flutter in the ashes of the
fire. He will lie there fluttering
in the ashes as though he is hurt.
He will get up and flutter away
and try to lead me off.
I know there is danger then,
close up. Someone, a bugeen
perhaps, is sneaking-up on me to
kill me with his guneena, his
devils’-stones. I’ve got to grab
my swag, straightaway, and go.
That mailbird, my moodjingarl,
will lead me away until I am out
of danger.
No one could ever sneak up
on old King Merriman without
him knowing. No matter how
far away danger was coming,
the black-duck would always
know. It would fly past the
island in the darkness, crying
out. It would swoop down on
to the water and lie there in the
darkness crying out and thrash-
ing its wings. •
This was how King Merriman
knew that a big army from a
Victorian tribe was coming to
clean the Wallaga Lake tribe
right out. This was King Merri-
man’s power. He could under-
stand what that black-duck was
saying and he could talk to it
like talking to another black-
fellow.
Then King Merriman stood
up on his island and called out
to all the Wallaga Lake tribe.
“Walthow!” he sang out.
“Look out! A big mob from
Victoria are coming to clear us
right out! Gather up all your
spears. Gather up all your
boomerangs and nulla-nullas and
get ready! ”
Then the Wallaga Lake tribe
took all their women and
children and put them on a
point of land that runs out into
the lake. Then, about sundown,
the men went to the end of the
approach to the lake where the
reeds stand thick and tall. There
they went down into the reeds
and hid themselves and waited
for the Victorian tribe.
All the time King Merriman
stood on his island looking out.
He could feel that big tribe
coming from a long way off.
Just as it was starting to break
dawn the Victorian tribe was
close-up to where the Wallaga
Lake tribe was waiting in the
reeds.
King Merriman saw them first
and sang out from his island.
Then the Wallaga Lake tribe
sprang out of the reeds, shouting
their battle-cries. In flights and
flights the spears were flying and
the boomerangs were whistling
through the air.
Men were falling down in all
shapes. From both sides came
the flights of the spears. More,
and more, and more they came.
The air was so thick with the
spears flying you could not see
through them. King Merriman
on his island could hear the
shouting from both sides.
Through the trees he could see
the warriors being hit with the
boomerangs. He saw the rushing
crowds of men fighting close-up
with their nulla-nullas and
stone-axes. And he heard then
shouting and crying oujf as the
spears went through them.
At last King Merriman knew
that the Victorian tribe was too
strong. It was cleaning-up the
Wallaga Lake tribe. Then the
Victorian tribe started to put out
across the water for the island
in canoes.
From a long way off on his
island King Merriman started to
throw his spears. Those spears
had great power in them. They
went through the warriors and
into the canoes. King Merriman’s
spears were sinking those canoes.
But more and more the canoes
came on across the water. There
were so many canoes that he
could not clean them out. At
last his spears were finished.
Then King Merriman started
to throw his boomerangs. Those
boomerangs were black and
greasy. They had even more
power in them than his spears.
They whined and whistled down
onto the warriors in the canoes,
cutting off their arms and cut-
ting off their heads. When those
boomerangs hit the warriors they
would cut through them and
come flying back to King Merri-
man. There King Merriman
stood on his island catching his
boomerangs out of the air or
picking them up from his feet
and throwing them again.
But still the canoes came on
across the water.
At last King Merriman knew
that his power was finished. The
Victorian tribe was too strong.
They had cleaned-out the Wal-
laga Lake tribe, everyone: men,
women and children.
Before those canoes reached
the island King Merriman was
gone. He turned himself into a
whirlwind and flew away to the
Shoalhaven tribe. Over the fierce
and terrible Kiola tribe he
passed. He did not stop there
but the old men of that tribe
felt him passing. They knew with
their power that the Victorian
tribe had cleaned out the Wal-
laga Lake tribe and that they
were coming to do battle with
them.
This Kiola tribe was the tribe
who saw the ship with white sails
of Captain Cook trying to put
into land at Kiola. But a big
wind came up and blew the ship
out to sea again.
In a whirlwind King Merri-
man flew, rushing over their
country, and came to the Shoal-
haven blackfellows. “Walthow !”
he cried to them. “Look out! A
big Victorian tribe is coming.
They have cleared my tribe right
out in a big battle at Wallaga
Lake. We couldn’t stand up to
them. They were too many and
too strong with their spears and
boomerangs. Walthow! lam the
only one left alive to tell you.”
No, the Victorian tribe never
got past the Kiola tribe. The
Kiola men were too fierce and
terrible. They met the Victorian
tribe and cleaned it right out.
But old King. Merriman, his
power was broken. For a while
he stayed at the Shoalhaven.
Then he travelled away. Where
he died no one knows.
The Bunyip
OLD Billy Poddam was a real
bugeen, a clever old-man.
He used to have a half-a-crown.
He would go and play cards. He
would go through all his other
silver and then play his half-a-
crown. He’d lose it. But the next
day he’d have it back in his hand
again. No one could get that
half-a-crown from him.
This old fellow had a bunyip.
It was his power, his moodjin-
garl. This bunyip was high in the
front and low at the back like a
hyena, like a lion. It had a
terrible big bull-head and it was
milk-white. This bunyip could
go down into the ground and
take the old man with him. They
could travel under the ground.
They could come out anywhere.
They could come out of that
old tree over there.
Old Billy Poddam never did
no harm to no one all the time
he was at Wallaga. He went out
to Brungle, his native home, the
Red Hill tribe. Out there he did
something wrong that hurt his
sister’s feelings. His sister caught
him with the guneena- stones. She
was as clever as he was. So,
when he knew that his own sister
had caught him, he caught her
with the guneena- stones.
“Well,” he said, ‘.‘you’ll die ;
I’ll die too.”
That bunyip, he went away,
he went back to the swamp, back
to the water. If he was coming
out of the swamp you’d see the
water bubbling and boiling. He’d
make the water all milky.
My old dad was smoking his
pipe by the chimbley. Mum
heard this bunyip coming, roar-
ing. The ground started to
shake. He was coming closer.
He came out of the ground
underneath the tank-stand.
Went over to the chimbley and
started rubbing himself against
it. He started to get savage. He
started to roar. Mum told Dad
to go out and talk to him in
the language, tell him to go
away, that we were all right.
Dad went out and spoke to him
in the language. He talked to
him: “We are all right. No one
doing any harm. You can go
away.” •
Dad followed him across the
road, talking to him all the time
in the language.
I looked out through the
window. That’s when I saw the
bunyip. He was milk-white. He
had a terrible big bull-head, a
queer-looking thing. He had
terrible eyes, big as a bullock’s
eyes, and they were glaring and
rolling about. Every time Dad
spoke to him, he’d roar. My
old-man was talking: “Every-
thing is all right. Don’t get
savage here.”
The bunyip went down into
(i Continued on page 30)


North Through the Barrier Reef
Captain Cook’s
Own Story (2)
By M. H. ELLIS
Model of the Endeavour.
Concluding article on the first printed copy of Cook’s own
(unedited) account of the voyage to Australia in the Endeavour
—the first volume of the important edition of his “Voyages,”
issued by Cambridge University for the Hakluyt Society; the
scholarly work of New Zealander Dr. j. C. Beaglehole. . The
first article, dealing with the expedition up to the landing in
Australia, appeared in last week’s “Bulletin.”
AFTER the Botany Bay
landing the long trail
began up 1800 miles of
danger-studded shores.
From now onwards Cook’s
narrative is dotted with familiar
names. There are gaps —he
missed the Hunter mouth, but he
found and named Port Stephens,
after. the Secretary to the
Admiralty . . . Cape Hawke (it
was first Cape Morton);
“Smoaky” Cape.
Cape Byron, and the neighbor-
hood of the Queensland border,
he reached on the morning of
May 17, ten days out frdm
Botany. He saw and named Mt.
Warning, now so fine a landmark
from the air, and Point Danger
at the mouth of the Tweed.
He discovered and put a name
to Moreton Bay on May 17,
noting that some on board were
“of opinion that there is a river
there because the sea looked
paler than usual.”
Their captain thought the
coloring might be due to the
white, sandy bottom. It was sft
years before the acute observers
were proved right.
Next, three fiills a little way
inland hove in sight, familiar
objects today, looking in the sun
like the glass-houses from which
they were named. So on ... to
Double Island Point, and Wide
Bay, and Sandy Cape, and
Hervey Bay, which Cook called
after that spirited naval'character
Admiral Augustus Hervey, later
third Earl of Bristol. Everybody
seems to have been in high spirits
by the time they reached Sandy
Cape:—
Last night some time in the
Middle Watch a very extraordi-
nary affair happened to Mr Orton
my Clerk, he having been drink-
ing in the evening, some malicious
person or persons in the Ship
took advantage of his being drunk
and cut off all the cloaths from
off his back, not being satisfied
with this they some time after
went into his Cabbin and cut off
part of both his ears as he lay
asleep in his bed.
Though the captain felt that
he could not prove it was Mr.
Magra, a midshipman—whom
Orton suspected—-who had done
the dark deed, it appeared that
once before in their drunken
frolics Mr. Magra had done a bit
of clothes-cutting and had said
that if it were not for the law
he would murder his messmate.
So his commander thought him
“not altogether innocent,” and
forthwith cast him from the
quarterdeck and suspended him
from all duty, “he being one of
those gentlemen, frequently
found in Kings Ships, that can
very well be spared, or to speake
more planer good for nothing.”
Cook appeared very angry, for,
wrote he, “I look upon such
proceedings as highly dangerous
in such voyages as this and the
greatest insult that could be
offered to my authority in this
ship, as I have always been ready
to hear and redress every com-
plaint that have been made
against any person in the ship.”
By May 31 he was well above
the tropic of Capricorn and had
added Keppel Bay—“a good
anchorage with sufficient water
but where we caught no fish” —
named for Anson’s best officer,
who had become a captain at 19
years of age. Cape Manifold was
named “from the number of
high hills over it,” and Cape
Townshend after “Spanish
Charles” Townshend, one of the
Lords of the Admiralty.
They went ashore near Broad-
sound, where Cook thought to
iay-up the ship to clean her
bottom, but changed his mind,
and also resisted the temptation
to explore inland waters —he
always had a level head in the
vicinity of shoals.
Broad Sound and Cape
Palmerston (after another Lord
of the Admiralty) had their
names on June 2, and next day
he had passed the site of Mackay
and had named Cape Hills-
borough. He here noted, beyond
the screen of, islands, a change
in the scenery to moderate
fertility.
He headed up to Repulse Bay
and Cape Conway, going on to
name the Whitsunday Passage,
the Cumberland Isles, Cape
Gloucester (which is not the
present one, but on Gloucester
Island), Edgcumbe Bay (after
another Lord who had been one
of the commanders of his
American days), and Cape
Upstart, “because being sur-
rounded with low land, it starts
or riseth up singley at the first
making of it and is of a height
sufficient to be seen 12 Leagues.”
Then, on the 6th of the month,
he was off Ross Creek and
Townsville, and named Cape
Cleveland and “Magnetical Head
or Isle”—“it had much the
appearance of an island and the
Compass would not travis well
when near it.”
Here the land looked rugged
and barren —the worst he had
seen. He would have been sur-
prised to find there, 200 years
afterwards, the greatest city of
the North, one of the largest
ports in the Commonwealth.
Rockingham Bay impressed
him more after he had passed
Hinchinbrook, naming its north-
easterly point Cape Sandwich.
They pushed in among the
narrow channels between its
islands, and named Dunk Island,
lying so near the shore you could
scarce distinguish it from the
land. Then they skirted Cape
Grafton and looked into the
deep recesses of Trinity Bay,
where Cairns would presently
flourish.
It was here he took an almost
fatal decision. He was about to
find good cause to name the bay’s
north point Cape Tribulation,
“because here begun all our
troubles.”
Off Cape Tribulation
They were, on June 11,
properly among the coral, stand-
ing off the land with a fine breeze
of wind and clear moonlight,
and everybody at his station
ready to put-about or come to
anchor. At 10-o’clock that night
all seemed well ;
at 11-o’clock the
ship struck, and
set fast on the
reef.
They were
2000 miles, as far
as they knew,
from any civilisa-
tion ; in the
latitude, approxi-
mately, of the
isles discovered
by Quiros, which
had been thought
to be part of the
southern con-
tinent.
But there was
no panic.
They took in
their sails and
hoisted out the
boats, and soon
found that they
were fast on the
S.E. edge of the
coral with deep
water adjacent.
They quickly
struck yards and
topmasts, and
got the stream-
anchor out upon
the starboard bow. They took
another anchor into a boat,
carried it out on the starboard
quarter and “hove on it with
great.strean” to try to pull the
ship off. But to no purpose.
Hurriedly they went to work
to lighten ship.
Guns, iron- and stone-ballast;
casks, hoops, staves, oil-jars and
decayed stores all went over-
board into the shallows, from
which they hoped to retrieve
them later, until 40- or 50-tons'
weight had gone.
But the rising tide was not
enough to float her, and the
morning ebb saw her beginning
to take in water, “as much as two
pumps could free.”
At noon on June 12 she lay
“with three strakes heel to star-
board.”
She was almost right opposite
the Diane Bank, far out to the
east, where Bougainville had
Named by Cook.
turned away from the coast as he
saw the outposts of the Barrier
Reef.
Now the fight for existence
began in earnest. Two bower-
anchors were got out and hauled
on taut with block-and-tackle.
At five-o’clock they were still
there, with the tide rising and the
leaks increasing. At nine that
night the ship righted, but the
leaks still grew and gained on
the pumps:
There was an alarming and I
may say terrible Circumstance
The stoat little ship ashore at the Endeavour River.


and threatened immidiatc destruc-
tion to us as soon as the ship was
afloat. However I resolved to
resk all and heave her oft in case
it was practical and accordingly
turned as many hands to the
Capstan and Windlass as could
be spared from the Pumps and
about 20 past 10 oClock the
ship floated and we hove her oft
into deep water having at this
time 3 feet 9 inches of water in
the hold.
Then all hands are on the
pumps, their fears being in-
creased by the error of a man
measuring the make of the water,
who made it appear that the
leak had gained on them 16in.
or 18in. in very quick time.
They lost cables and their
small bower - anchor. They
pumped till they ached. But an
hour before midnight they got
the ship under sail, a gang mean-
while being employed “sowing
ockham wool etc into a lower
studding sail, to fother the ship.”
Still the water gained, as in
light airs they edged in towards
the coast.
By the afternoon of the 13th
they were ready for fothering,
and put the packed sail under the
starboard fore-chains. Soon the
leak decreased, till one pump
could deal with it with ease, and
the reaction of the stout
commander was typical. Even if
he had lost his ship he would not
have given up: r
It is much easier to conceive
then to discribe the satisfaction
felt by every body on this occa-
tion, but a few minutes before
our utmost wishes were to get
hold of some place upon the
Main or an Island to run the ship
ashore where out of her materials
we might build a vessel to carry
us to the East Indias ; no
sooner were we made sensible
that the outward application to
the ships bottom had taken effect
than the feild of every mans
hopes inlarged so that we now
thought of nothing but rainging
along shore in search of a harbour
where we could repair the
damages we had sustained. In
justice to the Ships Company I
must say that no men ever be-
haved better than they have done
on this occasion animated by the
beheavour of every gentleman on
board, every man seem’d to
have a just sence of the danger
we were in and exerted himself to
the very utmost.
He sets out to describe the
process of fothering.: how the
sail, reinforced by oakum,
cemented with sheep’s dung or
“other filth,” is hauled under the
ship from one part of the bottom
to another till the leak is closed
as the oakum is washed into the
hole. And he tells how “Mr.
Munkhouse one of my Mid-
shipmen, was once in a Merchant
Ship which sprung a leak and
made 48 inches water per hour
but by this means was brought
from Virginia to London with
only her proper crew.” So to
him “I gave the diriction of this
who exicuted it very much to
my satisfaction.”
Endeavour River
It was June 18 in the after-
noon, after battling with strong
gales, that they made the mouth
of the Endeavour River and
found their way into shelter,
after having run their vessel
aground twice in the process.
The second time she stuck fast,
but finally floated off, and they
warped her into haven and
anchored her alongside the steep
beach on the south side of Cook
Harbor, where Cooktown now
stands.
They set up a stage from ship
to shore, put up tents for the sick
and for the stores as they began
to empty their stout little craft
—they had eight or nine men ill.
Around them was a depressing
prospect:
I had a perfect View of the
inlet or River and adjacent
country which afforded but a very
indifferent prospect, the low
lands near the River is all over
run with mangroves among which
the salt water flowes every tide
and the, high land appeared to be
barren and stoney.
There they had to stay while
the carpenters went over the
Endeavour thoroughly, raising
her bottom on emptied casks,
compromising with the tides,
beating off the mosquitoes,
braving the weather.
Still, the change ashore did
them good and was a royal time
for the scientists and the
From Cook's own Journal in the National Library, Canberra.
explorers. The weather even
cleared enough to give the
astronomers, headed by the
Captain, a chance to view the
behavior of the satellites of
Jupiter.
They were able to observe
the natives; and on Saturday,
July 15, Lieutenant Gore, the
third-lieutenant, performed a
historic feat. He shot the first
kangaroo ever killed by a white
man —or rather, it would seem,
a wallaby, for it weighed only
281 b. clear of entrails.
They saw about them
“wolves,” possums and a multi-
tude of fowl. Kangaroos were
in the greatest numbers: they
rarely went out on their expedi-
tions without seeing them.
"New South Wales "
On August 6 they were under
sail again, shivering among the
coral and the shoals.
They lived at the masthead,
seeing “nothing but breakers all
the way from the South round
by the East as far as the NW,
extending out to sea as far as we
could see.”
Easy to believe that Cook
found sailing among the coral
“most dangerous, and requires
great care and circumspection,
for like all other shoals or reefs
of Coral Rocks they are quite
steep too.”
He landed at last at Cape
Flattery to view the coastline
and see if he could spy passages
between the reefs, but the out-
look was discouraging, and the
experience becoming increasingly
nerve-wracking and wearying for
a commander who had been
entangled amid the shoals “more
or less ever sence the 26th of
May [it was then August 14]
in which time we have sailed
360 leagues without ever having
a Man out of the cheans heaving
the Lead when the Ship was
under way, a circumstance that I
dare say never happen’d to any
ship before.”
He was sick of it, and it was
becoming too dangerous. So it
was with “great regret”—as if
he had not done more than
enough already—that he was
obliged to leave the rest of the
coast unexplored to its northern
extremity, which “we think we
were not far off, for I firmly
believe that it doth not join New
Guinea.”
The best he could hope for was
to clear up this point, being
resolved to get into the land
again as soon as he felt it safe.
They made for the open sea
by a channel near the Direction
Islands, and were able to take
up their scouting boats; but not
for long were they out of danger.
Within two or three days that
insatiable curiosity which makes
explorers had led them into their
greatest dangers and their
narrowest escape of the whole
voyage: it inspired the writing
of that passage quoted in the first
article in which Cook stated his
explorer’s credo.
It cured him of all desire for
further acquaintance with reefs
and shallows, b.ut not of a
determination to keep beside the
land and not go outside the
Barrier and deprive himself of
the chance of determining finally
whether New Holland and New
Guinea were joined.
So he threaded his way north-
ward close to shore, naming
Cape Grenville, Bolt Head,
Temple Bay, Sir Charles Hardy’s
Isles, until, on August 21-2, he
rounded “the northern pro-
montory of this country,” which
he named York Cape in honor of
his late Royal Highness the Duke
of York.
On August 22 Cook wrote
sombrely:
Having satisfied my self of the
great Probability of a Passage,
thro’ which I intend going with
the Ship, and therefore may land
no more upon this Eastern coast
of New Holland, and on the
Western side I can make no new
discovery the honour of which be-
longs to the Dutch navigators;
but the Eastern Coast from the
Latitude of 38 degrees South
down to this place I am confident
was never seen or viseted by any
European before us, and Notwith-
stand that I had in the name of
His Majesty taken possession of
several places upon this coast, I
now once more hoisted English
Coulers and in the Name of His
Majesty King George the Third
took possession of the whole
Eastern Coast from the above
Latitude down to this place by
the name of New South Wales. ..
Standing on Possession Island
they fired three volleys of small
arms and were answered in kind
from the ship.
They had been two years and
a month away from home, but
even then they were impelled to
poke their way up to the
Merauke Coast before they bore
away for Java and came sailing
up through Sunda Strait under
the shadow of Krakatoa. It was
on July 13, 1771, six weeks short
of three years since he had sailed
out of Plymouth Sound, that
Cook closed his account of the
“remarkable • occurences” of his
voyage with the entry:
Saturday 13th (July, 1771):
At 3 oClock in the PM Anchor’d
in the Downs, & soon after I
landed in order to repair to
London.
Not all of them came home.
Banks’s negro servants lay frozen
(Continued on page 30)
COOK'S CHART OF THE EAST COAST
From a reproduction in the atlas to the N.S.W. Historical Records .


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KllV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
<^fcFlLE|
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., tiled in the
■'Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —Or
nnn nltiar narlnrl
Prices and
ther inlormattMl
upas application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diurib using Agent! —
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Norman Broo. ftf. Lt 4
Vardon Frit* U<
Dnkti Book Ca
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings~variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Neville Sellwood made a
special visit to Brisbane to ride
New Zealander King’s Fair in
the Doom ben N ewmarket,
which race was expected to
throw some light on prospects
for the Q.T.C. Stradbroke
Handicap, to be run on June 2,
the principal sprint-contest of
that Brisbane carnival. What
the Doomben event did indicate
was that a Queenslander, Regal
Dignity, is well in the Strad-
broke picture.
King’s Fair, drawn wide at
the barrier, was made a warm
J:avOrite —on his reputation and
fine form—but he was never a
hope, and finished in the ruck.
Regal Dignity, an outsider, and
drawn even wider at the barrier,
won impressively. Regal
Dignity’s wins include the last
Queensland Derby, so he’s a
good mixer.
Doug Weir had his best metro-
politan day so far when, last
Saturday, he piloted three Can-
terbury winners, Krishna,
Golden Figure and Granita, all
trained at that track by Jack
Denham. Weir has ridden 20
winners in the city area this
season, but he has also piloted
many others at provincial fix-
tures. His brilliant riding of
Golden Figure and Granita was
a feature of the Canterbury
racing.
Most of the Rumleigh stable’s
winnings in the Canterbury Two-
year-old Handicap Went on to
its representative, Grand Charles,
in the Shangri-La Handicap,
main distance-event of the after-
noon. Grand Charles had been
successful at Rosehill a week
earlier, starting at 20’s after 50’s
had been laid. Brave Scot, how-
ever, proved too solid at the
weights. The winner was capably
ridden by J. Thompson. It was
Brave Scot’s first win in open
company, but won’t be his last.
Rumleigh is likely to go to Bris-
bane for the two-year-old races
in June.
Though Rumleigh" (one of
Sydney’s most consistent two-
year-olds and winner of the
Breeders’ Plate) met Merry
Emperor on 51b. better terms
than when the latter finished
ahead of him at Randwick on
Anzac Day (Royal Society beat
both) the public made Merry
Emperor favorite for the Canter-
bury event. Rumleigh won very
easily. Royal Maureen (winner
of the A.J.C. Widden Stakes)
indicated an early return to the
winning-list by running on well
into third-place. Rosebery trainer
Clem Guy has that filly in
excellent trim.
Lucky Stride won’t be long in
returning to best form, judging
by his display at Canterbury
Park. He competed in the South
Pacific Handicap —the ' race-
name marking the visit of
American Lieut.-General J. H.
Doolittle, who was given a rous-
ing reception as he handed over
the trophy to winner Criollo’s
trainer Jim Mackinnon, who
prepares the sprinter for Mes-
dames V. M- Davis and T. M.
Gads by. Lucky Stride was
having his first start since fail-
ing in the V.R.C. Newmarket,
prior to which he had won the
Oakleigh. While his condition
lasted Lucky Stride, one of Bill
Kelso’s team, did well, but he
faded in the straight. He was
backed in from 7’s to half that
price. He is among the smartest
early-morning workers at Rand-
wick.
Recent instances at Randwick
of jockeys losing stirrup-irons
were added to at Canterbury,
when apprentices B. Howlett and
J. Hanneybel both lost their irons
at the start of the South Pacific
Handicap. Juggler appeared the
best of things beaten. He drew
No. 1 at the barrier, but instead
of being in or near the lead was
last in the first few strides ; yet
he finished a close fourth.
Form-horse of the field, Gay
Valognes, had an easy win in
the Warwick Farm First Maiden
Handicap for two-year-old colts
and geldings when the A.J.C.
held the first of its mid-week
fixtures there. Trainer Reg
Battersby, who bid 750gns. for
Gay Valognes at the Randwick
sales last year, prepares the
youngster for Mr. and Mrs.
H. E. Jacobs. By Valognes (imp.)
from Merrie Merton, the Farm
winner is bred on speed-lines.
Merrie Merton, a Gimcrack
Stakes winner, is a sister to
Warspite and Captivate, smart
Randwick winners in their day.
She’s a Golden Sovereign
(imp.) mare from Gloriole by
Heroic, and comes from the
family which produced Gloam-
ing.
Winner of the Warwick Farm
Second Maiden Handicap for
two-year-old colts and geldings,
Dipso is raced by Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Brown, and is trained
at Randwick by Pat Murray.
J. A. Mitchell, of Santa Rosa
stud, Longburn (N.Z.), bred
Dipso, who is by Ruthless (imp.)
from Blissful Lady.
New Zealand breeder T. C.
Lowry, of Okawa, Hawkes Bay,
accepted the final bid of 975 gns.
by Randwick trainer T. J. Smith
for the yearling filly by Faux
Tirage (imp.) from Recipient at
the Dominion sales in January,
1955. Now racing as Sail and
carrying the colors of E. B. and
J. Kornhauser, the filly opened
her winning-account at Warwick
Farm in the Maiden for two-
year-old fillies.
Comic Court two-year-old
colts finished first and second
in the Ferndale Handicap (one
mile) at Flemington on Satur-
day, though they did not finish
in popular order, Droll Prince,
20 to 1, defeating Comic Lad,
7 to 4. Droll Prince is from
Ismalia by Portofino (imp.)
from Amalia (a noted stayer and
winner of the Australian,
Williamstown and Port Adelaide
Cups). Ismalia also threw
Chitral, winner of £10,427 in
stakes.
Despite his two wins from
three prior starts, former Sydney
middle-distance galloper First
Century was not greatly fancied
for the Flemington Koorlong
Handicap, which he won well,
though giving Williamson a
tough ride. Williamson rode
three winners, bringing his total
for the season to 39.
Mac’s Amber, narrow winner
of the Flemington Terrace
Handicap for three-year-olds
(1£ mile), comes from a staying
family. Trained by T. Lewis for
P. and N. Rockman, and winner
at his prior start also, he’s by
imported Amber from Duvach
by Foxbridge (imp.), and is a
half-brother to Melbourne Cup
winner Hiraji.
Australian Edgar Britt added
“ Don’t touch, lady — I'm playing through!"
another win in England to his
fine tally there when at the
weekend he landed the One
Thousand Guineas at New-
market on Honeylight, owned by
Sir Victor Sassoon and trained
by Captain C. F. Elsey.
It’s seldom that jockey
brothers serve their apprentice-
ship under the same master, but
E. and A. Clarke are indentured
to Rosebery mentor Fred Hood,
who, with a big team in work,
has taken over new quarters
adjacent to Randwick race-
course, though he intends to
retain portion of his team at
Rosebery.
St. Aubins stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), is to be sold on May
14, during Scone race-week.
There are upwards of 40 mares
for sale, as well as sires Hua,
Near Way and Video.
+ +
Landy was expected to pro-
vide a sensation (by smashing his
world-record) in his first mile-run
in the U.S.A., but it was the
other Australian in the event,
St. George (Sydney) runner Jim
Bailey, who provided all the
astonishment. Bailey won in
3min. 58.65ec.; second Aus-
tralian to crack the “4min.
mile.” Landy was second in
3min. 58.75ec., the fifth time in
his last six runs that he’s broken
4min. —and the run when he
missed was the famous 4min.
4.2 sec. in the Australian mile in
March, when he pulled-up during
the race. Bailey wasn’t in the
Landy class before he went over-
seas ; he must have come on
tremendously.
# * *
On Lake Wendouree, Ballarat,
the Victorian eight, heaviest crew
in the race, won the King’s Cup,
and will represent Australia in
the Olympics. Stroke Brian
Doyle also stroked Victoria when
it won in 1954. N.S.W. was
second, threequarters of a length
behind. Also decided on Lake
Wendouree, just beforehand, the
President’s Cup (the Australian
sculling title) was won by young
N.S.W. sculler Stuart Mackenzie
from veteran Merv Wood, who
has unselfishly advised and
assisted the younger oarsman
along in his sculling.
* * *
The Australian cricketers drew
with Worcester. The county’s
skipper, Test-possibility Peter
Richardson, batted through the
second innings of 9-231, for 130
not-out. Benaud, with 160, had
the Australians’ greatest batting
triumph—and, as a pointer to
Johnson’s intelligent captaincy,
his immediate statement that he
would continue to bat Benaud no
higher-up than seventh, as it’s
down the list his hard hitting is
most effective.
♦ * *
“Tom”: The name Bradman
may become famous in a branch
of sport apart from cricket. Sir
Donald’s son, John, now 16, was
runner-up in the Senior Cup in
this year’s St. Peter’s College
(Adelaide) sports. He won the
100yds., 220yds. and 120yds.
hurdles, and second in the
440yds., 220yds. hurdles and the
broad-jump. John is a capable
enough batsman, too.
* * #
Geelong and Melbourne
remain undefeated, with the Cats
still on top of the V.F.L. ladder.
On Saturday they clawed Rich-
mond Tigers, particularly in the
third quarter ; 15.13-10.11. Mel-
bourne stopped Fitzroy’s run,
10.19-9.6. Essendon, in third
place, thwacked St. Kilda, 18.9-
9.23, and Collingwood just lasted
long enough in a torrid
encounter to defeat Footscray,
12.15-11.7. In a thrilling last-
quarter Hawthorn pipped South
Melbourne, 8.11-6.17, and
Carlton beat North, 15.12-13.16.
Port Adelaide and Norwood
met in Adelaide’s grand-final last
year, with Port winning the
premiership by a 10-goal margin.
After the second series,
Saturday before last, the two
teams were top and bottom
of the table, Port the only team
to win both its games, Norwood
the only team to lose twice. One
of Port’s two wins was against
Norwood.
* * *
Randwick goes to the top of
Sydney’s Rugby Union table by
defeating previous leader,
Gordon, 18-6. It was a hard,
even game till the last lOrnin.,
when the Greens ran away with
it. In the other games St.
George defeated University, 6-3 ;
Manly was lucky to beat Drum-
moyne, 11-9; Eastern Suburbs
ran away from Parramatta, 22-3 ;
Northern Suburbs scotched East-
wood, 22-9.
Under floodlights in Brisbane
last Wednesday night Queens-
land Rugby Unionists impres-
sively defeated N.S.W., 16-8. Last
Saturday, in daylight, N.S.W-,
in a game which had its brilliant
moments, reversed the decision,
22-16. N.S.W.’s team wasn’t its
strongest, but Queensland has
improved vastly on its painful
showings last year.
Boomed as a prospective
titanic struggle, South Sydney v.
then-unbeaten Balmain, in Syd-
ney’s Rugby League, fizzled-out
in a 39-4 win for the Rabbit-ohs.'
And 26 of South’s points came
when they were running against
a strong wind, the while Balmain
mustered a penalty-goal!
“Selja”: Talking of fullbacks
scoring tries (B. 18/4/’56). I
can’t give time and place, but
I recall that in the ’thirties two
then well-known Sydney Rugby
Union fullbacks, Les Bedford
(Randwick) and Bede Sutton
(Manly), both crossed for two
tries in a game—not the same
game, of course. Never heard
of any other fullback, Union or
League, ever scoring two tries in
one game.
“Kanimbla”: A lot of
English Rugby Leaguers are dis-
satisfied with the three-yard play-
the-ball rule, which operated in
England in the season just ended,
and is being played (or supposed
to be played) in Australia this
season. Some in England favor
adoption of the Rugby Union
ruck-rule, which requires a
tackled player to release the ball
immediately. Others who argue
that a Rugby Union rule couldn't
be applied to League favor what
is termed the the “two times”
rule, under which a team would
retain possession for two tackles
but would have to hand over the
ball for a third tackier to play.
However, there seems no
reason why the Rugby Union
rule shouldn’t function satisfac-
torily in League. It would cer-
tainly avoid the interminable
“play-the-balls” which, in Eng-
land and Australia, so often
make League games tedious.
* * *
Twenty-year-old South African
Open golf - champion Gary
Player won first-prize of £5OO
in the Dunlop 90-hole profes-
sional tournament at Sunning-
dale (London). Finishing with
a 68 for the last 18 holes, Player
defeated British Ryder Cup rep.
Arthur LeSs by two strokes,
338-340. Nearest Australian was
Bruce Crampton, equal sixth on
353.
* * *
“Lyle”: This year’s N.S.W.
sabre-fencing championship was
contested by the strongest field
ever, New champ, is Paul
Rizzuto, captain of Sydney
University Fencing Club.
Rizzuto is a pupil of Australian
Olympic representative Jock
Gibson, coach at the All Nations
Club.


I.A.C.
NOW OPEN
an issue at par of £2,500,000
currencies from 3 months
to 20 years at your option
INTEREST
CURRENCY
7 to 20 years
4 to 6 years
3 years
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange
INTEREST
5%
4*%
4%
31%
3i%
CURRENCY
24 months
1 2 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange
6% per annum (compounded)
4 to 20 years
Interest automatically re-invested annually
principal more than DOUBLES in 12 years, more
than TREBLES in 19 years.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £40,000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
LTD.
Sydney— Melbourne —Brisbane—Adelaide
Perth—Hobart 55.3.21.
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
6i%
SHORT TERM
5%
CUMULATIVE
6%
PROSPECTUS
may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of
E. S. & A. BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
Trustee for the
Debenture Stockholders
THE PERPETUAL
EXECUTORS & TRUSTEES
ASSOCIATION OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Rright-Eyes
By KEVIN McNAMARA
HE parked the car, but for
a moment sat quite still
in the seat, his hands on
the contoured wheel.
It was no accident he had
picked such a lonely spot. For
Katherine was with him; he
could feel her thigh against his
thigh, could hear her faint
breathing, smell the subtle per-
fume.
He looked ahead at the long
and narrow street. On one side
was a park. Leaves rustled on
sleepy figtrees and crickets sang
love-songs into the cold and
empty air. Each cricket seemed
to be tracing a delicate pattern
of sound on the night, and all
these patterns crossed and spun
a fine, silver web.
Stan looked at Katherine now.
“It’s not bad here, is it?”
“Nice.”
He took his hands off the
steering-wheel. He tried to put
one arm around the girl, but she
gently shrugged him off.
“What’s wrong?”
“I’ve told you before.”
“But we’re engaged. We’re
getting married.”
“That’s just the point.”
“Look, we’ll be married in a
month. What’s the harm in”
“I want that wedding to be
perfect. I want it to be
wonderful.”
He smiled angrily. “Every-
body does it! 1 only want to
kiss you. You know, you’ve
really got to get realistic. This’s
life ; this isn’t a dream.”
“I’ve told you and told you.
Why don’t you understand?”
“I respect you for it. I really
do. But you’re always so close,
and I’ve hardly touched you.
It gets so I think I’ll go nuts if
1 don’t at least . .
“No,” she said emphatically,,
tempering it with a full-lipped
smile. “Definitely not.”
He looked away, his hands on
the wheel again. The crickets
chanted. Ahead, under a street-
light, he saw two men approach-
ing. He watched them with un-
blinking, thinking eyes.
Katherine said, quietly, “I’ve
always dreamed how my wed-
ding would be. How I’d be
dressed in flowing white, and you
there, waiting.” She shook her
head at him. “Don’t think I don’t
know how you feel. I do. But
it seems so silly to spoil things
just for a few minutes of
pleasure. Your pleasure. You
mustn’t be selfish, Stan.”
“So I sacrifice my pleasure so
you can have yours—later. At
the wedding.”
“Oh, don’t be foolish. That’s
illogical.”
“No ; that’s illogical.”
“We’ll never get anywhere,
talking like this,” she said.
“I never get anywhere, any-
time !”
“Sulk, then.”
But now a strange thing
happened, or seemed to happen.
CTAN had been staring down
the road, watching the two
approaching men. All that time
he had kept them in his vision.
But suddenly, unaccountably,
one was standing in front of the
bonnet of the car. He had a
crew-cut, and he leaned on the
nose of the car. He grinned and
raised his hand. “Hi!” he said.
Then he took his arm away
and pushed up the bonnet.
“What’s going on?” Stan put
his hand on the door-handle, but
stopped, frozen, when he saw, at
Katherine’s window, the other
man.
“Need any aid?” said the
man.
Katherine stared straight
ahead. Stan opened his mouth
to speak, but the man got in
first.
“Looks like your car’s broken
down.”
“Where’d you get that idea?”
“It’s not moving.”
While he talked, he'looked at
Katherine. He did not look any-
where else at any time.
Stan opened the door now and
came around to the man who had
his head under the bonnet.
“What do you think you’re
doing?”
“Oh, I’m a mechanic.”
Stan pushed at him. “Get out
of here!”
“Please don’t handle the
merchandise,” he laughed, “or
I’ll flatten you like a tack.”
The man stood away, smiling,
watching, as Stan closed the
bonnet.
“I don’t think I finished fix-
ing it,” the man said. “You didn’t
give me time.”
Stan did not answer; he went
around and got into the driver’s
seat, slamming the door. He
pressed the starter. Nothing
happened.
The man at Katherine’s
window said, “My name’s Rick,
what’s yours?”
She didn’t answer.
“Aw, come on.”
Stan half-opened the door, but
the second man was there now
and he pushed it shut again.
“You stay inside. It looks like
rain.”
“What’d you do to the car?”
“I told you to let me fix it. I
told you it had broken down.
Damned if I’ll help you at all
now.”
“How old are you?”
“Why?”
“You’re one of those bodgies.”
“Hey, Rick. I’m a bodgie.
Write it down. Glad Sam’s a
bodgie.”
BUT Rick talked to the girl:
“I’ll call you Bright-eyes.
You remind me of someone
called Bright-eyes. It’s a beauti-
ful name.”
“Leave us alone. Go away
and leave us alone.”
“Say ‘Please.’ ”
“Leqve her alone,” said Stan.
“Shut your mouth,” said Rick.
Stan heaved against the door.
It budged maybe an inch, no
more. “Just let me out, that s
all. Just let me”
Sam smashed the door shut
again.
Rick looked at him for the
first time. “Why, you want to
be a hero?”
“You’re a pair of two-bob
lairs.” . „
“Doesn’t answer the question.
“He doesn’t look like a hero to
me,” said Sam. “He looks like a
book-reader. A big, thick book-
reader^
“That’s rawther ambiguous,”
said Rick, pulling his face out
of shape.
“He knows what I mean," said
Sam.
“I read books,” said Rick.
“Huxley and all. Hot stuff, but
classy.”
“If you weren’t gutless, you d
let me out,” said Stan.
“Listen to the hero,” said
Sam.
“Pay no attention, Stan, said
Katherine.
“That’s right, Stan ; pay no
attention,” said Sam.
“I don’t think his name is
Stan,” said Rick. “I think his
name is Charlie. He looks like
a Charlie to me.”
“Is your name Charlie?
asked Sam.
Stan said nothing. He waited,
his hand on the door.
“Listen, Bright-eyes,” Rick
said, “you don’t really want me
to go away, do you?”
Katherine, too, was silent,
biting her lip.
“You’re like Huxley,” said
Rick. “Hot, but classy.”
“I’ll kill you,” Stan said. “I’ll
kill you.” .
“You know what a hero is?
Rick said, looking at him, rais-
ing his eyebrows. “A hero's a
sucker. Like in the Army. You
get knocked-off and they slap up
a monument. And you think that
monument’s for the dead hero-
boys? It’s not. Believe me. It’s
so the safe ones can feel good
when they lay a wreath on it.
I know. Don’t be a hero, Charlie.
Don’t be a sucker.”
“I know your type,” said Stan.
“You put on an act. You’ve got
to put on an act.”
“You’re hopeless, Charlie.”
“He thinks we’re frightened of
him,” said Sam. “He figures
that’s why we won’t let him out.”
“Don’t try anything,” said
Stan.
“But, Charlie, I thought it was
your idea to try something.”
Rick stepped back on the foot-
path. He said to Sam, “Let the
sucker out.”
Sam stepped back. Stan
opened the car door. He was
afraid. His hands did not feel
too steady. His legs trembled.
“Around here, Charlie boy,”
said Rick. “Right around on the
footpath here.”
HE walked around the car. It
seemed to take a long time.
At last, he stood a few feet from
Rick. He knew Sam was behind
him.
“0.K.,” said Rick. “Now
you’re out.”
Katherine suddenly burst out
of the door and ran along the
footpath. Sam ran after her,
grabbed her.
“Let her go!” Stan took a step
forward.
“We won’t touch her, unless
she gives the green-light.”
“I’ll” Stan was running as
he said it, but Rick caught him
easily, whirled him around, hit
him hard in the stomach. The
world turned around. He could
not breathe. He grabbed his
stomach and doubled over.
“Watch this, man,” Rick said.
“This’s a rabbitkiller.”
It was like plunging into a
black, big room. And suddenly
the floor wasn’t there any more,
and you were hurtling down and
down. . . .
Voices came through to him.
They sounded far-off and
strange.
“He’s out.”
“You can kill a man with that
punch.”
“He’s out for quite a while.”
“Put him in the car.”
“You stay there, Bright-eyes,”
And leather cold and smooth
on your cheek. But your head
so numb it feels like a second-
hand sensation.
“So long, Charlie.”
“Sleep tight.”
Sleep. A sick sleep. Dream-
less, but a nightmare just the
same. . .
“C'TAN! Stan! Are you all
right?”
He opened his eyes, and
there was Katherine. He was
going to marry Katherine. It
was the first thought that came
to him.
“I’m all right.”
He put his arm over the seat
and pulled himself upright. Then
he swivelled slowly and rested
his arms on the steering-wheel.
He put his head on his arms.
“They gone?” he asked.
“They’re gone.”
“That’s good. That’s wonder-
ful. Did they hurt you?”
“No.”
“I mean . . .”
“I know what you mean. And
I said no.”
“The car.” He raised Ids
head, turned the ignition-key,
pressed the starter. Thi motor
burst into life.
“They took a part,” said
Katherine. “A wire or mm
thing. But they put it ba
He turned his head, 100 d vt
her, at her pretty face, at 'he
calm expression.
“Why’d they put it back?”
She lowered her eyes, then
abruptly fumbled in her purse
until she found a cigarette. Stan
watched while she lit it. A cloud
of smoke hit the windscreen,
parted, spreading like butter on
the glass.
“Why’d they put it back?”
“I don’t know. I guess they
just had their fun.”
Stan put his arms back
around the steering-wheel. Again
he rested his head on his arms.
The motor gently bumped at his
forehead.
“What’d they do?” he asked.
His voice was hoarse.
“Nothing.
“They just left?”
“I’ve told you, Stan. It’s been
hard enough already; don't
irritate me now.”
“Your dress is wet.”
“Is it? Is it really?”
“How’d it get wet?”
“On the car, I suppose. The
car must’ve been wet.”
“It hasn’t been raining. It’s
gonna rain, but it hasn’t yet.”
SHE was silent.
“Ever notice how moisture
stays in the grass? Grass stays
wet a long time. Sometimes all
day after a heavy dew.”
“Now, don’t be a fool, Stan.”
, “Oh, no. Don’t be a fool,
Stan. Stan mustn’t be a fool.
Stan mustn’t be a sucker.”
“They might’ve killed you.”
“You never know.”
“It wasn’t what you’re think-
ing. It was hardly anything. A
kiss.”
“That’s nice. That’s great.
What a relief!”
“After all, it didn’t cost any-
thing.”
“You’re sure of that?”
“Of course.”
“I’m glad you’re sure of that.
Because I’m not.”
“Stan, look at me.”
“I don’t want to look at you.”
He pressed his eve c harder into
his arms, and the motor jarred
his brain.
“Stan.” She put her hand on
his neck, but he suddenly
straightened his head and
brushed it off.
“Just let me alone!” he said.
“All right. If that’s the way
you want it.”
“You wouldn’t let me even
touch you. Wouldn’t even let
me hold your damn’ hand. Just
holding me off for that white-
wedding. That’s busted now.
Stan manipulated the gears, the
pedals, and the car moved off.
“That Rick was right. I’m a
sucker.”
Katherine smiled. “This is
life; this isn’t a dream. Be
realistic. Isn’t that what you
said?”
.She laughed, because it was
suddenly funny to know that
Stan was the one who wanted
the white-wedding ; that she was
the one who had to pretend.
“I don’t see anything to
laugh at,” said Stan. “Nothing
at all to laugh at.”
And he drove blindly along the
twisted streets, winding down the
window later, when it began to
rain.


ALi 4i
7*
1
I
ano£-
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phone: BWlOll, BWIOI2, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of Genera! Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R* G. GALE,
A- C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANION.
Manager.
Branches and Agencies In all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Approved killing
in Mississippi
A 14-year-old Negro, Emmett
Till, was routed from his bed
by two white men and shot
yet the jury found his abduc-
tors not guilty.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you facts in the notorious
‘'Wolf-Whistle Murder” . . .
facts the jury never heard, no
U.S. newspaper printed.
1 * The one sure way to re-
duce” is another May feature,
bringing scientific evidence that
if you exercise regularly you
can have your cake a&d your
figure, too! Then there’s "How
to cope with loneliness” and a
wealth of other articles of
lasting interest in this -month’s
Reader’s Digest, only 2/-, at all
newsagents and bookstalls. Get
your copy today.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-83 Hitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S BUDGET
DRITISH Chancellor . Mac-
millan’s first Budget had a
fairly good reception from the
press, with (as the following
typical comment indicates) the
main criticisms levelled at the
increase iri profits-tax and at
the innovation of “premium-
bonds” :
London “Financial Times”:
“Mr. Macmillan has produced
the most austere Budget since
Sir Stafford Cripps left the
Exchequer. He has budgeted
for the largest ordinary surplus
since 1950-51, and if he had not
brought the nationalised indus-
tries into the capital-side of the
account he would have had a
small overall surplus as well.
“This will not necessarily by
itself be enough to stop infla-
tion. Indeed Sir Stafford Cripps,
for all his austerity, did not
manage to do so. Nevertheless,
it does mean that the Chancellor
is playing some part in reducing
the Government’s need to
borrow.
“Few are likely to criticise
this Budget for being too lenient
or for failing to provide for an
adequate ordinary surplus.”
The same: “The Chancellor
has recognised the overriding
importance of encouraging
savings, and he has done all that
could be expected to help them.
Almost equally important, how-
ever, is his promise of a new
review of Government expendi-
ture designed to produce cuts of
not less than £lOO million. Low
savings and excessive Govern-
ment expenditure have been
two of the country’s main
economic weaknesses.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “No
one can call Mr. Macmillan’s
Budget ‘tough.’ Twopence on
the price of a packet of
cigarettes, another on the
loaf of bread from next October,
a little more tax on profits and
a modest rise in family-allow-
ances—these are not heroic
measures.
“He placed greater stress on
savings—‘this is a Savings
Budget,’ he said himself. And
the result of the fresh incentives
offered to savers will only
emerge in the future. Certainly
there are plenty of new attrac-
tions. New savings-certificates
yielding over 4 per cent, tax-
free ; a new defence-bond yield-
ing 4+ per cent, and a cash
premium after a certain period.
Tax-exemption for the first £l5
of income from deposits in the
Post Office and Trustee Savings
Banks. Then there is the tax-
relief for the retirement-savings
of self-employed people and
various other easements.”
The sam^: “The idea of
stimulating the savings-habit is
sound enough. If only private
savings (by companies as well as
persons) could be raised suffici-
ently to cover the enormous capi-
tal expenditure we want to make
inflation could be stopped and
taxes could be reduced. Habits
of thrift have been shaken by
the continual decline in the value
of money as well as by the higher
standards of comfort and ameni-
ties now demanded by our
people. Nothing will do more
to restore the habit than a period
of price-stability. This Budget
will have to be judged, there-
fore, by the contribution it makes
to the ending of monetary
erosion.”
* >i- *
London “Spectator”: “The
Chancellor has made a bad mis-
take [by increasing profits-tax]
which will antagonise industry,
the City [London’s financial
centre] and investors without
gaining any thanks from the
Labor party or the trade-unions.
There was no need in this Budget
to throw any kind of sop to his
political opponents. To try to
do this by increasing a tax which
already does considerable
damage is deplorable. Surely
the Chancellor has not become
so cynical that he regards this
tax simply as a convenient source
of fresh revenue?
“It is difficult to understand
the Treasury’s attitude to this
tax. If it is agreed that industry
must modernise its plant and
factories, then there is little point
in taxing the profits which
finance this modernisation.
Similarly, if shareholders are to
continue to provide some of the
capital for this re-equipment,
why should dividends be further
penalised? It certainly is a
very odd step to take in a
Savings Budget.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ”:
“The increase in the tobacco-tax
and the final abolition of the
bread-subsidy are balanced by
a further increase in profits-tax.
Though Mr. Macmillan justified
this as a means of compelling
companies to save, the profits-
tax in its present form has been
condemned by the Royal Com-
mission on Taxation ; and it is
not made any better by being
increased.”
The same: “The Chancellor
has added the new premium-
bond through which, if it may
be so expressed, the gambling-
passion exploited by the pools
is to be channelled into a
New York “Herald Tribune"
“I'LL HANDLE THINGS FOR A WHILE.”
genuine investment. It will take
apparently at least until the end
of the year to work out the
details of this scheme, but a new
and attractive national savings-
certificate will make its appear-
ance in August. Some financial
pundits may shake their heads
over this scheme’s unorthodoxy,
but that should not interfere with
its success.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Mr.
Macmillan’s first Budget will be
known as the ‘Penny Points’
Budget. The country, which had
been braced for a bold and even
a hard stroke, will realise with
a shock that the Chancellor has
fallen back on the device of the
raffle. Many people have sus-
pected that the major incentive
available to great numbers of
citizens for years has not been
the expectation of prosperity
through zestful leadership but the
tawdry hope that one of the
massive pools-prizes might come
along and relieve the grim
normality. But few could have
expected that the Chancellor
would endorse this sub-standard
view of life and prospects in
Britain.
“The pivot of the whole
Budget, as Mr. Macmillan him-
self emphasises, is the encourage-
ment to savings. That aim is
wholly desirable. But is a nation
truly great which resorts to such
devices as a premium-bond?
“One recalls Burke’s dictum
that ‘a great empire and little
minds go ill together.’ Mr. Mac-
millan argues that the device is
not gambling, since no one will
lose his money. But he is obvi-
ously appealing to the instinct of
fortuitous gain inherent in
gambling. How can the affairs
of a great nation be conducted
on such a basis?”
* * *
London “Observer”: “We are
not among those —probably a
fairly small but very sincere
minority—who find this idea [of
premium-bonds] either immoral
or squalid. Risking the interest
on the ‘stake’ is very different
from risking the stake itself: no
one can ruin himself or his
family by backing the bonds,
and if the hope of a windfall
appeals to people more than the
certainty of a pittance, it is per-
fectly legitimate to cater for their
preference. Good luck to the
bonds!”
* * *
London ‘'Daily Mail”: “Why
he [the Chancellor] should clap
the wine-duty on cider we do
not know —unless it is because
some good old English cider is
made with good old French
apples.”
French Extremists
At the last French elections
the Communists polled 5,500,000
votes and, at the other extreme,
the Poujadists received 2,600,000.
Between them these two parties,
both committed to the destruc-
tion of Constitutional govern-
ment, thus captured practically
one-third of the seats in the
French Assembly.
Asked by “U.S. News and
World Report” for his estimate
of this situation, French Socialist
Premier Mollet answered that
“There are hardly 250,000
Frenchmen who know what
Communism is”:
“There are not 50,000 French-
men who have read Karl Marx.
n CaUSe We " e ,he , countr >' o£
Descartes everyone here has to
have an opinion and be either
for or against. That’s our logic,
It is pretty grotesque, but that
is the way it is. It is true in the
U.S., too, where everyone is
anti-Marxist without having
read five lines of Marx
“The Communist vote can
certainly be reduced. The people
who vote Communist have
always done so for two or three
reasons.
“One basic reason: They are
discontented. They are people
who are unhappy or who feel
unhappy. One is not always
unhappy in any absolute manner,
but in a relative manner, rela-
five to others. The feeling of
injustice is sometimes more
violent than the feeling of
misery. And it is those people,
who feel themselves to be
unhappy, who always have a
tendency to vote for those who
protest the most. Those are the
votes that go to the Communists,
to the Poujadists. They vote at
the extremes. That is the first
reason.
“Second reason: The Com-
munists have known, very intelli-
gentiy very adroitly, how to
pose as the champions of peace.
“Third reason: It is our fault,
it is your fault, it is the fault of
all those who continue to de-
nounce Communism without
knowing what it is. The idea of
the community, the idea itself
of Communism, is attractive to
the workers.
“If the deviations from the
Communist idea, the dictatorial
deviations of Bolshevism, were
denounced, we could reach the
workers. But if you denounce
Communism as such you cannot
dissuade the workers.”
Asked if he thought the
Poujadists could become a
danger in France, Mollet added,
“They can become a real
danger”:
“As always in France, when
there are the odors of Gesarism,
then there is always a group of
malcontents who, instead of
voting Communist, vote for a
demagogic movement. We must
not deceive ourselves, however.
There are not more of them
today than before the war. In
1936 Colonel de la Rocque
received 1,600,000 votes, and
women did not have the vote
then. Multiply that number by
two and you see that De la
Rocque had more support than
the 2,600,000 votes Poujade got
this time.
“Poujadism is similar to the
Communist situation. The
people who vote for Poujade are
not Fascists. They are discon-
tented. What is more, they have
valid reasons for their discontent,
especially the little shopkeepers
who are starving in certain
regions of France.
“They suffer from an abomin-
able tax-system. The French
tax-system is perhaps the most
unjust in the world, and my
Government has the intention of
reforming it profoundly. It is
based on indirect taxes which
hit the low-income groups. These
people surely are not Fascists.
But the methods employed by
their leaders anti-Semitism,
racism, anti-Pariiamentarianism
—these are typically Fascist
methods.”
Russia and the Middle
East
Taking a more sanguine view
of the Russian social and
economic penetration into the
Middle East than many do, Lon-
don “Economist” sums-up the
Russian campaign as being likely
to offer the Middle Eastern
States all the advantages previ-
ously provided exclusively by the
West.
For the West the “blissful era
of non-competition” ended in
1955, and Russia will now be


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .... 2/.-
Yearly Subscription... ... 22/6
ANOTHER GREAT KODAK PRODUCT
high-speed Bn
KODAK TRI-X
&
. . . gets those
difficult pictures
iii
m
8
W.,:x
mm
;
: 111
HI
W:.: ; x
:
um.
f
W\:* y “
.
• Taken at 1 /50 th
sec., f/4, by daylight
inside room.
if Famous overseas —now made in
Australia to exacting world standards.
Fastest amateur film yet—panchromatic,
too!
if Gets the pictures you wouldn’t attempt
before —allows faster shutter speeds for
action shots.
★ Permits more and better pictures in avail-
able light—indoors, on dull days, at night.
if Gives greater versatility and performance
to every adjustable-type camera.
it Available in 135, 127, 120, 620 and 828
roll film sizes. Prices the same as those
previously for Kodak Super-XX Film.
BOX CAMERA
non-adjustable
USERS . . . Kodak TRI-X Film is so fast that it is not recommended for use in
and box-type cameras in bright sunlight.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR THE FREE TRI-X BOOKLET!
YOUR KODAK DEALER HAS TRIX'
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD. Branches in all States. Kodak Dealers Everywhere.
competing with “investment,
grants-in-aid, long-term credits,
construction at cut-prices and
training in universities.”
The purpose of the Russian
campaign, the “Economist”
notes, is obvious:
“Its twofold aim is, first, to
surround the West with em-
barrassments and uncertainties
in the area on which it depends
for 80 per cent, of Europe’s oil-
London “Daily Mail"
“FEELTHY WORDS, MIST AH?”
supply; and, secondly, to pro-
tect the ‘soft underbelly' of
Caucasian Russia against danger
from neighboring Western
alliances and bases. The only
mystery about it is why it did
not start sooner.
“At least for the present its
strength lies in the fact that,
offering a bounty, it [Russia]
asks a quid pro quo which is
much more attractive in most
local eyes than that traditionally
asked by Britain ; it requires, so
far, mere neutralism, instead of
alliances and military-facilities/’
So far, the paper adds, the
West’s reaction has been to
assume that the Soviet economic
penetration must set Western
competitors at a complete disad-
vantage and cause them to think
in terms of outbidding the Soviet
everywhere, whatever the cost:
“But this course is, in the
long run, out of the question,
even for the long purse of the
United States.
“There are no means of pre-
venting a Soviet commercial and
economic drive, even if there
were justification for trying.
Measured in economic terms,
the drive is negligible as yet;
its significance is political. But
behind it lies an economy that is
expanding fast and that can
already produce surpluses for
export by dint of pegging and
retarding the rate of improve-
ments at home.
“Its ultimate expansion is in-
evitable, and the only course for
its Western rivals is to look on
the bright side and to lay early
plans for resilient competition,
ranging from better goods for
the money to a better welcome
for the Asian trainee in
Birmingham than in Tashkent.
May not the West even derive
some advantage if the Soviet
Union, called upon to fulfil some
of its offers, is forced out of the
glittering role of princesse loin-
laine and into that (before the
war reserved for Britain, but now
also shared by America) of
visible, detested benefactor?’’
The outlook would, the
“Economist” continues, “be
much more pleasant if the long
Soviet hibernation of 1946-55
had proved eternal”:
“But it is not and could not
be so. Developments that cannot
be avoided must be lived with,
and the Western world must
comfort itself with some pieces
of reckoning that have yet to
be proved wrong. One is that
the capacity of Asia and Africa
to absorb aid is inexhaustible ;
and that if Soviet roubles are,
tor the first time, to be sunk
in investments far removed from
the Soviet border they may turn
(as corresponding Western invest-
ments have turned) into a
guarantee that the new investor
will become as interested in tran-
quillity and security as is the old.
“The other is that should the
Soviets foot even a part of the
enormous bill, the Western
Powers may be free to invest
their contributions more gener-
ously in the territories of people
who share their view that Soviet
totalitarianism is a threat to
independence.”
German Unity
In claiming most of the
world’s attention lately, Middle
East events have tended to
obscure the problem which still
lies at the heart of Europe—the
reunification of Germany but,
as Fritz Erler, Social Democrat
member of the German
Bundestag, points out in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,” the
problem is still a major factor
in German thinking, and likely
to remain so.
The popular meaning of
reunification, Erler points out,
“is the integration of the
Federal Republic, Berlin and
the Soviet Zone”:
“Actually, however, under
international law the Germany
which was at war with half the
globe has been split up into
much more than three pieces.
These are:
“The Federal Republic, the
German Democratic Republic,
West Berlin, East Berlin, the
Saar, the territories under Polish
administration (beyond the Oder
and Neisse) . and North-East
Prussia, annexed by the Soviet
Union.
“This ‘balkqnisation’ of Ger-
many cannot last for ever. It
is bound to be a continuous
source of unrest in Europe. A
great people cannot be deprived
of its natural right to live to-
gether under a single roof. In
the meanwhile, however, Ger-
many has become the advance-
post of both the great military
blocs. Here the cold-war
assumes its most violent forms.
Here the Intelligence-services
and propaganda-organisations of
both sides are busily at work.
“In the Soviet zone,” Erler
adds, “the Communists put their
hopes on the younger genera-
tion. The uprising of June 17,
1953, proved that the vast
majority of the population is
against the Communists and that
the present regime would not
stand a chance in free elections.
But the steady stream of refugees
migrating westward, totalling
more than 300,000 annually, de-
prives the Soviet zone of the
most active elements in the
struggle against Communism.
The more passive elements which
remain behind lose hope for
reunification and thus for libera-
tion ; they adjust themselves to
the regime in order to safeguard
their existence and that of their
children. Each year a new
batch of young people finishes
school.
“Those who are 35 today were
12 when Hitler came to power,
which means that half the popu-,
lation has had no personal
experience with democracy in
action. Under Communism they
feel as though they were under
a foreign Power ; but since they
have not been brought up in a
democratic way of life, they do
not know what it is to feel that
one is a citizen responsible for
oneself and for the community.
“The longer reunification is
delayed the more chance the
Communists have to profit from
this development. It is true that
they lose an important economic
force each year through the
migration to the West, but in
compensation their zone gains
in uniformity and political
reliability. If this, process con-
tinues the zone will be lost in
the long run for the side of
freedom.
“But how can Moscow’s grip
be broken? No Germans, except
for a very few Communists, are
willing to sacrifice West
Germany’s political freedom for
the sake of unity. Both the
Government and the Opposition
are in agreement that the goal
should be unity and freedom.
But it must be attained by peace-
ful means only. A war would
not unite the German people
but destroy them, and perhaps
all civilisation as well. Neither
Germany nor any other nation
would wish to lose its life for
German unity.
“Thus reunification can be
accomplished only by agree-
ment, which means agreement
among the four Powers who
defeated, occupied and split
Germany and whose armed
forces are still in Germany. All
four of them have to agree. A
peaceful solution cannot be
reached by three Powers and the
Germans against the Soviet
Union or by the Soviets and the
Germans against the West. A
solution must be found which
is acceptable to all four Powers
and to the Germans.
“Why should the four Powers
be interested in bringing about
German reunification?
“The West must know that if
17,000,000 people now living
under Communist domination
could gain their freedom this
would be a supreme historic
accomplishment. Also, London
and Paris would sleep more
soundly if Russian troops and
air-bases were moved back a
few hundred miles. Peace could
be organised on a more solid
basis if Germany no longer
figured as a source of unrest.
Also it would then become pos-
sible to create a healthy Europe,
because its heart would again be
working. And, finally, demo-
cracy can be stabilised in Ger-
many only when the people are
no longer divided.
“On the Soviet side it will be
important to find an interest
overbalancing the loss of the
Communist regime in the Soviet
zone. Moscow must decide
whether friendship with the
whole German nation is not
worth much more than the
domination of only a part and
the hostility of all.
“Of interest to Soviet Russia
also would be the removal of
sources of unrest along her
borders and the removal of
hostile military alliances from
her door. Further, however,
Germany will have to investigate,
together with the Western
Powers, whether the Soviet
Union has any economic
requirements which we might
meet without surrendering vital
interests.
“Finally, the Soviet Union at
present seems to be interested in
a policy of relaxing tensions.
Such a policy is bound to fail
if tensions increase in Germany.
Whether these various motives,
taken together, will tempt the
Russians can be discovered only
if the Federal Republic conducts
the necessary talks, in full accord,
of course, with the Western
Powers.”
Various Voices
M. Jean Royer ( G.A.T.T.’s
executive-secretary): “It is impos-
sible to hope that trade between
the new countries of the world
and the industrialised countr
can again become what it was
before. The exporters and
Governme s of the ■
trialised. countries must realise
the changes which have taken
place in trade-connections be-
tween these -two groups of
countries and adapt their pro-
duction- and trade-policies.”
The Earl of Home ( U.K. Sec-
retary of State for Common-
wealth Relations): “So long as
the Communist bloc is armed to
the teeth the free peoples must
be prepared to fight. It is, in fact,
only since the West showed
determination to match strength
with strength that Russia has
shown the first signs of agree-
ment to coexist. The cold war
must be expected to endure.
Wherever there is political in-
stability Russia will stir the pot.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find . enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
the hill and down into the salt-
water. I never seen that bunyip
since my poor old Dad died.
It was the last people of the
tribe who left him there. You
don’t often see him. He only
shows himself to certain fellows.
You- can , hear him panting:
“Hah-hah-hah.”
« He travels around, up and
down the coast as far as Kemp-
sey, looking for anyone who has
done anything wrong. When he
bites you, you die. He’s even
been seen in Victoria, at Lake
Tiah Mission.
Abley Wood
and the
Two Bugeens
A BLEY WOOD was a terrible
** good runner and walker. He
was the best on all the South
Coast. He could race the horse-
drawn mail-coach from Ulladulla
to Bermagui and down to Bega.
No other man could pace it with
Abley Wood. He could run or
walk any other man into the
grourid.
One day Abley was out duck-
shooting. He was sneaking-up on
to a big mob of ducks
at Woolumboola Lake. In
those times there were
thousands of black-ducks. He was
sneaking - up, sneaking - up
through the tea-trees with
branches pushed down into the
back of his coat and a branch
held up in front of him.
As Abley was sneaking-up on
to the ducks, two blackfellows,
one tali and the other one short,
were sneaking-up on to him.
Now, Abley’s moodjingarl was
the plover. As he sneaked-up on
the ducks, he could see that they
were getting anxious. The ducks
were whistling and ruffling up
their feathers and getting ready
to fly.
Suddenly Abley’s moodjingarl,
the plover, sang out: “Kurra-
karrak! Kurra-karrak! ”
At once all the ducks rose in
a big dark cloud and went
streaming and wheeling out over
the lake.
As Abley came back out of the
tea-trees, he saw those two black-
fellows. They were black and
shiny, black as a billycan.
Abley shouts out to them,
“Stand, or I’ll shoot!”
, Those two blackfellows still
kept coming on. Abley up with
the breech-loader, sighted them
both, and fired. As he did, the
barrel of the breech-loader split
open. Through the smoke, Abley
could see those two men coming
straight for him. He dropped the
breech-loader and turned and
ran for his life.
For ten miles he ran. He ran
down to the seashore and ran
fast over the hard sand. Those
two blackfellows ran through the
sandhills. They kept coming
out of the sandhills and heading
Abley back along the sea-shore.
At last Abley was getting close-
up to his shack. He ran harder
than he had ever run before.
Suddenly he turned and raced
in across the sandhills. The door
of his shack was open and he
flung himself in through the
doorway. Those two black-
fellows were right on his heels
As Abley fell through the door-
way, they threw the guneena, the
devils’-stones, at him. Abley fell
down in the doorway as though
he were dead.
When the old-man of Abley’s
tribe saw this, he sang out to
all the other blackfellows. They
jumped up out of their shacks
and mia-mias. They grabbed
their spears and boomerangs and
took off after those two men.
All day and all night Abley’s
tribe chased those two black-
fello ’s. They never caught
them. Those two men had too
much power. They were bugeens.
The tribe came back all wet and
tired-out. But the old-man of
Abley’s tribe was very clever. He
took the guneena out of Abley.
The old-man drew a sharp bone,
like a needle, out of him. After
that Abley got better again.
You know my mate, Harry
Carpenter, who was picking
beans with me today? Well,
when Harry Carpenter was a
baby, his mother, grandmother
and great-grandmother were out
fishing for groper and rock-cod
at Jerrywaddy Point at Jervis
Bay,
The great-grandmother was
very clever. She feels that some-
thing is wrong. She says to the
mother, “You go and look at
the baby.”
When the mother goes to the
baby, she finds that it is vomit-
ing green vomit. Then the great-
grandmother says, “We must
leave this place. The baby has
been bitten by a gooin, a spirit.”
They take the baby away to
a clever old-man. The old-man
takes two long teeth out of the
baby’s neck.
You ask Harry Carpenter to
show you. He still has those
two teeth-marks in his neck.
Uncle Abraham
and the
Doonoots
A/fY Uncle Abraham, whose
blackfellow - name was
Minah, was a great cricketer.
One time, all our people
travelled from Wallaga Lake to
Bermagui to play cricket. Uncle
Abraham was the last one to
arrive at Bermagui. While he
was travelling he saw a woman
on the road. This woman was a
muleemah, a man dressed in
women’s clothes.
Uncle Abraham said to him-
self, “It’s a bugeen.”
He goes around the back of
this muleemah and comes out on
to the road again. As he is walk-
ing along the road he sees this
muleemah again in front of him
walking along in women’s
clothes. Again Uncle Abraham
goes round and gets past this
muleemah. When he gets to
Bermagui he tells everyone that
he was caught by a muleemah.
Uncle Abraham plays cricket,
and his side wins the game. Then
they all go back to the mission
at Wallaga Lake.
There Uncle Abraham gets
sick. He gets a little-bit better,
then he gets sick again. My
father, old Jacky Mumbulla,
takes him to Bega, and they
camp down the river, near the
bridge, under the big sheoak.
In the morning old Jacky
takes him to the doctor. But the
doctor lqoks at hmi and says, “I
can’t cure you, you’ll have to go
home to your own doctor.”
Old Jacky took him
back .down the river and
they camped that night under the
big sheoak again. In the night
a limb cracks, it breaks off from
the top of the tree and falls
straight through the camp and
sticks up in the ground.
Old Jacky travels back with
Uncle Abraham and takes him
home to Wallaga Lake. They go
to Mosquito Point and the two
old-men put up their camp there.
Old Jacky makes a fire and all
the doonoots, the mopokes, call
out: —
No sleep, no smoke,
no sleep, no smoke,
gook-gook, gook-gook.
The doonoots were calling out
and killing Uncle Abraham.
They were tying his guts up. The
old-man was dying fast. Old
Jacky put more wood on the
fire, but the mopokes flew up
and perched on the camp-poles.
Gook-gook, gook-gook,
no sleep, no smoke,
gook-gook, gook-gook,
they called out.
Old Jacky grabbed the fire-
sticks and pelted them at the
mopokes. He knocked one of the
birds dow'n from off the camp-
poles. He picked the mopoke up
and chucked him in the fire to
burn alive and to stop the doo-
noots from killing the old fellow.
But all night until daylight the
doonoots sing out: —
Gook-gook, gook-gook,
no sleep, no smoke,
gook-gook, gook-gook.
When daylight comes the poor
old-man had passed away in the
mia-mia camp. They took him
away and buried him and saw
him no more.
The Gold of
Billy Bulloo
/'ALD Billy Bulloo was a clever
old-man.
He had three wives.
He would never go out fishing
on a calm day. But if the sea was
rough, mountains - high, he
would jump in his canoe and
get his fish —spear ’em. He
could see the fish in the waves.
A mullet, he never travels in
the calm. He waits for the wind
to blow a gale. Soon as ever
he feels that wind on him—cold
—he jumps out of the water.
He’s feeling for that westerly
wind. When that wind blows,
you see the water black with
leaping mullet, thousands and
thousands of leaping mullet.
That’s when old Billy Bulloo
used to get his fish.
Old Billy Bulloo used to travel
across-country to the Burra-
gorang Valley tribe. He found
the gold on the Shoalhaven. He
used to come down with enough
to get tucker for four or five
weeks. He would go to the pub-
lican in Nowra and trade his
gold for tucker or a bottle of
rum.
Lots of white men tried to find
out where he got the gold. They
used to follow him up, but when
he got to the bush he would lose
them. They never found out
where he got the gold.
The last one he told was my
old granny. While she was in
her health and strength she
wanted to take us out and show
us where it was.
But you know what young
fellows are: they’re here today
and gone tomorrow.
and dead in Patagonia; Gore,
Monkhouse the surgeon, Sydney
Parkinson the artist, Green and
many more lay at Batavia or m
the sea.
Seventeen years later almost to
the day Phillip was sending
Captain Hunter round the jvorld
from Botany Bay through
Antarctic wastes of snow and ice
in the little sixth-rate Sirius to
assure that the British settlement
in starving Botany Bay would
survive. . . .
The Hakluyt volume whicfl
tells Cook’s tale should be
standard equipment in Australian
schools and libraries. It pro' ides
the first real standard text, ana
from an original documen
which is Australia’s P r f
possession in its National
Library.
Tarpot and the Duke
by sol
wynmanll
WITHOUT a doubt there
is no more generous
person in all of New
Zealand than a huge
Maori who lives in Le Aroha.
His name is Tarpot, simply
Tarpot, nothing more, as far as
anyone can recall.
He is as broad as the entrance
to a one-way traffic-bridge. His
height is there, too, but is not
so noticeable as his breadth.
Tarpot can roll his sultry,
black eyes as though they are
on swivels ; and if some pretty
young maiden signals back
with hers, Tarpot puts on a
display of eye-juggling that no
normal optic - nerves would
permit.
By nature Tarpot is not lazy
if there is work around to be
done. Seldom is there much for
I a:pot to do. His occupation is
rice-planter, but all New
Zealand’s rice is imported. In
between seasons Tarpot earns a
little hay by biting-open oysters
and pippies and sometimes
Brazil-nuts. He can bite the
neck off a beer-bottle, too, but
nobody pays him for that, so
he does not bother, except for
sheer love of sport.
Now, he is really and truly a
most generous specimen, is this
Tarpot. In fact, he is so gen-
erous strangers distrust him.
They become all sparry at his
generosity and say behind his
back that he is trying to buy
friends and that he is going to
stand for Parliament, which, by
the way, is the last thing that
ever enters Tarpot’s mind.
Rice-planting is his game.
The truth is that people never
meet-up with unconditional
generosity until they clap eyes
on big Tarpot.
in Le Aroha there is
\ staying at this particular
time a very famous English
personage with dignity spread
all over his features and much
grace of bearing and pots and
pots of ready hay. He is a
tourist. He is staying at the
Swallow pub because the Salva-
tion Army Home is full, and
there is nowhere better to stay.
It chances that Tarpot has
been drinking in the public bar
of the Le Aroha when he
suddenly decides to have a meal
at the pub and give his o’
wahine, or otherwise his old
woman, a bit of a break.
There are eight people in the
dining-room when Tarpot steps
into it. There is the English
personage and there are seven
waiters.
Tarpot sits down at the same
table as the silver-headed person-
age, who is clad in dinner-jacket
and black bo w - tie and
trimmings.
Tarpot has never seen such
fine dress before, so what does
he do but reach over and tap
the gentile arm and say rather
thickly:
“I say there, mate, not a bad
piece of cloth you got on. Not
too bad at all. Plurry nice, in
fact. Where’s a fellow likely to
pick up a square-yard or so at
a reasonable price?”
The stiff figure looks up from
his meal, delicately adjusting his
hanging monocle into its proper
recess, and scowling so that he
can see.
“I beg your pardon, my man,”
says the personage, “are you
talking to me, by chance?”
“Who else can I be talking to,
mate? The waiters are not
listening. They’re here to biff-
out blottos.”
“I beg your pardon? Are
you some sort of foreigner, or
other Communist? I can’t
understand your language,”
utters the puzzled personage.
'TARPOT wrinkles his brown
brows.
“Forget it, mate,” he says.
“All I says is how much I like
the way you are got-up.
Decked-out like a duke, I’d say.”
“My good fellow, I am a
duke. I am the Duke of
Chichester,” says the personage,
struggling with a wiry-looking
rectangle of roast-beef.
Tarpot laughs, and continues
to laugh as he sees how startled
the Duke looks.
“What’s funny, my man?”
asks the Duke, replacing the
rectangle of beef on his plate in
order to ask the question with-
out offending the man sitting
opposite him. The strings of
old, leathery beef are already
worrying his closely-set teeth.
“Such a funny damn’ place
to be a duke of,” guffaws
Tarpot.
“Chichester, my man, I wish
to remind you, is a place of great
English heritage,” remarks the
Duke coolly. He resumes his
battle with the piece of beef.
“Plurry world-wide heritage,
boss,” says Tarpot, still
laughing.
Suddenly he notices what a
struggle the Duke is having to
chew his meat.
“Say, mate, try these,” says
Tarpot, his generous heart
pricked at seeing another in
trouble.
“Thank you, my good man,”
replies the Duke, holding out
his hand, and not looking up
from his plate.
(~)NLY when the Duke
observes that they are an
outsize pair of false-teeth does
he decline the very generous
offer; and he does so with all
his English reserve and breeding.
So good-hearted Tarpot insists
on paying for the Duke’s meal.


The proper approach
to Bell's
V?A
Sniff it .. • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it • . . Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
/
BELLS
WOW
r ".
wLJBJMm
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd-Distillers, Perth, Scotland - Est. 182 a
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
X-
JACKSONI £
OSUWVAII
(vwuvj
V ’SBMUSX t
trade
MMI
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams , and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Handy Hints fot
the Farm. —6311.
To buy copy of Red Platypus,
probably by a writer late of the
2/32nd Battalion, A.1.F., and pub-
lished about 1946; it is an account of
the 2/32nd in the Middle East and
New Guinea.—63o9.
Words of poem “Heat,” by
Kenneth Mackenzie, beginning:
“Well, this is where I go down to the
river,” .. . . ,
The traveller with me said, and turned
aside
Out of the burnt road, through the black
-6314.
Drawings of horses by Douglas
Fry; also prints of his work and
copies of magazines containing his
drawings.—63ls.
Wanted, cake-decorating designs
(from old magazines, etc.). —6317.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Jessie Jarvis
and her daughter Gladys (married
name unknown), who came to Aus-
tralia several years ago to live with
Mrs. Jarvis’s brother-in-law, lom
Burrows, one-time world-champion
club-swinger. (Mrs. Jarvis’s brother,
Wm. Leonard Best, 5712£ S.
Gramercy-place, Los Angeles, C. 2,
Cal., U.S.A., inquiring.)
To buy copy of Will Ogilvie’s Fair
Girls and Gray Horses.—- 6313.
Loan of letters and manuscripts by
Arthur Hoey Davis (“Steele Rudd”),
clippings of reviews of his books,
articles about him, or other material
that would be of use to person doing
a biography of him. —6316.
“Sydney Mail” of June, 1919, con-
taining full details of the Rugby
League matches played in Sydney at
that time and photographs of the
teams that played in them. —6312.
Does Anybody Know?
If there was once a place on the
shores of Hudson’s Bay (Canada)
named New South Wales?
Information Sought
Some information on the early diph-
theria - vaccination tragedy which
occurred at Bundaberg {Q.) ?
Bundaberg began inoculating chil-
dren with toxin-antitoxin (diphtheria)
on Jan. 17, 1928, with no untoward
effects until 10 days later, when, of
21 children inoculated, 18 became
ill and 11 died on Jan. 28, another
on Jan. 29. A royal commission
investigating the deaths found inter
alia that the toxin-antitoxin issued to
the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories was properly prepared and
sterile, but contained no antiseptic,
and so did not prevent the growth of
micro-organisms accidentally intro-
duced into it. The omission of anti-
septic was meant as a safeguard
against the dangers of the frozen
serum, but the bottle supplied
to the doctor at Bundaberg
was accompanied by no informa-
tion as to presence or absence
of antiseptic. Active immunisation in
Queensland had begun in 1925, and
progressed slowly until the Bundaberg
disaster caused distrust of it. How-
ever, in 1931 the Brisbane City Council
and other local-authorities through-
out the State offered free immunisa-
tion, and a survey by the Queens-
land School Health Services a few
years back indicated that the percen-
tage of schoolchildren who had
received basic immunisation against
diphtheria was 93.88 in the Greater
Brisbane Area, and 89.78 in the rest
of the State. Since the Bundaberg
occurrence no further ill-effects have
been reported. Whereas in the year
before immunisation commenced in
Queensland 731 cases of diphtheria
were notified, in the calendar-year
1954 there were only 82. Further,
the deaths per 100,000 mean-popula-
tion from diphtheria in Queensland in
1925 were 46, a death-rate of 5.5:
in 1954 there were only four deaths
reported, a death-rate of 0.3.
• * * *
Was Banjo Paterson’s poem “Gee-
bung Polo Club” founded on a real
township of Geebung?
Sydney May’s The Story of Waltz-
ing Matilda has this to say on the
origins of the poem: “In the ‘Sydney
Morning Herald’ of 11/2/’39 Banjo
Paterson wrote, ‘When a cavalry
officer came out from England and
started a polo-club, we took to the
game like ducks to water. We played
a match against a Cooma team, real
wild men with cabbage-tree hats and
skin-tight pants, their hats held on
by a strap under their noses.’ The
Geebung Polo Club was written just
after the Cox Brothers came down
from Wagga Wagga and played in
Sydney. They swept everything
before them. They were never beaten.
The Geebung Polo Club as far as is
known is a fictitious title, and the one
locality mentioned, the Campaspe
River, is in Victoria.”
**' * *
I am building a house in the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) area. Neighbors
advise that the ground is infested with
funnel-web and red-back spiders.
Working on it, I verified this when
a brick I kicked over revealed two
scuttling funnel-webs. How to be
permanently rid of them? Will the
council clean them out ?
The picture is very likely not as
black as you paint it. If burrows
can be seen in the open, then it is
highly improbable that they are made
by funnel-webs, but more likely by
the common brown trapdoor-spider
(Arbanitis fuscipes ) or the wolf-spider
(Lycosa godeftroyi), neither of which
is regarded as dangerous to humans.
(You could determine their species
by sending specimens to the Aus-
tralian Museum, College-street,
Sydney.) The red-back lurks in such
dark comers as are provided by out-
houses, watering-cans, tins and
flower-pots. It can be killed by a
direct application of a spray con-
taining 10 p.c. D.D.T. or by a 2 p.c.
soln. of chlordane (Chek Pest), also
a residual spray. Though these sprays
have quite a lasting effect, they are
not guaranteed to rid for all time
in one spraying. It is unlikely that
local councils would have staff to
carry-out control-measures against
spiders, but it may be worth contac-
ting them. Failing their help, try one
of the firms specialising in the killing
of insect-pests.
* * * *
In what way do the Blue Mountains
influence the weather around about
Sydney?
To the Blue Mountains may be
attributed the occasional raging
westerly wind, hot in summer, cold in
winter,-followed within 24 hours by a
southerly that comes up the coast,
and when violent is known as a
“southerly buster.” Across the inland
plains the set of air is usually
easterly; the Blue Mountains divert
this into the upper regions of the
atmosphere, and at that level it flows
continuously above Sydney, north-
easterly winds replacing it at the lower
level. When disturbances further
north interrupt the north-easterly
current, the west wind drops from
the high level to take its place; but
the same lack of pressure that allows
this drop’ also invites an inflow of
cold air from the south, so that the
westerly summer-wind (being hot) can-
not blow for very many hours. In
winter, when both the westerly and
southerly winds are cold, they may
fight out between them for some days
the possession of the low-lying
coastal areas.
* * * *
Is the songlark an Australian bird,
and how can it be identified ?
There are two species peculiar to
Australia. The male brown-song-
lark ( Cinclorhamphus cruralis ) is
about 9in. long, dull brown above
and blackish below ; the female is
much smaller. The rufous-songlark
(C. mat hew si) is 7in. long, brown
above, with a rufous patch at the
base of the tail, and whitish below.
In habits they greatly resemble the
true larks ( Alaudidce ), running on the
ground and rising into the air to pour
forth a melodious song while soaring
upwards ; but they also sing while
perched in trees or flying from one
tree to another. The nest of dry grass
is built on the ground in the shelter
of a tussock ; four eggs are laid,
their ground-color, white, almost
obscured by reddish and purple
freckles. Both species are found all
over the continent (mainly inland).
Neither inhabits Tasmania.
* * * *
Dates and other particulars of fires
in St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney ?
A fire that originated (cause
unknown) near the high altar totally
destroyed old St. Mary’s on the night
of June 29, 1865. No lives were lost,
but one old man had a narrow escape.
An organ, costing £2OOO, and the
Archbishop’s crosses and rings were
destroyed ; vestments, altar vessels
and paintings were mostly saved.
These, however, were burnt in a con-
flagration that destroyed the pro-
cathedral, a temporary wooden build-
ing, on January 6, 1869.
* * * *
How to make a glossy whitewash ?
Slake half-bushel of lime with
boiling water, covering the vessel with
a sack to keep in the steam. Strain
through a fine sieve and add a peck
of salt (previously dissolved in warm
water), 31b. rice (ground to a thin
paste, stirred and boiled), |lb.
powdered Spanish whiting and lib.
clean glue (dissolved in water). Add
sgal. of hot water to the whole mix-
ture. Stir well and stand for a few
days, covered. This whitewash should
be applied hot.
* * k. *
What causes the green ray which
can sometimes be seen as the sun
has set? Under what conditions can
it be seen? Can it be seen at sun-
rise ?
Generally known in astronomy as
the “green flash,” it is due to the
refraction of light in the atmosphere.
This refraction is least in the zenith
and greatest at the horizon. The sun’s
light is made up of the colors red,
orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo
and violet, known as the solar spec-
trum. Just as the last remnant of the
sun is sinking below the horizon, the
red, orange and yellow rays, being
refracted least, do not reach the
earth’s surface, but give that rosy
glow to the upper atmosphere. The
green rays, along with the blue, indigo
and violet, are left when the others
are lost ; but the blue, indigo and
violet are less penetrative and affect
the sensitivity of the eye least, so the
green ray predominates. Given clear
air, fairly distant horizons at a low
altitude (a sea-horizon is preferable),
unfatigued eyes (don’t gaze for long
at the sun), the green flash is visible
in a great variety of circumstances.
It is better seen with a fieldglass than
with unaided vision. It is also equally
visible at sunrise, with the advantage
that the eye is not tired, but the dis-
advantage that one must keep a sharp
watch not to miss the ray.
Brief Answers
N. 5.8.: To repair a broken oil-stove,
take two-parts litharge and one-part
white-lead. Work into a pasty condi-
tion by' using three-parts boiled
linseed-oil and one-part copal-
varnish. Paint thickly on to the
broken edges, press together and
allow to dry for several days
M.8.G.: Six Authentic Songs from
the Kelly Country, collected by John
Meredith and the Australian Folklore
Society and published by the Bush
Music Club, was reviewed on the
“Red Page” of The Bulletin on Dec.
28, 1955. It can be obtained from
John Meredith, 5 Henry - street,
Lewisham.... R.C.: We have a
reader straining at the bit to supply
you with more of the low-down on
artist Camm. If you let us have
your address, he can write direct to
you R.McC.: A mile square is a
square, each side of which measures
1760yds. A square-mile is an area
of any shape containing 3,097,600
sq.-yds. There is no difference in area.
But there is a lot of difference between
two square miles and two miles
square... .H.M.W.: (1) The first New
Zealand Rugby Union team to visit
the British Isles played Scotland at
Edinburgh on November 18, 1905,
winning by 12 to 7. (2) They were
defeated by the Welsh representative
team at Cardiff on December 16,
1905, by 3 to nil. This was the only
loss on the tour... .T.A.J.K.: Write,
to any of the following: Calcutta Co.
Pty., Ltd., 33 Macquarie-place, Syd-
ney; Colquhoun Alexander and Son
Pty., Ltd., 56 Hunter-street, Sydney;
Jute (Export) Co. of Australia Pty.,
Ltd., 204 Clarence-street, Sydney;
Jute Traders Pty., Ltd., 117 Pitt-street,
Sydney.... W.T.S.C.: Thanks for
sending. It is a version, not quite
correct, of the well-known verse by
W. T. Goodge, which, entitled “The
Australian Stockman,” was first pub-
lished in The Bulletin and lately re-
published in Australian Bush Ballads,
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing... .L.J.C.: The pollen of the
dog-daisy ( Chrysanthemum maxi-
mum), of Europe, placed on the
stigma of the Japanese ox-eye daisy
(C. nipponicum), produced the seed
from which the shasta-daisy was
raised. The dog-daisy was the male
parent, the ox-eye the female
J.D.M.: (1) The 1954 florins were
struck by the million. They have
only face-value, and their value is
not likely to increase. (2) The florin
with reverse-upset has no value above
face, but would be kept by collectors
as a curiosity. Many have been
found P.G.: 'Die best time to
prune hydrangeas is in June or July,
cutting back to two eyes on the new
growth made this year. After the
pruning, give the shrubs a dressing of
rotted manure, and water regularly.
A light trimming-off of straggly
branches can be done n0w....
W.G.G.: In four- to five-parts water,
dissolve two-parts crystallised
chloride-of-iron and two-parts solid
chloride-of-antimony: add one-part
gallic-acid, and when solution is com-
plete apply on a brightly-polished steel
surface with a small sponge on a
stick. Let it dry, and repeat two or
three times, then wash in clean, cool
water and dry. Finally, rub with
boiled linseed-0i1... .H.C.M.: The
creditor on whose behalf the solicitor
acted is responsible for the payment
of his costs. You should not have
paid.... R.G.P.: Your war-pension,
though not itself taxable, is taken into
account for the purpose of the age-
allowance amount —hence the re-
assessment. Provided you have re-
ceived the refund-cheque from your
1955 return, you have no legitimate
complaint...-M.McL.: One reason
for the old bush saying that “a
compass loses more men in the scrub
than it brings out” is that in wide,
dense scrubs, especially where there
are steep hills and gullies, it is impos-
sible to follow a line, so that a
compass has a very limited usefulness,
and in inexperienced hands may be
misleading... .W.L.: The Girl at
Birrell’s, by Thos. W. Henry, pub-
lished by Ward Lock, London, in
1896 C.C.: There is little demand
for labor, skilled or unskilled, on
Norfolk Island. The local supply
more than meets requirements
V.W.: The play “Kismet” was
written by Edward Knoblauch and
was first produced at the Garrick
Theatre, London, on April 19, 1911.
H.D.E.: Shovel-nosed rays are
members of the family Rhirtobatida,
and are also known as guitar-fish.
The snout is a broad, triangular,
flattened projection. They are plenti-
ful both in temperate and tropical
waters A.L.: To clear an under-
ground-tank of green slime, bleaching-
powder at the rate of 2oz. or 2-j-oz.
per lOOOgals. water should be mixed
with 4gals. or sgals. water, and this
mixture added in small quantities to
the bulk of the water to be treated,
stirring after each addition to ensure
even and uniform distribution
R.C.: Kookaburras are absolutely
protected, and it is not permissible
to keep them in captivity in New
South Wales A.E.S.: Write Mr.
James H. Boulware, Agricultural
Attache, Embassy of the United
States of America, Canberra, A.C.T.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.C.C.: You tell the old fellow’s
life-story as if you were writing it
for the Dictionary of National Bio-
graphy ... .L. 8.: Having a tooth out
may have been the most dramatic
moment of your life, but readers
would not be interested... .R.M.G.:
Weary of coward who becomes a hero
in the last paragraph S.T.: “The
penetrating anguish of mighty prophet
suddenly articulate.” Gosh!
A.G.L.: No engagement-ring for that
bride in this establishment
JJ.O’B.: Six lines clamor for
admission:
Out where they live on corned beef and
damper,
And drink strong tea from an old quart-
pot;
Out where the frisky young jaekeroos
scamper,
And King Billy and his black lubras
squat.
Out where a man can go on a glorious
spree
And feel happy and contented and free.
P.G.: “The Barmaid’s Baby” is
kicking in the basket S.J.C.: Off
with you and “explore some un-
chartered isle, an isle of lovely and
virgin charm” instead of deploring
the inacitvity of others E.W.H.:
Sort of stuff a youth fed on thrillers
would turn out L.S.: Your bee
moralises too much to be poetic
S.M.D.: About ut, poetic as a railway-
timetable A.P.: It doesn’t rhyme
and it doesn’t scan and there’s
precious little sense in it L.J.G.:
Commonplace, and your handwriting
won’t improve editors’ tempers
M.P.: Even a casual glance at the
paper should have shown you that
we don’t print that sort of nonsense.
F.G.S.: “Six Hours to Live!”
Scotched it in six seconds N.H.:
The poem about the romantic shearer
who “wooed and won the squatter’s
lovely daughter one golden noon
when songbirds softly fluted songs of
tender love” strikes us as infernally
unreal E.T.J.: Sorry to say no,
much as we liked the old charlady.
A.W.: Anyhow, you’re a sound
tipster:
What’s the use of writing all this tosh?
The editor will only say it’s bosh.
E.F.M.: A few fair-to-nuddimg
lines, but it’s hard wo ! rolling *
cask of that size uphill . . J.B. Youi
heart may be “all aglow with
melody,” but you don’t put much ol
it into your poems... .L.S.: Five
lines of your traged;
She sent him to the madhouse,
She did, his bitter, jealous spouse.
And while the street with gossip hisses,
There’s a lot who reckon that his missus
Is the madder of the two.
T.E.McK.: Sounds like what an
eloquent auctioneer’s clerk might do
after a day out with the Naturalists’
Society W. 8.: Have a dismal feel-
ing that your next will be an ode on
an empty beer-bottle... .T.H.: About
as tempting as six-penn’orth of cat’s-
meat... .0.F.: You sigh:—
Although I’m yet within my ’teens
I seem so old, so full of woe,
That life has naught of pleasure for me.
Nonsense, ybu might win the lottery
any day! S.S.: It strikes us about
the limit, even for a tribute to Phar
Lap:
He’s dead! He’s dead ! He’s dead 1
The news it stunned the nation,
And filled all with consternation.
Phar Lap ! Our noble and mighty horse!
Supreme speedster! Embodiment of force !
L.S.: Your nicely-typed offering
about the sinking sun and the bird’s
sweet note all according to catalogue.
Try something. Try something that
hasn’t been rehashed since the begin-
ning of time... .C.H.S.: Can’t use
your indictment of curates who make
eyes at lady organists.... W-V.: No
desire to explore the interior of an
inebriate’s house with so green a
writer... .E.L.J.: Hate to seem
impolite; still, if you can do anything
else, you are advised to do it. . . .
J.McL.: Ten-thousand backblocks
bards at a conservative estimate have
sung “the rattle of the rain upon the
roof” before you... .J.C.M.: Have
read many better “other-pebbles-on-
the-beach” poems... .G. 8.: Reads
more like a page from a stud.


Rubber Rings can be
used for the tailing of
valuable lambs with
the utmost confidence.
Indeed, on one of
Australia’s leading
breeding stations
every stud lamb has
an Elastrator Rubber
Ring fitted on its tail
before it is 12 hours
old. This station
holds the following
impressive show re-
cord—262 first prizes,
102 championships, 24
silver trophies. The
fact that every ram
and ewe taking part
in this record was
tailed by Elastrator
Rubber Rings indi-
cates the high regard
which owners of valu-
able stock have of the
modern bloodless
hygienic Elastrator
tailing method.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
Os
Ift'
sit*"-
BOWt
P*OV?
Tn-cfl'^
3
Vlix?a£(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CAICIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Box 3583,
SYDNEY • SJ>.O. Bo« 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 7SBK. BRISBANE
• GAO Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ANTHRAX STORY
A LTHOUGH there have been
light outbreaks of anthrax
in recent years, losses are now
so small that most stockmen,
particularly the younger genera-
tion, wouldn’t recognise it if they
saw it.
But it was serious enough once,
and from the human angle the
story of the conquest of it in
Australia is interesting, and not
generally known.
Anthrax is said to have been
brought here in bonedust made
from the burnt bones of infected
animals. Its first appearance was
in the County of Cumberland
(N.S.W.) about the middle of
last century. A few years later
there was another outbreak on
the same property, and two men
died after skinning an infected
heifer.
The disease spread rapidly,
and in 1859 it crossed the Blue
Mountains and was carried by
travelling mobs throughout the
western country. By 1877 it is
said to have appeared at
Narrandera,- and from then on
deaths increased in an alarming
manner.
At first these were thought to
be due to some poison-weed,
such as Euphorbia drummondii
(milk-weed). Anthrax was called
“Cumberland-disease’’ from its
place of origin here, and its
symptoms were so vague that
any undiagnosed death was put
down to it.
In 1883 an English veterinary-
surgeon, Anthony Willows, em-
ployed by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment, investigated deaths at
Uarah station on Bundidgerie
Creek, near Grong Grong. He
pronounced them as due to
anthrax. His successor, Edward
Stanley, also visited Uarah and
came to the same conclusion.
The owner of Uarah, Arthur
Devlin, had blamed a weed for
the deaths, but Stanley convinced
him that anthrax was the cause.
The Devlin family also had
Deepwater and Ganmain
stations. These, with Uarah,
covered a huge area, and
normally ran about 220,000
sheep, 4000 to 5000 cattle and
between 500 and 600 horses. In
1885, 42,000 sheep, 500 cattle
and 60 horses died. In 1886,
25,000 sheep, 150 cattle and 20
horses died. In that year, during
the height of the outbreak, 500
sheep and 40 cattle were counted
dead in one day, and 4000 sheep
in a fortnight. At another time,
on Ganmain and Deepwater,
where an average of 120,000
sheep were carried, there were
80,000 deaths from anthrax in
four years. Other runs suffered
almost as severely.
So, naturally, Devlin took an
active interest in anthrax and the
efforts being made to counteract
it. He was an interesting figure.
A noted athlete in his youth, at
this time he was such a big man
that he had a special Abbot-
buggy made with double-springs
on the side on which he sat.
In 1881 the great French
scientist Louis Pasteur had dis-
covered an effective vaccine for
anthrax (or charbon, as it was
called in France). Devlin had got
veterinary books from England,
and had written direct to Pasteur
for some of the vaccine. Pasteur
replied that it would be impos-
sible for it to remain effective for
the period of the voyage, but
said that some scientists from the
Pasteur Institute would shortly
arrive in Australia, at the invita-
tion of the Government of
N.S.W., to test the value of the
dissemination of chicken-cholera
for the extermination of rabbits.
In May, 1888, Monsieur
Adrian Loir (a nephew of Louis
Pasteur), Dr. Germont and Dr.
Frank Hinds (an Englishman)
arrived, and on Pasteur’s instruc-
tions went to Uarah, where they
conducted tests which proved
beyond doubt that the disease
was anthrax. Representations
were then made to the Govern-
ment to have an official demon-
stration of the vaccine-treatment.
Devlin, staunchly supported by
Alexander Bruce, Chief In-
spector of Stock, was the leader
in these moves.
Finally, the demonstration was
held on T. W. Hammond’s
property, Wyoming, about a
mile from Junee on the Old
Junee road, Devlin supervising
the arrangements for the tests.
Results were clear-cut. Within
60 hours every one of the un-
vaccinated sheep in the test had
died and the vaccinated sheep
were all alive, eating contamin-
ated food among the carcasses
of the dead animals.
Stockowners were convinced
of the value of vaccination, but
Pasteur refused to allow his
representatives to continue vac-
cinating, as they had not come
out for this purpose, and they
were dissatisfied with their treat-
ment by the authorities. They
returned to France at the end of
1888. Before leaving, Dr. Ger-
mont, who had been in charge of
the experiments, told Devlin that
he could consider himself an
authority on anthrax.
The squatters were now in the
ironical position of knowing a
cure and being unable to obtain
it, and the terrific losses con-
tinued. In 1889 Pasteur offered
to permit the use of his vaccine
in all Australian colonies for
£38,000, but the Inter-Colonial
Stock Conference thought the
price too high. Devlin showed
great determination, and pressed
to get help from the Govern-
ment and the stockowners, but
failed both efforts.
At this distance it seems
strange that the squatters,
suffering such losses, couldn’t be
persuaded to finance the project.
But they were having a hard
time, and many of them had
given up hope at this stage.
Then, too, the necessity for
giving two injections, 10 days
to a fortnight apart, and the
difficulties of handling the
vaccine during the hot weather
(when the disease was most
rampant) and over the great
distances involved discouraged
them.
Devlin himself got into diffi-
culties, and the mortgagees fore-
closed on Uarah. He went to live
in Junee, setting-up as a stock-
and-station agent and wheat-
buyer. Against the advice of his
family and friends, he continued
his efforts to bring Pasteur’s men
back, and ultimately a syndicate
in France put up the money for
the vaccine to be manufactured
and distributed by an agency in
Sydney. Devlin and his sons
were to be the field-operatives
and stockowners were to be
charged 2d. per sheep and 4d.
for large stock.
Dr. Loir returned to Australia
in April, 1890, set-up a labora-
tory at Rodd Island, and pre-
pared the vaccine. It was used
for the first time by the Devlins
at Brocklesby station, in the
Corowa district, in July, 1890.
It was reported that 193,098
sheep were vaccinated that year,
but results didn’t come up to
expectations, as the vaccine
became ineffective if not used
soon after production. Hot
weather also caused loss of effi-
ciency, and it was in hot weather
that the worst outbreaks
occurred.
In 1891 vaccination was only
undertaken in cool weather, and
“Sure, it's a nice big home, but who's going
to do the housework?"
this proved successful. In 1893
Dr. Momont took-over from Dr.
Loir, and engaged John Mc-
Garvie Smith as assistant.
Dr. Momont and McGarvie
Smith had been interested in the
subject of snakebite anti-toxin.
Dr. Rougier succeeded Momont
next year and, it has been stated,
left the routine laboratory-work
to McGarvie Smith. Devlin and
his family, in the meantime, con-
tinued vaccination on behalf of
the Pasteur representatives, using
their vaccine. One of the stations
on which they inoculated was
South Yalgogrin.
There were serious dis-
advantages in the handling of
this vaccine. In the first place,
two doses had to be given—the
first, weak; the second, strong;
14 days apart. This was very
difficult on the big undeveloped
properties, where sheep roamed
over vast areas of timbered
country, and where there were
few facilities for yarding. The
vaccine had to be fresh, and had
to be kept cool, which was almost
impossible in the summer: the
precious vaccine, wrapped in wet
bags, was rushed by fast buggy
over the bush-tracks.
John Alexander Gunn,
manager for R. Goldsbrough
and Co., of Yalgogrin station, be-
came interested in the control of
anthrax, which by the early-
’nineties began to threaten ruin
to squatters over a wide area. On
some runs the natural increase
didn’t equal losses, and stock-
qumbers were so low that cull-
ing was out of the question, so
flocks deteriorated in quality.
Indeed, it looked as though all
sheep and cattle in the affected
areas might die. Horses, and
even dingoes, died from it. And
there was the constant risk of
human deaths. Some men
handling infected animals did die
—it is remarkable there weren’t
many more.
The better the season the worse
the disease, and it struck down
the best sheep. It was particu-
larly virulent in summer, when
grass-seeds punctured the skin.
A manager of a property of
129,000 acres, running 26,600
sheep, 34 horses and 41 cattle
(1892 Riverine Directory figures),
employed by a firm owning many
other large properties and
naturally anxious to encourage
his work, Gunn had opportunity
to experiment. He became a
close friend of Devlin, and built
a laboratory and a great boiling-
down vat with a huge brick
chimney at the Yalgogrin home-
stead.
In his well-equipped labora-
tory, which included a micro-
scope imported from Germany,
Gunn tested the vaccine when it
arrived from Sydney for use on
Goldsbrough’s various pro-
perties. In sheep-pens in the
station-yards he kept his experi-
mental flocks. His wife, Jessie
Jean, assisted him in keeping
records, and he was aided by
notes loaned to him by Devlin.
Some of these notes had been
received from Pasteur himself.
(They were, unfortunately, lost
in transit when he returned
them.)
In the great vats and coppers
of the Yalgogrin laboratory
Gunn boiled-down old sheep and
filtered the “soup” through
blotting-paper until it was “clear
and colorless like gin.” The final
stage was performed in a con-
verted chicken-brooder. The
anthrax-culture was then intro-
duced.
At first he had used the
Pasteur vaccine sent up from
Sydney, but finding this not
always successful he experi-
mented until, in 1894, he was
able to make his own vaccine.
This in itself was an outstanding
performance; he, however,
became intent on producing a
single-dose vaccine which would
retain its potency even if not
used immediately.
Yalgogrin became known
through the whole district as the
centre in the fight against
anthrax. And in 1897 Gunn did
produce a serum which was
effective in one dose, and which
could be kept almost indefinitely.
His triumph was short-lived.
He had proved that it could be
done, but try as he would he
could not produce the one-dose
serum again. Finally, he decided
to enlist outside aid. First he
tried to get Devlin to join forces
with him ; on Devlin’s refusal, he
invited John McGarvie Smith to
assist him in his search for the
lost serum.
McGarvie Smith agreed, and
after a few days of experi-
menting they succeeded in pro-
ducing again the vaccine which
was to revolutionise the treat-
ment of the disease and eventu-
ally to eradicate it as a major
worry of stockowners.
Mr. Frank Stewart, whose
father had been friendly with
Gunn’s father at Burrumbeet, in
Victoria, and who lived on the
neighboring property, Bygoo, all
the time Gunn was at Yalgogrin,
remembers watching these
experiments with avid interest.
He visited Yalgogrin laboratory
often, and followed the progress
of the experiments. Gunn ex-
pected McGarvie Smith to retire
from the scene after the single-
dose vaccine had been redis-
covered and leave him to handle
the vaccine on his own, but Mc-
Garvie Smith made it clear that
he expected to share in any
production of the vaccine, which
was obviously of great com-
mercial value.
Mr. Stewart remembers well
the doubt which the station-
manager had about the proposed
alliance, and his indecision. He
came to Bygoo with his wife,
and put in one Sunday talking
the matter over. He had all the
countryman’s suspicion of the
city-dweller.
But Gunn really had no
alternative, as' McGarvie Smith
already possessed the secret of
manufacture. The partnership
proved quite successful. The
city-man made the serum and
the bush-scientist distributed and
used it.
The Yalgogrin vaccine proved
highly efficient and satisfactory
in every way. Gunn’s vaccinat-
ing-teams operated all over the
country. He again proved his
capability in the manner in
which he arranged the vaccinat-
ing-operations.
Mr. George Gow, who
managed many outback stations,
says that he kept a room at the
old Moombooldool homestead
ready at all times for any of
Gunn’s men, who would some-
times come during the night and
leave before daylight next morn-
ing. A change-horse was also
kept ready-stabled for the speed-
ing travellers.
The process of manufacture
was kept a secret, and on Gunn’s
death in 1910 McGarvie Smith
became the sole proprietor,
until, before his own death in
1918, he presented the formula
to the State for the benefit of


The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS' BOY
“Series II” and “MAJOR”
Rotary Scythe or Twin Rotary Scythe.
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
tne grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
Sth. Ajae.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1651.
Q’land; BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Anst. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. Pty. Ltd., 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
TILLEY
ri| i
PRESSURE
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Thinking about Dipping soon?
Control both Lice and Keds
at one time with
SICKLE/rrv BRAND
LIQUID ARSENICAL SHEEP DIP
• Easy to use-
just pour it in
and stir.
• Thoroughly
wets the fleece.
# Contains ultra
fine Rotenone.
# Paradip can be
used in hard
or soft water.
*-**•
t
a
x i;
KOSIOd
Prefer a Powder Dip ?
s 0 N
P 0 •
SICKLE
nr
BRAND
DOUBLE ACTION
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOR KEDS AND LICE
ARSENICAL
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOR LICE ONLY
Order nou) from your local agent or
AUSTRALIAN FERTILIZERS LTD.
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY t
the grazing-industry, together
with all his equipment and a
substantial sum of money to
provide for an organisation, the
McGarvie Smith Institute, which
was to manufacture and supply
the vaccine.
The relatives of Gunn also
presented the formula to the
Government.
McGarvie Smith vaccine has
been sent all over the world, and,
as well, the McGarvie Smith
Institute has made a reputation
in other fields.
It was fortunate for the stock-
owners that two such able and
determined men as Arthur Dev-
lin and John Alexander Gunn
were in the picture early. The
luckless, unrewarded Devlin was
almost solely responsible for the
first experiments being made,
and for the intervention of the
scientists of the Pasteur Institute.
These showed that the victory
could be won, although their
results were not completely
satisfactory.
To Gunn must go the honor
of discovering the improved
vaccine.
R. Webster.
Water at Night
“Cambridge”: Advantages of
using a spray-irrigation system
at night include lower tariff when
electricity is used ; less evapora-
tion ; and more even distribution
of water because of the calmer
conditions. In most places where
electricity is available here in
Victoria its cost at night is less
than half the day-time cost.
The late Roy Newton, Mel-
bourne engineer, invented an
automatic spray-system which,
irrespective of the power used,
could turn itself on at night and
turn itself off when enough water
had been applied to a certain
area. His secret was the use of
small plaster plugs in the ground
through which a tiny electric-
potential changed according to
the amount of moisture around
the plugs.
Associated with this was a
system whereby the full force of
the water could be fed through
one spray, with consequent
greatest coverage for a period,
then transferred automatically to
other sprays in turn.
Sudan-grass
“M”: Tell “M.0.L.” con-
tributor “W.C.Q.” that there is
little likelihood of Sudan-grass
being toxic to stock if the seed
from which the crop is grown is
pure and has not been mixed with
any of the sorghums, either sweet
or grain.
All the sorghums have a high
prussic-acid content at certain
stages, especially when young,
and this is transmitted to the
grass if the two are grown in
close proximity.
The sale of Sudan-grass seed
that has been hybridised with
sorghum is prohibited under the
Queensland Pure Seeds Acts,
as is that which shows any trace
of Johnson-grass seed. On the
Darling Downs cattle and calves
are grazed on Sudan in all stages
of its growth without any ill-
effects, and many thousands of
acres are grown annually for
cattle, sheep and pigs.
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has issued these recom-
mendations on the feeding of
Sudan-grass: A crop stunted by
drought may prove harmful;
turn the animals into the pad-
dock for a short period at first,
gradually increasing grazing-
period ; horses and pigs may be
safely grazed at all times, while
sheep are less likely to be
affected than cattle ; when cut
and dried, the grass is very un-
likely to be harmful.
Johnson-grass, on the other
hand, is dangerous if fed before
it comes into seed-head. It is
good feed, and very drought-
resistant, but its pernicious
underground-rooting has caused
it to be declared a noxious-weed.
When once established, it’s
very difficult to eradicate, as its
roots run in all directions, and
any piece left in the soil will
produce a new plant. Ploughing
only serves to spread the thick,
fleshy root-stocks; the best
method is to spray the plants
thoroughly with sodium-chlorate
or T.C.A. when they are growing
vigorously.
New Tomato
“Ninety-Nine”: A new strain
of tomato has been developed in
Queensland. Known as Q 5, it
has a rather compact bush, with
dark-green leaves which provide
ample cover for the maturing
fruit.
The fruit has a deep-globe
shape, dark-green shoulders
when mature, and an attractive
red color when fully ripe. The
flesh is firm and consignments
carry well to distant markets.
In some strains of Rutgers,
from which the new variety is
deveoped, fruit-size tends to
decline sharply in the later picks,
and the proportion of small
tomatoes is therefore excessive.
Q 5 seems to hold its size well.
Plant-breeding Angles
“Baylor” : Radioactive-isotopes
are being used to try to conquer
sterility in promising hybrid
grasses in the United States.
Victoria’s senior plant-geneti-
cist, Allan Raw, of the State
Research Farm, Werribee, was
one of the pioneers in the use of
the drug colchicine to help to
cross grasses which would not
interbreed naturally. He used
it to cross wheat with one of the
grasses to produce a “perennial
wheat,” which could develop into
a plant of great value. Later, the
Russians announced that they
had bred a “perennial wheat.”
Recently the Americans have
used a similar technique to pro-
duce several promising grasses by
mating the deep-rooted, tall, pro-
ductive but unpalatable fescue
with palatable rye-grass and
meadow-fescue.
The various crosses, are being
studied for disease-resistance,
productivity, persistence and
fertility under field-conditions.
Scientists are confident of cross-
ing hybrids of fescue and ryd-
grass with tall fescue. The ex-
pected crosses will also stand a
chance of producing good seed-
bearing hybrids. In general,
hybrids are sterile or are shy
breeders, and most grasses must
produce seeds prolifically to be
grown as forage-crops.
Hanson, of the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, has pro-
duced several vigorous and
disease-resistant, but sterile,
crosses of rye-grass and fescue.
Cuttings of these have been
treated with radioactive-
isotopes in the hope of getting
useful plant-material.
Results of this work should be
available in three or four years.
Wasted Land
“Bluey”: General observation
indicates that many Victorian
farmers are not fully using their
land. A farmer with about 200
acres will probably have more
than one-twentieth unproductive.
Sometimes this idle portion has
never been asked to produce;
more often the land has literally
gone “back to Nature.”
In the first of these instances
it is usually a few acres which
were uncleared when the place
was bought, and which the
farmer never seems to get
around to.
In the second instance what’s
noted is noxious or semi-noxious
weeds. Two of the more common
are bracken and blackberry. It
is an interesting and sobering
sight to watch the invasion.
Using bracken as an example,
the circle starts. At first a few
small shoots appear, and spread,
in a hitherto clean paddock.
Other patches also begin, but
because they spread so slowly
these appear to become part of
the paddock. By the time the
farmer realises that his paddock
is being gradually overtaken, the
clumps are firmly entrenched.
If they had been dealt with
when they first appeared, digging
them out would have stopped
them. By the time they are estab-
lished much more drastic
measures must be taken. A
costly waste of . man-hours
and/or poison.
Potato-storage
“Billjim”: Field-pits for
storing potatoes have been
abandoned in England in favor
of indoor-storing, and this idea
is catching-on in Australia.
English farmers contend that
indoor-storage helps to reduce
costs of production, gives inde-
pendence of weather ndifion?
during grading, and provides
better working-conditions for the
men. Losses from disease also
are usually mini used by the
drier conditions.
A main disadvantage—heavy
initial capital outlay on a new
building can be avoided by
adaptation. Little more is
necessary than insulation of the
walls with bales of straw and
provision of slatted - timber
ventilation-ducts to give air
access to the bottom of the heap
of potatoes.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/4/’56)
Good general rains, mainly above normal, should occur
in most of N.S.W. during June, although only light rains
are likely on the siouth coast and southern tablelands, with
moderate falls on the coast from Sydney north.
In Queensland moderate rains on the coast during June,
but mainly light on the peninsula and north-west. General
rains should occur elsewhere, with heaviest rains in the
south-west.
General rains should be received in the whole of
Victoria, and copious general rains are likely in South
Australia.
In Western Australia, moderate rain should occur in
the Gascoyne area, with good falls above average in the
Fortescue and goldfields areas. The south-west should
experience heavy general rains, with particularly heavy
falls between Perth and Esperance.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The 2/ 10th Battalion
In “History in Memorials” (B. 25/4/’56)
May Zee mentions the memorial to the
2/10th Battalion outside the little school
at Sheep Station Creek, near Kilcoy (Q.),
and asks, “Where are those soldiers
now?”
I am happy to report that 264 of them
were in the Anzac Day march in Adelaide,
but not happy to report that nearly 200
of them fell at Milne Bay, at Buna, and
at Borneo.
The remaining 300 or so, nearly all
South Australians, combine with their
comrades of the original 10th Bn. in
membership of the largest battalion-club
in Australia, with a roll of more than
1300 financial members.
Scores of battalions camped in hun-
dreds of places in Australia during 1942,
but perhaps the memorial at Sheep
Station Creek is unique; and there is a
reason for it being there.
By tradition, the 2/10th was South
Australia’s senior infantry unit in World
War II —lineal descendants of the old
Adelaide Rifles. The Lord Mayor dips
the Town Hall flag to them when they
march past on Anzac Day, and that is a
great honor. But when the 2/ 10th
returned from the Middle East in 1942,
no welcome awaited them in Adelaide.
They were taken from their ship and
speedily dispatched by train to a pad-
dock 30 miles out of town. Not a soul
came near them, nor was there even a
buckshee cup of tea for the men who
had had a modest share in helping to
hold Tobruk. They said nothing about
it, but from the Colonel to the cooks they
were a little hurt.
It was left to Kilcoy, a hamlet in the
Brisbane Valley, to give the South
Aussies a welcome-home. The battalion
arrived there in June, 1942, for jungle-
training in the wild Jimna Hills. An
immediate affinity seemed to spring up
between the 2 / 10th and the great-hearted
people of little Kilcoy.
On days when Brisbane leave was
offered, scores of the boys preferred to
stick around the village, yarning with the
folk and buying lollies for the school-
kids. Many helped on the farms, and
a lot of them married local lasses.
Behavior suddenly became exemplary, in
a unit not noted for its plaster-saints.
The battalion was there for only two
months, but to many of its members
Kilcoy personifies all that is kindly and
homely and truly Australian.
We left Kilcoy suddenly, as is usual in
war, at midnight, unable even to say
goodbye, and few of us have been there
since. But we remember.
The people of Kilcoy erected the mem-
orial in 1952, ten years ofter the 2/10th
had passed on. — The Sheriff (S.A.).
Oil and Cbal
Australia’s increasing dependence on
foreign oil is wasteful and dangerous.
Every ton of imported oil adversely
affects our trade-balance ; every unit of
industry converted to oil, particularly in
transport, puts us further out on a limb
in the event of war.
The men who shape national policy
don’t appear worried about these things
—we have no farsighted plan to develop
our rich coal-resources. Far-reaching
decisions on the kind of fuel used by
public utilities are left to public servants
whose favorite cock-shy is the coal-
industry. Oil is steadily displacing coal in
electric-power generation; trams are
being replaced with oil-burning buses.
The hard fact is that years of extensive
surveys and drilling have produced only
a trickle of oil, and it begins to look as
though there isn’t much of it hidden
beneath Australia’s crust.
We do possess vast reserves of good
coal from which we could distil high-
grade liquid-fuel in sufficient quantities to
service essential transport in war-time.
Given an assured market for this, the
coal-industry could be reorganised and
expanded to produce more coal at com-
petitive prices. Today, a few large mines
on the northern fields of N. S. Wales
are mechanised and efficient. Otherwise
the picture is one of many smallish
mines, with ramshackle equipment, hand-
ling coal hewn by 19th-9entury pick-and-
shovel methods.
Amalgamation of small leases with
electric machinery, mechanised - cutting
and -loading at the working-faces—these
are basic requirements for efficient coal-
production.
Australia needs an assured supply of
electric-power generated independently
of foreign fuel; in war, at least some of
the liquid-fuel used by 1 industry should be
produced locally.
Liquid-fuel distilled from coal, even
with large-scale output, might still be
dearer than imported oil, but the slight
extra cost would be worth shouldering.
The difference could be regarded as cheap
insurance against transport-paralysis, and
Australia’s economy would be greatly
strengthened by a prosperous coal-
industry and its subsidiaries. — Jeremiad
(N.S.W.).
Six-o’clock Closing
“W.H.E.” asserts (B. 25/4/’56) that
“the present six-o’clock closing [in
Victoria] gives rise to greater social evils
than later closing ever could.” That
begs the whole question.
In a community with a sane and
rational attitude towards drinking, and
where publicans maintained a high tradi-
tion of public service, hotel-hours could
be extended to midnight or later without
any great social evils resulting. Unfor-
tunately, neither of those conditions pre-
vails in Victoria —a fact of which most
Victorian voters were very well aware.
In casting their votes, Victorians had
to consider the known abuses of liquor
by a section of the community. These
abuses, they felt, would be increased
rather than mitigated by the extension of
trading-hours. They also noted the
almost complete failure of liquor-selling
interests to conduct their business in a
public-spirited manner and to provide
adequate facilities for the “civilised
drinking” about which so much was
belatedly said.
Admittedly, those who would have
made sensible use of the extended
trading-hours have been denied that
privilege, but the blame for that lies not
with those who voted for no-extension.
It rests with those who abuse their
existing privileges, and with liquor-
interests whose promises for the future
were belied by their own record of dis-
regard for the public’s needs. —D. J. G.
(Vic.).
A Bachelor Tax
Why punish young bachelors and
spinsters by heavier taxation (B.
18/4/’56)?
The idea of a “bachelor-tax” is not
new, and it represents intolerance of
human freedoms. Surely the choice of
marrying or remaining single should be
the unassailable right of the individual!
And having exercised that right by decid-
ing to remain single why should the
individual be penalised for it?
It may be true that young people prefer
to spend more than they save, but the
declining value of the pound in post-war
years is enough to discourage both young
and old from attempting to save.
In any case, why should young people
be told what to do with the money they’ve
earned? Surely they can do what they
like with it?
The suggestion of “deferred-pay”
deductions could be a sound proposition,
“Say when."
but only on a voluntary basis. Most
firms have superannuation-schemes to
which all employees may contribute, and
I have not noticed any reluctance on the
part of young people to become
members.
A point overlooked is that young
people, unable to claim deductions for
dependants, already pay a considerably
higher rate of income-tax than married
people.
Instead of attacking young unmarried
people, why not try to make married life
more attractive and comfortable by
reducing the inflated cost of living? A
‘ Cummorn — they're runnin' the two-mile so slow We'll have time t'
catch 'em again."
good start would be to cut down on
reckless and wasteful Government
spending, halting the rapid and unjusti-
fied rises in politicians’ salaries, and
adjusting public-service salaries to a more
reasonable scale.— Sparks (Q.).
Financial Measures
Criticism of the Menztes financial
measures lacks substance when critics
like “G.C.” and “M.F.D.” (B. 11/4/’56)
cannot suggest workable alternatives.
“G.C.” wants price-control, but the
Commonwealth has no power over prices.
The States have power, but they haven’t
stopped prices rising, because these are
largely due to employees working 36-
hours effective time instead of 40. The
same employees are getting too much
money (spending-power) for what they
produce—hence too much money for too
few goods.
Labor has encouraged this go-slowism,
yet its members have been loudest in
criticising Menzies and Fadden for the
depreciation of the pound.
“M.F.D.” might note that there has
already been a sharp fall in car-sales,
which means less imports of cars, petrol,
rubber and parts. The beer-, tobacco-
and petrol-taxes were obviously increased
to avoid using highly inflationary
Treasury Bills to help finance State works
—to that extent these tax-increases will
be anti-inflationary. Higher prices have
never curbed purchases of beer and
tobacco.
To have increased personal income-
tax, as “M.F.D.” suggests, would have hit
the thrifty harder than the spendthrift.
To the Government’s credit it has
endeavored to put the heaviest imposts
where spending was heaviest.—K. Me
(N.5.W.).,
Employee Relations
“You cannot buy the goodwill of men
and women working in a business for
cash. There is no substitute for good
human-relations, for a recognition of
the dignity of every individual.”—
H. W. L. Reddish, quoted in B. 4/4/’56.
Therein is the key to one of our biggest
economic problems.
Only since the Industrial Revolution
has the flag of the proletariat been the
rallying-post of widespread discontent.
The feeling of mass-loyalty among
workers and their antagonism to em-
ployers sprang not so much from the
appalling conditions of their work but
from the disintegration of human-rela-
tions that followed the inception of big
business.
There is, indeed, no substitute for good
human-relations. The average man, pro-
vided he receives his fair day’s pay for
his fair day’s work, and provided he has
some personal feeling of responsibility
and usefulness in his job, doesn’t aspire
to the Socialist’s rosy dream of owner-
ship.
The station-hand, the private-secretary
and the man who helps behind the counter
at the suburban grocery rarely lay down
their tools and strike for all manner of
payments and amenities. Why? Because
they work less and are paid more? Far
from it! In nine cases out of ten they
are paid no more than the award-wage,
and they often work unpaid overtime to
help the boss out.
They are happy to work hard and with-
out complaint because they have the
feeling of value.
But the wharflaborer, the electrician in
the giant power-house, the coalminer,
and all those who are no more to their
employer than a number, are never really
satisfied. Their work lacks the greatest
stimulant in life, the feeling of purpose.
Until we debunk the prejudice that all
a man looks for in his job is money and
soft conditions we will never solve one
of our worst industrial problems.—
Ringer (Q.).
Sydney’s Phones
Sydney’s recent Wet disrupted the city’s
phone-services, largely because the
humidity affected underground cables
and the equipment in exchanges and
homes.
The weather, however, is not alone
responsible for the poor condition ol
Sydney’s phones. Also to blame is the
system in the P.M.G.’s Department (in
Sydney, anyway) by which the clerical
section of the Post Office, known as the
Third Division, is now better-paid than
the maintenance-sections. The result is
that mechanics and technicians are trans-
ferring to the clerical section!
The position is absurd. Yet it reflecb
a social problem, not peculiar to the Post
Office, which has developed since the war
and which will need to be corrected-"
attention is often drawn to it, but nothing
is done. This is the matter of unskilled
men (such as, relatively, are clerks) get-
ting more money, and without the bother
of long years of apprenticeship, than do
skilled tradesmen.
Men are leaving the maintenance-sec-
tions of the P.M.G. every week and are
often not replaced. If this trend con-
tinues Sydney will soon have no phone-
service worth the name, be the weather
wet or dry.— Kaymara (N.S.W.).


Floods and the Land
“C.8.M.” (B. 21/3 / ’56) does not
appear to connect soil-conservation with
lood-prevention. The first is at least 70
per cent, of the second and also returns
i big dividend apart from flood-con tiol.
As “C.8.M.” and a million or so others
nave observed, it is the ever-increasing
hearings, especially on the slopes, and the
more and better roads that cause floods.
Soil-conservation, plus regrassing and re-
afforestation, ensures absorption of ram
where it will do most good —at or near
where it falls.
Contour-ploughing of arable land, plus
contour-furrows as close as 6ft. apart ver-
tically, would take cate of all the floods
that matter. It would take time and
money, but soi.l-conseiv3.tion is 3n ofi-
season activity and less absenteeism
would help a lot. The cost would be
recovered in a few years in improved
grazing and crops.
There is, of course, more to soil-
conservation than contour-furrows, but
all the mainland States have well-
organised staffs of skilled soil-savers only
too willing to help interested landowners.
There are also the forestry- and agros-
tology-sections to deal with trees and
grasses.
But these experts are not likely to get
much chance of helping. There are not
enough of them, and they could be better-
equipped —and those are the least of their
troubles. The major difficulties are
three:
Most Australian landowners demand
maximum and quick returns. Tossing a
few bags of fertiliser over a field is about
as much as they do. Their attitude
towards Government advice is: II the
Government wants it done it should pay
for it.”
Second, politicians are not really inter-
ested in any form of conservation. There
are no votes in it, and it generally calls
for co-operation, even compulsion, and
these mean headaches for Ministers.
Third, moving towns, digging diversion-
channels, building dams and resuming
lands cost a lot of money often ear-
marked for social- or other handout-
services.
Handouts for flood-relief are very
popular locally, as they provide local
employment and are good vote-catchers.
Plans for prevention of flood-devasta-
tion are well within the skill and know-
ledge of our engineers, though most of
them are concerned with building dams
and levees and digging canals, etc. They
are soil-shifters rather than soil-savers.
An exception is P. A. Yeomans, an
engineer whose book The Keyline Plan
gives an excellent description of what
one man can do with a few simple
machines to conserve soil, grass and
water. The book was reviewed and dis-
cussed at length in The Bulletin some
time ago, and Yeomans’s work has also
been screened and shown. His work is
mostly old stuff to official soil-conserva-
tionists, but he has commanded the publi-
city they lack and the title of his book is
a slogan in itself.
For the rest? Save the soil, with its
grass and trees, and the floods will be
stopped at their source. —T.K. 11l (Q.). -
Home-building
Under the new housing-agreement
between the Commonwealth and the
States, home-building by the Victorian
Housing Commission will be reduced and
more homes will be built through co-
operative societies.
In the first and second years of a five-
year scheme, during which £lO million
will be made available for housing,
commission-building will be cut by 20
per cent. ; in the three following years it
will be reduced by 30 per cent. As a
result, between 600 and 800 more homes
will be built through housing-societies
in the first year of the scheme, and about
1000 additional homes in the subsequent
years.
The change is welcome. Far too much
finance has been sunk in State-owned
homes, with the result that the State
has become a huge landlord, with all
the problems inherent in the landlord
business—problems so burdensome that
the Victorian Housing Commission is
now the subject of a searching inquiry
into the conduct of its affairs. Nobody
seems to know how much it has lost since
it began large-scale operations after the
war, but everyone knows that the tax-
payer has had to foot the bill.
There never was any justification for
the State embarking on the building of
houses for letting, other than for the
aged, the needy and the destitute. It
may be too late now to recover most of
the losses, but at .any rate the present
Victorian Government seems determined
“ Shillin' exier , missus—petrol's gone up again."
to avoid serious losses in the future. .
More important, it is insisting that hous-
ing is, in the main, the responsibility of
the individual breadwinner.
In an era when a large section of the
community is inclined to expect the State
to look after it from the cradle to the
grave, the Victorian Government’s policy
of encouraging healthy self-reliance and
independence of State-aid is a good omen
for the future.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Monopolies ,
Labor’s catch-cry at the last Federal
election was “Destroy the Monopoly,”
but State Labor Governments seem deaf
to the call.
Monopolies in Australia may go by
more euphemistic names, such as “trade-
agreements,” “gentlemen’s agreement”
and so forth, but monopolies they are.
The recent report on the timber-trade
revealed some evidence, and too often
one finds retailer-manufacturer “co-opera-,
tion” designed to eliminate any compe-
tition that could force a reduction in
prices.
Try to change your milkman or your
baker, or, in another field, try to buy or
sell eggs without paying the Egg Board
its cut. State Labor has set-up more
Government and semi - Government
monopolies than anyone else.
I know that, in many ways, it is more
economic to work on the zone- (or
monopoly-) system. A newsagent is not
likely to run his van half-a-mile out of
his way to deliver two papers only, and
it does seem wasteful to have two or three
bakers or milkmen covering the same
ground. Yet they did it in pre-war days
and made a good living.
If monopoly meant a streamlining of
delivery and provided a cheaper and
better service there would be some justi-
fication for it. But it has yet to do that.
—Rann (N.S.W.).
The Economist
It seems fashionable at the moment to
condemn the economist. Rash Govern-
ment expenditure, an inflated public
service, overseas-credit troubles —all are
held to be the fault of the adepts of the
“gloomy science.”
It is easy to be critical, but surely there
must be value in a science which has
attracted the attention of some of the
clearest thinkers in the world.
Most of us think of economics as a
purely theoretical science with no prac-
tical application to everyday problems.
Lord Keynes has written:
“The theory of economics does not
furnish a body of settled conclusions
immediately applicable to policy. It is
a method rather than a doctrine, an
apparatus of the mind, a technique of
thinking, which helps its possessor to
draw correct conclusions.”
That is true, although Keynes could
have mentioned that it is impossible to
apply theory unless one has had experi-
ence in the field in which the problem
occurs, v
This, I think, is the crux of the
matter. It is useless being deeply
steeped in theory if one cannot apply it.
Modern economics is very different from
that of yesteryear. It being a dynamic
science, many of the older theories have
been discarded and replaced by new ones;
but the field of applied-economics is
where the greatest progress has been
made.
When I studied the science, economics
was divided into two parts, theory and
application, and each occupied the same
time in the curriculum. The broad term
“applied economics” has now been sub-
divided into many parts, and it is possible
to study only a limited area of this vast
field.
Two of the subdivisions which spring
to mind are time-and-motion study and
industrial management. The so-called
“efficiency experts” or “industrial consul-
tants” are in reality economists trained in
one particular branch of applied econo-
mics. They are much sought-after by
industry because of their practical
knowledge and specialised training, and
the result of their work is testimony to
their usefulness. Why, then, do these
economists succeed when those in the
national field so often fail?
There are two reasons. First, the
panel of economists is generally com-
posed of professors from the various
universities. These men are highly
trained, but in order to obtain their
higher degrees they are forced to
specialise in one narrow field which is
often purely theoretical. University-life
tends to increase their theoretical out-
look. Secondly, their advice is subject
to political Scrutiny, and no matter how
sound it may be it will be unacceptable
to the Government if it conflicts with
policy or is likely to cause lost votes at
the next election.
In many cases the advice first given is
very different from that adopted finally
by the Government. To give sound
advice which will cope with the problem
and not conflict with policy, and which
will please the voters, is surely a Hercu-
lean- task. In most instances it is beyond
the capacity of any man. —Agricola
(Q-).
Asia
Agreed that Asia is not very interested
in our political or social ideologies except
to argue against them before U.N.
committees (B. 28/3/’56).
Unfortunately, however, it has become
our custom to boast of our “immense
natural resources” to justify our “high
standard of living.” This has not been
missed by the Asiatic students we have
wisely admitted to our educational
establishments.
These lads and lasses must be learning
a lot about us not entirely to our credit.
It can’t be helped. A genuine request for
knowledge cannot be knocked back,
and we must do what we may to help
Asia make the most of its own resources,
even if it means exposing our weaknesses.
We must continue to hand out every
kind of technical knowledge, even assis-
tance, plus friendship and as much
understanding as we can. Discussions,
some arguments, are inevitable, particu-
larly over our immigration - policies.
We must be polite, but firm.
I found the following more effective
than most with a Hindu of the “failed
8.A.” type: .
“This is our country. It was practically
empty when we took it over. We dis-
placed a primitive people, just as your
ancestors did. We built it up to what it
is. We have fought to keep it.” (I did
not say we would fight again to keep it.
If the Indian gentleman understood that
—well, I did not say it.)
“If,” I said, “we have a high standard
of living we also built it up here. We do
not wish to have it interfered with. You
have India; we have Australia. Let us
leave it at that.”
I did not point out that India also has
a lot of its nationals in Africa, that
unassimilated immigrants could cause a
deal of trouble, or that infiltration by
migration had become a common
. means of taking over a country; but
the points are, unfortunately, relevant.
: —Tok (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 381
Across
I—A minor prophet with the Maori
mineral of greenish hue. (9)
6—Purse hidden by one of the film
crowd as a growth promoter.
, (5)
9 A good fellow levels on the
subject of a Samoan postage
stamp. (9)
10 — Vegetable biography of Idriess
certainly is. (5)
11— A modern poet shows Margaret
is in it. (7)
13— Jonathan’s hundred monkeys in
cloaks. (5)
14 — Influenza is the Polynesian
tetralogy of Wagner, and con-
fusing, too. (10)
16—Mercer sells this breeding estab-
lishment. (4)
18 — The boss breaks into tears. (4)
19— King George VI and Queen
Elizabeth II mention her relation-
ship to King George V. (10)
22 Warm up her highland bloom.
(7)
23 Blessing Mount Ego with an
heir. (7)
24 — Hatred causes South to leave the
alkaline metal. (5)
25 Characters in an opera by
Leoncavallo. (9)
27 — Canal misbehavior by America.
(5)
28 — Insects aren’t teetotal cud-
chewers. (9)
Down
1 — Sam upset over a quarrel with
the unfortunate mother leading a
dog. (7)
2 General one of the dregs. (3)
3 Hit coves from such British
mountains. (8)
4 One photo shown within another
is not out to harden. (5)
5 One changes in a long time. (3)
6 Bends over drinking vessels. (6)
7 Flora showing you an Italian
river, 4-down, a seashore tree,
and a Roman weight. (11)
8— Film producer was ahead, but
irritated. (7)
12 — An imperfect exhibition of a share
of food which cannot speak. (11)
13— Don’t stop conserving a clerical
worker. (5)
15 —Are sounded, arc spelt, are
sounded —b'ut not so common.
(5)
17— Looks over Idriess counting the
measures in a verse. (8)
18— Fish by the million seminaries.
(7)
20—Lion-tamer kicks the bucket
dudes. (7)
21—Fools the features of fifty
camels. (6)
23 —Indian princess to exist with a.
basis for ivory production. (5)
25 Hit up a worthy golf score. (3)
26 — One hundred and one with
necessary capacity. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 380


“ THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
m
BATTERIES
:•* zy.y.r- ■..' tav \
m
'■*-ltT.-rf .V 1 : L r t
•'V' :
SSBSSS?
|v r*
r;:; K ; : >*.T
<•:••:..5?:
fcK-y*
Kj; ,3
I# i
->■ •:
: -V "
V;, V>l
‘J\
is*
>;•:?!
m!
i!i
t-n*:*:-*
EM
am
Sit
■
hSi- :!;i
JMSHAgRE ill® j
5 I! 11 m - • U
‘ - ‘ vkl W-'-’.r ‘ f V it<" 1 I
•.•W.w.v.w.'Jv.v ■♦.V.-.V. tv*v.-,-..:c...*.- i ...;-.:•:•! •:?:••.
r/3
•V ? &
-, r . '-“i.i-'j.vp.-
■ . i !
i -!• >i •
i
|| 1 7“fr I
PiiiiHii
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES f*TY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone : MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
