

e
i
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
WRITING A BOOK — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 —No. 3965
Wednesday, February 8, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE ancient town of Brecon, forty-five
miles from Cardiff, is fortunate in its
superb location on the Usk, near its
junction with the Rivers Honddu and
Tarell in South Wales. It is bordered by
rich woodlands, lush meadows and sur-
rounded by majestic hills —Brecon
Beacons and the Black Mountains.
The district is rich in Celtic and
Roman remains and the town itself has
a well-preserved Norman Castle, built
by Bernard Newmarch, one of William
the Conqueror’s knights. The castle
was besieged by Llewelyn before his
decisive struggle with the English in the
Honddu Valley in 1282. The town
which grew up around this fortress deve-
loped a large cloth-making industry in
the 15th century, and its Royal charter
dates from 1412. Today it is the county-
town of Breconshire and a cathedral
city.
Brecon Cathedral, which had its origin
in an 11th-century Priory church, is
exceeded in size and architectural rank
only by the Welsh Cathedrals of St.
David’s and Llandaff. Little remains
of the original Priory, which was rebuilt
during the 13th and 14th centuries and
restored by Sir Gilbert Scott in 1862-75.
In 1925 the parish church became the
Cathedral of the new diocese of Swansea
and Brecon.
The outstanding feature of the
spacious interior is the Choir, which is
a fine example of Early-English architec-
ture, considered to be the best in Wales.
Here, also, can be seen a Norman font
and a creSset-stone originally used for
lighting the church and is the largest
surviving example of its kind in the
British Isles. The adjoining Canonry
was adapted from the ruins of the
monastic guest-house which had been
used in Stuart times as a stable and
coach-house.
Brecon is a town of narrow, pictur-
esque streets and many bridges. In the
High Street stands the ‘Siddons’ Arms’
where Mrs. Sarah Siddons (1755-1831),
the famous actress, and her actor brother,
Charles Kemble, were born. Other
famous natives of the town were Dr.
Hugh Price, the real founder of Jesus
College, Oxford, although Queen Eliza-
beth I claimed that honour on the
strength of having given some land and
some timber for building; and Dr.
Thomas Coke, founder of the American
Methodist Episcopalian Church.
No. 284: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
BRECON CATHEDRAL'S STYLE IS EARLY-ENGLISH AT ITS BEST


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
«2S» a i Phy ’ h3story ’ etc - Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
SNAPSHOTS OF AUSTRALIA
It would hardly seem possible after
Cyril ?? and Irma Pearl’s “Our Yester-
days,” the innumerable surveys of
scenery and industry by Frank Hurley
and others, to say nothing of the repro-
duction of many of the Merlin studies
of the goldfields and the Lawson
country in “The Bulletin,” that another
book of Australian photographs could
be more than the same thing over
again; and if this reviewer approached
Jack Cato’s The Story of the Camera in
Australia (Georgian House) with dread
and stayed with it in delight, that just
shows how mistaken one can be.
Either one’s appetite for this sort
of thing is insatiable; or, as is more
likely, Mr. Cato has taken great pains
to ensure that his collection has fresh-
ness and variety. He would be hard of
heart indeed who could not, among the
76 pages of illustrations, respond with
the most lively interest to the only
extant photograph of Adam Lindsay
Gordon in a beard, to the distinguished
study of W. C. Wentworth (by Edward
Dalton; the only portrait of him taken
m Australia), to Annette Kellerman
and her brother as children in charm-
ing tubular bathing-costumes, to the
white-sailed Golden Gate entering
Sydney Heads to provide the inspira-
tion for 2000 paintings by John Allcot,
to Fauchery’s vivid action-pictures
from the goldfields, to Merlin’s bark-
roofed humpies, to Robert Louis
Stevenson looking so much at ease in
the intimate domestic views by Charles
Kerry, to the portrait of the wild Irish-
man who in 1867 shot the then Duke
of Edinburgh at Clontarf, to—an old
friend, but always worth seeing again
—the photograph this reviewer has
always considered the loveliest and
most dramatic ever made, Hurley’s
flashlight picture of the Endurance fast
in the pack-ice, white with rime in
the white south.
Then, still fascinating if not quite on
the same heroic scale, there is the first
English cricket team to visit Australia
(1861), wearing spotted shirts, bow-ties
and pork-pie caps. There are the
familiar studies of Ned Kelly the day
before he was hanged, and Joe Byrne
strung-up for the photographers (and
Julian Ashton with his, sketchbook) a
few hours after his partly-charred body
was discovered in the ruins of Mrs.
Jones’s hotel at Glenrowan. There are
the more respectable celebrities, David
Low, looking very youthful and alert,
and Steele Rudd looking like nothing
else but a bushman in town.
Finally, as the “pictorial movement”
develops, first into what Mr. Cato
terms the “European Twilight” and
then into the “Australian Sunlight”
movements, we have the Tasmanian
waterfalls of J. W. Beattie; the tree-
ferns and settlers’ huts of Nicholas
Caire; Stephen Spurling (the third) of
Launceston catching the evening
glimmer of the Great Lake; gum trees
by John B. Eaton and Monte Luke;
and a “Dry Weather” landscape by
W. H. Moffitt, so firm in its composi-
tion with the post-and-rail fence zig-
zagging to the farm-buildings and trees
in the background, so full of Aus-
tralian atmosphere, that it surely must
be about as close as the camera ever
came to the art of Streeton, Tom
Roberts or Walter Withers.
But the most surprising thing about
“The Story of the Camera in Aus-
tralia” is not the excellence of the
reproductions—after all, if they are a
reasonably fresh lot, with not too many
merely tourist-views of scenery, they
can hardly fail to be interesting—but
the liveliness of Mr. Cato’s text; of
which, among the illustrations, there
are a good many thousands of words.
Who, without a special interest in the
subject, would want to read a history
of photography? The astonishing
answer, after seeing what Mr. Cato can
do with it, is—Everybody.
For a start, even to a reader to whom
all mechanical processes are not only
incomprehensible but revolting, it is
vaguely interesting to learn for the first
time exactly what is meant by the
camera-obscura and the daguerreotype
-—which one can’t even spell without
looking again at the text. But more
importantly— for here a bygone age
comes to life, just round the comer in
Bridge-street, in all its remoteness and
charm-—it is much more than vaguely
interesting to see the rapture and
astonishment with which Sydney first
greeted the miracle of the camera. As
“The Australian” of May 15, 1841,
reported it, in the elegant journalism
of the day:—
At the stores of Messrs. Joubert
and Murphy an interesting trial of
the advantages of the Daguerreotype
was made on Thursday, at which we
were present, and received the politest
attention at the hands of the gentle-
man who conducted the experiment.
, t Our readers will be aware that this
instrument is the recent innovation
of M- Daguerre, a Frenchman who,
after many years’ study, has suc-
ceeded in perfecting it. By means
of the transmission of the sun’s rays
upon a plate of glass lined with a
chemical solution a faithful picture
is formed, upon a small scale, of
any landscape required. This picture
remains perfectly fixed until erased,
and may be copied for the purpose
of lithography or engraving.
On the occasion we refer to, an
astonishingly minute and beautiful
sketch was taken of Bridge Street
and part of George Street, as it
appeared from the fountain in Mac-
quarie Place. ,It would be worth
the attention of any curious reader
to ascertain when the instrument will
next be used, for the purpose of
witnessing its apparently miraculous
effects.
While no journalist today can hope
to emulate that exquisite gentility of
style, it is consoling to reflect that even
in those days the newspapers were not
always accurate. Mr. Cato says the
report was wrong in saying that the
picture was made on glass
“Daguerreotypes were on silver plates
There were attempts to make them on
glass, hut that came much later, and
success -” Also, it might be
added, the report looks suspiciously
advertisement aCC ° m^ 3 “ Seful little
swas$ was " ot l° n g—December
V, 1842-before Australia’s first pro-
fessional photographer, Mr. Goodman
Sian”-- 18 " 18 frankly “ ‘ ,The Aus-
th,Php'?,gr^hic Portraits— Taken by
the Reflection of Light. The pro-
prietor of the Reflecting Apparatus
nL W C r h /t ithful Miniature Like-'
nesses of the human countenance and
person arc “won from the hand of
nature in the short space of a few
seconds, respectfully announces to
Ithe inhabitants of Sydney that this
Extraordinary Process will be open
to the Public at the Royal Hotel, in
which the Photographic Apparatus,
the discovery of which is ranked
among the greatest scientific achieve-
ments of the present age, will be in
Daily Operation from ten till five.
The price of each Portrait is One
Guinea, exclusive of the frame.
The advertisement was followed by
a column of reviews from the British
press, among which the “Observer”
commented that “there is such a
subtlety of touch and tone in the like-
ness as might fill a Vandyck or a
Lawrence at once with delight and
despair.”
It should not be thought, as these
quotations might indicate, that Mr.
Cato is interested only in “firsts.” There
is a bit of that kind of thing—who was
first in Darwin, Adelaide, Perth, Bris-
bane and so on—but there is nearly
always something to bring the cata-
logue to life. Mr. Cato has also, for
example, though he apologises for it, a
praiseworthy interest in money; and the
good Mr. Goodman may be contem-
plated with awe, if not envy, as, having
cleaned-up Sydney at a guinea a pop,
and done very well (about 100 guineas
a week, Mr. Cato estimates) with the
3000 photographically virgin inhab
tants of Bathurst, he sets sail for Me
bourne to be greeted by the “Port
Phillip Patriot” with the assurance tha ;
his daguerreotypes “for delicacy
finish and power of expression exceec
anything that has hitherto been attainec
here by manual artism” and to wore
his will—still at a guinea a time, wit 1
a handsome gilt-and-morocco cas
thrown in—upon the 15.000 citizen
for four and a half months. The “Port
Phillip Patriot,” sad to say, reproachec
him bitterly in the end for not con
tributing any of his gains to charity
Melbourne—meaning, perhaps, to th
“Port Phillip Patriot”—and trusted
sourly that “our Adelaide friends wil
find him more grateful.”
As a relief from these sordid detail
—for money is always a little sordic
when anybody else is making it—one
can turn to Mr. Cato’s surprising infor
mation, reinforced by some charming
illustrations, that William Macarthur
fourth son of the famous John, ‘was
“certainly the first Australian-born
amateur to use a camera.” The
Camden albums, says Mr. Cato, stil
preserve William’s snapshots of nakec
New Hebridean headhunters and the
equally unclad aborigines of Moreton
Island in their gunyahs “like bee-
hives.”
Touching upon early Sydney, then
the Macarthurs and their story, fol-
lowing his photographers to the gold-
fields and Eureka (with the usual
inaccurate summary of the results of
that affair), meeting bushrangers,
politicians and the celebrated liar
Louis de Rougemont (very different
classes of people, of course), recalling
the dramatic day when Amundsen
dropped-in at Hobart and announced
that he had reached the South Pole,
dealing in his chapter on painter-
photographers with such unexpected
practitioners as Tom Roberts, Streeton,
Piguenit and Gill, Mr. Cato has
written, in fact, a kind of popular his-
tory of Australia. The camera recorded
histoiy and he records the camera.
This could be dull. Our history is a
familiar story, and needs an expert to
give it fresh life. Mr. Cato is not what
one could call an expert historian. But
neither is he ever dull. He has enthusi-
asm; he has his special approach by
way of the camera; and, above all, h
has the liveliest interest in human
beings, so that in its final appeal thi
is not so much a book abou
photographers as a book about people
the actor Gustavus Vaughan Brooke
being showered with nuggets on the
goldfields; Barcroft Capel Boake, the
father of the poet, dying an even more
bizarre death than his son, by setting
fire to his beard when he fell asleep
with his pipe in his mouth; William
Tuttle, of Sydney, who every morning
marched his men across to Roberts’s
Hotel (where Farmer’s store now
stands) and ordered 40 glasses of beer
at twopence a glass; John William
Lindt, of Melbourne, building his
famous hermitage on Black’s Spur;
John Beattie, whose son married a
Cato in Hobart, deciding to emigrate
from Aberdeen at the age of 75 be-
cause he disapproved of the introduc-
tion of instrumental music during
Divine Service; H. W. Christie, head-
keeper of the lighthouse at Point
Charles near the entrance to Port
Darwin in 1887, who photographed
crocodiles and pearling-luggers, and
ate “thousands” of turtle-eggs every
year in custards and puddings, and of
whom Mr. Cato very justly says, “It
is doubtful if any lighthouse-keeper
ever had a fuller or more interesting
life”; and dozens more, famous men
and obscure men, photographers and
their clients from all over Australia,
nearly all with the anecdote that brings
them amusingly to life. The book is,
in its way, quite a tour-de-force; and
if one is not going to say that it out-
shines Boswell as the “Observer” said
Mr. Goodman’s photographs outshone
Vandyck, it is at any rate, as well as a
useful history of photography, a
remarkably entertaining collection of
snapshots.
THE LAST SUMMER
The hawk with heavy-lidded eyes
falls through a world of loaded skies,
falls and tears the light with its eye:
falling hawk and falling sky.
Falling, falls, falling dies:
the hawk with drought inside its eyes;
fruit falls and splits and dries,
falls with fullness, falls with weight,
the hawk falls alive with hate.
Weight of color, weight of years:
how can fruit contain its years,
the hawk its tense and nervous hate?
Black and red and blue and gold
falling, fall, cannot withhold.
And like a knife a scarlet bird
sings deserts in the lemon trees.
The light is torn across with black,
the mountain sings alive with hate;
red and gold and green and black
cathedral trees fall through the air
and burn the earth to love and hate.
O trees burn and purge despair
and crash like churches through the air
while like a knife a scarlet bird
sings deserts in the lemon trees.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
AT A TIME
At a time when love and love
was more than I could bear to give
she cried out, “Then I’m alone,
lonely in the world, alone.”
As I stood beside the bay
that the sun set burning bright
she cried tears into my hand,
all I offered was my hand.
I explained the fact of love,
the minute thing that humans have,
but I stumbled on her name;
confused her own, her own pet-name.
Suddenly, a midnight swan
treading white the water sun
rose up and made his own the air,
truly took the trembling air.
Suddenly, most moved by love
I raised her face to see it move,
and we kissed as lovers kiss.
Why remember more than this?
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
News from the Moon
Ever since Einstein ruined the uni
verse this reviewer has found al
scientific problems impossible to under
stand, and what one is to make of th
dilemma set out on pages 38 and 39 01
The Moon by H. P. Wilkins anc
Patrick Moore (Faber) passes compre
hension by an even wider margin than
usual.
On page 38 these learned authors—
Dr. Wilkins is director and Mr. Moore
secretary of the British Astronomical
Association—say that the temperature
towards the end of the long lunar night
approaches that of interstellar space,
“which is considered to approach minus
243 deg. C.” But then on page 39
pouring scorn upon a hapless astro
nomical German named Fauth, who
holds the apparently ridiculous belie]
that the moon is covered by 200 fee
of ice, the authors roundly assert, “I
is incorrect to speak of the ‘intense cold
of space’; space is a vacuum, and can
thus have no temperature at all.”
No doubt the authors can explain
with the greatest of ease how space can
be, simultaneously, intensely cold and
not cold at all, and how anything in
heaven or earth can be said to have
“no temperature,” and one mentions
the point only to demonstrate how very
difficult science can be to the non-
scientific mind.
Not that this book is particularly
difficult. In fact, though chiefly
intended for the amateur astronomer,
to whom it will be invaluable, it is a
compendium which every space-travel-
ler should include in his knapsack, for it
is no less than a complete geographical
guide to the moon—or at least to the
three-fifths of it that can be observed
by the best telescopes. Every “sea,”
every crater, every “grey plain,” every
notable canyon is listed and described,
so that the traveller, when he comes
upon Zupus, for example, should not
have the slightest difficulty in recognis-
ing where, if anywhere, he is:—
Zupus—76o—296 (Italian Jesuit
astronomer, 1590-1650). A crater
about 12 miles in diameter, with very
low walls, linear on the west, en-
closing a dark speckled floor on
which are two craterlets near the
( Continued, on page 35)


From England comes a lull range of the latest
THERMOMETERS
for industrial, office or home use from ©
We’ve just opened a new shipment of these thermometers by one of England’s leading
manufacturers, and we’ve a full range for all uses industrial, office,
or in the home. See them in our Jewellery Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
600
*503
500
1503 j
40Q
3503
300-:
250
200-4
m
100
m
60
40-J
20-y
3004
So
2oa
60-q
'OS
OS
20^
'OS
200-4,
-90
603 i
403
SQS
100
gr'4o
toS
m
‘Oq4Z
“°s
I2ch3
1
From left to right :
1. Desk thermometer on beautiful pigskin stand makes an ideal gift. Priced at 38/6 each.
2. Thermometer for use in ovens, with a novel cat stand, is priced at only 45/6 each.
3. Maximum and minimum temperature thermometer, complete with magnet, at 34/' each.
4. Sweet'making thermometers, ideal for home or commercial use, are priced at 21/' each.
5. Sturdy thermometers, made especially for all household use, are priced at only 7/6 each.
6. Clock'type oven thermometer tells oven temperature at a glance. Priced at 15/6 each.
SsS
S 3
4
■4'
New shipment of German
Linen Testers
Finest quality German-make linen testers
in a solid brass frame. Ideal for all
shop or industrial use. Measures 1 inch
x \ inch. Priced at only 22/6 each.
Hand Reading
Glasses, from 4^6
Left: Hand reading glass, 3", 16/-
Far left: Pocket clip-on
hand reading glass, 4/6 each.
Unillustrated: 2\" hand
reading glass, 10/6.
3-J" hand reading ,
glass, 22/6.
Mail Order Service
When you send an
order to Anthony Hor*
derns’, you can be sure
that even the most
fragile goods will arrive
intact. Our Mail Order
Department will care'
fully pack your order
and dispatch it as soon
as possible.
World Book Club
Even in the country
you can read books of
the minute for a frac'
tion of the price you
would normally pay to
buy them, simply by
joining our World
Book Club. Write to
Book Dept, for details.
★ ★ ★
c
Leather Jackets
Reproofed
Send your shabby
leather jacket to us and
we’ll clean it, reproof
it, put in new zippers,
etc. And charges are
reasonable.
VI
l\ !\.\
Breakfast at 8.30
If you’re staying over-
night in Sydney, come
and have a delicious
breakfast in our second
floor Restaurant. Served
from 8.30 to 10 a.m.,
Monday to Friday.
I
I"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
Box 2712, G.P.O. 9 Sydney . Postage Extra. ’Phone: 80951


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3965
Wednesday, February 8, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PRETTY KETTLE OF FISH
WITH a week to go before the new Federal Parlia-
ment meets, the Government has a pretty kettle of
economic and industrial fish on its hands. The
wharf-strike has struck at a time when it is
important to stimulate exports, stabilise overseas
trade and stem the tide of inflation. London funds
have slipped £5B million in six months. Loans for
public works are getting harder to raise. And costs
stubbornly resist efforts to reduce them.
Truly, the Kremlin is fighting its economic
cold-war “on the cheap” in Australia at the present
time.
In other fields conditions are working against
the Government. If there has been any check on
the spending jag it is not yet readily perceptible.
The demand for labor exceeds the supply, the
bottlenecks largely being caused by astronomical
demand for consumer goods, which unfortunately
are made under labor conditions which contrast
too favorably with those in the heavy-industries.
The loan-market failed to meet the needs of
the States, but the States have been sedulous in
keeping up their pressures for more, and the matter
has a political complexion in view of the imminence
of State elections which transcends the mere
economic issue for the moment.
Mr. Cahill has been clamoring about the need
to prevent from being interrupted “great public
works” in which his Government is involved, but
the fact is that he has had difficulty in spending
the money which he has already received; that no
great public-works project, dam, railway or other-
wise, under his hand has ever been completed or
come near completion or shown evidence of being
anything but the muddled machinery by means of
which he puts the right number of electors into
the right place at the right time and maintains a
perennial pool of loafers and agitators. While he
sneers at private enterprise, private enterprise on
public works in Victoria, N.S.W. and South Aus-
tralia has made his efforts look both shabby and
silly.
It is a tragedy of the first magnitude that he
and his kind can receive from the public funds
huge sums of money without the responsibility of
having to spend it prudently; doubly so in a year in
which world markets are shaky, our overseas trade-
balance-still going to the bad, and the Common-
wealth compelled to find £67 million from its own
resources to meet the “needs” of the States.
For overseas markets the conditions do not
breed confidence. The new wage-demands of the
United Kingdom workers must have a substantial
effect on production-cost of British export goods,
apart from the growing competition of Continental
producing-countries. Decreased export-markets
mean decreased capacity to buy Australian primary
products. But about this few seem to care.
Mr. McEwen, who has taken over the Trade port-
folio, and his associate Ministers in the commercial
field, are faced with a discouraging set of facts,
not the least prominent of which is that their appeal
to reduce Australian production-costs is almost
completely ignored by the unions.
These bodies, having had their appetites excited
by the margins-award for the metal-industries, are
prepared to follow Communist leaders to almost any
length in grab, irrespective of what it does to the
economy or how it jeopardises the future of them-
selves and their families. The situation is the more
unhappy because Australia’s overseas freight-bill
rose by about £ll million last year and because
at this end as a weapon in the industrial
war threatens to cost the country tens of
millions of pounds a month for some time to come.
The only result so far of the newly-returned
Government’s appeal to add a little more work-
content to the day’s labor so as to reduce the basic
competitive cost of export goods has been strikes
and more strikes. And these are not merely
sectional and sporadic. They are becoming nation-
wide, organised by a United Front in which the
Communist party 4s the vanguard leadership and
the A.W.U. and A.C.T.U. a sort of industrial fifth-
column equalled in destructive potency only by the
Federal Opposition. This broken but dangerous
fraction is giving active support to the Communist
leadership.
It needs only the merest glance at the
industrial situation to see the pattern of destruction
at the moment. Ship-movement, and conse-
quently nearly all vital trade from which our pros-
perity arises, is strangled. This is done at the
instance of a union whose leaders are officials of
a body which has been found to be in the pay
of Moscow.
Meanwhile, the A.W.U. is doing its part by
undermining the foundations of the arbitration-
system and debating the possible need to adopt, in
effect, a Communist method of direct pressure on
the employers in consonance with a scheme which
first saw the light in Sydney under the aegis of Mr.
Ernie Thornton, and through support of a strike
against a reduction of wages in consonance with
reduction of wool prosperity. This reduction was
based on theories which the A.W.U. itself designed
but which it argues, apparently, should operate
only for the benefit of one side of the bargain.
Added to these disputes the great electrical
strike in Queensland has plunged the northern
capital in darkened idleness, and in a few weeks,
in conjunction with the wharf-strike and the
destruction of the wool-market, could paralyse the
State.
So far the Governments concerned have done
little to counter these treacherous disruptions. Mr.
Holt has spoken softly.
With every delay the situation has become
worse. And Parliament, faced with the obstruc-
tion of an Opposition which is on the side of the
strikers, which is without sense of responsibility
and without purpose save to wreck the Government
by whatever means happens to be at hand, will need
all its forcefulness and strength to deal with the
situation which confronts it. Of this the main
ingredient needs are the stoppage of the drift in
overseas balances, the resurgence of thrift
and the reduction qf costs through more diligent
work. Its troubles are the more pressing and diffi-
cult to cope with because of the present apparent
prosperity brought by high wages and full employ-
ment and by the leadership of the press almost
universally in wishful-thinking that so long as the
jag is maintained plenty will be eternal.
If the Government does not take a firm grip
during the next two months and deal with its
problems expeditiously it may find that it has lost
the advantages gained by the December election
before the new Senate comes into existence on July
4, when it will also be engaged in framing the most
difficult Budget it has had to handle for a long time.
Transport
TRANSPORT, in, over and around Australia, cost
Australians £1306 million in 1953-54, the latest
year for which full details are available. This
astounding figure was quoted at the Summer School
of Political Science in Canberra by Dr. Harold Bell,
economist to the A.M.P. Society, in opening a
discussion on transport problems. Of the total
railways accounted for £231 million; road-trans-
port, £9Bl million; shipping, £62 million; air, £32
million.
In addition to operating costs, the figures
include loan and revenue capital-expenditure under
the various heads, sinking-fund contributions, cost
of new motor-vehicles, expenditure on roads, ports,
harbors and shipbuilding. The figure represents
29 per cent, of the gross domestic expenditure for
the year, and is equivalent to £145 a head of
population.
An industry which accounts for so high a
proportion of the national expenditure must
obviously employ a large proportion of the nation’s
work-force. Transport, Government and private,
is a big employer. A table prepared by the Com-
monwealth Department of Shipping and Transport
and quoted by Dr. Bell placed the number directly
engaged in transport at June 30, 1954, at 460,300.
In addition, 160,946 persons were employed on
the manufacture and maintenance of vehicles, a
figure which must have increased substantially
since, with the expansion of the motor-car industry.
Even at the earlier level the total directly and
indirectly dependent on transport for a living,
621,246, represents one in every six of the work-
force of Australia.
These figures prompt one to inquire what sort
of service we get from the industry which swallows
close on a third of our expenditure and employs a
sixth of our workers. Australians are apt to take
pride in the fact that in proportion to population
we have a very high mileage of railways and a large
number of motor-vehicles. Only Canada is ahead
of us in mileage per thousand of the population,
and only U.S.A., Canada and New Zealand in the
number of motor-cars per thousand. In percentage
of commercial vehicles we lead the world.
But these figures do not give the full picture.
In proportion to area our rail-mileage is very small
in comparison with more closely-settled lands, and
among countries comparable in size only Russia
and Brazil show a lower figure. And, despite its
high degree of motorisation, Australia is placed at
the bottom of a list compiled by Barclay’s Bank
Review showing the number of motor-vehicles per
mile of road in 16 countries.
The significance of all this is that the capital-
cost of our railway-systems is high in relation to
population and that the cost of maintaining our
extensive but by no means up-to-date network of
roads in first-class order is out of proportion to
the number of vehicles that use them, or are even
available to use them. Further, the concentra-
tion of more than half our population in the capital
cities means that metropolitan railway and other
transport services are strained to capacity while
many country railways are run at a loss for most
of the year, in some cases all the year.
The majority of motor-vehicles, too, are city-
owned, which means that they can’t be put to full
economic use owing to parking- and other
restrictions made necessary by overcrowding.
But if urban transport is the main preoccupa-
tion of tbe greater part of the Australian com-
munity and, hence, of a most powerful part of
the electorate, there are other areas in which the
adequacy of present transport arrangements are
being called in question, and though they lack
the degree of popular clamor associated with the
urban transport problem powerful national con-
siderations may exist which give them special
claims for attention. Of these, most attention has
been attracted to the argument for new and
improved highway-construction between the main
centres of population, a demand which springs
partly from private motorists but more vocifer-
ously from road-hauliers and associated interests.
Dr. Bell concludes that although physical and
Constitutional problems make the Australian
transport-system a costly one to maintain and a
difficult one to administer, this is no excuse for
having a system that is inefficient. This applies to
both Government and private transport, and should
be carefully considered by those in control of both
sections of the industry as well as by those employed
in it and even those using it.
The huge transport work-force has a particu-
larly heavy responsibility to the community
because it is in a unique position to affect the
burden of costs of the community as well as to
influence the safety and convenience of its
members. Users of transport can themselves help
by acquiring a better understanding of the very
real difficulties which confront those concerned
with the provision of transport facilities.
On the subject of road-transport, Mr. L. A.
Shumer told the Summer School that only 30 per
cent, of Australian roads were surfaced; in America
the percentage was 64 per cent. It was clear (from
figures already quoted) that the present volume of
road traffic was not sufficient to bear the cost of
providing roads of the quality common in America,
and that use should be made of loan-funds for road-
construction and -improvement, users meeting the
charge of interest and redemption. He also advo-
cated the earmarking for road purposes of taxes on
fuel and tyres, registration-fees, drivers’ licence-
fees and regulatory-fees.
Mr. Shumer accepts the principle of regulated
competition, which, he says, has been accepted in
all Australian States as well as in many other
countries, including America, the home of free
enterprise, where under Federal regulation the
motor-carrier industry has in the past 20 years
attained maturity and stability. He doubts whether
Australia has the “right kind of regulation.”
So far it has tended to give undue protection
to the railways because of State-ownership and
the political power of the vested interests
therein. Restricted regulation has been applied
only to road-transport, leaving the railways free
to continue unprofitable services and to indulge
in destructive competition with a regulated road-
transport system.
Present practice seems to be based on an
erroneous belief that maximum use of the railways
necessarily produces lower costs. This, of course,
is not so if the goods diverted from road to rail
could have been carried more economically by
road.
Because of this wrong outlook regulation has
tended towards “clumsy restraints in the form of
ton-mile taxes and operating-licence fees, the
arbitrary nature of which must result in wastage of
resources by use of the wrong form of transport in
many instances.” Furthermore, decisions which do
take economic facts into consideration are often
overruled for purely political reasons.
Mr. Shumer says that “independent, impartial,
intelligent and dynamic regulation can co-ordinate
road and rail because it can go beyond subsidies,
taxation and faulty rating, and base its decisions on
community cost.” Such regulation would depend
on an economic, not a political, approach.
Any impartial observer of political actions in
transport during the past 20 years could be
excused if he reached the conclusion that such an
achievement was impossible but, nevertheless, the
issues are so important that hope should not give
way to despair. Perhaps the desirable result may
be obtained in due course by education within
and without the transport industry. If reason
cannot prevail, it may be that we shall have to
allow unrestrained competition to break the
present impasse and thereafter rebuild our trans-
port-system on a new basis.
It is to be hoped that it will not be necessary
to resort to the second alternative.


LOAN
<g®UN)©fl!L
ALL-DAY SUCKERS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Meetings, Two Ideals
The Washington meeting between Sir
Anthony Eden and President Eisenhower
found itself taking place at the same
time as the strategic conference of parties
to the Eastern European Military Pact.
The Pact meeting was hurriedly con-
vened after it was known that the British
Prime Minister was going to the United
States. And President Bulganin’s note
to the U.S. President was timed to reach
him while Eden was on the water, and
was obviously intended to divide Britain
and the U.S.A. by ignoring the former
and treating America as the dominating
factor in the West. These events ran
with the conference of Seato military
heads in Australia and precede the con-
gress of the Communist party of the
U.S.S.R. this month, which will set the
new world line for Russia and for the
overseas Communist parties.
That line has been in process of de-
velopment for more than a year, and its
general course seems clear: a new kind
of Communism, one that does not go its
full length; in fact, a world Socialism
which somehow allows adherents to be
Communists and consort on terms of
friendship with the Communist hierarchy,
without being Communists in the full
sense.
It is a line which was developed in
China and Czechoslovakia, and seems to
be a twist of policy to get over the
doctrine of Marxism-Leninism that the
capitalist world and the Communist world
cannot live together. It offers the people
of the Welfare States a halfway house,
and Dr. Evatt the means of
securing a united front with Communism
and with their democratic consciences at
one and the same time.
Professor Hromadka, of Czechoslo-
vakia, is. publicising its formula with
great success in Australia just now as a
bait for Christian churchmen.
If, he says, “you mean by Communism
a Communist ideology—metaphysics—
then a Christian cannpt be a Communist.
But if you mean by Communism a certain
school of political action, the recon-
struction of society on a social basis, I
do believe it possible.” Even, it seems
(since Professor Hromadka lives com-
fortably in his native country), if the
“reconstruction” is achieved by the force
of Red Army conquest, the country which
achieves it is reduced to the status of a
prison out of and into which only those
of service to the Communist cause are
usually allowed to travel, and if it supplies
an Army and arms devoted to the causes
of Soviet Russia and Marxism-Leninism
which aim ultimately at further “social
reconstruction” of the world complete
with bayonets and slave-camps.
It is obvious that the great English-
speaking countries have no illusions
about what the kind of reconstruction to
which the professor’s country is a party
leads towards, especially in a week in
which some of the Communist idealists
in Malaya have been throwing bombs
into police-stations by way of celebrating
an anniversary, killing a few women and
children in the process of letting off their
fireworks.
President Eisenhower and the U.K.
Prime Minister have expressed them-
selves firmly determined to check aggres-
sive Communism in Asia, particularly in
the Middle East, where the “reconstruc-
tors” are doing their best to sow the seeds
of a new war through agitation in the
Arab world. The U.S. and U.K. affirm
the principles of the North Atlantic
Treaty, and agree to prevention of inter-
ference by Red-ants with the domestic
stability of peaceful Western countries.
More has come out about that con-
ference than about the meeting of the
Eastern European Military Pact heads in
Professor Hromadka’s Prague behind the
Iron Curtain, which is the hub of an
army seeded through with Russian
advisers and dominated by a Russian
military mission numbering a thousand.
All that is clear is that the main partici-
pants were Marshal Zhukov (Russian
Minister for Defence), Molotov and
Marshal Koniev (Commander-in-Chief of
the Eastern European Pact forces). No-
body else, apparently, is important
enough to mention. And the main
purpose seems to have been the formula-
tion of a plan under which the millions
of unwilling conscripts who are being
roped into the forces of the Eastern
armies of threat and aggression will be
indoctrinated with Communist principles
during their military service.
The Washington conference sounds a
tame meeting beside the grim and closely
guarded one in “democratic,” “Christian”
Prague, where, during reconstruction,
statesmen anathema to Moscow were apt
accidentally to fall out of high windows
or suddenly to be revealed as spies of
the United States and would-be assassins
worthy of a bullet in the vertebrae. The
Washington meeting’s output is described
as “disappointing and vapid,” but it is
quite obvious that behind it there must be
a laying-down of specific principles and
lines of action in regard to one important
matter —the threat of force. Soviet-
inspired and -encouraged, to violate the
Palestine frontiers as a test of the firmness
and strength of Western unity and deter-
mination in Asia.
It is patent that the English-speaking
Powers, even if France does not join in,
will consider reacting to any threat to
Israel’s integrity in “concrete terms,” and
that Palestine and the eastern Mediter-
ranean has become a test-area.
International Reserves
Australia’s gold and foreign-exchange
holdings fell from £428 million at the
end of June, 1955, to £370 million at the
end of December. This was an improve-
ment on the lowest level reached between
the two dates.
Trade-balance for the six months was
£33 million to the bad, against a £32-
million deficit for July-December, 1954.
Freight-charges were £5l million (against
£4O million), “invisibles” a debit of £36
million (unchanged), and the adverse
balance on current account was £l2O
EIGHT PROFESSORS
PRESCRIBE—page 14
million, against £lOB million. Inflow of
capital was £62 million, compared with
£43 million, and the net adverse balance-
of-payments for the six months was £5B
million, against £65 million.
Speaking in the House of Representa-
tives on September 27, 1955, Prime
Minister Menzies said that Australia’s
international reserves then stood at about
£370 million. It would not inevitably be
disastrous if they were somewhat below
£3OO million at the end of the financial
year. Rut, he added, it would Ije disas-
trous if nothing were done meantime to
check the fall in reserves.
On the same occasion the Prime
Minister said: “On behalf of the Govern-
ment I state quite categorically that we
are determined to have no depreciation
of the currency.”
The eight economists who last week
issued a joint opinion on Australia’s
present drift raise doubts about this
country’s ability to resist devaluation
unless suggested measures are enforced;
their contentions are discussed on
page 14.
Shadow-sparring with
Sedition
Another week of shadow-sparring in
Canberra saw the wharf-strike still going
on. And in Queensland there was a
Ministerial round-table conference on
the power-strike which had blacked-out
Brisbane and its surrounding area. All
the Gair Government could submit to
the strikers was a suggestion that they
should go back to work on present
award rates, submit their claim to
arbitration with a promise from the
Electricity Authority that it would
co-operate with them in obtaining an
early hearihg, and confer with the
unions before the hearing on the basis
that it “agreed there was merit in their
claim and approached the conference with
that in mind.” Following'a failure to
agree on these terms the registrar of the
industrial court convened a compulsory
conference without further effect.
On February 1 the Queensland rail-
ways closed down on the overtime issue
for 24 hours—just like that!—and the
boilermakers and ironworkers in some
of the railway workshops were moving
towards a strike. *ln the railway-
stoppage 28,000 men lost an average day’s
pay of £3 each, and goods and passengers
piled up regardless. On February 6
drastic rail-cuts began as a result of
the A.R.U. s overtime ban, the power-
strike and the wharf-strike, and all
industry was preparing for a shut-down.
The wharf-strike proceedings were
illuminated all the week with the light
of a and obscured in a dust of
busybodying and agitation. Mr. Holt,
the Minister for Labor and Industry’
didn t contribute much either to the
strength of the Government’s hand or to
the support of the arbitration-system
hrough his offer of a solution which he
placed before a conference with the
A.C.T.U. and the rebellious unions.
It has always been the firm claim of
the Commonwealth Government that it
cannot interfere in the processes of
arbitration, yet Mr. Holt was prepared
to suggest to an arbitration-court judge,
who has already dealt with the matter
again and again, that he should take
certain courses in conference at the
request of the rebels against the court’s
reiterated decisions, and even the
terms and the minimum rate of pay on
which his Honor should hold that con-
ference. His action and attitude repre-
sented a tactical win for Comrade
Healy and his Communists, whatever
else it did to suggest a conciliatory
attitude on the part of the Government
to arrogant industrial standover-men who
deserve no consideration and no quarter,
whatever the merits of the claim for
increased wages.
The net result of his attitude and
of a subsequent conference of the 18
unions of the A.C.T.U. held before the
weekend was that, as the strike came to
its third week, it was still going strong,
the initiative was still in the hands of
Mr. Monk and Mr. Healy, those curious
allies ; and Mr. Holt and Mr. Bland (his
offsider) were still conferring with them
as if they were law-abiding equals of the
Government —a sort of foreign State
within a local U.N.O. rather than an out-
law group which has flouted the arbitra-
tion law and the “Labor” party’s own
policy and resorted to force against the
community utterly regardless of its
general welfare and the effect on the
national economy.
The outcome of Mr. Holt’s negotiation
left 200 ships idle in 53 Australian ports
at the weekend, going on for 100,000
workers, mostly not connected with the
strike in any way, threatened with being
stood-down in coal, land-transport, the
motor-car and other industries. More-
over, if the strikers win even in sub-
stantial degree it is almost certain that
other union-leaders who have no desire
to help inflation and puff-up the cost of
living by developing the vicious spiral
caused by further all-round wage-rises
will find themselves pressed by their
members for strikes. Ironworkers and
coalminers will be among these.
The outlook appeared pretty dark as
this was written. It seemed to be a
choice between a negotiated settlement
achieved by Mr. Holt and his secretary,
Mr. Bland, which would greatly increase
the power and arrogance, of the Com-
munist leaders, or a continuance and
expansion of the disruption already pro-
duced, both here and in other States,
which have not yet felt the full force of
the present lawless proceedings.
It remains to be seen whether Cabinet,
or, failing Cabinet, Parliament when it
meets next week, will prove less compli-
ant than those who are now dealing with 1
the matter.
Happy or Unhappy?
Premier Cahill usually goes home froirfc
Loan Council meetings in much happier
mood than when he arrives. The reason
for this is simple; it lies in the Cahill
technique. For two or three weeks before
a meeting of the Council the New South
Wales Premier pulls a long face about
the condition of his State’s finances, the
lag in the public-works programme
through lack of funds and the imminent
threat of closing-down developmental
projects, throwing thousands of men out
of employment, unless the Federal Gov-
ernment can be persuaded tjo loosen its
purse-strings and release some of its
hoarded millions. The hard-luck story
always ignores the fact that the Federal
Government has two votes at Council
meetings against the sik'-qist by Cahill
apd his fellow-Premiers.
When the Council opens its proceed-
ings, Cahill (like his colleagues) announces
a figure which he claims is the irreduc-
ible minimum his State requires to finance
its year’s operations. The Common-
wealth representatives then produce a
Treasury estimate of the probable amount
of loan-money that can be expected and
state to what extent they are prepared to
supplement tnis from revenue. Cahill and
his colleagues then cry “Woe!” and say
it will be impossible to manage on such
a pittance.
Then there’s an adjournment. The
Premiers talk things over and suggest a
cut in their programmes. It’ll kill them,
they say—and Cahill says it most
vehemently of all—but they’ll try to
manage. The Commonwealth suggests a
much bigger cut, but the Premiers say
they can’t even think of it. Another
deadlock. Then the Commonwealth
throws in £lO million it has found lying
about in a trust-fund or somewhere and
says that’s the last word, take it or leave
it! The Premiers take it, swearing all
the time it’ll be the ruin of them. Cahill
returns to Sydney very happy. He’s got
more than he really expected, and because
it is less than he asked he is able to abuse
the parsimony of the Federal Govern-
ment and make political capital out of
the whole business.
But the latest Loan Council meeting
didn’t quite follow the usual pattern
For that matter, it wasn’t a usual meet
ing, but one called halfway through the
financial year to consider whether the
year’s programme would have to be
curtailed. Cahill apparently decided in
advance that it would be and, with an
election in the offing, went into his usua
songandance about being starved ol
funds, forced to close-down essential
works and so on.
Came the meeting, and the pro-
gramme wasn’t cut down at- all;
the Commonwealth didn’t even suggesi
such a thing—instead it undertook to
make good deficiencies in loan-raisings.
So Cahill was able to return to Sydney
not only with more than he expected but
with just as much as he had asked for.
That should be enough to make any
Premier happy. But not Premier Cahill!
This time loan-money was the one thing
he didn’t want. You can’t fight the
Cahill kind of election-campaign on loan-
money. You fight it on lack of loan-
money. Which explains why Cahill
wasn’t as happy as usual when he reached
the old home town.
The Atom and Australia
It may be difficult, and there may be
good reasons against it, but it would be
healthy if some authoritative statement
could be made about the proposals to
hold further atomic tests in central Aus-
tralia during the coming two years. It
is being left to newspapers to discover
what is to take place, and if their dis-
coveries are genuine, other people will
have made them, too.
Communist propaganda is already at
work on a very large-scale whispering-
campaign about the danger to the health
and safety of the world in these tests.
Every ill from hepatitis to ingrowing-
toenails and hailstorms is being blamed
on those that have so far been made by
the United States; though it would
appear from their regular continuance
on a scale which Bulganin boasts to be
the greatest-ever, the Russian type of
weapon is a benign instrument which has
no effects on human well-being.
A particular campaign is being carried
on among workers and in the Communist
press against the testing of bombs in
Australia. It seems unlikely that the
hydrogen “three-decker,” which is
ballooning into the exploding-planet
class under the imaginative treatment of
the London yellow press, will be
detonated on the Australian mainland,
though if it were in the central desert it
would probably do little harm, subject
to the wind being right. But it does seem
probable that there will be some staging
and triggering experiments connected
with civilian and military field-protection,
with soldier volunteers as guinea-pigs, to
test the efficacy of trenches and other
experimental works.
These may not have any significance
as regards the physical well-being of the
population at large, but they have a
double significance in relation to defence.
Australia is' being turned into an
atomic laboratory in which, in five years,
both military- and civilian-purpose
research may be in the world forefront
It is thus presented with a major oppor-
tunity to capitalise its chances of benefit-
ing to the limit by atomic development
and research. It calls for a national
policy of training, and it also calls for
decentralisation of that training. There
is at present in some quarters a
tendency on the part of Australian
scientists to pour scorn on the abilities
and enterprise of other atomic scientists
and to paint their own particular atomic
pulpits as the home of the only true creed
and habitat of the high-priests.
What is necessary most of all is a
diffusion of effort, a competition in
advancement, in research and in teaching
and application of the results to industry
and defence.
If a policy to advance these ideas is
nationally adopted, as it certainly must
be, having regard to our peculiar nature
as a country and our peculiar needs in
power-production and -distribution, it
will change the strategical relationship of
Australia to the rest of the world in a
marked degree.
Within the next years a great deal
of thought will have to be given to the
reorientation of defence and security
policies in the light of these facts,


POLITICAL POINTS
Mark Foy’s and Grace Brothers —on the
ground of fire-risks, although both have
been in regular use for many years. Yet
the Stadium, apparently, is still considered
as safe as houses.
• •
One of the curiosities of the broadcast
news on the eve of the Loan Council
meeting was an announcement that the
Premiers were having a secret meeting in
the Hotel Canberra to plan strategy in
opposition to the expected announce-
ments by the Prime Minister and the
Treasurer. It might have been that the
N.S.W. Premier and his deputy, who were
noted by the yokels in the Hotel Canberra
bar about 5 p.m., were plotting
something with their fellow “Labor”
Premiers later in the evening. But it
seemed hardly likely that Playford and
Bolte were joining any conspiratorial line
being proposed by the Cahill-Gair-
Hawke-Cosgrove axis.
• •
Phillips, Q.C., says that Section 92 of
the Constitution should be restored to
the original meaning intended by its
framers, with modifications in the light
of experience. But haven’t all those
court cases turned on differences of
opinion as to what' was the original
intention of the framers?
• •
Apart from imposing restrictions, the
Queensland Government has done noth-
ing to lighten the northerfi Dark Age;
When this went to the printer the N. S.
Wales “Labor” caucus was holding a
Monday meeting—a most unusual pro-
ceeding, as it chops into members’ long
weekend —and the pigeons were whisper-
ing that Cahill was about to spring a
March 3 election.
• •
Opposition parties claim to be quite
ready for a poll. The Libs, have arranged
a rally at Sydney Town Hall on Thurs-
day night when Morton will “deal with
the case against the Cahill Government
and outline the principles of a Liberal
party New Deal for New South Wales.”
• •
Laymen may be excused for wondering
how, after a week of abortive conferences,
Minister for Labor Holt and A.C.T.U.
president Monk found sufficient new
ground on Sunday to keep them talking
for several hours. A.B.C. news, to
illustrate the strenuous nature of the
talks, mentioned that afterwards Holt met
reporters “tieless and coatless.” Sounds
more as if the two had been having a
willing game of ping-pong—or chess.
• •
This week will settle the great question
of whether Dr. Evatt is to continue leader
of the federal Labor Party. His chances
seem to be two to one on, not because his
followers love him —they would leave
him almost to a man if they could —but
because nobody is game to test further
the creaking seams of the leaking ship.
Still, when passion gets out of control
discretion may get crushed in the melee ;
it remains to be seen what happens in
caucus.
• •
At the Sydney civic reception given to
the visiting members of the World
Council of Churches, Colonial Secretary
Gus Kelly jocularly said he was glad to
see them in N.S.W. because he felt that
some of his fellow-Ministers were in sore
need of spiritual guidance. But how
right he was!
• •
April 7 will be the date of the West-
ralian elections mentioned earlier as
March 3. Party numbers in the
Assembly have been even since the Bun-
bury by-election, and_ before Parliament
rose in November the Opposition sought
a January election. Premier Hawke
rejected this, but indicated that he had
in mind a date round about February 23.
Apparently he now feels that a later poll
will suit his party better and is not
deterred by the fact that the Easter holi-
days will fall in the last week of the
campaign.
• •
At least three members of the W.A.
Assembly will not be seeking re-election,
H. M. McCulloch, a Scottish Coalminer
who won M.M. and the Italian Bronze
Medal W'ith the British Regular Army in
War I and has been “Labor” M.LA. for
Hannans since 1949; Victor Doney,
Country-party member for Narrogin
since 1928, and a Minister in the McLarty
Government 1947-53. Doney. who is
a Cornishman who fought in South
Africa and the 1914-18 war, had his
74th birthday on Christmas Day. The
third member is Dame Florence Cardell-
Oliver, Liberal member for Subiaco
since 1936 and first woman to reach
Cabinet rank in Australia.
• •
Playford is demanding to be told the
full details of Snowy Mountains Agree-
ment between the Commonwealth and
the N. S. Wales and Victorian Govern-
ments. He wants to be sure it doesn’t
infringe the Murray Waters Agreement,
which allocates river water among the
three riparian States and on which South
Australia’s irrigation settlement depend
as well as the Whyalla pipeline and
portion of Adelaide’s water-supply.
• •
M. Guy Mollet has become the leader
of France’s 22nd post-war Government.
In that time Britain has had three Prime
Ministers, Australia two.
• •
A Government ban has been placed on
the ballrooms of two Sydney stores —
GETTING HARD OF HEARING
Brisbane wharves are full of ships, empty
of movement j the Railways Commis-
sioner arranged train-schedules so that
striking train-crews could get back to
their depots by midnight on the day they
walked off. But the Law was upheld in
one instance. The City Council called on
the Lawn Tennis Association to give
cause why its Milton tennis-court licence
should not be suspended —the champion-
ships were played on a Sunday.
• «
Australian wharfies, to the Kremlin,
are expendable. Thrown unwillingly
(for the most part) into the Australian
front of the cold-war, they were very
soon hard-up. Towards the end of last
week striking wharfies in Sydney were
trying to raise the wind by building-to-
building canvass in the city and more
than were required were offering to do
the limited ship-servicing allowed by the
Com.-run union in Sydney.
• •
Eight perfessers to tell you what to
do! How Jack Lang would have boiled.
• •
Once again the Governor-General,
without entering directly into current
controversies, has said something perti-
nent. In his Australia Day broadcast
his Ex. said everyone knew that
there are on both sides of industry some who
have yielded, short-sightedly, to the temptations
of easy profits and slack working. Yet in Aus-
tralia today there are two unforgivable sins
against our fellow-citizens —to be unenterprising
and selfish in management and to demand
increased pay for a job that we do not do even
moderately we 11... .There is a direct relation
between the standard of living and the standard
of working. Good profits go with good man-
agement; high wages with high output. And
there is no other way of permanently getting
either.
• •
Trial-by-jury is under fire again in
Sydney. It’ll probably survive the
attacks, but one alteration that could well
be made would be to limit the responsi-
bility of juries in accident-compensation
cases to determining whether or not the
defendant is to pay-up. How much he is
to pay could be left to the judge, as is
the sentence in criminal cases.
• •
Nye Bevan, beaten by Hugh Gaitskell
for leadership of the British Labor Party,
has also been passed over for the post
of deputy-leader. James Griffiths got the
job; voting, 141 to 111.
A day after his defeat for the deputy-
leadership Bevan told a meeting at Man-
chester, “If the Labor party is not going
to be a Socialist party, I don’t want to
lead it.” Sour grapes are apparently in
season in Britain.
• •
K. M. Holland, a son of the late
member, will be “Labor” candidate for
the Flemington seat in the Victorian
Assembly at the by-election on February
18. J. C. Madden is standing as Anti-
Communist “Labor” candidate and J. C.
Jones as an Independent Liberal.
• •
Sanitary-developments in the Banks-
town district, as plotted through the
“Observers” and “Torch”-bearers, dis-
close that residents are starting a clean-up
of one aspect with an Operation Sewerage
Committee. The stretch of Milperra-road
near Bankstown aerodrome has always
been, of necessity, a speed-section for
motorists. But now municipal administra-
tion, through Mr. Renshaw’s Mr. Dane,
proposes a new sanitary-depot —as Opera-
tion Sewerage convenor Oliver puts it,
“slap bang in the middle of a housing-
settlement.”
• •
"Stromlo”: What are the plans of
Anti-Communist “Labor” in the impend-
ing State elections? Lobby whispers in
Canberra have included the phrase
“Democratic Socialist party” as a possible
alternative name for the organisation
which lost all its Reps, seats, but will
nevertheless hold the Senate balance of
power after July 1. 'Whether there is a
change of name or not, the intervention
of the party in the State polls will be a
major political development.
• •
C. T. Oliver, secretary of the N. S.
Wales branch of the A.W.U., told the
union’s annual conference, “We must
dissociate ourselves publicly from the
unwanted support of the Communist
party.” Whereupon conference endorsed
the decisions of the A.L.P. Hobart con-
ference and condemned the sending of
Australian troops to Malaya.
• •
“Honest Frank”: Premier Gair on de-
centralisation : “... .from 1947-54
Central Queensland’s population in-
creased by 11.2 per cent.” Actually
since the 1933 census the increase for
C.Q. was 25.5 per cent., confined solely
to Rockhampton division, which gained
17,916 persons. The inclusive Central-
Western division lost 540, or 2.4 per cent.,
Far-Western lost 110, or 2 per cent. In
the N.W.Q. division there was a gain
of 2789 people, but as the “bonanza”
city of Mt. Isa increased by 4191 the
rest of the section (Hughenden, Flinders,
McKinlay, Richmond, etc.) really lost
1402. The total area of the combined
Far-West, Central-West and North-West
is 326,916 square miles, nearly half the
State. The people who live there know
all about “decentralisation.” As far as
they’re concerned, there isn’t any!
• •
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne City Coun-
cil has installed wait-walk signs at the
Elizabeth-Bourke-street intersection, but
close observation fails to reveal any but
an infinitesimal advantage to the
pedestrian, who now has a few more
signals to remember, and the careless
motorist a few more to forget. The
safest way to cross a street in Melbourne
remains to jaywalk. The jaywalker
knows that he has to depend on his own
skill and that it’s a case of the quick or
the dead.
• •
The Anti-Communist “Labor” party
intends to contest several seats in the
South Australian election.
• •
• “In the ACT”: Control of star-gazing
in Canberra is currently under considera-
tion by the Prime Minister’s Department,
the Department of the Interior, the Public
Service Boar.d and the National Univer-
sity, following the departure of Professor
R. v.d. R. Woolley to become Astrono-
mer-Royal in Britain. Woolley, former
Commonwealth Astronomer, was also
head of the astronomy department at the
university, and the future control of Mt.
Stromlo Observatory has thus become a
subject of departmental debate. It is be-
lieved that many astronomers will seek
the now-vacant post, because of the scope
for research in Southern skies and the
link with the university, but no early
announcement is expected.
• ■ •
The “depression babies” are still
prominent in the statistics. The latest
population-tables show that the number
of adolescents in the age-group 16 to 20
years decreased from 596,552 in 1947 to
577,774 in 1954. The drop was due to
the low birth-rate in 1934-38 ; it would
have been far greater but for the 41,000
adolescent migrants who arrived from
1947 onwards. Even so, the deficiency
will affect the balance of Australia’s
work-force, and also marriage- and birth-
rates for some years yet.
9 •
“Stromlo”: Ceylon recently got into
the United Nations, after trying for many
years, as a result of the “package deal.”
Ceylon’s Prime Minister, Sir John Kotala-
wala, who lately visited Australia, sent
a personal message to Marshal Bulganin,
thanking the Soviet Union for the role
it played at U.N. in support of the deal.
Bulganin, in a reply of thanks for the
message, added:
The Soviet Government and the Soviet
people note with satisfaction that Ceylon
and a large group of other Bandoeng
[Afro-Asian] conference countries have
been admitted into the United Nations.
Very polite, no doubt. But what does it
portend?
• •
There’s a move in W-A. to acquire for
the State a house in Somerset (England)
said to have been the birthplace of
William Dampier. The idea is to re-
erect it in Perth as a memorial on the
lines of Captain Cook’s cottage in
Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
• •
From Molongloside:
The resignation of Sir Thomas White as High
Commissioner leaves the Government with the
usual problem of State fights on its hands in
filling the gap. If Sir Philip Mcßride goes, as
seems likely, it makes it inevitable that South
Australia will have the nomination for the
Ministry—otherwise -it will be left without
representation. Moreover, there’ll be wigs on
the green if it is not represented in the policy
Cabinet. If Sir Eric Harrison should go, the
question will arise of filling the Defence Pro-
duction Ministry, whose incumbent at present
is somewhat absurdly senior in Cabinet rank
to the Defence Minister because of his personal
seniority. If Mr. McMahon is promoted to
Cabinet that will not be taken too lightly in
some quarters, though it will be welcqmed by
the flapper press, which apparently is
impressed by the wall-to-wall carpets and other
trappings of hjs Ministerial surroundings.
In any case, for the vacancy in the Ministry,
a South Australian seems to have more than a
fair chance —probably A. R. Downer or John
McLeay, who is an ex-Lord Mayor of Adelaide.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
YVfAS stopped by a couple of teen-
age tourists, who asked for direc-
tions. As I moved off, having given the
necessary info., one said to the other
admiringly (I hope), “Cluey sort of clot,
isn’t she?” —“Rimutuka.”
♦> +> ♦♦♦
“Mari”: Large, with Italian features
and shining black hair, and in a shapeless
neck-to-ankle dress, she let him go
through all the talk about his vacuum-
cleaner to his climactic suggestion of
going inside and demonstrating it. Then
she said, “No unnerstan’ Ingleesh.” He
had got halfway into his stride with the
woman-next-door when a voice drifted
round the side of the house: “You there,
Elsie . . . ? I’ve just fooled a salesman
with my dumb-Italian act.” Before Elsie
could think up a good one the salesman
put his head round the corner and said,
“You did, too!”
* *x* +>
“Mac Hoots”: For years I’ve thought
Sydney’s most correct, courteous and
dignified liftman is the attendant of
military bearing who conducts you to
whoever is going to cut you up, physically
or financially, in the B.M.A. building in
Macquarie-street. I’ve only just learned,
with a slight prickling of the spine, that
his name is Mr. Hatchett.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: Perth, little given to
monuments, never boasts of the hand-
some, creamy-fawn tower on its northern
boundary. This lofty, impressive struc-
ture, by sight familiar to thousands and
a landmark visible for miles, is rarely
visited. Pity, rather—the austere decora-
tion over its 120 ft. height and its massive
architecture give it a dignified beauty.
Functional, too —it carries antennae for
police-radio and houses a laboratory.
Modestly inscribed “M.W.W.S. & D.
DEPT. 1941,” it surely is the most
grandly designed sewer-ventilator and
sewage-control laboratory in Australia.
<4 4j»
“Avon”: Reading about the New
Zealand bowling championships, I’m
convinced the sport is a young man’s
game and that I have come into it too
late at 40-odd. The statistics-minded
compute that in 14 playing-days at
Dunedin competitors sent down 1,200,000
bowls of a total weight approaching 2000
tons for a distance of about 165,000
miles. Indeed, that’s how much my four
seem to weigh and how far they’re off
kitty any of these blazing afternoons.
❖ ❖
“Dorian”: Congregation of a certain
Sydney church was electrified when its
rector announced a visit by the “Queen
of Tar . . . Tonga.”
❖ ❖ *
“Oliver Filter”: When American
faith-healer Oral Roberts spoke of a
mule instead of an ass (B. 1/2/’56) he
was probably only overcoming an oral
difficulty some Americans have, though
they can be anatomical about tramps
without a blush.
♦♦♦ ❖ *t*
“S.”: I listened with much pleasure to
the A.B.C. broadcast of swaggie-songs
arranged by Nancy Keesing and sung by
the Bushwhackers. But if ever admirable
words were put to a monstrously
inappropriate tune it is “The Billy of
Tea,” sung to the air of “Bonny
Dundee”: the one so tranquilly Aus-
tralian, the other so rousingly Scottish.
Somebody ought to prevent this sacri-
lege, and at the same titpe give us a song
that could be immensely popular in Aus-
tralia, by writing a new tune for it.
+J+ »j-
-“ Phillida”: I stood at the counter in
a Hobart bank. I put my bag on the
counter when my turn came. The catch
sprang open under my hand and about
two-dozen bottle-tops burst out and
rolled all over the counter. The teller
helped me collect the tops, while he
tittered about “counterfeit coinage” and
I meditated revenge on my young
brother. 6
❖ ❖ $
“X.S.”: The new clubhouse of the
Beaumaris (Vic.) R.S.L. will be The
Point, a 23-room homestead overlooking
Port Phillip, and the first building put up
at Beaumaris. It was built by Captain
Ricketts at the point which bears his
name and at which he made his first
landing. In 1890 it was bought by the
Matthew Laing family and later by
Thomas Turner Shaw, whose son, Major
Harry Shaw, was first to fly a small plane
from Melbourne to Sydney—he subse-
quently used the plane to fly daily to work
“And Were you there when the accident happened ?”
at Port Melbourne, where he builds
boats. His own house, Point Side, was
made-up from the stables and coach-
house of The Point, and its style sho\ys
how grandly even stables were built in
those days.
♦♦♦
“Uramao”: A queer book that came
into the possession of a secondhand-
bookseller in Wellington (N.Z.) prompted
him to communicate with the British
Museum, the Library of Congress and
the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. None
possessed a copy, so he wrote to the
Vatican Library, Rome. It possessed the
book, Galeria Ccesarea, by Porporino, a
chronicle of the women of the Caesars,
printed in Faenza, Italy, in 1672. The
New Zealand copy has an inset plate and
other things that the Vatican’s has not.
R. Reynolds, the bookman, says many
rare books are now coming to his shop,
including a Holinshed Chronicle of
England, a fount of inspiration to
Shakspeare.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Robbie”: Tell “Avon” (B. 11/l/’56)
that Ballarat has its piecart, modern
motor-trailer, opposite the Town Hall
every night. It does good business with
late dancers, transport-drivers and night-
shifters. Knew a party-host who was
eaten-out and replenished there at 2 a.m.
“Stan”: Melbourne may have lost its
pie-carts, but its outdoor catering-service
will offer the Olympic visitor hot potato-
chips, chicken-rolls and pineapple- and
banana-fritters, all from converted vans
staffed by white-coated proprietors. Even
the dog-and-roll stand is progressive ; in
some instances adding a tablecloth and
a till. The popular mussel may yet
inspire a banquet similar to the tradi-
tional American “clam bake.”
“Chevroford”: A Melbourne motorist
left a black snake made of rubber coiled-
up in the back seat of his parked car to
deter purloiners. It was so effective that
a police patrol-car was on the spot within
half-an-hour, having been summoned by
a startled passer-by. A few hours later
it was in all the papers. The inventor is
now said to be working on a papier-
m&che car-thief. Nobody ever reports
them.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Dorian”: If one of us boys was late
for choir-practice the penalty was to
bend over and receive on the posterior
a cut with a feather-duster —not the
feathery part. Punishment-rate was one
cut for every tarried five-minutes, with
the proviso that this rule applied also to
.the choirmaster. I’ll never forget the
morning Authority turned-up a full
quarter-hour late. Agonised expression
on the choirmaster’s face as he
straightened-up after “three of the best”
by the heftiest choirboy appeased many
former latecomers.
“C. Vale”: A few members are
rostered as stewards at the luncheons
which precede the weekly gab-fests of
Sydney’s Rostrum Club. During my
recent visit an irate, apparently starving
member arose halfway through the meal
to denounce the lack of service and
demand the names of those on duty.
The chairman scanned the roster, then
rose and, with admirable dead-pan face
and tone, started to read it aloud ; and
lo! the complainant’s name led all the
rest.
❖❖ , *
“Ex-Comp.”: In her delightful
Bulletin story “The Beauty Treatment”
Nancy Cato speaks of a news-item “set
in the same twelve-point minion as the
rest of the paper.” In my own newspaper-
days “minion” measured up as seven-
point, between nonpareil and brevier.
Twelve-point was listed as “pica.” On
the old Adelaide “Register” they used
minion, and when they turned over to
machine-setting they sold quantities of
minion type, at sixpence-a-pound, to
some country papers that were still on
hand-setting. It was an awkward size to
fit in with the point-system when making-
up—brevier being much handier, with its
eight points—but it enabled much more
news to be crowded into a given space.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.L.D.”: No ; that hotel in Aix-en-
Provence named the Roy Rene had no
connection with Australia’s “Mo.” It
is named after “Good King Rene”—
Rene of Anjou, titular King of Naples,
and feudatory ruler of Provence under
the overlordship of the King of France.
He was greatly loved, and his memory
is still revered in Provence. After his
death Provence came directly under the
rule of the King of France.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Nobs”: Can’t understand why one
of the wags adept at alterations in shop-
window advertisements and railway-
carriage warnings hasn’t reaped a rich
reward for a small effort on the fruiterer’s
window I pass every morning. Boldly,
fruifshop-fashion, across the pane:
A. Maniaci.
❖ »>
“Maitri”: Since first the two lads had
come into the world they’d been tended,
nourished, guarded and guided like rare
orchids, and now they attend an
exclusive prep. - school. Exquisitely
tailored, laundered, shod, barbered, they
coasted past me on expensive, gleaming
bicycles. Then one spurted on ahead of
his mate, who roared “ ’N’urry, aincha?”
♦Jt ♦♦♦
“Fasdean”: After a fever of tearing-
down relics and buildings of the chain-
gang era, we’ve gone all history-minded,
with historical societies wielding machetes
at the jungle of the past and tracing back
oldest inhabitants, and often themselves,
and getting a few rude shocks in the
process. Newest of these societies is at
Springwood, up on the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.). Macquarie named the place:
he camped there when first-footing the
new road to Bathurst, and boiled the
billy with water from a spring, which
suggested the name. Though the spring
still is, Springwood would have none of
it; this newest infant is the Macquarie
Historical Society.
CIVILIANS
“Two civilians saved a Sydney suburban fire-
station from damage by fire in a shed next-
door, ringing the alarm and driving out a
£5OOO fire-engine before the firemen rushed to
the scene in fire-helmets and pyjamas.”
They were only a pair of civilians,
Two heads, four hands, four feet,
No different from the millions
Of other men-in-the-street;
Humble payers of taxes,
Ground down into the mire,
They had no helmets and axes
When they saw the fire-station afire .
But they said, "It is prejudicial
To standards of commonsense !
No self-respecting official
Could imagine this course of events —
Let firemen be strong as oxes,
Themselves they cannot save,
And dealing with paradoxes
Is not a task for the brave!’’
So they drove out the big fire-engine
To save it from smoke and harm
In less time than it takes to mengine,
And sounded the loud alarm,
'And the firemen ran up shouting
When they heard the alarm-bell ring;
And the hoses started spouting,
And the firemen began to sing:
"They’re only civilian people,
The kind we practise on
Or rescue from window or steeple —
We handle them by the ton ;
But we wouldn’t grudge them their glory
Or mind about their renown
If we weren’t a part of the story —
For well never live it down!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T>ORN in sight of, but 15 miles from,
the ocean, Eight-year-old has never
seen a beach. As he explained: “We
haven’t got money for fares. We haven’t
got much money at all. But we’re all
going down next week when we get our
new car.”—“Apemantus.”
❖ ❖ *
“Circle”: I was swaying round Lon-
don’s Inner Circle tube-run on my belated
way home to my digs, when somewhere
between stations there was an almighty
screech and shuddering and we pulled up
dead, Sitting next to the guard’s com-
partment I heard him flick on the two-
way communication-set with the driver’s
cabin, producing a splutter of metallic
cursing. With a smirk he bent down to
the speaker and said, “Wot, y’ fall orf
the seat?”
❖ ♦♦♦ -
“Sister Ellell”: I share “Orang
Puteh’s” opinion (B. 25/1/’56) that lots
of people are afraid of flying. I made
many trips on service-kites during the
war; silting on the floor, propped-up
by kitbags, slipping this way and that.
One neighbor was a much-decorated
pilot. He seemed unconcerned at the
plane’s antics, and after I’d clutched him
for the umpteenth time, he said, “I think
you’re frightened?” I admitted I was
terrified. So he said, “Don’t you worry,
she’s on the beam. I’ll tell you what
I’ll do, I’ll hold your hand,” suiting the
action to the word I relaxed. Indeed,
that was the best trip I ever had!
❖ ❖ *X*
Latterly the Speck has been
spectacularly newsworthy, maybe because
of the large attendance of holiday-
makers from points north. In one day
alone two tragedies and a miracle that
was worth £250,000 to the favored ones
were responsible for some 10,000 words
and 33 picturegrams passing through
Hobart G.P.O. Follow-up stories on
these events, several hundred stranded
whales, and a big road-smash pro-
vided more to write home about, even
though some of it wasn’t, perhaps, the
es t advertising.
+ » 4
“Chevroford”: The t.b. tests of the
Qantas Empire Airways staff who have
b een transporting monkeys from India
to the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories for the manufacture of Salk
vaccine were not to protect the men
from the monkeys, but the monkeys from
the men. Monkeys are very sensitive to
t.b., and several were suspected of having
picked it up from human beings.
*** *** ***
“Dorian”: Seems a pity that someone
can’t find a way of constructing a pipe-
organ more cheaply ; rebuilding a Sydney
or g an set ’em back £45,000. I’ve noticed
that when one applies one’s breath
forcibly to the neck of a soft-drink bottle
the resultant noise has a diapasonal
quality. Cost of an organ using bottles
instead of pipes would be relatively small.
And it wou ld certainly conduce to
thought during sermons to gaze upon
a showcase of dead-marines!
❖ ❖ ❖
„ . „ _ . , ~, ~ T ~,
. von : a * Methven (N.Z.)
> n *e pre-Christmas rush, a letter for
local delivery got tangled in an open
envelope and finished-up in London. The
G.P.0.-makes hay of the incident by
boasting it will have covered 26,000 miles
for threepence—like the motorist who
claimed he had given his victim an early
trip to Heaven,
* *
, * v
“ Lord Luvus ” ; Case-history, as over-
heard; can > t relax with people because
j bad a mother who was afraid to kiss me
up to the age of six for fear of germs and
afterwards was afraid to kiss me for fear
of the CEdipus-complex.”
* *
.. Derwenr . Tasnl ania has a few hotel-
to be contributed t 0 , he suggestion
, h h Continental idea of naming
; after saints be iven a gO . St .
M , and st Beta,* are both familiar
to tourists, as well as St. Leonard's,
S( Leonar( j Uved in France at the , time o£
the Visigoths, and is the patron saint
of Limoges ; he is also the patron saint of
prisoners, hence has broken fetters
or chain-with-lock as his symbol—but
possibly this might be misinterpreted on
a signboard in a place where convicts
were not unknown. A private hotel in
Hobart has the name of St. Alban—he
ranks as the first British saint—and there
is also a St. Ives guest-house in the same
city. An old Hobart inn of the ’thirties
of last century was the Angel, in Argyle-
street, which made colorful contribu-
tions to the history of that period.
“Pip Tok”: Aboriginal tenor Harold
Blair’s switch from singing to acting is
not unique. A similar change was made
years ago by old-time Sydney heavy-
weight Peter Felix. Met him in Belfield’s
soon after my return from the Kaiser’s
war, and he told me that since his retire-
ment from the ring he had started a
gymnasium—really a nursery for fledg-
ling fighters. Back in Sydney again after
two years’ absence in Brisbane, I met
Peter and asked how was the gymnasium.
“I’m temporarily out of the game,” he
said. “I’m an actorrr now.” So he
was—the Nubian wrestler in Oscar
Asche’s production of “Cairo.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: Over 50 years ago my
father’s first Bulletin par. was published
over the pen-name “Wusslean,” a cor-
ruption of Wesleyan, by which name my
Methodist forebears were then known.
Twenty-one years ago my first Bulletin
piece appeared over the same pen-name
(my father was killed in action in France
in 1916). In the issue of 25/1/’55 my
elder son, Peter, aged 15, had his first
contribution printed in the “OF.Mt”
But he won’t take over the “Wusslean”
trademark for many a long day—l hope.
❖ »*♦ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: I had always suspected
that emergency-cords in trains wouldn’t
work. They do, emphatically. My 10-
year-old “pulled chain” in mistake for
the more prosaic kind in a lavatory on
the Armidale - Sydney express near
Hornsby, and the train stopped with con-
vincing promptitude. Explanations plus
name and address were accepted by the
conductor pro tem, and I’m praying
that my hopeful’s pride in having stopped
an express with one hand doesn’t
ultimately cost me a tenner.
❖ ❖ *>
“Stanford”: “W.P.T.” (B. 18/l/’56)
is a bit astray when he cites cuff-links as
a bygone fashion. A U.S. magnate
whose speciality is men’s jewellery fore-
casts that the enormous sales of match-
ing “sets” —cuff-links, tie-bars and belt
buckles —over last year in the States will
be echoed during 1956 in Australia,
where they are now being tumed-out.
Latest idea is to produce cuff-links that
clamp together by magnetism. And, as
usual, sell them by hypnotism.
❖ ❖
“Lofty”: There are times when human
speech sadly fails in comparison with
animal noises. A mixed crowd were
asked their opinions of the artist who
had provided the star act at a theatre.
“He’s te-e-errific! ” the modern miss
exalted, her eyes narrowing with the
intensity of it. “I could do as good,”
another dismissed him. “He’s not bad,”
nodded the young sage, one year out of
college. “He’s wonderful,” was the soft
answer of the plump married lady. “It’s
a fake,” “It was all right,” others
replied. But the most expressive com-
ment by far was by a quiet chap in
sports-coat. He stood quickly to his
feet, took a deep breath, then let
go a short loud blurt, more expressive of
his point-of-view than if he had talked
all night.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rexine”: One of the best money-
spinners in Charlie’s cafe was the juke-
box, and among the records the most
profitable of all was the fatuous “Bimbo.”
Everyone who came in played it at least
once, and the ditty was seldom “off the
air.” Charlie endured the torture for
some weeks, but one morning as
“Bimbo” ended after the fifteenth play-
ing, he snatched up the record, carried it
outside to the gutter, laid it down and
jumped on it until it was ground into
small pieces. Then, without a word or
a glance about him, he returned to his
kitchen. For all men kill the thing they
love.
“Lorna Doone”: Outback twins who
have just been to Adelaide for their
holidays had their first experience of the
flickers when they went to the “drive-in,”
followed soon by another. The girl
asked her mother, “Couldn’t we go to
the pictures in a house?” This was
granted, and she was heard retailing to
her twin: “That’s three times we’ve been
now; two drive-ins and one sit-down.”
♦♦♦ ♦++
“Doric”: I was playing Mendelssohn’s
“Songs Without Words” and my wife was
listening on the front-veranda. “What’s
the name of that piece?” she called.
“Pastorale,” I told her. “Well, you
must play realistically,” she commented,
“because a cow just walked up the street
—it stopped and listened and went on
as soon as you finished.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Phillida”: The blind girl I saw in a
large store was led to the ribbon-counter
by an elderly woman, and the sales-girl
was asked for several shades of blue
ribbon. The blind girl picked up each
roll of ribbon handed to her, put them
to her nose and smelt them. When she
came to a very dark blue she said, “I’ll
have this color, please.” The sales-girl
eyed the woman questioningly as she
wrapped the ribbon, but the escort made
no remark and seemed to take the affair
as a matter of course.
++♦ +++ +j<-
“Mullum”: Anyone remember the
sergeant who told us recruits that we
were “worse than useless ; in fact, minus
quantities”? I suspect he’s now in
public-relations. My daily paper informs
me that “Applications [for enlistment]
numbering 115 have been submitted, and
of these 266 have been lodged in New
South Wales.”
TTHE answer to a query here about the
number of hat-tricks in six wickets
with six successive balls is twenty (20).
Anyone can work this out by the method
of Pascal’s Triangle or the formula
n - -, where nis the number used, 6,
!/n-r/r
and r is the number sought, thus,
factorial 6, which is all the numbers
from 1 to 6 multiplied together divided
by the bottom line; and this comes to
720/6.6 where the dot between the sixes
means multiplication. 720/36 is 20. A
simpler method is to use “Binomial
Coefficients”: the formula used by “Turf-
accountants” in their work, thus: take
the number of horses in a race (it is the
same problem as the wicket puzzle), in
this case 6, and the number sought, 3
6.5.4
(hat-tricks). This is the way, - - -,
1 2 3
the top line equals 120, the bottom line
6. The formula extended is 6, 15, 20,
where the first number denotes six things
taken one at a time, the second number
six things taken two at a time, and the
third number six things taken three at a
time. This is the problem put to Pascal
by the Chevalier de Merc in the 17th-
century to help him in his gambling. It
is spoken-of as “the law of averages”
by the punter, but the bookie knows
better. Of six horses in a race there are
720 ways in which they can finish; and
if seven horses the number goes to 5040,
barring some falls. What price the
punter?—“Radula,”
THE CHAMPION
/ have suffered from the chap
Who, in train or tram or bus,
In a booming voice will yap
That he’d met my Uncle Gus,
Who was sozzled. Then he airs
All his personal affairs —
Throughout the long, long journey
he’ll be chinning
Of Mum’s gallstones, or of Fred’s
Accident. I note the heads
All turned our way, and everybody
grinning.
There are other pests of note:
He who greets you with a thump.
Or (this really gets your goat )
Gives your mitt a long, slow pump.
But I fancy that the one
That I have most in the gun
Is the guest who, when the cocks are
damn’ near crowing,
Will so heartily declare,
Without rising from his chair,
“You know, l s’ pose I really should be
going!”
If the idiot had watched,
Clockward looks he would have seen;
And the yawns that I had scotched
With such trouble in between.
Bed, for him, holds no allure.
How much longer to endure?
My own bone-weary state I must be
showing;
But he just sits on and on,
Bleating ever and anon :
“Oh, well, I s’pose it’s time that I was
going!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Melbn”: When Melbourne conduc-
tresses pleaded to be allowed to become
drivers doubts were expressed whether
women had the nerve. Next day pas-
sengers screamed as a tram, which had
hit a semi-trailer, its driver flung on to
the roadway, speeded towards death and
destruction. Conductress Elizabeth
Cotter, young and pretty, raced to the
back driver’s-compartment, found that
the brake wouldn’t work, then jumped
out on to the rear bumper-bar and jerked
the pole free.
• •
Although the man-in-the-street doesn’t
hear much about it, C.S.LR.O.’s Divi-
sion of Fisheries, with headquarters at
Cronulla, Sydney, has been doing a lot
of work since War II which could con-
tribute mightily to the national fish-
basket. Now the organisation plans to
give increased attention to the physical
examination of the ocean, and to mark
the change in emphasis the name has
been changed to Division of Fisheries
and Oceanography. Dr. G. F. Hum-
phrey, hitherto isenior lecturer in
Biochemistry at Sydney University,
takes-over from Dr. H. Thompson (who
retired last year) as chief of the division.
The bulk of the new man’s published
papers have been on marine-biochemistry,
a field in which he has collaborated with
the Fisheries people. He has researched
at Molteno Institute (University of
Cambridge), at Glasgow and London
Universities, and at the marine-labora-
tories at Plymouth (Eng.) and Roscoff
(France). Recently returned from a
Nuffield Travelling Fellowship trip.
• •
George H. Chessell, f- who becomes
chairman of the W.A. Rural and Indus-
tries Bank, at 47, when R. W. Bosisto
retires in March, has been manager of
the Perth office since 19457* a commis-
sioner since 1953 ; he learnt to balance
ledgers with the National, and was one
of the first four students to get W.A.
University’s Diploma of Commerce. A
battery-commander with the Armored
Division in War 11, Chessell finished-up
in Morotai and Borneo with the Seventh
Divvy.
• •
The lawns and corridors of Wesley
College, up at Sydney University, were
black with clergymen when a couple of
Bulletin men went there to sketch and
interview Dr. Franklin Clark Fry, of
the World Council of Churches. Cups
of tea, the purple gleam of a bishop’s
stock here and there, groups of figures—
something between the crowd at an
important game of Rugby Union at the
near-by University Oval and an outsize
tea-party, with such colorful visitors as
Lazarus Lamis Lami, aboriginal delegate
from Arnhem Land, to add variety.
Dr. Fry is a tall, narrow-shouldered
man with a high forehead and a quick
CHURCHMAN
flow of conversation, contrasting with
physical repose. He sat with hands com-
pletely still, rattling off details of the
work done by the World Council of
Churches for the relief of human dis-
tress.
President of the United Lutheran
Church in America (U.S.A. and Canada),
is attending the conferences in Aus-
tralia in his capacity of chairman of the
Executive Council. When his academic
qualifications were mentioned (D.D.,
Litt.D., L.H.D., LL.D., S.T.D.) he begged
that the “alphabetical list” be passed
over; pointing out, however, that the
Doctor of Laws degree was “not uncom-
mon” in the United States. He described
himself as a “frustrated intellectual” and,
again, as a “sort of ecclesiastical
engineer.”
The current meeting of the executive
he describes as “housekeeping— not very
spectacular, from a newspaper point of
view, but very necessary.” Matters of
policy will be determined later in the
year, when the Central Committee meets
in Europe.
“J.D.W.”: Succeeding Keith A.
£ a 7? ner f Who late *y Passed-on, Clarence
L. Meachen becomes New Zealand secre-
ffiry of the Venerable Order of St. John,
lo take-on the job he relinquished, after
24 years, secretaryship of the Wellington
centre of the St. John Ambulance Asso-
ciation. A Commander of the Order of
St. John, a J.P., and a Fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Secretaries, he
founded the Wellington blood-transfusion
service 28 years ago. He’s also secretary
of the N.Z. Crippled Children Society and
of the J. R. McKenzie Trust Board.
• •
“Jock”: Tom Clarke, of Carrington
(Newcastle), rising 80, claims he is the
oldest barber in N.S.W. He opened his
shop in 1903. Tom recalls the day when
a 24-stoner got stuck in the chair ; three
men finally got him free. Half-a-cen-
tury ago shaves were 3d. and haircuts
6d. In the early days Tom worked five
nights a week until nine-o’clock, and
tp 11-o’clock on Saturdays. Sometimes
on Sundays he put the clippers over
customers who couldn’t make it on week-
days.
• •
Retired after 46 years on the
job, William Walker, hon. secretary of
the choir at St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Church at Chatswood (Sydney)—believed
to be a record for the Kirk in Aus-
tralia. Fie went to school with the
Lauder boys—Sir Harry, Matt and Jock
—at Hamilton (Scotland).
• •
Old Digger Frank Edmondson will
give away chairing W.A.’s Electricity
Commission in March, when he turns
61. In the electrical-engineering game
since 1914, he’s been president and vice-
president of the Electrical Supply Asso-
ciation of Australia, chair-
man of the Perth division
of the Institute of Engineers,
president of Perth Legacy
and president of the Royal
Automobile Club of W.A.;
he’s also a Rotarian. Dur-
ing the Hitler disturbance
he was chairman of the
Westralian Essential
Services Committee. About
five years ago he went
abroad to get the score on
gasification of coal of the
type produced at Collie, and
last year he was sent by the
State Government on a
three - month fact - finding
tour of the U.K., Europe
and the U.S., looking into
the development and use of
atomic energy for genera-
tion and transmission of
power.
• •
Richard Francis Hockey,
B.H.P. general superinten-
dant of mines and quarries
and g.-m. of Wellington
Alluvials, Ltd., has called
it a day, after 54 years in
the steel-industry. A native
of Port Pirie (S.A.) he
joined Port Pirie Smelters
(then controlled by 8.H.P.)
in 1910, after he had started
metallurgy and mining
courses at S.A. School of
Mines and Adelaide Uni-
versity. A couple of
scholarships helped him on his way.
Since then he has held a succession of
responsible jobs, the listing of which
would be very like telling the story of
the development of B.H.P.’s steel-enter-
prise. In 1950 he was awarded the
bronze medal of the Australasian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy “In recogni-
tion of his long and outstanding service
in the development of the raw-material
requirements of the steel-industry, of his
contributions to metalliferous mining,
and of his splendid work in the training
of young men for Australian industry.”
• •
Founded 100 years ago, Fremantle
Boys’ School ceases to function as such
and the old building and grounds become
an annexe to the recently established
John Curtin High School. The last head-
master of Fremantle Boys’, Edwin Huck
(awaiting a new posting) is a product of
the Westralian Education Department,
one of the youngest of Westralian Old
Diggers. He was still a teenager when
wounded with the 28th Battalion in
France.
• •
Seen at Port Melbourne —gumtree-logs
being unloaded! These (at first glance)
coals for Newcastle came from Israel,
to be turned into pulp at the huge Mary
Vale papermill. But the pulp will go
back to Jerusalem, to be made into paper.
Dr. M. Lewin, director of forest-produc-
tion research in the Holy Land, is the
man behind the project. The logs come
from seedlings given to Israel to foster
its afforestation-programme, and he is
in Melbourne to supervise the pulping.
Alan McCallum, who has taken over as
Adelaide Fire Brigade chief from another
Scot (old Black Watch man Jock
Whyte), joined the State’s fire-quenching
industry at Port Pirie some 40 years back,
as a horse-driver. At that time firemen
at Port Pirie were ex-sailors ; the theory
was that matelots weren’t worried by
heights: they were inclined to look down
FIREMAN
on the earthlings who looked after the
horses. After War I (he was an original
with the 9th Light Horse) Mac was trans-
ferred to Adelaide because they were
short of drivers, and he drove the last
horse-fire-engine to leave the Adelaide
station business-bent —a false alarm!
One time and another he has served in
every fire-station in South Australia.
• •
H. L. Mencken, dead in the U.S. at
75, had more gusto than any other
modern satirist; he treasured the slang
he disparaged in The American Language
as he loved the bocbery and Babbitry he
condemned in his magazine “The
American Mercury.”
Dreiser’s friend; discoverer, with
George Jean Nathan, of Sinclair Lewis,
he is the reason why so much may be said
in American writing, and why so many
censorious attitudes may no longer be
taken there without ridicule; while the
cultural self - sufficiency of today’s
America may be traced to his impatience
of subservience to overseas standards.
Born to a tobacconist family of Ger-
man origin, he,was a journalist all his
life ; his long career with the Baltimore
“Sun” being interrupted for a while
during World War I because of his strong
pro-Germanism. His “Mercury,” which
jazzed the higher culture of the jazz-age,
died with the depression ; his surprising
marriage (for until late in life his relaxa-
tions were beer-drinking, playing piano-
parts in chamber-music with a group of
friends and disparaging women) ended
after a year or so wkh the death of his
wife; and he faded into unpublicised
unpopularity from which he returned to
charm readers of the “New Yorker” with
reminiscences of his childhood and
youth.
Some unusual kind of stroke in the
late ’forties left him, the American master
of words, unable to write. No doubt the
Bible-bangers and removalists he lashed
with such ribaldry considered it “a
jedgment ahn ’im.”
• •
Into the Silence: — s
At 79, in Melbourne, Thorold Waters, singer,
music-editor, -adjudicator and -critic. Born in
England, he began as a journalist and then
became a singer, being tenor-soloist at the
Royal Albert Hall, in opera at the Old Vic,
and with the company founded by Sir Thomas
Beecham. After serving in World War I he
came to Melbourne and got back into journal-
ism. He was critic for the “Sun,” editor of the
“Australian Musical News,” and judged musical
competitions all over Australia.
At 75, in Wellington (N.Z.), Alf Ballard,
publisher for Gordon and Gotch for many
years. He was popular with the trade from
Bluff to Kaitaia, and, though he hailed from
Australia, he knew more about the old
characters of Wellington than most people. He
also had a fount of yarns about the vaude-
villians of the old Fuller days.
In Sydney, at 61, Sydney Trumper, brother
of Victor. Syd was no Victor Trumper, but
was a useful grade-batsman with Gordon when
it had such stars as Macartney, Oldfield, Taylor
and Kelleway. After he retired he became
chairman of Gordon’s management-committee,
and still held the post at the end. Managed
tHe N.S.W. Sheffield team on several inter-
state trips, and had nominated to go as
assistant-manager of this year’s Australian team
to England.
By request, Australian author and
bushman Henry G. Lamond summarises
his career:
Bom 30/6/’B5 at Carl Creek, Native
Mounted Police Camp, on Gregory River,
North Queensland. On mother’s side,
fifth edition printed in Australia. She
was a Shadworth, an old Gulf pioneering
family. Shadworths are still there, in
what might now be the seventh edition.
Father, James Lamond (imp.), was then
a sub-inspector in the N.M.P.
After being born, nothing much
happened, apart from attending schools
BUSHMAN
all over Queensland, from which writer
doesn’t claim to have learnt a thing.
Started work on Maneroo (Central
Queensland), 6/2/’O2. Pastoral ex-
perience includes everything from
cowboy-butcher to manager, covers all
classes of stock over almost all of the
State.
Married, during 1910, Eileen, daughter
of W. McMillan, one-time owner of
Maneroo. Three children. Three
children went overseas during War II;
two came back. One son shot down over
Sumatra.
In 1921, when managing a large
cattle-station on the Georgina (Western
Queensland), decided to buy a banana-
plantation on the Tweed. Went broke
quick and lively, and went back to
station - management. In ’27 bought
Molle Islands, off N.Q. coast. Stayed
there 10 years exactly. Didn’t cater for
tourists—didn’t fancy that sort of thing.
Swapped islands for a dairyfarm in
Brisbane suburbs. When sons enlisted
sold farm. Been writing ever since.
Books published in Australia, England,
America, France and Germany. Some
did well. Some were flops.
Still writing. Still collects an
occasional rejection-slip. Still finds life
full of interest.


parr's of
StoWfr TUE flflttf i 7
%• &y's still in
<SjdP fWAff. 7
Vz yoJ f
HE AGREED WITH THE REF.


ABORIGINALITIES
TCfHEN we casually told Choom the
tool he had asked for was “in the
humpy” he looked bewildered. “You
know where it is, don’t you?” I asked,
pointing. “Oh,” he smiled with enlighten-
ment ; “in the hoot,” pronounced as
in “soot.” Pondering on whether
“humpy” was a word used in Australia
only or whether he’d merely been unable
to understand our way of pronouncing
it, I wrote it. He had never heard of
the word. At home I got out the diction-
aries. No mention —not even in the
“Australian Slang” section. It was by
accident I came across, in Names of Aus-
tralian Towns: “Humpyßong: Abori-
gine, meaning ‘dead house.’ ” Ap-
parently our forefathers pirated the word
from black brother. —“Sackville.”
* * * #
“Four Threes”: At the roadside
station the loco.-inspector boarded the
engine, and inquired, “What’s the dog
doing on the footplate?” Old Crusty
replied impassively, “He’s my dorg.
He’s crook, an’ I’m takin’ ’im to th’ vet.”
“Well, you’ll have to put the dog off.
It’s against regulations to carry it on the
engine,” the inspector ordered. Crusty
picked up his dog. “If me dorg gets orf,
/ get orf too.” “That’s all right. The
“Mind if I pick up any other fares on the Way, Dig ?”
train will still go. I’ll drive it myself,”
the inspector countered officiously.
Then Bricky hoisted his kitbag: “If me
mate an’ ’is dorg gets orf, so do I.” The
inspector knew he was beaten, but had
to save face on the deal. When the
train moved off Crusty was driving, the
inspector fired and Bricky nursed the dog
in the guard’s-van.
* * - * #
_ t
Vidi : Caught a Ism. snake With the
kitchen tongs (it bit them repeatedly)
and dropped it into a screw-top jar.
Took the snake to the office, where, with
great courage, I extracted it from the jar
with the aid of two rulers (it bit them
savagely) and, with a grip on its neck
that should have choked it, proudly dis-
played it to the cringing office-staff.
From there to the museum, where an
eager expert tumbled it out of the jar
on to his hand. “Ah, nice little fellow,”
"If you spoke to him in English, Scottie, he might understand you.”
he said with real affection. “Black-
bellied swamp-snake, slightly veriomous,
make a child sick and give an adult a
very sore and swollen finger.” The
reptile continued to twist and twine
happily about his fingers. “Why doesn’t
it bite you?” I asked, annoyed that it
didn’t, after all the precautions I had
taken. He looked hurt. “I’m not
squeezing it,” he said.
* * * #
“Woorarra”: What bird, if any, is at
home in all three elements? Aquatic
fowl are often good fliers, and
sometimes excellent walkers, but
never both. Perhaps the most pro-
ficient all-rounder is the purple-gallinule
(swamp-hen). It belongs to the rail-
family—coots, rails and gallinules—and
few of the clan have command in the
air. A good swimmer and graceful
walker, the swamp-hen—unlike its
relatives —is never reluctant to take
flight if disturbed. It never flies far with-
out landing, but this is typical of many
swamp-fowl whose wing-power is
unquestioned—the snipe, for instance.
Another all-rounder worthy of considera-
tion is that cantankerous scavenger of
our seashores, the silver-gull.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: She’s now a firm advocate of
enclosed front-gardens, as against the
modern tendency for unfenced ones,
Her Great Dane, a real “one man” dog,
had to be forcibly restrained from follow-
ing her every time she went out, but
the trouble was to get a chain strong
enough to hold him. She thought the
problem was solved when she anchored
him to the front-steps with a trace-chain,
On her return some hours later she found
R crowd in the middle of the road. They
were gazing at her Great Dane still
attached to the steps which he had
dragged there.
“Augustus”: Investigating a noise
under the house, I disturbed a rat having
a meal on a ledge. Inspection revealed
a pile of empty snail-shells. My friend
the enemy had not pulled his victims
through their only doorway, but dis-
played true tactical skill by attacking
them from the rear. A perfect circular
window was cut in the rear of each
shell. I counted over 200 vacant homes,
each showing the work of the craftsman,
* * * *
“Torwood”: Looking through a copy
of the “Illustrated Australian News” of
December 20, 1867, I noted this part of
a report of the National Agricultural
Show:
Mr. Hugh Lennon has exhibits in all
plough-classes, and some of them contain
more novelty than would readily be
credited.
His plough, with shifting sole-plate and
self-adjusting bridle, is an excellent imple-
ment and his double-wheel plough with
telegraph-wheel must be an admirable
invention for bad ploughmen.
Can any old-timer throw any light on
what this is all about?
9 9 * *
“Lofty”: George and I had landed a
job bag-sewing for a cocky on the
Darling Downs (Q.). The thresher was
working a couple of miles from the house,
and the first day a hawker arrived with
an assortment of brushes for sale. The
boss bought several, but of course had
no money with him. George produced
a stub of pencil, but none of us, includ-
ing the brush-vendor, had any paper to
send a note to the missus to pay for the
purchases. It looked like a stalemate
until George triumphantly produced a
hardboiled egg from the tucker-box.
Armed with this, bearing the boss’s
terse directive, “Give Brushy ten-bob,”
the hawker had no trouble extracting
settlement from the missus.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Sicus (Six) was a short,
sturdy and almost jet-black South Sea
Islander; his bullock-team
included a poler that looked
like a Texas longhorn, an
ancient Dexter Kerry bull
as near-side leader, and no
two of the rest alike in
shape, size or color. As he
worked them around and
between obstructions in the
sugarmill yard he called
them by pidgin equivalents
of the usual names as he
chanted: “Come ’ere ; wae ;
gee off; wae; come ’ere,
gee back; wae; gee off,
whoa back ; wae.” In reply
to inquiries he patiently
explained that “Come ’ere”
meant bear to the left, or
near, side ; “Gee off” meant
bear to the right, or off,
side; “Gee back” counter-
manded “Come ’ere,” and
“Whoa back” counter-
manded “Gee off.” “Wae”
meant “steady as she goes,”
straight ahead. I’ve not
heard a bullocky in full-cry for many
years, and the last one I saw at work,
Old Tom Telford, in S.A.’s south-east,
didn’t speak to his teaiti at all; he just
walked ahead of them, signalling his
orders with his whip-handle. But horse-
drivers, in their turn, made a lot of
changes in the old terms, with “Gee
up” meaning to go ahead, and “Whoa
back,” go into reverse. Sicus’s bullocks
would no more have understood them
than would the Tongan horse —“he very
nice, kind horsie, but he not speaking
Englis.’ ”
“Theo”: They had visitors at the farm,
and were entertaining them in the cool
of the back-veranda. The two young
farm hopefuls had been at a neighbor’s
place and had heard the local parson
explaining the operation of water-divin-
ing, at which he claimed some success,
One of the boys, procuring a green twig,
said: “I’ll show you how the parson
finds water. You hold the stick like
this .. .” Mimicking the parson’s manner,
he marched across the yard, but suddenly
found that the stick was out of adjust-
ment. Bringing it back, he again began
his patter and march, but found the
stick was wrong again. He stopped, and
walked bewildered back to the group
on the veranda. Mum’s comment:
“Serves you right for mocking the
parson.” Brother: “Let’s see if it will
work for me.” It wouldn’t. An earth-
auger, used for trying for drift-water,
found water at shallow depth which rose
nearly to the top of the hole.
* * * *
“Spadger”: Our old maiden ewe,
poddied over 11 years ago, doesn’t con-
sider herself a sheep at all —hence
probably, the retention of her maiden
status. She lives with the fowls, and,
knowing all signs and portents of a
muster, retires to the hen-house when
the sheep are coming in. Last week she
was caught unawares by strangers com-
ing by with a (to her) unheralded mob.
As soon as she discovered her peril she
made straight for the fowlyard gate,
followed by the entire 300 hoggets. The
resultant turmoil has probably taken a
dozen years off her expectancy of life.
* * * *
“Cass”: Driving along between Long-
reach and Winton (Q.) I saw a faint
haze in the distance and a number of
black dots on the edge of the road. A
few hundred yards from them recogni-
tion came —half-a-dozen emus enjoying
a dust-bath. So reluctant were they to
break it up they waited till I was almost
up to them before they took to their
scrapers. After a flush-season the grass
was high enough to hide their bodies as
they sped through it, only their heads
and necks, like periscopes, marking their
progress.
* * *
“Canosser”: In the record flood of
’93, cattle trapped on low ground swam
to high ground for survival. Horses,
unless led to safety behind boats, circled,
became exhausted, and perished. - As
another of my recollections: In ’9B ; on
a sou’-west Queensland station, there
were two waterholes miles apart. Some
horses and cattle watered on one water-
hole, which dried-up. The horses died
at the dried-up hole; the cattle shifted
to the other hole and survived.
*** . *
A FTER the pageant of the wattles, the
grevilleas and hakeas of s.-w.
Queensland take pride of place for spec-
tacular blooms. A mature 20ft. Hakea
lorea in full bridal-array in spring is a
breath-catching sight; its creamy whorls
form a crown out of which the cat-o-
nine-tail leaves fall like green rain. In
the 1950 spring a sandstone ridge was
thought to be afire; it was merely the
glorious spikes of Grevillea longistyw
showing off their beauty. The beefwood,
another grevillea, waits until the Decem-
ber heat to bedeck its upper branches
with its beautiful creamy spikes; the
angopheras, one of the tea-trees, the
silverleafed iron bark and the coolibah
all bloom for the Nativity period id
s.-w. Queensland. —“Yeeman.”
MY SISTER’S CHILD
(Born at Windsor, N.S.W.)
Weave garlands of flowers and henna your
hands:
Put on the red sari old custom demands:
Sing praises to Allah. Beat loud on the drum —
The favored, the first-born, Farida has come.
Like the stirring of spring in the Kurrajong
hills;
Like the night-given promise the dawn glow
fulfils;
Like the first tender flush on the dusky pink
plum—
The longed-for, the loved-one, Farida has come.
Oh, hard was the waiting and long was the
night,
And weary our heads in the grey morning
light;
Then the sun beamed a blessing, these words
in each ear,
“Come quickly! Come quickly! Farida is
here.”
And day fell around us, the skies blazed above,
To welcome with radiance our small, sleepy
dove.
We stood round her cradle, all smiling and
dumb,
And heard the winds whisper, “Farida has
come.”
Move silently, wheels, on the old Windsor road
Grinding along with your hot heavy load;
Bees, spin a sleep-song in drowsy sweet hum;
Time, pause a moment, Farida has come!
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.


HARRY, the native stockman, was
breaking-in horses on Willeroo
station in the Northern Territory, and
one was proving difficult to handle.
Harry worked on him for a couple of
days, handling him very quietly, before
putting a saddle on him. Fle’d no sooner
mounted him than the horse threw him
against the stockyard-rails. Harry was
a trier; he mounted again and the same
thing happened. After about six more
tossings he decided to call it a day.
Next morning the manager asked if he
intended riding the outlaw again. “No
more,” said Harry. “That horse can’t
stop longa me.”—“Trooper X.”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: A Swiss-migrant jack-
eroo on a sheep-station near Nhill (Vic.)
has hit on a new industry: lizard-breed-
ing. Blue-tongues, geckos and other
varieties thrive and multiply in his care,
to be exported by air to Europe as pets
and zoo-specimens. He clears about £3
on each reptile, the price carrying a 30-
days replacement-guarantee. Treatment
at the lizard-stud is on luxury lines,
including a diet of special beetles bred on
the spot for the more fastidious.
.* * * *
“Emel”: Two special home-comforts
for guests are provided in the out-of-
the-way Whim Creek Hotel, one of the
few survivals of the coppermine that
once flourished on the road to Port
Hedland (W.A.). Beneath the dart-
board in the bar hang a fly-swatter and
a snake-killer, and both get a lot of use.
.* * * *
“Stromlo”: Years of effort to trace
surviving members of the family of
Capt. John Willis, “Old White Hat,” for
whom the Cutty Sark was built on Clyde-
side in the 1860’s, succeeded by chance
when Australian - sailor-author Alan
Villiers, who is a governor of the Cutty
Sark Society, met a Mr. Sydney Apple-
ton in Montreal. Appleton, son of a
Trinity pilot who
lived in Deal, re-
called that as a boy
he used to play with
a nephew of Cap-
tain Willis. This
nephew’s widow,
Mrs. Kirk a 1 d y
Willis, was found
living near Deal, and
her son William, now
resident in Kenya,
thereupon offered
many prized records
of the clipper to the
society. They’re now
on view in the
National Maritime
Museum in Green-
wich. There would
be a lot of Aus-
tralians interested if
Villiers were to
borrow them for
exhibition here.
* *
“Sebak”: Though
I’d never skinned a
fox before, I made
a fair job of saving
the lips, whiskers,
ears, even the pads
and claws. But the
tail! As a boy I
saw one skinned; a
stick came into the
process somewhere
—or was it two?—
and the brush wasn’t
slit. Was it wound
around the stick in the peeling-off pro-
cess, or did two sticks hold the skin
while the tailbone was dragged out like
a snake from a hole? Trying a combina-
tion of both I got about 4in. peeled,
then the tailbone broke off —an old
break, it seemed to me. To get another
start appeared hopeless, so the skin was
pegged-out with the bone still in the
brush. Within three hours the tail had
rotted-off where the bone began, and
the fur could be pulled out of the
brush in handfuls. When the tail was
placed in the shade the fur firmed again,
but a later attempt to dry-out the brush
brought the same -result. So now the
owner of a bobtailed fox-fur wants to
know: how do you skin a fox’s tail?
* * * *
“Spin”: A cyclone which had been
snapping at the W.A. coast between
Broome and Onslow for nearly a week
veered out to sea, and Perth dailies
sighed with relief for the north-west
residents spared a terrible experience.
That’s like congratulating the wheatbelt
on a dry winter. Cyclones can be nasty
customers, but they are a normal and
very important part of life in the north,
particularly in the Kimberleys—they
bring the summer rains on which the
pastoral-industry depends. A year in
which there were no cyclones would be a
bad one for the graziers.
* * <fc *
“Bo”: For some time I have been
aware, through both the appearance in
shop-windows .of emaciated - looking
rodents selling at over four-bob each and
the sporadic whinges of hat-manufac-
turers, that myxomatosis had reduced
our rabbit-population drastically. But
that we had fallen to having to import ’em
from a foreign country to bolster our
meat-supplies seemed to be over the odds.
Yet the legend on the shop-window was
plain enough: Irish Rabbits. Then I
looked a bit closer and saw that it was
the shopkeeper who was the bunny—
some humorist had effected the change
to the Hibernian simply by wiping-out
the horizontal strokes from the F and E
in FRESH.
* * * *
“Metax”: Electricity can now be
generated direct from sunlight. Small
amounts of power are produced when
the sun shines on thin silicon-plates
coated with boron. An outfit of 432-
plates has been connected to charge-
batteries for a country telephone-service
in U.S.A. The cells do not deteriorate
with use and should be as everlasting as
a woman’s conversation.
• . * *
“Sackfair”: I once contemplated be-
coming a horse-collarmaker, an ambition
born of watching one of the fraternity
at work. Seated in a sea of straw, he
would double a number of stalks over
the flattened end of a steel rod, insert it
in the opening left in the stitched-leather
cover of the collar, push the straw in as
far as possible, then pack it tight by
banging the other end of the rod on an
iron block set in the floor. To my
"I suddenly felt, Dad, I just HAD to come back to the old home after
all the years since I ran away to become an engine-driver !”
“I always like to read the first page first to see how it ends”
juvenile mind it was the most fascinating
of jobs in fragrant, comfortable sur-
roundings. Fortunately, I took up
another trade: the collarmaker’s old work-
shop is now a car-ducoing works; and
nothing brings on my hayfever like the
smell of straw.
* * * *
“Nunwad”: Spent my holidays at
Mount Buffalo, National Park, protected
and run by the Victorian Government
Railways. Notices prominently dis-
played everywhere say: “Hunting, fish-
ing, or removing any rocks is gravely
prohibited.” No doubt there are
thousands like myself who pursue the
interesting but harmless hobby of hack-
ing a few tons off a gigantic rock —Buffalo
has thousands of them —putting it in the
boot of the car and taking it home for
friends to admire and envy. Frustrated
in this endeavor, I left the place, never
to return.
* * * *
“Goondi”: “Best bird-talker I ever
struck,” said Joe the dam-sinker, “was
a galah belonging to a neighbor. I went
over one time with a message. Knocked
on the door a few times, and heard a
voice saying, ‘Nobody at home.’ I saw
it was spoken by an old galah sitting on
a stump. I came back late that after-
noon. The missus of the house was home,
and she told me she knew I’d called be-
fore. Asked her how she knew and she
said Mick the galah had told her; he’d
kept repeating, ‘Somebody’s been.’ I
thought this was a bit tall, but she assured
me he’d recognise me. So she went and
brought him from the back of the house,
and, dinkum, as soon as Mick saw me
he nodded his head and said, ‘That’s him!
That’s him! ’ ”
* * * *
“H.G.M.”: As a Victorian,
unacquainted with the N.S.W. Hunter
River valley, I was under the impression
when first I read “Banjo” Paterson’s
verse on an attempted rigging of a
horse-race, in which the owner, harassed
by huge mosquitoes, lifted his hand and
thus gave the jockey the wrong signal,
that the poet had used the township’s
name simply for the convenience of
rhyme:
They breed ’em at Hexham,
It’s risky to vex ’em.
But apparently the Hexham greys still
run true to their reputation, after half-
a-century, for viciousness, voracity and
size. Their sustained attacks on a party
of seven people marooned all night on a
mudbank in the Hunter River made
news in our Melbourne dailies and lifted
a veil for me.
* * * *
AGREE with “Harbel” that many of
our marsupials which subsist partly
on vegetable-matter are not entirely
vegetarian (B, 4/1/’56). Quite a number
are also insect-eaters, and some are
almost entirely carnivorous. I doubt if
there’s any marsupial which wouldn’t
occasionally eat flesh —I’ve seen wallabies
catching and eating fish in sou’-Westralian
estuaries. But kangaroos and some other
marsupials can, and usually do, subsist
on vegetation, and they’re the types that
are flourishing in Australia today. The
carnivorous or semi-carnivorous species
may not all be extinct, but I said they
were “nearly so,” and I’ll stand by that.
“H.” says the “native”-cat is far from
extinct. I can recall when they were so
plentiful you’d get from 80 to 100 living
in the one hollow-tree, and if they took
to living in your ceilings, as they often
did, your house was ruined. But I’d
be battling to find one in sou’-Westralia
now. Over the last few years there’s
been a slight increase in W.A. amongst
some of the rarer marsupials, including
the numbat, the wambenger, and the
dunnart, all of which had been thought
to be practically extinct; but this is
probably only a brief resurgence; in any
case, it’s obvious only to naturalists.
These species are still rare enough to be
in danger of extinction, while kangaroos
and euros have become an almost
insoluble problem to pastoralists. But
my point is that outside of the Aus-
tralian region the only surviving marsu-
pials are carnivorous. There’s no doubt
that where these are found there were
at one time also vegetarian species ; but
in those countries they’ve become extinct.
—“Bass.”
THE END OF ADAMINABY
Soon will the waters rave and roar .
Through tunnelled hill and buttressed diain.
Soon will the snow of winter pour
In melting through an alien lane.
High above Bega still will rear
Brown Mountain’s ferned and icy breast
Nimmitabel still cluster near
The road to Cooma and to rest.
Soon will the water’s wild cascade
Seize in its surge each shrub and tree —
And a great lake will all pervade
Where once lay Adaminaby;
Under the lights such change will bring
The far-off student pore his tome,
Vet may take time from studying
To dream of someone’s sunken home.
Will then the ghosts of Jindabyne
Moan at the moon on starlit nights
And long-dead stockmen ride the line
Of Kosciusko’s satellites?
No. They may brood the snowline track,
But only for a moment’s length.
Then they will greet the artifact
Which brings to life new land and strength.
Along the lake (the agents cry)
Will skiffs for summer tourists ply;
And the high summits, through the mist
Will survey this new catalyst.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which 1* amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LtO.
THOSE engaged in our export trade are looking
more and more to ways and means of improving
quantity and quality as a means of meeting com-
petition on the markets of the world. It is the
nation’s urgent problem.
We, of this Bank, offer our many efficient
services and our traditionally friendly advice to
those engaged in solving the problems of trade,
both here and abroad.
Our officers at Head Office, or at
your nearest branch, will gladly
explain how the Bank’s services "
can help you.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
&
031IWI1 A3NDAS JO ANVdWOO 9NDINV9 IVI3H3WWO3 3HA
TO AVOID "ACUTE ECONOMIC CRISIS"
“SPENDTHRIFT prosperity”
continuing without abate-
ment, eight Australian university
economists on January 31
urged immediate increases in
taxes and interest-rates as the
first necessary measures to guard
against what might “shortly
become an acute economic
crisis.”
{The professors who signed the
statement were H. W. Arndt
(Canberra) ; H. D. Black (Acting
Professor, Sydney); D. Cochrane
(Melbourne); R. I. Downing
(Melbourne); G. G. Firth (Tas-
mania) ; P. H. Kar m e 1
(Adelaide); Wilfred Prest (Mel-
bourne) ; T. W. Swan (Aus-
tralian National University).]
In their analysis of the situ-
ation, the economists claimed
that the internal boom, with its
creeping inflation of expendi-
tures, prices, wages and profits,
has been fed, over the past six
months, by the financing of a
Commonwealth overall cash
deficit of £lO5 million largely by
Treasury-bill finance, and also
a considerable expansion of
Treasury-bill finance to support
the bond-market.
High levels on consumption
and investment have been pos-
sible only because of an almost-
undiminished flow of imports,
with a further heavy loss of over-
seas funds. “Thus the critical
situation of the economy so far
has been masked in monetary
terms by inflationary public
finance, and in real terms by a
rate of imports which cannot
be maintained.”
When the effect 'bf import-cuts
is felt within the next three or
four months, the drop in the
supply of goods available will
ting an increase in inflationary
pressure, unless it is matched by
a similar cut in money demands,
of which there is still no sign.
[The Treasury-bill position, how-
ever; should be reversed by far
heavier tax-collections after
March 31.]
This situation, the economists
think, will, with the restriction of
import-competition, provide an
open invitation to higher profit-
margins in sheltered industries,
higher money-wages, and higher
prices.
In the event of the spiralling of
costs and prices then going for-
ward in real earnest, the econo-
mists contend that “all hope of
easing import-licensing in the
foreseeable future will disappear,
export industries will be
squeezed, and neither potential
speculators nor the Government
will be able to close their eyes
to the possibility of exchange-
depreciation, which in itself
would solve little and quickly
lead to a new round of
inflation.”
Suggested Remedies
The economists then put
forward the following suggested
financial measures:
(1) A substantial increase in
taxation, to drain off ex-
cess i v e purchasing -
power and help pay for
national development.
“With continued efforts to
restrain and even reduce Govern-
ment expenditure, this should
mean an equivalent increase in
the Budget surplus, so reducing
dependence on the loan market
and the Commonwealth Bank to
finance public works.
“Even if £lOO million extra
revenue were raised from taxa-
tion, our tax-burden would still
be lower than in the U.S. and
U.K.
“The increase in taxes should
include higher rates of sales-tax
on a wide range of goods, especi-
ally those with a high import-
content (e.g., motor-vehicles, and
many items in category B for
import-licensing), and higher
excise-duties (e.g., petrol, beer
and spirits).
“Taxation of personal incomes
and company profits should also
be increased.
(2) A rise in interest-rates
i to permit monetary
policy to become effec-
tive.
“Bond-yield and bank-interest
rates are already out of fine
with other rates prevailing in the
capital-market; and the effort
to maintain the present structure
of interest-rates obliges the Cen-
tral Bank through its open-
market operations to frustrate
the reduction in liquidity which
is the object of its banking
policy.
“The bond-market should be
unpegged. Overdraft-rates and
rates on fixed and savings
deposits should be temporarily
increased.
“These measures are unpleas-
ant. But the unpleasantness is
inherent in the economic facts.
“If the Government does not
take the necessary decisions to
conform to those facts, the de-
cisions will be taken for all of
us by a haphazard and inequit-
able process of inflation, which
will be still more unpleasant for
most people.
“It is true that financial meas-
ures cannot directly solve our
industrial-cost problem, nor pro-
vide a realistic and co-ordinated
wages policy.
“But the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court has lost control of
wage-movements not only be-
cause of disparate State legisla-
tion and awards, but also and
more fundamentally because the
pressure of excess demand has
taken charge of the labor
market.
“Until that overriding pres-
sure has been removed —as it can
be by a wise financial policy —
it is useless to talk about a
wages policy at all.
“Cost-inflation is an unavoid-
able by-product of demand-infla-
tion.
“We urge immediate increases
in taxes and interest-rates simply
at first necessary measures to
guard against what might shortly
become an acute economic crisis.
“Looking further ahead, other
major elements of policy are of
vital importance.
“For instance, the long-run
pace of population-growth and
of the industrial expansion that
goes with it will be decisive in
determining the size of private
and public investment pro-
grammes and therefore the level
of national saving required to
finance development.
“If as a people we are not
prepared to put enough savings
aside, then either our Govern-
ments must do the saving for
us (through Budget surpluses),
or else large-scale migration and
development must be abandoned
as national objectives.”
“The Bulletin’s” Comments
In considering the suggested
measures.of the economic octet,
who in a combined piece are
forced to play the same tune,
The Bulletin offers the follow-
ing comments.
The situation ahead of Aus-
tralia is, economically speaking,
very serious. If the working
population of the country can’t
be persuaded of its seriousness,
it will become grave.
The fundamental problem is,
as has been stressed x in these
pages for years, inadequate pro-
ductivity, which has been accom-
panied by inflated consumer-
demand and insufficient saving.
Because of all three factors,
capital works, both public and
private, have been inadequate,
exports have not matched im-
ports, and costs have been
inhibitive.
Nowhere in their suggestions
do the economists mention the
word “productivity.” Perhaps
that is because they have read
about it too often in these pages.
More likely it is because it is a
blunt word, with a very plain
political significance. But in
saying their piece, the octet men-
tion the other side of the low-
productivity coin industrial
costs. So, clearly, they are quite
aware of what’s what.
“The pressure of excess
demand,” which “has taken
charge of the labor market,” is
put forward as the underlying
reason for the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court having lost
control of wage-movements. But
inadequate production and
excess demand are creatures of
the same circumstances, and the
obvious way to remove the
adjectives “inadequate” and
“excess” and to have “produc-
tion” directly related to “de-
mand” is simply to see that a
fair day’s work is done for a fair
day’s pay. .
Production Failure
No doubt that is a great deal
more difficult, politically and
physically, to achieve than to
tackle the problem from the
side or the back instead of the
front; but don’t let us deceive
ourselves about what is really
involved. The rot really com-
menced with the introduction
of the 40-hour week, and
though it was encouraged by the
spending pressure that accom-
panied the price-boom in wool,
wheat, metals, etc., our Achilles-
heel remains our too-low output
per man-hour.
In dealing with the consequent
high, production-costs and other
inflationary concomitants, the
economists recommend higher
taxes and higher interest-rates in
order to attack at demand.
“Cost-inflation is an unavoidable
by-product of demand-inflation,”
they say. All right. Assuming
that that is the best political—
and perhaps Constitutional —
way to approach the matter, let’s
investigate it.
“Works” from Revenue
Increased taxation to pay for
public works has merits provided
good value is got for the expendi-
ture, and, overall, less money is
spent instead of more. The
Snowy Mountains scheme is an
example of something being
paid for out of taxation to offset
the inflationary war-time expen-
diture of bank-credit on war-
waste. The P.M.G.’s capital-
spending out of revenue is
another example. Also the
State tends to get back from the
inadequate producer some of
the money which was paid out
for no value received. It is
better to pay for something as a
direct tax than in the form of
inflation.
But it would be outrageous to
increase taxes and then to pay
higher margins to civil servants
out of the proceeds, or to inflate
the civil-service force appreci-
ably and finance the personnel-
inflation out of increased taxes.
The economists tacitly acknow-
ledge this.
And whilst emergency taxa-
tion levied to “drain-off exces-
sive purchasing-power and help
pay for national development,”
and then only as one prong of
a two-pronged “first necessary
measure to guard against what
might shortly become an acute
economic crisis,” may help to
check inflation, it is clear that
the taxation must be of a nature
that will encourage saving (and
production), not discourage it.
Commendably, about three
years ago the present Govern-
ment abolished the tax-
surcharge on property income,
which was, clearly, a penalty-tax
on savings.
This principle might be fol-
lowed further, and the matter of
undistributed - profits tax on
companies, especially private
companies, reconsidered. A
manufacturing company which
retains its profits for the pur-
pose of expanding surely intends
to increase its production, lower
costs, and so counter inflation
by overcoming unsatisfied con-
sumer-demand.
Incentives and Equities
Abolition of undistributed-
profits tax, even as a temporary
measure, might be considered in
conjunction with proposed in-
creases in taxes on personal
incomes, which would include
dividends.
But if heavier flat-rate taxa-
tion is to be levied on companies
with the object of countering
“demand-inflation,” then many
of the anomalies in respect of
depreciation - allowances, etc.,
which have been glaringly
apparent since 1945 will need
to be rectified.
Otherwise taxation will be-
come a murderous bludgeon
instead of a surgical instrument
in this particular operation.
Economists —even as eminent
as Lord Keynes—have been
prone to disregard incentives
and equities in their overall
remedies. They are in need of a
clearer grasp of the implications
of double-entry bookkeeping.
And it is notorious that Taxation
Departments work by the book-
of-rules, and can hardly be
expected to do otherwise, con-
siderate and all as they may be
in particular cases of hardship.
If Canberra should be think-
ing of implem’enting the
economic octet’s recommenda-
tions, it should first of all study
again the representations by
those who have made out a case
for recompense for capital-
erosion. Industry to a large
extent has been living on capital
and paying dividends out of
capital since 1945. In the event
of any lift in company-tax rates
the Hulme report should not be
bypassed, as it was during
preparation of the last Budget.
Public or Private?
The question no doubt arises
as to which type of capital-
expenditure is the more import-
ant —public or private. It is


VACANT POSSESSION
CITY OF BRISBANE
Under instructions from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
On behalf of the TRUSTEES.
FREEHOLD PROPERTY WITH FRONTAGES
to QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS—
THE TWO MAIN STREETS OF BRISBANE.
Situated in the Very Heart of Brisbane’s Commercial Centre
33ft. frontage to Both Streets—full depth of 297 ft.
Solid Brick Building of Basement, Ground and First Floors.
Ideal for an Arcade, Showrooms, Commercial Offices, etc.
A Rare Opportunity to Obtain a City Property with
Vacant Possession.
TO BE AUCTIONED THURSDAY, 23rd FEB.,
at 11 a.m. in our AUCTION ROOM.
Brochure and full details available from:—
SHARP & MUSGRAVE PTY., LTD.,
Auctioneers, 329 Queen St., Brisbane. ’Phone FA 1571.
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Advance booking essential.
omiKD MmWB
U
52
22
N
Q
■c 7
m
fflY
COVEN
tf¥T
3
c 3
Cs
o
HiaMMlB
8
E N
>y»
OqO
:> ■ .
8
®
0
t>7
c 4
rwj
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson's Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure—when only the best will do?
X;
Benson w Hedges
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
THERE ARE ALSO SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED FOR THOSE WHO PREFER THEM
TBW
true that this country is shock-
ingly short of essential public
works. But that is not merely
because of competition for
funds, men and materials by
private enterprise. In N. S.
Wales many Government em-
ployees couldn’t be prised out
of their jobs by offers from
private employers. The fact is,
simply, that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment doesn’t get anything like
the value for the public-works
expenditure that it should.
Works Priorities
All such factors must be con-
sidered. Priorities in public-
works outgo would have to be
accepted by the States. Co-
operation by the States in
capital-issues control in respect
of private enterprise might be
necessary for a brief period. But
where private enterprise is
already catering for an over-
supplied market the share-
market has established its own
system of priorities by making
the raising of fresh share-capital
impossible.
The octet’s proposal to raise
interest-rates is logical; it means
coming into line with the open
market, and discouraging specu-
lative enterprises. This is one of
the “inherent unpleasantnesses in
economic facts.”
The economists’ plan, in spite
of its sideways approach to a
fundamental problem inade-
quate productivity—is worthy of
full attention. There is much
merit in it.
But industrial problems will
have to be tackled through
industrial channels as well as
by economic means. And Con-
stitutional problems will need to
be overcome in addition. It is
probably remembered only too
clearly in Canberra that, on the
eve. of an earlier economic
crisis, Prime Minister Bruce
sought to alter the arbitration-
system, and he was defeated at
the referendum and in his own
electorate in the concurrent
election.
Constitutional Hurdle
Under the Constitution, the
Commonwealth Government is
hamstrung in respect of many
economic activities, and the
arbitration-system, so vital in
any effort to return to the prin-
ciple of a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay, is divided be-
tween Commonwealth and State
authorities.
In the depression it was not
until 1932—three years after the
slump began—that J. T. Lang
was dismissed from office in
N.S.W. and the Premiers’ Plan
was allowed to operate fruit-
fully. In the coming world-wide
economic showdown it will be of
the greatest service to Australia
if the N.S.W. electorate throws
out the Cahill Government at
the State election scheduled for
March 3 this year. Cahill and
his crowd are a more disastrous
stumbling-block to a return to
economic co-operation and
sanity than J. T. Lang ever was.
Tancred Bros. Industries
/'YN reconstructed capitalisation
of the new holding co.,
earnings of Tancred Bros. Pty.,
Ltd., were equal to 25.2 p.c. for
the year to June 30, and 18.3 p.c.
in the year before that. In
1950-51 the figure was 10.4 p.c.
Sales have more than doubled
over the past five years. Profits
retained in the business have
provided the increased working
capital needed to handle the
bigger turnover. Figures for the
first half of the current year
show further growth. The board
talks of a 10 p.c. dividend by the
new public co., "profits and
economic conditions permitting.”
Tancred Bros, began as a
partnership in 1922 and became
a proprietary company in 1932.
The business supplies the
domestic and export market with
beef, veal and pork processed
in the co.’s works in Bourke,
Tenterfield, Lismore, and Sydney
in N.S.W., and at Beaudesert
(Q.), and Melbourne. Large-
scale meatworks and freezing-
works are situated in strategic
positions, as well as by-products
works. Distribution centres are
established at Homebush and
Ultimo (Sydney) and Essendon
(Vic.). Near the principal meat-
works (Bourke) the co. has
43,000 acres of Western Land
Leases, with access to the
Darling River, as resting-
paddocks for stock.
The co. at present does not
process mutton or lamb, but its
meatworks are well spread to
offset effects of regional
droughts.
Before formation of the
present holding co. (registered
January 9, 1956), the proprietary
revalued its freeholds on a 1954
basis and issued (December 12,
1955) 520,413 bonus shares of
10s. each to its old shareholders
out of proceeds of the revalu-
ation. This made the number of
ords. in the proprietary 853,413,
all of 10s. each. In addition,
there were 3400 15 p.c. cum.
prefs. of 10s. each.
The ords. and prefs. have now
been acquired for 1,100,000 10s.
ords. in Tancred Bros. Industries,
Ltd., and 350,000 in cash. Of the
cash consideration, £50,000 will
be met from a dividend of
£181,605 paid to the new co. by
the subsidiary, and the balance
will mostly come from an
issue of 593,998 new 10s. ords.
to be offered to the public at par.
After the issue, a pro forma
statement of assets and liabilities
as at June 30 last would be as
follows:
Paid capital—
(l,7oo,ooo ords. of
10s. each) .. £850,000
Accumulated
profits .. .. £668,105
Less excess of cost
over par-value of
shares in subsidiary
co. ( £471,594) and
preliminary exes.
(£18,000) .. 489,594
178,511
£1,028,511
Cash, etc 78,958
Debtors .. .. 173,150
Stock .. .. 333,939
Freeholds .. .. 539,653
Plant .. .. 160,048
£1,285,648
Deduct —-
Creditors .. .. 68,711
Tax provision .. 117,425
186,136
£1,099,512
Add—
Proceeds new issue £296,999
£1,396,511
Less —
Cash to vendors. . £350,000
Prelim, exes. .. 18,000
868,000
Net tangible assets.. £1,028,511
On the basis of these figures,
net tangible backing for the 10s.
shares in the new company
would be 12s. Id. each. That is
without taking into consideration
profits earned since June 30 last.
The vendors have taken a
bonus-issue of £260,216 out of
the reconstruction, and have, in
effect, then received £471,594
more than the par-value of the
shares in the subsidiaries in
shares in the new co. and cash.
But par-value did not include
large accumulated reserves.
It would appear that before
June 30 last paid capital of the
proprietary was no more than
£168,200. Nevertheless the
transaction has left the new co.
with £178,511 net of undistri-
buted profit over and above the
new capitalisation (taking free-
holds in at their new valuation).
Clearly the business in the past
has been a very profitable one,
and a year ago shareholders’
funds, by reason of accumulated
profits, were very much larger
than capital.
W. E. Bird
Following accountancy
investigations associated
with the takeover bid made by
the Myer Emporium, Mel-
bourne, instead of a profit of
£2012 exhibited in draft
accounts, operations of W. E.
Bird, Ltd., for the year to June
30 last are now revealed to have
shown a consolidated loss of
£318,301.
Grossly inaccurate trading
figures regularly supplied to the
board, duplication of stocks in
the listings, and incorrectly
valued stocks were, according to
chairman Raymont Moore,
partly responsible for the huge
discrepancy between the prelim-
inary trading figure and the later
one. Substantial liabilities were
omitted from the books, while
some assets were shown incor-
rectly.
Mr. Moore tabulated the
position as follows:
Decreases in assets—
Debtors, bills receivable and
commission accrued . . £26,698
Stock in hand and in transit 191,062
Total £217,760
Increases in liabilities—
Accrued interest .. .. 9,917
Creditors (local) .. .. 30,750
Creditors (overseas) .. .. 65,783
Total £106,450
Less decrease in bills payable 4,224
Add capital profit sale of
asset .. ... . . .. 327
Total £324),313
Including the debit balance
brought in from last year,
accumulated losses of the co.
total £446,954, which is more
than double the paid capital of
£220,000.
Mr. Moore states that the
co.’s legal advisers had said that,
on the information available at
this juncture, the board would
not be justified in taking legal
action.
Myer’s have broken*off nego-
tiations with the co., but because
of the taxation “value” of' the
co.’s losses, there is speculative
interest in W. E. Bird £1 shares
at Bd. each.
Cement Cos.
STANDARD CEMENT shares,
at 345., on Sydney ’Change,
yielding 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, look fully-priced,
even though recently down
from 365. They are 16s. shares,
fully-paid. The industry in
N.S.W. is now looking for
customers, and, unlike Kandos,
Standard has no Victorian end
to its manufacturing. Standard
recently issued £200,000 of 6£
p.c. notes rather than raise fresh
ordinary capital.
Kandos is paying 10 p.c. on
its bonus-increased capital. The
yield at 355. 6d. for the £1
shares is 5.6 p.c. •


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
T'HE post-war history of the paint-
industry in Australia centres largely
around the development, by absorptions
and otherwise, of a group of big English-
controlled concerns, of which Taubmans
is the largest. It has been, and still is,
a highly-competitive race in which the
emphasis is upon quality and service, and
that means a close study of consumer
wants and needs, introduction of new
lines, readjustment of production-
schedules, elimination of operational
inefficiencies in plant, management and
labor, and more intensive salesmanship.
The latter has led, among other things,
to establishment of color-advisory
centres, which have been no mean factor
in stimulating turnover.
The Taubman group now comprises
the parent holding co. and 14 operating
subsidiaries, of which nine are ir
N. S. Wales and one each in Victor;*
South Australia, Westralia, Queens! if
and New Zealand. Also the link with le
big English paint people, Pinchin I< .n-
-son and Associates (London), wh ; h olds
a controlling share-interest in * busi-
ness, has meant much both v . ily
and financially.
The outstanding featur last t ; v, was
completion (in March. 9J5) ,cf the big
new £1,500,000-odd r • ary a* Sunshine
(Vic.), which is of .arning-out
over 2,000,000 >1! us of surface-
coatings annually, and will lift total
capacity of the group to more than
5,000,000 galkJiis p.a. Additions and
improvements were made to factories in
other States too. Also, the balance of
the issued shares in Pinchin Johnson
(N.Z.), “Ltd., was bought at a capitalcost
to Taubmans of £102,124, payment being
made in f.-p. ss. shares, and £276,367
v’as added to the share-premium reserve.
Australian production of ready-mixed
paints, lacquers and enamels all increased
during the 12 months to June 30 last:
Faint,* X' :qu Enamels,
C-VUona, Gaii j. Gallons.
1953-64 ~ .. 5,180,000 1,306,000 2,699,000
1854-55 . . C 0,000 3,624,000
4 mth\ Oct., 1.955 V r Y oil,ooo 1,450,000
4 Bead;, -mixed.
The years ovc gr< vth in output was
23 p.c., an, de a has continued to
strengthen since, .s the figures for the
four months to October 31, 1955, show.
Excepting a small falter in 1952,
declared net earnings of the group
advanced by annual steps from £171,617
in 1949 to £428,549 last term, when the
improvement was £44,987:
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. r~ serves, serves.t
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’51.. 299,184 5000 16 =142,967 151,217 1,143,760
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,128,760
Share premiums, £6044 .. .. 1,134,794
Unexplained reductions, £7OOO net .. 1,127,794
’52..278,226 5000 15 = 173,372 99,854 1,227,648
Share premiums, £52,243 .. .. 1,279,891
Profit sale assets, £80,090 .. .. 1,359,981
Less intangibles, etc., £44,731 .. 1,315,250
’63..356,445 5000 15 = 176,309 176,136 1,491,386
Share premiums, £16,368 .. .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,552
Less added intangibles, £14,074 .. 1,495,478
’54..383,562 5000 15 = 176,333 202,229 1,697,707
Add subsidiaries reserves,/'£ 12,760.. 1,710,467
Share premiums, £276,367 .. .. 1,986,834
Unexplained addition, £86,353 .. 2,073,187
Less added intangibles, £202,801 .. 1,870,386
’55..428,549 5000 16 =191,651 231,898 2,102,284
* After eliminating outside interests. t After
deducting intangibles, £285,275 at 30/9/’55.
Allowances for depreciation, taxation
and other contingencies are not disclosed
in the published accounts, but the history
of the business suggests that they have
not been skimped. After paying the
pref. div., the balance of last term’s profit
was 33.2 p.c, on average ord. capital as
against 32.2, 30, 23.6, 30.8 and 35.8 p.c.
back to 1950. The fatness ‘of those
ratios owes much to the size of the
reserves. The div. was kept at 15 pjc.,
making the average distribution over the
last decade 15.8 p.c.
To finance further expansion and pro-
vide more working capital, those on the
register at August 29 last were offered
4,088,568 new ss. ords., four-for-five, at
a premium of Is. each, payable 3s.
November 1, 1955, and the other 3s. April
1, 1956. When all the money is in,
reserves will benefit by £204,428 of
share-premiums, and paid capital will be
£2,399,820, including £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c.
prefs. The pref. div. and 15 p.c. to the
ords. will then call for £78,567 less profit
than was claimed last term. This and
other things add to the attractiveness of
the scrip as an investment.
Finances are healthy:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital .. £1,268,738 £1,275,554 £1,400,799t
Reserves .. .. 1,559,786 1,780,181 2,387,659
Outside interests 211,202 205,830
Mortgages .. 511,518 671,535 572,091
Creditors* .. 674,842 877,833 933,806
Pinchin Johnson
advance .. 625,000
Exchange account 104,459 107,775 110,716
Stafl fund .. 28,000 28,000 28,000
Final divs. .. 93,498 94,044 102,214
£4,451,533 £4,940,752 £6,160,185
Freeholds 1 .. 706,489 1,039,196 1,397,198
Plant .. .. 451,588 545,456 938,337
Stocks .. .. 1,521,122 1,997,276 1,846,809
Debtors, etc. .. 1,096,167 1,078,081 1,829,638
Cash, etc. .. 876,026 172,747 305,128
Inter-co. balances 231,741 26,522 57,800
Intangibles .. 68,400 82,474 285,275
£4,451,533 £4,940,752 £6,160,185
* Includes provision for taxation, f Includes £23,121
calls paid in advance on new share-issue.
The net additions of £358,002 to free-
holds and £392,881 to plant largely
reflect completion of the Sunshine
factory. The book-value of stocks —in
at cost or market-value, whichever is
the lower, less provisions—was reduced
by £150,467, while book-debts and cash,
etc., increased by £251,557 and £132,381
respectively. They are healthy and
encouraging movements. The advance
of £625,0 >om the London co. freed
the boar g worry on account of
the cred Only £56,529 was
added total •'.mount coming to
mortg;»ccs md sundry creditors.
A, Vs. 9d. the f.-p. ">rds. return
5.1 pM on a 15 p.c. div. basis, with pros-
pects. The contribs. are priced at
is, Id. The £1 prefs. at 19s. yield
5.2 p.c. Including the new ae, net
tangible cover is £47 prefs. - id 10s. 6d.
ords. Many of the assets we believed to
be worth more than their book-value.
Tutf Bryant, Ltd.
O ESILIENCE is the feature of the latest
accounts of this 17-year-old organisa-
tion, which is one of the largest pro-
ducers of heavy-duty constructional and
ancillary equipment in the Common-
wealth It consists of parent holding co.
and 1 subsidiaries, of which six are
err jd in manufacture, seven in dis-
don, one in research and another
development Most of the manufae-
mg cos. are centred around Sydney,
at the distributing offshoots, which also
attend to servicing and maintenance,
from which a tidy income is gathered,
are scattered throughout the Common-
wealth, except Tasmania.
Together the group holds nearly two-
score American and British agencies and
licences-to-manufacture, covering equip-
ment for earth-moving, quarrying, dril-
ling, rbad-construction and -maintenance,
materials-handling and railway-construc-
tion work, etc. Earnings therefore de-
pend largely upon the requirements of
Government and semi - Government
authorities for construction and other
projects, and upon the needs of the
mining, building and other industries
which use power-shovels, draglines,
cranes, drilling and materials-handling
apparatus.
During the seven years since the public
became interested in 1948, issued capital
has advanced from £150,000 to
£1,332,127, ord. divs. have averaged 11.1
p.c., sweetened with £197,000 of bonus-
scrip as well as new issues at par, and
reserves have climbed from £7590 to
£630,792, subject to only £3OOO of intan-
gibles. After reaching a peak in 1952,
earnings got a sudden jolt in 1953, when
a sharp drop in turnover, accumulation
of stocks and some price-cutting followed
curtailment of public spending and entry
of Government - owned earthmoving
equipment, etc., into the disposals market.
The remarkable recovery of the figures
since is due to the quick revival of
economic activity and of public and
private spending on development work,
as well as continued improvement in
managerial and operational efficiency.
Last term sales increased by £1,817,097,
or 51 p.c., reaching £5,377,096, which
was slightly in excess of the 1952 figure.
The demand for oilfield and uranium-
and other-mining equipment helped to
bump the figures up. After allowing for
depreciation (£20,487, up £146) and taxa-
tion (£87,998, up £31,048), the spring in
net earnings was £90,192, or 66.8 p.c.:
Parent and Subsidiaries,
t _ _ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. < Ord. N serves, serves.f
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1949. .101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 81,887 111,977
1950. .185,145 6781 15 „ ~ 37,969 141,395 253,372
1951. .207,603 7600 15 „ ~ 73,828 126,275 379,647
1952. .212,209 7600 10 „ ~75,937 128,772 508,419
1953.. 74,464 7500 8 „ ~60,760 6,214 514,633
Profit sale land, £16,606 .. .. 531,239
1954. .135,026 7500 10 p.c. = 77,656 49,870 581,109
Share premiums, £11,448 .. .. 592,557
Revaluation reserve, £235,235 .. 827,792
Reserves capitalised, £197,000 .. 630,792
1955. .225,2!8 7500 10 p.c. = 81,360 136,358 767,150
t Subject to intangibles, etc., now £3OOO.
The £225,218 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 26.7 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 16.8, 8.8, 26.9, 40.6 and 70.8
p.c. back to 1950. The div., which was
kept at 10 p.c., was sweetened with the
issue of £197,000 of bonus-scrip (one-for-
four) from an assets-revaluation reserve
of £235,235, and with a similar issue of
£1 ords. at par, both in April last.
The bonus-shares make 10 p.c. worth
12} p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift, and the cash issue was in the nature
of a bonus, too, because of the premium
at which the old shares stood in the
market. Including £150,000 of 5 p.c.
prefs., issued capital is now £1,332,127,
of which £27,597 was still to come when
the books closed. On that lot last term’s
profit covered the pref. requirements
and 19.2 p.c. on ord. capital. Together
with the fact that there has been no cut in
public-loan afllocations to the States, it all
gives the 10 p.c. div. a comfortable
appearance, though it may be difficult to
hold turnover at last term’s level.
The financial position strengthened,
the improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,02 7,520) being
£230,887:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £909,375 £909,376 £1,804,580
Reserves .. .. 514,638 V 581,109 767,150
Mortgages .. 68,000 58,000 68,000
Overdraft .. 907,819 771,602 852,889
Sundry 'creditors,
etc 436,024 652,949 805,066
Tax provision . . 139,760 57,210 108,182
Staff fund . . 22,479 20,318 33,147
Final divs. .. 37,922 51,030 45,710
£3,026,012 £3,101,593 £3,974,674
Freeholds and plant 546,588 534,853 859,783
Shares subsidiaries 78,176 155,998 181,377
Stock .. .. 1,708,778 1,881,554 1,727,443
Book debts . . 640,252 997,730 1,167,950
Cash, etc. .. 22,233 28,452 35,121
Intangibles .. 29,985 3,000 3,000
£3,026,012 £3,101,593 £3,974,674
The growth in freeholds and plant (up
£324,930) and share-capital (up £395,155)
partly reflected the revaluation of assets
and issue of bonus-scrip already referred
to. The bigger trading again shows up
in net additions of £345,889 to stocks
and £170,214 to book-debts. The net
addition to the outside debt, which is
substantial, was £233,404.
Mindful of the risks to which the busi-
ness is exposed, the market prices the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 255. 3d. to return 7.9 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 16s.
yield 6.3 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £l3 19s. 6d. prefs. and 325. lid.
ords.
International Resistance Holdings
TN this age of electricity the post-war
-*• growth of electronics, and its applica-
tion to radio, radar, television and a wide
range of industrial and commercial
appliances, has created new and grow-
ing demands for specialised electrical
components. This International Resis-
tance group—parent and five operating
subsidiaries—which has Commonwealth-
wide connections, manufactures, imports
and distributes an extensive range of
electrical resistances, condensers, aircraft
and automobile cables, chokes, coils,
fluorescent-lighting, and magnetic sound-
recording equipment, etc.
The foundations of the business were
laid in 1934, when W. J. McLelland and
M. Walker (present managing-director)
secured the Australian rights to make
the electrical resistances, etc., turned out
by the International Resistance Co.
(U.S.). The present holding' co. was
formed in March, 1950, with a paid
capital of £171,930 in f.-p. ss. shares,
which had been exchanged for scrip in
International Resistance Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
and its subsidiary, Wm. J. McLelland
Co. Pty., and National Transformers
Pty. (all Sydney), and Australian
Engineering Co. Pty. (Melb.). In the
following years Conqueror Cables Pty.
(Sydney) was bought for £25,000, one
half cash and the other half shares. To
help finance expansion those on the
register were offered at par 382,280 new
ss. ords. in 1951 and a further 280,000
ss. ords. in 1952, thus lifting paid capital
to £350,000.
Last term the order-book ran ahead of
plant-capacity, and additional Govern-
ment and other contracts have been
received since. To finance further
expansion and plant - mechanisation,
£70,000 of 6 p.c. five-year registered
unsecured notes were issued in September,
1954, followed by 100,000 new £1 7}
p.c. cum. prefs. in March, 1955. But it
was not enough; so those on the ord.-
register at February 7 were offered
700,000 new ss. ords. at par, one-for-two,
payable in full by March 2. Thus the
f.-p. ss. ords. at 7s. 6d. have an ex-
rights value of 6s. 7d., and the rights a
theoretical value of Is. 7d. The return
at 6s. 7d. on a 10 p.c. div. basis is 7.6 p.c.,
with satisfactory long-term prospects,
though the co. has not yet had an oppor-
tunity to develop much in the way of
tangible support for capital.
Increased turnover —which got only
partial benefit from the new note-money
and pref. capital—and improved opera-
tional efficiency lifted last term’s net
earnings by £24,123, or 59 p.c.:
International Resistance Holdings and
Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves, serves.*
SO, £ £ £ £ £
7} p.c.
1950.. 31.525 8$ p.c. = 14,274 17,251 41,763
To assets revaluation reserve, £22,295 64,058
Unexplained additions, £7199 .. 71/257
1951.. 42.712 10 p.c. = 20,832 21,880 93,137
Unexplained additions, £2 .. .. 93,139
1952.. 49.294 10 p.c. = 28,000 21,294 114,433
Tax overprovided, £648 .. .. 115,081
1953.. 13,077 3 p.c. = 10,500 2,577 117,658
Tax overprovided, £2709 .. .. 120,367
1954.. 40.756 10 p.c. = 35,000 5,756 126,123
1955.. 64.879 1563 10 „ ~35,000 28,257 154,380
* Subject to intangibles, £147,568 at 30/6/’55.
The £64,879 of profit was enough to hand
the prefs. £1563 and show 19.2 p.c. on the
£350,000 of ord. capital as against 11.6,
3.7, 17.6 and 20.5 p.c. back to 1951. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c. When all the
money on the present new issue is in
paid capital will be £625,000, of which
£lOO,OOO carries a cumulative 7% p.c.
The pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
will then call for £4879 less profit than
was won last term. So the 10 p.c. is in no
immediate danger.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Ords. .. .. .. £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Prefs 100,000
Reserves 117,658 126,123 154,380
Notes .. .. .. 70,000
Mortgages .. .. 43,321 60,718 66,312
Overdraft .. .. 43,269 64,702 14,678
Creditors, etc.*.. .. 60,611 80,845 111,141
Final div 10,500 17,500 19,062
£625,359 £699,888 £885,573
Freehold, plant,
etc 187,177 243,325 292,927
Leaseholds .. .. 2,547 1,493 439
Stocks 205,518 209,349 306,237
Debtors, etc 87,320 103,018 136,917
Cash 1,394 1,342 1,495
Intangibles .. .. 141,403 141,361 147,558
£625,359 £699,888 £885,573
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s growth in total assets was
£185,685, of which £49,602 was in re-
spect of freeholds, plant, etc., £96,888
stocks and £33,899 debtors’ balances, etc.
To meet the outlay and clip £50,020 off
the overdraft, £170,000 of note- and pref.-
money was gathered and £30,296 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc.
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Tas.)
tX/TTH an eye to the future the co. is
’ ’ increasing the capacity of its cement
plant at Railton (Tas.), which is along-
side good shale, clay and limestone de-
posits, and that means much so far as
costs are concerned. And nextdoor to
the cement-works is an asbestos-cement
factory, put up in 1947, but whose output
is still below capacity.
The new cement-kiln, foundations for
which are well on the way, will have a
capacity of 95,000 tons p.a., and will lift
the co.’s total capacity to 150,000 tons
annually. Provision is also being made
for installation of additional plant which
will lift the figure to 190,000 tons p.a.,
should the need arise. Tasmanian
cement-consumption is now nearing the
100,000-ton-p.a.-mark, and is expected
to steadily increase during the years
ahead. At the moment a ready market
awaits the co.’s output in excess of its
home-State requirements on the main-
land, chiefly in Victoria, where some of
the asbestos-cement products are sold,
too.
To help meet outlay on the new plant
those on the register (pref. and ord.) at
September 30 last were offered 415,186
new 10s. ords. at par, payable ss. on
December 1, 1955, and ss. June 1, 1956.
When all the money on the new shares
is in, paid capital will be £830,373 in
143,092 £1 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,372,563 ords. of 10s. each. The pref.
div. and 8.3 p.c. to the ords. (rate paid
for the last three years) would then call
for £12,074 less profit than was claimed
last term. And that makes no allowance
for what the new and more efficient plant
—which the £207,593 of fresh capital will
represent —may contribute to the pool.
So, when the new kiln gets into its stride,
a lift in the div. to, say, 10 p.c.—which
was covered with £3BO to spare last term
—is a reasonable expectation, with the
possibility of a bit more later on.
The market therefore prices the f.-p.
10s. ords. at 13s. 6d. to return 6.1 p.c.
on an 8.3 p.c. div. basis, or 7.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. The 7 p.a prefs. re-
cently sold at par. There has been no
recent sale of the contribs. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover is £8 14s.
lid. prefs. and 16s. Id. ords.
Last term Tasmanian consumption of
cement increased, but a 20 p.c. cut in
power-supplies and shipping difficulties
affected deliveries to the mainland. Total
sales were thus slightly below the pre-
vious year’s. After allowing £67,324 (up
£8212) for taxation, the usual £lO,OOO
for depreciation and sending £40,000
(same as previous year) to plant-renewal
reserve (now £240,000), the profit


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
RTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
I No Pads —
| No Springs
The KEJO-BARRERB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton 'will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BA.RRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3f), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear’'
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
4
LIFE ASSURANCE
e'tvice
FOR
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
UU. m OUMB urn.'
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligli Streets, Sydney.
Of Australians who have won to world stature
in scholarship, none, I believe, is more distinguished
than Dr. Gilbert Murray.
News recently of his 90th birthday was a
reminder of the years he has spent to the enrichment
of learning as an authority on ancient Greece and
its literature.
His life and work fascinate me, for the study
of Greek was part of my training. I stood at
Athens where St. Paul spoke about “The Unknown
God.” And I looked upon Corinth, to whose people
Paul addressed some of his most graphic Epistles.
In so many ways —in the language, in the
rituals of Christian worship—the Greek influence
is felt in our lives today.
/
The two ages will be linked in Australia in
this very year. Next November the Olympic Flame
will be kindled on the site where ancient Greeks
contested in athletics. It will be flown to Australia,
and 2,750 runners will carry it in relays from
Cairns to Melbourne for the 1956 Olympic Games.
Gilbert Murray, more than any other living
man, has brought the old Greek culture closer to
our time by his translations of prose and poems
and plays.
He went to England from Australia as a boy.
His student career was crowned with a professorship
at Glasgow when he was 23, and from there he
became Oxford’s great luminary in his department
of the classics.
The spirit of the man, the purpose that led
him further on and up, when he had already
reached to almost lonely heights in scholarship—
these are inspiring traits I would commend now to
young Australians, when so much in their country’s
Future is going to depend on first-rate effort.
The example is there for them in the life of
a man whose works, like those of the Greeks of
old, will influence others centuries after him.
// X
claimed was £2150 short of the
1954 figure:—
( Dividends \
Net Pref. Re-
Spt.,Prft. 7 p.c. , Ord. s serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’51..31,174 10,016 6.6 = 25,583 200,516
Add plant reserve, £30,000 . . 230,516
’52..45,271 10,016 7.5 = 28,78 2 2 36,99 0
Add plant res., etc., £35,014 272,004
’53..70,932 10,016 8.3 = 38,370 294,550
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 292,550
Add plant reserve, £40,000.. 332,550
’54..81,284 10,016 8.3 = 39,974 363,844
Add plant reserve, £40,000.. 408,844
’55..79,134 1 0,016 8.3 = 39,9 7 5 4 3 2,987
Written-off, £lO,OOO .. .. 422,987
To staff fund, £l5OO .. 421,487
The £79,134 is a conservative
figure, because of the heavy
special allowance for plant-
depreciation, partly dictated by
the heavy capital outlay ahead.
The £lO,OOO written off was
in respect of the co.’s half-
interest (£79,518) in an asbestos-
mine in Southern Rhodesia,
which hasn’t yet performed fully
up to expectations—Humes, Ltd.,
is the other partner.
Of the year’s net addition of
£75,473 to the book-value of
freeholds and plant, £51,126 was
progress payments on un-
delivered equipment for the new
kiln:
Paid capital— 1954. • 1956.
Preference .. £143,092 £143,092
Ordinary 479,688 479,688
Reserves .. 363,844 421,487
Overdraft .. .. 69,210
Creditors .. 60,515 93,717
Tax provision .. . 65,000 70,000
Final divs. .. ' 28,993 28,993
£1,141,132 £1,306,187
Freeholds, plant.. 488,716 564,189
Shares other cos. 116,550 121,518
Stocks .. .. 257,061 341,862
Debtors .. .. 164,685 204,676
Cash, Govt, bonds 114,120 73,942
£1,141,132 £1,306,187
Shareholdings include 25,000
f.-p. £1 shares in North Aus-
tralian Cement (Townsville),
which commenced production in
October, 1954. The year’s im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£428,477) was
£47,119. Altogether it is a well-
balanced and comfortable finan-
cial structure.
A.O.E. and' Rio Tinto
Large-scale production of
uranium-oxide calls for very
heavy capital outlay, and a long--
term contract covering sales of
the stuff at a satisfactory floor-
price is not easy to obtain. Hence
A.O.E.’s tentative agreement with
Rio Tinto, the big English pros-
pecting and investment co., for
mining and treating uranium ore
from the Mary Kathleen leases
(N.Q.).
A.O.E.’s chairman recently told
shareholders that up to
£10,000,000 would need to be
spent before revenue began to
flow in from sales of the mill
product (uranium-oxide). The
plant itself would upwards
of £8,500,000 —earlier someone
had estimated that £6,000,000
would be enough to cover plant
and working capital.
Under the tentative agreement,
Rio Tinto would take up about
£72,000 of ord. capital in the
Mary Kathleen co., and provide
the rest of the money needed by
way of secured loan or redeem-
able pref. shares. The amount
involved is to be repaid over the
period of the sales-contract
which, it is hoped, will be
entered into between the Mary
Kathleen co. and the “appro-
priate authorities.”
Details of the prospective
contract could not be given to
shareholders for security reasons,
the chairman said. Rio Tinto is
to inform A.O.E. by the end of
this month (February) whether it
intends to proceed with the
venture. If it decides to do so, it
has agreed to forgo a manage-
ment fee of £75,000 p.a. pro-
vided for in the March, 1955,
agreement. This, the chairman
added, would mean a saving of
£750,000 over a ten-year period,
which might be taken as a hint
as to the time factor in the con-
tract it is hoped to secure.
At the moment all the investor
knows for certain is that Rio
Tinto would be entitled to its
money back, plus an agreed
return thereon, over the period
of the contract. Ord. share-
holders would be entitled to
what was left.
Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines
The mine, which adjoins the
Emperor, Fiji, is just about
worked-out. That shifts the in-
vestment interest mainly to the
co.’s own big portfolio of share-
holdings, and to the possibility
of a new mine being opened up
in a jointly-held area adjacent to
the eastern boundary of the
Emperor leases. Here prospect-
ing has not yet disclosed any-
thing worth whooping about,
but has produced results en-
couraging enough to justify
further exploration.
For the year to June 30 last
the co. milled 22,282 tons of
11.2dwt. ore for 10,4320 z. fine
gold and 43470 z. silver. But
the net result was a loss —for the
first time —of £4567. During
the 20-odd years since the co.
was formed it has paid dividends
totalling £1,258,373 ; the last Is.
a share was sent out on Decem-
ber 20, 1955. Paid capital is
£93,375 in 825,000 ss. shares of
which 180,000 are f.-p. and the
balance paid to Is. 6d. each.
When the books closed avail-
able ore consisted of 9000 tons
averaging lO.ldwt. and a special
block of 2400 tons of 60dwt.
stuff. For the 24 weeks to
December 7 last 7857 tons had
been treated for 39220 z. fine
gold.
Net profit for the year to
June 30, 1955, was £103,096, of
which a 2s. div. called for
£82,500. The net return from
investments was £107,663 (up
£19,752), or 2s. 7d. per share.
In December last the book-value
of the investment portfolio
(£1,204,215) was equal to
295. 2d. per share, and the
market-value to 355. a share. In
addition there were debtors’
balances and cash totalling
£154,746 to meet £24,934 coming
to sundry creditors. The market
prices the f.-p. shares at 245. 6d.
and the contribs. at 255. 6d.
Woodside (Lakes Ent.) Oil
A Melbourne float, the co.
kicked-off in August, 1955, with
a capital of £500,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares (the issue was under-
written), together with oil-
prospecting rights over some 200
square miles of the South Gipps-
land baski, and hopes of striking
the stuff in commercial quanti-
ties within a depth of 6000 ft.
Drilling of No. 1 well ceased
at 6008 ft. The hole provided
no more than useful geological
information and a showing of
oil at ultimate depth. So the
rig was transferred to a new
No. 2 site about four miles
south, and a week or so ago had
reached a depth of 2200 ft.,
where it was in a limestone-
sandstone formation. Between
1300 ft. and 1500 ft. increasing
gas pressure and showings of
oil were met with. This sector
has been sealed-off, and core
samples sent to the Victorian
Mines Department for analysis.
Presently the co. proposes to
offer those on the register
1,000,000 new ss. shares —the
unsubscribed balance of
2,000,000 ss. shares offered in
September last —at par. The old
shares, which dropped from a
peak of 6s. 6d. to a low of
Is. 3d. during 1955, recently sold
at 7s.
The once-prosperous London-
controlled Sons of Gwalia (paid
capital £162,500 in 10s. shares)
hasn’t met with much luck of
recent years. Since operations
began at the end of last century
the co. paid dividends totalling
£2,005,987, the last being 2s. a
share in 1951. Since then rising
costs and labor difficulties have
played havoc with net earnings,
and shareholders have gone
hungry. For the 44 weeks to
November 1, 1955, 102,700 tons
ore were milled for 20,3380 z.
fine gold. Soon afterwards
operations were brought to a halt
when part of the main shaft
(total depth 5370 ft.) caved-in.
After an eight-week hold-up,
normal production began again
on January 30, 1956. Over 4000
tons of debris had been re-
moved from the mine, and 230 ft.
of the main shaft was re-
timbered. Meanwhile the Wes-
tralian Government has exj|
tended its guarantee of financial
assistance to the co. from
£150,000 to £225,000. Negotia-
tions for sale of a majority of
the co.’s shares have been unsuc-
cessful, the chairman says. A
year or so ago Bewick Moreing
and Co. recommended that
Gwalia spend £269,876 on mine-
equipment (£47,300), mine-
development (£81,853), treat-
ment-plant (£88,223), surface-
plant (£12,500) and housing and
amenities (£40,000). The scrip,
which fetched Bs. a year ago,
recently sold at 4s.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The weather is humid, summer is
beginning to make itself unpopular in
Sydney, and the sight of winter-coats in
most of the department-store windows
does not do much to cheer people up.
These coats, by the way, nearly all follow
the straight-and-narrow line. Austerity
in cut is obviously to be ours in the
coming months, and, with the dropped
waistline already established, it won’t
be long before we ourselves are
wearing (or wearing once more) 'the
fashions we are finding so amusing in the
musical skit “The Boy Friend,” now at
the Elizabethan Theatre.
Actually, looking at these costumes,
so cleverly designed by Elaine Haxton,
one can see some idea of why they were
so popular. They would need very little
material, they would be easy to cut-out
(no pattern required after the first one),
the short skirt would give freedom of
movement, the waistlessness would
emphasise the slimness of the slim and
disguise the fact that the tubby did not
have a waist in any case, while dress-
maker-fittings would probably vanish
from the scene. As for the appearance
—well, fashion and usage create their
own beauty, or, if not beauty, at least
fun.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a signal honor for the sex that
at the opening concert of the Mozart
Festival at the packed Conservatorium
on Saturday night the only two soloists
were women. They were the English
pianist Irene Kohler, who wore a full-
skirted maize frock, the bodice heavily
encrusted with rhinestones, and Mel-
bourne coloratura-soprano Glenda Ray-
mond, whose graceful frock of white
nylon-net was circled at the hips with
sprays of lily-of-the-valley. Seen among
the audience was Hungarian - born
robust-tenor Miklos Gafni, who opens
his Sydney season for the A.B.C. on
February 23 ; with him, his glamorous
young wife.
* ☆ *
Next Saturday afternoon (February 11)
at 5.30 a special train drawn up at No. 15
platform, Central Station, will be the
setting for a farewell cocktail-party. This
“special” will take the National Opera’s
cast on its 28-day tour of N.S.W., pre-
senting “Madane Butterfly” to audiences
in 19 country cities and towns. Parlia-
mentarians, top railway-officials (includ-
ing Commissioner Winsor) and other
V.I.P.s will attend. The hostess will be
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, founder and honorary
director of the National Opera, who will
be directing the tour.
The National Opera Express will be so
named by Mr. Winsor, when, a few
minutes before it is scheduled to pull-out
at 8.5 a.m. on Monday, he breaks a bottle
of champagne over the bows of the
engine. This will be the first time in Aus-
tralia that an all-Australian opera-
company has chartered its own train for
a country tour. It is fitted-up so that the
entire cast can sleep and eat on it
throughout the tour.
☆ ☆ ☆
A cute French-poodle called Lillibelle,
wearing a turquoise hat and holding a
champagne-cocktail, adorns the very
attractive invitation-cards which the
Comtesse d’Espinay (otherwise “Yani,”
otherwise Henriette Lamotte) has sent
out for the gala-preview of her winter-
collection, to be shown at her new salon
in St. James Building on Thursday,
February 16, at 6 p.m. The proceeds of
the parade, which will include a" showing
of Renee’s exquisite imported mink, are
to go to the Royal Blind Society of
N.S.W.
☆ ☆ ☆
“E.D.A.8.”: Took her final curtain in
Melbourne last month (January 19),
Daisie Young, born June 1, 1875, one of
the three remaining daughters of the great
George Coppin, father of the Australian
stage. The Bulletin of April 25, 1896,
pictured little “Miss Daisie” as an attrac-
tive brown-haired lass who had started
as “a somewhat raw amateur in a panto-
mime ballet at Melb. Royal three or
four years ago” ; she had become a “well-
educated dancer, with a good bit of style
of her own, who should do particular
credit to her family next Christmas.”
She made good the promise ; later toured
America, Where she lived with the
Fortesques. Back in Australia, in 1905,
she danced solo for Harry Rickards at his
Opera House in Melbourne. Pen-
pushers of the day could still describe her
art as skilful and graceful'; herself as a
bright young dancer. She left the boards
to marry Cyril Young, an Australian
engineer-turned-actor, whom she had
met in America.
Daughter of Mrs. Evelyn Crossing, of
Edgecliff, and the late W. S. Crossing,
Judy Crossing was married to Michael
White, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. H. White,
of Belltrees, Scone, at All Saints Church.
Woollahra, on Friday—a wedding of
special interest to both Sydney and
country circles. Tucked into her lovely
wedding-gown was an antique pearl-
brooch worn by her grandmother, the
late Mrs, J. E. Mackellar, when she was
married. Judy and Michael have
chosen Honolulu for their honeymoon.
Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
How about starting a society for the
abolition of the reading of “apologies”
at committee-meetings? It seems so
strange to highlight the names of the
people who were not at the former
meeting (which in the case of annual
general meetings has taken place 12
months before!). One result of this
habit is that some who seldom go to a
meeting, but always send an apology,
have their names read out time and again,
and in this way become “well-known
committee-women”! It seems a little
unfair to the conscientious types who
always attend the meetings and really do
the work.
* V V
A charming fashion revived at the
Crossing-White wedding was the “fasci-
nator” of pale-blue chiffon which the
three matrons-of-honor wore round their
heads. It is most feminine and becom-
ing, especially when, as in this instance, it
matches the swathes of chiffon threaded
through the skirts of the white ballerina
dresses. The matrons-of-honor were
Mrs. Colin Ryrie, the bride’s sister (who
sang the hymn “God Be in My Head and
in My Understanding” during the signing
of the register), Mrs. David Joseland and
Mrs. Laurence Street.
☆ ☆ ☆
Vivacious Lillian Roxon, who recently
set sail for the U.S., writes from the
tropics that she has fallen in love with
Suva, but is otherwise “terribly home-
sick” and “bound to be back in six
months.” How often do we get this
reaction from travellers at the beginning
of their journey? It will be interesting
to note whether Lillian, in spite of her
host of friends in Sydney, changes her
opinion as the world opens before her.
# * #
The N.S.W. College of Nursing will
hold its annual garden-fete in the grounds
of Admiralty House, Kirribilli, on Satur-
day next, February 11. The fete will be
officially opened at 2.30 p.m. by Mrs.
E. W. Woodward, and during the after-
noon the Police Pipe Band will play a
musical programme. The stalls will
be conducted by nurses from metropoli-
tan hospitals, and there will also be a
mannequin-parade. Many well-known
radio-artists will be present.
MELBOURNE
In the absence of U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner, who
are on leave in the United States, U.S.
Consul Givon Parsons and Mrs. Parsons
gave a farewell-party for U.S. Am-
bassador Amos Peaslee and Mrs. Peaslee
at the Consular residence in South Yarra.
Huge bowls of varicolored hydrangeas
were matched by the colorful summer
frocks worn by guests. Mrs. Peaslee had
a small white cap topping her white linen
frock embroidered with red flowers in
tiny white flower-pots. Mrs. Parsons’s
cocktail-frock of mist-blue linen was
trimmed with matching guipure-lace.
Guests included the Archbishop of
Melbourne, Dr. J. J. Booth, and Mrs.
Booth, Major-General Bridgford and
Mrs. Bridgford (her grey lace and chiffon
frock worn with a pastel-pink picture-
hat), Lady Gullett (her frock of white
chiffon sprigged with black flowers and
topped by a picture-hat of black lace),
Mrs. T. V, Ryan (who presented a
cigarette-box to the Ambassador on
behalf of the Queensland Government),
Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck and Lady
Selleck, and former Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress Cr, and Mrs. Robert
Solly.
Americans present included Mrs. A. W.
Butler, from Michigan, who is on a visit
to her daughter and son-in-law (Major
and Mrs. L. Donnelly); Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Allen; Mrs. C. Ross Greening
(whose black self-patterned satin frock
was cut on slim lines); Colonel and Mrs.
Milner (he is U.S. Military Attach^);
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Daum ; Mr. and Mrs.
W. W. Killough; U.S. Consul Joseph
Wiedenmayer and his wife; newly-
arrived, newly-married U.S. Vice-
Consul Charles York and his wife (she in
a dove-grey frock which had a large white
pique fichu-collar).
Mrs. James Bowen Pain, newly-
appointed press- and public-relations
officer of The Oriental, in Collins-street,
is an Englishwoman, married to a well-
known businessman in this city, and has
a son, Peter, who is doing Law at the
University. During the war Mrs. Bowen
Pain trained as a V.A.D. Well versed
in sales-promotion, she is well known as
the hostess at the famous parties her
husband used to give in the old Matthew
Lang cellars. John Warlow photo.
Mrs. H. A. Standish was hostess for
her father, Sir John Newman Morris,
when, as president of the Royal Empire
Society, he received at a late-afternoon
party in honor of Air-Chief-Marshal Sir
Arthur Longmore and Lady Longmore
at Royal Empire House in Queen’s-road.
Council-members were present, as were
representatives of other Empire societies.
Lady Longmore, who is paying her first
visit to this country, wore a long, graceful
gown of lace in delphinium-blue tonings.
Among the guests were the , Chief
Justice of the High Court, Sir Owen
Dixon, and Lady Dixon, Major-General
and Mrs. Kingsley Norris, Vice-Admiral
R. R. Dowling and Mrs. Dowling,
Brigadier and Mrs. Ronald Irving, Mr.
and Mrs. lan Connell (she is senior vice-
president of the Victoria League in Vic-
toria), Mrs. Frank Woodruff (president
of the women’s group of the R.E.S.) and
the newly-appointed Agent-General for
Victoria in London, Mr. Leggatt, and
Mrs. Leggatt.
Wedding of the week, that of Denise
Florence, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. A. French, of Brighton, to Bruce
Palmer, only son of the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck, of Armadale, was celebrated in
the Chapel of Melbourne Grammar
School. The bride’s gown of finely-
pleated white organdie had a triple-
tiered skirt, each (ier banded with pearl-
embroidered guipure-lace to match the
band on the V-neckline. The short three-
tiered tulle veil was held with a pearl-
embroidered lace-coronet, and she carried
white orchids.
Mrs. Len Fenton (the bride’s sister),
Lucy Donne and little Dale Fenton were
in attendance. The former two wore
short white pleated three-tiered organza
frocks, the tiers joined with horizontal
tucks finished with pink-and-white-
spotted cummerbunds to match their tiny
spotted “bow” hats. Dale wore a white,
pink-embroidered organdie frock with a
wreath of pink Cecil Brunner roses.
They all carried pale-pink roses. John
Roark, of Tasmania, was best man, and
Brian Selleck, the ’groom’s cousin, was
groomsman. The reception was at
Ciro’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
In another interesting wedding during
the week the bride wore two wedding-
gowns. This wedding was that of Dr.
Lee Wee Kit, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Lee Chuck, of Singapore (a graduate
in Medicine, she is on the staff of the
Queen Victoria Hospital), and civil-
engineer Kenneth Hoey Ying Doon Gin,
youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
I-loey W. Gin, formerly of Toorak.
For the ceremony at Wesley Church
the bride wore a gown of white French-
lace and tulle, with a tulle veil. She
added diamond ear-rings, pendant and
bracelet, the gift of her parents. Barbara
Gin, the bridegroon’s sister (she is a dieti-
tian, also at the Q.V.), attended the bride
in a white tulle frock with grey satin
cummerbund.
Later, at the reception held in the
University Union House, the bride
changed into her second wedding dress —
the traditional Chinese bridal-dress of
jacket and slim skirt. The jacket was
lavishly embroidered in gold and silver
threads in designs of dragon and phoenix,
the dragon representing the ’groom, the
phoenix the bride. The scarlet skirt was
embroidered in similar designs, and the
bride’s lovely and unusual sandals were
of flowers enclosed in glass. Later this
month the newlyweds sail for Singapore,
where they will have another wedding-
reception. They both plan to follow
their professions in Singapore.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many of the guests who attended the
buffet-dinner party given by Sir Lawrence
and Lady Wackett at their Beaumaris
home had dinner at small tables set on
the patio, while others were entertained
in the reception-rooms. Guests-of-honor
were English visitors Lord and Lady
Hives and their daughter the Hon.
Phillipa Hives. Both hostess and Lady
Hives chose black for their frocks. Lady
Wackett’s was of silk-taffeta with a side-
pannier. The Hon. Phillipa wore a slim
frock of grey-and-pink floral-silk. Mrs.
Barton Perkins assisted her parents with
the entertaining, her choice a striking
black-and-white-striped taffeta frock with
a wide fichu-collar of apple-green satin.
Among the guests were Minister for
Air Athol Townley, Air-Marshal Sir
John McCauley and Lady McCauley,
Air-Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones, Air-Vice-Marshal Wackett and
Mrs. Wackett (her full-skirted gown was
of white organza, shadow-printed in
grey), Air-Vice-Marshal F. Scherger and
his wife, Sir Daniel and Lady McVey,
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Darling (her drift-
away gown of white chiffon), Mr. and
Mrs. Colin Syme, Mr. and Mrs. John
Bates, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Birch (her
short, slim frock of white and silver
lame), Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Holyman and
Group-Captain T. Beare.
☆ ☆ ☆
Brilliant sunshine and hot weather with
just enough breeze made very pleasant
conditions for the M.R.C.’s meeting at
Moonee Valley. Mrs. R. V. Gove, wife
of the M.R-C. chairman, entertained a
large party at luncheon in the committee-
room ; among her guests were Lady
Hives, Lady Rowell, Lady Burston, Mrs.
C. O. Fairbairn, Mrs. J. C. Reilly, Mrs.
G. Alderton, Mrs. A. J. Moir and her
daughter, and Jane Essington Lewis.
Mrs. Alfred Fowler wore a mist-blue,
white-spotted wild-silk frock and tiny
white hat, Mrs. Betty Fitzgerald grey-
and - black - checked jacket - frock ot
dacron.


CUAR n^
PROTECTA
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales* Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleas inf in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distritiuinf *4 (enu —
SYDNEY , W. C. Penfold * Co. Ply. ltd.
MELBOURNE . . Norman Broa. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE • • Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH . . Docket Book Co. (Auat.)
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
NS
B
Q
REO° TRADE MARK
7J
FOLDING
ARMCHAIR
What every home has wanted for years—you just sit at ease
in your favourite armchair and read or work in comfort!
Homework becomes a pleasure for all the family.
The “Lap-tab” is made of heavy gauge sheet steel, sprayed
with beige felt, giving a non-skid surface. Two deep channels
are provided for pens and pencils. Detachable ash trays are
conveniently placed at either side. Setting up and folding
away operations take only a few seconds.
An absolute “must” for Students, Invalids and all who
take work home or desire to be fully relaxed when
reading, writing, etc.
Money-back Guarantee Offer!
® Post the attached coupon together
•with £4/17/6, and we will deliver to
you a “Lap-tab” post free. If not satis-
fied within one week’s trial, return to
us and your money will be refunded
in full.
i
5*
X
* / *» . 1
*l , l.
To BARRY S. MOORE PTY. LTD.,
53 Walker St., North Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a “Lap-tab” post free. I enclose cheque for
£4/17/6.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Mozart Festival
An excellent and representative
two-hour programme of Mozart
was given by the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra under Bernard
Heinze to a capacity audience at
Sydney Con., with Irene Kohler
an Glenda Raymond as soloists.
It began, appropriately, with
the delightful overture to the
opera with which the composer
notched his first great success on
the lyric-stage—“ The Marriage
of Figaro”—in which overture
the bubbling humor foreshadows,
without benefit of any theme
from the opera itself, that of
the Beaumarchais comedy.
There followed the “Serenata
Notturna,” K. 239, a fine example
of the polished, graceful type of
light music which Mozart tumed-
out in such prodigious quantities
on commission for social
occasions. Both these pieces
were played by an orchestra alive
to the special requirements of
Mozart.
The concerto was for the
piano, No. 20 in D Minor, K. 466.
Miss Kohler’s performance was
neat, mature and assured. In the
first movement there is a long
cadenza containing extensive
scale-passage work. Herbert
Spencer, summed-up the scale-
passage as “the composer run-
ning upstairs for an idea and
then running down again without
having got one,” but that cer-
tainly doesn’t apply to this
example, which .fits perfectly in
the general pattern. Miss
Kohler’s playing was masterly,
and in the Romanze which
follows, and which has as its
chief theme one of the com-
poser’s most famous melodies
for the instrument, she used a
warm and tender tone.
The symphony was the No.
40 in G Minor, one of the final
three that Mozart wrote in
those incredible six weeks in
1788. It has one of his rare veins
of melancholy, and is scored for
only strings and woodwinds.
Heinze’s sensitive reading took
due note that the symphony is
by no means unrelieved gloom ;
he succeeded brilliantly in main-
taining a fine balance between
light and shade, and he brought
from the upper strings some
beautiful effects in repose.
The Motet, “Exsultate Jubi-
late,” was sung by Glenda Ray-
mond —beautifully serene and
rich coloratura singing, with the
highest head-notes of bell-like
clarity.
& <9
Three Ballets
The Borovanskys’ fourth Syd-
ney programme opened with the
long five-part “Symphonie Fan-
fastique,” by Berlioz, with
Kiril Vassilkovsky’s choreo-
graphy cleverly capturing its
mordant spirit.
It was his unrequited passion
for the Irish actress Henrietta
Smithson, then the rage of Paris
as Ophelia, that Berlioz wrote
into his “Fantastic” Symphony.
The nightmare dreamed by a
musician who murders his be-
loved and is put to death, with
a host of Poelike characters
attending his obsequies, could
well have been the aftermath of
a midnight binge on absinthe,
but the score is a masterpiece—
the first “programme”-symphony
and the finest in French sym-
phonic literature.
The ballet, replete with
dramatic symbolism, was danced
with tremendous vigor; Yurek
Shabelewski dancing and
miming a most perceptive
version of the overwrought
musician and Peggy Sager
making a precise and graceful
Beloved. William Constable’s
decor, generally effective, was
at its best in the third scene,
dominated by the giant columns
of an ancient ruin.
“The Three Devils,” to the
sparkling music of Offenbach,
presented a comic Hell with a
benign and indulgent Lucifer
surrounded by a bevy of nifty
she-devils. The droll doings in
Hades were greatly enlivened by
an amusing portrayal of a fallen
angel by Desmond Meyers. In
the second scene, on Earth,
Kathleen Gorham danced a pert
and lively Poupette. Leon Kelle-
way was excellent as Lucifer ;
his three lieutenants, who came
back in disgrace after botching
things on Earth, were Kiril
Vassilkovsky, John Auld and
Paul Grinwis.
The exacting work in the first
two long ballets left the com-
pany short of a gallop for
“Prince Igor,” and, as a con-
sequence, this series of Polovt-
sian dances from Borodin’s
opera lacked the vitality they
should have.
S. W. K.
*2* *Z*
Maori Entertainers
Twenty - two unpretentious
Maoris have been keeping the
ushers moving at Melbourne
Town Hall, which has been
packed nightly by enthusiastic
crowds. The entertainers are a
cheerful collection of young
women and tall men in flax
skirts, and their singing and
dancing have an ease and
informality which conceal an
immense amount of practice.
The semi-naked warrior who
announced the items in a culti-
vated accent said after one that
it took 10 years to learn to do
it. He didn’t state how long it
took the elderly savage who
provided the comic relief to
acquire his paunch, a terrific
item, but his vitality was
tremendous, and when he
finally sank to the floor in comic
exhaustion he continued to
swing his poi from a recumbent
position with undiminished
vigor.
The choral work is remark-
ably subtle. Shutting one’s eyes
and listening to “Toia Mai Te
Waka Poi” one could easily
imagine one was hearing a Bach
trio, and Miss Isabel Whatarau,
introduced as the Maori Melba,
although quite untrained, justi-
fied the title with the sweet
cadences of her soft voice. A
fishing-song was particularly
lovely. The haka brought the
house down, and nearly brought
down the platform.
The famous first voyage from
Hawaiki to the Long White
Cloud was the subject of one of
the dances, and was most expres-
sive. The only detail left out
was that nobody was eaten.
»>
“The Boy Friend”
The Elizabethan Theatre
Trust and J.C.W. are presenting
this musical, by Sandy Wilson,
at the Trust’s Sydney theatre at
Newtown. The show has had
considerable success in London
and the U.S., and it looks as
though it might have been quite
a chirpy and affectionate
burlesque of the musicomedies
of the ’twenties —the days of
the Charleston, stovepipe frocks
and hats like buckets.
It gets a pretty rough going-
over in the current presentation,
however, and, except when
Marie Tysoe gets her voice
under some of the songs, when
Carl Randall does a little
stylish dancing, when Lola
Brooks manages some petulant
boop-a-dooping, and when the
whole show musters some
ragged exuberance in the last
act —except for those moments,
the predominant note is weak
and harsh, instead of mellow,
musical and kindly humorous.
♦2* ❖
“Blood Orange”
Hugh Hastings’s “Blood
Orange,” at the Metropolitan
Theatre, Sydney, is about a
youth who goes to an orchard
“some 60 miles from Sydney”
to join his father and step-
mother after being brought-up
fdr most of his life by his grand-
parents —his mother had dis-
appeared in the bush around the
orchard when he was only a
snork. 4
The father is an amiable
parent, the stepmother has a
gently vicious personality, and
there are a young hussy of a
maid and a philosophising Scot-
tish farmhand who goes on a
bender once a month to ease
some deep problem of his soul.
The play opens pleasantly
enough in an admirably con-
trived setting and, without pene-
trating to any great depth in
its characters, looks like
developing into a nostalgic
romance of childhood with
echoes of O’Neill’s “Ah, Wilder-
ness!” about it.
Then Mr. Hastings throws his
hat over the windmill and
brings in suicide, murder and
other things much too deep and
terrible for the tenor he has
established. You can’t do that
sort of thing, of course—if
you’re going for tragedy, you go
for it from the beginning and
inevitability is your theme.
If, instead of digging out dark
and gloomy secrets and using
them to blow his pleasant atmos-
phere to smithereens, Mr.
Hastings had dug up less dread-
ful things and used them to
reconcile his characters he
would have finished with what,
it appeared, he set out to do —
some pleasant sentiments about
childhood —and very pleasant
they could have been, too.
Norman Coburn as the young
fellow, Kevin Healy as his
father, Lesley Lindsay as the
stepmother, Phillip Colledge as
the Scot and Amber Mae Cecil
as the maid all did Mr. Hastings
proud until the proceedings
more-or-less blew up in their
faces.
Artbursts
Contemporary Sculpture
It can hardly be doubted, if the
point needs stressing at this date,
that the drift of contemporary
sculpture is towards cruelty, dis-
integration and meaninglessness:
in a word, degeneration. There
does not seem to have been a
major civilised mind at work in
tlie art since Rodin.
But, within that convention of
barbarism, there is no denying
the queer, hypnotic power of
Henry Moore’s “King and
Queen” —two large, bird-headed,
Aztec-like bronze figures—in the
Society of Sculptors exhibition at
David Jones’, Sydney, in which
overseas sculptures have been
included.
Nor can one exclude the possi-
bility of new forms emerging
from the melting-pot into which
stone, bronze and the literal
portrayal of reality have been
thrown. Much of the work there,
whether the twisted black steel
from Germany or Bim Hilder’s
spiralling wires and flying
wooden boomerangs from Aus-
tralia, seems merely trivial, a
kind of game on the outer rim of
art by talents that would be
better employed in practical
craftsmanship. But, though his
forms can hardly be said to differ
very much from the stylisations
which European artists have been
exploiting for 50 years, there is
a genuine feeling of life and
growth in the three pieces by
G. F. Lewers —not the least of
whose recommendations is that,
practically alone in the present
company, he has an affection for
a nice bit of stone.
Talkies
“It’s Always Fair Weather”
(M.-G.-M. theatres): M.-G.-M.
studio, whose musicals have led
the field for many years, excels
itself in this smoothly produced,
glittering songandance, in which
the accent is on the concerted
dances, which are original and
executed with great* skill, and
effortlessly. Also, rare among
musicals, it has a story that can
stand c i its own feet.
Three war-time comrades on
being demobbed make a
rendezvous for 10 years ahead.
All keep it, but the reunion is a
flop, their interests having
diverged. Then the only
bachelor of the party meets a
girl who is a TV-producer, and
the three men get caught-up in a
TV-show, the climax to which is
a scrap in which the three joy-
fully smash a few hoodlums who
have been sent to “get” the
bachelor-member, a New York
East Side fight-promoter.
The trio comprises Gene
Kelly, Dan Dailey and Michael
Kidd, which explains the excel-
lence of the dance-sequences.
There is also Cyd Gharisse,
always a neat and stylish dancer
to watch. A solo tap-dance on
roller-skates by Gene Kelly is a
gem.
The spontaneous humor is
topped-off by a glorious skit on
the baloney of commercial TV-
advertising, in which Dolores
Gray sings to a Liszt Hungarian
Rhapsody words about some-
one’s soap the banality of which
have to be heard to be believed.
&
“The Divided Heart” (Mel-
bourne Grosvenor): Michael
Balcon is entitled to two pats
on the back for this Rank pro-
duction. Coarsely handled, the
story would be boring-—a dis-
placed boy torn between his
natural and adopted mothers,
who, in terms of love and sacri-
fice, have equal rights to his
possession. It is handled with
delicacy and intelligence in the
smallest detail. Even the Nazi
robots who tramp into the lives
of all these people don’t seem
brutal, but just stupid. The
American court which is obliged
to decide to which mother to
allot the child in the name of the
law, if not justice, behaves
intelligently, and the film is so
well done and well acted that you
can sympathise with the boy,
with both mothers, with the
judges and with the lawyers.


The Steward
by
graham
phillips
EVEN the most gluttonous
of the first-class passengers
had at last ploughed
through the dinner menu.
How could they eat so much in
this heat? Getting their money’s
worth, the other stewards
claimed.
At this, the second sitting, the
five passengers Ron Malders
served were not among the
greedy ones. None the less, they
were the slowest of all. This was
because old StroganofF, the
pianist, talked such a lot and
Mrs. Alving seemed willing. to
listen for ever.
Whether he had at first been
too tired after his concert-tour
of Australia, or whether he didn’t
think the other three passengers
at his table worth talking to, old
StroganofF had eaten in silence
all the way from Fremantle to
Bombay. When Mrs. Alving
boarded the ship at Bombay,
however, this stream of talk had
begun to pour from him.
Curiously the other three
passengers had at once also
slowed-up their eating habits.
Not that they ever joined in the
talk; seldom even appeared to
listen.
Mrs. Alving was a Norwegian.
Her husband had some kind of
job as an engineer with an Indian
textile factory. Presumably a
highly-paid one. This trip she
was travelling alone. Ron
Malders had learnt this from the
other stewards as well as how
to pick out the passengers most
likely to tip well. You learned
more from listening-in to their
conversation than from what
they wore in the way of clothes
or jewels.
Mrs. Alving had let fall some
very promising snippets which
hinted at wealth. For instance,
though she spent only a month
or so of each year in London,
she kept up a little flat at
Knightsbridge.
She was about thirty-eight.
Several times Ron Malders over-
heard her say Bombay’s heat had
ruined her looks. She said this
without self-pity and without
seeming to fish for a gallant
denial. It was as though she
were merely stating an interest-
ing fact, not about herself, but
about Bombay arid its climate.
She was still pretty enough.
Perhaps the tropics had washed
some of the blue from her eyes,
but the years do that to beautiful
Norwegian ladies who stay at
home. At breakfast, with the
hot glare of the tropic morning
already streaming in through the
portholes, you could see that her
skin sagged a little. Not that she
looked tired. With a look of
having slept well she was always
first to arrive at the breakfast-
table.
r T'HE second morning out from
1 Bombay, Ron Malders made
a mistake in her order.
“Leave it. It doesn’t matter.
You have not always done this
work, have you?”
“This is my first trip. As a
steward, that is.”
“You are an Australian?”
“Yes.”
She had a knack of asking per-
sonal questions with enormous
courtesy: “You are, perhaps, a
student? You are working your
way to England?”
“No. I’ve already spent three
years in London. I was a
student.” ‘
“Of what?”
“Music. The piano.”
“Ah. Then we must arrange
for you to play for Mr. Strog-
anoff. He may be able to help
you.”
The woman must be mad.
Kind but mad. Stroganoff had
never been known to help
anyone.
“I don’t think that would do
much good,” he said.
“Perhaps you are no longer in
practice?”
“Yes. There’s a piano in the
crew’s recreation-room. Every
morning I have two hours off
after cleaning the brass. I prac-
tise then.”
She dug thoughtfully at her
grapefruit: “You practise. Then
you do mean to go on with
music?”.
“No, I can’t go back to
music. Practising is just a habit.
Coffee now or later?”
And at that moment, full of
Continental good-humor, old
Stroganoff had arrived and
Spared Ron explanations of the
mess he’d made of things.
Even before Mrs. Alving came
aboard, Ron Malders had
detested Stroganoff. Was it the
hatred of a failure for a success-
ful man? No, he honestly didn’t
think so. The old man himself
could hardly consider he was
any longer much of a pianist.
Made-up half the notes as he
went along. Looked marvellous,
of course. Silver hair and arms
flying all over the place.
The old man was decent
enough if Ron made a mistake
with his order, too. Why this
feeling that he’d like to tip soup
over him? Perhaps he hated
everybody these days. Have to
cure himself of that.
Certainly since Mrs. Alving
had taken such a fancy to the
old pianist Ron’s soup-spilling
fantasies had increased. He now
wished he’d never pestered the
chief-steward into being allowed
to wait at the old man’s table.
He had not hoped to gain any-
thing by it. He was merely
curious to see what the old man
talked about.
And what did he talk about?
The fine points of playing
bridge! How he’d once beaten
Leschetisky at billiards.
They finished dinner at last.
He watched the old man escort
Mrs. Alving past the gilt pillars
and potted palms. The decor
of the dining-room belonged to
the 1920’5. Yet Stroganoff had
already been old when this ship
was launched.
DON cleared the table in a
AV hurry and shot the dirty
plates in to the washing-up
blokes. Then he went into the
scullery to wash-up the silver,
part of the stewards’ job.
As usual, a couple of the
Lascar seamen were sitting on the
scullery-floor eating rice and
what looked like rotten fish.
They ate with bare hands,
utterly ignoring him, as they
usually did white seamen.
The food reminded him that,
earlier during dinner, he had
slipped a plate of chicken down
to his cabin. Many of the boys
did this instead of eating in the
crew’s mess. You just ordered
something, draped a napkin over
it, and, instead of turning left
into the saloon, turned right and
down the gangway to the crew’s
quarters.
Wearily he now made his way
down to the eight-berth cabin.
The crew’s quarters were almost
exactly in the centre of the ship,
low down near the waterline,
the first-class part of the ship
towering deck upon deck above
them.
He dislikecf the seven with
whom he shared the cabin. But
he did his best not only to hide
this aversion, but to stop feeling
it altogether. These were decent
enough boys he worked with.
It wasn’t their fault if he’d
mucked up his life.
Because of the slight swell in
the Arabian Sea, the portholes
were shut. Most of the men had
stripped to their underpants. The
place reeked. He was reminded
that his only real reason for
not liking some of the other
stewards was that, despite the
heat, they showered so seldom.
By Australian standards,
young Donovan was the only
clean one among them. Rich
young lady - passengers were
sometimes secretly smitten with
Donovan’s good looks. They
came unsmitten very quickly,
however, the moment they heard
him speak in the dialect of some
obscure county, seeming to
articulate with his tonsils. Any-
how, little worth the saying
emerged from beneath that head
of careful curls. Stretched on his
upper bunk, reading a paper-
back novel, he didn’t look down
when Ron Malders came in.
In the centre of the cabin was
a trestle-table bearing seven
bottles of beer and the plate of
chicken Ron had brought down
earlier.
Dufty, a middle-aged steward,
sat beside the plate of chicken
darning a black sock.
Ron shifted the chicken to the
far end of the table. As he did
so, he averted his eyes from the
fat belly which jutted over
Dufty’s grubby white shorts.
Dufty nodded, affably
enough: “Late again.”
“Yes.” Ron struggled out of
his white waiter’s coat. Though
clean on that morning, it was
already almost as dirty as Dufty’s
shorts.
For the tropics they were
issued with white uniforms.
These looked cool; but that was
as far as it went. In Ron’s
opinion their starch-sealed pores
made them hotter than the serge
uniforms reserved for more
wintry seas. To make things
harder, you had for ever to be
slogging down to the laundry in
the ship’s stern with a jacket
mysteriously turned grey after
only a couple of hours’ wear.
And when the ship docked at
Tilbury, both the price of the
uniforms and the cost of launder-
ing them would be docked from
his pay. Well,.well. Better if he
could start hating the company
instead of the people around
him.
"LTE grabbed a towel and
mopped the sweat from his
back. Then he stood under one
of the blowers that puffed tepid
air into the cabin. He arched his
back and let the airstream dry
the sweat from the mat of black
hair on his chest.
Dufty looked up from his
sock. This was his thirty-second
round-trip to Australia, and he
lost no chance of dishing out
accumulated wisdom to prove it.
“You’ll catch cold doing that.”
Ron managed a tolerant grin
and went on airing himself.
Dufty was hurt: “I knew a
bloke who died through doing
that. Slept all night under the
blower.”
“Well I’m not going to sleep
under it. Won’t be going to
sleep at all unless things cool
down a bit.”
“They won’t. Not till we’re
through the Suez.”
Ron removed himself from the
draught and pushed his plate on
to a corner of the table where
it would catch the air-draught
instead. He preferred food stone-
cold to lukewarm.
“Whose beer?” he asked. He
knew Dufty was too mean to
have bought it.
“Number-six’s. They’re bring-
ing the gramophone in later.”
Why bother to bring it in?
Number-six was the next cabin.
You could hear every note
through the steel partition.
And at that moment, the
ancient machine —bought duty-
free at Aden —wheezed into life.
He knew for a fact that they
owned stacks of records; but
they seemed for ever to be play-
ing the same'one:,.
Rose, Rose, / love you,
With an a-a-a-aching heart..-..
Well, well. That was one piece
of music he’d never forget. Trot
that out at Wigmore Hall and
see how they liked it!
He dragged on a fresh pair
of shorts and the striped cotton
jacket, like an Army giggle-
jacket, they wore to clean the
brass in the mornings. He’d
shower before bed. Leaving the
chicken to get on with its con-
gealing, he went round to the
canteen.
“Two bottles of beer. A tin
of Players, please.”
The bloke in charge knew by
now what he liked; silently
handed over a couple of bottles
of Bass. A thick, heavy brew.
Ron Malders was almost the
only member of the crew who
drank it regularly.
He himself didn’t go much (Mi
the taste. But it made you
drunker for your money. The
low price of grog and cigarettes
struck him as the only advantage
of life at sea.
r>ACK in the cabin, he drank
** one of the "bottles quickly,
tossing down a glass at a time.
The glow that followed made it
possible to face the food. He
was able to get down the second
bottle by taking it more slowly.
“How’s the big romance
going?” Dufty asked. “You
know: old Russianguts and the
blonde.”
“Talk, talk, talk. That’s all.
Trouble is, all my other bloods
are listening-in. Slowed up the
whole table since Bombay.”
He had not got used to the
nickname for passengers and
felt self-conscious using it. Why
were they called bloods?
Because you bled them for a
tip when you got to port? The
best of them didn’t bleed too
hard: £5 was pretty good! £5
for serving 105 meals and 52
afternoon-teas. Sea-sickness per-
mitting.
Dufty said: “She usually
teams-up with somebody. That’s
when ’er ’usband isn’t with ’er.”
“Is he often with her?”
“Only twice. To my know-
ledge, like.”
“What’s he like?”
“Very nice. I was on their
table once. Gave me the biggest
tip I’ve ever got. Fifteen-
pounds. Fifteen sterling; not
Australian.”
“Is he . . . older than she is?”
“Yes. Some say he has a
wooden leg. He walks sort of
stiff like.”
Ron picked up a bone of his
chicken with one hand. Some
of the birds had been frozen
throughout half-a-dozen trips
across the world and back.
There was a division of opinion
whether this made them tougher.
Dufty looked askance at Ron.
Fingers! Dufty was genteel. Out
of devilment Ron started to use
both hands at once on the
chicken-bone. “What do you
mean by ‘she teams up with
somebody’?” he asked.
“Oh, I just mean she sits round
on deck with them, goes to the
dances and that sort of thing.”
Ron finished-off his chicken.
Number six and their gramo-
phone still hadn’t arrived. To
escape them he decided to go up
on deck.
As he was going out, Dufty


ili
mm-
*■ m
L
ASK FOR
MOTHERS!
be sure
IT’S “STAMINA”
... because Stamina tunics
are scientifically stronger . ..
made to take extra years of
rugged, school-time wear and
tear . . . made stronger,
tougher, better, with an extra
wide hem so the tunic can
grow with the girl.
And, like all Stamina clothes,
these attractive tunics are
cut from the very finest, all-
wool worsted material ob-
tainable in Australia cloth
woven from top-quality pure
Australian Merino wool.
Available in a full range of
sizes, and priced from 62/- to
112/6d., Stamina,school tun-
ics cost much less and last
much longer.
And, girls remember, there is a
free, special gift packet of those
famous “Women of Stamina” cards
in the pocket of every tunic. It is
put there just for you.
The Stamina label means guaranteed
goodness.
CLOTHES
Stamina
SCHOOL TUNICS
[ED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
ST 1.113
said: “She usually gives a party
in her cabin before the end of the
trip. She always gets the table-
steward to serve drinks.”
'T'HE crew’s deck was at the
nose of the ship. Getting to
it you had the feeling of going
on a two-mile walk.
At one point the corridor
passed a sort of big cage. This
was formed by poles which
enclosed a hatch-cover and
several poles had been removed
so that you could enter the cage
and look up at the sky. Some
Lascar seamen had taken up
residence in there. They looked
impassively at him as he passed.
At last he came to the steel
steps that led up to the deck,
and came out into the cool
Arabian night.
To Ron, the hush at the ship’s
prow still seemed unnatural. He
had first travelled to England as
a tourist-class passenger, hedged
off at the stem. There, the
vibration of the propeller-shaft
had come to seem a part of sea-
life. The endless vibration was
still joined in his memory with
the high hopes with which he’d
set out.
He stepped carefully round
the black shapes of men already
asleep on the deck. They chose
to be drenched with dew rather
than stew all night in the cabins’
hot stink. Ron would have joined
them only that before dawn
Lascar seamen came round with
hoses to sluice the decks. Those
lying there would then pick up
their blankets and sleepwalk
down to their cabins for another
half-hour’s slumber.
He sat on some metal con-
traption, beside the black outline
of a canvas-covered donkey-
engine, and lit a cigarette. He
looked up at the alien stars.
Somewhere between the last
beer in Fremantle and the first
in Colombo the Southern Cross,
having sunk low in the sky, had
dived into the Indian Ocean.
The flying-fish had also been
left behind. Whatever Kipling
might have thought about the
matter, there were none between
here and Mandalay. Flying-fish,
of all things, reminded him of
his father. He had been a
minister, and given to searching
for unusual themes on which to
build sermons. Once he’d drawn
profound parallels with the
flying-fish’s brief flight and
return to the sea.
On Ron’s first trip, one fish
had shown more /enterprise.
Through a porthole near the
waterline it had flown aboard.
And it had landed in, of all
places, the tourist-class ladies’
lavatories! Arthur, the tourists’
barman, had hung it among the
liqueurs at the back of his bar.
Funny thing, he’d spent ‘a lot
of time at that bar; but even
in the Red Sea the fish hadn’t
started to pong.
Ron looked at his watch; the
only valuable he hadn’t pawned
before he left London. Ten-to-
ten. Clocks would be pul back
an hour at midnight. That made
it only ten-to-nine. He decided
to go down to bed, anyway.
The party would still be going,
but the stupid routine of life at
sea had numbed his brain into
an ability to drop off to sleep
easily.
■pACH day began with a job
which everybody disliked.
They had to lug cases of beer
from the hold to the bar four
or five decks above. Ron thought
that, sweating with their loads
up the steep, narrow stairs, they
looked like a chain-gang of
slaves. “Why can’t we use the
lift?” somebody would always
whine.
There was a lift for first-class
passengers, and there did indeed
seem no reason why the beer
shouldn’t be stacked and sent
up in it. It wouldn’t worry the
passengers; only a couple of
eccentrics were up so early.
At breakfast, the Russian
pianist was in a vile temper. His
black eyebrows, which con-
trasted so oddly with his silver
hair, snaked angrily down as
he told Mrs. Alving the cause
of his annoyance.
“Last night I am playing the
piano in the lounge and the
steward asks me to stop.”
Evidently Mrs. Alving had
gone to bed early, for it was
the first she’d heard of it. Her
blue eyes looked incredulous.
“The steward must have made a
mistake. What is the piano there
for if people are not to play it?”
“No. The steward did not
make a mistake. He said ‘l’m
very sorry, sir. I’m instructed to
tell you some of the passengers
are complaining. They don’t like
to hear the same piece over and
over.’ ”
Mrs. Alving suspended opera-
tions on her grapefruit. “Were
there many people in the
lounge?”
“No. Everybody was playing
those wooden racehorse things
last night. There were only
those three old ladies in purple
dresses.”
“Well, Benno, some of these
people are very ignorant. I
wouldn’t worry about it. It will
probably do you good not to
practise for a bit.”
“Nice. Very nice. And what
about my concert two days after
I get back to London? Stroganoff
is an old man. He can manage
with very little practice ; but he
can’t manage with none at all.”
“Wait now, Benno.” Though
the pianist was twice her age,
Mrs. Alving succeeded in looking
motherly. “I have an idea.”
Stroganoff held that hot foods
kept the body cool; had there-
fore chosen to breakfast on
porridge since they arrived in the
tropics, Ron already had this and
Mrs. Alving’s laxative cereal
lined-up, so had overheard the
talk. He was ready when Mrs.
Alving turned her gold head
and blue eyes to summon him.
She usually avoided calling
him either by name or title, tact-
fully hinting that he was, if not
a social equal, at least someone
whom she was too sensitive to
treat as a run - of - the - mill
steward. Now, however, she was
more patronising. Perhaps she
was nervous.
“Steward, didn’t you tell me
there’s a piano somewhere in
the crew’s part of the ship?”
“Yes, madam.”
“When you play in the morn-
ings are there many people
about?”
“No. Almost nobody goes to
the pig at that time.”
“The pig!”
“The recreation-room.”
“Oh! Well, do you think Mr.
Stroganoff could play there
for an hour each morning?
Would it interfere with you?”
For some reason, Ron felt
resentful.
“I’m sorry, madam. Passengers
aren’t allowed in crew’s
quarters.”
Stroganoff didn’t even raise
his head. He went on tucking
into his porridge as though the
whole thing had nothing to do
with him. But Mrs. Alving per-
sisted. Clearly she was in the
habit of getting her own way.
She dropped the patronising
manner.
“Isn’t there someone we
could see?” Unexpectedly, she
leaned towards him across the
table and almost whispered :
“You know, I’d so much like to
hear you play, too.”
Ron knew this was flattery;
but feminine flattery was a rare
pleasure in his life.
“I’ll see the chief-steward,” he
said. “I think I can fix it.”
Stroganoff went on with his
porridge.
FOR once, the chief-steward
felt in the mood to help.
Usually he did nothing except
for money; but it flattered his
vanity to help so famous a man.
Ron found the pianist and
Mrs. Alving and told them he’d
fixed it. Mrs. Alving tactfully
left: she was too wise to barge
in on the practice-session.
Ron steered the old man
through the steel corridors to
the crew’s recreation-room at
the ship’s nose. It was devoted
to only one recreation beer.
Its slanting walls were decorated
with rivets. It was stuffy. Green
seas rushed past almost level with
the closed portholes.
Stroganoff showed neither sur-
prise nor distaste at the mess and
the platoons of empty beer-
bottles. He made straight for
the old German upright. Its
keys were yellow where the
ivories still adhered, blue-black
where they hadn t. There were
cigarette-burns on the wood at
the bass and treble ends.
“That chair all right for you?”
Ron asked.
“Perfectly, thanks.” And the
Old warrior planked himself
down on the battered oak
dining-chair with its broken
rUngS '
He raised his hands to the
keys, then suddenly took them
away again. He turned and
Sn “T’m ,?!??? T can finH
mv al wi htr fi
my own way oacK
Ron listened outsi e the door
f "tonTTke 6 ' a bul
Lw it sounded like a B fryini-pan
with a difference. What was the
old man practising? Sounded
like a Weber sonata.
He had almost finished polish-
ing the brass rails of the main
staircase when he heard Mrs.
Alving’s voice behind him.
“Are you nearly finished? I
wondered if you could play to
me this morning.”
“I’m nearly finished,” he said,
“but we’d better not interrupt
Mr. Stroganoff. He seemed to
want to be alone.”
“Mr. Stroganoff came up on
deck ten minutes ago. He says
fi’ s tQO t 0 p rac fise any more.”
Ron coHected hjs
ninths “Yps The Red Sea’s
certai nly no' place for piano-
practice People don ’t realise:
f fs almost as hard work as
road _ mend i ng .”
She too ienored the litter in
’recreation room Rather
* e lish [X “™an of her age
sM y on one of (he deal tab | c <?
“Now, what will you play me?
When I was a little girl I used
to play the Sonata Path&ique.”
“Everybody learns that ” he
said Sank'heaven
want Grieg. He couldn't bear
Norwegians who wanted Grieg.
tie played some Scarlatti. The
tinny piano gave it almost an
authentic harpsichord - effect,
Then he charged into Beet-
hoven’s last piano sonata, the
Opus 111. It didn’t come off too
well, and he was dripping with
sweat when he finished the first
movement,
To his surprise, Stroganoff was
sitting beside Mrs. Alving’s table,
He must have tiptoed in while
he was playing,
“Don’t you know young men
must never play late Beethoven?”
Stroganoff asked. He ashed his
cigarette and suddenly smiled :
Oh, yes. You play it well
enou 8 h - But c yj tics al .w a ys say
young men can t play it. That s
what matters,
He turned to Mrs. Alving:
“ Well > Regina, I think they will
be servin S ice-cream on deck,
Let us go up ”
Ron had the feeling she didn't
want to go.
He didn’t go ashore at Aden,
The great red cliffs which
surrounded and threatened the
town depressed him. And he had
not much money to spend,
,„ , c
up the Red S ,
the ship became a luxury
floating-furnace. More people
hung round the bar waiting for
it to open in the morning,
others could be overheard
(
(Continued on page 34)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
Turkey eggs
by old mae
IT was not a futile scare-
crow, without any maturing
crop to guard, that stood
in the frozen attitude of a
vigil-keeping guardsman with
rake for rifle, among the still,
dead leaves on the gravel path.
That almost brimless once-
black “caubeen,” those faded
old dungarees and Crimean
shirt, so patched and tattered
that they suggested mouldy
plaster walls, shedding their
many layers of varicolored
paper, and those cracked grey
Cossack boots, with their
“bunion-breather” slits, were
just the “comfortable workin’
clobber” of that bent and
shrunken Irish giant Michael
Geoghan.
Once “the pride and the pest
of the parish,” he had lost the
old skills and capacities of the
breaking-in yard, athletic-field
and prize-ring, concert-platform
and dance-floor, billiard-room
and bar-room, and though his
Irish blue eyes could still
twinkle and his tongue had not
lost all its blarney, the once
high-stepping “Madcap
Michael” had withered into a
shuffling old “Mumbling Mick.”
As a little breeze rustled the
leaves at his feet, man and rake
came suddenly to fife, and as
he raked he sang, in a thin
quivering ghost-echo of his old
ringing tenor:
“A man out of Derry gave Father
O’Leary
A small cow of Kerry wid milk
for his dairy,
A little whoite pail and a little
brown churn.
‘ ’Tis in Derry,’ says he, ‘they
have money to burn.’
“Money to burn, is it? And
me widout a rid cint in me pants
to be payin’ for even the smell
of a cork and divil a bit of tick
come pinchen day to be got out
of old Skin-a-flea Livingstone
Levinsohn it used to be at The
Harp of Erin. Harp of Erin, is
it? Harp of Judah more likely,
and it’s him they should be
hangin’ on a bloody weepin’
willa tree! ”
I was used to Mick’s mumb-
ling and grumbling, and it was
pleasant to relax there in the
garden at Old Cheribon in the
half-shade of the big poinciana,
my gammy legs resting on the
long arms of the big squatter’s-
chair. The low table beside
me held a black bottle, some
glasses, a basket of aromatic,
thin-skinned fresh West Indian
limes and a bowl of mill-white
sugar, the water bag hanging
from a cup-hook under the
table.
The air was full of the scent
of flowering shrubs, trees and
creepers, gardenia and frangi-
pani, quisqualis and stepha-
notis, but not stocks or mignon-
ette. No “green fingers” now
to set out and tend the annuals
in the “herbaceous borders,” as
Margaret used to call them, but
the petals of the sweet-scented
damask roses that she loved
fell gently among the violets on
the green mound in her little
railed-in plot overlooking the
maidenhair-fern gully by the
creek.
Clouds of many - colored
butterflies undulated above the
blue duranta hedge and the sweet
and shrill voices of many little
nectar-loving and insect-eating
birds mingled with the hum of
bees savage black English
beauties from the “sugar-bags”
in hollow trees on the Blood-
wood Flat, and blonde lady-
like Italians from Maidstone’s
“skeps”—against a background
of man-made noises from “The
New Mill” half-a-mile down the
creek.
AXICK, augmenting his meagre
IYX “pi nc hen” by pretending to
tidv-up the garden, and suppos-
edly busy with rake or broom,
added his quota to the murmur
of bees, stopping every few
minutes to come over and
inquire, “Do ye remimber the
toime . . . ?” He had re-
membered that it was my birth-
day—l was lucky that it was
not my death-day anniversary,
too —and he had brought me a
present of half-a-dozen of his
wife’s precious turkey eggs.
“She wants to sit thim, but
I tell her thim sparra-harks and
goose-harks will be after des-
troyin’ all the chicks and me too
old to be runnin’ found wid a
gun after harks or kangaroos or
alligathers or pol—would ye
remimber old ‘Turkey Eggs’
Turner?”
Yes, I remembered “Turkey
Eggs,” and Mick’s many exploits
with guns and other things that
earned the young spalpeen of a
fella a reputation that was a
mixed - grill of fame and
notoriety.
“A man of the Curragh gave
Father O’Leary
A young chestnut filly wid
temper contrairy—
‘Sure,’ his Riverence says, ‘it’s
a very small voice
For a Curragh-bred lepper. She’s
chape at the proice .’
“They’re all the same, thim
flighty ginger-haired wans, horses
or women. Ye niver know
where ye are wid ’em. Would
ye remimber that Rob Roy
gilding of MacDonald’s? Old
Mac was no rough-rider, but
divil a bit of bother he iver
had wid that one. But, while lots
of flash young fellas rid him out
of the paddock, divil a wan o’
thim iver rode him home again.
And as for women! . . . Well,
I’d better be gettin’ on wid me
job and not be after wastin’ me
toime listenin’ to yer plisant con-
versation.
“A Waterford man gave to
Father O’Leary
A bird, ’twas half pay-cock and
three part canary,
A brave goulden l phisant, that
out in Japan
The Mik-a-do gave to the Water-
ford man.
“Speakin’ of phisants, did ye
hear thim swampies this marnin’,
wid their ‘Hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo?’
It will be a sign of rain I dunno.”
And he went back to his
raking.
Oh, yes, I remembered the time
when, according to Mick, men
were men and horses were horses
and redheaded barmaids were
unexpectedly pugnacious virgins,
as Mick found out when “Mary-
go-mad” in the bar of The
Horse and Jockey laid him out
cold “wid as dirthy a lift as
John L. Sullivan’s as quick as
spit in me eye.”
And the alleged raking and
singing went on:— t
“A mountainy man gave to
Father O’Leary
Potheen from the still of a little
brown fairy —
Heather honey, yid eggs from a
little brown hin.
‘There is wisdom,’ says he, 'at
the mountainy min.’
“And speakin’ of potheen, do
you? . . .”
“And speaking of potheen,
Mick, will you come and help
yourself?”
Often enough I had heard the
story of the still down the well
and Mick’s narrow escapes
from Sergeant Mahony’s brace-
lets, and perhaps the hangman’s
noose —“and me waitin’ there
wid me gun cocked and the
interferin’ old b creepin’
past widin twinty feet o’ me, but
he was a dacent old cove for all
the long nose of him, and I
would have been sorry if any-
thing had happened to the poor
ould b
He would indeed.
A FTER dealing four
neat, Mick had just
wiped his eyes with his old
sweat-rag when the side-gate
clicked and my old chief, Jock,
or “Bilers,” Meldrum came
through from the stable-yard.
Off seventy, but still a com-
pact nugget of a man, with close-
cropped white hair and neatly
trimmed beard and moustache,
he wore the old-timers’ rig of
cabbage-tree hat with blue and
white bird’s - eye puggaree,
galatea-striped shirt with loosely
knotted bird’s-eye scarf, crease-
less white moleskin pants, black
elastic-sided boots and snake-
skin belt, with its array of leather-
pouches for watch, knife, pipe
and pocket-book, his shirt-
pocket bulging with a self-closing
screw - necked rubber ’backy-
pouch and the corner of another
bird’s-eye square peeping out
from a trouser-pocket.
A bit creaky in the joints,
needing “a wee drappy ile there,
laddie,” but with his own old
b’ilers still generating a pretty
good head of steam, he had
remembered the date and had
ridden over to have a yarn with
his old mate. It was on this day
many years before that he had
beaten undertaker and grave-
digger by stopping the bleeding
when that damned ’fugal* burst
and shattered my legs.
“The doctor said ’e done a
real good job.” What old
Mcßurney did say, as he care-
fully unwrapped the chief’s
bandages, was “H’m, all ship-
shape and Bristol fashion, eh!
Worm and parcel with the lay,
turn and serve the other way.
No, damme if it isn’t a neat
job of engineer’s lagging. Good
work, Chief! You make a
nice little cocoon, young feller,
but thanks to the chief, you
won’t be sprouting wings just
yet.”
Old “Bilers’ ” sight was not
as good as it used to be when
he’d spot a pinhead of rust at
twenty-feet, but his little mare
Gitana, a bit long in the tooth,
but still as sure-footed as her
beautiful Arab granddam of
that name, knew every stump
and stone on the track, as the
old chief had known every
gauge and gasket, every belt and
pulley, and the emery-cloth’s
watered-silk pattern on every
shining piston-rod, connecting-
rod and crank in “The Old Mill.”
He would have a wee nip
from the black bottle, the real
Mackay, from well-matured
Palms molasses, distilled by
Thompson at the Alexandra.
“It’s no’ like the Old Glenlivet,
but nothing better e’er came oot
o’ Jamaiky.”
Yes, he would stay to lunch
as usual. Even though he might
be a wee bit drowsy in the warm
afternoon, with a couple more
rums under his snake-skin belt,
little Gitana would see him
safely home. Half-asleep in the
saddle he would still keep his
balance, or Gitana would keep
it for him. To anyone not
familiar with the set-up, their
progress was like a circus-turn,
with the little mare side-step-
ping “gee” and whoa” without
instructions from voice, rein or
knee, as clever as a clown balanc-
ing a peacock-feather on his
nose.
Yes, he would stay for lunch,
but he would not like a couple
of nice fresh turkey-eggs. He
knew there were turkeys and
turkeys, but the mere thought
of turkey-eggs still made him a
bit queasy after all these years,
and he took another wee nip to
settle his subsiders.
A LL these years, since the so-
called naughty ’nineties,
when there were a not-so-
naughty handful of us in the
bachelors’ quarters on Old
Cheribon, the bookkeeper, store-
keeper, field-overseers, engineers
and what not, all “blanky new-
chums” getting what was called
“colonial experience.” Jock Mel-
drum was the daddy of the
group, and “Gay” ffoulkes with
his parlor-tricks and culchawed
accent was our social lion ; but
Turner was the scholar.
“Prof.” Turner, we called him,
before the turkey-eggs episode.
Pushed out of Cambridge and
a distinguished career byjhe fog
on his chest, he had read a lot
about Australia before coming
out, and it wasn’t his fault that
he had to unlearn such a lot.
One hot Sunday morning a
few of us went down to the
river for a bogy. None of
us could swim then —just as
well, as it happened—so we
skylarked about in the shallows
below the “alligator pool.”
The Prof, collected specimens
of aquatic life into a billycan
and got a bit more experience
when a big eel poked its head
out from under the rock he sat
on and got its teeth into a dang-
ling big-toe. Jamie Telford had
brought out his salmon-fishing
gear and “soaked the minnow,”
a six-inch blue phantom, spin-
ning from a rock at the foot of
the big pool.
After a few casts he hooked
a fair-sized palmer—baramundi
they call it now —and it ran out
about fifty-yards of line before
there was a sudden stop, a ter-
rific jerk that nearly ducked
young Jamie, and -he was wind-
ing in the slack of a broken line.
“What happened, Jamie? How
did you lose him?”
“Some miickle brute of a fush
bit me off. Couldna be a sharrk
up here in the fresh water, could
there?”
“Not at all lakelay; it must
have been a giant palmah, or
bai Jove, I know —an alligatah!”
“Alligator be blowed!” said
the Prof. “What I mean to say,
or rather, no crocodile has been
seen in this part of the river for
many years. It must have been
a palmer, Lates calcarifer, the
giant perch.”
Just then there was a call from
Walter Price-Jones, who had
disappeared in the scrub. “Hey,
will you all come now and have
a look at this?”
We found him standing on
top of a large mound. “What
price Jones, our tidy little pussy-
cat! Noble effort, me lad!”
“What is it? Aboriginal
burial - place? Ceremonial
mound?”
“Cannibal . . .”
“No, you silly asses.” said
Turner. “We’re really very
fortunate to find it It’s the
nesting-mound of Tallegallus
lay (something or other), one of
the Megapodice, a family of
mound-building birds found
only”. . . he had it off pat from
one of his books. . . “commonly
known as the brush-turkey.”
“Scrub-turkey, you mean! ”
“Well, I mean to say, the book
says . .
“Likely to be any eggs in
it?”
All hands started to grope in
the hot-bed. Lots of eggs,
queer - looking things; you
couldn’t tell t’other end from
which, and they felt queer, but
they were eggs, and we had not
seen an egg for weeks. In next
to no time the Prof.’s specimens
were dumped and the billy
boiled. The eggs broke queerly,
and to complaints that they
tasted queer Turner replied
thlat it was because of the lack
of buttered toast and salt and
pepper.
Being the youngest, I was
last on the list, and I was just
fishing my two out of the billy
when “Bilers” exploded.
“Ma Goad! Will ye see to
this! A bluidy leezard in ma
aig!”
“Lizard? Bai Jove, it’s a
demned alligatah! They’re alli-
gatah eggs. Turnah, you awful
bally ass, we’ll give you turkey-
eggs. Oooach!”
TV'ONE of them needed tartar-
' emetic or mustard-and-
water, and it was just as well
that their clean shirts and white
moleskins were well out of the
way. It was some minutes be-
fore “Turkey Eggs” had re-
covered enough to recall another
of his gems of knowledge.
“Crocodilus porosus, the
estuarian crocodile . . , The
female of the species guards
her eggs jealously during the in-
cubatory period and will not
hesitate . . .”
We did not hesitate either,
and “pefore a man would pe
saying ‘Llanfair’ . . .” we were
all up the bank, leaving nothing
behind but Turner’s old nick-
name and reputation—nothing
else that mattered, anyway.
He tried to make amends by
borrowing a Martini-Henry and
some cartridges from young
Jim Carney, who, all five-feet-
five of him, without the spiked
helmet, was in the volunteers,
and he spent a few breakfastless
mornings on the lookout, but
only once did he sight “yon
bluidy hen-olligetterr” as
“Bilers” called her, and had a
shot, at a discreet hundred-
yards range.
“No, I don’t think I hit her,
but I must have given her an
awful fright. I mean to say she
went off the bank like . . . like
a shot.”
Young Jim and his rifle went
off “to fight the shearers” (God
help them!) and a big rise in the
river took “hen” and eggs out
to sea, and that was the end of
that show.
“Turkey Eggs” got used in
time to his new label, but he
never got rid of it, and “Bilers
—well, you understand why he
was sucking sour juicy lime,
dipped in sugar, to get rid of
“Yon awfu’ taste that still comes
back on me.”
• y’ remimber . . .?” says
Mick.
“Yes, we all remembered too
damned much. Hand me those
crutches, Chief, and we g°
in and have a bite of lunch.
* Centrifugal sugar-drier.


- ;
Wmm fH
’■MiMwm- m msmimmm
mm
mm
m
Holden has all the features
that mean most to you
Because Holden is designed and
built specifically for Australian
conditions, no other car combines
all its advantages at stich low cost.
For from £B7O plus sales tax, Holden gives
you a 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. engine; out-
standing economy (30 m.p.g. is reported by
many owners); proven dependability and
low maintenance costs; Australia-wide
availability of spare parts; high resale
value; clean good looks and comfort for a
family of six.
Ever since Holden was first produced,
hundreds of owners have written spon-
taneous letters of satisfaction.
From Armadale, W.A., Air. H. M.
Paterson wrote:
I feel you are justly entitled to this
little note of my experience over nearly
70,000 miles of very pleasurable motoring ...
The car has been over a large part of our
country roads and tracks and has given
unfailing satisfaction under all conditions . . .
The car is driven hard all the year round,
and one of its most pleasing features has been
its capacity to retain performance without
continual tinkering and adjustment. ..
I know of nothing within £5OO to £6OO of the
price to equal my Holden for all round
performance and safety .on any road . .
More Australians buy Holden than any
other make simply because Holden offers
the best value for money there is on the
Australian car market.
The demand for Holden continues to be
heavy , so may we suggest that you place
your order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN *
Australia's Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS TAX
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
•Convenient GMAC hire purchase
arrangements are available.
•“Air Chief” car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
L 155
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
The Cage in othens
by John
Heltherington
SUMMER had come early
that year. Snow still lay
deep on the ridges of the
northern mountains, but
already in Athens the March
days pulsed with heat.
Many of the men taking the
early sunshine in Stadium-street
were coatless ; the women wore
light frocks, and most of them
were bare-legged. You would
have thought that war was far
away, except for the occasional
Army-truck that rumbled past
or the sight of a knot of strolling
soldiers, British, Australian, New
Zealand, or Greek.
We turned down a side-street.
Its cobbled road-surface was
empty for the moment of
wheeled-traffic or pedestrians.
“Let’s try this joint,” said
Harry, the infantry-corporal.
He headed across the side-
walk toward a single-fronted
shop, with the name Cafe
Wavell painted on the window.
The lettering was newly done.
I guessed the cafe-owner had
altered the name in hurried
tribute to the British
Commander - in - Chief. The
window was empty but for a
sad aspidistra in a red earthen-
ware-pot and two paper flags
pasted inside the glass; one was
a Union Jack, the other the
blue-and-white flag of Greece.
We went through the tinkling
curtain of beaded strings that
masked the doorway. The air
was cooler inside, though still
warm, and the subdued light was
soothing after the sun’s glare.
The cafe was no more than a
long, narrow room, with a row
of marble-topped tables and
straight-backed wooden chairs
set along one wall. There was a
high marble-topped counter at
the far end. The counter sup-
ported a tall nickel coffee-urn,
a bewildering mechanism of taps
and intertwined pipes, and
behind the counter there were
wall-shelves holding bottles.
Harry and I sat down at a
table, facing one another. I
took off my cap and slid it
under the chair, and Harry
pushed his Digger-hat to the
back of his head. Sweat glinted
in the shallow gutter across his
forehead where the band of the
hat had rested. His throat under
the open-necked shirt and his
arms below the rolled shirt-
sleeves were burned a strong
shade of luminous brown.
A waiter came toward us from
behind the counter. He moved
without haste, limping almost
imperceptibly. He halted beside
our table, a small desiccated man
wearing a black lustre-coat, dark
trousers, a whitish shirt, and a
floppy black bow-tie. He was
narrow - shouldered, and his
veined brown hands had large
knuckles. Strands of dark hair,
greying, had been carefully
brushed across his bald scalp.
“Coffee?” he asked.
“Yeah,” Harry said. “Coffee,
an’ ... You talk English?”
The waiter nodded.
“All right,” said Harry. “An’
some of that rotgut you call . . .
What d’ y’ call that stuff tastes
like aniseed?”
“Ouzo,” said the waiter.
“Ouzo,” said Harry. “Two
ouzos.”
The waiter walked at the same
unhurried gait to the back of
the cafe. He fetched two small
cups and saucers from below the
counter and ran coffee into them
from the urn, then reached a
bottle from the shelves behind
him and measured colorless
liquid from it into two glasses.
He returned to us, carrying the
cups of coffee and the glasses
on a tray; each of the glasses
held an inch or so of the color-
less liquid. He set the cups and
glasses before us, but did not
move away.
T TASTED my coffee. It was
a species of Turkish coffee,
strong and hot and richly sweet.
“0.K.?” he asked.
“0.K.,” said Harry. “What
do I owe you?” It was his turn
to shout.
The waiter told him, and
Harry passed him some money.
The waiter was turning away,
when Harry asked him,
“Where’d you learn English,
sport?”
The waiter came back. “The
States.”
“You there long?”
“About fifteen-year.”
“Why’d you come back
here?” Harry was one of those
men with an insatiable curiosity
about everybody they chance to
meet.
“I wan’ed t’ see my family.”
“Why didn’t you take them to
America?”
The waiter smiled for the first
time. “No money,” he said. “I
always reckoned t’ make enough
for their fares, but I never got
a bank.” He shrugged. “I
liked the States.”
Harry asked, “What’s your
name?”
“Paul,” the waiter said.
“All right, Paul,” said Harry.
“Have a drink with us.”
“I’ll take coffee,” Paul said.
“Can’t drink that other stuff
these days.” He pointed at his
stomach, with a comical gesture
of distaste. “Maybe I drunk
too much hard liquor when I
was a young fella!”
He went to the counter and
drew himself a small cup of
coffee and walked back to our
table with it. Harry solemnly
handed him a ten-drachmae note.
Paul slipped it into his trousers-
pocket.
“Good luck,” he said, and
sipped his coffee. Then:
“You guys Australians?”
“Yes,” said Harry. “Don’t
you like Australians?”
Paul smiled with his dark
eyes. “Sure,” he said. “I like
ever’body. Most fellas is about
the same once you get t’ know
them. That’s what I find.”
“You like Germans?” Harry
asked. “An’ Eyeties?”
“Eyeties?”
“Italians,” Harry said.
“Dagoes, Wops!”
“I like ’em all right,” Paul
said. “There’s good an’ bad
ever’where.”
“What about Mussolini?”
Harry chipped.
“ Mussolini,” Paul said,
but without rancor. “Didn’ I
say there’s good an’ bad
ever’where! ”
“The Eyeties are giving you
blokes some hurry-up, anyway,”
Harry said. Harry liked start-
ing arguments. I could see he
was trying to pick an argument
with Paul, and I could also see
he did not have a chance of
doing it.
Paul grinned. “No, they
ain’t,” he said. “Italian soldier
no goddam good!”
He knew what he was talking
about. The Italians had invaded
Greece five months earlier,
expecting to be in Athens in a
week. They were farther from
Athens now than they had been
at the beginning; everybody
knew the Germans would have
to get them out of trouble. I
could see that Paul knew it.
“What about Hitler?” Harry
persisted.
Paul shrugged. “If Hitler
comes . . . finish!” he said.
“Don’t forget we’re here,”
Harry replied, cocky.
“Not enougha you,” Paul
said. “She’ll all be over pretty
quick.”
Harry sipped his ouzo, and
Paul said, “You drink that stuff
straight?”
“You bet,” said Harry. “I
like my liquor straight.”
“She’s dynamite, you know,
that ouzo,” Paul told him. He
glanced at me. “You take water
with yours, eh?”
“Thanks,” I said. He tipped
water into my glass from the
carafe on the table. The color-
less liquid turned milky as the
water hit it.
“What kinda country’s Aus-
tralia?” he asked.
, “Pretty good,” I told him,
thinking of the long yellow
beaches and the hard drab-
green of the plains and the
harsh distances.
“Like the States?”
“A lot less people, but big like
the States. We’ve got some
Greeks there.”
“I had a cousin went there,
long time back. Town named
Perth, I think,” Paul said. “We
never heard of him again . . .
I might go t’ Australia when the
goddam war’s over.”
“There’s plenty of room for
you,” Harry said. “You could
bring your cafe with you.” .
“Isn’t my cafe,” Paul said.
“She belongs t’ one my boys.
I’m just looking after her . . .
You like more coffee or some-
thing?”
We said no. We’d only come
into the cafe to dodge the heat
for a while. We left him, say-
ing we would come back again
next time we were round that
way, but I suppose neither of us
ever did intend to go back.
And that was the odd part of
it. Talking to Paul, I had felt
we were just killing time, the
way men in uniform do in the
inactive periods of a war. But
later I found myself thinking
about Paul. He hadn’t said
much, but there were things
locked away inside him that I
wanted to know about. In that,
he was like Greece itself: there
was more to him than appeared
on the surface.
HARRY’S unit moved north a
day or two later. The
Intelligence people reckoned the
Germans would attack in the
early days of April, and the
British, Australian and New
Zealand troops had to take up
their positions in the mountains.
As a correspondent, I was not
allowed to go forward then, and
I had to kick my heels in
Athens for a while. So on my
second visit to the Cafe Wavell
I went alone.
There were three other cus-
tomers this time; Greek
civilians. They were grouped
around one of the tables, with
drinks in front of them, arguing
intensely in their own tongue,
which I did not understand.
Paul was sitting on a high stool
behind the counter, reading a
newspaper, but as soon as I sat
down he came out from behind
the counter and walked over to
my table.
“Hello,” he said.
“You remember me?”
“Sure! You were in here that
other time with the other Aus-
tralian fella . . . Coffee?”
I said yes, and invited him to
join me. He fetched coffee for
both of us, but he would not sit
down: he stood by the table
sipping from his cup.
“You still reckon it’s all up if
Hitler attacks?” I asked him.
He nodded. “The Huns got
too many men, too many guns,
too many aeroplane.”
“What .happens to Greece
then?”
He shrugged. “What happens
t’ Greece’ll be pretty bad,” he
said. “I mean, for people like
me, all the poor people.”
“How about the others?”
“They all right,” he said.
“The big people always all right.
It’s always the little guy has it
hard.”
“How about the Govern-
ment?”
“The Government get out
fast, soon as there’s trouble.
You watch!”
“You’re a bit of Bolshie,” I
said, laughing.
“Not me! ” Paul said.
“Bolshies, Fascists, Socialists,
liberals, all the lot of ’em, they
all the same. They just men,
an’, well, men look after their
own skins, don’t they?”
We talked for a while longer,
o Continued on page 34)


c*
rt* v
o*
1*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
&
■
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save up to 1/8.
Tl 9
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM MARSDEN late
of 105 George Street Broadway.—TAKE
NOTICE that IVY MARSDEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3019 of 1955 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you might
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th day of April, 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN S. CUPIT & BEST,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutual Chambers,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEOFFREY JAMES BANKS late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that JUNE
THELMA BANKS has filed her Petition
for Divorce No. 4442 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and asks for the exercise of the Courts
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954 a-
you intend to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Regis ry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th April 1956 and obtain a copy oi
the Petition without charge from Mr.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor, /9 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO CHARLES FRANKLIN SHAFFER
late of 47 David’s Road, Haberfield
TAKE NOTICE that NANCY ALE a A
SHAFFER has filed a Petition tor
Divorce No. 2836 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards Hf youiw*
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 9th April 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with
out charge from B. J. MACBEE, BU
T AND & CO., Solicitors, of 129 rniinp
Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registra •
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of (1) “Life” magazine con-
taining an article on and photographs
of Sean O’Casey; (2) “Time” maga-
zine containing a long article on
Herman Wouk and a review of his
latest book, Marjorie Morningstar.
—6261.
To buy copy of Life of Sir Charles
Barry, E.R.S., Artist and Renowned
English Architect; written by his son,
Alfred Barry, Bishop of Sydney and
Primate of Australia; published by
jDavid Murray, 1867. —6263.
Does Anybody Know?
Address of a Dorset Society in
Australia? —6262.
Information Sought
(1) When can a union be de-
registered? By whom? (2) How
can such a union be re-registered ?
(1) The Federal Arbitration Court
(or a State Industrial Court or Com-
mission) can cancel registration of a
union under its particular jurisdiction
when it is satisfied that the union has
wilfully neglected to obey its orders.
Exercise of this power can mean the
unqualified loss to the union and its
members of all benefits deriving from
all relevant awards. (2) The union
must apply for a new registration (or
re-registration), The appropriate
court is accustomed to demand from
the applicant-union assurances, in
terms without qualification, of full
observance of orders and awards
made by the court. (The A.C.T.U.,
at a special congress in September,
1952, reaffirmed the “right” to strike,
and promised support, if needed, to
any union, either registered or seek-
ing registration, which refused to
abandon this “right.” This decision
has reacted against maintaining union
discipline.)
* * * *
What was the judgment of the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission last
year which deregistered F.E.D.F.A'. ?
On April 14, 1955, the Full Bench
pf the N.S.W. Industrial Commission
delivered reserved judgment on
applications by Australian Iron and
Steel, Newcastle Chemical, B.H.P.
and several other companies for
cancellation of the registration of the
Federated Engine Drivers and Fire-
men’s Association of Australasia,
Coast District, as an industrial union
of employees. The commission
divided proceedings into three parts:
stoppages at Newcastle; stoppages by
engine-drivers employed by the
N.S.W. Railways Commissioner at
Port Kembla;' and events at
A.I. and S. at Port Kembla in Feb.-
Mar., 1955. The happenings in the
three series, in the , commission’s
view, were not connected and there
was no suggestion that the union
started each of them as a common
design; yet in the three cases illegal
action had been taken seemingly
without any real attempt by the union
executive or its officers to prevent it,
and without any disciplinary
measures being taken afterwards by
the union. The union had been
granted re-registration in July, 1953,
but its members had since then taken
part in a series of illegal strikes; the
inference from all this was that
officers of the union in responsible
positions had connived at and
assisted the men in their illegal
activities. Accordingly the commis-
sion found, among other things, that
members of the union had taken part
in a series of illegal strikes in breach
of Rule 41 of the union’s rules; that
officers of the union had supported
and encouraged the men; that the
stoppages were breaches of the terms
of the undertaking given by the
union and its officers to the Industrial
Commission in 1953. The union’s
registration was cancelled forthwith.
(At the end of Sept., 1955, there
was a strike of loco-men, members of
F.E.D.F.A., at the B.H.P. works at
Newcastle which threw 3500 men out
of work; it ended on Oct. 1 when
Mr. Justice Richards, of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission, who described
it as “illegal” and “completely with-
out just cause or excuse,” ordered the
men to resume work. F.E.D.F.A.
has taken part in other illegal
stoppages, and the union is still
deregistered.)
* * * *
Are there “legal” and “illegal”
strikes ?
Any strike against an award made
by an Arbitration Court or other
industrial tribunal or authority is an
illegal strike—that is, any strike by a
registered union in an industry wholly
or partly regulated by an award is
illegal. The Federal Arbitration
Court holds that a union and its
members can’t have both arbitration
(and all its benefits) and resort to
“direct action” when dissatisfied.
Under the Commonwealth’s Crimes
Act of 1950 it is an offence to incite,
aid, urge or encourage the taking-
part in or continuance of a strike
threatening trade or commerce with
other countries. At the same time
there is no such thing as a “legal”
strike. Perhaps, in an earlier age,
before the devising and perfecting of
arbitration-systems, strikes against an
autocratic employer or for higher
wages could be justified. For
instance, U.S. courts last century
“had come around to the view that
strikes for direct objectives like
higher wages and shorter work-days
were lawful” ( Labor and the Law, by
C. O. Gregory, Professor of Law at
Chicago University). But that, of
course, doesn’t hold for any pros-
perous, democratic country today. In
Australia, the unlawfulness of strikes
can be plainly attested by the fact
that only in times of strikes (such as
the big 1949 coal-strike and all the
waterfront strikes) is there now
general inconvenience and suffering,
unemployment and hardship.
* * * *
(1) How to prevent mildew or
dump-mould from affecting drawing-
paper? (2) Can paper so affected be
restored ?
(1) These papers and boards should
be kept in a cupboard or drawer in
a room on the sunny side of the
house, against an inner wall. If
damp threatens even then, they should
be wrapped or interleaved with
blotting-paper and folded into sheets
of greaseproof- or similar paper. (2)
It is almost impossible to restore
them: processes for so doing are
very messy, and uncertain in their
results. It is advisable to buy only
small quantities of these papers at
a time; they deteriorate unless kept
under very dry conditions.
• * * *
Some information about English
writer Sydney Horler?
Bom on July. 18, 1888, he became
a reporter with the “Western Daily
Press,” Bristol, in 1905, leaving in
1911 to be special writer on the staff
of E. Hulton and Co., Ltd., of
Manchester ; later he was on the
“Daily Mail” and “Daily Citizen,”
was with Air Intelligence in World
War I, and after the war was a sub-
editor on “John o’ London’s
Weekly.” He left in July, 1919, to
concentrate on the writing of fiction,
and wrote in all well over 130 novels
(“mystery romances,” “sporting
novels,” boys’ books and the like),
beginning with The Mystery of No. 1.
Many of his books have been trans-
lated. He also wrote an auto-
biography, Excitement, two diaries,
Strictly Personal and More Strictly
Personal, and Writing for Moiiey,
“the truth about one of the most
uncertain and precarious ways of
endeavoring to earn a living that an
ironic fate has invented." He died
on Oct. 27, 1954.
* * * *
How to rid a fowl-house of poultry-
lice ?
Autumn is the strategic time of the
year to begin control-measures,
because of the build-up in numbers
from that time onwards. The
following methods all have their
uses: Perch paints have a fumigant
action and should be applied to the
upper-surface of the perches and all
other roosting-sites about dusk, just
as the birds go to roost. Nicotine-
sulphate (Blackleaf 40) is applied
either with a paint-brush or by
running a thin trail of the solution
along the perches. As nearly as
possible the rate of application should
be one fluid-ounce per 20-30 linear-
feet of perch. A calm night must be
chosen, so that the fumes are not
dispersed. For the same reason, this
method is suitable only for partially-
enclosed sheds. This treatment is not
without risk: a too-liberal applica-
tion or inadequately ventilated sheds
may lead to the death of birds from
the filmes of nicotine-sulphate. One
treatment will clean-up lice on the
bird, but a second treatment is neces-
sary within 14 days to kill lice which
emerge from eggs in the interval.
Head-lice are not killed by this
method. Benzene hexachloride is
procurable in either emulsions, sus-
pensions or solutions. The effective
portion of this drug is called the
gamma-isomer, and dilution of a
stock of the drug should be made
to give a final concentration of \
to 1 p.c. gamma-isomer. A liberal
application should be made to
thoroughly wet the surface of the
perch. There is a marked residual
action, and it is not necessary to
repeat treatment as in the case of
nicotine-sulphate. This method will
control head-lice. Dusting: For
flock-treatment, sulphur may be
incorporated in floor-litter at the
rate of 21b. per 100 sq. ft. This is
repeated in ten days. For individual
treatment, pure sodium-fluoride
dusted into the feathers and rubbed
on to the skin gives effective control.
One ounce of sodium-fluoride should
be sufficient for seven birds.
Oiling: For the control of head-lice
by individual treatment, neatsfoot-
oil, olive-oil, or a mixture of 2 parts
lard and 1 part of kerosene by
measure should be used, rubbed into
the bird’s head with a rag.
Brief Answers
C.C.R.: (1) There is no date avail-
able for any casual aircraft landing
at Mareeba, but the first aircraft to
operate from the aerodrome were
Beauforts of No. 100 Squadron,
R.A.A.F., which went there at the
end of May, 1942. This was after
the Coral Sea Battle. (2) No aircraft
from Mareeba played a role in this
battle. The Flying Fortresses of 19th
U.S. Bombardment Group arrived
there on July 24, 1942... .P.O’R.:
The P.M.G.’s Department is in no
way responsible for the provision of
roadside mail-boxes. When a resi-
dent on a mail-route applies to the
postmaster at the office of address,
arrangements are made for delivery
of mail at a specified point (beyond
one mile from a post-office) on the
route traversed by the contractor.
The department does not compel
residents to erect a box on the mail-
route, but undertakes delivery at a
point selected by the addressee, who
may erect a receptacle of a type suit-
able to himself or arrange for a
member of his household to be in
attendance at the point selected and
accept delivery of his correspondence.
Normally, a box is provided by the
addressee, in which case the only
departmental requirement is that the
receptacle should be placed in such
position as to enable the mail-
contractor to deposit mail therein
without alighting from his vehicle
or deviating from the authorised
mail-route... .A.F.W.: Sydney Show
entries for stud-classes thorough-
breds and stud-class trotters and
pacers—close on March 9
F.S.K.: Students from Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and the Veterin-
ary School of Sydney University will
be appointed for the purpose of
assisting cattle-exhibitors with pre-
paration of Sydney Show stock.
Such assistance will be available from
the day before judging of the breed
up to and including the day on
which the breed is sold by public
auction sometime during the Show.
Exhibitors must undertake to pay 10s.
per day for each student towards
expense incurred D.H.: Write
Association of Australian
Genealogists, 19a Phillip-street,
Sydney A.M.: The flyweight-
limit is Bst. and under... .S.A.A.:
Caledonia is the ancient name for
that part of Scotland which is north
of the firths of Clyde and Forth; the
term is still used lightly and in poetry
for the whole of Scotland
R.C.F.: (1) Pest-fauna includes
species which are serious pests of the
agricultural and pastoral industries.
These can be destroyed throughout
the State (Queensland) at any time
of the year subject to restrictions
relating to sanctuaries and some
specified districts. (2) Wedgetailed-
eagle, grey (white) goshawk, Austra-
lian goshawk, collared sparrow-
hawk, cormorants (shags), eastern
swamphen (bald coot), falcons (except
the nankeen-kestrel), white-cockatoo,
silvereyes, crows and ravens, pied-
currawong, grey butcher-bird,
sparrow, starling, turtle-dove, rose-
breasted cockatoo (galah), bee-eaters
(pest-fauna only within the Brisbane
and East Moreton Pest Destruction
Board areas). (3) Dingoes, rabbits,
foxes, hares, flying-foxes (pest-fauna
only within the Brisbane, East
Moreton and Toowoomba Pest
Destruction Board areas) G.H.D.:
Foxzami was third in the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate to Riptide 8.C.F.:
Hyperion won the 1934 W.A. Derby,
defeating Bivalve and Staunch. He
ran the mile-and-a-half in 2.43£.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D. 8.: “Tell it to the Marines” calls
for brighter treatment H.P.H.:
Reads more like a guide for pig-
raisers than a story W.H.L.: Plot,
characters, location and theme were
all forgotten in your absorption with
descriptions of Continental dishes.
... .A.S.: Our Chinese laundryman
assured us that you do not know
your Canton E.F.: But would
you call a fellow who cleared a one-
acre block, 20 miles from Sydney, in
the 1930’s “one of the old-time
pioneers whose courage and fortitude
deserve our undying respect”?....
C.S.: You’re the ninth poet to
be jilted by his girl this week....
K.M.: Hopeless H.D.: Neither
that bush parson nor that profane
bullocky is exactly a stranger to this
long - lived periodical... .L.M.S.:
Unmoved by what happened to the
amateur photographer who strayed
into a nudist colony R.S.: On,
on, Bluebird wings her way home-
ward through the night... .W.L.J.:
If you must have an island in your
yarn, pick on one off the Australian
coast F.S.A.: You can call and
collect the old-age pensioner whenever
you like... .P.W.R.: We extend to
you our heartfelt sympathy:—
I don’t like sandwiches made with rasp-
berry jam.
Between the bread I’d rather have some
ham.
When I’m given jam I yell out: “Jaml
Oh, damn I”
But my wife says: “Sam, eat that jam
and scram.”
... .E.W.F.: “Trouble’s Knocking at
the Door” knocked at our door in
vain W.M,S.: Impossible to
handle such closely-typed stuff
J.N.: Somewhat ragged; and that
old “southerly” has been worked
overtime by Sydney verse-writers....
P.R.: Six lines will suffice:
Hultiferous are the terrible misdeeds
In the streeto that are committed
Beneath the flashing orbs of the Johns,
Whose keen wits are ever pitted
Against many desperate, hardened sinners,
Who were once juvenile delinquent be-
ginners.
....C.H.G.: You will never attain
to solvency by writing poems....
H.E.S.: “Call of the North” might
be a call to anywhere else. And,
anyhow, it’s an extremely feeble call.
... .S.F.D.: The yarn about the fan-
dancer, lost in a suburban cemetery,
who was rescued by a defrocked
clergyman and a Fijian footballer,
while a demented steeplejack let-off
fireworks from the top of the chimney
of the crematorium, is too common-
place for the ordinary reader. Try
to get hold of something more
unusual as a plot C. 8.: “The
Butchers’ Picnic” ends magnificently
in a welter of bad rhymes M.S.T.:
No use writing for a junior Sunday-
school class.... K.L.: The first
stanza is a fine example of how not
to write:—
To north and south and left and right
The bush stretched drab and drearily,
When, bravo, this lovely oasis met my
sight,
Verily, in beauty, an Austral Killarney.
....8.5.C.: Heavy small-town drama
turning on the difference between
shortbread and arrowroot biscuits
is no use here J.A.: As unmelo-
dious as an ungreased wheelbarrow.
.... F. 8.: It wants a light touch,
and yours is—well, not light
H.W.: Doubt if the food-reformers
will accept tripe as a vegetable, but
let it go:
Handsome fortunes are amassed
By men of a hearty type.
Who keep themselves well nourished
On apples, milk and tripe.
E.McC.: Why don’t you try
reading some of the things we print
and seeing for yourself what is
wanted?... .L.T.R.: Dreary vernacu-
lar narrations in no known dialect
inspire nothing but anger H.P.L.:
As a schoolboy-yarn it’s not badly
done; but, then, we don’t want
schoolboy - yarns R.L.8.: Each
mournful wail is just an imitation of
a lot of other mournful wails. These
things are done to a recipe
S.W.S.: Horrible yarn, horribly
written on both sides of the paper.
E.K.: What is the use of build-
ing up a series of fanciful horrors
of that kind without meaning or
purpose?... .H.G.V.: A yam told
in that fashion would require to be
better than average to be even
endured G.McE.: You pick up
all the well-used phrases and tangle
them into loose verse that gives no
clear picture N.O’G.: We have
room for one majestic stanza:
Ascending as the rollers roll
Meets pandemonia-hyperbole —
Furies have become cyclonic:
Barring thoughts hedonic.
R.P.B.: Those ghostly huts in
poor verse are becoming as frequent
as the men who rode buckjumpers.
. ...A.H.N.: One hath a thin
imitative look and the other cometh
to naught J.D.: It only repeats
what has been said ten-thousand
times.. ..V.A.R.: You don’t seem
to have any clear idea of what you’re
driving at E.McM.: Not much
use asking what becomes of verse
with lines like “Why singeth thou
so mournfully alway?”... .J.W.F.:
The same weary old tale of tne new-
chum who could ride when they
thought he couldn’t... .J. 8.8.: Visits
to Hades have to be of unusual
interest to avert boredom....
W.T.8.: Through the swaying roll
and the zigzag slither of the lines
we observe that drunken driving
doesn’t pay. In future say it in
prose... .F.L.: Try to get some idea
what verse is before you start to put
words at random on paper....B.D.:
Read your rhyming criticism with
acute —indeed, painful—interest....
V.C.: “Filigree” too full of holes.


Author's Notes on His Trade—
Whiting, a Book
By
GAVIN CASEY
FEW people write books,
which means that most
people are lucky. It is
the loneliest occupation
there is, and all hard work.
Some other forms of writing for
money are almost a pleasure.
But a book is a burden that
stays on your back for a year or
so, and never quite satisfies you
even if it pleases others.
The short-story is a single
idea, firmly pinned down, fully
understood, and put into the
best words you can manage in
a matter of hours. You tackle it
when you think your mood is
right, and the mood hasn’t had
time to change before you’ve
finished it. The product, good or
bad, is at least of even texture.
But when you re-read a novel
of your own you can remember
the row you had with your wife
before you wrote that unsatis-
factory chapter in the middle.
You recall the trouble with the
gas-company about that overdue
account that made those vital
passages towards the end limp a
little. You shudder at the clumsi-
ness of something, and remem-
ber that you were doing that
part, in more-or-less a daze of
anxiety, when little Tommy was
in hospital.
The way to avoid all this is, of
course, to tackle it when in the
mood, as you do short-stories.
But you aren’t in the mood often
enough or for long enough. To
do 100,000 solid words in
spasms “when in the mood”
would take years and years and
years. You’d have the monstrous
thing on your mind for so long
you’d be nuts before you reached
the end.
What you need is the sort of
set-up the late Bernard Shaw
had in his later years. Plenty
of money and a placid wife. No
kids around the place. No
thirst. A revolving work-
room, with one glass-wall, in
the garden, where all views are
beautiful and you can swing
your box around to catch all the
sunshine in winter and dodge it
ii» summer.
But it took G.B.S. some years,
great gifts, and a ton of work
to achieve these things. You
can’t start at the top and work
your way down. You have to
keep on hammering at the type-
writer, whether or not in the
mood, filling those endless pages
and hoping for the best.
In Australia, if you’re lucky
and have already published
enough to prove you might be
worth the money, you can some-
times get one of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund Fellow-
ships that I had last year. You
tell them what you’ve done, what
you propose to do this time,
.who’ll back your own state-
ments that you are a suitable
person for a grant. You then
wait.
If it comes, it amounts to
£6OO, paid to you (less tax-
deduction) in advance at the
beginning of each calendar-
month, in £5O-instalments. You
don’t get the last half-hundred
unless you have, by that time,
produced the book-manuscript
promised, and this struck me as
funny, for if you were a cynical
loafer who intended to do
nothing you’d still get £550 of
the money.
Anyway, if you’re not a cyni-
cal loafer, you get to work, and
it is astonishing the difference
that the inadequate sum of £6OO
makes. It’s not a third of enough
to live on if you have my rent,
family, and tastes. But it is
enough to earn for, say, two
days of solid work a week. And
you only have to promise that
you’ll devote “a substantial part”
f of your time to the project.
My earlier novels were ham-
mered out during evenings and
at weekends, after, or in the
midst of, what were generally
strenuous weeks of newspaper-
work. As well as wives and gas-
companies I had a boss on my
back, and all the usual worries
that afflict most of us. And
added to these was a growing
feeling that I was being done out
of certain things I deserved.
I am a man who likes to drink
and talk with his mates, play
with his children, loaf in the sun-
shine, and read a great deal.
The only way I could write
books was by sacrificing a whole
lot of the time I needed for these
other, pleasanter things. My
sense of injury grew, my laziness
increased with the years, and by
the time I got the Literary Fund
Fellowship I hadn’t written a
novel for five years.
This meant, of course, that I
had several novels on my con-
science. They were nagging at
me so hard that I’d probably
have broken down soon and got
to work even without the grant.
Anyway, the grant came, and,
in spite of its smallness, it made
last year one of the best of my
life.
I gave up bosses, and, though
I have generally had good ones,
no boss at all is better than the
best. I did every sort of free-
lance writing there is, except
verse and radio-work. This
covered fiction and articles for
The Bulletin, the same plus
novelettes and picture-stories
(with a photographer-colleague)
for other periodicals, comic-
strip stories, film-treatments and
“hit-and-run” public - relations
jobs.
And for that precious couple
of days a week —two one week,
none for the next fortnight, then
perhaps a solid five-day week —
I got on with the novel. The
point was that I was able to do
it without depriving myself
either of proper leisure or of
reasonable immediate income. I
had some worries, naturally, in
the course of a year, and my
moods varied. But not as much
as they do when you are over-
worked as well as harassed by
other things. Soon I had con-
ditioned myself to locking out
the rest of the world when I was
at work on the book.
One of my many faults as a
writer is that I work too fast.
Stories, articles, novels, after
due thought on the matter, go
straight on paper, and the first
draft is the last. A few small
corrections in ink, a title-page,
an envelope and a stamp, and
I’ve done it and half-forgotten
it.
This is a very handy facility
for a freelance in a tough world,
or even for a staff-writer who
wants to spend a good deal of
the boss’s time drinking without
.cheating the boss. It seems to
work quite well with short-
stories, disgorged in short
periods of intense concentration.
But I had long doubted that it
was the best way to write novels,
or any other full-length books.
So now that I had 100 days,
spread over a year, to get a
book done, I imposed self-dis-
cipline. I have almost forgot-
ten how to write with a pen,
except to sign cheques, in this
typewriter-age, but I made my-
self draft the novel in longhand,
to the extent of about 80,000
words in notebooks.
When I had about 30,000
words in the notebooks I alter-
"I've only got a page left to finish it.”
nated adding to their number
with typing what I had done,
altering, expanding, and I hope
improving as I went along. On
the typewriter the thing came
out at about 130,000 words, but
I don’t think it is too long, be-
cause there turned out to be a
lot to say. '
I think the method worked
well, and has resulted in a novel
better than my earlier ones. At
least, it has a less jerky continu-
ity to its story, and there were
other advantages.
If you write a book the fast
way, as I used to, your troubles
come at the end, when you start
to read and correct it.* It is
quite a while since you wrote
the early parts, and you can read
them with fairly good capacity
to judge them. You find that
some characters have changed
names once or twice, but that
doesn’t matter. Reading some
parts you think you’re a pretty
clever fellow. Over others you
are very doubtful indeed. But
at the end you just haven’t a
clue as to whether it is any good
or utter balderdash.
You only wrote the stuff a
week or two ago. You’re too
close, to it to see anything but
brushmarks. The thing to do is
lock it in a drawer for six
months, and —as Mr. Heming-
way probably does —spend the
time watching a few bullfights in
Spain and having a few drinks in
Paris, and then have a look at it.
Unfortunately you’re not Mr.
Hemingway, any more than you
are the late Mr. Shaw, with the
Rolls-Royce and the summer-
house work-room. Having
accomplished this great, weary
mass of work you want whatever
money can be got out of it, and
you want it in a hurry. Or your
bank-manager or your creditors
want it. You correct such
errors of spelling and grammar
as you are capable of detecting,
send it off, and hope for the
best.
Probably the main advantage
of working on a draft and a
finished version at the same time
is that it keeps you in touch with
the book as a whole, helps pre-
vent out-of-balance obsession
with the incidents you are hand-
ling at the moment. You are
kept in touch with what should
be the spirit of the work, the
emotions and thoughts that ani-
mated earlier writing. You are
also kept in touch with your
own characters, so that, though
you may still forgetfully change
their names once or twice, you
don’t change their habits, man-
nerisms, and attitudes to life and
to each other.
You can see, perhaps, why I
had such a good year. Strenu-
ous. Greatly productive—of a
good deal of rubbish as well as
of the novel and a lot of
Bulletin work that I enjoyed
writing. Yet with leisure for all
that talking, having a drink with
cobbers, playing with the kids,
reading, and just resting.
A book is still lonely work,
though—perhaps particularly for
me. I have seen too many men
in various writing-fields destroy
their own self-confidence by
seeking too much advice and
criticism, and I seek none from
anybody.
Even my wife is not invited
to read a line until a job is done.
When people ask me what I’m
writing about it makes me un-
easy, and I generally answer,
“It’s about people,” or talk
very vaguely about the general
theme and get off the subject as
quickly as I can. How can I
tell anybody in a casual conver-
sation what it is going to take
me more than 100,000 words (or
even 2000) words to say in print?,
I am afraid also of becoming
the kind of earbasher to which
belong at least two writer-
friends of mine. They are both
good fellows, but when engaged
on a major work that has really
gripped their imaginations they
are impossible.
They talk of nothing else.
They think of nothing else. They
chuckle over their own humor,
scowl as they tell of their own
villains, almost weep as they
wring their own hearts relating
for the tenth time the situation
of infinite pathos they have
worked-out for the end. Their
enthusiasm is admirable, but at
such times I’m afraid their com-
pany is simply boring.
Perhaps my solitary habits of
work go to the other extreme,
but the fact is that no opinion of
what I am writing interests me
except my own. When the work
is finished, I value the opinion
of anybody who will pay money
for it, and then, when it has
been properly presented, com-
plete and in some suitable
printed-form, I very much value
the opinions of those readers
who seem to have any idea of
what I was getting at.
As for the critics, I don’t
know. I once wrote a book
which they all slammed, in terms
such as “depressing,” “sordid,”
“unnecessary.” I wrote another
which they all hailed with de-
lighted cries, more-or-less to the
effect that “at last I was living
up to the promise shown in my
short-stories.” The public, pro-
bably wisely, didn’t buy very
many copies of either.
Anyway, if you are thinking
about writing a book, think very
deeply. I mean, think about
whether you should or not for
a long time before you start
thinking about the book itself.
If you reach the latter stage
you’re probably gone a million,
and will never be able to stop.
If you’re just an exhibition-
ist (as all writers must be to
some degree, of course) it might
be better to take on wrestling,
amateur theatricals, or politics.
In those occupations you get the
reactions, good or bad, of your
audience quickly. Writing a book
you labor for a year, wait six
months for it to be published,
chew your nails over the reviews,
and wait another six months
before your first royalty-state-
ment and cheque give you any
idea of what the readers really
think of it.
Even the worriers and constant
seekers after advice have to go
through all this. They can’t
shorten it by a day. About the
only way they can dodge it is
by worrying so hard they get to
mental-institutions, which isn’t
my idea of a happy ending.
I was happy with short-stories,
(Continued on page 27)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL .
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Rising Fast had everything in
the performance line on his
rivals in the weight-for-age C. F.
Orr Stakes (one mile) at Moonee
Valley, yet he was only third
in the betting-order. The Orb
(a handicapper) and Cromis
were preferred to the New
Zealand-bred winner of £61,765.
It was simply a matter of Rising
Fast being fit, and he showed
them he was.
An amazing feature of the
Orr Stakes was the strong
demand for Sydneysider Ace
Pilot, at best a modest handi-
capper with no pretensions to
w.-f.-a. form. He finished a
distant fourth. In a handicap
Rising Fast would concede
many pounds to his opponents,
but in the w.-f.-a. event he had
8.12 and Ace Pilot Fancy
the lastnamed conceding to
the best horse in Australia, no
matter what type of contest!
Next start for Rising Fast is
expected to be in the rich Alister
Clark Stakes (10 furlongs), run
next Saturday week. In this
£5150 Moonee Valley contest he
will strike much tougher opposi-
tion than he met on Saturday.
Salador, who had an easy task
in the Second Sturt Handicap
for two-year-olds at the Valley,
is one of the progeny of the
successful sire Gabador (imp.).
Raced by Mr. and Mrs. M. J.
Stevens and trained by J. P.
Mulcahy, he was bred by W.
Fisher at his Ra Ora Stud, Pan-
mure (N.Z.). His dam, Sister
Sal, a Salmagundi (imp.) mare
from Waiau Maid by Paladin
(imp.), won eight races in New
Zealand, among them the
Winton Cup.
Rosehill track was heavy on
Saturday, no doubt contributing
to the fact that in the eight
events seven favorites were
defeated, while Wilson River,
easy winner of the First Parra-
matta Stakes, only shared
favoritism. Via Air, Raincheck
and Wattle Gum were the
biggest surprises. J. Thompson
landed a treble. His quick
thinking on Akanui secured a
rails run for that horse which
brought success.
It’s a bit of a step from
restricted company to one of the
toughest mile races in the
country, the Doncaster, but con-
nections of Wilson River be-
lieve the three-year-old colt has
prospects in the Randwick mile
at Easter. Wilson River has now
emerged from the Graduation
Stakes class and will tackle open
company, in which he will carry
much less than the 8.9 success-
fully handled on the heavy track
at Rosehill. As a two-year-old
Wilson River gave promise, win-
ning at Randwick at his second
race-start. In nine later starts
that season, however, he only
filled four minor placings. In
his present condition he easily
could win more races. He’s a
half-brother to Free Rule, a
Randwick and Brisbane winner,
and is related to Grand Fils,
whose wins included the A.J.C.
Metropolitan and the Anni-
versary Handicap.
Near Way (imp.), a good per-
former in England and a son of
unbeaten Nearco, has had a
few winners on Sydney tracks
and another was added to the
list when Via Air surprised in
the First Rosehill Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies. Via Air is
raced by her breeder, W. J.
Smith, of St. Aubin’s stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), who offered
several Near Way colts and four
fillies at the Randwick Easter
yearling-sales last year, but
declined to accept some of the
modest bids made. Via Air
comfortably defeated the warm
favorite, Smile. Via Air’s dam,
Midia, brought to Australia in
1950, was bred in Eire —by
Umiddad from Tropical Moon
by Colombo.
Moulin Rouge, runaway
winner of the Rosehill Second
Maiden Two-year-old for fillies,
had shown a lot of pace in a
Canterbury sprint early in
December, and maybe backers
were ready for her, as best price
was the 5-to-2 at which she
started. Star Cherry, with W.
Cook in the saddle, was all the
rage, but she was slow to settle
down, which prevented her
making the finish a closer
affair. She ran third. Moulin
Rouge is by Mid-Day Sun
(imp.) from Chorine, an un-
raced mare by Actor (Fr.)
from None So Gay (imp.) by
Friar Marcus. Randwick
trainer Frank Dalton racesi
Moulin Rouge in partnership
with George Sayers.
Racing experience stood to
Valiant Prince, winner of the
colts’ division of the Rosehill
Maiden Two-year-old. He’d had
more outings than any of his 21
rivals, but it was only in the
final stride that he got the upper
hand of the more speedy grey
Alamo, favorite at 5 to 2.
Valiant Prince, trained at Rand-
wick by Vic Thompson, and
cleverly handled by smart
apprentice J. Gallagher, comes
from the Hydrogen and Gallant
Archer families, and possesses
the Carbine blood. One of his
half-sisters, Rhumba, won the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes.
On anything shown since he
came to Sydney from Brisbane,
Rocky Tom had no form justi-
fying his opening price of 4 to
1 for the Rosehill Welter Handi-
cap, and so strong was the
demand that he started favorite.
He finished last, after being with
the lead into the straight. Pos-
sibly the heavy going was against
the visitor, who may disclose
improved form on a dry track.
Still, he is among the regular
gallopers at Rosebery, and his
early-morning tryouts have been
nothing out of the ordinary. The
race was easily won by Rain-
check, whose previous success
had been at the same track about
12 months earlier.
Though Wattle Gum had been
pleasing in his track-trials at
Randwick there weren’t many
who profited over his first suc-
cess in the Rosehill Auburn
Stakes. The Valognes (imp.)
three-year-old colt looks a
stayer in the making. Related to
Regal Son (Metropolitan), and
to Eusebius (V.R.C. Derby and
St. Leger), he could develop into
a useful performer up to 12
furlongs. A second foal, he is
from Wattle, winner of 12 races,
including the A.J.C. Champagne
Stakes and the Armidale
Cup. Wattle sister to
Shading, a good winner at
Randwick is by Brueghel
(It.) from Gold Hinge by Claro
(imp.). Walgett (N.S.W.) owner
J. R. Moore races the colt in
partnership with Mrs. L. Moore.
Hawkesbury Maiden Two-
year-old winner Lansdale could
soon score in much better com-
pany. His bloodlines include
Overland, I Believe, Fran Mac,
Tel Asur, All Veil, Ibrani and
Regal Son (A.J.C. Metropolitan).
Ibrani won the Oakleigh Plate
and All Veil the Newmarket
Handicap. Tel Asur won 20
races. Lansdale is by Whirl-
away (imp.) from Telegraphy by -
Marconigram (imp.) from Lucie
Manette by Chrysolaus (imp.).
* * *
In all, £36,500 will be offered
over the four-night Inter-
Dominion carnival commencing
at Harold Park this Saturday
night. Horses qualifying for the
final (Feb. 25) will be racing for
the richest prize ever offered for
a harness-event outside America
—£12,500 and a gold cup worth
£3OO. Acceptances for the first
“In the EIGHTH round, mug."
set of qualifying heats have
been declared ; these are run
over 11 } furlongs. To knock
the fields into safe racing-size,
handicapper Jack Marx had to
ballot 10 horses from the remain-
ing 55. It is ironical that he
did this on Friday morning,
leaving in, of course, early
choice Springfield Guy and
well-performed Blue Gamble
and bumping-out not-so-well-
performed Secret Spring: on
Friday night Secret Spring
accounted for both Springfield
Guy and Blue Gamble in free-
for-all conditions at Newcastle.
M . ’
Trotting exhibitions to be
staged on the Bankstown Show-
ground last Sunday advertised
that top Inter-Dominion con-
tenders would compete in a
free-for-all, which would be run
in two divisions for safety,
Many of the stars were there—
Dominion, inter-State and local
horses—looking for a run to put
under their belts; but fate
played a trick on the safety
advertised. Only eight horses
started in the first run and nine
in the second, but there was a
nasty smash in each, which
robbed most of them of the run
they were after and spectators
of the form-guide they were
expecting, and sent some of the
crack pacers home at least a bit
stiff in the joints. Vedette,
1951 (Christchurch) Inter-
Dominion winner, seemed to be
the worst, and perhaps the only
real, sufferer, with four stitches
in a head-wound. At the time,
he was, under a firm hold,
going like an express.
* * * ’
Vedette is a businesslike light
bay, and the way he was racing
he could easily have regained his
best form. Moss Hall, a well-
muscled dark bay of the classical
style, sports a long dark mane
and looks trim, with his
bandaged front legs; he was
doing it well on the fence at the
fall. Recent Choice is an un-
attractive brown; he was left
at the tapes. The other
Enzedder, Highland Flirt, is a
pretty black, prim in a white
noseband ; she shows a lot of
speed, but might be short of
wind at the right end. Avian
Derby, 1952 Inter-Dominion
winner, was choked in the lead
for the first two laps, missed
the smash, but almost went
down with fatigue. Illawarra
Wrack went on to win the run,
and all eyes were On the way he
went to the post; he’s back to
his best.
Only for his glossy dark bay
coat and intelligent head, Frosty
Nelson could pass for a plough-
horse ; he’s wide across the
shoulders and loins, solidly-
built all over, a foot between the
eyes. He led in the second heat,
to be beaten-off in the straight
by Active Ayr; but he wasn’t
knocked about, and the run will
bring him right on to his best,
Active Ayr jumped away and,
for once, did everything right;
he’s fined-down to best racing
nick now, and if he continues
to put the right foot forward
he’ll take a ton of beating in the
big run.
l
' '
Everybody else having picked
a team f or England, today (Wed-
nesday) the three Australian
selectors are due to pick their
team—and it’s the one that
counts. Whoever’s in or who-
ever’s been left out, it won’t
please everyone; but still it
should stand as good a chance
as any other possible combina-
tion to bring back the Ashes,
....
VTCAI7 ~ , * .
defeated Victoria in
Sydney by 75 runs on the first
inmngs (N.&W., 415, 7-121 ;
Y 1C ;» 300). When the last
day s play began the Victorians
appeared to be heading for out-
defeat; at the close they
were “fading for outright vic-
toFY\ f m( >ral win
wmch doesnt, of course, earn
P oints -
N.S.W. was set 226 to get in
145 min.—a stiff task, and one
which it never looked like
achieving, despite some attack
on the bowling by Benaud and,
to a lesser extent, Carroll. It
was a different story in Nov.,
1950, on the same ground, when
Queensland set N.S.W. one run
less, 225, to get in 13lmin. Miller
(138 not-out) and Morris (78 not-
out), with sundries 9, got them
without loss of a wicket and
with llmin. to spare.
New Queensland opening-
batsman Rod Lyons made a
century (102) against Victoria in
his first Shield game. A con-
sistent run-getter for years with
Norths, he reached his hundred
by a means seldom chosen—
a six, straight-driven down the
ground. Lyons should help to
solve the first of Queensland’s
two main weaknesses this year—
lack of good openers and lack
of good spin-bowlers.
* * *
Australia is sending a tennis-
team of five overseas this year—
Rosewall (N.S.W.), Cooper and
Fraser (Vic.) and. Emerson and
Anderson (Q.). The first three
went last year, Emerson went in
1954 but missed a place last year,
while this is Anderson’s first
tour in the official team.
Hoad and Rose were un-
available. Also unavailable,
as captain, was Harry Hop-
man, who has taken away every
team since 1950 —but he is avail-
able for, and has rightly already
been appointed captain of, the
Davis Cup team for the next
challenge-round, in Adelaide in
December.
When he beat Rosewall,
6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5, and won his
first Australian title, Hoad also
got in the first leg of the big-
four titles —Australian, French,
Wimbledon and U.S. American
Donald Budge, in 1938, is so far
the ofily winner in the one year
of the “grand slam.” Hoad must
be given a good chance of taking
it out. With Rosewall as the
nearest contender, he’s the top
amateur playing today; and, in
fact, Rosewall looks the one
most likely to stop his run.
* * *
v Two Australian records set by
runners from other Dominions
at the 1938 Empire Games in
Sydney were broken last week.
In Melbourne Landy ran the
880yds. in lmin. 50.45ec., beat-
ing the New Zealander Vernon
Boot’s lmin. 51.4 sec. (Best
previous time by an Australian,
Don Macmillan’s lmin. 51.65ec.,
set last year). In Sydney Kevin
Gosper, in 47.25ec., beat
Canadian Bill Fritz’s 47.55ec.
(Best previous time by an Aus-
tralian, 47.65ec., set by Morris
Curotta and Edwin Carr.)
Made in the same week as
Landy’s 3min. 58.6 sec. mile and
Stephens’s world six-mile record,
and to some extent eclipsed by
them, two world-record back-
stroke-swims by young Queens-
lander David Theile. In a heat
of the 100-metres in the State
championships, he swam 64.75ec.,
.4sec. better than the previous
world-record for a long-course
pool; in the final he reduced it
to 64sec. Both of his times are
better than the Olympic record
of 65.45ec. Theile is the first
Australian to set a world back-
stroke record.
V
“K.R.”: When Dave Stephens
made his world six-mile record
recently he became the first Aus-
tralian to hold a world-record
for a distance-run of more than
a mile. Australia now has five
senior world-record holders in
athletics —besides Stephens, John
Landy (mile and 1500 metres),
Hector Hogan (100yds. and 100
metres both jointly held),
Marjorie Jackson (100yds. and
200 metres, perhaps still the
220yds. an East German,
Christa Stubnick, was claimed
last May to have clipped .2sec.
off her record, but the I.A.A.F.
has not yet recognised the new
time) and Shirley Strickland (100
metres, made in Warsaw last
August).
* * *
Melbourne lightweight Johnny
Wheeler (9.6) was too classy for
Max Simpson (9.3) at Leichhardt
Stadium. Max started aggres-
sively, but, after losing the first
four rounds, Johnny took charge,
and was so far in front at the
end of round-12 that ref. Vic
Patrick had to count up the
points on an adding-machine.


w h lc h I still find the most sahs
fyi ng form of literary exp -
s ion, until the book-bug beg _
to nibble at me. Now 1 c
s top, even though I did manage
fi ve years of rather restless rest
from l.
Today l’ m really sunk. Ino
onger have even a Common-
wealth Grant of a bit under
the basic wag£j an d I can’t stop
thinking about my next novel.
is the one j once threatened
Bulletin readers that I’d get
around to one of these days,
cabed “The Brides Go Home.”
j won’t be happy until I’ve com-
mdded it.
TT , fb : ust finished is
S uccSsM I’ll be on the
treadmill again working like
about 40 hours a week to
a livine and working like
another 12 hours to write
, . and another six or so
’ sbor t_ s t or i es i can’t
, either
® *
Some people have to write
books, of course, and I seem to
be one. But you don t get the
habit if you never start. Ana,
the disease being what it is, it s
only common-sense to resist it
you can.
Queensland Small-former's Story
Weekend Stall
By A. HOLDER
THE hundred pines in the
utility looked a pitifully
small return for the week's
picking, and the fact that
they might (or more likely might
not) bring £2 10s. at the cannery
didn’t tend to raise cheerful
houghts. The ute was drawn-up
beside the open-air packing-
bench, and the task of “topping
and tailing” about to begin when
the stranger came in. He wanted
to buy pineapples, and four
“firsts” changed hands for 6s.
That started it. The rest of
the pines never saw the cannery ;
they were peddled on the road-
side and netted £7' 10s.
In the twelve-months since
those first four pines changed
hands we (my wife and I) have
become regular “weekend road-
siders”; members of that pre-
cariously-living fraternity who
sell their home-grown wares
direct from farm to producer,
free of the encumbrance of price-
fixers and the various regulations
which make the normal retailer’s
life an ulcer-specialist’s paradise.
The law in our State has it that
the producer may sell direct to
the consumer at whatever price
is mutually agreed on, so we
based our prices on wholesale-
market values. This cuts both
ways—advantageous to the seller
in that he has no cases to buy,
no transport to pay for, no time
lost delivering to the market, and
no 10 per cent, commission to
pay to the agent. The buyer gets
fresh fruit and vegetables right
from the garden or orchard at a
price well below what is normally
paid over the counter.
After two months we gradu-
ated from back-of-the-ute to a
portable stall with a gay canvas
roof, and pawpaws, pumpkins
and bananas were added to the
pines. The takings rose accord-
ingly, and soon we became
“established,” with regulars who
drove the 10 miles from town
each weekend to get their family -
supply of fruit.
We had one inflexible rule:
“If in doubt, throw it out.” So
no speckled, sunburned or
damaged fruit found its way to
our counter, and from being
rather shy “roadsiders” we
became seasoned vendors, ready
with good fruit and a cheery
word for any customers —at least
so we thought!
I struck my first snag when the
cannery folded-up and pines were
almost given away, even a big
six-pounder being hard to sell
at 2s. and two- to three-pounders
bringing 6d. to 9d.
He came along in a Custom-
fine. Eyed the stall up and down
and loftily pointed at the one-
and-six line.
“Get ’em for sixpence down
on the Palmerston,” he said.
“How much bananas?”
“Fivepence a pound.”
“Get ’em fourpence down on
the Palmerston.” Another im-
perious jab of the finger. “How
much pumpkin?”
“Threepence a pound.”
“Twopence a pound down on
the Palmerston.”
Now, I know the Palmerston.
It’s a hundred miles away from
my place; farmers there are
more-or-less isolated, and I
could understand them selling
their produce well under market-
price to get quick cash-money.
But pumpkins at that time were
bringing sd. a pound on the
market, and any producer would
send them to the agent rather
than peddle them if he had
quantity. My dozen or so were
self-sets off a windrow, and I
wanted to clear them quickly.
“Mister,” I said, “you have a
damn’ nice car, there’s a bitumen
road all the way to the Palmer-
ston, so why not take your
blanky car and go there and not
waste my time, because I
wouldn’t sell you a bloody half-
ripe tomato now.”
Hardly Dale Carnegie. After
that my wife took the stall over,
and I became the offsider, baby-
minding, cooking, bringing fresh
supplies and being generally
useful.
It was when the pines went off
that my wife started jam-making.
Murraysiders, her family have
considered it a personal
disgrace to buy jam in
tins, and jam-making is
second-nature to the girls.
Seville, cumquat, sweet-orange,
lemon, pineapple, pawpaw-pine-
and-ginger, pawpaw-and-passion-
fruit, granadilla, rosella, all lined
up, and, what is more, they took-
on. Sales, even with o u t
the pines, became constant,
and regulars more regular.
Despite overdrafts, bank-
managers and other pests, we
lived without the man-of-the-
house having to leave the place
to work.
“ You’ll hear from my solicitors about this, madam.”
And we learned to know the
public—my wife first; and later,
after I had expiated my disgrace,
solemnly sworn to forswear all
nautical language despite well-
tattooed arms, and behave like
a gentleman, I also learned to
know and appreciate that hetero-
geneous conglomeration of
humanity.
Like the bloke on the motor-
bike who would yarn for an hour
on end of the bird-life in the
district, quote the classics freely,
show a profitable taste for pine-
apple-jam, but complained that
his occupation as a wharfie
didn * t allow much time for
nature _ study
Qr old Mrs. Choom. “Eh,
Luv , Are tbese eggs f resb ? Do
yer keep yer own fowls? Well,
y er won’t mind slippin’ hup to
the ’en-run and gettin’ me arf-
a-dozen brown ones.”
As our fowls are Leghorns I
couldn’t oblige, and Mrs. Choom
cast doubts as to whether we
kept fowls, whether the eggs were
fresh and whether the fruit was
grown on the place, and on
everything and anything about
the stall in general. Her next
demand was for a soft-drink, a
line we don’t carry, as we refuse
to sell anything not produced on
the place. Facetiously I suggested
a glass of milk, but as this drink
was produced by a goat it didn’t
come up to Mrs. Choom’s
requirements. Pineapples were
too dear, too.
“Two-bob for a puny thing
that size! ” she said.
Dale Carnegie took a holiday.
“Tha’d pay a damn’ sight more
for it on’t whoal-saale market i’
Manchester,” I said in 28-year-
old Lancashire accent.
The ice was melted, and Mrs.
Choom is now a regular.
New Australian canecutters
are good—when they can stop
being Temporary Australians
and get off their motor-bikes.
They pick the biggest and best
of everything regardless of cost,
and however little they know
the language they know just how
many pennies make a shilling,
and how many shillings make a
pound.
Some weeks ago a late-model
car pulled-up. The driver called
his requirements from the seat,
and soon over a pound’s-worth
of produce was piled against the
nylon-leather cushions of the
back-seat. I noticed that the
driving-wheel had some strange
attachments, and as I gave him
change the fact that he was
minus a leg became apparent.
“Remember me?” he said.
I couldn’t recall the face and
told him so. “We get so many
people out here,” I explained.
“Remember the bloke who
overturned on your corner-peg?”
he smiled.
it happened two years ago at
2 a.m. on a bitterly cold morn-
ing. A speeding car and a wet
road. A neighbor called me out
to help before the ambulance
arrived, and I gave the tangled,
mangled wreck in the wreckage
about two hours to live. As we
lifted him, trilene-drugged, into
the ambulance my hand went
through the maimed thigh, and
we had to halt while I got the
“buttock-hold.”
Two years, and he’s driving
again. Another regular.
Nursery-plants are good trad-
ing too, and many home-
gardeners take pawpaw-, com-
quat- or granadilla-plants for
their gardens. Pawpaw, passion-
fruit and cumquat retail in tms at
Is. 6d., but granadillas are up to
3s. 6d. During the Royal visit
some of our granadillas were
selected for the Queen’s basket
at the Royal banquet in Brisbane.
Seeds from that vine have been
carefully husbanded, and many a
northern garden proudly boasts
a vine “from the Queen’s
basket.”
We have learned to estimate
the market by reading advertise-
ments in the daily paper. A
Church fete means a fall-off in
jam-sales. A picnic at a beach
lower down the road than our
stall means a general fall-off
in sales, one at a beach higher
means a consequent rise in
takings, provided the organisers
don’t hire omnibuses to take the
employees out.
A canefarmer who sold his
melons (a catch crop) at less than
market-price meant a loss of £5
on the day to our stall. Drunks
are problematical. They may
spend a pound or they may
spend two-shillings. Recently I
unloaded the truck, went to the
barn and got tow-ropes, and
dragged a ditched drunk on to
the road again. He bought 45.-
worth of bananas and forgot to
say “thank-you!”
A youth with a “bomb” took
two hours of my time, borrowed
my tool-kit, about syds. of
copper-wire and a coil (taken
from the spare utility), and to
my suggestion that a membership
in the R.A.C.Q. would be a
help, replied : “Waste of money.
Someone always helps you out!”
He didn’t buy anything.
And what goes on behind the
stall? It looks so easy when you
see someone on the roadside with
a stall laden with fresh produce.
Does it pay? Why do they
do it?
Firstly, most “roadsiders” are
beginners on the land. Most,
if not all, have assets but no
ready cash, and —even before the
bank-manager—the butcher and
baker must be satisfied. A stall
provides, even though in small
quantity, that very essential
lubricant for the wheels of the
farm —cash-money.
If the stall is run on Sundays
only, it means rising well before
dawn and being out in the pad-
dock when it s just light enough
to see, because the public like
their fruit and vegetables fresh.
The stall has to be set-up,
laid-out attractively, and the
attendant clean and smart by
9 a.m. Fruit must be handled
as little as possible, because any
carryover is packed and hits the
agent at 8 a.m. on Monday, to
hawked by professional
*
Three nights a week are spent
in jam-making and -bottling.
Bottles are labelled with type-
written slips stating the kind of
jam and the price, and many
the dozen “Pawpaw Pme and
Ginger 2/3” has this machine
I’m now using tapped off.
At all times the stall must be
clean and the approaches tidy,
The council scores off me in
that direction, as I run the
power-mower for a quarter of a
mile along each side of the road
each fortnight.
It means working all week on
the farm, doing the normal jobs
to develop the land, and then
making a fourteen-hour day of
Sunday to give the public good,
wholesome fruit and vegetables
at a price which fits conveniently
into the basic wage. Most of our
regular clients are working-folk,
The Chevs (1935 vintages),
Model-“A” ’s, the converted
limousines, the boss’s truck out
for the weekend—all these are
good spenders, because they
know that they’re getting good
value for the money.
Our niggliest client drove up
in a super-dooper convertible,
prodded, pinched, and poked
everything on the stall and then
bought —one passionfruit!
The farmer who sells only
what he grows can make a
moderate thing out of his week-
end stall. The chap who gets
big notions and starts “buying-
in” usually comes a cropper,
maSnly because he’s dealing in
perishables. Twelve rotten apples
in a case will wipe the profits off.
Lettuce bought at the market on
Friday will be well and truly
wilted by Sunday and only fit
for fowl-feed by Monday. Soft-
drinks require a refrigerator or
ice-box, and for a one-day stand
this isn’t economic.
If buying-in has to be done,
it’s best to buy from a neighbor
who has a surplus. The produce
can then be picked on the day
it is sold, and will be still fresh
enough to market on Monday if
unsold on the stall. But buying-
in from the market is a good
way to go broke if you’re a road-
sider.
How to be successful on a
stall? “If in doubt —throw it out”
before you set the stall up. Noth-
ing looks worse than rejects, even
if boxed, around a roadside stall.
Secondly, apply this acid test:
“If I were the buyer, would /
take it?”
When pawpaws have been
light-on in supply we have often
been tempted to ring-in a dozen
or two windblown ones, but have
always applied the foregoing
rules, sometimes to our immedi-
ate financial loss; but it pays
in the long run.
One Sunday saw a “Sun Girl”
competition at a beach lower
down the road. At 10 a.m.
takings were 10s. 9d. At 3 p.m.
245. 9d. But we closed the stall
at 6.45 sold-out, with a record
day’s takings—over £l5. The
regulars, having had good,
wholesome fruit at reasonable
prices for the past year, streamed
out in force an extra seven miles
to get their supplies after the
day’s events were finished.
If you’re fair to the public,
they’ll be fair to you.
How does it affect the stall-
holder? A year ago I told a
bloke to take his damn’ car and
go down the Palmerston. Last
Sunday I listened to a religious
harangue by two earnest youths
who had a “message ’ to deliver,
especially to Sabbath-breakers.
I listened.
I sold them five-bob’s-worth of
fruit.
See what X mean?j


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS CHS
O'SWW^. y
wxua.vyV
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
, Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Unless you
deny yourself
The prevailing idea of millions
today is: “How can I enjoy
myself?” All too often, work is
grudgingly done.
In February Reader’s Digest
famed author A. J. Cronin shows
why character cannot be built,
or anything of real value ever
be accomplished, without self-
discipline; and why the surest
path to true success and happiness
is in learning to do without.
Then you’ll read “Courage is
not a sometime thing,” “Billy
Graham’s strangest prayer,'
“Miracle of your muscles,
“This union gives more to the
boss.” Don’t miss February
Reader’s Digest, on sale now—
2/- at all newsagents and book-
stalls. It’s the most popular
reading of the month.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN SURVEY
WHILE most overseas corres-
pondents are unanimous in
their appraisal of West Ger-
many’s vigorous post - war
recovery, there is less certainty
in the overall assessment of
Japan’s position.
On some points, of course,
there is no argument. As writers
like James Nelson Goodsell
(New York “Herald Tribune”)
and Hessell Tiltman (“Man-
chester Guardian”) point out,
Japan, of less area than Cali-
fornia and only 17 per cent, of
it arable land, is close to burst-
ing-pressure with 90,000,000
people, making it the world’s
fifth most-populous nation.
The density of population is
,now 4500 people per square mile
of arable land.
On the population problem,
Goodsell reports that the pre-
sent figure includes 40,000,000
persons under 20 years of age,
and that, at the present rate of
increase, the population will
probably exceed 100,000,000 by
1970, possibly tapering-off at a
peak of about 110,000,000 in
1985.
Suggested solutions emigra-
tion to Brazil and birth-control
have been proposed—do not
appear to have much chance of
success, and, Goodsell adds, “a
recent Japanese Government
White Paper suggests that the
only means by which Japan can
solve the problem of supporting
its increased population is by
developing to the utmost
resources available at home,
expanding overseas trade and
reversing present unfavorable
trade-balances. This, the report
concludes, will enable ‘the
country to stand on its own
feet.’ ”
Turning from population to
the economic picture, Tiltman
comments that last year (1955)
was “the better year the country
had long waited for”:
“The nation’s rich rice-harvest
totalled around 400,000,000
bushels 70,000,000 bushels
above the average and an all-
time record. Industrial produc-
tion was up 13 per cent, over
1954. Steel-production rose
18.1 per cent., and in the ship-
yards the tonnage of vessels on
which construction was started
during 1955 was up 530 per
cent, over the previous year,
with another nearly two-million
tons of ships contracted for and
not yet on the ways.”
The picture is not completely
sunny, however, Tiltman adds.
“In spite of industrial produc-
tion running at 85 per cent,
above the 1934-46 average, the
country’s exports are still only
54 per cent, of pre-war volume
(compared with imports of 77
per cent, of pre-war), and the
vexed question of the nation’s
trade with the Chinese main-
land, an issue which exercises a
profound sentimental impact
upon the average Japanese
mind, remains unsolved. „
“Exports to Communist
China for the first half of 1955
were three times above the same
New York “Herald Tribune”
A WORD TO THE FAITHFUL
period of 1954, and imports
doubled. But that trade still
represents only fractionally
more than 2 per cent, of the
country’s total foreign com-
merce. Osaka blames the
United Nations embargo ; more
objective observers place at least
a share of the blame on Peking’s
determination to link trade with
politics.”
Despite these difficulties, Tilt-
man concludes, “it is well to
remember the remarkable fact
that, thanks partly to American
dollar-transfusions, but also
largely to the skills and energies
of the farming and fishing half
of the nation’s' families, Japan
is today on the whole the best-
fed, best-dressed and healthiest
country in Asia.”
Another U.S. writer (Foster
Dailey in “New York Times”)
notes a marching prosperity in
Japan. He lists 10 facts as
evidence: an indicated favor-
able trade balance of $5OO
million for 1955-56 ; an excess
of money in the banks and a
lowering of interest-rates; the
bumper rice-crop, mentioned by
Tiltman, which “has brought a
drop in the price of rice, but an
increase of income to the
farmer”; an estimated 10 per
cent, increase in coal-production
for 1955; a probable balanced
Budget for 1956 ; an indicated
investment in industrial equip-
ment and facilities in 1955 of
$2166 million ; a manufacturing-
and-production index now at
200.9 compared with 100 in
1950 ; an increasing demand for
coal and stockpile-goods, even
if there is no increase in exports
or home-consumption ; an easing
of the power-shortage by an
increase in generation-capacity;
an 8 per cent, increase in real
wages for Japanese workers due
to profit-sharing bonuses.
“The leaders of Japan’s
economic upsurge,” Dailey adds,
“have been shipbuilding and the
iron-and-steel industry”:
“Shipbuilding has passed tex-
tiles as Japan’s biggest export.
Japan now is the biggest exporter
of ships in the world. She passed
Britain this year. And she was
third in 1955 in total ship-pro-
duction, exceeded only by
Britain and West Germany. In
1954 Japan was seventh.”
One significant fact, Dailey
notes, is that the pessimistic
prophecies of a collapse as
American spending in Japan
eased-off have not been ful-
filled:
“United States spending for
the maintenance of its more than
650 bases and its Army, Air
Force and Navy personnel here
[Japan] has dropped-off now to
an average of about $16,000,000
a month from a Korean-war
peak of $80,000,000. But the
Japanese have discovered that
they can exist without it, and
are delighted at the discovery.”
Dailey nominates the textile-
industry as “the one gloomy
spot in the Japanese economy”:
“It suffered a serious 10-day
strike in October that cut back
production. Furthermore, in-
creasing opposition in the
United States to the importation
of cheap Japanese textiles and
garments brought a halt to all
such exports in late November.”
Whatever difficulties it may
have, however, Japan’s textile-
industry is by no means sickly.
A survey in the International
Wool Secretariat’s “World Wool
Digest” (reprinted by Bradford
“Wool Record”) comments that
Japanese competition for sup-
plies at Australian sales indi-
cate that “the Japanese wool-
textile industry has returned to
the course of post-war recovery
from which it deviated in 1954”:
“Until last year there had
been a substantial increase in
wool-textile production each
year, and such figures as are
available for 1955 suggest that
output will not only be greater
than in 1954 but will exceed the
1953 level.
“The recovery of the wool-
textile industry has been charac-
terised by an improvement in
the quality, as well as the
quantity, of its products. At
first the proportions of virgin
wool which could be used were
severely restricted and manu-
facturers were compelled to use
large quantities of other
materials, principally shoddy.
“In 1948 virgin wool repre-
sented little more than a fifth
of the fibres used in the wool-
textile industry, but the propor-
tion improved as larger supplies
became available.
“Until 1953 the growth of
the industry had been based
almost entirely on the demand
of the home-market. The
Japanese population had risen
from 70-million in 1938 to 87-
million in 1953 (and now has
reached 90-million), and per
capita wool-consumption, which
had been under lib. in v 1938,
and had fallen to 0.21 b. in 1948,
had soared to 1.51 b. in 1953.
“Whether the progress of the
Japanese industry can continue
appears to depend on raw-
material supplies and on markets
for finished goods. The former
is mainly a question of the avail-
ability of sterling, since Japanese
machinery is adapted to Aus-
tralian Merino wool, and con-
siderable difficulties were en-
countered in substituting South
American growths last year.
“Markets for finished goods
may be sought at home and over-
seas. A growing population
should provide an expanding
home-market if per capita in-
comes can be maintained, but
the rate of population-growth is
slower than that exhibited by
the wool-textile industry, and
Japanese manufacturers are
showing great interest in foreign
markets.
“Before the war Japan’s main
outlets for wool-textiles were
India, China and Manchuria;
but India is now building-up its
own wool-textile industry be-
hind protective barriers, and
trade with the other markets is
inhibited by political considera-
tions. In recent years Japan’s
best wool - textile customers
have been Persia, South Africa,
the United States and Hong
Kong (the last being partly
entrepot trade). But it seems
probable that Japan will need
to develop other markets as
well if exports are to be further
increased.
“Japan’s admission into full
membership of Gatt should
assist this, though the signifi-
cance of that decision has been
reduced by the invocation by
several potential importing
countries of Article 35, which
permits them to withhold from
Japan the tariff-concessions
granted to other countries.
Elsewhere, a Candian corres-
pondent of the “Wool Record”
comments on a statement by a
Canadian delegation to Japan
which visited 25 mills in various
branches of the textile-industry
and interviewed more than 200
textile executives. “The group
was impressed by the energy,
intelligence and relative well-
being of the Japanese”:
“The urge to consolidate and
expand their export-trade was
evident on every hand. It was
noted that the conduct of
foreign trade, both imports and
exports, was under close Gov-
ernment supervision, and that
the business community in
general was keenly aware of the
pressure for exports as a national
policy.
“The textile-industry in Japan,
it was further noted, has about
reached a volume of output
equal to pre-war. The industry
was substantially dismantled
during the war, so that most of
its present capacity is new,
modern and efficient. This was
particularly true of that part in
which export - goods were
generally produced. Mills of
all types were visited and the
equipment was found to be, for
the most part, fully equal to
Western standards.
“With regard to labor, the
average hourly cost of factory
workers in 1954 was 14.9 cents,
which included all regular wages,
bonus payments and an ample
estimate of company expenses
for employee-housing, -food, etc.
The average wage in Canada in
1954 was one dollar and eight
cents. Labor costs appeared to
be in line with these wage-rates
judging from the labor utilisa-
tion and productivity standards
observed in the mills.
“The group also noted that
there has been a very consider-
able change in the types of tex-
tiles produced in Japan since
pre-war. More of the types of
textiles made in Japan are now
consistent with textiles used in
America and Europe, there
having been a considerable up-
grading in the fineness of con-
struction and a marked change
toward Western types.
“The general quality-standards
also appear to be quite high,
and original design is often
evident. All the innovations of
the last decade in new fibres,
new processes and new finishes
appear to be present in the
Japanese industry, and, in
general terms, it would be diffi-
cult to locate any type of textile
used in America that could not
be produced in Japan.
“The statement concludes by
affirming that the levels of ex-
port selling-prices in Japan have
led to recovery of the country’s
position as the world’s largest
textile-exporters. These export
efforts are furthered by Govern-
ment-control and -assistance
measures, which involve small
amounts of subsidy. It is the
control-features, however, which
are most important, because of
the pressure they put behind
export volume.”
Frence
Comment from five countries
on the French elections, which
returned 150 Communist
Deputies at one extreme, 52
Poujadistes at the other and, in
the centre, 181 non-Communist
Left-wingers and 197 Con-
servatives :
Paris “L'A urore": “One
Frenchman out of three showed
that he was sick of the demo-
cratic system. This fact, which
has struck all foreign observers,
must be recognised by the un-
happy persons who are
responsible for our national
future.
“Faced with this grave turn in
political opinion, one might
expect the democratic parties to
be anxious to give back to the
French a taste for the regime
which has dangerously lost its
former prestige.
“But there is no sign of this.
Without waiting for the opening
of Parliament, they are getting
ready to give us, on the con-
trary, the saddening spectacle of
the evil which affects them:
powerlessness. They are power-
less to agree, powerless to build,
powerless to govern.
“While one-third of the elec-
torate questions the regime and
the principles of freedom which
are connected with it, the others
are giving priority to the grati-
fication of personal grudges.”
Geneva ‘‘Journal de Geneve”:
“The Poujadistes are not hostile
to the republican regime itself.
With the exception of two
students and one chemist, the
Poujadiste Deputies are com-
posed entirely of small-scale
industrialists, shopkeepers and
artisans ; in a word, people who
are in daily contact with the
ordinary difficulties of life.
“The fact that they are able
to speak on behalf of 2,500,000
electors is proof that in the
French petite bourgeoisie there
exists a considerable degree of
uneasiness. However, on talk-
ing to the Poujadiste leaders, we
were struck by the fact that
they were not only concerned
with their own material interests.
They deplored the fact that
through its weakness the French
Government had often lowered


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies , * 2\ r
Yearly 22/6
--+•
a
r””
02
am.
o' »
rm
(YV 1
nrn
/rWN
rm
orn
rr*'
<yyy
'TYi
a-
_ • • #
4-*---
-H
OPQPPO
b o q n «
t» t» t> ta o
'VV*
f*
AVIATION
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
France in the eyes of foreigners.
One of them stated that they
found it unacceptable that the
idea of a European Army,
originally conceived in France,
should have been sabotaged by
Parliament. A great Power
cannot afford itself this sort of
luxury.
“Thus it will be well in the
new Parliament not to treat
these 52 Deputies lightly or
scornfully merely because they
are tyros in the political world.
Part of French opinion is behind
them —a whole mass of good
folk who are the very backbone
of a nation.”
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The 52 Poujadistes owe their
seats in the National Assembly
to the votes of the petite
bourgeoisie. It was precisely
this class—the small provincial
lawyers, shopkeepers and
farmers—who were responsible
for the first French Revolution.
They still remain, numerically
at least, a formidable factor in
French politics, although they
have been overshadowed by the
far more highly organised
industrial workers. If they
rally to M. Poujade and
responsible French commenta-
tors believe that if a new elec-
tion were to be held tomorrow
the party would gain 200 seats —
a new Revolution (or at least a
complete transformation of
French politics) is far from
impossible.”
Diisseldorf “Industriekurier” :
“The prospects for a quick and
good solution of the Saar
problem will not be improved
if a weak and insecure Govern-
ment takes power in Paris.
Moreover, a France where
everything is in confusion
exercises still less power of
attraction for the Germans in
the Saar than has been the case
before. There is not a single
Communist sitting in the Bonn
Parliament, while the number of
Communists in the French
National Assembly has risen to
150.”
“U.S. News and World
Report”: “The ‘mess’ in Paris
threatens to weaken further an
ally which the U.S. regards as
the key to Western defences
against Communist expansion—
military and political. The U.S.
has furnished France $5500-
million-worth of economic aid
and nearly an equal amount of
military aid since the end of
World War II.”
Adenauer
Chancellor of West Germany
Dr. Konrad Adenauer and Presi-
dent of East Germany Wilhelm
Pieck both passed the 80-mark
early in the New Year and were
accorded public well-wishing and
appropriate greetings from their
respective sides of the Iron
Curtain.
Comparing the occasions, Lon-
don “Spectator” notes that “the
two birthdays came after a
Christmas which was celebrated
in the West with a gusto un-
equalled since the war, while
Eastern Germany was stiff suffer-
ing from coal-shortages and
food - rationing. And Dr.
Adenauer has a number of divi-
sions which did not appear on
parade alongside the rather
scrappy military band in the
Chancery garden.
“These are a stable political
system, a hard mark and the
confidence of a powerful West-
ern affiance. The Kremlin, on
FRENCH CAN’T-CAN'T
London “Daily Mirror ”
the other hand, knows just how
reliable President Pieck’s State
is from the June riots of 1953
and from the daily flood of
refugees fleeing military con-
scription and a bankrupt
economy.
“There is one more feature
which the two States have in
common. The same team of men
has, with minor adjustments,
controlled each Government
since their foundations in 1949.
None of the great Powers can
claim such continuity. The
further continuity of the East
German Government seems as-
sured by Herr Uloricht and Herr
Grotewohl, both much younger
men than Pieck. Western Ger-
many’s political future seemed
in doubt last year when Dr.
Adenauer was ailing. But the
new year has brought two en-
couraging facts: Dr. Adenauer’s
remarkable convalescence and
the emergence of Herr von Bren-
tano as his obvious political
heir.’’
An editorial tribute to Ade-
nauer in “New York Times” ob-
serves that “he rose to inter-
national prominence only seven
years ago, but in these seven
years he has become the ‘Grand
Old Man’ of Germany. He is,
however, more than that; he is
a good and great European. In
both these capacities he is one of
the foundation-rocks on which
the new Germany and the new
Europe are being built.”
In the course of a more
lengthy salutation in London
“Contemporary Review,” Frank
Eyck comments that “few great
men in history have had to wait
till the age of 73 fpr their great
opportunity. Like other men
who had achieved important
positions during the Weimar Re-
public, Adenauer was dismissed
from his office as Burgomaster of
Cologne by the National-Social-
ists in 1933. At 57, other men
might have accepted the inevita-
bility of eclipse. But this was
contrary to Adenauer’s nature.
With amazing determination he
managed to survive all the trials
and tribulations of the Nazi
police State.
“He refused to emigrate. Later,
in 1945 —now nearly 70 —he was
not even deflected by what was
perhaps the bitterest pill of all,
his second dismissal from the
Mayorship of Cologne, this time
by the British occupation-
authorities. The name of the
British brigadier who signed the
order of dismissal on the grounds
that the Mayor had shown in-
sufficient energy and had not
done his duty towards the popu-
lation has long been forgotten.
“What Adenauer has achieved
is remarkable. He has blended
nationalism and internationalism
in a most successful way. Nobody
can deny him his title of a
genuinely ‘national’ statesman,
not even in Germany, where
charges of failing in this direc-
tion have always been bandied
about with the greatest irrespon-
sibility, At the same time, his
programme has been thoroughly
international, helping to achieve
an unprecedented integration
with Western Europe.”
Soviet Censorship
Sidelights on Soviet press- and
book-censorship, gathered by
“U.S. News and World Report”
in an interview with two former
Russian journalists now work-
ing in and for the U.S.:
Mikhail Koriakov on press-
censorship : “It is all done very
methodically, in several stages.
“Suppose I am working for a
Soviet newspaper and I write an
article on agriculture. First, I
show it to the chief of the agri-
cultural department on the
editorial board. He goes over
it, makes changes, and possibly
even tells me to rewrite it.
“Then he gives it to a man
who has the title of ‘responsible-
secretary’ of the editorial board
—the equivalent of your
managing-editor who goes
over it again. Next, the article
goes to the print-shop, where
galley-proofs of the type are
run off. These are read by the
deputy-chief-editor and included
in the ‘dummy’ of the whole
paper.
“The next stage is the reading
of the page-proofs. A directive
of the party’s Central Committee
requires that every page-proof
be read by not fewer than six
‘responsible workers.’
“First, the page-proof is read
by the department-head, the
‘responsible - secretary,’ the
deputy-editor, the night-editor
and the editor-in-chief. These
people are almost always party-
members.
“Then, after it has been
checked by these five party-
faithfuls, the proof goes to the
sixth person —an inconspicuous
individual who is sometimes
referred to as the ‘political-
editor.’ He is the real, final
censor.
“He is rarely seen in the
editorial office. His office is
somewhere in the print-shop,
and he comes around only for
a few hours each night to read
the page-proofs arid the first
copy off the presses.
“When he approves the issue,
he affixes his seal to it and a
code-number composed of his
initial and several numerals:
B-10436, for example. That
code-number appears at the
bottom of the last page of every
Soviet newspaper. You’ll also
find it in every book and
periodical published in the
Soviet Union.”
Jurij Gudim-Levkovich on
book-censorship: “Books were
confiscated very often, especially
during the period of the big
purges in the 1930’5. If the
author of any book was arrested
as an ‘enemy of the people,’ his
book would be confiscated, no
matter how good it was.
“During the purges, an entire
edition of a large and valuable
book was destroyed. From the
title you would not think it was
a book to cause trouble. It was
called Works of the Mlievskaya
Experimental Fruit - growing
Station. You have to under-
stand Soviet conditions at that
time.
“This station conducted
experiments on a number of
collective-farms, including the
Postyshev collective-farm in
Kiev Province. That farm was
named after Postyshev, who was
second-secretary of the Ukrain-
ian Communist Party Central
Committee.
“Then Postyshev was purged
and the name of the farm was
changed to Kosior Collective-
farm in honor of Kosior, the
first-secretary of the Ukrainian
Central Committee. All the
pages of the book that men-
tioned the Postyshev collective-
farm were cut out and new
pages were pasted in to name the
farm after Kosior.
“All this took time, and by the
time it was finished Kosior, him-
self, had been liquidated.
Khrushchev replaced him as the
boss of the Ukraine. To do the
whole job all over again would
have mutilated the book beyond
recognition, so it was confiscated
and scrapped.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Aluminium
“Stromlo” (B. 14/12/’55) must wait a
few years before Bell Bay (Tas.) can
establish an ingot selling-price based on
its own economic production-cost.
Because of power-restrictions in Tas-
mania, the reduction-bays are operating
at less than quarter-capacity. The pro-
ject thus suffers with other large indus-
trial consumers and adds to the plant
worth millions of pounds idle throughout
the State.
The new Trevallyn power-station, built
at a cost of £lO million for the Bell Bay
project, has only seasonal capacity to its
full 112,000-h.p., and it will be lucky to
average 16,000-h.p.-hours output per year.
Bell Bay requires a continuous 42,000-
h.p. to produce 13,000 tons of ingot, and
there must be no interruptions. The
reduction-furnaces have a no-power life
of six hours. Should they freeze, it
would take nine months to dig them out
and replace the carbon linings.
Trevallyn draws its water from the
South Esk at Launceston, and has dried-
up the famous scenic gorge in the process.
The dam built above the Second Basin
impounds only sufficient water to cover
the penstocks and has less than 24 hours’
storage-capacity. It will be 1962 before
a diversion-scheme from the Great Lake
to the headwaters of the South Esk can
make Trevallyn a continuous-output
station. '
This will not help the rest of the State,
and Bell Bay would have to be conceded
priority over the other power-starved
industries to enter full production. Liti-
gation is threatened should this happen.
By world standards Bell Bay is only a
pilot-plant. Overcapitalised by about £3-
million, and with high-cost power and
raw-material, it cannot, at full output,
produce at less than £269 per ton. The
present market-rate is £229, delivered in
mainland cities.
On the present reduced output the cost
must be well over £3OO. The taxpayer
will be called upon for help for quite a
few years.
At one stage administration was m
Sydney,. the design-office in Melbourne,
laboratories in Hobart, an accounts-
office in Launceston, and technical staff
floundering in the mud of Bell Bay. In
addition, there was a field-staff out search-
ing for bauxite.
Each division had a separate existence,
and much of the project’s troubles
can be traced to that. The only bright
spot in its history has been the speed
and efficiency of the actual building and
plant-erection and -installation. It was a
time-record for its size.
The 13,000-ton capacity was determined
by the fact that a war-time shadow
reduction-plant of this output had oper-
ated in Swansea, Wales, for a couple of
years ; it was part of the general factory-
dispersal plan and was closed-down as
uneconomic as soon as possible.
An aluminium-producer likes to have
his reduction-bays alongside his own
power-station. He likes to draw direct
current straight from his hydroelectric
generators, and not be burdened with
costly transmission-lines, transformers and
"I've located him, Inspector. Watch his movements?
Certainly, Inspector."
rectifiers. The Swansea furnaces were
snapped-up, but no one was interested
in the a.c./d.c. electricals. The commis-
sion bought the lot from disposals, and
Bell Bay was designed around this war-
time equipment. .
Much of the aluminium-plant intended
by Hitler to operate in Norway was also
purchased. Though good plant, it was a
costly buy because of the high handling-
and freight-charges for such bulky
tonnages.
In the transition between war- and
peace-time production, Australian manu-
facturers could have handled the whole
project and saved millions. They would
have been glad to have had the orders at
that time. , , , ~
Tasmania was selected for the establish-
ment of the industry on the offer of cheap
power, a bauxite deposit at St. Leonards,
near Launceston, and deep-water
facilities.
Power is now neither cheap nor plenti-
ful. The St. Leonards bauxite turned out
to be a mono-hydrate type, too costly to
process, and the local wharfies are seeing
to it that not much use is made of the
deep-water facilities.
The company formed by the Common-
wealth Government and the British
Aluminium people is well ahead with its
plans to build a huge plant in New
Guinea. No doubt when this show is
producing, Bell Bay will be quietly
closed and put into mothballs for emer-
gency use only. Certainly there are no
favorable Tassie factors at present to
justify its continuance, not even if it were
expanded to a 24,000-ton output, which
is the minimum payable capacity of an
aluminium-producer in this country.
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Where Mags. Go Wrong
I never read a copy of the Australian
“Boy,” because I belong to the era of
the “Gem” and the “Magnet” in their
heyday, but 15-year-old “Peter,” with his
clear, intelligent statement of what he
thought was wrong with “Boy” (B.
25 /1/’56), goes right to the heart of what
has been the downfall of many Australian
magazines.
In my time I have worked for and
contributed to a number of magazines
that suffered “Boy’s” fate for the very
reason he gives for the decline in its
popularity. They reached the stage
where, if they cost Is., they offered a
penn’orth on a dozen things, but not a
bob’s-worth of anything.
Proprietors, rather than editors, were
usually to blame. The apparent popularity
of any hobby or interest under the sun
got it a page or two, regularly and in
every issue. This happened even faster if
advertising depended on a regular section
on, say, “Drain Cleaning the Atomic
Way.” The stuff that fascinated a few
people crowded out the material that
pleased many.
Out of the magazine-field, but in an
allied one, it happened to the late
“Smith’s Weekly” years ago, when this
vigorously masculine paper, apparently
awed by the circulation-success of
women’s journals, decided that large slabs
of its space had to be devoted to the
women, the children, and so on. This
policy brought “Smith’s” to its lowest
condition, from which it was slowly
emerging when it was killed.
Even The Bulletin, I remember, went
in for a motoring-page and a radio-page
for a while, but soon realised the error
of its ways. The early, and present,
Bulletin belief that a man interested in
the affairs of the day is likely to be
interested also in the literature, art,
theatre and humor of the day (with a
corner of his mind left for sport and the
rural development of his country) is a
fairly sound one. The formula may not
produce world-record numbers of readers,
but it brings very faithful and thorough
ones.
In contrast, people are always starting
magazines which are to be “the ‘Saturday
“I'm telling you, Chief, it's the ruddy fire-engine that's on fire!"
Evening Post’ of Australia,” or the
‘“Colliers’ of Australia.” They seldom
seem to have noticed that neither the
“Saturday Evening Post” nor “Colliers”
ever has a “special section” on anything.
Nor does any other successful magazine
of which I know, anywhere in the world.
They just offer the best stories and articles
they can buy, and pay prices that will
get the best, with a few minor “depart-
ments” like “Letters,” “Editorials” and,
in one case, “Keeping Posted” (about the
contributors).
What Australia really needs is for some
magazine-proprietor to engage me as
“policy counsellor.” Or, if my price is
too high, the man could do worse than
appoint young “Peter” at about £l5OO a
year the minute he leaves school. —
Gavin Casey (N.S.W.).
Canada
Immigration has been in the news in
Canada because of the sudden drop of
about 30 per cent, in 1955. This is
serious, because the country s current
expansion is limited only by manpower.
As in Australia, it is realised that there
must be a falling-off in migration from
Europe because of improved economic
conditions there, but many people feel
that much still could be done to increase,
or at least maintain, the flow into
Canada. Prospective immigrants have
been deterred by reports of winter
unemployment, but an overhaul of exist-
ing laws could do much to improve
that. ,
The Government has already made
some moves. For the first time encourage-
ment is being given to winter immigrants,
though only to those who have a definite
guarantee of work. However, seasonal
unemployment cannot be ignored, and
there are many who object to a scheme
which brings more people at a time when
employment is at its lowest ebb.
In addition, the Canadian Government
has amended the assisted-passages
scheme, but, even with the changes, the
press has frequently made unfavorable
comparisons with Australia s scheme.
Canada’s assistance is in the form of a
loan, interest-free but repayable in
monthly instalments over a period of two
years. Immigrants have proved “good
financial risks” in the past, and the
number of repayments not made is less
than .25 per cent, of loans issued.
Formerly offered to a limited group, such
as teachers, nurses, domestic- and farm-
workers, the loan was not available to
help bring dependants. It is now to be
given to all types of workers “who are
suitable, desirable and adaptable, and
who would otherwise be unable to finance
the journey to Canada.” Intending
migrants and those already resident in
the country will also be allowed to
borrow money to bring their
dependants.
It is estimated that Canada’s
immigrants since the war have been in
the proportion of one Briton to every
three people of other extraction, while
Australia’s proportion is approximately
one to one. That is understandable when
it is realised that Canada’s population
has always been more mixed than the
Australian. This has given Canada a
greater wealth of cultures and, in many
ways, a more interesting national
character. It has also brought many
difficulties.
The two main divisions are, of course,
British and French. And, in spite of
being one nation, there is still division
among these people, who have, as one
writer puts it, ‘learned to live apart”
rather than together. Intermixed with
these two races are a large number of
all other European and Central European
peoples, as well as folk from China and
Japan and negroes who came via the U.S.
Although there is nothing similar to
the “white Australia policy,” there are
restrictions, and color-problems exist.
The national conscience will not admit to
such a thing, however, and recent dis-
crimination against a Dutch citizen of
partial Indonesian descent brought much
publicity until the lady was allowed to
accompany her husband into Canada.
Although Asians are no longer allowed
to enter, and the rat© of assimilation is
exceedingly slow, most Canadians have
nothing but respect for those Asians
already living in the country. — Patricia
Scott (Canada).
Indulgent Parents
A disturbing feature of this extravagant
and spendthrift age drew pointed com-
ment at several Melbourne school speech-
nights when principals urged parents to
restrict their children’s pocketmoney to
modest amounts.
In many instances* it was stated, over-
indulgent parents handed-out to their oft-
spring anything from £1 to £2 for casual
spending each week. No schoolchild
needs anything like such an amount to do
as he pleases with, and as many parents
are simply unable to afford more than a
few shillings, the disparity must create
feelings of dissatisfaction, and even
hostility.
My own lad, who attends a leading
Melbourne public school, has told me
that it is no unusual thing for a school-
mate, aged 14 or thereabouts, to produce
a pound-note at the tuckshop. When i
was there, anybody who had two-bob in
his pocket counted himself wealthy.
Admittedly, money-values have greatly
altered, but five-shillings or, at most,
seven-and-six would seem ample for any
youngster. .
More serious than the sheer wasteful-
ness of giving too much pocketmoney is
that it breeds the notion that money is
easily acquired and should be spent as i
comes. Parents who now complain abou
the thriftlessness of young people are
themselves largely responsible. The for-
tunate youngsters of today are those
whose parents cannot afford to give them
more than a small allowance ; experience
in managing on a modest budget wi
stand them in good stead when bad times
come, as they inevitably will, sooner o*
later. —D. J. G. (Vic.).


The Senate
Any change in electing the Senate
should make provision for elder states-
men. Members who give way on the
Ministerial level to younger colleagues
have to retain their seats—generally safe
ones —if they are to continue in politics.
In England such a member —Mr. Attlee
is the latest of a long line—can accept a
peerage and continue to give the country
the benefit of his long political experience,
while his Commons seat becomes avail-
able to a member with a political future.
A pity the framers of the Common-
wealth Constitution did not follow their
Canadian counterparts and adopt the prin-
ciple of life-nomination for Senate-
recruitment. That would have prevented
the Upper Chamber from being domin-
ated by political party-machines and
would have provided a haven for veteran
statesmen.
Reorganisation on those lines would be
politically impracticable today, but a rea-
sonable substitute would be to allow
retired Prime Ministers, Federal Minis-
ters, State Premiers and judges of the
High Court and State Supreme Courts to
speak in Senate debates, but not to vote.
It might be possible to make such a
change without a referendum.
The opinions of these elder statesmen
would be dictated by no party because
the parties would have no means of dis-
ciplining them and, while their words
would have little influence on the con-
duct of elective Senators pledged to follow
a party-line, they could have an important
effect on the attitudes of voters who are
not unthinking adherents of a political
party.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
School Discipline
Should children have corporal punish-
ment at school? •
Ask any harassed teacher with a class-
room bulging at the seams. His reply will
be, “How in the world can I cope with
forty or fifty little fiends without the
aid of a cane? Classes are overcrowded.
Child-psychology is a wonderful thing
when you are dealing with reasonable
numbers, but present-day classes are too
crowded to be reasonable.”
But for what childish crimes is the cane
to be used? Too often we hear, “I got
the cuts today ’cos I couldn’t do my
sums.” “The cuts” may relieve the
teacher’s exasperation, but I don’t see how
it will teach arithmetic. The same punish-
ment is meted out to latecomers and
chatterboxes, daydreamers and dullards.
The cane soon becomes a mute admission
of a teacher’s failure and incompetence
—“I can’t make them obey me.”
How much self-respect can a teacher
have when he realises that the class is
controlled, not by his personality and
ability, but by corporal punishment?
What are the opinions of the children
on the subject of corporal punishment?
They vary from “couldn’t care less” to a
reflected glory. Young Bill displays two
very red hands to his mates. “Look
what Old Stinky done! Six on each hand!
Bet you’d have yelled if it’d been you.”
And home he swaggers surrounded by a
crowd of admirers.
Would he have been thought so mighty
if, instead of a caning, his punishment
had been a curtailing of his sport for
that week? There is no glory in missing
football-practice, nor is it clever to be
dropped from a coveted team-position.
The docking of privileges and pleasures
is a better form of discipline than cor-
poral punishment.
Statistics on corporal punishment in
schools in Great Britain are illuminat-
ing. In Scotland teacher wields the strap ;
in England there is no strap. A survey
shows that the strap gingers up the young
Scots until the age of 10 years and they
appear to learn more than their English
counterparts. After that age the English
children surpass them and by 14 years of
age are well ahead of them. Maybe the
strap dulls the young Scots’ brains as well
as hardening the palms of their hands.
But why is the strap needed in the first
place? Mainly because the child is badly
behaved, and that stems from the fact
that its parents failed to subfnit it to
gentle, firm discipline before school-age.
How many parents have said at some
time or other, “I can’t do a thing with
him. I’ll be glad when he goes to school.”
If each five-year-old started school with
a working knowledge of obedience how
much simpler the teacher’s life would be.
All normal children are happy savages.
The place where they should be tamed
and taught their place in the community
is at home. — Sally Vernon (Vic.).
“Keem” (B. 4/l/’56) gives a fair-
enough picture of what happens in a
boys’ school when reasonable punishment
is banned. On his own the average lad
is a pretty decent citizen, but when the
teacher’s hands are tied, 40 of them in a
bunch can be fair young devils.
A chap I know teaches in a school
where, until lately, strict discipline was
maintained—let anyone play-up and he’d
get a Saturday-morning detention or six-
of-the-best where they hurt most. Over-
night the old pay-as-you-go system, with
punishments to fit the crime, was abol-
ished —and all the kindly new treatment
did was to throw the classes into a con-
stant uproar, which the masters were
powerless to prevent.
This teacher endured it for a week or
two, then decided he’d have to find a
method of getting control or seek an
easier job. He found the solution in a
magazine article, and, though it took
time to get it working, it’s acted like a
charm. He ceased appealing to* his
braves’ sense of honor and subtly in-
sinuated he was on their side against the
powers-that-be they - were - all - boys -
together sort of thing. It was his business
to get them on; if he didn’t —well, he’d
get the sack and Heaven knew who they
might get in his place!
He has to put up with a lot of famili-
arity (he’s called by his personal name by
the whole class), but in front of others
the boys’ behavior is excellent. Con-
gratulated by the headmaster on the
general improvement, he poured out the
story. The Old Man at first looked as
if he was going to have a fit, but then
burst out laughing. The teacher thought
this was near-enough to approval, and
carries-on with the system. — Maitri
(N.S.W.).
Nuts
Willunga (S.A.) has the largest almond-
growing area in Australia. Some 1500
acres are planted at present and more
trees go in every year. Moreover,
almond-growing is rather a pleasant
occupation. Therein lies the trap.
Farmers, graziers, dairymen, business-
men and others the world over have a
hankering to retire to a block in the
country. All they seek is a place not too
far from the city from which they can
earn a living; not too much work, and
no tight schedules to be kept. An
almond-block is about as close to that as
anyone can get.
The prospective grower makes a swift
calculation. That tree in my backyard,
he figures, yields £2-worth of nuts each
year. So 70 trees to the acre —that’s
£l4O. Twenty acres should bring £2BOO.
Not bad!
In practice, however, an orchard tree
gets neither the water nor the pro-
tection of its brother in the suburban
home. Most cities are built over soil
far too precious to have been covered
by brick and stone anyway, so again
the suburban garden gets a flying start.
“Notice the vibration when that aircraft passed over?"
Then, throughout thousands of acres
there are bound to be poor patches that
won’t grow what you want. Similarly,
you can’t plant 100 trees and expect
every one of them to be perfect, large,
full-bearing specimens.
There are also the seasons to contend
with. One orchardist this year, with
25 acres, is debating whether he wouldn’t
be better off driving a sand-truck for a
month and leave his almonds to fall,
rather than pay wages and knock the
few that are there. Another, with a
poor section of ground, got seven bags
in the shell last year from 10 acres, which
“It's Lover-boy !”
possibly realised him £6O. An owner of
14 acres of some of the best land in the
district told me that in the eight years
he has been there he hasn’t grossed £lOOO
yet.
None of which detracts from the kind
of life an almond-orchard can offer; it
serves only to draw the attention of the
uninitiated to what the crows, parrots,
magpies and finches already know —that
the husk and shell have to be cracked
open to reach the kernel. It’s the only
way to avoid being disappointed as you
slip out of the dream into the reality of
perfect retirement.— Nuttin’ (S.A.).
New Labor Leaders?
I sensed in “A.C.T.’s” comments on the
Labor-party debacle a kind of regretful
moan that Dr. Evatt had jeopardised his
political future. Why should we worry?
To a great many people the present
disunity of Labor is something to be
thankful for. The break is giving sen-
sible men time to think a little for them-
selves, instead of letting trade-union
leaders do all their thinking for them.
It is one of Australia’s misfortunes that
too many of its people are confined in
such a deep groove of class-prejudice
that they never in their working-lives
see over the edges of it. Nothing is more
wrong than the theory that leaders must
always be right, but it is just that theory
in action which, for years, has plunged
this country into never-ending industrial
strife and has built-up economic stresses
and difficulties we need never have
known.
We will continue to suffer so long as
organised Labor and its leaders are ego-
tistic enough to think that, in any indus-
trial dispute or demand, they alone must
be right.
Trade-unionism is full of moderates
and of men who have minds of their own,
given permission to use them. If this
split in the Labor party gives them a
chance to say and act as they think fit
new leaders may rise to take the place of
some of the present autocrats.
Some change is due and very neces-
sary, and instead of regretting the eclipse
of Dr. Evatt we should live in hope that
new leaders of Labor may bring the
broader view that it takes all sorts to
make a world —not only a hostile Labor
class. The country could well do without
leaders who promise more money for less
work, and think they can get away with
it.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
Organists
Just after I read the reply on the Ser-
vice Page to an inquiry regarding organ-
playing (B. 9/IP/’55) I read elsewhere
that “organists are a dying race.”
This was said by Mr. Donald White,
Director of Music for Brighton Grammar
School, near Melbourne. From the econo-
mic point of view, he asks, how can a
man of professional ability do what is
really required in organ-playing for
about £lOO a year? Can he be expected
to train boys twice weekly, take a com-
bined practice with choirs, and be present
at least twice on Sundays?— Allan B.
(Vic.). •
Radio in Schools
It is a pity that better use is not made
of the excellent radio-programmes pro-
vided for schools by the A.B.C. and the
N.S.W. Education Department.
Too many teachers regard these 15-
minute breaks in the lesson as a waste
of time, while others regard them as a
rest-period, turn the radio on, and sit
back and relax. In many other cases
the facilities are not satisfactory for listen-
ing.
Timing is a difficulty in secondary
schools. In the primary it is easy, as
the one teacher takes the same class all
day, but at the secondary stage teachers
change with the subject. For a broadcast
such as “Realms of Gold” —a literary
broadcast of excellent quality—it is
essentially the English-teacher’s job to
handle it at the schoolroom end. It is
not often that the timetable can be
arranged for the English-teacher to have
his class at the time of the broadcast.
Further complications occur when one
teacher takes two or more classes of the
same grade.
This could be overcome by tape-
recorders, but who will pay for them?
The teaching and inspectorial staff try
their hardest to encourage the use of
schools broadcasts, but the administrative
section won’t, or can’t, provide the money
for recorders. Even when P. and C.
associations provide them it is generally
found that there are no power-points in
the rooms, thus making use of the
recorder inconvenient and wasteful of
teaching time.
All this is a great pity. These broad-
casts not only introduce worth-while
things to the older children but they
teach them the art of listening and of
comprehending what they listen to.
More encouragement by the depart-
ment to teachers and by teachers to pupils
could go a long way to combat the
rubbish that comes over in many of the
evening serials that are nothing more
than comics of the air.—Wackford
(N.5.W.).-


Graziers have reported
that one o£ the bene-
ficial results of using
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for the marking
of lambs is the dis-
appearance of arth-
ritis. Even if Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings did
no more than provide
protection against this
crippling complaint
the adoption of this
modem hygienic and
bloodless lamb-mark-
ing method is surely
justified.
The new 3 h.p. ‘Tanners’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Introducing the
“FARMERS' BOY
MAJOR”
UNIVERSAL UTILITY TRACTOR
ECONOMICAL MULTI - PURPOSE TRACTOR,
attachments include 17in. rotary hoe, twin rotary scythe
with 30in. cutting width, cutter-bar, cultivating frame,
furrower, etc. Quick and easy interchange of accessories.
For full particulars contact your nearest State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII. . .
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aust: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Bnzaeotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA 2631. .
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 lorii.
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Mejof
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A.I.S. AT KIAMA
SOME N.S.W. Australian Illa-
warra Shorthorn - breeders
think Kiama Show is more
important than the Royal Easter
Show, from their specialised
viewpoint. The standard of A.I.S.
cattle at Kiama is certainly very
high, and as a curtain-raiser to
the Royal the 108-year-old
South Coast show has a special
interest.
This is true,- of course, of
several of the South Coast shows
in January and February m
contrast, for instance, with the
North Coast National at Lis-
more, which, held later in the
year, is a separate entity. And
at the various shows the em-
phasis falls successively on
different breeds. At Nowra,
Friesians ; at Berry and Wollon-
gong, Ayrshires. And the A.I.S.
breed at Kiama.
The judge, L. R. Graham, of
Dunmore, had a lot of A.I.S.
cattle to sort out. Outstanding
cow of the show was Richardson
Bros.’ Roseview Flora 7th, which
won the cow-in-milk, four-year s-
and-over, and the best-uddered-
cow prizes, and was champion
A.I.S. cow.
The Richardsons are among
the leading breeders in the
country, because their cattle not
only consistently win type-prizes,
but are also well up among the
winners in the production-com-
petitions. An example of this
is their Tabbagong Fussy 42nd,
which won the type-prize for cow
between three and four years in
milk, and came third in both
24-hour production-prizes in its
age-group. This is in contrast to
some breeders who won prizes
only for type, and then only with
their bulls.
R. A. Henry and Sons also did
well in the production-prizes,
winning the three-years-and-
under-four 24-hour milk-produc-
tion prize, and second in the
butter-section, with Numbaa
Leigh Sunkist.
Reserve-champion cow was
J. T. Alexander’s Numbawarra
Bluebell 3rd, which also came
second to the champion in her
class.
R. H. James Estate owned
the champion bull, Kurrawong
Sally’s David, and T. Airey’s
Fairholme Master was reserve-
champion.
The Friesians produced some
interesting competition. For the
first time this year V. J. Lamond
was beaten in a championship.
The judge, R. L. Brunskill, of
Wagga, made J. Calcraft’s
Willow Glen Camellia Joan
champion, with Lamond’s Wattle
Band Sadie reserve-champion.
Calcraft also won five of the
six production-prizes, and was
second in the sixth. It must be
admitted that most of these latter
prizes were won with imported
cattle, but such stock can reason-
ably be expected to produce
cows of high quality in the
future.
Other Friesian-breeders who
did well were S. G. Nelson and
A. G. and K. J. Miller. Lamond’s
bull, Brundee Transvaal, was
champion.
There were only two main
competitors in the Ayrshire sec-
tion, F. A. Mclntosh, of Berry,
and A. E. Garrety and Sons, of
Nowra. Main interest in this
breed was the fact that Mclntosh
won the two special type-and-
production prizes open to all
breeds.
The first was the John Darling
and Son Pty., Ltd., special-prize
for three cows of any age, pro-
geny of the one sire, with 100
points for type and one point
for every 101 b. of milk above the
age-standard of the cow, with
milk brought to the 4 per cent,
fat-corrected milk, Gaines
formula, in order to allow all
breeds to compete on an equal
basis.
Winning three cows were
Woodside Park Judy’s Own,
Grace 2nd, and Lillian.
The same cows took the first
three places in the second special-
prize, by the South
Coast Produce Co. Pty., Ltd. This
took the form of 100 points for
type and one point for every
61b. Qf butter up to 6001 b., and
one point for every 101 b. above
6001 b. If one might criticise any-
thing* about this excellent prize,
surely there should be a higher
premium for cows producing
over 6001 b.?
Champion Ayrshire cow was
Mclntosh’s Woodside Park
Colleen, with the Garretys’
Beltana Eva reserve-champion.
Jerseys were judged by K.
Grey, of Albion Park, and T. L.
Cochrane and Cheggwidden
Estate took most of the prizes. „
Guernseys were a repetition of
previous shows, with the main
competition between E. H.
Hayes, R. R. Griffin, and C. R.
Emery. The breed was judged by
A. S. Thomas, of Albion Park,
a well-known dairyman who has
had to give up dairying because
of poor health. It was good to
see him in the judging-ring.
Apart from its interest as a
parade of A.I.S. cattle and, in
other respects, as a sort of
limbering-up for the Sydney
Royal, the Kiama Show has an
interest as a demonstration of
a nice balance (at least, by
current standards) of competition
in both type and production.
Production-prizes and produc-
tion-and-type prizes quickly pick-
out studmen who are breeding
cattle capable of delivering the
essential product in the bucket,
as well as being good physical
specimens of their breed.
Looked at in this light, three
breeders, F. A. Mclntosh, J.
“Shall We be dressed for dinner?”
Calcraft and Richardson Bros.,
were outstanding. If you analyse
the methods of these breeders
you will probably find that they
are experts in management, and
that the general standard of milk-
production in their herds is high ;
and, of course, they are also
good breeders of type cattle. In
other words, they put the proper
emphasis on the comercial pro-
duction of milk.
John Bridges.
Cleanshaven Sheep
“Fungus”: Research in the
U.S.A. and New Zealand has
indicated that for at least the
Rambouillet (“French Merino”)
and Romney Marsh, it pays to
run clean-faced sheep ; and that
wool-blindness associated with
face-cover is probably only a
minor reason for the difference.
Better fertility of clean-faced
sheep is probably a far more
important factor.
Clean faces are strongly
inherited in the Rambouillet,
and probably also in the
Romney. This gives breeders a
strong practical advantage in the
culling-programme.
With Rambouillets, U.S.A.
workers found that open-faced
ewes had more twins; were
better mothers ; and lambs were
weaned at heavier weights.
Relative productivity of open
and covered faces in Australia
has yet to be determined. Over-
seas findings provide a guide.
The Pepper-tree
“H.C.”: While many new tree-
species are proving valuable in
dry areas, the pepper-tree
(,Schinus molle) remains one of
the best for this kind of country
in Australia.
But over the years the pepper-
tree has had a rough spin. When,
in the days of early settlement,
it gained a reputation for hardi-
ness, it was planted in all manner
of positions, never tended, and
was left to fend for itself against
drought, flood and stock. In con-
sequence, thousands of peppers
were, for many years, the most
miserable objects in the land-
scape.
Then tree-planters discovered
that, given a fair deal, it would
develop into a tree as lovely as
the willow and as lordly as the
oak. Small wonder that today in-
creasing numbers of farmers are
again planting it for shade, in
windbreaks, avenues, or along
fence-lines.
The pepper-tree is a native of
Peru, whence it migrated to
England about the year 1600.
U.N.O.’s Food and Agriculture
Organisation is now recommend-
ing it for planting on the dry
tracts of Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Mexico and Chile.
In Australia the tree reaches
best development inland. Where
the soil has been well ploughed
and brought to a good tilth prior
to planting, young peppers will
race ahead at the rate of 6ft.-
plus a year. Belts or windbreaks
of it will then form dense
barriers of foliage, and will help
forestall erosion over adjacent
areas. Given some care in their
early years, individual sped-
mens will provide shade and
shelter for 30 sheep or more.
Hedges of it are ferny and
effective, and can be trained to
any moderate height.
The pepper-tree is not a
favorite with councils, since its
roots frequently cause damage
to drains. In some instances
roots have been known to travel
hundreds of feet in search of
water. Trenching or mulching
along the line of the windbreak
or around the individual tree
will retain moisture and over-
come the habit.
If the tree is placed near
poultry-yards, lice may infest the
bark, and, like many another
tree, it makes poor growth in
dairy-yards regularly drenched
with the urine of cattle.
The tree is easily grown from
seed. Young seedlings that spring
up beneath the parent-tree, or
suckers cleanly severed from the
main roots, transplant success-
fully. Best time for this job
is early spring.
Aerial-baiting
“Apemantus”: Can’t agree
with “80-Peep” (B. 11/1/’56) on
absence of vermin-farming in
W.A. Reduction of shooting and
trapping during the dingo-breed-
ing season ensures a paying crop
of bonus-bearing pup-scalps.
Aerial-baiting, on the other
hand, is indiscriminate. Although
it is mainly useful over inacces-
sible, unoccupied areas, the
method is not confined to them.
Rugged as some of it is, the
14,000-square - mile triangle,
Albany - Hyden - Esperance, now
being baited, is neither inacces-
sible nor altogether unoccupied.
Aerial-baiting, rightly used, is
a fast, successful and economical
means of dingo-eradication, free
from the evils of the bonus-
system.
Rape for Lambs
“Euro”: An encouraging
feature of the Victorian country-
side in recent summers has been
the increased acreage of rape as
well as lucerne.
Keep lambs off rape until the
leaves turn purplish. Before this,
rape does not fatten young sheep
well, and tends to scald them.
Don’t leave lambs on rape until
the last leaf has been eaten. Use
ewes or wethers to clean-up the
paddock.
Feed only the best pasture and
high-quality hay with rape.
Kale is also a good summer-
fattener, but, being less palatable
than rape, is best fed in breaks,
using an electric-fence.
Lambing-percentages
“J”: C.5.1.R.0., the Uni-
versities and State Departments
of Agriculture have for some
time been investigating lambing-
percentages of Merinos. Drop
from Merino ewes in much of
the Merino-country (measured
in terms of lambs marked) is
often less than 60 per cent, and
sometimes lower than 40 per
cent. Over 80 per cent, is rare,
yet in British breeds 100 per
cent, of lambs is common.
But, under favorable experi-
mental conditions, Merinos pro-
duce and rear more lambs. This


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
WELL
LININGS
o
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE
9UEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
WUNDERLICH SINKS
__ v'v* > 1 1 >j/ j* /,
£6MHhme>; them all
''//till |
.
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
Improvement In sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked.
If required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
The NEW
STAINLESS
ST EE L
m
6252
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
SINKS
has been demonstrated many
times. The figures rise to some-
thing like 95 live-births per 100
mature ewes. These results have
come from regularly mating
ewes and rams at their seasonal
peak of fertility.
Other factors must be taken
into account, of course: nutri-
tion of the ewe during late-
pregnancy and while suckling,
health of rams and their vitamin-
A intake, “flushing” of ewes at
time of mating, and care to
avoid losses between lambing
and marking. All of which con-
tribute to final figures, and
come under the head of general-
management.
Experiments at centres rang-
ing from Queensland to south-
western W.A. have shown that
Merino ewes reach the peak of
their fertility during the late
summer and autumn. Fewer
ewes will mate in late winter,
and the number may be quite
low in spring. But it has also
been found that the introduction
of rams to the flock in spring
does stimulate sexual activity in
the ewes.
Use may be made of this to
get an earlier lamb-drop, by
running teaser-rams with the
ewes for a fortnight before
putting fertile rams in the pad-
docks. This will advance lamb-
ing by about two weeks, pro-
vided it is done at the time of
year when the reproductive
activity of the ewe is beginning
to increase—that is, in late-spring
or early-summer. It is unlikely
to have any effect once the ewes
have begun to come on heat
regularly.
Multiple-births are more fre-
quent among ewes mated at the
peak of their reproductive
activity. For example, at the
C.5.1.R.0. field-station at Toora-
din, in southern Victoria, about
twice as many multiple-births
occurred among autumn-mated
ewes as among those mated in
spring. More matings are re-
quired in spring than in autumn
before conception takes place,
and more autumn-mated ewes
carry their lambs to full-term;
But, of course, grass is also
important. In some districts,
when choosing the time for
mating, a compromise will have
to be made between the period
of peak-fertility and the best
season for lambs and weaners.
In Victoria’s Western District,
for instance, the usual time—
November to February—is such
a compromise. But C.5.1.R.0.
suggests that June —a month
during which mating is rarely
undertaken—might also be suit-
able.
Pittman
Further on the Pittman dis-
cussion, A. E. P. Milner writes: —
I have read in your edition of 4th
inst. on page 32 the article under
the title “The Pittman Technique.”
I feel I must give you some of the
results I have experienced by follow-
ing the recommendations of Mr.
Pittman. I first met Pittman
about six years ago, and I was so
convinced of his recommendations
about the drilling-in of inoculated
clover-seed with a two-to-one mixture
of lime and superphosphate in bands,
after he had shown me the results
obtained by Mr. Hansen at Cottles
Bridge (near Hurstbridge—about 16
miles north of Melbourne) and others,
that I decided to follow his recom-
mendations on my 480-acre dairy-
farm at Jamieson, in north-east
Victoria.
The results obtained on my farm
by following the “Pittman Technique”
have been extraordinarily successful.
I feel that Australia owes a very
great deal to Mr. Pittman for the
pioneering work he has done over
many years in practical methods of
establishing pastures, and it is only
fair that his work should be recog-
nised in some tangible form.
r “ • 7
Fungus-control
“W.C.Q.”: Bluestone or
copper-sulphate should always
be considered when fungoid
diseases in plants need treating.
Two good mixtures for spraying
crops attacked by rot-producing
fungi are Bordeaux - mixture
(copper-sulphate and lime) and
burgundy - mixture (copper-
sulphate and soda). 'These are
tedious to make, requiring
special containers, so they are
best bought ready for mixing.
Some potash soft-soap or white-
oil added to the spray will
improve adhesion.
Bordeaux-paint is often un-
obtainable, however, and must
be made at home. It is handy
to have when pruning fruit-
trees, for it stops the entry of
rot-fungi into the open surfaces.
Dissolve Boz. of copper-
sulphate fines in a quart of water
in a non-metal vessel, or a
kerosene-tin coated inside with
pitch to keep the solution clear
of the metal. It dissolves with
difficulty, so is best put in a
cloth-bag and suspended in the
water for some hours. Have
another mixture of lib. burnt-
lime or l£lb. hydrated-lime in a
quart of water. Pour equal
amounts of the solutions
together in a non-metal con-
tainer and use immediately.
For sterilising the site for
nursery-beds, a solution of
copper-sulphate lib. and water
7gals. answers very well;
enough should be watered on
to wet the soil to at least 6in.
This will clean-up all fungi that
might attack the seedlings, but
the ground should not be sown
until a few weeks after
treatment.
Perhaps a better mixture is
one that may be used in a bed
of seedlings where “damping”
has shown. This consists of
fresh ammonia - carbonate, 11
parts, and fine copper-sulphate,
two parts. Mix well, put in a
glass-stoppered bottle and leave
for 24 hours, when the mixture
is ready for use. Use loz. of
the mixture to 2gals. of water
and pour freely over the bed.
It’s harmless to plant-life.
D.D.T.-resistant Flies
“Sundowner”: Experiments
at Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege (S.A.) make it clear that flies
build-up a resistance to D.D.T.
and other insecticides.
The Roseworthy tests disclosed
that flies developed the immunity
after three years, up to which
time it had been necessary to
spray only two or three times a
year. Spraying was stepped-up
at the end of three years, with
B.H.C. used on occasions. How-
ever, flies were found to be just
as thick a fortnight afterwards.
Experiments overseas, notably
in the U.S.A., have revealed that
resistance to D.D.T. soon means
resistance to other insecticides
of the residual-toxicity type.
A report from the C.5.1.R.0.
has confirmed the Roseworthy
findings. In addition to thin-
spreading of manure (to wipe-
out breeding areas) the college is
now using a commercial pyreth-
rum-insecticide to keep flies
down to a minimum.
However, there is one bright
spot for the man on the land.
The domestic blowfly, which is
probably a greater nuisance in
the house than the ordinary fly,
has not been recorded as show-
ing any resistance to D.D.T. or
any other of the usual insecti-
cides. C.5.1.R.0. entomologists
are experimenting to produce a
more effective .insecticide.
Flattering Statistics
“Gravenstein”: I often
wonder if our scientific types
don’t trick themselves up a
bit occasionally. Agricultural
scientists do an outstanding job
in devising new and more
efficient methods for protecting
our animals and plants from
insect-pests, fungi and bacteria,
but I think they fall into simple
errors when assessing the
economic value of their work.
For example, what is
the use of estimating the
economic loss to orchardists
caused by black-spot disease and
codling-moth at over half-a-
million pounds annually? As an
orchardist, I know you can get
good control of both these pests
by meticulously applying insecti-
cides and fungicides at the right
times.
But if every applegrower in
Australia controls these pests, do
we get an extra half-million
divided among us, or do we, due
to the excess of good-quality
fruit we all market, receive a
good bit less per case, and end-
up no better than we were
before?
Half the time when we beat
Nature we only think we are
winning.
Fertilising Pineapples
“Bill C.”: Pineapples need
fertiliser four times yearly for
best results. The plants are
such heavy drawers on soil-
nitrogen that even on new scrub-
land the plant-crop may use-up
a lot of nitrogen, and it is
usually necessary to fertilise the
ratoon-crop.
The first application of
sulphate-of-ammonia 10, phos-
phoric-acid 6, and potash 10, is
best given a few weeks after the
crop is planted (which, in
Queensland, may. be in either
autumn or early spring), at the
rate of 7001 b. to the acre. Two
to three months later, give a
dressing of sulphate-of-ammonia,
4201 b. to the acre.
After another two or three
months, repeat the s.-of-a.,
phosphoric-acid and potash
mixture, at the same rate. After
another two or three months
repeat the sulphate-of-ammonia.
Argentine-ant
“Geep”: Though the Argen-
tine-ant remains a menace in
W.A., spraying in Perth suburban
areas by the Department of
Agriculture has been very suc-
cessful : 7000 acres were
sprayed in 1954, a further 8000
acres last year.
To city folk, the ant is best
known as a domestic nuisance.
Its greatest danger, however, lies
in the risk of its becoming estab-
lished in orcharding areas.
The ant itself does no direct
damage to the tree, but it is
strongly attracted by the honey-
dew exuded by aphides, scale-
insects, mealy-bugs, and the like.
The attention it gives these in-
sects stimulates the flow of
honey-dew, with the result that
fruit and leaves are soon covered
with the sooty-mould-fungus
associated with this insect-
exudation.
In addition, the presence of
ant-swarms on the trees pre-
vents useful insects, such as lady-
birds and parasitic wasps, from
exerting their normal control of
aphides and other pests.
It all adds up to unhealthy
trees.
Crosscuts
“C.A.A.”: “Ray Deer”
(B. 11/1/ ’56) mentions the new
wheat “yet to be named,”
developed by the Victorian
Department of Agriculture
agronomists from Baldmin and
Quadrat. It will be called
Baldmin-Quadrat Z 33.
* * *
“Big Billy”: Aerial-topdress-
ing with superphosphate of non-
arable hill-country has proved
successful in S.A.’s lower-north.
With the addition of clover-seed,
valuable pasture has been estab-
lished, and in some instances
carrying - capacity has been
doubled. In this case the opera-
tion was carried out at ss. 6d.
an acre, which is reckoned as
fairly cheap in the circumstances.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’* a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/1/’56)
Further heavy rains are likely in the northern areas
of Queensland during February, and these rains should
extend down the western division into the south-west, with
the possibility of further flooding. The Darling Downs and
the balance of the State confined to light to moderate rains.
N.S.W. should receive moderate rains on the coast
during February, with light to moderate rain on the table-
lands and north-west slopes and plains, but p'oor in the rest
of the State. Little relief is indicated for the western division
until June, when heavy general rains are likely.
Apart from light to moderate rains in the central
division and Gippsland, rainfall is likely to be poor in
Victoria during February, and poor rainfall is also likely in
South Australia. The Fortescue and lower south coast of
W.A. should receive good rains during February, but else-
where in the State rainfall poor, with the season com-
mencing in May.
LENNOX WALKER.


advising each other to take salt-
tablets.
They entered the Red Sea
Narrows. On the left you could
see Africa looking all wrong;
the snow-covered peaks of Nubia
must surely belong to some other
continent. And, on the right,
there stretched the burnt-out
wrinkles of the Sinai desert. It
was further off than Africa and
each wrinkle was, in fact, a
mountain. They said you could
pick out the peak of Sinai itself ;
but Ron had never been able to
tell one from another.
The heat reached its climax
during the stately crawl through
the Suez canal. They moved so
slowly that there was no longer
even the wind of their own pro-
gress to fan the ship.
They reached Port Said in the
early morning. Mrs. Alving said
at breakfast: “Benno, you must
come ashore with me. I have
shopping to do. I need you to
help carry parcels.”
Stroganoff’s eyebrows gave the
displeasure sign: “It is bad for
pianists to carry things. They
will send your goods to the ship
for you, Regina.”
“I don’t trust them.” Evidently
she had that carefulness about
money that many rich people
have.
“Then you had much better
leave your shopping till you get
to London. Look what happened
to Melba in Egypt. I hate Port
Said.”
Ron, too, hated Port Said. But
he needed new shoes and he
knew a shop whose shoes could
be trusted not to fall to bits
before you were clear of the
Mediterranean.
The one decent suit he still
owned was too hot, so he climbed
into freshly-laundered shirt and
shorts. For some reason, he felt
anxious to look his best; it
seemed years since he’d had this
feeling before going anywhere.
Why care how he looked in Port
Said?
He stepped along the floating
snake of pontoons to the shore.
At the Egyptian police-barrier
some fool who had defied the
warning against cameras was
having his costly German camera
confiscated. Egyptian officials
were having a great time being
arrogant, these days.
The usual scrofulous mob got
to work on him. In one beggar’s
outstretched hand a live chicken
appeared and began cheeping.
Ron was now too wise to wait
for the next sample of juggling:
to be juggled out of his small-
change.
He made it clear that he had
no wish to buy a tin of aphro-
disiac. Nor did he want a copy
of The Well of Loneliness,
the dullest book ever banned.
Amazing that it still competed
for sales with a new rival
from Australia, Love Me, Sailor.
AFTER he had bought his
shoes, he wandered along
the suntired French colonial
facade to the biggest department-
store. Inside, all was ordered and
respectable. The architecture
was Oriental; some of the goods
were exotic, but, on the whole,
the effect was exactly as if a
small-scale Farmer’s or Myer’s
had set up business in a disused
harem.
He bought some Turkish-
delight for his London landlady’s
daughter, then went up to the
first floor for a cup of coffee.
He didn’t really want the coffee ;
but he did want the pleasure of
being waited on by someone
else. He recognised several of
the ship’s passengers, but Mrs.
Alving was not among them.
With surprise he realised he’d
been looking for her. The coffee-
tables were on a balcony which
looked down through outsize
Moorish arches on to something
which was a cross between a
courtyard and an outsize lift-
well. Since there was a glass
roof, the floor of the courtyard
was used as one of the shop’s
main display-areas. He watched
it closely. In whatever part of
the world she found herself,
Mrs. Alving was the sort of
woman to do her shopping at
the best shop.
He was on his third cup of
Egyptian tar when his patience
was rewarded. There she was,
looking very Norwegian and
cool. She certainly knew how
to dress for the tropics. By con-
trast, she was buying yards and
yards of hot-looking, bright-red
velvet. It made a pretty big
parcel; big enough to give him
an excuse to interfere.
He bowled down the stairs to
her: “May I carry that back
to the ship for you?”
“That is kind of you. I think
they must smuggle this stuff in
from Italy. It’s three times the
price in London.”
“I’ll see your cabin-steward
and have it left in your cabin.”
“It will be easier if I come
back with you.”
Port Said was swarming with
passengers who knew her by
sight. Either she thought the
huge parcel sufficient excuse to
be seen with him, or didn’t
care.
She took his two small parcels,
the shoes and the Turkish-
delight, to leave both his hands
free for her big one.
As they walked slowly through
the white glare she said: “I miss
my husband in these things. I
am not used to being alone yet.
It is only eight weeks since he
died.”
“I’m sorry.”
“He had been ill for many
years. He was very brave . . .
but I am glad that now I shall
never have to go back to the
East.”
“Shall you go back to
Norway?”
“No. In London I have many
friends. Your parcel is to
make new curtains for my
London flat. Red velvet keeps
out the London winter. It is
very cosy, the flat. And I have
a German Steinway piano.”
“I gave my Wigmore recital on
a German Steinway.”
“And how did it go, your
recital? What did the critics
say?”
“Both good, the ‘Times’ and
the ‘Observer.’ ‘Manchester
Guardian,’ not so good.”
“Then why have you not given
more recitals? Vorishov the
violinist told me he had to play
in public for five years before
anyone took any notice of him.”
“It costs over a hundred
pounds to give a small recital.
I had no more money.”
ON their way across the pon-
toon-bridge they passed two
stewards from his cabin. They
were dressed in remarkable
clothes, and if they saw him
pretended not to.
' “Let me give you a drink for
your trouble,” she said when
they arrived at her cabin.
It was a single-berth cabin. Its
designer’s idea of luxury was
to panel the walls and, generally,
to make it look as little as
possible like a cabin at sea. A
ventilation-tube hung like a
steel python from the ceiling.
She went to an expensive-look-
ing thermos jug on her dressing-
table and poured two drinks.
They were very strong and so
cold that they frosted the glasses.
“To your music,” she said. In
the cabin’s dim light she looked
like a young girl.
“I’ll have to face some music
if the chief-steward finds me
here.”
“I do not think you need worry
about that. Do you have to help
serve luncheon?”
“No. There are so few pas-
sengers who haven’t gone
ashore; only a couple of
stewards are on duty.”
“Then you needn’t hurry
away.”
How did you make love to a
woman called Regina?
A FTER they had sailed across
the Mediterranean for two
days the weather turned cold.
Stroganoff, perversely enough,
gave up eating porridge for
breakfast, and switched to cold
cereals. Mrs. Alving no longer
came to breakfast.
Cold weather turned to rough
weather, the other diners at the
table became seasick, and one
morning old Stroganoff was left
there alone.
Ron had to chase crockery
round the table with every lurch
of the ship. Once, a cup and
saucer fell on the floor, despite
the rim round the edge of the
table.
Suddenly Stroganoff growled
at him: “Mrs. Alving tells me
you’re going to marry her.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Nothing like a rich wife to
help a man get ahead at his
music—or to help him give it up
and retire ... if he’s luckier than
poor old Stroganoff.”
and then I left. Most of the
things we talked about I have
forgotten now. I told Paul I’d
be in to see him next day or the
day after, but as it turned out I
was unable to keep my promise,
because the Army decided that
the correspondents could go
forward at last, and two days
later I was in the shadow of
Mount Olympus.
'T'HE German attack began in
the first week of April, and
even the events of the first days
resolved any doubts I might
have held about Paul’s military
acumen: it was soon plain that
our forces were fighting merely
a delaying action, making noth-
ing but a gesture which must
end in total defeat. Oh, yes, I
did think of Paul once or twice.
As we fell back, I remembered
his words: It’s always the little
guy has it hard! I knew it
would not be long, at this rate,
before the little guys of Greece
were having it hard.
We had fallen back to some-
where south of Elassona when I
had to go back to Athens. My
reports of the fighting had been
going to Athens by road, to be
censored and put on the cable
there. Now some blockage had
developed at the cable-office;
my messages were not getting
away. A personal call was
needed to straighten-out the
trouble.
I reached Athens after mid-
night. I slept in a hotel bed
that night and went round to
the cable-office next morning.
The cable-supervisor was help-
ful, and the snag that had
caused the bother was removed
in ten-minutes. I went out into
the street, and I decided that I’d
call on Paul before going back
to the line.
It was only about ten-o’clock,
but the Cafe Wavell was open
for business. I went in through
the bead-curtain, and stood
blinking in the softened light.
Paul came toward me from the
back of the cafe: there was
pleasure on his normally
immobile face.
“This is good,” he said.
He brought coffee and ouzo
—ouzo at ten in the morning!
This time he sat down, on a
chair across the table from me,
and when I offered him money
for the coffee and drinks he
waved it away with a gesture
almost fierce.
“You been at the fighting?”
he asked. \
I told him what I had to tell.
It must have been cheerless
news for him, but his calm face
registered nothing. At the end,
he nodded slowly, his lips
pursing.
“Well,” he said, “I guess it
had t’ be!”
“What about you?” I asked.
“Another week or so, and
they’ll be in Athens. Are you
going to hang on here?”
“What else!” He shrugged.
“Where do I go, if I don’ stay
in Athens?”
I could not answer that. It
was something I had never
thought-out. The troops would
have their chance of getting out
and staying free: many of them
would go in the bag, but at least
they would have their chance.
There would be nothing for the
Greeks, nothing anyway for
“the little guys” like Paul, but
to stay behind and endure
whatever might come.
“Can’t you do anything?” I
asked. Even at the time I knew
it was an inane question, but I
felt I must say something.
“No,” he said. “I got a
family, remember!”
Paul had mentioned his family
before, in an offhand way, but
I had never somehow thought
of him as a family man. To me,
he seemed to have no being
beyond this drab cafe, with its
tables and chairs, its high marble-
topped counter, its nickel coffee-
urn, and its shelved bottles.
“I don’ mind so much,” he
said. “I been through it before,
y’ know. Look!” He pushed
out his right leg and eased the
trousers up, baring the calf of
the leg above the black cotton
sock. The column of flesh and
bone was hardly thicker than
my wrist: the muscle part had
been violently carved away, and
all that remained was an ugly
whitish scar, deeply indented.
I understood now the cause
of the almost imperceptible limp
when he walked.
“The other war,” Paul said.
“I got a few more, but she’s the
best.”
I knew I must not delay any
longer. The car was waiting to
take me north. It was waiting
at the hotel I had slept in the
night before. I told Paul I must go.
“0.K.,” he said. “I hope I
see y’ again some time! ”
I hoped I should see him, too,
but I doubted my chances of
doing so. Anything might
happen in the days ahead. The
best that any man could hope
for would be to escape from
Greece before the German grip
had tightened over the land and
its people.
BUT I did see Paul once more.
The fighting was all but
over then. The British and the
Anzacs were still on their feet,
working their way back to the
evacuation-beaches of the Pelop-
ponese, but the defeat inflicted
by superior numbers and more
powerful arms was in its last
bitter phase.
The end was a question of
two or three days at most. I
had been ordered back to
Athens and told to make my
way out from there if I could ;
if I should fail, then to strike
southward, for the evacuation-
beaches and take my chance of
getting there in time to find
room in a Royal Navy ship.
Athens was a sorrowful city.
There was a kind of waiting
stillness over it, because the
people knew that hope was
ended. They had lived for
weeks in a frenzy of alternating
hope and despair, but they knew
there could be no escape now.
The sunshine was no less
brilliant, but it no longer
warmed you, and the streets
were pretty well deserted most
of the time.
The patriotic flags had dis-
appeared, and even the fervent
posters, depicting Hitler with
blood-reddened hands, had been
torn down —whether by German
sympathisers or by the
frightened men and women of
Athens I never knew. If they
were frightened you could not
blame them. There would be
hard times ahead of them, any-
way ; they would have been
fools to exasperate the Germans
to no purpose.
A small ship was leaving the
Piraeus, which is the port of
Athens, that night. She was an
/Egean islands freighter in
peace-time, and her name was
Elsie. The Elsie was already
loaded with troops and a few
British civilians far beyond the
limits of safety, but I was told
I could go along in her, if I
was on board by ten-o’clock. At
least, I could go if the Elsie was
still afloat and the harbor had
not been demolished in the
meantime. The German
bomber-fleets, unopposed now,
were making a resolute effort to
blow the harbor and every vessel
moored in it to glory.
There were still some hours
to nightfall and on impulse I
decided to pay a farewell call
on Paul. I went along Stadium-
street in the sunshine. As I
neared the side-street in which
the Cafe Wavell stood a
bomber-formation came whoop-
ing across the city toward the
Piraeus. A minute or two later
I heard the rumble of their
bombs, and I hoped—selfishly,
of course —that the Elsie had
not been hit.
I half-expected the Cafd
Wavell to be closed; many of
the Athens shops had put up
their shutters, almost as if they
were making an act of mourn-
ing ; but the door was open, and
when I went through the bead-
curtain somebody stirred behind
the counter. Paul came forward,
walking with his almost imper-
ceptible limp. His face looked
a little greyer, the lines about
his mouth were tighter, the eyes
were tired.
“Coffee?” he asked.
I nodded, and he went back
to the counter and presently
returned with a cup of coffee.
He set the cup on the marble-
topped table.
Then he said, “She’s a sad
day for Greece!”
I knew he did not mean just
that day, but all the days that
were to come.
“Yes,” I said. There seemed
nothing else to say. The time
when words could hold any
comfort for him had passed.
He dusted the table-top with
his napkin, in the age-old way
of waiters.
“I’m bothered about my
sons,” he said.
I DON’T know why we had
never spoken of his sons
before. I should have known
they would be fighting. Every
man in Greece who could carry
a rifle had been fighting for
months. It had just never
occurred to me to draw Paul
on the subject of his own sons.
“T’ree of them,” he said.
“They all with the Army. I
haven’t heard nothing in weeks.”
I understood now why his
face was grey and taut.
The consolations you can
offer a man at such a time are
never more than commonplace.
They are better left unspoken.
I could think of nothing but a
cigarette. I gave him one and
took one myself, and we lit
them and smoked, with no
words to speak.
Paul’s cigarette was half-
smoked when he looked down
at it, tapped the ash from the
end and' said, “She ain’t over
yet, y’ know! ”
“The fighting?”
He nodded. “We go on
fighting! Here, Crete, any place
else we can! The Greeks is
plenty tough people.”
I knew this was not a despair-
ing boast. I knew that Paul
meant it, and that it was true.
I stood up.
“You go?” he asked.
“I hope so. There’s a ship
leaving the Piraeus tonight, u
I miss out, then I’ll go south and
try my luck there.”
We shook hands, and he
smiled for the first time since 1
had come in to the cafe. He
clapped me on the shoulder and
wished me luck. I went ou
through the bead-curtain, and
I was walking away up the quie
side-street when I heard him
calling after me. He wave
from the doorway.
“When the British return you
come an’ take coffee with me,
eh? Remember Paul!”
I waved and turned an
hurried on, thinking that the
courage of the unheroic is tr
most sublime courage of all.


LIKE THE ARK . . .THE STORY
OF ARARAT
by Jjorna h. Banfield. At the beginning
of this centenary year of the city of
Ararat, its colourful past is brought to
life in this absorbing book. Here is the
story of the adventurous squatters who
settled in the great plain around the
Grampians and Pyrenees, of the dis-
covery of gold on which the foundations
of Ararat were laid, and of the dawn-
ings of this modern age. 21/- (post 7d.)
THE GOVERNOR’S LADY
by Marnie Bassett —extract? from the
journals of Mrs. Philip Gidiey King,
wife of the first Governor of Norfolk
Island. In this second edition some
new facts are incorporated and we are
given a lively picture of contemporary
life and politics in the Colony.
22/6 (post 9d.)
>
Obtainable irom all booksellers and . . .
NGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
h.m.s. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
Now available again from all booksellers
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
south rim. Zupus stands on the east
wall of a very low-rimmed ancient
ring, and its dark hue makes it dis-
tinct under high light. Pickering
noted changes within Zupus which
he ascribes to the growth of vegeta-
tion. Webb describes it as a valley,
and it was shown as a dark spot by
Riccioli in his 1651 map.
Though it is fascinating to learn how
diligently men have mapped the moon,
showering so many names upon its
hollows and protuberances that there
had to be published in 1938 a volume
entitled “Who’s Who in the Moon,”
the ordinary reader is likely to find this
huge geographical and historical tabu-
lation a very formidable piece of read-
ing, but will nevertheless find con-
siderable interest in the telescopic
photographs and in the foreword
summing-up the latest information.
The authors believe that the craters
are largely volcanic in origin, rather
than caused by meteoric bombardment;
that the “seas” are dry; that the myster-
ious “rays” which radiate from vol-
canic centres for miles across mountain
and plain are probably streams of fine
glass expelled by the volcanoes; and
that, though they are unwilling to
commit themselves on this most stimu-
lating subject, it is indeed possible, in
spite of the thinness of atmosphere and
apparent absence of water, that the
changing dark patches which Pickering
and others have observed, and which
do not move as shadows would, may
be some form of vegetal life:—
The outer layers of the crust may
be of a spongy nature. We may not
agree with the vegetation or insects
suggested by Professor W.TI. Picker-
ing but .... it is not impossible
that there may exist, or have once
existed, some form of life peculiar
to the moon and totally unlike any-
thing ever known on the earth.
There may be, although it is very
unlikely, fossils in the lunar crust.
In an appendix the authors pour
almost as much scorn as on the unfor-
tunate Fauth upon people who believe
that the moon affects the weather, the
growth of plants and the eyesight of
unwary sleepers; but those who ciihg,
nevertheless, to the belief that our
aerial companion is made of green
cheese may take comfort from the fact
that the invaluable Professor Pickering
has detected greenish hues in it, while
the authors themselves declare the sur-
face to be of a “spongy” texture. It
seems quite possible, therefore, that the
dark moving patches are hordes of
lunar mice.
Reviewed Briefly
The China Shepherdess: Felicien
Marceau (Arthur Barker). As one
reads the first few chapters of this
engaging and beautifully translated
novel, one does not feel that it is to be
taken too seriously. Here is the twelve-
year-old Marie-Jeanne, middle-class
daughter of a widower and rebel
against his horrid old housekeeper
Madame Lot, sitting in the parlor of
an ageing prostitute and her ex-jockey
lover, Ted, eating brioche and jam and
being helped by Ted with her home-
work —she is supposed to be perform-
ing this task under the supervision of
the nuns at her school. But then, still
with great wit and charm, the author
becomes more serious—Marie-Jeanne
develops into a sort of Every-French-
woman of this day and age. She
grows up to be a true femme fatale
to the men in her life —a sort of post-
Sartre femme fatale —and finally
chooses the only one she ever looked
like truly choosing. The whole result
is gay, amusing, and clever: but frag-
mentary. At the end one regrets the
innocent fantasy of the beginning.
Mention must be made of Marie-
Jeanne’s cousin Nicholas: one of the
best studies of priggishly-pompous
adolescent intellectualism one has read.
* * ♦ *
Mirage in the South: Poems by
Hubert Nicholson (Heinemann). As
readers of that wonderful small novel
“Little Heyday” might expect, Nichol-
son is at his best as a poet of Bristol
and its near-by waterways. Water-
imagery and the “water-fretted” things
left behind by water pervade his
thought. Uneven on some other themes,
he is successful again when he takes
a look at “Captain Scott’s ‘Discovery’ ”
rotting with other poor flotsam and
jetsam in the Thames: —
The Discovery: iced now into the
stone of London
The Discovery: a dying memory in the
eye of some aged seal
The Discovery: old black cup, whence
turned to vapor
Those ether-fine spirits, in the polar
air . . .
* * * *
The Tree of Idleness: Lawrence
Durrell (Faber). One of the advan-
tages to a poet of book-publication
should surely be that, seen in quantity,
his work will gain richness and stature.
But this collection is disappointing.
Altogether the poems are too cerebral.
The carefulness of their form, and the
fact that the urgent emotion —the
original stuff of experience—is halted
while Durrell carefully relates it to
classical images, give rise to a feeling
of stiltedness. As example, one of the
warmest and most beautiful poems,
“A Portrait of Theodora”:—
The name of love: to me is always
Brown face, white teeth, cheap summer
frock
In green and white stripes and then
Forever a strawberry eye. I recalled
no more
For years. The eye was lying in
wait ....
How could have I ignored such
wounds?
The bloody sweepings of a loving smile
Strewed like Osiris among the dunes?
Osiris of all the gods! To illustrate
the point, however, is to spoil the form
of the poem; it should be read in whole
as should be the book, for with its
faults it is still the work of one of
England’s few true poets.
* * * *
The Candidate: Martin Mayer
(Seeker and Warburg). In these demo-
cratic days one time-honored theme is
denied the contemporary and secular
novelist: he cannot describe the tragedy
of greatness overthrown, within a firm
convention of inherited nobility. If
he wants a great character to topple he
must first demonstrate wherein the
greatness lies and, if he fails to con-
vince here, the denouement is liable
to be less immediately interesting than
local gossip of how the snooty Joneses
got their come-uppance when they
failed to keep up payments on their
car. Billy Clelland, Governor of his
State, is rumored candidate for the
American Presidency. He should
have a good chance: he is an honorable,
cultured and experienced man and the
skeleton in his cupboard (a mistress
and child) would be a trifle measured
against the skeletons of some great
historic leaders. But this, and the
very trivial personal jealousy of a
newspaper baron, combined with a
brace of rather lukewarm sectarian and
social issues, bring: about
at'the end seems 8 to y be about the last
• t 'niirnQljct
experienced journalist The Candidate
is a racy, readable novel as far as sur-
fnoo pvpntc anH rhararterisatinn are
face events and characterisation
concerned: as a battle of issues and
irieak it falls dead flat
ideals it falls dead Hat.
Australia 55: Alan*Ross (Michael
Joseph). Alan Ross came to Australia
to cover the 1954-55 England-Australia
cricket Tests for the London
“Observer.” Of his dispatches to the
paper “Plum” Warner said they “just
could not be better.” Author of some
half-dozen books, of poetry or of travel,
Ross is intent, it’s clear, that this one
will be more than just another cricket
book. So, apart from the cricket, it’s
about shipboard-life, his travels around
Australia, Namatjira, the Barrier Reef,
Tasmania, the beginnings of surfing
in Sydney, the virtues of Australian
w i ne> '
* * * *
Bottoms Up: Cornelia Otis Skinner
(Constable). In which the sprightly
actress-author of “Our Hearts Were
Young and Gay” discourses amusingly
of early stage experiences; the difficul-
ties of becoming a reader in the Paris
Bibliotheque Nationale; other events in
the life of an American in Paris; and
various other agreeable trifles. The out-
standing thing in the book—it comes
last and explains the title—is the text
of an address which Miss Skinner was
invited to give to the American Gyne-
cological Society. It must have been a
memorable banquet, and the same
things cannot possibly have been said
more funnily by anyone anywhere.
„ * * *
Robert Banning
, A ‘V * . v , r 0
(Arthur Barker) One day a c.ty-shcker
f, u . rns f the prnwtore faraung
‘ lfc . of fc, f< ?5 ebe i ra
b ? ok wlfh
nl ”S s /(? ba “ y JSfuw,
cows,coldc^matesand ear*yne«hbors
o£ G e . r ” an i““ n * m a
, . . ... : ntcrest
Sal£»i“ c"
l^^rvrife^nia";
Southern belle, and their two sons had
tenderly reared by fussy black
nf suitable
mammies. Virginia s ideas ot suitauie
clothing and decorous behavior m the
rigorous cold and blistering heat of
Wisconsin are soon tempered by ex-
acceptance from Ws
f § wh thei / scep ticism is
" e ‘ gbb^V h * S ucc eS s
tempered by his success.
* * * *
The Corioli Affair: Mary Deasy
(Heinemann). An agreeable romantic
novel concerning a young Irish girl,
Lacey Dereen, who emigrated to
America in the 1890’s and, after living
briefly with relatives, took a position
as schoolteacher in a small riverside
town. One of her pupils was the
daughter of the local packet-boat cap-
tain, Jed Dayton, while Mrs. Dayton,
a spoilt immature woman who had
lost her husband’s love, was at first
her friend. But Jed and Lacey fall
in love and, after a lengthy fight with
their consciences, come together. An
unexpected and mysterious tragedy
adds to the scandal of their affair, and
events move swiftly to a spectacular
trial and final tragedy. A certain
sincerity of style and narrative lifts this
book to slightly above the ordinary.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 368
Across
I—Natty accompanies a fog
character who has three wives.
(9)
s—Nancy5—Nancy cleans only its middle
vehicle. (5)
7 —Give a fief to half of Grenfell
and half the cricket-field. (7)
9—Communist newt in the cata-
logue. (7)
11— Covering the art of finding metal
buyers. (10)
12— It covers one with mixed inks.
(4)
14 — Cricket team in French and a
way to leave a retired pronoun.
(4)
15 — Father bird halved you with the
cube of 10 provender. (7)
19 — 500 go wrong with its backward
saint and the Irish republican
communist aroused. (7)
20— Sahib for a Malay article in a
barrel. (4)
22 —A matter of course in Western
Australia is a stinger. (4)
24 —Übdub is improper after one
brand of football tune for tub-
occupants. (3-1, 3,3)
27 —Reginald at mirrored event for
oarsmen and such. (7)
28 — Canberra offices are nourished a
long time before 50. (7)
29 This makes father figure the
ecclesiastical plate. (5)
30 — The sound suggests 19-across
between one morning and
another European city. (9)
Down
1 — Correct places for plays about
the battling fronts. (8, 2, 3)
2 The earliest parts of our careers
in castles in the air. (9)
3 Preposition split by more sweet-
heart. (6)
4 Claw thanks Chaney. (5)
5 Hit the end of a sleeve. (4)
6 Gaol crescent to join the sound
of pick on stone. (5)
B—The8 —The Spanish box finishes off the
anhydrous silicate of alumina.
(7) . .
10 —Bell dog deserted by Rin is to
capture you before 50 and you
before 1,000. (13)
13 —Become a fugitive victim of the
domestic spray. (3)
16 — Cot conflict starts to reduce size
considerably. (7)
17 — Edoverma drivelled. (9)
18 — Affrights only its middle set of
sail. (3)
21 —Loose aggregation sets the
German league against the
French. (6)
23 —Spectacles assist this spectacle.
(5)
25 — You managed a shire in N.S.W.
(5)
26 — Daze food for monkeys turned
up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 367


CENTURY'S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
1
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You can see the acid level at a glance.
2
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
3
YEARS
I
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
Va
f Gtouss Uv^uXatedl
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS, TRUCKS, TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT. MOTOR CYCLES, RADIO
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd 1 ., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaßerg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, 1 5 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Ptf-
Ltd., Darwin.
