

n
m
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in tbeir
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for
delivery in Great Britain before Christinas must be
placed before 16th November.
Full Details from
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E. GPO
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
BUSHFIRE DANGER — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4004
Wednesday, November 7, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
MECCA OF BRONTE
ENTHUSIASTS:
HAWORTH PARSONAGE
HAWORTH PARSONAGE, the home of the
Bronte family, is perhaps the most strangely
compelling of all the “Literary shrines” in
Britain. Each year thousands of people journey
from many parts of the world to see the sights
and scenes associated with the gifted sisters.
The plain-looking house which stands near
the church at the top of the steep and narrow
High Street is still, in all essentials, unchanged
since the Brontes knew it. It was there that the
famous Bronte novels were written, and the
house is now maintained as a museum by the
Bronte Society. Among the exhibits are Emily’s
rosewood desk; the lamp by whose meagre rays
“Jane Eyre” was written; the Bronnell Collection
of manuscripts from America; Charlotte’s work-
basket, piano and part of her wedding dress, in
the room where she died on March 31, 1855.
There the visitor can visualise something of their
secluded lives, and marvel at their spirit and
courage in their efforts to help their unfortunate
brother, Branwell, and to tend their austere and
self-centred father.
A new wing was added to the stone-built
parsonage in 1881, but the original building con-
sists of nine rooms, and of these perhaps the
kitchen had some of the happiest memories for
Charlotte, who spent much of her time there
helping the devoted servant, Tabby, and learning
from her the important tasks of the household.
The kitchen now serves as an office, but. it still
contains, amongst other things, the kitchen-table,
and cupboard, the toasting-iron and bread-tin,
together with an interesting collection of the
Brontes’ household crockery.
Among the personal relics in Charlotte’s room
are her shoes and slippers, some articles of
jewellery and fine needlework, and the walls are
adorned with numerous examples of her work
as an artist in line and color. It was nearby,
where the wind-tossed clouds trace patterns
across the heath, that the sisters enjoyed the
freedom of the hills, a sense of freedom they
rarely experienced anywhere else.
No. 323: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


"Story Writing
O lt ll y ot HOME
at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc,, that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—•
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 110
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I
shall receive for this article alone will
almost pay for my Course.”
“1 had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
1
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
——GUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
b,B. —l5O
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text noo •
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only n
cetsful.
The Red Page
AIRMEN OVERSEAS
There may have been better books
written about Australians in the R.A.F.
than D. E. Charlwood’s No Moon
Tonight (Angus and Robertson), but
if so this reviewer has not seen them;
and it is hard to imagine that anything
very much better could be done.
Mr. Charlwood might have been
wise to have compacted and simplified
his story into a novel or factual book
that could strike home with a single
powerful impact. Though he purports
to deal with “the Twenty”—2o men
who had left Australia together and
trained together in Canada for World
War II; of whom 18 went to Bomber
Command; and of which 18 one was
taken prisoner, 12 were killed and five
came through—the men were too
widely scattered for him to follow
their adventures closely.
He moves about from squadron to
•squadron, and from one type of plane
to another, making the story complex
if not confusing. And he is somewhat
repetitive, since one raid was neces-
sarily much like another, one night
on leave much like another. All this
could have been avoided, with a
consequent heightening of force and
tension, by selection and compression
of his material.
Still, that is the way it was: and
perhaps, instead of criticising him, one
should be complimenting him on
making so clear and direct a narrative
as he has out of the confusion of war.
Certainly he has let his material sink
deep into his mind, as a good writer
should, so that it emerges again more-
or-less in one piece and one mood, not
as hasty journalism but as literature.
His own story, told quietly, plainly
and with deep feeling, holds the book
together very well on the whole;
indeed, dramatically: for it is the story,
relieved by a pleasant love-affair, of
how he and his crew-mates—Mr.
Charlwood was navigator— went night
by night and week by week through
their “tour” of 30 flights over Germany
(with an occasional comparative picnic
to Italy) until they could be released
for easier duties: seeing the other
members of their squadron shot down
all round them, with the knowledge
that, until they did it, not one crew
in that particular group had ever
completed the 30.
The action everywhere is vivid and
dramatic: whether; it is the author’s
own feelings when, in the early stages,
he realised his “incompetence” as a
navigator and lost his way over
Germany and Italy or ran the plane
into flak that should have been
avoided; whether it is the nightmarish
moments, however firmly the mask of
indifference was kept up, when friends
failed to return; or whether it is in the
tremendous scenes of warfare in the
night-sky.
There is one supreme sequence, too
long to quote, when, in a raid to
Wilhelmshaven, first they were attacked
by a night-fighter, which they shot
down, then they watched a Lancaster,
“silvered by light like a moth plunging
at a candle-flame,” shot down in an
explosion that also destroyed one man
who was swinging in space on his
parachute, then made their attack
amidst the searchlights, then saw the
burning city momentarily lit by one
colossal flash of light as a gasworks
or a mine-dump blew up . . . and so
back across the sea and to bed. They
had been forced to drop their main
bomb into the sea when attacked by
the night-fighter, and had gone on
merely to drop incendiaries.
Here is his first glimpse of the flak
qnd the “forest of searchlights” that
afterwards were to be so familiar and
which, so he says, always looked so
formidable that it seemed no plane
could fly into them and live:—
“Flak and searchlights ahead—
bags of them!” Light flak was
rising as though from the nozzles
of 10,000 hoses, forming transient,
erratic patterns in red and green
and yellow. Above it the heavy flak
blotched the sky with red, and left
' greyish puffs of smoke drifting on
the wind. Shining through this
inferno were searchlights, threshing
, this way and that, sometimes finding
an aircraft, sometimes losing one.
The whole picture was silent, like a
piece of fantastic photography on a
silent screen.... Finally Geoff spoke.
He reminded me of a diver poised on
a high board, summoning up courage
for the plunge. “O.K, Here we go! ”
But one has read good descriptions
of flak and of R.A.F. life before. What
gives this book its special quality is
the quiet, meditative, profoundly com-
passionate tone in which it is written.
It is relieved with humor enough—
one particularly likes Johnnie Gordon,
another Australian, who read the
“'Medea” and “Romeo - and Juliit 1 ?’
because “I enjoy the murders in them”
—but the keynote is the incessant
pondering, without any attempt at,
propaganda one way or the other, on
whether the mass-bombing of cities
was really justifiable and whether/
there was any sense in the nightly
sacrifice of the young air-crews.
It is a Conradian sort of meditation,
giving something of the Conradian
richness to the prose; and if Mr. Chari-
wood is not prepared to go as far as
Conrad in making a metaphysic of the
heroic spirit in man, the extraordinary
thing is that, after all these besetting
doubts and fears, most of his friends,
when they did complete their tours,
tried to get back into “ops” as quickly
as they could, and, when they found
themselves posted back to Australia,
were aghast:—
It was not for some time that I
saw clearly the factors that went to
make up our strange rebellion. Per-
haps the greatest was our attachment
to England—her countryside, her
capital, her pubs, her way of life
and, more than all of these, her Air
Force. And that life became our
life. We who had once laughed at
the handlebar moustache and the
exaggerated speech had found the
life of which these things were
symbols. This had happened without
weakening our attachment to our
own country. It Was something
added to us, and, as we were living
in the midst of it, we were loath
to leave it.
Mr. Chari wood’s book is all the
better that the outstanding figures of
the R.A.F. rarely come into it. It is
not a book of stars; it is not spectacu-
lar. It is the typical story of the young
Australians who went over to join the
R.A.F.—and they have found an
excellent spokesman.
Recorded Poetry
The first “Brolga” record of the
Recording Society of Australia, the
first commercial recording of Aus-
tralian poetry, is a 12in. long-playing
(33-1/3rd) record with Christopher
Brennan’s “The Wanderer” on one side
and Kenneth Slessor’s “Five Visions of
Captain Cook” and “Captain Dobbin”
on the other.
Both readings are remarkably clear,
and the overall surface is pretty clear
of scratch.
The public which completely
approves a poetry-reader is probably
limited to one, provided he can hear
his own recording; and it is proper
to say first that Frank Semple gives
a most thoughtful, well-planned and
passionate reading of “The Wanderer”;
at the section beginning “How old is
my heart,” for instance, speaking with
finely-controlled anguish; and at the
same time keeping this long and diffi-
cult poem all-of-a-piece, in the quiet,
explanatory style of the contemporary
verse-speaker.
It is a matter of particular interpre-
tation and of general style. Brennan’s
long, fluttering lines have always
seemed to the reviewer to require a
grandiose treatment. At the section in
the middle, beginning “Ye have built
you unmysterious homes and ways in
the wood,” for instance, one would
have expected the urgent and threaten-
ing voice of the prophet; at the section
“O desolate eves,” leading up to “some
last fight* foredoomed disastrous, upon
the final ridges of the world,” one
would have expected a crescendo to
a peak of despairing grandeur from
which the last section, “The land I
came thro’ last was dumb with night,”
ebbs away like an orchestra putting a
peaceful conclusion to a slow move-
ment. Such an interpretation would be
the opposite of Mr. Semple’s.
In the matter of style, Mr. Semple’s
is that which will break a line in half
with a pause, to enforce the sense, run
a line over into the next without pause,
and run a parenthetic phrase off
quickly in a lower tone; whereas the
reviewer holds that words are written
in lines to be spoken in lines, and that
if lines do not give up their meaning
when spoken in even time, the running
them off out of time, and the running
them over, will at best reduce them to
prose and fit worst to gabble.
One would have liked to hear the
heavier voice of Frederick Powell, who
did the ’two Slessor poems, on the
Brennan work, and Mr. Semple on the
y Slessor poems, although Mr. Powell
did very well with the Scots accents
of old Captain Home and his wife at
the end of the Cook pieces, and
throughout gave a transparently clear
reading.
With Slessor, especially in “Captain
Dobbin,” the need is for an insinuating
softness of touch; and in the little pieces
about Cook’s ticking chronometers and
the midshipmen, lyrics dropped into
this otherwise pentameter suite, there
were delicacies of rhythm which Mr.
Powell did not suggest.
Still, criticism having said its piece,
here is a really noble beginning to, let
us hope, a big library of recorded
Australian verse.
Cheese
It would be more correct to call
Cheeses of the World, by Andre L.
Simon (Faber), an anthology of cheeses
than a dissertation, since M. Simon,
who is president of the Wine and Food
Society, seems to have written only the
English section, and to have relied upon
the Government departments of the
35 other countries whose cheeses are
mentioned for his itemised informa-
tion.
It would be wrong to say of the book,
as M. Simon says of processed cheese,
that it is “a moronlike rindless child
by Sterilisation out of Tinfoil”; it is,
as he goes on to say of processed
cheese, an “economical, dependable”
book “and it has many other good
points; all it lacks is personality and
cheese-appeal.” But it tells you quickly
what cheeses the world has to offer,
and it gives considerable information
about how they are made.
Trade secrets hardly seem to exist.
Nobody can make Cheshire cheese
away from Cheshire because of the
pasturage, and if anyone can make
cheddar—well it’s the kind of thing
they would do, and do do —almost all
Australian cheese is cheddar; New
Zealand exports more than 95,000 tons
of cheddar a year, consuming only
5000 tons herself, and if some experts
consider New Zealand Stilton superior
to English Stilton, well, there’s not
much of it, anyway.
Nor does it worry the two great
French soft-paste cheeses that they are
imitated in and out of France. Brie
was treasured by Louis XII; the only-
unanimous resolution at the Congress
of Vienna, after Waterloo, was that
Brie was “the King of Cheeses”;
Camembert was famous as far back
as 1708, though its world-renown dates
from 1890, when A. M. Ridel patented
the round wooden box that enabled
Camembert to be shipped all over the
world instead of only short distances
wrapped in straw.
So ignorant can one be that one
always thought Gruyere was a goats’-
milk cheese, but it is not; it is a Swiss
alpine and valley cheese; Emman-
teler, “called ‘Gruyere’ by all except
the Swiss themselves,” is a valley
cheese. The best-known non-cow
cheese seems to be the French Roque-
fort, from the Cevennes; “made of the
unskimmed milk of many thousand
sheep reared in one of the poorest
agricultural parts of France, and only
during the lambing season”; it vies
with Brie, demanding to be called “the
Cheese of Kings and Popes,” and
claims to earn more dollars than any
other cheese.
Gorgonzola is named after a village
near Milan, and is made around Pavia,
Milan and Cremona; they use alternate
layers of cold evening curds and warm
morning curds. Stilton and Roquefort
are both treated after they have been
curded with a mould or “penicillium.”
Stilton is matured on shelves, but
Roquefort is matured slowly in the
cool caves of Roquefort, where an
underground lake gives a humidity
unobtainable elsewhere. Gorgonzola
doesn’t seem to be treated with any
mould, but it is matured in cool, damp
caves in a strong draught, and there
it is; in time visited by a red mould
which, the cheeses being turned con-
stantly, is made to go right through
them. Maczola, made by the Macleay
River Co-op. at Frederickton, is “one
of few typically Australian cheeses,”
with less acid and more fat than
Gorgonzola, and weighing 6lb. to
Gorgonzola’s 151 b.
Parmesan (Parmigiano - Reggiano),
the other great Italian cheese, is a
cooked cheese; they cook the curds;
and it takes between two and three
years to mature. America has a Coon
cheese (a patented treatment of
cheddar), and a Pineapple cheese,
shaped and corrugated like a pine-
apple, and sometimes shellacked;
Turkey is very strong on ewes’-milk
cheeses; India, Irak—even Egypt makes
cheese; soft, white, “with no openings”;
a “pickled cheese.”
In a seven-line summary the
US.S.R. mentions Russian cheeses
entitled Sovetsky, Jaroslavsky, Dorogo-
buzhsky and Moskovsky; Denmark has
its buttery Danablu (Danish Blue);
Bulgaria a White Cheese in Brine, “six-
sided and rectangular in shape, with a
square base”; Holland has besides its
Edam and Gouda cheeses a Leyden
cheese spiced with cumin seeds and a
Friesian cheese spiced with cumin
seeds and cloves.
Of all the hard cheeses, England
seems to have the hardest. Essex
Cheese is supposed to say:—
Those that made me were uncivil,
They made me harder than the devil;
Knives can’t cut me, fire won’t light
me,
Dogs bark at me but can’t bite me.
As for Suffolk cheese, there is the
saying: “Hunger will break through
stone walls and anything except a
Suffolk cheese.”
But if you can’t have Brie or Camem-
bert, it’s not much use choosing
between other cheeses; he who makes-
do with ordinary claret may as well be
satisfied with any cheese that comes
along.
The book is rounded-off with a
selection of cheese - recipes from
several countries’ cook-books. So far
one has got only as far as Oeufs au
Fromage (French). You run thin slices
of bread round in oiled butter, cover
them with thin slices of cheese, grill
the cheese into the bread, break an
egg on the top of each slice of bread,
grate cheese on it and grill the egg.
Three Sunday mornings one has
essayed it, and has progressed to not
burning the bread, but the confounded
egg still won’t stay on the bread . . ■
One’s wife says it requires a delicacy of
touch that comes only with time.
Swilliam.


Smaller payments—
more years to pay
0
8
Z
New Extended Credit Plan
OFFERS EASIEST TERMS IN AUSTRALIA
FROM ONLY
PER WEEK!
PAYS OFF YOUR
REFRIGERATOR
Important guarantee—the refrigerator you purchase from A.H's is brand new; has never been a showroom model, demonstrated or repossessed.
Telephone Anthony Horderns, 80951, and our Representative will call and give you a
GENEROUS TRADE-IN ON YOUR OLD MACHINE
ELECTROLUX
6'5
PER WEEK
HALLSTROM
9'4
PER WEEK
KELVINATOR
It'S
PER WEEK
nm
S.T.C.
12'6
PER WEEK
CROSLEY
12'10
PER WEEK
POPE
14'-
PER WEEK
A "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
n


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4004
Wednesday, November 7, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
|
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
ACTION ON SUEZ
THE lead to the Arabs has been given, ever since
the deposition of King Farouk, by Egypt, of which
Syria sometimes has been the tool. The fact that
the United Nations has admitted Israel as a member
and that all the Arab countries of importance have
also pledged themselves to the U.N. Charter means
nothing to a Middle Eastern Hitler who openly aims
to create an Asian-African Moslem empire with
himself as its Fuehrer.
Nasser and his satellites have for the whole
decade of Israel’s existence been committed to the
belief that there is no solution for the Israel prob-
lem save the destruction of Israel. The United
Nations edicts have been repeatedly and uniformly
disobeyed by the Egyptians and Hashemites of
Jordan. In glaring contravention of the 1888
Treaty, shipping serving Israel has been denied, by
Egyptian blockade, the use of the Suez Canal.
The Security Council’s order for the ending of
the blockade, issued as far back as 1951, has been
ignored.
During the early part of this year Mr.
Hammarskjold, secretary-general to U.N.0., devoted
endless time to the settlement of an armistice. A
Truce Supervisory Commission, under command —
of course—of an American, General Burns, has
since proved as ineffective as the Korean Armistice
Supervisory Commission and every other body of
its kind.
When Mr. Hammarskjold brought back his
solution to the Security Council on June 4 last
the British Ambassador to U.N.0., Sir Pierson
Dixon, moved a resolution which commended the
parties—lsrael, Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon
—for coming to an agreement; called on Israel and
others to carry out speedily the measures agreed
upon with the secretary-general; and to co-operate
with General Bums in implementing the Security
Council’s resolution of April 4 in ensuring full
compliance with the armistice agreements. The
resolution requested General Burns to ensure that
the parties observed the cease-fire and to report
any serious violation to the Security Council.
The British resolution, as originally submitted,
held a reference to the need to create conditions in
which, a peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli
dispute could be achieved on a “mutually accept-
able basis.” But the Arab bloc vehemently opposed
this clause, despite the fact that the United States,
France, Peru and other countries were fully
behind it.
The Arab viewpoint was expressed by M.
Shukairy (Syria), who clearly showed how defiant
the Arab countries were towards the United
Nations. He said: —
N The inherent rights of the Arabs cannot De
made a matter subject to the acceptance or refusal
of Israel or others To satisfy the Arab countries
it is needful to begin from the beginning and
write-off every resolution on Palestine since the
resolution of November 29, 1947 The establish-
ment of Israel, its membership of the United
Nations, and all other resolutions will have to be
revoked; then, and only then, can the U.N. look
forward to a solution on “a mutually-acceptable
basis.” •
It went without saying that Russia backed the
Arab move for the deletion of the British aspiration
for a settlement on a “mutually acceptable basis.”
It also went without saying that, having adopted the
Syrian view, the Middle Eastern problem could
only be solved,by the destruction of Israel; the
Jordanians and Egyptians, despite their under-
takings for an armistice, continued warlike raids
on Israel territory.
Within a few days of the Security Council
debate the Jordanians promulgated an assertion
that the Israelis were concentrating large forces for
the invasion of Jordan—a statement which proved
on investigation to have no ground. An approach
by Ben Gurion, of Israel, to Nasser through an
Egyptian journalist, in which he offered to visit
Cairo and discuss all issues, was ignored. By
July 15 the futile armistice commission was calling
on the Jordanians to cease commando raids on
Israeli territory. But the only response was more
raids across both the Jordan and Egyptian borders.
Meanwhile, Syria set to work to produce a
military alliance with Jordan and to organise for
an Arab federation with Egypt in its head and a
Customs-union as a preliminary.
After the illegal seizure of the Suez Canal,
Nasser intensified the blockade of Israeli trade. He
justified it, as the other Arabs justify their raids
by'the expression of the view of the Syrian Govern-
ment quoted above. In short, he declared that
Egypt was, in effect, at war with Israel; that there-
fore the blockade was necessary. It is war which
transcends all United Nations principles. Like
Russia, the Arab countries are prepared to recognise
U.N. decisions only when they serve their purposes.
Otherwise, they flagrantly ignore the charter in
their avowed purpose of destroying one of the
United Nations.
When, however, Israel, seizing a propitious
moment when Jewish politics are proving a factor
in a U.S. Presidential election and when all Europe
is becoming restive under the tactics of Nasser at
Suez, attacks Egypt, an ayowed enemy bent on
Israel’s destruction, there are loud cries from the
Arabs and others to U.N.O. about Israel’s
aggression.
It was quite obvious that, allowed to run their
course, events precipitated by this attack would
follow the normal pattern. Mr. Dulles, who has
constituted himself the final authority on the world’s
foreign policy, immediately took the initiative —
without consulting anybody, apparently. He took
it in the same precipitate way which has made
United States diplomacy a danger to its friends
ever since the United States assumed world-
leadership . . . diplomacy which fed Russian and
Communist expansion in Asia and has very nearly
liquidated the British Commonwealth; diplomacy
which, from the beginning, has made U.N.O. its
instrument, potent only when it serves American
purposes and affects the law-abiding nations, all
others treating it with contempt.
He took the matter to the Security Council,
having told American nationals to leave the Middle
East. He took it, as even American commentators
such as Mr. Walter Lippmann admitted, on the
basis of ignoring Egyptian raids, blockade and
provocation, and the avowed intention of the Arab
bloc to blot Israel off the map and to put forward
Egypt as a victim of the brutal aggression of a
country with a fraction of its resources and
population.
As Mr. Lippmann wrote, “it was indefensible
to ignore, and thus condone, the extreme provoca-
tion of the Egyptian raids” which took place within
the past few weeks or days, obviously organised
by the Egyptian Government and carried out by
commando troops. The resolution which the
United States delegate, Mr. Lodge, submitted would
indeed “have guaranteed the Egyptians behind
their frontier but not the Israelis behind theirs....
made Egyptian territory a United Nations sanctuary
from which the commando-raiders could operate
without fear or reprisal.”
There has been room for grave suspicion
throughout the Suez Canal crisis that the United
States has been playing its own game at the expense
of Europe; that it has been prepared to bid against
Russia in an effort to make the Middle East its
zone, with control of its oil, obtained through
currying Egyptian and Arab favor, not opposing
Nasser’s ambitions so long as the American com-
mercial interests were paramount, driving the
European nations to depend for their oil on
American sources of supply to an extent dictated by
American policy. Under these circumstances it
would have mattered little to Americans if the
Suez were closed by war.
To Europe it mattered everything. The huge
shipping-trade of Europe, the trade which feeds
Britain and the Continent, keeps their industries
going with raw materials, keeps their economies
alive, depend vitally through sea- and air-transport
on the smooth, regular, day-to-day flow of over
2,000,000 barrels of oil through the canal. Europe,
and especially the sea-carrying nations or those
dependent on sea-carriage, could not wait while
the Persian, Liberian, Peruvian and what-have-you
delegates of the United Nations nattered intermin-
ably about the issues and while Nasser and the
Israelis tore at each other over the military moat
of the canal, shutting-off world trade for the sake
of issues which U.N.O. should have settled long
ago by a joint knocking-together of quarrelsome
heads.
Britain and France, with the resources at hand,
acted firmly. In Britain’s case there was not only
practical justification but legal justification.
The British ultimatum which Nasser rejected
did not go as far as prescribed by British rights
under the 1954 treaty. It called on both sides to
remain 10 miles from either side of the canal, so
as not to interfere with traffic. The next step is in
accord with the treaty, and occupation of certain
areas is quite in order legally provided the occupa-
tion is temporary.
It is natural that some sections of British
opinion recoil from the thought of doing this at
the price of war. A population which has suffered
as Britain suffered in World War II can be excused
for going to extremes to keep the peace. It is
natural that American politicians of the views of
Mr. Dulles should be shocked, for they are
accustomed to having their wishes carried out in
crisis. It is also no cause for wonder that certain
sections of the American press, and of Australian
papers which derive their news from U.S. agencies
and their opinion from perfervid U.S. journals,
should follow suit. Their annoyance is magnified
by the fact that the British and French feel
compelled to veil their operations for tactical
reasons in secrecy, wherefore the press is willing, it
seems, to accept the enemy’s word for the nature
of the events, though the Egyptian accounts seem
improbable.
The reaction of President Eisenhower is, after
all, not so violent as that of some other people. He
has stressed the fact that in disagreeing with the
British action he is not prepared to break the
common bonds with the West, and he admits that
Israel, Britain and France have all been subjected
to “grave and repeated provocation.” It might have
saved the situation if his Secretary of State had
acted on these lines in his approach to the Security
Council.
He declared, at the same time, that “it is not
a situation that calls for extravagant fear or
hysteria.” Israel at once expressed itself ready to
accede to remaining 10 miles from the canal if
Egypt would do the same, pending some settlement.
The greatest difficulty is outside the focal issue,
and lies in Nasser’s empire-building operations,
which seek to strip the French of their long-
developed North African colonies for addition to
his proposed empire.
Sir Anthony Eden has promised that the
British police occupation will end the moment
U.N.O. does its duty..
As opinion sobers-down the chances are that
the matter can be transferred to U.N.0., if U.N.O.
shows readiness for firm action. But, in the mean-
time, there need be no doubt but that the course
taken was necessary to safeguard European lifelines
and economy, on which Australia in turn depends.
Even the Democratic Presidential candidate, Mr.
Adlai Stevenson, has given some support to the
intervention, though the press of Australia has
conveniently forgotten the fact.
Mr. Menzies’s exposition was lucid and
rational, if somewhat inhibited by circumstances.
AS for the Opposition in Australia, the less
said about it the better. After remaining silent for
a week while Russian troops, illegally on Hungarian
soil for years, shot-down civilians and wiped-out
villages, Dr. Evatt suddenly spoke when three
Russian Army corps treacherously appeared on
the burnt and blasted countryside and began to
ravage its devoted inhabitants anew to reimpose the
Kremlin’s slave-camp rule.
Then he appeared to mention the outrage which
shocked the world only to excuse it. He thinks
the Russian action, under way before Britain
acted, was “contributed to” by British-French
action against Egypt—by the interposition of a
few battalions of civilised troops between two
large armies of Israelis and Egyptians. He is
obviously at pains to excuse the Russians and to
throw as much blame as possible for their actions
on to the Governments of Britain and his own
country. He infers that events in Hungary and
Egypt are of the same nature , and dictated by the
same motives.
Dr. Evatt is running true to the form he
exhibited during the Petrov inquiry.
The Maker and the Importer
TWO wills, lodged for probate within a few hours
of each other, have stunned those Melburnians
usually capable of guessing other people’s piles:
Frank Beaurepaire’s because he left so much
(£938,000) and Tom Nettlefold’s because he left
so little (£7700).
Nettlefold was well established in Melbourne
when Beaurepaire got cracking in the early ’thirties,
and bofli prospered as the depression lifted; both
became Lord Mayor, and both died suddenly, Sir
Frank in a barber’s chair and Sir Thomas at
Singapore.
Frank Beaurepaire remained very much in the
saddle at Olympic Tyres until his death, but it was
a great surprise to the financial know-alls that,
despite all the time he devoted to sport and civic
affairs and all the money he gave away, he could
amass a million in a little more than two decades.
Tom Nettlefold had almost retired from
business in the last three or four years, although he
still held some directorships, such as of the firm
he founded (T. S. Nettlefold Holding), the Mutual
Store and City Mutual, and his chief interests were
gathering his friends round him for a drink (while
he abstained) and getting into the tropics for the
winter. _ 1 ,
It was presumed he could do this because he
was rich. It may be that this will be the pattern ot
modern Australia: the successful importer will aie
in moderate circumstances and the successtui
manufacturer a millionaire, or thereabouts.
Collins Street.


OILWELL BLAZE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Leaders with Tied Hands
After the potato-index had demonstrated
last month the futility of the quarterly-
adjustment system of wage-variation, it
seemed likely that next Tuesday’s Can-
berra conference on wages would have
more hope of success than the last one.
Victorian Premier Bolte, who at the
earlier conference had refused to aban-
don quarterly adjustments, - had so far
changed his mind as to wipe them out as
far as his State was concerned, and know-
ledge of this would have made acceptance
much easier for the “Labor” Premiers.
At the August conference, fear of what
the next quarterly adjustment might cost
had almost brought the Premiers to agree-
ment. This time apprehension would be
replaced by harsh knowledge, with
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill, bowed down
with the weight of 52-times-11s., multi-
plied by the number of persons on his
Government payroll, feehng perhaps a
little more inclined to face facts than he
was two months ago.
The theory of Premiers’ conferences is
that the Prime Minister and the six
Premiers, each of whom is the leader of
a sovereign State, shall get together in
frank discussion and try to reach agree-
ment on a matter of vital interest to all
of them. But it seems that as far as four
of the Premiers are concerned the frank
discussion will be a waste of time, as it
cannot modify or influence their decision,
which has already been made for them by
an outside body which has no responsi-
bility to any electors, State or Federal.
The executive of the Federal A.L.P. met
in Canberra last week and decided that
State “Labor” Governments must “con-
tinue to pay cost-of-living adjustments
while prices and profits are uncon-
trolled.” The decision, which was arrived
at without any consideration of its effect
on State finances, was described as an
“instruction to ‘Labor’ Premiers as to the
policy they must follow at the con-
ference.”
Nothing in the philosophy of the A.L.P.
is less democratic than this assumption
that “Labor” Premiers and Prime Minis-
ters must take their orders from a junta
of 12 men outside Parliament. Herbert
Morrison told a party conference a few
years ago that it was the duty of a Labor.
Government to govern in the interests of
the whole country, not merely of the
Labor party. If any “Labor” Premier
told the A.L.P. executive that, he’d be
expelled for heresy.
What Is Censure?
“In the ACT”: Little would be thought
or remembered of “Labor’s” censure-
motion on October 30 if it were not for
the fact that some of the arguments on
both sides are likely to crop up at the
Premiers’ Conference in Canberra on
November 13 and 14.
There were remarkable features of the
debate, not the least being the complete
disregard by Evatt and Co. of the need
for showing where they would get the
funds to meet either the unemployment
or the heavy expenditures which would
result if their ideas were ever hnhappily
translated into action.
It was noteworthy that although the
Opposition knew the debate would be
“gagged” after three speakers on each
side, those chosen to support Evatt didn’t
include any of the party’s three amateur
economists —Calwell, Crean and Cairns
—although the latter yapped from a back
bench at Menzies until the Speaker
threatened him with expulsion.
The Doc. was followed by Ward and-
by Webb (W.A.), both of them pursuing
lines drearily familiar to all constant
listeners to debates. There was nothing
constructive, and nothing which could be
construed as legitimate censure of the
Government’s economic policy. Evatt’s
motion mentioned the need for “a
national economic plan,” but he didn’t
explain what this really meant, except
for his revealing remarks which enabled
Menzies to charge him- with wanting
reversion to the whole business of war-
time controls, with nostalgia for “the
good old days of the war.”
The Prime Minister stressed the
country’s prosperity in spite of the
calamity - howlers, mentioned that
“Labor” could never look forward to
winning an election, at least until it took
a step it wak not prepared to take at
present (a nice dig at Evatt’s continued
“leadership”), and got in a typical thrust
when, in reply to Reg Pollard’s inter-
jection “You’ve lost your punch,” he
said, “You may be right, brother. There’s
nothing so softening to a man as never
getting an opponent worth fighting.”
Menzies and some Government
members drew attention to the fact that
both Evatt and Ward turned their backs
on the Government benches and
addressed their own followers, thereby
raising the question of whether they were
trying to convince them. Menzies said
he had thought originally that the motion
was propaganda directed to the Premiers,
but it was obviously really intended for
the Opposition. None of the Opposition
speeches dealt with any of the matters
on which the Government could be
regarded as vulnerable to Some criticism.
They weren’t censure of the Govern-
ment ; they were a desperate attempt to
persuade the party and the nation that
“Labor” is still a fighting and coherent
force. The attempt was a dismal failure.
Footnote on Suez
“Abdul Assiz” : It has long been
evident that Middle East oil is the main-
stay of industry and employment for all
Mediterranean and North Atlantic
countries in Europe, of which Britain
and France are the most vitally con-
cerned. In every responsible technical
petroleum journal in the world, this fact
has been recognised for years past,
and it is realised that any interruption in
the speedy and steady arrival of Middle
East oil would cause widespread industrial
disorder.
It should be no cause for surprise that
neither Britain nor France could await
the result of the wordy deliberations of
U.N.O. before taking direct action to
prevent closure of the Suez Canal, par-
ticularly as the imminence of the U.S.
elections forbade any hope of active
support from that quarter.
The relative culpability of Israel,
Jordan and Egypt in starting a conflagra-
tion which might lead to another World
War is beside the point; they have all
been so patently in the wrong that respon-
sibility for striking the first blow is only
of academic interest. The irony lies in the
fact that one of the chief sufferers from
the bottling-up of the canal and the re-
sultant Middle East chaos will be Aramco
(Arabian American Oil Co.), whose
selfish and commercially ridiculous
treaty with Saudi Arabia is
(both directly and indirectly) the sinews
of war on the Arab-Gyppo side.
A slight hope that hostilities may soon
be over is born of the fact that the placing
of the descendant of the proud House of
Sa’ud in the same bed as Nasser (whose
antecedents can hardly be described as
courtly) will not make for good bed-
fellowship.
Cricket Insolvency
From London: Cricket’s literature far
exceeds that of any other game. But one
sheet that is unique in not being “ghosted”
and in not being available at Lord’s
bookstall is a searching pamphlet, The
Cricket Industry, published at 2s. 6d. by
Political and Economic Planning.
“Cricket,” states the preamble, “is an
expression of the national character and,
as such, inscrutable No rational
answers can be found to many of the
questions asked about itv” After giving
a brief history P.E.P. goes on to “assemble
as many as possible of the known facts
about the organisation of the game.”
Viewed objectively and dispassionately,
our national summer game certainly
provides some strange revelations and
anomalies: The Australian tours are the
only ones to yield a profit to the M.C.C.
(in other tours the hosts take the profit,
after paying the expenses). A prospective
M.C.C.-member must wait for 40 years,
before he can wear that vivid tie which,
more often than not, represents social
exclusiveness rather than ability to play
cricket. The counties would be bankrupt
if they relied on gate-money alone.
There has been a marked fall in attend-
ance since 1949. Lancashire pays the
most in salaries (£17,000) and Essex the
least (£6000). A professional in one of
the wealthier counties earns £7OO-£9OO a
year, while a star player in the northern
leagues can earn £lOOO a season —up to
£6O a match. In county cricket, as is
well known, the household names derive
considerable incomes from “various pick-
ings outside the game.” While attend-
ances at the county grounds on Tuesdays
and Fridays may be so low as not to
cover expenses, the listening or viewing
spectators on the air during a Test-
match will number up to 3,000,000; and
Nelson, Lancs., with a population of
only 45,000, has 2000 members, with
“gates” of 12,000.
The pamphlet, commenting upon
criticisms of county cricket and the
M.C.C. as “preserves of snobbery and
class-distinction,” advocates “widening
representation,” the abolishing of mid-
week matches, weekend (i.e., Sunday)
cricket and the end of distinction between
amateurs and professionals. It implies
that the game would benefit if League
cricket, at present ignored by “Wisden,
the M.C.C. and all counties except York-
shire, were given recognition.
“The evidence seems to be,” it sums-up,
“that a six-day week in cricket and full-
employment do not go together.... In
crudely economic terms, county cricket
is fighting a losing battle against shortage
of capital, shortage of income and
shortage of the highly-skilled labor the
game requires.” But, “along with the
English licensing laws, early-closing, driv-
ing on the left and British weights and
measures, it may well survive and
confound all its critics.”
Aid Wrongly Directed?
Dumping of American flour in
Indonesia to the detriment of the
developing Australian trade in flour in
the same country suggested to a Labor
member of the House of Representatives,
“Joe” Clark (N.S.W.), that Australia
might have done better to have presented
a gift of wheat to our neighbor Republic
as a part of Colombo Plan aid rather than
an expensive fleet of buses.
This eminently reasonable idea was
propounded in a question by Clark, on
which the Acting Minister for External
Affairs dodged the issue. It was admitted
that Australia had “formally protested”
in Washington against the U.S. gift of
wheat or flour valued at five-million
dollars to Indonesia over a two-year
period, and it was also acknowledged that
Australia was giving Indonesia a hundred
buses through the Colombo Plan at a cost
to Australia of £636,000, including im-
ported components costing us £192,100.
The Minister said the Indonesian
Government had asked for the buses to
meet the urgent transport problem in
Djakarta, and added that whenever sur-
pluses of Australian primary products
were available, the possibilities of making
gifts of flour were “always carefully
explored.” In the last four years Aus-
tralian assistance in this form to Colombo
Plan countries had cost £7,.200,000.
It certainly seems that, m this instance,
the Indonesian gift, the Government
missed the bits. Our present-
day economics suggest that we should
concentrate whatever Colombo Plan gifts
propose making on primary products
which it might be difficult to sell elsewhere
and which may prevent the U.S. from
undermining our legitimate markets.
Red Moves in Gallery
“Mugga Way”: In conformity with the
current Communist policy of making
friends (they’ve always tried to influence
people) and admitting past errors, the
representative of the N.S.W. Communist
paper “Tribune” in the Parliamentary
press-gallery in Canberra is arranging
for each head of a news-service to receive
a free copy of the “Tribune” each week.
The ostensible reason is that the
“Tribune” is not included in the
newspaper-files laid out for inspection in
the Parliamentary library, and that
journalists, like some members of the
Parliament, might feel some diffidence
about asking for it at the inquiry-desk.
At the same time the “Tribune” man is
joining far more in gallery activities
than his recent predecessors.
This new tactic may not be without
significance in the current Communist
line of drawing attention to the
similarities of Communist and “Labor”
policies and of working hard for some
form of agreement between the Evatt-
led (or, at least, Evatt-headed) segment
of “Labor” and the Communist party.
Some members of the press-gallery may
have “Labor” sympathies, a surmise with
some foundation of fact, and it could be
that the “Tribune” is also being supplied
free to some members of the Opposition
anxious to learn the latest Red approach
to national and international policies.
There is, of course, no reason why
the “Tribune” should not be read by
persons of mature intelligence. It is
always useful to know what one’s enemies
have written, whether it be a book or a
weekly news-sheet, and in this case to
study r the jargon by which the party in
this country, as in all others, faithfully
follows the often confusing instructions
issued from Moscow. It can be informa-
tive to study the shifts of policy and to
deduce the reasons for them —especially
when such changes are compared with
revelations or announcements of official
“Labor” policy.
Therefore the press - gallery may
produce in future even better-informed
articles on political trends in the Left of
politics. There need be little apprehen-
sion that its members will succumb to
the wiles or smiles of the Communist
party. The gallery is still acutely
conscious of what was done to it by
Rupert Lockwood and Fergan O’Sullivan.
Hungary and Egypt
“Ek Dum”: Events in Hungary are far
more serious than those in Egypt, which
will settle themselves the moment Britain
and France are assured that a U.N.O.
police-force is available to cope with the
situation.
Under Stalin’s brutal rule, Eastern
Europe was kept under harsh control, but
the moment that control was loosened in
any degree, even the 53 divisions along
the Russian borders of Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Rumania, the 22
divisions in East Germany and the 10
divisions in the other satellite countries
could not keep down the surge of desire
for freedom and contact with the West.
In Poland the upsurge was defeated obviously
by a neat manoeuvre which let the old Govern-
ment slip out but which set-up another Com-
munist dictatorship, linked with Moscow and
ready to Tolerate' the presence of Russian troops,
perhaps under threat. Whatever the inclinations
of an oppressed people, they were apt to be
more than discreet if they have 22 divisions of
a brutal oppressor on one side and 53 a few
hours away on the other.
In Hungary, it was a different story. The
Hungarians were not isolated in a sandwich.
Their borders ran with Y ugoslavia and with
freed Austria. They knew that incipient insur-
rection lay across the border to the east in
Rumania. They had Tito on their flank. They
rebelled.
The same manoeuvre by the Communists as
had been tried in, Poland failed. The rebels
were ruthlessly' massacred, villages burned,
countryside ravaged by the two Russian
divisions but without curbing the will of the
rebels.
The Russians then pretended to give in, to
accept Comrade Nagy ostensibly as Premier, but
really as the tool of Comrade Kadar, the newly
inducted general-secretary of the Hungarian
Communist party who was to serve as a
Moscow-directed dictator.
Unfortunately, the Hungarian rebels were
not prepared to accept Comrade Kadar or
another Communist regime. They moved to
compel the Russian troops to go home and
the new Premier and his controllers to accept
a non-Communist, all-party Government on
Western lines.
On October 25 President Eisenhower said
that the “U.S. Government deplored the inter-
vention of Soviet military forces in Hungary'
and stated that after the peace-treaty those
forces should have been withdrawn, and that
they were obviously being kept there “not to
protect Hungary against armed aggression
from without but rather to continue an occupa-
tion of Hungary by the forces of an alien
Government for its own purposes.”
He said that the demands of the Hungarian
student* and workers “clearly fall within the
framework of those human rights to which all
are entitled and which are offered in the
Charter of the United Nations, and which are
specifically guaranteed to the Hungarian
people by the treaty of peace” to which the
Governments of United States and Russia were
parties.
On October 28 it was reported that all
Hungary now was in revolt, and that Nagy had
given way to the insurgents’ demands that he
should request the withdrawal of Soviet forces,
disband the secret-police, dismiss certain of
his Ministers and form a composite all-party
Government. The Russian commander appar-
ently expressed willingness to leave. The
secret-police were being disbanded.
That day, in the Security Council, three days
after President Eisenhower’s statement, Britain,
France and the United States moved to indict
Russia on a charge of “violently repressing the
rights of the Hungarian people by military
action.”
It was, of course, apparent that this move
would be countered by the Russian delegate,
even if necessary by the use of the veto, claim-
ing that what was happening was a “flagrant
intervention in the internal affairs of Hungary."
The Security Council move was averted by the
trapping of the Hungarian Government, which
apparently believed that it had come to an
agreement with the Russians or which
perhaps was attempting to play a double game.
It protested against the interference of the
Security Council with its domestic affairs and
then went ahead gaily with 4lts negotiations,
with the liquidation of the secret-police and
with plans for breaking with Russia which
culminated in cession from the Warsaw mutual-
defence pact which was signed in September,
1955, and placed Hungarian troops, among
others, under Marshal Koniev’s overall
command.
Its protest against the Security Council s
“violation of the sovereignty of Hungary” came
after Sir Pierson Dixon had given the Security
Council information that two very strong Soviet
armored units had crossed from Rumania into
Hungary and were moving very fast towards
Buda-Pest.
Within a few days Buda-Pest had been ringed
with artillery and —without warning— blasted
to pieces. The Moscow-controlled Communist
party had taken over. Nagy and his Ministers
had been captured by the Russians. They were-
in complete and ruthless charge of Buda-Pest,
though elsewhere resistance was general. They
were, however, preparing to mop-up the little
country. And they were obviously doing it,
knowing that if the reaction of U.N.O. was
what it might be expected to be they were
acting under the shadow of world war.
They had succeeded in hoodwinking the
Western press, whose general view was “Russians
Leaving Buda-Pest as Rebels Victorious.” It was
immediately after that that Marshal Zhukov,
U.S.S.R. Defence Minister, claimed that troops
could be pulled out of Hungary only by con-
sent of all the members of the Warsaw Pact.
It was also immediately after this that Britain
and France decided to move temporarily into
the Egyptian bases along the Suez Canal. 11
will be left to history to estimate how far these
Governments were influenced by the knowledge
of the dangers arising from the situation w
(Continued on next page)


Eastern Europe and of the position that might
arise if the Hungarian situation provoked action
by Nato or United Nations. Egypt has
shown itself throughout the Suez crisis the tool
of Moscow. Its bases are equipped for Russian
aircraft-maintenance, ft has Russian destroyers
of the most modern type delivered last June
and therefore must have basic equipment for
Russian naval ships. It has a large nest of
Russian and Czech technicians already in
residence.
It is more than likely that the knowledge
of what was brewing not. only in Hungary but
in Rumania, where there had been outbreaks
against the Russians, Poland, where the
Government was having difficulty with popular
feeling, and East Germany, where open demands
for liberalisation of the Government method
and for the departure of Russian troops had
been suppressed with a brutal threat of force,
influenced Sir Anthony Eden’s declaration of
urgency which followed straight after the
announcement in U.N.O. of fresh Russian troop
moves. Its anxiety to deny airfields to the
Egyptians at the outset was a natural
preliminary to invasion.
Russia is not merely fighting to repress the
Hungarians. It is fighting to retain its domina-
tion over Eastern Europe, to keep the industries
of all the Iron Curtain countries within its
-grasp, to save its face with the Asians, with
the Communist parties of the world, and to
present the face of its military front (and its
spearheads aimed at Nato defences) intact.
This fact goes a long way to explain the
remarkable ferocity of the attack on the British-
French action against Egypt by fellow-travellers
and others who usually do Communism’s work.
This attack has served very well to divert
attention from Eastern Europe.
The Governments of the world knew on
October 28 that Israel was mobilising. President
Eisenhower on that day asked Mr. Ben Gurion
not to do anything to endanger the peace of the
world. At the same time, following the elec-
tions in Jordan, it seemed a possibility that the
military moves by Irak towards that country
foreshadowed a contest between Nasser-and
Irakis to take Jordan into “protective custody.”
it became certain that if any attempt was
made by the Egyptians to win this race the
Israelis would take a hand to stop it.
The Iraki move and Arab strikes against
Western interests, which had been operating
before the Israeli move towards Egypt, have
since been held up by the world press as if
they had developed as the outcome of the
British-French invasion of the Canal zone.
In fact, as in many other matters, the whole
position and its background has been curiously
misrepresented in important factors.
If U.N.O. had acted when it became plain
that the situation was dangerous there would
have been no need for action by the British-
French forces. But, as with many other
matters, it dithered, and the evidence suggests
that it will still be dithering days hence.
The military side of the Israeli-Egyptian
events is only in embryo and may never go far
beyond embryo. With a strong forward base
in the Gaza strip, an enclave into Israel territory,
with air-bases there and two divisions in
entrenched positions, it might have been expected
that the Egyptians would hold the Israelis
attack at least for a time and perhaps threaten
their rear if they advanced along other lines
towards the canal.
The Egyptians, however, lived up to the
Australian soldiers’ general opinion of them.
Equally, the Egyptian Air Force, equipped with
modern Russian fighters and bombers, seems to
have gone out of existence under the impact of
the preliminary British air-attacks.
Five days after the campaign began the
Israelis were approaching the canal. They had
previously expressed willingness to hold back
10 miles from it in accordance with the British
ultimatum, if the Egyptians would agree to do
the same. But- the Egyptians refused.
The one important Egyptian military opera-
tion, apart from flight and screaming
propaganda, which the news-hungry Western
press has been all too ready to accept for fact,
seems to have centred in attempts to block the
canal, which it is bound tp keep open in
accordance with the Convention of 1888. It
remains to be seen whether these have been
successful.
The press, from the moment of the announce-
ment that the British and French would act,
expected to see divisions of troops pouring
ashore in stricken Egypt. In plain fact the
British-French move was so unpremeditated that
the force had actually to be put together before
being embarked. This has been done quickly.
It consists of perhaps eight to ten British
battalions, including paratroops, apart from
whatever French there may be and a naval
forces of which the basic ingredient is four
carriers, plus an air-force centred round
Canberras, based in Cyprus.
Its commander-in-chjef, Genera! Sir Charles
Keightley, commanded the 6th Armored
Division in Tunisia in 1942-43, the V Armored
Corps in 1944-45. He was C.-in-C. on the
Rhine 1948-51 and in the Far East, 1951-53.
The force was about ripe to land when this
was written on November 5, but under a blanket
of natural secrecy.
If it meets with as little resistance as the
Israelis, Nasser’s prestige among Arab peoples,
obviously waiting to see which way the cat
jumps, will have fallen with a hard bump.
POLITICAL POINTS
If Nasser or the Reds get hurt
It will not be because of Bert.
t. *
Somebody once remarked that if Cleo-
patra’s nose had been half-an-inch longer
(or was it shorter?) the whole course of
history might have been changed. Simi-
larly, if Foster Dulles’s appendix had
played-up a little earlier . . .
,- - V
• •
dl
The pretence that all United Nations
members will loyally observe majority
decisions of the Assembly on all matters
won’t hold water. Most of them have
some issue which they regard as vital
yet which could not strictly be classed as
domestic. Neither India nor Pakistan
would be likely to accept an unfavorable
decision on Kashmir; nor would Indo-
nesia on West New Guinea; nor South
Africa on South-west Africa or, for that
matter, Australia on the Territory of New
Guinea. Japan has been voicing objec-
tions to the American occupation of
Okinawa, but if the matter came before
the Security Council it’s dollars to dough-
nuts that the United States would use the
veto for the first time.
• •
Of the array of nations which voted
at U.N.O. against Anglo-French military
action over Suez, a proportion seemed to
be talking out of the sides of their
mouths. Privately they must have been
all for it.
• •
Vic. Governor Sir Dallas Brooks has
been given a five-year extension of his
term. The announcement seems to have
given great pleasure both to His Ex, and
to the people of Victoria.
• •
On Thursday the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment, after the Premier, the Leader of
the Opposition and the Leader of the
Country party had expressed grave mis-
givings about the situation in the Middle
East and pious hopes for a peaceful
solution, adjourned till February 26.
• •
The privately-sponsored Tin Hare Bill
got through the South Australian
Assembly by 15 votes to 13. It goes to
the Council this week in a muddled form.
An amendment incorporated in it a
section of the old Coursing Act which
bans tin-hares, although the bill itself
seeks to legalise them. The amendment
was passed in anticipation of a further
one which would put tin-hare racing
under the control of the National Cours-
ing Association. This second amendment
was defeated on the casting vote of the
chairman of committees. Now no one
knows whether the hares (or the dogs) are
coming or going.
• •
Electors of Ithaca (Q.) are wondering
when the date of the by-election to pro-
vide them with, a representative in the
Queensland Assembly will be announced.
Leonard Eastment, who succeeded the
late Premier Hanlon in 1952 as “Labor”
member for the electorate, died on July
29 last. What with the shearers’ strike, the
Foley affair and faction-troubles the
atmosphere has been unfavorable from
Gair’s point of view. But three months
is rather overlong to allow such considera-
tions to postpone the poll.
• •
Egypt is reported to be considering
getting out of U.N.O. because of its
futility in a crisis. The U.K. and France
apparently agree in principle. Dr. Evatt
doesn’t.
• •
“Emtee”: Premier Cosgrove says that
recent publicity had been responsible for
heavy bookings for the Festival of Tas-
mania, to be held early in December, coin-
cident with the centenary of the meeting
of the Speck’s first Parliament. Tasmanian
affairs have certainly been front-page
news of late.
• •
“Stromlo”: Tasmanian “Labor”
Senator Aylett, describing the hard lot
of a soldier-settler. “I shall give the
Senate some idea of the misfortunes with
which this man was confronted”: 7
He took over his block, and started milk-
ing on September 27. In the same year,
on November 2, his son, aged nearly three
years, met with an accident, broke his arm,
and was in hospital for nearly three
weeks. In the following January his wife
had a daughter. In April of the following
year a son was born, and in June of the
same year this man broke his leg
The recital of woes went on to describe
the scalding of a son and a daughter’s
loss of a finger, and so forth. But what
puzzled Senators on both sides of the
Chamber was why the births of a
daughter and son were included in the
category of “misfortunes”?
• •
One of Cahill’s henchmen explaining
the Hire Purchase Bill to someone in the
game: “You know, we’ve got nothing
against you fellows. It’s just that you’re
making it hard for us to fill our f own
loans.” , '
• •
In making an inescapable comment on
Russia’s attack on Hungary Evatt could
not resist the opportunity of putting part
of the blame on Britain and France: “I
believe that the crisis in Hungary has
been contributed to by the similar action
of Britain and France in relation to
Egypt. In each case force is being used
THE THINKER
against a country without the slightest
justification in law and in clear opposition
to U.N. rules and principles.”
In lumping together two utterly dis-
similar cases —the usp of force is almost
the only common point—Evatt com-
pletely disregards the past history of the
two issues, the past records of the parties
and the present attitude of his two lots of
“aggressors.” Britain and France have
both signified that they will willingly
hand over to a United Nations police-
force the task of keeping the peace in the
Middle East. Russia dare not give any
such assurance over Hungary.
• .«
The effect of weekend penalty-rates
for employees on trams and buses is
brought out clearly in the latest report
of N. S. Wales Transport Commissioner
Shoebridge. Average loss on week-days
last year was £9600; on Saturdays
£16,900 and on Sundays £14,400. Total
deficit for the year was £4,138,101, which
was an increase of £850,374 on the
previous year. Best hope of cutting-down
the losses, Shoebridge thinks, is 4 to speed-
up the switchover from trams to buses
and to make more use of the available
one-man buses. The present programme
provides for the replacement of 30 per
cent, of the present trams by buses within
the next three years.
• •
Delayed by a general election, the Tas-
manian Budget was presented last week.
It follows the general pattern of this
season’s State Budgets —a record deficit
(£1,050,183), a tax on hire-purchase agree-
ments and increased stamp - duties.
Treasurer Turnbull ascribed the deficit to
increased wages and general costs.
• - •
When the Russkis and Nazis invaded
Poland 17 years ago, as an immediate
result of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact,
Molotov complacently announced that
“the Polish State has ceased to exist.”
There has been no comment from
Molotov on recent developments in
Poland (or Hungary), nor much from
his correspondent and confidant, Dr.
Evatt.
• •
. “Mugga Way”: Quietly but effectively
the Public Accounts Committee is working
towards its objectives. It is giving those
M.P.s who take their responsibilities seri-
ously an opportunity to appraise
departmental spending in a very different
light from that presented by departments
themselves and by Ministers. It is also
jolting some Ministers from complacency
and prompting some departments to take
a fresh look at themselves and their
procedures. The committee’s reports and
minutes of evidence are taking their place
as textbooks in university public-adminis-
tration courses. A pity they’re not made
compulsory reading for every M.P.
• •
After all the criticism from a small but
vocal section of reporters, the four
explosions at Maralinga were carried out
successfully. Sir William Penney, director
of the British atomic-weapons-research
establishment, said a great deal of valu-
able information had been obtained,
from the military and civil-defence points
of view, and much more would be avail-
able when the trial results were completely
analysed. All tests in Australia since
1952 had been conducted “without a
single hitch,” making them a notable
example of British Commonwealth
co-operation.'
• •
Advocates of- the move to give
Adelaide tin-hares profess to believe that
gambling will not be associated with the
sport. They might just as well talk of
running breweries without booze.
• •
N. S. Wales Electricity Commission’s
new Wangi power-station at Lake
Macquarie came to life last week when
its first 50,000-kilowatt unit began feed-
ing electricity into the interconnected
grid. When completed the station will
have a capacity of 330,000 kilowatts.
With Wallerawang on the western coal-
field and Tallawarra on the southern, it
represents the new policy of building the
stations at the fields. It is cheaper to
transmit power than transport coal. But
will the price to the consumer come
down? Present talk is all the other way.
Melbourne tramways, from which the
public gets an increasingly poor service,
also comes up blandly with successively
increased deficits, a robust £713,000 this
year. Had Bolte not acted to stop the
automatic c.-0.-l. rises the Tramways
Board might have managed the round
™ im °n next October Bolte says, despite
xos . s ’ ares won tbe increased to
re °uce it. Apparently there s no prospect
° f the service being improved—to reduce
Ix - # #
“Burmese statesman U Nu has protested to
Chou En-lai against the infiltration of Chinese
after a su PP° sed withdrawal of Red
Said U Nu: “It’s possibly tru
That a fu of your units withdru ;
But yu’ve sneaked y’ur civilians
In. Soon there’ll be millions” . . .
Snapped Chu: “Well, our methods U
Nu!”


Gociety
all the innocent diversions in which
I have indulged I know none more
rewarding than making stone paths.
Inch by inch and yard by yard you build
something enduring and beautiful; a deft
hand with the cement-trowel, and it all
works out as sweetly as a jigsaw-puzzle ;
it does away with the paspalum for ever
and it makes your backyard look like a
castle. I was explaining all this at a
cocktail-party and one confounded young
nincompoop said in final and scornful
dismissal, “Oh, you’re a crazy-paver, are
you?”—“S.”
“P.0.M.C.”: Undertakers are making
it so tough in Sydney these days that it’s
not so much a question of whether you
can take it with you as whether it’s
enough to pay your fare.
❖ *x* *
“Cash Count”: I can’t buy my
favorite Italian gorgonzola, or even the
Australian, a pretty good substitute; it’s
all going out to the Heidelberg village to
feed the Olympic huskies. Shades of the
war years, when our unit subsisted on
boiled mutton while our Yankee
neighbors feasted on pork and beef!
❖ +♦♦ *i*
“Apemantus”: A news-broadcaster
says that transport for Westralia’s attack
on Argentine ants will be a “cawler-trype
tactor.” It was a typist’s error, though,
that, through an announcer, gave us “die
well-known rabbit-poison, ‘logo.’ ” Never
heard of “logo”? Try “ten-eighty”—
“1080.”
❖ ❖
“Vidi”: Home from office 6.30; wife
and kids waiting in car at gate; kids fed
and pyjama-clad. Drive to Drive-in
movie by 7.00. Get out and locate light-
snack bar in centre projection-block;
directed to barbecue-steaks way down
front at base of giant screen. Can I wait
on, then carry, steaks 150yds. back to
car and consume before movie com-
mences? Settle for quick-service ham-
burgers—alas! Movie begins. Suspect
“Every time We look at each other We get the giggles .”
I’ve left my tinted glasses on ; check and
find them clear. Although the projector-
lamps are boosted they have to throw the
image 325 ft.: result, couldn’t see as much
of Zsa Zsa Gabor as she and I intended.
Still hungry; throw switch near speaker
volume-control —small red light on
standard beside car should attract
attendant with snack-wagon. Fumble for
dashlight to find money; pull too hard
and illuminate the screen with my head-
lights. Attendant tells me nicely to attract
attention next time by using switch on
speaker. Ice-cream for the kids and pie
and coffee for us; find it impossible to
hold carton of coffee in one hand and rip
top off packaged sugar held in other ; use
my teeth; spill coffee (arid me in my
best suit). Put on overhead light so kids
can see to eat ice-cream; put it off so
kids can see cartoon ; put it on again
to wipe ice-cream off my shoulder
(and me in my best spit). Settle
down, still hungry, with child asleep
on my lap until I can stand Jerry
Lewis’s ape-apeing sounds no longer ;
turn him off. Turn it on again
for Zsa Zsa. Conclusions: well-
organised American novelty, but
Zsa Zsa more woo-woo in an
indoor-theatre after dinner at home.
“McChronicle”: After, according to
the critics, a pretty wild night, Sydney
music appears to be coming home with
the Malko'.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: Social-security benefits in
New Zealand must be nearly “all that is
humanly possible”: one Parliamentarian
has seriously suggested that the benefits
be extended to sick farm-animals. I fore-
see a hectic time for the vets, dealing with
ailing poddy-calves and sheep afflicted
with facial eczema, and some interesting
debates upon whether drugs may be sup-
plied free to gallopers and trotters —such
a costly item for the struggling owner
and trainer of today.
❖ *:+
‘Tabba”: Among the civilian occupa-
tions listed against the names of the ship’s
company were those of an A. 8.:
“laborer’s assistant,” and a stoker: “fair-
ground technician.” Later I asked that
stoker what he’d been doing for a crust
in Civvy-street. “Well,” he said. “You
know when you put a penny in a pin-ball
machine and nothing happens, a bloke
comes along and kicks it, doesn’t he?
Well, that’s my job.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Mac Hoots”: My friends were on their
honeymoon at Canberra’s new motel, and
such were their raptures that I am
tempted to give the concern a free ad.
There was, to begin with, a most gorgeous
double divan-bed with an inner-spring
mattress; also, for some mysterious
purpose, a similar single-bed. Your car
was parked just outside the door, so that
you didn’t have to tote your luggage up
miles of stairs and corridors as in the
average hotel; you could jtrst go and get
it when you wanted it. There was a toilet
and all that. There was an electric-jug
and a tiny little packet of tea. When you
wanted beer you could ring the manager
and they brought it to you, so that you
and your friends could drink in ease and '
privacy, lolling on the divans, instead of
being packed into a crowded lounge.
There was even a strange little gadget,
like the sole of a shoe, that popped out
“It's getting more like you every day."
of the wall so that you could clean your
shoes on it. When you wanted to eat
you strolled over to the restaurant or the
snack-bar and were served as m the best
of Sydney eateries. It did seem a little
pricey; but when you think of the com-
fort, and the shoe-cleaning gadget, and
that bed . . .
+*♦ ♦♦♦ *>
“Moorapi”: A Carlton (Vic.) business-
man borrows pictures from artists and
hangs them in his office. When one is
sold to an admiring visitor, which often
happens, he hands the proceeds to the
artist, commission-free. Thus, he says,
the artist gets free exhibition in a public
place ; and he, his staff and his callers
have the pleasure of handsome and varied
wall-decoration.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“C.A.A.”: A Geelong (Vic.) plumber
has installed two-way radio communi-
cation with his trucks, so instructions will
be one thing they won’t have to go back
for.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: In Italy I could see
the essential difference between “donne”
and “uomini”; but, in a hurry, and faced
with " signore” and “signori,*’ how does
one remember that, although as a singular
noun “ signore ” signifies “gentleman,” as
a plural it means “ladies”?
♦l*
“Zend-Avesta”: For “Doric’s” benefit
(B. 24/10/’56) Axel Munthe pronounced
Michele “Mikaily.” I . met Dr. Munthe
when I was a boy; he was visiting the
Swedish' Consulate, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Although he had not then (1926) pub-
lished his famous book, he frequently
spoke about “San Mikaily.” I escorted
him to St James’s Park, home of the
crack Newcastle United Soccer team,
where we watched a Cup Tie match. In
those days he was attached, I think, to
the Swedish Court. His English was
good, although he was baffled by the
“English” spoken and shouted by excited
Geordies at the football. That was some-
thing we did have in common.
“Ranger”: If he takes a stroll through
Paris “Doric” will find another variant
of Michael. I never thought a French-
man would give anything but “shell” to
the second syllable of Michel. The
Parisian way to say Rue Michel-Ange,
however, is “Roo Mickel Onj.” Presum-
ably this is because Michael Angelo’s
Christian-name would be given a hard
“c” in his home country.
♦♦♦ * ♦♦♦
“Wusslean”: Last year, during a
Sunday-school anniversary service at our
church, our minister was drenched when
a large flower-bowl fell from its pedestal
at the back of the pulpit. Towards the
close of this year’s service he commented
regretfully that this year’s service had been
free from memorable surprises. But he’ll
remember this anniversary, all right: just
before the final hymn he was informed
that his car, parked outside the church,
had disappeared. It was found a couple
of miles away next morning—stripped.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ailsey”: At Nowra (N.S.W.) there is
no doubt about the path of virtue; on
every street-comer there’s an arrowed
sign indicating the place of worship of
every denomination in the town. Take
the corner of Junction- (the principal
thoroughfare) and Kinghorn-street: on
one side, “Camping area, Methodist
Church, Catholic Church” ; on the other,
“Baptist Church, Salvation Army, Church
of England, Presbyterian Church.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Miss M.”: Wise counsel from Mrs.
Beeton: When giving a dinner party,
do not employ anyone from the stable to
assist the footman. The aroma arising
from the ordinary duties of coachman, groom
or stable-boy is too plainly perceptible in a
dining-room, and is very trying to delicate
persons.
When we give dinner parties, the coach-
man, groom, butler and footman sit at
the head of the table, and the cook,
parlormaid, laundress and stable-boy at
the foot: Could it be . . .? No. Some
people’s best friends might be too deli-
cate to tell them. Ours wouldn’t.
*j»
“J.J.A.”: Maryborough (Vic.) hels a
referendum on a free public library, and
became the first town in Victoria to turn
the idea down. The poll was hardly
declared before they staked their claim
for Victoria’s second university!
❖ *l* *X*
“J. 8.”: Blame for Sydney’s late spring
has been placed on atom-bomb tests, ram-
making tests, and the Woomera Rocket
Range, but it seems that the trustees of
the Botanical Gardens have removed
Spring and Summer from the long stairs
to the lower gardens and left only
Autumn and Winter.
* ❖
“Willpar”: In U.N. Week at a lunch-
hour service at Sydney Cenotaph, the
Army paraded, wreaths were laid, a
Federal member spoke, and flags were
lowered during the Last Post. Early that
morning a member of the organising com-
mittee had found, to his horror, that the
Union Jack was willing to go up, but
refused to come down. Imagining the
Jack flying alone at the masthead for the
Last Post, he hurried to his office and
phoned the Cenotaph custodian. No,
sorry ; it was a job for the Town Hall.
The Town Hall admitted responsibility,
but its only mobile ladder capable of
reaching the pulley-wheel was out of
town and couldn’t be brought back in
time. The committeeman threatened to
call qut the fire-brigade and mentioned
that the Town Hall’s inability to fix a
simple pulley should make front-page
News. So hundreds of citizens witnessed
a normal Last Post ceremony, ignorant
of the morning’s drama. How the flag-
pole was fixed remains a mystery. Did
anyone see the Lud Mayor extracting
splinters?
NOT DONE
“An American basketball-coach, on his way
to the Olympic Games, who claimed he had
been picked up in Martin Place, Sydney, and
robbed by thieves who drove off with his
travelling-bags, admitted to Sydney detectives
that it was ‘just a silly story.’ ”,
It would be Sydney’s shame of shames
To rob a traveller passing through:
A coach at the Olympic Games!
I’m pleased to hear it isn’t true.
To pick him up in Martin Place,
To take, his money and his clothing —
Could Sydney suffer the disgrace
Of leaving Melbourne’s hotels nothing?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THE Governor-General will greet
A the Duke of Edinburgh when he
arrives at Fairbairn R.A.A.F. station,
Canberra, on the 18th, then speed back
to Government House by a short route,
to greet his Royal Highness again when
his longer route deposits him at the
vice-regal portal a few minutes later.
What on earth would you say during
these repetitive meetings that protocol
demands simply must be included?
“Here we are again?” Well, no ; proce-
dure laid down by Princess Margaret in
Africa would seem to require “See you
later, alligator,” at the airport and some-
thing like “Welcome, chum, to Yarralum”.
at Government House.—“Canb.”
❖ ❖
“ ’Arry Stottle”: Melburnians prefer
not to dwell upon Olympic rents.
❖ *l*
“Vingter”: At Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne, when there was some heavy Naval
brass about, a steward issued from the
hallowed recesses of the Naval Board
“Yes, I know , but this time he's using a different bait.”
bearing a large silver tray laden with tea-
pot, cups and other impedimenta, just as
a cloudburst broke. He took off at a
speed which would not have disgraced a
Rugby wing-threequarter, tray at arm’s
length above his head, some 75yds.
downhill, made a right-hand turn
without decreasing speed, and sped
another 50 yds. before disappearing
into some cubby-hole or other. From
the aroma in his wake I knew that the
teapot contained good hot brew, of which
not a drop had been spilit; and nary a
bit of crockery or silverware was jetti-
soned on the voyage. I could imagine
him doing the same thing as efficiently
on a tossing deck under shellfire.
*l* ❖ ♦♦♦
“S.M.S.”: Will someone please explain
why, when I buy a train-ticket and put
my hand out for the change, the attendant
always seems to go out of his way to
avoid my hand and places the money on
the dirty counter? To a white-glove-
wearer this is most disconcerting.
{4 <{4 {4
“Miss M.”: Once I nursed a real live
gangster. He’d been shot by a fellow-
member of the underworld, and there was
a police guard at the bedside. Gravely
wounded and in great pain, he was barely
able to state that he had no idea why or
by whom he’d been shot. This was
expanded by the Sunday press into a
detailed account of the shooting, not
omitting his “beautiful, smartly-dressed
wife.” She was, too. During his con-
valescence he spoke correctly, though
very little, and quietly; no slang, no
emphasis, no emotion. wAile he was
helping us wash-up I asked, “Do you
know who shot you?” “Yes, and I’ll
fix him when I get out of here.” My
colleague, even younger and sillier than
I, asked, “What will you do?” “I’ll tie
him down on an ants’ nest.” Her reply
shook even his composure: “Oh, no,
you won’t. That would be cruel.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.M.” : Coming out of . the theatre
after “Kismet,” an unctuous matron was
decrying the film: “I was awfully dis-
appointed in it. Why, you just couldn’t
compare it with ‘A Man Called Peter’!”
But, with true feminine logic, she was
prepared to try.
*
“Ranger”: The showmen with the. fake
mermaid “Blax.” (B. 24/10/’56) com-
plains about were less enterprising than
those in charge of a church-bazaar side-
show in an English city : “See the Egret,
6d.” After taking their eyeful, patrons
would be met by: “This way to the
Egress, 3d.” Many, expecting the female
at half-price to be better value than the
male, duly handed over. The three-
penn’orth of Egress they got was out
into the street. Several opposition
preachers preached sermons about the
“swindle.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Zorok”: Reported by a Sydney
columnist that the liner Strathnaver,
which reached Sydney a week or so ago,
had among its passengers a Miss Rock
’n’ a Mrs. Roll. Looks as if the Presley
craze really has come to Australia!
*:♦ *j>
“Dave the Dude” : McGregor’s draw-
ing (B. 17/10/’56) of an embezzler con-
ferring with his lawyer reminded me of a
teller who usually “carried” a cash of
about £3OOO, and punted about half on a
very dead'cert. He staggered round to a
solicitor, who inquired, “Was that all
your cash?” “No ; there’s about the same
amount left.” “Bring it straight to my
office, and then tell the manager you have
lost all your cash on the races—and tell
him nothing more.” Suspended from duty,
the defaulter referred all questions to his
solicitor, who eventually asked, “Sup-
posing relatives could be induced to repay
ten-bob in the pound, would the bank
agree to let matters drop?” The bank
went into a huddle and took the view
“I regret to announce the death of still another of our former directors.”
that £l5OO in the hand is worth a clerk in
the clink.
♦J< »Jt
“Mullum”: I mentioned to the boss
that Y was to be naturalised that after-
noon. Y has done well, and has become
one of our good customers, so I sug-
gested that someone should represent the
firm at the ceremony. A quick check
round the office found a variety of
excuses but no one who could spare half-
an-hour at the Council Chambers, so we
compromised by writing him a letter of
congratulation. The day he received the
letter he came into the office and thanked
every one individually for their kind
thoughts ; and could not understand why
we all seemed so embarrassed.
❖ *♦* ♦♦♦
“Wandana”: After Hobart (Tas.)
University students had incurred the dis-
pleasure of the civic authorities by
programming as part of a rag the
washing and cleaning of some public
statues they made an offer to the Lord
Mayor to perform a similar service
gratuitously every year. The offer of
free, labor was received with open arms,
the authorities consenting to provide
ladders, buckets and cleaning-materials ;
and the statue of Tasmania’s early
explorer-Governor, Sir John Franklin,
has just received its honorary spit-and-
polish from the student-cleaners. *
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Buster”: The New Aussie and
daughter standing in one of Melbourne’s
busier streets were gettin'g the brush-off
as the father poked a piece of cardboard
towards passers-by. It took the tall bush-
man to realise that they weren’t begging ;
he spent half-an-hour taking them to their
terminus, marked on the piece of card.
❖ ♦♦♦ +:♦
“Bo”: A Sydneysider has repeated an
ad. in the lost-and-found column
offering a reward for the return of a
pocketbook which contained “papers and
documents which are of no use to any-
one.” Apparently he is determined not
to be robbed of the pleasure of tossing
them in his own y/astepaper-basket.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Kui”: Why is the Victorian police-
commissioner, Major-General Porter,
invariably referred to in the press as
“Mr.” Porter? A Doctor of Science,
Law, Divinity, Philosophy or anything
else is usually addressed as “Doctor”
even though he retires from his pro-
fession and takes up farming, beer-
drinking or politics. However, I don’t
insist on being addressed as Acting-Lance-
Corporal Kui.
❖ *** <*
“Aeolus”: No one not brave enough to
sponsor a saxophone through twenty
years of boarding-house existence would
be in a better position to refute adver-
tisements about making friends by making
music. Maybe they laughed when my
lips closed around the mouthpiece, but
I soon had them reduced to hysteria. I
admit that my popularity increased with
\
my technique until I had them clamoring
for more, but the ads. are silent about
that first, sudden drop, and the long
struggle back to so much as normal
esteem.
* ❖' ❖
“Apemantus”: Not all lengthy book-
titles are old-timers. As late as April,
1935, Hans Zinsser tried it with his:
RATS, LICE and HISTORY Being a
Study in Biography, which, after Twelve Pre-
liminary Chapters Indispensable for the
Preparation of the Lay Reader, Deals with
the Life History of TYPHUS FEVER Also
known, at various stages of its Adventurous
Career, as Morbus pitlicaris (Cardanus,
1545); Tabardiglio y puntcts (DeToro,
1574); Pirttas; Febris purpurea epidemica
(Coyttarus, 1578); Febris quam lenticulas
vel puncticulas vocant (Fracastorius, 1546);
Morbus hungaricus; La Pourpre; Piper-
corn; Febris petechialis vera; Febris
maligna pestilens; Febris putrida et
maligna; Typhus carcerorum; Jayl Fever;
Fievre des hopitaux; Pestis bellica; Morbus
castrensis; Famine Fever; Irish Ague;
Typhus Exanthematicus; Faulfieber;
Hauptkrankheit; Pestartige B r aune;
Exanthematisches Nervenfieber, and so
forth, and so forth.
And, after all that, the mild variety of the
illness that occurs in Australia is called
Brill’s Disease.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Doynest”: Who but an American
could have invented the term “undercat”
for the stray, unwanted feline, whose
rights to bed, board and affection are
being championedv throughout the U.S.
during National Cat Week?
“8.A.H.”: When thousands of cars
converged from all points upon the only
access-road to Fairbairn R.A.A.F,
station normally placid Canberra citi-
zens going to an Air Force display went
purple with frustration ; radiators boiled,
insults were shouted . . . The authorities
have now announced that the road will
be closed to all traffic on the day of the
Duke of Edinburgh’s arrival, a decision
applauded in a letter to a Canberra
paper:— „
What fools the traffic-authorities in our
senior cities of Sydney and Melbourne
must be, not to have thought of this simple
solution to their traffic-problems long ago.
No traffic —no problem.
tj*
“Ariadne”: It was rather astonishing
to read that at a Government House
garden-party during Princess Margaret’s
East African tour, the Princess helped
herself to a cup of tea, placed the milk
in first, added tea, then hot water, and,
finally, one spoonful of sugar. Then one
recalled that in Britain a U pass-word
is “It’s a bit MIF,” and that means “Milk
in First,” something that is in no circum-
stances done when drinking tea in U-
circles, according to Mr. Evelyn Waugh’s
“An Open Letter to the Hnble. Mrs. Peter
Rodd (Nancy Mitford) on a Very Serious
Subject.” Mr. Waugh says:
All nancies and many governesses (who
are, of course, non-CT) when pouring-out tea
put the milk in first. (It is said by tea-
fanciers to produce a richer mixture.) Sharp
.children notice that this is not normally
done in the drawing-room.
Will the action of the Princess revolu-
tionise U circles with a sharp switchover
to MIF? Or perhaps Royalty is non-U?,
THE FREAK
“I can discuss every other subject with my
wife, and even criticise her, and she will be
reasonable. But whenever I touch on the
question of her relatives in a critical way she
just sits and stares at me, preserving silence. 1
find it most disconcerting.” —Letter to Dorothy
Dix.
She’d be rather narked, at the most,
If he roared when she cindered the, roast,
That her methods were crazy,
Or she was too lazy
To bring him his tea and his toast.
He could say that her hat looked a fright,
Or her face was becoming a flight;
Wipe his shoes on the curtain —
All these would be certain
Her strong vocal chords to excite.
He could‘‘Moscow” her diamond ring,
With some “fairy” enjoy quite a fling ;
She’d not deem these treason.
The sweetest of reason
To such peccadilloes she’d bring.
Of course, she might get off her bike
And spark-off an old-fashioned yike,
With home-truths and snorting;
She’d not be unsporting
By orally staging a strike.
But when he’d refer to her Pa
As “that stupid old blank,” or her Ma
As a “bag” he could throttle
Or crown with a pottle,
She wouldn’t as much as say “Bah !”
Just sit there and stare straight at him
Unblinking, her eye rather grim.
This wanton self-muzzling
He found very puzzling,
A monstrous, unnatural whim.
Most husbands, you’d find, would declare
That with fortitude they all could bear
Wives shutting their faces,
For surely such cases
Of outbursts of silence are rare
As broadcasts of sport from the moon,
As sunrise in mid-afternoon.
But the absence of rains of
Words, this one complains of l
He suffers in silence, this goon !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Terence L.”: Pushed the microphone
at air-ace Douglas Bader as his R.A.A.F.
Dakota touched-down at Brisbane’s
Eagle Farm Airport. We had expected
the famous “Tinlegs” late that afternoon,
but it was now past 9.45 p.m. “Good
evening, sir,” I began, “we expected you
earlier . . .” “Sorry, old chap,” said
Bader, removing the sawn-off pipe from
between his lips. “Had to drop in at
Canberra to see your Prime Minister,
Mr. Menzies. Great chap. One of my
pin-up boys.”
• •
“Symonym”: Time flickers on. Mel-
bourne newspapermen who went to
Government House, before even the first
telegrams of congratulations arrived for
Sir Dallas Brooks on the extension of his
term, as Governor of Victoria, for five
years from October 19, 1957, found
the television-cameraman there already.
• •
Clive Harburg, A.B.C. sporting-editor
in Queensland, was an accountant before
he went in for commercial-radio work, at
Longreach, in 1937. After War II (he
QUEENSLAND SPORTING EDITOR
was in the R.A.A.F.) he joined the A.B.C.
as an announcer, and still makes a fair
fist of that sort of thing.
Born at Roma, educated at Brisbane
Grammar (vice-president of the Old Boys’
Association in 1953, president 1954), Clive
can claim a dinkum Queensland back-
ground. As might be expected from his
position, he has sporting tastes —he lists
his hobbies as “cricket, Rugby Union,
swimming, surfing and amateur boxing.”
President of the R.S.L. South-eastern
District for nine years, he’s a member of
the R.S.L. State Council, the War
Veterans’ Home committee, and the Can-
teens Fund Trust. A member of the Red
Cross divisional executive for the past
three years, he’s chairman of the Red
Cross Appeals committee and chairman
of the Anzac Day Combined Parade
committee.
• •
Nobody at Flemington this week is
entitled to wear his topper at a more con-
fident angle than Chester (Chetty) Mani-
fold, chairman of the V.R.C. committee,
because his family have been stout, but
not notably lucky, supporters of the Turf
for generations. The Manifolds dis-
covered Camperdown, the rich Western
District country where Sir Chester now
has many folds of the world’s best wool-
sheep. The family arrived there in 1836
(via a settlement near the Tamar and
another near Geelong); their sheep once
multiplied between Ballarat and Warr-
nambool. Unlike some of the V.R.C.
chairmen in living memory, Chester
Manifold doesn’t live in an ivory tower.
A cheerful, active chap with a dry wit,
face weathered by the sun and wind of
Camperdown, he gets around, these days
chiefly as a champion of the off-the-course
tote. He was in the Royal Field*Artillery
in the first big war, won an Assembly
seat as a Young Nat. during the depres-
sion and got an Assistant Ministerial post.
• •
Major-General William L’Estrange
Eames, who has passed on at Rose Bay,
Sydney, at 93, came to Australia in 1887
and began practising medicine at New-
castle (N.S.W.). The son of a British
Army chaplain, he was educated at Caius
College, Cambridge, and at Trinity
College, Dublin. He served in the Boer
War, won a “mention” (another in
World War I), and was present at the
capture of Pretoria. He was in England
when War I started, and the War Office
appointed him C.O. of the Lady Dudley
Volunteer Hospital, which for-a period
maintained 2000 beds. He was formerly
P.M.O. 2nd Mil. Dist., and had been a
director of the City of Newcastle Gas and
Coke Company since 1909.
• •
David Low’s autobiography, currently
running in bits and pieces in the press in
England, will be published complete in
book-form in London by Michael Joseph
on November 26. Of his famous “David,
talk to him in Welsh and pacify him
[Hughes]” cartoon he says: “I spent three
days on this drawing and when finished
it looked to me overdrawn. Too full
of lines.” He still thinks it has too many
lines in it.
There are four David Lows in London
Telephone Directory, but Low the car-
toonist, who for many years lived at
Golders Green and had a studio at the
top of Fitz John’s Avenue, Hampstead,
now lives at Melbury Court, Kensington
—a block of flats overlooking Holland
Park. After his previous “differences of
opinion”—firstly with Beaverbrook and
secondly with the editorial board of the
“Daily Herald” —he apparently enjoys
happy relations with the “Manchester
Guardian.” He gave The Bulletin’s
London representative a cordial reception
as “a voice from the past.” No, there was
no story. One just wrote an autobio-
graphy. He had been writing it for years,
and, as one journalist to another, was
“dam’ glad it was all over.”
• •
“Myall”: The Premier of Queensland
unveiled a memorial headstone to Arthur
Hoey Davis, better known to most Aus-
tralians as Steele Rudd, in Brisbane the
other day. In 1953 his unmarked grave
was located at Toowong cemetery, and
the Queensland Authors and Artists’
Association opened the fund which led
to the ceremony mentioned. The inscrip-
tion on the headstone reads:
Arthur Hoey Davis
Steele Rudd
Born Drayton, Queensland
14th November, 1868
Died Brisbane, 11th October, 1935
“The Interpreter Of Life On The Land”
Erected by Australian Citizens
Under the Auspices of the .
Queensland Authors and Artists’ Association
1956
• •
Here to cover the Olympic Games,
69-year-old Leon Vart, a Russian-born
American journalist who has seen every
Olympic Games since 1912. An old
decathlon man, he still skis for two
months every year to keep himself fit.
a • •
The man who brought water to Tingha
(N.S.W.):
The appointment of James Symes as general-
manager of Tingha Consolidated Tin Mines
was applauded in The Bulletin of 14/11/T2.
A New Zealand mining-engineer, born at Blue
Spur, three and a half miles from Lawrence,
scene of New Zealand’s biggest gold-rush, he
and his brother, Matthew, were pioneers of
hydraulic-sluicing and bucket-dredging at Castle-
maine (Vic.). A letter in the “Tingha Advocate”
(which James Symes established, and ran at a
loss, because he thought the district needed a
paper), in 1931, tells a part of his story:
“When I came to Tingha I was told that
‘Tingha was done.’ After a good look round
I felt that Tingha was not finished —that with
a water-supply she was good for another 50
years. I found a water-supply and invited the
Minister for Mines to Tingha to look over the
scheme I had in mind. The Minister came, and
after a thorough examination admitted that the
scheme was perfect, and would be of national
importance if carried out. I asked the Govern-
ment to do the work but was told it was impos-
sible because the World War had just broken
out. The Minister said, ‘We cannot do it, but
if you go on with it privately the Government
will be most sympathetic.’
“I went ahead, and for two years I tried to
get Australian capital, unsuccessfully. Every-
one said it was impossible to bring water from
Moredun Creek to Tingha. The scheme gener-
ally was looked on as the dream of a madman.
“I went on in spite of all this passive resist-
ance, and in 1916 arranged with London investors
to have the scheme inspected. The English
engineers arrived and advised their principals
to go on with the work. The London people
had an option which they could not exercise
(because of war-time restrictions) for eight
years, and during all those years of waiting I
battled on to try and keep the scheme moving,
and during those years I met more
blackmailers and crooks than I had- met
in the rest of my life. Most of them wanted
the promise of shares, otherwise they were
going to report that insufficient work had been
done to comply with my lease conditions. I
fought these jackals of society and kept them
at bay until the end of 1924, when the London
company was formed.”
The first dam and 17 miles of water-races
were built by 1926; another dam was built later. -
Tin-prices slumped and the London capital
dried-up. James Symes took over the company
and carried on. The water, of course, was
impounded for mining. But Symes provided
Tingha with water free of cost. His early dream
of another use for it, establishing a com-
munity of irrigated farms, awaits development.
He passed on recently at Tingha, at the age
of 82, surrounded by his achievements. - He
handed-over the management of Tingha
Hydraulic Tin Mines to his son James some
eight years ago, but remained keenly interested
in everything relating to the welfare of his
district.
• •
Big, snowy-haired, his power of
command in his face and bearing, Com-
mander Gordon John Branstone Crabb
(“Buster,” of coursej' goes to the new
Daring-class destroyer Voyager, in
command. Knows which lever to pull—
been in destroyers mainly, with a notable
exception. This took in two years in
cruiser Sydney, and that nerve-jumping
moment when the call came to the
turrets: “Enemy in sight!” Enemy was
the Italian Bartolomeo Colleoni, one of
Mussolini’s fastest cruisers. Her long
six-inchers cocked up to maximum eleva-
tion, Sydney took off after her, on a
chase which was to develop into the first
cruiser-to-cruiser duel of that war. Crabb
was in charge of the Australia’s two
forward turrets, and it would have been
a covey qf his shells which blew half
the runner’s bow off and dragged her
to a stop. After which noise-packed
hour or so Crabb shifted to England to
do his Long Gunnery Course. He finished
the war in destroyers in the Pacific, has
been five years a commander, and
Voyager’s not his first command.
Younger, Buster was a boxer of some
punch.
• •
“Allan B.”: Qantas’s youngest director,
Robert Law Smith (his appointment to
the board was noted B. 18/7/’56) is Aus-
tralia’s first all-weather flying farmer.
He does his own crop-spraying on his
8500-acre property near Hamilton, in
south-western Victoria, and makes fast
trips to Sydney and Melbourne —he gets
to Melbourne in one hour 10 minutes, a
trip which normally takes six hours by
road.
Has a full instrument-rating on his
licence, and is the first private pilot in
Australia authorised to fly a single-engine
aircraft at night or under instrument-
conditions. His plane is fitted with the
latest American two-way radio, of quite
long range. A solicitor before War 11, he
flew Lockheed-Hudsons and Bristol-
Beauforts during the war in the Pacific,
later commanded the transport-squadron
which pioneered the Australia-Japan
route with Dakotas.
• •
John Bailey, N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar
for 1957, is a young chap with a sense of
humor and a crop of tar-black hair.
Son of Prof. V. Bailey, Research Pro-
fessor of Physics at Sydney University,
John has had a wandering sort of tertiary
education. Left Sydney High in 1951,
did a year’s Science at Adelaide Univer-
sity, then nine months at Pennsylvania
N. S. WALES RHODES SCHOLAR
State University (“You can get degrees
for Physical Education there. I did
swimming. Could have come back with
a doctorate or something if I’d stayed
three months longer”). He enrolled at
Sydney University in 1954, as a 'second-
year Science student, and has done well
enough to collect a Rhodes Scholarship.
He’s a keen member of the University
Judo Club, and will go to Queen’s College
at Oxford.
An Adelaide “Advertiser” columnist
reports that when his turn came to speak
at a Chamber of Manufactures dinner the
other day, S.A. Leader of the Opposition
O’Halloran complained that the preceding
speaker, Premier Playford, had “stolen
his thunder.” This apparently struck
Prime Minister Menzies as amusing;
S.A. OPPOSITION-LEADER
when his turn came, he read out a piece
of verse he had scribbled:
Dear Tom. Oh! What a state' of bliss
To have opponents just like THIS.
To say exactly what you like,
And have it warmly praised by Mike.
With alternative lines:
To set up claims that make ME sick,
But be encouraged still by Mick.
Mick —or Mike —O’Halloran was
christened Michafel Raphael, and has been
a member of the A.L.P. for nearly 50
years, so he is hardly likely to be in-
dicted for heresy at this stage of the
game. He’s been in Parliament, off and
on, for nearly 40 years, and Leader of
the Opposition since 1949. He lives at
Peterborough and has been a successful
mixed farmer at Belton for many years.
• •
Throughout his business career
Reginald Ansett has had rather more
thumps, frequently from Government
officials, than kicks-along, but he has
always come back fighting; and in a
period of rather depressed company-
reports his concern, Ansett Transport
Industries, came up last week with a
record profit.
He began in that grim year, 1931, with
a £5O deposit on an old car to run pas-
sengers between Hamilton and Ballarat,
and branched-out into an air-service in
1935 —he had acquired an A-class pilot’s-
licence and a Gipsy Moth in the meantime
—when his service from Ballarat to Mel-
bourne was cancelled to help the Rail-
ways. Now Ansett’s have a five-State
airline-network, road-coaches on more
than 150 routes, 23 hotels, some Barrier
Reef islands and a bus-building factory.
He actively leads the committee which
has built-up the race-club at Momington,
the seaside town near Melbourne where
he lives, and races a number of good
jumpers.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, Lt.-Col. Gifford Hamilton
Macarthur-King, descendant of John Macarthur
and of Governor King. An original Anzac, he
received the C.M.G. for service as commander
of a howitzer battery at Cape Helles, and later
won D.S.C. in France. In World War II he,
commanded the 21st Field Artillery Regiment.
At Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital (Vic.) at
52, Air-Commodore Walter Stewart Armstrong,
C.8.E., Director of Aeronautical Inspection.
Director of Technical Services for the R.A.A.r.
during War 11, he was later A.O.C. Maintenance
Command.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 88, Very Rev.
George Miller, former Moderator of the
Presbyterian General Assembly of Maordano,
who pursued his theological studies before Knox
College was instituted, and almost to the last
pursued bis hobby as a printer, using a hand-
press at his home.
In Sydney, at 84, E. J. Kavanagh, who went
from president (and later secretary) of the
N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council to a post
in the Storey and Dooley Cabinets. He was a
member of the N.S.W. Legislative Council from
1911 to 1934, and was vice-president of the
Executive Council, Minister for Labor and
Industry, and Acting Chief Secretary. From
1937 to 1941 he was a Conciliation Com-
missioner, and was war-time Director of Labor
in the Munitions Department.
In Perth at 80, John Charles Duncan-Raine.
ex-Royal-Navy man and Old Digger, whose
war-service included the Boxer Rebellion, the
Boer War and the Kaiser’s War, in which he
served with the 13th Field Company, A.I.F.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 76, Thomas James
Farrell, father of Richard Farrell, the pianist.
Melbourne-born and a brother of John Farreu,
veteran J. C. Williamson advance-agent, IT
till retirement was with the J.C.W. Picture
Corporation, Ltd., in Wellington.


TOOLING-UP


ABORIGINALITIES
A GANG of telephone-linesmen were
working a few miles out of Stan-
thorpe (Q.), and my niece, a new migrant
from Britain, had just started work at the
local exchange. A call came through on
a public line. My niece, getting the
required number, requested the caller to
“insert your coins, please.” A male voice
answered, “Girlie, I’m five miles out in
the bush, sitting on top of a pole, and
twenty feet from the ground. And I
haven’t any pennies.” The Prime
Minister couldn’t have got a quicker con-
nection. —“Karma.”
*** - *
“Mark” : The old-timer was telling us
how he killed the dingo on his property.
“It useter get on the ridge in front of my
place and howl every night. So after tea
I got me three-oh-three and waited on
the veranda sittin’ quiet in the dark. It
wasn’t long before she started to howl.
I took careful aim ana fired. I found
her next morning, shot fair through the
heart.” I remarked that it must have
been a lucky shot. “Luck nothin’!” he
declared. “I aimed six inches below the
howl! ”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: It is not likely that the
dog-god of Moa Island, Torres Straits
(B. 10/10/’56), will ever be recovered,
since the original inhabitants of Moa
were, with the exception of a handful of
survivors who have long since become
dust, liquidated by the neighboring
islanders of Badu in the greatest of all
the sizeable massacres of the Straits. The
village now standing on the site occupied
by that of the original Moans’ settlement
is populated by natives transplanted by
“I Want one facing the engine.”
officialdom from Prince of Wales and
Hammond Islands. When I was on Badu
1 talked of the Moa massacre with old
Kokoa, the son of the chief of the raiding
Badu tribe, who rode in his father’s war-
canoe on that bloody day. I also spoke
with Namai, one of the few surviving
Moans who, as a toddler, escaped by
clinging round his mother’s ne<;k while
she swam a tidal-creek and gained the
shelter of the jungle. Both were then very
old men. I asked Namai if he knew
anything about the legendary dog-god
hidden in a cave. He said the legend was
“No, Tom, I didn't SAY anything .”
of an enormous dog with horns that had
once terrified the village. I ran that story
to earth and found that “the big dog with
horns” was a cow, the first ever seen by
the villagers. It had been brought to the
island by an early trader.
“Charles”: A professing Christian
native from Moa Island indicated to me
that not only do native taboos still obtain
(B. 10/10/’56) but that the Government of
the day, irrespective of party, is credited
with being an ally of the Divine Being.
Sea-snakes frequently appeared when the
boys were skin-diving round the pearling-
luggers, but on such occasions only some
of the boys climbed to the deck. When I
asked the reason the boss-boy said “Might
like this: might some of that boy do some
sin, like humbug a girl, and Guv’ment no
find out that thing, then God He send
snake for punishment.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Chatham Islaqds, 500
miles east of New Zealand’s Canterbury
coast, are included in the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s itinerary and are spruicing-up for
the occasion. The constable and his wife
have a busy time ahead. The policeman
is an active official, with a multiplicity of
jobs—inspector of fisheries and inspector
for the Department of Agriculture, to
name a couple. Mrs. Constable is the
official barber among a community that
extends operations to friendly islanders.
In view of the Duke’s visit she has warned
clients to start booking now.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Every year round mid-
December small flocks of lorikeets fly
over my home on the central N.S.W. coast
heading south. Sometimes they pause
to rest and feed amongst our eucalypts,
where they ’ meet the family belle, the
rainbow-lorikeet, sole local representative
of brush-tongued parrots. The little-
lorikeet, the musk- and the scaly-breasted
(blast these lifeless labels!) intermingle
amiably, but briefly, before setting forth
again for the south. These advance-
guards are followed by larger flocks
until about the middle of February, after
which I see them no more till the year’s
end. What interests me is that I never see
these parrots moving northward, though
many of them must return to the breeding-
grounds whence they came.
* * * *
“Kros”: I see from Inside the Space
Ships that the author, American George
Adamski, actually claims to have met and
spoken to “agents” from other planets.
They introduced themselves to him in
Los Angeles, he says (in what language
is not stated), and then motored him
(make of car not given either) out to
lonely country where they all boarded a
space-ship and cruised through the outer
atmosphere. Adamski had several such
trips, he says, and the crews came from
Saturn, Mars and Venus. He adds that
the space-people told him, among other
things, that there are 13 planets, including
Earth; whereas, of course, the rest of us
know of only nine—or 10, if we include
the planet-which long ago disintegrated
into the myriad Asteroids. Still, when
you fly as high and wide as Adamski,
you’re likely to see anything.
* * * *
“Palindrome”: That par. (B. 3/10/’56)
on the spelling of Pirron Yallock in Vic-
toria sent me to my letter-rack to count
the number of ways our address—Para-
parap (Vic.) —is spelt on envelopes. This
is the tally: Paratrap, Paraparat, Para-
parapa, Pararap, Paracrap,' Parapanap,
Paraparah, Parraparap, Paraparrap, Para-
parrah, Paparapap.
* * * *
“Jobber”: “Biridja” is off the track
when he says The Fish was the morning
train to Penrith (B. 10/10/’56). Sixty
years ago at least the train was made-up
at Mt. Victoria and stopped at most
stations from there to Penrith, whence it
whizzed through without a break to the
old Redfern station —that was long before
Central was thought of. I don’t remem-
ber Heron or Pyke, but I clearly recall
Bill Jordan, who was on the footplate in
my schooldays—l can see him now, head
and shoulders out of the cab, hand on the
regulator and eyes on the signals. The
points at Homebush in those days were'
not like they are today, and Jordan sent
her over them at a terrific pace. There
was a story that, to slacken him down,
he was put on the “slow line” as far as
Homebush, and from there he seemed to
open the throttle as far as it would go
and give The Fish her head. Another
story, to which I give credence, was that
Jordan’s fastest run to Penrith was 38
minutes for the 34 miles. Bill Jordan
won’t be happy unless there are engines
over the border he crossed many years
since.
* * * *
“Hi-Fy”: Nature has beaten man to
most of his inventions. The Schnorkel
breathing-tube, perfected by the Germans
during World War II, has its counterpart
in the breathing-tube of the rat-tailed
maggot, often found in liquid-manure
barrels. And consider the water-scorpion.
This terror of the goldfish-pond is hard
to distinguish from the many dead leaves
which find their way into the average
pond ; it has a rear breathing-tube up to
lin. long and can defeat its natural
enemies, the birds, by only partly sur-
facing to breathe. Its two front-legs are
effective grappling-irons with which it
holds its prey helpless, piercing the body
with its pointed beak and sucking the
blood. The life-cycle commences in the
fish-pond ; at maturity the scorp. takes
to the air; and after mating the eggs are
laid in pond or creek for the cycle to
continue.
* * * *
“Jasper”: Trial Bay jail, Kempsey
(N.S.W.), mentioned in B. 18/7/’56, was
later used as a camp for German internees
during World War I. Some of the in-
ternees were drowned while trying to
escape by sea and the remainder of the
Germans erected a granite monument as
a memorial to their dead comrades. Some
time later,. still during the war, local
inhabitants with misdirected patriotism
destroyed the monument by explosion.
* *. * *
“Bass”: Red in animals is recognised as
one of Nature’s danger-signals, and most
animals seem to accept it as such and steer
clear of the wearer. I suppose that’s a
natural evolutionary process —over the
ages the survivors of each species could
conceivably be the ones which avoided
eating red-bannered food or mixing-it
with enemies which advertised their
venomous natures. But without attribut-
ing the production of those red parts to a
voluntary effort on the wearer’s part, how
can you account for the fact that it seems
aware of their presence and effect, and
goes to a lot of trouble to flaunt them to
possible attackers? There’s a red-bellied
frog which would poison most animals
that ate it and does its best to see that such
a calamity doesn’t occur by throwing itself
on its back to show as much red as
possible. The red-back spider, too, flaunts
the danger-signal conspicuously, and not
when turning to flee —it almost poses to
show it.
* * * *
0
COME years back, when Miri oilfield
was reaching 3000 tons daily, the
Shell-Mex company was gratified by the
Admiralty decision to gazette the port as
a fleet-oiling station. The company had
chased it' for a long time, the Navy being
a bit conservative about the open road-
stead and a mile-long pipeline, on the
seabed, that came out to a buoy*
Anyway, the great inaugural day
dawned when the treaty-cruiser Kent
dropped anchor at the right spot. Neatly
uniformed Malays in the company’s
motor-boat smartly secured the ship’s
tackle to "the flexible end of the pipeline,
and within minutes it was on board and
coupled. A company executive plugged-
in to the telephone-line that was built into
the pipeline and pumping started on his
instruction.
As the tanks were reaching full the tele-
phone failed. The Navy decided, in the
circumstances, to uncouple the still-
pumping pipe and drop it overboard. But
in the flurry a ship’s securing-line did
not release, and for five-minutes hundreds
of gallons of fuel was spewed about the
lovely holystoned deck. The company
rose to the occasion and sent out two
barges of what they called “Anglican, oil,”
which sluiced the fuel-oil off the deck and
reduced the commander’s blood-pressure.
When Miri oilfield first got going, the
allocation of two acres, not far from the
river-mouth, provided the site for an
Anglican church. As the field developed,
more thamone geologist was intrigued by
a certain pattern-formation and wished to
site and exploratory drill in the church lot.
The Bishop of Borneo demurred for a
considerable time, but eventually the site
was drilled. With hundreds of surround-
ing wells producing only dark-crude, the
church lot well produced a clear kerosene-
like fluid. Hence the “Anglican oil.”
Sevenelms.
STONE AND STEEL
Basalt and jasper and andesite
Litter the sands on this dead camp-site;
The smooth ground axe and aclze lie
hidden
’Midst the grass on this broad, shell-
midden ;
Honing-stones and the sharp chert-flakes
Lie unseen ’midst the tall reed-brakes:
Simple and clear on this riverside fen
The story is writ of the Stone Age men.
Auroralike ’gainst the evening sky,
The dull red glare is flickering high
O’er the shadowed face outlined in jet
Of the giant works in silhouette.
Rustle and roar where the mills disgorge
The red ingot from the clanging forge ;
The sirens shriek and the hammers peal
The saga in sound of the age of steel.
From the stone tools of the Kamilaroi
To stainless steel and the fine alloy
Is scarcely a step in time and space
On this hunting-ground of a vanished
race;
The ages merge and their arts reveal
The contrasts pictured in stone and steel,
Where only the Hunter’s waters span
T wixt the First and Last of the crafts of
Man.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.


VUHEN I was an A.C.2 at Sydney’s
"" Bradfield Park years (and years) ago,
a minor disturbance followed the routine
“Any complaints?” from the Orderly
Officer. After the clamor had subsided
the laddie ventured that maybe we did
have something to whinge about in 13
consecutive days of “dark plum” three
times a day. We won our point, and it
says something for the ingfenuity of the
boys in the store that the mess-tables at
tea-time were resplendent with rows of
tins of a different hue and variety—“light
plum.”—“Jac.”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: I know a bricky who
wouldn’t chuckle at that woman lighting
the incinerator before her old man had
finished building it (B. 17/10/’56). He
had nearly completed a factory-sized
incinerator with a 40ft. chimney-stack
when the leading-hand lit an armful of
papers in the furnace to show the manager
how the incinerator would draw. The
bricky was working inside the combus-
tion-chamber when the smoke came
pouring in. With the spurring thought of
being cooked alive he scrambled up the
iron rungs (which are always built into
the brickwork inside a stack) and, like a
genie emerging through the smoke, draped
himself over the lip of the chimney-top.
His description—in a voice choked with
emotion and clouds of smoke —of the
idiot who had tried to roast him was in
noticeable contrast to the hurt, digni-
fied muttering of the leading-hand: “He
didn’t have to make all that fuss —the
trump might have thought I was a bit of
a dill!”
* * * *
“Swelpme”: If the society- or
Bengalese-finch is imported to Australia it
should confound those well-meaning
idealists who insist that all birds should be
freed from their aviary prisons, and who
can’t see that it is only the aviculturist
who has saved many rare birds from
extinction. To liberate the society-finch
would be comparable to dumping an
unarmed city-bred man in the jungle with-
out food —the bird has never been any-
thing but a cage-bird. It was developed
in China from several varieties of local
finch. And in that it also confounds the
diehards who maintain that hybrids can
never reproduce their species. Society-
finches are among the avian world’s most
prolific breeders.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: The wagtail figured by
Scorfield in “Cuckoo Season” (B.
17/10/’56) must have been rather more
gullible, or at least incautious, than are
most members of his species. It is true
that a specially enterprising cuckoo
sometimes gets past the wagtail’s guard,
but, in a lifetime of spying on the domes-
tic affairs of birds, I have very rarely
found a cuckoo’s eggs in the nest of the
tail-wagging flycatcher.
* * * *
“Long Tas.”: What’s wrong with ripe
plums for dessert (B. 3/10/’56)? This is
how I serve them: Take large, ripe blue-
plums ; split and stone them and arrange
in dish with cut sides up; sprinkle with
sugar and desiccated coconut and allow
to stand for an hour or so ; then decorate
with whipped-cream. It’s a dish for an
epicure. I agree that strawberries are
rather overrated, but they’re pleasant
enough when picked and eaten fresh from
the garden—if you can beat the birds,
hens and grandchildren to them.
*i* * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Describing the cap-
ture of an echidna, or spiny ant-eater, a
Perth paper called it a “porcupine”—
a name that naturalists have been trying
to eliminate from the lists of Australian
fauna. There are no porcupines in Aus-
tralia, and the echidna isn’t even remotely
related to the foreign species. It’s the
nearest living relative to the platypus, and
it’s just another example of the marvel-
lous way in which Nature has pursued
parallel paths among totally different
groups of animals in different parts of
the globe. Just as the marsupials re-
tain the counterparts of most forms of
mammals in the Old World, from grass-
eaters to carnivores and from burrowers
to tree-climbers, so an Australian animal
has developed protective spines vaguely
similar to those of the porcupine. But
the echidna is the greater curiosity of the
two. The female lays one egg to a clutch
and carries it in a pouch that conveniently
develops in a fold in her skin at the appro-
priate time. There the egg is hatched, and
there the young is carried and suckled
until his spines are ready to grow, when
he’s promptly evicted and sheltered in a
cosy spot under a bush. Mother returns
to feed it until' it’s equipped with arma-
ment of its own, after which it leaves
home and looks around for an ant-nest.
* * * *
“Dolphin”: It was my duty-night, so
I went over the fence of the naval
barracks and headed for South Brisbane.
I always went there when a.-w.-l.
Officers kept away. In a hamburger-
joint a negro sailor from the U.S. didn’t
like my scrutiny, and said so. I replied
in good lower-deck terms. Feelings ran
high. I went outside waiting to box-on
with the negro if he came out. An abo.
spoke to me: “Don’t you worry, boss.
If them black Yankee niggers turn it on
me an’ Alfie’ll look after you. Show ’im
what you got, Alfie.” Alfie fumbled
under his shabby coat and produced the
ugliest-looking kitchen carving-knife I
ever did see. I decided to leave. After
all, I was a.-w.-1., and that’s a bad time
to be in brawls.
* * * *
“Buster”: Have just had a classical
example of the reflexes of a whippet. He
was nosing around the kitchen when the
tender extremity of his pointed face
sprung a mouse-trap. It was a straight
vertical leap of about 3ft. But what hurt
him more than the trap was my involun-
tary laugh.
* * * *
“R.J.T.” : Being one of the last of the
Reverend Joseph Campbell’s pupils at St.
Nicholas College, Randwick (N.S.W.), I
am interested in the statements of
“Agricola” (B. 26/9/’56) and “Curio” (B.
17/10/’56) about the worthlessness of
uranium, particularly “Curio’s” reference
to Campbell’s Simple Tests for
Minerals. The date given for this pub-
lication by Angus and Robertson is 1933,
but the edition I have was published, also
by Angus and Robertson, in 1898. I can
only imagine the 1933 one to be a later
edition. The information in the earlier
one agrees with the 1933 edition. In my
opinion the Reverend Joseph Campbell
was one of the leading geologists of the
time.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Talking about strange
funerals, a Bathurst (N.S.W.) man spoke
of a two-up player; before he died he
asked a mate if he would get his kip and
a couple of pennies and, as his coffin
was being lowered into the grave, toss
the pennies in the air and let them fall
“Just imagine—the correct answer gets you a holiday in Honolulu.”
on his coffin. “If they fall with two heads
U P I reckon I’ll get to Heaven all right,”
h e said. The mate carried out his wishes,
an d a^ter glancing into the open grave he
called out, “Two heads!”
* * *
“Harbel”: My mate killed a sft. 6in.
red-bellied black-snake by the roadside
and thought of taking the carcass home
to a cobber who wanted a skin to make
a belt. He immediately struck opposition
from his wife—if he put that repulsive
thing in the car she was getting out. With
little hope of delivering the pelt in reason-
able condition he tied Joe to the back
bumper-bar. A snake’s skin is very thin,
but, although it was dragged over 20 miles
of rough, gravelly roads, that pelt tanned-
up without a blemish. The reason?
Obviously the scales. Come to think of
it, that’s probably why Nature put ’em
there.
ORCHARD FRUIT
I will plant a plum-tree,
An apple, and a pear,
With oranges for golden fruit
And stars for morning air;
Then in the shadowed thickets
Of blackberry and rose
The nesting birds will sing their joy
Where cold, hill water flows;
And when we shake down almonds
On golden days and long
We’ll gather fruit we never missed
In sweet bird-song.
s.a.
IRENE GOUGH.
"SCOTTY THE WRINKLER"
THE other day a young man called
at The Bulletin office and presented
an unusual creased, tattered and yellowed
publication of four pages within a curious
title-cover (“Multiplied by W. H.
Williams, ye old Typographer, Mel-
bourne”), which read: “The Swag: The
Unofficial Flute of the Sundowners and
Other Colonial Vagrants ; with which is
enfurcated the Bush Marconi and the
Whaler’s Telegraph, by Scotty the
Wrinkler.”
“Who,” asked the visitor, “was ‘Scotty
the Wrinkler’?”
Sixty years ago and more almost every
Bulletin reader was familiar with the
writings of “Scotty the Wrinkler,” even
though they may not have known the
real name of the writer who wrote under
that nom-de-plume on bush-subjects even
before there was an Aboriginalities
page.
That fixture made its debut as a three-
column feature on April 21, 1888, when
“Scotty” was represented by two signed
paragraphs. Apart from one by another
contributor, “Hiram Abiff,” “Scotty’s”
were the only pars that were signed in
the three columns. “Aboriginalities”
continued a few years, was dropped, and
returned again on December 18, 1897,
since when it has been a regular feature.
“Scotty” wrote regularly for the page
until he died.
“Scotty the Wrinkler” was an educated,
adventurous battler, born in Scotland,
named Phil Mowbray, who had had a
varied career before coming to these
parts. An English Army-officer, he had
seen service in India, Abyssinia and else-
where as an artilleryman, engineer and
surveyor. . He had been a railwayfnan in
Florida, deckhand on the Mississippi,
had worked in U.S. lighthouses and had
had something to do with the Glasgow
tramways.
Coming to Australia, he tried to enlist
in the N.S.W. permanent artillery, and
he attributed his rejection to being
recognised by a battery commander. But
he was always careful to admit that he
wore silk socks and was sprung at the
time, and that might have had something
to do with it.
He took to the bush and became miner,
schoolmaster, drover, horsebreaker,
shearer’s - cook, rouseabout, tutor,
journalist on a country paper, gardener,
sawmill-agent and finally a Murrum-
bidgee whaler and self-appointed spokes-
man for those picturesque, if indolent,
characters.
“Out West, along the Darling, every
other Scotsman one meets claims to be
‘Scotty the Wrinkler’ of The Bulletin,”
said Henry Lawson, who wrote a moving
poem, “The Passing of Scotty,V when the
old chap died at Narrandera (N.S.W.) in
1903.
A. G. Leslie (“Topee”), another
Bulletin old-timer, who had knocked
about the bush, once said: “Probably
no other Bulletin contributor has been
so much impersonated as ‘Scotty the
Wrinkler.’ Speaking for The Riverina
alone, I doubt if there was a single shed
where he had not cooked, while one
rarely met a drover for whom, at some
time or other, he had not ‘rolled the
ashman.’ I referred to this when I met
him at Boat Harbor (N.S.W.) shortly
before-his death ; he replied mournfully
that if the future held all the drinks
blasphemers had collected in his name he
would view it with confidence.”
Photographs taken in the ’nineties
show him as a mildly benevolent old
gentleman wearing a tam-o’-shanter, and,
though he wrote mostly in a whimsical
vein, he could be extremely caustic at
times.
As a raconteur the “Wrinkler” had
few equals, and for hours by the campfire
he would spin yarns drawn from many
phases of life in every continent. Once,
remarking on his possession of a marvel-
lous memory, he replied: “It’s my curse ;
I wish I could forget.” From this and
other remarks those who knew him were
inclined to think that “Scotty,” despite
his panegyrics on the bush and its
freedom, often reflected with sadness on
a lost career.
His peculiar pen-name came about
thus: He bought the copyright of it
from an old Scots boundary-rider on
the Murrumbidgee who posed as “an
encyclopaedia of wrinkles.” The price
was a bottle of whisky and a fishing-rod.
About the beginning of the century
“Scotty” appeared at the Australian
Native Association’s fete and bazaar at
the Melbourne Exhibition outside a
whaler’s tent, cooking and selling
damper, brewing and handing out panni-
kins of billy-tea and discoursing in wild
and woolly bush-language on things in
general and the grievances of whalers
in particular.
“The Swag: The Unofficial Flute of
the Sundowners, etc., etc.,” was designed
as an appeal to Lord Hopetoun, our first
Governor-General, to use his influence
in obtaining a better deal for swagmen,
sundowners, whalers and suchlike gentle-
men of the dusty tracks and outback
river-banks.
“Scotty” was also very concerned that
the whalers and their friends should be
officially recognised and given represen-
tation at the various, functions in con-
nection with the inauguration of the
Commonwealth by the then Duke of
York in Melbourne on January 1, 1901.
“The Swag” also contains an interest-
ing essay by “Scotty” on the subtle shades
of meaning between the 'different terms
used for bush wanderers and itinerants.
“The Swag”—which, by the way, is
incorrectly listed in Macartney’s Aus-
tralian Literature as a work of fiction —
is a very rare and curious item. Only
150 copies were printed, and there must
be only a fortunate few who own one
today.
FITZ.


m
mmm.
Ns
rj
V-rrrS!
?D>-
a
K 7
f M
COVE"
3
C 3
U
o
C<
3^
m
8
Gjtt
EN
'/m
4AIJJ.
(*qQQ>
9 o
<*''3k
>QO
IQ}
®
9
■
3&<*
LkTI
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pin-sued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For , after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure —when only the best will do?
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson’s Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
da
rr amointmimt
IBM MAJIITY THi OUlf*
•BNSOM 4 Hf DCSS LTD
Benson and Hedges
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
RIVERDELL FLATS
Old Burleigh Road,
BROAD BEACH,
Surfer’s Paradise, Q’land.
NEW ULTRA MODERN FUR-
NISHED FLATS TO LET, for
long or short periods. Every
Comfort, including Refrigeration,
Hot and Cold Water, Wall-to-
Wall Carpets and Inner-spring
Mattresses throughout. Close °
Surf (patrolled beach). Near
Lennon’s New Hotel. For i**
holiday accommodation, wrl e
now to Resident Proprietors.
Business. Rollery, ETC
Suez and Shares
AUSTRALIAN sharemarkets
were weaker following the
Anglo-French military activity
in the Middle East, but up to the
weekend there had been no
spectacular decline that could
be attributed to the international
situation. Some mining stocks
had already eased because
weakening tendencies in metal
prices overseas ; but while the
general trend in industrials was
downward, it was not a very
decided trend.
It is hard to say what course
events in the Middle East will
take, and it is fervently to be
hoped that stability will soon be
brought to that region of age-old
hatreds ; but from the Australian
investor’s point of view ordinary
shares in well - established
companies should remain a
sounder repository for savings
than most other types of invest-
ment during a period of military
activity.
It is indeed to be hoped that
any military activity which the
British and French have found
it necessary to take will be
expeditious and successful, and
that Australia will be saved the
need to make any contribution.
But for the information of
nervous investors, particularly
aged people, widows, etc., it may
be mentioned that the traditional
pattern of Stock Exchange
behavior in times of hostilities
is for share-prices to weaken
and then to rise under the
stimulus of war-time ( inflation.
All will pray that Australia may
be spared both war and inflation.
But there seems to be no good
reason why nervous people
should sacrifice their shares if
the sharemarket should take a
temporarily disconcerting down-
ward dip.
Milk-bar Money
T\ESPITE the additional lustre
he earned overseas, both as
a diplomat and economist, Sir
Douglas Copland received a
rather cold welcome-home in
Melbourne, Collins-street share-
brokers recalling dourly his
“milk-bar economy” speech.
“The damage which, as a
result of that ill-conceived
slogan, Australia has suffered in
the estimation of overseas
investors could be best measured
by the millions of pounds of
investment capital which it has
caused to be diverted into the
industries of other countries.
Even the author would probably
be happy now to renounce his
authorship,” said one.
Copland’s “milk-bar” speech
was delivered, as Vice-Chancellor
of the National University, to
the Canberra branch of the
Economic Society on April 3,
1948:
Essential production has shown
poor response since the war, and
the output of goods has not expanded
with the needs of the community.
There is no overall plan in Australia,
and activities are spread over too
wide an area.
Australia is indulging in unbalanced
development which will affect pros-
perity within 10 to 20 years. The
post-war economy is of the milk-bar
variety, with employment and pro-
duction in the less essential industries.
On his return, in a Melbourne
interview:
The only economic policy for Aus-
tralia is to continue developing at a
rate as great as that of any other
country in the Western world.
A large number of influential
people have found themselves in
agreement with W. S. Robinson,
who asked bluntly what was the
objection to having money in
your pocket and getting ahe^d.
Whatever the effect Copland’s
“milk-bar” simile may have had
on the flow of overseas money
into Australia, it was a pithy and
fairly accurate summing-up of
the Australian economy at the
time. Then, and since then, we
have had an excess of consumer-
demand and at times a palpable
lack of indigenous capital.
An inflow of overseas capital
might have helped to rectify this
position, but only in the past
few years has the availability of
capital-goods from overseas
been reasonably easy. If we had
borrowed substantially before
1951 it is more than likely that
such borrowing would have
mostly stimulated the import of
consumer-goods at increasing
prices. Up to 1951 there was an
abundance of overseas money
available to Australia anyway.
It is one thing to have progress
with inflation. It is another to
have inflation without progress.
Australia may be able to afford
the first type of inflation. It
cannot afford the second.
Bearing Service (Holdings)
Ball-bearings and roiier-
bearings are obviously big
business in an economy that is
turning more and more to the
assembly or manufacture of its
own motor-vehicles, not to men-
tion many other engineering
activities away from automotive.
Bearing Service (Holdings)
controls Bearing Service Co. of
Aust. in Melbourne, Bearing
Service Co., Ball Bearings Pty.
and William Easy Pty. (all of
Sydney), as well as Bearing Ser-
vice Co. of Aust. Pty. in Bris-
bane, Bearing Service Co. of
Aust. Pty. (Adelaide) and Bear-
ing Service Co. of Aust. Pty.
(Perth). The co. also has a
large interest (393,428 ss. shares
in 1955) in Duncan Industries,
Ltd., listed on Adelaide ’Change.
At June 30, 1955, their market-
“Stick ’em up!”
“Stick 'em up!”
value was £195,000 ; a year later
the figure was £157,299.
The present parent co. was
formed in Melbourne in April,
1950, to acquire control of most
of the interests previously men-
tioned. Though, at the public
float, the new valuation placed
on the undertaking was nearly
six times the paid-up value of
the old shares, and excess of
paid-up capital over net assets
on consolidation was £392,637,
making net tangible assets ss. Id.
per 10s. share, previous earning-
power showed-up well in rela-
tion to the enlarged capital, and
subsequent earnings have been
much better still.
Almost all the supplies which
the co.’s group of subsidiaries
deal in are imported, the princi-
pal sources being Hoffman Mfg.
Co., Ltd., British Timken, Ltd.,
and Fischer Bearings Co., Ltd. —
all of England. Additional
supplies come from other
manufacturers in England,
U.S.A. and Switzerland.
The parent has a 50 p.c.
interest (£30,000) also in Charles
Weston of Australia Pty., Ltd.,
oil-seal manufacturers, Sydney,
which is producing but not yet
at a profit. Its products are
largely for the automotive
industry and are distributed by
the group.
From 1953 to 1955 paid
capital of the parent co. was
unchanged at £919,657. During
the past term a one-for-four
bonus-issue was made out of
assets-revaluation reserve, tak-
ing capital up to £1,149,571. At
the same time a surplus of
£246,161 remained in assets-
revaluation reserve.
The 1955-56 trading-year was
one of record turnover in every
State, and the co. further con-
solidated its position as being
the major Australian supplier of
ball- and roller-bearings. After
providing £14,988 of deprecia-
tion, £272,600 for taxation (up
t 13,700), consolidated net profit
was £414,027, compared with
£375,947 in the preceding year.
On the increased capital the
profit represented 18 p.c., and
the 15 p.c. div. was repeated
(including a full year’s distribu-
tion on the bonus shares).
Great financial consolidation
has occurred over the past five
years, and the 10s. shares are
now fully backed by asset-values.
The sharemarket, in paying 265.
for the shares, accepts a yield
of 5| p.c., with the prospects
that go hand-in-hand with the
distributor of essential products
of this kind.
Money in Melbourne
ONE of the financial surprises
of the year was the full sub-
scription in four days of
£1,500,000 8 per cent, registered
mortgage-debentures offered by
Waltons-Sears, Ltd. The same
underwriters, J. B. Were and Son,
also opened and closed within
10 minutes the next day a 7 p.c.
(participating, to 9 p.c.) £150,000
unsecured-note issue in H. B.
Selby Australia, Ltd.
Melbourne brokers are not
grizzling about tight money.
They report there are keen
buyers with ample funds avail-
able for good stocks when they
o ff er anything above 7 p.c., but
tbe near-gilt-edged market is
a iii ng; the Electricity Commis-
sion £3Tmillion loan was only
half-subscribed,
Th link with
e f .
Waltons-Sears was, of course,
reassuring for the debenture-
buyers ; savings-bank depositors
have record funds to buy in this
market; the insurance companies
and trustees of company provi-
dent funds are also interested ;
and) above all, the higher price
of wo6l at the Melbourne sales
has given investment a kick-on.
-
. . .
Davis Gelatine
-VTOTWITHSTANDING a set-
back in profit-earning last
y ea r (which may be explained at
the annual meeting on Nov. 8),
the shareS in Davis Gelatine
seem set to establish themselves
as a key stock on Australian
, ch The co. dominates
.. . .
the gelatine industry 1 - ,
New Zealand and South Afric ,
it has a major share in the glue
industry in those countries, and
it has distribution in the U.K.
and Canada as well. Products
other than edible, technical and
vegetable gelatine and'--glue are
adhesives, oil, tallow, bone-flour,
diatomaceous-earth filter - aids
and fertilise rs.
,
Tbe £1 shares, which were
fisted only last year after a public
placement, have befcn well
supported ever since, and at
present are priced at 30s. 6d. to
give a yield of 5.2 p.c. on an
g p . c . div. basis,
The prospectus spoke of a
? div and it was stated else-
where the co had over the
years been bnilt-up on ploughed-
•>
back profits, and that the same
cautious policy would be
followed in the future. Earmngs
for 1954-55 were equal to 20 p.c.
on the public co.’s capital. Last
term, after setting aside £176,385
f or taxation (down £24,874), net
profit was £57,067 lower at
£2 42 642 and equal to 16.2 p.c.
Qn ca ital The 8 pc . div. paid
is tax-free. Ike
y f , com _
Ranees of th e c ° ; are com
Stable on the liquid and
on old wri ten-down book-values
net tangibles are equal.to h 29-
Per £1 share The stock should
be worth holdm S-


Meetings
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COM-
PANY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SIXTY-NINTH
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
OF SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, on
TUESDAY, 13th NOVEMBER, 1950,
at 2,15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1956.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Dr. George
Moncrieff Barron and Mr. Alfred Edward
Bond retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To elect a Director in place of Mr.
Charles Herbert Locke (appointed to fill
the vacancy caused by the death of the
late Mr. Francis Harmsworth Way), who
offers himself for re-election (in terms of
Article 81).
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. Yarwood, Vane &
Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), the
retiring Auditors, are eligible for re-
appointment and offer themselves accord-
ingly.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW; Manager.
31st October, 1956.
LET
TLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
as
Established I Sub in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and. has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(.England)
tfJS.W. Branch:
S Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instruments
♦or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
I-# l
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
JACK
A Safe in your House ...
would be out of place. You can have
even better security and convenience with
a Bank of New South Wales cheque
account, for then your money is safe in
the bank, yet readily available when you
want it.
The safe, simple, and efficient way of
handling money is to pay by cheque.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES *
Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
•FIRST AND LARGEST TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
,:f V - .
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5630C
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Your OWN Grain Storage
E.YSAGHT
Grain Silos
nm
AND AUGERS
SILOS
n 4 X
'"■ ■■ *' i - :
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
• Easily erected permanent
© Rodent and weatherproof
• Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
# Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
#Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
# Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
9 Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
augers- Suitable
types of Augers to
meet all needs are
available at attractive
prices.
WRITE for further in -
formatin and Agents'
Names to Dept. No. B
n
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia! Pty. Ltd, In
all Capital Cities.
SSAY/56
Lendan airmail
From Herbert Holman
T'HANKS to an array of cir-
cumstances independent of
its record and immediate vicissi-
tudes, the Conservative party
has emerged from the Llandudno
conference a good deal firmer
and more secure than was ever
expected. A not inconsiderable
factor was the very poor showing
and headstrong emotionalism of
the Socialists at Blackpool the
week before. For the Labor
programme is empty of anything
in the way of positive thinking
and more than usually inhibited
by doctrinal fixations. This
vacuum enabled the re-emergent
Mr. Butler to make much of
the opportunity giver\ him. And,
of course, Mr. Bevan ascendant
is worth countless potential votes.
But what really clinched the
affair, stilling the middle-class
revolt and reaffirming the unity,
was the adroitness of the
“platform.” In terms of
party management, the con-
ference was a triumph for the
new chairman, Mr. Oliver
Poole. He had previously won
over the best orators, leaving the
delegates, few of whom were
practised speakers, diffident and
inarticulate. After one delegate,
who insisted on expressing him-
self in unacceptable terms about
Suez, had been booed, and
another, the champion of the
Middle Class Alliance, had failed
to get called to the platform, it
was not surprising that mal-
contents on the “floor” became
timid.
The organisers cleverly evaded
the more controversial issues
(the Tonbridge and Torquay by-
elections were not even men-
tioned) and let the delegates
work-off their pent-up feelings
over flogging and capital
punishment—hardly enlightened
debate.
There can be no two minds
about the party organisation. It
is efficient and expansive.
Whereas delegates to the Labor
conference were mainly middle-
aged men, those to the other
were mixed and of a compara-
tively low average age. More-
over, the Young Conservatives
(i.e., under 30) are active and
go-ahead, continually seeking
new members and striving to
detain them by a lively pro-
gramme of social events, from
lectures (mainly non-political)
to jam-sessions. The Central
Office nurtures these young
people most assiduously and,
this year, took pains to ensure
their representation at the con-
ference, with the result that one
in four of the delegates was under
thirty.
As if to belie all rumors, the
Prime Minister, entirely on his
own showing, inspired the mass-
rally to rousing allegiance.
Triple Plan
One salutary aspect to be
brought to light at this con-
ference was that, if modern
issues are to be faced, assessed
and dealt with, only the Con-
servatives are capable of doing
so. Freedom from the class-
prejudices of ’ their opponents is
sufficient in itself to give them
the initiative. Much interest,
therefore, lies in the three new
projects mooted at Llandudno.
Mr. Duncan Sandy.s very
bravely announced his intention
to deal with the Rent Restriction
Acts, which have been nobody’s
baby for some 40 years. He will
be a steadfast and able man
indeed if he grasps this nettle
firmly. The proposed solution
appears to be “progressive”
abolition of rent-control, starting
first with the five-million owner-
occupied houses, decontrolling
others as they fall vacant and
fixing higher rent-ceilings where
homes remain under control.
Opposition, both from the
Socialists and from the tenants
concerned, can only be fierce and
unremitting. Yet here is a
problem which, for social and
economic reasons, must be
tackled.
Mr. lan MacLeod had con-
structive things to say about the
Industrial Charter and its
proposed extension—a_ contract
of service, not only for high-ups
but also for the rank-and-file.
This, of course, is a serious and
well - intentioned * attempt to
replace “paper” wage-increases
by, in the long run, more sub-
stantial “fringe” benefits. The
trade-unions, accustomed to the
easier course, are not interested,
and cannot be expected to
co-operate. Once again the
initiative rests with a Govern-
ment which will be pilloried as
“reactionary” while it seeks a
practical solution for the general
good.
The Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer introduced his new
policy—the European Free Trade
Area. Here there was some
apprehension. For such an
innovation would seem to run
contrary to Conservative ideas
and particularly to the convic-
tions of those who are Common-
wealth-minded. But Mr. Mac-
millan, always better at the
statement of policy than at its
analysis, was complacent and
uncommunicative.
Layman at Large
Bernard Shaw never forgave
the circumstances of his early
life which denied him his
ambition —to learn to play the
oboe. If the virtues of sincerity
and humility were not con-
spicuous in his public character,
at least his love of music came
very near to devotion. He is
probably the only dramatist who
has professed to using musical
construction in his plays, shaping,
for example, the first act in
sonata 'form, the second as a
theme with variations and the
third as a rondo.
With this analogy in mind,
John Clements’s revival of
“The Doctor’s Dilemma” at the
Saville Theatre suggests a
toccata of incredible virtuosity,
both in concept and in perform-
ance.
The first act is the best, yet no
development occurs until nearly
the end; the comedy, still
exhilarating, depends upon
poking fun at the medical pro-
fession and its four most dis-
similar big-wigs. The fourth act,
still in flippant mood, includes
a death scene of unconscionable
length and agony; and, no
sooner has the unprincipled
consumptive, Dubedat, expired
than a remark from one of the.
consultants is, deliberately, so
incongruously callous as to
provoke guffaws; then another
consultant proceeds to recite
Shakspeare, facetiously mixing-
up his quotations. Earlier,
Shaw has brought himself into
the banter (Dubedat: “I don’t
believe in morality. I’m a disciple
of Bernard Shaw.”) One passage
is near-blasphemous. In the last
act, the author builds up suspense
(whom did the widow marry?)
and then leaves the audience„,in
the air. And the dilemma —if
a doctor has to choose between
two patients, which shall he
save, the worthy or the worth-
less? —is so contrived as to be
purely academic, a mere excuse
for Shavianistics.
Yet, for all these qualifications
and despite its preoccupation
with disease and remedy (some-
times nothing but inverted
quackery), the play is most amus-
ing and wears extremely well
after 50 years. Julian Amyes’s
production, by under-accenting
the heart-throb, shrewdly avoids
bathos. Lewis Casson (who
appeared in the original produc-
tion) is well in character as Sir
Patrick Cullen. Delightfully so is
Henry Hewitt as Dr. Blenkin-
sop. Michael Hordern’s “8.8.,”
though superb for virtuosity and
panache, is not: he is far too
lovable for an egregious popin-
jay, for a colossal humbug. Ann
Todd makes what she can of
Jennifer Dubedat, falling rather
short of the author’s quite
extravagant demands. The tech-
nical requirements of her stage-
husband leave Paul Daneman
untroubled, but his natural
elegance and the sourness of his
role are mutually contradictory.
Trouble Without Peer
“Plaintiff in a Pretty Hat”
(Duchess Theatre) is as incon-
sequential as an after-dinner
speech, which it most nearly
resembles, particularly whep
Hugh Williams (co-author, with
his wife) is holding merrily forth.
As a peer who rescues his son,
in first-sighted love with a Lady,
from a journalist (a “little ruth-
less Australian ruffian”) he
finally comes out on top by
taming the minx and more.
This slight, passably amusing
comedy of dilly-dalliance is
Lonsdale-and-water, with the
brandy-glass abnormally large
for its contents. The best
features are Hugh Williams’s
devastating timing of his own
wisecracks and Andree Melly’s
range of mood as the mercenary
plaintiff. She is not a minx
really but a high-spirited go-
getter of extreme sophistication.
There is even a simulation, now
and then, of a Rose Bay accent.


f
V g Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.
& invites you to discuss
this subject.
DIRECTORS:-
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
Sir EDWARD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
C XECUTORS and Trustees are sometimes subjected to criticism because they are merely
*—' carrying out the terms of a Will which is sadly out of date* or which does not
correctly express a Testator’s wishes.
Is your Will up to date? Perhaps you would like to discuss its terms with us. We
would be glad to arrange an appointment for the purpose. Thereafter your Solicitor
can do what is necessary towards any required alteration.
Full information on this subject will be freely given on application. Why not telephone
B 0377 and make an appointment for the purpose. A Senior Officer will always be avail-
able to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,” be posted free to you.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tam worth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
.Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McEARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Containers, Ltd.
A LREADY the largest can-manufac-
turer in the Commonwealth, Con-
tainers is still expanding, having recently
completed the issue of 542,931 £1 ords.
in exchange for the £401,897 paid capital
of Chas. Steele and Co. (Holdings), Ltd.,
flexible-package manufacturers.
Formed in 1949 as a holding co. for
eight subsidiaries, Containers, Ltd., took-
over the trading and manufacturing acti-
vities of its wholly-owned cos. in 1953.,
The original group included Union Can
Co., Southern Can Co., J. T. Picken and
Sons, Dominion Can Co., and Fibre Can
Co.; among later additions were James
Marsh and Sons, T. Dawson and Sons,
and Paul Bruce and Co. With factories
in all States except Queensland and the
N.T., the co. turns-out an extensive range
of tinplate and fibre cans, containers,
screw-caps, closures, cardboard-boxes and
flexible packaging materials as well
as carrying-out tin-printing and lacquer-
ing and label-printing.
Paid capital has more than doubled
since 1952, 2,028,195 f.-p. £1 shares being
issued in the term completed last June,
during which shareholders were offered
1,034,275 ords. on the basis of three for
every 10 ords. or one for every five prefs.
A further £500,000 came from the issue
of p.c. prefs. redeemable between 1971
and a.d. 2000 at a 2s. 6d. premium. The
completion of the Chas. Steele purchase
early in the current term lifted total paid
capital to £5,774,789, including £750,000
in 5 p.c. prefs.
Strong competition was experienced
during the year ended June 30 last, floods
in eastern and southern States reducing
the quantity of fruit and vegetables avail-
able for canning, while higher taxation
and increased labor and raw-material
costs made trading less profitable. After
providing £441,897 (up £86,278) for taxa-
tion," £221,201 (up £71,490) for deprecia-
tion, and meeting certain non-recurring
expenses connected with the transfer to
new premises of a large operating division,
net profit fell by £21,604 to £517,100:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends x To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
5 p.c. 7 p.c.
&&£»£/£>
1952.. 386,923 37,500 128,066 221,357 315,554
Tax overprovided, £65,261 .. . . 380,815
Profit sale assets, £l7 .. .. .. 380,832
Share-premiums, £114,344 . . . . 495,176
Share-issue expenses, £27,280 .. 467,896
Net reduction reserves, £268 .. 467,628
6 p.c.
1953.. 213,565 37,500 158,003 23,062' 490,690
Tax overprovided, £9552 ~ .. 500,242
Loss sale assets, £lB5B . . . . 498,884
Goodwill written-off, £14,019.. .. 484,865
7i p.c.
1954.. 457,766 37,500 219,568 200,698 686,663
Tax overprovided, £B2B .. . . 686,391
Profit sale assets, £1245 . . . . 687,636
Goodwill written-off, £4600 .. .. 683,036
8 p.c.
1955.. 638,704 37,500 235,806 265,398 948,434
Profit sale assets, £5682 ~ .. 954,116
Tax overprovided, £12,403 .. .. 966,519
Share premiums, £6BB .. .. .. 967,207
Unexplained reduction, £57 .. .. 967,150
Share issue expenses, £43,686 .. 923,464
Pre-acquisition profits not available for
distribution, £36,181 .. .. 887,283
5& Ci p.c. 8 p.c.
1956 f. 517,100 47,952 298,896 170,252 1,057,535
* Subject to intangibles, £138,190 at 30/6/’56.
t After deducting pre-acquisition divs. and outside
shareholders’ interest.
The £517,100 includes £36,181 of “pre-
acquisition profits not available for
distribution,” and after covering the pref.
div. represented 12.5 p.c. on average ord.
capital, compared with 17, 14.3, 6.9, 19.1,
and 13.2 p.c. back to 1951. The 8 p.c.
ord. div. rate introduced in the previous
term was repeated, and this rate for a
full year on the larger capital would,
with the pref. divs., call for £444,476 or
£72,624 less than the term’s earnings.
A large plant was opened in Melbourne
during the year, and new premises were
acquired in Sydney. Comparative
balance-sheets reflect the growth of the
co., the latest figures (including the
accounts of Chas. Steele & Co.) showing
an increase of £1,140,027 in the book-
value (mainly cost) of fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £1,250,000
Ord 2,927,583 2,947,588 4,475,778
Reserves .. .. 685,563 948,434 1,057,535
Outside interests . . 29,132 10,529 74,044
Mortgage . . .. 55,183
Overdraft . , . . 240,795 1,999,919 1,107,270
Creditors .. .. 557,679 651,030 1,001,895
Tax provision . . 308,032 357,679 442,270
Final divs. . . . 135,853 136,653 210,194
£5,634,637 £7,801,827 £9,674,169
Land, buildings .. 1,075,642 1,369,604 1,838,757
Plant, machinery.. 1,206,214 1,465,423 2,136,297
Investments . . 4,399 27,501 54,846
Stocks . . . . 2,369,877 3,661,210 4,168,899
Debtors .. .. 800,350 1,089,716 1,307,378
Cash, etc 19,376 34,194 29,802
Intangibles .. 168,779 154,179 138,190
£5,634,637 £7,801,827 £9,674,169
Proceeds from the share-issues have
enabled a reduction of £892,649 in the
overdraft and the financing of the heavier
stocks (up £507,689) resulting from the
slower rate of turnover. These move-
ments, with an increase of £350,865 in
creditors and £217,662 in debtors, left
working-capital £1,109,311 higher at
£2,744,450. Outside interests include
shareholders in Chas. Steele and Co. who
had not accepted Container’s offer at
balance-date, and their subsequent
acceptance has considerably reduced the
minority interest.
Recent increases in the cost of labor
and materials have been largely absorbed
by the co., but the directors consider that
increased selling-prices are “inescapable”
in the current term. Some easing of the
cost problem is hoped for when B.H.P.
commences production of tinplate at Pt.
Kembla in 1957, although local produc-
tion will be insufficient to meet the Aus-
tralian demand.
Although the quantity of goods avail-
able for canning is dependent on seasonal
conditions, the needs of a growing popu-
lation and.the drive to increase exports
of tinned foods suggest a growing demand
for the co.’s products.
Both classes of pref. shares rank equally
for return of capital, and have a net
tangible backing of £5 6s. 4d., the ords.
being supported to the extent of 245. Id.
Last sales brought 235. sd. for the f.-p.
£1 ords., to return 6.8 p.c. from an 8 p.c.
div.
•)
Evans, Deakin & Co. (Qld.)
TVESERVES are the largest single item
in the balance-sheet of this prosper-
ous and well-established Queensland
engineer and shipbuilder. A moderate
div.-policy in earlier years enabled the
accumulation of a large surplus, but since
1950 ord.-shareholders have received divs.
averaging 16 p.c. as well as bonus-issues
in 1950 (one-for-one) and 1953 (one-for-
three).
The co.’s £349,540 paid capital includes
40,000 £1 7\ p.c. prefs. participating to
10 p.c., 60,000 £1 5-6 p.c. prefs., and
15,400 £1 employee shares paid to 2s. .
Earnings have risen steadily since 1947,
and the market places a high value on the
scrip, which has a net tangible backing
of £3O 16s. sd. first prefs., £l9 17s. 3d.
second prefs., and 90s. lOd. for each £1
of ord. and “employee” capital. The
f.-p. ords. at 675. return 5.2 p.c. from a
17| p.c. distribution.
Evans, Deakin and Co. was formed in
1924 to take over a business established
in 1911, the co.’s chief interests being
general engineering, structural steelwork
and shipbuilding. A 25 p.c. interest is
held in Commonwealth Engineering (Q.)
Pty., manufacturers of railway rolling-
stock.
A new factory at Geebung (Brisbane) ,
came into operation during the term com-
pleted last June and, with a continued
demand for the co.’s services, a larger
turnover was obtained. Shipbuilding
activities continued “steadily,” and two
10,000-ton bulk-carriers are in course of
construction at ,the Kangaroo Point ship-
yards.
Although profit-margins in some
departments were lower, the higher turn-
over (unstated) pushed net profit up by
£9797 to £148,171, after providing
£51,522 (up £9163) for depreciation and
an undisclosed amount for taxation:
t Dividends Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
Unexplained additions, £24,551.. 372,661
1952 .. 80.699 10 & 5 15 34,450 418,910
Unexplained additions, £36,893 .. 455,803
1953 .. 97,254 10 & 5 15 40,950 512,107
Unexplained additions, £61,16i .. 573,268
1954 .. 115,473 10 & 5 15 44,200 644,541
Unexplained additions, £85,702.. 730,243
1955 .. 138,374 10 & 6 17* 50,940 817,677
Unexplained additions, £70,037 .. 887,714
1956 . . 148,i71 10 & 6 17J 52,540 983,345
' * Excludes depreciation reserve, now £209,731.
The pref. divs. took £7600 of the earnings,
and the unchanged 11 \ p.c. ord. div.
required less than a third of the balance,
which was equal to 56.3 p.c. on ord. and
employee capital, compared with 52.9,
44.2, 36.9 and 40.8 p.c. back to 1952.
Reserves were £165,668 higher at the end
of the term, but the annual report and
accounts throw no light on an unexplained
addition of £70,037. Similar additions to
reserves in the four preceding years
amount to £208,307, and, coupled with a
reluctance to disclose the provisions
made for taxation, suggest that the co.
is not overdoing its estimation of net
profit.
The extent to which retained earnings
support share-capital can be seen from
the balance-sheet:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Old 246,586 246,893 219,540
Reserves .. .. 644,541 817,617 983,345
Depreciation reserve 188,862 197,729 209,731
Creditors, etc.* .. 400,631 543,236 560,909
Final divs. .. 25,800 26,400 27,340
£1,605,420 £1,931,875 £2,130,865
Land, buildings,
plant .. . , 598,157 717,595 758,665
Shares . . . . 66,982 82,432 96,456
Stocks . . . . 540,088 587,620 883,721
Debtors .. .. 247,562 376,417 275,999
Cash, bonds, etc. 162,631 167,811 166,024
£1,605,420 £1,931,876 £2,130,865
* Includes tax provision.
The book-value (“cost and/or valuation”)
of fixed assets increased by £41,070 and
stock, including work in progress, jumped
by £246,101 to £833,721. Undistributed
profits, an increase of £17,673 in creditors
and a fall of, £100,418 in debtors provided
the funds necessary for these movements.
Orders in hand are expected to ensure
a satisfactory turnover in the current term
and another successful year is indicated.
Minster, Ltd.
A COMPARATIVE youngster as public
companies go, Minster, Ltd., has cer-
tainly displayed the vigor characteristic
of youth in its rapid expansion and profit-
winning ways.
Since incorporation in 1952, the co.,
while maintaining a high earning-rate, has
acquired all the paid capital of Rayon
(A/sia) Processing Co. Pty., Linatex
(Aust.) Pty., and Sydney Cotton Mills,
Ltd., as well as duplicating a production-
unit at the main Dandenong (Vic.) plant.
Practically all the finance for these trans-
actions came from earnings retained after
a 15 p.c. div., and shareholders, who might
otherwise have expected a request for
more capital, received instead a three-for-
four bonus-issue in the current term.
Minster, Ltd., was formed as a holding
co. for Westminster Carpets, Pty. (the
brainchild of Jack Dews and the Keigh-
leys, of Bradford Cotton Mills) and
the Whitehead Chemical Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
the latter co. supplying the rubber dis-
persions used in the manufacture of the
group’s main product, rubber-backed
carpet. Linatex carries on business as
fabricator of abrasion- and corrosion-
resistant rubber products, while Rayon
Processing manufactures flock and flock-
coated paper and fabrics. The assets, less
freehold, of Sydney Cotton Mills were
sold to Davies, Coop and Co. in the
current term, 150,000 f.-p. ss. shares being
received as partial consideration.
The motor trade takes most of the
carpet output, but increased production
should help meet the strong domestic and
commercial demand.
The recently completed three-for-four
bonus-issue lifted paid capital to
£1,079,197 in 10s. ords. Scrip to a face-
value of £530,000 was exchanged for the
capital of the original subsidiaries, and
subsequent acquisitions led to the issue of
a further 173,367 f.-p. shares.
Earnings have increased in each of the
co.’s four years, and to June 30 last dis-
closed net profit was £192,541 (up £3497)
after providing £134,433 (up £31,308) for
taxation and £33,393 (up £8566) for
depreciation. Turnover is not revealed:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.!
30. £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4BB .. .. 69,482
1953 .. 132,919 8| p.c.=81,583* f)1,336 120,818
Preliminary expenses written - off,
£1796 119,022
To stock reserve, £7784 .. .. 111,238
Added intangibles, £10,739 .. .. 100,499
1954 .. 151,888 15 p.c.=79,922 71,966 172,465
Loss sale assets, £4559 .. ... 167,906
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 157,906
Unexplained reduction, £292 .. 157,614
1955 . . 189,044 15 p.c.=80,344 108,700 266,314
Revaluation subsid’y assets, £181,844.. 448,158
Profit sale fixed assets, £3OO .. 448,458
Tax underprovided, £707 .. .. 447,715
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 437,751
3956 .. 192,541 15 p.c.=92,155 100,386 538,137
* Includes £35,208 interim dividend paid to former
shareholders of subsidiaries.
t Subject to intangibles, £14,026 at 30/6/’56.
The earning-rate of 33.5 p.c. on the higher
average capital is slightly under the pre-
ceding term’s 35.2 p.c. but above the very
satisfactory 30.7 p.c. average for the last
four years. On paid capital as it now
stands a continued 15 p.c. div. would
call for £161,879 or £30,662 less than last
term’s earnings. The duplicated plant
should assist earnings this year.
As in the previous year, an adjustment
was made to the “cost of shares and assets
in subsidiary cos.,” with a resultant
increase of £181,844 in the “capital”
reserve. This revaluation, coupled with
capital-expenditure, added a net £291,529
to fixed assets, shown in the accounts at
either 1951 or 1956 valuation and cost:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE-SHEET.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £535,625 £535,625 £616,684
Reserves . . .. 169,989 266,314 538,137
Outside interests.. 460 548 •
Overdraft . . .. 105,831 12,275
Creditors . . .. 58,749 55,067 85,511
Staff fund.. .. 10,000 20,000
Tax provision .. 99,032 117,342 146,483
Final div. .. 40,172 40,172 46,251
£1,009,858 £1,025,068 £1,465,341
Freeholds .. . . 241,066 277,480 398,466
Plant, etc 342,604 328,940 499,483
Stocks .. .. 331,304 225,878 375,816
Debtors . . .. 86,193 92,906 177,550
Cash, etc. .. 1,155 86,053 ■
Intangibles .. 7,530 13,811 14,026
£1,009,858 £1,025,068 £1,465,341
Stocks (up £149,938) and debtors (up
£80,011) were considerably higher at the
end of the term, and to supplement
funds available fropi earnings the co.
eliminated an £84,128 cash holding, ran-up
a £12,275 overdraft and added £30,444 to
the amount owing to creditors.
The drop in motor-vehicle registra-
tions and the effects of tighter credit on
home-furnishing indicate that the current
term will see a greater emphasis on sales.
However, the demand for Westminster
carpet as a household floor-covering was,
recently, still in excess of supply. Reserves
are modest in relation to paid capital,
and it seems likely that the rapid growth
of the last few years will be followed by a
quieter consolidation period.
At 21s. the f.-p. 10s. ords. return 7.1
p.c. from a 15 p.c. distribution.


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Missing Friend
WOULD JOHN or JACK LOWE, formerly
a builder’s foreman in the Wellington
District of New Zealand, please contact
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE for
Ashburton, New Zealand, when he will
learn something to his advantage?
.
X4\
LIFE ASSURANCE
I Service
D FOR
3@D
WEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
«*»«• “•»-
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
DULY & HANSFORD
LIMITED
Mr. A. Duly, Chairman, proposes to deliver the following address at the
TWENTY-FIRST ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING,
to be held on Tuesday, the 27th November, 1956.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
I have much pleasure in presenting
to you the Balance Sheet and Profit
and Loss Account for the year ended
30th June, 1956, supported by the
Reports of the Directors and Auditor.
I am pleased to be able to report
that your Company has had a
satisfactory year of trading and that
turnover shows an increase of 18.14%
when compared with the previous
financial year, and also an increase in
Net Profit of £33,125 after cha-ging
£44,908 for Depreciation.
As a result of alteration in the
Company rate of taxation, combined
with the effect of increased Net Profit,
it will be noted that the provision for
taxation has been increased by
£24,483 over that of the previous year,
leaving a final Profit increase of
£8642. It is pleasing to report that
the percentage of Net Profit earned,
before providing for income tax pay-
able, was 21.4% to fully-paid capital,
and after taxation 12.19%.
The upward trend of costs is
regarded by your Directors with con-
cern as we recognise the need to keep
our prices competitive with those of
imported products and thus maintain
them within the buying range of the
consumer. Import restrictions should
assist, but it would be unwise to
consider them as a foundation for
future development.
During the year considerable
development and expansion of
activities has taken place with the
installation of new, and modern Plant
to the value of £193,876, and Build-
ings to the value of £26,391. Special
mention is made of a complete unit of
machines for the forging of motor
vehicle rear Axle Shafts which is
considered to be the most modern of
its type in Australia and would com-
pare favourably with any Plant of a
similar nature overseas. This
expenditure has been fully justified
by the support we are receiving for
manufacture of Equipment Axle
Shafts from the motor manufactur-
ing organisations.
Whilst the forging of motor vehicle
Axle Shafts is the prime purpose for
which we installed this Plant, it is
not of single purpose design, and can
be readily adapted to many types of
forgings for other applications, and it
is already being used for products
outside the motor car industry.
We are most pleased to report that
turnover for the period July to
October of the new financial year is
still showing the upward trend. We
have every confidence in the future of
our Company, as we have established
a very close link with both the
Engineering and Automotive
Industries of Australia, and the Trade
Name, “Dufor,” under which we
market our products, is accepted as a
standard of quality throughout Aus-
tralia and those customers we have
in overseas countries.
It is of interest to note that almost
2,250,000 motor vehicles are running
on Australian roads, and the servic-
ing of these vehicles has created a
vast industry, and it is to be
appreciated that we are firmly
established as suppliers of Replace-
ment Parts as well as Parts for
original Equipment.
NET PROFIT, £224,037.
(Last Year, £190,912.)
The Net Profit for the year, after
charging Depreciation amounting to
£44,908, was £224,037, and out of
this profit provision of £96,483 has
been made for income tax payable.
Of the remaining profit, viz.,
£127,554, your Directors recommend
the payment of a Final Dividend at
the rate of 10% per annum amounting
to. £52,343. An Interinf Dividend
amounting to £52,343 was paid in
July, making a total dividend pay-
ment of £104,686 for the year, leav-
ing a balance of £22,868 to be added
to the accumulated profits, making
the total of this account £115,816. ,
RESERVES
The total Reserves shown on the
Balance Sheet amount to £523.872
and with the exception of : the
unappropriated profits, have not
been drawn upon during the year.
It will be noted that the Reserve
appearing on the Balance Sheet
represents 40% of the Paid Capital,
which your Directors consider to be
satisfactory. It is the policy of the
Board to place as much as possible
to the credit of Reserves consistent
with the payment of a satisfactory
dividend to shareholders.
LAND AND BUILDINGS, £209.394.
(Last Year, £183,003.)
Valuer-General, £287,550 (22/8/’55).
These assets stand in the books at
£209,394, the additions for the year
being £26,391.
PLANT AND MACHINERY,
£452,869. (Last Year, £362,862.)
After making provision for
Depreciation for the whole Plant, the
Balance Sheet discloses a Net increase
of £90,007 after adjusting the liability
under Hire Purchase of £64,913, but
the gross capital cost of the new
Plant installed during the year was
£193,876.
DEPRECIATION PROVISION,
£44,908. (Last Year, £36,970.)
Adequate provision for depreciation
over the whole plant has been made,
and shows an increase of £7938 com-
pared to that of last year. The
increase in this provision is the result
of additional Plant acquired. All
Plant, Machinery, etc., has been
maintained in first-class condition
during the year.
TAXATION, £96,483.
(Last Year, £72,000.)
The provision of £96,483 has been
made out of the profits for the year
at current rates and is considered to
be ample to cover all taxation for
which the Company is liable.
SUNDRY DEBTORS AND BILLS
RECEIVABLE, £237,873.
(Last Year, £161,519.)
The increased value of these items
is directly attributable to the higher
turnover obtained during the year.
All debtors’ accounts are in excellent
order.
STOCKS ON HAND, £1,012,926.
(Last Year, £l,OOO 123.)
The higher value disclosed of
£12,803 under this heading is con-,
sidered satisfactory in view of the
increased turnover of 18.14%. Strict
control of our manufacturing
activities in relating Production to
Turnover has contributed to a com-
paratively small increase in this asset.
BANK OVERDRAFT, £289,066.
(Last Year, £138,789.)
The increased liability of this
account to the bank is consistent with
the addition of fixed assets and the
necessity to finance an increase in
Sundry Debtors by £76,354.
MELBOURNE OFFICE
The Board has considered that, in
the interests of our many customers
in Victoria, the establishment of an
office in this' State would be
advantageous, and accordingly the
Company opened a registered office
at 232 West Toorak Road, South
Yarra, during the year. Mr. R. B.
Bell, an executive of this Company,
was appointed Melbourne Manager
and Mr. A. Terdich, previously acting
as representative in Victoria, has
joined the staff.
MELBOURNE STOCK
EXCHANGE LISTING
The Board has also considered it
appropriate to apply for listing of the
Company’s Ordinary Shares on the
Melbourne Stock Exchange.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
The Automotive Industry is one of
everchanging designs and methods of
manufacture where both experience
and foresight are necessary in plan-
ning for future expansion, and to
show just how this is being looked
after, we have to report that further
modern Plant to the value of £60,000
has been placed on order and is
expected to be delivered during the
coming year. We also have plans
for expansion to Buildings to the
value of £20,000.
PERSONNEL
Management requires something
more than producing and selling
goods; a third and major factor is the
successful building of a close relation-
ship between Employer and
Employee, from which emerges that
co-operation and loyalty so necessary
in industry today.
I am pleased to say that, in this
Company, we have embarked on this
policy to a marked degree, with
Superannuation and Incentive Pay-
ments, the establishment of a Social
Club, and anything that has for its
objective the aim of making con-
ditions of employment as happy as
possible.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. C. L. Duly, Director in charge
of Manufacture, has been overseas
since March and will be returning at
the end of November. He has made
a thorough investigation of similar
industries to ours in the U.S.A.,
Canada, Great Britain, and the
Continent. His long experience in
manufacture should enable him to
gain much information and knowledge
which should be put to valuable use
in the interests of the Company on
his return from abroad.
CONCLUSION
I now take this opportunity to
express our appreciation to all people
in the for the loyalty
they have shown and the assistance
they have given to the Management
throughout the year.
To all customers —both in Aus
tralia and overseas —we again thank
them for the support they have given
to us.
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aus-
tralia), Ltd.
SPONSORED by Rothman’s,
Ltd., of London, the Aus-
tralian co. was formed in April,
’55, and began manufacture of
cigarettes later in the year, after
erecting a modem factory on an
Bi-acre site in the Sydney
suburb of Granville.
The English co. took-up
250,000 £1 ords. for cash and
also received 125,000 deferred £1
ords. in exchange for the Aus-
tralian rights to market and
distribute several well-known
brands of cigarettes. The scrip
is listed in all capital cities.
Although there has been a
slight decrease in the per capita
consumption of tobacco, the
following table indicates an up-
ward trend in total Australian
consumption:
Total Consumption
Consumption, Per Head,
Year. ’OOO lbs. lb.
1952-8 .. 42,842 4.90
1958-4 .. 46,092 5.17
1964-5 .. 46,863 5.16
1955-6 . . 47,271 5.07
A temporary reduction in
demand followed suggestions of
a relationship between lung-
cancer and smoking, but there
has been little lasting effect on
sales throughout the world.
After a 15-year shortage,
locally manufactured cigarettes
became more freely available
early in 1956, and, while buyers
exercised their almost-forgotten
right to choose a particular
brand, there was a revival of
competition amongst Australian
manufacturers.
The task of establishing a
position in the Australian market
proved fairly expensive, but the
co. now claims a current turn-
over at the rate of £5 million a
year after seven months of full
production. The cost of obtain-
ing this share of the market is
reflected in thd co.’s accounts for
the year ended June 30 last,
which disclose a loss of
£196,220 for the term. Prelim-
inary and establishment expenses
are shown in the balance-sheet at
£43,487, while goodwill has been
brought in at £125,637.
The directors state that a
“manufacturing profit is now
being earned,” and that it
“would be possible to return a
net profit on a volume of sales
below that now enjoyed.” In
support of this confident out-
look the current production pro-
gramme calls for further
increases in output.
To finance capital-expenditure
in excess of that originally
planned, and to provide neces-
sary working-capital, the co. ran
up a £398,804 overdraft and at
balance-date owed another
£73,448 to Rothman’s of
London. The English co. has
agreed to provide such finance
as is required until conditions
are more favorable to a new
share-issue.
The deferred shares rank after
the ords. for return of capital,
the articles providing that the
deferment period shall expire
after taxed profits have equalled
or exceeded 10 p.c. of paid
capital for a period of three
years.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net
tangible asset backing of 12s. 4d.
and sold recently at 16s. 3d.
Barrow Island
[From li. Owen]
WHEN I welcomed the deci-
* * sion to survey Dirk Hartog
Island (B. 2/11/’55) I had in
mind not only the sound
geological logic in shifting oil-
search operations westward, but
I realised, also, that work on
The Strange Case of the
CARNARVON BASIN -
page 30.
this restricted area would
enforce a much more detailed
type of examination than had
been made during, say, the
speed - happy “reconnaissance”
(to quote an extreme example)
of the Canning Desert Basin
(B. 28/9/’55). That the detailed
examination of Dirk Hartog
Island has revealed data of great
interest is indicated by the fact
that the original programme of
three shallow structural bores
has already been expanded to
16, and that the drilling of a
deep test-well is now under
consideration.
Now comes the news that the
even smaller Barrow Island,
some 70 miles north-east of
Onslow, is to be surveyed ip
detail, both geologically and
topographically, by a party of
two geologists and two field-
assistants who will spend several
weeks on the work.
Very little is known of
Barrow Island, the eastern coast
of which was mapped, in part,
by H.M.S. Penguin during its
charting of the Mary Ann
Passage in 1899-1900. The
exposed west coast has not been
surveyed, except from the air.
The northernmost point of the
island is at Lat. 20° 40' S. and
Long. 115° 27'E. approximately,
and it extends southwards for
about 20 miles. Its greatest
width, from Cape Malouet to
the east coast off Double Island,
is about seven miles. The land-
area, of rather less than 100
square miles, possesses a topo-
graphy which indicates pene-
planation at just below 300 ft.,
followed by “youthful” erosion
interrupted, possibly, by two
other periods of peneplanation.
Since the Penguin survey the
island has rarely been visited,
but two geologists employed by
Wapet went ashore in October,
1954, and made some brief
notes.
The present party, fortunately,
will have more time available,
and circumstances (also for-
tunately) will force it to work on
foot —which, as I have often
said, is the only way in which
to obtain really detailed and
reasonably complete geological
information at outcrop. I trust,
for the sake of the party and
for the geological education of
its members, that no predeter-
mined limit will be set for the
completion of the survey.
It is possible—often with
great benefit —to spend many
months in the intensive geologi-
cal study of a single acre of
interesting terrain, and the sig-
nificance of the knowledge so
gained may extend for many
miles horizontally and for
many thousands of feet below
ground. Often it possesses
regional value.
With the oncoming and per-
fecting of geophysical technique,
it is a sad fact that the number
of oil-geologists with the
patience to collect and the skill
to interpret the detail laboriously
extracted at outcrop has
diminished. It is to be hoped,
therefore, that the rock-hound in
charge of the Barrow Island
expedition has acquired the
background and training which
will enable him to take full
advantage of the opportunity of
working on foot, untrammelled
by considerations of speed or
by geophysical predictions.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A new Tivoli has emerged. Gone is the
cumbersome interior with the faded gilt-
trimmings, and in its place is a veritable
jewel-box of a theatre. The stage has
been levelled, the boxes altered to a more
attractive setting, and padded and studded
in soft dove-grey fabric. New seats have
made the “gods” more comfortable, and
dress-circle patrons will welcome the
elimination of the posts they had to
dodge. The foyer is now wide and
spacious. The opening night of “Olympic
Follies” was quite a gala occasion, with
searchlights playing on the facade.
Special guests of David N. Martin and
his wife were members of the Olympic
Games executive-committee headed by
Chief Executive Officer, Sir William
Bridgeford. Lady Bridgeford wore a
gown of Chinese-brocade and a white
Arctic-fox stole. Mrs. Martin’s formal
gown of soft-grey faille featured a draped
bodice. The wife of the Premier, Mrs.
Henry Bolte, wore cream silk-tissue
patterned with a gold thread (it was made
from a sari). The Lady Mayoress’s short
frock was of black Chantilly-lace. Her
daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, chose a
frock of forest-green silk. Mrs. Gordon
Cooper’s short, full frock was of beige
guipure-lace. Mrs. Norman Bennett wore
an attractive frock of black tulle hnd
velvet.
ft ft ft
Sir Norman and Dame Mabel Brookes
were guests-of-honor at a late-afternoon
party at the Oriental Hotel given by the
publishers to launch her book, Crowded
Galleries- Host and hostess were Mr.
F. T. Sambell, Melbourne manager of
Heinemann’s, and Mrs. Sambell. Dame
Mabel, who wore a black suit and dyed
ermine stole with a small bright-blue
petal-cloche, said it had taken her 12
months to write the book. Several well-
known sporting personalities who are
mentioned in it were present at the party,
and included Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Patter-
son and the Walter Lindrums.
ft ft ft
Noted at the opening night of “Cosi
Fan Tutte” at Her Majesty’s Sir Robert
and Lady Knox, Mr. and Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers,
Miss Gertrude Johnson, Dr. and Mrs.
Hallows, Dr; Gladys Hallows and Dr.
Margaret Troup, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and her daughter Mrs. Jim Campbell,
Mrs. L. Richards and Miss Myra Roper.
ft * ft
The Legacy Olympic Ball, which has an
all-male organising-committee (but wives
are standing by to help with advice!),
promises to be something out of the box.
At 9.15 there will be a seven-course
dinner prepared by leading chefs: hors
d'oeuvres, followed by oysters, kangaroo-
tail soup, curried Tasmanian scallops,
Sorbet Batman, roast-chicken, King
Island crayfish, Newburg or lobster-salad,
and ice-cream Gellibrand. There will
also be supper about 2 a.m. Tickets are
£lO each. The ball will be held at the
Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, on November
30. Decorations will be in the Olympic -
theme. Tickets are obtainable from Mr.
Keith Wilkinson, at Melbourne Legacy
(MB 2854 or MB 5361).
ft ft ft
Among the Olympic functions now
being planned will be the gala-premiere
at Hoyt’s Victory Theatre, St. Kilda,
of the film “The King and I” on Novem-
ber 27. The Youth Aliyah Organising
Committee will be responsible for selling
the tickets, and already they have £2oo'
in hand. The premiere is listed in the
Olympic Games Reception Committee
calendar, and a number of business
organisations which will be hosts to dis-
tinguished overseas visitors have already
made bookings. It is likely that Mr.
Oscar Hammerstein, who is here for the
Games, will officially introduce “The
King and I,” broadcasting from the foyer
of the theatre. Henry Haskin’s “Gown
of the Year” will be modelled by a
well-known mannequin, and a group of
young mannequins, dressed by Haskin,
will sell the programmes. Further details
may be obtained from the Victory
Theatre, St. Kilda.
ft ft ft
Another interesting Olympic function
will be the concert presented by the Astra
Chamber Orchestral Society at the
Assembly Hall on November 19, when
Australian works will be performed by
the composers themselves. They are
Margaret Sutherland, Anne Macky, John
Tallis and Dorian Le Gallienne. Book-
ings may be made with Mrs. Gerald
Warner, 36 Anderson-street, South
Yarra.
Lovely Sena Jurinac (it’s pronounced
Say-ner Your-ree-natz) was born in
Trevnik, Yugoslavia, her father a Croatian
doctor of medicine, her mother a
Viennese. Educated in Zagreb, she went
to the Musical Academy in that city for
two years of singing study, making her
debut in 1942 at the Zagreb State Theatre
as Mimi in “La Boheme.” Since then
Sena has sung in Vienna, at the Salzburg
Festival, at La Scala, and at Glynde-
bourne every season since 1949. She
was also the star of the J. Arthur Rank
film about Glyndebourne, “On Such a
Night.” This fine artist is guest-star of
the Elizabethan Trust’s current Mozart
season.
Perhaps the gayest spot on Derby Eve
was the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. Pister-
man of Toorak, where the coming-out
dance for Wendy Pisterman and Gail
Challingsworth was held. Almost 200
guests danced in a pink-and-white
decorated marquee. Balloons, and large
bowls of lilies, carnations, rhododendrons,
blossom and roses gave plenty of color
to the background. Wendy wore a long
frock of white French-lace with fullness
at the back of the skirt; the fitted bodice
ac * a heart-shaped neckline and tiny
shoulder-straps. White tulle, embroidered
with silver lace studded with crystal beads
anc * rhinestones, was Gail s choice.
Among the dancers were Diana Laurens,
L° uise oe E> av| dson, Caroline
Watt and Mary Bannerman, Ricky Lay-
cock, J° nat^an Welsh and Anthony
Jackson.
It was heart-breaking weather for the
Derby. One minute the sun shone, the
ne xt there was a downpour which sent
women scurrying for shelter. Although
generally fashion was in the minor mode,
nevertheless there were some attractive
ensembles. Lady Brooks chose a lovely
coat of bluebell ottoman, fully flared at
the back, over a pastel-pink flower-
printed frock; her tiny pink-straw hat
was covered with flowers. White pique
reV ers and cuffs were featured on the navy
j acket of Lady Manifold’s wool suit;
her small flat hat of naVy straw was
finished with a white rouleau. Susan
Dodd added t 0 her be j ge Sl fi t a huge
lime-yellow straw hat swathed with
chiffon,
Mrs. Ray Joseph pinned a large fob-
watch on the pocket of her navy jacket,
Mrs. Ronald Nott wore a small basin-
hat of iridescent coq-feathers and carried
a matching muff. % Mrs. “Bing” Molyneux
had for her blue-and-white-checked
ensemble an umbrella of red-spotted white
silk just large enough to cover her hat.
Mrs. Graham Nathan’s hat was just tour
large cream organdie roses ; it went with
a black-barathea suit. • Jill Chapman
braved the weather in white linen
embroidered in pink flowers to match her
pink linen coat; her Garbo hat was of
white stitched linen. A large pink hat
was worn by Pam Dixon with a green
Paisley-silk frock. Mrs. Geoffrey Grim-
wade wore a bright orange tent-coat and
matching planter’s-hat swathed with
chiffon. Pleats and buttons were interest-
ing features of Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere's
black linen tent-coat, lined to match her
swathed oyster-toned flower-pot hat.
.SYDNEY
It has been quite an Italian week, with
a high proportion of the social functions
designed to entertain the crew of the
Italian cruiser Montecuccoli, who them-
selves opened proceedings by giving a
cocktail-party for 300 on the day of their
arrival.
On Wednesday there was a very elegant
evening of Italian music and art at the
Art Gallery. The brilliant color of the
Italian exhibition provided the back-
ground, and the Robert Miller Chamber
Orchestra provided the music from a
specially-erected platform in the main
court. The supper-tables were decorated
in the red, white and green of Italy, and
pizza was served with Italian wines.
Candlelight created the right atmosphere.
Meanwhile at the Trocadero about 500
attended the Gala Ball, where many
youthful members of the Italian com-
munity entertained parties. Acting-
Consul-General Dr. Farinelli and Signora
Farinelli (who looked very lovely in
white bouffant Julie) were host and
hostess, having left their eight-weeks-old
baby Flavia (who has also been blest with
the name of Woolloomooloo) at home
with her grandmother. Special copies of
the Italian newspaper “La Fiamma” were
printed for the ball, and, needless to say,
“Che sera, sera” was a favorite from the
orchestra. Noticed Mr. and Mrs. F.
Quaglia there, Mrs. Werner Baer (in
bronze and green brocade), Mrs. Veronica
Coltoff, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Gruffre, and,
from Canberra, Mr. and Rubbi.
The big function, of course, was the
reception given at the Australia by the
Italian Minister and Signora Consuelo
Daneo, who received the guests with
Captain Birindelli of the Montecuccoli,
and Dr, and Mrs. Benuzzi from the lega-
tion in Canberra. Just before the
reception the baptain had presented
special decorations to Sir Charles Lloyd
Jones (Commendatore, which means
“knight,” so that he is now a knight in
four countries, imagine!), to David Lloyd-
Jones. (Cavelieri Officiate) and to Rae
Bishop, Frank Cox, Rod O’Loan and
Bob Kidney, who are now “cavalieri.” It
sounds quite romantic, doesn’t it!
Nora Latham has returned to her home
in Orange afetr trousseau-shopping in
Sydney for her marriage to Peter
Crossley, of Koompartoo, Mudgee. Her
marriage will take place at the Church
of the Holy Trinity. Orange, on
February 27. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Quite a number of the guests from the
Italian Minister’s reception went straight
on to the buffet-dinner at Prince’s, at
which the new French car, the Dauphine,
was making its debut. A striped awning
and a red carpet gave a gala-atmosphere,
and on the dance-floor the car was hidden
in an enormous red cellophane bon-bon.
M. Pierre Guerin did the honors in the
absence of M. Pierre Vignal (who was
ill), and French Consul-General M. de
Montousee (who has joined the bearded
gentry) helped receive the guests. There
were crowds of people there, the W. J.
Smiths, the Lionel McFadyens, the C. R.
McKerihans with daughter Del in red,
the Noel Vincents (her dress a beautiful
embroidered blue satin), and Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Guiney.
ft ft ft
The wife of the Japanese Consul-
General, Mrs. Morisburi Seki, who has
been here only “half a month, gave a
most interesting talk and demonstration
of Japanese flower-arrangements at the
week’s meeting of the Garden Club at
David Jones’ annexe. Special attention
was given to the triangular arrangements,
but the bamboo wall-vases (which, by the
way, are on sale at Red Cross House)
also gave her listeners new ideas for
flower-decor. Mrs. Arthur Davis, presid-
ing at the meeting, brought some flowers
of the tulip-tree from her garden, and
also some magnificent branches of lilac
sent from Goulburn by Mrs. Gordon
Duff. The Christmas-party and annual-
meeting of the Garden Club, by the way,
is set down for December 13 at the Com-
monwealth Bank Building, Head Office.
☆ ft ft
This is the annual book-week for the
Bush Book Club of N.S.W., during which
you are invited to bring gifts of books
(nice ones, not “throw-outs”), magazines
or money for the Christmas-parcels.
Children’s books and “National Geo-
graphic Magazines” are especially needed.
☆ ft ft
Robert Wilson has lent his home at
Point Piper for a function in aid of the
Catholic Welfare Bureau, which has been
arranged by the Women’s Auxiliary. It is
a “Hungarian Evening,” with a musicale
arranged by the Council of Hungarian
Associations in N.S.W., to be followed
by supper and dancing.
☆ ft ft
Heartening news comes from Italy of
young Sydney singer Angela Arena’s
continuing success. Recently in a big
competition at Mantua she notched the
silver Orfeo (equivalent to an Oscar) for
the best soprano of any type, and a gold-
and-silver one as well for the best foreign
singer. Immediately she was signed up
for operatic appearances in Mantua,
Bologna and Milan, and engagements for
radio. A pupil of Franco Izal, Angela
won the “Sun” aria-competition in 1952,
and has been studying in Italy for the
past two years.
ft ft ft
It was .hard to see anything but hats
at the exhibition of paintings by dancer
Katherine Dunham and her husband John
Pratt, because the Louvre Galleries
where it was held is quite small and the
crowd that attended the opening was
quite, quite large. Miss Dunham herself
wore a lipstick-red hat, and opening-
speech-maker Hephzibah Menuhin was
.hatless, but otherwise the 'hats seemed
to be all white. Tall Mrs. Alec Leven-
thal’s white hat was easily seen, and
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s white, ivy-
leaves confection was notable. Artist
Mabel Hawkins (who has quite a number
of her own paintings hanging in the Con-
temporary Art Society’s show at the
Education Department’s Gallery) wore a
clever little cone-shaped cap of white lilac
and beige leaves. Mrs. Klingenberg, wife
of the Norwegian Consul-General, could
be espied under a mushroom-shape of
white straw-fringe.
There were a great variety of people
present, Mrs. Alan Copeland smart in
pale-blue linen and a. white tailored hat,
Mrs. John Bovill in a grey suit and (yes)
a white hat, Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Edwards,
Mrs. Rex Money in a beautiful red coat,
actor Hayes Gordon, dancers galore,
Tony Moynihan, Madame Dora Scott —
quite a representative gathering.
. ft ☆ ft
A performance of the English comedy
“Waters of the Moon,” by N. C. Hunter,
produced by Miss Doris Fitton, will be
given at the Independent Theatre on
Sunday, November 25, in aid of Sydney
University’s Chair of Australian Litera-
ture Fund. The play will be preceded by
a buffet-tea at 6.30 p.m.
Lady Braddon is chairman of the
organising-committee. Tickets for both
the tea (limited to 150) and the play may
be obtained from the secretary, Miss
Marjorie Haven (BU 5095).
CANBERRA
Dame Pattie Menzies, wife of the
Prime Minister, wore a teal-blue tailored-
suit with a matching head-hugging felt
hht when she was guest-speaker at an
afternoon-party given by the Country
Women’s Association to celebrate their
10th birthday in Canberra. The address
was the first given by Dame Pattie since
her return from abroad, when she accom-
panied her husband on his recent mis-
sion ; she gave a lengthy and interesting
talk on her impressions of countries
visited, with some amusing asides to the
Prime Minister’s ordeals with television-
appearances in London.
Yellow tulips and small bowls of mixed
flowers in blue and gold decorated the
official-table. Mrs. R. Lewis presided,
and a vote of thanks was proposed by
vice-president Mrs. T. Moore. Founda-
tion-member Mrs. P. A. Gourgaud lit the
candles on the large blue-and-gold birth-
day-cake, which was cut by the guest-or-
honor.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Faith lit the
Future
n
Roads are defence. Have you ever thought of
them that way?
They link our centres of vital production, are
our lines of communication. They are the means
of both concentration and dispersal in an
emergency. *
It has been authoritatively estimated that
almost one-quarter of all the roads Australia uses
could be regarded as defence roads in the strict
military sense.
I make this point to underline what I believe
to be an unreal approach to the question of our
national highways: We provide an annual defence
vote of about £2OO-million, and leave unbuilt the
roads without which any active defence measures
would be stifled.
No nation, in peace or war, can afford to leave
its roads neglected; least of all, a large and
undeveloped country like Australia.
Other countries, even older ones that have
been building up their road systems for centuries,
are busy now improving what they have, and are
building more.
Britain is spending £ 147-million in a four-year
plan to give herself modern motor-ways. The
American programme, runs into thousands of
millions of dollars, on what is already the greatest
road network in the world.
Now, I believe that roads are a productive
investment, and it would be fatal if Governments
were to regard them merely as sources of taxation.
Less than half the money collected in various forms
of taxation has been spent on our roads.
But I believe also that if we are to have good
roads we must be prepared to pay for them; if not
in taxes, then in tolls.
And as for building the roads to a national
pattern, this urgent and vital work could well be
entrusted to our own Governments and contractors,
and —let us be specific: where the task extends
beyond our human and financial resources,
contractors and workmen plus the necessary
finance could be introduced from overseas.
However we do it, we must have those roads.
// //as/u^ff
7
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Contemporaries
The Contemporary Art
Society’s annual exhibition at the
N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment Gallery is a cloud-cuckoo-
land of abstracts, semi-abstracts
and surrealism where anything
might happen ; and the surprising
ihing, among so much ingenuity,
imagination and goodwill, is that
it doesn’t.
Perhaps the painters are all
trying to encompass too much:
and he really does well in art
who can paint an apple.
For you can’t really paint
“Spring in the Cosmos” or
sculpt “The Atomic Age” in
wire-netting. The themes are too
vast. All you get with the one
is something that looks a bit
like black feathers and pink
“I think you're due for some interest .”
flames and mostly like pretty
paint ; and, with the other, what
more than battered wire-netting?
Still, something more-or-less
seems to happen in John Dutruc’s
scrappy “Bird”; John Stock-
dale’s spidery lines surmounted
by handsome beetroot, entitled
“Dancer”; Carl Plate’s “Children
at Play” ; Judy Cassab s “The
Lamp” (but she should be doing
much better); Collenridge
Rivett's fantastic little “The
Explorer and the London
Dandy” ; Ruth Faerber’s
stylised comedies ; U. Abolins’s
sketchy “Delphiniums”; S.
Rapotec’s “Composition” and
Latimer’s cubist women lament-
ing. And rather more occurs in
Judith M. Simpkins’s beery old
hags in the appropriate colors of
wallflowers, Erica McGilchrist’s
“Fire Escape” (which looks like
green bubbles) and Mark Henry’s
alert little wooden head which
has the excessively ingenious title
of. “The Bespoke Overcoat.”
The N. S. Wales National
Gallery bought a large, amiable
but undistinguished abstract for
no perceptible reason.
♦> *
Dargie in France
It must be an extraordinary
relief to a portrait-painter like
Dargie not to have a landscape
get up and say its nose is in the
wrong place; and that feeling
of relief shows everywhere in
his show of landscapes from
abroad at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries.
The paintings, especially the
smallest ones, are exactly right
for travel-notes. There is Dargie's
underlying firm draftsmanship ;
there are the freshness of
discovery and the pleasure of
travel; and there is no pre-
tentious laboring over them.
“On the Beach, Menton,"
“Edge of the Old Town,”
“Menton Garavon’’ and, particu-
larly, “Evening, Old Town,
Menton” with its soft pastel
colors, are most attractive little
paintings; as also, among the
larger paintings which don’t
always come off so well, is the
rich green “Evening, Hampstead
Heath.”
* ❖
As Sir Owen Dixon said,
Julius Wentcher, who is showing
oils and watercolors at the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau
gallery in Melbourne, is a much-
travelled man both in the realm
of books and physical space,
and all these various influences
show in his paintings. There
are hints of Homer in this,
of Bali in that and of Shanghai
in another. Unfortunately these
hints are only confined to
subject-matter. His horseback
warriors are Homeric in concep-
tion but there is nothing Homeric
about their execution. The
quality of his line is academic.
There is some substance in his
watercolors, where the color is
not so violent, but it is not a
very high order.
Stage and Music
“Samson and Delilah”
The boiled-shirt version of
Saint-Saens’s opera was pre-
sented at the Town Hall by the
Sydney Royal Philharmonic
Society and got away to a start
marked by uncertainty of tone
and attack in the chorus, and
orchestral playing which
responded with insufficient
vitality to the vigorous directions
of conductor Gerald Williams.
Allan Ferris started the
rehabilitation-work when he
began to put Samson’s case with
ringing high notes and great
exuberance throughout—he con-
jured a Samson strong on muscle
but weak on women, and you
could almost see him reaching
for the ass’s jawbone to smite
the Philistines, but using his own
all too frequently in ensnaring
himself in the amorous toils.
Apparently inspired by
Ferris’s fine singing, the choruses
began slowly to improve, and
towards the end of Act I, the
choristers suddenly found their
form and gave the “Fair Spring
Smiles Again” with warmth and
good balance. Thereafter they
kept more-or-less to a good
standard.
Tessa Schell was the temptress
Delilah, and she sang the two
best arias in the opera —“Fair
Spring Is Returning,” and
“Softly Awakes My Heart” —in
rich tone and near - perfect
control of legato. Noel Melvin
used his powerful bass-baritone
with artistry and in the third
act managed to convey much of
the Philistine high-priest’s bitter
sarcasm at the plight of the
blind Samson and the failure of
his Hebrew God to save him.
William Diamond was satisfac-
tory in the brief role of
Abimelech.
Gerald Williams’s conducting
had a whole lot to commend it
—particularly the way in which
he gradually brought both
ragged forces under tight con-
trol until, in the final act,
orchestral playing and choruses
were operating in concert and
even impressively.
♦> 's*
Germani
One almost expected to hear
Germani cry “Look, no hands!”
as, at Sydney Town Hall, he
rumbled through the solo pedal -
passages that stud the Toccata
from Bach’s Toccata and Fugue
in F. The brilliant, fast-moving
Toccata ended with a flourish of
heavy stops; and the grave
measure of the Fugue dia-
pasoned out. Halfway through,
with things pretty forte, Germani
suddenly transferred from the
Great keyboard to Swell flues
and mutations —a very effective
contrast.
Next, an attractive Aria,
composer unknown, which
Germani garnished with delicate
stops. Then, three of Bach’s
Chorale Preludes ; in the first —
“Wohl mir dass ich Jesum habe”
—the Vatican organist’s fingers
slipped once or twice, and one
detected a sick note on the Choir
eight-foot Clarinet. Of the two
other Preludes, “In der Ist
Freude” was a rolling paean of
joy, ’ and “In dulci jubilo”
meditative and Christmassy.
Franck’s Chorale No. 2 in
B Minor, with its many changes
of mood, occupied Germani till
interval, after which he forged
into Hindemith’s Sonata No. 1.
Having been subjected to Hinde-
mith before, one was agreeably
surprised at the presence of some
form in this work. Last on the
pro gramme was Franck’s
Chorale No. 3 in A Minor, the
best bit of organ-writing the
Frenchman produced.
A. W.
❖ ❖ ❖
Mozart Society Concert
Chamber music consisting of
rarely heard pieces by the master
of Salzburg were presented by
the Sydney Mozart Society at
the Conservatorium.
Maurice Clare (violin), Robert
Pikler (viola) and Lois Simpson
(cello) combined in two Adagios
and Fugues, one in F Minor,
the other in F Major. These
beautiful little works are an
admixture of Bach's polyphonic
form and Mozart’s incomparable
melodic style, with masterly
fugal treatment. They were
played with an obvious sense of
affection for their lyrical attrac-
tions, and with keen integration
of tone.
It is in work such as the Oboe
Quartet in F Major, K 370, that
Mozart’s mastery of woodwind-
writing—which brought high
praise from his friend Haydn —
is best exemplified. lan Wilson
brought his oboe to jojn the three
string-players in a reading in
which the oboe became the true
cantabile voice, especially in the
reflective middle movement. Mr.
Wilson’s tone in the lower
iecesses of the instrument’s
gamut was clear, sweet and
mellow. The lively good-humor
of the concluding rondo was
faithfully captured, the cross-
rhythms supplied by the oboe
contributing largely to its charm.
The Adagio and Rondo K 617
for Piano, Flute, Oboe, Viola
and Cello brought in pianist
Marta Zalan, the keyboard
supplying the percussion which
has replaced the original glass-
harmonica of the 18th century.
The effect of this most unusual
combination of instruments on
music which stayed within the
confines of a gentle melancholy
was extremely beautiful.
♦> * *
St. George Players
As the audience rocked with
laughter at the St. George
Players’ production of Philip
King’s farce “See How They
Run” at the Rockdale Town
Hall (Sydney), this new com-
pany must be reported as having
had a very successful beginning.
Peter Cal row’s production was
proficient, everyone was word-
perfect and the setting very good.
But more effervescence was
called for, and, in the first act, a
swifter pace. Calrpw himself,
playing the actor-soldier, overdid
the vagueness of the character
and nearly faded away altogether
at one point, while Pamela
Hawken, for all her comical
attitudes, harped too much on
the one note.
Cleverest bit of acting was by
{Continued on page 27)


Sacred and Profane
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
‘* p ACRED” and “Profane”
were the names of two
U boys who went to my
boarding-school . . .
naturally not the names their
parents had given them.
The source of the names was
a book of reproductions of Old
Masters, brought to the school
by some boy because there were
some voluptuous nudes. One of
the nudes was called “Profane
Love,” while another lady,
encased in heavy and disfiguring
garments, decorated with
religious trinkets, and wearing
an expression of the utmost piety,
was called “Sacred Love.” Only
one boy of the twenty-odd in
our dormitory professed to
prefer the clothed lady.
Not that he didn’t like girls.
He was just as enthusiastic about
them as the boy Porter who was
called “Profane.” Santley was an
adept at making the acquain-
tance of girls, and at weekends
he was frequently seen by the
shy and envious ones talking in
the most animated way to pretty
blondes with blue, innocent eyes;
even taking them for walks in
the public park where the band
played on Sunday afternoons.
The reason why he didn’t get
into trouble was that he could
always prove that he had met
them at church, and that the
excursipns were taken with the
parents’ knowledge and approval.
Santley was the sort of boy
whom the most nervous mother
would trust on sight; like the
romantic heroes in the approved
books in the school library he
was clean-looking, honest-eyed,
well-spoken.
Whether Santley ever incurred
any hostility through transferring
his favors so frequently from
one girl to another we were
never able to discover, but it is
quite possible that, being the
fair-haired boy that he was, he
would be given credit for “not
encouraging the girl to take
thing!* too seriously at her age.”
He dropped them when they
fell below. his standard of
feminine perfection—by leaning
heavily against him when a tram
lurched or accidentally putting
a hot, moist hand on his.
I discovered Santley’s ideal of
femininity when I wds persuaded
to go with him to a church
social. During a hymn-singing
interlude he nudged me to draw
my attention to a group of girls ;
there they were with heads
thrown back, showing the soft
purity of their young throats
against shining gold hair, sweet
voices raised and eyes turning
brightly to meet his.
He pressed close to my ear,
trying to draw me into the
bemused circle. “Little angels,
aren’t they?” And his eyes
shone as much as theirs.
"DORTER resembled Santley
A only in having the same
bright-eyed eagerness about girls.
He was dark, while Santley was
fair ; while Santley was in every
way a credit to the school, Porter
was frequently on the verge of
being expelled, as he had been
from several other schools. His
greatest problem was to avoid
being seen by teachers with the
kind of girls he picked up. No
parents ever saw him if he could
help it, and if he patronised the
public park it was only at night
when the crowds had gone home.
With us he was always willing
to detail his triumphs step by
step ; frequently showing us such
intimate souvenirs as jazz garters.
If any boy was ignorant of
the facts of life when he was
allotted to our dormitory, he very
soon knew much more than his
parents would ever have con-
sidered telling him. Indeed,
Porter had studied the matter so
profoundly that he had very
mature ideas about sex, and
while he admired the good-
lookers just as much as Santley
did, he had exotic theories about
the appeal of girls of certain
shapes and proportions.
The only thing that ever took
the minds of either Santley or
Porter off girls was the grim
threat of the future. Santley had
a prospect of winning a scholar-
ship which would pay for a
university education —medicine,
he thought, so that he could be a
medical missionary. Porter had
a much less lofty ambition. A
rich uncle was prepared to take
him into his business if he could
refrain from being expelled
again.
Destiny was against both of
them. Each discovered a new
girl as appealing in her separate
way as no girl had ever been
before, in the last few critical
weeks of school. An empty bed,
made up to look as if it was
occupied by a boy with the
blankets drawn over his head,
followed by the appearance at
the school of the angry parent
of a wayward girl, meant the
end of Porter’s hopes; while a
wild round of church socials
ruined Santley’s chance of con-
centrating on his examination.
T BELIEVE that showing an
attachment for “old-boys’ ”
organisations and school-
reunions is a clear indication of
arrested mental development,
but many years after I had left
that school and had been married
for some time, I was persuaded
to go along to the old-boys’
major entertainment for the
year; a visit to Sydney just
happened to coincide with the
date, and my wife rather liked
getting dressed-up.
The affair was overrun by a
horde of youths just through
and their girl-friends, thrilled by
the prospect of a dance at a
fashionable restaurant. The
few old-boys of my year who
were there were either trying to
be young-boys, or were sunken
into premature middle-aged
dullness.
But my interest unexpectedly
quickened when I heard some-
one say, “Who d’you think’s
here? ‘Profane’ Porter!”
There was quite a stir as he
came in; apparently his fame
had been handed down year by
year. He was wearing his old,
good-humored grin, though now
and then he seemed embarrassed
by pleasantries tuned to his
reputation. His wife was with
him.
No man would have wanted
to look twice at Mrs. Porter.
She was far too big for Porter,
who didn’t seem to have grown
since he had been a schoolboy.
She was strong-shouldered and
capable-looking, with legs
admirable merely as effec-
tive implements for walking.
She’d make a good mountain-
climber, I thought instantly.
Her hair was straight, cut
short and raked across her head
in a perfunctory, schoolgirl
manner, making her head look
too small for her body. She had
straight-staring, determined eyes,
and a square, outthrust jaw. She
looked prepared to battle for her
rights. She was dressed in a very
conservative evening-frock.
went over to talk to the
” Porter couple when things
had settled down a bit. Seeing
the woman at close quarters only
confirmed my first impression of
her; she had a hard, flat,
unmodulated voice, and a dog-
matic manner. She was slow
to comprehend any remark that
was not strictly factual and
extremely suspicious of it unless
Porter explained it to her. She
not only had no social gift, but
she killed it stone-dead in others.
Yery soon my wife, who
believes that the worst social
problems can be solved by getting
people to drink, suggested to me
that it was about time.
Mrs. Porter said “I never
drink! ”
The diplomatic thing for me
to do then was to invite her to
dance. But I would almost as
soon have volunteered to be
guillotined. I engaged Porter in
some harmless small-talk.
My attention came back
suddenly to Mrs. Porter, recit-
ing to my wife, in a much more
agreeable voice, her record of
achievement: “Willie is five,
Gladys is four, Tommy is
three”
“You’ve done pretty well,” I
said to Porter. His wife was
mentioning more names than
I could count. “Now let’s go
and have a drink; they won’t
notice we’ve gone.”
He took a glance at his wife.
“Just one, then.”
We went off and found a
waiter. Porter began to relax. I
knew that I’d have it then. I
only, needed to say to him, “I
was very interested to meet your
wife,” to have the whole story
spilled into my lap.
“Women! Ah, women!” he
said. “I thought I knew women
when I was still at school, but all
I’d learned then was to run
after the bait that they put in
their traps.”
“Nice, nice. Very well put,”
I said.
DORTER leaned close to me
and put a hand familiarly
on my shoulder.
“You think I’m henpecked,
don’t you?” he said. “Well,
you’re right.”
He laughed loudly, slapping
my shoulder to make me join in.
“Bait,” he said. “That’sit, bait!
She never was a clever woman,
but she had that dangerous
feminine gift of knowing what
a man wants most. She knew
exactly what I wanted, and how
badly I wanted it. And she
made me believe that she wanted
it too, and just as badly as I did.
“That’s what makes women
such a menace. Whatever a
man wants, there’s always a
woman who can make him
believe she’s got it. You’ve seen
my wife and talked to her. Now
what sort of a woman would
you say she is? Now don’t deny
it, you think that she’s a
wowserish, sour, old killjoy, and
that she’s always been like that.
But wait till I tell you something.
This’ll surprise you! ”
He beamed at me, anticipating
the effect of his next sally.
“Quite soon' after I got to
know her she agreed to go away
with me for a long weekend at
a pub.”
“You certainly surprise me,”
I agreed.
“She was quite good-looking
then,” he said, as if he could
sense something of what I was
thinking; “only seventeen, and
not nearly as big as she is now.
We went away quite often after
that. We were in a country
town and everyone must have
known what was happening but
she didn’t seem to care.
“When the priest got hold of
us one day and suggested that we
ought to get married I agreed
without much of a struggle. It
was either that, or bolt for some
other place far away.”
“Then you speedily became
respectable,” I said, to finish it
off.
He stared at me, shocked and
perturbed ; in his mind’s eye he
was still the gay Casanova. But
he wouldn’t let me put him off
his story.
“You know, I had a feeling I
was doing the wrong thing:
though I couldn’t for the life of
me think what was wrong with it.
“Then a terrible thing


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ** 2b
Yearly 22/6
CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 18
r-~
%
S 3
COBB & CO.
Among the countless migrants lured to Australia
by the discovery of gold were four Americans—
Freeman Cobb, John Murray Peck, James Swan-
ton and John Lamber. Between them they
were to revolutionise transport in this country.
They founded the coaching firm that became
famous throughout Australia as Cobb and Co,
Cobb and his partners launched their coaching ven-
ture in 1853, running over the rough, rutted roads
between Melbourne and Port Melbourne—a distance
of three miles—for 6/- a head. The service was an
immediate success. Gold-seekers were pouring into
Melbourne at the rate of a day and any
sort of transport that could move faster than a man
burdened by a miner's pack was worth paying for.
The Victoriafi goldrush was then reaching fabulous
proportions. In four years between 1851 and 1865.
Victorian diggers produced gold worth more than
£34 million.
With the prospect of rich rewards ahead of them.
Cobb and Co. began a coach service from Melbourne
to Castlemaine and Bendigo (110 miles) on January
30, 1854. Cost of the passage to Bendigo was £5 a
head.
Most of the outback roads at this time were little
more than crude tracks, but the fast sturdy coaches
run by Cobb and Co. were equal to all demands.
An indication of their value to transport-hungry
miners was the fact that, when the venture began,
two drays took 21 days to travel from Melbourne to
Bendigo. Carters were charging £l5O a ton for
freight.
After four years, Cobb and his partners sold out
and the firm eventually came into the hands of a
company headed by James Rutherford. Rutherford
expanded the undertaking (which retained the name
of Cobb and Co.) until, by 1870, it was harnessing
6,000 horses a day, covering 28,000 miles a week,
paying £lOO,OOO a year in wages, and earning £95,000
a year in mail contracts.
Remember—Always keep a bottle in the house
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED. EST. 1838
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
Ft?
1
4
GFIB
happened; suddenly, over-
night you could say, I woke up
one morning and found that
1 was married to a woman who
had lost her attraction for me!”
He was innocently, selfishly
aggrieved. •
“And she was going to have a
baby,” he said. “There
was a hell of a nice blonde
in the pub where I used to call
on my way home from work. I
soon got to spending a lot of time
talking to her. But there was
a quick finish to that. One day
I noticed a sudden silence around
me, and saw the barmaid staring
at something behind me. When
I turned round I saw my wife;
right there in the public bar
where she had no legal right to
be.
“Well, you might be able to
guess why she’d come, but you’d
never imagine the tongue-bash-
ing she gave me and that girl.
But that wasn’t the worst of it.
When she’d finished talking, she
got me by the ear in a grip I
couldn’t twist off and lugged me
out of the bar. We were hardly
out on the footpath before there
was the biggest roar of laughter
I’ve ever heard in my life.”
He made a Continental gesture
—it struck me that he might have
Latin blood in him.
“I can’t even dream about a
pretty girl without her shaking
me awake,” he told me finally.
“I suppose there are some
compensations,” I said, making
preparations to rejoin the ladies.
“There usually are.”
“Well, I’ve got a big family
of nice kids.”
“Then it looks as if your wife
regained her attraction for you.”
He shook his head. “Oh, I
wouldn’t say that. Just habit.”
.It seemed too doleful a note
to end on. I said the first thing
that came into my head. “There
was another fellow in our
dormitory who was very fond of
girls, too. Wasn’t his name
Santley?”
“Yes, yes, I remember him,”
Porter said indifferently. “ ‘Sacred
Love,’ we used to call him.”
“He was always looking for an
angel. I wonder if he found one.
“I doubt it,” Porter said.
My wife was in a bunch of
lively people wnen we returned,
and Mrs. Porter was so busy
turning earnestly from one
uncomprehended remark to
another that she didn’t give her
husband more than a disapprov-
ing stare.
A . discussion was going on
about a wonderful place for
spending a holiday, high up in
the north-coast mountains near
a lovely river, with little streams
running everywhere ; days just
warm enough to make swimming
and fishing enjoyable, and delici-
ously cool nights.
There were lots of cottages to
let, and many of the old-boys
were making a practice of going
there regularly. To my con-
sternation I heard my wife
promising enthusiastically that
next summer we would be there
too.
A PART from being protected
by roads that were a menace
to the gearboxes and differentials
of any car made (“After all, if a
place is easy to get at, it’s sure
to be overrun by the most
dreadful people”) the holiday-
resort proved all that was
claimed for it. If it wasn’t always
a pleasure to meet men one had
known as boys, there was a
certain amount of interest in dis-
covering what sort of men they
had grown into.
The wives were rewarding, too.
Their husbands came from a
democratic school and a wide
variety of social and economic
backgrounds, and there was a lot
of cautious sniffing-out before
each couple was assigned to its
right level.
One of the most pernickety
females to arrive was a pretty
little blue-eyed blonde who
couldn’t seem to bear to look at
anyone, and whom my wife
thought would be quite intoler-
able. We might not have
bothered to make her acquaint-
ance if I hadn’t been told that
she was the wife of my old
classmate Santley.
Since I had been treated to a
virtual X-ray of the married life
of his companion-piece,
“Profane” Porter, I had a com-
pulsion to find out what had
happened to “Sacred” Santley. I
persuaded my wife to arrange a
call at their cottage.
For some reason not apparent
to me, unless it was my wife’s
enunciation, Mrs. Santley
decided that we were socially
acceptable. In no time she was
demanding that we call her
“Ginny” though I noticed that
Santley was calling her “Virgie.”
It was simple enough to deduce
that her name must be Virginia.
Santley had lost much of his
boyish eagerness. He looked a
good deal more defeated than did
Porter. When the two women
were busy otherwise, I said to
him, “I see that you married one
of the pretty, blue-eyed blondes
you used to admire.”
He gave me a very cold eye
for a moment; then, making an
abandoned kind of gesture with
his hand, he said, “She’s the one
I got to know when I was at
school. The last one. The fatal
one.”
I chuckled conventionally! But
he didn’t smile.
“The one that made me fail to
land the scholarship,” he said,
to make his meaning clear.
“You wouldn’t blame her
entirely for that, now would
you?”
“I didn’t exactly blame her,
but when I missed the scholar-
ship I made up my mind that I’d
at least have her; sort of com-
pensation, I suppose.”
I took a look at Ginny, then
said, “Remember those little
angels you pointed out to me at
a church social?”
Santley looked at me sharply ;
then he said with a nostalgic, dis-
illusioned air, “Yes, yes, Virgie
was like a little angel then. The
sweetest little angel of them all.”
There was an exaggerated
emotionalism about him that I
hadn’t expected. It did not sur-
prise me to have him tell me that
he was dissatisfied with his job
as a head-salesman, and to hear
him making much of his home-
studies in religion, which had
qualified him for the position of
lay-preacher in a big suburban
church.
meanwhile lavished
hospitality upon us, passing
the drinks and cigarettes with
unabating eagerness ; all the time
Santley declining with an irrita-
ting show of moral superiority.
I wondered if he had become
so narrowly pietistic as to regard
her few social drinks as a fall
from angel’s state. I decided that
he was a rather trying person,
and passed him over to my wife
to see what she could make of
him.
Ginny immediately began to
talk child-psychology to me. It
appeared that she’d had her child
some years ago and it was now
old enough to be showing symp-
toms of maladjustment. She had
all the popular psychiatric terms
off pat, often leaving me
floundering after her exact mean-
ing, but giving the impression
that she was intensely worried
about the child’s welfare.
“No need to worry,” I assured
her heartily, “my experience of
children has led me to believe
that they are very hardy little
animals, both physically and
mentally. If you start worrying
about repressing them, they’ll
soon be repressing you.”
To this commonplace remark
she made a flattering response.
“Oh what an extraordinary
theory! How original you are.
You make me feel better already.
I’m sure there must be some
truth in it. You wouldn’t make
a mistake!”
My wife looked over alert.
“My thinking power is being
admired,” I told her. “What do
you make of that?”
She turned her back on me'and
went on talking to Santley.
Ginny returned to her
psychology. She wanted to
know, with a good deal of
urgency, whether I thought that
the repression of natural instincts
in adolescents could lead to a
desire for breaking-out in adult
life. It sounded, in view of her
angelic upbringing, as if she were
trying to have herself discussed,
though whether it was mere
egotism, or an attempt to
make me take an interest in her,
I was unable to decide.
Apparently my replies were
too cautious to be satisfactory to
her, so she drew the others into
a general conversation.
“There’s a shocking woman
arrived this morning, a Mrs.
Porter, accompanied by her hus-
band, poor fellow.” She
paused a moment, catching a
glance that passed between my
wife and me. “Oh, you know
her, do you? Well, I’m still going
to say exactly what I think of
her. She reminds me of a cow.
I’ll bet she has loads of
children”
“You’re right about the
Children,” I said. “Porter prob-
ably holds the record for his
year.”
“I suppose,” said Santley,
“that would be some sort of com-
pensation for being expelled.”
“Oh, he was expelled, was
he?”'his wife said with interest.
“Whatever for? I thought that
henpecked air of his didn’t reveal
everything!”
“Just breaking bounds,”
Santley explained rather testily,
obviously unwilling to mention
Porter’s moral delinquency:
“Going out at night when he
should have been in bed.”
“Why did he go out?” she
suddenly asked me.
“For fun, I expect,” I said,
backing Santley up.
“Something too terrible to tell
me,” Ginny said, getting a
woman-to-woman laugh from
my wife.
Santley glowered.
YX/ALKING back to our
* * cottage, my wife said
suddenly, “Poor Santley.”
“Why? What do you mean?”
“He’s so disappointed in his
wife.”
“What makes you think that?”
“I could feel it.”
“Well, he married her because
he thought she was an angel.
I don’t suppose any woman
could live up to that.”
“There’s a pretty big margin
between her and an angel!” ’
“You didn’t like her. I could
see that.”
“You wouldn’t expect me
to, the way she was going on.”
I thought that over carefully.
“You didn’t imagine she was
playing-up to me? She was just
trying to make an impression.
She probably does that with
everybody.”
“If that was all, why did poor
Santley look so worried?”
That made me laugh.
“If nothing worse than that
ever happens, he hasn’t much
to worry about.”
My wife took my arm and
gave it the old, familiar squeeze.
“But not all men are like you,
darling.”
FOR the next day some objec-
tionable busybody had
organised a big picnic down at
the river for all the “old-boys”
and their wives, making it
obligatory, in the way of social
organisers, by implying that all
sorts of loyalties were involved.
Once at the river he drafted
us all into our age-groups, all
the while grinning with a fatuous
delight over the pleasure this
officiousness was going to bring
everybody. It meant that we, the
Santleys and the Porters were
thrown inescapably together.
Ginny gave Mrs. Porter the
briefest nod civility demanded,
then affected to ignore her. With
Porter she exchanged a quick but
peculiarly understanding glance,
though she barely spoke to him,
either.
Santley at first seemed to have
as complete an aversion from
Mrs. Porter as his wife had, but
presently something started them
off on the irresponsibility of the
present generation. Santley was
obviously displeased at finding
in this coarse, vulgar woman a
champion of the virtues he had
always looked for in pretty little
blonde angels.
Porter acted, a little comically
at times, as if the moral stric-
tures were all aimed at him,
but if Ginny was amused she
didn’t show it.
The lunch we were obliged to
have together was so appalling
that it was a relief to have the
organiser come along and say
heartily, “Hullo! Hullo! Every-
body hippy? That’s right! I’ll
bet some tales are being told
today! That’s it! Keep up the
good work!”
Presently, with no resistance
from any of our party, we were
merged into an anonymous,
sheeplike mass and marched
willy-nilly to a waterfall far
beyond reasonable walking-
distance. We had only a brief
look at the falls when approach-
ing dusk made it necessary to
set off immediately on the long
walk back to the picnic-ground.
When we were finally drafted
out again into our groups,
Porter and Ginny Santley were
missing.
A T first there was a lot of good-
humored laughter and banter
about it; a crowd gathered
around our site, thinking it very
entertaining. But Santley and
Mrs, Porter were not amused.
Mrs. Porter behaved better
than I expected ; she just sat
there in stony silence, completely
at a loss among these unfamiliar
people. Santley tried to appear
cheerful and unconcerned
and showed some gratitude to
my wife for making trivial con-
versation. Yet somehow he
made it more apparent than the
silent Mrs. Porter .that both of
them were suffering agonising
apprehensions.
At last the missing couple
appeared Out of the semi-
darkness, looking so like an
innocent pair of chance acquain-
tances who had been unavoidably
delayed that the accumulated
tension leaked away and a hearty
cheer went up.
Ginny was holding on to
Porter's arm and limping. A
number of people found that
very amusing.
“A sprained ankle, heh?
Couldn’t you think of a better
one than that?”
“That’s too corny. You’ll
never get away with it.”
But others moved forward
sympathetically. Knowing-ones
took up her foot to examine the
ankle, and started back contritely
when Ginny shrieked. A couple
of men who claimed they knew
all about first-aid worked out
a way of carrying her hack
to the cottage ; the rest followed,
discussing the accident.
“Ah, bad luck, bad luck,” said
the picnic organiser. “Throws
a cloud over our celebration. But
how fortunate that Porter found
(<Continued on page 24)
OUT OF THE FRYING-
PAN
Did someone say
love is as fragile as eggshells ?
My love, my love,
shall I deny
words spoken by
one so much wiser far than 1 ?
But perhaps he did not know
how fond of omelettes
one can grow.
S.A.
LAN MUDIE.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANt LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
FIRST
ASSIGNMENT
By DOROTHY GREEN
THEY assembled nervously
in the Social Editress’s
room and waited respect-
fully while she talked on
the telephone. Her quick, com-
manding accents struck terror
into the hearts of the five new
cadets.
The Social Editress was not
altogether unconscious of this
fact, and her conversation with
the Composing-room became
more sprinkled with technicalities
than was entirely necessary. She
eyed Jenny Fry and Moira
Stanley suspiciously. They were
the youngest of the new lot;
they came from unquestionable
homes, they were impeccably
tailored and shod, and she knew
she was going to have trouble
with them.
For the life of her she couldn't
think why they were unable to
bring themselves to be supported
by their fathers until they had
married some unquestionable
young men and had their wed-
dings in the paper instead of
wanting to write about other
people’s. She preferred reporters
who had to live on their salaries.
You knew where you were with
them, a’nd so did they.
The Social Editress, happily
for her peace of mind, could not
knovP that Jenny and Moira at
that precise moment were so
transfixed with pride and terror
that they would have spread
themselves carefully over the
tramline if the duty-book had
required it of them. Their
pleasure at having achieved their
ambition—of the same vintage
as their recently discarded
school-tunics made their
intentions towards the Social
Editress so docile as to approach
imbecility. There was little trace
now of that initiative which had
enabled them to outwit the hard-
headed businessmen who had
fathered them and land a job
on the “Daily Wire.”
Jenny’s heart was beating so
fast that the sound was confused
in her ears with the clatter of
typewriters in the office outside.
She clutched her own tiny grey
portable and was comforted by
the feel of its hard, rough
surface. Moira was fingering
her cigarette-case, very new and
shiny, and was wondering how
long it took before you could
smoke without feeling sick
afterwards.
The Social Editress’s voice
took on a tone of finality, like a
Beethoven symphony winding its
way to its long-expected con-
clusion. “Yes,” she screeched
genteelly, “double-column spread
and 30-point lower-case sans-
serif.” She banged the receiver
down and rubbed out her
cigarette on the sole of her shoe.
The new girls straightened-up
involuntarily.
“Now, you girls,” she said
briskly, “you all know what you
have to do. But there’s just one
last thing, and new hands are
always inclined to forget it. It’s
this!” She fixed them with a
stern gaze and they all stiffened
Sharply. “What seems cham-
pagne to you when you’re out on
the job is generally fiat lemonade
to us in the office. It’s got to be
really big stuff to be worth more
than a couple of inches to this
paper. In other words, keep it
short and keep it snappy.’
She lit another cigarette and
waved them away. “Off you go
now . . .” “And may heaven
help you,” she added to herself
as she caught sight of Roger
Hawkins, through the glass
partition taking his place at the
subs.’ desk. It was just her luck
to have old Hawk-eye on duty
on this first night with the new
mob.
Hawkins was notorious for his
evil and uncertain temper, his
inadequate sense of justice and
his unfaltering eye for venial
sins in the copy of new reporters.
His reputation had also suffered
among more hardened sinners
from his tendency to pass the
buck to whichever colleague was
handy enough to receive it.
The Social Editress sighed and
inspected an incipient snag in
her new nylons. She’d done
what she could; they’d have to
sink or swim on their own.
MEANWHILE the new mob
was dispersing to its
appointed tasks: one to
verify the details of Mrs.
McToop’s long- threatened
cocktail - party; another to
write a modestly-triumphant
paragraph about the engagement
of the daughter of a high-rank-
ing haberdasher; another to
cover the committee-meeting of
the Women’s Rescue Guild;
Moira to ascertain how many
pounds of sausages would be
required to furnish forth the
midnight barbecue to be held at
the seaside residence of the
town’s leading bookmaker.
Moira was conscious of a lack
of enthusiasm for sausages in a
situation where gratitude to Fate
should have made her count her
blessings.
“What have you, got?” she
said suspiciously to Jenny, trying
to strike a match nonchalantly,
with a completely' unpractised
hand.
“The Lady Mayoress’s jumble-
sale,” said Jenny apologetically.
“I suppose they have to give us
these things to start off with, but
I had rather hoped for some-
thing more exciting. A jumble-
sale sounds so—dusty, somehow.
Sally Hooke has gone to inter-
view the leading lady of ‘Georgie
Porgie.’ Now, that would be an
assignment.”
Sally Hooke was the Social
Editress’s first-assistant. She
wore tight sweaters and her
hair in a pony-tail, and when
she went through to the subs.’
room, the sporting staff all
turned round in their chairs. She
never remembered that she had
been introduced to you twice
before, and she had a deep,
husky, bored voice.
Jenny was speechless with
admiration of this phenomenon
and wondered how long it would
take to reach the same heights.
She wished her clothes were
different. She felt she looked
like someone's favorite niece, off
to tea at the rectory.
“G’bye,” she said to Moira.
“Don’t let anyone use my port-
able. D’you want anything at
the jumble-sale?”
“A pair of stays,” said Moira.
“Be off. I have to count
sausages.”
Jenny needed rio urging. After
all, this was the real thing at last,
and you had to begin with
something. Even Alec Hearne,
she supposed in the lift, eyeing
him from under the brim of
her plain but expensive felt hat,
had probably begun with egg-
prices. Now he was a terrific
big-shot, and his reports of the
Army and Navy Conference were
front-page news every morning.
“Keep it short, keep it snappy,”
muttered Jenny to herself. After
all, there was a right way and
a wrong way to write-up even
a jumble-sale.
Alec Hearne couldn’t help
smiling at her frowning concen-
tration. Unlike most successful
men he had a soft spot for
beginners.
“Tough interview?” he said.
“Well, no, not really,” said
Jenny, relaxing her frown only
slightly. “It’s my first job,
though, and I don’t want to
mess it up.”
“What is it?” asked Hearne.
“I used to get the fish-markets.”
“It’s the Lady Mayoress’s
jumble-sale,” said Jenny with
some reluctance. It certainly
didn’t sound very impressive
when stated baldly to Our
Military Correspondent. “There’s
nothing in it, of course,” she
explained, feeling rather disloyal.
“I don’t suppose it’ll get a
mention.”
“Oh, you never know,” said
Hearne kindly. He was thinking
how distractingly her hair curled
on the back of her neck. “I got
a good story once out of a
church bazaar.”
“Did you?” She looked up
at him doubtfully.
“It was a good while ago,” he
admitted* “and there was more
paper about then. . . Here we
are. Which way do you go?”
“Tram,” said Jenny briefly.
“Good-bye.” And she hurried
across the road resisting the
attractions of several cruising
taxis.
“Never put your paper to
needless expense,” she repeated
to herself. That was one of the
things they’d been told in the
cadets’ class that morning.
Jenny caught sight of herself in
a shop-window. She was hurry-
ing anxiously—that would never
do. It was no good getting
excited about a jumble-sale, as
if the bank were on fire, or the
Governor-General shot at. She
fell into the languid lope affected
by Sally Hooke, and hoped she
looked like a veteran journalist
out to do a small job in between
top-line assignments.
This role was slightly at
variance with her conviction that
the prestige of the paper
depended to a great extent on
her report of the jumble-sale, and
her head began to feel a little
light. She boarded the tram
and tried to compose herself by
wondering what Alec Hearne
was doing now. She imagined
him in close contact with high-
ranking officers. “Well, Hearne,”
one of them was saying, “this
is strictly off the record, you
know, but . . .” It was possible
of course that the jumble-sale
had some undisclosed connection
with military intelligence, but
she had to admit that this was
in the highest degree unlikely.
The tram stopped with a
sudden jerk and Jenny tapped
her foot impatiently. It was
getting late and the sale would
have begun if she didn’t hurry.
“Traffic-jam,” said the man
opposite to no one in particular,
spreading out his hands and
shutting them again. “Dunno
what this town’s coming to.
Y’can’t go straight ahead for
more’n a few yards nowadays.”.
Jenny looked at her watch and
decided to walk the last couple
of blocks. When she got on to
the road she could see that the
trams were banked-up for some
distance ahead. Anxiously
quickening her pace she soon
came within sight of the hall
where the jumble-sale was being
held.
But to be within sight' of it
was one thing and to reach the
doorway was another. The
crow r d on the footpath grew
denser at every step and she
was about to make a detour by
the roadway when the shocking
scream of an ambulance drove
her back to the kerb.
The crowd on the roadway
divided as if by magic and
closed again as the ambulance
streaked past. Jenny decided to
forget that she had been care-
fully brought up. She used her
elbow and fought her way to
a policeman.
“This is where the Lady
Mayoress’s jumble-sale is, isn’t
it?” she said brightly, ignoring
his admonitory arm. “I’m from
the press,” she added, managing
not to burst with pride at this
first public declaration of her
status.
- The policeman stared at her
a little doubtfully and before his
better judgment could prevail
had let her pass. After all, she
HELIOPOLIS
A flame and a bird flew out of
the sun
To the shade of a banyan tree
To the other side of the tree
To the other side.
It burnt in the shade and it flew
in the sun
And the tree stood alone on the
hill —
Except for the bird and the hill
The tree was alone.
Then the flame of the sun and
the tree were one
And the bird flew back to the
sun.
The bird and the tree left the
hill—
The hill was alone.
Q-
ANTHONY MARCUS.


IXL
This World Famous Brand b
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers ofs—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
didn’t really look weak in the
head.
tENNY battled her way up the
J steps and plunged into a
seething cauldron of women.
For a moment she was com-
pletely at a loss.
She clutched her brand-new
notebook more tightly under her
arm. It was obvious that she
would never have room to use
it. She doubted whether if she
moved another step she would
have room to bfeathe. She didn’t
quite know what to do, so she
shut her eyes and tried to
remember the formulas of the
morning class.
“What or who, when and
where....” she muttered firmly.
She was here to write about the
jumble-sale and nothing was
going to stop her writing about
it. Not forty-million women.
Which seemed to be about the
number present. Approximately.
She tabulated her questions.
Number of stalls, kinds of goods,
rough estimate of takings, names
of prominent stallholders ... The
trouble was she couldn’t even
see the stalls, let alone the articles
for sale. Screaming, scuffling
women were swaying backwards
and forwards in a solid mass,
clutching unidentifiable garments
high above their heads. The
noise was the howling of wolves
in hell.
“I’ve got to get to someone
in charge somehow,” said Jenny.
“But if I take-off from here I’ll
be trampled underfodt.”
The ambulance shrieked again,
the sound this time strangled by
the bedlam of noise inside the
building. Miraculously, a path
opened in front of Jenny’s feet,
and before anyone could stop
her she dashed to the stall laid
bare at the end of it. Two
haggard - looking women
staggered past her, supporting a
fainting comrade.
Jenny clutched the table and
held on tight while the crowd
re-closed behind her. There was
a tall woman behind the stall
who must once have beep in
charge, but who had the air of
having been compelled to
abdicate by force of circum-
stances. Unable to depart, she
was obviously endeavoring to
take absolutely no interest in any
further proceedings.
Jenny shouted across the table
at her, throwing reticence to
the winds, “I’m from the ‘Daily
Wire.’ I have to write this up
and I’d be awfully glad if you
could give me a -few details.”
At this point, her hat was
knocked off her head; she
clutched at it wildly, but it was
passed swiftly from hand to
hand far out of reach. She gave
up the idea of repossessing it
when it was knocked down for
half-a-crown to a small raddled
blonde three rows behind.
“The ‘Daily Wire,’ did you
say?” shrieked the tall woman
back at her. “Well, we’re not
supposed to talk to reporters.
The mayoress’s secretary does
that.”
“Where is she?” yelled Jenny.
“Why, the ambulance has just
come for her!” said the tall
woman, fortissimo.
Jenny extricated her instep
from beneath the pointed heel of
a court-shoe. She moaned softly,
and the tall woman interpreted
it as sympathy for the fallen
secretary. The secretary was a
friend of hers and was generous
with concert-tickets; she had
frequently emphasised the im-
portance of good relations with
the press.
“What do you want to know?”
she asked at the top of her voice.
“Have you any idea how
much money you’ll make?”
streamed Jenny. “And what’s it
in aid of?”
“Sunset Cottages for Aged
Gentlewomen,” shrieked, the tall
woman, fighting off a new wave
which threatened to engulf her.
“Ring me up later; Parker,
Town Hall,” she managed to
gasp and then was swallowed-
up.
“Well,” thought Jenny, “I
don’t suppose I’ll get any more
sensible information here. I
know What, When and Where,
and now I know why. I can get
the rest later by phone.”
She looked wistfully round
her. It certainly was rather
exhilarating. Except for the
regrettable absence of armored
men, it reminded her a little of
the picture called “The Rape of
the Sabine Women” in her old
Latin book. It was an awful pity
the paper was so short of space
these days. Perhaps if she hadn’t
been a new cadet, they might
have spared her another inch or
two, for a bit of color. And it
would really have made rather
a good picture. . .
The crowd was growing more
hysterical now, and there was a
sound of sobbing in the neigh-
borhood of the stalls. Jenny
fought her way ruthlessly to a
side-exit as several policemen
surged through the main
entrance. The crowd of women
moaned collectively.
SHE was through the mob now,
and on to the roadway. A
hundred yards or so away the
road was clear again and she
waved to a passing taxi.
“I’ll pay for this myself,” said
Jenny ; “I deserve it.” She took
out her little handbag-mirror.
Her face was flushed and shiny
and her hair could have been
described as wind-blown. The
collar of her freshly-ironed
blouse looked rather like limp
blotting-paper ; her nylons, she
saw, looking down were a total
loss, and one glove was missing.
At any other time, the presence
of Alec Hearne at the lift-door
would have been a pleasant
coincidence. She tried to avoid
looking at him, but he waited for
her to enter first.
“Well, how’s the girl
reporter?” he said. “Everything
go off all right?”
“Yes, thank you,” said Jenny,
stiffly, and buried her face in her
new notebook. Its shiny pages
were still innocent of notes, but
she held it carefully averted.
“Let me know if I can help
you,” said Hearne as the lift
stopped.
“Thank you,” said Jenny,
“but there’s very little to do on
this.”
She hurried to her cubby-hole
and dragged her portable out of
the locker. The flattest of flat
lemonade . . . keep it short, keep
it snappy. . . She fitted four slips
into her typewriter!
A jumble-sale of cast-off cloth-
ing and household - goods
attracted large crowds of
shoppers to the Parish Hall,
King-street, yesterday afternoon.
The sale way organised by the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. A. Whit-
field. Proceeds of the sale are
expected to exceed £lOOO. The
money will go to the Sunset
Cottage Settlement for Aged
Gentlewomen.
The bargains caused some con-
fusion among hundreds of
women present. Several women,
including the mayoress’s secre-
tary, Miss P. Nixon, were
removed by ambulance for
hospital treatment.
Jenny stopped typing and
thpught deeply. “That’s about
the limit 1 suppose, but I’d like to
put in the bit about the police.
They can always cut it off it
space is really tight.”
Late in the afternoon, police
had to be called in to restore
order and disperse the crowds.
No arrests were made, but
several women were cautioned.
She whipped out the sheets
with a flourish. On her way to
the subs.’ room, she read it
through again with mild pride.
All the main facts were there
and she certainly couldn’t be
accused of wasting words. She
read it a third time and placed
it reluctantly in the basket.
Moira was in the cubby-hole
when she returned and the other
neophytes were trickling back
one by one. There ensued a
general exchange of experience.
“A hundred-and-fifty pounds
of sausages and three-hundred
chops,” said Moira, typing reck-
lessly. “Did you get my stays?”
“No, but I sold my hat,” said
Jenny, suddenly light-hearted.
“I’m going off to dinner. See
you later.”
WHEN Jenny returned from
dinner, she was surprised to
find the fifth floor in something
of an uproar.
Hawkins was visible through
the glass partition. His voice was
inaudible, but it was clear from
his gestures that he was Shouting
at the Social Editress. He backed
suddenly and his chair crashed to
the ground. The reverberation
was felt in the room outside. He
loomed over the Social Editress,
who retreated through the door
into the outer room.
“I don’t know who’s respons-
ible and I don’t care!” Hawkins
shouted, purple with rage.
“You’re supposed to be in charge
of this set of nitwits. Find me
the unmitigated moron who
turned this copy in and send it
along to me. That is, if it can
do more than toddle,” he added
bitterly.
He ran his hand through his
hair in wild despair.
“Do I have to run this
flaming paper single-handed? Do
I have to keep track of every
blasted story in the book to see if
the right one comes in?”
He peered again at the offend-
ing copy.
“What’s this, who’s this —Fry,
or something? Fry —I’ll fry her
in boiling oil.”
He speared a passing copy-boy
with his pencil.
“Fry! ” he bellowed. “Get me
Fry at once.”
The copy-boy was at a loss,
but he knew better than to ques-
tion his master. Hawkins walked
back to his desk trembling with
anger. The copy-boy backed in
the direction of the Social
Editress, who seemed to be
involved in this brawl, opened
his mouth wide and yelled
“Fry!”
Jenny appeared from behind
her cubby-hole. Moira had gone
to dinner now and there wasn’t
a familiar face in sight.
The Social Editress looked at
her with a pang of pity. “1 was
looking for you, but you’d gone
out,” she said. “I thought we
could have got it fixed up before
old Hawk-eye came back and
saw it.”
“Saw what?” asked Jenny.
“My story’s all right, isn’t it? I
checked the facts with the Town
Hall by phone and the copy was
as short as I could make it.”
“That’s just the trouble,” said
the Social Editress. “The story
was a riot—Hawkins heard
about it when he was out at
dinner, and they want to make it
a front-page splash in the morn-
ing. Hawk-eye said whoever
wrote it wouldn’t know he was
wet if he fell off a ferry-boat. At
least, I can’t tell you what he
really said —your father wouldn’t
like it.”
“Fry, Fry!” bawled the copy-
boy.
“You’d better go,” said the
Social Editress. “He’ll probably
tell you himself.”
Hawkins told her, forcibly and
at some length. His long career
in newspaper work had given
ample scope for his ability to
make female subordinates cry.
When, in this instance, he per-
ceived that he would be unsuc-
cessful, he took refuge in
vindictiveness.
“I’ll see the chief-of-staff about
you later,” he said. “In the
meantime, you’d better go and
give a verbatim account of the
story to someone outside, so that
I can get it made up for the
country edition. And next time
you bite off more than you can
chew, ring up the office.”
Jenny walked back to her
cubby-hole. It was clear that
suicide was the only thing left
to her. At least, as soon as she’d
got the copy ready for the early
edition. She was too battered in
spirit to be surprised to find Alec
Hearne sitting before her little
grey typewriter. She had yet to
learn that nothing, in a news-
paper office, is sacred. She stared
at him silently for several
seconds.
Alec cocked an eyebrow at
her. “What’re you going to do it
with —poison or pistols?” he
asked.
A tear trickled slowly down
Jenny’s nose and she blew
violently into her handkerchief.
“Hawkins sacked me three
times in the first week,” said
Hearne reflectively. “I got the
figures wrong and there was a
panic rise in the price of fish. I
didn’t turn in any more copy for
a week ; then I got a mild scoop
in the shape of a record flathead-
catch . .
Jenny sniffed and' blew her
nose again.
“Come on, kid, you sit on the
desk and tell me all about this
afternoon and I’ll bung it down
as you go,” said Alec. “Then
we’ll call it a day and go and
have a cup of coffee and I’ll take
you home.”
“Well,” said Jenny, blinking
hard, “I was going home to write
a farewell-letter to my father ..
JENNY failed to.beat her father
to the paper next morning, but
managed a furtive look at the
front-page as he turned over the
sheets to the Stock Exchange
reports.
“Bit of a scrum at a bargain-
sale yesterday,” he remarked, as
he folded over the page. “Wasn’t
that where you were going?”
Jenny cracked her egg
viciously and admitted as much.
Her father changed his mind
and looked again at the front-
page.
“You’d think they’d have
something better to do than
waste all that space on a pack of
silly hysterical women,” he
grunted. “I suppose you wrote
all this stuff?” he added with
grudging admiration.
“Well,” said Jenny guardedly,
“the main outlines are mine.”
THE ROSE-BUSH
The child who put white daisies on—
the muslin dress, the frosted sash -
danced into morning out of stone
to rob the wild rose-bush.
She had buttoned up the starch, the frost.
She had marvelled at flowers firm as stars,
till whips of shadow found bare skin
under the trees that guarded home
near the wa-ll that kept their dark force in.
But ndw the day leapt free of stone,
and grass sprang down the long green slope.
She held her field of daisies out;
she tipped her face towards the sun
to see the million bubbles smash,
then form their globes of light again
between blue sky and white rose-bush.
She reached into the glittering air
for the open heart and the glazed flesh.
A touch is all that light can bear,
or a wild flower frail as snow.
Over the fallen petals blew
the daisies’ thin, cold shadow.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3* ins.,
61 X 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
mn
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOKGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
her! His old classmate’s wife,
too! ”
That was the explanation
offered. Ginny had gone off on
her own during the return
journey to have a closer look
at an uncommon . flowering
shrub, slipped on a rock and
turned her ankle. Porter, at the
rear of the party, was the only
one to hear her cries for help.
It could easily have been
true; and seeing that it was
the fastidious wife of Santley
who was involved, there
was every reason why it should
be. On the other hand there was
Porter and his schooldays reputa-
tion, and the obvious uneasiness
of his wife and Santley. It pro-
vided a nicely-balanced riddle
to animate conversation on the
homeward procession.
'T'HAT night, before going to
-*■ bed, my wife and I walked
down to the Santleys’ cottage
to see how Ginny was getting
along. She discussed her accident
freely, amiable with us again ;
the pain she had suffered, the
fear that she might have to lie
out in the bush all night, her
tremendous relief when Mr.
Porter heard her cries and
discovered her.
Other people kept looking in,
sympathetic, but full of a covert
expectancy, as if they hoped to
learn something from the
Santleys’ demeanor. Santley,
acutely aware of their curiosity,
held himself in tight control. He
was being most solicitous; he
kept putting hot and cold com-
presses on his wife’s ankle; the
hot ones so hot that Ginny cried
out to him to leave her alone.
He kept it up with a concen-
trated preoccupation, examining
the reddening skin with deep
interest.
It was late before the last of
the callers left, and we were
about to go when there was
another knock on the door.
Santley opened it to reveal
Porter’s face in the light, with
an expression of ready-made
concern on it.
Suddenly something odd and
terrible happened to Santley.
The control he’d kept over him-
self so long left him abruptly. His
face showed at the same moment
•fierce hatred and abject misery.
His head jerked up, and he flung
out his arms.
“You get to hell out of here,”
he screamed.
The ready-made look fell off
Porter’s face, to be instantly
replaced by one of fear. Then
immediately he disappeared into
the darkness.
We found it impossible to
resist the all-too-human impulse
to take a quick look at Ginny.
Surprise had completely un-
masked her.
We left as quickly as we could.
There was nothing more we
could do.
The Aģe of Unreason
By MAUREEN LUSON
i<m \ see, Lover,” said
Y Kitty, rubbing her chin
JL on Peter’s shoulder,
“Barbara and I have
always been more like sisters
than mother and daughter.” 1
Peter nodded absently; he
was thinking what a sweet little
woman his Kitty was, and how
no one would ever believe she
must be all of 45.
“Sure,” he murmured.
“How nasty of you, Lover,”
cried Kitty;
Peter, startled, asked what
was nasty of him.
“You insinuated that because
I’m nearly thirty-nine I couldn’t
be like a sister to a girl of six-
teen. I suppose you didn’t mean
it when you said I didn’t look a
day older than twenty-five?”
“I did, Kittykins or I
wouldn’t’ve said it. And I didn’t
insinuate anything. I wouldn’t
know how.”
“Oh, you would! I can tell.
I’m so intuitive,” whispered
Kitty. “It hurts sometimes.”
Peter made sympathetic
mumbling noises; Kitty
appeared mollified.
“You’re so uncomplicated,
Lover. But you must under-
stand I could never let you come
between me and Barbara.”
“How could I come between
you? And I thought you said
Barbara needs a father’s influ-
ence.” Peter scratched his ear
in perplexity.
“Oh, she does. A suitable
father’s influence. Sixteen’s
rather the age of unreason, you
know. Will you be prepared to
respect her feelings, and help
smooth over the conflicts of her
difficult years?”
“I don’t know about that,”
said Peter cautiously. “But I’m
very fond of kids”——
Kitty shot out of the circle
of his arms.
“Kids, indeed! Barbara isn’t
a child; she’s fully adult. And
her problems are very real and
poignant. She’s so impression-
able, she needs very careful
handling. And, of course, she
mustn’t be curbed in her grop-
ing experiments with life ; only
given loving advice when she
asks for it.”
“Blimey,” said Peter. “To
me a schoolgirl’s just a school-
girl”
“If you’d ever been a mother,
Lover, you’d know otherwise. A
schoolgirl of Barbara’s age is a
complex personality as yet
unformed, both rebellious and
defenceless. I’ve tried to be
more of a friend and confidante
to my little daughter than a
carping parent. But now I do
feel that a strong, sensible step-
father might steady her.”
Kitty dabbed a handkerchief
fetchingly at her large, blue
eyes.
“Well, I’ll do my best, Kitty-
kins.”
“I know you would, Lover.
Now, I’ll break the news to
Barbara very gently this even-
ing. And you come to dinner
tomorrow night.”
“Sure,” said Peter. “Give us
a kiss, Kitty.”
She gave him a satisfactory
kiss.
'T'HE next evening, on his way
A to dine with Kitty and his
stepdaughter-to-be, Peter stopped
and bought an outsize box of
chocolates adorned with a red-
satin cabbage of ribbons. It
would sweeten Barbara up, he
thought. It sounded as if
Barbara might be a bit of a
drawback to bliss with Kitty,
but he was prepared to endure
even the horrors of a spoilt
teenager for the sake of his little
woman.
“Barbara isn’t home yet,”
Kitty greeted him. “She’s Out
with such a nice boy.”
“Is she? Who is he?”
“Why, Lover! I haven’t an
idea. I never probe into
Barbara’s affairs—l just wait for
her to confide in me. I know
this boy’s name’s ‘Maggot,’ and
she’s terribly in love with him.
That’s all. I have to be so tactful,
you see.”
Peter didn’t see, but didn’t like
to say so.
“Well, let’s have a drink,” he
proposed. )
“Oh, Lover, you’re horrid!
You’re glad she isn’t here. You
don’t want to meet her. You’re
jealous of her before you’ve
even spoken to her or seen her.”
Kitty buried her face in her
hands.
“Now, Kittykins . . .” Peter
stroked her blonde curls.
Kitty shied away like a sus-
picious horse. “Don’t do that.
I do think you might have rried
to conceal your hostility.
Barbara will sense it at once.”
“I’m not hostile,” said Peter
patiently.
The whole house vibrated as
the front-door slammed.
“There she is!” cried Kitty,
wreathpd in a moist smile.
Footsteps clumped through
the hall, and the living-room
door opened as though impelled
by a cyclone.
Barbara slunk in, waved a
limp hand and collapsed into a
chair; she was attired in grimy
jeans, yellow bobby-sox, red
flatties and a green sweater that
looked as if she had tired of
knitting it before the top was
finished. Her face and lips were
colorless and her eyes stared
from heavily-shadowed pits.
“D arl i n g,” cried Kitty
brightly, “I want to introduce
Peter. Peter, this is my little
daughter.”
“How do you do?” said
Peter.
“Hi,” came a disembodied
voice ffiom the depths of the
armchair.
“You sick, or something?”
inquired Peter.
“No, Peter! ” Kitty glared at
him.
“You’ve never had an eyeful
of the ‘Corpse’-look before?”
drawled Barbara.
“Only,” stated Peter, “in a
winding-sheet.”
Barbara uttered a macabre
giggle: “Passable. But very
passable.”
She brought the end of her
pony-tail over her forehead and
squinted up at it. “You’re
exhaustingly verve-acious this
evening, Ma.”
“I’m so happy, darling,”
smiled Kitty.
“Oh, go die somewhere,”
Barbara told her languidly.
Kitty maintained her smile;
Peter gritted his teeth and
counted 10 very slowly.
“I’ll go and fix some drinks,”
burbled Kitty. “And you two
can get to know eadh other.”
T EFT alone with the etiolated
figure in the armchair, Peter
prowled the room, then tried:
“Did you have a nice time
this afternoon?”
“Deathly. But deathly. The
Maggot and I have parted for
ever. I’ve come crawling home
rejected.”
“You’ll make it up again, I
dare say,” said Peter. Then he
remembered the present he had
chosen so carefully. He pro-
duced the box of chocolates.
“Perhaps these will revive you.”
She managed to turn her eyes
to glance at the red-satin
cabbage.
“How awesome of you. But
they aren’t my poison. I’m
dieting. Strictly. But strictly.”
Peter dumped the box on the
floor, there being no table large
or uncluttered enough to take it.
He stood over Barbara and
demanded: “Haven’t you ever
heard of small essentials called
good manners?”
She closed her eyes wearily.
“Years ago. But years. You’re
a square, of course.”
“And what might that be?”
“A person who’s clueless over
what’s smart. But clueless.”
“I’d say you were more clue-
less in that direction. Do you
intend to have dinner in that
fancy-dress?”
“But of course. It’s so right.”
Barbara kicked off the flatties
and twirled yellow toes in
Peter’s face.
He withdrew, and from a safe
distance said: “It may be right
with you. But it isn’t with me.
And it’s an insult to your
mother. Get along and change.”
“My good Peter, you’re being
perfectly Georgian !”
“Get,” said Peter grimly.
“Before I make you.”
“But I wanted to talk to
you”
“When you come back. And,”
added Peter, “you might look
less of a little freak in a decent
dress.”
She uncoiled herself and
padded, sock-footed, to the door.
“0.K., then. But, really,
you’re corrupting me.”
WHY, where’s Barbara
gone?” asked Kitty,
coming from the dining-room
with a tray of drinks.
Peter relieved her of the tray
with alacrity; he was suddenly *
conscious that his handling of
Barbara had hardly been what
Kitty would call “careful.”
“She’s gone to change,” he
said.
Kitty spun round, amazed.
“But she never changes! What
could have made her decide to
change?”
Peter took a long draught of
his drink. “A strong, sensible,
masculine influence,” he told
her.
“Why, Lover! How wonder-
ful. Now, if ever I’ve suggested
such a thing she’s said I’m just
pruney.”
“Pruney?” Peter queried.
“Prunes - and - prisms, you
know. Lover, you are clever.
There’s a big kiss for you. Now,
while you’re having your drink
I’m just going to fix a lovely
sauce for you”——
“Don’t bother with sauces.
Stay here.” Peter’s arm went
round her.
“How nasty of you!” Kitty
flushed angrily. “You’re in-
sinuating I’ll burn the sauce and
you’ll have to eat it out of
politeness! I know I’m not a
wonderful cook, but I can make
sauce—and I’ve taken such
trouble over the dinner for the
special occasion, and . . .” She
burst into tears.
Peter, appalled, fished out his
clean handkerchief. “Now,
Kittykins, you do let that
intuition run away with you,
don’t you?”
She fled, crying: “Men are
such bumbling brutes!”
Peter poured himself another
drink, drank it and then
wondered exactly what he had
said or done to provoke his little
woman to such an outburst. He
poured a third drink, felt a great
deal better and installed himself
comfortably on the sofa.
TJE must have dozed momen-
J ~ L tarily, for when he focused
again he saw a heap of bright-
pink gauzy stuff all around his
knees. He blinked and beheld
Barbara; dazzling in a dress that
was mostly skirt, sitting at his
feet.
“My god!” ejaculated Peter.
“You’re human. Actually.”
“Definitely. Most definitely.”
She slid her elbows on his knees,
rested her chin on her hands.
“You know, Peter, I think
you’re cool.”
“I’m nothing of the kind. I’m
damned hot. Stuffy in* here,
isn’t it?” Peter mopped his
forehead.
“Cool, Peter. Hepsy. Accept-
able. I go for you as a husband
for Ma.”
“Oh. Well, thanks, Barbara.”
He grinned, then remembered
that Kitty was probably still
weeping in the kitchen. “I hope
I don’t make a mess of things,”
he ventured to this transmogri-
fied prospective stepdaughter.
“You’ll writhe through. But
I thought you’d better know the
worst.”
“Worst?” Dread clutched at
Peter. “What d’you mean?”
“You see,” said Barbara
seriously, “Ma’s not easy to
cope with. Just now. She gets
notions and flies off the handle.
She’s touchy about her age—
that’s why she will hand out this
boring sister-act to me. She
can’t bear "to think she’s pruney,
so she lets me rip. I’m the only
one in the gang that doesn’t get
hell—but hell—at home. And
parents ought to nag their kids
about make-up and boys and
manners and things. I mean, it’s
done.
“I’ve felt for some time that
Ma needed a suitable husband to
—you know —handle her with
care and so on. Respect her
feelings and sort of smooth over
the conflicts of her difficult
years. A strong, sensible type
like you. I don’t expect you’ve
cottoned-on to it yet, Peter, but
Ma’s just beginning what they
call The Age of Unreason.”
COMMUNICATION
It is the night's decay,
its loss and loss of color,
that makes the city lights
a question and an answer.
There is so much to say,
one human to another,
that day is made of nights
when we are not together,
and night is made a day. ,
The neons speak and answer
and William-street delights
if one man finds a lover.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW .


Missing Beneficiary
ESTATE OF HARRIET' ELIZABETH
HUGHES, deceased. —Whereabouts are
sought of WILLIAM ERIC NIENABER,
sometimes known as BILL CLARK, son
of the abovenamed deceased, and who
was last heard of in Broken Hill in 1920.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
such person is before the 21st day of
January 1957 to send by post to Sir
ARTHUR CAMPBELL RYMILL, of 28
Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia,
executor of the will of the deceased, full
particulars of his claim to a legacy under
her will-, otherwise he will be excluded
from the distribution of her estate. In-
serted by direction of the Supreme Court
of South Australia.—STEVENS, RYMILL,
BOUCAUT & JACOBS, Solicitors for the
Executor.
Could Be Bad
Bushfire Danger
This Summer
By DON JORDAN
SAY you are a farmer in, for
example, N. S. Wales,
standing in the shade of
your pepper-tree, and the
time is not now, but a month or
so hence.
The grass is yellow, going
brown. The twigs snap clean
when you walk on them. A piece
of bark will crumble to dust if
you rub it in your fingers.
For about two months the
water-level in the rain-gauge has
stayed well below the “average”
line. There has been a little rain
lately, but it, was light stuff and
evaporated quickly. For a week
the thermometer has been creep-
ing up; is now over 90 degrees.
The radio-announcer tells you
there is a relative humidity of
only 20 per cent, in your district.
Like him, you might not be sure
of what the statement means
exactly, but you know for sure
it has rarely been drier.
The wind is coming in from
the north-west at a steady 15
m.p.h., and it has been that way
since yesterday morning.
You go inside and open up
the daily-paper, and over near
the comics you find the weather-
map. It shows two important
things for you.
Off the east coast there is a
high-pressure system. In Bass
Strait there is a trough of low-
pressure, and it reaches up into
N.S.W.
It may be some time since
you experienced all these signs,
but you will know well enough
what they add up to: you are
probably for it. For these things
are the symptoms of the “blow-
up day”—the day when the bush
becomes explosive even to one
fragment of glowing tobacco.
The hot wind, the look of the
sky, the weather-maps, the
temperature, the humidity—and
the fool —could mean disaster for
you, and many millions of
pounds’ loss, to your State this
summer.
It could be -the death of some
people and the ruin of a lot of
others. ‘lt could be the worst
bushfire summer on record.
At the time of writing, large
tracts of the State were so green
and lush that it would be difficult
to find enough dry-stuff to boil a
billy ; but, with rain pelting on
his roof, the N.S.W. Chief Secre-
tary, Mr. Kelly, had already pro-
claimed certain bushfire-danger
areas. His advisers knew the
present green look could change
rapidly and dangerously.
An official of the Bush Fire
Committee —nerve-centre of the
State’s emergency bushfire-fight-
ing services—said of the pros-
pects:
“It will be a year of high fire-
danger—higher probably than
for a decade. This year’s fuel
build-up is the biggest fbr years.
There has been fantastic growth
throughout the State.
“Month after month from the
close of last summer there has
been rainfall well above average.
The floods broke records, and
they were followed by record
after-gr#wth.
“In the past, before the
summer months, people have
been able to put in their crops
and make their fire-breaks. This
year a lot of them haven’t been
able to get their machinery in
because of the wet —not even for
their crops. That’s going to be
another story.
“With a couple of months of
low-average rainfall the growth
would dry-out. And then, if a
fire starts, there may be no way
of stopping it —it might go from
the top to bottom of the State.
“I’d say it was a pretty formid-
able summer.”
A factor helping to make the
situation specially dangerous is
that there have been no bad fires
since the 1951-52 season, and so
there is the unburnt growth of
five summers still standing.
With nothing like this year’s
build-up of fuel, 1951-52 was a
shocking year. There were 1006
major fires. One of them alone,
at Mangopldh, near Wagga,
blackened 800,000 acres when it
burnt from January 22 to
February 11.
That was the main Mangoplah
fire —there were six other bush-
fires in the same area running at
the same time. Any of them
could have become as bad as the
main one, but the firefighters
were able to stop them in time.
Bushfire-fighters are some-
thing like surf-lifesavers on a
heavy day—they don’t just get
one rescue at a time ; they per-
form mass rescues, all taking
place at once.
Some authorities feel that the
“mass rescues” possible this
summer could spread the avail-
able firefighters so thinly that
they might not be able to cope
with them all. They
might not be able to
hold the fires.
The “Fire Control
Manual,” issued by the
Bush Fire Committee,
states that to fight this
summer’s possible fires
there will be about
50,000 members of
about 1800 volunteer
bushfire-brigades.
Each of them knows
his locality like the back
of his hand, and what a
fire might do there in
given circumstances ; he
is highly trained; he
has his own ingenuity;
so that he has some advantages
over his enemy. Spread them
out over the map, and these
volunteers form a fine line
around most of the agricultural
and grazing lands.
Additional forces include the
State’s normal fire-brigades.
They-handle mainly cities and
biggish towns, but that takes in
a lot of scrub, and so they often
fight bushfires as well as fires in
buildings. If things get really
bad outside their set urban areas,
the Board of Fire Commissioners
directs them to proceed there
and lend a hand.
Another source of firefighters
is the Forestry Commission. Its
main role is protection of the
State forests, but the best way
of protecting these is to get out
and help other firefighters tackle,
a fire heading for a forest. The
Forestry men co-operate widely
in helping volunteers fight other
fires as well.
Then there are the police. It
is not laid down anywhere that
they have to fight bushfires, but
they do. It’s not laid down any-
where that the Police Rescue
Squad has to run a mobile
canteen for firefighters when the
trees are crackling, but it does
(normally, of course, the squad is
concerned with city and near-city
cliff-rescues and the like). The
police role is mighty, but
unofficial.
In N.S.W., of the State’s 198-
million volunteer bushfire-
brigades look after some 150-
million acres, the Forestry Com-
mission 10-million acres, and the
Board of Fire, Commissioners
two-million acres.
That leaves about 36-million
acres —eight-million of it settled,
28-million of it Crown and
marginal land —without protec-
tion.
The wild, unguarded marginal
and Crown country is a grave
danger. 'A fire raging “harm-
lessly” in one of these parts can
suddenly spring out and head for
a closely-settled district on a very
wide front. A side-issue is that
smoke coming from fires on
them cuts down visibility, so
that firefighters cannot see what
“Before I start I'd like t' know a bit about your
character and background3”
is happening in areas which are
their responsibility.
The Governinent has not yet
decided who should be respons-
ible as firefighters in these Crown
and marginal lands. The “Fire
Control Manual” gives an
example of what can happen in
them :
“The disastrous Bega fires of
January, 1952, had their origin
in unprotected Crown land lying
to the west of Bega. These fires
had been burning for many
weeks and had made little pro-
gress, but on January 25 they
spread into Bega farmlands at
speeds of up to 10 miles an
hour.
“The existence of uncontrolled
fires in such areas,” the
“Manual” comments, under-
mines the campaign of fire-
prevention in settled areas.
“Until some means can be
found of reducing the incidence
of uncontrolled fire in marginal
lands the protection of neighbor-
ing improved lands is likely to
remain only partly effective.”
Members of the Bush Fire
Committee will tell you that you
cannot accurately predict much
about a bushfire. You cannot
say that there will be one, that
it will be of a certain size, or
that it will travel in a certain
direction. You can only say with
certainty that if bad conditions
come about, fires that do start
could be bad and hard to control.
You can say that this year's
potential crop of fires is a
frightening thing to consider.
And you can look into the past
for guidance, as the committee
has, to see what the most critical
times are likely to be in the
different areas.
The committee has analysed
some 3300 bushfires over 15
years. It has come up with data
which it feels should be carefully
considered by campers or anyone
else who might unwittingly set
bushfires going. From the past,
this is the likely N.S.W. picture
this year:
North Coast: Greatest danger-
period, October to January;
the worst time, November.
Hunter, Manning, Metro-
politan: October to January;
November and December.
South Coast and Illawarra:
November to February ; January.
Northern Tablelands: October
to January; November.
Central Tablelands: November
to February;. December and
January.
Southern Tablelands:
December to February ; January
and February.
North-West Slopes and Plains :
November to January ; Novem-
ber and December.
Central-West Slopes and
Plains: November to February ;
December and January.
South-West Slopes and
Riverina: December to March ;
January and February.
Far West Division: Not suffi-
cient data.
It may be, with a bit of luck,
a perfectly normal summer in
these areas ; but the firefighters
have to fiay their plans for the
alternative —the running “crown”
fires roaring along the tree-tops,
leaving the ground till later;
the spot-fires leaping six miles
or more ahead on fire-made
winds ; the charcoal landscape ;
no sleep for a week ; burns.
They have to plan so that they
can try to cope with even the
“blow-up day.” In 10 years
there would probably not be
more than 30 of these at any
particular bad point, but at least
80 per cent, of bushfires, the
bad ones, have been on “blow-
up days.” On these the tiniest
spark can start- a fire.
The Bush Fire Committee puts
it this way:
“Nobody can be sure of safety
with any fire. Wise persons do
not even smoke out of doors,
except on bare ground. Fires lit
many weeks, or even months,
before may be brought to life
under the extreme conditions.”
On past “blow-up days” things
like these have happened:
Fires have covered one acre
within one minute of starting.
Fires have jumped for many
miles, over the heads of the
men trying to fight them.
Up steep hills or in grass, the
fires have travelled at 20 m.p.h.
—an average speed could be 10
m.p.h. in grass and 6 m.p.h. in
dense timber.
In one hour from starting, a
grass fire has grown to 5000
acres and a forest fire to 2000
acres.
The danger has stayed high
when night has come. At 1 a.m.
on January 14, 1939, at Stratford
(N.S.W.), the temperature was
98 degrees and the wind 15
m.p.h. With daylight the
temperature lifted to 112 degrees
and the wind to 25 m.p.h.
The examples quoted may be
extreme ones, but unfortunately
this year’s potential could mean
a completely new list of figures.
Realising that notices stating
bluntly “Prevent Bush Fires”
could no doubt be improved on,
the Bush Fire Committee in its
report on the 1951-52 fires
analysed the known causes .this
way:
Burning-off caused 32 per cent, of
fires.
Lightning, 17 per cent.
Campfires, 11 per cent.
Smokers, 10 per cent.
Railways, 4 per cent.
Tractors and other vehicles, 4 per
cent.
All other known causes, 22 per
cent.
On the strength of that the
committee • was £ble to channel its
publicity against some of the
direct causes. This summer the
simple act of a motorist butting
his in his dashboard
ashtray, instead of tossing it out
of his window, could save
millions of pounds. The com-
mittee hopes that motorists will
take its poster on smoking to
heart.
Aimed at this “'year’s graver
danger, the general publicity and
radio-warnings will be heavier.
But once a fire starts, the
committee and firefighters are in
■ the hands of one person, and
they hope he will do the right
thing. He’s the one who first
sees a wisp of smoke rising up
in the grass or the forest.
It does not matter if he is a
firefighter or not, he has very
big responsibilities at that
moment. He should wait long
enough to get some bearings on
the fire’s position, its size, and
the Way it is heading, and then
he should not delay in getting in
touch with firefighters.
If he lives locally, he will
probably know, anyway, who
they are and where he can find
them. If he is a stranger the best
thing he can do is find a tele-
phone. The switchboard
attendant will know who to tell.


it...
1
like it!
Mi!
•i*
c
mm
4^
the
KB
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BT
TOOTH & CO LIMITED
KB. 165.13
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tomorrow (Thursday) main
Cup carnival events will be
the £4OOO Oaks Stakes (three-
year-old fillies ; mile) and the
£l5OO weight-for-age Linlithgow
Stakes (one mile).
The Oaks is usually won by a
Victorian-owned filly, but over
the past 10 years Sydney’s
Evening Peal, Water Lady, Grey
Nurse, Nizam’s Ring and Sweet
Chime have been successful.
Also, Sydney filly Session’s time
(2.301, in 1940) still stands as.
the race record.
Owner-breeders —Ken Austin
(Monte Carlo; Derby) and
A. O. Ellison (Concert Star;
Maribyrnong Plate) —won the
two principal events on the open-
ing day of the Cup meeting.
Ellison didn’t place Concert Star
in the yearling-ring, which has
proved keen judgment, as she is
the present, best two-year-old
filly and unbeaten in three
starts, but Austin would have
sold Monte Carlo as a yearling
at the New Zealand sales for
2000gns. had that figure been
reached. When bidding ceased
at 1500gns. Austin declined T. J.
Smith’s final nod and also a
further offer of 250gns., refusing
to budge below his reserve. How
lucky for himself!
Monte Carlo, dual Derby
winner—he had an easy task at
Flemington on Saturday—has
now earned £14,628 in stakes,
and will rest till autumn.
Though the Hotham Handicap
triple dead-heat was unprece-
dented in photo-finishes in Aus-
tralia, there was one—the only
prior instance —at the Aqueduct
(U.S.) meeting on June 10,
1944, when Wait-a-bit, Bossuet
and Brownie crossed the line
together. Triple dead-heats
occurred in various parts of the
world when judges relied on
their eyesight, and maybe some
of those results would have been
different under today’s system.
According to old records, four
horses ran a dead-heat for first
at Hove (Eng.) in 1851 —and in
a steeplechase at that, which
seems hard to swallow. Also,
at Toowoomba (Q.) in June,
1897, there was a dead-heat for
first by four runners in the
Shorts Handicap (six furlongs).
That judge must have had keen
eyesight, too, or maybe a sense
of humor. The Flemington
triple dead-heat was exciting for
the public but for pay-out clerks
a race to remember. They spent
hours on the job.
Up to last Saturday Redcraze
had strung together a series of
wins in the best handicap and
weight-for-age company and
had been glamor horse of the
winter and spring racing. Then
his stocks slumped. Punters sent
him out at 2 to 1 on for the
Mackinnon Stakes, only to see
him downed by 40-to-l Sir
William. But it wasn’t the horse’s
fault. Redcraze’s jockey, like
the riders of the other beaten
horses, obviously believed Sir
William, piloted by heady
Adelaide horseman Pat Glennon,
would quickly peter-out after
setting up a lead of 25 lengths
at one stage of the mile-and-a-
quarter. Full credit must be
given Glennon, who fairly
“pinched” the £2OOO contest.
Glennon’s long list of wins
includes a Melbourne Cup, on
Comic Court.
Blue Meadow, stylish winner
last Saturday at Rosehill’s two-
year-old Maiden Stakes for
fillies, carries the Evening Peal
colors, and her owners, Mr. and
Mrs. R. J. White, hope she will
turn out as good a stayer. The
filly is from a half-sister to
Pride of Egypt, dual St. Leger
winner and also winner of the
Victoria Derby. She is by
Emperor (imp.) from First Flash
by A 1 Dakhil (imp.) from Civic
Pride, winner of the A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes. Lionel Israel,
whose wife won the Rosehill
Handicap with Belbeiys, bred
Blue Meadow at his Segenhoe
stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
Barricade, a recent provincial
winner, and Gold Stakes, who
cleared out with Rosehill’s two-
year-old Maiden for colts and'
geldings, are half-brothers. Their
dam is High Stakes, a Brueghel
(It.) mare from Velia by Moabite
(imp.). Barricade is by Stockade
(imp.), while Gold Stakes is a
son of Star Kingdom (imp.).
Ted Hush is trainer of Gold
Stakes for J. K. Thompson and
G. Moses. Hush also trains
Nile River, runaway winner of
Rosehill’s Second Maiden
Handicap. Nile River is a three-
year-old Nilo (imp.) gelding
from Victrix by Denis Boy
(imp.).
Dr. and Mrs. Tom Tidswell,
newcomers as owners to racing,
didn’t take long to enjoy the
thrill of a first win. Only a few
weeks back they purchased for
SOOgns. the three-year-old filly
Flag Top, who had been placed
in races, and who duly won for
them Rosehill’s Second Parra-
matta Stakes. She. scored
“Been laid-up, eh ?”
stylishly, and was ridden a clever
race by R. George, one of
Sydney’s best apprentices. Flag
Top, bred at Glamis Park stud,
North Richmond, is a daughter
of Brueghel (It.) from Display
by Constant Son (imp.).
An interesting horse competed
with success at Rosehill when
N.S.W. country galloper Ava-
chase—his opponents did!
won the Novice mile-and-a-
quarter. The four - year - old
Avalanche (imp.) gelding has an
unbeaten record of four wins
and a dead-heat for first.
He didn’t start racing until mid-
September. Raced by C. A. and
C. P. Carrigan, of Boggabri, and
trained by A. R. Gore, he’s from
Janine by Dark Lover (imp.)
from Jean Rylestone by Fern-
kloof (imp.).
Belbeiys had his first success
since joining Leo O’Sullivan’s
stables. It would seem that
Belbeiys is fond of his own
company; he races best when
sooled along to take the lead in
the first few strides. He set up a
Sir William lead in the Rosehill
Handicap, and was being eased-
up in the final furlong or so.
Belbeiys had been placed at two
prior starts, but had faded in the
final stages when others closed
on him. He was a top three-year-
old, but then lost form. He’s
now five, and there should be
more wins from him while he’s
again at his top.
When offered as a yearling at
the \Randwick sales last year
Royal Renown didn’t reach the
reserve, and at 200gns. was
passed-in. Bred by M. V. Point
at Sledmere stud (N.S.W.), she
is by Royal Empire (imp.) from
Adjudicatrix (imp.). The three-
year-old filly very easily won
the First Maiden at Rosehill.
* * *
At Harold Park on Friday
night seven candidates -by -
invitation went away behind an
experimental American - type
moving-barrier, designed by
Douglas and Gordon McMillan
(sons of veteran trainer Sutton
McMillan). The barrier is set
on the back of a utility-truck,
which the field follows from
some distance before the
starting-point up to the start,
where, with the horses going at
top speed, the barrier folds up
into two wings and the truck
races away from the field and
off the track.
On Friday, with one scratch-
ing, only seven started across
the track, and the outside horse,
Marine Dealer, looked cramped
for room. Being the toeiest, he
also got into bother when he
twice raced up to and hit the
slow-moving barrier, broke-up,
chased and caught it again,
eventually to race wide of the
folding wings and get a break of
two or three lengths on the field.
Defiance, a normally good
beginner, pulled too hard behind
the slow pace, and broke, losing
all chance. Young Wexford,
driven by Sutton McMillan, also
broke-up and lost ground.
Mineral Spring won the race
from Van Hall and Brilliant
Moon, proving a good horse is
always a good horse —any dis-
tance, any conditions. He ran
the mile in 2.1 f; Uncle Joe’s
track-record (from a standing-
start) is 2.4 f.
After the race the course-
broadcaster made the mistake of
praising the barrier, without
getting much further than “I’m
sure you’ll all agree with me,”
when his voice was lost in a
chorus of “boos” from all round
the course. Certainly improve-
ments will be on the first
trial, but they will need to be
substantial. As it is, the barrier
doesn’t seem to be much more
than an aid to bad horses and
bad trainers.
4- 4
The Bank of New South Wales
has produced an “Olympic
Games Mini-Diary,” a compre-
hensive pocket - size 80 - page
booklet that takes in about as
much as a mini-diary could on
the Games. It contains facts on
the Games (Ancient and
Modern); Olympic records;
explanations on some of the
principles and rules of the
Games, Olympic medals and
diplomas, the Olympic
ceremonies and the Olympic
flag; photos and diagrams of
the various venues; and with a
map of Melbourne thrown in.
Also, there’s a complete diary
of the Games events and
associate functions. The book-
let can be obtained free from
any branch of the bank.
* * *
An “international” athletic
carnival, one of several held or
to be held in various places
before and after the Games, was
staged in Sydney on Saturday,
on a gusty, unpleasant day.
What was expected to be the
highlight was the mile race, but
it was run in disappointingly
slow time, 4min. 11.8 sec
Bailey defeating Pirie without
their contest ever meriting the
description “tense.” The
Nigerian and Jamaican athletes
gave the meet most of the
international flavor; one who
showed out was Jamaican Ernly
Haisley, who won the high-
jump. N.S.W. shot-putter Peter
Hanlin regained his Australian
record, by |in. (to 52ft. 7in.)
from Victorian Barry Donath’s
distance —the two take it in
turns to hold the record. (But
neither of them, unfortunately,
will be in the event with
American Parry O’Brien at the
Games.)
* * *
Breaking a swimming
mile,” Murray Rose in the
Olympic swimming-trials covered
1500-metres in 17min. 59.55ec.,
the first ever to swim the dis-
tance in less than 18min. Rose
thus takes the world-record off
American George Breen, who
swam it in 18min. s.9sec. A
couple of days before Rose’s
swim Breen had taken a world-
record (for 880yds.) off him.
* * *
Although, as noted in B.
17/10/’56, veteran wrestler Dick
Garrard was\ at first left out,
through injury, of Australia’s
wrestling-team for the Games,
he has now been added, to repre-
sent in the lightweight Graeco-
Roman division. His inclusion
followed the withdrawal of a
non-naturalised New Australian,
one of four Naussie wrestlers
originally selected but later for
that reason declared ineligible.
Garrard thus joins sculler Merv
Wood to become the second
Australian chosen for his fourth
Olympiad.
* * *
Last year’s singles-final of the
Queensland tennis-titles, with
Hoad not playing, was between
Rosewall and Cooper, with
Rosewall winning *a hard-fought
four-set game. This year’s final
was expected to be between
Hoad and Rosewall, but instead
Cooper was in it again, this time
to win/ First he eliminated
Rosewall in a marathon five-set
semi-final, then beat Hoad in the
final, 5-7, 7-5, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4.
Cooper must now rank as. our
No. 3 player, able, as he has
shown, to beat the “twins” on
occasion. The doubles-title was
won, easily all the way through,
by Hoad and Rosewall, who
have collected most of the
world’s major doubles-titles this
year.
* * *
The first Sheffield Shield
match of 1956-57, played in
Brisbane and resulting in N.S.W.
defeating Queensland by 20 runs
on the first innings, gave a
bright start to the Shield
season. It may have had a close
finish had rain not interfered
with play on the last day. Last
Friday, in Adelaide, S.A. and
W.A. began their match, and
this Friday it’s Victoria and
W.A. in Melbourne. Two
omissions from Victoria’s side
worth noting are spinner Jack
Hill, last season in the running
to tour England, and fast-bowler
John Power, once hailed as
“Lindwall’s successor” —a suc-
cessor who is still not known for
a certainty. Pat Crawford, per-
haps, though he did nothing
startling in England.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES— In Divorce.
TO CLIFFORD NORMAN PRITCHARD
late of Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELLEN PRITCHARD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3219 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th of January 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
SYDNEY H. MORAY & CO., Solicitors, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDITH FLORENCESTINE CAIN late
of 84a Dudley Street, Coogee.—TAKE
NOTICE that WILFRED CHARLES CAIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3517
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 9th January 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ARTHUR H. GARRATT & CO.,
Solicitors, of 18 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST VIVIAN TRELOAR late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that NOLA
RUBY TRELOAR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2655 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Bth January, 1957,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from SYDNEY S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, Hunter Street, Newcastle West,
or MESSRS. M. A. MURRAY &
WELLER, Solicitors, of 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO ANDREW ALEXANDER SHAW, for-
merly of 18 Potter Street, Black Rock,
Victoria. —YOU ARE REQUESTED to
communicate immediately with MESSRS.
KIDDLE, BRIGGS & WILLOX, of 15
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for
THE NORWICH UNION FIRE IN-
SURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED, in rela-
tion to a motor accident which occurred
at the comer of St. Kilda Road and
Grant Street, South Melbourne, on the
10th day of April,; 1953, and in
relation to the Company’s responsibility
to insure you in regard thereto.
Laurie Butler as a bewildered
curate his range of facial
expressions was excellent.
Director John Gardiner said in
his curtain-speech that the St.
George district needs a good
repertory company. This one
certainly shows promise.
Talkies
“Walk into Paradise” (Sydney
St. James): Produced by Chips
Rafferty and directed by Lee
Robinson, this story about a
patrol’s expedition to a remote
New Guinea valley to prepare an
airstrip for oil-exploration is a
first-rate piece of craftsmanship,
with the accents on beautiful
color-photography and the details
of native village-life, cere-
monials and superstitions. There
are several striking sequences;
much is made of the varying
reactions of wild natives to the
incursion of the first white men
in their area; and two talented
French players, Frangoise
Cristophe and Pierre Cressoy,
supply the slight love-interest.
Chips Rafferty, as the patrol-
officer, looks suitably tough and
hard-bitten.
* * • *
“The Solid Gold Cadillac”
(Sydney State): Every chairman
of directors of a public company
which is not doing too well has
one abiding dread—the tenacious
woman shareholder who asks
awkward questions and keeps
on asking ’em. She can’t be
silenced and can’t be tossed out.
Columbia has made a witty
comedy on this theme, with Judy
Holliday owning 10 shares in
a large corporation whose
directors are helping themselves
to colossal salaries and expenses.
To shut her up they offer her a
sinecure on the staff, upon which
the executive fun starts in
earnest. Paul Douglas again
teams with the comedienne —
this time as an ex-director who
leaves his cushy Government job
in Washington to help in the
crusade and clean-up.
* * * *
“French Can Can” (Sydney
Savoy): This French film uses
the story of the founding of the
Moulin Rouge as.a thin thread
on which to hang as glittering an
extravaganza as has come out
of France. Full offcolor and
vitality, and with swirling
movement and keenly drawn
characters, it has been directed
with warmth and brilliance by
Jean Renoir.
* * * *
“The Trouble With Harry’*
(Sydney Prince Edward): The
trouble, of course, is that he is
dead, presumed to have been
bumped-off by any one of half-
a-dozen suspects with motives.
So, all in the one day and night,
Harry is planted and unplanted
by each in turn or in company,
according to whether develop-
ments prescribe this as the safer
way. Only Alfred Hitchcock
could wring rattling good
comedy out of suspected murder
and keep the suspense taut at the
same time. He is well served
with a cast headed by veteran
Edmund Gwenn, as a retired sea-
dog, Shirley Maclaine as the
widow, and John Forsythe, as a
modernist dauber —all prime
suspects.
* * * *
“Tiger in the Sky” (Sydney
Plaza): Sentimental piece about
a U.S. jet-fighter ace in Korea,
with June Allyson as the little
woman who waits for him tear-
eyed after each spin aloft. The
brief battle-scenes are sketchy
and unconvincing.
* * * *
“Bhowani Junction” (Sydney
St. James): The story of an
Angld-Indian girl’s indecision as
to which of her two worlds she
belongs, and the pull of con-
flicting loyalties in an India
from which the British are about
to withdraw. It is unfolded in
a series of dramatic episodes
against a background of passive-
resistance which turns to mob-
violence inflamed by Communist
agents - provocateur. Director
George Cukor handles the
enormous crowd-scenes with
conviction and Ava Gardner has
never done better work than this
portrayal of the daughter of a
Hindu woman and an English
enginedriver. Stewart Granger
gives her strong support, and
there is excellent work by several
Hindus speaking perfect English.
* * * *
“Walk the Proud Land”
(Sydney Lyceum): About a high-
minded young American with
the idea that Apaches and whites
can rub along together instead of
trying to rub each other out.
Despite suspicion by both Army
and braves, he keeps plugging
away slowly to engender good-
will —all too slowly as worked-
out in this film. The promoter
of brotherhood demonstrates
what a glutton he is for punish-
ment by trying simultaneously
to placate a jealous wife and an
Apache lass who follows him
about with dog-like devotion.
Audie Murphy is the paragon.
* * * *
“Pacific Destiny” (Sydney
Esquire): Waving palm-trees and
hips, blue lagoons and sun-
drenched beaches, and mobs of
cheerful-looking Fijians, all
photographed in nice color,
decorate this futile story of a
young greenhorn colonial
administrator who takes up
residence on an island to
straighten-out some inter-tribal
trouble. Denholm Elliott and
Susan Stephen do nothing to
help.
♦ * * *
“The Unguarded Moment”
(Sydney Capitol): Intelligent
handling of the story of a vicious
young college-student and his
attempted seduction of a music-
teacher. Esther Williams in her
first dramatic role never gets out
of her depth.
* * * *
“Josephine and Men” (Sydney
Embassy): An attractive light-
weight comedy about an impul-
sive girl’s fluctuations between a
wealthy businessman and
an impoverished playwright.
Sparked by better-than-usual
dialogue, it has a fair quota of
piquant situations as well as
the girlish charm of Glynis
Johns. Peter Finch is the
temperamental playwright, and
Jack Buchanan a blase, cynical
bachelor —both good.
* * * *
“Storm Over the Nile” (Syd-
ney Mayfair): So awfully ballay
English and noblesse oblige,
what! Jolly old ex-regimental
wallahs nevah take their soup-
and-fish unless they’re wearin’
’em as well; old General posi-
tively frightful bore on his
Omdurman days ; all about bally
subaltern given emblems of
cowardice (A. E. W. Mason’s
Four Feathers, don’tcher know)
because blighter resigns corn-
mission just before jolly old
regiment sails for Sudan.
So silly ass rushes off to
Egypt, wraps jolly tent around
himself, chews gum-arabic and
all that sort of thing and becomes
native so he can heroically rescue
old fellow-officers who had
condemned him. Absolutely
unbelievable indestructibility of
the fellow, vindicated perfectly,
y’ know. Poor devil gets back
girl who jilted him and has to
listen again to her jolly bore
of a General-father. Dashed silly
and all that, but frightfully
exciting, what!
Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited
Head Office:
“Bradmill House,” Cnr. Missenden and Parramatta Roads,
CAMPERDOWN.
Speech of Mr. S. M. Wreford (Chairman) to Shareholders
at the Twenty-ninth Annual General Meeting of Bradford
Cotton Mills Limited, held on the 25th October, 1956,
at 12 o’clock noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Printed copies of the Financial State-
ments and Report of the Directors re-
lating thereto have already been sent
to all Shareholders, and, therefore, with
ytmr permission, I propose to take them
as read.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Trading was maintained at a satisfac-
tory level throughout the year. The
actual value of sales showed a substantial
increase over the 1956 figure.
The net profit, as shown in the Con-
solidated Accounts of the Company before
provision for taxation, was £783,948,
compared with a profit of £748,207 for
the year ended 30th June, 1955 (,which
included a dividend of £34,113 from
Burlington Mills (Australia) Limited).
As a result of the increase in Com-
pany taxation imposed by the Common-
wealth Government this year, it was
necessary to provide £41,682 in addition
to what we would have had to pay under
the old rates. After making the neces-
sary taxation provision, the comparative
profit figures are £470,230 compared
with £469,672 for the previous year.
These results were achieved in a year
in which importations of the style of
fabrics produced by this Company were
actually increased in volume, a matter
to which I will refer later.
I would like to comment on the fol-
lowing items contained in the Consoli-
dated Statement of Assets and Liabilities
of Bradford Cotton Mills Limited and its
wholly owned Subsidiary Companies as
at the 30th June, 1956.
The value of Plant, Machinery, Furni-
ture, Fittings, etc., at £5,194,908 com-
pares with £4,683,059 at 30th June,
1955. However, the total value of new
Plant acquired during the year, all paid
for from current resources, was approxi-
mately £550,000.
It will interest Shareholders to know
that over the last five years, expenditure
on Plant, which we have provided with-
out raising Capital for the purchases,
totalled £2,094,756.
Naturally, there is some difference as
between our Plants from the newest to
the oldest. We have no producing Plants,
however, which can be regarded as being
out of date, and, generally, they are
comparable with Plants doing similar
work in other parts of the world. The
best of them are unsurpassed by Euro-
pean and United Kingdom Mills when
due regard is had to the limitations as
to size and, generally, the necessity for
variety of production as against stan-
dardisation.
Depreciation written off, amounting to
£279,703, compares with £277,345 pro-
vided last year, and it brings our total
depreciation reserves to approximately
£2,210,382.
With the new Plant and Equipment
which have been purchased and installed
during the year,* our Plants have been
maintained in first-class condition, and,
in the light of this, the reserve for
depreciation is quite substantial.
It will be seen that the net increase
for the value of Plant and Machinery,
etc., after allowing for depreciation, is
£290,847.
Investments at £490,758 show an in-
crease of approximately £107,000 to
the year. Practically the whole of this
increase represents our interest in Chatta-
nooga Tufted Carpets Pty. Limited, in
which we have a half-interest in conjunc-
tion with Felt and Textiles (Australia)
Limited.
' There is a reduction in stocks, stores
and spares on hand, the figure of
£2,361,677 being £216,095 less than
last year’s figures.
Trade Debtors at £1,346,624 are only
slightly ahead of last year’s total.
On the liabilities side, there is not
very much movement requiring comment.
It will be seen that employees have in-
creased their holdings in the share capital
of the Company by nearly £25,000.
(The mortgage loan has been reduced by
£25,000.)
Our liability to the Bank is shown at
£1,157,814, a figure which is £368,000
higher than a year ago. However, Sundry
Creditors, have been reduced by about
£322,000, and, during the period we
financed from current resources, capital
expenditure of approximately £713,000.
This amount comprises Plant and
Machinery, £550,000, Buildings, Furni-
ture, Fittings and miscellaneous Capital
items £56,000, and Investments
£107,000,
Since the 30th June, the Bank Over-
draft has been reduced by approximately
£236,000.
IMPORTS
Earlier in my Address, I mentioned
that our results were achieved in the
face of competition from imports. De-
spite the Import Licensing Regulations,
imports of piece goods of the kinds
manufactured by this Company show no
falling-off compared with , the previous
period.
Figures published by the Common-
wealth Statistician show that the im-
ports of Canvas and Duck in the year
ended June, 1956, were about the same
as for the previous year—B,o43,Blo square
yards—as against 8,437,526 square yards
in 1955. However, imports of Denims
in 1966 at 2,172,805 square yards is a
substantial increase over the 1955 figure
of 1,493,406 square yards.
Imports of Drills, Dungarees and Jeans
in 1956 of 5,057,885 square yards showed
a token reduction of approximately
416,000 square yards as compared with
the previous year, but Cotton Furnish-
ings and Upholstery fabrics showed a
marked increase in 1956 when 1,221,111
square yards were imported compared with
684,929 square yards in the year ended
30th June, 1955.
As is mentioned in the Report of the
Board of Directors which accompanied
the Financial Statement, incentive pay-
ments, which are related to production,
are in full operation in all our Mills;
these permit of the operators earning a
bonus up to 33% qver and above the
Award rates. In some instances, the
earnings actually exceed this figure.
The total value of sales increased nearly
10%. In spite of some increased wage
payments, the value of the wages and
salaries per £ of sales, showed a reduc-
tion.
Our total wage payments exceeded
£2,000,000, whilst payments for Income
Tax and Pay Roll Tax totalled. £365,000.
It is interesting to compare these
figures with Dividends paid to Share-
holders, which totalled £371,000.
TARIFF
In my Address last year, I mentioned
that, as the result of a ruling by the
Customs Department with which
Industry in Australia was in complete
disagreement—the Commonwealth Tariff
Board made a further enquiry into the
application of duties to Canvas and Duck.
I referred also to the substantial loss of
our Denim business due to a ruling by the
Customs Department and the subsequent
submission of the item relating to Drills,
Denims, etc., to the Tariff Board for
investigation, and mentioned that no re-
ports had yet been submitted by the Tariff
Board as a result of these enquiries.
The enquiry relating to Canvas and
Duck was completed on 12th September,
1955, and the Drills and Denims Case
was completed on 28rd of the same
month. We now find, more than a year
after the completion of the taking of
sworn evidence, we still have no indi-
cation of when the Government will
deal with the reports.
A further enquiry, into Furnishings
and Upholstery fabrics —of vital conse-
quence to Burlington Mills (Australia)
Limited —was completed on 23rd March,
1955, but, as yet, the nature of the
recommendations has not been made
public.
CHATTANOOGA TUFTED
CARPETS PTY. LIMITED
New methods for the production of
carpets in the United States have been
developed over recent years. Machines
doing this work produce the comparable
material at many times the rate of the
orthodox carpet looms. These carpets
are generally referred to as “Tufted”
Carpets. In appearance they do not
differ from comparable carpets woven
on carpet looms.
This type of carpet now accounts for
more than half the carpets sold in the
United States. The pile can be made
either from cotton, rayon, nylon, wool,
or any combination of these fibres. As
manufacturers of cotton yarn and rayon
yarn," Bradford Cotton Mills became
interested in the supplying of raw
materials for this class of production,
and, after negotiations, it was decided to
join with Felt and Textiles in the setting-
up of a Tufted Carpet Plant to produce
these goods.
The Company was fortunate in being
able to make satisfactory arrangements
for a Service Agreement with Cabin
Craft Inc., which it is understood is
the leading Company producing Tufted
Carpets in the United States.
During the year the necessary machinery
was purchased, installed and brought
into operation; it is now just coming
into full production, and it is expected
that this Mill will supply a substantial
proportion of the Carpet requirements
of Australia during the current year.
, It is the first Plant of its kind in
Australia and has been brought into
operation at about the same time as
Tufted Carpet Companies are opening
up in the United Kingdom and Europe.
Bradford Cotton Mills is supplying
the raw material in the «hape of cotton
and rayon yarns.
GENERAL
•We are passing through a period in
which the economy of the whole country
is subjected to’ artificial restrictions and
in which weekly wages and other expenses
continue to rise. Higher charges for
water, electricity, rail and road freights
add to the problem of maintaining com-
petitive selling prices.
By maintaining our Mills in first-class
condition and equipping them with
modern machinery and by the application
of improved production methods and in-
centive schemes, our Company is well
equipped to prosper in the months that
lie ahead.
Every year we send some of our Execu-
tives overseas, so enabling the Company
to keep abreast of the latest developments
in the leading Textile countries of the
world, and new methods and policies are
constantly being adopted.
Currently, sales are continuing at a
satisfactory level, but, in the present
uncertain circumstances, it is difficult to
forecast how long this will continue.
Restrictions being placed on many Indus-
tries, which result in falling-off in pro-
duction must, in turn, affect the country
as a whole, and we cannot expect to
escape. ,
As against this, a continuation of
Import restrictions may ultimately result
in our gaining additional local business.
We would hope that the one will balance
the other —but, it is impossible to make
any reliable forecast.
THE TRAINING OF TEXTILE
TECHNOLOGISTS •
The Australian Textile Industry gener-
ally, particularly the Cotton Textile
Industry, is very severely handicapped in
the operations owing to its inability to
get highly trained technical and techno-
logical staff in Australia. These have
to be continually brought from overseas
at considerable expense.
It is very pleasing to note that the
New South Wales University of Tech-
nology will commence, in February, 1957,
four-year full-time Courses in Textile
Technology leading to the degrees of
B.Sc. (Ordinary and Honours) in:—
Textile Chemistry
Textile Physics
Textile Engineering
Textile Manufacture
Facilities are also to be provided for
post-graduate research leading to the
degrees of M.Sc. and Ph.D.
These will be the first University
Courses in Textile Technology in the
Southern Hemisphere.
These Courses aim to meet the very
great demand for Textile Technologists
in all Sections of the Textile Industry,
and in Textile Research and development
organisations.
It will enable men and women to fill
positions of executive responsibility in
Industry, and will improve the manufac-
turing efficiency and quality of textile
products and so aid the economic develop-
ment of Australia.
Because of its importance to Australia,
the Industry generally and particularly
to Bradford Cotton Mills, the Company
has made a • substantial donation to an
extent which will enable a Scholarship to
be taken up by properly qualified students
each year for the next four years.
Many other Textile Companies are
also making contributions which have
some relation to the size of their under-
taking.
BURLINGTON MILLS (AUS-
TRALIA) LIMITED
The Annual Meeting of Burlington Mills
(Australia) Limited was held this moni-
ing, prior to this Meeting, and copies
of the Financial Statements for the year
ended 30th June, 1956, have been sup-
plied already to all Shareholders of Brad-
ford Cotton Mills Limited.
The result of the year’s operations
shows a substantial improvement to that
of the previous period, and it is hoped
that a satisfactory result will follow from
the current year’s operations. Orders in
hand are very satisfactory, and there is
every indication that further orders will
come in at a satisfactory rate.
THE MANAGING
MR. R. J. WEBSTER, C.B.E, M.C.
It was with extreme pleasure that his
Co-Directors, Shareholders of the Com-
pany, employees and the Commercial
Community of our country, learned of
the honour (Commander of the Order of
the British Empire) bestowed on Mr.
Webster by Her Majesty the Queen.
In recognition of his services to the
Commonwealth, Industry in general and
the Textile Manufacturing Trade in par-
ticular, this well merited award was
sincerely welcomed throughout the
business world.
Of interest to all Shareholders is that
1956 marks the twentieth year of Mr.
Webster’s association with your Company
as Managing Director. It is no secret
that the success and sound growth of the
Company are largely due to his ability,
driving force and perhaps, above all, to
the loyalty and devotion which he com-
mands from his staff.
I am sure that you all agree with your
Board in paying this tribute to Mr.
Webster and join with us in the wish
that he may continue in office for many
years to come.
STAFF
Your Board desires to place on record
their thanks and recognition for the work
done during the year by its loyal Staff-
We appreciate the contribution they have
made towards the success of the Com-
pany.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS LIMITED.
S. M. WREFORD.
Chairman.
Sydney, 25th October. 1956.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Your brain's
unrealised powers
Do you know that your - brain
eannot tire no matter how hard
you work it . . . that age need
not prevent learning . . . that
exercise improves the brain . . .
that reasoning and memorising
ability gain with practice 1 Nov-
ember Reader’s Digest brings
you seven important facts
turned up by recent research.
Then there's “How to sharpen
your judgment”; “How wonder-
ful you are”; “What your sense
of humour tells about you”;
“Britain’s indestructible ‘Old
Man’ ”; “The sub that wouldn’t
stay down” a wealth of
absorbing articles condensed
from leading magazines and
current books in November
Reader’s Digest. Only two shil-
lings, at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get your copy today.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ATOMIC POWER
“ Nothing, after the Queen opened Calder Hall, will
ever be the ■same again—not in atomic energy, not in
Britain’s economy, not in the world. Eleven years after
atom-bombs were dropped on Japan, 14 years after
Enrico Fermi proved his theory of controllable chain-
reaction, and almost a century after the world began to
exploit oil as its newest primary fuel, the first
atomic power-station has come into operation. The'list
of currently usable sources of energy is not a long one:
timber, coal, petroleum, water, perhaps wind —and now
uranium.
“The plant itself is the final, crowning experiment of
a decade of research, and the technicians are already
preoccupied with newer, untried atomic systems evolving
in the laboratories where Calder Hall first took shape.
For engineers and for industry, Calder Hall is a beginning,
the formal inauguration of what will become an atomic
power network stretching across Britain and ultimately
across the world.” —London “Economist .”
*The opening of Britain’s Calder
Hall “the first commercial
station in the world to produce
power by fission on an industrial
scale” (“N. Y. Times”) —prob-
ably marks the beginning of a
revolution of infinitely greater
consequences than the East
European and Middle East up-
heavals . which have temporarily
overshadowed it.
The main contributing factors
to Britain’s lead in this field
have been economic necessity,
scientific genius and political
co-operation. As London “Spec-
tator” comments, “ten years ago
there was nothing, except a small
team of brilliant scientists”:
“Today there are the immense
fuel-factories, and three further
power-stations under construc-
tion of the Calder Hall pattern.
Ten years hence we may generate
enough power from the atom
to save over 10-million tons of
coal a year, more than a quarter
of the amount burned in coal-
fired stations last year.”
Other typical press-comment:
London “News Chronicle”:
“The destructive power of
Russian and American bombs is
greater, but it is the British
citizen who will have his home
lit by atomic energy first.
“What is the explanation of
this success? First, of course, is
the genius of our scientists. In
pure research this country is un-
equalled and Sir John Cockcroft
has seen to it that talent has
had a free rein.
“Secondly there has been
political agreement on the
programme and its urgency. It
has been spared the economy
cuts and squeezes of other enter-
prises. Labor and Conservative
Administrations can claim credit
for their grasp of the importance
of the work at Harwell.
“Freed from the disabling con-
troversies which have marred the
work of nationalised industries,
the Atomic Energy Authority has
been able to organise its own
programme. The dead hand of
bureaucracy has weighed less
heavily on it because the Act of
1954 gave it a special status.
This succeeded in reconciling
the need for Parliamentary con-
trol and Ministerial responsi-
A
bility, with flexible and secret
administration.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “The
discovery that the energy which
can be extracted from one
bucketful of uranium is the same
as that which is at present got
from several hundred trains
loaded with coal means that all
kinds of countries which have
had to go without fuel —and
therefore industry, because they
could not import it except at
exorbitant costs —can now get it.
For us [Britain] atomic energy
has done away with our almost
exclusive dependence on fuels
which have to be dug from the
ground and which are therefore
bound to become more difficult
to get as time goes on. In other
words, it offers us the chance of
keeping up with those other
industrial economies wjiich are
far better placed for coal and oil
than we are ourselves.”
The- same : “The demand for
fuel in Britain has now well
outstripped what the collieries
can supply, and will increase still
more as industry continues to
develop. Since the war an extra
six-million tons of coal, or its
equivalent in other fuels, have
been used in the country every
year. They have been needed to
keep industry going, and thereby
to raise living-standards and to
win a little foreign exchange. If
these trends are to continue we
shall need still more fuel —six-
million tons a year extra is not
a bad estimate. This means that
in 30 years consumption of fuel
in this country will approximately
double itself.”
The same: “Britain is ahead
of other countries in the
development of atomic power
for one simple reason: she has
been pushed there by sheer
economic necessity. But all the
signs are that similar shortages
of fossil fuel will stimulate the
same kind of development in
other countries in a few years.
“In the United States and the
Soviet Union it is likely that full
dependence on atomic power will
be still further delayed. This is
because of the ample supplies of
fossil fuels —oil and coal—which
are available there. And in both
countries large amounts of
water-power are still available
to be exploited. Both countries
are actually building atomic
power-stations, but there is no
clear evidence that they are
economically worth while, except
in certain areas where the cost
of transporting conventional
fuels is high.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “What
frightens us is that Britain,
having gained an immense
advantage by her brains and
energies, will allow it to be
snatched away. An American
businessman, speaking in private
to British scientists recently,
said: ‘You are the most inventive
people in the world. You are
much better than we are at
producing new ideas. But we are
much better at exploiting them.’
“It is true. The Americans
have the knack of getting on
with things, of thinking big
and building Big. The atom was
first split in Britain, but the U.S.
produced the first atomic bombs.
We must not think only of
America, either, in this con-
nection. More than one giant
German enterprise originated in
the brain of a British inventor.
“Britain should concentrate
her resources. She should think,
again before spending a whole
£lOOO million on the coalmines.
She should be training more and
more scientists, like the Russians
and Americans.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It [Calder Hall] has been de-
signed and constructed in half
the time usually taken for a
conventional generating-station.
And the novel problems of its
construction have been solved as
building proceeded—without the
guidance, normally thought
necessary in such an undertaking,
of a pilot-plant. So successful,
indeed, have the atomic engineers
N. Y. “Herald Tribune ”
HOT POTATO
been in solving these problems
that previous estimates of the
amount of power to be produced
by the first atomic stations have
gone to the winds.”
* * *
London "Financial Times”:
“Eighteen months qgo it was
estimated that by 1965 nuclear
power would be producing elec-
tricity at a rate equivalent to
five- or six-million tons of coal.
Since that calculation was made
it has become apparent that each
of the stations will produce
about twice as much electricity
as was expected at that time. In
addition the number of stations
will be increased.
“That would in itself suggest
that these stations will produce
a coal-equivalent of 15- to 18-
million tons. Yet there is no
reason at all to think that the
rate of technological and
scientific advance has slowed
down. We cannot now be sure
that present estimates will not
have to be revised equally
drastically in 18 months’ time.”
The same: “Different factors
affect the position of the less-
highly - industrialised Powers.
Nuclear power requires a high
load-factor. It has a high
capital- and a low running-cost.
For the needs of a concentrated
industrial economy nuclear
power is ’ideal, though it may
for a very long time work in
harness with standby-plant fired
by coal. For the needs of under-
developed areas the high capital-
cost is excessive because the
high load-factor can only with
difficulty be achieved. That does
not mean that nuclear power will
not have an application in these
territories, but it does mean that
its advantages are not as great,
at as early a stage, in those
countries as they are in Great
Britain.”
Japan
Commenting on the 16-day
goodwill visit to Japan by Lord
Selkirk, Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster, the Tokio
correspondent of London
“Economist” notes that the
visitor’s mission was rather
complicated by some British
papers reminding him that
Japanese exports were “ruining
his Duchy,” while, on the other
hand, the Japanese were empha-
sising that their sterling reserves
were down by more than 50 per
cent, because of unfair restric-
tions on Japanese trade by
“Britain and her colonies.”
“The truth is,” the “Econo-
mist’s” correspondent adds,
“that serious misconceptions
about each other persist in both
Britain and Japan”:
“The British stereotype of
Japan is a low-standard country
run by unscrupulous monopoly
capitalists who ruthlessly exploit
their working-class and ally
themselves with militarists: a
Uriah Heep who cunningly but
imperfectly conceals his aggres-
sive Napoleonic complex behind
a grinning parade of bows and
hisses: ‘So sorry, this my garden
now’: an unfair competitor who
floods the market with his cheap
goods and a bad customer who
buys goods only to copy them
and then undercut their original
manufacturers,
“The facts are that hardly any
people in the world are more
genuinely pacifist than the
Japanese today. Under two per
cent, of the Budget goes on the
Japanese defence-forces, and the
Socialists’ popular main plank is
to cut even this, while real
wages, although admittedly low
by European standards, continue
to rise (they rose by over eight
per cent, this year). Also, many
of the new Japanese factories
offer working conditions that
Lancashire might envy.
“The Japanese, for their part,
have considerable respect for the.
British way of life and especially
for British political institutions ;
this persists despite post-war
British neglect of Japan, and is
likely to survive the present
American cultural flood, even
the present Japanese craze for
baseball. On the other hand,
Japan shares the widespread
delusion that both the Common-
wealth and the sterling area are
British equivalents of bowing
and hissing, designed to conceal
effective British economic con-
trol of large parts of the earth.
Colonies and Dominions remain
indistinguishable still in Japanese
eyes, and it is popularly believed
that if, say, Australia restricts
the entry of Japanese goods, it
does so on orders from White-
hall.”
Pointing out that Red China
is trying hard to woo Japan
away from the West and
persuade her to accept Com-
munist China as Asia’s leading
Power, the “Economist” corres-
pondent suggests that, “if Japan,
the most industrious, the most
highly developed, and potentially
the friendliest country in Asia
as far as the West is concerned,
is to be regarded as in any sense
a counterweight to Red China’s
growing influence, something
ought to be done to remove mis-
conceptions on both sides”:
“British industry can play its
part, by carefully reassessing
Japan as a market for goods—
as the alert West Germans are
already doing—instead of con-
stantly grumbling about Japan
as an unfair competitor. (The
Japanese continue to show great
interest in British atomic
reactors.)
“The British Labor party
could certainly help, too, for it
is quite on the cards that the
Japanese Socialists may quite
soon be able to form a Govern-
ment; they feel (rightly or
wrongly) that they are, and are
likely to remain, the targets of
implacable American suspicion
and hostility, and they therefore
tend to dismiss out of hand all
American warnings against
‘Communism.’
“All the same, they are by no
means sold on either Russian or
Chinese Communism ; they like
to claim that their model is
British democratic Socialism.
The claim may not be entirely
justified, but it is probably one
well worth encouraging, if only
because people do tend to behave
the way they say they wish to
behave, when given half a
chance.”
British Cars
Difficulties experienced by the
British car - industry have
brought it a good deal of
unsolicited advice and criticism,
and the fact that West Germany
has passed Britain in the export
of cars has produced a fresh
wave of pessimism for the
industry’s future.
Discounting some of “the
worst prophets of doom,”
Lon d o n “Daily Telegraph”
points out, however, that “it is
only during the past two-and-a-
half-years that German com-
petition has fully developed. It
was hardly to be expected that
British manufacturers could
retain the same share of world-
markets as they enjoyed when
the Germans were out of the
running.
“Secondly, the fall in British
car-exports in the first half of
this year was almost entirely due
to the closing of the Australian
and New Zealand markets ; and
the reason for this was simply
and solely those countries’
balance-of-payments difficulties.
“In both the United States


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and BnlH-
Ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
m
m
A
1
The Common-
wealth Govern-
ment guarantees to
every investor in
Commonwealth
Loans that he will
receive interest on
his securities with
unfailing regularity
and at an unvary-
ing rate. Common-
wealth Loans are
today’s soundest,
most fully pro-
tected investment
for all who wish to
count on a clearly
assured return over
a definite period of
years.
AN
O0 rAX
0
00
2
Commonwealth
Loan investors
enjoy a special
Income Tax rebate
of 2/- in the £1 of
Commonwealth
Loan interest
included in taxable
income. (Of
course, the rebate
cannot exceed the
amount of tax
otherwise payable.)
The rebate assures
tax-paying in-
vestors a higher
net yield, after
taxation —which is,
after all, the only
practical way to
assess any
investment.
CAPITAL
3
Holders of Com-
monwealth Bonds
or Inscribed Stock
are guaranteed that
their capital will be
repaid at full face
value on the day
their securities
mature; May 15,
1958, April 15,
1965, or April 15,
1976, according to
the maturity date
chosen when mak-
ing subscriptions.
Investors seeking
the highest possible
degree of security
appreciate the
value of this Gov-
ernment guarantee.
,JV' r
010P0#
4
Investments in
Commonwealth
Securities help to
pay for the projects
vital to the well-
being of us all. The
programme of
essential public
works in progress
in all States is
designed to render
valuable assistance
to private enter-
prise 'as well as to
provide better com-
munity services.
Your investment
will help lodge
your subscription
now.
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follows
SHORT-TERM—IB-month securities bearing interest
at 4% per annum, issued at £99/10/- per
cent., and maturing on MAY 15, 1958.
MEDIUM-TERM—Bi-year securities bearing interest
at 5% per annum, issued at par, and matur-
ing on APRIL 15. 1965.
LONG-TERM—2O-year securities bearing interest
at 5% per annum, issued at par, and matur-
ing on APRIL 15, 1976.
4%
PER ANNUM
5%
PER ANNUM
5%
PER ANNUM
Minimum Subscription is £lO for the 8-year and 20-year
terms and £lOO for the 18-month securities.
Applications may be lodged with any bank, savings bank or
stockbroker.
■
CONVERSIONS
Holders of the £40,816,000
of 3% Commonwealth
Bonds and inscribed Stock
issued in November-
December, 1955, with
November 15, 1956, as the
maturity date, are invited
to convert these securities
into bonds or inscribed
stock offered in this Loan.
CASH
AND
k CONVERSION i
OMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
OPEN
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
275L2.33E
and Canadian markets this year
sales of British cars nave
increased by more than a third,
and are almost back to the 1954
level.”
Also taking stock of the
industry’s future, Sir Leonard
Lord, chairman of 8.M.C.,
comments in “M anchester
Guardian” that the recent cut-
back in production has assumed
undue significance because it
comes “as a sharp contrast to
the long period of expansion in
which to produce a motorcar
was virtually to sell it the
buyer was waiting, so to speak,
at the end of the assembly-line.”
Pointing out that the car-
industry has contributed over
£2350 million to Britain’s exports
since the war, Sir Leonard notes
that its future depends on two
“basic questions”:
“Does the world want motor-
cars and, if so, how many does
it need?”
The answer to the first
question is obvious—“so many
Chancellors or Ministers of
Finance simultaneously saying
that sales of cars must be
restricted, that too many are
being bought in relation to
national resources, is all the
evidence needed for what is
really self-evident.”
In considering the second
question—how many cars does
the world need for replacements
and expansion—Sir Leonard
omits the United States because
it has a comparatively small
export-figure and is largely self-
contained in the matter of motor-
cars. He also disregards Russia
and its satellites because of “the
absence of reliable statistics.”
This leaves an “annual replace-
ment factor of 1,380,000 cars,
taking the world car-population,
excluding the United States and
the Russian unknown, as 18
million, and average life as 13 to
14 years.”
For expansion: “An analysis
of the growth in number of cars
in use throughout the world,
excluding the United States,
shows an increase of over 60 per
cent, in five years”:
“With a continued expansion-
rate of 10 per cent, a year for the
next five years, and a replace-
ment factor of 13 to 14 years, the
interesting conclusion is reached
that the motor-industry of the
world, again excluding that of
the United States except for its
exports, will be required to pro-
duce over four-million cars in
1957, rising to nearly six-million
in 1960. Even if we put the
expansion rate as low as five
per cent, the world requirements
will be over three million in
1960.”
Of the British industry’s part
in this future, Sir Leonard points
out that “in 1955 the British car-
industry, when it produced a
record of 897,560 units, claimed
one-third of the production of
cars for the world (less the
United States). If we claim for
it only 25 per cent, of world-
output it will, by our calcula-
tions, be required to produce
one-million cars next year, and
something approaching 1,500,000
a year by 1960.”
Sir Leonard notes that he has
left out of his calculations “a
hundred-and-one factors which
may come into play”—-more
American exports, price competi-
tion, possible Australian and
Japanese exports, and wider
economic trends: “I have left
them aside so that I cOuld keep
to what may be termed the vital
statistics as to the future expecta-
tion of life of Britain’s motor-
industry, and I am sure that this
expectation is bright.”
"You Won't Be Sorry"
It will probably never happen
here but, as “Manchester
Guardian” notes, it was a nice
touch on the part of the Austrian
Defence Minister to present the
earliest arrivals for military call-
up with bottles of wine.
Other changes noted by the
same paper include uniforms
“quite unlike those in which
Hitler dragooned his close com-
patriots” ; mattresses instead of
palliasses; and living arrange-
ments open for public inspection.
As a result of these and other
considerations “one-third of the
happy warriors have volunteered
to serve for at least twice the
nine-months’ term” — whether
before or after sampling the
wine is not stated.
Mau Mau
Commenting on the capture of
the Mau Mau leader, Dedan
Kimathi, while “the 200 or 300
thugs who are the tattered
remnants of his band scuttle
from hiding-place to hiding-
place before the final advance
of the security forces,” London
“Daily Express” recalls that
four years ago when the
emergency began the Mau Mau
forces were estimated at 12,000.
“ ‘The situation is hopeless,’
whined faint-hearted counsellors
in this country [Britain].
‘Give in. If you fight them you
will alienate the whole Kikuyu
people.’
“There are two reasons why
Mau Mau is now almost wiped
out. First, Britain acted swiftly
and firmly.
“Second, though Mau Mau
murdered many Europeans they
butchered many, many more
Kikuyu. They aroused the
undying hatred of their own
people.
“Just like Cyprus. There the
chief victims of Eoka are not
Britons but Cypriots.”
Gunboat Diplomacy
London “Daily Telegraph” on
the “moral that we [Britain]
need, both in the Mediterranean
and in the Indian Ocean, a small
force of all arms that can move
and act—or threaten to act —at
once”:
“To snort derisively at gun-
boat diplomacy is fashionable,
even among people who welcome
the hydrogen-bomb as the great
deterrent.
“Yet many of them would in
fact be much relieved if out-
rageous behavior and situations
of danger could be quickly dealt
with simply by sending warships.
It is even possible that if the
right kind of warship for cold
and middling wars could be
designed and built, gunboat
diplomacy would be restored to
favor.
“Indeed, there are signs in
Whitehall that the political and
economic advantages of moving
ships instead of aircraft and
brigades are being reassessed.
Even the aircraft-carrier has had
kind words said about it by
generals and air-marshals.”
Soviet Submarines
Edinburgh “Scotsman” on the
“unpleasant shock” of being
“reminded by the First Lord of
the Admiralty that Russia has
.400 submarines and at least
another hundred under
construction”:
“That Britain should now have
only the third Navy of the
world, a Navy less than a quarter
the size of America’s, is in itself
nothing to be ashamed of. A
nation of only 50-million people
could not for ever hold such a
disproportionate ascendancy. The
important question is whether
the Navy can still defend us from
sea-attack, and in particular the
kind of strangling attack which
seems to exist as an ill-concealed
threat in that figure of 400
submarines.
“A modem submarine is fast
under water, and it stays there
for long periods. It may well
become a launching-platform for
guided missiles. With so many
to deploy, Russia, if the worst
came to the worst, could send
the larger submarines to surface
off our coasts. Short of
atomic warfare, Russia’s 400
submarines are discriminate
weapons. Probably they are not
in the first place launching-
platforms. They are the answer
of a landlocked Power to the
tremendous mobility that sea-
control gives the Atlantic
nations. They are aimed quite
simply at our merchant-ships.
“Given enough submarines,
Russia could either knock Britain
out without using the H-bomb
or acquire a decisive advantage
in the broken-backed, secondary
stage of a nuclear war. From
all accounts there are weapons
in existence to counter the
modern submarine. The question
is whether Britain has enough
of them, enough ships and air-
craft equipped with them to
give convoys a reasonable
escort.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Eden: “In
dealing with a dictatorship peace
at any price means to increase
step by step the dangers of
universal war.”
Rear-Admiral George Thom-
son: “The Prime Minister and
the Government are now con-
vinced that the danger of global
war is remote. It may well be
that they are justified in this
belief, but it has most
unfortunate consequences. It
tends to make the British people
feel that they themselves need
take little interest in defence,
and they turn with relief to the
television. The Government, for
■their part, are tempted to take
• the easiest and most popular
i course—they build V-bombers
and manufacture hydrogen-
bombs, irrespective of the need
for them.”
Lord Woolton: “One of the
primary troubles about inflation
is that the public likes it. It’s
a stimulating drug in the social
system.”
Britain’s First Lord of the
Admiralty, Lord Hailsham: “If
it is true that the strength of
Britain could be destroyed over-
night by an atomic explosion, it
is also true that it could be
brought low with no less
certainty by a series of nibbles
she was unable to counter
because she had devoted her
entire potential military strength
in preparation for the strategy
of global war which never
happened.”


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Dues bury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Slates.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO DARCY DELANEY of 1.5 Albany
Street Crow's Nest.. —TAKE NOTICE that
JUNE DELANEY lias filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3274 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without.just cause or excuse
for three years -or upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Kin~
Street Sydney by, 9th January 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. E. PHILLIPS, Solicitor,
159 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, or lui
Town Agent, J. H. THOMAS, Solicitor,
39 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOLGHAN
Registrar.
The Strange Case of
The Carnarvon Basin
By L. OWEN
Prologue
TN a flight over the Exmouth
Gulf area, shortly after World
War I, W. C. Woolnough
observed topographic features
which he interpreted as anticlinal
structures; the correctness of this
observation was confirmed by
F. C. Clapp, an experienced oil-
geologist who carried out a
ground examination of the area
in 1924.
Clapp, however, was not
greatly impressed by the oil
potentialities of what was then
known as the North-west Basin,
now more generally named the
Carnarvon Basin. Clapp’s work
was extended in 1934-35 by Oil
Search, Ltd., which had parties,
in charge of D. D. Condit and
F. Reeves, in the field. This work
resulted in the expression of
rather more optimistic views as
to petroleum prospects in the
area examined, but Oil Search
decided that Papua offered a
more promising sphere for its
operations.
In 1948, Amp o 1 became
interested in Western Australia
as a possible oil-producer and
arranged for aerial and ground
reconnaissances conducted by
U.S. geologists connected with
Richfield Oil. After the issue of
highly optimistic reports by these
geologists, however, Richfield
withdrew from this venture, and
approaches were made to the
California Texas Corporation in
1951, which resulted in the
formation of West Australian
Petroleum Pty., Ltd. (WAPET).
First Phase
The first well drilled by this
organisation, Rough Range No.
I—the location of which was
afterwards stated to have been
influenced largely by topographic
considerations-—struck oil at
3605 ft. below the surface in
November, 1953, near the base
of the Cretaceous. The “oil,”
however, was almost solid at
ordinary temperatures, and its
other physical and chemical
properties forced me at the time
to describe it as a long-distance
migrated, micro-filtered and
inspissated petroleuifi. On first
encounter it was in fact fairly
correctly described by the com-
pany concerned as “ozokerite”
and stated to be (rather less
correctly) “of no commercial
value.”
Had its migrationary character
been accepted, the Rough Range
No. 1 oil would have been
recognised as merely a geological
freak (in the form of a fossil oil-
seepage), which, nevertheless,
possessed very considerable
importance in offering direct
proof that conditions favorable
to genesis of petroleum existed
somewhere underlying the
Carnarvon Basin. Presumably,
this conception would have led
to a sounder policy of geological
exploration.
On a production retest in
December, 1953, however, when
a measurable flow (the well-
bottom temperature being high
enough to keep . fluid the
ozokeritic oil) was encountered,
not only the speculators in oil
stock but many who should have
known better were attacked by
petroleum-hysteria in a virulent
form, and there was talk of pipe-
lines and refineries and a huge
“developmental” programme.
Well No. 2—drilled some
9000 ft. south-west of No. I—on
this scheme merely proved that
the Birdrong sand had suffered
a definite drop in level in that
direction, and that the
anticipated “oil-pool” extended
down-dip for the vertical
distance of less than 150 ft. More
might have been learnt from this
well had orientated cores been
taken—which does not appear to
have been the case. The failure,
however, had the effect of mak-
ing the “developmental” pro-
gramme more cautious, and No.
3 well was located only 1000 ft.
n.-e. of No. 1 well. A drop of
125 ft. in the Birdrong-sand level,
in this short distance, strongly
supported my opinion that No. 1
well had been located in the
vicinity of a fault-zone.
The discordance between geo-
physical anticipation and geo-
logical performance brought
dissension into the Wapet camp,
one group claiming that the main
structural axes ran north-south,
while another group said that the
direction was northeast-south-
west. On the outcrop evidence?
even then available, it was
obvious no axial direction
continues lor any distance,
horizontally or vertically, within
the Carnarvon Basin, but that
the structure consists of a series
of domes and basins, en echelon.
In these structures, both major
and minor axes suffer consider-
able mutation, both superficially
and at depth. As I pointed out
when the proposal to sink wells
4 and 5 was mooted, much could
be accomDlished bv a more
searching study
tion of o B utSop y da?a
tion with the recoverv of oriVn
2£dcoresFa hSS
number of deep wells whose
’
location would be aided, but not
dominated, by geophysical con-
siderations.
At this point, in order to
prevent any misunderstanding, I
would state that I favor making
the fullest use of the fine geo-
physical equipment and tech-
nique now available to us, but
that it should be recognised that
the interpretation of geophysical
data is influenced, in countries
such as Australia (where the
search for oil is still in its
infancy), by so many distorting
factors that the published geo-
physically-inspired sub-surface
contour-maps of areas not closely
drilled often appear geologically
ridiculous to anyone with an
adequate knowledge of the geo-
logical history of the region
involved.
The drilling of wells 4 and 5
(1732 ft. south and 2034 ft. west of
Rough Range No. 1, respec-
tively) in no way solved the
problem of the axes. In both
cases the holes were barren of oil
and the Birdrong sandstone was
struck at unanticipated low
levels. No. 5 well lent further
support to my contention that
a fault, with a significant down-
throw to the north, existed near
the No. 1 oil-show.
Second Phase
No. 6 well appears to have
been located in an urgent attempt
to strike more oil. It was sited
almost midway between wells 4
and 5 and was only 860 ft. south-
west from Rough Range No. 1.
By all text-book precepts, No. 6
well should have* been some
1300 ft. up-dip northeast within
the anticipated oil-pool—but
neither the Rough Range
petroleum nor the Rough Range
structure is “text-book.” The
failure to strike anything better
than “an odor of petroleum” con-
firmed my “fossil-seep” hypo-
thesis of the origin of the Rough
Range impregnation.
Although they were not so
described, wells 7 and 8 (and
later 9) were purely exploratory
locations. They served merely to
emphasise the deficiencies of geo-
physical interpretations uncurbed
by local geological possibilities.
They aroused, however, a grow-
ing tendency to accept the
migrated nature of the Rough
Range oil, but it was suggested
by some geologists that such
migration had occurred along
the Permian-Jurassic uncon-
formity—an opinion entirely
unsupported in my view by field
or well evidence.
One most interesting result of
deeper drilling of Rough Range
No. 1 well was the discovery
that about 2235 ft. of Jurassic
siltstone (now named the
“Dingo” formation) had been
laid down below the Birdrong
sandstone at that location. In
Cape Range No. 2 well, over
11,000 ft. of a similar rock was
penetrated. Similar depositional
variations are known to occur in
other parts of the world and
some of them have been the
object of intense study. As I
see it, the most significant deduc-
tion from the unchanging and
persistent nature of the Dingo
siltstone is .that rhythmic con-
ditions of deposition were
absent, ®ver a measurable period,
underneath Cape Range and
other sections of the Carnarvon
Basin. It is surprising that the
prime importance of this fact,
from the viewpoint of petroleum-
finding, has not been the subject
of comment in the most interest-
ing analyses of field operations
which are printed in the monthly
“Wapet News Digest.”
Third Phase
It is not now disputed that
five (at least) periods of folding
have occurred in the Carnarvon
Basin since Permian times, and
it is very surprising, therefore,
that the exploratory drilling pro-
gramme in the southern part of
the Rough Range structure has
been confined to shallow wells
which did not reach even the
Birdrong sandstone horizon.
Rough Radge South No. 1 well
was stopped at 2867 ft.; No. 2
reached only 1523 ft.; No. 3,
1900 ft.; and No. 4 went down
to 2289 ft. Although these wells
provided some information as to
the form of the upper marker-
beds, the contours—and even the
existence —of the Birdrong sand-
stone was left in doubt. The
drilling results, however, served
to raise further doubts as to the
reliability of the geophysical
forecasts.
The jubilation (accompanied by
press publicity), which occurred
when the Korojon shale was
struck at a high level in No. 5
well, where geophysical interpre-
tation suggested the existence of
a fault, is therefore understand-
able, but the assumption that the
the existence of such faulting led
to the existence of a fault-trapped
“pool” of oil of commercial
dimensions in the Birdrong sand-
stone was quite unjustified. And
why this joy when Rough Range
No. 3 well (and later No. 5)
had already proved a similar
faulted condition in the north?
It is unfortunate, also, that,
in some quarters, the Birdrong
sandstone is still looked upon
as a likely reservoir-sand. All
the information produced during
the drilling of the wells which
penetrated this stratum has
shown that it is very unlikely
that it was even a route for oil-
migration.
Conclusion
Most of the drilling of wells of
less depth than 4000 ft. within the
Carnarvon Basin appears to
have been inspired by the hope
of a repetition of the unantici-
pated oil-strike in Rodgh Range.
The segregation of long-distance
migrated petroleum in fault-
traps along fault-zones within
the Carnarvon Basin is, of course,
possible, particularly where such
faults have not reached the
surface; but the successful
tracing of such oil-belts requires
very specialist experience and
;quipment not normally available
in oilfield laboratories.
The statement by the manag-
ing director of Wapet, P. F.
LeFevre, made in Perth on
October 15 is well worth repeat-
ing in full:
Naturally, I would have been much
happier had we been able to announce
that we had found some oil. We are
disappointed, but certainly not
discouraged. The absence o£ oil in
Rough Range South No. 5 does not
alter our basic conception that the
Exmouth Gulf area is a potential oil-
producer. This well emphasises the
problems confronting our exploration
staff. There will be no let-up in our
efforts to solve these problems.
Results of recent exploration-
work are turning our attention now
towards the west flank of Rough
Range in the valley between Rough
Range and Cape Range, and to the
northern portion of Rough Range
north of the original Rough Range
No. 1 and No. 3 wells. Our immediate
plans are for intensive investigation of
these areas. Meanwhile, Rough Range
South No. 5 well will be drilled ahead
to investigate and test the Dingo
siltstone and other formations which
lie beneath the Birdrong sandstone.
The transfer of “intensive
investigation” should, in my
opinion, have occurred immedi-
ately following the completion of
Rough Range No. 3 well in 1954,
and should have extended, with
deep drilling, both to the west
and north of Rough Range 1.
I have never been able to appre-
ciate the reason for locating the
exploratory wells on the crests
of surface anticlines and on sites
offering great topographical
difficulties. Surface synclinal
locations (both in the topo-
graphical and geological senses)
offered so much more informa-
tion at less cost.
Little good is achieved by
crying over spilt milk, however,
particularly in the oil game, and
I trust that any geophysical
interpretations in this difficult
area will in future be strictly
controlled by detailed outcrop
data and information obtained
from orientated cores—prefer-
ably 1 not less than three inches
in diameter—from wells con-
tinued below the Birdrong
horizon, whether the sandstone,
as such, is encountered or not.
I very strongly suggest, also,
that the facts as now known of
the geological history of the
Carnarvon Basin should be used
to the full in the review of every
location sited in the search for
petroleum in that area.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
’
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub*
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Umpire .... £2/18/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET MARION PADROTH late
of 43 Crowdgey Street Rydalmere.—
TAKE NOTICE that FREDERICK
-LEONARD PADROTH has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 4324 of 1955 on the
ground of repeated assaults and cruel
beatings by you during one year prior to
the presentation of the Petition I'f you
wish to defend you may file an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Courft King Street Sydney by the 17 th
of January 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from LESLIE
RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY CHARLES WALTON late of Bell-
bird Miner.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
EILEEN WALTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2645 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 9th of January
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO.,- Solicitors, of 2 York
Street, Sydney.^—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
zpeaACMAa
-a series of contributions on questions of vl
the hour by leading aviation personalities.
GERHARD HOLTJE
Technical Director of Deutsche Lufthansa
and one of the men most concerned in the
reconstruction of German Civil Aviation,
makes this contribution on the . . .
Problems of
building up an airline
\
//
>
L
We are only in the early stages of develop-
ment. The unwelcome effects of the 10-
years’ break make themselves felt every-
where, particularly where air crews are
concerned. In spite of their own per-
sonnel difficulties, BEA and TWA have
lent us several of their best pilots until our
own air crews are properly trained and
have enough experience to master un-
assisted the duties imposed by modern air
The new German Civil Pilots
School will be responsible for training the
necessary reserve of pilots.
The limited size of our fleet has hindered
us in developing our routes,, which will be
extended to about 26,500 km by the end
of 1956. We have now ordered 7 Vickers
Viscounts and, like other airlines, we
expect to put our first jet aircraft into
international service in about 1960.
I have had the greatest pleasure and
satisfaction from the fact that when Luft-
hansa reappeared in international avia-
tion we were welcomed as an equal by
the other airlines, who offered us their
support without prejudice or selfishness.
This showed a corporate spirit which
alone can overcome the international
problems of Civil Aviation.
AVIATION
n
SERVICE
senses aviation well
The BP Aviation Service is Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED in association with The British Petroleum Company Limited
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Reg Russom’s etching,
“Cobb and Co.” —6417.
To sell Descriptive Catalogue of
Rare and Unedited Roman Coins
(from the earliest period to the
extinction of the Empire under
Constantinus Paleologus, with plates
from the originals by J. Y. Akerman,
F.S.A.; two vols.; published by
Ellingham Willson; London, 1834).
6418.
To buy copies of the following:
McNab’s Historical Records of New
Zealand (Wellington, 1908-14; two
vols.); Melbourne University: Report
of Research and Investigation ( 1953 );
the annual report (100th) of the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce for
1951; “Sketch of a Residence Among
the Aboriginals of Northern Queens-
land for 17 Years,” by J. Morrill
(Brisbane, 1863); Walter Murdoch s
“Three Prophets” (put out by tne
A.8.C.); Singular Integral Equations
(boundary problems of function
theory and their application to
mathematical physics; Melb. Aero.
Lab., 1949), by N. I. Mushkhelishvili.
-6416.
Information Supplied
The accepted name for a collector
of matchbox-labels is “philumenist.”
One of the readers to supply this
information (Mr. F. B. Knox, of
Tahmoor, N.S.W.) also advises that,
in an article he read on the subject,
ex-King Farouk and the Emperor of
Japan are claimed to be, among other
things, ardent philumenists. Another
reader (Mr. C. R. C. Davis, of
Tongala, Vic.) suggests an inquiry
sent to Mr. I. Pritchard, Moreland’s
Match Factory, Gloucester, would be
fruitful.
Information Sought
Do wicketkeepers in first-class
cricket crouch with toes and heels on
the ground, or do they balance on
toes alone ?
Former Australian Test ’keeper
W. A. Oldfield, in The Rattle of the
Stumps, says “It is imperative always
to keep your heels on the ground when
taking up your stance and as far as
possible when in the act of taking
the ball.” Then again, a verse,
quoted by Ray Robinson in From the
Boundary, begins:
Keep both feet flat upon the ground,
’Twill save you endless trouble,
Don’t put your weight upon your toes —
Sage words by J. C. Hubble.
J. C. Hubble was a Kent ’keeper. His
two famous Kent successors, Leslie
Ames and the acrobatic Godfrey
Evans, have, however, not followed his
dictum. Evans, for instance, always
balances on his toes with his knuckles
resting on the ground usually about
6r>. outside the off-stump; and the
crouch on the toes has been popular
with other English county ’keepers.
But the traditional and commoner
stance is with heels on ground, and
since the adoption of the crouch (first
man to squat on his haunches as the
bowler turned to run was, it is said,
Australian Test ’keeper “Sep” Carter
—who always kept his heels on the
ground) all the top-line Australian
"keepers such as Oldfield, Tallon,
Langley, etc., have been heels-down
men.
* * * *
In the developing of the Australian
frozen-meat export-trade (Service
Department, B. 26/9/’56), was there
not also a man named Morris closely
associated with Sir Thomas Mort and
E. D. Nicolle? What was his role
in the matter ?
Yes. He was Augustus Morris
(1820-95), who owned sheep-stations
in Victoria and Riverina, and also
at Calandoon (Q.). He was from
1851 till 1856, when representative
government was introduced, member
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council,
then from 1859 till 1864 member for
Balranald in the, N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly. (In 1864 he suffered
severe losses from drought, and mm
to part with his stations.) In 185/
he conceived the idea of exporting
artificially-chilled meat, and tried to
raise £lOO,OOO as a bonus for anyone
who succeeded in inventing a process
to make this possible, he himself
offering to contribute £1000; but his
plan was ridiculed and ignored. In
1865 Morris met Nicolle, and felt
convinced that his freezing-machine
would do the job. In Aug., 1866, by
a pamphlet, Morris tried once more
to attract public attention to the
matter, and he spent the next two
years in Europe studying developments
in refrigeration. He continued to
give publicity, by pamphlet and letters
to the press, (o the efforts of Mort
and Nicolle to develop the freezing
process; and the former acknowledged
the importance of Morris’s help and
inspiration. Morris later did other
useful work in various fields, in 1886
being appointed N.S.W. Official
Assignee.
* * * *
What system of agricultural advisory
services is practised in England ?
Free technical advice on all agri-
cultural and horticultural matters is
available to every farmer and grower
in England and Wales through the
Ministry of Agriculture’s National
Agricultural Advisory Service
(NAAS). Every county has a County
Agricultural Officer in charge ot
advisory work; and the counties are
divided into districts in each of which
there is a District Advisory Officer,
who acts as a general adviser to
farmers. The District Officer can call
on an extensive list of specialist
advisers in livestock-husbandry,
milk - production, farm - machinery,
poultry-husbandry and horticulture.
At the 12 provincial centres and sub-
centres there are senior advisers in
these subjects, as well as in crop- and
grassland-husbandry, and specialists in
animal-nutrition, bacteriology, soil-
chemistry, plant-diseases, and plant-
pests. These centres are equipped with
laboratories for the analysis of soils
and feedingstuffs, and for the
diagnosis of crop-pests and -diseases.
The advisers work in close consulta-
tion with the Ministry’s Plant
Pathology Laboratory at fiarpenden,
Hertfordshire. Facilities are provided
at NAAS experimental farms and
horticultural stations for field-scale
extensions of research-work and
investigations of local problems.
Experiments are also carried-out at
provincial advisory-centres and on
commercial farms. The Agricultural
Improvement Council (AIC) advises,
the agricultural departments on
the application of the results
of scientific investigation to.
farmihg practice and on problems
requiring investigation. The AIC
also concerns itself with the problems
of estate-management, including build-
ings and fixed equipment.
Brief Answers
0.W.: (1) Bland Holt began his
stage-career in London with the
tragedian Charles Dillon, and then
played in America. He came to the
Victoria Theatre, Sydney, in 1876,
opening in the burlesque “Ixion” and
playing in a number of similar
absurdities. He was a panto, clown
in these plays. (2) “Struck Oil” was
the first play J. C. Williamson and
Maggie Moore produced together in
Australia. It was staged at the
Queen’s Theatre, York-street, Sydney,
in 1874. There were several revivals.
(3) Maggie Moore visited Australia
for the second time in 1879, and
settled here. She died on Mar. 15,
1926. (4) Allan Wilkie came out to
Australia in 1916, and played
long seasons at the Princess (Mel-
bourne) and the Grand Opera House
(Sydney). In Sept., 1920, he began
touring Australasia playing mainly
Shakspeare and old comedy, but pro-
duced also later plays such as
“Candida,” “Lady Windermere’s Fan”
and “Mrs. Dane’s Defence.” On the
tour he produced 27 Shakspearian
plays. He returned to England in
1932. (5) J. C. Williamson, Ltd., was
registered in Sydney in 1910. In 1938
management of its theatres was taken
over by a subsidiary, J. C. Williamson
Theatres, Ltd R.S.: The sun
enters the 12 signs of the zodiac on
the following dates—Aries, Mar. 21;
Taurus, April 20; Gemini, May 21;
Cancer, June 22; Leo, July 23 ; Virgo,
Aug. 23; Libra, Sept. 23; Scorpio,
Oct. 24; Sagittarius, Nov. 22; Capri-
cornus, Dec. 22; Aquarius, Jan. 20;
Pisces, Feb. 19. (The 12 signs, in the
order given, are reckoned eastward
from the point of intersection of
ecliptic and Equator.) 0.J.A.:
Little reliable information obtainable,
as this type of court is unpopular in
Australia. The bed of the court is
either excavated to a required depth or
built-up firmly round the edges, to
keep the material from spilling away.
The brickdust (or similar material)
is packed-in, and repeatedly rolled
and watered until it is built-up level.
It requires constant watering and
rolling. The amount of material can
be estimated in cubic yards by the area
of the court and its depth, the latter
depending on the nature of the ground
on which it is to be built and its slope,
if any. A local builder would
probably give helpful suggestions....
E.W.P.: Not clear whether you
require directions for compass- and
solar-setting or a cement for metal to
stone. For. the latter, a mixture of
fine building-cement with a little ljme
(moistened, of course, with water)
should be satisfactory, especially if the
undersurface of the dial is slighuy
roughened. A good dark cement is
made by melting together one-part
pitch, one-tenth-part wax, and two--
parts fine brickdust. It should be
used warm on very clean surfaces.
Before making-up a cement, inquire
at any good paint-store for a suitable
mixture: there are many new lines
which are easy to use and give good
results K.C.L.: (1) Write Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlerefigh-
street, Sydney. (2) Through N.Z.
Trade Commissioner. (3) “Illustrated
London News,” 195-198 Strand,
London, W.C.2. (4) Coudrey
Gotham Pty.,' Ltd., 5 Barrack-street,
Sydney. (5) Write J. Tyrrell, 202
George-street, Sydney J.H.: One
of those you could argue inside-out
and upside-down. However, the
odds are probably heaviest on your
side of the argument, for in most
cases it would be a misnomer and
should be non-party-political.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.C.D.: By the time this is
printed “The Ginger Cat” should
have arrived home A.J.D.:
Boarder kills landlady and while bury-
ing the body in the backyard discqvers
a gold-reef—no, thanks P.M.': It
never lived up to the fine promise of
the opening lines: —
By him who in this gutter is sunk,
No drink save metho shall be drunk;
That vile brew will insure him escaping
From the world of toil and sdraping.
D.B.: It must be 50 years ago
that that curate'was first bitten by
bullants J.8.W.: We have no
belief in the henpecked husband who
revolts after all those years of
slavery M.F.: Sending back the
lady who did a strip-tease act in the
ring of a two-up school C.0’8.:
“The Swagman’s Christmas Pudding”
will not adorn our Christmas number.
A.W.J.: You failed to mention in
the long poem containing the lines
I kissed a lass in National Park —■
Because her hair was raven-dark.
I wooed a maid from Merrylands,
Who stroked my hair with loving hands.
The brazen miss from Narrabeen
Had the reddest lips I’d ever seen ;
But the jolly girl from Fairfield West
Filled my hours with merry jest.
the “girl from Woolloomooloo, who
donged a copper with her shoe”....
F.S.C.: “Scene: A railway-carriage.
Characters: Three card-sharpers and
a wealthy innocent.” Don’t tell us —
the simpleton wins all the money,
doesn’t he? G.T.: Your poem is
not going to make “The Girl at
Stony Rise” very happy:—
Even though she looks so thin
Whan dog-paddling in the creek,
How dimpled is her elfin chin!
How blooming is her cheek!
K.C.J.: “The Last Tram Home”
finally reached its terminus—the
wastepaper-basket... .M.G.: “Is this
poem worth the price of a lobster?”
No, it’s not even worth the price of a
prawn.. . .T.R.M.: You got away to a
brave start, but soon fizzled 0ut....
C.G.: It has all the makings of an
Australian classic: —
A.S.D.: Kind-hearted burglar
reported to the Burglars’ Union....
N.J.8.: “The Young Lady from
Parramatta” is not respectable enough
for this sedate journal R.McG.:
Declined domestic tragedy wherein
husband had to mind the nippers
while wife went driving with the
curate A.L.8.: Your pickpocket is
now having the time of his life in
the basket J.L.: “Confessions of a
Sydney Mannequin” is a little too
gushing for this masculine journal.
ANNA’S GOANNA.
’Twas in the great outback,
Where stockwhips often crack,
There lived a lubra, old Anna,
Who owned a plump goanna.
One day a passing camper,
Fed-up with beef and damper,
Stole Anna’s big fat lizard,
And'stowed it in his gizzard.
But, sleeping besides a rock,
The camper got an awful shock,
When old Anna with her waddy
Smote him on his head and body.
The camper’s now in Bourke,
And they say he’ll never work,
Because of the hiding that he got
For stewing a goanna in a pot.


If it is true that “Aus-
tralia rides to prosper-
ity on the sheep’s
back” the importance
of lamb care is
obvious for the lamb
develops into the
profit-earning sheep.
The greatest care is
necessary when lambs
are to be marked and
tailed. The experi-
ence of thousands of
gra/iers has been that
the risks of fly-strike,
set-back and loss of
condition are consider-
ably reduced when
marking and tailing is
carried out by using
Elastrator Rubber
Rings rather than the
knife.
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
mn
lamps
burn
■ *
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTA7 ivt
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD„ ESSENDON. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
CRAZCOS.”
PASTURE AND FODDER
APART from the pageantry of
the Royal Show in Sydney,
and the commonwealth of fairs
represented by the display of
livestock —to glance briefly at
one aspect of the Easter Show —
the R.A.S. carries on a great deal
of valuable work far from the
city.
One example is the series of
pasture-and-fodder competitions
quietly conducted,’ in close
collaboration with the State
Department of Agriculture, in
various parts of the State. With
the possible exception of soil-
conservation (which, in any case,
is incorporated in the competi-
tions ; a certain number of points
are awarded for maintenance of
soil-fertility and erosion-control)
nothing could be ,more
fundamental.
Results have recently come to
hand of the southern-tablelands
zone pasture-and-f odder com-
petition, one of several con-
ducted by the R.A.S. The winner
is A. W. Locke, of Wirruna, Hol-
brook, who scored 864 points out
of a possible 1000. He repre-
sented the Holbrook P. and A.
Association. R. Clarke, of
Glenorie, Boorowa, representing
the Boorowa Farmers and
Settlers’ Association, came next
with 845 points. H. C. Uhr, of
Dalkeith, Tumbarumba, repre-
senting the Tumbarumba P.A.
and H. Association, filled third
place with 806 points. There was
some significance in the third
placing, for anyone who remem-
bers the hungry hills around
Tumbarumba before War 11. A
good example of the changing
pattern of agriculture.
The judge was G. Nicholson,
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture agronomist. In his report,
Nicholson said that the series of
wet seasons had given rise to a
number of new problems in the
zone ; many pastures were out of
condition, overgrown and weedy,
and there was a marked increase
of thistles.
It was noted, too, that stored
fodder is no longer regarded as
a drought-reserve. “It is being
used extensively during flush
periods of growth to provide a
better balanced diet for stock.”
The winner’s property is 1222
acres, and was carrying the
equivalent of four sheep to the
acre. The 1952 bushfire had
wiped-out almost all the fences
and buildings except the home-
stead, but a progressive recon-
struction programme was now
nearing completion.
The property has 23 main
paddocks, with a number of
smaller paddocks near the home-
stead. Although watered
naturally by the Billabong,
Dean’s, and the Ten-Mile Creek,
a water-scheme gives a reticu-
lated service to a number of
paddocks.
Woolgrowing and cattle-breed-
ing are the main activities. Sheep
are Merinos, Corriedales, and
crossbreds. During the past
season, 1470 ewes, were joined to
Corriedale and Zenith rams, and
417 crossbred ewes were joined
to Dorset Horn rams for fat-
lambs.
Cattle, 190 head, including 26
“Now you're talkin' like me missus—of COURSE I locked the backdoor!"
calves. A Poll Hereford stud
was started in 1948.
The bulk of the improved-
pasture work began after the
war. Improved area included
695 acres under sown pasture,
407 acres natural pasture which
had been topdressed, containing
a high percentage of sub.-clover
and rye, and 63 acres of lucerne.
Main pasture-mixtures were
Mt. Barker sub.-clover, Wim-
mera, H.l and perennial-rye, and
there is a limited area of estab-
lished phalaris. Topdressing
with one bag of super, annually
is the normal practice.
Stock got a good deal of baled
hay, as supplementary-feed,
during the year, but there were
still large reserves of fodder, to
provide for a full ration as
required for the purposes of the
competition.
Second-placegetter, R. Clarke,
works a highly-improved pro-
perty of 450 acres, subdivided
into 28 paddocks. Excellent
work had been done in provid-
ing shelter-belts. A flock of 600
crossbred ewes were kept for
fat-lamb-breeding, joined to
Dorset Horn rams. There were
also 340 hogget ewes, with 220
lambs at foot.
The entire property had, from
time to time, been sown to
improved-pasture or topdressed.
Pastures comprised mixtures of
Mt. Barker sub.-clover, Wim-
mera, H.l and perennial-rye, and
phalaris.
The property was “suffering
from excessive wetness” and
some paddocks had been closed
to stock for some months.,
Fodder-reserves were 137 tons
baled pasture - hay, 46 tons
baled hay, and 1800 bushels of
oats stored in a galvanised-iron
silo.
H. C. Uhr bought his property
of 566 acres in 1936, when it was
heavily infested with St. John’s-
wort. Sowing of improved-
pasture and regular topdressing
had brought the wort well under
control. Main pastures were
sub.-clover (Mt. Barker and
Tallarook), white-clover, and
perennial-rye. All paddocks had
been sown at various times to
improved-pastures.
The place runs 1500 sheep,
including 1000 crossbred ewes
joined to Corriedales, and 130
cattle. There had been some
trouble in maintaining the
general condition of the sheep,
causing loss of points under this
heading, the judge commented.
Glancing over the key
statistics of these three properties,
one can see very clearly the
emerging pattern for many
districts.
Control Annuals
“Nine Mile”: An aspect of
clover-ley-farming which receives
very little publicity is the
advantage of cutting a paddock
for hay or silage during the
season before it is broken-up for
wheat.
Major reason for this is to
stop annual grasses and weeds
from setting seed and conse-
quently being a nuisance during
the cropping year. By the time
a paddock has been under clover
for seven or eight years, weeds
are generally gaining ground and
the paddock needs ploughing,
anyway.
Topping helps to do the job,
but why not make silage or hay
and get more out of it? Especi-
ally when the paddock won’t be
giving any feed for the few
seasons it is under crop.
A feature of clover-ley-
farming is that the yield of
wheat from a paddock is usually
better in the second year than in
the first year out of pasture.
Unless cropping is very long
and intensive, clovers generally
re-establish well enough when
the paddock goes back to pasture.
However, about 2lb. per acre
of sub.-clover seed with the last
crop helps the clover to thicken
up again, faster. .
The excellent performance of
Clare sub.-clover in the Wimmera
this year (despite predictions to
the contrary) gives the hope that
at least a modified form of
clover - ley - farming will be
possible in the wheatlands.
Lantana Control
“A.C.T.”: Four species of
insects which feed on lantana
have been tested in Hawaii,
following their introduction from
Mexico, and only one was found
dangerous to certain crops. The
other three species have been
considered sufficiently safe for
introduction into Australia in
quarantine, and the Health
Department has approved an
application by C.5.1.R.0. and the
Queensland of
Lands for their admission.
These three species are now
being cultured in Queensland in
quarantine, and the Minister in
charge of C.5.1.R.0., R. G.
Casey, told Liberal member
R. Swartz in the House of
Representatives the other day
that during the next three months
further tests on the ability of
these insects to attack economic
plants will be made.
“If these species successfully
pass this series of tests,” the
Minister said, “application will
doubtless be made for permission
to release them in Australia. It
is hoped this stage will be
reached within six months.”
U_
Trees and Shrubs
“Pat O’Day”: The N. S.
Wales Forestry Commssion has
issued a 1956 booklet with a
price-list of trees and shrubs
available from the commission’s
nurseries. When ordering, it is
necessary to mention the follow-
ing requirements:
1. Purpose for which trees are
required—ornament, house- or
paddock-windbreak, fodder.'
2. Type of soil.
3. Rainfall —annual total,
summer or winter, wettest
months.
4. Drainage—does area stay
wet, or does water get away well?
5. Water available if dry area
—is irrigation water available,
or could trees be watered during
first years?
6. Space available.
7. ‘ Aspect and elevation —
north, south, east or west,
sheltered or exposed. Height
above sea-level.
8. Frosts —number and degree
of frosts experienced, tempera-
ture reached.
Glancing through the booklet,
writer was interested in the
following varieties:
Acada baileyana: A well-
known ornamental tree, short-
lived, but fast-growing, for good
soils on the coast and on the
western slopes.
A. cheelii: An ornamental
small tree for the western slopes,
in well-drained soil.
A c-yanophylla: An orna-
mental wattle of mediurq size.
Moderately drought-hardy,
A . data: A handsome tree,
longer-lived than most wattles,
and suitable for planting In
areas of good rainfall.
A . mollissima : Windbreaks in
coastal or tablelands districts.
A . podalyriifolia: A popular
ornamental tree or shrub, with
broad, silvery leaves and profuse
golden blossom in early spring.
Another acacia is “salicina,”
of willowlike habit; and there
is Agonis flexuosa, for fairly
good soils in central and
southern areas and south-west
slopes.
The Alyogyne hakiefolia is a
beautiful shrub for hot districts
in good or poor soil, well-
drained. The blossom is large,
purple, and red-throated. Then
there is Angophora intermedia,
a medium-sized tree, suitable for
alluvial soils and deep sandy
loams. “Angophora,” especially
at Avalon, up past Manly, on
the upper-Sydney coast, makes a
beautiful showing.
To continue down the
alphabet: Brachy chiton aceri-
folium, with large, glossy, green
leaves. B. populneum, fine
fodder- and shade-tree for
western districts. • Callisteiyon
citrinus, one of the best of the
bottlebrushes; C. rigidus, a
showy, red-flowering shrub;
C. salignus, a small ornamental
tree, with reddish-tinted young
leaves and creamy-white blossom
in spring. Adaptable to wet soils
on the coast and fairly dry con-
ditions on the western slopes.
Callistrus glauca is a splendid
tree for inland planting, for
avenues, woodlot, windbreaks
and parks. Callistrus rhom-
boidea (cupressiformis) is a
beautiful small tree of narrow
upright habit. Cassia australis is
a beautiful shrub with large
yellow flowers in spring.
Of the casuarinas, the cunning-
hamiana is good for windbreaks,
and stricta, with drooping
foliage, responds well to lopping
and is a useful fodder-tree.
But a word about our old
friend, Pinus radiata, also avail-
able. In fact, here at Tumblong,
a small place about 10 miles
from Gundagai, radiata is easy
to get. And, at £2 a hundred
from the commission’s nursery,
with a bit added for freight on
the Wagga-Tumut service-bus


INSURANCE —for your protection
' UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
9 V. 5 ■
i ,
.
n
■
SSBP Wi '*'‘ *.-,&gS f - ;
Now Holden Utility
gets new power and punch
NEW 70 GROSS B.H.P. PERFORMANCE STILL PRICED FROM £B5O PLUS TAX
Now greater value than ever before,
_ Holden Utility has magnificent new
I power with an engine developing
' 70 gross brake horsepower; with
higher, 6.8 to 1, compression ratio; new
inlet valves to match increased diameter
seats; and larger inlet ports. New reserves
of power mean still easier handling in
traffic . . . still greater load pulling
capacity.
Matching up with this finer perform-
ance is a petrol economy that’s really
remarkable, engine tests proving that
Holden Utility is as economical as ever.
Constantly increasing production
Holden engines are now being built at the
rate of 294 a day enables these latest
improvements to be added to Holden
Utility at no extra cost.
Holden is built for Australia
Because Holden is the one utility designed
and built expressly for Australian con-
ditions, only Holden can offer the perfect
combination for Australia of 6-cylinder,
21 h.p. performance, generous 75!" long
load space and exceptional durability and
outstanding dependability reported by so
many owners from every part of the
country. And the good-looking Holden
Utility has won acceptance, too, for high
resale value, servicing ease and ready
availability of low-cost, factory-guaranteed
spare parts throughout Australia.
Let's demonstrate Holden's new
performance
Ask your nearest Holden Dealer for a
demonstration of the improved Holden
Utility—drive it yourself and you, too,
will be convinced Holden is beyond all
doubt Australia’s finest Utility buy.
Biggest Seller, Biggest Value
Official registration figures prove Holden
Utility’s outstanding popularity. The
totals just released for Australian re-
gistrations during the first 6 months
of 1956 are:
HOLDEN UTILITY 7,752
Utility 8.. 2,195 Utility D.. 1,177
Utility C.. 1,473 Utility E.. 1,081
Still priced from £B5O plus tax Holden
Utility costs even less today than in 1952,
and with its new power and higher
performance is now more than ever
Australia’s finest value.
HOLDEN*
Australia s Own Utility
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
List Price £865 plus tax
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Convenient hire purchase arrangements available through GMAC—General Motors own hire
purchase company. ‘Air Chief * is the only Car Radio approved by GMH engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers, throughout Australia.
(assuming the landowner lives
uasonably near the main high-
way), the pines are cheap. In
fact' I’ve noticed quite a few
graziers around Gundagai plant-
ing them at strategic points on
their properties.
Radiata, of course, is for
winter-rainfall country. They re
beautiful and hardy trees, and
are particularly useful/ as wind-
breaks around homesteads, or
around shearing-sheds, for off-
shears sheep.
Plant 12ft. apart, and the
same space for the inner or
outer row if you want a double
formation. Soil should be
firmed-in well after planting
each tree. It isn’t necessary to
supplement the soil. The red
clay, with gravel and loam,
common around these parts and
good for drainage, is entirely
suitable.
If another row of fencing, with
ringlock-netting, is put in parallel
with the existing paddock, or
homestead-garden, fence, it saves
a lot of trouble. Tree-guards
soon get knocked about by stock,
and eventually fall into disrepair.
For Sydneysiders, the forestry-
officer at Wagga recommends a
very fine pjpe, resembling the
Norfolk Island pine, which can
be obtained from the Pennant
Hills nursery. The Forestry
Commission has other tree-
nurseries at Narrandera, Forbes,
and Dubbo.
Eucalyptus varieties include
astringens, andreana, albens and
botryoides; also the well-known
redgum of the inland rivers.
There is such a wide variety of
eucalypts that one really needs
expert advice in picking one
suitable for certain districts.
The higher areas of the south-
western slopes suit the ficifolia,
the beautiful Western Australian
tree, admirably.
Grevillea robusta is popular
for well-drained soils of the
western slopes.
There are quite a number of
members of the Pittosporum
family suitable for both orna-
ment and fodder. The undu-
latum, planted in 35in.-rainfall
areas (a small tree or shrub,
sweetly scented, with white bell-
flowers, orange in winter), is
much used for park plantings.
Of the exotics, Cupressus,
Sempervirens, and Semp. stricta,
are all worth consideration.
Pinus carariensis and halepensis
are both suitable, though the
latter is inferior to other pines as
a timber-tree.
Platanus hybrida, a deciduous
tree, is suitable for shade in
parks and wide roads. Populus
deltoides is listed for shelter and
ornament. And the Schinus
molle is recommehded as a
shade-tree in hot, dry areas.
Salinity
“Sunland” : First requirement
of bore-water is that it must be
pure enough for the plants on
which it is to be used. There-
fore, before embarking on an
extensive bore-irrigation scheme,
it is wise to have the water
analysed by an industrial chemist,
or in the laboratories of the
State Department of Agriculture.
In general, where drainage is
good, water containing up to 100
parts of salts per 100,000 is
suitable for growing all types
of plants. Water up to 210 parts
per 100,000 is suitable for all
plants except those which are
susceptible to salt.
Tomatoes, lucerne, cabbages,
Wimmera-rye, and other salt-
tolerant plants will stand up to
310 parts per 100,000. Straw-
berry-clover will survive water
containing up to 600 parts of
salts per 100,000.
In southern Australia, the
Murray Artesian Basin which
straddles the Vic.-S.A. boundary
has water which is pure enough
for stock and pastures ; under-
ground water in the Adelaide
Hills is good, too.
Probably the purest under-
ground-supply ever tapped is in
the Adelaide Hills, where a
farmer sunk a bore for spray-
irrigation. On receiving an
unexpectedly large flow of good
water, he investigated the
source further—do find he had
punctured the pipeline from the
reservoir to Adelaide.
If water is too saline at the
surface, it is unlikely to be much
less dangerous after being aerated
in a spray-irrigation system. The
only sure way of purifying it is
to use the recently-publicised
scheme for purifying sea-water.
This method is probably too
costly at present for- irrigation
water.
When planning an area for
bore irrigation:
Engage a competent engineer
to survey the area and design
the layout.
Choose the most suitable soil.
Lucerne needs deep, well-drained
soil.
Sink the bore as near as
possible to the area to be
watered.
It is an advantage to have the
bore and irrigated area near the
homestead.
Herd-bulls
“Big Billy”: A decade of
research at the Ruakura Station
in New Zealand has shown that
herd-bulls need the same care
and feeding as the best cows if
they are to maintain a high con-
ception-rate.
Expert R. M. Gallagher says
bulls must be in high condition
at the beginning of each mating-
season and must be kept that
way. In this state they will be
no more sluggish to serve and
will be capable of far more work.
He holds that there is no
sensible alternative to hand-
mating the main herd. Likely
gains from allowing multiple
services are small, positive losses
could be great. Each cow should
be served by only the one bull;
mates should not be mixed.
A bull’s fertility, Gallagher
points out, should not be judged
by his keenness to serve. Sterile
bulls are often keen, and slow
bulls can be highly fertile. The
future fertility of a valuable
yearling should not be jeopard-
ised by overworking him.
In emphasising that bulls be
given the same care as cows,
Gallagher warns that they must
be selected from herds with a
good record of fertility.
As to feed. Gallagher thinks
the average spring-pasture will
give as good results as elaborate
and expensive meal-mixtures.
Tests indicated that this pasture
supplied all the minerals and
vitamins needed by the animal.
There is no noticeable decline
in the conception-rate of bulls up
to eight years of age, but, while
a bull will be capable of some
work up to 13 years, the onset
of low fertility is fairly rapid.
After a bull passes the eight-year
mark a fertility-test at the
beginning of each season is a
worth-while precaution.
Trial Fertiliser Strips
“Sundowner”: While it is a
sound practice to put down trial
strips of fertiliser on a pasture
paddock as a guide to the top-
dressing programme, there are
some pitfalls.
Outlining some of these, G. B.
Rayner, of the Vic. Department
of Agriculture, says one of the
first essentials is simplicity of
design. Any complicated system
involving rates and combina-
tions of manures can lead to
confusion.
It is an advantage to have a
few manurial treatments, with
clearcut differences; but it is
also necessary to have more than
one strip of each, to avoid
confusion by chance variations
in the paddock.
Where another fertiliser is
applied in combination with
superphosphate, it is necessary
to topdress an adjoining plot
with the same quantity of super,
by itself. Sounds elementary,
but overlooking something like
that can lead to a pyramid of
false conclusions.
The quantity of fertiliser
applied, and the area covered,
should be measured and
recorded, as well as the site of the
trial. More reliable than fence-
posts or droppers ig a peg driven
in a measured distance from a
fixed point.
If the paddock is to be
grazed continuously, it should
be fenced off; response to some
fertilisers is not so marked that
it can be seen under grazing.
Crosscuts
G. J. Ratcliffe, hon. sec. of the
Orange (N.S.W.) Field Day
committee, reports that the TV-
equipment which will be used at
the Field Day (Nov. 13 and 14)
will weigh some 15cwt., and be
worth about £20,000 —“Equip-
ment required is expensive and
weighty”—and operation-costs
are estimated at £3 a minute.
“But the special process used
enables the televised subject to
be magnified without distortion
to such an extent that a pin can
appear on the screen to be the
size of a tent-peg, or an ant as
big as a kitten.”
Same: “Visual demonstration
has been recognised for many
years as by far the most effective
method of instruction. In fact,
this has been used to good effect
through the medium of the films,
but the new medium makes it
possible to introduce visual
instruction, in all its variations,
as applied to each particular
problem and district. Most
important, questions may be
asked by the audience on the
job, and the answers demon-
strated.”
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture reports that 39 per cent, of
farms in that country are
equipped with television-sets.
Use of television is spreading
rapidly, and it will be available
in all agricultural areas within
the new year, or in two years
at most. “Television is becom-
ing more and more a tool of
American farmers in their
agricultural planning and opera-
tions.”
* * *
“The present value of farm-
machinery, including motor-
trucks, on farms in the United
States is 10 million dollars more
than the investment in the steel
industry” (Lloyd W. Hurlbut,
chairman of the Department of
Agricultural Engineering, Uni-
versity of Nebraska).
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture reports that an eight-
acre paddock at the department’s
Experiment Farm at Leeton has
supported 50 head of beef-cattle
for two weeks —equivalent to a
grazing-rate of over six beasts
to the acre. Subdivision by
electric-fences.
H= * *
“Billjim”: In irrigation-areas,
particularly, sunflowers are a
valuable catch-crop. Plant,
October-November at 151 b. to
201 b. of seed per acre, using giant
black or giant grey varieties in
a weed-free, friable and moist
seed-bed. The crop can be
harvested with an “all-crop”
harvester or header.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/10/’56)
Queensland should receive reasonably good rains
during November, although only moderate on the Central
Coast and patchy in the Maranoa and Warrego. Heavy
rains may occur on the Peninsula, North Coast and part
of the South Coast during December.
Moderately good general rains should occur in N.S.W.
during November, and rains should be above average in
the far west, portion 'of the Riverina, and on a section of
the North Coast. Heavy falls may be received in the
eastern half of the State during December,
General rains above normal should continue in Vic-
toria during November, with the main rains occurring in.
the first half of the month. Rainfall should vary from light
to moderate during December.
South Australia should receive general rains above
normal during November, with heavy falls in the interior
and Central Australia. Similar conditions are likely during
December.
In W.A. during November, good rain may occur in the
Kimberleys, De Grey, East Gascoyne and portion of the s.-w.
central north, but poor elsewhere. Good falls may occur in
the Kimberleys, De Grey and Fortescue during December,
but poor elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
Transport
Next to the stultifying effects of years
of militant trade-unionism, the most
vital problem facing Australia is trans-
port.
We talk glibly of fantastic road-schemes
costing far more than our small popula-
tion could pay, and, because we are very
fond of copying the US. A., we think we
should have toll-roads, which, however,
would never provide the profit expected.
And so we dream away the time, brush-
ing aside the obvious solutions to our
transport-problems—solutions that could
well prove cheaper and more efficient
than expensive trunk-roads.
Inland we have railways already
developed—railways which should enable
us to travel or send goods direct from
one end of the continent to the other.
True, to change to a common gauge
would be expensive, but every other solu-
tion to our land-transport problem will
be expensive. A common rail-gauge
would cut many costs that are imposed by
delays and handling of goods in transit.
The main thing is that the railways are
in being, ready for reorganisation along
existing tracks. Should they be destroyed
by competition with road-haulage which
could serve other routes just as well?
We have the sea and, close to the most
populated coastal strips, splendid ports-
which only need conservation to be as
useful as ports can be in every other part
of the world. We have a coast crying
out for shipping. Yet we talk as if trunk-
roads, at tens of thousands of pounds a
mile, were the only solution to our
transport-problems. A single ship built
for coastal trade could carry more than
the total contents of a hundred of the
heavy motor-vehicles that have tom the
Hume-highway to pieces.
There is no oil of commercial value
so far in Australia, but coal in plenty,
and it should be the business of the
country to see that it is developed against
the time when oil may be scarce or even
unobtainable.
At a pinch Australia should be able to
do without oil for heavy motor-transport.
It is extraordinary that, with the open
sea available and a string of splendid
ports at every point where our population
is massed, we should ever contemplate the
building of roads to carry goods that
“Bit of a mix-up, madam.”
could be dealt with by rail or sea. If
we have money to spare on roads it
should be spent on feeders from the inland
to rail or ports. The Hume-highway—as
it was before its ruin by traffic it was
never meant to carry—was plenty good
enough for light vehicles and ordinary
passenger-traffic.
Standard-gauge for all Australia, a co-
ordinated nation-wide railway-system
and efficiently run coastal shipping
calling at all ports are the logical solution
to our transport-problems.— Shellback
(N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
Australian wine-makers might profit-
ably revive a practice which at least one
of them followed some years ago. On
several occasions, in different parts of
N. S. Wales, I was visited by a wine-
salesman who carried with him two hand-
cases which, on being opened, looked
like small cocktail-cabinets.
One contained liqueurs and the other
wines. There were miniature glasses in
which samples were offered for tasting.
That salesman knew something about
wine,' too. He seemed to book plenty
of orders for mixed-case lots and was in
marked contrast to the usual licensed
grocer, whose knowledge of matters
vinous is limited.
That man may still be on the road for
all I know, but more likely some section
of the Dog and Goat Act makes such
peddling of wine illegal—although no
charge was made for the samples.
Many people are flattered at receiving
such a call with the implication that they
are judges of wine. For too long the
retail side of our wine-industry has been
in the hands of people who hardly know
the difference between port and sherry.
There are exceptions, of course, but try
asking your nearest licensed grocer to
recommend a sound wine of the claret
type and see what happens".— Ceg (Vic.).
China
I read that Tsai Chang, a Communist
Chinese women’s leader, advocates “the
resolute practice Qf birth-control,”
adding that “the population of China is
increasing at the rate of one million a
month.”
The item should have made front-page
headlines.
There is a widely-held idea that Asia’s
overflowing population must find
sustenance by migrating to sparsely-
peopled areas around the Pacific, particu-
larly to Australia, New Guinea and
Maoriland—the only considerable land-
masses hereabouts not already fully
populated.
It has been estimated that (failing or
pending food-production techniques not
yet in sight) Australia can support
25,000,000 people at or near our present
standard of living, or 100,000,000 at
Asiatic standards.
If by some miracle of organisation the
whole of China’s population-increase
could be settled month-by-month in Aus-
tralia, leaving Maoriland and New
Guinea for the rest of Asia, this country
would be filled to starvation-point by
one-meal-a-day coolies somewhere around
1966. And China’s population would be
just where it is today and still increasing
by 12,000,000 a year.
Nothing quite like that is likely to
happen, but it should be more widely
realised that emigration cannot solve
Asia’s food-problem. The belief that
large-scale migration would materially
improve the living-standard of any
Asiatic race could, in the long run, be
as disastrous to our neighbors as to our-
selves ; and we can’t afford to have any
of them discover that the hard way.
What Asia’s people can do to better
themselves is more their immediate
problem than ours, but it does concern
Australians in the long run, and self-
interest as well as common humanity
demand that we give what help we can.
Whether that help should involve some
modification of our discriminatory
immigration policy is another matter.
But good luck to Tsai Chang, anyway
—may/her descendants be as numerous
and illustrious as her honorable
ancestors. — Jas. Macansh (Q.).
M.I.A. Flood Damage
A lot of publicity has been given to the
damage to orchards in Victoria and South
Australia by the floods on the Murray
and Darling, but it’s pretty safe to say
that the damage done to orchards on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area is
far more serious and extensive.
The abnormal rains in the
autumn and winter have water-
logged the ground and killed many
trees. A recent survey in the
Mirrool section of the area showed
that between 60 and 70 per cent,
of the peach-trees, 50 per cent, of
the apricot-trees, and a large
number of citrus-trees were already
dead. The full extent of the
damage will not be known until
the warm weather comes, but it
may be greater than present figures
indicate. Loss of revenue is esti-
mated at £500,000 for this year,
and is likely to increase.
Individual growers have suffered
heavily. One grower, whose
cheque for canning peaches last
year was £6OOO, reckons he will
be lucky if he gets £lOOO this year.
The yearly peach-crop for the
whole area is between 15,000 and
16,000 tons and is worth about
£600,000. The apricot-crop is betweeri
5000 and 6000 tons and worth about
£200,000. It is hard to estimate the losses
of citrus-trees. Many are dead and
others look sick, and it may not pay to
cut them back in an effort to save them.
A few hot days will be the deciding
factor.
Farms which were tile-drained have
come through practically unharmed, and
it looks as if tile-drainage will have to
have priority in reconstruction. This, of
course, is expensive and some scheme of
long-term financial assistance is necessary
if growers are to replant and carry on.
It is a major disaster for the M.I.A. —
the worst in its history. Plans for recon-
struction of the orchards will require
some deep thinking, and liberal financial
help.—M. L. N. (N.S.W.).
Gordon’s Calvary
Chinese Gordon was fond of theoris-
ing about the location of places men-
tioned in the Bible (B. 17/10/’56).
Many visitors to Jerusa-
lem are shown Gordon’s
Calvary, a low round-
topped hill directly oppo-
site the Damascus Gate.
Gordon was so struck by
its resemblance to the
upper half of a skull that
he declared it to be Gol-
gotha (place of a skull),
the site of the Crucifixion.
As the hill is of fairly
soft sandstone, its appear-
ance has probably changed
beyond recognition in 19
centuries, but the General
and his followers amassed
quite a bit of evidence in
support of their claim. On
the western side of the hill,
at its foot, is a garden, one
wall of which is the sheer
side of the hill, and in the
living rock is cut an
ancient sepulchre which,
they say, is the tomb in
which Christ’s body was laid.
The garden belongs to an English
society, which keeps it just as Gordon
found it, except for a bit of tidying-up.
An anachronistic note is struck by Aus-
tralian eucalypts rubbing branches with
olives in the garden. '.
The generally accepted site of Calvary,
now occupied by one end of the
Crusader-built church of the Holy
Sepulchre (the sepulchre being at the other
end), is based on a tradition dating back
at least to the Empress Helena in the
third century, but it is in the heart of
the Old City, which violates another
ancient tradition —that Calvary was, in
the words of the hymn, “without a city
wall.” Excavations since Gordon’s time
support him by showing that the present
Damascus Gate is on the site of Herod’s
one. Certainly this little hill, in full view
of’everyone using the main gate of the
city, would be the obvious place to
execute malefactors.
I wouldn’t suggest which site, if either,
is the true one, but it is easy, standing on
the bare hill, or by the tomb in the quiet
garden, to visualise the events of the first
Good Friday and Easter Day. —X. N. X.
(Q-).
Canberra
In reviewing its 4000th issue (B.
10/10/’56), The Bulletin omitted to
mention its most historic and spectacular
achievement—it is probably the only
paper in the world that gave a name to
a capital city.
After years of wrangling about the site
of our national capital, another fierce
controversy broke out about its name.
From all parts of the country suggested
names flowed in to the seat of the adminis-
tration in Melbourne, and the present
generation of Australians can have no
idea of the intensity of the feeling.
The names of politicians and explorers
were suggested. The politicians plumped
for the living and the dead. They wanted
Barton, Parkes, Deakin, Reid, Forrest,
and even Senator “Jawbone” Neild. The
man-in-the-street stuck . out for the
explorers—Cook, Bass, Flinders, Sturt,
Bourke, Wills, Kennedy, Wentworth,
Lawson, Blaxland.
The ensuing armistice was followed by
an avalanche of aboriginal names.
Everybody who knew a Binghi name sent
it in. The most popular was Myola,
which, it was said, meant “meeting of the
waters.”
Myola became the public fancy and
looked like a certain winner until a wag
of the day pointed out that it would
certainly, with the then Australian’s dry
sense of humor, be shortened eventually
to “My ’Ole (in the bush).”
Then The Bulletin stepped in.
In a brilliantly written article that read
like Jimmy Edmond at his best (I don’t
know who wrote it), The Bulletin lashed
out at the vanity and snobbishness inter-
vening between the people and its ideal.
It said, in effect: “The territory already
has a name. It is a beautiful name, sanc-
tified by comparative tradition. The
name is Canberra.”
The nation responded, and Canberra it
was.
To round-off the record, the name was
officially pronounced in a ceremony at
the site by the beautiful redheaded wife
of the then Governor-General, Lord
Denman.
Most Australians now call it Canberra,
with an even accent on each of the
syllables.
But Lady Denman, speaking slowly,
clearly, and deliberately, pronounced it
Canberra. —S. K. (N.S.W.):
Wireless-licences
“Ardoyne” (B. 24/10/’56) is wrong in
thinking that the Commonwealth’s power
to charge wireless-licence fees depends
only on the fact that no one will put up
the money to challenge it. In 1935 one
Dulcie Williams did so, and three
barristers, including Dr. Evatt, were
briefed to appear for her before the High
Court. The question was decided in the
Commonwealth’s favor by a majority of
five to one.
There is, of course, no section in the
Constitution specifically providing for
control of broadcasting. As “Ardoyne
says, “a broadcasting service could not
possibly have been contemplated when
the Constitution was framed.” Neither
were TV, atomic energy, high Federal
taxation or world wars.
Australia’s founding document would
indeed be sadly out of step with present-
day conditions if it were interpreted in a
pedantic, rigid way. But as Sir Isaac
Isaacs used to say, it is “organic law ,
its growth should match that of the
nation. —C. W. P. (Q.).


The Wilcannia Long Dam
The decision of the British and Ameri-
can Governments not to finance the
Aswan High Dam certainly brought
Egypt’s Colonel Nasser out in his true
colors, but the fact remains that the two
Governments were, at one stage, prepared
to invest about £4OO million in a country
as unstable as it is treacherous.
If these two Governments are bent on
building enormous dams in undeveloped
countries, then possibly they could be
induced to consider a scheme which could
be called the Wilcannia Long Dam —and
surely the Australian inland would qualify
as an undeveloped country. The scheme
has the obvious merit of strengthening a
friendly country and the money could be
advanced with some sense of security.
The Wilcannia Long Dam has been
mooted before, but it will certainly bear
further discussion.
The Darling flood-plain is narrowed to
a width of some 20 miles by ranges of
hills about 10 miles upstream from Wil-
cannia. If an earth-fill dam 20 miles long
were built across this gap the entire
Darling floodwaters could be conserved
in a lake covering about 10,000 square
miles in a good flood-year. It would need
to be 200-300 ft. high at the centre with
gradually lessening height on either side
to the adjoining hills. This vast take
would be about half the size of Tasmania,
and its waters, before entering the
Darling, could drive a hydroelectric
station which would dwarf anything on
the Snowy.
A huge irrigation-area of several-
hundred-thousand acres could be estab-
lished around Wilcannia using water
direct from the dam and avoiding the use
of pumps which make irrigation so
expensive elsewhere.
The Darling, once regulated in this
manner, could become a great highway
for commerce, particularly in conjunc-
tion with a parallel scheme for building
t a deepwater port at Goolwa and dredging
' the Murray bar. The Murray would need
to be regulated in a similar manner
although much of the Murray work has
been done.
Anyone who has seen the great and
still-developing river-traffic on the Rhine
and Mississippi, not to mention the Rus-
sian rivers, will believe that a great future
lies ahead for the Murray and Darling
valleys once their rivers are tamed.
Before the knockers rush in, they
should remember that a 20-mile dam was
built across the Zuider Zee under much
worse conditions, and that a five-mile
dam was recently completed across the
Rio Grande at Laredo. This dam, offici-
ally known as the Falcon Dam, was built
for exactly the same purpose as the pro-
posed Wilcannia Long Dam and proved
its worth shortly after it was finished by
completely trapping one of the most dis-
astrous floods ever known on the upper
Rio Grande. The floodwaters are released
to aid the irrigation in the lower Rio
Grande, which is now taking the entire
summer flow qf the river so that the
mouth of the Rio Grande is quite dry.
The scheme is big, but. if Australia is
to develop from a string of towns on the
fringe of a continent then thinking and
action on this scale are essential. —
A. Austin (England).
The Critics
When I’ve suffered from a bad press
I’ve wondered with “Rann” (B. 17/10/’56)
why criticism of the arts should be toler-
ated while the shoddiest of goods may be
foisted on the public without a word of
protest. When the critics have been kind,
then I’ve decided they’re an admirable
institution.
If criticism were abolished by law, I
doubt if those most affected (the criticised)
would be too happy. It’s publicity even
at the worst of times —better to be pulled
to pieces than totally ignored. Long
ago I realised it was the amount of space
devoted to one’s work that was the
criterion of artistic importance, not the
content. Some plays highly praised by
the press have been financial failures,_ yet
theatre-folk know that box-office takings
will probably soar when a prominent
clergyman denounces a play from his
pulpit.
Similarly, if a critic is harsh and caustic
enough, everyone wants to read the book,
see the picture or hear the performer.
Artistic success is as unsure as a lottery-
win. If the critics are hard, any artist
worth his salt (after a day or two of curs-
ing disappointment) gets on with his new*
book or starts to practise against the next
performance —-next time the critics may
realise their error and appreciate the
offering.
For my peace of mind I destroy all bad
critiques and treasure only the few good
ones. These I’ve pasted carefully in my
scrap-book (affectionately designated
“Dr. Evatt”) and read to my sufficiently
weak-willed friends when they come
a-visiting. When I’m a little older I’ll
beguile the times between tottering-off
for the pension by reading them over and
reminding myself what a hell of a fellow
I must have been once —by then I’ll have
completely forgotten the critics’ nastier
cracks.— Maitri (N.S.W.).
“Mungindi to Murray Bridge”
I’ve a lot of sympathy with “C.A.L.’s”
views (B. 19/9/’56), but his suggestion for
restoring river-transport from Murray
Bridge to Mungindi is hard to take
seriously.
We cannot manage to keep the im-
portant harbor of Newcastle (N.S.W.)
dredged. We can’t even control the tur-
bulent and destructive Hunter which flows
into it, yet “C.A.L.” suggests that we
should dredge and cut and dam the inland
rivers so that large ships can load at
Murray Bridge from strings of barges
“pushed by radar-fitted diesel tugs” from
all over the river-systems.
There are only two ways in which the
enormous outlay on such a scheme
could be justified—one if it reduced the
cost of transport, the other if it succeeded
in increasing production. Neither is
possible.
“C.A.L.” paints a glowing picture of
the way things are done in the U.S.A., but,
like most pictures from that source, you
only see one side, the other being care-
fully glossed over. It would be very
interesting to know just how many
billions of the taxpayers’ dollars have
been poured out by various agencies—
principally the Army Engineers—on
making those conditions possible. Cer-
tainly there is nothing economic about the
operation, and it’s questionable whether
the direct rate of subsidy isn’t actually
higher than that afforded the airways.—
Transporticus (Singapore).
Vintage Cars
The true enthusiast for the formative
days of motoring (B. 10/10/’56) divides
that era into three categories:
The veteran period, covering the time
up to 1905.
The Edwardian period, from 1905 to
1917.
The vintage period, from 1917 to 1931.
Although the Veteran Car Club of Aus-
tralia (headquarters in Sydney) admits as
members owners of cars built in both the
veteran- and Edwardian-periods, the
London-to-Brighton run (which is neither
a trial nor a race, but a rally to com-
memorate the first one held in 1896 to
celebrate the repeal of the “Red Flag
Act”) admits only strictly veterans. The
show to be held during the Olympic
Games is for veterans —Australian classi-
fication.
With regard to vintage-cars, it must be
realised that many cars were manufac-
tured during the vintage-years which by
no stretch of imagination can be termed
vintage-cars. The Vintage Motor Club,
which is the only 100 per cent, vintage
motoring organisation in Australia,
adopted the following definition of a
vintage-motorcar:
“A vintage-motorcar is a vehicle
embodying such features of workmanship
and design as to make it superior to the
mass-produced vehicle, such car to
embody a majority of components of
manufacture prior to December 31,
1932.”
An approved list of cars is published
to particularise this definition. —John W.
McNamara (N.S.W.).
Decimal Currency
“’Ermit” (B. 24/10/’56) has read me
wrong. Pennies and halfpennies as such
are futile to both rich and poor, being
useful only in making-up odd sums. In
advocating their elimination, I wrote (B.
19/9/’56) not of sums of money but ol
individual coins. A cent as a hundredth
part of a dollar (or pound) would do the
work of the browns, and more efficiently,
The buying-power of a given sum of'
money would not be intrinsically affected
by revision of the coinage—only methods
of computation would be different.
My view that fear of the cost and diffi-
culties of the transition has contributed
to official hesitation to change the
currency has not been at all discounted
by “ ’Ermit”; in fact, when he says that
a decimal-system was urged 50 years ago
he upholds my contention —nothing has
yet been done about it!
That other factor —a wish to retain
uniformity with British currency—is not
confused with “parity with sterling.”
There has always been, quite understand-
ably, a degree of sentiment to deter
departure from traditions emanating from
the Old Country, and the use of £ s. d.
is one of these traditions. The exchange-
rate is another matter: it is an arrange-
ment on a trade- and economic-basis,
irrespective of whether we have pennies
or cents in our pockets. In short, the
whole question hinges on coinage, not on
finance, and what “ ’Ermit” has said
actually supports my statements. —
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Papua-New Guinea
As Paul Ha'sluck’s article on New
Guinea points out (B. 3/10/’56), there
can be no such thing as “Papuan nation-
alism” while so many different races and
language-groups, who have hitherto had
little contact with each other, populate the
country.
I would suggest that we take up the
challenge they present to us and work to
ensure that they develop not a “Papuan
nationalism,” but an Australian national-
ism, and that their future common
language be English, as spoken in Aus-
tralia. In other words we should gradu-
ally prepare Papua-New Guinea not for
a self-conscious “pro-Asian” nationalism,
but for Australian Statehood. At the
Territory’s present state of development
we should be able to encourage the popu-
lation to feel that Papua is as much part
of Australia as Tasmania. If this were
done intelligently it would not be a case
of pushing an alien population into an
unwanted union, but as natural a process
as admitting the Northern Territory to
full Statehood when population and
resources warrant.
Problems would arise, of course. There
would be no discrimination against the
Papuans once they achieved citizenship,
and to that extent the White Australia
policy would have to be watered down.
But the vast majority of Papuans would
prefer to stay at home and not emigrate
to mainland Australia.
Even if, as Mr. Hasluck suggests, there
should be a fivefold increase in the popu-
lation of Papua to some 10 million, by
that time Australia’s own European
population should have reached 30
million and the Federal Parliament could
not be dominated by Papuans.
The advantages are enormous. There
is New Guinea’s abundant water and
hydroelectric potential, a better chance
of striking oil than on the Australian
mainland, and no doubt other mineral
resources as yet undiscovered. Also Aus-
tralian investment and land-holding in
New Guinea —already substantial—will
increase as years go on. The surest way
to protect these interests is to make New
Guinea permanently Australian soil.
It is also obvious that Australia and
other nations must make some adjust-
ments to living with the so-called colored
races. What better place to start than
in our own backyard?—R. V. Pym (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 407
Across
I—Pole which is frequently explored
by Australians equipped with skis,
etc.? (9)
4 —The broth is spoilt by this
palpitation. (5)
7—Spaghetti dopes one sold in secret.
(7)
9—Natural swimmer is but following
Henry the First. (7)
10— A floor-covering in the George
Cross and everything as a prelude
to wedlock? (6, 4)
11— Gilbertian wielder of the snicker-
snee wields it upon the heart of
1-across. (4)
12 — New back cyst. (3)
13 — They have found cause for mirth
in Hal’s urge. (8)
14 — Seat for the pious character in
Treasure Island. (3)
18— Fight a timber case. (3)
19— St. James in the Spanish capital
of Chile. (8)
21 —Bradman puts 500 on. (3)
23 — Artistic Agnes is where the Taj
Mahal may be seen. (4)
24 — Tormenting the insignia telephone.
26—The back part was in front when
the surface was considerably
disturbed. (7)
27 — The end of the first century plate
like a heel. (7)
28 — Quack by a duck used in connec-
tion with a composer’s work
slump. (5)
29 — Bob’s breath expands this glory-
box. (4-5)
Down
1— A lambkin hiding in a passenger-
ship of these waters. (8)
2 Description of the Hassett-like
shot into slips? (5, 3)
3 As chords are lost in the window-
supporter. (4-4)
4 Cultivate the cashbox. (4)
5 Haberdashery composed of bone
which is complete and bone which
is incomplete. (6)
6 Don’t stop behaving like angry
goat haberdashery. (6)
8— A meal to time a meal. (8)
9 Clement foundation for barrack-
ing in Sydney. (4)
11— Sounds like a letter suburb of
Melbourne. (3)
12 — A Sydney suburb street named
after me and you and me gets a
little publicity. (8)
15 — Do 1 pass the topgear disadvan-
tage? (8)
16 — Do I spoil the enemy of the sea?
(8)
17— -The opposite of the short cut or
drive an outsider. (4-4)
18 —Snake. (3)
20— Holy communist pouch. (6)
21— A comedian of errors? (6)
22 This makes the son of Ruth love
bunk. (4)
25 —Petticoat cricketer who waits for
the batsman to make one. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 406


&
m
P
$1
r
m
\
</s<>
<SZr&
&A
m
¥
wr
T
£C£X«*
X*X
:••••;
Wft
m
m
■■■:■'•
m
'&*m-
m
XT-***#
i-x-W
vO«
s*3
XvX*X
V'V
wm
m
m
m
m
i
i?
»x
w
9
1
&
K 52&
ss
ife®
Housing shortage ?
...not for me!
Every rubbish DUMP-big or small-is
home for him. All over Australia rats,
flies and mosquitoes are breeding in
thousands—in rubbish dumps. These
mounds of filth are home to many kinds
of vermin—the breeding ground for scores
of diseases which come out of the rubbish
dump into your home —to threaten the
health of those you cherish.
There is no need for
rubbish dumps!
A new system of hygienic rubbish dis-
posal—Sanitary Landfill does away
completely with these disease spots. Sani-
tary Landfill is used by progressive town
and borough councils throughout Aust-
ralia. Not only are these towns disposing
of their rubbish pleasantly—at the same
time they’re building parks, play-grounds
and parking areas.
Sanitary Landfill is
simple, economical
Only the minimum of equipment is
necessary, and these same tractors or
dozers are useful for hundreds of other
council jobs. Remember, too, that the
removal of that rubbish dump will raise
surrounding land values—as well as des-
troying a hot bed of disease.
THE ‘'LANDFILL" METHOD
DIG A TRENCH. WITH
DOZER OR TRAXCAVATOR
-X*'
S'
l ' < "'sL—ir« : viSk
00^
COVER WITH CLEAN EARTH.
Even if you don’t live near a rubbish
dump—if there’s one anywhere in your
town, it’s in your interests to go to your
council and ask if they’ve discussed
Sanitary Landfill. Your local Caterpillar
representative has a fact-filled folder on
Sanitary Landfill which he will be pleased
to send you.
CATERPILLAR
eN G
o* s
C"'
tv'
‘caterpillar and cat are
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., J.S.A.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
WI3C
