

No. 309: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
/
m
sepP e(tA
m
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
ANZAC AND THE GODS — PAGE 25
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3990
Wednesday, August 1, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
WORCESTER CATHEDRAL,
WHERE KING JOHN’S EFFIGY
RECALLS HIS EVIL REIGN
THE city of Worcester stands beside
the River Severn, and its name is
famous throughout the world, not only
for its magnificent Cathedral, but also
for its products, which are household
names.
The huge west window of Worcester
Cathedral overlooks with benign grace
the well-known cricket ground on which
it is the habit of visiting Test teams to
open their season. From the top of the
Cathedral tower Charles II watched the
final defeat of the Royalist forces in
1651,.-two years after the execution of
his father, whose cause Worcester was
the first to support and the last to
relinquish.
The Cathedral had a monastic origin
in the seventh century, but the oldest
parts of the existing building date from
1084, since when it has acquired many
additions, suffered much wanton destruc-
tion and pillage by soldiers of the
Parliamentary army in 1642, and it has
undergone considerable restoration.
Outstanding features of the interior
which shows many architectural styles—-
Norman, Early English and Perpen-
dicular —are the beautiful Perpendicular
North Porch ; the magnificent chantry
of Prince Arthur who, had he lived,
would have barred Henry VIII’s way to
the throne; the delicate Worcester
Crucifix of 18th-century Italian work-
manship ; and the tomb of King John,
shown in the accompanying illustration.
This elaborate tomb, which stands in the
Presbytery, is surmounted by an effigy of
the King. He was born in 1166, the
youngest son of Henry 11. He succeeded
to the throne in 1199, and his tyranny
at home, coupled with the defeat of his
forces at Bouvines (1214), and the loss
of Poitou aroused the barons to revolt.
On June 15, 1215, they forced the King
to grant Magna Charta, the first
declaration of the rights of the citizen.


sraiii
mMi
J? : ave the urge to write and the
STOAT’S n^ pre ? S ?" our thou S h ts on paper.
gXOTT S can train yon to write Short
Talk« eS, p^« ie v S ’ Wri l: teß Sketches, Radio
i ’ ars ’ v erse, etc., that will SELL.
letters*— 86 extracts from Stott-Students
“ My , fl ’?? a my writing total almost
±7O. (Les. 11.)
‘During the past six months my acceD-
«r ~? c ? s have returned me over £200.”
1 list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
„ , w aßd broadcast by the A.8.C.”
Wal f ab ? at accepted my article ‘Modern
Liocodde Hunting.’ The amount 1
shall receive for this article alone will
it r. a H n< i b ay 0r m y course.”
I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
OIIIMMMII
St ; * Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.; Brisbane- S 2l
Grenfeh St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth
CUT and mail THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
on £i& ? K 8 ’ and full partic "’ a " 0^
MY NAME
ADDRESS
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if aw-
ccssful.
The Red Page
WIVES FOR THE BISHOP
At first glance The Bishop with 150
Wives (Angus and Robertson) seems
a singularly irreverent —indeed, a catch-
penny —title for the autobiography of
Bishop Francis Xavier Gsell, M.Sc.,
D.D., 0.8. E., who, now living in retire-
ment near Sydney, spent 43 years in
the Northern Territory and on Bathurst
Island in the service of the Catholic
church. But it is not what it seems.
For one thing, Bishop Gsell, born in
Alsace-Lorraine, is typically French in
his outlook, with a touch of quiet
humor throughout all his writing. More
importantly, the buying of wives was
absolutely vital to his whole career at
the mission on Bathurst Island.
The first point to be grasped is that
in 30 years the mission failed to make
a single adult convert. If the natives
were to become Christians—and
Bishop Gsell states his case here very
persuasively—the Church had to work
through the children. Once he had
talked the elders into allowing the boys
liberty of conscience there was no diffi-
culty there; but the girls were a
different problem.
Every young man on Bathurst Island
is presented, at a certain stage, with, not
a wife, but a mother-in-law: all of
whose daughters he is entitled, when
they come of age, to marry. In fact,
he often acquires more than one
mother-in-law, a doubtful blessing
compensated for by the fact that he
is then entitled to more than one set
of wives. Since he has to wait for
the mother-in-law to produce her
daughters, and then for them to grow
up, he is often unable to marry until
the age of 30 or thereabouts; and, the
older he grows, the more young wives
he is likely to acquire,
What was the use of Bishop Gsell’s
educating these girls at the mission,
making them actual or potential
Christians, if, at eight or ten years
old, they were to be dragged off to
the forest to become the wives of some
“hairy, anonymous man,” as little
Martina was? And little Martina cried
and begged to remain at the mission
and, after she had been dragged off,
ran back five days later with a spear-
wound in her leg.
That was when the great idea came
to Bishop Gsell; he would buy Martina,
nominally as his “wife”; and thereafter
she could stay at the mission and,
when she was grown-up, marry who-
ever she chose. So he bought Martina;
he bought, over the years, 150 “wives.”
Once he bought, in one lot, six wives,
one of them an old woman, one of
them a baby, the widows of “a certain
hoary old reprobate.” The tribe had
squabbled for two years over who
should inherit them; and Bishop Gsell
asked to settle the dispute, “decided
to cut the Gordian knot by offering to
buy the disputed property in one lot.”
He also bought, in another unusual
transaction, every second wife owned
by one Antonio:—
He said to me one day, and I was
a conscious victim of his charm, “I
have many mothers-in-law, Father.
One day all their daughters will be
my wives. That will be very good.
But, Father, you and I are good
friends, and so you shall have the
first girl, I shall have the second, you
may have the third, I will take the
fourth—and so on.” From his
beaming face I gathered that Antonio
thought this a magnificent idea
which would put everything on a
good Christian footing. That, of
course, might be doubted ; but on
the principle that half a loaf is better
than none, I accepted. Antonio
kept his word like a gentleman, and
in due course he sold me five of his
piccaninnies.
Discussing the alternatives to his
campaign and replying to “a militant
Communist from Sydney” who attacked
him just before the war, Bishop Gsell
observes:—
One fact unknown to him was that
when a Japanese pearling fleet was
anchored in our waters the
“oppressed colonial people,” living in
their natural state of Communistic
grace, hired out all available young
women to the Japanese sailors. I
repeat, all—except the 150 I had so
deeply disturbed Communistic sensi-
bilities by purchasing.
Bishop Gsell has the perfect require-
ments for the genuine travel-writer, as
distinct from the tourist: a long and
profound knowledge of his subject-
matter, a special interest to give him
something vital to write about. His
book is as faithful, as amusing and
as universally interesting an account
of the Territory and Bathurst Island,
particularly the aborigines in both
localities, as one could wish for.
Bush Handbook
If you are interested in the earth
we live- on—and surely, of al
phenomena, next to man, it is
supremely fascinating—it is hard to
pick up any Nature-book without find-
ing something of profit; and until
reading Naturecraft in Australia
(Angus and Robertson), edited by
Thistle Y, Harris, this commentator
did not know, for example, that that
exquisite little green orchid Cy ru-
bidium-suave, which roosts in so many
scribblygums and angophoras around
Sydney, has the excellent popular
name of “snake-orchid”—not that
there is anything particularly snake-
like about it.
Nor, for that matter, did one know
that the angophora is known in some
areas by the entirely appropriate name
of “tumbledown-gum”; nor that the
correct name of the heath which grows
in white rods—sometimes pink—in
the sandstone country, and smells as
no other bush-flower, does of honey and
sunlight, is “Woollsia pungens”—
surely it should have won for itself a
popular name by this time: “honey-
heath” would just about fit it. And
then also there is the “hairy cicada,” a
bug one has shamefully neglected:—
The Hairy Cicada, of which there
are two species in Australia, both
alpine, is a nocturnal creature which,
though it has never been heard to
our knowledge, is almost certainly
vocal. These Hairy Cicadas are
survivals of ancient forms, which
lived approximately 200,000,000
years ago.
Nevertheless, “Naturecraft in Aus-
tralia” is not the book it ought to be;
Indeed, there is small reason for its
existence.
Put out by the invaluable Wild Life
Preservation Society, dealing by
various hands—with geology, insects,
furred animals, birds, trees, wild-
flowers, the life of the foreshores and
so on, with selected reading-lists and
hints on camping and finding your way
by the stars, it is subtitled “a guide for
the Nature-lover, bush walker, student
and teacher”; and its fundamental
purpose is the wholly admirable one of
teaching people, through some know-
ledge of wild-life, not to destroy the
bush but to enjoy it.
- This is very noble; but the best way
to teach people to love the bush is,
as so often in human affairs, to seduce
by charm; and there is very little charm
in this book. It is dry, factual, tabu-
latory, smacking of the classroom. It
is enough to send this reviewer far, far
away from it—though, indeed, into the
bush—to be invited on page 2, in the
geology-lesson, to study “Fig. 1”: never
again, once having escaped from the
classroom, will one look at a Fig.
Moreover, the information is often
—though by no means always—far
from informative. If it is pleasant to
learn that the snowgum and the white-
sally of the Monaro are apparently the
same tree, a point often debated
between one trout and the next, how is
the newcomer to recognise the black-
sally from this description?:—
Black Sally—E. stellulata. A
picturesque gum on basaltic soils at
fair elevations, usually on damp flats
near watercourses in New South
Wales and Victoria.
Surely the first thing to say about a
black-sally is that the trunk is modu-
lated from chocolate-brown to olive-
green—“The olive darkness of the
sally-trees,” as Judith Wright has it.
One unfortunate printer’s-error has
the platypus “living in Alpine streams
at elevations up to 500-feet”—it
should be 5000.
Finally, the scope of the book
necessitates such compression that not
only are most of the descriptions too
bald, and the prose robbed of all grace,
but the coverage of wild-life in all its
aspects is far too incomplete except
for the greenest beginner.
The book as a whole is essentially
no more than a precis of facts already
published and republished in a score
of popular Nature-books, and, though
it may still be useful as a general intro-
duction to the bush for children and
New Australians, such readers would
really do better to acquire, say, Charles
Laseron on geology, Cayley on birds
(unsatisfactory as his small color-plates
are), Roughley on fish, Joyce Allan on
shells, Dakin on the foreshores, Thistle
Harris on wildflowers, Rupp (if you
can get him; which you can’t) on
orchids, Troughton on furred animals
and McKeown on insects and spiders.
With that small library the amateur
Nature-lover would have infinitely
more than this book can give him,
much more attractively presented.
Re viewed Briefly
Voyage to the Amorous Islands:
Newton A. Rowe (Hutchinson). Sub-
titled “The Discovery of Tahiti,” this
is the history of Captain Samuel
Wallis’s voyage in the Dolphin in 1766,
retold from the journals kept by Wallis
and his officers. As everybody knows
who has read Melville or any of the
early navigators, Polynesia when the
European first burst upon it was about
as near Paradise as /.he earth is ever
likely to get; and Mr. Rowe’s story of
feasting, love and danger—though the
first-hand narratives always have more
freshness—is smoothly and capably
told. J
* * * #
The Kersten Memoirs, 1940-1945:
Felix Kersten (Hutchinson), Kersten
was Himmler’s personal manual-
therapist; and, according to H. R.
Trevor-Roper in his introduction,
quoting from an official Dutch investi-
gation, came to have such immense
influence over him that he “saved
thousands of lives of all nationalities
....besides saving the Dutch people
from transportation, Dutch art-treasures
from confiscation and Dutch cities and
installations (the city of The Hague
and the Zuyder Zee dam) from destruc-
tion.” Also, he is stated to have been
chiefly instrumental in the plan to
transfer the Scandinavian war-prisoners
to Sweden towards the end of the war:
a negotiation for which Count Berna-
dotte—wrongly, says Mr. Trevor-
Roper—claimed the credit. Kersten
pictures himself as fearlessly speaking
his mind to Himmler on all occasions;
constantly intervening to save lives;
and, with international blessing, trying
to persuade him to ditch Hitler and
make peace. A very curious book
which would be altogether incredible
were it not supported, in part, by official
documents. It has the odd effect of
showing Himmler more human, if not
less monstrous, than the usual propa-
gandist pictures.
* * * *
Space Ships and Space Travel:
Frank Ross, Jr. (Museum Press). Mr.
Ross begins with the “True History
of Lucian of Samos (A.D. 200) who
space-traveller “taking my %
thorow the starres, the third day
arrived at Heaven”—a problem whic
intending astronauts would do well
bear in mind. He ends with th
prophecy of Dr. L. R. Sheppard, wh
imagines that, when our earth in
billion years or so becomes uninhabi
able, space-ships weighing thousanc
of tons will set out with refugees
a star which may take 1000 years
reach—the reffos, in the meantim
living, dying and multiplying in th
space-ship. Between these extrem
there is a more factual account o:
rockets, etc.
* * * '*
The Hateful Voyage: Margot Nevil
(Bles). They are all on the ship bounc
to England from Australia, and all th
main characters have a reason why th
unscrupulous rich man, Mundy, shou’
be disposed-of: it is interesting as
murder-thriller in that the victim is noi
the victim and the murderer
murdered.
* * * *
Charitable Malice: Leonard Burrow
and David Bradley (University o
Western Australia Press). A collectio
of Augustan poetry, the longer pieces
such as “The Rape of the Lock,” i
extracts only; others represented by
single line; and with the authors’ name
put somewhat uncharitably o
maliciously not at the ends of th
pieces, but at the back. The poem
and extracts range in time from Dryden
to Johnson, and seem not to hav
changed since last one saw them
clear, brilliant and hard; the natura
conversation of authors who are alway
acting.
* * * *
_ The Golden Valley: Frank O’Grady
(Cassell). Squatters menaced by
pastoral company, aborigines anc
convict-employees of the company, in
the time of Governor Bourke. It i
the first time one has seen the cowboys
and-Injuns treatment applied to Aus
tralian pioneers. There are the gooc
abos. in league with the good squatters
and the bad abos., depraved by white
man firewater, in league with the con-
victs . . . who, it must be lamented
wipe the good abos. and good squatters
out.
* * * *
Kazak Exodus: Godfrey Lias
(Evans). The Kazaks are 20,000
descendants of the hordes of Genghis
Khan. In 1948, with their ‘camels,
sheep and horses, they migrated from
Sinkiang province to East Kashmir
then to Turkey, to get away from the
Communists. The journey, over the
mountains of Tibet, took two years,
and only about a quarter of them
survived. The book is in part a
description of this journey, in part
biography of their leader, Osman
Batur. As a biography it is marred
by the author’s use of fictional tech-
nique—the inventing of conversations,
etc. —but it all makes a colorful and
unusual travel-book.
* * * *
No Facilities for Women: Charlotte
Ebener (Seeker and Warburg). Corres-
pondent for American newspapers,
Mrs. Ebener has met the Red Army in
Manchuria, Madame Chiang Kai-shek
in Chungking, the Foreign Legion in
Indo-China, Dr. Soekamo in Indonesia
and Syngman Rhee in Korea. A lively,
informative, informal book of politics
and travel.
* * * *
The Desert and the Stars: Flora
Armitage (Faber). A reassessment of
Lawrence of Arabia provoked—indeed,
necessitated—by Richard Aldington’s
attack, which Miss Armitage describes
as “unpardonable distortion.” Except
when criticising Aldington, Miss Armi-
tage’s outlook is objective and dis-
passionate; and from the full-scale
biography which her reassessment has
required, there emerges a convincing
account both of Lawrence’s career and
of his complex personality. The
controversy begins to grow rather
sordid; the writing is excellent.


W:.: :
I w<
>#»• <«■
V
n B • B
llili
H
». ,'j
■
4
f A
: -7
A I
Kill;
wm
&«>< < '<••
" y - '■'■ ■ '■:■■■
J
C
V
BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. ’PHONE T.O.P.S. 80951
10TIMES FASTER
:
111
HI
mm
mmt-
.J
and 10 times Safer!
You can make up to 200 fastenings per hour with a pull-out resistance
of 500 to 800 lbs. with f" penetration in sound concrete! The penetration
is fast, clean and safe, no electricity, no compressed air, no powder.
Left is the unit with a Whitworth thread head in six
lengths for driving into substances from gypsum and composition walls
to steel and reinforced concrete. There is practically no limit to the
particular types of fastening that can be made with the Hilti drive tool.
grw —Here is a similar unit with a metric threaded head in eight
sizes to cover a wider range of substances on which it can be used.
{p anc-rjCT
The third unit is the drive nail in eight sizes. All units aie tapeied so
that you can leave any portion of this unit exposed and it will hold last.
Wall range of accessories
A really amazing range of accessories are available to go with this tool,
making it one of the most useful of the latest additions to your tool bag.
There are nickel plated hexagon nuts, cylindrical and slotted hexagons.
Brass and nickel plated acron hexagon nuts, barrel nuts and round
head screws and slotted head sleeve nuts for fitting a wa units.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST
80951


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3990
Wednesday , August 1, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior * David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
RAILWAY RUIN
THE floods, increasing wage-demands, bad
management in some States, decaying rolling-stock,
obsolescence in equipment and methods and rising
costs generally are producing muddle and financial
chaos in. the transport-systems of Australia, and of
the railways in particular.
Some States, like South Australia, manage
their railways as reasonably as circumstances allow;
but, unfortunately, under the Federal financial
system, the people of all States pay for the failures
of the muddlers like Cahill of N.S.W. and Gair of
Queensland, who appear to be entirely in the hands
of the union juntas of their States.
The drift is more than alarming. Looking
back to 1937, there were then 27,896-odd miles of
line open in Australia, of which 2145 were in
Commonwealth hands. There had been a slight
decline through the closing of some small lines
since 1932, a year or so , after the last major new
railway-link had been built, that of the Grafton-
South Brisbane uniform-gauge line to connect
Brisbane more directly than by the old, long inland
route with the southern capitals.
In 1955 there was less actual length of line
operating than before the war. The total staffs
employed have gone up from 102,000-odd to
135,000, and the gross revenue has climbed from
£44 million to the region of £l6O million without
halting the steady race towards bankruptcy.
The average earning per employee rose from
£235 in 1936-37 to £796 in 1952-53, and there has
been a stiff advance since, with more demands,
including one in N. S. Wales for £2 a week to
recoup transport-workers for the extra wages they
might earn if employed in some other industry.
With ballooning population and a booming
economy in which the complaint in Socialist circles
is that private-enterprise profits are rising too
high, the socialised transport-systems are a vast
quagmire of bankruptcy and inefficiency in which
an expenditure of close on £5O million a year on
“construction” and replacement of plant adds
nothing to the length of line available, save a few
miles here and there in the capitals constructed at
a snail’s pace and at monumental cost to serve—
half-finished—the part of the population which does
least to increase production.
In N. S. Wales in particular, and in other States
as well, the business of railroading is conducted
in an atmosphere of extortion, shabbiness and
internal strife between Ministers and public
servants which would put any private concern
out of business in a year. The railways in the
eastern States survive by the power of the Govern-
ments that own them to extort fares and freights
from customers unchecked and subsidies from the
taxpayers in general throughout the Commonwealth
to the limit of the tolerance of the Commonvrealth
Treasury.
Railways, of course, are not outmoded as a
means of transport. They are still the most
economical method available for heavy-duty land
transport in bulk over long distances if efficiently
managed. Road traffic cannot replace them. An
American company informed a Sydney newspaper
a few days ago that a six-lane, heavy-duty, all-
weather road from Brisbane to Melbourne would
today cost in the vicinity of £541 million and that
similar roads in the United States ran to a million
dollars a mile. When the cost of maintenance is
looked into it no doubt would add enormously to
this figure, which is based on current costs and
which would rise considerably if the construction
work were as prolonged as most construction work
in Australia is.
In any case, the expenditure would be quite
out of balance with the other developmental needs
of the economy—the estimate for the whole of the
huge Snowy River scheme, which, apart from
power-production, will create a new closer-settle-
ment kingdom about the area of Denmark in the
Murrumbidgee-Murray enclave, is considerably less
than the estimate for this one comparatively short
and sectional highway. And there would be no
need for the highway if the railways were doing
their job.
They are certainly not. Their breakdowns in
passenger-carriage in N.S.W. are a scandal. Their
trains, save for a few advertised specials, in most
States are antediluvian by modem European and
American standards of speed, efficiency, service and
comfort.
Routes are not being reorganised to meet the
changing conditions of regional development, and
it is being left to road and air to cater for new
communities which a few years ago could have
supported a railway and had one as a matter of
course.
The policy of most railway-managements has
been to impede and suppress competition rather
than to meet the new conditions by a policy of
co-ordination and co-operation which would
encourage private operators to feed traffic to and
from the rail.
While trying to kill private commercial trans-
port and force industry to use the railways at what-
ever cost, the railway-managements have not at any
stage attempted themselves to provide subsidiary
road and air services, as has been done in some
other countries. Their attitude is . utterly dog-in-
the-manger.
There have been for.years in existence plans
for railways to open up large pastoral lands of the
Centre and of western Queensland, like the Bourke
connection, to bring down store stock for fattening
on the rapidly improving pastures and increasing
small holdings of N. S. Wales; but Governments
have dallied so long with these proposals that cost
has now placed them, like heavy-duty road-
construction which should have been undertaken
years ago, beyond the bounds of immediate financial
practicability; this, even though building charges
are very much less pep mile than those of heavy-
duty six-lane roads, which have not the same
traffic-capacity over long distances.
For comparison it may be noted that in the
1920’5, when the schemes for the long western
stock-carrying lines were evolved, costs ran from
£4500 to £6OOO a mile in Central Queensland,
according to the nature of the country.
In 1953 the 8.85 miles of the Dakenba-Callide
in Central Queensland cost £50,000 a mile, and a
few miles of suburban Brisbane railway £54,000
a mile.
The stage has been reached when some
national inquiry is needed into railway and
subsidiary transport-systems, apart from metro-
politan passenger-carrying tram and bus services,
which are as grossly inefficient as the long-distance
services.
The inefficiency and rapid decay both of rail-
ways and roads and the moribund condition of the
coastal sea trade, once flourishing, highly competi-
tive and very serviceable in building-up railway
traffic to the seaboards, is a matter for alarm and
a trend dangerous to the whole economy and
to defence efficiency, which depends primarily on
the ability of rail and sea to serve armies over long
distances.
It is a problem which the Commonwealth
might urgently undertake to survey with such
co-operation as it can get from the States.
Top-level Tourists
PRESIDENTS and Prime Ministers of a century
ago would probably find in the activities of their
present-day successors nothing that would amaze
them more than the extraordinary mobility of these
gentlemen.
Abraham Lincoln never left the shores of
America, and if British Prime Ministers of the
18th and early 19th centuries made the Grand
Tour of Europe before entering Parliament they
made up for the lapse by seldom even sighting the
Channel thereafter.
How different is the position today! Churchill
and Roosevelt set the pace by their war-time
example, holding their conferences in such exotic
places as Harbor Grace, Casablanca, Cairo, Tehran
and Yalta. Had Fate not intervened they would
possibly have tested the atmosphere of Tobolsk
and Vladivostok. As it was, their successors had
to make-do with Potsdam.
After the war, heads-of-State continued the
trend. Meetings of the Big Three and the Big
Four, top-level talks, Foreign Minister talks and
Summit-talks kept them posting o’er land and ocean
with as little rest as was in earlier times afforded
to concert-pianists and religious revivalists.
Australian Ministers have not been behind-
hand in mobility. Chifley was not one for travel
himself, but was never stingey when any of his
Cabinet developed itchy feet or asked for a leave-
pass. Evatt was the outstanding traveller of that
period; even the migratory swallows were confused
by his comings and goings—but most of his
colleagues also saw their share of the world. Even
rank-and-file A.L.P. members managed an
occasional seat at a conference-table; there linger
memories of “Dollars” Daly almost getting lost on
a slow boat from Panama, and of Senator Amour
losing his Coca-Cola on a fast plane from ’Frisco.
Menzies and Co., although critical of the peregrina-
tions of their predecessors, have totted-up a most
impressive tally of travel-vouchers and hotel-labels
in their six years of office, and don’t look like
slowing-down.
World-travel at public expense is by no means
confined to politicians. It’s a very lopsided plane
that leaves Australia without at least one delegate
aboard with credentials entitling him to attend
a conference of Unesco, Ecafe, Ecosoc, or some
other of the alphabetical impersonages spawned by
U.N.O. Permanent members of the External Affairs
Department carry the brief-case on many of these
trips, but there are plenty left over for officers of
other departments, Federal and State, and for the
various lawyers, doctors, businessmen, trade-union
officials, journalists and women who are co-opted
from time to time. It is rather a victory for the
feminists that a woman may qualify for a trip to
Geneva simply because she is a woman. No man
has ever been chosen as a delegate purely on the
ground of his manhood; he must have some other
qualification, however slight.
The calendar of conferences for July was not
so long as in some recent months, but it may be
taken as typical. It comprised:—
July 2-11. 1.L.0. —Meeting of experts
on industrial and human relations. July 3-
August 4. Ecosoc —22nd session. July 9-17.
Unesco / LB.E. Conference on public
education, 19th session. July 10 -17.
1.L.0. —Committee of experts on performers’
rights. July 11-31. Unesco Executive
Board, 44th session. July 13. F.A.O. —
Technical panel on education in forestry.
First ad hoc meeting. July 23 - 27.
F.A.0.! 0.1. E. Meeting on tick-borne
diseases. July 30-A ugust 6. Ecafe —Working-
party on housing and building-materials,
fourth meeting.
The first four on the list were held in Geneva,
the others in Paris, Oxford, Rome and Bangkok
respectively.
Geneva is, of course, still the chief home of
the gabfest, but the convention organisers distribute
the natterings fairly generously over the whole
globe. In the three months April-June, Australian
voices were also heard at conference-tables in
Madrid, New York, Havana, Fiji, Berne, Istanbul,
Washington, Vienna, Tokyo, London, Rome and
Caracas. Our tongue goes round the globe!
What is true of Australia in the field of con-
ference is more-or-less the pattern throughout the
world. Of the “new” nations it can be said that
there is no attribute of modern democracy they have
acquired more rapidly or practised more assiduously
than the cult of travel-and-talk. Many of them
are represented at as many conferences as Aus-
tralia—and when that is said, no more can be said.
Their Prime Ministers, considering the relatively
short time most of the new nations have been in
existence, and allowing for changes in occupancy
of the top jobs, have piled-up impressive mileages
and wordages.
On both counts India’s Prime Minister Nehru
wins hands-down. He flits from capital to capital,
receiving welcomes, freedoms and bouquets, and
explaining that co-existence doesn’t merely mean
co-existence. What it does mean can possibly be
summed up in his twin philosophies that if every-
one believed as he does" the world would be a much
better place, and that all men are brothers, but
some were bom out of wedlock. Both tenets are
possibly true, but many less-travelled people feel
that they do not provide the complete answer to
the world’s problems.
The leaders of Russia and the Iron Curtain
countries had a very poor record as tourists until
a couple of years ago, but they are now catching-up
fast. Khrushchev and Bulganin tripped through
India, Burma and Afghanistan with the airy-fairy
tread of elephants in gumboots, and then, with
Malenkov walking on ahead to test the track for
landmines, ventured on a conducted tour of
England. Shortly afterwards one of their deputies
journeyed to Cairo on the occasion of the celebra-
tion of the end of British occupation of the Canal
Zone. He and Colonel Nasser were thus able to
cement the ancient friendship that existed between
their two countries in the days of the Pharaohs,
when Russian architects were designing the
Pyramids.
The Russian example is being followed by
the satellites. Polish Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz
is to visit India towards the end of the year, and
Marshal Tito has accepted an invitation to Cam-
bodia. Tito is a seasoned traveller. He received
the flower-and-garland treatment in India long
before Bulganin and Khrushchev, and also beat
them to London.
With more and more national leaders being
added to the touring-list, there’s an increasing
danger of itineraries overlapping. It seems prob-
able that this has already happened to Mr. Nehru.
Accident rather than design may explain how, after
saying his piece in London, Bonn, Paris and
Dublin, he arrived in Yugoslavia to visit Tito at
the same time as Egypt’s Colonel Nasser. An even
bleaker prospect facing the peregrinating Prime
Ministers is that, with the increasing tempo of
international visits, the time may come when they
have exhausted the field. After all, even George A.
Fitzpatrick, doyen of world-travellers, at last ran
out of subjects for his reluctant farewells. On his
European tour Mr. Nehru stressed the inevitability
of One World. Maybe one won’t be enough!


BLACKFELLOW FASHION
“Mine tinkit, Mary, Joe Cahill soon be calling us in to advise on his transport problems.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Caucus "Justice "
The delicate nuances of “Labor”-party
morality are well illustrated by the deci-
sions of the Queensland “Labor” caucus
which decided last week that Mr.
Creighton, chairman of the Land
Administration Board, must be sacked.
It will be noted that the sacking has to
be done by Parliament, which sits in
open session, but caucus is now brazenly
the real Parliament of the State. And
although it makes its decisions in secret
debate and merely issues its orders to
Parliament, Queensland has gone so far
along the road to dictatorship that the
position is accepted as a matter of
course by everybody.
Mr. Creighton, born in 1900, has been
an employee of the Queensland Lands
Department since 1923. At 44 he was a
land commissioner; in 1948 the board’s
trusted chief inspector; in 1951 a mem-
ber of the board. In 1953 he became
its chairman. He interrupted his official
career to serve four years with the Royal
Australian Engineers during the war,
holding the rank of major.
The reason why he is ordered to be
sacked is that, apparently aghast at what
he thought was going on in the
Ministerial Office of the Lands Depart-
ment, and feeling, somewhat strangely,
that it was no use dealing with the Gov-
ernment on the matter, he took his
suspicions, sometimes groundless and
sometimes far from groundless, to a Mr.
Williams, an official of the A.W.U., who
relayed them to “The Worker” and to
Mr. Bukowski, the High Panjandrum of
the A.W.U. Mr. Bukowski was so
impressed with what he heard that he
demanded that Parliament should give
him privilege at the Bar of the State’s
shabby and discredited single legislative
House so that he should be able to expose
what was going on under privilege.
. As a result of repetition in the Federal
Senate of some of Mr. Creighton’s and
Mr. Bukowski’s and “The Worker’s”
allegations, the royal commission to
“inquire into and report on allegations
of corruption relating to dealings with
certain Crown leaseholds in Queens-
land” was set up.
Mr. Justice Townley, while he was
unable to find evidence to support some
of the charges levelled against the
Minister, Mr. T. A. Foley, found that the
Minister exhibited gross partiality in six
matters concerned with the affairs of a
pastoralist, Robert Stanley White, and
that in respect of one of them he
“exempted Mr. White from the perform-
ance of [certain] conditions for the
benefit of Mr. White, and because he
was Mr. White, and with those motives
only.” And he was “satisfied that he
acted in disregard of his duty as a
Minister of the Crown, and that his
conduct in so acting, with the motives
above indicated, constituted corrupt
conduct.”
He was also satisfied that “on Decem-
ber 14, 1949, the Minister did solicit
from Mr. [Francis] Bell the gift of £lOOO
to the Labor-party funds in return for
which, the Minister stated, Mr. Bell
would receive the grant, or favorable
consideration of the grant, of a stud
lease for Camboon. In my opinion, this
clearly amounts to corrupt conduct on
the part of the Minister.”
With only one dissentient —Dr. Felix
Dittmer, of Mt. Gravatt —caucus ordered
the servile Mr. Gair to move a motion
in Parliament for the dismissal of Mr.
Creighton on the ground “of misconduct
as a, Crown employee in that he com-
municated information to unauthorised
. persons.”
A summary of the position was ven-
tured by Mr. Bukowski, who said that
“the point is that the Lands Royal
Commission found that a member of the
Labor party was guilty of corrupt prac-
tices. It did not find Creighton guilty
of anything except an indiscretion. But
the person who was found guilty of
corrupt conduct participated in yester-
day’s debate and vote on Creighton.”
If this is true, the position would be
scandalous anywhere but in Queensland
“politics.”
There is a suggestion that the Q.C.E.
of the “Labor” party will prove more
secretive about Mr. Foley’s continuance
as a party-member than did caucus.
Manners and Magistrates
“Symonym” : Mr. Reg. Mohr had a
splendid send-off from the chief magis-
tracy of Melbourne City Court from
silvertongues, brother-magistrates and
executive policemen, a spontaneous
gesture of high admiration for that
increasingly rare fellow, a gentleman.
Manners maketh magistrates, too.
Mohr had a strong sympathy for the
poor, for old men, whether or not they
had blemished records, and for
youngsters. (His hair must have stood
on end, as does mine, at some of the press
reports of arrogance from the police-court
benches in Sydney and Adelaide.) His
aversions were violence and thieving.
He was invariably kindly to nervous
policemen in their first cases, stumbling
young solicitors, and, indeed, all honest
triers ; he has a nice wit, and a deep
appreciation of a magistrate’s task.
“The conviction of an innocent man
must be avoided at all costs,” he said
frequently, usually when there was just a
doubt in a case; and the result was that
not only was justice done, but it seemed
to be done.
After Winsor, What?
The Winsor (radio-announcer) era
in the N. S. Wales railways
ended last Wednesday with the resigna-
tion of the commissioner (to take
effect from yesterday) after he had
received an ultimatum from Cahill and
after Cabinet had agreed to pay him
£15,000 retiring-allowance in addition to
superannuation.
Announcing Winsor’s resignation in the
Assembly, Cahill introduced a bill to
amend the law so as to enable the appoint-
ment of a commissioner for a limited
period. The purpose of this, he said,
was to cover the time during which the
Ebasco investigations were being carried
out. The law at present provides for a
seven-year term, but when Winsor was
appointed he apparently gave the Govern-
ment a written undertaking to retire at
65 ; he reached that age a few weeks ago.
The bill was rushed through the
Assembly and Council by,the use of the
gag.
It was assumed even before Winsor
resigned that the job would go to Neil
McCusker, who ran the railways last year
while the commissioner was ill and has
since been acting as a second-in-command
without command. But some people
have other ideas. J. D. Kenny, M.L.C..
expressed a personal opinion which also
happens to accord with “Labor’s” tradi-
tional policy regarding appointments to
big jobs.
Speaking in the Legislative Council,
Kenny said: —-
An ex-member of the Chamber, now
chairman of the Milk Board, is a man who
worked his way from the lowest position in
the service. He left the service to become
secretary of the A.R.U. He is a man who
has proved his ability since he became
chairman of the Milk Board. That is the
type of commissioner I would prefer.
J. A. Ferguson, the man Kenny would
like to see running the N.S.W. railways,
was one of a batch of political appoint-
ments made by the Cahills a few years
ago—McGirr to the Maritime Services
Board and Finnan to the Hunter District
Water Authority were two other glaring
examples, but there were plenty more.
At the time of his appointment Ferguson
was not only secretary of the A.R.U.
and a member of the Legislative Council.
He was also State president of the A.L.P.
As chairman of the Milk Board he has
impressed Kenny with his administrative
ability. Kenny gave no details, but pos-
sibly he was referring to the fact that the
people of N. S. Wales have to pay more
for their milk than those of any other
State.
In the present bankrupt state of the
N.S.W. railways even the Cahills wouldn’t
dare to put a political appointee in
Winsor’s chair, but Kenny’s recommen-
dation is quite understandable. If
Ferguson became railways commissioner
there’d be a new Milk Board chairman
needed. And who better suited for the
post than another M.L.C., trade-union
secretary and A.L.P. official, ready and
willing to prove his ability as an adminis-
trator?
Crown and Scientist
In a reserved judgment which didn’t
leave the Victorian Crown Law Depart-
ment a fig-leaf, Pyvis, S.M., has dismissed
a charge against Associated Newspapers
(Sydney) of having distributed obscene
reading-matter. The article appeared in
“People” on May 30.
Bengt Danielsson, a Swedish scientist,
wrote the popular book Love in the
South Seas, and the article was taken
from it. There were 10 pages of it in
“People”; some maps of some of the
island mentioned and seven pictures,
excluding the cover, in two of which a
Polynesian woman’s breasts appeared.
They were less noticeable and more
natural than those of the expensively
clothed American cinema-star now in
London. All the pictures were posed
and attractive.
Danielsson, who was last heard of
driving his family around Australia in a
caravan for material for a book, was the
only Swede in the all-Danish Kon-Tiki
expedition which drifted on a raft of
balsa-wood from Peru to Tahiti in 1947,
and he spent, as an anthropologist, a
considerable time on research into the
sexual behavior of the natives and their
South Sea neighbors.
Evidence of this first-hand study is
clear, and it is annotated appositely. Its
thesis is the finding by anthropologists
and sociologists at Yale University that,
after a study of the sexual habits of 118
peoples, only two (negro) peoples have as
puritanical approach as Westerners, so
that the Polynesians, who go to the other
extreme, should be studied for compari-
son, and possibly benefit.
The article was serious in purpose,
chiefly directed at contrasting our
morality and the limited “free love” of
the Polynesians. The most contentious
aspects of it were those directed to the
preparation, or lack of restraints, in
educating children on sex. Danielsson
pointed out there was no thumb-sucking,
contrariness, bed-wetting, day-dreaming,
stammering, nail-biting, nervousness or
CEdipus-complex among the youngsters ;
and, of course, no venereal disease until
the Europeans arrived.
Pyvis, one of Melbourne’s senior
magistrates, pointed out that the book, a
serious study in anthropology, could not
be the subject of a charge of obscenity,
and the article consisted of a number of
extracts from it:
I would like to say here.... the photo-
graphs are not obscene... .1 think it would
be fair to say the article contains a descrip-
tion of some of the sexual habits of
Polynesians, commends their attitude
towards sex matters and criticises the
Western attitude The article certainly
emphasises matters of sex, but not unduly,
since the emphasis does not tend to deprave
or corrupt.
Mr. Pyvis did not throw a crumb to
the Crown Law Department.
Old Friends Part
One of the saddest results of the
denunciation of the “cult of the
individual” and the dethronement of
Stalin as the god-head of Communism
is the manner in which old friendship
are being severed. Not that friendship
is a sentiment which has much potency
in the Communist world, especially when
the cult of the mass and the committee
is in the ascendancy.
What matters is not brotherhood as
between man and man. The “enthusiasm
and co-operation of the workers and
peasants in their masses” {vide Lenin,
the restored god-head) matter more tfyan
friendship, this “contagion, this plague,
this ulcer that Socialism has inherited
from the capitalists,” which is apt to
make good men pause when they are
about to raise the revolver and shoot
in the back of the neck the father, or
brother, or schoolfellow who is a hurdle
between the righteous and Socialism.
Still, the Communist Party of Aus-
tralia must have felt some qualms when
it read the news from Hungary last
week. In a fortnight it will have been
34 years ago that the embryo party in
Sydney received from Berlin a telegram
addressed to the local secretary:
United Communist Party’s application
for affiliation accepted. Party now listed
as Comintern’s Australian section. Unity
Conference September cancelled.
[Signed] Rakosi.
General Secretary, Communist International.
Thus, Comrade Rakosi, an evil, hair-
less revolutionary from Hungary, became
Australian Communism’s first boss.
Since the war Comrade Rakosi had
been head of the bloody, illegal and
horror-scented regime which was called
the Government of Hungary, a country
cut off from the civilised West by barbed-
wire barriers and machine-guns. He
was instrumental in holding a light-
hearted nation prisoner of Moscow by
force in his capacity as First Secretary
of the Hungarian Communist party and
de facto head of the State.
Now he has resigned, no doubt feeling
lucky that the soft attitude of the
Moscow dictators makes it inadvisable
for them to shoot him in the back of the
neck, as they \yould no doubt like to do
to please his bitter enemy, Marshal Tito.
He resigned at a public meeting, having
announced that since the 20th Congress
of the Communist party in Moscow he
had come to realise the gravity of his
mistakes in adopting the Stalin theories
and against the laws of Socialism. He
admitted that he had done great damage
to the party and that if he stayed at his
post it would hamper the development
of Socialism and give its enemies a basis
of attack. So the meeting adopted a
resolution praising his “historic merits.”
He is obviously an awkward bit of
furniture to have about for a Kremlin
which is trying to soft-soap the churches
and the West, not to mention Tito.
Also getting the aged terrorist out of
the way has enabled the Kremlin to
slip into his job Comrade Gero, who
has been just as devout a Stalinist as
Comrade Rakosi—their careers have been
of a kind. It has not yet been
announced when Comrade Rakosi will
have his heart-attack.
Drinking, Speed and Death
“Stromlo” : It might be a good idea for
the State police, before they grant or
renew a driving-licence, to conduct an
examination of the applicant on the
grim tables of road-traffic accidents which
the Statistician in Canberra furnishes
regularly to a largely unconcerned com-
munity. The totals for Australia are bad
enough, with the immense tragedy and
suffering covered by the fact that in
1954-55 there were 36,602 accidents
involving casualties, 2042 persons killed
and 46,465 injured (all totals being
records of their sort); but the analysis
of causes is the really thought-provoking
section. This table, covering a couple
of foolscap pages, should be reprinted
in large type and given to every motor-
cyclist and motorist in the country.
It shows, among a variety of matlers,
that accidents to motor-vehicles (exclud-
ing motor-cycles) from “excessive speed
having regard to conditions” numbered
1333, from which there were 92 dead
and 1109 injured. For motor-cyclists the
corresponding totals were 197,19 and 186.
Cases where the driver was intoxicated
—and the figures here are probably far
fewer than the real total —numbered 715,
with 22 deaths and 325 injured. Only 24
riders of motor-cycles were drunk.
Greatest single cause of accidents listed
is “inattentive driving,” which resulted in
5631 accidents but only 58 deaths and
1863 injured. Failure to give right of
way at intersections caused 3680
accidents, with 20 deaths and 1420
injured. Inattentive riding by motor-
cyclists caused 14 deaths and 375 cases
of injury.
It must be admitted, of course, that
1612 pedestrians and 10 drivers of animal-
drawn vehicles or riders of animals also
caused accidents, but between them all
they caused only 85 deaths.
The whole horrible tally demonstrates
yet again the fearful disregard by an
alarming proportion of motorists of even
the elementary rules of safety and
courtesy. They are careless of their own
lives and recklessly indifferent to the
lives and property of others. Their
selfishness makes the roads of Australia
an annual battlefield which the nation
cannot afford and should not be forced to
suffer. The statistics are grim enough.
What further action can be taken to make
offenders really suffer in proportion to
the agony they cause?
Suez
The hysterical dictatorship of Egypt
seems to be approaching a crisis in its
turgid and dishonest career as Colonel
Nasser, its local Hitler, fans the flames of
hate against the West, which has
declined to help him build the Aswan
Dam.
His Government is not a good risk for a
loan. It has shown a Moscow-like tendency
to treat agreements as one-sided. It has lost no
chance of antagonising Britain, in particular,
by abuse. It has intrigued with Moscow, allowed
the Kremlin to make Cairo an organising-
centre for the cold- and hot-war in Africa, has
accepted arms and military and atomic
technical help from behind the Iron Curtain,
and, of late months, has shown a tendency to
hold-up the possibility of adhesion to the Com-
munist bloc as a blackmailing weapon to
bludgeon the West into meeting its demands.
One of its projects on which it approached
the United States, Britain and the World Bank
last year was the High Dam at Aswan, by which
it was proposed to raise the water-level of the
barrage built by British genius and enterprise
to produce large new irrigated areas and large
quantities of water-power.
In December last it was agreed that the
United States would grant $56 million and
Britain $l4 million towards the $lOB million
needed for the preliminary work, and it was
foreshadowed that the World Bank would float
a loan of $2OO million, contingent on the U.S.-
U.K. aid, of the $l3OO million needed for the
whole project.
For the second stage it was forecast that
the U.S.-U.K. would lend a further $l3O
million. It was made clear that any agreement
would depend on an undertaking between Egypt
and the Sudan to share the Nile waters.
Up to the present this Egyptian-Sudan agree-
ment has not been completed, and Egypt’s
proceedings in the negotiation have not inspired
confidence.
In June, Nasser,- with his usual lack of tact,
held celebrations to mark the ousting of the
United Kingdom from Egypt, and inflammatory
anti-British speeches were made. Comrade
Shepilov, U.S.S.R. Foreign Secretary, was
invited as special guest, and Cairo reports,
which seemed to come from official sources,
declared that he had pressed the Egyptian
Government to accept a loan to cover the
o Continued on next page)


entire cost of the dam. He refused to admit
or deny the report.
On July 16, President Eisenhower having
postponed his departure for S. America, where
he and Mr. Dulles were to attend the Simon
Bolivar anniversary celebrations, the U.S. State
Department suddenly replaced Mr. Byroade,
Ambassador to Cairo, who has been noted
as an apologist for the Nasser regime’s policy,
by Raymond Hare, an authority on the Middle
East and director-general of the State Depart-
ment’s foreign service. Other switches were
made to strengthen Middle Eastern
representation.
The same day, the Egyptian Ambassador to
Washington, Ahmed Hussein, returned to the
United States and next day told the press that
he wanted to speed-up negotiations for the
dam agreement —it had been stated in Cairo the
week before that Shepilov, after all, had been
cold towards the proposal. Ahmed Hussein
announced that “we’ve decided what we want
to do. It is now up to the West.”
Meanwhile, the tight attitude of the Senate
Appropriation Committee had made the agree-
ment difficult for the United States even if the
Executive wished to carry on, which was
doubtful. The committee had inserted in the
Appropriation Bill a clause which provided that
the U.S. contributions should not be made
under the Act save with the express approval
of the committee.
On July 19 the United States Government
announced that it was not feasible in present
circumstances for the U.S. to participate in
financing the project, though this did not affect
the friendly relations of the U.S.A. towards the
Egyptian Government and people.
Both the U.K. and the World Bank were
apparently taken by surprise, though there was
speculation as to whether the Egyptians were not
actually tied up with Russia and had only
renewed their request when they found that
Congress would be likely to encourage a refusal,
which would give Nasser an excuse to cement
an arranged liaison with Moscow. This feeling
was stronger in view of Nasser’s pending visit
to Moscow.
At any rate, it was later clear that the with-
drawal of the British and World Bank offers
were made after consultation with the United
States, and that the whole decision was generally
based on economic grounds, due to the fact
that Egypt’s foreign-exchange position was
shaky. Its purchase of Communist arms means
that much of the Egyptian cotton output, its
most important foreign-exchange export-
medium, would go to Czechoslovakia and
Hungary, while its ballooning industrial plans,
made without regard to the country’s real
resources, would be calculated soon to
affect disastrously its foreign-trade balances.
The decisions were met with the usual
unbridled Egyptian fury. Officials at once
suggested that the new Western policy might
mean “pushing Egypt into the Eastern orbit,”
and that it was obviously due to Jewish pressure
and U.S. anger at Nasser’s recognition of Red
China and building-up of trade with the
Eastern bloc.
Within a week came Nasser’s reprisal in the
shape of the Egyptian Government’s sudden
seizure of the Suez Canal, in which the British
Government holds 353,000 shares out 0f.800,000,
with eight directors in a board of 32; the
French having 15, the Egyptians 7 —increased
by two in 1949—the U.S. and the Dujtch each
one.
Egypt, apart from what it gets out of the
company, takes 7 per cent. p.a. of the gross
profit, and the canal was to revert, under the
original concession-agreement, to the Egyptian
Government in 1968.
Since over 13,000 vessels, totalling over
100 million tons and carrying more than 600,000
passengers, pass through the Canal in a peak
year—a third being British —and the gross
receipts per annum approach £A45,000,000, it is
a colossal expropriation. Egypt’s promise of
compensation can hardly be taken at its face-
value. Perpetual free passage of the Canal
is guaranteed in the original convention.
The British Government, with the full support
of every section of Parliament, lost no time
in retaliating. While crowds danced with joy
as Nasser yelled his intention of “building the
High Dam on the skulls of Egyptians
who died in building the Suez Canal,” the British
Cabinet decided to freeze Egypt’s public and
private sterling balances and alssets and deny
Egypt access to sterling. France followed suit.
Nasser than banned exports to ihe sterling area.
Only a little of Egypt’s trade is done in
dollars. Apart from barter agreements with
the Communist bloc, the whole of Egyptian
trade is now in British handcuffs. Also, it
prevents Egypt making use of dues on the Canal,
since they are payable in sterling.
The United States official spokesman expressed
himself “shocked by the many intemperate,
inaccurate and misleading statements” made by
Nasser in his speeches to frenzied Egyptian
mobs and fully backs the British action, as do
the French, who have already strongly protested.
Mr. Dulles, who was in Peru, moved hastily
to London to take part in the Three Power
Conference which already is in progress, and
which probably will invoke the powers of
U.N.O. in view of Nasser’s statement that “the
Egyptian nation has itself proclaimed a general
mobilisation today. We shall meet force with
force and march forward to realise our freedom
and consolidate our sovereignty.”
It remains to be seen whether this statement
arose from a prescience that his grab would
probably be followed by a reoccupation of the
Canal Zone by the British or an international
force, or part of a plot with the Soviet Union
to promote an Arab war to throw the West
out of the Middle Eastern oilfields.
Britain and the Dominions are themselves
largely to blame for the situation in having
feebly yielded control of the Canal Zone, which
is the lifeline of Western trade and defence
to an irresponsible junta as hysterical as Hitler’s.
It, however, has plenty of means of reprisal,
mostly economic.
Australia is, of course, vitally interested, and
will take the strongest stand. It is a pity that
it didn’t follow the forceful lead of Sir Earle
Page and stop the surrender to the Egyptians
in its beginnings.
POLITICAL POINTS
Hore-Belisha, one-time U.K. Minister
for War, suggests building a canal from
the Gulf of Akaba through Israel to Gaza
to replace Sifez. Out of the hands of the
Egyptians into the hands of the Jews!
• •
Evatt, criticising the Government for
refusing to cut the migrant quota, said
the intake was highly inflationary and
“they are tumbling in at a rate which the
economy cannot possibly absorb.” Your
cue, Deputy-leader Calwell!.
• •
It’s a far cry from August Bank Holiday
crowds on London’s ’Ampstead ’Eath to
blackouts in Sydney, but there is a con-
nection. Following the English tradition,
Sydney banks and insurance - offices
observe Bank Holiday, but it’s a hybrid
holiday—parts of commerce and industry
observe it, parts don’t. The Electricity
Commission is among those that don’t.
But employees of some of the power-
houses which were formerly tinder the
control of the railways claim they’ve
been robbed of a holiday—or, to be more
precise, of holiday-pay. Last year they
took the day off and this year they’re
threatening to do the same—and to shut-
down the plant before they leave. Crazy?
Yes, but it’s just another legacy of the
loose paternalism that got the railways
into their present mess.
• •
A deputation from U.L.V.A. asked
Fadden to reduce the excise on beer,
pleading that the industry is threatened
with unemployment because of the reduc-
tion in the consumption of beer. Fadden
said he would put their case to the
Government. The Bungs are squawking
a little too soon. If past history is any
guide the hot weather, when it comes,
will soon restore the “lost” consumption.
If it doesn’t, the country will be that
much better-off.
• •
Gus Kelly, Chief Secretary in Cahill’s
Cabinet, told a party meeting in Bathurst
that it was time for “Labor” to do a bit
of rethinking and reforming. He said
he didn’t care what "was ironed-out “as
long as it is ironed-out.” Them’s brave
words, but doesn’t it depend on who does
the ironing and who gets flattened?
• •
The British Caribbean Federation Bill,
now before the House of Commons, is
described by Sir David Gammans, M.P.,
as “not merely a passport to political
freedom, but a sort of Magna Charta to
the great West Indian nation under the
British Crown.” The Constitution of the
new Federation is described as being “on
the Australian pattern.” In that case it’s
to be hoped they make sure to start with
that they know what they mean by
Section 92 or its equivalent.
• •
A firm at Gateshead (England) which
manufactures mobile shops mounted on
five-ton diesel-trucks has just booked an
order for three for Russia, to be used to
serve collective farms. Sixty of the shops
have already been sold to Turkey.
• •
Woolgrowers, confronted with both a
rising demand and with increasing use of
synthetic fibres, are being urged by the
Government to spend more money on
promotion and research. Minister for
Primary Industry McMahon told the
Woolgrowers’ Council that world
expenditure on wool-textile research was
only about £A2 million a year, compared
with £AIS million spent by four countries
—U.S.A., Britain, West Germany and
Italy—on man-made fibre research. Even
allowing for the 2s. a bale paid by the
Commonwealth, research-funds in Aus-
tralia are now insufficient, he told them.
Unless more money is found the work
will have to slow down.
• •
J. T. Kane, the deposed assistant-
secretary of the sacked N.S.W. executive
of the A.L.P., has been appointed
organising-secretary of the Industrial
Labor Organisation, formed to continue
the fight against the Reds within the
trade-union movement —in other words,
the successor to the industrial-groups.
The formation of the 1.L.0. is logical,
but the same can’t be said for the yam
that a body opposed to Communism is
trying to organise a new Labor party
composed chiefly of New Australians.
There is room for all New Australians
within the existing political parties. Any-
one who tries to band them into a
separate party is hampering their assimila-
tion and doing a disservice to them and
to Australia.
• •
Final paragraph of the joint state-
ment issued by Tito, Nasser and Nehru
after their talk at Brioni, Yugoslavia, on
July 19:
The three Heads of Governments
recognise that the problems of the world
cannot be settled at one step; that it is
necessary to persevere patiently and with
goodwill in attempts to find solutions. It
is essential, however, that every effort
should be made to create a climate of
peace and to act in accordance with the
basic principles laid down in the Charter of
the United Nations.
One week later Nasser demonstrated his
patience and goodwill by grabbing the
Suez Canal.
• •
The other day Solicitor-General Harry
Winneke with the silvertongues Barwick,
INFANTILE ENTERPRISE
D. I. Menzies and Menhennit conferred
on the case for the Victorian Govern-
ment’s challenge to the validity of uni-
form taxation. Then they talked it over
with Acting-Premier Rylah, giving details
of the advanced state of the case which
they expect to come before the High
Court in Melbourne within three months.
The next day, by a remarkable coinci-
dence, Arthur Fadden wired Rylah that
Victoria would get a £1,050,000 tax-
bonus from the Commonwealth this
year.
No word of the Melbourne meeting
had leaked to the dailies ; the conference
had seemingly been strictly private; but
Canberra apparently has its ear to the
ground. Rylah dryly released news of the
legal discussions on the same day as
Fadden’s announcement, without com-
ment on the coincidence or the alacrity
of the statement; the hearing is still
expected in October. “
• •
“Mugga Way”: The V-C.s who went to
Britain have written to the Prime
Minister, through Brigadier A. S. Black-
burn, expressing their “very deep
appreciation of and gratitude for the
generosity of the Australian Government
in connection with the V.C. centenary
celebrations.” They found the tour of war-
cemeteries in France and Belgium a
wonderful experience, and concluded:
We desire to dissociate ourselves from
certain views, expressed in Australia and
published in portions of the Australian
press, which accuse the Government of
“niggardly” treatment of the contingent.
In our view the Government has acted with
extreme generosity.
So much for the criticism of those
leather-medal warriors in Canberra who
tried to make political capital out of the
financial worries of some of the V-C.s 1
Some statistics on stolen cars, given
by Thompson, M.L.C., in the course of a
debate in the N.S.W. Legislative Council
on the Second-hand Motor Dealers’ Bill.
In 1955, in N.S.W., 3825 cars and 1181
motor-cycles were reported stolen. Of
these 5006 vehicles, 4702 were recovered.
Arrests for illegally using vehicles totalled
867. In the year ended June 30, 1956,
98 vehicles insured with N.R.M.A.
Insurance, Ltd., were reported stolen and
77 were recovered. Claims met or out-
standing on the missing cars totalled
£17,575. Of the 98 cars stolen, 71 were
Holdens. In proportion to registrations
this figure would have been about 33.
Thompson suggested that G.M.-H.
“might well be concerned at the large
number of Holdens that are stolen ’ and
might well devote a little money to mak-
ing their car more theftproof. He said
one improvement would be to make the
gear-lock, which is at present sold as an
“extra,” standard equipment. A similar
suggestion was made a short time ago in
the Victorian Parliament, but G.M.-H.
apparently didn’t hear it.
• •
For vessels from Australia the alterna-
tive route to Britain and Europe via the
Cape is not much longer than via Suez,
but for the passage from India, Singapore
and the Far East the difference is very
considerable. And for oil-tankers from
the Persian Gulf it is out of the ques-
tion ; it would mean more than doubling
the number of tankers required, and
tankers don’t exist in such numbers.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Murderers who trade on
“Labor” antipathy to capital punishment
(B. 18/7/’56) aren’t always lucky. About
30 years ago Roy Rennie, when arrested
in Perth for the murder of a bank-officer,
said, “Of course, they don’t hang people
in this State.” Unfortunately for him,
his crime was committed just before two
policemen were murdered near Kal-
goorlie. The Government could scarcely
pass over the callous killing of two police-
officers in the execution of their duty, so,
as a preliminary to the hanging of the
goldfields criminals, Rennie, in due
course, took the 8 a.m. walk at Fremantle
jail.
o •
Albert Sloss, “Labor” M.L.A. for
King, tells the N.S.W. Assembly the
causes of child-delinquency:
The principal causes have been the
rising cost of living, unemployment, leav-
ing school before the permissible school-
leaving age owing to poverty and bad
conditions, lack of economic security and
of cultural and sporting interests during and
after the war, and a migration policy that
has augmented the population by 125,000
annually.
Four minutes later:
Whereas at one time child-delinquency
was rampant in the industrial areas of
Redfem, Surry Hills and Woolloomooloo,
today even the children of wealthy people
are delinquents.
• •
The Prime Minister is expected to return from
his world tour on August 28 —if the Egyptian
crisis does not bring him earlier. He will visit
south-east Asian countries —Thailand, Malaya,
Singapore and Indonesia after August 15 —on
his way home from Tokyo. The Cabinet will
begin to consider the Budget on August 7 and
it will be completed after the wage-conference
with the Premiers on August 16. The House
will meet on August 29, when the Speaker,
Archie Cameron, who has been convalescing
at Mackay (Q.), expects to resume the Chair.
Fadden plans to introduce the Budget as soon
as Parliament meets—-probably on August 30.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T'O complete the current (“Bulltin”)
issue of Sydney University’s “Honi
S aif* one must remark: It isn’t what it
used'to be.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ***
“Bookie’s Dog”: A Melbourne
journalist attributes the success of Aus-
tralian sportsmen overseas to what he
calls our national dish —steak-and-eggs.
(ke to bet we consume more meat
wrapped in pie-crust than garnished with
eggs The meat-pie is to Australia what
fbe n d-chips are to England and the hot-
lag to America. That’s why I don’t
a Sid Barnes really meant to dis-
,e >our Test team when he called them
he biggest bunch of pie-eaters that ever
left Australia.”
❖ ❖
“Ago|;ue”: I am told of a junior
school-pupil who turned in an essay about
a dream itoe had, in which his brother was
run-over and killed, whereupon his
father said, “How terrible that’s one less
mouth to *feed.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nunk” :) There is nothing impossible
to the man ;who can offer a suitable quid
for his quo, But how should a boy of
twelve know’ this? “Can I read my comic
at die table*} I’ve got one for you.” I
was about td blast him out of the room
when I noticed that the comic he had for
me was an i4f Archie”-teenager comic of
which I am particularly fond; and we
were settling down to eating and reading
when his mother took her place, took in
the situation, and opened her mouth —
into which he thrust, figuratively, a
“Katzenjammer Kids” comic which he
knew would be irresistible. Thus things
proceed at our place.
*l*
“Giotto”: The trouble with Sydney
art seems to be that too many are trying
to draw like children before they learn
to draw like adults.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chumly”: The “Are you U?” dis-
cussions of English ways of disconcert-
ing the low-born with test-words like
“Swim-suit” for “bathing-suit” and “sick”
for “ill” are calculated to depress those
who have not learned to give up trying.
Because you really haven’t
got a chance. You learn
painfully that it is not
“Derby” but “Darby,” and
then the one man entitled to
pronounce says that, as for
him, he has never called it
anything else but “Derby” ;
or you master the tilting
of the soup-plate and the
niceties of asparagus, and
then your thoughtful host
serves cherries .. . Only those
can properly assess the rules who were
born to them: “You see, the servants
make the rules and they are the judges,”
an English aristocrat told the American
violinist Spalding; “we just can’t win.”
And to whom are the “U”-cultivators
more related: that aristocrat, or the
servants’ hall?
* *l* ♦>
“Smithy”: Hobart barbers have come
up with a newy. Apart from a general
increase of a zack-a-pop for a short-
around-the-back-and-sides-and-a-drop-of-
oil any job over 15 minutes is to be extra.
Will there be time-out for discussing the
last at Flemington and Randwick? Not
one of the saloons I duck into on odd
occasions has a clock; perhaps a time-
keeper will be put on the payroll, and the
15-minute haircut will become as famous
as the minute-steak and the three-minute-
egg. But as a term of contempt —we shall
read in novels of some poor relation : “a
seedy person with a 15-minute haircut.”
+>
“Becks”: Wonder what was behind
this ad. in a Sydney suburban paper a
few Saturdays ago? “For sale, Room-
heater [trade name given]. Bought
Monday. Used Twice. £13.”
tjt <£♦
“Allan B”: If “C.A.L.” (B. 11/7/’56)
lived in Ballarat (Vic.) he wouldn’t be
troubled by the early-morning milk-oh.
Most dairies there are trying out even-
ing deliveries. The idea is partly to
save the milkmen that early-morning
freeze, but it’s also hoped the change
will put a stop to the swiping of milk-
money in the wee sma’ hours.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ilin”: Bill confided to Joe that he
had bet £4 at 25-to-l on a winner, and
on presenting his ticket the bookie haa
curtly denied that the undecipherable
scrawl was the name of the horse. “Give
me ten-bob and the ticket and I’ll collect
your money,” offered Joe. It was a holi-
day weekend and the horse was again
running on the Monday; at greatly
reduced odds, Joe invested the ten-bob
on its doubtful chances. Taking the two
tickets to the supervisor, Joe asked,
“Would you say these are for the same
horse?” “Definitely,” asserted the super.
Joe told the story. “Come with me,” said
the super, grimly, and together they con-
fronted the bookie. The super, asked to
see Saturday’s betting-sheets, and found
that a different horse had been entered
against the bet. “These tickets are
undoubtedly for the same horse,” said
the super. “Pay up, and if there’s any
more trouble you’ll go before the authori-
ties.” Joe later handed £lO4 to Bill:
“say, sport—where do I buy a driver's licence around here ?”
“Here’s your money, Bill, but I lost your
ten-bob.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Despite the fact that
Durham Cathedral (Bulletin cover,
11/7/’56) was commenced in 1093 and
building-operations continued for cen-
turies, the bulk of the building was com-
pleted within the first 50 years. The
Normans regarded the edifice as the seal
of their conquest of the country. Though
largely Norman, the building was strongly
influenced by the Celtic architecture
known chiefly through Cormac’s chapel at
Cashel, Eire, which also preceded Dur-
ham with its rib-vaulting for the roof.
Durham’s pillars show strong Eastern
motifs and the design was very much
influenced by the Crusades. Regrettably,
the cathedral requires tens of thousands
sterling every year for heating to keep the
structure from disintegrating.
4sl'
“Doynest”: Ever mindful of the pro-
prieties, Melbourne “Age” reported that,
in a county-court case in which summer
frocks were the subject of dispute, two
models modelled ten of the frocks for
the court, “changing them in a near-by
room.” Had the models changed on the
spot, I suppose they’d have been com-
mitted for contempt of court —but you
never know. I recall that once in Mel-
bourne’s Chart House, where the con-
ciliation commissioners hold session, a
young advocate completely lost the
thread of his argument when a young
woman standing beside the window in a
building across the narrow lane effected
an almost complete change of clothing.
Nothing was said, but proceedings were
virtually suspended until all hands,
including the commissioner, were able to
give full attention to the matter under
discussion.
*s►
“Fair Mac”: As the tram clanked to
a stop a middle-aged woman, who had
been waiting there, darted to the driver’s
end. The driver, evidently, had seen her,
too ; he leaned far out of his cabin, and
the kiss he planted on the upturned lips
wasn’t a bad job for an old-’un. In due
course they broke and, beaming at each
other, engaged in earnest conversation.
Signal-strap in hand, the conductor, a
younger but obviously understanding
man, waited patiently. Finally, with a
noble regard for duty, the driver broke
il off. Another fervent piece of oscula-
tion and both participants returned to
their respective spheres. Paris? Vienna?
No; Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
“Ilin”: Tall and thin, with a very
short bristly crew-cut, he was known in
naval stores by the distinguishing number
for long-handled brushes used exclusively
for cleaning toilets. One day in Stores
Blue spotted him holding one of these
brushes, and called out “Hold it level with
your head.” Puzzled, the lofty one
obeyed, whereupon Blue cracked, “Which
twin has the Toni Perm?”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Smithy”: Further to “Yakipan’s” par.
(B. 4/7/’56) on the proposed Bass Strait
ferry, there’s a good old barney raging in
north Tassie as to where the terminal will
be. Premier Cosgrove is determined on
Devonport, despite yells, screams and
bellows of rage from Launceston.
Northern councils are putting in their,
yeas and nays, depending on their
distance from Devonport. The most
interested, but silent, bods are those that
buy untold acres for the erection of
service-stations. It’s an even-money bet
that anyone who owns land near the
drive-on-dri ve-ofl: spot will be able to
retire before the ship completes her first
run.
» ❖ ❖
“DJ.G.”: Test broadcasts? Twenty-
two years ago, as a resident master in a
boarding-school, I was confronted with
the unprecedented request from the
fourth-formers for permission to go to
bed at eight-thirty instead of the regula-
tion nine-o’clock. Most of the lads had
rigged-up crystal-sets in the dormitories
to listen to the cricket: the nights the
Tests were on, a deep and unusual silence
reigned throughout the school.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Galah”: At a party it was suggested
that a society should be formed “for the
promotion of neglected positives.” This
began when one of the girls wondered
aloud if it were possible to look “skance,”
or stand with her arms “kimbo.” When
we thought, there were lots of them. Is,
for instance, a kind and considerate per-
son “ruth”? Is an ordinary pencil
“delible”? Shall Ibe as dignant if this
par. is published as I will be indignant if
it isn’t?
“Opsimath”: “Some circumstantial
evidence is very strong, as when you
find a trout in the milk,” wrote Thoreau.
But the Box Hill (Vic.) housewife who
found a fish in the lettuce she bought
from the greengrocer is pretty certain it
got there by accident in field or flood.
**♦ ***
“Quo Vadis”: My 13-year-old niece
doesn’t seem to be absorbing the basic
principles taught at her primary school. I
drew her attention to flies on her dinner
food. “Oh, that’s nothing,” she said
casually, “they’re only on the mashed-
potato. I never eat that, anyway!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: Lengthy book-titles (B.
25/7/’56)? The wordiest one I’ve come
■across was the autobiography of an early
Commissioner of Police in South Aus-
tralia —the man who gave the S.A.
mounted police their distinctive uniform. s
As far as I recollect it was The Life and
Adventures of Alexander Tolmer, Being
Reminiscences of a Chequered Career at
Home and in the Antipodes.
LIGHT VERSE
“The secretary of the N.S.W. Women’s
A. A. A.,. Mrs. Doris Magee, who wants
Marjorie Jackson to carry the Olympic torch
into the Games arena, has criticised the ruling
that women cannot take part in the torch-
relay.”
/ fear it’s not my place at all to barge
Into « sporting controversy ; and none
could be keener
On Lithgow’s Miss Jackson; but I don’t
think Our Marge
Should carry the torch into the
Olympic arena .
Don’t imagine, however, that I’d be so
rash
As to argue that woman is less
inflammable than man,
Or that l insinuate that the Lithgow Flash
Would be no better than a flash-in-the-
pan.
Everyone knows how fast Atalanta could
scorch,
But she was clever enough to lose for
the sake of a good catch ;
And it is hypocritical for a woman to
carry a torch
When she has made a satisfactory
match.
Ah, why within the heart of every dame
Serene among her aspidistras and
lobelias
Lurks this desire to break into a flame
And melt in tears like dew upon
camellias?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


LAST season’s testimonial cricket-
match in aid of Arthur Mailey and
Johnny Taylor had, for me, a specially
entertaining opening. After the two
former Test-players had shaken hands
with the teams, Mailey was handed a
ball and Taylor a bat. Mailey strolled
nonchalantly to position, complete in his
best Sunday-suit, took a short run and
clean-bowled Taylor, the whole perform-
ance taking about 30 seconds. Of all the
thousands of spectators I expect I was
the most moved —Arthur Mailey is my
father-in-law and I was witnessing my
first cricket-match. I’m a Canadian. —
“S.D.M.”
❖ A* ❖
“A.J.S.”: A full set of clothing near
the Harvey (W.A.) diversion-channel
started a hunt for a missing man. The
police-sergeant and a team of volunteers
covered 15 miles to the coast. Three days
later the quarry was run to earth in the
town jail, much more comfortable than
the searchers. He had wandered happily
into the rain until his clothes were as
soaked as he was, changed by the channel
and wandered back to town, where he was
arrested for drunkenness, no one thinking
to mention the matter to the sergeant.
♦j-
“Maitri”: It was to be the smartest
wedding of the year, and the bride wanted
the church decorated with blue and white
agapanthus, “Stars of Bethlehem,” so an
order was placed by phone for a gross.
Early on the Saturday afternoon of the
doings girl-friends invaded the church to
arrange the flowers, but found the sanc-
tuary crowded with 12-dozen green-
leaved aspidistras—the firm had combed
Sydney to muster them.
“Sir Jay”: That sportsmaster who gave
the girl-athletes embarrassing instructions
regarding dress (B. 25/7 / ’56) wasn’t
unique. Our sixth form was to travel
some miles to see “Richard III,” and a
notice was sent around the classrooms
outlining details of bus-travel. It ended:
“Boys are reminded that their behavior
must be beyond reproof. Dress: Ties,
sportscoats and caps.” “Any questions?”
asked the master. Yes, there was one.
“Please, sir, how does one behave beyond
reproof without trousers?”
“Helen, I wish you wouldn't hang your damned strides in my lowboy!"
“V.X.”: When, in the Malayan cam-
paign, our trucks were being shelled by
the Nips our officer, a Light Horseman
of the Kaiser’s war, told us we needn’t
worry about the shells we could hear ;
it was the ones you couldn’t hear that
were dangerous. In the next lull between
salvoes “Plum” Gage, a hard-case South
Aussie, spoke up: “Well, I can’t hear this
blankard, so look out /”
, „ „
v
JD.”: Operation Gratitude, launched
by Victorian R.S.L. with the substantial
help of the Governor and citizens, is to
help the quiet ones, the men and women
who thought they had served in the wars
without serious bodily injury, but who
now face lasting illness, an early death or
early senility, because of their service.
The R.S.L., which has done an excellent
job on newspaper-, shop- and street-
publicity, wants £250,000 for the erection
or development of centres for veterans
at Frankston, Elmore, Cheltenham and
Heidelberg, a hostel for war-nurses at St.
Kilda; the balance for R.S.L. work
among children.
♦♦♦ *> ♦>
“Rimutuka”: A decent-looking young
man entered the back-gate and approached
where I was gardening. Two cards he
showed indicated the charity he claimed
to represent and also that he was a deaf-
mute. I gave him a small donation and
watched him leave by the front-gate. As
he turned to close it his eye fell on the
“No Hawkers or Collectors” sign. He
was startled. “I didn’t see that no” ——
he began ; then clapped a hand to his
mouth, shot me a horrified look and fled.
My second experience in weeks (JB.
4/7/’56); I now view all charity-collectors
with suspicion.
❖ ❖
“Yair”: He’s not henpecked ; just the
very-willing type. But occasionally he
pulls up in the middle of some household
chore to take stock of himself. Yesterday,
elbow-deep in washing-up water at the
sink, he sighed: “Look at me! Before
I was married I had some personality.
Now I’m nothing but a face in the
steam! ”
*> ❖
“Postscript”: While I was surveying a
new Sydney subdivision for telephone-
cables a small boy and girl stopped play-
ing on the front lawn of their brand-new
home to ask me, “What are you doing,
mister?” “I’m going to give you a tele-
phone,” I said. “We don’t want none,”
the boy shouted. “My daddy’s a stinker
—he won’t come home.” “Yes,” shrilled
his tiny sister, “he’s a real ’tinker —he
doesn’t give Mummy any money.”
♦♦♦ * > *i*
“Willpar”: Many and often ingenious
are the ways devised to suggest to too-
well-entrenched evening guests that the
time has come to take their leave.
Humorists have thrashed the theme from
every angle, most relying on the undiplo-
matic approach, like having the hosts
appear in pyjamas. My host’s method
was so original I left without argument.
He walked to the phone (in the middle
of one of my best stories), dialled, listened
a moment, then interrupted me to say that
I was wanted. “Me? But you dialled
out!” “Right, but you’re wanted.”
Impatiently I walked to the phone,
anxious to continue my story. I picked
up the receiver and heard: “On the third
stroke the time will be . . . .”
A A
“Harry the Horse”: Putting the small
weekend joint on the scales to see what
time it would take to cook she noted that
although the scales said 31b. 6oz. the
butcher’s docket said “4£.” Thinking
this was a bit hot, she toddled down to
the shop to inquire “Whaffor?” It then
transpired that the figures were merely
that gentleman’s shorthand for a fore-
quarter. She had been charged for the
smaller weight. Picking up the parcel,
she retreated from Moscow.
*** * ***
“Falco”: Gangs of highly-paid workers
have been tinkering about with the Blue
Mountains section of the Western Line
for ages. We’re supposed to have electric
trains when enough rolling-stock can be
indented, millions-deficat notwithstand-
ing. But land prices miles from the line
are up like a fever-chart. Five years ago,
well knowing we were being properly
stung we bought two blocks, plus
habitable dwelling. Now, such is the
lure of promised electrification that two
“Any books on black-magic and illusion ?”
dud blocks next door, plus rocks and tea-
tree scrub, have just sold for a hundred
more than the price we paid our Dick
Turpin vendor.
<4 , :+
“Dorian”: Invited to a musical-
evening, I decided to do a Beethoven
sonata. Accordingly, played the thing,
thereby earning the pianist-hostess s
rather mixed acclamation . it r
intended piece Je resistance for the
evening.
*
“Hattie Hop”: When I was a child
there did not seem to 'be any difficulty
which my mother could not overcome
with the aid of a hairpin. With it she
could untie the most intricate knots in
a bootlace, fasten the most stubborn
shoe-buttons, run tape or elastic through
a casing, mend broken toys. Lately the
key to my wardrobe ceased to function,
rendering my winter dresses inaccessible
Outing a Jut of freezing weaken I
lock with various tools of his trade.
Finally he asked for a hairpin; it acted
on the locked door like magic.
„
* * v
“P.0.M.C.”: No one can tell me clocks
aren’t human! I have an ancient time-
piece which, when I’m impatiently waiting
for a favorite radio-sessi™ (or anything
. ~v , _ ,1
at aU) ‘uleusus the minutes with the
reluctance of a miser handmg-out livers.
But when, on Ihesc freezmg wmter nighty
in
awakening me almost immediately with
the news that it’s time to get up.
* * *
“TM”: Apart from deploring late
meals or shirts unwashed, I have never
taken great interest in my wife’s reading,
as her tastes, to my way of thinking, are
heavy in the extreme. Last Friday night I
noticed her ploughing through Pilgrim's
Progress for the second time; so when,
a few nights later, I called her without
answer on six" different occasions
I naturally placed the blame with Mr.
Bunyan. But shortly afterwards, when I
moved the absorbing book from the most
comfortable chair to a table, the title
caught my eye. It was Mates at Billabong,
which she had first read at the age of ten.
a a
* *
“Narumee”: He pulled-up and offered
me a lift. As I climbed into the shabby
old car I asked what had happened to
the gleaming, imported beauty he had
displayed a week or so back. He fiddled
about with the gears and said: “Well,
you see, it’s like this—l didn’t want the
wife bashing up the Buiilac, so I got this
one for her to run around in.” That
didn’t explain why he was driving it, so I
probed deeper. No, he hadn’t bashed-up
the Buiilac—it was only that the darned
gateway was so narrow!
* * *
“Looby”: America reckons it’s running
short of engineers and scientists because
Yank kids turn the thumbs down at
arithmetic. Seems that a psychology-
test was held simultaneously in Japan
and the U.S. to test schoolchildren s
reaction to maths. They were given
their choice of arithmetic or verbal prob-
lems. At 9th grade 69 per cent, of
Japanese children chose arithmetic, but
only 31 per cent, of American juniors
wanted it. Experts, of course, can
always find the reason for things—so
they say American kids are turning
against maths, because they’re laughed
| or counting on their fingers and are
mac j e to regard numbers as a purely
a^stract id ea , whereas Jap young-’uns
made abacus in 4th grade
consequently regard numbers as
concret £ toy J
* J
. . _
*5
. , „ _ ..
. Ex-Applex : I was escorting
m B ral }* r “™ d £h e*
year-old daughter, her little hand “Id
tightly in mine viewed with approval he
Swan ®* vcr ’ clock
quaint Sh George and Dragon
over London Court s entrance. Then,
a it
suddenly, W y , Aden
f u Jhatleryplace outside England
had that Eastern po g.
* *
“Pevin”: Didn’t realise, till a light-
globe exploded in my hand and gashed
the point of my thumb, how many small
services the thumb Ones. Tie your thumb
“P andtry wmdinga watch, b . ?
‘he cufi of your left sleeve a
matchbox and striking a match, releasing
( handbrakes with a press-
, , nir D inCT lin a cfxnence
th table or squeezing the last inch
- * toothpaste-tube,
* *
“Cunedda”: A German schoolmaster
is reported to have found the thief who
emptied his rabbit-hutch one weekend
by setting his class an essay on ;My
Sunday Dinner. Two pupils listed
rabbit-pie; police-investigation and an
arrest followed I wonder if ffie peda-
gogue had read the life of the 19th-
century Cornish poet-clergyman R. S.
Hawker of Morwenstow As a young
curate Hawker unearthed a thief by a
similar trick. A parishioner complained
* hat a sack of potatoes had been stolen
his garden. Hawker preached on
the Eighth Commandment, usmg these
words:
And now I have a sad tale to tell. One
of our neighbors has missed a sack of
potatoes from his garden, and the thief is
even now sitting amongst you. He has a
feather on his head.
One member of the congregation hastily
swept a hand over his head, revealing his
guilt. Confession and restitution followed
and the young curate’s reputation was
made.
THE RAIL-WAY
The Sydney fares despoil the purse
But, schedules, trains and signals
failing,
Although we wait around and curse
We travel, in effect, by railing.
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


The pick
cfihe hunch
since
L 1847 4
GKlcuub
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
R. C. Teece: In his obituary of the late
Dr. Scot Skirving (B. 25 /7 / ’56), Sir Earle
Page made one mistake. The Conway,
on which Scot Skirving trained, was not
a training-ship for the Navy, but for the
mercantile marine. There is a popular
impression that Dr. Scot Skirving got his
master’s certificate; but, as he himself
told me, he didn’t, but got what he
described as a yacht-master’s certificate.
• •
Jan Mendrik, of North Perth, first
Dutch-born holder of executive office in
the R.S.L., has been elected for a third
term on the Westralian State executive.
Served in the Royal Netherlands Navy in
Australian waters during War 11, married
a Perth girl, took out his naturalisation
papers seven years ago, and has been
working as a diesel fitter. In leisure hours
he’s an ardent Soccer-player.
ALEXANDER ROLAND COLVIN,
the Sydney accountant who succeeded the
late Bryan Fuller as president of the
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association —with
the Davis Cup, and one thing and another,
he’ll find plenty to occupy him in that
position this year. Has been an L.T.A.
councillor for 20 years, and, at 51, still
plays a fair racquet, regularly; less
frequently, plays around at golf.
In Melbourne again on a working
holiday is William Herbert,
“undoubtedly,” said Eugene Goossens in
1947 ( before Herbert went to success in
Britain and Europe), “one of the finest
tenor voices of our day.” Goossens
recommended him to Covent Garden as
a young singer with the looks, voice, build
and manner of the ideal Mozart tenor ;
he soon had more engagements than he
could accept. Like so many singers, he
began under Dr. Floyd at St. Paul’s, and
became his star pupil in his early
twenties, and, like so many others, his
ancestry is Welsh. Since his first visit
home in 1950, he married Jeanne Harries,
the British model, and he will meet her
in Sydney on August 22 to show her
Australasia.
He is back primarily to see his family.
Much of Herbert’s current concert tour
will be round the country towns. A man
who can fill Albert Hall in his thirties
should have some success in Nhill,
Geelong, Horsham, Castlemaine and
Swan Hill.
• •
“M.F.D.”: It was no surprise to friends
of Robert McCall, former, A.B.C. execu-
tive, to read that he had taken another
step up in the 8.8. C., this time to the post
of controller of its Northern Ireland TV-
service. For the last four years he’s been
assistant-director of the 8.8. C. television-
service. He came to Australia at the age
of five, and quite early in his working-
life dabbled in journalism in Sydney.
Then he became sales-manager of a
gramophone company, and about 1937
was appointed programme-editor of the
A.B.C. In turn he was concert-manager,
manager for Victoria, Federal superin-
tendent, and assistant general-manager.
Early in the war McCall was seconded
to the 8.8. C. in London as director of
its short-wave Pacific service. His
courtesy, ability and happy knack of
being able to get on with people so
impressed the higher-ups in the 8.8. C.
that he had been back in Australia' only a
few years when an invitation came to
go to London again, this time for “keeps.”
Since then Bob has gone from success to
success. My tip is that if any TV-con-
cern in Australia (and this includes the
A.8.C.) has the courage and cash to bid
high enough, he will eventually be the
big man of television here. I couldn’t
think of a happier choice.
• •
Perth accountant 58-year-old H. B.
Halvorsen, appointed to the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, brings business
and musical experience to the job. He
has been conductor of the Perth City
Band for many years, and was on full-
time duty as an Army bandmaster during
the early years of World War II; as a
baritone-player he was once awarded
the possible 100 points by the famous
English bandmaster and com-
poser Orde Hume, Besides
having been president of the
Australian branch of the
Chartered Institute of Sec-
retaries, and Federal presi-
dent of an Australian accoun-
tancy body, he is lecturer in
accountancy in the Westralian
University, and hon. sec. of
the W.A. branch of the Australian-
American Association.
• •
“Tas.”: Murray Kemp, B.Ec. (Melb.),
who was awarded a scholarship to Johns
Hopkins University (U.S.A.) some years
ago, and who is now a Professor of
Economics at McGill University, Mon-
treal, Canada, has been awarded a
Nuffield Fellowship for a year’s research
at Cambridge ; his status will be that of
visiting professor. Prof. Kemp’s father
is manager of the State Savings Bank at
Ringwood (Vied, and a younger brother
is in his fourth year of Medicine at Mel-
bourne. Uni.
• •
W. L. Hindmarsh, former chief of
N. S. Wales Department of Animal
Industry, former director of Glenfield
Veterinary Research Station, and Old
Digger (he joined in 1914, just after
graduation and after appointment as the
first Walter and Eliza Hall Veterinary
Research Fellow), looked in at 252
George-street on his return from
Uraguay, where he’s been advising the
Government (under the United Nations
F.A.O. scheme) on veterinary matters.
He’s written something on his observa-
tions of beef-cattle in Uruguay for this
week’s “Man on the Land.”
• •
Another visitor, Ross Sayers, assistant-
editor of the “Auckland Star,” is off to
Geneva to attend a conference of 20 news-
papermen from various parts of the
world (one from New Zealand; none
from Australia) held in conjunction with
the U.N. Economic and Social Council’s
27th session. He’s fair, 38, flew Welling-
tons in War 11, and was Nieman Fellow
at Harvard in 1952-53, studying govern-
ment and economics. Started newspaper
work in 1936, on the “Waikato Times.”
• •
“Uramao”: Sir Willoughby Norrie,
Governor-General of New Zealand,
travelled 40 miles to invest Dr. W- P.
Evans with the C.B.E. The doctor is
92, is senior Professor Emeritus of Canter-
bury College, and was Professor of
Chemistry there from 1903 to 1923.
Foundation-president of the New Zealand
Institute of Chemistry and first honorary
Fellow, he has been president of the
Royal Society of New Zealand.
• •
Touched - down at Perth airport, 77-
year-old Sir Charles Ponsonby, soldier,
administrator, traveller, diplomat and
chairman of the Royal Empire Society.
During the Kaiser’s war he served with
the 10th Battalion of The Buffs on
Gallipoli and in Egypt, Palestine and
France. In Hitler’s war he was Parlia-
mentary private-secretary to Sir Anthony
Eden and post-war was with delegations
to Russia, Austria and Burma. His flying
visit to Australia follows similar excur-
sions to Africa and the West Indies.
While here he will visit Australian
branches of the British Empire Society
and attend the society’s convention in
Melbourne.
• •
Frederick Sidney Hibble, who has
passed on at 55 in Rabaul, was a short-
story writer and novelist whose main
productive period was from 1920 to
1937. He was crippled at the time of the
1919 influenza epidemic, and he turned
to writing, probably, to supplement the
family income the best way he could.
Over the years he turned out a tremendous
number of short stories, which were
published in The Bulletin, in other Aus-
tralasian publications buying short stories
at the time (rather more then than in
these days of syndication), in England and
in the United States, where he sold some
to the “Saturday Evening Post.” The
drawing of him reproduced here appeared
in The Bulletin of December 5, 1934:
he had shared the Victorian centenary
novel prize with Vance Palmer, and Frith
had driven out to Horsley (30 miles from
the centre of Sydney) to sketch him. The
novel Karangi, later published by the
Endeavour Press, was set in the N. S.
Wales North Coast, where F. S. Flibble
had spent his early years; it was distin-
guished by what D. H. Lawrence called
“quickness”—an impression of coming
,to grips with the soil, and with life. The
author did most of his writing at
Horsley, where he helped his wife run the
post-office. His North Coast years had
mainly been in the Dorrigo district. Four
F. S. HIBBLE
sows were scattered in the Forces during
War 11, and at the end of the war he and
his wife moved to the Picton district.
Twelve months ago they joined one of the
boys who had established himself on a
plantation in Rabaul, and there the world
of unfamiliar color stimulated him to
write again. He was working on a novel
at the finish.
The Archers went into Queensland
from New South Wales in the 1850’s, and
it has been suggested that the family has
since multiplied faster than the cattle and
sheep they took over the border with
them. Possibly an exaggeration—but if
you wanted to fence them in you’d have
to put a fence right around Queensland.
David M. Archer, the eldest son
of the eldest son of the original
David M. Archer who came from
DAVID M. ARCHER
England to N. S. Wales, is president of
the Queensland Stud Merino Sheep-
breeders’ Association, manager of the
Strathdarr Pastoral Company, and has
his own property, Honan Downs, on the
Barcoo, 70 miles south-east of Longreach.
William Archer, the dramatic critic, was a
second-cousin ; great-uncle Colin Archer
built the Polar-exploration ship Fram.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 74, Major-General John Leslie
Hardie, D. 5.0., 0.8. E. Bom at Ballarat (Vic.),
he studied medicine for three years at Melbourne
Uni., during which time he served as a militia
officer. Joined the Permanent Military Forces in
1908, missed the first two years of War I over-
seas, but made up for it in France and
Belgium; D. 5.0., one of the earliest 0.8.E.s
and two “mentions.” Came back to his old
job as D.A.A.G. South Australia, was Base
Commandant, W.A., 1925-27, commanded First
Div. and 2nd Base District, N.S.W., until out-
break of War 11, when he became Inspector-
General, Department of Defence Co-ordination,
and later Inspector of Administration, A.H.Q.
Past-president of the United Service Institution
of N.S.W.
At Carisbrook (Vic.), at 85, Creighton Wilson
Rankine, teacher in the Victorian Education
Department for many years, and prominent
Mason. His family discovered The White
Valley, the name given to Strathalbyn, in the
Adelaide hills district. Creighton Rankine
compiled a History of Carisbrook, one of the
Victorian towns in which he lived and worked,
and left a fine memorial avenue of trees, which
he planted and tended.
In Brisbane, at 64, Harry Boland, Queens-
land secretary of the A.W.U. and president of
the central executive of the State A.L.P. He
had the longest record as an A.W.U. official in
Australia.
In Sydney, at 68, Charles McLachlan, known
far and wide as chief-engineer of the
Manunda on the Australian coast, and later
in charge of Adelaide Steam’s engineering-works
at Balmain (Sydney), from which he retired last
year. A Scot from Glasgow, “Mac” had more
Australian friends than the average Australian
has, but he never forgot his kin “at Home.”
His kindnesses were many, but, like his
hospitality, unobtrusive.
In Hobart, at 93, K. E. Burn, who went to
England with the 1890 cricketers and played
against W. G. Grace’s side in the two Tests of
that tour. He went as a wicketkeeper, but was
essentially a batsman; in his last first-class
innings (1907-08) he made 112 against the
visiting M.C.C. team. Australian Rules foot-
baller, too —played in the first Tasmania-Victoria
game, in 1887.
In Sydney, Lady Reading, widow of Sir
Claude, Commonwealth Bank chairman.
Norman Reading, whose property between
Gundagai and Cootamundra (N.S.W.) is a
feature of the district, is the only son.
In Sydney, at 84, Frank Henry Manchee,
member of a pioneer pastoralist family of
Moree (N.S.W.). Educated at The King’s
School, he was well known as a cricketer.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 74, Bernard Martin,
who arrived in the Dominion from England
56 years ago, became a member of the
Legislative Council, and was for a term its
Speaker.


BOOKSHOP.
BOOKSHOP.
BOOKSHOP.
BOOKSHOP
BOOKSHOP
*= A- A,


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'HE Australian visitor to England or
America need never feel he is alone
and friendless in a strange land —if he’s a
birdlover. His feathered compatriots
abound in the aviaries of both countries.
He’ll find diamond-sparrow, redhead,
double-bar, zebra, star, cutthroat, pintail
and Gouldian finches (both the redheaded
and the black-headed varieties of the
Gouldian). The budgerigar will, of
course, welcome him everywhere birds
are kept; and the pigeon family will be
represented by the crested-bronzewing,
the plumed-ground-dove and maybe an
isolated diamond-dove.
Many of the birds, he will learn, could
claim full citizenship by right of birth
in their adopted country. If he tries
to buy some of his avian frjends while in
America, however, he might strike
language difficulties.
There, a Gouldian is a “Lady Gould
finch,” a redhead is “Sydney waxbill,”
pintail is “shaft-tail,” and double-bar is
“Bicheno’s finch” or “owl-finch.”
The budgerigar is known by his Aussie
bush-name, “shell parakeet.” The
diamond keeps his name in all three
countries. In England and America he is,
surprisingly, worth much more than the
exquisite Gouldian. The reason is purely
economical: diamonds breed less freely
when expatriated. An Aussie who recalls
the melodious little
blokes flying in flocks,
and in his youth
trapped ’em for sale
at sixpence a knob,
goggles a bit when the
price of ten-quid is
asked and eagerly paid.
B. A. K.
• ik
“A.W.”: Abos. had
already presented
nearly everything they
had by way of enter-
tainment during our
dreary journey across
the Nullarbor, but this
unrehearsed titbit re-
mained. As our train
pulled up to take in
water and we pre-
pared for a short
walkabout a troop of
abos. showed - up;
trailing them at a
short distance was a
young gin, carrying a
piccaninny on her back.
As she passed, one of
our party sneaked up
from behind to catch
a glimpse of the picca.
But Juno sensed his
move, turned on him,
and, with hand out-
stretched, demanded
payment in advance
“from you, mate.”
“Russ” : Y a n n a
Yanna is the correct aboriginal
name for Melbourne’s noble stream.
The blacks never called it Yarra
Yarra (to signify “ever-flowing”). The
Yarra was so named in 1835 by a sur-
veyor friend of Batman’s named Wedge,
who, at the time, thought Yarra Yarra
was the native name. Later he admitted
that the words uttered by his aboriginal
guide were “Yanna Yanna” (“it runs” or
“it flows”) in pointing out the falls that
used to be at the foot of Queen-street.
The abos. apply “Yanna Yanna” to any
waterfall.
* * * *
“Jasby”: “Herd” (B. 18/7/’56) wonders
how close Banjo Paterson got to Tallan-
gatta. He obviously didn’t get close
enough to ask the locals the name of their
town or he wouldn’t have made it rhyme
with Parramatta and Coolangatta. South
of the Murray they call it Tlang-atta.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: They walked into the
small-town bar, a queerly-assorted couple,
and the taller one ordered two beers
while the barman eyed them suspiciously.
The small bloke downed his potion in
one swig, and after a second round slid
slowly to the floor and stretched out.
Not his first that day, apparently. “Stupid
ape. He’s all right. Just bunging it on,”
said his mate. He bought another round
and the fallen drinker rose quickly and
drank his in ungrateful haste. He didn’t
shout. Arm-in-arm they left the bar.
Why don't you get it done in port ?”
It was a pretty good advert, for the
visiting circus showing that night. The
silent one of the pair was a monkey!
* * * *
“Perseverando”: A few miles south of
Training (W.A.) is a farm named Soli-
tude. For 20 years the owner remained
a bachelor. Then he married, and during
eight years his wife presented him with
seven children, including two sets of
twins. More apt now would be Multi-
tude.
“I want a square cage!"
“Myall”: A small wooden steamer of
400 tons plies up and down from Mel-
bourne to Townsville, occasionally going
as far as Daru, in Papua. Now named
Wongala, she was formerly Wyatt Earp,
whose movements, 20 years ago, were
watched with great interest by many
nations. Built in Norway in 1919 as a
herring-boat, she was bought in 1933 by
American explorer Lincoln Ellsworth for
exploration in the Antarctic. She made
three trips under his command, between
1933 and 1939. She was then bought by
Australia for £4400, and when war came
to the Pacific she was used as a cable-
layer at Darwin, as a Navy examination-
ship in South Australian waters, and later,
fitted with guns, as a guard-ship for
Whyalla. She took the Australian
Antarctic Expedition down south in 1947,
returning the following year. Five years
ago she was bought by her present
owners.
* * * *
“K.R.”: Reading Laseron’s Ancient
Australia, I was amazed to learn that
rocks in Tasmania of the Silurian age
(some few million years back) are com-
posed largely of fossil remains of corals.
Corals, of course, live only in the sea,
therefore the sea in that age covered the
Speck, as it did parts of mainland Aus-
tralia ; more remarkably, though, it may
also mean Tassie was then a tropical
or sub-tropical region! Reef-building
corals now are confined to the warmer
climes ; but were these ancient fellows?
It may be that modem corals are soft
and pampered, like other forms of life
(including some human); once, perhaps,
they could live in the cold. The answer
to how the corals were able to live
around Tasmania, Laseron says, is not
known.
* * # *
“Sebak”: Canadian scientists are
reported to be developing processes which
will extract nutritious and appetising
food for humans from timber. It has
long been known that carbohydrates
constitute 66 per cent, of the bulk of
most timbers ; and from carbohydrates
can be extracted sugar and starch. Lignin
is also present in wood, and from lignin
comes vanillin, which in turn is a source
of essence-of-vanilla. If the backroom-
boys are wholly successful before the
next depression comes along, an old joke
of the tough ’thirties will be too obsolete
for even radio-comedians to resurrect —
the dole-inspector snapping at the appli-
cant, “You can’t get food-relief —don’t
you own a weatherboard house?” And
the answer: “Yair ; but what d’you think
a man is—a white-ant?”
“Eliza”: Despite the noise, bustle, cars
and trams on a busy Friday-afternoon in
Chapel-street, in Melbourne’s Prahran,
there he was—a hawk flying leisurely up
the street at parapet level, obviously in
search of a pigeon-dinner.
* * * *
“Noah”: Circular shafts of the China-
men and the rectangular ones dug by
white men are mute evidence of racial
diversity on the old nor’-west Victorian
goldfields; and, despite the fact that
Chinamen’s shafts never caved in, the
white man stuck to square corners and
the additional work of timbering the
sides. Only once did East meet West, and
the circumstances were violent; due to
the Chinamen withholding the site of a
new lead —the Orientals were driven
forcibly from, the goldfield. They never-
theless left their historical impression in
many locations still bearing Chinese
names, and also in the legend that fossick-
ing around the old Chinese shafts is a
useless proposition.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Soon after we had captured
Peronne in September, 1918, a Digger put
up a signboard on a damaged corner-
building, renaming the street Rue de
Kanga. I’ve often wondered if the name
stuck.
* * * *
IN Borneo, estimating the length of
saurians is simple: Ift. of crocodile
to lin. of head.
They were so bad in the Kretam River
that night-tide log-rafting was at a
standstill. Even the strict precaution of
not saying their name, but referring to
them as “They,” did not prevent a fatality.
So from Jessleton we had to import
a Suluk reputed to have “a way with
them,” and whose title was “The Croco-
diles’ Papa.”
He appeared in my office, a cheerful
grey-haired Moslem, flanked by two
handsome scoundrels with tight trousers
and obviously well-sharpened parrangs at
hip. Losing no time, he offered to “do”
the river for 50 cents per foot of croc.,
nothing under 6ft. to be counted.
He spent three weeks up the river, and,
via the local grapevine, we heard impres-
sive reports of the efficacy of his “strong
medicine.” Three canoe-loads of skulls
came out and were calculated for pay-
ment, and “Bapa Boya” came to bid me
farewell. Emboldened by his cordial
courtesy, I asked: “Would I be lacking
in manners to inquire of your actual
method?”
With a huge grin of his betel-filled
mouth, he said, “Not at all,” and ex-
plained. He had a kerosene open-wick
lamp, homemade from a cigarette-tin,
with the lid soldered upright for a
reflector. His crew paddled their canoe
about at night until they got a crocodile-
eye reflection, made straight for the vic-
tim, and the bow-man planted his trident
at the skull-junction. The head was then
cut off, and that was that.
SEVENELMS.
THE LOST FARM
.pie plains were all by the squatters held
And it seemed there would be no change
When Dan Riley took his selected farm
On the slopes of the Wild Dog Range.
And to it he brought his new-made wife
From her kinsfolk far away,
His household goods and clearing-tools
Two horses, a plough and a drag.
He cleared a patch in the trees and scrub
Where the Wild Dog Range hung dark
And built there a home of slabs and spars
And roofed it with sheets of bark.
With fire and axe Dan cleared the slopes
But poor were the crops that grew—
Still with shearing here and fencing ther<?
He managed to battle through.
Two sons were reared on that poor brush-farm,
Young men with their fives to five
And nothing to stay with the old folk for
That the Wild Dog Range could give.
There came a day when their swags they rolled
And rode from the range’s side
Away where the squatters’ day was done
And the plains were clear and wide.
Dan and his wife stayed on alone,
But Time in the end would win—
The scrub came back from the boundary-fence
And farther and farther reached in.
Weary and worn with the losing fight
As age with its ills crept on,
They gave the farm to the range again
And went where their sons had gone.
There are youngsters now on the northern
plains,
Grandsons of the sons of Dan,
Who never will know the poor bush-farm
That the forest overran.
It’s just a part of the ranges wild
Where the scrub grows dense and green
With never a post of a fence to show
That ever a farm had been.
There’s nothing at all of Dan’s old home
And in all that forest land
They might search for years and never find
The place where it used to stand.
Gone is the yard where the cows were milked,
No sign of the bush-built shed
With the sapling stalls and mangers where
The plough-team came to be fed.
On an open patch where the scrub is thin
At the foot of a timbered hill,
Wandering lone one day I found
The trace of a furrow still;
And musing there as a wintry sun
Went down past the ridges high
In fancy I saw a shadowy team
And Dan with his plough go by.
VICTORIA.
JOHN G. GILBY.


NO water-baby himself, the grubby,
sawn-off “expert” caused quite a stir
on the board when he hung his notice
up: “Please clean your combs and
cutters, as they are greasy.” There was a
bigger stir next morning when the adden-
dum was read: “And so is the bloke who
grinds them.” The heated challenge to
the anonymous writer to present himself
out “where the bull feeds” was abortive.
Greasy seldom used soap and water ; still,
he could fight! —“Quo Yadis.”
* * * *
“Old Crab”: A lady resident of our
townlet went for her driver’s-licence.
When the constable hopped in the car
she kicked her shoes off. “Can’t handle
the accelerator without a good toe-hold,”
she remarked. She got her licence. She
and the cop rfteeting a few nights later
during a progressive barn-dance at the
local hop, the beetle-crusher greeted her
with a gusty, “Well, it’s all right with me
if you want to kick your trilbies off in
this one, too.”
* * * •
“Mullum”: I can understand a high-
pitched sound upsetting “J.H.’s” dog
(B. 11/7/’56) violin-playing usually
upsets ’em—but my pup is different. We
live a few doors from a church, and three
times every Sunday when the low-pitched,
bell tolls the faithful, he bolts frantically
outside and howls. It could be that he
has a different ear from the rest of dog-
dom. My own opinion it that the
“They reckon cold air from the South Pole met cold air from the
North Pole —right here at Cooktown!”
unchristian pooch is expressing strong
anti-religious sentiments.
* * * *
“Villefair”: September will bring up
the century for Australia’s first branch
railway-line—from Granville (Sydney) to
Liverpool. Despite the fact that only a
single track was to be laid, all culverts,
bridges, cuttings and embankments were
made wide enough to take two sets of
rails —an example of foresight which
seems to have gone out of fashion with
the years. The line stretched over a
distance of 84 miles, bridged three sizeable
creeks, several minor ones and an exten-
sive swamp, and was completed in nine
months. Near enough to a mile a month,
which wasn’t bad going, for the times.
Today, of course, with modern earth-
moving equipment available, a tenfold
greater population from which to draw
manpower, and experts trained to combat
any engineering problems likely to crop-
up in such a project, the job could prob-
ably be done in—well, I’d say, about
seven years.
* * * *
“Wattlebird”: Jacky came in a long
time after the riderless horse, and when
someone asked him what had happened
the abo. blew his top.
“Blasted thing that horse,
all the same one b ,
that’s what. Why you tell
me to crack him over the
rump if he won’t go? I
git off, whack him good-
oh, he bin go plurry fast,
like you say, leavin’ Jacky
behind.” He’d had a 10-
mile jaunt.
* *
“Jemu”: The suggestion
that a fox may have
walked along a log to
break his trail of scent (B.
11 /7 / ’56) recalls Camp-
bell, a South Burnett (Q.)
abo. who had a gin-murder
and several attacks on
white women to his dis-
credit, but who managed
to elude the hunt for quite
a while because the police-
trackers kept losing his
tracks, which seemed to
vanish into thin air,
though those of his camp-
followers, without whom
he never travelled, were
clearly defined. Only
after Campbell was cap-
tured —by sheer accident, as it happened
—was the mystery explained. When the
pursuers were hot on his trail Campbell
would jump on to the shoulders of one of
his followers and be carried to the nearest
two-rail fence. The mob would cross
the fence and pass on, but Campbell
would remain on the top rail and do a
Blondin-act along it for several miles
before contacting terra firma again and
joining his retinue at a prearranged
point.
* * * *
“Jarrah Jack”: Whoever dubbed the
cow the “foster-mother of the universe”
certainly named it aptly. As I finished
milking Daisy the two cats, which had
been taking turns scratching their backs
against the stool, high-tailed it over to
the yard-comer, where a tin stood to hold
their share; further back, with tails wag-
ging furiously beside an upturned cream-
can lid, were Jean and her four pups.
Next came Daisy’s calf —again another
satisfied customer ; and still plenty left
in the bucket for the kids and the day’s
cuppas. But Dais had more to offer.
As she mooched down the paddock she
was followed purposefully by the rooster
and four hens, who had found that there
were always a few oats left in them thar
hills.
* * * *
“Bass”: The pallid-cuckoo turned-up
as usual at the end of May and staked
his claim by singing from the tops of tall
trees around its perimeter. This went on
for weeks, and, apart from warning-off
intruders, the performance must have
attracted a mate, because one day as he
left a tree he was followed by another
bird slightly smaller, brownish-grey but
more spotted than he, and with a pro-
nounced chestnut head. For a final
identification she uttered a hoarse, single-
noted “kaare” as she left the bough.
After that I seldom heard the male, and
his infrequent notes sounded subdued, as
though he was sure of his territory now
and merely broadcast an occasional warn-
ing to possible interlopers. But last week
he sounded-off again, full-throated and
challenging ; and all the small birds in the
locality the red wattle-birds, the yellow-
throated miners, the willy-wagtails, even
“Jusf a minute , my friend —you haven t paid me.”
the mudlarks, sprang to attention.
Wherever the cuckoo went he was
followed and watched, and occasionally
attacked ; but for days he persisted ; then
his mate flew away from a nest whose
occupants were watching the singer. She
carried an egg in her beak, and at a safe
distance she broke and ate it; and the
cuckoo, seeing her, knew that his ruse
had succeeded once again.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: In our neck of the sou’-
Westralian woods we had the rarest of
visitations: the finest of snowflakes fall-
ing. Just after it began a commercial-
traveller rushed into his pub, simulating
panic very convincingly, and said that
“radioactive dust was falling every-
where.” The locals lent a willing ear, too,
and it took a geiger-counter to scotch
the leg-pull.
* * * *
“Leirum”: During a six-weeks holi-
day I entrusted my pup to the care of
friends about two miles away. She had
been kept kennelled and tied-up nightly,
and quickly settled-down with her
guardians, who were well known to her.
I arrived home a day ahead of schedule
and late at night, and I didn’t pass within
two miles of my friends’ place. Next
morning the pup was in her own kennel.,
Shortly afterwards my agitated friends,
with no idea that I had arrived back
already, were around seeing if the dog,
which had slipped its collar, had made for
home. Coincidence, perhaps ; knowing
dogs, though, I plump for telepathy.
* * * *
“Wakiti”: Our city cousin gazed in
rapt fascination at our windmill whirling
merrily in the breeze. “Just fancy,” she
said, “having a machine that extracts the
from the air!”
* * * *
“Narra”: Two New Australians were
fined in our N.S.W. district for killing the
ingredients of their butcher-bird soup.
After hearing also of kookaburra-goulash,
1 wish someone would introduce these
people of strange tastes to the flying-fox,
which is in millions, and may be roasted
or fried. Fruit-fed pork, as it were.
Every orchardist would bless them.
REEF GARDEN
N.S-W,
Here, in
A fin
Of rock —ink-
Blue and coral pink,
Frail weed
And oyster grows,
And seed
Of rose-
Like, thin
Anemone,
And pin-
Head shells, sea-
Green, slit
With lit
Bits of gold.
And cold
Star-flowers.
Red
Filaments
Of vine, spread
Net-wise,
To catch bright
Fish that rise
Into the light—
Then go . . .
Swiftly to a dim
Underworld
Below.
JOAN MAS.
THE RIVERS RISE
SAID Bill, “The levees are only just
holding, and with two more rises
to come, she’ll break for sure.”
John looked at the crop behind the
sandbagged levees. It was already yellow
with water-rot, the irrigation plots a
liquid chequerboard holding fragments
of sky and ragged cloud reflected. “Let
her in now,” he said. “Let her in now
while she’s running quiet. Then, when
the rises get down here she’ll only creep.
You hold her back and she’ll tear
thousands of quid off the country in
minutes.”
Men talking; and the ’Bidgee listening
as she sprawled over the back country of
New South Wales. The Darling flattening
out through creeks and arid hollows to
the west; and south the Little Murray
and the Murray spreading in the incon-
tinence of flood.
For a flooded river receiving tribute
from flooded rivers is a frightful incon-
tinence. The flood is out over the western
plains and with each new “rise” from the
east the water comes, pushing through
the current, ploughing a new valley with
tools of tons of silt, of trees and sheds.
That drowned bullock will tear its
weight of clay away as it knocks against
the scoured bank; uprooted trees are
feudal battering-rams under the thrust of
the rise.
But on the western plains the last rises
of the flood have no direction; there is
too much water for the contour of the
land, too much pressure of water for the
levees. And Johns and Bills all over the
country have to decide whether to fight
the flood by levees or “let her in.”
In a laboratory a rat, an octopus or a
bird/will demonstrate that it can learn
in time, or even quickly, how best to get
food and avoid danger, in unusual cir-
cumstances or unnatural surroundings.
Indeed, their species would not have sur-
vived otherwise. But it seems that Homo,
being sapiens, can never learn in time.
'With a hundred years of records behind
us we can say with the pride of disaster
that the present floods are just about the
worst ever. But, unlike the eastern-
flowing rivers of N.S.W., the Murray-
Darling river-system gives ample warning
of likely floods in the lower reaches.
This year the grazing country in the
south-west has had six to eight weeks
warning for stock to be removed. Cer-
tainly no one expected the abnormal rain
spread over such a wide area, with an all-
time volume of floodwater to be accom-
modated somewhere. But the signs were
ominous at least five weeks ago.
And surely then was the time to get
a scheme working to distribute the flood-
water through run-offs, to decide —after
taking into consideration the whole
Murray-Darling catchment-area—-where
the water was to be let in, where held
back. Not this crazy system of panic
levee-building on both sides of a river
already so swollen that the original
river-bed is gouged away. Levees then
only increase the pressure when each new
rise comes down, forcing the additional
volume of water up and out over the
country. *
But such planning is only possible when
rivers are regarded as a communal asset,
only possible when rivers are regarded as
indivisible, bank to bank and source to
mouth administered by a disinterested,
non-political authority. We might then
have emergency reservoirs which could
cope with floodwaters, as distinct from
the present storages which fill before the
flood reaches its peak. This would mean,
of course, that more land in catchment-
areas would have to be controlled, if not
actually held by the river-authority.
Meanwhile, the tragedies, the damage
and the waste continue; and yearly a
sizeable portion of three States is silted
by the Murray into the Bight. With
every year the curves of the Darling and
the ’Bidgee become more emaciated, and
the flood-bird’s warnings are unheeded
as he flies singing down the eroded
river-beds.
JOHN HOGARTH.


AMPOL
£1,500,000
NOTE ISSUE
OVERSUBSCRIBED
Opened at 10 a.m., July 26, Ampol's
£1,500,000 Note Issue has already been
oversubscribed and the lists are now
closed.
The Issue was underwritten by J. B. Were & Son
KEEP mom SAFE!
SANDERS
d
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
■“Sanders** can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —Of
any other period.
m
-
Price* and taf
iber information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOUBNS „ , . Piorman Bro». PIT U*
ADELAIDE . Vordoo Price Ll 4.
PERTH . . , Dockol Book Co. (Auk)
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Submerged Landscape
entire Australian eco-
nomic landscape at present is
submerged in politics, rather like
the flooded plains of New South
Wales. And the fact has to be
faced by all who want a guide
as to what is likely to be the
course of events during the 1956-
57 financial year. That is what
makes the job of coping with
normal economic problems so
much more difficult. Logical,
practical effort is prone to get
bogged down in a quagmire of
Federal-State politics, or, more
particularly, in “Labor” politics.
And fertility and productivity
are soured.
Anyone who ignores the
political side of economics at
present ignores the most signi-
ficant factor. The wave of
organised, militant and unreason-
able trade-unionism has water-
logged the whole national out-
look. -To meet the increasing
difficulties of overseas trading is
extremely difficult when unity of
purpose cannot be achieved be-
cause of pressure-group tensions.
The meeting of the Federal
Treasurer and the Premiers in
Canberra this month is a vital
one, but its objective of stabilis-
ing costs and stimulating our
export-drive will fail if Premiers
representing the trade-union
movement are not prepared to
hold down wages-inflation and
at the same time allow industry
to create new capital through
reasonable profit-margins. It
should be quite evident to trade-
unionists who have seen a three-
fold increase in the basic wage
that profits of industry need
close study indeed before they
can be judged to be excessive.
Perhaps the most vocal man on
the “Labor” side in respect of
“excessive profits” is Dr. Evatt.
Yet he has never produced any-
thing like an orderly survey of
the earnings of industry in order
to support his case.
The truth is that savings of all
kinds, whether in the form of
reserved profits of companies
or in the savings-accounts of
wage-earners, have been inade-
quate, and that our economy
has suffered sorely as a result.
The cure is to be found in
increased productivity, and one
essential in the plan for increased
productivity is stability in costs.
With stable costs there would be
more incentive to produce, to
save, to invest and to increase
working-assets. Taxation could
be lowered.
The initiative really rests with
the wage-earner, through his
unions. His basic wage today
buys 20 p.c. more than it did
in 1939. And he has margins,
as a rule, in addition, as well as
full employment. He has been
given everything he asked for
during the depression and post-
depression days, including a
financial technique that assures
full employment so long as he
himself plays the game. But so
far he has remained the tool
of the political standover-men
and “militant” trade - union
bosses.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
TPHE facetious old injunction,
1 “Don’t go down the mine,
Daddy!”, has been heard by
most people more than once in
their lives. But to shareholders
in Northern Hercules, N.L., the
matter is far from humorous,
though it isn’t quite so much
a matter of their going down
the Northern Territory mine,
either; it is a question of
whether they are prepared to
pour more money down the
mine in order to help salvage
the million pounds that has been
sunk there already.
If, on August 8, shareholders
at the extraordinary general
meeting of Northern Hercules in
Melbourne get a little vocal
about the co.’s affairs, two
members of the board should by
now be getting used to that sort
of thing. Felix Gregory Burns,
retired mining engineer, and Dr.
Michael Duhan Garretty, mining
geologist, were directors also of
Shaw River Alluvials when it
was floated a month or two after
Northern Hercules was put on
the market in May, 1954. Shaw
River Alluvials broke its bad
news to shareholders last
December in Sydney; Northern
Hercules told shareholders its
sad story (or maybe a precis of
it only) last month in Melbourne.
The other directors of
Northern Hercules at flotation
were Charles Edward Blackett,
mining engineer, and Kenneth
William Craig, accountant.
General manager was John
Ernest Klug, mining engineer,
with experience at Broken Hill
and Radium Hill; consulting
engineer was W. J. Cadwallader ;
C. H. Warman was consulting
metallurgist; the services of
C. W. Morris, of Australasian
Civil Engineering Pty., were
secured for general engineering
planning.
Northern Hercules thus started
off with no lack of geological,
metallurgical and engineering
talent surrounding it.
Northern Mines Development,
N.L., got 300,000 10s. shares for
the Hercules mine, 34 miles n.-e.
from Pine Creek (N.T.). Share-
holders in Northern Mines were
offered a million shares at par,
and 200,000 shares were offered
to Mines Investment Syndicate.
All the shares were taken up.
Probably what attracted share-
holders’ interest as much as any-
thing was this paragraph in the
prospectus:
As will be seen from the summary
report by Mr. W. J. Cadwallader, in
this prospectus, operation of the
mine is expected to show a substan-
tial return ori capital. Working costs
have been generously estimated, but
nevertheless the annual profit is esti-
mated at £462,600. The profit on ore
already amply indicated by develop-
ment and diamond-driUing, to a
maximum depth of only 350 ft., is
estimated at over £1,000,000, or well
in excess of subscribed capital.
The reports of Dr. Garretty and Mr.
Cadwallader show that considerable
extensions of this ore are assured
both laterally along the lodes, and
in depth.
“Probable ore” was set at
62,300 tons in the prospectus.
Average grade was put at
37.2dwt. No treatment difficulties
were expected, and in reckoning
£1,000,000 of profit from this
“probable ore” costs were
estimated at £8 a ton. Profitable
production was expected within
a year.
Capital-outlay (apart from
vendor’s consideration) was put
at £537,400, leaving £52,600 for
working capital and contin-
gencies. Mine-preparation and
-development was included at
£77,700 in this figure. And here
appears to have occurred one
of the co.’s first big miscalcula-
tions. During the 16 months to
Sept. 30, 1955, development ran
off with £169,705, including
£17,000 for depreciation. But
though sampling revealed that
values were extremely erratic,
“the results obtained were in
keeping with those published in
the prospectus.”
The mill began a trial run just
before last Christmas. But for
some reason, apparently because
of low mine-output, throughput
was below the original estimated
capacity of 100 tons a day. It
seems that the plant this year
was capable of handling 120 tons
a day. Since milling commenced
tonnages have been small and
low-grade, diluted, apparently,
with some developmental ore.
When the co. asked share-
fa old e r s for £150,000 of
additional capital in August last
year it became clear that calcula-
tions of original capital-outlay
were below estimates. However,
the money was put up without
demur.
The great shock to share-
holders came on July 19 this
year, when it was announced
that unless more money was put
up the mine would have to be
closed down.
It appears that, underground,
plans have gone all astray, and
that development, in spite of
heavy expenditure, is away in
arrears.
Directors now say that a
further developmental pro-
gramme will take 52 weeks and
will cost £200,000. At the end
of the period ore blocked-out
will total 41,000 tons, and the
grade of ore mined will be
21dwt. (All-in costs are now put
at £ll ss. a ton.)
This compares with the
estimate of 62,300 tons of
“probable ore” going 37.2dwt.
mentioned in the prospectus
over two years ago!
In order to get in the money
necessary to complete develop-
ment shareholders are being
asked to agree to contribute 2s.
a share (possibly 2s, 6d.) in
excess of the 10s. they have
already contributed on their
fully-paid shares.
Northern Hercules, N.L., now
has a paid capital of £1,007,500
in 2,015,000 10s. shares, fully-
paid. These sold as high as 13s.
6d. in 1955, and last sale in June
this year was around 6s. Last
week they were down to Is. 9d.,
and those who paid that figure
must contemplate increasing
their uncalled liability by 2s. 6d.
a share on August 8.
Wapet’s Re-evaluation
[From L. Owen]
VjyAPETS monthly “News
” Digest” has been —since its
first number issued in April, 1955
—a most instructive and educa-
tive publication, which caters
especially for those who lack
technical knowledge in the
intricacies of modern oil-finding,
quite apart from forming a
compact index to explorational
and drilling activities in Western
Australia.
The latest number (July, 1956)
summarises, in a half-yearly
survey, the work accomplished
to June 30 and the projects for
the ensuing twelve months. It
deals specifically with the failure
of Rough Range No. 9 well,
“which was abandoned at a depth
of 3844 ft. after recovering only
salt-water from the Birdrong
sands,” and it points out that this
fact makes necessary “a
re-evaluation of all geological
and geophysical data regarding
Rough Range.”
That revision, as readers of
The Bulletin will recall, has
been advocated in these columns
ever since the strike of a pocket
of petroleum substance, of very
limited extent, whose chemical
and physical properties rendered
it suspect, from the very start,
as a harbinger of commercial oil.
However, no good purpose is
served by post-mortems, and the
Wapet programme for 1956-57,
through its courage and fore-
sight, brings fortlv hope for the
future. With reference to this
programme, it is hard to do
better than quote the following
from the “Wapet News
Digest”:
Continuation of field geological
surveys and gravity-meter work to
cover an eventual integrated, overall
picture of the sedimentary basin areas
embraced by Wapet permits. An
intensified programme of strati-
graphical and sub-surface studies by
trained personnel at Perth head-
quarters. The resolution of the
Rough Range-Cape Range problem,
employing the seismograph, possibly
supplemented by structure-drilling.
The emphasis on structure-
drilling, with, I assume, adequate
and oriented coring, is
particularly gratifying.


ASSISTANT SURVEYORS,
GOVERNMENT OF
BRUNEI
The Government of the State of
Brunei, Borneo, have vacancies for
two Assistant Surveyors. Applicants
should be familiar with all aspects of
survey with practical experience in
triangulation, traversing, cadastral
survey, and competent to carry out all
necessary computations.
The appointment would be on a
three year agreement. Salary range is
£AII6-£A2OI per month. A gratuity
is payable on satisfactory completion
of the agreement at the rate of
£A3I ss. for each completed period of
three months resident service or at
£A46 17s. 6d. for each similar period
on a salary of £A 1,250 per annum of
over.
Leave is granted at the rate of 4
days for each month of resident
service, plus voyage leave. Free
passages are provided.
Successful applicants should be
prepared to spend all their time in
the field under camping conditions
and single men are therefore preferred.
Officers are subject to local taxation,
but there is no personal income tax
in Brunei at present. Medical
attention is free.
Application forms and full details
of conditions of service, etc., are
obtainable on request from Professor
Z. Co wen, Commonwealth Liaison
Officer for Colonial Appointments,
University of Melbourne, Carlton,
N. 3, Victoria.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD WILLIAMS late
of Moree.—'TAKE NOTICE that JUNE
WILLIAMS has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 1431 of 1956 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse and habitual
drunkenness and cruelty during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may file an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 15th of October 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME / COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR ALDER late of No. 19
Albert Street Botany.—TAKE NOTICE
that LAURA LILLIAN ALDER has filed
a Petition for Divorce (No. 1473 of 1956)
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or exeuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney by 2nd
October 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. J.
KTELY, Solicitor, 17 Castlereagli Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
A.P.M. WORKS IN A BIG WAY {No. 3 of a Series )
■
MSS
m
m
am*
1
nn
m
Papermaking is a Giant’s task.
i ■
From a mental picture of the liner,
“Queen Mary,” visualise one-third of its
975 feet length. This is about the length
of a modern papermaking machine. The
glazing cylinder of such a machine is pic-
tured above.
A machine of this type uses enough elec-
tricity in a year to service 12,500 homes.
Four million gallons of water pass through
it a day. This one has the capacity to
make enough paperboard* in one week
to lay a 10'6" strip from Melbourne to
Sydney.
With 15 machines continuously making
paper and paperboard, A.P.M. Aust-
rattan Paper Manufacturers Ltd. te
making a substantial contribution to the
needs of Australian industry.
Besides the 230,000 tons capacity of
these machines, A.P.M. produces 84,000
tons of paper pulp each year, a project
calling for big thinking, big machines,
experience and efficiency. A.P.M. is
Australia’s largest manufacturer of paper
and paperboard*.
* The term paperboard embraces card-
board, fibreboard, and other heavyweight
papers. Basically the ’same raw materials
are used for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; and Petrie, Queensland.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
RECENT newspaper headlines
have shaken public opinion
into the discomfiting realisation
that gangs and gang-warfare are
flourishing in London, particu-
larly in the West End. Court
cases have revealed, with evi-
dences of razor-slashing and
beatings-up, that there exists a
Mafia-like ruthlessness in the
consolidation of power and in
the pursuit of heavy and particu-
larly unsavory gain. Following
these, a small-time gambler,
known to be involved in the
lower levels of gangsterdom, was
sought out and savagely
murdered.
The repeated and insistent
statements of the Chief of Police
that his force is incorruptible
have double significance: be-
sides upholding morale they
amount to a tacit admission that,
as things are at present, the
situation is beyond firm control.
The metropolitan police are
undermanned to the extent of
at least 5000.
Gangsterdom depends upon
illegality and vice. Our modern
society encourages it with anti-
quated betting-laws and a head-
in-the-sand attitude towards
prostitution. Street-betting, fur-
tive but irrepressible, has given
rise to “protection” rackets which
could be suppressed only if the
police-force was strong enough
to protect informers against the
viciousness of the “protectors.”
Timely enough, the House of
Lords has reminded the Govern-
ment of its promise to reform
the betting-laws.
Prostitution, in Mayfair and
Bayswater, is so flagrant as to
compel the residents to take
private action and to drive the
civic authorities into impotent
despair. The law is doubly inept.
Solicitation being no offence,
I street-walkers have to be arrested
on a charge of “annoyance” to
passers-by, making a fortnightly
appearance, almost by roster,
and paying a fine of £2, almost
by way of licence.
Furthermore, while the law
comes down severely upon the
procurer or brothel-keeper,
recent cases have established
that it is powerless when each
room is let as “a separate
dwelling.” Thus, “estate-agents”
specialising in this class of
business can legally grow rich
upon immoral earnings. Hence
more gangsterdom.
Parliament is expected to take
action next session, after the
report (a two-year survey) of the
Wolfenden Committee is pub-
lished. Changes in the law will
include heavy fines for soliciting
and severe terms of imprison-
ment for organisers of vice.
Sudden Braking?
The television commentator
who experienced some rough
treatment from dismissed motor-
car workers because he drove
up to them in a Volkswagen is
not likely to forget his tactless-
ness. Nevertheless, the heated
incident contains an ironic moral.
Why did he buy a German car?
And isn’t it true that Britain’s
car-manufacturers sent abroad
16 p.c. fewer cars during the first
four months of this year than
in the corresponding period of
1955—a loss in exports of some
£9 million?
The decision of the British
Motor Corporation to dismiss
6000 employees (about an
eighth of its staff) was unfortu-
nate in its abruptness, for the
management neither approached
the trade-unions nor prepared
the men for the bad news.
But there were- other contri-
butory factors besides the Aus-
tralian import-cuts. New pro-
duction-methods had increased
output per man. The Govern-
ment credit-squeeze and the hire-
purchase restrictions had
affected sales on the home-
market, which absorbed most of
last year’s expansion. And, most
important, the general rise in
wages and costs forced the
management, after a longish
period of restraint, to put its
prices up.
The object-lesson is that the
8.M.C., like its competitors, had
run into difficulties overseas (85
p.c. of the fall in its total output
is in the export market).
These dismissals and the
possibility of their extension
(the Rover and Standard com-
panies were on short-time) will
weigh heavily upon the Govern-
ment. It is certain that the
motor-car industry will plead
for special consideration, now,
especially since the strike-
weapon has been employed. This
could only be on the home
markets—a palliative fraught
with danger. And the Ministry
of Labor is faced with the
formidable task of easing
thousands of workers, accus-
tomed to good pay and all in the
same district, into other work.
They certainly won’t drift quietly
into the coal industry.
Are bad times ahead? The
car industry is optimistic over
the longer-term view, and some
companies don’t seem to be
seriously affected. But the
stock-markets, always over-
sensitive to portents, are gloomy.
The Dorman Long interim
statement has depressed prices,
with warnings of restrictive
practices and rising costs in the
steel industry.
Review of Revues
No kind of theatrical enter-
tainment is so uncertain as the
intimate revue. One may run
for two years while another,
perhaps a sequel, may be a
seven-night flop. Authors
struggle gamely in late-night
theatres remarkably little in pro-
portions and, occasionally, strike
good fortune. Then, as is so
typical of show-business, every-
body wants them —for a time.
The novelty over, they drift,
thankfully perhaps, into script-
writing or the churning-out of
three-act comedies or they
become personalities on radio
or TV.
To be a professional comedist,
wit and satirist all in one and
to be able to present these talents
in the bold shorthand of the
theatre is, no doubt, a vocation
beyond endurance. But it would
be easier if the Lord Chamber-
lain’s office was less fussy and
parochial over the representa-
tion of living personages on the
stage. What scope there is for
astringent political satire! Here
the cartoonist enjoys a monopoly
while the revue author, unfairly,
is left with theatre folk, Lady
Docker and such other well-
known personalities as he knows
will bear his shafts without
offence. For the rest, he must
do with the abstract, the routine
and the “blue.”
This last ingredient is much
in evidence in the earlier part
of “For Amusement Only”
(Apollo Theatre), devised and
written by Peter Myers, who,
nonetheless, employs it with
extrovert forthrightness and
entirely without salacity or
innuendo. He has, too, sortie
very good numbers good
because of the unity of concep-
tion, performance and produc-
tion. Many of them are topical,
expressed cleverly by lyrics not
over-facile in rhyming. A
Liberace take-off gets to the
heart of that splushy kind of
TV entertainment, and an
“accident” at the Old Vic, when
Juliet forgot the night and
appeared as Lady Macbeth in
the balcony scene, is very funny.
An original concerted item bur-
lesquing an amateur performance
of “The Vagabond Student” is a
splendid self-advertisement of
the technical excellence of the
whole company.
“La Plume de ma Tante”
(Garrick Theatre) is a long-
running French revue. Merci-
fully, there are no “Femmes
Nues” nor any “Nuits de Paris.”
The show exhibits the comic
genius of Robert Dhery, who
comperes and whose style per-
vades every glance and every
movement, It is virtually in
mime. In essence, his art is to
stop short of doing the obvious,
whether slapstick, straight or
“cod” numbers. A wry, tongue-
in-cheek humor underlies. The
whole, although tending to
sameness, is completely different
from anything seen before and
is carried out with amazing
professional accomplishment.


-
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.
invites you to discuss
this subject
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
Sir EDWARD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
HUGH DIXSON (Alternate Director).
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS. Manager.
U XECUTORS and Trustees are sometimes subjected to criticism because they are merely
carrying out the terms of a Will which is sadly out of date or which does not
correctly express a Testator’s wishes.
Is your Will up to date? Perhaps you would like to discuss its terms with us. We
would be glad to arrange an appointment for the purpose. Thereafter your Solicitor
can do what is necessary towards any required alteration.
Full information on this subject will be freely given on application. Why not telephone
B 0377 and make an appointment for the purpose. A Senior Officer will always be avail-
able to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,” be posted free to you.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXEOCTOB AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd.—the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
warren d. McDonald,
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit, sale property, £23,185 .. 1
1960.. 2,718.286 920,790 419,303 33,790 }■ 1,447,834
To contingency reserve, £25,000 .. j
Profit, sale property, £16,585 .. 1
1951.. 3,123,782 928,470 501,600 58,872 I , ....
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. r
To contingency reserve, £ 18,000 .. J
Profit, sale property, £19,676 .. 1 , „„„ „„.
1952.. 3,526,532 1,056,335 676,833 86,364 t i* 682 * 361
Profit, sale property, £25,897 .. ]
1953. . 4,031,907 1,128,257 644,266 78,685 12,269,237
To general reserve, £60,000 .. J
Profit, sale property, £73,881 .. 1
Interest from prior years, £20,565..
Tax-refund, £85,607 ( „ „„„
1954.. 4,566,216 1,246,472 677,450 89,918 2 > 866 ' 2 °9
To general reserve, £200,000
To deferred repairs, £15,000
Profit, sale property, £10,578
Tax-refund, £94,418
1955.. 5,046,519 1,474,846 734,579 78,431 18,212,280
To general reserve, £ 100,000
To staff fund, £15,000
JNCOME topped the £5-million mark,
A and 10,170 new policies, assuring over
£l6j--million, were put on the books in
1955, thereby establishing new records
for the 77-year-old City Mutual Life.
Average amount of cover per policy
(excluding group life-policies) was £1431,
an increase on the 1954 average of £24,
and more than double the 1949 figure.
City Mutual writes ordinary life
contracts only, and confines its activities
entirely to within Australia, where, in the
post-war years, currency-inflation, rapid
population-growth and the wider use of
life-policies in connection with the financ-
ing of home-building have stimulated
life-assurance business in a remarkable
manner.
Last term’s £5,057,092 of income (also
double that of 1949) included £3,704,318
(up £330,454) premiums on old and new
contracts and consideration for the sale
of annuities; £1,342,201 (up £149,849)
interest, dividends, rents, etc.; and
£10i573 (down £63,308) profit from the
sale of assets. Income from other sources
provided £9697 (down £8678). After
deducting all claims and expenses the
resultant surplus (excess of assurance
fund over policy - liabilities) was
£1,037,445. The £1,781,791 increase in
actuarial liabilities brought the total
policy-liability, calculated on a 2\ p.c.
net premium basis, to £28,497,152:
Income— 1954. 1955.
Premiums, etc £3,373,864 £3,704,318
Interest, divs., etc... .. 1,192,852 1,342,201
Surplus sale assets, etc. .. 73,881 10,673
Total .. .. .. £4,640,097 £5,067,092
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 1,245,472 1,474,846
Expenses* 697,368 768,010
Increased actuarial liability 1,749,045 1,781,791
Total £3,691,885 £4,019,647
Surplus 948,212 1,037,445
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
The total surplus available for distribu-
tion among policyholders—there are no
shareholders after adding £94,418
income-tax refund and £40,396 carried
forward from 1954, came to £1,172,259,
of which £15,000 was appropriated to
staff superannuation - fund, £50,000
used to write-down assets and £lOO,OOO
added to general reserves. Of the balance,
payment of interim bonuses absorbed
£2409 and provision for reversionary
bonuses, on “substantially increased”
scales, £961,578, leaving a slightly larger
amount to be carried forward this term:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Surplus earned* ..£673,444 £948,212 £1,637,445
Interest prior year.. 20,565
Tax refund .. .. 85,607 94,418
Brought forward .. 62,948 38,261 40,396
Total surplus ~ £736,392 £1,092,645 £1,172,259
Bonuses to policy-
holdersf .. .. 688,131 767,249 963,987
To write down assets 60,000 70,000 60,000
To staff fund .. 15,000
To reserve .. .. 60,000 200,000 100,000
To deferred repairs 15,000
To carry forward .. 38,261 40,396 43,272
* Includes surplus on realisation assets. f Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
Contributing to the improved results,
the net rate of interest earned by the
society on the mean life fund, after
deducting rates and taxes, increased a
further 2s. 4d. p.c. to £4 12s. 2d. p.c.,
making the total increase in the last five
years 20s. 9d. net. Over the same period
the ratio of expenses to total normal
income has been reduced from 13.3 p.c.
to 12.6 p.c.
In the investment portfolio Common-
wealth loans (35.2 p.c. of assets) and
mortgages (35.1 p.c.) predominate:
1954. p.c. 1955. p.c.
Com’wealth stock £10,461,261 36.6 £11,211,591 85.2
Local-govt. Btock 683,394 2.4 686,176 2.2
Shares and debs. 6,269,282 18.4 5,843,756 18.4
Mortgages .. 9,732,896 34.0 11,182,157 35.1
Loans on policies 922,808 3.2 1,015,013 3.2
Debtors, etc. .. 600,467 1.7 588,519 1.8
Cash, etc. .. 230,616 0.8 433,236 1.4
Properties ~ 813,165 2.9 865,611 2.7
Total .. ..£28,613,779 £31,826,059
The year’s growth in assets was
£3,212,280, of which £750,330 was
channelled into Commonwealth stock,
£1,449,261 into mortgages, and £574,474
into company shares and debentures.
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
r T'HE proposed one-for-five bonus issue,
two-for-five cash issue at par, and
the sixth consecutive 15 p.c. dividend
have pushed the £1 shares in this 71-
year-old co. to 625. Every five shares
bought at this price will enable an
ultimate holding of eight shares at an
overall average cost of 435. 9d. each.
Profit to April, ’56, was sufficient to
cover a 15 p.c. distribution on the higher
capital, and the eventual yield, on this
basis, would be over 6.8 p.c.
Scrip obtained through purchase of
rights will not participate in the next
interim div., giving the rights after
brokerage a theoretical value of around
225. 4d.
Reserves, brought up to £1,081,407 by
revaluation of fixed assets, will be
capitalised to the extent of £145,000, the
remaining £936,407 providing substantial
support for the £1,160,000 paid capital.
A further cash issue to employees of
40,000 shares at a 10s. premium is
planned, adding another £20,000 to
reserves and lifting paid capital to
£1,200,000. Both cash issues will be
payable by instalments. Latest accounts
disclose a net tangible asset backing of
495. lOd. for each of the 725,000 shares
comprising the present paid-up capital.
Steel - and machinery - merchants,
engineers and contractors, William
Adams and Co., Ltd., operates through-
out Australia, controlling two sub-
sidiaries, William Adams Steel Reinforce-
ment Co. Pty. and William Adams
Tractors Pty., the latter holding (amongst
others) the Caterpillar-tractor franchise
for Victoria and Tasmania.
The amount of last year’s record turn-
over is not disclosed, nor is the provision
for taxation at higher rates. Shareholders,
therefore, are not told which of the two
evils, rising costs and increased taxation,
is chiefly responsible for profit, at
£228,909, being £3883 under that of the
previous term. The dividend (£108,750)
took less than half the profit, reserves
improving by £120,159:
i Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.e. t Ord. >, serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1951.. 190.728 875 15 = 108,750 81,103 479,946
1952.. 195,749 15 = 108,750 86,999 566,945
1953.. 176,291 15 = 108,750 67,641 634,486
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £8543 .. 643,029
Tax overprovided, £26,535 .. .. 669,564
1964. .200,686 15 = 108,750 91,936 761,500
Added insurance reserve, £4682 .. 766,182
Tax overprovided, , £lO,OOO .. .. 776,182
1955. .282,792 15 = 108,750 124,042 900,224
To insurance reserve, £6024 .. .. 906,248
Asset revaluation, £55,000 .. .. 961,248
1956. .228,909 15 = 108,750 120,159 1,081,407
Earnings, excluding £6024 added to
insurance reserve, were at the rate of
31.6 p.c. on paid capital, following 32.1,
27.7, 24.3, 27 and 26.3 p.c. over the past
five years, total shareholders’ funds
returning 12.7 p.c. Depreciation allow-
ance was up £7720 at £53,640.
The introduction of new capital later
in the year will further strengthen the
already solid balance-sheet:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £725,000 £725,000 £725,000
Reserves . . .. 761,500 900,224 1,081,407
Overdraft ... .. 360,681 603,164 687,288
Creditors*.. .. 768,004 914,899 1,024,009
Final divs. .. 65,250 66,250 65,250
£2,670,435 £3,108,537 £3,582,954
Freeholds .. .. 354,784 377,920 648,189
Plant, etc. .. 141,197 165,341 210,255
Stocks .. .. 1,202,220 1,432,683 1,769,111
Book debts .. 888,697 1,058,322 1,025,677
Cash, etc. .. 83,537 74,371 89,722
£2,670,435 £3,108,537 £3,582,954
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
Assuming that asset-revaluation accounts
for £55,000 of the total of £548,189
shown for freehold properties, new build-
ings and extensions to existing premises
during the term increased their book-
value by £115,269 after allowing for
depreciation. Plant was up £44,914 at
£210,255, and stocks were £326,528
higher at £1,759,111. Bank overdraft
(£687,288) provided an extra £184,124,
and creditors, including tax-provision,
rose by £109,110 to £1,024,009. The
co. has also drawn on its holdings of
cash and bonds (£34,649 lower at
£39,722).
New premises in several States,
planned or under construction, will
assist the progress of the co., and there
is a steady demand for goods and services
of the type offered by the organisation.
Paid capital won’t reach the £1,200,000-
mark in the current term, but there is a
reasonable chance of a continued 15 p.c.
div. on a capital of that figure.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd,
"JVTOT long after having celebrated its
silver jubilee by the issue of £400,000
of bonus ord, shares, Dominion
Breweries, Ltd., has come up with good
news for shareholders in its announcement
of the development of a new and greatly
improved brewing-process which has
attracted considerable attention among
brewers overseas.
The result of several years’ research
by the co., the new technique is said to
remove undesirable nitrogenous elements
from a brew before fermentation and to
produce beer of much longer shelf-life
and stability than is customary under
normal brewing methods. It is also far
more economical than conventional
methods.
The right to use the new process in
Canada, the United States and Britain
has already been sold to Canadian
Breweries, Ltd., said to be the biggest
brewing enterprise in the world, and two
other internationally-known firms are
at present negotiating for the process,
which has been patented in New
Zealand, Australia, United Kingdom,
Canada, the United States, France,
Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Western
Germany, Switzerland and Sweden.
Upon its formation in 1930 out of an
amalgamation of the wholesale wine-and-
spirit business of Levers and Co. and the
Waitemata Brewery at Otahuhu, the co.
set about acquiring a chain of hotels
which would secure the market for a sub-
stantial part of the output of its brewery.
The number of freeholds at present owned
isn’t revealed, but on March 31 last the
value of land and all completed buildings
was shown at cost, less depreciation,
at £1,475,364. On the basis of paid-up
capital the co. ranks second in size among
New Zealand brewers.
Fund-raising by New Zealand enter-
prises has been restricted under Govern-
ment capital-issue controls (imposed
originally during the war), but, notwith-
standing this handicap and heavier costs,
D.B.’s profits have leaped ahead:
Mch. f Dividends To Re- Re-
-31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.o. £ £ £
1951.. 87,678 13 14 a 68,600 29,073 495,400
Share premiums, £50,000' .. .. 546,400
Profit sale fixed assets, £19,208 .. 564,608
Prom provisions, £20,000 .. .. 584,608
Reserves capitalised, £200,000 .. 384,608
1952.. 109.304 13 13= 75,331 33,973 418,581
Profit sale fixed assets, £9527 .. 428,108
Prom provisions, £96,310 .. . . 523,418
Written off investments, £26,436 .. 496,983
1953.. 179,206 13 13 = 91,000 88,206 685,189
Profit sale fixed assets, £4740 .. 589,929
Assets written up, £16,969 .. .. 606,898
1954. .197,484 13 13 = 91,000 106,484 713,382
Profit sale fixed assets, £1496 .. 714,878
1955. .207,408 13 IS s 91,000 116,408 831,286
Profit sale fixed assets, £8303 .. 834,589
Prom contingencies, £87,330 .. .. 921,919
Reserves capitalised, £400,000 .. 521,919
1966. .218,202 10 10 =llO,OOO 108,202 630,121
* All figures in New Zealand currency.
Written after providing an undisclosed
figure for ordinary and special deprecia-
tion on buildings, plant, etc., and
£326,468 (up £937) for taxation, last
year’s net profit of £218,202 (up £10,794)
represented 19.8 p.c. on capital of
£1,100,000, on which a 10 p.c. div. was
distributed. In terms of capital as it was
before the bonus-issue, financed, by the
way, without tapping inner reserves
(estimated in 1955 at about £BOO,OOO,
to be hidden in the co.’s assets), the 10
p.c. div. was equal to 15.7 p.c. Reserves
were supplemented by a profit of £3303
on the sale of assets and transfer of
£87,330 previously provided against
contingencies.
Additions to freeholds and plant, etc.,
during the year cost £176,928 more than
was written-off in depreciation, bringing
the total net investment in fixed assets to
well over £2,000,000. Current liabilities
were again little more than covered by
floating assets:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £700,000 £700,000 £1,100,000
Reserves .. .. 713,383 831,287 630,122
Mortgage .. .. 665,517 641,554 526,994
Overdraft .. .. 39,587 84,985 139,085
Creditors, etc. .. 318,449 372,022 398,446
Tax provision .. 325,000 3 60,611 326,468
Final divs. .. 45,000 45,500 65,000
£2,697,536 £2,935.959 £3,171,065
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. .. 1,828,363 2,026,920 2,203,848
Shares subsid. .. 24,950 25,016 25,015
Stock .. .. 47 2,3 0 8 4 48,7 13 4 71,847
Debtors ~ .. 367,442 414,855 432,745
Cash .. .. 14,378 20,460 37,610
£2,697,536 £2,935,959 £3,171,065
All figures in New Zealand currency.
Renewed buying activity on New Zealand
Stock Exchanges has lately carried the
co.’s £1 ords. to 995 ; , Is. above the peak
reached immediately after the announce-
ment of the sale of the rights to the co.’s
brewing-process. At that level the return
on a 10 p.c. div. basis would be a shade
over 2 p.c. Obviously the special benefits
to shareholders resulting from the sale of
rights are expected to be substantial.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
/"VVER the last four or five years
conditions in the textile industry have
been difficult, and the profits earned,
during this period, by the 35-year-old
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle),
Ltd., have varied considerably. The last
accounts (to March, ’56) show a drop in
earnings of 38.5 p.c., strong competition
and higher raw-material costs reducing
both sales and profit-margin.
Mainly concerned with the production
of knitted underwear, the co.’s products


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in alt States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
M
fi
m
The new
*
new power ... new comfort... new satety
and glorious new styling inside and out
THEY’RE HERE and on view now in your
Holden Dealer’s showroom... three wonder-
ful-looking new Holden sedans. The very last
word in beauty, performance, comfort and safety.
You’ll be proud of the new styling. These new
Holdens are longer, lower and magnificently styled
to thrill the eye. Things that you’ll like outside
include the new radiator grille, new hooded head-
lamps, new flatter bonnet and boot lid, the new
curving one-piece windscreen and broad, wrap-
around rear window. There’s a new look about
Holden inside as well as out.
You’ll thrill to the new performance. There’s
seventy gross brake horsepower now! Compression
ratio is higher at 6.8 to i. And the new 12 volt
electrical system gives improved starting, lighting
and ignition performance.
You’ll like the new safety, handling ease and comfort.
You see more in these new Holdens —vision is
increased by 40%* You ride in new comfort with
wider seating for 6 people, new front suspension,
new front stabiliser and longer wheelbase of 105".
There’s a new ball type steering ... a great asset
when driving on winding roads and for parking.
This is the car for you! A new fashion-setting
beauty and still the one car designed and built for
Australian conditions. The new Holden . . .
Australia’s own car. It’s on view now.
• There are two ‘Air Chief ’ Car Radios specially designed for the new Holden.
• Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements are available.
Australia’s Own Car
•registered
TRADE MARK
LIST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD. • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers —
PERTH
T 136
are manufactured at the main
Maryborough (Vic.) mill and at
Dunolly, Talbot and Avoca
branches. Well established and
financially strong, the co. had
its share of trouble back in
1931, when 55 p.c. of capital
was written-off. Progress since
that time can be measured by
the fact that reserves now total
more than twice the paid capital
of £199,034.
A one-for-three cash issue of
ss. ords., called up to Is., was
made late in 1955, adding
£12,848 to paid capital. There
are 8 p.c. participating prefs. to
the amount of £26,262.
Last term, gross profit at
£167,772 was down by £31,990,
but careful control over ex-
penses cushioned the effect on
net earnings, which were lower
by £20,196 at £32,229. The
previous term’s £15,000 provi-
sion for depreciation was
repeated, while the tax-com-
missioner’s share is estimated to
be £6500 lower at £26,000:
Dividends . Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves.
£ £ £
1951.. 66,709 22.2 p.c. = 24,825 305,654
Reserves capitalised, £18,618 287,036
1952.. 31.673 10 p.c. = 18,619 300,090
From tax reserve, £8665 .. 308,655
1953.. 29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 814,563
From tax reserve, £7859 .. 822,422
1954.. 62,764 10 p.c. = 18,619 366,567
Tax underprovided, £2145 .. 864,422
1955.. 52.425 12$ p.c. = 28,273 393,574
Tax overprovided, £2288 .. 395,862
1956.. 32.229 12i p.c. = 24,049 404,042
On paid capital (prefs. partici-
pate in divs. over 8 p.c.) the net
showing was 16.2 p.c., compared
with 28. i, 33.7, 15.8 and 17 p.c.
in the four preceding years.
Dividend, raised from 10 p.c.
to 12i p.c. in 1955, has been kept
at that level, requiring £24,049.
Reserves were strengthened to
the extent of £BlBO (down
£20,972) from profit and £2288
from an overprovision for tax.
The balance-sheet discloses a
sound financial structure, the
particularly strong reserves
being a prime factor in bumping
shareholders’ funds to over 88
p.c. of balance-sheet totals:
Paid capital — 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. £26,263 £26,263 £26,262
Ord. .. 159,923 159,923 172,772
Reserves . . 366,567 393,574 404,042
Overdraft .. 10,736 24,462
Creditors .. 32,977 43,091 24,808
Tax reserve 46,500 32,500 26,000
Staff fund .. 6,000 6,000 6,000
Dividend .. 18,619 23,273 24,049
£667,585 £709,086 £683,933
Freeholds .. 69,751 74,601 74,836
Plant, etc... 107,741 108,813 102,012
Stocks . . 314,247 374,801 325,923
Book debts 158,826 123,852 138,909
Cash, etc... 22,020 27,019 42,253
£667,585 £709,086 £683,933
In common with most knitwear-
manufacturers, the co, is carry-
ing smaller stocks (down
£48,878 at £325,923). The funds
thus released, together with
undistributed profit and proceeds
of the share-issue, have enabled
the overdraft to be eliminated,
creditors to be reduced by
£18,283 to £24,808, and holdings
of cash and investments to be
built-up by £15,234 to £42,253.
Fixed assets are conserva-
tively stated. Provision for de-
preciatioh of plant, amounting
to £lOO,OOO, has been deducted
from a valuation (1950) or cost-
price of £202,012.
During the first two months
of the current term sales
improved, and forward orders
were at a satisfactory level.
Extensions to the Maryborough
mill are in progress, and the
increased efficiency expected to
result from their completion
should assist the co. to secure
further its substantial share of
the Australian knitwear market.
The ord. shares (asset-backing
14s. Id.) at 7s. 3d. return 8.6
p.c. The contributing shares
(paid to Is.) have changed hands
recently at 2s. 3d.
Pierwood Plastics, Ltd.
BY offering to exchange one
f.-p. ss. share for each three
similar shares in Pierwood,
Moulded Products, Ltd., is
obtaining Pierwood assets at a
reasonable price. On the other
hand, Pierwood shareholders
accepting the offer can expect
dividends with a great deal more
certainty. With the tangible
asset-backing a shade under
4s. 9d., Pierwood scrip has
recently changed hands at 3s. 9d.
The market prices the ss. ords.
in Moulded Products at around
135., making their offer worth
4s. 4d. a share, a continued 14
p.c. div. from the much larger
co. returning the Pierwood share-
holder 4.6 p.c. on the par-value
of his old shares.
Formed in 1948, Pierwood
Plastics, Ltd., produces a large
range of plastic articles, includ-
ing kitchenware, toys and radio-
cabinets. Paid capital amounts to
£487,101, of which £lOO,OOO is
in 5 p.c. prefs. held by the City
Mutual Life Society.
Higher expenses and diffi-
culties in subsidiary cos. are
held to be responsible for the
big drop in earnings disclosed
by the last accounts (to Decem-
ber, 1955). After providing
£11,067 (up £6993) to cover the
co.’s share of the loss incurred
by a partly-owned subsidiary
(Stancast Pty.), net profit was
down by £18,658 at £4854. Pro-
vision for taxation was £1941
higher at £9OOO, and depreciation
up £6427 to £43,213. Pref. div.
of £5OOO has been met with the
assistance of previously unappro-
priated profits, reserves being
practically written-off to a pro-
vision against the intangibles in
subsidiary cos.:
Pier wood Plastics and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends ■,
Pref. Re- A
Dec., Profit. 5 p.e. Ord. serves, i
£ £ £ £
1950*.36,841 1250 6±p.c.=12,562 75,866
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 85,866
Intangibles written off, £6653. 79,213
Taxes previous years, £779 . . 78.434
1951.. 55,590 5000 10 p.c.=28,190 100,834
Intangibles written off, £10,860 90,474
1952.. 14,342 5000 Nil
Intangibles written off, £6000.. 94,81 b
1953.. 50,935 5000 10 p.c.=37,810 102,941
Intangibles written off,. £30,000 72,941
To stock revaluation
reserve, £20,000 .. •• 52,941
1954.. 23,512 5000 5 p.c.=19,365 52,098
Intangibles written off, £50,386 1*712
1955.. 4,854 5000 Nil 1*565
* Six months. t Subject to intangibles,
£22,612 at 31/12/’55.
Reserves, down to £1565, are
£21,047 less than the value given
to intangibles (£22,612). No
ordinary dividend was possible.
The sale of the co.’s holdings
in M.I. Products included the
cancellation of £7 5, 000-worth of
6 p.c. notes, and, by reducing
overdraft (down £24,756 to
£267,652) and more than halving
creditors (£148,334 less at
£130,298), shareholders’ funds,
for the first time in two years,
exceed outside money in the
business:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. ’.. .. 387,101 387,101
Reserves .. .. 52,097 1,565
Outside interests.. 3,982
Mortgage .. 60,000 68,000
Unsecured notes .. 76,000
Overdraft .. .. 292,408 267,652
Creditors, etc.* .. 278,632 130,298
Final divs. .. 19,355
£1,268,575 £955,831
Freeholds .. .. 180,002 189,008
Plant, etc. .. 230,736 223,475
Shares other cos... 179 *810
Stocks .. .. 355 ’15,
Debtors, etc. .. 291,201 1<7,835
Cash . . 901 17,151
Intangibles .. 50,171 22,612
£1,268,575 £955,831
* Includes provision for taxation.
The shareholding in partly-
owned companies, already
reduced considerably by the M.I.
Products sale, will shrink further
during the current term when a
partly-owned (£80,000) sub-
sidiary reverts to its former
associate status. Although only
a slight fall is admitted in the
parent co.’s turnover, there is a
sizeable drop in debtors (£113,366
lower at £177,835), while stocks
are at their lowest for five years
—down £104,143 at £231,611.
The reduced scope of the co.’s
activities is also indicated by the
smaller working capital (£28,647),
£BBl4 under that of 12 months
ago.
The competition in the
expanding plastics industry
demands adequate funds for
development, and the directors
of Pierwood, in recommending
Moulded Products’ offer to
shareholders, are aware of their
co.’s financial limitations, as well
as its lack of reserves.
“Papinaipi”
PAPUAN APINAIPI Petro-
leum Co. has announced, as
a prelude to the issue at par of
3,000,000 ss. shares (with options)
a proposed drilling programme
consisting of the sinking of four
wells to about 4000 ft. with a
second-hand T 32 mobile drilling-
plant.
The design of this machine
cannot be faulted, and is
identical with that which has
given such satisfactory service
in the Carnarvon Basin
(W.A.). It is capable, in
experienced hands and under
good conditions, of better-
ing 6000 ft., but, in the difficult
and treacherous heaving shale
which is known to fill the Aure
Trough, underlying P.A.P.’s
permit area for a thickness of the
order of 10,000 ft., its actual per-
formance may be limited by
local conditions.
Australasian Petroleum, with
all the facilities available to it
through partnership with major
oil-groups and using a much
heavier-duty rig manned by
drillers experienced in the
problems of penetrating incom-
petent strata, stopped its Hohoro
well at 4721 ft. and its Upoia well
at 5356 ft., while P.A.P. itself lost
its first well at around 2500 ft.
in what was (for Papua east of
the Purari River) comparatively
undisturbed strata.
An insidious property of this
heaving shale is that it produces
small, but non-commercial,
spurts of oil and gas at frequent
intervals throughout the column.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Not for many years has a more lovely
voice than that of Victoria de los Angeles
been heard in the Town Hall, and the
large audience quickly responded to its
magic. The gown worn by the Spanish
soprano at her first recital was of grey and
orchid-pink lace. The full skirt was
short in front, graduating into full
length until at the back it billowed out
to the floor. A cape-stole of the lace
covered the strapless bodice. With it she
wore a simple strand of pearls. In the
audience were Lady Tait, wearing a dyed-
ermine coat over a black frock; Mrs.
Ewart Chappell, in a frock of filmy black
lace; Mrs. John Chaldjian, who covered
her black frock with a sapphire-blue
mink-stole; Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzgerald,
Mrs. Marjorie Burke, Mr. and Mrs. A.
T. Smithers, and singers Glenda Ray-
mond and Edna Ralston.
& Q 3}
Fifty years of rowing was celebrated by
Xavier College with a golden-anniversary
dinner-ball at the Royale Ballroom. A
feature was the presence of the Olympic
rowing-crew, the stroke of which is Brian
Doyle, an Old Boy of Xavier. The
school colors set the theme for the
decorations: scarlet poinsettias, red and
black curtains, huge clusters of red and
black balloons suspended from the
columns round the ballroom, and on each
table a cluster of red camellias tied with
black ribbon. The Rector of Xavier, the
Rev. Father F. J. Boylan, assisted by
ball-committee chairman Robert Chappell
and Mrs. Chappell, received the official
guests.
Among these were the Mayor and
Mayoress of Kew (Cr. Cyril Justin
McCarthy and Mrs. McCarthy), her
lovely gown being of beige hand-worked
French Chantilly-lace and black silk
taffeta; and Dr. and Mrs. W. Scarffe.
President of the College ladies-committee,
Mrs. Scarffe chose a lovely gown of blush-
pink duchesse-satin, the full skirt grace-
ful, the strapless bodice encrusted with
gold embroideries; with it was worn a
matching-satin stole.
Mrs. Joffre Smiley’s pale-grey nylons
had ruffles in darker grey ; Mrs. “Bing”
Molyneux wore silver-grey satin patterned
in a feather-design of darker grey; Mrs.
Harry Sinn teamed a high-waisted black
taffeta skirt with a white guipure-lace top
embroidered in crystals; Mrs. Emmett
Spring’s short white sheath-frock was
embroidered in a gold tree-design, with
every leaf centred with a sparkling rhine-
stone ; Mrs. J. D. Thom (who did the
publicity for the ball) wore a gown of
powder-blue satin; Mrs. Raymond Bux-
ton wore white-embroidered black satin,
Mrs. John Bowen pale-blue organza
patterned in a white lace-design.
# V
Floods in Victoria and the N.S.W.
Riverina affected attendance at New-
market for the 74th Sheepbreeders Asso-
ciation Show, at which the Ivor Mantons
and the Ken Lukes got among the major
prizes. Association president Arthur
R. Beggs, of Beaufort, was accompanied
by his wife, who wore with her smart
blue-tweed suit a brown felt hat. Mrs.
Sandford Beggs and her daughter
Tamara were also there, thd latter with
her fiance, Malcolm Fraser, M.H.R.
From Tasmania came Mrs. John Foster
and her daughter Angela. Mrs. Norman
Gubbins, of Birregurra, chose a natty
Wedgwood-blue tweed-suit checked in
brown.
Cotton has become high fashion in the
lingerie field —cotton so fine that it looks
like silk. And when mixed with dacron
the finished fabric is as fine as lawn.
Its great advantage is that it can be drip-
dried and needs no ironing.
In the new styles for the coming sea-
son, Kayser’s, of Flinders-lane, have
looked ahead to the Olympics and have
introduced a wattle motif into two gar-
ments, which are lovely and outstanding.
For Olympic visitors they’ll be packed in
special Australian wrappings.
One garment is the new and fascinating
shortie - pyjama. Of white nylon
embroidered in the golden-wattle motif,
its rounded Empire-neckline is laced
with wattle-yellow ribbon, and the same
treatment is given to the short, puffed
sleeves. Wattle-embroidery also appears
on a filmy full-length nightgown of nylon
de luxe, in soft wattle-yellow tonings.
This has a high Empire-bodice and is cut
into a deep V at the back. Matching
wattle-yellow nylon-ribbon is used as a
finish.
These garments, with many others,
were shown by Kayser’s in their display
last Wednesday. Cool and refreshing in
the grace and charm of the Victorian
era was a simple, full-length nightgown
in Stoeffels cotton. More striking were
three nightgowns in which ever-changing
color was introduced by the use of two
skirts. Pale-pink merged into yellow,
pink-over-blue and, in a third, pale and
deeper blue achieved the iridescent look.
A new fabric was introduced in a petti-
coat with three layers—the first in
embroidered-nylon horsehair, the second
of 40-denier-nylon and the third of
stiffened taffeta. It was in white with
a pattern of tiny pink roses between the
layers.
Also shown was the “baby doll”
shortie-pyjama, now the rage in America.
Gold-lurex embroidery was used to
highlight the high Eastern collar on one,
which was in embossed cotton. Very
lovely was the sheath-petticoat, most
suitable for the new sheath-line ; it was
of black nylon-lace mounted on white,
with the skirt slit at the back for com-
fort. Kayser’s have introduced two new
colors in their hosiery—desert-gold, a
light-sand shade, and pink spice, a nylon
with a warm-pink undertone.
☆ ☆ *
News comes from England that
Ronnie Goodlet, who was Miss Victoria
and who set off for London in April,
has been doing extremely well over there
at modelling. Recently she was one of
six models chosen to show cotton-dresses
for Princess Margaret, and she writes
that the Princess “is really lovely, her
complexion exquisite, and she looks so
fragile, just like a piece of Dresden
china.”
An engagement of great interest is that
of pretty Leslie Jacqueline, elder daughter
of E. R. Reynolds, Q.C., and Mrs.
Reynolds, of Bruce-street, Toorak.
Leslie’s fiance is lan Edward, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Hayne, Lascelles-
avemte, Toorak. Educated at St.
Catherines, Leslie is now working with
a shipping firm in Melbourne. lan, an
Old Boy of Geelong Grammar, is follow-
ing a business career in Brisbane. Plans
are being made for the wedding,
probably next April. Leslie’s future
home, for at least four years, will be in
Brisbarie. Her engagement-ring is a
lovely diamond, set at each side with three
smaller ones.
1 Members of the Elizabethan Drama
Company were guests at the informal
luncheon given by the Young Contin-
gent of the Victoria League. President
Pamela Middleton, social-secretary Eliza-
beth McMeeking, Barbara Hewitt,
Margot Krohn and Jeanette Pritchard
received the guests. Bright check table-
cloths and bowls of mixed flowers made
a gay background. Senior members of
the league at the luncheon were Mrs. R.
F. Quinton, Mrs. F. Hobill-Cole and
Mrs. ,T. G. Bowen Allen. Ray Lawler,
author of “Summer of the 17th Doll” (he
is also appearing in his play at the
Comedy), was guest-speaker, and was
accompanied by his fiancde, “Jacky”
Kelleher. Other members of the Drama
Company present were Marie Tomasetti,
Zoe Caldwell, Norman Coburn, Norman
Robertson and George Ogilvie.
SYDNEY
The spotlight on social activity shifted
to Alice Springs for a space last week
for the Australian premiere of the
English film-version of Nevil Shute’s
novel A Town Like Alice. Peter Finch,
the film-star, who had been causing slight
traflic-jams in Sydney the previous week,
was one of those who took himself off
to the heart of Australia ; also a bevy,
40-strong, of film-critics and radio-
people (or “personalities,” as they prefer
to be called).
This left Sydney bereft of many of its
most articulate members, but the couple
of million (give or take one or two) who
were left were fairly happy in the sunny
weather, some of them sunbaking on the
beaches and a few actually bathing in
the surf. It is no small thing, when the
matter of how early in spring one braved
the breakers comes up, to be able to say
that in 1956 one “made it in July!”
Jan Ryder, who is the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George Ryder, of Bellevue Hill,
will probably be the first bride to be
married in the new Memorial Chapel of
The Scots’ College. Her marriage to John
Higson (son of the H. C. Higsons, of
Darling Point, he’s an Old Boy of Scots)
will take place on September I. Jan will
be attended by Mrs. Lloyd Martin, her
cousin Suzanne Darling, Beverley Sned-
den and her future sister-in-law, Helen
Higson, with her small cousins, Lyndall
Scott and Gillian Hancock as flower-
girls. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
There were two weddings of particular
interest during the week, the first being
that of Robin McFadyen to Sandy
Mackay' at St. Andrew’s, Rose Bay.
Robin’s dress was of heavy magnolia
satin, full-length and buttoned from
neckline to hem and cut into a beautiful
train at the back. She carried a mag-
nificent bouquet of magnolias and wore
an elbow-length veil. Bridesmaid
Margaret Mackay was in white tulle
trimmed with magnolia satin.
Country districts were well repre-
sented at the wedding, the bridegroom
being the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. D. R.
Mackay, of Mungyar, Merrywinebone.
Reception for 250 guests was held at
the Wentworth Hotel by the bride’s
parents, Mr. Lionel McFadyen (he is the
president of the Stock Exchange) and
Mrs. McFadyen.
* fc *
Astrid Nilsson and Phillip Burden
received cables from friends all over the
world on their wedding-day last Satur-
day, good wishes speeding in from
Africa, Sweden, England, America, Scot-
land and all parts of Australia. Astrid
is the daughter of the C. Roy Nilssons,
of Rose Bay; Phillip, the son of the late
Mr. P. H. Burden and Mrs. Burden,
comes from Adelaide.
It was an all-white wedding, the bride
in fine Brussels-lace which had been
specially flown from Belgium, and her
attendants —Mrs. Lyel Downing, Sue
Remington and Beverley Coles —wearing
street-length dresses of delustred satin,
bell-shaped in front and with bustles at
the back caught in with a bow. They
wore curvettes of violets in their hair
and carried muffs made of violets.
Marshall Wilson was best man.
After the marriage at St. Mark’s,
Darling Point, a reception for 200 guests
was held at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
There was only one foundation-
member of the Society of Arts and Crafts
present at the opening of its 50th anni-
versary exhibition, but Miss Florence
Sulman, the president, who opened it fas
it was “a family affair”), has been a
member for 46 years, and has been
identified with its growth and develop-
ment. The foundation-member who
came along was Mrs. Charles Hedley, of
Mosman, and she wore a memento of
another foundation-member, Miss M.
Creed—a delicate wrought-silver-and-
opal pendant. Speakers at the opening
were Miss M. R. Innes, Miss Dorothy
Helmrich, Mr. A. R. Penfold and Mrs.
Margaret Preston (who suggested that
local councils should ~~be asked to set
aside a room in the council-chambers
where married women could learn arts
and crafts).
# » j?
World-famous violinists are appearing
at the Town Hall this week like Box and
Cox —Mischa Elman giving recitals on
Monday, Wednesday, Saturday and the
following Monday ; Frenchman Christian
Ferras taking up Tuesday and Thursday
nights and Saturday afternoon. Perhaps
it might pay violin-addicts to take up
residence in the T.H. It would save
tram-fares.
At Saturday night’s concert, when
Ferras played with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, Mr. and Mrs. Elman
were present with accompanist Seiger.
Also noted thefe were Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Hunt, with Mrs. Charles Moses,
Mrs. Hope Gibson (who is organising a
musicale and buffet-dinner at the
Vaucluse home of Mr. and Mrs. H. V.
Single for the Musica Viva on Satur-
day), and Mrs. Nora Taplin.
* ☆ *
Members of the Little Theatre Groups,
who number many hundreds in Sydney,
are joining together to act as a Younger
Set to the Elizabethan Theatre ball-
committee. Convenor is the Metropolitan
Operetta Company, that vigorous
organisation whose president, Mrs. Dot
Ball, and secretary, Noel Pelly, have
also arranged monthly social-gatherings
at the Royal Empire Society for its
members. Last Saturday a most amusing
play-reading .was given by members of
the Ida Newton Players, reinforced by
Operetta-members Peter Calrow and
John Gardiner.
☆ ☆ ☆
A lovely Japanese garden with willows
and a bridge over a lake, a pergola and
spring blossom will be main features of
the decorations for the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball on September 21. There’ll be lan-
terns hanging from the galleries and
clusters of bamboo encircling the pillars.
Debutantes, with Mrs. W. E. Hopkins as
matron-of-honor, will be presented to the
Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Kenneth Street.
# #
Debs, at the R.S.L. Victory Ball, to be
held at the Trocadero on August 9, are
being trained by Mrs. Ella Westwood
(who was Mrs. Ella Mawer until her
marriage last year). They will be
presented to the Governor, Sir John
Northcott. Arrangements are being
made to have quantities of spring flowers
brought from the country for the decora-
tions, which will incorporate the tradi-
tional satin-banners depicting famous
battles in which the Australian Forces
won distinction. These banners will
form a background for the tableau show-
ing the “V” for Victory to be formed by
the debutantes.
☆ ☆ *
Quotation from artist Mrs. Margaret
Preston, speaking at the opening of the
Society of Arts and Crafts 50th Annual
Exhibition. “Sport is a dead-end job if
ever there was one. All this running the
mile in under four minutes is very clever,
no doubt, but where does it lead?”
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. Roy MsCaughey and Mrs.
Lennox Bode are to be judges of the
loveliest dresses at the Black and White
Ball in October. With them will be
another “well-known,” yet to be chosen.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott, who
will be acting as Governor-General at
the time, will be present at the ball.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Mischa Elman, wife of the
violinist, wears an interesting charm on
her silver-link bracelet. A disk with three
bars of music picked out in diamonds, it
was given to her by her husband for a
special occasion. The music represents
the three opening bars of Irving Berlin’s
“1 Love You.”


RIVERDELL FLATS
Old Burleigh Road,
BROAD BEACH,
Surfer’s Paradise, Q’land.
NEW ULTRA MODERN FUR-
NISHED FLATS TO LET, for
long or short periods. Every
Comfort, including Refrigeration,
Hot and Cold Water, Wall-to-
Wall Carpets and Inner-spring
Mattresses throughout. Close to
Surf (patrolled beach). Near
Lennon’s New Hotel. For ideal
holiday accommodation, write
now to Resident Proprietors.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. EISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster,
Missing Friend
McKlLLOP.—Children or descendants of
MARY McKILLOP (bom MACKIE), who
married DANIEL McKILLOP. Ayrshire,
Scotland, in 1843, and died Golden Point,
Ghewton, Victoria, in 1865 (after 17 years
in Victoria), or any persons able to
give information concerning them, please
communicate forthwith to the under-
signed. The persons sought are prob-
ably interested in a deceased estate.—
RITCHIE & ARNOLD. Solicitors, 6-7
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE CHARLES BEAVIS.—TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL LILLIAN BEAVIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce in Suit
No. 1824 of 1956 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by the Bth October 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from TAPERELL & PETERSEN, Soli-
citors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. •
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
0
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt
Some musicians are natural
orchestral players, some are
natural virtuosos, and some are
born to be conductors. Hans
Schmidt - Isserstedt, who is
making a comeback to the Mel-
bourne Town Hall platform,
seems to belong to the class of
born conductor. He once tried
his hand at composition and
wrote an opera, but came to the
conclusion that Mozart had done
the same thing ever so much
better, so he gave up composing
and went back to his conducting
with a better understanding of
himself and the great composers.
He brought this understanding
to a programme which included
Gluck’s graceful Alcestis, Bela
Bartok’s jolly Divertimento, the
massive architecture of Beet-
hoven’s Eroica Symphony and
oboe-concertos by Telemann and
Handel in which Jiri Tancibudek
played the solo part with a
beauty, accuracy and finish that
was all-sufficing. The 80-or-so
members of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra rose to the
occasion and reflected the moods
of the various composers like
so many mirrors.
The resultant performance sur-
passed anything that has been
heard in Melbourne for a long
time. If the orchestra was on
its toes, so was the audience.
Members of the former had an
expression on their faces at the
finish which seemed to say,
“Well, we never knew we had
it in us.”
* ♦> ♦!«
Themselves Alone
[From London]
The idea behind Robert Help-
mann’s production of “Romeo
and Juliet” (Old Vic) is a worthy
one. He gives the early scenes
not quite their full weight and,
after Tybalt’s murder, con-
centrates upon the story of the
lovers. This, helped by a pictorial
recital of the action, does have
the effect of smoothing out the
play. In the best Vic tradition,
it closes on the two corpses,
which have lain sprawled across
each other for minutes on end.
Juliet he takes literally as a
fourth-former. Claire Bloom,
now happily prepared to act and
not merely to posture, might just
have reached the fifth. She really
acts, not mimics, a young girl.
But whatever the text may say,
anything less than maturity
ruinously inhibits the part.
John Neville’s Romeo is the
disappointment of the season.
Touchstone and Audrey were
hardly a more incongruous pair
than he and Juliet. Only when
the lovers are alone are they
credible. Romeo might have dis-
covered not the love of loves, but
Chapman’s Homer; and his
crusted preciosity suggests a
jaded touring actor-manager of
other days. Perhaps he is over-
tired after a hard-worked season.
The production is not without
gimmicks and tricks that don’t
quite come off. Loudon Saint-
hill’s set, of colonnades and
platforms joined by a bridge,
nearly fills the stage and restricts
the players, but it helps to centre
the action.
Among the innovations are a
youngish Friar Laurence (Jack
Gwillim), fresh from the Youth
Club and the playing-fields, and
a gushing, saucy Nurse (Wynne
Clark). Paul Rogers’s sardonic
Mercutio is crisp and fruity,
leaving a void after his passing.
The corporate standard and
the verse-speaking especially
need to be improved before the
American tour.
<£> ♦!«
“Sailor Beware”
“Sailor Beware,” at Brisbane
Her Majesty’s, presents the
finest specimen of a prospective
mother-in-law since Wilde
netted his Lady Bracknell.
Under the ample, puffed
breast-feathers of this maternal
monster (presented to the last
pin-feather by Olive Walter)
shelters the best reconstruction
of English lower-class domesti-
city seen for many a day, with
Tony Bazell as the father (but
not master) of the household,
and with Marcia Hathaway, as
the daughter, achieving to the
life the pertness and faint whiff
of a whine that distingishes the
Cockney voice from the Aus-
tralian.
Although the play is more
likely to remain in the repertory
of amateur groups than in
histories of English drama, much
of it adds up to extremely comic
entertainment —the high spirits
of all members of the family;
the two able-seamen, Anthony
Wager and Desmond Tester,
unable to cope with stormy
domesticity; and the vej-y
amusing sketches of the neighbor
and the household aunt.
v.v.
* ❖
University Festival
The side-door swung open and
a brace of black-gowned figures
silently threaded on to the plat-
form. Conductor Peter Platt
appeared, there was a note or
two from the piano, and the
strains of Victoria’s “O Quam
Gloriosum” floated gently down
Sydney University’s Great Hall.
Then, after singing a Palestrina
motet, the Pro Musica Society
Choir attacked Byrd’s fugal
“Laetenteur Coeli.” One mar-
velled at Peter Platt’s enterprise
in presenting unaccompanied
early music with a choir short
of tenors and basses. After the
astringent harmony of another
Byrd item—“Civitas Sancti Tui”
—Mr. Platt shepherded his
singers through chansons and
madrigals, nearly all of 16th-
century make, all lively and all
influenced by a single forced
soprano voice. Oboist lan Wil-
son with four other woodwinds
contributed a Wind Quintet in
E Flat by Anton Reicha,
Haydnesque and expertly played.
After interval there was a
bracket of 15th-century songs,
and here a couple of trombones
were thrown-in with the voices
to make things merrier. Back
came the woodwinds to play
Hindemith’s “Kleine Kammer-
musik,” where lan Wilson’s
phrasing was clear, if melody
and meaning weren’t. Finally,
two contemporary Sydneysiders,
Malcolm Williamson and Trevor
Jones, displayed their wares, the
latter’s setting of Ogden Nash’s
“On Slacks” especially good.
The week’s other Festivality
was Elautus’s “Mostellaria,” put
on at the Wallace Theatre by
the S.U. Classical Society. Being
in Latin, it was Greek to this
commentator; but one noted
some nifty gallivanting by Rod
Sheehan and Bob Merrillees,
also lan Ward’s portrait of a
drunken roisterer.
A. W.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Shakspeare’s Moods
One of the many facets of
Shakspeare’s greatness is the
awareness of music that can be
felt in almost every line he wrote,
and for its programme “The
Moods of Will Shakspeare” the
Cammeray Music Group
attempted to evoke this music, to
wed it to word and movement
and project it against the poet’s
time.
The mood for the evening was
set with a paraphrase of
“Greensleeves,” in which the
melody began as a gentle
dialogue between a recorder-
group and the piano (Annette
Erskine-Smith), to be handed
over to voice (Alan Gamble) and
rounded-off by the Patricia Page
Dancers.
From there on a narrator
(Keith Goddard) unfolded the
moods of the poet in a number
of vignettes: love and laughter
in scenes from “The Taming of
the Shrew” and “Much Ado
About Nothing” (Thora Small
and Hamilton Howell), the
sorrow of death in a moving
episode from “Othello,” includ-
ing the song of the willow
(Patricia Moore), and the
ribaldry of gay companionship
in Falstaff’s drinking-song
(Dougla-s Parnell).
The production was written
and compiled by Hamilton
Howell and Maximilian Rath.
M.R.
“Cornerstone”
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre, in association with the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, pre-
sented this domestic drama by
Gwen Meredith. Tending to
slickness and sentimentality,
it still affords opportunities
for competent performances,
the heaviest demands being
made upon Betty Ross as
the self-sacrificing daughter tied
to her aged mother. The opening
moments of the play were in-
audible, the players apparently
unable to rise above the din of
the regular late-comers.
V.V.
Artbursts
Artistic Contrasts
Melbourne National Gallery is
providing a study in contrasts by
hanging an exhibition of con-
temporary Italians simultane-
ously with a selection from its
own treasures of portraiture past
and present.
The Italian exhibition is a con-
vincing demonstration that there
is nothing so universal as a
fashion. If there is anything
typically Italian about the paint-
ings it is a joyous tendency to
fling color about with the
exuberance of a prima donna
flinging around top notes. One
or two acknowledge the exist-
ence of natural phenomena like
trees and human-beings, but
without indicating that their
authors had more than a
nodding acquaintance with such
things.
The gallery of portraits is a
very different matter. It ranges
from the second century a.d.
through the period of the High
Renaissance to Rembrandt and
on to the present era, and,
although separated so far by
place and time, every artist seems
to be fired with the same simple
objective. Here is Rembrandt in
his last years painting his own
face over and over again with
the same expression on it and
apparently intensely preoccupied
with getting his red nose with
just the right glow on it. Here is
Titian painting a fat monk, El
Greco a thin grandee, Raeburn a
Scots laird and a purple-faced
old sea-dog, Augustus John a
lord mayor, Max Meldrum his
mother and Frederick McCub-
bin, Tom Roberts and John
Longstaff other persons.
Most do it more-or-less well;
some better than others. No one,
except perhaps John, is trying to
outshout his neighbor or to
obtrude his personality or soul
or something. There is nothing
typically Italian about Titian’s
monk that would differentiate it
from Rembrandt’s burgher
except the costume.
If El Greco’s grandee were
dressed in kilts and painted in
a warm light instead of a cold
one it would be difficult to differ-
entiate him from Raeburn’s
Scotchman, and if Meldrum,
when he painted the portrait of
his mother, had had at his
disposal the now-lost plastic
technique that Rembrandt used
to paint his self-portrait it would
be difficult to say whose hand
had been busy.
The inference is that it is an
sesthetic thing these portraits
have in common. They are out-
side fashions ; they are timeless.
It is this assthetic thing, the
quality of observation, which
makes Rembrandt’s self-portrait
a brother to the Meldrum and as
modem as the Meldrum, and it is
the absence of it which makes
the “contemporary” Italians stale
and old-fashioned.
Dobell, unfortunately, is repre-
sented by a very poor example.
If his “Professor Giblin” had
been included it would probably
be seen to be in the great tradi-
tion. More unfortunately, Justus
Jorgensen isn’t represented at all,
although his self-portrait is in
the Gallery’s possession. Its rich
browns and reds and yellows
would place it alongside the
Rembrandt, for which it is a
foundation.
Mervyn Skipper.
❖ ❖
C. Dudley Wood
C. Dudley Wood has covered
the walls of the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau in Melbourne
with Australian murals —parrots,
bears, kangaroos, cockatoos,
lyrebirds, golden-wattle, ibises,
goannas, possums, red kangaroo-
paws and Major Mitchells, blue-
faced honeyeaters and grass-
trees, ghost-gums, orange-chats,
banksias and lambs’-tails. It is
a richly colored and meticulously
painted encyclopaedia of the flora
and fauna of his native country,
with boomerangs, abos., anthills
and galahs thrown in for full
measure. He even makes a lively
decoration out of sandhills. If
visitors to the Melbourne Olym-
piad want an exciting summary
of this country’s natural pro-
ducts, here they have it.
Talkies
“Rififi” (Sydney Savoy):
Cracksmen who feel the need for
post-graduate study in the art
of really big safe-jobs should
profit from a visit to this film —
it shows in detail the latest in
safe-busting and beating “fool-
proof” burglar-alarms. The story
concerns a gang of four inter-
national crooks who plan and
accomplish a big jewel-robbery
in Paris. A rival gang tries to
rob the robbers of the fruits of
their work, and they proceed to
wipe each other out with the
utmost goriness. It is a film of
remarkable tensions, informed
by the best French craftsman-
ship in acting and directing.
“The Man in the Grey
Flannel Suit” (Sydney Century):
Two themes are developed
separately and then cleverly
interwoven in this marathon
film: the relentless urge of a
wife to drive her husband up
the business-executive ladder;
and the discovery by the husband
that he sired an illegitimate son
in Italy during the war and that
the girl and the child are in
dire straits. Despite its length—
two-and-a-half hours —there is
no drag anywhere, and there are
appealing portraits by Marisa
Pavan and Jennifer Jones, with
Gregory Peck, as the husband,
taking the main burden.
“Carrington, V.C.” (Sydney
Embassy): The V.C.-winner, a
major popular with the troops,
is hard-up and unable to obtain
from a dilatory paymaster the
back-pay to which he is entitled.
To bring things to the notice
of Top Brass he takes some of
the canteen-funds, after telling
his intentions to his C. 0., a
dugout-colonel who hates him.
The C.-O. pots him, and he’s up
for court-martial. Most of the
film’s action is in the court-
martial room, and the clashing
of personalities, the wry humor
and forthright drama add up to
tiptop entertainment. Best work
comes from David Niven as the
accused and Geoffrey Keen as
the court-president.
“Othello” (Sydney Vogue):
Adapted in the broadest sense by
Orson Welles, this film has the
original plot with an occasional
Shakspearian quotation thrown
in. With the exception of the
few pre-title shots showing the
funeral of Othello and Des-
demona, the film has none of the
originality which distinguished
Olivier’s “Richard III.” Its sav-
ing features are the scenes of
ruined Italian architecture,
particularly the interior of the
castle. Welles is a dignified and
human Othello, although he
doesn’t earn the sympathy which
is his due.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
STORY TO NOW
Bob Anders becomes overseer
of Yakaparni cattle-station far
out in Central Queensland, an
appointment arranged by city
bank - manager Forster, who
knows the property is not being
well run. Owner Carson, hating
cattle-work though otherwise
wmpped-up in the property,
gives Bob a free hand to make
needed changes, including put-
ting on as new cattlemen tough
little Wonga Watkins, Mick
Grey, Steve Hartley and Duffy
Spooner, along with the odd pair
of cattledogs Sneezer and
Boozer. Mrs. Carson, fond of
her explosive husband, quietly
manages him. Their teenage
daughter, Julia, on a vacation
from city schooling, strikes Bob
as rather affected, but before
returning proves a first-class
horsewoman. In weekend breaks
Bob divides his time between
reunions with the Stewart
brothers {of his old A.I.F. unit )
at Curly Ryan’s Dilargo town-
ship pub, and going to dances
with Carla Greer, daughter of
the township’s popular doctor.
CHAPTER XVIII {continued)
IT was Carson who made me
think about my Dilargo
visits.
“Bob,” he said, as we
stood on the veranda waiting for
the dinner-bell to ring one even-
ing, “I know it’s none of my
business, but I’m only asking for
your own good. Are you serious
with the Greer girl?”
“Good Heavens, no!” I
answered, honestly startled by
the question. “Whatever gave
you that idea?”
“I wouldn’t say it was
altogether my idea.” He twisted
one end of his moustache
around his finger, and gave one
of his rare smiles. “But if you’re
not serious it’s time you heard
that half the women in the
district are saying you are.”
“Why the hell can’t they keep
their noses out of my affairs?”
I was feeling annoyed with him
and with myself. “Haven’t they
got anything better to talk
about?”
“No. They like a bit of
scandal. Most women do. But
mind you, Bob, there wouldn’t
be so much harm in it if the
girl’s mother wasn’t at the
bottom of it. A very determined
woman, Mrs. Greer.”
Looking as uncomfortable as I
felt, he went into the dining-
room and began sharpening the
carving-knife.
Neither Carson nor I men-
tioned the subject again, but my
Saturday-afternoon visits to
Dilargo ceased. I had no inten-
tion of marrying Carla Greer or
any other girl. For one thing, I
had no money, and, for another,
I had not the slightest desire to
get married.
As it turned out it was easy
for me to keep away from
Dilargo. Carson sold five-
hundred cows, mostly with
calves at foot, and mustering
them, drafting them on the
camps and handing them over to
the drovers kept us busy at the
work we all liked best. And on
Sundays we trained horses.
Mrs. Carson had consulted me
about the problem of raising
funds to erect a C.W.A. building
in Dilargo. One of the members
had suggested a rodeo with
camp-drafting, buckjumping and
other horse-sports, with the
inevitable dance to follow. What
did I think of the idea? Would
our stockmen support it?
I thought it an excellent idea,
and promised her our full sup-
port. The pick of the Yakaparni
horses would take a lot of beat-
ing, and though I expected Car-
son to make a fuss about using
them for sport I felt confident
that, between us, Mrs. Carson
and I would easily sway him.
“What the hefl will you sug-
gest next?” he roared when I
suggested entering a team of
horses. “Anyone’d think we
didn’t have enough bloody work
for the horses, the way you go
on. Knock hell out of ’em at a
blasted sports-meeting, and then
expect them to be fit for a
muster. I dunno. I dunno
where you get these stupid
bloody ideas, Bob. Damned if
I do. If other places like to
knock their horses about at a
rodeo, or whatever fancy name
you call it, that’s their business.
But I’m not having anything to
do with it. Not a damned
thing.”
“Mrs. Carson is president,” I
reminded him. “We can’t let her
down and have every other
station in the district shaming
her.”
“I don’t see where that’s got
anything to do with it,” he
declared, and walked away.
Mrs. Carson and I laughed
over it when he was out of hear-
ing. “Don’t worry about him,
Bob,” she said; “he’ll come
round.”
He came round to an extent
that surprised us all, for when
the programmes came out we
saw that lirst-prize for the camp-
drafting event was a bridle and
five-pounds, donated by Mr.
A. J. Carson. And not only was
he there to congratulate the
winner, but he thoroughly
enjoyed the day.
So also did Mr. Forster, who
came up on what he described as
a banker’s holiday.
nrHE Dilargo sportsground
A was situated on a rise about
half-a-mile from the township. A
few pepperinas had been planted
for shade, and ironbarks and
bloodwoods had been left stand-
ing around the cleared ring.
A small covered grandstand,
incapable of holding half the
onlookers, stood on one side of
the grounds, and on the opposite
side were the yards for the cattle
and crushes for the buckjumpers.
Curly Ryan had erected a
temporary booth on one side of
the grandstand and the C.W.A.
a refreshment-stall on the other.
Curly’s establishment con-
sisted of a roof of green boughs
on a light framework supported
by six forked ironbark saplings.
The bar was made of planks laid
on packing-cases and empty
kegs, and the glasses were
washed by dipping them into a
tub, which by sundown must
have contained as much stale
beer as water. The whole struc-
ture was strategically sited so
that customers could stand with
their backs to the bar and watch
the ring-events.
The C.W.A. stall was a little
more pretentious, but built on
the same general lines.
On the western side of the
grounds scores of cars were
parked, with their headlights
almost touching the low railing
surrounding the ring, each car
acting as a comfortable grand-
stand for the owner’s family.
From financial, sporting and
social points of view the rodeo
and the dance which followed
eclipsed anything Dilargo had
ever seen. Station-owners and
their families came in cars,
Stockmen came on horseback,
driving packhorses and the
horses they had entered for the
various events, and a number of
people from the neighboring
townships came by train. Every
man, woman, child and dog in
Dilargo was there.
TJEER flowed from Curly’s
kegs in a steady stream —
enough of it, Wonga estimated,
to run a dry sandy gully a
banker.
Most of it went down the
throats of competitors and
spectators, but a great deal was
spilled every time a fight started,
which, as the day progressed,,
was fairly frequently.
According to Curly, it
averaged-out at two fights to
each ring-event, with the number
of dog-fights about the same.
Towards the end of the pro-
gramme Sergeant Dillon retired
to the shade of a tree as far away
from the publican’s booth as
possible. .Plainly he was think-
ing that the sooner the stock-
men from the various stations
battered each other unconscious
the better. He still had the dance
to contend with.
Carson and his bank-manager,
their ulcers temporarily laid
aside, wandered around together
like lifelong friends. In that
robustly convivial atmosphere
Forster proved a good mixer and
a good listener. He wanted to
meet everyone and hear every,
man’s opinion. I felt that in one
day he was learning more about
the district and its cattlemen than
I had learned in six months.
Once, when Carson was talking
to a neighbor, he asked me how
I was liking the job.
“Good,” I told him. “Couldn’t
be better.”
“I hear you’re getting the
cattle under control,” he said.
“Even got Carson eating out of
your hand.”
“Stockmen’s gos s i p,” I
laughed. “Don’t you believe it,
Mr. Forster. How’s your ulcer
standing up to all this?”
“Shssh!” He placed a fore-
finger on his lips. “I’ve given it
a holiday for the day. Sort of
armed truce. How’s your private
war against bank-managers?”
“Looks like I’ll have to sur-
render with apologies,” I told
him.
“We’ll put a seal to that,” he
declared. “Hi, Carson! I’m
just going to buy your overseer
a beer. Bring your friend along
and join us.”
Carson said he had already
had one beer, but he gave in
easily and joined us. I drank
mine quickly and made my
excuses. The bell was ringing for
the camp-draft, the only event I
had entered for.
My four stockmen had put
their names down for every event
on the programme, but for
Wonga it was a sheer waste of
money. He spent most of the
day within easy range of the
beer-kegs, and though he did
lead his horse out for the melon-
race he dropped his melon
before the starter had the com-
petitors lined-up.
Looking at the burst piemelon,
Wonga shook his head sadly.
“If a man can’t hold the
bloody thing in two hands,” he
reasoned, “he’d be a bit uphill
gettin’ on a ’orse and gallopin’
bareback with it tucked under
one arm. I’ll go back and see
’ow Curly’s doin’.”
Mick might have won the flag-
race had he not picked an argu-
ment with the head-stockman
from one of the stations over the
range a few minutes before the
race started. The head-stockman
handicapped him by completely
closing his left eye with the first
hit, so that Mick lost the fight
and failed to get a place.
However, Duffy upheld the
honor of Yakapami by romping
home an easy winner. I won the
camp-draft, much to Carson’s
delight. He celebrated the win
by having another beer, his third
for the day, and thereafter he
never stopped talking.
'T'HE most popular event was
the buckjumping. It pro-
vided a succession of thrills and
some glorious spills. It induced
some outrageous boasting and
caused several fights.
In spite of his bunged-up eye
Mick insisted on riding. He’d
show some of these blokes from
over the range a thing or two,
he declared. He’d win the
buckjumping first, and clean the
bloody head-stockman up after.
He did both, the first because
he was by far the best rough-
rider in the district, and the
second because the head-stock-
man had spent the intervening
time celebrating his easy win at
Curly’s bar.
But by far the most spectacu-
lar performance of the day was
put-up by a wiry little full-
blooded aboriginal named
Munga, a horseman with a big
following of keen supporters.
Munga’s mount, a big fiddle-
headed bay, came out of the
crush with the speed of a charg-
ing scrub bull, maintaining his
speed with a series of flying
bucks that had Munga’s head
snapping helplessly to and fro.
The crowd was yelling, “Stick
to ’im, Munga! Stay with ’im,
Munga! You got ’im, Munga!”
That last statement was a piece
of supreme optimism. Munga
had no control over his mount
whatsoever, and was only staying
with it because he was too
frightened to leave it.
Half-bucking, half-bolting, the
fiddle-headed bay careered
across the ring, brushed the rail-
ing aside and crashed into
Curly’s bar, bringing the whole
flimsy structure down in a
tangle of green branches,
smashed planks, packing-cases
. and glasses.
There must have been thirty or
forty men in and around the
bar when the smash occurred,
yet no one was hurt. Even
Munga, who had removed most
of the roofing with his head and
shoulders, struggled from under
a pile of greenery grinning and
rubbing his head.
“By crikey,” he said, staring
at the havoc he had wrought,
“that one he altogether too
thirsty!”
Like Neptune arising from the
sea, Curly also emerged from the
fallep branches.
“Gawd starve the flamin’
lizards,” he roared, brushing the
leaves from his shirt, “wasn’t
you ever taught to knock before
y’ come in?”
He kicked his way through the
wreckage to the beer-keg that a
Score of willing hands were
already setting back on its stand,
filled a glass only slightly
chipped around the rim, and
handed it to Munga.
“Get that inter y’,” he ordered,
“and then clear out before the
Sergeant comes. And next time
don’t bring y’r bloody ’orse in
with y\”
Munga gulped his beer
hurriedly and left. Though
reduced to a roofless pile of
wreckage, this was licensed
premises, and, as such, the law
placed it out of bounds to him.
But for the rest of his life he
could boast about the day he
rode a horse into a public bar
and was served with free grog by
the publican.
Few white men could claim
that honor.
/'"'URLY’S beer got warmer as
the day progressed, but still
we drank it. As usual, I had
teamed-up with the Stewart
brothers, and as the winner of
a five-pound purse I was more-
or-less setting the pace. x
I spoke to Carla once during
the afternoon. Looking quite
attractive in a light summer
frock and a large floppy hat, she
stopped to congratulate me on
my win.
“You’re quite a stranger these
days,” she remarked. “Where
have you been?”
“Sticking to the bush,” I told
her lightly. “I’ve given up the
bright lights.”
“Fancy!” She looked faintly
WAITING: AUTUMN
TASMANIA.
We touch each other through our clothes
and just this touching, feeling, heals,
coheres, and giving, touching makes
our bodies ring and chime like steeples.
All is giving, trusting, taking.
Caught inside this shabby park
the evening’s lake of sunken bells
ripples through the waiting dark,
We’ve only bodies, hands and mouths
to find the rhythms of our love.
The darkness lingers in the trees
and light falls through the falling dove
that falls and doesn’t tear its wings.
And O your mouth, your eyes, your hair.
It’s nearly dark. The leaves are cold.
I’m waiting for you. Waiting here.
VIVIAN SMITH.


mocking. “Coming to the dance
tonight?”
“No,” I said. “I’ve given that
up too.”
“Not really!” Her eyebrows
went up in assumed astonish-
ment. “You’ll be telling me next
you’ve given up the booze!”
From behind me Reg Stewart’s
voice cut in: “Hey, Carla,
don’t get trying to put such
terrible ideas into the man’s
head. We’ve got the best part
of his fiver to chop-out before
he starts thinking of reforming.”
She laughed and walked on,
and Reg said,. “Were you fair
dinkum about not staying for
the dance tonight?”
“I’m staying in,” I told him,
“but I’m not dancing.”
“Well, well, well!” He
hitched-up his trousers and
grinned in anticipation. “Let’s
go and drag Jack away from the
women. It looks like a wet night
tonight.”
MR. AND MRS. CARSON
drove home before sun-
down, and I stayed in with no
fixed plans other than a promise
to have dinner at the hotel with
the Stewarts.
Duffy had offered to look after
my horse for me, and 1 could
ride home whenever 1 felt like
it. On only one point was 1
decided. I would not attend the
dance.
I changed into the clothes
Carson had left at the hotel for
me, only because everyone else
was changing for dinner, and
we joined the crowd in the bar.
We had drinks before dinner
and drinks after dinner, but at
nine-o’clock Curly called a halt.
“A fair go’s a fair go,” he
declared. “And youse ’ave ’ad
it. I’m gettin’ the weight off me
feet and shuttin’-up.”
We bought-up enough supplies
for the rest of the evening, and
I only offered a token resistance
when Jack suggested we put it in
Greer’s washtubs and see how
the dance was going.
It was going well, and since
our party by then consisted of
six—six highly exuberant young
men—we flattered ourselves it
improved greatly with our
arrival. I danced with a number
of girls and, forgetting all
caution, had a number of dances
with Carla.
It was long after sunrise when
I awoke. I was in the spare room
under Greer’s house, and I was
wearing a pair of Dr. Greer’s
pyjamas. Standing alongside the
dressing-table was a pair of
pale-pink slippers trimmed with
pink feathers. I was contemplat-
ing the slippers when Carla
appeared in the doorway, bare
feet showing under her long
dressing-gown.
“Well,” she sai4 “how’s the
man who’s given up every-
thing?”
“Remarkably well considering
everything,” I told her. “Come
here.”
She smiled and shook her
head. “Not me. I only came
down to remove the evidence.”
She walked to the dressing-table
and stepped into the slippers.
“Would you like a cup of tea?”
I grinned and said, “There’s
only one thing I’d like better.”
“You’ll have the tea,” she
announced, and slipped out.
CHAPTER XIX
A WEEK later we thankfully
laid our pear-stabbers aside
and ran-in a team of mustering-
horses.
The ticks were showing-up on
ths cattle, and in spite of the
dry season they kept us busy for
most of the year. We no sooner
completed a muster when it was
time to start again.
The cattle were strong when
we started, and the cows with
calves objected strenuously to
the dogs. They knocked them-
selves and their calves about by
chasing them. Their enraged
bellowings would often upset the
entire mob, turning it about-face
as the leaders came charging
back to protect the calves in
the tail from this new menace.
Thank Heaven Carson was not
with us, for he would have bel-
lowed louder than the lustiest of
his cows, and would probably
have joined them in pursuit of
the dogs. He certainly would
not have had the patience to put
up with the temporary incon-
venience, nor would he have
restrained himself at the sight of
Sneezer slashing a few too-
tempting noses.
But the cattle quickly got
used to the dogs, and even the
most determined old cows soon
realised that only by behaving
themselves and staying with the
mob could they be safe from
those snapping teeth. Break-
aways at yarding-up times were
reduced to a point where Mick
complained that a man could no
longer get a gallop out of them,
and young calves ceased to be
a constant headache to us.
There are few hard-and-fast
rules in stock-work. “Never
chase a calf,” could be reckoned
as one of the first and most
sensible. Yet the temptation to
break it is often great, especially
when a youngster only a few
weeks old defies you by shooting
out under your horse’s nose and
racing off with tail held mock-
ingly erect.
Your natural and immediate
reaction is, “I’ll teach you man-
ners, me lad!” If you are a
newchum at the game, you try,
and the first thing you discover
is that this insolent baby is fast.
He can match his mother for
speed and outdo her in
obstinacy.
Galloping wide of him will
not induce him to turn, so, being
a newchum, you close with him.
And within seconds you make
your second, and final, discovery.
With his short legs ! and short
body this miniature lump of beef
is highly manoeuvrable. He
dives under your horse’s neck,
and down you come in a tangle
of horse, calf and man. And a
fall over a calf is usually severe ;
the calf, for some odd reason,
being the only one to escape
without injury.
To the newchum it seems that
a calf enjoys an unfair immunity,
for though the dogs are allowed
to chase one they must learn not
to bite it. The reasons for all
this soon become obvious. If
no one does anything about the
fleeing calf it usually returns of
its own accord. Loneliness and
a feeling of insecurity will bring
it back to the mob. The very
sight of a dog will hasten its
return. But if a headstrong dog
bites it its frantic bawl of pain
will cause every mother to leave
the mob and charge to the
rescue.
I'ANCE the cattle became thor-
oughly broken-in to the
dogs, Boozer proved both a
treasure and a curse with calves.
On the long, hot drives to the
yards the tired calves dropped
to the tail where everyone but
Boozer ignored them. It was
a common sight to see him com-
ing quietly along behind the
main mob with a dozen or more
baby calves.
His patience and tolerance were
astounding. If a calf stopped
he nudged it gently with his
nose until it started again. There
were times when we had to wait
minutes for a calf to move,
infuriating minutes during which
the mob drew further and fur-
ther away and he stood there,
ears pricked alertly and pink
tongue lolling out, waiting with
that astounding patience for the
calf to trot up and join its mates.
It was an act that fascinated
us all. It was, we felt, unbeliev-
able that any dog—particularly
one with such a streak of larri-
kinism as Boozer undoubtedly
possessed—could be so endlessly
tolerant.
Unfortunately it was mislead-
ing ; Boozer’s tolerance was not
endless. It might last for two
miles, it ijiight last for three, but
its ending was as inevitable as it
was calamitous.
Abandoning all pretence, this
model of all the virtues would
suddenly reveal himself as a
headstrong villain by grabbing a
calf by the hind leg and hanging
on with the grim tenacity of a
bulldog,
The result was pandemonium
—the frenzied bawling of the
calf, the angry bellowing of
scores of cows dashing back to
the rescue, and a complete
about-face of the mob. Not
until he was in danger of being
trampled to death would Boozer
let the calf go, and when I dis-
mounted to punish him he rarely
looked ashamed. Usually his
leering expression said, “Oh,
well, it was good fun while it
lasted! ”
It was a habit I was never
able to cure him of, and towards
the end of the year, when many
of the old cows were so weak
that a sudden turn would cause
them to fall down, I had to keep
him at my horse’s heels and for-
bid him to go near the straggling
calves.
We mustered all through the
winter that year handicapped by
the short days and the need to
get each mob out of the yards
as quickly as possible, but helped
greatly by the dogs and the
arrival of Tommy.
'TOMMY came to us on Curly
Ryan’s recommendation, but
I was even more doubtful about
putting him on than I had been
about Duffy.
He looked younger than his
thirteen years; he looked
delicate, and he looked as if he
had never been properly fed.
He had the smallest swag I
have ever seen —what Wonga
described as a cigarette-swag—
and the only thing about him
that appealed to me was his
pathetic eagerness.
He wanted to be a stockman,
wanted to be a gun scrub-rider
and a gun buckjump-rider. He
wanted to live in mustering-
camps, to sleep beside campfires
and join in the evening yarns.
He could think of nothing more
wonderful.
Because of his keenness I
decided to try him, though Car-
son declared that half our time
would be spent in searching for
him when he got bushed.
“Give ’im a go,” Curly had
said. “His mother’s got six
others to look after, and not
much in the way of money. The
father used to be a drover. Got
killed when a mob rushed one
night. They live down the line
a bit, and this kid ’as been ridin’
a pony to school, so ’e ought to
be a bit of use to y\”
Tommy was, to use Wonga’s
expression, knee-high to a sand-
goanna. His hair was almost
white in its fairness, his eyes
were startlingly blue against his
rather sallow skin, and his nose
was a short, squat affair, with
no hint of definite shape. He was
painfully thin and outwardly
ill-equipped for the rough, hard
life of a mustering-camp. -
He came to us dressed in a
thin cotton shirt, cotton trousers
and an ancient felt-hat that
rested on a pair of enormous
ears. His shirt, trousers and
elastic-side boots were all new,
but of poor quality. His swag
consisted of one threadbare
blanket and a patchwork quilt,
folded inside the quilt were a
spare shirt and a towel. There
was nothing else —not even a
singlet or pair of socks.
But inside Tommy there were
boundless enthusiasm and a
grim determination to become
as proficient and reckless a horse-
man as Mick. Right from his
first day he was useful. As the
youngest member of the team he
became horseboy, a simple
enough job, though an unenvi-
able one on a cold winter morn-
ing, when he had to be first out
of bed to walk through grass wet
with dew or frost to catch the
night horse or, if we were
camped out, run the horses in on
foot.
Everyone else growled at the
job. Tommy regarded it as an
honor. He was that sort of boy.
He lit the fires, filled the quart-
pots and boiled them for the
dinner camps, leaving us all free
to go off and scour fresh country,
and he was a welcome extra-
hand to keep the tail going on
the drives to the yards. We had
to get in quiet old horses for
him, but we had plenty of them.
I think he was more than a
little scared the first time I left
him to hold a mob of cattle,
though he did his best to hide his
feelings. The camp was at the
junction of two creeks, a
sheltered hollow where big blue-
gums lined the bank of a long
waterhole and clumps of
quinine-trees formed welcome
patches of shade for the cattle.
Mick, Tommy and I drove our
cattle down one creek, while
Wonga, Steve and Duffy brought
theirs down the other. At the
junction we halted the combined
mobs and got them settled down.
It was a natural camping-
place, one where the cattle would
rest quietly through the heat of
the day, rarely giving a single
horseman anything to do beyond
turning back one or two feeding
cows.
But to young Tommy the
responsibility of guarding over
five - hundred - head seemed
enormous. Moreover, he was a
little nervous of being left alone
in the bush, miles from any
habitation.
Sensing this, I said, ‘Til leave
the dogs with you, but don’t
start sooling them on. The cattle
will stay quiet if you don’t stir
them up. "All you’ve got to do
is turn in any strays quietly.”
He looked immensely relieved,
mainly, I felt, at the prospect of
having Boozer for company.
They were kindred spirits, those
two; both typical small-boys at
heart.
We returned empty-handed an
hour later, satisfied that that par-
ticular section of the run had
been mustered clean. Tommy
was riding conscientiously
around the mob, and the dogs
were trotting at his horse’s heels.
“Have any trouble, Tommy?”
I asked.
“No, boss,” he answered. “But
there’s been one old cow tryin’
to get away all the time. I ’ad
to put the dogs on ’er once.”
“She’s probably got a baby
calf planted somewhere,” I told
him. “You’ll nearly always find
one or two like that in a mob.”
Wonga glanced over the mob,
most of them standing con-
tentedly in the shade, and glared
at Tommy.
“You’ve lost two,” he said
accusingly. “There was five-
hundred - and - forty - three ’ere
when we left, and now there’s
only five - hundred - and - forty-
one.”
But the kid was equal to him.
“I ain’t lost any,” he declared.
“There’s still five-hundred-and-
forty-three. You count ’em
again.”
TF Tommy suffered during the
A winter camps he never once
complained. I gave him one of
my blankets, and Steve helped
him sew some bags together for
ah extra covering, but fie was still
miserably clad. Instead of buy-
ing himself a warm shirt or a
jumper when he drew his first
small cheque he sent away for a
pair of enormous shiny spurs.
We dragged logs together and
built roaring campfires on those
winter nights, so that for the
first couple of hours we roasted,
and then gradually got colder
and colder until someone got up
and restoked the fire. Usually
that someone was Tommy.
“Always ’ave a kid that’s short
of nap when you’re camped out
in winter,” Wonga advised.
“The kid’s gotter get up and
stoke the fire to keep ’imself
warm.”
Sneezer scorned the warmth
of fires. He slept curled-up on a
patch of bare ground well away
from the comforting blaze, and
got up in the morning wet with
dew and often with frost on his
thick, blue fur. But Boozer
loved warmth. There was
nothing Spartan in his make-up.
He curled-up near the fire,
usually on the end of my swag,
until we all turned-in. After that
he vanished, and I never dis-
covered his sleeping-place until
I got up to stoke the fire just
before daylight one morning.
I pushed the glowing logs
together and stood for a few
minutes warming myself as the
flames crackled cheerfully. No
use going back to bed. The
morning-star was blinking
through the branches of the trees,
and beneath it I could see the
first cold light of dawn. Time to
get the horses in.
I pushed the bag-covered form
with my foot and said, “Shake
a leg, Tommy! Daylight.”
The coverings were thrown
back, one small boy sat up and
yawned, and one dog sat up and
scratched himself vigorously.
“Good God!” I exclaimed.
“Do you always take tha|t
damned dog to bed with you?”
“Yes,” he admitted, obviously
afraid I would forbid him to do
it again. “We keep each other
warm.”
“You’ll be as lousy with fleas
as he is,” I told him. “Go and
get the horses in.”
He pulled his boots on, thus
completing his dressing for the
day, and walked off into the
darkness.
When he returned, wet to the
knees from the dewy grass, it
was daylight and a white mist
was rising from the lagoon,
softening the outlines of the
gnarled old gums on the far
bank. The billy was boiling,
and we were squatting around
the fire, eating breakfast.
Yet the kid enjoyed himself,
and we enjoyed having him. He
ate enormous meals, and seemed
to grow as we watched him.
Everything was new to him,
everything fascinated him —the
howling of the dingoes and the
eerie wail of the curlews on those
(Continued on next page )
FOSSIL WOOD
Scaly bark and smooth-grained layers fold
Over the satin heart-wood—sculpture teasing
Alighting hand or eye. Mind cannot hold
Weight of two hundred thousand centuries.
Imagination, like a prince, alone
Calls the sleeper from her trance of stone,
Strikes from this flint the green and living flame
To light a catacomb of jealous time.
Find in the forest’s blackened bones, and claim,
Incorrupt, his saint. A flash of rhyme—
The iron, ancient bond unriveted—
Reprieves Eurydice and all the dead.
Again the spears break through the stone of silence;
Where only feral wind and primal flumes
Roared inarticulate, the eloquence
Of lilting firs in their green bravura blooms.
Brief truce! Inexorable ages lock
Rhythm and music’s spring within the rock.
Oh epic fragment, page from creation’s song
Preserved while stars burnt out to preach a stone
Sermon here; your living joy and long
Transubstantiation make no bone
Memento mori, but a Lover’s token
Of life and after-life, the life unbroken.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.


'eM/ob&/*jfcuh6toS
R/Uvufo
m
SS»
A.J.G
a/te dwuiufactuked and
olidifcUnded ty titejf&ctofuai of
HENRY JONES
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
Ififjanuj-acturer& an d Packers of
JAMS • CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES • ASPARAGUS
SOUPS • FRUIT JUICES
EVAPORATED APPLES
CANNED GREEN PEAS
HOPS AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
factories and Pranckes tn ———— —-——
AUSTRALIA . NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA • ENGLAND
J,
aencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Missing Friends
WOULD any children or grandchildren of
the late ALFRED STEPHENS and MAR-
GARET ANNIE STEPHENS (nee JONES),
who formerly lived at Randwick, i«ew
South Wales, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRIM
OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand?
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(.Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
cold winter nights ; the tales of
wild scrub cattle and of drov-
ing ; and, most of all, Wonga’s
outrageous lies. For a longtime
Tommy believed every story
Wonga told. He even accepted
his explanation of the way to get
a plain-turkey without a gun.
We had left him holding a mob
of cattle, and when we returned
he told us excitedly that a plain-
turkey had been walking about
near the cattle for half-an-hour
or more.
With well-assumed anger,
Wonga said, “Why the bloody
’ell didn’t you get ’im? You
know we’re gettin’ short of meat
in camp.”
“But I didn’t ’ave no gun,”
Tommy protested.
“Gun!” Wonga scoffed. “Y’
don’t need a gun for them
things.”
He shook his head sadly at
such ignorance.
“I got off to chuck a stick at
’im,” Tommy defended. “But ’e
flew away.”
“Y’ don’t need no stick,
either.” Wonga managed to
convey the impression that he
was patiently explaining some-
thing elementary, something any
kid ought to know. “Did y’
notice ’ow that turkey watched
y’ when y’ rode past? Didn’t
move ’is feet, did ’e? Just kept
turnin’ ’is ’ead so’s he could keep
one eye on y’?”
“Yes,” Tommy admitted, “I
did notice that,
“Well, that’s the secret of it.
Y ride past the turkey swingin
round ’im in a circle; ’e keeps
turnin’ ’is ’ead and you keep on
goin’, round and round, gettin’
faster and faster till ’e wrings ’is
° wn ? eck - you B ot . j- 0 , do
then 1S nde <> ver and pick im
U P- ,
We rode oft to start the cattle
U P> and 1 said > W°f + f a ’ lf
kid * oses a m °b cattle through
tr y in S out y° ur blasted turkey-
method I’ll have a large
P d down , boss,” he
amwered gotter learn »
I let it go at that, though it
struck me tbat jf the kid stayed
j n Wonga’s company he would
[ earn some amazing things,
CHAPTER XX
for a few light
-t- / showers, the winter remained
dry. Carson talked hopefully
of early storms, but spring
dragged into summer without the
sign of a thunderstorm,
The smaller waterholes dried-
up, forcing the cattle to crowd
in to the bores and the few per-
manent holes. The grass was
parched and brown, ready to
flare into an uncontrollable blaze
at the first carelessly dropped
match.
Daily the cattle grew weaker,
and by early November the older
cows, particularly the ones
suckling calves, were gaunt
walking-skeletons,
And still the ticks persisted,
swarming in bloated clusters on
the cattle, sucking blood from
feeble, tottering old caricatures
of cows that seemed already
devoid of blood. Mustering and
driving those poor creatures to
the yards put an almost unbear-
able strain on them, but leaving
them to the mercy of the blood-
sucking ticks condemned them
to certain death.
No longer did we have to
contend with cattle breaking as
we yarded-up; the dogs had
cured them of that, but in any
case they were gradually becom-
ing too weak to do anything but
walk. We handled them like the
frail things they were, inducing
them to string-out, coaxing the
leaders into the yards while the
tailenders straggled along far
behind.
The entire district was drought-
stricken, and the old hands,
Carson included, were forecast-
ing one of the biggest smashes
in cattle-history. Two things
stood in our favor. We had sold
five-hundred cows and we got
rid of the bullocks early.
Rustin, the cattle-buyer, came
up, inspected the bullocks and
took a sporting chance.
“I’ll take ’em,” he decided.
“Rake says there’s enough feed
and water on the stock-route to
get them down safely, but I think
they’ll do a bit of a perish for
the first few days.” He looked
the mob over again, and said,
“They’re in remarkably good
condition. If your breeders are
anything like this you shouldn’t
have any worries.”
“They’re not,” I told him.
“They’ll be dying if we don’t
get rain before the end of the
month. The bullock-paddock is
nearly all ringbarked and there’s
still a bit of nourishment in the
grass, but out-bush it’s so dry the
cattle might as well be eating
sticks.”
As soon as we got the bullocks
away we mustered five-hundred
of the weakest cows and calves
and put them in the bullock-
paddock. It was heartbreaking
work riding along behind these
tottering old wrecks, watching
them sway in the hindquarters
from weakness while hungry
calves nudged at sagging, empty
udders, desperately searching for
the life-giving milk that refused
to flow. Dull, shaggy hides hung
loosely over bones that stood out
in revealing detail, and one
marvelled that there was life
underneath.
It was amazing that cattle in
such condition could even walk.
Yet, given time, they could, and
did, travel miles every day in
this hopeless search for
nourishment.
Time. That was what they
needed, and what we gave them.
If they stopped we stopped and
waited for them to move on
again. If an old cow stumbled
over a branch and fell we lifted
her up, steadied her on her feet
and slipped away to get behind
the nearest tree.
Weak and tottering though the
cow was she could still summon
enough energy to charge, and
we feared that charge, not
because we might get hurt, but
because it invariably meant we
would have to pick the old girl
up again. With a rage out of all
proportion to her feeble
strength she would whirl round,
lunge fiercely at her helpers and
crash to her knees again.
We helped the weaker ones
into the dip, and we helped them
out again. We stood them on
their feet when they slipped and
fell on the wet floor of the
draining-yard, and we watched
them anxiously as they swayed
drunkenly off to join their mates.
Sometimes an old cow adopted
the line of passive-resistance and
refused to stand up, despite our
united efforts and abuse. When
that happened we hauled her to
one side and left her. What else
could we do? If she had the
will to live she struggled to her
feet unaided during the night
and tottered off; if not, she
died, and we had to drag her
emaciated old carcass out of the
yard, pile wood on it and burn
it-
TYECEMBER came, and the
, smell of death lay every-
where. On the still, hot nights
in the mustering-camp we went
to sleep with the stench of half-
burned carcasses in our nostrils,
alongside the watering-places lay
the swollen remains of the cattle
we had dragged out of the mud
left by the receding water, and
beside every dusty cattle-pad lay
the bones and stiff, dry hide of
what had once been a fine
Hereford cow.
The trees withered and lost
their leaves, so that there was no
shade for the cattle or for us,
no protection from the merciless
glare of the midday sun. Each
night the sun set in a dull red
disk, and we spread our swags
out on the hot ground and
sweltered until the pre-dawn chill
forced us to drag a blanket up
and await another scorching day,
as dispirited and weary as our
overworked horses.
The nightly campfires were
miserable little glows, carefully
guarded, and extinguished as
soon as the meal was cooked, lest
a gust of wind carry off a spark
and set the surrounding country
ablaze. And without that vital
central-point there was no music
and no yarn-spinning.
The one green haven in all that
parched and shadeless wilderness
was the garden at the homestead.
Sitting on the veranda at night
one could listen to the soft clank-
ing of the windmill pumping
water up from the creek, inhale
the living smell of greenery and
damp earth, and forget for a
while the sickly smell of death.
There were nights when low
banks of clouds appeared far off
in the south and lightning
flickered in and out of the distant
thunder heads. Once or twice we
even heard the faint rumble of
thunder.
Filled with hope then, we sat
up far into the night, talking
little, but watching each flicker
of light, listening eagerly for the
next low growl of thunder, striv-
ing by sheer concentration to
will the storm to build-up and
empty its precious rain on our
parched country.
Only when the last feeble
flicker sank back into the dark
obscurity behind the range did
we abandon hope and go off to
bed, not to sleep soundly, but
to toss restlessly, hating the
thought of tomorrow.
Tomorrow the sun would
blaze down on our dusty wilder-
ness ; tomorrow a few more cows
would die; and tomorrow we
would ride out through a shade-
less forest to move a collection
of walking-skeletons from the
Pink Lily Lagoon to Number-
two bore, i
Last year the Pink Lily
Lagoon had been a lovely sheet
of water nearly half-a-mile long,
quarter-mile across, and dotted
with pink waterlilies. Now it
was a small circle of stagnant
water in the centre of an expanse
of cracked near-dry mud, dotted
here and there with rotting
carcasses. And from each carcass
a goanna waddled awkwardly,
dark tongue darting in and out
in defiance at our approach—a
bloated, truculent reptile, gorged
to repletion on the foul-smelling
death that lay all around him,
too indolent even to scuttle for
the protection of the nearest
tree.
When the lagoon first became
a dangerous bog we had fenced
it in and moved the cattle to
Number-two bore. We moved
them every day for a week, and
each time they returned, some
to stand bellowing hopelessly
outside the fence, others to break
through the wires and bog on
the edge of the thick, evil-
smelling water.
The grim tenacity of purpose
in some of those old cows was
both amazing and infuriating.
It seemed as if they preferred
to die in the remains of their
favorite waterhole rather than
drink clean water from an
unfamiliar trough.
The most outstanding of all
these pertinacious old battlers
was Bike-handle Bertha, named
by Wonga because her horns
curled up and back like bicycle-
handles. Six times in six days we
pulled Bike-handle Bertha out
of the bog, stood her up and
watched her totter unsteadily
away.
Her rescue became a feature of
the day’s work, and we would
have been disappointed at not
finding her sitting in the mud,
patiently awaiting our arrival.
And what a haggard old baggage
she was, with mud caked all over
her sagging hide!
Yet we grew quite fond of her,
for it was impossible not to
admire her fighting-spirit and the
endless patience with which she
awaited her daily rescue. She
never struggled as we
approached, never charged when
we got her free and on her feet,
simply swayed unsteadily for a
moment or two and then tottered
feebly away. I
We cursed her good-naturedly
for the work she gave us, but
always we stood grinning while
Wonga escorted her to the
break in the fence, guided her
stumbling feet over the wire,
patted the sagging hollow that
should have been her rump, and
said, “Now, no mbre, Bertha.
You’ve ’ad a fair go. The next
time y’ get stuck in the mud we’ll
bloody well leave y’ there to
rot.”
The cattle-pads were inches
deep in grey dust; dust coated
the dry grass and clung to the
withered leaves of the trees. It
drifted high in the air to mingle
with the smoke of distant bush-
fires, blurring the outlines of the
sun, but never softening its
pitiless heat, an arid heat that
seemed to dry the very marrow
in our bones.
We drank the sweetish,
unsatisfying water from the
bores, we drank muddy water
stirred to a souplike consistency
by the hooves of cattle, and we
drank water turned clear by the
lime in the bones of dead ones.
We boiled our quartpots and
made tea that turned purple as
it cooled. And none of it
quenched our insatiable thirsts.
OVER the range a big fire
was raging, and, though
Carson expressed his belief that
it would burn itself out on the
range, we all felt that it would
only be a matter of days before
we were fighting it.
We were in at the homestead
when it crossed the range, and
that night we sat on the veranda
and watched the bright glow
spreading across the sky.
Beneath the glow we could see
the small pinpoints of red,
positive proof that the fire was
burning on Yakaparni.
{To be continued next week)


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Y
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established. 18'OH in Reign of
George HI .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
{England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
g Spring Street, Sydney#
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE COW
By RAY MATHEW
<</-p|HEN we’re all agreed,”
I said Vera in a very
1 final way. “Happiness,
as they call it, does
not, will not and never did
exist.”
“Ecstasy,” suggested Eric, but
very tentatively. “Intense
pleasure.”
“Confusion of terms!” Vera
was adamant. “Happiness,”
she insisted, “an illusion. So
what?”
There was no answer; no
answer seemed possible. Eric
looked round the club. He
could see Sheila sitting at a
table by herself reading and
making notes. He could hear
Peter and Bronwyn arguing in
the cubicle next to theirs. He
glanced rather shyly at Alec and
Sylvia holding hands and say-
ing nothing. He watched a
stranger ordering a meal.
“If you sat here long enough,”
he said fondly, “everyone in
Sydney would pass you by.”
“Pass us by is right,” said
Dennis bitterly. He was sitting
beside Vera and had some cause
for bitterness. Besides, he was
going through a sardonic stage
and nobody had noticed it.
Eric laughed at him. “It’s
the only coffee-shop in Sydney,”
he said. “And it’s really ours.
We sit here, we meet here, we
vyark here. And all for the price
of a cup of coffee. I wonder
what the owners think?”
“Well, we’re not actually
troublesome,” said Vera. “And
we must have a certain tourist-
value.”
“Tony wrote all of his novel
here,” said Eric.
“It’s no good,” said Dennis.
“Oh I didn’t think it would
be! But a whole novel . . .”
Eric sounded wistful; his
literary ambitions were (for the
moment) confined to a thesis on
“D. H. Lawrence and the
Academic Misconception with
Particular Reference to Lady
Chatterley’s Lover.’’ He was
not happy.
“I’m sure your novel, when
you get down to it, will be
excellent.” Vera was feeling
kind.
Eric felt cheered, although
she was only a Science-student.
He looked round the club again
and imagined his novel. He
smiled at everyone affection-
ately. It was then that he saw
Lillian. His face changed.
Vera’s eyes followed his, and
her face changed too. With her
affectation of untidy hair, shape-
less clothes and direct speaking
she was the more-or-less
acknowledged queen of the
coffee-shop crew, and Lillian,
who now stood at the top of the
stairs making an entrance, was
the one who acknowledged her
least.
Lillian had dropped the uni-
versity and forced her way into
a newspaper. She affected per-
fect poise and Rome fashions.
Even now as she stood and
surveyed the room she was tug-
ging in a fashionable way at a
fashionable white glove. From
the way she was removing it
and the way she was smiling, it
was obvious she had something
to say. And at the club there
was always the someone to say
the something to.
Vera, Eric and Dennis pre-
pared themselves for the attack.
She came and sat by them.
She removed her other white
glove.
“Coffee, please,” she said to
the waitress. “The Cow,” she
said to the others in a voice
meant to carry. They allowed
themselves to look more
interested; it was only the Cow
she was down-on. “The Cow,”
she repeated, “is with calf.”
IN the general astonishment
Dennis dropped his coffee-
spoon and splashed a white
glove.
“You are a clumsy fool,” said
Lillian in her most charming
murmur. It was obvious she.
thought it deliberate.
“Utter clot!” said Vera, who
hoped so.
' “Throwing gloves all over the
table,” said Dennis. “Dis-
gusting habit! ”
“The Cow,” said Eric.
“With calf,” smiled Lillian.
“I’ve never liked that name for
her,” said Vera. “And ‘with
calf’ is hardly in good taste.”
“But suitable,’.’ murmured
Lillian. Which was true enough.
Everyone called her the Cow,
the whole club. And the whole
c l u b — an( i the few innocents
who happened to be there to
eat —was listening now.
“Well, I don’t like it,” said
Vera, “and I don’t mind say-
ing so.”
“Always so frank and manly,”
Lillian laughed. “Science, I
suppose.”
“And in any case I think it
quite marvellous,” continued
Vera. “After all”—she glanced
accusingly at Lillian —“every-
one in the club is supposed to
be having wonderful affairs and
trembling on the brink of dis-
aster but no one —no one’s been
game to go the whole hog.”
“Chloe!” said Dennis sud-
denly. “That’s the Cow’s name.”
Vera looked at him gratefully.
“Chloe,” she said.
“Impossible,” said Eric.
“In any case,” said Vera
bravely, “I intend to stand by
her, and I think anyone decent
would.”
“That’s what I came to see
you about,” said Lillian
smoothly. “Standing-by.”
“Who’s the father?” asked
Eric.
“Well, I believe . . .” began
Lillian, drawling in her most
social - voice. Then she
brightened. “You can ask her
yourself,” she said.
The Cow was approaching.
“Something she doesn’t
know,” muttered Dennis, but
no one was listening. Everyone
was watching the Cow; Chloe
was an impossible name for her.
For one thing, she was as big
as a cow. And then she walked
like a cow. And she glowed with
health, like a farmyard. She
was very depressing.
NO one knew why she was
going to university or any-
thing about her. She did the
work, she dropped into the
club, she turned up at club-
parties. She was accepted like
that and she had become an
adjective. One talked of cowish
behavior.
“Move up and let me squeeze
in,” she said.
Cowish talk, but Vera and
Dennis moved. It was a tight
squeeze, but they were too busy
looking at her to mind. She
looked no different, though;
she was always disappointing.
“Lillian has just told us, ’
began Vera.
“I thought she would.” The
Cow sounded tired, disinterested.
“So I needn’t.”
“Wonderful news,” said Vera.
“The making of you. I could
make some tests, just blood and
pulse-rates”
“Is it?” said the Cow. “I
suppose it is. It only seems
natural.” ,
“What will you do?” asked
Eric.
“Mum and Dad have thrown
me,” said the Cow. “He’s a
minister.”
“Who’s the father?”
“I forget.” The Cow looked
sullen. “I don’t care. I wanted
to, didn’t I? It’s me that’s to
blame. I wanted to, didn’t I?”
“I suppose you did, dear,”
suggested Lillian, rather nastily.
Eric looked at her with dis-
gust and thought about his thesis
on Lawrence. This sort of thing
was beyond Lillian’s compre-
hension.
“Of course she did!” he said.
“Thank Heaven, thank Some-
thing, for someone with some
honesty of soul! I’m sick
sick and tired of hypocritical
little lechers with sordid little
souls. Can’t you understand?
No, you can’t understand a real
passion and a real pleasure in its
consequences. Even,” he added,
noticing the Cow again, “in its
degradations.”
“Mum and Dad have thrown
me out,” remarked the Cow,
unimpressed.
“Come to my place,” said
Vera, inspired.
“Your mother ...” murmured
Lillian. She knew that her
mother’s respectability was
Vera’s shame.
“Everything can be arranged,”
said Vera. “There’s no need to
go into details now.”
BUT there was. And the Cow
did. She stayed only a
few days at Vera’s and then
she went to a hospital where
they gave her a job and a room
and looked after her appro-
priately. She became more and
more cowlike.
But by that time she was the
rage. The whole club recognised
her as someone who had (ignor-
antly no doubt but still
definitely) defied society and
become worthy of honor. Dennis
began to paint her portrait, but
he couldn’t keep up with her
and gave it up. Eric started get-
ting up early on Fridays and
going to the markets for fruit.
“For the Cow,” he explained.
Vera gave her a series of
tests and wrote her up as “Case
A,” and Lillian, swimming as
triumphantly with the tide as
she could, offered to read to
her. Visits were organised to
keep her cheerful, and she was
taken on outings.
She submitted to everything.
Only about the university was
she firm. Vera had decided that
she must pass, that she must
show them, and had borrowed
lecture-notes for her. But
neither Vera nor Lillian could
persuade her to use them. “I
just don’t seem interested,” she
said.
“I don’t wonder,” said
Lillian. But Vera couldn’t
understand it at all. No matter;
she and Lillian, now inseparable,
bosom-enemies, went on work-
ing for the Cow. They
questioned everyone they knew,
Vera sharply and Lillian dis-
creetly, but they found out noth-
ing ; and the Cow just wouldn’t
talk about it. She never once
mentioned a man.
And the baby was born.
“Repulsive little dear,” said
Lillian.
“Perfectly healthy,” declared
Vera.
But this meant that the Cow
had to leave the hospital. She
took the baby with her. Even
the hospital considered this odd,
and the club regarded it as
madness. Nearly everyone
thought children were luckier
in orphanages.
Eric, however, still under the
influence of Lawrence, regarded
the whole affair as some sort
of complicated religious ritual
and argued passionately that the
Cow had done right.
SHE had taken a job as a
housekeeper where they
gave her a room and had a
yard for the baby.
“He’ll grow,” she said.
“She should have a husband,
though,” said Eric, “if she wants
to keep the boy. She has no real
right to keep it without a father.
If you remember in Sons and
Lovers the father-child relation-
ship is of paramount”
But even as he was speaking
he realised that he had made a
mistake; Vera was alert with
interest and Lillian’s eyes were
glinting.
“Importance,” he finished
lamely.
“We would get her one,” said
Lillian, “if we were really stand-
ing-by.”
“Creating a precedent for
yourself?” asked Dennis.
“Don’t be flippant, Dennis,”
said Vera. “Lillian is quite
right.”
“But who?” said Lillian.
“Who’d marry her?” That was
a point. She was still the
Cow. ’
“For money,” said Vera, “a
man would do anything.”
“Particularly an artist,” agreed
Lillian.
“Eric,” said Vera suddenly.
“No,” said Eric.
"And I’m too young,” said
Dennis.
“How contemptible men are!”
said Vera. “I was only going
to ask you how much money.”
“Five-hundred,” said Eric,
stupidly regarding it as an
impossible sum.
“At least five-hundred,” said
Dennis, sardonic and cautious
at the same time.
“It’s a lot,” said Vera. “By
our standards, that is.”
For one reason and another
they were all desperately poor.
“Five-hundred,” said Lillian
softly, “would give Eric time to
finish his novel. Or let Dennis
paint something really solid for
the Blake Prize. Or —why,
there’s no one in the club,” she
finished, “who couldn’t use the
time five-hundred would give
him.”
“You could probably find
someone,” said Eric vaguely.
“And what’s wrong with the
Cow?” Vera was indignant.
“She’s a woman, isn’t she!
Healthy, isn’t she? She’d give
, you healthy children. That’s
if you were healthy, which I
doubt.”
“What about the others?” said
Eric.
“Yes,” said Lillian. “Not
just Eric or Dennis. But almost
everyone we know.”
“Like a raffle,” said Dennis
sarcastically.
“What a splendid idea!”
Vera slapped him on the back.
“You couldn’t raise five-
hundred out of tickets,” said
Eric, frightened. “Not with the
Cow as the prize.”
“The tickets would have to be
very cheap,” said Lillian
“Almost free.”
“But the money?” said Vera.
“The kids,” suggested Lillian,
“are always raising money for
something,”
The kids were the straight-
types at the university, the bods
who went to dances, joined
clubs and collected for the
United Nations Student Hostel
and other healthy activities.
“Bazaars!” cried Vera.
“Bridge - parties! Housie-
housie! ” Even the words
usually disgusted her, but not
now, not for the Cow. “Our
mothers!” she finished trium-
phantly.
THUS it happened. All the
club-girls had to help.
There was a flood of outrage-
ously expensive dances, crib-
contests and the like.
The parents involved were
delighted. Here were their
daughters, terrible bullying
girls, who had been staying out
tiff heaven-knows-what hour
the-devil-knows-where, and here
they were busily at home, smil-
ing and charming, selling raffle-
tickets and getting their pic-
tures in the Sunday papers like
proper North Shore girls.
(Continued on next page )
THE SHIPS CAT
The cat comes ambling down the deck,
Weaving a pattern of progression
Round bollard-pin and stanchion, under ropes,
Anything to guard her back from heaven.
She looks through slits, intelligence a claw
That hooks a golden curtain wide enough
To let inside a modicum of world.
Bulwark is limit. AH beyond is bluff.
Here is the ego all wrapped up in fur.
She does not worry if no one responds
To her advances; takes her meat, “and sleep,
And answers bounty with a purr; unbends
"X,
To make a show of loving when she’s touched:
Suffers a hand to tickle at her neck,
Or stroke her back, the parts she cannot reach.
Masts up her tail for this and rubs the deck
Extended upwards into human legs.
Goes missing; the cook’s boy finds her in his hammock,
Ejects her, only to have a weight of bliss
Heaving on the ground-swell of his stomach.
No selfless love, no generous, pure affection
Returned for care; yet she’s a benison
To man: she makes the most invidious
Feel wondrous virtuous by comparison.
N.Z,
W. HART-SMITH.


r
5
a
7
%
m
m
A
Lv
■
i
■
ssss*
irf* 6
but he has a fast friend!
a t/sr a a l/a ‘s so pea
ffJ S 01/AtP
44 , 9\
M a ke.. Me spirit of Happy metcAmy
not//? FAST f/?/£#& root
AT YOUR
.ATLANTIC
G2Zkr&>
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Director*: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all Statee.
They went back to normal, of
course, as soon as the money
was raised.
“Determination,” said Vera
as she dropped the names into a
hat, “can achieve almost any-
thing.”
It had. Almost every man’s
name was there. Those who
had no ambition that needed
five-hundred pounds had been
blackmailed into participation.
It had seemed simpler to submit
than to argue. After all, the
more names, the less chance —as
Vera had proved time and again
with a dazzling display of third-
year Maths.
“And,” as she scornfully put
it, “why not? You couldn’t be
worse off than you are now.
It’s not as though you’ve got
anything to be happy about.”
It wasn’t logic, perhaps, but
it was Vera, and she was
unanswerable. E v e r y o n e’s
name went in.
The club was full for the draw-
ing, of course, and when Eric’s
name came out the cheering was
loud and enthusiastic. And
it was followed by “For He’s a
Jolly Good Fellow” with an
obbligato from the cashier, beg-
ging a little silence.
Lillian congratulated Eric.
“Come back and tell us the
arrangements,” she said.
“We’ll be here at four,” said
Vera. “I know it’s irrational,
but I do love weddings.”
“All right,” said Eric, tight-
lipped. “I’ll go and tell the
Cow.”
“It would be nice,” said Vera,
“to see her surprise, but it would
be nicer for her to see you
alone.”
No one had told the Cow their
plans.
T}RIC came back at four. He
looked happy.
“I saw Chloe,” he announced.
“Somehow I shall always think
of her as Chloe, now. She
won’t have me.”
“A second draw, then,” said'
Vera, annoyed.
“She won’t have anyone,” said
Eric. “She’s perfectly splendid,
a real woman, a Lawrence
character. She said we were
silly, just babies, kids. And she
lifted up her own baby—he’s
grown quite human-looking—
and held him up high, like this."
He held a coffee-cup high in
the air so that the afternoon
sun caught it and it shone.
“As though she were holding
both hands up to the sun. And
she said she was perfectly, per-
fectly happy. And, do you
know, it’s an extraordinary thing
but I believe she is. She looked
quite pleasant.”
They stared at him. There
was nothing to say.
“So I just gave her the
money,” said Eric, “and came
away. It seemed the Lawrence
thing to do.”
The Mistake
By Q.E. Sturges
THE ordinary station-
routine—operating, main-
tenance, ordering and
cleaning was easy ;
nothing to put a man on
his mettle. One charge-
engineer was as good as
another. But a job like this,
where snags had to be foreseen
and forestalled, where the metal-
lurgical men were waiting im-
patiently for the current to flow
through the cells, was a different
matter.
At first things went smoothly,
the four crews working efficiently
while Jackson watched that the
materials were to hand, that the
jobs were done in the right
sequence, and that the necessary
tests were carried out as the
circuits were connected.
'And then it happened. Mapley
looked round, beckoned him to
the slip-rings; the others stood
waiting. One glance showed the
mistake —the brushes. Wrong
size, and carbon instead of
morganite. There was nothing
he could do, except send a
runner to the station-store for
the right box—and sweat blood
while he waited, watching the
clock, the job held up, the brush-
crew sitting on the base-plate,
rolling cigarettes .
And all because this damned
old fool had sent the wrong box.
Must be half-blind. Too old, that
was the trouble. They had to
retire some time ; why not before
they got dangerous?
He glared at the storeman.
“Can’t you read? How anyone
could possibly the box was
marked both ends, plain as day.”
As always when he was in the
grip of emotion, his upper lip
started to quiver ; he put up a
hand to hide it, pretending to
rub his nose.
Old Bob Adams looked up at
him sullenly. “All make mis-
takes,” he muttered.
“Of course we do. But not
stupid ones. Anyhow, it’s the
last you’ll make in here; I
warned you before, when you
mixed those instruments up.”
Adams flashed him a resentful
look. “Anyone could make a
mistake like that.”
“Stacey didn’t. He was store-
man for fifteen years, and he
didn’t mix them.”
“When he was new to the
job, before you were here, he
might have.”
“That doesn’t concern me.
It’s now that matters . . . Any-
how, I’ll see the boss about a
transfer for you.”
His mouth tightened im-
patiently as a look of misery
crossed the storeman’s face.
“There’s no need to take it
iike that. You’re not getting the
sack. And the money’ll be the
same.”
Adams stared at the floor.
“Mates are all in here,” he
muttered.
Jackson snorted. “This is a
power-station, not a working-
man’s club.”
Adams turned away and
started to tidy a shelf of tools.
Jackson watched him for a few
seconds, then turned about
abruptly and made his way along
the operating - floor to the
superintendent’s office.
A DAMS was checking coils
when Jackson returned.
When he heard Jackson enter the
store he didn’t turn round but
kept on counting, doing his best
tp appear unconcerned, while all
tne time he was waiting tensely
for Jackson to speak.
Jackson said flatly, as if it
didn’t matter to him one way or
the other: “You’ve got one more
chance ; the super”
“Gosh! Thanks, Keith!”
Adams swung round, his eyes
shining.
“Don’t thank me,” Jackson
snapped, his pretence of indif-
ference forgotten. “The boss’s
too damned soft; and I told him
so, too.” He looked coldly at
Adams. “You needn’t think you
got off scot-free. You’re being
shifted from the store for a
fortnight.” He paused, then
added vindictively, “On
cleaning.”
Adams didn’t care, as long as
he was left in the station with
his mates; but he felt a twinge
of pity for Jackson, knowing
how hard a young man takes
a knock-back ; so he pulled a
wry face, and muttered as if he
were annoyed.: “Tomorrow?”
“No. Right now. I told
Woodhouse to take over as soon
as he’s finished cleaning number-
ten shunt-room.”
Adams entered the coils on
the shelf-card, took his coat
from the peg and picked up his
lunch-tin and paper. Then he
turned to Jackson. “What do I
do?”
Jackson rubbed his chin
reflectively. “You can start by
giving number-five trannie a,
clean.”
T EANING the ladder against
the transformer, Adams
was making sure that the rubber
suction-cups were tight against
the floor.
He put the cleaning materials
in his overalls-pocket, so as to
have both hands free for climb-
ing. As he put his foot on the
first rung he thought, “I’m too
old for climbing; I suppose
that’s why he gave me this job
—out of spite.”
His heavy boot slipped on the
rung ; should have put my sand-
shoes on, he thought. He hesi-
tated, wondering whether to go
back and change. No, not worth
while, he decided; won’t be that
long.
As he climbed he wondered
about Jackson, why he had
boiled-over where another man
would bark a word of censure
and forget. Jackson hadn’t
always been like it, only since
he’d been charge-engineer. Some
said it was the cumulative effect
of the noise and shift-work, some
that it was because he carried the
job on his back, others reckoned
it was just the nature of the
swine.
He himself thought that
Jackson, being so young, had let
the rise go to his head, and was
taking his chance to crack the
whip. Well, whatever the reason,
there it was; it was part of the
job to be accepted and endured.
But he’d better watch his step;
another slip, and he’d be out on
the plant for sure, in the dirt and
fumes, away from his mates.
He stepped carefully from the
ladder onto the transformer. The
transformer-top curved slightly
down from a flattened centre,
something like an inverted
saucer. His heavy boots felt-un-
sure on the sloping steel. He
looked around. It certainly
needed a clean. The insulators
and the tops of the copper con-
nections were covered with a
black, gleaming film—dust blown
from the rotaries embedded with
specks of copper ground from
the commutators.
(Continued on page 30)


Gallipoli: What Went Wrong
Fantastic Beyond Belief
By PRIVATE SAPPER
THIS is like the old one
about who called the cook
a , and vice versa.
Only it wouldn’t be the
cook.
Something like half of Alan
Moorehead’s often spectacular,
occasionally inspired and
generally splendid Gallipoli
(Hamish Hamilton) is concerned
with exposing, analysing things
that went wrong, or why things
didn’t go as right as they should
have done, in the mostly sun-
blazed fighting adventure on the
fabled peninsula.
For quite a distance —eight
chapters is quite a distance—-it
may not be much more than
efficient journalism. Then
Moorehead rattles the dice a bit
and throws Chapter Nine, and
rakes all bets of that sort into
his hat: so good a chapter that
it casts a glow over all that
follows, and even a backward
glow on what had gone before.
It’s alive with the old excitement.
Not being a didactic fellow,
and being (a bit reluctantly, you
may feel) himself caught up in
the red whirlwind of the Gallipoli
Legend in that chapter and after,
Moorehead doesn’t, and ma'ybe
can’t, emerge triumphant with a
specimen-board of well-pinned
bedraggled Blimps. Except for
the one who figured in the Suvla
landing (where the opportunity
and the men were right and only
the leader wasn’t) he really
doesn’t exactly skewer anybody.
Rather, for the most part, he
hints a fault and hesitates dis-
like. And even with the Suvla
affair you might wish, if you
have human feeling, that it might
have been possible for him to
have left the poor old clod
unnamed:, to have been able to
have just buried him there in
silent ceremony in the salty sand,
the Unknown Blimp.
Not that, otherwise, Moore-
head spares, or glosses, the facts.
His parade of them is plentiful,
apparently complete; and stag-
gering. It’s just that, for his
own part, he withholds judgment.
Just when you think he is going
to skewer, he pulls back the
point. But for those who do
like their scapegoats spitted and
done to a turn there’s an
abundant bag to pick from, and
they can do their own cooking.
Grilled Churchill or Fisher,
roast Kitchener or Hamilton, and
many more. He does singe them
a little . . .
To get away from the cook-
house and into the field, I, per-
sonally, would set the sights for
rather higher game. For surely
all this that went wrong—so
repeatedly, incredibly, fantas-
tically wrong—was something
beyond the powers of mere
human failure. They’re so
utterly impossible, these failures
—the whole wonderful succession
of things left undone that should
have been done, of the wrong
men in the wrong places, of no
plans and no preparations, of
messages that went astray, of
remote-control “leaders” who
might as well have been orchid-
hunting in Patagonia—it is all
so fantastic that it would be a
sort of flattery to give the blame
(or should it be the credit?) to
mere mortal men.
Lumped together, it all builds
to suberb drama. The guiding
hands, the watchers, are not of
this earth. Even that poor beggar
of a “leader” sitting down at
Suvla, and waiting—for what?
—even he is bemused. He did
do for them all with his plan of
attack, as Sassoon would have
savagely said . . . but, well, it’s
a long time ago.
And, anyway, he didn’t have
that on his own, either. The
gods doing the deciding (it’s
uncomplimentary, and hence
rash, to overlook them in this
context), most of the accepted
main characters in the drama
were capable of that sort of
thing from right at the start, and
before it, and, in fact, all the
time, except at the miraculous
end. And then, at that end, it
was the ones ashore that did not
go wrong—rather, that the gods
did not allow to go wrong. They
never did go very far wrong
there, ashore. On the higher
levels, even at that finish, you
still get this sort of thing
(Moorehead quoting Keyes)—
Thus the Admiral and the General
who were really entirely responsible
for the lamentable policy of evacua-
tion left the execution of this
unpleasant task to an Admiral and a
General who were strongly opposed to
it.
And the way thither brightly
gleams with gems of this water :
Maxwell withholding troops from
Hamilton, Fisher withholding ships
from Churchill, the Conservatives
withholding political support from
Asquith.
Or, again, at a remote, and
safe, remove from that miracle
of an ending—the getting-away
—you have this sort of thing
going on (and if you can blanket
Olympus out of this you have
more hardihood than I have):
In the midst of these arrangements
[that is, for the getting-away] Lord
Milner and others chose to discuss
openly the whole question of evacua-
tion in the House of Lords in Lon-
don.
Moorehead —who should, for
his own personal wellbeing, find
out where Olympus really is, and
burn some of his royalties there
in a belated gesture of appease-
ment —gives even the marvellous
outcome of that fool yabber a
mere human equation; thus:
Fortunately, however, the Turks
and the Germans simply could not
bring themselves to believe that the
British would give away their plans
in this casual way; they revealed
later that they regarded the in
the House of Lords as propaganda.
At this point it should perhaps
be said that Moorehead’s
ultimate finding on the whole
show—in the light of subsequent
developments, not only in that
war but after it —is that the
Gallipoli campaign itself was no
blunder or reckless gamble; “it
was the most imaginative con-
ception of the war, and its
potentialities were almost beyond
reckoning.”
That, of course, is a welcome
feat of patting with both hands:
it is a nice one for Churchill, the
true begetter of all this, and, for
our own good comfort, it leaves
the Gallipoli Legend intact, and
enhanced. And at this time of
day any book about Gallip.
which fails to do just that might
much better not be written. You
can’t buck a Legend as potent as
this one.
In the same summing-up,
Moorehead adds: “By the
nineteen-thirties a large library
[about Gallip.] had grown up,
British, French, Turkish and
German, arid although there was
general criticism of the tactics
no serious student now ques-
tioned the wisdom of the Allies
going to the Dardanelles.”
No one questioned, either —
and certainly will never question
after reading Moorehead’s fierce
instances —the sheer natural
fighting quality of the men who
made the Legend—the Diggers
naked in the sun at Anzac, the
splendid British down at Helles ;
and the Turks.
There is always a risk,
naturally, in taking chosen
instances as typical; but, having
to speak here as one who was
there for a while, I would say
myself that the Moorehead
instances of a sort of casual
fierceness and ferocity are typical
enough to be true, and anything
to the contrary is the extreme
rarity. Everyone, from Mase-
field to Moorehead, is agreed
that you couldn’t, in the whole
course of fighting history, get
together a gathering of men
(both sides) more fitted to fight
that fierce fight than the ones
who fought it.
Queerly, and even now a bit
incredibly, about the worst case
of a chap with the breeze up that
I ever came across was one with
whom I briefly shared a scar on
the ridge at Gallip. The only
comparable case I can think of
was a major in a Fritz pillbox
on Westhoek Ridge in the
Passchendaele show. The major,
I know, was killed soon after-
wards ; maybe the other bloke
was, too. They usually were,
those chaps ; along with the best.
It could be that they knew their
number was on it, and the rest—
and the best—didn’t.
Against that Gallip. curiosity
should be set up at once as the
general contrast, the typical, a
cobber there (also briefly),
Linane. When I last heard of
him he was still banana-farming
up near the Tweed (N.S.W.), and
I trust he found it fruit. On
Gallip. the last I saw of him
was when, alongside me, he
stopped one through the eye. It
apparently went down through
the roof of his mouth and
dropped on to his tongue. Linane
spat it out, and said, conversa-
tionally, “That’s hot!” Then
he went a bit white about the
gills and staggered out of the
war.
Gallip. actually was like
that. But could that be any
special merit of men ; any unique
mettle of their pasture? Gallip.
did that sort of thing—and, of
course, more, much more —to all
manner of men. Moorehead
gives many instances which, at
this remove, come back and hit
you with the force of something
strangely surprising encountered
in a dream; things which there
you took for granted, as a matter
of course, as the normal behavior
of men in a bare fight.
Instances of what men did
there —all manner of men. More
than once he is driven to speak
of madness —the madness of
men. Surely, in that setting, the
madness, rather, of the mad
gods. Thereabouts is a gods-
haunted place, and the whole lot
of them mad. No wonder things
went a bit wrong. You can’t
buck the gods, either . . .
Back with Moorehead, then, to
the beginning of things—to
happenings of which straws like
Linane and myself and all the
thousands of others bf our sort
who were in the fight knew
nothing and cared less. Even
those of them who have since
made something of a study of it
will probably come across in
Moorehead a great deal that is
new to them. I wouldn’t know;
my own “study” stopped at
Masefield, a bit of C. E. W. Bean,
some of lan Hamilton, Leon
Gellert’s Songs of a Campaign
(critics might do well to keep in
mind that Leon was among the
very first of the actual war-
poets), Rupert Brooke, and that
nostalgic outburst of feeling for
it by one who wasn’t there which
its then-young English author
John North called Gallipoli —
The Fading Vision, and which,
in its patterning of events, may
well have set the model for
Moorehead.
With this very light reading
about it —maybe as much as the
bulk of surviving Anzacs have
bothered about—a grand amount
of Moorehead naturally is most
surprising. He has gone to the
sources and the archives and
dug out the weird and wonderful.
I think that he, and even the
Legend, will pardon us all if now
we take a pleasurable sardonic
view of some of this.
So, right away back to before
the start, and. the pretty affair of
those Turkish-ordered ships—■
influencing, if not deciding,
whether Johnno fought us or
fought with us. In this bit of the
drama there were two warships,
ordered by the Turks long before
the.war started at all; away back
at a time when this present
reader, with a great many more
like him, would have been well
and truly toiling in some neck
of the Australian bush, about as
far as you could be from any
thought, or dream, of an order
for a couple of warboats
presently getting hold of you and
landing you, just about literally,
in the lap of the gods. Here’s
Moorehead:
The order for the two vessels was
placed in England, the keels were
laid down, and something of a
patriotic demonstration [in Turkey]
was made of the whole affair.
In every Turkish town people were
asked to contribute to the cost of this
new venture. Collection-boxes were
put up on the bridges across the
Golden Horn, special drives were
made among the village communities,
and no doubt in the end there was a
warm feeling among the public that
this was its own spontaneous contri-
bution to the revival of the Turkish
Navy. By August, 1914, one of the
ships was completed at Armstrong’s
on the Tyne, and the other was ready
for delivery within a few weeks.
At this point—to be precise, on
August 3, the eve of the outbreak of
war —Winston Churchill, the First
Lord of the Admiralty, announced to
the Turks that he could not make
delivery; in the interests of national
security the two ships had been
requisitioned by the British Navy.
One does not need much imagina-
tion to understand the indignation and
disappointment with which this news
was received in Turkey: the money
had been paid, the two ships had been
given Turkish names, and Turkish
crews were actually in England wait-
ing to man them and bring them
home.
One doesn’t need much
(Continued on page 27)
As on the day of the Landings, April 25, 1915.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney and Melbourne racing
this spring should be the most
interesting from both official and
publ\ic viewpoints for many
seasons, mainly because of the
New Zealand invasion. There
are more horses with “N.Z.”
after itheir names in the spring
weighlfs than in previous history,
and the list includes the
Dominion’s crack performers.
The brilliant El Khobar,
winner of the Doomben Ten
Thousand, is expected to have
his first Sydney start in the
weight-foff-age Warwick Stakes
at Warwick Farm on Saturday,
August 25. The field for this
£l5OO contest over seven
furlongs is expected to include
the glamor horse of the New
Zealand year, Syntax, as well
as other top-class New Zea-
landers and .Sydney’s best horses
aged three years and upwards.
It must be just about unique
in racing for a medical man to
be an owner-trainer. Anyway,
Victorian counttry medico Dr. F.
P. Donoghue is claimed as the
first of his profession to figure
as owner-trainer of a Melbourne
winner. He trains privately at
Leongatha, about 80 miles from
Melbourne, and left early last
Saturday morning for Moonee
Valley with Princess Debra in a
float towed by his car. The mare
firmed from 50 to 1 to 16’s for
the Second Derrimut Welter,
which she won easily, beating
hot favorite Dark Silk and Brad-
dock. After the race Dr.
Donoghue rubbed the mare
down, and left for tine home trip.
Princess Debra had won in the
Gippsland district. Dr.
Donoghue has held an owner-
trainer’s licence for about 10
years.
At the Valley the two-year-
olds (on the eve of turning three)
competed over a mile in the
Coo-ee Handicap, won by New
Zealand-bred Reinstate, who
hasn’t done much racing. An
easy winner, he’s raced by D. S.
Whiteside, whose horses in the
season just ended won 17 races
and £12,765 in stakes. Reinstate
is by Resurgent (imp.), who
didn’t face a starting-barrier, but
was imported to New Zealand
as a yearling to replace his half-
brother, Admiral’s Luck (imp.),
a former top sire in the
Domin i o n. Reinstate cost
450gns. as a yearling, which was
about half what he earned in
stakemoney at the Valley. His
dam, Forth Bridge, won half-a-
dozen races in New Zealand.
Melbourne trainers F. Hoysted
and T. Lewis finished a dead-
heat with 33 wins for the
season-premiership honor;
Williamson won the jockeys’
premiership with 45 firsts.
Now a seven-year-old entire,
Advocate won his third succes-
sive race, the S.T.C. Cup (worth
£2530, plus a £3OO gold cup), at
Rosehill on Saturday. State
Governor Sir John Northcott
handed over the trophy, and also
presented trophies to leading
trainer T. J. Smith and leading
jockey J. Thompson.
The 1947 A.J.C. Derby was
won in tearaway fashion by
Valiant Crown. That colt was
trained at Randwick by Alf
Doyle, who is hopeful of repeat-
ing the success this spring with
Zaheida, who is to follow the
programme adopted for Valiant
Crown, who was, till Derby day,
regarded by most as a non-stayer.
Zaheida may have his next out-
ing in the Canterbury Guineas
on September 1, four weeks
before the running of the Derby.
The field for the classic will be
vastly superior to that which
followed Zaheida to the win-
ning-line at Rosehill, but the
colt showed grit and determina-
tion in winning his third race of
the season. He is by Bois de
Rose (imp.) from Gold Symbol
by Mall Mark (1933 Melbourne
Cup winner) from Danish Lady.
Bois de Rose, a winner in
England, is a son of Bahram,
unbeaten winner of £43,000 in
stakes, including the English
Derby and the St. Leger.
Former country performer
Geiger, recently a winner at
Hawkesbury, made a successful
first city appearance when,
ridden right out by apprentice
R. George, he won the Rosehill
First Parramatta Stakes, his third
success in four outings. Geiger,
now a five-year-old, should be
able to gallop ; he comes from
the family which produced stayer
King of Mirth, winner of the
Adelaide Derby and successful
at Flemington and Caulfield.
Desert Gold and Gold Rod, two
high-class performers, also figure
in his pedigree. The gelding is by
Detector (imp.), a Hyperion sire,
from Lady Silv by Silvius (imp.)
from Saintly Lady by St. Anton
(imp.), and traces back on the
dam’s side to Trenton.
Last race of the 1955-56
Sydney season, the Rosehill
Second Parramatta Stakes, was
won after a hard struggle by
Prince Genius, a maiden until
that day. At two prior starts
Prince Genius had been beaten
a head when piloted by
apprentice J. Hughes, who
deserved better luck. J.
Thompson had the mount at
Rosehill, and his strength and
clever handling of the gelding
brought success. Prince Genius
is a four-year-old by Ingenious
(imp.) from Merry Joan by
Merry Matthew (imp.).
Ulandra cost 1600gns. as
a yearling at the Randwick sales
last year. The two-year-old Nilo
(imp.)-Hua Maid gelding pro-
bably returned all that and more
to the T. J. Smith stable (there
was a heavy plunge on him)
when he won a midweek War-
wick Farm Juvenile Maiden.
Hua Maiden is a Marconigram
(imp.) mare from Hero Glad
by Heroic.
Kembla Two-year-old Maiden
winner Paranilo set his owner,
G. Warby, back the tidy sum of
£6090 as a yearling at the Rand-
wick sales last year. The son of
Nilo (imp.) started at very brief
odds for his Kembla win, and
the event was worth £75. Parra-
matoo, dam of the colt, is a
sister to Drum Net, a good Mel-
bourne winner. She is by Mid-
stream (imp.) from Ranier
(sister to Rampion) by Rossen-
dale (imp.).
The final two-year-old race of
the Brisbane-area season,
Ipswich’s Novice sprint for that
age-group, was won by the
most - topically - named Rising
Fare, by One Up from Tram-
fare !
There’s been some published
bellyaching about the weight
(9.7) given to Syntax in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Four years back
another crack New Zealander,
Dalray, won the Cup with 9.8,
and Syntax is fully expected to
take his place in this year’s field.
He’s a four-year-old, and* that
age-group has the best record in
the Cup, with 26 firsts. Weight-
for-age for four-year-olds in the
two-miler is 9st., and horses to
win it with more than that
poundage (in addition to Dalray)
have been Phar Lap (9.12),
Nightmarch (9.2), Windbag
(9.2), Patron (9.3) and Glencoe
(9.1). As four of the last six
Cup winners scored with 9.5 or
more, the Syntax party can look
forward to the Cup with reason-
able confidence.
+ +
The luck of the toss plays a
big part in deciding Test-victory
there’s not much between
the two sides, and when the
weather and the pitch can
change of a sudden. England
has had just about all the luck
in those directions this time.
When Australia did win the toss,
in the second Test, it also won
the Test.
Of course, if you have an
extra-powerful side and an
opposition with some weaknesses
the losing of the toss doesn’t
greatly matter. Bradman called
right only once in England in
1948, yet his side won four
Tests, all by terrific margins.
Otherwise the toss is important.
The 1956 Aussies, though
unfairly labelled, considering
their many injuries and whatnot,
“pie-eaters,” are still far from
being in the “extra-powerful”
class.
Had Johnson won the toss
in the fourth Test, it’s hardly
likely England’s bowlers, even
Laker and Lock, could have dis-
missed Australia on the first day
for 84 or so ; and England, on
the crumbling pitch of late on
the second day, may also have
crashed badly. Laker and Lock
are without doubt greater
bowlers than Johnson and
Benaud ; but the Australian pair
wouldn’t have been completely
clueless on the dustbowl wjiich
gave Laker best figures ever
(9-37) in an Engl and-Australia
Test.
“Mid-on”: When Australia
won the second Test, and fol-
lowing selection of England’s
third-Test team (including Wash-
brook), an Australian cricket-
writer, criticising the selection,
told England to get new selec-
tors —presumably in the hope
that another English XI might
be able at least to give Aus-
tralia a game. Since the out-
come of the third Test, however,
the critic has been concentrating
on Johnson’s merits or other-
wise, dustbowl pitches, etc.
* * *
Sydney professional Frank
Phillips proved in the
special amateur - professional
matches staged at the Australian
course, Kensington (Sydney),
that he is the longest-hitting
golfer in N.S.W. In his 2-and-l
defeat of N.S.W. amateur cham-
pion runner-up Lee Patterson,
he continuously outdrove
Patterson by 30 to 40yds.; and
Patterson drives the ball around
the 300 yd.-mark..-mark.
* * *
Collingwood, which in these
last four V.F.L. home-and-home
rounds has the toughest road
ahead—it meets each of the
other four leading teams —made
fairly sure of a place in the finals
by surmounting the first of these
hurdles, Footscray, 14.20-11.6.
’Wood finished all over ’Scray,
which drops out of “the four,”
to make way for Carlton. Carl-
ton toppled easy North, 11.16-
"How did We go in the Fourth Test?”
4.8, but the Blues may still have
to battle to keep ’Scray out of
the finals. Melbourne donged
Fitzroy 11.15-7.11, and Geelong,
piling up a first-quarter lead,
held off Richmond, 11.13-9.11.
In the other games South drew
with Hawthorn 12.6-10.18, and
Essendon just scraped in by two
points from St. Kilda, 7.7-6.11.
“Blufire”: Little wonder that
St. Kilda can wear down its
opponents in the final stages of
games. Average age of the side
is 20 years 10 months. Skipper
Keith Drinan, in his last season,
is the oldest at 31, with former
Essendon centreman Alan Dale
next at 25.
“Atala”: In a recent league
game in Adelaide, South beat
Sturt 10.22-11.5 an 11-point
win. As indicated by the scores,
South had more of the run of
play but fell down near goal.
The result, unusual in that the
losing team scored the more
goals, revived (among Sturt
supporters, anyway) the con-
troversy as to whether goals only
should count. That was the first
method of scoring in the game,
changed to the points-system
because, in those lower-scoring
days, there . were too many
drawn games.
* * *
Gordon regained from Rand-
wick the lead in Sydney’s Rugby
Union competition by defeating
’Wick 19-9. The game was hard
but lacking as a spectacle;
Randwick’s defeat was not
unexpected, as it had been flat-
out to avoid defeat lately from
two low-ranking sides, Eastwood
and Drummoyne. St. George
beat last year’s premiers, Uni-
versity, 17-8, and the Students
appear already to have failed in
the exams for this year’s
pennant. Easts, in third com-
petition-place, crushed Parra-
matta 31-0, Eastwood played its
second successive draw, 25-all
with Norths, and Manly headed
Drummoyne 20-14.
St. Joseph’s, holder of the
title, won this year’s G.P.S.
Rugby Union premiership. It
defeated King’s 15-6, in what
was a virtual final; Joey’s have
not been defeated in the last two
seasons.
“Cunedda”: Watching a fifth-
grade high-school Rugby Union
game, Drummoyne v. Canter-
bury, at Ashfield (Sydney), I saw
a Drummoyne lad score a try.
The boy who was to take the
shot at goal approached his
captain, who spoke to the
referee, and the kicker was
allowed to try for goal by drop-
kick instead of the usual place-
kick. In 30-odd years of watch-
ing Rugby Union I had never
previously seen this done, and
a relative, who used to be a
Union referee, said that neither
as player nor as ref. had he
encountered a similar case. The
Rugby Union method of place-
kicking for a try, in which one
player holds the ball, is justifiably
unpopular with many goal-
kickers. If the drop-kick can
be used as an alternative, this
ought to be made known; it
might help to revive the almost
lost art of the drop-kick.
* * *
Two young teams, Canterbury
and Woonona, in N.S.W.’s
southern-division Soccer, played
a bright 5-all draw at Arlington
oval on Saturday. In a thrilling
finish three goals were scored in
the last three minutes. Canter-
bury, four of whose five nippy
young forwards are representa-
tive players, is battling for a
position in the State-premiership
quarter-finals ; Woonona is way
down the list, but if it can
strengthen its defence could do
better next year.
“Shutemon”: The Australian
Olympic Soccer XI put Soccer
on the W.A. map when, at
Bayswater oval, Perth, on July
14, it easily beat W.A. 4-1. Its
display of positional football
was worthy of any of the inter-
national teams which have
visited the West of recent years.
Three of the W.A. team were
picked for this month’s trials
in Sydney and Brisbane. (The
Australian team was undefeated
in its five-game tour, scoring
29 goals to 4 against.)


imagination, either, to hear the
loud “Whacko!” of the gods.
They hadn’t been able to arrange
things better
Since great Achilles and Atndes
strove, ,
Such was the soV’reign doom, ana
such the will of Jove.
The Germans, of course,
rushed to make good Turkey s
loss: two German warships
would be sent forthwith ; and so,
presently, there were the Goeben
and the Breslau steaming up
through the Dardanelles, the
Goeben anchored in the
Bosphorus, Admiral Souchon
and his crew going through the
farce of dressing-up in fezzes and
pretending that they were sailors
of the Turkish Navy, and a
rueful pun going round the
foreign colony of the British, the
Russian and the French
Embassies: “Deutschland über
Allah.”
So much so that now Liman
von Sanders and his Military
Mission were openly reorganising
the Turkish Army, moulding it
nearer to the German heart’s
desire ; while, afloat:
Admiral Souchon was constantly
sending the Goeben into the Black
Sea on manoeuvres. Once, being
moved by a sense of humor which is
a little difficult to gauge at this
distance, he brought his ship to a
standstill before the Russian Embassy
on the Bosphorus. The sailors
appeared on deck in their German
uniforms and treated the enemy
Ambassador to a concert of German
national songs. Then, putting on
their fezzes, they sailed away again.
All this can be called the first
big thing that went wrong. But
for those couple of ordered and
paid-for and undelivered war-
boats . . . well, Johnno might
have been blundered in on to
Fritz’s side in some other way,
and the boats, anyhow, were no
doubt not wholly responsible,
but the episode certainly has the
authentic light touch of the
gods.
With Johnno thus tossed in on
the wrong side, there was in
London, as Moorehead rather
nicely puts it, “a general feeling
that something ought to be done
about Turkey.”'' One of the
“somethings” thought up —by
Kitchener and Churchill —was
to have a shot at persuading the
Greeks to land an army on the
Gallipoli peninsula. There was,
it would now seem, a delayed-
action bomb in this one ; a Bomb
for Britain which the gods would
seem to have been holding up
their sleeve right to this present
day (1956 and hereabouts):
It was quite an intriguing project,
and the Greeks on being sounded out
were at first quite eager; they were to
be given the island of Cyprus as a
reward.
Pardon the italics ; the gods
requested them . . . Anyway, the
gods being merciful as often as
not, the Greek Expeditionary
Project fizzled out; and in those
circumstances there could then
be only one British alternative —
send for the Navy:
For two centuries the British Fleet
had gone on from one victory to
another, it was the one wholly
unshakeable power in the world; what
hope was there that a handful of old
guns on the Dardanelles could hold
it back?
That’s Moorehead; and if he
likes to go around calling the
gods “a handful of old guns”
fliat’s his lookout. In this after-
knowledge, it seems conclusive
that at least once, if not - twice,
the Fleet could have, and should
have, got through. Simply, at
the crucial moment the fight was
postponed, adjourned! As
simple as that... “A handful of
old guns"!
True, there were a few old
guns in the gorse on those hills
looking down on the Hellespont
(somewhere about where Byron
qualified for membership of the
Bondi Icebergs by swimming
across in a few hours in the near-
freezing water); but consider the
exaltation of the Johnnos
manning those guns (those of
the other side have their many
fierce moments of exaltation,
too, as you read Moorehead):
Those who watched the Turkish
gunners at Kilid Bahr on the Gallipoli
side of the straits say that they fought
with a wild fanaticism, an Imam
chanting prayers to them as they ran
to their work on the gun-emplace-
ments. This was something more
than the usual excitement of battle;
the men were possessed, appar-
ently—
There were other material
elements in this bit of a fight . . .
for one thing, the mines . . . but
in this after-knowledge the scales
seem heavily weighed on the side
of Keyes’s summing-up (in
1934):
I wish to place on record that I had
no doubt then, and have no doubt
now —and nothing will ever shake my
opinion—that from the 4th of April
onwards the Fleet could have forced
the straits and, with losses trifling
compared with those the Aimy
suffered, could have entered the Mar-
mara with sufficient force to destroy
the Turco-German Fleet.
And where would our Legend
have been then? As it was, it
was saved for us by what, still
perversely underestimating the
comedic and other talents of the
powers that be, Moorehead
refers to as “this astonishing
result*:
Although they knew they had
inflicted great damage on the Allied
Fleet on March 18 it never occurred to
the German and Turkish gunners on
the Dardanelles that the Allied war-
ships would not resume their attack
on the following day. The men stood
to their guns all through the morning
of March 19, and when there was
still no sign of the enemy they pre-
sumed that it was the gait that was
preventing the ships from coming
back. But the rough weather sub-
sided, and as day followed day with-
out any sign of the Fleet their sense
of dazed relief began to change into
hope. By the end of the month this
hope had developed into certainty.
There are other curious
machinations above the talents
of mere mortal men. Among
them, the Greeks, about this
time, were prepared to land three
divisions on Gallip. The French
and British were all for it ; but
the Russians cooked that one.
This is almost too rich for
comedy— they were scared of the
Greeks!
to Russia it was a matter of
great alarm. It revived all her old
fears about the guardianship of the
Bosphorus and the Dardanelles, her
one vital outlet to the south.
There is, comments Moore-
head, “a fatuity” about the
negotiations over this “that still
has power to cause surprise
across the gulf of two world
wars.” Still, “fatuity” wasn’t
altogether a preserve of the
Russians.
The Navy having had its
innings, it is time now to call in
the Army . . .
With the Army—in fact, in
charge of it —comes at least one
with some sense of all this being
a bit outside mere mortal
management. In his diary lan
Hamilton recorded that
Kitchener had headed his instruc-
tions to him “Constantinople
Expeditionary Force.” Hamilton
“begged him to alter this to avert
Fate’s evil eye” ; Kitchener con-
sented, and compromised “more
modestly” with “Mediterranean
Expeditionary Force.”
Ah, well, maybe Fate only
read the first draft . . . Here’s
Moorehead again:
By now there had been assembled
some thirteen [“some thirteen!”]
officers who were to act on Hamilton’s
staff. Most of these were regular
soldiers, but there were one or two
who, Hamilton says, had hastily put
on uniform for the first time in their
lives: “Leggins awry, spurs upside-
down, belts over shoulder-straps! I
haven’t a notion of who they all are.”
Others again who were to handle the
administration and quartermastering
of the headquarters he failed to meet
at all, since they had not heard of
their appointments as yet.
“As yet” is just about
marvellous: Moorehead is full
of such subconscious touches.
And so to war, in haste . . . and
what a day to pick!:
At 5 p.m. on Friday, March 13, the
party, armed with the instructions, the
inaccurate map, a three-year-old
handbook on the Turkish Army and a
pre-war report on the Dardanelles
defences, proceeded to Charing Cross
station.
This really does become
marvellous. In the perfumed
language of the most flowery
version of the Arabian Nights,
if it were written with the point
of a needle in the inner corner
of an eye, still would it be a
lesson to the circumspect. More
Moorehead:
As the train drew out Hamilton
said to Captain Aspinall, the young
officer who was to plan the opera-
tions, “This is going to be an unlucky
show. I kissed my wife through her
veil.” Four days later the party was
at the Dardanelles.
And, personally, I somehow
rather fancy that all such Digger
types as Linane would share my
sort of joy in all this. But we
ourselves haven’t got there yet;
not quite. Here’s Moorehead:
So now at midnight [March 18] they
were all gathered in the arena: the
Turks and the Germans at the
Narrows preparing to make a
desperate stand, the British and
French sailors with their battered but
still powerful fleet, and the new Allied
Commander-in-Chief who had arrived
without an army and without a plan.
For a little time longer it’s
still the Navy, solus; but we
soon get our first sight of logger-
heads (whatever loggerheads may
be, there are whole rafts of them
drifting all through this show):
This, then, was the situation on
March 21—a Naval Command that
believes that the Fleet can still get
through alone, and an Army Com-
mand convinced that it cannot.
And now the makers of the
Legend are moving, or about to
be moved, towards the whirl-
wind, a trifle haphazardly:
It is a matter of some surprise that
the expedition ever got to sea at all.
On March 26 Hamilton’s administra-
tive staff had still not arrived from
England (it did not get to Alexandria
until April 11), many of the soldiers
were still at sea, no accurate maps
existed, there was no reliable informa-
tion about the enemy, no plan had
been made, and no one had yet
decided where the Army was to be
put ashore.
The simplest questions were
unanswered. Was there water on the
shore or not? What roads existed?
What casualties were to be expected
and how were the wounded men to
be got off to the hospital-ships? Were
they to fight in trenches or in the
open, and what sort of weapons were
required? What was the depth of
water off the beaches and what sort of
boats were needed to get the men, the
guns and the stores ashore? Would
the Turks resist or would they break
as they had done at Sarikamish; and
if so how were the Allies to pursue
them without transport or sup-
plies? .
There were no periscopes (tor
trench fighting), no hand-grenades and
trench-mortars; ordnance workshops
set to work to design and make them.
In the absence of maps staff officers
scoured the shops [the shops /] for
guide-books.
As for such stuff and nonsense
as “security measures”:
Greek trading-caiques were noting
every preparation in the islands and
carrying the news back to enemy
agents in Athens. Letters were arriv-
ing in Alexandria by the ordinary
post from England marked, “Con-
stantinople Force, Egypt.” And the
“Egyptian Gazette” in Cairo not only
announced the arrival of each new
contingent but openly discussed the
chances of the expedition at the
Dardanelles.
Eventually, out of all this, the
great gathering of the ships in the
wonderful harbor at Lemnos;
and then, at last, the Landing.
And if this seems a casual
dismissal of that first magnificent
break into the Legend, Moore-
head’s own account of it is not
much better. We are still a hill
or two this side of his splendid
Chapter Nine, and he’s still the
efficient journalist, yet to mount
the whirlwind.
Perhaps he felt that Masefield,
in his grand romance, did the
spirit of that for all time, or if
not Masefield, then, among them,
the scores of others who have
had a go at it. At least it gives
him a thought for the Something
hovering about:
Even the natural elements the
unexpected currents in the sea, the
unmapped countryside, the sudaen
changes in the weather—have a cer-
tain eccentricity at Gallipoli. When
for an instant the battle composes
itself into a coherent pattern all is
upset by some chance shifting ot the
wind, some stray cloud passing over
the moon.
Some deliberate interference,
rather . • . from above the battle.
Like that stealth in the water
shifting the landing-boats in the
dark early-morning hours half-
a-mile off-course, so that, just in
from the thin bit of beach, there
was that sheer cliff that no one
expected, that no one knew was
there, that wasn’t on the maps
at all.
But all this has been done over
/ and over, as Moorehead might
excusably have thought. Besides,
it isn’t easy, to pattern into
anything recognisable and con-
vincing the death - grapples
scattered through the gorse on
the broken sides of hills in that
barely-dawn light. So it is the
path of wisdom to just let it go
on, and have a look at the
General instead:
Hamilton chose to immure himself
in the conning-tower of the Queen
Elizabeth, and thereby he cut him-
self off both from his staff and from
direct command of what was happen-
ing on shore Hamilton, in any
case, had resolved before ever the
battle began not to interfere unless
he was asked—all tactical authority
was handed over to his two corps
commanders, Hunter-Weston with the
British on the Cape Helles front, and
Birdwood with the Anzac forces at
Gaba Tepe.
And now this really does get
fantastic —and utterly beyond
belief if you’re earthbound
enough to make no bow to the
gods:—
Since these two officers [those
corps-commanders!] also remained at
sea [“at sea” is right] through the vital
hours of the day, they, too, were with-
out accurate information. Signalling
arrangements on the shore began to
fail as soon as the first contact with
the enemy was made, and very soon
each separate unit was left to its own
devices. Thus no senior commander
had any clear picture of the battle,
and battalions divided by only a mile
or two from the main front might
just as well have been fighting on the
moon for all the control the com-
manders exercised upon them.
On several occasions Hamilton
might have committed a mobile
reserve of troops with the most telling
consequences, but it never occurred
to him to do this without his sub-
ordinates’ approval, those same sub-
ordinates who were almost as much
in ignorance as he was, and in no
position to approve or disapprove of
anything.
“And now suddenly,” says
Moorehead, with journalistic
surprise, “everything seemed to
go wrong”!-“against an enemy
(Kemal) one of whose orders to
his men began, “I don’t order
you to attack, I order you to
die.”
There are to be other things
of the “everything seemed to go
wrong” variety—-Suvla and all
that bemused sitting-down there
and doing a lot of nowt are still
ahead ; but at Anzac and Helles,
at least (bar always the political
and suchlike befuddled boys in
the backroom), the amateur days
are over; the fight is on, the
Legend launched. It’s almost
safe already, since the Landing—
that’s the Anzac Legend, of
course ; pretty well all the British
that I’ve ever come across as
good as disown it: they don’t
want it, and certainly they don’t
need it. We do.
It is to be made more safe
(though not even yet really
secure) by that ferocity of the
Maytime madness, after “A few
moments before dawn.... May
19, General Bird wood was
woken in his dugout at Anzac
with the news that, in a packed
mass of many thousands, the
Turks were streaming across to
his trenches in the darkness.”
To get this into the right
focus you need to count the
number precariously holding
(holding on by their eyelids, if I
rightly recall Churchill) to those
400 wild and savage acres (“the
most savage part of the whole
peninsula,” says Moorehead):
There was no subtlety or caution
about the matter [in the Turk
onslaught]: some 42,000 men under
the command of Essad Pasha were
assembled and their orders were noth-
ing less than to demolish the whole
Anzac bridgehead at a single b10w....
At this time the Australian and New
Zealand Coins had dwindled to some
10,000 effective men, and it was only
by luck [the gods will hit Moorehead
yet for this sort of thing] that a
brigade that had been sent round to
Cape Helles earlier in the month was
returned to Birdwood on the eve of
the battle. This brought the numbers
to a total of about 17,000, of which
12,500 were available for fighting m
the front line. They were thus out-
numbered by more than three to one.
If you can visualise —or still
remember —all that, and the
place, you have to throw into the
picture, also, this:
Meanwhile on the peninsula the
Army’s store of ammunition had
fallen so low that the guns were
rationed to two shells a day.
More than that, I should say,
fell about us and about Fritz
every second in the Passchendaele
madness. Here’s some help from
Moorehead in the picturing of
this moment of the Legend back
at Anzac:
The Anzac position had by now
become very clearly defined: it was a
shallow triangle, covering about 400
acres, its base, a mile and a halt long,
resting on the sea, its apex reaching to
the slopes of Sari Bair about a
thousand yards from the shore. In
order to avoid the fire of the British
Fleet the Turks had dug their trenches
almost on top of the Anzac lines,
and at some places the two sides were
divided by not more than ten yards.
The situation at Quinn’s and Court-
nay’s Posts in the centre of the line
was fantastic; directly behind the Aus-
tralian trench (which was kept packed
with men day and night), a steep
cliff fell away to the gully below, and
the Turks had only to make an
advance of five yards in order to drive
a wedge through the bridgehead to
the sea.
6f course, they didn’t. Moore-
head’s Chapter Nine is all about
why and how not. More
briefly ... not ordained.
The truce then ... to bury
thejn—all those still rows and
heaps of them, where their blood
stained black (as it did) the red
gravel of the open, torn space
between. And the Legend a little
safer, and growing. A different
feeling thereafter for the Turk.
No rancor now at all. No hard
feelings . . . just kill him, and
see he doesn’t kill you—if you
can. Moorehead:
Once a staff-officer visiting the front
saw with astonishment that a number
of Turks were walking about behind
the lines in full view of the Aus-
tralians. He asked, “Why don’t you
shoot?” and was answered, Well,
they’re not doing any harm, are they l
Might as well leave the poor beggars
alone.”
Something like that, anyway.
The Lone Pine fights —mad
enough, and savage enough-
ahead. Meanwhile:
No stranger visiting the Anzac
bridgehead ever failed to be moved
and stimulated by it. It was a thing
so wildly out of life, so dangerous, so
high-spirited, such a grotesque and
theatrical setting and yet reduced to
such a calm and matter-ot-fact
routine. m
o Continued on page 30)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON Z
OSUIATVAN
vsxm.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
tt “nations." ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and, Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated, by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH HANGING BILL
pRESS and political opinion in
favor of the abolition of the
death-penalty in Britain was
quoted on these pages when a
bill for that purpose was passed
in the House of Commons,
although it was notable at the
time that public opinion—as
represented by the press, anyway
—seemed largely against aboli-
tion.
The subsequent rejection of
the bill in the House of Lords
by 238 votes to 95 does not, of
course, end the matter, but, as
the following excerpts from the
London “Times” reports of
Parliament indicate, some very
impressive arguments against
the bill were put forward by
their Lordships.
“An Effective Deterrent”
In opposing the bill, the Lord
Chancellor (Viscount Kilmuir)
said that the fundamental ques-
tion was: “Is capital punishment
for murder to be retained at all
in this country [Britain]?”
Then, as the “Times” puts it,
he went on to say that “the final
object of punishment, whether
in the form of execution,
imprisonment or fine, must be to
reduce crime”:
“In dealing with treatment
such as imprisonment, or when
probation, in various forms, was
being considered, reform came
first; but retribution and
deterrence were not to be
ignored in some cases of
murder. In speaking of retribu-
tion he did not mean revenge:
an eye for an eye had no place
in the criminal law.
“The real crux of the question
at issue was whether capital
punishment was a uniquely effec-
tive deterrent. The question
whether capital punishment was
a greater deterrent than life-
imprisonment had assumed over-
whelming importance.
“The abolitionists had based
their argument on the inconclu-
sive nature of the statistics, and
beyond doubt they were entitled
to say that nowhere did those
statistics prove that capital
punishment was a unique de-
terrent. But it was in the nature
of things that they did not
know. It was the murders
which had not been committed
that mattered, and their number
could never be kept in the
statistics.
U.K. Murder Rate
“It remained that Britain had
the lowest murder-rate, and he
for one would hesitate to say
that capital punishment had
nothing to do with it.
“He did not believe that the
deterrent was universal. No
deterrent would deter the insane
or those who killed in moments
of blind rage or passion without
thought of the consequences.
There were some people who did
not count the cost to themselves.
“But murder was not a thing
that occurred in the human mind
only in moments of passion or
frenzy. A man was capable of
calculating the ’advantage to
himself of eliminating a par-
ticular person or accepting the
risk of killing in the course of a
particular enterprise. It was
here that the natural disinclina-
tion to take in cold blood the
risk of death might tip the
balance against murder.
“The man who contemplated
impr i s o nment contemplated
something that was known,
something that might go on for
a long time, but from which he
supposed he would eventually
emerge. But death was final and
unknown. There , could be no
serious doubt which prospect
was more likely to make a man
pause and consider whether the
risk was worth running.
Armed Criminals
“What was the position of the
armed criminal to be if capital
punishment were abolished? The
man going out to commit a
robbery with a long criminal
record behind him would know
that if he was caught he was
likely to be sentenced to 10 or
14 years’ preventive detention. If
he armed himself and killed
someone he would run the risk
of a somewhat longer period of
detention. He could not tell
how much longer; who was to
say? There would be a solid
advantage for him if he armed
himself.
“Faced with these advantages,
what would be the reactions of
the criminal classes with whom
they were concerned? He [the
Lord Chancellor] believed they
would arm themselves much
more extensively than at present.
“He knew of no country com-
parable to Britain which had
abolished capital punishment
and had unarmed police. The
arguments based on countries
with sparse populations or
armed police were not valid.
Unarmed police were part of
the British tradition, and he
would be most loth to see it
otherwise.”
Overseas Effects
After commenting on the im-
probability of a mistake being
made in the conviction and
hanging of a man accused of
murder, the Lord Chancellor
continued to the effect that “it
was not in Great Britain alone
that the Government were
responsible.”
“The bill directly affected us
here [Britain], but its enactment
could not fail to be felt in every
part of the British Empire. What
would be the effect in Kenya,
Malaya and Cyprus? He asked
their lordships to weigh that
question carefully before coming
to any conclusion. He believed
that a decision to abolish the
death-penalty for murder here
would have disastrous con-
sequences there.
“For any Government to
carry out their duty involved to
some extent a repressive side,
and at times things had to be
done which were unpopular with
many and severe towards some.
In the end it was a question of
balancing the severity of the
penalty against the interests of
the community.
“He was convinced that the
interest of the community
required the retention of the
death-penalty for murder. He
would be failing in his duty if
he did not repeat in unequivocal
terms that the Government con-
sidered this to be an unwise and
dangerous measure, whose pre-
sence on the statute-book would
be a disaster for the country and
a menace for its people.’’
Judge’s Comment
Another opponent of the bill,
Lord Oaksey, for many years
a trial judge, said that he “had
had the duty to preside at a
number of murder trials”:
“He was not convinced in the
least by the statistics that the
death-penalty was not a deter-
rent. It might be that some
people had enough animal
courage or religious belief not to
fear death. But was there any-
one who did not fear death with
disgrace ?
“The very case which the
abolitionists put forward seemed
to prove the deterrent effect of
New York “Herald Tribune”
"LET’S TAKE ANOTHER WHIRL AT IT”
the death-penalty. It was their
horror of death which made
them abolitionists. They said
that the infliction of death was
such a terrible thing that the
penalty must be abolished. That
showed the fear which a natural
man had of death, and particu-
larly of'death with disgrace.
“Anyone who looked at the
case for abolition and for the
death-penalty must be convinced,
as he had. been in the course of
many murder trials, that the
death-penalty was a great deter-
rent. All the facts pointed to
the view that those who really
knew the criminal population
and who came in touch with the
administration of the criminal
laws were practically all against
abolition, while those who were
farther away from it were largely
in favor.”
The Police
Speaking on the risk to which
police, prison warders and other
public servants would be sub-
jected by the abolition of capital
punishment, Lord Mancroft
said that “already they perform
a pretty thankless task and their
difficulties should not be
increased”:
“At present, one British
policeman was murdered, on the
average, every 2\ years. That
was one too many. Were
their Lordships really sure
that if capital punishment were
abolished, the number would not
be higher?
“If the bill were passed, among
those serving life-sentences
would be many more men with
a tendency to violence. Were
their lordships sure that there
would not then be a greater risk
of prison officers being subjected
to murderous assaults ? They
should think carefully before
allowing the police and prison
officers to be placed in greater
hazard.
“Commonsense surely sug-
gested that the death-penalty
was a unique deterrent? With
it in Great Britain we had the
lowest homicide rate in the
world. It was for those who
would abolish it to show that
one could do so without
endangering the peace and order
of the community.
“He [Lord Mancroft] believed
that capital punishment should
not be abolished unless there
was overwhelming public support
for the change, otherwise there
might well be a revulsion of
feeling which would insist on
the change being reversed. Public
opinion was not yet overwhelm-
ingly in favor of abolition.
Public opinion, unorganised, but
now more aware of the full im-
plications of this dreadfully diffi-
cult and very personal problem,
still seemed to be strongly against
abolition.”
Lord Goddard’s View
The Lord Chief Justice of
England (Lord Goddard) said
“his sentiments were more i'n
favor of the victims than they
were of the murderers. There
was a tendency nowadays, when
any matter of the criminal law
was being discussed, to think far
more of the criminal than of his
victim.
“Was this the time to remove
what rightly or wrongly the
police and the prison service
believed to be their main protec-
tion against attack? The police
were armed with short batons.
That was the only weapon they
had. He was sure that if this bill
was passed it would encourage
resignation from the police-
forces, and would make recruit-
ment more difficult.
“When the Criminal Justice
Act of 1947 was before Parlia-
ment, he [Lord Goddard]
prophesied that although the
only form of violence for which
whipping could be ordered was
robbery with violence, the mere
fact that whipping or any form
of corporal punishment had gone
out for ever would encourage
violence.
“Unfortunately, that prophecy
had been fulfilled. In 1947, the
number of persons convicted for
violence against the person was
2504, compared with 1583 in
1938. In 1948 the number had
risen to 3183. The following
year it was 3303, and there had
been a progressive rise in
violence ever since, so that in
1954 the number had reached
4584.
“He [Lord Goddard] agreed
that the presence or absence of
capital punishment would not
affect certain forms of murder.
It would not affect the man who
killed a young woman because,
as he put it, ‘lf I can’t have you,
no one else will have you.’ It
would have no effect, ex
hypothesi, on murders by
lunatics. He did not think it
would have much effect on wife-
murders.
“But he agreed entirely that
the greatest deterrent against
crime, naturally enough, was the
certainty or high probability of
detection and arrest. Why?
Because that must be followed
by conviction, and because con-
viction would lead to punish-
ment. He believed that the fear
of the rope was a very great
deterrent.
“Is the Copper Dead?”
“He had had a very striking
instance last year when three
men, two of whom had just got
out after a long sentence in Dart-
moor, armed themselves with
two revolvers—it was disturbing
how easily some of these men
seemed to be able to get
revolvers —and in a motor-car
went to a jewellers’ shop at
Earls Court station, which they
robbed at the point of the
revolver.
“The number of the car was
taken and there was a chase. A
young policeman, with the
greatest possible courage, tackled
these armed men when they
abandoned their car. One of the
men shot at him, but deliberately
aimed low, and the policeman
was badly wounded.
“That man, he was convinced,
fired low because he did not
want to murder the policeman,
for he knew what the conse-
quences would be. When
arrested two days afterwards he
asked the chief inspector who
arrested him: ‘Give us a break,
guv’nor. Is the copper dead?’
But for this man’s knowledge
that if he killed the policeman
the death-sentence would inevit-
ably follow, he did not believe
that young policeman would
have been alive today.
“Those instances [Lord God-
dard continued] make me say
with all the earnestness I can
command. ‘Do not gamble with
the lives of the police.’ I
believe it is gambling with the
lives of the police if this penalty
is taken away, and it must be a
gamble because it can only be a
matter of opinion whether the
abolition of the death-sentence
will increase murders or not, or
whether it will encourage people
who find themselves in a tight
corner to shoot.
“How is it possible for the
law to be a deterrent, or there
to be a deterrence in arrest,
unless there is an element of
retribution also in the punish-
ment that has to be given? Why


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN MacLELLAN late of C/oConiston
Post Office Wollongong New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE BURCH-
MORE MacLELLAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3379 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion for three years and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 6th October 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. S. BOULTON, LANE,
REX & CO., Solicitors, of 12 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ficUtJl Ml
Future
k
i
In days when the speed of living makes it
difficult to pause and appreciate the simple values,
I think it is worth recalling that agriculture is the
first occupation of Man.
To live we have to eat, and to eat we have to
produce what only the soil can give. It was ever so.
Look into the inscriptions of old Egypt and
you will see symbols of the harvests that flourished
along the Nile. Pursue the history of the Roman
Empire and you will find “agricola,” the farmer,
honoured in its scrolls.
Glance into the arenas of Ancient Greece
and you will see heroes and athletes crowned with
a garland sign of the fruitfulness of the land: leaves
gathered from groves of the olive.
And what has agriculture always been but
the art of using the soil? It is progressive. In
Australia, where we are far past the time when
only the choicest lands were selected, it now implies
the scientific improvement of every square mile
that will grow a crop or carry a beast.
We know of the great advances made in
transforming land by the addition of trace elements
—advances in which one authority credits Australia
with leading the world.
Partner to ttyat is the widespread establishment
of sown pastures on the enlivened soil. Sir lan
Clunies Ross, Chairman of the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation,
was telling recently of the increase in Australia’s
sown pasture, in seven years, from 11 million to
26 million acres. He said we could look forward
to the time when 100 million acres of grazing lands
would be under sown pasture.
In the name of all that we have achieved in
the past, or hope to achieve in the future, we should
try to hasten that day. For the soil, the crops, the
grasses, the stock —these are the source of
Australia’s richness; and in nourishing them we
nourish ourselves.
is it wrong for a civilised
country to say that they will
avenge criminal conduct? I
believe it is a sign of a healthy
conscience in a country if they
are determined to avenge crime,
and once they begin to palter
with that sentiment then crime
will increase.”
After saying that there are
“many amendments which might
be made to the law relating to
provocation, and to malice,”
Lord Goddard concluded:
“The House could be assured
that there was no murderer ever
hanged if there was any matter
of mitigation to be found at all.
It was examined not only by the
Home Secretary, but by his
trusted advisers. The result was
that the only people who were
hanged were those who were
guilty of cruel and wicked
murders. He still believed that
where a man murdered another
it was the supreme crime and
should pay. the supreme penalty.”
Ships of Tomorrow
Writing in London “Financial
Times” on changing trends in
ship-design, A. C. Hardy, B.Sc.,
M.1.N.A., notes that cargo-ships
of 83,900 tons deadweight are
now under construction in Japan
for the U.S. and that even larger
vessels —up to 100,000 tons—are
mooted.
To, justify their costs these
ships will have to spend as little
time as possible in port, and
Hardy comments that this will be
achieved by such things as a
“push-button hatch-system” by
which the whole of an 80ft.-long
hold will be opened for loading
and discharged in a matter of
minutes by pressing a button on
the bridge—“formerly, to open
or close such a hatch could
occupy anything from 20 to 45
minutes, according to the skill of
the crew.”
Looking over the engine-room,
Hardy notes that “steam-
propulsion in shipboard was at
one time the most voracious
employer of human beings”:
“Today a modern steam-plant,
with boilers operating at over
5001 b. pressure and with turbines
of up to, say, 12,000 h.p. on a
single shaft, could be . run,
statutory considerations apart,
by four people at the most.
“The next probable develop-
ment in marine engineering is the
employment of a high-speed,
1500 r.p.m., small, lightweight
oil-engine driving a screw or
screws either through a reduc-
tion-reverse-gearbox or by
means of a controllable-pitch
propeller which can be operated
from the bridge.
“While the ship is manoeuvring,
the main propulsive unit can be
set to run at a given number of
revolutions per minute, while the
direction ahead or astern, and
the speed of the ship, can be
controlled merely according to
the angle of pitch of the
propeller-blades.
“Such machinery is envisaged
as the marine equivalent of the
power-plant of a transport-
aircraft, which is required to
run from take-off to touch-down.
“As the ship evolves, less and
less do those responsible for its
operation need to bother about
what goes on ‘underneath the
bonnet.’ Nor are they able to
do so. The ship’s bridge today
is, for example, a picture of
intricacy, with its radar-sets,
highly advanced radio-equip-
ment, depth-sounders, fire-
detecting equipment, and many
other devices, some depending
upon electronics for operation.
“The bridges of most modern
ships are becoming so ‘hung’
with instruments; that a ‘tidying-
up’ process is now overdue. So,
in designs now on the drawing-
board and in several recently
completed in Germany, all the
bits and pieces are being
gathered together into one big
‘console’ where the helmsman or
the officer of the watch sits at a
seat like an airplane-pilot.
“There he has his gyro-
compass, his engine-room con-
trols, pressure - gauges and
temperature-gauges concerning
the main machinery, rudder-
control, radar, loudspeaker
system for the ship and radio-
telephone.”
Conscription in
Germany
London “Economist” view of
the West German attitude to
conscription:
“Up to now the Bonn Govern-
ment has not had much in the
way of reasons to offer for con-
scription, beyond the fact that
its Nato allies expect it, and
that they concluded the Paris
treaties in that expectation. But
indications have appeared that
the Nato allies are beginning
to reconsider for themselves
whether they must necessarily
fendure conscription much longer
in their own countries. On the
one hand the perhaps treacherous
sensation of reduced tension
with the Russians, and on the
other the still undigested lessons
of nuclear warfare, have set new
trains of thought working.
“If Britain may bring con-
scription to an end, is Germany
inexorably obliged to introduce
it at the same moment? Or can
the German defence-problem,
too, be reconsidered in the light
of new factors?
“It is too much to expect of
the West Germans that they
should consider their defence
simply as a Nato problem. If
they are to raise an Army they
will want it to serve not only the
West in general, but the German
Federal Republic in particular.
They are still keenly aware that
there was a time when their
country was thought of, un-
avoidably, as little better than
a field of manoeuvre for a
delaying action; this will not
do for them now.
“They will think, too, of the
effect on their peculiar relation-
ship with the hostile German
State on their eastern border: of
the likelihood that conscription
in the West would be followed
by conscription in the East, and
of the possibility that a law of
compulsory military service may
push both States nearer to a
concept, which they have so far
avoided, of two German
nationalities.
“Even the most strictly
Western school among them,
having observed the experiments
in new-model organisation which
the American, British and French
Armies have been conducting
on their soil, asks whether the
12 divisions of 1950 are exactly
what will be needed in 1960;
and one question leads to
another.
“Necessary or not, conscrip-
tion is not going to be popular
in Germany ; and the indications
are growing that it may furnish
the major issue at the general
election, which is only 14 months
away.”
Iceland
Outlining the events which
have led to Iceland’s request for
the removal of American troops,
B. Fairfax Northcott points out
in London “Time and Tide”
that, to a country entirely depen-
dent on fishing, overfishing by
other nations near her [lceland’s]
coasts spelt ruin”:
“She made several fruitless
attempts to get international
agreement to limit it, then
suddenly passed an arbitrary
law in 1948, extending her terri-
torial waters to four miles and
forbidding all fishing within
them.
“Diplomatic discussions with
Britain, the nation chiefly hit
by the new law, followed. The
Fishing Law contains several
let-out clauses, so the chances
of a compromise being reached
were good had not private
business - interests intervened.
British trawler-owners imposed
a boycott on Icelandic catches at
all United Kingdom ports, which
brought diplomatic negotiations
to an abrupt end.
“From then on events moved
in an increasingly unsatisfac-
tory direction. Iceland soon
had large stores of unsaleable
fish and, when her position had
become desperate, the Soviet
Union, which till then had
refused to make any trade-agree-
ments with her, offered to buy
all the fish she had sold pre-
viously to Britain. Russia
insisted on paying for the fish in
goods only and chose oil as the
purchase commodity, thus gain-
ing control of oil-supplies to the
island, which are needed for all
her land, sea and air transport.
“Russia quickly followed-up
her advantage by clever psycho-
logical tactics. Icelanders have
a magnificent cultural heritage,
and they were flattered by being
sent only the best Russian per-
formers. Skilful propaganda
stressed the Soviet ‘new look’
and the easing of the Cold War.
Britain obligingly allowed the
fishing dispute to drag on
unsettled, and Russia lost no
opportunity to fan the resulting
bitterness against us. Thus, with
a minimum of expenditure,
Icelanders’ sympathies for their
Western friends were blunted,
while their fears of attack from
the East were lulled.
“During the years that
followed, the British Govern-
ment was reluctant to intervene
in what it regarded as a traders’
quarrel and the trawler-owners
also had their hands tied, for
their action had been forced on
them by their crews. These
crews are paid a small basic
wage, the rest of their earnings
being on commission, losses as
well as profits being included.
The new coastal limits mean
that in stormy weather, which is
very frequent off Iceland, fishing
must stop, catches deteriorate -
and the fishermen suffer serious
losses.
“The Icelandic Government
also had problems. The new
trade with Russia soon became
so profitable that any Govern-
ment that accepted less than
complete victory in the fishing-
dispute would probably have
fallen. As the Communist
party was the only one that had
consistently opposed Britain,
the probability was that its views
on the equally important issue
of the defence of the island
would then prevail.
“Early in 1955 Iceland’s
Communists made a bid for
power by force. They staged
a general strike, which Moscow
supported by shutting off oil-
supplies, bringing all transport
to a standstill. The strike failed
in its main purpose —the fall
of the Government and the evic-
tion of American troops —but
damaged the country econo-
mically.
“Now it appears that peace-
able means will ensure the
triumph of the long-standing
Communist ambition to strip the
island of its defences. The
Progressive and Labor parties,
which supported the Govern-
ment’s invitation to the Ameri-
cans to install a military base
in the island, now support the
Communist view and have a
clear majority to carry it out.
“The deplorable dispute that
opened the door so fortuitously
to the Soviet Union is now well
on the way to settlement, largely
in favor of Iceland; but, in the
critically important field of
world defence-strategy, enor-
mous harm has been done, and
it will take all the diplomatic
genius the West possesses to
regain lost esteem and goodwill
in an island that holds the key
to the North Atlantic lifeline on
which our safety depends.”
Suggesting what might be
done to retrieve something from
a bad situation, London “Econo-
mist” comments that “Unfor-
tunately, if naturally, the x first
American reaction to the elec-
tion has been a strengthening of
the tendency to cut clear of
unreliable allies.
“Yet it seems worth while
trying to save Iceland from
dropping out of Nato for all
effective purposes. It may be
possible to arrange for the three
radar-stations on the island to
be manned by civilian tech-
nicians. This would plug the
gaping hole that would other-
wise by punched in the North
American early-warning screen,
while recognising the Icelanders’
dislike of seeing too many
foreign uniforms.
“But the Keflavik airfield can
hardly be kept in full readiness
by civilians, and Iceland has no
armed forces of its own. The
Americans have now to discover
on what terms, if any, the Ice-
landers might allow a skeleton
staff to be stationed there.
“They will almost certainly
have to withdraw a good many
men, and some of the 90
fighters reported to be at
Keflavik. They might also
promise not to take labor away
from the fishing-industry to
work at the base, and to waive
their forces’ claim to exemption
from Customs regulations. It is
to be hoped that their * first
understandable indignation will
give way to a readiness to
negotiate for what can still be
retained.”
Various Voices
George F. Kerman (former
U.S. Ambassador to Moscow)’.
“I do not mean to belittle what
has occurred [in Russia], but we
would be ill-advised to ignore the
very real differences of historical
experience and tradition and
outlook that still divide us from
the Russian people, and would
continue to divide even under
the most liberal conceivable
Russian regime.’’
Dr. Adenauer: “No Soviet
smile, however enticing, should
tempt us to relax in our common
efforts before the Soviet side has
shown concrete proof of a
change of mind —especially with
regard to its attitude to other
nations oppressed by it.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept,,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12 /6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
.OM-
srs
s>o*
M-M** 1 *
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
657. TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE: GJ>O. Box tSSf.
SYONEY • G.P.O. Sox 4058. MaSOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 7581 C. BRISBANE'
• G.P.O. Box 58$. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Adams smiled. It amused him,
this blowing-out of the rotary-
converters. The attendant, look-
ing like a spaceman with his
boiler-suit clipped close at ankles
and wrists, and goggles,
respirator and peaked cap mask-
ing face and hair, clambered
all over the frame and down into
the pit to poke the nozzle of
his compressed-air hose into
slots, coils and cavities, sending
up a great cloud of dust that
drifted along the machine-floor
to settle impartially on the other
eleven rotary-converters and
their transformers and switch-
gear.
Adams took the cleaning stuff
from his overalls-pocket and
bent to put it on the flattened
centre. As his fingers touched
metal he stopped suddenly still,
crouched frozen, as if he were
listening. Then, slowly, holding
his breath, he pressed his palm
hard against the transformer-top.
A spasm of fear shot through
him: the transformer was vibrat-
ing, and warm. God! he
thought; it’s alive. Slowly, as if
stricken with paralysis, he
turned his head towards the
rotary-converter. He stared at it
until he felt giddy, without being
able to decide whether or not
the rotor was turning. He
thought of the indicator-lights
on the panels . . . But no ; the
DC. panel was hidden by the
stator, and the A.C. panel
showed a rear-view of oil-switch
tank and copper risers,
Hie turned his head slowly
back, looked sideways, as if in
stealth, at the transformer-
connections: on his left, the
high-tension, a single half-inch
copper rod; on his right, the
low-tension, four six-by-quarter
copper bars. They were frighten-
ingly close: he could reach out
and touch either without moving
his feet. He felt a compulsion to
do so; the copper looked cold
and dead; it drew .him, as
gravity pulls at a man perched
high on a narrow foothold. He
fought the impulse down, and
forced himself to think. If he
came in contact with the low-
tension, it probably would not
kill him, but the shock could
jerk him off-balance, onto the
high-tension or down to the
concrete floor. The high-tension
would burn him up, strike at
him like a snake with white-hot
fangs, even before he touched
it, leaping across the gap between
metal and flesh at the speed of
light.
"OE began to shake. He was
frightened most by the fact
that the danger was from some-
thing inanimate. Against man
or beast he could argue or fight;
against something without life
argument was useless.
He thought of shouting for
help. He lifted his head and
looked about the station. At the
far end of the operating-floor
Tommy Ryan was walking up
and down in front of the control-
panels, and on the machine-
floor Dick Terry and Sandy
McWatt were overhauling a
D.C. circuit-breaker. No, it was
useless, not worth trying ; against
the noise of the machines a man
would have to be within thirty
feet or so to hear him ; and,
perched on top of the trans-
former, he could stay for a long
time without anyone coming
that close—unless they came
purposely to look for him.
He must think carefully what
to do ; if he remained as he was
for much longer he would get
cramp. At the thought of
moving he cursed himself for
not having gone back for his
sandshoes. Well ... he could
turn, then go forwards to the
ladder, and turn again to
descend; or he could shuffle
backwards, keeping his hands on
the transformer-top until he was
near enough to the ladder to
reach behind him and grasp it.
Yes, that would be better; not
having to turn, there would be
less chance of slipping.
He moved one foot back a
little, then slid his hand after it,
his eyes fixed all the time on the
high-tension rod. He paused for
a few seconds, the weight of his
body taken on his back foot.
The sweat was pricking on his
forehead, but he felt better,
being further from the live
copper. He bent his head again,
and peered under his arm at
the top of the ladder. Not close
enough yet.
He moved the other foot back,
then slowly brought both hands
close under him. He sat up
carefully; then, keeping one
hand on the transformer for
balance, reached behind him
with the other. He groped
blindly,., moving his hand from
side to side. The ends of his
fingers scraped against wood.
He turned his head, saw over
his shoulder the top of the
ladder-leg, and grabbed at it.
As his fingers closed on it his
body leant backwards past the
point of balance ; he felt himself
falling. With a grip strengthened
by desperation he clung to the
ladder-leg with one hand, while
with the other he searched
frantically for the second leg. He
found it, held himself still for a
moment, panting with fright and
exertion, then got his feet onto
the rungs and descended, his
legs feeling as weak as if he
had run five miles.
When he stood at last safe on
the concrete floor he could feel
the sweat running in cold lines
down his body and legs.
AS he reached the operating-
floor he saw Jackson go into
the battery-room at the far end
of the control-panels. He strode
after him, his face set, looking
neither to right nor left.
The junior operator at the
log-desk watched, curious, as he
followed Jackson into the
battery-room and pulled the
sliding-door shut after him.
Jackson was bent over a cell,
reading a hydrometer. Adams
walked quietly up behind him.
With an effort he forced himself
to speak calmly.
“Which trannie did you say,
Keith?”
Jackson swung round and
stared, frowning.
“Good God, man, haven’t you
started yet? What’ve you been
doing?—Number-five, and for
goodness’ sake get moving.”
Adams’s face set; his angry
eyes pierced Jackson’s. He
ground out through shut teeth:
“Number-five’s alive.”
Jackson’s face went white. He
stared at Adams wildly, put a
hand on the cell to steady him-
self. He shut his eyes, his tongue
came out and wet his lips.
“God!” His voice was a
whisper. “You’re right.”
“The superintendent will be
interested to hear about it,”
Adams said.
Jackson winced. “Bob,” he
pleaded, “it’d be the sack. I
couldn’t get a job in any other
station ...”
Adams’s eyes narrowed. “Very
worried about your future,
aren’t you? What about me?
What if I’d been killed? I can
just imagine it: ‘Poor, silly old
Bob. I told him to clean number-
six trannie, and what’s the
stupid cow do —he gets up on
number-five. Poor old cow—
just made one mistake too
many! ’ ”
“No, Bob, no I wouldn’t”
Adams looked at him scorn-
fully. “Ah, don’t give us the
sob-stuff. You’d”
'THEY both swung round as
-*• the door slid back. The
superintendent came in, and shut
the door behind him*
Adams opened his mouth to
speak ; to his surprise, the words
wouldn’t come. He looked at
Jackson; and there suddenly
swept over him a rush of com-
passion: he saw Jackson white-
faced, cocksureness gone, just a
worried boy waiting dumbly for
the words that would mean his
ruin. There came into Adams’s
mind the startling thought that
this could have been his own
son.
He turned to Jackson.
“Number-six, you asked me to
clean, did you, Keith?”
Jackson’s head jerked round;
he stared at Adams, nodded
stupidly two or three times, then
managed to say, “Yes, that’s
right; number-six.”
Adams walked to the door
and went out without looking
round.
The superintendent watched
him go, then turned to Jackson,
puzzled. “Perhaps,” he said,
gently probing, “I made a
mistake in not getting rid of
Adams as you advised.”
Jackson looked up, startled.
He shook his head vehemently.
“Oh, no. Adams is all right. We
can all make mistakes.”
These glimpses—like watch-
ing the Turks strolling round,
and letting that other old Turk
come out daily and hang out the
washing ! —these minor notes
can be misleading. Nothing calm
or matter-of-fact-routine about
Lone Pine:
The charge at Lone Pine was a
particularly desperate adventure,
since it was to take place in broad
daylight on a narrow front of only
220 yards where the Turks could con-
centrate their fire. Yet the soldiers
believed in the plan. They believed
it so well and were so eager to fight
that guards had to be posted in the
rear trenches to prevent unauthorised
men from attempting to take part.
This was a wise precaution, because
when the fighting did begin it created
a frenzy that was not far from mad-
ness, and men were to be seen offer-
ing sums of five pounds or more for
the privilege of getting a place in the
front line.
Not a soul but felt a fever of
the mad . . . But what could you
do with a fiver on Gallip.? . . .
Anyway, that riot (the right
word for it) made the Legend
fairly safe. Not finally secure,
though. It needed the perfect
exit, the final miraculous getting-
away, to do that. Had anything
gone wrong then, when the gods
held it at last in that hairbreadth
balance, there would have been,
there could have been, no
Legend. A shambles, then, and
there’d have been nothing but an
unhappy, fruitless adventure with
a sordid ending. It was the one
occasion when nothing could be
permitted to go wrong, and
when nothing went wrong:
In the second week of December
the first stage of the evacuation
began. Each evening after dusk
flotillas of barges and small boats
crept into Anzac Cove and Suvla
Bay The men walked silently
down from the trenches, their boots
wrapped in sacking, their footfall
deadened by layers of blankets laid
along the piers. In the morning the
little fleet had vanished and all was
normal again. Men and stores were
being disembarked in the usual way,
the same mule-teams laden with boxes
were toiling up to the front from the
beaches, and there was no way for
the Turks to know that the boxes on
the mules were empty or that the
disembarking men were a special
group whose job was to go aboard
the boats each night in the darkness
and then return ostentatiously to the
shore in the morning.
You might wonder, perhaps-
having the picture so admirably
done by Moorehead of all that
went before it—just where
Nemesis got herself off to on
those still nights. But, then, she
was Night’s daughter . . . that
could be the answer. Maybe
Night packed her off to amuse
herself throwing pebbles at young
Winston in London or Enver in
Turkey.
At all events she wasn’t there
for those three or four final
muffled nights. But within
sixteen hours of the last man
coming off she was back, and
savage. She hit the old Gallip.
shores with e\ rything she had.
She raged up and down the
unoffending coast, biting bits out
of the beaches, hair streaming in
the wind, lashing the makeshift
jetties to matchwood, clawing
and tearing at the cliffs.
And nobody there but the
deserted place, and the Turks, no
doubt finding it hard to believe
it was all over. Perhaps feeling
a little lonely . . .
“Good eating?"


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA—No. 402 of 1966.
BETWEEN PATRICIA ISABEL SLAPE
Plaintiff and LESLIE JOHN SLAPE De-
fendant.—NOTlCE IS HEREBY GIVEN
to LESLIE JOHN SLAPE whose last
known address was formerly of Marino in
the State of South Australia but whose
present address is unknown that PAT-
RICIA ISABEL SLAPE has issued a Writ
in the Supreme Court of South Australia
in an action in which PATRICIA ISABEL
SLAPE claims an order for Divorce from
her husband on the ground of his desertion
and in such action his wife intends to ask
for an order claiming costs and custody
of the child of the marriage and if
LESLIE JOHN SLAPE desires to be heard
in opposition to the claim for any of
such orders he must file an appearance in
the office of the Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia within 30 days
of the publication of this advertisement
otherwise orders may be made against
him in his absence. —BRIGHT & Mc-
LEOD, Ware Chambers. 112 King Wil-
liam Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 4763 of 1955.
TO JOHN LEONARD McARDLE late of
Cumnock.—TAKE NOTICE that ISABEL
McARDLE has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 4763 of 1955 on the grounds that
you have during three (3) years and up-
wards been an habitual drunkard and
have habitually left her without the
means of support If you desire to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Eighth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-six (1956) You may obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. L. D. SERISIER & CO., Soli-
citors, 193-195 Summer Street, Orange;
or their Town Agents, MESSRS. PETER
G. KEARNEY & CO., of 60 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of JOHN ALBERT NELSON
SHARPE (Description: sft. Bin., 12-13
stone, complexion and hair dark, eyes
brown), formerly of “Linslade,” Kings-
vale, New South Wales, Orehardist, a re-
turned soldier of both World Wars, last
heard of in Brisbane, Queensland, at the
time of his discharge from the Army in
October, 1945, communicate with J. R.
NIALL HOGAN. Solicitor, Lynch Street,
Young, New South Wales?
•Phenovh’ Brand of PhenofMazlim
PHENOVIS
.* . m
and
Immature
SHEEP
m
both
Mature
1
■
‘Phenovis’ is effective because:
(1) It is made from extremely fine ground Phenothiazine.
(2) It effectively controls the major intestinal worms found in sheep.
(3) Worm free sheep produce 25% more wool than worm infested sheep.
(4) Helps sheep resist infestation.
(5) Helps keep pastures contamination free.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE quality
‘PHENOVIS*
LIQUID OR POWDER
ORDER now from your Supplier
735.PHE.51X.2591
jMEJENHBLE HlllMjL
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
Ter
PROTECTION PRODUCT
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALANdTjJ
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Robert Blatch-
ford's God and My Neighbor.-- -6360.
To buy The Golden Warrior, a
book based on the story of Edward
the Confessor and Harold, up to the
Norman Conquest. —6361.
To buy or exchange a coffee-
grinder —the square Box-type like
our grandmothers used. —63 6^.
To buy Merino, Past, Present and
Future, by Austin.—6364.
To buy Savage Civilisation, by Tom
Harrisson. —6365.
To buy Voles, Mice and Lemmings,
by Elton (Oxford, 1942); Handbook
of Trees for Australian Foresters, by
Ewart; Beyond Tahiti, by F. Fishman
(Melb., 1949); Sydney in 1848, by J.
Fowles (Syd., 1848); A letter on the
effects of transportation and cm the
moral condition of the colony , by
H P. Fry (Hobart 1847); Culture
methods for invertebrate animals, by
Galtsoff and others (N.Y., 1937), or
later edition. —6366.
Information Sought
How to mend concrete that has
cracked through being trodden on
before it was properly set?
If the cement is cracked and
crumbled, it must be chipped out
cleanly and reset with new cement ot
the same strength. Plenty of water
should be used on the surrounding dry
parts, so that the new work is not
dried out too quickly. If the cement
floor is only dented it can probably be
filled and smoothed over. It should
be well damped, and scraped with a
sharp tool to give a roughish surface
to hold the new filling. The repairs
should be made to resemble the
original floor, and should be made as
strong as possible.
* * * *
In reading lately Balzac’s “Eugenie
Grandet’’ I noted a reference to
tragedies “more cruel than any
endured by the members of the noble
house of Atreus.” What is the legend
of Atreus ?
This long, complicated and bloody
legend is reputed to be the most
horrible in Greek mythology. No
mention of it is found in Homer, but
it afforded plenty of material for
Sophocles and Euripides and the other
tragic poets of ancient Greece. Son of
Pelops and Hippodamia and brother
of Thyestes, Atreus and his brother
murder a step-brother and fly to
Mycenae, where Atreus becomes King.
Thyestes then seducing Aerope, wile
of Atreus, he is driven from the
country; but, planning revenge, sends
Pleisthenes (son of Atreus by his first
wife) to kill his father. Atreus, how-
ever, slays his son without recognising
him. He then in turn plans
revenge, and kills the two sons of
Thyestes. Later Atreus marries
Pelopia, daughter of Thyestes, without
knowing who she is, and adopts
iEgisthus, her son by her father.
Atreus sends lEgisthus to slay his
father, who has been imprisoned, but
Thyestes recognises him by the sword
he carries; they then plot to kill
Atreus do so, and seize the throne.
* * * *
S Method of making cement
s? (2) Where can 1 get designs
for brick houses (concrete bricks ) ?
(3) Approximate cost of a concrete-
brick house ? (4) Names of any books
of reference?
(1) Process too long to describe
fully here. A strong cement mixture,
containing shingle, rock or other
aggregate which may be at hand, or
the mixture alone, is filled into
moulds, allowed to set, and stacked to
dry before using. Many commercial
types of moulds are on the market.
It is important that bricks be well
made and properly seasoned, other-
wise they may crumble or become
damp-logged. This kind of house is
highly subject to damp through its
walls and from the ground, and this
must be taken into consideration. (2)
Plans should be obtained from an
architect or a good building-firm,
builders advertise plans for sale in
most country weeklies. Those pre-
pared for common bricks could prob-
ably be adapted by a man with some
knowledge of building. (3) Impossible
to give a comparative figure; much
depends on the cost of getting
materials on to the spot, and the
amount of time and labor which may
have to be spent. It could turn out
to be a very costly job in the end,
and would certainly absorb a long
time. In metropolitan Sydney, a very
small fibro house of about seven
squares is estimated to cost about
£3OO per 100 sq.-ft.; larger houses
come out relatively a little cheaper,
as the cost of the expensive p.c.
items in kitchen, bathroom and
laundry are the same as for smaller
ones. (4) Write to Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, for a list of textbooks,
explaining your requirements. Con-
sult your shire or council building-
ofiicers before beginning to build.
* * * *
Brief outline of nutritional value
and physiological function of vitamins,
in particular vitamin-E ?
Vitamins, says Everyman s Encyclo-
pedia, are accessory food-factors
essential to growth, of which some 15
are known. Vitamin-A, the fat-
soluble vitamin, occurs in codliver-oil,
eggs, liver, green vegetables, fresh
milk, cheese, butter, etc.; deficiency
results in stunted growth and night-
blindness. B, anti-neuritic vitamin, is
contained in yeast, legumes, unmilled
cereals, eggs, milk, nuts, green and,
root vegetables, etc. C, anti-scorbutic
water-soluble vitamin, is in fresh
lemons and orange-juice, tomatoes,
green salad, rhubarb, radishes, etc.
(Boiling and drying greatly reduce the
efficiency of vitamin-C.) D, anti-
rachitic" vitamin, present in codliver-
oil, germinating grain, fresh
vegetables, butter, milk, etc.; prevents
rickets and osteomalacia (bone-soften-
ing disease which causes deformity).
E, anti-sterility vitamin, in wheat and
other cereals, yolk of eggs, fresh
vegetables, lean meat, liver and milk.
It is very stable and has been proved
to prevent sterility in both sexes, is
essential to milk-producing in the
woman, and promotes the use of salts
of iron. The following foods, says
Everyman’s, are without vitamins,
unless they are deliberately added—
tinned, salted or potted meats, meat-
extracts, white fish, white flour, white
cornflower, polished rice, pearl-barley,
tapiotfa, sago, vegetable-margarine,
lard, olive-oil, tea, coffee, cocoa,
sugar, jam.
Brief Answers
C.R.: Qantas in May, 1954, took
over the air-services between Australia
and North America previously oper-
ated by British Commonwealth Pacific
Airlines (8.C.P.A.). This was one
of several airline changes announced
on March 16, 1954, by a joint state-
ment of the U.K., Australian and N.Z.
Governments. Qantas and British
Overseas Airways Corporation
(8.0.A.C.) now operate in parallel
partnership on the “Kangaroo” route
(Australia to England). The Qantas
services to the U.S.A. and Canada
connect with 8.0.A.C. at San
Francisco... .A.E.A.: (1) The Child
Endowment Act was introduced into
Federal Parliament on Mar. 27, 1941,
and passed on April 3. It came into
operation from July 1, 1941. (2) Mr.
Harold Holt, then Minister for Labor
and Social Services, who introduced
the legislation, stated in the course of
his speech that payments would be
made to mothers, but did not specify
in any way how the money should be
spent. (3) There were earlier
endowment schemes, such as the Com-
monwealth Public Service Scheme, the
first such system instituted in Aus-
tralia (it began Nov. 1, 1920). In
N.S.W. a scheme operated from July
23, 1927, under the N.S.W. Family
Endowment Act 1927. They were
suspended after the introduction of
the Federal Government’s child-
endowment scheme....J.N.B.: (1)
Henry Kendall was born on April 18,
1839, at Kirmington, near Milton
(N.S.W.), and died in Sydney on
Aug. 1, 1882. Some of his best
poems are “September in Australia,”
“Orara,” “Rose Lorraine,” “After
Many Year s,” “Cooranbean,”
“Mooni,” “A Death in the Bush,”
“On a Street,” “To a Mountain.”
(2) An outline of his career, with a
list of his books of poetry, may be
found in Australian Literature, by
Morris and Macartney. (3) The
Bulletin does not, as a rule, either
invite or requisition its feature
articles; it does not detail a writer a
specific subject, but merely selects the
pick of submitted articles. Still, it
will keep in mind your wisfy that it
print an account in full of the life
and works of Kendall... .F.M.8.: (1)
Write Queensland Department ot
Agriculture, Brisbane. (2) “Man on
the Land” contributions, too, are
rarely solicited on specific matters;
they are all written by practical land-
men or specialist scientific workers—
which makes it the most useful possible
“land” page. It is not The Bulletin s
practice to assign a staff-writer to
write on, say—the subject you men-
tion —avocado-pears. (But it might
well be that an article on avocados
could come in and be published any
time.)....Bad.: During 1931 Federal
Labor split into several factions.
Lyons, Fenton and a few others lett
the party altogether; but it was
Beasley, Ward and the three or four
other N.S.W. members forming the
“Lang group” who, on withdrawing
their support, brought down the
Scullin Ministry. Labor was over-
whelmingly defeated at the elections
of Dec. 19, 1931, and the Lyons
U.A.P. Government took office
T.J.H.: Isaac Kaufman Funk (1839-
1912), American author and publisher,
began a publishing business in 1876,
to be joined a couple of years later
by A. W. Wagnalls, the firm being
known since 1890 as Funk and
Wagnalls Company. It publishes,
among other books and papers. Funk
and Wagnalls’ Standard Dictionary.
..F.R.: (1) It was in the reign ol
Charles II that Thomas Blood, com-
monly styled Colonel Blood (c. 1628-
1680), almost succeeded in thieving
the Crown jewels from the Tower ol
London. (2) The Bulletin has gener-
ally had an office or a representative
in London. In World War II its
office was twice hit during air-raids.
B.K.: N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture leaflets “Getting Started
in Poultryfarming” and “Table
Poultry” have been forwarded
H.M.R.: These two firms would be
able to repair the lighter and supply
parts for it —K.S. Pty., Ltd., 92 Pitt-
street, and H. H. Halls, Ltd., 50 York-
street —both Sydney E.T.: You
should get £5 if the calf was weaned
from the mother H.J.8.: You
would find all the information on
prehistoric forms of life in Aus-
tralia in Ancient Australia, by Charles
F. Laseron (published by Angus and
Robertson, 1954)... .A.K.M.: In six
generations of Bachs there were 57
professional musicians of repute, ol
whom 29 were really noted. Besides
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750),
the ones most noted as composers are
Johann Sebastian’s third son, Karl
Philipp Emanuel (1714-88), composing
mainly—about 200 pieces in all—for
the clavier, and the eldest son ol
Johann Sebastian, Wilhelm Friede-
mann (1710-84), who wrote fugues and
polonaises....L.S.: The population
of Australia at Dec. 31, 1918, was
5,081,679 (2,516,442 males and
2,565,237 females). The figures do
not include Australian soldiers still
then overseas. The figures are from
the Commonwealth Official Year-book
No. 14....N.5.: (1) Unable to give
a ruling, as there is no general agree-
ment on the point. (2) Stendhal s
Le Rouge et le Noir (The Red and the
Black ) has been issued as a Penguin.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.N.: Too many fairies P.L.:
No buns for the bunyip W.W.:
Ah, love . . . love . . , love . . .
Bother 10ve!... .8.L.: “Ode to a
Meat Pie” should be taken back to
the shop where you got it Q-L.'-
“On the Nose” is G.V.K.: ‘lt is
seldom, of late, that I have taken up
my plume.” And even now we re not
going to give you a fly with it
JG.: What on earth do you mean
by “Ratheless the nether mountain
shows Immitigable earns of snows”?
T.N.: We shall print the pith of
the matter: —
[Stories* feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
ON THE FARM
On the farm we have an old rattle-trap,
That once was a motor-car,
Its windscreen is broken, its mudguards
flap, , ,
And it’s garaged ’neath moon and star.
Its tyres are perished and nearly done,
Its pistons are slapping bad,
And it’s standing there in the blazing
sun,
A sight that would make one sad.
Eighteen-pounds-five we pay each year,
For the registration fee,
While petrol we find is much too dear,
At the cost of four-and-three,
But it gave good service when, once a
week,
To the distant store we’d go,
O’er the rutty road, down to Rocky Creek,
Through winter’s rain or snow.
So we’ll stand it down ’neath the stock-
yard gums,
To rust with the summer rain,
At rest ’neath the boughs where the wild
bees hum,
’Till the good years come again;
And when provision-day comes next week,
We’ll try for an early start,
And rattle away towards Rocky Creek
In our humble old horse and cart.
U.V.: Show it to Milly. It’s
only fair she should be warned
I.I.: “May 1 trespass upon your
patience with a small epic that
occurred to me?” Trespassers with
epics are prosecuted O.N .D.:
“Rum” very rum V.V.: Why do
you say “Nature’s bounty” when
you mean rain? ... .B.O.O.: And as
for Old Sol we pensioned him off
fifty years ago... .H.G.H.: w-e
liked the covering-letter; and the
design on the postage-stamp; and
your handwriting Y.T.: “He rose
with awful eyne a-glowing.” And
well he might; he knew where he was
going... .P.F.: A “sensible, con-
structive criticism”? Well, have you
thought of glueing it? Benny:
Not a penny, Benny Q.R.: The
mighty storm-tossed billows heave and
splasheth.” We know that storms at
sea are a compulsory subject lor
poetry; but really you’re a bit wet.
G.E.R.: Come in and roar:
POETIC? JUSTICE
fit was recently stated over the midday
news that some publicans would have to
sell their hotels after the winter because
the working man did not have enough
money to spend in them.] s'
Listen to Hoteliers howl!
“We’ll have to sell our pubs”
Because the working man
Is short of dough
To spend on alcoholic suds.
May you grovel in the gutters
You obese cringing slobs
Before the working man
Is rich enough
To save you from taking jobs.
U.V.D.: Can we take it? Yes;
but never far enough away,...
S.T.W.: There is a perceptible
glimmer of promise in the comma at
the end of the 14th stanza G.G.:
Don’t be rude... .A.A.N.: More like
hopscotch than Hopkins... L A.:
Very good indeed for four D.D.:
Send them in typed, one at a time.
0.R.: It has something of the
sinuous splendor of an outraged earth-
worm ... .T.M.: Never, could we
silence a voice so manfully, it not
poetically, raised in defence of the
fair sex:
CONTRADICTIONS
All this talk of mothers who work,
To help keep on their kids a shirt,
Is growing most monotonous.
She works and she’s a greedy wretch ;
She stays at home —a lazy wench,
Devoid of all ambition. .
She helps her husband? She’s a jewl I
Leaves the children ? What a ghoul •


iOOli d
SXH
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
% / -i .twi
-v.'
jg« ‘t.tiPl
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
ECI
LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE IN URUGUAY
SOUTH AMERICA has long
been known as an exporter
of beef. In the First World War
one of the most common brands
of tinned-meat issued to the
troops was labelled “Fray
Bentos,” named from the town
of Fray Bentos on the Uruguay
River where there is a large
jrigorifico; and although we
think first of Argentina when
South American meat is men-
tioned, Uruguay has had a large
proportion of the beef-export
trade. The South American
countries have had, and still
have, natural advantages for the
growing of beef-cattle.
Uruguay, which I have been
visiting as one of the U.N. Food
and Agriculture Organisation’s
team of technical advisers, is the
smallest and the youngest of the
South American republics, with
some 72,000 square-miles of area
and a population of about 2|
million people. It consists almost
entirely of undulating plain
country watered by numerous
rivers. There are no mountains
and there is practically no rough
country. The highest point is
less than 1700 ft., and there is no
area in which cattle cannot be
easily mustered.
The annual rainfall of about
40in., well distributed, could
ensure that there is always
plenty of water and feed.
A feature of the country is
the absence of forest —much of
the land is similar to the
Argentine pampas. In past days
there were trees and scrub along
the courses of rivers, but no true
forest. To some extent this has
been overcome by the planting
of pines and Australian eucalypts.
For the most part these have
not been planted as stock-
shelters, but as commercial
undertakings, the trees being cut
The marking and
tailing of lambs with
a knife should be
avoided because it
results in open
wounds which can
easily become infected
by disease germs.
Marking and tailing
by Elastrator Rubber
Rings is far safer.
This method involves
no open wounds thus
considerably reducing
fatalities.
for building-timber or firewood.
The gumtrees are so charac-
teristic of the countryside that
I was often if we had
eucalypts in Australia.
The country was very kind to
the early cattle-raisers. Cattle
were released and allowed to
roam over the unfenced land at
will. They throve under these
conditions, and the estancieros
merely had to send out the
gauchos to muster the cattle
required for sale or slaughter.
In early records there are
extraordinary claims for the
number of cattle, one estimate
going as high as 25 million.
However, it seems that the
figure never exceeded 10 million.
Before the beef-trade developed
the main exports were hides and
tallow.
The introduction of British
and U.S.A. capital for the
erection of large abattoirs and
the freezing-works enabled the
meat-trade to expand rapidly;
with this expansion more care
was taken with the breeding of
cattle, and there were frequent
importations of high-grade
stud animals from the United
Kingdom and North America.
Studmasters had no hesitation in
paying the highest prices for the
animals they fancied.
In Uruguay the Hereford is
the favorite breed, although I
saw quite a few Shorthorns, too ;
other European breeds are
greatly in the minority. At the
annual Exposicion at the Prado
—the showground in Monte-
video—can be seen as fine l a
collection of Hereford cattle as
almost anywhere in the world.
An impressive feature is the
uniformity of the exhibits in the
different sections. The cattle are
of such good quality that judg-
ing must be difficult, even for
the expert.
Another feature noted was
that in some classes groups of
cattle are judged without being
handled. The groups are shep-
herded into the ring by gauchos
without halters or headstalls,
and the judge makes his decision
by visual examination only. In
country centres it is not unusual
to hold an “Exposicion Rustico.”
At this type of livestock-show
the animals are not specially
prepared and exhibited in
“show” condition, but are shown
just as they come out of the
paddock. Many believe that this
method of showing animals gives
a far better idea of the value of
the stock under estancia condi-
tions than the Prado Exposicion,
for which the animals are
specially prepared and groomed.
This is an idea which might be
given some consideration in
Australia.
In a large part of Uruguay,
and especially in the watershed
of the Rio Uruguay and its
tributaries, the soil is fertile and
the pastures are of high quality.
It is to the excellence of the
natural pasture, rather than to
any special skill in animal-
management, that the meat-
industry owes its early develop-
ment.
In the present century the
ready sale of wool and meat in
three wars gave a high degree
of prosperity. Uruguay’s animal-
products were eagerly sought,
and at one period the Uruguayan
peso was equal to the U.S.A.
dollar.
The wave of prosperity was
not really good for the country’s
economy. The Government
seemed to think that this peak
of prices could be maintained
indefinitely, and embarked upon
ambitious schemes of social-
welfare which provided for,
among other things, erection of
a great clinical hospital in the
city and generous pension-rights
to all citizens. The hospital, a
magnificent building, is only
half-occupied, because it cannot
be fpraished and staffed; arid
the pension fund, to judge from
press-comments, is in difficulties
meeting its commitments. The
“It’s all right for you men to laugh, but it's not as
easy as you think.”
peso has lost value and is now
quoted at 4.50 to the U.S. dollar.
About 15 years ago there were
said to be over 8 million cattle
in the country, but now the
estimates are from 4 million to 5
million. The reduction in
numbers is sometimes attributed
to a very serious drought in
1943 and a subsequent outbreak
of virulent foot-and-mouth-
disease. It is suggested that the
cattle - industry has never
recovered from these disasters.
However, more and more land
has been used for sheep, there
has been great extension of the
wheatgrowing areas, and it is
likely that these factors hive
more to do with the decrease in
cattle-numbers than a past
drought.
The people are great beef-
eaters, and now • that beef has
become very expensive the
Government is conducting a
campaign to popularise mutton-
consumption. There’s a local
prejudice against mutton. I was
told that it predisposed towards
digestive disturbances and to
liver-disease. It was the usual
meat-ration for peons. By sub-
sidising mutton to reduce the
retail-price, the Government is
increasing its consumption in the
metropolis. This year Uruguay is
buying 60,000 cattle from
Argentina for processing at the
frigorificos. The overseas market
for beef has practically disap-
peared, only one of the frigori-
ficos is working full-time, and
there are said to be 10,000 meat-
industry employees out of work.
There has been difficulty in
selling all the wool-clip. There
are over 25 million sheep in
Uruguay, and in 1954 60 per
cent, of the value of exports was
from wool. The difficulty
in marketing all the wool and
the virtual cessation of the meat-
trade is having an adverse effect
upon the stability of the
country’s finances.
All livestock going to Monte-
video for sale must pass through
the tablada —the Government-
controlled stock-market, where
animals are inspected by veterin-
arians, and weighed and graded
by the departmental officers.
The official grading for quality is
final —there is no appeal. Price
depends upon weight and grad-
ing. There is no free auction for
the cattle, as in Australian sale-
yards. If the owner is dissatisfied
with the price he need not sell,
but, having transported his
cattle a long distance from his
estancia, he has little choice. .
Growers aren’t satisfied with
the prices paid for their stock,
especially those paid for prime
animals. They say that little is
gained by going to the trouble
of producing high-quality
carcasses because the margin
above poor-quality meat is so
small. Along the Brazil border
an illegal trade in fat-cattle has
grown up. Uruguay has for-
bidden the export owing to the
meat-shortage, but on account of
the much higher prices obtain-
able over the border, many
cattle are smuggled across. This
is not difficult, because there are
numerous fords on the river and
it is not possible to police the
whole frontier.
The estancieros are now com-
ing to realise that the days of
easy stock-raising are over and
that improved methods of
animal-husbandry, pasture-
conservation and -improvement
and concerted action on disease-
problems are necessary if beef-
production is to be raised to
former levels. As mentioned,
much of the cattle-country had
been turned-over to sheep, and
fertile pastures have been lost to
wheatgrowing. To bring about
increased beef-production all the
benefits of scientific management
must be made use of. This is the
background to Uruguay’s appeal
to the Food and Agriculture
Organisation of the United
Nations for technical assistance.
There is no doubt that, with-
out reclaiming any of the land
that has gone over to sheep and
wheat, the beef-industry could be
brought back to a prosperous
state and the country again have
prime beef for export, but this
will require co-operative effort
by the Government and the
estanciero.
Estancieros will have to
improve pastures, especially in
the less-fertile areas. I would
hesitate to interfere with the
excellent natural pastures on the
more fertile soils until more is
known of the behavior of
introduced pasttire-plants, but
work should be commenced on
land of lower quality. Already
a number of estancieros are
engaged in pasture-improvement,
but too little experiment-work
has been done by the Agriculture
Department and the University
Agriculture School, and until
there has been more research the
best methods of pasture-
improvement for Uruguay will
not be known. A necessary
corollary to this is skilful
pasture-management, something
largely lacking in the country
today.
They will have to make more
use of modem methods of breed-
ing. Fertility-rates in many
cases are low, and there has been
no inquiry into the causes.
Infertile cows are held on
properties for a number of years,
in the hope that they will
eventually produce young, when
a veterinary examination would
either have remedied the fault
or indicated that the sterility was
incurable. The University is
doing good work in providing an
artificial-insemination service,
but this requires more financial
support to make it really effective.
A few of the more progressive
estancieros are using artificial-
insemination in the breeding of
their cattle and combining it with
the injection of oestrogenic
hormones, but without regular
professional guidance. The
uncontrolled use of such
hormones has its own inherent
dangers, and the Government
should provide an advisory
service on animal-breeding.
Cattle should be moved off the
estancias at as young an age as
possible. This, of course,
implies better feeding, pasture-
management, fodder-conserva-
tion and health-control. I was
on a few estancias which were
producing each year 200 to 300
cattle of two to three years, all
in prime condition, but such are
greatly in the minority.
On its part, the Government
must provide more effective con-
trol of infective diseases and
institute a sound health-advisory
service. Infectious-disease con-
trol is largely left to the whim of
the individual owner. Although
there is ample legislation to
regulate the treatment and move-
ments of infected animals,
official action is rare.
For instance, foot-and-mouth-
disease is endemic, but there is
no departmental effort to ensure
any control. There is a good
nucleus of veterinary talent at
the veterinary laboratory, but the


King Neptune! You’re right! this is...
KING-SIZE
POWER/
■I /
V
v
\
■
Completely Eliminates Knock... Gives Instant
Starting, Better Acceleration, Maximum Power
and More Miles to the Gallon.
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM containing
‘Super’Grade with a dashing difference
KWOK
INI
S
Cit-5
m 3
KPTDHK
PKIMM
<3l
Thinking about Dipping soon?
Prefer Arsenical Dips?
Want the best results
HERE'S YOUR ANSWER
SICKLE
BRAND
2!
:ni.
LIQUID ARSENICAL SHEEP DIP
for control of Lice and Keds
Just pour it tn!
9 A scientific combina-
tion of Arsenic and
Rotenone for econ-
omical dipping and
maximum control.
• Wets fleece rapidly,
penetrates deeply and
thoroughly.
£ Highly concentrated!
• Equally effective in
hard or soft water.
• Does not deteriorate
or lose potency.
*3
NOSIOd
If you prefer
Powder
\
Dips, look no further ti
9 Easy to mix.
• Suitable for small or
large growers.
0 Penetrate quickly,
thoroughly .
9 Won’t scour out
natural greases.
SICKLE
BRAND
DOUBLE ACTION
Powder Sheep Dip for Keds and Lice.
ARSENICAL
Powder Sheep Dip for Lice only.
Both available in 10-lb.
waterproof packs.
Obtainable from your local agent or :
AUSTRALIAN FERTILIZERS LTD.
5 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
diagnostic and research staff
needs reorganisation, the
laboratory needs modern equip-
ment, and the present system of
half-day work must be replaced
with a full-time service.
Similarly, the veterinarians
stationed in the country are for
the most part keen and active,
but they, too, are employed on
a half-time basis, and they
receive a very small travelling-
allowance. They should be full-
time employees without the right
to charge for their services ; with,
of course, adequate salaries.
More than 80 years ago
Hudson, in his The Purple Land,
sang the praises of Uruguay.
Much of what he said is still true,
but the pastoral industries have
not kept up with modem
methods and concepts, and the
advantages of temperate climate
and fertile soil have not been
sufficient to maintain production
without the aid of later tech-
niques of agricultural science.
With our own potential in beef-
production as yet unassessed,
and dependent on the same basic
factors, of markets, science and
costs, it will be interesting to
watch future developments in
Uruguay.
W. L. Hindmarsh.
Copper-poisoning
“Darra”: If sheep should die
suddenly after being brought
from certain areas of the
Riverina and northern Victoria
the- reason could be diat they
were so full of copper when you
got them that only a little more
was enough to be fatal.
Such areas usually contain a
lot of sub.-clover or certain
other plants, or heliotrope-
weed, which is also known
locally as iron-weed, barooga-
weed, or caterpillar-weed. This
weed has a dull ironish color
and its seed-heads look like little
caterpillars or grubs.
Ragwort is another weed
which, although controllable by
sheep, builds-up enough con-
centration inside them for only
a little more to cause death.
In some cases death can
follow some form of stress, such
as mustering or lambing. In
other cases it needs only that
fraction of copper to do the
damage. This can come even
by drenching with bluestone-
solutions or footbathing in
bluestone. For this reason,
phenothiazine is the safer
drench and formalin the safest
footbath when trouble is
suspected.
Dead sheep are usually
yellowish on the skin, around
the eyes and inside the mouth.
Thus the disease toxaemic-
jaundice is usually known as
“yellows.”
If deaths occur and other
sheep begin to look sick and
yellowish, cut your losses by
selling for slaughter. Don’t sell
your troubles to an unwitting
sheepowner. A salt-lick con-
taining lOoz. of molybdenum
(ammonium-molybdate) to the
bag is worth trying in areas
where heliotrope-weed abounds.
Use the lick during autumn and
winter.
“Yellows” is in contrast to
copper-deficiency, which causes
poor doers and “steely” wool
on some sandy coastal areas.
Here the remedy is drenches,
licks and copper-fertilisers.
Four-dimensional Soils
“Wyuna”: In addition to the
customary dimensions of length
and breath, soil has depth and
fertility, Dr. W. A. Albrecht, of
Missouri (U.S.A.), points out.
A world authority on soils,
Albrecht stresses that quantity
has been the common measure,
but what we eat may be filling us
but not nourishing us much. He
adds that a decline in soil-
fertility could result in a decline
in health, because poor soils
make poor food ; and poor food
gives less resistance to disease
and structural conditions such as
dental caries.
This is because dwindling soil-
fertility does not nourish crops
well enough to convert carbo-
hydrates into high-quality protein
food as readily as it piles up
carbohydrate bulk of less
nutritional value.
There is a strict tie-up between
soil-types and the quality of feed
—and the animal life—on them.
Support for Albrecht’s, theory is
given by the percentage of men
rejected for military service from
various soil-types.
Of the men living in the com-
paratively rich soils of north-
west Missouri, 158 per 1000 were
rejected by the U.S. Army.
Figures for progressively less-
fertile soil-types are Ozark
Borders, 176; north - east
Missouri, 203 ; and Ozarks and
Lowland, 214.
Further support is that the
best American Indians lived on
the best soil-types of the con-
tinent, and the best animals are
grown on the best soil-types.
Hence the number of
successful racehorse-studs on the
famous Kentucky Bluegrass
country.
Barley Stalks
“C. 8.”: Special scientific
research into the improvement
of barley is to be undertaken,
particularly relating to the grain
itself. But the stalk of the plant
could well be a subject for
scientific investigation. When
ripe, the part near the head is
very brittle. Even a light wind
can cause losses; with a heavy
wind the waste can be up to 75
per cent, and more.
On Yorke Peninsula, in South
Australia, which includes Yorke-
town, Minlaton, Ardrossan and
Port Victoria, where the major
crops of this type of grain are
grown in Australia, I have seen
crops which should have yielded
up to 40 bushels an acre reduced
to 7 or 8 bushels an acre by a
day of severe wind. The same
thing happens in other districts.
Strong hot winds are frequent
in the summer in S.A., and an
improvement in the toughness of
the stalk—l’ve no doubt the
plant-breeders could do it, in
time—would add materially to
the average yield of barley in
that State.
Potash Deficiency
“Billjim”: Potash - deficiency
is a common factor in soils of
southern Victoria. If clover
fails, or if weeds quickly check
pasture-grasses, it’s time you
thought about potash-deficiency
in suspect country.
Potash-fertiliser can be added
to the soil direct to overcome
deficiencies, of course; but
spreading f.y:m., feeding-out hay
and green-feed to stock, or using
the paddock as a night-run for
, . „„ hctthp
dairy-c
effect, o p fertiliser
Of the two forms of fertiliser
available, muriate-of-potash
the better, as it is more concen-
trated. A disadvantage is its
lumpiness, but this is a minor
one.
Use a one-to-one super-potash
combination the first year, at the
rate of one bag per acre. After
one dressing on this basis, an
occasional three-to-one dressing
should be all that is necessary to
maintain the required level of
potash in the soil. The appear-
ance of the pasture in the spring
should be a guide as to how the
treatment is working-out.
Potash is also present in
cement-ash, so if lime is required
cement-ash can be very useful —
it contains 65 per cent, lime to
8 per cent, potash.
Potash-fertiliser can be applied
during the autumn, winter or
early spring. To avoid scorching
plants, it’s better to apply the
fertiliser in dry weather. Spread
the stuff as soon as possible after
you get it —the bags rot quickly
if stored.
Farm Hints
“Dan”: Effective fly-bait for
dairies and sheds can be made
with i pint 50 per cent, mala-
thion and ilb. sugar. Add water
up to 2|gals. Spray the mixture
around. It will kill flies
immediately they taste it.
“Sundowner”: Because of
some injury to potatoes through
the use of tuberite, S.A. agri-
cultural experts advise the fol-
lowing precautions: Avoid
applying tuberite to potatoes
while they are wet; if tubers
show obvious water-spots, don’t
treat with tuberite immediately
after harvest —allow a two-
weeks’ to three-weeks’ curing-
period.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/7/’56)
Moderately good general ram* are hkely in a larg
part of Queensland during August, although the Peninsula
and north-west may be mainly dry, with light, patchy ram
in the far west. . „ N Q W
General rains should continue in many areas of N.b.W.
during August, with the heaviest falls occurring on the south-
west slopes and Riv.rina. Thi. may lead to tonowod flood-
ing in the southern Riverma. Falls on the coast should b
mainly confined to light and patchy. . ,
Fairly heavy general rains are likely in Victor.a durmg
August, and these may be heaviest in the northern division,
with a resultant continuation of flooding there.
South Australia should also experience general rams
above average during August, with possibly the heaviest
falls in the lower south-east.
In Western Australia, general rains above avera .ge
should be received in the south-west during August, with
the heaviest falls between Perth and Albany. The Gascoyne
and goldfields areas should experience light to moderate
rains, with local heavier falls.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The National Economy
The announcement of a further basic-
wage rise, coupled with recent disclosures
by the N. S. Wales Premier of the
financial position of his Government, are
further evidence of the heavy toll Aus-
tralia has paid for the 40-hour week, and
the inability of the major political parties
to sink their differences and grapple with
national problems.
Mr. Cahill’s Government is in a bad
position. No matter how much fares
are raised, no matter what new taxes he
and his colleagues conceive, there is no
escaping the basic truth —that public
utilities and services are on the verge of
bankruptcy.
Increasing charges to the public merely
worsens the position. Buyer-resistance
may be new to the Socialists, but anyone
experienced in selling could tell the State
and Federal Governments how easy it is
for a business, even a monopoly business,
to price itself out of existence.
Private industry, which, because it has
to pay various taxes, carries greater cost-
burdens than Socialist undertakings, is
meeting the position by increasing
efficiency.
This appears very well on the local
market, and certainly provides an invalu-
able comparison between free enterprise
and bureaucracy, but because of the
short working-week, high taxes arid
spiralling wage-costs, Australian industry
is finding its overseas markets are fast
diminishing in face of competition from
countries with more realistic economies.
The economic position in Australia has
assumed such seriousness that it should no
longer be treated as a political matter, or
left to the determination of pressure-
groups. A return to sound costing in
industry and a realistic approach to public
expenditure are essential if an economic
crisis is to be avoided.
This may mean that some Government
undertakings, both Federal and State, will
have to be closed or handed over to
private business. It may mean that some
industries will have to sell their products
overseas at little or no profit to meet the
stringent competition in foreign markets ;
it may mean the reintroduction of the
44-hour week ; it may mean the introduc-
tion of shift-work without penalty-rates to
reduce overhead-costs.
Whatever the remedies may be, they
concern everybody. And whatever they
are, they surely entail sacrifices that
should be spread over all sections of the
community.
Most important of all, the time has
come when these remedies should be
accepted, indeed sought, voluntarily by
all concerned. Governments have
demonstrated that they are capable of
playing only a small part, and their
inability to set their own houses in order
provides little incentive for businessmen
to follow the leads or suggestions of
political leaders.
One worth-while move is open to Sir
Arthur Fadden. When he meets the State
Premiers in the near future he could well
arrange a national conference of the
representatives of Governments, industry,
trade-unions, commerce and primary
producers to discuss the entire economy
on a national basis.
And, should such a conference be
called, those attending should take along,
not demands, but sacrifices.— Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Special Accounts
The N.S.W. Federal Liberal member
who lately sought the abolition of the
“special-accounts” system is unlikely to
meet with much support from either side
of the House.
“Special accounts” is defined as the
surplus investible funds of the trading-
banks of Australia (including the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank) held by the
Central Bank. The special-accounts
system was instituted in 1942 under the
National Security Regulations and con-
tinued under the 1945 Banking Act. In
1953, when qualitative controls (such as
capital issues) were removed, the maxi-
mum amounts the trading-banks were
required to keep in special accounts were
reduced. Thus the amounts so trans-
ferred in 1953 and 75 per cent, of any
further increase in deposits could be
callable by the Central Bank. Until 1956,
when the rate was lowered to a quarter
of 1 per cent., interest was payable at
threequarters of 1 per cent.
On the quantitative side the special-
accounts system is the best and perhaps
only effective means of control the
Central Bank has in Australia. No
well-developed money-market exists here
whereby the Central Bank can exercise
effective control <n the traditional manner
—by interest-rate policy or open-market
operations.
The following brief economic survey
will indicate how important the special-
accounts control has been since 1950.
In 1950-51 the excessive-liquidity con-
ditions (due to high wool prices) were
offset by calls into special accounts by
the Central Bank.
Export-income dropped considerably
in 1951-52, but enormous quantities of
stocks arrived unexpectedly from abroad.
The trading-banks’ urgent need for
liquid funds (to increase advances to
importers) met by releases from
special accounts, which dropped from
£552 million to £244 million.
In 1952-53 there was a falling-off of
activity and a halt to the inflationary
trend; orders were cut, as stocks were
still available from the previous year.
The subsequent falls in demand-levels
and liquidity were countered by a further
release of £9O million from special
accounts, which then stood at only 15
per cent, of ttading-bank deposits. Calls
of £145 million became necessary in the
last quarter, when rapid additions were
made to liquid assets —due to the big
improvement in overseas receipts and an
outflow of cash from the Treasury.
In these years the funds made avail-
able from special accounts enabled the
banking-system to support public-invest-
ment programmes, when other investors
were showing reduced interest in this
field.
The year 1953-54 was one of develop-
ment and stable prices. The tendency
towards excessive liquidity was again
offset by calls into the special accounts,
which steadily built up over the year.
Stresses began to develop in the
economy in 1954-55 due to labor-
shortages, scarce materials and a steady
decline in our overseas balances. The
Central Bank released funds, but when
bank-advances increased rapidly a more
restrictive policy was essential to counter
inflation.
In 1955-56 the same stresses have been
developing, and there has been a further
serious decline in overseas balances.
Calls in February of £35 million were
released in April and May to maintain
liquidity. The special account at present
stands at £265.4 million, which is about
18 per cent, of trading-bank deposits.
Unless a workable and equally effec-
tive means of Central Bank control can
be devised to replace it, the special-
accounts system looks like remaining a
feature of the Australian economy for
many years to come.— R. A. Cotton
(W.A.).
Poker-machines
The move to legalise poker-machines in
N. S. Wales, and, incidentally, pick up a
little revenue for the State, has been
condemned from a number of pulpits.
Gambling must be discouraged, they say,
and the ends cannot justify the means.
The golf-club to which I 5 belong could
not operate without its poker-machines.
It has been estimated that, without the
revenue from the machines, subscriptions
and green-fees would have to be increased
by 60 per cent. If that were done half
the members would resign, and fees
would have to be further increased. Soon
the club would cease to function.
What would happen to the members?
They would find some other way to fill-in
their weekends, mostly less-healthy ways,
and a good many of them would turn to
the race-tracks. The final result would
be worse than the present state.
One other point: in 20 years I have
been a playing-member of four cricket-
clubs. Two of them were church teams,
and every one of them used raffles to
: keep members’ fees within reasonable
limits., Surely that is not discouraging
gambling!— Mullum (N.S.W-).
Football Pools
Reports that one of Britain’s biggest
football-pool organisations will soon be
operating in Australia are disturbing.
Gambling already has far too promi-
nent a place in our communities and is
responsible for a huge and wasteful
annual expenditure, for neglected homes
and ruined lives. Lotteries have done
much to discourage thrift and to foster
the notion that it’s smarter to come by
“easy money” than to work for it.
Football-pools will increase facilities
for gambling and encourage further
squandering of the national income. In
Britain the pools are big business, with
millions of people “investing” in them
every week, and huge profits going to the
operators. Our Federal and State
Governments, if they have any regard for
the national interest, will outlaw the
football-pool from the beginning.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
Victorian Railways
The statement by the Victorian Minister
df Transport that rail-freights and rail-
fares, and tram-fares, are almost certain
to rise again later this year indicates that
it is time to abolish first-class travel, at
least on suburban trains.
Whatever the merits of the two-class
systems in the past, they don’t hold good
under today’s expanding conditions when
thousands of new workers automatically
elect to travel second-class every year.
Apart from Victoria, only W.A. now
has the two-class system, but the popula-
tion-density in the West does not present
quite the same problems of revenue and
peak-period dispersal of passengers.
Since the last Victorian fare-rise in
November, 1955, at least a dozen people
I know have switched to second-class
travel, and there must be thousands of
others who have done the same thing.
On that basis it can be assumed the Vic-
torian Railways has lost nearly £9 per
person a year, and it must now be
apparent to the authorities that much of
the anticipated revenue has thus been
cancelled-out.
The remedy appears to be to abolish
the first-class fare and strike a common
fare which will raise much-needed
revenue without inflicting too great a
burden on the working populace. At
present, the spectacle of second-class
carriages crammed to the doors in peak-
periods while first-class compartments
show empty seats is surely a clear case for
urgent review of this outmoded Victorian
idea of class-segregation.— Rkol (Vic.).
Steam and Diesel
The “practical test” mentioned by
“Four Threes” (B. 6/6/’56) —presumably
it was on the Melbourne-Serviceton
section of the Victorian railways—proves
nothing of value.
With steam-haulage, double-heading
was used and the locos, were changed
halfway, so four locos, and crews,
together with intermediate servicing-
facilities, were called for on the 300-
mile run. With diesel-traction double-
heading was still necessary, but only one
crew was needed, with no intermediate
change, and the schedule” was cut from
eight hours to seven.
Nothing achieved was beyond the
capability of cheap modern steam-power,
and the only thing proved was that if
you replace two ancient locos, worth
£lO,OOO a pair by two modem units worth
£200,000 you get an improved service—
although whether improved enough to
earn fixed charges at about 8 per cent,
on the difference is a moot point.
“Four Threes” mentions the “indisput-
ability of the increased efficiency of the
internal-combustion engine over steam.”
That is subject to qualification. I can
offer him millions of i.-c. plants with
about threequarter the efficiency of
steam, and if he’s dealing with loco-
motives, then we’re not discussing the i.-c.
engine but the diesel-electric locomotive,
a machine capable of efficiencies ranging
down to below unity.
In B. 27/6/’56 “Traveller” says:
With diesel-electrics, tractive-power is
applied evenly and centrally to the driving-
wheels through the driving-axles. This
results in minimum side-to-side action by
the unit against the running-rails and
consequently diesels don’t knock the
permanent-way about unduly.
The steam-loco., on the other hand,
“Traveller” asserts, “lurches” from one
rail to another and plays havoc with the
tracks.
It would be difficult to find anything
more contrary to fact.
The steam-locomotive, particularly the
two-cylinder job, does hammer the rail
vertically, due to the out-of-balance
forces resulting from efforts to balance
the part - reciprocating, part - rotating
motion of the pistons and connecting-
rods, but when these balance-weights are
omitted, as in modern units like the C3B,
hammering is virtually eliminated. Cer-
tainly the steamer lurches, but, due to
the high centre of gravity, almost all the
effect is vertically downwards through
the springs.
The diesel-electric, the electric and the
suburban motor-coach, oh the other
hand, have their centre of gravity very
low, so that, apart from racking action
due to the effect of the bogie-drive, when
they lurch the result is a vicious slam
against the rail in a horizontal direction.
It is one of the most surprising things
about the diesel that administrations with
years of experience in maintaining tracks
under the hammering of relatively light
suburban electric stock should have been
unprepared for a similar result from the
much heavier diesel-electric. Trans*
porticus (Singapore).


Cost of Living
Both weekend work and working wives
have undesirable aspects (B. 11/7/’56),
but they are not a “main cause” of
"general high prices.” Generally, prices
rise when demand outstrips supply. A
two-job family has a higher effective
demand than a one-job one, because of
the higher income received, but it is, or
should be, making a corresponding addi-
tion to the supply of goods and services.^
If a man takes on a job as bookie’s
penciller at weekends, while his wife sells
lottery-tickets during weekdays, they are
increasing their purchasing-power, while
not producing anything of value on which
the community’s income may be spent.
The same is true of the redundant civil
servant, appointed merely to swell the
importance of a department, of the
“jockey” riding round beside the truck-
driver on the wharves, and of plenty of
other useless jobs.
But the man who paints a house
for money at weekends or grows
vegetables for sale is no more
putting up prices than the man
who paints his own home or grows his
own vegetables. Both are doing the
same thing—helping to balance the family
budget.
Another cause of high prices is high
taxation. If taxes were merely socked
away they would force prices down, but
they are spent, and in many cases spent
less productively than their original
owners would have spent the money.
But the biggest factor in high prices is
probably waste. Waste of time through
laziness, preventable illness, inefficient
management or restrictive union practices;
waste of materials through poor work-
manship, waste of productive-capacity by
letting plant stand idle; waste of the
finished product through loss or damage
along the line from manufacturer to
consumer. All these mean that some-
thing which someone has been paid to
produce is not there to be bought when it
is wanted, so there is more money than
goods or services, and hence inflation.
The biggest waste of all is due to war,
which, in the economic sense, is pure
waste. Large numbers of men are paid to
produce things which large numbers of
other men are paid to destroy, and in
doing so cause further destruction.
From the terrible material destruction
of World War II we are still trying to
recover. Our recovery is hampered by
the manpower and material still being
wasted (in the economic sense) in prepar-
ing for World War 111. The situation
calls for the best possible effort from each
of us, and the man or woman who wants
to do extra work should be encouraged.
But if too many men find they have
enough energy left over for a second job,
it means that the 40-hour-week has failed
and should be scrapped, so that they may
give all their energy to their regular job.
Alternatively, it may mean that they are
wearing themselves out at weekends and
resting on Mondays, either by absen-
teeism or loafing on the job. In either
case the employers should act.
In the case of working wives, it is
hardly likely that they are doing their best
for current production by taking an out-
side job and either neglecting their
families or leaving them to be cared for
by others. In most instances it is not in
the best interests of the family. But
there are plenty of cases where a wife has
some special skill which makes it
economically sound to employ* her at a
wage that will enable her to pay someone
else to do part or all of the housework.
Or an elderly relative, living with the
family, may be able and willing to run the
house during the day.
In general, however, it would not be
necessary for wives to work outside the
home if all others were really pulling
their weight. Let everyone really work,
not just go through the motions of work-
ing, for 40 hours a week—or 44 if 40 does
not keep us busy enough—and high prices
would soon start to come down. And if
married women must work, let their
hours be limited by law to 24 a week and
bo overtime. — Magnoon (Q.).
There is no doubt that the proportion
of married women in the ranks of
employees has risen appreciably in recent
years, I know of no recent statistics for
Australia, but one has only to run
through a list of friends and acquaint-
ances to realise that the percentage of
working wives is substantial and on the
increase every year.
Statistics, however, are of little help in
answering the important question of
whether working wives are good or bad
for the community.
The influx of married women into
“He Wants a sandpit. ”
employment means greater production
and a higher material standard of living
than would otherwise be possible.
Imagine the plight of the average private
employer if all married women with-
drew their services!
But to accept the economic advantages
as complete justification for the wide-
spread employment of married women
ignores social aspects of far-reaching
importance. Is the job of running a home
and caring for a family so trivial? Does
it require so little time and thought that
it can be adequately managed in conjunc-
tion with an outside job? Is an outside
career really necessary—apart from
financial considerations —for a married
woman to feel happy and fully occupied
with life? Do children suffer serious loss
when both parents work? Are marriages
more stable or less stable when both
partners have a career to work for?
Psychologists have blamed lack of
proper home-life for much of juvenile
delinquency, and there is a good deal to
support their views in official reports. As
to the stability of marriages under the
new pattern of life, it is appropriate to
point out that the divorce-rate in the
U. is appreciably higher than in pre-
war years, as is the case in Britain and in
Australia. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Chowne, V.C.
Lieutenant Albert Chowne, V.C., M.M.,
was killed at Bagua (New Guinea) while
rushing a Jap m.-g. The award of the
V. was posthumous.
A. J. Chowne, of Willoughby (N.S.W.),
father of the soldier, applied for inclusion
in the party of V.C. winners and their
wives to whom the Government granted
free travel to London for the V.C.
centenary. On the ground that he was
outside the scope of the regulations, the
claim was rejected.
Besides V.C.s and their wives, those
eligible to go were the widow of a V.C.,
his children, his mother or sister. Chowne
senior’s wife is dead, his son had no
children, the son’s widow has remarried
and renounced any rights she had, and
his sister did likewise.
That left only the father, but every-
one, from the Prime Minister to the
Federal office of the R.S.L., which imple-
mented the scheme for the Government,
said “No.”
Meanwhile the V.C. party was about
to leave for London.
Frank Channon, a World War I Digger
who has had many R.S.L. posts, is an old
friend of Chowne’s, and he took up the
case. He first saw W. M- Jack, Liberal
M.P. for North Sydney, who finally
advised that nothing could be done.
H. B. Turner, Liberal M.P. for Bradfield,
gave the same reply.
The next M.P. whom Channon inter-
viewed was the Minister for the Army,
J. O. Cramer, who admitted that, if the
R.S.L. recommended an exception in
Chowne’s case, the Government would
acquiesce. But the R.S.L. was adamant.
Channon’s next move was to get
F. Stewart, Labor M.P. and ex-Service-
man, to ask whaffor. Stewart did so, in
the House, and Sir Arthur Fadden replied
that the matter could not be reopened.
Channon’s R.S.L. sub-branch (Chats-
wood-Willoughby), as well as the
Northern Suburbs District Council,
R.S.L., adopted motions censuring the
Federal R.S.L. But the case seemed
hopeless.
On the eve of the two-day festival in
London, during which the Queen reviewed
V.C. winners, Chowne sent a cable to
her Majesty: “Respectfully present
respects of my 50n.... to your gracious
Majesty at V.C. centenary.”
That was on June 23. Then, out of
the blue on June 25, Canberra asked
Chowne to be in London on June 25
too late!
Chowne, who thinks the Queen’s inter-
vention brought a change in policy, sent
a wire to the Federal R.S.L.: “Pleased to
accept Her Majesty’s Government’s kind
invitation. Request travel- and credit-
vouchers for immediate London journey.”
As he got the telegram off, he said with
a smile: “That’ll embarrass ’em! ” — J. B.
(N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase and Inflation
It seems a vain hope for the Common-
wealth Government to expect the accep-
tance companies to restrict their goose
that lays the golden egg, and even vainer
to hope the ordinary man in the street
will forgo the convenience of hire-
purchase. Yet how can the faults of the
system be controlled?
In my days as an economics student I
learned two axioms: (1) An increase in
the volume of money (e.g., by credit-
expansion, such as h.-p.) led to a rise in
the overall level of prices ; and (2) A
fall in. the average price-level inevitably
led to a recession, unless the fall was the
result of improved methods of production.
The obvious solution, then, is to make
the tremendous profits from hire-purchase
business pay for improved industrial
methods. The profits are tremendous —
the gross return on money lent is in the
vicinity of 47 per cent.
I am not a Socialist, but here is one
phase of our economy which should be in
Government hands and used for the
benefit of the people in the following
way:
A Federal Acceptance Corporation
should be set up to control and issue all
hire-purchase credit.
The profits from the undertaking
should be placed in trust and issued as
loans ta industry for improving produc-
tion-methods. Before a loan could be
approved the applicant would have to
show and guarantee a reduction in the
price of his product.
How would this work out in practice ?
First, the existing hire-purchase com-
panies would be acquired by the Govern-
ment, the shareholders being issued with
Government securities based on the
market-value of their holdings.
Next, debenture-holders would have
their rights protected by the Government.
Fost-offices and branches of the
Commonwealth Bank could act as
receiving-offices for repayments.
For every £2 million of capital the
Government would have approximately
£1 million to lend annually to industry.
Without the hire-purchase companies
to compete against Government loans,
interest-rates could be stabilised and the
success of Government development-loans
assured.
For the ordinary person it would mean
stabilised prices, a rise in the standard of
living and a greater variety of goods.
Nationally, it would mean a reduction in
the drain on our overseas funds, greater
self-sufficiency in war, and an increase in
the inflow of overseas industrial capital.
—Beval (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 393
Across
I—A1 —A reason for snivelling should, go
ahead of the queen to snub
Monday’s lunch? (4, 8)
9 Support a place to drive off a
beneficiary. (7)
10— Sydney suburb is to murder an
artist. (7)
11— Birds introducing Golf-course
Menzies. (9)
13— Balance one in a bodily attitude.
(5)
14— Horseshoe hat coming back in
State. (4)
15— Irish city initiating several lunges
in green oranges. (5)
18— Hail to Cayenne, Jack! (5)
19— Scissor haberdashery is back. (4)
21— Roman ladder at the top of the
ladder to operatic fame? (5)
22 Chasing one hundred and one
about attentions needed by the
convalescent. (5, 4)
23 — Duck-wing in view. (7)
24 American sailor services which do
not quite succeed these vessels.
(7)
26- —East-wood takes it heads who
saw the accident? (3-9)
Down
I—Many a book is this practice for
a creature who wants to grow up
into the cow who jumps over the
moon. (4-5)
2 Timber journal. (3)
3 Sink to the bottom pay. (6)
4 Bone-lover is disturbed by
bowling by a great Australian
bowler when much too blue-
blooded. (4-5)
5 The president’s under 50, but has
esteem for such tastes. (5)
6 The Spanish kissing point is a
figure of speech where words are
left out or implied. (8)
7 Fish for winter footwear. (5)
8— Persian ruler with the alternative
turned in a State. (10)
12—Harlem harasser of Malvolio goes
to jail often. (5, 5)
15— The loose-fitting garment certainly
isn’t too drunk to pelt. (4-5)
16— —Behaves tyrannically towards a
small composition publisher’s
equipment. (9)
17 — The goodwill of 8-down is a
disaster. (8)
20— Choirboy is among three winners
at the races. (6)
21— Stand a round outcry. (5)
22 Novel on Agnes who wrote many
fine compositions in Australia?
(5)
25 —East manuscript letters in a
German city. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 392


FH
iSP
* '
9
@^m<g
'
x mm
!|F| m<!Wk/'"i
, ' a mi"
9
RAILWAY
-»■
w\\
,f- 45 # -4 .
a< . Vi
I>l///I
MfoiL’j&fi
■S
CROSSING
-is. t ■
r/ v , ■'
'*r' h
9
::'-4 V\
*%>
■Myif/liV
RST/tYI
vfiw'A
WM.
m.
M
■M
'al-
m
Ya
m
I//,
SsL
r/
V - *
m
-v/ >
//-
i/’F
.^o
ji//
s . V
«p
//£C^
Yes, it’s a fact. Forty-eight people were killed and
247 people injured in 471 reported level crossing acci-
dents throughout Australia for the 12 months ended
June 30, 1955. That’s the tragic human loss. What
also of the millions of work hours lost through interrup-
tions to the nation’s road transport system cars,
trucks, idling as the trains go by?
No statistician could compute the cost to the nation
of level crossing hold-ups. But we do know that they
raise the cost of living by forcing up the price of goods
and services. And somewhere along the line from
producer to you, you pay the extra out of your own
pocket.
It’s high time we took drastic action on our major
level crossings, incongruous survivals in the jet age
of a bullock wagon era. Various authorities have
tried to overcome the problem. Wig-wag signals,
flashing lights and other warning devices certainly help
minimize accidents. But level crossing accidents still
average nine a week. That’s because the action taken
has been, in the main, a palliative, not a real cure.
Major level crossings must be eliminated. This
requires regrading or relocation of train lines, the
construction of overpasses and underpasses and the
re-routing of roads. These methods are practical,
economical. Their implementation needs the foresight
and planning which a National Roads Authority, with
the necessary funds and powers, can provide. Surely
it would be a worthwhile national task to not only re-
make yesterday’s roads, but build tomorrow’s roads,
TODAY.
What do you think?
CATERPILLAR*
■*** ****** °
*2pp
!CP
R 166
•CATERPILLAR AND CAT ARB
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.. U.SA
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
