

/
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
“THE AXE” : SUPERB SHORT STORY
“The Bulletin, 1 ” Vol. 77 No. 4000
Wednesday, October 10, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 3/9: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
BOODLE’S, FAMOUS LANDMARK IN LONDON’S CLUBLAND
DESPITE all the upheavals of the present century, London’s Clubland
remains unchanged. The leading clubs of a hundred years ago—Boodle’s,
Brooke’s, the Reform, the Athenaeum and the rest —are still the leading clubs of
today; they occupy the same premises, their members recline, as often as not, in
the same chairs. And they retain, as always, their intriguing air of mystery. One
may walk down the length of St. James’s-street or Pall Mall, gazing at the
succession of elegant, dignified and sometimes ponderous buildings, and yet
be given no official indication that they are premises of clubs whose names
are known in every capital of the world.
Several of the oldest London clubs originated in the coffee-houses which
were such a feature of the life of the capital jn the 17th and 18th centuries. As
time went by. although the coffee-houses still remained open to the general
public, certain rooms would become the recognised preserve of these exclusive
circles, who eventually left to establish independent headquarters in houses of
their own.
Such was the history of Boodle’s, illustrated here. Visitors in St. James s
Street often pause to admire the elegant facade of No. 28, one of the finest
Georgian houses in London. This is the home of Boodle’s, which moved there
in 1782, after having had its early beginnings in Lloyd’s Coffee House. Its
members were governed by a strict rule of conduct, one decree stating
categorically that “nobody can lose or win above nine guineas at a rubber
of whist.”
The interior of Boodle’s is in every way worthy of its beautiful frontage,
and the first-floor Saloon, in particular, is one of the most perfect examples in
existence of the style of Robert Adams. Boodle’s has always had a close
connection with racing and hunting, and its staircase is adorned with a fine
series of paintings of former winners of the Grand National and other important
races.


ItOORHUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only If suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
AT KORORAREDA
Anybody who is at all acquainted
with New Zealand history will hardly
be surprised to learn that, as John B.
Williams melodiously puts it in his New
Zealand Journal, 1842-1844 (Peabody
Museum of Salem; Brown University
Press), the early days at Kororareka,
now Russell, in the Bay of Islands, were
lamentable with “indolence and levity,
inebriation and lasciviousness.” Three
out of every four of the population (on
Williams’s figures) were convicts
absconded from New South Wales;
and the rest, with a handful of officials,
were whalers.
But, familiar though the general
picture may be, it is always interesting
to have specific details, not only of
such “splendid sin,” as Williams
(reprovingly) liked to call it, but also
of the personalities of the period; and
Williams himself is a fine roaring
character to come across.
He was a master of some of the
worst prose ever written: —
I have here given an unpremedi-
tated account of ascending uncon-
tested in opposition to others that
are wafting their aerial flights to the
consecrate grounds of the pilgrims.
He was a master of reproof of sin:
Her Majesties (Queen Victoria)
Officers at the Bay have their hours
for business, 10AM to 2PM, in this
small place of about 205 inhabitants.
The intervening time is to much
taken up with lewd Maurie women
who especially the Sub-Collector J.
Guise Mitford, living licentiously
with lewd Mauries, and a seducer of
innocent young native girls, in their
primitive simplicity, to their utter
shame and disgrace be it known,
regardless of decency and respect,
living likes brutes fastidious without
much labour, toiling hard for this
worlds pleasure which the wind
bloweth whither it listeth. Toiling
like the Atheist they seldom
apparently seek the Bread of Life,
as if this probationary existence
were all. Setting at defiance
morality and religion, bringing upon
themselves the fastidiousness [sic] of
their countrymen and women. Such
, their conduct, palpably an outrage
on humanity, a disgrace to the
Government of Queen Victoria.
He was magnificently inconsistent in
his rantings, at one time stigmatising
the Maoris as “Brutes! Brutes! Yes,
hellish brutes!” and at another time
calling them “a race of poor innocent
children”—though indeed both view-
points were tenable.
He is never more delightful than in
his vendetta against Chs. Benj. Wait-
ford, who, for reasons not altogether
made clear, seems to have annoyed him
beyond bearing:—
The prostitution of oaths are most
awful to hear, and the most arrant
false swearing is ever [un]rebuked
and unpunished, much of this in one
important case I have heard. A half
bred petty fogging lawyer at the
Wahapu passing by the appellation
of White Washed Yankee, a book-
keeper in an American house, of
highly respectable parentage in Eng-
land, from his loquaciousness one
would naturally draw the inference
that he too, Chs. Benj. Waitford
had been a convict. His prostitution
and demoralising conduct has be-
come [so] proverbial that virtue
shrinks from all association with
him. In his fascinating and pro-
fligate course many, very many
American Shipmasters are seduced
by his wicked, winning and enticing
manner of expression.
It is a relief after all this to learn
that at least the Resident, Mr. Busby,
was a “worthy and urbane Gent.”—-
no small tribute from so notable a
critic—-and that, when not contemplat-
ing the sinful life on the beach or
listening to the tremendous swearing
(“I’m a man! I’m an Englishman! I’ll
tear your ——- guts out! I’ll drink
your heart’s blood!”), Williams found
the scenery soothing and fertile, with
a kind word for the pohutukawas
whose hairy arms to this day cling to
At a short distance this magnifi-
cently beautiful tree presents to the
e^e tke botanist a field of wonder,
picturesque and sublime, gratifying
the heart of man, and one of the
most heavenly and beautiful sights
that the human mind is capable of
imagining: it is a delightful and
pleasing sight to the beholder before
the buds are opened or expanded,
and the silver buds, green leafs, and
crimson flowers marks a most elegant
contrast.
A ship’s captain and trader out of
Salem, Williams was U.S. Consul at
Russell during the two years he kept
his journal, afterwards returning to
America and then establishing himself
in Fiji (where he is not to be confused
with other notables of the race of
Williams, one of them, a missionary,
Norman Lindsay’s grandfather). His
journal was unearthed at the Peabody
Museum, Salem, by Robert W. Kenny,
who was in New Zealand as a U.S.
serviceman during the war, and who
rightly considers that this naive and
graphic volume, admirably produced
and edited, will “prove useful to
students of New Zealand history.” It
wi . ]l . also Ptf>ve remarkably enter-
taming.
Poems From Tasmania
Every poet has his favorite word,
the keynote of his poetry; and Vivian
Smith’s in The Other Meaning
(Edwards and Shaw; Lyrebird Writers)
is “swerve.” In “This Time of Calm”:
the swerving bird glides out of harm,
finding this sheltered hour home.
In “Water Beetles”:—
O fern uncoil and water murmur
into a pool, the mind’s delight:
and in this drought, despair and dust
let beetles swerve their trails of
light.
And in “These Wrens, This Wattle-
tree,” a beautiful little poem flashing
like the birds themselves:—
These wrens, this wattle-tree,
the rapid blue, the sheltered green
on the sandy bracken hill
dance their color in my mind,
swerve a meaning to the heart:
nor any meaning heart can find.
Above the wastes of yellow thorn
and dry moss stones, in steady shade,
they swerve their color through the
air
and dance a meaning for the mind:
be where the song is, heart be there.
The word itself is not overworked.
But in effect it continues throughout
the poems. The birds of “In Summer
Rain,” if they do not actually swerve,
“dance and point on calms of air”:
the changing season in “Equinox” is
symbolised in a blue moth’s “be-
wildered wing”; even the girl in “Girl
by Green Water” (an exquisite title for
a poem) “ripples” and “eddies” like
running water; and the swans in “Bird
Sanctuary” have surely swerved
through the air before they “glance” on
the water and, in a quietude as preg-
nant as Mallarme’s,
settle into meaning
as thoughts and poems
on the edge of silence.
What is the significance, what is the
value of the word itself and the poetry
of which it is the keynote? In the first
place, “swerve” is unusual, original,
for a poet’s favorite word: this is
original poetry. It is also, both in its
sound and its meaning, a word of con-
siderable strength, not robust but
sinewy: and this is poetry of precisely
that kind of strength.
The word, ultimately, has a twofold
significance, technical and visionary.
The poems are quite loose techni-
cally; the rhythm varies unexpectedly,
the rhymes don’t always fall into regu-
lar patterns and sometimes they just
vanish. There is a general effect of
elusiveness; and at the same time of
an invisible control. It is not ineffici-
ency and it is not accident: it is a
swerve. Perhaps, as he seems to
indicate in “The Child and the Pianist,”
it is because Vivian Smith plays the
piano that the music of his poetry
ripples so elusively, yet never quite,
except in overtones, jumps off the key-
board. At any rate, he seems to know
what he is doing.
The vision is similarly elusive. It
could hardly be otherwise. For what
he is trying to set down here is the
opposite of what he found in “Bedlam
Hills,” the black certitude of
w-rn hilk
with madness in their monotone
and emptiness where no life moves
beneath a stone
ij • i , . f '
• e „ 1S l°°k irl g f° r . e 0 r ■ •
mg, uncertain, elusive, swerving m
to jo n y k and n iigh, here it th cS m r, ! n
when you walk
over and over the hills of strewn
and fractured rock where the berry
suckles the given stone
and the light breaks clearly.
™.,. „ . ,
This elusive sort of poetry reminds
one of a dictum by John Cowper
Powys, himself constantly at the
margins, that the great works of litera-
ture, the great illuminations, always
come in sideways : not following the
fashion of the day, but from nowhere.
lvian Smith has a long way to go
yet before he writes a great book; but
There are Tome unfortunate misprints
in this otherwise nrceiy-produced U.
International Art Show
In a wonderful setting among the
green trees and winding paths of the
Giardini, with a view across the water
of the marble palazzos and cupolas of
the city, Venice is holding its 28th
biennial international exhibition of art.
The exhibits are housed in pavilions,
presumably built by the Governments
concerned; and it is hard to under-
stand why there is no Australian
pavilion, especially when there are 25
or more nations represented, including
Canada and South Africa and small
countries like Israel, Ceylon and even
Luxembourg.
Some of the pavilions are works of
art in themselves, particularly the
Japanese one with its waterfalls, ferns
and dwarf trees, and that of Finland
in light-colored wood. But these are
disappointing in their contents. So
also are those of Britain and France,
which could surely have submitted
something better than the Buffet paint-
ings of grey bodies and sick colors, and
the bright, childish, empty abstracts of
Jaques Villon. In sculpture there are
some interesting, nightmarish objects
made from scrap-iron, cylinders, bolts
and nuts all welded together.
A whole bay is given to Hitchens in
the British pavilion; there are besides
the social comment of Jack Smith and
the simple, large still-lifes of Middle-
ditch. More stimulating is the Ger-
man exhibit with the richly painted,
terrible caricatures of Nolde, his clash-
ing colors and thick paint, even a
simple study of boats or sunflowers
full of feeling. Then there are some
puzzle-pictures, streaky figures in lost
landscapes or canvasses full of colored
balloons-—great fun for the painter, but
one can’t help asking . . . Why?
Such a large international collec-
tion, though perhaps not representing
the best artists from each country,
gives a chance to compare national
styles in art; the Belgian Rik Wouters
with his impressionist, Renoirlike por-
traits of women, and Van Lint’s
austere designs, with Holland’s Van der
Leek —crowd-scenes in which every
face is the same, and patterns that
seem to be done in colored paper like
kindergarten cut-outs.
No greater contrast could be seen
than in the entries of those two world-
Powers, the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.
They are different in their subject-
matter, their way of looking at life,
their interpretation of the meaning of
“realism,” their style. There is little
that is surrealist or pure abstract in
either, but the U.S. artists are much
more up to date.
The artists of both countries paint
the life around them, but the Soviet
artists give the impression that they
are painting to a formula; workmen
and toil must be glorified, and every-
thing “modern” is good. For instance,
Tatiana lablonskaia’s “Grain,” which
shows women workers apparently
shovelling wheat into bags under
primitive conditions in the hot sun.
Every worker—rolling up her sleeves,
hitching up her skirts, tying up a bag
—is wearing a jolly, beaming smile.
There is no hint of weariness any-
where.
This glorification of workers’ happi-
ness can be seen equally in a small
sketch, “Tonight We Go to the
Pictures.” It’s only a study of a woman
truck-driver speaking to a man; the
subtle propaganda is all in the title.
There are likewise studies of fishermen
and farmers: “The Tractor-Driver’s
Supper” is simply an idyllic landscape
with foreground figures, and the end
of a tractor obtruding pointedly at one
side; it gives the “modern” touch. As
art it is about on a level with the
tractor-advertisements in the “Saturday
Evening Post.”
In sculpture the heads of “Maiakov-
ski” and “Worker of Stalingrad” are
almost identical, with their rugged
features and firm mouths. There are
busts of sculptors, writers, ballerinas
and an outsize head of Lenin. The
best thing is a portrait-bust of
Dostoievsky by Konenkov: a tortured
face and writhing hands clasped above
the great block of rough stone from
which the figure emerges.
There are few city-paintings; but
one, “The New Moscow,” will serve to
contrast with the American paintings
of the city. It is a traditional study of
a girl driving a car (Equality of
Women, Mechanisation) through a
street where other cars and buses are
to be seen. In the U.S. collection there
are many paintings of New York; that
by Corrado Marca-Relli shows a
simplified pattern of cell-like rooms,
like a great beehive in section.
There is also the exciting “New
York” by Hedda Sterne, a pattern of
purple and orange, of overways and
bridges and buildings and glimpses of
blue sky all merged into an abstract
design. There are several others of
New York by night, the most simplified
being Mark Tobey’s “City Radiance,”
a mass of lines and points of light that
seems to coruscate like one of
those Guy Fawkes specials called
“sparklers”; you can almost hear it
crackle.
For another contrast let us take “In
the Metro,” by Leonida Soifertis, and
“The Subway,” by George Tooker.
The Russian picture is a charming
study of a little girl riding on the
escalator; the American is a study of
human hopelessness among a world of
antiseptic tiles and cold cement,
reminiscent of a scene from “Death of
a Salesman.”
It is in the city that these American
artists seem to find most of their
inspiration, and they have made some
extraordinary vital, original and excit-
ing paintings out of their impressions.
There is an exhausting restlessness
about some of them, but they are as
modern as a jet-plane, whereas Soviet
art seems to be stuck somewhere back
in the 1920’5.
They all seem light and cobwebby,
however, when compared with the
paintings in the Spanish pavilion.
This pavilion is dominated by the
fine canvasses of Vaquero, whose
landscapes are so solid, so full of the
feeling of space, heat and massiveness,
that you feel as if whole tracts of
Spanish earth had been transported to
Italy. Then there are the big pictures
of Lozano and Beulas and the over-
whelming, exuberant, primitive colors
of Polencia.
Inevitably, the Italian exhibit is the
biggest and most representative—it is
no doubt easier to collect Italian works
for a show in Italy. Outstanding are
the melting, unreal pictures of Piran-
dello (son of Luigi Pirandello, the
author) with their beautiful colors; he
seems preoccupied in paint with his
father’s great question: What is reality?
Then there is the wonderful black-
and-white work of Alberto Martini,
reminiscent of Norman Lindsay; the
weird, imaginative illustrations to the
tales of Poe, the strange women, the
“Nocturne” in which the landscape
can only be guessed. Vagnetti has some
still-lifes and portraits in clear, clean
colors, full of light. And in sculpture
Manzu and others carry on the great
tradition of heroic marbles and bronzes
(like the “Soldato Morto,” which is a
replica of one of the figures in the
imposing war-memorial at Pisa); while
others are experimenting with the
possibilities of old, worm-eaten wood.
Nancy Cato.


V' \ Wm* -f .fp; m ]
‘
mm?
• x
j/mmmmm
%•£? ' ' ■&OSBL
f •
;•••■•
-•• m
M
-
:::■•• <
N 3
.i
Pi
tei-kll
|l .Jar #■! jloL*-" ■ l ji
,
&
ji
$$ Jk 'Z&r&kKj
**> Vx-.:/' '■■■'•
v,' ■ A ~ s
r i..
- :i : >KU:?x
«r
» 1
-t
a
~K
m
.
■
- - '
■.
\
1
'fe
1 5
II H *' 1 UPC!
mm
>• >
«
n
•:•• ■•••
PI
■>■,;■
:
,
r
:; • ■■■• •
i<
la
»
&«
■
g
ii*
pre-cut loose covers
made the difference in just x k an hour
• ! ‘l - i
I
r !
r>-
*
[
.
>, ':
m
V.'iv
o
*
<2
gl
• -ril
j > 4' ,* j*
/ / rXf
Dress up your lounge suite for Spring with “Customagic/"
these slip covers are designed to fit with custom tailored
perfection to at least 10 different types of square cushion
3-piece lounge suites. Choose from a dazzling collection of
coloured designs printed exclusively for customagic loose
covers. Complete and ready to take away and fit immediately.
No involved measurements required. Imagine—no fuss, no bother, no
measuring. Prices: Chairs from £"8/4/-; Complete suites from only £29/15/-.
Anyone can fit “Customayic”
to any square cushioned suite
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'’
80951
ADDRESS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE B 0951. POSTAGE EXTRA.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4000
Wednesday, October 10, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nat ban’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A SORT OF BIRTHDAY
TODAY “The Bulletin” is 4000 weeks old. In
historic reckoning the fact has some significance.
An ancient Greek, name of Meton, after devoting
years to a study of the behavior of the sun and
moon, deduced that the phases of those two bodies
were exactly repeated every 19 years—which would
mean that a 1956 calendar, put carefully away,
would be usable again in 1975, had not someone
in the meantime invented leap-years and other
refinements to defeat the thrifty. Modern
mathematicians say Meton wasn’t quite right, but
his contemporaries, not having a Silliac at their
disposal, accepted his word for it and called such
a period a Metonic cycle, which seems as good a
name as any for it. In round figures a Metonic
cycle was 1000 weeks, but before many of ’em had
passed another Greek, Calippus, announced that
Meton was slightly off the beam, but that by inter-
posing a Calippic period at the end of every fourth
Metonic cycle everything in the heavens would run
like clockwork would when it was eventually
invented. By that reckoning this issue appears to be
“The Bulletin’s” Calippic Number. It, therefore,
seems fitting to take an unrepentant glance at its
three previous Metonic Numbers.
“Bulletin” No. 1000 appeared on April 15,
1899. Archibald, the founder, was still editor,
with James Edmond as his lieutenant; “Hop” the
chief cartoonist. Federation was just around the
corner and George (“Yes-No”) Reid, Premier of
N. S. Wales, was vacillating over the Enabling Bill
which was to record his State’s assent. A “Hop”
cartoon depicted Wise, K.C., standing on the
“down” end of a see-saw up which a petticoated
Toby Barton, balanced on a ball, was attempting
to walk to Federation. The ball had the features
and eyeglass of George Reid. The leading article,
obviously an Edmond product, replied to a “solemn
and low-spirited” article in a Melbourne paper
which had deplored the lessened rate of increase in
Victoria’s population. Edmond Attributed the
decline to the “sobering-up of the 90’s” after the
“railway-building drunk of the 80’s”:
Victoria left off pouring-out borrowed money
just as Westralia commenced. Therefore, that sec-
tion of the Vic. populace which was neither agri-
cultural, pastoral, manufacturing, mining nor
commercial—the section which was created by the
lavish borrowing of the Gillies era, and which
lived on public works—mostly gathered up its
swag and lighted out for the sunset.
He pointed out that in a State of limited size
you couldn’t go on building railways for ever.
Manufactures, with the assistance of Protection,
offered the best chance of increasing population.
For the rest he advocated a heavy land-tax, the
proceeds to be devoted to opening-up the Mallee
country and Eastern Gippsland.
Plain English articles of April 15, 1899, dis-
cussed Charles Cameron Kingston (approvingly)
and Big John Forrest (disapprovingly); the unjust
treatment of Afghan camel-drivers back o’ Bourke
by their Afghan bosses; discipline in Westralian
jails; old-age pensions in New Zealand; a couple
of murders. A contributor had “just visited one
of the Federal cities and was nobbled at my first
glimpse of her.” From his description the fair
charmer seems to have been Albury.
In addition to “Hop,” black-and-white artists
of 1899 included Alf Vincent (a page on Bendigo
Show), Frank Mahony, D. H. Souter, George Lam-
bert, B. E. Minns, Tom Durkin and A. J. Fischer.
The Red Page reviewed Spencer and Gillen’s “T(ie
Native Tribes of Australia,” a tome which it found
chockful of facts, but entirely lacking in color and
atmosphere. Roderic Quinn, Arthur Adams, E. J.
Brady and Peter Airey were among the* verse
contributors, and there were short stories by Will
M. Fleming (still going strong) and Edward Tregear.
A week earlier Henry Lawson and Randolph
Bedford were represented; a week later Tom
Collins # and Steele Rudd, with a mention of Will
Ggilvie and Ted Dyson. Odd snippets included a
remark attributed to a former “S. M. Herald”
editor to the effect that the Fairfaxes always tried'
to spell Piety and Prosperity with the same P; a
comment that “Shm M’Caughey last year shore
1,300.000 sheep”; a photograph of Ethel Turner
and her baby daughter. George Rignold was
playing “Othello” at the Sydney Criterion;
accommodation could be had at the Hotel Australia
for £3 10s. a week “inclusive of all meals and
attendance”; the “Life, Adventures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid” could be bought for Is. 6d.,
post-free.
The Boer War had not begun when “Bulletin”
No. 1000 appeared. No. 2000 (June 13, 1918) saw
the First World War at a critical stage midway
between the German breakthrough in March and
the final Allied advance which began on August 8.
S.' H. Prior was then editor; Norman Lindsay and
David Low chief cartoonists. A Lindsay full-page
showed Old Nick, with a face rather like a stem
schoolmaster’s, rebuking the Kaiser for bombing
hospitals. Low had a page of “Nhughes Items”
depicting Billy Hughes in America. A section of
the Labor party had been advocating the recall
of Australian troops and a separate peace with
Germany. Attacking this attitude, and also the
argument that Australia could best be defended
at home, the leader-page said:—
Australia, in short, is the one place where
Australia, as it is now, can’t lie protected against
a really serious direct attack. The story of a free
and valiant nation defending its own hearth on
its own doorstep is poetic and pictorial.... It
recalls fenced cities that were previous to the
day when Sydney could be bombarded from
Katoomba.... But it is a pleasant soporific, used
to keep the country asleep till it is so late that
waking isn’t worth while, and to flatter it by
making treason or cold feet pass as high-class
patriotism.
The war dominated most of the writing, but
there were articles on the treatment of the mentally-
sick; the high cost of congested cities; the drug
traffic; “Westralia, the State that Drove Four Booms
Abreast.” Only Souter and Minns remained of the
1899 artists; the 1918 crop included Harry Julius,
Hal Gye, Jimmy Bancks, Frank Jessup, Mick Paul,
L. F. Reynolds, Betty Paterson, J. Muir Auld, Fred
Brown and Colin Colohan. Among poets and
versifiers were David McKee Wright, Edmund
Fisher, Bart Adamson, “kodak” O’Ferrall, Nina
Murdoch, Mabel Forrest, C. Templeton and Jack
Hamilton. James Edmond and Ted Dyson were
still writing prolifically; Harold Mercer had sent
a short story from France. Elioth Gruner had just
joined the A.I.F. and Lieut, (now Judge) P. V.
Storkey had just won his V.C. The theatre was
largely in the hands of the ladies—Emilie Polini
in “De Luxe Annie”; Muriel Starr in “The Easiest
Way”: Gladys Moncrieff in “Katitika”—and there
were films galore.
“The Bulletin’s” third Metonic cycle was
concluded with No. 3000 on August 11, 1937.
Editor, J. E. Webb; cartoonists, Norman Lindsay,
Scorfield and Frith. Lindsay’s cartoon showed
British Labor veteran Lansbury sailing through
stormy seas, gazing through a telescope at a vision
of Peace. A leading article described the recent
retirement of Stanley Baldwin from the British
Prime Ministership as “if anything, belated,” and
hoped for better things under Chamberlain. The
new Prime Minister had just sent “a personal letter
of friendship” to Mussolini in reply to the Duce’s
“cordial message.” Italian radio had ceased its
anti-British propaganda and a paper in Rome
which had lampooned Anthony Eden had been
“punished.” A second leader celebrated Mildura’s
jubilee and Plain English articles discussed B.H.P.
steel, divorce-reform, s.-p. betting, Pacific shipping,
cancer-research, the glorification of Government
boards and the influence. of the alphabet on the
selection of Senate candidates. Scorfield drew an
amusing full-page on domestic felicity and Frith
a bookie pointing the bone at Tubby Stevens’s
betting-bill. R. W. D. Weaver had recently suc-
ceeded Dan Levy as Speaker of the N. S. Wales
Assembly; Frith caricatured him for Personal
Items; Dubois performed a similar operation on
Canadian Trade Commissioner Cosgrave. Joke-
blocks were supplied by Scorfield, Norman and
Percy Lindsay, G. K. Townshend, Lock, Mollie
Horseman, Jcrlliffe, Lance Mattinson, Gill, Jim
Phillips and Stuart Peterson; short stories by H. C.
McKay, Margaret Trist and Alan Hill, with illustra-
tions by John Mills, Norm Rice and Lock. The
poets were apparently hibernating; only “T. the R.”
(Andree Hayward) and M. K. Bennett were present.
Which brings us into the fourth Metonic cycle,
and, after a thousand weeks, to this, the Calippic
Number, which, for the sake of keeping the record
clear, is styled on the cover No. 4000. Contents
herewith.
Heading for Anarchy
BRITISH and Australian democracy have been
based on the rule of law, the acceptance
of the opinion of the majority and national unity
in crisis with foreign Powers. “Labor,” both in
Britain and Australia, seems to have completely
abandoned these principles and to have accepted
the theory that their party is an implacable
vanguard, not bound to accept the law, bound to
destroy any Government elected by a majority
opposed to them, even to the point of siding with
foreign opponents in conflict with their own Gov-
ernment. Australian “Labor” seems to have
stopped believing in democracy or in the right of
any party opposed to it to exist at all.
There have been plenty of striking examples
in the past few months of where this view is
leading. The A.W.U., particularly in Queensland,
spent years in establishing before the State
Industrial Commission —created by a “Labor”
Government dominated by the A.W.U. —the
principle that wages should move with the price
of wool. The A.W.U. fought hard on this principle.
The Industrial Commission accepted it. Shearers’
wages rose to record heights. Then wool-prices
fell and the Industrial Commission, applying the
principle on which the A.W.U. had insisted,
reduced shearing-rates, not commensurately with
the fall in wool-prices, which had bumped down
from 85d. average to 59d. in two years, but by 10
per cent. The A.W.U. flatly refused to recognise
the decision of the tribunal. It determined at any
cost to defeat the law and the employers.
For months the wool districts of Queensland
have been the scene of ugly lawlessness. Men who
obey the law and accept the award are treated by
the A.W.U. organisers as if they were criminal
outlaws.
Families are bullied and threatened, store-
keepers. blackmailed and blackballed for supplying
food and clothing to lawful workers and graziers.
Even the Government itself is impudently
ordered about and threatened with destruction if
it dares to oppose the Communist-backed junta of
the Brisbane Trades Hall.
This spirit permeates the whole of “Labor”
proceedings. Arbitration is a plank in “Labor’s”
platform everywhere. But when arbitration courts
fail to meet the demands of unions the A.C.T.U.
proceeds to try to promote a wholly-illegal black-
mailing strike which will shut down national
industry completely. When the desperate Cahill
Government takes steps to have transport-wages and
abuses in overtime investigated there is the threat
of wholesale strike. The post-office employees
demand a £2-a-week rise. They do not go to the
arbitration court; they institute a regulation strike
—a wicked device invented by the Communists.
Heedless of the injury they cause to the sick, heed-
less of the inconvenience to hundreds of thousands
of their fellow-Australians and the complete dislo-
cation of business, they seek to bludgeon the
community, secure in the knowledge that the guilty
lawbreakers at their head will suffer no punishment.
So it goes on. Everything the Federal Gov-
ernment does is obstructed, criticised, attacked
savagely by “Labor” and its politicians on the
theory that nothing matters save that “Menzies”
—who is again and again elected to office by a
substantial majority—“must be destroyed.” Even
close alliance with the Communists is considered
ethical in pursuing this ruthless war of attrition.
And inside the “Labor” party itself the same
ideals are applied.
When Dr. Evatt decided to clean-up the section
of the party which objected to his outrageous
proceedings before the Petrov commission a
combined-unions minority-group was formed. The
constitutionally-elected majority A.L.P. executive,
following the old ideas of freedom of speech and
agitation, allowed it to exist and function —and
paid dearly. The executive found itself the victim
of this minority body, which undermined majority
rule and persuaded the Federal executive to destroy
the constitutional government of the N. S. Wales
branch, replacing it with a dictatorship.
This Communist-minded body has nothing
liberal about it. No freedom of speech or agitation
for it. No opportunity for the rank-and-file to
express a view.
So soon as any man within the party opens
his mouth he is flung out. So soon as any branch
dares to criticise a regime which has a Communist
policy and which is unelected, it is liquidated. An
air of menace and intrigue hangs over the party.
In a word, force and dictatorship have replaced
democracy as the guiding principle of the so-called
Australian Labor Party. It has abolished liberty
within its own ranks and is doing its best to abolish
it by threat and boycott throughout the Common-
wealth. It aims to produce a one-party perpetual
rule and a condition of affairs in which no man
will dare to speak or vote except in line with the
thought of union- and junta-leaders.
In international affairs, as between the party
and the nation, the same rule applies. If Nasser is
being opposed by Menzies, then “Labor” must
support Nasser, even though he is a brutal armed
thug, a menace to world peace, an inciter to violence
and rebellion, an aggressor, in fact everything that
“Labor” professes to hold in abhorrence.
It is easy to catalogue a long line of instances
in which Dr. Evatt. leader of the party of force
and boycott and sabotage in industrial and political
matters in Australia, has screamed for British
justice; British justice for the victims of “the Petrov
conspiracy”; British justice for the Communists of
Australia and Malaya, the Red Chinese, the
Kremlin, anybody but Australian employers and
political opponents.
Surely the irresponsible leaders of “Labor”
must see that the road they are taking leads
nowhere but to anarchy!


THE ROCK-’N’-ROLLERS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence Review
The Prime Minister's announcement that
there would be a full review of defence
and the debate on the Defence Estimates
in the House of Representatives should
prove antidotes in some degree to the
campaigns now in progress to prove that
defence-plans are mere warmongering,
that they are evidences of squander-
mania or that a number of reporters,
old soldiers and others could do infinitely
better than is being done.
The Communists and the Federal
Opposition, together with certain unions,
appear to be ready to do anything and
everything to destroy confidence in the
defence-programme; to promote fear
that the atomic experiments may wither-
off the delicate Australian population,
despite the fact that very much heavier
ones have been carried out close to U.S.
inland cities without affecting even the
local thirst.
Among young people there has been
a sinister campaign—extended to the
employers' where possible against
national-service training, which is held
up as useless, a mere load on industry.
And “squandermania” and “incompet-
ence” have their symbol in the St. Mary’s
filling-plant, represented as a war-
profiteers’ white elephant.
The Government’s greatest weakness
has lain in two factors —the first that all
military doctrine throughout the world,
together with the nature of war, imple-
ments of war and theories of tactics and
use of weapons, is at the cross-roads.
Any changes which are made now are
only tentative and experimental, yet
expensive beyond the bounds of hdman
experience. Invention and development,
the production of new metals, the growth
of speed, fire-power and mobility are all
screaming ahead at a hot pace. Nobody
can yet tell what secrets are up the sleeves
of nations, what the effect of speed and
high fire-power and other factors will
be until war has produced the answer.
Even in the comparatively slow-moving
war of 1939-45 this was proved very
early in the piece.
In these circumstances all any country
can do is to improvise for emergency, to
have something to tide over the battle
until actual conditions and location of
fighting are determined, to have as large'
a reservoir as possible of manhood which
has had some basic training in military
movement —which knows what an order
is and how to respond to it; which has
had some experience of communal living
in military camps, which understands the
rudiments of command, of‘movement by
vehicle and air, so that much of the
preliminaries needful with raw recruits
can be skipped. Also, there is needed
a large body of officers and n.c.o.s ready
to be sent immediately on the outbreak
of hostilities to work more advanced
than teaching raw rookies how to hold
a rifle and march in step.
The second factor in the Govern-
ment’s weakness has lain in its public-
relations failure. The sensationalism
which surrounded Sir Frederick Shedden’s
“no” to the question “Can you mobilise
the defence forces immediately?” was
unwarranted, because it is true of every
other democratic country in the world,
the United States not excepted. But it
should have been answered earlier.
There is only one group of countries
so nearly mobilised that they could
spring into attack on the instant —the
Communist countries, which live armed
to the teeth and with their forces and
equipment at aggressive level.
The Australian defence set-up is full
of weaknesses, as is every other demo-
cratic defence set-up. But, for all that,
it is far more advanced than it has ever
been before in peace-time, both in the
numbers of the actual trainees and trained
nucleus and training and organisational
officer cadres. It is more advanced, also,
in facilities for armament and air- and
ground-transport. And with a large
number of critics this is the main
grievance.
It would be an even greater grievance
if the Government took the steps and
incurred the. expense which would ensure
that the Commonwealth could spring
fully-armed to its own defence in emerg-
ency. Apart from the fact that this
would call for conscription at least of
the type used in Great Britain with
terms of 18 months or more in camp, its
other features would set the Wards and
the Evatts shouting about warmongery
and aggression and screaming that the
doctrine of force is obsolete and that
everything should be left to U.N.O. and
the Security Council.
Town Hod Politics
Three years ago, with a Sydney City
Council election pending and with the
air thick with the stench of ancient fruit-
barrows, the “Labor” rulers of N. S.
Wales moved swiftly. While ‘strongly
denying that they could smell anything,
they nevertheless completely changed the
whole basis of municipal-election, so far
as Sydney was concerned, by abolishing
the long-established ward-system and
making the whole city one electorate
voting under proportional-representation.
They then cancelled all “Labor” nomina-
tions and named a ticket themselves,
packed with men who could be relied on
to vote at their party’s call. Newspaper
allegations of graft were replied to with
the Sydney City Council (Disclosure
of Allegations) Act —the vicious Press
Gag which was condemned by the press
of the free world. As a foregone conclu-
sion the “Labor” ticket was returned,
though not entirely intact. As a further
result Sydney was presented with its first
Communist aldermen.
A delightful thing about Sydney is
that it grows older but doesn’t 'change.
Council elections are again pending. The
fruit-barrows and all they stand for are
still with us. Allegations of graft are
again with us. And, to complete the
picture, the “Labor” bosses are trying
once again to change the system of elec-
tion—they want to drop p.-r. and revert
to the old ward-system. It isn’t the
presence of the Communists that is
worrying them. It’s the prospect that the
intrusion of a Democratic “Labor” team
may split the “Labor” vote and, under
p.-r., give the Liberals and Civic Reform
aldermen a majority. So far Local
Government Minister Renshaw has
refused to sponsor the change, but any-
thing could happen before election-day.
Even another Press Gag Bill!
~o- .
A Bluff Called
It seemed after the weekend that the
A.W.U. was not having it all its own
way in the Queensland “black-wool dis-
pute” ; some of its leaders must be wish-
ing that they had followed the example
of the employers and accepted the com-
promise award suggested by the Queens-
land Government. Till then the A.W.U.
apparently felt that with the Storemen
and Packers’ Union, the Waterside
Workers’ Federation and the Brisbane
Trades Hall behind it, it could go the
limit in impudence.
Last week, with 295,000 bales worth
nearly £3O million piled-up in the stores,
with nine ships already waiting or due
within a few days and with sales pro-
ceeding actively and briskly at prices com-
parable with those offering in southern
markets, the storemen and packers and
A.W.U. classing-employees went on strike
and the Government at last acted. A
State of Emergency was declared ; the
strikers were officially ordered to return
to work by Monday, October 8, and
the wool-brokers were ordered to re-
employ them. The price of disobedience
was fixed at a £lOO fine.
The Communist-run Brisbane Trades
Hall Disputes Committee, strengthened
by the fact that the Government had the
support of only 27 members out of 47
in the miserable Queensland Parliament-
ary caucus, firmly “rejected” the declara-
tion of an emergency. The striking unions
picketed stores and wharves and it was
announced that neither “black” -nor
“white” wool from the current sales would
be handled.
Matters then began to go wrong for
the union bludgeoners. The A.C.T.U.
coyly announced that it was not involved;
as the dispute was confined to Queens-
land. H. O. Davis, Federal president of
the A.W.U., said in Melbourne that the
dispute was not likely to spread to other
States. Neither the A.C.T.U. nor the
Federal A.W.U. is in shape for a Com-
monwealth-wide fight.
Graziers announced that 700 free
workers would be ready to replace'union
labor on Monday if needed.
Then 56 A.W.U. wool-sorters defied the
A.W.U. and a mass-meeting of sorters
decided by 180 votes to 4 to go back to
work. As a final slap in the face, the
senior Federal officials of the Storemen
and Packers’ union took action, which
frightened the bullying Trades Hall
leaders into an announcement that “now
the Government was a legal party to the
dispute it should bring the parties together
to achieve a just settlement.” This was
a new tone. A. A. Kyle, Federal secre-
tary of the Storemen and Packers’ Union,
who flew to Brisbane to attend a meet-
ing of union members involved, said
firmly: “I want to see the strike settled.
I don’t want our members to be made the
scapegoats any longer,” The union’s
meeting by 192 votes to 128 decided that
they would return to work on Monday.
This leaves the A.W.U. stranded, its
only hope that transport workers will
refuse to carry the wool and the Com-
munist-led wharfies refused to load it. But
if they do, the Commonwealth will then
act. s
Meanwhile, the A.W.U. is applying
lawless methods of intimidation against
shearers who obey the legal award. It
remains to be seen whether the Gair Gov-
ernment will now have the courage to dis-
cipline _the thugs who for months have
been intimidating country districts.
Freedom for the Duke
“C.C.”: In case Newcastle, Charters
Towers, Albany and comparable cities
vying with Melbourne for the title of
Queen City of the South are wondering
how the Victorian capital came to be the
only Australian hamlet entitfed to conier
the freedom of the city on the Duke of
Edinburgh, the answer is that it has been
done by a bill rushed through the Vic-
torian Parliament.
For many years Melbourne City
Council has been trying to interest suc-
cessive Governments in such a bill ; the
approach of the Olympics, and the advent
of a sympathetic Government, enabled
the measure to be passed.
It provided a field day for iconoclasts
in the Legislative Council, where the
Government is in a minority, and an
amendment was forced to ensure that
the Freedom conferred no privileges. This
was done at the insistence of the Country
party, which apparently wanted to make
certain the Duke wouldn’t travel to St.
Kilda by tram for nix.
Although a few quaint customs are still
preserved in the Freedoms of the lesser
British cities, any real privileges were
abolished under the Municipal Corpora-
tion Act (1835) and the Honorary
Freedom of Borough Act (1885). You
can’t buy a city’s Freedom in Britain
today with either money or gift; the
qualifications are birth, service or
marriage.
The conferring of the Freedom of Mel-
bourne on the distinguished visitor will
give the Lord Mayor something to say
and is preferable to those interminable,
never-listened-to addresses of welcome.
The Duke, of course, won’t be the only
visitor to receive it next month.
The Dulles Mystery
The most depressing portion of the scene
in the Suez Canal mirage is in Washing-
ton. It may be that the U.S. attitude is
due to the fact that the Presidential
election takes place on November 6, but
it is scarcely an attitude of which think-
ing Americans can be proud.
Mr. Dulles virtually demolished the
Canal Users’ Association. He has made
no move to deter American pilots from
volunteering to serve with the Egyptians.
He led the European Powers to their
position by the argument that economic
pressure could be put on Egypt to do
the trick. Then he announced that the
United States had no intention of engag-
ing in economic warfare. He uttered
no protest against the European
Finance Corporation loan of £l5-
million to Egypt. He asserts, despite
all earlier talk of boycotting the canal,
that the U.S. Government cannot direct,
American ships to go round the Cape or
require them to take Canal Users’
Association pilots or pay tolls to any
given agency.
He now says that the pressure exerted
by going round the Cape would be very
small, and “I think you have to think a
bit in terms of the fact that if you try to
hurt Egypt to the extent of a dollar at
a cost to yourself of 1000 dollars or
10,000 dollars, that isn’t a very profitable
exercise in the long run.... the idea that
any grave economic blow can be struck
at Egypt through the non-use of the
canal is quite a false conception.”
In official U.S. statements no one
seems eager to dwell on the real nature
of Nasser as shown by his utterances and
written creeds —those expressed, for
example, in his Philosophy of Revolu-
tion which is now compulsory reading in
Egyptian schools and which contains his
confession that once “I thought of
assassinating many whom I regarded as
obstacles to our country and its future,”
and whose engaging reminiscences include
passages like this
We selected one whom we found essential
to put out of the way [a fellow Egyptian,
of course] The plot was to shoot him as
he returned home at night. We organised a
squad of assault 1 went out myself
with the execution squad.... The person we
wanted to put out of the way came, and
bullets were fired at him...,1 started my
motor-car and dashed away from the scene
....Cries, wailings and moans suddenly
rang in my ears.
It is sirange that the American State
Department and the American press,
usually imbued with so righteous a
missionary spirit and eagerness to reform
the world and sternly repress the wrongs
of “colonialism” and brutal tyranny,
should feel little moral indignation
against the author of such passages who
is imposing a cruel and cynical military
dictatorship on Egypt with imperialist-
expansionist intentions.
Even Mr. Dulles’s announcement of
support for the Anglo-French resolution
at the Security Council doesn’t dispel the
feeling that powerful forces in the United
States appear to be considering whether
the canal can be absorbed into the Ameri-
can colonial empire. If the reliable
New York “Times” can be believed, U.S.
financial interests are planning some
arrangement with Nasser which will
enable them to become its joint con-
trollers. This to the exclusion of those
who have built and maintained the canal
and particularly, the British, who
throughout most of its existence have
protected it at the cost of much
blood and money, to the benefit of the
world as a whole.
Vintage Cars
“D ”: Two Melbourne used-car dealers,
Hyman and Maurice Markoff, outbid
about 200 others for two “vintage” cars
discovered in the garage of a Thornbury
(Melb.) widow where they had languished
since her husband died in 1940.
The Markoffs acquired a 1909 Renault
for £275 and a 1911 T-Model Ford for
£l3O to add to their stable, which already
includes a 1908 De Dion, 1910 Rolls,
1911 Studebaker, 1915 Hupmobile and
1916 Overland.
As with wines, there is some appalling
snobbery in car vintages, and if Rex
Turner, the Sydney businessman who
owns an antique-car museum at his
Mosman houjse, isn’t talking through his
bonnet, only the Renault and the De Dion
in the Markoff stable are bluebloods.
Rex Turner, who has gone ,to London
for the London-Brighton (Genevieve)
trial, maintains that a vintage car is one
made in 1909 or earlier. Others may be
veterans, but not vintage! Abroad with
Turner is a true aristocrat with no bar-
sinister—a 1901 Oidsmobile.
There’s a Vintage Car Club in Mel-
bourne (secretary: T. D. Willey,. 34
Fernhill-road, Sandringham), and the
“Argus” for the last couple of years has
conducted a vintage-car trial of 28 miles
from the city to Brighton and back.
About 50 veterans, twice as many as
for the first trial, turned out for the
second, although the “Argus” didn’t
insist on the production of their blood-
lines, and thousands turned out to see
them rock-’n’-roll. So the vintage
enthusiasts are putting on a show at the
Olympic Games. That’s one event the
Russians won’t win.
Hospitals and Taxes
A poll among State Treasury officials in
Victoria would probably yield unanimous
agreement on the two chief factors for
the latest crisis in the financial affairs of
the public hospitals: their growth, and
the inadequacy of reimbursements from
Canberra to Victoria.
Capital expenditure in the current
financial year will be about ,£4-million.
As each stage of this building is com-
pleted, maintenance-charges increase, and
so do the number of patients. Moreover,
Victoria is absorbing 40 per cent, of the
intake of migrants, so that, in new arrivals
alone, there is a inounting total each year
seeking hospital beds.
Recently hospital-fees were increased,
and a means-test adopted, but the fees are
still inadequate, and many patients leave
hospitals without paying a penny; so
hospital boards are beginning to look
back again at the national-insurance
scheme which the Commonwealth shelved
on the outbreak of war.
Current deficits are Alfred, £120,000;
Royal Women’s, £65,000; St. Vincent s,
£BO,OOO ; Royal Children’s, £97,000 ; Eye
and Ear, £35,000; Prince Henry's,
£32,000 ; Queen Victoria, £67,000 ; Royal
Melbourne, £65,000.
The crisis had been emphasised by the
decision of the Queen Victoria Hospital to
suspend work on its new community sec-
tion, the Jessie McPherson, because it was
living on credit from tradesmen. the
Queen Vic., managed by Dame Mabel
Brookes and a clever, zealous, all-women
staff for years, has long been a model of
an Australian large hospital, but the sort
(<Continued on next page)


of deficits hospital-managements run into
these days cannot be wiped off by a swift
round of visits to well-off citizens and a
slap-up ball.
The decision was countermanded when
the State Government produced another
£125,000 for the year, but hospital build-
ing has become a chancy gamble for the
boards, and the patient and courageous
nuns at St. Vincent’s proceed with their
rebuilding-scheme only month by month.
Hospitals and charities get £5,875,000
from revenue this year, plus £2,455,000
from Tatt.’s, £850,000 from the tote, and
£320,000 residuum from last year’s vote ;
total, £9.5-million. Last year’s Budget
provided £8.2-million for hospitals, but
an extra £600,000 had to be. found during
the year. This year’s vote is £ 1.9-million
greater.
State Treasury officers estimate Victoria
would receive another £B-million a year
if the State Government levied its own
taxation, and this explains why Bolte is
pressing ahead with the case against the
Commonwealth. Last year Victoria
received £45.8-million tax-reimbursement.
This was £l7 14s. a head, the lowest in
Australia. It compared with £lB 10s. a
head in N. S. Wales, £2O 4s. for Queens-
land and much higher disbursements for
the three smaller States. The Australian
average reimbursement is £2O 13s.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney “Mirror's” fivepence, now ;
So, also, is the “Sun” —
One rather thinks of doing
One’s own murders, doesn’t one ?
• •
Cahill says he’ll go to the Canberra
conference with an open mind. Must’ve
had a major operation!
• •
Voting in the Tasmanian election takes
place on Saturday. It may be the last
poll held under proportional-representa-
tion, the system which has kept the
Assembly in a state of near-deadlock for
many years. At State elections the five
Federal divisions each elect six members
to the Assembly. To return four mem-
bers in any division a party has to secure
nearly 58 per cent, of the votes. In
consequence, except when a popular
Independent intrudes, the most likely
result is three “Labor” and three Liberal
members in each division—as happened
at the last election.
To permit the formation of a Govern-
ment in such circumstances Tasmania
passed an Act providing that when party-
strengths are equal the party polling the
highest aggregate of votes shall form the
Government, the other party providing a
Speaker and Chairman of Committees.
On Saturday the position won’t be so
clear-cut as at the previous election. The
Anti-Communist “Labor” party is running
a team in every division. Unless it polls
better than it did at the Senate election
last December it won’t win any seats,
but its second preferences will probably
decide the last seat in every division.
• •
The poll in the Barker (S.A.)
by-election to choose a successor
to the late Archie Cameron will
also be held on Saturday. There
are four candidates t Dr. A. J. Forbes
(Lib.), R. A. Dettman (“Labor”), B. R.
Crowe (Anti-Corn. “Labor”) and W. P.
McAnaney (Ind. Lib.). The “Labor”
candidate and the Ahti-Com. “Labor”
bloke are exchanging fourth preferences.
• o
All the big guns have been brought into
the Barker campaign. Cameron’s majority
last December was a big one, but Archie’s
personal following brought him many
votes. No one knows how many, so
“Labor” is going flat-out and the Libs,
are taking no chances. Menzies and the
Doc. have both spoken in the electorate;
so have Senators, M.H.R.s and State
Assemblymen of all parties.
• •
According to one of the Packer papers
the female who founded strip-tease acts
did so because she was faced with the
alternative —Strip or Starve. But surely
Packer isn’t faced with the same stark
choice!
• •
In the N.S.W. Assembly C. B. Cutler,
Country-party member for Orange, asked
Transport Minister Enticknap whether
the Government intended to place further
restrictions on road-transport or to
increase taxation on the carriage of goods
by road. Enticknap said the Govern-
ment intended, if a way could be found,
to make road-hauliers pay a fair and
just contribution to compensate for the
destruction they were causing to the
roads. If goods were transported by road
some railways in country areas would
have to be closed.
• •
Hyland’s Victorian Country party is
running true to its two-bob-each-way
form. It supported the Hire Purchase
Bill brought in by “Labor’s” young hope,
Galbally, in the Legislative Council,
knowing full well that the Government,
which it nominally supports, would have
the numbers to defeat the bill when it
reached the Assembly.
• •
“Hans Hard”: The roll of the Queens-
land Legislative Assembly makes a fine
point of differentiation between Uni-
versity honors, “officer” decorations and
other marks of distinction. Dr. Dittmer
is credited with his 8.A., M. 8., B.S. and
B.Sc.; Dr. Noble with his M. 8., 8.5.; and
Harold Bourne Taylor with his D.S.O.
But the Leader of the Opposition, Frank
Nicklin, and his stablemate Jim Heading,
are* listed as merely “Esquire.” Nicklin
has the M.M. and Heading the C.M.G.,
D.C.M. and M.M., but these are merely
civilian and military rankers’ decorations,
not to be acknowledged by a democratic
“Labor” Government.
• •
Professor Bland’s Public Accounts
Committee is still on the the track of the
taxpayers’ money. Its report speaks
critically of a habit which it suspects
some Government departments have
cultivated. The suspicion is that the
departments, when told to reduce their
estimates, do so, but then go ahead and
spend at the original rate as if nothing
had happened. Then they submit the
bill for the difference, which is included
in the Supplementary Estimates. The
report comments that it is not enough
for a Minister or his department to “rest
upon their preliminary estimates, hoping,
if not confident, that they will be given
a supplementary vote if they overspend
their appropriation. They must take
positive steps to see that Government
policy is carried out.” That’s the stuff
to give ’em!
• •
South Australia is to duplicate the
Morgan-Whyalla pipeline which takes
Murray water around the top of Spencer
Gulf, Playford told his S.A. Assembly last
“l’m not taking any Russian pilot. We'll go round the Cape!"
week. It’s a long-term plan, route not yet
surveyed, but most likely on t’other side
of the Flinders Range to the existing line.
• •
By the Weekend Trades and Labor
Councils in five States had voted on the
A.C.T.U.’s proposed one-day strike over
quarterly-adjustments. Victoria, South
Australia and Queensland had voted in
favor of the stoppage; N. S. Wales and
Tasmania against. This left the decision
with Westralia, whose vote was to be
given yesterday.
• •
“Uramao”: The Estimates presented in
New Zealand’s Parliament included
details of contributions made to inter-
national organisations, some of which
show scant gratitude. There is one body,
however, that won’t cause much loss of
sleep if it defaults. Registered as a
member of the Third International Con-
gress on Criminology, the Dominion
contributes £7 this year. The sum didn’t
arouse much discussion when brought
up for formal passing.
• •
Cost of conducting External Affairs in
Canberra and in about 30 posts through-
out the world (some of them seemingly
remote from any Australian interests)
will exceed £2-million this year. Minister
Casey believes the service is of high
standard, but denies that it is being con-
ducted “on the cheap,” although, as he
told Parliament, the cost per head of
Australian population of this overseas
representation is under 4s. 6d. For
Holland the comparative figure is 13s. 4d.,
for Canada 9s. 3d., for Britain 7s. lOd.
and for New Zealand 7s. 9d. Casey
said he was proud of our representatives
—and of their wives —and stressed that
the quality of reporting and representa-
tion, the two important things, was by
no means dependent on the size of a post
and the number of men stationed there.
• •
“Stromlo”: Russians and Egyptians
will be among the visitors to Canberra
next week for the Unesco-Australia
symposium on arid-zone climatology, and
for the initial meetings of the Advisory
Council, on which 10 nations are repre-
sented. Past meetings of this body, which
was established as a result of a meeting
in Paris in 1949, have been held in
Turkey, France, India and the United
States. Primary purpose is to collate
the information gathered throughout the
world by the scientists engaged in study-
ing desert and dry areas and in finding
ways of increasing productivity in them,
and then to disseminate that information
to the nations which can put it to
effective use.
Sixty scientists will meet in Canberra
and in Melbourne, and there’ll be study
tours to Broken Hill and Mildura.
Official languages for the talks are
English and French, and there’ll be
several interpreters in attendance.
a •
Overdramatisation of strikes because
of the close link between industrial
matters and political policies was blamed
by Harold Holt for misleading impres-
sions gained abroad about Australian
industrial affairs. He told the Clothing
Convention in Canberra that, although
there were some trouble-spots in Aus-
tralia, the average working-time lost per
man in this country was only one-third of
a working-day a year. He opposed collec-
tive bargaining, which even in America
usually operated only after long and
costly strikes. In Australia the public
interest was safeguarded by industrial
tribunals.
• •
“In the ACT”: Evei) before the postal
strike Davidson, P.M.G., had been
marked out in the inner councils of the
Country party as a man who would be
both prepared and able to carry on the
party’s traditions in and out of Federal
Parliament. It’s no secret that the party
has been unhappy about the prospects of
. succession. Page’s retirement (although
he is still a potent force behind the
scenes), the effects on Fadden of the
burdens of office and the rigors of cam-
paigning and the absence of any out-
standing talent among the new recruits
have worried the party-leaders—and have
given some encouragement to those
Liberals who have been predicting the
demise of the Country party for the last
20 years. McEwen is a man of great
ability and considerable ambition, but
his stocks are not improving. Some
insiders claim that if the leadership came
to a vote McEwen mightn’t muster more
than two or three votes, and that David-
son would win “hands down.” No one
wants to see “Artie” out of harness yet,
but he himself might welcome some sort
of respite.
• •
“Actin’’: Liberal-party Federal execu-
tives may urge a “Hoover-type commis-
sion” into the public service ; members
of Parliament like McColm (Q.) and
Leslie (W.A.) may call for an investiga-
tion. But the Government sits pat and
the public service sits pretty. In the Reps,
recently Leslie pointed out that the cost
of administration had risen in a year
from £52-million to £56-million, and
urged that the Public Service Board itself
should be investigated. McColm said
there were many people in the service
not doing anything like a full day’s work.
What has happened about all this?
Nothing. What is likely to happen? My
guess is—nothing.
• •
Three chemical engineers, Professor
Klar, Dr. R. H. Buchanan and Dr. G. H.
Roper, have submitted to the N. S. Wales
Government and the Joint Coal Board
a report on plans for the development of
a large-scale chemical industry using
coal as a raw material. It is claimed that
such a scheme could reduce imports by
£5O-million a year, at the same time
increasing exports.
• •
“Actin’’: Many people besides L. A.
Mullen, a former R.A.N. lieut.-
commander, have been disturbed at the
possibility that Russian scientific bases,
situated in our Antarctic territory with
our permission, could be used for war-
like purposes in the event of war. Mullen
told an ex-navalmen’s congress in Can-
berra that the Soviet base on Drygalski
Island was close enough to launch rockets
against Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, Can-
berra, Wellington, Dunedin and Auck-
land, and to stage rocket- and air-attacks
against shipping in the Southern Ocean.
He also claimed that the base was manned
by between 250 and 300 men, not all of
whom were scientists or technicians, and
that in the Westralian ports where the
Russians had been given staging facilities
it was firmly believed that the Soviet
effort greatly exceeded the requirements
of a scientific expedition. External
Affairs Minister Casey, questioned in the
Reps., said the Russians had a base on
Haswell Island and another on Drygalski
Island, although he did not know of any
station being established on the latter.
The Russians were there at the invitation
of Australia for the International
Geophysical Year, and there was no
reason to believe that any station had
been established for other than scientific
reasons. The Russians were also pro-
posing to establish two inland stations
for the I.G.Y.
• •
“Mugga Way”: One of the candi-
dates in the U.S. Presidential elec-
tion is popularly known as an
“egghead,” and eggs have figured
notably in some Australian poli-
tical campaigns of the past. Nowadays,
however, the subject of eggs is a serious
one, as any housewife will testify,
and nothing to raise levity is
contained in a solemn treatise, “The
Egg Situation,” issued by the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics in Canberra.
Between the announcement that the total
output of shelled eggs “from controlled
production in Australia” in 1955-56 is
estimated at 103-million dozen, and the
prediction that the outlook for the export
of shell-eggs and egg-pulp is “reasonably
favorable in the short term,” are 16 pages
of analysis and tables.


Society
“AN IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
nrHE N. S. Wales Department of Lifts
and Scaffolding is housed on the
second-floor of a building in Sydney’s
Lower George-street. There’s no lift. —
“Oliver Filter.”
+*+ >l+
“Geep”: Newstralians still wrestling
with English could be forgiven a gesture
of despair on reading in the press that our
aboriginal actor Tudawali is now sporting
“a colorful black beard.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Charles”: At the first of a series of
private seances I was advised to buy
tickets in the Queensland Golden Casket,
and the “control” would endeavor to stop
the machine at my number. At the next
session he said that he was sorry ; he was
unable to f ght his way near enough to the
machine owing to the crowd of other
spirits trying to do the same thing for
their relatives on earth. It’s nice to think
they’re still thinking of us, but what
about “gone to their long rest”?
♦J*
“Pip Tok”: A drunk making his
umpteenth appearance in the Perth Police
Court gave as his excuse: “I’ve been very
worried about the Suez Canal.”
“So l took a memory-training course... and then joined-up to forget!”
Judge Adrian Curlewis
• opened the Toowoomba (Q.) Carnival of
1 Flowers, where one of the floats was
called. “Seven Little Australians.” The
radio-announcer pointed the compliment
by telling listeners that Ethel Turner was
Mrs. Curlewis, and Mr. Duggan said in
his speech that Judge Curlewis fought
for his country in the late war, although
his age would probably have granted him
exemption—l suppose judges don’t mind
being old, but it would have completed
the evidence to have mentioned that
Judge Curlewis is the second of his name,
and that Ethel Turner is his mother.
❖ *l* ❖
“Youanmi”: The current intimate revue
at Sydney’s Phillip-street Theatre includes
a rather devastating skit on “Andrea,”
who covers social and other doings for
“Truth.” It misses one of her unsuspected
talents, however. I met her outside the
Tiv., and she said, “How do you get a
taxi in these parts?” “Whistle for it,
I s’pose ; but 1 can’t,” I replied. Where-
upon she shamed me by putting her finger
and thumb between her lips and emitted
a fine old piercing bush whistle. The
taxis bobbed up like rabbits.
❖ * ❖
“Griff”: Wfien M’Lud Mayor happens
to be a lady what does protocol decree
regarding a Mayoress? At Portland (Vic.)
they appointed the wife of the Deputy
Mayor. Still, what if the Deputy Mayor
had happened to be a woman?
♦> ♦> *i*
“Fenix”: I know we are living in an
age of specialisation, but I think I have
now seen the ultimate—a van in a Sydney
street bearing on its side the inscription
“Door Closer Repair Specialist.”
♦j* * *j»
“Meekatharra”: I’ve often wondered
how American ballet-dancer Rosella
Hightower, who, I understand, is part
American Indian, cafne by such a
peculiarly Australian Christian-name. I
put the question to Katherine Dunham,
currently in Sydney with her admirable
team of dancers. Miss Dunham had
never heard of Rosehill, or of our parrots
which derived the name of Rosella there-
from. But she did know the American
fancy for combining two names, such as
Rose and Ella.
* *
“G.M.”: Passing through Devonport
(Tas.) I was intrigued to see a savings-
bank on the corner of Steele- and Rooke-
street.
“Ladimac”: At a students’ performance
in Sydney of “Macbeth” there were four
Lady Macbeths to one Macbeth. The
dangers of polygamy could hardly be
painted more horribly.
♦> *i* &
“Emtee”: Our council, having to decide
whether there had been a genuine decline
of over 2000 dogs in the last 12 months or
whether there had been a corresponding
increase in defaulting owners, breathed
threats over the air and in the press.
But as it costs the council about £4 a
prosecution, and as it gets back only about
half this amount in fines and costs, a lot
of dog-owners went on lying doggo.
❖ +*♦ ❖
“Zorok”: Sydney “Telegraph” (tele-
vision-happy at the moment, since its
associated channel got away to the first
start) in a recent Sunday issue gave an
account, written by the victor, of “how
to win aTV jackpot-quiz.” The $64-
question (probably worth a bit more) was
“Who was hanged in 1734 for stealing
a black mare?” The answer, not given,
was presumably Dick Turpin (who else?);
but all authorities agree that Richard
swung for his crimes in 1759. Anyway,
perhaps it’s not surprising—there’s plenty
of other questions posed here and over-
seas by TV which haven’t been given
satisfactory answers yet.
*l* ♦> ❖
“W.P.T.”: It’s not often you get any-
thing for nothing these days. At the
mountain-spring swimming-pools at Law-
son, Leura, Katoomba and Blackheath on
the Blue Mountains there is no charge for
admission either to pool or dressing-shed.
Or will this set the turnstiles in motion?
*!♦ *j>
“Uramao”: Almost a Roman Satur-
nalia came before the magistrate at
Christchurch (N.Z.) when twins aged 50
were convicted and fined two-quid for
being drunk in a public place and for
procuring liquor while subject to a pro-
hibition-order: their front-handles,
Remus and Romulus.
*Z* ❖ ♦>
“Q. Ree”: A variety of cheap goods
made in Hong Kong is on sale in Fiji.
Not the least impressive is the perfume.
My small daughter brought home a tiny
vial of “Begonia 51,” which would .make
a man-eating Upas-tree of a shrinking
violet. Another time she poured a gift
of “Evening in Hong Kong” over her
hair, and, if it was a fair indication of
the scents exuded by that city in the
evening, one can believe that Hong Kong
will be one possession nobody will try to
wrest from Britain.
<s*
“Xped”: A good education, I con-
tended, was worth the sacrifice parents
had to make. “Well, yes, dear,” she
conceded pityingly, “I suppose you have
to do something with children like yours
who aren’t good at doing anything.”
Smugly she contemplated her husky band
of hewers-of-wood and drawers-of-water
while I regretfully passed by the latest
collection of spring hats.
❖ i*
“Moorapi”: A limited edition of
Don Quixote, with original watercolors
by Salvador Dali, is about to come off
a French press. “Limited” is right—one
volume only! Price: £15,600 Aust., to be
reduced to a mere £12,500 if an order is
placed before publication. It would be
impossible in New South Wales, where
the law requires that a copy of every
book be given to the Mitchell, the Fisher
and the National Libraries.
❖ ❖
“Avon”: If ever New Zealand amends
its coat-of-arms it could do worse than
find place for a bird’s wing, symbolic of
aviation. Since the war, registered aircraft
have increased from 54 to 604, pilots' of
commercial status or better from 91 to
575, student-pilots from 80 to 1305, and
aircraft engaged in scheduled passenger-
transport from 11 to 37. Aero-clubs have
soared from four to 26. Most significant
expansion has been in aerial topdressing ;■
10 years ago it was still a pipe-dream, but
in the year ended March 31 last light
aircraft dropped 405,000 tons of material,
chiefly on hilly, inaccessible country.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Simon”: Policemen doing point-duty
are the Nijinskys of the Force. One of
them operates with one blank, hand;
traffic not covered with the hand fore or
aft is at liberty to move through. Another
curves his little finger and leads the
traffic with all the deferent grace of an
old-timer leading his partner out for the
quadrilles ; another * emulates George
Rignold reciting “Once more into the
breach, dear friends, once more.” Another
gives lightning impressions of Franklin
drawing electricity towards him with his
kite. One officer must have done his
early training on a cattle-station, as he
goes through all the motions of cracking
a stockwhip. Nearest approach to a
human semaphore must be the man who
stays in action all the time with both
arms, every knuckle and joint bending
until you’d swear you heard his bones
crack. Bless ’em all!
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Vingter”: Redtape is bossing the
branch and Files is performing almost
the same tasks as he did when they both
joined on the same day almost half-a-
century ago. After 40 years of unques-
tioning discharge of Redtape’s behests
something inside Files must have snapped,
for, to an order voiced with particular
asperity by his superior, the underling
returned the fervent rejoinder, “Go to
!” Typists trembled and senior clerks
staggered. Redtape’s eyes flashed as he
surveyed his senile junior from top to
toe; then, purposefully pursing his lips,
he delivered the daddy of all raspberries.
That evening after five Redtape and Files
were seen, for the first time in the recol-
lection of the oldest hands, making their
way in company across to the pub on the
corner.
❖ ❖
“Aeolus”: Small wonder that Nina
Ponomareva, the Russian discus cham-
pion, succumbed to the temptation of
hats at about eight-bob a time. Marshal
Mac Duffie, in The Red Carpet, reveals
that during the whole of his 10,000-mile
trip through Russia he found that
women’s hats were priced at the
equivalent of between £5 and £l3 Aus-
tralian, and most women wore scarves as
a head-covering. Unskilled laborers in
a factory were paid the equivalent of £2O
per week ; this seems good money, but
with butter 375. 6d. a pound, milk 7s. 6d.
a quart and ordinary cottage cheese
12s. 6d. a pound it wouldn’t go far.
AD ASTRA
“Miles of slow-moving cars packed the main
highway into Sydney as holiday-makers returned
after the Labor Day weekend.”
Car after car after car after car
Upon the bushland trail;
Like instalment-collectors, they are,
Each on the other’s tail.
On Hire-purchase Highway the dreams
come true
That used to he so elusive :
The open road, the glorious view,
The being completely exclusive.
Out of the weekly workaday rut
And the city’s monotonous grind,
They’re free from every restriction but
The cars before and behind,
Each individual bumper-bar
Pointing the way to its personal star,
Car after car after car after car
After car after car after car after car.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


TN his Suez Canal speech the Prime
Minister had, for emphasis, repeated a
phrase. A member interjected, “Why
don’t you say it again?” Menzies replied,
“I shall. Again and again and again.”
That apparently rang a bell somewhere
in his subconscious, and he added, almost
in parenthesis, “Like the young lady
from Spain.” That rang a bell in my
subconscious. Just where did Bob hear
that one? —“Becks.”
♦j*
“D.”:' I’m still wondering about the
outcome of a small scene in the bus. A
frank six-year-old on his way to school
suddenly turned and spoke to a woman
sitting near him and said, “My Mum
says you diddled her out of a pound.”
The woman blushed scarlet and tried to
force an explanation
out of the youngster.
Air she managed to do,
apart from attracting
the attention of most
of the passengers, was
to wring from him a
repetition of “My Mum
says you diddled her
out of a pound.” She
relapsed into furious
silence, and I have a
feeling that, somewhere,
a beautiful friendship
has been broken.
* *■>
“Curie”: What it is
to be young and
innocent —or too lazy
to consult a dictionary!
I still shudder when I
think of the time a
friend asked if my
relationship with the
current boy-friend was
purely platonic. I
looked at him in horror
and exclaimed, “Oh,
no, nothing like that!”
“Arthur R.”: A
draughtsman - uncle
inscribed the Lord’s
Prayer four times
within the circle of a
threepenny - piece (B.
12/9/’56). Later he
wrote the Prayer twice
for me and still had
plenty of space left in
the circle for the date,
place of writing and a
few other details. He addressed
a letter to me in the same micro-
scopic calligraphy, and the
envelope, at first marked “No
Address,” came to me under
cover with a request for the
original for the Post-office
Museum.
♦jt *j* *j»
“Cash Count”: We have a
Dutch family in our street:
Grandpa, Mum and Dad, eight
kids. The children are indistin-
guishable frqm the locals —even
to arguing fiercely about
League football-teams. Mum
and Dad speak tolerable English
and have an enviable zest for
living ; only Grandpa seems to
find it hard to learn new ways.
Mostly he sits on the front-porch,
brooding. Yesterday I was sur-
prised to find him leaning over
the front-fence. At the sight
of me he broke into a voluble
stream of Dutch, and pointed
at a patch of the garden. My
■tulips had begun to bloom.
* ♦> ❖
“Dode”: “Mails back to
normal,” say the dailies; but
is this an advantage? In recent
months a paper from Melbourne
and one from Sydney both
clearly addressed N.S.W- took a
sea-voyage to New Zealand and
visited a couple of towns there,
eventually arriving here looking
dissipated. Two letters from my
solicitor in our country town posted at
different times with 12 miles to travel
apparently sank with all hands. Also a
letter to me posted in Sydney was never
seen again. Normal?
*:* * ❖
“Moorapi”: Soviet astronomers have
declared the ice-cap to be disappearing
from Mars ; Japanese astronomers main-
tain that it is still, there and is spreading,
but is hidden by a huge mass of clouds.
They have to wait until 1971 to have
another good look at it —the interesting
point here is that there are Russians and
Japanese who think there will be a 1971.
i* ❖ ❖
“Ranji”: An art-professor in the U.S.
who likened Elvis (“The Pelvis”) Presley
to the Greek gods of art was careful to
stipulate that the likeness was physical.
Interviewed on a Los Angeles radio-
station, Presley was asked whether he
preferred teenagers or older people.
“Teenagers,” he replied, and, asked why,
continued: “Well, I guess it’s because
they’re younger than older people.”
♦I I
“Mugga Way”: As a lifetime
researcher into various brews, I am
always attracted by the Commonwealth
Statistician’s annual analysis of the
industry. The 1954-55 issue, just out,
“Let’s go to the bank , honey pot, and fix up
about that joint-account.”
“you seem to fit perfectly into this Air Force setting, Diana."
shows that, while the output of N.S.W.
breweries was valued at little more than
that from the Victorian (£13,476,000 as
against £11,052,000), the value of the
materials used was higher in Victoria
(£7,405,000 as against £6,928,000) and
production-costs in Victoria were only
about half those in N.S.W. (£3,284,000
as against £6,035,000). As a drinker in
both those States, I’d like to know why—
though I gather from the press that
there’s little use asking the beer-barons
anything about anything.
* ❖ *
“Eureka”: Bought a packet of 9in.-by-
4in. manilla envelopes in a chain-store
and discovered only 16 instead of the
usual 25. The last packet of ordinary
was four short of the usual
25. Another way of putting the price
up?
❖ ❖
“Clem”: When the Perth hardware
firm of Sandovers celebrated their 75th
anniversary, members of the sales-staff
wore period-costume for a week; and
the stiff collars of the old days inust have
been hard wear indeed for modern
practitioners.
+*♦
“C.A.L.”: The unrest following
Nasser’s canal-grab is not yet as-wild as
the fights between rival mobs for the
control of Sydney’s Haberfield canal in
the first years of the century. A
Lewisham mob frequented the area of
an evening to play cards and two-up and
plan operations against the Marrickville
mob. The grapevine would warn of
impending assaults, the two gangs would
meet near Mungo Scott’s flourmill to battle
it out with fists, bottles, boots and blue-
metal. The victorious mob would control
the canal till the defeated regained their
strength or enlisted fresh reinforcements.
Old-timers of the Western Suburbs
referred to the overhead railway-bridge
between Summer Hill and Lewisham as
“Battle Bridge” in those days.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Fenix”: “Cross my heart,” said my
friend, a P.M.G. linesman, “one of our
regulations provides that we should never
climb a ladder unless we first tie it
securely at both top and bottom.”
Naturally, I wasn’t falling for a tall
story like that, but since reading some
of the regulations which apply in the
postal branch I’m beginning to wonder.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Narumee”: Drive-in cinemas seldom
provide glamor in the next berth as well
as on the screen, so when the New Aus-
tralian blonde at the wheel of the large
new car asked my husband if he would
“so kindly” move our four-wheeler over
a bit he obliged with servile grins. Miss
N.A. edged forward gingerly, but still the
colossus wouldn’t fit. My husband backed,
and nosed our car a good three-inches
nearer our speaker; another half-inch,
and we’d have scraped the duco. This
time, Miss N.A' made it, and she and my
husband exchanged gratified smiles. Then
Miss N.A. picked up her handbag and
prepared to alight and hunt tucker. Her
smile died fast. Her speaker blocked her
driving-side door. Our car blocked the
other front door. Miss N.A. attempted
to clamber into the back-seat. No gq.
These sheath dresses! And, yes, she
lowered her window, and asked my hus-
band if he would “so kindly” move to let
her out. But Lothario had degenerated
into a stay-put, and Miss N.A. degener-
ated into a very petulant person. She was
still saying things as she drove off to
another berth.
*j*
“Sir Jay”: A master at our school does
not believe in posting long notices on the
board, because he says no one reads them
through. If a long notice is unavoidable
he always makes a fairly-obvious spelling-
mistake near the beginning. Sometimes it
is allowed to stand, at other times it is
corrected in red and thus draws attention
to his “mistake.” Someone discovers it,
and before long there is a crowd around
the board reading it through to the bitter
end to find out if there are any more.
They move off and tell their mates, and
soon the whole school has read the
notice.
♦♦♦ *x+
“Renraw”: Accountant-father was not
happy about missing golf to rrlind children
while his wife spent Saturday morning
shopping. When. Mother returned, the
meticulous one proffered a report on the
morning’s goings-on:
Produced handkerchiefs for noses eight
times.
Soothed away tears 11 times.
Purchased toy balloons. Two per child.
Average life of balloon 15 seconds.
Number of Saturdays I will again child-
mind Nil.
* ❖ ❖
“Lily Ann”: “Nuts to National
Costumes” (B. 5/9/’56) reminded me of
an afternoon we spent on Volendam, an
island in the Zuyder Zee, “where,” the
guide-book informed us, “Dutch national
costume is still worn.” There were
narrow cobbled streets, quaint cottages
and lines of family-washing slung across
the streets from cottage to cottage —all
most convincingly primitive. Then,
through the back-door of one of the
quaint cottages, we espied the family
washing being coped-with—by a washing-
machine !
* ❖ ❖
“Maureen”: She swept through the
door, a vision in a fur-coat, a very smart
hat, and beautiful matching earrings,
necklace and bracelet; before the small
mirror she added unnecessary touches to
her faultless make-up, then she sat down
and crossed superbly-shod feet. The rest
of us, conscious of our pallid unkempt-
ness, eyed her with hostility. At length
one woman remarked: “Going on to a
wedding or something, dear?” “Oh, no,”
replied the vision. “But I always make
a special effort to look my best when I
come here. It does help, you know.”
Well, maybe she had something. The
scene was the dentist’s waiting-room,
EMACIATED MERCERY
“J. A. Turner, Queensland has com-
plained in Parliament that shiris and singlets
are being made shorter, as well as narrower in
the body.’’
When our beards were black, by shirt
We were adequately girt ;
Its generous length about our calves
descended.
It was wide, too, in the beam,
And you’d never bust a seam
Should you, by beer or victuals, be
distended.
You could use it as a tent
At a pinch ; its measurement
Was made in feet, not inches. Oh, a
snorter
Was that shirt in every way.
Singlets, too, had lots of “play”
But now they're making shirts and
singlets shorter.
You could once have made a sail
For a skiff out of the tail,
For shirts those days were built for two,
like bicycles;
You could wrap ’em round you twice,
Which was quite a good device
When circumambient air was filled with
icicles.
Singlets reached down near your hocks,
And you’d tuck them in your socks
To keep them anchored in the nether
quarter.
But such comforts now are fled;
Oh, tlfe future’s filled with dread
Now that -they’re making shirts and
singlets shorter.
We resign ourselves with gloom
To the lack of living-room
In shirts compressed, constricted and
truncated; *
To our singlets, with no slack,
Creeping slowly up the back
(As shrunken ones have, on me,
demonstrated).
Socks and pockets shortened, make
Me not mad. But Devil take
The hungry manufacturer or importer
Who imposes now upon
Us necessity to don
The shirts and singlets which get ever
shorter /
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“E. & 0.E.”: A recent luncheon-party
at Hobart celebrated a happening unique
in the Parliamentary history of Tasmania,
if not of the Commonwealth. Four
members of the House of Assembly are
sons of previous members who also served
together in e one Parliament. They are
Kevin Lyons (Braddon), Fred Marriott
(Bass), “Robbie” Best (Wilmot), and Tom
Pearsall (Franklin). Guest-of-honor was
the only surviving father, Capt. Frank
Marriott (M.H.A. for Darwin 1922-41
and for Bass 1941-46), who has another
son, Senator J. E. Marriott, at Canberra.
Joe Lyons was the first of the older
quartet to be elected to the Tasmanian
House. That was in 1909, and he
remained there till 1929, when he entered
Federal politics, becoming Prime Minister
in 1932. Kevin’s mother, Dame Enid
Lyons, was, of course, the first woman
M. for the same electorate (Darwin,
now Braddon).
• •
The formidable chin of George Hill,
general-manager of the National Bank,
is misleading: he is an approachable,
affable fellow with a lively sense of
humor and knows all his managers by
their first-names. He took the bank over
from Sir Leslie McConnari in 1952, when
he was 47. McConnan got the job in
1935 ; obviously the directors like their
general-managers in the mid-forties so
that they can hope for a couple of
decades' from their chief executive.
Present g.-m., who was a State-school
boy, grew up among horses at Werribee
(a country town though reckoned part of
metropolitan Melbourne), still likes them
and bets on them occasionally at
Flemington. He has understudied the
National chiefs for most of his career at
Melbourne headquarters ; but he had two
spells away, in London and as chief in
N. Bankers say he got to the top by
ability and hard work. What’s ability
in a banker? Wisdom, laced with
common sense and honesty.
• •
Material for Jack Lusby’s short story
“The Axe” (page 20) was gathered in
New Guinea a couple of years back,
when the author was with Gibbs Sepik
Airways ; the working-visit arising from a
chance meeting in Sydney with Bobby
Gibbs, who was Jack’s C.O. for a time
in the Middle East.
Until about four years ago, when he
began sending in short stories and special
articles, Lusby was known mainly as a
black-and-white artist. But he started
Writing pars about 1931 —in fact, he said,
Bully pars paid for a pre-war flying-
course. He’s always been a lively
raconteur: present writer heard one of
his Air Force yarns in Brisbane, where
Jack was working on the “Courier-Mail”
as a cartoonist, and suggested he put it
on paper. Some time later he did, showed
it to Douglas Stewart, who said it was
good but too terse, and the second effort
NEW GUINEA STORY.
was accepted. Since then Jack hasn’t
looked back as a writer.
His grandfather was one of Henry
Parkes’s reporters on the old “Empire.”
His father (now a retired schoolmaster)
taught in various country parts of N.S.W.
(North Coast, western Riverina, Monaro),
and relatives were on the land. When
he left Sydney High Jack studied art
under Julian Ashton (Ashton was still
alive, but the present head, Henry
Gibbons, at that stage handled the bulk
of the work; Dobell, Joshua Smith,
Freeman and Passmore were senior
students); he joined a group building and
flying gliders, and in 1938 “got used to
an engine in front” under the tuition of
Ted Macarthur Onslow. Took his private
flying-licence, and spent war years in the
R.A.A.F., flying fighters and bombers of
various makes in the Middle East, and in
Australia, where he tested ’em at Banks-
town and Richmond (N.S.W.) and
Amberley (Q.).
All of which adds-up to a pretty good
background for a writer. Now living in
an outer-Sydney suburb, he’s a most
prolific freelance with both pen and
typewriter. ..
• •
“Avon”: Pajakumbuh, Indonesia, will
be the address for the next month or so
of Professor L. W. (Lance) McCaskill,
Associate-Professor of Rural Education
at Canterbury Agricultural College,
Lincoln (N.Z.). The friendly and
versatile prof, has a big order on his
hands: to help establish in Sumatra one
of five new Indonesian universities. One
or more faculties are being planned for
separate centres, and at Pajakumbuh, just
south of the Equator, the foundation
faculty will be in Agriculture. If, after
examining McCaskill’s report, New
Zealand decides on a sponsorship scheme,
he will go back for a year as Associate-
Dean and as a teacher in agricultural
education and extension methods.
• •
From A. H. Chisholm:
With the death in Sydney of the Rev. H. M. R.
Rupp, Australia has lost the last of a quartet
of men holding world-wide distinction as
students of this country’s orchids. The others
were R. D. Fitz Gerald of N. S. Wales, R. S.
Rogers of South Australia, and W. H. Nicholls
of Victoria. All four produced books on the
subject that are now standard works of reference,
but Bill Nicholls, author and illustrator of the
largest of the works, had the bad luck to die
(in 1951) just before the first part of his great
series appeared. Rupp’s two books, published
in 1930 and 1943, are both restricted to orchids
of N.S.W., but he wrote also scores of papers
on many new species from other parts of Aus-
tralia.
This veteran botanical parson—B4 at the end
—was in the Gilbert White tradition. Also, he was
in the tradition of the Rev. W. B. Clarke, the
clergyman-naturalist who figured as the first
rector of St. Thomas’, North Sydney, and so
it was fitting that his funeral service was held
in that old church, beneath the stained-glass
window erected to Clarke’s memory.
Himself a son of the rectory, Rupp was
born at little Port Fairy in western Victoria, and
was educated at Geelong and Melbourne. He
came in youth under the influence of Ferdinand
von Mueller (there can now be very few links
with “the Baron” remaining) and from that
{joint all .the leisure he could gain from clerical
work, in Victoria, Tasmania, and New South
Wales, was devoted to the study of orchids.
Although completely scientific, able to dissect
a flower and discourse learnedly upon it, Rupp
was no mere academic botanist. He esteemed
the aristocratic orchids for their beauty and
their fantasy, and this appreciation became
abundantly manifest in his writings. How he
rejoiced, for example, over the privilege of bring-
ing to notice the new genus which he named
Cryptanthemis, a very remarkable orchid, found
in 1931 in the Alum Mountain area (N.S.W.),
which develops and matures its flowers below
the surface of the soil. The introducing of
that subterranean orchid (which has only one
near-relative, and that in W.A.) was, 1 should
say, the highlight of Rupp’s botanical career.
But he would have been no less enthusiastic if
someone else had done the Job, for, above all,
he was responsive to the work of colleagues
and always ready to give guidance to the up-
and-coming student of orchids. It is, in fact,
largely due to him and NicHblls that orchid-
ology in Australia is now prospering.
Rupp was awarded the Clarke Memorial Medal
(Royal Society of New South Wales) in 1949
and the Australian Natural History Medal in
1955. His large collection of orchids (pressed
specimens) has gone to the National Herbarium
of N.S.W.
• •
Appointed by the Westralian committee
of the World Council of Churches to the
secretaryship of the Inter-Church Aid
and Service to Refugees in Westralia,
Dr. James Leonard Rossiter is another
example of the retired man who refuses
to give up work. Holder of degrees from
Adelaide and Sydney Universities, he had
teaching experience in two States and was
Director of Education in the Northern
Territory before becoming head of Wes-
tralia’s Wesley College in 1927. He
retired in 1952, but remained head of the
State’s Toe H, and actively interested
in other social organisations. A son who
served in the R.A.M.C. in War II was
afterwards Professor of Biochemistry in
the University of Western Ontario;
another, whose war-service was with the
R.A.A.F., was Westralian Rhodes
Scholar for 1946.
“Collins Street”: George Coles, the G. J.
of G. J. Coles and Co., Ltd., has announced his
retirement from the chairmanship, but he admits
it’s very hard to say good-bye to the tremendous
business he has built up, and he will still be on
deck each day, though with rather less to do.
One of the most successful businessmen in
our history, he simply had to succeed. He
spent, much of his fortune, £2OO, on a trip to
the U.S. in 1913 to see at first-hand
how the Americans sold goods
cheaply. “There were no passports,
then,” he says now. “All you had to
do was go to Cook’s and buy a ticket.
I cut it fine, I stayed at the Y.M.C.A.
everywhere. It was cheaper.”
He returned to open his shop in
Collingwood, Melbourne’s poorest
suburb, early in the First World War.
The shop had Nothing Over a Shill-
ing. George Coles and his brother,
Arthur W., went to the war (an uncle
managed the shop), and both were
wounded. Arthur applied to the
Repatriation Department for a loan
to enter business with his brother.
The Repat. report was: “Unlikely to
succeed in business. Request
refused.”
In July, 1936, when Coles’ had
become one of the dominant firms in
national retail-trading, George Coles
and brother Arthur became estranged,
and George was deposed as chairman.
Partly through the efforts of Stani-
forth Ricketson, one of his closest
cobbers, who is leader of the J. B.
Were and Son’s stockbroking-firm,
he regained his business crown and
has worn it with distinction ever
since. ,
He has been generous to the
Anglicans at St. John’s, Toorak,
where he goes to church, and to the
Alfred Hospital, where he established
a tiptop maternity-wing in 1941, but
one of his chief preoccupations since
the war has been the Institute ol
Public Affairs, from the rostrum of
which he has preached More Pro-
duction: More goods at cheaper
prices. He’s not giving up his director-
ships, which include the National
Bank, and the chairmanship of The
Leviathan, a big Melbourne men’s
shop.
Today he’s as unassuming and hard-working a
fellow as ever he was. I’ve seen someone sus-
piciously like him in old clothes toiling over
his Lansell-road, Toorak, nature-strips.
• o
Victoria Racing Club has made a
splendid choice in the new chief stipen-
diary steward —Frank Bullock, son of the
famous Frank (Blue Spec) Bullock and
grandson of a noted police horsebreaker.
The new stipe has trained and ridden
horses in England, France, Germany,
India and here ; so, as they say, he knows
the game through the seat of his pants.
A captain in the India Army, he came
back to his native Australia to take over
the horse-transport show for the Army
in Melbourne, had a spell as a country
stipe at Warrnambool, joined the V.R.C.
stipendiary panel, went dairyfarming—
sporting bodies, generally, pay miserable
salaries, and the V.R.C. is no exception
—and then returned to the V.R.C. He
looks every inch an ex-jockey of 48,
though his weight now is more in the
steeplechase class. A reserved fellow, he
is also just and knowledgeable.
• •
“Uramao”: The Senate of New
Zealand University is giving four honorary
degrees of Doctor of Science to distin-
guished Australian and New Zealand
men of science: Sir Macfarlane Burnet,
F.R.S., M.D. (Melbourne), Ph.D. (Lond.),
hon. D.Sc. (Cantab.), director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Research Institute,
Melbourne, and a world authority on
viruses ; Sir Theodore Rigg, M.Sc., hon.
D.Sc. (West Australia), former director of
the Cawthron Institute, Nelson (N.Z.), and
former president of the Australasian and
N.Z. Association for the Advancement of
Science; Leonard John Wild, C.8.E.,
B.Sc., M.A., pro-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of N.Z., who has served on the
Uni. Senate for 25 years ; Arthur William
Baden Powell, assistant-director of Auck-
land Institute and Museum, a leading
authority on mollusca, selected to
describe the gastropoda and pelecypoda
from the Discovery expedition of 1936-37.
Mr. Powell’s degree will be conferred at
Auckland University College, the others
at the January gathering in Dunedin of
the Australian and N.Z. Association for
the Advancement of Science.
• •
Within the space of a week two War I
nursing-Sisters, Annie Connolly and Anne
Donnell, have passed on in Perth.
Partner in a private hospital, now part
of the Perth College, when the First
World War broke out, Sister Connolly
went to England and served with the
British Army Nursing Service until
invalided back to Australia. Between
wars she did private nursing in Wes-,
tralia. Matron Anne Donnell, an A.I.F.
nursing-Sister, sailed with the first convoy
in 1914, served on Lemnos during the
Gallipoli campaign, and afterwards in
France. Until retirement, several years
ago, she was matron of the Karitane
Hospital, near Kalgoorlie. Her book,
Letters of an Australian Army Sister, first
of its kind published after War I, ran
into several editions.
Here attacked by Prior while afflicted
with the virus ’flu with which Sydney
inter-State visitors, L. N. B.
Thomas, director of the Art Gallery of
W.A., 'has also been done-over by Ivor
Hele—in a portrait for which Hele won
the Archibald Prize. Bulletin met
WESTRALIAN ART
him in the course of his annual buying-
on-approval trip for the W.A. Gallery and
asked him what was doing in art over
there: he said that, among others, Guy
Grey-Smith, Robert Juniper and Sam
Fullbrook were doing. Fullbrook was
originally from Victoria, and now, as
well as painting, is mining for beryl out
from Port Hedland. He also said that
Ivor Hele paints all day from 8 a.m. to
4 p.m., then has a swim or plays tennis,
goes to bed at 8 p.m., and so up to paint
again. Over a cure for his ’flu Prior
also extracted the information that dur-
ing the war he used to go ashore with
inwading troops on Jap-occupied islands
and talk to the Coastwatchers about it by
radio.
• •
Australia’s first (1921) skating gold-
medallist, Dr. Cyril MacGillicuddy, has
gracefully slipped out of the chairman-
ship of Melbourne Glaciarium in favor
of a younger fellow, after 30 years as a
Glaci. director, 13 as chairman. He first
skated at the rink in 1906 when Howard
Smith was chairman of the preceding
company, and he has missed seasons since
only when he went to the First World
War, to England in the early ’twenties,
and to Stockholm in 1947, when he judged
the world-championship. He took his
skates to the war, put them on in an
icy Flanders winter, and was pretty
smartly spotted and straafed by a flying
Fritz. He took flying-lessons later, but
missed a solo certificate because of a
bung eye. He remains deputy-chairman
at the Glaci. and is Australian skating
president this year. He still skates. “But
it’s disappointing to find you’re not as
good as you were,” says the veteran in
his eager, young man’s voice.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Peru, suddenly, Donald Stafford Matthews,
F.R.C.S., M.R.C.0.G., native of Wellington
(N.Z.), product of Christ’s College, Christchurch,
and well known in Auckland. After War 11, in
which he served with the R.N., he lectured in
gynaecology in Nigeria, then practised in
Calcutta, going once to Tibet, at the Dalai
Lama’s request, to attend the accouchement ot
the Dalai Lama’s sister. Was with the British
expedition on its reconnaissance of Kanchen-
junga in 1954. and had gone to Peru to join
another British expedition attempting the
Andean peak Huagaruancha.
In Perth, at 65,- Percy Paterson, who, after
active service with the 11th Bn. First A.IF.,
became sales-manager of a large biscuit-factory,
was on the old Nedlands Road Board, and on
the Nedlands Municipal Council into which the
board was merged.
In Brisbane, at 69, James Comrie, well known
in Queensland journalism. At various times
reporter and leader-writer on Brisbane Daily
Standard” and “Courier-Mail,” and from 19j8-
53 was State Government Public Relations
Officer.
In Adelaide, Ernie Johns, former crack North
Adelaide full-forward. He was the first S.A.
League-footballer to play in three National-code
carnivals (1908, 1911 and 1914), and set a
carnival record by kicking 11 goals against
Tasmania.
At 83, at Rockhampton (Q.), Edwin James
Caine, who was one of Queenslands Oldest
practising solicitors when he retired this year.
A member of the law-firm Bergin, Came ana
Macrossan, Brisbane, for 13 years, he also spent
about 50 years practising in Bowen, Ayr and
Proserpine, and represented Bowen in the State
House for a terjn from 1911,


IGNORANCE IS NO EXCUSE


ABORIGINALITIES
CJYDNEY’S sandy suburbs like
Maroubra and Brighton-le-Sands
could take a lesson from the beach-towns
on the way to Newcastle—Woy Woy and
Gosford —where the shacks are at least
wonderfully set-off with wildflowers.
Almost every garden is liftght with
boronia, waxflower, waratahs and
Geraldton-wax, the shrubs growing twice
as big as I’ve ever seen them anywhere
else, and the whole display looking like a
drive through the famous King’s Park
over in Perth. Obviously the natives
revel in the sandy soil ; and some wise
nurseryman there must have started the
fashion. —“S.”
* * * *
“Columba”': A country man I knew
used to shoot his dogs when they reached
“So THAT'S what you think of me !”
the age of seven years, saying they had
reached the peak of their usefulness. He
died at 42, nor should have had cause
for complaint.
“Uramao”: How New Zealand secured
a capable horsebreaker: My immigrant
uncle was on the Dublin wharf ready to
embark for New Zealand when an odd-
looking joker accosted him and asked,
“Where're ye goin’?” “To New Zealand,”
said Unc. “And where’s that?” “It’s
thirteen-thousand miles away.” Paddy
Reed, the name of the broth of a bhoy,
counted his money, or rather his farmer
boss’s money, for the produce he sold in
Dublin, and said: “Hould on an’ I’ll be
wid ye.” He went over to an office on the
wharf, bought his ticket and set out for a
far land beyant the sea ; and the little
donkey and the diminutive cart on the
wharf that must have puzzled the Irish
police after the ship sailed were the
donkey and cart Paddy left behind him.
* * * *
“Wester”: Though we easily lead the
world in sheep-population, we are way
down in the cattle-field. Here are the
latest world-figures, in millions: U.S.A.,
97 ; Brazil, 64 ; Argentina, 44 ; France,
17; Australia, 16; Mexico, 16; West
Germany, 11 ; Canada, 10 ; New Zealand,
6 ; Japan, 3 ; Denmark, 3 ; Austria, 2_;
Belgium, 2 ; Greece, 1/
* * * *
“Zake”: Toughest and fastest-off-the-
mark Bung I’ve struck was in a little
Monaro (N.S.W.) hamlet I passed
through. He was standing behind the two
casks propped-up on the counter leisurely
picking his teeth with a skewer when I
walked in. He immediately poured out a
whisky and did with it as was intended
by the distillers. Then he bent on me a
grin like a dog gives you when you scratch
his chest, but when I tossed a two-bob
bit on the counter it changed instanter
to a hurt look. “Aren’t you going to
have something yourself?” he asked.
* * * *
“Pevin”: “M’Lou’s” reference to the
“churinga, or bull-roarer” (B. 5/9/’56)
has upset a notion I have had for many
years that a Launceston (Tas.) school-
magazine was called the “Northern
Churinga” because it was a “message-
stick,” and not because it had any con-
nection with “bull.” The notion was
rather shaky, anyway, since I read in
lan Mudie’s poem “Have Anger” that
“they have broken the tjuringas,” where
the message-stick interpretation seems out
of place. The word is not in the usual
dictionaries, or in the old two-volume
Australian Encyclopaedia; and in the
Australian Junior Encyclopaedia, edited
by Charles Barrett, it is referred to only
in passing, as “a ceremonial object.”
Well, are they all right?
* * * *
“Kerba”: Some poultryfarmers are
making use of the “sex-link” in chicken-
raising, and are unanimous in declaring
it infallible. It follows a discovery that
in the feathered world the offspring of
a "cross between two breeds of distinct
colors are similar in sex if; they are
similar in color. For example, if a White
Leghorn had been crossed with, say, a
Plymouth Rock, all the chicks with Rock
plumage would be of one sex, while those
favoring the Leghorn would be of the
other. Whereas formerly every chick
had to be caught, its sex determined, and
the chick then placed in one of two
separate brooders, the sex-link method
requires merely the sexing of one chick
and the sex of all the rest is known
immediately. I’ve tested the theory whh
breeding budgerigars, and it works.
“ I've not seen one like that before."
“Q. Ree”: Tourists and newcomers to
Fiji are puzzled why there is no stickum
on their air-letters. At first I thought
that at the price (3d. to Australia) how
could one expect stickum, too? But
after battling futilely with unused
envelopes firmly stuck down from the
humidity, one realises that the person
who banned stickum had more sense than
he gets credit for.
* * * *
“Seven el ms”: “Mulloway” (B.
19/9/’56) is swinging his paragraphical
axe at a conifer which, as Araucaria alba,
he himself has reared, to the confusion of
botanists. What has apparently evaded
him is that both kauri (A gat his) and hoop
( Araucaria ) belong to the family of
Araucariaceae : nothing newfangled about
the classification (New Zealand Flora, by
T. Kirk, 1889). “Mull.” has omitted to
mention Vanikoro, the most important
source of kauri-logs, and New Guinea,
whose magnificent upland forests of
klinkii are, of course, Araucaria, now
being made into plywood. Incidentally,
an article in a recent U.K. forestry
journal states that a member of this genus
—namely, the monkey-puzzler—is the
only conifer from south of the Equator
to attain millable size in England.
♦ * ** *
“Kros”: One aeronautical prophet
lately said he thought man would have
landed on the moon by a.d. 2000, while
another, head of the Department of
Space Medicine at a U.S. Air Force
school, reduced the time of arrival to
“from JO to 15 years.” Not to be out-
done, a Moscow astronomer reckons
a rocket-trip . there and -jback is
“theoretically possible” now. Could be,
a trip to the moon in the near future ;
but I agree with Adelaide’s Professor
Sir Kerr Grant that there are too many
engineering problems yet to be solved—
a couple are how to steer accurately for
238,840 miles at more than 1000 m.p.h.,
and how to land on the moon at such
a speed. Also, there’s the strain to which
a human body will be subject. In further
agreement with the professor, I won’t be
in the queue for the first trip. *
* * * *
“Ex-Ped.”: At least two venomous
snakes take to trees as well as the green
tree-snake (B. 19/9/’56); they are the
fer-de-lance and the green mamba.
Specimens of the former have been
found, in full venom, at London’s
Covent Garden fruit-markets among
bunches of those other reputed forbidden
fruits of the Tree of Knowledge, the
banana and the plantain.
* * * *
“Spin”: “Jackeroo” had better go
back and ask the British Museum people
to replace that notice describing the dingo
as “the domesticated dog of the Aus-
tralian aborigine” which he thought
wrong (B. 12/9/’56). The dingo does
to domestication—at least up to a
point—and the abos. did, and still do,
make a pet, or at least a camp-follower
and hunting-dog, out of him. That s
how he came to this continent in the
first place—when one of the first primitive
invaders crossed the island-bridge from
Asia, bringing “his wife and his dog and
his dog’s wife.” Naturally, in a country
like this the semi-domesticated dog went
wild; but when Grey, in the 1830's,
explored the Prince Regent River district,
in the Kimberleys, he found dogs around
the natives’ camps, and considered that
at least some of them were hunting-dogs.
Admittedly the dogs you see in natives’
camps near towns and cities are bitzers,
as “J.” alleges; but if be leaves the
beaten-tracks, and looks where natives
can still live much the same as their fore-
bears did, he’ll see domesticated dingoes.
In some parts the gins suckle the very
young pups, and I can’t think of a better
way to make a dog feel at home.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Why shouldn’t animals
be able to distinguish the difference iu
the sound of various horses’ gaits or
engines’ beats (B. 29/8/’56)? Humans
seldom mistake the sound of a well-
known voice for that of somebody else;
and if a mechanic can diagnose the fault
in an engine by listening to its beat surely
a dog could identify one engine from
another by the same method? The rest
is merely a matter of hearing-range ; and
the sensitiveness of a dog’s listeners is
incredible. A hound that fears thunder
will hear it and get worried before the
first storm-clouds appear on the horizon.
* * * *
“Pioneer Paddy”: One of those
itinerant salesmen with their Sweepndust
vacuums called at a house in a remote
Tassie town. He knocked on the door,
ahd heard the lady call out, “Come in!"
“Ah,” called the snappy salesman, “but
you don’t know me!” “No, and I never
will while you stand out there.”
* * * *
CONFESSING the follies of his youth,
a New South Wales M.L.C. told
his colleagues that in the 1914-18 war
he had learned to play crown-and-
anchor:
I already knew how to play “swy.” Round
the mines I had learnt to play poker and to
us’fe my hands to defend myself. 1 know the
meaning of a “nob” and a “grey.”
He went on to explain that a “nob” was
a double-headed penny; a "grey’ a
double-tailed penny. No doubt he was
right. Sidney Baker’s The Australian
Language agrees with him ; so does the
Australian Encyclopaedia. So, probably,
do thousands of spinners all over Aus-
tralia. Ninety years ago it may have been
different. Melbourne “Argus” recorded
a case on December 25, 1867, in which
two men were prosecuted for allegedly
cheating a third in a game of "three- up.
at Tattersall’s Hotel, and thus defrauding
him of £340:
The case for the prosecution was that
in tossing the coins Saqui had one known
as a “grey”—that is, one with two heads
—and that the defendants, being in collusion
with each other to cheat Ashton, Thomp-
son always called “heads,” as it was impos-
sible for “tails” to turn-up.
In the evidence it transpired that one
Alderson, an onlooker, had detected the
fraud and, on being refused a share ot
the spoil, had told Ashton. The defend-
ants denied everything, and were acquitted
after a two-days’ hearing. If a gre -.
meant a double-header in 1867, when did
its meaning change to a double-tailer ? Or
was the “Argus” reporter misinformed.
Jasby,
THE DEATH OF WINTER
While ice-packs howl and grumble to the
south,
While inlet sucks at tide with weedy
mouth,
Grey cape the beak of an albatross
Tearing a bellying sky;
Like cows' to the gate when milking-time
goes past
The tethered ships stand in for shore,
Pressing for deliverance
As l from the long night of winter’s
embrace.'
It is the most loved thing about him
now—
That he would not wait for love —
But stormily
Set on for death alone ;
And l, who hated winter,
May yet desire him
Who goes south as a king returning,
To his own earth belonging.
For that brassy young invader
The SUn,
Comes up from Asia
With lightning rays for hair.
His watttes march the mountains,
Take the glens.
Under our feet in the grasses
His spies are everywhere.
But those too old for spring
Cry that the years grow colder,
Cry that » inter never dies.
For them hail’s flagellation.
Night, and the tight, chill days
Were ecstasies.
Lazarus-wise,
They look for no resurrection.
Walled in a mountain tomb
Winter would hear
The snow run wild in streams,
Currawong crying the day up.
Nor could he lie deep enough
From the seeking roots of thyme ,
From piercing-sweet rock myrtle,
Granite crumbled by myrtle roots
When snow runs wild for spring.
Better to die in the south as a king,
With echelon of birds about him,
Under the mantle of a flailing storm.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


TJOR customers lulled to slumber by
Bung’s potions or the heroes and
heroines of his talkie-screen, one country-
proprietor , had his own awakening
medicine. In full view of the tired depart-
ing guests at lights-up time, he’d pour a
glass of ice-cold water on the resting one’s
upturned visage. A hurried, shameful
exit resulted, with all but the last —a
stranger, an oldish ex-pug, who flew into
glassy-eyed, trancelike action and down-
and-outed the funny man with a beauti-
ful one-two. Later a magistrate con-
sidered there was dire provocation and
dismissed charges. The talkie-man rouses
his sleeping clients by more peaceful
methods now. —“Quo Vadis.”
* * * *
“Biridja”: The near-Sydney “Nepean
Times,” which each week publishes
extracts from its issues of 50 years ago,
says that John Heron, who died in 1906,
drove the fast morning-train to Penrith
which used to be, and still is, called “The
Fish,” thus named because it had a
Heron for a driver and a Pyke for a
guard. The Railways Department evid-
ently held Mr. Heron in esteem, for they
had him as driver of No. 1 engine at the
Railway Jubilee of 1905.
* * * *
“Papalangi”: Can “C. Coral” tell us
whether the dog-god Baexis, of Darnley
“Stop stamping your feet!"
Is. (B. 5/9/’56), is identical with the
dog-god of Moa Is., whose image, said
to be 20ft. long and 12ft. high, and made
of tortoise-shell, is reputed to be buried
in some undiscovered cave on Moa? As
the shell-plates from 200 large hawk’s-
bill turtles are said to have been used in
its construction, it should be quite a
valuable little bibelot, but it is doubtful
whether even the modern Christianised
natives would allow any treasure-hunter
or museum-collector to get away with it,
if ever it were found. The missionaries
may have drawn the dog-god’s teeth,
but in many of the Pacific Islands, though
the old gods are buried, there seems to
be some doubt as to whether they are
really quite dead, and it would be foolish
to take any unnecessary risks, because so
many professing Christian natives play
safe where any old heathen tabu is
concerned.
* * * *
“Margreth”: New Australians in
Geelong (Vic.) have formed a Geelong
Carnival Society ; they staged a Vineyard
Festival; the hall was decorated as a
vineyard, and dancing, songs and recita-
tions combined to bring Old and New
Australians together. The evening coin-
cided with the celebratiijn in Europe of
the bringing-in of the wine-harvest.
* * * *
“Fairf”: C.5.1.R.0. has now developed
a means of combating mistletoe. The
botanic guinea-pigs used in the experi-
ments were four kinds of eucalypt in
Canberra, another species in The Alice,
and on some ironbarks in Fairfield
Heights (N.S.W.) Park. Spraying with
2,4-D was effective low down, but
inapplicable high in the treetops. As a
kill-or-cure venture it was decided to cut
notches in the tr-unks and pour in
quantities of the solution, the idea being
that the mistletoe would gluttonously
absorb most of the sap—and with it the
poison. It did.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Though the regular haunts
of the estuarian crocodile (B. 19 /9 / ’56)
did not reach much further south than
the mouth of the Fitzroy River and the
mangrove creeks and swamps of Keppel
Bay and Port Curtis in Queensland,
several migrants got as far as the Mary
River, apparently missing the Burnett;
about 70 years ago the stuffed skin of
a ’gator from the Mary decorated a hotel
in Maryborough. A lone wanderer was
also reported from the Logan River,
south of Brisbane.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Until a few years ago there
stood at Wolumla, on the South Coast
(N.S.W.), the Railway Junction Hotel,
named when Henry Parkes promised an
extension of the Illawarra line through to
the Victorian border and an extension of
the Southern Monaro line down to the
coast, where it was to junction with the
Illawarra line at Wolumla. Wolumla is
still over 50 miles from any railway.
» * * •
“Maitri”: “What a gorgeous hibiscus! ”
I exclaimed, only to learn, on closer
inspection, that it wasn’t a hibiscus, but a
camellia. I’ve fallen-in more than once
mistaking one for the other. It seems the
fashion for horticulturists to develop
flowers which take on the appearance of
others. But what is the sense of trying
to rperge one species with another?
“J.J.A.”: Besides being closer to Earth
than Mars, Venus is six times the volume
of Mars (B. 19/9/’56). One reason for
the lack of known facts about Venus is
that it is covered with an unbroken mass
of cloud, so that even the length of the
Venusian day is unknown. The atmos-
phere, it is thought, consists of gases
with a high carbon content —carbon-
monoxide, c.-dioxide, methane and
hydrocarbons associated with petroleum.
All sides of Venus radiate similar
amounts of heat, and, unless the planet
were rotating at high speed, it must be
assumed that it is still a “hot” one, though
perhaps not so hot that bacteria and
vermin could 4 not flourish, not requiring
oxygen. So Venus may be of interest to
oil companies, but not to pastoralists.
“ Er—Miss Worthington—l hope you'll forget all those silly BULLETIN
cartoons about this sort of thing.”
“B. A. Ker”: In the excitement of the
centenary of alleged responsible govern-
ment in Australia, it seems to have been
overlooked that this year also brings up
the half-century for local government by
shire council: the first was established
in March, 1906. Then, the candidate did
his own electioneering; he stood on the
soapbox in the tiny shopping-centre on
Friday nights and gave an account of his
stewardship—or the reason why—to rate-
payers who knew him personally. These
days the candidate is merely a name on
a dodger, a blurred photo in the local
rag, or someone mentioned in a secondary
capacity to “The Party” by an imported
politician speaking through a badly-tuned
microphone in the midst of the Saturday-
morning shopping-rush. Heaven forbid
that I become a “Good-old-days-er” —-
but...
* * * *
“S.Mc.”: Often miscalled feluccas,
those clumsy craft that infest the Nile, the
Delta waterways and the Suez Canal
are nuggers. The felucca is a
fishing- and trading-craft built by the
European peoples of the Mediterranean
—fast, seaworthy and smartly stream-
lined. To see one in a fresh breeze half-
deck awash and the lovely hull slipping
through the water under the drive of the
winglike sails is to gasp with pleasure.
The Nile nugger has the lines of a Sydney
garbage-punt or a Thames coal-barge.
What appears to be a clipper-bow is not
so. The high stempost rises straight from
the water and the topmost strake leaves
its peak to meet the low sides at deck-
level and full-beam. There is no curve
anywhere, and the bow-end has the same
ease and grace as an apse-end. The
timbers are heavy and the rudder 12ft.
long, sure indication of a slow-moving,
heavy-laden craft. The only paint used is
Nile mud. Nuggers have served for many
centuries as the freight-craft of the Nile,
seemingly without change or, perhaps,
replacement. On the Roda canal in
Cairo where the bridge opens in the after-
noon the long line of waiting nuggers gets
slowly under way to the most appalling
uproar of grinding hulls, creaking gear
and Gyppo profanity to be heard any-
where. Try to think of that crowd run-
ning the Suez Canal. 'Stru'th!
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: We’d been fishing for
Queensland freshwater black-bream, and,
arriving home, left some liver-baits still
on the throw-out; lines. The domestic
atmosphere was very chill next morning
when three prize ducks were seen waddling
around the backyard on the ends ol
fishing-lines. We cut the lines, and
marvelled at the gastronomic powers of
ducks when no trace of fish-hooks was
found some months later at killing-time.
There was a slightly ferrous taste to the
flesh!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “As opaque as a house-
brick” was a simile I read recently. Yet,
incredible as it may seem, bricks at one
stage in their manufacture are almost as
transparent as glass. Common-bricks are
burnt in what the trade calls a patent
kiln (abbreviated from Hardy’s or
Hoffman’s patent kiln). The powdered-
coal fuel is fed down between spaces left
in the stacked bricks through small
apertures in the top of the kiln. Looking
down these firing-holes it is possible to
see completely through nine or ten
courses of the glowing bricks. Despite
knowing this, I still was sceptical when,
newly arrived on a camping-job, 1 was
told the campfire got so hot the night
before that a brick which had been left
in the blaze long after the campoven had
been lifted off it became transparent.
That night I witnessed it for myself!
The fuel? Dry box.
* * * *
A CHAPTER in western N.S.W. history
ended when, at 10 p.m. on August 16
this year, the last beer was served at the
Woolpack Hotel, Mudgee’s oldest pub.
Coming in from the west, it was the
first building to be seen as you swung
round the curve at the Wilbetree-road and
looked straight up the avenue of elms,
poplars and kurrajongs. #
It was the end of the trip, for neaily
80 years, for the wool-teams, coming in
with their loaded wagons from most of
the north-west. Wool from the Coon-
amble district, Warrina, Calga, Wingadee,
Bullarora, Quambone and Goorianawa
all came to Mudgee, and the Woolpack
was the camping-ground for the teamsters
and their weary teams.
Wool from the Liverpool Plains,
Rockedgiel, Bomera, Oakey Creek, Binnia
Downs and scores of other famous clips
came there, Mudgee being then the iail-„
head. Past the western side of the
Warrumbungles, down through Men-
dooran, Yarragrin and Guntawang they
came ; and from Liverpool Plains over
Pandora Pass, with brakes throwing a
stream of sparks, squealing and grinding
for 16 miles, till they reached Coolah ;
then through Pine Ridge and Slapdash
to the Woolpack.
Put up in 1836, the Woolpack Struc-
ture is still a monument to the men
who built it. Cedar fittings throughout,
all in good order, it has the appearance of
being well cared' for. But the owners
(Tooths) have transferred the licence to
Wollongong. There were many protests
and petitions, but the brewery won, and
cn the day 1 write this there is a wreath
hanging on the bar-room door of the
Woolpack.
One of the troughs that were used by
the teams is still in position. Cut from
a solid box-log with axe and adze, it is
20ft. long, 2ft. 6in. through ; it was hauled
from Windeyer in 1870.
1 have seen 50 teams camped around
the Woolpack, and the nights were very
lively. Singing and dancing (buck-sets)
with fiddles and accordions going their
hardest, as the men relaxed, altei
hundreds of miles of flooded or drought-
stricken tracks, happy to have reached the
end of the trip. _
H. P. Trittgn.
TO A BELFRY
“The eight bells in Ballarat Town Hall belfry,
capable of 5040 variations, have been silent
since New Year's Eve, except for one day when
visiting bellringers called. The city’s former
bellringers are ‘too old now’ and young people
too uninterested to learn to ring the bells.”
From out the belfry now, no knells
Or variations bong from bells
At Ballarat Town Hall.
The experts who once went to ring
Have grown too old to ding-dong-ding
At Ballarat Town Hall.
And youth would rather rock-n’-roll
Than learn which ropes to pull to toll
Or doubles from the bells cajole
At Ballarat Town Hall.
“We really,” folk are saying, “feel
That Ballarat has lost a-ppeal
With silence over all.”
No ping, no ting, no clang or chime,
The belfry’s idle all the time
At Ballarat Town Hall.
And so, were I a homeless bat
(To whom a belfry is a flat)
I’d flit post-haste to hang my hat
At Ballarat Town Hall.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


Act now to protect
Your Estate
through the years ahead
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint
an experienced Executor —such as the Union Trustee
Company. During nearly 70 years of administration
of every class of estate the Company has amassed a
fund of experience such as no one person could
achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists, the expert
services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in each
of the three Eastern States is readily available —to
provide valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges
are moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain
these services at a personal interview —or you may
prefer to write for a copy of the Company’s free
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
(COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(.Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1883
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina;
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M-G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Speneeley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
CharleviUe.
UT 17
Busines. Rollery, Etc.
WATCHDOGS OF THE PUBLIC PURSE
By CHARLES MEEKING
THERE is nothing intimidating
about the group of men and
one woman sitting behind the
tables in the clear sunlight of a
Canberra spring morning. They
do not look especially dis-
tinguished, although the man
in the centre of the top table,
with a bright gleam in his eyes
and a dry voice (even when he
has laryngitis), is a former Pro-
fessor of Public Administration
of Sydney University. The
general atmosphere is informal,
Cigarettes are alight, typists
walk in and out of the room,
the secretary skips nimbly over
chairs to reach a telephone
placed strategically on the floor
in a corner. Outside the window
a gardener whistles.
There are no kleig-lights or
microphones, as there would be
if a committee of the U.S. Con-
gress were in session. The sole
concession to formality is the
array of movable wooden signs
on the table with the names of
the members the politicians
who have never held Ministerial
office, whose names are seldom
in the headlines, but who, at
the will of their parties, com-
prise the Parliamentary Joint
Committee of Public Accounts,
They are not alone at the table,
Seated with them are men, with
bulging brief-cases, representing
the Treasury, the Audit Office,
the Public Service Board. Facing
the chairman sit a couple
of departmental representatives,
summoned by the chairman to
be present, and sworn in by a
genial member of the committee,
a Labor man from South Aus-
tralia, who is well known as a
member of the Salvation Army.
He seems to like the little chore.
“Hansard” reporters come and
go. The newspapermen report-
ing the session wait for the
occasional verbal exchanges, and
try to interpret the involved
tables of estimates and explana-
tions which departments have
furnished to the inquisitive com-
mittee. Departmental officials,
waiting for their turns in the
witnesg-chair, listen to their
fellows fencing with penetrating
questions.
It is not to be expected that
all members of the committee
should be equally astute. Some-
times, quite understandably,
they forget the new names of
departments or are vague about
departmental functions and
even about the jobs of the wit-
nesses in front of them. But
when they ask questions they
show that they have studied their
homework.
It might not be wrong to
suspect that some of the
questions are directed as much
at the newspaper reporters’
.pencils as at the witnesses. It
could be true that some instances
’of departmental defiance or
neglect are not discovered. It is
possible that some committee-
members store-up information
for speeches in the House as
well as for the reports which the
committee makes to each
Chamber. It can happen that
some items of useful public
information, elicited from
entrenched officialdom, do not
reach the public through any
medium. Even granting all this,
the committee is performing a
highly beneficial public service
with a surprising degree of effi-
ciency. An observer may well
attribute this mainly to the
chairman, who has a high sense
of duty combined with a Puckish
humor and the pertinacity of a
ferret hot on the scent.
The committee was established
(not with its present members)
early in Federation, and it was
abolished as an “economy” move
in 1932. Since its re-establish-
ment recently it has got through
some intricate business, with
occasional highlights like the
disturbing evidence of the
Secretary of the Defence Depart-
ment.
Its reports have displeased
some Ministers and annoyed a
good many public servants. They
have caused a healthy respect to
be engendered among the ranks
of bureaucracy in West Block,
and East Block, and Acton, and
the new (and still unfinished)
Administrative Building.
A witness is giving his evi-
dence. The task is an inquiry
into “Supplementary Estimates
and Variations under Section 37
of the Audit Act.” In other
words, this is an attempt by the
committee to ascertain what the
departments spent outside the
Estimates which were formally
submitted to Parliament, and
which were scrutinised (at least
the taxpayers may hope so) by
the members of each Chamber.
The Supplementary Estimates,
if they are ever really considered
at all by Parliament, are apt to
be given scant consideration.
They sometimes include spending
which has never been mentioned
to Parliament.
It can happen that directions
given publicly to departments to
economise can be circumvented
by clever use of the Supple-
mentary Estimates. The com-
mittee never forgets this.
The witness mentions “inci-
dentals,”'and committee members
are down on him like a shot.
They have a highly suspicious
view of phrases like “office
requisites,” or “other inci-
dentals.” The chairman men-
tions that it is a “far call” from
the last report of the committee
on the subject, and refers to
comments by former Treasurers,
including Bruce and Theodore.
He recalls that Theodore had
objected to the presentation of
Supplementary Estimates three
years late, and expresses gratifi-
cation that things have im-
proved now. “We dealt the other
day with those for 1954-55,” he
says, “and now we’ll get on with
those for 1955-56. Now there’s
going to be a further change—
the Treasurer will bring down the
Supplementary Estimates at the
same time as the Budget.”
An assistant-secretary in the
Prime Minister’s Department is
being grilled about overtime
worked in Australia House in
London. He explains, to a
somewhat sceptical Senator, that
half of it is due to the “peaks”
of activity when migrant-ships
are about to sail. He announces
that the staff of 840 on the books
a few years ago has been reduced
to 680, of whom 140 are “per-
manent” public servants.
A Western Australian member
remarks acidly that half of them
must be employed keeping out
of the way of the other half.
When he hears that three car-
penters and two electricians are
constantly on the job in Australia
House he comments Jjhat a lot
of factories have fewer. The
chairman interposes to elicit the
information that before any
Commonwealth departments can
send their individual representa-
tives to Australia House the
matter has to be discussed with
the Public Service Board and the
Prime Minister’s Department,
and approved by the High Com-
missioner in London.
A new witness, a former
inspector of the Public Service
Board and now a Treasury
‘I’m terribly sorry. I thought I Was the one to complain.”
executive, tries to explain the
intricacies of the new Depart-
ments of Trade and of Primary
Industry, and of the staffs taken
over from Commerce and Agri-
culture, Trade and Commerce,
and National Development. He
admits, under questioning, that
although there are only four
new public-service “bodies,” the
total cost has gone up by £48,601
a year. This is due in part to the
appearance of two departmental
heads where only one flourished
before, and to their supporting
executives.
He explains, too, that a team
of four is trying to reorganise
the Central Import Licensing
Branch in Sydney, where at one
stage, he admits to the chairman,
thousands of applications were
lying unheeded on tables because
there was no staff to handle
them. He was not in the reorgan-
ising .team, but this doesn’t
trouble a Labor Senator, who
scents the chance of some
brief glory.
The witness denies that he
has ever heard of goods coming
into Australia on bogus import-
licences. This does not deter the
questioner.
“Will you give the committee
an assurance,” he says, “that
no more bogus licences will
operate in Australia? Will you
give an assurance that goods to
the value of one-and-a-half
million will not be brought into
Australia illegally in any one
year?”
The witness, baffled, not sur-
prisingly, by this attack, collects
himself enough to say he can,
of course, give no such assurance.
The Senator, glancing at the
press-table, subsides.
The chairman says that
Ministers argue that division of
departments will not mean addi-
tional expense, merely a transfer
of officers.
“I used to urge,” he says to
the witness, “that when this sort
of thing happens the Public
Service Board should present its
views to the Parliament, estimate
the cost of the new arrangement,
say what form of reorganisation
.there should be, and show the
whole effect of the whole
administrative picture—which
seems a ‘hotchpotch’ at present.
Do you think there is any merit
in that sort of suggestion?”
The witness thinks so. He
goes on to say that there’ve been
economies in staffs and salaries
in the lower level of the two
new departments, but that there
are more people in the “higher-
paid areas.” He mentions that
there is greater emphasis by the
Government on certain aspects
of policy, and committee
members smile, knowing the two
ambitious Ministers in charge.
Men are needed, says the witness,
to carry out policy decisions.
“At the under-secretary level
men are expected to think beyond
th: role of their department, and
if necessary to cast tbeir minds
in new directions, and perhaps
create work, "they do so with
the full support of the
Government.”
The chairman thinks aloud
about the possibility of a royal
commission to investigate the
structure of Government depart-
ments. He sounds a little wistful.
The witness reads a synopsis of
the functions of Trade and
Primary Industries.,
This contains references, in
general terms, to trade policies
and promotion of export trade,
including publicity ; the growth,
progress and protection of Aus-
tralian secondary industries and
determination of rates of duty;
regulation of import and export
trade; the conduct of inter-
national trade agreements;
review of domestic marketing and
stabilisation policies ; production
economics and finance in primary
industries; war-service land-
settlement ; fisheries and
whaling. The committee listens
politely, and one member asks
for a copy of the list. The
chairman inquires quietly if the
witness thinks the functions are
being fulfilled. The witness
replies, a little obliquely, that
both departments are “deeply
concerned with the marketing of
Australian primary produce
overseas.”
Evidence follows about public-
service advertising of vacant
positions, during which the chair-
man discloses that the committee
sometimes gets anonymous com-
munications asserting that
money is being wasted on adver-
tising and that there is no reason-
able return. The irrepressible
West Australian comments on the
side that he thinks nine out of
every 10 people want to get
“cushy jobs” in the public
service.
There is illuminating evidence
on the need for residences abroad
for trade-commissioners, and
their accommodation problems.
The director of trade services dis-
closes that when it had been
found impossible to buy an addi-
tional house in Djakarta during
the financial year (and some
trade-commissioners living in the
Hotel des Indes had suffered
nervous breakdowns), the
Treasury had permitted purchase
of a home in Salisbury,
Rhodesia, for the commissioner
there when his leased home was
wanted by the landlord.
The slightly querulous
Westerner points out that while
this transfer was for good
reasons, the Parliament had
agreed to expenditure for one
(i Continued on page 30)


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
N Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
FERRIS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL
£235,000
(MAIN TRADING
SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.)
issue at Par (£5O)
of £50,000
Registered Deposits
(RANKING BEFORE SHARE CAPITAL)
bearing interest at the rate of
participating
up to
PER
ANNUM
CURRENCY 7 YEARS
Each £5O Deposit backed by assets of £l4o—a sound
investment in an expanding company.
Additional working capital is required to finance the manufacture
of Ferris Television Receivers, Channel Master Television Aerials,
spare accessories and component parts.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application for regis-
tered deposits may be obtained from:—
The Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale. XW0221.
A. D. Meares and Bishop, Brokers for the Issue,
126 Phillip Street, Sydney. 8W4145.
Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
This announcement is abridged and does not fully conform to the
requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936. Applications for
Registered Deposits will be received only on one of the Forms of
Application referred to and endorsed ujion the printed copy of the
55*
Sound
INVESTMENTS
ilial do not fluctuate
INTEREST-BEARING
DEPOSITS
When you invest in Interest Bearing Deposits
with the Bank of New South Wales, you receive a
regular income and have the satisfaction of
knowing that your money is perfectly safe.
Interest Bearing Deposits with the “Wales”
are secured by the substantial resources of Aus-
tralia’s oldest and largest trading bank. Estab-
lished in 1817, its assets today exceed
£450,000,000.
Rates of interest paid at present in Australia
are:—
3% per annum for 24 months
2f % per annum for 12 months
2| % per annum for 6 months
2J % per annum for 3 months
Any branch will accept Interest Bearing
Deposits and interest commences from date the
deposit is made.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 950 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and two
branches in London.
A5625c
CLEAR 5 ACRES AN HOUR
OJjt/Py
.nVffMEbv
srnrn
Patent No. 156596
N S
OPERATING COSTS ONLY II- AN ACRE!
#
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season!.... increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS— S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC-: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A,: Wigmorea Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven, Ltd., 359
Moorhouse Road, Christchurch. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
Lendan airmail
From Herbert Holman
POLITICALLY, October is
conference month, with the
Conservatives at Llandudno and
the Socialists at Blackpool.
In the past opponents have
made fun of the Tory delegates,
accusing them of complacent
docility and starry-eyed adula-
tion of their ' leaders. This
unkind observation was not
without a semblance of truth,
particularly when Churchill was
the leader and the party out of
office. But it is not true today,
Internally the Conservative
party is beset with anxieties. Its
central office is harassed by a
flow of complaints from all over
the country, and M.P.s are
suffering from the same em-
barrassment in their mail-bags,
That the Government has lost
ground among its own tradi-
tional supporters, many of
whom have withdrawn their sub-
scriptions in protest, is an
inescapable fact. The gamut of
discontent ranges from the still-
wealthy industrialist (perplexed,
maybe, at the inequalities of
company-taxation and anfioyed
at what he calls “pale-Pink”
attitudes towards profits and
dividends) to the housewife who
has been forced by the rising
cost of living to take up a part-
time job.
it boils down to this: those
who regard themselves as true
Conservatives think that a Gov-
ernment of their own persuasion
might incline a little towards
them instead of discriminating
against them. They are incensed
because they consider it “soft”
(some use the word “pander”)
towards organised labor. These
complaints, which are as sincere
as they are widespread, are a
real worry to the party-
organisers, the more so because
there would seem to be little
prospect of finding a practical
solution.
A similar feeling of restless-
ness and frustration is endemic
among back-benchers, and it is
understood that the Cabinet is
very concerned, for reasons of
morale, about its spreading,
The Socialist agenda reads
much as before. There are some
400 resolutions, nearly all of
which are couched in the
familiar diehard jargon, “noting
with alarm” the reactionary
depredations of the Tories,
“reaffirming belief” in a planned
economy, “demanding” an
extension of public-ownership,
and so on —altogether, the usual
head-in-the-clouds yearnings for
a Socialist millennium.
Played Out?
Were it not for the reference-
books and, spasmodically, for
the quality of the poetry, a
middle - brow Shakspearian
might well mistakenly believe
that “Timon of Athens” and
“Cymbeline” were early plays.
The one might represent first
thoughts on “King Lear” and
the other is so extravagantly
overcharged with Bardic artifice
as to presage a half-dozen suc-
cessors —each to be the richer
for the author’s having learned
the value of economy in plot-
construction.
From the performance of
these late plays (especially
“Cymbeline,” which has not
been seen in London for 32
years) the inference is that either
Shakspeare had nearly written
himself out or else (probably
more likely) that he was com-
peting against some emotional
conflict within. The one might
well be the embittered self-
expression of a disillusioned man
and the other the perfunctory
rehash of a writer who was no
longer interested in his work.
The Old Vic season is off to
a firm, if less than brilliant,
start with these two difficult and
unrewarding plays. Consider-
ing the further task of having
to build up an entirely new
company (the old is touring
North America), Michael Ben-
thall has done remarkably well.
He gets the best out of his actors,
not all of whom are yet gradu-
ate, and he employs a producer’s
resources boldly and imagina-
tively, especially in the eloquent
lighting of both plays.
Ralph Richardson, consider-
ably less mannered and
sforzando in attack than
formerly, truly creates Timon—
a maddening role to sustain, for
he is anything but heroic. But
the droll Cardiff Arms Park type
of bonhomie which Dudley
Jones, as Apemantus, exudes is
quite out of character.
In severe contrast Benthall
uses no music, no scenery and
no trappings for “Cymbeline.”
The entire stage, made cavernous
with black curtains, is quite
empty. And on the whole the
actors come off better than in
“Timon.” Barbara Jefford has,
perhaps, too much spirit and
too little softness for the much-
sinned-against Imogen, but is
resplendent when in male cloth-
ing and charming in denoue-
ment. Two newcomers stand
out for their excellence: Leon
Gluckman as a masculine yet
tender Leonatus who speaks the
poetry well; and Derek Godfrey
for his conventional but steely
villainous presence as that echo
of lago, lachimo. The rugged
fidelity of Pisanio (Paul Curren)
is also moving.
But how the groundlings must
have relished the absurdity of
the situations! They are still
with us, even though they now
cross to Bankside in the name
of culture. So many laughs
occur in so many wrong places
that the topical line which
stopped the show, “Hath Britain
all the sun that shines?” has
had to be taken out.
Commiseration ' *
The critics have ’belabored
Roland Culver, the actor, a little
too mercilessly for his first
essay in authorship. Actors, it
is true, do not always write good
plays. They are too close to the
mechanics of the stage and tend
to put the cart (good situations)
before the horse (the whole
play). “A River Breeze”
(Phoenix Theatre) has most of
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ALEXANDER SHARPE late
of 90 Sydney Street Muswellbrook in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that MAISIE SHARPE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3229 of 1956
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards Tf you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the ” Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 7th December 1956 and
obtain a copy of the .Petition without
charge from KEVIN ELLIS & PRICE,
Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
the faults of an “English”
comedy made to order (a garden-
room at Henley, unlimited
drinks on the table and stock
funny-men, including a peppery
colonel and a comic psycholo-
gist), but the properly-absurd
situation which results from the
mixing-up of two girls when
babies is ingeniously worked
out, and the climax—the falling-
in-love of “sister” and long-
departed “brother”—is tastefully
and adroitly managed. More-
over, the players’ relish and
evident enjoyment are infec-
tiously passed on to the audience,
The author, who also plays the
colonel, must regret not having
used a pen-name.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
'Y'OU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker,
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome' tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an*
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. I. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman :
Sir EDWARD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT•
JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
HUGH DIXSON (Alternate Director).
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER COWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tam worth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd.—the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD.
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. Me FAR LANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Aust. Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
DEVELOPMENT on an impressive
scale over the last few decades has
made this co. one of the biggest industrial
organisations in the country.
The manufacture of glass, on which the
business was originally based, is still the
chief activity of a complexus of nearly
two-score subsidiary concerns which also
turn out within Australia a widening
range of plastics, fibreglass, etc., under-
take structural and general engineering,
and, abroad, show the flag in New
Zealand and South-East Asia.
In the ten years since 1946 net invest-
ment in fixed assets has risen by more
than £B-million to £11.7-million; inven-
tories carried at balance date have grown
from £ 1.9-million to £9.6-million and
book-debts from under £l-million to
something over £4-million. In all
funds employed by the group have almost
trebled to more than £3O-million, of which
increase shareholders have put up
£7,095,938, including £2,177,349 premium.
Of this £641,531 was capitalised, along
with £148,046 other reserves, in a one-for-
-25 bonus issue in 1950. Last cash issue
was in August, 1955, when ord. share-
holders were offered 1,393,307 £1 shares,
one for six, at a 7s. 6d. premium. By the
end of the month, when all the money is
in, paid capital will be £9,928,149, of
which £175,000 carries a fixed cumulative
9 p.c. a year.
During the term new plant came into
operation at the plastics factory at
Windsor (N.S.W.) and at the Highett
(Vic.) Laminex plant and in other sections
of the organisation, but not all of the
year’s outlay on working assets was
reflected in trading. A lot has been spent
on the big engineering project at Eildon
and the glassmaking plant at Macaulay,
both of which have yet to add anything to
earnings.
Sales in 1956 were almost 12 p.c. above
the previous year, and, since the prices of
most lines of the group were held steady,
this represented mainly an improvement
in the volume of turnover. Because of
the heavier costs burden, though, mainly
taxation, net profit on the bigger sales,
after eliminating the interest of minority
shareholders, slipped £152,872 to
£2,271,254, representing 25.9 p.c. on
average ordinary capital as against 28.8
p.c. in 1955, after allowing for dividends
to pref. shareholders. Estimated tax on
earnings was £2,189,538 (up £349,086)
and £1,190,344 (up £151,014) was written
off fixed assets:
A.C.I. AND SuBSIDIARIES,f
, Dividends Nominal
Net Pref- Re-
Jne., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
’52 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,875
Share premiums, £282,439 .. 7,104,314
Profit sale assets, £5323 .. .. 7,109,637
Unexplained additions, £29,662 .. 7,138,299
’53 991,906 15,750 9 p.c. = 726,844 7,385,611
Share premiums, £512 .. .. 7,389,123
Profit sale assets, £14,803 .. 7,403,926
From tax reserves, etc., £294,926.. 7,698,852
’64 1,183,525 15,760 10 p.c. = 834,984 8,030,643
Profit sale assets, £3477 .. .. 8,034,120
Unexplained additions, £212,498 8,246,618
’55 2,424,126 15,750 121 p.c. =1,044,980 9,610,014
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO . . .. 9,510,014
Share premiums, £348,129 .. 9,858,143
Profit sale assets, £6372 .. . . 9,864,515
Net unexpl’d additions, £181,605.. 10,046,120
’56 2,271,254 15,750 12J p.c. =1,088,52111,213,103
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO . . .. 11,113,103
* Subject to intangibles, now £2,384,196.
t Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
Ordinary dividend was again 12£ p.c. A
profit of £6372 was added to reserves,
which were also benefited with £348,129
share premiums and an unexplained
£181,605. A further £lOO,OOO was sent to
the staff fund, now £200,000. Subject to
£2,384,196 intangibles reserves at June
30 amounted to £11,113,103. The figure
includes a special reserve of £1,275,000
set aside to cover the increased cost of
replacing fixed assets.
Balance-sheet figures indicate the extent
of recent expansion:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955 1956.
Paid capital . . £8,534,842 £8,534,842 £9,579,230
Reserves . . 8,030,643 9,510,014 11,113,103
Outside interests* 117,993 139,978 162,545
Mortgages . . 298,890 286,436 273,983
Overdraft . . 865,548 348,428
Sundry creditors 2,719,736 3,202,655 4,228,938
Staff fund .. 100,000 200,000
Tax provision. . 1,905,878 2,779,821 3,969,298
Final divs. . . 459,791 626,988 670,529
£22,933,321 £25,529,162 £22,197,626
Freehold . . 3,197,901 3,746,002 4,384,784
Plant, etc. .. 5,613,566 6,358,004 7,374,905
Shares, etc. .. 1,361,796 1,157,817 1,311,964
Stocks . . 6,757,184 7,457,688 9,637,493
Debtors . . 3,864,965 3,955,656 4,092,514
Bonds, Jash, etc. 206,143 452,864 752,705
Inter-co. balancef 44,284 15,777 269,065
Intangibles . . 2,387,482 2,385,354 2,384,196
£22,938,321 £25,529,162 £22,197,626
* Including proportion reserves, t Due to differences
in balance date.
Net additions to freehold property and
plant cost £1,655,683, stocks were up
£2,179,805 (to £9,637,493) and an extra
£136,858 (£4,092,514) 'debtors were
carried. Net working-capital when the
books closed was £5,125,856. Tangible
asset backing oh conservative book-values
(all fixed assets are entered at cost less
depreciation) was £lO4 12s. 3d. the prefs.,
375. lOd. ords.
At around 555. the f.-p. ords. return a
satisfactory 4.6 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div.
basis. The well-protected prefs. last sold
for 295. to yield 6.2 p.c.
The Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.
TN post-war years the heavy cost of
fleet-replacement has troubled ship-
owners, and the position has not been
improved by the attitude of the taxation
authorities to depreciation charges. In
the case of most inter-State vessels
depreciation, expressed in present-day
pounds, is limited to a proportion of a
capital outlay incurred 15 or more years
ago, no allowance being made for varia-
tions in “real” money-values over that
period. Consequently depreciation often
bears little relationship to the true value
of the capital it is designed to preserve,
adding to the difficulties of financing the
purchase of new and more modern
vessels.
Sales to overseas buyers in the past 10
years have reduced the number of Aus-
tralian passenger-vessels on inter-State
services, the recently announced purchase
of the Adelaide Steamship Co.’s
Manunda by a Japanese co. further
depleting the fleet.
Originally formed in 1875, the Adelaide
Steamship Co. was reconstructed in 1920,
the paid capital, £2,325,135 in £1 shares,
remaining unaltered since that year.
With the sale of the Manunda in the
current term the co. now operates a fleet
of three passenger- and 17 cargo-vessels
between Australian ports, substantial
shareholdings in subsidiary and other cos.
providing a valuable addition to earnings.
An extensive portfolio includes scrip in
A.N.A., J. and A. Brown and Abermain
Seaham Collieries and A.W.A., as well
as a large holding of Government bonds,
etc. North Australian Cement, Ltd., the
co.’s most recent investment, operated
profitably in its first complete year of
trading.
Industrial disputes again dislocated
normal shipping activities during the year
ended June 30 last, a dispute with the
Merchant Service Guild preceding a
three-week stoppage by waterside
workers. Despite these interruptions the
co. was able to improve its earnings, for
although the conservatively stated net
profit, £139,516, claimed by the co. is
£2 below that of the previous term, the
annual contributions to insurance and
replacement reserves were increased by
£15,000 (to £25,000) and (to
£30,000) respectively. Treating these addi-
tions to reserves as profit, the co.’s net
earnings rose by £34,998 to £194,516
after sending £163,322 (up £23,814) to
provision for repairs and providing
unstated amounts for taxation and depre-
ciation. Proceeds (undisclosed) from the
sale of the passenger-vessel Moonta, a
freighter and two steam-lighters are
included in the net profit:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ • £ £
1951.. 156,268 5 p.c. = 116,257 40,011 1,025,673
1952.. 241,273 5 „ ~116,257 125,016 1.150,689
Decrease repairs provision, £21,130 1,129,559
1953.. 252,887 s*p.c.= 127,883 125,004 1,254,563
Added repairs provision, £139,773 .. 1,394,336
1954.. 264,515 6 p.c.= 139,508 125,007 1,519,343
Added repairs provision, £124,109.. 1,643,452
1955.. 159,518 6 p.c, = 139,508 20,010 1,663,462
Added repairs provision, £163,322.. 1,826,784
1956.. 194,516 6 p.c. = 139,508 55,008 1,881,792
* Includes additions to insurance and replacement
reserves.
Income from investments is not shown
separately, the earnings (£194,516) from
all sources equalling 8.3 p.c. of paid
capital compared with 6.8, 11.3, 10.8 and
10.3 p.c. over the previous four years.
Dividend, unchanged at 6 p.c., requires
all but £8 of the profit claimed by the co.
Delivery of a new bulk-sugar carrier
of 7150 tons is expected in 1958. Two
new vessels (a steam tug and motor
lighter) went into service during the
term, but the total tonnage of the fleet
at balance-date was reduced by 4098 tons
to 60,222 tons as a result of the sale of
vessels mentioned above; book-value
(cost less depreciation) of fixed assets fell
by £179,071 :
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,826,135
Reserves .. .. 1,519,343 1,663,462 1,881,792
Overdraft .. 221,454 600,489 184,491
Sundry creditors* 1,111,975 866,632 1,027,851
Provident fund . . 268,327 302,739 340,056
Final div 81,380 81,380 81,380
£5,527,614 £5,839,787 £5,840,705
Freeholds, etc. . . 256,013 270,783 279,059
Steamers, etc. .. 2,460,431 2,858,101 2,670,704
Shares subsidiaries 136,600 136,500 136,600
Stocks and stores 241,651 216,085 23^,434
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 1,609,613 1,580,654 1,742,298
Govt, bonds, etc... 823,406 777,714 777,710
£6,527,614 £5,839,787 £5,840,705
* Includes provision for taxation.
The co.’s liability to the bank was sub-
stantially reduced, overdraft shrinking to
£184,491 (down £415,948), while the
amount owing by subsidiary cos. and
other debtors increased by £150,585. The
funds enabling these movements came
from retained earnings and an increase
of £161,219 in creditors, including tax-
provision.
Legislation during the year defined the
relationship of Commonwealth and
private shipping interests, and, to a
degree, strengthened the private-owner’s
position, while amendments to the Steve-
doring Industry Act were aimed at reduc-
ing the recurrent waterfront stoppages,
which, with higher operating and replace-
ment costs, have contributed to the
increase in freight-charges over recent
years.
With a net tangible backing of 365. 2d.
the f.-p. £1 shares last sold on the Sydney
’Change at par.
Malleys, Ltd.
A HIGHER turnover appears to be
the main factor behind the 34.5 p.c.
jump in the earnings of this 37-year-old
Sydney-controlled manufacturer. Forced
to draw on reserves in 1954 to maintain
the 8 p.c. ord. div., the co. made an
excellent recovery in the following year.
The latest accounts, to June 30 last, dis-
close further progress, over 46 p.c. of
net earnings going to reserves, despite
the reappearance of the 10 p.c. div.-rate,
last seen in 1951.
Malleys, Ltd., manufactures a large
range of builders’ and plumbers’ supplies
as well as washing-machines, electric
stoves, kerosene-heaters and industrial-
ventilation equipment. Two Sydney
factories (Alexandria and Auburn) and
branches in South Australia, Victoria and
Queensland supply an Australia-wide
market.
Bonus-shares were handed out in 1951
on a one-for-two basis, the purchase of
two smaller cos. in 1952 resulting in a
further issue of scrip. A one-for-four par
issue in 1955 lifted paid capital to its
present level, £934,713, of which £30,000
is in 9 p.c. prefs.
The introduction, of new products
during the term and the popularity of
kerosene room-heaters stimulated turn-
over, net profit rising by £44,416 to
£173,012, after allowing £24,529 (down
£4517) for depreciation and an unstated
amount for taxation: —'
Parent Co.
r —' D i v i dends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
1952.-88,237 2,441 8 p.c. = 51,863 33,933 296,880
Share premiums, £3654 .. •• 300,634
Capital profit, £533 .. • • • • 301,067
1953.. 63.078 2,400 8 p.c. = 57,028 3,650 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460 .. . • 300,257
1954.. 42,247 2,700 8 p.c. = 57,028 282,776
To bad debts reserve, £7908 .. .. 274,868
Capital loss, £6516 .. . . • • 268,352
1955 128,596 2,700 8 p.c. = 63,933 61,963 330,316
Share-issue exes., £4524 .. .• 325,791
Capital profit, £1427 .. .. .. 327,218
1956 173,012 2,700.10 p.c. = 90,471 79,841 407,059
f After deducting intangibles, £22,682 at 30/6/’56.
There was no difficulty in finding the
extra £26,538 needed for the ord. div.
(increased from 8 to 10 p.c.); earnings
equalled 18.5 p.c. of the paid capital, com-
pared with 15.1, 5.6, 8.5 and 11.8 p.c.
back to 1952.
The co.’s articles were altered some
years ago to allow the board to convert
the 30,000 £1 prefs. into ord. shares, but
as yet no action has been taken in this
direction. •
An additional factory is now under
construction on the co.’s 11-acre Auburn
(N.vS.W.) property, and it is proposed,
ultimately, to transfer the entire
Alexandria plant to this site.- Most of the
capital expenditure during the term went
on alterations and additions to plant,
there being a net increase, after deprecia-
tion, of £32,022 -in the book-value of
fixed assets.
Freeholds are shown at 1951 valuation,
with additions at cost, and plant at cost,
less depreciation in both cases: — r
Parent Co.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital . . £742,854 £934,713 £934,713
Reserves . . . . 305,458 348,473 429,742
Mortgages . . 50,000 50,000 48,800
Overdraft . . 324,164 335,592 226,911
Creditors, etc.* . . 157,231 341,933 377,190
Final diva. . . 57,636 63,933 90,471
£1,637,343 £2,074,644 £2,107,827
Freeholds, etc. . . 336,194 300,644 302.246
Plant, etc. . . 244,704 286,138 316,558
Shareholdings . . 180,302 180,302 180,302
Stocks . . . . 442,193 688,601 692,164
Book debts . . 410,678 595,413 592,601
Cash, etc. . . 590 864 1,274
Intangibles .. 22,682 22,682 22,682
£1,637,343 £2,074,644 £2,107,827
* Includes provision for taxation.
Retained earnings were used to reduce
the overdraft by and the
higher rates of company-tax would
account for most of the £25,257 increase
in creditors and tax-provision. There
was little alteration to debtors op stocks,
a substantial increase in both these items
having occurred in the previous term.
The two subsidiary cos. have been com-
pletely absorbed by the parent co. and
are now in voluntary liquidation.
The directors state that turnover, since
the close of accounts, has continued at
a “satisfactory” level and that further
new products will be marketed in the
current term, during which it is also
intended to introduce an interim div.
With a net tangible backing of 295. Bd.
the,f.-p. £1 ords. at 255. yield 8 p.c. from
a 10 p.c. div., the 9 p.c. prefs., supported
by net tangibles of £44 14s. 6d., returning
7.3 p.c. at 245. 6d.
Bennett and Fisher (Adelaide)
/'OPENING sales of the 1956-57 wool-
selling season have confirmed earlier
forecasts of a strengthened demand for
the staple this year.
Jn South Australia, where this nearly-
century-old woolbroking, pastoral-finance


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instrument*
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JAti^WSULLIVANtM*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Ordinance 1912-1954 of the Territory of Papua.)
Issue of 3,000,000 ordinary shares of 5
each at par with negotiable options for
3,000,000 further ordinary shares
£
m
%
HOW TO APPLY FOR SHARES
APPLICATION FORMS and copies of the Prospectus
may be obtained from:
(a) The Company’s Registered Offices at 375 George
Street, Sydney, or c/- Mr. Norman White, Barrister
and Solicitor, Port Moresby, Papua.
(b) Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
(c) Brokers to the Issue:
Ernest L. Davis & Co., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
Eric R. Jeffery, 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Vic. (Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.)
J. H. Clack & Co., 14 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
(Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange.)
Applications for shares must be made on the form which
is part of the Prospectus.
CLOSING DATE t
The Directors reserve the right to close the Issue
at any time and without notice. Directors have
the right to accept applications for up to a
further 1,000,000 shares ranking equally with the
original 3,000,000 new shares and carrying the
same option benefits.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to
Prospectuses have not been fully complied with) is published for
information only. The Prospectus (of which this is an abridgment)
is dated 26th July, 1956.
of 5'- each at par
OPTIONS
To each share attaches an option to take up one ordinary
share of 5/- at par at any time within five years from the
date of the Prospectus. Such options are separable from
the shares of the Issue and will be traded in separately.
The options may be required to be taken up by the
Company on one month’s notice within the five-year
period on an announcement by the Minister of State
for Territories of the Commonwealth of Australia, or
the Administrator of the Territories of Papua and New
Guinea, of the discovery of oil in commercial quantities
in the Company’s permit area. These options will
enable subscribers to this Issue to benefit materially from
a successful search for oil in Papua.
activities of company and objects of issue
The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited holds a
permit to prospect for petroleum in an area of about 8,600
square miles in the Gulf and Central Districts of Papua near
Port Moresby. The funds are required to carry out and
accelerate geological and geophysical surveys and to implement
a drilling programme.
NEWLY ACQUIRED DRILLING PLANT AND
APPLICATIONS FROM OTHER COMPANIES
ASSOCIATED AUSTRALIAN OILFIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made prior to the date of the Pros-
pectus, Associated Australian Oilfields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National 132
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 500,000 shares of the Issue
for cash.
ASSOCIATED FRENEY OIL FIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made subsequent to the date ot the
Prospectus, Associated Freney Oil Fields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National 35
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 1,000,0Q0 shares of the Issue
for cash.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
20,000,000 shares of 5/- each £5,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
879,321 shares of 5/- each on which
£219,646 has been paid .. £219,830
CAPITAL OFFERED FOR ISSUE
3,000,000 shares of 5/- each .... . • £750,000
DIRECTORS
B W. Graham, M.P., 74 Kameruka Road, Northbridge,
N.S.W., Company Director (Chairman).
L. F. Nix, 13 Bligh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Solicitor.
A. E. Prince, 34 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., Company
F. reC Mackell, B.Ec., 5 Hampden Avenue, Darling Point,
Sydney, Company Manager.
G. H. R. Jones, LL.B., 12 Barana Parade, Roseville Chase,
R M.A.I.M.E., M.AUS.I.M.M., 422
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic., Mining Engineer.
PAYMENT FOR SHARES
Payment is to be made: . ,
(a) 1/- per share with application, of which 3d. per share
is application money and 9d. per share represents a pre-
(b) by l of 1/- per share, the first of which is payable
not less than three months from the date of allotment
and the remaining 3/- in calls of not more than 1/- per
share payable at intervals of not less than two months.
Shareholders have the right to pay up in full to par value
(5/- per share) at any time and in advance of calls.
TAXATION
Section 78 (1) (b) of the Income Tax and Social Services Con-
tribution Assessment Act 1936, as amended, specifies that one-third
of the amount of calls paid on shares of oil prospecting companies
jn Papua may be claimed as an allowable deduction in Australian
taxation returns. Calls paid in respect of the shares of this Issue
qualify for this concession.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
fal The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised by the issue of shares under the Prospectus is
£50,000. (This amount has already been subscribed.)
This amouht is required to be provided in respect of the
following matters: t . .
(i) Purchase price of any property purchased
or to be purchased Nil
(ii) Expenses of the Issue (including brokerage
amounting to £2,083 payable to the Brokers
of this Issue) £7,000
(iii) Repayment of moneys borrowed in respect of
foregoing matters eat non
(iv) Working Capital .. »• .. .. •• •• £43,000
£50,000
(b) Any sums obtained on the issue of shares in excess of £50,000
will be used as working capital. . ..
(c) Amount to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid
otherwise than out of the proceeds of the Issue is ml.
(d) No amount is payable for preliminary expenses.
In pursuance of Clause 99 (2) of the Petroleum (Prospecting and
Mining) Ordinance 1951/1955 of the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea, it is declared that nothing in this advertisement is to be
taken as claiming or suggesting that the Minister or the
Administrator, or a Government Department of the Common-
wealth or of the Territory or a person or a body acting on behalf
' of such person or department, has formed or expressed an opinion
■ that any land included in a permit, licence or lease of the Company
i is from its /geological formation or otherwise land in which
petroleum is likely to be obtainable.
and merchandising business has
its headquarters, conditions have
been good, and the clip is
expected to measure-up to last
season’s in style, and to be about
5 p.c. above in quantity.
The State’s pastures are at
present carrying 14,000,000
sheep, the largest number in its
history.
Last year South Australia’s
share of the record Australian
clip of 4,295,000 bales was
5 j 3,000 bales, of which Bennett
and Fisher handled 72,036, also
a record for the company. Most
classes of livestock brought good
prices, and sales of merchandise
reached a new peak, though in
this department of the business,
as in the land-broking section,
the restraints on bank-credit
became apparent over the second
half of the term. With the extra
£300,000 capital raised since the
close of accounts the co. should
be in a better position to expand
its activities.
Notwithstanding increases in
working-expenses and heavier
taxation (up £48,000 to £150,000),
net income from all sources was
up £41,232 to £205,515, not much
short of the record £205,930 net
earned in 1951, and, after pref.
divs., equal to 61 p.c. oh ord.
capital of £300,000 as against
30.1 p.c., 22.4 p.c., 50.9 p.c. and
47.2 p.c. in the following four
terms:
r— Dividends —^
Prefs. Re-
Jne., Profit. 74 p.c. Y Ords.—serves.*
£ , £ p.c. £ £
’50.. 116,318 22,500 10 = 30,000 116,625 '
’51..205,930 22,500 15 = 45,000 255,055
’52..112,877 22,500 124= 37,500 307,932
’53.. 89,811 22,500 124= 37,500 337,743
’54..175,4 3 3 2 2,5 0 0 20 = 60,00 0 4 30,6 7 6
’55..164,283 22,500 20 = 60,000 512,459
’56..205,515 22,500 20 = 60,000 635,474.
* After deducting goodwill ( £27,000),
written out, of- the accounts in 1951.
After paying dividends of
1\ p.c. to the two classes of prefs.
and 20 p.c. to the ords., the co.
added £123,015 to reserves,
bringing them to £635,474. Ten
years ago there was a debit-
balance on the p. and 1. account
of £2865.
The pref. div. reverted during
the year from a fixed 4 p.c.,
participating with the ords. to a
7j p.c. maximum, to a fixed
7j p.c. At the same time pref.
shareholders surrendered their
right to participate in bonus
share-issues. On the enlarged
ord. capital maintenance of a
20 p.c. div. this year would
absorb £120,000 ; or £63,015 less
than was-available for distribu-
tion among the ords. in 1956.
Balance-sheet figures are com-
fortable :
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £300,000 £300,000
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves . . . . 512,459 635,474
Creditors, etc. . . 1,367,560 1,563,625
Tax provision . . 102,000 150,000
Final div 56/250 56,250
£2,638,269 £3,005,349
Freeholds, etc. . . 367,024 388,617
Stocks and plant. . 367,773 399,526
Advances .. .. 1,412,176 1,426,880
Cash, etc 491,296 790,326
£2,638,269 £3,005,349
During the year £21,593 was
added to the book-value of free-
holds, leaseholds, etc., £31,753 to
stocks and £14,704 «to advances to
clients, etc., financed chiefly out
of earnings. The lift in cash (up
£299,030) is probably on account
of applications for the new share-
issue, allotment of which was
made on the first day of the
current term.
On Adelaide ’Change the old
£1 ords. at present fetch 345., to
return 11.7 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div.
basis, or a shade under 7 p.c.,
if the div.-rate is lowered to
12 p.c. on the larger capital
figure. The prefs. each bring
around 225. for a yield of 6.8 p.c.
Including the new capital, net
tangible asset cover is £5 2s. 4d.
the prefs., 41s. 2d. the ords.


Women’S LetterS
MELBOURNE
The first remark to the Archbishop of
Melbourne (the Rt. Rev. J. J. Booth)
made by the Governor when he arrived
with Lady Brooks at Bishopscourt for
the garden-party was “What! No.rain?”
—prompted by the fact that the last
three had been ruined by the weather.
This time there was blue sky and warm
sun, and the historic old garden showed
up in all its spring beauty. Most of the'
1500 guests were welcomed personally by
the Archbishop and Mrs. Booth and the
Bishop of Geelong (Rt. Rev. J. D.
McKie).
Mrs. Booth chose a hyacinth-blue
jacket-suit of lightweight wool and a
small matching hat swathed in tulle.
Helping their parents were Margaret (who
was accompanied by her fiance, Dr.
Norman Tucker), Patricia and Joan
Booth. ]
Lady Brooks chose a princess-line coat-
frock of ligbt-royal-blue ribbed-faille
and a small pink straw hat edged round
the crown with pastel-tinted flowers. With
her donkey-grey velvet coat Lady Selleck
wore a grey guipure-lace frock and a
toning petal velvet cap. The wife of the
French Consul, Madame le Bas de
Plumetot, wore a lovely flower-trimmed
hat with her brown-velvet coat.
* ☆ *
The background for the Bohemian Ball
at the Royale Ballroom was a Paris
street-scene. In the foyer were hung the
entries in the art-show, organised by the
sponsors of the ball, and included were
the prize-winning entries: an oil by lan
Bow and a watercolor by John Yule.
Round the pillars in the ballroom were
colorful posters, and the official enclosure
was turned into an outdoor caffi, the
tables covered with red-and-white-checked
tablecloths. More than 600 dancers in
gay bohemian costumes were present, and
special guests were Miss Dulcie Gray,
June Clyne and Eric Thornton. Also in
the official party were Dr. and Mrs.
Cunningham Dax ; the president of the
Robin Hood committee, Mrs. James
Alston, and her husband; Betty Just,
Emmeline Mcßeath, Anne Swallow and
Mr. and Mrs. Laidley Mort. Proceeds
of the ball go to the Helping Hand
Association for Mentally Retarded
Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests from the Western District and
the city flew by special plane to Metung,
Gippsland, for the wedding of Ann
Heather Simmons and Russell Kenneth
Neville Chirnside, of Carimba, Skipton.
St. John’s, Metung, was the setting; the
bride, who is the youngest daughter of
Mrs. Keith Simmons, of Appin, Metung,
and the late Major-General Simmons,
wore a gown of white duchesse-satin (she
made it herself) with the bodice featuring
long sleeves and a V-fronted stand-away
neckline. The skirt had a straight panel
in front, but back fullness where it
extended into a long, graceful train. Mrs.
John Paine lent the bride the full-length
,tulle veil and coronet of two rows of
orange-blossom buds. The bouquet was
a shower of lily-of-the-valley, stephanotis,
gardenias and white roses.
As the bride’s father had belonged to
the Queen’s Own Cameron Highlanders,
her attendants, Mrs. George Chomley,
Claire Gooch and Amanda Rogers and
Prue Jubb, wore the regimental tartan
sashes with their long white organdie
ribbon was also used to tie
their posies of white hyacinths, and they
wore haloes of ivy-leaves in their hair.
Wearing Cameron-tartan kilts and white
silk shirts, George Black and Robert
Chirnside, nephews of the bride and
bridegroom, were the page-boys. The
bridegroom is the younger son of Captain
and Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, of Newtown,
Geelong.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two-hundred tables were booked at the
card-party in the Town Hall which the
Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) organised ;
there were stalls for cakes, sweets and
fancy-goods. The star of “The Reluctant
Debutante,” Miss Ursula Jeans, drew the
lucky prizes out of a barrel. At the end
of the afternoon a tired but jubilant Lady
Selleck announced that £930 would be
handed over to the organisers of “Opera-
tion Gratitude,” for the use of ageing
ex-servicewomen and returned nurses.
Lady Selleck wore a black lightweight
wool frock and a high pillbox-cap
swathed with cinnamon jersey. Miss
Jeans wore a winter-white suit and a high
platter-hat in scarlet tonings. Mrs. Henry
Bolte, wife of the Premier, was in navy
suit and small grey straw hat wreathed
with pastel flowers.
Part of the entertainment to be provided
for visitors to the Olympic Games will be
the Elizabethan Theatre Trusl's roduc-
tion at Her Majesty’s of Mozart’s four
greatest operas. The season begins on
October 17 with “The Marriage of
Figaro.” Jenifer Eddy will sing the role
of Papagena in “The Magic Flute,” which
will follow, and Despina, in “Cosi Fan
Tutte.” Melbourne-born, Jenifer last year
won the Shell aria-competition at
Canberra. She has just returned from
Hobart, where she sang the role of Nedda
in “Pagliacci,” Radio, pantomime and
musical-comedy have also claimed her
time. Jenifer’s photo is by Athol Shmith.
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon, who is
president of the entertainment sub-
committee, has announced the many func-
tions 1 to be held to assist the Animal
Welfare League’s Lort Smith Memorial
fund. First will be a dinner-dance at
Menzies’ Hotel on October 22, when
guests will see the opening of the hotel’s
new floor-show, with Jose Santos and
his orchestra from Manila ; the Governor
and Lady Brooks will attend. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh
(BJ 1754) and Mrs. Ian Miller (UY 2266).
Later there will be a dog-show, a
children’s dance, a dance being arranged
by Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, and on January
12 Dame Mabel Brookes is lending Cliff
House, Mt. Eliza, for an outdoors day.
There will be tennis and swimming and,
possibly, a special yacht-regatta will be
organised.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wine Week was celebrated with a series
of wine-tastings: initially at the Rhine-
castle cellars, and then, all through the
week, at the Oriental Hotel, at which
James Bowen Pain not only was respons-
ible for the attractive decor but presided
over the tastings. There were also separate
banquets for men and ladies, and a
Vintner’s Banquet in aid of Legacy, all at
the Oriental.
The Week ended with a civic-reception
at the Town Hall, with the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank and
Lady Selleck) as host and hostess. Receiv-
ing her guests, Lady Selleck wore a smart
black frock, sapphire-blue mink stole and
tiny winter-white hat swathed with brown
chiffon. i
Among the guests were Mr. C. P.
Hazelgrove and Mrs. Hazelgrove (she
wore a beige coat-frock with a large
hat); Mr. and Mrs.
Kenneth Hardy, of South Australia, and
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Seppelt, also of S.A.
(Mrs. Seppelt’s charcoal-grey suit worn
with a small white hat); Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Despas, of Sydney (her black frock
worn with a large black rose-trimmed
hat); Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Guinand (S.A.);
Mr. and Mrs. Ian Seppelt (S.A.); Mr.
and Mrs. S. Gramp (S,A.); the Douglas
Lambs (N.S.W.); Mr. and Mrs. T.
Seabrook ; and Mr. and Mrs. D. Wynn.
CANBERRA
A pre-wedding party in. honor of Miss
Patsy Blake and her fiance, Mr. E. J.
McMurtrie, was given on Friday by the
American Charge d’Affaires, Mr. Avery
F Peterson, and Mrs. Peterson, at the
U.S. Embassy. Miss Blake is a secretary
on the Embassy staff ; she is the daughter
of Mrs. J. Blake, of California, and has
been in Australia since February this year.
Her fiance is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
E. G. McMurtrie, of Deakin, Canberra,
Miss Blake wore a full-skirted blue-
and-white-patterned nylon cocktail-frock,
Among the guests were the parents of
y , 5 , . A,,.. A/tS
the bridegroom-to-be Mr. and Mrs
McMurtrie; Air-Commodore F. W- Lukis
and Mrs. Lukis; the High Commissioner
for New Zealand and Mrs. Alderton ;
Mr. and Mrs. C. Russell; Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Hyles; Mr. and Mrs. P. S.
McGovern ; Mr. Justice Simpson and
Mrs. Simpson; Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
McCracken ; Mr. and Mrs. McDermott;
and Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Oliphant.
The wedding will take place at the
Methodist Memorial Church, Canberra,
on October 13.
SYDNEY
The Waratah Festival over the past
week has not made much progress.
Perhaps it could be summed-up in the
three little words “Rain stopped play.”
Certainly there have not been any
waratahs in evidence, but the Lord
Mayor, with other citizens, planted 168
in Hyde Park on 'Monday, so future
festivals may be better supplied. The
flower-shows started this week ; one of the
most spectacular is at Anthony
Hordern’s, the huge store being decked-
out most artistically.
☆ ☆ *
Meanwhile, social activities have kept
people more than busy. Apart from
Easter Week, this is by far the gayest
time in Sydney, and also the most
exhausting. Nonetheless, many Sydpey
socialites have the energy to enjoy
October festivities to the full in Sydney
and then take wing for Melbourne, where
they start again. This year, too, the
plans are for the whole month to be
spent in Melbourne, so as to take in both
the Cup and the Olympic Games. Such
stamina!
Mary Cullen will play the lead in the
Sydney Light Opera Company’s produc-
tion of “Show Boat,” to be presented at
Mosman Town Hall on October 16, 18
and 19. Proceeds of the production will
be devoted to All Saints’ Hospital,
Mosman. Photo by Ealk.
Dresses took second-place to decor at
this year’s Black and White Ball. Under
the direction of Mrs. Victor Coppleson
and Mrs. Noel Vincent, the Trocadero
became a gay carnival-ground with
massed balloons, clowns, carousels and
prancing horses in black and white, the
ceiling draped with white muslin and the
official table decked with a black-and-
white polka-dot tablecloth (specially
woven).
Guest-of-honor was Sir John Northcott,
Administrator of the Commonwealth.
The president of the ball-committee,
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, wore a dress of
white delustred-satin embroidered with
grey motifs, slim in design with fullness
at the back. The most glamorous dresses
of the evening were named by Mrs. Roy
McCaughey and Mrs. Alexis Albert, who
awarded first-prize to Mrs. Ken Munro ;
her dress was cream guipure-lace with a
tulle skirt. Second was Mrs. Bob
Mclnerney, in a spectacular gown of
white silk-organdie, its wide skirt caught
into tiers with bands of heavy black
guipure-lace. Well-known model Diana
Gregory in slim black faille and tulle was
third.
Two country girls were first and second
in the unmarried section: Margaret
Mackay ( Merrywinebone), in white tulle
with crescent strips of magnolia satin on
the skirt, and Diana Hanley (Crookwell),
whose romantic dress of white tulle had
black ribbon velvet threaded through a
band of beading on the skirt. Mary
Stephen was third in a tailored dress of
white satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Ned Kelly” opened at the Elizabethan
Theatre to a lively and representative
audience. Literary people were there in
abundance: the author, Douglas Stewart,
with his wife (who is artist Margaret
Coen) and daughter Meg, the Kenneth
Slessors, the R. D. FitzGeralds, the
Ronald McCuaigs, the Alec Boltons (she
is poet Rosemary Dobson), novelist
Kylie Tennant, and the David Campbells,
from Canberra.
The Premier and Mrs. Cahill were
present, the Lord Mayor and Mrs. Hills,
Mrs. R. J. Heft'ron and her daughter
Mrs. J. Coker.
Prominent first-nighters went along:
the C. R. McKerihans; Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moses ; Miss Margaret Gillespie;
Mr. and Mrs. B. P. Macfarlan ; Dr. and
Mrs. Torn Bateman, with daughter
Rosalind and country visitor Mrs. Mollie
McGrath (Boorowa).
It was quite a night, with University
students putting on their own Kelly Gang
performance in the foyer before the play,
and controversy running rife during the
intervals.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Red Cross gala preview of “Walk
Into Paradise” brought out so many
dresses in black and white that one felt
one was back at the ball. As president
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere thanked every-
one from the stage the broad diamente
shoulder-straps of her short white dress
sparkled like the Milky Way, and actress
Jill Adams, whom she introduced, was
also clad in white, Arctic-fox over white
straw-lace. Quentin Rafferty, wife of
star Chips, wore a white Chinese-style
dress, Mrs. A. L. Walters wore black,
Mrs. H. J. Buchanan a slim vyhite dress,
and Mrs. E. D. Woodward black with
white embroidery. Mrs*. Alec Morgan
wore a striking dress of white broderie
anglaise, narrow to the knees, then
sweeping out in a wide organdie frill;
Mrs. Persia Porter was in black, while
both Mrs. Gordon Johnston and Mrs.
Jack Newlands wore short black dresses
with flame-colored stoles. The effect was
quite dazzling.
☆ ☆ &
When, the Independent Theatre’s
season of “Bus Stop” opens tomorro.w
night (October 11) its career as a pro-
fessional theatre will begin. In future it
will play six nights per week, and at
least six of the actors in each production
will be paid the award wage. This has
been made possible by help from the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, which plans
to build up professional repertory in all
States. >.
☆ ☆ ☆
The hair-style designed to suit the new
hats is short, with the hair at the side of
the face covering the ears completely and
curving on to the cheeks. The style was
shown in Sydney during the week, but it
came from Paris, where it has also just
been “released.” (The latest picture of
Princess Margaret at a function in
Mombasa shows her wearing this hair-do,
by the way.)
☆ ☆ ☆
There are plenty of things to go to
just at this time of the year. The Eliza-
bethan Little Theatre Group is having a
sherry-party and play-reading at the
Royal Empire Society next Sunday at
6.30 p.m., and on Friday, \October 12,
there is to be a really gala night at the
Royal Empire reception-rooms. Tickets
are £5 ss. each, which sounds quite a lot,
but it makes one the donor of a chair to
the Royal Empire Society, and that chair
will have one’s name on it. In addition,
one gets a musical programme, preceded
by cocktails and followed by a
champagne-supper, so the value is really
there.
The season of fetes is getting well into
its swing. The Hurlstone Argicultural
High School’s fete on Saturday offers
the attraction of swimming- and diving-
exhibitions by leading amateur champions,
as well as all the other fun of the fair.
The school is only 24 miles from Sydney,
and the lovely drive along Hume Highway
(31) would complete a pleasant Saturdays
outing.


OWN Grain Storage 1
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
RB
=»«>>
888 #&&8&
msfsm
m
f m*
m
. mmz
mm
-+~~*
WwamWmM
~, <■:■;■>/.
mm.
mmmmmm
1
• "*9££sBBs
raWt;>X<f',.v/.
■'•■•: •.
m
mm;,
.: :■
““
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
0 Easily erected—permanent
0 Rodent and weatherproof
0 Steel earth rings and load-
ing platforms available as
extras if required
0 Prompt delivery
AUGERS
%
0 Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
0 Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
0 Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
0 Vertical sets complete with
wall bracket*, ehute tubes,
AUGERS. Priced as /ow
as £lll. Popular type for
standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£l3B.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
206 Bushel Silo —-
250
500
1,000
2.000
2,000
3,000
3.500
4.500
8.500
(Elevated)
(Squat)
£93
£79
£l36
£2oB
£2oB
£27l
£294
£447
£7o9
Write tor further information and Agents' Names to Dept. No.
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Ned Kelly”
At the conclusion of the open-
ing night of Douglas Stewart’s
"Ned Kelly” at Sydney’s
Elizabethan Theatre, director
Hugh Hunt suggested to a
packed house that it had just seen
‘ a bush ‘Macbeth.’ ”
Mr. Hunt was no doubt think-
ing of poetry and of the self-
destruction theme which is the
essence of Shakspearian tragedy,
but if one is looking for com-
parisons between Shakspeare and
Stewart’s poetic conception of an
Australian legend—and of the
Australian earth and spirit —one
can’t pass-up Hotspur -- for
whose heroic, impatient spirit “a
kingdom was too small a
bound,” and who turned his own
grudge against authority into
justification for his consuming
appetite for excitement.
Granted that it’s impossible to
accord Stewart’s Ned quite the
same nobility of courage that
belongs to Hotspur, but at least
they share what Johnson called
the “dignity of danger,” and with
but slight changes of accent it
would be quite in keeping for
Stewart’s Ned to say:
Come, let me taste my horse,
Who is to bear me like a thunder-
bolt
or
for l will ease my heart,
Albeit I make a hazard of my
head .
or
Ido not care; I’ll give thrice
so much land
To any well-deserving friend ;
But in the way of a bargain,
mark ye me,
I’ll cavil on the ninth part of a
hair.
Those, anyway, are the over-
tones —action, courage, gener-
osity—with .which Leo McKern
colors his vigorous, swaggering
portrayal of Ned. Occasionally
one felt he was straining to
match lines of rich poetic
imagery with Ned’s rough
humor, savagery and megalo-
mania, out even at that he took
them so well that it was a pity
the lines
They come to hunt us,
And blaze at a stump if it
watches them too closely
And run for their lives from the
echo.
were excised from his speech in
the first scene.
From a dramatic point of
view, characters like Stewart’s
Ned, or Hotspur, can express
themselves but not explain them-
selves —they must be interpreted
from their actions by the audi-
ence or by other characters. On
the other hand, a character like
Joe Byrne, educated, intelligent
and philosophic, can both
express and explain himself —
which, of course, makes Byrne
a simpler dramatic proposition.
Frank Waters, volatile and
intelligent actor that he is, was
not slow to take advantage of
this, and if, In his wit, swagger
and eventual disillusion, he came
perilously close to pinching a
few scenes from McKern —well,
that may be poetic retribution
for the way in which Mr.
McKern swiped scene after scene
when he was last in Sydney with
the Stratford company.
McKern and Waters were
excellently served by a large cast,
in which conspicuous per-
formances came from Collins
Hilton, with the fusspot manners
and pathetic dignity of the bank-
teller ; Kevin Miles, as a lithe
and stylish Dan Kelly; Lloyd
Cunnington, uneasy, slinking
and vicious as Steve Hart;
Benita Harvey, with her quick
intensity of passions as Kelly’s
girl, “Tlie Roo” ; Patricia Hill,
in the uncertain clutching
emotions of Rita Sherritt;
Robert Levis, as the stricken,
fearful Sherritt —although could
such a man ever have been a
friend and confidant of the
Kellys? And, after all, the fears
of a coward are not half so
dramatically impressive as the
fears of a brave man..
Frank Lloyd’s Curnow is
also a good version of the
character as conceived a sly
and wily little schoolteacher who
brings Ned down —and he fits the
purpose of the story as someone
sufficiently unimpressive for Ned
to let him leave the hotel without
worrying about the conse-
quences. On the other hand,
this is the man who, when he
could have gone safely home to
bed, elected to risk a Kelly bullet,
in the dark by running down the
line and waving a lantern to save
a trainload of people. In effect,
with nothing to gain and a very
real risk to himself, he behaved
in a way which would justify
calling him “as game as Ned
Kelly.”
John Sumner’s production,
with admirable sets and costumes
by Desmonde Downing and
special drops by Sidney Nolan,
scored point after point with its
rich groupings and movement
and the kind of artistry which,
after the excitement of the first
act, brought in the lovely night-
scene in the clearing like the
slow movement of a symphony.
There were things one would
have liked., of course. Severely
cut as the play has been, in the
interests of action and suspense
it might have been possible to
cut the two second-act scenes
even closer to the action and
thus make room for the brief,
rich moments between Kelly and
Reardon, the railwayman whom
Kelly compels to tear-up the
railway-line.
And why discard such a
valuable element of suspense by
hiding Ned’s armor under a rain-
coat until the very last moments ?
Indeed, one would have preferred
something of the spirit of the
original published version, with
Ned “a grotesque and gigantic
figure in the misty light” and
with, eventually, an epitaph
spoken by someone else instead
of his own self-analysis—some-
thing as final and as apt as Hal’s
farewell to Hotspur:
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in
the grave, ,
But not remember’d in thy
epitaph.
The last words in a tragedy rarely
sit comfortably on the central
figure.
Still, tfiose were minor points
in a very handsome production,
and one hopes now that attention
will be turned to Stewart’s “Ship-
wreck,” which, if not rooted as
firmly in the Australian earth
and tradition, is a drama of
remarkable feeling and tensions,
and which, apart from several
excellent roles, has in Cornelius
and Lucretia two leading parts
which, from an acting point of
view, should be fascinating in
their possibilities.
❖ *
Post and Germani
The subscription-concert con-
ducted by Joseph Post with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra last
week began with the “Prome-
theus” Overture, which, though
less spectacular than the Egmont
or the Leonoras, remains one of
Beethoven’s finest. The reading
was full-blooded and ebullient,
and the lordly slow introduction
was marked by beautiful oboe-
playing by lan Wilson.
“Death and Transfiguration”
is a constant reminder that the
later tone-poems of Richard
Strauss —in which he tries to
recreate in music the sound of his
baby gurgling in its bath —do not
represent a true measure of the
composer’s worth. “Death and
Transfiguration” will stand com-
parison with the best extant in
the form. It has pages of rare
serenity and spiritual exaltation,
and on these Mr. Post bent a
musicianship and insight which
few visiting celebrities have
bettered.
The symphony was Vaughan
Williams’s Fifth. Composed in
1943, it is one of the best
symphonies written by anyone
this century. Built on the grand
scale, it has an admirable direct-
ness of expression, clear themes
and strong working-out. The
conductor succeeded in conjur-
ing from all choirs a smooth yet
sturdy musical texture, with the
tone-colors coming out in glow-
ing richness in the romanza.
The visiting Titular Organist
of the Vatican, Fernando Ger-
mani, was soloist in Handel’s
Concerto No. 4. It is a light,
genial work, full of lilt and
gaiety, and cast in the baroque
style. Signor Germani entered
into the spirit of it, and with
deft touches tossed back his part
in the dialogue on a note of
joyous abandon.
All thoroughly exhilarating.
*' * *
4 ‘Six Characters in Search of
An Author”
It comes as a shock to realise
that Pirandello’s great play is 30
years old, for it is far more
modern and challenging than the
best work of the last decade of
English theatre.
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre chose this piece for their
September offering, but at first it
seemed to the audience that the
project had been abandoned: a
stage, a ladder, a prop, tree, and
no curtain down!
At eight-o’clock a producer
and his team of actors strolled in
to commence a rehearsal on
another Pirandello play. The
rehearsal was hardly under way
when a group of six “characters”
in mourning marched up the
aisle to implore the producer to
give them the chance their author
had denied them.
Slowly the single-minded
inability of the characters to see
beyond their individual roles and
into the play as a whole is
revealed, and it is made apparent
that the author could never have
finished / his dramatic setting for
these six, abandoned, characters.
So they remain, “characters,”
unable to think beyond their
function in the plot. In stressing
this, Pirandello questions Reality
versus Illusion; whether the
artist’s creation is more real than
the llesh-and-blood audience
called upon to witness it.
“Six Characters” is superb
theatre as well as superb
philosophy of the theatre, since
it offers to the two leading
“characters” the chance to draw
a fine distinction between illusion
of personality and fully-rounded
humanity, yet in terms of the
illusory art of acting!
English actress Margaret
Wolfit sensed this division per-
fectly, screening herself in a
mask of stillness when not
actively forward, passionately
affirming some facet she believed
to be in her “character.” As her
“character” stepfather, Lionel
Jones seemed to ignore this
subtle distinction, but brought
remarkable intensity to his per-
formance.
Val Vallis.
♦♦♦ ❖
“The Glass Menagerie”
Tennessee Williams is a
writer who finds the texture of
beauty in the humdrum. Un-
illuminated by his imagination,
nothing could be more ordinary
than the story of a young ware-
houseman who deserts his home
after failing to help his mother
catch a husband for his shy
sister. Yet Williams gives the
story a tenuous beauty as fragile
as the glass animals from which
it derives its name.
The structure of the play
makes smooth presentation diffi-
cult. Williams has packed into
one piece the well-worn device of
the flashback, the intrusion of a
narrator, a fluid set, a complex
lighting-plot, a belated climax,
a series of episodic scenes, and
an interval introduced by
courtesy rather than by dramatic
necessity.
Canberra Repertory Society’s
production, by Ralph Wilson,
while it captures some of the
haunting poignancy of the play,
does not altogether cope with
its difficulties scene - changes
and lighting-changes tend to
distract, and the presentation
lacks unity of mood.
Still, Barbara Shanahan’s inter-
pretation of Laura makes it easy
to understand how her memory
haunts her brother over the years.
The sensitive moodiness of Tom
and the friendly warmth of the
Gentleman Caller are handled
with ease by Michael Dennis and
Rodney Smith.
J. M. G.


The Axe
By JACK LUSBY
SQUATTING on his
haunches, Kopa twirled the
axe in his hand. The sun
was sinking over the
t western end of the valley, turn-
ing low streamers of cloud
fluorescent-red against the deep-
blue chaos of the ranges.
Fire flashed from the axe and
lit the stolid brown face above it.
Kopa flicked a wrist, spun the
blade again. It was steel,
polished and razor-sharp a
white man’s axe. The handle
was light and tapered, native-
fashion.
The axe could slice through a
tree like sugarcane or split a
man’s head like a melon. It
was Kopa’s sole worth-while
possession.* And the flash of the
sun on it aroused a smouldering
fire within him.
The day went, leaving a
luminous green sky behind the
soaring peaks. Shadows poured
into the valley. Kopa rose and
slid the axe into his wide, bark
belt. Arrow-protection, the belt.
He was youngish and of stocky
build. Two hawk’s wings
sprouted from the leaf-turban
enclosing his frizz of hair. His
face was truculent and heavy, his
brow overfurrowed. A puzzled
face.
From the top of the bark belt,
in front, a graceful hilum- net
drape fell to his ankles. A
bunch of long leaves bustled his
behind. Standard male dress in
the valley ; but more important
men wore more colorful acces-
sories.
Staccato yodelling - cries
echoed down the steep slopes
on either side; young bucks,
returning to the village, chiacking
the girls below.
“A ’o ! A ’o-a’o-a’o !”
“A’o ! A’o-a’o-a’o !”
Replies came faintly from the
village a couple of thousand feet
below, down where the mountain
timber gave way to the tall
kunai-grass that floored the
valley.
Kopa heard his own name
float up. His reply was like an
echo of the last undulating
syllable. He gathered the slim
casuarina-logs he’d cut and
arranged them raftlike on his
shoulders, stooped and picked
up his bow and three-pronged
pigeon-arrows. Then he began
jog-trotting down the track, knees
bent under the weight of the
firewood.
jT'OPA’S world was high up,
and the nights were cold for
naked people.
It was a long gash in New
Guinea’s mountain backbone.
About ten miles wide, the
valley stretched east and west
for eighty miles. Its floor lay at
6000 ft. and the jagged sur-
rounding peaks scratched the
sky in places at over 15,000. Six
degrees south of the Equator.
Kopa was not concerned with
these things. Few things con-
cerned Kopa. Too few, his two
brothers were never tired of
telling him.
Ngaha and Parigia were men
of standing among the Muruku
people. They were fight-leaders
and had killed enemies; their
wives were handsome and
diligent, their children sturdy.
They owned pigs and kina- shell.
Kopa had the sole distinction of
being their butt and scapegoat,
Tacking down the face of the
mountain, balancing the load on
his shoulders, he had a bird’s-
eye view of the village as it came
slowly up to meet him. A horse-
shoe of round grass-huts within
a palisade surrounded by a
chequerwork pattern of gardens
and zigzag fighting-ditches,
smoke rising lazily above.
Swiftly the dark claimed it, leav-
ing only the red eyes of fires.
Kopa negotiated the ditches
and went through the palisade
gate into the village, where
family groups stood and
squatted, silhouetted round the
fires. Here and there a head
turned and, recognising Kopa,
turned away without a greeting.
Kopa was rubbish. Most people
followed the elder brothers’
line.
He dumped his load under the
family’s thatched firewood-
shelter.
“Aeeee!” Ngaha bellowed.
“The men are back from the
forest. The women are back
from the gardens. And now
Kopa has arrived! Wa!”
He burlesqued the traditional
greeting to guests with a palm-
outward come-hither gesture.
Kopa went over to the fire.
Ngaha stood flame-lit and
arrogant, plumes dancing above
his head and a white slash of
teeth in his beard. He threw his
head back and roared with
laughter. Near by, men laughed
with him and women giggled.
Kopa squatted near the
warmth in silence and was soon
forgotten. He pushed some
kau-kau into the embers. He
had no wife to cook for him.
Wives cost pigs and kina- shell,
and Kopa owned nothing but
the axe.
“Kopa ! Tekera \m !” came a
guttural order from behind him.
Kopa rose and walked back to
where Parigia stood in the leap-
ing shadows.
“Come on —jump to it!”
Parigia repeated. “Show me the
firewood!” He whirled a kunai
torch to life and followed Kopa.
“Ha!” Parigia’s throaty voice
rose. “A boy’s load! I should
send you back for more! Now ;
in the dark!”
“Yes!” Kopa flared surpris-
ingly. “Let’s both go!”
“With you?” His brother
jeered. Bluster. The night held
spirits. The valley people
ventured abroad at night only
on ceremonial occasions, in
great strength, amid flame and
sparks from whirling torches.
Kopa knew' his load of 'fire-
wood was a good one, but he
said no more. He rarely made
a stand. The tyranny had
developed so gradually and
inevitably that he almost
accepted it as his due. Only
recently had there been rare,
swift moments of rebellion.
“A boy’s load,” Parigia
ranted on. “A boy’s heart!
You’ll never kill and prove your-
self a man. Nor will the women
ever know you! ”
He turned and strode away.
TTIGH-PITCHED hilarity
broke out round the fire.
Parigia was staggering grotes-
quely under the weight of an
arrow held aloft in one hand,
the other flung out for balance.
Kopa’s reappearance didn’t stop
the pantomime. Parigia, his
painted, bearded face fear-
somely distorted with the effort
of his “weight-lifting,” extracted
the last ounce from it.
Kopa squatted sullenly and
fished his kau-kau from the
coals and broke them open to
cool.
The laughter died of exhaus-
tion. Again he was forgotten.
He could feel the axe against his
flank; again something
smouldered within him. Resent-
ment?* Ambition? Perhaps, as
yet, nothing so clearly defined.
But the whips wielded by Ngaha
and Parigia were starting to
sting.
Ignored, Kopa ate, staring into
the glow of the coals, his brow
deep-wrinkled in snail-pace cogi-
tation. Finally he rose and went
into the low, round, grass-
thatched hut, lay on his back
over against the wall and slept.
Kopa had not yet seen the
white men. Their outpost was
eastward along the valley, just
beyond the territory of the
Nalas, a fierce people hostile to
the Murukus.
But the white men’s talk had
reached the Murukus. There
will be no more land-wars, they
said. And no more killing ,over
pigs and women. The valley
people must bring their com-
plaints to us. We will see justice
done and offenders punished.
Partly because they had made
his incredible axe Kopa was in-
ordinately intrigued by the
white men. He soaked in all the
talk about their powerful medi-
cines and their strange weapons
that made the loudest noise in
the world. Three white men!
Nala spears and arrows would
surely kill them, said the
Murukus.
Parigia and Ngaha made
boasts of what would happen if
the intruders walked on Muruku
ground. Their weapons made a
great noise but were harmless.
(Shots had been fired over Nala
heads.) True, the white men had
shown no fear of arrows; but
they were men, and arrows
would kill them.
pARLY sun struck the Muruku
J ~ y huts, warming them and
hatching-out their tight-packed
occupants. Women and children
first.
Fires were stirred and smoke
in still, blue columns rose over
the village. Low-lying layers
of cloud rose, wafer-thin, shred-
ding and melting between the
smoky-blue ramparts of the
valley. Wisps, lacy - white,
clung to the peaks with their
spider-web tenacity ; high above'
and infinitely remote. In the
west the pale disk of the moon
still lingered.
A hard foot rasped down
Kopa’s thigh aroused him.
“Are you sick? Are you
dying?” Ngaha spat down at
him.
“No. You need not fear my
spirit yet,” Kopa mumbled,
waking cranky.
“Ho!” Ngaha said, startled.
“Aeeee !”
His open palm struck like the
crack of dry wood. Kopa, half
on his feet, fell prone.
Fury blazed in Ngaha’s deep-
set eyes, ringed with white
beneath the red-daubed forehead.
His cheeks were painted yellow
and a ( white bone pierced his
nose. Teeth' and gums were
bared as he bent over Kopa and
struck, again.
“Your spirit!” Ngaha snarled.
“Pig’s dung! Up the mountain
with you—and bring a man-
sized load of timber! Or would
you rather kill a Nala and grow
up? Kill him, take his pigs, his
kina- shell, and buy a wife? No?
The white men make you
tremble?”
“When you killed there were
no white men,” Kopa muttered,
stung to rebel.
“White men —aarrch !” Ngaha
death-rattled, and spat.
Kopa stooped through the
doorway and stood in the warm-
ing sun, smarting.
The open central place of the
village was full of activity. Some
women still crouched over their
cooking; others, babies
straddling their swaying hips,
or slung in string-bags, were
striding gracefully out through
the palisade towards the gardens.
Two youths went by carrying a
half-grown pig trussed to a pole.
“Ask one good shell for it,” an
old man quavered after them.
Beyond the palisade, in full
regalia, sentries paced the
mounds paradise - plumes,
painted faces, ten-foot decorated
spears held vertically.
Kopa toed a couple of kau-kau
from the ashes and jerked some
bananas from a bunch ripening
under the eaves of the hut. He
slid the axe into his belt, picked
out his bow and arrows and
walked out of the village. He
ate as he went.
/"''LIMBING through the
straight, sad casuarinas he
heard the valley talk—the day’s
news being yodelled and relayed
along the range—without much
interest. Kopa’s thoughts, slow
and deep, were elsewhere.
He was more aware, this
morning, of the dull fire
smouldering within him. Ngaha's
hard hand had slapped into
shape the beginnings of a plan.
The shape made Kopa sweat
with fear. But the foetal plan
was feeding on Ngaha’s vicious
nagging, Parigia’s uproarious,
humiliating comedy, the women’s
blatant giggling, the contempt in
the eyes of the village—on all
these it fed, and it was doing
well.
In the high thin air on the
mountain Kopa paused to rest.
As his lungs steadied he began
to think. Tension gripped him
—a strange, new experience—
and his sweat turned icy cold.
He drew the axe and twirled
it in the sun, squinting intently
as the light splashed on the
blade. He held it firmly then,
sitting cross-legged, and bent
over it almost in obeisance. The
furrows on his brow relaxed.
Standing again, he stared
down at the mosaic of the valley.
Antbed villages, chequerwork
gardens, tiny paths and hair-
thin fighting-ditches, black-
patched grassfires, soft cloud-
shadows and sharp-cut tones of
timber.
From the Muruku village be-
low his deep-set eyes swept east-
ward, plumbing the distant
depths of the to the
smokes and gardens of the Japoi
people, and beyond into the
blue morning haze where the
warlike Nalas lived.
Kopa studied all this intently,
then turned and made his way
higher up the jungle-shrouded
flank of the range. He paused
once and fixed a broken stick,
like an inverted V across the
dwindling track, to halt evil
spirits who might follow and
confuse him.
At mid-morning he stopped
and rested where the sun caught
a great rock thrust out from
the steepness of the jungle,
lungs heaving and breath like
shovelled gravel. He’d be seen
by no one here. He could rest
and think. He'd cut no wood


CHATEAU TANUNDA
NO. 20
The First
Budget
Charles
Cowper
The first Budget in Australia’s history,
announced almost exactly 100 years ago, was
probably notable as much as anything for its
rejection of the principle of direct taxation. The
total revenue from the colony for the year 1855
was in the vicinity of £1,000,000, of which £310,000
came from customs duties on spirits.
Since then we have gone a long way down the taxation
highway. According to recent Budget figures, the
Commonwealth Government aims to raise
£1,095,000,000 in 1956-57 and New South Wales hopes
to collect more than £28,000,000.
When Charles Cowper (in due course to be five
times Premier of N.S.W.) announced the State’s first
Estimates in September, 1856, he said that '‘many are
prejudiced against the system of direct taxation” and
that his Ministry had thought it desirable "not to intro-
duce any measure involving that question this session.”
Cowper’s Estimates included £70,000 for "Roads to
the interior,” £30,000 “to enable the Government to
deal with those numerous applications by hon. gentle-
men on behalf of their constituencies,” and £30,000
"to encourage the establishment of municipalities
throughout the colony.”
In his speech on the Estimates, the Premier said
that it was proposed to meet the cost of large-scale
works by loan and that gold-diggers were to be taxed
by the imposition of a "miners' right” to be collected
at the rate of £1 half-yearly.
This indication that the principle of direct taxation
was not so far away was coupled with an admission that
some Government offices were overstaffed. “We are
determined to reconstruct, to re-organise, the depart-
ments so that there may be unity of action,” Cowper
said. To help the promised "reconstruction, the
Estimates for 1856-57 set aside £4,000 "to meet the
claims of officers whom it may be no longer desirable
to retain in their offices.”
Recurring crises, largely due to lack of party dis-
cipline, afflicted the early ministries in N.S.W. and this
Budget was not put into effect in its original form. A
constitution for N.S.W. had received Royal assent on
July 16, 1855, and the first Parliament, headed by
Stuart Alexander Donaldson, met on May 22, 1856,
Donaldson's ministry lasted less than three months
and actually resigned on the day it had been intended
to introduce a Budget. A second ministry headed by
Cowper lasted only six weeks. Donaldson then took
office again as treasurer in a Ministry led by Henry
Watson Parker, which stayed in power 11 months,
when Cowper became Premier once more.
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY., LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
ioday— later the axe must be
sharp. And Kopa must not be
tired.
He lay on his belly on the
warmth of the rock and let his
eyes range the valley, the 30
green miles stretching from the
Muruku territory through the
Japoi to the hostile Nala lands.
Kopa’s rock jutted out at
10,000 ft. —4000 ft. above his
village. For an hour or so he
looked down at the tracery of
paths, the twisting silver of
streams and the tiny clusters
of Japoi huts in the flat green
carpet of kunai. Towards noon
the warmth and the thin air
combined to make him pleas-
antly drowsy. He ate the remain-
ing bananas, let his face slump
on his forearms and slept.
THE Japois were neutral
people. They fought neither
the Murukus adjoining them on
the west, nor the Nalas on the
east.
An age-old trade-route from
beyond the valley came down
through the Japoi land, and the
strange men who used it from
time to time would trade only
through the Japoi, traditionally
friendly.
Kopa’s axe had come this
route. He had paid four blue
bird-of-paradise—highly valued
outside the valley. Kopa’s ears
had blistered at Parigia’s assess-
ment of his business-sense. Till
then only Ngaha and Parigia of
the Murukus had such axes.
The sun was halfway down
the sky when Kopa came fully
awake and again grappled with
his task. To reach Nala country
along the violently upthrust
maze of peaks and craters form-
ing the range would be impos-
sible. The alternative was to
go via the Japoi villages and
gardens.
To do this during the day
would mean death. Though the
neutral Japoi would not hinder
him, they would voice news of
his passage and the talk would
reach the Nalas. They would
be ready and waiting for him.
So it came to Kopa, lying like
a lizard on his rock, that he
must pass through the Japoi
country at night, and be hidden
near a Nala village at day-
break.
He thought about this for a
long time. He thought about
the white men, just beyond the
Nalas, and their new laws. He
stared down again at the huddle
of Aspro-sized huts in the
Muruku palisade, and a slow
smile lightened his features. He
had the air of a brown hawk
hovering over chickens.
With the low sun again slant-
ing lazy red light into the valley
Kopa left the rock. Toes clutch-
ing roots and stones embedded
in the track, he threaded his way
down. He passed through a layer
of icy, damp cloud and shivered.
Emerging below its blind grey-
ness he again laid a broken stick
behind him.
Far across the valley golden
rain, caught in the sunset, was
falling on the great-mountain-
which-was-once-a-man, Ekabo
—a good omen.
Kopa heard the high-pitched
cries of Muruku men returning
to the village. He warily kept
well above them.
The long, purple shadows
were creeping over the floor of
the valley. Across, high against
the sky, blood-red clouds
tumbled slowly down Ekabo’s
great shoulder, slow, like burn-
ing lava. Above, thin swathes
of gold lay flat against the sky.
At the fringe of the timber
that clothed the lower slopes
Kopa stopped and squatted. He
had some waiting to do. Before
him the kunai sloped steeply to
the village, still small beneath
its peaceful plume of smoke.
At this level the air was
warmer, and breathing easier.
Kopa’s well-padded chest moved
almost imperceptibly.
A still dusk filled the valley.
The cries and hulloos dwindled
and died as the last of the men
drew near the village. Dusk
turned fast to darkness. Again
all was swept from sight but the
red blink of fires. Across the
valley the black bulk of Ekabo
and his attendant peaks reared
high against the stars.
”0 Kopa-a-a-a! Wti-a-a !
Tekerciwa-a-a !”
Bugle-clear the call floated
from the village.
“Kopa-a-a! ”
Half-dozing, Kopa filled his
lungs and opened his mouth . . .
then let the air go and ignored
the summons, wide-awake again.
He could not wait much
longer. Going with caution it
was a full night’s walk to the
Nala lands. He would leave
the Muruku section of the
valley, familiar as his hand, in
the pitch-dark before the moon
rose. In moonlight he would
pass through the neutral Japois,
where he would have to see
where he was going.
There was little movement
now in the village. The fires
were burning low. There was
the soft throb of a drum, and
thin music from reed-pipes
carried in the air. The music
seemed to rise out of the ground
around him, but Kopa knew it
came from the village. He rose
and moved quietly down the
track. He was invisible, a part
of the night.
T IKE all the valley people,
Kopa was afraid of the
night. As he went down there
were moments of shivering fear,
and he longed for the protection
of a torch.
But he had made his plan
and he clung to it. In fact, as he
skirted the village gardens,
where he seemed to breathe thfe
music of the drum and reeds,
the plan assumed solidity.
Strangely, it became a comfort-
ing thing to cling to ; the only
thing he had now.
He found the well-trodden
path leading east towards the
Japoi, and moved swiftly. Near
the end of the Muruku land he
slipped into a banana-patch and
ate while he waited for the
moon.
Soon the sky turned pale
silver, silhouetting the broad
banana-leaves, and Kopa was
glad to move again. It had been
cold waiting.
Ahead he heard the sound of
tumbling water, and a few
minutes later stood in shadow
at the stream which divided
Muruku from Japoi.
A spindly stick - and - vine
bridge crossed the stream. Be-
fore going over Kopa went down
the bank and drank. Then,
holding the vine runner, he
swayed across.
For a time he kept to the
path, which ran along the' base
of the range, curling with the
contours; through the never-
ending kunai, past occasional
clumps of bamboo or bananas,
by strips of garden, and once
through a long tunnel of shadow
where mountain timber over-
flowed the track. But mainly
the Japoi land was waist-high
grass.
Harsh white light now flooded
the valley. Kopa was walking
into the face of the moon. He
crossed another stream where
several tracks converged, and
knew a village lay ahead.
He left the main path and at
some distance moved parallel
through the grass. Over on his
left the White expanse of grass
flowed up to the dark sheath of
timber on the range. Also on
his left, where the path ran, he
saw the top of the Japoi pali-
sade, and soon was detouring
round the village gardens . . .
maize, kau-kau, tapioca and
irrigation-ditches.
Fortunately, few < dogs had
reached the valley. These were
so reduced in ferocity by a
vegetarian diet that it took a
particularly savage kick to get
a yelp out of them. Meat was
a rare luxury in the valley, and,
in the form of pigs, was
normally reserved for ceremonial
occasions or for high-level
barter.
In fact, hll Kopa heard passing
this village was a couple of
grunts from pigs calaboosed for
the night.
ViyHEN the moon had made
** the centre of the sky two
more Japoi villages and several
gurgling, stony streams lay
behind him.
A tall grass headdress now
mingled with the hawk’s-wings
sprouting from Kopa’s pumpkin-
like leaf-turban. From time
to time he gripped the axe, drew
strength and purpose from the
feel of it. But twice he paused
to bend a length of pit-pit cane
like an inverted V over his back-
trail in the kunai. The evil
spirits of the night were known
to be persistent, and might still
be following. •
As he travelled now Kopa
kept a wary eye on the sinking
moon behind him. He was
drawing near the Nala boundary
and soon the day would come.
And this day would bring a
change in his status in the
Muruku. No more “trash” talk!
He’d stand as high as any man.
Alone, he’d have killed a Nala
man, on Nala ground!
A deep stream, still roaring
with the fury of its plunge from
some dizzy eyrie, marked the
beginning of the Nala lands.
Kopa heard it long before he
stood rock-still studying the
spider-web \bridge slung over it.
Aloft and far ahead there was
a faint lightening in the sky.
Kopa’s heart was pounding. He
crossed the bridge.
Again Kopa left the pathway
and moved carefully in the
screening grass. Now death
crept beside him like a solid
thing. sHe could feel it there ;
but his inborn stolidity
cushioned the feeling.'
He had to strike early in the
morning—early enough to get
away far out into the swampy
centre of the valley avoided by
the people, and lie low. When
night returned he would make
his way back through these
sodden grasslands to the
Murukus.
The sky ahead turned a shade
lighter behind the shark-teeth of
the ranges, and the low moon
behind Kopa lost its fire. In
an eerie dawn twilight he crossed
several tracks in the grass
angling towards the main path-
way. He was near a Nala
village.
The path was hard, red earth
curving through the kunai. Noth-
ing moved. Nothing —except in
one place, where the bordering
grass turned slowly, a little this
way, a little that. Except for
slight head-movements Kopa
crouched motiohless.
He saw the summit of a
towering cloud smoulder and
catch fire. Faintly he heard the
Nala village come to life. There
was the smell of wood-smoke.
The day had come.
■pOUR men approached along
the path, red and golden
paradise-plumes above their
heads, faces painted vivid red
and yellow, pigs’ tusks in their
noses. Flat on their chests,
beneath each neat black beard,
was a broad, white, crescent
kina- shell. They had wide
bark belts and swaying drapes.
Each carried axe r knife, spear
and bow.
They strode past Kopa talking
and laughing softly, their long
shadows stretched before them
on the path. There was no
movement in the grass.
A short time passed.
Aa-a-h!
At the extent of Kopa’s vision
appeared a man, a woman and
a toddling child; the man
accoutred like the others, the
woman young, firm-breasted,
handsome, naked but for her
narrow, ankle-length net-sporran
and shell-and-bead ornaments.
The man walked on Kopa’s side
of the pathway.
The trio drew abreast, and
Kopa sprang from the grass. The
man whirled lightning-fast, step-
ping back. The axe missed his
head and struck him in the chest.
Again the axe whirled, and
split the screaming, painted face
from hair to throat. Kopa felt
a hot gush of the N ala’s blood,
and heard the woman shrieking.
Struck motionless with horror,
she had found her voice.
Kopa leaped to silence her;
but shrieking had restored her
to a lithe young animal, and
she eluded him. The woman
snatched the child to her
stomach and, bent double, shot
towards the shelter of the grass.
Kopa aimed the axe to split
the velvety brown back and—
something crashed against his
head. Kopa didn’t feel the hard
earth crush his nose.
/CONSCIOUSNESS came jolt-
ing back to Kopa, and every
jolt exploded in his head.
He was slung like a pig under
a long pole, bound by wrists and
feet, being carried by a brace of
stalwart Nalas. Many others
marched around him.
There was racking pain in
head, face, wrists and ankles.
The sun was high and Kopa’s
thirst itself was painful. But
as his mind cleared a great
shuddering fear speared through
him.
A savage Nala chant rose and
fell around him. Many wprds
were strange, but gradually
Kopa caught the gist of it.
They sang the story of a
craven murder, of a woman’s
screams, of a Nala warrior burst-
ing from the grass and lunging
with his axe as the murderer
leaped to silence the woman; of
the warrior standing over the
unconscious murderer and
delaying the death-blow till the
elders came.
The elders in their wisdom,
sang the Nalas, decided to use
this opportunity to test the new
justice of the white men. The
Kiap, the white chief, had come
among the Nalas, and had
spoken: If your enemies do
you wrong / will punish them, he
had said. Bring your troubles to
me!
“Aeeee! We bring you a
trouble! We'bring you the gift
of a pig!
“You will punish him! You
o Continued on next page)
HAWK
Although the field-tanned, sparrowhawk suspends
his light caress of fingering wings in air
for a dazzling pause of seconds, there is no love.
From that blue height he could discern these bends
and snail-white shallows where the Brisbane rends
the dying-wattle glow of farmlands as
deftly as with shears, or marvel at
this worming knot of hills —but he descends
(like waterfalls of gold) on to his tensed
and dying prey and has not seen or known
the word of beauty, only lust. And then
when we abhor him most, irt a glanced
and soaring surf of amber he consummates
a curving union with the sky —and only
in his claws the terror lies. We cannot
reconcile this twofold image he creates.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


a*
LOOK
\o
The development of Queensland’s power resources is of
National importance to ever/ Australian ! You can play
YOUR part in helping to strengthen our Northern gateway
by an iovestment in the State Electricity Commission of
Queensland Loan. There is no safer, more worthwhile
investment to protect and profit YOU and AUSTRALIA !
The STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION of OLD. LOAN
FOR 7 OR 20 YEARS
OR
SHORT TERM for S YEARS
• You can invest £5O or any multiple* of
£5O, and subscribe by instalments, if
you wish.
• Interest is payable at HALF-yearly
intervals. It is almost DOUBLE Bank
Interest.
• Loan securities are fully negotiable
and can be converted to cash at any
time.
• The Loan is an Authorised Trustee
Investment in Qld., W.A., and Tas.
APPLY free of exchange through any
branch of the Commonwealth /Trading
Bank, Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited, Bank „of New South Wales, any
Stockbroker, any Regional Electricity
Board office or direct to the State Elec-
tricity Commission of Queensland, 127
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
LOAN CLOSES OCTOBER 20, 1956
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord & Minnett, Sydney
will punish his people the
Murukus! So the white men
shall be strong friends of the
Nalas! Aeeee ! We make clever
use of the white men!”
On they marched, white-
daubed with mourning-clay,
plumed and ferocious, stamping
and chanting.
Kopa swung and jerked under
the pole, backside swinging like
a pendulum in the red dust above
his blot of shadow. The plan
had come to an end ; but he had
killed! And still he lived.
The chant, extolling the dead
warrior, jeering exultantly at the
Muruku - pig’s predicament,
added nothing to Kopa’s discom-
fort. He was long inured to
humiliation, and in the midst of
his pain, bewilderment and
terror was a faint pinpoint of
hope: The white men.
There was little in the loose,
jerking burden with the lolling
head to indicate that it was con-
scious and thinking.
DATROL - OFFICER DUF-
A FIELD said, “You know,
that's the fifteenth consecutive
meal of bully-beef and kau-
kau!” i
“Bear up, Duffy,” said the
District Officer. “When the
strip’s finished”
“I Know, Mac—they’ll fly in
more bully to go with the kau-
kau !”
“Hold .it, Duffy,” said Patrol-
Officer Johns suddenly. “There’s
something on! ”
He hitched his packing-case
seat nearer the doorway and
squinted into the midday glare
outside.
The outpost was three or four
raw, newly-thatched buildings
strung along the beginnings of an
airstrip. In one of them the three
men had been sitting around a
rough table finishing lifnch.
Mac held a match to a pipe
jutting from a fiery red
moustache, and puffed till a
satisfactory cloud of smoke sur-
rounde4 him, then got off his
box and joined his senior assist-
ant at the doorway.
“What’s afoot, Johnno?”
“Dunno, Mac —some sort o{
song-an’-dance coming up. Hear
it?”
Outside, a couple of stocky
police-boys stared intently along
the strip, listening. Beyond them
a crowd of natives cutting grass
had turned towards the sound.
‘‘Talk ’ini turnimtalk i come,”
Mac told a police-boy.
“What name?” he asked the
interpreter, jerking his chin
towards the hubbub. “You hear
’im?”
‘‘Me hear ’im, masta. Nala i
come.”
“I come long what name?”
‘‘Ol i come long talk, tasol.
Imi got bigfela cross long
Muruku. Onefela man bilong
Muruku makim die finis onefela
man bilong Nala.”
‘‘Muruku man—imi die finis ?”
‘‘Nogot, masta. Nala kisim i
comg.”
“Good God !•” young Duffield
exploded. “They’re actually
bringing in a prisoner! You have
made your mark with’em, Mac! ”
“It’s just the good old try-
out,” Mac murmured. He eased
his long frame into a low stick-
and-canvas chair outside the
building and resumed his after-
lunch smoke. The younger men
followed suit.
The white-daubed procession
stamped along the clearing.
“One thing you can * always
depend on,” said Mac, “is the
unexpected.”
TN front of the white men the
Nalas halted and the chanting
died. Armed police-boys stood
strategically handy. Mac let his
eyes rest on Kopa.
“Something bilong you,
Duffy,” he said to that young
man. “Have ’em carry him into
the sick-house. Cut him loose
and patch him up a bit. Sergeant
Wurumo!”
“Yessir!”
“You go long master
Duffield.”
“Yessir!”
The interpreter rattled it off
and at a gesture from the Nala
leader Kopa’s bearers accom-
panied Duffield and the sergeant,
The Nala party squatted in a
half-circle on the grass. Then
one man stood and faced the
District Officer.
“Husat i got talk ?” Mac
asked, and the spokesman let
himself go.
He told the tale fairly enough,
with a wealth of indignation,
violent pantomime, and a
reminder of the Kiap’s guaran-
tees covering cases of this kind.
He paused for the interpreter
to catch up only after his most
effective periods. His squatting
supporters allowed themselves
only brief ejaculations of
approval. The speaker was a
specialist.
“I will keep the man prisoner,”
Mac told them. “I will go to
your village, and I will go to the
Muruku village. Then I will
decide the matter of punishment
and compensation. In bringing
the man to me you have acted
with wisdom. That’s all.”
The Nalas accepted this, not
pleased with the delayed retribu-
tion, and marched off. New
verses were added to their chant
before it died in the distance.
“Touchy business,” Mac mur-
mured over a sundown rhum-
negrita. “Bound to be some-
thing behind it. How’s the bloke,
Duffy?”
“Half-scalped. Busted boko.
Wrists and ankles skinned raw.
Nothing serious. Must have an
ironbark skull"! ”
“Good. I’ll have a go at him
tomorrow. Here’s luck!”
Mac spent a long time ques-
tioning Kopa ( —the first Muruku
he’d met. Nearly two hours of
painstaking probing. He was
patient while the interpreter
searched for precise meanings.
From Kapa he learned much
that was useful about the
Muruku way of life. He was
able to piece together a fair
picture of Kopa’s background.
“Bloody interesting,” he ad-
mitted at lunch. “A spot of
spurring and goading behind it.
I’ll push off tomorrow. Show
the flag. Clean up this little
matter. Sigi! More tea!”
TIJAR ahead of the patrol the
A news of Kopa’s exploit
reached the Murukus.
Ngaha and Parigia affected
vast amusement, and met
murmurings of respect for Kopa
with gales of laughter.
Parigia had halted two youths
carrying a sucking-pig trussed
to a light pole and bound a
plume to its muddy head.
“Kopa!” he roared, with a
great sweep of his arm, and the
piglet had turned a black eye
fearfully and comically towards
him.
A week later a circle of old
men huddled on skinny haunches
in the village dust.
“Ai!” said a greybeard in
the group. “There is indeed a
change since the Kiap came and
listened and then talked!”
“True, a great change,” said
another. “Ngaha and Parigia
are angry and unhappy.”
“And why not? Look at
Kopa. He went alone, at night,
and killed a Nala man.”
“On Nala ground!”
“True!”
“That called for courage.”
“But for twelve moons he will
remain a prisoner of the white
men. That is unfortunate.”
“You speak like an old fool,
Ngaiapu! True, he is a prisoner.
But he eats meat every day like
the white men themselves. He
is learning a great deal of their
wisdom and their magic and
their tongue. He is growing fat,
the talk goes.”
“And before this moon is
ended he is to fly in the white
man’s bird, the balus, to the edge
of the world, to the water-
without-an-end, where there are
many prisoners. After twelve
moons, when the balus brings
him back, he will be a great
man. He will have seen things
no other man has seen. He will
have much to tell us. I look
forward to that day.”
“But Ngaha and Parigia do
not look forward to it.”
“Aeee ! How angry they are!
The Kiap is shrewd. He saw
many things. It is true, as he
said, that as a prisoner Kopa
cannot pay many pigs and much
kina- shell in compensation to
the Nalas.”
“And it is right, therefore, as
he said, that Kopa’s brothers
must work hard and pay the
debt.”
“Ai! While Kopa lives like
a chief, Ngaha and Parigia are
working for Kopa! Ha-lie-e-e!
There is a change here!”


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
6f x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 Ins.
Plain"or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O'Sullivan 5$
Envelop * Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
*O4 -*OB QUEER STREET, BRISBANE
CHAIRMAN OF WALTONS-SEARS LIMITED
REPORTS ON NEW PROFIT RECORDS
SALES INCREASES
IN EVERY STORE!
NEW SEARS. ROEBUCK
METHODS NOW IN USE
T. V. Houser, Chairman of Sears, Roebuck and Company Cables
"We value our association with you."
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
There is every cause for Satis-
faction with the new records
established in the year and
shown in the published results.
I refer in particular to the total
volume of business, £20,000,000,
the Net Profit, £480,551, and the
maintaining of our established
dividend rate of 15% on Ordin-
ary Capital.
This will be the tenth succes-
sive year in which Ordinary
Dividend at the rate of 15% has
been paid. For 17 out of the past
21 years, 15% has been the rate
of dividend on Ordinary Capital,
and in this 21 years the Ordinary
Capital of the Company has been
multiplied 22 times. A dividend
history unsurpassed in our field.
SALES INCREASES
IN EVERY STORE
The increase in volume of
business was shared by every
single store —some increases being
very substantial. The sales of
our biggest unit at Park and
George Streets, Sydney, were
more than four times the sales
upon which this store was ac-
quired by your Company. In-
creased business combined With
increased efficiency enabled the
Company to offset the greater
costs, such as wages, interest,
taxation in the period. The re-
cent increase in Company In-
come Tax alone cost the Com-
pany approximately £40,000 for
the year. Much abnormal and
development expense was also
absorbed.
PREPARATION
FOR THE FUTURE
Because of this developmental
expense, the Company is in bet-,,
ter condition to take advantage
of future opportunities, but there
is much still to’be done. How-
ever, what has already been
accomplished in this change-over
to Sears Roebuck methods has
resulted in improvements in mer-
chandise, value offered, service
to customers, staff relationships,
personnel training, turn of stock
and handling costs. The integra-
tion of Overells’ Ltd., Brisbane,
and Wakes Consolidated Ltd. in-
to our Group was made in close
consultation with Sears, Roebuck
and Co., and was part of our
plans for the future. An import-
ant asset absorbed with Wakes
was a 20-acre block of land,
excellently situated to play a part
in our future retail operations.
STAFF AND THE
PROFIT SHARING FUND
It is my pleasure to pay a warm
tribute indeed to all members of
our Staff for the year’s results.
From their own contributions
and the Company’s contributions,
employees will have an ever-
increasing ownership interest in
the results and well-being of the
Company. I believe there is no
better way to ensure progress
and success for any company
than to have a well-formulated
plan by which the people who
make the profit stand to gain
from the profit made.
26 YEARS OF PROGRESS
The past 26 years has been
a period of continual progress
and success, and the foundations
laid in the earlier years have
been taken advantage of to the
full in recent years. It may be
of interest to the newer Share-
holders that the Total Share-
holders’ Funds, now standing at
£5,666,257, was only £138,567 in
1930.
CONGRATULATIONS FROM
SEARS, ROEBUCK AND CO.
Mr. Theodore V. Houser, Chair-
man of that Company and a
Director of our Company, has
given his personal attention to
all matters affecting our interests
despite the enormous demands
on his time as the first execu-
tive of a Company which em-
ploys over 200,000 people and
which has a great diversity of
interests. A cable just received
from him reads: “Congratula-
tions on annual results. We value
our association with you”. To
enable us to know and employ
to the full the methods and
techniques which have made
them so successful, Sears have
provided us with executive assis-
tance in Australia to the full
extent of our capacity to use it.
In addition, they have thrown
open all doors of their stores,
offices and warehouses, and have
made available every facility in
U.S.A. for us to acquire this
important knowledge.
GROWTH OF THE COMPANY
5950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1955
£6,000,000
£5.000,000
£<.000,000
£3, 000,000
£2.000,000
£1.000,000
(950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1955
£20,000,000
£18,000,000
£16,000,000
£14,000,000
£12,000,000
£10,000,000
£8,000,000
£6,000,000
£4,000,000
£2,000,000
£0
1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 195»
msu,
» ■
n
msam
k
LIMITED
Seeing Stars
By MAUREEN LUSON
AUDREY HEPBURN was
the first, and I rather liked
her —except for the smell
of castor-oil. You see,
someone told her it would make
her eyebrows and lashes grow.
She spent a lot of money on eye
make-up, and almost nothing on
clothes.
She was very polite, had a fey
smile, and never moved without
darting. When she didn’t dart,
she lay on the floor reading The
Brothers Karamazov, or on the
sofa in a sort of trance, which
would be intense after a session
with one of her boy-friends.
They were all the hypnotic type,
dear. You know —deep-set eyes
and flaring nostrils and very
taciturn. I think the castor-oil
may have had something to do
with the nostrils.
But life was really quite
uneventful unless Audrey decided
to dart into the kitchen just as
1 was taking a roast out of the
oven or carrying a tray of glasses
to the china-cupboard.
She lost a good deal of
weight, and she would ask ques-
tions like: “Mother, have you
ever wondered what it would be
like to be someone entirely
divorced from reality?” and
“Have you ever longed passion-
ately to arrest time —to preserve
one sublime second for all
eternity?”
But, on the whole, I under-
stood Audrey.
REYNOLDS was a
** strain. So cute. I mean,
dear, cuteness is bearable in its
place, which is not before break-
fast. Debbie was always bright
so early, flinging open windows
and performing contortions she
called “callisthenics” in front of
them.
And she jived.
Our carpets may not be wall-
to-wall, but they do hide the
floor ; having them rolled back
so often gave me a horrid feeling
of indecent exposure you
know, dear, like when you’re on
the doctor’s examination-couch,
and you’ve managed to conceal
most of you under the narrow
little sheet, and in comes the
doctor and rips it off.
And Debbie’s boy-friends were
so restless ; when they weren’t
rolling back the carpet, they were
rolling back their eyelids and
singing, rather off-key, in
quavering voices. I always
thought their tongues must be
opulently fur-coated.
Clothes were a drain on the
budget with Debbie; looking
everlastingly cute means so many
extras like frilled shortie-jamas
that need hours of ironing, in
spite qf the labels that say not,
and dozens of petticoats and full
skirts and tucked blouses ; and
little hats from those terrifying
shops with only one in the
window, and no price-tag. No
price-tag always means the sales-
woman treats you like dirt, and
you spend three times what you
intended on what she calls “an
inexpensively - priced model.”
So you don’t impress her as you
hoped you might.
Debbie bought piles of those
shiny American magazines full
of “Notions” and “Musts” and
“Party Set-ups That Are Smart.”
I’d like just a few minutes alone
with the woman who wrote:
“Show Mom and Pop you’re
quite Capable of hostessing your
own party. Coax them off to
enjoy themselves at the movies
while you get busy mixing salads,
fixing hamburgers, and baking
this yummy cake. And be sure
and leave the kitchen exactly as
you found it, kids.”
Well, Debbie coaxed Herbert
and me off to the movies, and
she mixed the salads, fixed the
hamburgers, and baked the
yummy cake.
Unfortunately it never entered
her head that the recipe for the
cake gave American measures.
And by the time she’d put the
third attempt into the oven, the
guests were arriving.
They all had a wonderful time,
and they did leave the kitchen
exactly as they found it. I spent
four days getting it clean again,
and Herbert had to scrape the
meringue off the ceiling with a
chisel.
YES, I really welcomed
Marilyn Monroe. The only
trouble at first was that Herbert
broke his dentures falling over
the bust-developer in the bath-
room ; also, when I’d taken in
all her skirts she would forget
to walk knock-kneed, so that
they split.
It meant such a lot of mending.
Marilyn didn’t talk much ; she
just looked. Before I became
accustomed to her, I suggested
we have her tonsils and adenoids
attended to, because she always
had her mouth open. I’m not
often so untactful, and I soon
realised that it wasn’t her mouth
that was open—it was her lips
that were parted.
The boy-friends were difficult.
They varied so. No sooner had
Herbert and I become adept at
technical chat with heavily-sport-
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD EDWARD JONES late of
Wiley Park.—TAKE NOTICE that
CYNTHIA ALMA JONES has filed a Peti-
tion fpr Divorce No. 3515 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion -without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by-
the 17th day of December 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN W. BINNEY, Soli-
citor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ing types who bashed balls
around than Marilyn would
bring home one of those gloomy,
very unsuccessful young men
who write poetry full of words
like “Amaranthine” and “Behe-
moth.” We felt very illiterate
and suburban not knowing any
of their works, so we bought a
copy of “Modern Southern
Hemispherical Poems” and tried
to reorientate ourselves. I did
quite well, but Herbert would
keep saying loudly how he was
top of his form the year they did
“The Lady of the Lake.”
Then poetry, ancient and
modern, was out. Marilyn began
dating characters with fixed,
fearfully brilliant smiles, who
poured torrents of conversation
over our heads, and then tried to
sell Herbert some red-hot
product.
My right hand is still tender
from their enthusiastic greetings
and farewells.
I worried about Marilyn s
shoulder-straps, too. They got so
thin, I made Herbert test them
for pressure in his workshop
(Herbert’s an engineer, you
know); he wasn’t very co-
operative, because he said he
couldn’t possibly calculate how
deeply Marilyn would breathe
at any given moment.
Then Marilyn started to grow
her hair, and one day she came
back from the hairdresser’s with
it a sort of off-white color.
She looked more sultry than
a day before a thunderstorm.
Diana Dors had arrived.
Well, dear, she really was the
end. You see, Herbert let him-
self go. He told her she might
as well get used to our Morris
Minor’s not being a Cad., and if
she wanted a fur stole it would
have to be rabbit (I did think
he might have said “lapin”). He
also said that, with the cost of
living up again, he’d have to stop
her allowance, so she’d better
think about getting a job.
My poor little Hilda.
MEN don’t understand how
teenage-daughters must be
ticked-off with finesse, do they,
dear?
Well, what I really called to
tell you is that she’s engaged.
Yes, she met him at the office.
Isn’t it thrilling? No, he isn’t
thrilling particularly. He gangles
rather. But so worthy. And
terribly in love with Hilda.
They plan to build their own
home, and Hilda’s cut her hair
short and hardly bothers with
make-up at all; Herbert’s teach-
ing her to use adzes and planes
and things.
Well, yes, dear, I’d be on top
of the world —if it weren’t for
Bobby. He’s sixteen now, you
know.
And Marlon Brando does
mumble so.


Fuitti in th e
Future
One of the great industrial achievements of
our time has been the rise of Canada to such a
high place in mineral development that the powerful
U.S.A. is more dependent on her every year for the
supply of ore and oil.
It is a dramatic story. And I hold strongly to
the belief that Australia, with an all-out exploratory
effort, could come up to a comparable position
among the world’s sources of mineral wealth.
Certainly we have not yet found the oil that
has been Canada’s in flowing abundance —although
Australia has the large sedimentary basins that
could yield commercial oil.
But consider this:
Over at Mount Davis, in the -Tomkinson
Ranges where South Australia and the Northern
Territory join at their western boundary corners,
a rich discovery of nickel has excited international
interest. Its significance is that the great Sudbury
nickel basin of Ontario has been perhaps the largest
single factor in giving Canada its leadership in the
diverse supply of minerals today.
Right across Northern Australia the future of
big-scale mining is being revealed in brilliant
flashes. The uranium story is well known. Now a
vast deposit of bauxite for aluminium is found in
the Gulf of Carpentaria.
The fabulous silver-lead mine at Mount Isa
grows to still &ider importance in the working of
copper reserves that should at least double the
Australian copper output. Tennant Creek goldfield
in the Northern Territory languished for years,
but investigations show that something really
worthwhile in gold will come from there.
More mineral wealth . will be uncovered—in
reaching out from proven fields, in coming upon
completely new finds. It must be sought. The
Canadian experience has been that huge ore bodies,
previously unknown, have been found deep in the
earth by exploration.
Faith, finance, effort—it will take all these.
But the winning will be worth it.
FOR THE FIRST TIME
N EWC ASTLE
INVITES YOU TO GAIN
5i% M 5 YEARS
FROM THE
NEWCASTLE
WATER BOARD
LOAN
The industrial hub of the Commonwealth, Newcastle is strongly
represented in most investment portfolios. Now its most
important public utility offers you this opportunity to share not
only in every phase of Newcastle's expansion, but to safeguard
the remarkable industrial and commercial development that is
taking place.
For the first time, the Board offers you 5J per cent, for optional
terms of 5, 10 or 20 years. The State Government is your
guarantor, and the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. The
striking success of the Board's previous Loan—in February,
1956—makes it advisable to invest promptly.
GIVE YOURSELF A STAKE IN NEWCASTLE'S PROGRESS!
Loan applications may be lodged at any Commonwealth Trading Bank,
through a Stockbroker, or at the Hunter District Water Board offices at
Newcastle, Maitland or Cessnock. ,
Issued at par, Loan No. 75 will close not later than 22nd October, 1956. Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord & Minnett, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney, Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Stanford’s “Prelude on a
Theme of Tallis” (nicknamed “Angels’
Song”).—64ol.
To buy books by Mary Johnston,
particularly By Order of the Company
and The Old Dominion. —6402.
To buy copy of Roderic Quinn’s
Poems. —6406.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm, published by The Bulletin.
—6403.
To buy copy of Newcastle Packets
and the Hunter Valley, by J. H. M.
Abbott; any condition. —6404.
Copies of The Fishes of Australia
(part I; sharks), by G. P. Whitley,
and The Australian Tunas (C.5.1.R.0.
report), by D. L. Serventy.—64os.
Information Sought
Method of removing lipstick- and
rouge-stains ?
(1) Petroleum-jelly and carbon-tetra-
chloride: If water spots the cloth,
work petroleum-jelly or lard into the
stain. Then either sponge with
carbon-tetrachloride or dip the
stained part into a bowl of the solvent.
Sponge any remaining traces of color
with denatured alcohol —1 cup alcohol
to 2 cups water. (2) Hydrogen-
peroxide and sodium-perborate:
Sponge with a mixture of the two
(1 teaspoon perborate to 1 pint
peroxide). Rinse thoroughly. If the
stain persists, dampen the area and
sprinkle on powdered sodium-per-
borate; let stand for half an hour.
Finally rinse well. (N. 8.: Test the
cloth for color-fastness before apply-
ing these bleaches.) (3) Glycerine,
soap and water: If the material is
washable, first loosen the stain (as
before) with petroleum-jelly. Launder.
Soap or other alkalis are apt to set
the stain if applied before the stain
is loosened.
* * * *
Is it correct that unpublished
memoirs of 'Governor Lachlan Mac-
quarie are shortly to be printed ?
Macquarie, Governor of New South
Wales from Jan. 1, 1810, to Dec. 1,
1821, considered it an essential part
of his duties to visit all the outlying
areas of his domains. While on
these tours he kept journals which are
a vivid record of exploration, of visits
to settlers and of the founding of
towns. It is these journals (which,
with other private papers of Mac-
quarie, are preserved in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney) which are now to be
published in full for the first time.
The text will follow the original as
closely as possible, and there will be
notes and an index. The edition will
also contain a facsimile of a page
of one of the manuscripts, 11 plates
in color from contemporary portraits
nd views, and three folding maps. It
will be limited to 1800 copies, 1775
of which will be for sale. Subscribers
may apply for more than one copy,
and additional copies may be available
after all pre-publication subscribers
have been allocated one copy. (Pre-
publication price, £4; on publication,
£4 10s. At the cheaper price if
remittance in by Oct. 31 this year.)
The Journals are being published by
the Trustees of the Public Library of
N.S.W.; they have been chosen as
the first of a series to be selected from
a wealth of original records in the
Mitchell Library and in the recently
bequeathed library of Sir William
Dixson.
* * * *
One year soon after World War I,
as I recall, Australia sold Britain very
little of the wheat it grew. Why was
this ?
Exports of wheat from Australia to
Britain for several years in that period,
as given in the Commonwealth Official
Year Book (No. 19, 1926), are—l92o-
- 38,709,680 bushels; 1921-22,
40,914,035; 1922-23, 10,762,600;
1923 - 24, 23,017,707; 1924 -25,
39,356,580. As can be seen, the figure
for 1922-23 is well below the usual;
and, in fact, there was a fall in
exports to almost every country. In
1923 the European importing countries
had a bountiful crop, 214,880,000
bushels greater than in the previous
year; hence the reduced demand for
Australian wheat. (Exportable
surpluses were carried over until the
crop harvested in Dec., 1925, after
which exports exceeded production by
some 11-million bushels.)
Brief Answers
Digger: (1) The third Balaclava
Dinner (an annual reunion of cavalry
and armored-corps officers) will take
place at the Imperial Service Club,
Barrack-street, Sydney, on Saturday,
October 27. The Balaclava Dinner is
held on the Saturday nearest to the
anniversary of the Charge of the
Light Brigade at Balaclava in 1854.
(2) Those who attended the 1954 and
1955 Balaclava Dinners included
veterans of the South African War, the
Desert Mounted Corps, famous
British Army and Indian Army regi-
ments and the Royal Tank Corps.
Younger members had served in all
theatres of World War 11, in Korea
and Malaya, and others were serving-
officers of the C.M.F. (3) Officers who
have served in cavalry- or armored-
formations in any part of the British
Commonwealth are eligible to attend,
and are invited to write for informa-
tion to the Secretary, Balaclava
Dinner, Imperial Service Club,
Barrack-street, Sydney, N.S.W
V.H.N.: This may depend to some
extent on whether the tree was planted
or grew naturally. But, speaking very
generally, it is unlikely that a tree
becomes a nuisance simply because of
its effect on neighboring soil
J.E.D.: Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger (Endeavour Press, Sydney,
1936) won the 1936 S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize and was first published
as a serial in The Bulletin. Articles
commenting on All That Swagger
appeared in the following issues of
The Bulletin of that year: July 27,
Aug. 19, Aug. 26, Dec. 9, Dec. 30
V.M.: The Australian Bloodhorse, by
Douglas M. Barrie, obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney; price £6 6s
A.J.K.: Most unlikely W.R.:
The world’s first successful seaplane-
flight was made by Henry Fabre on
March 28, 1910, at Port de la Mede,
France. The flight was made in his
seaplane Canard, which travelled 300-
metres on the water before rising to
a height of 500-metres.... Herb: The
average meat-pie packs approxi-
mately 300 calories; a medium-sized
orange, 80 calories; an eight-ounce
glass of the amber-colored liquid,
about 120 calories... .T.R.S.: The
air-brake dates to Westinghouse in
1868... .P.R.O’D.: The Irish Volun-
teers was formed by the Sinn Feiners
in Sept., 1913, following a famous
speech by John Redmond. In Nov.,
1915, they joined forces with the
Citizen Army, and thereafter planned
rebellion against British government.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.E.: Description of “Sunset on a
Beach” no different from a thousand
other descriptions of sunsets on
beaches 8.W.: “Crashing, lumber-
ing,” the oxen-team was last sighted
making its way home along George-
street T.F.: Poems beginning “The
morning beats like a gong” are a little
hard to take on a morning after the
night before A.K.:
She’s sweet and gentle, moves with tender
grace....
A whole world’s love is radiant in her
face—-
Is there a place in all her love for me?
Dunno. Why not ask her?....
L.J.M.: There’s nothing in either
worth making a song and dance about.
1.C.8.E.: Not tempted to “turn
to our pillows, and cry and cry"
D.K.: We must have a bit of it: —
In Egypt, ancient, noble land,
Surrounded by the desert sand,
A Sphinx awoke from forty winks
And said, “I think the Suez stinks.”
And Eden, acting for the best,
Sent Menzies from a cricket Test
Over to Egypt, very wary,
To a conference, Nassersary.
....J.P.: You can take away that
“demon monster with a hundred
yellow eyes” F.5.8.R.: Space only
for four lines:
Perhaps, one day, a nuclear invention
May tap the water from the Pluvian skies.
Assisting Man in his intention
To rid the land from everlasting dries.
... .L.E.: “Rain on Saturday” was a
washout A.E.L.: The Bulletin
does not accept verse that has
appeared elsewhere R.W.G.:
You’re a bit late in the day with your
[Stories, feature articles and
▼erse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
poem to King George VI R.C.P.:
Owing to postal strike poem on
postal strike by a postal officer had
lost its topicality by the time it
arrived J.R.1.: Duly noted that
The Electronic Digital Computer
Is like a giant typewriter, but cuter.
G.M.: The basket claimed all
three 8.0’L.: Try it on your
parish magazine A.L.H.: One
thought from your Suez poem:
THE SUEZ CANAL
Do those on Mars o’er' their own canals
Bicker and fume and shout,
Are they curious why such things should
be
And send their “saucers” out?
J.H.R.: Rattles about like a con-
crete-mixer L.F.: It was poor,
though it was honest... .E.K.E.:
Your ideas are more acrobatic than
anything in the Games J.G.:
Vague F.R.F.: Never write about
painters; don’t write 8000 words until
you’re sure you can write 100
P.G.: 51ight....M.8.C.: You can’t
write about a crime as though it were
just another game of chess—A.W.:
You’ve got a long way t 6 go
8.M.: After all the rain we’ve been
having, that sob-story! —T.M.:
Your atmospherics left us in the fog.
R.S.: Your story, like so many,
sits back and lets things happen and
then says “How sad; how sad!”
W.R.T.: No happy little doggies
R.D.C.: No, no, Mr. Mulliner—
J. M. H.: Unconvincing... .P. M.:
Thought you had something, but it was
only a bottle of salt tears R.C.G.:
No life in it C.E.: Awful
F. 0.: More awful.


Cathedral Personality
Hugh Bancroft, Choirmaster
By ADRIAN WINTLE
A FAIR whack of ray
reasonably recent boy-
hood was spent yodelling
in various choirs, with
consequent experience of a
variety of choirmasters, and now
with one of them in 'particular
remaining indelibly in mind —a
short, stocky English-Canadian
(bom in England, lived mostly
in Canada), an excellent organist
(his degrees included a Fellow-
ship of the Royal College of
Organists) and a quite fearsome
character: H. Hugh Bancroft,
organist and choirmaster of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
1948-1953. He is now doing the
same jobs at All Saints’ Church,
Winnipeg.
The Cathedral choristers were
all drawn from St. Andrew’s
Cathedral Choir School. The
Choir School, besides having an
ordinary school-curriculum up
to the Intermediate Certificate,
encourages those with voices to
use them. Thus there always is
a flourishing Probationers’ Choir,
from which boys ultimately
graduate into the Cathedral
Choir. The school-building is
behind the east towers, separated
from the Cathedral only by a
narrow laneway.
As we knew it, school work
finished at 2.30, and every
Tuesday, Wednesday and Fri-
day we streamed up to the
second-floor for choir-practice.
The wide room there served
alternately as assembly-hall for
the junior school, tuckshop for
the entire school, and practice-
room for the choir. The piano
was a beaut. ; hardly a note
properly in tune, and with
remarkably negligible sustaining-
power.
Hugh Bancroft was usually
waiting for us, sitting, legs
crossed, at the piano, impatiently
tapping the feather-duster against
his heel. The feather-duster was
a disciplinary instrument, fre-
quently wielded ; once, when we
messed-up an afternoon Even-
song, every boy (and there were
26 of us) heard the summons to
“bend over.’’ Two cuts each.
Any disciplinary dissertation
must include Mr. K., a former
poetry-master at St. Andrew’s,
who favored a ping-pong bat!
We used to kid “the boss”
about his feather-duster: why
wouldn’t he punish us with the
fluffy end? Once, the feather-
duster mysteriously disappeared.
To compensate, . “the boss”
wielded a dilapidated sandshoe.
It hurt more than the duster. So,
miraculously, the duster reap-
peared ; and “the boss” himself
arriving 15 minutes late for
choir-practice one Sunday morn-
ing the heftiest of our fellows
demanded the right to cane him.
It was unheard-of, but . . . “the
boss” straightened-up, a bit red
in the face, after three of the
heartiest whacks ever heard in
those sacred precincts.
Some afternoons H.H. would
be in jovial mood, telling
stories in his mingled English-
Canadian drawl while the book-
bovs circulated around the room
distributing sheet-music. The
seats were arranged so that there
were two “sides,” each facing
the other, as in the Cathedral.
We sang thro.tigh the entire
practice on our feet, reading the
music from music-racks mounted
on legs of two-inch piping.
When all the music had been
given-out we were told to stand
and sing scales, concentrating on
pure, even tone and clear
articulation. Scales occupied a
full quarter-hour; “the boss”
started us on a low note, and
took us up a semitone with
every fresh scale, until we got
to a note our voices were unable
to manage. He had a novel way
of teaching us to sing the
vowel-sound “e,” as in “green”:
the little-finger was placed
between the teeth, withdrawn,
and the note then sung. Result
was a crystal-clear, “open” sort
of sound.
One of these scales I remember
particularly. For every note we
had to sing “ma-may-mee-mo-
moo.” We used to heavily
accent the last vowel-sound —to
hear “the boss” say, “Come on,
you’re not a bunch of cows!”
Scales finished, we turned to
chantbook and psalter for the
psalm. When we’d found the
chant there would be a moment
of dead silence. Then the
Canadian drawl: “Mills, what
key is the chant in?” Mills,
aged 10, in a wild guess, would
eventually stammer, “D Minor.”
The feather-duster elevated
and pointed to the boy alongside:
“Hobbs?”
“Ah—F Major, sir.”
“Clark?”
Usually the whole row suffered
this inquisition in turn, until the
head-boy or someone who knew
his key-signatures came good.
On the whole “the boss”
shunned piano-accompaniment
during practice. He would
stand and conduct, using voice,
feet and fists in fairly equal pro-
portion. Not infrequently he
returned to the piano and bashed
a single note.
“You’re ft-a-a-at!”, he would
roar, adding, “Brutes!”
He was particularly careful
about pronunciation. In a build-
ing the size of the Cathedral, he
emphasised, one had to pro-
nounce every word perfectly.
Uniformity of cut-off was
essential; he abhorred an effect
like “heart-t-t-t,” each “t” coming
from a different member of the
choir.
Afternoon choir - practice
lasted from 2.30 till 3.20, when
we would file over to the
Cathedral vestry, don robes and
proceed into the Cathedral for
half-an-hour’s Evensong.
Very few came to hear Even-
song. There were sometimes one
or two: for a time we had a
“regular,” a distinguished-
looking gent, with a beard, who
reminded me of George V. He
always sat in the fourth row,
right at the end of the pew, and
listened intently the whole time.
But one day he wasn’t there,
and soon we realised that even he
had stopped coming.
Quite frequently we sang to
an empty Cathedral. One after-
noon “the boss” announced at
choir-practice that the English
church - musician Dr. Eric
Thiman would be present at
Evensong, and as a surprise we
were to do one of his (Thiman’s)
anthems. Sure enough, he
turned up; # and he liked our
singing.
We had to be careful not to
talk or pull faces at each other
during services; although “the
boss” was stranded down the
middle of the church in the
organ-loft, there was an in-
genious mirror, set on an
adjoining stone pillar, by which
the organist, slightly turning his
head, could see every boy and
what was going on. Evensong
finished at 4 p.m., and if we
hadn’t mucked-up the singing
we were free to go home.
Monday was our day-off. This
granting of a day-off isn’t con-
fined to Sydney ; Australian Sir
William McKie, who’s in charge
of musical matters at West-
minster Abbey, writes of the
choristers there: “The boys have
an hour’s practice on their own
every day except Wednesday,
when they have a complete holi-
day from all choir-work, and
the afternoon service is sung
by the men only.”
In my day Thursday was the
only day when the full choir met
for practice. We (the boys) had
our usual practice from 2.30 till
3.30, and were then set free till
5.30, when there was full choral
Evensong.
So on Thursdays, as soon as
afternoon practice was over, the
majority of thoristers headed
downtown to one of the news-
reels. Arriving back at the last
minute, we would fling-on robes
and join the rest of the choir to
sing Evensong. Then, over to
the practice-room; temporarily
converted into a dining-room.
Four trestle-tables accom-
modated all 1 the choir. Food:
in summer, salads ; other seasons,
a variety, mostly hot.
At 6.30 evening practice would
begin. The gentlemen, perhaps
a dozen or 14 of them all told,
sat behind the boys. “The boss”
was almost as forthright with the
men as he was with us. I
remember on one occasion a
bass bellowing several wrong
notes. There was a discordant,
fortissimo crash from the piano.
“Some of you gentlemen,”
came the measured Canadian
drawl, “seem to have slooggish
livers.”
At another choir-practice he
repeated this remark, and as he
did so glanced at a newly-joined
medico member. “I fancy you
have a cure for thaat complaint,
Doctor?”
These Thursday-evening prac-
tices were the nuclei of our
subsequent Sunday-singing. We
usually got through a terrific
amount of work. It was a
standard rule to practise music
a fortnight in advance; that is,
on a given Thursday we practised
anthems for the following Sun-
day and the Sunday after that.
“The boss” had a passion for
Bach chorales and for English
Tudor music—Byrd, Tye, Tallis,
Gibbons and the rest. We did a
lot of our anthem-work from
£he fOhurch Anthem Book, an
Oxford publication of 100
anthems edited by Sir Walford
Davies and Henry G. Ley. I
served for a time as bookboy,
and 24 anthem-books, piled one
on top of the other in one’s out-
stretched arms, made quite a
load. During my stay in the
choir we sang close on 50 of the
book’s 100 anthems.
Often the ladies Washing-up
choir-tea dishes in the adjacent
kitchen caused “the boss” to stop
the practice and mutter things
to himself. Then one day he
disappeared into the kitchen,
and presently Returned, face
flushed. But there was remark-
ably little kitchen-noise thence
onwards.
Another source of perpetual
annoyance was the Town Hall
clock, visible through the prac-
tice-room windows. As the hand
edged nearer the eight-o’clock
mark a suppressed feeling of
excitement gripped us. Two
minutes ... a minute . . . Then
—Bong ... Bong . . . Bong.
The sound floated out loudly
and with resonance, while we
held our breath and wondered
what would happen. Most times
“the boss” would rest his elbows
on the piano-keys and blow
cigarette - smoke ceilingwards.
Once the clock chimed while he
was explaining a particularly
tricky section in a new anthem.
What he said would have been
rejected by an underworld news-
paper-editor.
The culmination of a week’s
practice was the morning and
evening services in the Cathedral.
Here we translated hours of hard
work into music. Hugh Ban-
croft, coat off, tie discarded,
shirtsleeves rolled-up, sat in the
organ-loft at the console of the
Whiteley. On one occasion the
organ stopped in its tracks in
the middle of a hymn just
refused to go. The congregation
was then treated to the unpre-
cedented sight of an angry, coat-
less organist hurtling down the
metal spiral-staircase and racing
along the Cathedral to the
harmonium.
In three years I saw “the boss”
really upset only once. That was
when the Archbishop of Canter-
bury* Dr. Geoffrey Fisher, was
here. At Dr. Fisher’s last
service prior to leaving for Eng-
land we had to sing a special bit
of music—a piece by Vaughan-
Williams, if I retpember
correctly. We made a hash of it.
“The boss” was too upset even
to cane us.
It was fairly customary for a
boy to poke his head around the
schoolroom-door and sing out,
“Twelve boys for a funeral.”
Maths.-books were discarded,
and twelve of us would tear off
for a special practice before sing-
ing at the funeral.
One of the most notable of
these funerals was that of W. M.
(“Billy”) Hughes in 1952. On
that Friday morning in October
masses of flowers began to arrive
at the Cathedral. Thick and fast
they came, and soon got beyond
the control of the verger and his
assistant. So choirboys dropped
schoolbooks and hurried over to
help arrange flowers in the
Cathedral grounds.
The funeral itself Was quite
splendid: row upon row of
shiny black cars drew up to
the front entrance and disgorged
gloved and top-hatted politicians
and various big civic names.
Then there were the weddings
on Saturdays. On Friday after-
noon at choir-practice “the boss”
would say, ‘1 want twelve boys
for a wedding tomorrow,” and
proceed to pick the lucky ones —
lucky, because each would get
3s. 6d. One Saturday there were
three weddings in a row and we
went home wealthy.
It is the fate of every chorister
that at some time or other his
voice will “break,” get deeper in
quality and consequently be use-
less in the soprailo field. This,
as is generally the case, hap-
pened when I was 15 and leading
the choir. Subsequently 1 sang
in a variety of church choirs as
tenor and Came in contact with
a number of choirmasters. None
had the personality or thorough-
ness of Hugh Bancroft, “the
boss.”
But I must say my chief regret
on quitting St. Andrew’s Choir
was leaving my initials only half-
carved in the choir-stalls!
Conductor Personality
Artist at Work
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
SOME years ago,*by having
got into conversation
with a stranger in a
Sydney hotel dining-room
who turned out to be a horn-
player in the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, I was invited to hear
a rehearsal of the orchestra.
The rehearsal was held, rather
to my surprise, on the top-floor
of a chain-store building in
King's Cross ; over the heads of
a milling crowd of heedless
bargain-hunters.
It proved a fascinating ex-
perience ; but few of nay
acquaintances who take an
interest in orchestral music
would agree that listening to
rehearsals should be a part of
the devotee’s experience. I have
been condemned by purists, who
have claimed that anything less
than the final perfected per-
formance of a work would be
intolerable.
Now, however, I am supported
by the issue on two Coronet long-
playing records of the rehearsal
and final performance of
Mozart’s Symphony No. 36, the
‘"Linz,” conducted by Bruno
Walter.
This may not be everybody's
set; an immediate objection is
that you get only one Mozart
symphony for the normal price
of four. On the other hand,
enthusiasts will get a rare insight
into the infinite pains that go
into producing a work of art;
an experience which is very well*
worth while, not only for the
music-lover, but for a writer, or
an artist in any medium.
They get something else, too
—an understanding of a notable
character, who must be counted
with the men of genius among
interpretive musicians.
Bruno Walter is now, I
believe, over eighty. His photo-
graphs on the record-container
show him white-headed, with
aged, rugged features, but with
a sensitive expression, particu-
larly about the eyes. Largely
responsible for the tremendous
reputation of Vienna opera and
orchestral music between the
two world wars, he had not long
taken over the direction of
Berlin opera when Hitler made
conditions impossible for a man
of his outlook.
The recording is made in his
adopted country, U.S.A., where
he has the handicap of speaking
in a language not his own, yet
which he uses to good advantage,
making arresting directions and
(<Continued on page 30)


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER S SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.184.12
OIL SEARCH
LIMITED
line, in Papual
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS
NEW SHARE ISSUE
OF 2,750,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 5/- EACH
AT PAR IN THE PROPORTION OF 1 FOR 4
In order to meet the Company’s proportion of
expenditure incurred by Australian Petroleum Co.
Pty. Ltd. and Island Exploration Co. Pty. Ltd., in
the forward drilling and prospecting programmes in
Papua adopted by those companies, Oil Search
Limited will require further capital.
The Directors have resolved, therefore, to issue at par
2,750,000 ordinary shares of 5/- each which will be
offered to the members of the Company whose names
are on the Company’s Register of Members on Ist
November, 1956, in the proportion of one new share
for every four shares registered in their names on that
date and whose applications for shares are received not
later than 31st January, 1957. Fractions will, be
disregarded.
A circular, together with entitlement advice and
application forms, will be forwarded to all shareholders
on or about 22nd November, 1956.
The shares will be offered on the following terms,
viz., 1/- per share on application and two calls each
of 2/- per share. It is expected that such calls will be
made to fall due respectively in April, 1957, and June,
1957.
The Share and Transfer Register of the
Company will be closed from Ist November,
1956, to 7th November, 1956, both days
inclusive, in order to determine rights to shares.
National Mutual Building,
350 George Street, Sydney,
3rd October, 1956.
By Order of the Board,
Noel Walker,
Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The big racing scene of the
spring has now shifted to Mel-
bourne. Caulfield’s Cup meet-
ing will open next Saturday,
with main attractions the
Guineas (one mile) and the
£3OOO Toorak Handicap (also
one mile), in which a number of
Cup candidates will compete.
The £l5OO Herbert Power
Handicap mile) will also
include a sprinkling of Cup
horses. '
Sydney stables will provide
strong opposition to the Mel-
bourne-trained three-year-olds in
the Guineas, with A.J.C. Derby
placegetters Monte Carlo, Bern-
field and Harnham Hill possibly
in the line-up. All three will
later run in the £7OOO V.R.C.
Derby (November 3). Monte
Carlo impressively won the
Randwick classic, and he might
add the Guineas to his winning-
fidly. Melbourne’s chief danger
should be Arab’s Choice. Sydney
rider J. Thompson, yet to win
the Guineas, has his big chance
next Saturday on Monte Carlo.
Last spring he had the mount
on the favorite, Star Realm, but
that three-year-old failed to see
the mile out.
The Toorak Handicap last
year was no guide to the Caul-
field Cup, but in earlier seasons
some winners of the mile showed
out well in the Cup, horses to
win both events over the past 20
years being The Trump (1937),
Royal Gem (1946) and Grey
Boots (1950).
Mrs. A. B. Bradley, owner of
Redcraze, is looking forward to
the Melbourne Cup with confi-
dence. She has sound reason
for that, too: her well-performed
stayer capped recent winning
efforts with an easy amble to
victory in, the A.J.C.’s 91st
Metropolitan Handicap (worth
£5229). Redcraze is now among
the top money-winning horses.
He carried 9.8 in the Metrop.,
came from the rear of the' field at
the home-turn, and easily
defeated Evening Peal and Dal-
star. Jockey A. Ward was
easing him up at the winning-
line. The gelding (also winner
of the Brisbane Cup, two miles,
with 9st. in mid-winter) is a
six-year-old by Red Mars (imp.)
from Myarion by Myosotis
(imp.). He has been penalised
41b. (to 9.11) in the Melbourne
Cup.
A.J.C. committeeman T.
Baillieu won the Reginald Allen
Handicap on Metropolitan
Handicap day with Troy, a three-
year-old colt by Achilles; the
sire won the Epsom for Baillieu
six years ago.
Melbourne racegoers will
soon see a brilliant two-year-old
filly in action—Sydney’s Concert
Star, runaway winner of the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes. The
filly was bred and is raced by
A. O. Ellison, owner of Baramul
stud, Kerrabee (N.S.W.). She
defeated Court Slipper and
Estrina at first race-start, vindi-
cating the judgment of her
breeder in deciding to retain her
for racing rather than send her
to the auction-ring with other
Baramul yearlings. Concert Star
is by Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Huarette by Hua. Huarette won
three races as a two-year-old.
Eighteen years ago E. A.
Haley, Sydney owner and
breeder of thoroughbreds, won
the A.J.C. Epsom with King’s
Head. Last Saturday at Rand-
wick Tulloch carried his colors
to victory in the A.J.C. Canon-
bury Stakes for two-year-old
colts and geldings. Second to
Flying Kurana in the Breeders’
Plate, Tulloch had shown an
excellent turn of speed in the
two-year-old trials held under
racing conditions. Bred in New
Zealand, a first foal, he is by the
Big Game sire Khorassan (imp.),
from Florida (winner of four
races in New Zealand, including
the Avondale Cup), by Salma-
gundi (imp.) from Island Linnet
by Song Bird. Tulloch is due
to tackle the Melbourne
youngsters in the Maribyrnong
Plate.
Two-year-old filly fcstrina has
had two starts for a third in the
Gimcrack and a win in the
Widden Stakes, in which she gave
the more speedy, but also much
smaller, Court Slipper a long start
and a beating—the Newtown
Wonder (imp.) youngster doesn’t
look more than 14.2 in height.
Estrina, bred by J. R. Payten at
Alfalfa, Canowindra (N.S.W.),
is by Channel Swell (imp.) from
Revenir (a two-year-old winner
at Randwick), by MacArthur,
and tracing back to Positano
(imp.). Estrina’s family includes
three early Melbourne Cup
winners, Lord Cardigan, Lord
Nolan and Rainbird.
Sydney stayer Caranna gained
many friends for the Cups when
he led his three opponents in the
Craven Plate a merry dance and
easily defeated Advocate and
Prince Delville, with Dalstar
fourth. Caranna has 8.12 in
each of the Cups and seems
bound to make it interesting. His
wins include the A.J.C. Derby.
“And now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the
ex-champion right here at the microphone."
and the Q.T.C. St. Leger, while
he followed Redcraze home in
the Brisbane Cup.
Melbourne punters were right
on the mark when Victoria’s first
two-year-old events of the
season were staged at Flemington
on Saturday: in each of the
three races the favorite was suc-
cessful. Etiwanda won the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes for
fillies at 10 to 9; Two Crowns
the First Maribyrnong Trial for
colts and geldings, also at
10 to 9; and Wool Man
the Second Division at 5 to 4 on.
All three strolled in with lengths
to spare. Etiwanda was bred at
Kia-Ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
Two Crowns was foaled at
Brooklands stud, Bald Hills
(Vic.), and Wool Man was reared
at Te Parae stud (N.Z.).
Pushover came right irfto the
Melbourne Cup picture when she
defeated odds-on Ark Royal in
the w.-f.-a. Turnbull Stakes (li
mile) at Flemington. Pushover
is the best staying mare in Aus-
tralia. Her successes include the
Adelaide Cup (two miles) and
the Australian Cup (2 miles 1|
furlong). She also finished
fourth in the last Sydney Cup.
She has 8.9 in the Melbourne
Cup.
New Zealand has several well-
performed horses in both Cups,
and another came into promin-
ence at Flemington when
Emphatic won the final event,
the Stand Handicap (13 fur-
longs). He also won at Caulfield
on September 27. Emphatic has
been handicapped to top form,
with 9.0 in the Caulfield Cup
and 8.13 in the Melbourne Cup.
As he carried 9.6 in the Stand
Handicap it was an excellent trial
for the Caulfield mile-and-a-half.
He is a six-year-old gelding by
Sabaean (imp.) from Prophetic.
* * *
With the opening night of the
Harold Park Spring Carnival
'delayed by rain until tonight
(Wednesday), trot-trainers who
gave their charges a final hit-out
at the Bankstown Sunday
gymkhana were able also to
acquaint themselves with trainer
Les Brown’s moving-start—an
invention that could revolu-
tionise the light-harness sport.
Brown, who met with his share
of success in the day-trot era
(Glen’s Machine was his best
meal-ticket), had a spill, and
while slave to plaster-of-Paris
he began to work on an idea he
had long entertained —one that
might solve the problem of
horses losing all chance in a race
at the barrier, without affecting
the handicap-stafts. And, being
a plumber, he had a walk-in
start when it came to piecing his
theory together.
Brown began with a scale-
model in his home ; it looked
and sounded good, but how would
the horses like it? Then to Harold
Park, but, failing headway, to
Bankstown, where he set-up
operations, experimenting. On
Sunday he sent away (probably
for the first time in the world)
a field of horses from scratch,
12 yards and 24 yards. The first
t j me two horses ducked
“F*® on ® ur UUI “ C! * ‘r 1 ".
at the tapes, the second time
same left as a body. He
ex P lains that his device is not a
flying-start, but one intended to
send a field awa Y cleanly. It is
a series of ta P es running on
rollers on each side of the track
controlled by a motor that will
move them slower than a horse
walking or faster than the fastest
P acer - On release, the tapes fly
away on sloping pipe-railing into
* a »ove the horses.
+ +
Port Adelaide, favorite all
through the season for the title,
beaten only once, won this year’s
Adelaide premiership, beating
West Adelaide in the grand-final
12.9-9.11. It was Port’s fifth
defeat of West in the year. Port
thus made S.A.N.F.L. history—it
was its third successive premier-
ship win, first time it’s been done
in triplicate since the League was
formed in 1907 West skipper
Brian Faehse, retiring after the
game, has played all told 222
games, a record for West and
exceeded by only one or two
other players in S.A.N.F.L.
history.
“Centre”: Ray Whittaker,
Port Adelaide utility player,
played in five premiership teams
this year. He successfully
coached Kybybolite in the
Kowree-Naracoorte League, was
in the combined League side
which won the district (South-
East) championship, and was in
the South-East team which won
the S.A. country carnival. Then
he returned to help Port firsts
and seconds take out the
pennants.
* * *
Apart from the Perth League
(Australian Rules) premiership,
which won’t be decided for a
week or two yet, Soccer is about
the only football-code still
battling on in Australia. (And,
of course, what with the
Soccer to be put on at the
Games, the round ball will be
getting booted about in these
parts for a time yet.) In Sydney
last Saturday, Corrimal, winner
of last year’s State premiership,
narrowly beat Wallsend 3-2 in
the premiership final, and now
meets Cessnock in the grand-
final this corning Saturday.
Last Sunday N.S.W. just
rhanaged to beat “A Continental
XL” 2-1, after having somewhat
luckily scraped-in 4-3 against the
New Australians in a similar
fixture the previous Sunday.
* * *
South African Open champion
Gary Player tied with Sydney
player Norm Berwick for first in
the Ampol £4OO golf-tournament
at Coffs Harbor. (N.S.W.). Both
had two-round totals of 136
(four under the card) to finish
three strokes in front of South
African Harold Henning. In the
play-off to decide the North
Coast Open championship,
played in conjunction with the
purse, Player won at the first
hole.
* * #
“K.R.”: Russell Mockridge,
who’s pretty well dominating
professional road-cycling, set a
new fastest-time in the 163-mile
Warrnambool-Melbourne road-
race. He clocked shr. 47min.
ssec.—l7min. 50sec. faster than
the previous best, the time
Eddie Smith took last year to
win off scratch. And “Mocka”
had trouble with his gears
throughout the race!


Saga of the Poddlewheel Men
The Browns
of the Rivers
By KEN BARRATT
A “RED PAGE” critic,
reviewing the reprint of
The Dreadnought of the
Darling, gently railed at
Dr. C. E. W. Bean, as “a Gentle-
man from the Flerald in 1911,”
for “never having dreamed of
reporting that the skippers of
the river-steamers swore.”
In his new preface Dr. Bean
reveals that the “dreadnought”
called in his book the Yanda
was in fact the S.S. Jandra, and
“the skipper and the skipper’s
mate, long since gone to their
rest, were Walter and Herbert
Brown.”
Those who knew the Browns
of the Rivers will agree that they
were not the hard-swearing kind.
They were, in fact, peculiarly
unlike the traditional picture of
the river-counterpart of the
“old salt.”
Many a River-man was noted
for his lurid vocabulary,
including one who later became
Premier of South Australia, but
not the Browns, a staunchly
Methodist family.
But the Browns of the Rivers
have other claims to remem-
brance. They* played their part
in pioneering the outback, and
also they have many links with
our Australian literature, often
anonymously or pseudony-
mously.
The finest generic description
of the Browns . . . wherever
they may have lived ... is
Thomas Hughes’s introductory
chapter to Tom Brown’s School-
days. When I first read it as a
child I was convinced that
Thomas Hughes must have had
my grandfather, John Humphris
Brown, as his model.. That was
not correct, but the description
is almost dazzling in its truth
to his type.
My grandfather was sent to a
school for the sons of Indian
officers. On leaving school he
came to Australia, seeking his
fortune on the goldfields, then
himself trying to establish a
school for young gentlemen.
Neither venture succeeded.
He married a Melbourne girl,
Elizabeth Francis, whose
Huguenot ancestors had carried
on the jeweller’s craft in
Coventry. He then turned to the
Rivers as the means of building
his fortune, making Echuca his
home-port.
At first he went into partner-
ship with a Captain Ritchie, but,
complaining that most of the
work was left to him, he broke
away from his partner and ran
his own boats.
Those boats served three
purposes. They carried pas-
sengers ; transported cargoes to
and from the stations ; and they
were travelling emporiums.
When they tied-up at a station
or river-port they were invaded
by the surrounding settlers,
shopping. Some of the boats
even carried dressmakers. %
John Brown’s fortunes
flourished, and the family had
their home at Hawthorn in Mel-
bourne. There were 13 children
in all, three of whom died in
childhood, and they all went to.
the best colleges. By the
eighties they were wealthy and
respected citizens of Melbourne
Town.
I have heard Hugh McCrae
describe the various families of
the period, including the Browns,
headed by father and mother,
supported by various spinster,
aunts and sisters, and followed
by the children in steps-and-
stairs, going off on a Sunday to
their respective churches, where
each family had its private pew.
John Brown certainly does
n<?t fit into the portrait of a
hard-swearing River captain.
Actually, although he was always
known ns Captain Brown, he
was never a captain. He was
merely the owner and trader:
his vessels included the paddle-
wheel steamers * Pioneer, Gol-
conda and Florence Annie, and
their barges, often bigger than
the ships themselves.
Far from being a hard-swear-
ing type, John Brown once
submitted to his good friend Dr.
Fitchett (author <sf Deeds that
Won. the Empire, headmaster of
the Methodist Ladies’ College,
and editor of a Melbourne
magazine) a little poem about
a party attended by a number
of insects, which ended with
the lines: “So, my friends, take
heed of my warning, and never
sing ‘We won’t go home till
morning.’ ” The good Doctor
suggested he submit it to an,
English magazine for young
Christians, and in due course
John Brown received a cheque
for ss.
Those closing lines to his
rhyme are typical of the man
himself. Once he had been
bailed-up and robbed by bush-
rangers, who were willing to set
him free provided he shared a
bottle of grog with them. He
refused on principle, and I am
sure that he would have con-
tinued to refuse had his life
depended on it.
He boasted that., warned by his
father’s downfall, he had never
allowed strong drink to touch
his lips. In his last years a
doctor suggested that a little
brandy might strengthen his
heart, and, told that nothing
would ever persuade him to
touch strong drink, suggested
that it should be placed in
peppermint-cordial.
Thereafter my grandfather
preached to all and sundry the
wonderful efficacy of pepper-
mint-cordial, a better tonic than
any strong drink ever distilled
by man, completely unaware
that his peppermint-cordial was
laced with brandy.
His wife, being of French
extraction, always enjoyed her
glass of wine but that was
different! Mother could do no
wrong. She was entitled to her
little glass of “tonic.”
In the droughts and floods and
strikes of the ’nineties, John
Flumphris Brown lost every-
thing, and retired from the
Rivers. They sold their Mel-
bourne home and settled in
Sydney, first at Hunter’s FTiU,
then at Bondi.
The great days of the Rivers
were over. There were no more
fortunes to be made from the
paddle-steamers, although his
two sons, Herbert and Walter,
continued in the Rivers-trade on
the Darling, with Bourke as their
home-port.
In the heyday of the River
Murray trade, many famous and
notable people; travelled on the
boats, including Governors.
The Florence Annie could,
and did, carry 400 passengers.
The biggest that ever travelled
as far north as Bourke, she was
a 120-ton boat, 100 ft. long and
25ft. wide, with the paddles
adding another 20ft. to her
width.
But in spite of the size of
these boats, the Brown family
never made the boats their
home. My grand-
mother, leaving a
maiden aunt to watch
over the children, would
travel v?ith her husband,
taking one of her
daughters as com-
panion. She would be,
the ship’s hostess.
My mother, Nellie
Brown, who died only
last year, would recall
among those notable
passengers* a young
Cana d i a n journalist
from the “Sydney
Morning Herald” —
Gilbert Parker, later to
become a novelist of
considerable fame, a
baronet, and a member of the
House of Commons.
Parker’s journey down the
Rivers was duly reported in the
“Herald,” and later incorporated
in a book, Around the Compass
in A ustralia. The invitation to
my mother to attend his wedding
in New York was regretfully
declined, but proudly pasted in
her scrapbook.
My mother would also recall,
as another passenger, one of
Charles Dickens’s sons, who, on
his first morning aboard,
approached her saying, “Miss
Nellie, could you help me? I
have to clean my own boots.
Now, do I brush them first, then
put the polish on them, or vice-
versa?” which my mother con-
sidered a strange piece of
snobbery from one whose father
never hid the fact that he had
once been a poor boy in a
blacking-factory.
As a girl my mother received
as a present from her brother
Herbert the horse owned by
Kate Kelly, which my uncle had
bought at an auction following
the breaking-up of the Kelly
gang. If my memory is right,
the horse was a handsome white
mare called Bess.
Walter and Herbert Brown,
who continued ih the River-trade
on the Darling, eventually bought
the S.S. Nile, last of the Darling
Dreadnoughts. It was tied up
at Bourke, 'waiting for the river
that never came down, when
it was burnt to the water's edge.
The picture Dr. Bean paints of
them is substantially true, even
though Herbert has written a few
pithy contradictions, in the
margin of his presentation copy.
When Dr. Bean remarks to the
effect that to the skipper’s mate
(Herbert), the Rivers were his
whole life, Herbert annotated,
“He likes the Rivers like the
devil likes holy water.”
Where Dr. Bean comments
that the skipper’s mate was
snatching a quiet nap “as usual,”
Herbert writes, “Lies, All Lies” ;
but I’m afraid that comment is
slightly exaggerated. The
Browns, as I knew them, were
never people to kill themselves
with overwork.
It was from Herbert Brown
that Will Lawson obtained
much of his material for his
novel Old Man Murray; he
acknowledged the debt in his
introduction. My own experience
in trying to extract stories of
the Rivers from my Uncle
Herbert was that you could
never tell when he was telling the
strict truth or exercising a bush-
man’s propensities to legpull.
Of the 10 Browns who sur-
vived into adulthood, I have
mentioned Herbert and Walter
and Nellie. One girl, Florence,
DREADNOUGHT OF THE DARLING
died in early womanhood, and
another, Alice, is now a frail little
lady in a nursing-home.
Of the girls, that leaves Annie
and Emily. My mother, Nellie,
married an Englishman, Annie
married an Irishman, and Emily
a Scotsman. Annie’s son was the
only member of the third genera-
tion of the Browns to travel the
Rivers, signing-on in the Nile as
an extra hand during his school-
holidays.
Emily’s husband was Hugh
Cameron, whose sister, Mary
Cameron, is not unknown
in the world of letters. She is,
of course, today Dame Mary
Gilmore.
Earlier, Emily had been
courted by a half-forgotten
chronicler of the convict days,
Arthur J. Vogan,. whom the
family always referred to as
Emily’s “Vogey man.” He had
a habit, I believe, of staying with
the family at their Hunter's Hill
home and booking-up magazines
and papers on their account at
the local newsagent, which did
not endear htm to the res, of
the tamity.
Among those who frequently
stayed at the home at Hunter’s
Hill was a young artist, George
Lambeit, and a young medical
student, Robert Lee Brown, w bo
had been halt-adopted into the
family when he arrived at their
home under the mistaken 1m-
pression that my grandfather was
a long-lost uncle.
I remember visiting hitn during
the First World War with my
mother.. After examining my
chest and announcing that there
was nothing wrong, he asked
my mother had she read the
newly-published book 7 he Senti-
mental Bloke. Thereupon he
commenced to read it to us in
a rich, musical voice . . . and
became so engrossed that his
patients outside were left waiting
f° r ° ver an hour, in spite of
my mother’s protests on their
behalf.
Eldest of the Brown boys was
Arthur, a mechanical genius
who had also inherited a family
interest in natural science. My
grandmother’s cousin J. J. Ward
was one of the pioneers of
photography applied to the
study of nature. Many reference-
works, including Arthur Mee’s
Children’s Encyclopaedia, are
still, illustrated with his photo-
graphs of natural-life.
Arthur Brown founded the
Dalton Nursery at Dubbo
(N.S.W.), installed mysterious
pumps, and pipes perforated with
holes, which sprayed rain on
precious plants, from which the
drought-stricken gardens of the
N.S.W. West were replanted
from time to time.
The other two Brown brothers,
Francis Humphris and William
Horace, both rate entries in the
Bibliography of Australian
Entomology. Frank Brown s
collection of butterflies is in the
Australian Museum (Sydney),
having been purchased on his
death by Professor Waterhouse
for presentation to the Museum,
Frank contributed to an
entomological journal an essay
on the life-cycle of a hitherto
unrecorded butterfly which he
had observed m the bush of
Bellevue Hill (Sydney), which
isn’t very bushy now!
Horace Brown the Biblw-
grnphy states, collected coleop-
tera m every Australian State
except Tasmania and had one
of the finest coleoptera col ec i ns
the Commonwealth. Many
his captures have been name
by Lea, Carter and h oan .
Cnmndnim browm (Sloa e,
1916); Cyphagastra br ™™
garter, L 192 />
W-m (Lea l 9 6) se t
H * the last of
Browjn bi(Others to •
«he BMo g japl^
Hnmnhris (Frank) Brown is
** d P the author of Songs of
IS * DU Ked bv the Mac-
Q eorge pj ne y
In his BuLEEXIN ar ticle “Verse
th Australian Frontier” a
mQnth Qf §o back> Henry w
Wel j s tbe American critic, who
shows a far keener sense G f pro-
portion than many of our local
critics, referred to Fr&ncis
Brown ’s ballad in
Ballads as one c f “at least a
dozen p oems 0 f great tragic
£ orce ” That ballad is “The
p r j de 0 £ McTague,” which Wells
sa j d “ reV eals the classical image
Q £ p roud man overestimating his
s t ren gth;”
Francis Humphris Brown’s
S £ ory was itself a tragic one. He
was ordy radical in a family
bas i caß y conservative. The
y OUnges t ? brought up when the
family fortunes had failed, he
plunged into political con-
troversy during the early First
\y ar years, took part in the great
transport strike, and found him-
seif without a job, and jilted by
the g i r ) be loved. He suffered
a breakdown, and on his
recovery went to Bourke to live
w jth b js two brothers,
He became a bush balladist,
a nd having a flair for reciting he
recited 'his verse around camp-
fires an d j n shearing-sheds. His
i on g ballad “Gundabooka’s
Cup” was published as a booklet
j n Bourke, and other pieces were
printed as broadsheets, and a
f ew i n The Bulletin and in
“Aussie.” The citizens of Bourke
( as described in Frank Clune’s
o*l vage 29)


There are no
BITTER CIILIHUS!
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are renowned, not only for
their beauty of design, but because they are truly
permanent and trouble free. Decide now on INEX-
PENSIVE Wunderlich Metal Ceilings—Ceilings that
• LAST A LIFETIME ® SELDOM NEED REPAINTING
• DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK # NEED NO REPAIRS
Ideal also for covering over faulty or dilapidated
ceilings in old homes.
Ask your local hardware merchant, • 'phone MX 2411 or
write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept. M, Box 474, &.P.0.,
Sydney, tor prices and illustrated catalogue.
modern
METAL CEILINGS
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNIST PENETRATION
nrWO lines of wishful-thought
common enough in Aus-
tralia regarding the Communist
party are that its size renders
it comparatively ineffectual and
that, being based on a “political
philosophy,” it has as much
right to existence as any other
political party.
Dealing with both those
notions, W. J. Brown, in a
London “Time and Tide” article,
avers that, far from being “just
another party,” the Communist
party is a “quasi-military con-
spiracy for the overthrow of
society as we know it and for
the installation of a Communist
dictatorship which—as in every
Communist country, Stalin or
no Stalin —governs by force,
fraud and murder”;
“This conspiracy is com-
pletely amoral: it suffers none
of the restraints of religion or
even ordinary morality ; its
members are trained to believe
that whatever suits the interests
of the party, however contrary
to ordinary law and social
morality, is right.
“All, kinds of institutions figure
in the list, and the Communists
overlook none of them. You
will find them active in the co-
operative societies ; in parents’
associations ; in tenants’ defence-
leagues and a host more. But
their principal objective is the
penetration and capture of the
trade-unions.
“Control of the trade-unions
would give them a lever whereby
to impel millions into action
destructive to the fabric of
society. They know, none
better, that a Communist as
president or secretary of this,
that or the other big trade-union
is vastly more important from
the point of view of disrupting
a nation than the presence of
dozens of Communists as
members of Parliament or as
members of local councils.”
Turning to the effectiveness of
the Communist organisation in
contrast to its size, Brown
points out that its technique,
“quite different from that of
ordinary political parties,” is
aimed at the capture of key-
positions in “the organs of
existing society,” and in this
“technique” Brown describes
himself as “an authority”:
“My life has been spent in
trade-union leadership. In early
manhood I founded, and over
the years built-up to a strength
of approaching 150,000, the
Civil Service Clerical Associa-
tion. Less than I per cent, of
the members of that large and
important organisation were
Communists, and I doubt if the
proportion is much greater now.,
But at one time the Communists
controlled 18 out of the‘2s seats
on the executive-committee and
dominated its policy.
“How could such a situation
come about? How is it
that Communists control
the Amalgamated Engineering
Union? Or the Electrical Trades
Union? How do they come to
possess such influence, even
when it, falls short of lull con-
trol, in the Miners’ Union and
others as strategically import-
ant? Perhaps a description of
what happened in the C.S.C.A.
will help to provide the answer.
“The constitution of the
C.S.C.A., like that of most
trade-unions, was democratic.
Each branch elected its own
branch-committee and officers
and its delegate or delegates to
the annual conference. The
annual conference elected the
national executive; and the
national executive appointed
officers and staff. Nothing could
be more' democratic ; but the
truth has to be faced that a
democratic constitution facili-
tates the penetration and cap-
ture of a union, unless the
union-members are permanently
on their guard.
“In the C.S.C.A. each branch
had an annual general meeting,
when it would elect the branch-
committee, the delegate or dele-
gates to the annual conference
and the branch-officers, such as
chairman, secretary, finance-
officer and so on. Now, suppose
a branch of 2000 members and
an annual meeting thereof. Of
those no more than 50 would
be Communists, but every one
of them would be present out of
a total attendance of, say, 150.
And they would stay to the end.
What is more, they would pro-
tract the end until they consti-
tuted a majority of those
remaining.
“A carefully worked-out
technique was practised to this
end. Most of those attending
wanted to get home with as little
delay as possible. One man had
promised to take his wife to the
pictures ; another wanted to get
on with his gardening ;* another
had a date with his children, and
so forth.
“The Communists had no
such dates. They would size-up
the meeting and, if they found
they were in a minority, they
would raise questions of
accuracy on the minutes of the
previous meeting, criticise the
outgoing committee, contrive a
row with the chairman or the
finance-officer anything to
spin-out the proceedings'till'the
members drifted off to their
various dates to a degree which
left the 50 Communists in a
majority when the really import-
ant business of electing a branch-
committee, branch-officers and,
above all, delegates to the annual
conference came to be decided;
“As a result of these tactics
the Communists would, with a
membership of only 1 per cent,
or so, find themselves, when the
annual conference came along,
controlling, say, one-third Of the
total number of delegates. At
the annual conference-election
for the national executive the
Communists practised another
technique; it is called ‘plump-
ing.’
“For the 25 seats on the
national executive there might
be 60 or 70 candidates. The
Communists would set them-
selves a given objective—say, the
capture of 10 seats. They would
have a prepared list of 10
nominees and the Communist
delegates would vote for no
other. Non-Communist dele-
gates would spread their vote
over all the nominees, including
the Communists, for many were
unknown to be Communists. The
Communists would achieve their
objective.
“The 1 per cent, of the
membership who were Com-
munists was now reflected on
the national executive by nearly
half the seats upon it. Almost
the first job of the newly-elected
national executive was to com-
pose the general-purposes com-
mittee, the finance-and-organisa-
tion committee, the journal-
committee and suchlike bodies,
which did the week-to-week
work of the organisation. In
this election the Communists
would again practise ‘plumping,’
while the majority of the execu-
tive voted on what they thought
was the merit of individual
candidates.
“Again, a minority of the
national executive could secure
majority representation on all
the important sub-committees of
the association. Communists, an
apparently negligible fraction at
the periphery, could now exer-
cise majority-control at the
centre. The tiny tail could wag
the huge dog.
“On the national executive the
Communist purpose was always
to divide their opponents. They
forced issues on which they
might hope to get some of the
majority voting with them ; they
made offers of electoral support
at subsequent annual confer-
ences to those of the majority
who could be induced to follow
their line; above all, they
packed the appointments-
committee and thereafter no
candidate for employment as
officer or member of the staff
stood much chance of getting a
job unless he or she was either
a Communist or was prepared
to give assurances that the
partly-]ine would be''followed.”
In a concluding summary of
the effectiveness of this tech-
nique, Brown adds that “in the
eight years after I relinquished,
the general-secretaryship, on my
election to Parliament in 1942,
and assumed the Parliamentary-
secretaryship, pretty well all
appointments to office were con-
trolled by the Communists, and
at the end of this period 18 out
of the 25 national-executive
members were either Com-
munists or fellow-travellers. The
tone of the union journal had
become well-and-truly slanted
in a Communist direction, and
so had the teaching in the week-
end schools of the association.
“We have now reached a stage
in Britain where Communist-
dominated or Communist-
influenced unions could shut-
down the press of the country,
silence the radio and TV and
paralyse industry by cutting-off
its vital electrical- and coal--
supplies. In none of these unions
are the Communists more than
a small minority ; but a small
minority purposefully directed
—London “Time and Tide”
“SIMMER IT GENTLY ”
under an almost military disci-
pline can go through an
unorganised, indifferent, care-
less majority like a knife through
melted butter.”
Suez and the Arabs
Commenting on British
Socialist assertions “as to the
calamities that will befall us
[Britain] if we do more than
merely ask the United Nations to
express disapproval of Colonel
Nasser’s seizure of the Suez
Canal,” . Major-General Sir
Edward Spears writes in a letter
to London “Daily Telegraph”
that “there is one I can flatly
contradict”:
“It is just not true that the
countries of the Middle East
will rise against us in their wrath
if we insist on compelling
Nasser to observe the inter-
national status of the canal.
“All over the world strong
Governments are respected, and
this is truer of the Middle East
than elsewhere. What is certain
is that if the Arab countries see
that we are incapable of defend-
ing our vital interests they' will
conclude that they would be
foo]s indeed to look to us to
help to safeguard their own.
“Furthermore, they will write-
off the British Empire as a
moribund concern, and in that
event there is no need to be a
prophet to state that we shall
lose Middle East oil.
“No wonder that our friends
in the Middle East, and they are
many, are in despair. They see
that, having proclaimed Russia
to be a danger to the north of
them, we have now invited her
to establish herself to the south,
on the canal, thus encircling
them.
“I was an M.P. at the time of
Munich,” General Spears adds,
“and was an anti-appeaser. When
the Socialists proclaim that
Nasser and Hitler have nothing
in common, I assert that this is
a falsehood and can be proved
to be. The lamentable story of
the Sudetens in Czechoslovakia
is being re-enacted at this
moment. •
“Russia is helping the poor
oppressed Egyptians as Hitler
helped the Sudetens, to the
cheers of the same type of person
who then found excuses for our
arch-enemy, as their counter-
parts do today.
“But not even at the time of
Munich did the House of
Commons present the lamentable
spectacle it does now. The
Opposition, by their conduct,
have managed to give the im-
pression that that once-great
Assembly is like a venerable
lady, once looked up to by all
for her dignity and wisdom, but
now in her dotage behaving in
a way that shocks all who knew
her in the past. Screams, yells
and ill-mannered interruptions
have taken the place of courteous
if forceful argument. Those
who are short of wit can always
make a noise.
“The Socialist party has not
only degraded the status of the
House of Commons but failed
in its duty to the country by not
explaining the consequences of
the policy its members advocate.
They advocate recourse to the
United Nations as the only
method of dealing with the Suez
crisis ; although the [U.N.]
Assembly cannot take a decision
and the Security Council is
paralysed by the Russian veto.
“They speak of the World
Court without mentioning that
a judgment made in our
[Britain’s] favor against Albania
has never been honored. The
Court at The Hague is as help-
less as every other organ of the
United Nations. If anyone
questions this, he has the
evidence of daily reports of the
murders on the Israel-Arab
frontier under the noses of the
United Nations representatives.
“What the Socialists fail to
tell their followers is that the
United Nations is a fine ideal,
but that it will certainly collapse
if too much is placed upon it
at this time. It must grow. Time
must be given it.”


The nature
of a husband
How can you make his home-
coming a daily joy? How much
should you know about his job
so you can help him succeed?
Why may his needs for physical
lovg differ from yours?
In October Header's Higest, a
father tries to explain to his
daughter the peculiar masculine
qualities she’ll encounter in the
man who is her husband.
Then there’s “The wisdom of
meditation”; “Help your child
to wonder”; “Women’s secret
language”; “Mystery and misery
of the backache” —a wealth of
absorbing articles condensed
from leading magazines and
current books. Wonderful read-
ln £ value at only 2/-,„ at all
newsagents and bookstalls. Get
jour copy today.
Ss
II
m
I
MORE FOR YOUR MONEY IN STYLE . ..
More for your money
in wonderful road holdingi too
Magnificent styling isn’t the only thing that you’ll like about the new Holden.
For part of the pleasure you’ll get out of driving this glorious new car is the sure
and steady way it holds the road.
One reason, of course, for this beautiful handling is the new recirculating
ball-type steering. Effortless and precise . . . it’s a great boon both in traffic and on
the open road. Then there’s the new front suspension, new front stabiliser, and
the longer wheelbase of 105". You don’t have to drive far to sense the delightful
balance and sureness that these things give you on curves, in cross winds and
on corrugated roads.
Why not come in one of these sunny
spring days and drive a few miles in this
low-priced beauty. Then you’ll discover its
unseen charm —the built-in qualities that
make for safer, happier family motoring.
There are two ‘Air Chief' Car Radios specially
designed for the new Holden.
Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements.
HOLDEN*
Australia''s Own Car
LIST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
*Registered Mark
U 240
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
Roaming Round the Darling)
erected a memorial-stone over
his grave.
Such were the Browns of the
Rivers. They may not have used
such euphemisms as “jolly,” as
Dr. Bean suggests, yet they were
none of them the hard-swearing
type, even those who were River-
men.
They were, in fact, typical
Browns . . . that clan of
whom Thomas Hughes said
that “much has yet to be
written before the British nation
will be properly sensible of how
much of its greatness it owes to
the Browns. For centuries, in
their quiet, dogged, homespun
way, they have been subduing
the earth in most English
countries, and leaving their mark
in American forests and Aus-
tralian uplands.”
That and other descriptions in
Tom Brown’s Schooldays are as
true of many of the Browns clan
today as when first published by
Thomas Hughes, 100 years ago
next April.
It was certainly true of the
Browns of the Rivers.
Red China
British and American press-
comment on the Chinese Com-
munist Party’s first national con-
gress in 11 years—the last one
was in 1945: ‘
London “Daily Telegraph :
•■]n that time [since 1945] the
party has grown ninefold to a
membership of 10i-million, and
is now the largest Communist
party in the world. By a mixture
of terror and a genuine bettering
of material conditions it has
secured the obedience of the
Chinese people. Most recently
it has achieved the virtual
completion of agricultural col-
lectivisation and the nationalisa-
tion of industry.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“The congress has undoubtedly
been called for propaganda
reasons. Red China is busily
engaged in trying to win a seat
in the United Nations. It is
actively wooing other Asiatic
nations, seeking economic and
political support. Delegations of
Buddhists, Chinese businessmen,
Government officials and other
groups from near-by nations are
entertained and feted as
regularly in Peking as in
Moscow.
“No effort is spared to estab-
lish friendly relations in areas
where a pro-Western, democratic
policy may be changed to
neutralism, where neutralism
may eventually be infiltrated and
subsequently controlled by Com-
munists. The catch-phrases are
peace and opposition to
Colonialism.
“The principal purpose [of the
congress] will be to persuade
other Asiatic countries of China’s
high moral purposes and desire
for peace, despite its invasions of
Korea, Tibet and Burma and
its oppression of its own people.”
■* * *
“New York Times” : “In his
opening address Mao Tse-tung
repeatedly laid stress upon the
fact that Red China was truly
‘Marxist-Leninist.’ If there is to
be any deviation, it seems, it will
not be for lack of fervor in the
lip-service to' Marxism and
Leninism. *
“There was also the fervent
support of the Soviet Union,
especially in the role of great
teacher. Red China still has
much to learn, Mao explained,
and the place to learn it is at the
feet of Moscow. Although the
tone was relatively quiet, the
meaning was plain, Mao and his
party wish to keep themselves
firmly within the Soviet orbit and
certainly do not presume, at this
stage, to set themselves beyond
the pupil-teacher roles.
“This may be disappointing to
those who have been watching,
wishfully and wistfully, for the
appearance of a ‘Chinese Tito’
and thought that they saw the
possibility in the person of Mao.
There is as yet no indication
whatever that he wants to be a
Tito,’ even if the Soviet Union
were to permit him to become
one.”
* * *
London “Economist ” ; “On a
more mundane level the congress
w "s informed of the outlines of
China’s second Five-Year Plan.
By 1962 China expects to pro-
duce 70 per cent, of the equip-
ment needed for economic
construction, and to raise steel-
production to over 10|-million
tons. Average wages of workers
and peasants should by 1962
have risen by 25 to 30 per cent.
“Meanwhile, however, it seems
that the masses may have to
practise wage-restraint a little
longer ; they have recently been
warned that their jam is for
tomorrow, not for today.
“Some of China’s few surviv-
ing capitalists were prosecuted
not long ago for ‘offering high
wages in contravention of labor-
regulations,’ and an organ of the
Communist press has explained
that ‘workers should be told that
their former high wages were
unreasonable, a remnant of the
outmoded capitalist-system and a
strategic manoeuvre of the
capitalists.’ ”
Space-travel
The meeting in Rome of
the International Astronautical
Federation to discuss the remain-
ing obstacles to space-travel
moved Edinburgh “Scotsman” to
comment that “there is more
danger of underestimating than
of overestimating the speed of
progress in this field,” and A. V.
Cleaver to add, in London
“Daily Telegraph,” that “three
imminent developments should
suffice to convince any surviving
sceptics that the age of inter-
planetary flight is about to
dawn.”
Cleaver, British rocket-
engineer and chairman of the
British Interplanetary Society in
1948-50, lists the three develop-
ments :
“First, it is already accepted
that, within the next decade or
so, the strategic bomber is likely
to yield its place as the domin-
ant weapon to the inter-
continental ballistic missile.
These giant rockets, able to carry
thermonuclear warheads across
the oceans and continents, will
represent something approaching
the ultimate in deterrent power.
“The men charged with their
development, such as Dr.
Wernher von Braun (responsible
for V 2, and now working in
America), are almost unanimous
in regarding them as roughly the
equivalent of prototype-model
spaceships.
“Secondly, within only a year
or two, instrument-carrying
satellite rockets will be orbiting
the earth, actually out in space.
The United States, and perhaps
Russia, will launch them during
the International Geophysical
Year, 1957-58.
“Thirdly, in America at least,
project-studies are well advanced
for piloted rocket-vehicles which
are obviously the missing-links
in the evolution of aircraft into
space-ships. For example, the
North American X-15 research-
project, for which contracts have
been placed, has been quoted as
likely to have a performance of
between Mach 5 and 10 (that is,
a speed between five and 10 times
that of sound) at altitudes
between 50 and 100 miles. Its
only conceivable use would be to
investigate the problems of con-
trolled re-entry into the earth’s
atmosphere, without excessive
heating by air-friction.”
Meanwhile, “M anchester
Guardian” comments that “in
their extravagant way, the
would-be astronauts have
touched on a real terrestrial
problem”:
“Modern developments have
made the question whether air-
craft or -other airborne devices
have a right to fly over a nation’s
sovereign territory ofte of some
importance. Until recently, con-
duct in these matters was
regulated by the Chicago Con-
vention, signed by members of
the International Civil Aviation
Organisation.
“Under the terms of this con-
vention, nations were given a
sovereign right to deny the air
above them to foreign aircraft
—a notion that is responsible for
the practice which airline-
operators adopt of seeking per-
mission before their aircraft are
directed over the territory of
other States.
“But now things have changed.
Aircraft fly faster and higher,
so that the chance that an error
cf navigation may carry one of
them over foreign territory is
much greater than it used to be.
Then there are other devices
—rockets, satellites, and good-
ness knows what else —whose
courses cannot always be pre-
dicted with the accuracy that
their designers would like. What
is to be done about these?
“It would seem then that a
nation’s just right to complain of
aerial trespass would be less for
high-flying fast objects than for
low-flying ones travelling at a
few hundred miles an hour.
Eventually, at some height, there
should be no reasonable cause to
complain at all.”
Panama
The Suez dispute having
caused side lo n g looks at
Panama, U.S. Secretary of State
Dulles has reaffirmed Uncle
Sam’s position regarding the
central American waterway.
The 10-mile strip of land
through which the canal runs
was leased to the U.S.. by the
Panamanian Government “in
perpetuity” in 1903 for a down-
payment of $ 10-million and a
regular annual amount which, in
1955, was raised to $1,930,000.
Commenting on current U.S.-
Panama relations, . London
“Economist” points out that “the
Panama Canal is run by the
American Government itself
exercising its perpetual rights,
and not by a commercial com-
pany operating on a concession
of limited duration. And there
is no international convention
guaranteeing freedom of transit.
“For these reasons the
American Government main-
tains that the status of the
Panama Canal is entirely irrele-
vant to the negotiations on the
Suez Canal.
“But Mr. Dulles’s assertion
that the United States ‘holds the
sole right to exercise sovereignty
within the canal zone, to the
exclusion of every other Govern-
ment’ drew from the Panamanian
Government the tart rejoinder
that the canal was built on
Panamanian territory, <sver
which Panama had never
relinquished sovereignty, and
that all Panama had granted to
the United States was ‘certain
powers expressly for the purpose
of the canal and nothing else.’
“This exchange has done
nothing to improve the relations
between the two countries, which
were already touchy. But the
sporadic unrest in Panama Gity,
the angry newspaper editorials
asserting ‘our sovereign rights,’
and the Panamanian student
demonstrations for Nasser and
nationalisation, should not be
taj|en too seriously.”
Various Voices
Britain's Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Harold Macmillan :
“If you want to get more than
a pint out of your pot you must
get a larger pot and you must
brew more beer. In other words,
if you want more enjoyment of
material things you must in-
crease production. It is really no
good kidking against the pricks
of economic fact.”
Prime Minister Eden : “I do
not believe that true and lasting
peace can be bought at the price
of a surrender of rights or
legitimate interests to outside
pressure and force.”
* General Gruenther (Supreme
Commander, Allied Powers in
Europe): “The next five years
will be very critical. After the
launching of the Russian charm-
offensive, there is danger of the
democracies relaxing their
vigilance. We have to consider
that the Russians still have
much larger armed forces than
we have.”
Robert Boothby, British Con-
servative M.P.: “All over the
world the power and influence of
the West is at this moment
declining. Why? Because we
are conducting a global struggle
against the forces of Communism
without any central organ and
political decision and without
any common policy.”


The greatest working-partner a man ever had!
TFAM WM WOWODCE WH A
MFFfOD M/mSM mcm*
&
\;V.;
■'4SH
5®:?:
3
m
m
NS
m
BMCf
MTS2J2
Up goes your work capacity . . . down go your
farming costs when you team your knowledge with
the Nuffield Universal Tractor. For this great task
force has proved itself under all farming conditions
. . . can be relied upon to provide a perfectly
balanced performance, the utmost dependability, the
lowest possible running costs. You can choose from
either diesel or kerosene power units, each of which
will deliver a reliable flow of power exactly right for
the job in hand. And this is important—there’s a
comprehensive and varied range of “approved-after-
test” matched implements available virtually an
implement for every job. See your Nuffield Dis-
tributor or Dealer—let him show you the advantages
of the Nuffield Universal models . . . show you, too,
the important extras that are included in the price!
Kerosene models from £879 • Diesel from £1,090
I
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor and Implement
Division, Box 78, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-after-Test" Matched Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS
| [ Place X in square if for school project.
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors 4nd Dealers Everywhere
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA PTY LTD
BUS SEATS
FOR SALE
Set of eleven new twin bus seats
to fit S model Bedford Bus.
Enquiries to —
BELL STREET BUS COMPANY,
326 Bell St., Preston, Victoria.
specific purpose, a Djakarta
house. Therefore money should
not be spent for any other
purpose, however good, without
approval. The Treasury man
hastens to say that Parliament
did approve this grant, appar-
ently a general one.
Then another sector of the
public service comes under the
committee’s spotlight—the Aus-
tralian News and Information
Bureau. The director admits that
its functions are the same as
those of the defunct Depart-
ment of Information (deceased
by Government direction in
1950), with the exception of
short-wave radio, Radio Aus-
tralia, now in the care of the
A.8.C., but its staff is
considerably less.
He recalls that the first of the
bureau’s eight overseas posts,
that in New York, had been set-
up by R. G. Casey, when
Minister to Washington, in 1942,
on the recommendation of a
U.S. firm of publicists. It was
established “to • make the
American community aware of
the Australian war effort, and
to prove that the Pacific was not
a ‘sideshow.’ ” London began
in 1943 when post-war migration
needs were being envisaged, and
The Hague (1949) and others
followed. The general over-
riding purpose is “to make Aus-
tralia more widely and more
favorably known abroad.”
Films and booklets are men-
tioned. “Our materials are
aimed always at the influential,
opinion-forming sections of the
communities.”
It is admitted the bureau's
total staff of 165 “at home and
abroad” has only four “per-
manents.” The Western Aus-
tralian says, “You are a most
unusual director. You haven’t
even one deputy-director!”
There is some discussion on
who prepared the booklets which
the committee has seen some
time ago as evidence of the work
of the Colombo Plan. It is estab-
lished, a little to the surprise of
members, that these were pre-
pared—and paid for —by the
bureau.
Other witnesses show how a
waterside strike can increase the
costs of running a lighthouse
steamer; how typewriters are
bought more cheaply for the
public service than by the public
(although this witness coyly
declines to disclose prices); and
how the atomic tests had meant
overtime and more equipment for
meteorologists and radar-men in
the Weather Bureau.
All this is dovetailed into two
typical sittings of the committee.
Documents are produced,
obscure details in bygone
Estimates are mentioned. The
committee, in other words, is
right down to its job. It is
making a determined effort to
satisfy itself, and to strike some
useful blows for the taxpayers
who provide most of the funds.
One witness said during the
second day, “Oh, it was only
just a small matter of £l5OO or
so.” That is the sort of attitude
that the committee is trying to
check. It is prevalent among
Ministers as well as in many
levels of the public service. If
the committee succeeds, everyone
will benefit.
comments which would not'occur
to an English or American
conductor: “It gets lost for the
ears,” he complains when an
effect he has labored to produce
among the violins is played by
the full orchestra.
There is no doubt in the
listener’s mind from the begin-
ning of the rehearsal that here is
a sincere artist at work. A lesser
man could have been made self-
conscious by a microphone
placed to pick up his working-
directions ; or he could have
made a slick attempt to put over
a glib performance of himself as
the master-conductor in action.
Bruno Walter obviously forgets
the microphone; quite fre-
quently he runs away from it,
so that his voice is almost lost.
It soon becomes apparent that
he is not concerned about
polishing the orchestra’s tech-
nique but with instilling into the
players his interpretation of the
spirit of the symphony.
This is by no means a simple
matter. He makes them play the
opening passage of a few bars
at least a dozen times, first trying
to get what he wants by such
technical directions as, “Your
‘A’s’ are too long,” and “Gentle-
men, you overdo it” ; then he
decides that the only way is by
example, so he sings the passage
to them.
“It is expressivo,” he explains.
They suddenly understand
him, and play it so satisfactorily
that he cries out exultantly above
the orchestra, “That’s it! You
have it now! Keep it!”
When he wants more volume,
his voice rises to shouts of
“Forte!” ; then he hisses them
to near silence for a pianissimo
passage: “Nothing!” he demands,
with picturesque exaggeration.
In one part he gets the effect
he wants by “reversing the bow-
ing.” This is a refinement the
lay listener would never imagine ;
it could never occur to him that
there would be a perceptible
difference if the violinists began
a passage with the bows going
up instead of down.
At another point, after he has
made repeated complaints about
“accents” (meaning accentuated
notes) in a string passage, one of
the violinists protests that it is
impossible to play it all with one
bowing. They have a free
discussion, with many of the
instrumentalists / volunteering
demonstrations of how it might
be done.
But generally his difficulties
are not technical ones. Repeat-
edly he implores the players Ao
make the music “sing,” and by
this he means, as he demon-
strates vocally, that it must have
the quality of rapture.
“It is not energetic,” he says
in a lively passage ; Vit is lyrical.”
He is always demanding
intangible things, “A diminuendo
should have more charm ” ; then
he sings the diminishing-volume
passage, “Do, do, do, do,” and,
though his ageing voice some-
times has rough edges and
breaks, one feels nothing but
admiration for his determination
to try all means to get what he
wants.
The playing-time for the
rehearsal-section of the record-
ing is about 80 minutes. This
is a long time to listen, but it
is all so fascinating that it passes
quickly. And all the while, as
you hear him putting his
definitely individual stamp on
the production, you are filled
with a consuming impatience
to hear the finished performance.
Those who admire what one
might call the “English” mode
of conducting Mozart (since on
records Sir Thomas Beecham is
the most eminent example)
should be warned that this may
not be their interpretation. Here
you do not get the polished
elegance, the glistening effi-
ciency, the metronomic tempo,
and the stiff upper-lip in the
slow movement. Walter does not
make you think of Mozart as the
incredibly brilliant designer of
sound-patterns, but as a great
musician with a poetic soul.
The “Linz” Symphony is not
generally considered to be one
of Mozart’s “greats,” but Walter
makes it sound great. He under-
stands Mozart probably as well
as any man living.
“You see how delicate this
music is,” he says admiringly
to his players at one stage of the
rehearsal; “every bar has some
problem for us,”
It is in the tender and delicate
slow movement that he wins you
over most completely. In Bruno
Walter’s performance of the
adagio movement you learn with
just what exquisite judgment
his demands for expressive and
lyrical playing have been made ;
his playing of it is deeply
emotional, but it has a strength
and dignity that are the very
opposite of sentimentality.
This recording will probably
provoke a good deal of discus-
sion about the advisability of
demonstrating to the public the
processes by which a work of art
is produced. My own conviction,
supported by what one cannot
but learn from Bruno Walter, is
that the sincere artist in any
medium has nothing to fear
from a revelation of his methods.
Inevitably he must have a deep
understanding, a noble vision,
and a compulsion to take infinite
pains: these are qualities which
no one can observe without
feelings of respect.
G.B.S.
Hater of birthplace—Dublin with its ire
Of ancient intellect: self-limited :
Your own son turning you upon yourself,
Your rapier of scorn upon your scorn —
You sharpened him, his play of merry word:
Exact, unbaffled . . . Mercury in Sun
Without Will’s Venus-laughter (as with man
And not at man); the goat upon the rock
Wagging its beard at man the ape and clown.
For Will whs English, seeking beer and bread
And a love-song by the way : a son of field and inn
Not an eclectic : great in littleness,
Loving the little: you were reason’s friend.
Did Venus’ love and beauty grasp you unaware
In Jehane’s spirit—through the feminine ?
An idea of your wife’s to woo St. Joan . . .
Bold dialectic but with throbbing heart
And your dry logic burning on her lips.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


When marking and
tailing lambs all sheep
owners realise how
important it is to
minimise shock. In
this respect the ex-
perience of users of
Elastrator Rubber
Rings is interesting.
The following typical
comment is by a
grazier in Western
Queensland “After
20 minutes lambs
show no sign of hav-
ing been dime and
leave the yard and
mother up better,
showing no ill effects.”
See CAMERON & SUTHERLAND FARMERS’ BOY
DISPLAY AT LAUNCESTON and HOBART ROYAL
SHOWS
-
H '
■ s m*
6 m.
■ m
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a \\ h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St. f Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & .Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St.. Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD..
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers l Boy Major”
and Accessories,
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“[?] WORRY. IN SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE
'T'HE outstanding display of
A British breeds of sheep in
Victoria is at the annual Royal
Show. The Melbourne Sheep
Show, in July, mainly revolves
around the Merinos and their
cousins ; although, as reported
in The Bulletin at the time,
there was quite a respectable
line-up of British breeds this
year.
The same sort of overlapping
was seen at the Melbourne
ROMNEY MARSH EWES WITH LAMB AT FOOT
BEING JUDGED AT MELBOURNE SHOW
Royal, where there was quite a
good exhibition of Corriedales.
Merinos, Polwarths, Hampshire
Downs and Dorset Downs were
not represented, although there
was a special display of Merinos
in the wool-pavilion.
With the exception of one or
two lamb classes, quality was
maintained in all breeds despite
the very wet winter in most of
southern Australia’s grazing-
areas. In fact, several judges
and experienced onlookers said
they had never seen better quality
in Melbourne.
The display showed the
Dorset Horn, Border Leicester,
Southdown, Cheviot and Rye-
land to be the leading British
breeds in Victoria. The English
Leicester seems to be holding its
own, but the Suffolk, Shropshire
and Lincoln appear to be
struggling for survival. Even
so, the Suffolk contests drew
keen competition from three
excellent studs.
By transferring the large
entries of Dorset Horns, South-
downs and Cheviots to the
spacious pavilion which formerly
housed poultry, and conducting
the Romney Marsh and Ryeland
contests in grassy rings, the
Royal Agricultural Society of
Victoria showed commendable
enterprise. This year conditions
were very favorable for com-
petitors, judges and spectators—
a welcome improvement.
Outstanding features of the
contests were:
The almost-perfect ram which
won the Dorset Horn champion-
ship for K. G. Luke, of Romsey.
Howard Yelland’s (Newlyn)
unusual feat of winning the
Romney Marsh ram- and ewe-
championships with the same
sheep that won the honors for
him last year.
Champion and reserve-
champion Ryeland ewes being
drawn from the same pair,
exhibited by Robert Alston, of
St. Germains, near Kyabram.
The general high standard of
young sheep and shorn classes.
Strong inter-State competition.
Dorset Horns
In general, Dorset Horns
were uniform in type and
quality. Despite the huge classes
only a few sheep failed to reach
a high standard.
The judge, E. Dawkins, of
South Australia, was enthusiastic
about K. G. Luke’s champion
ram: “So perfect that it con-
forms to every requirement of
the studbook,” was his comment.
This ram also won the Alan
Knight Memorial and K. G.
Luke trophies.
The reserve champion, one of
a pair entered by W. J. Dawkins,
Newbold, Ltd., had outstanding
conformation, but had to give
away points to the champion for
head-quality.
Hardest male class to judge
was the section for woolled
pairs; they were matched
excellently.
Overall, the Dorset Horn ewes
were very good, according to
N. G. Stewart, who was adjudi-
cating in a Melbourne Royal
show-ring for the first time. Both
the championship and reserve
championship went to ewes
brought over from South Aus-
tralia by C. M. Hart and Co., of
Two Wells.
Although only a two-tooth,
the champion had a wonderful
carcass. , The slightly - older
reserve champion was not quite
so well built, but was excellently
woolled.
The only class that did not
come up to standard was the
one for ew^-lambs; and these
were obviously affected by the
wet season. Standard of the
shorn-ewe cla&s was very good.
In addition to parading the
champion ram, Mr. Luke won
three ram classes and two ewe
classes. Other exhibitors to do
well (apart from those who won
major prizes) were A. Taylor, of
Cudal (N.S.W.); T. C. Pryse
and Son, of Everton Upper
(Vic.); L. R. Hart, of Two
Wells (S.A.) ; W. S. Martin and
Sons, of Sandy Creek (S.A.);
T. A. Thomas, of Mulwala
(N.S.W.) ; and H. C. Yates and
Sons, of Yerong Creek (N.S.W.).
Border Leicesters
Although somewhat over-
shadowed by the Dorset Horns,
and suffering from the absence
of at least three leading breeders,
the Border Leicesters put on a
show which judges and veterans
thought was well up to standard.
A feature was the even high-
quality of most classes: to win
a blue-ribbon was a real honor.
Evenness Was particularly
evident in the classes for ewe
pairs, in which Edward Hayes,
of Lemnos (Vic.), the judge, had
great difficulty in selecting the
prizewinners.
C. Squire, of Cowra (N.S.W.),
one of the most popular judges
in the Melbourne show-ring,
said it was the best lot of Border
Leicester rams that had ever
come before him for assessment.
There was practically no “tail,”
even in the large classes.
He gave ’the championship to
an aged sheep exhibited by Fred
D. Moresi, of Terrappee, which
won by a slight margin from the
younger entry of Fred. G.
Hewitt, of Warracknabeal,
because of its better-handling
quality. The winner was slightly
longer than the runner-up.
Both sheep were very well
grown and had heavy fleeces of
typical Border Leicester wool.
Heads of both were excellent.
Young sheep were really a credit
to the owners in the way in
which they were grown and
brought out for judging.
The class for young shorn
rams, won by the entry of T. C.
Pryse and Son, of Everton
Upper, included an exceptionally
well-grown youngster bred by
Mr. Moresi.
Mr. Hayes said the ewes were
the most even lot he had seen in
Melbourne. They were probably
one of the best-woolled classes
ever in the ring there, and con-
dition was wonderful despite the
wet winter.
The champion ewe, paraded
by the consistent G. F. E. Hosk-
ing and Sons, of Kerang, had
great substance and condition. It
carried a very dense fleece of
crimpy wool.
Reserve,position went to a ewe
bred by Wilson G. J. Beer and
Sons, of Nanneella South, near
Rochester, which had a stylish
head, well-sprung body, and a
good type of crimpy wool,
which, however, was not as dense
as the champion’s.
Throughout the day, G. R.
Hall, of Moola (between Swan
Hill and Kerang), exhibited some
excellent sheep and won several
prizes. T. C. Pryse and Sons also
scored well. Estate Hon. A. J.
Maclachlan, of South Morang,
won both novice classes,
although Mrs. M. Jeffrey pro-
vided good competition in both
the open and novice classes.
English Leicesters
Although few, English
Leicesters that went before D. S.
MacGregor, of Baringhup, for
adjudication were classy. lan
Morrish, of Kingston, and
RYELANDS—LINE-UP FOR THE EWE CHAMPIONSHIP
Williamson Bros., of Carisbrook,
competed keenly throughout the
day, with honors about even.
Mr. Morrish won the ram
championship with a l|-to-2i-
year-old sire, which scored from
a still younger ram exhibited by
the Williamsons. The latter won
the female championship with an
aged ewe; she beat Morrish’s
entry into the reserve position.
Cheviots
One of the greatest advances
in recent years has been made by
thi Cheviot, renowned for its
excellent mothering qualities;
the section attracted 10 breeders,
including two Tasmanians.
Jim Mclntosh, of Nar Nar
Goon, who adjudicated, said it
was the best display of the breed
seen at Melbourne. He awarded
the ram championship and
reserve ewe championship to
John Lyne, of Powranna (Tas.),
who also won the Cheviot
Breeders’ Plate for the most suc-
cessful breeder in the section.
Nevertheless, probably the
most outstanding sheep of the
breed was the ewe champion,
exhibited by R. M. and Mrs.
E. K. Metherall, of Tooradin ;
this ewe won in Melbourne last
year and. again at the 1956
Sydney Sheep Show, and, parad-
ing gaily and exhibiting a great
head and beautiful fleece, is a
true champion.
Fogarty and Blackwell, of
Oaklands Junction, owned the
reserve-champion ram.
Southdowns
Quality of the Southdowns was
the best he had seen for years,
and all entries were brought out
well, was the opinion of Norman
Badcock, of Westbury (Tas.),
who judged them. He had
special praise for the very even
big line-up of young rams and
for the under-1 ewes,
which he said was the outstand-
ing class of the day.
Mr. Badcock gave the ram
championship to a very good
sire, shown by Rex Thompson,
of Tallygaroopna, which, he
said, was the best he had seen
in Melbourne for many years.
The reserve champion, entered
by R. J. Heazlewood, of
North Motton (Tas.) —who,
incidentally, bred Mr. Thomp-
son’s winner—was also a nice
sheep, /but was not as well
developed as the champion.
In the female classes, C. H.
Hawkins and Sons, of Sheppar-
ton, led the ewe champion,
which, in addition to being very
even, had a good head, well-
sprung ribs, and was let down
very well behind. The reserve
champion, a very young ewe
exhibited by B. T. Bakes, of
Central Castra (Tas), did not
have the maturity of develop-
ment of the older champion.
Other successful exhibitors of
('Continued on next page )


■ f K•* J
-a series oi contributions on
questions of the hour by leading
international aviation personalities.
KMUT HAGERUP-SVENDSEN
Vice-President S.A.S. and
one of the authorities on
trans-Arctic flight—
contributes . . .
mm
ms
hr' ■
IS
*: • •
-;
m
It is no new discovery that the shortest way
between two of the world’s great population
centres crosses Arctic areas ; but before
opening the route for passenger service,
S.A.S. were faced with many problems,
among which navigation was prominent.
The best navigational aid is still astro-
navigation based on fixes, and since navi-
gable stars are visible all 24 hours during
the winter, this is the better time for flight.
An instrument called “ Kollsman’s Polarised
Sky Compass ” has been evolved, which will
give a bearing on the sun even when it is
below the horizon, or hidden behind light
clouds. This instrument is used by S.A.S.
The directional gyro is used for maintaining
direction in the area of the polar region where
the magnetic types of compasses will not
operate within 1,000 nautical miles of the
magnetic pole. To determine the direction to
be set into the directional gyro the astro-
compass must be used.
The use of radio aids in polar navigation
is limited—due to the scarcity of radio
stations and magnetic storms and distur-
bances in the Aurora Zone. The North
Atlantic and Greenland Loran chain pro-
vides cover over Greenland, Baffin Bay and
Northern Canada, while the Consol stations
at Bush Mill and Stavanger provide cover up
to 70° N. between Greenland and Norway.
Airborne radar may be of immense assist-
ance to the navigator in the polar region for
taking drifts, computing speeds and wind
calculations. The radar altimeter is used
extensively when utilizing pressure position
lines.
S.A.S. has tackled all the navigational
problems by now and has already gained
great experience in Arctic flying. There is
no doubt that trans-polar routes have the
utmost possibilities and attractions.
AVIATION
SERVICE
serves aviation well
The BP Aviation Service is operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITER
(in association with
The British Petroleum Company Limited) 2/56
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
the breed included Richard A.
Hughes, of Longford (Tas.), and
J. Metcalf and Sons, of Kyneton
(Vic.). Winners of the novice
classes were L. A. Hinton and
Son, of Vite Vite (Vic,), and
R. F. Hornhardt, of Freeling
(S.A.).
Ryelands
Ryelands made another excel-
lent numerical advance, from 80
to 143 entries, despite the unfor-
tunate absence of the famous
Burnwood stud, owned and
operated by John Mclntosh and
his son, lan, at Merrigum (Vic.).
A. G. Watson, of Kyabram
(Vic,), who adjudicated, said the
display was well up to previous
standards, particularly the rams
and young ewes. The older ewes
were not quite as good as usual.
A few sheep were showing the
signs of the wet winter, but the
tops seemed to be unaffected by
the season. Apart from T. J.
Lifford’s (Merrigum) win with
the ram champion, major prizes
were dominated by Robert
Alston, of St. Germains, who
not only won the rest of the
championships but captured the
Burnwood trophy for the best
group of Ryelands.
Mr. Lifford’s champion was
a good sheep, with all the marks
of an excellent sire: a good, bold
sheep, with an excellent con-
formation, fine outlook, and a
fleece good enough to force Mr.
Alston’s best ram into the
reserve position.
The latter breeder’s champion
and reserve-champion ewes were
drawn from the pairs class—an
unusual feat- The evenly
balanced champion showed
excellent type and conformation
and other features such as quality
of head, nostril and fleece.
The reserve champion was of
a broader type, and lacked the
quality of its Victor. Most suc-
cessful of the other exhibitors
were Mrs. lan Blyth. of Rose-
bud, D. Wadeiton, of Girgarre,
M. and T. Paternoster, of
Furner (S.A.), and Brian
Whiteley, of Pakenham. L. R.
and E. R, Allison, of Main
Ridge, won both novice classes.
Romney Marsh
Apart from the ram champion-
ship, which went to Ivor
Manton’s (Monegeetta) entry,
all major prizes for Romney
Marsh sheep went to Howard
Yelland, of Newlyn, whose ram
and ewe won the championships
last year.
L. Spehr, of Furner (S.A.), the
judge, said quality was very high
despite the decline in numbers.
The sirey champion ram had
excellent bone and conforma-
tion; a strong sheep which
carried its age well. The in-
formation of Mr. Manton’s
smaller reserve champion was
likewise outstanding, and it
carried a nice fleece.
Probably the best Romney in
the show was Mr. Yelland’s
beautifully bodied champion
ewe, which handled excellently.
The reserve champion, from the
same stud, displayed equal con-
formation-quality, but was not
let down as well on the points
as the champion.
Suffolks, Shropshires, Lin-
colfis
"The small entry of Suffolks
judged by George King, of
Scotts Creek, provided an excel-
lent three-cornered contest
between Allen E. Day, of Alma
(S.A.), who scored both male
major prizes, Richard Shipp, of
Kerang (Vic.), who entered the
champion ewe, and S. W. Porter,
of Orford (Vie.), who paraded
the reserve-champion ewe.
Outstanding sheep was the
champion ram, recent winner
of the championship at the
Adelaide Show, which displayed
length, robustness and beautiful
fleshing to outscore his com-
petitors.
E. W, Ham and Son, of
Goorambat, and-j. A. Christie,
of Byaduk, entered high-quality
Shropshires and Lincolns respec-
tively, without opposition.
Corriedales
Arch. E. Mclntosh, of Ellam,
paraded both the champion ram
and champion ewe of the Corrie-
dale breed. The latter was reserve
champion at the recent Adelaide
Show, and the former won the
two-year-old class at Adelaide.
Both were well-built rams with
plenty of bone and heavy fleeces
of good-quality wool—a tribute
to their breeding and manage-
ment on a Wimmera property
which has hundreds of acres of
lucerne and rpixed pasture.
Reserve-champion ram and
ewe were exhibited respectively
by B. P. La very and Son, of
Melton South, and R. H. R.
Baker, of B&ringbup. Small-
owners’ classes were won by
Mrs. F. M. Swift and Sons, of
Malmsbury, and J. T. Hamblin,
of Toolleen.
DlIXiEROO.
impaction
“W.C.Q.”: Summer, with dry,
coarse feed and muddy drink-
ing-water, can mean impaction
in the dairy-herd. The beast stops
feeding and cud-chewing, stands
disconsolately about with
bloated belly, breathes in short
gasps, and is constipated.
This trouble is rare where the
stock get some molasses daily,
as this keeps the bowels working.
Even wetting dry-feed with
molasses thinned with water just
before feeding will often ward
off “packing.” '
Give a good purgative—lib. of
Epsom-salts is good — and
follow-up with half the quantity
of the same if the beast is not
free within 24 hours. Enemas of
warm water every half-hour
until four have been given (£gal.
of water in all) are helpful.
Forty-thousand Tons
“Agricola”: Most of Queens-
land’s sheep are run in the
under-20in.-rainfall belt. The
seasons are uncertain, and
droughts cause huge losses.
The main food is Mitchell-
grass, which, though nutritious,
needs regular falls of rain for
its growth.
The University of Queensland,
after an economic survey of the
area, decided to encourage
fodder-conservation. The fodder
would be used to tide-over the
drought-months.
The work of organising and
supervising was entrusted to
P. J. Skerman, a senior lecturer
at the University. In his report,
just released, Mr. Skerman states
that so far 40,000 tons of silage
have been stored on 20 stations.
This would feed 10,000 sheep
for 12 months.
The work is only beginning,
and the scheme aims to have
reserves of silage sufficient to
end drought-losses altogether.
Meantime, a reserve of 40,000
tons of fodder on 20 properties
is something.
The idea is based essentially
on “opportunist farming”—that
is, making the most of the good
years. After the hard work of
a long drought graziers are only
too pleased to let Nature take-
over for a while ; but this is the
time to get . busy. It’s too late
to try to grow anything when
the drought has set in. '
The University recommended
fodder-sorghum for ensiling.
Superphosphate had to be used
in certain areas to build soil-
fertility.
Fodder - conservation is a
national problem. The stock-
losses during a man-sizCd
drought not only affect the land-
owner but play havoc with the
national economy. Anything
that harms our wool- or meat-
exports is serious.
The Queensland Department
of Agriculture and Stock has
given the matter a lot of thought,
and has published a booklet on
silage. Every farmer will be able
to get a copy, and if it is the
means of having more fodder
conserved it will represent
money well spent.
Trench - silos are recom-
mended. Modern earthmoving-
equipment has taken the
drudgery out of trench-digging;
although many farmers still
excavate with farm-machinery.
Costs vary from 2s. 6d. to ss.
a cubic-yard, depending on the
type of soil and the equipment.
Phis runs out at from ss. to
I Os. a ton-space.
The crop can be harvested
with a buckrake or forage-
harvester. The latter is recom-
mended as the buckrake is
limited to distances of a
quarter-mile from the trench.
The crops shopld be cut on
land that can be raked-up within
an hour of mowing. If the cut
crop is left too long in the field
it wilts excessively, and will
heat-up too much in the trench.
* Maize and sorghums are
generally ensiled, although
lucerne, grass, cereals and other
crops may be us£d.
The booklet stresses the
importance of cutting the crop
at the right time. This ensures
the correct moisture-content and
the greatest food-value.
Sorghum, wheat and other
cereals should be cut wheD the
grain is in the soft, doughy
stage ; maize, when the grain is
dented ; cowpeas, when the first
pods have filled ; grass, before
the pollen has fallen.
The silage should be well
pressed down in the trench. This
prevents overheating; lOOdeg.
F. is the ideal temperature.
Check it occasionally with a
thermometer. If it is too high
more pressure must be applied.
Run the tractor over the silage
a few times. This is probably
the simplest way of pressing it
into the trench.
When filled thfe trench should
be sealed. The recommendation
is Ift. of earth. Sawdust, or
soft grass, may also be used to
keep out air and water. Plastic
covers will do the trick.
The booklet suggests a daily
rolling for a week to consolidate
the top of the silo.
Feeding-out is recommended
in time of drought and in the
late winter and early spring,
varying the amount fed each
day according to the amount of
pasture available. Silage, if
properly made, will last for
years.
The variety of crops that can
be ensiled allows a choice to be
made that will suit all types of
soil and most rainfalls.
Let’s hope the fodder-conser-
vation drive is successful. There
will never be stability in the
rural economy while sums
totalling millions are periodically-
lost during droughts. Silage is
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/9/’56)
Good rains should bring relief to many areas of
Queensland during October, and this should be followed by
moderately good rains during November. Heavier raihs may
occur during December.
In N.S.W. moderate rains are likely during October and
November, with fairly heavy rains during December. Par-
ticularly heavy falls may occur on the central and south
coasts and tablelands in that month.
General rains, above normal, should occur in Victoria
during October, and these should be followed by fairly heavy
storm-rains in the first half of November; then patchy for
the balance of the year.
General rains should occur in South Australia for the
remainder of the year, and heavy rains may occur in the
interior and Central Australia during November—December.
Good rains*'may occur in the Kimberleys of W.A. during
November, and also in the De Grey, East Gascoyne and s.-w.
central-north, but light and patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


- HUMES
pipe for every
purpose
m
m
: : !*
r
d
I
Whether you need only one or two lengths of
6" pipe for a driveway or home drainage, or
hundreds of pipes from 4" to 72" for a complete
drainage system, Humes experts are there to
advise, assist and supply.
<m>
lIIIMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.* BX 4135
FACTORIES IN:
Adamsfown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth. H 4
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
New INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
have reserve load-carrying capacity!
Rugged trucks with stronger
chassis and springs, axles and
transmissions proved on
“Trial by Torture”, offer
reserve capacity to handle
the tough jobs.
A
I
B
■
International AS-160
Truckmen’s choice for more USABLE horsepower,
easy handling and cab comfort!
Reserve Capacity!
If your job calls for reliable medium-heavy duty trucks, see
the International AS-160, 161 and 162 each model
equipped to match a different transport-task.
Usable Horsepower!
It’s the usable horsepower for heavy duty work that counts
—power developed at lower, economical engine speeds. The
new Australian Black Diamond ABD-240 engine fitted to
the International AS-160 and AS-161 develops maximum
brake H.P. of 131 at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum torque is
208.5 lbs. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
The International AS-162 trucks use the ABD-264 engine
—developing 140 max. B.H.P- at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum
torque is 234 lb. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
More Comfort!
Operator-designed Comfo-Vision cabs with sweep-sight
curved windscreen are the roomiest on the road. Drivers
can really relax, work longer without fatigue.
AS-161 with tray body.
I.H. Dealers for sales and service in all important centres.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
one way to wipe-out these
losses.
. v
Nuts
“Hop Scrub”: “Big Billy” (B.
5/9/’56) overlooks a few factors
in his recommendations. All
deciduous fruit - trees have
specific “chilling requirements,”
and will only produce heavily
! where temperatures remain low
1 for long enough to give them a
definite “rest period.”
The thermometer must get
down to 33-to-40 degrees F. for
a period of at least three weeks
for almonds, 'five to six weeks
for peaches, eight to nine weeks
for plums and 12 to 13 weeks
for apples; walnuts and pecans.
Queensland and northern-
N.S.W. coastal districts cannot
grow walnuts successfully. In
these districts peaches of the
Chinese strains bear well —
varieties include Bell’s Novem-.
ber, Watt’s Champion and
China Flat.
Almonds are completely un-
profitable in these sub-tropical
regions, and indeed are not
adapted to any part of Queens-
land except, perhaps, in the west
where irrigation is available, and
they must be above the frost-
line. They flourish in typical
Mediterranean climates, such as
South Australia, provided inter-
fertile varieties are interplant ed
for pollination.
In the cooler regions the pecan
may well replace the walnut.
The smooth, thin-shelled nut is
of better quality. It will grow
on a wide range of soils, prefer-
ably slightly acid, pH 5.5 to 6.
Plant on the square 50ft. to
70ft. apart. Varieties include
Stuart and Curtis—said in the
U.S. to be scab-resistant —and
Mahon, Frotscher, Success and
Schley. Yields may reach lcwt.
per tree in 12 to 15 years.
It has been grown in N.S.W.
near Gosford and Queensland
at Gatton (Ag. College), Helidon
and Petrie. The trees made mag-
nificent specimens, but yields
have been poor. Districts where
walnuts do well are preferable.
In our warmer districts, along
the N.S.W. and Queensland
coasts, the macadamia-nut has
commercial possibilities on the
deep, well-drained, sandy-loams
and loams. There are numerous
strains, thick-, medium- and
thin-shelled. Grafted trees can
be obtained from any reputable
nurseryman in these localities.
Established plantings are mainly
seedlings, and consequently lack
uniformity in type and produc-
tion.
Plant out February -to-April,
30ft. apart, and prune to 30-36 in!
in height, allowing three or four
branches to defelop from the
whip. Later only light thinning
is necessary.
Interplanting in the early
years to vegetables, pawpaws and
pineapples helps to reduce the
overhead. Shallow cultivation,
regular fertilising, using green-
manures in summer —velvet-
beans, cowpeas, etc.—and a com-
plete inorganic mixture, 8:10:5,
at lib. per year of tree-age in
spring. Occasional sprays of
zinc-sulphate-lime will keep the
orchard in good health.
The nuts fall to the ground,
are gathered and dehusked by
a machine (modified cornsheller),
washed and stored for a month
before marketing. Machines
are used for cracking the nuts
before processing.
In Hawaii the industry is “big
business,” and, given equally
good grading and processing, it
can become so here.
“Myall”: “Big Billy” didn’t
mention the Australian nut
often called the Queensland-nut
( Maca'damia ternifolia), a native
of the scrubs in the south-east
of Queensland and the north-
east of N.S.W.
While it thrives in any deep,
good, well-drained soil that is
fairly rich in humus, it also
succeeds in poorer, stony
ground on hillsides in forest-
country. It can stand long
periods of dry weather when
once established.
The plants are readily raised
from seed; the shell is very
hard, so sometimes six months
will elapse before germination.
The trees should be spaced
at least 25ft. apart, to allow
ample room for their develop-
ment. The only pruning required
is to maintain a clean stem for
a few feet above the ground and
cutting - back of exuberant
growths likely to prevent the
formation of a shapely head.
The tree will grow up to 30ft.
high, and is very handsome. It
commences bearing when from
five to seven years old, and will
continue to produce heavy crops
for up to 50 years.
The round nut is about the
size of a small plum, and is
reputed to be the finest-flavored
nut in the world. Many millions
of the trees have been planted
in Hawaii and California, with
great success. Of late years, a
good deal of attention has been
given to its cultivation in both
Queensland and N.S.W., but the
demand for the tasty nuts far
exceeds the supply.
A few years ago the late A. A.
Petrie, of Petrie (Q.), introduced
an improved variety, the nut
being about twice the ordinary
size, and the shell so thin that
it could be cracked between the
teeth.
Crosscuts
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture reports that Tumut,
Bathurst, Glen Davis, Grafton
and New England districts—-in
fact a good number of districts
in eastern N. S. Wales
—are suitable for hops. Basic
requirements are shelter from
high winds and a supply of
timber for trellises. At present
the State imports £750,000 worth
of hops a year, some from
Tasmania, some from the U.S.
and U.K.
Hops were grown at Tumut,
Bathurst and elsewhere in N.S.W.
over a century ago—E. J.
Waring, departmental agrono-
mist, reports that some of the
original plants from these
gardens are still living. Mr.
Waring adds that it would cost
“as much as £15,000” to erect
a kiln for curing hops, and about
the same amount to establish an
area large enough to keep a
kiln in operation: “Anyone
wishing to invest such a sum
in a farming enterprise might
be more inclined to undertake
grazing pursuits.”
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
dassers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered— in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and gqessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Lifesavers
The Australian surf-lifesaving clubs’
celebration of their centenary this year is
surely an occasion for the issue of a
couple of commemorative stamps.
Surf-lifesaving as practised here is one
of two peculiarly Australian recreations
(the other is Aussie Rules football) and is
also possibly unique in being at once a
sport and a valuable public service. The
techniques evolved on our beaches have
attracted the keen interest of all visitors
and have been copied in many parts of the
world.
Attractive designs for the stamps
immediately suggest themselves —a surf-
boat coming in on a breaker, the reel
in action, a team carrying the rescued
patient from the water.
If our Government would follow the
example of New Zealand, which annually
issues health-stamps sold at a small pre-
mium over postage-value and devotes
the surplus to the maintenance of health-
camps, the funds of the surf-lifesaving
clubs could benefit substantially from a
stamp-issue.— Thlnkit (N.S.W.).
Dam the Murray
Floods in the Murray-Darling river-
system are becoming too frequent to be
comfortable, and each one proves more
expensive than the last. Denudation of
the land around the rivers from Queens-
land to the sea and the silting-up of the
watercourses make each good season a
sure bet for a flood.
The damage to towns and the loss of
soil, property and livestock make the*
question of flood-control one of national
importance. This problem is nothing
new. The Americans had a similar one
in the Tennessee Valley. They solved
it by reafforestation, contour-cultivation
and dams across the river. The dams, as
well as providing water for irrigation,
were used to generate electricity. The
population of the area increased tenfold,
and the productive output in proportion.
Such a scheme for our own rivers
would be costly, and would be a much
larger undertaking than the American
job. But it could be done, and. if it were
it would open-up a vast tract of land for
closer-settlement.
Most of the land along the rivers is
very fertile, and it has been proved in
Queensland that it will grow peanuts,
tobacco, fruit, cotton, lucerne and
improved-pastures for fat-lamb raising.
Other States could follow suit,
The whole of the river-system would
not be suitable for closer-settlement, but
what’s wrong with irrigated pastures and
lucerne for fat lambs, sheep and cattle?
It would certainly knock the fear of
drought on the head. And there’s
nothing wrong with the idea of
reafforestation—we are short of timber
now, particularly softwoods.
If we are to increase our population,
as we must, this land must be more
closely settled. The road of expansion
leads away from the coast, not to it. And
it will be better, in the long run, to
manage the land along the rivers properly
from the word go than to try to reclaim
an area. devastated by floods and
drought.—D. S. R. (Q.).
Property Valuations
To many people in N. S. Wales the
Valuer-General has become something of
.an ogre, because the various rating-
authorities strike their rates on his assess-
ments.
For many years the V.-G. made purely
nominal assessments, which had rela-
tively little in common with sale-value
or investment-value, and as a result
property-owners found themselves in
conflict with him during the period of
land-sales controls —a period noted for
its property-blackmarket.
Because the Land and Valuation Act
requires the V.-G. to render a certificate
of valuation to a municipal authority at
least once in each three years it has
become the practice for these revalua-
tions to be “made at regular three-yearly
intervals. On the fast-rising property-
market of 1948-53 the V.-G. was not able
to keep his valuations up to the level of
values indicated by current sales.
And the market itself is the only true
indicator of value, provided intelligent
analysis allows for influences such as
forced sales, purchases for sentimental
reasons, or other special cases where real
value is not obtained by a vendor, or
above value is paid by an anxious
purchaser.
Lately, however, the V.-G. has caught-
up with the market, and in some
instances is in conflict with owners
because he has branched out into the
sphere of theoretical value, instead of
sticking to sale-value. He is, for instance,
advancing the viewpoint (and the Land
and Valuation Court, for want of logical
argument to the contrary, has accepted
his viewpoint) that the value of a
tenanted dwelling is -the same as that of
an identical but vacant dwelling.
For probate purposes the V.-G. is
prepared to issue a certificate setting out
what is, in his opinion, the value of the
respective interests of owner and tenant.
Owners’ contentions that N.S.W. Land-
lord and Tenant legislation places an
encumbrance on all controlled dwellings
and reduces their value have not been
given due weight by the court, largely
because competent valuers in private
practice are not prepared to take the time
to argue the matter. Nevertheless, the
same Valuer-General has, without any
apologies, placed a reduced value upon
property that has been affected by
potential road-widening schemes and
railways, particularly in Sydney’s
Eastern Suburbs area.
Since the Landlord and Tenant law
in N.S.W. protects tenants so thoroughly
that they have no need whatever for lease-
agreements to secure their tenures, it is
logical to aver that a tenanted property
has not the same value as a similar but
untenanted property. The same prin-
ciple that has guided the V.-G. in his
assessment of the value of properties
affected by roads and rail should prevail
in respect of tenanted property.
“Woorarra” (B. 19/9/’56) hits the nail
on the head when he says that tenanted
property should be valued on the basis
of the net rent. Only when such property
is decontrolled should the V.-G.’s valua-
tion be based upon the fee simple in
“I prefer his fish-and-chips period .”
possession of the owner, for only then
does it acquire value as a vacant property.
The trouble lies in the fact that the
people hardest hit are those with least
money to spend in pursuing their rights
through the judicial jungle. Only when
someone with a well-stocked bank-
account, and assisted by an enterprising
valuer, starts gunning in deadly earnest
for the bureaucrats of Phillip-street will
the position change.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
The Meaning of Things
Somebody iii Alice in Wonderland said
that, when she used a word, it meant what
she meant it to mean. That system of
language can be confusing and is often
dangerous. Abstract terms like
“freedom,” “democracy” and now
“automation” need careful definition,
because they are often used and under-
stood in different senses. Not least among
Professor load’s contributions to clear
thinking was his oft-repeated remark in
“Brains Trust” broadcasts, “It depends
what you mean.”
Many valuable pronouncements have
been made in the past 300-400 years about
the merits of democratic government,
though that term has not always been
used. A recent book on the subject is
C. S. Emden’s The People and the Con-
stitution, a second edition of which has
been published by the Oxford University
Press. It traces the growth of the people’s
influence in British government, and in
his preface the author suggests that, in
some respects, popular influence on
government in recent years has been dis-
appointing. That is hard-saying for those
of us who had come to believe in the
importance of the man-in-the-street.
Just as our Parliamentary leaders are
supported by the back-benchers, so our
whole legislative system depends in turn
on what we may call the “outback-
benches” —that is, upon all those who are
entitled to elect their representatives in
Parliament. We are asked, “How reliable
are the opinions of the ‘outback-
benchers’?” Are they to be trusted in a
general election, when they choose candi-
dates to represent them? Is a Govern-
ment wise to arrange a referendum in
which the electors are asked to decide
some important issue which Parliament
may not or will not decide for itself?
Montesquieu, a Frenchman who wrote
200 years ago, maintained that, while
voters might be capable of choosing fit
persons to govern them, they were not up
to the task of deciding matters of
immediate policy and action. He believed,
in effect, that the “outback-benchers”
could make a fair-enough choice of their
governors, but that they should not be
entrusted with the task of voting on a
particular matter, as in a referendum.
Another political writer of the same
period suggested that the people cannot
see, but they can feel, and a century later
the Prince Consort expressed the same
idea—bravely, but perhaps unwisely—
when he said “the masses on which
popular government rest only feel and
do not think.” Other Victorians, such
as Carlyle and John Stuart Mill, while
favoring some kind of democracy, were
also distrustful of the capacity of the
people to give a reasonable aid to
government.
In recent years, many political writers
have reached the same conclusion. “The
best the public can do,” says Dr. A. F.
Pollard, “is to judge of the work that
is being done in its service without
attempting to do the work of its servants.
It is not a bad judge of the effects of
legislation and government, because it is
the public which feels them; and, as
Washington said, the people must feel
before they can see. They are not,
however, good judges of legislative pro-
posals, because to foresee effects requires
a natural imagination combined with
expert political intelligence.”
Most of us are shortsighted in matters
upon which we are not expert, whether it
be the choice of a car or a wife, or doing
a job of amateur carpentry in the home.
Nearly all of us are non-political, in
spite of Aristotle’s dictum that “man is a
political animal.” We can see the
immediate benefits of some proposed
legislation without seeing far enough into
the future to estimate the defects. Sydney
Smith perhaps exaggerated when he said
“the people are the best judges of their
immediate gratifications and the worst
judges of what would best conduce to
their interests for a series of years.”
Those who believe that we are better-
educated than our fathers would answer
that these old opinions no longer carry
the same weight. But most people would
agree that we need much more training
in clear thinking, both general and poli-
tical. In all realms of ideas there is a
special need for a study of semantics:
this is the science of the meanings of
words (as distinct from their origins or
derivations), how meanings change in the
course of time, and how they often vary
from place to place. Physical science is
not quite so concerned with semantics,
because material things have precise labels
attached to them, and a label can be tied
to no more than one kind of thing.
Those who study the humanities and
other abstract subjects need to be
specially aware of this study of meanings.
This is a matter of practical importance,
and neglect of it may lead us into greater
difficulties than we know. Every
theologian or student of ecclesiastical
history knows of the bitter conflicts in
past centuries caused by the use of
abstract terms in more than one sense.
Greater care about semantics would have
saved Christendom from many sad
conflicts and lasting division. Today, in
the realm of economics and politics, we
are in danger of even more disastrous
conflicts because of exactly the same
neglect—C. E. B. M. (W.A.).
Anzac Day March
Let’s get the Anzac Day march
decision of 1956 R.S.L. congress correct
(B. 5/9/ ’56). Congress went into
committee on two subjects: Anzac Day
march and poker-machine tax. The result
of the former has been fully dealt with ; on
the second matter, an urgent telegram was
sent to N.S.W. Chief Secretary Kelly
asking for tax from machines in R.S.L.
clubs to be returned to sub-branches for
R.S.L. welfare-work. No dice. — Peter B
(N.S.W.).


Decimal Currency
The time is approaching when our
monetary system can be modernised with
advantage. When currency-systems have
broken-down in recent centuries the
decimal-system has been adopted for the
new one. No one wants to alter a system
that is functioning well, but two recent
wars have played havoc with the value
of the money we use. For example, a
man’s haircut costs 4s. or more today,
whereas it cost sixpence half-a-century
ago.
The first step in this direction was taken
soon after the Commonwealth Govern-
ment came into being. A Coinage Bill
was introduced in 1909, which discarded
the half-crown so as to popularise the
florin as the tenth-part of a pound.
Although ha’pennies were provided for
and are still used, no notice was taken
of them on cheques nor in bank-accounts,
even in those days. Our pound then was
the pound sterling; we were using
English money.
Throughout the history of the world
English money has stood the test of time
better than any other. We have seen
the money of the German Empire, the
mark, become worthless in 50 years—the
thaler was used before 1873. The French
money became valueless in the Revolu-
tion and was replaced by the franc in
1795. But sterling is still using all its
original parts £ s. d.
The pound sterling was introduced
before there was a King of England and
long before there was an English
language. The unit selected was 12oz.
troy of silver 92{ per cent, fine (which is
still known as sterling fineness). The
pound of sterling silver was then worth
slightly more than loz. fine of gold,
which is worth £l5 15s. in Australian
money today. It followed exactly the
system introduced by Charlemagne as
Europe was emerging from the Dark
Ages and had to replace the money
provided by the Romans.
In France 12 deniers went to a sou
and 20 sous to a livre or pound, whereas
in England 12 pennies went to a sol
(afterwards shilling) and 20 sols to a
pound (libra). The “d” stood for the
old Roman denarius, the silver penny
which had long been recognised as the
daily wage for a laborer. The quaint
relationship of 240 pennies to the pound
steps-up differently when weights are to
be reckoned as 20dwt. go to an ounce and
12oz. to a pound.
Both systems started-off about the same
time, and France was the leading Power
in the world in those days, but the
French money deteriorated so much
faster than sterling that the denier was
discarded about 1575 as being too small
to be bothered with. It had faded out in
800 years, whereas the sterling “d” is
still in use, although much shrunken. Its
days are probably numbered.
It would be simple for us to take the
second step now with no more trouble
than replacing the little silver threepenny-
bit, running 80 to the pound, with a new
bronze coin running 100 to the pound.
Our money then would become 10
coppers to a florin and 10 florins to a
pound.— George F. Davidson (N.S.W.).
The Arabs
Quoted in “Uncabled Additions” (B.
29/8/’56) that “it has been customary,
though fallacious, to include the
Egyptians” among the Arabs. Actually,
the term “Arab” has more than one
application.
The original Arabs were the inhabitants
of Arabia, and even today on that
peninsula there has been so little inter-
mixing that the pure Arab still exists
there. But the term is now much more
loosely applied, and designates the
“culture-group” of all the peoples in the
Middle East and North Africa per-
manently influenced by the Moslem-Arab
conquests of the 7th- and Bth-centuries
A.D.
In this broader meaning Egypt is an
“Arab” State. (“Arab” and “Moslem”
are not necessarily synonymous;
Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, Afghanistan and
Indonesia are Moslem States, but are not
really part of the Arab world ; they have
not adopted Arabic as their language or
become racially intermixed.)
From around a.d. 630 to 1100 or so
Arab civilisation represented the best in
the world. Scientifically, culturally and
economically the Arabs were well ahead
of contemporary Christendom.
The Arab world produced such great
scientists as Averroes, the greatest of the
Arab commentators on Aristotle (his
commentaries were for long obligatory
study at Paris University), and an
authority in philosophy, jurisprudence,
medicine and mathematics: Avicenna,
who lived in the 11th-century ; the most
influential figure of the eastern half of
the Arab world—he took “all knowledge
for his province” (in the 17th-century
translations of his medical teachings were
still being used in European univer-
sities). There were many others, including
al-Biruni, -whose learning embraced
physics, chemistry, geography, history,
mathematics, astronomy arTd medicine;
and al-Kindi (born a.d. 830), whose work
on optics, based on Euclid’s, influenced
Roger Bacon. It was to various Arab
scholars that medieval Europe owed the
preserving of the arts and sciences of
ancient Greece.
There mightn’t seem much connection
between the splendors of this former
civilisation and the fellaheen along the
Nile today; but the Arab nations are
plainly bent on making themselves into a
powerful bloc. Their attempt should
not be lightly dismissed, or the West
may live to regret it.—Keima (Q.).
Four-million, Please
Westralian. Premier Hawke is asking
the Commonwealth for £4-million “to
relieve unemployment,” and hopes that
this will not be a loan on which the State
will have to pay interest. Who does he
think will pay it?
The unfortunate unemployed will be
found work at the basic wage. This is
simply a means of increasing the dole,
which, while it may appeal to many on
humanitarian grounds, must inevitably
further weaken the country’s finances and
so spread the evil it hopes to minimise.
Labor Governments rightly dread the
reintroduction of the dole, but all their
administration is leading towards it. This
request to the Commonwealth is simply
a method of passing the buck.
The awards of the Westralian State
Arbitration Court prevail over Com-
monwealth awards, and as a result the
State has the highest cost-of-living
figures in the Commonwealth —they were
the lowest a few years ago. By bringing
all awards under the Commonwealth
court the State could assist its finances
considerably. . Why should the residents
of the rest of Australia give £4-million
(as a preliminary offering) to W.A. in
order that its unemployed may receive
a greater wage than the usefully employed
workers of, say, S.A.?
The W.A. Government proposes to
add to its difficulties by taking-over
passenger-transport. At present it collects
from private bus-operators a super-tax
of up to 6 per cent, of their gross takings,
in addition to normal taxes and licence-
fees. These companies manage to pay
this tax, provide good services and pay
a reasonable dividend to their share-
holders. The Government also operates
a sizeable fleet. It escapes most of the
fees the private operators have to pay,
and runs at a loss.
Co-ordination of bus-traffic is an
urgent necessity, but it can be achieved
without the losses which are inevitable
once the Government takes control.—
Black Swan (W.A.).
Medical Benefits
Having only a bare half-day to spend
in town each week, my wife took our
small daughter to an eye-specialist rather
than go through the routine of waiting to
see a hospital doctor and then getting his
recommendation to sqe the specialist.
Drops were ordered and a return-visit
arranged. Before the second visit,
however, a bill arrived for 2ygns.
On inquiry, my wife found that only
15s. would be recoverable through the
Benefits Association, as the usual practice
is to have cases referred to a specialist
by a general-practitioner, in which case
the normal deduction is made on the
g.-p.’s bill, and a greater amount on the
specialist’s account.
It seems odd. Surely I can be trusted
to present myself to an ophthalmic
specialist without having to drop an
introductory fee into the coffers of the
g--P-
In this case it hasn’t paid-off for the
specialist. Next time we’ll go through
the local hospital, make an appointment
to see the specialist, and, that way, get
attention for free.
The joke is that the private specialist
and the hospital specialist are the same
man. — Astigmat (Q.).
‘‘The Green Eye”
The “Service Department” (B, 5/9/’56)
states that “The Green Eye of the Yellow
God,” by Milton Hayes, was published
in Best Loved Poems of the American
People, an anthology selected by Hazel
Felleman.
So it was, but that anthology was pub-
lished in 1936, and I can recall buying
a copy of the musical monologue by
Milton Hayes “The Green Eye of the
Little Yellow God” years before World
War I.
It was published by a London firm
called Reynolds, which also issued such
other monologues as “A Fallen Star”
and “The Social Scale.” As a callow
youth I used to deliver all three with
much satisfaction to myself, if not to
others, at village-concerts in England.
Later, with the British Army in India,
“The Green Eye” was very popular at
regimental concerts, mainly because it
was near-doggerel and apt matter for
mock-heroics.
We knew that Khatmandu had no
British troops stationed there, apart from
a British envoy and his staff, and it was
unlikely that “Mad Carew” would have
charged round the city of 100,000
Gurkhas and capital of the still-
independent nation of Nepal, with its
many temples, brick houses and carved
balconies, to find that “Green Eye” and
pouch it.
We regarded the monologue as so
impossibly inaccurate that it was treated
as a humorous item and loudly
applauded.—W. R. L. P. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 403
Across
I—lntroductory propositions for a
building and is adjuncts. (8)
5—A Spanish hero is sour. (4)
10—Schoolbooks who charge guns?
(7)
Ur —Relative interrupting her spook.
12—Fancies Yours Truly is against
Esmond. (8)
14—Brawls in grounds attended by
me. (6)
.16 —Who make quarter schoolboys?
(6-1)
70 Clapper involved in ringing the
telephone inventor’s language
through it. (6, 2,1, 4)
Bunk swallowed spin. (6)
25—Non-regal elements of Swin-
burne. (8)
30- -Crook place to live in. (7)
3} Sleeping attire close to a sleeper
. ‘ n the permanent way. (7)
32 Narrative poetry engages in egg-
production. (4)
3 Two-faced cat of 6-down is
replaced by Diana. (8)
Down
* Jt helps the digestion go wrong.
(6)
2 Ambler what is for apple-pie
heath? (5)
3 Refrigerant turned in Boadicea’s
folk. (5)
4 Of the Spanish article that is the
heroine of “The Yeoman of the
Guard.” (5)
6 Whip Dr. Albert (a male) in
church. (9)
7 The most dreadful relaxation of
Diana. (6)
8— Bashful Aunt Sally. (3)
9 Improper reference to George
Vi’s wife by a bee who delivers
men of their dreams? (5, 3)
13—Quadruped which is badly hung
up with the Grand National
horseshoe. (3)
15 —Head-covering is conditional on
business. (4)
17— Attempt to check 24-across in a
course of action toothache. (9)
18— Boating and sailing festivals keep
Reginald at Tasmania. (8)
19— Pay attention to Edwin, not
Edwina. (4)
21 — The grain is in this organ. (3)
22 Nonsense outing in a car figure
which is Roman. (6)
23 Remove the obscuring drapes
from the international five and
lie up thereafter. (6)
26 When a froggy has Mondayitis?
(5)
27 — Golfing achievement makes East
agile without ego. (5)
28—Who observes anybody but Queen
Elizabeth and King Edward. (5)
29—Hill is home for this article on
the Northern Territory. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 402


A
GUx-ss U^suXoCted
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
THE ONLY BATTERIES
CONTAINING
SILVIUM
the magical additive developed by CENTURY engineers ...
increasing the life of grids and plates, and ensuring
GREATER STARTING CAPACITY, and MORE POWER
. . . and the ONLY batteries with
YEARS
GUARANTEE
Put NEW PUNCH - MORE ENERGY - LONGER LIFE
into your home lighting plant with this
wonderful HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
LOOK AT THtSt MARVELLOUS FEATURES
1 CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CON-
TAINER—
You can see the acid level at a
glance.
2 GRAVITY indicators—
™ State of charge visible at all times.
No need for hydrometer.
2 SILVIUM—
***** The magical new additive giving
longer plate life and increased effi-
ciency.
4 glass insulation—
Ensures longer life and greater
power.
_
your garage
electrical dealer or stock and station agent,
write direct to the manufactui
fentwr
BATTERIES for cars, trucks, tractors, earth-moving equipment, motor cycles, radio
and home lighting, are made by CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD
Alexandria, N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED BY:—
m
P /
Am.
m
CENTURY Glass Insulated with SILVIUM auto-
motive batteries are available in 6-v. 11 plate, 6-v.
13 plate, 6-v. 15 plate, 6-v. 15 plate Ford, 6-v. 17 plate,
12-v. 7 plate, 12-v. 9 plate, 12-v. 11 plate, as well as
6-v. 25 plate and 12-v. 25 plate tractor types.
m
f <
■
;'dsSl
2 KM
£ . •’ :
V ‘
CENTURY'S Glass Insulated with
SBLVIUM Home Lighting Battery—type
PG227 is suitable for 12-volt, 24-volt,
32-volt, 56-volt and 110-volt installations. Its
capacity is 225 ampere hours and it’s GUARAN-
TEED 3 YEARS.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Kees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradlev
Bros. Ltd., 53-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Ave, Sydney.
Grmdey Ltd., 247-253 > Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Ply. Ltd.. Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macauly Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.
(Sole Concessionaires), 15 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
