

r
r-i
I
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
FROM AVROS TO JETS —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3996
Wednesday, September 12, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 315: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE DRAWING ROOM OF POWIS, FAMED WELSH CASTLE
POWIS CASTLE, in Montgomeryshire, has b'een inhabited without
interruption for seven hundred years and it is still one of the finest castles
in Wales. Tt is the ancestral home of the Earls of Powis, and is now
owned by the National Trust, and is open to the public at certain times.
The ancient fortress stands in a spacious well-wooded park high above
the valley of the River Severn, one mile from Welshpool and twenty miles
west of Shrewsbury. It is no longer a grim stronghold; fine terraced gardens,
laid out nearly 250 years ago, and now open to the public, cover the ground
which once upon a time trembled under the clash of opposing forces.
The castle faces south-east across the Severn, and in the early morning
it glows as red as a Devon cliff, for it is built of the rock from which it
springs—Silurian sandstone. Rock and castle, rising in terraces from a great
crag, are so closely interlocked that in places the natural cliff replaces the
wall below the red stone balcony. Powis is widely known as the Red Castle of
Wales: from its highest tower floats the blue standard of the bans of I owis.
English and Welsh stubbornly fought for Powis before it eventually came
into the hands of the Herbert family in the reign of Elizabeth 1. inei
descendants still live in the castle, and succeeding generations have transtoimed
this stout Border fortress into a noble mansion.
The interior is no less impressive than its outside appeaiance, and tne
principal apartments- are adorned with art treasures and features ot outstanding
craftsmanship. The Elizabethan Gallery still retains its original plaster ceiling
and at the head of the stairs is a long cross-hilted sword, w h j ch was ca uied by
the Lords of the Marches before the Tudor sovereigns. Othei magnificent
’rooms are the Oak Dining Room, the Royal Bedroom m cnm?o n and
and the Tapestry Drawing Room, illustrated here, 1 his attractive loom, 1
the library, has a beautiful painted ceiling, and heic can be . ugh
family portraits painted by such famous artists as Reynolds and Gainsboiou s n.


IHtOIvHIXTEIi, Uox 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, Jet us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
MR. MONKMAN'S MIRACLE
Reviewers are, of course, the last
people who should ever be asked to
review a book: they see too many of
them. And if there is one subject on
which the present reviewer thought he
had read enough for all time, it is the
Barrier Reef. The naturalists have
covered every inch of it; ten thousand
tourists have described it; and one has
even been there oneself and seen a
small purple fish and fifty beauteous
maidens playing ping-pong.
Which makes Mr. Noel Monkman’s
achievement in Escape to Adventure
(Angus and Robertson) nothing short
of miraculous: for here is another book
about the Barrier Reef, and it is
fascinating from the'front page of the
dustcover, where, looking rather like
Sir Thomas Beecham, Mr. Monkman
is swimming in a beard and an aqua-
lung, to the final illustration where he
is thoughtfully peering at his beard
through a microscope.
Perhaps it is because he is a master
of the microscope—as well as of the
camera and of lively descriptive prose
—that Mr. Monkman strikes so fresh *a
note. He tells us about fairy-flies,
which are so small that, unlike camels,
they can fly through the eye of a needle;
and which, apparently, swarm in the
air all round us. Somewhere on his
travels in north Queensland he drops
himself down the crater of an extinct
volcano—into a lake which he thought
was green grass—and finds it teeming
with life, which, originally borne by
the winds as the .first specks of life
on this planet may have drifted in on
the stellar dust, gives us not only a rare
picture of the beginnings of evolution
but, under his microscope, beauty of
color and form in infinitesimal creatures
that hardly seem to know whether they
are animals or flowers:—
But not all rotifers swim freely in
the water; some build gelatinous
transparent homes from Which they
protrude heads of exquisite loveli-
ness .... As I watched it slowly
relaxed. The head portion, or corona,
was like a fragile cup with a
scalloped rim, and from the mouth
of the cup gleamed what at first sight
appeared to be a long blue flame.
Actually this was a cluster of long
hairs finer than the finest gossamer,
and lying in parallel lines so closely
together that they formed a refrac-
tion-screen through which played the
scintillating blue light. The cuplike
corona expanded more widely, and
the blue changed to a delicate green.
Then, without warning, the creature
spread open like a gorgeous flower
blossoming ...
So ardent is Mr. Monkman in his
affection for these minutiae that, when
he is sitting on his Barrier Reef island
with a poisoned leg—caused by the
lacerations of coral when he was sport-
ing in a submarine tunnel—he is
enchanted to observe that there are
several distinct species of bacteria biting
him, and that one kind, which is likely
enough to cause him loss of the leg if
not of his life, is immune to penicillin
and sulpha-drugs. He has a trium-
phant photograph of these “extremely
minute primitive plants”; though one
must say it is not so attractive as his
view of “living bacteria in the saliva
from a healthy mouth”—these are
quite charming little creatures, and the
photograph looks like an adventure in
space-travel.
While the ordinary visitor to the
Reef may not have the privilege of
watching the bacteria multiplying in a
poisoned leg, the plankton is there for
all to see; and, if one has had a fair
ration of plankton, as soup in the Kon
Tiki book and as poetry in Rachel
Carson, the marriage of fiery worms
under Mr. Monkman’s microscope still
has power to astonish:—
Leaning overboard, I scooped
some of this glowing water up in my
hand, which then glowed as if it, too,
were dipped in liquid fire, and for
some time afterwards whatever I
touched glowed with a ghostly light
.... These daring threads were tiny
marine worms which now took on the
formidable proportions of fabled
sea-serpents... .1 turned out the light
in the laboratory and watched the
marriage ceremony by the creatures’
own light. As the females reached
the top speed of their wriggling they
emitted a cloud of luminous eggs
through which the male worms
dashed ejecting streams of sperms.
Under a higher-powered lens I
watched the minute sperms with
rapid wriggling of their long whip-
like tails swim to the luminous eggs
and fertilise them. Even though
they were but worms, 1 felt privileged
to be present at their nuptials.
But—the man who made more than
half the scenes in the film of “The
Sea Around Us” and has made many
Nature-films of his own, including one
of the animalculae he found down the
crater of the volcano —Mr. Monkman
is by no means always to be found
peering through a microscope. His
favorite weapon is the camera, and he
swims, boats or walks about with it
through a great part of “Escape to
Adventure” with, quite as effective
results as with his microscope.
When he is first met in the book, for
instance, he is floating up a river in the
far north, catching and photographing
crocodiles; and though, after as many
outback books as Barrier Reef books,
it sometimes seems that one can have
too many crocodiles, Mr. Monkman
instantly begins to be different: his
river is a slow tide of flowers, fallen
and flowing from the jungle higher up.
Two pages further on he is telling
us one of the more ingenious habits of
his friends —the crocodiles wait in the
river under a tree where flying-foxes
roost and catch them when they push
each other in. A few pages further,
after being eaten once or twice him-
self —more-or-less—by crocodiles he
has lassoed, he is giving us the most
absorbing information about the croc.’s
digestive powers—“So large is the
throat of a crocodile of this size that
it can swallow a man in one piece, and
so powerful are its digestive juices that
the portion already engulfed com-
mences to dissolve before the last part
is gulped down,” As a practical illus-
tration he feeds one of the beasts with
a camp-oven, which it devours with
relish: “The gleaming teeth crushed
it, apparently without effort, and small
pieces of cast-iron dripped from its
jaws.”
It would be unkind to human nature
to suggest that the essential appeal of
this book lies merely in the joyous
abandon with which Mr. Monkman
drops into volcanic craters, fills up his
leg with bacteria, falls over crocodiles’
tails, loses himself in submarine
tunnels, drowns himself in his diving-
suit, gets blown off his island by a
cyclone into an old iron vat used for
boiling-down turtles and, in general,
risks his neck. That is indeed part of
his charm. But it is only one aspect of
his gusto for life, and that is really
what fills the book with so much
interest.
Everything that swims, crawls, flies
or merely lies apparently inanimate like
stone is a thing of beauty and delight
to Mr. Monkman —a starfish eating an
oyster; the eel-like Fierasfer which
shelters so peculiarly in the body of
the beche-de-mer; the hermit-crab that
moves its decorative and protective
anemone from one shell to the other
when it is changing house; the male
Nephila spider making advances to its
gigantic and ferocious female; the
turtles that dug holes for their eggs
with their missing flippers; a new
species of insect found hiding in rock-
crevices; the muttonbirds that made
love to the teapot —and he has exactly
the right mixture of expert know-
ledge, humor and enthusiasm to copvey
it all to the reader in as vivid ,a style
as one could wish for.
One-man Kon Tiki
To attract the world’s attention by
following in the wake of the Kon Tiki
required an extraordinary set of special
conditions, and it will be seen from his
account of The Epic Voyage of the
Seven Lirfle Sisters (Hutchinson) that
William Willis had them: he was 61,
and he did it alone.
An American, but bom at Hamburg,
he seems to have spent a great deal
of his life at sea, steam and sail, and
for holidays sailed a small boat
dangerously in the Florida Keys—-he
had also ranched in Texas and
wandered about in Alaska, and been
cured of fever in French Guiana by
a witch-doctor who applied parrots to
the soles of his feet. These scenes
make part of the nightmare of his
lonely voyage.
Some old friend, who apparently
doesn’t want publicity, staked him;
and when he had cut his balsa-logs
and bound them with rope he began
a performance which • should astonish
any reader.
Having been shipped down to
Callao, so that he would have a free
run past the Galapagos islands, and
having been towed out to sea by a tug,
he had not gone very far when he
overbalanced getting his hook out of
a shark’s mouth, fell into the water,
ripping his hand on the shark’s teeth
as he went, and saw his raft sailing
away from him: he hauled himself
the necessary 200 feet back on his
fishing-line. • •
Next he was stricken by a terrifying
bellyache that racked him night and
day and made him half-unconscious
and near to death, and then he found
that his water-tanks had rusted
through at the seams and emptied
themselves, and was forced to drink
sea-wate e r. A fierce storm struck him
and blew out his mainsail, and he had
to salvage the bits and sew them
together again in the calm.
Later, the sail refused to set, and
Mr. Willis went up one of the tripod-
masts to fix it, lost his hold and fell
to the deck, knocking himself
unconscious. And his cat fell
over the side and Mr. Willis, a rope in
one hand, jumped over to haul the
cat home with the other —a kindness
which the cat repaid almost at the
end of the voyage by killing the parrot.
He made the 6400-6700 mile voyage
from Callao to Samoa in 115 days. He
passed Raroia, where the Kon Tiki
voyage ended, 4500 miles out of
Callao, in 74 days. It took the Kon
Tiki 102 days.
The book is very clear on everything
from the selection and lashing of balsa-
logs to the eating of raw dolphin-liver;
the flashbacks to his varied and active
past fill with excitement any gaps in
the exciting present; and the bravery
of the whole mitigates the occasional
embarrassing, addresses to the craft
with which he cheers his loneliness.
There are more than 40 plates of
photographs.
Prokosch on the Cenci
Like Pompilia in Browning’s “The
Ring and the Book,” Beatrice Cenci
in Shelley’s play on that other wicked
Italian family is a symbol of victimised
innocence; and in both cases there
must always be a suspicion that the
poets, trying to make their heroines of
marble, have not told the whole story.
Frederic Prokosch in his new novel
A Tale for Midnight (Seeker and War-
burg) has certainly made an attempt
to humanise Beatrice. Presumably as
a result of his researches in the Vatican
archives, which he mentions in a fore-
word, he submits that her allegation
of incest against her father was only a
last-minute defence contrived by her
lawyer and that her real motives for
the murder were partly revenge for
Cenci’s past cruelties, and, more
urgently, her terror at what that
tyrannical parent would do when he
discovered that she was with child by
the seneschal. Olimpio —a point not
mentioned by Shelley.
Mr. Prokosch, without ever succeed-
ing in making Beatrice quite real—
she remains Shelley’s proud white
statue —sets her down as a most ruth-
less female,’ plotting Cenci’s death, by
bandits, by poison and finally by
assassination, for years . . . because he
beat her and because, for reasons never
made clear (it was before the Olimpio
affair), he locked her and her mother
up as virtual prisoners in his gloomy
castle of Petrella.
What really was the truth of the
case? Mr. Prokosch himself seems to
be in two minds about it. He suggests
towards the end that the incest-story
was merely a lie of the lawyer’s; yet
earlier in the novel he hints that at
least some sort of attempt was made.
A mother and daughter, with the sons
also involved, brutally murdering the
father of the family, interrogated,
tortured and beheaded for the crime,
with attempts at poisoning and with
more than one kind of unnatural
passion suggested, all taking place
amongst an aristocratic family in the
gilded and turbulent setting of Renais-
sance Italy, it is one of the world’s
most haunting stories: and at this date
perhaps the best thing for Mr.
Prokosch to have done with it would
have been a biography of the Cencis,
a straightforward inquiry into the rights
and wrongs of the case ... the more
so because, unused to historical fiction,
he has not made a very good job of
the novel. It is colorful and intriguing
and may even capture Rafael Sabatini’s
wide public, but none of the characters,
not even Cenci —who should be a
“gift” for the novelist —comes con-
vincingly and roundly to life.
Rabindra Nath Tagore
The India League of Australia
(G.P.O. Box 4508, Sydney) is seeking,
for the Tagore Society, Delhi, copies
of any letters that may have been
written by Rabindra Nath Tagore to
Australians.
The Volcano. ..
by Geoffrey Dutton
[ln Memory, Squadron-Leader Geoffrey Tuck, A.F.C., R.A.A.F., d. 1955.]
Ten years ago this man and I
Were suddenly sentenced, to dig.
One moment, sleepy in the sun,
We turned onto our homeward run,
The Auster doing its sixty five,
Frail, noisy but in its way alive ,
The volcano s plume pointing our flight
Towards the strip almost in sight.
Then, stirred from the volcano’s beds
One nightmare blow drove both our
heads
Crack through the perspex roof. A spar
Had broken. We were back at war.
Implementing that decree
Volcano, jungle and the sea
Became one spinning disk of green
Where calm horizons should have been.
The aircraft with its broken wing
Was not a shot bird plummeting
But seed of sycamore descending
Down three thousand feet of air
To the tall green jungle waiting there.
Each seed gives birth to death as well
As life. We knew this as we fell,
In our mouths before this certain crash
The taste of our eventual ash.
Both stick and rudder were still there
But had lost the language of the air,
Our fingers and our feet were whole
But they no longer had control.
We had no parachutes. We had
Just long enough to be scared and sad.
A high tree caught our one good wing
And let us like an anchor swing
Down softly through a leafy sea
To moor in green obscurity.
No petrol caught. No bones were broken.
We were reprieved. But who had spoken
So softly to triumphant death ?
Who gave us back the air for breath ?
What jest or purpose could there be
In this ? Miracle or morality ?
Today I hear that he is dead.
Not violently, but in a bed,
Aged thirtythree, of slow disease
Less gentle than the jungle’s trees.
The nightmare in that burning mountain
Has risen again. The ashy fountain
Comes shrouding down on his far room
While I still wait the rising plume.
Here it is a London Sunday,
If there were a sky it would be grey,
Slates drip like diamonds in coal,
The curling hyacinths unroll,
A sparrow pecks at sodden bread,
And no one cares that he is dead,
A bugler is playing, invisible
To me, incomprehensible
To him the memories that these walls
Force back upon his bugle calls.
In his room he is practising
The Last Post. Please, play anything
But that, so studiously sad.
Some flaws in life may send us mad,
And too much health may make us sick,
But death was born a lunatic.


<&
is
HOMEanJ GARDEN TlMc
i-'ii.i
m
':■. its.
'
.
3^
•W ; •
1
*r'?
■o
M
.
:
v,.
w
■
* ■■'
V; ■
S''-/
* N%
11l
' J&ses^
PC
Bil
iiii
■
f -V
■
m
mm
shubs
ill
♦
■
m
■
g:,rfgpr--
H
ilfl
m
f
%
a
"
s»i
Ml
m
IS®
Silt
;■
So deposit on power mowers
Now with summer coming on, most hard working dads find it hard to go to the beach and keep the lawns
in perfect condition. But it’s easy if you cut your grass (and time) with power! A.H’s have one of the
largest range of power mowers in Sydney—and you don’t need a penny to buy if you use our easy terms.
“Huskee” 18in., 125 cc petrol engine. £54/18/-, 7/6 wkly.
“Crowe,” J.A.P. engine, 18in. cut. At £63 or 8/4 wkly.
“Ransome’s Minor” 12in. cut, 1 h.p. £99, or 13/6 wkly.
“Green’s Min. cut, 1 h.p. engine. £lO5 or 13/4 weekly.
“Austral Villiers” Min. cut, at £lO3/15/- or 11/7 wkly.
“Lawn Prince” 16in. cut, Vill. engine. £69/9/6, 9/2 wkly.
“Grassmaster” Min. cut, J.A.P. engine. £62/7/9, 8/3 wk.
“Pope” 15in. cut, J.A.P. engine. £57/15/- or 7/9 wkly.
“Super Merc’’ 12in., 4 h.p. motor. £43/13/- or 6/4 wkly.
“T.A.D.” 16in. cut, Villiers engine. £59/18/-, 7/11 wkly.
“Webb” Electric, 12in. cut. Price £65/9/6 or 8/8 wkly.
“Lawnmaster” 14in., 1 h.p. motor. £69/10/- or 9/2 wkly.
“Morrison” petrol, 16in. cut. At £97/10/- or 12/10 wkly.
“Hornet” Rota Chief petrol mower. £57/15/-, 7/8 wkly.
“Crowe” roller type, 14in. cut. £B7/10/6 or 11/4 wkly.
“Tecnico” electric mower, 12in. cut. £4O/19/-, 5/4 wkly.
GARDENING DEPT., 4th FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.O.
U 'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
Anthony Borderns’


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3996
Wednesday, September 12, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971. '
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
TAXATION AND STABILITY
SPRING blossom is coming out in Canberra, but
the new season has not set the blood of politicians
coursing fiercely in their veins. It is generally agreed
that the session, only a week old, already is nearly
dead. The debates in the House of Representatives
are for the most part a sea of platitude. Dr.
Evatt, in his Yarra-bank-like speech on the Budget,
said nothing that has not been said by “Labor”
spruikers for a decade-and-a-half past. His was a
steady drone of cliches and platitudes, all instinct
with a hopeless yearning for the day when power
would be unified in the Commonwealth, and
“Labor,” with a majority, would be able to imple-
ment the ideals of Garden-Communism. He refused
to acknowledge that anything could be done to
deal with inflation under any other policy; ignored
the responsibilities of the States and of individuals
to contribute to an attempt to safeguard the
economy.
He has become the complete class-war leader,
and the Government treats his ranting as something
belonging to another world with which it can have
no concern.
The one voice last week which has uttered any
suggestions off the beaten track is that of Sir Earle
Page, who is the eldest statesman of the Parlia-
ment. His speech came like a breath of fresh air,
both because it broke ground away from the
accepted shibboleths and because it tended to show
consideration for the milking-herd of the Govern-
ment, the despised taxpayers.
Page says that the crisis caused by the balance-
of-payments situation, accentuated by local infla-
tion, is “rendered more acute by the inextricable
tangle into which Federal and State finances have
been drawn, and the uncoordinated system of
wage-fixing by divergent arbitration-systems, which
militant unions defy and sabotage”—factors which
“cause incalculable waste in production at a time
when the cure for the balance-of-payments crisis and
inflation must come from a more competitive pro-
duction of an increased volume of goods by
Australia which will sell readily in both home and
overseas markets.”
* This “entails reducing our cost of production.”
It is an axiom which “The Bulletin” and
others have repeated again and again with
emphasis, but it sounds novel and daring in the
mouth of a Federal politician, especially when it
is linked with a practical discussion of the
unpleasant truths of the situation and of remedies.
Page said that “the most vulnerable point”
of the Budgets, States and Commonwealth, was
excessive taxation derived from current revenue,
this “largely imposed to meet the demands of
immense State and Federal capital expenditures.”
The system, he said, paradoxically starved import-
ant and essential services like the railways, tele-
phones, etc., which tried to meet their difficulties
by increased charges or lessened services. Common-
sense business recognised that some long-term and
efficient arrangement was necessary and appropriate
to provide capital requirements, and if this were
recognised and acted upon the way to restoration
of income-taxing powers —and the responsibility
to the taxpayers for finance to the States —would
be much simpler.
The doctor remarked that the saving of even
half the yearly capital expenditure from revenue
must have a marked effect on the economy. He
advocates the replacement of the present system by
a new one of self-liquidating public works
conducted under franchise or charter. (He could
not possibly, of course, recommend the use of
bank-credit to fill a Budget deficit, even on capital
account, in times like the present.)
This, of course, would not further the cause
of Socialism to which “Labor” is now completely
devoted, and by which Liberal Governments appear
to be mesmerised under the influence of the kind
of civil servants bequeathed to them by “Labor”
administrations.
He points out that under present State
methods, State and Federal imposts are clogging
commerce to the point of immobility, and cites as
a typical instance of what is happening that the
railway-freight per 100 super-feet of timber from
Grafton to Sydney has risen nearly eightfold, from
4s. 6d. to 365., since 1940, and royalties on timber
from Is. to 13s. —imposts on costs and rents which
have priced timber from northern N.S.W. out of
the Sydney market, compelling the producers to
take it to Brisbane by road, so that “the savage
railway freight-rates defeat themselves.”
Other instances he quotes are the effects of
the new N. S. Wales land-tax, more than ten times
as severe in some cases as the tax which the Federal
Government abandoned five years ago, and the
fact that while differential rail-freights, were
imposed to destroy coastal shipping —which is now
nearly ruined —rail-freights with the waning of
competition are rising arbitrarily with the dire effects
such as are apparent in the North Coast timber-
trade. Similarly, the confiscation of electricity
public-utilities, to prevent them competing with
Government concerns, is followed by rising tax
in the form of charges on the public and the
shrinkage in time of electricity usage.
Additional unseen taxes are imposed through
the habit of annual budgeting for long-term public
works that are never finished, so that both interest
and capital are lost —Sandy Hollow-Maryvale rail-
way, Keepit and Gknbawn Dams are shattering
examples.
These burdens are outside those built up by
the failure of State Governments to control union
sabotage, as exemplified by such incidents as the
one-man-bus dispute in N. S. Wales.
On the Federal side, Dr. Page condemns the
spasmodic impost of import-restrictions, causing
dislocation of long-established business-connections
overseas. He says that one effect of complete
embargoes has invariably been the starting-up of
exotic industries which either persist at unnatural
cost to the public or are presently destroyed by
more efficient competitors. Also, interest-charges
increase and are passed on ultimately through the
manufacturer to the consumer, as well as forming
an extra burden on the exporter in competitive
world markets.
Sir Earle Page holds that the whole policy is
a clog on development and provides no permanent
cure; that our wage-adjustment system is “too
inflexible and too slow,” and that nationalisation
of business enterprises forces Governments into
excessive borrowing both locally and overseas,
while depriving private industry of a healthy flow
of private capital, as well as “the import of
technical know-how” indispensable to aid local
savings in the developmental programme.
It is pointed out that the remedies which the
former Treasurer advocates are not novel. He
quotes Mr. Colin Clark in a lecture in 1938 as
pointing out the “astonishing spurt given to Aus-
tralian productivity between 1920 and 1927,” a
period when “production per head in Australia was
expanding at the rate of 91 per cent, per decade,
nearly a record, and beaten only by that of Japan.”
It was achieved, according to Dr. Page, who was
Treasurer for most of the period, by stimulating
“personal incentive by substantial reductions in
direct taxation —no less than 70 per cent, in five
years,” and a policy of obtaining assistance from
overseas which enabled payment for developing
amenities as they were used.
There seems to be a fixed conviction in Liberal
policy that when once “Labor” lays down a red line
Liberal Governments must put their beaks down
on it and follow it slavishly to the precipice—the
point at which the law of diminishing returns
operates. It is time that Liberal Governments
snapped out of their state of mesmerism and began
to patronise the system of free enterprise to which
they give lip-service.
Too High Already
CITIZENS of New South Wales, and of Sydney in
particular, have become so inured to price-rises—
the most recent as well as the most savage being
the huge frejghts-and-fares slug dealt out to them
at the beginning of July—that they are almost
immune to such shocks. Sydney folk pay more for
their potatoes, milk, bread and butter than their
fellow-Australians in other capital cities without
raising more than token objections. And token
objections don’t knock so much as a farthing off
the pride, especially when the commodity in ques-
tion is under the control of a Government board or
commission. If the Sydney County Council goes
ahead this week with its projected increase in the
price of electricity the price-punchdrunk com-
munity will groggily register a dazed awareness of
the new blow and then fumble in its pockets for
the money.
When the proposed rise was mentioned in the
N. S. Wales Assembly last' week the Minister for
Local Government said he wouldn’t interfere in the
matter. That means that if the rise comes it will
have the tacit approval of the Cahill Government
and that no “Labor” member will oppose it. Yet
the increase is of the order of twenty per cent. It
is not hard to imagine the storm of indignation that
a private concern would bring upon itself from
“Labor” members if it increased its prices by
one-fifth.
Except for the fact that everything in N. S.
Wales appears to be dearer than anywhere else,
there seems to be no reason at all for such a rise in
the cost of power. The Sydney County Council, of
course, has an explanation. It passes the buck to
the N. S. Wales Electricity Commission, complain-
ing that its charges for bulk electricity are too high
and that disproportionate rates between peak and
off-peak periods favor the domestic user unduly
and penalise industrial and commercial customers.
As a result of this, it claims there has been a
Serious decline in industrial-power consumption. To
this the chairman of the Electricity Commission
replies that he cannot see how the commission s
charges can possibly necessitate such an increase,
as the average unit charge for electricity supplied
by the commission to the councils last year was
slightly lower than in the previous year. The bulk
tariff is, indeed, lower than it was in 1953. As to
the alleged falling-off in demand, the chairman says
the commission sold the Sydney County Council
8 per cent, more power in 1955-56 than in 1954-55.
Customers are not greatly concerned whether
the power is controlled by one or two authorities
before it reaches their premises, but they are
entitled to expect that the system adopted will be
the one which gives the most efficient service at the
fairest price. Since 1950, when it took over the
operations of the four main electricity-producing
authorities in the State, the N. S. Wales Electricity
Commission has been responsible for the inter-
connected system of power-stations and the network
of high-voltage transmission-lines which now serve
95 per cent, of the State. It does not, in general,
deal direct with the public, but sells power in bulk
to the various distributing authorities, the tramways
and railways and to certain large industrial under-
takings. Retail sales to the public are handled by
the distributing authorities —shire and municipal
councils or electricity-county councils, which
consist of groups of councils,, with the Sydney
County Council the most important example.
The current policy of the commission is to
site all new power-stations at or close to coalfields
and transmit the power by high-voltage lines to
the places where it is required. This reverses the
earlier practice of putting the stations near the
load-centres and taking the coal to them by rail or
sea. Before World War II the only sizeable power-
station outside the metropolitan area was at Zara-
street, Newcastle, and the chief sources of power
were Bunnerong, White Bay, Pyrmont and Ultimo.
Since the war major extensions have been made
to these stations, greatly increasing their output.
At the same time the policy of taking the plant
to the mine has resulted in the building of power-
stations at Wallerawang, on the western coalfield
(ultimate capacity 240,000 kw.), Tallawarra, on the
southern field (320,000 kw.), and Lake Macquarie
(330,000 kw.). The ultimate' effect of the saving
in haulage should be cheaper power, and the hydro-
electric stations at Hume, Warragamba and Guthega
should also help in this direction when completed.
Of the coal-powered stations, Tallawarra is already
producing electricity more cheaply than any of the
metropolitan plants, old or new, and during the
current year Lake Macquarie and Wallerawang will
also be feeding power into the interconnected
system.
There seems to be no doubt that N. S. Wales
should be able to produce power more cheaply
than the other Australian States. It has ample
supplies of easily accessible coal of first-rate quality
and a large (and increasing) percentage of its
generating plant is of modern design. Yet from two
sources at least in recent weeks have come allega-
tions that the rates charged are higher than they
should be. The Sydney County Council complaint
is that because the commission charges it too much
for bulk electricity some of its industrial customers
are finding it cheaper to produce their own power
from diesel or other plants. If this is true it is an
extraordinary indictment of either the commission
or the County Council or both. If the State
producing and distributing authorities cannot, with
all the resources they have at their disposal, supply
power to individual concerns more cheaply than
those customers can produce it for themselves then
it is time their whole organisation was thoroughly
overhauled.
The second charge was made by J. G. Hurley,
president of the Chamber of Manufactures of
N. S. Wales, who claimed that Sydney industrialists
were at a disadvantage in comparison with those of
Melbourne in the matter of power-costs. He spoke
of one firm, operating precisely similar plants in
Sydney and Melbourne. The price of power supplied
to the Sydney works had increased by 335 per cent,
since 1946 as against 237 per cent, in Melbourne
over the same period. A factory which in Sydney
would pay 4.12 d. per kwh, would be charged only
2.92 d. per kwh. for the same service in Melbourne.
In the case of some of the bigger consumers this
meant as much as £90,000 difference in their fuel-
bill. Such a disparity could be the deciding factor
determining whether a new undertaking went to
N.S.W. or Victoria. It could even influence an
N.S.W. concern into opening a Melbourne branch
instead of extending its Sydney plant. From the
Australian standpoint there would be nothing wrong
with that, but it is a thought no N.S.W. Govern-
ment can consider without disquiet. For this reason,
if for no more lofty motive, the Cahills should
view with profound alarm any move for a further
increase in the cost of electric-power.


ALONG INFLATION-AVENUE
“It’s that confounded cat which causes all the commotion in this street, Eddie.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Suez Odds
The members of the Menzies committee
have one satisfaction—if they have failed
at Cairo, Mr. Menzies from the start
knew that the chances were ten-to-one
against success.
The mind of Nasser (and/or Russia)
was obdurate from the outset. The
Russians have obviously offered tull
backing to an Arab war which would
dislocate Western oil-supplies, and are
doing their best to start one.
Moscow Radio, not to mention
Khrushchev —who, it appears from fhe
Times” report of the function at which
he spoke, was more than half-seas-over
and in a contemptuous mood in which
he deliberately insulted the British
Ambassador—promised “volunteers” if
such a war should break-out. And
“Pravda” has repeated the threat that
any move on Egypt by the British and
French might lead to a flare-up through-
out the Near and Middle East.
The Eighteen Nations Committee
apparently takes it for granted that it
has finished its work and itself is full
of differences about future procedure.
The committee is reported to be divided
about what procedure should follow
failure—Sweden favors taking the matter
to the United Nations, which would
delight Moscow.
Meanwhile, British and French forces
have been piling-up in Cyprus, and other
large forces are ready to move. Possibly
they may move —the Arabs might not
be so ready for war if Nasser were
overthrown and brought to heel early, as,
on his Israeli war form, he almost
certainly would be unless he obtains
large numbers of his Russian “volun-
teers,” and that quickly.
Meanwhile, despite its fireworks-
belligerence, the Egyptian position regard-
ing the canal is not very happy. The
Canal Company merely has to tell its
pilots to leave and it will become unwork-
able. The advertisements calling for
pilots throughout the world have not been
very successful. Except from Italy, there
have been few applications. The Inter-
national Organisation of Mates and
Pilots centred in the United States has
announced that “in our opinion accept-
ance of such jobs would be contrary to
the best interests of the United States.”
Even if pilots are obtained, a very
large proportion of them will be such
that no shipping company will be ready
to trust its vessels to them.
If Egypt attempts to keep the
company’s pilots by force and make them
work, much of the opposition to possible
British-French military action would
disappear.
Over the weekend the Egyptians placed
a large landing-craft in the canal with
the obvious intention of sinking it across
the fairway to prevent all traffic in the
event of British-French action.
The whole affair is reaching crisis-
point. With another Government in
power more firm than the present one in
Britain it might have been reached before.
But the Edens love to talk things out.
The United States is most concerned
with having the canal steadily running,
but its stake is a comparatively small one
beside that of Britain and France.
The coming week should bring a
clearer view of the possibilities. The
British Parliament has been called to-
gether six weeks before the end of the
summer recess. And this should lead at
last to a crystallisation of British opinion
as to what must be done.
Please Control Us!
“Stromlo”: e Few “Labor” delusions
ever disappear, but the toughest of the
lot is a belief that we all want to be
“controlled,” for our own good and
benefit, and for the augmenting of the
regiments of public servants. (A sideline,
of course, is that it would mean happy
days again for the blackmarketeers; but
perhaps “Labor” hopes that they would
contribute, gratefully and handsomely, to
party funds).
The sole and simple solution which
the Opposition offers for inflation and
the current economic strains is a return
to price-control and a handing-over by
the States or the voters of more “powers”
to the Commonwealth.
This is what Dr. Evatt proposed, with
apparent seriousness, in the Budget
debate, in which he moved censure of the
Government. He talked about the
“injustices” suffered by the “defenceless
section of the community,” about the
profits of the big corporations, and then
went on to describe how Chifley, faced
with the beginnings of inflation, had gone
to the people asking for the powers
needed to check it. Those powers had
been refused, but they were more neces-
sary today to meet “the desperate situa-
tion we are in.”
Becoming rhetorical, but no more prac-
tical, he asked, “What is the national
plan?” but did not pause for a reply.
There was no reference to the need for
harder work, for more productivity, for
determined slashing of the number of
the civil services, Federal and State, to
release more workers for useful
industries. Instead, there was the tongue-,
in-cheek offer of help for a referendum
to establish controls if the States were
unwilling to come into line —as Evatt
knows very well they are. He knows
also that the Menzies Government is
pledged to abolition of controls, although
it employs some, including the dangerous
one of import-licensing, as measures of
emergency.
In other words, his gesture was aimed
at half-wits who may be tempted to
believe the siren-song that all will be
well if everything is run from Canberra
again. He was reminded later by Harold
Holt that the Government is already
dealing with inflation as part of its
“national plan,” and that its policy is
to remove the causes which led to the
imposition of, or need for, controls. This,
however, will never appeal to “Labor,”
which seems to believe that its own
political future is bound inseparably with
unified control of the whole nation.
Perhaps that estimate is true. If it is,
then “Labor’s” hopes of office are as
remote as the possibility that the Aus-
tralian people in peace-time will hand
over to the politicians and bureaucrats of
Canberra the powers over wages, prices,
investments, banking and all the rest
which so far they have steadfastly refused
to do.
Into Battle
The “Labor” party is quickly reaching
the stage of open, combat within its ranks.
The so-called A.L.P. executive in office
in N. S. Wales hopes to hold-over the
decision till next June.
Meantime its tactics are ruthlessly Com-
munist: make the branches show where
they stand and then dissolve the ones that
are inconvenient to have in the party. It
is a monstrous proceeding. No account
is taken of the views of branch majorities.
At Neutral Bay, when 38 out of 47
members agreed to hear Alan Manning,
recently expelled, the chairman simply
walked out with the books so that the
meeting couldn’t be held. But this sort
of thing is not preventing either the
branches or the moderate unions from
acting. Wagga branch voted dead against
the central executive last week, and is in
process of being dealt with. At Canberra,
where Dr. Evatt is trying to pressurise
the branch, with the aid of Dr. Burton,
there is another disturbance. Through-
out the country and in the suburbs of
Sydney the same sort of thing is going on.
The phalanx of the N.S.W. unions
siding with the anti-Communists has
not been organised so fully as in Vic-
toria, where 16 unions appear to have
declared themselves for anti-Communism.
But there will be strong backing for the
ousting of the present cuckoos in the
nest.
The plan of the organisers of the Anti-
Communist side —who are far from all
being “Groupers”—is to force a confer-
ence at the end of October. And if that
conference is not called by the A.L.P.
executive it will probably be called any-
way. If it meets in this way, on a rank-
and-file basis, it seems certain that the
party will split.
Mr. Gair’s pledge in Queensland to
move black wool —there are 70,000 bales
piled up in the stores because of the
ban —will widen the split in Queensland.
It is about time that servile Administra-
tion acted, since the dispute over nothing
has been in existence for nine months.
Any Government worth its salt would
have acted months ago.
The main question is what Mr. Gair’s
pledge is worth. And whether he can
carry it out. But the very fact of his
having given it will whittle away a little
more of his influence with the A.W.U.,
the king union of the north, and certainly
will have political effects.
The suggestion has been made that
troops should be used on the wharves,
but it is to be hoped that that can be
avoided, since it would bind the unions
together and make for general resistance.
However, the whole “Labor” position,
political and industrial, is deplorable. The
Federal Opposition is now divided into
caves, each group anxious to cut the
political throats of the members of other
caves.
Liberals at Work
“D”: Times change. You wouldn’t
expect to find any of the Fat Men, who
used to be standard, sinister figures in the
cartoons of Leftist artists in the twenties,
at a State Liberal gathering today ; but
you would have been surprised pleasantly,
unless you’d been before, at the Victorian
Liberal Council meeting at Melbourne
Assembly Hall.
The number of women was surprising.
There were at least as many as there were
men ; and there were more men in their
thirties and forties than in the sixties
and seventies. The women were neither
too young nor too old. They were de-
termined to have their say, and they said
it as succinctly as the men. All the
accents were Australian, as they ought to
be, and, in fact, the councillors looked
like a lunch-hour crowd brought in off
Collins-street.
The delegates were satiric on the sub-
ject of Federal failure in choking infla-
tion, although a big press-table was
keenly at work ; and if Sir Arthur had
strolled in he would not have heard any-
thing less fiery about himself than he
would at a Trades Hall Council meeting.
Prices dominated the council proceed-
ings, but eventually the more tempera-
mental resolutions were cooled-down to
an omnibus motion calling for another
Premiers’ conference as soon as the
Prime Minister returns. The reminder of
the return of the Prime Minister had a
soothing effect on the council, which was
remarkable, considering that the Prime
Minister is so uninterested in money and
material possessions and so derisive about
those who are abnormally so.
Still, it was clear the Liberals had gone
a long way from the stuffy days when a
precious few old-timers in the National
Federation and National Union decided
non-Labor politics. It looked like healthy
and sincere democracy on the job.
Get Up and Go!
In many respects Henry Bolte’s team is
the best non-“ Labor” Government Vic-
toria has had in living memory. (It
would not have to be very talented, of
course, to be better than some of them,
especially those of the ’thirties.) One of
the chief reasons for this is the leadership
of the Premier, and, to a lesser extent,
his deputy, Chief-Secretary Rylah.
They are swift and decisive in action —
and resolute, too, as Sir Arthur Fadden
has found recently—especially in dealing
with crime, both in detection and pre-
vention. This is in marked contrast with
their predecessors in Spring-street. Vic-
torian “Labor” always has eschewed
altering Acts dealing with crime, and the
Country party, whether or not it felt it,
has indicated indifference, no doubt
because most crime occurs in Melbourne,
and therefore is of no importance.
It is characteristic of the forthright
Premier that he should abhor the wretched
indeterminate sentences that courts were
empowered to impose on adults and
children alike, and one of the first acts
of his Administration was to abolish them
for adults under the Penal Reform Act,
passed last December. The Act has not
been proclaimed because of the difficulty
in finding suitable probation-officers.
Rylah will also bring forward a bill in
the current session to end indeterminate
sentences for children. At present they
are released from detention on an official
string, giving them not an awareness of
a new start, but an understandable
grudge against a withholding of free
citizenship. Only officials like it.
The Government has been generous at
the same time to Selwyn Porter, the Com-
missioner of Police, in his quiet reforms
at Russell-street and beyond, to increase
police skill in crime-detection. For the
first time the State will have an official
Government pathologist, Dr. Keith
Bowden, with a paid deputy, Dr. J.
Birrell; and also Dr. Norman McCallum,
a former policeman now a Doctor of
Science, to act in liaison between the
Police Department the University.
Victorians are finding it refreshing to
have a Government more interested in
what is actually happening in day-to-day
life than in “policy” or doctrine.
Brown-coal Man
It’s a wonderful spring in Melbourne for
Roland Andrews, the wide-awake scientist
who heads the Gas and Fuel Corporation.
Only a handful of people in Australia
have been admitted to the Council of the
Fuel Institute in London, and he’s just
been made a Fellow.
The learned Londoners were just a
jump ahead of Dr. Andrews’s realisation
of a life-dream —lucky fellow —because
the trial-runs of gas made from brown-
coal at Morwell and pumped to Mel-
bourne will be made in a week or two;
and before the end of the year, no doubt,
Melbourne dinners will be cooked with it.
Andrews was a Sydney Tech, and Syd-
ney Uni. scholar, put in a few years with
8.H.P., returned to the Tech, as a teacher,
went to the U.S., and became Melbourne
Gas Co.’s chief chemist in 1927. In a year
or two he had decided to make his chief
work the gasification of the brown-coal
in the Latrobe Valley.
He was frustrated during the war, but
went to Germany soon after to see
schemes in'operation. As late as 1948 he
still had to convince a meeting of all-
party Parliamentarians he wasn’t dream-
ing, and when the Government bought a
Lurgi plant for him, his friends say, he
spent his weekends at Morwell walking
around it with an irrepressible smile.
"So Much for Sydney!"
Commenting on So Much for Sydney!, a
booklet written by John E. Webb, a
former editor of The Bulletin, a “Sun-
Herald” columnist described it as a hymn
of hate against Sydney, and, taking his
cue from the cover-design, which depicts
a mythical figure throwing mud at the
Quay railway-tunnel, rebuked the author
for “throwing all mud and no bouquets
at the city.”
Webb is not throwing mud at Sydney.
He is drawing the attention of Sydney-
siders to the mud that besmirches their
city. In effect, he is challenging them to
wash it off. He presents his case with
the vigor and hardhitting directness that
was the hallmark of the shoals of articles
he wrote for The Bulletin (in particular,
one on Lang in the 1930’5) before he
retired from the editorship eight years
ago. .
Sydney is the victim, not the villain,
of the piece. Its people, though
admonished for having lost their manners
and for devoting too much of their timp
to booze and betting (tastes encouraged
by their Government and pandered to
by their press and radio) are not accused
of having fouled their nest. That has
been done by “Labor” politicians, intent
on feathering their own.
The author points out the sobering
fact that, although Sydney gave the
Commonwealth five of its first seven
Prime Ministers, it has not been asked
to supply one in the past 40 years Mel-
bourne in that time has supplied three,
with the near-certainty of a fourth should
Menzies decide to step-down —and that
the present Federal “senior” Cabinet of
12 contains only one Sydney M.H.R.,
and he is due to resign from it and
Parliament any day:
If the like can be imagined as happen-
ing when Hughes was alive it would have
been fiercely resented: but Sydney doesn t
resent anything nowadays, except perhaps,
the nobbling of a favorite. Probably there
is no conscious effort in any quarter to
humiliate Sydney; but to the Sydney patnot,
if any such person survives, the refusal or
the Rest of Australia to accept Sydney
leadership must be painfully evident.
Webb places the beginning of the
decline back in Lang’s time, the eia
which gave N. S. Wales a State lottery,
tin-hares, J. J. Cahill (Lang’s Govern-
ment Whip), Eddie Ward and Dr. Eyatt.
its full fruition under the McGirr-Canili
regime when the joke about App mt
Maloney” has ceased “to have any
jocular significance, except, perhaps, tor
the Maloneys and their patrons.. . .It is
applied to positions great and small and
in between.” .
Sydney, as Webb sees it today, is
city in which a “Labor” Government,
15 years in office, gives every encourage-
ment to gambling, sport and drink, but
o Continued on next page)
"Brigalow”
AS A BOOK
“The Bulletin” has been showered
with congratulations for publishing
Brigalow in serial form; and “The
Bulletin,” in turn, bows and dips
its lid to the author, R. S. Porteous.
for his authentic and delightful
novel of the Queensland cattle-
country.
Usually the congratulations are
accompanied by the question: “Is
Brigalow to be published in book-
form?”
Yes, it is. Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, hope to have it available
between covers early next year.


is incapable of tackling the problems of
transport, housing, schools and hospitals:
It is a great place for politicians and their
hangers-on; for trade-union bosses; for
Communist and other strike-promoters;
for breweries, one of which owns over a
thousand pubs, and which, with another
company, possesses more political power,
ingloriously submitted to, than the brewing
interest in any other British Commonwealth
city; for bookmakers and all manner of
professional “sports.” A great place for go-
getters, aldermen who live famously with-
out any visible means of support and
Government employees: among these,
members of food-control boards which fix
siege prices for necessities even when they
are in oversupply; for example, butter,
milk, eggs and potatoes.
The A.L.P., he says, has long ceased to
be a party of reform; it has “skittled all
the things it used to stand for.”
Surrendered to a coarse materialism,
“Labor” has taught its people to become
materialists, easy-money boys, and to con-
tinue to give it place and pay for what
they can get out of it, by dangerous forms
of pressure if they think the pressure
• should be applied....
When Webb gets down to details, many
readers may consider that he has been
unfortunate in some of his personal con-
tacts with ordinary Sydney people. But
he certainly makes out a strong case as
to the extent to which the example of
their “Labor” rulers has corrupted the
manners and outlook of Sydneysiders and
debased their standards of conduct.
POLITICAL POINTS
Pity the motorist's distress
When his Holden or De Soto
Is taken off without redress
By the Council, and in towtow!
N.S.W. Y.
© e
Gair says that the Government leader,
Cabinet and the members of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party had an obligation
to stand by arbitration. If that is so
they have been doing their duty nobly
in the shearing dispute—they’ve done
nothing else but stand-by for the last eight
months. But a lot of folk would like
to know when we may expect the next
signal on the engine-room telegraph—
‘•Slow Ahead” from Capain Gair or “Full
Astern” from Pilot Bukowski.
• @
At question-time in the Senate on Sep-
tember 4 Senator McKenna, Leader of
the Opposition in the Senate, pleasantly
surprised and slightly embarrassed Senator
O’Sullivan by asking him whether he was
aware that a special significance attached
to September 2. “Does he know that on
that date he established a new Parlia-
mentary record? Does he know that on
that date he achieved the distinction of
serving the longest continuous term in
the Senate as the Leader of the Govern-
ment?” He offered Senator O’Sullivan
the congratulations of the Opposition
on his record —six years, eight months and
fourteen days. From the party viewpoint,
he said, the only consolation was that the
end of the life of the Government was
that much nearer. Senator O’Sullivan
blushingly, and suitably, replied.
« ®
Evatt’s offer to support any Govern-
ment move for a referendum to give the
Federal Parliament power over prices,
wages, capital-issues and interest-rates
would have been a very magnanimous
one if the Government had been propos-
ing such a move and he had in the past
been against it. The truth is, of course,
that he knows Menzies and Fadden have
not the slightest intention of seeking such
powers, which are the very ones which
Evatt, as “Labor” Attorney-General,
twice tried unsuccessfully to induce the
people of Australia to trust him with.
Evatt’s offer really amounts to this:
Adopt my financial policy and I’ll support
you.
• •
In a fiery statement shortly after his
seizure of the Suez Canal Nasser spoke
of it as being “built on the lifeblood of
120,000 Egyptians who died during its
construction.” The figure has been
quoted by several papers since then, but
there doesn’t seem to have been any
attempt to find the authority for it. There
is one, however, but he lived a long time
before de Lesseps. According to the
Encyclopcedia Britannica : —
Pharaoh Necho (609 b.c.) began to build
another canal, but it was never completed—
according to Herodotus, 120,000 men
perished in the undertaking.
On evidence of similar antiquity Nasser
could probably claim compensation
through the International Court of Justice
for the chariots and horsemen lost in the
Red Sea.
• ©
Additional evidence of the efficacy of
myxomatosis (if any is needed) is given by
the figures for exports of rabbitskins in
1954-55. Total for the year was
4,580,0001b., less than one-third of the
quantity exported in 1950-51.
• •
Coinciding with the near approach of
Mars, Canberra has decided that control
of Mt. Stromlo Observatory should be
transferred from the Department of the
Interior to the Australian National Uni-
versity. The transfer will include the
time-service, the “pips” which are heard
on the radio every hour. The ionospheric
prediction service, however, will remain
with the department.
© 0
There are 12 tram-depots in Melbourne.
In one, Malvern, there are 362 unionists.
A stopwork meeting there was attended
by 55. Thirty-five voted for a stoppage
on Saturdays over Saturday rosters, and
20 opposed them. (The stoppages have
since fizzled out.) Result: No trams on
four main lines on two Saturdays when
most male workers shop and go to sports,
including the football finals. Double-
edged democracy in the unions, eh?
« «
How is the Federal joint committee on
the Constitution getting on with its job?
Not too well, if Playford’s any judge.
He told Opposition-leader O’Halloran in
the S.A. Assembly that it was function-
ing in a most haphazard manner, if it
was functioning at all. Playford com-
plained that the committee wasn’t really
trying to determine which powers should
be in the hands of the Commonwealth
and which should be exercised by the
States. It was merely attempting to find
means of avoiding a deadlocked Senate
—“a minor political problem.”
• o
After N.S.W. Housing Minister Landa,
speaking in the Budget debate, had said
that the rate of homebuilding in N. S.
Wales had declined, Davis Hughes,
THE CANALS OF MARS
No. 1—Suez
Country-party member for Armidale,
quoted a few figures on Government
homebuilding activities in the various
States. He said that since the war these
bodies had the following record: N.S.W.,
40,320 houses; Victoria, 31,654; S.A.,
25,059 ; Queensland, 16,068 ; Westralia,
15,842 ; Tasmania, 7000. In proportion
to population S.A., with 3050 homes built
for every 100,000 of population, easily
led the way. N. S. Wales, with 1152 per
100,000, was a bad last.
• •
“Hans Hard”: My wife tells me that
one of her chores at high school was to
transcribe pages of the S.A. “Hansard”
into shorthand. I hope Queensland
teachers aren’t dishing out their State
“Hansard” for a like purpose. I’d hate to
have a daughter of mine putting this into
neat wriggles and curls:
Mr. Aikens : As a matter of fact, Mr.
Speaker, you are a most fortunate man in
that Mick Hickey was not appointed Com-
missioner of the Redcliffe Royal Commis-
sion. He would have found you guilty of
every crime in the criminal calendar from
mutiny on the high seas and carnal
knowledge of a goat.
Mr. Speaker: Order!
Or this:
Mr. Muller: I wish that ratbag would
keep quiet.
Mr. Aikens : I do not mind being called a
ratbag by anyone else in the Chamber, but
when a ratbag refers to me as a ratbag
The Chairman: Order! I ask the hon.
member for Fassifern to withdraw the word
“ratbag.”
Mr. Muller: I accept the denial, Mr.
Chairman.
The Chairman: I ask the hon. member
for Mundingburra to withdraw the word
“ratbag” also.
Mr. Aikens: I withdraw it from my
brother ratbag.
The Chairman: I ask the hon. member
to withdraw it.
Mr. Aikens : I withdraw it.
The A.R.U. has submitted a log of
claims apparently designed to do away
with railway-deficits by closing down the
railways altogether. Main items include
a basic wage of £3O for a 30-hour week ;
18 paid public holidays a year; three-
months long-service leave after five years’
service, with an extra 18 days for each
additional year; more liberal overtime
rates.
• •
Later this year a British Petroleum
tanker is to call at Norfolk Island to
discharge marine fuel-oil and take on 1500
tons of whale-oil for delivery in Sydney.
The fuel-oil is for use in the whale-chasers
and processing plant of the Norfolk
Whaling Co.
« ©
In 1953 the research-laboratories in
N.S.W. planned by the Atomic Energy
Commission were estimated to cost
£4,657,250. Work began in 1955, but
delays due to strikes and bad weather
have been followed by substantial reduc-
tion of funds from the Federal Govern-
ment, which has severely curtailed
progress. This in turn will have effects
on the commission’s staff, many of whom
are training at Harwell in England. The
Auditor-General has pointed out that the
commission’s plans provide for these
officers to return to Australia for a full
research-programme to be undertaken in
the second half of next year. Delay in
completion of the laboratories, he says,
may affect plans for employment of these
officers, most of whom are in higher
salaried groups.
• •
In talking of the depression of the
1930’s some “Labor” politicians seem to
lose all sense of proportion. Thus Patrick
Galvin, M.H.R. for Kingston (S.A.),
speaking in the Budget debate:
The honorable member for Hume prob-
ably never experienced the hunger and
misery that were suffered by the people
who had to line-up for the dole during the
depression years. He has never had to go
without the comforts of life, and so one
can understand his not having the same feel-
ings and the same fears as the people who
experienced the worst effects of the
depression.
The honorable member for Hume is
C. G. Anderson, V.C., who, with thou-
sands of other Australians, spent over
three years in Japanese prison-camps.
• •
“Myall”: Queensland Transport
Minister Duggan appears to be out for
every bob he can squeeze from the cockies
and other users of his ragtime railways,
to help make up the enormous deficit of
the past financial year. To obtain the
low “port rate” for goods consigned to
Brisbane and other ports, all wagons
must be loaded to full capacity. Chaff
and hay, and such light grains as Japanese
millet, sunflower, safflower, as well as
most grass-seeds, must be stacked high
to enable the desired weight to be loaded.
This necessitates the use of an extra tar-
paulin, which under a new by-law means
an extra £l. Road hauliers provide pro-
tection for goods, no matter how many
covers are required, at no extra cost.
• •
Osborne, Minister for Customs, on the
technique of Canberra’s most persistent
questioner:
One of the first things that I learned,
following my appointment to this office, was
the particular technique of the honorable
member for East Sydney in writing a
letter to a Minister, following it up by a
telegram before the letter had been
delivered, following the telegram up by
an urgent telegram before the telegram had
been refceived, and then raising a complaint
in the House that the Minister had not dealt
with his correspondence.
If Eddie is still using that technique the
posties’ regulation strike should make his
task much simpler.
• •
Another traditional stronghold of the
romantic is threatened. The Common-
wealth Forestry Bureau and the division
of plant industry of C.5.1.R.0. have
evolved a method of treatment which
kills from 70 to 100 per cent, of mistletoe,
without causing permanent damage to
more than 5 per cent, of the host-trees.
« •
“Mugga Way”: There should be a new
naval ditty called “High-Ho Hobart.”
The story of the modernising and con-
version of the light cruiser H.M.A.S.
Hobart would be a worthy subject, stress-
ing, of course, that £1,430,637 has been
spent on this task, that the ship, because
of “changes in naval policy,” is now in
reserve, and that another £l-million or
so would have to be spent on her before
she could perform any role in the R.A.N.
Coupled with the stories of unsatisfactory
storekeeping and accounting in the Army
and Air Force, the defence picture isn’t
amusing to taxpayers.
• \ •
Victorian road-tax on truck-owners of
a third-of-a-penny a mile has turned up
£430,436 in four months since April 1,
although a majority of inter-State
operators have paid nothing because
the High Court hasn’t yet declared the
tax valid. Last year Victorian motorists
paid £10,500,000 in petrol-tax. “Our
roads,” reports Daniel Scott, Victorian
president of the Chamber of Manufac-
tures, “are dangerous to life and a
liability to industry.”
e •
Costs of Federal Parliament are still
rising, and the full figure of 1955-56 is
not yet known. Disclosed total for the
year, £2,328,035, compares with £1,776,295
the previous year, but it doesn’t include
pensions of officers (£10,513 in 1954-55)
which are now paid by the Treasury, the
loss on the refreshment-rooms, or the
£95,570 paid by the taxpayers towards the
pensions of retired M.P.s. It does include
an amount of £582,198 lumped generally
under the heading of “other services,” and
also £66,219 for the salaries and allow-
ances of Ministers and £426,952 for
Parliamentary allowances for members—
a sum which will be greatly exceeded this
year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
GIVING evidence how he had watched
through the window of a cosy
kitchenette a woman and her lover dilly-
dallying to the accompaniment of a Test-
match description, a Hobart witness
swore that the lover had been so dis-
turbed at what he heard on the wireless
that he was moved to desist from ardent
amour to exclaim: “Hell! Johnson’s
out!” —“Em tee.”
❖ * ❖
“Old Cynic”: A favorite film-actress
of, my youth, when at the height of her
fame, gave her age as being exactly the
same as mine. When she was arrested
recently for drunken driving the news-
papers reported her age as being 35. I
am 48. Now, what do you suppose
detained her? Or is it that lost weekends
are getting longer in Hollywood?
“Cash Count”: We were lined-up at the
railway-gates—the opulent Jaguar, the
battered panel-van, the family sedan, and
my ancient tourer. The gates opened,
and we crossed in order, each skirting a
fair-sized hunk of firewood that had
toppled from the passing goods-train.
Who pulled-up and ran back for the
firew'ood? The portly owner of the “Jag.”
Perhaps that’s why he’s got one.
“Agricola”: How lucky can you be?
A man making a break from the Queens-
land police dashed for cover across the
Wellington Point flats. He was soon run
down by—Detective J. Landy.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Wusslean”: One of the banks has
been inviting schoolchildren to come in
during their term-holidays and see how
banks work. Young Wusslean announced
that he had put his name down for a
visit, much to our surprise, as he had
“Were engaged , Daddy , ENGAGED!”
never displayed any interest in working
in a bank (or anywhere else, for that
matter). He returned in high spirits:
he had looked over three or four banks,
been allowed to handle £20,000 in notes,
had a three-course lunch and sundry
refreshments and watched some films in
a theatrette. Finally he flourished a
crisp new ten-bob note —“for fares and
incidental expenses,” he explained. So,
“Ceg” (B. 5/9/’56), they are giving
away samples!
*I«
“Lorna Doone”: Father’s Day! And
Mother’s Day and all the other little
days ... I just can’t wait for mine—
when are they going to have Spinster
Aunt’s Day?
* ❖ *>
“Rimutuka”: In a breach-of-promise
case in Brisbane the lady included in her
list of expenditure in anticipation of
marriage “£l2 for a pair of blankets,” a
charge difficult to sheet home, as tradi-
tion and custom demand that the intend-
ing bridegroom pay for the blankets.
Why should this be so, when the bride
provides all other household linen?
♦♦♦ ♦+♦
“Fitz”: “Do you know, Grandpa,”
remarked six-year-old Christine, “when
I grow up I’m not going to get married.”
“No?” I questioned. “No,” said
Christine, “and Colleen and Kay and
Sylvia they’re not going to get married,
either.” “Oh, oh!” I said. “We’re all
going to live together and have lots of
babies,” continued Christine. “That will
be nice,” I commented. “Yes, won’t it?”
she responded. “And one is going to
mind the babies, one is going to look after
the house, one is going to work to earn
the money, and one is going to sit on
the beach all day and paint her toenails
and smoke cigarettes.” “And who,” I
asked, “is going to sit on the beach all
day and paint her toenails and smoke
cigarettes?” “/ am,” said Christine
firmly.
* *> »>
“Crested Grebe”: If one can rattle
off a Scarlatti sonata, moon through the
“Moonlight,” hurl oneself into Khacha-
turian, Shostakovich or Prokofieff, prance
into any of those hackneyed polonaises or
marches for which Chopin is chiefly
remembered: if you play any of these,,
I say, there’ll invariably be an enthusiastic
reception. However, it’s quite the reverse
with Bach; his contrapuntal ingenuity
seems to demand too much of the average
listener. But why is it, when one
improvises a series of Bachlike variations
on, say, “Davy Crockett,” they clamor
for more?
*t* ❖ ♦♦♦
“Rimutuka”: When the Australian
tobacco-firm’s offer to Laker became
known, someone nastily suggested that
they also bring out a few Players.
♦>
“Villefair”: That High Churchman
who buried the nonconformist (B.
15/8/’56) had a sort of counterpart
in Colditz during World War 11. P. R.
Reid, in Colditz Story, describes how
the Germans sought to persuade p.-0.-w.
officers to work for the Reich. A
volunteer stepped forward and offered his
services. Beaming German officers con-
gratulated him: “So you wish to work
for Germany?” The renegade, to the
disgust of his colleagues, replied that he
would rather work for 20 Germans than
one of his own countrymen. “And what
is your trade?” “Undertaker.”
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Kanimbla”: Burwood (Sydney) is the
first suburb in Australia to have a fully-
mechanised savings-bank. Four new
“But he must be SOMEWHERE!”
£lBOO sensimatic counting-machines have
been installed in the branch there of the
Commonwealth Savings Banlf. A deposit
can be entered in a passbook within 15
seconds. It is estimated that the machines
will halve the time for deposits or with-
drawals. The first step towards auto-
mation in banking, they can also post
interest to accounts, but a fallible human
is still needed to determine whether your
overdraft is a good risk.
“Geep”: Book-news from Unesco:
Of all the books produced in a year
(over 5000-million) threequarters come
from only 10 countries, half are for
school use, and 90 per cent, originate in
only 30 of the world’s 3000 languages.
“A.W.”: So Handel’s “Hallelujah
Chorus” is “simple enough,” “Maitri”
(B. 29/8/’56)? See how many church
choirs can sing it. The D-major theme
is “simple enough,” but a theme, how-
ever simple, is characterised by its treat-
ment ; look what Beethoven does to a
quaver-triplet in his “Fifth,” also his
conversion of a ridiculously simple melody
into what we know as the final (choral)
movement of the Ninth Symphony. And
so it is with the “Hallelujah” ; lurking
beneath an apparently innocent melodic
line there’s quite complex musical
substrata.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mid-on”: Easy to see “Wusslean”
hasn’t read enough cricket-jargon to
know what it means (B. 5/9/’56). The
term “nightwatchman” has a specific
usage, and does not refer to every bats-
man at the crease at the close of
a day’s play. If two recognised
batsmen are in and one is dis-
missed just before stumps, a
mediocre batsman promoted to
try to stay in till play ends for
the day is the so-called night-
watchman. The batting-order
must be changed, and there must
be one or more recognised bats-
men to follow, for the term to
be correctly used. In the plural
the second recognised batsman
must also be dismissed, with
another tail-ender promoted ; or
an innings begins just before
stumps with a makeshift open-
ing-pair. As with taxation and
public-service red-tape, a certain
amount of jargon is necessary
for proper understanding, and a
certain amount of understanding
is necessary for jargon ; though
I will admit all three can be
overdone.
“Metax”: In a new four-story hospital
to be built at Latrobe for £771,000, the
Speck Public Welfare Department’s
most expensive single contract, cooking
will be done on the top-floor so that
patients will not‘have to smell their food
too long before they taste it.
♦> * *>
“Phillida”: Isn’t spring-cleaning a little
out of place in Australia? The idea was
handed down from English forebears who
were used to much longer winters and
consequent continual fires, many of them
coal, noted for its grime. When in hot,
dry, inland areas of Australia I autumn-
cleaned, in spite of ridicule. I couldn’t
see the use of spring-cleaning before
summer duststorms. In coastal areas, too,
winter is the cleanest time. After the
humidity and salt winds of summer,
curtains and upholstery and so on are
sticky. Cupboards and wardrobes smell
musty and mildewy. Camphor seems to
discourage mould and mildew. Last
summer several women in a chemist’s
shop where I was buying camphor for
cupboards and stored winter clothes were
evidently of the same opinion.
*z*
“Aqua”: The Junior Salesmen’s Oscar
for the year goes to the Melbourne paper-
boy about to enter the Carlton dressing-
room after their defeat by Footscray, who
fijrst removed his Footscray beanie cap.
♦>
“Postie”: During the 9 p.m. A.B.C.
news, with the volume turned low (Junior
asleep in the next room) and my ear close
to the receiver, I heard an unidentified
caller ring a Mr. about an advertise-
ment in a well-known Queensland
weekly. As soon as the news-session from
Sydney finished and we were returned to
our Queensland station the double-
broadcast ended, but not before I had
listened to a woman with the most
intriguing laugh I’ve heard talking to her
friend.
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“J.D.W.”: “Vingter’s” par. (B. 8/8/’56)
about the German wedding-celebrations
in Queensland that went on for 24 hours
calls to mind a yarn they tell down at Te
Anau, Maoriland, where, beside the
smooth waters of the lovely lake, time
stands still. In one wedding there, sueh
was Te Anau’s enthusiasm that celebra-
tions were still going strong when the
honeymooners returned a fortnight later.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Tas.”: Please tell “Geep” (B.
29/8/’56) that other civilised countries
have had for many years past a “Belated
Birthday Card.” I enclose one that was
designed and made in Australia, which
is as good as any Yankee one, I reckon:
[Sure is, pardner; lil’ ol’ verse begins:
Am I in the Dog House?
I sure hope not....]
“W.P.T.”: During a radio-session for
teenagers a 15-year-old high-school girl
didn’t know the Christian-name of Hitler,
nor could she tell the compere just who
Hitler was.
*1* ❖ ♦&
/ found when last in Hobart, Tas>,
This poser in the street:
Wah Shing takes in my laundry,
But A h Ham sells no meat!
TASMANIA. Pioneer Paddy.
LOOKING BACKWARD
“Censors are working at high pressure on
feet of film, ordered for television,
which will take about 2688 hours to screen.”
Films in million-feet progressions
Need no blatant sex-appeal,
Crudities or indiscretions.
To make Australian censors reel.
It must be hard to keep your seat on
Such reviews of unemployed:
Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton ...
These days, can they sell you Lloyd ?
Vetting ancient vamps’ apparel, in
Retrospective camera,
When they get around to Marilyn
She will be a grand mama:
Still these old films must remind them
Stars can vanish from the skies
And, departing, leave behind them
Something cheap to televise.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


MEITHER shortage of funds nor
1 shortage of their girls’ dresses appeals
to Melbourne’s Taxation Department,
and this reminds me that Melbourne
shops are selling nylon scanties printed
with Olympic Games rings at 30s. a
pair.—“C.P.G.”
“Ardoyne”: We simply had to
economise, so Mrs. A. put rice on the
weekly grocery-order and halved the
potato-ration. The grocer’s assistant
scanned the list, then remarked enviously,
“My word, you must be well-off to afford
six pounds of potatoes! ” He wasn’t being
facetious, either: spuds have touched 25.-
a-pound in Melbourne.
“Wusslean”: “We had an unbalanced
team,” said the chap in the tram. “Look
at the names in the fifth Test—Archer,
Benaud, Burke, Craig, Davidson, Harvey,
;,£ SOn ’ Langley, Lindwall, Miller,
McDonald, with Burge as twelfth man.
Mot one from the second half of the
alphabet! ” Of course, you can’t bet on
the alphabet, but only two of the 17
Australians had names beginning with
letters from the second half —Rutherford
and Wilson —and they weren’t picked.
*> *t*
“Kenyas”: A brainy-looking bloke
turned-up at our school just before the
holidays with still another questionnaire,
including: “Which do you prefer,
theology or athletics?” and every blessed
kid wrote down “Theology!” Staggered
by the appalling lie, I asked the why. “We
thought it was what he wanted us to say!”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ranger”: Not so longwinded in his
title as the author mentioned by “Tos”
(B. 22/8/’56), an 18th-century biographer
called his book:
The Life of Samuel Johnson, LI.D. Com-
prehending an Account of his Studies and
Numerous Works, in Chronological Order;
a Series of his Epistolary Correspondence,
and Conversations with Many Eminent
Persons; and Various Original Pieces of his
Composition, Never Before Published, the
Whole Exhibiting a View of Literature and
Literary Men in Great Britain, for near
Half a Century during which he Flourished;
by James Boswell, Esq.
Such is fame that now it is Jtnown merely
as “Boswell’s Life” A
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.M.”: A Hobart lass came to light
with a novel and effective deterrent to
wolves. Whistled-at from a parked sedan
by two of the stovepipe-trouser brigade,
she produced from her handbag a very
full water-pistol and let them have the
contents right between the eyes.
*l* ❖ *l*
“Keem”: Relieving in a city office, 1
tripped over a woman cleaner and we got
talking. Or she did. “Just bought meself
a real nice solid-walnut wardrobe. And
cash, too. I don’t believe in this lend-
lease buying.” Up-country, an office
again, typists were pooling money and
sending to the city for best-brand bath-
towels. Each ordered three. The cleaner
ordered six. As one girl remarked later,
“I know what she’s got that I haven’t —•
cash.”
❖ *l* +3*
“Kate”: The interior-decorator walked
up to the wall and measured the picture
just hung against his abdomen. He ex-
plained that most pictures looked right
when the lower part of the frame came
level with, the third-top button on his
waistcoat. That, he said, was 4ft. 6in,
❖ ♦♦♦ <4
“Melboy”: West Germany’s toy-
exports last year topped the forty-million-
dollar mark. No modem units have been
added to the tin soldiers (which have been
produced without a break in the Nurem-
berg area for more than two centuries)
except a number of tanks with U.S. mark-
ings, and some aircraft with Nazi
swastika in bold evidence, the latter im-
ported from U.S.A.!
i* ♦> *
“Sixtoes”: While on these bathrooms
of other lands, who remembers that pub
in Damascus —the Hotel Victoria, I think
it was called? Long after we had
cleaned-up von Saunders, Djemal and
the rest we arrived in Damascus in the
small hours of the morning, hungry and
as filthy as one could get on that box-
car train on a hot night, and went to the
Hotel Victoria, with its huge plaque
recording that Tsars, Kaisers, Kings and
Queens had been bitten by its bugs.
Flushed-out the proprietor, who had
apparently slept fully-clad even to his
tarbush. “Could we have a bath?” we
asked. “Why, yes,” he replied, “the
public hammam is just down the street.”
“But what about the hotel bathrooms?”
“There are no bathrooms here,” he
spluttered. “What, no bathrooms? This
must be a lousy sort of hotel! ” He drew
himself to his full sft., and with wither-
ing scorn announced, “I tell you that our
guests always come to us ready bathed.”
“D.J.G.”: For poor spelling, which
is just as rife in Victoria as in Queens-
land (B. 29 18/'56), I blame educationists
who teach the alphabet by the phonetic
system. To drum into infant ears that
“c” says “k” when as often as not it says
“s” makes the later task of unlearning
difficult. Until we revert to the hard way
of learning to spell each word individually
we will turn out, year by year, adolescents
who spell ere by ear.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: A few weeks ago an
English film-star’s miscarriage was radio-
telegraphed around the world; but why
is it news that Diana Dors takes a bath?
❖ ♦> ❖
“Aeolus”: I admired the fine writing of
a draughtsman-friend on plans. He took
a threepenny-piece and inscribed, with a
needle-sharp pencil, a circle around it. %
Then, with only the aid of the glasses
which he normally wore, he printed in
that small circle the Lord’s Prayer, start-
ing from the outside and working in a
circle towards the centre.. It seemed to me
just a grey-shaded circle, but under a
magnifying-glass each word could be seen
perfectly. Not bad for a man nearer 60
than 50.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Doric”: In the centre of that
seething maelstrom of traffic the Place de
la Concorde, Paris, is an Egyptian obelisk,
similar to London’s Cleopatra’s Needle.
Standing on the outside I asked a
bystander if he could tell me what was
the inscription at the base of the monu-
ment. “I’ve never managed to get there,”
he said, “but I’m told that it records the
names of the people killed trying to find
out what you’ve just asked me.”
INCENTIVE TO DALLY
“On some juries I’ve found too many jury-
men want to talk on every subject except the
one for which they've been called together. It
is scandalous the time that is wasted —and for
what purpose?” —Letter to Sydney daily. *
Good and true men — there's a dozen —
Get their conversation buzzin’,
Listen-in !
"I backed Deadlegs for a packet . . .”
“Spuds are short ? That’s just a
racket . . .!”
“Laker’s spin
Can’t be that hard to handle . . .”
“Oh, that business was a scandal
And I know . . .!’’
“Yair, she had to have some radium
Treatment . . .” “Wrestling at the
Stadium ?
Never go . . .”
"Landy’s chance ? It’s my opinion . .
“Did the lot — crown-wheel and pinion ;
Blasted ‘bomb’ . . .!”
“I buy three in every lottery . . .”
“Oh, my missus’s hobby’s pottery . . .”
“Where’s he from ?
Gudgeebilla — well, he looks it . . .!”
“Hits a long one, and he hooks it;
Gee, I laughed . . .”
“Who ? Oh, you bet he’s been fixed-up ;
The old blmkard’s always mixed up
In some graft . .
“Well, I got this pain one morning;
Hit me right here, without warning.
It was crook
/ can tell you ” “Hey, you fellows,
Can you ease up on the bellows
There? Now, look,
The judge and court are waiting;
We’re supposed to be debating
On this case.
Time we started on discussing . . .”
“Listen, mug —why all the fussing?
Shut your face . . ./”
“Anyway, what’s all the hurry ?
Are you ‘Dynamite’ Jack Murray ?
Lay off, see !
Were contented here, just sitting,
Not condemning or acquitting
Hastily.
Better take a wake-up, brother,
To yourself. Why, just another
Hour’s all we need;
For you mustn’t be forgetting
When on verdicts we are sweating
At some length, we’ll all be netting
A free feed!’’
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
"NEW WORLD MEETS OLD"
'"TONIGHT we welcome to our micro-
phone ar distinguished visitor from
Rumania. In the series “New World
Meets Old” you will hear Willoughby
Mayflower interviewing Mr. Anton Popo-
lescu, of Bucharest.
Good evening, Mr. Popolescu.
Welcome to W.A.
Tha’s very nice. Thank you.
Not at all. You’re from Bucharest,
aren’t you, Mr. Popolescu?
Tha’s right, from Bucharest.
Let me see, that’s in Rumania, isn’t it?
Tha’s right, I come from Rumany.
Tell me, Mr. Popolescu, how does
Bucharest compare with, say, Perth? I
mean, in general-sort-of-thing, you know,
size, appearance, er . . .
Oh, is much the same, only different,
you know. Is different. In some things
the same, other things is different. The
girls is different, o’course
That’s very interesting, I’m sure. Now,
what do you do actually, Mr. Popolescu?
I mean, what is your particular business?
I am agent.
Ah, that’s interesting. What sort of
agent?
lam agent for all sorts things. I got
a little office in this city, you know,"
I handle all things there. I am special-
ising in ladies’ things, perfumes and soaps
and bits of jewellery . . .
Yes, yes, I know.
And specially I am agent for ladies’
night-things and silk stockings and nylon
stockings—l just got some lovely ones
just in, maybe you like to show your
wife —and I got specially some silk and
nylon scantaloons
Yes .. . well. . .
You tell your wife . . . lovely scanta-
loons, she can come for a fitting any
time
Well, Mr. Popolescu, I
Any time, I don’t mind; midnight is a
good time. You don’t have to bother to
come, you just send her along. I got some
beautiful nylon scantaloons tell her, just
like glass
Yes-yes-yes, but, Mr, Popolescu, have
you been in this country for long?
Yes, two-year. Two-year about.
’Course is different, you know, is
different. The girls
I see. You’ve been here two years. I
suppose you’ve done a lot of travelling in
Europe, eh?
Yes, I been around all over place.
Rome, Florence, Marseilles, Paris, Ham-
burg. Is business, you know. I got big
perfume interests in France, lovely per-
fume, maybe your wife
I’m sure our listeners find this very
interesting, Mr. Popolescu——
Oh, yes. O’course, is different. You tell
your friends, any time their wifes can
come to my office
Er—tell me, are you married, Mr.
Popolescu?
Oh, yes, here and there, is good for
business, you know.
No, but I mean is your wife here, too?
Well, here I got. . . oh, yes, my wife is
in Bucharest still.
I see. Any family?
Yes, I got six kids.
What are their ages?
Is all different you know. I got a photo-
graph of my youngest little girl, maybe
you like to see? She is three month of
age.
Three months old. Mr. Popolescu, how
long did you say you’ve been in
Australia?
Two years. Yes, two years is right . . .
Eh ... I think ... Ah-h-hhh! Excuse me,
I gotta catch a aeroplane . . .
Hey, where are you going?
Back to Bucharest!
Z’VEST.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“D.E.”: Carrie Moore, who passed on
in Sydney last week, was one of J. C.
Williamson’s discoveries. She was sing-
ing “I Don’t Want to Play in Your Yard”
with another kid, Ivy Scott, when no more
than 13, and made an immediate hit.
Going to London in her late ’teens she
became an established favorite in
pantomime and musical-comedy, as was
demonstrated when a full-page portrait of
her appeared on the front-page of the
“Sketch,” then the ambition of every
aspiring actress.
I honestly believe she was the most
successful Australian ever to appear on
the London stage in its lighter phases;
her only rival was another Melbourne
girl, on the halls, Florrie Forde, whom
all Old Diggers must remember. Apropos,
Florrie married a policeman, as Marilyn
Monroe was to do.
Young or old, on the boards or in
company, Carrie Moore was a sure cure
for the blues. She grew old only in years,
retaining her slim figure and her gay and
charming nature to the end. And she
made the Grand Exit as she would have
chosen to do: peacefully, painlessly, a
hand in that of a loved sister, herself in
her day an actress of note, and Carrie’s
best pal always.
• •
Greenway is a surprising name for
an American to wear to Australia ; and,
mild and modest though he is to talk to,
Professor John Greenway, from Denver,
U.S.A., is a surprising character. He
collects Australian folksongs; he sings
them to his guitar over the A.8.C.; he
has listed 4000 items for a bibliography
of Australian anthropology and thinks
he will get 10,000 ; and, most astonishing
of all, he thinks that, in their care and
good manners, Sydney motorists are a
welcome change from Americans. When
The Bulletin sighted him he was on
. his way to Brisbane, via Newcastle and
Arrnidale, lecturing as he went. He has
published American Folksongs of
Protest.
9 9
Darrell Drucker, new U.S. information-
officer in Melbourne, is square-faced,
clean-shaven, has crew-cut hair, really
white teeth, an open smile, and talks
directly. He’s a Doctor of Philosophy
in American studies, loved thq Atlantic
when he served in small rescue-craft
during the war —he doesn’t talk much
about his Pacific knows the
U.S. very well, especially the eastern
States. Thirty-six, he has only a desk in
the* American Consulate in Bourke-street
at present, but hopes to re-establish the
information-library as soon as possible;
it all depends on the U.S. Budget. Even
the Yanks are sometimes short of dollars.
• •
When the Vice-Chancellor of Queens-
land University announced that Douglas
Gordon had been appointed Professor
of Preventive and Social Medicine,
his age was given as 45, his
graduation-year 1942 ; which made him
older than is usual at time of gradua-
tion. This, in turn, suggested experience
wider than the general Orderly sequence,
and The Bulletin asked the new prof,
if this was so ; it was:
Born at Tiaro (Q.), in the Wide Bay district
(his family went to Wide Bay by bullock-dray
over a century ago), he had bush-schooling at
Mt. Bopple, followed by secondary education
with an inclination to the humanities from the
Missionaries of the Sacred Heart, in N. S. Wales.
Undecided, for a time, whether to stay in a
monastery —finally not.
Med. 1 at the Melbourne “Shop”; then the
depression, and seven years turning a hand to
anything that offered an honest penny in the
bush —stationhand, droving, bush-carpentering,
ringbarking, fencing, contract-ploughing with old
steel-wheeled tractors, timbergetting, hauling
same with a truck that had solid-rubber tyres:
“One log on each side of the truck sticking out
fore and aft and a short one in the middle behind-
your back; if the back twitch-chain went, going
downhill, or if you hit anything, you had had
it.” Ending in comparative affluence as a
cow- and sugar-cocky.
When the medical-course started in Brisbane,
he enrolled; was in the third year to graduate;
among student activities, was president of the
Med. Students’ Association, editor of
“Trephine,” president of Leo’s, and played
cricket and football. After usual hospital
residences, had three years with the R.A.A.F.,
acquired a liking for industrial medicine when
M.O. with airfield-construction squadrons.
Took a post-graduate course with the N.S.W.
Health Department, and in 1946 started-off the
Division of Industrial Medicine at Queensland’s
Department of Health and Home Affairs. His
territory runs from Wallanganra (N.S-W.-Q.
border), and parts west, to Thursday Island,
and he has first-hand knowledge of the factories,
mines and mills in that fair number of acres.
Interested in “blending science with humanity
in medicine,” Gordon also works part-time at
Brisbane General Hospital, and lectures. He
can't take over his new job until he has caught or
trained a successor (probably next year)—and he
runs a Friesian stud, and is on the executive
of the Friesian Cattle Club. One or two other
interests: cattle and agriculture in the tropics
and sub-tropics; acclimatisation of white people
in the tropics; prevention of accidents; local
history; economic and scientific dairying (as
opposed to scientific and official dairying). Some
dislikes: golf; bridge; official advice on dairy-
ing when it blames the local cocky for not
adopting practices found successful in colder
climes.
• •
“Uramao”; Canterbury College (N.Z.)
has picked a Canadian, Hubert Sampson,
as lecturer in Psychology. A McGill
Ph.D. who has specialised in comparative
and physiological psychology, Sampson
has latterly been research-psychologist at
the Defence Medical Laboratories in
Toronto.
• •
“K.R.” on Cinderella’s coach:
St. Kilda, “Cinderella” club in the Victorian
Football League, after being whipped hollow
early in the season, played very close games with
all the top teams. Coach Alan Killigrew,
who took on the job this year, can
take a large share of the credit. Standing sft.
3in., making up in heart what he lacked in
height, “Killer” was in the St. Kilda side which
reached the finals in 1939—the last of the five
times that the Saints have done so since 1897.
He served in the Navy, returned to football
in 1945, and the same year was afflicted with
t.b. of the spine: four years in a hospital-bed.
On his feet again, he coached his old school
(C.8.C., East St. Kilda) to such purpose that
in his four years with it the school won three
premierships and was runner-up. Then coaching
around Ballarat, and now St. Kilda, which has
recently extended his term for three years.
Killigrew thinks he can do for St. Kilda just
about what he did for his school —and St.
Kilda has never yet won a premiership!
s •
Scored 80 this month, Will Lawson,
novelist, poet and short-story writer. Bill
Fitz Henry recalls hearing “an ancient
mariner” recite his “Ladies in the Engine-
room” in Sydney’s Customs House Hotel,
to have it capped by a recital of Will’s
“Stokin’ ”by another seafaring man: no
bad recommendation for any poet. Will
Lawson has had six books of verse pub-
lished, a dozen novels, and has written
many short stories; also about 10
historical and descriptive books. And he
helped Bertha Lawson —Henry Lawson’s
widow—in the writing of My Henry
Lawson. In verse and prose, the ground
he has covered is immense—sea, bush,
town, Australia and New Zealand. A
recent note from him mentions that he
has been “writing for The Bulletin for
56 years without a break.”
e •
“Pip Tok” on some old, old soldiers:
Passing at 109 of Albert Woolson, American
Civil War veteran and last survivor of the
Union Army, brings to mind a roll-call of
British veterans who were a long time a-fading.
Here are the ages at the finish of those who
outdistanced Woolson: Ironside and last
Marston Moor survivor Colonel Thomas
Winslow, 136; Alexander McCulloch, another
Marston Moor man, 130; three soldiers who
served at the capture of Gibraltar, Matthew
Tait, James Campbell and William Billings, 123,
120 and 109 respectively; one of Admiral
Rooke’s cabin-boys, same action, 115; last
known survivor of Marlborough’s campaigns,
Henry Framsie, who had paraded as a drummer-
boy for Queen Anne’s coronation, 134. Phoebe
Hessel, who donned man’s togs, enlisted in the
sth (Northumberland) Fusiliers, and took a
bayonet wound in the arm at the Battle of
Fontenoy just misses out —she was 108 when
she died in 1821.
C. H. HADGRAFT, lecturer in English
at Queensland University, who is off to
Omaha, Nebraska, for a year, on a John
Hay Whitney fellowship, to lecture in
Australian literature and study American.
He has just completed a history of
Australian literature.
“C.H.”: The Rev.
Leopold Charlton, who
has passed on in Sydney
at 83, was for 44 years
rector of St. Martin's
Church, Killara. Formerly
assistant to the Rev.
Canon Raymond King (a
descendant of Governor
King) at St. John’s,
Gordon —the canon’s cure
of souls once extended
almost from Chatswood
to the Hawkesbury River,
and the Killara church,
together with a couple of
dozens of others, was
largely the result of his
missionary enterprise
Charlton became Killara’s
first rector. He was a
well-nigh perfect example
of an Anglican parish
priest, always ready with
a helping hand for those
of other faiths (or none)
as well as for members of
his own communion;
many who thought they
had waved farewell for
ever to orthodox religion
came to regard him as an
outstanding advertisement
for practical Christianity.
This unassuming, kindly
shepherd will be missed by
a host of residents' on
Sydney’s North Shore. The late Arch-
deacon Charlton was a brother.
• •
Archibald Grenfell Price, Master of St.
Mark’s since 1924, has retired to help
organise the new Australian Humanities
Research Council, of which he is deputy-
chairman. Born in Adelaide and educated
at St. Peter’s, Adelaide, and Magdalen,
Oxford, Dr. Price (D.Litt., Adelaide)
opened St. Mark’s, the first residential
HUMANITIES RESEARCHER
college at Adelaide University. When the
R.A.A.F. took over the college during the
war, he was elected Federal member for
Boothby. He’s a C.M.G., and is widely
known as a geographer and historian.
• •
The favorite has won the State
Electricity Commission’s £5500-a-year
Stakes in Victoria ; Willis Connolly, the
former chairman’s deputy, who had been
well tipped, got there from a field of 41,
which included many top overseas
engineers. He went straight from Mel-
bourne University to be one of Monash’s
young men at Yallourn in 192-1, when a
brown-coal mine was just a hope. At 54,
Connolly plays a pretty good stick at
tennis still, and Kooyong officials reckon
he would make the grade in C-pennant
tennis. Last year when he and John
Dobson, Kooyong manager, were at the
commission’s big new venture at Kiewa,
they challenged all-comers in the valley.
Nobody was more surprised than they
when they won, or so they say.
• *
Acting High ComnfiSsioner for
Pakistan Mumtaz Ali Alvie, who left for
Karachi last Friday, has been well liked
in his term here ; his new post is in Saudi
Arabia. From the Punjab, he served for
a time with the Rajputan Rifles, but for
most of War II was a staff-officer in the
Middle East and Mediterranean war-
areas, winding-up as a lieut.-colonel in
Italy. A Law graduate, he was Under-
DEPARTING DIPLOMAT
Secretary of the Department of Infor-
mation before becoming a diplomat.
Schooled in two of the classic languages
of Asia, Persian and Arabic, his best
European language is Italian; but his
English is very respectable, as became
plain during an interview, when he
unexpectedly switched roles, quietly
examining interviewer on his views—on
Australia’s future. The situation right-
side-up again, and the question put, Alvie
leaned back and unrolled a picture of this
country’s present and growing prestige,
which, as representative of outside
opinion, was naturally interesting; and
seemed to have something much more
forceful than diplomatic courtesy behind
it.
• «
Into the Silence:
In England, at 92, Thomas Francis Fremantle,
3rd Baron Cottesloe, grand-nephew of the R.N.
captain after whom the Westralian port is
named. Cottesloe, Perth’s seaside suburb, and
Swanbourne (named after the Fremantle home
in Buckinghamshire) derive from the same
association; A Territorial lieut.-colonel, he had
been chairman of the National Rifle Association,
had served on various War Office committees,
was interested in Army history, and had written
books on the rifle; also verse.
In Brisbane, at 60, John McCracken,
appointed to the Bench of the State Industrial
Court last February, and before that Public
Service Commissioner (a key-job in the Queens-
land administration) for 17 years. Born in
Scotland, he came to Brisbane as a youth, joined
the State Public Service in 1911, and served
with Field Artillery in France and Egypt.
At 56, in Perth, J. D. Macdonald, secretary
of Perth Road Board since 1954. Before that
he had been the board’s accountant and
assistant-secretary for 26 years. Life-member
of the Westralian Amateur Athletic
Association, a former secretary, and the associa-
tion’s treasurer since 1938.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 55, Canterbury
College registrar James Logie, who will be
remembered by many generations of students
scattered over the earth’s surface —he had been
with the university college, in one capacity ana
another, nearly 40 years. One of his ambitions
was to see the college owning a mace, and one
from Christ Church, Oxford, had been brought
out by Prime Minister Holland, but the r.M.
hadn’t had the opportunity to deliver it to the
registrar before his death.
in Perth, at 78, Norman Temperley, Old
Digger and company-director, who had devoted
many years to local-government and youth-
welfare activities. After war service with the
32nd Battalion, he was chairman of the local
board and member of the London board at a
Westralian timber-firm, chairman of the local
board of the Commercial Union Insurance
Company, member of the Peppermint Grove
Road Board, and life-member of the Y.M.G.A-
In Melbourne, at 57, Norman Long, one of
the greatest fullbacks the Victorian Footbah
Association has had. Returned soldier from
War I he played in the 1920’s with Preston an
then Northcote. He was in the Northcote team
in 1924 when George Gough kicked 25 goab
against Prahran, still an Association record.
At 88, in Adelaide. Frank George Wakefield
Baker, whose mother came here on the sartmg-
ship Buckinghamshire in the first, year of set
ment in Adelaide. Born in Kent Town lb -
one of 11 children, and with a third name which
is a reminder of the State's beginnings, h
a pioneer of Australian Rules football in the
Norwood district.
At 74, in Hobart, Colonel Charles H. EllioU,
C.M.G. D.S.O. and Bar, L.d’H., V.D., one
of the best-known battalion-commanders 1
First A.I.F. Sailed from Hobart in th
Geelong, as a captain with the original 12th ■
tone of the first four battalions to land on
Gallipoli) on October 20, 1914; his widow, •
a nursing-sister, sailed on the same ship
same day Colonel Elliott commanded the Uh
i'm- most of the three years it was in France,
he was wounded three times
interested in insurance before and after r ” o£
he was a keen Legacy man up to the time
his death.


THE HELPFUL TYPE


ABORIGINALITIES
r pHE open-season for lost hikers is about
to begin; thrilling broadcasts will
describe the rigors of one night in the
bush suffered by a couple of husky blokes
saved from starvation only by a few
bread-rolls, tinned asparagus and lobster.
Listening, I am always reminded of
another bush-episode. Time, late 1850’s.
Scene, four days’ travel by wagon east of
where Wagin (W.A.) now stands. A lad
of 14 looks down on his father, who had
died during the night. Lad grits his teeth,
rolls Dad in blankets, and begins the
long, lonely trip back home —200 miles of
trackless, rough country. He made it,
and, with Mum’s help, buried Dad in
Picton churchyard, then set about keeping
his six younger brother and sisters. That’s
how I come to write this. The lad was my
grandfather.—“ The Red Dam.”
* * * #
“Q. Ree”: I see in a paper here in
Fiji that an author-lecturer stayed two
days to write articles for American
papers. If tourists would confine them-
selves to personal impressions all would
be well, but few can resist political and
racial subjects. One trap—apart from
legpulling—is that many Fijians and
Indians do not speak English well enough
to understand English questions or
answer them properly. The Fijians’ way
of answering negative questions is also
confusing. If one asks, “Isn’t the bus
going?” and they answer “Yes,” they do
not mean “The bus is going,” but, “Yes,
the bus is not going.”
* * * *
“Buster”: Met him on a small Vic-
torian coastal creek panning for gold.
He’d not had much luck, but wasn’t
growling. His camp was a bit higher than
the creek and about 200yds. from it. He’d
cut a gutter from higher up the creek
round the side of the hill. Bark-pipes
brought the water right to the door.
Near by was an old hollow-log with the
top cut off and the ends boarded up, and
beside it was a fireplace and two kero.-
tins. Hot baths were no trouble at all.
He had a scheme, too, to run his T-model
Ford down to the creek and hook the
generator to a waterwheel for electricity.
“1 like me comfort,” he said.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Yairs, it’s a good crop,”
agreed Dad, letting his eyes sweep over
the paddock of corn. “But at one stage
I never thought we’d get a stalk up. Never
see so many blasted white-cockatoos
around in me life. One mob in particular
fastened on to this joint,
just as we were plantin’.
They’d sweat on us
finishin’, an’ then they’d
scratch up the seed an’
scoff it. Had us worried
for a while.” “How did
you beat them?” asked
the visitor. “Soaked a
bushel o’ the seed in over-
proof rum,” said Dad, “an’
scattered it over the head-
land where they used to
lob every mornin’. By the
time I’d go out to start
they’d be all fightin’ drunk,
an’ they’d spend all the day
stoushin’ an’ screechin’ at
each other, an’ all the next
recoverin’ from the binge.
I just kept the treatment
goin’ till the corn was up.
Never heard so much bad
cocky-language, though,
when they turned-up for
more an’ found the supply
of the I-diddle was cut
off!”
* * *
“W.P.T.”: Waters of the Snowy River
were used to provide power for industry
109 years ago. Back in 1847 Stewart
Ryrie, jnr., erected the first flour-mill
on Monaro on the bank of the Snowy
at Jindabyne, a water-wheel in the river
providing the power. Not far away, at
Nimmitabel, there still stands a brick
tower which is all that remains of another
early flour-mill, whose owner was pre-
vented from using wind-power because
the great revolving wings attached to the
tower cast moving shadows on the road
and these scared horses —one horse
bolted and wrecked his buggy. There
were so many protests that the wings had
to be removed.
» * * *
“Kelms”: The reported returning of
kangaroo-rats to the Victorian Wimmera
after a long absence may indicate an
Australia-wide increase in some of our
rarer mammals. That would be good
news, because many of these shy, likeable
little fellows have seemed to be almost
extinct. W.A. naturalists are welcom-
ing what seems to be a pretty general
return in some parts of the south-west,
where species that hadn’t been seen for
a long time have been reported within
the last two years. The beautiful little
numbat is one. Known as the striped
ant-eater, this small marsupial was
thought to be making its last stand in
Australia in a restricted area around
Kojonup, but lately it’s been reported
from half-a-dozen widely-scattered areas,
mostly in the wandoo-belt, where there
are also plenty of termites. The quokka,
still plentiful on Rottnest Island, seems
to be making a comeback in the main-
land, too, and so are the wambenger, the
honey-mouse, the quenda and the tiny
mundarda. These are all being reported
from different districts in greater numbers
than previously, so either they’re coming
back or they were never as scarce as was
supposed. That could easily be. They’re
mostly small, and some of them are
nocturnal.
* * * *
“Harbel”: When the apprentice
remarked that he’d have to forgo his tea
in order to make the required weight for
his amateur-boxing tourney, the old con-
tention was dragged out: a man weighed
no more after than before a meal. I’d
seen it tried, and disproved ; but it was
Tich who stopped the argument.
“Modern stuff!"
“Dunno,” he put in, “whether eatin’
affects your weight, but chinkin' makes a
helluva difference.” That brought in
Sid, of the scientific mind; he pointed
out that a pint of water weighed only
200 z.; therefore, unless a man could
drink like a camel, his weight could not
be greatly increased. “No?” said Tich.
“Well, I weigh eight-stone the way I
stand now, but after five schooners I not
only weigh fourteen-stone but I stand six-
foot-four ! ”
» * * *
“Mackville”: I thought I’d heard every
alleged “technical point” expounded by
bush-lawyers, from “It’s against the law
for a poundkeeper to lead an animal to
the pound he’s got to drive it,” to
“You’re within your rights to shoot any
animal trespassing on your property, but
you can’t touch it afterwards —you’ve got
to notify the owner to remove it.” But
it was a new-’un on me when a wiseacre
insisted that if you gave a fellow a lift
in a vehicle, then asked him to open
and shut gates en route, you legally
became his employer and could be com-
pelled to pay wages for the time taken
during the journey. My informant was
adamant; he’d seen the case tried in
Dubbo (N.S.W.), and that was the Beak’s
ruling. Like most furphies, it was born
of garbled fact. When I eventually
tracked down the original case, I found:
A cocky engaged a new hand in town and
drove him out to the property. Before
the man had actually started work he
squabbled with the boss and was sacked.
He sued for wages due from the time
he left town. The legal verdict: his
employment started from the time he
stepped into his employer’s car, and by
opening gates he was doing as his
employer requested; therefore he was
working.
* * * *
“Tom”: A venerable N.S.W. hostelry
closed its doors when the Woolpack
Hotel, Mudgee, served its last
round of drinks on August 16.
The licence has been transferred
to Wollongong. The “Pack,”
as it used to be known through-
out a wide area of western
N.S.W., was founded more than
a century ago in the west-end of
Mudgee, now a residential sec-
tion. Pre-railways, as many as
a dozen great wagons would be
parked outside at one time, and
a hundred or more big draught-
horses would be grazing in the
vicinity. Most notable of its
many licensees were “Grannie”
Smith, in her day one of the best-
known women in these parts,
and Tom Underwood, a member
of a noted pioneer family, who
was mine host for many years. A
later licensee of note was Mr,
Smith, now of Church-street, Mudgee,
who ruled the “Pack” for 15 years.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: The white-winged chough
is a big bird with sooty-black plumage
emphasised by white wing-patches. Not
unlike a currawong at first sight, save
that the bill is devoid of menace as befits
its innocent economy, there are few
stranger fowl. It travels in flocks of a
dozen or thereabouts —hence the alterna-
tive name of apostle-bird. In addition to
a not-unpleasant whistle, the chough has
one of the harshest cries in birddom,
uttered usually in unison by the whole
flock. Though one of the very few birds
that build mud-nests, the chough rarely
lingers round streams or waterholes. A
communal nest-builder, two hens will
sometimes lay in the same nest —unusual,
though, of course, not unique amongst
birds. Not related to the English chough,
nor, so far as I know, to any bird in the
world, our fellow is an avian anomaly
well worthy of close inspection.
* %# * *
“Agricola”: Country cricket-fixtures
were the talk of the bar. “How’s young
Jones shaping this year?” someone asked.
“Good enough to get him a trip to Eng-
land, but he’ll have to improve if he
wants to make the town team,” said the
selector.
* * * •
“Q.V.”: The hawk rocketed with a
wham amongst the flock of topknot
pigeons clustered in the big dead mes-
quite. A whirling flurry of wings and
the pigeons were gone, all bar the poten-
tial victim, knocked to the ground. In
nervous haste it fluttered in the tangled
undergrowth, and then was gone too.
Above, the brown, bar-breasted, fierce-
taloned and handsome raider struggled to
free himself from the long, entangling,
thorny spikes. And then the two, shrill,
shrieking peewees were on him, harassing
and humiliating. He sought sanctuary
in near-by foliage, but his tormentors
never let-up. More came. At last he
fled, craven and empty-taloned, the pied
avian cops pursuing him till out of sight.
* * * *
/COLLECTORS of Australian bush
ballads, etc., should not neglect
the walls of country pubs. Only the
politer verses found inscribed there could
be printed, but even among those there
should be some genuine Australian
material. I haven’t come across an Aus-
tralian counterpart to some verses I
copied from a pub in Cornwall, but I’m
sure there must be one:
The Horse and Mule live thirty years,
And nothing know of wines or beers.
The Goat and Sheep at twenty die,
But never tasted Scotch or Rye.
The Cow drinks water by the ton
And at eighteen is almost done.
The Dog at fifteen cashes in,
Without the aid of Rum or Gin.
The Cat in milk and water soaks,
And then in twelve short years it croaks.
The useful, sober, bone-dry hen
Lays eggs for noggs and dies at ten.
All animals are strictly dry,
Teetotal live and quickly die.
But sinful Plymouth gin-full men,
Survive for three-score-years-and-ten.
And some of us (though mighty few)
Stay pickled till we’re ninety-two.
Shindig.
BY THE RUINS AT PAESTUM
When Greek met Greek beneath a shady
tree
On such a day as this, perhaps they said
“By Zeus, but it’s hot!” and went their
ways
While the cicadas shouted overhead.
The walls are crumbling but the arch
still stands,
And over the brown grass still there
dances by
The fragile white-and-yellow butterfly —
But the men, how far, how lost in time
are they!
Yet by some magic born of this blue day
l reach into the past and touch their
hands.
And hear their voices, while from every
tree
The loud cicada shrills unceasingly.
ITALY.
NANCY CATO.


KEROSENE
PRESSURE.
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
*•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Research in Industry.
No. 28 in a Series
o
■c>h.
■
W?*?
• • •
TO SAVE HIS SKIN
Thetis, mother of Achilles, is said to have dipped him in the Styx
to make him proof against the weapons of his enemies. Un-
fortunately because she held him by one heel, which was not bathed
by the water, this became his one vulnerable spot.
Bacteria and germs can attack us through cuts and abrasions in
our skin and ever since 1867, when Lister discovered the value of
carbolic acid as an antiseptic, researchers have continued their
quest for new substances which can kill these micro-organisms on
our skin and in wounds. One such material, cetytrimethylammo-
nium bromide CTAB was discovered by ICI scientists early
in the war and clinical trials were quickly started using what research
workers at Oxford described as a brown, greasy powder which, with
water, formed a clear solution with a fishy smell.
Results proved very encouraging and soon a pure form of the
drug was produced and made available in various forms to doctors.
It met with immediate success and it is now widely used by the
medical profession. Because it proved so valuable it was suggested
that it be made up in a form suitable for home use so that, where
necessary, the patient could continue treatment after leaving hospital.
Tests showed that the antiseptic would also be very valuable in
treating many of the minor casualties that occur in every family
and today CTAB is found in many homes in the form of “Savlon”
antiseptic cream.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
'1378, U. SBB. 4070'
TAOING the British Museum recently I
” saw a stuffed exhibit of a dingo
labelled “Wild Dog of Australia —the
Domesticated Dog of the Australian
Aborigine” (this notice has been there
since 1902). Well, that rocked me. For
a start, the dingo doesn’t take to domes-
tication. And the only dogs you’ll ever
see around an abo.-camp will be bitzas,
mostly dingo-cattledog cross. My pro-
test to the authorities was duly acknow-
ledged. The label “would be amended
in due course.”—“Jackeroo.”
* * * *
“Bulloo”: The learner was battling
through a penful of tough wethers when
the boss appeared. Having lost one into
the letting-go pen he called out to the
boss to pull it out. The old chap walked
down into the pen, surveyed the “shorn”
sheep, and asked “Which one, son?”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Drifting my prau silently
down-river in Borneo, heard the surpris-
ing laugh of a kookaburra, but short
and tenor. Looked up and saw the sacred-
kingfisher. Did the ornithologists think
the risible call was exclusive to Dacelo
gigas ?
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: Something to marvel at
is the tenacity with which a mistletoe-
seed will get a hold in any nick or pore
in the bark of a tree and develop parasiti-
cally from there. Man may graft or bud
other growths on to trees without injuring
the stock in any way, yet it is not uncom-
mon to see a fine big gum killed by three
or four twigs of mistletoe which, com-
bined, wouldn’t equal the smallest branch
on the tree. It is incredible that such a
minority of growth could extract all the
nourishment trunk and roots could pro-
vide, thus killing the rest of the tree
f rom malnutrition ; so the logical conclu-
sjon - s m j s tletoe poisons its host,
thereby not only committing arboreal
murder but also suicide.
# * * *
« oramao ». xhe awe and majes t y c f
our courts-of-law do not impress the
casua] Maori . Jn the Napier Magistrate ’ s
Court a native on some charge was
“He keeps pets”
declared guilty, admonished, and fined.
Up piped the dusky defendant: “Excuse
me, sir, but would you mind sending te
account to my boss? He te goot fella;
he pay up, you see.” His Worship did
not see, and informed Henare that he
must attend to that matter himself or do
time for a week.
* * * *
“Old Crab”: Our town’s R.C. priest
and C. of E. minister were good mates.
As the C. of E.s were canvassing for
funds to demolish the old and build a
new church, our priest slipped his
opposite-number a score of notes. “So
my mob can’t say I’m slinging-in to build
your new church, put it towards pulling
the old one down,” he said.
* * * *
“Spud”: Last week I saw for the first
time a pet rabbit on a lead ; it fossicked
like a fastidious cat amongst winter
grasses.
* * * *
“Illalong”: Like “Koo-Warra” (B.
18/7/’56), “Banjo” also found much in
the Post Office Guide to. fascinate him.
It inspired his delightful poem “Come-by-
Chance,” in which Paterson called the
P.G. a “volume long and dreary” until
he “found a name that took me”—Come-
by-Chance, which sets his Muse off into
the wistful land “where the dreamers
only go,” and so on.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have in my time assaulted
many members of the gum-family, in-
cluding those with iron in their monicker,
but for the most case-hardened vege-
table when it’s in its dry state I confi-
dently back the black-wattle. As a
wrecker of wrists and a gapper of Kellys
it’s in a class of its own.
BANANA WEEK AT THE
DRIVE-IN
“Celebrating Tweed Banana Festival a drive-
in cinema at Capalaba (Q.) offered "delicious
banana fritters and banana splits’ on its menu.’
As though it were not enough simply
sitting under the stars,
Huddled up under rugs in our movie-
going cars,
We are now being lured as drive-in
cinema sitters
By the offer of banana splits and delicious
banana fritters.
This has its appealing aspect, but I’ll
sing no hosanna
For a banana.
It might do well enough when we are
idling with Marilyn Monroe on some
otherwise-deserted seashore
For someone to come along and offer us
a papaw ;
But what I need at most of the films I
drive the car to
Is neither a banana nor a passionfruit
but a nice overripe tomato.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
DRY-ICE AND MARS
TF you happen to see a green shipper
■*- labelled “Peters Ice Cream” in the
dome of an astronomical telescope it’s
not a sign of midnight feasting by the
astronomers but an insulated container
for dry-ice (solid carbon-dioxide).
Dry-ice is commonly used for packing
frozen delicacies, but astronomers need
it for refrigerating photo-multiplier
tubes, used for photo-electric measure-
ments of starlight.
Ordinary photo-cells, such as are used
in burglar-alarms and automatic-opening
doors, conduct an electric current when
light falls on them. They are not sensi-
tive enough to respond to starlight, except
for a few of the brightest stars.
But a new type of cell called the photo-
multiplier tube, developed during World
War 11, amplifies the electric current over
a millionfold within the cell itself.
The photo-multiplier is so sensitive
that even in total darkness it produces
a considerable electric current, due to the
spontaneous evaporation of electrons
from the metal surfaces inside it.
This “dark current” can be reduced by
refrigerating the cell, and this is done by
packing dry-ice into a wooden box
surrounding the cell.
Dry-ice evaporates slowly without
melting, and can be kept for a few days
in a well-insulated container. Hence the
use of icecream-shippers.
Astronomers quickly realised the
potentialities of the photo-multiplier,
which has now become one of the most
powerful tools for exploring the astro-
nomical universe. The brightness of any
star or planet can be measured with it in
a minute or two with accuracy of 1 per
cent.
This method has already been used
extensively at the Commonwealth
Observatory, near Canberra, by Aus-
tralian, French, South African and
American astronomers.
This week’s opposition of Mars (Sep-
tember 10) is the closest approach of this
planet since the development of the
photo-multiplier, with the new technique
being applied to Mars at several observa-
tories.
The planet’s disk, after enlargement by
a telescope, is scanned by the photo-
multiplier tube, and the variation of
brightness across the disk is recorded on
a moving strip of paper. Reliable records
can only be obtained when the tube is
refrigerated in dry-ice.
Analysis of the records will supply
valuable new information about the
planet’s surface and atmosphere, which
will help in assessing the possibility of
life occurring there.
E. J. BURR.


(BSOTIMKf® -«n/ HjDIWMI
& s
mm
i X
We
V,
*vJ
»0"
lN
LJ
n
K
r« v
COVEN
yi*
Q
i m
yo
C 2
* ?
o
>±2i
s
GR E E N
<>>■>
2<>oo
QM3*
6
OaOO
OoOq PARK
mmk
>■>00000000:>0}
ms
V,
©
OUST! TUTI OH NIL.
£=ST
** jr^Vs.v
9. **„ ‘>
O <4 t*
o
/■
> o <> <?•
&**££
i
O^r,
<* i> o Xv?
o^o
0)
1 Buckingham 4 Dufee of Yorfc
Palace Statue
2 Horse Guards 5 Nelson's Column
3 Admiralty 6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
O!
x
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For , after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure —when only the best will do?
*
BY APPOINTMINT
Benson a™/. Hedges
OLD BOND STREET •LONDON • W
mz
m
?*v ; 'tf A
W
New Floor Tile
is resistant to dirt
and grease
Latest flooring development is Vinylflex. Tests have
proved that this Vinyl plastic-asbestos material is
scuff, chip and stain resistant. Spill drinks, chemicals,
alkalies even hot fat! You just wipe it off with
a damp cloth. Tough Vinylflex floors repel dirt.
Walk, work, dance on them even after years
they’ll keep their "just-laid” look. And they come in
nine brilliant jewel colours that go clear through to
the back of the tile.
CNR
Vinyl plastic-asbestos
Ploor Tiles
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Our Political Economy
THE inflation problem is still
very much with us. It tran-
scends all other such considera-
tions, being both a cause and a
manifestation of so many things
that are wrong in Australia at
present. It is largely a cause of
the adverse balance-of-payments,
and a manifestation of the
political problems of the
country, including the division
of authority and responsibility
between the Commonwealth and
the States. It is also a mani-
festation of the disregard of the
principle of a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay, and for the
consequent despair (and some-
times the inefficiency) of manage-
ments. Further, it is partly a
manifestation of the influences
that a malign foreign Power can
exercise in a democratic country.
Perhaps most of all the infla-
tion problem indicates the extent
to which initiative, political and
industrial, has been taken from
the people, through their own
economic and political lethargy,
and vested in pressure-groups of
various kinds. The average
citizen just beats the air when
he discusses inflation or is out-
raged by one of its manifesta-
tions. Usually he doesn’t even
begin to understand the division
of authority and responsibility
between Commonwealth and the
States. He doesn’t even know
whom to blame for half the
things that go wrong.
For a young country Australia
has succeeded in making its own
political and economic existence
extremely complex, and is in
danger of becoming senile even
before it matures. Simplification
of our political economy is a
challenge to our leadership,
being, as it is, a necessity for a
country still, in some respects,
not far removed from the
“frontier” state.
\
Technologists
T'vELIVERING the annual
presidential address to the
Chamber of Manufactures of
N.S.W., Mr. John G. Hurley
touched on the shortage of
engineers and technologists in
Australian industry. This short-
age is part of the pattern of
events in other parts of the
Western world.
“When we speak of technolo-
gists,” said Mr. Hurley, “we
generally mean scientists,
trained in a university to apply
knowledge and skill to industry
as a civil, mechanical, electrical,
chemical, metallurgical engineer,
or a scientist required in the
textile, plastics, glass, rubber
industries, and so on, where
special branches of science are
in demand.
“There is a dangerous short-
age of such men. Today a study
of the University Appointment
Boards shows that about six
times the number of engineering
jobs, for example, are offering
as there are graduates to fill
them.
“This is despite the fact that
between 1939 and 1953 the
number of engineering graduates
increased nearly six times and
that engineering students rose
from 6 p.c. to about 13 p.c. of
all students enrolled, or nearly
as high as in the United King-
dom.
“I think it is time that industry,
as the first beneficiary of these
skills, took accent of the situ-
ation, discovered its require-
ments and put itself in a posi-
tion to give a lead not merely to
our universities and technical
colleges, but to the community
as a whole as well.
“We should bear in mind that
the U.S.S.R. is now producing
nearly 55,000 engineering
graduates a year, and in propor-
tion to the population that is
about five or six times as many
as Australia or Great Britain,
and 2\ times as many as the
U.S.A.”
Professor A. J. Francis, of the
Department of Civil Engineering
of the University of Melbourne,
has estimated that Australia
“That’s the idea , boys—be ready for a quick getaway.”
could absorb three times the
present output of engineering
graduates and technicians.
Zircon Rutile
-pOLLOWING a final div. of
60 p.c. (15 p.c. tax-free),
making 80 p.c. for the year,
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., is to recon-
struct.
Share-premiums are to be
capitalised on an 18-for-100
basis, after which a holding co.
will be formed, and it will issue
four fully-paid 10s. shares for
every one held.
Zircon Rutile’s present paid
capital is £127,500 in 255,000 10s.
fully-paid shares. After the
capitalisation of share-premiums
the issue will rise to 300,900 10s.
shares. These will then be
exchanged for 1,203,600 10s.
shares in the holding co.
The price of the Zircon Rutile
shares, cum div. and bonus-
issue, has been around £B.
This price is not justified on
last year’s distribution of Bs. a
share. If an assured dividend
equal to 20s. per present share
were in the offing, with adequate
profit-coverage and good ore-
reserve and price - prospects,
the position would be more
reasonable.
B.H.P.’s Profit-ploughing
PROBLEMS which B.H.P. has
•*- to overcome in carrying-out
its plans to cope with the
national demand for steel are
typical of other industries, and,
to an extent, of the Common-
wealth Government.
B.H.P. has had successive
problems of manpower, materials
and money. Shortage of man-
power and materials three years
back made it difficult for any
concern to take advantage of
the greater volume of funds then
available for investment. Now
that the materials position is
easier, money is tighter—and
dearer. So, with a huge £ 100-
million expansion-plan contem-
plated over the next five years,
B.H.P. intends to rely largely
on ploughed-back profits in order
to finance the programme. This
is to an extent in line with the
Commonwealth Government’s
policy of financing its own
capital-works out of revenue.
It is made necessary by the
inadequacy of production and
the lack of savings for invest-
ment, thus leading to a form of
compulsory saving and compul-
sory investment.
Unfortunately for concerns
like 8.H.P., before, say, £6OO
can be ploughed-back in the form
of profit, the Commonwealth
Government must be handed
£4OO in income-tax. This taxing
of companies without adequate
regard for depreciation and
renewal of working assets is one
of the country’s greatest
economic anomalies and dangers.
In March, 1955, B.H.P. esti-
mated that its expenditure on
plant-expansion would amount
to at least £67 million spread
over the following five years.
Since then there has been no
basic change in plans, and some
of this £67-million project has
already been completed ahead of
schedule because of greater
availability of labor and
materials.
But there have been modifi-
cations and improvements which
have substantially increased
estimated expenditure, and there
have been increases in costs, due
largely to inflation. As a result,
installations which are now
planned to take place up to
1960-61 will involve an ex-
penditure which, on today’s
price-levels, is estimated to
exceed £lOO million. Should
inflation continue at current
rates over the next four or five
years, today’s estimate will be
substantially increased.
From the point of view of
Australia’s steel requirements,
B.H.P. doesn’t regard its plans
as being over-ambitious, but,
with the capital shortage that
has now developed in our
economy, the task of financing
such development is not an easy
one.
“As soon as convenient after
October,” B.H.P. intends to
make a further share-issue —one
for five, at par.
But a most important source
of finance will be internal funds
—that is, provisions for depreci-
ation and replacement of assets
and the amount of profit that
remains after paying dividends.
B.H.P. hopes that such internal
funds will make a contribution
beyond that available from other
sources.
At the present juncture the
(Continued on next page)


ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instrument*
,or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
/ accuracy guaranteed
JACS&OBS O'SUUIVANfeI*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
4'
eSBH
A
U \
/
Vi
rs
'Ljjr
A
ttttt
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more^convenienV
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
A-N-Z
W
A N Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
, Agents throughout the World.
>ANZ. 94.2484 1
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
a week-end drive
*
costs less
a
on the
multi-bonus
BENZOL
blends
SUPER
STANDARD
The BENZOL in BP
SUPER and C.O.R gives
these fine motor spirits
the multi-bonus advan-
tages of
1. BETTER STARTING
2. BETTER
PERFORMANCE
3. BETTER MILEAGE
' —all of which add up to
4. MAXIMUM MOTOR-
ING ECONOMY
Only BP Super and C.O.R exclusively contain BENZOL
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Limited 1/C429D
speed of carrying-out B.H.P.’s
programme depends more on
these matters of finance than on
the availability of materials and
manpower. In this respect the
situation has changed markedly
during the last year.
If unlimited finance were now
available on reasonable terms
B.H.P. believes it could now
advance faster than it is planning
to do, but, on the other hand,
if finance should be further
restricted then the planned rate
of development will be adversely
affected.
Although this matter of ex-
panding capacity is a dominating
one, B.H.P. contends that it is
not Hosing sight of the import-
ance of trying to maintain a
reasonable price for Australian
steel. Even so, costs have in-
creased substantially, and in
particular the costs of raw
materials and transport. Both
have affected steel prices, and
during 1955-56 it became neces-
sary to increase steel prices
twice. Nevertheless, the price of
Australian steel to Australian
consumers still remains generally
below the comparable domestic
prices in the United Kingdom
and in the U.S.A.
Chairman C. York Syme
frankly says that to the extent
that expensive new plant and
equipment have to be financed
by share-capital and borrowed
money, the price of steel has to
be adequate to care for dividends
and interest. To the extent to
which B.H.P. is able to finance
expansion out of internal funds,
no servicing charge for this
finance is required, and the co.
is hopeful of being able to
finance a good deal of expansion
out of internal funds. If hopes
are realised, this should mean
that future steel prices will be
less affected by present high
capital costs than would other-
wise be the case.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
YI7HILE neither depression nor
’ * pessimism was noticeable
at this year’s National Radio
Show, there were evidences that
this industry, naturally one of
the first to be attacked, is mark-
ing time under the restraints of
the credit-squeeze, the tighter
restrictions on hire-purchase, and
the 60 p.c. purchase-tax.
This is always a fascinating
exhibition, probably because the
industry is young, virile,
mysterious in its technical com-
plexities and yet closely-linked
to public entertainment and the
home. Usually, an easy afflu-
ence pervades the stands, both
in the nature of the prototypes
and in the mien of the exhibitors,
apparently surtax - payers of
astounding and esoteric know-
ledge.
The exhibits, at least, have lost
their affluent look. Obviously,
the industry is as adaptable as it
is forward-looking, for it has con-
trived, with great ingenuity, to
bring prices down. This has not
been done by any reduction in
quality (pictures are clearer and
brighter and reproduction is
truer) nor, one imagines, by
cutting profit-margins. Manu-
facturers have eliminated “frills”
from models for sale in areas of
good reception and have intro-
duced more economical methods
of production and assembly.
Television-sets have fewer valves
or are designed more cheaply
from printed circuits—a British
invention which has led to mass-
production at lower costs. Or
moulded plastic cabinets may be
substituted for wood, represent-
ing a 15 p.c. saving.
The effect of the Chancellor’s
measures is clearly reflected in
the following tables. The figures
quoted are the average per month
in thousands:
Production of Television Sets
Total For Col. (3) as
Period. Produced. Home percentage
Sales of col. (2)
(1) (2) (3) (4)
1955 148 1 141 90
1956 106 67 63
(first 6
mouths)
Retailers’ Sales
Period. Number.
1955 111
1956 35
(first six months)
Bush Gramophone?
Something germanium is
extracted from soot, treated with
what was described as “hospital
cleanliness” and becomes a
transistor. This, smaller than
the plug on the aerial lead, does
the work of a valve and requires
only a low current.
It will, one gathers, be some
years before this potent midget
becomes universal, but already
it is extending from the particular
(hearing-aids) to the portable
wireless-set. An all-transistor
portable is on show and will
run for 1000 hours on four
small torch-batteries, receiving
programmes at distances up to
100 miles. The price is 30
guineas (English).
Developments in sound repro-
duction, wonderful enough foj*
the townsman, have so far
brought only frustration to the
music-lover in remote places
where a supply of the essential
alternating current is erratic or
non-existent. It is good news
that transistor gramophones will
soon be on the market.
One record-player inspected
at the show weighs only 81b. and
will give 220 hours’ playing on
the motive-power of two 4^-volt
batteries. Another one, priced
at 25 guineas, can also be used
with a microphone, for “baby-
listening” and domestic intercom.
These models are not for the
connoisseur of music. They are
designed for the popular market
and will take 7in. records only.
But a model is in production that
will take all types and speeds of
records.
There is no reason why, in a
few years’ time, the man-on-the-
land should not enjoy as high a
standard of musical reproduction
as the town-dweller. And even
now the recluse, explorer or
overlander has recourse to a
portable gramophone which is
remarkably light, handy and of
good performance.
Yet another development of
great potential value is the
transistor loudhailer, which
weighs only 51b. and has a
range of over 400 yards.
Inside
Rarely nowadays does a play
from a Little Theatre reach the
commercial West End. “The
Quare Fellow” is such an
instance. When first put on by
the Theatre Workshop—a pro-
gressive, Leftish and well-
conducted group organisation
which operates in the grimy
fastnesses of Stratford, E. —it
provoked some mild excitement.
For it dealt with prison life and,
in particular, with capital
punishment, then a subject of
topical controversy.
Moreover, it introduced a
new writer, Brendan Behan,
whose character verged upon
notoriety. An Irishman who
had spent eight of his 33 years
in British prisons for I.R.A.
activities, he could 1 obviously
write from first-hand. Then, in
a television interview he
suddenly reached nation-wide
notoriety by being incoherently
drunk.
So, when his play opened at
the Comedy Theatre, the identity
of the author was not in doubt.
In truth, the play is not at all
what might have been expected.
There is no bitterness, no pro-
paganda and no rebelliousness.
The approach is objective, both
as to warders and convicts, and
the whole comes over as a true
and forceful documentary,
especially at the beginning. It
makes very good theatre, for it
presents dispassionately a side of
life which none of us would
want to experience other than
vicariously. And where better
than the theatre for that?
The implied drama is com-
pulsive and powerful: not only
because of the undisclosed case-
histories of the reprieved wife-
murderer, the sex-maniac and
other, more natural if less out-
rageous, wrongdoers but also
because of the juxtaposition of
differing mentalities and social
types in the prison-block and
exercise-yard.
Nor does the author take sides
on capital punishment. Instead,
he makes the morbidity that
grows and spreads, as the execu-
tion-date of the “quare fellow”
comes nearer fulfil the dramatic
function of main artery to the
play, culminating with a com-
mentary, in the manner of a
race-meeting, on the procession
to the scaffold. If by this time
the material has worn itself out
and the humor, at times authentic
and ripe, has become forced, at
least the theatre has gained some
worth-while social documenta-
tion.
Brief Judgments
Seeing T. S. Eliot’s “The
Family Reunion” after “The
Cocktail Party” and “The Con-
fidential Clerk” inspires the con-
clusion that verse unashamedly
written as verse is incomparably
preferable to verse disguised as
prose. This piece is now fully its
age but contains beautiful
language and subtends a fine
tragic dignity. After Anouilh’s
clearer delineation it is not easy
to reconcile the mythological
allusions, but the acting oppor-
tunities are fulsome and well-
taken —notably by Sybil Thorn-
dike, whose classic poise is sheer
loveliness.
“Cranks,” a revue devised by
John Cranko, the choreographer,
is interesting because it breaks
all the rules and flaunts all the
conventions. Intelligent, blase
and faintly cynical, it has no
glamor, no topicality and no
known antecedents (except, per-
haps, an affinity with the mood
of the early ’thirties). If most
of the material is, probably with
deliberation, undistinguished the
improvisation is certainly not.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
V,-*
*js
! W||'
4*S
*’t.
-xa*
Vtf
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J. R. Faviell F. B. Fleming
Manager: JV, L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officers
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.113.1S
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
HTHE strain placed on the Australian
economy by defence outgo, migra-
tion and rapid industrial development,
as well as by the related problem of
matching imports with exports, has led
to a considerable degree of governmental
control over trading-bank activities.
Nevertheless, scrip in the trading-banks
offers a high degree of security both as
to capital and dividends, with the oppor-
tunity, over a period of years, of
participation in new issues.
Shareholders in the 122-year-old Com-
mercial Banking Co. of Sydney were
offered a one-for-four par issue in 1954,
which lifted paid capital to £6-million
in £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. The
uncalled £l2 10s. is regarded as a capital-
reserve to be called-up only in extra-
ordinary circumstances. The C.B.C.
Savings Bank, Ltd., was opened in July
last, and, with the parent-bank, operates
in all States, the co.’s main interests being
in Victoria, New South Wales and
Queensland.
Rising by £2O-million in the previous
term, advances during the year ended
June 30 remained fairly steady, an in-
crease of £ 1.7-million bringing the total
to £ 104.6-million. At this level the bank’s
available funds were fully employed, and,
with higher interest-rates applying at the
close of the term, there was an increase
of £20,968, to £648,264, in net profit
after making unstated provisions for
taxation and contingencies and doubling
(to £50,000) the amount written-off bank
premises:
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4,808,660
1952.. 443.843 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,382
1953.. 470,625 8 „ ~379,121 25,000 4,914,886
Surplus sale shares, £43,303 .. 4,958,189
1954.. 528,777 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 5,082,845
1955.. 627,296 8i „ „ 508,314 25,000 5,176,827
Inner reserves revealed, £1,500,000 .. 6,676,827
1956.. 648,264 9 p.c. = 540,000 50,000 6,735,091
Dividend was stepped-up to 9 p.c.,
requiring an N extra £31,686 ; earnings
represented 10.8 p.c. on paid capital,
compared with 10.4, 11.1, 9.9 and 9.3 p.c.
back to 1952. The return on total
shareholders’ funds (adding the solid
reserves to capital) was 5.1 p.c.
The balance-sheet figures reflect
current economic pressures, a drop of
£ 10.8-million in deposits and a small
increase in advances reducing liquid
assets by £12.2-million to £92.7-million.
The special deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank was reduced to £3O-million
by the release of £4.4-million:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital £5,925,600 £6,000,000 £6,000,000
Reserves .. 5,082,845 6,176,827 6,735,091
Owing to sub-
sidiary .. 1,000,000
Notes .. 13,497 13,491 13,490
Deposits* .. 202,950,453 199,609,165 188,723,837
Due other
banks .. 1,130,736 1,149,964 745,517
Final div. 189,560 270,000 270,000
£215,292,691 £212,219,447 £203,487,935
Liquids . . 83,940,901 70,644,110 62,774,109
Special a/c 45,300,000 34,400,000 30,000,000
Advances .. 82,436,951 102,925,556 104,622,764
Premises, etc. 1,668,344 1,828,298 2,226,476
Shares sub-
sidiary .. 1,000,000
Other assets 1,946,495 2,421,483 2,864,587
£215,292,691 £212,219,447 £203,487,936
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The ratio of advances to deposits rose
to 55.4 p.c., the highest since 1942, but,
despite the reduction by over £B-million
in the holdings of Treasury bills and
Government securities, liquid assets
equalled 48.9 p.c. of outside liabilities.
Published reserves benefited from the
disclosure of a £ 1.5-million currency-
adjustment account, created when the
Australian currency was devalued in
1931, and now exceed paid capital by
£735,091.
There is little likelihood of any expan-
sion of bank-credit, financial conditions
calling rather for greater emphasis on
savings. The C.B.C. Savings Bank com-
menced trading in the current term
(receiving over £4-million in deposits in
the first three weeks), and it is hoped that
the savings habit will be stimulated by
the entry of three trading-banks into the
“savings” field.
At £2O 3s. the £l2 10s. shares would
return 5.6 p.c. from a 9 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is £26 10s. 9d.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd. '
YX/ITH its headquarters in Rockhamp-
' ’ ton, Queensland’s third city, this 55-
year-old general merchant has trading
interests throughout the northern State.
Always strongly connected with the graz-
ing and farming industries, especially in
the centre and central-west of Queens-
land, the co. has extended its activities
since the war by the purchase of retail-
stores, hotels and pastoral
Last year it acquired the remaining
capital of W. H. Paxton and Co., Ltd.,
in the prosperous sugar-centre of
Mackay, which brought the total value
of shares in subsidiary companies, at cost,
to £564,664, the biggest single item on
the right-hand side of the balance-sheet.
Separate trading results for these
concerns are not published, nor are the
dividends received from them by the
parent co., but turnovers of the group
appear to be expanding.
Bad weather during the second half
of the 1955-56 term created special
problems for the pastoral section of the
business and slowed-up activity generally
in rural areas; and, with strikes to add
to difficulties, the year was not an easy
one. Gross earnings of the parent rose
£36,762 to £402,214, of which manage-
ment expenses, taxation, etc., took
£333,519 (up £32,017) and depreciation
£14,466 (down £1714):
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1951 .. 43,062 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,062 504,496
Added contingency reserve, £7821 .. 511,777
1952 .. 54,876 15 p.c. = 30,000 24,876 536,653
Unexplained additions, £4158 .. 540,812
1953 .. 42,648 20 p.c. = 40,000 2,648 543,460
Unexplained addition, £16,8(54 .. 560,294
1954 .. 43,241 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,241 563,535
Assets revaluation reserve, £51,000 614/535
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 564,535
Unexplained addition, £48,938 .. 613,473
1955 .. 47,770 18 p.c. = 41,250 6,520 619,993
Unexplained addition, £29,730 .. 649,723
1956 .. 54,229 18 p.c. = 50,680 3,649 653,372
Up £6459, the £54,229 net profit claimed
was a shade under the previous year’s
return on average capital, 19.3 p.c. as
against 19.5 p.c. Counting the £29,730
(down £19,208) slipped into contingency
reserves as genuine profit, net earnings in
1956 were £83,959 or 29.9 p.c. on mean
capital compared with 38.6 p.c. in 1954-55.
The 18 p.c. dividend thus looks more
secure than the figures suggest at a first
glance.
Because business is expanding and con-
tinual delays have made deliveries
uncertain, the co. was carrying £93,493
heavier stocks (in at cost or under at
£540,431) at the end of the term. Another
£11,380 was added to debtors, too,
financed on trade credit (up £61,216) and
cash (down £35,333 to £10,972):
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £250,000 £312,000
Reserves .. .. 563,535 619,993 653,372
Creditors .. ... 108,172 106,923 168,139
Due subsids. .. 150,914 127,102 124,059
Tax provision .. 180,508 172,307 144,332
Final div. .. 25,000 26,250 28,080
£1,228,129 £1,302,575 £1,429,982
Freeholds and plant 56,980 108,107 106,041
Shares subsids. .. 505,893 505,892 564,664
Shares other cos... 2,280 2,285 3,446
Stocks .. .. 421,308 446,938 540,431
Book debts .. 212,747 193,048 204,428
Cash .. .. 28,926 46,305 10,972
£1,228,129 £1,302,575 £1,429,982
Acquisition of the Mackay business was
covered by the exchange of 62,000 £1
shares in Walter Reid for the £37,200
capital owned by W- H. Paxton
shareholders.
The annual report gives no indication
that new capital will be required in the
near future, but with the co.’s past record
as a dividend-payer (average distribution
over the last decade was 16.9 p.c.) and
distributor of bonus scrip (£156,250 has
been transferred from reserves since 1910)
the sharemarket prices the £1 shares at
635. (70s. a year ago), to return 5.7 p.c.
on the basis of an 18 p.c. div. On dis-
closed book-values net tangibles provide
a solid cover of 61s. lid. a share.
General Credits, Ltd.
OVER the last few years the trading-
banks have shown an understandable
interest in the activities of their pro-
gressive young relatives —the hire-
purchase cos. Comparatively free from
the credit-limitations imposed on the
banks, the h.-p. cos. have expanded
rapidly and profitably, providing services
similar, in many respects, to those offered
by the banks.
General Credits, Ltd., is the latest
finance house to be linked with a trading-
bank, the proposed issue to the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia giving it a
45 p.c. holding in the finance co. and
bringing in £785,500 of new capital. The
recently-announced one-for-five par issue
will provide a further £160,000, lifting
paid capital to £1,745,500, over twice its
present size.
These changes have stimulated public
interest in the co., forcing the ss. shares
up to 7s. 3d. to return 6.9 p.c., following
a June “low” of ss. lid. After early
sales at 2s. Id., the rights are offering at
Is. lOd. The latest accounts, to April, ’56,
reveal a net tangible cover of a little
over ss. 3d. for the shares issued at the
end of the term.
Sponsored by tl\e Automobile, Fire
and General Insurance Co. in 1953,
General Credits was first listed on the
Melbourne ’Change in March, ’55, fol-
lowing the issue of 2,000,000 shares,
600,000 of which were made available to
shareholders in the parent co. Financing
the purchase of motor-vehicles, house-
hold goods and electrical appliances, the
co. initially found most of its business
close to the Melbourne head-office, but,
after extending its activities to cover
Victoria and the Riverina, opened a
branch in Perth. A Brisbane office will
be opened within a few weeks.
During the term covered by the latest
accounts, the amount outstanding under
h.-p. contracts almost doubled, rising by
£1,768,316 to £3,702,227 while debentures
and deposits, the main source of funds,
rose by £1,391,695 to £2,169,400. Net
profit at £104,811 is up by £43,680 after
providing an extra £36,920 for taxation
(£70,395) and allowing £l9ll (up £1131)
for depreciation:
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. , Dividend >, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Flotation expenses, £22,598..? in nor
1955.. 61,131 10 p.c. = 25,888 ]
Tax overprovided, £26 .. .. .. 18,987
1956. .104,811 10 p.e. = 80,000 24,811 43,798
Earnings equal a return of 13.1 p.c. on
paid capital compared with 23.6 p.c. on
the much lower average capital utilised
in the previous term. The unchanged
10 p.c. div. required an extra £54,167 to
cover the higher capital, reserves growing
by £24,811 over the year.
The rapid growth of the co. in its
third year of trading can be seen from a
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1950 1950
Paid capital .. .. £BOO,OOO £BOO,OOO
Reserves .. .. .. 18,961 43,798
Debentures and deposits .. 777,705 2,169,400
Creditors, etc. .. .. 67,064 131,265
Unearned income .. .. 287,459 503,031
Tax provision .. .. 38,621 70,395
Final div 18,333 40,000
£2,003,143 £3,757,889
Office equipment .. .. 7,064 17,441
H.-p. contracts .. " .. 1,983,911 -3,702,227
Cash 62,168 38,221
£2,003,143 £3,757,889
Debentures and deposits amount to only
2.7 times paid capital, a conservative
ratio which will be further reduced by the
proposed share-issues. As a high earning-
rate on capital is dependent on a strong
holding of outside money, an extensive
borrowing programme seems likely.
A 10 p.c. distribution on the increased
capital would call for £174,550, or
£69,739 more than the term’s earnings,
but the facilities provided by the bank’s
numerous branches will assist the co. as
it seeks to expand its turnover and
earnings.
Nor’-West Whaling Co., Ltd.
■pARNING profits at a highly satis-
factory rate over the past five years,
the prospects of Nor’-West Whaling Co.
have been further enhanced by the
purchase in the current financial year of
the Carnarvon (W.A.) whaling-station
from the Commonwealth Government.
Incorporated as a proprietary co. in 1950
(to acquire the business of a partnership
which had operated from Pt. Cloates in the
the previous year), Nor’-West obtained
public status in 1951, an issue of 196,000
shares in that year raising paid capital
to its present level of £270,000 in 10s.
ords. The current 20 p.c. div.-rate was
. established by the first distribution as
a public co. in 1952.
The co. is well equipped with chasers
and auxiliary craft, the catch being
treated at Pt. Cloates (and now Carnarvon
as well), where the oil is extracted for
sale, mainly to European buyers. Apart
from its nutritive value, the oil is sought
for several manufacturing processes,
including the production of nitro-
glycerine, while the carcass is utilised in
stock- and poultry-feed (whale-meal) or
fertiliser, both products finding a ready
market in Australia.
A world shortage of oils and edible fats
has stimulated interest in whaling, and
to prevent a serious depletion of numbers
the International Whaling Commission
allocates quotas to the various whaling
areas. Lifting Nor’-West’s quota to 1000
whales, the Carnarvon station carries a
quota of 500, which in the 1954 season
were treated (under Government owner-
ship) for a tax-exempt profit of £223,189.
Covering the 1955 season, the Nor’-
West accounts to March 31 last show that
the reduction of 100 in the co.’s previous
quota of 600 whales was offset by an
increase in the average weight of the
catch and the higher prices obtained for
the oil. A yield of 4162 tons (down
538 tons) of oil was obtained, but the
Value increased by £7322 to £443,092.
Production of whale-meal fell slightly,
but again higher prices resulted in an
increased return, a fall of £5474 in net
earnings being due to the substantially
higher provision for taxation (up £29,500
to £81,500). A net profit of £110,915
was disclosed, after allowing £36,157.
(down £9137) for depreciation:
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. , Dividend serves, serves.
1952. .128,513 20 p.c.= 54,000 74,513 21,663
1953.. 68,724 20 „ „ 54,000 14,724 36,387
Expenses disallowed for taxation,
capitalised, £64,038 .. .. .. 90,425
1954.. 117.908 20 p.c. = 54,000 63,908 154,333
1955. .116,389 20 „ ~ 54,000 62,389 216,722
Tax overprovided, £7312 .. .. 224,034
Loss sale assets, £3544 .. .. 220,490
3956. .110,915 20 p.c. = 54,000 56,916 277,405
Earnings exceeded the 20 p.c. div. by
£56,915 ; they were equal to 41.1 p.c. on
capital, compared with 43.1, 43.6, 25.4
and 47.6 p.c. back to 1952.
The co. proposes to find the £BBO,OOO
needed for the Carnarvon purchase
without calling on shareholders for extra
capital. A £350,000 deposit has been paid
in the current term; and, if earnings are
maintained, undistributed profits will
take care of a large portion of the
balance, due over the next three years.
Outside money may be used to meet
the seasonal demand for funds, and a
reduction can be expected in the large
holdings of cash and bonds (almost equal
to paid capital) which have given a high


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDO W Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3j ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O’Sullivan [|J;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers end Printers
304*306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Hitt Street, Sydney,
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation apd supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation
RAWLINGS & GARDNER P t v
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, G.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Marks.—Advt.
In 5 Years, your money will earn
£525 instead of £175!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£s's'-% LOAN
Offers you a Government-guaranteed
income that far exceeds savings bank interest!
The more you invest for 5 years, the
greater the difference in interest!
• YOU DECIDE whether the N.S.W. Government will guarantee you this higher
interest for 5, 10 or 20 years.
• YOUR INTEREST is payable every six months. Have it credited direct to your
bank account.
• NO EXCHANGE TO PAY. Your Loan investment, regular interest payments
and repayment of principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the
Prospectus.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. Trust Funds—includ-
ing Superannuation, Provident, Church, Club and Medical Benefits—can earn
£5/5/- per cent each year.
• 10% DEPOSIT ACCEPTED. If you do not wish to invest, say, £250 imme-
diately, you can lodge £25 deposit. You will have until 15th November,
1956, to pay the balance.
• YOUR INVESTMENT IS QUICKLY ARRANGED at any Commonwealth Trading
Bank, through a Stockbroker, or at the Sydney Water Board.
STEP-UP YOUR INCOME FOR THE NEXT
5 YEARS BY INVESTING TO-DAY!
Loan No. 156, issued at par, closes not later than 22nd September, 1956,
and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
WBL6B-56
degree of liquidity to the balance-
sheet :
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. .. £270,000 £270.000
Reserves . . .. 216,723 277,406
Creditors . . . . 15,145 5,295
Tax provision .. 142,697 81,500
Final div 27,000 27,000
£671,565 £661,201
Plant and machinery 200,339 218,396
Vessels 114,639 102,054
Other fixed assets . . 33,230 35,494
Stocks and stores . . 30,563 34,625
Debtors . . . . 1,285 5,764
Cash, bonds, etc. .. 291,509 269,868
£671,565 £661,201
Working-capital improved over
the term, increasing by £57,947
to £223,462, the reduction of
£21,641 in cash and bonds
being accompanied by a fall of
£9850 in creditors and £61,197
in the provision for taxation.
A delayed start at Carnarvon
may prevent the co. from obtain-
ing the full benefit from that
station in the current term, but
while whale-oil prices remain
favorable the co.’s prosperity
seems assured, the doubling of
its quota by the purchase of the
new station providing some safe-
guard against any future reduc-
tion by the International Whaling
Commission.
At 295. the 10s. shares return
6.9 p.c. from the 20 p.c. distribu-
tion, net tangible backing
amounting to 225. 9d. The scrip
is traded on Melbourne and
Perth ’Changes.
E. A. Greenwood, Ltd.
TMPORT- and credit-restrictions
hamper the activities of this
now-publicly-owned Sydney im-
porter and indent-agent, but the
latest accounts, to June 30 last,
show that the co. has regained
some of the ground lost in the
previous term, a “reasonable” in-
crease in sales (undisclosed)
supported by agency commis\
sions enabling an improvement
in net earnings.
After allowing an extra £B2
for depreciation (£447) and
estimating the taxation com-
missioner’s share at £4750 (up
£1750), net profit was £1553
higher at £7612, showing 15.2
p.c. on the £50,000 paid capital.
Reserves were £612 stronger at
£3882 after covering the un-
changed 10 p.c. div. and writing-
off the £2OOO at which goodwill
appeared.
Stocks were brought down by
£27,727 to £41,261, the funds
released being used to eliminate
the £14,184 owing to the bank
at the commencement of the
term, and to reduce the amount
due to creditors, etc., by £10,417
to £12,232. This was a commend-
able effort, no doubt appreciated
by all concerned. Fixed assets, at
cost, less depreciation, increased
by £lBOO, and are now valued at
£3750, while debtors were £3039
higher at £26,801.
With immediate prospects
limited by current economic
conditions the market prices the
ss. shares at 4s. 9d., to return
10.5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. distri-
bution. Net tangible assets
provide cover of a little under
ss. sd. per share.
Cape York Minerals
[From “H.K.N.Cairns]
TN B. 29/8/’56 there were
several references to Cape
York Peninsula (Q.) and its
potentialities. “Nedrium” men-
tioned that the peninsula is
mostly cattle country. That is
the case at present, but its real
wealth is in minerals, and this
wealth is about to be exploited.
Practically all the east coast
is being held by various cos. for
beach-sands, as well as hundreds
of square miles on the west coast,
where the huge bauxite deposit
referred to by W. S. Robinson,
of Collins House, is being
speedily investigated. However,
bauxite is very plentiful through-
out the peninsula ; a lease has
been taken up (several hundred
miles from the Consolidated
Zinc deposit) where there is
bauxite in great quantities along-
side a pegmatite lode carrying
high-class Muscovite mica in
large “books.” Not far away is
a big deposit of graphite and
another mica area, also
apparently of large-size “books”
judging by the weathered out-
crop, and a short distance away
is what appears to be a consider-
able body of wolfram-bearing
ore.
All these are lying idle in a
very small area of the penin-
sula. Further away, towards
the east, there is tin, both
lode and alluvial, only the
alluvial being worked. At the
base of the peninsula there are
many “shows” of high-grade
copper. The Palmer goldfield is
in the same locality, and the
reefs there were only partly
worked because values dimin-
ished when they passed out of
black-slate country into sand-
stone ; but some claim that the
black slate comes in again at a
comparatively shallow depth, the
gold-content being again high.
This was proved in the Comet
mine in 1893, but financial
trouble throughout Australia put
an end to work. All the mines on
the field filled-up with water and
have remained unworked.
Towards the north of the
peninsula the Batavia goldfield
was worked a few years ago for
returns that in some cases were
fantastic. It is now being worked
again.
On the east coast, near Port-
land Roads (deep water), lies the
Iron Range, a huge deposit of
ironstone with coal alongside,
and from there southwards are
numerous proclaimed goldfields
—e,g., Bowden, Coen, Hamilton,
Rocky, Starcke, Alice, Potallah
Creek, Hodgkinson, Palmer and
the Cooktown gold-and-mineral
field, where tin is the mineral
mostly worked. At the base of
the peninsula lie the Chillagoe
and Etheridge fields and Croydon
goldfield, all of which have been
worked, and are connected by
railway to ports.
Except for Cooktown, Chilla-
goe and Etheridge, which are
gazetted as mineral fields, all the
others are goldfields only, the
reason no doubt being the
romance of goldmining, and also
the fact that base metals in the
past were too low in value to
justify prospecting, and also too
far away to justify transport. A
man who was working alluvial
gold in the early days found the
iarge amount of tin in the wash
to be just a nuisance.
Lack of proper road- or rail-
access has hampered develop-
ment, as pointed out by “Ned-
rium.” t At least 80 p.c. of the
peninsula is open forest-country ;
the scrub is mostly on the south-
east corner.
Incidentally, air-transport is
developing, and Bush Pilots Air-
ways, Ltd., based at Cairns, has
a number of Austers which are
in demand for charter-flights,
and are being used to transport
to Cairns for shipment to New-
castle bulk-samples of the
bauxite from Weipa for assay.
I should add that my know-
ledge of the peninsula is from
over sixty years’ residence at the
base of it, and I travel through it
from time to time, the last time
being a fortnight ago.
United Uranium, N.L.
Northern uranium
DEVELOPMENT, N.L.
(N.U.D.), and Uranium Mines,
N.L., have completed a contract
for the sale of a “substantial
tonnage” of pitchblende from
the Elsharana mine for U.S.
dollars. For security reasons,
details of the contract are not
being disclosed, but a profit of
not less than £600,000 is
expected. The actual amount of
profit cannot be ascertained
until mining of pitchblende, now
in progress, is completed. Most
of the pitchblende ore will be
shipped by December, 1956, and
the remainder before June 30,
1957.
After this pitchblende is taken
out, it is reckoned that there
will still remain proved reserves
of uranium-oxide of more than
750,0001 b. for future sale. Of
this quantity, 600,0001 b. can be
economically transported to the
Rum Jungle plant for profitable
treatment. Meanwhile, the
operating subsidiary, United
Uranium, is carrying-out a pro-
gramme of prospecting, drilling
and shaftrsinking in the area
surrounding Elsharana, and the
cos. hope that, by the end of
1957, development of further
ore reserves will, alternatively,
ensure profitable operations
from the direction of a treat-
ment-plant.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
A happy and informal cocktail-party
was given at Ciro’s for over 200 guests by
Assistant U.S. Air Force Attache Major
L. F. Donnelly and Mrs. Donelly to
introduce new U.S. Air Force Attache
Colonel John J. Hussey and Mrs. Hussey.
Massed pink and white blossom and
spring flowers decorated the reception-
rooms. The hostess chose a ballerina
frock of black organza embroidered in a
white flower-design and mounted on black
taffeta. Mrs. Hussey’s full-skirted frock
of black nylon lace was made over palest-
pink. Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the
Premier, wore a draped frock of steel-
grey wool-georgette with a tiny petal-cap
of pink velvet. Mrs. Walker Milner, wife
of the U.S. Arpiy Attache, wore a frock
and jacket of vieux-rose wool; Mrs.
Robert Brumsted (the wife of the U.S.
Assistant Naval Attache) added to her
black frock a tiny matching cap. Mrs.
J. Wiedenmeyer (wife of the U.S. Consul)
also chose a black ensemble.
Other guests were Sir Laurence and
Lady Wackett, Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. J. E. Hewitt, Chief of the U.K.
Liaison Staff Rear-Admiral R. S. Well by
and Mrs. Wellby, Group-Captain P. R.
Beare, R.A.F., and Mrs. Beare, Vice-
Admiral R. R. Dowling and Mrs. Dowl-
ing, Chief of the General Staff Lieut.-
General Sir Henry Wells and Lady Wells,
Lieut.-General Sir Sydney and Lady
Rowell, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Allen, Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Killough, Mr. and Mrs.
Heathcote Wright, and Mr. and Mrs.
“Bing” Molyneux.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Troublemakers,” an American
play by George Beliak, was given its
premiere in the Union Theatre, the
audience including former University
Chancellor Sir Charles Lowe and Lady
Lowe, Sir John Latham and Lady
Latham, Deputy Chancellor Mr. Gilray
and his wife, and Vice-Chancellor Pro-
fessor G. W. Paton and Mrs. Paton. The
theme of the play is the murder of a
university student by fellow-students
because of his so-called un-American
articles in the university paper. The play,
evidently written around the workings of
Senator McCarthy’s committee, seemed
only bewildering.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a farewell-party given for him at
Dynevor, St. Kilda, the former Consul for
China, Mr. T. W. Liu, was presented with
a desk made from Australian woods, of
which he is extremely fond. The party
was arranged by a number of Chinese
citizens and Australian friends, with Sir
Norman Martin chairman of the
organising-group. Unfortunately Mrs.
Liu was unable to be present, as she is in
hospital. Present included Mr. K. Y.
Leung (Mr. Liu’s successor), Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Strange, Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, Mr. J. W. Brophy, Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Tipping, Sir Arthur and Lady
Warner, Lady Beaurepaire, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, Sir Richard and Lady
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. George Wing
Dan, Mrs. F. M. King Mouey and Mr.
and Mrs. K. W. Hobbs.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Stell-Ricks collection of suits and
coats shown at the Chevron was notable
for the textured fabrics in subtle colors.
Apart from the shimmering black
brocades of the rich evening-coats, there
were lustrous shades of oyster, banana,
silver-grey, bronze and gold-and-white.
Fabrics were damasks, brocades and
corded cottons which looked like satin.
A number of the fabrics had an almost
three-dimensional look, with one pattern
in the background, and another, often
Oriental in design, raised over it. In
some the pattern was just a delicate
tracery ; in others, a flower or a leaf was
used for the motif, and these pale colors
blended into a white background.
Predominant theme in the coats was
the one on fitted Princess-lines. Femininity
was the keynote of the suits, for they
were cut to mould the figure, and in all
cases adhered to the classic line. But a
touch of individuality gave a distinctive
air, as in one which had a double-
inverted point set into the front and
centre-back seam. Another style, made
in a loosely-woven wool highlighted by
a fine gold thread, featured a new version
of the waistless suit and had two pleats
in the shoulders for a loose swinging
back. One elegant coat was made in
corded cotton .striped in shades of
television-grey; the stripes were used
diagonally for two panels forming the
skirt-front. Another fitted coat featured
the Empire-line ; an inset-band, ending
in a bow, made a deep V from the
shoulders to halfway down the back.
An afternoon- or cocktail-coat was
made in rich velvet in a pine-green shade.
It had a deep collar and short sleeves
ending in very wide and deep cuffs. Then
there was a grey cotton damask coat
featuring a lace-pattern, the lace looked
as though it were appliqued, rather than
woven into the material. Most attractive
was a suit in navy pure-silk paper-
shantung. The tight-fitting jacket was
edged with white, and the very full skirt
was of cartridge-pleats belling out at the
full hemline. French-ribbon-brocade was
used to make a black theatre-coat lined
with emerald-green silk. It had an
enormous collar, and although it was cut
on very slender lines it widened to a hem,
ample enough to be worn over a full-
skirted frock.
Irene Mitchell, a co-director of the
Little Theatre, South Yarra, had a tribute
paid to her ability when Garnet Carroll
engaged her to produce “Tea and
Sympathy” now running at the Princess.
Irene, who produced the highly successful
“Tiger at the Gate” for the Little Theatre,
is a dynamo of energy and enthusiasm;
in between productions she teaches
stagecraft.
Noted at the premiere of “Tea and
Sympathy” at the Princess: Mrs. Garnet
Carroll’s short frock and coat-ensemble
of black satin, with their pearl and sequin
embroidery; Lady Selleck’s ballerina-
frock of mist-blue guipure-lace; Mrs.
James McGauran’s short full frock of
white organza patterned in Swiss
embroidery; Mrs. Keith Fairlie’s mid-
night-blue and silver brocades; Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson’s brilliant Ming-blue
satin theatre-coat; the short pleated
royal-blue chiffon frock worn by Mrs.
Saul Aarons.
Mrs. W. McDermott wore a short
sheath-frock of white satin brocade with
white Arctic-foxes ; Mrs. Robert Wallace
Mitchell wore white lace over pink
taffeta, Mrs. Malcolm Wallace Mitchell
white, pink-embroidered nylon. Diana
Simpson added to her Oriental ensemble
rhinestone-studded Chinese stick-pins for
her hair ; Jill Millis’s red satin strapless
frock had a short overskirt, with the
underskirt featuring a harem hemline.
Katherine Richard chose off-white satin
brocade, Maureen Tyson a white frock
with a forest-green velvet coat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Lindsay Mildred, president of the
Kurneh Auxiliary to the Queen Victoria
Hospital, and members of her committee
organised a hat-parade, held in Mrs.
Mildred’s Malvern home. Pretty twin
daughters Patricia and Elizabeth Mildred
were among the mannequins; others were
Mrs. Gwen Potter, Madame Stonelake,
Jane Bonython and Marion Gengoult
Smith. Among those who admired the
hats were Dame Mabel Brookes (president
of the Q.V. Hospital), Lady Steele, Mrs.
David Syme, Mrs. Hugh Syme, Mrs.
Robert Staughton, Mrs. Percy Northrop,
Mrs. A. Fowler,' Lady Gengoult Smith,
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, Mrs. R. V. Gove,
Mrs. Lindsay Plant, Mrs. David Body-
comb'and Lady Hyde.
SYDNEY
Gone from the Sydney scene in this
last week, the gay and charming person
of Carrie Moore, in her 74th year. To
many Carrie Moore, with her sparkling
brown eyes, her firm handclasp, her warm
and lively conversation, seemed to em-
body all the vitality and lightheartedness
of the musical-comedies and pantomimes
in which she had appeared. At the age
of 13 she made the song “I Don’t Want
to Play in Your Yard” a hit, and at 21
was voted the best principal-boy in
English panto. But it was as Sonia in
“The Merry Widow” that she is remem-
bered with most affection. She was one
who never lost her zest and twinkling
gaiety. In 1933 she appeared with great
success in “Music in the Air,” and only
a few years ago tried out television in
America. She loved company, and was
often seen at big functions in the city,
enlivening every group she joined with
her responsiveness and wit. Beautiful in
her youth, she was still a pretty woman
when she died. Sydney is just a little
grayer for her passing.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of course the main thing about raising
money is to raise money, and the Spring
Concert at the Town Hall on Saturday
night netted £7OO for the Chair of Aus-
tralian Literature Fund, so it was a
great success. Still, it would have been
better had the numerous members of the
fund’s committee come along and brought
their friends to fill up the empty seats.
Reading the long list of names on the
programme and looking round for the
familiar faces brought little reward. The
official party was impressive—chief guest
being the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Ken-
neth Street—-and was welcomed by con-
cert-committee president Lady Braddon.
Present were Lord Mayor Hills with Mrs.
Hills, Archbishop H. W. K. Mowll and
Mrs. Mowll, Director of Education Dr.
H. S. Wyndham and Mrs. Wyndham, and
Professor W. Milgate.
Christine Taylor, who is the only child
of Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Taylor, of
Vaucluse, has chosen St. Michael’s,
Vaucluse, for her marriage on September
29 to Ross Stacy, of Western Australia.
Ross is the second son of Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Burnett Stacy, of York (W.A.) and
formerly of Broken Hill, where the R. T.
Taylors are also well known. Bridesmaid
at the wedding is to be Jill Hansman, with
the bride’s two small cousins, Rosemary
Anne and Lucy Jennifer Marsh, as flower-
girls. After the honeymoon the young
couple will make their home in Westralia,
at York. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
A brilliant bird-of-paradise decorates
the just-arrived invitation to the Red
Cross gala film-preview “Walk Into
Paradise” at the Metro Theatre, King’s
Cross, on October 5. All its gay colors,
one hears, are to be reproduced in the
feather head-dresses which New Guinea
natives will wear in the foyer on “the
night.” The Lieutenant-Governor, Sir
Kenneth Street, will be present. As it is
in Race Week, dressing generally is
expected to be nearly as brilliant as the
decor. Proceeds are in aid of the Lady
Gowrie Home for Ex-Army Nurses
because “the Angel of Mercy needs a
new wing.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Another attractive invitation which has
just got here (despite the poshes’ adver-
tised go-slow strike) shows a dashing-
looking lady in matador-pants on the
Cote-d’Azur, which is the name of a
parade of Germaine Rocher clothes, hats
by Henriette Lamotte and accessories by
David Jones’ at the Trocadero on Sep-
tember 27. It will be at the cocktail-
hour, champagne will be drunk, £1 ss.
will give the entree to the “do,” and
the Torchbearers for Legacy will garner
the profits for their good work.
☆ ☆ ☆
Minister for Health Dr. Donald A.
Cameron and Mrs. Cameron flew from
Canberra to attend the first Annual Ball
of the British Medical Association, held
at the Trocadero during the week.
Flowers were the chief motif of the ball,
seen in the decorated wrought-iron wheel-
barrows in the foyer, in the pink carna-
tions presented to the men guests for
buttonholes, and in the Victorian posies
of spring flowers on every table. There
were about 600 dancers, the host and
hostess being the president of the 8.M.A.,
Dr. Edgar Thomson, and Mrs. Thomson.
#
Turkey is likely to figure more
frequently on Australian dinner-tables in
future, as it is now possible to buy deep-
frozen turkey-steaks of a size suited to
the family appetites and budgets. Cer-
tainly a great change has come over the
cooking of turkey since Edwardian times.
A dish mentioned by Virginia Cowles in
her new book Edward VII and his Circle
as being one of which the German Royal
family were particularly fond consisted
of a turkey stuffed with a chicken, inside
the chicken a pheasant, and inside the
pheasant a woodcock, made into a pie and
served cold.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Golden Jubilee Ball of the
N.S.W. Masonic Club at the Trocadero
on October 11 Mrs. Ella Westwood will
present 20 debutantes to Worshipful
Grand Master T. Warren, and at the
conclusion of their cotillion they will
form a tableau representing the Masonic
emblem. Tickets for the ball can be
obtained from the secretary at the
Masonic Club in Castlereagh-street.
V #
A cheque for £13,479 18s. 6d. was
presented to the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children by Mr. Norman B.
Rydge, managing-director of Greater
Union Theatres, at a party at the Pick-
wick on Wednesday. It represented the
proceeds of a week’s intensive drive on
behalf of the crippled children at the
picture-shows controlled by G.U. When
accepting the cheque for the society, the
president, Mr. F. Coles, read a letter
from the Chief Secretary’s Department
saying that the drive had been remark-
able in that it had Operated on the very
minimum of expense.
CANBERRA
A fashion-parade held at the Brazilian
Embassy had a delightfully gay atmos-
phere. The lovely spring day brought
out a number of new-model hats among
the gathering. An unusual note was
that ladies of the diplomatic missions
modelled the frocks.
Dashing full-skirted separates in
brilliant colored-cottons opened the
parade, but the accent was on the sheath-
skirt for afternoon- and cocktail-frocks.
One outstanding ensemble of black-and-
white patterned polished-cotton was
attractively modelled by Madame Chen,
wife of the Chinese Minister; the frock,
straight and slim, topped with a full-
length coat cut on Oriental lines with
long side splits, was lined with cherry-
red poplin. This was worn with a stove-
pipe hat in cherry straw swathed in black
tulle.
Madame Fack, wife of the First Secre-
tary of the Royal Netherlands Embassy,
modelled with poise and charm an after-
five frock of creanj-and-gold brocade in
the new princess fine ; the hat in pine-
apple braid-straw trimmed with cinna-
mon organza featured a bow at the front.
Miss Helen Hampton, assistant-secretary
to the New Zealand High Commission,
was another mannequin. Rather stealing
the show, Muschi, the teenage daughter
of the German Ambassador, Dr. Walther
Hess, looked lovely in a full-skirted white
pique frock patterned with tiny red roses.
Miss Elaine Feeney, of Kara Fashions,
Canberra, who supplied the frocks, was
an attractive model. The hats came from
Tracey Lord salon.
Mrs. Elizabeth Mason, compere of the
parade, topped her grey ensemble with a
pink model hat. Organisers were
Madame Deseta, Madame Manz and
Mrs. B. Roberts. Proceeds will go to
their stall at the forthcoming Red Cross
fete. The president of the A.C.T. division
of Red Cross, Mr. Mildenhall, was
present with Mrs. Mddenhall.


BANDAARA
Tablets
will raise your Ego
Olympic Athletes take them.
NO DRUGS
For Headaches and blood
pressure. Very good for your
nerves.
Sold by
FISHER, Chemist
Opp. Town Hall, Sydney.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO KEITH CHARLES GAYTON late of
Cootamundra in the State of New South
Wales but whose present whereabouts are
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BETTY AMELIA GAYTON has commenced
an action No. 1539 of 1955 against you
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of your desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend this action you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within
Thirty days from the date of the service
of the Writ and Petition on you which
shall be deemed to have been effected
Twenty-one days after the sending of a
copy of the said Writ and Petition by
post to you care of CHARLES EDWARD
GAYTON at Wangan via Innisfail in the
said State or Twenty-one days after the
last of the publications of this notice in
“The Sydney Bulletin” whichever is the
latest You may obtain a copy of the
Writ of Summons and Petition from
MESSRS. TROUT BERNAYS & CO.,
Solicitors, 329 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
—L. CHRISTOPHERSON, Second Deputy
Registrar. TROUT BERNAYS & CO.,
Solicitors, 329 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD CYRIL MOORE late of
21 Mona Street Granville. —TAKE NOTICE
that ESTHER ROSALINE ALICE MOORE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2602
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
this suit you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 30th October 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JOHN MOORE late of
Granville.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
JEAN MOORE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1908 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th day of
November 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
General Credits Ltd.
offers
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly
free of exchange. Cumu*
lative stock carrying 6£%
compounded on yearly rests
with currencies of 5 to 15
years. Prospectus available all
branches of The Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited,
Members of Stock Exchanges
and Offices of the company.
Long Term
15 years
5 to 10 years
4 years -
3 n -
2,/ -
per cent
} 7
6|
51
Short Term
12 months
9 a
6 „
3 rt
per cent
5
- 4i
- - 4
31
DIRECTORS :
Sir John Newman-Morris,
C.M.G. (Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing),
J. M. Ford, E. W. Cox,
John Glen, Eric Hughes,
J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, C.8.E., H. F.
Clarke.
Bankers for the issue:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prpspectus and does not constitute an invitation
to subscribe for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
UNDERWRITERS :
J. B. WERE
& SON 489 S
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Ferras and Krips
Christian Ferras opened a
short season in Brisbane by play-
ing the Brahms Violin Concerto,
one he had played several times
previously in the course of his
tour. Any notion that he would
be just another fiddler with a
big reputation and a small
repertoire quickly banished by
the mastery of his playing—
something vital, yet with a
curious quality of detachment
about it.
All through his performance
there was a strong impulse to
keep the music flowing, rather
than dawdle in the admittedly
pleasant byways of this concerto.
So it left a strong impression of
unity, rather than of a trilogy
of loosely-connected movements.
Henry Krips conducted
sympathetically, though there
were moments when the thread
of sound from the solo violin did
not come through the orchestral
tone.
Those people who leave con-
certs in the interval when there
is a modern piece in the second
half did not miss much by not
staying for Prokofieff’s Seventh
Symphony. As a symphony it is
completely innocuous, and has
none of the difficulties that some-
times make first performances
hard going. Prokofieff wrote it
after the musical uproar in
Moscow when Russian com-
posers had their knuckles rapped
and were told to write music
more easily understood by “the
people.” There is no denying
the charm of this workj however,
for it returns to a style something
like that of Prokofieff’s popular
“Classical Symphony.”
This Brisbane performance fell
so far short of doing it justice
that the audience might have
been pardoned for supposing it
had barely been rehearsed. There
were so many shaky wind entries,
and the strings were so com-
pletely lacking in the bright
sheen necessary for this kind of
music, that what might have
been a bright and tuneful half-
hour with the repentant Russian
composer sounded merely drab
and not a little cheap.
Things were not helped by
Henry Krips’s mannerism of
dancing around the podium. This
may be all very well for the
opera-house, where it would not
be noticed in the darkness, but
in the concert-hall the orchestra
is expected to take the beat from
the conductor’s hands, not from
his feet.
D. J. M.
Kurt Woess
The Austrian conductor’s
latest Sydney concert began
with an effervescent reading of
Rossini’s “Silken Ladder” Over-
ture, with never a frayed rung in
its glossy texture. There followed
Tschaikowsky’s “Serenade for
Strings/’ replete with rich
melodies and some of the best
tone-color in 19th-century Rus-
sian string-music. The playing
of it was distinguished by
diminuendos shaded-away with
the utmost delicacy.
The symphony was Cesar
Franck’s, the Belgian’s only
essay in the form. With its
enrichment of basically sound
themes, its mystical quality, its
profusion of fine-drawn melodic
material and its bold harmonic
experiments, the work is a
sheer delight. It is the best
French work (Franck spent most
of his artistic life in Paris) since
Berlioz’s “Fantastic” Symphony,
composed over half a century
earlier. Woess, who conducted
all the orchestral pieces without
benefit of score, was by turns
vigorous and persuasive to get
the effects he sought.
Victoria de los Angeles said
her farewell to Sydney with a
group of enchantingly sung
Spanish songs by De Falla. In
response to eight recalls she
added the “Jewel Song” from
“Faust,” sung so perfectly that
even a Margarita with raven
hair could be acceptable.
❖ ❖ ❖
Robert Masters Quartet
This ensemble, specialising in
chamber-music in which the
piano has a voice, began its
Sydney season under the direc-
tion of the Musica Viva Society,
with quartets by Faure and
Brahms, and with Beethoven’s
“Archduke” Trio.
The Faure which opened the
programme, that in C Minor,
Op. 15, began indifferently with
a movement which has no great
appeal; but the delicacies of the
scherzo, the elegaic slow move-
ment and the strong lyricism of
the concluding allegro were
played with warm affection.
The Beethoven Trio was
beautifully balanced, the most
notable effects being the strength
of the rhythmic pulsations in the
scherzo, the clarity of the figura-
tion-work in the variations of
the andante, and the robustness
of the humor in the concluding
rondo.
The Brahms —massive, with
strong textures and strong colors
—was given strenuous treat-
ment, and there was even a hint
of the flexed muscle in the gentle
andante. Always, too, there was
the undercurrent of sadness
which invests so much Brahms
music, even when the prevailing
mood of a movement is light.
Players were Robert Masters
(violin), Kinloch Anderson
(piano), Nannie Jamieson (viola)
and Muriel Taylor (’cello).
i* &
“Cosi Fan Tutti”
• For Mozart’s last comic-opera,
produced for the Sydney Con-
servatorium Opera School by
Mina Shelley, librettist Da Ponte
provided a plot which is slight
but undeniably funny: on a bet
with a cynical bachelor two
Neapolitan soldiers test the
faithfulness of their fiancees by
supposedly going off to war and
immediately returning disguised
as Albanian noblemen, each
laying siege, successfully, to the
other’s beloved.
The lines are witty and Mozart
gave the piece one of his most
charming scores. He also invested
the male roles with some irony,
and provided some beautiful
concerted numbers.
The puffball nonsense needs
deft and sure delineators —
singers with special qualities of
voice and interpretation and able
to play the comic situations for
all they are worth.
Generally, the singing at the
Con. was fairly good. Tenor
Alan Ferris and baritone Robert
Bickerstaff got their songs across
with good resonance and tone,
and Gloria Read and Phyllis
Rogers, as the fickle fiancees, sang
well individually and blended at
times with most delicate effect in
the duets. But the quartet fell
short in wringing comedy from
the many situations offering it.
Beryl Hardy, as the pert, prac-
tical and none-too-scrupulous
maidservant, and Russell Smith,
as the wryly humorous bachelor
who engineers the experiment,
had a keener perception of the
comedy needs.
The orchestra under Noel
Nixon gave an excellent account
of the score.
*s* <£♦ ’S*
Play Competition
The Sydney Journalists’ Club
play-competition closes on
September 30 and a large
number of entries are expected.
Prizes are £250 for the best Aus-
tralian-written play and £5O for
the next-best.
The best of the entries will be
examined by the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, which hopes to
arrange for production of out-
standing plays as it did for “The
Summer of the 17th Doll.”
Entry-forms and full details of
the competition may be obtained
from the Journalists’ Club, 166
Phillip-street, Sydney.
Artbursts
The Peter Bray Gallery in
Melbourne has on display up-
wards of a hundred of Kenneth
Rowell’s designs for ballet.
Rowell, the Melbourne artist who
has more-or-less captured this
field at Sadler’s Wells, Stratford-
on-Avon, the Old Vic and in
Paris, does not depict the bal-
lerinas in action. They are
static, but they don’t look so
much like stick-insects as most
ballet-designers make them.
Rowell’s line is loose, and he
suggests rather than dictates how
the costumes should go and how
the dancers should wear them.
Talkies
“Summer Madness” (Sydney
Embassy): The story of a
middle-aged American spinster
who is caught up in an affair in
Venice. Katharine Hepburn,
who has never been more
natural, brings humor and occa-
sional poignancy to the role.
Rossano Brazzi gives a polished
performance opposite her. The
CinemaScopic camera and color
do full justice to the City of
Canals.
“The Proud Ones” (Sydney
Plaza): Though falling shorter
than “High Noon” and “Shane”
in suspense, this Western is still
skilfully built-up to a good
climax and its chief characters
have a genuine ring to them.
Robert Ryan is the rugged
Marshal who likes a peaceful life
but is forced to use violent means
to attain it, and Jeffery Hunter is
likeable as the man who comes
around to the marshal’s way of
thinking. Virginia Mayo is there
just to make up the required
number.
“The Littlest Outlaw” (Sydney
Paris): This engaging Walt
Disney adventure-film, with its
lovely rural-Mexican setting,
concerns a small boy’s deter-
mination to save the horse he
loves from being shot because of
its supposed viciousness. The
boy is naturalness itself, and his
and the horse’s many escapes
from the pursuing villain, until
his equine friend is finally
vindicated, make tiptop school-
holiday entertainment.
“Invitation to the Dance”
(Sydney Liberty): A film of
three ballets, described with
imagination and artistry by Gene
Kelly, who also takes a leading
role.
The first ballet, “The Circus,”
to the pungent music of Jacques
Ibert, gives a new twist to the
clown-with-a-heartbreak theme,
and is marked by beautifully
supple dancing by Clairs
Sombert and Igor Youskevitch.
The second, “Ring Around the
Rosy,” while telling the history
of a bracelet as it passes through
the hands of a succession of
lovers till it returns to its original
owner, is at the same time a
biting satire on crooner-worship
and cocktaii-party addicts.
The third ballet, “Sinbad the
Sailor,” uses cartoon-figures and
Rimsky-Korsakov’s music in a
modern version of the Schehera-
zade story, and the integration of
Gene Kelly’s high-speed dancing
with that of the figures is full of
clever touches.
“Special Delivery” (Sydney
Lyceum): A baby boy is
abandoned in the grounds of the
residence of Charge d’Affaires
Joseph Cotten in an Iron Curtain
country. Thereafter, for 90
minutes or so, Mr. Cotten, in
between diplomatic joustings to
foil the foxy Commo Foreign
Office nabob who wants the
infant as future Socialistic
fodder, makes speeches about
Demahcrasy, liberty, George
Washington, etc., which aren’t
particularly entertaining, even
if they are good propaganda.


Everleigh's Accent
By HAL PORTER
the Private Lounge
(Quests Only) ; one
of those factitiously-
democratic gather-
ings into which
group law-breaking
injects the fever of
orgy.
I knew them all,
their salaries, their
vanities, weaknesses
and reputations. I
could even remember
some of their names.
I realised instantly
that they had been
drinking for some
time; their postures
were relaxed to-
wards abandonment,
the room was dazed
with cigarette-
smoke, exaltation
and fatigue mingled
fifty-fifty in their
faces.
Four timber-
cutters posed as
effectively as Rodin
sculptures ; their
names such as Herb,
Ern, Mac, Tim, Bob
and Tex I had to
select by guile before pinning
one like a Rotarian’s badge on
each of these dogmatic and
obtuse males with wiry hairs
curling over their singlet-tops.
There were a chattering mandrill
of an s.-p. bookmaker and his
wife, a Cassandra of provincial
disasters; two high-school
mistresses, one —Art? English?
—in the misfortune of matador-
pants ; a bank-teller affecting
leather elbow-pads; a window-
dresser ; two other commercial-
travellers ; the hotel cook; the
licensee’s wife, who sat at the
piano. This . . . this machine,
jacked-up at one corner by a
folded sporting-paper, I had
often heard her, with showy
near-accuracy, play on “by ear.”
It was a mixed bunch upon
which a number of drinks had
induced the same social coloring
to shine; Christian-names un-
folded cheaply as eschscholtzias
in the weeded acre of their
acquaintance. Yes, yes, I knew
them all except one young man
who, as I entered, was the crystal-
ball for these half-drugged
gazers.
His face was mobile and, I
suppose, attractive. By this
I mean that my interest, being
directed towards him by theirs,
did not after the first look waver
away. He was pale, vivacious,
intense, cpmpelling. Using an
impeccable Cockney accent he
was finishing a discreetly off-
color yarn apparently well-told
and timed for his final sentence
and a grimace pointed as an
exclamation-mark caused an
uproar of laughter.
The ovation seemed to startle
him; dark eyes opened with
mock amazement, teeth flashed
in a smile of feigned shyness as
though what he had told he had
himself listened to and under-
stood for the first time:
“Oh dear, oh dear,” he said
coyly.
It was admirable pantomime,
the witty paraph underlining the
effect of his story. Yet . . .
remember I was a sober though
moon-mesmerised onlooker .
did a shadow-wing slip across
DO you know what a rep.
is?
It is what certain sorts
of shopgirls and nurses,
who call a man a “chappie” and
a woman “another lass,” dock
that snobbish euphemism “repre-
sentative” to. I am a rep.—a
commercial traveller. I represent
—I work for—a wholesale book
firm and am not fond of people,
but can well enough simulate the
Intelligent Good-Mixer. You
understand?
Gippsland is one of my larger
areas of persuasion.
One night the most irritating
thises and thats delayed until
ten-o’clock my planned and
usual six-thirty arrival at a large
country town. I was dinnerless ;
I was dazzled by 40 miles of a
road resembling a moon-
congealed channel of liquid, a
soothing future unblotted by
anything except two truck-
squashed possums.
From the last hilltop the over-
lit town declared itself an ante-
room to coruscating gaiety. I
knew better; perspectives of
municipal moons showed an
illustration of boredom, streets
naked except for three Italians
dressed as New Australians but
gesticulating like Italians in
front of a display of cars and
cyclamen; the Prince Regent
Theatre lassoed out hectoring
talkie-voices towards the gibbous
moon; from the rotunda of
Emmett-Baroque in the strip of
lawns, palms and claret-ashes
that divided Main-street the
shire-band was heard despairing
its way through “Melodie
d’Amour.” On a couple of my
visits this Arcadia of standard-
roses, begonia and exhibition-
border had been the setting for
a grotesque picnic; Hogarth’s
subject, not Tiepolo’s.
Part-blood aborigines had
lain in Gin-lane contortions
among the lozenge- and crescent-
shaped plots, their white-port-
and sherry-bottles lying drained
beside them while the Hitlerish
yappings of carnival-spruikers
and the metallic music of the
merry-go-round exhorted vainly.
The next day I had seen them
paying for their lock-up night:
teetering and with blinded
bunglings they weeded, hoed and
raked through the police-station
garden.
The architecture of this town’s
police-station is disconcerting,
Georgian and “Quality-street” ;
it would not have been surpris-
ing had the panelled and fan-
lighted door opened that moon-
lit night on a mincing crocodile
of Kate Greenaway gfrls in muffs
and coal-scuttle bonnets. The
police-station, the street-gardens,
the whole town, emanated ficti-
tious peace, had that baby-eyed,
you-can-trust-me look that defied
anyone to imagine its fires any
other than domestic, its inner
and moral weathers any more
than mild. Even the Railway
Hotel seemed. an ark of peace
as I decelerated into its backyard
and parked my car in one of the
brick-floored garages under a
time-pallid signboard Livery
Stables.
AS usual —for the licensee and
his wife were gay, shrewd
and audacious there was an
after-hours-drinking party in
the midday of his smile, a
sardonic or bitter bird?
He was tall; the unsavory
word “lissom” landed like a fly
in my mind ; a frond of soot-
black hair sickled the pallor of
his forehead; his face was a sea
of many winds, many intelligent
half-winds ; expressions chased
upon it like the blushings on
j calms of water. His name was
Everleigh and he was called
Everleigh ; this I found immedi-
ately fascinating, symbolic of
. . . of what?
Among these cosmical Pats,
Guys, Gregs and Verns, an
audience of monosyllables, why
the three-pronged Everleigh?
What covenant had he made
with originality?
His eyes rhymed well, com-
pliant and expressive, but I found
this rhyming a little . . . what
was the word? . . . wary? for-
saken? devious? There lurked
the undersheen of another
activity, a sense of acute crafts-
manship whose motive was
obscure.
“Oh, Ev-er-leigh, you poppet,”
the girl in matador-pants was
exaggeratedly moaning, “you
rilly mustn’t, rilly. You’re kill-
ing, but killing!" and her
“Vogue”-mask let down its
painted eyelids under her
gamine hair-cut so that she
looked like one or other of
Fagin’s boys.
“Oh, Ev-er-leigh!” This was
the licensee’s wife, recovering
from giggles, and amplifying her
lisp. “You mutht thing ‘l’m
Walking Bee-hind You!’ Pleathe,
Everleigh.”
“Go worn, myte.” Doug?
Rod? Jim? One of the timber-
men: “Giss a sorng!”
Deferentially, but without
wavering, expecting no denial:
“Man! ... I mxjst have more
grog, man!” For the first time
I heard Everleigh’s own voice.
TVTOW, it is generally not diffi-
' cult to decide from the voice
the State any Australian comes
from.
Sooner or later, for one thing,
betraying words jump up like
skip-jack: “port” or “suitcase,”
“tissue” and “cordial” or
“cigarette-paper” and “soft-
drink,” “parkland,” “Wyandotte”
or “plonk-artist,” “poloney” or
“fritz” or “German sausage,”
“I’m not going there, but”
or “Dickin, I’m not going there”
—many pebbles can be dropped
by which to follow home a
Hansel.
Indeed, conveyed blindfolded
here or mysterious there to con-
front, unblindfolded, notice-
boards bearing Gents for Sale,
Pedestrian Refuge, Gas-ring


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
FT
SMa.
.IIUJJIItj
r i ffl'iMi
s
m.
The many services of this Bank now include a
modern Savings Bank at all branches and agencies
of the Bank in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, Western Australia and Australian Capital
Territory.
The complete banking needs of customers,
including all members of a family, may now be
transacted, conveniently and quickly, at one
office.
The deposits of C.B.C. Savings Bank
Ltd. are guaranteed by the parent
company.
The manager at Head Office, or your
nearest branch of this Bank, will explain, gladly t
the full service now available .
.THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
Here or Cows Only is to con-
front a vocabulary as localised
as Siste, viator, weather or wild-
flowers.
As far as these pebbles of
words can lead, an accent can
also lead: at least it can lead
me, and I am no Higgins. Yet
Everleigh’s accent discomfited
me —partly, that is.
There are many who, abandon-
ing State- and class-crotchets,
have become primates of a
stylised accent; these conceal
their origin behind the imper-
sonality of sacrament, rule and
rectitude. Not so Everleigh: his
voice was not Gippsland’s high-
pitched and laconic one ; it had
the rusted harshness of northern
Victoria’s on which was super-
imposed, or which was super-
imposed on, an elusive lilting,
a smoky fluctuation, a something
I had experienced but could not
recall.
This piqued. I kept thinking
of “Night Must Fall” or “Birds
of a Feather” but knew that
“No! No! No!” was the only
possible retort to them. There-
fore, drinking more whisky than
I had intended, I observed him
and his voice, hunted the
amateur Proteus through his
metamorphoses, confusing my-
self to standstill.
An hour passed.
It was Everleigh’s hour.
Exalted by an oxygen of
temerity, zeal or malice, he told
risque stories in which impro-
priety was minified by intona-
tion, wit and gesture. Before
us, under sterile fluorescents, in
the spectral currents of cigarette-
smoke, paraded his brilliantly-
slandered sacrifices: the vaude-
ville Jew, the New Australian
Dutchman, the Dads and Daves
and lubras, the Harry Lauder
Scot, the Polish airman and his
Mayfair hosts.
He accepted beers as though
they were illuminated addresses.
He sang songs of blazing senti-
mentality while the licensee’s
wife, theatrically dressed and
ear-ringed as for some exotic
vice-royalty, manipulated ring-
ing tremoli and maudlin pianis-
simi from tooth-yellow keys.
Oily eyes uplifted with the
ludicrous poignancy of a Land-
seer Labrador’s, he sang “Danny
Boy.” He sang “Galway Bay” ;
he sang ... he sang in ravishing
pseudo-Irish.
Ravishing! It was perhaps the
whisky, but I imagined myself to
find more and clearer proofs that
he was purposely ravishing ; the
extra-subtle tone, the merest
flinch of his eyelid would have
raised the mercury above the
mark to ironic comment, satire,
forthright burlesque. During the
sickliest numbers, I was certain,
or thought I was, that this beer-
swilling jester was agitating his
bells not merely derisively but
also waywardly, remorsefully
and distractedly.
No one else noticed that he
appeared possessed; sardonicism
seemed snugly to occupy him:
“I’m walking bee-hind
ye-e-w ...” he sang. The long-
drawn, radio - talent - quest
“ye-e-e-w” was sharp as insult:
after all he was a mimic. Excited
by drink, the enigma of his
accent, his apparent duplicity,
the highly-strung and iridescent
mockery that edged on fleer, I
lusted to find out more, to talk
to him.
An opportunity came. While
he was out of the room for
several minutes the licensee’s
wife splashed gHb arpeggios
from her instrument, the others
herded about her and" began to
bay “Girl of My Dreams.”
I had just time to buy another
whisky-and-water and to learn
from the barman (questions so
casual) that Everleigh came from
north-central Victoria and was
now a timber-cutter, when he
returned. The others, enchanted
by themselves in “Mexicali
Rose,” did not notice him.
T}OR a minute fraction of
A eternity he and his face were
still, he was not acting someone
else.
Was he Everleigh? Was he
the host himself who now in-
habited the quiet and solitude of
a body rented to the many and
noisy and who looked from it
at their admirers with a stealthy
sombre blankness?
Only this fraction: then he
turned a fervid gaze on me and
swaggered across with electrify-
ing confidence. Our meeting had
been ordained; this was the
moment: that was the impres-
sion I got.
As though fertilised to action
by his approach, “Drink, dear
boy?” I said.
“I shall be delaighted, deah
boy!” He glanced at my glass:
“Whiskeh-sodah, thenks,” he
said. It was probably a techni-
color-version of my own accent.
Now the others began, elegiac-
ally and piercingly, to sing
“Mother Machree,” each one
aspiring, as drunkards do, to out-
wail the rest. They yearned dog-
like to the lopsided moon I had
left moving candidly in the sky.
Everleigh appeared too pliant,
elegant and capricious to be
a timber-cutter; moreover, he
was dressed with spiv-like
floridity in which there was an
intimation of the effeminate or
the panther, a soft-footedness:
narrow shoes, aluminium-grey
trousers with a lustrous surface,
powder-blue sportscoat, a long
cassia-yellow tie manacled by
golden bar and chain. He wore
two weighty golden rings and a
wristlet-watch on a golden band
as intricate and interlaced as a
marginal decoration in the Book
of Kells.
His ... his fancy dress, as it
seemed to me, had the same
qualities of indirectness, error
and melee that the room had —
the nickel-plated supports for the
fluorescence; the walls each a
different neurotic color, Reckitt’s
Blue, magenta, stewed-quince,
card-table green; the brandy-
advertising ashtrays ; the wire-
and-paper irises stuck in
troughs of sand; the white-
framed reproductions of
camellias and magnolias.
Feeling subtle as Father
Brown, “How do you find Gipps-
land?” I said.
He made a moue, the first and
only I have encountered out-
side a 1920 romance. He exhaled
the smoke of one of my
cigarettes.
“Not bad, man. Ye-e-s, not
too bad at all, man.” Again that
edulcorated note, Welsh but not
Welsh, intangible as fumes,
silken as falsehood.
“They tell me you hail from
up north?”
Was his infinitesimal delay
a defensive one?
Then, “Yes, man,” he said,
and, presenting me with a
matinee-idol smile of such con-
centration and glistening china-
ness that it seemed to open a
door on Truth’s very nudity,
named a small town I had passed
through some months ago.
It was one of those places
exposed for no detectable
reason miles one way from
willow-lined irrigation-channels,
miles the other from orange-
orchards and vineyards. It was
a parenthesis on a brick-red
road, a paragraph of saltbush,
dust like paprika, heat and bore-
dom, a senselessness of wooden
shacks whose fallen-down gates
were old iron bed-ends that let
nothing into yards littered with
oil-drums and camp-pie tins.
How could he, coming from
there, have said “Not bad, man,”
about this shire hairy with pas-
palum through which matriarchal
queues of cows dragged their
udders, a luxuriance absinthe-
scented by fennel and grid-ironed
Englishly by hawthorn hedges?
Mountains packed with mess-
mate poured creeks down
through maize-flats into the
river’s wide highway ; there were
lakes, superabundance, every
shade and shape of a sappy
green. The town itself must have
been for him a Hollywood of
concrete footpaths, fish-and-chip
shops, natty tailors’, pubs, dance-
halls, milkbars, billiard-saloons,
emporiums chock-a-block with
cheap Italian or suede shoes . . .
“Ye-e-es, not too bad at all,
man,” he had said: within my
mind an extra eye artfully
opened.
“Do you know that town,
man?”
At this point, the extra eye,
alert to some ancestral intuition,
saw that I should tell a lie: “No,
dear boy, I don’t know it at
all.”
T KNEW of course that he was
drunk; a gentle force
brimmed him ; he seemed on the
verge of splitting like a pome-
granate to exhibit a glory of
seeds that could be counted one
by one to an exhilarating total.
I also was drunk and frustrated ;
a final assessment of his accent
still eluded me though the
answer I had known somewhere
before lurked behind the copse
of my memories.
“You don’t know m’ home
tah-oon, deah boy?”
“No. Never been there.”
His imitation of me did not
distress, though it bored: after
all, during the evening, I had
heard him imitate too many, so
that each mimicked personality
lay over his own, veil-on-veil,
making him a mystery, a statue
sheathed in darkened flame* a
symbol behind fogs.
“Ah!” His eyes widened
earnestly (too earnestly?).
“I love mah home-town.”
He drained his glass. A glint
of Americanism had slipped
through his last sentence, the
fish-gleam fleeting by under a
skin of water. He smiled
intimately, placed his sap-
stained fingers on my sleeve:
“Going to purchase me a
whiskeh-sodah, old chappeh, old
chappeh?” he said.
I had bought two rounds
already; I bought one more.
The others were tangled in
“Star Dust” but the glue between
them was melting ; the matador-
trousered schoolmistress was
involved on a moquette sofa in
a Laocoon-like embrace with
bank-teller and window-dresser.
A voice of diabolic timbre said,
“A ros h e bee-tween two
thornsh! ” Eyes were glazing ;
the bookmaker was being
denounced by his sibylline wife.
“Ah suh ’nough lerv that lil
ol’ home-tahn—yeah, man !”
The American fish had broken
the surface.' Everleigh drank,
replenishing some spiritual vat
into which he lowered himself to
emerge immediately neat, as it
were, and glowing, to say in his
own voice that flowed out in
ectoplasmic coils, “My old man
owns the pub there in my home-
town.”
Shocked, I understood why an
atavistic quirk had warned me
to lie, for there was no hotel in
that home-town, no cinema, no
—well, there was nothing,
(Continued on page 30)


CHATEAU TANUNDA
ue& No. 17
' . rT*\
735
r ' . & ■' rT T- .
3
Harbour Forts
The outbreak of the Crimean War in 1853 so
soon after the discovery of gold in New South
Wales revived demands for the speedy fortifica-
tion of Sydney.
In 1854, a scheme was under way to fortify Port
Jackson with batteries on Dawes Point, Pinchgut,
Bradley’s Head, George’s Head, Middle Head and
South Head. But then a big change occurred.
When Sir William Denison arrived as new Governor
in 1855, he persuaded the authorities to dismantle all
the outside forts and to revive a long-discarded plan
for defending the inner port alone. The central point
for Sir William’s scheme was Pinchgut, the tiny
island in Sydney Harbour which had earned its name
when refractory convicts were marooned there on
meagre rations in the early days of the colony.
A stone fort was built on the island and from 1856
(the year the Crimean War ended) it was officially
known as Fort Denison.
Sir William planned supporting batteries at Dawes
and Kirribilli Points, at Lady Macquarie’s Chair and
at Fort Macquarie, on the eastern point of Circular
Quay.
For a long time, Sydney's first line of defence was
represented by Fort Denison and Fort Macquarie.
This promised little more protection than had been
available 30 years earlier, for, in 1827, Sydney's sole
defences were at Fort Macquarie and Dawes Point.
More than £60,000 was spent on the absurd Denison
scheme. It was eventually abandoned in the iB6o’s,
and the 1854 plan was re-adopted.
Remember—always keep a bottle in the bouse
CHATEAU TANUNHA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.5.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED. EST. 1838
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
GFI7
Ulilio Turns the Talk
By PETER PARK
MR, Assistant District
Officer, John Sullivan,
leaned back in his chair
and suppressed a sigh.
The bamboo walls and the
plaited sago-frond roof gave the
office of this sub-station in New
Guinea some relief from the
glare and the humid heat.
Sullivan, with his light skin
tanned right up to his fair, curly
hair, looked less than his 31
years. '*
But that morning he felt con-
siderably more. Today, on top
of all his usual duties, he had
to look after an American
anthropologist who had arrived
unexpectedly the night before.
“This would happen,” thought
Sullivan, “with all the twenty-
six blasted monthly reports in
quadruplicate due to go out
tomorrow, and this worrying
silence from the Wasam sub-
division.”
There was nothing wrong in
Wasam as far as he knew, but
hints of something amiss had
come in from missionaries, who
are rarely exact. His agents in
the area were evasive. Slight
indications suggested that the
people were nervous, and there-
fore probably in trouble. It was
like a whispering - campaign
without any specific purpose;
informants would say that
“everybody” was worried but not
what they were worried about.
The phrase most used in the
local pidgin was “011-ee tok,”
meaning “everybody is saying.”
Il absorbed and muffled the
efforts of an investigator just as
a limp blanket stops a rifle-bullet.
And now, across the table
from him, sat the learned Dr.
Hoffmill, wilting in the heat. To
the American it was like work-
in a hothouse for plants after
the air-conditioned library in
which most of his work had
been done.
Sullivan respected his
enthusiasm, gleaming from
behind his powerful horn-
rimmed glasses ; liked his easy
friendliness, was intrigued by the
wide range of his book-
knowledge of the peoples of New
Guinea. He was about the same
age, yet seemed older in some
ways, younger in others. At the
same time, Sullivan wished the
learned doctor wouldn’t wear
a baseball-cap in the jungle.
Nothing essentially wrong with
this, of course, but it seemed
out of place and undignified.
Then Dr. Hoffmill hadn’t
realised that his gaily-decorated
shirts were the envy of the local
bloods. Sullivan felt unusually
formal and conservative in his
well-laundered white shirt and
shorts.
“After all,” he thought, “what
the devil does it matter? He’s
a good, keen type, might be
much worse, and American ways
are different from ours.”
“Please understand this, Mr.
Sullivan,” the doctor was say-
ing, “I don’t want
to be spoonfed. I
am grateful for the
assistance you have
offered, but I want
to check my theories
of totem and tabu
right in the field,
among these simple
and primitive people.
I realise I need an
interpreter, and I
would greatly appre-
ciate your help in
that matter, but
apart from that I
want to stand on
my own feet.”
Sullivan hoped his
expression hadn’t
changed when the
doctor spoke of
“simple and primi-
tive people.” They
were, and yet they
weren’t; they had
all the complica-
tions of human
beings, but he hadn't
got the time now to
argue with the visi-
tor. Anthropologists
in the field are
always a trial, but
anthropologists with “theories”
menace that delicate and hard-
won relation between the
administrative officer and the
people for whom he works.
He reached for the telephone,
noting how Dr. Hoffmill
. took this recent installation com-
pletely for granted. It had taken
Sullivan months of pleading on
paper to get it. As he picked
up the receiver he thought
pleasedly he might be able to
solve the problem of the nervous-
ness of the people of Wasam and
look after the anthropologist at
the same time.
LXE gave three long rings for
the police-barracks, and the
hand-set came alive at once.
Somebody at the other end had
pressed the button but said
nothing.
“Who’s that, there?” asked
Sullivan.
“Me,” replied a deep voice.
“True, but who’s me?” said
the Assistant District Officer
patiently.
“Just me,” came the infuriat-
ing response.
“You understand I can’t see
you. Tell me your name.”
“Oh!” said the voice in sur-
prise. “I am Constable
Semangen.”
“Good,” said Sullivan. “This
is Number One kiap. Send me
Corporal Ulilio at once. Full
dress.”
A mile away, Constable
Semangen reverently replaced the
hand-set and, turning to Corporal
Ulilio, who was literally breath-
ing down his neck, said, “The
Number One wants you hurry
up in full dress.”
“I think you’ll find Ulilio
satisfactory,” Sullivan said. “He’s
a Morobe from the Waria River
and I’ve found him unusually
tactful and ingenious. He
doesn’t speak English, but his
pidgin is very clear and I’m sure
it’ll take you no time to get the
hang of it. In any case, I’d
recommend you to make a study
of pidgin, because you won’t get
far without it.”
“Well, sir, once again my
gratitude ; you may take it from
me that the Foundation which
is sponsoring my field-work will
be advised of your co-operation
in this matter. I guess, I’d better
go to get my gear together.”
The gay shirt outflashed the
butterflies as he stepped into
the sunshine outside the hut.
Sullivan turned to the waiting
stack of reports. His typewriter
was clattering busily when
Corporal Ulilio of the Royal
Papua and New r Guinea Con-
stabulary marched into the office
and snapped a smart salute. With
the uniform laplap hitched up
higher than regulation of one
hand’s breadth above the knee,
the salute finished with a loud
crack as his hand slapped against
his muscular thigh.
Sullivan jerked his mind away
from involved mental calculation
relating to the ,inward and out-
ward radio-messages that month,
and the value of postal-orders
sold.
“Good-morning, Ulilio; stand
easy.” He continued in fluent
pidgin, “I want to talk to you
about the master who came
yesterday. His name is Hoffmill.
Now, he is a very clever man in
the ways of all men. He lives far
away in America and he has
come all this way to look at the
ways of the Wasam people. I
wish you to go with him, and
turn his talk and look after him.
He doesn’t know our pidgin, so
you must help him by talking
slowly and plainly that he shall
hear you. Remember, Ulilio,
that he is a great man from a far
country and, if anything happens
to him, you and I have got
trouble.”
“That’s all right sir, I am
enough,” answered Ulilio confi-
dently.
Perfect teeth gleamed against
his dark skin at the thought of a
holiday from the rigid discipline
of the constabulary, with the
prestige of instructing a white
man, and apparently a wealthy
one at that.
“Just a minute, Ulilio,” said
Sullivan, “that’s not quite all. I
haven’t had any straight talk
from the Wasam for three
months, and this has made me
think much. The missions have
spoken to me, but they know
nothing and when I ask a Wasam
man what his people are doing
these days he talks around and
around. All the other sub-
divisions are quiet, but I want a
report on the Wasam from you
when you return.”
This was not so good, and
Ulilio’s smile momentarily faded,
but he was such an optimist that
he could not imagine a situation
he couldn’t handle. He turned
to the immediate problem of
the march to the Wasam area.
“How many carriers shall I
get, sir?”
“Forty,” said Sullivan. He had
been privately shocked. Carriers
are not easy to come by, and
this American had brought a
staggering amount of gear; 351 b.
was a heavy enough load for
each man, though 51b. less
than the maximum permitted by
the authorities. Before he
shouldered his load, each man
had a blanket, a shirt, newspaper
for cigarette-rolling, matches,
twist-tobacco, comb, mirror,
lime-gourd and betelnut. On a
shdrt trip like this several of the
men carried other personal
belongings as well.
Yes, thought Sullivan, two
men for each bag of rice, one
for each incandescent lamp, a
couple each for the boxes of
stores, clothing and stationery,
and a dozen, anyway, for the
trunk and camping-equipment
with the unheard-of luxury of
chairs and tables—with a few
to spare, forty would be about
right, in contrast to his own
normal carrying-line of a Spartan
twenty-four on his patrols.
FTLILIO acknowledged his
orders with another salute
and went to make the necessary
preparations.
Two hours later, all the cargo
had been divided into loads and
those needing two men were
lashed to long, springy carrying-
poles with tough bush-vines in
the method common in the
coastal areas.
The essential packages had
either been wrapped in water-
proof containers or stowed in
empty 501 b. biscuit-tins. Rice,
tobacco, and the trade-goods
must be protected from the
tropical downpours. Three or
four inches of rain in one night
was nothing unusual.
Ulilio called “Up’im cargo!”
Loads were heaved onto broad
shoulders, shoulders which had
been broadened by years of
swinging paddles in the great
sailor-tradition of this area.
Dr. Hoffmill, baseball-cap at
a jaunty angle, camera, light-
meter and water-bottle draped
from his shoulders, could hardly
restrain his excitement at the
start of this, his first independent
field-trip. The academic lines on
his forehead were smoothed out
and he looked like a laughing
schoolboy without grief or care
as he watched the long line of
dark-skinned carriers padding


Profit now... Profit later/
• IMPORTANT EXTRAS ARE INCLUDED !N PRICE
• PROVEN RELIABILITY & MONEY-SAVING OPERATION
8
m
m
: "■■
£ ix &
k»s»#tt
silii
NT.80.32
NUFFIELD]
1 UNIVERSAL TRACTOR T
BY KEROSENE OR DIESEL B.M.C. ENGINES
With every Nuffield Universal tractor there is an outstanding range of
standard equipment—equipment you don’t have to buy later. And
because the Nuffield tractor operates efficiently under even the most
extreme conditions, giving the maximum power output
with minimum fuel consumption, you save more money
and valuable time on every job. For every type of
specialised work there is a wide range of “approved-
after-test” matched implements expertly designed to
work with the tractor. Prove the Nuffield Universal
on your own land—arrange with your nearest Nuffield
dealer for a fact-proving demonstration, or mail the
coupon now. You’ll soon see why your first cost is
your last cost!
Kerosene models from £879 • Diesel from £1,090
IMPORTANT EXTRAS
INCLUDED IN PRICE
Head, tail and side lights,
agricultural light, electric
starter, electric horn, belt
pulley unit, drawbar and
extension, heat gauge, hour
meter, foot plates, seat
cushion, canvas cover, tacho-
meter (extra on kerosene
models), spark arrester, Are
extinguisher.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney. Tractor
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and “Approved - after - Test Matched
Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS-
□ Place X in this square if for school project.
*spar
BMC I
ysri
r*
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
!.l
V
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PfY. LTD., ft UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRAL! fl '
ahead, their flat bare feet flip-
flopping quietly through the mud
of the narrow jungle-trail. With
a wave to Sullivan he took his
place in front of Ulilio, who
brought up the rear of the long,
winding procession.
The steady pace along the
jungle-trail was not exhausting.
There were regular rests. The
elders in charge of the carriers
knew their business, while the
prospect of several sticks of
tobacco kept everyone in a
pleasant daze of anticipation.
Dr. Hoffmill spent most of the
two days’ march in conversation
with Ulilio, determined to master
this pidgin. He had been
inclined to dismiss this talk as
a sort of basic English, a mere
lingo preserving expressions from
early traders and missionaries.
From his previous studies he
knew that the structure was
based on the way Melanesian
people thought and their
grammar, but he glimpsed the
fact that pidgin was a much more
subtle, and, indeed, accurate,
method of expression than he had
realised.
Ulilio worked hard, too. He
talked slowly and plainly and,
intelligent fellow that he was,
contrived to make his meaning
clear. At the same time, he
wanted to find out what was in
the mind of this master from a
far country. So when they
arrived at Wasam village, in the
centre of the Wasam area, Dr.
Hoffmill congratulated himself
on having gained a working
knowledge of pidgin, while
Ulilio felt that he had got a
fair idea of what the new
master believed about totem and
tabu.
Ulilio felt confident that he
was now in a position to give
to the doctor answers which
would most please him when
interrogation of the Wasam
people started. After all, efforts
to please a man with no less than
1101 b. of black twist-tobacco
for distribution practically
amounted to pleasure.
When a suitable site for the
temporary headquarters had
been selected and the tents
pitched, Dr. Hoffmill asked with
a mixture of gesticulation and
pidgin what would be fair pay
for each carrier. Ulilio replied
with fingers and a few words
that four sticks a man would be
enough and eight sticks at least
for the elders who had accom-
panied the party. Ulilio looked
forward to a comfortable 50 per
cent, rake-off of this latter rate.
“And for yourself, Ulilio?
What should I give you?”
inquired the doctor.
Ulilio’s dusky cheeks actually
warmed, in what would have
been apparent as a blush in a
paler skin. “Nothing for me,
sir,” he said stiffly. “I have done
only my duty ”
Dr. Hoffmill found it im-
possible to express in pidgin his
admiration for this stern sense
of duty, but made a note to
reward him suitably later on.
The next morning Dr. Hoffmill
awoke to a damp, green world
that was beginning to be more
familiar. He was delighted to
find that the cook, conjured up
by Ulilio, had produced a
palatable breakfast. No sooner
was the meal over than he
turned to the soldierly figure of
his mentor and asked advice
about the best sources of
information in the area.
“Well, sir,” said Ulilio, “I
think you will be surprised, but
my thought is that we should
send for Oroman. True, he is
a young man, but he is the son
of a great man and he under-
stands much.”
“That’s up to you, Ulilio,”
replied the anthropologist. “I
want to know the ways of these
people, that is all. When can
you get him here?”
“By noon, sir,” said Ulilio,
greatly contented.
Although Oroman could not
honestly be regarded as an
authority on the traditional
beliefs of the area, he was un-
doubtedly the most reliable
source of information on what
was happening at the present
time. Ulilio was depending on
him to obtain the material needed
for his report to the kiap, and
in obtaining this information
Dr. Hoffmill’s tobacco would be
extremely useful. As for the
traditional side, Ulilio now felt
perfectly confident that he could
fill-in any gaps in Oroman’s
knowledge. If things worked
according to plan everyone
would be pleased.
/"'VROMAN arrived about noon
He was a young man, plump
and panting, with intelligent
brown eyes, a grin like a slice of
watermelon and a voice as rich
and deep as gravy. Over the
years, by careful work with a
bamboo comb, he had trained
his fuzzy hair upwards until it
formed a sharp ridge more than
five-inches above his scalp in the
centre.
An interesting afternoon was
spent by all. In point of fact,
Oroman was slightly bewildered
by the questions relayed to him,
but Dr. Hoffmill was delighted
with the answers he received
from Ulilio. It was an auspicious
start to have gained so early so
much corroboration of his
theories.
After the evening meal of rice
and corned-beef, supplemented
by the locals with roast taro and
sweet-potato, Ulilio and Oroman
relaxed by their fire. That was
the time when men spoke freely,
with the darkness held at bay
by the leaping flames.
“How much tobacco did the
master give you today,
Oroman?”
“Six sticks already! ” said
Oroman, passing one across.
“Thank you,” said Ulilio.
“And now the play is over, and
you and I talk Government
business. The kiap is thinking
plenty about Wasam. He has
sent me to find out what it is
that the people are doing that
they remain so quiet.”
“Ulilio, we have bad trouble
in the Wasam, and some of our
men have done wicked things.
I will tell you all the truth, for
I know that you are in high
favor with the kiap and may
help us.”
Ulilio sat up straighter and
bent his head to listen, “I hear
you, Oroman.”
“Some days ago, Ulilio,
Kietan’s daughter, Uraska, lit
a cooking-fire near her father’s
house. 1 was in the village. There
was a tremendous bang which
made my ears go strange and I
thought I had been killed
altogether. Everything seemed
to fire up together and when
we went to look, there was noth-
ing left of Uraska.”
Ulilio whistled softly. “Indeed!
What are your thoughts
about it?”
“I have no thoughts today,”
replied the young man, “and
all men are afraid to go and tell
the kiap just yet. But perhaps
I could find out. As you know,
it is my wish to become a police-
man like you and I hope that
if I helped you in this, you would
speak for me to the kiap. If I
can find out what no man knows,
perhaps the kiap will give me a
uniform.”
“Who knows?” said Ulilio.
“All things could be.”
“Tomorrow,” announced Oro-
man with decision, “1 go to live
in the beach-village where Kietan
has his house. I will tell you all
I discover.”
During the next three days the
anthropologist pursued his
researches assiduously, Ulilio
always at his elbow interpreting
to him titbits of information
which, surprisingly, and often
ingeniously, dovetailed with the
doctor’s theories. As he wrote
up his notes in the evening, Dr.
Hoffmill was delighted over his
good fortune in having Ulilio’s
services. At times he even
suspected that the difficulties of
field-work had been exaggerated
by his colleagues, though once
or twice he asked when he could
see Oroman again for checking
some points that were not quite
clear.
One night, Ulilio was smoking
contentedly by his fire when
Oroman slipped quietly out of
the bush and sat down beside
him.
“I have big news, Ulilio,” he
whispered. “Big noises have been
heard many times by the beach
people, like the time when the
Japanese were here, and in the
villages I have eaten much fish,
but I have seen no fish marked
by a spear!”
“Well, what about it? They
were probably caught with nets.”
“Brother,” said Oroman
patronisingly, “have you not
learned yet that the Wasam
people use spears but never nets
to catch fish?”
Ulilio pondered for a while.
“Well, how do they catch them?”
he asked.
“I don’t know for sure, and
no man will speak to me of it,
but I do remember that when
Japan was here and in the days
before, I have seen white men
throw bombs into the water,
which killed the fish for them
to pick up later.”
“But this would be against the
law!” objected Ulilio.
“And there is another big thing
I have found. If I am right in
this, I believe I know how
Uraska died.”
“Oroman, I always knew you
were a clever man, and you will
make an excellent policeman.
Tell me what is in your mind.”
“Well,” said Oroman, “these
are my thoughts. If there are
men using bombs to kill fish,
they must have some place to
hide them, and perhaps Kietan
had buried one near his house.
When the pile of ash at her old
fireplace got too big, Uraska,
who, being a woman, would not
have been told, may have built a
fire above the place where her
father had planted some bomb.”
“Go with all speed then,
Oroman, and tell Kietan that I
want to talk to him.”
“Wait a little, Ulilio,” objected
Oroman. “This work is mine
and I fear that you might forget
to tell the kiap how much I have
done. Besides, there’s the matter
of the tobacco I would have
received if I had stayed here and
answered the questions of the
new master.”
“As to the tobacco, Oroman,
every man has his duty to the
Government, and I am sure the
kiap will reward you for what
you have done. Besides, when
you \ return tomorrow, with
Kietan, I will use my influence
with the new master, who thinks
much of me, to persuade him to
ask you many questions.”
WHEN Oroman returned the
next day with Kietan,
Ulilio was as good as his word.
Dr. Hoffmill was pleased to see
him and Oroman answered ques-
tions to the value of almost half-
a-pound of tobacco.
Ulilio, as soon as he could get
away from the tedious task of
interpreting which had so
suddenly become a hindrance to
his plans rather than a help,
cornered Kietan and set about
getting the full story from him.
The interrogation was brief
but not brutal. The Royal Papua
and New Guinea Constabulary
knows its limitations.
On the other hand, because of
the knowledge which Ulilio had
gained from Oroman, Kietan
quickly realised that the “011-ee
tok” technique was quite useless
in this case.
“Where did you find the
bombs that you buried by your
house, Kietan?” said Ulilio
sternly.
The old man was a good loser
and was anxious not to bring
down on his head any further
wrath from this formidable
young man with the dread weight
of Government authority behind
him.
“There is a hole in the
mountain just up from the mouth
of the Alimpit River,” he con-
fessed, “and there in the war-time
the Japanese hid many bombs.
Most are still there.”
“And who else,” asked Ulilio,
looking ominous, “has been
o Continued on page 30)


v
wm
• • ••- :•
The new
HOLDEN
is gloriously new
Pictures and words can give you some
idea of the glorious things that have,
happened to Holden. But the real thrill
lies in seeing and driving the car itself.
For the new Holden is wonderfully
styled inside and out. It’s longer, lower
—-with a new radiator grille, new
hooded headlamps and completely new
lines from bonnet to boot.
And when you sit comfortably back in
one of these new Holdens you’ll be
conscious of many other great new
features. Like the smart new instru-
ment panel, the 40% greater vision, and
the beautiful upholstery in new colours.
You will find more room— 2\" more in
front and nearly 3" in the back.
But the new Holden story doesn’t stop
at styling. There’s finer performance.
There’s new handling ease and a new
experience of comfort and safety in a
family car.
Whether you compare today’s car values
by sheer good looks, by performance, by
comfort, by safety or by price you’ll
find a combination of all these values in
the new Holden that you won’t find ir
any other car.
It’s open house now at Holden show-
rooms everywhere. The new models
are on display, ready for your inspection
and trial. See them—drive them, and
we think you will agree that Holden is
now more than ever Australia’s best
car buy.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
•registered trade mark
•‘Air Chief' are the only Car Radios specially
designed for the new Holden.
• Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrange-
ments are available.
LIST PRICES FROM £9lO pl.us sales tax
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • A DPI .A TOP, • PERTH
n dealers throughout Australia
T15S
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO NATAL CHARLES BABAROVICH
lately of Linton Street East Brisbane in
the State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.—T ARE
NOTICE that your wife JOYCE LETITIA
BABAROVICH has commenced an action
No. 153 of 1956 against you for disso-
lution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion without cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane within thirty (30)
clear days from the date of publication
hereof You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition from CHARLES HARRIES &
LOWES, Solicitors, Inns of Court, 21
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.—L. CHRIS-
TOPHERSON, Second Deputy Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscripti§n Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3/13/6 Foreign .... £3/8/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
Bush Dentists
By NESS CALVERT
A WHITE rag dangled
from the pole on old
McPhee’s wharf. McPhee
was sitting on the river-
bank leaning against a gumtree
smoking his pipe with the other
men who had gathered there on
this midsummer day of 1908.
The women complained of the
hot afternoon sun, while the
children threw a few more sticks
on the fire which had already
been made under a kerosene-tin
of water.
They watched for some sign
of the small black steamboat
that should soon be coming into
sight around the bend in the
river.
On board today was the
dentist, who, with his sister, came
this way twice a year.
The dentist was a small man
with a smiling face. He
frequently rubbed his hands to-
gether as though eager to get on
with his job of pulling teeth.
His sister did neither of these
things, nor did she talk very
much, but stood limply by, for
the sole reason, it seemed, of
collecting the money.
It was hard to say at what
time the boat would arrive to-
day, because all the way along
the river the captain would stop
whenever he saw a white cloth
hanging from a post or a tree,
for that was to indicate that
someone had toothache.
Now, as the little boat came
chugging into sight, a toothless
old man hurried down to help
tie it to the wharf.
The captain blew the,whistle
in greeting to the people as they
loiled or stood around on the
bank. The river was narrow
here and in parts very shallow,
but the captain had sailed along
it for many years and knew every
hidden rock and mud-
bank. With little trouble he
manoeuvred his boat around and
brought it safely alongside the
wharf. He pushed his cap on
to the back of his head, lit his
pipe and, with a broad grin on
his face, leaned out of his cabin-
window to watch the proceed-
ings.
r pHE dentist and his sister,
_ helped by the toothless man,
jumped off the boat and walked
up the grassy bank to where the
kerosene - tin of water was
bubbling on the fire.
He dropped his 'instruments
into an enamel dish standing on
a small table and poured boiling
water over them. After wash-
ing his hands he picked up a
large piece of sheeting that had
been left folded there for him.
Shaking it out he said “Come
on, who’s first?”
A small child with a swollen
face sat down on the chair
beside the table that old
McPhee had carried down
from his home on the hill. The
dentist lifted the instruments out
of the water with a long pair of
silver tongs and waved them in
the air to cool.
“Now, open wide,” he said,
and in a few minutes the first
tooth was out.
The charge for this was a shil-
ling, but if anyone could stand
having all his teeth out in this
way and guaranteed to get his
false ones from the dentist, no
charge was made. On the
dentist’s next visit, the impression
would be taken. After making
the teeth, he would post them on.
Any adjustments would have to
wait till the end of the year
when he came again. So it was
not unusual to see false teeth
sitting on most people’s mantel-
shelves.
This dentist never worried
about fillings; all troublesome
teeth came out.
“You might as well pull out
wM&t I have left, I don't think
there are very many,” said a
man with a long moustache as
he sat in the chair. In a few
minutes the dentist was throwing
the teeth rapidly over his
shoulder and they landed plonk,
plonk, in the river near by.
The captain, still watching
from his cabin, said: “One-
bob . . . two-bob .-. . three-
bob . . .” as the teeth dropped
into the water.
CO here, on the river-bank in
the hot afternoon sun, the
tooth-pulling went on.
The last patient, a small fair-
haired child, was lifted into the
chair. As the dentist tied the
blood-stained sheet around her,
she began to cry. This seemed to
touch the captain; he took a
coin from his pocket and with a
flick of his thumb sent it spin-
ning to the child’s feet. The
dentist picked it up and put it
into her hand and a tiny smile
spread over her face and she
looked at the captain.
“Go easy with her,” he roared
as he spat in the river, “or I’ll
bust you in two.”
The captain was a big, burly
man, rough and impatient, and
meant what he said, and the little
hand-rubbing dentist seemed to
become nervous, for he turned
the chair around as if to keep
an eye on him. Then in a few
"seconds the little tooth went
“ping” into the river. The
captain shuddered and said
“That makes twelve-bob.”
The dentist’s sister took no
part in these operations, but as
each patient slithered off the
chair she held out her hand for
the shilling. As it was handed
to her, she dropped it into the
well-worn peggy-bag hanging
on her arm. Everyone gave
her the right money ; it seemed
they did not trust her to give
them change.
Now the last tooth was out
and the captain was anxious to
be on his way. He blew the
whistle and the little boat began
to churn up the river.
I got toothache a few
months later the dentist
had gone. Mother was up and
down all night with me, filling
an old sock with salt heated in
the pan. I held this to my face
but it did no good, the pain just
went on and on. After a couple
of nights Mother said I couldn’t
wait for the dentist, to come
back, so she sent for Old Tom.
Old Tom, as everyone called
him, had a large property a few
miles from our place, and
bought and sold cattle and
horses. He never worked —he
left that to his thin little wife
and four sons. All his time was
taken up in riding around the
countryside on his fine black
horse, on the lookout for cheap
stock.
Old Tom always measured a
drought or flood by the number
of starving cattle or horses he
could buy for next-to-nothing.
Then, after driving them to his
paddock in the hills, he would
leave them to be fed and cared
for by his family while he went
off and looked for more. Quite
often some of them would drop
to the roadside, but that did not
worry Old Tom, he kept hustling
them along. He was different
from a farmer and cared noth-
ing for the stock he fattened
and sold.
Very often, when the drought
or flood had passed, farmers
would buy back their own stock
to get them away from him,
for most farmers love their
cattle, but to Old Tom they
meant just money.
He loved only the fine black
horse he always rode. He said
he had the best breed of horses
in the district, and, knowing his
violent temper and love of
fighting, people seldom disputed
this. If they did, he would
jump down, drag the other man
off his horse and fight him on the
spot.
In one of his many fights, he
had lost an eye, and for years
had worn a glass eye.
TT was late in the day and
A Mother and I sat on the
wooden stool on the veranda
waiting for Old Tom. “Here he
comes now, I know the canter
of his horse,” said Mother ; and
in a few minutes he rode into
sight around the side of the hill.
He tied his horse to the sliprails
and gave it a hard slap on the
neck.
He always wore the same
clothes —a wide-brimmed hat,
brown riding-breeches, leggings
and silver spurs. He walked
across the grass and as he came
up the steps he threw his hat on
the floor.
I knew Old Tom could stop
toothache in some magic way,
but just how I did not know,
and now as I opened my mouth
for him to see, I expected the
pain to go in a flash, but it
didn’t.
“Hm, hm, hm, this will be
easy with such a big mouth as
yours.”
it was a long time before I
forgave Old Tom for saying
that.
He took a pair of silver pincers
from his pocket and said, “Come
on now, open that big mouth of
yours.”
This was no magic, I thought,
as I realised that he was going
to pull it, and with my mouth
firmly closed I shook my head
in protest. All the coaxing from
them both made no difference to
me. The little patience Old Tom
had was.fast running out, as he
stood there in his riding-breeches
and spurs, waiting; Mother
begged me, once again to open
my mouth.
He put the pincers back in his
pocket and for a moment I
thought he was going, but instead
he slipped his glass eye out and
dropped it into my hand. I
wondered how he could see
without it.
“Here, hold this,” he said,
“and don’t drop it or it’ll cost
your mother a pretty penny.”
Mother was horrified and
seemed afraid to touch it, for
she held out her apron and said
“Drop it in here ; I’ve no money
to buy a new one.”
While this was going on, Old
Tom managed to hold me and
get my mouth open. I felt the
pincers crush around my tooth
and with a sharp stab of pain it
was out. I sat there shivering,
not knowing whether I was cold
or afraid.
Old Tom held out his hand
and said “That’ll be a shilling.”
Mother gave it to him and
he picked up his hat and
walked down the steps.
“Where did you learn to pull
teeth?” Mother asked as he
walked across the grass.
He wiped the pincers on his
trousers and dropped them back
into his pocket.
“I practise on the cows.”
He gave his horse a pat on the
neck, sprang into the saddle and
rode away.


"Chocks Away!"
R.A.A.F. from
Avros to Jets
By W. J. DUNCAN
BACK in 1921, I remember,
the R.A.A.F. hopped out
of the nest of its Army
parent and took flight as a
separate Service. Its aircraft were
part of gift equipment. Proto-
types can be seen in the War
Memorial at Canberra. Took
my grandson there —he promptly
asked, “Hey, Pop, did those
things really fly ?”
There’s the Avro 504 K, with
its rotary engine—more tempera-
mental than a film-star. The
Clerget engine could turn on
every variety of engine-failure.
Occasionally it tossed off a
cylinder, and the resultant vibra-
tion made a dentist’s drill seem
like a soothing massage.
The Avro had to be flown all
the time. If not kept on a tight
rein, it’d turn round and bite;
then slide over into a spin which,
if at low altitude, was syn-
chronous with an urgent message
to the undertaker.
The Avro had a long skid, the
“toothpick,” projecting between
the wheels to prevent it somer-
saulting. One day a pilot whose
mental processes were faster than
a tortoise, but not much, opened
the throttle to test the engine,
but instead of holding the
control-stick back to keep the
tail down he held it forward.
Up went the tail, and the Avro
quivered on the toothpick like a
rheumatic ballet-dancer. The
dumbfounded expression on the
pilot’s face was no sillier than
the sight of the Avro trying to
bore an oil-well with its pro-
peller.
It is not generally known that
the Avro was the forerunner of
the helicopter. Coming in to land
in a high wind, the forward-speed
of the Avro barely equalled the
wind-speed, and it approached
the earth vertically. The ground-
crews stood immediately beneath
to grab the wings as soon as they
were within reach.
Like a baby sample of the
Avro was the Sopwith Pup, a
single-seater with the lightest
controls of any aircraft—one
sneeze and it looped three times.
From the Avro the pupil
moved on to the De Havilland 9.
This was the long-range bomber
—it could fly for six hours, and
cover about 450 miles. But not
more than six hours, as my com-
manding officer well knew when
I once tried to pass off an eight-
hours’ absence in the country.
The DH9 was a considerate
aircraft; its Puma engine always
gave a half-hour’s warning be-
fore any kind of engine-failure.
And it was a rugged bus. I
landed one fairly and squarely
on top of three sheep; didn’t
improve the sheep, and the
undercart was cracked, but even
that did not turn the DH9 over.
Its stability was shown one
morning when two pilots took
one out, one flying and the other
in the rear cockpit. At about
8000 ft. they agreed to change
seats, scrambling over the narrow
fuselage, holding firmly against
the slipstream.
And what did it prove? Well,
what’s the point of most of the
silly acts of pilots?
The DH9 was the R.A.A.F.’s
first V.I.P. aircraft. In 1925 the
Governor-General, Lord Stone-
haven, was flown in one from
Nowra to Melbourne, sitting up
in the hard back seat, his nose
almost icing-up. Less sturdy is
the modern V.1.P., sitting at
ease in an upholstered cabin.
More powerful was the DH9A,
with its War I Liberty engine.
It had an astonishing ability to
float when brought in to land at
too high a speed. At a gliding
speed of seventy it could be
landed with ease ; at eighty or
more it floated on a level keel
until the surplus speed was lost,
often going clear across the air-
field. I had such an experience
in the distinguished company of
the present Chief of the Air Staff.
From the near edge of the field
we floated ; blissfully sailed on,
past the hangars, past the jeering
critics, over the boundary-fence,
to make an undignified arrival
in the next paddock.
It was in the DH9A that we
did our first parachute-jumps.
None of this sissy stuff where the
paratrooper’s ripcord is hooked
to a line and he merely jumps.
Not for us. We climbed out of
the rear cockpit, down a ladder
attached outside the fuselage,
dropped into the ether, and
hoped that the parachute was
correctly packed.
The fighter-aircraft was the
SESA, a small single-seater with
a range of about 200 miles. Its
cockpit was so narrow and
cramped that a certain portly
gentleman could fly it only by
sticking his elbows out into the
breeze.
Seaplanes, too: the Fairey
11 ID in which Goble and
Mclntyre flew round Australia.
There was also a DHSO to which
gumboots were fitted so that the
present Sir Richard Williams
could go island-hopping round
New Guinea; And, for training,
the übiquitous Avro with a pair
of flat-bottomed floats. When it
alighted, the floats hit the water
with a smack which could be
heard umpteen miles off.
After alighting, the pilot
checked to see that the wings
hadn’t fallen off, and that no
wires were flapping loose. Then
he could take-off again, but on
a calm sea not even a jet-pro-
pelled kick in the tail would have
iifted the Avro off the water.
It was with such a line-up that
the R.A.A.F. gave its first air-
display at the end of 1924 on
Flemington racecourse. The
display was given without any
serious hitch, but a rehearsal a
few days previously at Fleming-
ton gave Melbourne its biggest
laugh for many a day.
Never were there so many
prangs in so few minutes. An
Avro played ring-a-rosy round
a furlong-post; a DH9A tried
the water-jump, but failed to
clear; sundry aircraft spread
themselves round the track. The
doc. and the ambulance charged
around the course, gasping in
unison, trying to catch-up.
One officer ruined his cap,
jumping on it, when an onlooker
drawled, “Say, Skipper, would
you call that a good landing?”
But, as P/O Prune used to say,
any landing is a good landing if
the pilot can walk away; and
they all walked away that day
except one man with a broken
collarbone.
The R.A.A.F. roosted at Point
Cook then, with sporadic flights
into the blue. The first expan-
sion came in 1925, with the
opening of stations at Laverton
(Vic.) and Richmond (N.S.W.).
Provision had been made in the
Budget for this, but little
happened until June, 1925. Then
it was suddenly realised that the
money, if not used by the end
of June, would go back to the
Treasury.
So there was a scramble to
get the two stations established.
And, as regards Richmond, what
a scramble!
No. 3 Squadron, as it was to
become, set off in a hurry from
Point Cook one fine morning
with 12 aircraft, four each of
Avro, DH9 and SESA. The first
one (mine) stood on its nose at
Benalla. Several got stuck at
Cootamundra (must have liked
old Dodds’s pub). Another
spread itself round a creek-bed at
Gunning.
Only two got through to Rich-
mond before June 30, but the
“It’s that Olympic high-dive show-off."
station was established before
the end of the financial year.
By 1928 the R.A.A.F. was
running out of gift equipment.
The aircraft-depot had done a
good job, and it was remarkable
what they could reconstruct from
a tailplane and half-a-wing;
but there was a limit to their
ingenuity. The R.A.A.F. was
nearly grounded.
In Sydney Wing-Commander
(now Sir Laurence) Wackett had
an experimental station where he
was trying to hatch new aircraft.
After some time he produced
a flying-boat, the Widgeon. At
its first trial on Botany Bay the
Widgeon forsook flying for
surfing, tried to dive under a
breaker, and hit bottom, nearly
drowning its crew.
Wackett produced another
Widgeon, which flew for a couple
of years, but it was several years
before Wackett and the Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corpora-
tion went into noticeable produc-
tion.
In 1928 the Government let its
head go and bought some of the
early Moths. The R.A.A.F. felt
that it was becoming a modern
air-force, especially when, shortly
after, it got the flying-armchair,
officially known as the Wapiti.
This was a gentleman’s kite,
without vices. It had a super-
charged radial engine, but we
were not permitted to open the
throttle through the gate except
in emergency. Then the oil-
companies came up with some-
thing called Borneo spirit, and
using this we could open the
throttle all the way.
Apart from Borneo spirit, our
fuel was ordinary motor-petrol,
because the oil-companies had
hitherto failed to invent octanes.
And as motor-spirit was
normally sold in four-gallon tins
it was one of the minor delights
of distance-flying to land on a
country airfield and fill a 100-
gallon tank from tins.
About this time, too, the
R.A.A.F. went to sea. The Navy
baffled everybody by launching
a strange ship named Albatross,
Australia’s first aircraft-carrier.
Not a flat-top; it merely had a
hatch through which aircraft
were lowered and put to bed. It
can still be seen on occasion
entering Sydney Habor, but fly-
ing the Greek flag and carrying
migrants.
The RA.A.F. equipment for
Albatross was the wooden-
hulled amphibian the Seagull.
Most inaptly named, because it
landed and taxied like an elderly
barnyard duck.
Having partly re-equipped, the
R.A.A.F.. next experienced
another bout of the chronic
complaint from which it has
always suffered —not enough air-
craft. It was depression-time,
and, in fact, the R.A.A.F. almost
went out of existence. Flying
was so restricted that, in 1931,
the pilot with most flying-time
for the year had notched only 76
hours.
In that year, too, came some-
thing which must be unique in
any Air Force—pilots paid for
their flying. In other words, a
pilot who wished to fly more than
the official maximum was per-
mitted to do so on repayment of
the flying-cost. Certainly aero-
club pilots do that all the time,
but Air Force pilots are paid to
fly, not the other way round.
Nevertheless, by the method
of two pilots hiring one Moth
and sharing the cost, there were
some pleasant visits to country
centres. There was additional
flying, also, when country towns
staged air-pageants, the local
committee paying the cost of
having R.A.A.F. aircraft giving
exhibitions of aerobatics.
When, in the ’thirties, more
petrol started flowing, another
aircraft lined-up on the tarmac —
the Anson. Some fatal accidents
led to a newspaper giving its
opinion that R.A.A.F. pilots
were not trained to fly fast
modern bombers.
Imagine anyone calling old
Aggie a fast bomber! Yet it was
the nearest we had to a bomber
at the beginning of War 11, with
the recently-produced Wirraway
for our fighter-strength.
And so, in 1939, with our
Ansons and Wirraways, we
roared into action. No. 12
Squadron was hastily formed
and rushed to Darwin, navigat-
ing along the Overland Tele-
Igraph. Just as well the Japs did
'not roar back at us then, because
the nearest reserve aircraft to
Darwin was back at Melbourne.
A Jap attack would have given
us one hectic day, after which 12
Squadron would have joined the
infantry.
Not that there was much im-
provement by 1942, when the
Japs did attack, but the R.A.A.F.
had meanwhile acquired some
Hudsons, and were able to hit
back to some extent.
As the war went on, later
types of aircraft came to us:
Beaufighters, Liberators, Kitty-
hawks, Spitfires, Mustangs, and
the far-wandering Catalina. For
a time the R.A.A.F. was a really
modem air-force.
With these also came some air-
craft that nobody else wanted.
One can imagine an American
staff-officer in the Pentagon,
scratching his head and wonder-
ing what to do with the junk,
saying, “We’ll give ’em to the
Australians—they’ll have a go at
anything at all.”
Which comment would not be
far off the beam, because the
R.A.A.F., despite the inade-
quacy of its aircraft, always does
have a go. Like the gallant band
over Rabaul in early 1942, who,
in their wabbling Wirraways,
took on the Jap Zeros, and,
almost impossibly, shot down
some before they themselves
“bought it.”
Following War II there was a
recurrence of the chronic disease,
and the R.A.A.F. flew on with
its war-time Lincolns and
Mustangs, adding to its laurels
in Korea with the latter.
Then, the Kerosene Age. First,
the Vampire, then the Canberra
and the Meteor. Where it was
once a two-day effort (at least)
to fly from Melbourne to Syd-
ney, now the Officer Command-
ing at Amberley can toddle off
to Melbourne to have morning-
tea with Air Board and return
to Amberley for lunch (although
no doubt he would prefer to fly
in any other direction than
towards Air Board).
It used to be a major opera-
tion to fly across-country a
couple of hundred miles ; now,
as a mere local flight, the
R.A.A.F. sends Canberras to
Washington to say goo d-
morning.
Anyway, who the heck wants
to go screaming across the
Pacific per a load of blazing
kerosene? What, me! Well,
maybe, if offered the chance.
But all I can do now is sit on
the retired bench, and, when I
see a vapor trail in the sky, say,
“I remember back in 192- . .


:
ill
■
■%
Ms
fi:.i 'O'
Itw convinced
Capstan
is better tobacco"
436 D .8.56
WUNDERLICH SINKS
outshine 5 the* all
/ / / // II |\V\\\V
m
m
mm
mi
i
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on. all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
The NEW
c~
STAINLESS
S T E EL
SINKS
6252
SEE THEM AT YQUR HARDWARE STORE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney’s spring racing moves
now to Rosehill, with next Satur-
day’s main attraction there the
mile-and-a-quarter Guineas,
likely to throw additional light
on A.J.C. Derby prospects. A
Melbourne contestant or two are
expected in the line-up, while
Sydney’s main contenders for
classic honors were all
nominated.
Fire Flash, Harnham Hill,
Commissionaire and Hot Spell
may have most to do with the
finish of the Guineas.
Twelve months ago Caranna
easily defeated Kingster and
Knave in the Rosehill Guineas,
then won the £lO,OOO Derby at
Randwick, defeating Gay Ranick
and Prince Dante. In the past
quarter - century only other
winners of the same double have
been Tea Rose, Moorland and
Phar Lap. The distance has
been 10 furlongs only since
1948 ; Pride of Egypt’s 2min.
If sec. in 1954 is best time.
Fast times were run at Tatter-
sail’s Club’s Chelmsford Stakes
meeting at Randwick last Satur-
day. Only outsider to win in
seven events was Battlement in
the opening race, the mile-and-
a-half Novice.
Race form didn’t give Battle-
ment the bolter’s chance of win-
ning, and at one stage he was at
50 to 1, starting at 33’s. How-
ever, the colt is by Ter any an’s
sire, Stockade (imp.), and is bred
on staying lines. He’s to be given
his chance in the Derby. When
sold as a yearling at the Rand-
wick auction in April of last
year the colt realised a modesl
200gns. ; for some reason he
was offered again a week later,
and found a new purchaser at
300gns. Dowager, dam of Battle-
ment, is by Golden Sovereign
(imp.) from Lady Tarwyn by
Brazen (imp.) from an imported
mare, Landsend by Swynford.
In winning the Chelmsford,
Advocate ran the nine furlongs
in 1.49 y, an Australian record,
narrowly cutting the previous
best (1.49|) set up by Delta in
the same race four years ago. It
was Advocate’s fifth win in a
row, and maybe his best
performance. Hb was second-
last into the straight, and fully
deserved his success. A. Ward,
who has ridden him in all five
wins, was seen to advantage on
this best son of Confessor (imp.),
but backers of Caranna had no
bouquets for Caranna’s jockey,
W. Camer. Caranna was
narrowly beaten. Advocate has
started in 65 races for 13 wins,
eight seconds and 15 thirds, bag-
ging £27,342 in stakes.
Winner at four of his last five
starts and second in his other
run, Fire Flash has come right
into the Derby spotlight: the
classic now seems an open event.
Should the colt acquit himself
well in the Rosehill Guineas he
should make it tough for Derby
opponents. Fire Flash has shown
stamina in his latest runs. He
came late on the scene to win the
Three-and-four-year-old Handi-
cap at Randwick. Owner R. I.
Nossal and trainer M. F. Ander-
son believe Fire Flash will have
no trouble in seeing the Derby
distance out. His sire, Brim-
stone, by Dante (English Derby
winner), won races to one mile
and six furlongs, while his dam,
Farmington (imp.), is a mare by
Colombo from Roxina by
Diophon, tracing back to Gains-
borough. The colt’s half-brother,
Royal Stream, won, among other
races, Tattersall’s Chelmsford
Stakes, while another half-
brother, Gallant Leader, won
races at Randwick up to a mile-
and-a-half.
Before his fine win in the
Tramway Handicap, Teranyan
had filled five minor places in six
starts. He has run his best races
at Randwick, and is now all set
for the Epsom, in which he has
the same weight as he carried
on Saturday, 8.7. Gentle Lu,
second in the Tramway, drops
from 8.5 to 7.13, which gives her
a chance of turning .the tables.
Epsom lightweight Cuirassier
(7.4, or 41b. above the limit)
came from the rear of the field
at the home-turn for third in the
Tramway. Compound ran much
below expectations, as did the
heavily-supported Adelina.
At his start prior to winning
the Spring Handicap at Rand-
wick six-year-old Blazeaway had
covered a lot of ground and had
finished second to Lindbergh at
Canterbury. An apprentice had
the mount that day, but at his
latest outing George Moore was
in the saddle, and just as well for
supporters of Blazeaway, because
Moore had to use all his vigor
to stall off Half Hennesy in a
close finish. Roman Holiday was
third. All three are in the
Metropolitan (October 1), and
maybe they will be improved
by this latest outing—particularly
Half Hennesy and Roman
Holiday.
Mandingos, formerly of Mel-
bourne, won the Welter at Rand-
wick in a canter. Raced by Dr.
S. A. Smith, one of the AJ.C.’s
medical officers, Mandingos-is a
five-year-old by Masthead (imp.)
from Malinke, and has now won
at his last three starts. His time
for the seven furlongs, 1.23 3/10,
equalled Teranyan’s in the Tram-
way Handicap, so the win was
full of merit. Mandingos has the
Carbine blood in his make-up.
His dam, Malinke, is a Valiant
Chief mare from Bright Queen
by Drake (imp.). Family-lines
include a Melbourne Cup winner,
Dark Felt.
Age still doesn’t wither ’em,
and custom merely makes them
all the better leppers. Moltema,
Saturday’s winner of the Boomer-
ang Hurdle at Moonee Valley, is
a nine-year-old, who has done
most of his racing in Tassie.
Melbourne’s best horses are
working up to the more im-
portant events of the spring
round, and the three-year-olds
are being given ample oppor-
tunities to prove themselves prior
to the running of the Victoria
Derby. Several aspirants for
classic honors raced at the
Moonee Valley fixture. The
most interesting aspect of the
running at the Valley was the
close finish between stablemates
Arlunya and Astoria II in the
£2OOO J. F. Feehan Handicap
(one mile). Astoria was an out-
sider, while Arlunya started at
evens, and the “roughie” almost
caused an upset. Arlunya carried
9.4, to win by a head. One of
the best-fancied horses for the
Caulfield Cup, he drops to 8.12
in that mile-and-a-half.
English-born American horse-
man Johnny Longden became
the world’s champion jockey
when he piloted three winners
at Del Mar, California, bring-
ing his total to 4871, one more
than the Sir Gordon Richards
record. Longden, now 46, won
the A.J.C. All-Age Stakes at
Randwick on The Groom (12 to
1) on April 12, 1950. He owns
a plane, in which he travels to
an almost daily round of U.S.
race-fixtures.
+ +
Before a record V.F.L. pre-
liminary-final crowd of 94,104,
who paid £15,987, Collingwood
smashed Footscray 15.6-7-15,
and, as was the case last year,
meets Melbourne in the “grand.”
The game was “action-packed.”
After a dazzling first-quarter in
which nine goals were kicked
from 10 shots (’Wood 6.1-3.0)
’Scray kept ’Wood scoreless next
quarter, for a one-point lead at
half-time; afterwards, though
’Scray kept trying, and had the
same chances, ’Wood threw
everything into it, and ran away.
The two particular Magpie stars
were skipper Mann (in his last
season) and young full-forward
Ken Smale, who, dropped from
the game against Melbourne the
previous week, came back to
boot 8.1.
The 1956 Magarey medal, S.A.
football league’s “Brownlow,”
was won by Port Adelaide
centreman Dave Boyd, with
Haydn Bunton jnr., of North
Adelaide, runner-up. Boyd, 27,
played his first senior game back
in 1946 ; he’s been in the S.A.
side for the past eight years, and
was at the 1953 and 1956
carnivals. Winner of this year’s
J. J. Liston trophy, the V.F.A.
“best-and-fairest” medal, is yet
another centreman, Johnny
Martin, 23, of Williamstown.
(Brownlow winner was also a
centreman, Peter Box.)
“C.A.A.”: Although it has a
population of less than’ 500,
Beulah, a Vic. Mallee township,
has won the last three district
football-premierships in both
first and second eighteens. The
seniors have played in the last
five grand-finals.
“M’Lou”: What’s a flooded
river between keen footballers
and their regular training?
Wiminera (Vic.) brothers John
and Fred Barr rowed over the
swollen Wimmera River, and in
a truck borrowed from a
neighbor ploughed through a
further five or six muddy miles
to train as usual,
* * *
St. George deservedly ousted
Randwick 17-3 from Sydney
Rugby Union. ’Wick scored first,
a penalty-goal, and it was only
3-all at half-time, with another
penalty, from Stapleton’s boot;
but thereafter St. George, its big
forwards particularly, called the
tune and played the melody, with
the Greens’ part confined
to a diminuendo accompaniment
fading right away. Gordon and
St. George now play-off in the
grand-final on Saturday.
At the S.C.G., with 61,987
watching, St. George beat Bal-
main 18-12, to carry off the
Sydney Rugby League premier-
ship ; its last win was in 1949.
The Saints, a man short for three
parts, led 8-0 at half-time, and
always looked to have the game
in hand. They were capably led
by Ken Kearney, later appointed
captain of the Kangaroos to
tour England and France. In
Brisbane, Brothers defeated
Wests 17-10, to win their first
premiership in 17 years.
* * *
Rosewall defeated Hoad in the
US. singles final, and thus
stopped Hoad from getting the
“grand slam.” With Fraser also
reaching the semi-finals, Aus-
tralia’s players did exceeding
well in the titles.
* * *
Little-known Sydney runner
John Russell, who seemed to be
in the field only to make-up the
number, won the Australian
marathon, over what will be
virtually the Olympic course, in
2hrs. 26min. 37.8 sec. He
finished strongly, as if he'd run
an 880yds. race. Keith Olleren-
shaw, favored to win, was
second.
In a race at Malmo (Sweden)
last week British runner Gordon
Pirie, due in Australia soon, set
a new world-record 7min. 52.8-
sec. for 3000-metres. Previous
time was 7min. 55.65ec., held
jointly by Pirie and the
Hungarian, Iharos. Pirie led-in
the three Hungarians who were
out here recently ; of the trio,
only Roszavolgyi, who finished
second inside the old record, any-
way matched Pirie. In June
“Puffing” Pirie (because of the
way he puffs-out his cheeks when
running) set the present world
5000-metres time, 13min. 36.8 sec.
He’s made some great runs in the
last year or so. One of his few
stated aims as yet unachieved is
to run the 4min.-mile ; but, being
the determined fellow he is, he
probably will do that some day.
* * *
“Rix”: Always a crowd-
pleaser, Don “Bronco” Johnson
is still drawing the fans and
collecting a sizeable pile of
shillings taking on two men at
once in a tent doing the rounds
of the country shows. As a
fighter, he seems to me to have
maybe slipped a bit, but as an
up-and-coming spruiker he’s the
goods!


"Whew! That was close!"
JUST SMEER LUCK
By DON JORDAN
ONE of the reasons
reporters have furrows
in their foreheads is their
continual search for an
apt term for someone’s close
shave.
They find repeatedly that the
odds of winning the lottery are
short compared with some of the
amazing things that come off.
A “miracle escape” often deals
with the situation, but has
whiskers on it. Sentences
beginning “Fate dealt....” are
spiked with feeling by the subs.
To the reporter, finding a new
way of saying that someone has
been very tinny, and keeping
one eye on the clock, can be a
difficult exercisie. You might
like to try it with some of these
actual happenings in and around
Sydney and parts adjacent:,
Burnt Fingers
ALAN ROSS, a hefty six-
footer, was toiling hard
that Sunday afternoon. The
Railways Department was taking
advantage of the Sabbath, and
the quieter timetables that went
with it, to re-lay some sections
of a track on newly-built founda-
tions. It would be solid enough
for the big diesel trains that
would soon roar over the line.
Alan Ross was driving a big
mobile crane, on a stretch of
line midway between Sydney's
suburbs of Campsie and Bei-
more.
About 4.30 p.m. the workmen
signalled to Ross that they had
fixed all the fastenings to another
36ft. section of lines and sleepers.
He moved the controls, the
crane whined, and the big piece
of track lifted easily into the air.
Just as he got it to the right
height for swinging it to where
it ought to lay, the crane
toppled. The length of track
fell neatly across two main lines,
blocking them for hours. And,
as it bowed after them, the
crane’s steel jib came to rest on
the electrified overhead-wires.
Tire crane, the cabin, the
controls- —and Ross —all received
1500 volts.
Ross survived, and his recol-
lections were brief and vivid.
“The crane was sparking under-
neath like an oxy-welding plant,”
he said.
The shock threw him from his
seat and out the open cabin-
door.
The muddy ground around the
crane was steaming from the
shorting high voltage, and
seemed like a piece of the hot-
springs resorts of New Zealand.
Ross picked himself up and
went over himself very carefully.
He had three burnt fingers.
It had only been a whim that
made him leave his cabin-door
open that day. Up to then he had
invariably worked with it closed.
Ears
A/TISS ALICE REARDON
owes her life to good
hearing.
She was walking home along
McElhone-street, Woolloomoo-
loo, one evening after work, not
paying much attention to any-
thing, and wondering what was
for tea.
Her way took her along a
narrow footpath at the base of
a huge block of sandstone on
which perch a row of houses and
blocks of flats, high above, at the
back of King’s Cross.
She heard a creaking noise,
she recalled later, and looked up.
Her mouth fell open and she
could not move.
It seemed like slow motion.
High above her a rock appeared
to be slowly detaching itself
from the cliff-face and then
falling, falling.
It weighed about three tons.
She felt the whole footpath
tremble as it hit and showered
her with crumbs of sandstone.
It fell right at her feet.
The Wreck
THE Hereward lay rusting in
the shallows of Maroubra
Beach for about 55 years.
She had been an iron sailing-
ship of 1593 tons, and she went
aground in a storm on the night
of May {i , 1898.
Surf-club officials repeatedly
described her jagged keel, which
lay like a saw-blade just under
the highwater-mark, as a menace
to swimmers.
The Hereward caused a big
mass-rescue in 1948. Twenty
swimmers found themselves
caught in a rip, and were headed
for shredding on the razor-sharp
ribs when the lifesavers reached
them.
That was one Hereward
narrow-escape story.
In 1952 it was a lifesaver who
nearly lost his life —when his
line caught in the wreck.
Close-shaves enough . . . Get-
ting rid of the menace was also
pure luck.
The Hereward’s bones with-
stood expert assaults for nearly
20 years. Private contractors
had tried to blow her up, or
tear her apart. The Navy had a
try at eliminating the problem
of the old sailing-boat, and found
itself sunk for a solution.
It was a perpetual worry to
the local council, making a
dangerous hazard in an other-
wise perfect surfing-beach.
It was sheer luck —bad for the
Hereward, good for the council
—that overcame her in the end.
There was a noise of clinking
glassware in the background
an excited official of the
council rang a newspaper to
tell about it. By then the old
wreck had acquired a sort of
fame.
It seemed that council affairs
had been fairly quiet that after-
noon, and a couple of aldermen
and ffie engineer had gone down
the beach to look at the Here-
ward. The engineer had a little
gelignite with him.
Nothing decisive was planned
at all. The engineer’s idea was
merely to make a small experi-
ment and see what a given
weight of explosive would
accomplish. If the blast
managed to blow off a small
piece of the wreck, then that
would be all to the good.
The engineer waded out at
low-tide, laid his charge and let
“ And somehow or other he had
ge^h
years of failure. f
h Th ' Td
ufence the celebratorv clinking of
t | ence me ceieoratoiy uuming
Blassware-
.
Thirsty
r rHIS also concerns an
A engineer, but his luck came
one day as he thought very hard
before his bathroom mirror. He
was brushing his hair, and it
was falling out. It was falling
out in small tufts.
This, and the fact that he had
been feeling rather seedy for
about a week, rang some sort of
bell. Bandicoots came into his
mind.
He had bought a bottle of
rat-poison to settle the bandi-
coots that were undermining his
vegy-patch.
The poison was thallium, at
that time as colorless, odorless
and tasteless as water.
Water! . . .
Then he remembered how he
had broken the neck of the little
poison-bottle while he was trying
to open it. He had poured the
poison into an old tumbler.
When he had used the poison
he wanted he had put the rest
safely away. But the tumbler?
... He couldn’t remember what
he had done with that.
And then he recalled the night
he had woken with a thirst and
had gone into the dark kitchen
half-asleep and had groped in
a cupboard for a glass and
drunk a tumbler or two of water.
He left the bathroom and went
to that cupboard —it was not
where he normally kept the
glasses—and there he found the
tumbler where he had put it
back in the dark.
He was at the doctor’s within
minutes, and at the hospital a
little later being treated success-
fully for thallium-poisoning.
That engineer’s luck was that
he had learned from reading the
newspapers that falling hair can
mean more these days than
dandruff.
The Clock
'T'HE police had road-blocks
" all around Bathurst, but the
escapee from the jail had slipped
through.
The authorities were deciding
that it might be a very long time
before they saw him again. Then
out of the mists of a wild Blue
Mountains valley came two
Sydney bush-walkers, Donald
Robbie and Barry Higgins.
Their trek had taken them
along Cedar Creek, in Cedar
Valley, near Mount Solitary.
They had met someone down
there, and when they saw the
posters about the escapee at
Katoomba they called in at the
police-station and were shown
some photographs of the man.
They were able to tell the
police that the escapee was well
and truly lost in Cedar Valley,
and when the police found him
late next day, he was happy
enough to get back into Bathurst.
Down in the valley the two
bushwalkers, used to silence,
had suddenly heard someone
clomping along a track near by.
When they saw him, they
thought he was another bush-
walker, though perhaps a bit
light-on for camping-gear.
He asked them the way to the
nearest railway-station, and they
told him—about one day’s walk
back the way he had come.
He wouldn’t have it. He said
he had heard a train-whistle in
the direction he was going.
They asked him if he would
like to share a meal with them,
but he said he had better get on
his way.
Then he asked them the time.
As he did, he pulled opt of his
haversack a battered alarm-
clock.
They told him the time, and he
started to set the clock. Its
alarm went off like a fire-bell in
the quiet bush.
The stranger dropped it as
he leaped in the air, and then
hurriedly made off down the
track.
It was lucky for him that the
clock went off. If it had not
betrayed the raw state of his
nerves, the two hikers might not
have given him a second thought
when they saw the posters in
Katoomba.
The clock’s ring meant his
recapture. If it had not rung,
he would have undoubtedly
died, lost and starving, in his
search for the mirage of a train-
whistle.
Dogs
THE case of young Charlie
Cluley, 2\, is a version of
something that happens fairly
often. So often, in fact, that it
would seem a good idea to get a
pup if you already have a small
boy with an eye to adventure.
Charlie wanted to explore one
morning while his mother was
busy with the washing. He
slipped out the back gate and
into a paddock that adjoins his
home at Narrabeen. His red-
kelpie pup, just three months
old, went with him.
Charlie came to a waterhole
and started tossing twigs in.
Then he fell in himself.
About 300vds. away a green-
keeper, Ray Doherty, was toiling
at. the R.S.L. Memorial Bowling/
Club. He hearcl the pup barking
frantically, and put it down to a
lizard discovered or a koala in
a tree.
But the pup was so persistent
that Doherty went down to the
waterhole for a closer look. He
found young Charlie floating on
his back with his head under
water.
Charlie’s second bit of luck
was that Ray Doherty was a
lifesaver, and Charlie was soon
in hospital sitting up with a grin
on his face..
A reporter who looked at the
waterhole about an hour later
found a set of footprints that
told their own story. They
formed a clear path a foot wide
and 10yds. long in the soft sand
at the edge of the waterhole. At
its ends the path widened a little
where the pup had swung around
to run back the other way while
making his bid to save his boss.
The Big Wave
THE three men were walking
together on the Monaro
Highway where it peters-out on
a cliff-top at Tathra, near Bega.
It was a wild night. Shipping
was in strife right down the
coast. In Ulladulla, Italian and
Australian fishermen had been
working shoulder -to - shoulder
for nearly 24 hours trying to
save their little craft.
The wind was throwing
pocket-hurricanes around the
State. Roofs were flying and
hoardings toppling in Sydney. A
trawler nearly sank trying to get
an injured man off a freighter
in Twofold Bay. The seas had
tossed him from his bunk and
broken his hip.
On the cliff-top at Tathra the
three men walked, bent against
the wind.
They were Barry Flemming,
of Bega, Eddie Plumb, of Tathra,
and Robert Sirl, of Bega.
It was too windy to ride his
motor-bike, and Sirl was wheel-
ing it.
Only Plumb and Sirl are alive
today.
The facts are still almost urn
believable, for the highway is
150 ft. back from the cliff-edge,
and the cliff rises 100 ft. out of
the sea
Yet, there, as the three men
walked, close together —at that
height, at that distance back
from the cliff-edge—a huge wave
crashed amongst them!
It took Flemming back into
the sea with it. He was seen
for a moment clinging to a rock
near the cliff-edge. Then he was
gone.
It picked up the other two,
and their motor-bike, bowled
them along for 200yds., and
left them shaken on a jetty.
The motor-bike that landed
beside them was just a twisted
bit of metal.
People later found 501 b. stones
from the sea lying on the high-
way and about 40 tons of
gravel from the highway lying
near the jetty.
“Macquarie”: We were set-
ting-out a new job in a cocky’s
paddock —Punchie, Chips and
myself. Chips was just bend-
ing over a peg when—whoosh!
The impact struck him where it
would do most good, and he
made a poor four-point land-
ing. Punchie and I didn’t wait.
From the top of a brick stack we
rocked with cowardly, callous
laughter. The ram surveyed his
work critically for several
seconds, then steadily backed off
fbr the next sortie. Chips sprang
to his feet and dived for a
length of 2 x 1 batten. As the
ram paused before launching his
next attack, Chips, still seeing
red, rushed- up and clouted him
over the scone with the bit of
timber. The ram didn’t even
blink. Chips had done-in
another batten and exhausted
himself, and was on the verge
of losing on a technical k. 0.,
when Punchie’s shouted advice
reached him: “Uppercut him!”
Good seconding won the day.
With the first one under the
chin the woolly-weight champ,
skied the towel and retired to the
farthest-away neutral corner.


[l]
e* 4
o'*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
4 %
M
m
1
WHILE IT
*C\
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
m
■ : i
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That's why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save 1/8
jjSTRAt/,^
i
1
I
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phone: BWIOII, BWIOIZ, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
sm VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chatnnan).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND, N. E. MANION,
Managing Director. Manager.
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST OIL
TN considering current Middle
-*• East problems it has to be
remembered that, if the West is
largely dependent on Arab oil,
the wealth of the Arab States is
also dependent on Western
demand for that oil.
If, for instance, the West
decided to carry its oil other than
through Suez, Colonel Nasser
could have a lot more problems
than he has now ; and if the West
decided it could do without Arab
oil the current affluence of
several Middle East countries
could disappear almost as effec-
tively as the traditional Arabs
and their tents.
The crucial point in such
reasoning, of course, is whether
or not the West could get by
without Middle East oil. One
writer who believes it could—
for a while, at least—is Norman
Crump, financial editor of
London “Sunday Times.”
Crump points out that 1952
world-production of oil, includ-
ing that of the Middle East, was
637-million tons ; and that 1956
production, excluding that of the
Middle East, was 627-million
tons. In other words, if the
world lost the whole of Middle
East production, it would still
have nearly as much oil as it had
in 1952.
“It follows that in the short
run the world would experience
no more than serious inconveni-
ence, aggravated by the marked
increase in consumption since
1952. The long run would be a
different story, because out of
proved oil-reserves of 26,000-
million tons for the whole world
nearly 17,000-million lie in the
Middle East.
“In 1955, out of total ship-
ments of 145-million tons from
the Middle East, 67-million tons
went through the Suez Canal and
40-million through the pipelines,
In the same year United States
consumption was 406-million
tons and British consumption
23-million, making 429-million
for the two countries. If both
countries reduced their consump-
tion by no more than 10 per
cent., this would save two-thirds
of the oil which in 1955 came
through the Suez Canal,
“All these figures lead to the
conclusion that, just as in the
case of Abadan, the world could
get enough oil without the use
°f tbe Suez Canal, and perhaps
even if the pipelines to the
Mediterranean were also cut.
But it would mean a drastic and
costly readjustment of world-
production and distribution.
“In proof of this last point,
in 1955 Western Europe con-
sumed 117-million tons, of which
94-million came through either
the Suez Canal or the pipelines,
The United States was a net
importer of oil, for she consumed
406-million tons and produced
360-million, including 30-million
tons of natural gasolene. The
Caribbean countries, Venezuela
and the West Indies, shipped 54-
million tons to the United States
and Canada ; and also 20-million
to South America and a further
20-million to Western Europe,
“These figures show the
dimensions of the problem that
would arise if Western Europe
suddenly had to buy from the
United States and the Caribbean
the 94-million tons it got in 1955
through the Suez Canal and the
pipelines. The problem can be
divided into three parts—pro-
duction, transport and finance.”
Those three problems, Crump
concludes, could be overcome,
so that “the temporary loss of
all or part of the Middle East
oil would be far from fatal,
The indications are that the
world would be able to cope
Amsterdam "Algemeen Handelsblad ”
NIGHTMARE?
with such an emergency, albeit
at a fairly heavy price.”
Touching on much the same
problems, London “Financial
Times” comments that “we [the
West] have reached the position
in which the economies of our
countries would be gravely
injured by any interference with
that [oil] supply. It is true that
we have the bargaining strength
that we are the only available
customer for so large a quantity
of oil. However, we already
know that it is impossible to
trust Arab nationalism to act in
the economic interests of the
Arab countries.
“The first thing to be done is
to try to reduce this dependence.
There are a number of ways in
which this can be achieved. The
first is to concentrate even more
attention on accelerating the
atomic-energy programme. There
are, of course, limits to the
speed with which that can be
done, but there must be con-
siderable room for the transfer
of scientists and technicians
from defence-projects to power-
projects. Certainly nuclear
power for civil purposes should
now be given much the higher
priority. It is, apart from any-
thing else, the more valuable to
the security of the country.
“The second stage must be to
see that we can as far as possible
maintain oil-supplies in all
circumstances. Of the Middle
Eastern oil countries at present
the two major transit countries,
Syria with pipelines, and Egypt
with the canal, are the two worst
risks. To build another pipe-
line through Syria in order to
reduce our reliance on the
canal would be an act of folly.
It would be arming Burke in
order to protect oneself against
Hare. The most useful course
would be to build enough super-
tankers to be able to carry the
bulk of the oil from the Persian
Gulf round the Cape.
“That would mean new slip-
ways, more tanker-building, and
new dock-facilities. At present
the oil-companies are no doubt
actively planning to create these
new facilities which are needed.
They cannot do so with too
great a sense of urgency. What-
ever the future course of the
negotiations it would be wrong
to regard the Suez Canal in
future as more than one of a
number of possible routes.
Never again should we rely on
Suez too greatly.
“The other oii-Powers of the
Middle East do not, however,
seem as stable as they might be.
Saudi-Arabia is an extremely
backward State, where vast oil-
revenues have been applied to
the purchase of slaves rather than
to the improvement of the con-
dition of the people. Irak has
at present a good and friendly
Government, but no one would
dare predict its future. Only
Kuwait and Persia seem at
present to offer a reasonably
secure prospect. Fortunately,
they provide about half the total
supply of oil, and they could no
doubt increase their production
if other sources of supply failed.
“The need is to make sure that
we are always ready to meet a
major dislocation either of the
oil-supply or of its transport. At
present the whole economy of
Europe is built on an unsure
foundation. There are ways in
which this foundation can be
shored-up. They must be used,
even if they do not at present
offer the cheapest immediate
costs.”
To all of which, London
“New Statesman” adds:
“Long before Egypt nation-
alised the Suez Canal, the
rapacity of Syria and the
Lebanon had forced both I.P.C.
and Aramco to abandon plans to
build additional pipelines.
“Even if the West succeeds in
putting the clock back in Suez,
the companies are most unlikely
to reverse their decision, let alone
put up the capital for a new oil-
canal. The oil-interests, in brief,
are now determined to switch
from fixed transport investments,
exposed as they are to the
indigent whims of Arab despots,
to mobile investments, whose
safety can be guaranteed by
Western naval power; and Mr.
Onassis’s recent decision to build
tankers of 100,000 tons —taken,
it should be noted, before
Nasser’s coup —is a portent of
things to come.
“In the next 30 years, barring
an unlikely reversal of present
political trends in the Middle
East, an ever-increasing propor-
tion of our oil will be trans-
ported by the anachronistic
Cape route. The wastage in
man- and horsepower and in
precious industrial capacity will,
of course, be enormous; and
both the Western consumer and
the Arab States —whose share in
transport revenues will diminish
relatively, if not absolutely—will
suffer in consequence.”
Amateurs and
Amateurs
London “Daily Mail” com-
ment on the “quadrennial com-
parison between the plutocratic
athletics of other nations and the
poverty-stricken effort of our
own [Britain’s]”:
“America is spending nearly
£400,000 on the 1956 Games,
Russia millions of roubles, Japan
£250,000, and so on. Britain has
raised £lOO,OOO. She is the
Cinderella of the cinder-track.
Other Governments lavish State
grants on the Olympics. Ours
does not. The Olympic Com-
mittee have to send the hat
round.
“Foreign athletes have much
better facilities than The British
—apart from methods by which
‘amateurs’ enjoy professional
conditions.
“Take Zatopek and his British
rival, Jim Peters. Zatopek was a
corporal in the Czech Army, but
with each big track-success he
won promotion. Today he is
a colonel. His life is one of
careful training— not for battle
(unless it be the Battle of
Marathon), but for long-distance
running.
“Peters had an ordinary job.
He went to work like the rest of


Spi£&
SB
Mi
'
MORE
USABLE
HORSEPOWER
... at safe, economical engine speeds.
The Wise Truck-Buyer Knows that
rated horsepower figures don’t tell
the whole story of truck perform-
ance. He knows that passenger-car
type truck engines must rev. up to
high speeds to pull their loads. It’s
the usable horsepower that counts
—power available to pull capacity
loads without undue strain.
Power-Curves Show why the new
Australian Black Diamond engines
have helped make these Inter-
national Trucks the middleweight
carrying champions of Australia —
they’re all-truck designed and built
from drain-plug to filler-cap to turn
out full power and torque at com-
paratively low r.p.m. to deliver
more usable horsepower.
INTERNATIONAL AS-130—Low-loading Champion !
◄
The nine-foot long tray body shown has a
loading height of only 37 inches and a
capacity of 30 cwt. Powered by the
ABD-220 Black Diamond engine of 108
B.H.P. —more usable horsepower.
The ABD-240 Australian
Black Diamond engine de-
velops 131 B.H.P. —Maxi-
mum torque is reached at
2,000 r.p.m.—giving more
usable horsepower at moder-
ate engine speed.
INTERNATIONAL AS-148—Medium Duty Model!
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY. f|§ District Sales offices in capital cities.
I INTERNATIONAL |J TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria) FMT-732/3<
DS and trained in his lunch-hour.
He trained again in the evening.
“Well— that’s it. No wonder
Britain has won only three gold-
medals since 1936. One from an
ice-skater. The others from
horses.
“When the Olympic meeting
was true to its ideals the vic-
tories were almost monotonously
British. When athletics became
a serious business the Americans
supplanted us. Now that they
involve national prestige and
oolitical ideology we may find
the Russians bringing home the
bacon.”
Soviet Censorship
Commenting on the “artful
job” done by the Russian
censors who vet news-dispatches
sent out from Moscow, a “U.S.
News and World Report” writer
notes that “they [the censors],
usually manage to cut out
individual words, phrases and
whole sentences in such a way
that the report, in its new form,
reads as smoothly as the
original.”
“For example, here is a
sentence that went through
censorship, showing in paren-
thesis the words removed by the
censor:
“‘An attempt is being made
to breathe (some) life into the
(paper) institutions Stalin created
(but never permitted to func-
tion).’
“As a result, correspondents
who try to write balanced
stories sometimes find that what
arrives at their home offices —
and often gets published . is
something quite different from
what they intended.”
Australian Wheat
The London trade-talks be-
tween the U.K. and Australian
Governments naturally raised
the subject of Australian wheat-
exports to Britain and the ques-
tion of increasing them.
In an editorial. survey of the
subject, London “Financial
Times” noted that “the recent
decline in export-earnings from
wheat has been an important
contributory factor in the
balance -of - payments problem
with which Australia has to
cope”:
“On the other hand it would
be wrong to attribute too much
to this as an explanation of
Australia’s difficulties, and cer-
tainly it would be a distortion
to see the problem of Australian
wheat as one primarily caused
by smaller British consumption.
“In the immediate five pre-
war years Australian wheat-
exports accounted for 102.5-
million bushels. During the war
this figure was halved, but
immediately afterwards, in 1947-
1948, it rose to 131.1-million
bushels. Not until 1951-52 was
there a setback, when the figure
fell to 81 million. It recovered
to 102-million bushels the next
season, but by 1953-54 it had
dropped further to 68.3 million.
“Three points may be made in
comment on this decline:
“First, the fall in Australian
wheat-exports took place in a
few recent years only and, in
fact, there has been a substantial
improvement since the 1953-54
season, which was the nadir of
What your skin
does for you
How does a cut finger so mys-
teriously heal itself? What
causes excessively oily or dry
skin? Why do we turn pale with
fear or anger? Why is it dan-
gerous to remove a scab? In
September Reader’s Digest read
facts about nature’s miracle —
your skin.
“The girl who became Marilyn
Monroe”, another September
feature, brings you the life
story of the scared, unwanted
child who became a modern
Aphrodite.
Then there’s “Why we succeed
or fail”; “Match your wits with
Oxford students”; “What your
skin does for you”; “The demi-
god that waS Stalin”. Thirty-
three articles of lasting interest
in September issue, only 2/-, all
newsagents and bookstalls.
wheat-exports from Australia in
the post-war period. In the
1-954-55 season there was roughly
a 50 per cent, improvement in
total Australian wheat-exports,
and the higher level is expected
to be at least maintained this
year.
“Secondly, of course, the fall
which has taken place in the
last few years, as importers, as
well as net exporters, were
reaping the results of stimulated
grain-output, has by no means
been the result primarily of a
change in British buying-habits.
Purchases by India and other
major buyers fell just as steeply
after 1951.
“Finally, the problem which
Australia has to face is primarily
one of competing with other
producers of soft wheat, includ-
ing France, which have emerged
as major exporters, and of the
efforts of consumers such as the
U.K. to "diminish their reliance
on overseas sources.
“The U.K. milling-industry
has for long been based on an
absorption of between 51 and
56 per cent, hard Canadian
wheat. The balance, after an
undertaking to absorb a given
quantity of home-grown wheat
is allowed for, is for open com-
petition among other producers
of soft wheat, of which Australia
is one.
“At the moment, as a result
of smaller European harvests,
Australia has greatly improved
her position. Australian wheat
is now selling better than for
several years, and it is clear that
next year’s carryover will be
reduced. In fact, Nature has
already done much to rectify a
pattern of which
had gone against Australia in
the last few years, though, of
course, while the world is as
overstocked with grain as it is
at the moment it is difficult to
see that Australia can look for-
ward to any major price-
recovery in this staple export.”
Japan and China
Commenting on the fact that
trade-restrictions in Western
countries and in South-east
Asia ha,ve caused the Japanese
to “tend to look back with
increasing nostalgia to the good
old days of the lucrative China
trade,” London “Economist’s”
Tokyo correspondent notes that
“these thoughts have been
crystallised in an important
signed article in the ‘Oriental
Economist,’ by Japan’s energetic
Minister of International Trade,
Mr. Tanzan Ishibashi”:
“After stoutly contending that
Japan’s pre-war investments in
China, though regrettably tinged
by imperialism, were, neverthe-
less, ‘by no means unprofitable
to China and her masses,’ Mr.
Ishibashi takes the bull by the
horns and declares:
“ ‘The Japanese Government
is about to take the initiative for
the early conclusion of a trade-
agreement with Peking. [lf the
West does not like this, inter-
prets the “Economist,” the West
itself is to blame.]
“ ‘Japan has been endeavor-
ing to tighten economic rela-
tions with South-east Asian
regions other than Communist
China, with Central and South
America and with the Middle
and Near East, so that they may
develop into dependable
suppliers of raw materials to
Japan and promising markets
for Japanese exports. The result
so far, however, has not been
satisfactory enough to induce
the Japanese to give up Com-
munist China.
“ ‘Worse still, despite Japan’s
accession to Gatt, more Western
European countries are
apparently trying to discrimin-
ate against Japanese goods. Boy-
cotts against Japanese articles
have also become somewhat
rampant even in the United
States. [These developments]
have driven the Japanese Gov-
ernment into a very embarrassing
position.’
“In this art i c 1 e,” the
“Economist” writer continues,
“Mr. -Ishibashi merely dots the
i’s and crosses the t’s of an
argument that more and more
Japanese businessmen are com-
ing to accept. They see other
nations relaxing restrictions on
trade with China, and have no
intention of being left out of
the race for the market which
Japan itself once almost suc-
ceeded in dominating.
“At present the United States
buys £l6O - million - worth of
Japanese goods compared with
China’s figure of a little' over
£ 10-million. The large Japanese
firms certainly do not wish to
imperil their trade with the
United States for the sake of a
bird in the Chinese bush, how-
ever potentially plump. But,
even if the West’s strategic
restrictions cannot be removed
—and Mr. Ishibashi affirms that
the Japanese Government is
‘working hard’ for their removal
or alleviation —they can prob-
ably be got round somehow; a
firm already doing business with
the United States might also
trade with China through a
nominally independent sub-
sidiary without too much risk.
“Even with the existing restric-
tions on trade with Communist
China, Japan’s adverse balance
with that country has this year,
for the first time, been slowly
changing into a favorable one
(and thus comparing sadly with
the balances with other areas,
which seem to be worsening).
With the restrictions removed
or got round, the Japanese be-
lieve they could sell to China
large quantities of ships, railway-
equipment, electrical-equipment
and structural steel.
“From China, Japan would
hope to receive iron and
coal, at much lower prices than
it now has to pay for American
coal and iron, because of the
freight - charges. To make
Chinese mouths water, Japan
already plans to exhibit
‘restricted’ items at the Japanese
trade-fairs to be held in Peking
and Shanghai next October and
December.
“In short,” the “Economist”
writer concludes, “it is primarily
their feeling of being the
‘orphans of Asia’ that is at
present impelling the Japanese
towards China. This despairing
feeling is heightened, not
diminished, by Japan’s dismal
knowledge that China, and
Russia, are more likely to turn
out to be nutcrackers rather
than friends. Japan is not, at
this stage, simply trying to
blackmail the West into offering
it better economic terms. It is
trying to say that the tempta-
tion of even an illusory escape
from its present economic
squeeze may prove irresistible if
no one else is prepared to give
it room to breathe.”


NOW— 2 Mobilco Junior Models
with 5.2 bp. Mobitco Engine
Z IOWBST-PR.CED GEAR DR.VEN^N<f
Mobilco Junior 7
7 b.h.p. 4-slroke Engine
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis.
F.O.R. Melbourne, Blade Extra.
m
m
m
m
You get "the lot"-LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS'
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
■fa In-built gear reduction
fa Finger-tip control fa Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle fa Drives up to 36" blade
■fa Spindle mounted on ball
bearings -fa Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground 'fa 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4V2 hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name
Address
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONE: YX 1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - AGENTS: LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
nothing except the burning-
down of kerosene-lamps and the
compline of blowflies.
He continued reciting yes,
that is the word—reciting in-
exorably as though through the
verse-alphabet that trips from
“Archer” to “Zany,” “A good
pub bigger than this . . . better
than this hole, man . . . contem-
porary, you know . . . designed
by a leading Sydney bloke . . .
everything, everything, man . . .
fifty bedrooms ...”
His rich and haunted gaze
made me feel transparent as
perspex ; his sleep-walking voice
inscribed around his lies broken
rings that did not quite join to
validity. His hands soaked with
timber-dye no longer made
succinct or even apposite
comment for him ; they sketched
vague and dissymmetrical
figures; his eyes no longer
rhymed—“ Lovely, love-ly walls
. . . modern colors . . .”
He seemed to try to indicate
the interior of the harlequin-box
in which we all thus exercised
towards death. He faltered,
drank, emerged from his
revitalising spa, more plangently
continued:
“One bad trouble though,
man . . . one bad, bad trouble
.. . those black men. They upset
my old man ; for sure they upset
him . . . those blackies hanging
about . . . they stink, man, those
blackies ... my dad kicks ’em
out; they make him sick . . .
‘Gimme drink, man,’ they say;
‘Gimme little cigarette, boss’...”
Now he foundered in dreams
again, maybe in some remote
and confusing distress; he
finished his drink; his control
for an instant vanished or he
allowed it to vanish ; the glass
slid from his fingers and smashed
on the floor.
At the same second the
singers came to the end of
“Sleepy Time Gal,” turned their
lax and shallow stares on him,
miraculously focused as snakes
do and remembered him with
joy. Loyally they cried* out
“Everleigh , . . Ev-er-leigh, you
old so-and-so . . . don’t worry
about that glass . . . buy him a
grog • • • sing ‘The Blue Bird of
Happiness’ . . . buy him another
drink, Mac . . .”
This hubbub of adulation was
petrol on his sinking fire; he
flared, flamed ; his smile excelled
itself as a more charming dogma
will; he did not look at me when
moved to join them but tossed
an “Au ’voir, m’sieu ! My poob-
lique she call me.”
I was further than ever from
the heart of the matter.
HTHE cook, who must once
have been pretty in the
manner of actresses on the silent
films, the May McAvoy type,
appeared at my elbow.
Years and red-hot kitchen-
ranges had dried her juices so
that she somehow recalled a
praying-mantis. To her lower
lip a perpetual cigarette was
seccotined by lipstick; she
squinted at me through the
smoke that flowed up her face
into her goffered hair: “Now,
did you have any dinner, Mr..
P.? No? You poor man. Now,
I’m going out to soak the oat-
meal for breakfast and have a
cup of tea. Now, would you
like an omelette?”
I became, immediately,
Edwardian, charming and
sonorous. The cook was fond
of me: I was what she had come
to imagine A Gentleman to be.
Hers was a finicking accent,
South Australian, a little menial
and worn —digested anguish
faintly impregnated it: she was
the naice suburban housewife
tricked in a breath to widow and
Cook, disorientated by a germ
no bigger than a pinprick. While
she cooked the omelette above
which the long ash of her
cigarette quivered like the sword
of Damocles I sat in the kitchen
and listened to Everleigh’s voice
distantly exhorting.
9
... .be like 1,
Hold your head up high,
Till you find the blue-bird of
happiness.
Purified by space this sounded
poignant; it was midnight—the
song somehow fitted midnight
and him, I thought. But I did
not know why. Later, spoon-
ing up some rubbery jelly in
which slices of not-ripe-enough
banana lay like Alka-seltzer
tablets, I became aware of
relative silence; next of the
graver silence of the moon, the
river, the burdock-lined back-
streets, the day’s run-down
dynamo, a divine and dewy surf
of silence washing out the noise
of drunken laughter and
slammed car-doors.
The night in the multicolored
box was over.
I thanked Cook with the
aplomb of a Foreign Minister
and left her with her face partly
shrouded in a gossamer of
cigarette-smoke through which
she peered like a Chinese sage.
I groped to the*’foot of the
stairs leading to the bedrooms.
A SKYLIGHT was above the
stair-well; someone sat
moonlit and head-bowed on the
bottom step. It was Everleigh.
He was deplorably drunk, but,
more than that, as he balanced
to his feet with the flexions of
some creature semi-broken but
still graceful, he seemed utterly
exhausted as though he had
labored desperately for a
demoniacal master who was him-
self on a nameless field in a
climate no mortal could bear.
Urgency was still his, but it was
a different urgency; not dedi-
cated and self-possessed, but
circuitous, feckless and timid.
Vivacity and mobility having
drained from his face, the moon’s
archaic light magnified contours
I should have noticed before,
revealed in shadow what I could
have recalled under fluorescents:
the secret of his accent. I do
not like people, but can well
enough act the Intelligent Good-
mixer . . . you remember that?
But I could not act so well as
Everleigh. His brilliant toil had
concealed everything in light
until that moment when I was
forced not to ignore his out-
stretched hand in the hell of
whose stained palm lay not only
the ghastly town with its shat-
tered verandas and the fly-
besequined eye-sockets of his
part-blood parents but the Main-
street garden-debauchees, the
reeking ones, the outskirt-walkers
skinny as their mongrels, the soft-
eyed beggars whose lilting and
smoky accent Everleigh was
using at the foot of the moonlit
stairs; for it was his by custom,
practice and heredity :
“Drink, man . . . drink . . .
gimme . . . gimme little cigarette,
boss.”
stealing these bombs to kill
fish? I already know their narhes,
but I want to find out if you are
a truthful old man.”
Anxious to prove that he was
indeed a truthful man, Kietan
gave the names without further
difficulty. Ulilio went to sleep
that night with only one problem
on his mind: how to get the
gaily-dressed anthropologist back
to headquarters as soon as
possible, so that he could make
his report to the kiap.
As from the next morning
all the hitherto fruitful sources
of information mysteriously ran
dry. This ruse, however, failed
to move Dr. Hoffmill. He said
plainly that he had come out
equipped and prepared to spend
a month or more in the Wasam
area and while this sudden
dearth of information was dis-
appointing, he had read of such
things and was quite willing to
sit and wait.
With his momentous news and
the names of the guilty men con-
tinually revolving in his mind,
Ulilio fretted away two anxious
days.
On the third morning he
decided that he could afford to
wait no longer, and that drastic
action must be taken. At first
to the delight of Dr. Hoffmill,
a whole new team of informants
made their appearance. They
were full of new and interesting
facts about the tabus and totems
of this simple and primitive
people. Before the morning was
over, the contents of a box of
tobacco had disappeared, and
so, to the doctor’s intense
chagrin, had the Hoffmill-theory.
He just couldn’t understand it.
These incredible people didn’t
seem to observe any recognised
pattern of behavior. After
wrestling with his notes that
evening, and a further day of
frustration, Dr. Hoffmill reluct-
antly decided that this area had
been sufficiently worked-over
and that he had better go back
to headquarters and seek
Sullivan’s advice as to fresh
ground for testing his theories —-
some place where the lives of
the inhabitants followed less hap-
hazard behavior-patterns than
the Wasam.
Two days later, a rather
chastened anthropologist nursed
his blisters into headquarters.
Ulilio, still in attendance, almost
swaggered, while Oroman
followed him like a shadow.
'T'HE Wasam carriers having
been paid off and the wind-
ing-up of the expedition attended
to, Ulilio stuffed a fistful of
tobacco out of sight behind his
broad white belt and turned to
Oroman.
“I am now going to report to
the kiap,” he said. “I will see
you later.”
“Oh no, brother! ” Oroman
exclaimed. “I will come with
you, for I fear you will forget
some part of the work I have
done.”
“As you wish,” said Ulilio
loftily, heading for the office,
“but just a tip. If you want to
be a policeman stand straight and
silent and listen while I tell the
story to the kiap.”
Sullivan’s reception of his
report on the discovery of the
Japanese bombs, the solution of
the Wasam problem and the
names of the chief culprits even
surprised Ulilio. It was a
Sensation.
“Very well done, Ulilio,” said
the Number One. “This is a
good piece of work, and I think
you need not worry about that
third stripe that we have dis-
cussed before.”
Oroman stirred restlessly.
“There is just one more thing,
sir,” added Ulilio. “This young
man, Oroman, has been quite a
help to me while I was finding
out all these things. He tells me
that he wants to be a policeman,
and it is my thought that it
would be no bad thing to try
him.”
Sullivan studied Oroman from
head to foot. He saw a young
native with an unusual keenness
and alertness of eye, powerfully
built and tall enough to satisfy
the requirements of the con-
stabulary. “All right, Ulilio,” he
nodded, “I’ll send him to the
training-depot and we shall see.”
The direct stare and the possi-
bility of achieving his ambition
effectively blocked the protest
which was trembling on Oro-
man’s lips. He stammered his
thanks and left the office with
Ulilio.
That evening, Dr. Hoffmill
outlined the disappointing course
his' investigations had taken,
with the evidence of the last few
days completely contradicting
the statements carefully noted
during the first three days. From
a few apparently casual inquiries,
helped, of course, by the com-
pleteness of Ulilio’s report,
Sullivan suspected that the
“simple and primitive” native
had used this clever scholar for
his own ends.
Suspicion became a certainty
when Dr. Hoffmill broached the
question of borrowing some
more tobacco, to be refunded by
the Foundation which sponsored
his researches, so he could
examine another area. .
“Good God! ” gasped Sullivan.
“What happened to all that
tobacco you took with you?”
“I used most of it,” said Hoff-
mill calmly. “It didn’t amount
to more than a few dollars. I
realise you cafl’t get scientific
facts for nothing. Would you
recommend another area for
study? Would it be too much
to ask for the services of Ulilio
again as interpreter? That man
is worth his weight in salt.”
Sullivan hoped his smile
would be taken as appreciating
the American’s apt use of a local
metaphor. He leaned back in
his chair, out of the direct light
cast by the incandescent lamp.
“Well, Doctor," he replied
from the vantage of the
shadow, “I think the Gasmata
area would repay examination.
The people there are com-
paratively unspoilt.”
Dr. Hoffmill’s earlier remark
about the “simple and primitive
people” had stuck in his mind.
If Dr. Hoffmill hadn’t been so
sure of himself and his theories
Sullivan might have hinted that
the people of New Guinea may
be just as subtle as other human-
beings. But he couldn’t do that
without letting Ulilio down.
“I think I will give you Con-
stable Semangen, who comes
from those parts, as your inter-
preter. Ulilio can hardly be
spared for another period away
from the station.”


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
A Modem Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
pa
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed. •
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAU IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
• DISTRIBUTORS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
Faith in the
Future
I m !
\
I’ve seen them coming down the stock routes
of the Centre, the men who bring the cattle across
a continent; moving in and past and out of the
vision, part of a vaster picture spreading to the
south and east.
To spelling and fattening pastures, to the
railheads, to the markets, they make on with the
beasts in steady numbers.
It is good to watch the drovers and stockmen
of the inland, skilled and supple in their work . . .
Curled hat shading a face that is creased to the sun
. . Whip slung across one arm as the other holds
the reins . . . The sure-footed horse, the dog that
is thinking ahead of its master . . . The dust of the
road as they gci along their measured stages to
camp and watering-place.
This is Australia—living, breathing and
moving.
The season has been good, the numbers on
the road are high. In the Northern Territory
alone this year more than 180,000 cattle are being
turned off to market.
Time has brought its changes. For many of
the drovers much of the former roughness has
been smoothed; supplies and equipment in motor
trucks can be sent ahead in preparation of the
camp to which they will come at nightfall.
Road trains are being used in some districts,
to cover in one day perhaps ten times the distance
that would have been covered on the hoof.
No doubt we will witness still greater changes.
I can foresee the time when the air-freighting of
beef slaughtered in the interior will be common
in the scheme of efficient production.
But one thing that will not change is the spirit
of the men who tend the stock and take them on
their way. For the human factor enters into all
the advances being made around us. And I know
of no Australian breed more human and
indispensable than the outback stockman.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Early Sydney directories and
almanacs.—63BB.
Copies of the following: Der
iuenfte Welttheil, oder Austrahen
iWeimar, 1814), by L. Lindner;
Saturdee (1933), by Norman Lindsay ;
Low’s Directory of the City and
Districts of Sydney for 1847; J.
Lycett’s Views in Australia (1824, fol.
obi.) and Views in Australia (1825,
4to. obi.); Journal of an exploring
expedition from Port Denison, Quens-
land, to the Gulf of Carpentaria and
back (Brisbane, 1865), by D. J. G.
Macdonald. —6389.
Copy of C. J. Dennis’s The Senti-
mental Bloke. —6390.
Information on the whereabouts of
Thomas Oswald (present age, about
50), who left Horden, Durham City,
England, 25 years ago to make good
in Australia. Write direct to his
cousin, Mr. T. Hind, 17 Aged Miners’
Homes, Sherburn Hill, Durham City,
England.
Information Sought
(1) How was the revival of the
Olympic Games brought about, and
where were the first modern Games
held ? (2) What is the significance of
the five rings in the Olympic flag and
symbol ? ’
(1) The revival of the Olympic
Games was a product of the energy
and persistence of the Frenchman
Baron Pierre de Coubertin .(1863-
1937). On Jan. 15, 1894, Coubertin
addressed a circular to governing
bodies of sport in which he pointed
out the educational value of sport
to modern peoples, if practised in
accordance with the ancient Greek
ideals. Then, with the support of C.
Herbert, of the English Amateur
Athletic Association, and W. M.
Sloane, of the American Amateur
Athletic Union, Coubertin initiated an
international congress at which
France, Great •*, Britain, U.S.A.,
Sweden, Italy, Spain, Greece, Russia
and Belgium were represented. The
congress met at the Sorbonne in June,
1894, and the International Olympic
Games Committee was appointed,
with Baron de Coubertin as president
(a position he held for many years).
T, .1 A A f hplrf
I<: was | ; n v.,nfws narts of
eveiy foui m ■
the world to be chosen by the 04ymp
Committee. fbe brst
Olympiad was htdd ia PA Lde P s !u n five
(2) The five lings .“I®, •
continents of: the world lnteri ked *
the spmtofOiyrnpic jnendship. they
were decided on by the lnternatio a
Olympic Committee m 1914, on in
proposal ot Baron de; Coubeitn.
Since World Wai 1 upset the 1916
Games pioposed for Berlin, the lings
did not appear until the Antwerp
Games of 1920. The Olympic flag
used at Antwerp is still the regulation
model—a white background; no
border; jn the celltre five inter-
laced rin gs, blue, yellow, black, green,
red; the blue ring on the high left
neare st the flagpole. Originally, the
colors repre sented the continents:
blue for Europe, yellow for Asia,
black for Africa, green for Australia
a nd red for the Americas. An Inter-
national Olympic Committee amend-
ment published in January, 1951,
altered this. An extract reads:
“According to the documents in the
possession of the Chancellory, no
definite proof can be found that this
allocation of colors was Pierre de
Coubertin’s original idea. At. the
very most he might have admitted
it a f te rwards. To put an end to all
controversy on this point, the
Executive Committee of the 1.0. C.
has decided to cancel this paragraph
and not allocate any colors to the
var j o us continents. The Executive
Committee begs all National Olympic
Committees ’to take notice of this.
* * * *
information on the bushranger
Captain Melville ?
The following facts are fiom Jack
Bradshaw’s True History of the Aus-
tralian Bushrangers: Son of well-
educated Scottish parents, born Prank
McCullum in 1821 he was transported
to Van Diemen s Land in 1846 tor
stealing a turnip Soon after his
arrival he escaped, but was quickly
recaptured, and sentenced to life-
imprisonment, the hrst three years to
be in irons. After completing five
years, he was assigned as a servant,
but absconded and stowed away to
Melbourne. Operating round Ballarat
and Geelong, he brought off many
daring robberies, and once held-up a
station singlehanded and robbed the
20 shearers working there. Witty,
a “gentleman” bushranger, calling
himself “Captain Melville,” it was
said he often made those he was
robbing laugh. He once bailed-up
a station owned by one McKinnon
and, after a convivial evening,
managed to elude four or five troopers
who had been warned of his presence.
It was at McKinnon’s on a later visit
that he was recaptured when he
slipped and sprained an ankle, and
was helpless when the troopers arrived.
This time he was imprisoned on the
Success, and was put in a stone-
breaking gang. In 1858 he and 50
others, overpowering the warders,
tried to escape in a small boat in
which they were returning to the
Success; but the plot failed, and
severe punishment was meted out.
Soon afterwards Melville strangled
himself in his cell.
* * * *
Brief particulars of explorer William
Landsborough, mentioned on the Ser-
vice page in connection with
Camooweal ( Q.)?
Born in Ayrshire (Scotland), son of
a physician, he came to N.S.W. as a
young man and settled first in New
England before moving to Queens-
land. In 1856 he began to undertake
some private exploration without
Government aid; in the next few
years he discovered Mt. Nebo and
Fort Cooper, followed the Comet to
its head, explored Peak Downs and
Nagoa, and discovered the Thomson.
In 1861 he was engaged by the Royal
Society of Victoria to head an expedi-
tion in search of Burke and Wills. On
Aug. 14, 1861, in the Firefly, he left
Brisbane, and on Feb. 10, 1862, after
several false starts, left his depot at
the mouth of the Albert River, on the,
Gulf of Carpentaria, for a journey
which finished in Melbourne. (He
was, of course, powerless to save
Burke and Wills, who were already
dead.) On this trip he did useful work,
discovering and naming the Gregory
and the Herbert (later renamed the
Georgina) and finding rich pastoral
land along the Flinders. He named
Fort Bowen, Mt. Brown and Mt.
Little, hills visible from the Flinders,
then struck south and, after enduring
a long period of semi-starvation,
reached a station on the Warrego,
where he learnt the fate of those he
had been seeking. Later in life he was
for a time a member of Queensland
Parliament and was Government
Resident at Burketown. On a further
exploration he traced the Diamantina
to its source. He died in 1886.
* * * *
Who was the last King of France ?
Louis-Philippe, Duke of Orleans
(1773-1850), who reigned 1830-48.
After the defeat of Napoleon (1815)
the Bourbons were restored to the
throne, in the person of Louis XVIII,
brother of Louis XVI, who was mur-
dered during the French Revolution.
Louis XVIH died in 1824, and was
succeeded by another brother, Charles
X. Charles, bent on restoring auto-
cratic rule, suspended the Constitution
in 1830 and announced that he would
govern by decree; but the French
revolted and Charles was forced to
flee. Louis-Philippe, of a younger
branch of the Bourbons, was pro-
claimed King, ruling for a time as a
moderate, Constitutional monarch.
Gradually his rule, like Charles X’s,
became more dynastic and despotic,
and he became more and more
unpopular; in February, 1848, Paris
rose against him, and, lacking support,
he fled to England. A republic was
established, with Prince Louis
Napoleon, nephew of Napoleon, as
President; and France has remained
a republic ever since. (Except, that
is, for two periods: 1852-70, when,
having proclaimed himself Emperor,
Louis Napoleon ruled as Napoleon
III; and 1940-44, when Marshal
P6tain ruled dictatorially from Vichy
under Hitler’s suzerainty.)
Brief Answers
P.F.: Ernestine Hill’s My Love
Must Wait was reviewed in The
Bulletin of January 7, 1942, and
Margaret Trist’s Now That Were
Laughing in the issue of April 25,
1945 ...N.McL.: There was a long
article on M. Barnard Eldershaw
(Marjorie Barnard and Flora Elder-
shaw), by Frank Dalby Davison, in
The Bulletin of March 24, 1937.
J.H.: There are two booklets
covering the subject, one printed in
Melbourne by the Federal council and
one brought out by the N.S.W. branch
in Sydney; both are good. They
would be available from the office of
the South Australian branch of the
Corriedale Association. Suggest you
write The Secretary, Australian
Corriedale Association, c/o Royal
Agricultural Society, Eagle Chambers,
7 Pirie-street, Adelaide... .5.8.: The
present Sydney Town Hall, seating
3300 people and a choir, was opened
on November 27, 1889. The first
soloist to raise his voice in it (three
days later) was Charles Santley; and
W. T. Best, from St. George’s Hall,
Liverpool, began a series of recitals
upon an organ which was then the
largest in the world... .W.H.E.:
Donations towards the Chair of Aus-
tralian Literature Fund (University of
Sydney) should be sent to the Honor-
ary Secretary, Dr. Colin Roderick, 88
Abbotsford - road, Homebush
(N.S.W.) Mackay: Clean the rusty
patches with sandpaper or similar
abradant, paint them with aluminium
paint, and then give two or three
coats of a good hard bath-enamel
(obtainable from any hardware-store;
directions on the tin should be
followed). When thoroughly dry, use
the bath carefully, by always running
in some cold water first, so that very
hot water does not attack the paint.
This kind of repair makes only a fair
job, as no applied paint is so hard and
resistant to heat and acids as the
original fired-on enamel J.T.C.:
(1) Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will pub-
lish R. S. Porteous’s serial “Brigalow”
in book-form early next year.
(2) Becket - Thomson advertis -
ing, 34 Queen’s-road, Melbourne, will
give you details of the “Homeland
Series by the House of Seppelt”....
E.J.L.: “B'iblionews,” the official
journal of the Book Collectors’
Society of Australia, is published
monthly and is obtainable from the
editor, Walter Stone, 64 Young-street,
Cremorne (N.5.W.)... .J.8.J.: Write
Stephen Murray-Smith, Editor, “Over-
land,” Box 98a, G.P.0., Melbourne.
F.C.: (1) Write The Secretary,
Commonwealth Literature Fund,
Prime Minister’s Department, Can-
berra, A.C.T. (2) Write The Director,
National Art Gallery of Victoria, Mel-
bourne, C.l. (3) The signs in nature
which were popularly used in the past
are being discarded by weather-fore-
casters, now that numerous new
observations, including pressure,
temperature, wind and humidity to
high levels are becoming available,
together with much improved scientific
knowledge of the working of the
atmosphere. Some of the old signs
were useful, but the new science of
interpretation is not known. Phen-
ology is the science of the relations
between climate and periodic bio-
logical phenomena, as the migrations
and breeding of birds, the fruiting of
plants, etc.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.R.: Nollie Goldsmith said it first
—and in verse J.R.: Lady, you axe
too far away... .C.McG.: When you
calm down, we’d like to see some
more —preferably printable.... A.C.:
“Night’s mantle” too reminiscent of
the second-hand clothes-shop....
L T.: Six foolscap pages, all one para-
graph; it left us breathless M.C.:,
(a) Terribly dramatic; (b) awfully funny.
...8.5.: Gracious! K.G.W.:
No fairies by request.. ..F.R.F.: No
swagmen or hatters... .G.C.G. : Not
one of ours J.D.: Well, it had
a certain airy manner D.R.R.:
Why is it not particularly interesting
when middle-aged boy meets middle-
aged girl? B.: The other part of
satire is making the reader laugh....
G. : It just pours out like after-
noon-tea... .8.M.: Vague where it
should be sharp M.B.M: Its an
old lurk T.F.F.: “John’s face lit
up”—anyways, he’ll make a good
match... .J.P.: Stilted... .P.J.: We
devote little space to space-travel....
H. : Don’t like writings about
writers... .M.G.E.: He’s an old Aunt-
Sally M.M.: Well, begin by not
trying to write like a man.


The marking of
wether lambs by Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
not only protects them
against fly-strike and
set-back but also con-
ditions them for
better crutching and
shearing. With the
absence of the purse
shearers are able to
do a more.satisfactory
job.
CLEAR 5 ACRES AN HOUR
smm
Patent No. 156596
VO YOU*
REAP B/6 PROf/TS
Qttl4/Al£o
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/-AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.X.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
• Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season!.... increase yonr land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
i. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS—S. A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIO.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wiginores Ltd.,
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
LAMBING LOSSES
A REPORT on lambing losses
in Queensland by G. R.
Moule, director of sheep-
husbandry, and two other depart-
mental sheep-specialists, M. N. S.
Jackson and R. B. Young, goes
pretty thoroughly into causes
and effects, and many of the con-
clusions apply beyond the State
borders.
A lot of lambs are, of course,
lost every year in Queensland
and, in fact, in every Australian
State. Losses are heavier during
dry years, but even in good years
there are still substantial losses.
Recent work shows that about
one-third of all lambs born in
Queensland die before reaching
marking-age.
During the last three years,
20-million Merino ewes were
* mated in Queensland. Ten-and-
a-half-million lambs have been
marked an average of 3£-
million lambs died before mark-
ing. If, say, half of these had
been saved, it would have made
a big difference in the wool-clip.
Losses of both ewe and lamb
at lambing-time are serious—
since there is a double loss—
and are more readily noticed.
Few woolgrowers know how
many lambs they lose between
birth and marking.
In a recent survey, a number
of owners were asked to give
their opinion of the extent and
cause of these losses. Most of
them considered that their losses
varied, in an average year,
between 5 per cent, and 12 per
cent, of the lambs born. One
man was able to quote reliable
figures, which indicated that the
loss of his stud-lambs before
marking had averaged 12| per
cent, a year ; he agreed that they
were somewhat higher.
Many men gave disastrous
figures, for particular periods:
during a drought, for instance,
or when lambing took place
during very hot weather. Some-
times losses were caused by
dingoes attacking the lambing
ewes. In one stud-flock only
eight lambs, from 200 known to
have been born, survived to
marking-time. On another occa-
sion 600 lambs from a flock of
about 800 perished on a water-
hole during a heat-wave. Such
losses are spectacular, and
serious. But the smaller, con-
stant losses, year after year,
are the important ones in terms
of national and individual
income.
Intensive studies, beginning as
far back as 1948, have shown
that, given reasonable seasons
and good management, com-
paratively few lambs will die
at lambing.
One cause of trouble at lamb-
ing may be that the ewe is too
fat: this is more likely with
crossbred ewes on fat-lamb
country than with Merinos in the
drier areas, where the trouble
may be that the ewes are too
poor. But both extremes can
.cause deaths.
The most usual trouble at
lambing is when the lamb’s legs,
or leg, or head, is turned back.
This is often hard to pick in a
big flock, but with smaller flocks
it is possible to keep an eye on
them. A bit of timely assistance
makes a safe delivery. There’s
a whole literature of obstetrical
lore, of course, which tells an
owner what to do on all occa-
sions. But a working-knowledge
of what ‘to do in the more
common cases isn’t hard to
acquire.
Pregnancy-toxaemia is fairly
common among breeding ewes in
Queensland. It can be serious,
as it’s difficult to treat affected
sheep. It usually occurs when
ewes in advanced pregnancy
are starved —as can happen when
they are shifted by rail, or when
light falls of rain followed by
cold weather destroy pasture, or
when unusual rain floods it.
Pregnancy-toxaemiai may reach
“outbreak” proportions in a
flock, and it usually occurs
among ewes that have not
lambed. Affected sheep stand
around in a listless way, appear
to be blind, are disinclined to
feed, and may grind their teeth.
The course of the disease is pro-
tracted and sick ewes may linger
for seven or eight days before
dying. Sometimes the ewes
abort.
Preventive measures obviously
include careful management of
pregnant ewes and, where neces-
sary, supplementary feeding.
Milk-fever ( hypocalcemia) is
another cause of losses; and, in
some ways, the history and
symptoms of milk-fever are
similar to those of pregnancy-
toxaemia. The trouble is caused
by a sudden decrease of lime in
the blood, and the cure is to
make-up the deficiency by in-
jecting calcium - borogluconate.
Since it is nutritional, prevention,
at first glance, seems a simple
matter of management.
But Dr. G. L. McClymont,
the N.S.W. authority, has
pointed out that there are a
number of contributing factors:
a change of feed, such as lush
grazing after rain, or when a
mob of sheep are turned out
empty from a train on to green
feed, or when sheep are turned
on to young cereal crops
such as wheat or oats. Trouble
may occur from a few days to
a week or more afterwards.
Severe outbreaks have occurred
on winter grass after drought-
breaking rains, and other out-
breaks have occurred on very
good improved-pasture.
Again, a sudden check in
feeding, such as is caused by
shearing, road- or train-journeys,
bad weather and severe cold,
especially if sheep are driven
after the check. Another cause
may be turning hungry sheep
into paddocks containing an
abundance of plants rich in
oxalates, which have the effect
of decreasing the calcium-
content of the blood.
Common plants with a high
content of oxalates are sorrel,
pigweed, parakeelya, roly-poly
and New Zealand spinach.
When stock are used to
grazing in paddocks which
have these plants there usually
isn’t any trouble: but, even
then, rain may cause a
sudden growth of the plants, and
ewes may go down with milk-
fever.
Going further into the nutri-
tional side, McClymont says
that “feeding heavily on cal-
cium-low cereal products such
as oaten or wheaten chaff or
hay, maize, oats, wheat and
barley grain, for some time,
without any other feeds such as
pasture, scrub, burrs, lucerne-
hay or lucerne grazing, which
are all high in calcium” may
cause trouble after only a few
weeks with ewes in advanced
pregnancy, or milking ewes;
although other sheep may get
along on such tucker for some
months before the calcium in
their blood is lowered.
However, actual cases of the
“ Whacko , Bill! Another jumbuck for the old tuckerbag .”
disease will probably not appear
until sheep are driven, or one
of the other factors mentioned
comes into operation. “Driving,
even short distances, such as
from the paddock to the
shearing-shed, may precipitate
cases of the disease. It is often
noticed that under conditions
favorable to the appearance of
the disease, such as where sheep
have been turned on to green
oat-crops or fed heavily on
cereal products for a long time,
no trouble is experienced until
the sheep are driven, when cases
may occur within a short time.”
Excessive droving of heavy-
in-lamb ewes, or the holding of
them in yards overnight, or
shortage of feed due to drought
may precipitate the condition.
Broadly speaking, ewes for-
ward-in-lamb are likely to suffer
milk-fever after a short period
of starvation. It can usually be
recognised by the shortness of
its course and the almost
immediate recovery after injec-
tions of from l}oz. to 2oz. of 20
per cent, solution of calcium-
borogluconate. If the ewes
aren’t treated they usually die.
Affected sheep have a stagger-
ing gait, and seem weak in the
hindquarters. They stand about,
are restless, and there may be a
watery discharge from the
nostrils. Breathing may be
accelerated. When forced to
move they may tremble and
walk stiffly. Later (it may be
very soon) they go down,, and
death follows fairly quickly if
untreated: the report by Moule,
Jackson and Young says in “24
hours or so”; Belschner, in his
massive Sheep Management and
Diseases, says death may follow
within four to six hours of
symptoms developing, or be
delayed as long as 48 hours. In
any case, there are obvious diffi-
culties of treatment with large
numbers of sheep ; whieh under-
lies the old argument about
prevention.
Another point worth remem-
bering is Belschner’s recommen-
dation that, since the symptoms
of pregnancy-toxaemia and hypo-
calcemia (milk-fever) are so
often confused, the only sure
method of diagnosis is by treat-
ing some sick ewes with calcium
injections and watching results.
Where sickness occurs in ewes
with lambs at foot, or sheep
other than ewes are affected,
pregnancy-toxaemia is not indi-
cated. But Belschner’s “dif-
ferential diagnosis” is worth
repeating as a guide where sick-
ness occurs in ewes in advanced
pregnancy:
1. When ewes in-lamb sicken
after a period of starvation,
hypocalcaemia is the most likely
cause, although pregnancy-tox-
aemia may be responsible.
2. Hypocalcaemia is more
likely to occur in good seasons
and pregnancy-toxaemia in bad
seasons ; but' this doesn’t always
hold.
3. Hypocalcaemia usually com-
mences suddenly with a number
of sheep affected at the same
time, whereas pregnancy-toxaemia
occurs over a longer period, with
odd cases occurring.
4. Sickness or death in sheep
grazing on an oat or wheat crop,
or following any sudden im-
provement in grazing conditions,
is probably due to hypocalcaemia,
whereas if ewes are underfed and
falling away in condition or, on
the other hand, are overfat and
are not getting enough exercise,
it will most likely be pregnancy-
toxaemia.
5. If such ewes do not remain
long on their feet and go down
with head resting on the lower
jaw and hind-legs stretched out
behind and die mostly in 24
hours, the indications are for
hypocalcaemia; whereas if the
ewes stand about for some days
and go down in a natural rest-
ing manner, or lie on their sides
and take several days to die, the
disease can be assumed to be
pregnancy-toxaemia.
6. Post-mortem examination
reveals either a normal or slightly
congested and perhaps somewhat
blotchy liver in cases of hypo-
calcaemia, whereas cases of preg-
nancy-toxaemia exhibit a charac-
teristic yellowish or greyish, and
usually enlarged, liver.
But back to the Queensland re-
port. The authors list mastitis,
accidents at lambing, and acute
blood-poisoning among the other
causes of losses of both lambs
and mothers. Mastitis is inflam-
mation of the udder, and is most
commonly thought of in connec-
tion with dairying. But “it is
probably more common than is
generally imagined among ewes.”
It may occur in a mild, un-
complicated form, which may
leave part of the udder useless,
or it may be in the serious form.
In the latter, the udder becomes
bluish-black, the ewe goes lame,
breathes rapidly, has a high
temperature, and may die.
Prompt treatment, with sulpha-
mezathine at the rate of 1 gram
for every 151 b. weight, or injec-
tion of calcium-penicillin into
the udder, is recommended.
Acute blood-p oison i n g,
through bacteria entering the
breeding-bag during lambing,
isn’t very common, but when it
does occur it is usually fatal.
The 2211 ewes that lambed
during the three-year study in
Queensland produced 2467
lambs. Of these, 453 died at or
within three days of birth.
Further losses, ranging between
8.5 per cent, and 69 per cent,
of the survivors, occurred be-
tween the end of the third day
and marking. The average loss
of these lambs was 15 per cent.
The big loss of 69 per cent, was


Best
Mineral
Supplement
&\
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
Os
fV o>J*
BO***
I«»-**«*
2
t dti'€a£'6&*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular, gladly fvpptlad—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: &fJO to, JSBI,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. So* 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
8m 712 P. ADELAIDE • GJ>.O. Be* 7SBIC, BRISBANE
• G.P.O Bo* 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
KING-SIZE
PROTECT! CN!
SB
King Neptune 9 s
ADDITIVE-FORTIFIED
NEPTUNE
MOTOR OIL
Defeats all main causes of engine wear!
*1
during exceptionally heavy
summer rains in 1950.
Exposure was “by far” the most
important cause of loss at birth.
Some lambs were born during
heavy summer rains, on boggy
around. They were unable to get
up and soon died. Others were
bom during May, when the
weather was dry but cold. Frost
is unlikely to affect new-born
lambs as much as cold, drying
winds. These cause the moisture
in the lambs’ birth-coats to
evaporate so quickly that they
soon freeze to death.
Accidents during birth, and
bearing troubles, were also
important. But starvation and
predators (most important ones
were pigs and crows) were the
most important causes of loss
during the first three days of life.
Apart from any shortage of
feed, many ewes have faulty
udders (22 per cent, of the ewes
had some abnormality of the
udder), and the main causes of
abnormality were wounds at
shearing; others were enlarged
teats (sometimes from old
attacks of mastitis), plugged
teats, and lack of milk. Small
plugs of “wax” sometimes form
in the teat and become so tightly
lodged that, although the ewe
may have plenty of milk, the
lamb can’t get it.
Some Queensland sheepmen
mate ewes in autumn to lamb
in spring, others (particularly
in the north-west of the State)
mate them in spring to lamb in
autumn.
“You would have every right
to believe that lambs dropped
on to green-feed in the autumn
would be bigger than those
dropped in the spring on to dry
feed. The observations made
since 1949 in north-western
Queensland have shown that this
was not the case. The spring
lambs dropped on dry feed
weighed on the average 7.01 b.
The autumn lambs dropped on
to green-feed weighed only
4.91 b.
“Workers at the University’s
Physiology School subsequently
showed that the hot weather
common during the summer in
north-western Queensland may
cause ewes to have small lambs.
This finding raises several
problems in the management of
ewe flocks in north-western
Queensland.”
And, as is clearly demon-
strated statistically in the report,
birth-weight has an important
bearing on chances of survival.
Small lambs are often too weak
to suckle.
Ewes leaving lambs to fend
for themselves is, of course,
another cause of losses. Maiden-
ewes have the reputation of
doing it, but, although this does
occur, older ewes are also apt
to do it when they are in poor
condition, through lack of feed,
pink-eye, footrot, flystrike,
mastitis, or the embracing “bad
management.”
Bad management may include
some, or most, of the above.
Also under this heading: too
much handling, lambing in
paddocks through which stock-
routes pass, and lambing in
paddocks which are too large or
too small. “An important
complication resulting from the
last practice is that, contrary
to popular belief, Merino ewes
will adopt lambs to the exclusion
of their own offspring.”
On the other hand, if the
paddocks are too big, young
lambs knock-up trying to follow
their mothers to water. Con-
centration of large numbers of
ewes on a single watering-point
has the same effect as confining
the ewes in a small paddock.
They mill around, lambs are
adopted, lost, and a percentage
die.
Sometimes, when the season is
dry, ewes mother their lambs,
but the lambs die for no
apparent reason. Most probable
cause is lack of^itamin-A.
Double-up
“Haven”: Don’t be satisfied
to drench, or even vaccinate,
once. A single treatment may
check the parasites or bacteria,
but rarely gets rid of them. Twice
or more is usually necessary for
the job to be done effectively.
Drench now against the black-
scour and barbers’-pole worms,
and follow it up in three weeks’
time. Further drenchings at the
same interval are needed to
consolidate the early doses.
To beat pulpy-kidney it’s test
to vaccinate both ewes and
lambs twice a year to give the
desired length of immunity.
Twice - vaccinated ewes are
usually immune for the whole
season. The more-costly toxin
is reserved for urgent use when
deaths begin in the flock.
Protein-farmers
“Pusa”: As most of the blame
for Australia’s poor-quality flour
falls on the farmer, it must be a
comfort for him to know that
plantbreeders have the responsi-
bility for the quality of protein
in flour.
Growers can improve the
quantity of protein by produc-
ing crops on soils whose fertility
is improved by long rotations,
during which a legume is grown
in the pasture ; the amount of
organic-matter in the soil is
associated with the nitrogen
available to wheat-plants.
Highest-quality grain in Vic-
toria is grown in the eastern
Mallee ; lowest in the intensively-
cropped land near Horsham ;
and most-improved in districts
which have been under clover-
ley for many years. Best annual
legume for high-rainfall areas is
sub.-clover; best for drier
country, barrel-medic.,
Field-peas improve the soil
most when the mature crop is
fed-off rather than harvested.
Green-manure has failed to show
worth-while increase in grain-
quality or soil-nitrogen in Vic.
Ag. Dept, experiments.
Retention of fieavy stubbles in
intensively - cropped W i mmera
land has reduced yields and
grain-quality. No effect has been
recorded with lighter straw-crops
in the Mallee.
Fallowing increases soil-
nitrogen, but weeds must be con-
trolled well for best results in
this respect, as well as for storage
of soil-moisture. Effect of larger
dressings of sulphate -of -
ammonia, gaseous nitrogen and
urea as spray will be known
when experiments are finished.
No direct effect of minor-
elements on soil-nitrogen has
been recorded in Victoria.
Indirect effects occur from small
amounts of zinc which stimulate
legume growth in Wimmera
black soils, and from traces of
molybdenum which make strong
clover-growth possible on certain
large areas in several States.
Breeders forecast big improve-
ments in protein-quality during
the next few years.
Lack of Potash
“Booronga”: Are your clovers
growing as well as they should?
Are there whitish flecks and
brown edges on the leaves? Is
the sward open and weedy, with
flat weed and dandelion pro-
minent? Are the grasses
yellowish?
If a pasture shows these
symptoms, apply potash as soon
as you can. Use lcwt. per acre
of potash fertiliser (muriate or
sulphate) in addition to the
usual amount of superphosphate.
It costs money, but it is well
worth it.
Follow-up with, a bag to the
acre of 3:1 super, and potash
every year. A 10-ton crop of
potatoes and one ton of hay
contain the equivalent of l|cwt
and icwt. of potash-fertiliser
respectively.
If in doubt whether a paddock
needs potash, run a drill-width
of potash-manure across it and
note the response, by clovers
particularly. Boundary paddocks
of dairyfarms, especially in
Gippsland (Vic.), are often short
of potash. Paddocks cut often
for hay also need potash.
Green-lot
“Bugge”: Green-lot feeding,
in which green stuff is carted to
stock in an enclosure instead of
the animals eating it in the field,
might yet have a place in Aus-
tralia, with the increasing
numbers of forage-harvesters to
mechanise the job. The green-
lot and dry-lot (conserved fodder
and concentrates) are popular in
some other countries.
Advantages of the green-lot
include better utilisation of the
pasture because of the absence
of soiling by stock, and less
likelihood of bloat (although no
guarantee of avoiding it) from
the slightly wilted greenstuff.
Among the disadvantages, cost
of cutting and feeding-out the
grass, danger of pugging the
feeding-area, and the fact that
the manure has to be returned to
the fields to replenish the fertility.
Advantages must be great to
offset the normal cheapness of
animals “harvesting” and “top-
dressing” a field themselves.
Farm Hints
Spray tally - pens
and branding-race with mixture
of hot water and carbolic disin-
fectant before shearing.
“Nidus”: If you have many
trees to plant much backbreak-
ing work can be saved by blast-
ing the holes with gelignite. Put
down a small hole with a crow-
bar to a depth of a couple of
feet, use about one-third of a
plug of gelignite, fill hole with
sand and retire to safe distance
after lighting fuse. The explo-
sion opens-up the ground nicely,
and by introducing cracks in
the surrounding soil assists
drainage. It’s a mistake to make
too big a hole if you have a
heavy clay subsoil, as the tree
is liable to die of “wet feet”
during the first winter.
“Hortus”: Don’t wait to
separate milk. Best temperature
is as it comes from the cow,
approximately 90°F. At lower
temperatures separation becomes
more difficult. What’s more, fat
losses are greater.
“H.”: After fitting axe-
handle on and tightly wedging
with wood, drill a hole
through head of axe and put in
a rivet. Should stay put for a
lifetime.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/9/’56)
Queensland should have general rains in many areas
during October, although the north-west may be mainly dry,
with little relief until November. Heaviest rains should be
in the southern half of the State. Severe wind and hail-
storms are likely in October-November.
In N.S.W., moderate general rains should follow during
October; it is, however, likely to be above normal in the
south-west, Riverina and far-west, though there should be
no excessive falls until December.
Most of Victoria should receive general rains above
average during October, with the possibility of renewed
flooding in the northern division; the western division con-
fined to m'oderate rains.
South Australia should again experience general rains
during October, with rainfall varying from light to moderate
in Central Australia.
Part of the Kimberleys of Western Australia may have
good rains during October, with light to moderate rain in
the south-west. Apart from light rain in the Gascoyne
and goldfields areas, rain in the balance of the State is likely
to be poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
As Lincoln Said
I have just re-read certain axioms pro-
pounded by Abraham Lincoln nearly 100
years ago. They appear to me to be just
as fitting and appropriate to affairs today
as they apparently were in the author’s
time. They are:
You cannot bring about prosperity by
discouraging thrift.
You cannot strengthen the weak by
weakening the strong.
You cannot help the poor by destroy-
ing the rich.
You cannot establish sound security on
borrowed money.
You cannot keep out of trouble by
spending more than you earn.
You cannot build character and
courage by taking away man’s initiative
and independence.
You cannot help men permanently by
doing for them what they could do for
themselves.—R. J. K. (Vic.).
Broken Swings
Visiting different Sydney suburbs of
a weekend, I often take along my four-
year-old daughter, who invariably insists
on a swing as soon as we sight the local
park. Without fail I have found that
half at least of the available swings are
broken and unusable, and the others
often look unsafe.
If the park in my own suburb is any-
thing to go on, they remain unrepaired
for months at a time!
A minor matter perhaps ; but some-
how I feel that the lack of interest in
children’s playgrounds thus shown by
councils and civic bodies may be some-
how connected with juvenile delinquency.
It certainly reflects the community’s
general unconcern with providing young
people with enough and proper
recreational and sporting facilities. —•
K. R. (N.S.W.).
Sunspots, Atoms and Floods
A study of the collated records over
the past 100 years of sunspot activity and
weather vagaries is interesting.
It shows that whenever an extra-large
sunspot appeared the seasonal cycle was
seriously disturbed for the following
couple of years. Excessive rain with
heavy flooding was general.
Though there is a definite frequency
of 11 to 12 years between maxima and
minima manifestations in the number of
visible sunspots, it is the major eruptions
which are responsible for weather upsets
with prolonged wet conditions.
A huge spot, for instance, in 1868-69
“Sorry, but were under contract with Superfilms .”
culminated in the disastrous floods of
1870. This spot was over 120,000 miles
in width. Another large one in 1905
tied-in with the 1906 floods.
A similar-sized eruption in 1930 pre-
ceded the 1931 disasters. All other
recorded flood disasters tie-in with super-
sunspot displays.
There has been a crop of 40,000-
50,000 ft. spots, the minimum size visible
to the naked eye, since 1954.
The giant, eruptions in the present
cycle are not due until 1957. The geo-
physical year coincides for this reason.
Sunspots and atomic explosions, fission
and fusion, are identical phenomena.
This is a proven fact and demands serious
consideration. The sun, in addition to
light and heat, sends out some other
cosmical force. The characteristics and
function of these phenomena are not yet
known. To create a manifestation in the
earth’s atmosphere of a natural,
dangerously powerful cosmic force
without a full knowledge of the
phenomena emulated is, to say the least,
very hazardous.
The fascination of research can, of
course, blind one to the dangers. As
one nuclear-physicist told me, “We don’t
know, but we’ll have fun finding out.”
It is a reasonable hypothesis to assume
that the atom-bomb firings' over the past
few years have added to the sum
of the small-spot emanations to equal a
giant eruption. Hence the present wide-
spread weather upsets and disastrous
floodings.
Hypotheses are not scientifically accept-
able as against proven factual bases, but
over the past three years atom-bomb
trials and seasonal and weather vagaries
do tie-in to a significant degree.
What will happen next year when the
sun’s and the earth’s atomic trials are
at a peak remains to be experienced.
To river-flat dwellers it looks like a
case of all who read must run. — Old
Opencut (S.A.).
Railway Costs
There are two very cogent reasons
for working - expenses in N.S.W. Rail-
ways drifting from 69.9 per cent, in
1936 to 92.4 per cent, last year (B.
20/6/’56).
It was in the early ’thirties that the
department embarked on innovations
which, by the colossal expenditure
entailed and concomitant inefficiency
and waste, have added hundreds of
thousands of pounds to the annual wages-
bill.
One venture was what might be
termed the schoolboy era, and the other
was the telephone train-control system.
Before 1936, or thereabouts, officers in
the higher positions of the Traffic
(operating) Branch graduated from the
bottom of the ladder. Starting as junior-
porters, they rucked their way through all
the complex, varied phases of train-
working, traffic - movement, station -
management and handling of staff, and
got to the top by sheer ability. They
were practical men, knew how the job
should be done and knew how to get it
done. To some minds, however, they
were not the right type for the higher
stratum. The road to success was
suddenly routed via the examination-
room and departmental schools; book-
lore was preferred to rugged experience.
The school craze spread. Inspectors
and train-controllers were selected in the
same way, in many, many cases without
any previous active association with the
intricate and extensive operations they
were appointed to direct and supervise.
“Babes in the wood,” they were called,
and it was apt. Confronted with main-
line accidents (derailments, washaways,
etc.), traffic tie-ups, tangles in
marshalling-yards or downright laxity on
the part of the staff, they were hope-
lessly out of their depth. With the boss
the laughing-stock of the team, is it any
wonder that nobody cared whether the
job was done or not and that, as a con-
sequence, working-costs soared?
There was an added reason for tele-
phone train-control frittering away huge
sums of money. This system of working
took away a big slice of the duties and
responsibilities of depot-officers and
station-officers, and one would have
expected that the latter, with less to do
and less to supervise, would be reduced
in status. A little was done in this regard,
but only a tittle to what was required to
offset the tremendous installation-costs
of telephone train-control and the high
, . * ■, .. , • *. j
salaries paid to those engaged in l .
telephone train-control in the
N.S.W. Railways slugged-up the working
expenses and showed practically nothing
f° r it.
When the idea of schooling senior
officers in the department was first
mooted, ohe of the chiefs of the day saw
what would happen. “Put that into
practice,” he said, “and the Traffic
“Now a violent revolutionary—came under the influence of a grandson .”
Branch will fall to bits in no time.”
From the serenity of his retirement he
must smile grimly at the accuracy of his
forecast.— Landmark (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
The present rate of 10s. a week
endowment for the second child and
subsequent children was fixed in 1948,
when it represented 8.4 per cent, of the
basic wage. Now it amounts to a mere
3.8 per cent., and with the price of meat,
potatoes, milk and other essentials
soaring, 10s. will scarcely support a cat
for a week, let alone a child.
The advisability of extending payment
of child-endowment for children over 16
also deserves serious consideration.
Parents are being urged to give their
offspring the benefits of higher educa-
tion, which means keeping them at school
and wholly dependent for another couple
of years at least.
It is at this stage that the cost of
maintaining a child increases sharply.
Food and clothing for
them costs as much as for
an adult.
On present-day costs, £1
a week child-endowment
would not be excessive for
children over 16. —D. J. G.
(Vic.).
Hire-purchase
Another thing that
might help to reduce hire-
purchase (B. 22/8 / ’56) is
a more general realisation
of the interest-rates the
purchaser has to pay.
Then there is insurance—
most h.-p. companies
insure through a subsidiary
company (formed specifi-
cally for that purpose) at
much higher rates than
those charged by ordinary
insurance companies. The
purchaser has to pay, of
course.
Another deterrent might be a law
granting the purchaser an equity in the
article he’s “buying.” The word “equity”
has no place in the language of an h.-p.
company or in the agreement; until the
final payment is made the article is being
“hired” and the “hirer” hasn’t a penny’s
interest in it. You could pay a couple of
hundred quid and lose the lot if you
failed to pay the last fiver.
Most people take the view that each
payment gives them an added equity, and
this view is encouraged by the salesman,
but it’s wrong. A lot more people would
think twice if they realised the only
payment that counts is the last one, while
the companies might require higher
deposits if the customer did have an
equity in the goods.— Spin (W.A.).
Butter and Margarine
A co-operative store in which I am
interested received a letter from a branch
of the Queensland Dairymen’s Organisa-
tion asking it not to stock margarine.
Similarly, not long ago, a show-society
got into hot water with the dairymen over
a recipe-book distributed by the pig-
farmers at the show to boost sales of
bacon and ham. In some of the recipes
“butter or margarine” was specified. I’m
afraid the dairymen concerned are on the
wrong track.
As a dairyfarmer I naturally want to
see sales of butter maintained at a high
level. But as a pig-raiser I appreciate the
fact that margarine provides a market for
the lard from the bacon-factories. If I
grew peanuts or caught whales for a
living I would also be interested in the
margarine-market. All these are Aus-
tralian industries, and none has any right
to exclude another from a fair share of
the home-market.
The opponents of margarine retort
that it is made largely from coconut-oil
grown by cheap colored labor. That may
be true, but as far as New Guinea and
the Solomons are concerned we have legal
and moral obligations to these areas.
Further, in a generation or two they may
be self-governing, nations, and self-
interest bids us foster the closest possible
ties with them in the meantime, including
trade-ties. At present, copra is their
staple export.
It has been alleged that copra from
other sources is brought into New Guinea
and re-exported to Australia as “local.”
If that is done, the Tariff Board should
find a way of stopping it. When all
our manufactures are heavily protected,
the dairymen are also entitled to protec-
tion against such dubious practices, as,
for that matter, are other local producers
of edible fats. But once this point is
rectified butter must hold its own on the
local market on its own merits. It can
do this if we are prepared to find the
necessary money for advertising and
research.
Butter’s many advantages must be
stressed to the full. For example:
Margarine is very similar in composi-
tion to the non-volatile fats which make
up about seven-eighths of butterfat. The
other eighth consists of a group of
delicate volatile oils which are peculiar
to butter, and which must be important
to nutrition since Nature has been careful
to include them in the natural food of
the young of mammals.
Vitamins known to exist in butter are
added to margarine, but there are
probably others in butter, not yet identi-
fied. No cake made with margarine is
quite equal, in flavor or texture, to a
similar one made with butter.
Margarine is certainly cheaper than
butter. It keeps better without refrigera-
tion, probably because it lacks the
volatile oils referred to in the foregoing.
It is a valuable food, and there is no
reason why it should not find a place in
the normal diet. But it is not really a
substitute for butter.
There are prospects of big advances
in the use of butter by-products, though
the benefits will be long-range rather than
immediate. The average composition of
milk is given as: Fats, 3.9 per cent.;
proteins (mainly casein and albumen),
3.2 per cent.; sugar, 5.1 per cent.; ash
(comprising quite a large number of
mineral-salts in readily assimilable form),
0.7 per cent.; water, 87.1 per cent. Milk


also is rich in vitamins, particularly A
and D (fat-soluble) and B (water-soluble).
Butter contains nearly all the butterfat
and fat-soluble vitamins, with minute
quantities of the other components. These
others, all extremely valuable human
foods, remain largely in the skim-milk
and buttermilk, which are very similar
in composition except that th£ latter is
richer in fat. Yet they are used mainly
for feeding animals. Skim-milk is
reckoned as worth about 2d. a gallon for
this purpose. As human food it should
be worth at least Is. Used in this way
it would make possible a reduction in
the price of butter. But there are problems
to be overcome:
Though skim-milk is such a valuable
food, it has been found extremely difficult
to put it in a form suitable for this pur-
pose. A powdered skim-milk has now
been developed, however, and added to
bread it improves the flavor, texture,
keeping-quality and, of course, food-
value. The cost is a trifling increase in
the price of a- loaf.
Casein from skim-milk is also the base
for a series of plastics, ranging from
glue to textiles. Other uses may be
found.
Another problem: were the factories to
receive whole-milk instead of cream their
suppliers would need five times as many
cans, there would be five times as many
milk-trucks on the roads, they would run
daily instead of at two- or three-day
intervals, and factories would have to
instal a lot of very expensive machinery.
Also, the present practice of feeding
skim-milk to nearly all our calves and
many of our pigs would end.
All these problems can be solved, but
the solutions will take time and money.
It must not be forgotten, either, that
not all our butter is as good as it should
be. Any product is much easier to sell
if it can be guaranteed of uniform high
quality.
Loss of part of the butter-market to
margarine might also be countered by
using more milk in other ways. For
instance, the consumption of whole-milk
is increasing, and the increase is likely
to continue.
Cheese-consumption is nearly static,
though cheese is one of the most valuable
of all foods, containing all the food-
value of whole-milk except the sugar,
some of the minerals and a very small
part of the fat and proteins, which are
lost with the whey (even this may be
recovered, as there are prospects of using
whey-powder—for example, in confec-
tionery). Cheese is more concentrated
than milk, containing 33 per cent, water
against 87 per cent, in milk. It can be
compared in food-value with meat or
eggs, but is better than meat in many
ways and is easier to store for long
periods.
There are several reasons for the
limited popularity of cheese. Australians
have never learnt to regard cheese as
a basic food ; much of our cheese is not
of satisfactory quality; and there
is not nearly enough variety in the
types of cheese made here to cater
for all tastes. European cheeses are
being sold here at several shillings for
2oz. We should be making and popu-
larising similar fancy lines as well as the
familiar standard varieties.
Preserved milk in various forms enjoys
a limited sale here, mainly where fresh
milk is not readily available. This market
is not likely to increase to any extent,
but there are possibilities of export-
markets in countries where dairying is
difficult. This is being investigated.
The dairying-industry starts off with
the advantages that it is highly organised
and that it produces a range of essential
foods for which there is no really satis-
factory substitute. If it is alert to seize
every opportunity for improvement there
will soon, be no need to talk of banning
margarine. There will be room for all
we can produce of both. — Magnoon
(Q-). , _____
Bamboo Music
Frank Snow’s comments (B. 15/8/’56)
on the many uses of bamboo were very
interesting, particularly when it is realised
that the bamboo-stem can be anything
from a vegetable to a vase at various
stages of its life.
The Japanese have known its handi-
ness for centuries, and it is highly valued
by them, even though the archipelago has
plenty of attractive timbers.
Ancient bamboo objects are preserved
in a repository for national treasures at
Nara, and museums display bamboo
articles made generations before Com-
modore Perry bucked Japanese isola-
tionism.
The ancient capital of Kyoto boasts
"I say nationalise EVERYTHING ’ n keep the Government out of it!”
some very graceful bamboo vases made
by Rikkyu, a 17th-century poet and
maSter of the tea-ceremony. Rikkyu is
said to have committed ceremonial
suicide by Imperial decree, but his vases
are still cherished by one of Rikkyu’s
descendants. He is Sen Soshitsu, also a
tea-ceremony mister. Many Australians
who have visited Kyoto have called at
Soshitsu’s tea-school behind the Kabuto-
Mon (Helmet Gate) in a Kyoto side-
street.
Most traditional Japanese instruments
are made of bamboo. The bamboo flute
( shakuhachi ) has a pleasant tone like that
of a recorder. Top-grade performers on
the shakuhachi are as popular with older
Japanese as are the stars of the modem
Takarazuka Girls’ Opera with the local
high-school bobby-soxers.
A unique use for bamboo has been
found by a Hiroshima musical-instrument
maker. This enterprising character has
found a way to flatten bamboo under
steam-pressure without breaking it. Then,
with more steam-pressure in moulds, he
makes violin bodies. I visited his factory
and heard a test of some of the
instruments.
The tester was a young Japanese music-
student who played a set piece (first 10
bars of Saint-Saens’ “The Swan”) on each
violin as it came off the production-line
with the varnish barely dry. I learned, by
the way, that the test-man didn’t use a
bamboo violin for his own recreation. He
had a 90-years-old French model for
that.
The tone of the bamboo instruments
was not at all bad for the price—£1 ss.
Australian ; bow and case slightly extra.
The manager of the factory told me
that he had stacks of weathered bamboo
ready to be made into violins, but he was
threatened with a production-bottleneck
because he couldn’t get enough white
horses’ tail-hair to string the bows that
went with the violins. — J. E. H. (N.S.W.).
Automation
Contrary to “Old Opencut’s” opinion
(B. 8/8/’56), automation does not pay for
its keep by the basic fact that, from start
to finish, each minute of time is at
maximum production. These machines
stop at the least fault in material or
misalignment of feed, the electronic eyes
pass faults which the human eye would
reject, and breakdowns are not im-
possible. The automaton’s loaf-time is a
cost-item rivalling that of the human
machinist.
Automation pays in the same way as
does aity machine —it can do work at a
faster rate than a human, or, alternatively,
it can do work of which the human is
incapable.
Automation is merely a filling-in with
new machinery of the gap where one
machine leaves-off and another takes-up.
Integration of a number of machines then
being possible, the utmost compactness is
sought to achieve additional savings in
floor-space, power-transmissions, time
and machine-manufacturing costs.
Electronic controls add glamor by
achieving what the purely mechanical
cannot.
An early example verging on automa-
tion is the magazine-press which will
print in, say, three colors, fold, trim,
perhaps stitch, and count at fantastic
speeds. To compare production by this
method with production by the. old
method of individual machines for each
operation is to realise how futile it is for
Australian manufacturers to attempt
world-parity of costs if they are not pre-
pared to buy and fight for the right to
import the latest in machinery.
From store to dispatch, no factory is
efficient where men do work for which
machines are used elsewhere or where
machines are not up-to-date or com-
pletely suitable. Complaints of “late
starting after breaks, yawning, back-
scratching, cigarette-rolling, ablutions,
eating and washing and so on” come too
often from factories operating machinery
already depreciated to break-up value.
Modern plant and efficient management
are incompatible with “loaf.”
On a national and Government level,
we choose to live off the primary in-
dustries, where mechanisation cost-savings
are relatively small, and leave- the
secondary industries, where big cost-
savings are possible, to struggle on in the
face of import-restrictions, material-
scarcities and every conceivable diffi-
culty. The Board of Trade and the
Ministry of Supply are but part of the
British Government’s efforts to smooth
the path for industry—and post-war
exports and production figures are con-
vincing proof that amiable hard-working
co-operation between Government and
industry pays big dividends.
Until we realise that a .“hands-off-
industry” policy is useful only in pro-
tecting industry from threats of nation-
alisation and other unnecessary irritations,
we will not gain the full benefit from
automation or any other mechanical
advances.
Food for thought is offered by “Old
Opencut’s’’ reference to automation’s “80
per cent, reduction in the labor-bill
reducing selling-prices to world-parity.
You don’t sack the surplus [labor]; you
go after the markets and quadruplicate
the plant and output.”
Will Australia have automation even
one year after the main industrial
countries have “quadruplicated”? Or
will the Federal Government decide that,
because we could - then import more
cheaply and overseas spending is not to
be encouraged, automation should be
deferred until an ever-receding “later
date”?
A measure of our industrial effort is
that the immigration-floY of 125,000 in
one year provided about three-million
additional man-hours per week in the
following year for non-mechanised, and
therefore costly, production. When we
acquire in any one year machinery
capable of saving a similar number of
man-hours, then may we be close to
stability.—J. G. M. (Vic.).
A Radio School
A classroom covering 100,000 square
miles of mallee-scrub, saltbush grazing-
country, farmlands and salt-lakes sounds
a bit stretched, but that is the area covered
by the radio-school operating from
Ceduna on the west coast of S.A.
In February this year the S.A. Educa-
tion Department correspondence section
linked-up with the Bush Church Aid
Society in using the latter’s transceivers to
serve children unable to reach school.
Now, instead of doing lessons by post,
the youngsters actually hear the teacher
talking to them.
Many of the children are in the Eyre
Peninsula, along the far-west coast and in
the north-western areas of the State. Some
of the little places are Koonalda, the
Coober Pedy opal-field, Iron Knob, near
Whyalla, and Coulta, near Port Lincoln.
There are three lessons each day over
this school-radio. Children in each grade
from first to seventh have the lesson-
papers in front of them while the teacher
explains the whole thing over the air.
School by radio means these far-out-
back children can have ordinary lessons
just like the city kids. Children, mothers
and supervisors can ask the teacher a
question simply by .turning a switch, and
their problems are dealt with on the spot.
The teacher, too, can ask questions of
any pupils to test their ability.
Even though their classmates are 300-
400 miles away the children get to know
each other by their voices, and this helps
to break down their feeling of isolation.
It also encourages competition. Where
some of their children were once loath to
do their lessons, they are now keen to get
on with them and see if they can do better
than the other fellow in the next seat —
hundreds of miles off. •
The “school” covers an area bigger
than the United Kingdom, and it’s all
done through one mike. —Allan B.
(Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 399
Across
I—Can again add the article part of
the eye. (6)
4—Hatchet man with a bird. (8)
9 Pennsylvania loafer is an inn-
keeper. (7)
10— Jolson imitated a cow when let.
(7)
12— Fish beams. (4)
13— Where you might see a film censer
in disorder. (6)
14 — This is a Victorian town —and no
contradiction. (3)
16 —Peter’s mature (anagram). (12)
20 —Play on the green cloth giving
Lindwall a bowl. (7, 3,2)
22 Spot where a bishop works. (3)
23 Where is many a circus purpose?
(6)
25—They are singularly the finish of
many an illness. (4)
28— None see the label on this figure.
(?)
29 The father of a Tibetan ox back-
ing the East hazard with an
affirmative Hebridean isle. (7)
31 —Fermenting bite by 14-across. (8)
32—Don’t let the buckjumper throw
you! (4, 2)
Down
1 — A good round up caused by this
strike. (3)
2 Ivy bush affirmative right now.
(5)
3 Corner without approval. (4)
5 Make a fine speech scold nothing
at first. (5)
6 Forever the habits of Jolson. (6)
7 Crimes arranged by pinking pads.
(11)
8— inclination to write a song. (8)
11 — Chaney cog’s feature of donkeys.
(4, 4)
12 — Examine 1-across about a metal
bone duplicate. (11)
15 —Wigging a South American
sovereign. (8)
17— Milly loses heart as Amy loses
her head? (2)
18 — Twice Bunny drops by before the
editor is expelled from holy
orders. (8)
19— Billy loses heart next. (2)
21 —Although out of breath, bunk is
mentioned by one who could
handle the bigshots of the
Kaiser’s army? (6)
24 —Figure on a timber joint. (5)
26—A girl’s present may b'e so
inscribed, but a teetotaller
wouldn’t, accept it. (5)
27—Listen! This is a little different.
(4)
30 —American longing for foreign
money. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 398


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
BATTERIES
PjSSSS?^.
te: =' •
«asß^tets?fe
ICJ'* 1 *-
:!.:.WU
i-w*
-f*
ymz
: mz
\ •osks -Jj
ia •••• V/ ~ * ..
•. . I V;% v*j
. ,*• *t i '..v n
firs*i
y A
;V,
MVJt
mi
lllliil
i ,
;’ .v
KSv*
SSTtil
I:':!
!“vV sSK~ ‘- 4
■ : &
Hi
Ipsii&s
sgiWtt
»« m m ms.
x'&cA M w Mm
M
■/■ ■:■:
:*r :
»lp>i
fc¥r>'i
vmri
vmi
V
Hl' •
S-SiiS
ir.s*i
m
m " x
' “ +■ * 1 _i , 1 ..
11 ; 4 ’. I
r< ■
g3R$
■: : i:
M
ja^avsjjr
V.« . V: -j:
fries
■(* !» iij 0> t ■ fc.
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALU
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
IS6 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,'
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE,
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON§
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
