

/
Hi
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
GERMANY 2B
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3985
Wednesday, June 27, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 304: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
HERIOT’S OF EDINBURGH, ERSTWHILE HOSPITAL, IS A SCHOOL FOR BOYS
EDINBURGH has long been famous for its educational facilities; it
possesses a great University with a world-renowned medical school. It
has a College of Art with facilities for the continued education of art
students through the Andrew Grant Bursaries and Scholarships; and the city
has the well known Heriot-Watt College. The University is well supplied
with entrants from the modern secondary educational establishments, such
as the Royal High School, the Merchant Company Schools and George
Heriot’s School, shown in the accompanying illustration.
Heriot’s Hospital, now a boys’ secondary school, stands in Lauriston
Place. Its founder, George Heriot (or Jingling Geordie as he was known),
was goldsmith to James VI and a wealthy moneylender. Following the
death of his sons he did much for the maintenance and education of orphans
of freemen of Edinburgh, and he richly endowed the fine school which bears
his name. His original endowment has. since his death in 1624, considerably
increased in value, and the scope of the Trust has been extended. It contributes
to the maintenance of the Heriot-Watt College in Chambers Street. The school
is now a modern and technical fee-paying day school with no boarders,
although an allowance for board is made to a certain number of
foundationers.
The buildings of the school are formed around a central quadrangle and
are elaborately turreted and decorated, particularly above the windows. They
were begun m 1628 to the designs of William Wallace, the King’s master
mason. The whole edifice is a splendid example of the Renaissance
architecture of that period. It incorporates the Tudor castellated baronial
style with Gothic details; at each angle are square towers surmounted by
turrets.
The edifice was requisitioned b‘y Cromwell as a military Hospital and was
not used for its intended purpose until 1659 when General Monk removed the
patients. The western wall of the building adjoins a portion of the old City
Wall which was built after the Battle of Flodden in 1513.


BOOKIIUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you-—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
FIELD-MARSHAL SLIM ON BURMA
Several books have been written by
British officers about the Burma cam-
paign. They are books much used by
the officer-student. One has been
written from the diary of General Stir-
well, American commander of the
Chinese, the product of an extra-
ordinary mind which seemed to regard
everybody with whom he was associ-
ated with disfavor —his Generalissimo,
Chiang Kai-shek, as “peanut”-headed,
the British as mere “limeys,” Admiral
Mountbatten as a “glamor boy” and
General Alexander and the rest of the
commanders of the early and more
disastrous period of the war as weak-
kneed cowards:—
Saw British yesterday at Magwe —
complete demoralisation saw
Alexander 9.30 to 11.00. Did Alec
have the wind up! Disaster and
gloom. No fight left in the British.
Afraid of the Japs who dress as
natives and live openly in the
villages.
The measure of this kind of authority
may be judged by the fact that at the
moment the passage was written the
British were risking annihilation of a
worn and tattered division by holding
a flank to shield General Stilwell’s
peculiar Chinese troops, the largest
section of whom could not even be
persuaded to stay and fight by the
offer of cash bonuses, much less by
orders.
Stilwell’s careless sort of estimate was
possibly its own antidote. But at the
same time a definitive book was
needed to set down the events of the
Burma campaign, fought in some of
the most tactically difficult country in
the world. It has been published in
Field-Marshal Sir William Slim’s epic
Defeat Into Victory (Cassell).
Few works about modern war have
its stature. It is monumental without
being too large to read. It is meticu-
lous in setting out detail. It paints the
background of the theatre clearly so
that the war can be seen accurately
against it. It does not attempt to cover
up error or shirk responsibility. And
it has a human approach, is exciting
and comprehensible to the ordinary
reader. m As far as space allows it
exhausts the author’s exclusive know-
ledge of his own contemporary think-
ing and motives and aims during vital
crises.
The history of the Burma War, in
brief, was somewhat as follows. When
the Japanese threatened to overwhelm
S.-E. Asia, General Alexander was sent
to Burma primarily to hold Rangoon,
a main port. He was denied the use
of the Australian Seventh Division,
which was at sea. His forces consisted
of the desert-trained Indian 17th
Division and the scratch Ist Burma
Division, which was a polyglot affair
scarcely trained at all, plus the capable
Seventh Armored Brigade. The trans-
port was all mechanical. The divisions
were therefore tied to the roads.
Like everything else in Burma, the
roads, railways and waterways ran
north and south through bacon-streak
country, saw-tooth yoma, rain-forest,
parched valley and plain. The Japanese
were picked formations of jungle-
trained infiltrators. They had com-
plete command of the air after the first
month. Their natural approach was on
a broad flank from the east. Their
tactic was to filter through the jungle
to the road, set down a heavy road-
block, holding up the huge columns
of road-bound defenders, and then
carve the halted column into bits from
the flank. Since there was no intelli-
gence-service to warn the British of
attack and no way of getting the troops
off the roads, the result was likely to
be obvious from the beginning. The
17th Division, a large portion of it
blocked off, met disaster at the Sittang
River bridge. Rangoon fell. No objec-
tive seemed to be left save either to
retake Rangoon or retreat by land
across the Indian border. At this
stage General Slim came in to take over
corps command.
Chinese troops in fearsome numbers
were supposedly moving down from
the north to co-operate. Their advent
“may have raised a flicker of hope that
the recovery of Rangoon was possible,”
but “the loss of Toungoo and the state
of the Chinese armies soon quenched
that glimmer.” Save for the 38th
Chinese Division, Major-General Sun,
which came under British command,
the Chinese ran like rabbits before the
great shearing thrust which the
Japanese made at them along the
eastern flank of the British retreat.
The British, having done their best
to consolidate, walked 900 miles into
India. Sun and his 38th Division got
out into Assam. General Stilwcll
walked to safety by another route.
General Slim summed him up later as
a soldier whose drive and power of
personal leadership he admired, one
who went about dressed like a duck-
hunter and was apt to live in head-
quarters “unnecessarily primitive
delighting in an exhibition of rough
living to foster the idea of a tough,
hardbitten, plain-fighting general,”
though “goodness knows he was tough
and wiry enough to be recognised as
such without the play-acting.” He
found him difficult, crossgrained, apt
to live up to his nickname of Vinegar
Joe, but manageable when without an
audience and a man of his word when
it had been given clearly and plainly.
The only profit from the first cam-
paign and the long retreat was a know-
ledge of the staunchness of the British
divisional leadership and an insight
into the nature of the Japanese
organisation—“a perfect instrument for
the type of operation they intended,
their use of it unhesitating and accurate,
their object clearly and definitely the
destruction of our forces; ours, rather
a nebulous idea of retaining territory,”
which led to “the initial dispersion of
our forces over wide areas....and
worse still... .to a defensive attitude of
mind.” The enemy’s leadership was
summed-up as “confident, bold to the
point of foolhardiness and so aggres-
sive that never for one day did they
lose the initiative.” General Slim, who
was to find himself in the major role
of command designed to exploit this
depressing knowledge, found them, in
fact, men rather #fter his own heart in
the matter of tactics and military out-
look.
He knew already from his study of
the Russo-Japanese war that it was
axiomatic practice with all Japanese
commanders to push battle to the limit
and if necessary commit their reserves
to the last man, often winning against
Russian formations, which still had
reserves, with the last scrapings of their
own barrel. Their weakness was a
tendency to over-gamble on supply and
administrative resources and to stick
too steadfastly to a prefabricated plan.
General Slim served a further period
of apprenticeship as corps-commander
of XV Corps on the Arakan front,
after the return of his original corps
to India in 1942. There, in an unsuc-
cessful campaign in the pre-monsoon
season of 1943, his operative com-
mand learnt about the dangers of
attack on too-narrow fronts and the
chances of outflanking strokes by the
enemy, together with a good deal about
the refinements of tunnel- and bunker-
and tortoise-position fighting in the
malaria-country and the saw-edged
yomas.
After that he was ready to be moved
up to the command of the 14th Army,
a force which he was to forge into a
weapon to defeat the Japanese and tear
their forces to pieces in Burma, coping
with the revelation which had come to
the High Command that it was not,
after all, as had been believed, impos-
sible “to supply, move and fight great
armies” in or through the mass of
Burmese border-mountains.... “some
of the world’s worst country, breeding
the world’s worst diseases and having
for half the year at least the world’s
worst climate.”
And this task of attack General Slim
was called on to generate from the very
beginning, from the point of talking
himself into the position in which he
was the acknowledged brain and direct-
ing-power of half-a-million men of
varying races—West African. British,
U.S., Indian. Gurkha—who had to be
made to see, as the very basis of morale,
where the task of each “fitted into the
whole, to realise what depended on it
and to feel pride and satisfaction in
doing it well.”
This could not be done by written
exhortations, by wireless speeches, but
only by personal talking by the higher
command right down the scale: “to
units, to collections of officers, to head-
quarters, to little groups of men, to
individual soldiers casually met as we
moved around.” Every spare moment
was devoted to this task, till “I was in
these first few months more like a
Parliamentary candidate than a general
—except that I have never made a
promise.”
He had to build-up a new conviction
—to support which the troops so far
had seen no practical evidence that
the Japanese were not unconquerable
supermen. The staggering nature of
his job is shown by this fact alone.
He was greatly aided by the news
which arrived that Australian troops
had stripped the enemy of his mantle
of invincibility very thoroughly at
Milne Bay and sent him home (those of
him able to go home) naked and
ashamed.
After that he had less trouble.
Experience taught the men pride as
he proceeded with training on the basis
that “patrolling”—and the practical
samples of the rewards of victorious
initiative which it provides “is the
basis of success in jungle warfare,
giving eyes to the side that excels in it,
enabling the soldier to move confidently
in the element in which he must fight.”
Behind all his driving there was a
calm routine:—
I had seen too many of my col-
leagues crack under the immense
strain of command in the field not
to realise that, if I were to continue,
I must have ample leisure to think,
and unbroken sleep. Generals would
do well to remember that, even in
war, “The wisdom of a learned man
cometh by opportunity of leisure.”
The detail of the campaign, precipi-
tated by the refusal of the Japanese to
wait to be hit before first trying to
wipe-out reserves in Arakan and then
making a dash for the capture of the
Brahmaputra Valley, is well told. Mis-
takes are not covered or excused. They
were fortunate that the greatest mistake
was made by Sato, the Japanese
attacker of Kohima, who failed to
take his golden opportunity and drive
straight to the Dimapur, the railhead,
or the railway itself.
This largely cost the Japanese the
great definitive battle of Imphal-
Kohima and Western Burma with at
least 90,000 deaths and serious casual-
ties, the loss of the initiative and huge
masses of materials, artillery and trans-
port. It sent Kawabe’s armies reeling
back to suffer a thorough carving-up
after their command had been changed
and they had made a desperate large-
scale attempt to retrieve their position
by counter-offensive tactics. The ulti-
mate result of over a year of advances
and mopping-up was that the British
were back in Rangoon well before the
Japanese surrender. They reached the
Sittang River, where the 17th Indian
Division had suffered its first disaster
early in 1942, two days before the
atom-bomb fell on Hiroshima.
The story gives just perspective to
the Chindit operation—which the press
depicted wrongly as if it were the
winning factor —and to Stilwell’s and
the U.S.A.F. operations.
Field-Marshal Slim tells his story
with a careful attention to proportion
and balance. He is generous in his
praise of fellow-officers. He brings out
their characteristics frankly and is not
afraid to delineate their faults, as when
in discussing Wingate he writes that he
had been “likened to Peter the Hermit
preaching his crusade”; a man whose
trouble “was, I think, that he regarded
himself as a prophet, and that leads to
self-centredness that verges on fanati-
cism”; a man of boundless ambition
who confided his intentions to nobody,
least of all to his superiors, “stimulat-
ing when he talked of strategy or grand
tactics, but strangely naive when it
came to the actual business of fighting
the Japanese, against whom he had
never experienced a real fight, much
less a battle.” He could not get it into
his head that the Japanese would not
be frightened into withdrawal, as the
Italians had been in Abyssinia, by a
threat to their rear, but “must be
battered and destroyed by hard fight-
ing-”
The Field-Marshal rightly claims
that a most distinctive aspect of the
Burma War was that “we discovered
by trial and error the methods of air-
supply that later passed into general
use. The 14th Army was the first to
maintain large formations in action
solely by air-supply and to move
standard divisions for long distances
about the front by air.”
In the second Chindit operation of
1944, 30,000 men and 5000 animals
were put down long distances behind
the enemy lines by air and maintained
by air for months.
The important advance by the Burma
command was probably (taken overall
as to its devices) in the technique of
dispersed fighting, which must be
normal from now onward in modern
warfare under compulsion of nuclear
weapons and increased power to pro-
duce and move concentrated firepower.
Ek Dum.
New Kylie Tennant
Wyndham Lewis in one of his books
of criticism created a devastating effect
by quoting the opening page of Aldous
Huxley’s “Point Counter Point” as
against the first page of a novel by
Henry James. What On earth would
he have made of the appalling first
sentence of Kylie Tennant’s new novel
The Hcmey Flow (Macmillan)?—
Every time my memory opens its
mouth it dribbles roads.
The general slanginess of the novel
is, no doubt, an attempt to put
into practice the doctrine of Joseph
Furphy: “Temper, democratic; bias,
offensively Australian.” But Furphy
was too wise ever really to be offensive
in his prose. He kept his colloquialism
largely for his dialogue, and, in his
own person, wrote purely and
smoothly; often enough, pedantically.
Nor would you find this facile slangi-
ness even in the less sophisticated
founders of the Australian school,
Henry Lawson and Steele Rudd.
Of course Kylie Tennant has the
defence here that “The Honey Flow”
is written in the first-person, and it is
not the novelist dribbling roads but her
narrator: but the narrator still sounds
too much like the novelist herself,
either just not bothering or trying to
be over-Australian. She should beware:
for what she is really practising here—
amidst patches of the admirable prose
she has always been able to write—is
not the style of Furphy but the no-
style of Mr. Frank Clune.
Another familiar weakness in this
novel is the militant feminism, distantly
resembling Miles Franklin’s, which
makes Kylie Tennant choose—once
again a thoroughly unromantic
character for her heroine: with the
result that the central story lacks
suspense and the novel as a whole,
sprawling all over the place, lacks
form.
Kylie Tennant is never so naive as
Miles Franklin, whose heroines in
successive novels reproved the tender
advances of their lovers by slashing
them across the face with horsewhips,
throwing cabbages and coal-scuttles at
them and, in the last Brent of Bin Bin.
strangling the poor fellow and tossing
him in the campfire. On the contrary,
she is always on the point of being
Rabelaisian, and. indeed, with her
minor characters —the amorous bee-
keepers of “The Honey Flow”—
allows life to take its normal course I.
to the consequent invigorating of he. ’
narrative. . .
But with her central characters it is
astonishing how often a mosquito, a
telephone or—as here —another lady
happening to drop into the gentleman s
couch, interrupts the course of life
just at the critical moment; how the
novels, vaguely purporting to be love-
stories, are, in fact, stories of no-love:
{Continued on page 35)


’ vv'
mmm
->
llllPlillllllllli
><■
ill*
mm
<
msm
vy-xx-::-::*::
m
1111
mmsm
•-
i ?§•
• 'V '
mmm ■
■—l ■■
msm
mmfff s*ss
... _•
SBS
XvXC
w
X
'. ‘i
wm
BMn
C 2
syjaiftx?
■
w
£2
SIS*
U
ra
yj
1
Ilium
mu,
BS
if
/
,i ;■
£g:
WWOT
iHVI
1
nut
Immum™ iltuvu
yr '.'"M
11 liuuumi*
u_
SsSi
Mraanaai
ifr
iSlisKpiSSs
s*s
aS&I
!
nmm
W*
< . x ‘
Haig
liiiliiill
>;§£
.
•:
• * |
.
’
•-
For cleaner warmth use
Electric Healers
economical and sate
There’s a whole new warm approach to winter with an Electric Heater from
Anthony Horderns’ famous Electrical Centre. We have the largest range in
Sydney and all are famous brands ... all streamlined, economical and safe!
Terms, of coure, are the easiest in Sydney! Gome to Anthony Horderns’ first
give your winter-living a lift with a reliable Electrical Heater. Electrical
Centre, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
A. The Vulcan Canray Heater with the
amazing Spread-Heat principle that gives
you maximum warmth. £l6/10, or 5/1 wk.
B. The H.M.V. Cavendish Heater lor
circulated warmth. £lB/18/-, or 5/10 wk.
C. The Dimplex plug-in Central Heating,
Thermostatically controlled. Priced
from only £35/5/-, or 5/9 weekly.
D. The Super-Glow bed heater for cosy
warmth, complete with transformer.
Handy size. Priced at only £B/2/6.
E. Westinghouse Space-heater, with ex-
clusive new heating principle heats
every corner of room. £l6/16/-, 5/2 wkly.
F. The Masterberry English Electric
Fire priced at only £37/14/-, or 6/1 wkly.
G. The Hecla Macedon Fire at £l4/13/-,
or 476 weekly. A most attractive unit.
H. The Ocean Oil filled Portable Elec-
tric Heater. £3B/17/6 or 5/11 weekly.
I. The Kosyaire Air-Heater —circulator
type. Priced at £25/10/-, or 7/8 weekly.
/. The Rayvue infra red lamp. £9/10/-.
We offer you the best terms
No Deposit!
or 5% interest with deposit
Anthony Horderns’ make it easy for you to own a new Electric
Heater, for our terms are arranged to suit and help every budget.
Come in and choose one today, on no deposit or 5% interest.
"TRUTH:IN ADVERTISING
1
80951
POST ALL MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE 80951


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3985
Wednesday, June 27, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
LET'S FACE IT
MR. MENZIES’S articles in London “Times” have
aroused more than ordinary interest in the United
Kingdom and added to the speculation here about
his future.
Some people interpret his writings on the eve
of the Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ Conference
as the first step towards removing himself to another
and larger sphere in which, rumor has suggested, he
will become an official organiser of the British
Commonwealth in the shape of a British Minister
with a seat in the Lords, or a super-ambassador
with Empire cohesion and co-ordination as his job.
Regarding the British Commonwealth in its
present shrinking condition, with bits dropping-off
all round the globe, nobody would be likely to envy
him or anybody else such a task. If he is to tackle
it he has a courage which runs beyond mere
consideration of his own reputation. He certainly
would be vitally useful at home, for it becomes
more apparent every day the Federal Parliament
has functioned that without him at the moment
there is no focus to the Government’s efforts.
At the same time, the immediate future of
the British Commonwealth is a matter for grave
concern, and unless its cohesive interests and
resources are marshalled it seems that it may
break-up further. Already India is only a token-
member with a policy at variance from that of the
bulk of the English-speaking Commonwealth
nations. Pakistan is nearly in the same state. Ceylon
has moved over swiftly to the Left, and the mdin
objective of the Bandaranaike Government seems
to be to swing into the Asian group of “neutrals”
with a leaning towards Iron Curtain tutelage as
quickly as it can be managed. Burma is gradually
being manoeuvred into the Communist bloc. There
is no great hope for Malaya. While it certainly
will be held as the central habitat of Seato in peace-
time, the defending of the Malayan peninsula in
actual warfare presents almost insoluble problems.
Most members of the British Commonwealth
are inwardly hostile to South Africa, and that dour
Dutch-run Dominion is slipping towards independ-
ence as fast as it can under the strain of constant
and world-wide criticism. Its native policy is being
used very cunningly by the Communists all over
the world to stir up enmity not only against the
South African Union Government but against all
British-based Governments in Africa. It seems
only a matter of time before all the new Central
and North African colonies will go the way of the
Sudan.
Meanwhile, in other areas there is unobtrusive
effort designed to strengthen the links between the
great white Dominions and the United States. The
Canadian Government, which rarely has had cause
to include the word “crisis” in its vocabulary, has
recently had to face raging opposition in Parlia-
ment as the result of its decision to subsidise a U.S.
organisation to build an oil-pipeline in the
Dominion. The British Government has acknow-
ledged that it can do next to nothing about the
transfer of the Trinidad oil-industry to American
interests. Mr. Harold Macmillan has said bluntly
that Trinidad is well on the way towards being a
self-governing State, and if it wants to sell its assets
to an American company there is little or nothing
the British Government can do about it, even though
the Trinidad Oil Company has property in the
United Kingdom and in Canada as well as on its
native soil.
In the U.K. the position is being faced with a
bitter realism which is hard to swallow at a time
when smiling villains of Moscow are rubbing their
hands and hoping to move into English-speaking
countries as the friends-in-need. They profess to
have all the solutions ready to serve-up at the right
time to embittered and disillusioned voters of the
new generation who have begun to believe since
the war that permanent prosperity and full-
employment are permanent facts of Nature.
“The Times,” in discussing the Trinidad
position a few days ago, said in a leader: —
The plain fact is that the economy of Great
Britain is in such a state that we aye no longer
able either to retain the [British] Commonwealth
investments we would like, or to make sufficient
fresh investments to develop the backward areas
to the degree that is needed. This is a bitter
fact to face, as faced it must be when American
interests step in. The high rate of taxation and
the fiscal treatment of British companies operating
abroad are directly inimical to the kind of Com-
monwealth development to which lip-service is
paid.
Australia is not immune from the propaganda
and financial pressure and temptations which are
tending to weaken British Commonwealth ties. It
is being continually suborned, and with some
reason, to co-ordinate its defence with that of the
Americans, to introduce American weapons into
the armed forces. American capital is increasingly
finding its way into Australian enterprise. As com-
munication across the Pacific becomes easier and
swifter and the links which tie us up with Europe are
being snapped one by one, this country shows a
tendency to slide towards Washington. The trend
is being accelerated by the development of a critical
press which is published simultaneously on each
side of the Pacific and which sees most things
through American eyes. There is even a weekly
edition of the “New York Times” foreign-affairs
supplement which is published in Melbourne. And
the Sydney Sunday papers regularly publish supple-
ments on news abroad which are slanted from the
American viewpoint.
The whole matter is one which merits British
discussion and planning. There are going on for
80,000,000 whites in the strictly British countries
alone, and these form a virile, well-fed, ingenious
and enterprising bloc which can write itself down
as superior to most nations in strength and power
of development provided it sticks together as a
unit and plans in unity.
But the beating-out of a united policy is not
an easy matter at a time when the United Kingdom
is fighting for its economic existence and is being
submarined in a sea of inflation by workers who
can’t be made to see, even by their own union-
leaders, the dangers of the inflationary spiral which
is being built up to tornado-strength by constant
demands for more pay and less work.
Also, it is difficult while countries like Aus-
tralia watch their overseas assets dwindling and
foreign traders beating them in British markets
where buyers can’t afford to indulge in a policy
guided by sentiment.
If Mr. Menzies can set the ball rolling for the
creation of a co-ordinating body which will try to
produce integrating trade, development and defence
policies and manage them in such a way as to
clear-up the frictions which are constantly obvious,
his name will go down in British history.
It is something which undoubtedly should be
attempted. And it is vital that it should be
attempted before the drift goes too far. It is fast
becoming a blunt question not of new benefits but
of the ability of the British white nations to survive
and maintain anything like their present standards.
Higher Fares Don't Please
PUBLIC-TRANSPORT troubles are not peculiar
to Sydney or N. S. Wales; Government trams and
buses in other States are also a sources of head-
aches and heartaches to their controllers. But in
no other State is the record of deficits so consistent
or of such magnitude. The transport services of
Sydney and Newcastle have shown a loss in every
year since the war; in each of the last four years
the loss has exceeded £3 million, and for the current
year it is expected to> be more than £4 million. It
used to be the fashion to blame the trams for the
loss and to say that things would be better when
the modern trams (250 ordered in 1948) made their
presence felt and when more tram-services had
been converted to bus-services. The new trams
had been promised for the end of 1951 at an
estimated cost of £8273 each. In 1952 the order
was reduced to 100; the ultimate cost worked-out
at £16,545 each. Meanwhile the number of buses
has grown steadily. There are now more buses
than trams in commission, and they cover from
two-and-a-half to three times the annual mileage of
the trams —yet the losses are bigger than ever.
Compared with the peak-year 1944-45 the
number of tram-passengers has been halved and
the number of bus-passengers doubled. Last year
192 million passengers travelled by tram and 218
million by bus, but the combined total, 410 million,
was a long way below the 552 million carried in
1944-45. The Commissioner for Government
Transport, in his last report, explained the decline
by saying that during the war years “certain city
bus-routes were operated as feeder-services to
trams,” and that passengers using the services were
thus counted twice. He further mentioned the large
numbers of servicemen using city transport during
the war. but cited as undoubtedly the major factor
for the decline the increased use of privately-owned
cars and motor-cycles:—
This usage often includes the operation of
cars by owners for their own transport and the
transport of workmates to and from work, the
owner accepting payment for service rendered to
his workmates; although this practice is unlawful
it is one which is very difficult to prevent.
The commissioner quoted the huge increase in
motor-car registrations and also recalled that petrol-
rationing greatly restricted the use of cars in the
earlier period. He pointed out that even with
the drop last year’s level of passenger-transport
exceeded that of 1938-39, the last complete pre-
war year. The argument is sound enough as far
as it goes—the Harbor Bridge toll-figures bear out
his claims for the increase in motor-traffic —but
the population of Sydney and Newcastle has
increased by more than 600,000 since 1938, and,
in view of the overcrowded public transport at
peak periods, one shudders to think what the
position would be if private cars didn’t draw-off
some of the surplus.
It was perhaps not wise of the commissioner
to draw attention to 1938-39, because in that year
the services were still being run at a profit. Still, an
interesting graph in his report, showing a dissection
of his department’s expenditure, demonstrates
clearly the basic reason for the change. In 1938-39
of every £1 collected in fares 3s. was absorbed by
interest-charges, 4s. lid. by materials and services
and 12s. by wages. In 1954-55 the interest-burden
(which “Labor” politicians claim is the main cause
of losses) was down to Is. lid.; materials and
services were unchanged at 4s. lid.; wages called
for 18s. lid.
This, of course, is no new story. Everyone
knows that wages have risen steeply since 1939.
But in no other industry has the rise, in proportion
to revenue, been so great. It is not that revenue has
stood still since 1939. Nothing like it! Tram- and
bus-fares were increased in July, 1947; November,
1948; October, 1950, and November. 1951. The
total increase was 114 per cent.; tramwaymen’s
wages have increased by 248 per cent.: —
The principal factors responsible for this
large increase were higher wage-rates as a result
of basic-wage and marginal increases and the pay-
ment of more liberal penalty-rates. The amount
of work actually being performed per employee is,
on the other hand, substantially less because of
the forty-hour week and increases in the periods
of annual and long-service leave... .Whilst the
average annual wages-payment per employee
increased by 248 per cent., the average income
from fares and suchlike per employee increased
by only 129 per cent, over the same period.
“Suchlike” includes a Government subsidy of
over £1 million, credited in last year’s accounts.
No corresponding payment was made in 1938-39.
The position described by the commissioner last
year was bad enough, but basic-wage increases
granted at the instance of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment have aggravated it since.
The commissioner is emphatic that weekend
services at penalty-rates are a major contributor to
deficits; for the year 1954-55 he puts the loss on
this score at £1,607,000, accounted for by higher
wages-costs (time-and-a-half on Saturdays and
double-time on Sundays), lighter passenger-
loadings and wasteful standing-time at sporting-
fixtures and beach-resorts. Although the report
doesn’t say so, weekend penalty-rates are the result
of political pressure brought to bear on the Cahill
Government by the transport-unions. Weekend
work is not overtime; it is part of the 40-hour week,
and equivalent time is given off during the week.
So little is it regarded as a penalty that strikes have
been threatened through men feeling they were not
getting their fair share of it.
Other factors mentioned as contributing to
deficits include the long-drawn-out dispute over
one-man buses; non-collection of fares; the aggra-
vated peak-hour problem; the slowing-down of
services through traffic-congestion. None of these
are new problems; the commissioner’s annual
reports have been commenting on them for years.
The one-manner argument could have been settled
long ago by firm Government action; it will be
settled now if the Cahills don’t back-down from
the stand they have belatedly taken. The fare-
collection ratio has improved, but there’s still room
for betterment. A simple move which might help
would be the introduction of season-tickets —always
opposed by the Sydney authorities, though success-
fully applied in other cities. The other two items
are bound-up with city-parking and the opening-
and closing-hours of shops and offices. Stricter
enforcement of parking-laws and an attempt to
stagger hours could mitigate their effect but not
eliminate it.
The commissioner can suggest no real remedy
for deficits other than higher fares, and this is the
step the Government is now taking. If it had had
the courage to face facts it would have done this
two years ago; the main rise in costs came not in
1954-56, but in 1951-53, and the commissioner
stressed the necessity for higher fares in his 1953
report.
Premier Cahill now concedes the importance .
of treating transport as a business; his conversion''
amounts to an admission that he has been playing
politics with it till now. High fares will be
unpopular, but this fact may force an inquiry into
the whole conduct of public transport —few people
outside the department doubt that there is plenty
of room for economies in the system. If fares had
been raised two years ago reform might have come
earlier, putting a brake on mounting costs, and. in
any case, consolidated revenue would not have had
to bolster-up the system with millions badly needed
for the extension of schools and hospitals.


TWO-ARMED VERSUS ONE-ARMED


PLAIN ENGLISH
Government by Union
The shearers’ strike and the attitude of
the A.C.T.U. to the new Stevedoring Act
are a challenge to Governments to prove
to some industrial and political elements
that this country still has a Constitution
and laws which must be obeyed.
The unions have won great privileges
which they certainly would never have
got in any of the Red totalitarian coun-
tries, but they haven’t earned the
right to subvert the laws, to override
the judgments of courts or to counsel
disorder and resistance to properly con-
stituted authority.
The A.W.U. throughout the wool-
season has been maintaining an illegal
strike at a time when the Common-
wealth can’t afford to have its export-
income cut-down by stoppages intended
to bludgeon the courts and the com-
munity. The union has done nothing to
prevent the use of violence by the strikers
against the effects of a principle which
they themselves established.
The A.C.T.U. carries A.W.U. prin-
ciples of force a stage further. The
waterside-industry is run under the influ-
ence of a Communist-led union whose
heads openly avow their admiration of
Russian Communist principles and whose
every turn and twist of policy follows
the lead of Moscow. From the evidence
given before the N.S.W. State Industrial
Commissioners on the application of
Ernest Thornton for readmission to the
Ironworkers’ Federation it was made clear
that where there was Communist leader-
ship of a union the policy of that union
is directed by the Central Committee of
the Communist party. And the C.P. is
concerned not with maintaining private
enterprise but primarily with destroying
the Australian system of government.
The Waterside Workers’ Federation
has had the right to determine who shall
work in the industry, conditionally on
its providing an effective labor-force to
man the wharves and get the work of
shipping done efficiently. It has ignored
the claims of efficiency and economy. It
has been lawless, has encouraged loaf
and has kept its closed-corporation labor-
force at a minimum and under an iron
discipline in order to control the wharves
for the Communist leaders’ purposes. At
the same time the leaders have used the
law to its full limit whenever they have
been able to gain anything by so doing.
The new Stevedoring Industry Act is
not in any way oppressive. It still leaves
the provision of labor to the union, whose
members have just acquired, through the
operation of arbitration, changes in pay
and conditions which will add £4 million
to the wharf-wages bill in the next year,
an amount which may have to be
recouped by increases in fares and
freights.
All the Act provides is that if the
union doesn’t keep its agreement to pro-
vide sufficient labor casual labor may be
engaged. This menaces nobody in the
industry if the W.W.F. is prepared to
carry out its agreement with the com-
munity. But since the Communist leaders
have no intention of doing the fair thing
or of carrying-out any undertaking if it
interferes with their dictatorship, they
propose a nationwide strike to prevent the
law which has been passed by the national
Parliament from being put into effect.
Authority to act was given to the
A.C.T.U. by a special union congress in
Melbourne, which unanimously carried
an intimidatory resolution declaring any
man who joined a supplementary labor-
force without union consent to be an
“industrial renegade,” who would be
blackballed and denied a living by the
whole union-movement.
But this is not all. The A.C.T.U. has
decided to call an intimidatory “stop-
work” of 1,000,000 workers (who will
lose £3,000,000 to £5,000,000 thereby,
apart from the loss to industry) to try to
bludgeon the community into further
wage-rises and the restoration of C-series
wage-adjustments of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court.
The A.C.T.U., in fact, has accepted
the right to govern the country industrially
and is willing that the Communist union-
leaders should govern sea-transport.
It is all the more necessary that the
Government should begin to take a firmer
stand instead of parleying with lawless-
ness because the Federal Opposition is
undoubtedly trying to establish a theory,
despite the fact that it is defeated at
election after election, that only “Labor”
has the right to govern and that every
effort must be made in conjunction with
the trade-unions and the Communist bloc
to prevent any Government elected in
opposition to “Labor” from carrying-
out its mandates.
More Productivity—How?
“In the ACT”: Greater production of
commodities and of manufactured goods
for export is being advocated constantly
from the front-benches of Parliament
House and by the departmental econo-
mists who lecture at home almost as
frequently as they travel abroad.
The major incentive of production, of
course, is still profit—profit for the
employer and profit for the worker in
industry. Few people would go to the
trouble and risk of exporting merely from
patriotism if there were no reward
attached. So —what is the Government
doing to increase the attractiveness of
export, not merely by insuring against
any financial risks abroad but by making
the extra effort and risk worth while to
the exporters, large and small?
Mr. Menzies, when seeking office in
1949, spoke of profit-sharing schemes,
and incentive-payments, and employer-
employee consultations; he added, in
his bid for the votes of those who also
recognised the essential nature of
expanded production, “We believe in
these things, and will encourage them to
the limit of our powers.”
He went on to speak of aspects of
efficient management, and said, “We will
encourage such work in every way.”
During the nearly seven years which has
elapsed these words have been recalled
from time to time, and there has been a
tendency to stress the limitation of powers
(as applying, for example, to differential
taxation designed to encourage exporting)
rather than to emphasise the positive
measures which the Government could
well have investigated and instituted.
Industry itself has progressed, with
improved processes and products and
better organisation, but it is still subject
to the high level of Australian costs for
which the Government must take a sub-
stantial measure of responsibility. The
withdrawal into the public service of
more and more people who would other-
wise have been available for production
and who would have prevented the
growth of wasteful overfull employment
is one phase only of this problem.
There is little indication that “the
service” is to be subjected to the stimulus
of automation, defined as “the introduc-
tion of apparatus to take over routine
processes of hand and brain,” although
there must be tens of thousands of public
servants in this country whose place
could well be taken by machines.
In private industry automation is one
of the means of reducing costs to com-
petitive levels, and thus of securing some
of the export-markets which are opening-
up, especially in the adjacent Asiatic
countries. What is the Government doing
to facilitate investment in modern
mechanical installations by firms which
have been deprived of adequate deprecia-
tion-allowances, and which even now are
being given no secure undertaking on
that vital aspect of installing new equip-
ment? Does the Government want to
see new machinery installed which will
cheapen costs and reduce the damaging
stranglehold by some unions over vital
manufacturing processes? Does it wish
to maintain belief that it really wishes to
encourage and foster private enterprise?
If so, what encouragement is it now
offering, and what more does it propose
to offer? There is a new Budget due
about August or September.
End of a Session
The Federal Parliamentary session ended
last week with the Prime Minister abroad
for three months and the leader of the
House of Representatives about to leave
his Ministry and his safe seat to take
over the High Commissionership in
London.
It was recorded that the sittings were
the longest in the first half of a year
since 1902. The statistics of the meetings
formed an index to the manner in which
Parliamentary business is now done.
In 50 sitting-days covering a total of
471 hours Parliament had passed 57 bills,
including some very important ones, and
dealt with all the incidental business of
questions, Ministerial statements, debates
on reports and adjournments.
It achieved this performance in Houses
in which the Opposition fought tooth-
and-nail against every measure, calling
for the application of the gag in the Reps,
on an average \\ times per sitting and for
202 divisions, mostly time-wasting.
The manner in which business is done
in the Senate is shown by the fact that
on the last day it passed through some
stage or stages
the Stevedoring Industry Bill, Conciliation
and Arbitration Bill, Public Service Arbitra-
tion Bill, Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric
Power Bill, Navigation Bill, A.C.T.
Supreme Court Bill, Evidence Bill, Judges’
Pensions Bill, Northern Territory (Admini-
stration) Bill, Coal Industry Bill, National
Health Bill, Cellulose-acetate Flake-bounty
Bill and Rayon-yarn Bounty Bill, States
Grants (Universities) Bill, Tractor-bounty
Bill, States Grants (Coalmining Long-
Service Leave) Bill and Supply and
Appropriation Bills.
Yet it had time for some drama over
the Stevedoring Industry Bill. There was
scarcely time for the Senate to see
measures whizz-by, much less give any
of them the slightest attention, except
when they were at a formal stage.
The date of the next sitting of Parlia-
ment has yet to be fixed. It depends
largely on Menzies’s plans and negotia-
tions. But the Parliament will certainly
meet again in a soberer world than at
present, with more trade problems and
with a changed and more difficult inter-
national situation.
It is to be hoped that the Prime
Minister will have the Ministry consoli-
dated and reconstructed in time to bring
down a well-considered Budget.
Poker-machines in Clubs
The Pubs v. Clubs war in N. S. Wales
advanced another stage last week when
the pubs won a skirmish in the Licensing
Court on the issue of poker-machines.
The Licensing Bench upheld the pubs’
claim that club-members playing the
machines were in fact gambling; it
rejected the defence plea that they were
merely taking money out of one pocket
(individually) and putting it in another
(collectively). In consequence the clubs
named in the test-case were warned that
their liquor-licences would not be
renewed after June 30 unless they got rid
of the machines. And what applies to
those clubs applies to every club in
N.S.W. that attempts to augment its
revenue by employing a one-armed
bandit.
Pending an appeal, the machines have
been clicking merrily on and no one
seems really to believe that they’ll be
banned. A bill to legalise them in the
event of the failure of the appeal is
believed to be ready for passing. It’s to
be hoped it includes a provision limiting
the percentage a club can take from the
machines ; many of them have been mak-
ing it rather too willing. Another
sensible reform would be an insistence
that the clubs should own all the
machines on their premises ; hiring from
outsiders should be forbidden.
A rumored feature of the legislation
which should not be agreed to is a pro-
posal to tax each machine from £lOO to
£5OO a year; one estimate is that this
would bring in £200,000 a year. There is
a case for a small licence-fee to cover
costs of inspection and of policing the
proper testing of the machines —by the
Weights and Measures people, not by the
police. But there’s no case for a
revenue-tax. Although the Licensing
Court has rejected the out-of-one-pocket-
into-another argument, that is the ground
on which the Government has tolerated
the machines in non-proprietary clubs
and there only. Why then tax the
transfer?
The clubs will be very foolish to accept
their permits with a tax as a quid pro quo.
Once that tax starts some bright “Labor”
Treasurer will see the opportunity of
turning the £200,000 into £2 million, by
licensing machines in pubs as well.
o-
Not So Good in Paradise
The latest from Moscow is that the
Communist bloc of nations may soon be
replaced by “a loose grouping of Com-
munist nations on the lines of the British
Commonwealth.”
The new scheme appears to be as
tortuous as most of those that come out
of the Kremlin. On the whole, the idea
seems to be designed to meet specific and
difficult cases. It is meant to forestall
attempts by some restive Communist-6/oc
countries to become more independent.
It is also designed to save the face, in
particular, of Marshal Tito and to enable
him to enter once more into close rela-
tions with Moscow without technically
becoming part of the Red bloc. It is, too,
obviously a preliminary to the wooing
of the Arab countries and Burma with
a view to bringing them into the Red
fold.
The world is entering on a fresh phase
in the history of Communism. Apart
from the Yugoslav position, in which
Russia is prepared to compromise in
order to secure friendly relations and
common policy with a country that can
provide it with a corridor to the Medi-
terranean, it is finding itself with new
problems on its hands. Some arise out
of the natural desire of the East Germans
to reunite with West Germany. Some
out of the task of continuing to live with
China \yithout coming into conflict with
its policy and interests in Asia.
Combined with these problems is that
of continuing to propagate the doctrine
of world-revolution in Western countries,
where the Communist advance-guards
have been stunned by admissions that
the “Workers’ Only Fatherland” of Com-
munist legend has actually been a dark
and bloody prison during the years when
it has been held up as the prototype
inspiration to gentle preachers of the
brotherhood-of-man everywhere.
One thing which hasn’t helped much is
the revelation of the level of Russian
population, which turns out to be only
about 202,000,000 instead of the
240,000,000 which most estimators
reckoned it would be.
All is not well in Paradise, as signs
continue to indicate.
Melbourne's Big Show
“Collins St.’' puts into print his con-
scientious round-up of Melbourne’s
approaching big fortnight, but with
statistics, etc., subject to change within
a week or two:
Each week there are changes in the faces the
main Olympic stadiums turn to travellers along
Melbourne main suburban railway-lines, grow-
ing reminders of the imminence of the XVI
Olympiad, from November 22 to December 8.
“The Games” have become a reality for Mel-
bourne after all the early wrangling that so
disturbed the International Olympic Committee,
a naive body of middle-aged gentlemen who
could not understand that this was the boisterous
way of getting cracking in sporting, civic and
Government circles in Melbourne.
Hundreds of people are working in quiet
suites of offices in various parts of the city. Not
a great deal is seen or heard of them, aside
from spokesmen for various activities to the
press; but the £4-million Olympic construction-
programme is close to completion.
Next month the triple-deck steel-and-concrete
stand at the Melbourne Cricket Ground—
Olympic officials refer to the wonderful old
ground now as the Main Stadium —will be
finished. It will hold 40,000 itself, and the rest
of the stands 80,000, but seating, probably for
the privileged, has been rearranged to give a
total for the Olympics of 110,000.
John Wren’s old reserve, Olympic Park, is no
longer a misnomer. The superstructure of the
new indoor swimming-and-diving stadium rises
like a huge butterfly’s wings from one corner.
About 5500 spectators will be accommodated
in 13 bays around the pool, only a part,
unfortunately, of the number who wish to see
the swimming-sports. In other corners are
the athletics- and Soccer-ground, which has
a new cinders-track, has already been used for
international athletics, and will accommodate
about 35,000 for the Soccer preliminaries; the
hockey-ground, with a small stand and banked
accommodation for 20,000 which is almost com-
plete, and a cycling velodrome with a 3331-
metre track.
West Melbourne Stadium, another and much
more profitable colony in Wren’s former
(<Continued on next page)
Light in Tasmania
The Bulletin was pleased, and mildly
alarmed, to learn in a programme from
the Adult Education Board of Tasmania
that on May 20, at the studious hour of
10 a.m., Mr. T. Inglis Moore, Mr. Leslie
Greener and Mr. J. Horner were to
lecture to a “Writer’s Workshop” at The
Springs Hotel, Mt. Wellington, Hobart,
on “Stories and Poems in The Bulletin
of May 16, 1956.”
A hasty glance at that issue revealed
that there happened to be no poems at
all in it —which must have made the
lecture very easy. And though there
were a couple of stories —a faithful bit of
Australiana by Eric Irvin and an amusing
sketch of Maori schoolchildren by
“Pakeha”—perhaps it would be as well
to suggest, if it is not too late (as it is),
that some other issue might have been
chosen. Perhaps, after all, it was.
But though The Bulletin, had it been
forewarned, might have made a more
impressive contribution, the occasion for
the lectures still calls for remark: it was
what is called a “pilot project,” initiated
by the Commonwealth Literary Fund, to
carry Australian literature into the
country towns . . . the idea being that
lectures in the universities are all very
well, but university-students are supposed
to take an interest in literature anyhow,
and the great need, if Australian books
are really to be absorbed into the national
consciousness (and widely sold), is to
have someone talk about them where they
are not so well known.
Tasmania was not chosen for the “pilot
project” because it was supposed to do
less reading than the other States —very
likely it does more —but because it
happens to have a particularly efficient
Adult Education Board, directed by the
energetic Mr. K. G. Brooks. Mr. Brooks
arranged for Mr. Inglis Moore a pro-
gramme, no doubt mild by T.A.E.B.
standards, which involved practically
incessant lecturing for three weeks from
one end of the island to the other: as a
result of which, presumably, the Speck is
now shining like a crystal with culture.
And a very good thing, too.
If the scheme succeeds it is proposed
to extend it to other States. And if that
happens The Bulletin will try to publish
a poem at the right time.


empire, which was destroyed by fire recently,
will be ready in September to seat about 8000 for
the gymnastic competitions; and in various
other buildings in other sections of the city—
efforts have been made to avoid traffic conges-
tion whenever possible—fencing, basketball,
wrestling and weight-lifting will be adequately
housed, with yachting on Port Phillip Bay,
hunting at wooded Oaklands, shooting at
Williamstown and rowing and canoeing at
Lake Wendouree, 77 miles away at Ballarat.
A majority of the 10,000 overseas and 20,000
inter-State visitors to the Games will be placed
in private homes and will pay about 30s. a head
for bed-and-breakfast. As Melburnians are
unusually generous and hospitable, this tariff,
or the number of meals it covers, is not taken
over-seriously. Already 15,000 private beds
have been offered. A few hotels have reserved
rooms exclusively for overseas visitors.
Competitors and officials will be housed at
Olympic Village, which consists of 850 brick
and concrete houses and flats at Heidelberg,
about eight miles from the M.C.G., and will
have all services up to doctors and dentists.
It is not yet complete, and will cost £2,700,000.
Melbourne families move in when the athletes
move out.
Providing facilities for the press has been one
of the most onerous of all the tasks of the
Olympic officials, but the Post Office has done a
magnificent job. About 1000 overseas and Aus-
tralian journalists, broadcasters and photo-
graphers will cover the Games, and there will
be 50 soundproof recording-studios at the
M.C.G. alone. The inevitable row about
television-rights is now in progress.
Seventy-three countries have accepted invita-
tions to send teams. Among the committees
functioning in Melbourne is a civic one,
endeavoring to make the city the best-decorated
and most-festive in the history of the Games.
(Most other venues have taken them in their
stride.) Cultural pursuits and the' arts have
been encouraged (for once) for the occasion to
provide a variety of entertainment, aside from
that likely to follow the gathering' of sections
of the navies of seven nations in Port Phillip.
More than 500,000 tickets still are available—
there were 700,000 unsold early last month.
Events booked-out are the opening ceremony,
last four nights of basketball, boxing-finals, two
finals nights of the track-cycling and the
wrestling-finals. Plenty of seats are available
for the hockey and Soccer, and 100,000 are still
unsold for track and field events.
Only a few seats are available for the closing
ceremony, but every day at the M.C.G. 45,000
tickets will be sold at the gates. It should be
possible to catch an early plane in Hobart,
Sydney or Adelaide, at least of the capitals, and
get into that day’s Games without having
booked.
The swimming seats were sold almost as they
opened. Some Melburnians booked for the
swimming events through relatives in London,
but this avenue is probably closed now, too.
Overseas booking is light, but 40,000 seats
already have been taken from Maoriland. Top
prices are £3 4s. a day down to unreserved
standing at 6s. 7d. The best places in Australia
to inquire about tickets are the banks, and out
of Australia at Dalgety’s, Union Steamship,
American Express, Qantas, K.L.M. and similar
alert organisations.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament rose for the winter
recess in the cold, early hours of Friday
morning. When it meets again for the
Budget session in August the new Senate
will be functioning, with 30 Government
members and 30 Opposition (including
two balance-of-power Anti-Communist
“Labor” Senators).
• •
The Reds, who are now so busy proving
that their late leader was such a bad egg,
must be hoping that they, too, will be
lucky enough to die before they’re found
out.
• •
Cahill has appointed a competent and
respected actuary-accountant, E. S.
Wolfenden, to decide whether Parlia-
mentary salaries should be increased. But
does the question really call for a
competent and respected actuary-
accountant? Surely any elector could
supply the answer?
• •
Liberia was once reputed to have an
army in which every man was an officer
We haven’t quite reached that condition
here, but according to Army Minister
Cramer officers and N.C.O.s in the Aus-
tralian Regular Army outnumber privates.
If the recruiting position doesn’t improve
we’ll soon have an army of officers
efficient in every respect except that
they’ve never had the experience of
handling men.
• •
L. P. Diplock, M.L.A. for Condamine,
has been chosen to fill the Cabinet
vacancy caused by the resignation of
Queensland Mines Minister Foley. He
takes over the Education portfolio from
G. H. Devries, who becomes Minister
for Mines.
o •
N. S. Wales has “reluctantly”—the
word is Cahill’s —accepted the new Com-
monwealth States Housing Agreement.
The reluctance is due to the higher
interest-rate and the obligation to allo-
cate 20 per cent, of the loan-money to
building-societies. This diversion, com-
plains the Premier, will mean that “750
fewer Housing Commission homes will
be built for people in low- and moderate-
income groups who have no hope of
getting a home through building-
societies.”
What Cahill ignores is that the money
which would have built those 750 Com-
mission homes will, with the help of the
deposits of those who have been waiting
for building-society loans, build far more
than that number of homes. Surely that is
a gain to the people of N.S.W.? Most
people think so, but in Socialist reckon-
ing one home built by a Government
authority is better than two built by any
other means.
It seems to be a basic tenet of the
“Labor” approach to the housing
problem that a person without a penny
to bless himself with is, for that very
reason, much more deserving of a home
than one who has saved-up a deposit in
hopes of'building. Members of building-
societies are not wealthy people; they
belong to the moderate- and low-income
groups for which Cahill professes such
concern.
• •
N. S. Wales Rural Bank president
McKerihan’s forecasts are usually opti-
mistic and optimists are usually popular.
But his latest thought won’t gain him
many friends; he suggests, as a counter
to inflation, a 20 per cent, cut in wages,
costs, prices, interest and profits. Still,
if nothing else, it’s good to see
someone at last who tacitly acknowledges
the merit of the Premiers’ Plan of 1931.
• •
I Some foretaste, perhaps, of the excite-
ment which the Senate may offer later in
the year to the political “fans” in Can-
berra was provided last week, when two
Government Senators, R. Wright (Tas.)
and H. S. Seward (W.A.), announced their
objections to the Stevedoring Bill. For
several hours there was a prospect of the
measure being defeated. There was
gloomy talk of the second-reading being
deferred until this week, so that Senators
who had fled to distant States to escape
the ten degrees of frost in the capital
could be recalled. “Labor” flew Senator
Donald Cameron back from Melbourne,
just in case ; but when the crucial vote was
taken Wright and Seward walked-out
rather than give Healy and his cohorts
a present of a defeated bill. The second-
reading was carried by 24 votes to 23.
• •
In the probable hope of impressing
M.P.s as well as paying patrons with the
excellence and varied nature of the postal
service, and of inducing youngsters to
enter the service, the P.M.G. has just
issued a well-produced booklet on the
organisation and management of his far-
flung department. It is a useful and
impressive job, but it remains to be seen
whether the recipient of an unduly
delayed letter or a telephone-subscriber
receiving his bill will be sufficiently
placated by reading of “the manner in
which the department operates with the
object of providing speedy and efficient
services in the most economical way.”
• •
Tentative suggestions are being con-
sidered in Canberra for selected public
servants to be seconded to private
industry for a year, possibly with some
WHEN WINTER COMES!
Government subsidy for their salaries,
and with preservation of their superan-
nuation rights. If adopted, the plan would
have a proviso that the officials should
not leave the service for a specified term
of years—to prevent smart men being
seized by their private employers. The
sponsors of the idea claim that the public
service would gain by finding-out how
the other half lives and works.
• •
A resolution passed at the annual
conference of the N.S.W. Country party
decided to ask the N.S.W. Government
to hold a referendum to test public
opinion on new States. No harm in
asking, but there’s not much likelihood of
a vote being taken while the Cahills are
in power.
It was pointed out at the conference
that about a score of local-government
authorities in northern N.S.W. had
already held referendums which showed
that more than 70 per cent, of electors
in that area wanted to form a new State.
Further, a royal commission long ago
recommended New England as an area
suitable for Self-government.
• •
The Country party’s complimentary
dinner in Sydney to Earle Page on his
“retirement” on June. 22 brought out an
astonishing residue of old associates,
including Sir Charles Bickerton Black-
burn, under whom he served his hospital
apprenticeship after passing first on the
list in his year, and Sir John Latham, his
only colleague of the Bruce-Page Ministry
present. Fadden, who proposed his
health, and Eric Harrison were there.
The odd thing is that the Doc. shows no
real sign of retiring.
• •
Local Communist commissars have
“unanimously approved” the Moscow
attacks on “the cult of the individual.”
A statement issued by the central com-
mittee of the Australian Communist
party, grovelling in the new-look Moscow
line, admits that
believing all that was said crediting all the
great Socialist achievements to Stalin’s
wisdom, we were caught-up in and
influenced by the myth of Stalin’s
infallibility. . . . Under the influence of the
cult of the individual there had been
dogmatic uncritical acceptance of and
propagation of all Stalin’s theories, some
of which have now been revealed as
incorrect.
The honest fellows, it appears, were also
misled by the “intrigues of the traitor
Beria, which led to the breach with
Yugoslavia and to violations of Socialist
justice.” However, apparently no great
harm has been done. This is probably
due to the innate goodness of the leaders
of the movement here, gigantic portraits
of whom were carried, in the best tradi-
tion of the cult of the individual, in the
last May Day procession in Sydney.
• •
Describing uniform taxation as the
greatest blow ever struck at the States,
N.S.W. Country-party leader Bruxner
reminded Premier Cahill that it was a
“Labor” Government which deprived the
States of their taxing authority. With
Loan Council season here again Cahill
will no doubt put up his customary sham
fight against the system which enables
him to put all the blame for his admini-
strative mess on the shoulders of the
Federal Government.
• •
In the year just closing the Federal
Government subsidised State works out of
revenue to the tune of £67 million to
close the gap between the £l9O million
loan-figure fixed by the Loan Council and
the amount of loan-money actually raised.
This doesn’t suggest that the time has
come for an increased loan-programme.
• •
N.S.W. graziers are having their
wool rejected at railheads on the ground
that it is black. Transport Minister
Enticknap disowns responsibility, saying
that no instructions have been given to
refuse to handle the wool. He refuses to
grant permits for road-hauliers to handle
it, because it hasn’t been proved to his
satisfaction that it can’t be transported
by rail. That is dodging the issue.
The railways, like any other employer,
are responsible for the actions of their
staff. If railwaymen are refusing to
handle wool, the department must either
support their action or disown it. In
either case the graziers should be free to
seek alternative transport.
Meanwhile, wool which has been
railed to Sydney is apparently checked
on arrival by union officials who decide
whether it is “black.” If so, the truck
is branded “black” and the wool remains
in it. Who authorises this action? Does
the Minister approve it?
• •
“Wusslean”: Answering criticism that
Melbourne’s new suburban trains
provided fewer seats and were therefore
less comfortable, Transport Minister
Warner retorted that they were designed
“to move the maximum number of people
consistent with reasonable comfort,” and
that “the extra space made the standing
passengers more comfortable.” Reason-
able comfort is a matter of opinion;
possibly State Ministers who travel in
State-owned cars have different standards
from commuters. But if the main con-
cern is “moving the maximum number
of people” why not omit seats altogether
and let all passengers stand in reasonable
comfort?
• •
“D.”: Melbourne’s well-heeled City
Council is paying £35,000 to a team of
architects for a scheme for the develop-
ment of the Western Market site because
it has changed its mind and now wants
to lease the site to private operators, if
they can be found. The councillors also
beat the barrier on a start for the
Olympic Stadium when it was intended
for Carlton Oval; that was almost as
sweet for an architects’ team. Arch-
bishop Duhig was ordered by a Supreme
Court jury in Brisbane in 1950 to pay
£25,720 (plus costs) for plans for an
unfinished cathedral to J. F. Hennessy,
a Sydney architect; so it is cheaper to
pay at once, and, better still, to make
up your mind.
"The Bulletin," One Shilling
As announced in last week’s issue, the
price of The Bulletin rises from nine-
pence to a shilling from today’s issue.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
SO they are demolishing the London
Assurance building in Bridge-
street, Sydney. For years I lived next-
door to it and, for one dazzling glimpse
.. L ’r pn f
i ave , e . * uii | .
insurance-business, I shall always cherish
its memory. It was Christmas Eve, anc
hot, and two of the staff were working
back, a clerk and a pietty typist, and
whether it was the sentimental spirit of
the night, or the beat, or mere propin-
quity or long-established tenderness I
know not; but suddenly, as I happened
to glance into their brightly-lit upper-
floor office, they flew into each othei s
arms and there kissed long and ardently.
I haven t, I hasten to aod, the faintest
idea what happened next . . . it was the
single swift snapshot of Christmas Eve
in Sydney that enchanted me. I wonder
where those turtledoves are roosting now.
“MacHoots”
i* *
. ££Tr ~ , »
Griff : Anyway, Vogue, glossiest
of American glozers, in an illustrated
feature on Melbourne in its latest “Olym-
pic Edition,” mentions “the world’s
gentlest river threading through town.”
&
* * $
_ . , . •
Zorok : Fellow I see in the train
every morning comes to work in shirt-
sleeves only—never wears a coat or
cardigan, even in the bleakest of Sydney
weather. He has no more on in the
middle of winter than in summer. But
lately he s become a bit of a sook he
rolls his sleeves down.
A
“N.A.8.”: When Cessnock (N.S.W.),
Red Cross branch had a “day,” a pit-
top collection among district colliery-
workers brought in £179.
“Sparks”: In my early court-reporting
days, I, too, used to wonder why aborers
figured so prominently in court-lists B.
6/6/ 56), until I noticed in the rlrun s-
list the name of a senior member of my
newspaper’s staff, occupation “laborer.”
Seve / al^eeks > closer study revealed that
company-managers, directors, architects
and various other professionals and
tradesmen bad become laborers-at-law.
Result; F j ve -bob bail forfeited and no
p ub ii c jt y . Some erring policemen have
first been chucked out of the service
before being charged and brought before
j be cour { as “laborers”; indeed, a
Laborers’ Party, formed of all who had
qualified in this way during the past
years, would be a party of all the
talents, and of almost unlimited capacity,
*l* ❖ ❖
„ . ~ ~
Narumee”: A Melbourne daily
praised the topicality of an essay set for
pupils of a Geelong school. Theme: “If
I was a Potato.” They say a daily always
knows its own grammar,
♦> ❖ *l*
, ...
. Maybe : Where does milk come
from?” asked the six-year-old. Cows.
“How do the cows get it?” “They eat
the grass to make the milk.” “What do
they eat to make the bottles?” A.C.I.
sba ' es n 0 do ubt.
’
* * *
“Kia-Ora”: Though premature, the
stork’s visit was imminent, and I was
hastened into the only bed available,
j n the public ward, with a screen around.
My husband rushed in as he was,
straight from work. Visit over, the screen
was removed, and the woman opposite
gave me a long, searching look. “Don’t
tell them anything, dearie,” she said,
“Wait and get advice first.” It was a
" I'm confiscating this , and I Want no more frivolity in MY art-class !”
little while before I saw the point: my
husband is a police-sergeant, and I
couldn’t have been looking the brightest.
<s* ♦>
“Geep”: Library-browsing, I blew the
dust off a leather-bound volume with the
title, Proceedings Before and by Direc-
tion of the President Concerning the
Meaning of the Term Whisky. Printed
in 1909 at the Government Printing
Office, Washington, it contained 1325
pages.
“ Goodnight , dear; leave the engine running—my feet are cold."
“Wandana”: Tasmania is equipping its
sleuths with glamor-notebooks. Details
of bookings and what the witnesses saw
will be taken down in natty blue books
with stiff covers, on which is printed, in
gold letters, “Tasmanian Police.” The
C. 1.8. men are to have one type of book,
and the uniform-police another. The
stiff back is expected to improve writing.
There is an almost infinite variety of
means by which curious citizens may get
to see these books at close quarters.
❖ ❖ *
“Bo”: Pierre Balmain might be able
to control his emotion were he to hear
his august maison of the haute coutoure
described as a “frock-shop” ; a vintner
of the choicest champagne could possibly
suppress a shudder at having his pro-
duct referred to as “plonk”; even the
captain of an Atlantic liner might refrain
from wincing when one of the ladies
at his table asks him something about
his “boat.” But drop a pearly tear for
the ultimate in harrowed feelings that
must have shook Professor R. D. Peart,
holder of the Chair of Music at Sydney
University, if he heard that the 31-piece
symphony orchestra which he founded
and conducts was described by Sydney
“Sun-Herald” as “Uni.’s Own Band.”
❖ ❖ <♦
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Between July 4 and
14 the G.-G., Sir William Slim, is to do
a tour of New Guinea and Papua that
sounds like a guide to the territories.
He’s due to visit Moresby, Samarai, Wau,
Bulolo, Goroka, Minj, Wewak, Madang,
Manus, Kavieng, Sohano, Rabaul, Lae
and Popondetta. He will be interested
in current development, but as an old
jungle-soldier he will, of course, also be
interested in some of the historic battle-
areas. Visits to Port Moresby, Lae and
Rabaul are also on for the Duke of
Edinburgh, and a good many functions
seem to have been scheduled in spite of
his desire for informality. The Royal
yacht Britannia is due at Moresby on the
morning of November 12, and after a
parade of troops there’ll be visits to the
Bomona War Cemetery, the Kokoda
Trail Memorial and Koitaki' plantation.
In the afternoon of November 14 the
Duke will fly to Darwin to begin his
Australian visit.
*l+
“Moorapi”: A Sydney police-sergeant
who asked an evangelist to close his
street-meeting was told by that gent, not
to be ignorant of the law. Charged with
offensive behavior and obstructing of
pedestrian traffic, accused reminded the
court that the Act of Tolerance of
Charles ll’s reign gave him the right
to preach the Gospels on any highway or
byway. His Worship retorted that more
recent laws forbade him to block foot-
paths or insult policemen. Fined £6.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Staff”: I’ve been trying to convince
my c.s.-m. for a long time that his old
war-time unit was made up fcrom the
rejects of my own mob, but he only
answered with a stream of blasphemous
language, so when I took the Bully of
6/6/’56 to him and showed him “B.J.L.’s”
par. in “Society” on the “dills, drunks and
drongos” outfit “BJ.L.” encountered I
thought that would be the end of the
affair. Now I find that my c.s.-m. has
• been spending his beer-money on ads. in
the agony-columns of the daily press ask-
ing “BJ.L.” to contact him. So far the
reception-committee waiting to meet
“BJ.L.” consists of one major, three
sergeants, about half-a-dozen corporals
and the previously-mentioned W. 0.2. If
“BJ.L.” wants to know what camps,
messes and canteens to avoid in future
I’ll tell him for a price.
♦J*
“S.M.S.”: Having made my gift to
the Red Cross blood-bank, I was sitting
in the rest-room for the compulsory 10-
minutes rest, reading my book. Two
young men, both in military uniform,
sat down on the opposite side of the
room and both reached for magazines
from the table. They both picked well-
known women’s magazines ; I, girl, read
The Dam Busters .
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: That stamp-collecting
could be both athletic and competitive
was demonstrated in Sandakan, Borneo,
years ago, on that dignified stretch of
road between the Treasury and the
tennis-courts. The curious circumstances
were observed of Commander Capstick-
Dale being followed, circled, shouted and
dabbed at with a cancellation-stamp by
the hitherto urbane and courteous Indian
post-office krani. That the Commander,
by keeping his back turned to his
opponent, was apparently sheltering in
his arms an unwieldy brown-paper
parcel did not clarify the fracas to the
onlookers. Turning into the club, he
shook off his pursuer, who, class-con-
scious, hesitated to invade those
privileged precincts. The explanation
was that Borneo stamps by Waterlow of
London for postage-due use are over-
printed and, in their uncancelled pristine-
ness, are valued by specialist collectors.
The Commander, resident at Tawao, made
up a largish parcel of to-be-laundered
dress-shirts and posted it without stamps,
addressed to himself care of Sandakan
post-office. He then made his journey
there, called at the post-office and directed
the co-operative counter-Aram which
diverse denominations to affix, in order
to attain the not-inconsiderable postal-
due total. Payment and change-making
created a desirable interval, and before
the surprised clerk could pick up and
wield the cancellation-stamp, the wily
philatelist had parcel, with virgin stamps
affixed, under arm and was, despite pro-
testations, out the door.
SEATING PROBLEMS
A move to endow Sydney with advertisement-bearing seats
Sustained in the Works Committee the second of its defeats;
But, especially now that subscriptions are growing fewer and fewer,
Why not get advertisers to subsidise the Chair of Australian Literature ?
The chair as a whole could be furnished by the firm of Anthony Horderns' —
Neither too complex for the ancients, nor too simple for the morderns;
Lysaght’s fencing-department could be responsible for the stretchers,
And a certain pictorial magazine could subsidise the lectures.
As for the dowelling, people often speak highly
Of a well-tried Australian patent, the Dowell O’Reilly;
None could be better associated with the legs than the Tiv.,
And Dunlopillo would transmit to posterity the best we have to give.
But what motto should be carved on the back for the student of Australian writing ?
“It's Moments Like These You Need Minties”? Or “Use Philips (or Osram) Lamps
in Your Lighting”?
Some claim that in studying for Australian literary theses
Johnnie Walker is the best companion, or one or other of the A.P.Cses . . .
Anyway, if they used these suggestions to combat the feeling that money is scatce,
There might soon be enough to provide for three hearty Australian chairs.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


OYDNEY’S inconsistent weather-fore-
casts moved my acquaintance in the
train to muse: “Beats me why the
Government doesn’t buy ’em one of those
little china-ornaments you see in shops—
you know, the ones with the Indian
wearing the apron: ‘When apron blue,
sky is too. Apron pink, weather stink.’ ”
1 was still thinking over it when,
wringing-wet and sheltering from the
rain under an awning, I gazed absently
in a shop-window. In the foreground
was a china-Indian. His apron was
blue. Maybe that’s the trouble—the
Weather Bureau has got one.—“Harbel.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ardoyne”: The Tasmanian Uni-
versity students who really knew their
macaroons (B. 6/6/’56), after winning the
Australian inter-’varsity quiz-session on
literature and general knowledge con-
ducted by the 8.8. C. and A.8.C., went
on to score 90 per cent, correct answers
against Cambridge : —the highest score in
the competition—thus earning the right
to meet Edinburgh University in the final.
Result : Edinburgh (founded 1583), with
14 points, lost hands-down to
the University of Tasmania
(founded 1890), 22 points.
❖
“Derwent”: An English
nerve-, skin- and heart-
specialist, Sir Walter Fergus-
son Hannay, has thrown a
spanner into the “cancer-due-
to-smoking” findings of medi-
cal and other authorities by
declaring that blame must be
laid on the motor-car for
Britain’s increasing number
of lung-cancer cases. Lung-
cancer emerged with the dis-
appearance of the horse, he
says; we are spraying the
tissues of our respiratory
system with the carcinogen
fumes that belch from car-
exhausts. Well, first it was
aluminium cooking - pots ;
then tobacco; now motor-
traffic —it has to be something
almost universal, yet no one
seems to have thought of
Marilyn Monroe.
“C.P.G.”: A snack-a-teria, experts tell
me, is an eatery with a faster turn-around
than a cafe-teria.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Pupils of the Junction
Demonstration School, Newcastle
(N.S.W.), heard over the air Governor
Sir John Northcott’s speech on the cen-
tenary of responsible government in
N.S.W., and one of them, 11-year-old
Leo Jensen, was deputed to write to say
how they enjoyed it. A little later, the
Governor visited the school and granted
the kids a half-holiday. On the way
home Leo’s cobbers slapped him on the
back, saying “Thanks, pal!”
*l* ♦s»
“Narumee”: A crew of bodgies—
haircuts, widgies and all—were chased
out of the record-department of a large
store by Melbourne police. They tried
to make a getaway by barging through
crowds of sales-doped shoppers, but one
was obstructed by an elderly woman,
whom he knocked flying, and was over-
taken by a copper. Maybe there wouldn’t
be so many crazy, mixed-up kids if there
were a few more such mix-ups.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Hamish”: Unable to get a seat on a
“major” airline, a woman decided
reluctantly to travel by a “minor” airline,
and after her flight indignantly informed
us that she would never fly with “those
people” again. Pressed for a reason, she
said that the wiring on the aircraft she
flew in was faulty. How could she
possibly know of a wiring fault? We
asked her for details. “Well,” she said,
“when we were coming in to land at
Sydney, at night, those little red and green
lights at the ends of the wing-tips kept
flickering on and off, on and off!”
❖ ♦> *
“Ranji”: “Ailsey’s” account of New-
castle City Mission’s Sunday-school (B.
6/6/’56) reminds me of the work done
by the Open Air Campaigners, who have
been holding adults’ and children’s
meetings in Sydney for nearly 60 years,
and in later years have opened branches
in Adelaide, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Meetings are held wherever a group of
children can be found. The meetings on
Sydney’s beaches are often attended by
hundreds of children.
* * *
“Clem”: Married-women teachers
have been causing Victorian M.P.s a
headache with their claims for a better
deal. In England a teacher who marries
is given time-off for 10 years without loss
of pension. On resumption, the time
spent in raising a family counts as con-
tinuous service and no loss of privileges
or rights is incurred. But it will not be
until women are given time-off from
marriage during those strenuous years
that the Golden Age will have arrived.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: “Calcutt’s” reminiscent
par. on Dale Collins (B. 13/6/’56), in
which he remarked that the author “made
a lot of money later by writing,”
appeared on the same day as press-
notices saying Collins left £4886.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roirp”: News from London that an
association of advertisers has decreed
that in future “a stone’s throw” (no real-
estate ad. is real without it) shall be
deemed to be 100yds. or less could have
disturbing consequences if it heralds a
strict moral code in advertising. Instead
of every petrol on the market being
extolled as having “the highest octane
rating” we might find No. 1 claiming to
be “as good as No. 2” or No. 2 “not
inferior to No. 1.” “Fastest,” “smooth-
est,” “biggest,” “lightest” would dis-
appear to the dismay of a public which
likes to feel that whatever it buys is the
best . . . Still, an American advertising-
expert who operated when the art of
mass-advertising was only a pup abhorred
“ It's not dirty — it's mist."
superlatives, yet successfully launched
many world-products with slogans which
still influenced the buying-public: “Keep
that Schoolgirl Complexion!” for
instance.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Tell “Mugga Way” that
seasick-tablets contain ingredients much
more practical than faith (B. 13/6/’56).
I suffered sudden attacks of “seasickness”
due to the nerve petering-out in my
inner right ear; a few tablets restore
equilibrium. Unluckily, their soothing
effect makes me deliciously sleepy; so,
as a Commonwealth employee, I daren’t
take them during office-hours for fear of
substantiating that wretched libel about
civil servants sleeping on the job.
♦j,
“Geep”: A cable about the final with-
drawal of the British from Suez says
the Tommies struck no attitude, “spud-
bashing .... to the unquestionably
bitter end.” “Spud-bashing” recalls some
odd slang I met with men of the British
Pacific Fleet. If they were tired, they
were “flakers” —“I’m flakers.” Remedy
was half-an-hour’s “swede-crashing.”
A cove named Harry was put in to add
emphasis. “I’m Harry-flakers,” and “I’m
for a Harry-swede-crash” meant “I’m
extra tired and I’m going to do something
about it by an extra-long spine-bash.”-
*> ♦!*
“C.A.L.”: The big store conducted an
efficiency-campaign, offering a dinner
and theatre-seats to the department
winning the six-day contest. Daily the
brains-trust visited every floor, noting
personal appearances, cleanliness of stock
and fixtures and quality of display, and
blitzing assistants with questions. A girl
selling underclothing, asked where she
would direct a man wishing to buy a
Masonic apron, said, “To the masonite-
counter”; this cost her department points.
The manager of Builders’ Hardware
prejudiced his own and his salesmen’s
chances of a night-out by remarking that
he wouldn’t have a clue to the duties of a
departmental manager because he had
only held this position with the firm for
30 years. Paints was blistered when its
boss opined that the campaign was a lot
of boloney. Grocery - and - provisions
won ; the dozen counter-jumpers got a
hot meal in the staff-cafeteria at knock-
off time and a ticket each to a newsreel
theatrette.
♦jt
“Renraw”: A pair of Brisbane girl-
twins, although born within an hour,
celebrate their birthdays in different
njonths and different years. The elder
was born at 11.40 p.m. on December 31,
and her sister at 12,35 a.m. on January 1.
The odds against repetition anywhere in
the world must be pretty high.
“Narumee”: A fine, new court-house
for Frankston (Vic.) was completed nine
months ago, down to the last details of
furnishing, lighting and heating. How
come, then, that Frankston’s courts are
being held in a draughty, unsewered,
cramped hall? Well, the contractor
hasn’t got around to paving the
environs of the new court-house —and
they couldn’t let chaps with dirty shoes
tramp all over the superb, polished
parquet-flooring, could they?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Aeolus”: Having made the usual
lawn - topdressing arrangements for
delivery of 5 tons of sandy loam I was
annoyed to find it dumped on the drive-
way, necessitating shifting the lot before
the car could be used. And the charge
had bumped-up another ten-bob.
However, when shifting the stuff I saw a
yellow glint of a silver-lining—a gold
wristlet-watch choked with sand and
useless as a timepiece; but it fetched
thirty-shillings at the gold-buyer’s.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Sulo”: Feather-dusters are at a
premium, de luxe models selling at up to
455. each. Feathers are drifting back to
hats. Emu-tail feathers may make a
comeback, and the South African
ostrich-farms will be in the money again.
*l* *i*
“Jock”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) has lost
another of its landmarks, the two-story
wooden building on the waterfront where
Newcastle and Northern Coalfields folk
once booked cabins for the night-run by
the Sydney steamer. About a million
people travelled the 65-miles between the
two cities on the Newcastle and Hunter
Steamship Company’s ships. The Namoi
and Newcastle, paddle-wheelers, had
looked majestic thrashing their way past
Nobbys into the open sea. World
War I saw their usefulness pass,
and the Gwydir took over. But even
those days are gone ; the railways have
introduced the “Flyer,” which carves out
the 104-miles in just under three hours.
Now it’s possible for a Newcastle woman
to leave home at 9 a.m., spend her
dough on a shopping-spree in Svdney,
and be back home before 8 p.m.
LAST HOLE
“For sale: Set golf-clubs.” —“S.M.H.” classi-
fied advt.
Say! Will a tear bedim his lamp,
Bidding at last a long farewell
To sticks he took on many a tramp
Up verdant hill, down mossy dell — _
The persimmon-head he’d swung with
zest ;
The Number Five at which he’d glare
After the pill had come to rest
Some yards away; his putter —at best
A thing of hope, more often despair?
He’ll hear no more the screaming drive.
Nor watch the perfect, lofted shot
That by some magic would contrive
To drop the ball close by the “pot.”
Perhaps those sights and sounds too long
Had made him gloomy and dis-
mayed —
What golfer would burst into song
When his own shots were going wrong,
The good ones by opponent made?
Had Anno Domini fixed on him
(As it inexorably does
On all of us) the warning glim,
Given the dehortative buzz?
Maybe his bag of clubs had seemed
To weigh twice what it did of yore
As round the too-long course he steamed,
So that reflectively he deemed
It wise to heed Fate’s shouted “Fore!”
It could thus be one prospect he
Found pleasing—that of shorter strolls ;
And so he’d listened eagerly
To honeyed words in praise of bowls.
Far likelier, though, his missus’d “had”
His yap of how he’d “lipped the cup” —
Post-mortems could have been his fad —
Until at last, getting real mad,
She had imperiously bade
The golfing goon he give it up.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
Mark Twain in Australia
From Cyril Clemens, editor, “Mark
Twain Journal,” Kirkwood 22, Missouri,
U.S.A.: —I am editing the anecdotes of
my kinsman, Samuel L. Clemens (Mark
Twain), and shall be happy to hear from
readers of The Bulletin who may
have anecdotes, jokes and stories dealing
with the American humorist. During his
lifetime Mark Twain visited Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEM
Arnold Wall was one of the New
Zealanders to collect a C.B.E. His pro-
fessorial, mountaineering and mountain-
flora-collecting pursuits have all been
mentioned on this page before and
Bulletin readers will be familiar with his
shrewd and witty verse. A Collected
Poems is long overdue.
• •
Keith Lewis Barry, the A.B.C.’s
Federal Controller of Programmes, is
versatile. Born in Parramatta (N.S.W.),
where his father was organist of the
historic St. John’s Church, he went on
from Sydney Grammar to the University,
where he was Busby Scholar in Music.
In England when he was 20, he joined
the Dorset Regiment in 1916, swinging
over later to the R.F.C. After the war
he notched his M. 8., Ch.M., and set up
his shingle at Dee Why (Sydney), but ill-
A.B.C.
health forced him out of a big practice,
and lie went to England again in 1934,
where he did some writing and
broadcasting for the 8.8. C.
Back in Australia two years later, he
became part-time “adviser” on pro-
grammes for the A.8.C., and a few months
later was confirmed in the controllership,
a job he has held down ever since.
He writes, too. He’s written for The
Bulletin’s “Red Page,” was editor of
“Music in Australia,” and is author of
Chopin and His 14 Doctors and Music
and the Listener. As well, he’s been
lecturer in music for the Sydney Uni-
versity Extension Board, member of the
Australian Nat. Commission, Unesco, and
Federal president of the National Associa-
tion for the Prevention of T.B. (he’s still
president of the N.S.W. branch); and he
was Australian rep. at the International
Council of Music in Paris in 1954. Plays
tennis at White City, with occasional
rounds of golf, to keep fit.
Barry’s grandfather, incidentally, held
the first grant of land in the outer-Sydney
seaside suburb of Narrabeen about a
century ago.
• •
“A. 8.”: New 0.8. E. Canon Ernest
Richard Gribble is, in his 90’s, still in
harness as chaplain at the Palm Island
Aboriginal Settlement, North Queens-
land, where he has been for the past
quarter of a century. As was his father
before him, he’s a good friend of the
abos. (about 60 years of his life have been
devoted to improving their lot) and he
has been an outspoken critic of injustice ;
his books include A Despised Race and
Forty Years With the Aborigines. He
was also head of the N.Q. Yarrabah
Mission (1892-1910), and the Forrest
River Mission in northern W.A. (1914-
18); and his acquaintance with his sub-
ject goes even further back: he grew up
among aborigines in the Murrumbidgee
River area, and later, in his ’teens, along
the Gascoyne in the West Kimberleys.
The case-book of a veteran police-
officer closed in Perth with the death of
Robert Connell, Westralian Commis-
sioner of Police from 1912 until his retire-
ment in 1932. He came from Northern
Ireland in 1886, joined the Force in W.A.
—it then numbered a round hundred
and saw service on the beat and as a
detective in various parts of the State.
He was seriously injured during the Kal-
goorlie mining riots; another highlight
of his service was his introduction, iu
1902, of the fingerprint system of
identification —he learnt the score on this
during a six-months’ course at Scotland
Yard. As inspector, in 1904, he took
charge of the C. 1.8., became Chief
Inspector in 1911 and Commissioner the
following year. His prompt measures to
suppress a riot on the Fremantle
wharves during the 1927 shipping-strike
prevented the trouble becoming a good
deal worse a typical
sample of his ability to cope
with emergencies.
o #
Duncan Mackinnon,
picked by the Victorian
Government to head the
committee to control the
activities of real - estate
agents and prevent improper
practices, has the back-
ground : Caulfield city-
councillor and mayor, then
president of the Law Insti-
tute council and almost a
lifetime as a barrister and
solicitor in Collins-street,
chiefly engaged in real-
estate matters. He was four
years in the First A.1.F.,
and commissioned, and is
an indifferent, but indefatig-
able, bowler for Murrum-
beena, where he has lived 36
years. It is difficult, in Vic-
toria, to appoint a commit-
tee for anything without
including a Mackinnon ; but
the new chairman says his
branch of the family is
exceptional among Mac-
kinnons: it isn’t rich.
• •
Roderick Shaw Colquhoun,
president of the Brisbane
division of the Australian
Institute of Management,
is B.H.P.’s Queensland
manager, and during War II
formed the State’s first
Munitions Committee, work-
ing in close association with
Essington Lewis. In War I he was in the
Australian Flying Corps, and he’s a
foundation-member of the Royal Queens-
land Aero Club and a former president of
the Australian Air Force Association
(Queensland division). “Clubman,”
although hardly an adequate description,
does sum-up one side of his activities —
he’s a member of a great many clubs and
organisations in two Australian States,
and is vice-president of the Brisbane
B.H.P.
Club. He’s shone at tennis, football, ice-
hockey and table-tennis, and has been an
active lifesaver, diver, swimmer and
shooter. Still shootsj swims, and plays
golf and tennis. Sydney-born, he attended
school, university and technical college
in N.S.W.
“J.”: W. J. Cleaves has retired at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) after 64 years in the
legal profession. He joined the office of
G. W. Millard, solicitor, in 1891, and
recalls a fair swag of litigation. Cases
with which he was professionally asso-
ciated included the Vend case, in which
Newcastle collieries and inter-State
shipping-firms were convicted of entering
into a combination to restrain trade. The
hearing lasted nine months —four days a
week —and the Bar was the strongest
assembled in Australia before or since.
The companies went to the Privy Council
and had the judgment of Isaacs, J.,
reversed.
• •
“C.A.A.”: Melbourne football-clubs
and supporters have rallied to the aid of
North player Brian Johnson, who was
totally blinded following an accidental
knock early in the season. The testi-
monial fund, still open, is already past
the £3OOO-mark. Johnson was a teacher
of chemistry at Footscray Technical
School.
• •
Passed on in Perth at 76, John C. Will-
cock, former Premier of Westralia, whose
15| years as a Cabinet Minister made a
State record. He crossed from N.S.W.
in 1899, joined the W.A. Railways as an
enginedriver, was active in union affairs
and went-into the Assembly in 1917 as
member for Geraldton. Seven years later
he became a member of the Collier Gov-
ernment and held Cabinet rank again
when Collier returned to power in 1933.
Succeeding to the top post when his
leader resigned through ill-health
in 1936, he was Premier until 1945, when
he, too, resigned for health reasons. His
long and varied administration (at differ-
ent times he had the Treasury, Railways,
Justice, Education, Forests and Police)
secured him a reputation for tolerance,
friendliness and sincerity, and he had a
recognised capacity for consistent hard
work. His years in Parliament won him
the liking and esteem of members of all
parties.
• •
“D.” on,a vintage case:
After 54 years in the wine (home-delivery)
business, Arthur Pearson has sold his William-
street (Melbourne) concern, just a little short
of his 80th birthday. He wants to grow better
flowers and turn out better carpentry at his
Armadale home than he now has time to do.
Here are some of my questions and his
answers: Why do they call you the king of
the wine industry, sir? —They have to call me
something, and sometimes it has been some-
thing else! . . . Seriously?—Because I have been
in the trade so long, I suppose. I’m proud
of having won the Royal Show wine-champion-
ship of Australia every time I’ve exhibited my
own blend and selection of the growers’ wines.
. . . Are Australian wines improving?—Yes, a
careful selection is equal to the world’s best. . . .
How would I make a careful selection? —Ah,
that’s what the wine-merchant is for! . . . And
having made a careful selection with expert
advice? —Don’t drink overmuch!
The cheerful octogenarian’s father, James, was
in the business for 35 years, and he succeeded his
cousin, William Godfrey. It has been a family
concern for just over the century.
e •
“Allan B.”: Bishop Charles Venn
Pilcher, who resigned on his 76th birth-
day as Bishop-Coadjutor of Sydney after
20 years in that post, is the author of
many hymns and was editor of the Aus-
tralian Supplement to the worldwide
“Songs of Praise.” Two years ago the
Government of Iceland conferred upon
him the Order of Knight Commander of
the Icelandic Order of the Falcon, in
recognition of his distinguished services
to Icelandic literature. During his 30
years as Greek Testament Professor at
Toronto University, Canada (1906-36),
places he got to know in his extensive
travels included Iceland, Norway, Den-
mark, Germany and the West Indies.
He is a member of the Sydney University
Board of Divinity Studies. Before taking
the cloth he put in 10 years blowing a
bass-clarinet with the Toronto Symphony
Orchestra.
• •
“Sym”: Jack Dyer, known to a vast
Victorian football public as Captain
Blood, has been to Royal Ascot in a grey
topper and the appropriate rig-out. Some
of the Melbourne dailies got picturegrams
of him in his finery and friendly grin ;
and there were, of course, cheers at his
little pub in industrial Prahran, although
Dyer is wise enough probably to have
hired the outfit from Moss Bros., as do
most peers.
• •
Just sailed from England, William
Thomson, head of the Duthie experi-
mental farm of the Rowett Institute,
who’s coming here under a Royal Society
and Nuffield Foundation bursary to study
and discuss sheep-nutrition. He will study
conditions during the lambing and shear-
ing seasons, starting in W.A. and going
through to Queensland before flying to
N.Z., in November, to attend the Inter-
national Grasslands Conference in
Palmerston North.
• •
Rudy Bretz, the American TV expert
brought here by Artransa and asked to
stay on by the A.B.C. (he’s been instruct-
ing cadres of experts on production-
technique), was sketched at The Bulletin
office before he went back to New York.
TV
At 42, he’s at the top of the TV-tree, and
has been everything from photographer
to producer: and that, it seems, is the key
to success in the (relatively) new medium.
He had a background of formal art-
education before he went into the film-
industry on a Rockefeller Foundation
fellowship, and he got in on the ground-
floor by becoming C.B.C.’s first camera-
man when the big U.S. network started in
television. Versatility, he emphasised, is
the thing in TV ; and the intimacy of the
medium—the fact that the actor is facing
multiples of three or four instead of big
theatres —means that a type of stylised
acting eminently suitable for stage and
screen will not do for television. Bretz
has written a number of textbooks on TV,
and since 1949 has been a consultant. A
list of his assignments would stretch from
here to next week, so one example must
serve —his recent trip to West Germany
(sponsored by the U.S. State Department)
to advise on setting-up TV-networks.
• •
“Cliaman Ban”: Once, in Scotland, I
attended a Mod —Scottish version of the
Welsh National Eisteddfod —and sat
beside a greybeard in homespuns whom
I took for a small crofter or shepherd.
Soon we were yapping away as if we’d
known each other all our lives, and from
the purity of his English I concluded he
must be a Highlander. Over lunch (I did
the shouting) he shrewdly criticised the
performers, and certainly showed he
knew a lot about the national music. After
the next session he insisted on standing
me my tea: thinking he mightn’t be able
to afford it, 1 hardly liked to accept, but,
having experienced something of thin-
skinned Highland pride, I daren’t refuse.
As we ate and drank I held forth on the
enthusiasm of the Scots for their Mod,
and said it was a pity that the aristocracy
and politicians didn’t do more to encour-
age the native sentiment. “Some of us
do what we can,” my companion said.
“By the way, I’m the Earl of Cassilis.” I
met him at all sorts of similar events in
the next few months and found him a
staunch barracker of the national arts and
crafts. He succeeded his father as
Marquess of Ailsa, served in the Boer
War (Queen’s Medal with two clasps) and
was a notable farmer. He passed on the
other day.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 48, David Wilson Bailey,
director of the Australian Information Bureau
in New York during War 11, and later a
“Sydney Morning Herald” executive.
In Tasmania, at 60, “Snowy” Atkinson,
cricketer and Australian Rules footballer. An
opening batsman, he captained Tasmania
between 1926 and 1935, playing against Jardine’s
1932 M.C.C. side and other touring teams. At
football he captained Fitzroy V.P.L. team
in 1924-25, and continued playing for some
years when he returned to Tasmania.
At Chatswood, Sydney, Leonard May, Old
Digger doctor and member of a well-known
N.S.W. family. He came out of the Kaiser’s
war with the D.S.O. and M.C., and lost a son
in Hitler’s. One of his two daughters married
a Yarralumla Campbell.
In Hobart, suddenly, at 60, Major A. W.
Hutchin, D.S.O. He was military-secretary to
General Birdwood during War I; was a former
member of the House of Representatives; and,
from 1938 to 1954, was general-manager of
Tatt.’s, Hobart.


WHEN STATHAM FELL (FIRST BALL OF THE MATOH) AT LORD'S


ABORIGINALITIES
AMawbanna (Tas.) farmer hurled a
stone at an attacking Jersey bull.
He scored a “bull” between the eyes at
25ft., and Ferdinand tumbled over, dead.
Afterwards Ferd.’s conqueror beat a
neighbor at darts and thereby got the
skinning done for nothing.—“Metax.”
* * * *
“Metax”: A bag of first-grade
potatoes in a Burnie (Tas.) draper’s
shop is helping the sale of socks. Buyers
of a pair at 9s. lid. can take one potato
free. A sort of new form of counter-
lunch.
* * * *
“Bott Fly”: Heading for Griffith
(N.S.W.) on a holiday walkabout we’d
boiled the billy at Turn-Back-Little-
Johnny Creek and were having our snack
when along the side of the road came
a couple of abos. leading a pair of very
nice saddle-nags. When they got close
my mate asked the more intelligent-
looking of the two why they were walk-
ing when they had good horses to sit
down on, but the only response he got
was a wide grin and a dusky shake of a
head, whereupon his apparently not-so-
intelligent mate paused long enough to
flatten us with: “Hoots, laddie, he dinna
ken ye mon. Is there something ye be
wanting the noo?” With that they
passed on, and we’re still none the wiser
as to whether those two darkies are
native Scotchmen or Scotch natives.
* * * *
“Noah”: Relics of depression-day
gold-prospector’s equipment are still to
be found on the nor’-west Victorian
alluvial fields, and, with the exception of
“Also, it's not in the award!”
old casks for puddling-tubs, the bulk
of the rest —cradles, tail-races, windlasses
—came straight from the blade of an axe.
Old wagon-wheel hub-bands served as
windlass-drum end-clamps to fasten a
single-piece combination drum-axle and
handle. The remains of a large bellows
I found seemed to indicate that the steel
tips of the miners’ picks were heat-
welded in an open charcoal-fire. Despite
the fact that the field had previously been
worked-over by the early diggers, some
of the later men dug out enough gold
to make a living by following the old
leads and acting on the assumptions that
few of the rush-day diggers were qualified
miners and that the abundance of gold
at the time caused the majority to con-
centrate on the high-grade wash-dirt.
Anybody fossicking in the same place
now would be an optimist.
* * * *
4; Ffl*ir Threes”: It is doubtful if any
light cam compare in efficiency with a
railway-shunter’s kerosene hand-lamp.
Designed to burn for eight-hours, the
lamp is easily visible at quarter-of-a-mile
range, and it remains alight held in
various positions and waved and swung
to signal train-movements, while a mere
"I must say you do yourself proud for morning-tea, Crunter”
flick of the wrist selects any of three
colors—red, white or green. Simplicity
allows sturdy manufacture and conse-
quently low maintenance; and the fact
that the lamp serves as an ever-ready
cigarette-lighter is another point in its
favor. Experimental electric-cell models
have not yet proved superior.
* * * *
“Mulloway”: Bill heard that there were
“millions of bream down at Fingal,” so
he and the old man went down to give
them a go. After throwing back about
a dozen pikers of the six-inches-and-
under group they were joined by a bloke
who asked, “Howyer goin’, mates?
Doin’ any good?” Bill confessed that
they hadn’t had one decent run. “Aw,
v’ don’t know ’ow t’ ketch ’em,” said
Mr. Knowall. “I got thirty-five ’ere
yesterdee. We ’ad ’em f’r breakfast this
mornin’, and they was as much as me
and the wife and' the two kids could
eat.”
* * * *
“A.C.K.”: News that bookmakers still
leave their clients lamenting puts me in
mind of the small thriving mining-town
Kookynie, in Western Australia, the year
Apologue won the Melbourne Cup—as
memory serves, 1907. Our bookmaker
overlaid Apologue and didn’t wait for
settling-time, but left town hurriedly.
The angry punters erected a “grave” in
the main street, complete with cross,
inscribed, “Sacred to the Memory of
Maurice . Departed this town, sud-
denly, Melbourne Cup day, R.LP. (Re-
turn if Possible),” and a verse. A red
lantern at each end of the grave was lit
every night, and a photographer did a
brisk trade selling photographs of the
grave, one of which I still have.
* * * *
“Eddas”: Here in Central Queensland
I’ve seen as many as four brush-turkeys
(Leipoa ocellato ) working on the building
of a nest-mound. One mound that I
measured was 6yds. in diameter. The
birds, using wings and legs, kick back
small twigs and leaves into a common
centre, the material being gathered for
anything up to 60yds. around. Some
mounds contain as many as 60 eggs,
which are stood on end in the mound.
The hen birds continually test the tem-
perature of the mound, packing on or
taking off certain portions in order to
regulate an even temperature at 94deg.
Fahr. This is maintained until the
chicks are due to emerge, when they are
left to fend' for themselves. The chicks
easily fill-up on wood-bugs, beetles and
caterpillars, many of which they find in
the mound itself.
* * * *
“Derwent”: According to Walt
Disney’s travelling photographer, A.
Millote, now in Tasmania filming native
animals for future use, the one with
more personality than any other he has
met is the porcupine, alias Echidna
aculeata, who used to be a boyhood
terror in spelling-tests under the name of
Ornithorhynchus. Two other natives he
also found interesting are the Tasmanian-
devil and the platypus. The porcupine
Tassie knows was first spotted by Captain
Bligh and his officers when they called at
Adventure Bay on their second' breadfruit
voyage in 1790, a couple of years after
Bligh had planted his first Tasmanian
apples. Both he and Lieut. Tobin left
sketches and details of the “strange
animal” shot by Lieut. Guthrie: these, in
Bligh’s log-book and Tobin’s Book of,
Illustrations, are in Sydney’s Mitchell
Library, and were reproduced by Dr.
Mackaness in his Life of William Bligh.
* * * *
“Edx”: Only forked-tail swift roosting
(B. 6/6/’56) that I’ve seen was when the
Old Man used to keep half-a-dozen
chooks. Boss-of-the-roost was Old
Forky—the foxy had taken
a mouthful of feathers out of
her tail, giving it an extra-
ordinary forked appearance.
Dad got a new bird, but
forgot to enlarge the perch,
on which there was room for
only the six. Old Forky for-
got, too, and the first
evening, having waited, as
she always did, until the other birds were
all perched, she found there was no
room left. She was strutting up and
down underneath clucking indignantly
when the new bird, either unused to the
new perch or jostled by a jealous
neighbor, overbalanced and squarked to
the ground. Old Forky was up in a
flash. It was the swiftest piece of roost-
ing I’ve ever seen. She occupied her
normal position, and the newcomer spent
the night on the ground.
* * * *
Some ants I observed recently
in Tassie left me puzzled. Through two
holes about head-high they were boring
into a big gum, growing normally and
greenly. In constant streams workers
were disappearing into the holes, and re-
appearing later with fragments of wood
in the antennas. These fragments they
dropped on to a heap of “sawdust” at
the foot of the tree that would have
done justice to a decent-sized saw-bench.
Anyone suggest why they were boring
into a green tree?
* * * *
“Spadger”: Out Walcha (N.S.W.) way
a chap applied to the Land Board for
transference to himself of a grazing-
lease. Transfer allowed, but improve-
ments to block to be taken into considera-
tion for determination of rental. Apart
from fencing, the only standing improve-
ment was an ancient stockyard. Appli-
cant collected an old-timer to give
evidence on the decrepitude of the struc-
ture. Old-timer was slow and reminis-
cent: “I recollect many years ago those
yards being put up,” he said. “They
were built by a man of the name of
Cain.” “I can well believe that, sir,”
interjected the surveyor, “and probably
Adam helped him cut the timber.” No
additional rent for improvements.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Merely typical of our
general casual approach to memorials,
even many of the locals don’t know what
the obelisk just inside the boundary-fence
about four miles from Appin on the road
to Campbelltown (N.S.W.) was erected
to commemorate. The stone marks the
site of the Hume homestead, the point
from which Hamilton Hume and Captain
Hovell set out on the expedition to Port
Phillip on October 2, 1824. The com-
memorative-stone is the work of the
Royal Australian Historical Society; an
acre of the land around it was, very com-
mendably, bought by the Government
some years back. By contrast, there is
another memorial not very far away
which everyone notes —the sign that
reads “Fisher’s Ghost Creek.” Appar-
ently the surest way to go down to
posterity is to get yourself murdered, then
refuse to go dead.
* * * *
“M.F.D.”: Temora and Cootamundra
were tearing into each other in a Maher
Cup (N.S.W. country Rugby League)
match. Cars were parked around the
tree-bordered oval, but some enthusiasts,
to get a better view, climbed into the
branches and carried on a verbal battle
with supporters of the visiting team,
watching the game from their cars
below. At a particularly exciting
moment a limb snapped and a local
barracker crashed on to an open car
parked underneath, smashing the wind-
screen and gashing his arm. The driver
of the car sat unmoved behind the wheel.
“I hope y’ bleed to death, you cow,” he
snarled as the rival barracker was led
away for ambulance-attention.
VICTORIOUS AUTUMN
The long dry slopes of desolated beans with
yellow hands
Bewail the year and clap and shake storraily to
the north
From whence come the rains and wind that
shake the land,
From whence come the dark clouds that loom
forth
Above the dark green trees and timber white
with time ...
And in Reynolds’s, by the Tambo, grows the
lime
With golden brightening fruit below the flower,
And in among the river-reeds the black swans
cower
To rise at evening, shaking like black music
swiftly over
Vermilion skies all silvered swift with
plovers ...
This is our season, this our month, and never
Should we two, greatest of dreamers, have felt
the sever
Of dissonance. I’ll take your slender moonlit
hand again
And listen with, my brown Australian mind, in
awkward pain
To a brilliant voice that tempts me to another
land.
I’ll stare outward in silence, while within I
moan
Like an old Greek song, forever, that I’m alone
. . . alone.
And while small twigs fall and bark rests rustily
under
I’ll add all these things to myself: even the
surge of thunder
That lies back of the kookaburras’ restless
laughter,
While the diamond-birds with jewelled heads
seek the rafters
Of the hut. But, outside in a thunderous,
threatening afternoon
All the rich noble mysterious youth of Aus-
tra 1 i<i seems
To be treading deep green grass, murmuring
in dreams
Of a ghostly Waterloo that travelled to it, long
ago . . .
Under an old grey field-coat stained with lain
and snow.
And far off in the sky, yet not far down the
track,
We smell as we walk the strong blue odor
of gunpowder far back,
Drifting harmless, yet with genius, from some
brilliant gallant day . . .
And a great ipan arises beside us, and speaks,
or cannot say
Wherein or how or why he failed, and came
to live in books only.
Yet, pacing side by side, you and I, Italian
and Australian, lonely,
Lovers of prose and verse and song can only
swing our hands
Idly backward in the face of time, hoping that
great lands
And enormous armies thus, are kept back, are
stayed forever in peace.
And I will say to you, now as of old, “Perhaps
in ancient Greece
,$/e two wandered thus and laughed and san®,
or stopped now and then
To trace, with the black charcoal lying under
burnt trees, ten
Lines from Virgil or described with bivalve lines
Our fancy that Ovid might have formed
designs
Immortal and vigorous in his own god’s fiesh
And himself suffered metamorphosis and, mesh
by mesh,
Lived again. Or turning the talk to gods, might
have said
Within, that against wars this shield was turned
gold-red
And noble.” Underfoot, after rain the black
leaves
Of the gumtrees, thin and fine and shaped as
each believes
Like cheese-baskets sold in Pompeii . . . and
to the leaf
Rich and unerring swings the immortal belief
And cries out from the earth, “Yet another
golden shield
To bring forth love and make the high gods
yield.”
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


Fussy birds these
l-wanters <,»<*
l-demanders
The I-wanters we perfectly understand. We fully
appreciate the ways of the I-demanders.
We’ve equipped ourselves specifically for their
benefit and pleasure.
There’s nothing peculiar about these inveterate
air travellers, sometimes better known as Big
Shots, or V.l.P.’s. They’ve grown considerably in
numbers with the phenomenal expansion of our
industries—and of our services. They are simply
people who get things done because that’s what
they are equipped to do. They’re the people
who produce the goods.
They’re trained in the supplying of the wants of
a nation, in acceding to the demands of circum-
stance. They are the people who organise and
direct supply and production to satisfy and please
the wants and demands of millions.
Just as we do.
They want, because they give, a lot of service.
They demand, because they give, every efficiency.
Because like attracts, like, these people fly only
where they can enjoy their travelling in an
atmosphere of reciprocal efficiency, comfort,
courtesy. They fly Qantas.
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (inc. in Q’land.)
IN ASSOCIATION WITH 8.0.A.C. AND TEAL
Q 6.82.46
Enjoy the World's finest professional Sound
Films in your own Home . . .
AND SHOW YOUR OWN
16mm. AMATEUR FILMS TOO,
Hi®
OPTICAL
SOUND
MAGNETIC
SOUND
—or both!
OWN A
SIEMENS
"2000"
world’s finest and most versatile
16mm. Sound and Silent Projector.
To own a Siemens “2000” 16mm. Sound Projector makes it possible for you to show the world’s
finest professional sound films right in your own home, club or community hall, as well as
16mm. amateur films. A huge selection of films (optical sound) are available from a number
of film libraries at moderate hiring charges.
ANYONE can operate a Siemens “2000” — it’s simple, foolproof, and completely reliable.
The Siemens “2000” is the ONLY projector that is built up from a basic silent unit, to which
optical sound and magnetic sound units may be added if, and when, required. The optical
system is brilliant; the triple claw mechanism gives an absolutely steady image and minimises
film wear. The Sound, both optical and magnetic, is of “hi-fi” quality.
Manufactured by Siemens & Halske, leading German manufacturers of precision motion picture
equipment for more than 30 years.
Write for free illustrated booklet
for full information about this
remarkable machine.
HANIMEX PTY. LTD.,
14 King St., Sydney; 326 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne; 76 Ann St.,
Brisbane; 3 Francis St., Adelaide,
and 935 Hay St., Perth.
Name
Address
'
If photography is your hobby the 1956 edition of the
Hanimex Photo Equipment Handbook is a MUST! A com-
prehensive guide to the finest in photographic equipment.
2/6, post free, from Dept. B/6, HANIMEX PTY. LTD., 14
King Street, Sydney.
NEW woman resident at Mount Lofty
(S.A.) rang with a news-tip to an
Adelaide news-service. “I think it’s
snowing up here,” she said breathlessly.
“Some kind of white stuff is falling down.
I imagine it’s snow, but I haven’t seen
snow before.” “What’s it look like?”
asked the news-office. “Like an adver-
tisement for soap-flakes,” said the lady.
—“Wattle-gum.”
* * * *
“An Chuidh”: As suggested by
“Sparks,” dehydrating and compressing of
foods are not so modern, after all (B.
6/6/’56). At Sir Walter Scott’s home of
Abbotsford, in Scotland, there is a
block of oatmeal, compressed solid,
which was found in the sporran of a
Highlander who fell for the Prince at
Culloden. It appears identical with the
blocks of the same food put in emergency-
packs used by hikers, and when I visited
Abbotsford I was assured that it was still
edible.
* * * *
“M.F.D.”: On our backyard lattice-
fence spiders are as thick as ever despite
constant efforts to get rid of them. I’ve
used mixtures guaranteed to put finis to
even Argentine-ants, but either the
spiders are tougher than I thought or
there are always plenty of reinforcements
to move in when necessary, because the
population of that particular lattice never
seems to grow less.
* * * *
“Sparks”: Myxomatosis has forced
rabbit-fur on the American market up to
eight dollars (about £3 125.) a pound—
several times higher than the price of
wool. Meanwhile hat-manufacturers
have spent thousands of dollars unsuccess-
fully on research for a synthetic substi-
tute for rabbit-fur. The only consola-
tion is the thought that at last a blame
has been invented that can’t be put on
anyone’s head.
* * * *
“Lyle”: In Hollywood’s version of
Pride and Prejudice, when Greer Garson
visited her former boy-friend, the Rev.
Collins, who had married her girl-friend,
the close-up of the rectory-farmyard
showed a White Wyandotte rooster.
These blokes were developed—and in the
"When he asked for a second opinion I'm sure he had no idea
you'd be so longwinded!"
U.S. at that —some 50 years after the
time of the story.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: “Manager’s assistant” (B.
6/6/’56) is something like “fitter’s mate” ;
any promotion goes to the fitter, and his
former mate becomes mate to another
fitter. Often it seems that the fitter
would be lost without his mate, because
the mate, if he is an adept sort of bloke,
does the job better than the fitter c«uld.
“J.E.8.”: *Swelpme” (B. 6/6/’56)
spilt a jugful in saying Brer Rabbit can
turn on a savage attack when the spirit
moves him. Schoolie friend paid a visit
to a Walla Walla (N.S.W.) homestead
where they kept a “tame” bunny, and to
pose him for a snap he picked Bun. up by
the ears and lightly pressed him into the
desired position against a tree-stump.
Bun. refused to co-operate, so a little
added pressure was applied to make him
stay put. In a flash the sharp teeth sank
into the would-be photographer’s fingers,
and to emphasise it Bun. lashed out
with both hind-legs, laying open flesh
from base of fingers to above the wrist.
Twenty-odd stitches, and that ped. will
carry purple-blotched and serrated scars
as a memento.
* # # *
“Saaedi”: For a night-prowler the
powerful-owl—largest and fiercest of our
nocturnal predators—displays remarkable
day-time alertness. A dweller in dense
forests, he is difficult to approach ; well
before you reach his hiding-place he
usually utters a spine-chilling shriek anc
departs. Maybe a stalker in Sitting
Bull’s class might have more success, bu
I have never yet observed this featherec
monster at rest. A glimpse of him dash-
ing through the forest —and making
mighty good time for a heavy, com-
paratively short-winged fowl—is all ]
have been granted. The powerful-ow
takes shelter during the day in hollows ol
big trees or amongst a dense mass ol
leaves. It’s probably when he camps in
the latter —which actually seems his
favorite lair —that he displays most alert-
ness. His hearing—like that of the lyre-
bird, and indeed all feathered denizens of
brush and dense forest —must be little
short of miraculous.
* * * *
“Doric”: Nature can mix the most
vivid hues and there is never a sign of
clashing. No dressmaker would make an
ensemble of blue and green, and yet
green leaves do not look out of place with
blue flowers. What artist would place
yellow beside magenta! And yet
chrysanthemums of these shades look
charming together. These two normally
out-of-tune colors are also well-blended
in our Christmas-bell.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In any hotel in
W.A. 30 or so years back a pot turned
upside-down on the bar was a challenge
to fight any man present. The challenge
was usually accepted, and it dispensed
with words and other unnecessary pre-
liminaries. There was almost a touch of
chivalry about it. The knight of old,
offended by his peer, hurled down his
gage. The Australian bushwhacker with
a grievance ordered a pot, downed the
contents, inverted the container, and
stepped back, ready. Apart from that
simple act, the only other thing I know
as calculated to open hostilities was the
quiet question, “Who was the best man
here before I came along?” But that
approach had a door behind it, and the
questioner could always wriggle through
it by an attempt at facetiousness and a
jovial admission, “Well, you’re still the
best man.” The inverted pot was a direct
and open challenge. There was no retreat
from it.
TREE AND RIVER
A gum stands by the Darling at Tolarno
And bends its branches down caressingly.
The tree will never travel from Tolarno,
But sees its river flow past to the sea.
The Darling laves a gumtree at Tolarno,
Wetting it with the tears of its farewell.
The river cannot linger at Tolarno,
But must be lost within the ocean’s swell.
S.A.
R. H. MORRISON.


,p,nm
QUEENSLAND
★
NEW S OUTH WALES
"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson. C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. P. Wright, M.8.E.: R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann, Pastoral ■ Inspector: Prank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W, Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Petro-chemical Problems
ACCOUNTS of Petroleum
and Chemical Corporation
(Aust.), Ltd., for the year ending
on Saturday of this week will
be waited for with interest by
many investors. But 1955-56
has been a running-in period for
the plant, and what the direc-
tors have to say will probably
be more relevant than what the
accounts themselves reveal.
“Paccal,” as the shares of the
co. have come to be known, was
a glamor-stock when it first
came on the market (in Novem-
ber, 1953) under the sponsor-
ship of Bitumen and Oil
Refineries (Aust.), from which
it was to draw its oil-require-
ments under a 20-year contract.
The £1 shares in 1955 went as
high as 455. Last week there
were sales at 255. and 265., and
the general decline in share-
prices of the past 10 months has
been by no means entirely
responsible.
With a paid-up capital of
£1,328,600 and total funds a
little over £2 million (at June
30, 1955), Paccal has set out to
produce, in its initial stages,
crude benzene, toluene and
xylene ; fuel - oil containing
highly aromatic petroleum-tars ;
and residual gas (sold to the
Australian Gas Light Co. under
a long-term contract).
The prospectus of the co. went
on to explain that “the gases
from crude petroleum are rich
in ethylene and propylene, and
these two products, more
especially in combination with
benzene, form the main raw
materials for the petro-chemical
industry. The major field for
the use of petro-chemicals lies
in the manufacture of plastics,
paints, varnishes, lacquers, sol-
vents, drugs and synthetic
alcohols and synthetic rubber.”
On May 6, 1955, in association
with Drug Houses of Australia,
Ltd., and Monsanto Chemicals
(Aust.), Ltd., Paccal formed
Pacmodhal Pty., Ltd., to investi-
gate the manufacture of petro-
chemicals in the Commonwealth.
The three cos. are equally
interested financially in the
venture.
In view of the novelty of the
petro-chemical industry in the
Southern Hemisphere it is
interesting to study what has
happened in North America. It
is estimated that a quarter of
all chemical production on
the American continent has
petroleum as its basic raw
material, and it is thought likely
that by 1960 the proportion will
have risen to a third.
The chemical industry has had
a period of expansion out of
proportion to most other manu-
facturing industries, and petro-
chemicals have been particu-
larly prominent in that expan-
sion. In Canada, in a period of
declining manufacture as a
whole, chemical production has
gone to progressive record
levels.
The market for petro-
chemicals falls into two main
categories replacements and
innovations. Of the former,
synthetic rubber was the item
that gave the Canadian industry
its first great impetus during
World War 11. It is not now
so important. Others in the
“replacement” or “substitute”
category are detergents, plastics
and synthetic fibres. These pro-
ducts are selling at the expense of
the older commodities of differ-
ent origin but of similar “end-
product.”
Innovations include “anti-
freeze” (glycol), anti-knock
petrol additives, new fertilisers,
etc., and they have to be sold to
the public as something new.
Replacements have a field
limited to present demand for
the older product, plus normal
increase in demand from
increased population, higher
living-standard, etc. Detergents,
for example, if they continue
replacing soap at the present
rate, will have the field to them-
selves in the early nineteen-
sixties. Plastics, though replac-
ing glass in many cases, are
more versatile in their use, and
at present appear to have a
wider prospect ahead of them.
Commenting on the economics
of the Canadian industry, the
Canadian Bank of Commerce
estimates that over $3OO million
is invested, and says that it is
essentially a large-scale opera-
tion, inasmuch as the minimum
plant of economic size entails
very heavy capital-outlay. It is
also an industry which builds
for the future to an unusual
degree, as the rate of growth of
most of its products has been
phenomenal in post-war years.
Another serious problem in the
industry is the fact that the pro-
duction of a quantity of a par-
ticular product for which there is
a keen demand may involve a
large output of an associated
product for which demand is
not so great, and which must be
stockpiled or sold at a loss.
(This position will be appreci-
ated by those Australians who
invested in Meggitt, Ltd., in its
early life, when production of
stock-feed from linseed entailed
a corresponding output of
linseed-oil, for which, in those
days, there was not sufficient
demand. Balance was brought to
the industry when linoleum-
manufacturing was instituted to
absorb the surplus linseed-oil.)
In Canada only recently has
the domestic market been big
enough to support economic runs
of the plant in particular cases.
Most of the multi-million-dollar
plants have depended on exports
to make them payable. And
there has been considerable
pressure on the domestic market
from surplus U.S. production.
The picture that one gathers
from Canadian experience is that
the Australian petro-chemical
industry, when it develops
beyond the present stage, will
have an uphill battle for some
time because of the heavy addi-
tional capital-outlay that appears
to be required, the limited
market in relation to minimum
economic plant-capacity, and the
lack (so far) of indigenous
petroleum.
New Brew
VJUIDESPREAD interest has
been aroused by the
announcement of the sale to
Canadian Breweries, Ltd., of the
right to use a new brewing-
process developed by Dominion
Breweries, Ltd., Auckland.
The sale has been described
in Auckland as “a big dollar
deal,” but the sharemarket, at
least in Wellington, has no
knowledge of the extent
to which Dominion Breweries’
shareholders may expect to
benefit. Nevertheless, keen,
speculative buying sent the
shares up by about 17s. in 10
days.
Canadian Breweries, reputed
to be the biggest brewing firm in
the world, has acquired the right
to use the process in Canada,
the United States and Britain.
Two other internationally
famous firms are negotiating for
rights to the process, which has
patent - protection in New
Zealand, Australia, Great
Britain, Canada, the United
States, France, Belgium, Holland,
Denmark, Western Germany,
Switzerland and Sweden.
The managing-director of
Dominion Breweries, H. J.
Kelliher, said that research by
“I’m sorry, sir, but I'm afraid we cant help
you to get back."
the company over several years
has resulted in the development
of an unorthodox and vastly
improved technique, which
brought about the removal of
undesirable nitrogenous elements
from a brew before fermenta-
tion. The process produced beer
of much longer shelf-life and
stability than was customary
under normal brewing methods
and on a far more economic
basis. He was confident that in
time the new system would
become standard practice
throughout the world.
The agreement with Canadian
Breweries followed the visit to
New Zealand of Major F. M.
Ward, vice-president in charge
of production of Canadian
Breweries, and Mr. Stanley
Parker, production-manager of
Carling Breweries, one of its
subsidiaries.
Major Ward said that in his
opinion the new process was of
tremendous importance to the
whole brewing industry. Mr.
Parker described it as the
greatest development in the
industry since Pasteur’s fermen-
tation discoveries in 1860.
Clyde’s Diesel Order
pLYDE ENGINEERING Co.
Pty., Ltd., chief subsidiary
of Clyde Industries, has booked
an order with the N.Z. Govern-
ment for 10 diesel-electric loco-
motives of the General Motors
type. The locomotives will cost
about £1 million, and are to be
delivered by June next year. The
order, secured against U.S. and
Canadian competition, is a
feather in Clyde’s cap.
Rayon and Acetate
pOURTAULDS (Australia),
Ltd., has been granted a
10 p.c. tariff on British
continuous-filament acetate yarn
entering Australia; and the 6d.-
a-pound bounty continues as
well until June, 1959. The tariff
can’t be used to raise the price
of locally-made rayon yarn, but
it is hoped that it will discourage
overseas imports to the extent
that Courtaulds will be able to
attain their maximum rate of
productivity, which is 75 p.c.
The local demand can be met in
full at an output of about
3,500,0001 b. of yarn a year. Any
appreciable inroad on the
Australian market by imports
will increase Courtaulds’ unit-
costs and ultimately render
uneconomic the Australian
manufacture of acetate yarn.
On cellulose acetate-flake pro-
duced by C.S.R. Chemicals Pty.
for supply to Courtaulds a
bounty of lOd. a pound will be
paid. The co. has more than
£3 million tied-up in the manu-
facture and financing of this par-
ticular product. The Tariff
Board considers that C.S.R.
Chemicals has made substantial
reductions in its costs “after
strenuous and rewarding efforts
since 1953.”
Penneys and Coles
'T'HE deal between Burns Philp
and G. J. Coles for the sale
by B.P. of all the shares in
Penneys, Ltd., to Coles has at
last been completed. Details to
be announced later.
Elder Smith and Moreheads
-OLDER SMITH and Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide, is offering 29 of
its own 125.-paid shares for each
10 fully-paid £1 shares in More-
heads, Ltd., the Brisbane wool-
broker, and 29 Elder Smith
shares for each 40 Moreheads
55.-paids. The offer, on present
market-prices, is equal to 655.
for each Moreheads £1 share.
But the price offered for More-
heads contribs. ignores the
equity involved in the uncalled
capital, and should be reviewed.
Otherwise holders of the
contribs. are unlikely to agree to
the proposal.
Oil Search Up
C| HARES in Oil Search, Ltd.,
are now the leading oil-
counter on Australian Stock
Exchanges. They have run up
to 17s. 6d. in a mild flurry of
interest recently, and compare
with 15s. for Ampol Exploration
scrip.
There has been little informa-
tion of an official nature to pro-
mote any special activity in Oil
Search shares. At the annual
meeting of British Petroleum
Co., Ltd., in London on June 7,
in connection with the activities
of Australasian Petroleum, Ltd.,
in Papua, chairman B. R. Jack-
son summarised the position:
In Papua, the well drilled at Omati
to over 13,000 ft., after a number of
setbacks, was abandoned when gas
indications proved without com-
mercial significance. Geological and
geophysical surveys, often in most
adverse climatic and jungle conditions,
have revealed several promising
structures. In one of these, the Kuru
anticline, the first well encountered a
large flow of gas at under 1000 ft.,
and a relief-well is now being drilled
in order to bring the gas-flow under
control.
We plan to drill wells on two other
locations, Barikewa and Morehead,
later this year. We are continuing
to maintain two geological and three
geophysical parties in the field. Since
our two Australian associated com-
panies operating in Papua began work
in 1938, their expenditure in this area
has amounted to some £14,500,000, of
which the B.P. share has been
£6,500,000.
Oil Search, Ltd., has a one-
tenth interest in whatever may
ultimately come out of the
activities and expenditure.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C.. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MORE THAN
HALF
A MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE
CHEQUE
ACCOUNTS
WITH THE
“WALES”
/ C# \
f ■ V (Jfr » |
1
To open a cheque account,
call at any branch of the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5612C
GENERAL
CREDITS LTD.
offers ♦
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Rates of annual interest rising from 3| per cent,
for 3 months to 7\ per cent, for 5 years and
over. Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 7 per cent, com-
pounded on yearly rests with currencies of 5
to 15 years. Prospectus available at all
branches of Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia, Members of the Stock Exchange and
Offices of the Company.
Directors: Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G. (Chair-
man), J. M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low (Managing),
E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric Hughes, J. F. Hughes,
F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
ass
!i£is
i V Jf'J >’ ' ' , " v
.
■ : a. ■ :. V r:'
UNDERWRITERS:
B
MlHi
&
SON
General Credits Ltd. is sponsored by the
Automobile Fire f and General Insurance
Company of Australia Limited. This is
not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the deben-
ture stock mentioned herein.
4280
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
'T'HE most notable thing about
the N.Z. Government’s £ 10-
million loan, now on the market,
is the modest amount sought.
Investors had expected that it
would be much larger. There is,
of course, nothing to say that the
Government won’t come back
for more later in the year.
Considered apart from spend-
ing, maximum Government
borrowing could have a desirable
effect in combating the infla-
tionary forces which are still
causing some anxiety.
But, meantime, if the Govern-
ment’s moderation is an indica-
tion that it really does intend to
cut spending to the bone as an
example to the private sector, it
is to be commended.
Finance Minister Watts says
that that is its intention. All
Government spending is being
closely scrutinised, and no new
commitment is being entertained
unless it is highly urgent and
essential, he says.
In the financial year to the end
of March the Government was
able to show a surplus in the
Consolidated Fund of £4.2
million after transferring £7.5
million to Public Works
Account. This makes the real
Consolidated Fund surplus £11.6
million. The previous year the
nominal surplus was £6.8 million
and the actual surplus £21.4
million.
But this isn’t the whole story.
When all the accounts within
the Public Account are con-
sidered, it is seen that cash
reserves have declined by £ll
million as result of Government
drawings to finance its works
programme.
Net Government indebtedness
to the banking-system at the end
of March was £50.8 million, £4
million higher than a year before,
and at the end of April it was
£52.1 million, £7.2 million higher
than a year before.
A complete picture of the
year’s operations cannot be
obtained from the figures so far
published, but it does seem that
there is room yet for Government
economy.
Loan Terms
The terms of the new loan are
the same as those of the recent
conversion loan, with the excep-
tion that investors are given the
option of an additional maturity-
date—three years at £4 7s. 6d. per
cent. The five-year rate is £4 10s.
per cent., and the 11-year rate is
£4 12s. 6d. per cent.
With the possible exception of
that for the five-year term, the
returns offered are in line with
current market-yields, but there
are some grounds for the belief
that the Government has lately
been giving the market some
support.
However, the new loan seems
assured of success. It got away
to a flying start with more than
£1.5 million of advance-
subscriptions, mainly by small
investors, and it has been well
timed to catch part of the £6
million which was repaid on
June 15 to holders of a maturing
stock who didn’t take up the
recent conversion offer.
Credit-squeeze
Effects of the credit-squeeze
are becoming increasingly
apparent.
Net overseas assets of the
banking-system reached £lOO.l
million on May 30, compared
with £99.8 million a year before.
Though decimal-points are
necessary to illustrate it, it was
the first time for many months
that assets had exceeded those
at the corresponding time in the
previous year. The total of
£lOO.l million represents a
recovery of £35 million since the
beginning of the year and of £lO
million since the end of April.
The results are encouraging,
but it must be remembered that
it is in the next six months of
the year that imports are
customarily highest and export
income lowest.
The Government is not con*
templating any relaxation of the
squeeze. On the contrary, as a
result of discussions which it has
had with the banks, interest-rates
are to be applied in a new way
which, it is expected, will be
more effective in bringing
overdrafts down.
Another move in the upward
revision of interest-rates has
been announced by the trading-
banks, which are to pay an extra
| per cent, on fixed deposits.
There was an earlier rise in
February. The 24-months’ rate
is now 3 per cent.
Secondary Industries
More protection for Maori-
land’s secondary industries by
way of both tariffs and import-
control is wanted by the N.Z.
Manufacturers’ Federation.
In its submissions to the Board
of Trade, which has been con-
ducting a general review of
Customs tariffs, the federation
said that it sought to safeguard
not only Maoriland industry, but
also N.Z.’s living-standards and
way of life.
The question arises whether
Maoriland can safeguard its
living-standards except by
measures calculated to promote
vigorous economic health, and
whether artificial restriction of
imports, except in very carefully
selected cases, comes in the
category of such measures.
The president of the board,
Sir David Smith, in an off-the-
cuff criticism of the federation’s
74-page submission, said that he
had not found in it any discus-
sion of N.Z.’s basic economic
position. As the population
expanded, funds from the sale of
primary produce might prove to
be insufficient to provide neces-
sary imports, he said, and
secondary industries would never
be able to develop an export
drive if they were going to insist
on high tariffs.
This theme was developed by
three economists of the Canter-
bury University College staff in
one of the most interesting and
significant submissions made to
the board. In essence this is what
they said:
In the next 20 years, it is esti-
mated N.Z.’s population will increase
by 50 per cent., while farm produce
available for export will increase
by only 86 per cent. If this proves
correct, exports of farm produce
will have to be supplemented by
exports of manufactured goods to
provide funds for imports required
to maintain the well-being of the
people.
A gap of 14 per cent, would mean
that the supplement would have to
amount to between £35 million and
£4O million a year at present prices,
and it is most unlikely that this will
be provided entirely by the exports
of the new industry based on
forestry.
Manufacturing industry will be
able to export only if it can compete
in overseas markets, and it is
unlikely that it will be able to do
so if it is working behind a wall
of protection.
The same subject was dis-
cussed by Sir Bruce Levy, former
director of the grasslands
division of the Department of
Scientificand Industrial Research,
in a recent address. He warned
that increasing population would
end in disaster unless secondary
industries made a successful bid
for overseas markets. It would
be madness to imagine that rising
prices for agricultural produce
would continue in future, as they
had over the last 10 years, to
stave off deterioration of living-
standards, he said.
The manufacturers, in support
of their case, said that weekly
hours of work in N.Z. were only
40, compared with 44-45 in
Britain, 48 in Western Germany
and up to 78 in Hong Kong.
Effective hourly wage-rates were
from 68 per cent, to 135 per cent,
higher than in the United
Kingdom.
These figures are no doubt
correct. They do indicate that
Maoriland will find difficulty in
producing manufactured goods
at a competitive price. But do
they, in themselves, constitute
any sound argument for
increased protection? Do they
not, on the other hand, indicate
the urgency of the need to
increase efficiency and reduce
costs in anticipation of the time
when export markets must be
found?
If,New Zealand hopes to sell
manufactured goods abroad it
must be able to offer something
different, something better or
something cheaper. It is hardly
likely to learn to do so in the
hothouse atmosphere created by
high tariff-walls.
Sooner or later the hard
economic facts of life must be
faced. If New Zealanders wish
to continue to work shorter
hours than people in the
countries with which they trade
and at the same time maintain a
high standard of living, they
will have to find some compen-
sating factor in natural resources,
special skills or increased
efficiency.
Under present conditions it is
utterly wasteful to attempt the
manufacture of goods which can
be produced only behind tariff-
protection. Resources of capital
and labor, already tightly
stretched, should be concentrated
on those industries providing the
greatest volume of exchangeable
wealth and the greatest lasting
benefit to the community.
As the Associated Chambers
of Commerce pointed out, tariff-
protection isn’t the only means
of stimulating industrial growth.
Among other methods are the
efficient provision of essential
services such as power and trans-
port, the creation of sound
internal conditions, an equitable
and progressive taxation-system,
the removal of unnecessary
controls over production, distri-
bution, prices and credit, and the
ensuring of adequate labor and
its technical training.
There remains, of course, a
strong case for selective protec-
tion. There can be no quarrel
with the Associated Chambers’
advocacy of protection for
recently established industries
whose inability to compete with
overseas manufacturers is due to
temporary difficulties which can
be expected to disappear with
the passage of time.


Full
time Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency
? . v > COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 187 S
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
TR34.35
NEW SOUTH WALES. DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has, since its inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to
the provision of prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor,
Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
★ It cannot die or leave the country., Its services go on forever.
+ It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
* It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
"*■ Its charges are fixed and moderate.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLI6N STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,457.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
C.S.R., now over a century old, has a
position amongst the largest indus-
trial undertakings in the country. Well
established as part of the Australian
economy, the co. refines and sells (under
Government contract) all but a fraction
of the entire Australian sugar-output,
it owns seven of the country’s 34 sugar-
mills, and is the commercial marketing-
organisation for export raw sugar.
Last term there was no significant
change in the quantity of raw sugar pro-
duced by the co. itself, a slight reduction
in Australian production (231,000 tons)
being offset by an increase in Fijian out-
put (163,100 tons). A 3 p.c. increase in
sales of refined sugar in Australia (to
492,000 tons) resulted in a small reduc-
tion of stocks. New Zealand sales of
refined products rose by 3400 tons to
99,000 tons.
After marking its centenary in the
previous term by adding a 2\ p.c. bonus
to the p.c. dividend, a rate of 10 p.c.
has been declared by the co. for the year
ended March, ’56. This rate, which had
been anticipated by the market, takes
£1,400,000 of the £1,679,636 profit
claimed for the period. Before arriving
at profit an amount of £1,509,528 was
provided for the depreciation and replace-
ment of fixed assets, as well as unstated
provisions for taxation and contingent
liabilities.
The earning-rate on capital rose to a
little under 11.9 p.c., as against 11.2, 10.1,
10, 8.9 and 8.3 p.c. during the previous
five years. On total shareholders’ funds
the return was a shade under 4.7 p.c.:
Year Replace-
Ended ment, etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
9 p.c.
:951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
Share premiums, £273,000 2,499,249
1952 .. 1,154,444 1,158,300 2,495,393 10,983,539
Share premiums, £273,000 2,768,393
From inner res., £3,498,514 6,266,907
1953 .. 1,366,394 1,228,500 6,404,801 11,710,311
1954 .. 1,417,943 1,263,600 6,559,144 12,807,355
12 p.c.
1955 .. 1,575,901 1,684,800 6,450,245 13,949,946
10 p.c.
1956 .. 1,679,636 1,404,000 6,725,881 15,209,992
Including the replacement and deprecia-
tion reserves, net tangible cover, on con-
servative book-values, was £5l ss. per
£2O fully-paid share.
Improvements and additions to refin-
eries, mills and premises during the
last term resulted in an amount of over
£2 million being added to their book-
value. Debtors, loans and advances, etc.,
have more than doubled, increasing by
over £6 million to £11.5 million, creditors
and bank-overdraft carrying the greater
part of the increase. The co. has not
explained this large growth, but it is
typical of present-day trading conditions:
1954. 1955. 1956,
Paid capital .. £14,040,000 £14,040,000 £14,040,000
Reserves .. 6,559,144 6,450,245 6,725,881
Depreciation re-
serves . . 12,807,355 13,949,946 15,209,992
Creditors, etc. 12,915,732 11,111,462 15,316,452
Overdraft .. 1,483,971
Debentures . . 7,000,000 7,000,000 7,000,000
Employee de-
bentures .. 150,860 138,670 156,810
Final div. .. 631,800 1,053,000 702,000
£54,104,891 £53,743,323 £60,635,106
Refineries, mills,
etc 26,724,652 29,110,072 30,971,163
Ships .. .. 351,216 446,589 729,931
Distilleries . . 990,718 1,087,673 1,174,208
Premises .. 296,299 318,585 382,281
Stocks. . .. 9,509,251 11,075,966 10,225,670
Book debts, etc. 6,565,921 6,489,176 12,506,347
Investments . . 4,788,339 4,828,868 4,593,958
Cash and de-
posits .. 4,878,495 386,894 51,548
£54,104,891 £53,743,323 £60,635,106
During 1955 the formula for assessing
the price of raw sugar under the British
Commonwealth Sugar Agreement was
reviewed, resulting in the confirmation
of the price-formula system (the price
for 1956 is to be £4O 15s. stg. a ton, the
same as for 1955), and the extension of
the agreement until the end of 1963.
The price applies to export-quotas of
314,000 tons p.a. from Australia and
125,000 tons from Fiji.
Although sugar is the main source
of income, the continued development of
the building-materials division and the
chemicals offshoots represent heavy
capital-investment, with sales in both
fields last term showing a 25 p.c. increase
over the previous year’s figures.
The recent Tariff Board decision to
grant a 10 p.c. protective tariff
as well as a bounty on imported
acetate rayon-yam, following representa-
tions by Courtaulds, will be of interest to
the subsidiary (C.S.R. Chemicals) con-
cerned with the production of cellulose
acetate (on which a bounty of lOd. a
pound is also being granted) for Cour-
taulds. Extension to plant and a larger
range of products should assist the
building-materials and chemicals under-
takings to meet any increase in demand ;
though homebuilding is at present
slacker, commercial building is more
active.
The subsidiary, Australian Blue
Asbestos, mining at Wittenoom (W.A.),
has so far been unable to contribute to
the profits of the parent, but with the
assistance of subsidies from both the
W.A. and Federal Governments, together
with overseas orders of some size, the
prospects of profitable operations in the
future appear a little brighter.
The sharemarket has for some time
noted that the capital-outlay in the
building-materials, chemicals and mining
ventures is taking time to digest and yield
profits in keeping with the sugar side of
the business. This is natural enough. In
the present depressed market, £3B 15s.
is paid for the f.-p. £2O shares, compared
with £4l 2s. 6d. a year ago. Present
yield is 5.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Younghusband, Ltd.
season has followed upon good
season for grazier and pastoralist in
most parts of Australia for an extra-
ordinarily long period now, and the
outlook this year is just as encouraging.
With the rabbit-population depleted by
myxomatosis (a decline in its potency has
been evident, however) and other
measures, and taxation-concessions to
stimulate expenditure on property-
improvement, the country’s grazing-lands
carry a greater number of sheep and cattle
than ever before.
Under these conditions a record volume
of wool and meat was produced last
year, but it wasn’t enough to offset the
effect on incomes of the lower prices
obtained. In the 11 months to May 31
wool-realisations were over £24 million
less than for the same period of last year:
11 Mths. Bales Average
to May, Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1955 .. 3,593,607 £324,321,380 £9O ss. Od.
1956 .. 3,883,928 299,995,915 77 4s. lOd.
This season’s average price of 61.14 d.
a pound for greasy wool compares with
an average of 72.04 d. in 1954-55,
although prices for better grades of wool
are now well above those of a year ago.
Woolbrokers and stock - salesmen,
Younghusband’s participated in the
bigger volume of business. Turnover of
stock was an all-time record, as was the
130,561 bales (121,355 in ’54-’55) received
during the year. Sales amounted to
123,063 bales (112,798), leaving 20,435
bales (12,937) to be carried forward to the
new financial term. Wool sales in Aus-
tralian centres this season will continue
until early July.
Gross earnings were up £38,230 to
£1,127,935, of which expenses took
£821,106 (up £63,201), depreciation
£32,847 (up £3281), taxation £109,000
(down £6000) and appropriations to the
staff fund £20,000 (up £1000), leaving a
net profit of £144,982:
To Re- Re-
Mar.. Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) Inq 097079.
Written off goodwill, £l5OO J lua dZY,y ‘ Z
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. §2,306 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) 104
Written off goodwill. £16,584 j lz,zzz
1951.. 158,243 12* p.c.=109,375 48,868 485,062
1952.. 88,857 10 ~,, 87,500 ) 40^410
Written off goodwill, £lOOO j 601 4 '
1953.. 73,230 8 p.c. = 70,000 3,230 488,649
1954.. 140,354 12* „ ~109,375 30,979 519,628
Written off goodwill, £4OOO . . .. 515,628
1955.. 168,234 12 p.c. =147,000 21,234 536,862
Profit &ale assets, £37,000 .. .. 573,862
Written off goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 570,862
1956.. 144,982 10 p.c. =122,500 22,482 593,344
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
The smaller showing represented
11.8 p.c. on paid capital of £1,225,000 (as
against 13.7 p.c. in 1955 and 16 p.c. in
1954), on which the co. declared a 10 p.c.
div., omitting the bonus distributed in the
previous years.
The company has been in the wool-
broking, pastoral-finance, merchandising
and agency business since 1889, during
which time it has established itself in 51
towns in Victoria and southern N.S.W.
About half these branches have been
opened in the last ten years.
Advances to growers, etc., up £250,996
to £2,218,193, and amounts collected on
wool sold not yet distributed (up
£218,625 to £2,362,907), were almost self-
balancing items. Another £13,688 of
merchandise was carried and £15,997
added to cash, etc., which stood at
£1,354,837 at March 31:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £875,000 £1,225,00P £1,225,000
Reserves . . . . 519,628 536,862 593,344
Creditors, etc. .. 2,820,472 2,144,282 2,362,907
Tax provision . . 110,000 115,000 109,000
Staff fund .. 24,500 32,302 37,104
Final div. .. 74,375 98,000 73,500
£3,923,975 £4,151,446 £4,400,915
I,and. buildings . . 545,540 568,374 531,458
Plant .. .. 171,878 195,800 201,504
Merchandise .. 30,751 81,235 94,923
Advances, etc. .. 1,588,280 1,967,197 2,218,193
Cash, etc 1,587,576 1,338,840 1,354,837
£3,923,975 £4,151,446 £4,400,915
Not too worried about the future, the
market prices the scrip at 31s. (about the
same as a year ago, when the div.-rate
was 2 p.c. higher) to return 6.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. Net “tangible asset
backing on disclosed book-values is
295. Bd.
Australia Silknit, LtcL
A MONG leading textilers who have
published trading - accounts lately,
several have recorded spectacular
collapses in the profits of the last 12
months or so. In the case of a couple of
cos. the news has been followed by a
solid marking-down of share-prices on
the Stock Exchange.
The troubles of Australia Silknit, which,
on a turnover only a little below that for
1954, disclosed a £51,804 drop in earn-
ings (to £20,600) for the year to Decem-
ber 31 last, sprang from a combination of
unfavorable weather and stiff competition
within the trade which kept profit-margins
at an unsatisfactory level. Nylon and
cotton were in greater demand for
women’s underwear and nightwear, also,
and this meant shorter production-runs
over a wider range of materials, thus
adding to costs:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. Pref. r~ —-Ord. —— N serves. serves.
31, 7 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
From tax stock provisions, £12,200.. 147,014
Written-off intangibles, £ll4 ~ 147,128
1950.. 44,246 4200 15 =18,150 21,896 169,024
1951.. 42,706 4200 15 = 18,150 20,356 189,380
Exchange refunds, £2373 .. . . 191,753
1952.. 56,344 4200 15 = 18,150 33,994 225,747
Exchange refunds, £lB2l .. .. 227,568
1953.. 72,765 4200 17* = 21,175 47,390 274,958
1954.. 72,404 4200 171 = 21,175 47,029 321,987
1955. 4200 124 = 15,125 1,275 323,262
Written after providing £14,592 (up
£1136) for depreciation, £lB,OOO (nothing
last year) against fluctuations in raw-
material costs, and £31,502 (down £4545)
for taxation, the £20,600 was enough to
cover the 7 p.c. pref. div. and show 13.6
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with the
56.4 p.c. exhibited in 1954, but the
company’s financial position is strong,
and, notwithstanding the slimness
of the cover, a final ord.-div. of 1\ p.c
was declared, making \2\ p.c. for the
year. It could also be taken as an indi-
cation of the directors’ hopes that some
of the difficulties evident last year may
clear-up as the import-flow slackens over
the current term.
On ’Change last sale of the ss. shares
was recorded at 13s. Since then buyers
have offered around 7s. for the scrip
against the 10s. asked for by sellers. Yielc
at the mid-price of Bs. 6d. would be 1. 1
p.c. on the basis of a \2\ p.c. div. In
1955, in anticipation of capital benefits
the shares sold up to 17s.
The co. makes women’s and children’s
underwear and pyjamas in factories
located in N.S.W. at Erskineville
Wollongong, Young and Swansea. Dis-
tribution is handled by branch-offices
set-up in each State.
In the balance-sheet fixed assets appear
at £249,687, less depreciation of £157,684
a net figure for all land, buildings, plant
and machinery of £92,003. Cost is taken
as the basis of entry except for valua-
tions given to plant and machinery in
1936. The inner-reserves covered-up in
these figures are something for the
investor to guess at, but the prospect of
their being tapped for the direct benefit ol
shareholders has been made very remote
by the present trading-conditions. Never-
theless, they add considerably to the net
tangible support for share-capital pro-
vided by visible reserves:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £90,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ord. ..' .. .. 121,000 121,000 121,000
Surplus 274,958 821,987 823,262
Creditors .. .. 74,015 69,478 82,723
Staff funds . . .. 8,660 10,650 12,277
Tax provision . . .; 127,495 98,308 77,812
Dividends .. .. 14,200 14,200 11,175
£680,328 £695,623 £688,249
Land, buildings, plant.. 80,748 89,583 92,003
Stock 495,463 438,600 437,505
Debtors 73,446 85,722 81,279
Pash, etc 30,671 77,462
£680,328 £095,623 £088,249
Despite the unsatisfactory year, the liquid
position was maintained at about the
1954 level. At the end of the term
working-capital stood at £412,259.
Raleigh Preserving Co., Ltd.
"PROM small beginnings just over 25
years ago, when tomato-sauce was its
only product, Raleigh Preserving has
developed into a sizeable canner and
bottler of food. At factories at West
Brunswick and Pakenham, in Victoria,
vegetables, soups, fruit and meat are
turned-out for local and overseas markets.
A subsidiary concern, Raleigh Containers
Pty., Ltd., makes the cardboard-boxes in
which the company’s products are
packed, and supplies containers of
various types to outside customers. The
co. doesn’t grow its own vegetables, etc.,
but to ensure the production of the right
varieties it provides contract-growers with
selected seed and advises on planting and
harvesting.
To obtain additional funds for the
business, Raleigh converted to a public
company in 1950 and soon after issued
£90,000 of ordinary capital. In 1951 a
further £90,000 of ord. scrip was raised
to help finance the erection of the cannery
at Pakenham. But while Raleigh has
been expanding its output, other canners
have been busy increasing theirs, too. As
a result profit-margins have been kept
pretty fine.
Most of the co.’s production is sold
abroad, although lately more attention
has heen given to increasing sales on
the more profitable home-market. Its
own distributor in Victoria, Tasmania
and metropolitan Sydney and N.S.W.
country areas, the co. is represented by
agents in the United Kingdom, other
Australian States and Newcastle and
Wollongong in N.S.W.
On sales of more than £l* million, an
increase on the previous term, net profit,
after providing £2B less for depreciation
(£18,986) and an extra £1941 for taxation


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ceys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
trade Marks.— Adyt.
Missing Friends
WOULD GEORGE EDWARD MILLER,
formerly of Footscray, in the State of Vic-
toria, but now of parts unknown, believed
to be in Queensland, or any person know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate
with JONES & KENNEDY, 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray.
WOULD the next-of-kin of the late SILAS
JAMES STRICKLAND, aged 84 years, or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, kindly
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Sydney ?
36in,
Si
.
■
V>
'■ : v-
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of '‘Curvilinear*’
Mining Tables, Sapid Magnetic Machines and
Elliaon Switch Gear.
because a one-man chain saw needs plenty
m
.One;
Man
PWMN saw]
gives you all the power you need
to fell trees up to 3 ft. 3 ins. diameter
A chain saw is something you want to be able to carry about with
you just like an axe. Therefore, a chain saw must be light. And
take a bushman's word for it, Mobilco is light . . . but when you
get to the tree you must have power, and power to spare. That's
Mobilco power and power to spare. A genuine, surging 5 b.h.p.
to cut deep into tough Australian hardwood with
steady, sure-fire efficiency.
V
■
Look at this little beauty; light enough for a light-
weight to carry about ... as sturdy as the timber
in which it works. You've got it all in Mobilco . ..
quick-action clutch, blade turns for felling or scarfing
position, engine and carburettor always remain in
the same position; rubber-covered forearm grip,
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mob;!eo
chain saw.
fingertip chain oiler; good quality tools and fuel
can; and a THREE MONTHS GUARANTEE. Don't let a
day pass until you know the full "Mobilco Story".
Send in the coupon today. TERMS AVAILABLE . . .
You can buy the Mobilco for £7B/-/- deposit (Cash
Price, £196/10/-). That's mighty good value for a
hard-working, timesaving Mobilco Chain Saw.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONE* YX 1244.5
Wlf277°/n C 0 E i °' 4l6 _ WH ' teh °RSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
agentV 10 L,NES) ‘ Benches: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
(£22,168), was £33,187, after
preference dividends, equal to
11.7 p.c. on ordinary capital as
against 12.2 p.c. in 1954 and
3.6 p.c., 8.4 p.c., 13.3 p.c. and
16.7 p.c. back to 1950:
Raleigh Preserving and Subsidiary.
r - Dividends ■,
Pref. Re-
Dec., Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 22.433 1500 8 p.c. = 10,000 21,032
Goodwill written off, £1099 .. 20,533
Tax underprovided, £3967 .. 16,506
Preliminary exes., £97 .*. 16,469
1951.. 493 1500 8 p.c. - 14,400 26,062
Tax underprovided, £1964 .. 24,098
1952.. 1500 4 p.c. = 9,900 35,011
Profit sale assets, £Bl4 .. 35,825
1953.. 296 1500 3 p.c. = 8,100 36,521
Tax overprovided, £949 .. 37,470
Profit sale assets, £132 .. 37,602
1954.. 1500 0 p.c. = 16,200 54,433
Tax overprovided, £338 .. 54,771
Profit sale assets, £2645 .. 57,416
1955.-33,187 1500 6i p.c. = 17,550 71,553
The sale of fixed assets produced
a surplus of £2645, which,
together with the balance of the
year's profit after distributing
£19,050 to shareholders, added
£16,782 to reserves. Payment
of a 3{ p.c. final ord. div. (mak-
ing 6| p.c. for the year) may
indicate a 7 p.c. dividend this
term, though no doubt much
will depend on the size of the
overdraft. At present quoted on
’Change to give an immediate
return of 8.8 p.c. on the basis
of a 6| p.c. div., the ss. ords.
bring only 3s. Bd.
Finances disclose a good
balance between shareholders’
funds and outside commitments
and a comfortable degree of
liquidity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Ord. .. 270,000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 36,521 64,433 71,553
Overdraft . . 82,003 55,223 91,527
Creditors . . 48,062 67,785 74,334
Tax provision 17,750 24,353 40,687
Final div. . . 8,600 8,600 9,950
£492,936 £510,394 £588,051
Freeholds . . 144,558 154,514 169,903
Plant, etc..', 88,503 94,885 94,198
Stocks .. 185,976 234,710 257,018
Debtors .. 71,156 21,661 61,831
Cash, etc. .. 2,742 4,623 5,100
Goodwill .. 1 1 1
£492,936 £510,394 £588,051
During the year new freezing-
room capacity was built at West
Brunswick to store the bigger
quantities of meat being handled.
A new line of American-style
rectangular canned-pack was
introduced which is reported to
have been well received in the
U.K. and elsewhere overseas.
Preparations are also being made
at Pakenham to increase fruit-
and vegetable-production in the
1956 season.
Net tangible asset cover for the
ordinary shares is 6s. and for
the prefs. £ll 16s. 3d.
Hopkins Odium, Ltd.
YX/ITH little extra outlay on
working-assets, Melbourne
machine - belting manufacturer
Hopkins Odium, Ltd. (the word
“Holdings” was dropped from
the title a couple of years ago),
did creditably well last term to
show a slight gain on the greatly-
improved profit recorded in 1954,
when business activity was rising.
Turnover was maintained in
1955, but competition was keener
and the problem of costs
particularly troublesome.
After writing-off an extra
£lll (£6465) for depreciation
and £lOOO less (£30,000) for
income-tax, the actual lift in
earnings was £713. Easily main-
tained at 10 p.c., the dividend
absorbed £20,000, leaving
£33,406 to strengthen reserves:
Hopkins Odlum and Subsidiary.
, Dividends Re-
Dec., Prft. Pref. r Ord. x serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £8536 .. 719
’52..18,311 171 8 p.c*.— 6,000 12,859
Tax overprovided, £lO,OOO .. 22,859
’53..31,953 1,250 8 p.c. = 16,000 37,562
’54..52,693 582 10 „ „ 20,000 69,673
’55..53,406 10 „ „ 20,000 103,079
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52.
Allowing for divs. paid on
the pref. capital up to the time of
its redemption in 1954, the
£53,406 of profit was equal to
26.7 p.c., compared with 26.1 p.c.
in 1954, 15.4 p.c. 1953, and 9.1
p.c. in 1952.
Redemption of the £25,000 of
prefs. has been the only change
in capital-structure since forma-
tion of the holding-co. in 1952.
Shareholders of Hopkins Odium
Pty. received £200,000 of fully-
paid ord. capital in the new co.
in exchange for their 76,875 £1
shares, and, with the proceeds of
the sale to the public of 100,000
of these shares, subscribed for
the prefs., which were to be
redeemed before 1973.
The business has been
functioning since 1890. Its chief
manufactures are leather and
rubber transmission - belting,
adjustable V-link belting and
conveyor- and elevator-belting
which are marketed locally and
in New Zealand.
The financial position looks
secure. At the date of the
balance-sheet on December 31
last over 70 p.c. of the funds
used were controlled by share-
holders. Current assets covered
liabilities more than two-and-a-
half times:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £25,000
Ord. .. 200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves . . 37,562 69,673 103,079
Mortgage .. 36,500 29,500 28,500
Overdraft .. 16,446
Creditors .. 17,697 31,178 61,178
Staff fund .. 835 6,060 6,125
Tax provision 17,519 26,770 15,165
Pinal div... 9,625 12,000 12,000
£344,738 £391,627 £426,047
Freeholds . . 109,333 109,441 119,188
Plant, etc. .. 58,381 59,460 65,767
Shares .. 1,132 1,132 1,132
Stock .. 101,471 132,054 147,116
Debtors .. 43,818 54,393 55,880
Cash, bonds 30,603 35,147 36,964
£344,738 £391,627 £426,047
Addition of £9747 to the co.’s
freeholds during the term was
accounted for chiefly by the
purchase of properties adjoining
the co.’s factory at West
Footscray (Melbourne). Part of
the land has been used for the
erection of a new amenities-block
for employees. Expenditure on
plant, fittings and equipment
amounted to a net £6307. To
the extent that this figure repre-
sents outlay on the new amenities
section it won’t be reflected
directly in earnings.
Stocks w r ere £15,062 higher at
£147,116, and debtors at £55,880
were up £1487. Sales for the
first two months of the current
term were about the same as the
corresponding period last year,
but the slower rate of industrial
expansion and recent wage-
increases indicate that, as well-
placed competitively as Hopkins
Odium is, there is a difficult year
ahead.
Regarded a little cautiously by
the market, the 10s. shares fetch
around 13s. 9d. at present to yield
7.3 p.c. on the well-covered
10 p.c. div. In 1955 sales ranged
between 14s. 3d. and 12s. Net
tangible asset cover is 15s. 2d.
High Plant Cost
'THOUGH some parncujariy
rich pitchblende has been
found at El Sharana (N.T.) by
United Uranium, N.L., the
directors are hesitant about
establishing a treatment-plant
at the mine. Overall, cost
of a plant is put at
£li million. Alternatively, the
directors are considering the
marketing of pitchblende ore-
reserves in their crude state.
North Australian Uranium
Corporation, operating in the
South Alligator River (N.T.)
area, has already been subdued
by the prospective cost of plant-
erection. It is a fundamental
problem of N.T. uranium-
mining.
Costly Oil-exploration
"pROM L. Owen: The order
A for the winding-up of West-
land Oil Co., Ltd., on the
ground that it could not pay its
drilling-costs in full, is another
illustration of the very high
expenditure which can be
incurred in the search for
indigenous petroleum, quite
apart from the legitimate hazards
and uncertainties of the oil
game.
In this case the company—
quite wisely, in view of its
inexperience on the producing
side—arranged to have its
drilling done by contract.
Apparently it was not perturbed
by the fact that the contractors’
estimate (subsequently proved
to be highly optimistic) of
£190,000 for the job would
swallow-up a huge proportion
of its working-capital. Actually,
before drilling commenced,
£247,000 of a subscribed capital
of £530,000 had been paid-up,
thus leaving a sum inadequate
to cover the cost of the geologi-
cal exploration necessary to
justify the outlay of the large
amount estimated for well-
sinking expenses in difficult
wildcat oil-country.
Actually, under its contract,
the co. paid out £312,150 to the
drilling - organisation, which
claimed that a further £46,649
was owing. In return, the share-
holders got a total of 16,603 ft.
of useless hole for which they
paid almost £2O per foot. Had
Westland been solvent the cost
would have been over £2l a foot
for what can be described by
modern standards as shallow
drilling. No. 1 well reached
5325 ft., No. 2 5224 ft., and No.
3 stopped at 6054 ft.!
A lesson can be learned from
these figures which led to the
failure of a well-intentioned but
amateur group of oil-seekers. It
is that the chances of success of
striking oil in Australia are
jeopardised unless the executive
and technical staff are endowed
with the knowledge which comes
from experience acquired only
in oil-producing regions.
It is doubtful, however, if this
very obvious truth is being taken
seriously. One co. —whose past
history does not indicate any
outstanding qualifications for the
job—is contemplating, with less
than £lOO,OOO cash in hand,
“vigorous exploration” of very
extensive areas comprising some
of the most difficult —both
geologically and topographically
—terrain on the mainland.
Another co., with even less cash
available, has announced its
intention of undertaking an
intensive examination—followed
“in the near future” by drilling
—over an area not far short of
10,000 square miles.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Cold westerlies and rain (some of it
radioactive); cricket-broadcasts at mid-
night, and how hard it is to find out the
score; “The Summer of the 17th Doll
to be produced in London; the 127
whales which committed suicide on
Treachery Beach (a theme for a poem,
surely); the “Tintookies”; the reconcilia-
tion of Queen Juliana and Prince Bern-
hard ; the fatal day when tram-fares and
train-fares will go up approaching faster
than the trams and trains themselves —-
these have been main topics of conversa-
tion during the week.
☆ fir fir
Wedding of the week was that of
Susan McCathie, who is the younger
daughter of the John McCathies, of
Vaucluse, to Rodger Kelly, youngest son
of the W- M. Kellys, of Cooringle,
Boorowa. The bride wore a classical
gown of heavy white satin, and her elbow-
length veil flowed from a white-satin
circlet. Her matron-of-honor, Mrs.
Graham Nock, and her bridesmaids, Beth
Kelly and Janette King, wore full-length
dresses of blue velveteen, with round
necks and short sleeves. The color blue
was picked-up in the bride’s bouquet of
lily-of-the-valley, hyacinths and forget-
me-nots. Reception was held at the home
of the bride’s parents, The Hermitage,
.Vaucluse.
fir fir fir
At this almost flowerless time of the
year it was refreshing to see the charming
decorative scheme which hostesses Mrs.
W. J. Dakin and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn
had created for the At Home of the
Royal Empire Society’s Ladies’ Auxi-
liary during the week. Clusters of
poinsettia in bronze containers repeated
the colors of the red candles in bronze
candlesticks, and a great bowl of
autumnal hydrangea gave a subtle con-
trast. The wives of the heads of the three
Services —Mrs. E. W. Woodward, Mrs.
A. L. Walters and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan —
were guests-of-honor, and among those
who attended were Lady Berryman,
Lady Harrison, Lady Steven and Miss
Doris Fitton, who, with Miss Joan Bray
and Mr. Edward Lowe, presented a por-
tion of the play “A Question of Fact,”
which is currently running at the Inde-
pendent Theatre.
fir fir fir
Bevies of Sydney’s young sub-debs,
looking very fetching in the varied
costumes of provincial France, served
the French dinner at the Y.W.C.A. on
Thursday. They were students of Red-
lands and Abbotsleigh schools, and had
made their costumes themselves (with
much help from mothers, needless to
say). After dinner they sang several
little French songs with what seemed
impeccable accents, the solo parts being
taken by Anne Woolnough, Ruth Hor-
sley and Diana King. The girls had been
trained by their teachers, Miss Barbara
Fulton and Mrs. Marcel Pile. Mrs. Pile
also prepared the dinner for 100 guests
and dressed some of the French-dolls
which alternated with short red candles
as table-decorations. These dolls are, by
the way, to be sold at the “Y” fete on
July 7. The next International dinner
at the Y.W.C.A. will be the Canadian on
July 19.
#
The prize-winning Australian film
“Back of Beyond,” with films on New
Zealand and New Guinea, formed the
programme for an interesting evening
held in aid of the International Ball
funds at the Shell Theatrette on Friday.
Artist Florence Broadhurst (who is Mrs.
Lewis) was hostess, and the guests,
who numbered about 100, and who stayed
for supper after the films, included Sir
John and Lady McLaren and Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Gurney. The ball, which is to
be held at the Trocadero on August 2, is
in aid of the funds of United Nations.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dated for Friday, June 29, the Pied
Piper Ball at Prince’s, held in aid of the
Spastic Centre, Mosman. President of
the committee is Mrs. Murray Robson,
with vice-presidents Mrs. Barry Brooke
and Mrs. Gordon Ross, and executive-
officers Mrs. Frank Eagle, Mrs. E. Miller,
Mrs. Dan Osborne and Mrs. Sylvia
Quist.
The International Festival of Drama
and Music, which opens at the University
on Saturday, July 7, with three plays in
French, offers a particularly rich pro-
gramme this year. The English plays
include Webster’s “Duchess of Malfi,”
Farquhar’s “Beaux’ Stratagem,” Gilbert
Murray’s translation of Euripides’
“Trojan Women,” and Sheridan’s “The
Critic.”
Special matinees for schools have been
arranged for the plays in French and
the Latin play “Mostellaria” (Plautus),
which is described as a rollicking comedy.
An interesting innovation this year is a
play in Chinese, which will be supported
by the Lion Dance and Oriental dance
and song. The German plays are “Der
Hund in Hirn” and “Minna Magdalena,”
both by Curt Goetz.
In music, the Festival includes “Prima
Donna,” an opera in one act Arthur
Benjamin, and “Savitri,” an episode from
the Mahabharata by Gustav Holst. There
will also be a programme of choral music
of the Renaissance and modern times by
the Pro Musica Society choir and the
boys’ choir of St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
and, on August 1, a Brahms recital by
Muriel Buchanan and Leon Stemler.
* fir fir -
Rachel Roxburgh, back from abroad
nearly a month now, will hold a showing
of her paintings at the Bissietta Galleries
on Tuesday, July 3. Mr. Lloyd Rees will
speak the opening words at 3 p.m.
Lady Bissett, one of Sydney’s liveliest
and most entertaining speakers, sets off
for Hong Kong and the East next month
and when she returns will probably be
much in demand for some of her vivid
descriptions of her travels. Born in
London, Lady Bissett has visited many
exotic parts of the world —New Guinea,
Tahiti, Japan, and she has lived in the
South of France and America —but she
says Australia’s North is as good as any
place she has been to, and that she wants
to go again “before it becomes too civi-
lised."
Lady Bissett and her husband, Sir
James Bissett (formerly captain of the
Queen Mary), have lived in Sydney for
the past eight years, their cottage at
Little Manly, which looks out to sea,
being not so much a place to settle-down
in as starting-point for travels to lands
near and far. Lady Bissett will travel
alone to Hong Kong, as is her custom,
for to travel alone, so she says, is the
way to adventure. Photo by Dayne.
Singer and actress Miss Evelyn
Gardiner returned to Sydney during the
week after a six-months’ visit to England.
Looking remarkably fit, Miss Gardiner
was one of the few who did not complain
of the cold in Sydney; she spoke of the
beautiful “white” winter she had spent in
England.
“Commercial TV,” she says, “has
flooded English homes with kitchen-
comedies, which one sees ad nauseam.
Even in well-regulated homes the children
are out of hand and cannot be kept to
their homework because of the lure of
TV. People turn aside while eating their
dinner to glue their eyes on the screen,
and rush home to be in time to find out
whether the next play they see will be
worse than the last one.” A dispiriting
picture.
Miss Gardiner thinks that our Aus-
tralian actors and actresses will find diffi-
culty with TV because they will have to
act in such a confined space, and will also
have to follow directions of technicians
who are not theatrical producers but are
chiefly concerned with the mechanics of
the production.
☆ fir fir
Madame Dora Scott and Mrs. D. Bali
represented the Elizabethan Theatre Ball
committee at the play-night which the
Main Roads Social and Recreation Club
held on Thursday in aid of the ball-
funds. The plays —“The Derelict,” by
Phillip Johnson, “The Proposal,” by
Chekhov and “The Browning Version,”
by Terence Rattigan—were performed by
■the Ida Newton Players. Lady Rosenthal
and Miss Evelyn Gardiner were among
those who attended.
MELBOURNE
Lady Slim, wife of the Governor-
General, came from Canberra to cut a
blue ribbon and officially declare open,
with some well-placed words of wisdom,
the new babies’ wing of the Fitzroy Day
Nursery. Her Excellency, who wore an
elegant navy ensemble, was received by
the president of the Victorian Association
of Day Nurseries (Mrs. T. C. Dickson),
the organising secretary (Mrs. L. T.
Gedye), and the president of the Fitzroy
Nursery committee (Mrs. L. V. Nolen).
Guests included Lady Selleck (as Lady
Mayoress she is patroness of the associa-
tion), Lady Angliss, Minister for Health
Dr. Cameron, the Mayor and Mayoress
of Fitzroy (Cr. and Mrs. B. Underwood),
the Town Clerk and his wife (Mr. and
Mrs. T. Thorpe), Mrs. H. F. Creswick
and Dr. Barbara Meredith.
Mrs. Edward Campbell, who began her
work for charitable organisations as a
member of Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s
Younger Set, is on the committee organis-
ing the Navy Ball. Educated at C.E.G.S.,
she is the wife of a well-known business-
man.
Always an outstanding social event, this
year’s Black and White dinner-dance at
the Dorchester was even more successful
than usual. The decor included masses
of black and white balloons; on one
side of the orchestra-stand was a prancing
black horse with a flowing mane of white
ostrich-feathers, whilst his companion on
the other side was white with a mane
of black ostrich-feathers. Black-and-
white masks were hung round the walls,
and the small tables were covered with
black-and-white gingham-cloths. The
foyer had a Parisian touch —street-lamps
covered with a trellis of black ivy-leaves.
The function was organised by the
Your Opportunity committee, and pro-
ceeds go to the Thornbury Opportunity
Club and Kindergarten.
Mrs. J. Wilkinson, Mrs. W. McGowan,
Mrs. Tom Carlyon and Mrs. Leo Guest,
all members of the committee, wore
black-and-white gingham-aprons over
their pretty frocks as they served refresh-
ments. Mrs. Leo Curtis, who will
shortly resign from this committee
(having been appointed to the board of
management of the Royal Women’s
Hospital), has done a wonderful job as
president. She wore a slim-fitting gown
of black velvet, the high Empire-bodice
emphasised with a swathing of white
satin, with sash-ends falling to the hem
of the skirt. Her black velvet mask was
edged with white mink. A scarlet-satin
mask in the shape of a butterfly was worn
by Mrs. Alec Finlay with her short
scarlet-taffeta frock, which featured a
harem-hemline. One of the most amus-
ing masks was worn by Mrs. Douglas
Donald, and was made by her medico
husband. Of black-and-white checked-
cardboard, it was made to look like the
front of a cottage, with windows, and
with smoke coming from a tiny
chimney. When she pressed a button,
the windows showed light.
A panel of judges, comprising Mrs.
Harold Holt (whose mask was a lovely
arrangement of white lily-of-the-valley),
Col. R. W. Spraggett and Athol Shmith,
chose Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s mask the
winner. It was of black velvet finished
with tall, slender TV-antennae. Her
husband’s mask matched it.
Mrs. Joan Ente’s lovely gown was of
magnolia satin, the strapless bodice
massed with sequins. Her French mask of
white velvet and feathers was attached
to a long handle. Mrs. Geoff Brewer’s
gown, with its fascinating peacock-hem-
line, was of white guipure-lace. Mrs.
Keith Laycock also chose white guipure-
lace for her short dance-frock, its strap-
less bodice encrusted with rhinestones.
Mrs. A. Atkinson (wife of the chairman
of Opportunity Clubs) chose a full-
skirted gown of mushroom-pink satin,
the skirt finished at the back of the waist
with a large bustle-bow. Kaye Morrison
(public-relations officer) was attractive
in a bouffant gown of pale-blue taffeta
patterned in large pink roses, and with
the strapless top covered with deep-rose-
pink sequins.
* ☆ *
Sydney artist Elaine Haxton designed
the fine sets and beautiful costumes which
were a feature of the Borovansky pro-
duction of the “Nutcracker Suite” ballet
.at Her Majesty’s. Natural and delightful,
Alida Glasbeek danced the child’s part;
and the technical brilliance of Peggy
Sager as the Sugar Plum Fairy and Royes
Fernandez as the Prince in their pas de
deux brought sustained applause from the
huge audience, which included many
children, among them the three dainty
little daughters of Sir Frank and Lady
Tait. Tiny Sally was dressed in an ankle-
length frock of white tulle, with a deep
hem of peacock-blue tulle; her sisters
Isla and Anne were dressed alike in short
white frocks, and all three wore white
nylon-velvet capes brought from America
as gifts by their parents. Lady Tait’s
short black-net frock featured a tiered
skirt, with silver embroideries edging the
neckline.
Little Susan Wright, in a shell-pink
party-frock and white stole, was with her
mother, Mrs. Heathcote Wright, and
grandmother, Mrs. F. H. Wright. With
Mrs. Eccles McKay were her two
daughters June and Diana. Others in
the audience were Mrs, Margaret Saker,
in short sheath-frock of cream guipure-
lace ; Mrs. Harry Scott, who was with
her son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and
Mrs. Alan Scott; Mr. and Mrs. Terry
Vaughan, Mrs. H. Mortimer (whose
daughter Anna Fraser will also dance the
part of Clara in the “Nutcracker Suite”),
and Mrs. Eric Rogers.
☆ ☆ ☆
“I Am a Camera,” the play written by
John Van Druten and based on The
Berlin Stories, by Christopher Isherwood,
is the latest offering at the Arrow Theatre.
This Letter found it crude ; but, as the
Little Theatre has a great following, the
Arrow Theatre was packed with a first-
night audience, which included Mrs.
Rupert Downes, Mr. and Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Jane Casson, Austrian Consul
A. Berger and Mrs. Berger, Mrs. D. J.
Ross, Dr. and Mrs. Harry Furnell, Dr.
Henry Gault, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Pacini and Nona Sheehan.
•fir ☆ *
Cake-bakers, the gage has been thrown
down! In the Homecrafts section of the
Royal Agricultural Show there will be
a special prize of £2O for a cake, the
motif of which must have some connec-
tion with the Olympic Games. It should
appeal to the competitive spirit of the
woman with imagination, the artistic
sense and, of course, the ability to prevent
them sinking in the middle.
fir ☆ ☆
Formerly held on Oaks Night, the
Navy Ball this year will be put forward
to Wednesday, December 5. This was
decided at the first meeting of the com-
mittee, held at the White Ensign Club.
The change was made so that many naval
visitors who will be here for the Olympic
Games can be among the guests. Portion
of the proceeds from the ball will go
towards providing an electric-organ for
the Flinders Naval Depot Memorial
Ohapel. Mrs. R. R. Dowling, wife of
First Naval Member Vice-Admiral R. R-
Dowling, is president of the ball-com-
mittee. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
Edward Campbell (BM 3004), her sister
Mrs. Peter Cox (BJ 5539), Mrs. George
Fowle (LA 4926), Mrs. Richard Chaney
(BJ 5110), and Elizabeth Trumble
(UY 6636).


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MAURICE YOUNG late of Boggabilla.
—TAKE NOTICE that BEULAH YOUNG
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 430(3
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upward If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd of September 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HARRY GRINNELL
SLARKE, Solicitor, 1(34 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD NORMAN WILDING for-
merly of Dalwallinu Western Australia. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PEARL
ELLEN WILDING has commenced pro-
ceedings in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court Perth within forty clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case may
proceed and the Court may pronounce
judgment and make orders against you in
your absence. DATED the 18th day of
June, 1956,—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
SHEILA McCLEMANS, of 98 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO THOMAS JAMES KELLY formerly of
Mull in Street Paddington Brisbane in the
State of Queensland labourer whose
present whereabouts is unknown.- —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ELIZABETH
STEVEN KELLY has commenced an
action against you for the dissolution of
marriage No. 565 of 1956 on the grounds
of your desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend this action you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within
thirty days from the date of publication
hereof You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition from J. F. FITZGERALD &
SEYMOUR, Solicitors, Ascot Chambers,
Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane. —-
E. LARACY, Deputy Registrar.
Missing Friends
ESTATE OF ALFRED MARTINA
McPHARLIN, Deceased.
BY direction of the Supreme Court of
South Australia notice is hereby given
pursuant to the Trustee Act 1936-1953
that all persons claiming, according to
the law of South Australia, to be the next-
of-kin of ALFRED MARTINA McPHAR-
LIN, late of Cordillo Downs Station,
via Mai-ree. deceased (who died on 31st
December, 1953), living at the time of
his death, or the issue or legal personal
representatives of such as are deceased,
are to send by prepaid post to PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 49 Hindmarsh Square, Adel-
aide, South Australia, full particulars of
their claims on or before the 28th
day of August, 1956, . otherwise they
will be excluded from the distribution
of the estate of the deceased. N. 8.:
ALFRED MARTINA McPHARLIN was
born in South Australia in 1886.—FIN-
LA YSON, PHILLIPS, ASTLEY & HAY-
WARD, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide, Soli-
citors for Public Trustee.
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
m %
11
w
BE
mm
Advance booking essential.
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
« Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Dunham and Borovansky
To go from the Katherine
Dunham show at Melbourne
Tiv. to the Borovanskys at Her
Majesty’s is to travel between
two worlds rotating in different
directions. The Dunham show
is a brilliant display of whirling
rhythmic color without the
snobbery of “culture” or the
banality of vaudeville, and where
at the most unexpected moments
even a stage-prop becomes a
graceful dancer.
Though the Tiv. regulars
missed their usual jokes they
were soon won-over by such
whimsical episodes as “Los
Indios,” in which two Indian
women, broken with toil, are
revivified by a passing flute-
player. The regulars who
wanted the suspense of the.
trapeze were soon on the edges
of their seats in “Shango,” a
nerve-racking affair from
darkest Haiti in which a white
cock is sacrificed to the Snake
God.
For the matinee idolators
there were smooth bronze
heroes and chocolate-colored
ladies with flashing smiles and
sinuous bodies, while the
regulars looking for the weekly
blood-tingling were not left
wanting with the Dance of the
Zombies and the fight in
“L’Ag’ya.”
For sheer skill and expressive
and suggestive dancing “Le Jazz
Hot” took the biscuit. One lifts
one’s sombrero to Katherine
Dunham, not so much for her
own dancing, though that is
superb, but for her ability to
translate the dance-language of
her people, so to speak, into
English without losing its
peculiar accent.
The Dunham dancing is good
in its way and the Borovansky
is good in its way, but their ways
are entirely different. The Dun-
ham crowd speak, not to the
head, but to the muscles; the
Borovanskys speak to the head,
and scarcely at all to the muscles.
There is one exception to this,
however. All the Dunham
dancers, singers and musicians
would look and sound out of
place in “Swan Lake,” “Fifth
Symphony” and “Le Beau
Danube,” just as Paul Grinwis
would look completely out of
place in “Shango,” but Kathleen
Gorham would not look out of
place in any of them. There is
the same relaxed quality in her
dancing, whatever the role she is
performing, as in the negroes’,
but it would be difficult to
imagine Peggy Sager, Vassilie
Trunoff or Royes Fernandez
doing the Florida Swamp
shimmy or “Fishtail” or “Snake
Hips.”
♦>
Heinze and Badura-Skoda
In Saturday night’s concert at
Sydney Town Hall, with the
orchestra under the baton of
Bernard Heinze, Paul Badura-
Skoda was soloist in Bela
Bartok’s Piano Concerto No. 3,
a work with nerve-ridden
episodes and cross-grained
rhythms jostling with pages of
reflective placidity. The pianist,
all eager concentration, and with
a deal of fire in the allegro pass-
ages, gave a performance worthy
of better material.
Richard Strauss’s “Bourgeois
Gentilhomme,” which followed
the opening “Meistersingers”
Overture —this played with
something less than justice to its
rich harmonic coloring—shows
no sign of the artistic decline
that was soon to plague the com-
poser for the rest of his life.
Rich harmonies, engaging
melodies and intoxicating
rhythmic devices stud this
charming work, and Heinze had
his forces in the best of trim for
it.
There was fine playing also in
Sibelius’s lordly “Swan of
Tuonela,” its dark spirit the very
antithesis of the Moliere-based
“Gentilhomme.” The work of
the lower strings was outstand-
ing.
«j« ojt
“Elijah”
Mendelssohn’s “Elijah” has
been done so many times in
Brisbane that yet another per-
formance seemed unnecessary.
The Queensland State and Muni-
cipal Choir has been ringing the
changes on half-a-dozen standard
works for so long that they seem
to have forgotten that there are
more exciting and powerful
oratorios, suph as “King David,”
which deserve some attention.
Whatever might be said about
doing “Elijah,” however, there
is no doubt it was done well.
Norman Chinner came from
Adelaide to conduct, and his
reputation for getting the best
out of a choir did not suffer in
this performance. He was given
some beautiful and clear choral
singing throughout the evening,
even when he hardly wanted it.
He was obviously striving
mightily for something like a
savage, pagan sound in the
choruses where the people invoke
Baal; but the choir was con-
vinced that “Elijah” is dramatic
only in a gentlemanly way, and
they could not raise a snarl.
It was good to hear such a
well-balanced quartet of soloists
in a hall where tiny voices are
often lost. Robert Payne, in the
title-role, was in fine and
powerful voice, though he bent
the printed text of the recitatives
to his own will. Florence
Taylor’s contralto made a
complete dramatic interlude of
the part of the Queen, and
Margaret Moore, singing all the
soprano parts, had no trouble in
making a lovely voice float
throughout the hall, particularly
in the haunting part of the
widow.
Tenor William Herbert, mak-
ing the first appearance of
his current tour, sang with
complete professional ease —if
anything, his voice sounds even
richer and fuller than it did on
his last visit, making his concerts
something to look forward to in
the coming months.
D. J. M.
Pro Musica
Professor Donald Peart's selec-
tions for his 31-piece Pro Musica
Symphony Orchestra at the
concert at Sydney University
were “intimate” works admirably
suited to such an ensemble.
Torelli’s “Sinfonia,” serenely
flowing and replete with graceful
harmonies, had crisp attack and
string-tone of nice quality. Tele-
mann’s Concerto for Recorder
and Strings had Trevor Jones as
a competent soloist, but the
weakness of this instrument’s
voice made it a none-too-'
successful battle against the
orchestral force, despite the con-
ductor’s efforts to dampen-down
the volume.
The orchestral writing in
Haydn’s Concerto for ’Cello and
Orchestra is in the Austrian's
most felicitous vein, but that for
the solo instrument is well below
his best work and is not helped
by the cadenza by Pablo Casals.
Nelson Cooke, as soloist, was
not in his best form —under
speed his notes often had a too-
hard edge and were not hit
cleanly in the middle.
Aaron Copland, the contem-
porary American, was repre-
sented by a suite, “Quiet City,”
a formless and unmelodious
piece, but there was plenty of
spirit, wit and rhythmic vigor
in Poulenc’s “Sipfonietta”
(1947).
♦♦♦ *
“Macbeth”
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre productions of Shak-
speare sensibly avoid using
realistic scenery on the small
stage of the Aibert Hall. This
year Rhoda Felgate produced
“Macbeth” in a cleverly-devised
Elizabethan setting complete with
apron-stage and balcony. The
advantages were many. Action
flowed faster than scenery-
changes would have allowed, and
there was an actual gain in
realism. More than once the
front-rows cowered when
Banquo or Drunken Porter came
down the apron into their midst.
Hugh Curnow had a fine
presence for Macbeth, but he
threw away the advantages of a
good voice by chopping his lines
into phrases and clauses, so that
their poetry was lost. As Lady
Macbeth, Gwen Wheeler
assumed a cold malevolence that
was most effective, though it for-
bade any streak of warmth or
tenderness to make her later
madness seem really possible.
Yet the sleepwalking scene did
not lack poignancy.
Many members of the audi-
ence were from schools, and
they felt impelled to act, too.
The result was a fine imitation of
the Elizabethan groundlings,
though one felt that real swash-
buckling Elizabethan actors
would have turned their swords
and pikes against such churlish
listeners.
D.J.M.
“Julius Caesar”
Twelfth Night Theatre having
delighted hordes of noisy senior
schoolboys with “Macbeth,” the
Brisbane Arts Theatre did as
much for the juniors With their
“Julius Caesar.”
Perhaps laughter is inevitable
when a producer is forced to
cram on to a small stage murders,
mob-scenes, battles and suicides.
Jack Hollingworth’s production
could not cope with all this
carnage, but the many instances
of imaginative production far
outweighed the failures.
The excellence of such
occasions allowed one to forget
that none of these players really
possessed sufficient sense of
authority to be an important
Roman citizen. Brian Cannon’s
intense Cassius and Earle Cross’s
Antony came nearest to life, the
latter eloquent in gesture and
speech, but lacking the person-
ality and warmth needed to
make Antony a favorite with
Caesar in this play, and some-
thing more with Cleopatra in its
historical sequel.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursts
Kuring-gai Art
Except for the oils first-prize
to Ronald Steuart’s “Garden
Composition,” a most interesting
departure by this accomplished
watercolorist, Daryl Lindsay
awarded all the major prizes in
the Kuring-gai (N.S.W.) jubilee
art-competition to abstract or
semi-abstract paintings: Roy
Fluke, Frank Hinder and Hector
Gilliland.
Gilliland’s “Evening at
Annandale” (second in the water-
colors) is, as it happens, a very
pleasant sort of yellowish dusk,
but it is obviously absurd thus
to give all the limelight to this
one, strictly-limited, school.
Perhaps there should be a special
prize for abstracts —an unsigned
cheque would be appropriate.
Eileen Mayo’s “Girl with
Cat,” first-prize in the prints, was
an escape from the abstracts —
though her “Woman and Siamese
Cat” would have been a better
choice—as also were Thora
Medhurst’s second-prize “Wiz”
(another cat; which one seems
to have seen before) and the
under-18 prizes which went to
Brian Dunlop and Robyn Welch.
Jocelyn Maughan’s “Old
Houses” might well have got a
prize in this group.
On the whole it was an excep-
tionally good show compared
with the average put on by
suburban councils. Some of the
oils that stood out were by
Herbert Gallop, David Perry,
Reinis Zusters, Douglas Watson,
John Passmore and John Elder-
shaw; and there were water-
colors of quality by Frederic
Bates, Ronald Fletcher and—a
delicate little landscape—Betty
Rowe.
* *
Fiery Mr. Feuerring
Max Feuerring’s exhibition at
David Jones’, Sydney, is of
fairly large oils all shrieking so
loudly in blue, green, red and
yellow that it’s a wonder they
don’t blow the roof off. If the
total effect of a bursting bomb
is a little mitigated when you
try, as far as you can, to take
them one by one, they still go off
like crackers.
He paints landscapes that
don’t look very much like land-
scapes, nudes that don’t look like
nudes, clowns, dancers and
flowers that don’t look like
clowns, dancers and flowers, all
on the surface, all in the vogue,
all decorative enough, all fiery.
So animated an explosion
commands a certain respect; but
on the whole one prefers this
exuberance decently confined in
the little colored-ink drawings
which the artist has exhibited in
the past.
<5«
Colvin Smith
Using a sketch-technique both
in watercolors and oils, Colvin
Smith (Melbourne Athenaeum)
has painted the brick-dust deserts
of the Never Never 100 miles
out from Oodnadatta, and has
succeeded in penetrating a bit
deeper than Albert Namatjira.
Apparently sheep in those parts
have learnt to eat sand, as vegeta-
tion is conspicuous by its
absence; but, if there aren’t any
ghost-trees, there is atmosphere
in his pictures. He brings the
same eye to “Phosphates” and
“Phosphate Ship,” a sensitive
study of the Whyalla business.
»*«
Now Maitland
Maitland (N.S.W.) Show
Society, in conjunction with the
Arts Council and the Maitland
City Council, is the latest
country-centre to decide to hold
an art-competition—in February,
1957.
One-hundred pounds has been
subscribed for a prize in the
open-section ; Maitland Council
is to buy works to the value of
lOOgns.; Maitland citizens have
guaranteed to buy other works ;
and the city intends to form the
nucleus of a permanent muni-
cipal art-collection. William
Dobell will be the adjudicator.
Entry-forms from the Hunter
River Agricultural and Horti-
cultural Association, Box 37,
Maitland ; closing - date,
December 31.
Talkies
“To Paris with Love” (Sydney
Embassy): A polished, gentle
comedy about a wealthy British
widower who takes his son to
Paris for a holiday. Dad falls
for a flapper and the son for a
love-wise woman, and the situa-
tions assay high in chuckles.
Debonair, Homburg-hatted Alec
Guinness carries the chief
burden in his effortless way as
the gay father; he gains more
effect with the faint lifting of an
eyebrow than most actors can
achieve with a whole bagful of
gestures or facial contortions.
“The Man with the Golden
Arm” (Sydney Plaza): An arrest-
ing drama about a drug-addict
whose efforts to break the habit
are constantly frustrated by a
gang who mix drug-peddling
with big-time poker-games, the
drug-fiend’s astonishing luck and
skill being their particular vested
interest. As the addict tied to a
querulous, neurotic wife who
uses a phony invalidism to
tyrannise him, Frank Sinatra
gives his best performance yet.


Brigalow
STORY TO NOW
By
R. S.
PORTEOUS
In less than two-seconds . . .
Bob Anders, 26-year-old bush-
man who has tried-out the city
after Army service, goes to a job
as overseer of Yakaparni cattle-
station far out in Central
Queensland, following his being
interviewed by city bank-
manqger Forster, who has really
engineered the appointment
because he thinks owner Carson
is letting the property run-down.
After his Western Mail trip out,
and a night at the Dilargo town-
ship pub, run by likeable
“Curly” Ryan, Bob forms a good
first-impression of Yakaparni,
finds Carson a good type of
individualist and Mrs. Carson a
still-beautiful woman, quietly
able to manage her explosive
husband and wrapped-up in
their teenage daughter, schooling
in the city. At their first meeting
there’s mutual dislike between
Bob and station permanent-hand
Albert Newton.
CHAPTER IV
ALBERT ran the horses up
next morning and I went
out to the horsey a rd to
look them over.
As the mustering had not
started, there were only a few
quiet working-horses in. Still,
I liked the look ’of them. I
have always fancied the short-
backed, compact type of horse
for stock-work. They are quicker
off the mark and they turn
faster than the leggy racehorse.
If this was a fair sample of
the Yakaparni breed of horses
I felt I was going to be happy
with them. Most of them
showed a trace of Arab blood,
which, to my mind, was another
point in their favor.
“Albert’s going out to look
at one of the mills,” Carson
remarked, joining me outside
the rails. “It might be a good
idea if you went with him.
You’d see a bit more of the
country. It’s a fair way out, so
you’d better cut yourself some
lunch.”
I said, “Right-oh, Mr. Carson.
It’ll do me good to get on a
horse again.”
It also struck me that it would
be a good idea for Albert and
me to spend a day together. I
could have been wrong in my
first impression of him, and it
was only fair that I should get to
know him before forming an
opinion.
“Albert’ll show you where
your saddle and things are,”
Carson went on. “I’ve got a bit
of gardening to do today.”
After breakfast I went out to
the kitchen and cut my lunch,
a job made easy, if somewhat
embarrassing, by the helpful
suggestions of Carrie, the half-
caste maid.
There was no mistaking the
invitation behind Carrie’s flash-
ing brown eyes and gleaming
teeth. She had flashed it to me
across the dining-room table
when she was removing the
dishes the previous night, but I
was not interested.
Don’t mistake me; it was
not a matter of being a saint
where women were concerned.
It was simply that I had no
intention of getting entangled
in a behind-the-chookhouse
affair with the Carsons’ maid,
whether she was black, white or
brindle.
Carrie was not unattractive,
but her charms were not going to
upset my future on Yakaparni.
Albert was in an almost
genial mood when I joined him
in the saddle-room.
“I’d clout on that king-poley
if I was you,” he advised. “It’s
the pick of the spares. The boss
uses the light-poley, and I’ve got
me own.”
I took his advice, because it
was so obviously sound. The
king-poley was a nice, deep-
seated saddle in good condition.
The others, besides being
cumbersome knee-pad types,
which I never liked, had all
seen better days.
“Can y’ ride?” Albert asked,
as I carried my gear out to the
saddle-rail and adjusted my
stirrup-leathers.
It was a standard question, an
apparently innocent one. But
if you answered it with a con-
fident or boastful “Yes” on the
average cattle-station you had
to be really good, because it
wouldn’t be long before you
were called on to prove it on
some horse with a wider reputa-
tion than your own. It was a
poor station that couldn’t boast
of at least one formidable
outlaw.
“No, Albert,” I answered,
“I’m no Skuthorpe. I might
stick a mild pigroot, but it’d
have to be very mild.”
He studied his boots—a habit
he had when addressing anyone
—and said, “Ah, there’s only old
quiet stuff in now, but some of
the musterin’ ’orses’ll ’ump a
bit.”
I wondered how Albert would
go on a rough horse, and
decided he would probably be
“Can y' ride?”
fairly good. With the unflurried
ease of long practice he drafted-
off two sedate-looking mares
and said, “You take the bay
mare, eh? She’s a good walker.”
We caught our mounts and led
them over to the saddle-rail. The
bay mare took the girthing-up
with the bored disinterest of an
old-stager, but flinched when I
ran my hand down over her
rump.
“Does this mare take a
crupper?” I asked.
“Yeah.” Albert slipped his
mare’s tail deftly, through the
crupper. “They’re all broke-in
to it. She jams on it a bit at
first, that’s all.”
She certainly did jam on it.
In fact, she exhibited all the
signs of a horse that had not
been broken-in to one. She laid
her ears back, humped-up and
clamped her tail down like a
vice.
I looked at Albert, but his
broad back was towards me as
he stowed his lunch in his
saddle-pouch. Had I possessed
a fiver I would have been pre-
pared to bet it that he was
having a go at me. As things
were, there was only one way to
find out.
I must admit I had been
unduly modest about my riding-
ability. In the Gulf they used
to say it took a fair horse to
pelt me, and allowing for a
bushman’s habit of understate-
ment, that was quite flattering.
My trouble was that I was a
coward ; the thought of riding
a rough horse always upset me
so much that my knees trembled
as I saddled-up. If I knew over-
night that I would be riding a
tough one next day I couldn’t
eat a proper breakfast.
Now, as I swung the bay
mare’s head away from the rail
and prepared to mount, I found
my knees trembling, which was
absurd. A normally quiet horse
objecting to a crupper does not
buck; he expresses his dis-
approval by kicking-up, and he
usually does his act before you
mount him. I could have tested
the bay mare out by leading her
a few steps, but that would have
been an admission to Albert
that I was scared.
CJHE stood perfectly still while
I eased myself into the
saddle, and only when I touched
her lightly with the spur did she
come to life.
Come to life! She exploded!
I don’t quite know what she
did, or how she did it, but in
less than two-seconds I was sail-
ing over her ears. The fall hurt
nothing except my pride. I was
on my feet immediately in time
to see the bay mare kick-up half-
heartedly a couple of times,
and then stand looking at me, as
much as to say, “Now take the
damn’ thing off and let’s get on
with the day’s work.”
It really was the sensible thing
to do. Unfortunately, I was
not feeling sensible ; I was in
a blind unreasoning rage, trying
to bolster-up my prestige by
telling myself she had caught me
unprepared, when actually the
only thing I had been un-
prepared for was the amazing
speed and violence of her reac-
tions.
If I’d had any guts at all I
would have vented my spleen
on Albert, the deliberate cause
of it all. Instead, I took it out
on the mare, a mild-mannered
old lady who had merely taken
a reasonable, if somewhat un-
usual, method of protesting
against an indignity.
What I did was the act of a
flash blackfellow, without pity,
without intelligence. I swung
back into the saddle, sank both
spurs into the mare’s sides and
hit her down the shoulder with
my hat.
“Now,” I yelled, “let’s see you
do it again, you bitch!”
The poor old dear was in no
condition to do it again. Still
winded from her last violent
effort, and conscious of her
advancing years, she put up a
token effort that any moderate
horseman could have ridden. I
was about to leap off and remove
the offending crupper when I
heard a bellow like an enraged
bull’s.
“What the hell’s going on?”
Carson roared. “There’s enough
buckjumpers on the place with-
out you making ’em! Take the
crupper off that mare. You
know bloody well she won't take
one! ”
Obviously his first remarks
were addressed to me and his
second to Albert. Neither of
us answered. Even if we could
have thought of a suitable
answer we got no chance to use
it, for, having vented his feelings,
Carson slammed the gate and
went inside.
I removed the crupper and
ran my hand gently along the
bay mare’s neck.
“Sorry, old girl,” I apologised.
“I’m a low bloody heel, but I
won’t do it again.”
She moved off normally as I
mounted.
“Put that down as a win to
you, Albert,” I said. “But don’t
try it again.”
He was riding alongside me
then, bridle-reins looped over
his arm as he rolled a smoke,
and he didn’t answer. . .
/"\N Sunday evening the three
extra hands arrived, and on
Monday we ran the horses in
from the big spelling-paddock.
Carson had gone off somewhere
in the utility, leaving Albert in
charge of the horse-muster —a
perfectly reasonable arrange-
ment, since I knew neither the
horses nor the country. Nor was
I due to take-over as overseer
until I had been through a full
muster with Carson. For the
present I was just a spare hand,
watching and learning.
I learned a few things that
day, things that gave me my
first suspicion that Mr. Forster
was better informed about the
running of this place than I had
given him credit for. Several
small mobs of horses eluded us
by doubling-back in patches of
thick timber, and though a
determined effort could have
prevented this, no one made the
effort. Albert seemed to voice
the general opinion when he
remarked that we’d finish-up
with more than we needed,
anyway.
We did. We finally yarded
about sixty-head, though it soon
became obvious that Yakaparni
badly needed the services of a
horsebreaker. The proportion
of unbroken horses was high,


too high, and many of them
were well over the breaking-in
age.
By the time we had drafted-
off the ones we wanted and
turned the main mob out I had
formed a somewhat unfavorable
opinion of Carson’s choice of
men. Two of the newcomers,
the Batson brothers, were
married men with homes in
Dilargo. They had done a lot of
mustering for Carson, but both
were staid types who refused to
ride anything with a tendency to
buck.
The third man was black —
as black as an Aberdeen Angus
bull. I think he had negro blood
in him as well as aboriginal, for
he was a. husky specimen. In
build he was not unlike Albert.
Indeed there was a marked
resemblance between the two
men, despite the difference in
color.
I found out later that they
were half-brothers. This one was
always known as Black Albert,
to distinguish him from his
half-brother, I suppose, though
why the mother should give both
her boys the same name was
something that was to remain a
mystery to me for a long time.
Black Albert was a flash buck.
No other term describes him.
His shirt was louder than any
other stockman’s, his riding-
breeches were tighter, and his
spurs more blatantly evil. But
the masterpiece of all was his
enormous Stetson, a pearl-grey
monstrosity that he wore cocked
rakishly over one bloodshot eye.
I don’t know what color the
original hat-band was, because
he had surmounted it with one
of wide snakeskin, heavily
studded with a variety of nickel
ornaments.
Black Albert walked with a
swagger, and he rode with a
swagger. Before we had the
horses drafted he had boasted to
me that Yakaparni had never
bred a horse that could throw
him. All the same, I noticed that
he declined the wicked-looking
chestnut his half-brother sug-
gested he take in his mustering-
string.
Black Albert, I gathered, knew
the Yakaparni horses, and his
own limitations.
“The ones ’e’s runnin’ off for
you will all root a bit the first
mornin’,” he warned me.
“Nothin’ dirty, though. Only
straight-ahead stuff. Me, I could
ride ’em bareback.”
He waited for my reaction,
and, getting nothing more than
a grunt of ackhowledgment,
went on, “Looks like you and
me goin’ to do all the rough-
ridin’. Albert won’t ride no
buckjumpers. And them two
Batsons couldn’t stick a high
canter.”
He spat in the dust to show
his contempt for all inferior
horsemen.
I got a good indication of his
form when we left for Buckley’s
Yards next morning. Carson
went off with the camp-gear in
the utility, Albert and the two
Batsons saddled their obviously
quiet horses over at the saddle-
rail, while Black Albert and I
saddled-up in the yard. He used
a saddle with tremendous knee-
pads, and he indulged in a lot
of obvious showmanship, adjust-
ing the crupper several times and
tightening the girth till it was
a wonder the poor horse could
breathe. The whole performance
was blatantly prolonged in order
to focus attention on himself and
build up an atmosphere of
tension.
TTHE audience was ready.
Black Albert made very sure
of that. The three men had
mounted the top rail, Carrie was
leaning over the garden fence,
and even Mrs. Carson was
watching from the kitchen-door.
Only the old rousie, Dan, uncon-
cernedly wheeling a squeaky
barrow out to the wood heap,
spoilt the effect of a fully appre-
ciative audience. The old rousie
didn’t even glance in the direc-
tion of the horseyard.
“Well,” Black Albert said,
hitching up his pants with an
elaborate swagger, “anyone
want to make a bet ’e pelts me
this time?”
Assured that no one would
risk money on such a foolish
bet he swung himself into the
saddle, gave the horse its head
and sank both murderous spurs
into its sides.
“Harr! ” he shouted raucously.
“Harr! Harr!”
As a buckjumper the horse
was not spectacular. Goaded by
the spurs it put up a moderate
exhibition and would have been
content to call it off once the
rider had proved his superiority.
But Black Albert was not letting
it call anything off. He raked
the poor animal mercilessly with
the spurs, determined to wring
the last exhausted effort from
it. Only when it came to a
panting standstill in the corner
of the yard and stood quivering,
with blood staining its sweating
flanks, did he desist.
“He want to do better’n dat
to shift Black Albert,” he
boasted, grinning at his audience.
I was disgusted. The whole
business had been revoltingly
cruel and wholly unnecessary,
a nasty example of a flash buck
at his worst. Had I been in
charge I would have sacked him
on the spot. But I was not in
charge. And at the back of my
mind was a guilty feeling of
having done something almost
as bad to the poor old bay mare
a few days before.
As soon as Black Albert
vacated the arena I rode my own
mount, a spirited little brown
mare, with the least possible
fuss. She didn’t buck viciously,
and I certainly did nothing to
encourage her. One horse-
killer on the place was enough.
Albert dropped the rails, let
out our mustering-string and
cantered to the lead. We were
off to Buckley’s Yards, and the
Yakaparni muster was about to
start.
CHAPTER V
T LOOK on that first Yaka-
parni muster as one of the
worst periods in my life. Six
weeks it lasted. Six-weeks’ hell.
The cattle at the top-end of
the run, where Buckley’s Yards
were situated, were not wild;
they were rogues, spoilt by bad
handling. The general pattern of
the muster was sound. Each
morning we divided into two
teams, Albert and the Batsons
in one, and Carson, Black
Albert and I in the other.
We rode out along the ridges,
turning the cattle into the
watercourses and the main
watering-places until we reached
the foot of the ranges. When
we were satisfied we had cleared
“I’m looking for a man to do some breaking..."
a certain section of country
we followed the watercourses
downwards, gathering the cattle
in as we went.
That was the theory of it. But
Carson's cattle had theories of
their own. They knew every
trick in the game, from
doubling-back when you were
not looking, to hiding in every
thick clump of timber. There
were dense patches of wattle
along many of the creeks, acres
of tight-packed saplings where
a cow could stand motionless
and unseen ten-feet from a
searching horseman, and the
older cows took advantage of
every one of them.
We lost quite a few in that
way ; but the real trouble and
heartbreak started when we
finally got the day’s mob
together and commenced the
drive to the yards.
The horses were good, but a
grass-fed horse can only do a
limited amount of hard gallop-
ing. By the time we neared
the yards ours would be dripping
with sweat and too tired to
cope with the job of yarding-
up.
And yarding-up on Yakaparni
was a job. Nine times out of
ten the leaders balked at the
wide-open gateways and started
ringing. Old cows broke and
fled, while we spurred exhausted
horses in futile pursuit. And
above the bellowing of the cows
and the bawling of calves Car-
son’s voice could be heard,
roaring orders that were seldom
understood, cursing us, cursing
the cattle and cursing the dust
that was by then enveloping
everything in a choking, bitter-
smelling cloud.
Heaven alone knows how
many head we lost in those yard-
ings. We, like our horses, were
so exhausted and our tempers
were so frayed we were beyond
caring.
We booted the last motherless
calves in, put the rails up, and
led our panting, sweating horses
over to the horse-paddock.
Night-time in a mustering-
camp is a time for yarning
around the campfire, listening to
someone play the mouth-organ,
or perhaps all joining in with a
gumleaf-band.
We were always too tired for
any of those things. I washed
the sweat and dust off in the
refreshingly cool waterhole;
the others made-do with buckets.
We ate our simple meal and
turned-in, to the accompani-
ment of the ceaseless bellowing
of the cattle in the near-by yard.
Meals in a mustering-camp
are invariably crude, but with a
little trouble and ingenuity they
can be made appetising, especi-
ally for hungry men. Ours con-
sisted of corned-beef and bread-
and-jam. Often my mouth
watered at the thought of the
wild-duck along the half-mile
stretch of waterhole. There
would be fish there, too, I felt
sure.
But there was no time for
fancy cooking under Carson’s
management; no time for any-
thing, it seemed. We worked
from dawn to dark, yet accord-
ing to him we were always run-
ning late. We never boiled-up
our quartpots while the cattle
rested on some shady camp.
There was no time. It was a
case of push on, push on, get
’em to the yards.
And therein, I felt, lay Car-
son’s trouble. He was too
impatient, too irritable and
downright bad-tempered ever to
be a good cattleman. He
cursed men, horses and cattle
impartially, with descriptive
fluency.
I feel sure he never realised
his ability in that field. Quite
often he was completely
unaware that he was cursing.
It was habit, a safety-valve for
his irascibility. Once, hot and
irritable myself and taking
objection to one of his out-
“Same agen, Curl. Stick ’em down with the others.”
bursts, I swung my horse along-
side his and spoke my mind.
“Don’t you use that bloody,
language on me,” I said. “Keep
it for your rotten brumby cattle.
You own them, but you don’t
own me.”
He looked at me in obvious
amazement.
“My goodness, Bob,” he said,
“I wasn’t cursing you. I was
just asking you to keep an eye on
that old sod of a down-horned
cow.”
\I7E did not spend the whole
of that six weeks in camp.
We moved in to the homestead
each weekend, ran-up fresh
horses, and turned our tired ones
out.
On Saturday afternoons
Black Albert and the Batson
brothers rode in to Dilargo.
Sometimes Albert went with
them, sometimes he went
kangaroo-shooting.
How did I put in those week-
ends? Usually I simply loafed
around the house. Sometimes
I greased my saddle and washed
my saddle-blanket, and some-
times I got myself a horse and
went for a ride.
I thought a lot on those Sun-
day rides, and I learned a lot.
On the whole, I enjoyed them.
Parts of Yakaparni were quite
beautiful. Tree-lined creeks,
usually dry, but opening out
every here and there into pockets
of shady quinine-trees and maho-
ganies—cattle-camps, as the
droppings on the carpet of green
couch-grass plainly showed.
Usually there would be a
spring in those pockets, a soak
trickling down to a semi-perma-
nent waterhole where tiny fish
darted in the clear shallows or
lay almost motionless in the
shade of the red-blossomed
bottlebrush-trees lining the
banks.
And then there was the peace,
the knowledge that for the
whole day there was no need to
bustle, or even touch my horse
with the spurs. The only jar-
ring note came from the cattle.
I don’t mean the quality—Car-
son bred good Herefords. It
was their behavior that troubled
me. Carson’s utility never dis-
turbed them, but the sight of a
horseman always started them
streaking off like mobs of
startled ’roos.
As a good overseer, or even
future overseer, I should have
raced to the lead and blocked
each running mob, but I was
hanged if I was going to spend
my Sundays educating Carson’s
cattle.
As a matter of fact, I had
quite early—on my second Sun-
day outing, I think it was—
made up my mind to leave as
soon as the muster was over.
Carson’s ways were not my
ways, and there would have to
be a lot of changes before this
herd could be made into some-
thing any conscientious cattle-
man would tolerate. They
needed dogs, and for some
reason Carson hated dogs.
They needed good, keen stock-
men ; not the type of men he
employed.
VUHEN we shifted-camp to
the Brigalow Yards my
convictions were even further
strengthened. The cattle at that
end of the run were not only
rogues they were wild —really
wild.
There were huge areas of
dense brigalow scrub down
there, and the cattle bolted for
the thickest parts on the slightest
provocation. Once they hit the
wilga and the turkey-bush they
split-up and vanished, and we
had neither the ability nor the
will to get them out.
We collected the bulk of the
cattle, the quieter ones, by keep-
ing in between them and the
scrubs, but we didn’t make a
clean muster, or anything like
one.
Yarding-up at Buckley’s
Yards had been a tough, heart-
breaking job. Here, at the Briga-
low Yards, it was worse.
Once, when we yarded-up as
darkness was setting in, we lost
nearly a third of the mob. It
was a wonder we didn’t lose the
lot. In the semi-darkness the
(Continued on next page )


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” no. 24*
; ;■* V'" ‘:' : . >■■■■■' f ;- v CX, ' ■•. X
I lx \X- }.\. Vv •
■
s mm?
R.M.S. "CHUSAN
The First Mail Steamer
The first steamer to carry mails between
England and Australia reached Sydney on
August 3, 1852.
This ship was the 750-ton Chusan, under
the command of Captain Down. Built of
iron and driven by an 80 horsepower engine
(she was also rigged as a barque), she took
80 days for the journey. Her arrival in
Australian waters was an event of great
importance for, up to that time, the fastest
mail-carrying sailing vessels usually took
between 121 and 130 days on voyages from
Britain to Sydney.
In 1850, evidence had been given at a New
South Wales Parliamentary enquiry that it
frequently took 10 months for a person
who mailed a letter in London to receive a
reply from Australia. Newspapers which,
of course, depended on sailing ships for
overseas reports, often found that dis-
patches arrived out of chronological order.
As the “Sydney Morning Herald” said on
August 4, 1852 (the day after the Chusan
arrived), a mail service by steamship
promised “a cheering contrast to our
present modes of supply, the news of
February preceding the news of January
Efforts to bring Australia closer in travelling
time to Britain had begun many years
before the Chusan set out on her pioneering
voyage. In 1843, public meetings in
Sydney had urged the N.S.W. Legislative
Council to seek the establishment of a
steamer mail service.
Four years later, the Council granted a
£5OO-a-month subsidy (to be paid for
three years) for a steamship to carry mails
between Singapore and Australia, but the
company went bankrupt.
The Peninsula and Oriental Co. then be-
came interested and, with Government
approval, chose the Chusan to inaugurate
the service.
The Chusan left Southampton on May 16,
1852 and travelled via St. Vincent, the
Cape of Good Hope and Melbourne.
Selection of this route was influenced by
the advice of Lieut. Crawford Pascoe, R.N.,
who had served with H.M.S. Beagle on
surveys of the Australian coast. In return
for his advice he was given a guest passage
on the Chusan and distinguished himself
(with five others) in a heroic but unvailing
attempt to rescue a sailor who fell over-
board from the Chusan’s mainmast off the
southern coast of Victoria.
According to a report of the times, the
Chusan had “all the appearance of a
man-of-war.” The reason was fear of
pirates then particularly prevalent in the
China and Java seas. The Chusan’s
armaments included a long 32-pounder
aft, an 18-pounder forward and several
12-pounder carronades on the main deck.
During the Chusan’s stay in Sydney a ball
was held at which a specially-composed
“Chusan Waltz” was played.
Chusan’s final departure from Sydney was
made on 26 November, 1853. A model of
this fine little ship is on display at the
Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences,
Sydney.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for over 118 years
* Copies c(f each cf the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application
HF24
dust from the milling mob
enveloped us in a pea-soup fog
so dense that it was impossible
for a man to see beyond the
rumps of the cattle immediately
in front of him. Occasionally a
rump would give place to a
white face topped by a pair of
raking horns, a rider would spur
his horse to block the break-
away, only to hear the thunder
of galloping hooves as more
broke behind him.
Before long we were as hope-
lessly confused as the cattle.
I raced madly to turn-in an
escaping wing and collided
almost head-on with Black
Albert coming at them from
the other side. The thud of
the colliding horses could
be heard above the roar
of the mob. Fortunately,
neither horse was hurt. The
only casualty was Black Albert’s
beautiful pearl-grey sombrero,
which fell off in the collision
and was trampled underfoot as
the whole mob surged blindly
outwards. He recovered it next
morning, but it never looked
the same hat again.
And our troubles did not end
with the yarding-up. The cattle
had to be drafted and dipped
next day, and the calves had to
be branded. There, again, the
bad handling showed-up. We
tried to force cattle from yard
to yard, and they refused to
be forced. We yelled ourselves
hoarse—more often than not
with no results. When it
came to dipping, we had to
almost manhandle every beast in.
Carson cursed fluently. The
others cursed, also, but seemed
to think the behavior of the
cattle quite normal. Cattle
didn’t like being yarded-up. It
was only natural that they
should balk at the gateway, so
you raced up and down behind
the tail, shouting your head off
and hoping for the best; the
accepted theory being that if
you pressed hard enough on the
tail-enders they would press on
the ones in front of them, and so
on until the leaders would be
forced in by sheer weight, often
tail-first.
Losses were inevitable. To
me they were a sign of mis-
management and incompetence,
From the time I was old enough
to straddle a pony I had watched
my father’s methods, accepting
his theories as gospel.
“You can’t bustle cattle, son,”
he used to say. “Just keep the
leaders going straight, and the
tail will follow in its own good
time.”
I can still picture him yarding-
up on Combedere; riding
quietly along behind the tail of
the mob, knife in one hand and
plug of tobacco in the other,
reins looped over one arm as he
cut-up a fill for the pipe that
only seemed to leave his mouth
at meal-times. His two blue
cattledogs would be trotting
along beside his horse, ears
pricked and positively longing
for some foolish beast to make
a break.
Gradually it dawned on
me that the big difference
between the two men lay in the
fact that Dad loved cattle-work
and Carson hated it.
I found this hard to believe
at first. It just didn’t seem
reasonable that a man should
own such a fine property, live
on it all his life, and hate the
work it entailed.
Yet Carson did. It was not
that he was lazy; he was one
of the hardest workers I have
ever met, and he really enjoyed
work —provided it did not
entail getting on a horse and
working cattle. As a bush-
carpenter he had few equals ; he
was a master with an axe and
adze, and a very competent
mechanic.
In consequence, the yards,
buildings and pumping-plants on
Yakaparni were always in an
excellent state of repair. That
was the work he enjoyed—that
and gardening. His attitude to
stock-work was “Let’s get the
infernal business over and get
on with some real work.”
He looked on horses as a
necessary evil, and on his ancient
Ford utility as the ideal mode of
transport. After driving it in
from the mustering-camps he
would be a changed man. No
longer the bellowing, cursing
tyrant on horseback, or the dour,
silent man who had shared the
musterers’ hut with us, he re-
laxed in his canvas chair and
rambled happily on about the
weather or the improvements
he had made to the property
during his forty years of occu-
pation.
To his wife’s question of “Did
you have a good muster this
week, Joseph?” he never gave
more than an irritable grunt.
He disliked even to be reminded
of the muster.
It was this knowledge that
made me change my mind. Pro-
vided he would agree to my
terms, I would stay on. With
Carson looking after the general
maintenance and me in charge
of the cattle we would make an
excellent team.
It might take a few years,
but I felt that ultimately I would
be in charge of a docile, well-
worked herd.
CHAPTER VI
THE muster was over. For
the past week we had been
working from the homestead,
but now the last mob had been
turned-out, and Carson was in
his office making up the wages.
Black Albert and the Batsons
were waiting out at the saddle-
rail, swags strapped across the
pommels of their saddles,
anxious to be off. Albert was
also going in for the weekend.
Presently Carson same out
with the cheques, said his good-
byes, and we watched them
mount and ride off. The Bat-
sons rode in their usual sedate
manner, but Black Albert
could not even leave the place
without a final burst of flash-
ness.
“See y’ next muster,” he
called, spurring his horse cruelly
on one shoulder, so that it spun
round and half-reared. “Save
dem rough ’orses for me. I’ll
take the sting outa dem.”
“I don’t know why you give
that flash buck a job,” I said
to Carson. “I’ve seen a few
horse-murderers in my time, but
he’s the worst I ever saw.”
“I’ve got to use him,” Carson
defended. “Got to have some-
one to ride the rough ones.”
“But surely he’s not the only
one! You ought to be able to
get plenty of good horsemen in
a district like this.”
“No.” He shook his head
impatiently. “Albert says he's
the best he can get.”
So that was it, I thought. I
should have guessed it, of
course. Carson, who never
went in to Dilargo if he could
avoid it, accepted Albert’s recom-
mendations without question.
And Albert took advantage of it
by securing jobs for his useless
relations. Not that the Batsons
were useless ; they were good,
reliable men at fencing, ring-
barking and a number of other
jobs, but they were not stock-
men.
I found out later that one of
them was married to Albert’s
sister or half-sister. Relation-
ship in Dilargo was somewhat
involved.
“About this overseer’s job,
Mr. Carson?” I said.
“Oh, yes, Bob.” He smiled at
me in an uncertain but rather
hopeful sort of way. “Do you
feel you’ve got the hang of
things yet?”
I said, “I’ve got the hang of
’em all right. No trouble about
that. But I’m not sure I’ll take
the job.”
The answer came as a sur-
prise to him, and I could see
that it had hurt him.
“Why?” he asked. “Don’t
you like the place, Bob?”
“I could like it. But it’s only
fair to tell you that I can only
take the job on my own terms.
We might as well come to an
understanding right away, and
then there’ll be no hard
feelings.”
I paused to make sure he
was going to give me a hearing.
“If I’m to be in charge of the
cattle, I want to work ’em my
way. At least give me an open
go for a year, and see how it
works out. The same goes for
the horses. And I want to do
my own hiring and firing of
stockmen.”
Carson, who, despite his
terrific outbursts of temper, had
never fired a man in his life,
said, “That’s all reasonable
enough, Bob.”
“And dogs,” I added. “I
want to get hold of a couple of
good dogs.”
That wrecked the harmony.
At the very mention of dogs he
exploded.
“Blasted dogs!” he roared.
“I wouldn’t have one on the
place. What good are they?
Tear hell out of the cattle. I’ve
seen ’em at it. No good telling
me the cattle will get used to ’em.
That’s half the trouble. Once
they get used to your blasted
dogs they’ll be the same with
dingoes. Won’t bother to pro-
tect their calves. In a year or
two we wouldn’t have a calf
left on the place.”
I heard him out, and then
said mildly, “It doesn’t work that
way, Mr. Carson. My dad
always used dogs, and he didn t
lose any more calves than the
neighbors who didn’t use them.
TICKET-OF-LEAVE WIFE
Tom O’Malley was my lover,
And we had the sky for cover;
Wind for music, rock for pillow,
Fern and foam lapped at my
elbow. .
Where are you now, Tom
O’Malley,
With which lady do you dally?
Billy Dorset, black for measure,
Took myself like pirate’s treasure.
Sails above and boards beneath
me,
Lust’s own language he did teach
me.
Where are you now, Billy Dorset,
Laced to someone else’s corset?
Bobby Dravel, soft and slender,
Kissed me sweet and loved me
tender.
In a bed of silken creases
Death surprised him with
caresses.
Ah, I know how far you’d travel,
You’re in Heaven, Bobby Dravel.
Ronnie Monday talked me heady,
Kissed me hard, and found me
ready.
Sulky-eyed and lip most surly,
Him I craved and loved most
surely.
We were married on a Sunday.
Where are you now, Ronnie
Monday?
W.A.
ANNE RODAWAY.


NOTHING EQUALS
8 WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY |
Warm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) bas
over 5,000 cn. ft. heating
capacity, and gives fall view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front. Modem
artistic appearance fin&hed
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
m
si *
i
-
m
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super
De Luxe
-k Large Capacity Over
8,000 co. ft.
■jf Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARMRAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributor;,
Chaliis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
Anyhow, that’s one of my con-
ditions. I must have dogs.”
There was one thing about
Carson; he cooled-down as
quickly as he flared-up.
“Right-oh, right-oh,” he said,
with only a trace of impatience.
“Have it your own way, but
don’t say afterwards I didn’t
warn you.”
He started to walk away, and
then turned back as a sudden
suspicion struck him.
“About this hiring and firing.
You wouldn’t be wanting to
get rid of Albert, I hope. I
couldn’t agree to that. I’ve
noticed you two don’t seem to
hit it off too well together, but
you couldn’t run this place
without him. He’s been here
for years and he knows the
place backwards. A good
reliable man, Albert.”
I didn’t argue that point with
him. I’d already decided on a
course of action as far as Albert
was concerned, so I merely said,
“He’s your man, Mr. Carson.
I wouldn’t think of firing him
without first consulting you.”
That settled, we walked inside
together.
/''vN Monday morning I ate
such a poor breakfast that I
had a job to convince Carson I
wasn’t sick. He firmly believed
that a man couldn’t do a day’s
work unless he had a good
breakfast inside him.
His own breakfast that morn-
ing consisted of an enormous
plate of porridge, four eggs and
a large helping of corned-beef.
No meal, he maintained, was
complete without corned-beef. It
was the only thing that really
stuck to you. A good feed of
steak or roast-beef was all very
well as a change for a day or
two after killing-day, but a man
couldn’t really work on it. A
breakfast of steak filled you up,
but its effects wore off by
smoke-oh time, leaving you
hollow and weak.
Small wonder he felt worried
over my struggles with a single
egg-
My loss of appetite was not.
caused by the thought of having
to ride bad horse; we had
only old quiet ones in. It was
caused by my decision to have
a showdown with Albert. I
asked Carson if I could have
him for the day, and he had
agreed readily because he
wanted to do some gardening.
He didn’t even ask me what I
intended to do.
Albert was leaning over the
saddle-rail when I went out. I
said, “Right, Albert. We’ll catch
our horses.”
“What’s doin’?” he asked.
As usual, he looked at the
ground. His hat-brim prevented
me from seeing his expression,
but it didn’t greatly matter. I
had known all along that when
the time came he would resent
taking orders from me, but I was
not sure what form his resent-
ment would take. Like me, he
could have been determined to
force a showdown, and if he
chose to start a brawl he would
have a big advantage over me in
weight. Moreover, I had an idea
he’d be a very dirty fighter.
“We’re going up to have a
look at the boundary-fence,” I
told him. “Particularly that sec-
tion you fixed-up the day I came
here. After that we’ll cut across
and ride a few mile of the
weaner-paddock fence, from the
big creek down as far as the
road.”
I had been expecting him to
do one of several things—come
with me and try to bluff it out,
tell me he wouldn’t stay on the
place if I was giving the orders,
or deliberately provoke a brawl.
He might even, I thought, take a
sudden swing at me with the
bridle he was dangling so casu-
ally. I had seen that done before,
and had helped patch up the
scalp opened by the heavy steel
bit.
Albert did none of those
things. He certainly swung the
bridle, but only to toss it sav-
agely through the saddle-room
door. And, having expressed his
contempt, he went off in search
of Carson.
I had to wait nearly half-an-
hour for the result of the inter-
view. Carson came out then, a
very agitated man.
“Look here, Bob,” he said, “I
don’t know what’s between you
two, or why you can’t patch it
up. Albert’s asked me to make
up his time.”
I said, “Perhaps it’s the best
way, Mr. Carson,” and got him
really stirred-up.
“Best way!” he snapped.
“You don’t know what you’re
talking about. You can’t run
the place without Albert, and it’s
no good thinking you can. You
don’t even know your way
around. You’ve never mustered
his side of the run.”
“I don’t think you need worry
about that. I’ll get the hang of
things soon enough.” I spoke
quietly, knowing that if I lost
my temper now I would gain
nothing. “Albert’s tossing it in
because he knows that when I
show you some of the things I’ve
seen you’ll fire him on the spot.”
T HAD a job to convince him, r
1 and a harder one to per-
suade him to get on a horse and
see the things for himself. He
had given Albert the day off and
asked him to reconsider his
decision; but in the end he
came.
1 think the fact that I had
been inspecting fences on my
Sundays-off impressed him.
He didn’t say so, of course.
In fact, he didn’t say a thing
until I showed him the fence
Albert had claimed he had
repaired. You did not have to
be a bushman to see that it had
been down for months.
He broke into one of his curs-
ing fits then, and wanted to go
straight home. But I had quite
a bit more to show him. I don’t
know how Albert had filled-in
his fence-riding days; he cer-
tainly hadn’t wasted much time
on repairs. Sagging and broken
wires, burnt-out posts, and trees
fallen across the fence-line all
proclaimed a state of shameful
neglect.
“That’s enough,” Carson
declared at last. “I’ve seen
enough. I’ll sack the rotten
animal as soon as we get back to
the house.”
I only spoke to him once on
the ride home, and he answered,
not savagely, but more like a
petulant child, “Goddammit,
Bob, I don’t want to talk.”
I rode along wondering which
had upset him most—the realisa-
tion that the upkeep of his
property was far from as perfect
as he had blindly imagined it to
be, or the knowledge that his
trusted man had betrayed his
trust.
I wondered, since he had
always had such blind faith in
Albert, why he hadn’t thought of
giving him the job of overseer.
It was nearly a year before I dis-
covered that he had thought of
it, and that Mr. Forster, nursing
his gastric-ulcer behind his city
desk, had voted strongly against
it. It was amazing where that
bank-manager got his informa-
tion from.
CARSON did not sack Albert.
When we got home Mrs.
Carson greeted us with the news
that Albert had gone, leaving a
request for his cheque to be for-
warded. Carson’s record of
never having sacked a man was
unbroken.
Next day I went in to Dilargo
to pick-up a couple of men.
After questioning me about my
driving-ability, Carson told me
to take the tilly, his most
cherished possession. He came
out to see me off, or rather to
make sure I understood his
careful instructions on the
correct way to drive. Once you
got into top-gear the throttle had
to be set just-so. He had put
a file-cut on the quadrant to
mark the place. The spark could
be retarded to another file-mark
when you were going up a rise,
but the throttle-lever was not to
be moved. Monkeying about
with it was bad for the engine.
I told him I understood, and
then left as instructed.
Approaching the timber half-a-
mile from the house I looked
back. He was still standing out
in front of the saddle-room,
watching me, so I carried on for
a further quarter-mile before
reverting to the normal style of
driving.
My first call was the pub, not
because I was bursting to cash
the cheque I had asked for, but
because I felt that Curly Ryan’s
advice would be helpful. It was.
He cashed the cheque and will-
ingly joined me in a beer. There
were no other customers.
N “So you got rid of Albert at
last, eh?” he remarked casually.
“About time someone woke up
to ’im.”
Not wishing to be drawn, I
pressed my question about men.
“The Batsons’U be y’r best bet
for the fencin’ job,” he said, as
he put the second round of
drinks on the bar. “Good, steady
workers. Do a lot o’ that sort o’
work around the district, and
I’ve never ’eard no complaints.
Why not shove the two of ’em
on? Get the job done quicker,
and they don’t like splittin’-up.”
We sipped our drinks slowly,
and I asked him about a horse-
breaker. After a lot of gloomy
predictions that I would never
get stockmen to ride them once
they were broken-in, Carson had
agreed to let me look for a
breaker.
“There’ll be a bloke along ’ere
any minute now.” Curly
glanced at the big clock on the
wall. “If ’e don’t show-up inside
ten-minutes I’ll die of ’eart-
failure. If you take ’im you’ll
be doin’ me a favor. Get ’im
off me books.”
I laughed and asked, “Am I
supposed to be running a
publican’s benefit?”
Curly’s broad, good-natured
face showed his indignation.
“You asked about a good ’orse-
breaker, didn’t y’?” he
demanded. “I’m puttin’ you on
to the best one this side o’ the
black stump, and forty-mile west
of it. Best breaker I ever seen,
and I seen a few before I took
this game on.” He jerked his
head towards the open door, and
I saw a man walking slowly
down the wide street. “That’s
’im cornin’ now.”
“I’ll have a yarn to him out-
side,” I said. “What’s his
name?”
“Wonga Watkins. Don’t ask
me ’is first name. Everyone calls
’im Wonga.”
I met Wonga outside and
introduced myself.
“Yair,” he acknowledged.
“Heard about you.”
TTE was a short man, rather
thickset, with a faint trace
of Oriental blood that showed in
his high cheekbones, flat features
and dark eyes. He looked
worried, particularly when he
pushed his wide-brimmed hat
back and revealed a wrinkled
forehead. I was to find that
Wonga always looked worried.
He had no other expression. It
Vvas difficult to tell his age. My
first guess was thirty, which
turned out to be an overestimate
of five years.
“I’m looking for a man to do
some breaking,” I told him.
“Are you interested?”
He did not answer at once.
Instead he walked a few steps,
searching the ground carefully.
Presently he picked up a small
twig, returned to his original
position and squatted on his
heels.
“Them Yakaparni ’orses ’ave
got a bit of age on ’em,” he
remarked, smoothing a patch of
ground with his twig.
“I thought of cutting out the
oldest ones.” I also lowered my-
self to my heels. “I think I can
persuade Mr. Carson to sell
them. He’s got plenty of
younger ones coming on.”
“That’s right.” Wonga’s twig
traced a meaningless design in
the patch he had smoothed.
“Was you thinkin’ of gettin’ ’em
broke contract or wages?”
“I don’t care which. Wages
might be better, with a bit extra
for every head you break, be-
cause I’d want you to help me
run them in and draft them.”
Wonga slowly added a few
extras to his design and said,
“We’ll ’ave a look at ’em
t’morrer, eh?”
Since there did not seem any
likelihood of getting a more
satisfactory answer out of him,
I said, “Suits me. What about a
beer?”
He smoothed his design out
with the utmost care, stood up
and patted the last vestige out
with the sole of one boot. It
was as though he feared some
stranger might come along and
uncover his secret. His dark
brown eyes met mine, and the
worried lines across his fore-
head deepened.
“Don’t s’pose it’d kill us, eh?”
he answered.
I paid for the beers, and we
drank them in silence. Know-
ing that Wonga was already in
debt to the publican I turned to
leave then, but Wonga pushed
the glasses suggestively forward
and said, “Same agen, Curl.
Stick ’am down with the others.
I’ll be squarin’ up with y’
Saturdee week. Goin’ out to
Yakapami to do a bit of
breakin’.”
It was his first actual admis-
sion that he had accepted my
offer. But Wonga avoided
admissions whenever possible.
Always his answers were vague
and noncommittal. I sounded
him out about cattle-pups, and
he spent a full minute searching
for the gummy side of a cigar-
ette-paper before admitting he
knew “a bloke with a bitch that
’ad a batch o’ pups lately.” He
didn’t know if the bloke would
part with any, but he could
sound him out. If he came
good, he said, he might bring
the pup out with him when he
came.
I let it go at that and went
off in search of the Batsons.
To tell the truth I was not
greatly impressed with Wonga
and his vague half-promises.
I doubted whether he would
turn-up next day, and I felt it
would be a miracle if I ever
heard any more of the pup.
The Batsons were much more
satisfactory to deal with. They
definitely wanted the fencing
job, and they had practical sug-
gestions concerning the best way
to tackle it. They would bring
their own dray and camping-
gear, they said, and camp on the
job. There wouldn’t be any
trouble about arranging terms
with Carson. Leave that part of
it to them.
(To be continued next week)
KOOKABURRAS AT
EVENING
The kookaburra laughs a tree
Into the sky when day is done
And leaves it there for all to see,
Anchored against the setting sun.
The kookaburra’s very clever:
Have you or I
Lifted a tree —now tell me—ever,
By hoists of laughter to the sky?
N.S.W,
ERNEST G. MOLL.


Men in Wool
DW22
f?
w
■ ■
m
s*
tf
A
z^
fi
K
/
the cook ..
. . . like Napoleon’s army, Australia’s itinerant legion of
shearers moves from shed to shed and from State to State, on
the impulse of gastronomical science. ... In his sanctum of
blackened pots and pans, broilers and boilers, erudite
“Webbey,” an Oxford B.A. and LL.B., dispensed a cuisine
for the shearer, “par excellence,” with a helping of logic
from his vast store of knowledge ranging from law,
medicine, economics, philosophy and history to the predict-
ability of “heading them.” “Webbey” was ever ready to
accommodate anyone with a wager on anything. He earned
more than the Ringer, lent his savings at interest to his
fellow workers, and finished with sufficient capital to buy
a cattle property in Queensland.
As in the past, the shearers’ cook is still carefully selected,
as he must be approved by the team.
Likewise, after 75 years, Dalgety’s continues to be Australia’s
leading and most experienced wool-selling House, with selling
centres at Sydney, Newcastle, Albury, Melbourne, Geelong,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
You can depend on
MBatgetys
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
a]l who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3p), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
CUARD7
Ca&h/
PROTECTA
<%>
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold Sa Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Auat.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
W ants
Whereabouts of Ted Colles, who
wrote and sketched for The Bulletin
around World War I? —6343.
Whereabouts of Samuel Coey, who
migrated from Northern Ireland and
was last heard of in Mackay (Queens-
land) before the 1914-18 war, or any
information of him. —6344.
To buy The Anglo-Boer War, by
Bresler; Narrative of a Voyage from
Sydney to Torres Straits, by W. E.
Brockett (Sydney, 1836; 54pp.); Aus-
tralian Expedition, by Brockmann;
Recollections of an Australian Squatter
or Leaves from my Journal since 1835,
by W. A. Brodribb (Sydney, 1883 ;
237 pp.); History Readers (Vols. 1, 2
and 3), by Brookes; and Early
Experiences of Life in South Aus-
tralia, by John Wrathall Bull
(Adelaide, 1884; 406pp.).—6345.
To buy a print of John D. Moore’s
“Clouds Over Lord Howe Island.” —
6346.
Information Sought
Information on the King's Cup ?
The Cup was first presented by
King George V for an eight-oared
race between crews from the Allies of
World War I, and was competed for
at Henley Royal Regatta (July, 1919).
The race was won by the A.I.F.
No. 1 crew; the trophy was left with
the Australian military authorities, and
eventually placed in the Australian
War Museum. The King then
signified that it was his wish that the
Cup should be used as a permanent
trophy to be competed for annually
in the inter-State eight-oared race in
Australia. Inter-State eight-oared
races had been held since 1878, but
the first to be designated as for the
King’s Cup was that of 1920, won
by the famous Murray Bridge crew,
representing S.A. The race is rowed
in each State in turn, and is usually
rowed over three-miles; this year’s
race, on Lake Wendouree (Vic.), was
for the first time over the Olympic
course of 2000-metres. It was the
30th King’s Cup race. W.A. won in
.1921, S.A. the following two years,
Queensland in 1924, W.A. again in
#925, Tasmania in 1926, W.A. in ’27
•and ’2B (in 1928, on the Nepean in
perfect weather, the six crews all
crossed the line in a “photo-finish”),
N.S.W. in 1929 (after a ding-dong
battle with W.A., which was after the
Inat-trick), 1930 Victoria, no race in
1931, 1932 Victoria, 1933 to 1936
N.S.W., 1937 S.A. (by a length from
N.S.W. at Murray Bridge), 1938 W.A.
(with N.S.W. again defeated
narrowly), and in 1939 Queensland,
with Victoria, which finished second,
disqualified on a technicality and
N.S.W. again placed second. Resumed
in 1946, Victoria won that year and
in 1947 (when, on the Swan, stormy
weather three times caused a
postponement), N.S.W. the next four
years, Victoria in 1952 (by four
lengths, on the Nepean, from N.S.W.,
which, however, was selected to repre-
sent Australia at the Helsinki
Olympics) and again in 1953 and
1954, W.A. in 1955 and Victoria
once more this year.
* * * *
How to bleach silky-oak before
polishing ?
The work requires experience and
a knowledge of the physiology of
the particular wood being treated;
timbers vary greatly in their reaction
to chemicals by reason of their age
at the time of cutting, seasoning, etc.
Prepare a mixture of 1-part pyrogallic
acid in 25-parts warm water, and,
when dissolved, coat the wood with
this. Allow to dry. Prepare a solu-
tion of green vitriol 2-parts in boiling
water 50-parts, and paint it over the
first coating on the wood. This should
produce the result you require, but it
may be necessary to repeat. Try a
small piece of wood first.
• * * *
My lawn is honeycombed with
“miniature volcanoes.” What insect
causes it, and how to eradicate the
pest ?
The lawn, according to fr.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, is prob-
ably infested with mole-crickets,
whose forelegs are specially adapted
for digging; they tunnel along in a
horizontal direction, occasionally
coming to the surface and depositing
the characteristic “earth-casts.” Black-
beetle ( Heteronychus sanctce-lielence)
is another pest which causes some-
what similar trouble, but only during
the warmer months of the year. A
third possibility is that the lawn is
heavily infested with ants’ nests. The
“coastal brown ant” ( Pheidole
megacephala ) sometimes builds on
lawns many craterlike nests with a
central hole surrounded by loose
sand-particles brought to the surface
by the worker-ants. Treatment of the
lawn with chlordane emulsion should
control any of these insects. Rate
of application suggested is 2 fluid
ounces of 80 per cent, concentrate
per 1000 square-feet of lawn; the
insecticide may be applied either by
means of a watering-can fitted with
a “rose”-sprinkler or it may be
sprayed on. If the former method is
used the area which may be covered
with a watering-can full of water is
first determined and then the
appropriate amount of concentrate to
add at each filling may be computed.
Chlordane 80 per cent, emulsifiable
concentrate is sold as Chek-pest or
Duzkil or Okta-Klor at a cost of
about 7s. 6d. for 4 fluid ounces. The
lawn should be closely mown before
treatment and well watered immedi-
ately after in order to (a) avoid
subsequent removal of traces of
insecticide on grass-clippings and
(b) enable the insecticide to soak well
into the ground.
* * * *
Some information on biologist Sir
Walter Baldwin Spencer ?
Born in Stretford (Lancashire) in
1860, educated at Owens College
(Manchester) and Exeter College
(Oxford), he came to Australia, with
high academic credentials, in 1887,
to become, at 27, Melbourne Uni-
versity’s first Professor of Biology. He
remained so till 1919, when he became
Emeritus Professor. From 1895 to
1928 he was a trustee of Victoria’s
Public Library, Art Gallery and
Museum. He was created K.C.M.G.
in 1916. A distinguished figure in
the Australian scientific world, he was
a patron of Australian art and
literature. He published numerous
scientific memoirs, and (some in col-
laboration with F. J. Gillen) wrote
The Native Tribes of Central Australia,
The Northern Tribes of Central Aus-
tralia, Across Australia, Native Tribes
of the Northern Territories of Aus-
tralia, The Arunta and Wanderings in
Wild Australia, some of these
regarded as classic works of reference
on the aborigine. He died on July
24, 1929, while on a scientific expedi-
tion to Argentina.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a wet pickle for meat,
tongues, etc j (2) Dry-curing of beef
and other meats?
(1) Take 61b. salt, 21b. sugar, 3gals.
water, 3oz. saltpetre, to be boiled in
a large container, for at least 30min.,
skimming occasionally. Strain into
an earthenware tub or crock, or a
clean dry cask, and let stand until
cool. It is then ready to receive the
meat, which will require about a
fortnight for pickling—a little less for
small items. Large joints should have
a sharp knife inserted into thick
parts near a deep bone to allow the
pickle to enter. The pickle may be
used over and over again by being
boiled-up occasionally with more
sugar, salt and saltpetre. (2) Mix
well together 41b. brown sugar, 3oz.
saltpetre, 6oz. bay-salt, lib. common
salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, a little all-
spice (bay-salt may be omitted, but
add a little more common salt if
this is dropped). Rub the mixture
into the meat well every day for a
week, keeping it well turned so that it
is evenly salted, If doing this curing
regularly it is an advantage to have
a small wooden table with raised
sides on which to work anti let the
meat stand, well covered from flies.
The wood should be a clean white
pine, impervious to or unaffected by
salt and meat acids.
* * * *
Information regarding the naming
of (1) Dobroyde Point, in Parramatta
River, (2) Dobroyde Point, near
Middle Harbor, (3) Mount Ramsay,
at Collaroy?
(1) About 1805 Simeon Lord
bought a grant on Iron Cove origin-
ally made to Nicholas Bayly, and in
1806 a warning against “trespass on
the Farm of S. Lord known by the
name of Dobroyde, formerly the
property of N. Bayly, Esq.,” was
issued. Simeon Lord’s father married
Ann Fielden, daughter of Joseph
Fielden, who died at Dobroyde
Castle in Yorkshire on Feb. 19, 1871.
The property was later taken over by
Dr. Ramsay, who married one of
Simeon Lord’s daughters, and during
his occupancy the name was written
“Dobroyd.” (2) Dobroyde Point
near Middle Harbor entrance is
referred to as early as 1834, but there
is no evidence as to who named it.
(3) No information at present.
(Answers by courtesy o_f the Royal
Australian Historical Society.)
* * * *
Is a New Zealander immediately
eligible for old-age pension on his
return after a long residence abroad?
Eligibility for an age-benefit is sub-
ject to the fulfilment of certain con-
ditions as to residence. An applicant
resident in N.Z. on March 15, 1938,
must have resided continuously in
the Dominion for 10 years immedi-
ately before the date of application,
subject to an aggregate allowance of
12 months for absences during that
period and a further allowance of
six-months absence for every year of
residence in excess of 10 years. Other-
wise the qualifying residential period
is 20 years, with an allowance of
two years for absences and of six
months for every year of residence in
excess of 20 years. However, by
virtue of reciprocal agreements with
both Australia and Britain, a period
of residence in either country may
be regarded as equivalent to a period
of residence in N.Z. Consequently
an Australian citizen coming to reside
permanently in N.Z. would qualify
for benefit on residential grounds
provided that the period of residence
in either Australia or N.Z. was at
least 20 years immediately before he
applied for benefit, subject, of course,
to the statutory allowance for
absences. Further details about the
Australia-N-Z. reciprocal agreement
can be obtained from any office of the
Department of Social Services.
Brief Answers
T.T.: At the expiry of your lease you
will be entitled to the protection of
the Landlord and Tenant (Amend-
ment) Act, and your landlord, if she
wishes to obtain her house for her-
self, must provide you with reasonably
suitable alternative accommodation.
You are entitled to claim hardship.
If, after you have left the place, she
should be in a position to rent it, she
is not obliged to give you any pre-
ference J.S.: The Wilga run, men-
tioned in Paterson’s poem “Saltbush
Bill” (Saltbush Bill “camped one night
at the crossing-place on the edge of
the Wilga run,” where he fought the
Jackaroo), is a pastoral holding
(actually Wilga Downs) 13 miles west
of Coolabah on the Nyngan-Bourke
railway Titanium: For informa-
tion on lodging applications to mine
rutile and zircon, either interview the
warden’s clerk of the mining division
in which the land is located or for-
ward a sketch and accurate descrip-
tion of the area to the N.S.W.
Department of Mines, Box 48,
G.P.0., Sydney. If you forward your
address, which was not put on your
question, we will post you a Depart-
ment of Mines brochure on beach-
mining for rutile and zircon
Almo: (1) He has one son and three
daughters. (2) We do not publish
such information... .J.N.W.: Write
E. P. Houghton Pty., Ltd., manu-
facturers’ representatives, 379 Kent-
street, Sydney P.P.: Can’t see that
there was any ambiguity. The sire’s
name was given at the beginning of
the par., and there should have been
no misunderstanding in the pedigree as
printed....A.E.D.: (1), (2) and (3)
As has been publicised lately, Yass
Council (N.S.W.) added sodium-
fluoride (one-part to 1,000,000-parts
water) to the town’s water-supply,
without giving notice to the towns-
people of having done so, and nobody
drinking the water noticed any differ-
ence. (4) The N.S.W. secretary of
the Australian Dental Association,
R. B. Newland, recently stated that a
10-year survey in America had shown
that fluorination considerably reduced
dental decay; he added that in Dec.,
1953, fluorination of drinking-water
throughout Australia had been recom-
mended by the National Health and
Medical Research Council. (5) Write
the Queensland Department of Public
Health, Brisbane Rooinek Junior
and Henry C.: Thanks for informa-
tion on Canada’s New South Wales,
but one or two other contributors
came to light earlier with the facts
Doynest: (1) Yes, unfortunately they
are taxed. (2) Deduction can be
claimed for stationery, stamps,
electric-light, etc C.W.H.: The
article was “Brumbies to Polo
Ponies,” by A. E. Yarra, printed
B. 11/4/’56. Your letter sent on to
the author J.L.C.: To remove
iron-rust stains from a hardwood
floor, moisten with liquid-ammonia
(not cloudy-ammonia), then rub with
cloth or piece of cottonwool satur-
ated with dilute phosphoric acid.
Repeat several times, then wash with
water and let dry. Another method
is to cover the stains with oxalic-acid
crystals and moisten with water so
that a saturated solution penetrates
the wood. Wash off after 24 hours,
and allow to dry. (Oxalic-acid is very
poisonous if taken internally.)
A.D.L.: (1) “Carvel”-built, in boat-
building, means built with the planks
meeting flush at the seams, instead of
overlapping; “clinker”-built is having
the external planks put on so that
one edge on each overlaps the edge of
the plank next to it. (2) Spelling is
La Cucaracha .... Invicta: Difficult
to say exactly where you could obtain
that particular type of belt-buckle.
Write Car Fasteners Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., 420 Panramatta-road,
Petersham (N.S.W.), or Raynors Pty.,
Ltd., 102 Bonds-road, Punchbowl
(N.S.W.) C.W.: Try Drug Houses
of Australia, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-
street, Sydney; Wholesale Drug Co.,
Ltd., 17 Parker-street, Haymarket
(N.S.W.); or F. H. Faulding and Co.,
Ltd., 98 Castlereagh-street, Redfern
(N.S.W.) C.F.S.: Your letter for-
warded to “C.H.”... . D.G.W.: Most
of the older bowling-clubs in Aus-
tralia have a reproduction of the
painting “The Armada in Sight,” by
Seymour Lucas, R.A. This is most
likely the picture to which you refer.
G.C.H.: (1) See The Books of
The Bulletin, 1880-1952, by George
Mackaness and Walter W. Stone. (2)
Write Mitchell Library, Macquarie-
street, Sydney H.C.McG.: (1)
“Marcotting” means “propagation.”
Method of marcotting latchi-nuts is
to sever a branch halfway through
and bind this with soil and moss; in
time it will root into the moss and
soil, and the rooted plant can be cut-
off. (2) For further information write
Division of Horticulture, Queensland
Department of Agriculture, Brisbane.
(3) Langbeckers Nursery, Bundaberg
(Q.), would probably be able to
supply latchi-nuts. (4) Write Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
regarding supply of seeds of tree-
tomato, tree-onions and potato-onions.
R.S.: Arthur Yates and Co., Pty.,
Ltd., states that sugar-maple plants
can be obtained from Ferguson's
Nursery, Hurstville (N.S.W.).
Botanical name of the sugar-maple is
Acer saccharinum ... .H.E.S.: The
answer to all your questions is the
answer to question 6. You s tu r
certainly seek the advice 01 anotner
solicitor.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.C.: This is no place, for
“exquisite shell-pink baby-toes •• • •
M.P.T.: Letter appreciated. You 11 be
nearer the mark when you can write
about a rainbow without going on to
moralise about “how life may fuller
be”... .K.R.R.: Might give the kite
a fly if you could straighten the
length of the lines and improve that
facilely-rhymed last stanza....
V.J.H.: May you sing for ever ot
J.W.D.: Read Angus and Robert-
son’s Australian Poetry anthologies
and come again in two years
8.M.: Too slight V.F.: Afraid the
mug is still chipped L.D.: An
outline for a poem... .H.H.: Let’s
see what you can do on some other
theme R.M.8.: All poems about
the aborigines are the same poem
R.M.C.: Why, indeed?:
The prices of our clothes are dear,
They come so near to that we fear,
We might be dense—they don’t make
sense.
Why the Hell elevenpence ?
REIDSDALE.
Give me the wide open spaces,
Where we see those lovely white faces,
Of the Herefords, jumbucks and Clydes-
dales, ..
All grazing peacefully away back at Keids-
dale.
The jumbucks they grew the golden fleece,
And put this mug on his feet.
Now many a man walks the street,
Living on the profits obtained from the
Merino Sheep.
When lying on my old feather bed,
I often dream of those prime fat Here-
fords,
And I am sure my face at times is red
After the many tears that have now been
shed.
The prime fat stock to market for sale
From a property down south at Reidsdale,
And the gates again were locked with a
Yale,
As nothing prime returns from a fat-
cattle sale.
J.D.R.: Are you sure you have
really read the modern poets with
patience, sympathy, reverence and
every sense alert for the subtlest
nuances of rhyme, rhythm, thought
and feeling? If not, why not? ....
J.A.W.: Your technique is hardly
adequate for the “Bushman’s Prayer”
but he does pray with some force....
J.A.H.: But after all it takes a brain
to design an electronic brain,...
V.M.C.: Too much Hopkins in that
one R.M.C.: You’re off: —
Where are all our kangaroos,
Koala-bears and emus,
Apart from those locked in the zoos.
Near sleek paved streets of Sydney?
The platypus and witchety-grub,
The one-man town, the single pub?
The Sheep Show’s here, but here’s the
rub,
They ain’t in streets of Sydney.
Where the wheatfields, where the grain,
Apples, crows and sugar-cane ?
Where the winding country lane
In tram-tracked frown of. Sydney?
Sunburnt soil, fire and drought.
Bundy freed —go walkabout.
Hear the bellbirds —coo-ee, shout —
In Underground of Sydney ?
ITntraeked miles of burning sands,
Tropic Kimberley’s jungle lands.
In sweltering heat a highway stands
But it’s flamin’ cold in Sydney.


HEIRS WANTED
ALL Persons who Claim to be Heirs of
the late MISS JANE ANN RAMSAY
(otherwise known as “JEAN RAMSAY”),
Matron (retired), late of 3 Aytoun Road,
Pollokshields, Glasgow, Scotland, who died
on 11th December, 1953, and in particular
her brother. ALLAN GEORGE McKENZIE
RAMSAY, Engineer, who was stated to be
in Sydney, Australia, shortly after the
World War 1914-1918 and/or any per-
sons claiming to be Heirs of the said
ALLAN GEORGE McKENZIE RAMSAY,
are requested to COMMUNICATE with
the Subscriber forthwith. —JAMES M.
MACKELLAR, Solicitor, 125 Douglas St.,
Glasgow, Scotland, Agent for MISS
JANE A. RAMSAY’S Executor.
Threatened Extinction
Australia’s Coastal Shipping
By THOMAS A. MILES
WITH a coastline of
nearly twelve-thousand
miles, it is essential that
Australia should have a
vigorous and efficient coastal
merchant-shipping service
,The areas of intensive settle-
ment, the large industries, and
the concentration of population,
are all on the seaboard. The
main coal, ironstone and lime-
stone deposits are on the coast,
and much of the primary pro-
duction in sugar, timber and
dairy-products comes from
within a narrow coastal fringe.
The natural means of trans-
porting the products of these,
and industries such as mining,
manufacturing and agriculture,
is by sea.
Apart from the economic
aspect, there is the necessity for
an isolated continent to be able
to carry its coastal traffic in time
of war.
The sea, as a means of trans-
port, has many advantages over
land-transport. Ships do not
require costly highways or
permanent-ways, and the cost of
terminal facilities is small in
relation to the investment
required for the arterial routes
of land-transport.
In Australia today such
factors make shipping impreg-
nable against competition from
other forms of transport for bulk
cargoes over long distances, but
such relative advantages of ship-
ping do not hold good for
general cargo, and they also
decrease as the length of the
haul is reduced.
As an instance of the advan-
tages of shipping over rail, over
a.long distance, ironstone from
Whyalla, in South Australia, is
carried by ship to the steelworks
at Newcastle and Port Kembla,
in New South Wales, at an
average freight-rate of 21s. 3d.
per ton, over a route of about
1300 miles. The cost of loading
and discharge brings the figure
to about 295. per ton. This is
only about one-sixteenth of the
average freight-charges of rail-
ways in Australia.
The total volume of cargo
moved around the Australian
coast is about 14-million tons
per annum, of which about 11-
million tons is carried inter-State
and the balance intra-State. In
inter-State trade over 65 per
cent, of the tonnage handled is
coal, ironstone, steel-products,
limestone, and sugar. Coal
makes up 60 per cent, of the
tonnage carried intra-State.
The most noticeable trend in
recent years has been the
increase in the carriage of bulk
cargoes, which at present com-
prise over 75 per cent, of the
tonnage, and the trend is for the
bulk trade to increase at a rate
exceeding 250,000 tons a year.
General cargo, on the other
hand, is gradually declining on
the inter-State routes and rapidly
declining on intra-State routes,
where railways and road-trans-
port offer strongest competition.
General cargoes handled through
the Port of Sydney fell from
1,900,000 tons in 1939 to
1,200,000 in 1954. In the past
12 months the trend has been
accelerated: in this period some
shipping companies have experi-
enced a falling-off in general
cargo between Sydney and Mel-
bourne of over 40 per cent.
The decline in the volume of
general cargo carried, at a time
when population, production
and trade are increasing rapidly,
is one of the obvious signs of
the malady affecting the
industry.
In N.S.W. the small cargo-
ships serving the North Coast
and South Coast ports have
virtually disappeared. These
short hauls were bound to be the
most vulnerable to increasing
competition from road-trans-
port. In the past four years
the ships of two N.S.W. coastal-
shipping companies have been
disposed of and the companies
wound-up ; the third, and last,
company is struggling hard to
avoid the same fate.
In the case of the North Coast
trade, the end was hastened by
the cutthroat competition of the
N.S.W. Railways, which offered
freight-rates of 50 per cent, less
than rates elsewhere in the State,
in what appeared to be a deter-
mined effort to eliminate sea-
competition at all cost.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment now owns about 35 per
cent, of the tonnage of Aus-
tralian-owned inter-State vessels.
Of 33 new vessels on order, of a
total capacity of approximately
197,000 tons deadweight, 14
ships, of 114,000 tons dead-
weight—6o per cent, of the total
—are on order for the Govern-
ment.
The privately-owned ships
belong to some 34 companies,
mainly the seven companies of
the Australian Steamship
Owners Federation. The
Broken Hill Go. Pty., Ltd., and
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.,
Ltd., also operate vessels which
carry part of their requirements.
The total capital investment in
Australian - owned merchant -
ships—Government and private
—as at June, 1954, was estimated
at £57 million.
The rate of replacement over
the past decade has not been
sufficient to replace over-age
vessels. More than 80 of the
ships now trading will be 25
years old, or older, by 1960, and
it would cost over £6O million
to replace them progressively.
Ships now cost from four to
seven times more than the ships
they are replacing ; these were
largely built in the 1925-1935
period, which included the
depression years. Costs for new
tonnage, to meet expanding
requirements, are about three
times as much as pre-war, and
they are still increasing.
The position today is that 50
per cent, more ships—and bigger
ships, too —are handling little
more cargo than pre-war. There
has been major expenditure on
port-facilities, but far less cargo
is moved daily across the
wharves than pre-war, and the
community is footing the bill,
which is indeed a startling one.
The deterioration of the rate
of handling cargo varies from
port to port, as does also the
relative importance of the vari-
ous factors which have caused
the decline. From a pre-war
rate of 225. a ton for general
cargo, between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, freight has now risen to
131 s. 6d. a ton, an increase of
500 per cent. Bulk-cargo rates
have not increased so steeply:
freight on ironstone from
Whyalla to Newcastle was 4s. 9d.
per ton in 1939, and is now 21s.
3d.
In the matter of costs, crew-
wages are shown to be next in
importance to stevedoring costs.
The award-rate for able seamen
increased from £l4 12s. 6d. per
month in March, 1937, to £54
Bs. 6d. in August, 1953 —more
than three-and-a-half times the
1937 rate.
Comparisons of actual crew-
wages paid, including overtime
and leave, on two ships of
respectively 2300 tons and 6600
tons, show that from 1937 to
1955 for every day the ships were
in commission the daily totals of
wages rose from £33 and £43
respectively to £lB9 and £253 —
an increase of nearly 500 per
cent.
As already pointed out, the
Commonwealth Shipping Line
owns 41 ships, constituting 35
per cent, of the tonnage of the
inter-State trade, and has
another 14 ships on order. This
line came into existence, as the
Australian Shipping Board, dur-
ing World War II to fill the
urgent need for ships to carry
supplies for the steel, munitions
and other industries. After the
war it was expanded to fill the
growing need for ships, particu-
larly bulk carriers, and it was an
important factor in keeping the
Australian shipbuilding-industry
in existence. During most of its
life the line has been run at a
substantial loss.
The Australian shipping com-
pam'es are all relatively small in
terms of capital. It is most
unlikely that they would be able
to finance the further essential
expansion of their fleets and the
replacement of obsolete ships in
the future. A ship which 25
years ago cost £300,000 to build
would now cost them £1,170,000
to replace.
In this respect, the Common-
wealth Shipping Line being
Government-owned and there-
fore non-taxpaying—is at a great
advantage. It would be able to
replace the £300,000 ship for
£470,000 less than the shipping
company could.
Two of the largest Australian
shipping companies have not
increased their capital since the
early ’twenties. Their disclosed
net profits over the last four
years have averaged less than 4
per cent., and their prospects of
attracting capital to finance
expansion are small indeed. In
fact, most of the companies, with
their present fleets, are struggling
to keep going.
The coastal-shipping trade —so
far as passenger-ships are con-
cerned —may be said to be near-
ing its end ; in a few short years
it is inevitable that passenger-
ships will be driven from the
Australian coastal trade.
Three or four years ago there
were at least 10 fine passenger-
ships, of from 8000 to 10,000
tons, covering the coastal
passenger-trade from Cairns, in
Queensland, to Fremantle, in
Western Australia. Today there
are but six, and, with the
impending withdrawal and sale
of the Manunda, there will be
only five —Duntroon, Kanimbla,
Mano o r a, Wanganella and
Westralia.
A passenger-ship, heavily sub-
sidised by the Commonwealth
Government and running at a
loss, maintains the shipping-link
between Tasmania and the
mainland, and is likely to be the
sole passenger-service remaining
within the next few years.
Devastation Restoration
Operation Wattle-seed
By NORMAN KING
A MONTH or two back
something new under the
Australian sun happened
out over the Blue Moun-
tains. Seed and fertiliser were
showered down from the air on
a coalfield —500 acres of it; the
Ben Bullen open-cut, which
during the immediate post-war
years was the biggest coal-
producer on the N.S.W- western
field.
About 20 miles north-west of
Lithgow and about two miles
in off the Mudgee Road, Ben
Bullen was in full-blast only a
few years, when coal was criti-
cally short. That was long
enough to leave a fantastic
desolation.
Two 12-yard “walking” drag-
lines, with a shovel-capacity of
about 15 tons each per bite, had
clumped their huge metal feet
across the wide, flat depression.
The huge machines —each cost-
ing £250,000 to buy and another
£60,000 to instal —shifted the
enormous quantity of 15,000,000
cubic-yards of overburden to
uncover the coal. In the end
these great machines were sold
to the English contracting firm
of Wimpeys, which had operated
a big section of the Ben Bullen
cut. Dismantled, the monsters
were shipped to Wales.
Wimpeys’ open-cut was the
last to close-down on the western
field. This was in June last year,
by which time the field had pro-
duced 6,000,000 tons of coal
since 1940, peak-production
being in 1952, when 1,750,000
tons were won.
The passing of the coal-crisis
led to abandonment of elaborate
plans to develop the two thick
coal-seams of the Ben Bullen
area. A special railway branch-
line was being built into the
area ; concrete foundations were
already laid for a coal-washing
plant to treat coal from a fully-
mechanised underground col-
liery going in off the open-cut
workings. It was all wiped.
The Coal Board, with its sub-
sidiary the N.S.W. Mining Com-
pany, studied the best methods
of planting the scarred valley
with grass and trees. Restora-
tion had been covered in special
conditions of the leases, under
which the owners of the land
were granted compensation, the
amount fixed at so-much per
acre.
After consultations with the
Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission, the Soil Con-
servation Service and the Mines
Department, N.S.W. Mining
Company officials established an
experimental tree-plot in the
middle of the Ben Bullen cut.
They fenced-off an acre of over-
burden and ' planted seedlings,
with astonishing results.
Not only did the 10 different
varieties of eucalypts establish
themselves in shale and stone;
they thrived. In less than two
years some of the eucalypts
grew to a height of 7ft., and
all were strong and healthy when
the air-sowing began.
In the experimental plot were
rows of yellow-box, Blaxland
stringybark, broad-leaf pepper-
mint, manna-gum, silver-top
stringybark, red-box, mealy-
bundy, candlebark and narrow-
leaf peppermint. Further down
the plot were rows of Pin us
radiata, or .Monterey-pine.
Already the suitability of
abandoned open-cut workings
for pine-plantations had been
established a few miles south of
Ben Bullen. Here, in the Com-
monwealth area, Mr. Frank
Neubeck, of Lidsdale, planted
thousands of pines, now almost
ready for milling and thinning-
out.
Eventually, aerial sowing of
the devastated Ben Bullen area
was adopted on the suggestion
of N.S.W. Mining Company sur-
veyor Bob Peters, and the com-
pany called in Hazelton’s Air
Taxis.
Jim Hazelton, with his
assistant, John McKeachie, did
the air-sowing job, flying a
Cessna 180 and an Auster. Both
are 25-year-old typical bush
pilots; adventurous young
chaps who accept a charter to fly
anyone anywhere at any time.
The trim little Cessna—an all-
metal, high-wing monoplane —
and the Auster were fitted with
half-ton bins immediately behind
the pilot’s seat. Into the bins
went the mixture of fertiliser
and seed.
The cover of the 500 acres was
completed in about six hours’
flying-time ; coverage about 101 b.
of seed to the acre. The grass-
mixture was Wimmera rye-grass,
dwalganup, Mt. Barker sub-
terranean-clover and Rhodes-
grass.
Into each mixture of grass
went a handful or two of pine-
seeds and several types of
acacias, principally the hardy
Cootamundra-wattle.
Each bin-load also held seven
bags of superphosphate, one of
sulphate-of-ammonia and a
packet-and-a-half of Nitrofix, a
preparation to form nodules
on the roots of the clover, assist-
ing m a strike on stony ground.
Using the high-powered
Cessna, which has virtually no
stalling-speed, in preference to
the slower, low-powered Auster,
Jim Hazelton turned on a thrill-
ing exhibition of low-flying at
its best, the fine spray floating
wide across the valley. He esti-
mated that the wind-drift was
such that each run saw a cover-
age of 4j acres, with the mixture
spreading about 2cwt. to the
acre.
A “veteran” crop-sprayer,
Jim Hazelton said the firm got
from New Zealand the idea of
buying aircraft fitted with bins;
in N.Z. spraying of crops from
the air is subsidised by the
Government under methods of
concentrated-farming. More and
more Australian graziers, he
said, were beginning to realise
the advantages in aerial spraying
of fertiliser and seed.
Mining officials have said they
will be satisfied with a 25 per
cent, strike over the Ben Bullen
area, but, going on the success
of the eucalypts in the experi-
mental plot, Bob Peters reckons
the tree-seeds will do much
better than that.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A blanket-finish gives a handi-
capper much satisfaction, and
there was a grand one in Canter-
bury Park Flying on Saturday,
when five of the 11 runners
crossed the line with heads
between them —a tribute to
S.T.C. handicapper Bert Creagh,
who is doing a fine job for the
club. However, the best finish
at the Park in years didn’t please
takers of the odds, as rank out-
sider King Boru came with a
withering run on the outside to
beat another “roughie,” Lucky
Stride, with the second-favorite,
Teranyan, third.
Of the horses beaten in the
Canterbury Park Flying, and yet
likely to contest the Doomben
Ten Thousand next Saturday
week, Teranyan and Lindbergh
shaped best, but Cragsley was a
little disappointing. Teranyan
was cramped for room nearing
the winning-post, but his trainer,
Leo O’Sullivan, said the colt
was beaten on his merits. For
the Doomben, though, Teranyan
drops from 8.6 to 7.11. Also,
the three-year-old colt has been
a model of consistency, one of
his best recent efforts being his
close second to Knave in the
Stradbroke.
New Zealand sprinter Ripon
had his first Australian start in
the Canterbury Flying, and his
showing indicated that he could
quickly win a suburban sprint.
Now owned in Sydney, he is
trained at Randwick by Jack
Mitchell. The gelding showed a
lot of pace and was handy at the
finish, and he hadn’t raced for
five months. In December-
January last he won three races
from four starts and was a close
second at the other outing. He
is a smart four-year-old by Super
(imp.) from Jan. Super was
lightly raced in England and in
New Zealand.
Canterbury Park trainer
Charlie Munro brought off an
unusual double when he won
both divisions of the Canterbury
Welter with horses raced by the
same owner, M. J. Thurbon —
Sunny Hour, winner of the first,
and Finisterre, who landed the
second at 25 to 1. It was the
owner’s first winning-double in
about 40 years’ racing. Since
he acquired Sunny Hour that
entire has kept on winning,
especially on holding tracks, but
Finisterre has mostly proved a
stopper after setting up useful
leads in his races. In fact, only
two days before his win negotia-
tions for his sale had fallen
through.
This year’s Doncaster winner,
Slogan 11, and last year’s winner,
Fire Dust, competed in the
Canterbury Park Handicap, and
both were well fancied, Fire
Dust starting favorite and land-
ing the money. He was in much
better racing-condition than the
New Zealander, who hadn’t
started since his Doncaster suc-
cess, but seems certain to do
better next time out. Fire Dust
was ridden by N. McGrowdie,
who had won the Randwick mile
on him. It’s expected that Fire
Dust will be set for the Doom-
ben Cup, to be run on July 14
over 11 furlongs less 22yds. He
won’t be troubled by the distance
of the Doomben event, in which
he has the light weight of 7.3, or
31b. above the limit. That cer-
tainly seems an attractive impost
for a winner of the Doncaster
with 7.10.
Valiant Prince, who is
prepared at Randwick by Vic
Thompson and partial to soft
going, won his second race in
three starts when he led most of
the way in the Canterbury Two-
year-old Handicap, giving
promising apprentice Jim Angus
an easy ride.
Ridden by J. Thompson,
Replenish won her first race
when she easily defeated a
moderate field in the Second
Ashbury Stakes at Canterbury,
starting favorite. She is speedy
and could win in similar com-
pany before long. She’s by Nilo
(imp.) from Portobo by Mani-
toba (imp.) from Grey Port
(imp.) by Portlaw.
Caulfield patrons began Satur-
day afternoon with outsiders in
each division of the Minook
Two-year-old. Cabiri, winner
of the first division, is a
Helios (imp.) colt from Purity
by Melfort (imp.) from Hall
Mark’s Sister (dam of Murray
Stream) by Heroic from Hero-
winkie (sister to Trivalve) by
Cyklon (imp.). Lambourn,
winner of the second division, is
raced by his breeder, H. G.
Raymond, and is a gelded son of
Great Britain and Miss Epinard
(imp.) by Emir d’lran. A first
foal, Lambourn is related to
English winners, including
Columeille (Great Yorkshire
Handicap).
Colin Chisholm, of Khan-
coban stud, Corryong (Vic.),
bred Goldbao, surprise winner
of the Caulfield Second Trial;
he’s trained by O. M. Lynch,
who also won the preceding
event with Tradfield, and who,
though he has led in many
winners, hadn’t won a race at
Caulfield before. Goldbao is a
three-year-old gelding by Bilbao
(imp.), his dam, Florist, being by
Andrea (imp.) ,from Sweet Pea
(imp.) by Chaucer.
* * *
It was not easy to pick a
winner at Caulfield. Cabiri
(14/1) ran down the course in
the same sort of race a fortnight
ago ; Lambourn (16/1) had been
a poor second to Arab’s Choice
in a weaker field a week before ;
Haydon Day, winner of the first
Trial, had been fancied and
unplaced at his previous runs ;
Goldbao (33/1) had been run-
ning indifferently; Tradfield
(5/1) had been well beaten in
weaker company than the Rich-
mond Handicap ; Philstar (7 /1)
had not run like a coming win-
ner at his two previous races
since a spell, and High Volume,
14-to-l Welter winner, had been
beaten in S.A. Welters recently.
A string of form-certainties
bit the mud. Arab’s Choice
(5/4 on) was buffeted badly in
Cabiri’s race, and in the other
Two-year-old Sir Imp (6/4) ran
nowhere near his recent form for
no discernible reason. Targoo
(7/4), a country champ.,
Harmonist (9/4), Swynphilos
(2/1), Eager Son (10/9 on) and
Showdown, one of the 8-to-l
fancies for the Welter, had all
won impressively or raced most
promisingly at their last appear-
ances. The going, the false-rail
and the big fields no doubt all
contributed to the happy week-
end for the books.
The exceptional, backable
winners were Kingsmore and
Moltema in the jumping-double.
Kingsmore (2/1) led all the way
in the Toolambool Hurdle,
clearing out to win by eight
lengths. Still, every other runner
with a chance on form fell in
some fashion —Chief Bout, Paid
Up, Bar Sinister, The Final and
Arabil. Moltema (6/1) has been
racing consistently and beat Van
Perri and Pedro’s Pride in the
Roisel Steeple very nicely ; but
it seemed that Pedro’s Pride, five
lengths behind him, would have
won if she had not been too
far out of her ground. She was
20 lengths behind the leaders
halfway, and still only seventh
at the half-mile.
Sale of My Babu for
£A270,000 by the Maharanee of
Baroda. to American millionaire
Leslie Combs represents the
third-highest price ever paid for
a thoroughbred stallion. My
Babu will be located at Combs’s
Kentucky stud. Nashua was
sold at £A570,000, while Tulyar,
as a three-year-old, realised
£A250,000 —then a world record.
An interesting entrant for the
Warwick Farm Welter next
Saturday is the aged gelding Bon
Rouge, who hasn’t had a race-
start since March 12, 1955. As
a five-year-old, Bon Rouge won
three races from six starts, in
two of them being ridden by
George Moore, best effort being
a runaway success in a Rosehill
Flandicap at 10 furlongs.
+ +
The second cricket Test at
Lord’s was a real Test-match,
with both sides fighting back
from reverses. It began with
a surprise or two. One was the
dropping of Lock for Wardle
(explainable later by illness), and
another was Statham’s falling to
the ground as he bowled the first
ball of the match. Also some-
what of a surprise, Australia’s
registering of its first century
opening-partnership of the tour
(137).
“Mid-on”: This is an age of
speed and the atomic bomb, but
"THEY'RE the sort of panties I Want, Chas, with a
matching bolero for beachwear.”
it’s more like the age of an old
“bomb” the way these fast-
bowlers have broken-down in
England this season.
“Moorapi”: Jim Burke’s per-
formance at Nottingham (58 n.o.
in four-hours) qualifies him for
the select list of those who have
saved their teams from Test
defeat by stonewalling. Alec
Bannerman made 41 in four-
hours for Australia at Melbourne
in 1891 and 91 in in the
following Test in Sydney;
Herbert Collins, later Aussie
captain, put-up 40 in 4hrs. 55min.
at Manchester in 1921 ; and
Trevor Bailey helped to save
England at Leeds in. 1953 with
his 38 runs in 4hrs. 15min.
* * *
The V.F.L. side easily won
the carnival in Perth, with a
handsome victory over each of
the other four teams. While it
was putting the finishing touches
to the carnival by carving-up
W.A., the second half of the
split 10th round of the V.F.L.
was played in Melbourne.
Carlton won easily what was its
126th game with Fitzroy, by a
clear-cut six-goal margin, 13.11-
7.11, and is in fourth place, level
on match-points with Geelong
and Collingwood. Melbourne,
of course, beat South, 12.10-
8.11, though South won in many
positions, and Essendon, behind
for three quarters, finished
brilliantly to defeat Hawthorn,
12.20-10.11.
“Goalsneak”: There were
three winners of the Brownlow
Medal in the V.F.L. team which
won the Australian Rules
carnival in. Perth. Overlooked
(B. 6/6/’56) was V.F.L. skipper
Bill Hutchison, who won the
Medal in 1953. Hutchison has a
very good Brownlow record, in
fact; in 1952 he was second to
Roy Wright and last year was
runner-up to Fred Goldsmith,
and in both 1948 and 1951 he
finished third. (Wright and Gold-
smith were the other two
Medallists at the carnival.)
There were two Jack Clarkes
at the Australian Rules carnival
in Perth —though both, for that
matter, were at the 1953 carnival,
where both won an all-
Australian blazer. One was
Essendon and Victorian centre-
man ; the other East Fremantle
and W.A. follower and back-
pocket defender. Another
Clarke, Noel, former Melbourne
spearhead, was in Perth with
Tasmania.
“Atala”: The other day, in a
Hills Association game (S.A.),
Stirling defeated Bridgewater
43.41-0.0—299 points in all. It’s
not a record for junior football,
though maybe for the particular
association: last year in a junior
league in northern Victoria
Grogan East kicked 63.23 (401
points) to Liang’s 1.2. But of
interest too is the fact that 43
goals have been kicked in two
high-scoring games recorded by
Miller’s Sporting Annual —Port
Melbourne’s defeat of Sandring-
ham in 1941 (43.29-7.9) and
W.A.’s win over Queensland at
the 1924 carnival (43.19-2.1).
Bob Pratt is a legend in Aus-
tralian Rules football; he’s the
man who holds the goal-kicking
record (150 goals) for a V.F.L.
season, with South Melbourne
in 1934. And in 1941, with
Coburg in the V.F.A., he booted
183 goals, exceeded only once in
a V.F.A. season. He was one
of the greatest full-forwards. In
May last year South promoted to
be its spearhead another Bob
Pratt, his 18-year-old son, a good
mark and straight kick, but lack-
ing somewhat in height and
reach. Young Pratt was per-
sisted with in front of goal till
early this season, without doing
anything startling; and it was
clear he wasn’t going to emulate
his dad. Then he was shifted to
a half-forward flank, where he’s
been doing so well that it’s to
some extent due to him that
South now has, in Bill Gunn, its
most successful spearhead since
Bob Pratt senior.
* . * *
With Randwick going under
to St. George, Gordon hoisted
itself to the top of Sydney’s
Rugby Union table by over-
whelming Northern Suburbs
29-0; there was only one team
in it. In its last three games
Gordon has scored 19 tries and
had one scored against it. Eastern
Suburbs also won easily, beating
Manly 22-8, but the other three
games were close. ’Wick was
beaten 6-3, University, down 3-5
near the bell, had a “last-
minute” 8-5 win over Drum-
moyne, and Parramatta surprised
by defeating Eastwood 6-5.
“Kanimbla”: There will be
no Duntroon-G.P.S. Rugby
Union game this year. G.P.S.
headmasters have called it off
because of Duntroon’s more
robust football in recent years,
and because of Duntroon
players’ greater age. The match
has been an annual affair since
1928, except in 1940, when
G.P.S. played R.A.A.F. This
year’s cancellation may well
prove the end of the fixture. Pity
it couldn’t be maintained with
an age-limit for Duntroon
players.
* * *
In mud and rain in Brisbane
Australia beat N.Z. 8-2 in the
second Rugby League Test.
Australia’s two tries were great
efforts ; centre Poole, as he had
done in the first Test in similar
conditions, dribbled the ball,
Soccer style, 20yds. to fall on it
over the line. N.Z. tried hard,
and never let up. Australia thus
won, for the first time since N.Z.
won it in 1937, the Trans-Tas-
man Cup; but some of the
reasons for N.Z.’s long tenure
are that no Tests were played
on the Kiwis’ 1938 visit, there
was no further series till 1948,
and in two of the later series two
Tests only were played, one
Test being won by each both
times.
“Treb Yats”: The old Rugby
League football wizard (Duncan
Thompson) still knows a wrinkle
or two. For the sixth consecutive
season Toowoomba, coached by
Thompson, has won the Bulimba
Cup series, against Ipswich and
Brisbane’s best. Some mighty
players have passed through
Thompson’s hands (Thompson
was once a mighty player
himself, half-back), and he’s
usually been able to show most
of them just that “little extra”
that brings off the try. Six
Toowoomba players have
represented Queensland this year.
“Selja”: In Rugby League
matches why does a forward
always play dummy-half? Surely
the half-back should be the
logical “dummy”? The League
half as a rule doesn’t do nearly
as much true half-back work as
does the Union half. In recent
years it has been remarked how
often Australian Test half Keith
Holman has tackled forwards
twice as big as he is. Very
creditable, and Holman’s a great
footballer ; but surely why he’s
had to do a forward’s job so
much is because some forward
is busy doing his l
* * m
Corrimal and Leichhardt, two
strongest teams in the southern
division of N.S.W.’s Soccer
premiership, played a one-all
draw on Saturday, Leichhardt a
little unlucky not to win. Test
outside-left Harry Robertson,
who headed-in its goal, also
headed-in another from a goal-
mouth scrimmage, after the
forward-line had beaten the
defence; but he was ruled
offside.
* * *
Australians have done well in
recent years in the Queen’s Club
tennis tourney, held just before
Wimbledon. In 1954 and 1955
four Australians fought out the
semi-finals of the men’s singles,
and this year three of the four
were Australians. Rosewall,
winner of the title for the last
three years, again reached the
final, but this year was defeated
—by Victorian left-hander Neale
Fraser, 7-5, 3-6, 9-7. Hoad did
not start in the singles.
The Americans Seixas and
Richardson won the doubles,
from Hoad and Rosewall.
“Kanimbla”: Bobby Mark,
now overseas in Harry Hop-
man’s care, comes from Albury
(N.S.W.), as does former Davis
Cup player Rex Hartwig. When
Mark entered Albury High
School five years ago the sports-
master asked him: “What games
do you play?” Mark wasn’t very
interested in sport, but as a
choice had to be made he picked
up a tennis-racquet and said,
“I’ll try this.” Thus began a
sporting-career that may one day
make his name as world-famous
as are those of Crawford, Hop-
man, Sedgman, Hoad co.


Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOJJ&
osmxrvAN
prrua
■V
AS BR' 5 .
TRADE
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yorls
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD ( Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN .ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches La all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
Break It Gently
By MAUREEN LUSON
PHOEBE looked up from
the pile of women’s maga-
zines and said, “Darlene
will be going to school
soon, Edward. It’s really time
she was told about things.”
“Oh, yes. Father Christmas
and all that,” mumbled Edward.
Seven years of being married to
Phoebe had taught him little but
the gentle art of acquiescence.
“Don’t be stupid. Darlene
knows Father Christmas is a
myth. I mean the Facts of
Life.”
“Oh, yes. Birds and bees. And
flowers.” Edward tried to look
suitably frank ; recently Phoebe’s
heavy diet of “helpful” articles
had made her a believer in free
and frank discussion of all
domestic problems.
“I could,” said Phoebe, “start
her with male and female
flowers —the pumpkin . . . But
birds are really quite different.
And bees are only incidental.”
“Quite incidental. The poor
s don’t have any sex-life.”
Edward grinned until Phoebe’s
glare informed him that he was
being coarse, not frank.
“But the pumpkin doesn’t go
far enough,” pursued Phoebe.
“And I don’t intend Darlene to
be left with a confused impres-
sion. Now, you know the old
bitch next-door?”
“Oh, Pheeb! Poor Mrs.
Harroway! ”
“Edward! Not Mrs. Harro-
way. Zest.”
“Zest? What? Oh, you mean
the dog.”
“Bitch,” corrected Phoebe.
“Bitch, then. What about
her?”
“She-’s in pup,” declared
Phoebe triumphantly. “Mrs.
Harroway told me this morning.
She thinks they’ll be due the
week before the school-term
begins. Isn’t it fortunate? Dar-
lene will be able to see the
birth.”
“Fine,” said Edward. And
for the first time was glad that
Darlene was a girl. If Darlene
had been a boy ... he recoiled
from the vision of himself wit-
nessing the birth of the ancient
spaniel’s pups, while explaining
the facts of life to a small boy.
WHEN Phoebe, smiling pur-
posefully, led Darlene
across the garden to the
vegetable-patch, Edward drove
the car out on to the Nature-
strip and became busily absorbed
inside the bonnet. He wished
the day were not so calm and
still, so that Phoebe’s bright
voice carried with all the clarity
of a radio breakfast-session.
“Mummy’s got something so
exciting to tell you about,
Darlene. She wants you to
listen specially carefully. Now,
you see this lovely big yellow-
flower. And this one here —it’s
a little bit different in the middle,
isn’t it? It’s a mummy-flower.
And it’s the clever mummy-
flower that grows the lovely
pumpkins”
“I don’ like pumpkins,” said
Darlene.
“No, dear. But the mummy-
flower can’t grow the pumpkins
unless the kind daddy-flower
sends her some pollen by a dear
little bee messenger-boy”
“Mummy, when I go to
school, can I buy a meat-pie
for lunch? I don’t like sam-
widges.”
“Yes, dear. And when the
little bee messenger-boy gets
to”
“Mummy! Do look at
Daddy! He’s gone right undea-
neef the car!”
“Do listen, Darlene!”
But Darlene was scudding
down the drive.
“She just wasn’t interested,”
Phoebe told Edward afterwards.
“I’m worried. I do hope she
isn’t going to be a problem-
child.”
“There’s still Zest,” said
Edward.
TT seemed so opportune, the
next day when Phoebe and
Darlene returned from a
shopping-expedition, that Zest
was waddling along the footpath
outside the Harroways’.
“Nice Zestie! Good doggie!”
cried Phoebe, stooping to
pat her. Zest wagged her
tail, rolled completely over with
the effort, and presented her
awful belly for Phoebe’s caress.
“She’s a silly dog,” said
Darlene. “She’s fat and lazy.”
Zest’s ears were spread on the
footpath like limp, dirty hearth-
rugs ; she lolled a gooey tongue
at Phoebe’s hand.
“You should be very sweet to
Zest just now, Darlene,” said
Phoebe. “There’s a very special
reason why she’s so fat. You
see, she’s going to have some
dear little puppies of her own.”
“Why?” asked Darlene.
“Because well she wants
some, dear. Just like mummies
want little babies of their own.”
“Missus Jenkins doesn’t,”
said Darlene. “I heard her tell-
ing Missus Harroway if it was
twins again she’d do somefin
darstick.”
“Well, anyway, Zest wants her
little puppies. And do you know
where they are now, Darlene?”
“At the vet.’s.”
“No, dear. They’re right in-
side Zest. All cosy and comfy
and warm.”
“She’s silly,” said Darlene.
“She orter get puppies from the
vet. if she wants some. It’d be
nicer for them. Mummy, when
I go to school, can I have one of
those pencil-boxes with a lid that
rolls under like Mary Greene’s?”
“Do you think we should take
Darlene to a psychiatrist?”
Phoebe asked Edward when the
child was in bed. “I’m so afraid
she’s maladjusted. All properly-
adjusted children should have
a natural interest in sex.”
“Give her time,” said Edward
with an unusual flash of
brilliance.
It turned out after all that
Zest’s puppies were only figments
of that frustrated and overfed
canine’s imagination ; gradually
she relapsed into morose accept-
ance of her barrenness.
“The puppies were at the
vet.’s, then,” said Darlene, after
Phoebe had tried to explain the
phenomenon. “And Zest didn't
want them, or she’d have gone
and got them. She’s silly.”
■pHOEBE searched the rnaga-
zines feverishly, but found
no parallel cases; the children
portrayed in print accepted with
rapt attention the intimate talks
handed-out by their so-poised
and glib parents.
Phoebe tried some of the
talks verbatim on Darlene—or
the first few sentences: Darlene
was extraordinarily quick at dis-
appearing-acts and red-herring
trailing.
The last few nights before the
term began, Phoebe tossed
sleeplessly, worrying about her
daughter’s entry into the great
world unequipped with full
understanding.
Edward said “Yes, dear,” at
intervals of snoring.
On the fatal morning, Darlene
was up almost as soon as it was
light, packing and re-packing
her brand-new school-case.
Phoebe, pale and puffy-eyed,
made a last despairing effort.
“Darlene, Mummy wants you
to promise her something.”
“All right. Mummy, isn’t it
nearly time to go?”
“Not yet. Now, listen, Dar-
lene. If ever the other little boys
and girls say anything you don’t
understand, promise to ask
Mummy about it straight away.”
“All right. How long till we
go, Mummy?”
When at* last Darlene, pink-
cheeked and radiant, had been
left to face life alone, Phoebe
went home and wept for two
hours.
But Darlene appeared to
thrive on school; no further
signs of maladjustment became
apparent.
And then, one afternoon, as
Phoebe brought her home,
Darlene said, “Mummy, there
was a boy said something I
didn’t understand to-day.”
Phoebe braced herself. Her
poor little girl, exposed in her
innocence to the nastinesses of
dragged-up brats!
“Mummy will explain. What
did the little boy say, Darlene?”
“I don’t know. I didn’t under-
stand.”
“Well, try and tell Mummy.”
What could it have been? Some
dreadful Word perhaps—beyond
her own ken. She might have
to appeal to Edward . . .
“I can’t. But he made us all
laugh ever-so. Teacher said he
was talking German. She didn’t
understand, either.”
Phoebe wiped the sweat off
her palms.
A YEAR later, Darlene went
often to play with her special
friend, Mary Greene. Mary’s
brother, Joey, was 10, a big boy
with a wide, freckled grin.
“I love Joey,” said Darlene.
“He’s a nice boy,” said
Phoebe, smiling fondly.
“He’s different from me and
Mary,” said Darlene.
“Well, yes, dear. Boys,” said
Phoebe eagerly, “are different
from girls. You see”
“He showed me how he’s
different,” said Darlene. “He
hasn’t shown any of the other
girls.”
Phoebe flushed indignantly.
Really, she wouldn’t have
thought that of Joey Greene . . .
“I’ll tell you, Mummy, if you
promise not to tell. Cross your
heart?”
“I expect I know, dear,”
began Phoebe gently.
“No. No one does. He’s got
six toes on one of his feet!”
Phoebe murmured weakly,
“How wonderful.”
■jVTOT until the next term did
- 1 - Darlene come home and say
that Terry Mooney was getting
a baby brother or sister.
“How lovely for him,” said
Phoebe; and determined that
Darlene should be told the facts
of life now or never.
“Mrs. Mooney’s going to
hospital to get it next month,”
said Darlene.
“It will be born in hospital,
Darlene. But Mrs. Mooney
already has the little baby. You
see”
“Why, Mummy! She hasn’t.
Terry said it’s growing in one
of those glass things in the
hospital. And he went and saw
Eileen and Shaun when Mrs.
Mooney went to get them.”
Phoebe could hardly wait till
Darlene was safely tucked-up to
pour out her woe to Edward.
“She wouldn’t listen to me,”
wailed Phoebe. “She said Terry’s
the top of the class, and he’s got
eleven brothers and sisters, and
he knows everything. And then
she went off to play mothers
with Mary. Edward, you must
talk to Darlene!”
Edward was horrified into a
direct negative.
“But, Edward, this misconcep-
tion may retard her develop-
ment. It may give her all kinds
of terrible frustration-
complexes”—
“Now, Pheeb.” He tried to
calm her by making a vague dab
at her cheek.
“Don’t touch me! You’re not
a father —you’re a monster. How
do you think it feels to be a
mother whose daughter has
rejected her? I’ve tried so hard,
and I’ve failed utterly; Darlene
just refuses to accept the facts
of life.”
“Yes, dear,” said Edward,
defeated.
A MONTH or so went by, and
Phoebe grew more nervy,
more convinced that Darlene
was hostile to her.
One morning she was violently
sick.
As, green and trembling, she
emerged from the bathroom, she
found Darlene outside ; she tried
to smile reassuringly, and was
puzzled at the joyous expression
on her daughter’s face.
She staggered back to the bed-
room and asked Edward to make
her a cup of tea.
“Sure. Poor old girl. I wonder
what upset you?”
In the kitchen, Darlene was
helping herself to cereal;
Edward, yawning, put the
kettle on.
“Daddy,” said Darlene, “when
will Mummy get it?”
“Get what, dear?” Edward
clattered cup and saucers ineptly.
“The baby.”
“Baby? What d’you mean—
baby?”
Darlene sighed and spoke
through the crackling of corn-
flakes bulging her mouth.
“Mummy’s been sick this
morning. Now she’ll have to
go to the doctor, and he’ll tell
her she’s getting a baby. About
time, too. And when it’s big
enough, she’ll go to the hospital
and fetch it. Don’t you know
the facts of life, Daddy?”
STONE ROSES
Like eyes, from which
The sculptor let
Fall petals
As tears to set
On words, the dark
Shape of which is
Symbol of
Some fatal kiss—-'*
Stone roses weep,
With stem and leaf
Twisted round
A plaque of grief.
N.s.w.
JOAN MAS.


\
w
. m
When we think of New Guinea our minds turn
naturally to that larger half of the island which
Australia possesses in Papua or administers in trust
from the United Nations.
But New Guinea is a larger entity, and I think
the time has come when we should be looking upon
its future in total terms.
Its political history is amazingly new. While
North and South America were being missionised
and settled, while Africa was being thinly
penetrated; indeed, for a full century after the first
white settlers came to Australia, the second-largest
island of the world lay awaiting its first
colonisation.
Only in 1898, in the decade after Australian
and German interest had been attracted to its
eastern half, was permanent Dutch settlement
established to the west. Yet New Guinea’s existence
had been known to European explorers since early
in the 16th century, and the Dutch in the Indies
had made trade contacts through local sultans.
The island’s importance, strategically and
economically, is recognised today.
The western portion has an area of 103,000
square miles, compared with 183,000 square miles
under Australian administration. On latest figures
to hand, Netherlands New Guinea has a native
population estimated at 700,000, of whom 170,000
are Christians, There are about 13,000 Europeans
and 15,000 Asians.
Confronting the Dutch are all the barriers of
terrain—the pervading jungle, stretching swamps,
lofty mountain ranges that face Australians
in developing our part of the island. And
accompanying these is the obligation to foster the
health, welfare and education of the native people.
Now, what we do with New Guinea is going
to be held to our account before the world. And
that is equally true of the Dutch.
In closer co-operation, I believe, the two
countries- could speed the civilising and developing
work that is there before them. I, for one, would
like to see a joint programme worked out by
Holland and Australia for the pooling of resources
and talents —in the interests of New Guinea as a
whole.
ee'i ux.
7
(suisnivin
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
p
YS,
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing^
COHVif tffllftl t ta. ITB. 10 10 0*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMANY RESURGENT
t\ESPITE occasional forecasts
of the bursting of the West
German boom, reports from on
the spot continue to give an
arresting picture of the country’s
post-war recovery and present
prosperity.
Recent contributions to this
picture include comments from
W. H. Johnston in “Yorkshire
Post” and the German corres-
pondents of London “Time and
Tide” and London “.Spectator.”
Johnston, in the course of a
series of articles on West Ger-
many, notes that "the strongest
impression is that of a powerful
nation which will soon be more
powerful and is resolved to play
a big international part”:
“This does not mean that the
average citizen wants power-
politics in the crude sense of
blackmail based on the posses-
sion of armaments; what it
means is that people are aware
of the country’s great economic
strength and are* overflowing
with confidence.
“This strength is not what is
often described as being an eco-
nomic miracle. The destruction
caused by the war has been
greatly exaggerated, and the in-
flux of refugees was a source of
strength and not of weakness.
These people contained a bigger
percentage of young and fit men
than did the resident population,
and they were easily absorbed
under the inflation which pre-
vailed until 1949.
“After the currency-reform
unemployment was fairly severe,
and all and sundry had to work
for a living or go hungry.
Another possibility remained.
People might just have said:
‘We have had enough,’ and
relapsed into apathy. They did
not; in Dr. Arnold Toynbee’s
terminology, they met the chal-
lenge ; and the fact that they
did meet it is the real justification
for their self-confidence.
“They have their reward. Pros-
perity has spread through the
different income-brackets, yet
there is a difference between the
German and the British pros-
perity.
“The new Germany provides
a more favorable climate for the
middle-classes than does the
British Welfare State (though
social expenditure is heavy in the
Federal Republic, too); and the
result has been striking. You
find a man employing a servant,
or running a car, or both, whete
his British counterpart has to
do without; you find an ease
and a relaxation among these
people which you do not find in
Britain.
“For the average German it
is economic and not military
power that matters. The mili-
tary have lost caste ; not because
the Allies willed it so but because
the man behind the lathe is so
obviously a better asset than
the man behind a gun.”
The writer in “Time and Tide”
contrasts the Germany of today
with that of 1946, when, from a
train at Munich, he “peered
through the frost-encrusted win-
dows at a melancholy horde of
children who went up and down
the line begging, while two
unkempt women fought like
tigresses for a packet of haver-
sack rations we had thrown
away as ‘unfit for human con-
sumption’ ” :
“I was to make that same
journey several times between
then and 1948, and if it had any
message for me it was the simple
one that ‘war does not pay.’ Yet
it is not easy to find much visual
evidence of those bitter years in
West Germany today. One
tends to forget that war ended
for the Germans 11 years ago,
since for us [Britain] there have
been so many other wars, major
and minor, to fill the intervening
years—Palestine, Malaya, Mau-
Mau and, of course, Korea. But
Germany was spared these and
could better tackle the task
of reconstruction, generously
bolstered by American and
British aid.
“Probably no other race could
have undertaken such a Hercu-
lean labor with quite the same
single-mindedness, energy and
efficiency, but the result of their
efforts has certainly been an eye-
opener for one Englishman
whose last memory of them, until
this year, was of a mob of people
scrabbling for food among swill-
bins outside a feed-halt near
Venlo.
“The extent of their fecovery
was brought home to me most
vividly during a visit to the well-
known beauty-spot of Hermans-
denkmal in the pine-woods high
above Detmold. We visited the
place on the first sunny Sunday
this spring, and there could be
no doubt about its popular
appeal. But what was note-
worthy was the solid air of pros-
perity which the crowds managed
to convey. The cars were newer,
shinier and more plentiful than
their British equivalents, and the
people were as well dressed as, if
not better than, a similar crowd
of sightseers in Britain.
“It is true that many of the
women were in sombre black,
but it is not until one sees the
invalid-chairs, crutches and limb-
less men about the place that one
fully appreciates the appalling
toll which. Hitler demanded of
his docile masses.
“The restaurants were crowded
with stolid burghers devouring
their Wiener Schnitzels and all
the trimmings at 12s. a head,
while we representatives of a
conquering race slunk off into
the woods to eat our sandwiches
(the British in Germany can
spare no marks for frivolities)
and to marvel at the German
powers of recuperation.
“No one who saw Germany
when she was prostrate, and who
has not seen her since until
today, could fail to be stirred by
the magnitude of her exertions
and the success of her efforts.
Yet therein lies a challenge
which far too few of the British
people properly appreciate. Here
is a nation which was beaten to
her knees less than 12 years
ago ; her cities were rubble, her
transport-services non-existent,
her shop-windows bare. Today
her goods are flooding out to
world markets with the promise
of unlimited credit and guaran-
teed delivery-dates. An antlike
activity dominates the entire
country.
“The success of these efforts
can best be gauged by quoting
as an example one Middle
London “Daily Mail "
MIDDLE EAST WARNING
Eastern capital where in 1952
it would have been difficult to
buy any West German product.
By 1955 the shops were full of
them and many merchants were
turning from British to German
manufacturers not because
their goods were better than
ours, but because their salesman-
ship was, and because the orders
arrived on the dates specified
and in the quantities demanded.”
The “Spectator’s” German
correspondent bases his com-
ments on a compendium of all
the most interesting polls taken
since 1947 by the Institute of
Public Opinion Research at
Allensbach —an institute “which
is heavily relied upon by Dr.
Adenauer and enjoys high
prestige among political parties
and business in general.”
“The portrait of the nation
which emerges from this book,”
the correspondent notes, “is of
one with simple tastes, both in
gastronomy and in politics, and
tastes which are nowadays
usually satisfied”:
“What the Germans eat most
today is (out of 20 dishes sug-
gested) potato-salad, goulash,
pea-soup, pork-schnitzel; what
they most like eating is schnitzel,
goulash, chicken-soup, stewed-
beef.
“Two-thirds of the popula-
tion get up before 6.45 a.m. and
like it, and the same proportion
goes to bed before 10.30 p.m.
Asked what they liked best to
see in their womenfolk, the men
answered ‘solid housewifely
characteristics’ (66 per cent.),
sex-appeal (13 per cent.), beauty
(3 per cent.). The women mainly
wanted their men to be success-
ful in their jobs (29 per cent.),
loyal (28 per cent.), were not
interested very much in their
intellectual attainments (14 per
cent.), and not at all in heroism
(1 per cent.).
“The steady, suburban char-
acter of post-war Germany is
nowhere better reflected than in
the answers to the question
‘What is in your dream come
true?’ —house and garden (18
per cent.), security and no
worries (16 per cent.), a win on
the pools (11 per cent.).
“The nation smokes little and
is smoking less. In 1950, when
German cigarettes were dear and
blackmarket Allied cigarettes
only slightly less so, there were
more smokers than non-
smokers ; now, with tobacco
much cheaper, it is the other
way about. More go regularly
to church now on Sundays than
in 1952.
“Two-thirds of those in work
find their jobs interesting or
mainly so, the majority like their
boss and the majority are
opposed to strikes in principle.
One-third said that if their work-
ing week was reduced from 48
hours to 40 they would still work
48 hours for the sake of the
overtime-pay. Material pros-
perity seems also to have affected
people’s views on their fellow-
men, since in 1949 46 per cent,
thought that there were more
evil men in the world than good,
in 1951 43 per cent., and in 1953
only 34 per cent.
“Although the nation is quite
well-informed on current politi-
cal events and spends an average
of over half-an-hour a day read-
ing newspapers, it is not well-
read. One German in three has
no books at home at all.
Knowledge of history and geo-
graphy is vague in the extreme.
Over half of those questioned
had no idea what the first verse
of ‘Deutschland Über Alles’ was
referring to when it claimed the
Meuse, the Belt, the Memel and
the Adige as the natural frontiers
of the Reich. Yet a high pro-
portion consider themselves
musical, and music ranks after
outdoor games and housework
(!) as favorite recreations.
Admittedly the taste is for ‘light
classical’ music rather than seri-
ous music, but serious music
still has a long lead over jazz.
“On political questions the
public-opinion institute provides
material for interesting conclu-
sions. Few tears are shed for
the Third Reich, one exception
being a question asked 12
months ago whether Hitler, but
for the war, would have counted
among the greatest of statesmen,
to which the answer was 48 per
cent. ‘Yes,’ 36 per cent. ‘No’ and
16 per cent. ‘Don’t know.’
“For every West German who
wants a new anschluss with


W:W<&
m
: 'v
'' J
m
ft: X
*» ■'
|jfea«yfc(fea
/
<|3
CLOTHES
(M &ccmi&uA (Asm.
Ol wui k nmfUiv tf&ok itu ikdt
One such occasion is his wedding day—you know those
other times —and you know how important it is to make
that good impression.
You know, too, that good clothes DO help. We are more
at ease and so more easily do our best when we FEEL
well dressed.
You can both LOOK your best and FEEL your best in the
new model Stamina De Luxe Suit. In attractive shades of
Navy and Coronation Blue, these De Luxe Suits are pre-
tailored from one hundred per cent. Pure Wool Crusader
Cloth.
They are Suits you will be proud and happy to wear.
YOUR special size is available!
Stamina
SUITS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Austria two are opposed. The
rejection of Communism is
categoric, yet it seems that only
a small majority are disposed to
fight to keep a Communist
invader out.
“In February last year the
question was put, ‘Which is the
more important, defending our
way of life even if it means
atomic war, or avoiding a war
at all costs even if it means liv-
ing under a Communist regime ?
“Only 38 per cent, were for
fighting to keep out Communism
against 34 per cent, who took the
fatalistic view and 28 per cent,
who sat on the fence waiting,
presumably, for a strong lead
from the Government of the
day. Despite the apparent
resignation in this answer the
majority appear to think that in
the event of an atomic war the
West would undoubtedly win in
the end, though it might mean
an initial American retreat from
the Continent.
“Another question put at the
same time was whether Germany
should accept a Soviet offer to
remove the obstacles to German
unity in return for a German
pledge not to join any Western
alliances. The answer was ‘No’
by 43 per cent, to 20 per cent.”
Saar Agreement
At the time of the Saar
plebiscite last October it was
hoped by the proponents of
European unity that the Saar-
landers would vote for the
“Europeanisation” of their small,
coal-rich country. Instead, the
vote was strongly in favor of
reunion with Germany.
The task since then has been to
work-out a transfer to Germany
which would have due respect
for the Saar’s economic links with
France between the steel-
industry of Lorraine and the
coalmines of the Saar —and,
comments New York “Herald
Tribune,” “this seems to have
been accomplished, after months
of painstaking preparation, at
the conference in Luxembourg
between Premier Mollet of
France and Chancellor Adenauer
of West Germany”:
“They have not written the
final treaty, but they have laid
the groundwork for its accom-
plishment. Under the agree-
ment, political control of the
Saar will revert to Germany on
January 1, 1957. A three-year
transition period will be allowed
for terminating the present
Customs and monetary union
between the Saar and France.
“Even after this period expires
—and this is the heart of the
agreement—France will continue
to get about one-third of the
Saar’s coal-output. Finally, both
parties agree to the construction
of a canal along the Moselle
River, which will give French
steel easier access to world
markets and also cut the cost of
conveying the Saar’s coal to
Lorraine’s plants.
“With a complicated and
highly technical treaty embody-
ing these points still to be
worked-out, the possibility of
ienewed differences and disputes
cannot be ignored. But the
quiet and statesmanlike way in
which the affair has been handled
so far encourages hopes that the
solution is really on the way.”
“New York Times,” paying
tribute to the French attitude in
the negotiations, notes that
“France consents that this tiny
but rich border-region, detached
from Germany after both World
Wars as an autonomous territory
under French economic control
and first returned to Germany in
1935, shall again revert to
Germany by the end of this year.
“In so agreeing, France bows
again, as in 1935, to the expressed
will of the Saar population.
Since a solution of the Saar
problem was a condition for
French consent to the rearma-
ment of Germany under the
North Atlantic alliance, France
deserves all credit for her
decision.
“Except for Trieste, which was
partitioned, the Saar settlement
represents the first major terri-
torial rectification since the last
war, and thus sets an example for
others.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds: “Two years
ago European statesmen had
grandiose plans for the Saar.
“It was to be the catalyst
around jvhich a new united
Europe would gather. The latest
Franco-German settlement looks
sadly unambitious in contrast.
It is more a businessman’s com-
promise than a statesman’s ideal.
But even if it does not altogether
bury the Franco-German hatchet
it certainly blunts its edges,
which, considering the past, is
no mean achievement.”
Exit Molotov
Typical press - farewells to
Vyacheslav M. Molotov when he
resigned as Soviet Foreign Secre-
tary—on the eve of Yugoslav
President Tito’s visit to Moscow:
“Manchester Guardian”: “Mr.
Molotov’s age—he is 66 and in
those 66 years has been through
a great deal —makes his retire-
ment natural enough. As a
Deputy Prime Minister he will
be the Only important leader be-
sides Marshal Voroshilov who
can look back on an important
share in politics before the Revo-
lution. Mr. Molotov is a survivor
in another sense. He does not
seem to have had an easy time
adapting himself to the temper of
the new ‘collective leadership.’
After years of faithful service as
Stalin’s executant he is not cut-
out for a smiling, flexible
diplomacy.”
* *
London ‘‘Daily Mail”: “On
May 3 [1939] Stalin and Molo-
tov began cooking the plot which
resulted jti the pact with Hitler
and made the Second World
War inevitable. Russia aban-
doned ‘collective security’ against
Hitler in return for half Poland.
The two Russians were parties
to a secret treaty for which some
of the Germans were executed
in Nuremberg after the war.
“In 1939 and 1940 Molotov
fell over himself to shake Hitler’s
bloody hand. When he thought
Warsaw had fallen he rushed a
message conveying ‘my congratu-
lations and greetings to the
Reich Government.’
“When Hitler invaded Norway
he wished him ‘complete suc-
cess.’ When France fell he
expressed to the German Am-
bassador ‘the warmest congratu-
lations of the Soviet Govern-
ment on the splendid success of
the German armed forces.’
“Thus Molotov. He had no
love for us [Britain] then, and
he has had none since. He
obstructed and wrecked most
attempts of the Allies of the
war to get together as the
architects of peace.”
* * *
New York ‘‘Herald Tribune”:
“Ever since Bulganin and
Khrushchev began beating the
drums for ‘competitive coexist-
ence’ there seemed to be no
further place for his [Molotov’s]
bleak and truculent brand of
diplomacy. He was the last of
the Old Bolsheviks still in high
office, a man who had managed
to survive for 30 years in one
of the most treacherous quick-
sands history has known. To
the new masters of the Kremlin,
Molotov bore too strongly the
stamp of the downgraded Stalin.”
* *h *
“New York Times”: “From
the longer-range point of view,
of course, Molotov’s resignation
is another sign of the passing of
the old guard in Soviet affairs.
Shepilov [his successor] repre-
sents the new generation of
leaders who have risen to the
top after the storms and tribula-
tions of nearly four decades of
Soviet life. This new generation
was raised and trained under
Stalin and Molotov, but it has a
different picture of the past than
the men who rose from hunted
revolutionaries to rulers of a
mighty State. Whether this new
generation of leaders will be an
improvement over those who
created Stalinist despotism only
time can tell.”
* * £
James Cameron, in London
“News Chronicle”: “What is
especially significant is the split-
second timing of Molotov’s
removal. He was one of the
major influences behind the big
Cominform earthquake of 1948,
when Tito of Yugoslavia was
drummed out of the ‘Soviet
Club’ by Stalin for ‘Nationalist
and un-Leninist deviation’ —that
is, for suggesting that there were
many roads to Socialism, of
which the Kremlin did not have
the monopoly.
“That heresy is now written
into Communist scripture, and
the multiple road is accepted.”
More Dollar Aid
Uncle Sam’s servicemen,
traditionally high spenders, are,
as “U.S. News and World
Report” pointed out, worth
about $3OOO million a year to the
overseas countries in which they
are stationed.
Summing-up this expenditure,
“U.S. News and World Report”
notes that “a big flow of U.S.
dollars —more than $3OOO million
in a single year —goes out from
the U.S. to pay American forces
abroad, buy supplies for them,
construct and maintain bases
and installations and meet other
expenses. These funds are in
addition to U.S. aid. When
lumped together, aid and direct
military spending this year alone
will come close to $7400 million.
“France, alone, will realise
nearly $lOOO million this year
because of U.S. defence-installa-
tions in that country and its
territories. That includes the
money Americans in uniform
will spend. It also includes pay-
ments to French firms which do
work for the U.S. armed forces,
cost of supplies for military com-
missaries and some direct pay-
ments to the French Govern-
ment.
“American bases in Britain
and its possessions mean $4OO
million to the United Kingdom,
plus smaller amounts spent in
such places as Bermuda, Trini-
dad and the Bahrein Islands.
“There is a similar outpouring
of dollars wherever the U.S.
armed forces show up in the
world —nearly $5OO million for
Japan, for example, and $250
million for West Germany. Even
nations that have no direct
military ties with the U.S., such
as Switzerland, Finland and far-
off Burma, are making dollars
through the widespread distribu-
tion of American defences. Often
the dollars for such countries
represent purchases of supplies.
“What makes this direct
spending by the U.S. a bonanza
for foreign Governments is the
fact that the money goes right
into countries abroad, and with
no strings attached. It assures
them a ready supply of scarce
dollars that can be used to pur-
chase American goods and in
their trade with other countries.
“This spending by the U.S.
Government to support and
maintain its soldiers, sailors and
airmen abroad is one reason why
foreign Governments are not
anxious to close-down American
bases in their territories. These
bases and installations are giving
them a steady income in good,
hard cash that goes on top of
U.S. foreign aid.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tax Rebates for Wives
There’s not much amusement in
filling-in income-tax returns, but I still
smile wryly at the current valuation, for
rebate purposes, of one’s “spouse” at
£l3O a year. An increase on the figure of
a few years back, this reflects the higher
price-level of other commodities, but it
is still unrealistic.
Working wives may now be a recog-
nised feature of the economy, but that has
no .bearing on the matter. The full
deduction of £l3O is specifically for wives
who do not work —wives who are wholly
maintained by their husbands during the
year. The concession is meant to help
the man who married (on July 1, 1955,
let us say) and then had to make the
weekly pay-packet support two instead
of one.
What is the real value of the concession
to him? It is certainly not £l3O more
in his pocket on June 30, 1956 —only the
tax payable on that sum. Assuming that
he could have this in his pocket (an
unlikely circumstance), it would not
amount to more than £2B unless he earned
over £lOOO a year. For the majority it
would amount to less. This is a small
sum to offset the expenses of his changed
way of life.
I don’t know on what grounds the
figure of £l3O has been calculated, but
it needs re-examination. Presumably
the amount bears some relation to the
estimated cost of wholly maintaining a
wife for a year, but either the estimate
is astray or the allowance has ceased to
bear any true relation to it.
The whole situation needs reviewing in
the next Budget.— Shindig (N.S.W.).
Aristotle
M. H. Ellis gives a pretty good review
of Aristotle’s contribution to human
knowledge (B. 13/6/’56), although he
does not mention that the old Greek
really shone in natural history.
Aristotle was the first to divide the
animal kingdom into species. He and
his pupils dissected animals and drew the
correct conclusions regarding the diges-
tive processes of the cud-chewers. He
observed how lowly forms of life repro-
duce.
When he was appointed tutor to
Alexander the Great, that young prince
was so impressed by Aristotle’s discoveries
that he ordered every fisherman, hunter,
beekeeper, herdsman and caretaker of
parks in the kingdom to forward any
information or specimens which might
be of interest to the philosopher.
During the last 150 years scientists
examining Aristotle’s work in the light
of modem knowledge have been
astounded by the way his mind hit upon
the truth or something very close to it.
Charles Darwin, for example, was
notoriously hard to impress, but in 1882
he wrote in a letter to his colleague
William Ogle that Linnseus and Cuvier
had been his gods—until he read the
works of the pioneer Greek naturalist.
“They were mere schoolboys beside old
Aristotle,” he declared.
Oddly, Aristotle’s work in natural
sciences was preserved because it was
included among his writings on meta-
physics. These are merely of academic
interest to most people, but his natural-
science inquiries put him among the
world’s great scientists. —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.). ______
Diesel or Steam
That defence of the diesel railway-
engine is sound (“Four Threes,” B.
6/6/’56), but it omits the most important
argument in favor of the diesel —its
superiority in relation to permanent-way
maintenance-costs.
With electric-diesels tractive-power is
applied evenly and centrally to the
driving-wheels through the driving-axles.
This results in minimum side-to-side
action by the unit against the running-
rails, and, consequently, diesels don’t
knock the permanent-way about unduly.
With steam, tractive-power is applied
laterally to the driving-wheels by sharp,
alternating thrusts. The unit therefore
lurches heavily—particularly at high
speeds—-against first one running-rail and
then the other. Because of this oscilla-
tion, heavy steam-engines wreak havoc
on the permanent-way.
This side-lurch against running-rails by
heavy traction-units is No. 1 enemy of
permanent-way maintenance; and de-
teriorated permanent-way is No. 1 head-
ache with railway administrators. Even
under normal conditions track-mainten-
ance is a constant and costly item. The
battering our railways took during the
war, plus the post-war labor-shortage,
has left most tracks in a very poor state
of repair—some sections could be
described as dangerous.
Damaged, run-down permanent-way is
causing greater loss to the community
than many people realise. The many
derailments and accidents —with conse-
quent destruction of merchandise, dislo-
cation of industry, ruined rolling-stock
and huge repair-bills—are making serious
inroads on the nation’s income. Add the
never-ending routine-repairs to wheels,
springs, engine-frames, etc. mostly
caused by bad rail-track conditions —and
the seriousness of the position is apparent.
Restoring the permanent-way must be
the first objective on any sensible pro-
gramme to bring railway-transport to
operational efficiency and financial
stability. Haulage-efficiency and opera-
tional costs aside, the electric-diesel,
because of its “easiness” on permanent-
way costs, is the country rail-haulage unit
of the future.-— Traveller (N.S.W.).
Religious People?
“Spartus” (B. 16/5/’56) says that
Australians cannot be classed as a' reli-
gious people. Would he mind naming
the nations which can be classed as
religious?—VX66o27 (Vic.).
Mining the Beaches
Ask any businessman along the coastal
strip between Brisbane and the northern
rivers of N. S. Wales for his views on
beach-mining and he is likely to explode
in anger.
Damage by cyclones to some of the
main surfing-areas in recent years has
been so extensive that preservation of the
sands has become a watchword. The
combined Progress Associations of the
Queensland south coast have denounced
beach-mining, while the entire Gold
Coast was practically up in arms when a
company submitted a claim to work an
area right, alongside the Currumbin bird-
sanctuary.
Despite such opposition, however, the
industry will continue to develop.
According to a survey of the mineral
content of beach-sands published by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources, the east
coast of Australia, from the Clarence
River (N.S.W.) to Stradbroke Island (Q.),
contains some of the world’s richest
deposits of minerals used in defence and
atomic-energy projects. From this area
is drawn about 90 per cent, of the present
world-consumption supply of rutile. The
mineral is used in the manufacture of
titanium, essential in the production of
jet-aircraft and in the welding-rod
industries.
The sands contain other high-grade
deposits, most important being monazite,
main source of the radioactive element
thorium, and zircon, used in ceramics,
refractories and special steel-alloys.
Export of rutile and zircon in 1955
earned more than £3,500,000 for Aus-
tralia, and extraction of minerals from
beach-sands now ranks third among
Australia’s mining industries. With new
companies entering the field, the unsightly
wooden structures which shelter the pro-
cessing-plant are mushrooming and
becoming a familiar sight at populated
and isolated beaches alike.
There is everything to be said for the
"We've decided on a long engagement .”
healthy progress of a valuable industry,
but there is urgent need for closer super-
vision of beach-mining companies,
Measures should be taken to preserve
native trees, many of which are being
needlessly destroyed. Behind sand-dunes
where access-roads are being made for
heavy sand-carrying trucks there is often
only a scanty cover of trees. Once this
is removed, erosion begins. There are
many examples along the coast of the
devastation that follows. It should be
a general responsibility to guard against
any extension of this devastation, and
a handful of mining companies cannot
exempt themselves from such responsi-
bility.
Just north of Ballina (N.S.W.), for
instance, trees were needlessly destroyed
“ How's tricks?"
to widen and extend a bush-road.
Further north, at Cudgen Creek, a patch
of indigenous scrub, habitat of native
birds, was bulldozed. Later, two city
M.P.s making a tour of the mining-area
were asked .to admire the effect.
Since beach-mining is bound to expand,
it is surely up to local authorities to see
that developmental work is done without
spoiling the bushland or unduly dis-
turbing the natural contours of beaches.
—Vee Jay (N.S.W.).
Queensland Hospitals
“Nursie” suggests (B. 30/5/’56) that it
might pay the other States to find out
how Queensland manages to provide free
hospital-services.
No investigation is necessary. The facts
are quite clear. Latest figures show that
the per-patient-cost of maintaining public
hospitals varies little from State to State.
Queensland hospitals, therefore, can only
provide free service because they receive
more Government assistance than hos-
pitals in other States. This assistance in
1954-55 amounted to £5 10s. per head
of population, as against approximately
£4 a head in N. S. Wales.
“Nursie” might retort that N.S.W. also
could increase the level of State assistance
to its hospitals. True, but only at the
expense of other services. Examination
of the various State Budgets puts the
problem into its proper perspective.
Revenues of all States are limited, but
must be distributed over a wide range of
activities. Obviously, final decisions as to
the distribution must be made in accord-
ance with the overall Budgetary position
of the State and in the light of many
factors having only local application.
There will always be wide divergences
between expenditures on particular ser-
vices in the various States, and it is a
mistake to attempt to look at special items
in isolation. An N. S. Welshman might
just as well point out that Queensland
allocates only 24 per cent, of its Consolid-
ated Revenue expenditure for education,
whereas the corresponding N. S. Wales
figure is 30 per cent.
Probably our best basis for comparison
comes from the figures on social-services
expenditure by the States, which were
released by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician last April. These show that while
Queensland in 1954-55 spent more per
head on “health, hospitals and charities”
than any other State, and had the second-
highest expenditure on “law, order and
public safety,” it ran a very bad last in
education. Total per-head-expenditures
on all three categories of social-services
were: Tasmania, £l9 9s. lOd.; W.A.,
£lB 18s. 2d.; N.S.W., £l6 12s. 6d.; Q.,
£l6 7s. Id.; .Victoria, £l5 13s. 2d.; S.A.,
£l4 11s. Id.
It boils down to a question of whether
it is better to spend more on hospitals,
so as to provide free services, or charge
for treatment and so make more money
available for education and other services.
—Loki (N.S.W.).
The Little Things
There is another side to that criticism
of country agents who don’t carry
adequate stocks of small spare-parts (B.
6/6/’56).
Many men who are appointed as
agents for implement-firms in country
towns are often easygoing in outlook,
and limited in capital, clerical experience
and office-space and storage-space.
Sometimes they have a number of irons
in the fire, few of which are looked after
very well. In many cases office-work is
anathema to them. Consequently stock-
requirements are not kept up to date,
nor are supplies replenished as they
should be. Capital is often not
available to pay for the spare-parts, and
trading-firms rightly do not forward on
consignment.
Then why not appoint more suitable
agents? This is not always politic or
possible, because the party concerned may
have many friends and relatives in the
locality and a dismissal might harm the
particular organisation—country people
are clannish. Secondly, likely applicants
for jobs such as these are not easily found
in rural areas.
My experience is that large enterprises
like to know that their customers are
satisfied, because it means return-
business. They are also keen to see their
rural representatives giving satisfactory
and appreciated service.
One of the outstanding examples in
the field of looking after customers is
General Motors, which insists that its
Holden dealers are of the right type, with
up-to-date garages carrying stocks of
spare-parts to meet any emergency. This
function is insisted upon and is man-
datory.
I can’t agree that big manufacturers
and selling organisations are all to
blame for the shortages of the little
things. The blame often rests with the
local man who hides behind arguments
that won’t bear close investigation.
Some companies may be different, but
they are very much in the minority.—
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).


Insurance
Does “Insurer” (B. 23/5/’56) know
that U.K. capital investments in Australia
have declined by over £lOO million
since 1939, while in the same period
premiums paid in Australia (75 per cent,
of them to U.K. branches) increased
from £l6 million to £lOO million?
Granted that overseas insurance com-
panies provide employment for Aus-
tralians in their branches. If there were
no overseas companies, however, their
staffs would be absorbed by national
companies to the greater enrichment of
Australia.
In like circumstances the national com-
panies would provide all the fire-brigade
contributions required of insurers under
the various State Acts, now in part borne
by overseas companies.
Agreed that the practice of risk-sharing
demands that insurers, overseas or
national, transfer part of their premiums
overseas. The grouch on Australia’s
part is that when overseas companies
reinsure their Australian-branch sur-
pluses the return reciprocal volume and
profit is not credited to the Australian
branch. Does anyone deny that these
profits are impounded overseas, unlike
those of national companies which, when
taxed, enrich Australia’s economy?
If it were a fact that “Australian insur-
ance companies have no beneficial effect
on export industries,” why not group in
that category national life-assurance
companies which have over £lOOO million
invested in Australia? And why not
include the banks indigenous to Aus-
tralia?
Australian insurance companies, includ-
ing life-offices, do export a substantial
volume of their surpluses overseas, but
unlike overseas companies they succeed
in obtaining a high percentage of
reciprocity for the benefit of Australia’s
economy.
It would have been bad business for
Australia if national financial institutions
such as banks and assurance and insur-
ance companies had not come into being,
or were replaced by their U.K. counter-
parts.—National (N.S.W.).
Dr. Coombs
If, by “C.H.C.’s” reasoning, Dr.
Coombs becomes a Socialist because he
was appointed by Chifley (B. 6/6/’56),
surely he was a Liberal when appointed
by Lyons or Menzies.
Dr. Coombs can hardly be said to have
“acquired” his economics at the London
School of Economics. He completed his
Master’s Degree at the W.A. University
in 1934 by writing a thesis on “The
Development of the Commonwealth Bank
as a Central Bank.” One of the founders,
who granted about £500,000 to this uni-
versity, was a newspaper-owner of Con-
servative views ; hence Dr. Coombs must
have been somewhat a Conservative in
outlook (if we use “C.H.C.’s” logic)
before being inundated with Fabian
Socialism in London.
Sidney Webb founded the London
School of Economics —with the advice
“Come over and say that? I'll say I will!”
and help of Haldane, a Liberal M.P.,
and Balfour, a Conservative—in his
capacity as a member of the London
City Council and chairman of the
Technical Education Board, where,
incidentally, he favored the continuation
of grants to church-schools. As one of
his biographers states: “Genuinely
impassioned for education, genuinely
tolerant of views different from his own,
what he was concerned to secure was the
utmost variety and flexibility in educa-
tional system, consistent with the attain-
ment of a reasonably high standard.”
In any case, to argue that graduates of
the London School of Economics are
Socialists because one of its founders was
a member of the Fabian Society is as
absurd as to claim that they subscribe to
the political views of Lord Rothschild,
“Ever have one of those off-days?”
who was one of its earliest presidents and
made large grants to the school. —R. A.
Cotton (W.A.).
Retired Men
“Tock Emma” (B. 23/5/’56) should be
pleased to know that Melbourne has an
organisation for employment of retired
people.
This is the “50-and-over Association”
with headquarters in Market-street. The
president is the secretary of the
Employers’ Federation. When I visited
the association 700 men and women were
enrolled —all of them compulsorily retired
from active employment by the age-
regulations.
These people knew they could still do
some useful job, part-time or full-time,
and hundreds of them have been placed
in satisfactory work by the association.
The idea that people over 65 years
should be left to their hobbies is out of
date. There is an enormous pool of
willing workers who can be drafted into
profitable employment, “Tock Emma’s”
suggestion that the Commonwealth
Employment Service should help these
anxious workers is an excellent proposi-
tion. — Smeaton (Vic.).
Prawns
It’s a reflection on some of our
food-marketing that, as a prelimi-
nary to the export of prawns to the
U.S.A., an American expert is coming
to N.S.W. to train girls in methods of
prawn-packing.
Americans wouldn’t look at a prawn
(they call ’em shrimps) with its head on.
Before they’re at all welcome in any of
the 170,000 U.S. stores retailing them,
prawns must at least have their heads and
legs off—just for a start, that is.
They’re marketed mainly in frozen-
form, packed in 51b. waxed cartons, and
can be bought raw, cooked, peeled, de-
veined or “breaded. For the more
fastidious customer, there are prawn-
soup, prawn-aspic, prawn-fisque, prawn-
cake, cocktail prawn-curry, smoked
prawns and prawn-paste.
Contrast that moum-watering array
with Australia’s one and only way of
retailing the luscious prawn . . . boiled,
heads and all. — Kune (N.S.W.).
Tropical Homes
When one looks at most of the homes
in inland northern towns, it is obvious
why people drift to the coast.
Architects, few of whom have lived out
west, regularly come up with a design
for an “ideal tropical home,” with double
concrete walls, fancy roofing and masses
of insulating material. All very nice, but
the cost of such places is prohibitive,
since all materials have to be transported
from the coast.
Some Government departments are
providing a suitable type of home for
their employees, but most private home-
builders still stick to unimaginative and
unsuitable designs.
The main requirements of inland
homes are coolness, economy in building
(construction-costs can be very high) and
protection against insects, dust and white-
ants.
This gives great scope for a cheap
and easily-maintained home air-condi-
tioning plant. This would mean a house
in which all external doors and windows
would be kept shut, to preserve an even
and regulated temperature inside, and
would automatically exclude all dust,
as well as flies, mosquitoes and other
insect-pests. The windows would be
necessary for light only, and would only
need to be opened in the event of failure
of the equipment. As all air is cleaned
and cooled before entering, dust within
the house would be reduced to a
minimum.
Such a plant, if mass-produced, need
not cost more than a hot-water system,
and most people would forgo quite a few
luxuries in favor of air-conditioning.
But the cost must be within the reach
of every home-owner. —B 13 (Q.).
Free Medicine
“Acne” (B. 13./6//56) hasn’t got all
the facts.
The 3oz. bottle prescribed by doctors
contains a linctus with a dosage of one
teaspoonful every four hours. That
means 24 doses, which would normally
last eight days, unless the medicine is
to be taken 24 hours a day. In that
case it would last four days.
A repeat is allowed without a further
script. Rarely is the third bottle
required, but if it is the patient’s condition
is such that another visit to the doctor
is necessary.
The majority of mixtures, however,
are still prescribed in the Boz. size and
four repeats are allowed without another
prescription, so that the patient may
obtain 40oz. of the mixture without a
further visit to the doctor.
In all, the system appears to be sensible,
with the smaller bottle preventing waste
of expensive drugs—the medicine-chest
of every home is generally cluttered with
half-empty bottles. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Weekend Work v
Building-contractors at Wangaratta
(Vic.) have warned employees that they
will be dismissed if they work on week-
ends without permission from their
employers.
Some employees are reported to be
earning up to £25 for weekend work,
and are booked for weeks ahead. The
employers, naturally enough, consider
that a man who earns big money on
Saturday and Sunday is hardly likely,
or able, to exert himself during the five
days of the nominal working-week. In
effect, he is making his big weekend
earnings at the expense of his weekday
employer.
The fact that building-contractors
have found it necessary to take such a
firm stand shows the 40-hour five-day
week in its true colors. Nobody really
wants it. The experience of Australians
in post-war years has been that the 40-
hour week does not produce enough
in goods and services to meet the com-
munity’s needs.
The individual worker, finding that his
income will not make ends meet, looks
for other means to supplement it, either
in his trade outside the boss’s time or
by taking on some additional, part-time
occupation. The result is that the ext*
leisure for which trade-unions fought so
strenuously simply does not exist in
practice—many workers have far less
leisure than before the war.—D. J. (Vic.).
P.M.G. Revenue
That critical constant telephone-
user who complained (B. 23/5/’56) that
profits made by phones were used to
defray losses by posts and telegraphs
might as reasonably have asked for a cut
in the price of his railway-ticket becausfc
of losses in the carriage of goods. Where
possible, public utilities are administered
to balance themselves, but, this ideal
rarely being achieved, profits earned by
one section naturally are used to reduce
deficits in another. Anyway, this bloke
who thinks (probably with some justifica-
tion) that his phone costs too much may
console himself from the knowledge that
P.M.G. revenues as a whole not only
balance but go a long way towards sus-
taining non-productive services such as
pensions.— Postscript (N.S.W.).
The British Commonwealth
Writing in London “Times,” Mr.
Menzies referred to an early and pro-
bably the first official use of the term
“British Commonwealth of Nations” —
in the Balfour formula of 1926.
I first heard the suggestion that “Com-
monwealth” might be substituted for
“Empire” in a Regular Army officers’
mess at Aldershot in 1919. During an
informal discussion on the correct way to
describe a union of self-governing
Dominions, the colonel turned to me
and said, “What a grand name you have
for your country—‘the Commonwealth
of Australia.’ ‘Commonwealth,’ that’s
the word we should use. It says just
what it means, and has the merit of
being a good old English word.”
The discussion had hinged on a search
for the right word, and there was no
thought of scrapping the name “Empire”
as a sop to have-not nations, or other
people whom Kipling described as “the
lesser breeds without the law.” The
general idea at the time was that the
self-governing Dominions had progressed
far enough to be admitted to partnership
in the firm of John Bull and Sons. —
Pip Tok (W.A.).
Bush Pubs
I spend a lot of time travelling round
sparsely settled districts of N. S. Wales
and see a lot of smalltown pubs.
Too many bricks have been flung at
these rural hostels. I have always found
the publicans courteous and helpful, and,
if their main interest is the bar, because
booze pays better than board and lodg-
ings, the latter are rarely neglected.
Staff is a perpetual worry, and a lot of
work falls on proprietors and their wives.
Girls do not readily take permanent jobs
in smalltown pubs, but I have found
those who do more pleasant and better-
mannered than their sisters in city hotels.
Part-time barmen and barmaids are
apparently not so hard to get.
Sometimes one finds an ancient rouse-
about, relic of former days and repository
of a vast store of local history and legend
which only stern measures will prevent
him from recounting.
Prices in these bush pubs are high, but
not exorbitant.
On the N.S.W. western slopes I stayed
at a place run by an old-timer and his
wife where the tariff for dinner, bed and
breakfast was 245. The pub was a model
of cleanliness; it had hot water and
chrome-plated beds with inner-spring
mattresses ; and meals were entirely satis-
factory. It was mighty good value, with
kind and friendly folk to deal with into
the bargain.
I almost forgot to mention the beer,
but somehow it always tastes good. I like
these little bush pubs.— Woorarra
(N.S.W.).


"The Farmers* Boy"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR.” .
Both Plough, Scythe, Mow, Culti-
vate, Rotary Hoe, etc.
The attachment
shows the latter \
on the “SERIES]
II.”
The “MAJOR”
has a 17 in.
Rotary Hoe.
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
free demonstrations of the Tractor
and accessories that interest you.
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty.
Ltd., 32 Whiting St., Artarmon.
JP 4396. Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 178-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LANI): Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264. W.A.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
32 Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4396.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TOBACCO AND PROTECTION
nrHE proportion of Australian
•*- leaf it will be necessary for
manufacturers to include in
manufactured tobacco and
cigarettes has been increased
from 7 per cent, in cigarettes and
17 per cent, in tobacco to 12 \ per
cent, and 21 per cent, respec-
tively.
By using these percentages of
Australian leaf in their products,
manufacturers become entitled to
a 20 per cent, reduction in the
duty payable on leaf they import.
There has also been a cut of
approximately 20 per cent, in
import-licences for tobacco.
The background to these
changes is the difficulty of selling
the North Queensland tobacco-
crop, and the Federal Govern-
ment’s policy of saving dollars
by expanding the industry. The
adjustments implement that
policy, and growers think this is
the most important step towards
stabilisation of their market for
some 30 years.
Two-thirds of the Australian
tobacco-crop is grown in Queens-
land. Most of this crop, and by
far the best-quality leaf, comes
from north of Rockhampton.
Since the war there has been an
extraordinary increase in the
area under tobacco. The annual
production of Queensland now
exceeds that of the whole of
Australia in pre-war years.
One of the earliest crops grown
in Australia, tobacco has never
enjoyed any long period of pros-
perity. The history of the
industry has been one of boom
and slump—there has never been
an assured market. Tobacco-
growing calls for a high degree
of technical skill and great appli-
cation, and for several reasons is
a hazardous branch of agri-
culture.
There was a mild tobacco-
boom in the late 1920’s and early
’thirties, but the policy of the
Scullin Government in regard to
protection wrote finish to this
and ruined many growers.
Tobacco-growing remained in the
doldrums until the lack of
imported leaf and the value of
tobacco as a sustainer of morale
brought Government support
during the war-years.
A system of Government
appraisal and sale on valuation
was instituted. This led to a
stable price for a time, but soon
the growers became dissatisfied
as production-costs rose and the
advent of many small manufac-
turers increased competition for
leaf.
Soon after the end of the war
growers refused to sell at the
appraised values. Sales stopped
Until approximately
ten years ago stock
owners could not
evade carrying out the
job o£ marking and
tailing lambs and
marking calves in a
disagreeable and ob-
jectionable manner.
But with the advent
of rubber rings the
most disgusting
aspects of the work
have been eliminated
—as has also much of
the risk of fly-strike,
set-back, loss of condi-
tion. Indeed, after
four years’ experience
with “Elastrator” Rub-
ber Rings, one user
writes—“I have had
100 per cent, success
and under no circum-
stances will I now use
any other method of
castrating and tailing
lambs.” Another
states—“There are no
wounds to dress... It
is cleaner and quicker
than the knife.”
until an auction-system was
introduced by a growers’ co-
operative, acting as brokers
under a State Government-
sponsored Tobacco Leaf
Marketing Board.
At that time many small buyers
were competing for leaf, parti-
cularly for the lower grades, and
there was an immediate and
spectacular rise in prices. The
growers’ co-operative entered the
manufacturing field, and the
expansion of the industry began.
This was stimulated by the
Queensland Government making
tobacco the basis of the first
stage of the Burdekin Valley
scheme of irrigation and soldier-
settlement.
But there was no stability in
the market, and prices fluctuated
wildly. The smaller factories,
which had mushroomed during
the tobacco-shortage, began to
disappear, and competition again
centred in a few big manufac-
turers. The fluctuation in prices
from season to season served to
maintain the expansion of the
industry. New growers were
attracted by high prices one
season, and were tied by losses
in the following season.
There has been a general
decline in the demand for darker
and heavier grades of leaf, as a
result of the changing habits of
smokers, from pipes and roll-
your-own cigarettes to “tailor-
mades.” A glance at some of
the salients of the last few years
gives a picture of what led up to
the Government action.
The 1949-50 year was one of
full clearances and high prices ;
during 1950-51 North Queens-
land crops were greatly reduced
by bad seasons, and continued
high prices and good clearance
didn’t save many growers from
heavy losses.
The following two years were
disastrqjus for many growers.
Arsenate-of-lead was still relied
on to reduce looper-caterpillar
infestations, and this was mixed
with D.D.T.-sprays. Infestation
reached plague proportions, and,
because of heavy spraying, health
authorities condemned 282 tons
out of one year’s offering of
2740 tons. Of the remaining
2458 tons, 269 tons failed to
attract satisfactory bids.
The decline in demand carried
on to the following season, and
unsold leaf was the subject of
continual conferences between
the Marketing Board, buyers and
Government departments. Argu-
ment centred on value for
quality and what constituted
saleable leaf. Finally, a small
quantity was condemned by an
arbitrator, and some regrading
done, but a great quantity of
leaf remained unsold and had to
be destroyed.
The 1953-54 crop attracted
competition, and prices rose. In
1954-55 early sales saw a great
rise in prices, and good clear-
ances were made. Competition
declined in later sales. Clearance
at the first sale was 96\ per cent.,
at an average price of 182 d. The
last offering wasn’t sold, and
average price paid for leaf
dropped by 35d. per lb. (to
147 d.).
That was the position when
this season’s sales opened for the
largest and best-quality crop ever
produced in North Queensland.
It was plain from the first day
that competition was poor.
Prices dropped considerably from
last year’s level, and clearances
were unsatisfactory. The sales
were called off on the second
day of the third sale, when clear-
ance was only 80 per cent, for an
average price of 153 d.
The Marketing Board
negotiated for an assurance of a
95 per cent, clearance at an
average price of 137£d. (reserves
to be placed on the different
grades to bring this average). No
settlement was reached, and the
matter was placed before the
Federal Government.
The definite statement of Gov-
ernment policy, cuts in imports,
and increased quotas for Aus-
tralian leaf, have been sufficient
encouragement to make the
board reopen sales without any
agreement with buyers, but plac-
ing their own reserve on grades,
to give an overall average of
137£d.
Several problems in the pro-
duction and marketing of
tobacco are peculiar to the
industry. One is that the market
is limited to a few large manu-
facturers ; another is the varia-
tion in the quality of the crop
from season to season, which
approximates the variations in
the grape-industry. As it is the
general custom for manufacturers
to buy forward and hold large
stocks, and the finished product
is a blend of many types and
various qualities, growers con-
sider it should be easy to use all
seasons’ production and maintain
an average minimum price that
would cover the costs of produc-
tion. The small percentage of
home-grown leaf used should
make this an easy matter.
The Australian smoker need
have no fear that the steps taken
to protect the local grower will
affect the price or quality of his
smokes. Australia produces less
than 20 per cent, of its tobacco-
requirements, and when Customs-
duty is added imported tobacco
is more expensive than Aus-
tralian tobacco. The difference
between the average price asked
by Queensland growers and the
cost, including duly, of imported
leaf, ranges from 3id. to 35d.
per lb.
Mr. S. Short, chairman of the
Queensland Tobacco Leaf
Marketing Board, has said that
he feels more confidence in the
future of the tobacco-industry
than at any other time in his 30
years’ experience. The industry
is already saving something in
the vicinity of £4-million-worth
of imports annually.
Les Freeland.
A Word to Exhibitors
Exhibitors of cattle at the next
Brisbane Show who intend to sell
some of their stock there might
seriously consider inoculating
them even if they come from
“clean” (i.e., tick-free) country.
That way, it’s better for both
buyer and seller.
Most of Queensland’s cattle-
country is tick-infested, and no
cattleman would bring clean
cattle into tick-country without
inoculation.
If the cattle haven’t been
inoculated before sale the buyer
has to put his purchases in one
of the Animal Health stations,
with all the unsatisfactory and
costly consequences. Cost of
keep has become a big item at
these places ; add to this the long
period of incarceration, and you
have second-thoughts restraining
a buyer from making a bid for
a nice beast.
I use the word “unsatisfactory”
with no thought of criticising the
staff at A.H. stations: I’m con-
fident they are all men who know
their jobs. But a beast’s reaction
to unfamiliar surroundings is
something to be taken into con-
sideration. Then, too, one can’t
altogether get away from the
feeling that the beast is in close
contact with stock undergoing
"This whisky's got a bite in it, Stan — it's goin'
right t' me legs."
treatment for sickness of some
kind, and, with all the care in the
world, one never knows . . .
Most owners feel happier with a
valuable animal well away from
such places.
But the first consideration is
quite enough to stop many bids.
Cattle fret easily, and my experi-
ence is that even if they are
merely changed from one
paddock to another on their
home-run they are upset. Fret-
ting, while running a fever from
inoculation, might do more harm
than we can now assess. So I
suggest that cattle for sale should
be inoculated on their home
pastures, where they’ll be reason-
ably happy. They’ll recover from
the needle with no setbacks, and
buyers will take more interest in
them.
1 personally know one or two
studs in clean country which
offered uninoculated cattle at last
year’s Brisbane Show, and were
disappointed at the prices. I
wasn’t surprised,
Richard H. Anning.
Spray-shearing
“The Ringer”: The current
year has been a mixed one for
sheepmen. Apart from an
abnormal season which has
brought worm-infestations and
foot-troubles further to the west
of New South Wales than ever
before, the grazier has had to
contend with shearing difficulties.
At the same time, though, he has
had the fact that two new shear-
ing-machines are now on the
market which, so long as he is
healthy, make him independent
of shearers. And now Mr. B. O.
Elsley says we don’t even have
to shear ’em. He’ll take the
wool off by spraying!
Well, it’s an old dream ; one
which (in their usual fashion)
the Russians some years ago
claimed they had brought to
finality and reality. Since then
nothing more has been heard of
the claims. It is generally
thought the sheep died. After
all, thallium is lethal even if it
removes the hair —or wool.
But Mr. Elsley assures us he
can take the wool off sheep by
one strip down the back with
his preparation from an ordinary
jetting-plant, and that the opera-
tion does not hurt the sheep,
affect the fleece, or hinder future
wool-growth.
So far the scientific blokes
haven’t shown any signs of over-
excitement at these claims.
To start with, it is only nine
weeks ago that Mr. Elsley and
his partner, Mr. E. G. Hall,
sprayed their first sheep, and,
although they say the wool is
growing again, it will take a
longer time than this to convince
the sceptics.
This much we do know —Mr.
Elsley is sincere in his claims.
Now of Belmore, Yelarbon (Q.),
he is 71, a breeder of good sheep
and cattle, and a lover of Clydes-
dale horses. He will spray the
5000 sheep on his property with
his solution, doing them in mobs
of 500. That is really putting
your beliefs to the test.
One thing is sure. If he can
convince sheepmen that his pre-
paration causes a “fever” at the
level of the skin, bringing about
a “break” in the wool without
damaging the rest of the fibre or
retarding or destroying future
wool-growth, the sheepgrowing
world will beat a path to his
door.
The machine for removing the
fleece from the sheep is simple.
It consists of two rubber bars
with stiff rubber fingers. These
are mounted on a frame through
which the sheep passes. The
frame —being on springs—
roughly conforms in shape to the
size of the sheep going through
it.
Not only the shearers will be
watching with interest; so will
the inventors of the two shear-
ing-tables displayed at the
Sydney Sheep Show—Mr. Borth-
wick, from Quilpie (Q.), and Mr.
E. Frecklington, of Dalmally
Station., Roma (Q.).
Incidentally, it is interesting
to note that these three men, all
now Queenslanders, migrated
from N.S.W. Frecklington,
from the central-west, Elsley
from Gunnedah, and Borthwick
from Tamworth.
Copper Balance
“Grambo”: Reports of
copper-deficiency of sheep in
hitherto healthy areas of south-
east South Australia emphasise
the need for a careful watch for
steely wool and unthriftiness
(symptoms of the trouble) in all
sandy coastal areas.
Easiest control is to topdress
with 71b. of bluestone (copper-
sulphate) an acre, making sure
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and gqessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to ‘'The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


WOWMM
PTY. LTD.
PTY
mm ' m m ■
" 5 Jm M n
COLUMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
m
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
1
m
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX2515
Agents throughout Australia.
Rill in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
n
/
NAME
ADDRESS
ms
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing— see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Read.
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \{ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable front all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
that the salt is washed into the
soil before sheep can eat too
much of it and get copper-
poisoning. The 71b. an acre
(which should last 10 years) can
be mixed with the super.
Another method is to put
enough bluestone fn a lick to
give each 200 sheep loz. of
copper a week between them.
This way is not so satisfactory,
because some sheep might not
eat as much lick as they peed,
others might eat more than is
good for them, and the intake of
lick varies during a season. If
you use this method, replenish
the lick weekly (when this is
possible), and make sure that the
trough is protected from the
weather.
The Sheep's Face
“Geep”: J. E. Coop, of
Lincoln College (N.Z.), has
reported on the significance of
face-cover in Corriedale and
Romney-Corriedale cross sheep.
To the man not on the land,
and perhaps to some pastoralists,
it must seem strange that there
is any connection at all between
face-cover and fertility; yet
careful experiments indicate that
such is the case.
The N.Z. investigation showed
that, compared with covered-
faced ewes, open-faced ewes had
3 per cent, fewer barren ewes,
12 per cent, more lambs born
per ewe-lambing, 2 per cent,
lower lamb-mortality, 3lb. higher
lamb-weaning weight, 23 per
cent, higher total lamb-produc-
tion, and 61b. higher bodyweight.
Only in wool-production did the
covered-faced animal excel; its
clip exceeded the open-faced by
0.31 b.
Similar conclusions have been
reached at other N.Z. research-
stations and by investigators in
U.S.A. working on Rambouil-
lets.
The fundamental reasons for
these face-cover effects have so
far eluded the researchers. It is
suggested that covered-faced
animals, suffering from a limited
vision in the weeks or months
prior to wigging and shearing,
may therefore have a restricted
feed-intake which could reduce
lamb-production. But this could
hardly increase wool-yield.
Another theory is that the
reduced amount of light reaching
the eye of covered-faced sheep,
or even the sudden increase in
light received after eye-wigging,
could possibly cause a simultane-
ous decrease in reproductive rate
and increase in wool-growth. But
this is only surmise.
Coop leans towards a genetic,
rather than an environmental,
explanation. Because of the high
heritability of face-cover, he
recommends culling covered-
faced animals by selective breed-
ing from open-faced varieties.
Clean Honey
“Drone B.”: Bee-laden honey
may be edible and tasty (“B-
herd,” B. 23/5/’56); so is a loaf
of bread containing the string
from the flourbag, but how many
customers will tolerate it?
Wax is certainly not injurious
in honey, but what sort of
appearance does it present to the
customer? I know of several
instances of purchasers having to
remove a fair thickness of scum
containing air-bubbles, wax,
pollen and an occasional bee’s
leg. The honey went down the
sink and the jam-makers
acquired a few more customers.
It may have been packer’s fault,
but in these cases the packer was
the producer.
In other cases honey has been
consigned in old tins which may
have been clean inside, but no
one having seen the outside of
the tin would bother to open it
before sending it back. I have
a couple of samples of honey on
my table, and I wouldn’t blame
anyone for mistaking them for
liquid boot-polish. The
diagnosis? Grey-box, packed in
old tins. Yes, it’s quite edible,
but its customer-appeal is nil.
It only needs a few tins of this
in a batch and the packer has
a problem on his hands.
“B-herd” says that wax and
wood are the only debris possible
in honey. Another specimen in
my “museum” contains about
|in. of sediment, mainly dust
with a few pebbles. At the top
are wax particles, bits, of bees
and other material on which I
wouldn’t even hazard a guess.
This represented 15-20 tins in a
consignment.
As far as the S.A. case is con-
cerned, Eh G. Wiedenhofer
backed-up his remarks with
samples which should have been
put down the drain. Incidentally,
the A.H.P. plant is as up-to-date
as any I’ve seen and a good deal
better than many.
As for bees diving into the
settling-tank, surely “B-herd”
must agree that this trouble may
be almost completely eliminated
by the simple expedient of cover-
ing the tank. Straining the
honey from the extractor into a
properly covered tank will yield
a beeless product.
The five-hive backyarders
have been done an injustice.
Most of these people do their
extracting in the kitchen, where
the kettle keeps the carving-knife
hot for uncapping, and where
Mum raises hell over the bits
which drop on her clean floor
a floor far cleaner than any I’ve
seen in a mobile extracting-plant.
The honey is generally put-up in
large jars and stored for home-
use, and never reaches the
packer’s floor.
Myxomatosis
“Graz”: J. M. Rendel, officer-
in-charge of the animal-genetics
section of C.5.1.R.0., has
warned property-owners that
rabbits are building-up resistance
to myxomatosis: “The Aus-
tralian rabbit is rapidly approach-
ing the state where it will throw
off myxomatosis as a mild
disease. By then we shall be back
where we were in 1951.”
Just how long before that
happens the scientist hesitated to
say, but he thinks that, taking
Australia as a whole, within the
next five to 10 years 50 per cent,
of infected rabits will recover
and be able to breed.
My own control-methods:
Liberate myxo.-injected rabbits in
summer ; then, in June, July and
August, do everything possible —
trapping, dogging, and digging-
out, etc. —to destroy myxo.-
resistant rabbits.
If all landholders would use
similar control-measures we
should be able to string-out the
benefits of myxo. for several
years longer.
Milking-machines
“Agricola”: The Queensland
Dairymen’s Organisation has
bought a number of airflow-
meters and vacuum-recorders to
test the efficiency of milking-
machines.
This efficiency had been
more-or-less neglected until
Petersen, in America, pointed-
out the advantages of a sound
milking-procedure. Milk fast
and don’t strip by hand is the
essence of his advice; and, to
do that, machines must be in
first-class order.
More than 400 milking-plants
have already been tested 80
per cent, of them faulty and
needing attention. In some
instances, major adjustments
and replacements are indicated.
The loss in production and milk-
ing-time must be considerable.
Pulsators incorrectly set, air-
leaks, faulty vacuum-gauges and
relief-valves, worn pumps
these are only some of the
defects found.
More attention will have to
be paid to machines in future.
A loss of 15 minutes milking-
time and one gallon of milk
each day does not sound much,
but it amounts to more than 91
hours working-time and 365
gallons of milk each year.
With costs rising daily, no
farmer can afford that loss.
Brian Pastures
“Deecee”: First details of
trials at the Brian Pastures
experiment-station, near Gayn-
dah (Q.), were release# at the
official opening by chairman of
the Australian Meat Board J. L.
Shute. Brian Pastures, launched
four years ago with the object
of increasing beef-production,
was established by the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, the Queens-
land Government and the
C.5.1.R.0., and to date has cost
about £lOO,OOO. The station was
stocked 12 months ago, and the
first cattle have now been turned-
off.
The liveweight-gain of cattle
grazed on sown-pastures aver-
aged 1171 b., compared with only
361 b. by those fed on native-
grasses. The average carcass-
weight of 15 animals fed on
sown-pastures was 6331 b., dress-
ing 58.4 per cent., and all the
carcasses received superior grad-
ings. In contrast, animals of the
same age grazed on native-
pastures were not yet ready for
slaughter.
Farm Hints
“W.C.Q.”: Ringbarking trees
in winter cuts off much of the
sap in the butt and roots leading
to a quick die-off of the top but
a strong sucker-growth at the
base. Poisoning is effective in
winter, as the poison mixes with
the sap and generally destroys
the root-system. Some scrub or
rain-forest trees, including figs,
are resistant to poisons, but they
often decline of their own accord
after the brush has been cleared
away and they are denied shelter.
“W. Court”: Greening spuds
before planting is safer than put-
ting them in and hoping there
won’t be a lot of rain. Lay the
seed out in one layer on damp
ground in a shed or under a tree,
sprinkle with sulphur or some
mildew deterrent, and cover with
damp grass or bags. Few will
rot.
“Wilco”: Tecomas make
excellent hedges in warm
districts and grow much faster
than most flowering shrubs.
They grow quickly from seed,
which can be taken from the
shrubs in autumn, after flower-
ing. Sow in early spring where
the shrubs are to grow ; any soil
is suitable, but they need plenty
of sun. Capensis is scarlet and
Velutina yellow. Both will grow
to 12ft., but flower better if kept
clipped-down.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/6/’56)
Recent sunspot-activity has led to gales and rain in the
southern section of the continent, and, as this activity
is persisting, further heavy rains and gales may occur in the
southern States during the first half of July.
There may be general rain in a large part of Queens-
land during July—light to moderate on the Coast and light
in the Peninsula and part of the north-west.
N. S. Wales should receive general rains, above average,
during July, with the heaviest falls in the central-west and
n.-w. slopes and plains. These may lead to renewed flooding.
The general rains indicated during July for Tasmania,
Victoria and the agricultural areas of S.A. and W.A. may
be intensified as a result of the sunspot-activity.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/6 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN GEORGE BELL late of Fre-
mantle Western Australia Seaman. —
TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS IRENE BELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 298
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for 3 years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 24th of August 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON & MC-
DONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; or JOHN CORCORAN & CO-.
Solicitors, of 2 York Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Thirty Ton
By
Kain
Menanra
THAT night, as always,
the hamburger-stand had
its front and sides thrown
open to the highway.
It sat, wasteland on either
side, on old, iron wheels, but
no one had ever seen it move
and the wheels were thick with
rust. At both ends of the wooden
counter were grouped big, glass
bottles filled with bullseyes,
striped sticks and a variety of
colored balls. The urn stood
in one corner, steam frosting its
silver exterior.
A celluloid-covered poster on
the wall advertised a brand of
A.P.C. and an artificially beauti-
ful girl in a white swimsuit
leaned forward to show the
essentials and advise the spec-
tator to use this brand for head-
ache and pain; she looked as
though she had never had a
headache or pain in her life-
time.
The white-haired woman
behind the counter picked up a
spatula with a clean rag wrapped
around its handle and dumped
a ball of minced-meat on the
hot-plate next to the urn. She
pushed the meat down, flat and
round, and her eyes blinked
against the vicious, spitting
grease that bulleted up at them.
She put some onions on top of
that while she listened to the
small, red radio speak the news.
When the news was finished, she
wiped one hand down her apron,
down her thigh, and tapped her
foot thoughtfully to the quiet
music.
A man and his dog came out
of the darkness, emerging sud-
denly into the semicircle of
light that plunged from the
stand to the footpath. The man
sat on a wooden stool at the
counter and unbuttoned his
thick, navy-blue overcoat. The
dog sprawled on the ground.
“It’s warmer here,” the man
said, rubbing his knuckles.
“Always seems to be near
food.”
“You’re late tonight,” said the
woman. “All of two minutes late.
Can’t have that.”
He laughed.
“I’ll put the egg on now,” she
said, and cracked the egg, letting
it slide on to the hot-plate. It
began to congeal almost
immediately.
The man’s head turned and
looked up the blackened highway
at the approaching lights of a
truck. It had to be a truck ; he
could feel the air vibrate even
from here. Big truck. As he
watched, his face was white
on the lighted side, black on the
highway side, as if someone had
cut his head in two. Then,
slowly, the lights of the truck
slid up the roadway and on to
his thin face, the corner of the
arc of illumination catching his
wire hair and long straight nose.
TTE blinked.
The truck stopped, motor
chuckling, then the motor cut,
the big lights snapped off, leaving
only the two small parking-
lights burning like cigarette-ends
in the darkness. The truck-door
slammed shockingly and foot-
steps thudded on the pavement.
The truck-driver walked like a
heavy man, but wasn’t particu-
larly heavy, looked like he
should be fat, but wasn’t fat. He
wore khaki overalls and a fleece-
lined leather lumber-jacket with
the fleece dyed black and the
collar turned up around his neck.
“Coupla hamburgers,” he said,
sitting heavily on a stool.
“Cuppa coffee.”
With his finger he pushed back
his hat, which smelled slightly of
diesel oil, and his eyes came into
view, the pupils closing in the
light.
The woman handed the thin
man his hamburger-and-egg
wrapped in a piece of waxed
paper. She put the teacup down
and the mist came up and
warmed the man’s face.
“On a plate f’r me,” said the
driver, “ ’n’ a saucer.”
“If I’ve got one.” But she
had one, all right.
The truckie ran the zipper
down his jacket and turned down
the collar. “Warmer here.”
He looked from the man to the
woman and back and forth.
The thin man saw how badly
he wanted to talk and said,
“That’s a big truck you’ve got
there.”
“Thirty-ton truck.” He
looked across.
“Heard it coming a mile off.
Sounded like thunder or some-
thing. It sounded damn’ heavy.”
The driver shifted his jaw
before every remark he made, as
if he were getting his tongue and
mouth into the correct gear, the
correct tone. He did this now,
but before he could speak he
felt something cold and wet on
his hand. He jerked his fingers
away and the thin man saw
they were trembling. So was his
voice.
“What’s that?”
“That’s my dog. He won’t
hurt you.”
“Damn’ right he won't 1”
“C’mere, boy, c’mere.” The
dog came back to the thin man
and stood near him, ears back. ■
The stove sizzled.
“Sorry,” said the driver.
“Forget it.”
“Okay. It’s only a dog.”
A KID of eighteen suddenly
walked out of the night,
gave his order, and sat down.
He looked like a really hard
kid hatchet-face, dark,
thoughtful.
“Funny thing happened to me
earlier,” said the driver to the
thin man. “Reckon that’s why
the dog got me.”
The thin man chewed his
hamburger and egg. The driver
waited, then said “Helluva thing
to happen. Made me sad.”
Still he waited, and finally the
thin man said, “What?”
His jaw shifted into gear as
the other wiped onion off his
lips with a motion like a wind-
shield wiper.
“Driving a big truck like that
gets on your nerves,” said the
driver. “Thirty-ton of it. Feels
like a loaded gun. Trouble is,
you get to thinking about one
thing all the time if y're not care-
ful. All sorts of crazy things,
only you get stuck with one. Like
thinking about the diesel being a
gun. And once the idea hites in
it won’t let go.”
“Yeah.”
The kid glanced across at him.
“Start thinking you’re a big
strong man,” said the driver, and.
swallowed with a suddenly open-
faced look.
He saw the kid smile.
“Driving is a hard job. Most
people won’t believe that. It’s
true. One thing that gives you a
lot of trouble. Dogs. Most
dogs are okay. They’re tame,
sort of. It’s the cattledogs and
sheepdogs and those tough
mongrels that cause all the
strife. .Snapping at the wheels all
the time. Making that goddamn’
racket. Like they hate you. Well,
it’s mutual. You can get to work-
up a fine hatred on the road.
It’s just the same’s being alone.
All day. And night. Night’s the
worst.”
“Nights like this, huh?”
“Yeah.”
“What happened, anyway?
You was gonna tell us.”
He put his hand heavily on
the counter. “You’d laugh.”
They both looked at him. “He’s
laughing already.” He jerked
his thumb.
The kid’s eyebrows went up,
but he didn’t say anything.
It was suddenly unnaturally
quiet. The truck-driver looked
down at the counter, then, as
though he had to break the
accusing silence, he began to
talk quickly.
“Was driving along ; big, wide
highway, smooth-running, when
I saw this dog up ahead. It was
only a small dog and it was way
the hell up the roadway. I could
tell right away from its stance it
was gonna go the truck.
“The dog was running away
from this kid. About twelve
years old. Could tell by the way
she run after the dog. On her
toes and throwing her head
around.
“I slowed her down a bit, the
truck, and waited. Felt funny.
God, I hated that dog all of a
sudden. I turned”
OUDDENLY he looked at his
hand, turned it over, looked
at the palm, as though he were
reading his own fortune there.
Inside the knuckles were white
and hard and shiny from grip-
ping a steering-wheel.
“The dog came on at the
truck. It went in front, then
back and forth, back and forth,
and turned its mongrel head back
over its body to snap at the big
double-tyres. Growling, snarling
and all that.”
He closed his hand into a fist,
and the fist grew tighter each
minute as he talked.
“I was swearing at the dog,
I remember. Felt like I weighed
thirty-ton. Had a tractor on the
semi and I even weighed like the
tractor. Still got it on.
“Anyhow, I turned that wheel
a real little bit and I gunned
her, gunned that motor, and I
could feel my teeth bite into
my bottom lip and then the dog
swung over a little bit more and
so did I. And I hit that dog
square.”
His teeth were over his lip now
and his eyes were almost closed.
The left side of his face twitched.
“Heard her crack like a
melon. Thirty-ton.”
He sighed and his body
trembled.
“I couldn’t figure out whether
I done it on purpose. The more
I thought about it —after —the
more messed up I got. Kept
remembering the big double-
tyres going over the dog. All
those tyres went over that dog.
There wasn’t even a bump on
any of those tyres. Didn’t make
a sound.”
The white-haired woman had
put the hamburgers in front of
him. He didn’t look down at the
plate.
“I didn’t want to stop. Knew
I should get out of there fast.
But next thing I know is all
I can see is the face of the kid
in front of the windscreen. She
was shaking with anger. Looked
like she hated me. Crying.
Heard someone yell at me.
Seems I stopped the truck and
got out.”
“Seems?”
“I must’ve. When I think of
it all I get is—red. Just the color
red. A red wall.”
He slowly unclenched a
sweaty fist.
“Tell the truth, I should be
the hell up the bush now, but I’ve
been driving around. Truck
went over that dog like a steam-
roller. Like a tank. Useta drive
a tank in the army.”
The white - haired woman
reached over and turned the
radio up a little. The sound
seemed to break the steady gaze
of the thin man and the thought-
ful stare of the eighteen-year-old.
“I never seen anything like
that,” said the thin man.
“It’s something to see.” The
driver ran the back of his hand
under his nose, then picked up
the knife, the fork. “That
thirty-ton,” he whispered to
himself.
His cheeks bulged as he
worked on the hamburgers and
his eyes stared round at the three
of them again and again and
only the woman looked directly
at him now.
“The news will be on in a
minute,” she said. “Heard the
news tonight?”
“No, I didn’t,” said the thin
man.
The kid was gone.
“What happened to him?”
“He walked off,” said the
driver. “He went.”
At the tone he used, the
woman said “What's wrong
now?”
“A man’s all mixed up.
Driving all the time a man gets
to see the same things over and
over. He gets to know every
bump in the highway and don’t
expect any changes, so when
there’s a change a man gets
mixed up.”
He looked blankly at her;
she could see her twin images
reflected in his eyes.
AS the radio-announcer began
to read the news, the kid
came back.
The woman’s brown hand
gently turned the knob. The
noise hit all four, but the driver
the hardest. He stopped chewing
and put down his knife and fork
add pressed his hands hard
against the counter-top as the
news-reader told about Red
China and Big Four Meeting and
Adjustment in the Basic Wage
and Death of Girl on Highway.
Girl hit by big truck. Eleven
years old. Tractor on back of
truck. Police looking.
“I heard it before,” said the
hard kid. “That’s why I just
went and put this character’s
truck outa commission.”
One side of the driver’s face
let him down. He couldn’t
control it. It dollapsed. It just
hung there and was getting
worse, like melting wax.
He stood up. So did the thin
man. So did the hard kid.
“What d’ya think about it?” he
asked suddenly. “What’s the
verdict?”
They looked at one another.
“The dog. I did hit a dog, no
matter what you say. No matter
what the radio says.” The
corners of his mouth came down.
“Should’ve I hit that dog? Eh?
Should’ve I?”
“I think you’re crazy,” the
kid said. “Sit down.”
He sat down. “If I hadn’t’ve
tried to hit that dog, I wouldn’t’ve
hit that kid. But I hit the kid by
accident. Hit the dog on pur-
pose. Don’t you understand?
The kid was an accident —but I
murdered the dog!”
“Cut the screaming,” said the
kid. He looked at the woman.
“There’s a telephone just down
the road,” he said.
“I’ll go.” She snatched off her
apron, came round the counter
and her heel-clicks died into
the night.
“All I want is a verdict,” said
the driver. “Suppose I get hung
for the kid. I still don’t have
a verdict on the dog. What d’ya
think of me about the dog?
Tell me.”
“You just sit there,” said the
thin man.
“You bastards. You make me
sick. You hate me, don’t you?
Because of the way I felt when
1 hit the dog. Not because of
the kid. The kid was an
accident.”
There was nothing they
could say.
“She had blood alt over her,”
said the driver suddenly, and
began to cry. ‘‘God!” He
smashed his fist to the counter
so that saucers rattled. ‘‘Why?”
“You better calm down.”
“Calm down,” he echoed. He
wiped his eyes on his sleeve.
He zipped up his leather jacket.
He pulled down his hat. Then
he saw the hamburger on the
plate in front of him. He felt the
thin man’s dog snuffling at his
trouser-leg, and the animal
whined softly, imploringly,
barked once. The driver picked
up the hamburger.
He gave the dog the ham-
burger, holding it for the dog
while it ate.
ROSE-GUM BLOSSOM
UNFURLING
Here’s time to see,
hour by hour,
the widening rift,
the cavity
where life and dark both must
lift
out of the depth the flower.
But each denies
swjft releasie
to ravelled meaning
and groping cell,
crying: “Stay,
be whole in us still,
you brilliance seeking
the twofold day.
Time and light
both can wait.”
Minute by minute
and ray by ray
strike where the bud
has an arc to sever.
Thread by thread
the stamens move,
unfurling toward
their thrust of love:
the golden anther,
the plunging grain.
Now the bud is broken
and time goes in.
Here’s light to see,
day by day,
what must be given
taken away.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


Available from all booksellers
TENDER VICTORY
by TAYLOR CALDWELL 20/-
When Johnny Fletcher, a young minister, and his family of five orphaned
refugee children enter Barryfield the community will not accept them. It
takes a common disaster to overcome public fear and mistrust.
COLLINS—PUBLISHERS
BOOK SOCIETY CHOICE
GALLIPOLI
by Alan Moorehead
“I have read Mr. Moorehead’s account of the Gallipoli campaign Avitli much interest.
The historical consequences of this operation could have been of the greatest
magnitude, and Mr. Moorehead is much to be congratulated on the skilful, objective
and most readable way in which he has presented the story.” (Winston S.
Churchill.) 26/- (post 1/1)
You’ll find these and all the hooks you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
with the result that, in the end, you
feel that you have been (to use a
colloquialism oneself) led up the
garden-path. The heroine of “The
Honey Flow,” being the practically
anonymous “I”—a script-writer for the
radio who goes off with the travelling
beekeepers—is much pleasanter com-
pany than the little frumps of some
of the earlier novels; but to the extent
that the book depends on her warding-
off the advances of the enterprising
Blaze for its central theme, it lacks
interest. The wedding-bells at the end
of the traditional romance are, perhaps,
a formal as well as a sentimental
necessity.
What Kylie Tennant really wants to
do in this novel is, simply, to describe
the life of the travelling beekeepers—
and a fascinating piece of Australian
life it is. A “Red Page” critic some
years ago, apropos of an earlier
Kylie Tennant novel, suggested to the
present commentator that basically
the motive of all her novels was
documentary and that she would do
better to write straightforward descrip-
tive books.
Perhaps he was right. Certainly if
the present novel were a straight-
forward documentary the beekeeping
parts of it could be more clearly and
quietly explained, the mountain
scenery could be re-created in the fine
prose Kylie Tennant is perfectly capable
of writing, and the placenames in New
South Wales and Queensland need not
be concealed in their present thin and
faintly irritating disguise. A straight-
forward book about life with the bee-
keepers could be a beautiful thing; and,
after all, the novel is not the only form
in which prose of lasting value may be
written. Stevenson’s “Travels with a
Donkey,” which is plain fact, is not
less a creative and beautiful work of
art than is “The Master of Ballantrae,”
which is fiction. In fact, the travel-
book must be valued far higher.
But the difficulty here—and no
doubt Kylie Tennant has pondered it
—is that while you could describe the
craft of beekeeping very well in a
documentary book, it would not be so
easy to bring in the full living reality
of the beekeepers. Both courtesy and
the laws of libel make it extremely diffi-
cult to tell all the intriguing things one
learns about living people, except by
inventing characters in fiction. And
people matter more to Kylie Tennant
than do bees. It is a problem only to
be solved by the author.
In the meantime one must take the
book as one finds it: muddled and over-
long; not fully satisfactory either as a
novel or a documentary, yet still enjoy-
able as the one and most interesting as
the other: a great chunk of superb
mountain country, filled with bees,
gum-blossoms, landowners and hard-
working, hard-loving beekeepers, some-
times melodramatic, usually amusing,
always high-spirited.
MY GRANDMOTHER
When, as a child, I peered through dusk
At three old ladies dressed in black
They always laughed, then sailed away—
And only night would bring them back.
And when the moon was bleak and full,
A time that people said was evil,
The ladies changed to three black swans
And sailed the pond beneath the steeple.
No wonder I should fear these swans:
The evening two men came and carried
My grandma, tense, within a box,
The three black swans remained un-
worried.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.
Eastern Art
The Art and Architecture of China
and The Art and Architecture of Japan
are the latest volumes in the Penguin
“History of Art” series. Both works
have been magnificently illustrated, and
three Western savants, Laurence Sick-
man, Alexander Soper and Robert
Treat Paine, have been engaged to
explain the illustrations.
The quality of a painting or a piece
of sculpture or a building is not deter-
mined by its form or subject-matter,
still less by its nationality. The vital
thing is the living quality of the line.
This is brilliantly exemplified in the
Penguin illustrations. Look at plate 80
in the Chinese volume, a reproduction
of the 12th-century Kuan-yin in the
City Art Museum, St. Louis. Kuan-
yin was the Buddhist Virgin, and just
as tens of thousands of Western artists
carved and painted their Madonna, so
tens of thousands of Eastern artists
painted and carved their goddess of
mercy. Countless times precisely the
same form was repeated. The right
arm rests on the right knee, the legs are
flexed beneath the body and you can
feel the weight of the relaxed body
being carried on the left arm. The
effect is that of a rather stout, comfort-
ably furnished, easygoing matron. No
doubt she is contemplating the eternal
verities in Nirvana where there is no
cooking and washing-up to be done.
Although over the centuries that
intervened between the T’angs and the
Mings this form never varied, except
that sometimes an arm was outstretched
or a leg hung pendent, the Eastern
sculptor never tired of carving his
Kuan-yin, any more than the Western
sculptor wearied of sculpting his Virgin
and , Child. Sometimes, the carving
tended to become stiff and academic
until, perchance, some Chinese Phidias
or Donatello would happen along and
give life to the old form. ,
Of this the Kuan-yin in the National
Gallery in Melbourne is a superb
example. Although the Chinese Kuan-
yin and the Greek Aphrodite are cen-
turies apart, in time and the alleged
products of entirely different social-
systems, they are brothers—or should
we say sisters?—in their inspiration;
which was Nature.
The same bland indifference to
form and subject-matter distinguishes
the Chinese and Japanese painter. The
extraordinary facility with the brush
which his calligraphy gave the Chinese
artist enabled him, with a half-dozen
strokes, to put on paper a fish or a
bird or a bamboo which lives in the
same way as a Rembrandt drawing of
a peasant. As the paint or ink dried
immediately, a brushstroke could not
be altered; so the artist’s ability to
record his first impression must have
depended entirely on his visual
memory, following his observation.
Plate 121 (B) in the Chinese volume
and plate 73 in the Japanese are
supreme examples.
Why, then, did Chinese and Japanese
painting, otherwise so accomplished,
remain for so many centuries on so
simple a level? The historians try to
explain it on the ground of racial,
ethical, philosophical or political con-
siderations, as if they make any diff-
erence to the artist. If an artist
describes something in terms of his
medium it is either a true or a false
description, and it will be just as true
or false whether it is executed under a
Soviet dictatorship or a democracy.
Obviously these Eastern artists did
not lack observation; nor were they less
interested in Nature than their Western
brothers. Compare the way El Greco
paints a piece of paper and the way
Hoitsu paints a waterhen: they were
at it about the same time, incidentally.
There is absolutely no difference in
their viewpoints.
Nor were the Eastern artists less
focused on the one thing they had in
common with their Western brothers.
When he was 75 Hokusai said of him-
self: —
Since the age of six I have had the
habit of drawing forms of objects.
Although from about 50 I have often
published pictorial works, before the
70th year none of it is of much
value. At the age of 73 I was able to
fathom slightly the structure of birds,
animals, insects and fish, the growth
of grasses and trees. Thus perhaps
at 80 my art may improve greatly ; at
90 it may reach real depth, and at
100 it may become divinely inspired.
At 110 every dot and every stroke
may be as living.
But El Greco inherited an oil-
technique perfected by Van Eyck:
there was no Van Eyck to liberate the
Eastern artist from the limitations of
his watercolor technique, so, while
Western art went forward to the glory
of Titian and Rembrandt, Eastern art
remained completely static.
There were no such limitations on
the Eastern builder. The form of
Chinese architecture was determined by
lieolithic-man’s need for protection
from the weather. He dug a hole in
the ground and added a peaked roof
°f mud or sticks, and this is indicated
by the pictograph meaning “shelter.”
Later he came above ground and built
a gabled roof over four walls, and this
is also indicated by the changed shape
of the ideograph for “shelter.”
This simple form sufficed the Chinese
architect for countless generations, just
as the far more complex Gothic
sufficed the European architect, and
it was repeated endlessly in temples
and monasteries, palaces and gentle-
men’s houses, the gates of walled cities
and fortifications, in mud, brick, stone.
timber and marble; but within the form
there is the same rich content as is to
he seen m Gothic. Chinese architec-
ture only began to soar upwards when
Buddhist missionaries brought in the
Indian stupa, and a pagoda-building
obsession seized the country in one
province there were 20,000 of them,
Chinese rulers, like European, loved
magnificence and fighting, and when
an Emperor was away fighting his
architects were creating magnificence
for him. One Empress was so charmed
with the plans for a 1000 ft. pagoda
her architect presented to her that sue
gave him carte-bhinche on the spot.
? nd n ° doubt he would have executed
it if the Empress hadn t been executed
beforehand for overburdening her sub-
jects with taxes to pay for the pagoda,
Priestly men were just as obsessed with
praising Buddha in vast temples as the
abbots of the Middle Ages with prais-
ing God with great cathedrals, and
many of them were their own architects
and builders. They made life inside
their monasteries so much more
interesting than life outside that at one
period there were so many alleged
ascetics—3,ooo,ooo of them—that "the
Peacock Throne had to issue edicts
limiting their numbers,
Chinese Buddhism and architecture
stepped over to Japan together, and
there the same process was repeated,
but at a faster tempo.
Mervyn Skipper.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 388
Across
I—Blood1 —Blood vessel surrounding crook
guns. (9)
6—South backed up me with foam.
(5)
9—Execrated back to take a pur-
chase to the buyer bowl and bear.
, (7 >
10— According to such work
schedules, the article does not
appear with the roast beef
dropped by Erskine. (7)
11— Old French coin. (3)
12 — Holy city needs no addition for
a boy’s amusement. (5)
14 —Clownish rustic with artless
capital for Tasmanians. (3)
17— Swallow a Jonathan? (5)
18— Buonaparte is turning an end of
the earth’s axis against one. (9)
-o—Exhibits brainier qualities South
knit badly. (9)
21—Cub-reporter is a heel —and
French. (5)
22 These are touched by shouters
punts ( 5 )
25 A girl is to spoil leave. (5)
26 German city letters. (3)
27 fieldsman placed by footwear.
28—Siberian river money is East Ego.
29 Cache two things that Joan of
Arc became. (5)
30 — Scaly ant-eater to fortify an idiot
duck. (9)
Down
1 — Many a flame-seeking sailor has
this lecture on the box-office all
right. (7, 4)
2 Hospital mud is tickling only the
heart of the fundamental Jewish
legal code. (11)
3 None lights engagements
arranged by Cupid. (4, 7)
4 Rae upset the organ. (3)
5 Dress up Mellbourne’s largest
drain? (5)
7 Irishman and I love a courtyard
(5)
8— Oliver Twist wanted this victim
of Henry VIII. (4)
13— Don’t stop conserving a cleric.
(5)
14 — Midway through the coronation.
Queen Elizabeth was thus a 2s. 6d.
editor. (4-7)
15— The French sang with craft, but
circulation depends on it. (5-6)
16 — Miser is tops when bashed as fast
as possible. (11)
19 —Puzzle consisting of tangled
ropes is a sitter. (5)
23 —Small sea-girt territory is ten-
anted. (5)
24 — Spike arranged headgear for the
desert soldiers. (5)
25 — First-class sheep upset girl spoil
one by one. (5)
28—Sweet potato time’s up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 387


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane/ Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.,
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pace Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
ItorntTl awrtMy fey MOFFAT-VIRTU* LIMIT**
June
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1956
CONGRATULATIONS!
to the Organisers and Exhibitors
at the 1956 Sydney Sheep Show
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., is proud to be associated as an exhibitor of Machinery with a movement of national
importance, through the Annual Sheep Show ... a work designed to improve the quality and breeding
of Australian Sheep, as well as keep the Industry abreast of the latest developments in husbandry and
in modem machinery for the Pastoralist. #
The exclusive Moffat-Virtue Cone Pulley Assembly
showing Full-Floating Transmission Spring-Drive.
The success of
this year’s Show
is a tribute to the
organisers, the
exhibiting pas-
toralists, and to
the Australian
Wool Industry
generally,
Moffat - Virtue
Ltd., whose
Show stand this
year featured
many new and
re volutionary
lines for the
Grazier, was
happy to renew
acquaintance
with many
friends from all
parts of Aus-
tralia.
Our staff, after
conversations
with leading Graziers, reported growing interest
in Moffat-Virtue’s exclusive Solid Steel Core
Downtube.
These Graziers were unanimous in their acclaim
of the undoubted advantage of a steel core
downtube, which not only gives the shearer
greater freedom of movement (which means
faster, more comfortable shearing) but also
means a considerable saving in running cost
due to the fact that the Moffat-Virtue Steel
Core is virtually everlasting.
Many Graziers are not aware of this great
advantage . . . There are approximately 40,000
Stands of M.V. Ball Bearing Overhead and
Electric Gear in operation, for which the total
cost of replacement of steel cores is negligible.
One prominent Grazier exclaimed: “My Eight-
Stand M.V. Gear, which is sixteen years old,
has cost me only about twenty-five shillings in
maintenance cost!”
At this time, when production cost in relation
to selling prices is of such vital importance to
every Grazier, it is well to remember that
replacement of damaged and worn-out down-
tube cores of various types is an expensive item
every season. By the installation of M.V. Gear,
this problem can be obviaited.
THE WORLD'S MOST ADVANCED DESIGN IN SHEARING MACHINERY
THE MOFFAT-VIRTUE Ball-Bearing
ELECTRIC GEAR...
Only M.V. Gear incorporates all the advantages listed below, advantages which are designed to improve
the efficiency of your shed. The Moffat-Virtue Gear, wherever it can be installed, will give lower running j
cost, smoother operation and easier installation.
®l/3rd-H.P. Heavy Duty, constant-speed Electric
Motor, fitted with Heavy Duty, Grease Packed,
Thrust Type, Ball Bearings, absolutely silent in
operation.
# Sturdy ‘L’ shaped Bracket with three Bolt holes for
ease of installation.
® Friction Wheel Drive, the accepted medium of
Power transmission to the Down Tube, enabling
full speed shearing.
# Ratchet Assembly to control power from Motor
to Down Tube. This Ratchet control is the
simplest, most effective transmission control on the
market. By the use of a Cam a pull on the cord
enables the engagement of the Friction Leather
with the revolving Friction Wheel, and so Power
is transmitted to the Handpiece. The Ratchet
positively returns to its original position in readi-
ness for the next pull of the cord which once again
operates the Cam and disengages the Drive —abso-
lutely fool-proof and gadget-proof. One Pull and
it’s in; another and it’s out.
# Spring-controlled tension between Friction Wheel
and Friction Leather to ensure even, full speed
shearing. This system obviates any bump between
Leather and Friction Wheel when pulling into
Gear and so retains the Leather in its original,
new condition, saving costs on replacement and
ensuring a continuous uninterrupted run.
(Continued on column 3)
Have you experienced the advantages of a
Moffat-Virtue DOUBLE ENDED Ball Bearing
ELECTRIC GRINDER?... Silent running
and so smooth in operation. Available on
fabricated steel stand for direct mounting on the
shed floor (see photo.) or on cast sub-base for
mounting on existing Grinder Post.
• Direct in-line pressure exerted between Friction
Wheel and Leather Cone Pulley which positively
means that the Leather is always in the correct
position in relation to the Friction Wheel which
obviates scrubbing of the Leather, once again mini-
mising costly replacements and unnecessary inter-
ruptions.
• Twin Heavy Duty Ball-Bearing Cone Pulley
Assembly. The top Bearing is not placed above the
Leather where grease can interfere with the Drive,
but rather is it placed right in the centre of the
Leather Cone in such a position that it is directly
opposite the thrust from the Friction Wheel and
also so that grease cannot interfere with the Drive,
once again ensuring full speed shearing.
• PLUS THIS ADDITIONAL ADVANTAGE . . .
the famous, longer-lasting full-floating transmission
Steel-Cored Downtube. This system ensures con-
stant cutter-speed, resulting in faster, easier shear-
ing and reduced second cuts.
• The Moffat-Virtue Electric Gear is available in
240 volt single-phase A.C. and 415 volt 3-phase
A.C. Models also for operation from 110, 50, and
32 volt D.C. Home Lighting Plants.
M.V. ELECTRIC
SHEARING GEAR
The complete details of these plants are available
from M.V. Agents, and all State Distributors, as listed
across the foot of this page.
