

e
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
X'
No. 302: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
The Bulletin
THE SMITH A MIGHTY MAN —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3983
Wednesday, June 13, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
HISTORY'S FOOTSTEPS ECHO BENEATH RYE'S ANCIENT LANDGATE.
MANY survivals from a long and eventful past can be seen in the narrow.
picturesque streets of Rye on the Sussex coast, a favourite haunt of
artists. Its medieval atmosphere is clearly evident at the Landgate, illustrated
here, situated at the northern entrance to the town on the London road. It
is the only remaining one of four gates which marked the circuit of the town
walls commenced during the reign of Edward 111 (1327-1377) as a protection
against the raiding French. One of their most destructive raids occurred in
1377 when they plundered and burned almost the whole town and carried
off as hostages four of the chief inhabitants.
The massive drum-towers of the Landgate, built about the year 1340,
are over forty feet in height and originally housed the machinery for the draw-
bridge over the moat. The portcullis grooves and gate-hinges can still be seen.
Another nearby landmark, dating from medieval times, is the Ypres
Tower, an extraordinary fortification on the cliff-side of the town which was
built by Henry 111 at a time when the sea Japped the rock on which Rye
stands. Since early times, the sea has receded and Rye is no longer the
important seaport it was. During the reign of Elizabeth 1 heavy traffic across
the channel to France was maintained and Rye became the centre of an
extensive maritime trade.
As one of the Cinque Ports, of which Sir Winston Churchill is Lord
Warden, Rye played an important part in the defence of the Sussex coast. The
original five members of the confederacy were Dover, Sandwich, Romney,
Hythe and Hastings, to which were added later Rye and Winchelsea. In the
reign of Edward 111 Rye and Winchelsea provided fifteen of the 105 ships and
•2000 men sent by the Cinque Ports to the Siege of Calais, and they also
provided a powerful force to serve in the fleet against the Spanish Armada.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 26<i, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
"The Red Page
ARISTOTLE AFTER ALL
“When neither he to whom we speak
nor he who speaks to us understands,
that is metaphysics.”— Voltaire.
Walter Scott described the 999th
Everyman, Manzoni’s “I Promessi
Sposi,” as “the best novel ever
written.” Nobody has ever had the
temerity similarly to define the long-
awaited 1000th, Aristotle’s Meta-
physics, as an ultimate best.
Philosophy speaks the language of
change, and every generation which
professes it is apt to hold those who
have gone before to be wrong in their
basic conceptions. In any case, students
who have emerged from a tussle with
the logic of Plato’s most famous pupil
have rarely the energy of mind left for
either praise or blame. They are apt
to feel a little as Laocoon must have
felt after the serpents had finished
with him.
Fewer and fewer among the human
race, of course, are called-on in their
salad-days to wrestle with the intri-
cacies of the “Eudemian Ethics” or
to reconcile or contrast the preliminary
probings of the “Categories” with the
maturer iconoclasm of the “Meta-
physics.” The happy days when Greek
was essential to promotion to the sixth-
form at school, and the more cultivated
strata of the British were lured into the
Hellenic world with Homer and
Euripides and then bludgeoned through
the older universities with large hunks
of the ancient philosophies, have almost
passed. The “fatted don of Isis’
banks” no longer always “in Plato’s
fields doth graze.” In these days only
the elite among them can sing:—
I am an educated chap—
Not common, mean or low,
Weaned on a tutor’s bottle,
Brought up on Aristotle,
Matured on Veuve Clicquot.
This seems rather a pity. If study
of the viorks-of Aristotle, anyway, does
not add to the gaiety of the student’s
existence it at lea'st provides a destruc-
tion-test for the mind-fibres and
ensures the survival of the fittest. Any
cranium that holds the means to cope
with the sage must contain brain-cells
of vanadium-steel, the mental agility
of an Italian acrobat, the resilience of
Joe Louis, the integral stability of a
rocket-pilot and the power of defying
the laws of gravity.
Aristotle is a lucid and logical pro-
fessor; in fact, lucidly and logically
interminable and inexorable. He
exhausts his mind and arguments on
every subject he touches. He also
exhausts his interlocutor. As founding
father of logic and metaphysics he has
the inborn tendency of all inventors to
talk.
There have, of course, been moderns
who have devoted their lives to the
study of the master. But it is signifi-
cant that most of the best of them have
been Continentals (who are all well
known to be a little touched) though
there have been odd Scots involved,
like Sir David Ross, who has provided
an introduction to the new edition of
the “Metaphysics,” which Mr. John
Warrington has prepared for Dents.
These enthusiasts, over a few genera-
tions, have tried to make the outpour-
ings of their subject clear: but all the
ordinary reader can say of most of their
attempts to untangle the manifold and
interlocking simplicities of their classic
instructor’s theories is that each suc-
ceeding expositor seems to think that
the preceding one has added to the
confusion of the text by hacking it
about with a butcher’s abandon.
Zabarella, Julius . Pacius, Felix
Ravaisson, Barthelemy St. Hilaire,
Waitz, Torstrik, Schwegler, not to men-
tion Cope, Butcher, Sandys, Jebb,
Shute, Ross and the rest, have all
worked the quarry of Apollo Apuleius.
But the whole of the ore of compre-
hension which they have dragged to
the surface might be well summed-up
in the dictum of Professor Case, Wayn-
flete Professor of Moral and Meta-
physical Philosophy at Oxford, that
“with Aristotle’s works before one, with
the ‘lndex Aristotelicus,’ and the
edition and translation of Bonitz on
one side, and Zeller’s ‘Die Philosophic
der Griechen’ on the other side,”
one can go “a considerable way to-
wards understanding the foundations
of Aristotelianism.”
This seems to be a just and appro-
priate judgment, though perhaps
flavored with the incautiousness of a
zealot.
There are, on the other hand, a large
army of punch-drunk authorities who
are not even agreed between them-
selves whether Aristotle wrote all his
own theses, or, if he did, when. And
there are still a few battalions who,
while they are prepared to admit with
the great majority that he did write his
own works (a matter on which it is
somewhat difficult to obtain affidavits
2200 years after the event) are also
ready to bet that somebody or some-
thing else —probably a fortuitous earth-
quake —did the arranging of them.
Aristotle is anything but an
organised writer as the modern world
knows him. He goes off at tangents,
runs up alleys, sits down by the road-
side to indulge in seemingly irrelevant
disquisitions, interposes lexicons of
terms and contradicts, in later works,
the maxims which he seemed to pose
as eternal in earlier ones.
Generally he is apt to play Old Harry
with the nerves of those trying to follow
him, and it is not without cause that
Mr. Warrington, who edits the Every-
man volume, has constituted himself
a trainer to the new disciples whom
Dents hope to see enter in the race to
catch up with the philosopher. They
will certainly need a coach and mentor.
The presence of Mr. Warrington
trotting by the roadside with wet
towels, a thermos and chocolate will
be an ever-present comfort to the
entrants.
He has been at great trouble to
organise the course properly:—
Having arranged the fourteen
books in some kind of logical order,
there remained the task of sign-
posting the reader’s way through the
complexities of Aristotle’s exposi-
tion. These, with the unfamiliarly
elaborate and over-terse phrases in
which they are often cast, are likely
to daunt, if not hopelessly to confuse,
all but the most accomplished
scholars.
So everything has been neatly
re-positioned and dovetailed in to avoid
diversionary expeditions which may tire
the runner and lead him up by-roads.
Sentences whose “meaning could other-
wise be made clear only by a spate of
explanatory notes” have, in course of
translation, been “expanded, contracted
or rearranged to render the content
of Aristotle’s words into reasonably
fluent English, and in the simplest form
compatible with translation as distinct
from a mere paraphrase.”
Aristotle was bom at Stagira in 384
8.C., son of a physician at the court of
Amyntas 11, King of Macedonia. He
was a pupil at Plato’s school in Athens
and became tutor to the 13-year-old
Alexander, afterwards the Great. When
Alexander succeeded to the throne of
Macedonia in 336 he returned to
Athens. There he hired a gymnasium
in the grove of Apollo Lyceius and
founded his “peripatetic” school in
which, as they walked with him through
shady colonnades, he instructed his
advanced students about his own views
and about the errors of Empedocles,
Protagoras and Plato. He fled from
Athens after the death of Alexander
in 323 to escape trial for “impiety”—
the ancient equivalent, obviously, of
Trotskyism or deviationism. He died
at Chalcis, in Euboea, a year later of a
“stomach complaint,” which may have
been the modern equivalent of a
Kremlin heart-attack.
His “Metaphysics” apparently is a
collection of lectures or tutorial notes
for one of his schools. They, Sir
David Ross believes, “express not a
dogmatic system but the adventures of
the mind in search of truth.” The
truth as Aristotle seems to have found
it in his own view was not seated in
the world of incorporeal universality
postulated by Plato or in that of
the shadowy mental embodiments and
states-of-mind envisioned by the
moderns but in the realm of sub-
stances, some natural, some super-
natural, but all substances. He thought
in terms of the individual, the
separable, the ultimate substratum of
substantial things and their predicates.
He sought to “establish fundamental
truths which cannot be inferred from
anything more fundamental.” Sub-
stance, with its essence “per se,” the
man and his maleness, the woman and
her femaleness, things and their reality
natural to themselves were the core of
his visualisation; definition, quality,
quantity, the attributes which dis-
tinguished each of them.
All this in his doctrine is reason-
ably clear. One hopes. A mere Oxford
don can understand it beyond ques-
tion.
When, however, the Master begins
to explain the niceties of “essence” and
“definition” his readers begin to com-
prehend what stout fellows the under-
graduates of his Lyceum must have
been to withstand his onslaught on their
battered faculties.
Thus on the important and interest-
ing question whether “coupled terms
have essence or definition,” the old boy
writes: —
Neither concavity nor snubness is
accidental to, but a “per se” attribute
of, nose. Nor are they attributes in
the sense that white is of Callias or
man, but as male is of animal... .in
fact, as all so-called “per se” attri-
butes attach to their subjects. There-
fore, either these terms have no
essence or definition at all, or else
they have them in a different sense.
If “snub nose” is the same as “con-
cave nose,” “snub” must be the same
as “concave.” But it is not the same ;
for “snub” (unlike “concave”)
implies a reference to “nose,” of
which it is a “per se” attribute,
inasmuch as it means “concavity-in-
the-nose.” Therefore, either we can-
not say “snub nose,” or else the
phrase is tautologous—“concave-
nose-nose”—because “snub nose”
will be equal to “concave-nose-
nose.” And so it is absurd to repre-
sent terms like “snub” as having an
essence. If they had there would be
an unlimited regress ; i.e., yet another
nose would be involved in “snub-nose
nose,” and so on ad infinitum.
One may pass over the fact that
Aristotle himself appears to have con-
tradicted this ingenious theory of
“unlimited regress” in another place.
Let us pay tribute to the elegance and
precision of his argument and the
abundant exactitude with which he
poses such simple queries as:—
What is being or not-beipg, truth
or falsity, in the case of an incompo-
site, as opposed to a composite
(which “is” when it is united and “is
not” when it is divided, like the
proposition that “the wood is white”
or “the diagonal is not commensur-
able”)?
Henry James in delirium could not have
been clearer, but Aristotle could when
he tried, as witness his definitions of
truth and falsehood which appear in
the chapter called “The Law of
Excluded Middle.” This would make a
returned victim of the M.V.D. con-
ditioning-cell weep in homesickness for
the familiar blows of theoretic reitera-
tion: —
Falsehood consists of saying of
that which is that it is not, or that
which is not that it is. Truth con-
sists in saying- of that which is that
it is, or of that which is not that it is
not. Therefore he that says of any-
thing that it is (or that it is not) says
what is either true or false ; but if
the subject is a middle term, neither
that which “is” nor that which “is
not” is being said to be or not to be.
One is apt to wonder why Dents
decided to make the “Metaphysics”
the 1000th Everyman volume. They
admit that it presents a “formidable
subject, especially to those who are
not Greek scholars,” and they do not
claim for the translation and editing
more than that it has made the matter
in the book “as easily comprehensible
as possible” to the Everyman reader.
Their explanation of their choice is
merely that, “in conformity with the
original plan of the Library,” they have
“inevitably favored a work whose claim
to permanence is indisputable.”
To which they might have added that
if it had been decided to choose a
volume to end all volumes it would not
have been possible to have found
another which would embody a more
comprehensive survey of elemental and
ageless human philosophy; or, for that
matter, one more out-of-tune with these
careless contemporary times which have
ceased to believe, as did Aristotle him-
self, that the dwelling-places of the
Muses are in “the souls of those who
love work” and that “virtue is necessary
to happiness.”
M. H. Ellis.
WATER-BEETLES
O water murmur, gently well
from the anxious desolate mountain.
Light stand like trees and moving spill
green and singing as a wild fountain.
O here in the hush of stone and dust,
fern uncoil a tender frond:
too long in this desolate place I’ve los
the source, the spring, the living pond
whose water-beetles dabble, bubble,
track the water, disappear.
Too brief their patterns move across
the surface of the sinking year,
O fern uncoil and water murmur
into a pool, the mind’s delight:
and in this drought, despair and dust
let beetles swerve their trails of light.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
South Australian Library
Perhaps as a token that South Aus-
tralia has capabilities beyond industrial
expansion, Adelaide has recently put
on an exhibition of books.
Ihe parent of this exhibition is the
Public Library of South Australia, re-
markable for the fact that it can trace
its beginnings to a date two years previ-
ous to that of the first settlement of the
State. For the pioneers of S.A., with a
characteristic regard for culture, formed
j England, in 1834, the South Aus-
tralian Literary Society, which made
sure that the City of Churches had a
reference- and circulating-library while
it was still a village of tents and bark
humpies.
Beginning with aboriginal churingas,
as a reminder that writing represents
man’s attempt to preserve hard-won
experience and racial tradition, and
with pots of tall papyrus-r-eed, the first
part of the “Books Through the
Ages” exhibition presented a series of
manuscript books and reproductions of
MSS. culminating in the library’s chief
MS. treasure, an antiphonal of the early
15th century. In accordance with
modern library policy, which insists
that books should be accessible to the
public, this great vellum folio, with
its clear large script and musical nota-
tion, blazing 'with the color and
burnished gold beloved of the medieval
illuminator, was placed where thous-
ands of hands —hands that knew the
controls of motor-cars and the plastic
butts of “ray-guns”—could turn pages
produced nearly a century before
Columbus discovered that other world
beyond the Atlantic.
The MS. section led naturally to the
Incunabula. Here pages * from the
world’s first presses at Mainz, and from
the great Venetian printers, were
reminders that Europe, 500 years ago,
at the very birth of typography, was
capable of producing books of a
quality far higher than most of those
handled by our Victorian grandparents,
or by many non-selective readers to-
day. Although the black Gothic types
of Fust and Schoeffer and the clear,
beautiful Roman and Greek founts of
Nicolas Jenson* were represented mainly
by reproductions, there were actual
productions of, the press of Aldus
Manutius, both the italic classic series
and a fine example of the Aldine
Roman issued by Aldus’s father-in-law
in the year following the death of the
great Venetian publisher. Perhaps the
climax of the Incunabula section was
a folio volume, lent by Adelaide Uni-
versity’s Barr Smith Library, of
Justinian’s Code, printed at Venice by
Johan Herbort von Seligenstadt in
1482 —six years before Pero da Covilha
reached India and Bartolomeu Dias
o Continued on page 35)


Our best selling
I i
m
m
I
ill
I
■ ■■
m
m
. -
w
■
:
I 1
1
-
'S
■
,h
m
■ ■
■ •. • a .
1
.
/
-
.
I
1 1
m
m
%
■KB
i
ii
■mm
■
m
, . ;-.’V
I\
i * < - ••
i/i
«rC
■’ ;■:
11
#2
v * »
'
■
■
>4'
.
Hv. :,'.
.
■■
M
\
B «
■■■■■■■■
• : ' ■
1 : ;
mM
Special Zip-Out
Lining
Here you can see a
close - up of this
special warming
device. The top
illustration shows
the warmer itself
out of the coat, and
at the right you
can see how the
zip works to give
you perfect com-
fort and to show
no signs on the
outside of the coat
Largest Range in
Sydney
We also stock
Aquascutum, Bur-
bury, Robert
Hirst, Wetherdair,
Sporco and Peltin-
vain in sizes rang-
ing from 34 to 44.
English Topcoats with
ZIP#
LIIII
11 T
GS
Here at Anthony Horderns’ we have coats
that you can change to suit the weather!
On cold days you simply zip in the
special warmer—when it’s not so cold
you zip it out again. These changes
to the inside of the coat make no
difference to the outside . . . it
always has the distinguished look
of fine English tailoring. We have
the largest range of English
coats in Sydney, so you can be
sure of getting the style you
want, the colour and the size
you want at the price you
want to pay. One range.
£22/10/0, single
breasted; £23/19/6,
double breasted. Also
double breasted,
sizes from 34 to 44,
from £l9/19/0;
single breasted
raglan style, sizes
34 to 44 priced
1- from
SlB/18/-
Men's Centre, Ground
Floor, George Street.
POST YOUR ORDERS TO BOX BOX 2712 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
Sli


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3983
Wednesday, June 13, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
WestKialia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DOUBLE TROUBLE
THE Prime Minister and Mr. McEwen are about
to negotiate on Australian trade matters with the
United Kingdom. There is, unfortunately, a back-
ground feeling in this country that all they have to
do to boost our exports to Britain is to show a
little toughness, insist on the abrogation of the
Ottawa Agreement and demand what some “Labor”
man described the other day as “justice” for
Australian commodities.
Australia—particularly the “Labor” section of
it -is itself doing little justice to Australian com-
modities, as a series of illegal shearing and transport
strikes, widespread slackness and a cry for
shortening hours illustrate.
At the moment, after opposing automation
wholeheartedly, “Labor” seems to have swung over
to support it, not because it gives a chance of
expansion of output and of cheapening processes
and improving our power to compete with other
exporting countries but because it offers a new
excuse for less work. The thought that automation
might be used as a tool of expansion wquld be too
absurd for words in the eyes of the Red unions
which dominate Australia’s industrial and transport
policy.
On the United Kingdom side it is not merely
a matter of what that country might be willing to
do in keeping up its buying of Australian goods but
what it is within its power to do. There is no room
in the British economy for a policy of unlimited
preferences to the members of the British Com-
monwealth, especially for those who expect their
customers to pay for an Australian 40-hour week.
The economic position of the United Kingdom,
indeed, is shaky, and becoming shakier. The infla-
tionary trends must almost without doubt soon have
a dampening effect on U.K. buying-power, since the
U.K. unions are now following the example of
Australian unions, and a price-spiral is in being
which is already robbing the key British industries
of power to compete with Continental countries.
The latest “Economic Bulletin of Europe,”
issued on May 31 by the United Nations Economic
Commission, declares that “the United Kingdom is
the one major industrialised country in Western
Europe where the overall industrial output has
stagnated since the middle of 1955.” It says that
to this fact is due the overall slowing-down in the
expansion of production in Western Europe in the
past few months.
In the Continental countries the most is being
made of the situation, irrespective of obligations.
Germany, for instance, while it has piled-up about
£ A 1,000,000,000 in gold-and-dollar reserves and
has a Budget-surplus of about £700,000,000 unused,
has refused to allocate more than 5.5 per cent, of
its ballooning revenue to defence. It has gone back
almost completely on its agreed defence programme,
leaving the burden on the U.S.A. and the U.K.,
while using every penny on which hands can be
laid for development of overseas trade. And in
Asia the competition of Japan with the United
Kingdom is increasing, and fresh rivals in Russia
and other Iron Curtain countries are rapidly
developing a cut-price race and are apparently
prepared, as an overall piece of Communist policy,
to make a dead loss on exports merely for the sake
of destroying Western markets and prestige.
Meanwhile the wage-demands continue in
Britain on a scale which has forced the calling of
a halt. There is no real unemployment in the U.K.
yet. Though in some trades, including especially
the motor business, which depend on exports, men
have been paid-off, they have so far found jobs
waiting for them in other industries. But it seems
obvious that the end of the spiral is coming near,
and with it unemployment must come.
Within the past few weeks, following extensive
wage-increases in the coal and transport trades and
in certain branches of engineering, there has been
a wholesale demand for pay-rises in the wood-
working industries. The engineering industries
had increases on the basis of 9s. 6d. a week
for unskilled laborers and 12s. 6d. for skilled men,
which cost the industry £BO million p.a. only last
March. But last week the management board of the
Engineering and Allied Employers’ National
Federation in London decided unanimously to
announce that a foreshadowed demand next August
for another £1 a week from shipbuilding and
engineering unions would be rejected out of hand in
“the light of the national inflationary position.”
Simultaneously the representatives of 70,000
locomotive-engineers and firemen, whose pay was
increased 7 p.c. in January, have announced that
they propose to demand another 15 p.c., which
would be a pipe-opener to the whole of the transport
unions seeking further rises.
Mr. Macmillan, Chancellor of the Exchequer,
told the country on May 31 that “our jobs are at
risk, and will be increasingly until this ruinous spiral
of wages and prices is stopped.” He made the plea
that the rises which had been granted throughout
industry during the past few months should be
regarded “as the end of the chapter and a fresh and
serious effort made to achieve stability”: —
If every rise in prices resulting from previous
wage-increases is to be regarded as ground for
further wage-increases, then we are certainly on
the road to ruin.
He said Britain was losing markets every day
to Germans and others whose prices had been
steadier and who were not carrying the handicaps of
British industrialists. And he pictured the ultimate
result of the present trends in sentences which have
a very real meaning for this country: —
The first effect of further development of the
wage-price spiral would be in the export
industries. But unemployment and short-time
working in these would be only the beginning.
As our national export-earnings fell our national
import-bill would have to be cut down correspond-
ingly... .People of Britain, as of every other
country, have to live on what they can earn—
what they can produce; no one owes them a
living We cannot get any real advantage by
demanding more and more paper-money that wifi
buy less and less. Indeed, unless we are careful,
we may put at risk some of the immense gains in
the standard of living that we have won in recent
years.
The problem is not only the United Kingdom’s.
It is also Australia’s, and in a double-barrelled
way, since the best part of our export market is the
British market. Inflation or depression in England
must have obvious effects here, especially in the
face of the considered attitude of loaf which is the
policy of most Australian union-leaders, who are
deliberately—in accordance with the open objective
of the A.L.P.—bent upon making the system of free
enterprise fail so that it can be socialised.
If the British market cannot pay our prices,
or comes to the point in which in sheer self-preserva-
tion it has to discard a reasonable system of prefer-
ences, it will be a disastrous day for the Common-
wealth. Disastrous most of all for those who are
cutting the ground from under the feet of our
export trade by a hungry and irresponsible policy
aimed to eat the golden goose to the last tail-feather,
irrespective of what follows. The spiral in Aus-
tralia is dangerous enough. With a companion
spiral wrecking the international earning-power of
our best customer, the future is gloomy unless
labor comes to its senses.
Rationalising the Shipping Industry
THE Commonwealth Shipping Line is to suffer a
sea-change; not the first, but certainly a rather sur-
prising one, as its object is to place “on a more
satisfactory and permanent basis” the running of
the ships which until recently were assumed to be
up for sale.
At present the vessels are operated under the
authority of the National Security (Shipping Co-
ordination) Regulations, a set-up the Liberal-
Country-party Government inherited from its pre-
decessors and which dates from the time when
Socialism was in flower. That such a loose arrange-
ment has been permitted to continue so long is
explained by the knowledge that the Government
intended to sell the ships and so could see no sense
in tinkering about with technicalities when it
expected soon to be able to wash its hands of the
whole venture.
When the Menzies Government came into
office it not only tried to put the Commonwealth
Line on a paying basis —it succeeded. At the same
time it was never completely wedded to the idea of
remaining for ever in the shipping business; it was
prepared to sell-out if a suitable buyer could be
found. Even the Government’s political enemies
will scarcely deny that it has tried—and tried hard
—to dispose of its embarrassing legacy. “Hansard”
is full of attacks upon it for real and imaginary
attempts to sell the ships. Time and time again
“Labor” members have “revealed” plots to “hand
over the people’s assets to the shipping combines
at bargain prices.” Even as recently as the last
election there were allegations that the vessels had
been sold for a song on time-payment terms and
that the fact was being concealed until after the
election. More recently still it was suggested during
the debate on the Whaling Industry Bill that the
ships were about to be sold.
The abandonment of the attempt to sell the
ships doesn’t mean that the Government has been
belatedly converted to Socialism. The change of
plan doesn’t denote a change of heart; it is, in fact,
completely in keeping with its 1949 undertaking.
In introducing the first of two bills dealing with
Australian coastal shipping, Senator Paltridge,
Minister for Shipping and Transport, told the
Senate that, despite Opposition charges that it had
been trying to give the ships away, the Govern-
ment’s intention had always been to dispose of
them only on condition that it received a fair price,
that the ships remained on the coast, that the buyers
would guarantee an adequate service, and that the
position of the Australian shipbuilding industry
would be protected.
Having found it impossible to arrange a sale
on terms which satisfied all these points, it had
decided to continue to operate them under Govern-
ment ownership. At the same time, recognising the
importance of private shipping companies, it had
taken steps to enable them “to continue to play
their rightful part in providing shipping services in
our coastal trades.”
The Australian Coastal Shipping Commission
Bill provides for a commission of five members to
operate the Commonwealth ships. The commis-
sion will be given powers to operate vessels
in the inter-State and overseas trades (though
in general overseas trips will be undertaken
only in special circumstances). The intention is to
place the commission as far as possible in the same
position as a private operator of ships; Ministerial
powers will be limited to a power of approval or
disapproval of freight-rates, except that the
Minister may direct the commission to provide a
service to meet the needs of a particular area. So
long as the commission is showing an overall profit
on its operations it will be expected to absorb any
losses on developmental services, but in bad years
it will be reimbursed for such losses. The com-
mission will be expected to charge the lowest
possible rates consistent with securing revenue
sufficient to recoup expenditure and pay a reason-
able return on its capital.
The initial capital of the commission will
consist of the value of the ships and other assets it
takes over from the Australian Shipping Board,
including ships under construction; further funds
may be added by Parliament. No interest will be
due on the capital, but the commission will pay
dividends to the Commonwealth out of profits. In
accordance with the principle of making the com-
mission a true competitor with private shipping
lines it will be required to pay income-tax and
sales-tax.
The second leg of the shipping legislation is
the, Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement Bill,
which aims to rationalise the industry along lines
of fair competition between Government and
private shipping-lines.
The Government undertakes that, except in
special circumstances, the tonnage operated by the
commission will not exceed 325,000 gross tons
(the present tonnage is 270,000 tons). If the Gov-
ernment feels that further tonnage is needed on the
Australian coast it will notify the shipping com-
panies, requiring them to build or acquire addi-
tional ships. If they do not do so the commission
may then make good the deficiency. Disputes as
to the necessity of such tonnage will be referred
to an independent authority.
In the past the Australian Shipping Board
has not engaged in stevedoring, nor has it attended
to the actual booking or handling of cargo carried
by its vessels. This work has been performed by
private companies. The commission will adhere to
this practice so long as it is satisfied that the work
is being done efficiently. Any doubts that arise on
this point may be referred to the independent
authority. Provision is also made for the protection
of the shipbuilding-industry. This is tied-in with
the provision for new tonnage and with the existing
subsidy for shipbuilding, recently increased to
thirty-three-and-a-third per cent.
The Opposition is opposing both bills. This
is not surprising, as the private shipping companies
are one of “Labor’s” pet hates, and, whatever they
may say in their more guarded moments, their real
desire is to see a completely nationalised coastal-
shipping service. The Ashley Shipping Act, passed
in March, 1949, but never proclaimed, though the
Chifley Government was in office for another eight
months after that, contained clauses which, what-
ever their avowed purpose, could have been used
to procure this objective by stealth. That Act is
now being repealed.
When the new bills were introduced in the
Senate all the usual accusations about betraying
the people’s interest were made by “Labor,” but
they had a hollow ring. The truth is that the
Government is trying to make the best of a difficult
situation.
The only possible buyers for the Common-
wealth ships were the Australian shipping com-
panies, and these haven’t the money to pay the
price. Nor, in the present condition of the shipping-
industry, could capital be attracted to a new com-
pany formed to take over the fleet. The legislation
accepts these facts and endeavors to provide an
economical shipping-service for the community
with safeguards to the Government ships and the
private companies alike.


CAT-AND-DOG LIFE


"Brigalow”
New Serial
In next week’s issue (June 20)
“The Bulletin” will commence
publication of Brigalow, a delight-
ful serial-story set in the cattle-
country of central Queensland.
Written by R. S. Porteous, it is
one of the most authentic and
entertaining stories ever written
about Australian station-life. It is
full of horses and horsemen, cattle
and cattle-dogs, with the girl from
the station vying with the doctor’s
daughter in town.
The town has one long main-
street; the pub has a loose step at
the back-entrance which everyone
trips over but no one fixes; there
are Wonga and Sneezer; and
Carson, the station-owner, thinks
he has worried himself into an
ulcer, but the doctor says he has
nothing the matter with him that
a good shower of rain won’t cure.
Hooves thunder through the
brigalow-scrub; bushfire menaces
Bob Anders and Julia; everyone
forgathers at the dances and “dos”
in town; there are fights and there
is endless action and fun among
the cattle and around campfires.
A tip in advance—you’ll
really like
"BRIGALOW"
► Starting in next week’s
“Bulletin.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
Pay or Walk!
Increased fares on N.S.W. Government
transport have been a foregone conclu-
sion for months, although the issue was
dodged at the last election. In the last
couple of weeks every Sydney newspaper
had its guess at what the jump would be,
but all estimates fell short of reality,
which possibly explains Premier Cahill’s
comment that his new schedule, while
unpalatable and unpopular, was realistic.
He told a press conference:
It gives no one pleasure to have extra
charges imposed, but transport is a business
and it has to be faced-up to realistically.
1 have done that.
This realisation that transport is a
business has come rather belatedly to the
N.S.W. Premier. It wasn’t apparent a
few years ago when, at the behest of the
railway unions, he directed Railways
Commissioner Winsor to withdraw an
objection to weekend penalty-rates
which he had lodged with the Arbitration
Court. It wasn’t apparent when he
agreed to pay quarterly cost-of-living
adjustments to Government employees,
although the Federal Arbitration Court
had discontinued them. Nor did busi-
ness principles worry the Premier much
when, after years of stopping-and-start-
ing work on the Circular Quay loop, he
suddenly ran up big overtime bills in the
closing months of last year in order to
get it finished as an election-day gesture.
The mess into which this unbusiness-
like business of N.S.W. Government
transport has been allowed to flounder
is shown by the announcement that, even
after allowing for the £l2f-million extra
revenue which the higher fares and
freights will bring-in next financial year,
the trains, trams and buses are still
expected to show a deficit of £6 million.
The increases are rather staggering.
Suburban train-fares will rise by a third,
season-tickets by 45 per cent., workmen’s
weekly tickets by 40 per cent., country
fares by 15 per cent. Hitherto women
commuters have enjoyed a concession-
rate of a third below the male rate. This
privilege disappears, as does the half-
rate concession to youths under 18.
Tramwaymen, railwaymen, busmen,
Members of Parliament and others on the
free or part-free list will still enjoy their
long-established balancing act, riding
with one foot on the train or tram and
the other on the taxpayers’ shoulders.
Freight-rates are increased by 5 and 10
per cent. Beer is among the items in the
first category; milk is in the second.
Tram- and bus-fares jump 50 per cent,
for the first section (new rate, 6d.) rising
to a maximum of Is. 9d. (present maxi-
mum, Is.).
There has been talk of an investigation
of the N.S.W. transport-system by a firm
of American business-consultants. But,
judging from Cahill’s guarded remarks,
it seems that this will be not so much an
investigation as a recommendation to the
Government as to how it should carry-
out an investigation. Whichever it is, its
ultimate report will have to come up
against the realism of the transport-
unions which, in the past, has always
triumphed over the realism of the Cahills.
Retreat from Socialism
The N. S. Wales fare- and freight-rises
present some novel aspects, though there
was nothing extraordinary in the way
in which they were foisted on the public.
The Government well knew what the
position would be at the end of the
financial year before the elections. But
it also knew what the reaction of the
electors would be if they were told then.
The rises, staggering as they are, were
only to be expected in the parlous condi-
tion of the ramshackle, undisciplined thing
that N.S.W. flatters with a name of
transport “system.” What is abnormal
is that its position seems to be so desper-
ate that it has caused Mr. Cahill and his
Ministers to desert the party objective and
abandon Socialism, which is the only
thing that supposedly justifies the exis-
tence of the party.
Mr. Enticknap, Minister for Trans-
port, has said that, if any private company
is ready to take over all N.S.W. tram
and bus services and the debt on them,
the Government would accept the offer.
And if another private company wants
to build the Warringah railway to service
the coastal suburbs north of Sydney the
Government will “consider its proposi-
tion.”
The Minister didn’t seem hopeful that
any company would want to take up his
offer. He obviously thinks that anybody
who did would be a lunatic. He says
that private companies so far have
found that their transport services don't
pay, and proudly recalls that the Govern-
ment had to take over the Sydney Ferries
because private enterprise was unable to
carry on.
He failed to say, in respect of that
matter, that Sydney Ferries paid hand-
somely until the State Government set
out to hamper and compete with the
company in every available manner.
He also failed to say that at least the
Sydney Ferries gave a friendly and
reasonably clean and effecient service, in
contrast to the frowsy and unpunctual
service today conducted by people who
appear to regard the travelling public
t as a nuisance and a bar to an easy life.
But the condition that any private
authority entering into the N.S.W. trans-
port field must for ever carry round its
neck the debts which are the
price of Socialist failure, in addition
to the capital-value of the jumble of
largely out-of-date trams and buses which
are described as rolling-stock, with the
power facilities to run them, is enough
to scare-off any investor.
The thing of practical interest about
the offer is that it constitutes an admis-
sion of the complete failure of the State
Socialism which is always held up by
“Labor” as a recipe for the millennium.
The only enterprise which is a greater
financial failure than the trams and buses
is, of course, the N.S.W. railways, which
road- and air-carriers will now be able
to undercut to glory wherever the State
Government hasn’t the power to prevent
them. The railway debt has reached
such a stage that the people of N .S.
Wales are paying interest equivalent to
about 12s. per yard of railway-line a
year.
Shrine and Slacks
“Collins St.” : A Caulfield (Vic.) house-
wife took her children to the Shrine of
Remembrance to teach them the signifi-
cance of the two world wars and was
turned away because she was wearing
slacks. She also wore an overcoat as it
was cold and she had leg-pains ; so she
sent her children in by themselves.
Age will tell ; the Shrine trustees are
in their sixties. Perhaps that’s why the
State Government’s most recent appoint-
ment (in March) was Peter Isaacson, who
had a distinguished air-war record and
is now a suburban newspaper-nabob, and
is a comparative stripling of 35.
— >
S.-p. on the Run
For 40 years at least big starting-price
betting-agencies have operated in Mel-
bourne, and there have been proportion-
ately large agencies in the country, but
most of them have never been raided,
and only one really important agency
has been turned-over in the past decade.
The Police Department’s gaming-
branch had a staff of 16, separate offices
in Little Bourke-street away from Russell-
street headquarters, and, of course, access
to as many of the department’s remark-
ably numerous fleet of cars as needed.
The branch was successful in apprehend-
ing back-lane bettors, but its record in
shutting-up the well-heeled operators,
some of whom could place commissions
off-the-course of as much as £5OOO, was
not auspicious.
In March a special-duties squad was
formed, on the instructions of Selwyn
Porter, the major-general who had left
the job of running Myer’s staff to become
Commissioner of Police. No more was
heard of the new branch until on May 19
its members made its first full-scale raid
on an elaborately-equipped suite of rooms
on the top-floor of a St. Kilda block of
flats by battering-down a heavy steel door
with sledgehammers and with jemmies.
There were 40 telephones in the suite.
The next week the special-duties squad
energetically visited offices at Flinders-
lane and detained five men and a woman.
There were 16 telephones at this address.
The next act was the announcement
that 100 of the biggest s.-p. bookmakers
wouldn’t operate at the weekend, and
many sent out cards to their “clients”
advising them of their decision, with the
promise to keep them informed when
they opened again. When there was no
major raid, many of them reopened.
Not one reference to the sudden, sweep-
ing and surprising success of the special-
duties squad has been made by any State
Minister, the press, or Porter himself ; but
the (temporary, at least) closing-down of
the s.-p. men in a little more than two
months by the squad, after the failure
of the gaming-branch to make any real
headway over so long a period, is a re-
markable achievement meriting special
commendation.
How far the raids are linked with
complaints by the racing-clubs of the ex-
tent of s.-p. betting and with the inten-
tion —there can be no doubt of it on his
speeches and writings—of Attorney-
General Rylah to introduce legal off-
course wagering can’t be gauged at
present.
The intention to make a genuine effort
at least to curb s.-p. betting is clear ; but
no country has been able to stamp it out,
and no doubt all the temporarily scared
operators will resume business gradually,
giving Rylah the reason, and a sound
one, for his bill to legalise betting-off-the-
course.
Go to Pokataroo!
If N.S.W. Railways Commissioner
Winsor gets the time, between rows with
his erstwhile friends in the Cahill
Ministry, he might well spend a week,
incognito, travelling on the line that runs
from Burren Junction to Pokataroo, in
the north-west of the State.
Those people who spend their lives out
there, raising sheep and cattle in the
blacksoil country, can’t complain about
the railway service; there isn’t any
service. From the time goods are dis-
patched from Sydney to, say, Old Burren,
there is every chance that they will finish-
up somewhere in the State other than at
Old Burren. Pokataroo, perhaps;
Narrabri; Werris Creek ; in fact, stick a
pin in the map anywhere in that region,
and your goods are just as likely to be
there as where they ought to be. And
probably soaking in the rain or rotting in
the sun.
When goods are tracked-down, too
often they are broken or damaged. The
fact that the Railways Department pays
claims in respect of these almost without
demur suggests that it is resigned to the
situation. No wonder N.S.W. rail ser-
vices are dear and nasty.
And the trains are usually late. A
couple of hours behind schedule,
especially on Fridays, is nothing at all out
of the way at Pokataroo.
Whose Brief, and Why?
“In the ACT”: When Wentworth, M.P.,
declared in the House of Representatives
last week that Dr. Evatt, speaking on the
Stevedoring Industry Bill, was “holding
a brief for the Communist paymaster,”
there were some loud protests by several
“Labor” members. The Doc. was per-
mitted to continue his largely irrelevant
speech, but Mr. Wentworth had per-
formed a service by reminding everyone
that when Evatt some yefrs ago spoke on
the Anti-Communist legislation, after
accepting a court brief on the subject,
it had been necessary to suspend standing-
orders to allow him to continue.
It could well be that Healy and Monk,
listening in the wings, approved what
little the Opposition-leader had to say on
the bill, and the later diatribe by Ward,
who is his ambitious lieutenant although
Calwell holds the title of Deputy. These
speeches echoed much of what Healy and
Co. had already been saying around the
country, and they were perfect examples
of incitement to class-warfare of the kind
advocated and instigated constantly by
the Communists.
Supply Minister Howard Beale tore
Evatt’s speech to ribbons, and confronted
him with a provision in his own 1949
bill which was comparable with that in
the present legislation. But Beale also
wondered why Evatt, “automatically, so
to speak,” had lined-up with the Com-
munist head of the federation in denounc-
ing the bill root and branch before even
having had an opportunity of considering
it carefully, or of consulting the trade-
unions. This reference to Evatt’s
criticism (given on the night the bill was
introduced) was a smack in the eye for
several of the men still sitting dispiritedly
behind Evatt. They knew the answer,
presumably, and the knowledge didn’t
add to their comfort.
Docking the Dockers
From London: Millionaires are no
longer a race unto themselves. They don’t
cruise in luxury yachts, with Monte Carlo
as base. Nor do they have social
ambitions or generally splash their money
about.
No ; they work hard and long, it is said,
using private suites at the best hotels only
for sleep and business conference (some-
times even, reports allege, for entertaining
their foremen). In Britain they weekend
quietly on their farms and occupy their
scant mid-week leisure in unexceptional
felicity with their wives, listening to long-
playing records in their four-room flats or
taking an active interest in religious work
at church or synagogue.
One is forced to wonder whether
anonymity is not as essential to the
accumulation of a large fortune as a
shrewd financial sense. At all events, it is
now clear that publicity of the more,
flamboyant kind is anathema to the cap-
tains of industry and commerce.
The Dockers (of gold-plated Daimler
and champagne-party fame), whatever
the extent of their attainments, stand in
the public eye purely as great wealth,
lavishly displayed. This general impres-
sion, whether true or not, hardly seems
to have enhanced Sir Bernard Docker’s
reputation as a man of business. First,
the Midland Bank and, now, the Birming-
ham Small Arms Company, have wiped
him from their boards. His successor
as chairman of the B.S.A. (also reputed
to be a millionaire) is scarcely known
outside his business circle and rides a
motor-bike.
Managerial revolution and the workers’
sense of partnership in modern society
have reduced the differentials in more
ways than one. The moral seems to be
that if you happen to be a millionaire you
can’t afford to behave like one.
The A.L.P. Row
The special conference of the Federal
A.L.P. called to slaughter the N. S.
Wales “Grouper” Executive, if a weapon
is available, found an obstacle in the way
of its meeting.
It discovered, through “legal advice,”
that a special Federal conference can be
called only on the requisition of a
majority of the State branch-executives.
And its power to deal with the N.S.W.
Executive is further questioned on the
ground that it hasn’t supplied its pros-
pective victims with a copy of the charges
and the report of the results of its hear-
ing of them in May last. This, too, is a
breach of the party rules.
So far as the Evatt party is concerned
in the A.L.P. juntas, however, nobody
has ever worried about any rules during
the hunt against “Groupers.” The
Federal A.L.P. Executive has “rolled its
own,” and the special conference, with a
presumed majority of 28 to 8 against its
enemies, was expected to deal out justice
in the same spirit.
Apart from illegalities, the N.S.W.
Executive is showing no disposition to be
dragged to the block. It is fighting back
with all the conviction of a body which
has been elected legally—as it points out
—at a conference actually presided over
by the present Federal president at
“elections conducted for all offices for
which elections were due,” and which
has control of the official radio-station
and about £250,000-worth of assets.
It has issued a defiant pamphlet on be-
half of the N.S.W. branch called The
o Continued on next page)


Future of Labor . . . Report and Submis-
sions to the Special Federal Conference,
A.L.P., June 11, 1956, on behalf of
N.S.W. Executive.
It accuses its opponents of taking steps
which “would shatter Labor unity be-
yond repair,” though it admits graciously
that “not all of our opponents are dis-
honest, or unscrupulous, or totalitarian
or cynically opportunist, although many
are Not all are conscious tools of the
Communist party.” It declares that the
flimsy charges of subverting the election
by the issue of faked how-to-vote cards
and corrupt practices and maladministra-
tion were not only unproved but
disproved.
It declares that the case against the
branch executive was conducted by a
group calling themselves the Combined
Unions and Branches Steering Committee,
which “included the Australian Workers’
Union, the Transport Workers’ Union,
every Communist-dominated union in
N.S.W. and very few others represent-
ing those who have been rejected by the
rank-and-file of N.S.W. for years past,”
as they were rejected at the 1954 con-
ference. They write that the bringing of
the charges was a device to “deprive the
rank-and-file of their right to hold their
annual conference” because “the people
who fabricate and bring these charges
are afraid of the voice of the rank-and-
file. They want the Federal Executive to
instal them in office without rank-and-
file vote, in which they would be
defeated.” They accuse the Federal
Executive of specific and wilful disregard
of the rules in the face of protests by
the N.S.W. representatives.
The pamphlet reiterates a public charge
that one of its principal accusers before
the Federal Executive was “a liar and a
forger,” and states that the executive
previously “gave details of the allega-
tions. He has never denied them. He
has since stood for two rank-and-file
ballots in his own union and has been
defeated.” It announces that a second
accuser, Mr. Williams, Federal Secretary
of the Builders’ Laborers’ Union, was
unheard of in the movement till he joined
the A.L.P. in 1950. It calls attention
generally to the fact that the N.S.W.
branch’s main active enemies seem to
have drifted only very lately into promin-
ence in the A.L.P.', and cites, as one of
its examples, L. R. Johnson, M.H.R.
(Hughes):
He can hardly claim to be a Labor
veteran He stated that he had only
five years’ membership in the A.L.P., that he
was not a member of the union shown on
his current A.L.P. card, that he was an
unfinancial member of another union, that
for the previous two years he had been a
non-unionist, and had previously been an
organiser of the Clerks’ Union at a time
when it was under Communist control.
When asked whether the union was
under Communist control when he was an
organiser, he said he never inquired.
The N.S.W. branch reminds the con-
ference that another witness was political
secretary of the A.E.U., who was particu-
larly concerned about the operations of
the industrial-groups at the ballots of
1953 which smashed Communist control
of the Commonwealth council of the
union and who admitted that he had
been a member of the “Labor” party for
only 2\ years. It is pointed out that in
1953 “Dr. Evatt was at that time a
champion of the industrial-groups. He
spoke at the conference of the
industrial-groups in 1952, and opened
the industrial-group campaign for the
Ironworkers Union election in November
that year.”
The close accord in thought and action
between the Evatt Federal section of
“Labor” and the Communist party is
mentioned. It is stated that the issues
at present are (1) whether the Labor
party is to be a “democratic party, or a
centralised totalitarian party, with branch-
executives selected to hold office at the
pleasure of the Federal Council or
Executive” ; (2) is the Labor party to be-
come a “party of permanent Opposition,
increasingly narrow, doctrinaire and mori-
bund, its once-great body for ever wagged
by its pro-Communist tail?.... Is there
to be no place in the Labor party for
those who really believe that the Com-
munist attempt to infiltrate and subvert
the Australian Labor movement must be
resisted and defeated?”
It is obvious that whether the schism
is temporarily patched—as seemed un-
likely when this was written —or not, a
split is ultimately inevitable. There is
no doubt that, as in the days of J. S.
Garden, “Labor” has become honey-
combed with Communist supporters and
agents working for the United Front and
the ousting of all moderates from posi-
tions of influence.
POLITICAL POINTS
Fare go, Mr. Cahill!
• •
Eisenhower made history again last
week—the first American President to
have a diagram of his stomach radio-
grammed to the newspapers of the
world!
• •
A London Sunday paper is trying to
make Princess Margaret Governor-
General of Australia or Canada —appar-
ently it doesn’t mind which. Twelve
months ago similar irresponsible gossips
were canvassing the same jobs for the
Queen Mother. Needless to say, no
attempt is made to sound-out Canberra
or Ottawa before committing these
impertinences.
• •
Sydney City Council planning com-
mittee has struck trouble over a pro-
posed subway under Park-street, to con-
nect the Town Hall railway-station with
the Queen Victoria Building corner. The
Railways Department and the State
Government refuse to pay anything
towards the cost. The committee should
seek advice from the sponsors of the
College-street subway near St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Cahill and Co. made no bones
about paying for that.
• •
With the end of June and of its Senate
majority in sight, the Federal Govern-
ment is getting a legislative move-on. On
Thursday the Reps, passed the Arbitra-
tion Bill and half-a-dozen of its off-
spring ; introduced the National Health
Bill and the State Grants (Universities)
legislation and took the Stevedoring
Industry Bill to the committee stage. The
Senate passed the twin Coastal Shipping
Bills and took a first glance at the
Housing Agreement Bill.
• •
There was some doubt last week as to
whether sittings could be completed by
next Friday; even reminders of the
bitter weather outdoors failed to con-
vince some supporters of June 21 as the
date for starting the recess that some long
hours this week could clear the notice-
papers of both Houses. Rills to come
were the usual “chicken-feed,” accord-
ing to the old Parliamentary hands. Up
to last week the Government had shown
no inclination to curtail debates on the
major measures, but there had been some
long sittings. Longer ones are in prospect,
especially if it is decided to get into
recess next Friday.
.I • •
Senator Spooner says that if the States
accept the new housing-agreement, about
twice as many homes will be financed
for the amount advanced as could be
built under rental-schemes. N. S. Wales
Housing Minister Landa is recommend-
ing rejection of the agreement because it
would mean that fewer homes would be
built. Spooner’s argument is that the
building-societies, through which 20 per
cent, of the housing loans are to be
channelled, require a deposit from their
members and that their loans will be
repaid in 30 years as against the 53-year
term of the housing agreement. It
seems unanswerable —except to a Minister
wedded to State-landlordism.
• •
Judgment in the first two N.S.W. test-
cases affecting poker-machines in non-
proprietary clubs has been reserved until
June 19. Counsel for the clubs pleaded
that a club-member who played the
machines was not gaming, as the money
in the machines was the property of the
members and a man could not game,
wager or bet against himself. Counsel
for the U.L.V.A. (which is challenging
the licences of the clubs) maintained the
opposite view; the machines are an “un-
lawful, vicious and unfair” form of
gambling.
In the meantime Chief Secretary Kelly
has given a deputation an undertaking
that “the interests of the clubs will be
watched by Cabinet.” That could mean
much or little. Kelly made no promise
to recommend the licensing of the
machines or to legalise them if that should
become necessary.
Writing to the “S. M. Herald,” a reader
said that the Cahill Government’s latest
slug on transport was something “the
voting public will remember in 1959.”
Not likely! The voting public had plenty
of “Labor” misdeeds to remember in
1956, 1953, 1950 and 1947. But it still put
the men responsible back in office. If
the Cahills had announced the present
increases three months ago they d have
gone out on their necks —as they were
cynically aware—but three years is a
different matter.
• •
Dohring, “Labor” M.L.A. for Roma
in the Queensland Assembly, wasn’t home
and dried after all when he led by 136
with only 300 votes to come (B.
30/5/’56); he was kept in doubt till the
end. Ewan (C.P.) picked-up steadily as
the count progressed and was only 14
behind at the finish. A recount con-
firmed Dohring’s narrow win. In Rock-
hampton Gardner (Lab.), with 4445 votes,
exactly equalled the combined score of
his two opponents, Pilbeam (Lib.L 4379,
and Kelly (Ind.), 66. Under first-past-
the-post that gave Gardner the seat by
66 votes.
• •
N. S. Wales Education Minister Hef-
fron has a stock reply to requests for
school amenities, repairs, etc. The work
can’t be done because “sufficient funds
have not been made available to the
State by way of loan-allocation by the
Commonwealth.” This cowardly attempt
AVAILABLE FOR
THREE YEARS FROM
MARCH S, 1956.
MACQUARIE- STREET
SYDNEY
Given unconditionally
BY THE PEOPLE OF N SW. TO
allow the CahillGovernment
to continue running
ITS DECREPIT AND
DANGEROUS RAILWAYS
WITH GREAT INEFFICIENCY
AND great cost and
INCONVENIENCE TO THE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC
MACQUARIE-STREET
SYDNEY
N.B.G.R
RETURN
TICKET
RETURN-TICKET—REMEMBER?
to pass the buck is wearing a trifle thin.
Country-party leader Bruxner quoted an
instance where Heffron had used the ex-
cuse in explaining why an Oslo-lunch
canteen couldn’t be provided for a high-
school. Bruxner continued:
How on earth are we to retain the
prestige and importance of Parliament if
a responsible Minister makes such a state-
ment? It is not right, of course, to blame
the Commonwealth, because the Loan
Council carves up the loan funds, not the
Comibonwealth Government. Many
dozens of similar communications have
gone out, and are going out every day,
yet we allude to 100 years of responsible
government in N.S.W., and its wonderful
achievements. Where have we got today?
Someone might be unkind enough to say
that N.S.W. is stone, motherless broke.
I do not say so, but Ministers have said
it, and their letters say so. That sort of
thing .is giving the State away.
Of course, Heffron’s not the only Cahill
Minister using the Federal Government
as a scapegoat. “Canberra won’t give us
the money,” is the stock excuse for
failure to provide roads, bridges, reser-
voirs, hospitals and homes. But it’s a
sure bet that if the Cahills decide the
time has come for a rise in Parliamentary
salaries, lack of loan funds won’t stop
them.
• •
Self-serve petrol-pumps to provide a
24-hour service will become legal in Vic-
toria from today. Proprietors will be re-
quired to get the approval of local coun-
cils before installation and safety regula-
tions must be observed.
• •
Ceylon’s new Prime Minister, S.W.R.D.
Bandaranaike, after saying he would
take up the question of bases while in
London for the Prime Ministers’ confer-
ence, added that he “had not addressed
his mind” to the suggestion that bases
in Ceylon and Singapore should be re-
garded as Commonwealth bases and not
British bases. He was not surprised that
Britain wished to retain control of the
external and internal defences of Singa-
pore ; he surmised that his own attitude
on British bases had contributed to the
stiffening of the British attitude to Singa-
pore. He felt there should be a com-
promise in Singapore, as “Singapore was
vitally essential to Commonwealth
defence.”
• •
A calamitous tragedy has overtaken
Westralia according to the chief of Perth’s
Swan Brewery: beer-consumption in the
past 10 weeks was 400,000 gallons lower
than for the same period last year! It’s
hardly the sort of news to stagger the
State!
• •
“Ardoyne”: Discussing legislation to
prevent overcrowding on Melbourne
trams and buses, a Tramways Em-
ployees’ Union delegate asserted that
some inspectors used shoehorns to get
passengers on trams at peak periods.
Can’t say I’ve seen them used to get
passengers on, but they’d be useful to
help one get out of the innards of a
packed tram. But what puzzles me is:
If the trams aren’t a paying proposition
when they’re overcrowded, how the
dickens will they pay their way when only
comfortably full?
• •
More flying Australians! Last year
the domestic airlines flew record totals
of passengers, freight and mails, and the
total of ton-miles of freight flown per
head of population—3B.6 million —was a
world record. Passengers totalled
2,041,013, and they flew 843.5 million
passenger-miles.
• •
In a major political gaffe J. F. Cairns,
“Labor” M.H.R. for Yarra, has emerged
with his face a bright crimson. His
earlier experience as a policeman and a
university-lecturer in Melbourne possibly
informed him that a favorite method of
Opposition sniping is to ask nasty ques-
tions about the use of Government cars.
Therefore he placed on the notice-paper
a question relating to a Customline with
a Commonwealth number-plate which
was seen “waiting recently in a street in
Richmond, Victoria, for two hours.” He
asked who was using the car, whether any
“Labor” member had used it since
December 10 and if he himself had ever
had this or any other car allocated for
his use in Richmond. Last week the
answer was circulated. It admitted that
the car had waited in a street, “but not for
two hours.” The user of the car had
been Mrs. Calwell, and since December
10 the Deputy-Leader of the Opposition,
Mr. A. A. Calwell, had used the car in
the course of his official duties.
• •
Where’s the fire? The Chief of the
N.S.W. Board of Fire Commissioners
refuses to retire and the Government is
planning legislative action to make him
do so. The Chief Officer of the Fire
Brigade wants to retire and the board is
trying to dissuade him from doing so.
• ©
Dr. Evatt on the Stevedoring Bill:
I can see clash after clash in this. It is
almost provocative, almost calculated to
cause clash after clash, because the water-
side workers’ very future is involved.
As Supply Minister Beale pointed out
the bill is based almost entirely on the
unanimous recommendations of the Tait
Committee, which included a trade-union
representative. Could anything be more
provocative, more calculated to cause
clash after clash, than Evatt’s own
speech? It almost amounted to an invita-
tion to the watersiders to make as much
trouble as they pleased, with the
knowledge that the “Labor” party would
support them. The very next day a mass-
meeting of wharfies in Melbourne called
upon the union’s Federal council to do
whatever was necessary to make the new
law unworkable.


SOCIETY
AN D IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
VZOUNG Ron didn’t go much on read-
-*• ing. At fifteen, the only literature
that interested him was in the racing-
pages of Friday and Monday papers.
He had an elder brother to place his
“commissions” for him down at the
betting-club on Saturday mornings. So
when the class had to write a Book
Week slogan, not more than ten words,
and referring to books, no one expected
much from Ron. But Ron’s entry
showed that even he had learned some-
thing: You can’t beat the books. —
“Pevin.”
♦Jt ♦£♦
“Stan”: Hundreds of Melbourne taxi-
drivers converged on Flinders-street
station to demonstrate their protest over
any further granting of licences, claim-
ing that they could more than cope with
present peak-period transport. All cabs
were quickly snapped-up. Officials
agreed that in future more consideration
would be given to applicants.
* *
“Rimutuka”: The show must go on:
Brisbane City Hall clock had internal
troubles lately, and while the technicians
got to work, one man sat by the hands
for almost two hours, painstakingly
turning them every sixty seconds!
♦♦♦ *
“Pip Tok”: A trilingual confab in a
Westralian bank helped a Polish migrant
solve a financial problem when sign-
language failed. The Pole couldn’t speak
English, but understood Russian. The
"Listen, Cynthia, do you hear the sea ?”
banker, who hadn’t even a nodding
acquaintance with Polish ‘or Russian,
called up a junior who could speak
Russian and understood Polish. The
junior duly interpreted Polish into
Russian for himself, and from Russian
into English for his boss, and a simple
business-transaction was arranged.
attract only the more sophisti-
cated professional bums. The
latest in this category entered
the main body of the office sing-
ing heartily, the lyrics of his
song encouraging all within
earshot to “smile and be happy
all day.” An employee return-
ing from a too-liquid lunch, I
decided. The singing grew
louder, and stopped outside
my door . . . then a knock.
Another decision—l wasn’t
in. The voice decided other-
wise and materialised into a
presentable young stranger.
“Good afternoon, sir,” it cooed
in a Cockney accent, “I’m very
pleased to meet you. Isn’t it
a lovely day? Have you a dona-
tion for the happy street-
singer?” My flabbergasted
“No” brought a quick reply.
“That’s all right, sir, perfectly
all right. I’m a professional
singer, you know not a
beggar.” And off it flounced
to the next office, where the
formula was repeated. I’ve
since heard that the same gent,
has spread happiness through
several large country towns.
At a rough guess I’d say he
would net at least a fiver a day—that is,
50 embarrassed victims at 2s. each. Not
quite as much as Johnnie Ray, but it’s a
start.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Jake”: During the elections Premier
Gair’s missus, broadcasting, referred to
Queenslanders as “My people.” Don’t
tell me Labor’s turning Royalist!
<s*
“Clem”: Why all the rush for luxury
hotels down south? Melbourne’s Civic
Fathers called for tenders throughout the
world for the building of one on the
long-debated site of the old Eastern
Market in Bourke-street. Geelong fol-
lowed smartly with plans for one down
Corio way. Now Bendigo announces a
£2-million effort . . . Let’s hope they
won’t be opening their doors after the
horse is gone.
♦!+
“Sarj”: The Matson Navigation Co.
has decided to replace mess-stewards
with waitresses on the new Mariposa and
Monterey when they go into action on
the Pacific run—preferably with good see-
eBs-
* * *
“D.W.M.”: Alderman Groom, Lord
Mayor of Brisbane, declares that the city
has “service-station hysteria.” Applica-
tions for petrol-station permits are being
submitted at the rate of about 15-a-week ;
and there is an average of one station
to every 325 motor-vehicles in Greater
Brisbane. Figures for comparable cities
in the United States show one station
to every 500 cars. Ratepayers complain
of the despoiling of residential areas, and
urge the council to restrict permits. Mr.
Moran, president of the Queensland
Automobile Chamber of Commerce,
advocates a licensing board representing
oil-companies, R.A.C.Q., and the Auto-
mobile Chamber, with a council chair-
man.
♦Jt <s*
“Calcutt”: On a hot, dusty day in
Rabaul in 1922 the mail-steamer and the
“Augustus”: An invoice from a wood-
t coal-and-coke-merchant showed an item:
\ “1 Ton Wood (Short).” Sometimes sus-
pected ; rarely detected; very rarely
confessed.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Willpar”: What is there about “Mac-
Hoots” that makes him so irresistible to
the common bar-fly (B. 6/6/’56)? I
motor-yacht Speejacks had reached har-
bor together—Speejacks after a leisurely
voyage from Australia —and the post-
office was crammed with people all
hungry for mail. The Indonesian clerk
emptied the C-pigeonhole and dealt out
the articles as if playing cards. When-
ever the young man at my elbow was
handed a bulky envelope he cursed; but
he smiled and softly said “That’s better! ”
when handed a letter of ordinary size.
The young man was the late Dale Collins,
then diarist of Mr. Gowen’s small ship
Speejacks, bound for a world tour; his
curses were for rejected manuscripts, his
“that’s-betters” for publishers’ cheques.
He made a lot of money later by writing,
but used to say that the best service his
publishers gave him was good stock-
exchange tips.
❖ ♦>
“Moorapi”: Lotteries were in full swing
in England in the 17th and 18th centuries,
prizes ranging from a pair of ducks or
a length of dress-material to big money.
Fortunetellers did lucrative business in
imparting lucky-number information to
clients —as witness an advertisement in
“The Post Boy” of September 27, 1711,
of the daddy of all “consultations” :
This is to give notice that ten shillings
over and above the market price will be
given for ticket numbered 132 in the
£1,500,000 lottery by Nath. Cliff, at the
Bible and Three Crowns in Cheapside.
Lotteries gained such a grip on the
national economy that they were banned
by Parliament in 1826. But the British
Museum and other public buildings were
repaired from the funds of England’s
first big sweep, which was drawn at the
main entrance to St. Paul’s Cathedral!
❖ ❖
“N.T.”: He’d been down handing vote-
cards at the polling-booth at Cairns all
morning. Came noon, and the little
woman went to him in a taxi with a
flask of tea and a nibble of ham. “I’m
taking them down to my husband,” she
explained to the taxi-driver; “he’s been
on the booths all morning.” The taxi-
driver clucked admiringly. “By cripes,
lady,” he said warmly, “you must be a
wonderful sort of wife. All I ever get
from my old woman when I’ve been on
the booze all morning is an ear-bashing.”
❖ ❖ *>
“Geep”: Trying-out her brand-new
driver’s licence, my neighbor was a model
of correctness as she drove past at a
speed of less than 30 m.p.h., well over on
the left side of the road, her full attention
on the job. Two youngsters, barely past
graduation from tricycles, rode their two-
wheelers in the opposite direction. They
were so far on their correct side of the
road that they were almost on my front
lawn. “Keep well over,” one warned
his pal; “you can never trust these
women drivers.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Cash Count”: I know that self-service
grocery-stores are stale news nowadays,
but I had my first experience of one when
Mrs. C.C. was laid-up recently. Burdened
with a shopping-list as long as my arm,
I picked up a basket and ventured
through the turnstile gate. First item on
my list read “£lb. Tip-Top tea.” I
blundered up and down aisles looking for
tea, found the right shelf eventually, and
then could not see any “Tip-Top.”
Grabbed the nearest brand, and started
the search again, this time for “1 bot.
Phenyle.” One hour later, I had more-or-
less located half the items on the list, and
had saved possibly Is. 6d. I like to think
my time is worth a little more than
eighteenpence-an-hour. I paid for my
purchases, dumped them into the car, and
took my list into an old-fashioned
grocer’s. When I emerged five-minutes
later, all items ticked —and the correct
brands —I could appreciate the legend on
the old-fashioned man’s window: “No
Self-Service Here. We are happy to serve
you.”
❖ ❖ »>
“Lochiel”: Noted on a stroll round
our department-store: tartan lunch-
baskets, tartan trays, tartan tea-caddy,
tartan plastic toilet-bags and —most
daring of all —a natty tartan fly-spray!
And who wouldn’t be sprayed with
Scotch?
❖ ❖ *;♦
“Macquarie”: Every big job or works
now has its “Johnnie Ray”—a fellow
whose habitual “crying” irritates his
workmates. Likewise the bloke known
as “A.P.C.”—aches, pains and complaints.
Now I have struck a cove dubbed
“Thallium” and another bitterly labelled
“London Fog.” Thallium, it was
explained to me, is a slow-moving dope.
The bloke entitled “London Fog” is not
a Cockney; he earned his sobriquet
because, when there is anything heavy to
be moved, he never lifts.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Kayaitch”: Anyone desiring to
sleep on a park bench, with a roof over
his head, may do so in Brisbane. But
take care of your clothes. Those tents
are erected over the seats only after the
city council has done a job of painting.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Alpha Beta”: A returned Digger and
his wife, who jointly own a house being
paid for through the War Service Homes
Commission by monthly payments of £l7,
brought in at the end of April only
£l6 9s. “In the football-season,” said
the wife, “we reduce the monthly amount
by eleven-shillings to allow us money
for the big match every Saturday.”
♦♦♦ *i* %
“Renraw”: A glamorous young
mother sat in a city tram indulging her
baby of a few months, who responded
with affectionate pats on its mother’s
face. Encouraged by the interest of
fellow-passengers, the young mother con-
tinued with a broad smile. Then Babe
placed fist in pretty Mum’s mouth, and
withdrew her lower dental-plate. The
denture retrieved, the mother, with infant,
hurriedly alighted at the next stop.
FARE DEAL
“N. S. Wales fares are to rise 25 per cem.
or more in Sydney in July, but in the country
the increase will be staggered.”
The New South Wales increase in fares
Will leave the city traveller haggard,
But in the country, it appears,
It is the fares that will be staggered.
Well, we’ve been told, we should have
known
That as ye sow, so shall ye reap it :
When trams break up and trains break
down
The fares themselves should be
decrepit.
Oh, Fares that, like some drunken men,
Astonish those whom they appal,
You stagger but to rise again,
And never have been known to fall!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


MY disbelief in those rubber-strap
things hanging untidily behind so
many cars to prevent, so the owners
believe, car-sickness on the part of the
occupants has been rather rudely shaken.
The latest convert is the driver of a Can-
berra road-roller, which traverses the
capital’s streets at a maximum of a mile
an hour. It certainly jolts a bit in the
potholes, and perhaps this causes the
same symptoms as are apparent in a
£lO,OOO car doing ninety over the Hume
Highway. Faith seems to be the main
thing, whether it’s in rubber-straps or
seasick-tablets.—“Mugga Way.”
»> *l* ❖
“Ardoyne”: Going to church can be
an expensive business if you happen to
be an absent-minded hotel-licensee, as the
host of the Bendigo (Vic.) pub found to
his cost. For forgetting to display a
notice at the hotel stating who was in
charge during his absence, he was fined
two-pounds in the Bendigo City Court.
5+ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pevin”: At one of the nationwide
quizzes the contestant was a boy of
thirteen, and because the climax to the
show was a kind of gamble the juvenile
had to be in the care of an adult. Every
precaution was taken. The compere
repeatedly made it clear that the boy’s
mother was with him. To emphasise the
point, making it clear that there was not
even a hint or irregularity, the lad was
invited to introduce Mum to the listening
audience: “Ladies and gentlemen, this
is me mum, Miss . . . .” But it turned
out to be the boy, and not his mother,
who had made the mistake.
“Wulworra”: Sydney
newsp ape r s encounter
quick-change artists who
never trod the boards.
F’rinstance, the “Sun”
ran a long tale about “an
American sailor, aged
24,” who had been
rescued after being
adrift for two days in a
“schooner” lent him by
“a friend at Potts Point”
and to point his
nationality he was made
to say of his rescuers,
“Brother, I was sure glad
to see those boys.” A
few hours later, in the
Sunday edition of the
same paper, the Yank
was transformed into “an
English seaman,” his age
was reduced to 19, and
the “schooner” had be-
come a “yacht.” Just to
round matters off, the
American-Englishman who had been
“lent” the schooner-yacht was reported to
have been charged, by hard-hearted
police, with having pinched it.
An exhibition of Grenadier
Guards’ uniforms, weapons and relics,
covering the regiment’s 300-year history,
will be shown in Australia after the
London display in the Throne Room, St.
James’s Palace. The Queen, Colonel-im
Chief of the Guards, opened the exhibi-
tion on May 30. Grenadier Guards have
nine tunic-buttons, equally spaced. Scots
Guards wear nine buttons in groups of
three, the Coldstreams have 10 set in
pairs. Irish have 10 in two groups of
four and a pair, the Welsh have 10 in two
lots of fives. Grenadiers have white
plumes in their bearskins ; Coldstreams
red ; Scots none, Irish blue and Welsh
green and white.
❖
“Maitri”: This year Empire Day was
celebrated with considerable explosions
of crackers at the same time as similar
fireworks were going their hardest in
many parts of the Far East —but for a
different reason. May 24, 1956, happened
to fall on the eve of Vesak—the full
moon of the fifth month —the time of the
year when the Buddha was born ; when
he attained enlightenment under the
Bodhi (wisdom) -tree at Gaya and when
he entered Parinirvana at the age of 80.
This year’s Vesak festival makes the
2500th anniversary of the Founder’s
death.
*s• £♦
“Kate”: I was visiting our doctor and
remarked on the fact that I was the only
woman among a waiting-room full of
men. “Most unusual,” I said. “Not
unusual at all,” said the M.D. “I get all
my male patients from now until the
end of the financial year; my female
patients from Christmas until school
starts.”
♦♦♦ ***
“Aeolus”: During the Adelaide blitz
on taxis plying for hire in unauthorised
areas a licensing-inspector and his wit-
ness-assistant in plain clothes hailed an
offending cab and asked to be driven out
“ Please, Mummy, I wish you'd let Ronnie and me fight our own battles."
“That must be Taurus."
of town to the Showgrounds Hall. It
seemed a cinch as they climbed into the
cab, but the inspector noticed he was
being closely scrutinised in the rear-view
mirror. Arriving, the inspector tendered
the fare on the clock. Waving him aside
majestically, the driver said, “Forget it,
brother; this is on the house,” thus
avoiding the final link in the evidence
upon which proceedings could be taken.
❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: A visiting Canadian
clergyman appeared in Perth Traffic
Court because a sign erected by the
Police Traffic Branch in Cathedral-
avenue, which runs between St. George’s
Cathedral on one side and the W.A.
Lands Department and other Government
offices on the other, read: “This Area
Is For Ministers’ Cars Only.” His mis-
take brought him a ten-bob fine for park-
ing and a summons for trespass from the
Lands Department. When the circum-
stances were explained in court, the
summons was withdrawn and official
apologies were tendered and accepted.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Uncle Glue”: “Jasby’s” dating of the
“cigarette-hoax” back to 1913 (B.
30/5/’56) recalls the apricot-seed hoax
of about 1902. At that time word got
around that a jam-factory in Sydney
would buy unlimited quantities of apricot-
seeds. There were plenty of these to be
gathered by us trusting kids and hawked
in vain to the factory. The jam-factory
people rode the hoax quietly; the kids
got some consolation from making them-
selves whistles. You grind a section of
seed away on the kerbstone, and extract
the kernel. By placing the opening upper-
most against the lower lip and blowing
downwards they were able to whistle
their way homeward, much wiser.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J. 8.”: A notice I saw while motoring
in N.S.W.: “Cafe —Home-made Cakes —
Psychologist in Attendance.” How
come?
* * ❖
“Arthur R.”: For years experts have
been conducting tests of a telegraph-
system which will dispense with the dot-
and-dash man, but the high cost of the
equipment has temporarily saved the
Morse chaps from the scrapheap.
In the new method, the telegram
is punched-out on paper-tape on
a machine like a typewriter. Each
town in Australia is allotted a distinguish-
ing symbol. This symbol precedes the
message on the tape and operates auto-
matic switches which give the office-of-
destination through-circuit with the dis-
patching office. The telegram is then
sent direct, without any intermediate
handling. All the channels must be per-
fect or the telegram may finish at, say,
Oodnadatta (S.A.) instead of at Yackan-
dandah (Vic.).
❖ ❖ «&
“Opsimath”: The grocer in the little
Yarraside township just groced away, to
outward appearances, like any other of
his useful fraternity. A taciturn old cove
—until the day I was in the shop when
his wife came out from the back-roOms
to demand: “Where has Hodge got to?”
The name stirred an old recollection, and
on impulse I picked up the big tom who
was wiping his nose on my trouser-leg and
handed him over to the good lady. The
dispenser of sugar and spice said nothing,
but there was something expectant in the
way he looked at me —or was there?
“Hodge, sir,” I said, “is a fine cat.” He
quoted back, without hesitation: “Why,
yes, sir, but I have had cats whom I liked
better!” Followed an inspection of the
grocerial library, as well stocked as its
owner’s mind, as I have since learned to
my profit. Incidentally, this dinkum
Aussie Hodge, unlike Dr. Johnson’s pet,
does not get oysters for his dinner.
❖ *X* ❖
“Bush-cat”: The overseas car-market
is becoming saturated —very different
from the first few years after the war,
when I inspected a used car which the
salesman wouldn’t sell to me because I
didn’t have another car to trade-in. A
buyer in Victoria who had been waiting
months for a new car had one delivered
without a spare tyre. The spare was to
come along “next week.” Each succeeding
week the buyer came in to the agents with
the inquiry, “That spare tyre come yet?”
Then he got his first puncture. So he
jacked-up the agent’s car, took a wheel
off it and put a block under the axle, and
went to the agent with the usual inquiry,
ready to answer the usual reply with
“That’s a pity, because you’ll want it
before you go home.” The agent said,
“Yes, it came today: bring your car
around and I’ll put it in the boot for
you.”
* ❖
“Rimutuka”: The narrow - skirted
creature in caramel and black stood study-
ing her race-programme, handbag tucked
underarm, her frock following every
curve. The handbag dropped to the
ground. Desperately she tried bending
from the waist, then the knees, even did a
curtsy act. No good. A woman near by
picked up the handbag and returned it,
with a curious look. The shapely one
queried, “Well, could you in this frock?”
“Rupeer”: A dear old lady arrived
at one of our larger airports and
demanded to board the DC6 before the
calling-on of the other passengers. Once
aboard she settled herself comfortably,
tried the numerous gadgets, and then
announced she would be unable to travel
that day as she did not have the “feel of
the aircraft.” This went on for some
time, but the “feeling” eventually came
good and the lady flew away.
❖ ❖ ❖
“T.M.”: Whatever arguments favor
coeducation the Transport Department
seems to ignore. “Boys in the front car,
girls in the back,” runs a notice on a
Sydney schoolchildren’s tram this week.
When coeducation was tried in an Aus-
tralian high school, it met, appropriately
perhaps, with mixed results. » One con-
sequence still amuses an agreeably-
surprised family. Thirteen-year-old Janet
was hopelessly “in love” with fourteen-
year-old Steven. After a month of
“Steven” for breakfast, lunch and dinner,
Mum and Dad were murderous. Then,
suddenly, Steven was not a subject. “What
happened to that boy you were always
talking about?” they asked. “Oh, himV
was the scornful reply. “He flunked the
algebra exam., and Sir called him an idiot.
He is, too. It was easy.”
A HEARTFELT CRY
“It was disturbing to see the Australians hav-
ing fielding-practice for more than half-an-hour
and exposing their hands to unnecessary damage
It would have been much wiser to limit
practice to gentle activity. —Cable from
England.
O reckless ones, why must
You toss the ball about ?
Reflect that fearful danger you are
facing !
You might stop one on the crust,
Or your chest may take a clout
Should you misjudge its flight while
you are racing.
Do be careful of those mitts
That gently guide the blade,
Deflecting ball—you hope—towards
the pickets.
Keep them in your pockets; it's
Vital! Try and be afraid!
Or you may never stroll towards the
wickets.
Pause and think, before you try
Stopping that six-stitcher, please !
The leather’s very rough, your hands
so soft, sir.
Let it, if it’s fast, go by,
Or you’ll cause us great unease ;
You might tear fibres if you leap
aloft, sir.
Best to stay in your hotel;
Sit in safety in your chair.
You’ll then suffer no mark upon a
finger.
There’s the sound of dinner-bell
If you must catch things. You’ll scare
Supporters if upon, the sward you
linger.
Skipper Johnson, come to grips
With the problem, we implore!
Set Keith and Colin practising with
tatting.
They might drop one in the slips —
Well, so what ? How can they score
If horrid practice-bruise prevents
their batting ?
Tests are “battles” (say our scribes) —
Casualties you must avoid.
Inhibit players' adventurous pro-
clivity.
Never mind about the jibes
That they dent like celluloid —
Make practice on this tour “gentle
activity.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
m.
IQEAdN
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or ar y authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
First C.O. of the new R.A.A.F.
Aviation Medicine School at Point Cook
(Vic.), Wing-Commander W. L. Rait
was born in the Speck in 1909, collected
B.Sc. at Hobart University in 1932 and
M.Sc. at Adelaide in 1935. After tutor-
ing and research in science and mathe-
matics, he served in the A.I.F. from
1939 to 1942, turned to medicine, and
graduated from Melbourne in 1947.
With the R.A.A.F. since 1948 he has
served as M.O. in Malaya and with the
Aircraft Research and Development
Unit at Laverton (Vic.), going on to
the R.A.F. Institute of Aviation Medicine
at Farnborough (Eng.). The new school
will give courses to R.A.A.F. personnel
on medical matters peculiar to aviation.
• •
Professor Arnold Joseph Toynbee,
visiting Dyason Lecturer under the aegis
of the Royal Institute of International
Affairs (of which he was Director of
Studies from 1925 till his retirement last
year), gave the impression in an informal
chat that he accepts with admirable
philosophy his job of philosophising, and
HISTORY
that, while his historian mind dwells a
lot on the ancient Greek civilisation (he
began another tome on this subject as
relaxation on the voyage to Australia),
that same mind is also keenly sensitive
to the international relations of today.
Early education at Winchester, he
went on to Balliol, Oxford, returning
years later to become an Oxford tutor
and Fellow before achieving world fame
as Research Professor of International
History at London University (history
was in his blood —his mother was in the
first class of history-students at
Cambridge). During the first war he was
in the political division of the Foreign
Office, and was a member of the British
delegation at both Paris peace conferences
(1919 and 1946).
Among the swag of books he has
passed on to the printers—nearly all
history—is his 10-volume A Study of
History (about three-million words), which
he proposes revising after he returns to
England. A typically professorial touch
in this man who is in many ways so
unprofessorial is that, when his Doctorate
of Civil Laws was mentioned in an inter-
view, the Prof, seemed extremely hazy as
to whether he had ever been so honored.
Professor Toynbee’s son Philip is the
well-known novelist who is also foreign-
correspondent of London “Observer.” His
sister Jocelyn is Laurence Professor of
Classical Archaeology at Cambridge.
• •
Norman Myer’s knighthood was not
conferred too early in life, although he
has been an outstanding Melburnian
for nearly two decades, like his uncle, the
late Sidney Myer. The Myer’s outfit is
one of the best, as well as one of the
largest, employers in Victoria, and Myer
gifts to music, Red Cross, the University
and charities have been frequent; the
latest, a £lOO,OOO music-bowl for a public
outdoor-theatre, was announced a few
weeks ago.
Norman Myer went off to the first big
war when he was 17, and the difficulty
he had fitting himself back into civil
life —he was delivering newspapers in a
ramshackle aircraft for a doubt
prompted the generous treatment in the
re-settlement of the Myer servicemen
after the second war. He spends most of
his days in his big shop, but he is a direc-
tor of 20 other shows, protagonist of the
City Development Association, and a
much more gregarious fellow than Uncle
Sidney ever was able to be.
• •
“Mid-on”: Maurice Tate, dead in Eng-
land at 61, was noted for three things—
the ability to dismiss cheaply the greatest
of batsmen, a permanent geniality and
broad grin and an outsize paij of feet,
which needed size-15 cricket-boots. He
was the son of Fred Tate, who played
in one Test only, the fourth against Aus-
tralia in 1902. (In that Test, won by
Australia by three runs, Fred Tate
dropped a vital catch, and was execrated
by Englishmen for loss of the Ashes.)
Maurice far outshone his father. He
bowled fast-mediums which had terrific
lift and swing. In 1924, in his first Aus-
tralian tour, he took 38 wickets in the
series, which stood as the record for an
England-Australia Test-series till beaten
in 1953 (by one wicket) by Alec Bedser,
who, also fast-medium, is often compared
to Tate. Tate came to Australia again
in 1928 and 1932, though on that last
“bodyline” tour Jardine had no great use
for him. In 39 Tests Tate took 155
wickets ; he played first-class cricket be-
tween 1912 and 1937, eight times notching
the double of 100 wickets and 1000 runs
in an English season. A month or so ago
Tate umpired the match at Arundel
Castle with which the Australians opened
their present tour.
• •
“Tom”: Many clergymen have been
cricketers of standing, but a baseballer-
cleric is a rctra avis. Sydney has the Only
specimen in captivity in Australia —the
Rev. Bruce (“Rastus”) Molesworth, of
Balgowlah, of the Anglican faith. A
lead-off batter and speedy base-runner,
he plays for Lane Cove. Study and
church-duties have kept him from repre-
sentative games.
• •
“Bullswool”: Four students from
Singapore-Malaya, aged 19 to 24, made
Frank Bedford, of Elsternwick (Vic.),
their guest at a ten-course Chinese meal
they cooked themselves. Highlight was
a mouth-watering dish of chicken and
mushrooms. Bedford is letting them his
house for the next 15 months, he being
one of three Australian chemists chosen
to go to the U.S.A. under the terms of
the Pfeiffer Foundation Travelling
Scholarship.
• •
“S.C.R.”: Near the tiny south-east
Queensland township of Brooweena,
ringed by wide stands of valuable hard-
wood, a man patiently tends 4000 pine-
trees. Tal Lahey, local sawmiller, began
his hobby back in 1948, and now
colonnades of tall, straight American and
Queensland pines thrive on the five-acre
hillside-plot surrounding his home.
Although past the 50-mark, he does
threequarters of the work connected with
the trees, in addition to his full-time
manual job at the mill. Photographers
are welcome, but suggest a snap of the
pines with Tal Lahey in it and there’s
nothing doing. Friends’ queries as to
whether the trees ultimately will be fodder
for the mill whining lethally near by
make him wince. “They’re my hobby.”
It wasn’t easy getting the plot started.
Hares nibbled off the early plants, and
the soil was so hard it had to be leavened
with sawdust. Now watering the
“forest” takes 300,000 gals. at a time
from the picturesque lagoon a short
distance away.
• •
Charles R. Davidson, who has passed
on in Sydney at 65, was the first and only
life-member -of the council of the
N.R.M.A.: the unique honor was con-
ferred in recognition of his services both
as councillor —he was the longest-
serving of any member —and as a presi-
dent in the period of the big motor-
ing organisation’s greatest expansion.
Managing-director of both Edward Fay
and Joe Gardiner, the shoe-retailers,
Davidson was a lifelong follower of
Rugby Union; president of Randwick
club for many years.
• •
“N.A.8.”: Gone into retirement after
42 years’ service in the Australian
Methodist Church, the Rev. William
Green, chairman of Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Synod, served in Papua, Fiji (two terms)
and New Zealand, besides N.S.W.
country centres. In his second term in
Fiji a new constitution for the Fijian
Church was adopted largely because of
his efforts. The constitution has become
a model for Government policy as well
as for the Church.
• •
Hung-up his football-boots, Footscray
(Melb.) Australian Rules star Charlie
Sutton, who began with Footscray in
1942, and played 173 games for the club ;
representing Victoria several times. In
1954 he led the Bulldogs to their only
premiership. Now 32, he’ll continue as
coach of ’Scray.
• •
Glen Gardner Pearson, getting the
Agricultural portfolio after only five
years in the S.A. Parliament —he won the
Flinders seat in 1951 —is, at 49, the
second-youngest member of Playford’s
Cabinet—and the youngest is Pearson’s
cousin, Attorney-General Colin Rowe.
Pearson (here limned) has been farming
AGRICULTURE
on Eyre Peninsula for 21 years. Every
weekend he flies to Port Lincoln as the
first leg of the hop home to his farm
at Cockaleechie, 50 miles further on,
where he can cast an expert eye over the
crops of wheat and barley and the fat-
lambs his two sons raise. He was
R.A.A.F. in the last war.
With the imminent approach of hordes
of Olympic athletes, their trainers and
supporters, from a score of different
cultures, hoteliers have become some-
thing more than important in Melbourne.
The palates of the sportsmen are not
only traditionally determined in a hun-
dred different fashions, as with all of us,
but they demand different dishes at
different times according to the stages of
their training, and religion, custom, holy-
days and even politics still further compli-
cate the situation.
Brigadier Elliott, head of the catering
committee, has posted his emissaries over
land and sea to get first-hand acquaint-
ance with the tasty subject, the menus
FOOD
they have collected in a dozen lingos
would fill a fat book, and nine-tenths of
the ingredients are obtainable in Aus-
tralia.
A member of the committee who hasn’t
had to leave Melbourne to get experience
of foreign food-tastes is John Clifford
Carrodus, here depicted. As g.-m. of
Chevron, the streamlined caravanserai
on St. Kilda-road, he gets all the
experience needed daily. The hotel is
at present under partial occupation by
Don Cossacks and is completely booked
out for the Games, with 40 per cent,
coming from the U.S., 30 per cent, from
N.Z., 10 per cent, from Europe and the
rest Australians. Carrodus has left Mel-
bourne only once, when he went with
the 17th Brigade to the Middle East.
The day after war ended he joined
Chevron, and was appointed manager a
few years later. An associate-member
of the International and California
State Hotel Associations, born Mel-
bourne, 1918, educated Essendon High.
• •
Into the Silence:— ,
In Sydney, at 98, William J. Sutherland,
pioneer trade-union official. A foundation-
member of the A.L.P. in N.S.W., he split his
70 years of toil fairly evenly between the
sea and the clothing-trade—he was a life-
member of both unions concerned.
At Sassafras (Vic.), at 60, Mel Morris, well-
known A.B.C. sporting-commentator. He was
one of the team which gave (in the 1934 series)
the first ball-to-ball description of Test-matches
in England—the broadcasts then being done in
an Australian studio from cable-messages
received and with a pencil tapping a cigarette-
case to simulate bat hitting ball. He served
in World War I, and for a few years thereafter
was a topline footballer, with Richmond, in the
Victorian Football League. In 1926 he was
Richmond’s captain-coach. He was noted in
Melbourne for his football-broadcasts; in the
last war his broadcasts were relayed up to the
Islands. He also regularly broadcast the Stawell
Gift, including this year’s race.
In Sydney, at 82, Henry Robert Currie, one
of the city’s oldest practising solicitors —he was
admitted at the turn of the century. Past-
president of both Manly and Warringah Bowl-
ing Clubs.
In Perth, at 66, Richard Clyde Bone, long
associated with racing in Westralia and Malaya.
After being secretary of the Kalgoorlie Racing
Club, he went to Malaya as steward in 1926;
returning two years later, he was appointed
stipendiary-steward of the W.A.T.C., and sat
as chairman of stewards for several years. In
the ’thirties he was one of the three A.J.C.
stewards at Randwick, but went back to
Malaya just before World War 11, as chief
stipe for the Straits Settlements Racing Associa-
tion.


STADIUM-FAN JURYMAN


ABORIGINALITIES
NEW LATITUDE
I looked this night through marvellous glass
On Saturn and the lunar curve,
1 viewed the signs of heaven pass,
And felt the throbbing like a nerve
Of stars alive in their design
Upon the swirl of galaxy;
The eyes, the telescope are mine—
But what relation light to me?
What is the light, more calm and cool
Than ever wing of dove, or snows . . .
That beams precise and beautiful
Through evening’s early span of rose?
That whitens shores though sable falls
Along archaic stone and seas,
First gleam on Athens, towers and walls,
On man’s forlorn antiquities?
Flesh-bound, the grave and peering ghost
A powerful latitude discovers,
The planets in an urgent host
Release it from the spell of lovers . . .
Release it from all human thought,
From melancholy and from rage;
Orion’s measured wisdom sought,
And strength from Jupiter the sage . . .
Around the globe, upon a mount,
The mirrors of astronomy
Reflect vibrations from the fount,
Flash drama from eternity.
Around the world the fragile men
Forget a moment self and food,
Look upward from the brutish den,
Feel stellar glory in the blood.
The nebulas are clouds and ice,
The meteors in orbits trail
Across the black their bold device,
And Venus in immortal veil
Draws the spirit out of time
Toward a lonely zone in space
Where only vision dares to climb,
Where mind remembers good, and grace.
My substance learned the weight of air,
I fled through subtle glass, through night;
Of earth yet more than earthly there,
I read life’s origin from light;
And over realms of silence blown —
Discovered, suddenly, my own.
N.z. Paula Hanger Birch.
UP to about 10 years back that sec-
tion of the old N.S.W. Western
Highway from Lapstone Hill to beyond
Blaxland was Mitchell’s Pass. S’ Tommy
Mitchell, a fine road-man, planned it,
and did such a good job that it stood-up
to over 90 years of traffic, and is still
used by folks who like a short-cut plus
good views. Now the old pass has been
renamed Wilson Way for one Percy Wil-
son, an amiable fellow and shire-coun-
cillor. When Clive Evatt renamed the
Coal and Candle Creek way for some
Argentinian hero people really sat up.
Yet Mitchell did as much as anyone to
develop Australia, and his pass was re-
named without a bleat. We only want
to remember what no one has had time
to forget.—“Fasdean.”
* * * *
“Alpal”: On a Sydney-Bega tour I
diverted to Bermagui, thinking of its
famed flathead or flounder for lunch.
The one fish-restaurant in the village had
this to say:
Fish? Haven’t had any for three days.
You from Victoria? Trouble with you
people is you’re fish-hungry!
Can give you steak ’n’ eggs.
On to Bega!
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Can you measure the
original length of a decapitated fish? This
unusual poser confronted a Victorian
Supreme Court judge. Fisheries Depart-
ment inspectors had claimed that some
headless sharks in the possession of fisher-
men at Port Albert (Vic.) were under-
sized ; the magistrate who initially heard
the case dismissed it on the ground that
the evidence related only to parts of fishes,
not whole fish. In the superior court the
Crown contended that the magistrate had
not considered the evidence, and that the
exhibits were “fish with a part of them
missing” and not only “a part of fish with
the rest of them missing.” To a layman
this sounds a fine distinction ; but his
Honor upheld the Crown’s contention and
remitted the case back to the magistrate
to determine whether or not the inspec-
tors measured the fish in accordance with
departmental regulations—i.e., from nose
to tail—to ascertain if they were of
legally-permissible size.
* * * *
“Kate”; Calling to see a chap who was
working, I saw the neatest bit of darning
I’ve seen in many a long day. The darn
covered the whole knee of the knobby-
tweed trousers, from seam to seam and
about 6in. in length. Expertly done, and
the chap himself had done it, too ; he
proudly told me so —although I’d guessed
it, for the darning was done in copper-
wire.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Australia is the only
large region in the world without wood-
peckers, but we have an extensive family
of tree-creepers which, though not so
beautiful as the iron-beaked Picidce clan,
are at least as skilful at tree-climbing.
Starting at the bottom of a tree —usually
rough-barked—they will swiftly ascend
in spiral fashion, probing with their
beaks as they go. Active birds, as soon
as one tree is prospected for insect-life
they fly straight off to another. A partial
nonconformist is the brown tree-
creeper, which looks to me as if it is
slowly evolving a different form of
economy. It creeps a lot, certainly—
quite frequently brief forays on fence-
posts—but mostly with the air of one
that doubts if the game has any future.
Quite often a pair of these birds may be
seen feeding on the ground, a somewhat
grievous departure from the famous
family-tradition. Most significant of all,
while the family generally has a tendency
to retreat before closer-settlement, the
brown fellow has come to terms with
man even to sometimes accepting hand-
outs at country homesteads.
* * * *
“Doormat”: All this talk about the
condition of our outback roads makes
me think of a former bishop in the
Carpentaria country who would use
horse-and-buggy for longer distances but
much preferred his bike. His flock in
that far-flung country numbered about
16,000 whites, 7000 Chinese and 35,000
aborigines. And on top of all that
travelling he managed to write books of
sermons, poetry and travel.
* * * *
“Ranji”: A tiger-snake sank his fangs
into my leather legging. Around the spot
there is now a neat circle of faded leather.
"I don't want money for nothing , missus — I'm willing t' do baby-sitting."
No amount of treatment or polishing will
bring any vestige of shine back to that
particular spot.
* * * *
“Broadway”: When W.A.’s Forests
Department wanted mulga-seed to supply
to foreign countries with desert problems
they passed the job over to some natives
out from Kalgoorlie and offered five-bob
an ounce. After the natives had gathered
what pods they could off the trees they
got to work on the fallen seeds with
yandi-dishes. A gin who’s a good hand
"If you've heard this one before , stop me!"
at yandi-ing can separate white-ant eggs
from dirt, and sugar from sand, and a
few of them made short work of the con-
• tract, earning several hundred pounds in
a couple of weeks. The seed still has to
be passed, and it’s bound to be a mixed
bag. There’s not much true mulga in
W.A., but we’ve got a good variety of
trees which are generally classed as mulga
—dry-country trees with the mulga
characteristic of being able to suspend
growth for a while when the going gets
really tough. These trees have created a
buffer, sometimes hundreds of miles thick,
between the agricultural and pastoral
areas and the desert. The world’s big
deserts, like the Sahara, are expanding fast
enough to alarm their owners, and in
some places belts of trees are being
planted as barriers to the spread. In
tropical deserts you wouldn’t beat mulga,
which has done more than hold back our
own deserts —it has even provided pasture
where otherwise nothing edible would
grow.
* * * *
“Mareen”: Barber-shop talk was of
sheep-feed. Smithy said: “Had to take
those wethers off the ninety-acres. Only
had ’em there a week and they started
lambing!” The Trump never batted an
eye. “Yairs,” he said, “feed’s terrific this
year, all right. Y’ know that old creek-
paddock? Well, we put a thousand
wethers in there a fortnight ago, and
when we went up yesterday to look
around them” —turning to his offsider —
“you saw ’em, didn’t you, Blue —those
three calves! ”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: I had never seen a donkey
at closer range than from a circus-seat,
so when the kids sighted one tethered by
the roadside we stopped to have a closer
look. We found that donkeys really do
have a black cross running along the
backbone and shaping behind the
withers; and, adjusting my rather dented
halo, I was striving to recall the long-ago
words of my Sunday-school teacher on
the subject, when the young niece trilled:
“00, feel, Unc., his horns are just startin’
to grow! ” She insisted on my feeling the
donk.’s forehead, and there were two
protuberances, about an inch long, just
beneath the skin and immediately in front
of the ears —embryo horns, I take it.
Scientists have established that aeons ago
the horse had five toes on each foot, from
which the formation of the present-day
equine hoof evolved ; now I’m wondering
whether the donk.’s ancestors were
horned.
* * * *
“Taws”: The association of Molly
Morgan with the N.S.W. Hunter Valley
was brought painfully home to
recalcitrant last-war Diggers who passed
through Greta camp. At the back of the
camp, viewed from the railway, is a hill
named Molly Morgan, on which may
still be seen a path worn by the boots of
those who had to do extra training on
defaulters’ parades.
* * * *
“Anti-Ant”: The spitting termites
which “West Wimmera” saw put to rout
the invading meat-ants (B. 23/5/’56)
were the soldiers of the colony, whose
sole job is to protect the workers, queen,
king and nursery. Had “W.W.” inspected
the meaties he would have seen a milky
fluid adhering to them —the acid pro-
jected by the defenders. The soldier-
termite’s mandibles are not equipped for
eating; he is sustained by a type of pro-
tein he licks off the bodies of the workers.
When the workers come up against a
really stiff obstacle, such as a piece of
galvanised-iron, they simply call on the
soldiers to do a little spitting, and the
required hole will eventually appear,
eaten through by the acid-secretion.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: It isn’t unusual for young
Derwent-jacks and pied butcher-birds to
call like hungry young magpies, but one
of last year’s clutch of maggies surprised
us by whistling a duet with a pied
butcher-bird. Since then it has given us
imitations of grey butcher-birds, peewees,
little wattle-birds and the green lorikeets
that chirp and squeak among the banksia-
blooms. The rest of the magpie-gang
seem to be greatly puzzled by it, and
often sit silently while the mimic runs
through its repertoire. This morning we
had a soprano-contralto duet between the
mimic and another young magpie.
* * * *
A LTHOUGH the name of Dirk Hartog
is not listed among those of famous
discoverers and explorers of new lands,
he is certainly not the “most-forgotten
man” in Australian history (B. 23/5/’56).
Every textbook or graded series of text-
books on the subject gives an account of
his landing and his self-erected monu-
ment.
Dirck Hatichs, Dirck Hatterick, or
Dirk Hartog, of the ship Eendracht, was
only one of many hardy Dutch skippers
who followed Brouwer’s route from The
Cape to Batavia, running well to the
southward to get the benefit of the
Kerguelen-current and the prevailing
westerlies of the Roaring Forties as far
as Longitude 110° E., and then working
northward into the region of the prevail-
ing south-easterlies. Many of them over-
ran their easting and sighted the coast,
and some were wrecked on it or on out-
lying reefs, like Pelsart’s Batavia on Hout-
man’s Abrolhos; and it is quite probable
that many Dutchmen other than those
of whom we have records landed on the
coast in search of water.
But, speaking of forgotten Dutchmen,
how many Australians know the name
of the skipper of the Leeuwin or of the
ship that carried the rich merchant
Pieter Nuyts along our southern shores,
or of the Duyfken in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria? These are all recorded, but
who was the explorer of part of our
northern coast shown in the Dauphin
Chart of 1536, with every bay and cape
marked? Just another forgotten man.
EX-PED.


IN the days when shearers used to try to
book their pens months ahead they
enclosed such references as they had (if
they were not known to the prospective
boss), together with a £ 1-note or A.W.U.-
ticket as deposit. One ref. that came my
way was typed on the imposing head-
office stationery of a large pastoral firm.
It ran: “Biff Jones shore in three of our
sheds last year and we stood him.”
“Diamondem.”
♦ * * *
“Syd S.”: Two Redlynch (Q.) railway-
bridge carpenters saw the head of a snake
protruding from long grass and promptly
chopped it off. Examination showed that
file snake, an Bft. taipan, had three
complete sets of fangs—one set on the top
jaw and one set on each side of the
bottom jaw.
* * * *
“Manners”: A prefabricated building
in Tarraville (Vic.), a small coastal town
in s.-e. Gippsland, has just celebrated its
centenary. It is Christ Church, and was
prefabbed in sawn timbers 9in. wide and
2in. thick. All uprights were slotted, and
cross-beams and plates mortised, so that
no nails were necessary. Only the
original roof-shingles have had to be
replaced.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Recent evening plagues of
many genera and species of insects have
given us the opportunity to study upside-
down six-point landings, but though they
can perform all the tricks of a stunting
airman, as well as some that are beyond
him —dragonflies, for instance, going
backwards or sideways—all insects seem
to land on the ceiling the same way, with
an inside half-loop, completing the loop
when they become airborne again.
* * * *
“Sparks”: A pair of swallows have
mystified experts by building a nest on a
lampshade in the lounge of a Brisbane
suburban home —in autumn! They took
"Shut the door — I'm freezing!"
three weeks to build the nest, bringing
the raw materials in through the front
door, and as an added luxury used fibres
plucked from the front doormat. The
nest is apparently completed, but there
were no eggs at time of writing. Swallows
usually nest in spring; a guess is that
continual wet summer weather caused the
switch.
m m
“D. Ex. F.”: “The Groper” (B.
30/5/’56) asks who started the furphy of
the Kindur River. In 1831 a runaway
convict, George Clarke, gave himself up,
and, to escape severe punishment, told a
story of his discovery of a remarkable
river fed by large lakes and called the
Kindur, which flowed easterly through
very good country north of Liverpool
Plains. It sounded so convincing that
towards the end of that year Surveyor-
General Mitchell obtained leave to
investigate. He crossed the Peel and
Namoi Rivers, and tried to sail canvas-
boats down the latter, but snags and
shoals made it impossible. By 1832 he
had discovered a river called by the
natives Karaula, now known as the Mc-
Intyre. From this point he had to return
because of lack of food, due to the looting
of his supplies by the natives. Mitchell,
jealous of Sturt’s success as an explorer,
was anxious to find such a river as the
Kindur, particularly if it flowed east into
the sea, in order to disprove Sturt’s theory
that the Darling and its tributaries flowed
into the Murray. No such river as the
Kindur existed, and Mitchell must have
been mortified to find that his journey
did nothing but confirm Sturt’s theory.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The outback fencer,
notoriously difficult to get on with, flung
the brace yards away in rage, whereupon
his big young offsider walked smartly to
the offending implement, picked it up,
and flung it away further —-as far as he
could. Fencer had to fetch it. Offsider’s
tea-brew didn’t suit, either; the veteran
kicked the billy over, putting the fire out.
Offsider made a new fire, brought the
billy to the boil once more, then emulated
the irate one’s fire-quenching act. Tan-
trums cured.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: A pen-name seen attached
to poems in The Bulletin is the name
of a man famous in Polynesian legend.
Hui-te-Rangiora was a great canoe-chief
of some 1200 years ago. In his big sailing-
canoe Te-Ivi-o-Atea he sailed south from
the island of Rapa to see what lay there.
They encountered immense waves in a
“dark, misty place not seen by the sun.”
Here he and his crew gazed in amaze-
ment on “islands, which were white, like
scraped-arrowroot, on which no trees or
grass grew, great seaweeds which floated
on the sea like the hair of a swimming
woman, and deceitful creatures which
dived to great depths.” Many anthropolo-
gists, including Sir Peter Buck, whose
mother was a Maori, thought these
descriptions of icebergs, bull-kelp and
seals must have been added to the legend
after the Polynesians of the central
Pacific had come into contact with Euro-
pean seamen and thus learned more about
geography. But anyone who looks at a
chart of the South Pacific will see a spot
east of the Chatham Islands where the
northerly limit of the drift-ice is in the
same latitude as Wellington (N.Z.). Here
quite large “growler” icebergs have been
sighted at times, and here, in the vicinity
of reefs, bull-kelp and seals can be seen
today. There seems little doubt, there-
fore, that the great Hui-te-Rangiora did
make the voyage described,
“Apemantus”: Kalgoorlie bars are
open till 11 p.m., and workers coming off
shift at midnight aren’t neglected, either,
i n the middle of the Golden Mile, along
with the Great Boulder, South Kalgurli,
Perseverance and Enterprise mines, is
the suburb of Fimiston. Now, so help
me > they’re calling tenders for the pur-
c^ase anc * removal of the lock-up there!
“Matho”: J. P. Carroll’s fireman who
evaporates 861 b. of steam from each
pound of coal (B. 28/3/’56) is certainly
"Then, naturally, there's the key-money .”
a wizard with the shovel. It’s good-
quality coal which will produce 12,000
British Thermal Units for each pound
burned, and as water from the engine-
tender would require something over
1000 B.T.U.’s per pound to convert it
to steam, it’s obvious that the fireman is
working his boiler at something over
700 per cent, efficiency. Could there be
a decimal-point missing?
* * * *
“Agricola”: In the flood “Piggy”
Brown’s champion boar was washed into
Italian Tony’s house. Tony is terrified
of pigs, so he camped on the veranda
rather than spend the night in the house
with Dennis. After the flood had sub-
sided Tony biffed “Piggy” for damages to
bed and blankets. “You see,” said the
claimant, “he campa in da bed and he
ruin everything.” “You won’t get a bob
out of me! ” retorted “Piggy.” “The bed
was the only thing out of water, and you
don’t expect a pedigreed boar to camp in
water, do you?” “But what abouta me?
wailed Tony. “You ?” exploded “Piggy.”
“You haven’t a pedigree, have you?”
* * * *
“Kenyas”: My garden having been in-
vaded by a colony of bulldog-ants, I
• tried my neighbor’s advice and poured
kerosene down the holes. The bulldogs
emerged groggily, woozed around like
drunks for a bit, then keeled over and
lay inert. Troubles were over. Next
morning an inspection revealed nary a
defunct bulldog, but a lot of very belli-
cose ones. Cunningly I waited till all
were snugged-down below in their bunks,
then got to work with caustic-soda in
boiling-water. No sign of a buffo for
three days, so decided to plant a berry-
tree on the site of the nest. Sequel? In
dire distress, sans nether-garments, and
painted liberally with woad. Now, what
does settle the cows?
* * * *
“Inton”: As we shovelled-off the top-
soil along the gully-bank under the
mesquite-trees the tunnels of thousands
of cicada-nymphs were exposed ; a rough
check gave 20 to the sq.-ft. Some were
vacant; in others the clumsy, bumbling,
emerald-green, black-banded nymphs
were waiting near the surface. Near-by
grass-blades and shrubs were studded
with the fragile nymph-cases, split along
the top where the fully-formed adult had
forced its way out into an uncertain
future. And now, strangely enough, we
heard the winged grown-ups singing in
the trees: we hadn’t been listening for
them before.
THE AUTUMN STARLINGS
None so careless of winter’s warning .
As a starling-troupe on a warm mid-moming
Playing their sweet imperfect pipes,
Clicking inadequate castanets.
Keeping some old-time festival
Some artless musical free-for-all,
With stuttering solos and quaint quartets,
Crooning and duckling, they try and try
In vain for some note that soars too high.
In shimmering suits of metallic black
And blue, they sing till their voices crack.
And then, what happens? Just cluck and chatter
And happy gossip. What does it matter
After all, if noon still lies
Warm on the woodshed’s weathered root/
A sun-bright morning is still enough,
More than enough, in a starling’s eyes.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
HAS ANYONE SEEN MY-S?
IT is some time ago now; but, then, it
might take a considerable time for
them to reach the light of day. They
were peach-pink, with lace on, and I had
only recently bought them at the Mata-
ranka (N.T.) store when I lost them.
At the little roadside store in those
days you could buy anything from petrol
to fountain-pens, from Army hats to
aspirins, from the latest plastic-ware
to long strings of red, shiny jequirity-
seeds threaded by the bush lubras. 1
bought the pink things, and a pair of
blue ones, too, because a combination of
red dust and bore-water had ruined most
of my others further south.
We also traded a bottle of “lolly-
water” for a crocodile’s egg which an
aborigine had just brought in from a
place he called Red Lily Loo-gan. He
assured me that it was good, and would
hatch in time, but whether it did or not I
shall never know; it simply disappeared
from the jeep, leaving not a trace of shell
behind.
We made a perfect camp, the tent
pitched in the shade of tall paperbarks
and pandanus-palms, among which the
fireflies flitted and the wallabies bounded
all night. The little palm-fringed stream
of warm spring water, clear as glass and
with a soft, sandy bottom, was just deep
enough to swim in. The water was about
blood-heat; in the mornings it steamed
like a hot bath.
After a few days I decided to do some
washing while there was plenty of warm
water at hand. Floating the washbowl on
the water with the soap in it, and com-
bining a pleasant swim with wash-day in
the manner of Mrs. /Eneas Gunn’s lubras
on the Elsey, I washed my own things
first, and then left them to rinse them-
selves, caught against a fallen log across
the stream, while I struggled with the
shirts.
Every now and then I forgot the bowl,
which would float off downstream with
the soap in it and have to be rescued.
The water was so mineralised that it posi-
tively fizzed as the soap reluctantly dis-
solved in it. Then, chasing the bowl
downstream again, I found that my own
washing was gone —all sorts of intimate
garments floating off into the unknown.
I piled the shirts in the bowl and put
it on the bank, then plunged along the
stream-bed in pursuit of the runaway
underwear. Soon my feet dropped into
what seemed a bottomless hole —at least,
peering down, I could see no bottom
in that crystal water, nor any patches of
pink or blue linen.
Climbing out and walking on through
thick undergrowth, I startled a big kan-
garoo ; as he crashed away he woke
flying-foxes, and a clamor of hissing and
flapping broke out overhead. A colony
was roosting close together in three paper-
barks, hanging head-downward from the
high limbs ; now about half of them were
on the wing, bumping and blundering into
each other and swearing loudly. When
I looked down again I found that the
stream had completely disappeared. The
line of pandanus and paperbark still
marked its course, but there was no water
—it had, in fact, dived underground,
taking my precious things with it.
At first I was diverted at the thought
of them disappearing into the bowels of
the earth; then I considered that it was
more likely they would appear again in
the Roper River, which this stream
would eventually join. Perhaps one day
a visitor to the western shores of the
Gulf of Carpentaria may see a proud
native wearing of pair of peach pink
s, trimmed with lace, and wonder
where he got them.
NANCY CATO.
LINES TO A COUNTRY BOY
Wherever you go always you will remember
The summer and the early roar of bees,
Of workers that, invisible, outnumber
Night’s galaxies.
Always you will remember the golden netting.
In sound, of summer on the burning days
When the pink wild lilies’ flare is setting
The grass ablaze.
Always you will remember, when you arrive
In that time when no summer days are long,
The raw smell of new honey in the hive,
And morning song.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


. Li
X
uu
?Cx
n
i!
-C7
COVE"
3
C 3
U
Cs
o
c<
8
C h
EN
<*■*■>
I
■ ;*'ji
>os
:>) ,
OOJ
2
ffi
V A
</ Vl)
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson's Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers v/hosc
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure —when only the best will do?
yjj
m
m
m
m
mi
m
X
OUKIO
Benson u. Hedges
OLD BOND STREET •LONDON • W
Research in Industry
Weight is a
problem
No, 25 in a
?T)\
&
Titanium was first produced in 1790, but it was not until 1925,
when the first sample of high purity metal was produced, that its
potential uses were seen. When free from harmful impurities, titanium
can be alloyed to possess the strength of stainless steel and yet have
only little more than half the weight. It has the highest strength/
weight ratio of any commercial metal, and it has outstanding resistance
to corrosion. These properties make it immediately attractive for
aircraft construction, and jet engine components, but much wider
fields will open up for it as its cost is reduced.
Much research and development work has been carried out on
titanium throughout the world, but only a handful of firms have
undertaken the production of the raw metal on a commercial scale.
With a long background of experience in non-ferrous metal manufac-
ture, 1.C.1. was early in the field, and in 1953 it was decided to build
a plant with an annual output of 1/500 tons, using a new process
developed by 1.C.1. research people. In the short space of two years
the plant came into operation, and now, in 1956, 1.C.1. is producing
titanium of the highest purity at what is now the lowest price in the
world. In addition, the metal produced by 1.C.1. has important
advantages in its physical form, for it is produced as small granules
which can be pelleted with alloying metals into a form ideal for the
difficult process of melting.
The success of I.C.L’s intensive research and the development of
this new sodium process for the extraction of titanium shows once
again that the British chemical industry is leading the world in a
new and important field.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
icr
11157. L. 858 3347'
Business. Rollery. Ete.
Sangara (Holdings), Ltd.
T IKE something out of the
dim past, shareholders in
Sangara (Holdings), Ltd., have
received two years’ dividends on
their 6 p.c. prefs. Their “rubber-
acres” have taken a long time
to come good.
Japan was just about to bomb
Pearl Harbor and advance on
Singapore when Sangara Rubber
Plantations, Ltd. (incorporated in
Papua) and Sangara Investment
Co., Ltd. (incorporated in
Papua), burst on the Australian
public with high-pressure radio-
ads. and other forms of be-
wildering salesmanship. One of
the few modest statements
in a booklet issued in November,
1941, to sway the hesitating
investor was: “Not Lasseter’s
Lost Reef—or King Solomon’s
Mines just a Papuan
Rubber Plantation.” This was
followed by the offer of “rubber-
acres” at £75 a pop, with an
estimated return of £4O an acre
“upon maturity.” The land was
near Sangara, in the Buna area
of Papua.
War-Clouds of the Japanese
invasion and smoke from the
volcanic eruption at Mt. Lam-
ington obscure several years of
the cos.’ activities at Popendetta
(Sangara). But it appears that
out of the murk of these things
and the awkward financial
arrangements that always follow
the sale of “acre-lots” and
“bonds,” in 1952 it was decided
to reconstruct the enterprises
financially, and on December
11, 1952, an operating co., San-
gara Plantation Development
Co., Ltd., and a holding-co.,
Sangara (Holdings), Ltd., were
formed, and owners of rubber-
acres were asked to convert
their acre-certificates into shares
in the holding-co. The number
of shares they received for each
acre isn’t clear, but they got
both prefs. and ords.
On October 31, 1953, the
operating co., Sangara Plantation
and Development Co., Ltd., had
a paid-up capital of £233,862 in
172,219 £1 ords. and 61,643 £1
6 p.c. prefs. There was then
£52,985 outstanding in respect of
unconverted “acre-certificates.”
Plantations, etc., appeared in
the balance-sheet at £285,938,
while plant, stocks, etc., brought
the balance-sheet total up to
£308,226.
The co. made a loss of £4114
in this first period following
incorporation, explained by
managing - director Douglas
Stuart Wylie to be the result of
inadequate production, high
costs, low prices and too high
a percentage of low-grade
rubber.
Figures for the next year come
through Sangara (Holdings),
Ltd., which owns all the shares
in the Plantation and Develop-
ment co., to which it transferred
the rubber-acres. Production of
rubber rose from 212,0001 b. to
311,5001 b., and the operating-co.
earned a profit of £497. A small
amount of cocoa was produced,
but it is prone to pest-attack and
plantings are not being extended.
Reporting for the year to
October 31, 1955, production
rose to 369,0001 b., and profit on
operations was £18,617 (after
writing-off £3733 for depreci-
ation and amortisation). The
operating-co. paid Sangara
Holdings a div. of £10,361,
provided £BBO for staff-bonuses,
eliminated losses, etc., and left
£2792 for reserves.
Sangara (Holdings), Ltd.,
itself was able to retain £9463
of the div. after paying expenses,
and out of this it has paid a
dividend of 12 p.c. on its pref.
shares (£9178), wiping out the
amount due for two years from
the date of incorporation (Dec.
11, 1952).
There is now rather more than
one year’s arrears to pay-off.
But, at April 6 this year,
managing-director Wylie, on the
plantation, reckoned that profits
were being earned by the operat-
ing co. at a rate sufficient to
wipe-out the arrears before the
close of the next accounts.
Production of rubber at
present exceeds 40,0001 b. a
month. How much acreage is
planted and how much is bearing
isn’t disclosed; but, while the
div. on the pref. shares is better
than nothing, at last year’s
earning-rate the co. is over-
capitalised. In other words, for
the present, at any rate, in terms
of capital the “rubber-acres”
have been stretched too far.
A div. of 10 p.c. on the
ord. capital (now £219,394
in ss. shares) of the holding-
co., plus 6 p.c. on the prefs.
(£76,489 in ss. shares), would
call for net earnings of not less
than £26,500. That may be
possible in the future, depending
on the condition of the planta-
tions, prices for rubber, and the
availability and suitability of
labor. The co. is going ahead
planting young high-yielding
rubber-trees, but it is usually six
or seven years before a rubber-
tree becomes an economic pro-
ducer.
In future reports the directors
would be fairer if they gave
shareholders more information
about the plantations, especially
as the registered office of the co.
is in Port Moresby. Goodness
knows, those who bought
“rubber-acres” have had a long
and unhappy wait for some-
thing to turn up following the
glamorous promises of nearly
15 years ago.
Economic Cough-mixture
SHARE-PRICES are down,
train- and tram-fares and rail-
freights are up again (in N.S.W.),
the Federal basic wage is up, too,
but the Commonwealth £3O-
- cash-loan (£5 Is. 9d. per
cent, over seven years) was over-
subscribed by about £3 million,
most income-tax assessments
now been paid, and some
unions outside the A.W.U. are
starting to jack-up on the
shearers’ strike.
Those are some of the odd
ingredients of the economic
cough-mixture we are swallow-
ing this ’fluey month of June.
Wool is firmer than it was ;
whether this is the result of
unavailability of the staple
because of the A.W.U. “black”
ban isn’t clear; certainly sales
and shipments have been
affected.
There is a conflict at present
between more economical mech-
anical production that is arising
from extension and modernisa-
tion of factories, and higher
costs that are being charged by
less efficient (and more union-
ridden) industries, chiefly trans-
port.
Share-prices are starting to
look cheap, in some' cases, on
’Change. But in many instances
it will pay to wait on publication
of the accounts for 1955-56. All
our shocks aren’t over yet by any
means.
Costs and Automation
'"pHE most discouraging
-*■ economic developments of
the past few months have not
resulted from the “little Budget”
methods introduced in Canberra
with the object of checking infla-
tion and providing funds for
public works; more disturbing
have been the increases in steel
prices and coastal shipping
charges.
The rises in steel prices and
freight-rates show all too clearly
that costs-inflation is by no
means over in this country. Steel
and transport are vital items in
the Australian economy, and the
increases are bound to add to
other costs. Already overseas
shipping charges have been
lifted, and their effect is visible
in the cost of imports. Another
rather threatening aspect of our
costs situation is the prospect
of some rises in the home-
consumption price of foodstuffs
if overseas prices decline more.
Such is the effect of “equalisa-
tion” and “stabilisation.” The
more we get overseas for our
land products, the cheaper we
can sell at home. But the reverse
also obtains.
Higher depreciation - allow-
ances on new plant-installations,
of which there have been many
over the past five years, tend to
send costs up also in some
industries, especially where it is
realised that bigger depreciation-
allowances on old plant should
also be made to avoid capital-
erosion, even if such bigger pro-
visions are not allowable by the
Taxation Departments as being
tax-free.
High costs and inadequate
capital resources (yffiich in turn
are factors in our adverse
balance -of - payments) remain
Australia’s overall economic
problem. They in turn derive
from inadequate productivity
from the working population.
To what extent automation
can be expected to help the
Australian economy is difficult to
forecast. But automation clearly
will operate most effectively in
countries already geared to mass-
production methods and which
have a large population (and
market) within their own terri-
tory. Also the cost of converting
to automation, where it is applic-
able to an Australian industry,
may be burdensome in the
present state of our overseas
funds. Most of the equipment
would probably have to be im-
ported at this stage.
For the present, then, our
hope of increasing productivity
lies principally in getting a more
energetic, intelligent and co-
operative effort from wage-
earners and managements under
production methods already
familiar to us.
The brighter side of it all?
Opportunities in this country are
tremendous provided we do get
on with the job of producing to
our best capacity. When wage-
earners realise in a practical way
that a higher standard of output
must bring a higher standard
of living there should be a
revolution in the industrial
outlook and prospects of Aus-
tralia. A better standard of
production, with consequent
lower costs, would also disperse
problems arising from capital-
shortage. It is only lack of con-
fidence in our ability to manu-
facture economically that stops
overseas capital from surging
into Australia.


Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SILOS
# Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
9 Easily erected permanent
9 Rodent and weatherproof
• Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
# Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
• Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
. 9 Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
• Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£l3B.
WRITE for further in -
formation and Agents’
Names to Dept. No. B
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
200 Bushel Silo £45
LYSAGHI’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia! Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities. SSA/56
Position Vacant
MANAGER REQUIRED
for South Western Queensland
Property running 10,000 Sheep
and 500 Head Cattle.
Salary £l2OO rising to £l5OO
per annum.
Good living conditions in new
house. School 3 miles. Close to
Main road and rail. Reply with
full references and details of ex-
perience to Box 1665, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
NEW ZEALAND’S credit-
squeeze is beginning to
pinch, and there have of late
been several suggestions that it
has, perhaps, gone far enough.
In any disinflationary process,
expressly designed to damp-
down excessive consumer-
spending, someone must get
hurt. Painful though it is for the
individual concerned, that, in
itself, is no reason for alarm and
no reason to reduce the pressure.
It is merely evidence that the
squeeze is working.
True, the effects of a credit-
squeeze are cumulative, and
could roll on, gathering impetus,
till disinflation reached a point
where it became deflation. But
there is no evidence that that
point is near yet.
The Government clearly
doesn’t think so. It has, in fact,
found it desirable to give
another twist to the screw.
Reducing Overdrafts
A new method of calculating
the minimum balances which
the trading-banks must main-
tain at the Reserve Bank came
into operation on June 1.
Finance Minister Watts said
that it “would not, in itself,
mean any tightening of the
credit-squeeze,” but he added
that it “would give the trading-
banks a greater incentive to
reduce overdrafts.” The Minister
seems to be splitting a rather
fine straw. It’s difficult to see
how it can give a greater in-
centive to reduce overdrafts
without tightening the squeeze.
That is clearly what it is
intended to do, and what it
will do.
In announcing the change the
Reserve Bank said that, though
bank-advances had fallen by
£l6 million in the last year, they
were still £l5 million too high.
The reserve-ratios were being
increased to an extent which, it
was estimated, would require the
banks to borrow from the
Reserve Bank up to £l5 million
—the amount of excess advances.
The new ratios are 32 per cent,
of demand-liabilities and 10 per
cent, of time-liabilities, but these
percentages aren’t comparable
with the previous ratios because
the banks’ holdings of Reserve
Bank notes (normally about £lO
million) are now to be included
in their cash. Under the new
ratios the minimum cash will be
£B2 million, which means that
the minimum balances to be
held at the Reserve Bank will be
about £72 million.
* Minimum balances of £72
million compare with £49
million at the end of April
and £66.5 million at the end
of February. For the increased
amount of £l5 million that they
will now have to borrow the
banks will pay the Reserve Bank
interest at the discount-rate of
7 per cent.
The banks have been given
an assurance that, to the extent
that they reduce excess advances,
the pressure of the reserve-
ratios on their cash will be eased.
“Squeeze” Is Working
There are several encouraging
signs that the credit-squeeze is
beginning to have the effects
desired.
At May 9, bank-advances
were £lBl million, £l6 million
less than a year previously.
Net overseas funds were £92.6
million, £3O million more than
at the beginning of the year and
only £5 million less than a year
previously.
More important than the
actual level of reserves is the
trend. This is indicated by the
monthly surpluses in overseas
exchange transactions:
1956. 1955.
£-million £-million
January .. 3.8 2.9
February .. 11.5 5.6
March .. 5.5 1.7
April .. 4.4 0.9
The trend of private imports
is also in the desired direction, in
this case downward:
1956. 1955.
£-million £-milllion
January .. 20.2 20.0
February .. 17.2 17.6
March .. 17.8 21.9
April .. 17.4 17.9
It will, however, be noted that
the average monthly fall in
private imports over the first four
months of the year is only a little
more than £1 million. The
Minister of Finance has said
that a reduction of £2 million
to £3 million a month is required.
Current trends indicate that,
provided there is no serious
overseas price-recession, Maori-
land will finish the year without
a deficit in its overseas exchange
transactions and perhaps with a
surplus of a few million pounds.
In the 12 months to April the
deficit was £l3 million, compared
with a deficit of £43.5 million
in the previous 12 months.
It is clear, however, that the
inflation which is at the root of
the balance-of-payments prob-
lem will not be finally overcome
by the use of the credit-squeeze
alone. It is rather disquieting
to note that, though the Govern-
ment is squeezing the private
borrower, its own net indebted-
ness to the banking-system at the
end of March was £ 5 ‘ million
greater than at March, 1955.
In the current year the
Government would be wise to
budget for a substantial cash
surplus. No tax-concessions can
be expected and some increase in
sales-tax on luxury-goods
wouldn’t be out of place. But
the onus can’t be placed entirely
on the private sector.
Mr. Watts showed awareness
of the need for Government as
well as private economy in a
recent statement in which he
indicated that final estimates of
expenditure were being carefully
scrutinised and that less-essential
projects and services would be
postponed or reduced.
As a necessary supplement to
other measures, a campaign to
encourage small saving has,
belatedly, been started by the
Government.
If Labor Came Back
Mr. Watts has chosen rightly
to tackle New Zealand’s
economic problem the hard way.
If the Labor party were returned
to power at next year’s election
the Dominion would be in for
another sharp dose of direct
import-control with all the
economic distortions involved —
encouragement of undesirable
secondary industries, increased
demand for labor already in
short supply, intensified price-
control and renewed inflation,
suppressed, but not cured.
Would-be import-controllers
have this on their side: they can,
and do, point to the fact that, in
spite of the credit-squeeze, shops
are able to display for sale
luxury goods which the country
can’t at this stage afford.
Scent, £199 10s.!
The president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, F. P. Walsh, was
recently shocked by the sight in
a shop-window of a pen-and-
pencil set priced at £99 10s. He
said it was American, but it
turned out to be Australian. A
little while ago there were ques-
tions in the House about
blankets advertised for sale at
£66 10s. a pair. No politically
minded person has yet apparently
smelt-out a bottle of Chanel No.
5 offered by a Wellington store
at £199 10s.
It’s very nice to have these
things, and most freedom-loving
New Zealanders will say good-
luck to those who can afford
them.
But psychologically it’s bad.
It’s still touch and go whether
the disinflationary measures
adopted will be enough to make
ends meet in overseas transac-
tions. The Government has
asked importers to use discretion
and is appealing to the public for
thrift.
No one with any knowledge of
the facts will believe that a few
luxury items represent any
serious drain on overseas funds.
But they do have to be paid
for, and the plain fact is that
New Zealand at the moment
can’t afford them, though in-
dividuals, of course, always can.
The real objection, however,
is much more serious. The
average household, asked to
deny itself something reasonably
priced in order to put money
in the savings-bank at 3 p.c.,
does not react favorably to the
sight of bottles of scent at
£199 10s.
Maoriland today wants equip-
ment for industry to ensure
prosperity tomorrow for a popu-
lation which will increase by
50 p.c. in the next 20 to 25 years,
This equipment must be paid for
now. Improvidence makes it
more difficult, and, if not
checked voluntarily, will un-
doubtedly be checked by compul-
sion.
The BRITISH PETROLEUM Company
MR. B. R. JACKSON ON THE TASK AHEAD
The forty-seventh annual general meeting of The British
Petroleum Company Limited was held on June 7 at
Britannic House, Finsbury Circus, London, England.
The following is an extract from the circulated statement of the
Chairman, Mr. B. R. Jackson: —
During 1955 substantial progress
was made in all aspects of the B.P.
group’s operations. Our total sales
increased by 15 per cent., crude oil
production by 25 per cent., and refin-
ing throughput by 23 per cent., while
exploration and marketing operations
were further diversified and extended.
The Company thus played a full part
in meeting the free world’s expand-
ing demand for petroleum, which
increased by 11 per cent, in 1955,
continuing the post-war trend which
has resulted in a doubling of world
consumption of oil products in the
last ten years.
The roots of this strong demand lie
not only in the growth of industrial
activity and improving standards of
living; they also, in the Eastern
Hemisphere, lie in the more limited
capacity for increasing output of the
other major sources of energy, especi-
ally coal. There is every indication
that this combination of factors will
maintain the post-war rate of expan-
sion in world petroleum consumption
until nuclear power becomes available
to supplement world energy resources
on a substantial scale. Thus in the
next ten years the world petroleum
industry may well be again called
upon to double its present output.
The rate of expansion can be expected
to continue, as now, to be greater in
the Eastern Hemisphere, where this
Company mainly operates; and the
Middle East oil-producing territories,
in which we have so substantial a
position, are expected to contribute
an increasingly large proportion of
the world’s requirements.
The discovery, production, refining,
transportation and distribution to the
consumer of the oil supplies needed
to meet such a future demand can
only be achieved by large-scale capital
expenditure on the facilities necessary
for each of these operations. The
oil industry generally, and the BP
group as one of its major components,
will have to provide for the greater
part of this expenditure from its own
resources. If the industry is to main-
tain its record of meeting all con-
sumers’ needs, the performance of the
task which lies ahead of it will require
both adequate economic price-levels
and the continued ploughing back of
a high proportion of earnings to
finance future growth.
The Accounts
The Consolidated trading profit and
other income for 1955 before provid-
ing for Depreciation and Overseas
Taxation was £139,817,943, compared
with a corresponding figure of
£118,228,792 for 1954.
Depreciation totalled £22,143,401
compared with £30,406,091 for 1954.
The reduction of £8,262,690 is mainly
under the heading of Fixed Assets on
which expenditure in 1955 was con-
siderably lower than in 1954. The
reduced capital expenditure marks the
virtual completion of the recent heavy
programme of refinery expansion and
tanker construction, but as indicated
by the figures totalling £97,200,000
mentioned in the Accounts, capital
expenditure is certain to be heavy if
the Company is to keep pace with the
frequently changing improvements
and expansion of the oil industry.
The 1955 figure of Overseas Taxa-
tion of £62,691,602 compares with
£42,879,851 for 1954, the increase in
the main being due to our larger
offtake of oil from the countries con-
cerned. Provision for United King-
dom taxation, after double taxation
relief, amounts to £8,697,875.
The amount available for Reserves
and Dividends is £46,189,539 com-
pared with £17,043,404 for 1954. In
view of anticipated requirements for
future capital expenditure, your
Directors have placed £28,500,000 to
General Revenue Reserve and have
recommended a final dividend on the
Ordinary Stock of two shillings per
£1 stock unit free of income tax, mak-
ing a total for the year of three shill-
ings per £1 stock unit free of income
tax. The total now standing to the
credit of General Revenue Reserve is
£75,000,000.
The total capital expenditure of the
Group during 1955 was approximately
£43,000,000.
Production
Our total crude oil production in
1955 was 46,000,000 tons, over
9,000,000 tons more than in 1954, the
increase being mainly due to larger
production in Iran and Kuwait.
In Papua, the well drilled at Omati
to over 13,000 feet, after a number of
setbacks, was abandoned when gas
indications proved without com-
mercial significance. Geological and
geophysical surveys, often in most
adverse climatic and jungle conditions,
have revealed' several promising
structures. In one of these, the Kuru
anticline, the first well encountered a
large How of gas at under 1,000 feel,
and a relief well is now being drilled
in order to bring the gas llow under
control.
We plan to drill wells on two other
locations, Barikewa and Morehead,
later this year. We aae continuing
to maintain two geological and three
geophysical parties in the field. Since
our two Australian associated com-
panies operating in Papua began work
in 1938, their expenditure in this area
has amounted to some £14,500,000,
of which the BP share has been
£6,500,000.
In Australia, a well drilled by an
associate company in Gippsland, Vic-
toria, failed to find oil or gas and was
abandoned at 4,700 feet, and another
drilling site is being sought.
Refining
Our total refinery throughput in
1955 was 29,500,000 tons, 5,500,000
tons more than in 1954. This increase
was mainly due to 1955 being the
first complete operating year of Aden
refinery, and the first operating year
of Kwinana refinery in Western Aus-
tralia, commissioned in February,
1955; also to our share of processing
at Abadan during its first complete
year’s operation under the Consor-
tium agreement of October, 1954.
In Great Britain, the total through-
put of our Kent, Llandarcy, and
Grangemouth refineries decreased by
some 2,000,000 tons to 8,500,000
tons; this being due to the major
increases in offtake from . Aden,
Kwinana and Abadan replacing the
uneconomically routed products which
had, during the last four years, to be
drawn from the United Kingdom
refineries to assist in the supply of our
Eastern markets.
The statement then referred to the
refinery operations in France, Gei-
many, Belgium, Italy, Aden, Kuwait,
Iran, and continued:
In Australia, where our new
Kwinana refinery came into operation
on Ist February, 1955, and had pro-
cessed 1,690,000 tons by the end of
the year, it was possible to dispense
with our small refinery at Laverton,
which has been closed down.
SEA TRANSPORT: The British
Tanker Company’s fleet now consists
of 144 ships totalling 2,018,000 dead-
weight tons, and we have also about
2i million tons of tanker shipping on
charter. There are now 41 ships
totalling 1,225,500 deadweight tons
under construction or on order for the
British Tanker Company. The
estimated cost of this building pro-
gramme exceeds £BO million.
Distribution and Sales
The BP group’s sales of crude oil
and refined products in 1955_ attained
the record level of 48 million tons,
an increase of more than 6 million
tons or 15 per cent, over the 1954
total.
The sales expansion reported last
year in India, Pakistan, the Middle
East, South and East Africa and
neighbouring markets, has continued.
Lord Strathalmond was present at
the official inauguration of our
Kwinana Refinery by the Governor
General of Australia last October and
afterwards visited our principal offices
and installations in Australia, with
whose operations and organisation he
was most favourably impressed. The
marketing activities of The Common-
wealth Oil Refineries Ltd. are
developing very satisfactorily and are
benefiting substantially from the
establishment of Kwinana refinery in
Western Australia.
The international coverage of BP
Aviation Service and our sales of
aviation fuels are steadily expanding.
The BP International Oil Bunker-
ing Service, now in its thirty-sixth
year of operation, is established at
more than 160 ports on world ship-
ping trade routes.
Sales of our lubricants have
increased very satisfactorily. BP
Energol brands have been introduced
successfully in the following new
areas: Portugal, Spanish Morocco,
Tangier, Gibraltar, British and
French West Africa, Iceland and
Madeira. Our new motor oil, BP
Energol Visco-Static, has established
itself in a foremost position as a
multigrade oil in the United Kingdom,
on the Continent and in Australia.
Good progress also continues to be
made in the international marine oil
market.


The WILDCAL
COUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd.
AS the sixty-ninth year of the business
comes up shareholders of Wunder-
lich can survey a pretty satisfying record
by the co. Founded in the 1880’s by the
Wunderlich brothers, it has become the
most important supplier of many basic
materials used by the building industry:
terra-cotta roofing-tiles, asbestos-cement
sheets and mouldings, terra-cotta facing,
stoneware and architectural and industrial
metalwork, turned out in nearly a score
of tileries and factories throughout the
country.
The co. has made the most of the
opportunities offered in the post-war
years to finance a good deal of its new
investment in capital-equipment out of
the buoyant earnings of the period.
Since 1946, almost wholly from reten-
tions alone, £772,596 has been added to
visible reserves, strengthening the
financial structure, and allowing a sub-
stantially better showing on ordinary
capital.
Shareholders, who have never failed
to receive a dividend, have lately come
more into the picture. Stepped-up in
easy stages to 10 p.c. in 1950, the ord.
div. was advanced to 15 p.c. in the 1954
term, when earnings surged ahead. Last
year shareholders got a Qne-for-two
bonus-issue of the £1 shares, financed
from a reserve created when book-values
of some of the co.’s assets were written-
up in the previous term. On the bigger
capital (the gift-issue ranked for the
whole year) the co. paid a 12} p.c. div. in
1955, worth 18f p.c. on the pre-bonus
figure.
Because of the more stringent credit
position last term there was a steadying
in sales of asbestos-cement and roofing-
tiles. Commercial and Government
building-activity acted as a make-weight,
and demand for metal-ceilings and
architectural terra-cotta was good. Over-
all, sales were about 5 p.c. above 1955,
but to achieve this meant holding prices
stable against a rising level of charges
for labor and materials. As well as costing
more, labor was also scarce and con-
stantly on the move.
In the result net profit dropped £57,350
from the record £258,919 (including
£50,000 added to the reserve for con-
tingencies) earned in 1955:
t Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb..Profit.'* 7 p.c. t —Ordinary—serves. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’50.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.c.= 46,218 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £18,600 .. .. 271,161
Share premiums, £4B 271,209
’51..127,567 11,200 10 p.e.= 54,763 61,594 332,803
To staff partners, £19,900 . . .. 312,903
’52..147,963 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,764 81,999 394,902
To staff' partners, £22,660 .. .. 872,252
53.. 162.306 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,764 96,342 468,594
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,094
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets, £81,684 524 778
’54..212,227 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,144 118,883 643’,661
Asset revaluation reserve, £273,816 .. 917 477
’55..258,919 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,145 165,574 1,083,051
Reserves capitalised, £273,816 . . 809,285
66.. 201.569 11,200 12ip.c.=102,803 87,566 896,801
* After payment divs. on staff partnership certificates.
t After deducting goodwill (£73,888).
Allowing £11,200 for the pref. divs., the
£201,569 profit, struck after charging
£191,558 (down £26,543) for depreciation
and making undisclosed provision for
“possible fluctuations” in stock prices
and company taxation, represented 23.2
p.c. on ordinary capital compared with a
return, on smaller capital, of 45.2 p.c.
in 1955, 36.7 p.c. in 1954 and 27.6 p.c.,
24.9 p.c. and 21.2 p.c. back to 1951.
New machinery and plant costing
£284,650 more than was written-off was
installed during the year, and a start
made on new metalwork factories at
Villa wood (N.S.W.) and Adelaide:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
£160,000 £160,000 £160,000
„ ° rd - •• •• 547,683 547,638 821,449
Reserves .. .. 717,549 1,156,939 970,689
Share applications 103 057
Mortgage .. .. 560,000 648,800 548’,800
Overdraft .. 79,300 197,650
Creditors etc. .. 1,059,746 1,128,589 1,202,579
Staff funds .. 173,050
Final divs. .. 68.786 53,618 57,062
£3,286,764 £3,674,779 £4,061,886
Freeholds .. .. 448,510 779,675 811,699
Plant, etc. .. 674,838 675,413 960.063
Shares, etc. .. 124,048 145,298 166,548
Stocks . . . . 1,356,793 1,497,066 1,476,593
Debtors .. 423,871 423,775 490,609
Cash, bonds .. 184,816 79,664 82,486
Intangibles .. 73,888 73,888 73,888
£3,286,764 £3,674,779 £4,061,886
Payment for the new factory-buildings
will be made by allotting the contractors
about 60,000 £1 ordinary shares.
Funds for new plant and the moderni-
sation of existing facilities were pro-
vided for by a one-for-two issue of ords.,
at a premium of 10s., early this year.
The new issue will also allow the co. to
rely less on bank-credit.
Under the influence of the general
move to longer yields in the investment
market, and because of the reduced
dividend, the price of the £1 ords. has
eased from 645., reached last July, to
around 475. 6d., to give an immediate
return of 5.3 p.c. on the 12| p.c. div.
Net tangible asset backing as at
February 29 was 41s. lOd. for each fully-
paid £1 share.
South Australian Brewing Co., Ltd.
"DREWERS, who have still to discover
the final effect on beer-consumption
of the additional excise imposed under
the Prime Minister’s Budget, may in the
meanwhile take a little comfort from
the recent wage-increases. Hardly of any
real significance, Australian beer-produc-
tion figures for March, the latest avail-
able, show a slight drop on those of a year
ago.
Biggest of its kind in its home-State,
South Australian Brewing has been
managing exceptionally well for many
years. Output has never been disclosed,
but since the co. began on a five-year
programme of expansion in 1950 net
earnings have almost trebled. Share-
capital has expanded quickly, too, on
which the rate of profits has been kept
fairly stable. On mean capital employed
the yearly return has varied little more
than by 1 p.c. either way from the
average for the period of 12.7 p.c.
Last term cash and bonus share-issues,
the latter on a three-for-five basis
financed out of a revaluation of free-
holds, doubled capital, on which the
board confidently maintained a 10 p.c.
dividend. Except for the period 1932-
1937, when distributions ranged from 6
p.c. to 9 p.c., the co. has paid 10 p.c. a
year since 1919.
After charging earnings with all
expenses, including undisclosed provisions
for depreciation and taxation, net profit
made its biggest leap last year (of
£51,741):
_ . _ „ . To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. r serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 92.270 10 p.c. = 72,208 20 5 062 466,627
Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 .. 860,308
1951. .138,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 26,075 685,383
1952. .127,944 10 „ ~108,312 19,632 705,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953. .147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733,230
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 723,230
1964. .180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
1955. .204,649 10 „ ~146,944 57,705 816,939
Added reserves, £1,416,618 .. .. 2,233,657
Reserves capitalised, £1,083,120 .. 1,150,437
1956. .256,890 10 p.c. = 219,774 36,016 1,187,068
Transfers of surplus provisions for
income-tax and contingencies, along with
the writing-up of assets, added £1,416,618
to reserves, of which the bonus-issue of
scrip accounted for £1,083,120.
A 10 p.c. distribution on the enlarged
capital next year will take around
£293,033, or £36,643 more than was
earned in 1956, so the spending-pattern
of the drinking-population over the com-
ing months will be a matter of close
study. The Government apparently
believes that beer-consumption won’t
fall much.
During the term improvements were
made to 77 of the co.’s freehold hotels
and remodelling of the brew-house at
Southwark (where the co. is at present
installing a modern bottling-unit) com-
pleted. Power-generating equipment is
also being altered to burn crude-oil
instead of more costly coal. Work on
a new hotel on Anzac Highway to replace
the old Halfway House is nearly finished,
and the foundations have been laid of
the first hotel in the new city of Eliza-
beth. Completion of this project is
expected “well within” the next two years.
Balance-sheet figures chiefly reflect the
revaluation of the co.’s properties and the
expenditure mentioned on improvements
and additions to freeholds and plant:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,466,266 £1,470,415 £2,930,328
Reserves . . .. 759,234 816,989 1,187,053
Overdraft .. .. 91,646 71,787
Creditors*.. .. 697,188 924,804 730,068
Staff fund.. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div 72,733 73,521 109,887
£3,112,066 £3,382,466 £4,982,336
Freeholds .. .. 1,315,931 1,431,540 2,664,214
Plant, etc 889,525 951,191 1,168,886
Shares subsid. . . 17,000 17,000
Shares other cos. 19,671 19,809 19,809
Stocks . . .. 491,479 494,734 615,094
Debtors .. .. 340,897 420,279 452,532
Advances, etc. .. 53,193 46,583 46,856
Cash .. .. 1,870 1,380 97,945
£3,112,066 £8,382,466 £4,982,336
The liquid position benefited from the
fresh capital. Bank-overdraft dis-
appeared, creditors’ balances fell
£194,736, and additions were made all
round to stocks (up £20,360), debtors (up
£32,253), advances, etc. (up £323), and
cash (up £96,565).
Doubtful if the 10 p.c. can be main-
tained in 1957, the sharemarket prices
the f.-p. ss. units at 7s. 9d. to yield 6.5 p.c.
if it is maintained. Net tangible asset
cover is a shade over 7s. a share.
Freighters, Ltd.
WHEN heavy taxes on the inter-State
road-transport industry narrowed the
market for the special types of equipment
produced by Freighters a few years ago,
the co. was able to turn to the general-
and structural-engineering side of the
business to help sustain operations at a
comfortably profitable level.
Since then the States’ road-taxes have
been invalidated by the Privy Council and
demand for trailer-equipment has revived.
Considerable progress has been made,
too, with refrigerated transport, modern
equipment has been installed, and produc-
tion-lines of the manufacturing sub-
sidiaries have been reorganised. Hire-
purchase selling has also been introduced
to capture additional business.
But there have lately been other
developments which have greatly
broadened the co.’s activities and made
speculation on its future of some interest.
The most significant of these, for its
immediate effect on earnings, was the
purchase in 1954 of J. A. Lawton and
Sons, Ltd., Adelaide engineers, manu-
facturing motor-bus bodies and (under
licence) fork-lift trucks. Since taking-
over a start has been made by Freighters
to transfer all the activities of the co. to
a new factory at Seaton Park (Adelaide).
To pope with the demand from the
eastern States and overseas a body-
building plant has also been established
at Moorabbin in Victoria.
Another new interest taking shape is
the mass-production (to begin at Seaton
Park early in 1957) of a quarter-ton
vehicle similar to the Jeep. According to
the co., demand is widespread, and for
the first year production of 5000 vehicles
is planned.
Third of recent developments was the
establishment of a new subsidiary,
Freighters-Lunn Laminated Plastics, Ltd.,
to manufacture car-bodies, pantechnicons,
radiator-grilles, bath-tubs, etc., in rein-
forced plastic. Two-thirds of the new
co.’s capital was put up by Freighters,
and the remaining third by Lunn-
Laminates, of America.
Reflecting chiefly the Lawton acquisi-
tion, but also improved trading by the
other subsidiaries, consolidated profit for
the 1955 term, after providing £34,654
(up £6351) depreciation and £88,721 (up
£36,060) taxation, was £66,923 above the
£92,919 earned the preceding year:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Add subsidiaries’ res., £13,478 .. 107,015
Profit sale assets, etc., £3403 .. 110,418
Establishment expenses, £llB5 . . 109,233
1951.. 94,390 I7i p.c. = 57,500 50,725 159,958
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 209,958
Profit sale assets, £123 .. .. 210,081
Establishment expenses, £56 . . 210,025
1962. .126,697 17$ p.c. = 85,000 41,697 251,722
Profit sale assets, £241 .. .. 251,963
1953. .100,054 15 p.c. = 75,000 25,054 277,017
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 327,017
Profit sale assets, £28,801 .. .. 355,818
1954.. 92,919 15 p.c. = 90,000 2,919 358,737
Share-premiums, £l5OO . . . . 360,237
Add chi consolidation, £93,829 .. 454,066
Profit sale assets, £2721 .. .. 456,787
Unexplained addition, £7070 . . 463,857
1956. .159,842 15 p.c. =135,926 23,910 487,773
* Subject to intangibles, £18,981 at 30/6/’55.
On mean capital employed profit repre-
sented 17.6 p.c. in 1955 and 15.5 p.c.,
20 p.c., 26.1 p.c. and 28.7 p.c. back to
1951. Dividend was again 15 p.c., making
an average of 16 p.c. since 1951.
To finance expanding activities new
funds amounting to £1,256,134 were
employed in the business at the end of
the term, an increase of over 75 p.c. on
1954:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £600,000 £906,174
Reserves .. .. 277,017 358,737 487,773
Outside interests.. 16,667
Depreciation prov’n 101,898 125,458 220,437
Overdraft . . 209,797 220,246 684,677
Creditors .. 188,249 155,769 258,911
Tax provision .. 82,204 52,636 91,289
Final div. .. 37,500 45,000 67,963
£1,396,665 £1,557,846 £2,733,891
Land, buildings.. 275,737 261,616 605,698
Plant, etc. .. 326,947 366,961 618,218
Shares . . .. 91,997 91,997 11,908
Stock .. .. 467,888 528.973 1,121,273
Debtors .. .. 222,199 303,426 427,380
Cash . . .. 11,838 6,814 30,433
Intangibles .. 59 59 18,981
£1,396,665 £1,557,846 £2,733,891
Investment in fixed assets was £495,339
higher, inventories were up £594,300
and debtors £123,954. Owing to the
rapid growth the liquid position was a
little below that of the previous term.
At Bs. Id. the ss. shares yield 9.3 p.c.
on the basis of a 15 p.c. div. The co.
reported a record profit from operations
over the six months to December 31.
H. B. Selby Australia, Ltd.
-EARNINGS of the H. B. Selby group
g a>t her e d considerably more
strength in the 1955 term, much of the
improvement coming from the expanding
manufacturing side of the business, a
development of the post-war years.
The co. has been established as
importer and distributor of laboratory
equipment and chemicals since early in
the present century, when mining com-
panies were among its biggest customers.
Since then the growth of industry and
education has given a very much broader
and more permanent basis to the market
for its products.
Formation of H. B. Selby Australia,
Ltd., in 1949 dtew together the Sydney
and Melbourne proprietary cos. whose
shareholders received 120,000 £1 ords.
in the holding-co. in exchange for their
interests. Another 99,500 shares were
offered at par to the public, shareholders
and employees, for cash.
Operating costs were again higher last
year, but the co. was able to absorb the
increases in bigger sales. After providing
£6661 (up £2131) depreciation and
£31,515 (up £9842) taxation, group profit
improved £9582:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. ( Dividends serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951 .. 24,062 8 p.c. = 18,020 G. 042 5,492
1952 .. 25,801 8 „ „ 19,414 6,387 11,879
1953 . . 34,656 9 „ „ 24,667 9,989 21,868
Profit sale assets, £lll4 .. .. 22,982
1954 . . 37,295 10 p.c. = 27,500 9,795 32,777
Profit sale assets, £25,382 .. .. 58,159
1955 .. 46,877 10 p.c. = 27,500 19,377 77,636
♦After deducting intangibles, £12,321 at June 30,
1954, written-out of the accounts in the 1955 term.
Profit from the sale of freehold property
and other fixed assets added £25,382 to
reserves. Dividend of 10 p.c. was
unchanged.
To accommodate the expanding branch
activities in Queensland the co. is erecting
a new building on- a site which it acquired
during the year in Upper Roma-street in
Brisbane. The old Queen-street property,
which it bought in 1946 and had planned
to renovate, was sold for a “satisfactory”
figure. Completion of the new building is
expected about the end of this term.
New premises were also acquired in
Adelaide, adjoining the building occupied
by the co.’s branch there.
Expansion of the manufacturing subsi-
diary, Analite Pty., Ltd., has been
hampered by the scarcity of some raw
materials and labor, but, these difficulties
notwithstanding, turnover last year in-
creased by over 50 p.c.—still inadequate,
however, to satisfy demand fully. The
co. will move into a new factory in
Sydney this year. Quality of the goods
manufactured is said to be equal to, and
in many instances definitely superior to,
imported equipment.
Finances are healthy:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
19 53. 19 5 4. 1955*
Paid capital .. .. £274,08’0 £275,000 £275,000
Reserves . . . . 34,189 4 5,09 8 77,536
Mortgage . . .. 40,000 40,000 40,000
Overdraft . . .. 29,501 58,638 85,460
Creditors . . . . 34,897 67,062 71,294
Tax provision . . . . 22,6 0 0 3 0,5 5 6 37,248
Pinal dividend.. .. 16,445 16,500 16,500
£451,712 £532,854 £603,038
Freeholds .. . . 169,650 174,791 185,481
Plant 23,139 34,917 37,099
Stock 165,167 198,752 242,383
Debtors 81,187 111,123 135,952
Cash 248 950 2,123
Intangibles .. .. 12,321 12,321
. £451,712 £532,854 £603,038
For every £ of shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves) outside debt
amounted to only 11s. Bd. Working-
capital was £169,936, an increase in the
surplus of current assets over Labilities
of £31,867.
The £1 shares were last quoted at
30s. 3d. on ’Change, to return 6.6 p.c.
on the 10 p.c. div. Net tangible asset
cover is 255. Bd.
The Hub, Ltd.
"COLLOWING a “highly satisfactory”
result in 1955, a “difficult” year of
trading is reported for its 1956 term by
Sydney department-store The Hub, Ltd.
Located in Pitt-street in the busy uptown
area of Sydney populated by Snows,
Mark Foys and a number of other
retailers, The Hub trades from a four-
story building which it has occupied on
leasehold since the co. was incorporated
in 1920.
Explaining the drop in earnings, chair-
man B. O. Smith says “it was not found
possible to maintain the volume of turn-
over without extending credit-facilities,
which [the] board was reluctant to do,
having regard to the fact that, apart
from lay-by, the business has always
been conducted on a cash basis.”
After provision of £1212 (down £5O)
was made for depreciation, and the usual
£ll4B for amortisation of leasehold
improvements and an amount set aside
for taxation, which was not disclosed, net
profit was £19,571:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. t Dividends serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1952 . . 17,263 7 p.c. = 14,467 2,796 77,310
To staff fund, £3984 .. .. .. 73,326
1953 . . 28,011 8 p.c. = 16,534 11,477 84,803
1954 . . 28,133 8 ~ „ 16,534 11,599 96,402
From doubtful debts, £2500 .. 98,902
1955 .. 25,477 8 p.c. rr 16,574 8,943 107,805
1956 .. 19,571 8 „ „ 16,574 2,997 110,802
* Subject to goodwill, £122,600 at 7/2/’56.
The £19,571 represented 9.4 p.c. on
capital, compared with 12.3 p.c. in 1955.
Profits shown in the table fop earlier
years are not comparable, since 1953 and
1954 figures include amounts recovered


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
O’SUMJYAN
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HUAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
BNVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINBS
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers :
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnet tins Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Now
you can
FORGE!
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BAEKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
bas proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3o), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
vtsi
For Sale
BRITISH GALVANISED
CORRUGATED
IRON
Genuine Monmouthshire Iron
20 tons Bft.
Inquiries:
17 May St, Dulwich Hill,
Sydney. LL2868.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks—Adv*.
II
iv\ e
LIFE ASSURANCE
L Service
FOR
©D
SdVIA
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
mt-iN o'uni «»•»..
The Metropolitan Uuilding, Hunter & Bllgh Streets, Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
in IJtc
Future'
i A
Life comes in cycles. Today the emphasis is
on this; tomorrow, on that. And Australia has
entered now upon a phase in which I believe the
national effort should be directed to a greater
Vigour in Trade.
By that I mean trade within our own country,
as well as overseas. Our standards, our welfare,
depend on Production. Without distribution —the
finding of customers—Production doesn’t make
sense.
As a producing nation, then, we will always
have to be traders; more so in future than when
the world took whatever we had to sell, and no
questions asked.
Australia is stepping up its trade promotion
programme with Britain to an expenditure of
almost £500,000 in 1956-57. The sum is small by
comparison with the volume of real and expected
trade, but it is a welcome sign of our growing
awareness.
Britain has her problems. She has thrived on
them, and invariably comes through them. She
has been a stabilising influence in the past, and
will be in the future. Anything that will strengthen
our traditional trade ties with her must be for the
mutual good.
But we should also set ourselves to the
expansion of other avenues of commerce,
particularly with Asia, New Zealand and the
Pacific Islands.
There is a third factor in successful dealing,
and that is Finance. At every point, through the
producing at one end to the final marketing at the
other, it calls for the husbanding of money and the
applying of it to the best end use.
And so I believe that the stimulation of trade
will necessarily involve a revision of our financial
customs. In the process banking practices that have
grown up in the past may have to come up for a
new shine of efficiency.
For, however well and cheaply we produce,
however animatedly we seek to sell, the master key
to trade lies in IMAGINATIVE BANKING.
7
under insurance for profits lost
in the two years following a
fire in November, 1950, in a
warehouse holding the co.’s bulk
stocks and goods on lay-by.
Notwithstanding the reduced
cover afforded by earnings, the
dividend was maintained at 8
p.c., making an average divi-
dend of 8.1 p.c. a year since the
co. was converted to a public
concern in 1944,
Here are the balance-sheet
figures:
1955. 1956.
Paid capital £207,168 £207,168
Reserves • • 107,805 110,802
Creditors, etc. 91,980 77,183
Final div. .. 8,287 8,287
£415,240 £403,440
Leasehold .. 8,128 6,980
Plant, etc. .. 24,202 22.991
Shares .. .. 6,231 6,231
Stock, etc. .. 131,124 145,475
Debtors .. .. 18,352 18,681
Cash .. .. 104,703 80,582
Intangibles .. 122,500 122,500
£415,240 £403,440
Cash held on February 6, the
date of balancing, was £80,582
(down £24,121). Stock, the main
asset, was up £14,351 to
£145,475.
Shareholders provide £317,970,
or 78.8 p.c., of the co.’s total
funds of £403,440. But good-
will, which amounts to £122,500,
pulls the backing for each £1
of share-capital in net tangibles
down to 18s. lid., and also
probably explains why the
earning-rate on capital is not
higher than it is.
The last sale of the £1 shares
was made at 19s. 6d., the lowest
since the co.’s scrip was listed
on ’Change early in 1948. On
an 8 p.c. dividend the yield at
that price is 8.2 p.c.
Blue Spec Floats Again
’UDITH the object of taking an
’ ’ option over the assets of
that old trier, the Blue Spec
goldmine at Nullagine (W.A.),
W.A. Development Syndicate,
N.L., has formed in Adelaide,
and is offering the public 1475
shares of £lO each, as well as
2500 of the same denomination
at par to shareholders in Blue
Spec Mining Co., N.L. Sub-
scribers to the co.’s memoran-
dum have already taken 25
shares. Of the total issue of 4000
shares, 2500 (the minimum
subscription for allotment) have
been underwritten in Perth,
Adelaide and Melbourne for 15s.
a share commission.
The Blue Spec ore is highly
mineralised, and contains anti-
mony as well as gold. Mining-
engineer F. G. Forman sums-
up the mine as follows: “The
tonnage capacity of the present
Blue Spec workings is insufficient
at 150 tons per vertical foot to
support a long-term profitable
mining operation in such a high-
cost locality, but the prospects
on G.M.L. 266 offer a chance of
developing further ore, possibly
to the order of 100 to 150 tons
per vertical foot, in addition to
the prospecting chances on the
cervanite [antimony-oxide] out-
crop on G.M.L. 263. No assur-
ance of additional ore can be
given at this stage, but the
chances can be assessed as a
good mining risk.”
The prospectus says the old
Blue Spec co. failed because of
lack of capital. The present
promoters regard the area as
“most interesting” and a reason-
able risk ; their idea is put down
a string of drill-holes along the
length of the lode, drilling-costs
to be subsidised £-for-£ by the
W.A. Government. The old
Blue Spec co. gets £2OOO cash for
granting the option, and if the
option is exercised and an
operating-co. is formed, the
operating-co. will pay-off £7500
of secured creditors, and offer
£36,000 of unsecured creditors,
10s.-in-the-£ cash, or full
nominal value in shares in the
new co. A W.A. Department of
Mines 4\ p.c. bill-of-sale liability
for £23,000 will be taken over.
If boring-results do warrant
the formation of the new operat-
ing co., the holder of each
syndicate £lO share will get 200
f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares in the float,
with participation in the cash-
issue. No preferential rights
other than in the present
syndicate issue are granted to
Blue Spec shareholders.
Out of the minimum subscrip-
tion for allotment (£25,000) the
syndicate hopes to have £17,387
for drilling and similar operating
expenses. If the full £40,000 is
subscribed, working-capital
would rise to about £31,000.
It is to be hoped that in the
initial stages the directors do not
draw the maximum (£2500 a
year) allowed under the articles
for directors’ fees.
On the board of the syndicate
are H. H. Carroll; F. G. For-
man ; J. P. R. Paxton; Hon. J.
L. Walker, Q.C.; and A. M.
Williamson. They all reside in
W.A.
Migration and Soakage
■pROM L. Owen: A correspon-
dent, from Magill, South
Australia, asks if, when writing
about the migration of
petroleum, I refer to a form of
soakage. He says, also, if such
is the case, that he isn’t willing
to agree thnt the Rough Range
oil-deposit was due to soakage.
In support of his opinion, he
points out that the Rough
Range well produced 591,600
gallons of 40deg.-gravity oil in
45 days, and that no loss of
pressure was noticed.
Soakage or percolation, with-
out doubt, has been one of the
methods by which the lateral
migration of oil along permeable
beds has occurred, but there is
no proof of any substantial
lateral migration of the Rough
Range oil along the Birdrong
Sandstone. Soakage, however,
is only one form of migration,
and it doesn’t explain the
chemical and physical character-
istics of the Rough Range
material.
The Rough Range oil shows
definite evidence of passage
through beds of small
permeability at some stage in its
geological history. During that
passage, for physical and
chemical reasons, the oil has
suffered differential loss of the
“asphaltic” and other heavy con-
stituents of the original crude.
Subsequently, inspissation
occurred, giving rise to a sub-
stance which is so viscous at
normal temperatures that it is
then almost solid.
The official production-figures
for the Rough Range well, No.
IA, from May 27 to July 26,
1955, was 16,896 barrels of oil
and 3689 barrels of water. The
percentage of water in the liquid
produced showed a very definite
increase towards the end of the
test; this confirmed my early
prediction that the oil-lense was
of very limited extent.
This increase in the percentage
of water indicated, also, that the
well was producing under what
is known as “hydraulic control,”
and that, therefore, no heavy
drop in pressure was to be
expected.
The barrel is the unit com-
monly employed, in U.S.A. and
in many other countries, for
expressing petroleum produc-
tion, and 16,896 barrels is
equivalent to 591,360 Imperial
gallons—or to 2210 metric
tonnes, assuming that my cor-
respondent is referring to API
degrees when he states that the
Rough Range oil is 40deg.
gravity. The gallon unit
(either U.S. or Imperial) is not
used in the oil industry for
expressing production, but is
limited to retail sales ; the metric
tonne (2204.621 b.) is used inter-
nationally for bulk oil statistics.
The barrel is a unit of volume,
and its relationship to the tonne
is dependent on the specific
gravity of the liquid measured.
Half-a-million gallons may
sound a lot, but 2210 tonnes is
not so impressive. While some
oilfields, containing petroleum
which has migrated through
“tight” channels —and, in so
doing, has lost its asphaltic con-
stituents and heavier fractions —
are commercial producers the
number is small. Where, in
addition, the oil has suffered
inspissation, commercial produc-
tion is a rarity.
The chances of large produc-
tion from Rough Range No. 1
well were thus meagre from the
very start, and the “develop-
mental” drilling technique which
followed the oil-strike was
unlikely—except by chance —to
find additional “pockets” which,
collectively, might combine to
yield enough oil to pay expenses.
That possibility still exists in
the Carnarvon Basin, however,
provided that a different tech-
nique is employed.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
“Rain stopped play” more-or-less sums-
up news of Sydney’s activities during the
past two weekends, which included the
Queen’s Birthday holiday. Fashions at
the races were almost literally washed-
out, but there has been brisk activity in
shops specialising in ski-wear, for snow-
news is good and crowds are boarding the
trains for “Kossie.”
There were some good parties during
the week. The bachelors (57 strong —
there’s safety in numbers) gave their ball
in aid of Legacy at Prince’s, and featured
big bad wolves with glittering eyes in
their decor, which was planned by Roger
Dunn. The ball coincided with Sheep
Show Week, so there was a good repre-
sentation of country bachelors.
* ☆ ☆
The 20th annual Dragon Festival Ball,
organised by the Young Chinese Relief
Movement, this year drew nearly 1400
dancers to the Trocadero, and the lively,
exotic atmosphere of previous years was
well maintained. The large official party,
which was received by Consul-General
for China S. H. Sih and Mrs. Sih, with
president of the ball-committee Mrs.
W. H. Oong, included four State Cabinet
Ministers and their wives, and many
well-known personalities in Sydney life.
Present were Mr. and Mrs. W. Sheahan,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Landa, Mr. and Mrs.
R. B. Nott, Mr. and Mrs. F. McGrath,
Sir Richard and Lady Boyer, Mrs. S. H.
Roberts, Mr. and Mrs. T. V. Mi\her,
Mr. and Mrs. E. O’Dea. During the
evening 15 debs, made their bows to the
Consul-General and his wife, and later
in the night the traditional Chinese lion-
dance, with its fantastic costume and
headdress, was performed.- Proceeds
from the ball will benefit the Society for
Crippled Children, the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Society and the Chinese Warphans
Fund.
* ☆ it
Chief topic of the week was the increase
in tram-fares, etc. Early in the piece it
was suggested that Cabinet might “stagger
country rail-fare increases.” Later it was
agreed that they had done that and more.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Meet Me in Las Vegas party at
the Pickwick during the week bouquets
were presented to the president of the
social-committee, Mrs. Sam Lands, and
to Mrs. Ella Westwood, who received
the 0.8. E. in the recent Birthday Honors.
The party, which was in aid of the N.S.W.
Institution for Deaf, Dumb and Blind
Children, attracted about 150 guests to
a buffet-dinner and dancing. Noted
among those present were Mr. and Mrs.
Ken Parry (she is well known in radio
as Miss Del Cartwright), and Mrs. M. A.
Alldritt, who, with Mrs. V. G. Bailey
and Mr. Richard Livingstone, went along
later to the Dragon Festival Ball.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Friday Fiesta” at the All Nations’
Club turned out to be a bright informal
party where one could dance, listen to
“pop” singers, get a first-class recipe for
Chinese fried-rice, talk about Singapore
or Budapest, the cooking in Tahiti and
the dances in the Argentine. The party
was arranged by the club’s social com-
mittee, which has dances for members
every Sunday night at its convenient
quarters in Bayswater-road.
* # 4 ?
Luncheons in private homes seem to
be one of the most popular and enjoyable
ways of raising money for worthy causes
in this city. One such was the luncheon
given for 65 women by Mrs. W. L. Twigg
at her charming home at Strathfield on
Thursday. Cause to benefit is St.
Margaret’s Hospital, whose women’s
auxiliary is at present bent on providing
extra humidicribs for the babes there.
The auxiliary’s president, Mrs. Garth
Hay, with her sisters Mrs. N. Lennon,
and Loretta Stevenson, were among those
who helped to make it a very bright
party. Also Mrs. Theo Rossi, Mrs. Jack
Farrington, Mrs. Bob Mclnerney and
Mrs. John Roche.
* ☆ *
New York is at present “full of visit-
ing Aussies,” according to public-relations
officer Lillian Roxon, at present working
in the Australian News Bureau there.
Among those she mentions are model
Jean Newington, Dr. Bialoguski and
Trevor Jones, “the only white player of
the didgeridoo.” Quite a representative
group!
☆ ☆ *
Debs, and brides are being catered for
by frock-shops in a much more specialised
way these days. One salon —the Kara—
as well as giving advice about etiquette
and procedure, coaching for presenta-
tions, modelling of dresses and a photo-
graph of the bride, offers to find a suitable
partner to escort debs, at their presenta-
tion. This offer, however, does not extend
to the bridal section.
☆ ☆ £r
Apart from the lighthearted show at
the Royal, there seem to be no really
reluctant debutantes in Sydney. Every
week some young things make their bow
to society at national balls or ex-
students’ dances. There will be 54 debs,
at the University Settlement Ball (mostly
undergraduates), which is to be held in
the Great Hall on June 15. Debs, at the
Lady Mayoress’s Ball (to be held at the
Town Hall on September 21) will curtsy
to the Governor, Sir John Northcott,
and will be presented by Mrs. W. E.
Hopkins, of Killara.
# # V
Noted that Mrs. Florence Taylor,
0.8. E., has been made an honorary-
member of the Australian Institute of
Builders. She is the first woman to receive
this distinction. Mrs. Taylor, who was
Sydney’s first woman architect, is also a
structural - engineer and edits three
technical-journals.
This happy picture of 15-year-old
pianist Janette Hamilton was taken
shortly after she had won the N.S.W.
finals in the A.B.C.’s Concerto Compe-
tition last Wednesday. Janette, who is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. Hamilton,
of Ashfield, has been learning music
since she was three-and-a-half. At seven
she won the Sydney Eisteddfod 16-years-
and-under contest, and at the age of
nine won the open Bach championship.
She had been her mother’s pupil until
the end of last year, when, having gained
highest marks in the State for her
A.M us. A., she won a scholarship and is
now studying with Alexander Sverjensky
for her Performer’s Diploma. She is also
a student of Fort Street Girls’ High
School, where she is in her fourth year.
The decor at the Black and White
Ball promises to be original and
exciting. A carnival is the theme, with
carousels and clowns and all the color-
ful gaiety of festival-time. In addition,
there is to be a mock Derby, in which
12 of our prettiest young women will
cut their way through ribbons to the
winning-post. Those taking part are
Mrs. John Atwill, Mrs. Michael White,
Mrs. Lawrence Street, Mrs. John Lewis,
Mrs. Michael Jones, Mrs. John Coghlan,
Mrs. Jack Minnett, with Mary Tancred,
Mary Stephen, Pam Miller, Michelle
Dekyvere and Angela Money.
☆ ☆ ☆
Interesting fashion-items noted in the
shops for some time now are knitted-
goods designed and manufactured in
Israel. They are always in colors black,
earth-red and white and are very distinc-
tive. Now news comes from London
that a showing of clothes designed in
Israel has made a great stir. Some are
based on the traditional coats which
desert-tribesmen wear. Others are de-
rived from jackets worn by Tibetan
monks, and some wool-jersey dresses are
edged with bands of gold-and-silver
embroidery identical with the embroidery
which edged the gowns women wore in
Biblical days.
MELBOURNE
St. Hilary’s Church, Kew, was the
setting for the marriage of Judith
Graham, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. U. Leask, of Kew, and Captain
Rodney Michael Reyne, A.D.C. to the
Governor and only son of Rear-Admiral
Sir Cecil and Lady Reyne, of Alverstoke,
Hampshire (Eng.). The Governor and
Lady Brooks represented the bride-
groom’s parents at the ceremony and also
received, with the bride’s parents, at the
Hotel Windsor reception. The Bishop of
Geelong (Rt. Rev. J. D. McKie), assisted
by the Vicar of St. Hilary’s, Rev. W. V.
Lloyd, officiated.
The lovely bride, who was given away
by her father, chose a classical gown of
Dark-haired, radiant Judith Leask, who
married the Governor’s A.D.C., Captain
Michael Reyne, at St. Hilary’s Church,
Kew.
white delustred duchesse-satin, with the
full skirt forming a short train. The
long-sleeved bodice featured a deep V-
neckline folded to form a yoke. A half-
circlet of orange-blossom held the full-
length tulle veil. Robin Potter, of Sydney,
was bridesmaid ; she wore a full-skirted
frock of heavy white faille. The folded
bodice had threequarter-length sleeves
and the waist was defined with a pleated
cummerbund. Three curved gold leaves
misted with tulle were worn in her hair,
and she carried white and gold flowers.
Squadron-Leader J. A. Rowland was
best man.
There were more than 250 guests at
the reception, where decorations were
white hydrangeas and nerines mixed with
pale-yellow pokers. Lady Brooks wore
a coat-frock of soft-rose-pink wool, with
collar and cuffs of matching velvet. Her
hat, in the same lovely shade, was a
cloche swathed with jersey. Mrs. Leask’s
teal-blue wool frock had the bodice
folded into a flat bow; her tiny platter-
hat was of navy-blue, and she carried
pale-pink camellias. Mrs. John Fullagar,
the bride’s sister, added a black velvet
bandeau to her grey suit.
Among the guests were Acting-Premier
A. Rylah and his wife, Sir Robert and
Lady Knox, Dr. and Mrs. Paddy Moran
(her lovely hat swathed with rose-pink
ostrich-feathers), Mr. and Mrs. F.
Dennett, Mrs. J. A. Rowland (in pale-
tangerine wool and matching cap), Mrs.
George Griffith (her choice a large
brown-moufflon hat and mink coat), Mrs.
W. E. I. Littlejohn (grey tailored coat-
frock and small hat of beige feathers),
Mrs. John Buckland (her coat trimmed
with black Persian-lamb and her tiny
cap of red velvet covered with jet beads).
☆ ☆ ☆
Since it was founded 25 years ago the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital has raised over
£40,000, and also has made thousands
of garments for the small patients. Six-
teen women organised the auxiliary, and
the first meeting was convened by Mrs.
G. H. Peabody, mother of the then U.S.
Consul.
Today the auxiliary comprises 115
members all Americans. Among the
earliest members were Mrs. G. W.
Saenger, of Toorak, Mrs. J. Saulwick, of
Malvern, and Mrs. Herbert Allen, of
Heidelberg, all of whom still work for it.
The big function each year is the Fourth
of July Ball, always notable for the
originality of the decorations. This year
the auxiliary will celebrate its silver
anniversary with an extra-special Silver
Anniversary Ball. It will be held on
July 6 at the Palais, St. Kilda.
In celebration of the silver jubilee the
auxiliary held a birthday-party at the
South Yarra home of Mrs. Gerald
Warner, wife of the U.S. Consul-General.
The 76 guests were received by Mrs.
Warner, assisted by president of the
auxiliary Mrs. Joseph Weidenmeyer
(wife of the U.S. Consul). Mrs. Warner
chose a slim-skirted tunic-suit of navy
French-crepe-romaine, with the tunic
and short sleeves banded in white-spotted
navy crepe. Mrs. Weidenmeyer chose
a suit and emerald-green flowerpot-hat
swathed with navy-and-white-patterned
chiffon. Others who helped with the
entertaining, and who are members
organising the ball, were Mrs. C. W.
McKay, Mrs. Heathcote Wright, Mrs.
L. F. Donnelly, Mrs. M. J. Brent and
Mrs. J. K. Cokefair.
After the luncheon silver spoons were
presented to members who had given
more than 10 years’ service to the auxili-
ary, these including four who were among
the first to join : Mrs. Herbert Allen, Mrs.
G. W. Saenger, Mrs. J. Saulwick and Mrs.
Ethel Young.
* ☆ ☆
The first of a series of informal
mannequin-parades, organised on the
lines of those so popular in America,
was held at Chevron, when charming and
wearable Leroy fashions were paraded by
mannequins who strolled among the
guests having afternoon-tea; these
parades should be very popular on wintry
Friday afternoons.
At one table sat Lady Heinze, attractive
in a smart black tailored suit and small
white platter-hat banded in cinnamon.
Her fellow-guests were Mrs. Bob Law-
rence and Mrs. Hardy Johnston (Sydney).
Mrs. Alan Benjamin wore a cherry-red
velvet coat and head-hugging cloche of
white feathers. Mrs. Joseph Weiden-
meyer (the U.S. Consul’s wife), Mrs.
Erwin Fauser and Mrs. John Kiernan
were also eager viewers. Mrs. John
Carrodus had as guests Mrs. S. A.
Aarons and Mrs. D. Webster. Others
at the parade were Mr«. L. Korman,
Mrs. Alison Syme, Mrs. Marjorie Burke,
Mrs. M. Richardson, Alice Carse and
Virginia Paris.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Rachel Robinson, who has
resigned after many years as secretary
of the Housewives’ Association, and who
leaves shortly for an extended trip over-
seas, was guest-of-honor at a buffet-
dinner party given by Mrs. R. Maxwell,
Miss May Maxwell and Mary Maxwell at
their Jolimont home. The guest-of-honor
chose a black frock and small black
velvet cloche trimmed with large color-
ful beads. Among the guests were Mrs.
T. J. Ryan in frock and jacket of pale-
Parma-violet wool and beret in the same
shade; Mrs. Mabel Brennan; Marjorie
Clarke, whose anthracite-grey silk-shan-
tung suit was worn with a matching
boater-hat; Peggy Tellick, whose
emerald-green wool coat had black-velvet
lapels to match her pillbox-hat, the brim
of which was centred with a diamente
ornament; Mr. and Mrs. Tom Coles (she
wearing a brilliant-red lace-jersey frock
under a black Persian-lamb-trimmed
coat). Author Bernard Cronin was also
at this party.
☆ ☆ *
Though piercing winds made Caulfield
a very bleak spot, hardy enthusiasts
turned-out for the first race of the M.R.C.
meeting—which began at 11.20 a.m.!
The chairman’s wife looked smart in a
black suede jacket trimmed with ocelot,
which she wore with a slim black frock
and a cherry-red har. Mrs. John Reilly,
wife of the M.R.C. secretary, topped
her black suit with an emerald-green hat.
Mrs. Norman Strange wore with her
emerald-green and black-flecked tweed
coat a royal-purple scarf and a tiny
emerald-green, pagoda-jewelled beret.
Mrs. Arthur Laver chose a rust-and-
brown-checked topcoat with a jade-green
velvet cap. Mrs. P. Nicholas wore one
of the new threequarter-length double-
breasted coats in fawn tweed checked in
brown and white, a cinnamon-brown
frock and fawn felt cloche. Lady
Burston added a ranch-mink stole to her
slim brown suit and matching cloche,
Mrs. Arthur Sayef’s tailored grey tweed
suit was worn with a bright-green velvet
draped-beret.


Missing Friend
TO PATRICK MICHAEL O’CONNOR
formerly of Porepunkah in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EFFIE
AGNES O’CONNOR of Whitemark,
Flinders Island in the State of Tasmania
Married Woman has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground
of desertion Unless you ENTER an
APPEARANCE in the Prothonotary’s
Office Law Courts William Street Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria on or
before the Seventh day of July 1966
the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a decree for dissolution of
marriage may be granted and you may be
ordered to pay the costs thereof If you
intend to defend this suit you must also
File an Answer in the said Office on
or before the Seventeenth dav of July
1956.—F. J. • ORAMES & DOWNING,
of 84 William Street, Melbourne, Soli-
citors for the abovenamed Petitioner.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANTON, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT 01 NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes jurisdiction.
TO CECIL ALBERT HARVEY late of
II East CresC'em Ilurst. vitle in the State
of New South Wales:. — TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY FRANCES HARVEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1541 of
1955 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17tlr August 1956
and obtain a copy oi the Petition without
charge from J. BRUCE FEKGUSON, Soli-
citor, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WHALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD CHARLES DUNN late of
Gardener Street Temora.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY AUGUSTA DUNN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3785 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 22nd August 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. H. FISHER ESQ., Solicitor, of
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLYDE WILLIAM OHLENSOHLAGER.
—TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL MAR-
GARET OHLENSOHLAGER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3780 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 22nd August 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
J. H. FISHER ESQ.., Solicitor, of 100
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
In the supreme court Oi'
TASMANIA.— In Divorce.
No. 129 of 1955.
TO RON KELLY formerly of Adelaide in
South Australia but now of whereabouts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a notice for you to appear and
answer the charges in the Petition of
JOHN ROGERS of 13 Mt. Stuart Road
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of your
adultery with his wife, JOAN MARY
ROGERS IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not he allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said charges proved
and pronounce judgment therein your
absence notwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for purpose
aforesaid an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Hobart, in Tas-
mania, within Thirty days of the publica-
tion of this notice. DATED this 11th day
of April, 1956. —H. R. DOBBIE, Principal
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA —In Divorce.
No. 34 of 1956.
TO REBECCA IRENH RIGNEY formerly
of Zeehan in Tasmania but now of where-
abouts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice for you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petitibn
of HARRY THOMAS RIGNEY of 3
Apsley Street South Hobart in Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion IN DE-
FAULT of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the
said charges proved and pronounce judg-
ment therein your absence notwithstand-
ing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, in Tasmania, within Thirty days
of the publication of this notice. DATED
this 9th day of April, 1956. —H. R.
DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
Iwtiu'd.*,.
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
/!'■■
»;z
sv.
7/7/;
mu /•'///'.
H ill!Hn
wmm
w
m
Vi
I©
S 3&
QS^s
•orr«.#o
rff a roi‘Cji
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEaRS
T5T.47.12
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Joseph Post
Shostakovich's Symphony No.
5 was the big work in the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra Con-
cert with Joseph Post on the
rostrum.
Leaning much more to the
classical idiom than to the con-
temporary, the symphony is
notable for the jostling Qf
vulgarities with phases of fine
expression, for rich orchestra-
tion and for a scherzo of lilting
rhythm—of which the orchestra
took full advantage.
In the slow movement, too,
Mr. Post demonstrated his
ability to build-up, without
benefit of brasses, from quiet
beginnings to a climax of
splendid sonority while main-
taining a sure balance between
strings and woodwind-choirs.
The conductor rode the two
separate whirlwinds of the
rondo with spirit.
The only slackness was insuffi-
cient sonority in the return of
the opening subject of the first
movement.
Max Reger’s “Variations on a
Theme by Mozart,” Op. 132 —
in three of which variations the
composer moves so far away
from the theme as to make them
scarcely recognisable offspring
—was given a reading of clarity
helped by tiptop playing by the
upper strings. The concluding
fugue, Reger’s most brilliant
piece of orchestral writing, was
given majestic treatment.
Brahms’s “Academic Festival”
Overture, written as a “thesis”
when the composer received his
honorary doctorate of philo-
sophy at Breslau University,
contains practically nothing of
philosophy but a lot of light-
hearted music in the student-
song vein. Mr. Post’s forces
extracted a fair meed of humor.
Miklos Gafni was soloist, but
with a cold in the head was quite
out of form in the Portrait Aria
from “The Magic Flute” ; in the
last phases he missed two notes
altogether. Obviously distressed
during the second aria—
Federico’s Lament from Cilea's
“L’Arlesiana” the tenor
managed the fortissimo climaxes
well enough and even achieved a
fine, ringing, robust tone.
A.B.C. Competition
The adjudicator in the N.S.W.
finals had a simple task in
selecting the winner of the vocal
section, in which a baritone and
three bass-baritones competed.
Russell Cooper, who sang “I
Have Attained to Highest
Power” (from “Boris Godou-
nov”) with accuracy and
dramatic power, has a voice of
excellent quality and good “for-
ward” production, and suc-
ceeded amply in depicting the
contrition of the near-mad
Boris. Baritone Geoffrey Chard,
below his best form, took second
place with a Mozart aria. Clifford
Grant sang the “Infelice” from
“Emani” with style and good
resonance.
The other competitor, Robert
Bickerstaff, sang a recitative and
aria from “Don Carlos” with
good carrying-power but in-
sufficient polish.
The standard was higher
among the pianoforte con-
testants in the instrumental sec-
tion, won by 15-year-old Janette
Hamilton with a beautifully
shaped and beautifully phrased
first-movement from Anton.
Rubenstein’s Concerto No. 4—a
work that unjustifiably has been
neglected for years by concert-
pianists. The young winner
revealed an astonishingly mature
sense of interpretation and fine
technical equipment.
Cornelia Brain, who played
the second and third movements
from Chopin’s .Second Piano
Concerto with appreciation of
the work’s poetical nature, was
second. Donald Hollier, the
third pianist, played the nerve-
wracked Khachaturian Concerto.
Joyce Stender brought to
Mozart’s Oboe Concerto in C
Major a generally good tone,
though she displayed some
breathing weaknesses. Ronald
Smart played Raymond Han-
son’s Trombone Concerto, a
work which should evoke a
law making the composing of
trombone-concerti an indictable
offence.
ij*
It was noted on this page last
week that one of the items on
Sydney Tiv.’s excellent current
bill is a display of whirling,
illuminated batons by Reg Rad-
cliffe. The man who whirls the
batons is Bill Finch, and a fancy
job he does, too. Mr. Radcliffe
does his stuff on a massive
xylophone with phosphorescent
trimmings—likewise a very
fancy turn.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Sydney art-shows for the week
comprise woodcuts by two
young Lithuanian artists, H.
Salkausas and A. Simkunas, at
the Bissietta gallery, an incred-
ible purchase of a Henry Moore
bronze (£470) at the National
Gallery and, at the same address,
a big display of German graphic-
art.
The Lithuanians do clowns,
landscapes, etc., in a generally
cumbrous style with moments of
minor charm.
The Moore is entitled “Helmet
No. 111.” It is so aptly described
by its title that really there is
little more to say about it. It
is a helmet. A pair of bronze
eye-symbols floating inside it
give it the requisite horror-
effect of Atomic Man ; but, com-
pared with Rodin’s exquisite
little “Kiss” near by, there just
doesn’t seem to be £470-worth of
work in it.
The German exhibition is to
go to the National Galleries in
each State. It includes wood-
cuts, lithographs, drawings and
the like, with a few watercolors.
It is mostly abstract; and, if here
and there one can find a pin-
point of grace or charm—the
panel by Horst Strempel, for
example, Werner Arndt’s bright
“Appel Tree,” Rudolf Kugler’s
pyramids or Ewald Matare’s
pencil-portrait the general
effect is slight to the point of
emptiness.
* i* *
Art Competitions
Daryl Lindsay has agreed to
judge the Kuring-gai (N. S.
Wales) municipal jubilee com-
petition to be held from June
15 to June 23.
The A.N.Z. Bank in Mel-
bourne has almost got around
to the system which The
B;ulletin has for years
advocated to replace art-com-
petitions: sjmply to buy from
the regular exhibitions of the
established societies. Only,
instead of quite doing that, they
are holding a competition limited
to members of the Vic. Artists’
Society (closing July 16). There
will be a “purchase prize” of
100-guineas.
It only wants one step further,
and then banks, councils and all
such public institutions who
want —most praiseworthily—to
patronise art can go along to the
ordinary exhibitions and buy
their pictures as do all private
connoisseurs: with, in con-
sequence, none of the hazards
and nuisances of competitions,
and enormous benefit to the
societies and the artists.
Talkies
“The Divided Heart” (Sydney
Embassy): A deeply moving
story about a decent young
German couple who adopt a
small Yugoslav boy lost in the
maelstrom of war. Years later,
a commission for settling
refugees finds the real mother,
and a court of three U.S. judges
has to decide the issue, with
the boy’s own future as the sole
consideration. The domestic
touches are warmly human, and
the emotions of the two women,
each passing from initial hostility
to understanding the other’s
viewpoint, are projected in fine
acting by Yvonne Mitchell and
Cornell Borchers. Armin Dahlin
gives good support as the foster-
father.
“The Dam Busters” (Sydney
Mayfair): The excitement which
Paul Brickhill infused into his
account of the breaching of the
Moehne and Eder dams in
World War II invests this top-
notch British film. Even the
preparatory training and the
trial-and-error experiments by
Barnes Wallis, the man who
devised the plan and made the
special bombs, are absorbing.
Michael Redgrave, as the
inventor, and Richard Todd, as
the cool, calculating Guy Gib-
son, who led the raid, are well
cast.
“i’ll Cry Tomorrow” (Sydney
St. James): There are two
remarkable performances in this
screen-version of the auto-
biography of Lilian Roth, the
American actress who fought her
way back from alcoholism with
the aid of Alcoholics Anony-
mous. Susan Hayward, as Miss
Roth, plays scene after scene
with almost painful emotional
intensity, yet she is never forced.
As her mother, overweeningly
ambitious for her daughter and
then having to watch helplessly
as she drowns her promising
career in whisky, Jo Van Fleet
excels even the fine work she
did in “East of Eden.”
“Carousel” (Sydney Regent):
Another musical winner from
Rodgers and Hammerstein.
After a sluggish start, the film —
a screen version of Moinar’s
“Liliom” —gets into top-gear
with a brilliant piece of mass
athletic-dancing on a lakeside
wharf to one of Rodgers’s most
catchy tunes : “June Is Bustin’
Out All Over.” The lyrics are
as bright as any Oscar Hammer-
stein II has produced and the
music effervesces throughout.
Baritone Gordon Mcßae and
soprano Shirley Jones sing
spiritedly and give credence to
situations which are a mixture
of tragedy and comedy.
“Joe Macbeth” (Sydney
Capitol): What bloody man is
that? None other than Joe
Macbeth, No. 1 gunman for
Duca, swarthy underworld-boss.
He has ambitions, of course,
and, spurred-on by Mrs. Joe,
slips a knife into Duca during
a midnight swim in the lake —
Mrs. Joe swims out, too, to
extract the knife from Duca’s
ribs when Joe is too scared to go
back for it. There’s no room for
Macduff, but there’s a “Bankie”
whose son, Lennie, has a wife
and baby who have to serve as
the “pretty ones.” And when
Mrs. Joe goes round the bend
the doctor doesn’t say “More
needs she the divine than the
physician”—he says, “Get a
psychiatrist.”
“I Am a Camera” (Sydney
Paris): Set in Berlin when
Hitler was trying on his first pair
of jackboots for size, this cheer-
ful story of a struggling young
novelist and his attachment to
a highly unconventional and
humorous-minded lass owes
somewhat less to the script-
writer than to the skill of Julie
Harris, who peddles a saucy
brand of spontaneous comedy
throughout.
“The Bottom of the Bottle”
(Hoyts’ Theatres): Snail-paced
bellerdrammer about a boozy
escaped jailbird who menaces his
wealthy, selfish rancher-brother.
With Van Johnson and Joseph
Cotten.
“The Silver Chalice” (Sydney
Century): Virginia Mayo has a
leading role in this story about
the Cup used by Christ at the
Last Supper. One of Holly-
wood’s worst Biblicals.
“Never Say Goodbye” (Sydney
State)-: Sentimentality is laid on
with a trowel in this tear-jerker
about a mother being reunited
with her lost chee-ild only to
find that the girlie won’t have
anything to do with her.


The First to Stay
By H. DRAKE- BROCKMAN
THE yacht Sardam, cauti-
ously, with small sail,
crept close along the
~ unknown shorn at
distance of a cannon s shot from
t e surf.
Behind the white tossing
plumes of the spray a wall of
pale cliffs, to many watching
eyes like the English cliffs at
Dover, faced blindly an immense
blue arc of sea.
The morning sun struck silver
from the waves and buffed to
gold the weathered gilt mane of
the lion-rampant at the yacht’s
bows, his curling tongue red
and defiant. Red and gold, with
a lacing of emerald to brighten
oak, the slender lines of a hull
built for speed gleamed in Ihe
sun; like a jewelled setting
beneath three tremendous masts
and the span of square-braced
yards. There was no sign of
other human life ashore or sea-
wards, yet from the peak of the
mainmast fluttered the red-
white-and-blue of the United
East India Company of the
Netherlands, and astern from
the poop, majestic and brave,
the princely flag of Holland.
Against the pale lustre of
sky and sea and cliffs, the yacht
appeared brightly substantial, a
solid fact in a world dissolved
by light.
Frowning into the sun, with
felt hat pulled low and fingers
nervously twisting a gold chain
at his neck, Francisco Pelsaert,
Commandeur for the Honorable
Company and newly-appointed
member of the Council of India,
stood alone on the poop, his
eyes searching the coast, intent
and anxious as the eyes of a
crystal-gazer. Away to the
south-east, away to the north-
west, a thin line behind the
vanguard surf, stretched the
mysterious southern continent.
•
AS minute followed minute
into eternity and naught of
note save a few gulls varied the
scene, the many packed like
herrings in the waist grew weary
of the great Southland, prefer-
ring familiar gossip about the
hanged men, the prisoners yet
chained below, the salvaged
money-chests and jewels; or the
never-palling horror of the
murders; or else to play a hand
with cards grown greasy and
dog-eared in months of terrible
waiting, castaway on coral
reefs.
The gaze of the Commandeur
never wavered
The cliffs gave way to a low
rounded coastline seemingly
curving inwards to a small cove
whilst north ahead mistilv
gleamed the white of high dunes
and sandy f o r es hores. The.
staring eyes narrowed: he was
sure of it! This was the same
tiny inlet where they had thought
to run in to search for water,
he and the skipper of the
wrecked ship Batavia, five
months and a week past to the
day! There had been no bright
sun and soft south-wind that
morning; suddenly out of the
north-west a storm had fallen
on them in the open boat, so
violent they were near drowned
and had perforce to abandon
all hope of landing, being there-
after driven perpetually north-
wards ; or so the skipper Ariaen
of the wrecked Batavia had
sworn, saying he could not bring
the boat to land. Yet what a
woeful tragedy might have been
avoided if they had but reached
this shore . . .
Now, as then, Francisco Pel-
saert felt certain there must be
water in this neighborhood. The
old chill closed round his heart.
Resolutely he disregarded it: he
must accept all that had
happened as being the will of
God ; or else surrender to un-
justified remorse. He must not
dwell on horror or reproach
God, but be thankful he had
lived to reach Java and return
thence; he must consider the
good that remained, the saved
people and goods, the justice
meted-out to scoundrels who
had lost all humanity and
murdered their shipmates in
distress, planning even to master
this yacht, or any that might
come at last to rescue them ; to
slaughter the crew and sail off
pirating to Barbary or Malacca !
Instead, they hung on the
gallows, back there at the
deserted isles, seven of the most
guilty swinging in the careless
wind. And yet . . . and yet . . .
so perverse the human heart, he
could not subdue the intolerable
ache of his own at thought of
how monstrous a crime a day
like this could then have saved!
The sun climbed. The surf
and the sand seemed to mingle,
a white band joining sky to sea,
azure to indigo. There was still
no sign of life. Wherefor no
gain in now going ashore: the
water-casks were all brimful.
He heard the step of the
uppersteersman Claas Gerritsz
on the deck behind him; but
even as he turned to give the
order to continue the course
up-coast, he saw the smoke.
At the same moment the man
at the masthead raised a cry:
“Smoke a-shore!”
Cards and gossip were
dropped. There was a rush to
the yacht’s side. Inland, behind
the dunes, two long thin columns
of grey rose straight as lances
high into the air.
Gerritsz stood at the Com-
mandeur’s elbow. They watched
together in silence, heedless of
the clamor from the waist. A
third, a fourth, a fifth column
rose. “They do not vanish, as
yesterday,” said the steersman.
“It may well be Jacob Jacobs
and the men—a fire to each.”
“God send it so,” answered
Pelsaert. “Put out the yawl and
yourself go ashore.”
Straightway the voice of
Gerritsz shouted an order.
Sailors sprang to the shrouds to
to take-in sail as the man at the
whipstaff luffed to the wind.
The anchor splashed into the
sparkling sea. Quick hands
hoisted the yawl from its
lashings athwartship before
the mainmast. Small kegs of
wine and water, a package of
food, were hurriedly fetched
with the speed of action already
planned. A crew scaled over
into the floating yawl. Gerritsz
followed them. Almost before
the last smoke had completely
faded, the oars were out.
Pelsaert returned his gaze to
the shore.
YESTERDAY they had
1 departed at last from the
disastrous reefs of Houtman’s
Abrolhos, convinced that all that
might be saved from the wreck
of the ship Batavia had been
fished-up by their divers; con-
vinced also that on none of the
many isles was the lost master
of the yacht Sardam to be found.
As if already not enough lives
had been destroyed, Sardam’s
skipper Jacob Jacobs and four
men had been blown away a
month earlier, when sent to
scour sedulously, for flotsam,
some of the small islands and
dry reefs west of the wreck. At
first the Commandeur and the
steersmen had daily expected that
Jacobs had run for shelter
before a sudden squall to one
of the neighboring isles; when
the Sardam’s boat did not appear
in calmer weather, the yawl had
gone out in search fruitlessly.
Yet had hope risen afresh
when on one marvellous still,
clear morning, contrary to all
experience, columns of smoke
were seen rising to the north-
east, like signals; wherefor it
was possible that Jacobs had
run before the south-west winds
to the mainland, and been
unable to return. For this
reason, departing finally from
the Abrolhos, the yacht Sardam
had sailed east to the South-
land.
At noon the day before they
had watched the unknown
continent rise from the eastern
horizon and had sailed to within
a mile of the beach; but they
saw no sign of any man. Late
in the afternoon some smoke
had arisen ; but it. blew away
immediately. They had anchored
in high hope. The smoke stayed
away and no one appeared on
the beach; so that they had
come to the sad conclusion that
the smoke had arisen from fires
lit by inhabitants who did not
dare appear.
Now, once more, Pelsaert felt
his heart shrink. He saw only
the sparkling sea, the white
dunes, the yawl diminishing fast
as the men pulled shorewards
with good speed. So entirely
was he given-over to despond-
ency that there was something
miraculous in the swift rising
of a fresh column, thicker and
darker; and another and
another. So apt was the response
that he no longer felt doubt :
the yawl had been seen from
the land: there were watchful
eyes and signalling hands at
work!
Satisfied of the presence of
men, Hollanders or savages, he


niWette Blades
tt\* e A $^ D,SPEI,s “
.XUS
:
m
&
HMN
a
*
.
i
w
%
- --
□
•V'.'.
l\) Q
r
®4(/
6/7/
It costs no more to buy Blue Gillette Blades
in a dispenser! Factory-sharp blades, that
give you the best shave you've ever had,
are unwrapped ready to slip from dispenser
to razor instantly, and there's a place for
used blades, too! You can use the dispenser
with any razor, but for superspeed shaving,
use with the Gillette quick-action razor.
Superspeed Sets cost from as little as 10/6.
in a
AND...a place for used blades
/nOBCTMCHAROB
FOR WSPINSLRJ
Gillette
10-BLADE DISPENSER 44
10-BLADE PACKET, 4/4
5-BLADE PACKET, 2/2
CIS7A
turned from scrutiny and called
for a ship’s boy. “Watch well,”
he said. “If anything pf
importance occurs yonder, run
at once to inform me. Otherwise,
wait till the yawl shows up
close enough to count heads
before I am called. I have work
to do in the great-cabin.”
The sun lay well over to the
west before the boy came. By
the time Pelsaert reached the
quarterdeck the yawl was clearly
in sight. A dozen ready voices
were raised to tell the Com-
mandeur that only those who
had left the yacht returned.
“What did you find? Noth-
ing?” he presently asked
Gerritsz.
“No sign of our men. I don’t
believe shod feet have ever
touched that particular earth
before,” said the steersman.
“But there were naked footprints
in plenty, little and big.”
“Did you come up with the
blacks?” Pelsaert demanded
eagerly.
“They were not to be seen.
If they were close by, they lay
hidden. We called, we used
every device, laying out food
and some of the toys as you
ordered, but none appeared. All
was silence, and the beach
empty. We struck inland a
short way. Round a steep corner
we found fresh water, as you
guessed. It was brackish to the
side of the sea but grew fresh
inland. And from this water
many small footpaths ran yet
further inland to low mountains,
where much smoke arose.”
In silence Pelsaert twisted his
gold chain.
“It does not seem the will of
God that we should find Jacob,”
said Gerritsz, after a time.
“He was a good man. That
yet more innocent people should
have died on account of a reck-
less skipper like Ariaen who
through arrogance wrecked the
ship Batavia, and of yet more
evil men who preyed on their
comrades like tigers .. . Gerritsz,
wa’ll not wait longer by this
coast. Let us put ashore, here
and now, the two men we have
sentenced to be left behind.”
“I’d thought it your purpose
to set them further north where
before you yourself saw black
men, although then seeing no
sign of inhabitants here.”
“So. But since we can now
be certain that this cove is also
inhabited, and you with your
own eyes have seen fresh water,
which is more than ever I saw
in quantity above, let us delay
no more. Put over that sampan
we brought for the diving. It
will serve. So soon as you’re
prepared, have the two con-
demned brought above and
summon all the people to bear
witness to the carrying-out of
the sentence. I passed the hours
writing an order all that
remains to add is your signa-
ture.”
OHORTLY afterwards the
sound of a trumpet blew
over the decks and away towards
the unknown land.
A rustle of excitement stirred
the crowd. Necks craned as
word of what went forward flew
from mouth to mouth. It was
seen that though the yawl once
more lay lashed before the
mainmast, the sampan had taken
its place alongside the yacht
and that sailors had loaded into
it many items; yet stayed not
aboard themselves.
Expectantly the rescued
people and the yacht’s crew
thronged waist and forecastle,
many clinging in the shrouds
the better to see. Presently a
handful of soldiers picked from
amongst the castaways was set
to keep clear a space abaft the
mainmast.
The Commandeur appeared,
climbing halfway up the ladder
to the poop. The uppersteers-
man Gerritsz joined him ; and
the Predikant. The chief-
boatswain stood awaiting the
prisoners.
They came forth hustled by
their guards, blinking in the
sunlight, the chains still on their
legs, their hands bound.
“Loose them,” cried Pelsaert.
It was a terrible thing to leave
behind in an unknown land
these two young men ; yet it
was the fate begged and im-
plored by the cabin servant Jan
Pelgrom de Bye, a pallid youth,
thin and beardless, who had
wept and prayed at the gallows
as the rope went round his neck,
screaming that he was too young
to die. Though that thought had
not entered his vicious mind
when he killed younger boys and
children, back on the islands!
Pelsaert passed a hand over
his eyes. He had been sickened
by the responsibility of those
gruesome hangings; yet he and
the Council of the yacht Sardam
saw as one man that to carry to
Java such a company of men,
many doubtless still secretly
corrupted by past evil, with their
known leaders yet alive amongst
them, was but to invite further
effort to mutiny on a yacht
carrying salvaged treasure and
manned by no more than 22 ;
and when of the four-score they
had rescued, but half had
remained loyal to the Company ;
or, by God’s truth, to decent
humanity!
Wherefor they had put to
death the principal culprits; but
at the last moment it had not
been difficult for him to mix
mercy with justice and commute
the final hanging to lesser
punishment, leaving the fate
of this wretched whimpering
youth in the hands of God.
Pelgrom was still whimpering.
But as Gillis Phillipsz, the black-
smith, stepped forward to knock
apart the chains, the other con-
demned smiled.
Weeks of confinement had not
greatly affected the soldier
Wouter Loos, still hard and
brown as wood. At four-and-
twenty, thought Pelsaert, a man s
vigor took many stiff blows to
soften it; and there lingered a
core perhaps not altogether cor-
rupted in this fellow: he had
refused more than once to kill
wantonly.
Nonetheless, he had been
elected captain of the murderers
when their first leader was cap-
tured by those who had remained
loyal; he had sworn that
bloodied band to his own
service; he had continued to
attack the loyalists on their
separate island ; he had come
at the yacht on its arrival to
succor the wrecked people, plan-
ning to seize it by violence. He
was a dangerous man.
They might well have hanged
him also, had they not chosen
to give grace before justice, to
sentence him to be set ashore
along with the reprieved youth.
That Wouter Loos had courage
was evident; his brown eyes
were bright and alert above the
thrust of his nose and the tawny
luxuriance of his beard. He
flexed his loosed arms and legs,
and held up his head boldly.
Pelgrom’s whimpers grew to
a scream. The boatswain boxed
his ear and bade him get into the
stout shirt the Commandeur had
issued to replace his rags.
“We’ll not suffer the Company
disgraced in front of a lot of
naked savages,” said the boat-
swain. “You can at least give
the appearance of a proper
Hollander. Cease that blubber-
ing! I could hang you as neat
from the yard as from the
gallows, suppose the Com-
mandeur should this moment
change his mind. You got your-
self off once with your scream-
ing, but such a tide doesn’t run
twice for a poisoned eel like
you! ”
The onlookers laughed and
began to call out. Pelsaert
raised his hand. He was in no
mind for levity. Yet when the
Predikant whispered in his ear
to know if he might admonish
the condemned, he replied
shortly, “No. It grows late and
they will need to reach the coast
in the light for their safety’s
sake.”
vyTIEREON he lifted his
’’ voice and called loudly:
“Wouter Loos! Jan Pelgrom de
Bye!”
The young men turned to face
him.
“Your sentences have already,
back at the island of Batavia’s
Graveyard, been read publicly
so that all men know the judg-
ment passed by the Council of
this yacht on your many evil
deeds. The day is far spent,
therefore these shall not be read
again. Nonetheless, before I
hand to you, Wouter Loos, this
document bearing your instruc-
tions, I propose to publish it
also, so that you may both hear
it with your sober ears and all
here present bear witness to the
fact.”
The wind freshened,
“Bring them closer,” com-
manded Pelsaert.
He unfolded a large sheet of
paper covered with his own clear
handwriting. Lifting his voice,
he spoke into a silence disturbed
only by the thud of small waves
and the thrum of the shrouds:
“Instructions for Wouter Loos
and Jan Pelgrom de Bye van
Bemmel, both death-deserving
delinquents, who, on account
of various considerations, are to
be put here on the main South-
land.
“With a sampan or yawl,
which they will retain with all
its appurtenances, in order to
make shift with such ; and shall
see that, with this southerly wind
here now blowing along the
coast, they can reach, according
to guess, up to 25- to 24-degrees
latitude, which is about 150-
miles from this place ; in order
to consider, observing good
(Continued on page 34)


CHATEAU TANUNOA
(Clipper Ships No
The Fastest Clipper
Australia’s lusty trade expansion of the 1850’s
was directly responsible for the building and
subsequent ocean triumphs of some of the finest
sailing ships the world has seen —the speedy,
beautiful Clippers which circumnavigated the
globe, bringing eager migrants to these shores
and bearing our gold and wool to the Motherland.
One of the greatest of these white-winged flyers
was the “Lightning.”
This sleek 1468-ton, American-built Clipper, which
has been described as “one of the most remarkable
wooden vessels ever built." was the first of several
emigrant ships designed by the famous Donald McKay
of Boston, for James Baines & Co. of Liverpool,
founders of the Black Ball Line. She was the answer
to the challenge of the rival White Star Company s
popular liner “Red Jacket” whose performances she
was destined to out-shine. Immensely strong aloft,
she could carry an enormous press of canvas in strong
winds, and on her maiden voyage to Liverpool she
logged 436 miles in one period of 24 hours, which gives
her riaim to being the swiftest sailing ship that ever
put to sea.
The “Lightning” sailed on her first passage to
Australia on May 14, 1854, and under the command of
Captain James (“Bully") Forbes, formerly master of
the pioneer Black Bailer, the “Marco Polo," she
reached Melbourne in 77 days and returned Home,
bearing Australian gold worth £1,000,000, m the
record time of 63 days. In following years this
dashing Clipper—whose figurehead was a young
woman with flowing white robes and streaming hair,
who carried a golden thunderbolt in her outstretched
hand—was commanded successively by Captain
Anthony Enright (a celebrated shipmaster), Captain
Byrne and Captain Henry Jones. Her busy career m
the Australian trade continued until October 1869,
when she was destroyed by fire while loading wool at
Geelong. In her time she made many splendid
voyages in rivalry with the "Red Jacket” and remained
to the end one of the proudest of the Clipper queens.
Remember always have a bottle in the house
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Agents in N.S.W
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
FLOOD
By GWEN DALTON HOOKER
SHORTLY after dawn it
became clear that the river
could not be held. It had
already passed all previous
high-water marks. The dark,
muddy torrent, chopped and toss-
ing like a stormy sea, was as
irresistible as an inrushing tide.
It seemed only a matter of time
before it topped the embankment
and spread out to cover the land.
By ten-o’clock, the fight was
over.
“We’ve had it,” someone said,
in a voice cracked with shouting,
“and it’s still coming down,
according to the radio.”
As though these words had
been a signal, the rain, which
been driving down since the day
before, became more intense.
It beat on the backs of the
retreating men and tore at their
clothes. Their feet sank deep into
the muddy ground. The very air
seemed turned to water. Visi-
bility diminished, it was like
looking at the world through
streaky glass.
And all the time, the flood was
rising.
Old Mr. Moorehead stood on
his veranda and watched the
water come. He was alone,
having sent the hands off some
time before. He would follow
later, he had said. But he made
no move to leave the homestead.
Nothing more could be saved.
All transport was needed for
humans and stock. When the
water swirled across the
veranda and entered the house,
Mr. Moorehead turned and went
inside. There was a deliberate-
ness, a calm, about all his actions,
although, in fact, he had not
given any thought to what he
would do in this crisis.
He pushed a stepladder under
the skylight and clambered out
onto the roof. From here, stand-
ing, he could see around him on
all four sides. The flat country
was completely covered. The
muddy waters rose slowly, creep-
ing imperceptibly up the walls of
the house, augmented all the time
by the overflow of the main flood
and the down-driving rain. The
sound of the distant river was
like a high wind roaring.
Mr. Moorehead made his way
to the western chimneystack. He
settled himself down carefully,
so that the stack afforded some
protection against the rain.
Dead animals, trees, fragments
of houses were borne along on
the slow waters. Every now and
then something would crash into
the house. Whenever this
happened Mr. Moorehead would
lean a little closer to the chimney-
stack. He did not wish to slide,
or be shaken, off the sloping
roof, but the expression of his
face did not change. He con-
tinued to stare fixedly at the
flood, as though it were a
stealthily-advancing enemy to
whom he refused to show an
instant’s weakness. His eyes were
like grey stones.
TJTE had been sitting like this
for a long time when he
heard a voice call out.
“Dad! Are you there, Dad?”
A flat-bottomed boat appeared
around the corner of the house.
It held a woman and a man. If
Mr. Moorehead observed them,
he made no sign.
The man uttered an exclama-
tion.
“Mr. Moorehead! I say, Pop,
we’re here. Come on!”
When nothing happened, Dave
Lawson turned and said some-
thing to his wife. They talked
briefly together, then Lawson slid
overboard and entered the house.
A minute later he clambered up
through the skylight and onto the
roof. *
“Look, Mr. Moorehead, if
you get down into the boat, we’ll
be clear in a minute or two.
Come along.”
The old man seemed to with-
draw into his oilskins like a
tortoise into its shell. All that
could be seen was his rigid face
and the flinty eyes.
“It’s no use arguing with him,
Dave,” Verne Lawson called.
“Don’t try, he won’t listen. Just
get him down, any way you can.”
He was like this when Mum
died, she added, but she did not
say it aloud. She shed a few
tears quietly, unobserved, and
wiped them away with the back
of her hand.
Dave Lawson stared for a
moment at the hunched figure of
the old man, then stooped
quickly, got his arms around the
shoulders and under the knees,
and heaved him up. Mr. Moore-
head did not struggle, but he
didn’t help either. He simply
refused to be a part of what was
taking place. His body was a
dead weight in the young man’s
arms.
With his wife’s help, Lawson
got his father-in-law into the
boat. Then he took up the oars
and began the journey back to
town.
“We’ll go to the town hall,”
Mrs. Lawson said, touching her
father on the arm. “We’ll stay
there till all this is over. It’ll go
down in a day or two; you’ll
see.”
Mr. Moorehead turned his
head away. Where the boat was
now, a week before he had
walked a free man on his own
land, and he had found life good.
Now, the flood-stink was like
stale bilge.
“We’ve had floods like this
before,” Mrs. Lawson went on,
beseeching him. “We’ve come
through them all right. Look
at Dave and me. Our new house,
all the furniture. We haven’t got <
a thing. But we’ll start again.
Won’t we, Dave?”
Mr. Moorehead looked at her
then. “You’re young,” he said,
and withdrew into himself.
Mrs. Lawson shrugged hope-
lessly. “Give me an oar, Dave.
We’d better get a move on.”
TT was a long row between
the Moorehead farm and the
town’s main street, but the
Lawsons had deliberately come
out alone. Veme Lawson had
divined her father’s mood some
days before, and had wondered
then whether he would give
trouble.
When he had not appeared in
the town she had guessed some-
thing was wrong. AH the other
men of the district had reached
safety except him. Vaguely
aware of what to expect she had
persuaded her husband to come
alone, to save the old man
embarrassment. But she had not
expected this weighted silence.
It frightened her. He seemed to
have no life left in him at all.
The boat bumped into some-
thing and jerked to one side.
“Careful,” Lawson warned.
“Uneven ground here. Damn the
rain. It’s coming down again.
You’d better bail her, Verne.
Give me the oar.”
Close-by, they came upon a
goat, stranded upon a patch of
high ground. It was a small
white beast, and it bleated in a
melancholy fashion as they came
near. Its hide was matted wet
and dirty with scum; it looked
as though an old blanket had
been thrown across it.
Lawson picked up the goat and
heaved it into the boat. It
shivered for a moment or two,
then settled down happily
enough.
“One goat!” Mr. Moorehead
uttered.
“Every little helps,” Lawson
replied, and he resumed his row-
ing. Mr. Moorehead watched
him, a sour smile turning his
lips down. It seemed almost that
he did not wish them to reach
safety.
'T'HE interior of the town-hall
A with its hastily-assembled beds
and cluttered activity resembled
an emergency-hospital clearing-
station. Mr. Moorehead did not
look around him, however. He
stood stock-still while Lawson
stripped his oilskins off him and
then he allowed himself to be led
over to a bed.
He sat down, staring at the
floor, just as, a short while
before, he had stared at the rising
waters. He paid no attention
whatsoever to what was going on
in the crowded hall.
A man came«and sat beside
him.
“Thought something had
happened to you, Joe. I’ve been
here since last night.”
Mr. Moorehead looked up.
Fred Tingle. His gaze sank
down again.
“You must have passed my
place on the way in. How was
it?” said Tingle.
Mr. Moorehead grunted. “No
idea.”
Tingle looked oddly relieved.
“Well, that’s that. It’s really had
it this time.”
He became restive at the
other's silence, and tried again.
“This is the worst flood in
living memory, Joe. I was talk-
ing to a newspaperman. It’ll
finish the area, for good, this
time.”
Mr. Moorehead looked at him
with distaste. “There’ve been
floods before.”
* “Not like this. And what’s the
use, anyway? Five years, and
along comes another a bit bigger.
I’m not hanging around for
that.”
He Waited for the question
which did not come. Drawing a
breath, he resumed his explana-
tions.
“I’m going down to my son’s
place. He’s always at me to give
him a hand.”
Mr. Moorehead glanced up
again. “Owns a shop, doesn’t
he?”
“That’s right. Smallgoods.”
“Should suit you.” The sneer
was vicious.
“Yes. It’s a good business.
Going ahead. Better than this.”
Tingle waved a hand, to take in
the crowded hall.
A waterlogged black rooster
had alighted uneasily on the
piano. As though it could bear
its altered circumstances no
longer, it suddenly emitted a
piercing “Cock-a-doodle-doo! ”
People ran from all over the
place to seize the shrieking bird
and carry it outside. Tingle
laughed uneasily.
“See wlst I mean? That
biased bird’s got the right idea.
The land’s had it.”
He looked hopefully at Mr.
Moorehead, clearly expecting
confirmation of his sentiments.
Silence.
“What are you going to do,
Joe?”
“Me? Do?”
“Going over with your
daughter, I suppose? They could
farm your place, too —what’s left
of it. Or you could sell out, like
me.”
“You won’t get much of a
price.”
Tingle winked. “There’s
always somebody thinks he’ll
make a fortune on the land. I’ve
got contacts. There’ll be a bit
of compensation coming our
way, too, you can bet on that.
I’ll help you, if you like ; selling,
I mean. Get you a better price
than you’d get by yourself.”
“Price?”
“Yes. You want to get out
while you can. You’re older than
me, and I’ve had it.”
He stared meaningly at Mr.
Moorehead. The old man’s
approval appeared to mean a
great deal to him. He smiled
hopefully into the hard grey
eyes.
/~\UTSIDE, the rain stopped
suddenly. The voices of the
people in the hall, raised against
the sound of the rain, rang loudly
now, as though they were shout-
ing. Someone laughed. Unseen,
the rooster was crowing again.
Tingle looked rather like a
rooster himself as he held his
round, bald head on one side and
looked up at Mr. Moorehead.
“There’s going to be a stink
tomorrow, when the water starts
to go down,” he said softly. “I’m
getting down to my son’s place,
till everything’s cleared-up. Put
you up, too, if you like.”
He was quite above himself
with self-satisfaction. He had
never had Mr. Moorehead’s
attention for so long before.
Already he was beginning to
despise the old man.
“Want to come down? Send
a telegram; we can put up a
camp-bed.”
“No.”
Mr. Moorehead sat up
suddenly and stared around the
hall. He was like a man who has
been goaded awake. There were
other people' sitting on the beds;
old people, women, others who
were ill or sleeping. Everyone
else seemed to be busy. His
daughter and son-in-law were
over in the far corner, breaking
open a large crate.
Tingle needled relentlessly on.
“I suppose you’ll want to go
down to your son’s place, then,
in Sydney? Doctor, isn’t he?
Better than Verne’s. They’d
make you work there, cleaning-
up.
“I’m staying here.”
“But you’ll sell out, won’t
you?”
“Don’t be a damned fool.”
“But, Joe . . . what’s the idea?
You’re old, you’ve got to get out
sometime. What’s the use of
going on at our age?”
“I don’t know!” Mr. Moore-
head shouted, furious at the
question. Tingle’s beseeching
eyes and open mouth seemed to
hang in the air before him. “You
can do what you please.”
TJE brushed Tingle off his mind
as though he were an insect.
He found himself on his feet,
walking briskly across the hall to
the far corner, where the
Lawsons were busy.
“What’s in this?” he de-
manded, peering at the crate.
“Tomorrow’s dinner. Lend a
hand, will you?”
The old man began sorting
out the little parcels. After a
while, he began to whistle.
Lawson sent his wife a quick
wink.
“What were you and Tingle
talking about, Pop? He’s star-
ing at you as though you’d stolen
his last penny.”
Mr. Moorehead felt a pang of
compunction. “Go over and talk
to him, Verne,” he directed.
“He wants someone to tell him
he’s doing the right thing. Clear-
ing out. Getting old, I suppose.”
Veme went. Mr. Moorehead
winked at his son-in-law, and
resumed the stacking of little
parcels.


THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
NOTHING EQUALS
I WUMMn MUM tmUBKt I
warmra y
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
UR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of Mazing tire through open
or closed front. Modem
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel reasonably
priced.
m
:: :
m
-
tael swing (he ’’Wanmar" ACIUAUI
COSTS NOTHING
Installs in Booms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super
De Luie
4 r Large Capacity Owr
8,000 cu- ft.
■k Special large firebcs for
long burning withowr
attention.
Extra large hotplate hr
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TLBES MAKE THK
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARM RAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built into the nrebox.
The air in the room passes through these tabes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part off
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVER!
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Cballis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Wannray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
Morning Glory
By M. THOM
THE jab of an angry voice
woke her. Her name
filtered to her through the
wall. It cut across her
usual waking thoughts. She
discarded them abruptly, was
awake and forcing on her
clothes.
Mrs. Brown’s voice. Lorna
pushed her arms through. Now
Joyce’s basso. Lorna’s head was
through, and she dragged at her
crooked skirt. Was that thing
sneaking on her, carrying tales
again? She hurried out and
presented herself challengingly
in the kitchen-doorway.
A furious figure confronted
her, hair streaming, no make-up,
drab, acrid, screeching about an
empty vinegar-bottle which
Lorna had dared to leave on
the kitchen-table.
“I never realised it was empty.
I thought it belonged,” Lorna
protested.
“Of course you could see it
was empty. I’m not going to
run after servants. Do you
expect me to pick it up, and
put it in the garbage-tin?”
Contemptuously she stared,
and it was unpleasant to see that
pale and puffy face.
“I’m not a liar, and I didn't
know it was empty, and for
goodness’ sake don’t make such
a fuss about nothing,” Lorna
shouted, equally contemptuous.
At that moment there was a
knock at the door, and Joyce,
hitherto stunned, moved from
the kitchen-stove to the door.
There was Frank, the butcher,
in his black vest, all the seams
of his reddened face and the
gleam of his glasses expressing
glee at walking into a row. All
the way from the killing-pen and
his “shop,” past the jackeroo’s
quarters and the stables, and
down the long final stretch, he
had been anticipating his daily
peep into the tantalising
privacies of the homestead. Mrs.
Brown, perhaps relieved by this
diversion, walked away to give
her order and to hear any
scandal he might have.
Lorna’s day was a progress
of rooms, broken by early
morning-tea, breakfast, lunch,
and the evening meal. Making
the beds was pleasant, because
the flowering trees and shrubs
outside the veranda were thick
and sweet; doing Mr. Jensen’s
dressing-room was intriguing,
and doing Mrs. Brown’s dress-
ing-room was an awful strain
because it was possible you
might just leave a spot some-
where in that expanse of pink.
Each job was accompanied by
a rise in temperature; and no
matter how she tried to outdo
herself and to console herself
with the thought of the. holiday
this would bring her, Lorna
never managed to get beyond
the second toilet by morning-
tea-time. Down on her knees,
grinding them hurriedly as she
tried to reach every corner
without moving, Lorna could
now hear the preparations for
tea.
“Lorna! ”
Hurriedly she stepped back-
wards onto the veranda, and
put her foot on the salt-scourged
body of a frog. Mrs. Brown’s
campaign against the frogs that
sported in the toilet-bowls and
laid their fervent little faces in
the jambs of innumerable doors
was intermittent but ferocious.
TN the kitchen Lorna and
•*- Scotty the old gardener
helped themselves to the cake
which was always generously
supplied. Mrs. Brown was
querulous because she still had
no cook. She couldn’t bear the
little wisps of hair that stuck
to her moist, red face, and she
had to keep running to her
room to repair herself. She had
just renewed her attack on the
stove when a plaintive cry
echoed from the far veranda of
the servants’ quarters.
“Uh, Billy again.” She turned,
directing her unhappy stare at
Scotty and Lorna. “It’s more
than I can bear. Do I have to
be burdened with Joyce’s half-
caste piccaninny? Joyce!” she
pattered sharply on her sandalled
heels to the door. “Joyce!”
Joyce paddled in, mute but
observant, the long cobweb-
brush in her dark hand.
“Go and see to Billy. He’s
crying.”
“Yes, Mrs. Brown.”
“And see that he gets some-
thing to eat.” .
“Yes, Mrs. Brown.”
There was silence except for
the little grunts Mrs. Brown gave
as she pushed the saucepans to
the back of the stove. Then all
at once came the heaving pad-
pad of Billy’s two determined
small feet, kitchen wards; now
the ragged gasp of his breath,
and there he was at the door. He
propelled himself through, and
his bright eyes seemed to try to
embrace all the forbidden
treasures of the kitchen, but,
because the time was short,
settled on the knobs of the
nearest cupboard. He darted
forward. His napkin, weighted
by a load that spoke of hours
of neglect, swung to and fro.
“Look at that!” shrieked Mrs.
Brown. “Joyce! Joyce! Get
him out of here at once and
clean him up.”
Across Joyce’s dull surface
there had seemed to ripple a
lumbering playfulness, a slight
maternal pleasure. Now she
tossed Billy aloft as if he were
a ball of cottonwool.
“You bad boy, Billy,” she
said.
“Do you know if it wasn’t for
Billy I could have a good
holiday, Joyce?” Mrs. Brown
stacked a pile of kitchen-
utensils for Joyce to wash.
“Because,” she went on, “I
certainly can’t take you to
Surfer’s Paradise, if you still
have Billy with you.”
“No, Mrs. Brown.”
“ ‘No, Mrs. Brown ; yes, Mrs.
Brown!’ Why you girls want
to go having babies I really don’t
know.”
“Oh, Mrs. Brown!” Joyce
gave a muffled shriek.
“Go on; off with you now.
Something’s got to be done about
Billy pretty soon, don’t make
any mistake about that.”
“Yes, Mrs. Brown.”
“QOMETHING’s got to be
done about Billy, Stan,”
Mrs. Brown, incongruously gay
in a sun-frock, declared at lunch-
time.
Stan Jensen looked across at
her and grunted.
“Well, send the kid away.
He’s big enough.”
“But Joyce’s mother’s got an
ulcer on her leg, and she has
the other brat, too.”
Another grunt. He helped
himself to a banana, and glanced
at her again. His prominent eyes
always looked as if they were
being pushed out by the force
of his unexpressed feelings. Bold.
yet fugitive, they seemed tol
say, “Why do you try to make
me talk? You know I hate
talking.”
“Personally, I don’t know
why you are so upset about
him,” he said now.
“Uh!” Mrs. Brown exploded,
flinging out her hand on the
table. “Can’t see why! How are
we going to Surfer’s Paradise if
we don’t get rid of Billy? Do
you think I’m going to be the
only one there without a
servant?”
Jensen frowned a little. He
hated these seasonal pilgrimages
to the coast. He hated tb leave
his garden, his office, and his
wide verandas. They were his
recreation and his peace. But,
of course, Emmy didn’t feel that
way. She wanted a bit of life.
Pity she couldn’t be truly
mistress of the place he looked
upon as his own ; she’d be more
content. But now she must go
and hold her own with every-
body else, be slighted by some,
and, like a bee, gather her share
of gossip to bring home and
buzz-over. People! Surfer’s
Paradise!
As her voice registered on his
ears again, his eyes held a look
partly tolerance, partly exas-
peration.
“Heaven knows, I’d like to
get rid of Joyce altogether, but
what can I do? At least she’ll
stay. Things come to a pretty
pass when the agent sends us
girls like Lorna who just want
to make money for a holiday.”
“She’s doing her job all right,
isn’t she?”
“Just, but you’ve got to watch
her. Joyce saw her leave the
spaces under a couple of these
chairs when she was polishing.”
“Twentyfive-feet of floor
might be a bit tough to anyone
not used to it.”
“Oh, stop being so darned
reasonable. She shouldn’t take
a job she can’t do. . . Oh, Stan,
what wouldn’t I give just for a
small and very modern flat!”
“Must we go all over that
again? You knew what my
life is when you came here to
live. The rest we can’t help;
neither you nor I.”
She opened her mouth
sharply, stopped, picked-up some
crumbs from the table, and rose
from her chair.
“I must go and take a look
at that curtain-material,” she
said.
Jensen rose too, took his pipe
from his pocket, and put an arm
about her shoulders.
OUTSIDE in the little kitchen
that was like an ante-room,
Lorna waited, impatient for the
moment she could escape and
tear off her sticky clothes.
Nothing had ever been clearly
stated about hours, but she
managed usually to finish the
lunch washing-up at about two-
o’clock. That done, she would
hurry away, and keep away till
it was time to present herself for
the evening meal.
By half-past-two, temporarily
refreshed, she stood in her
room. Billy was outside waiting
fo be entertained. She opened
the door at last.
“Hullo, hullo,” she said, wait-
ing for his smile. If he looked
bewildered or sad she would
put on a whimpering face, and
he was always delighted. She
lifted him to the head of the
sofa, and from there he hurled
himself along its length as far
as he could; again, and then
again.
The apparition of Joyce
materialised, stood for a
moment, then said, “Got some
things for Billy in a parcel
today.”
“Did you? Let's see them.”
“From the book,” Joyce
pronounced, spreading them on
the sofa and standing back to
stare at Lorna.
“Oh, they are nice, Joyce!
Look, what about giving him a
wash, and putting him in this
little red-checked suit? You do
that, and I’ll take him out under
the trees behind the laundry.”
“All right,” said Joyce slowly,
tucking Billy under her arm.
“Get something out of the book
every time.”
Presently she returned with a
new Billy, curls damp and black,
little blanched curry-face sleek
above the red-checked suit.
Once outside the confining
wire of the veranda he quickened
like a terrier sniffing rabbits.
Lorna spread the rug in the
shade of the trees behind the
laundry. To the left spread the
flat dry land with its pale, patchy
growth, like some uncouth and
discouraged species of domestic
vegetable. In front, firmly
fenced, bloomed the oasis that
was the homestead and its sur-
rounding gardens.
Drowsily she counted the days
she had yet to spend here. Billy
was dragging at a weed. The
waving lines of the heat-haze
behind him blurred the check
of his suit into a soft pink. Poor
little thing. What an event it
was just to get away from that
awful cot and that dreary
veranda.
“Billy, don’t go away, now.”
But he couldn’t come to much
harm. The ground was pretty
clear, there was nowhere for him
to get to, and the bindies would
soon drive him back to the rug.
Heavily her eyes closed.
“T ORNA! Lorna!”
Oblivion was reduced to
confusion. Something about a
vinegar-bottle. No, that wasn’t
it. There were the laundry-walls,
the trees and the rug, but no
Billy. She scrambled up, hurried
to the front of the laundry, and
there was Mrs. Brown, sharp
little nose pointed in her direc-
tion, heading a line-up of three ,
Joyce beside her, m e oquen
silence anticipating dis ,
then Billy, mud on his new suit
and looking fretful,
“Do you know what Billy did.
Got into Mr. Jensen’s garden.
Pulled up all his bulbs, jumped
on his seedlings, and dragged
the little rocks from the borders.
I just don't know what he's
going to say.”
,j s it reall y very bad?” said
Lorna, noting that Mrs. Brown
dtdn't'seem vitally upset, and
that Joyce was beginning to look
cheated.
“My word it is! Perhaps he’ll
realise now what I have to put
U p with.”
npEN days later, in the morn-
J- fflg when the air was still
coo l, the mailman drove his
truck down to the homestead
specially to pick up Joyce and
her piccaninny. She waited for
him forlornly, a matronly hat
of incred i ble depth on her tall
kanaka's head ; Billy sleepy on
her arm.
Bump-lurch, bump-lurch, went
the truck through the heat of
the day, while back at the home-
stead routine was relaxed a little.
Lorna pretended to be Joyce with
the long-cobweb-brush in her
hand, and Mrs. Brown actually
laughed.


now...
• IMPORTANT EXTRAS ARE INCLUDED IN PRICE
• PROVEN RELIABILITY A MONEY-SAVING OPERATION
: 1
NT.50.32
A.
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
POWERED BY KEROSENE OR DIESEL B.M.C. ENGINES
With every Nuffield Universal tractor there is an outstanding range of
standard equipment—equipment you don’t have to buy later. And
because the Nuffield tractor operates efficiently under even the most
extreme conditions, giving the maximum power output
with minimum fuel consumption, you save more money
and valuable time on every job. For every type of
specialised work there is a wide range of “approved-
after-test” matched implements expertly designed to
work with the tractor. Prove the Nuffield Universal
on your own land—arrange with your nearest Nuffield
dealer for a fact-proving demonstration, or mail the
coupon now. You’ll soon see why your first cost is
your last cost!
Kerosene models from £879 •
Diesel from £1,090
IMPORTANT EXTRAS
INCLUDED IN PRICE
Head, tail and side lights,
agricultural light, electric
starter, electric horn, belt
pulley unit, drawbar and
extension, heat gauge, hour
meter, foot plates, seat
cushion, canvas cover, tacho-
meter (extra on kerosene
models), spark arrester, fire
extinguisher.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor Sc Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney. _ . v
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and “Approved - after - Test’’ Matched
Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS.
Place X in this square if for school project.
.. IW
BMCI
»nt>s
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTV. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED CHARLES AMOS late of
Macleay Street Wagga Wagga.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY GRACE AMOS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1352
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you intend to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 20th August 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. McDONELL & MOFFITT. Soli-
citors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
I, PATRICIA ANN JAMES, of 31 The
Esplanade, Cronulla, heretofore called and
known by the name of PATRICIA ANN
LAURENCE hereby give public notice
that on the 14th day of May, 1956, I
formally and absolutely renounced, re-
linquished and abandoned the use of mv
surname of LAURENCE and then assumed
and adopted and determined thenceforth
on all occasions whatsoever to use and
subscribe the surname of JAMES instead
of the said surname of LAURENCE
And I give further notice that by Deed
Poll dated 14th day of May, 1956, duly
executed and attested and filed of Record
in the office of the Registrar-General on
the 6th day of June, 1956, I formally and
absolutely renounced and abandoned the
said surname of LAURENCE and declared
that I had assumed and adopted and in-
tended thenceforth upon all occasion*
whatsoever to use and subscribe the su>
name of JAMES instead of the said sur*
name of LAURENCE and so as to be at
all times thereafter called and known
and described by the said surname of
JAMES. DATED the 14th day of May,
1956.
(Sgd.) P. A. JAMES.
Witness LAWRENCE BERRY, Solicitor,
Sydney.
TO ALEC JAMES STREATFIELD for-
merly of North Perth and Glen Forest
W.A. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
PAMELA GABRIELLE STREATFIELD
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western: Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of de-
sertion by you for a continuous period
of three years or more and she is seeking
the exercise of the Court’s discretion pur-
suant to Section 27 of the Matrimonial
Causes and Personal Status Code 1948.
IF you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this Ist day of June, 1956.
G. -J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of Forrest
Place, Perth, in the State of Western
Australia, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy complete set of Gabriel
Morel’s compositions. —6336.
Wanted by student, Barton’s
Literature of N.S-W.; good price.
6337.
To buy A Modern Buccaneer, A
Romance of Corvas Tim, and My
Run Home, all by Rolf Boldrewood;
also The Bushrangers: Early Days of
Van Diemen’s Land (Melb., 1856),
Discovery and Settlement of Port
Phillip (Melb., 1856) and William
Buckley (Melb., 1856), all by James
Bon wick. —6338.
Does Anybody Know?
Is there a place in the district of
Inverness (Scotland) called Kiloinick,
possibly near Drumoinivick?
Information Sought
Why does a barometer function per-
fectly here (in the Dandenongs, Vic.)
but will not work at all at Wonbcyn
Lake on the south coast of N.S.W.?
The Meteorological Bureau, Sydney,
supplies this information: “There are
not sufficient facts provided to give a
definite answer. As Selby is about
1500 ft. above sea-level and Wonboyn
Lake much lower, it is possible that,
as the instrument-mechanism moves
to take-up the latter pressure, a small
particle of dust gets in and causes
jamming of the mechanism; this might
clear of itself when the, instrument is
returned to Selby. The trouble may
also be accounted for by the fact that,
as Wonboyn Lake is further north,
pressure-changes caused by southern
depressions are less marked, and
hence pressure is more even. It could
also be due to a combination of both
these reasons.”
* * * *
Some information on tenor Miklos
Gafni ?
Born Tjfzacsege (Hungary) on May
28, 1923, he is now an American
citizen. In recent years he has toured
throughout the U.S.A., Britain,
Canada, Central and South America,
Israel and the Middle East. In 1951
he sang before the late King George
VI and the Queen Mother, and he
has been guest-artist at the White
House for President Truman and
President Eisenhower. In 1953 he
made his operatic debut in Italy in
the leading tenor-role in “Tosca,” and
has since appeared in “Lucia di
Lammermoor,” “Forza del Destino,”
“Ballo in Maschera” and “Aida.” He
toured Australia for the A.B.C. in
1947, and has been touring again this
year.
* * * *
Reliable preparation to use on a
badly rusted galvanised-iron roof ?
Rust is corrosive destruction, and
there is no paint which will restore
the metal. Its life may be prolonged
by specially prepared roof-paint; a
good one is Metalium paint, made by
Jenson and Nicholson and stocked in
paint-stores. The worst spots should
be touched-up with one of the many
roof-sealers on the market before the
metal paint is applied. Condensation
inside the roof is an unsuspected cause
of rust eventually, and an inner coat
of paint may be advisable if not too
difficult to apply.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the writer
G. B. Lancaster ? (2) List of her
novels, with brief notes of setting or
subject-matter of each ?
(1) “G. B. Lancaster” was the pen-
name of Edith Joan Lyttleton. Born
on Dec. 18, 1874, at Campbell Town
(Tas.), as a child she was taken to
N.Z., where she lived till 1908, with
occasional visits to Australia. She
then travelled extensively, and lived
for a time in Canada, but returned
to Australia and N.Z. She died in
England in 1945. (2) Sons of Men
(1904), stories of outdoor life in N.Z.;
The Spur to Smite (1905), relating the
literary ambitions of a young man
on a sheep-station; The Tracks We
Tread (1907), pioneering in N.Z.; The
Altar Stairs (1908), fortunes of a
trader in the Pacific; Jim of the
Ranges (1910), setting in n.-e. Vic-
toria; The Honourable Peggy (1911),
rivalry of two men for a girl’s prefer-
ence; The Law Bringers (1913), set in
Canada; Fmol Divine (1917), an
idealist’s efforts to combat yellow-
fever in Central America; The
Savignys (1918), a novel of English
family-life; Pageant (1933), tracing
the history of a Tasmanian family;
The World Is Yours (1934), set in
Canada; Promenade (1938), settle-
ment in N.Z. through three genera-
tions; and Grand Parade (1943), an
attempt to do much the same thing
for Nova Scotia.
How to clean and cure a sheep-
pelt ?
The process should be begun as
soon as possible after skinning; if
skins have been kept and allowed
to become dry they must be well
soaked. First soak the skin in water
to which has been added salt to
every 2gals.; all flesh and grease
should have been taken off. In a
suitable receptacle place 2 quarts bran
and pour over it 5 or 6 quarts boiling
water, then strain. Make-up another
salt solution of 5 or 6 quarts hot
water with as much salt as it will dis-
solve. Mix the bran solution with
the salt solution, and to each gallon
of this (when not more than luke-
warm) add loz. sulphuric-acid.
Immerse the skin in this for 20min.,
stirring occasionally, when tanning
should be complete. Rinse in clear
water, and hang out to dry in a shady
place. Pull and stretch well while
drying, and when dry rub in a little
neatsfoot-oil to soften. Tack out
wool-side down when dry and rub
lightly with pumice as the oil is
worked in. There are many home-
processes; try one skin first, and if
the result is not the finish you require,
send in for another recipe. Some
experience is necessary for a good
result.
Brief Answers
Kinangop: (1) In World War I
Australia’s killed, died and missing in
the Armed Forces totalled 59,258; in
World War II 33,826. (These figures
were also printed on the “Service”
page, B. 23/5/’56.) (2) At the 1911
census Australia’s population,
exclusive of full-blood aborigines,
numbered 4,455,005; at the 1933
census it was 6,629,839 H.W.: (1)
Your thanks and appreciation have
been passed on to “Jaydee.” (2) It
was a slip of the pen in transferring
the pen-name from the beginning to
the end of your article L.J.S.:’
Write Vic. Fisheries and Game
Department. 605 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l 0.A.M.: Letter has
been posted on to her J.E.: The
Australian amateur golf-team which
toured Britain in 1954 consisted of
Doug Bachli, Victorian champion,
who won the British amateur
championship that year; Harry Ber-
wick, N.S.W. champion and former
Australian and N.Z. champion; Bill
Shephard, the 1950 S.A. champion;
Bob Stevens, 1952 Australian and S.A.
champion; Jack Coogan, Queensland
champion; Peter Heard, Australian
champion; and Sloan Morpeth, of
Victoria, captain-manager.... H.R.:
Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, the
authoress, who won the 1939 Pulitzer
Prize with The Yearling, died on Dec.
14, 1953.... J.K.: (1) A rather
difficult request to answer satis-
factorily. The 1955 Writers and
Artists’ Year Book lists established
Australian journals and magazines—
though probably you are already
acquainted with most of them. None
of your “fly-by-nights” appears to be
listed. (2) Best bet would be to keep
an eye out around the bookstalls and
newsagencies Nelly B.: (1) The
gnomon of the sundial would have to
be placed so that the long sloping
side points to the south and is parallel
to the earth’s axis. This can be done
by finding the true north and setting
the gnomon along this line so that
the sloping side is at an angle equal
to the complement of the angle of
latitude to the horizontal (angle of
latitude=9odeg.). The operation is
best done at the winter or summer
solstice. (2) Try Anthony Horderns’,
Brickfield Hill; Nock and Kirby, Ltd.,
417-421 George-street; E. Esdaiie and
Sons Pty., Ltd., 42 Hunter-street; or
H. B. Selby and Co. Pty., Ltd., 254 a
George-street—all Sydney 8.W.:
(1) No limit on the number of pars
which can be submitted at a time.
(2) Usual for the contributor to
indicate for which feature his par. is
intended, but sometimes an editorial
decision may place it on another page.
....J.M.: The Bulletin’s Wool issue
last year was B. 1/6/’55 D.W.L.:
Chaterson, Ltd., 5 Johnson’s Court,
London, E.C.4, published in the
following years these works by F.
Matthias Alexander — Man’s Supreme
Inheritance (1937 and 1946), Universal
Constant in Living (1942), The Use
of Self and Constructive Conscious
Control of the Individual (both 1946).
J.W.: Write Wilh. Wilhelmsen
Agency Pty„ Ltd., 51 William-street,
Melbourne, C. 1 Bloom: Burns
Philp and Co., Ltd., is the only com-
pany providing a service to those
islands Reader: (1) Most life-
assurance cos. with offices in Aus-
tralia issue annuities in Australian
currency on lives of persons resident
in Australia. The purchase-price for
most types of annuity depends on the
age of the person concerned. (2)
Contact any life-assurance office in
Brisbane... .H.A.8.: As far as we
can discover, neither he nor his father
was ever connected directorially with
the firm... .K. 8.: Write Harbor Trust
Commissioners, 29 Market-street,
Melbourne, C. 1.... A. 8.: It is not the
law that, because someone is injured,
someone else necessarily has to pay.
In this case the person liable in the
first instance is the person liable for
all expenses necessary to the injured
girl—that is, her parent or guardian.
It may be that the parent or guardian
has an action against the Education
Department, but that need not con-
cern the father or mother of the
boy, as the boy was not at the time
of the accident in their control.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
H.R.S.: “As their master, zagging,
courses.” No zig? M.H.: “I
wheel my thought in air.” On a
b'arrow, or a bicycle? J.K.S.:
Perhaps there’s a case for seeing clouds
as “galleons,” but why bring in Pluto
and the Styx? L.M.: No doubt
that’s just a typing error in the last
line —“To bring creation of the the
despair”—but at least it’s a lively
moment S.J.C.: Judging by the
look of that MSS. your horse has been
chewing it J.T.: How does a
blanket get “proud”? 8.M.: Not
a bad knight, as they go, but have
no idea where you could publish
him L.C.W.: Nice for children.
....“Syd. S.”: Should have been
written 50 years ago C. 8.: “We
fancied we were fairies in the wattle’s
golden glow.” Ah, very likely
A.F.: There’s a pleasant atmosphere
in them; but as poems they’re
elementary H.W.: “Guided
Missile” coming back at you
“Pennywise”: Haven’t a foolish
pound for that 0ne....P.G.: Have
duly filed the improved version—
E.P.: We have a complex about
psychoanalytical poems....D.K.:
“What I was trying to say was almost
impossible to say.” That’s just the
trouble about poetry... .E.P.:
Promising if you’re young. Other-
wise, stop making the bed
R.T.M.: “I will not call them poems,
or verse-—just thoughts.” That’s what
we’ll call them, too A.G.: There’s
a very nice rumbling, bumbling sound
in “The barnacles of smug hypocrisy.”
R.H.: We always get zephyrs
mixed-up with zebras, but the girl
should love it: —
Sigh, sigh, gentle zephyr, through the
locks of my loved-one,
And whisper her wondemess wide to the
seas.
L.J.N.: Just jingle M.E.S.:
Your ode to “The Editor’s Wastepaper
Basket,” beginning “You smug
inanimate glutton,” seems to betray
some faint feeling of irritation: of
which surely we cannot be the
innocent cause? J.S.K.: “Hoping
you and your family are all well and
happy.” Why, thank you; and hop-
ing you and yours are, too, in spite
of your poetry... .Q.H.: Fruit-poem
not crisp enough S.V.M.: Pretty
enough, but just the usual “Nightfall.”
J.D.H.: Four lines, then, of
“A Grazier’s Lament”: —
See if we can wreck the nation,
Spoil the sales and your vocation,
Down with the capitalist grazing freak
That earns you £5O a week.
J.B.: “Melinda” pretty-pretty....
G.J.L.: “Chess” too much of a
pr ob 1 em... .R.P.: Doubtful
K.S.: Irish ballads off our beat.


From Clydesdales to Filigree
A Mighty Man Was He
By D. J. HISLOP
MY own clear memories
of my father’s black-
smithing days go back
to something like 30
years ago. At that stage he had
gone into business on his own,
after working for approximately
35 years for other smiths about
the country.
There was not a great deal of
variety about the blacksmiths’
shops of those days —or, for that
matter, I suppose, of any other
day, at least since the invention
of the iron-tyred lorry or cart.
I can remember six other black-
smiths’ shops within a couple of
miles of my father’s business,
and any one of them wasn’t very
much different from any of the
rest.
Most of them were small and
built chiefly of galvanised-iron.
The windows —if they had
windows —were usually smoke-
grimed, and the floor, together
with everything else about the
place, was covered with coke-
dust.
The blacksmith —even as late
as 1924, the year in which my
father started on bis own —
usually combined his business of
smithy with that of coachbuilder
and wheelwright, half of the
premises being devoted to the
wood-working side of things,
where shafts and the like were
shaped and finished, wheels built
from the raw materials, naves,
felloes, spokes and axle-boxes
shaped, and the vehicles
assembled and painted.
Today the pattern of the
blacksmith’s shop has changed.
This was accurately cartooned
in a Bulletin “joke-block,” by
Sid Black, who depicted a husky
smith, with a nostalgic look in
his eye, saying to his mate,
“Remember when we used to
shoe great, big Clydesdales,
Joe,” while, scattered about
these two left-overs from a past
era, were shown the products of
their present labor wrought-
iron chairs, scrolls, light-stands,
fire-grates, and so forth.
Certainly, today, wrought-iron
work is one of the main sources
of income of the few remaining
blacksmiths. Largely it consists
of railings for new homes,
decorative fence-work, letter-
boxes.
Many (or most) of these
tradesmen, in their heyday, com-
bined the separate trades of
blacksmith and farrier. Often,
however, the smith was a special-
ist, who, if there was a farrier
within easy distance, left the
horse-shoeing side of the busi-
ness strictly alone.
The work of the farrier today,
incidentally, is little changed
from what it was a hundred
years ago, except that now it
largely consists of fixing light
plates on racehorses, whereas
once one of the mainstays of his
calling was, as Sid Black rightly
said, shoeing “great big Clydes-
dales.”
On the other hand, the work
of the old-time blacksmith varied
from welding a pram-axle,
brought in by some harassed
mother, to putting a 6in.-by-lin.
tyre on a dray-wheel. The weld-
ing, in the absence of oxy- or
electric-plant, was done mainly
by a combination of heat and
muscle-power, plus a consider-
able amount of professional
skill. The striker, by belting the
hammer held by the smith over
the two pieces of steel to be
welded, filled the purpose served
today by the electric-hammer.
One danger that had to be
guarded against in welding, and
which called for expert super-
vision, was that of “burning”
the steel or iron—bringing it to
too great a temperature, and
spoiling the metal. Though that
danger was then always present
in welding at high temperature,
welding in those days was other-
wise not the problem it would be
today, because much of the
material then used was iron, a
metal considerably softer and
more easily shaped than modern
steels.
To identify iron from steel the
old-time blacksmith relied on his
ears, the iron giving off a heavy,
dull sound when tapped against
the anvil, in contrast to the
sharper ring of steel.
One of the main functions of
the striker, in addition to assist-
ing in welding and shaping the
metal, lay in cutting steel,
normally achieved by the smith
holding his chisel-pointed hot-
set over the steel to be cut, and
the striker bringing his sledge-
hammer down on it again and
again.
Today the guillotine bites
through cold 2in.-by-liin. steel
like a knife cutting through
cheese ; it used to take up to a
dozen blows by the old-time
striker to complete a similar cut,
despite the fact that the steel
being worked-on would be red-
hot.
Similarly, the electric-hammer
makes the old system of shaping
metal by hand seem now a slow
and dreary process.
Even so, the blacksmith was a
craftsman, and if he was an
ingenious man there was no limit
to the scope of his work.
Many pounds must have been
saved in our own household by
the uses to which the blacksmith-
shop was put. One of the most
ambitious articles produced was
a baby’s cot, which served
through the infancy of the seven
children, a period of about 20
years, and was still as good at
the expiration of that time as on
the day it was completed. It
was collapsible, and made
entirely of steel, mainly lin.-by-
|in. flat and iin. round.
During the depression-years,
when work could not be found
for the staff, all hands combined
to build a boat in the spare-
time offering. All the steel-parts
were fashioned on the anvil, the
rowlocks and rowlock-plates,
stays, rings, anchor.
Similarly, at Christmas and
Easter —the only real breaks in
the year’s hard work, when a
four-day holiday was taken —
many of the odds-and-ends that
went down to the camping-
ground on top of the old spring-
cart were fashioned in the
blacksmith-shop ... the col-
lapsible fireplace, the stand for
the washbasin, the gidgees with
which to spear cobbler, the
frames for our crayfish-pots.
One other item regularly pro-
duced in that shop seems to have
vanished more completely even
than the blacksmith has done . ..
the iron-hoop. In our boyhood,
no male member of the family
was ever without an iron-hoop,
2ft. or 3ft. in diameter, fashioned
from fin. steel and propelled by
a crook of the same
We also had our hand-carts with
castiron wheels that had been
fitted with steel tyres in the same
manner as the wheels of horse-
drawn vehicles.
One of the most common jobs
in the shop was the re-tyring of
wooden wheels of carts or
lorries. These jobs almost
invariably came in during the
summer months, when the black-
smith had his busiest period, due
simply to the effect of the
seasonal heat on wood- and
iron-work, mainly the tyres of
vehicles.
Indeed, the expansion of the
iron in the tyres was one of the
real reasons for the smith’s
existence. Repairing the damage
caused by that expansion
involved shortening tyres or
making new ones, with also,
quite often, the replacing of
spokes or felloes that had worn
or shrunk under excessive heat.
The job of fitting tyres to
wheels was one of the most
spectacular in the trade. There
was a heavy circular steel-plate
about 6ft. in diameter out in the
yard, and on this the wheel to
be tyred was laid. Blocks placed
under the felloes (or rim-
sections) kept them off the steel-
plate, and the wheel was securely
anchored to a rod bedded in the
plate and passing up through the
axle-box in the centre of the
wheel.
The tyre, tailor-made to the
exact measurements of the
wheel, naturally could not in its
cold state be fitted on to the rim.
Within a handy distance of the
steel - plate it was laid on
supports a few inches off the
ground, and a fire was built
under and around it. As soon
as the tyre was red-hot it was
lifted by three or four pairs of
tongs, placed over the wheel and
tapped into position over the
smouldering rim.
Then, as the head man walked
round the wheel, belting the
cooling tyre into its permanent
position, others followed behind
him carrying kerosene-buckets
filled with water which, gushing
through a hole in a bottom
corner, prevented further burn-
ing of the wood and at the same
time rapidly brought about the
contraction which secured rim
and tyre immovably together.
The day’s work began at
7.20 a.m. There was no break
until lunch-time at midday,
when the blackened old tin-billy
was dragged out of its recess at
the side of the anvil and brought
to the boil in a minute over the
forge. There was always a
spare mug for anyone who
happened to be about at the
time.
Conversation would then
range over politics (always popu-
lar), football, fishing, and par-
ticularly (at the time of which I
write) the future of the horse.
For, 30 years ago, the repair and
manufacture of motor-springs
and the welding and shaping of
iron for motor-trucks they
were usually motor -lorries then
—was becoming an important
part of the daily work of the
blacksmith.
Even so, the abandonment of
the horse as a major figure in
the nation’s transport still
seemed beyond the realm of
possibility. Many smiths recon-
ciled themselves to the fact that
the day of the horse in the
metropolitan area was indeed
passing, but few visualised his
total eclipse in country dis-
tricts, where, it was thought, the
more primitive conditions away
from made roadways offered
obstacles that could never be
adequately coped with by the
motor-driven vehicle!
Lunch (and discussion) over,
back to work—on, say, the tyre-
shrinker, one of the largest
pieces of machinery in the shop,
and the operation of it a mystery
to all but the craft; or perhaps
on the cumbersome, many-
cogged tyre-bender, the wheel-
gauges, or some other item of
the smithy’s installations.
The blacksmith’s shop was no
model workshop. Much of the
floor consisted of heavy wooden
sleepers, the cracks between
them filled with coke-dust. The
rest of the floor consisted of
burnt-out remnants of the coke-
fires that continually roared and
whined in the forge. Coke-
cinders were scattered all over
the yard outside the shop and
formed the roadway in from
the entrance-gate.
Coke-dust lay everywhere.
Whenever the forge was started-
up dust would fly away from it
as the blower sent its shafts of
air up through the coke. Some
of it would go straight up
through the hole cut in the iron
roof for the exit of the smoke,
but most of it would be scattered
about the shop, covering the
tools and the old desk and chair
in the corner.
It lay on the documents on
the old spike-file, and it covered
the petty-cash and envelopes and
billheads tucked-away in the
drawers of the desk. A con-
siderable amount of it settled on
the workmen themselves, in their
hair and on their clothes.
One of the less-coveted tasks
in the shop was the breaking-up
of the coke, which arrived in
pieces of up to 3in.-diameter and
had to be broken into pieces
nearer lin. The reduction in
size was achieved by the simple
process of putting the coke in an
iron tray and dropping a 101 b.
sledgehammer on it again and
again.
The attire of the blacksmith
was fairly standard. It con-
sisted of heavy boots, dark
working-trousers, a leather belt,
leather apron and a heavy
flannel-shirt. Flannel-shirts are
not nearly as popular today, but
in those days they were almost
a symbol of the blacksmith’s
trade. They were short-sleeved,
roomy, and, being collarless,
were more comfortable about
the neck than a more orthodox
shirt.
One of my own most vivid
memories of the blacksmith is
the sight of him drawing a red-
hot piece of iron out of the
forge on the end of a long pair
of tongs, and then shaping it on
the anvil to the pattern required.
He had a habit of bouncing the
head of the heavy ball-pein
hammer on the anvil, then hit-
ting the iron a couple of blows,
then again making the hammer
dance on the anvil while he con-
sidered the making of the next
stroke. It was all part of a
pattern, a pattern that made real
music, from the most primitive
tools, for the ears of those
attuned to it.
Today, particularly in the
cities, the blacksmith as we knew
him, even as recently as 30 years
ago, is little more
than a figure of
history. His old
hand-stocks and
-dies have been
replaced by modern
screwing-machines,
his drills and hack-
saws, guillotine and
hammer are electri-
cally driven.
Only two of his oldest friends,
the two true symbols of his
trade, remain unchanged his
forge and his anvil. When they
go, then truly will the blacksmith
be finished.


881 b i Sji =|jßj|
/''.-sW/.-'
m
■
PiU
1
I
»»:•:• •
lamps
Jwrn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
SPORTIN G NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUTF
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
When three-year-old Landy
started the season with succes-
sive wins at Randwick and at
Rosehill he was hailed as a
potential top-class performer.
Then the rot set in and Landy
strung together the wonderfully
consistent but still most dis-
heartening performance of a
dozen minor platings.
With that background, Landy
was taken to Brisbane for the
big racing there, and maybe the
change of climate had something
to do with his at last rewarding
his trainer’s confidence by down-
ing two other Sydney-trained
gallopers, Electro and Prince
Cortauld, in last Saturday’s
Moreton Handicap.
Trainer T. J. Smith may now
set Landy for the Doomben Cup
to be run over 11 furlongs, less
22yds., on July 14. No fewer
than five of Landy’s stablemates
have also been nominated for
that big winter event, including
Brisbane Cup winner Redcraze.
Landy’s relations include two
A.J.C. St. Leger winners,
Monarch and Avenger.
Aboukir’s stylish win in the
Eagle Farm Flying on Saturday
has brought him right into the
picture for the first leg of the
Doomben Ten Thousand and
Cup double, and that track
should suit him admirably.
New Zealander Redcraze, 8-
to-1 winner of the Brisbane Cup
from Caranna and Beaupa, won
several races in the Dominion
and had also been successful in
Melbourne, but the Q.T.C. two-
miler was his most important
win to date. Two days before
the Cup he had won the weight-
for-age O’Shea Stakes. He
added the Cup in the smart time
of 3.22. Redcraze didn’t race at
two-years, which probably
helped him to reach Cups
standard. He is by Red Mars
(imp.), sire of Red Jester, while
his dam, Myarion, was got by
Myosotis (imp.) from Miss Mar-
tarma by Martarma.
The steeplechasing in Mel-
bourne this winter has been
magnificent, and the M.R.C.
Steeplechase at Caulfield on
Saturday was another cracker-
jack race, with the 13 runners
packed together for much of the
way, and only one was pulled
up. Pedro’s Pride, unimpressive
when she photo-finished Lime
Beau at the previous Caulfield
meeting, evidently has improved
a ton, for she led most of the
way, beat off challengers, and
clearly defeated McHale and
Marten.
Pedro’s Pride is a Don Pedro
mare, big and round like her sire,
and has his courage. She was
going away at the end in her
Caulfield win. The most notable
failure in the race was Teedum,
but the big fellow was forced,
in the packed field, into a couple
of inexpert jumps, and they took
the enthusiasm out of him with
his 12st.
With the G.N.s a month off,
the favorites, Redfield and Bold
Flare, look a likely double. Red-
field was not too experienced last
year, when he ran second; his
win at Flemington in May was
convincing, and he will prob-
ably have Brian Smith on top.
The other hurdlers, with the
exception of Kingsmore, have
not been over-impressive so far.
Bold Flare was not judiciously
ridden when Allard beat him in
the long ’chase on the Queen’s
Birthday ; he was sprinted away
from the field twice, and just
failed. The South Australians
make few unprofitable trips to
Melbourne with jumpers, and
they have made French Knight
equal second-favorite. He has
won a string of jumping races,
but none, so far, over Fleming-
ton. Perhaps the best second-
leg with Redfield, other than
Bold Flare, may be Pedro’s
Pride.
Full-brothers rarely win at the
same race-meeting, but at Caul-
field sons of Comic Court (who
is getting a run of winners at
Melbourne fixtures and also in
Sydney) won successive events.
They were two-year-old Droll
Prince in the mile race for that
age-group and three-year-old
Desert Court in the Springvale
Handicap for three-year-olds,
run at 12 furlongs. Both horses
have shown staying ability, and
it won’t surprise should Comic
Court sire a Derby winner in
the coming season.
An interesting two-year-old
won the Second Princess
Handicap at the V.R.C. meeting
at Flemington. Having his first
race-start then, Sir Imp cleared
out from 17 opponents. Trainer
Theo Lewis saddled the colt
again five days later (last Satur-
day), and he won just as easily
the First Caulfield Two-year-old
at odds-on. Oldest progeny of
Sir Imp’s sire, Resurgent (imp.),
are two-year-olds, and few have
yet been tried. Resurgent is an
unusual sire in that he never
faced a barrier: he was imported
to New Zealand as a yearling
expressly to replace his half-
brother Admiral’s Luck, who
had died, and whose progeny
included crack performer Main-
brace. Resurgent is the only son
of The Phoenix at the stud in
“Another kiss , dear. They can do without
you for a while."
New Zealand. Sir Imp’s dam,
Imperial Gold —also unraced —
is by Ninth Duke (imp.).
Just Marguerite, a winner in
minor country districts of Vic-
toria, showed Melbourne race-
goers she is a filly with ability
when she easily won Caulfield’s
First Flinders Handicap for
three-year-olds, beating the colts.
The filly is a daughter of Bright
Hour (imp.) and Star Memories
by Great Star (imp.) from De
Joie by Beau Fils (imp.).
Regal Glitter had the easiest
win of his career when he
cantered-in with the Rosehill
Handicap, giving J. Thompson
an armchair ride. Five days
earlier he had been defeated a
neck in the A.J.C. Winter Stakes
by Penarth, also on a heavy
track, so form indicated a win
at Rosehill. His trainer, Harry
Horton, took suddenly ill on
Saturday morning, and Regal
Glitter was saddled by Vic
Thompson, trainer of Valiant
Prince, winner of the opening
event at Rosehill.
As an instance of how hard
form is to follow, Canterbury
mentor Charlie Munro saddled-
up hot favorite Sir Maynom in
the Rosehill Two - year - old
Handicap, and the colt looked a
fair wager on form. He beat
only a few home. Two races
later Munro started Sunny Hour
in the Flying. Both horses are
owned by M. J. Thurbon, a
small-betting owner. Sunny
Hour was having his second run
after a spell, was almost totally
neglected in betting—and won
easily! Sunny Hour had shaped
poorly at his prior start and
Munro didn’t fancy him at all;
on the other hand, he thought
Sir Maynom a safe bet.
One of the smartest sprinters
on Rosebery track, three-year-
old filly Royal Val won her first
race, the Rosehill Auburn
Stakes, in good style. Her
trainer, Jim O’Connor, has spent
almost a lifetime in racing ; in
the old “pony” days he turned
out many winners, one of his
best being Little Uno. Royal
Val is by Valognes (imp.), whose
progeny show to advantage in
soft track-conditions, and they
were soft enough on Saturday.
Boulder, dam of Royal Val, was
got in England and foaled in
Australia. She is by Colorado
from Deborina (imp.) by Strat-
ford. Vergure, related to Royal
Val, was a noted mudlark.
Lord Cynara, winner of the
Rosehill Highweight Handicap,
has shown ability on heavy
tracks (like most of the progeny
of MacArthur). A four-year-
old gelding, he’s from Lady
Cynara, and was bred by Mrs.
Baden Hasler, wife of the
trainer, and as Lord Cynara is a
descendant of Carbine on the
dam’s side he should stay any
distance. He has won at 11
furlongs.
Dr. C. M. Guiney appears to
have a class filly in Nydello,
winner in Maiden two-year-old
company at Randwick. She
could win a three-year-
old classic or two for him in
the coming season —say, the
V.R.C. Oaks or the A.J.C.
Adrian Knox Stakes. That is an
early impression at any rate. A
fine-looker, Nydello has breed-
ing-lines which suggest that she
will stay. She was reared on one
of New Zealand’s most noted
stud properties—Alton Lodge,
Te Kauwhata—and is by Gold
Nib (imp.) from Nizamdello by
Nizami (imp.) from Wine Card
by Paper Money (imp.). Wine
Card is a half-sister to Howe,
winner of 15 races, including
the Moonee Valley Cup.
French owner M. Pierre
Wertheimer had been trying for
a great many years to win an
English Derby before success
came his way last week, when
Lavandin, 7-to-l favorite in one
of the most open classics in
years, won the great race from
another French-owned three-
year-old, Montaval, with Irish-
bred Roister third. Fifty-year-
old W. Johnstone, who served
his apprenticeship at Randwick,
piloted Lavandin.
His win on Lavandin was
Johnstone’s third Derby success
and his 30th classic win. His
best year was 1950, when he won
England’s One Thousand
Guineas, Derby, Oaks and St.
Leger.
+ +
A Test recalled by the mishaps
to Lindwall and Davidson is the
first 1928-29 Test, in Brisbane,
when Australia was left short
by injury to Jack Gregory and
illness of Charlie Kelleway ; the
end of their cricket career, the
match signified the beginning
of Bradman’s. Another similar
short-handed Test was the third
1950-51 Test, in Sydney, when
Bailey and Wright were injured
batting, and England had to
battle through with three
bowlers.
As regards sending reinforce-
ments, surely not more than one
(to replace Davidson), if any
would be needed. Too many
players can be as bad as too few,
as Hutton’s 18-man side in Aus-
tralia found, when two or three
players ran right out of form.
* * *
Melbourne, still unbeaten in
the V.F.L., outplayed Essendon
(15.17-4.15), and almost cer-
tainly put paid to any final-four
hopes the Bombers might still
have had. The real “match of
the day” was Geelong-Carlton;
the Blues had most of the run of
the game but fell-down in front
of goal; Geelong, still running
second, in by a point (12.8-
11.13). Carlton remains in “the
four,” in fourth place, behind
Collingwood, which, in the mud,
was faster and too strong in the
air for Fitzroy, 12.10-5.7. Foot-
scray downed Richmond, 12.14-
6.8, Hawthorn’s defence kept
North goalless in all but the
second quarter, 7.13-3.12, and
South was a little too good for
St. Kilda, 14.5-11.8.
* * *
In the ninth round of Sydney’s
Rugby Union, played on water-
logged ovals, Manly, which
hasn’t been going too well
despite having Tony Miller and
other good-’uns, surprisingly beat
Randwick, which has even more
stars, 12-3 ; but ’Wick remains
on top of the table. A point
behind is Gordon, which scored
four tries to one to beat St.
George 15-9. University, three
points behind Gordon in third-
place, overwhelmed Parramatta
32-3, North, in another surprise,
toppled East 15-6, and Drum-
inoyne, behind 3-8 at half-time,
rallied to beat Eastwood 14-8.
* * # ,
It was significant that, in what
was a real mudbath from the
start, backs should score the
seven tries registered when Aus-
tralia defeated N.Z. 12-9 (6-all
at half-time) in the first Rugby
League Test at Sydney Cricket
Ground. Both sides played, in
the conditions, sound, construc-
tive football, and the game, in
doubt until the bell, was tense
and exciting right through.
Hero of the match, as he is of
the Sydney crowd, was Cessnock
winger “Bandy” Adams, a last-
minute inclusion, who scored a
runaway winning try a minute or
two from the end. All from
acute angles, not one goal was
kicked, though some were very
near.
*• * *
Over Queen’s Birthday week-
end N.S.W. suffered four Soccer
defeats —twice, in Melbourne, by
Victoria (4-1 and 5-0) and twice,
in Newcastle and in Sydney, by
Queensland (6-2 and 5-3 ; in the
second game it, too, was 5-0 at
one stage). This year Queens-
land has beaten N.S.W. four
times out of four, twice by 6-2.
On these N.S.W.-Q. games the
Northerners train regularly as a
team under an experienced
Scottish coach, whereas the
N.S.W. selectors haven’t learned
the lesson the Australian selec-
tors last year didn’t learn either
—that it’s no use pitting a team
playing as individuals, however
brilliantly, and with no great
combination, against a team of
good players playing together as
a team.
* * *
After his win in the Texas
(U.S.) International Open Golf
Championship (worth just over
£A6000) Australian Peter
Thomson is regarded by experts
as likely to be the first modern
golfer to win the British Open
title three years in succession.
* * *
Seven times the 4min.-mile has
now been broken in North
America —three times by Landy
(at the Empire Games in Van-
couver in 1954, and twice on his
recent visit to California),
once by Bannister (coming in in
front of Landy at the Empire
Games), once by Bailey, when he
lately beat Landy, and, the two
latest, the Irishman Delany and
the Dane Nielsen. Five athletes,
that is, who’ve done it, and not
one a native-born!


Between
Ourselves
-—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Observations of an Addict
Travellers’ Joys
By R. D. CHARLTON
EACH year the world seems
to become more travel-
conscious.
You telephone a friend
whom you have not seen for a
fortnight, and are informed he
is spending his summer vacation
in Venezuela. You telephone
another, and learn that he is
studying entomology with an
expedition to the Arctic regions.
When you finally track-down
a friend who still works for a
living you find that he is now
employed by a travel-agency,
and the only reason he is not in
Czechoslovakia is that he is too
busy settling other people’s
travel-problems to get away.
All this is very disturbing to
the person left behind, and he
immediately puts his name down
on the waiting-list for a cruise
in the Mediterranean in 1961,
the preceding tours having been
booked-out since 1949.
Travel broadens not only the
mind but the behind of the
traveller. The most fastidious
eater, once he has cast aside the
familiar commonplaces of home,
will eat, and continue to eat,
prodigious meals, his palate
stimulated by strange sights,
strange odors, strange foods and
a gnawing stomach.
A traveller who leaves home
looking like an attenuated bean-
pole will Return after his
wanderings with the appearance
of an over-inflated balloon-
tyre.
This is especially embarrass-
ing in the case of the female
traveller, whose touring consists
largely of a continual conflict,
so far as food is concerned,
between desire and discretion,
with the former in the ascen-
dancy. The female traveller
invariably consoles herself with
the thought that there is always
time and opportunity at home to
diet, and, meanwhile, why not
enjoy the exhilarating edibles
that travel sometimes provides?
The few people who do not
travel consider that one of the
minor mysteries of life is. the
willingness, even eagerness, with
which people desert the comforts
of home to endure the hazards,
uncertainties and general upset
of travel.
On the other hand, the travel-
addict, one who likes to lie- abed
at home, will cheerfully arise
at 5 a.m. to catch a plane to
take him away from where he
is. The lady who religiously
retires to bed at 10 p.m. on
doctor’s orders will shop all
night at Aden and be as fresh
as a ship’s breadroll the next
day.
Most travellers, seasoned or
otherwise, are camera-cranks, or
photo - fanatics. They rush
madly from place to place level-
ling lenses, shifting shutters and
bashing buttons.
In extreme cases these people
are armed with a variety of
paraphernalia, and when
fully equipped with cameras,
exposure - meters, tripods and
other accessories, resemble a
photographic-supply shop with
the staggers.
The people who are not
camera-cranks become postcard-
collectors, and in course of time
possess so many postcards that
they require a portable filing-
system.
The original idea is that all
these postcards (with the excep-
tion of those furtively purchased
from itinerant vendors in Paris
or Port Said) shall be pasted in
albums to be kept on top of the
piano at home.
There is no time to attend to
the pasting on tour, and still less
time when the tour is over ; so
that, although the tourist might
go to the extent of purchasing
albums, there the matter usually
rests.
The postcards, dog’s-eared
with much handling, are finally
given to the grandchildren to
play with or become dust-
collectors in the attic.
The collecting of souvenirs is
an essential part of travel, and
in this way much money may be
spent and much rubbish
acquired. Even the remotest
countries in the world cater for
the souvenir-seeker.
It is much more thrilling to
purchase in Lhasa a godlike
figure stamped “Souvenir of
Tibet” than to purchase it more
cheaply in Birmingham, its place
of origin.
In Switzerland, the home of
souvenir-hunters, people may
run riot amongst thousands of
Swiss-cottage musical-boxes and
tuneful toilet-roll-holders. For
the man who likes size in his
souvenirs, Switzerland will pro-
“Oh, dear, I wish John could forget he ever drove a fire-engine !”
v j de as mall y Uf e . s i ze carved
wooden brown bears as he cares
to ta k e> and the vendor doesn’t
worr y about how many 10-ton
trucks he will have to engage for
the pur p ose>
N orwav ’ prefers carved
wooden g g S • Sweden rather
f corkscrew in the form
of a small boy relieving himself ;
j ndia g strong iy f or carved
wooden f o } d j ng tables, New
Zealand for greenstone orna-
ment Holland for blue china,
Q erman y f or fancy carved
Austria for lederhose,
Scotland for tartan rugS; i re land
fQr fine WQol scarves> and
France for dirty postcards.
A collection may become not
• , / . iti i v
varied, but positi y
cosmopolitan. .
The modem tendency is for
people to commence their
travelling-career at an age which
in the previous generation
would have been occupied
exclusively in getting married,
buying a home and raising a
family. Young people have the
advantage over the older ones
in that they can tour the Con-
tinent on a shoe-string allow-
ance, hitch - hiking, hostel-
hogging and doing various other
things which are either beneath
the dignity or beyond the
physical capacity of older
people.
Half-a-dozen young people
can travel a long way in a dis-
carded London taxi, even if they
push it or are towed for most of
the distance.
The general run of traveller
is a sitting - shot for ship-
stewards, railway-porters, taxi-
drivers, commissionaires, hotel
waiters, chambermaids, post-
card - vendors, street photo-
graphers and travel-agencies.
For the most insignificant
service, the traveller, unless
thoroughly experienced, will feel
obliged to tip; and to avoid any
suggestion of niggardliness he
usually errs on the side of
generosity.
In these circumstances, his
departure from a hotel of any
standing can be a melancholy
series of handouts to persons he
will never see again and who do
not display (once the tip has
been conferred) the slightest
sign of wanting to see him
again.
The seasoned traveller leaves
home for an overseas journey
with one suitcase, and, having
purchased necessities as he
requires them, returns with two.
His less - experienced brother
takes a cabin-trunk, five suit-
cases, one hatbox, one shoe-bag,
one overnight-bag and a set of
golf-clubs. At Port Said he buys
two overnight-bags, the handles
of which fall to pieces the
moment he lifts them with some
weight inside.
There are, of course, various
modes of travel. The traveller
can take his choice of being
seasick in a ship, trampled in a
train, propelled in a plane,
bounced in a bus or conveyed in
a car.
With certain limitations as to
distance and destination, it is
also open to him to walk or ride
a bicycle.
As yet, submarine - cruises
have not been arranged for the
general tourist, but it can confi-
dently be expected that, in the
course of the next few years, the
monotony of travel will be
varied by the use of submarines,
sleighs, balloons, dogcarts,
jaunting-cars, water-cycles and
rocket-jets.
Foreign languages present
some difficulties to the traveller.
The Englishman has a sublime
confidence in his ability to make
himself understood in any
country, and it is surprising how
often he gets away with it. On
the Continent, this is mainly
because many persons (particu-
larly the young ones) have a
smattering of English. However,
lack of knowledge of the local
language causes real difficulty at
times, especially when inquiring
the way.
There are various methods of
trying to overcome the language-
problem :
1. The hardest and most obvi-
ous is to learn the language.
2. Get an interpreter.
3. Speak in English with the
voice raised to twice its normal
pitch. Due to some constitu-
tional defect in foreigners, this
method is not usually successful.
4. Speak English, but pro-
nounce the words as if they were
part of the language of the per-
son being addressed. For
example, if you wish to ask a
Frenchman, “How far is it to
the station?” you would say
slowly and distinctly (making
allowance for his limited intelli-
gence), “How—far—ees—eet —
to —lee —stat —e —on? ” Even
clear and simple questions of
this nature are frequently not
understood by foreigners.
5. Purchase a phrase - book,
and laboriously pronounce or
spell each word in close con-
sultation with the book. This
method is not recommended if
you are in a hurry—e.g., to tell
a person standing on a railway-
line that the express is only
50yds. away.
6. The sign-method sometimes
succeeds when other methods
fail. If in a chemist’s shop you
vigorously scrub your finger
across your teeth, the attendant
will generally realise that you
need either a toothbrush or
some toothpaste. However, a
question like “How far is it to
the station?” in sign-language
presents considerable difficulties
and could involve a whole series
of contortions more likely to
land you in a mental-asylum
than at the station.
7. Probably the best method
when you have a smattering of
the language is a combination of
methods 4 and 6, with the inclu-
sion of such words in the par-
ticular language as may be within
your knowledge and are relevant
to the occasion.
If all these methods fail, hang
around your neck a sign, “Deaf
and Dumb —Please Help,” in the
appropriate language and you
will probably be killed with
kindness.
Now that many of the world’s
inhabitants have travelled into
every nook and comer, they are
exhibiting a tendency to burst
the bounds of commonplace
earth and go further. Their
needs are being catered for by
an enterprising travel-agency
which is accepting bookings for
the first trip to the moon. It
says much for the optimism and
credulity of the modern tourist
that, on latest reports, there is
a steady run on reservations.
One can only hope that the
initiative of all such will be
suitably rewarded and that they
will be even more moonstruck
than they are at present.
Meantime, the favorite
method of journeying to a
distant country is still by sea,
and the shipping-companies are
catering for this by the provi-
sion of bigger and better ships.
These modern ships are fitted
with stabilising fins and other
devices designed for the preven-
tion of what used to be called
mat de mer, and numerous pills
and potions are marketed for the
same purpose.
Rather unfairly, the oceans of
the world have refused to co-
operate fully with these devices
and potions, and it is an unfor-
tunate fact that people still con-
tinue, and I fear will always con-
tinue, to get seasick when brav-
ing the perils of the ocean. The
only infallible remedy known to
science is to recline at ease under
a shady tree.
The sights the traveller sees
are wonderful: the Empire
State Building in New York, the
Eiffel Tower in Paris, the Statue
of Poseidon in Gothenburg
(leaving nothing to the imagina-
tion), the road leading through
the Isterdal Valley to Alnaesriset
in Norway, the American war-
cemetery at Margreton in
Holland, the Rhine in Germany,
the majesty of Jungfrau, the
Cathedral Square at Milan,
Dirty Dick’s in London.
It is on record that one out-
back Australian tourist had the
roof of his mouth sunburnt
while inspecting the Eiffel Tower
on a bright summer’s day.
When a traveller has been
travelling for a few months he
gets mental indigestion from the
sights he has seen and the things
he has heard. The trouble about
the whole thing is that, after his
return, he is inclined to get itchy
feet again. He forgets about his
seasickness, the monotony of a
long sea-voyage, the worries of
exchange, the annoyances of
Continental hotel form-filling,
passports, Customs, language
difficulties.
He is filled with an urge to
see more strange places and
faces; and, even before he can
really afford it, off he goes
again.
If the tendency continues,
most of the world’s population
will spend most of its time en
route to or from somewhere.
Such a floating-population would
be too busy travelling to worry
about hydrogen-bombs, wars,
diet - deficiencies and Parlia-
mentary elections, and the
world, permeated with peace and
well-being, would undoubtedly
be a much better place as a
result.


NOW OPEN !
The N.S.W. Government guarantees
£683/15/- for each £5OO
Invested for 7 Years in the
SYDNEY
WAYER
BOARD
£s's'-% LOAN
® OPTIONAL TERMS.
You can invest for 7, 10 or 20 years at this
attractive rate of £5/5/- per cent, per annum.
© YOUR INTEREST
is payable half-yearly and can be credited direct to
your bank account.
• FREE OF EXCHANGE.
Subscriptions, interest, and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange
in terms of the Prospectus.
m TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
Superannuation, Provident, Church, Club
——— and other Trust Funds can also earn 5
per cent. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queens-
land, Western Australia and Tasmania.
m INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED.
balance by
sth September, 1956.
If you wish, you need pay only a
10 per cent, deposit today and the
• INVESTMENT TAKES ONLY MINUTES
at any Commonwealth
Trading Bank. You can
also apply through a Stockbroker or at the Sydney Water Board Office.
INVEST NOVI
AND MAKE CERTAIN OF HIGHER INTEREST!
Issued at par, Loan No. 150 will close not later than 25th June, 1956.
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord and Minnett, Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DISARMAMENT
BRITISH and American press
comment on disarmament,
prompted by the breakdown of
discussions on the subject in
rj j ,
London, an y e 9
STie 1 “S S a
Soviet is demobilising over a
Uon7arme3 fores-
tional armed forces.
“New York Times”: “As in
the case of their previously
claimed reductions, the Soviets
not only refuse to disclose the
figures from which, and to
which, they promise to cut their
armed forces but also reject all
international verification and
control of their actions, except
for a ground-control on the
farcical Korean model. It is
their rejection of foolproof con-
trols and their insistence on
maintaining the Iron Curtain to
give them freedom to deceive
which deadlock all disarmament-
talks and make their good faith
suspect.
“Even if the Soviets do carry
out their promise they will
merely approach compliance
with the principle of armament-
parity first advanced by the West
and recently accepted by the
Soviets. According to the best
available estimates, the Soviets
still have more than 4,000,000
under arms. A cut of 1,200,000
would bring this figure down to
approximately 2,800,000. That
is the figure to which the United
States has already reduced its
own forces. And these forces
constitute the main deterrent not
only to Soviet aggression but
also to further aggression by
Communist China, which has at
the least 2,500,000 in its Regular
Army and many more millions
in other military formations.
“Even counting all the forces
of all our allies, from Britain to
New Zealand, the Communist
bloc, with its numerous satellite
armies, would still retain the
numerical balance in its favor.
“There is every indication,
confirmed by their own state-
ments, that the Soviets are veer-
ing away from the military
policy of the ‘human wave’ that
pits flesh and blood against
superior weapons, and that they
are now streaml.mng their forces
for the most modern arms,
including atomic weapons. This
would permit them to reduce
their armed manpower while
.„cre a s i n g their military
strength.”
* * *
~ „ ~
New York Herald i nbune
editorial comment : ‘lt is worth
noting that the Moscow state-
ment says nothing about any
reduction in nuclear weapons or
any fewer long-range bombers
being built. There is a good deal
about sending the demobilised
forces into industry and agricul-
ture. All this, so it is asserted,
is for the purposes of peace. But
here again how is it possible to
be sure of what happens in a
closed country where everybody
works for the Government?
“The truth, as Secretary Dulles
said, is that the demobilisation,
even if it occurs, will not
materially reduce the Soviet
military power. The explanation
is simply that the soldiers will be
put to work in areas of greater
immediate necessity. From all
accounts the Soviets need more
manpower to turn out the new
weapons of changed warfare, to
develop greater material strength
at home and to build up their
programme of economic and
political infiltration in the
uncommitted countries.
“This is the real nature of the
Soviet challenge, and it was no
jest when Mr. Dulles said he
would rather have the Russians
doing guard-duty than making
atomic bombs.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “The ques-
tion [in Western Europe] is
likely to be this: If the Soviet
Union can demobilise something
like a quarter of its men under
arms and still be just as powerful
as ever, how many men could
be demobilised —or, in the case
of the Germans, not conscripted
without making Western
Europe less secure?
“The more it is proved by Mr.
Dulles that the Soviets have lost
nothing by economising military
manpower the more impressive
will be the example they have
set. For Britain, France and
Germany are short of industrial
manpower. Military service is
regarded as a wasteful and tire-
some thing. The action of the
Soviets will be judged not so
much as a gesture for peace but
to see whether it is an example
of military realism.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “ ‘lf we
cannot agree on a disarmament
treaty, let us disarm without a
treaty,’ is the simple moral that
Moscow’s announcement [on
demobilisation] is meant to
point.
“To point out the limitations
of the Soviet announcement is
neither enough nor relevant to
the central issue of the whole
disarmament debate. It is much
more relevant —even though at
first sight it may look like a
mere debating-point—to recall
that the Russians’ last ‘official’
figure of their total armed man-
power was only 2\ million ; their
apologists in the West put it as
low as 2.3 million a year ago.
Yet the demobilisation now
promised and the one said to
have been carried out since
August nominally affect
1,840,000 men.
“Thus anyone who accepts all
the Russians’ figures as true
must believe that they plan to
garrison the whole area between
Vladivostok and the Elbe with
between 500,000 and 700,000
men —a force smaller than
Britain’s. This is cloud-cuckoo-
land.
“Sizeable demobilisation may
well be on Moscow’s agenda,
for farms and factories are
calling out for men; but the
fantastic discrepancy between
the various Soviet figures points
very clearly to the vital differ-
ence between what they are now
doing and what the West —and,
indeed, the world —wants all
nations to do under an enforce-
able disarmament treaty.”
* * *
London “Spectator”: “What is
now the real military situation
of the great Powers? The
dominating fact is that conven-
tional weapons and large con-
script armies have lost their
importance. It is understand-
able that in 1948 Western
leaders should have been pre-
occupied by the idea of Russian
hordes advancing to Madrid
from the Elbe in four days.
Now, with the development of
tactical atomic weapons and
inter-continental missiles, this
seems most unlikely.
“In 1956, when any partici-
pant in a war has the absolute
assurance that his territory will
be devastated by atomic
bombardment, the deterrent
against aggression is not the
small conventional forces that
Nato or any other military
alliance can muster, but war
itself. It is not a question of
having a military advantage,
since, at a certain point of
devastation, it no longer matters
whether the enemy is getting it
worse.
“ ‘Whatever happens we have
got the Maxim-gun and they
have not,’ was a good enough
motto for the days when a tech-
nical superiority meant not
merely the destruction of the
adversary but also escaping
comparatively unscathed one-
self, hut now all States are
equal before the hydrogen-
bomb.
“Any discussion of disarma-
ment should therefore concern
itself first and foremost with
nuclear weapons, tactical and
strategic. But how much hope
is there that in the present inter-
national situation any great
Power will be willing to agree
to genuine disarmament in this
field? Nuclear weapons can
easily be manufactured secretly;
all that is required is stocks of
fissionable material, which could
be concealed without much diffi-
culty.
“In these circumstances the
risk of agreements not being
carried out is far too great even
to be considered by the leaders
of either East or West. For the
very power of atomic weapons,
which tells against war when
both sides possess them, would
present an overwhelming tempta-
tion to aggression, were one bloc
to disarm in good faith and the
other not.
“The prerequisite to any such
arrangement must be the estab-
lishment of a deep mutual trust
between East and West, and this
is not something which can be
done either by statesmen’s
declarations alone or over a
period of fewer than 20 or 30
years. The plain fact is that dis-
armament can only be the result
and never the cause of a better
understanding between the West
and Russia.
“But, if mutual trust is not
yet possible, mutual fear is cer-
tainly the next-best thing. At
the moment the great Powers
are afraid to abolish their
nuclear weapons, but they are
also afraid to use them.
“Moreover, this situation
allows them to ease the strain on
their economies by getting rid
of their conventional weapons
and their large conscript armies.
The Soviet reductions must have
been in part dictated by
economic considerations and in
part by recognition of the
obsolescence of these forces, and
in this country [Britain] we seem
to be hesitantly moving towards
the same conclusion, although a
certain number of troops armed
with ordinary and tactical atomic
weapons will have to be retained
for localised wars and colonial
disturbances.”
* * *
President Eisenhower, as
quoted by British and U.S.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .., ... ..... 2/p
Yearly Subscription.. 22/6
• %
i
in
M/f
m
Wj
m
ill
n
v. - #
%
n
''
f
■
✓ V% 0P
c/
r
<•. . ~ .>
mmmm
■M
WM
*
5
-s'
P.S.
That’s pretty good advice, Mother.
Even youngsters know that Stamina clothes
are made stronger and better, look smarter
and last longer.
Bill knows that, when he gets his
Stamina slacks he will feel good in them ...
because they are made just as carefully as
Dad’s made to fit perfectly; made for
comfort from the finest pure-wool cloth in
Australia, and finely finished by Stamina’s
top-class craftsmen.
CLOTHES
ASK FOR | 9
Mamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
FOR MEN AND YOUTHS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 7.113
N. Y. “ Herald Tribune”
THREE BIRDS
papers: “If we don’t know any-
thing more about what’s inside
the Iron Curtain than we do
today, then we are not going to
reduce anything. That’s all there
is to it.”
The Imperial Way
Britain’s Empire Day holiday
drew the customary compliments
that are exchanged across the
Atlantic on such occasions,
“New York Times” commenting
that “this holiday used to be a
day to pay homage to what, in
the age of universally pursued
power-politics, was a most
amazing but also most
enlightened consummation of
valor and statesmanship—the
British Empire”:
“For almost a century it was
the guardian of world peace, if
not always of local peace. But
beginning with World War I
and at a vastly accelerated pace
since World War 11, the British
Empire has transformed itself in
the spirit of the new age into
what is now predominantly a
Commonwealth of free nations
over which the sun still never
sets and which forms an inspiring
contrast to the Communist slave-
empire in which, as has been
said, the sun never rises.
“The extent of this trans-
formation is evidenced by the
fact that since World War II
Britain has relinquished colonial
control over Asian and African
regions totalling 2,813,000 square
miles and possessing a combined
population of 472,000,000.”
In the same vein, London
“Daily Mail”: “Consider what
this country [Britain] has done
in the first few months of this
year:
“It has given its blessing to
Caribbean federation. It has
agreed to full self-government
and independence for Malaya. It
encouraged Malta to make its
own choice over Parliamentary
integration. It has offered
Cyprus and Singapore new Con-
stitutions which the wild men
of both islands have rejected.
“The policy which is emerg-
ing is one of boldness and
generosity where the risks are
not obviously too great, but of
firmness where there is danger
of turning over responsibility to
irresponsible hands.”
Commenting on this “accepted
theory that Britain is a trustee,
guiding immature people
towards self-government and
withdrawing when they are able
to look after themselves,” Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” goes on to
note that “in return for this
service the former governing
Power should earn the goodwill
and gratitude of the independent
countries”:
“In some cases things have
worked out more-or-less in this
way. Relations between India
and Britain, which [lndian]
Congress leaders used to de-
nounce as an oppressor, are
tolerably friendly.
“Unfortunately the theory of
leisurely preparation for self-
government does not work very
well nowadays. The tide of
nationalism is rising fast, and
even small nations ill-equipped
for conducting a modem Ad-
ministration are in a hurry to
escape from British tutelage.
“This desire for emancipation
is so widespread that it might be
imagined that British Govern-
ments would have a strategy for
dealing with it. When is a terri-
tory ripe for self-government?
“At present that depends on
the strength of the agitation
for independence. Undevelpped
colonies with largely illiterate
populations are gaining their
freedom, although their capacity
to run a system of Parliamentary
democracy is more than doubt-
ful.
“Ideally, self - government
should be held back until a
dependency had made some
advance in education, social
services, and industry, but the
Imperial Power is not allowed
to be the sole judge of the timing
of the grant of independence.
British Governments are not to
be blamed for giving way
eventually to the irresistible
force of nationalism, but they
might retreat in better order.
“Too often Britain seems to
outsiders to yield when the
alternative is large-scale sup-
pression such as the French
apply in Algeria. The British
shrink from ruthlessness, but
they hardly gain any credit for
their humanity, which is
ascribed to timidity.
“Instead of reluctantly sub-
mitting to the pressure, of
nationalism, British Govern-
ments should try to exercise
some initiative. They ought to
be able to foresee when a
dependency is firmly resolved to
achieve self-government and to
earn goodwill by making the
transfer of power as friendly
as possible, as has been done
to a large extent in West Africa.
“This does not mean a policy
of ‘scuttle,’ but of refraining
from fighting a losing battle, as,
it may be feared, Britain is
doing in Cyprus.”
How your nervous
system works
Day and night millions of mes-
sages pour through the nervous
system telling your heart when
to beat, your limbs when to
move, your lungs when to suck
in air—telling you if a steak
is tasty, a piece of music
pleasing.
June Reader’s Digest brings
you facts on the incredibly
complex system we daily take
for granted.
Then there’s famed author
Clarence Hall’s “The art of
understanding other people”,
“One year to live”, “They carry
top secrets”, “Wonderland of
ants”: a wealth of stimulating
articles in June Reader's Digest,
only two shillings at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Get
your copy today.
Various Voices
Sir Thomas White : “If all the
nations of the world played
cricket, it would be a happy
world. The close association that
has been fostered between
Britain and Australia because of
the mutual interest of each in
cricket is one of the most valu-
able that exists in the Common-
wealth.”
President Soekarno of Indo-
nesia : “We are called ‘neutralist.’
We are not neutral, and will
never be neutral, until man the
world over is free. We have
won our national independence
and we are trying to give that
independence a genuine and
worth-while content for every
hungry man in our vast archi-
pelago. A hungry man cannot
eat a voting-paper. We believe
in methods and ideals of demo-
cracy, but it must be an
economic and social democracy
as well as a political democracy.
In the midst of want, social in-
equality and poverty, democracy
cannot exist for long.” *
Prime Minister Eden : “In the
interests of peace I am prepared
to sit down at any time and in
any place and negotiate with
anybody, if I am convinced that
there is a chance to make pro-
gress. I am not, and never have
been, prepared to negotiate
when that word is a polite term
for surrender.”
Lord I s may (Secretary-
General of Nato): “What is to
prevent the Soviet leaders from
again changing their tactics in
whatever way and at whatever
time it suits them? There is no
Parliament or public opinion to
prevent them. There is no
guarantee that the frown will not
again take the place of the
smile, and bullying and threats
the place of fair words. While,
therefore, the Atlantic Powers
warmly welcome the recent
easing-up of tensions, and are
sincerely determined to do their
utmost to reach a lasting agree-
ment with the Soviets, they
cannot afford as yet to relax
their vigilance.”
Lenin (in 1923 ): “Stalin is too
rude, and this fault, entirely sup-
portable in relations among us
Communists, becomes insupport-
able in the office of General
Secretary. Therefore I propose
to the comrades to find a way
to remove Stalin from that posi-
tion and appoint to it another
man who in all regards differs
from Stalin in one superiority—
namely, more patient, more
loyal, more polite and more
attentive to comrades.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Kids and the Community
“Propalong’s” measures for decreasing
juvenile delinquency hardly accord with
his profound analysis of its causes (B.
23/5/’56). In particular, I doubt the
value of establishing community-centres
and fining the parents of convicted
children.
If parents are so little conscious of
their responsibilities, a fine is hardly likely
to teach them. With both parents working
—and this is so in the majority of
delinquency cases I have come across
the money paid in a fine will not be
missed.
A better practice is that of the S.A.
magistrate who ordered the parents of
convicted children to cane them. The
pain the parents must suffer, and the
shame that follows the resulting publicity,
must surely make them realise, tem-
porarily at least, that they and not their
children are guilty.
Yet even this measure doesn’t come to
grips with the real problem, which is the
decay of the fundamental social unit, the
family. In post-war years it has become
a commonplace to point to the housing
shortage and the increased costs of living
as the principal causes of its decay. But
there are far too many cases of
delinquents and unstable children coming
from families where neither housing nor
money is a problem for this explanation
to be plausible.
To my mind, the fault lies in parents
themselves, rather than in their material
circumstances.
I would nominate the mother’s refusal
to take her responsibilities seriously, and
the father’s too-easy acquiescence in his
and her self-indulgence, as the primary
causes of family decay and the resulting
juvenile delinquency. It is a moral
problem, rather than an economic or
social one, and, like all moral problems,
its solution depends mainly on the
willingness of those concerned to solve it.
I don’t know what can be done to
help them, other than a campaign by the
churches, Governments and social-welfare
groups to make them more morally
conscious. The establishment of
community-centres will do little to assist
them. For the parents of potential
delinquents, the community-centre, like
the school, is no more than another
institution on to Which they can pass
their responsibilities; for the potential
delinquent it is but a poor and inadequate
substitute for what is his natural right
as a human being—parental love and the
family-life that goes with it. — Peekay
(N.S.W.).
“Invisible Imports”
Let’s reduce this argument on “import-
ing insurance” (B. 23/5/ ’56) to its
simplest terms.
We have an exchange-pool in London,
its contents by no means inexhaustible,
and for that reason the Federal Govern-
ment has had to restrict imports to those
goods and services which are more-or-
less essential to the Australian economy.
Anything which can be produced within
Australia leaves just that much more in
the pool to finance the importation ol
things which must be obtained overseas.
Insurance definitely does not come into
that category.
As for reinsurance facilities, it tne
Australian market became saturated, the
Australian companies would be able to
place the surplus in any of the world-
markets for adequate reciprocity. They
have available to them fully reciprocal
reinsurance arrangements, sufficient to
guarantee the return to Australia of £1
for every £1 sent out as payment for the
importation of such reinsurance.
The assertion that the insurance-market
is competitive is interesting in view of
what are known as the tariff-offices and
their working arrangement. Admittedly
there are a huge number of companies
operating in Australia, but consider one
instance of home-insurance in a provincial
town. The annual premium charged by
the War Service Homes Division for
about £4OOO of cover is £1 6s. If the
policy were with one of the tariff com-
panies it would be £5 6s. Bd. Small
wonder that there are so many companies
chasing such business ; but I see no signs
of price-cutting.
I hope that “H.H.B.’s” overseas share-
holders, when spending their dividends
from Australia, prefer our beef to that
from the Argentine, and demand a loaf
made from Australian wheat. I can see
them opening a bottle of good Australian
wine to celebrate the arrival of an
unusually large dividend, paid from that
dwindling exchange-pool in London.
Ceg (Vic.).
Free Medicine
At least one practice under the Com-
monwealth’s free-medicine scheme should
be investigated. I’ve noticed that some
doctors now commonly give their patients
scripts for small quantities of medicine
such as a 3oz. bottle, which, at foui-
hourly doses, does not last more than
two days.
The patient may be given a repeat-
order, but rarely more than one, although
he may have a complaint that will drag
on several weeks. He has to go back
to the doctor and sign another voucher,
and also another for the chemist.
Before the free-medicine scheme, an
Boz. bottle was the usual thing—generally
enough for four or five days.
Someone must be doing nicely out of
the present practice, and it’s not the
patient or the Government.— Acne
(W.A.).
The White Man’s Burden
David Low lately had a cartoon in
“Manchester Guardian” depicting the
figure of Britannia wondering why her
children (Suez, Singapore, Ceylon, etc.)
were always so anxious to kick her out
by the back-stairs instead of showing her
politely out the front-door.
I’ve wondered about that, too, but
after spending some time in Fiji I believe
I have seen at least one contributing
cause.
You can’t take much notice of the
waving flags and tinsel of streamers at the
dock when the touristrships are in ; you
must spend a little time nosing around,
“Some of these people just stand in the middle of the
road askin' for trouble.”
talking to the merchants of Waimanu-
road and Marks-street, up in the Indian
quarter of Suva, You soon become
aware that here could be a nufsery of
Communism.
Autocratic rule has been overdone
in Fiji. The white man is king—he can
be the lowliest type of oaf back home,
but in Fiji, because he’s white, he’s the
boss. He drinks his beer or Scotch-and-
water in hotel bars where no Indian or
Fijian may enter, and he “pulls his color”
so hard he has pushed hatred into the
hearts of thousands.
Look at the colony through the eyes
of a 26-year-old Indian. He was born
in Suva, like his father before him. The
“Come to bed and stop sulking!”
father didn’t like being pushed around,
so he worked hard and long in his busi-
ness so that he could educate his son.
Eventually he was able to send the boy
to New Zealand to be educated. Seven
years later the son returned to Suva a
fully qualified lawyer. He now has a
nice practice with offices in one of Suva s
newest office-blocks.
But he is still Indian, and that means
he has to go along to the police-station
and sign the book every time he wants
to buy a bottle of beer, or have a few
beers with clients or friends —even white
friends —in a hotel bar.
Despite his qualifications, he has no
vote in the government of his native
country. There is no properly constituted
Government; no democratic rule. The
Governor is the supreme ruler, just as
all the previous Governors were before
him.
Take another case —a 22-year-old
newspaperman, half-Fijian and half-
English, with an Australian college edu-
cation. His mother is the paramount
chieftainess of one of the satellite islands ;
his elder brother is a famous Pacific
Islands shipbuilder. Yet he was ordered
out of the saloon-bar of a downtown pub
when he dared to offer to buy me a drink.
Fiji is paradise for the whites, however.
Fijian housegirls come as cheaply as
£4 a month. For that they start work
at 7 a.m., cook breakfast, wash-up,
clean house, wash daily whatever clothing
has to be done, iron everything and look
after the children. That s about the
brightest spot in their lives—they love
the kids.
After the evening meal a housegirl
can normally knock-off, unless guests
are coming. Then she stays to get
supper and clean-up.
Fijian laborers will do a full day in the
garden for 10s., and consider themselves
lucky to get that much.
Luckily, the Fijian generally is a
happy-going fellow. He accepts his lot
uncomplainingly and it isn’t from him
or his 160,000 fellows we need fear
trouble. In any case, the chiefly system
is still strong, and two or three chiefs
have been elevated to “white society ’ and
support the Governmental system.
With the 300,000 Indians it is different.
When Doctor Solomon Bandaranaike’s
People’s Union Party swept to power in
the recent Ceylon elections hundreds of
Suva Indians chanted joyously in
Waimanu-road. They openly expressed
the thought that “freedom” was a step
nearer to them.
A hotel-owner in Suva told me that
forcing educated Indians and Fijians to
go to the police for permits to buy a few
beers was repulsive to him personally.
“Others feel the same way about it, but
a few still want the system and will
fight any move to halt it. How can we
ever promise these people freedom to
govern themselves if we don t move with
the times? We are not in the nineteen-
twenties now. Then there wasn t any
education among these people ; now there
is.” . , . .
Autocracy m Fiji goes further than
the Indians and Fijians. It extends into
the whit e society, where the Government
controls the local news-stories to the
extent that Fiji news is often days d
and well vetted before it is handed oa
t° r u se - , , , .
Fijian servicemen were excluded from
the white Anzac Day reunion plarmeci
for the Sunday after Anzac Day. This
was typical of the color distinction in
and was seized on as propaganda y
those who hate the Bn^ s •
We need to do something about Fiji—
something a lot more constructive than
sipping Scotch-and-water and pushing
off the pavements everyone with a skin
darker than our own. —C. C. C. (N.Z.).
American Studies
Some useful information might
be gained on both sides of the
Pacific if an American Fulbright scholar
were to make an assessment of the
achievements in this country of the Ful-
bright and Smith-Mundt programmes.
Neither has been spectacular, and the
average Australian therefore is un-
conscious of the cumulative and generally
beneficial effects of them, both in practi-
cal matters and in the improvement of
international understanding and appreci-
ation. The interchange of Fulbright
scholars on the academic level and of
Smith-Mundt grantees, who are mostly
non-academic specialists in particular
fields, has achieved results which can t
be estimated in terms of dollars and
pounds, but which should have continu-
ing benefits to both countries.
This isn’t to say that every grantee
has carried out successfully the work
which he or she undertook, or that the
present arrangements aren’t susceptible of
improvement. More could be done.
Some changes will possibly come from
the visit to Europe and the U.S.A.
of the executive officer in Australia of
the U.S. Educational Foundation,
Geoffrey Rossiter, who studied the foun-
dation’s activities in Scandinavia, France
and Britain, and later saw the work of
the educational-exchange administration
in the United States.
He has made several recommendations
as a result, but perhaps the most import-
ant for Australia, in long-range, is for
an American Studies Conference, on the
lines of that conducted annually m
Britain at either Oxford or Cambridge.
These are intended primarily for mem-
bers of British universities engaged in
teaching or research in the field of
American studies, but they also include
persons who have a general knowledge
of and interest in American problems,
carefully-selected senior students and
teachers of senior classes in British
secondary schools.
The subjects at the conference in
Britain include American history, gov-
ernment, local-government, social institu-
tions, economics, education, foreign
policy and literature. Lecturers include
those who go specially from the U.S.A.,
and the broadening of knowledge which
results is of especial value at a time when
British-American relations must become
closer and more harmonious if both
nations are to exercise a united impact
on world affairs. The value of corres-
ponding activity to Australia would be
substantial. It will be good news if it is
announced that the foundation in Aus-
tralia is planning to set-up similar
machinery for a similar objective.—
Stromlo (A.C.T.).


$
r&r j;‘| 4
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
WELL
LININGS
□
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Qualify counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
Irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORt
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE TAMWORTH.
If you really care for
your car always use
Q
$
ENERGOL
Just like people, car engines respond to kind-
ness. Try it and see. Give your car the
blended, balanced, cushioning lubrication
of ENERGOL. Then sit back, relax and
wait for your reward —easy starting,
smooth running and a firm refusal
by your engine to cause you undue
expense or trouble. A planned
programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and
your car on the best
of terms—particularly
on resale value.
m
$
A complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oil*
and ENERGREASES and
Special ENERGOL Visco-
Static 4-grades-in-l Motor Oil,
specially recommended for
new or well-conditioned engines,
is available where you see these pumps.
UPER
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,
an associate of The British Petroleum Company Limited
C375P
Doctors
In the check made by the N.S.W.
Medical Board on the use of non-medical
titles and degrees by doctors, it is odd
that there has been no recommendation
that the title “Doctor” itself should be
used more strictly.
The average medico has graduated
M. 8., B.S.— Bachelor of Medicine and
Bachelor of Surgery. He is qualified,
academically, for no title but Mr., and
in an official publication such as a
“University Calendar,” “Mr.” he will be.
The title “Doctor” is restricted, academi-
cally, to those who have proceeded from
the Bachelor’s degree to the further
degree of M.D., and they are a minority
in the medical profession.
The holder of a Bachelor’s degree who
styles himself “Doctor” is guilty of an
academic impropriety. His only claim
to the title is that it describes the voca-
tion he follows —the word “doctor” here
has roughly the same force as “medico”
or “physician,” and we speak of “Dr.
Jones” as we might speak of “Lawyer
Robinson” or “Carpenter Smith.” If
the Medical Board is being punctilious,
this is an anomaly it might attend to.
The holders of doctorate degrees in
science, law, letters, philosophy and other
fields are entitled to the prefix “Dr.,”
though it has nothing to do with medicine.
One Ph.D., summoned in the middle of
the night to attend a confinement, had
some difficulty in explaining to the
anxious husband that, though he might
be described as “Dr.” in the telephone-
directory, his specialised knowledge of
Anglo-Saxon and Middle English were
of no avail in that particular emergency.
—Shindig (N.S.W.).
Retired Men
I agree with “Tock Emma” (B.
23/5/’56) that the Commonwealth
Employment Service should do something
about finding jobs for men who are fit
and willing to go on working beyond
the retiring-age.
Private enterprise has already shown
what can be done. One large industrial
concern in Victoria last year scrapped the
retiring-age for men who had been pro-
nounced fit to remain in their jobs.
Others, not so fit, are allowed to step
down into less-remunerative and less-
responsible posts where the pay, though
not so high, is still better than a pension
or superannuation.
A carpenter, for instance, who could
no longer work on scaffolding was given
work at ground-level and was quite happy
with his reduced status.
This industrial concern rates it as
unnecessary extravagance to dispense
with the experience of men who have
spent a lifetime in its service; it is quite
convinced that the new policy is paying
dividends. Government departments
might well profit from a study of the
results.
Since the average length of life is
increasing, wouldn’t it be more econo-
mical to raise the retiring-age than to
pay pensions or superannuation to an
annually increasing army of retired men
and women? —Pip Tok (W.A.).
Federation and Referenda
Few will disagree with the general line
of argument of “Do We Understand
Federation?” (B. 18/4/’56), but
referendum-results cannot validly be used
to bolster the case for Federalism.
Referendum-results depend largely on
party-allegiances, and few politicians have
been consistent in their support of par-
ticular Constitutional variations. Most
have shifted their position according to
changes in the official attitude of their
political party. All referendum
campaigns, therefore, with the exception
of three (1906, 1928 and 1937), have been
conducted on a party basis. Moreover,
even the campaigns of 1928 and 1937
developed into party conflicts in several
States.
Detailed analysis of referenda since
Federation shows that all three major
parties have at different times supported
and opposed the same proposals for
changes, the official party-attitude appar-
ently depending upon whether they were
in or out of office at the time. The
Labor party is the outstanding offender
in this regard, but the other parties cannot
be absolved from the charge of having
acted irresponsibly by regarding proposed
Constitutional amendments in terms of
political expediency.
A Queenslander, A. C. V. Melbourne,
summed-up the position before the
royal commission on the Constitution,
when he said:
As political affairs are ordered in the
Commonwealth at present, a proposal to
amend the Constitution must originate in
one or other of the political parties. The
natural assumption is that it will be opposed
by the other As political opinion is very
equally divided in Australia, a proposal to
amend the Constitution will, in the most
favorable of circumstances, attract only a
small majority... .The large majority of
the people will not take the trouble to
understand the issues placed before them.
Those who are active supporters of this or
that political party will vote as their party
wishes them to vote. The bulk of the rest
will vote “No” on the general principle
that it is better to resist a change.
While the attitude of the political
parties has done much to determine the
results of referenda, it also seems clear
from the number of informal votes and
the large proportion who failed to vote
before 1925, when voting was made com-
pulsory, that electors generally are not
greatly interested in referenda, and many
have only a very vague idea of the impli-
cations of the proposals submitted to
them.
All in all, one wonders whether the
referendum is a suitable device for decid-
ing Constitutional questions. Nor is it
certain that the contention that Aus-
tralians consciously desire Federalism can
be proved merely on the basis of
referenda results alone. Loki (N.S.W.).
Handling a Gun
Our countryside is overrun every week-
end with persons out shooting. Many of
them are teenagers from the cities or
nearest big town, who, on the pretext
that they’re hunting rabbits and there-
fore “doing the farmer a good turn,”
think they can wander at will over any-
body’s land. Actually, few of them ever
have any intention of restricting their
shooting to rabbits, and their idea of a
day’s sport is to let fly at any sort of
wild-life, be it fur, fowl or even fish.
Many of these “sportsmen,” apart
from wholesale trespassing, are far too
young even to be carrying firearms. True,
the law fixes an age-limit (16 in N.S.W.)
for persons possessing or handling fire-
arms. Equally true, it is probably the
most openly and widely flouted law in
the land. The human factor makes
proper policing of it quite impossible
firstly, because of the inherent and
increasing fascination of firearms for
young boys, and, secondly, because the
hunting instinct shows up early in Aus-
tralian boyhood. Parents, whose duty it
is to restrain a boy’s hankering for shoot-
ing until he reaches the legal age, are at
a disadvantage, since the under-age kid
often goes on his shooting exploits on
the sly, with a secretly-borrowed rifle, or
in a party of older boys. Police, unless
they come face-to-face with an offender,
have other things to do besides chase
around the countryside asking slippery-
tongued youngsters how old they are.
The fact is that nobody, except the
harassed farmer and others with country
properties, takes much notice of the
hordes of teenagers —mere kids, many of
them —who roam the country with guns
in their eager hands, but without one
practical clue to gun-safety. Nobody
takes much notice until it’s too late —until
tragedy strikes, as it so often does in a
juvenile shooting-party.
In N.S.W. alone, mishandling of fire-
arms kills between 35 and 40 persons
every year. Significantly, figures for the
past five years show that one-third of the
victims were under 20 years of age, and
one-quarter between 10 and 20. It’s a
big price to pay for a sport!
Shooting, either on the rifle-range or
in the hunting-field, has always been
regarded as a healthy, manly sport. Why
not, then, include it with the other sports
which are today recognised as an
essential part of young people’s educa-
tion? The majority of schoolchildren get
some kind of organised instruction,
curriculum-based, on how to play various
games and how to handle correctly a
tennis-racquet, a hockey-stick and, above
all, a cricket-bat. But nowhere, except
at those secondary-schools which sponsor
the cadet movement, can a schoolboy get
any guidance in the correct way of
handling a firearm. —Snow (N.S.W.).


The effectiveness of
rubber rings for mark-
ing and tailing lambs
and marking calves
may be judged by the
growing popularity of
this modem bloodless
method. Since “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
were first made avail-
able to Australian
graziers and pastoral-
ists nine years ago the
practice of marking
and tailing by rubber
rings has spread to
every sheep and
cattle raising country
in the world.
mi
MS.,--
t
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatical!}
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAIi IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
-DISTRIBUTORS
NSW.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane. „ ~ ~
Hvgeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne ; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N Z : Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Morespy.
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
THE New South Wales Sheep-
breeders’ Show in Syd-
ney came near to being
the national exhibition it
ought to be. Strong support
came from Merino, Australasian
and British breeders, with Tas-
mania, South Australia and Vic-
toria represented.
Record entries made the show
the biggest ever, and a more
liberal policy on the part of the
association added interest other
than the show and sale of sheep
to draw the largest crowds seen
at a sheep-show.
A continuous success through-
out the show was the shearing
demonstration arranged by
Grazcos. Average attendances
at these demonstrations were 400
to 500 each session.
The drawcard was the new
shearing - table designed by
Queenslander Borthwick, at
Quilpie. A single unit of the
table (which is now manufac-
tured by Sunbeam Corporation)
was on display each session.
Briefly, the sheep is held on
a table slightly less than waist-
high by three leg-clips, and the
task of holding the sheep is
eliminated. A surprise arrival
at the show was another shear-
ing-table, designed by New
South Welshman Frecklington,
and on display at the Lister
stand, where it, too, drew large
crowds for each demonstration,
Merinos
Quality was high. The only
general criticism one could make
was the small support given to
the fine- and superfine-wool
classes ; although one must take
into account, too, that one of
best su PI OTter S Starr
of Eshcol, Dalton (N.S.W.), was
judging, not showing.
The grand-championships and
the Stonehaven Cup groups
were particularly interesting this
year. For the first time in many
years some top awards went to
strong-woolled sheep, and novice
exhibitors and smallholders
shared in the major prizes.
Sir Walter Merriman had
another victory when he won
the ram grand-championship
with Hercules, the 1955 grand-
champion and the 1954 reserve
grand-champion.
Hercules had created interest
right from his first appearance
in his class. He had lost one
horn since his last Sydney win,
and there was much speculation
as to whether the judges would
take him through. However, the
judges (Stan Starr, Gordon
Kirkby, of Success, Moree, and
C. Cosgrove, of Braemar,
Warren) didn’t allow his other
outstanding medium - wool
characteristics to be over-
shadowed.
Added interest was given to
the medium-wool class in which
Hercules appeared, as Boonoke
North, Widgiewa (N.S.W.), the
F. S. Falkiner and Sons property,
had its first show-entry for many
years. This ram was reserve to
Hercules.
Merryville was the most suc-
cessful exhibitor for the second
year in succession and for the
third time in the last four years.
This famous stud also secured all
the fine and superfine ram and
ewe championships and reserve-
championships and showed the
reserve-champion medium-wool
ewe.
South Australian breeder
Murray Thomas, of Fairbanks,
Clare, one of the most consistent
supporters of Sydney Sheep
Show and the man who brings
his sheep the longest distance by
motor-lorry, had a very popular
win when he secured the reserve
grand-championship with the
open, strong-wool champion.
This well-built ram had a par-
ticularly good length of staple
and was remarkably even, no
matter where he was opened,
either on the shoulders, around
the tail, down the leg or on the
belly. He is being taken home
by Mr. Thomas for use in the
stud.
Mr. Thomas had a particu-
larly successful show. Apart
from the champion medium-
wool ram he won the reserve
strong-wool ewe, the extra-
strong and reserve extra-strong-
wool ram and the extra-strong-
wool ewe awards.
The grand - champion ewe
award was an outstanding vic-
tory and one well designed to
give heart to small graziers and
novice exhibitors who each year
are giving growing support to
the show. Mr. J. S. Williams, of
Thalaba Pastoral Co., Laggan,
via Crookwell (N.S.W.), with his
first entries at Sydney, won the
award with his champion
medium-wool and champion ewe
of the novice section. Thalaba,
with only three ewe entries, won
the foregoing awards and the
fine-wool novice-ewe champion-
ship and the reserve-novice ewe
championship. A really excel-
lent effort for a young stud. The
stud was founded on Murgha
(Merryville) rams and ewes.
Well-known show - supporter
and breeder, D. B. Milthorpe,
of Somerset stud, Jerilderie
(N.S.W.), won the reserve grand-
champion ewe award with the
champion strong-wool of the
open section. This small stud
also secured the champion and
reserve - champion strong-wool
ewe awards in the small-graziers’
section and the reserve-champion
extra-strong-wool ewe in the
open classes.
One of the strongest line-ups
ever seen for the Stonehaven
Cup paraded before the judges,
the winner being the Mungadal
stud of Anthony Hordern, Hay
(N.S.W.). Mr. Hordern is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association.
The Stonehaven Cup is for a
group of three rams and two
ewes, and is looked upon as the
hardest award of the show to
win. Mungadal’s victory stopped
Merryville’s winning sequence.
They had won the award for the
three prior successive years.
Mungadal has now won the
award four times since the war.
W. T. Pratley, of Oakbrook
stud, Bathurst (N.S.W.), won
the medium-wool ewe champion-
ship in the open section, while
the awarding of the reserve
strong-wool ram prize ushered
back to the show-ring the
Egelabra stud of Sir Norman
Kater, Warren (N.S.W.).
Egelabra stud also exhibited
the champion pen of five rams
against stiff competition. Merry-
ville Pty., Ltd., showed the
champion pen of five ewes.
Corriedales
Victorians and New South
Welshmen shared top honors in
the largest Corriedale section
shown in Sydney.
Redbank, one of the top
parent-studs in the State, secured
a well-earned double by exhibit-
ing the champion ram and
champion ewe. Redbank is
situated at Molong (N.S.W.) and
has been the foundation of
many prominent studs in the
eastern States.
Prominent Victorian breeder,
R. E. Wettenhall, of Stanbury
stud, Ceres, with a ram that was
only just shaded by the
champion, won the reserve-
champion award.
The reserve-ewe championship
went to another prominent
N.S.W. stud, the Gundowringa
stud of C. E. and H. F. Prell,
Crookwell. Other prominent
prizewinners in the section were
W. Chas. Carroll, of Beulah,
Trangie ; V. C. Goodacre and
Son, Rocky Ridge, Woodstock ;
F. A. Badgery, Burgoon, Cum-
nock ; and G. A. Smith, Nan-
dillyan Heights, Molong, all of
N.S.W.
D. C. Archer, of Quamby
Plains, Hagley (Tas.), judged the
rams and A. E. Mclntosh, of
Woodpark, Elam, via Dimboola
(Vic.), judged the ewes.
Polwarths
Soft-handling wool was a fea-
ture of the Polwarth section,
according to the judge, R.
Eastoe, of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Wagga.
This dual-purpose breed is more
popular in Victoria and
southern parts of N.S.W. than
it is in the north of the State.
Despite this a north-western
breeder secured two of the top
honors, He was A. E. Coote, of
Mianbetta, Manilla, who showed
the champion ewe and the
reserve-champion ewe. Poll and
horned sheep were judged to-
gether. The Glenwood stud of
H. J. McDonald, Dubbo,
showed the champion ram and
the reserve-champion ewe.
Romney Marsh
Quality was tops in the Rom-
ney Marsh section, as it was
throughout most of the British
breed classes. They were judged
by J. Fredericks, of Round Hill,
Culcairn (N.S.W.), who favored
the type bred by R. M. Mend-
ham, of Teasdale Park, Barry,
via Blayney (N.S.W.). Mr.
Mendham won the champion
ram, champion ewe and reserve-
champion ewe prizes.
To win with his ram Mr.
Mendham had to defeat the
“A deputation here to see the chairman
champion at Sydney in 1954 and
1955, exhibited again this year
by his breeders, F. C. Rowlands
and Sons Pty., Ltd., Werribee,
Waugoola, via Woodstock
(N.S.W.). Werribee secured the
reserve ram championship with
a beautifully-shaped youngster
which the judge con-
sidered will be very hard to
beat next year when he has
more age. This young ram
is a grandson of the 1954-55
champion. Strong support was
given in this section by A. W.
Alleyn, of Alleynside, Wagga;
W. L. Floughton, of Eagle View,
Cowra ; R. K. Gordon, of Rose-
dale, Orange, and Donelan Bros,
and Co., East Bullengong, The
Rock —all New South Wales.
Border Leicesters
Such was the support of the
Border Leicester section that
judging took one-and-a-half days
under the adjudication of R. R.
King, Warracknabeal (Vic.),
Veteran breeder G. Starritt
and his son Ray, of Mooroopna
(Vic.), won both major honors
in the ram and ewe classes. The
reserve-ram championship went
to another Victorian stud
(G. F. E. Hosking and Sons,
Kerang), while a third (W. G. J.
Beer and Sons, The Wattles,
Nanneella South, Rochester) won
the reserve-championship for
ewes.
Yet another Victorian, F. D.
Moresi, of Belle Vue, Terrappee,
Buckrabanyule, was a consistent
prizewinner. D. E. Brown and
Son, of Maitland (S.A.). gave
good support, but did not take
any ribbons. A minor prize-
winner was J. T. Foord, of Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), while novice
exhibitors, J. H. Papworth and
Sons, of Widgerie, Trangie
(N.S.W.), opened their Sydney
account.
Southdowns
This was one of the few sec-
tions in which competition was
smaller in numbers than in
recent years. Quality, neverthe-
less, pleased the judge, A. R
Enders, of Stanhope (Vic.), who
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/6/’56)
Sunspot outbreaks continue to be observed, and these
may intensify the rains indicated in the southern section
of the continent during June, with further gales and rough
weather.
In Queensland general rain may continue during July,
with heavy rains in the south-west and southern mid-interior;
on the coast rainfall should! be patchy and varying from
light to moderate.
N. S. Wales should also receive general rains during
July—heaviest in the central-west and n.-w. slopes and
plains, and possibly with renewed flooding.
General rains are likely in Victoria during July, but
rainfall should moderate in the agricultural areas of S.A.,
being mainly light in the interior.
Reasonably good general rains should continue in the
south-west of Western Australia, with patchy general rains
in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Both Plough, Scythe, Mow, Culti-
vate, Rotary Hoe, etc.
The attachment
shows the latterl
on the“BERIES\
II.”
The "MAJOR”'
has a 17 in.
Rotary Boe.
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co., Pty.
Ltd., 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
8W9647. Qrazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611.
VIC.: Qrazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8661.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’IiAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. ACS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2496.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., I,td.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
NEW INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS !
Hew Styling, Hew Power, Hew Comfort
AS-110, 12 cwt. Utility
&
II
m
AS-112, 15 cwt. Panel Van
FUNCTIONALLY STYLED FOR PRACTICAL GOOD LOOKS!
Here are the new International Trucks . . . great new models from
every point of view. Their clean-lined balanced styling is trim
and functional, smart and modem . . . built to take the rough
going of truck operation without excessive repair costs. These
new models are ‘all-truck’ from the ground up no compromise
with “beefed-up” motor car parts.
MORE USABLE HORSEPOWER FOR BIG-MONEY SAVINGS
The New Black Diamond Engines have been designed to provide
improved economy, increased power and torque with the higher
octane fuels available. Other improvements have been made to
pistons, valves, manifolds, camshaft, clutch, oil pump and electri-
cal system. All these features mean that you get there faster
with bigger loads and you save on operating and maintenance
expenses you save the big money.
DRIVER DESIGNED FOR REAL COMFORT
The new International trucks let the driver relax, work longer
without fatigue. Drive these newest additions to the most com-
plete truck Une ever offered in Australia today. Relax in roomy,
driver-designed comfo-vision cabs with natural angle steering
wheel and toe board to take the strain out of driving. More
features are dual windscreen wipers, sunvisors, dome cab light,
genuine hide upholstery. Low bonnet gives you safer close-up
view of the road ahead. Super-scoop ventilating cowl increases
the comfort of summer driving.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
District sales offices in Capital cities.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY
FMT/724-3$
said the tops were as good as
he had judged anywhere.
All championships and reserve-
championships were won by
famous Inglewood stud of T. V.
Brunskill and Sons, of Ingle-
wood, Forest Hill, via Wagga
(N.S.W.). It was a great victory
for the grand-champion ram, as
it is not often a show sheep
carrying six years can hold-off
the competition from younger
rams.
Dorset Horn
The Dorset Horn section
turned on the best display of
the breed seen in Sydney and
judging once again went into the
second day. Judge was South
Australian L. R. Hart, of Glen
Devon, Two Wells, and he was
most painstaking in his task,
which was certainly a difficult
one. Some tail existed in some
of the large classes, but to com-
pensate for this there were more
top sheep than in previous years.
Despite competition from the
parent-stud of Australia, W. J.
Dawkins (Newbold) Ltd., Gawler
River, South Australia, all major
awards went to New South
Wales exhibitors.
Exhibitor of the champion
ram and the most successful
exhibitor in the section was A.
(“Gus”) Taylor, of Lindsbury
stud, Cudal, one of the leading
breeders in New South Wales.
His next-door neighbor,
G. R. M. (“Bob”) Smith, of
Cudal, secured two of the major
honors. He exhibited the cham-
pion ewe and the reserve-
champion ram, the latter being a
shorn sheep. This ram won
the much-sought-after Dawkins
trophy for a shorn ram for the
second year in succession. The
reserve-champion ewe award
went to another N.S.W. ex-
hibitor, H. C. Yates and Sons,
of Yerong Creek.
Ryelauds
There was no tail in this sec-
tion, and to quote the judge,
R. Starritt, some “of the tail-
enders could have won prizes at
other shows.” Both the cham-
pion ram and ewe were shown
by well-known Victorian ex-
hibitors J. Mclntosh and Son
Pty. Ltd., of Burnwood, Merri-
gum. The ram is the sixteenth
champion sired by Burnwood
King George to win a champion-
ship at either Melbourne or
Sydney.
Lady enthusiast Mrs. Ken
Hicks, of Trelowarren, Orange
(N.S.W.), won both reserve-
championships. Mrs. Hicks in
recent years has built up a sub-
stantial prize-list with her Rye-
lands at Sydney and local shows.
Suffolks
The small Suffolk section
attracted a good deal of interest.
They are rare in New South
Wales but it was a pity that the
sheep were not shown with more
condition. They were good, but
they could have looked better.
Top honors were well divided
by judge E. A. Elliott, retired
chief of the Division of Animal
Industry of the Department of
Agriculture. Mrs. W. R. John-
stone, of Cronulla, a consistent
Sydney exhibitor, won the ram
championship while V. H.
Heffernan, of Minah, Bimbaya
(N.S.W.), whose stud is of very
old lineage, won the champion
and reserve-champion ewe
awards.
The reserve-champion ram
award went to new breeder J. W.
and N. R. Hedges, of Rock Flat
(N.S.W.).
E. E. and R. C. Cotton, of
Carrington stud, Obe r o n
(N.S.W.), were the only Hamp-
shire exhibitors. The ladies’
interest in fat-lamb breeds con-
tinued into the chunky, white-
faced, practically-B order-
Leicester-visaged Cheviots, also
judged by Mr- Elliott. R. M.
and Mrs. E. K. Metherall, of
Leighlands, Tooradin (Vic.),
exhibited the champion ram and
champion and reserve-champion
ewes. The champion ram was
reserve-champion to his sire in
Tasmania. This stud was
founded on Walson and Strath-
ranock (South Australian)
bloods.
THE RIMGER
ACHIEVEMENTS IN WOOL-RESEARCH (2)
(Continued from last week)
alone does not always
give a good estimate of fibre-
diameter. In a flock the rela-
tion between crimp and diameter
may be large or small, depend-
ing on the strain. Usually it is
only half as strong as the rela-
tion between wools from dif-
ferent flocks, strains or environ-
ments^ —“the diameter of wool
produced by any strain differs
markedly with the environment,
but the crimp is only slightly
affected.” It has been found that
the actual diameter of fine-
woolled strains in a good season
is the same as medium-woolled
strains in an average season or
strong-woolled strains in a poor
season.
The yield of greasy wool esti-
mated by laboratory-methods
and by visual appraisal has also
been studied, and it was found
that errors are largest for excep-
tionally high- and low-yielding
samples.
With the high-yielding wools
it would seem that appraisers
failed to realise the smallness of
the dirt-content and, possibly,
overestimated the wax-content
of the fine wools and the suint-
content in the coarse wools. The
covering-power of dirt increases
with decrease in particle-size,
yet even in wools with high dirt-
content the average particle-size
may be below the diameter of
64’s wool. This makes visual
estimation of the particle-size
—which would allow a correc-
tion —extremely difficult.
A laboratory-estimation gives
an absolute value, independent
of previous estimations, whereas
a human agency tends to yield
the sample from experience as
well as by reference to on-the-
spot estimations. If a buyer
knows .that a certain type of
wool has a certain average yield,
then he will use this to temper
his judgment, particularly in
extreme cases. The buyer’s
ability to guarantee that his pur-
chase \\ill not yield less than his
estimate by more than one per
cent, depends largely on the can-
celling-out of errors by the
various lots filling an order.
As the errors are cancelled-out
it might appear that the problem
is solved, but errors in yield-
estimation are still very real for
the individual farmer. It is the
pooling of errors between farms
that cancel-out, so a farmer pro-
ducing a high-yielding wool may
be consistently receiving lower
returns. It has been suggested
that the problem can be over-
come by taking a laboratory
yield-estimation every year on a
property in each district, to be
used as a guide to any seasonal
variation in yield.
It may seem that handle or
feel can only be estimated by
human agencies, but two
Americans have produced
details of their “rustleometer,” an
instrument they consider suitable
for measuring handle of most
textile-fibres. Their idea is not
new. In 1790 it was first revealed
that wool-fibres made noticeable
noises when rubbed together,
particularly when moving tip-
first.
These noises have been
recorded and analysed on the
“rustleometer” and the results
compared, with those obtained by
a panel of judges on wools of
varying diameter. The results
agreed, and in cases where the
judges could not detect any
difference in handle the “rustle-
ometer” recorded a small but
distinct difference. The machine
may thus be more accurate for
estimating handle-scores than are
the experts.
Interesting work is proceeding
in N.Z. on the best time of the
year to shear pregnant ewes. It
has been customary to shear in
the spring, about two months
after lambing. Pre-lambing
shearing, however, produces wool
of similar quality and is of con-
siderable advantage in sheep-
management.
Fewer lambs are lost when the
ewes have been shorn before
lambing, as they are more likely
to seek shelter in bad weather.
A ewe with a full fleece may stay
out in the rain and lose her*lamb,
and, of course, lambing and
suckling are facilitated when the
animals are free of their fleeces.
The actual shearing is more
difficult, as considerable care is
required, and a cold snap may
result in high mortality. Over the
years it has been found that the
risk is small if adequate care
is given at this time.
The most serious disadvantage
is that buyers claim that wool
taken before lambing is not suit-
able for worsted processing, and
they will not pay as high a price
for it.
It has now been confirmed
that there is no difference in the
manufacturing performance of
the two types.
K. J. WHITELEY.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered— in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and gpessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wo'ol Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to-—•
NAME ..,
ADDRESS
12 months £.l/16/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/XQ/m
r
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.) .
weather and opportunity,
whether to put to shore there
or here, to make themselves
known to the folk of this
country by tokens of friendship.
Towards which purpose have
been given by the Commandeur
some Nuremberg toys, as well as
knives, beads, bells and mirrors,
of which shall give only a few
to the blacks, until they have
grown familiar . . .
“Being thus known to them,
if they would then take you into
villages to their chief men, have
courage to go with them will-
ingly. Man’s luck is found in
strange places. - So God guards
you, you will not suffer any
damage from them, but on the
contrary, because they have
never seen any white men, they
will offer you all friendship
Meanwhile, you have to take
notice, with all diligence, what
material, be it gold or silver,
there happens to be found, and
what they esteem as valuable;
so that having come to perfect
friendship with them, you will
be able to ask by signs, or by
learning the language, that they
should keep a lookout for ships,
or for people coming from the
side of the sea ; in order to get
from such more goods, such as
iron, copper, or Nuremberg toys,
of which you have with you
several samples which without
doubt will please them
greatly . . .
“The time that the ships make
the Southland there, is in April,
May, June, July, reason why you
must look out very keenly at
that time, and seeing any, give
such signs as will appear to be
done with purpose, be it with
smoke or otherwise.
“Before all, keep God in
mind, never forget him; with-
out doubt He will keep you close
in His shadow and may yet
vouchsafe, in the end, a good
outcome.
“This done on the yacht
Sardam this 16th November,
1629.”
A BRUPTLY Pelsaert folded
the paper.
“That is all. It is signed by
the full Council. And may God
indeed have mercy on your
souls.”
He turned to Gerritsz and
held out the folded sheet. “Have
this copy handed to Loos,” he
said. “And so soon as they are
dispatched, get under way.
There’s no point in any longer
hugging the coast. Set course
for Java.”
Wouter Loos received the
document in silence, as in silence
he had suffered all else. He
thrust it into a pouch on his
belt. “Do we have muskets?”
he asked the boatswain, speaking
at last.
“Ho! That’s well from you,
who couldn’t get them to fire
when you thought to overrun
us, back at Abrolhos! Bells,
beads and mirrors—what more
do you want to look pretty?
Guns! Didn’t you hear? Your
office is to kiss the blacks, not
murder them. Come—heave a
leg. Over you go!”
With a dark glance, his lips
tight, Wouter Loos ran to the
side and swung over. But Pel-
grom they had to drag, and to
beat his clinging fingers from
the yacht’s side.
The voice of the Commandeur
rose sharp and clear: “Give them
powder and muskets.”
Now the cries of the company
grew unrestrained. Francisco
Pelsaert, sombre at the taffrail,
shut his ears to the hoots and
ribald jests. The uproar did not
last long, for Gerritsz thundered
to get under way.
The two in the sampan sat
making no effort, watching the
anchor rise, the sails flutter first
from one yard, then another.
The waves drove their frail craft
from the lee of the yacht. The
wind took it further. Only when
a gout of spray lashed the eyes
of Wouter Loos did he stir
swiftly, seizing a paddle to
steady the sampan.
As the sails of the yacht filled
and the red lion faced seawards,
Jan Pelgrom lifted his voice in
another scream.
Wouter Loos spoke again. “If
you do that once more in my
ears, Jan, I’ll kill you. I’d
sooner face it alone than with
that yammer. You heard what
he said—it’s a new land. He
was right though may God
damn him for ever! ‘Men find
luck in strange places.’ We are
the first to stay. We may yet
be kings or rich men . . . Pick
up that paddle and steady this
tub till I hoist the sail, or the
worse for you! We’ve no cause
to start off like galley-slaves.
We’re free men.”
Pelgrom’s shaking hands
clutched the paddle, his des-
perate eyes following the yacht,
already half-lost in the glow of
the westering sun. But Wouter
Loos, struggling with the un-
accustomed sail, fixed his gaze
ahead, ready to pick up a
steering-point on the scarce-seen
shore over which the next day’s
sun must rise.
Shortly after, he plucked the
paper from his pouch and, tear-
ing it to a dozen pieces, threw
them to the wind.
Note: The instruction to the
marooned men was translated for the
author by Mr. E. D. Drok, of Perth,
W.A., from photostats of the Journal
of Francisco Pelsaert, p. 304 of the
original held by the Algemeen
Rijksarchief, The Hague, Holland.
This story is copyright by the
author.
Ihe Boarding-house Bathroom
PROBABLY no institution in
our modern civilisation
offers, inside and outside,
such record crops of ripe
tempers, astronomical blood-
pressure figures and duodenal-
ulcers as the ablutionary depart-
ment of a boarding-house be-
tween 7 a.m. and 8 a.m.
This is particularly so when
the boarding-house is one to
which bachelors, fearful of the
perils attending establishments
thrown open to both sexes, have
gravitated for self-protection, on
the understanding that what O.
Henry referred to as the
“hydrogen - derivatives” were
banned.
Such havens are invariably
vintage-buildings, put up in the
days when taking a bath was
regarded as either an eccentricity
or a form of disease. The bath-
room appeared to have been
added as an architectural after-
thought, jammed into the
narrowest space available.
The boarding-house at which
I cast-up in my salad-days
catered for about 25 fleers from
the clutching claws of Hymen.
They were mostly pushers of
pens, about half" of them bank-
clerks.
Every such establishment is
cursed with the methodical bloke
who wakes early each morning
at exactly the same minute with-
out benefit of alarm-clock, and
is proud of being first into the
bathroom. Our specimen did
shave in comfort, the only one
among us who during that
operation wasn’t bustled, jostled
and muscled. Dead on the tick
of 6.45 he’d turn on the shower,
and within 20 seconds his rusty
baritone, stimulated by the water
cascading over his spinal-
column, would be bouncing off
the extreme edges of notes and
acting as a clarion-call to his
still - soporific fellow - boarders.
Soon the line -up would
commence.
As the number of inmates had
grown—inmates seems the only
possible word to fit the case —the
female basilisk who ran the
establishment had been forced to
cut the pre-breakfast bathing-
time by having a shower-recess
put in, so that two could bath
where only one could bath
before. This recess was squeezed
into the 3ft. - square space
between the end of the bath and
the wall. At the same time as
two were under the showers, two
would be shaving.
“Deliberate” George, a bank-
clerk in his mid-thirties, a
bachelor by birth and inclina-
tion, was the champion shaver.
He made a ritual of everything
he did. It took him at least five-
minutes to assemble his kit,
which included three-minutes for
sharpening hi s safety-razor-
blade by running it around the
inside of a tumbler with his
thumb. Old hands reckoned it
was the original blade he had
got with the razor.
George’s cognominal prefix
was really earned, however, by
his post - assembly technique.
First he would slowly and with
great thoroughness grind his
shaving-brush into the cake of
soap supplied by the establish-
ment until he had got the
required quantity of lather on to
it; then he would pause and
make an intensive study of his
features, like a general conning
the battleground-terrain before
making an assault. Satisfied at
last that no subcutaneous vol-
cano had erupted during the
night, around which he might
have had to manoeuvre, he would
put a tentative dab of soap near
his temple and stand* back to
view the effects. Then would
follow a trial with the blade,
which might call for a further
spell of thumbing in the tumbler.
At last he would commence
going over his dial on the
instalment-plan.
Fortunately George was a
sawn-off, which allowed two tall
blokes to stand at the back of
him and shave over his
shoulder. Nearly everyone else
would be soaking-up his burgoo
by the time George was care-
fully negotiating his starboard
jawbone.
The plumbing eccentricities of
that establishment made taking
a hot bath a spicy adventure,
fraught with risk.
An agonised bellow from
inside the bathroom would not
even raise an eyebrow among
the mob awaiting their turn out-
side the door. They knew that
it came from somebody under
the shower, and that the victim,
still half-asleep, had been lax in
his muscular reactions when a
tap or taps somewhere else in the
house had suddenly been turned
either on or off, resulting in a
cascade of either boiling or icy
water.
You developed a supersensi-
tive ear. You had to, or the
direst results would assuredly
follow. All the water-pipes were
ancient, and consequently
gooed-up, so that if several taps
were turned on simultaneously
the flow would cease, and if you
weren’t quick the resurgence
when they were turned on again
might be disastrous, especially if
a lot of hot ones were turned on
again at once, causing the
shower-temperature to leap from
about 14deg. Fahrenheit to past
the century without warning.
Conversation was frowned
upon, as this might prevent the
bather hearing the tug of the
cistern-chain a couple of doors
down the passage. That sound
meant that the cold-water supply
to the shower would be cut-off
pronto, resulting in a rush of
scalding water. The technique
on hearing the chain released
was to leap frenziedly either
along to the other end of the
bath or right out of the shower-
recess. In the latter case the
shaver or shavers had to watch-
out in case of a collision,
Nobody but a half-wit would
have used a cutthroat razor.
Sometimes the water-supply
would cease altogether. The
word would be passed out, and a
“Listen to the abuse—and we're the economic backbone of the country.”
stentorian roar down to the
building’s bowels to “have a
heart and turn ’em off!” would
allow the bath-taker to get the
by-then-dried-up soap off him-
self.
Nobody ever had a shave
while Bert was taking a shower.
Holding a mortal fear of crack-
ing his skull through slipping in
the soapy bath, Bert used the
recess. His method was to turn
the shower full on while he
that time you could have held
a atta on
Then, standing well out, as it
we re, in the fairway, with his
hack to the shower, he would
cautiously reverse, bent well
forward, until his protruding
posterior caught the first drops
from the perimeter of the cas-
cading t shower. Then he’d
gradually back further in until
the water was bouncing off the
middle of his back and shooting
everywhere. After which he
would turn it off, his front still
bone-dry.
The bath-takers averaged-up:
the quick ones like Tom, who
could shave in 50sec. dead, then
do a Nijinsky-leap under the
shower and be dragging on his
singlet again within another
90 sec.; and the dilatory type
hair might start dandru ff, which
he hated worse than the Devil
hates holy-water, and who con-
sequently used about 100 gallons
of water to make certain,
With a brace of shavers haul-
ing their singlets off preparatory
to diving under the shower at the
same time as the just-finished
bath-takers were struggling into
their pyjama-coats, there was
always a distinct possibility of
mayhem, with four flailing arms
shooting out at all angles in the
confined space. I found that
the one way of avoiding an un-
wittingly handed-out black-eye
was to squat on the floor and
pull my athletic on.
BO.


ENTERTAINING READING
NARROW PASS, BLACK
MOUNTAIN—
The Discovery of the Hittite Empire,
by C. W. Ceram. This new book by
the author of Gods, Graves and Scholars
tells one of the most exciting stories of
modern archaeology the rediscovery
of the supposedly legendary Hittite
Empire. Fully illustrated.
34/9 (Post 1/3)
BUGLES AND A TIGER
by John Masters. The author of
Bhowani Junction paints a fascinating
picture of British India as he records
his experiences in the 4th Prince of
Wales's Own Ghurka Rifles from 1934
to the outbreak of World War 11.
20/- (post 1/1)
You’ll find these and all the boohs you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castiereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
Available from all booksellers
THE SIXTH OF JUNE
by Lionel Shapiro .. / Bs. 9d.
A novel of love and war. To rival “H.M.S. Ulysses.” A first-rate
novel. Descriptions of fighting have never been bettered.
—Nancy Spain, London Daily Express.
*
Collins
Publishers
THE BATTLING PROPHET
ARTHUR UPFIELD
Detective Napoleon Bonaparte solves the mysterious
death of the famous long-range weather forecaster.
At all booksellers - - - 13/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
fought his way round.,the Cape of
Storms. The inner pages of the great
book have remained as white and their
print as brilliant as those of a Kelm-
scott Press fine-edition of only 60 years
ago.
From the brilliant inception of the
printer’s craft the exhibition traced the
history of typography up to the present,
with examples ranging through the
work of the great French printers of
the 16th century —giants like Gara-
monde, monotype versions of whose
types are in constant use today—and
Caslon and Baskerville in 18th-century
England, up to the beautiful produc-
tions of the English private-presses at
the end of the 19th century. There
were Kelmscott editions, exemplifying
William Morris’s failure as a maker of
books and his success as an artist and
as the champion of a languishing craft,
Ashendene and Vale Press works,
whose ornamental Subiaco and King’s
Fount types serve, by their very failure,
to underline our debt to the Venetian
printers who gave the Roman types to
the world, and the beauty of the Doves
Press books, whose type-design Cobden-
Sanderson took from the founts of
Nicolas Jenson, printer at Venice 500
years ago.
The private-press section was ex-
tremely full, thanks to the efforts of
Geoffrey Farmer, of the Public Library
staff, an authority in this field. Besides
the great English presses and some
European examples, the U.S. was repre-
sented notably by the fine productions
which resulted from the association of
Bruce Rogers with Houghton, Mifflin
at the Riverside Press and also, perhaps
a trifle unkindly, by a suede-bound
volume from the Roy crofters series:
“Little Journeys to the Homes of Great
Business Men.” Australian book-
production was typified by the work
of many little-known presses, by such
notables as the Beacon and Sunnybrook
Presses, and by recent fine publications
such as the Edwards and Shaw volume
of A. D. Hope’s “The Wandering
Islands.”
There were displays of book-illustra-
tion, beginning with medieval color-
work and block-printing and conclud-
ing with the art of modern illustrators
and examples of the technical processes
of 20th-century pictorial reproduction
and of book-binding. In the latter were
fine reproductions, pictorial and,actual,
of the classic styles, ranging from early
English through the 16th-century
Maioli and Canevari bindings to the
red-gold splendors of Le Gascon’s last
period and the masterpieces of the
Doves Bindery. Both sections were a
sufficient reminder that, even in these
days of mass-produced impermanence,
the high tradition of the craftsman still
lives on.
Most appropriately, the exhibition
ended with a section devoted to those
physical enemies of books which can
deprive the world of even the fruits of
its greatest craft, and with a display of
micro-film and micro-card recordings.
Second only to the dedicated work of
the libraries of which it is a tool, micro-
film is perhaps this century’s greatest
contribution to scholarship and to
human knowledge. Now the impecuni-
ous student, separated by miles and
money from a rare book which is, per-
haps, incarcerated in the British
Museum or shanghaied to Chicago by
a pork-baron, may, in the library of his
own town, read that which otherwise
would be denied to him.
South Australia has shown, by the
excellence of its metropolitan library
services, that it is fully aware of the
modern concept of the library as a
social necessity. But the State has
tended to neglect the country districts.
The country lending-service, admirable
so far as it goes, is merely an expensive
and not entirely satisfactory substitute
for a system of regional libraries
directly accessible to the man-on-the-
land.
Instead of encouraging such libraries,
S.A. has deliberately set out to preserve
and support an Institutes’ Association
—the anachronistic survival of the
Mechanics’ Institutes of the 19th cen-
tury. This means that although the
man outback has no access to a library,
he can obtain a supply of fiction from
the local institute. As this fiction is
popularly chosen it usually has about
as much cultural value as the bubbles
from a soap opera. By passing the
recent Libraries Subsidies Act the State
has made possible the allocation of
funds to regional libraries. But as yet
there is no provision for the active
promotion of local libraries, for staff to
select books or to give advice to such
libraries, or for critical inspection if
and when they should be founded.
Propalong.
THE CHURCH
N.S.W.
Shadows drip
from buildings.
Zebra dusk
prances the sky.
Angel bells
hover down
and call to prayer
the long men.
Strong the stone
the standing tower
the hands of blood
shall not pull down.
Roof of space
floor of earth
the church is built
—night.
ALAN RIDDELL.
Kathleen Raine
Among contemporary English poets
Kathleen Raine is particularly worth
knowing, for a tragic vitality and a
fidelity to Nature that remind one,
though her forms are more varied, her
rhythms looser, of the poems of Emily
Bronte. Like the Brontes, she writes
from the bleak northern moorlands,
and all is cold and stormy in her verse:
God in me is the fury on the bare
heath
God in me shakes the interior king-
dom of my heaven.
God in me is the fire wherein I burn.
God in me swirling cloud and driving
rain
God in me cries a lonely nameless
bird
God in me beats my head upon a
stone.
Practically all on this one theme of
the transience of life and love against
the darkness of winter and eternity —
And soul streams away out of the
top of the head
Like flame in a lamp-glass carried
in the draught
Of the celestial fire kindled in the
solar-plexus.
Oh man, oh Garden of Eden, there
is nothing
But the will of love to uphold your
seeming world,
To trace in chaos the contours of
your beloved form!
her Collected Poems (Hamish Hamil-
ton) are in a sense disappointing: as,
for that matter, are Emily Bronte’s.
Poetry should have more to say than
this: it can be gay, it can be various,
it can create objectively. But Miss
Raine’s single theme is still sounded
with rare force, with many unusual
devices of rhyme and rhythm—some
deriving from the Nordic sagas—and
with an earthy richness of language.
Reviewed Briefly
The Deceivers: John Masters
(Penguin Books). This exciting book
tells of the unearthing and tracking-
down of the Indian “Thugs” *—
“deceivers” in the native lingo. The
central character is an Indian civil-
servant who disguises himself as a
Thug in order to discover what they
do. He finds that the deceivers are a
group of people from all over India
who worship the goddess Kali, and part
of the religious ritual includes the
strangling of travellers, often in large
numbers at a time, and the burying of
the bodies in a ceremony dedicated to
the goddess. The story is founded on
fact —the writer is of the fifth-genera-
tion of his family to have served in
India —and he describes its vivid back-
ground, foreground and underground
with knowledge.
* * * *
From Cabbages to Kings: Lisa
Sheridan (Odhams). Autobiography,
with many illustrations, by a photo-
grapher celebrated for her studies of
the Royal Family. Among the cab-
bages, unexpectedly, is Leo Tolstoi:
meeting him as a child, Miss Sheridan
found him “cruel and obtuse” and
disliked his “great thumbs.”
* * * *
London for Everyman: revised by
John Freeman after William Kent
(Dent). As well as a well-written
historical commentary, this guidebook
has maps, lists of hotels, churches,
restaurants and travel-agencies, etc. A
list of art-galleries should surely have
been added —you learn about the
National Gallery here only when you
are reading about the Charing Cross
area, and about the superb Wallace
Collection only when you are reading
about Oxford-street and its neighbor-
hood. In general, however, the
traveller will find it extremely useful.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 386
Across
I—A girl and you and I and Skelton
got past the budding stage. (8)
4—Horse-feed on the council people
of Europe. (6)
9—A match against the Merchant
Navy takes no backing for
Clytemnestra’s victim. (9)
11— Drop a theatrical work. (5)
12— Plymouth cultivator. (3)
13 — Ten asses are worth this secretly
unraised money. (8)
15— Charles confused girls like
Laban’s daughter. (7)
16— Mount or mound in South
Dakota. (5)
17— Film producer’s rows, (5)
19—A marine dupe who looks down
on Sorrento? (7)
21— A good round circle kicks the
bucket skits on poetry. (8)
22 Councillor holding a vehicle. (3)
24 A course in which Keats is recon-
sidered. (5)
25 Keith Miller has this Queensland
town. (9)
27 Shingle or turn Botticelli. (6)
28— The deer-stalker’s rolls. (8)
Down
1 — An accomplishment by her
plume. (7)
2 Pearly duck with wan perfume.
(10)
3 This is the case when vowels
divorce Mrs. Adamson’s mother-
in-law. (3)
5 The inhabitants of White Russia
who support the present Russian
regime? (3, 8)
6 Grandfatherly volcanic material
turned up. (4)
7 Boxed supporter of a sail pro-
vocation to a bull. (7)
8— A structure who believes in a
society without government of
any kind? (6)
10—Nils Ides arriving nine days latex
than them. (5)
13— Stagger on top of Sherlock
Holmes with Buck’s chatterer.
(4-7)
14 — Again buy cloth with some
ancient capital before the pursuit.
(10)
17 — Serve is faulty, but that’s what
an editor does. (7)
18— The curse of Captain Corcoran
staggers the funny men. (6)
19 — Offspring is about 101 —yet is
still a child. (5)
20— Charles hiding in trees. (7)
23 —Coward upset the French cricket
position, according to this boy.
(4)
26—Fish up a students’ prank. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 385


«*
m
SO
»
n
«*AIM
i
m
-&?A
#»e*
tr
!f ;l
C'\
ss
fl*
tti
k^:
r*
m
v&
■v.
m
Y 5&
y*
m
y*
s/j
m
%
p
II
3»
sa
*2**
4®
Vjt
E
>1
5^
fcS
K*s?
WM
»
a;
-v
&
m
m
'.2:
ws.
<*
m
as
c?
V^-
2£2Z
«v-MRS«i'W
§5
«S
' V N \-vV^l
"s
Slfe
3S*2
s
r^zs?-.
rfTySyj
X
>=.
■ '"y.
OS
w \ . '> v>\ A
i
<y.
S
«^iE3
SLOW
15
Poor Polly ...
Funny how things stick in your mind. Little things. Like that day on the main street. It was the lazy
sort of day you get in late autumn when the sun is as warm as a smile. The kind of day it’s a pleasure to
walk down the street. Two things happened that day. Unexpected things. A car swung round the
bend into the main street. Its speed was a bit too fast for going
through a town. A four-year-old moppet ran out on the road, hugging
a rag doll, not looking. All she said was “Poor Polly” as they put
her in the ambulance. A little thing, but it sticks.
Same day the local people got together. That was a couple of
years back. Today they’re opening the new by-pass road for through
traffic. The kids’ll be safer in our main street now. And, as surveys
in America have proved, local trade will be better with through
traffic out of the way because it gives more parking space.
Roads are a national problem needing national attention. Our
Sister Dominion, New Zealand, for example, only began to grapple
successfully with its roads problem when a National
Roads Board armed with the necessary powers and
funds to tackle the job was established in 1953. Looks
like Australia could do with a National Roads Authority
too.
What do you think?
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS
EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
• • Slip. lON
but this!
CATERPILLAR
v\\>
o*
o°
\V4G
\^ G
o^ 5
AND CAT AR«
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS
OF CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO,, U.S.A.
QI4B
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
