

/
iMI
I
T
W
SOLERO
OR DRY
The Bulletin
“PUNCH, RON . . . ’’-PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3979
Wednesday, May 16, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 298: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
CHELTENHAM, ONE OF ENGLAND'S NOTED COLLEGES FOR BOYS.
THE beautiful Regency town of Cheltenham lies between the highest of the
Cotswold Hills and the Severn Vale in Gloucestershire, 95 miles from
London. It is a town where numerous gardens and parks give a spacious
dignified setting to the many gems of Regency architecture which are in
harmony with their surroundings. It is one of the leading spas and inland
holiday resorts in Britain and a renowned educational centre.
Cheltenham first became a fashionable health resort two hundred years
ago when the curative properties of its mineral springs were discovered and
became widely known. In 1738 a small pump room was built over the spring
and it was from this humble beginning that Cheltenham became a spa.
After the visit of George 111 and his Queen in 1788, the town became a
centre of the titled, the famous and the fashionable; by 180- the number of
visitors had increased to two thousand a year. One of these visitors was
Cobbett, author of “Rural Rides,” and it was he who described Cheltenham
as “a resort of the lame and the lazy, the gormandizing and the guzzling, the
bilious and' the venious.” When he re-visited the town a few years later the
inhabitants of Cheltenham showed their indignation in no uncertain terms
and Cobbett had to leave secretly and in haste. His burning effigy was carried
through the streets by the irate townsfolk. .
Cheltenham has become the social centre of the West of England, for
here each year are held such important events as the Festival of British Con-
temporary Music and the Festival of Contemporary Literature. Cheltenham .
is also the centre of the National Hunt Cup, one of the leading racing events
in the English sporting calendar. . .
The town is renowned as an educational centre, for it is the only town
in England, outside London, which has three public schools for boys and one
for girls Cheltenham College, founded in 1841, occupies a group of build-
ings in the Tudor style. In its handsome chapel is a memorial to the 675
Old Cheltonians who died in the first World War. The average number of
boy students at the College number 600, most of whom are boarders.
Cheltenham Ladies’ College is the largest in the Commonwealth for the
higher education of girls.


iiliiJ
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Itadio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Itead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters: —
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
„„ _ —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1056) AGE
BOOKHCNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service lor readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it lor you—fiction, text boos,
biography, history, etc. Moderate lee only “ SIW '
cesslul.
The Red Page
MILES FRANKLIN SPEAKS OUT
“He wrote with the grand wayward-
ness and originality without which the
arts atrophy,” says Miles Franklin of
Joseph Furphy somewhere in Laughter,
Not for a Cage (Angus and Robert-
son).
Writers, praising others, tend always
to praise the qualities which are also
perceptible in works of their own; and
certainly this posthumous book of
literary criticism is wayward, original
and—it is hardly too much to add-
grand. Impish and earnest, reticent
and outspoken, homely and lyrical,
shrewd and full of odd cranks and
quirks, vigorous, individual, democratic
in principle and aristocratic in impulse,
ardently Australian and alarmingly
feminine, Miles Franklin always was
more alive than nine-tenths of those
who talk and write literature; and here
she still is.
The book is wayward even in its
title —if Miles Franklin indeed chose it
herself. It is not until the last chapter,
when she makes an appeal for more
humor in Australian writing—“ Let
laughter return!... .The mocking
laughter of kookaburras is not for a
cage”—that it makes sense: for her
book is in no way a study of Australian
humor.
Other waywardnesses are obvious in
that final chapter. There is the open-
ing sentence, for example, when Miles
Franklin says “The Australian novel,
taking off from the ballad, has out-
stripped other forms of writing”: which
—if it means, as it must, that Eleanor
Dark, Ernestine Hill, Frank Hardy and
other novelists mentioned in the chapter
have done more in their milieu than
have Slessor, Fitz Gerald and Judith
Wright in poetry and M. H. Ellis in
biography—would not be easy to
establish.
There is the choice of quotations—
perhaps Miles Franklin really had little
response to poetry—restricted to minor
patriotic verses from the group of
Jindyworobaks in which she had a
special interest. And, however gladly
one may agree with Miles Franklin as
to the fundamental healthiness of
great art, and the importance of robust-
ness and humor, there is clearly more
bravura than exactitude in her picture
of the Australian social scene and its
potentialities for fiction: —
The struggle with the geographical
and physical situation has left the
Australian no time for the
European’s preoccupation with the
heightening of his sensitivity or the
harrying of his soul: he has had no
time or opportunity *to engender
abnormality and perversion. The
Australian has had to brew his litera-
ture sans equivalents of the complex
and ancient communities of the old
world to draw on: without finely-
spun portraiture or rumblings of
horrific pagan myth, without black
magic or repellent amorality....
As William Gosse Hay showed a
good many years ago, and dealing with
the remote times of the convicts, it is
quite as possible to write dark, per-
verse, harried or tortured books in
Australia as anywhere else: it depends
on the writer’s viewpoint.
And yet how admirably, setting down
his faults with relish but justly conced-
ing his virtues, Miles Franklin deals
with Hay when, in the course of the
book, he comes up for consideration;
even finding, as one should, merits
among the extravagances of his style:
Unflagging attention is needed to
be sure who is who, and to whom
the pronouns apply in scores of
passages. The pages are dotted with
“formers” and “latters” and obsolete
verb-forms. To balance this is a
Furphian intoxication with words,
but chosen for a different melodic
quality. We get “a wirrow of
clouds,” “a plunge of forests,” and
many refreshing innovations as, the
man “hoarsed,” the waves “harshed
hollowly”... .The overall effect of
the novel is saddening ; it aches with
undeclared but gentle melancholy,
akin to the lostness of the empty
continent with its dying aborigines
and its convict town, relieved only
by the author’s belief in human
Virtue and integrity.... It can con-
sort with the work of Henry James
or George Meredith—an unusual
achievement for an Australian.
But then again, surely it is a most
wicked comment on Hay to say that
“Sartorial details are described with
the intimacy of a tailor or valet”! Those
are the ignominious little jabs, just
true enough to hurt, just false enough
to be maddening (Heans, after all, had
to be described as a dandy) over which
authors and critics fight duels . . . But
one must leave it to the shade of Hay
to take umbrage. This reviewer is
content to watch, with infinite admira-
tion and pleasure, the unerring thrust
of the hatpin.
So, wherever you pause to take stock
of it, the book goes on: wayward,
original and—almost —grand. How
refreshing it is to see, for once, some
plain truths about that exceedingly
plain novelist Henry Handel Richard-
son:—
It [“The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony”] covered 30 years in time
without any deliberating gleam of
humor. It was badly written and
dull: the only other complaint
against it could have been weari-
ness, but many sound works are dull,
and dreariness was being cultivated.
To plough through the trilogy once
again is to wonder anew at the differ-
ence in the tastes of readers. It has
no charm, but neither has “Crime
and Punishment.”
But then again, how oddly puritanic
was Miles Franklin’s verdict that this
novel’s “inexplicable popularity” must
have been because it was “neutral, and
a bridge between the vanishing codes
of circumspection and the beginning
of today’s licence”; and how extremely
wayward was her omission anywhere
to give credit to Henry Handel Richard-
son. for the single stroke of genius
which redeems the vast, dull mass of
her novel—the portrait of Richard
Mahony.
Once more, how admirable is Miles
Franklin on Furphy, “Steele Rudd” and
(except that to limit appreciation to the
illustrations is merely to reveal a lack
of acquaintance with the etchings, the
watercolors and the best of the oils)
Norman Lindsay ... in whose case,
perhaps because of a sympathy of
period, perhaps because of a recogni-
tion of a fundamental healthiness, the
critic was for once completely free
from puritanism:—
In this era the young Norman
Lindsay, already famous as an
artist, also began work as a novelist.
Perhaps it is due to the limitations
of contemporaries, as well as of time
and energy, that one gift only will
be accepted from a genius as pre-
eminent. The second has to submit
to the rank of a younger son. Thus
with Mr. Lindsay, whose virtuosity
in the second field would have
entitled one less gifted to a different
kind of recognition.... .As a sideline
[he] produced “The Magic Pudding”
and illustrations, beloved of juveniles
and adults, and then went on to
ventilate life in a small town. First
there was “Redheap,” which censor-
ship forbade his countrymen to
read; then “Saturdee,” an un-
paralleled record of the leisure hours
of small boys.... This artist-author,
caricaturist-humorist, is as unclassi-
fiable as he is dazzling, as undeni-
ably Australian as Furphy or The
Bulletin. He stands alone in Aus-
tralia and rare in the world as a
novelist who is also a renowned
artist and illustrator of numerous
works ; and the quantity and bril-
liant quality of a lifetime of produc-
tion may be attributed to abstention
from any practice of the Bohemian-
ism he depicts so racily, a puritanical
devotion to his artistic gifts. His
worshipful disciples proclaim him to
be the greatest living illustrator. He
must be left to time and his equals
—-if any—for evaluation: the lesser
in attempting to assess the greater
can succeed only in displaying his
own insignificance. Mr. Lindsay is
unique in the Australian artistic and
literary scene.
But then again, what waywardness
—unless it was merely haste—there is
in the restriction of comment on “Ralph
Rashleigh” to the single curious state-
ment, partly in a footnote:—
Nevertheless, Clarke’s fire and
intensity produced a novel beside
which other Australian novels on the
same theme are pale and du11....
This remains true, though “Ralph
Rashleigh,” by James Tucker, pub-
lished in 1952, is surrounded by
certain circumstances to stir academic
interest and argument.
Expanded from lectures given for
the Commonwealth Fund, “Laughter,
Not for a Cage,” is a run-through of
Australian literary history, chiefly the
novel, from its beginnings nearly to the
present day, partly in search of endur-
ing values, primarily in search of that
Australianism of idiom and outlook
upon which Miles Franklin staunchly
and rightly believed that enduring Aus-
tralian literature would, in general, be
founded. She prefers Furphy. “a man
who wrote,” to Henry James, “a
writing-man”; and. forced to her last
line of defence, because of course
writers must deal with any subject they
please, she declares: —
Writers everywhere must be at
liberty to select their material and
to choose what backgrounds suit
them. An Australian man-of-letters,
as any other, must have the liberty
to become a full professor by study
in “Finnegans Wake” or a Doctor
of Literature by redollying the
literary dust of Donne or Clough
or Clare, or discovering some over-
looked significance in Leigh Hunt,
Felicia Hemans or even Eliza Cook ;
he must be free, likewise, to set a
novel in Iceland, Mars or the moon.
But he must also be free to attempt
to conquer the Australian scene,
thereby perhaps depositing tilth for
future annotators and scholiasts in
pursuit of academic diplomas.
One thing which an anthology or a
survey of this kind should always offer
the reader, so a learned colleague has
asserted, is a “discovery”: and, for this
reviewer. Miles Franklin does that in
her enthusiasm for “Clara Morrison,”
a goldfields romance out-of-print for
a century, by the South Australian
novelist Catherine Helen Spence. Since
we have had reprints of “Ralph Rash-
leigh,” “Settlers and Convicts,”
“Geoffry Hamlyn” and “For the Term
of His Natural Life” in recent years,
“Clara Morrison,” along with the short-
stories of Edward Dyson (which Miles
Franklin does not mention) and “My
Brilliant Career” (which she does: very
nicely), might well be kept in mind by
Australian publishers.
Enough has already been said to
indicate that one would not care to
endorse every critical verdict in
“Laughter, Not for a Cage.” There
is the waywardness; there are omis-
sions—“ The Pea Pickers,” for example;
there are moments of undue generosity
to contemporaries. There are also
patches of conscientious plodding;
an unduly long historical intro-
duction; tediously protracted accounts
of the plots of most of the novels —
the plot of any story (or film) should
always be summed-up in two words,
if it can’t be done in one. But on the
whole this is a book which rises trium-
phantly above its limitations: sound in
the main and exceptionally readable in
its field because of the vital personality
pervading it.
Poems by Herbert Read
In any book of short poems by
Herbert Read there is always at least
one lyric of quite startling beauty.
Once there was: —
Cecily come with your virginal
tremors,
Cecily still the bell;
your tresses are wet from the rushing
river
a green weed clings like a vein at
your breast . . .
and now in Moon’s Farm (Faber) is
“Death of a Greek Mercenary,” with
the whole sunny Mediterranean land-
scape in four lines.
There was a golden avalanche in the
air
of honeysuckle and crumbling stone
the lizards ran invisibly
over a wall that was gone.
But Sir Herbert achieves these small
miracles rarely; and for the rest is to
be taken quietly to discover the
cadences of Ezra Pound in
Several hundred people, simple
people
fur caps down to their ears
padded trousers criss-crossed with
string
standing there on the obliterated road
waiting for the cortege ;
the' style of Yeats in
In man imagination and mind
Blend to a unity: a woman may
Shift from mind to instinct, behave
like a blind worm ;
Chinese and Grecian influences; and,
through it all, in the quietness, the
fineness, the careful selection of words
and the sudden bursts of color, the
quality which is distinctively his own.
Read is chiefly concerned in this
volume to state his religious opinions,
an agnosticism to counter T. S. Eliot’s
Christianity. The long title-poem, a
dialogue for radio, is more interesting
as ideas than as poetry —Read has
hardly the ability of Yeats to put his
opinions into singing verse or that of
Eliot to make memorable incantations
—but, as a curious reward for his
unbelief, he has written a “Carol'’
which almost matches in its quiet
charm the old-English “He came all
so still. Where his mother was,” from
which, no doubt, its tone is derived:—
And such a radiance was round
On ass and munching cow
Some said because a child was born
And some because of snow.
Admiral on Horseback
Meeting Admiral Nicholas Horthy
in his Memoirs (Hutchinson) alive and
well at 88 in a sunny house on the
coast of Portugal is a little like meet-
ing a Siberian mammoth plodding along
a Cremorne road. Not a very big
mammoth, but a wise and experienced
one, wily in the ways of mastodonian
life, good-natured, courteous and bear-
ing no ill-will to his hunters whom he
has escaped, a little worn by a long
journey but still impressive, both as
a reminder of the historic past and a
symbol of the enduring courage and
ability to survive of the Magyar
people.
His literary tread is heavy, as one
would expect. His approach to his
subject is careful and dignified. There
is no exhibitionism nor any marked
emanation of natural excitement. He
is a man who has seen everything,
weathered everything and who is too
old to flinch from pain or to whinge
under disappointment.
Admiral Horthy began life—glitter-
ing life —in the Austrian Navy in a
time when to be a Magyar aristocrat
was to be a member of the world’s
privileged elite. The Austrian naval
staff were a gay and adventurous lot,
far-venturing and prone to riding
mettlesome horses ashore, travelled far
more than members of most other
navies except the Royal Navy. Horthy
(Continued on page 35)


Anthony Horderns’, Box 2712 G.P.0., Sydney. Typewriters Grnd. Fir. Pitt St.
Two Popular
portables
on easy terms
ms
nssp j
, 1
mumr
#& *B* *
#■
U 4
.
iggiMg
Now at Anthony Horderns’ we’ve ample
stocks of these two hard to get Remington
portables. No other portable typewriters
have so many “typist-saving” features . . .
features that give these Remingtons office
typewriter perfection in personal size. Ask
the people who use them most doctors,
students, journalists, salesmen they all
prefer Remington portables for their
smooth touch . . . lively performance . . .
rugged • construction. Buy on our easy
weekly terms. Left:' Remington’s Quiet-
riter with miracle tab that sets and
clears tab stops with a flick of the finger.
Priced at £55/10/-. £1 Deposit.
Free Puppet
Show
Bop meets
Davy Croehett
There’s thrills galore
when Bop meets Davy
Crockett and they go
on safari to deepest
Africa. Bring the kid-
dies in to enjoy the
fun as Bop and Davy
meet all the Jungle
characters. Fourth
Floor galleries, until
Saturday, 19th. Mon.
to Fri.: 10.15, 11,
11.45, 12.30, 1.15, 2,
3. Saturday: 10, 11.
Clothing
Hospital
Bring your old
clothes to our cloth-
ing hospital for a
new lease of life. We
invisible mend, re-
pair, replace pockets
and cuffs, alter, re-
place zippers, etc.
and charges are very
moderate. We’ll also
reproof your old
leather coat to look
like new. Clothing
Hospital on the
Ground Fir., George
Street, Sydney.
Economical
Performance
At home, travelling, or in the office, it’s
easy to turn out neatly typed letters and
reports with a Remington portable. Rem-
ington Letter-riter. £49/10/-. Dep.,£6/10.
as
mm
m
FSvTrt IN ADVtRTfSINC
:
Olivetti 22
Famous Olivetti Lettera 22, a
portable typewriter of modern
design and fine workmanship.
Priced at £4l/10/-, £6 Deposit.
Hermes “Baby"
The lightest portable typewriter,
the Hermes “Baby” is ideal for
beginners or professionals. Pica
or Elite type. £35/-/-. £5 Deposit.
IranpMP
l&W’v 'v, V
ai
«
a 000£&
m
m
B
n
Blue Bird
Blue Bird De-Luxe combines per-
fect construction with beauty of
carriage. Standard feature with
tabulator. £55/-/-, or £7 Deposit.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3979
Wednesday, May 16, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
PUBLIC-SERVICE COSTS
THE demand of the Federal Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion for the appointment of a committee on the
lines of the Hoover Commission, which in the
United States has unearthed a great deal of expen-
sive official extravagance, will find an echo in other
quarters.
The Prime Minister gives reasons against it.
He says that a “business wizard” brought in to
investigate would take a couple of years over the
job, which shows the complexity which the services
have achieved under the semi-socialisation that
has swamped Australian administrative policy.
He says that the Public Service Board has its
organisation-and-method service which has been
operating for the past eight years, and that various
departments have their own small groups working
on efficiency. He declares that the public service
of Australia has been operating for much longer as
a permanent organisation than that of the United
States, but he doesn’t add that its vast inflation has
been contemporaneous with the swelling of the
United States services, and that much of its
technique of expansion and the provision of soft
and unessential jobs has been copied from
Washington.
The art of making two men do efficiently in
various departments what one man did more
efficiently and with a tithe of the paper-work before
is essentially a post-World-War-II development, and
the delusions of grandeur which in defence depart-
ments have made it necessary for brigadiers to do
what formerly captains did very well and with less
assistance has been an accompaniment to the Great
Service Inflation.
It is true that the Government in Canberra, if
not some State Governments which have no
responsibility for finding the money, shows a
genuine anxiety to keep down the services and their
Expenditures in some branches at least, and that
there have, in fact, been reductions in the number
of personnel. But it does not seem able to control
the situation. There are still many departments
which, as anybody who has had a brief and startled
glance at their interior organisations knows, are
riddled with agitators and service “politicians” and
achieve little but paper-work.
The appointment of the Parliamentary Public
Accounts Committee under the chairmanship of
Professor Bland has achieved a little and has let
loose some curious financial secrets. But some-
thing larger and more comprehensive, and
starting from the point of review of the whole
landscape of Government, Federal and State, is
necessary. It is something which would go very well
with the promised Constitutional convention as a
prelude to overall governmental reform.
It should not be a service committee, nor a
Parliamentary organisation, since Parliamentary
bodies always feel the internal stresses of the party
viewpoint. Before it the services should certainly
be represented. But it should basically provide
machinery for a cold business analysis, anti it might
be better done in part by somebody from outside
the country altogether.
The fact that it might take even a wizard two
years to effect full inquiry is no argument against
it. It is rather an argument for it, since it proves
the extent of the need. Even if it took five years and
reduced the basic cost five per cent, it would more
than pay for itself. But the betting is that five per
cent, of the cost would be mere chickenfeed in
the ultimate if the Government could be persuaded
to carry out the recommendations of a proper
working-committee which knew its business. The
duplication of offices and efforts as between Federal
and State public services is nobody’s business, and
the waste and extravagance and inefficiency is being
contributed to by the* fact that the demand for civil
servants now exceeds the supply, and where special
qualifications and ability are called for the States
are taking the local leavings of the more lavishly-
paying Commonwealth, while wages in both types
of service are forced up by reason of the
competition for staff.
The investigators would find plenty of work
to occupy them a year in the mere task of deciding
whether some departments ought to exist at all,
and whether they would not be better relegated to
the hands of private enterprise, which would
certainly make a profit, or a more substantial profit,
and in addition pay taxation which the public
coffers do not at present collect.
In order to keep the utterly bankrupt and
inefficient transport-system of N. S. Wales going,
for instance, the N. S. Wales Government is draw-
ing on Consolidated Revenue for subsidies to
reduce the mounting annual deficits, and will shortly
be drawing on the public for higher fares.
Private haulage companies are proving that
they can carry heavy traffic by road in N.S.W. and
other States and make a profit. There are even cases
known in which the N. S. Wales Railway Depart-
ment (which pays no tax) has farmed-out carrying
contracts to private concerns (which are heavily
taxed) and accepts commission on the business;
and the private companies are paying both tax and
commission and giving their shareholders profits.
It is better to draw a veil over any attempt to
compare the cost and time-programmes of, say, the
work being done under the Snowy River scheme by
the American Kaiser organisation, the French and
the Norwegians, or by the Utah Construction
Company in Victoria and N.S.W., and the derelict
dam-projects of the N.S.W. Government, not to
mention the Quay Railway in Sydney, whose
“progress” is one of the grimmest jokes ever perpe-
trated on the taxpayers.
Investigations into the background of matters
of this sort would certainly pay dividends if they
were ruthless enough and the reports were candid
enough. And the ordinary civil service would
provide its parallels.
Salaries, too, in relation to function and work,
need thorough investigation. They are now often
related rather to the grandeur of the name of the
office than to its usefulness or the importance of
the work done. It would be easy to name some
fantastic examples—and not only on the side of
extravagance, but on the side of underpayment.
Professor Bland, who, as chairman of the
Public Accounts Committee, has done some useful
exploratory surgery on the departments, favors an
inquiry on Hoover lines. The civil service and
socialised enterprises naturally don’t. But the
financial state of some sections of the services and
the rising cost of government make it not only
imperative but inevitable before long, especially if
the rapacity of State Governments grows at the
present pace and taxation begins to rise again.
Gair on Trial
NEXT Saturday’s general election in Queensland
conforms to the general pattern of every election
held in the Sugar State since 1932; for the eighth
time in succession “Labor” goes to the people as
the party-in-possession, with the Liberal and
Country parties in their traditional role of
challengers. In the face of the squabble that is
rending apart the ranks of “Labor,” Premier Gair,
like Cahill in N. S. Wales, has managed to preserve
in his Parliamentary forces at least the outward
semblance of unity. What goes on behind the
scenes is a different matter —and will be a vital
factor determining the vote on May 19. The two
Opposition parties are more closely united than at
any previous election —so much so that veteran
Country-party man J. A. J. Hunter complained in
“The Bulletin” that the Country party was in
danger of being swallowed by the Liberals —but,
for all that, their task is still an uphill one.
There are 75 members in the Queensland
Assembly. “Labor” holds 49 seats and the Opposi-
tion only 23—Country party, 15; Liberals, eight.
There are also three Independents, two of them
former “Labor” men. To be able to form a Gov-
ernment without having to rely on the support of
Independents, the Opposition parties would have
to gain 16 seats on Saturday. At the election held
on March 7, 1953, “Labor” gained seven seats —
five from the Country party and two from the Libs.
That election was held at a time when there was a
swing to “Labor” all over Australia. For this
reason the Opposition parties in Queensland are
ignoring 1953 and taking the 1950 election as the
starting-point from which to estimate their chances
of unseating the Government.
At first sight this may seem unrealistic—after
all, it is the present “Labor” team that has to be
defeated, not the 1950 one—but the reasoning
behind it seems to be that “Labor’s” general
decline in popularity since 1953 will take care of
the seats lost by the Opposition last time, and that
the real fight will be in those electorates which
“Labor” won by small majorities in 1950. There
was a considerable number of these; in that year
the Opposition, as in N. S. Wales, came very close
to winning the election. In Nash the “Labor” man’s
majority was only 25; in Windsor 29 and in
Bulimba 42. There were slightly bigger margins
in seven other electorates—Mackenzie, 108;
Carnarvon, 146; Rockhampton, 245; Flinders, 297;
Balonne, 335; Mourilyan, 356; Nundah (won by
F. E. Roberts, who has since left the party and is
standing as an Independent against Gair in South
Brisbane), 502. On paper, then, the swing-back
from “Labor” would have to go only a short
distance beyond the 1950 mark to bring about a
change of Government. Mr. Nicklin and Mr.
Morris are pinning their hopes to the belief that it
will.
There is, of course, another side to the picture.
The figures quoted do not take into consideration
changes in the population in the last six years—
very considerable in the case of some city electorates
■—and they make no allowance for the varying
numbers of electors in the different zones. In seats
like Balonne, Flinders and Mackenzie the total
number of voters doesn’t exceed 5000, so that a
majority of a few hundred is not so small as it
would be in the city seats where the enrolments are
three to five times that number.
But the biggest single factor keeping “Labor”
in office election after election is the electoral
system. Alone among Australian States Queens-
land sticks to first-past-the-post voting and refuses
to adopt Federal rolls. And whether or not the
zoning system referred to earlier can be justified
by argument, it cannot be disputed that it works
out in “Labor’s” favor. At present “Labor” holds
nine out of the 13 seats in the northern zone and
all 10 seats in the western zone. In the latter area
1176 votes were sufficient to give Frank Forde a
comfortable majority in the Flinders by-election
last year, although his two opponents between them
polled 1383. “Labor’s” total vote at the 1950 elec-
tion was 295,138, against a combined Liberal and
Country-party total of 309,530. The Opposition
vote would have been even higher but for three of
its members being returned unopposed. Yet
“Labor” won 42 seats to the Opposition’s 28. Only
three months before that poll Queensland electors
had voted overwhelmingly in favor of Liberal-
Country-party candidates for the National Parlia-
ment (15-3 in the Reps and 4-3 in the Senate), and
they have continued to do so in Federal elections
ever since, so it is not surprising that the Opposition
parties in the Queensland Assembly regard the
State rolls and the State electoral boundaries with
the utmost suspicion.
Gair’s policy for this campaign is the old and
tried one that has stood the test of nearly a quarter
of a century. He’s going to push ahead with
developmental works;* build houses and schools;
“progressively improve conditions of the people,
consistent with the economic and financial position
of the State.” Additional assistance is to be given
to children seeking secondary education; roads,
railways and rolling-stock are to be improved.
Several other things are to be “considered,” such as
technical aid and finance to encourage private
storage of water for irrigation and stock.
There is nothing new in the list of promises;
apart from the promises to “consider,” “Labor” is
merely adopting the customary appeal of the party
in office to be judged on its record. Nicklin and
Morris are naturally attacking that record. Their
own policy contains similar pledges of development
and progress, but they are in a position to offer
changes which Gair, tied to the wheel of his party-
machine, can’t. They intend to review Government
administration; draw-up a priority list for public
works; reorganise the Lands Department; see that
all road-transport fees go into road-work; resume
soldier-settlement by joining the Commonwealth
scheme as an agent State; introduce a new approach
to Federal - State relationships, feeling that
co-operation will pay bigger dividends than abuse;
secure a fair and equitable redistribution of elec-
torates, clean-up the rolls and restore preferential
voting.
So much for professed policies! But the cam-
paign is not being fought so much on policies as
on prospects. The Opposition is endeavoring to
make the electors aware of the Government’s
involvement in the A.L.P. faction-fight and of its
inaction in the face of industrial troubles. A
Liberal-Country-party advertisement sums this up:
“The A.W.U. flouts arbitration. The Government
does nothing! The railways refuse to handle wool.
The Government does nothing! . . . Apparently this
Queensland Central-Executive-dominated Govern-
ment is not strong enough to handle or control the
situation. Let’s get back to democratic govern-
ment, law and order.”
“Labor,” taking a leaf out of the Hawke Gov-
ernment’s book, is trying to tie Nicklin and Morris
to the Federal Government’s economic measures.
It remains to be seen how effective this will be. It
seems to haye paid-off in Westralia, but although
“Labor” won the election and increased its
representation, the actual swingover in votes was
not great.
The tax-increases were “news” when the
Westralian poll was taken; Queenslanders have had
several more weeks in which to get accustomed to
paying more for beer, tobacco and petrol. Last
December they returned 13 Liberal and Country-
party members to the House of Representatives and
only five “Labor” members. They also gave the
Government team a Senate majority of close on
100,000. But that election, of course, was conducted
on Federal rolls!


THE NEW AUSTRALIAN


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Frogman and Soviet Spies
“Ek Dum” :' The isad affair of the frog-
man in Portsmouth Harbor is one ot
those things which explains why Com-
munism is winning the tactical war
against the Western world. The Com-
munists can always depend, in
propaganda, that their opponents will do
their work for them.
Khrushchev and Bulganin came to
England as guests —not invited by their
hosts but by themselves. They came, in
the light of their manceuvres, obviously to
divide the British people from their
Government and allies and to establish
an atmosphere which would enable them
to set up ambushes and booby-traps
inside the country. They intended origin-
ally to come in an aircraft, but at the
last moment decided to come in a large
modem cruiser with a destroyer escort.
Somebody in Naval Security appar-
ently decided that it was unsafe to allow
these ships to range a naval port without
a close inspection. Or, perhaps, that
there was something to be learnt about
them of interest to national safety. They
took steps to find out what they wanted
to find out. The frogman who investi-
gated was detected. He disappeared.
In Russia such an incident would have
been simple to handle. The tale would have
ended with the word “disappeared.” Any
person who knew of what had happened
and attempted to blurt it out would have
disappeared, too. So would any editor
who attempted to publish the facts or
to comment. Nobody would have been
told. The frogman’s Russian employers
would never have admitted anything.
In a democratic country whose press is
devoted to sex and sensation, as England’s
has become, conditions favor the enemy.
An informant was able to pass on his
story to an avid yellow-press. The press
immediately whooped the whole matter
up into a sensation. How dare anybody
display the bad manners of finding out
whether the cruiser (of a country which
recently had been accusing the British
Government of vilely launching Hitler’s
hordes against an innocent ally and which
had invented the germ-warfare propa-
ganda of Korea) was leaving an atom-
bomb in Portsmouth Harbor, to be
touched-off presently by remote control,
or some other' matter of interest to the
R.N.? How horrible that visitors whose
intentions towards us have everywhere
been shown to be venomous and malign
should be spied on!
And —this will give Moscow the
greatest laugh of all —the British Govern-
ment, sad and red-faced, admitted that
there was something in the frogman story
but that it knew nothing of what had
been going on.
All Moscow had to do was to share in
the indignation of the British Common-
wealth and American press and look out-
raged that anybody should so disregard
the laws of hospitality. The most the
Kremlin does is to use the hospitality of
the countries with which it has diplo-
matic lelations to turn every embassy into
a spy-centre and to make every social
occasion and contact a means of espion-
age.
Only recently it was spending money
and brandy trying to get employees of the
now-indignant Australian press “on the
little hook” for the purpose of espionage.
It was professing its desire for peaceful
relations with Australia while, in its
private correspondence, it referred to. this
country as “the enemy.”
No prike need be offered to decide the
issue: “Which is the worse crime: To
spy on a self-invited cruiser of a potential
enemy in a naval harbor? Or to com-
promise a helpful exhibitionist like
Dr. Evatt while he is External Affairs
Minister by putting a spy on to his
secretarial staff to steal the national
secrets under his charge?”
Most sections of the press had little
reprobation for the betrayers of Dr.
Evatt.
Kashmir and India
India having made it clear that it wants
neither a plebiscite nor independent
arbitration to decide whether Kashmir
should go to Pakistan or India, but has
suggested partition along the “cease-fire”
line, the Pakistan Prime Minister,
Mohamad Ali, has announced that the
dispute must now revert to the Security
Council of the United Nations.
Pakistan has been willing to accept
either arbitration or a free vote of the
Kashmiris themselves on the question ;
but India’s attitude has been one where
the only mode of settling the dispute that
will be acceptable to it is one that will
give Kashmir —or a large part of it—
to India. It has large military forces in
the Kashmir area, and Pakistan has had
to keep troops there, too, as a conse-
quence.
The referring of the matter to the
Security Council provokes an interest-
ing query: Will Russia veto the request,
in view of the attitude of Bulganin and
Khrushchev over Kashmir while visiting
India?
Kashmir has a population of four
million, of whom 77 p.c. are claimed to
be Moslems. There are also half a
million Kashmiri refugees in Pakistan
who would be entitled to vote in any
plebiscite. The longer the dispute con-
tinues, the more complex it becomes.
Outmoded Arbitration
The new Commonwealth Conciliation
and Arbitration Act seems to be mainly
intended to get over the weaknesses in
our curious Constitution rather than to
reform effectively the method of dealing
with wages, hours and disputes.
The High Court having decided that
the Arbitration Court (with its seven
judges) had no power to punish infrac-
tions of its findings and orders and
breaches of the arbitration law, Parlia-
ment is to provide a court of record con-
sisting of a chief judge and not more than
two other judges with punitive powers.
Conciliation and arbitration, pure and
simple, will be handed to an arbitration
commission, which seems to be neither
flesh nor fowl nor good red-herring. It
will have judges and commissioners, who
are to be non-legal conciliators. Accord-
ing to Mr. Holt, the system will thus be
“streamlined” and become more flexible,
besides speeding-up the processes of
reference and holding over the heads of
lawbreakers and breakers of awards the
penalties provided.
There will be a less legal atmosphere
about conciliation and arbitration; a
much more legal one about measures to
deal with the lawbreakers.
At the same time, the bill does not
get over the main weaknesses in the
national system of dealing with wages.
There is still a dual system of arbitration,
Federal and State, and a maze of over-
lappings. There is still an implied pre-
sumption that everybody in industry has
to be made to agree. There are still,
in fact, features which play into the
hands of the Communist leaders who set
out to control key unions and use that
control to sabotage defence and the
economy and produce the dissension
which they hope will in time lead to the
breakdown of the capitalist system and
give them their opportunity to “take
over.”
The less legalistic the system is and the
more settlements and arrangements can
be left to the parties the better.
The Canadian system, basically, is
about as good as can be managed.
Canadian Federal laws take care of
national industries such as navigation
and shipping, inter-provincial railways,
canals, telegraphs, air-transport, broad-
casting, and works declared to be under
Federal jurisdiction or to the general
advantage of Canada. Unions are certi-
fied as collective-bargaining agents for a
group of employees and for compulsory
collective bargaining.
Negotiation between the parties is the
basic procedure. If the parties fail they
may apply for the appointment of a
Government conciliation-officer.
If he fails to produce agreement, the
Minister for Labor may appoint a three-
man conciliation board. A strike or lock-
out may not legally take place until seven
days after this board has reported to the
Minister. When an agreement is made it
must contain provision for settlement,
without recourse to strikes, of disputes
arising out of its terms.
Provincial wage-fixing and employ-
ment-regulation is carried out on the
same principle.
A study of wage-conditions shows that,
generally speaking, Canadian workers
are far better off than Australian workers
in nearly every avenue of regulation.
Strikes about minor matters are rare,
and it is a principle that everybody tries
to keep the wheels turning. There is less
legalism, less obtrusion of the principle
of compulsion. In fact, the workers
have come to be treated as co-operatives
of businessmen who. bargain with other
businessmen in an ordinary commercial
way for the sale of their services.
It is towards this ideal, without the
hard-and-fast all-round limitation of
hours and pace of work and ceilings of
payment imposed by prohibitions of
bonuses and piecework, that Australian
conciliation systems should be working.
Territorial Waters
“In the ACT”: As prospecting for oil
continues off the Gippsland coast, and as
the Japs continue to carry on their Ara-
fura Sea pearling by Australia’s annual
permission, there is an increasing degree
of urgency about the problem of defining
for all nations the extent of the waters
under their control for fishing and for
mineral and other exploitation. The
International Court is not showing any
sign of an early hearing of Japan’s case
against Australia on the subject, and long
before it does so the U.N. General
Assembly is expected to receive a report
from its International Law Commission
making general recommendations.
The difference between the two bodies
is that the court’s judgment will be bind-
ing on Japan and Australia in the specific
case at issue, and will be used by other
nations as the basis of any claims they
may have concerning offshore areas,
whereas the commission can merely make
recommendations. Any nation can give
such recommendations the force of law
if it wishes to do so, and there is no
doubt that every maritime country will
examine the suggestions closely, as will
the court itself.
The commission has looked at the
problem for several years, and is now
working in Geneva on its final report,
which is due before the end of the year.
Pearlers and oil-prospectors will be the
Australians most immediately concerned,
but the proposed expansion of free fish-
ing may be affected, and some aspects of
defence may also come into the picture.
Australia now claims the whole of its
coastal shelf, but at some later stage
negotiations may be needed with the
Dutch and Indonesians concerning the
line of demarcation.
The commission is not specifically
representative of nationalities, but con-
sists of legal experts. Australia has no
member on it, but is kept informed of the
progress of its deliberations and of its
draft proposals. In the meantime the
Japanese are apparently doing well
enough off the pearling-beds to the north
while still proclaiming their desire to
visit the beds which Australia now
reserves for itself. They have kept their
agreements faithfully, and have been
subject to a vigilant patrol. It will be a
good thing when the whole issue is
resolved.
Tomfoolery with a Purpose
Sydney University’s annual Com-
memoration Day is traditionally a day of
tomfoolery, with flour-fights, inter-
faculty raggings, a procession through the
city, horseplay and other features
common to student celebrations through-
out the world. The city-at-large views
the occasion tolerantly, and is neither
vastly amused at the usual run of
“Commems,” nor excessively disgusted
when —as happened last year —the exuber-
ance of some of the participants leads
them to go beyond the bounds of good
taste.
There are at least two reasons for this.
One is that the students as such make
little impact on the life of the city.
Although the University is only a couple
of miles from Circular Quay it might
just as well be a hundred for all the
average city worker sees or hears of it.
The second, and probably more cogent,
reason is that the whole thing lacks direc-
tion. It is tomfoolery without a purpose,
and this is probably why the efforts of
groups of students to keep the fun going
after the procession is over seldom get
far. It also explains some of the
regrettable “incidents,” such as the dis-
figuring of monuments ; lacking a more
worthy objective, irresponsible spirits are
moved to go one better than their
colleagues of the previous year.
For that reason the students who con-
ceived the idea of giving this year’s
Commemoration Day direction and pur-
pose deserve the thanks of the University
and the city. For the day the students
adopted the Royal Flying Doctor Service,
and they set out to raise funds to buy it
a new plane. They went about the task
with a will. Even the earliest arrivals in
the city were waylaid by students in
pyjamas, cap-and-gown or fancy-dress
and invited to contribute to the cause.
The usual procession became a mobile
collection-train, and after it was over
hordes of students in various disguises
continued the good work throughout the
city. They were still at it when the city
began to empty at the end of the day.
What’s more, judging by the score or so
bucks and lubras (suspiciously light in
color) who were staging a corroboree at
the foot of Wynyard-ramp and extracting
tchilluns from the homeward-bound, they
were still enjoying themselves mightily.
Total collections for the day exceeded
£6ooo—a very good result for an appeal
which had received little advance-
publicity. Next year that figure will
probably be regarded by the students as
merely a point to start from —for it can-
not for a moment be thought that, once
having given their tomfoolery a purpose,
they will again allow it to become a
festival of rudderless unreason.
Taking Things Quietly
Early in April a counterfeit £5-note was
passed in a Camberwell (Melb.) butcher’s
shop and paid into the local branch of
the Commonwealth Bank a few days later,
where an alert teller noticed that it lacked
the liveliness of a genuine note. -
This was the first of something like
300 fakes since discovered, principally in
Melbourne, but they are turning-up in
other capitals.
The fakes’ chief faults are a white spot
showing on the lower wool of the ram’s
head ; the “Commonwealth of Australia”
distinctly white, instead of shaded ; more-
widely-spaced engraving; an indistinct
coat of arms ; a variation in size of up to
an eighth of an inch in width and depth,
and easily smudged inking on Sir John
Franklin’s portrait. For all that, they
are nearly perfect, and at the weekend
were said to be the production of an
Italian gang, which was alleged to be
marketing forged dollar-bills in Australia
also.
Rumors circulated that £500,000-
worth had been, or were about to be,
passed among the £ 12,000,000-worth of
genuine £5-notes in Melbourne; police-
headquarters were so alarmed that every
available detective had to be diverted to
the jobs ; experts are working overtime
studying not only fivers but other
currency ; trade and banking has been
slowed down, delaying all customers; the
Army’s tactics have been to have no
truck with fivers at all; and workers have
refused pay which contained them.
In response to the suggestion of a
noted Melbourne economist that a reward
of £lO,OOO should be offered for infor-
mation leading to a conviction, and
understandably angry remarks from
traders’ and retailers’ organisations,
Federal Treasurer Fadden, Common-
wealth Bank chairman Dr. Coombs and
Treasury-secretary Roland Wilson held
their peace and place above the mercenary
mix-up. No immediately threatening
political issue or departmental shake-up
was involved, so the activities of the
forger could be viewed with admirable
composure.
On May 1, more than three weeks after
the first forgery was discovered, Dr.
Coombs made a special trip to Melbourne
in an unspecified plane, while Fadden, in
the Reps, announced the bank was offer-
ing a £ 1000-reward for information lead-
ing to a conviction. The news was
greeted with unanimous derision by the
Melbourne dailies.
Dr. Coombs’s flight was to announce,
apparently, the news that the bank would
not pay on forged notes because this
would make the work of the forger
easier. But it would also make the task
of detection easier if a man who sus-
pected he held a fraudulent note could
take it to the bank immediately rather
than wait for a chance to pass it on to
someone else.
A few days later the Prime Minister
spoke in Brisbane about “the Australian
genius for taking things quietly.” This
calm approach to trouble is undoubtedly
shared by the Australians in Canberra.
Planning and the North
The resolution carried by the Associated
Chambers of Commerce conference
urging the Federal Government to plan
developmental projects in the Far North
in association with the Governments of
interested States was timely.
The North has made some progress in
the post-war years. But against its poten-
tialities it is only a drop in the bucket.
Growth of population—apart from the
civil service—has come almost entirely
from mining in two or three centres,
though there has been local improvement
in pastoral production through pro-
vision of water, fencing and other purely
local improvements.
The mineral wealth of the North has
scarcely been touched. Mt. Isa, though it
is a large enterprise, feeding considerable
revenue into Queensland, and the uranium
operations o£ several new companies,
are only in the beginning stages.
Like every other part of the country
which was due for a face-lift —and is
certainly getting it in some areas— those
parts of the North which are already
(<Continued on next page )


producing need the application of modern
methods and modern facilities. Water-
conservation and power are the mam
requirements, and though there are many
districts where their provision seems to
to present insuperable difficulties, theie
are others in which they would yield
dividends if the expenditure was well
planned and on a large scale.
The Barkly Tableland, for instance,
certainly could be revolutionised with
judicious treeplanting, gradual extension
of a fertilising and fodder plan which
would give the huge tract of good land
the herbage it hasn’t got to supplement
its abundant Mitchell-grass.
There are a dozen rivers in the North
which would repay investigation for the
purposes of hydroelectric-supply and
irrigation. There should be room for
large-scale dams along a dozen river-
systems, some of which run through
country with a good or reasonable agri-
cultural potential, some with a backing
of great mineral ranges and timber or
cattle-raising lands.
The Flinders, Nicholson, Gregory, Mc-
Arthur, Roper, Daly, Victoria, Ord,
Chamberlain-Durack, Drysdale and Fitz-
ray river-systems have all possibilities of
water-storage which have never been
effectively measured ; neither has poten-
tial water-usage in relation to soil and
situation ever been closely mapped.
The development of heavy agricultural,
clearing and excavating plant has out-
distanced investigation of the uses to
which it can be put. And there is a bottle-
neck in skill and enterprise in these
matters in Australia which is leading to
the introduction of overseas concerns
which possess them. It is only neces-
sary to contrast the progress made on the
dams which the N.S.W. Government is
building by day-labor with that on the
Snowy River projects, where the Nor-
wegians polished-off the Guthega supply-
project under conditions which would
have meant failure under Government-
stroke, and where most of the main
operations now in progress are in. the
hands of the French and Americans.
It might not be a bad idea if the Gov-
ernment were to ask some British or
American firm with suitable experience
to make a preliminary blueprint for the
future of the North out of experience
gained in countries which are further for-
ward in these matters. Even if it went no
further than to indicate points at
which more intensive investigation would
be worth while, it would be useful.
When the changes which have taken
place in the south during the past few
years are surveyed, even a pessimist would
agree that the word “impossible” is out of
the dictionary of Australian develop-
ment.
POLITICAL POINTS
From this week the Reps will sit on
Fridays, and may also sit late on three
nights a week-—a display of activity
necessitated by the slow progress of
legislation, the pending arrival of new
faces in the Senate, and a desire to
impress the populace with the vast
amount of work accomplished by
members for their pittance.
• ©
There’s a strong whisper among the
sugarcane that Gair will be appointed
chairman of the Sugar Board if “Labor”
wins in Queensland on Saturday. A
rival whisper says he’ll go to London as
Agent-General and the present A.-G. will
get the sugar job. Gair scoffs at both
stories and says his only ambition is to be
a successful Premier of Queensland.
• •
With a shriek of protest—which Eddie
Ward, M.P., and a few comrades loudly
deprecated—the N. S. Wales A.L.P.
Branch has agreed to obey the Federal
Executive and cancel the State Confer-
ence which was to open on June 2,
ostensibly placing its fate in the hands of
the special Federal Conference to be held
later in the month. Some teacup-readers
and astrologers interpret this as a sign
that there will be two N. S. Wales
“Labor” parties by July, one in United
Front with the Communists. But much
depends on Cahill and his cowering
caucus. They are not likely to sacrifice
unity for any mere principle.
“
• •
South Australia’s new Speaker is B. H.
Teusner, M.H.A. for Angas since 1944.
A solicitor from Tanunda, where he is
chairman of the district council, he was
Chairman of Committees in the last
Parliament, and, before that, Government
Whip.
• •
Early 'last week it was generally
accepted that complete separation of the
central bank from the Commonwealth
Trading Bank and savings-bank had
reached the stage where the necessary
legislation was being drafted. Then sud-
denly it was “off.” The change represents
one of the most remarkable twists in
Canberra’s history. Oddly, there was no
comment from the “private” banks.
If the Commonwealth Trading Bank is
ultimately separated from the central
bank, and takes the savings-bank with it
(as it would be entitled to do, in view
of the recent setting-up of savings-banks
by the trading-banks), it will indeed be a
mighty bank so far as funds are con-
cerned.
• •
A deficit of more than £3| million is
likely in Victoria, due chiefly to railway-
losses, unexpectedly higher expenditure
on education and agriculture, and salary-
increases awarded outside the Govern-
ment’s jurisdiction. An accurate estimate
cf the last item is not yet available, but it
will be substantial. The loadings will be
an even bigger headache to all State
Governments next year.
• •
Three or four weeks ago N.S.W. Rail-
ways Commissioner Winsor told his staff
through his weekly news-notice that
when trains were delayed passengers and
others likely to be affected were to be
told as soonlks possible “the cause of the
trouble, what is being done about, and
how long it will take to overcome it.”
Last week two men from the traffic-
control office were summarily dismissed
for having discussed breakdowns with
the press. Transport Minister Enticknap,
accepting responsibility for an order that
information on train hold-ups should be
given to the press only by officers
specially authorised to do so, says that
the two men weren’t sacked for giving
the information but for disobeying the
order that they weren’t to. A railway-
man sacked for disobeying orders!
That'll give the A.R.U. a laugh.
• •
Chief of a London wine firm suggested
in Adelaide that Australian vignerons
should consider an annual scholarship to
bring young men from the English wine
trade out to Australia to familiarise
themselves with this end of the industry.
On the same day that he made the sugges-
tion Quirke, Independent member for
Burra, told the S.A. Assembly that the
Education Department had refused a
teacher in the Clare district permission
to take a party of pupils through a local
winery. The Minister for Education
promised to check-up.
• •
If the Adelaide River rice-growing gets
under way the Northern Territory may
have a new port near the mouth of the
river. Utah Construction Co. has been
having a look at the area on behalf of
Territory Rice, Ltd., and may recommend
this.
• •
Atomic scientist Professor Titterton
considers South Australia a natural for
the first atomic-power station in Aus-
tralia, owing to its lack of large coal-
deposits. He expects developments there
within the next five or 10 years, but thinks
it would be foolish for Australia to
plunge into a commercial atomic-energy
project at present; much wiser, he says,
to await developments overseas.
NEIGHBORLY INTEREST
From July 1 persons with a net income
exceeding the basic wage won’t be
admitted to public wards of Victorian
hospitals. “Net income” will be deter-
mined by deducting from net earnings £1
a week for a wife or husband and each of
the first two children, £1 10s. for the third
child, £2 each for any others, plus rent
or home-purchase payments. This last is
a worth-while deduction; most small
houses sold on terms in Melbourne how
provide for repayments of at least £5
a week.
Following on the Bolte Government’s
upward revision of Housing Commis-
sion rents, this announcement has caused
some whingeing, but in both cases full
consideration has beeh given to the
family-man, the triers and the aged poor.
In no circumstances* is * a family-man
called on to pay more than 20 per cent,
of his earnings for a Housing Commis-
sion home, and in the hospital shake-up
patients may own a house up to £2OOO in
value without losing eligibility. Tenants
of some commission-homes had been
enjoying very reasonable accommodation
for 15s. a week —less than the cost of
maintenance.
• •
There seems to be rather a lot of craw-
fishing over the Crabb incident.
• •
“Zorok”: A car out of control rolled
down an embankment on to the railway-
line near Eastwood (Sydney) and held-up
traffic for a couple of hours—about the
first of several score delays on Sydney s
railway-system in the last few months not
due to faults and failings in the system
itself.
• •
“Kandy”: Not content-with threaten-
ing to throw the British out of military
bases and tea-plantations, the new
Ceylonese Government has postponed
indefinitely the proposed Colombo Plan
exhibition, and is talking about banning
liquor and racing on the island (with a
proviso that tourists, if any, will be able
to get drinks under permit). These two
prohibitions have been recommended by
the Buddhist Commission, and the first
sufferers from the new policy were the
guests at a Prime Minister s party m
honor of the Mountbattens. Fruit-drinks
and iced coffee were served.
• •
Before the Prime Minister leaves for
London he will give the House the review
of the economic state of the nation which
he promised for “after Easter.” He did
some work on this last week, and is
known to have said it will be an easier
task than the one he delivered in March.
There are hints that it may be in hopeful
vein—which should cheer the 180-odd
members reported to be expecting a
salary-rise. Menzies refused to disclose
last week if he would introduce the
salaries measure before he left. Someone
suggested he might be leaving it for the
Treasurer, prompting him to reply, “I
didn’t think you thought as badly of me
as that.”
• •
Lowest trick reported in the Queens-
land election-campaign was the throw-
ing on to the platform of Dave Treacy,
Liberal candidate for Mackay, of a dead
rat with a string of rosary-beads tied
round it. Treacy is a former member of
the “Labor” party.
• •
In the course of an election-speech
Gair told his audience that his Govern-
ment “made sure that the factory-worker
had the purchasing-power to buy what
the man on the land produced.” That
sounds very fair and benevolent, but it
doesn’t stand analysis. To begin with,
the Gair Government doesn’t fix wages ;
that is done by the Federal and State
arbitration courts. And even if their
wages were 10 times the present level
the factory-workers of Queensland, eat-
ing steadily for 24 hours a day, couldn’t
consume all the meat, grain, fruit, butter,
sugar, peanuts and other edibles produced
by Queensland’s men on the land. And
if they tried to wear all the wool they’d
be suffocated or die of heat-prostration.
Primary-producers of Queensland (and
of Australia) depend on export markets
—and the living-standards of factory-
workers depend on exports, too.
• •
An American Congressman, Thomas
Lane, has gone to jail for four months
for income-tax evasion. Apparently the
conviction doesn’t affect his position as
a legislator; he retains his seat and is
expected to be a candidate for re-election
later this year.
• •
“Stromlo”: Tempers in the Reps are
becoming a little frayed. The TV bill
produced some plain speaking, and
Defence Production Minister Harrison,
after reminding the House of the conflict
between the “Doc.” and Calwell some
time ago on TV control, went on to
recall that Calwell had been photographed
with Mr. Spyros Skouros, “the multi-
millionaire president of x 20th-Century-
Fox,” with his arm round that gentle-
man’s shoulder. Harrison suggested that
for those good offices to the film-industry
“this Schnozzle Durante of politics was
to become the Clark Gable of the TV-
industry.” Later, outside the House,
Calwell told Harrison that he hadn’t
thought his appearance was as bad as all
that.
• •
Menzies admits having toyed with the
idea of a “wizard” going through the
whole public-service set-up, presumably
with a borrowed broom. He says he
hasn’t discarded the idea entirely,
although he’s met a few wizards in his
day, “and sometimes been glad to see the
last of them.” But the P.M.’s familiar
and rather threadbare arguments about
irreducible expenditure and the com-
plexity of the public-service structure
and organisation don’t sound very con-
vincing, and departmental officials don’t
seem the slightest bit worried about the
situation,
• •
Four Senators and eight Reps, an equal
number from each side, but with a Gov-
ernment man in the chair, will comprise
the committee to consider the general
working of the Constitution and the
possibility of amendments —which will
almost certainly be submitted at a referen-
dum if the parties agree on them. The
States will have a chance of discussing
the suggestions, but no say at the commit-
tee-meetings.
• •
Deposits in the two new private savings-
banks totalled £3l million at the end of
April, an increase pf £7 million for the
month. Under their charters the banks
may invest depositors’ funds only in
Government or semi-Government securi-
ties, loans to guaranteed building-
societies or housing-loans on the security
of land.
• •
Nauru shipped 1,237,236 tons of
phosphate-rock in the year ended June 30,
1955—the highest total ever. Ocean
Island also achieved record figures,
312,634 tons. Australia, with 847,000
tons, took the lion’s share of the output
of the two islands; New Zealand,
543,000 tons; Britain, 160,000 tons.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TYESPITE the awful overhead-railway,
Circular Quay is still the pleasantest
place in Sydney to idle away the lunch-
hour ; and there, placidly ingurgitating
a banana over a railing, I watched a stal-
wart, grey-haired gentleman who really
knew how to enjoy it. On the lowest
step where the launch-stairs run down
near thfc wharves on the left he sat
prudently on a sheet of the “S. M.
Herald,” reading the rest of the news-
paper, and, with his .shoes and socks
beside him, gently dabbled his poor, tired
feet in the refreshing ripples—very
refreshing indeed, I should say, in this
cold May weather. Alas, a Harbor Trust
launch swept past and sent a wave upon
him, curling over the step and drenching
the seat of his pants. Still placidly, but
with the air of one who had perhaps
better be getting back to work, he dried
his feet on the sheet of the “Herald” he
had been reading, tucked his socks into
his long woollen underpants and, before
he departed—the touch I liked best of
all—carefully scraped-up the sodden sheet
of paper on which he had been sitting
and, not to leave litter behind him,
screwed it up and tossed it into the
Harbor. —“Mac Hoots.”
♦+< ❖ ❖
“Mirrer”: Banned in Queensland —is it
a case of a lost “Week-End”?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tock Emma”: In the “Hatches,
Matches and Dispatches” column of an
issue of a Hobart newspaper it was
noted that one deceased mother, aged
only 48, had left behind her 12 daughters
and one son. In the following announce-
ment, as if to go one better, a departed
mother had 14 offspring, nine girls and
five boys. Twenty-seven in two families
—2l girls and nine boys. There must
be something feminine in the Tasmanian
air.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Willpar”: Conversations resulting
from wrong phone-numbers always seem
to run to a pattern. “Hello?” you hear.
“Er you say, “is that you, Harry?” You
( feel a fool because the “Hello” is obvi-
' ously feminine, but, expecting Harry,
you’re caught on the wrong foot. “No,”
she says. “What number did you want?”
You tell her. She tells you her number.
As the numbers don’t agree, you say,
“I must have the wrong number.” “Yes,
I think so,” she says.
“The lines must be
crossed,” you say. “Yes,
I think so,” she /says
again. “I’m terribly
sorry,” you say. “That’s
all right,” she says, “I
think the. lines must be
crossed.” “Yes, that must
be it,” you agree, although
by now you are almost
certain you dialled the
wrong number. You
apologise and reluctantly
hang-up. Must be an
explanation for this
extraordinary pattern. It
could be that, having got
the wrong number, we
still like to get our
money’s worth. Yet some-
times the conversation
goes like this: “Hello!
Is that you, Harry?”
“No,” says a gruff voice,
“this is Dick.” “Sorry,”
you say, and hang-up.
❖ ❖ ♦+♦
“Sister Ellell”: Katy,
cet. five years, the
daughter of one of the ‘
few returned Sisters from
Hitler’s war who can still
get into her original grey
suit, was viewing the
Anzac March for the first
time. Her father was not so fortunate with
his original navy-blues—s’matter of fact,
I think they went away with the tide
when he was washed off H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia—so he marched in civvies. Said
the child afterwards, “My Mummy is a
real soldier, but my Daddy is only a
man! ”
*»♦
“Uramao”: A speaker in the Address-
in-Reply debate in N.Z.’s Parliament
cited a case of a civil servant over 65
and his wife. The husband, retired, draws
superannuation of £l2 weekly, and has
another job at £lO a week ; his wife also
earns a tenner a week. Both qualify for
the universal pension to all 65-ers no
matter what their earnings may be. This
brings in about £lOO each annually. Does
anyone know a better ’ole than Enzed?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Loki”: Made remarkable progress as
a competitor in the word-building con-
tests that .gave “W.P.T.” (B. 2/5/’56)
such a “shokk.” Completed entry for
Competition No. 1 in 10-minutes, without
using dictionary, and was within 25 points,
of the winner. Over Competition No. 2
I spent three days and used two medium-
sized dictionaries: 40 points behind the
winner. With No. 3 enlisted the aid of the
“ Frankly , I'd just as soon be on the old Yarra.”
whole family for 10 nights and ploughed
through two dictionaries you couldn’t
jump over. Found several high-scoring
words, such as “Klepht” (which, in my
opinion, describes the originator of the
contests), but finished about 60
behind. Noticed that all the winners
were housewives. Either Australian
women are smarter than the men or else
labor-saving devices have reached the
stage where the ladies can recline at
ease and waste their time doing word-
building contests. Suggested this to the
wife, and her flow of comments would
have made our old R.S.M. green with
envy.
“Do try and be more systematic , Emma. You know my nylons go
in file number eight!"
“Apemantus”: In the four days, April
25-28, 1956, of the 175 “In Memoriam”
notices in our one Westralian morning-
paper, four were “On Service.” Of these,
one referred to Korea, three to the 1939
war, and none at all to 1914-18, let alone
“The Landing.” This perhaps suggests
that “the going down of the sun” is almost
over.
“Jake”: An American psychoanalyst,
after dissecting Robinson Crusoe, has
diagnosed that “the story is merely the
reminiscences of a paranoiac-schizo-
phrenic.” It would be interesting to
hear his views on “Superman,” or an
elongateable gentleman called “Plastic
Man,” not to mention some not-so-comic
cuts that somehow arrive from the U.S.
* ❖ *>
“L.”: Perhaps 17, and with 20-
minutes’ accumulated service in the firm,
he made a lordly survey of the 18-35
typist group. “Oh, Harold,” he called
to his senior, “what about introducing me
to these delicious dolls?”
❖ *Z* ❖
“Teller”: A sidelight on the forged-
fiver scare in Melbourne is the number of
old-issue King George VI £5-notes that
have suddenly come into circulation. In
musty-smelling bundles for the most part,
they make one wonder just how much
cash is hoarded under carpets, mattresses,
etc., and whether such hoarding is due
to an inherent distrust of banks or is
merely a hangover from the days of the
blackmarket.
♦> *> ❖
“Geep”: It is not clear whether the
reply in “Brief Answers” (B. 25/4/’56)
that “scientolism” is a false or super-
ficial science is a definition or an expres-
sion of opinion. I can’t find it defined
in my Oxford, but it appeared in the
advertising columns of yesterday’s paper
in the form of “scientology.” I was
invited to a free lecture on this new
“science of human affairs, which treats
the livingness and beingness of man.”
Sounds like bullingness to me.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: An American industrial
designer says typewriters without keys or
typists will be in general use not long
hence. Businessmen will merely speak
into one end of a dicta ting-machine and
get a neatly-typed letter from the other.
A letter without a single spelling-error
should sell like hot cakes on novelty-
appeal alone. But a letter full of “urns,”
“ahs” and expressions like “Scrub that,”
“What was I saying?” and so forth would
be decidedly inferior to the business-
epistle of today, in which the dictator’s
hastily-expressed ideas ,are knocked into
shape by the stenographer. Let the auto-
mators beware, lest they drive executives
into the front-ranks of the marchers, yea,
even carrying their banners: “Down with
Automation! ”
❖ ❖ ►>
“Staff”: The first guard mounted with
a Nasho guard-commander. The G.O.C.
was due to visit the camp that morning,
and the R.S.M. rang the guardroom and
instructed the stick-orderly to ring him
back as soon as the G.O.C.’s car came
into sight. Twenty-minutes passed, and
still no call from the guardroom, so
further instructions to the orderly to let
the R.S.M. know when the Brass hove
into view. After about three or four
more frantic phone-calls the now-
flustered Nasho assured the R.S.M. that
he would stand out on the road and watch
for the car. Some minutes later a large
black car pulled up at the gate, and the
Nasho stuck his head into the car to
find out who was in it. “I’m the G.0.C.,”
said the Red-tab in the car; “where is
the guard?” “Never mind about the
flaming guard, mate,” said the Nasho;
“you’d better get down to B.H.Q. at the
double—the bloody R.S.M.’s looking for
you! ”
*z* ❖ *
“Mullum”: Charging of a lower
admission-price for the fair sex has not
altogether disappeared (B. 2/5/’56). One
country Rugby League club advertises its
Sunday “donation” as Gents 35., Ladies
2s. Seventy per cent, of its patrons pay
the 2s. “donation,” but, judging from
their comments and advice to the players,
“ladies” is rather an old-fashioned
description.
“P.0.M.C.”: Another enclosure to
enter which the average man coughs-up
considerably more than the average
woman is the average church. Ad-
mittedly, this charge becomes a moral
obligation only, but close observation dis-
closes that, on a trey-for-trey basis, the
pillars of most churches would indeed
be shaky if their maintenance depended
upon feminine contributions.
♦> +♦♦ ♦>
“F.”: The remarks of “Mugga Way”
(B. 18/4/’56) on the passing of “Boy”-
rating in the Royal Navy underline
another dubious advance. The Seaman-
Boy system did, in fact, turn out well-
trained material. Boys were entered
between 15* and 16* (13 to 14 was more
like the age of entry for the Dartmouth
Cadet). I was caught on the day before
my 16th birthday. I was then informed
that my pay was, “a bob a day until My
Lords see fit to advance you.” We Boys
had, apparently, no rights and few
privileges, and were surprisingly happy in
a coarse and boisterous fashion. Eight
years later I turned-up at Greenwich
College in yet another defunct rank, that
of “Mate.” The present Rear-Admiral
Mcßeath was a classmate.
RETRIBUTION
“Yass Council, whose mayor is a dentist,
secretly introduced sodium-fluoride into the
town’s water, and no one complained.”
When, with the secrecy of meter-reading
gasmen,
They fiuorided Yass water, there was
none to complain :
Alas, is the town populated by
Yass-men ?
Yes; at any rate, in the main.
Or maybe, remembering how water has
liquidated
Milk, whisky, beer, brandy and rum
in its time,
They felt that for water itself to be
adulterated
Was a punishment fitting the crime.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


/"'WERHEARD in a barber’s shop:
“The brother had a lot of trouble
to get permission to start. He had to
sling two-seventy-five-quid—two-and-a-
half to the bloke who issued the licence
and twenty-five-quid to a character to
introduce him to the first one.” I sup-
pose we have come a long way, but the
uninhibited recital of the participants in
the transactions, and the particulars,
aroused little interest in the crowded
shop, and the double-bribe was taken as
a matter of course.—“Ourimbah.”
“Wusslean”: After the
departure of the Krem-
lin’s test-team England is
relaxedly “settling down
to enjoy the artistry of
cricket,” according to a
Melbourne paper’s corres-
pondent lucky devil —
now in London. But what
about us Down Under? .
Before the first Test you
make a solemn vow not
to sit up for the broad-
casts later than 10.30 each
evening. At the end of
the fifth you heave a sigh
of relief that there’ll be no
more of the business of
dragging yourself off to
work, weary-eyed, morn-
ing after morning—not
for another four years.
❖ * ❖
“Pelm”: My chemist
reports that a woman
walked into his pharmacy
asking for a remedy for
her husband’s hangover.
He was in their car out-
side, she said. He had
been celebrating, in antici-
pation of the early arrival
of his first-born child,
which, in fact, was not
due for three weeks.
Could the chemist give
her spouse some dope to quieten him
until there was something to celebrate?
“Apemantus”: “The car-owner who
doesn’t join Motorists’ Mutual Aid misses
a lot of help,” said Slow-driver. “When
I had my troubles with the Traffic Branch
the Mutual Aid boys took over all the
work —tied-up all the loose ends, got me
a lawyer—everything. I didn’t have a
thing to do—except pay the fine.”
♦5 ♦> ♦>
“Mac Toots”: In reply to “Mac Hoots”
(B. 2/5/’56), who asks, “What’s wrong
with ‘Dear Sir or Madam’?” —there is
nothing wrong with it if you are
addressing hermaphrodites.
* * *
“P.”: The flustered truck-driver rushed
into the Income Tax Office, document in
hand, and presented the paper for in-
spection, saying that his boss had signed
the statutory declaration before a Justice
of the Peace. The tax-clerk said the docu-
ment was invalid as he had not seen the
driver’s employer sign the paper. A
visitor, overhearing this, remarked that
he was a J.P., and as the driver was
familiar with the circumstances in which
his employer signed, and the purport of
the declaration, the driver could append
his signature while he (the J.P.) could
“My rheumatics are killing me!”
“I like to have an after-lunch nap.”
witness it. But the clerk sent the driver
back to his employer’s premises for an-
other signature and also that of another
authorised witness.
* ♦> ♦>
“0.G.”: The girl next-door was
excitedly telling the woman at the
upstairs-window about the big ship on
which she had booked for a cruise to
the Islands. “And,” she told her, “the
booking-clerk gave us a cabin right down
near the water’s-edge—he said we
wouldn’t feel the motion so much down
there.” “I hope you have a nice time,
dearie, but don’t leave the porthole open
when you go to bed,” the woman at the
upstairs window warned her, “because in
those tropic places the tide rises seven-
feet every night.”
❖ ❖
“Erbury”: Book-publishers in Japan
are now producing more titles than any
other country in the world. Figures given
in the latest U.N. year-book, show
Japanese production in 1954 as 19,837
titles. Next come U.K. (19,188), Western
Germany (16,240), U.S.A. (11,901). But
Britain leads in first-editions, with
Western Germany, Japan and U.S.
following in that order.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: Notice in window of
Brisbane mercery-store: “Boy’s Rem-
nants, 7s. 6d.” Which shows that the
enginedriver who encountered the boy
at the level-crossing and merely “scraped
him off the wheel” was guilty of the sin
of wastefulness.
♦> ♦>
“Sparks”: Bystanders on Brisbane’s
William Jolly Bridge watched a group
of young men drag a limp body out of a
car and hurl it over the parapet into the
river below, making a quick getaway in
the waiting car. Soon a water-police
launch came speeding up the to
make a praiseworthy rescue of an artisti-
cally-prepared dummy. As it was the eve
of the University Commemoration Day
procession it didn’t require a Sherlock
Holmes to sheet home the blame. The
police were not amused —nor were the
workmen who were called out in the
drizzling, chilly dawn on Anzac Day to
scrub daubs of red paint off the statue of
Queen Victoria in Queen’s Park.
❖ ❖ ❖
“T.R.”: The illustration accompany-
ing the story “Death on the Danmap”
(B. 25/4/’56) shows several of the
soldiers with a few days’ growth of
beard. Our unit was close to the Dan-
map when that disaster occurred, and
we were inspected every day. Admittedly
the morale of the troops was low, as is
indicated by the high incidence of
malaria, but even then the area was
declared hyperendemic, and we were put
on two atebrin a day. On the hills
behind Wewak a soldier of the 2/4th
Battalion was fined £2, plus loss of his
efficiency-pay, for not shaving.
❖ ❖ +X+
“Bo”: I have given my custom to the
same barber for years, just as I go to
the same dentist and doctor—because I
dislike chopping and changing. Hitherto
Snips has had an invariable opening
remark: “Light-medium trim, sir?” and
just as invariable has been my emphatic
and laconic: “No —short.” This never
failed to cause him a pained expression,
and I fancy he always rushed up my
scalp with the electric-clippers with no
little vindictiveness at my impertinence
in demanding my four-bob’s worth. On
my last visit he apparently thought to
stun me with a tactic. “Short?” he asked
tersely. “No,” X barked back, “shorter! ”
The follicle-fancier doesn’t talk to me
now. That’s a break!
*l* ❖
“Wattlebird”: During the short-lived
railways dispute at Hobart, workers who
usually travelled by train were accom-
modated by bus shuttle-services to and
from their factories. An executive
passing the queue one morning opened
his car-door and called to those nearest
to hop in. The two front-seat passengers
were women, New Australians. He
unloaded them at their entrance and
drove on ; then, when about to leave the
car himself, discovered two shillings on
the seat, amount of their fare.
❖ ♦>
“Rkol”: Criticism of Melbourne’s
preparations for the Olympic Games is
losing much of its force as the stadium-
buildings and sports-arenas near comple-
tion. That Melbourne can hustle was
demonstrated by the Master Painters,
Decorators and Signwriters’ Association
when they had the 100 ft.-frontage of a
five-story Bourke-street building painted
in six hours, starting at 8.30 on a Satur-
day morning with a team of 50 painters.
♦♦♦
TN this centenary-year of the Victoria
Cross I have come into possession of
a large photograph bearing the caption
in silver lettering: “Dinner given by the
Hon. Hugh D. Mclntosh, M.L.C., to the
Australian V.C. winners, on Armistice
Night, Tuesday, 11th November, 1919, at
the Hotel Australia, Sydney.” The
mounting is autographed by: Sgt. W.
Peeler, V.C.; Lieut. J. Hamilton, V.C.;
W. Mark, V.C., D. 5.0.; W. A. Holman ;
K. Maclullan ; Hugh D. Mclntosh ; (the
next signature is plain enough, but the
handwriting is difficult to decipher; it
reads like nothing else but the impossible
“M. Stmeef”); J. H. Davidson; Lt. G.
Ingram, V.C., A.M.; Sgt. R. R. Inwood,
V.C.; Sgt. M. Buckley, V.C., D.C.M.;
G. Canluneeght, V.C.; J. Ryan, V.C.;
F. C. Bonella, V.C.; George A. Fuller;
Clifford H. Hay; Pte. R. Barclay; J.
Maxwell, Lieut., V.C., M.C. (Bar),
D.C.M. ; Edmund (the surname looks
like “Civell”); Bede Kenny, V.C.; W. M.
Currey, V.C.; G. Howell.” The actual
photograph measures lOin. by 12in., is
very clear and in amazingly good con-
dition, while the 36 years have not faded
the autographs in the slightest. A bottle
of ink and pen on the closest table
suggests that the mounting was auto-
graphed on the spot and the photograph
glued in place when developed. There
are 22 signatures, so it is reasonable to
assume that 22 photographs were auto-
graphed. It would be interesting to
know how many are still in existence. —
“8.A.K.”
SLIGHT HANDICAP
“Lake Cargellico (N.S.W.) Hospital has no
doctor. Patients have to be Ueated by phoi e
from Griffith, 84 miles away.
If it feels your inside
In some knots has been tied,
And some barnacles lodged on your
liver,
And you're lying in bed
With a pulsating head,
And you’re shaking the ward as you
shiver,
You can come to no harm.
There’s no cause for alarm
That your malady might become
chronic;
Though you’re paler than wax
Just lie. back and relax
While some treatment you get
telephonic.
“Hello, hello, hello,
Is that Lake Cargellico ?
(Listen, can ycfu get off the line
a minute ?) ■ . .
That you, Sister ? Doctor here.
Well, how’re things .. . What’s
that ? ■ .Severe ?
Um • ■ • Sounds like that .
Yes, put some aspirin in it.
Should he get more pain, you
know . ■ •
Hello — dammit! —hello
(No, madam, this is not the
blasted grocer!) . . .
Oh, is that you, Sister ? . . .
Yes . . .
Breathings showing some distress?
Hold the transmitter to his
chest . . . Now closer.’’
Oh, it’s nice for the staff,
Should-some citizen quaff,
Mistakenly, pure prussic-acid,
Just to know that in, say,
Something like half-a-day
The doc.’s there. It renders ’em placid.
An appendix may bust,
Or a bloke crack his crust,
The baby a razor-blade swallow —
But, bless you ! 'They’re set
If the doc. they can get
On the phone, and instructions they
follow.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
«***m7m
NPV3OI
PERSONAL ITEMS
The first six of Victoria’s surviving 12
V.C.-winners are on their way to England
in the Orcades to attend the celebrations
for the centenary of the decoration, four
others following shortly. Robert Grieve,
who is too ill to make the trip, will be the
only one to miss, and Bill Dunstan, a
director of the Melbourne newspapers
which gave the Victorians £5OO each for
expenses, flies from Sydney.
Those aboard the Orcades are George
Ingram, R. V. Moon, W. R.
Kelliher, E. Kenna and Bill Joynt; the
four to follow are Bill Ruthven, M.L.A.,
Walter Peeler, L. D. McCarthy and 82-
year-old James Rogers, who won his
cross in the Boer War and is ill at Heidel-
berg Repat. Hospital, but says he’ll still
make it.
• •
Douglas Maxwell Moffat, who was
appointed U.S. Ambassador to Australia
in February, arrived in Canberra some
weeks back. Born at Stanhope, New
Jersey, in 1881, he’s a Yale B.A. and
LL.B., cum laucle, from Harvard Law
School. Since 1913 he’s been a partner
in the law-firm of Cravath, Swaine and
Moore of New York City. Deputy Alien
Property Custodian during War I, with
headquarters in Manila, in World War II
he served for a period as U.S. Govern-
DIPLOMACY
ment representative at the Middle East
Supply Centre, a joint undertaking with
the British Government. Currently a
member, representing the public, on the
New York advisory board on rates of pay
and hours of employment on public
works, he was chairman of the temporary
commission on the use of television for
educational purposes, is on the
standing committee of the Episcopal
Diocese of New York, warden of St.
James Episcopal Church of New York
City, and member of the executive com-
mittee of the Pilgrims of the United
States. He’s looking forward to meeting
Australian members of St. Andrew’s
Society of Scotland.
• 0
“E.H.”: Can’t let that “Silence” par. on
my old company-commander, Captain
Farquharson (B. 18/4/’56), pass. He
transferred from the 10th Light Horse to
the old 28th Battalion (not 2/28th). He
was wounded five times and suffered from
a bad jaw-wound. I always remember
him jumping off at Villers-Bret. on the
morning of August 8, 1918. So eager
was he that he plunged through the
wheat-crop and hit a barbed-wire cork-
screw with his bad jaw in the heavy
ground-mist at 4.20 a.m. He was knocked-
out, but recovered to stand-off the
stretcher-bearers. Years ago, when the
challenge came about what to do with
the Corns., he electrified the R.S.L. Con-
gress by shouting “Shoot the b s, the
same as they would do to me.”
• •
Two New Zealanders who called at
The Bulletin office in Sydney last week
were Charles Brasch, from Dunedin, and
Dr.' Walter Whittlestone, Ruakura.
Brasch edits the literary quarterly “Land-
fall,” which he says is going well on its
State Literary Fund grant of £3OO a year
—with a circulation of about 600, “Land-
fall” kept going five years without Gov-
ernment aid. Dr. Whittlestone, who’s at
the Government agricultural research-
station at Ruakura, has been in Bombay
under the Colombo Plan, helping the
Indians to milk water-buffaloes by
machinery; which extraordinary feat he
says is possible, though it is a moot point
whether it would pay 1 the Indians better
to mechanise their buffaloes or to make
synthetic milk from soya-beans—which
is also, apparently, possible.
• •
“H.H.” (London): Bernard Shore,
C.8.E., due at Sydney’s Mascot aero-
drome on May 23, is, to quote the official
title, H.M. Inspector of Music, Board of
Education. His is the rare instance of
a professional musician turning civil-
servant. That was in 1947, after a dis-
tinguished career on the concert-platform.
A bomb-accident to the right hand in
War I cut short his organ-study, so he
took up the viola, winning a Royal
College of Music Gold Medal.
Later, he studied under Lionel Tertis
and, in 1930, was appointed principal
viola to the newly-formed 8.8. C. Sym-
phony Orchestra, and also joined the
Catterall Quartet. After war-service to
the R.A.F., he taught at the academies
until Whitehall claimed him full-time.
So here is a musician whose activities
and enthusiasm extend from the latest
concerto (he may introduce this, by
Edmund Rubbra, to Australian audi-
ences) to recorder-playing by infants.
Main activities during his two months
in Australia: the Melbourne Seminar
(of Music and Education) and lecture-
recitals in four capitals and on the air.
Though first-visiting, he is no stranger,
since his books, The Orchestra Speaks
and Sixteen Symphonies, have sold well
in Australia. Is looking forward to meet-
ing old friends, notably Bernard Heinze,
a College contemporary, and Laurence
Kennedy, sometime principal ’cellist of
the 8.8. C. Symphony Orchestra.
• •
Swallowing the anchor after 44 years
at sea, N. A. Whinfield, commodore of
the Orient Line and captain of its newest
ship, Orsova, since she made her maiden
voyage to Fremantle in 1951. Before
that he’d been at the bridge of Orcades,
Orion and Ormonde, and from 1936 to
1947 was Orient’s assistant marine-
superintendent, supervising the conver-
sion of many liners into troopships.
During World War I he gained a
“mention,” when the ship of which he
was second-mate sank a submarine off
Dakar. He’s been 33 years with the
Orient Line.
9 9
“H.”: Old Diggers are still making
their mark in many fields, and some of
them show no signs of fading away. Here
in Maryborough (Q.), near enough to 41
years since he landed on Gallipoli with
the 15th Battalion, Major R. A. (Bob)
Hunter has been elected mayor of his
native city.
Thirty-four years a permanent soldier,
he was described by Major Toft, in his
story “Playing a Man’s Game,” as one
of the finest fighting-men of the A.I.F.
He rates a mention in Bean’s Official War
History, which says a sortie he led from
Quinn’s Post was the heaviest task of its
kind performed by an Australian unit
during War I. On his return from the
sortie he was paraded, with the nine
survivors of the party of 40, before Bird-
wood and Monash. The 15th Battalion
History records that Hunter was a young
sergeant in command of C-company at
Quinn’s on May 18, when the Turks
tried to drive the Australians into the sea.
He was wounded in the leg, on May 29,
during the retaking of Quinn’s. After
three years in England, as a result of his
wound, he went to France and won the
Military Medal in his first action.
An all-round sportsman in his younger
days (Rugby Union, Soccer, boxing), he
was also a King’s Cup rower and selector-
\coach of successful King’s Cup crews. In
1929 he won the King’s Medal for the
best Army rifle-shot in Queensland.
Today he plays a comfortable game of
bowls. \
0 0
With special claim to have been the
oldest man with a personal interest in
the recent Anglican centenary-celebra-
tions at Bunbury (W.A.), 93-year-old G.
H. Withers, of Northam, is the oldest liv-
ing person who sailed on the Lord Dal-
housie (with his parents) to Fremantle in
1863. Among the other passengers were
100 soldiers and 300 convicts. His father,
Rev. Joseph Withers, was appointed by
the Home Government to take over a
parish at Greenough, but the Bishop of
Bunbury retained him there. He re-
mained rector of Bunbury for 30 years.
0 0
Calling it a day after 51 years with the
P.M.G. Department, Walter Ambrose
(WaJly) Martin, who has been super-
intendent of mails at Adelaide, Brisbane,
Melbourne and Sydney'. He joined the
department at Grong Grong, a smallish
place near Narrandera (N.S.W.), and, as
was the custom in those rugged times,
chopped the postmaster’s wood and
milked his cow in addition to more
official chores. At retirement he con-
trolled a permanent staff of 2300 in
Sydney, apart from the hordes of casuals
put on to handle Christmas and other
peak-period mail. In between, he’s
travelled around Australia a lot in the
way of duty, and has made flocks of
friends. Reminiscing, in at The
Bulletin, he mentioned scores of odd
jobs, odd problems, that have come his
way. Material, one would think, for a
Bulletin special-article. In 1934 he went
to Darwin with Lester Brain and “Scotty”
Allan to look after the postal side of the
new Qantas-Imperial Air Service, and he
was in charge of letters and parcels in
Adelaide for evacuees from Darwin in
War 11. When they arrived, the mail was
there, waiting. A special service on a
Sunday afternoon.
Arrived in Sydney last week, in
H.M.A.S. Melbourne (the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy’s new aircraft-carrier and
flagship), Commander (Air) Roland
Henry Hain, a New Australian of long
standing, a lover of food and wine and
conversation, known to all his messmates
as “Butch.”
Born at Wimbledon (Eng.), he sailed
before the mast in 1929 (one voyage),
was later an apprentice, got his second-
mate’s ticket in Sydney, 1934-35, became
FLEET AIR ARM
tired of the merchant-service and was
accepted for a short-service commission
with the R.A.F., swapped-over when the
Admiralty asked for volunteers from the
R.A.F. for the F.A.A., was flying Sword-
fish with 813 Squadron when War II
broke, later went to the Mediterranean
(torpedo-attacks on Tobruk harbor and
places in Sicily), and was shot down in
September, ’4l, after a raid on Rhodes
and had to swim. P.-0.-w. “with ups and
downs” until the end, then went back
to flying. He went to the Glory as senior
pilot, then was C.O. of 837 Sqiiadron—
Fireflies. Revisited Australia, “fell in love
with the place again. No desire to return
to England. Wrangled transfer to the
R.A.N.”
He’s keen on physical fitness. Carries
a bicycle on board, and at each port of
call can be seen pedalling earnestly into
the countryside. Has a feeling for words,
and a flair for lively description.
• •
“Moorapi”: Percy Pavey, winner of
the King’s (or Queen’s) Prize 12 times,
has left for Bisley (Eng.) as captain and
coach of our 1956 team. Now champion
marksman of the British Commonwealth,
he has been in every Australian rifle-team
competing for the prize since 1928.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 69, Neville Charles Laurence,
formerly (he retired some years back) of
Laurence and Laurence, one of Sydney’s oldest
legal firms. A keen yachtsman and all-round
sportsman, he was an early Shore boy and
captain of its First XV.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 101, James Johnston
Woods, b'orn at Woolloomooioo, Sydney, and
taken to New Zealand as a child; his parents
went in for farming near Warkworth. A con-
tractor and builder, bridges and churches were
his speciality; eight churches of the Anglican
persuasion standing as a monunient to him.
Member of the Savage Club orchestra and the
Choral Society in Auckland.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 95, Michael Keefe.
Another Australian-born child taken to New
Zealand, he was twice single-sculls champion
of N.Z. (1892 and 1894), mile-champion in
1886, represented Auckland at Rugby, and when
Stoddart’s English team toured New Zealand
in 1888, was in the home side that played
against it.
In Perth, at 71, Gerald Austin William Piesse,
pastoralist, formerly of Albany and Wagin.
Before he was forced by illness to retire he had
been active in road-board and agricultural affairs
for over 30 years. A life-councillor and past
president of the W.A. Royal Agricultural
Society, he was awarded the M.B.E. in 1951.
At Black Rock (Vic.), at 82, Harry Lay,
oldest inhabitant, and life-member, of the Mel-
bourne Bowling Club —itself 100 years old.
At Esperance (W.A.), at 50, Hubert Richard
Cantwell, prominent Westralian Country Week
cricketer; he represented Westralia in two
matches against visiting English sides, and made
top score of 66 for W.A. Colts against Arthur
Gilligan’s M.C.C. side in 1924. As captain ot
the Railways XI, he was batting when he
collapsed, and died soon afterwards.


WHY THEY TAKE THEM


ABORIGIANLITIES
* * * *
"DISHING a quiet stretch of a northern
-*■ N.S.W. beach I saw a wallaby come
out of the banksia-scrub and enter the
water less than 50yds. from where I
stood. As though completely unaware
of my presence, Wal sported in the waves,
and at times almost disappeared from
view. After a while he came out and
hopped further along the beach, but, as
though unable to resist it, returned to the
water again. This was repeated a number
of times as he drew further away until,
finally, I could barely see the lone surfer
in the distance.—“Vee Jay.”
**' * *
“Ceg”: The home rocked as a first-class
domestic brawl proceeded to its climax.
Of hessian, bark and flattened kerosene-tin
construction, and occupied by Old Aus-
tralians, both jet-black, the residence stood
in a paddock alongside the fairway of a
golf-course near the Clarence River
(N.S.W.). It shook violently ; then Jacky
shot through its flapping portals, followed
by a hurled tomahawk and a stream of
abuse. From a safe 50yds. Jacky an-
nounced his intention of clearing out, his
parting words full of menace. “You’ll
soon be in a plurry mess,” he shouted.
“Don’t forget I pay the rent.” He did,
too —the purely nominal one, for legal
purposes, of 3d. a week.
* * * *
“Noah”: For some reason Australia
dropped making smoking-pipes after the
war, and once again England and France
have control of the market. Turned from
mallee-root and some straight-grained
timbers, the local pipe lacked the cool-
smoking qualities of the briar, yet the
workmanship, considering war-time con-
ditions, was good. The abundant varieties
of Australian woods should produce at
least one kind suitable for pipe-making,
or, alternatively, surely an imported type
would thrive somewhere here. It is an
industry worth promoting; given the right
materials, Australian craftsmen could add
yet another article to our export-trade.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Can never understand why
Nature has not endowed the rabbit, prob-
ably the most hunted
creature, with some means
of protection other than
speed. When overtaken, he
is plainly defenceless, and
the sporting odds don’t seem
right. It appears he exists
for the sole purpose of being
chased, eaten and converted
into men’s hats and women’s
coats ; hence his reprisal in
doing as much pasture-
damage as he can in the
meantime.
* * *
“Tickie”; Our domesti-
cated member of the Stone
Age race was limping badly
as he scouted for the un-
wary smoker. The limp gave
the town a better-than-even
chance of smoking its own,
and Toby would have been
reduced to smoking his
own, but he collared the
minister emerging from the
post-office. “Ah, your
Grace ...” The minister,
while being milked in the
name of human kindness,
made conversation. “What’s
up, Toby? Touch of
rheumatism? Accident?”
“Nah,” says Toby. “New
shoes. Did you ever wear
’em? Eh?”
* * *
“Uramao”: New Zealand has an
orchid, Pterostylis trulliflora, which uses
a strange process to further cross-
fertilisation. When an insect alights on
the slender plant’s supersensitive lip the
pressure of the almost imperceptible
little feet is sufficient to cause the lip to
close and thrust the insect into a prison-
cell ; however, a means of exit is pro-
vided through a narrow passage. The
intruder is first smeared with a sticky
substance; then collects pollen-grains on
its way to the exit. The insect goes to
another flower of the same species, and in
order to escape must pass over the stigma,
thus leaving the pollen-grains on it to
complete the pollination.
* * * *
“Wint”: He was sitting in his “bomb”
at the country football-match. On a
collapsible support fitted to the wind-
screen-bracket he’d mounted an ancient
brass telescope. “Souvenir from the
First World War,” he told me. . “Use it
for picking-up ’roos in the bush, but it’s
“Jack doesn't seem to be here this Weekend."
the goods for this, too. You’d be sur-
prised what goes on in these scrums. Have
a look, mate! ” I did ; it was certainly
a revelation.
* * * *
“Spin”: Found the lawn covered with
bits of spider-web, with more coming
up on the breeze. Investigated and found
that many of the pieces of web each
supported a baby-spider, and realised I
was witnessing a mass-exodus from home.
About the only thing a mother-spider will
do for her offspring after they’re hatched
is provide each with a miniature para-
chute to enable them to disperse, and to
make sure they don’t set-up house on her
hunting-grounds. The grey-wolf spider
may appear to be more solicitous to-
wards her brood when she’s carrying
them around on her back; actually she’s
only giving them a lift beyond her sphere
of influence.
* * * *
“Myall”: Add to “Swelpme’s” list of
albinos (B. 18/4/‘56) a white “black”
snake. A resident of Surfer’s Paradise
(Q.) captured the 15in.-long freak in his
yard. Naturalist David Fleay, to whom
it was sent for identification, used scale-
counts and scale-shapes to establish its
species. As well as having a pure-white
overcoat, Joe was red-eyed and pink-
tongued. When held up against the light,
it was possible to see lizard-meals in his
innards.
* * * #
“Sparks”: A while back there was
mention in a Bulletin item of an attempt
to be made by the Queensland Under-
water Research Group to solve the 69-
year-old mystery of a wreck, believed
to be that of the barque Scottish Prince,
lying in 40ft. of
water about half-a-
mile off Southport.
It was thought
she’d had a load of
whisky aboard.
Said mystery has
been duly solved ;
evidently Scottish
Prince all right;
and to prove it
they brought up
five bottles of the
best, all barnacle-
encrusted, and one
bearing the date
“1881” on its seal.
The vessel sank on
February 2, 1887,
after striking a reef.
According to a
manifest, she was
carrying a cargo of
sewing - machines,
galvanised-iron and
crates of Scotch
and Irish whisky
from England. Her
crew, abandoning
ship, were rescued.
The Underwater
fraternity, working
in relays, surfaced
two bottles of Irish
and three of
Scotch. The Gov-
ernment Analyst
reported it 77 per
cent, proof spirit, containing 9 per cent,
sulphur bacteria which were dead and
harmless. Those who sampled it said it
had a sour, unpleasant, burning taste. It’s
reckoned that more of the stuff, buried
deep among the cargo and protected by
a heavy layer of sand, would be sweeter
and more palatable. Apparently, how-
ever, it isn’t going to be salvaged. Still,
it’s nice to know it’s there, in case of
snakebite.
* * * *
“Bookie’s Dog”: A Melbourne sporting
paper publishes as a “news”-item that
Darwinites have discovered that soil from
anthills makes excellent cricket-pitches —
perhaps better than the conventional turf.
People in the giant-anthill country have
known that for many a long year. When
our unit was in the Darwin area in ’44 we
used the soil not only for cricket-pitches
but for tennis-courts and a basketball-
court. Both took a pounding from Army
boots day after day, and at the end of our
12-months in the area were as good as
when we laid them.
* * lie *
A LTHOUGH the North Queensland
hurricane of a month or so back
(yclept “Agnes”) had plenty of pushing-
power, “San Q.” is on the target when
he suggests (B. 25/4/’56) that it was
benign compared with the Big Blow of
March, 1918.
For evidence in point, consult E. J.
Banfield’s posthumous book Last Leaves
from Dunk Island. As indicated there,
the coast of N.Q. was hit in that -summer
by two old-man storms, one (January)
centring on the Mackay-Rockhampton
area and the other (March) striking
farther north. The second blow pressed
heavily on Banfield—not because of
what he and his wife suffered but rather
because of the loss of life that occurred
among his friends on the mainland
opposite the island —and it was still beat-
ing in his mind when I visited him three
years later.
Yet, to my surprise, there was then no
trace of the havoc wrought by the Big
Blow. Photographs in Last Leaves bear
on this point: one taken in 1918 shows
a devastated foreshore; another of the
same spot taken in 1921 indicates how
remarkably the tropic vegetation had
recovered in the meantime. Obviously a
consoling factor associated with these
tropical hurricanes is the strong recupera-
tive powers of the land —and of its
human inhabitants as well.
When visiting the mainland one day I
encountered a hefty ex-Digger, a slow-
speaking fellow who (so “The Beach-
comber” had told me) was one of the
many whose houses had been blown
away; and, after a few preliminaries, I
suggested to him that the cyclone must
have been highly unpleasant.
“Yeees,” he drawled, “it was bad, all
right.” He meditated a while and then
added, “But I was very lucky.”
“Lucky!” said I. “Didn’t you have
your house blown away?”
He meditated again. “Yeees,” he said,
“but that wall there” —pointing to the
12ft.-high back wall of his shack —“that
wall held out and I sat behind it all night.
Yeees, I was lubky, all right.”
PHIL ANTHUS.
A HORSE IN THE CITY
“You can keep your buses and cars,
I’U take a horse.”
“A horse?”
“Yes.”
“Don’t be mad ;
What would you do with a horse?”
“Ride it, of course.
You know where I’d ride? I’d ride to the park
And beyond, by the beach, to the hills
And along through the scrub to a place I know
Where a thin little rivulet spills;
And I’d sit in the saddle and dream some
dreams,
And after a while I’d take
To a winding trail that I rode as a boy
To the edge of the moonlit lake. . .
I’d ride to the end of the world of trees
And the horse could set the pace
As long as I had the sky and the stars
And the night-wind in my face.”
“If you had a horse. Why, you can’t ride.”
“I can.”
But the fellow laughed,
“And where in the city would you keep a horse
If you had a horse? You’re daft.”
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Read.
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH. !
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l{ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
If you really care for
yoUr car always use
s'
L
Sfrie — jG L c&e&£z—&ijl2-
Just like people, car engines respond to kind-
ness. Try it and see. Give your car the
blended, balanced, cushioning lubrication
of ENERGOL. Then sit back, relax and /
wait for your reward—easy starting,
smooth running and a firm refusal
by your engine to cause you undue
expense or trouble. A planned
programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and
your car on the best
of terms —particularly
on resale value.
'■■Vm
m
A complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oil*
and ENERGREASES and
Special ENERGOL Visco-
Static 4-grades-in-l Motor Oil,
specially recommended for
. few or well-conditioned engines,
is available where you see these pumps.
MOM:Tef,T»
LUBRICATION SERVICE
BUPE
an
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,
C375D
WHEN feed was plentiful in the pad-
dock the little mare was as hard to
catch as q flea. She would lay back her
ears, bare her teeth and the whites of her
eyes and rush you at full gallop, swing-
ing off about 20yds. away. More often
than not you walked home with an empty
bridle. A handful of oats in your hat,
an apple or even a carrot was useless as
bait. Then one morning, when she was
in the little yard, Mrs. Mac accidentally
discovered her weak spot. As soon as
the mare spotted the sky-blue blouse she
came trotting up, whinnying with
pleasure, and nuzzled her head against
that magic garment. No more trouble
after that: a blue blouse or a blue shirt
and she was ours. So the bower-bird is
not alone in that color-preference. —“Old
Mac.”
* * * *
“Vincit”: The flies had been very
troublesome on the way to the little farm
where I was to stay, so that when we
reached the house I noted with satisfac-
tion the new gauze fly-door between the
veranda and kitchen. Then I saw it was
held ajar by a block of wood. I asked
the reason. “Well,” said my host, “the
cats have always had the run of the
kitchen, and it don't seem right some-
how to bar ’em at this stage!”
• • * *
“Half-Dirty”: When I bought the
drover’s old horse-wagon everyone had
the same query: “Whadda y’ want t’ buy
that heap of junk for?” Giving them all
the appropriate answer, I stripped the
thing down for the sake of its axle-boxes
to use as spare forge-tuyeres. Then the
procession of the original scathing
observers started: “Can y’ spare a couple
of them wheel-spokes?” “What about
that spring-buckle?” “Do y’ want that
swingle-tree?” “I could do with that
turntable and axle,” etc. If I’d sold all
the wreckage-items for a zack each I’d
have made 200 per cent, on the deal.
Only paid half-a-quid for the lot in the
first place.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Few fowl arouse such
mixed feelings as the rainbow-bird
(.Merops ornatus). The scientific name
supplies most of the explanation: merops,
meaning bee-eater, and ornatus adorned.
For grace and beauty the bird has no
peer among Australian avians. Mostly
green and blue above, it sports an orange
patch behind the neck; a corresponding
orange patch below the beak joins a black
band on the lower throat, with the balance
of underparts a light green. Flight
reveals brownish-orange beneath the
wings. Lovely both in flight and in repose
it does eat bees ; but its chosen habitat is
open country and it rarely seeks the bees
out in those eucalypt-forests where
apiarists farm their hives. If the bees
come within the bird’s range it is just
too bad for the honeymakers, but if they
don’t, the rainbow is quite content
“Finished with that mooring?"
stoking-up on other insects, particularly
blowflies.
* * * *
“Mullum”: The ledgerkeeper of a
N.S.W. country bank had announced his
engagement, and during the subsequent
celebration some statistically-minded
bloke pointed out that the manager had
one child, the accountant two children,
the third-officer three and the teller four.
Ledgerkeeper decided to postpone
wedding-day till he’d been transferred to
another branch.
* * # *
“Baksac”: If the tawny-frogmouth is
related to the nocturnal nightjar (B.
4/4/’56), he differs from the American
nightjar in at least one respect. The
Aussie bird, though he camouflages
himself by roosting in daylight with his
head and beak pointing upwards like a
broken-off branch, sits at right-angles to
the limb in the orthodox avian manner;
the Yank doesn’t—he sits lengthwise,
thereby both concealing and shielding
himself more effectively from enemies
below. Incidentally, the bird that Tin-pan
Alley has publicised so long and con-
sistently (despite the fact that whip-poor-
will does not rhyme with moonlight or
June night) is a member of the nightjar
family.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Pidgin as she is spelt
is looming as a new chore for school-kids
in New Guinea and Papua. A new
orthography of the “language” has been
prepared with the object of standardising
spelling, and primers and readers for
children and adults are being prepared.
The orthography, described as “linguistic-
ally sound and consistent,” follows an
analysis of pidgin made by Dr. R. A,
Hall, Jnr., Professor of Modern
Languages at Cornell, U.S.A., during a
recent visit. It was prepared by a Ford
Foundation Fellow, Rev. Dr. L. J.
Luzbetak, in association with education-
research officer T. A. Dietz. The general
idea is to use pidgin for teaching reading
and writing, towards teaching all children
to read and write English.
* * * *
“Jas.”: So “Sackville” wants to back a
black-and-white “sandpiper” as our
fastest avian runner, “gait-for-weight”
(B. 25/4/’56)? Before he gets his dough
on, he’d better get the name of his
champion right. There are no pied birds
among the seven sandpipers that visit us
from the Northern Hemisphere during
the summer months, and of native sand-
pipers we have none. From “S.’s”
graphic description of the rapidity with
which his bird moves its legs, and the
manner of its flight, I am certain his
champ, is a dotterel —probably the red-
kneed variety. Dotterels belong to the
same family as plovers, and are only
related to sandpipers in popular fancy.
Nine species occur in Australia, live
native-hatched, three from the frozen
north, and one —the double-banded —
from New Zealand.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Anyone who doesn’t believe
that man is an awkwardly-built, top-
heavy animal without adequate means
of defence can test the issue with an old
crossbred ewe I had to shift to another
paddock. With her lamb, she was about
quarter-of-a-mile from the gate when 1
collected her into a small mob and began
hazing them along. The lamb had no
sense of direction, was pig-headed, stupid,
with an unquenchable determination to
run. The dog moved out to help, the ewe
opened hostilities, and after a skirmish
or two the mong retreated to safe cover.
I caught the full charge, and bit the dust.
Thinking it a case of mistaken identity
I treated the matter too lightly, and
presently copped another which up-ended
me. My exasperated kick merely bounced
harmlessly off her thick woollen padding.
1 made a swipe at the lamb, tried to
dodge, stumbled, and again collected.
It was a battle all the way till I shut
the gate. When last seen, that lousy
1001 b. animal was quietly hoeing into the
lush new pasture, the incident forgotten,
while my superior bulk limped home.
* * * *
AMONG avian comedians, the brolga
has the authentic Chaplin touch. It
is a real Tivoli turn when a few of them
start tossing small piemelons and pump-
kins (often with a long trailer of vine
attached) above their heads during their
dances. We had a young brolga, a station
pet, whose chief delight was to wait until
the boss got under the car ; then he would
cautiously advance towards the open kit
of tools and quietly purloin a spanner
or such. Holding it in his beak, he’d
do a little dance while waiting for the
explosion when the boss discovered his
loss. It was one of the sights of the
station to see the boss chivvying the
brolga round and round the night-pad-
dock in pursuit of his spanner, the bird
waiting till the boss almost caught up
with him,. then taking a graceful leap
into the air just out of reach. They were
the best of friends,. the boss being ’the
only person with whom the brolga would
condescend to tread a measure. It rather
staggered visitors to see the pair out on
the gibbers, arms and wings waving, as
they wove their way through the
intricacies of a minuet. —“J. 8.”
MOONRISE
The moon is up. It’s shining round and full
On a long string of trailers piled with wool.
The headlights throw deep shadows on the road
As the squat trailers lurch by, load on load,
Drawn by a diesel tractor snorting smoke
Foul as a stinking dragon ... To unyoke,
We spelled here in the old days now long past.
The moon is up. I see long shadows cast
By trees that line the road; in silhouette
Long wagons stand. I’ve not forgotten yet . 4 •
QUEENSLAND.
SYD. STRUTION.


Cop* Ml
*
\
QUEENSLAND
\
★
★Jr
\r
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
Poftlfiad
"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmontli.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.B.E. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant
Manager: A. B. Tilemapn. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector : R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
An Interesting Career
Accountant, with journalistic inclina-
tion, wanted for financial columns of
The Bulletin. Interesting career and
good salary. Apply in own hand-
writing, to Economist, Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Friend
WOULD THOMAS A-LEXA.NDKK EEIeR-
SON, formerly of the Australian Military
Forces, Northern Territory, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, communicate
with MOLOMBY & MOLOMBY, Solicitors,
99 Queen Street, Melbourne?
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ANTON KAHARLISKY late of
Glenbawn Dam. —TAKE NOTICE tha
PASHA KAHARLISKY had filed her Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 273 of 19.06 on th
grounds of desertion without just cau
or excuse for three years and upwards i
you intend to defend you may enter -
appearance in the Divorce f e =‘' l
Supreme Court King Street Sydney .
the 23rd day of July 1956 and obtain-
copy of the Petition without charge f
MR". G. M. STAFFORD, Solipitor,_
Elizabeth Street, Sydney 7 . —J. DOLuU
Registrar.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Dull on ’Change
ON the Stock Exchanges at
present turnovers are small,
and for the moment some
brokers are scratching to pay
salaries and the rent. It is quite
often a dull period at this time
of the year, and tax-payments
have a lot to do with that.
Because of heavy income-tax
collections during April the
Commonwealth Government was
able to retire £6B million of
Treasury-bills; and big tax-
collections should continue
during May and June. Some of
the money to meet tax-payments
is being taken from the share-
market.
Disappointments still crop-up
in half-yearly reports and
interim divs. On the other hand,
bonus-issues and/or div.-
increases have come from better-
managed or more fortunate con-
cerns. Pope Industries, in
Adelaide, is making a big bonus-
and-cash issue which will in effect
mean a large div.-increase at the
end of this year. McDowells,
Sydney retailer, is doing the
same.
The National Bank of Austra-
lasia reports that public demand
has swung away from luxury
goods and high-priced lines, but
essential goods continue to sell
readily. This is confirmed by
most interim company-reports.
Only where an industry is over-
capitalised (such as the textile
industry) do essential goods fail
to be remunerative. Among
woollen-textile manufacturers,
Australian Woollen Mills, Ltd.,
partly because of its strong sales-
organisation, appears to be still
flourishing.
Tooth shares continue weak at
495., yielding 4.7 p.c.
Minster, Ltd., 10s, shares have
been active in Melbourne at 31s.
to 355, on unconfirmed reports
of further capital developments
towards the end of the financial
year. The additional plant
should be operating by about
October.
Tobacco shares have been
depressed. Rothmans £1 ords. are
selling at 14s. 6d ; Philip Morris
at 17s. British Tobacco at 335.
is down ss. from last year’s
“high.”
Accommodation (Aust.) shares
havevbeen reaching up towards
par since the opening of the
Canberra motel. TV Corp. ss.
scrip has sunk to 3s. 3d., though
transmission equipment is start-
ing to rise into the sky in the
Gore Hill and Willoughby
districts in Sydney. Profits from
TV in Australia seem a long way
off.
Yarra Falls at 255. is at its
lowest level for many years. Its
troubles are mostly on the
marketing side. When these are
overcome the undoubted effi-
ciency of the co.’s mills should
be revealed in earnings.
A.C.L and I.C.L have been
consistently supported in recent
market weakness. B.H.P.
recovered following announce-
ment of the lift in the price of
steel. Bank of N.S.W. has firmed
since the placement of its new
issue, and Burns Philp has
steadied at 545. 6d. following the
G. J. Coles offer for Penneys.
The engineering group is
having variable market support.
Malcolm Moore Industries has
weakened; Thirlwell and Mc-
Kenzie has shown substantial
recovery on “informed” buying.
Gibson Battle ords. remain
around half their par-value. C. C.
Engineering and C. C. Die Cast-
ing have slipped following the
omission of the interim by the
latter. In the hardware trade,
R. B. Davies £1 ords. have
dropped below par for the first
time.
“Glamor” stock Paccai
(Petroleum and Chemical Cor-
poration) last week slumped
below 305., after notching
455. 6d. in 1955. The co. has
apparently had some teething-
troubles with its plant, which
hasn’t been operating very long.
The Export Trade
-MINISTER for Trade McEwen
says that consumer-goods
now constitute only 12 p.c. of
Australia’s imports. The demand
now was for “production
imports” (machinery, raw
materials, etc.), and the
tremendous industrialisation that
had occurred in Australia since
the war would perpetuate this
demand. “If we are to pay for
these imports,” Mr. McEwen
said, “industry itself must provide
more export earnings. It must
above all become export-
conscious. It must also explore
all the conventional and novel
devices of export-merchandising,
from packaging to the ‘know-
how’ of the export business.”
Mr. McEwen, when he made
these remarks, was guest-
speaker at a dinner given by the
Melbourne Chamber of Com-
merce to inaugurate the Aus-
tralian Institute of Exports. The
institute will provide special
courses at the University of
Melbourne to train businessmen
in export industries.
Australia had a favorable
commodity-balance of £lO
million during April. It was the
first trading surplus since the
wharf-strike in January. For the
10 months to the end of April the
adverse visible trade-balance was
£65.7 million, which compares
with an adverse balance of
£53.7 mildon for the same period
of the preceding year. Secondary
industry made very little con-
tribution to ouf export earnings
during the period. Exports were
£15.6 million lower at £620
million; imports were £3.6
million less at £686 million.
The New Savings-banks
T\EPOSITS in the two new
savings-bank offshoots of
the Bank of N.S.W. and the
A,N.Z. Bank (they set-up in
January) aggregated £24.4
million at the end of March.
(At April 30, £2l million.)
Total savings-bank deposits at
the end of March were £llOB
million, compared with £lO9l
million at the end of December,
1955. It appears that the new
ventures haye taken some
deposits away from the
Commonwealth Savings Bank,
as well as, probably, money
previously on current account in
their own trading sections.
Pope Industries, Ltd.
TTIGH earning-power by Pope
Industries, Ltd., of Adelaide,
is apparently expected by its
directors to continue. A one-
for-one bonus-issue is to be made
by revaluing assets; this will
be followed by a one-for-two
cash-issue at par, thus trebling
present ordinary capital,. An
issue of £220,000 in 7 p.c. prefs.
(redeemable at the co.’s option
in 1966 at 235.) will also be made.
After all the issues are com-
pleted, paid capital will become
£1,420,000 in 4,080,000 ss. ords.
(converted from the present £1
ords,), 220,000 7 p.c. redeemable
£1 prefs., and 180,000 5 p.c. £1
prefs. These 5 p.c. prefs. are to
be converted to 6 p.c.’s. An issue
of another 400,000 ss. ords. is to
be made at par to trustees of
the staff fund later on.
The bonus shares will rank for
dividend from January 1, 1957.
It is expected to pay 10 p.c.
on the increased ord. capital,
compared with the present 15 p.c.
Pref. divs., and 10 p.c. to the
ords., should now call for
£138,200 in a full year, compared
“ While you're here , honey , see if you can get the
lowdown on some of the big-time stuff."
with £60,000 in last year’s dis-
tribution, when profit was
£213,476.
The marked improvement in
the trading results of Pope
Industries over the last few years
has shown the change in pro-
duction-policy, made some time
ago, to have been soundly con-
sidered.
The decision involved drop-
ping the production of many
small articles which, because of
their high labor-content, were
regarded as too vulnerable to
competition from low - cost
foreign manufacturers, in order
to concentrate oil the production
of lawn-mowers and garden-
hose fittings, washing-machines
and electric motors. Then, as a
first step in consolidating its posi-
tion in the appliance field, Pope
introduced two refrigerator
models designed for the more
stable replacement-market.
Actual turnover figures are not
published, but sales have im-
proved manifoldly, notwith-
standing that competition has
grown sharper and that the co.’s
factories at Beverley and Fins-
bury in South Australia are at a
disadvantage of distance with
other manufacturers for some
important markets.
The company reports that it
is proceeding carefully in the
selection of new products and
that its recently completed
appliance-division at Beverley
has been designed to give flexi-
bility of production, a factor
which is expected to be very
useful “in the period of keen
competition which is ahead.”
The sales-organisation has also
been strengthened, and
manufacturing methods are kept
up-to-date.
Last year, after providing for
“expenses, contingencies, income-
tax, etc.,” consolidated net earn-
ings were written at £213,476,
£15,588 above'the 1954 profit-
figure, the improvement being
due largely to further expansion
in the electric-motor and
appliance sections of the
business:
Parent and Subsidiary.
r Dividends N Re-
June, Profit. Pref. ( Ord. , serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
’5l . 50,224 9000 8 p.e. = 19,200 212,961
’52!. 60,102 9000 8 „ „ 19,200 244,863
Tax overprovided, £247 .. 245,110
Intangibles w/off, £23,3*1 .. 221,739
Unexp. additions, £51,530 .. 263,269
>53 . 86,744 9000 10 p.c. = 30,667 310,346
’54!.197,888 9000 15 „ „ 51,000 448,234
Assets revalued, £249,500 .. 697,734
From sundry prov’s, £145,213 842,947
Unexplained addition, £3 .. 842,950
’55..213,476 9000 15 p.c. = 51,000 996,426
The return on paid capital was
also better. After allowing £9OOO
for the 5 p.c. pref. div., the
£213,476 was equal to 60 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 55.5
p.c. in 1954, 22.8 p.c. 1953, 21.2
p.c. 1952 and 20.9 p.c. in 1951.
Maintained at 15 p.c., the
dividend to ordinary share-
holders was thus covered four
times over. Half the distribution
was made from tax-free reserves.
Revaluation of assets added
£249,500 to reserves, to which
was also written-back £145,213
from provisions-made in earlier
years, indicating the conservative
basis on which profits have been
stated.
Good use has been made of the
profits retained in financing
growth. Last term substantial
additions were made to land,
buildings and plant in South
Australia, new warehouse
premises completed in Brisbane,
and an extra £267,260 stocks
carried with the addition of only
£60,163 to the outside debt.
Cash, bonds and other invest-
ments provided £320,221 of the
outlay:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref .. .. £lBO,OOO £lBO,OOO
Ord 340,000 340,000
Reserves .. .. 448,234 996,426
Debenture?, etc... 307,900 320,700
Notes .. .. 200,000 199,000
Overdraft.. .. 67,482
Creditors . . .. 356,361 337,242
Tax provision . . 248,885 215,933
Final divs. . . 38,500 30,000
£2,119,880 £2,686,783
Land, buildings.. 331,278 777,985
Leasehold .. 2,451 47,322
Plant .. .. 334,064 469,964
Shares, etc. .. 271,717 80,791
Stock .. .. 640,232 907,492
Debtors .. .. 408,131 400,517
Cash, etc 132,007 2,712
£2,119,880 £2,686,753
Additional working-capital was
raised this term from an under-
written issue of £150,000 of 7
p.c. unsecured notes which
mature in November, 1963,
although Pope has the right to
redeem the whole amount on any
interest-date after four years.
A private first - mortgage
debenture loan is providing
another £250,000. The present
share - issues will bring in
£660,000, and should stabilise the
financial position.
At 475. at the beginning of this
year, the £1 ords. were unobtain-
able in Adelaide at the buyers’
price of 58s. 6d. last week.


LYSAGHT
SHEEP SELF
FEEDER...
?■*»
Z:,U
L7I
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease
in filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY
Rigid construction with Heavy
Gauge Sheets.
Adjustable Hooks vary opening
for different grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents
blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up
of feed in Troughs.
Head Barrier prevents
strangling.
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for
Towing.
@ Overall Trough length, 16 ft. (8 ft. each side).
PRICE (Assembled or
Prefabricated) at Works:
£42
Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities. FIOA/56
,<» !
gifs
i
&
2D
G
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more^convenlenff
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
94,2484*"— ■■
a
The word
for Brandy
since 1858
vm
SSfir/WSPECJAL HOSPtTi
mmM
TOLLEY’S
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
T5T.46.12
M any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
r-pjqg increase in interest-rates
A on small savings, announced
by the Maoriland Government, is
a belated step in the right direc-
tion-a rather timid, hesitant
step, though it may be unfair to
say so till it is known what, if
anv other direct incentives the
any, otner uireci incentive;* uic
Government intends to offer
small savers.
In its list of the most important
means of combating Maoriland's
orimarv economic problem, in-
primary economic piuuicm, iu
flation, the Monetary Commis-
sion placed “increased savings”
mom piaceu nicicaacu saving
second only to “higher produc-
tion ” Its first suggestion for
non. its uni iuggwu i
increasing private savings was
“higher interest-rates.”
But it also recommended that
the Government should consider
other measures, namely: (a)
dedubtion of savings-bank
interest, up to a fixed maximum,
from income returnable for tax
purposes; (b) a scheme of pre-
miums on savings, on the lines
of that adopted by Sweden.
This scheme was explained as
follows: “Sums up to a maxi-
mum of about £7O a year, which
are deposited during 1955 and
1956 on a specially opened
savings-account, and which
remain on that account till the
end of 1960, will entitle the
holder to receive a savings-
premium of 20 per cent, for 1955
savings and 15 per cent, for 1956
savings, reckoned in each case
on the amount saved, subject to
the proviso that during the year
the saver must have increased
his total bank-balances by not
less than the sum deposited on
savings-account. The premium is
tax-free.”
A month or two t ago Mr.
Watts said hat methods of
making small saving more
attractive other than higher
interest-rates, were being con-
sidered, but when he announced
the increase in rates he made
no mention of these other
methods bevond a reference to
ujcinuus ucyoxiu a reieience io
improving the service given by
the Post Office Savings Bank.
The change in Post Office
rates is as follows:
New Old Rise.
n rsnn o ßate ' oP I®' 1 ®' a
£sol°to £lOOO 3 p.c. ? p.c. 1 p!c!
£lOOl to £5OOO 2i p.c. If p'c. 1 p'cl
The increase, together with
those applying to trustee savings-
banks (now 3 p.c.) and national
savmgs-accounts (now 3? p.c.),
may help to check the recent
serious decline m the rate ot
small savings. But it does seem
that more should be done.
r<nn
Persons with accounts ot £5OO
or more no doubt already realise
the advantages of saving. In
view of prevailing rates in other
sections of the money-market
m the
they were entitled at least to the
increase which they are now to
. n
receive. But the t p.c. increase
in interest on deposits up to
t « t
£5OO is hardly calculated to
attract new savers. What is
wanted, surely, is something
potent enough to convert at least
some people from the hire-
purchase habit of mind to the
investment habit of mind.
.
New Savings-banks?
The trading-banks have lost no
time in following up the
Monetary Commission’s recom-
mendation that the Government
should fully investigate the
recent Australian legislation
authorising the banks to carry on
savings-bank business.
Both the Bank of New South
Wales and A.N.Z. Bank are seek-
ing authority to begin savings-
bank business in Maoriland. If
permission is granted, A.N.Z.
intends to operate at 167 points,
N.S.W. at 118.
The commission said it firmly
believed that there could not be
too many opportunities for
saving, but the Government will
naturally want to consider care-
fully whether more banks would,
in fact, attract more savings, or
whether they would merely divert
savings from the Post Office
Bank Fmance Minister Watts
has stated that it will be some
time before a decision is reached.
interest ana rreis.
Current preference-shares have
nrmea noticeaniy since me
announcement that the maxi-
mum dividend-rate for new issues
is to go up by only f p.c. to 5}
p.c. A greater rise was expected,
The P- c - rate is onl y a
shade above the current market
yield on first-class preference-
shares, so that second-rank com-
panies will have little chance of
raising finance by this means.
It does seem inequitable that
no discrimination is made
between a company with a long
period of successful trading
behind it and one which
has yet to produce its first
annual accounts. Though, in
some circumstances, preference-
shareholders may be granted a
limited right to participate in
ordinary dividends, many in-
vestors would prefer a higher
fixed rate to the possibility of
participation, which in most
cases can be defeated at any
time by a bonus-issue of ordinary
shares.
Turnover in the Government
stockmarket has fallen away
sharply in the last few weeks.
With the income-tax payment
period passed, selling-pressure
has eased, while the price to
which buyers are willing to
advance is limited by the know-
ledge that advance-subscriptions
may be made to the new
national development loan, offer-
ing 4i p.c. for five years and
4f p.c. for 11 years.
Social Credit Theories
Social Credit adherents .have
not taken the Monetary Com-
mission’s flat rejection of their
pet theories very happily. The
leader of the Social Credit
Political League, Wilfrid B.
Owen, came back with this state-
ment: “I am sure the average
citizen will agree that there is a
gap between his income and the
prices of goods and services
which are obviously available
and which he desires.”
If this is the famous “gap”
which the Social Credit people
have talked so much about, they
have wasted a lot of breath trying
to prove that it exists. Who
would deny it? Is Social Credit
seriously offering a material
millennium in which everyone
can afford everything he wants?
Mr. F. P. Walsh, in his presi-
dential address to the Federation
of Labor, made a pertinent
comment when he referred to
“... .the persuasions of Social
Credit and other money-
magicians, who offer us a para-
dise in which, without exerting
any extra productive effort, we
shall, every one of us, have all
the money and all the goods we
could possibly desire.”
It was refreshing to have from
Mr. Walsh a statement strongly
implying what is so plainly true,
but so seldom recognised in
Labor circles: that a higher
standard of living can come only
from “extra productive effort.”
At the same time, however,
Mr. Walsh reported to the
Federation of Labor that the
executive considered “that the
time is now favorable for the
filing of an application for a
general wage-order.” A general
wage-rise would, as Mr. Walsh
well knows, merely give fresh
impetus to the inflation which is
at the root of Maoriland’s
economic troubles. Maybe wiser
counsels have prevailed, for Mr.
Walsh said later that the appli-
cation would not be filed
immediately.
It is unfortunate that the
Government has, at this par-
ticular time, found it necessary to
increase salaries of State
employees by amounts totalling
£4 million a year. The effect will
be an intensification of infla-
tionary pressures which the
Government is struggling to
reduce by means of the credit-
squeeze.
However, it must be admitted
that the increases could hardly
have been longer delayed. It was
common justice that State
salaries, which had been lagging
well behind, should be brought
into line with those outside the
service, and it was imperative
that more adequate margins
should be provided within the
service for recognition of pro-
fessional training, specialised
knowledge and responsibility. It
was almost entirely for these
two reasons that the adjustments
were made.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit•
a
*
f ‘!?
.-at*
y-.^^rt , r,
■**4 i'j ’**..
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
'obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. C. M. Barron, O.B.E.
x Vice-Chairman)
A • E% Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G* B, Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. FQuicker
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT. 101.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Guarantee Corporation
nrHE 31-year-old A.G.C. and its four
subsidiaries —Traders Finance Corp.,
Alliance Finance Corp. (N.Z.) and two
insurance cos., Transport and General
Insurance and Empire Insurance —are the
oldest and one of the largest hire-
purchase finance groups operating
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Handling a wide range of durables, the
group has very strong connections with
distributors of Ford motor-vehicles,
second-best seller in the market, and, by
making insurance a family matter, it has
provided itself with a self-generating
source of both loanable funds and profits.
The rapid post-war expansion of the
economy under exceptionally favorable
conditions, and the quick development of
hire-purchase as part of the credit-
structure, provided the co. with fresh
opportunities of which it has made the
most. And equity earnings have been
boosted by employment of large amounts
of bank-, debenture- and deposit-moneys.
Since 1949 the coAs hire-contracts out-
standing have increased by £22,861,004,
reaching £29,978,957 at June 30 last. The
additional outlay was met mainly by
borrowings from the bank, debenture-
holders and sundry creditors (up
£16,114,375), by additions to share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined, up £4,962,433) and to various pro-
visions, >chiefly for unexpired insurance
risks (up £941,119).
With an extra £4,662,602 (18.4 p.c.)
out on loan the group was able to show
£205,712 (22.8 p.c.) more profits last
term:
' 'Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
6 & 5 p.c. 10.29 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £lO,OOO . . .. 583,188
Share issue expenses, £5098 . . .. 678,040
Unexplained addition, £64,540 .. 632,680
1951.. 383,279 34,000 153,141 196,138 828,718
To staff fund, £3OOO .. t. .. 825,718
Unexplained addition, £94,059 .. 919,844
1952.. 481,247 34,000 153,141 294,106 1,213,950
Unexplained reduction, £13,023 .. 1,200,927
11.76 p.c.
1953.. 767,595 34,000 175,019 558,576 1,759,503
Share premiums, £183,331 .. .. 1,942,834
Share issue expenses, £7601 .. . . 1,935,233
Unexplained addition, £2157 .. 1,937,390
15 p.c.
1954.. 902,384 34,000 289,578 578,806 2,516,196
Share premiums, £175,082 2,691,278
To contingencies provision, £75,000.. 2,616,278
Share issue expenses, £6435 2,609,843
Unexplained addition, £7579 .. 2,617,422
1955.. 1,168,096 34,000 367,626 766,470 3,383,892
The £1,168,096 of profit was written after
allowing £95,886 (up £35,222) for depre-
ciation, etc., and £821,245 (up £87,449)
for taxation. It was enough to pay the
pref. divs. (£34,000) and show a juicy
46.2 p.c. on average ord. capital com-
pared with 45, 49.2, 30 and 23.4 p.c.
back to 1951. That leaves out of the
reckoning special items interlined in the
table. So maintenance of the div. at 15
p.c. was a comfortable matter. Over the
last five years the co. has paid ord.
divs. averaging 12.3 p.c. for equity earn-
ings averaging 38.7 p.c. on capital
employed. On shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) last year’s
profit was 17.1 p.c., so the pref.- and
debenture-moneys are making handsome
contributions to the equity pool.
Last term 700,324 new £1 ords. were
issued at a premium of ss. each, and
£4,693,925 of debenture-money, bearing
interest at from 3i p.c. to 6 p.c. according
to currency, was gathered. The new
funds were used mainly to expand lend-
ing connections and partly to reduce the
overdraft. For similar purposes 933,666
new £1 ords. were offered, one-for-three,
shortly after the close of last accounts.
Reserves will thus benefit by a further
£233,416 of share-premiums, which
makes a 15 p.c. div. worth 12 p.c., and
paid capital will become £4,384,666 in
150,000 6 p.c. and 500,000 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 3,734,666 ords. On that lot
the pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the
ords. will call for £594,200, or only 50.8
p.c. of last term’s net earnings.
Here is the financial structure as
balance-sheet figures show it:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Ist pref.- .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
2nd pref. .. 600,000 600,000 500,000
Ord. .. 1,487,662 2,100,676 2,801,000
Reserves .. 1,639,503 2,509,196 3,383,892
Debentures ~ 4,093,925
Deposits .. 1,382,301 1,409,883 1,690,683
Overdraft . . 8,580,745 13,495,541 11,126,021
Creditors, etc. 856,534 891,668 1,063,079
Unexpired risks* 624,434 1,137,404 1,134,427
Unearned income 1,672,840 2,830,878 3,404,946
Staff fund .. 54,000 71,293 97,945
Tax provision 630,387 764,224 833,191
Final divs. .. 126,387 244,573 227,075
£17,704,793 £26,105,286 £31,100,184
Land, buildings 296,525 384,387 450,374
Furniture, fit-
tings, etc. . . 55,912 56,079 60,896
Shares .. 19,411 25,317 42,344
Loans, debtors,
etc. . . 17,111,120 25,810,355 29,978,957
Cash, bonds,
etc 221,825 323,148 511,344
Suspense a/c .. 62,269
£17,704,793 £26,105,286 £31,106,184
* Insurance cos.’ reserves.
The new debenture-money, together with
the fresh share-capital and share-
premiums already referred to, and sur-
plus earnings, were used mainly to
increase h.-p. loans, etc., by £4,662,602
and to clip £2,369,520 off the overdraft.
The immediate outlook for hire-pur-
chase is for a slower rate of expansion. In
the mot or-vehicle field, the major cos.
vending this form of credit have volun-
tarily agreed to restrict increases in their
outstandings to 10 p.c. of the September,
1955, level, with a maximum term of 30
months. Hitherto many cos. worked on
£5 p.c. down and a 36-month repayment
period. The thing likely to hit motor-
vehicle business hardest is the recent
stinging increase in sales tax from 16.6
p.c. to 30 p.c. on passenger-cars.
Still, the very wide margin between last
term’s net earnings and distributions
places the 15 p.c. div. in no immediate
danger.
At 355. 9d. the f.-p. £1 ords. return
8.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution. The
6 p.c. and 5 p.c. prefs. at 17s. 6d. and
14s. 6d. yield 6.8 p.c. and 6.9 p.c. res-
pectively. Including the new share-issue
of last July, net tangible cover (book-
value) is £53 6s. lid. 6 per cents., £l5 14s.
5 per cents, and 395. 4d. ords.
Bums Philp (South Seas) Co., Ltd.
T\ESPITE depressing market influences
and an unchanged 10 p.c. dividend
(worth 11.1 p.c. in Australian currency),
this Fijian co.’s f.-p. £1 shares advanced
from 455. to 50s. 3d. on the Sydney
Exchange over the last 12 months. The
current return at 50s. 3d. is a modest 4.4
p.c., which is a pretty fair indication of
the investment merits of the scrip based
on net earnings cover for the div. of 1|
times, large reserves, strong finances,
conservative treatment of the figures,
and, above all, a very sound and well-
entrenched business.
Burns Philp owns two-thirds of the
£750,000 of share-capital, which has
remained unchanged ever since the parent
co. passed the South Seas section of its
island business to this subsidiary in 1920.
Meanwhile no bonus-scrip has been
issued, nor has there been any writing-up
of the book-value of assets, all of which,
the board says, appear, at well below
present-day valuations. There was talk
of returning half the capital shortly after
the war, but the picture soon changed,
and the business has moved steadily from
strength to strength. For the 20 years
to 1940 divs. averaged 6.1 p.c., then 7.6
p.c. for the nine years to 1949, followed
by a steady 10 p.c., with widening
margins, to the close of last accounts.
There was then reserves visibly totalling
£1,143,047 to support and assist the
share-capital, and £605,589 of the
accumulation had come from previously
undisclosed sources since 1943.
Though purchase at 50s. 3d. will no
doubt repay the patient investor, the need
to rush in to buy is a matter of opinion.
To ensure a 6 p.c. return, or a bit more,
on his money, the investor would need to
receive a 15 p.c. div. (Fijian currency),
or a one-for-two bonus share-issue and
maintenance of the div. at 10 p.c., either
of which would be more than covered by
last term’s record net earnings. The
problem for the investor is largely one
of guessing when the cautious board will
consider the time ripe for distribution of
largesse.
The immediate outlook suggests that
the Fijian economy might become
steadily more unstable over the
next few years, owing to the down-trend
of prices for island produce, the stub-
bornness of wage and other costs, and
the fact that the British Ministry of
Food contract for purchase of South Seas
copra runs out at the end of 1957—much
will depend upon whether it is renewed
and upon what terms.
Under this contract the price paid for
plantation copra dropped from £S7O per
ton for 1954 to £S6S for 1955, and has
been reduced to £SSB 10s. for 1956.
Prices for cocoa, beans and other island
products have eased, too. For the most
part, however, the co. handles these com-
modities on a commission basis; its own
local merchandising activities continue to
expand. Gross profit from all sources
for the year (£633,890) increased by
£103,053, whether wholly on account of
trade activities, or partly because of the
way the figures are treated in the books,
is not ascertainable from the published
figures. Including depreciation (£96,269,
up £38,073) and an unspecified provision
for taxation, exes. (£507,040) took
£89,340 of the gain, leaving the net
result £13,713 stronger:
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. t — serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950., 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. .893.008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,673 917,581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952. ._ 96,441 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,441 956,435
Unexplained addition, £9563 '.. 965,048
1953. .106,831 10 p.c. = 75,000 31,831 996,879
Unexplained reduction, £ 4866 .. 992,014
1954. .100,924 10 p.c. = 75,000 26,924 1,017,933
Unexplained addition, £11,384 .. 1,029,322
1965. .113,137 10 p.c. = 75,000 38,137 1,067,459
Unexplained addition, £23,738 .. 1,091,197
1956. .126,850 10 p.c. = 76,000 51,850 1,143,047
The £126,850 of profit was the best show-
ing to date, being 16.9 p.c. on capital as
against 15.1, 13.4, 14.2, 12.8 and 13.3
p.c. back to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a moderate 6.7 p.c., which sug-
gests that the profit has been conser-
vatively stated. Ample provision has
been made against stock-depreciation and
for doubtful debts, the chairman says.
Just how well-shod the co. is financially
the next table shows:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. . . 1,017,938 1,067,469 1,143,047
Owing to subsidiary 643,377 688,912 664,942
Creditors, etc. . . 850,020 886,168 1,052,766
Final div. .. 37,500 37,500 37,500
Total . .. £3,298,885 £3,430,039 £3,648,255
Properties, shipping,
etc 251,395 297,088 392,040
Shares subsid. .. 314,960 314,960 314,960
Investments . . 944,425 942,162 941,958
Stocks, etc. .. 1,239,430 1,254,407 1,160,629
Book debts .. 395,148 488,238 608,470
Cash . . .. 153,477 133,189 230,192
Total .. £3,298,835 £3,430,039 £3,648,255
At the end of January last investments
(apart from subsidiaries) and cash alone
were equal to 31s. 3d. per £1 share, and
sundry creditors, etc., could see 335. 7d.
of every £ coming to them in stocks and
book-debts. Obviously the co. has more
money than it can find employment for
in the business at the moment.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
THOSE who were fortunate enough to
be on the ord.-register of this well-
handled and prosperous drapery busi-
ness at April 30 last were doubly
rewarded. To provide part of the funds
needed for current rebuilding operations,
they were offered 117,090 new £1 ords..
one-for-three, at a premium of 20s. each,
payable 20s. application May 31, and 10s.
each at the end of August and November
next. Simultaneously they were handed
175,635 f.-p. £1 bonus-shares, one-for-
two, charged against a revaluation re-
serve of £175,635 created by writing-up
the book-value of freeholds, which are
still conservatively valued in the accounts.
The board expects to maintain the
distribution at 15 p.c., which has been
an annual event for the last dozen years.
So the shareholder who exercised his
rights to both issues will receive dividends
equal to 17 p.c. on the cash-paid portion
(capital plus premium), and, on the basis
of last week’s ex-rights price for the old
shares (50s. 3d.), a capital-gain of over
65 p.c. in the market, if he cared to take
it. The return to the investor at 50s. 3d.
would be a wink under 6 p.c. on a 15
p.c. distribution, which is a satisfactory
yield from scrip of this calibre. Includ-
ing the new issues, net tangible cover
(book-value) is 48s. lid. The rights
recently sold at 9s.
The two issues will lift paid capital to
£643,996, of which £lO,OOO carries a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. On that lot the pref.
div. and 15 p.c. to the ords. will call for
£97,399, or £12,814 less profit than was
claimed last term. When the rebuilding
programme, scheduled for completion
about February, 1957, is out of the way,
the co. will have more much-needed floor-
space available, and turnover should
benefit. The main store, which faces
King- and George-streets, is at one of the
busiest intersections in the city. The
new building is on adjoining properties
(Nos. 78-82) in King-street, and the co.’s
George-street shopping-front will soon
be extended, too, by inclusion of No. 386
(now occupied by Kodak, Ltd.), which
was bought for £lOO,OOO in April, 1953.
Despite erratic seasonal conditions,
curtailment of selling-space and inevitable
dislocation brought about by building
alterations, turnover increased last term.
Gross profit (£884,592) rose by
£30,236. Including provision for taxa-
tion (£60,000, down £5000) and depre-
ciation- (£5OOO, unchanged), exes.
(£774,379) gobbled the gain and £11,809
besides:
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Feb. Profit. Pief. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 70,868 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 26.T59 403,643
1951 . . 78,910 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 25,419 429,062
1952 . . 72,187 8 „ 15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
1953 . . 70,398 8 „ 15 ~ 53,491 16,907 464,666
1954 ..191,330 8 „ 15 ~ 53,491 47,839 512,505
1955 ..122,022 8 „ 15 ~ 53,491 68,531 581,036
Assets revalued, £175,635 .. .. 756,671
1956 ..110,213 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 56,722 813,393
The £110,213 of profit was enbugh to
pay the small pref. div. (£800) and show
31.1 p.c. on ord. capital employed as
against 34.5, 28.6, 18.2, 20.2, 22.2 and
23.9 p.c. back to 1950. On shareholders’
funds (Capital and reserves combined),
the year’s profit was only 9.3 p.c., which
is about average for the trade as a whole.
The size of the reserves (£813,393) is
mainly responsible for the attractive
returns on capital alone.
Balance-sheet figures chiefly reflect the
writing-up already referred to, and pro-
gress with the new building:
1954. 1955. 1966.
Paid capital .. £361,271 £361,271 £361,271
Reserves .. .. 512,505 581,037 813,395
Overdraft, etc. . . 87,450 55,772 45,077
Sundry creditors.. 191,539 191,921 159,568
Tax reserve .. 167,291 185,030 174,017
Final div. .. 35,527 35,527 35,527
£1,355,583 £1,410,558 £1,588,855
Freeholds, plant .. 596,477 637,769 915,668
Stocks .. .. 302,511 304,934 286,843
Shares subsid. .. 90,903 90,903 90,903
Shares, etc. .. 15,797 19,188 19,388
Debtors .. . . 212,533 196,184 163,220
Cash, etc. .. 137,362 161,590 112,838
£1,355,583 £1,410,558 £1,588,855
Of the year’s net additions of £232,358


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettiug Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
HUNT BROS. (SECURITIES) LIMITED
LISTED ON THE . SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE.
can
earn
88883$
o
PER ANNUM
(on 2 years
term
YOUR DEPOSIT CAN BE WITHDRAWN ON
m REQUEST AFTER THREE MONTHS. m
(SECURITIES)
m
i—. , 4
LIMITED
ONE OF THE HUNT BROS. GROUP OF COMPANIES
invite Term Deposits to cover hire-purchase requirements arising
from continued expansion of Hunt Bros. (Motors) Pty. Ltd.,
Hurstville, and Hunt Bros. (Sydney) Motors Pty. Ltd., Parramatta,
who hold direct franchises for the complete range of
FORD VEHICLES.
This is an investment opportunity which can be viewed with every
confidence. It is backed by an organisation of the highest financial
stability.
INTEREST RATES
7 % per annum for 24 months
6'/ 2 % " " "18
6 % 12 "
41/2% 9
41/4% 6
4 % 3
Application forms and full details
available now from Secretary, Hunt
Bros. (Securities) Limited, Crofts
Avenue, Hurstville. Phone LU2074.
Application may be made through
any Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY
Deposits refunded, after 3 months if desired.
HUNT BROS. (SECURITIES) LIMITED
Crofts Avenue, Hurstville. Phone LU2074.
Bankers:
Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
Auditors:
Harrison, Knox & Leslie,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
literature:
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
HuUt entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. rtf. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. » Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
in the
‘
Future
m
i I I
\
9
“Keep the wheels turning” is a sound slogan
for any country in these modern times, and I believe
it is particularly apt for Australia now.
We are expanding industrially as well as agri-
culturally, and the quality and quickness of the
machines we employ are going to determine the
level of our whole national efficiency.
I was reminded of this recently when I saw
the industrial development that has taken place
at Dandenong, Victoria. Dandenong is an
impressive addition to Melbourne’s already
considerable concentration in manufacture; and it
is indicative of the industrial growth that is being
recorded in other parts of Australia.
It used to be feared that mechanisation would
cause unemployment. But experience has shown
that it has had, in general, an entirely opposite
effect. Where modem machines have been installed
and capably ran, production has increased. In
addition to the extra employment that this created
wealth begets, there is the extensive provision of
work in the machine-making industries themselves.
The benefits of mechanisation apply also—
perhaps relatively more in Australia than elsewhere
—to rural industry.
In a survey of Australia and New Zealand a
few months ago, Dr. H. L. Richardson, an eminent
agricultural chemist, complimented both countries
on their high output per man engaged in agriculture.
This he attributed partly to the increasing use of
mechanisation.
Pleasing as the record is, I think most
Australians will agree that much more remains to
be done in mechanising our industries.
We’ve to lower costs of production so that our
markets abroad may be widened and we ourselves
may be provided with cheaper living. I believe we
will be closer to that goal when more machines,
and progressively better machines, are put into
Australian hands.
*
All over the world the wheels are turning. And
our task is to match them in .pace and power.
to reserves and £277,909 to free-
holds and plant, £175,635 was
on account of the freehold
revaluation in each case. Since
the co. is trading largely within
its own resources, it is virtually
untroubled by the credit-squeeze.
Excepting millinery and hosiery,
retail turnovers are currently
running ahead of the level of
a year ago.
Union Trustee Co.
✓ANE of Australia’s largest
corporate trustees, the Union
operates in the three Eastern
States, where it has strong con-
nections in pastoral circles. Apart
from returns on its own funds
(capital and reserves), which are
a protection for clients as well
as a source of income for share-
holders, net earnings depend
mainly upon the relative levels
of charges, costs and the volume
of trust business.
Expanding business more than
rook care of moderately growing
costs pre-war. After the war
costs won the race, due to infla-
tion of wage-rates. The co.’s
profits came down from an
average of £13,098 for the six
years to 1940 to £10,447 for the
next six years, and to £9527 for
the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1953. Indeed, for the
two years to 1953, the trustee
section of the business was
handled at less than cost. About
three years ago the scale of com-
mission charges, which had
remained substantially unchanged
for well over half a century, was
slightly increased. But the new
scale, like the old one,, is static,
thus leaving net earnings still
exposed to the danger of being
hamstrung by creeping inflation.
After a two-years’ spurt, net
earnings began to edge downward
again last term:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. t Dividends serves, serves.
£> £,£■£>
’51.-11,951 7-J p.C. =5 10,313 1,638 93,190
’52.. 7,484 6 „ „ 8,250 92,424
’53.. 7,468 6 „ „ 8,250 91,642
’54.. 10,048 7 „ „ 9,625 418 92,060
’55..14,226 8 „ ~11,000 3,226 95,286
’56.. 18,472 8 „ ~11,000 2,472 97,758
The £13,472 (down £754) of profit
was 9.8 p.c. on the £137,500 of
paid capital, compared with 10.3,
7.3, 5.4, 8.7 and 9.6 p.c. back to
1951. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
and it is difficult to say when
better might be expected. On
capital and reserves combined,
the year’s profit was no more
than 5.7 p.c., which suggests that
the trustee section is even now
little more than breaking even.
'The business keeps on growing,
and is likely to continue to
do so, because of the expanding
population and the increasing
recognition of the advantages of
the corporate over the private
trustee:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1950.. £196,568 £183,840 93.2
1953.. 281,965 274,497 97.3
1954.. 291,176 281,138 96.6
1956.. 308,328 294,102 95.4
1956.. 320,532 307,060 95.8
Last term exes, (up £12,959)
gobbled the growth in commis-
sions, etc. (up £12,204), and £754
besides, due to rising wage-rates.
From the investor’s point of
view, the attractiveness of the
scrip depends largely upon how
soon wage and other costs, which
are beyond the board’s control
,can be stabilised. Meanwhile, the
co., and others like it, continue
to render a wide range oi
essential and complex services
which call for highly specialised
knowledge and experience, at
very moderate charges.
At February 29 last the co.’s
own funds, together with pro-
vision for taxation, etc., were
represented by freeholds
£173,575, debtors’ balances £BO4,
and cash, bonds, etc., £91,432.
The £2 10s. shares paid to
275. 6d. each—of the difference
£1 is a reserve liability callable
only if needed on liquidation—
are priced at 28s. Bd. in the
market (325. a year ago) to return
7.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 475.
Great Boulder Prop.
The co. (paid capital
£5250,000) has been operatiiig
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.) for the last 60-odd years,
and the mine still contiqpes to
open up attractively at depth,
3000 ft. to 4000 ft.
To help finance development
of the Eastern lode at its
southern end, deepen the Hamil-
ton shaft to 3250 ft. and sink a
new internal shaft from 3100 ft.
to 4000 ft. in the Edwards area
—the old Edwards shaft has
become a bit of a bottleneck —
the board proposes to offer those
on the register at an early date
1,000,000 new 2s. shares (2s. 6d.
Aust.) at a premium of 6s.
(7s. 6d. Aust.) each. The issue
will bring in £A500,000, of
which £A 125,000 will be capital
and £A375,000 share-premiums.
It will raise paid capital to
£5350,000 in 2s. shares, on which
the board says the dividend is
not likely to fall below Is. 3d.
(Aust.) per share, or 50 p.c.,
which has been the rate paid for
the last two years.
For the year to December 31
last the co. treated 473,288 tons
of 5.39dwt. ore for 115,58 loz.
fine gold, which yielded a profit
of £A216,396, equal to Is. 3d.
per share on the increased capi-
tal. Working costs were 645. sd.
per ton. The new development-
work is expected to open up “a
large tonnage” of fresh payable-
ore. Since 1948 the co. has spent
about £ABOO,OOO, mostly out of
earnings, on modernising plant
and increasing its capacity and
efficiency. Measured ore-reserves
at December 31 last were put at
2,068,400 tons, averaging
5.42dwt.
On Australian ’Changes the
shares recently sold at 14s. 9d.,
thus giving the rights a theoreti-
cal value of 13s. 6d.
✓
Rio Tinto (Aust.) Pty., an
offshoot of the big London-
controlled Rio Tinto, Ltd., has
informed Petroleum Drilling
Corp. that it intends to go ahead
with the Mary Kathleen
uranium-project without qualifi-
cations. In November, 1954,
A.O.E. and Petroleum Drilling
Corp. jointly agreed to erect a
treatment-plant on the leases in
question, but greatly under-
estimated the cost. So, about
five months later, Rio Tinto was
invited in and obtained control
of the Mary Kathleen venture.
It was agreed Petroleum Drilling
should be compensated for can-
cellation of its contractual rights
if Rio Tinto decided to erect its
own treatment-plant. The sum
involved is believed to be
£315,000, payable July 15, 1956.
This is equal to 15s. 2d. for each
of Petroleum Drilling’s 414,000
issued 10s. shares paid to 4s.


Women’s Lette rs
SYDNEY
Chief of Air Staff Air-Marshal Sir
John McCauley and Lady McCauley flew
from Melbourne for the wedding of their
son Tony to Margaret Slattery at St.
Mary’s Cathedral on Saturday. The
bride, who is the younger daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. M. J. Slattery, of Woollahra,
carried the magnolia color of her
Brussels-lace dress through to her finger-
tip tulle veil (held by a tiny tiara of
French pearls) and her bouquet of roses.
The bridesmaids, Jeanette Hardie and
Midge McAuliffe, carried cream-colored
carnations to contrast with their short
dresses of delustred-satin in a soft sage-
green color. The ’groom was attended by
Dr. Geoffrey Gibson and Dr. James
Roche. Reception was held at the home
of the bride’s parents at Woollahra.
☆ ☆ h-
The opening night of “Can-Can” at the
Empire brought out the “Full House”
sign ; it was, though, anything but a full-
dress occasion. A ballerina with a fur stole
for those who are feeling gala and a nice
winter-coat with a scarf for those who
are not are becoming the fashion for
first-nights. Before very long anyone
who wears a long dress will be quite
remarkable.
Noted Roger Livesey and Ursula
Jeans in the audience on Saturday, he in
a dark-red dinner-jacket, she in a plum
delustred-satin. Afterwards they went
on to a party at Doris Fitton’s home at
North Sydney, given for the cast of
“Twelfth Night.”
There is a really lovely setting in
“Can-Can,” supposed to be on a roof-
top in Paris looking out over the whole
panorama of the city at night, jewelled
by a thousand (or so it seemed) lights.
As the scene progresses the darkness
lightens and the lights gradually dim as
the dawn first faintly flushes the sky,
then deepens, then disappears with the
last of the lights, and the morning floods
the scene. It was very effectively done.
# V V
The latest hair-style, according to the
members of the Haute Coiffure
who held their first Australian
meeting at the salon of Rene Henri last
week, is the Cascade. “Think of water
flowing,” said Mr. Henri; “down over
the forehead, smoothly back from the
ears, cascading down the back of the
head to a kissable neckline. That is the
new line.” It is designed to supersede the
Italian-boy cut (now apparently quite
outmoded abroad, though many of us
have only just got used to it), the horse’s
tail, the poodle-cut, the chignon and the
French bun, which is a tiny little roll at
the back of the head and is most popular
with mannequins and others who are
trying to let their hair grow.
v & v
A bouquet to Mrs. C. G. (Dot) Ball
for her enterprise and energy in the work
she does for aspiring young singers,
actors, dancers, etc., in this city. Mrs.
Ball is the brains behind the Metropolitan
Operetta Society’s production of “New
Moon,” which has just completed a suc-
cessful, though necessarily short, season
at the Royal. She’s the mother of three
children (two of school age) and is a
qualified accountant who tends to the
accountancy .side of her husband’s busi-
ness. During her six-years’ presidency
of the Metropolitan, that non-profit-
making society has presented three
musical-comedies at leading city theatres.
On Saturday night the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, was present at “The New
Moon,” accompanied by the president of
the War Widows’ Guild, Mrs. G. A.
Vasey.
» # #
A good attendance, a lot of chatter,
some lively hats and a film about Norway
were the chief ingredients for the success-
ful luncheon-party arranged by Mrs. F.
Groth and her committee at the Royal
Empire Rooms to raise funds for the
United Nations office in Sydney. Mrs.
Klingenberg, wife of the Consul-General
for Norway (who gave the commentary
on the film), wore one of the hats—a
large-crowned, deep-brimmed straw-
berry melusine. Mrs. Cedric Symonds
also drew the eye with a cute little model
by Jacques Fath of cream, red and blue
straw perched on the front of the head
like a French cockade.
Mrs. A. A. Alam brought as her guest
an interesting young Lebanese journalist,
Miss Therese Khattar, who is in Australia
studying wool-manufacture. Mrs. Micu-
licic-Rodd, just recently back after 18
months abroad, spoke of the engagement
of her son Henry Bosch (who is doing
a post-graduate study in economics at
Geneva) to Daphne Markham-David, of
London. Those present included Mrs. H.
Mueller, Mrs. A. Redlar, Mrs. Alan
Dyce, Mrs. F. Marina, Mrs. Menozzi,
Mrs. Barbara Bennett, Mrs. E. Drescher
and her daughter Mrs. John Keenan,
Mrs. Basclain, Mrs. Alex Morgan.
# V Q
A new committee of Sydney women
working for a good cause is the Top Hat
Group. Object: to raise money for the
Rehabilitation Appeal of Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital. There are over 30
women in the group, including Mrs. J.
Felix-Boofh, Mrs. E. J. Chambers, Mrs.
P. J. Davis and Mrs. R. P. G. McCallum.
The appeal aims at raising £lOO,OOO for
a centre which will help disabled people
to return to a useful and happy life, and
will also train staff for centres at other
hospitals,
The Naughty Nineties Committee of
1956 will also work for this appeal. Mrs.
W. J. Smith, one of Sydney’s most suc-
cessful and energetic organisers, will be
president, and among her helpers will be
Mrs. Vivian Bath, Mrs. Loyd Coleman,
Mrs. K. Galbraith, Mrs. Gordon John-
ston, Mrs. Michael King, Mrs. I. A,
Listwan, Mrs. M. Samuels and Mrs. Row-
land Smith.
☆ ☆ ☆
Isn’t the term “delustred satin” odd?
The great beauty of satin in the past
used to be its lustre. Now we go to great
trouble to take the sheen off and pay
more for it in consequence. It probably
won’t be long before we have desparkled
diamonds and delustred pearls.
Dimity George, daughter of Captain
and Mrs. Frank George, of Double Bay,
recently returned with her parents and
sister Diane from a trip abroad. Dimity,
who is fond of tennis, swimming and ail
kinds of sport, intends taking up the
study of dentistry.
A Russian dinner, prepared by ladies
of the Russian Orthodox Church, has
been arranged by the Y.W.C.A. for
Thursday, May 17, at 6.30 p.m. It’s to
be followed by a programme on the cul-
ture R uss i a > with music and dancing.
Tickets for the dinner are limited to 100,
hut the programme, which begins at 7.30,
he open to many more. The
N.S.W.-Minister for Labor and Industry,
the Hon. J. J. Maloney, will be the
speaker.
* w
The “Shore” Old Boys’ Dance will be
held at the Trocadero on Friday, May 25.
Working for its success, under the leader-
ship of Mrs. C. S. Tiley, wife of the
Acting Headmaster, are Mrs. Geoffrey
Coghlan, Mrs. David Playfair, Mrs.
Neville Carey, Mrs. T. T. Halstead, Mrs.
John Ferris, Mrs. V. L. McCausland,
Mrs. O. Devenish Meares, Mrs. Richard
Tiley, with Judy Millard, Barbara Con-
nell, Charmian Kaleski, Annette Prim-
rose, Margot Anderson, Diane Ball and
Jennifer Eldershaw.
V V V
Useful notes on etiquette given by the
butler who is standing as Tory candidate
for local elections in England: “When
canvassing, never call during an interest-
ing TV-programme. Never call at meal-
times. This is just as bad manners as
ringing a door-bell twice.”
# V V
About 300 university students —from
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart and Armidale —will take part in
the Inter-’Varsity Music Festival to be
held in N.S.W. from May 24 to June 1.
They will go into camp at Yarramundi,
near Richmond, on May 25, and will
there rehearse items for their grand con-
cert, to be held at Sydney Town Hall
on Monday, May 28, at 8 p.m. The main
item at the concert will be Bach’s “Sing
Ye to the Lord,” by the combined choirs
of all universities, conducted by Mr. G.
Faunce Allman. Organising the festival
are Beehan McCullagh, Elizabeth Lewis
and Maijorie Horton, who are working
with an enthusiastic committee.
MELBOURNE
More than 600 members were there to
give a glad welcome to Lieut.-General
James Doolittle and Mrs. Doolittle at. the
Coral Sea reception and luncheon in the
Royale Ballroom, arranged by the Aus-
tralian-American Association. The
guests-of-honor were met by the associa-
tion’s president, Sir John Latham, and
Lady Latham, vice-president Wesley
Ince and Mrs. Ince, and executive-officer
P. M. Hamilton and Mrs. Hamilton. Sir
John, always a witty speaker, had dis-
covered that General Doolittle was an
honorary LL.D., so he introduced him
to the guests as Dr. Doolittle. Mrs.
Doolittle wore an anthracite-grey suit
with a tiny ruby-red velour. At the
official table were the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte, Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring
and Lady Herring, the Lady Mayoress
(Lady Selleck), and U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner.
# V #
Climax to Coral Sea Week was the
dinner-ball at the Palais de Danse, St.
Kilda, organised by the women’s group
of the Australian-American Association.
Theme for the decorations was a tropical
isle, artistically expressed in a lighted
backdrop, which depicted a calm blue sea
and palmtrees overhanging a sandy beach.
On each side of the backdrop were other
palmtrees, on which rested huge, glitter-
ing butterflies. Around the ballroom,
high up on the pillars, were hundreds
more butterflies, all in various colors and
all scintillating with multicolored sequins.
Smaller butterflies perched on driftwood
on every table.
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended, with U.S. Ambassador Douglas
Moffat and Mrs. Moffat, and the Coral
Sea Week guest-of-honor, Lieut.-General
James Doolittle, and Mrs. Doolittle. Lady
Brooks wore a charming gown of pearl-
tinted satin, which had a very full,
stiffened skirt. With it she wore a white
Arctic-fox stole. Mrs. Doolittle’s gown
of bronze-gold lame had the back-apron
effect outlined in black velvet. Mrs.
Douglas Moffat wore satins in pale-beigei
tonings.
On arrival, the official guests were met
by the president of the A.-A.A., Sir John
Latham, and Lady Latham, and the presi-
dent of the women’s group, Mrs. R. G.
Casey (her gown of off-white silk printed
in hydrangeas in pastel shades). In the
official party were the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte (she wearing an attractive white
organza gown with tiny black lace motifs
scattered over the full skirt), Lord Mayor
Sir Frank Selleck and Lady Selleck,
American Consul-General Gerald Warner
and Mrs. Warner, Consul Joseph
Weidenmayer and his wife, chiefs of the
three Services and their wives, and the
U.S. Navy, Army and Air Force Attaches.
Among the many lovely dresses noted
were Mrs. Ronald Nott’s white satin,
with the skirt draped to one hip and a
front panel lavishly embroidered with
pearl and crystal; Mrs. P. Nicholas’s
short, bouffant frock of powder-blue
iridescent-lace, in which pleated ruffles
of matching tulle extended at intervals
from the hem of the skirt almost to the
hipline ; and Mrs. J. Best’s white Chan-
tilly-laces, the crinoline skirt of which
carried trails of pink and red rosebuds
and green foliage cascading down one
side of the skirt. Proceeds from the
dinner-ball will go to the Brotherhood of
St. Laurence and the association’s
Patriotic Fund.
Although possessing a lovely voice,
which was trained at the Conservatorium,
Mrs. Bernard Evans is more interested in
the voices of others —she is a member of
the National Theatre women’s committee,
and recently was on the committee which
organised the masked-ball at the St.
Kilda Palais de Danse for the theatres
funds. Married to a well-known archi-
tect who is also a city councillor, Mrs.
Evans has a very busy social life. Her
son Ronald and daughter Mary are
married; daughter Margot is still at
school. Gardening is Mrs. Evans’s relaxa-
tion. Photo by John Warlow.
A big audience welcomed back the
Borovansky Ballet at Her Majesty’s
Theatre. When she entered the theatre
actress Virginia Paris received an ovation.
She wore a sweeping gown of scarlet
velvet. Lady McConnan chose a grey-
and-pink-shot taffeta gown, the bodice
highlighted with upstanding, finely-
pleated frills. Mrs. Eccles McKay
covered her gown of midnight-blue
sequin-trimmed satin with a white Arctic-
fox cape-stole. Lady Selleck wore with
her short, full-skirted taffeta evening-
frock a multistriped georgette scarf. Mrs.
L. R. Buxton wore a theatre-cap of
black rouleaux velvet, with her short,
strapless frock of dark-green taffeta.
Pauline Whalley covered her frosted-
pink organdie frock with a full-length
pale-pink velvet coat. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll added to her short cream-satin
evening-gown a ruby-red pearl-
embroidered coat. Mrs. Eric Rogers
had her small daughter Paulette with her,
and Mrs. Boris Koski was accompanied
by her daughter Claudette. Mrs. Max
Ham wore a short, full-skirted frock of
silver lame.
☆ ☆ ☆
In keeping with its title, the High
Society Ball at the Royale Ballroom,
organised by the St. Vincent’s Hospital
Younger Set, had decorations which
included tiny, glittering gold-buckets hold-
ing champagne-bottles set on every table,
and with tophats, canes and white gloves
on the pillars around the ballroom. More
than 900 attended, a'nd highlight of the
evening’s fun was the choosing of “Miss
High Society.” Mrs. Len Buxton, presi-
dent of the hospital’s combined auxiliaries,
was the judge. She, with her husband
and the hospital’s assistant medical-
superintendent, Dr. Barry Smithurst, Mrs.
Norman Figgins (a founder of the
younger set) and former president Peter
Treymayne, were received by younger-set
president Judy Roberts and vice-president
Joy Allen.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal Empire Society’s Snow Ball
will be held on May 24 at No. 9 Darling-
street. Enthusiastic young people are
working hard for the success of this ball;
ticket-secretaries are Felicity Harber
(Win. 3377), Jan Cecil (UL4764) and
Kevin Truscott (BM1381).


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
Divorce Notices
TO VICTOR CARTWRIGHT . late of 23
Riversdale Road West Cross Swansea in
the County of Glamorgan.—A Petition
for Divorce has been filed against yon
Upon an application by letter to the
District Registrar District Registry of the
High Court of Justice, Government Build-
ings, Westgate Street Cardiff in the
County of Glamorgan England a copy of
the Petition will be sent. If within 5V
days hereafter no application has been
made nor appearance entered the Court
may hear the Petition and pronounce
judgment It is requested that attention
may be drawn to this Notice by anyone
knowing the whereabouts of the person
to whom it is addressed.—ll. A.
DREW ELLYN JONES, District Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL ALFRED PALMER late o*
Walcha.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
RACHAEL PALMER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1359 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th day
of July 1950 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO RONALD CHARLTON of Flat 2
Seven Ways 87 Oakley Road North Bondi.
—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA MARY
CHARLTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1392 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th day of July
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BERNE MURRAY &
TOUT, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JAMES BEATTIE late of
42 Russell Street New Lambton and MRS.
BELL ANDREWS.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDITH RHYMES BEATTIE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 295 of 1956
against you EDWARD JAMES BEATTIE
on the ground of adultery with you BELL
ANDREWS If you EDWARD JAMES
BEATTIE wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
4th July 1956 and you BELL ANDREWS
may apply for leave to intervene before
the 4th July 1956 and either of you may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Assembly Hall, • 2 York Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
.offers
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates of annual interest rising from 3J%
for 3 months to 7% for 5 years and over.
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6£% com-
pounded on yearly rests with currencies
of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus available at
all branches of Commonwealth Trading
Bank of Australia, Members of the Stock
Exchange and Offices of the Company.
General Credits Ltd. is sponsor-
ed by the Automobile Fire and
General Insurance Company of
Australia Limited. This is not
a Prospectus and does not con-
stitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock men-
tioned herein.
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G.
(Chairman), J, M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
3814
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Borovansky Ballet
The Borovansky ballet’s fourth
season at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, opened brilliantly with
“Les Sylphides,” and the grace
and purity of line of Chopin’s
music was so perfectly reflected
in the dancing of Kathleen
Gorham and Royes Fernandez
and the corps de ballet that the
audience broke in with applause
if the wavy action paused even
for a second.
With the next item it was
entirely different. In his new
version of “L’Apres-midi d’un
Faune” Paul Grinwis seems to be
trying to get closer to the con-
temporary scene, but his quiver-
ings and jerks and strange
angular posturings didn’t seem
related to Debussy’s languorous,
sleepy, voluptuous music. And
what were the two nymphs doing
expressing their frolicksomeness
in a series of frozen, ugly poses?
If present commentator’s
* memory has it right, David
Lichine introduced “Fran-
cesca da Rimini” to Her
Majesty’s in 1938 as an . extra-
ordinarily savage, passionate and
vivid account of the story of the
ill-starred lovers. Except in the
final horrific shambles anc
Jocelyn Vollmar’s wild dancing,
which beautifully expressed her
emotional disorder, this was all
missing in the present version.
It was all bits and pieces, and as
unrelated as the colors and bits
and pieces of William Constable’s
Italian Renaissance architecture.
“Graduation Ball” was given
its usual elegant performance,
and Vassilie Trunoff, Joan
Potter and Audrey Nicholls have
never danced better.
* * *
Kurt Woess
Kurt Woess, Melbourne’s new
conductor, has warmed-up to his
orchestra and his orchestra has
warmed-up to him.
At the second subscription-
concert at the Town Hall the
temperature started to rise with
the playing of the “Egmont”
Overture —a majestic perform-
ance—and it continued to mount
through the concerto No. 3 in
C Minor, Op. 37, which brought
Paul Badura-Skoda to the piano
in a high mood of exaltation. At
times his playing seemed inspired,
and the whole was played with
an easy air of understanding,
both of the orchestra and the
piano. There was a marvellous
moment at the beginning of the
rondo.
'The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra has never been more
enthusiastic than it was in the
Fourth Symphony, the one in
which Beethoven piled one lovely
melody on top of another. They
seemed to be as much a part of
the conductor as his hands. The
strings, were prominent, but not
obtrusive. The last movement
couldn’t have been done better.
<** *
Pascal Quartet
Each of the three works
selected by the four French
string-players at the second of
their Sydney concerts has a move-
ment famous in chamber-music
literature.
The andante cantabile of
Haydn’s String Quartet in F
Major, Op. 3 No. 5, is a melody
of exceptional sweetness, and the
tone given it by leader and first-
fiddle Jacques Dumont on muted
strings against the pizzicato back-
ground supplied by the other
three instruments was of great
beauty. The work’s genial
humor, classical orderliness and
sinewy strength, and its saltant
scherzando, were all, brought out
with loving care as to detail.
The highlight of Schubert’s A
Minor Quartet, Op. 29, was the
andante, a flood of tender
lyricism, which owes much to
the entr’acte music from the com-
poser’s own “Rosamunde.” Here
the dark tones of the lower
strings gave a touch of drama
to the music. In the minuet the
tones were most delicately
woven.
Stephen Stratton said of
Mendelssohn and his scherzos:
“He brought the fairies with
him everywhere.” He conjured
them up gracefully in the “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” music,
and hardly less so in the cele-
brated canzonetta of his Quartet
in E Flat Major, Op. 12. The
semiquaver-runs in the middle-
section of this movement leaped
lightly and daintily from one
instrument to another, and the
alternating moods of serenity
and agitation which invest the
slow movement were lucidly
stated.
*:♦ * *
Clara Skriptschenko
This young Ukrainian-born
pianist has feeling for the massive
works, and it is geared to tech-
nical equipment capable of
standing up to rigorous tests.
One of those she set herself
at the first of her three Sydney
Con. recitals was the Busoni
transcription of the Bach
Chaconne in D Minor. This
monumental structure, with its
great chords in the bass and the
subsequent intricate variations
over the ground-bass, was
developed dynamically and given
a firm, even tone.
The opening of Beethoven’s
“Appassionata” Sonata was
phrased to emphasise the im-
pression of mystery and fore-
boding, and there was no mis-
taking the urgency and the storm-
and-stress exhortations which
followed the solemn exordium.
The closing pages of the work
were whirled away in a willy-
willy of sound, yet with clarity
never impaired.
Sandwiched between these
giants was a bracket of Scarlatti
miniatures the charming
“Pastorale” and “Capriccio”
and the exuberant A Major
Sonata —played with delicacy,
accuracy and crispness.
Balakirev’s “Islamey,” coming
at the end of an exacting and
exhausting programme, found
the pianist rather short of a
gallop to wring the maximum of
vigor out of the swirling technical
snags which dot this Oriental
fantasy. It remained a fairly
creditable performance.
Artbursts
Society of Artists
Mild, mixed and muddled, the
autumn show of the N. S. Wales
Society of Artists at David
Jones’, Sydney, makes one
wonder whether these interim
exhibitions, which other societies
also hold from time to time, are
really advisable.
Members and “invitees” con-
tribute comparatively small
paintings with the entirely laud-
able aim of selling them: but
the one thing that most makes
for sales the excitement
aroused by major works of art,
or at least the best the artists
can do—is usually lacking. The
shows tend to be merely displays
of second-bests.
Still, there are a number of
very pleasant paintings: notably
Maud Sherwood’s “Primroses,”
which, its* pale yellows drama-
tised by her favorite blues and
greens and purples, has a quiet
radiance not equalled by the
other flowerpieces on view ; also
Arthur Murch’s two figures-on-
the-beach studies, particularly
“Afternoon.”
A couple of unpretentious but
likeable small landscapes by
Norman Carter are among other
pictures that catch the eye ; as
do an unusual “Interior with
Lamp,” by George Duncan,
landscapes by Wakelin, Santry
and George Lawrence, Margaret
Preston’s “Native Flowers” and,
for its liveliness, Carl Plate’s
“Rider Leaves a Horse.”
•v* *> $
Pentagon Group
The Pentagon Group is
currently showing its wares at
the Athenaeum Gallery in Mel-
bourne, bdt what its members
have in common is a matter for
speculation. If it is a desire to
attain to Nature’s accent, then
June Stephenson hasn’t got it, or
possibly she has given up the
job as hopeless and escaped into
flat pattern. Beverley Stevens
has it in some measure, and her
“Cape Schanck” has captured
some of the weirdness and
sombreness of that jagged coast-
line, though she has slipped
sadly in “Grace,” a nude study
in which everything looks like
cloth except the cloth.
Kathleen Barnes has “The
Howqua Bridge,” an interesting
picture, and not badly painted,
either. The bridge will never Ije
seen again, being permanently
under water with the extension
of the Eildon weir; Miss
Barnes’s picture is a good
souvenir, catching the atmos-
phere and color of the red road,
blue hills and golden willows.
Beatrice Ritchie has been
abroad and painted Spain and
Venice as stiffly as she has
painted “Autumn, Healesville.”
* * *
Michael Shannon, back from
Europe, is hanging the results
of his visit at the Peter Bray
Gallery in Melbourne. He has
painted London, Paris, Port Said,
Bombay and Colombo, and has
seen those places exactly as he
saw Melbourne —that is to say,
in terms of a fashion. This
artistic fashion—lines arbitrarily
applied, and never where they
might apply in nature —has
followed him like his shadow,
and apparently is as hard to
shake-off.
❖ *
lan Fairweather, up for
inspection in Melbourne, was
formerly noted for somewhat
elusive landscapes which, how-
ever, had something individual
about them. He now seems to
have joined the ranks of the
abstractionists so fashionable at
the moment, and his wiggles and
waggles are little different from
a million others.
Talkies
“Madame Butterfly” (Sydney
Savoy): In this richly dressed
and artistically set screen-version
of Puccini’s opera Japanese fill
all roles except those of
Pinkerton, his American wife
and the Consul Sharpless. And
quite impressive they are, headed
by Kaoru Yachigusa as a demure
and lovely Cho Cho San. Anna
Maria Canali sings the role, and
her “One Fine Day” is the high-
light in excellent all-round sing-
ing. Guiseppe Campora con-
tributes notably in the solos
allotted the heartless lieutenant
and in the glorious love-music
which closes Act I in the stage-
presentation.
The screen-play follows the
opera closely, except for a pre-
lude with spoken commentary,
which is redundant and which
seems to be there for the sole'
purpose of showing-off some
dainty Geisha girls in Nagasaki.
“The Sea Chase” (Sydney
Plaza): On the eve of World
War II the German tramp
Ergenstrasse sneaks out of
Sydney Harbor under cover of
a pea-soup fog. The mysterious
passenger smuggled on board at
the last minute by the Nazi
Consul-General turns out to be
Lana Turner, whose acting as a
secret-agent consists mainly of
disporting herself in exotic
clothes. Apart from this redund-
ant role the doings might have
been tolerable—they are not
without excitement, and John
Wayne isn’t at all bad as the
bleak-eyed he-man skipper with
a human touch to him.


THE SHINING KNIGHT
By ERIC IRVIN
WHEN Gordon and his
wife entered the huge,
drab lounge of the
Magnapole Hotel it
was empty —except for the
inevitable Neville. .
“Suffering hellcats!” he
greeted their entry. “We’re like
a couple of ants in a forty-acre
paddock, aren’t we?”
“Three,” Monica corrected
him, with an understanding
smile at her husband. She sat
in the chair, proffered by Neville.
Gordon nodded curtly to him.
-So their young guest or, to
give him his correct title,
appendage was now going to
do his best to ignore the
presence of that thing called a
husband, he thought to himself.
As far as Neville Barton was
concerned, there were apparently
only himself and Monica Wilson
in a world grown suddenly rich
with possibilities.
For perhaps the hundredth
time since Neville had somehow
attached himself three days ago,
Gordon studied the young man.
Big, insensitive, loud-mouthed—
that was the only possible
immediate summing-up. And
yet, to be quite fair, there was
still something likeable about
him ; still something which said
that perhaps the original
summing-up didn’t take all the
evidence into consideration.
Behind that carefully-erected
facade of granite and glitter
there sheltered a defenceless and
bewildered young man, thrown
on the world while still too
young, and still doing his
damnedest to find out what it
was all about.
Gordon scratched his head.
If only Monica wouldn’t go out
of her way to become
involved . . .
He was a man trying his best
not to feel soured, and making
a hash of it. For some reason
he kept thinking of a party they
had attended the year before in
Sydney, when their hostess’s
opening gambit had been: “I
do think country people mar-
vellously brave, the way they go
among all those cattle and sheep.
Marvellously fearless! ”
“Not a waiter in sight,”
Neville’s voice boomed in his
ears.
“You’d better see if you
can chase one up,” Gordon
suggested.
“Not me. I’m not chasing
waiters. It’s not done.”
“If you were as thirsty as I
am you’d chase a camel to tap
its hump,” Gordon answered,
with a mild glare at his wife.
“Giving this young .feller free
drinks and an occasional meal
is all very well,” the glare
indicated, “but I’m not going to
wait on him as well.”
Monica smiled at him, and
waved vaguely in the direction
of a few groups of people who
had entered after them.
“Starting to fill up.”
“I’m not,” Gordon retorted
glumly.
A ND then from the dim
shadows at the far side of
the lounge there emerged slowly
and hesitantly a waiter. He
asked for their order in the voice
of one determined to conserve
his strength even at the expense
of audibility.
Gordon looked at him in pity.
There was no guessing at his age.
He looked old enough to be
awaiting death’s convenience.
“Three beers, please,” Gordon
ordered, and the waiter bowed
and hobbled painstakingly away.
“Cripes—they’ll have to give
that poor old cobber a seeing-
eye if they expect him to find
his way back to the table.” It
was Neville again.
“Will you be staying here
long?” Gordon asked coldly.
“In this hotel?”
“Yes. We’re leaving, our-
selves, in the morning.”
“Well . . .” He paused and
looked at Monica.
“Neville has never seen a
station, Gordon ; he hasn’t even
seen the country, and I
thought”
“Fine! Fine! ” Gordon
answered, while he inwardly
wept for Monica. “For how
long?”
“Oh, just a day or so,” Neville
said airily. “It’s really on the
way to the job I’m taking.”
“A job?”
“Yes—l’ve landed a B-grade
on one of the Albury papers.”
“Oh! Ever worked in a
country town before?”
“No. Why?”
“You’ll find it a bit different.
Country people are marvellously
fearless, ydu know.”
Monica gave him a dig with
her elbow, but didn’t speak.
A prolonged and embarrassing
pause in their conversation was
happily broken by the arrival of
the waiter with their drinks.
“You were on the ‘Globe’
here, weren’t you?” Gordon
asked after the first appreciative
swallow.
“Yes.”
“Get tired of it?”
For a moment Neville looked
thoughtful. His cheeks took on
a slightly redder hue. And then
a wide, embarrassed grin
brought life back to his face.
“No. It got tired of me. I
was sacked.”
Gordon, almost unawares,
found himself returning that
innocent, shamefaced grin, and
soon the two of them were
laughing together.
“Sacked,” Neville repeated.
“I pulled the boner of the
century.”
“Such as what?”
Here Monica stood up, and
smoothed the folds of her dress.
“I think we’d better go to bed,
darling, don’t you? We have an
early start in the morning.”
Gordon stood up. “Right.
See you in the lobby at six-
thirty sharp, young man. If
you’re not on time we don’t
wait.”
“I’ll be there, cobber, I’ll be
there,” Neville promised enthu
siastically, and wished them
good-night.
6 6 A ND what’s more,” Gordon
mumbled at Monica as he
turned out the light over thei
bed, “I didn’t think I was going
to live to be fifty-five years o
age just to hear a boy o
nineteen-or-so call me ‘cobber.’ ’
“I think it’s rather sweet,’
said Monica. “He means no
harm. That’s the way boys talk
today. And he’s so much
younger than his age. He’s
going to go bumbling through
life for another ten years at
least before he finds himself.”
“Huh! Meantime he finds
lots of other people—to look
after him and pay his way. 1
hope this will be your last
essay in lame-duck lifting.”
“Gordon! I know that boy is
just about penniless, and 1
couldn’t refuse him a lift with
us. Besides, you’ll be going to
Albury for the wool-sales, won’t
you?”
“Great grief! Is it all
organised as far as that? Am I
supposed to take him to his job
—is that it?”
“I didn’t think you’d mind.
And I like to think that if Jim
. . . perhaps someone would
have helped him.”
Gordon leaned over and
kissed her. “I knew it. He
reminds you of Jim. Well,
perhaps you’re right.”
No more was said. The
curtain they kept over the war-
years, though it had been
momentarily raised no higher
than the thickness of a knife,
was immediately lowered again.
Neville was at the desk next
morning paying his bill when
Gordon and Monica came down
sharp at 6.30. As Gordon came
up alongside him, Neville took
up his receipted bill and put it
in his pocket.
“Phew! Just made it. I’ve
got twopence left between me
and a life of shame,” he said,
and repeated the infectious grin
of the night before.
“Close sailing, huh!” Gordon
answered noncommittally.
He paid his bill, then pointed
out to Neville his utility stand-
ing ready in front of the hotel.
“Put your bag in the' back.
Come on, Monica, my dear.
You can sit in the middle. By
the time we get home you should
have a great deal of that fat
you are always complaining
about squeezed out of you.”
“Oh, Gordon!” Monica said
reproachfully.
As they left the city behind
them the joyful anticipation of
home they had felt when leaving
the hotel began to fade against


;?m>****,
<>' ' £ \ /
s •:
\! 1 ' ' V !?
?
> <
m
trwSl
m
i
:
s ■
s!J'
For your next suit • • •
. . . you’ll find Crusader cloth is better. Your new suit
is going to cost you good money, so make sure you are
getting the best cloth. And Crusader is best the
result of over forty years experience in weaving fine,
woollen fabrics.
I’ve just been looking through Crusader’s new 1955-56
range, and you can take it from me, it’s the most attrac-
tive selection of modern suitings I’ve ever seen. In
fact, this range is as good as the world’s best.
You can always depend on Crusader, because the
Crusader Mills guarantee their cloth. They guarantee
that only pure Australian merino fleece wool is used
in the weaving. They guarantee that no synthetics or
substitutes of any kind are added. They guarantee that
Crusader cloth will give years
of hard wear. And they
guarantee it will never fade
or shrink.
What more do you want?
The smartest suit in town? If
you use Crusader, that is
what you’ll have. So ask
your tailor to show you the
new Crusader Pattern Book,
and you’ll see what I mean.
Special
SeifictCaa
DOUBLE WARP
DOUBLE WEFT
(frusailet
S**JZru?s
(fvusaiVr Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
the pressure of the boring and
slightly uncomfortable present.
This time the drive down to
their property in the Riverina
was, Monica found herselt
admitting, something of a trial,
though Neville was obviously
enjoying every inch of the
journey. Gordon was grumpy
and inclined to make comments
that, for him, sounded unusually
sarcastic.
Only once were the three of
them joined as one by laughter,
and then it was because of a
story Neville told against him-
self.
BUT the most trying part of all
was the way Neville bridged
the frequent gaps in their con-
versation by singing at the top
of his voice. He had a voice
that matched, even bettered, his
weight and frame, and in the
confined space of the utility s
cabin Monica found the effect
shattering in the extreme.
“Ah, sweet mystery of life,”
sang Neville, in tones which
banished mystery finally and for
ever. “Give me the open road,,
he roared, and Monica couldn t
help reflecting that it was -now
too late, or they would.
She gave Gordon a strained
smile behind which there
lurked the threat of a headache.
“Say something,” she begged
him wordlessly.
Gordon cleared his throat.
“On newspapers, aren’t you?’
Monica inwardly groaned.
“Was —and soon will be,”
Neville answered cryptically,
and showed signs of resuming
his song.
“Dammitall,” Gordon roared
in feigned anger, “never mind
the fancy answers. Give a plain
yes or no to a plain question. ’
“Sorry. Sorry. Yes. I was
on the ‘Globe.’ I left them a
fortnight ago.”
“Why? Didn’t make enough
to retire, did you?”
“Neville explained all that last
night, dear,” Monica put in
mildly.
“Yes. Oh, yes. What made
them sack you?”
“Well,” Neville began hesi-
tantly, “I suppose it was really
over the last Show. Our blokes
there forgot one of the competi-
tive results, and the sub-editor
asked me to ring-up and get the
details. Either I mistook what
he said, or what the bloke at the
Show said. Anyway, when 1
came into the office the next day
some of the other reporters gave
me hell. Very funny, they were.
As though they had never made
any mistakes in their lives. But
the sub. didn’t think it was so
funny.”
“Well, what were the results?
What was the mistake you
made?”
Neville grinned self-
consciously. “This’ll kill you,
I know. As a matter, of fact,
it was sheaf-tossing. I’d never
heard of the damned thing, but
I had heard of —well, the day
after I made the phone-call it
was printed in our paper that
Tom Fenton of Talbingo won
the sheep-tossing event with a
throw of forty-eight-feet. The
sub. was tired that night, and the
damn’ thing got through. Even
the proofreaders missed it.”
Monica and Gordon didn’t
hear his final explanations. They
were shaking with laughter. The
vision of a sheep spinning
thro.ugh the air at a height of
48-feet, a frantically - bleating
woolly ball as it turned over and
over, was too much for them.
“So it’s me for the country, to
find out what goes,” Neville
added when they had subsided.
“But I’m not really sorry. I
couldn’t stand the chief-of-staff
—the bloke who’s responsible
for the reporters. Honest —the
most disillusioned eyes I have
ever seen! He said to me: ‘I
feel, Mr. Barton, that you have
chosen the wrong profession. A
true newspaperman’s first and
last concern is accuracy.’ Just
like that—l felt about 50-high.
So I got this job in Albury, and
I guess the ‘Globe’ will just have
to stagger on without me.”
Gordon chuckled. “Hence
the decline in the city press.”
“Gordon!” Monica warned.
Neville clucked disgustedly.
“Go on. You might as well
have a go at me, too. Every-
body else has.”
“Nothing of the kind,” said
Monica. “Put it all behind
you. We’ll soon be at Twelve-
trees, and then you can see”
She had been about to say,
“And then you can see some
sheep for yourself,” but realised
just in time that it was not a
tactful or, even a necessary thing
to say.
“You can do some shooting if
you like,” she said instead.
“There are still a few rabbits
about.”
“Fine!” said Neville.
WHEN they arrived at Twelve-
trees, Monica showed him
to his room and then, explaining
that she was going to the kitchen
to prepare them a meal, told him
to go outside and have a look
around.
“Give me about an hour.
How about some fried steak in
a hurry?”
“Marvellous! ”
“Oft - you go, then. Have a
look at Mr. Trenton's place
next-door, too. He won the
clover-contest this year. He
likes showing people around.”
Neville put his fingers to his
forehead in imitation of a
military-salute, clicked his heels,
smiled, and said, “Be seeing
you.”
When he came into the
kitchen some time later he was
carrying a large, old-fashioned
double-barrelled gun. He put it
carefully in a corner, and joined
Monica at the stove.
“Good bloke, old Trenton.
Gave me that gun.”
“Won’t be long,” she greeted
him. “I didn’t like to start the
steak until the vegetables were
almost done. Be a good boy and
get me the butter out of the
fridge, will you?”
“Sure.”
Neville looked in the direction
she indicated with a nod of her
head, and then walked over to
the refrigerator. S He stood look-
ing at its door for a minute in
silence.
“Phew!” he exclaimed.
“That’s a fridge - and - a - half
you’ve got there, isn’t it?”
He opened the door, took out
the large dish of butter, and
brought it to Monica at the
table.
“You know, there’s an .old
biddy at King’s Cross who’d —
look, if she had a refrigerator
like that she’d put a bed and a
table in it and let it as a self-
contained flat for about four-
quid a week. Honest, she
would! ”
Monica laughed obligingly,
but her mind was not fully on
what he had said. The pan
with the steak was spattering
and cackling alarmingly on the
stove; and, just as she realised
what might happen, happen it
did. The whole pan suddenly
ignited with a whoosh of flame
and heavy black smoke. Monica
screamed, and rushed to take it
from the stove, but Neville was
before her.
“Open the door!” he yelled.
“Open the door.”
She opened the back-door and
he hurried out with the burning
pan held carefully by the handle
in his two hands.
When he came back she was
leaning, white-faced, against the
sink.
“Oh —N e v i 11 e! What a
fright! ”
Instinctively, without thought,
he put his arms around her to
comfort her, and at that moment
Gordon entered the kitchen.
Monica disengaged herself
from Neville’s arms.
“What’s the matter? Is some-
thing on fire?”
“Just our dinner gone up in
smoke, that’s all. The pan
caught on fire. I don’t know
what I’d have done if Neville
hadn’t been here. Now it’ll have
to be something out of a tin,
I’m afraid.”
MONICA, enjoying Gordon’s
jealousy a little more than
she thought a woman of her age
had a right to, couldn’t resist
teasing him when he made a few
carefully off-centre remarks in
their bedroom that night about
the kitchen incident.
“He reminds me of a great big
Labrador or St. Bernard puppy.
He’s rather sweet,” she
explained.
“Puppy, perhaps —but don’t
forget it’s male,” Gordon mur-
mured quietly, half to himself.
“You old silly! He might
have been comforting his
mother. It was just a natural
protective reaction to what had
happened.”
Gordon didn’t answer that
one, though it was on the tip of
his tongue to say: “That’s all
very well —the trouble with
women is you never know when
the motherly instinct is likely
to stop and the female instinct
to begin.”
On reflection, he found the
phrase so pleasing that he
repeated it to himself; and,
having done so, he realised how
ridiculous the whole thing was.
The boy had done no more than
help Monica, and here he was
trying to elevate the incident to
the status of a French bedroom-
farce.
He put out his hand in the
dark and took hold of hers. And
thus they fell asleep.
For the next two days Neville
roamed their property, some-
times with Gordon and some-
times on his own; sometimes
with the old-fashioned double-
barrelled gun Trenton had given
him, sometimes with one of the
dogs. He was interested in, and
enjoyed with great gusto, every-
thing he saw and did. Gordon
and Monica found the Magna-
pole Hotel Neville being re-
placed in their minds by the
Twelve-trees Neville, an entirely
different being, and they were
both genuinely sorry when, on
the third day, it was necessary
for them to set out for Albury.
But if Neville felt anything,
either joy or sorrow, he didn’t
show it. He was nothing more
than completely interested in
everything each new day held
for him, an all-absorbing
interest that took people and
things in its stride. His large,
almost handsome, face was
wreathed in a perpetual, engag-
ing grin. The world was his
plaything, and care sat not upon
it.
Monica and Gordon, cooped
with him once again in the cabin
of the utility, smiled wryly at
each other as it reverberated
with song. Neville was in form.
Albury doesn’t know what’s
coming to it, Gordon reflected.
I wish I had his vitality and my
experience.
He is Jim larger than life-size,
Monica thought, and soon there
will be the old emptiness again
“Whoa! Pull up, cobber, pull
up!” Neville roared.
GORDON made a hurried
hand-signal, and braked
hard.
“What’s up?” he asked in
alarm.
“Ducks,” Neville said glee-
fully, pointing at a large stretch
of water on their right.'
Gordon looked, and sniffed.
“A duck —not ducks,” he
corrected.
“All right, then—-but that ‘a
duck’ is mine. Can I get out?”
“Sure,” Gordon replied in
resignation, getting out.
He watched in silence as
Neville went to the back of the
utility, fumbled a while among
the luggage and odds-and-ends
there, and brought out the
(Continued on page 34)


-4H/
u
|o^- —\
v
u
LJ
?t>
I
jf pSSgSSE
I nr ir nSSrir r r
X 7
COVE"
3
> <»
nua
a, -»
C 3
* >
U
Cs
o
■S'.
C><6
oxa vc
8
CR E EN
2j>a
-uca:
park
KIJ
!><>:>
©
©3
|\V
O'#'*
i>?2££
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure—when only the best will do?
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson's Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
X
Benson cm/. Heboes
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
The Plunge
By "PAKEHA"
YOU would have said that
Mr. Buston hadn’t a
care in the world. He
sat in his little boat,
pipe in mouth, fishing-line over
the side.
It was one of those perfect
days you get off the New Zealand
coast, a very blue sea, a softer
blue sky and here and there a
few woolly, friendly sort of
clouds.. There was neither a
swell nor a jobble, just that
lulling movement.
But you would be wrong.
Mr. Buston had one definite
care in the world and a big one
at that. For he was the head-
master of a little sole-charge
Maori school in a very remote
pah and in two days time there
would descend on him the only
man he feared in the world—
the school-inspector.
The situation wasn’t new, far
from it, for Mr. Buston had
taken up the noble calling when
he came back from the other
war. It had appealed to him
then, a life with nobody to
bother him except for this
apparent necessary infliction. In
the Army he had been shy and
was a martyr to sergeant-major-
phobia.
He still remembered too
vividly what had happened on
the dreadful day last year. The
children had “pulled down the
blinds.” They had stubbornly
refused to answer even the most
elementary question. The in-
spector had used all his cunning.
He gave them sums almost proof
against error —the children, pro-
bably deliberately, got them
wrong. They had mumbled
when they read, they had fid-
geted, talked and eaten, they
had thrown their rubbish on
the floor ; in fact, they had done
all the things they ought not to
have done. Perhaps worst of all,
they had been caught several
times whispering to one another
in Maori.
The inspector had tried the
benevolent approach. The
children suspected some ruse
and refused to be charmed.
Finally, determined to get some
sort of answer, somehow, from
someone he had asked the
obviously-oldest girl in the room
the easiest question of all; he
asked her name. She .covered
her face with her hands, bowed
her head and remained silent.
It was the last straw. He
refused to be beaten.
“What is your name, girl?”
he roared. No reply.
“Didn’t you hear what I
said? What is your name?”
Still no reply.
Then in desperation, “Well,
what is your father’s name?”
The girl sensed that this was
an attempt to pry into her
private affairs, and, anyway,
she’d had enough of this bully-
ing pakeha.
“I don’t know,” she whispered.
“Well, why don’t you ask
your mother?” he advised,
angrily.
The girl sat for a time, looked
to Mr. Buston for some lead,
got no help there. He knew
the struggle that was going on as
she tried to put her Maori
thoughts into English words,
still unfamiliar even after several
years at school, and rarely used
beyond its precincts.
she got everything
A to her satisfaction, remem-
bered that she must not whisper,
raised her voice and painstak-
ingly gave her answer.
“She doesn’t know, sir, and
she is my aunt and my two
brothers are my nieces.”
The inspector gave up. He
had not been at the game long
enough to understand the Maori
mind, the complexities of the
Maori household or the in-
adequacies of Maori.
He turned them all outside,
and there followed an uncom-
fortable half-hour for Mr. Bus-
ton as they walked up and down
under the trees on the' far side
of the ground well away from
the offenders, who sat, unsmil-
ing and hostile, in the shelter-
shed, and silent, except for an
occasional muttered opinion of
the visitor. He wouldn’t have
understood anyway, because,
still suspicious, they confined
themselves to their mother-
tongue.
Poor Mr. Buston. He could
have given the answer, but he
was too polite. The elemen-
tary fact was that the inspector
had an accent and, still worse,
a high-pitched voice, and he.
might as well have been speak-
ing Swahili for all the children
really understood.
The grading-report that fol-
lowed gave Mr- Buston no shock;
he was used to them. He had
already reconciled himself to
yet another year in that remote
spot, with its discomforts and its
aloof people.
A SUDDEN pull on his line
brought him out of his
reverie, and with a fine trevally
flapping in the fish-box he
abandoned the past for the pre-
sent and the near-future.
He had given this thing much
thought, and now he was con-
fident he had the perfect plan.
He had what far better men
than him would have given their
eye-teeth for. It seemed fool-
proof, inspector-proof and even
boy-and-girl-proof.
And little Wiri would not
mind —poor kid, he lay in the
gloom of the meeting-house
oblivious to the soft wailing of
the women and the rich smell
of the cooking and all the other
preliminaries of the tangi. Mr.
Buston had sent a wire to tell the
visitor that the children would
all be going to the funeral
in the afternoon; and that re-
duced the chances of failure by
one half.
Wiri and Tau and Pita had
ridden their horses up the coast
to the fishing-rocks. The day
had been calm, with almost no
sea, and the boys, young and
not overexperienced, had gone
out too far. Intent on their fish-
ing they did not notice the
sudden big wave before it was
roaring up at them.
The two bigger boys got a
better start, but when they lookec
back all they could see of Wiri
was his little arms and legs
threshing among the great kelp
between the slimy rocks.
They got him in the end,
reckless of their own safety, and
put him down on the beach.
There was a deep gash in his
head and his arms and legs
were all scratches and he was
moaning, and they agreed in
their few words that he’d “had
it.”
We can forgive them a bit of
panic, but they did what they
thought right. They went for
help, urging their sorry nags
along the hoof-tracks through
the dunes.
By the school gate a group of
men sat on their horses waiting
or the daily mail-van, and the
party tore back to the beach
like a sequence from one of their
favorite Westerns, seen once a
month at the local hall.
sut they were too late to do
much for Wiri. Another large
surge on the flooding tide had
come with tragic swiftness, and
the sea, once cheated, made no
mistake this time, and Wiri’s
soul had started on that long
journey to Reinga.
So it had been to a very sub-
dued school the next day that
Mr. Buston had given his talk,
putting it into those simple words
that the backblocks Maori
could understand.
He went through it step by
step, wrote it on the board, got
them to write it down, repeated
it and left it at that.
It seemed complete: Loosen-
ing the clothes, keeping warm,
emptying out the water and,
above all, getting the victim out
of reach of the tide.
He could not remember see-
ing so many eyes brimming with
tears, and it was made no easier
by the tears in his own.
IyOW the big day had come.
11 Mr. Buston had literally
burned the midnight-oil. Back
very early, even for him, he
surveyed his handiwork, and
was satisfied. Blackboard a
showpiece, windows clean, no
spider-webs, the stove polished,
none of those tell-tales that the
young and uninitiated might
have left to their undoing.
He did not think the inspector
could arrive before he had got
everybody well primed. The
inspector had ten miles to come,
and presumably he would have
too much intelligence to risk an
early breakfast at the pub. Mr.
Buston hoped not, anyway, for
both their sakes.
However, he misjudged his
man; and while the children
were drifting in twos-and-threes
out of the tea-tree, or galloping
along the dusty road, the scouts
at the corner made their frantic
signals. The bell pealed lustily,
everybody broke into a double,
and by the time the car arrived
at the gate, Mr. Buston had them
in two lines and was doing the
nails and ears.
All eyes were on the visitor
as he came across the sandy
playground. It was a new one,
a more human-looking type. He
shook hands with Mr. Buston
and beamed his “Good-morning,
boys and girls! ” at the assembly.
The frowns evaporated
magically and they gave him a
welcome, went into school
tidily and settled down.
The omens seemed good, anc
Mr. Buston’s heart was lighter
than it had been for years on
these fateful occasions. The in-
spector had been accepted ; he
was an honored guest; they
would work for him. They
rose to unprecedented heights
The picture of good grading-
marks became more and more
rosy, and Mr. Buston dared to
think where he would like to
go next —near a town, near the
amenities that he had not en-
joyed for so long ; nearer a good
pub, perhaps.
So the morning went by,
smoothly and happily. The sums
were coming right, the questions
were being answered in loud,
clear voices. The winning-post
seemed in sight. Surely Mr.
Buston was not being too opti-
mistic. Perhaps the inspector
would finish-off early he was
going fifteen-miles to his next
school and he was certain of a
good lunchJhere.
And so it was. The inspector
gathered up his papers, put
them away carefully in his case,
took off his glasses and gave all
the indications of departure.
“Well, Mr. Buston,” he said.
“That’s about all I want to do.”
He smiled. “I’ve done all the
work this morning. I’m sure
you’d like to finish it off. What
have you got? It’s all yours.”
r pHE great moment had
arrived. They just couldn’t
have forgotten yesterday’s lesson.
Mr. Buston knew that the show
was his. He took his stance
and cleared his throat.
“Children,” he said, “two days
ago little Wiri was drowned.
Now, I want you to imagine that
two of you are riding along the
beach. There is a storm and
out at sea a boat has been sunk.
On the beach at the edge of the
water you see a pakeha man,
all wet. He is lying on his
back and he has on a heavy
coat and a scarf. The tide is
coming in. You kneel down
beside him and have a look at
him. You feel his heart—it
is just beating and he is just
breathing. Remember, the tide
is coming in and there are two
of you.”
He let all that soak in and
then made his great throw. He
could so easily have got all the
answers he wanted from almo
any of them. Even the smalle;
ones were excited in their eager-
ness to help him. But he would
show this inspector something
worth while.
At the back of the room in
an outsize desk was poor old
Heke, sixteen, by courtesy in
standard-two, only about three-
out-of-ten mentally. The in-
spector had given him up very
early in the piece.
“Heke,” he said, “what is the
first thing that you would do?”
Heke did not hesitate. Con-
fidently, cheerfully and un-
necessarily he shot up his hand
and his gruff manly voice gave
his first answer for days. He
almost shouted in his excitement.
“Look in his pockets for his
cigarettes.”
T HAD a nice day’s fishing with
A Mr. Buston last week. He
got his good, marks, but he was
staying on. He’d bought him-
self a little car and the electric-
power would be coming some
time this year. Anyway, what
influenced him most was that he
didn’t feel like leaving his little
flock to a poor teacher.


WHY COMMONWEALTH LOAN
INVESTMENT
IS A PATRIOTIC DUTY
FOR ALL AUSTRALIANS
with money to invest...
The many thousands of Australians who save
and invest money should be fully aware of the
great purposes to which Commonwealth Loan
funds are applied, and their vital function in
assisting expansion of productive enterprise,
both primary and secondary. Money invested
in the Commonwealth Loan now open will be
used to finance completion of carefully selected
programmes of public works to provide the
additional water, power, basic materials and
transport facilities without which there cannot
be substantial national development.
A steady flow of Commonwealth Loan money
is also essential to the continued provision of
more schools, hospitals and homes, to the
productive absorption of migrants, and to
educational, medical and social advancement.
The economic problems of a young, rapidly
growing, expanding and ambitious country
require a patriotic understanding of the true
national needs. Investment in Commonwealth
Loans will help toward their solution.
When you invest in the Commonwealth Security
Loan now open, you can be sure that interest
at an unvarying rate will be paid to you
regularly for the full period of your invest-
ment. You can also be sure that, when your
securities mature and become due for repay-
ment, you will get your money back in full. The
Commonwealth Government guarantees your
Loan investment both as to payment of interest
at a fixed rate and repayment of capital at full
face value when your securities mature. A
further unique advantage to Commonwealth
Loan investors is the special Income Tax Rebate
of 2/- in the £1 of Commonwealth Loan interest
included in taxable income. (Of course, the
rebate cannot exceed the amount of tax
otherwise payable.)
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follow:
1. 7-YEAR SECURITIES BEARING
INTEREST AT
5%
PER ANNUM ISSUED
AT £99/10/-PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON APRIL 15,
1963
2. SHORT-TERM SECURITIES
BEARING INTEREST AT
i%
PER ANNUM
ISSUED AT
£99/TO/-PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON AUGUST 15,
1957
Minimum Subscription is
£lO for the 7-year term
and £lOO for the short-term
securities.
Applications may be
lodged with any bank,
savings bank or stock-
broker.
Invest in the
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN NOW OPEN
as?
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
255L9.145.3&


Divorce Notice
15 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RORY MICHAEL O’CONNELL also
known as MICHAEL O’CONNELL late of
19 Belmont Street Newcastle New South
Wales {merchant seaman). —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH EVELYN
TULLOH (falsely called O’CONNELL)
has filed a Petition for annulment No.
3870 on the ground that at the time
of the ceremony of her marriage to your-
self you were still married to JEAN
CHARLES If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales on
or before the 20th July 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from BRUCE ROBERT MILES, Solicitor,
of 250 Pitt Street, Sydney, in the State
aforesaid.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Research in Industry
No. 24 in a Series
Science and Medicine
Chemotherapy the science of the treatment of disease by
chemical substances, was just beginning in England at the time of the
great plague in 1665, and George Starkey, a skilled British apothecary
of the time, is said to have produced a “chymicall” specific which
cured this dread disease.
It was, however, two other famous British scientists who laid the
foundations for today’s great Pharmaceutical industry Michael
Faraday, who discovered benzene, the base from which many dyes and
medicinal substances are made, and William Perkin, who just 100
years ago produced the first synthetic dyestuff.
From Perkin’s discovery came a great family of aniline dyes, and
from the research associated with these dyes came many compounds
which have tremendous value in the treatment of disease and infection
in both man and animal.
The Dyestuffs and other Division of Imperial Chemical Industries
in England have long produced many substances for use in medicine
and in 1942 a separate organisation was set up within ICI to produce
and distribute a wide range of Pharmaceutical products.
Today, ICI makes such things as penicillin, sulpha drugs, anti-
malanals, anaesthetics, antiseptics and a host of other allied products
Research is still continuing, and there is no doubt that it will produce
many new drugs with even greater therapeutic value than those in use
today.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
■937. L. 848.307011
Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOnf^
OSIiUXV'YK
ivrnmi.t.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS ,
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WUNDERLICH SINKS
> i ////// /
ouHhinc.- them all
' / / <///! I \ V\ V\ \
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
'm. ,»*
*:& M Wi-
m
m
v
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
SINK
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Pack Horse and
Camel Pad, by Gordon Buchanan. —
6320.
To buy H. Belshaw’s Guaranteed
Prices in Operation (Melb. Univ.
Press, 1939); M. M. Bennett’s
Christison of Lammermoor (Lond.,
1927); Bentham and Hooker’s
Genera Plantarum (3 vols., 1862-
1883); Black’s Flora of South Aus-
tralia (Vols. 3 and 4); and J. A.
Blake’s- Westpointer with the Boers. —
6321.
To sell The Australian Home
Gardener (in first-class condition). —
6322.
To buy aboriginal weapons and
implements (the genuine article, not
the type of thing which is put out for
tourists). Also old guns, swords,
etc. —6318.
To buy Follow the Gleam, by
Silas Hocking; in any condition. —
6319.
Information Sought
Some information on the “plat-
form” of the Australian Labor
Party ?
The “platform” is a document
setting out the aims and objectives
of the party. Its cardinal rule,
adopted in 1921, is the “socialisation
of the means of production, distri-
bution and exchange,” but the plat-
form also deals with many phases of
public life, including White Australia,
old-age pensions, hours of work and
Army service. It may be changed only
by Federal conference of the party.
For instance, the 1945 Melbourne
conference discussed revision of plat-
form and rules, and instituted a
committee to go into the matter.
It reported back to the 1948 Can-
berra conference, suggesting amend-
ments to the wording of the
Socialisation objective and one or two
other matters all of which
Conference adopted. Again, the 1953
Adelaide conference added a pre-
amble to the platform, prepared
by Mr. Kim Beazley, M.H.R., which
aimed to set out the nature and
general philosophy of the party.
Every member of the party is expected
to give unwavering allegiance to the
platform as it stands at . a given
moment. “If he disagrees with a par-
ticular line of policy,” says Warren
Denning in Inside Parliament, “a
member may work inside the party
to have it changed; but if he opposes
it publicly or vqtes against it in
Parliament, expulsion from the party
is the inevitable consequence.”
* * * *
One or two facts about the State
of Oklahoma ( JJ.S.A.} ?
Everyman’s Encyclopcedia lists the
following facts. The name is a
Choctaw Indian word meaning “red
people”; it is a south-central State of
the U.S.A., bounded on the north by
Kansas, east by Missouri and Arkan-
sas, west and south by Texas. Area
69,919 sq.-miles, including 643 sq.-
miles of water. Population (no date
given), 2,352,000. Chief cities:
Oklahoma City, the capital, 267,000;
Tulsa, 180,200; Muskogee, 32,300;
Enid, 28,000; Shawnee, 22,000. The
State consists mainly of upland prairie,
large portions being very fertile; it
produces cotton, wheat, oats, maize,
potatoes, etc. Wool is also grown.
Petroleum, coal, rock-asphalt, lime-
stone and gypsum are found, value of
the total mineral output for 1946 be-
ing $326 million. In 1947 over 141-
million barrels of petroleum were
produced ; petroleum-refining is the
chief industry of the State. There
are several big rivers, particularly the
Arkansas, Red and Canadian, and
three mountain-chains. The State
has a Senate of 44 and a House of
Representatives of 114 to 120 mem-
bers; it sends two Senators and eight
representatives to Congress. Okla-
homa was admitted as a State in
1907, being originally known as
Indian Territory because of its great
Indian reservations. Indians remain a
large percentage of the population.
* * * *
(1) How is the cinquain verse-
form constructed? (2) What manner
of thought should it seek to express?
(3) An example?
(1) It consists of five lines, the first
line containing one iambic foot, the
second line two, the third line three,
the fourth line four, and the fifth line
one. Each foot contains two
syllables • and there is no need of
rhyme. (2) The thought must be led
gracefully and gradually up to the"
end of the fourth line, where fanci-
fully it may be said the sentiment
remains an instant poised on a dainty
toe, then sharply and neatly it regains
solid ground. The final figure of the
pirouette may be either comedy,
pathos or any variety of the gro-
tesque or unexpected. (3) Examples
are difficult to find, but the one
quoted, though not of the best, will
suffice to show how the cinquain is
constructed:
November Night.
Listen,
With faint, dry sound,
Like steps of passing ghosts,
The leaves, frost-crisped, break from the
trees
And fall.
* * * •
Some information on urea and its
use in relation to stock-feed manu-
facture?
A very soluble, crystalline, nitro-
genous compound, urea, CO(NH2)2
(also known as carbamide), occurs in
the urine of mammals and carni-
vorous birds and reptiles; it forms 3
per cent, of human urine. It may be
prepared from urine by the addition
of a strong nitric acid to a small bulk
of urine reduced by evaporation. The
precipitated crude urea-nitrate is re-
crystallised from nitric-acid and dis-
solved in water, the solution then
decomposed with barium-carbonate,
evaporated to dryness, and the urea
extracted with alcohol. In the
laboratory urea is more commonly
prepared by heating ammonium-
cyanate. Urea was discovered in
urine in 1733 and was artificially pro-
duced by Wohler in 1828. It is now
manufactured on a fairly large scale
for use as an artificial manure, in the
manufacture of a clear synthetic resin,
and in the preparation of various
drugs. As synthetic chemical con-
taining a large amount of nitrogen,
urea is used in stock-feed as a protein-
substitute; lib. of urea supplies
sufficient nitrogen to produce,
theoretically, 2|lb. of protein, which
is, for instance, the amount of pro-
tein in 51b. of meatmeal, or 81b. of
linseed-meal. Runlinants (i.e., cattle,
sheep and goats) are the only animals
capable of using urea as a protein-
substitute; they have in their rumen
(or paunch) micro-organisms able to
utilise the nitrogen of the urea for
synthesis of protein. Pigs and
poultry, which have a different type
of digestive tract, are incapable of
converting urea into protein, and it
is useless to feed them urea. Further
references will be found in the Jan.,
1953, “N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette”
(in the article “Is Urea the Answer to
Protein Concentrate Shortages?”) and
in “Farming in South Africa,” Vol.
29, No. 337, April, 1954 (article,
“Urea as a Protein Supplement in
Livestock Nutrition”).
* ♦ * *
Measurements of a terois-tsourt, and
quantity of cement required to cover
it ?
Court, 78ft. by 36ft. Allow 2ft.
extra, at least, at the sides of the
court, and 7ft. at each end. Using
a mixture of one cement, two and a
half sand and four crushed stone, for
a court 4in. thick, the base-court, 3in.
thick, will take 146 cubic-feet of
cement, 362 cubic-feet of sand, 579
cubic-feet of crushed stone. For the
surface-court, lin. thick, using a mix-
ture of one cement and two sand, 112
cubic-feet of cement and 222 cubic-
feet of sand will be required. Extra
material for sides and ends in pro-
portion. Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, will give full advice
on application.
* * *
What is the story of the abandon-
ment of the steamer Pilbarra in the
Pacific about 50 years ago ?
On the run from Noumea to Suva
on March 4, 1905, she lost her pro-
peller-blades, and on the night of the
7th, drifting close into the s.-e. point
of Erromanga (New Hebrides), was
abandoned. The crew, who had
landed in Dillon Bay, saw her at day-
break drifting into the s.-w., and
some of them rowed after her and
boarded her on the Bth at noon.
On the 13 th the Induna picked up
those of the crew who remained at
Dillon Bay, then set after the Pilbarra,
took her in tow off D’Entrecasteaux
Reef (New Caledonia) on the 17th,
and got her to Vila Harbor (New
Hebrides) on the 21st.
* * * *
Did William Charles Wentworth
ever make an effort to establish an
Australian peerage, and, if so, what
prevented his carrying out the idea ?
In 1853 Wentworth’s select com-
mittee, appointed by the N. S. Wales
Leg. Council to draft a Constitution
bill, recommended tthe creation of
peers with hereditary titles to form
a body from which members of the
Upper House under responsible
government should be drawn. Henry
Parkes, through his newspaper the
“Empire,” called on all citizens to
oppose the establishment of a
colonial aristocracy with legislative
functions. As a result of the deter-
mined opposition to the proposal,
Wentworth reluctantly agreed to
abandon it, accepting instead the
nominee-principle for the Upper
House.
* * * •
(1) Is A ustralia the headquarters of
the marsupials? (2) Is the order con-
fined strictly to Australia ?
(1) Yes. (2) No. An entire family
(that of the true, or American,
opossums, comprising about 24
species) is confined to America ; the
only living representative ( Ccenolestes )
of an entirely distinct group is an
inhabitant of the same continent.
Tasmania and New Guinea, formerly
connected with the mainland, contain
over 60 species of marsupials. A
species of wallaby occurs in the Aru
Islands, and another species in the
New Britain group. is a cuscus
in Amboina, the Solomons, Timor
and some of the smaller islands, and
another cuscus in Celebes.
* • * *
How long does copyright of a novel
exist in the case of a living author?
How long does it last when there are
two authors, and how long for a post-
humous work?
A copyright under the Common-
wealth Act subsists for 50 years after
the death of a sole author. With a
work of joint authorship copyright
subsists during the life of the author
who dies first and for a term of 50
years after his death, or during the
life of the author who dies last,
whichever period is the longer. Eor
posthumous works copyright subsists
till 50 years after publication.
Brief Answers
C.H.0.: Copies of the report
“The Design, and Construction of
Solar Water Heaters,” by R. N.
Morse, are no longer available for
distribution. A copy, however, may
be seen at the Regional Library, Uni-
versity Grounds, Nedlands, W.A.
Since it is anticipated that a further
report will be issued later this year,
a note has been made by the
C.5.1.R.0. of your request, and a
copy will be forwarded to you as
soon as it becomes available....
B.N.C. and J.H. van G.: Write Miss
S. A. E. Strom, President, Shiplovers’
Society of Victoria, 520 Punt-road,
South Yarra, S.E.I, Melbourne...'.
L.M.B. (N.Z.): Webster’s 1934 edi-
tion gives, among others, these defini-
tions for “hump”—“A fit of the blues
or ill-temper; sulks. Slang, Brit.”
and “A long tramp with a bundle on
one's back; as a hump of 50 miles.
Slang, Australia”.... D. 8.: Con-
struction of the Trans-Australian Rail-
way, as with all other Federal and
State lines, was financed by loan
expenditure R.J.S.: Write Dr.
Colin Roderick, Hon. Sec., Chair of
Australian Literature Fund, 88
Abbotsford - road, Homebush
(N.5.W.).... W.C.P.: Furred Animals
of Australia, by Ellis Trough ton,
obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney; price 30s C.8.A.: Get soil
from land where the bush has grown,
place it in a box or in a dug-out
bed and sow seed in it. Water
lightly at regular intervals until young
shrubs appear, then shut-off the
moisture; “wet-feet** is fatal. July
is a good month to put in seed.
When shifting Christmas-bush to
open ground take care not to damage
roots E.L.F.: An aquarium
cement that does not set rock-hard
may be composed of jib. whiting, jib.
plaster-of-paris, jib. litharge, jib. fine
sand and loz. resin, worked to the
consistency of ordinary putty with
varnish, gold-size or boiled-oil. Or
take equal parts by weight of litharge
and zinc-white, with or without the
addition of a little whiting.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.C.R.: William, don’t let anybody
persuade you that what you sent was
poetry. But you have an ear for
rhyme; keep that in tune and go on
reading and practising—and tearing-
up.... F.D.: Murderers who carry
snakes around to do theiir dirty work
have had their day in fiction
D.D.: Received three poems—one to
an old hat, one to an old pipe, one
to an old dog. With an alteration
of a word or two, any one of the
three could have been addressed to
the others A.S.W.: Glowing in-
vocations to December dawns are out
of season.... D.W.: The N.S.W.
election’s over; now you send in your
pre-election brainwaves H.W.: All
the old bush tags “gnarled
eucalypts,” “furry possums,” “carol-
ling magpies”—how often we have
heard them before... .N.J.: One
stirring, stanza from “In Defence of
Ants”:
Men are so blind they let loose war on
ants
And pandemonium reigns, while fiends in
pants
Trample down ant-hills, killing fellow-
creatures.
Such men have devil stamped on their
features.


Report on the Record-breokers
“PUNCH, Ron; PUNCH, Ron;
PUNCH, Ron; PUNCH..."
By
RON HARRISON
ON Monday, March 5,
1956, Ron Ruenalf
walked out of the Trades
Hall, Ipswich, Queens-
land, once again world ball-
punching champion.
To gain the title he had con-
tinuously punched a ball for 178
hours ; that is, for a whole week
of days and nights, plus another
10 hours on top. . .
Last thing in the world I
would be likely to write about
would be the world ball-punch-
ing championship, normally.
Until last July I didn’t even know
that such a title existed. Then
I had it thrust right under my
nose, which still smarts from
the smell of liniment and sweat.
Because of Ruenalf I have had
two young men in the past six
months peer out of bleary eyes
at me and try to carry on light
conversation as they swayed on
their feet and aimed punches
at a swinging ball.
In July of last year Ruenalf
hired the R.S.L. Hall in Redcliffe
(seaside town 20 miles north of
Brisbane) and started to try to
set a hew world-record of 124
hours 20 minutes.
Now everybody wants to be
in on it.
Another Redcliffe man, Neil
Flanagan, broke a Ruenalf
record. He was followed by a
professional trainer, Sandy
Moore. A 19-year-old showgirl
set a women’s ball-punching
record. And then Ruenalf
regained the title.
Where it’s all going to end,
I don’t know. I only hope it
doesn’t end in Redcliffe; I’ve
had enough of it, after witnessing
three attempts.
The outbreak has been con-
fined to southern Queensland,
although Ruenalf did threaten
that he would make an attempt
in Martin-place, Sydney. He was
a bit upset when his exhibition
at Southport, on Queensland’s
Gold Coast, failed to draw the
crowds he expected. But he
did all right at Ipswich ; a crowd
estimated at 2000 watched his
effort.
When Ruenalf started it off
last July the record was held by
Rex Arrol, >of Minneapolis
(U.S.A.). Time, 123 hours 20
minutes. Yes, this is an inter-
national sport. If you can call
it sport. And it is governed by
strict rules. Or so they say.
One of the rules is that each
contender must pass the previous
time by at least an hour to set
a new record.
Ruenalf had to give-up after
punching the ball for 85 hours
on his first attempt, but he did
set one record —he was the first
man to pass 72 hours first try.
At 85 hours he was grey-faced
and his muscles were twitching.
His trainer (Sandy Moore —the
one who later had a go at it
himself) and his father (“Kid”
Ruenalf, who set quite a lot of
ball-punching records before the
war) were urging him to keep
punching, but his eyes were
staring and he seemed unable to
hear what they were saying. He
kept turning away from the ball,
biting his knuckles and rubbing
his elbows and thighs. Finally
he slumped to the floor and was
carried out to an ambulance.
Ruenalf’s greatest trouble
during that attempt came from
arm-cramps. They started 24
hours after he began his punch-
ing, and continued almost
throughout the attempt. Hot
fomentations and continual
massage only eased the cramps,
never completely got rid of them.
His father said the cramps
were caused by Ron punching
too long with his arms bent, and
not straightening them between
punches. Tendons behind the
elbow became stretched, those in
the inside of the arms were
compressed.
But the most bizarre feature,
to me, was the process of going
into a coma. This seemed very
important to Ruenalf and to his
handlers. The theory is that if
the puncher can be persuaded to
let himself go into a controlled
coma he can rest his brain while
his arms keep automatically
punching.
When the time for a coma
approached,, Ruenalf was laid
on a couch high enough to let
him keep punching the ball as
he lay, and gradually his atten-
tion seemed to wander, while
his trainer shouted at him to get
messages through to his fatigued
brain.
Sometimes the shouting was a
rhythmic “Punch, Ron ... Punch,
Ron.” Sometimes the shouts
failed to get through and the
trainer tried other tactics. He
pleaded with him, threw cold
water over him, slapped his
face. . . Ruenalf-came out of
his comas, which sometimes
lasted as long as half-an-hour,
apparently completely refreshed.
The trainer and handlers
pleaded for silence during the
comas. They claimed that noise
might harm the puncher.
Whether this was showmanship
or fact is for a doctor or brain-
spe'cialist to judge, not me.
As soon as Ruenalf came out
of his comas the audience was
encouraged to applaud, to cheer,
to sing ; anything to make the
puncher feel good about himself
and his performance.
During the times when the
shouts and pleas failed to get
through to Ruenalf, he would
sometimes stop punching the ball
altogether for a minute or two.
He is allowed, under rules,
to go three minutes without
touching the ball. He must, too,
under the rules, average a certain
number of blows a . .
Ruenalf’s second attempt was
made in a marquee not far from
the site of his first. Arrange-
ments were better than at the
first attempt, and he went close
to setting the new record. He
had no cramps at all.
He punched for 121 hours 15
minutes, 3 hours 5 minutes short
of the time needed to set the
new record. He was handicapped
at the start by a heavy chest-cold,
but during the attempt he threw
this off. He had more frequent
comas than in the first attempt,
but towards the end he resisted
efforts to make him go under.
He became stubborn, and when
his handlers urged him to punch
the ball he would turn away
from it.
Although handling - arrange-
ments were better in this second
attempt, they were marred
towards 'the end by signs of
hysteria on the part of the
people responsible for trying to
push him through towards the
record. Ruenalf appears to be
a quiet, phlegmatic type of in-
dividual in his approach towards
his record-attempts, and in this
one he appeared to be battling
as much against his handlers’
excitement as against fatigue as
he approached the record-time.
The marquee was packed
almost to suffocation as the even-
ing wore on ; sides of the tent
were takerf down and crowds
pushed and jostled outside to get
a glimpse of what was going on.
Bright and hot lights rigged-up
by a newsreel-company increased
the physical discomfort inside the
tent, where Ruenalf was wearily
hitting the ball at intervals of not
less than 45 seconds, while his
excited handlers shoved at the
crowd and screamed at it to get
back and give him air.
Ruenalf’s final collapse was a
surprise to some people who had
been laying odds on his ability
to pass the record-time. During
the afternoon he had been punch-
ing well, talking to bystanders,
and ]oo king more physically fit
than he did at any time during
his first attempt.
jjjg collapse was not dramatic
—jjg ; a gt walked away from the
and refused to go on.
s evera [ times he did this, and
severa i times he was persuaded
- nto t he mar q Uee Once
wag followed by a group of
who held up a ceiling-ball
on a board and urged him to
punch a t jt outside the
marquee . . .
Well, from there, Ruenalf went
on to Brisbane and to success,
He set-up camp in the premises
of a secondhand-car dealer, and
punched the ball for 125 hours
2 0 minutes. He got good crowds,
i neV er did hear what he made
out of that attem Pfi but in his
second attempt at Redcliffe he
g rossed mo re than £6OO in the
first five days—at two-bob a pop,
children free.
From Brisbane, Ruenalf went
on tQ Southpor j on Queens-
land’s Gold Coast. He set-up
,hele iia “ marduee during the
Christ,nas-holiday period and
expecled to reap a good harvest,
h was just not
interested-even though he did
“I'm afraid Harding has overtrained."
lift the record by another two
hours to 127 hours 20 minutes.
Helping, advising, occasionally
weeping, at Ruenalf’s attempts,
his father, “Kid” Ruenalf, now
a greying man with a slimly
athletic body, is really respon-
sible for all this nonsense. He
started it away back in the early
1920’5, by punching a ball for
24 hours non-stop.
In July, 1921, an American,
Johnny Mack, pushed the time
up to 36 hours. “Kid” let it
rest until November, 1926, when
he went on for 72 hours. In July,
1938, he punched for 96 hours
57 minutes; in January, 1939,
for 108 hours 17 minutes; in
1941, 122 hours 16 minutes
It’s hard to get on to other
records, but interspersed between
these times of “Kid’s” were
record-holdings by, among
others, a Canadian Mounted
Policeman, who is reputed to
have died in his last attempt. The
record has been held at various
limes by Australia, England, the
United States, Canada and
France.
These times have been taken
from a belt held by “Kid” and
now passed on to his son. Pre-
sumably another belt was handed
to the American holders. Arrol
set his new record of 123 hours
20 minutes in 1952.
“Kid’s” main trouble during
his record-attempts was stomach-
cramp. Ron, and other recent
contenders, appeared to have no
trouble on this score. This
could be because “Kid” seems to
be a highly-strung individual,
while the others have been of
more phlegmatic disposition.
After Ron Ruenalf s four
attempts and two records, a 27-
year-old plumber’s laborer, Neil
Flanagan, also from Redcliffe,
decided to have a go. Ruenalf,
too, was 27 at his attempt.
Flanagan succeeded on his
first attempt. His exhibition was
notable for the complete absence
of hysteria as compared with the
atmosphere in the Ruenalf camp,
Flanagan is a well-set-up young
man who has kept himself in tip-
top physical condition ever since
he knew anything about physical
fitness, but he had never even
punched a punchball three weeks
before his attempt on the record.
He remained calm all through
the attempt, and was able to
carry on a reasonably rational
conversation right to the end,
although after four days’punch-
ing his answers came a little
slower than at first. No slower,
though, than those of plenty of
I*°Pl= who have never even seen
a punchball
An hour before he set the new
record of m hours 2 0 minutes
Flanagan entertained his big
audience, in a marquee next to
the R.S.L. Hall at Redcliffe, by
playing the mouthorgan as he
punched the ball, and by singing
hillbillys, with a friend twanging
a guitar.
After the record was broken,
Flanagan walked out of the tent
unaided, lit a cigarette, and
strolled to a waiting taxi,.
Flanagan fought against
attempts to put him into a coma.
Although he was claimed to have
been in a coma twice, I saw no
definite signs of it. Instead, he
appeared almost all through the
latter part of the attempt to be in
a state of self-hypnosis. Particu-
larly, he seemed determined to
hit the ball without taking any
notice of it.
His quiet determination to stay
awake long enough to break the
record, and the determined way
he refused to let fatigue or pain
sidetrack him from that, as well
as his lack of signs of overbear-
ing strain, all suggest self-
hypnosis. He has blue-grey eyes
which have a pinpoint concentra-
tion in them when he is punch-
ing the ball.
Induced comas, on the other
hand, could be a form of out-
side hypnosis, induced by the
continual focusing of the eyes on
the swinging ball, and by the
atmosphere and voice of the
trainer.
Ron Ruenalf was beside
Flanagan almost all through his
attempt, helping and advising
him. When someone praised
Ruenalf for his sportsmanship
he answered frankly that it was
to his interest to see Flanagan
break the record. He said that
his experience at Southport had
proved to him that no one was
interested in seeing him break
his ovvn record, whereas he was
sure they would pack in to see
him attack Flanagan s,
And he was right. He got good
crowds at Ipswich when he set
out again to break the record,
Meantime, “Sandy” Moore,
who had acted as Ruenalfs
trainer during his first two
attempts, decided to have a go.
Moore is 41, father of seven
children.
He made it. He punched the
ball for 130 hours 20 minutes,
an d then collapsed Moores
attempt was m the
Caledonian Hall, Ehzabeth-
street, Brisbane,
Moore became world cham-
pion on March 3, but he was
not allowed to hold the title for
long. As he passed the record-
mark, Ruenalf, up at Ipswich,
had started his new attempt ant
was punching strongly He
finally walked out of the Ipswich
Trades Hall after keeping going
for his 178-honrs' record ; nearly
two full days and nights longer
than Moore’s record, and long
enough, surely, to keep other
contestants at bay for a while.
According to the talk around
the punching-places, at least one
man (as stated) has died in pur-
suit of, the ball-punching record,
and one has ended-up in an
insane-asylum. Which makes the
question of why they do it even
more puzzling, until you look
into it.
Evidently a lot of money can
be made from these attempts.
Ruenalf told me that he had
made £l5OO in six months. At
the time he was making his
second attempt on the record
there was talk of contracts for
personal appearances and ball-
punching demonstrations, with
guarantees of as high as £30,000,
for a tour of the United States.
Arrangements for the U.S.
tour never got completed. But
local personal appearances did
bring in the money. Whether
the damage to brain and body
is worth while, even for a pos-
sible £30,000, is another matter.
I asked Mrs. Flanagan why
Flanagan went 'in for it. She
wasn’t quite clear, but her answer
boiled-down near enough to the
fact that this was an opportunity
for him to shine at something.
The urge to do something better
or longer than anyone else has
ever done it is strong in most of
us, even if in a lot of us it is
taken down to such levels as
o Continued on page 34)


m convinced
CAPSTAN is
better tobaeeo
' 5
* %
Z z.
M
m
.
w
'■z,
■m** 0
U
There’s nothing better after hours
on the road than a break to J
enjoy Capstan Tobacco.
The choice, mild Virginia
leaf in Capstan’s own
blend ensures flavour, fresh
fragrance and smooth
smoking.
Ask everywhere for
CAPSTAN.
CAPSTAN
FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
a
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney jockey Neville Sell-
wood is one of a select band of
horsemen who have ridden 1000
winners in Australia; in his
present form he’s likely to add
many more hundreds to the
total.
Myles Connell (crack horse-
man of about 40 years ago) from
5886 mounts piloted 1080
winners. Overseas figures aren’t
comparable, because there are so
many more riding opportunities
there for leading horsemen. For
instance, Sir Gdrdon Richards
has ridden 4870, and America’s
Johnny Longden has more than
4000 to his credit. A tally more
comparably with Sellwood’s is
L. J. Ellis’s 1088 in New
Zealand. Sellwood has won the
Sydney jockeys’ premiership five
times.
The A.J.C. tried out a new
scheme at its rather distant War-
wick Farm address, with happy
results —first event timed for
1.15 and last for 4.15; half-
hours between events. Slight
delays were overcome, and the
programme concluded three
minutes after the advertised
time. The plan met with all-
round approval. Attendance,
25,500.
Before racing began at War-
wick Farm there was consider-
able business on the big winter
double, Stradbroke Handicap
and Brisbane Cup. Most of the
takers went for Aboukir for the
sprint, and coupled him with
Caranna and Prince Dante. They
should be happy enough at the
moment, because Aboukir dash-
ingly won the Flying Handicap
and Prince Dante had a narrow
win over Caranna.
Caranna may have been
unlucky in the May Handicap.
A. Mulley, who rode him, has
been seen to better advantage. He
had the behind the
leaders to the home-turn, then
came out in the -centre of the
track, a move which didn’t help
over the final short dash to the
post. Caranna was beaten a nose.
Caranna carried 8.7 at War-
wick Farm, and drops to 7.11 in
the Brisbane Cup ; Prince Dante
won with 7.10, and drops to 7.7.
It’s hard to see the Prince beat-
.ing him at those weights. Both
will start in the Queensland St.
Leger before contesting the Cup.
Aboukir’s, Warwick per-
formance was full of merit. He
looked a trifle on the big side
before going to the starting-
gates, but was with the leaders
all the way, and carried 8.9 —31b.
more than his Stradbroke weight.
The handsome three-year-old
colt will not race again before
going to Brisbane.
A surprising lot of money was
placed on Prince Cortauld to
beat Aboukir, though that
former idol had done little lately
to justify such confidence. He
was bandaged on both forelegs,
and, though he looked in good
fettle, he was never a hope, and
finished in the ruck. Maybe the
McCarten stable will find it no
easy task to get Prince Cortauld
back to best form, though it is
likely he will be taken to Bris-
bane for the Ascot and Doomben
carnivals.
New Amber was among
yearlings purchased at the New
Zealand sales last year by Rand-
wick trainer T. J. Smith, who
secured the filly for 600gns.
Having her third run after a
spell, New Amber was made
second-favorite for the Warwick
Farm Two-year-old Handicap
for fillies, and in a close finish
narrowly defeated her stable-
mate Royal Star, an outsider.
Amber, sire of New Amber, won
10 races in France from fur-
longs to \\ mile. Brigid, dam
of New Amber (a first foal), is
a Neptune (imp.) mare from
Duvach by Foxbridge (imp.),
and is a half-sister to Hiraji.
Sydney trainer Percy Gut-
teridge, who rides most of his
“Comb me hair—I must look a fright .”
horses in their early-morning
gallops at Rosebery, led in
Roughway, winnef of the War-
wick Farm Encourage. Rough-
way now goes to open company,
and is in such fine fettle he
should score in, say, a Welter.
After Marly Knowe had easily
won the Warwick Farm Juvenile
; his trainer, T. J. Smith, remarked,
“He’s a good one.” Marly
Knowe has won twice at seven
. furlongs from his last three
starts. His sire, Nilo (imp.), won
sprint races in England, and has
sired a winner of the V.R.C.
Derby and the A.J.C. and V.R.C.
St. Legers.
Should the Ascot (Brisbane)
track be heavy for the Strad-
broke, Melbourne galloper For-
dell might be one to remember:
he came from the middle of the
field at Caulfield on Saturday to
win the Lonsdale Handicap (six
furlongs) by the best part of two
lengths. In the Stradbroke he
has 7.10 (101 b. above the limit);
he had 8.13 on Saturday. After
Brisbane, Fordell might be set
for the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle ; he’s versatile enough,
and has been well schooled over
hurdles.
Two-year-old filly Mistomer
had her second success when she
won the Caulfield First La Trobe
Stakes at forlorn odds. Her
previous win was in the
Debutante Stakes, also at Caul-
field, early in October. The
filly is closely related to brilliant
galloper Estache and to Royal
Chief (N.Z. Derby and St. Leger
and the A.J.C. Metropolitan).
Atout Maitre (imp.), sire of
Mistomer, is the sire of winners
of more than- £45,000 in Eng-
land; his oldest progeny in this
country are three-year-olds.
They include a number of
winners.
Brisbane has a smart two-
year-old in Torquar, runaway
winner of the First Juvenile
Handicap at Albion Park on
Saturday. The colt’s sire, Tormie,
is a Bois Roussel product; his
dam, Resplendent, is a Fresco
(imp.) mare from Proto’s Pride
by Roger de Busli (imp.).
Ken Goodwin, 42, of the
A.J.C.’s staff —he’s been with the
club upwards of 20 years—has
been appointed handicapper,
filling the vacancy caused by the
death of lan Feaks. Ken has the
excellent personal backing of a
very close study of racing and of
work with various handicappers,
particularly with Fred Wilson,
who held the A.J.C. job for many
years.
+ 4-
Last year Melbourne, eventual
V.F.L. premiers, were not de-
feated till the 11th round. This
year, by overcoming Geelong,
also previously unconquered,
6.20-6.12, the Demons remain
the only unbeaten side after five
games. On Saturday, in the rain
and consequent heavy going
which marked all games, Mel-
bourne’s backs did a great job,
and held off Geelong’s strong
attacks in the last quarter. In
another battle-royal Essendon
also just managed to hold out
against Richmond, which put in
a determined last-quarter bid,
6.22-7.10. Hawthorn was too
good for St. Kilda, 6.12-3.9, Fitz-
roy toppled North, 8.15-7.6, and
Footscray found South tougher
than expected, 9.13-8.9. In the
only surprise Carlton, stronger
both in attack and defence,
socked Collingwood, 8.16-3.4.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon defeated Eastern
Suburbs 16-9 ; Easts’ forwards
won more of the ball all through,
but the backs could do little with
it, and failed to hold the speedy
Gordon backline. University
comfortably defeated Eastwood
28-19, after it had been 11-all
at half-time, and Manly was too
good for an injury-depleted
Parramatta, 17-8. The other two
games were pushovers St.
George whitewashed Northern
Suburbs (with the visiting
Springboks looking-on) 29-0,
and Randwick had a like-margin
win over Drummoyne, 35-6. On
Saturday the Springboks play
N.S.W. at Sydney Sports
Ground.
* * *
Queensland, playing grand
Soccer, twice defeated N.S.W. in
Brisbane. In the first game it was
2-1, and in the return affair 6-2,
the worst drubbing Queensland
has ever administered to N.S.W.
in 66 years of competition.
N.S.W. has a lot of talent avail-
able, not the least being the Eng-
lish professionals and other
migrants now playing in Sydney
Soccer; and the State selectors
are busily scratching the skull
trying to arrange this talent in
the form most likely to avoid
further losses when' Queensland
comes south next month.
* ❖ v
At Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday South Sydney defeated
Newcastle 27-18, in one of
several games between Sydney
Rugby League clubs and XIII’s
from country districts. The
game was fairly fast and open,
though not a brilliant spectacle ;
and the scratch Newcastle side
did well to hold Souths to 10-all
at half-time, though Souths
were obviously coasting part of
the time. One unfortunate result
of the game was that Test-cap-
tain Churchill broke his left arm
and will not be available for the
next State games and at least the
first Test against N.Z. on June 9.
# * *
In his second race in America,
at Fresno (perhaps, he says, his
last attempt at his world mile-
record), John Landy, with no
opposition from the other
runners and finishing streets in
front, again, ran the 4min. mile
(3min. 59.1 sec.). The other mile-
run in America on Saturday of
interest to Australians was won
by Jim Bailey, but, without
Landy there to push him along,
in the slow time of 4min. 6.4 sec.
“C.P.G.”: Flashback on the
Bailey-Landy mile clash in
America. Result of national mile
title in 1953—first, Landy ; dis-
qualified for interference, Bailey.
Result of the national half-mile
title in 1954—first, Bailey ; sixth,
Landy.
* * *
As one ipore pointer to the
dynamic cricketer Keith Miller
is, his equalling of Bradman’s
feat of making a double-century
on three successive first-appear-
ances in England. Braddy’s
three (236 in 1930, 206 in 1934,
258 in 1938) were all against
Worcestershire. One of Miller’s
doubles was against Worcester
(220 not-out in 1953), while for
the other two the Leicester
bowlers have suffered (202 not-
out in 1948 and 281 not-out this
year).
“Atala”: It’s reported from
England that wicketkeeper Gil
Langley has at last got hold of
a shirt that can’t possibly come
out after it’s been tucked-in.
Langley is notorious for his
flapping shirts ; in the Mailey-
Tailor testimonial-match in
Sydney early this -year he was
spoken-to by one of the umpires
over this tail-flapping. Still, a
kept-in shirt might cramp
Langley’s style ; it’s always been
part and parcel of him. Not so
well known (in some parts of
Australia, anyway) that a few
years back he was a star rover,
with Sturt and S.A.; and on the
football-field he was noted for
a similar propensity—always a
hanging-out jersey and untidily
rolled-down socks.
* * *
Lewis Hoad had no trouble
right through to win the Italian
singles-title ; in the final he beat
the Swede Davidsson, 7-5, 6-2,
6-0. He also won the doubles-
title, with Drobny. Australia had
four wins in the Eyetie titles, with
Mrs. Long taking-out the
women’s doubles with another
Australian, Mrs. Hawton, and
the mixed doubles with Ayala, of
Chile.
* * *
Peter Heard won the Concord
Cup, just downing Noel Wade
on the Concord (Sydney) course.
Heard had a two-round aggre-
gate of 145 —72, 73 (three over
par); Wade finished only a
stroke behind. Col Mitchell was
the only player in the representa-
tive field to par the course.
* * *
Lately there were some
mutterings in athletic circles
that Shirley Strickland should
be declared professional because
her photo was used to advertise
gaspers. She was cleared, but had
she been “declared” it may also
have been necessary to declare
Sir Frank Beaurepaire,
former Olympic swimmer, once
holder of several world-records,
the man who practically
organised Melbourne’s success-
ful bid for the 1956 Games. For
Sir Frank’s photo, large as life,
appears on the full-page ad. of
a big U.S. oil-company in the
magazine “Life’s” issue of
March 19 this year!
* * *
“Keima”: Queensland and
Australian Rugby Union winger
Garth Jones, who of recent years
has been the one Northerner
certain of Test-selection, is to
take part in the Olympic Games
torch-relay. Jones will head the
Rugby Union squad of six relay-
runners who will carry the flame
on the Southport - Brisbane
section.


Canecutting Companions
The Taipan
and Others
By
LES SUCH
EVERY time I read about
the deadly taipan in
Queensland I wonder who
he is and where he came
from.
We never heard of him in our
day in the North. And suddenly
everyone’s talking about this
deadly snake in North Queens-
land called the taipan!
We had tigers, blacks, browns,
coppers, death-adders, diamonds
and carpets, tree-snakes, grass-
snakes, water-snakes and many
others, but never a taipan did
I hear of in 10 years' sojourning
in N.Q.
I suppose the Yanks must’ve
brought them here during the
war.
I reckon there must be more
snakes to the square-inch up
there than in any place in the
world. And some of them are
monsters.
I saw a carpet that measured
28ft. 6in. in the Mulgrave Mill
yard. They had him in a box
with a wire-mesh, and tried hard
to wake him up to eat something,
But the old fellow was hibernat-
ing, and didn’t want to eat. In
the end, a live rat they put in
the box to tempt him with killed
him. (Mulgrave Mill about 1926,
if you want to check-up.)
In those days we often cut the
cane in the leaf, and green cane
is full of snakes. You have to
kick them out of your way.
Cutting a 40-ton-to-the-acre
crop of badilla in the leaf is like
fighting your way through a
jungle. Apart from the trash
(dead leaves), there may be burrs,
vines, sorghum (which cuts you
to the bone if you don’t watch
it), stinging-tree and other
pestiferous growths. The hook
on the back of the knife was
designed for dealing with all this,
although a good cutter never
used it. And in this jungle lived
all the pests that made a hard
life harder.
Still, as the subject is snakes,
we’ll pass the others with just
a mention —I mean the giant
spiders and ants that bite, the
rats and bandicoots, lizards,
beetles and what-have-you.
But the snakes !
There are green ones the color
of the cane-tops, purple ones the
color of a stick of badilla, fawn
ones the color of the trash. In
fact, I suspect some snakes
change color to match what-
ever background they happen
to be adorning, like a chameleon.
Anyway, the green bloke seems
to live in the cane-tops, and on
cold mornings you often had one
flopped over the back of your
neck, like a spare tyre on a
racing-cyclist, as you bent to cut
the first stool. Snakes are dopey
in the cold and lively in the
heat. And the purple bloke,
who seems to spend all his time
curled around a stick of badilla
like a doctor’s symbol, often
came up, when you dragged out
a stick of laying-down cane, to
look you straight in the eye at
about 6im-rangd.
You just got used to killing
them with a couple of panicky
swipes of the knife, and then
the ceremonial of cutting off the
head and burying it.
All except the carpet!
If you killed a carpet the
cocky would never speak to you
again, because the carpet is the
rat-exterminator, and rats eat
the cane. And the carpet never
does you any harm, although he
does eat your fowls rf you leave
them free at night.
We used to find them curled-
up asleep in the cane like a coiled
hawser a hundredweight of
snake!—and lift them in a heap
and carry them out on to the
headland.
You’d often hear the voice of
one of the gang, above the rattle
of the trash and the noise of the
knives, hunting a carpet out of
his way, “Go on —get out of it,
you sleepy old !”
There were three kinds of
black-snakes, as far as I
remember: the yellow-bellied
black, the red-belly and the
white-belly. I don’t know which
was the worst, but we reckoned
they were bad snakes.
The ones we feared most,
apart from the death-adder, were
the tiger and the copper. The
copper seemed to be a house-
snake, often to be found in the
rafters, or, as likely as not, with
a mate in the toilet. I knew a
girl who was bitten there; and
afterwards her father, a rough-
diamond from the Gulf country,
said, “The snakes is getting
ain’t they? Getting up on the
seat these days.”
It was with a copper-snake that
I tried-out the theory that a
human is not instinctively
frightened of snakes, as are
other animals. A kitten will
jump skywards if you drop a
piece of rope near it. A horse
will shy the first time it ever
sees a snake. So I cut the head
off a copper-snake on this
occasion and turned , the
wriggling body over to the small
son, who was just a toddler at the
tiipe. He went straight to it to
pick it up and play with it.
Did you ever skin a snake?
The slimiest job I know. You
pull the skin off like a stocking.
But you’d be sur-
prised how edible
the flesh looks.
Old bushmen
used to reckon
that a snakeskin-
belt was good for
a crook back.
There were many
crook backs
amongst the cane-
cutters, but I
never knew of a
cure ...
Ever hear of a
snake sliding over
a tin-roof above
your head? It’s
an unmistakable
sound and not
particularly com-
forting in the
middle of the
night—unless you
like snakes...
Snakes must be
ace mesmerists.
Otherwise they’d
never be able to get their
coils around a cat the way
they do. You know how
a cat sleeps with one eye open,
and you only have to lay a finger
on him when he’s asleep for him
to jump up wide-awake? We
were awakened one night by a
faint miaouwing from the vicinity
of the kitchen, and on investigat-
ing found one of the cats in the
coils of a six-foot carpet, slimed
over ready for swallowing. And
it was a devil of a job getting the
snake away without killing the
cat.
We did it eventually, and the
cat crawled away into a corner
and began licking off the slime
straight away. It took him a
week to get it all off.
Treading on a snake in the
grass is also unmistakable. It
happened to me once, going
down through blady-grass to the
bogey-hole wearing only footy-
boots and a towel. I jumped 3ft.
high and kept going, but he got
me—right on the ankle-pad.
I kept the boot as a souvenir
all that season to show people the
tooth-marks in the leather.
Another time I stepped over
a death-adder just on dark,
barefoot this time. These blokes
are usually found in stony
country, often along the foothills
of a range, and usually come
out just before dark. And they
won’t get out of your way like
most snakes. This one was right
across the pad between the cane
and the lantana, and didn’t
move. / did, though!
Once we treated a case of
snakebite in a somewhat rough-
and-ready manner. The victim
was a fellow-
canecutter who
liked working bare-
foot. He suddenly
let out a yell and
fell backwards
kicking a 3ft.
snake off the sole
of his foot. About
the third kick got
rid of it; then it
was lost in the
trash.
We put a tourni-
quet on his thigh
with a belt, and
went to work on
the horny skin of
his foot with a
caneknife, sawing
away until we drew
blood, while some-
one shot-off to ring
the ambulance and
fetch a razor-blade
and Condy’s.
Meanwhile a man
ran up with a
pocketknife, so we
dug in with that
until the razor-blade
and Condy’s came.
After they’d carted
him away in the
ambulance a field-
hand came up and
remarked that we
n e e d n’t have
worried, because it
was only a carpet.
“Who said so?” we wanted
to know.
“Well, there it is,” he said,
pointing to a dead snake hanging
over a stump. He’d just killed
it, and sure enough it was a
small carpet.
And when the victim reached
town the doctor opened him up
in another place on his foot!
But every night in the cane-camp
for a week afterwards that bloke
was picking liny white snake’s-
teeth from where they’d broken
off in the hard skin of his f00t...
Ever hear of a man biting a
snake? All right, I know what
you’re going to say that
Queensland rum must’ve been
mighty stuff in those days.
But I’d still like to know where
the taipan came from.
“Quo Vadis”: It’s the Sabbath,
5 a.m., and we’re chasing the
hairy dog that had bitten us the
night before. My cobber Rupert
knew his kennel. “Y* take this
Burma-road,” he said, as we
right-angled off the footpath and
sneaked furtively through a
brick-walled alley, its floor
bestrewn with bottles, tins and
sodden fag-packets. “Y’ can see
the kitchen-chimney when y’ get
through. If there’s smoke
coming out, Bung’s up, and we’re
right.” There was; we were!


S» - ■
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health.
Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Uissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAU IT! The simple instruction' card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore
■DISTRIBUTORS -»
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Svdney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide. °
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
v.
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"NO ORDINARY TYRANTS"
WITH its customary nice sense
of values, the British public
gave Messrs. Bulganin and
Khrushchev a predominantly
cool and polite reception on
their visit to the U.K., and,
oddly enough, it was the Labor
party which asked the most
embarrassing questions and
drew the angriest retorts from
the visitors—a point which must
have bemused the Russians as
much as it indicated their lack
of understanding of the British
temperament.
The British press, it seemed,
made rather more fuss than the
public by attacking or applaud-
ing the visit, or by attacking
each other’s attacks or applause.
Possibly the most sober and
arresting comment on the visit
was made by London “Time
and Tide,” one of the papers
which felt that the invitation to
Bulganin and Khrushchev was
a “political error.”
The comment is, incidentally,
an admirable example of “Time
and Tide’s” usual clarity of
thought and expression on many
international problems.
“After so much shouting and
tumult,” the paper noted, “it is
tempting to dismiss the visit of
Marshal Bulganin and Mr.
Khrushchev as an exaggerated
charade. This would be a mis-
take. It is a fact of the highest
significance that these men, who
attacked Britain so bitterly in
India and spoke in Moscow of
‘the foul things’ that capitalists
do, should have been invited
here, cheered by the crowds, wel-
comed by the Government and
received by the Queen. It
illustrates the whole tragic
history of our times.
“Forty' years ago Bolshevism
was the political eccentricity of
a few unsavory cranks. Thirty
years ago King George V
refused to shake hands with the
representative of a regime which
had murdered his relations. Six-
teen years ago Russian troops
helped the Nazis to carve-up
Poland and so precipitated the
Second World War. Today the
Communist leaders are the most
powerful men on earth, respected
and admired, invited to the coun-
cils of all the civilised nations.
“This change has not come
about because Bolshevism ha?
been rendered harmless. On the
contrary, the Communist
empire has expanded more
rapidly than Lenin dreamed
possible. It has not come about
because the principles of Com-
munism have changed. On the
contrary, every Communist
leader has assured us of his
unswerving adherence to those
principles, and the millions who
labor in the slave-camps can
testify that he was speaking the
truth. It has not come about
because of any improvement
resulting from Stalin’s death.
The regime is the same, though
the leader changes: to believe
otherwise is to fall into the
dreaded error of individualism.
It has not come about because
Messrs. Bulganin and Khrush-
chev are personally guiltless. On
the contrary, they worked
closely with Stalin and were
responsible for a massacre in the
Ukraine which might well have
fired the envy of Genghis Khan
“The reason for the change
is simple fear, or, as others
call it, realism. The Soviet
empire is too big and strong to
be ignored. War is not a prac-
tical expedient for removing it,
therefore we must negotiate. It
is unfortunate that we should
have to condone such an appal-
ling record of cruelty: it is
unfortunate that we should have
to offend the exiles who have
taken refuge with us: it is
unfortunate that we should have
to abandon the millions still
enslaved—but, what choice have
we?
“Friendship between nations
is, of course, a very desirable
thing. It is all very well to con-
demn appeasement and the
adulation of tyrants when such a
course has proved useless, but at
the time it often seems the only
prudent thing to do. But the
Communist leaders are no ordi-
nary tyrants, and the lessons of
history scarcely apply.
“The division of mankind
caused by world Communism is
the chief fact of our century,
and it may be of many cen-
turies. No other movement
since the rise of Christianity has
desired, let alone attempted, to
change the life of man so radi-
cally. There is no mystery
about Communism. Its sacred
texts are readily available: its
apostles have explained them
time and again. The only
mystery is that many in the West
still refuse to listen.
“No real Communist has dis-
claimed what seem to us the
cruelties and perversions of
Soviet life, because they are
integral, not accidental, parts of
the system. Communism still
believes in a principle which the
West seems to have abandoned:
that the world cannot live half-
slave and half-free. Both for
his own sake and for the sake
of his toiling comrades abroad,
the Communist must work to
spread his system over the whole
world. This he is pledged to
do by every means at his dis-
posal.
“Two things, follow. First,
that loyal Communists can never
be at peace with the capitalist
world. Second, that you cannot
negotiate with Communists by
any traditional method. Tyrants
in the past have been ready
enough to break promises for
their own advantage, but most
of them knew it was wrong.
Communists know it is right.
“We can make neither peace
with Communism nor war
against it. We can only man-
oeuvre for position. We seem
to have achieved something like
a physical deadlock in Europe,
but the real battle goes on in
men’s minds. The enemy
thrusts everywhere at our weak-
est points, exploiting our anxiety
for peace, our Leftward tend-
encies, our eagerness to believe
that Communists may not be as
red as they are painted. Every
inch he gains widens the gap
between England and America.
If that gap becomes too wide,
Europe is lost.
“The danger is very real.
The strength of the West lies
not in its armies or its bombs or
its industry, but simply in the
superiority of its moral position.
That superiority we seem
increasingly ready to abandon.
The visit of Marshal Bulganin
and Mr. Khrushchev is inevi-
tably a time of humiliation.
If the Government acts with
dignity and the British people
keep their heads, it need not be a
time of disaster.”
Ceylon and Singapore
The unexpected change of
Government in Ceylon and the
subsequent request that Britain
remove its defence-forces prob-
ably tempered British thinking on
Malaya considerably and had no
little effect on the talks in
London between the British
Colonial Secretary and the Chief
Minister of Singapore (David
Marshall) on the granting of
independence to that island.
The problem, as Edinburgh'
“Scotsman” puts it, is that “the
more freedom colonial peoples
get the more they demand, and
if only there were no danger of
losing it to less beneficent forces
than those of retiring colonialism,
this fact would be welcome:
“This is the root of the
problem in Singapore. There is
no guarantee that at some time
in the future the large Chinese
population of Singapore will not
come under the sway of Peking,
and thereby not only deprive
Britain of the use of the naval-
base, but introduce a direct
threat to the security of Malaya.”
How this problem worked out
in the case of Ceylon is well
put in a letter to “New York
Times” from Robert L. Buell,
who was U.S. Consul on the
island in 1933-37 and 1943-45.
Describing the result of the
recent elections as a surprise and
disappointment to most Ameri-
cans, he added, however, that it
was no surprise to anyone
familiar with the political
evolution of Ceylon.
It offers, he noted, “an im-
portant lesson which Americans
would do well to take to heart in
considering the world - wide
problem of colonialism, and I
feel qualified and impelled to
make certain observations on
some of the basic causes and
lessons to be derived from it”:
“In response to a clamor by a
relatively small yet vociferous
group of Ceylonese nationalists
“Washington Post”
“YOU WERE ALWAYS A GREAT FRIEND OF
MINE, JOSEPH.”
Herblock’s Pulitzer Prize cartoon, done at the time of Stalin’s
death, seems to gain added significance from the destruction
of the Stalin legend by his former collaborators.
early in the 1930’s a royal com-
mission, headed by Lord Don-
oghmore, was sent to Ceylon to
take testimony and to make
recommendations on Constitu-
tional reforms. In consequence
Ceylon was subsequently by Act
of Parliament presented with a
new Constitution, one of the
major provisions of which was
to grant island-wide adult fran-
chise, male and female.
“The democratic process of
electing representatives to the
legislature by adult-franchise
works far from perfectly.even in
advanced Western countries with
a high percentage of literacy.
In Ceylon, where 40 per cent, are
illiterate, intelligent use of the
privilege of the franchise is a lot
to expect.
“Political aspirants are certain
to win more votes by emotional
appeals than by endeavoring to
explain vital basic issues which
are for the most part beyond the
comprehension of the masses.
“What we have just seen
happen in Ceylon we can well
expect, or at least not be sur-
prised to see happen, in any other
colonial areas which on the
attainment of political inde-
pendence adopt democratic Con-
stitutions when the majority of
the population is illiterate.
“On the eve of his retirement
in 1944, after serving seven years
as Governor of Ceylon and 33
years in the British Colonial
Service, Sir Andrew Caldecott
said to me that he left with a
heavy heart. He knew that
Ceylon would be granted self-
government at the end of the
war, which would be to the
detriment of the population
because there were not a suffi-
cient number of persons in the
island experienced in the respon-
sibilities of government to ensure
competent administration.
“I observed that wise parents
do not allow their children to
walk before their legs are strong
enough, and inquired why this
major policy-change was to take
place at such a time. His Excel-
lency replied that the corner-
stone of British foreign policy
was Anglo-American friendship,
that the pressure of public
opinion in the United States was
to grant independence to India
and Ceylon, and that failure to
do so would result in resound-
ing cries of ‘British imperialism’
in the United States which would
place a very heavy strain upon
Anglo-American friendship.
“It is a human frailty to judge
others by one’s self. The
American Revolution and the
ensuing benefits to the people of
the United States understandably
make the Americans sympathetic
with all peoples who strive for
political independence. We
Americans are certainly entitled
to our opinions.
“But let us remember that the
background and composition of
the population of the American
colonies were in no way com-
parable to those of other colonial
areas in the world today.
“If we [the U.S.] are to con-
tinue to clamor for the end of


Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE!
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3m), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
vtrj.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Commonwealth of Australia
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 1951-1953
BRITISH SUBJECTS and NEW AUSTRALIANS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
18th MAV and Ist JUNE, 1956
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between Ist January, 1956, and 30th June, 1956,
inclusive
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Persons who are not- British Subjects, and Naturalized
British Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
of 18 years between Ist January, 1955, and 30th June, 1955
(inclusive), and were in Australia on 18th May, 1955.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
ANY PERSON WHO IS REQUIRED TO REGISTER AND WHO FAILS TO
DO SO IS LIABLE TO THE PENALTIES PRESCRIBED UNDER THE ACT
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act '
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and" persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.l)' are available at District Employment
Offices and Money Order Post Offices. Addresses of the former offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are'
in the Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it. 8
N5R5.93.46
colonial rule throughout the
world as soon as possible, let
us also remember that we may
be helping children to walk
before their legs are strong
enough and not be surprised if
subsequently they become bow-
legged, knock-kneed or have
their heads hurt by severe falls.
Such encouragement may also
estrange long-standing friendship
with their parents.”
Much of the foregoing com-
ment on Ceylon can obviously
apply to Singapore, where, as
Patrick Morrah comments in
London “Daily Telegraph,” 80
per cent, of the population are
Chinese, the bulk of them
illiterate and, also, not uncon-
scious of the pull of their home-
land, Communist or otherwise.
In further opposition to the
granting of independence to
Singapore, Professor C. E. Car-
rington, in a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph,” says that
“Singapore, as everyone knows
but no one says, was not created
by or for its present inhabitants
or their ancestors, but by British
merchants for the development
of world-wide Free Trade” :
“Its present inhabitants are
entirely dependent for c 'their live-
lihood upon the continued
existence of international trade,
and there is nothing that they
can do to direct it, unless they
choose to starve themselves by
stifling it.
“The geographical position of
Singapore ensures that it will
always have strategic importance
to the trading nations that are
the chief users of the port (first,
of course, to Malaya), and it is
absurd to suppose that the
citizens will ever be able to
control regional strategy.
“In short, Singapore has not
been, is not and cannot be a
nation-State ; it is the heart of a
great region, an. international
centre, a fortress, or it is noth-
ing. I do not know the precise
connotation of the word
‘merdeka,’ but if it means inde-
•pendence and implies self-
determination it is utterly irrele-
vant to the situation of Singa-
pore.
“Should the voters of that
small island be entrusted with
responsibility for their own
destiny, it would be well to ex-
plain to them that their freedom
will consist of a choice between
three courses: they may con-
tinue to prosper by facing the
fact that they live on the world-
wide Commonwealth trade
which they cannot control; they
may submit to the alternative
international organisation of
Chinese Communism; or they
may starve. The respective fates
of Hong Kong and Shanghai
might prove a useful object-
lesson.
“But may we not hope that
so vital a decision on a matter
of world-concern will not be left
to the voters in the city of
Singapore?”
Disarmament
Commenting on the disarma-
ment talks between the West and
Russia —“the basis is not one of
goodwill, or good faith, but of
mutual funk” Edinburgh
“Scotsman” suggests that there
COMPETITIVE COEXISTENCE. “ Daily Ma il ”
can be only two bases for agree-
ment, “mutual trust or strict
guarantees” :
“If we cannot have the first,
then we must secure the second.
Failing both, we must continue
to put our trust in our own
strength.
“Matching strength to strength
means constant uneasiness and
the imposition on both sides of
an immense and unprofitable
burden, but it does at least make
it unlikely that conflict will go
further than raised hackles.
“We are witnessing a demon-
stration of this unethical but
practical rule in the Middle East
at present. Egypt and Israel are
kept from each other’s throats
at the moment almost solely
because neither can be sure
which is really the stronger.”
Also commenting on disarma-
ment, David Lawrence, editor of
“U.S. News and World Report,”
holds that “no nation, large or
small, which has potential
enemies intends to disarm”:
“Our own [U.S.] armament, we
insist, is for defence. The Com-
munist Government in Moscow
says the same thing—no inten-
tion of attacking anybody, and
the only purpose of existing
armament is ‘defence.’
“Then why all the inter-
national conferences on ‘dis-
armament’? Who is fooling
whom?
“The answer is that nowadays
it is considered wise to give con-
tinuously the impression of
peaceful purpose. Any nation
which does not talk loudly today
about ‘disarmament’ feels it will
be accused of ‘warmongering.’
Hence, ‘disarmament’ talk is a
defensive manoeuvre in a pro-
paganda-war.
“Even the word ‘disarmament’
is a misnomer. No nation
intends really to throw away all
its armament and actually ‘dis-
arm.’
“The most that could be
hoped for is an international
agreement to limit the amount of
armament to reduce it in
certain categories.
“The peoples of the world
believe in self-defence as their
primary obligation. They will
never throw away their arms as
long as there is no means of
being sure of the good faith of
a potential adversary who has
ifepeatediy violated his pledges.
“The Middle East offers a
significant example of how little
progress has been made on the
theory of disarmament by the
major nations. Soviet Russia a
few months ago authorised its
satellite, Czechoslovakia, to sell
arms to Egypt. Now Israel wants
arms, and some Governments—
like France—will sell them to
her, though America for the
present will not. A threat of war
is in the air.
“Sending the Secretary-
General of the United Nations
to the Middle East to find a
formula for peace makes sense,
but the readiness of the larger
Powers to allow arms 'to be
exported to the rival sides
follows precedent also.
“Thus, while we talk ‘dis-
armament,’ we condone larger
armaments not only for the
rival nations of the Middle East
but for ourselves.
“It has been suggested that
‘inspection’ can be used to allay
distrust and prevent war. But
can it? How much can be
observed from the skies by
planes? Today all that is needed
is one bombing-plane and one
hydrogen-bomb, and the damage
that could be inflicted is
immense. Is it not easy to hide
a dozen planes and a dozen
«SS nbs?
I he answer to the problem of
peace is not in locking up
material things like weapons. It
lies in the mind that orders the
weapon used—not the weapon
itself.”
The death in hospital at
Djakarta of Captain Leon
Jungschlager has ended what
London “Daily Telegraph”
describes as a “major inter-
national scandal.”
Jungschlager, a reserve cap-
tain in the Netherlands Navy,
was charged over two years ago
with subversive activity against
the Indonesian State, and his
trial evoked criticism from all
over the world. ,
During the trial his counsel,
Mr. Bouman, was forced to leave
the country; clear documentary
evidence that he (Jungschlager)
was in Holland when he was
alleged to have been dropping
supplies to Indonesian rebels was
dismissed as “unreliable”; some
witnesses for the prosecution
admitted to receiving money and
other favors for their evidence.
When the prosecuting counsel
was asked about maltreatment
of prisoners he replied:
“There is naturally a differ-
ence between maltreatment and
maltreatment. When somebody
tries to keep statements from the
police and after a few blows he
would be willing to tell the truth,
those blows of' encouragement
have little significance.”
These and other aspects of the
trial brought a protest from the
Executive Committee of the
International Commission of
Jurists, which, as “Manchester
Guardian” notes, found that
Jungschlager “had not been
accorded a fair trial under the
principles recognised by civi-
lised countries.”
Jungschlager died a week be-
fore the date on which the judge
had announced he would pass
sentence, and, as “Manchester
Guardian” concludes, “it was too
late for remedies”:
“There are, however, a num-
ber of other Netherlands citizens
awaiting trial. Most of them were
arrested about the same time
as Jungschlager, more than two
years ago, and there have been
serious allegations that some
have been physically maltreated
in prison. The Indonesian Gov-
ernment should bring them to a
speedy trial, conducted with
scrupulous fairness. If for any
reason it cannot see its way to
doing this it should release them
and send them home at once.”
To which London “Time and
Tide” adds: “The fate of Leon
Jungschlager should be pondered
by all those good people who
helped to bundle the Western
Powers out of Asia.
“It should be pondered by all
those who are still agitating for
the surrender of New Guinea
and its absorption into the
Javanese empire.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Economic Dictation
Addressing Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce, the Prime Minister said that
increased sales-tax on motor-vehicles
would not “bring the world to an end.”
That may be true, but it avoids the
question of whether the community has
not surrendered a very vital freedom by
permitting Governments to levy indirect
taxes on items arbitrarily selected by a
Government department and thereafter
dubbed “luxuries,” a term coined by the
bureaucrats with pyschological astuteness.
Toys, cosmetics, jewellery, sporting-
goods, cars, cameras and hosts of other
goods that add to the fullness of life have
had the dread label attached to them, and
high rates of sales-tax applied accord-
ingly. Beer, spirits and cigarettes have
been in this position for years.
Apparently we have altered our con-
ception of why men work, why they
struggle to get on in the world, and why
they save money!
The old-fashioned ideas behind the
strivings of an ambitious man were to
provide for his family, acquire a home,
provide for his old age and his heirs, and,
if there was anything left, to use it in
sport, pleasure and the acquisition of
whatever type of possession took his
fancy, from birdcages to yachts.
At the same time he paid taxes on his
income and, having paid them, regarded
the balance of his cash as his own. If
he spent freely he helped to keep people
in employment. If he scrimped and
saved, his heirs usually made up for his
deficiencies after his death.
Why, then, has this mode of life —
common once to all except the nomadic
section of the community—come to be
regarded as “luxurious”?
If it is an economist - inspired
endeavor to have all behave like bees in a
hive, giving everything to the State and
keeping back nothing, it ignores basic
traits which even the Russians are realis-
ing cannot be eradicated from human
beings after almost 40 years 5f Com-
munism and dictatorship.
It is an assault on a man’s liberty to be
told by a Government that the motor-
car he hankers to own is a luxury, and
must carry a high sales-tax, while another
man whose ambition runs to a racehorse
can buy one tax-free, and ride it to work
or race it at Randwick as fancy dictates.
V Or when a father buys his son a model-
train, to be told he must pay tax on it
because it is a luxury, while a single man
can gaily spend the same amount of
money at a weekend-resort without fork-
ing out a stiver to Consolidated Revenue.
But the most odious feature of all is the
stated aim of economists and bureaucrats
to tax these goods beyond the reach of the
people for matters of policy rather than
revenue.
If a Commonwealth Government needs
money to implement the policy on which
it was elected, it should raise it by direct
taxation on income. It is tragic that the
people should have allowed successive
Governments formed by both major
political parties since the war to adhere to
powers that were then yielded voluntarily
in the national interest.
The authoritarian process now develop-
ing in our own times is quite alien to the
traditions that built this country and,
indeed, the strength of the Anglo-Saxon
civilisation in Britain, America and the
member-countries of the British Com-
monwealth.
Those who claim it is a process of
social evolution and shrug it off as such
show little knowledge of history and less
of human nature. Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
“Vista Domes”
The N. S. Wales Railways publicise
their scenic-routes; a pity they don’t
really cater for tourists by providing
“vista-dome” carriages. These are cars
with a pent-house roofed with clear glass,
where passengers can look up, down and
all around at mountain-peaks, gorges and
far horizons unobstructed by the confines
of a small window.
Technicians may argue that tunnels
prohibit this kind of rolling-stock, but
on lines where they have such carriages
in America there are many tunnels which
give only a few inches head-room to the
standard car.
Railway-routes within two- or three-
hundred miles of Sydney cover some of
the best scenery in the Commonwealth.
What could be more enjoyable than
travelling in a fast train and watching
the beautiful water-cleft country between
Sydney and Newcastle, the rugged Blue
Mountains, the sea-shores of the South
Coast or the Southern Highlands?—
C. A. L. (W.A.).
Singapore
Singapore seems to be the next British
possession in line for independence. With
due regard for the right of all peoples to
self-determination, it is hard to find a
sound argument, moral or political, for
the handing-over of this colony to the
mixed population of'Asiatics who have
either settled or been born there under
British protection.
These residents in the melting-pot of
Asia cannot be described in any way as
a nation. They are divided in culture,
religion, tradition and race. They have
little, if any, central loyalty,’ and many
conflicting racial interests. The Eurasians,
who are the only fused metal of the
melting-pot, are generally proud of their
standing as British subjects.
The existence of Singapore as an
island-city is due to British enterprise.
First developed by Raffles as a trading-
post for the East India Company, it had
previously been a barren, fever-stricken
pirate-hideout. It soon became the Mecca
of Asiatic migrants, a place where British
enterprise meant prosperity and British
Government meant security and a greater
measure of social injustice than in any
other Asiatic country.
The island is British by every right
known in international law. There is no
aboriginal population to claim
sovereignty by right of birth, the residents
of the island do not constitute a nation
in any sense of the word, and they have
no common language or central loyalty
except that which many native-born bear
to the British Empire.
There seems little doubt that the out-
cry for independence is the result of
educated Asiatics seeking power, either
for themselves or their national group,
It is more a struggle of ambitious men for
power than a struggle of a people for
liberty.
Modern liberalism has led to a wide
acceptance of the right of all nations to
rule, misrule or massacre within their
frontiers without interference by people
from a different continent. Many who
themselves possess little liberalism have
used this concept to push claims for
independence.
In this case there seems little justifica-
tion for pandering to such claims and
“ Congratulations , Dad! You got an ‘ A ’ for homework !”
surrendering a British colony’s free
immigrants to the mercy of ambitious
politicians, particularly in view of the
fact that even those claiming nationhood
admit they are not capable of defence
against outside attack or internal
upheaval.
Those of us who were in Singapore
during the Japanese occupation are well
aware of the great loyalty of most of
those born in the island —Chinese, Indian
and Eurasian. We were helped and
respected by them when we had lost all
“face” and were lower than the lowest
coolie. They risked bashings, torture and
death to aid us in our extremity, and
their proudest boast was that they were
British subjects. These are the people
who will be sacrificed to ambitious
pedagogues and Communist fanatics to
satisfy spurious claims to independence.
-L. F. (Q.).
Rebellion in the Ranks
I can’t agree with The Bulletin’s
view on the split in the ranks in Sydney’s
Anzac Day march (B. 2/5/’56).
Probably the main factor governing
the efficient functioning of the armed
forces is the loyalty of subordinates to
commanders. A plan of action may be
opposed or criticised right up to the time
a decision is made ; but from
then on it is everyone’s duty
to do his best to make it
work.
The R.S.L. Congress,
having listened to the argu-
ment of delegates regarding
the proposed alteration to
the Anzac Day service, took a
vote and made its decision.
Since the R.S.L. is the body
charged with organising the
Anzac Day march, it is the
only body capable of making
such a decision on behalf of
returned servicemen. The
duty of every serviceman was
then to honor the decision
and help make it work. If
anyone didn’t like it he could
use all his powers of per-
suasion to have it altered by
the next congress.
The Air Force Association
and other individual service-
men, including Lieut.-General
Gordon Bennett, chose to
defy this decision and cause
the split in the ranks which
they knew must follow. This
is disloyalty of a brazen kind, yet The
Bulletin apparently lauds it and chides
the R.S.L.
The decision to alter the form of
service may have been made to bring a
minority-group into the fold, but it was
not made by that minority. Yet The
Bulletin considers the R.S.L. executive’s
refusal to reverse its decision at the
behest of another minority “an extra-
ordinary attitude”! On that basis a dele-
gate to an R.S.L. Congress could, if he
disagreed with the decision of the sub-
branch which he represented, substitute
the minority-view which he favored.
Australia has no established Church,
nor could Australians be classed as a
religious people. The vast majority of
Protestants couldn’t care less whether the
service was conducted by a clergyman or
a layman. Consequently the minority
which organised the split in the march is
certainly less than the 23 per cent.
minority of Catholic ex-servicemen which
has been excluded since 1918.
It is as useless to say that the service
is non-denominational and that Catholics
are free to go as it would be to say that
teetotallers are at liberty to attend but
they must drink a glass of rum as they
enter the Domain.
The main lesson to be learned by ex-
servicemen from this sorry episode is that,
if unity (or the appearance of unity) is
to be preserved, loyalty to the command-
decision is as essential in peace as in
war— Spartus (N.S.W.).
Pilchards
As “Crunch” says (B. 2/5/’56), much
of Victoria’s pilchard-fishing is done at
Station Pier, Port Melbourne. The
catch, however, is not all used as bait.
On the days I’ve watched them on that
pier the fisherman have been offering
sizeable pilchards at 2s. a parcel—and
selling them alive as fast the nets could
drag them in. Also, every customer got
free verbal filleting-instructions thrown
in.
Pilchards are certainly good eating—
they could well be humble but tasty
substitutes for some fish which do not
suffer the opprobrium of “bait.”—
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Camels
Fifty years ago Australia was, after
Arabia and Africa, the third-greatest
user of pack- and riding-camels —largely
in the tropical and eastern areas of
Westralia, where exploration, develop-
ment and maintenance of the tougher
parts owed much —occasionally all —to
them. Now, except for a few on the
Canning stock-route and about the
Kimberleys, their work is finished.
Wild-camel herds bred from strays
have been added to during the last 30
years by the dispersal of unwanted teams.
These are scattered over their old
working-areas and through little-known
country in the Territory. Separate herds,
with young, number up to 40-head and
keep in good condition. There is no
reliable estimate of the total infestation,
but it is increasing.
As a pest, the camel’s threat is not to
pasture. He feeds high, and only a wild-
goat would compete for some of his
special fancies. Material damage is the
thing he does well. Using weight and
numbers, he knocks down and drags
fences and wrecks troughs and windmill-
stands. Corrugations on iron water-
tanks fit his itching ribs until he flattens
them and bursts the tank. To pastoralists
he’s more nuisance than menace, though
in the Nullagine district the damage has
justified a scalp-bounty.
The men who depended on the camel
in his working-days have some tolerance
for him yet; that could be simply because
he does not menace feed. However,
another unemployed pioneer, the donkey,
much better liked in his time, is now
hunted rigorously for spoiling pasture
and killing sheep.— Apemantus (W.A.).


i
$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
M
WELL
LININGS
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, USMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
Times have
changed-
so has
>
-i'
•V>c*
Ig™ 8
m. V-* W «V * ftOTTLcb
A a to' limi I*o-:
orak »'••« ••’*.> ’. • •’■ - •
' s£.ra« *?*■ :•'• v-
R&J6O >«
This new label distinguishes
NEW KJ,
K.B. has always been good—but now
with this new brew it is even better. 1
Buy it ... try it . . . you’ll like it.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
Migrants and Inflation
To what extent, if any, has the record
post-war flow of migrants to Australia
contributed to our present inflation ?
There are opposite schools of thought on
the subject.
Each migrant must be fed, clothed,
housed, and provided with electricity,
gas, water, roads and transport. He, or
she, must also be provided with the near-
necessities of life, such as entertainment,
tobacco, cosmetics and so forth. Many
migrants, like large numbers of Aus-
tralians, also demand refrigerators, wash-
ing-machines, cars and petrol, mostly on
time-payment. TV-sets will soon be
added to the list.
Many believe that, over a short term,
migrants in large numbers are more a
liability than an asset —that they cannot
possibly give in labor or other service
to the community the equivalent of what
they take out. In the long run, of course,
the account more than squares itself, but
where is the end of the long run?
The advocates of full-scale migration
ask how can we man our huge programme
of national development if we cut our
intake of migrants? The answer could be
that we may have to reduce our ex-
pansionist programme. It is all very well
to embark on huge schemes, but while
we are doing so our London funds —the
nation’s certificate of solvency—are fall-
ing at an unprecedented rate, proving
beyond doubt that we are living beyond
our means.— Bullswool (Vic.).
It is only 10 years since the Labor party
and the daily press constantly emphasised
that large-scale immigration was neces-
sary for defence and economic purposes.
Would either body now admit that the-
addition to our population of a million
people has made our defence secure
enough or supplied capital with all the
labor it needs?
No one denies that large-scale immigra-
tion has inflationary effects. So have the
40-hour week, inefficient management,
strikes and loafing on the job, but whereas
none of these contributes anything to the
country’s welfare, the migrant does —by
diligent application to his work.
The Bulletin (21/3/’56) offers the
real solution to inflation: “Productivity
per head must be increased, costs must
be brought down.”
From my observation, the migrant does
more than his share to boost pro-
ductivity.—Peekay (N.S.W.).
University Finance
The Council of the University of Mel-
bourne has decided that the maximum
number of students that can be accommo-
dated in the first year of the medical-
course is 255. The original proposal
allowed for admission of all Victorian
applicants and a handful of other Aus-
tralian and Asian students. The number
of students normally resident outside
Victoria was increased when it was found
that some Victorian applicants had not
qualified for admission.
If this is the present position, what will
happen in the next few years, when the
number of applicants is expected to in-
crease sharply? Not only will Victorians
of adequate ability be excluded but it
will be impossible to accommodate any
students from elsewhere. While the situ-
ation in Victoria is acute, a similar prob-
lem is reported existing in Queensland
and N. S. Wales universities.
Nor is the problem limited to the
medical-school. In Melbourne it has been
necessary to limit the number of agri-
cultural-science students in a particular
subject. Facilities for students who may
wish to take chemistry in various science-
courses are causing grave concern.
Besides our own Australian students,
surely we must provide for the education
of a limited number of Asian students?
There is a desperate need for qualified
men in Asian countries, few of which are
sufficiently developed to provide adequate
education.
Sir Charles Lowe, Chancellor of the
University of Melbourne for 13 years,
lately appealed for the establishment of a
University Grants Committee. His
appeal gives added weight to the un-
heeded representations of University
authorities for adequate financial assist-
ance. Unless some action is taken
immediately to provide funds for the
adequate expansion of the University’s
facilities a considerable number of Aus-
tralian children will have no opportunity
for tertiary education, or will be forced
to study in hopelessly inadequate con-
ditions. —MacD. (Vic.).
Interest-rates
One unmentioned feature of the,
monetary policy of the Menzies Govern-
ment is the effect of higher interest-rates
on the future value of life-policies,
superannuation-funds, savings-bank de-
posits and so forth.
The upward trend in the yields from
trustee investments, .most favored by
insurance companies, savings-banks and
superannuation-funds, means that these
holdings, which represent people’s
savings, will produce better returns. Prac-
tically every home will profit in some
measure from the increased revenue, but,
of course, the long view must be taken.
Thrifty people who have saved by any
of these means have been heavily
penalised by the low rates of interest
ruling during the past decade or so.—
C.B.M. (N.S.W.).
Diesels
Quoting the Tariff Board on the subject
of transport-costs The Bulletin com-
mented (4/1/’56) that “the hesitancy of
the N. S. Wales Government to move
with the times is shown by its reluctance
to put diesel-locomotives on its railways.”
Not only has the N.S.W.G.R. invested
in a lot of diesel equipment, both loco-
motive and rail-car, since the war, but
it has, in fact, been running diesels for
more tfian 20 years. Surely, then, the
railway people or the Government
advised by them are in the best position
to decide policy in such matters?
The Tariff Board is understandably
influenced by the extraordinary claims
made for the diesel by Commonwealth
Railways, where, if the figures are to be
believed, their introduction has cut about
75 per cent, off operating-costs.
But doesn’t the fact that they are not
rushing into large-scale dieselisation indi-
cate rather that the administrations con-
cerned, better able to assess the value of
such figures than the Tariff Board, are
not prepared to accept them at face-
value?
Points which any technical man could
offer the board include:
If direct savings of the magnitude
claimed were possible there wouldn’t
have been a steam-loco, built for 20
years.
The Trans., with its type of traffic, bad
water and lack of local fuel, provides
ideal conditions for diesel traction.
The figures quoted are hypothetical
only. Comparison is drawn between the
cost of operating the minimum possible
number of brand-new diesels running a
schedule specially tailored to- suit their
characteristics, and the assumed cost of
keeping going the large number of
initially unsuitable, worn-out and war-
weary steam-locos operating the slow
war-time schedule and burning poor
imported fuel at immediate post-war
prices.
The Commonwealth Railways have
gone to extraordinary lengths to boost
the diesel. It is unlikely that these claims
are any more realistic than those relating
to schedules.
These matters are quite important to
the national economy. Australia has now
a serious balance-of-payment deficiency,
and a growing surplus of good coal which
could help materially to reduce it. But
not by the use of diesels.—Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Hotel Service
One cause of inferior hotel-service in
Australia is the dearth of good cooks.
Publicans are forced to engage people
who have only slight culinary skill, and
who, armed with generously-bestowed
references, flit from job to job as mood
or fancy dictates.
Growth of population and need for
tourists demand better hotel-conditions.
A progressive step would be a' recognised
standard of proficiency in all branches of
cooking, to be certified by a diploma
awarded for passing written and practical
tests. Technical-schools with cooking in
their curriculum could issue such a
diploma.
Although catering is only one aspect of
hotel-management, its neglect could ruin
Australia’s chances of a remunerative
tourist-trade.— Arthur Falk (Vic.).


Every fatality amongst
lambs is a blow not
only to the grazier
directly concerned but
also to the country
since it represents loss
of a potential grower
of wool — Australia’s
most valuable export.
Numerous graziers
who mark and tail
lambs by Elastrator
Rubber Rings have
reported that by using
this modem hygienic
method lamb losses
have been consider-
ably reduced.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, 'Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N S.W.J Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1011.
VIC. : Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M., S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
O’LAND : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd-
-443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd-
-115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
[THERE has been a good, deal
of discussion lately about the
exhaustion, or stripping, of dips,
G. C. Brander, 8.5., M.R.C.V.S.,
who is head of William Cooper
and Nephews’ Technical Ser-
vice Department, here goes into
the subject in some detail .]
TT should be clearly understood
± that the problem of the
exhaustion of dips is no new
one ; it has been recognised and
dealt with for a number of
years. And aldrin and dieldrin
are merely new additions to the
number of relatively insoluble
insecticides which have been
used in sheep-dips and cattle-
dips for some time.
Experiments were made more
than 30 years ago to determine
the exhaustion-rate of sulphur
for dips; since then the pro-
blem has occurred with rote-
none (derris), B.H.C. (benzene-
hexachloride), D.D.T., and now
aldrin and dieldrin. In each case
the problem has arisen because
the insecticide to be used was
practically insoluble in watery
In our experience, the only time
exhaustion of a sheep-dip does
not occur is when the insecticide
used is in a complete solution ;
for example, sodium-arsenite in
water.
Our tests have involved the
use of wettable-powders, emul-
sions and colloidal preparations,
With each we have found that
exhaustion occurs, although wet-
table-powders have been proved
to exhaust least of all, and in
a more regular manner.
It should be clear, therefore,
that in whatever manner a water-
insoluble material is formulated,
it will exhaust in a dip-bath.
There are several causes of
exhaustion of a dip. One is a
direct filtering-action by the
fleece, as it removes the particles
of insecticide from the wash.
There is also a selective action,
in some cases, when certain
insecticidles have a particular
affinity for wool-grease. It has
not been possible to determine
how rapid this action is, and
whether it occurs after the
physical filtration of insecticide
particles.
There have been many investi-
gations, both in the laboratory
with wool-samples and in the
field with sheep in dipping-
baths, but as yet it has not been
possible to find the exact part
played by wetters, insecticide,
solvents, and so on, in relation
to wool and wool-grease. If there
is a direct action between wool-
grease and insecticide at the
time of dipping it seems likely
to be more acute when the insec-
ticide is in solution in an oil or
other solvent than when in fine
particles in a wettable-powder.
Another cause is faulty con-
struction of draining-pens,
shower-pipes, and the like,
Although all these factors are
important, they cannot be
allowed for separately, as the
problem will vary according to
the size of the bath used, effi-
ciency of mixing and dipping,
and so on. It has been our
experience that the only sound
way to deal with the problem
is to determine the exhaustion-
rates of each new formulation
by field-trials.
The problem, I repeat, is no
new one; and it has been dealt
with successfully, with a range
of insecticides, for several years.
But the success of replenish-
ment and reinforcement depends
on the manufacturer’s instruc-
tions being followed by the user.
Prior to any dip being
marketed by an experienced
manufacturer a series of scientific
investigations are made. These
are often time-consuming and
expensive. The insecticide is
tested for solubility, and it is
then decided whether it should
be used as a wettable-powder,
emulsion or colloidal prepara-
tion. Which form it takes will
depend on the likely mode of
use. An emulsion, for example,
may be suitable for jetting-
equipment, but a wettable-
powder may be more suitable in
a dip-tank.
The insecticide .is tested for
efficiency against a range of
parasites, both on and off the
animal; then tested for toxicity,
first on small experimental
animals, then on sheep and
cattle; and, at a later stage, the
preparation is tested in dipping-
trials, small tests first, followed
by large ones.
Once it is apparent that the
preparation is safe to use, stable
in a dipping-bath, and can be
maintained in a bath at an
adequate level for parasite-
control, it is prepared for
marketing. In many ways this
last stage is the most difficult,
as the manufacturer has to make
sure that the user understands
the level of insecticide that must
be in the bath.
One may ask: Why use insol-
uble insecticides when a water-
soluble one would save all the
trouble? The answer is that the
new insoluble insecticides have
advantages which more than
compensate for the problem of
dip-exhaustion.
For one thing, they are
remarkably non-toxic when used
in a dipping-bath. Many millions
of sheep have been dipped in
dieldrin without any ill-effects.
They are also effective at low
levels of insecticide. Dieldrin,
for instance, will kill sheep-lice
at as low a level as 0.0005 per
cent, of insecticide (or one part
in every 50,000).
They remain in the fleece for
many months, and are thus of
particular value for the preven-
tion of blowfly-strike, and will
kill larvae or pupae which appear
on the sheep after dipping. As
very little insecticide is needed,
they are not bulky to handle.
And they will not damage the
fleece.
In conclusion, it should be
clear that stripping, or exhaus-
tion, is not of itself a bad thing:
it ensures that insecticide will
remain in the fleece for several
mohths. But it does demand
considerable care and thought
by the manufacturer, in the
preparation of the insecticide, in
the investigations before and
during the field-.trials, and in
the framing of instructions on
the labels. s
It also means that the grazier
has to follow the instructions on
the label, and be careful. This,
in my opinion, is not asking too
much, as these new insecticides,
in their way, are as great an
advance in insect-control as
penicillin has been in the field
of bacterial - control. They
shouldn’t be misused.
G. C. Brander.
Heating Foods
“Docker”: Good husbandmen
classify and use their supple-
mentary-fodder according to
whether it is required for growth,
energy, maintenance, or heating.
During winter, it’s wise to con-
centrate on heating foods, such
as oaten-grain, and use hay for
bulk. As the oats are very nutri-
tious, too, the quality of the hay
need not be as good as the high-
protein sample needed for
growth and such special uses as
“flushing” before mating. At the
same time, the “filler” hay
should not be mouldy or weedy.
Tough Clearing
“Groper”: The jarrah- and
redgum-forests of the lower
south-west of W.A. must be
about the most difficult country
to clear in Australia. Anyhow,
that’s what the locals think.
A 42-h.p. bulldozer will knock
down and stack in windrows
about two-acres a day in average
country, if worked by a driver
with know-how. A newchum,
even if he has had experience in
earthmoving, dam-sinking and
the like, will make an unholy
mess of about half-an-acre in the
day.
Recently a neighbor had 12
acres (mostly rung) pushed over
and stacked, about 12 trees being
left which the ’dozer couldn’t
push, and which resisted all
efforts to pull with a Jin. wire-
rope. That took a week (six
days). The stacks were burnt,
and the remains pushed together.
Roots, branches and debris were
picked-up and stacked, and the
lot burnt again. It took longer
to do this than it does to write
about it—three men and a
tractor for three weeks, plus the
bulldozer for one more day.
Then the paddock was fenced,
rotary-hoed, and sown with 121 b.
mid-sea son clover to the acre.
The day after this was finished,
we had two-inches of rain, which
made the cocky smile. That
night there was a blow, and five
of the 12 trees came down, three
of them over the brand-new
fence. That removed the smile.
The much-publicised “ball-
and-chain” method would -be
quite useless in this heavily-
timbered country. In spite of the
difficulties and setbacks, how-
ever, the area of new country
brought under pasture during the
last three years or so is amazing,
especially to one who remembers
the old method of crosscut-saw,
axe, crowbar and sweat. Equally
amazing and encouraging is the
adaptability of the young
farmers in the district to modern
equipment, both in its use and
maintenance.
The pH Factor
«
“G.”: Since the farmer and the
scientist began to get along
together, both have found it wise
to add quite a few new terms
to their vocabularies. One which
the man on the land frequently
meets these days is pH.
Some, no doubt, are well
aware of its practical signifi-
cance without having much idea
of its actual meaning. Others,
I know, are more than hazy
about its meaning. I once had
occasion to provide at regular
intervals analyses of a water
which, week after week, showed
a remarkably .constant pH,
though its mineral constituents
varied slightly with the season.
After several months, the
recipient of these reports ex-
pressed his surprise that “the
permanent hardness appeared
remarkably constant.”
The pH, of course, is not
permanent hardness. It is the
“reaction” of a material, a
measure of its acidity or alka-
linity. An ion is an electrically-
charged particle, and all fluids of
which water is a component con-
tain some free hydrogen-ions and
some free hydroxide-ions. If the
hydrogen-ions are in excess, the
liquid has an acid reaction:
with hydroxide-ions in excess, the
reaction is alkaline. If both ions
are present in the same amounts,
the liquid is neutral.
The pH is a mathematical
function of the hydrogen-ion
concentration. The function is
such that pH may be represented
by any number from 0 to 14,
with a pH of seven representing
neutrality. A pH less than seven
indicates acidity; greater than
seven alkalinity. The degrees of
acidity or alkalinity are indicated
by the respective distances of the
pH number from seven. Thus
pH 4 is more acid than pH 6,
pH 8 less alkaline than pH 10.
The reaction of a soil in the
presence of water can be accu-
rately measured in a laboratory.
It is usually somewhere between
4 and 10. Most crops and
pasture-plants thrive best within
the range 5.5 to 7.5. tJnless
exceptionally high or low, pH in
itself cannot be considered solely
as a cause of poor growth, but,
taken in conjunction with other
factors, is a very valuable guide.
Three-day Sickness
“Magnoon”: When an
epidemic of three-day sickness
(more correctly called
“ephemeral fever”) spread over
eastern Australia 20 years ago,
dairymen and graziers regarded it
as just another of their troubles,
and thanked their stars that, at
least, its victims soon recovered.
The recent outbreak was more
serious. Many cows had two, or
even three, attacks, and quite a
lot never really got back into
production. A few died; in
springers, the disease regularly
caused the death of the unborn
calf. Now it appears that many
cows which seemed to make a
good recovery are going dry a
month or two sooner than usual.
But the worst feature of the
disease was its effect on bulls.
It affected them much worse, on
the average, than it did cows,
and many died. Of those that
recovered, a number are semi-
paralysed in the hindquarters.
Now it is being reported that
Some bulls thought to
have recovered completely
are sterile and/or impotent.
A black prospect, particularly for
stud-breeders, if we should get
fairly frequent epidemics in
future.
So far, no treatment is known,
except commonsense nursing of
infected animals. Even the way
in which the germ is spread is not
known for sure, although insect-
carriers are suspected. Various
“cures” have been claimed, but
fell flat when tested. Reliable
treatment is an urgent need-
even if it turned out to be so
costly that it could only be used
on valuable stud-animals.
At the height of the outbreak
the Queensland University vet.-
school announced that it was
sending a questionnaire to all
farmers, as the first step in an
investigation, but so far we have
heard no more of it. Whoever
does the job, a start should be
made now, before the details of
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/5/’56)
A fairly large sunspot-outbreak has appeared, and this may
intensify rains this month, particularly in the southern section
of the continent.
General rains should occur in most of N. S. Wales during
June, although the south coast and portion of the southern
tablelands may be confined to light rain. Heavy general rain
should follow during July, with a likelihood of flooding in the
western division.
Apart from light rain in the peninsula and north-west,
general rains should continue in Queensland during June;
these rains may be heaviest in the south-west, with the possi-
bility of renewed flooding.
June is likely to be a wet month in both Victoria and South
Australia.
The south-west of Western Australia should experience heavy
general rain, with good falls in the Fortescue and goldfields
areas, and moderate rain in the Gascoyne. The balance of the
State, poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


As much SUQGKB as before..
' V
X;
? •
but now se/f-contarnecf—the new
N EVERTI RE
FENCE CHARGER
For strip grazing, temporary paddocks, and all the other
occasions when a quickly-erected enclosure is necessary,
there s only one fence charger to consider—the new
lightweight Nevertire.
Carrying on all the tradition of reliability built by the
original Nevertire, this new model incorporates dry cell
batteries to provide a self-contained unit weighing only
1 41bs. All components are precision-built—the interruptor
wheel revolves on two bearings of hardened steel, and coil
md condenser are automobile-type for long, trouble-free
service. Before you buy a new fence charger, find out
about the new lightweight Nevertire!
MAIL COUPON TODAY FOR FULL PARTICULARS
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney.
P.O. Box 509 Phone: BU 5095
Branches: Lismore, Wagga and Hay
And at Stubbs St., Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
Please mail full
Fence Charger,
mark x in square.)
details of the new Nevertire
(If for school project j — j
Name
Address
. .KDCS4
Every successful bid for
HADDON RIG SIRES
Is a decisive step to another
highly-profitabie investment!
Every successful bidder secures Haddon Rig
Sires that are second to none for hardiness,
adaptability, wool characteristics and high
lambing percentages. Every buyer is thus
ready to profit by Haddon Rig’s 74 years of
unparalleled achievement in skilled breeding.
The Stud’s steadfast practices of mating “like
with like” and retaining the finest rams each
year, together with the fact that only three
classers have been employed since 1882,
guarantees that the most exacting breeder will
be more than satisfied.
At next month’s Sydney Ram Sales 124
Haddon Rig Rams will go under the hammer.
The six Special Stud Rams are again dis-
tinguished for their remarkably even quality;
and are considered to show even more develop-
ment than last year’s top rams. No. 81 x 714
is regarded as a particularly outstanding ram.
Forty Stud Rams and 78 Selected Rams form
the balance of a team that compares very
favourably with any sent down to Sydney.
All the Haddon Rig Rams have stood up
magnificently to drought and floods, and their
excellent condition again demonstrates that
this strain possesses superlative constitutions.
Whether you will be bidding in person, or
through an agent, remember that every buyer
of Haddon Rig Rams is an investor who takes
no chances.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN, NjS.W. Phone: Warren 74
this last visitation have faded
from our minds.
Hydatids
“C.H.”: Only the dog fed un-
cooked affected offal can be
infested with hydatids.
While humans and many
animals are susceptible, the
disease is most common in sheep,
cattle and pigs, the livers and
lungs of which can be massed
with hydatid-cysts without out-'
ward signs of infestation.
Hydatids is caused by a para-
site known in the adult stage as
the dog-tapeworm, Echinococcus
granulosis. This tapeworm is
regarded by experts as the begin-
ning of the life-cycle of the
parasite. White and very small,
it consists of a series of segments
which, when mature and contain-
ing ripe eggs, are passed-out in
the droppings.
If in any way swallowed by
humans or animals the segments
disintegrate and the eggs dis-
perse into the intestines. There,,
hatched into the larval form, they
penetrate the bowel-wall and,
entering the bloodstream, make
their way to various organs of
the body, usually the liver and
lungs. Once established, the
larvae develop the form of tape-
worm-heads, and cysts up to the
size of a walnut form around
them.
When the dog is fed raw
affected offal the tapeworm-heads
work into the bowel and within
two months develop into the
adult tapeworm.
Hydatids may be passed on to
man by contamination of food
by flies carrying the eggs, by
inhaling the dust from contamin-
ated ground, or by handling
infected animals. Town dogs are
rarely affected.
In N.S.W. the disease is most
common in the sheep-raising
districts. Badly-infested flocks
can bring about economic losses :
at the abattoirs affected organs
or carcasses showing cysts
throughout the body are con-
demned.
In New Zealand some years
back, when the spread of
hydatids cut the export-trade of
livers by some hundreds of
thousands of £s, legislation was
introduced making it illegal to
feed dogs on raw offal. No steps
were taken to enforce this
measure: this evidence, however,
supports the findings of N.S.W.
veterinary experts that the main
point of control on the farm is
boilmg all offal before feeding
it to dogs.
Ten-minutes’ hard cooking is
sufficient to destroy the parasite.
When this is not possible, affected
offal should be burned or buried
, deeply. No tapeworm-infested
dog can be condemned. Owners
too lazy to take these precautions
are responsible for the spread of
the disease.
Dogs can be cured of tape-
worm-infestation by special
treatment by a qualified vet., or
by dosages of areca-nut. This
should be given at the rate of
two grains for each pound-
weight of the dog. Best pro-
cedure is to weigh the dog and
then ask a chemist to weigh-up
the dose required.
Droppings of the dog should
be closely watched, and where
there is evidence that the infesta-
tion is persisting the dog should
be dosed again eight weeks later,
to prevent the tapeworm from
reaching maturity and laying its
eggs. If the dosage is neatly in-
serted in a piece of food the dog
fancies, it is swallowed without
fuss.
Two other common species of
tapeworm also infest the dog.
These will be easily recognised
by their large size, each of their
segments being larger than the
entire Echinococcus granulosis
worm.
Green-panic
“Myall”: There’s been a deal
of talk of late years about green-
panic, a grass which is a native
of Africa and is now firmly
established in many districts of
southern and central Queens-
land, as well as on the Atherton
tableland, in the north.
The grass has given excellent
results on forest-country with an
annual rainfall of from 28 to
30 inches, and it can stand dry
conditions to a remarkable
degree. During drought in 1946
Rhodes-grass was completely
killed, but the green-panic held
on, and came-away quickly as
soon as rain fell.
While it thrives on deep,
fertile scrub-soils, it will succeed
on poor land in competition
with the useless wire-grass
and spear-grass. Seed,is small
and light, and, as it shatters from
the head as it ripens, much,of it
is immature, and high-germinat-
ing samples are hard to get.
However, the seed matures after
being picked, and seed a year old
will germinate far better than
when freshly gathered. Sown at
51b. per acre, seed showing 5 per
cent, germination will produce
good stands under favorable
conditions. January to March
are best months for sowing.
A mixture of lib. lucerne and
41b. panic to the acre, when
grown together, will give a very
good balanced-ration. While
frost cuts the top-growth, the
roots survive and spnng into life
with the first spring-rains.
A trial plot of this rapid-grow-
ing palatable grass should be
sown on all Queensland farms
where winter frosts are not too
severe, and annual rainfall is
about 28 inches.
Water and Fertility
“Palo Alto”: Recent increases
in the area under flood-irrigation
and spray-irrigation in southern
Australia point the need for both
improved-pasture species and
high fertility to take full
advantage of the water.
Australian scientists emphasise
the serious waste of applying
water to native grasses, particu-
larly on ungraded ground.
Lucerne, or an annual pasture
such as Wimmera-rye and sub.,
or a perennial mixture such as the
basic white-clover and perennial-
ryegrass, plus cocksfoot, H. 1.-
rye, and paspalum or prairie (if
wanted), is necessary to make
watering worth while.
Particularly where irrigation
becomes available to worked-out
soils, such as part of the Murray
Valley Irrigation Area centred at
Cobram (Vic.), adequate fertility
must be restored before water
can do much good.
In Missouri (U.S.A.) experi-
ments, yields of corn were
actually lowered when water was
added to potash-deficient soils.
Dr. George Smith, of Missouri
University, concludes that much
of the benefit from supple-
mentary irrigation results from
the stimulation of the breakdown
of plant-foods in organic-matter.
In many cases the proper
nutrients can be as beneficial as
additional water. In dry seasons,
the presence of adequate plant-
foods is generally more beneficial
than was formerly thought.
Concerning the increasing use
of supplementary water (as on
many Australian properties)
Smith warnf; “Before jbuying
expensive equipment farmers
should make sure that the new
operation will give sufficient
returns over a number of years to
justify the cost. In some cases
it may be-more profitable to
alter cropping-systems or farm-
enterprise, rather than add irriga-
tion-management to the farm-
plan.” •
Farm Hints
“Pancho”: On land which is
too steep to cultivate for forage-
crops, try pampas-grass for extra
feed. It is not particulady
nutritious, but will at least give
stock that “full” feeling and keep
them alive until pasture-growth
can support them.
“Berry”: Make sure that the
juices from silage-stacks and
silage-pits are drained well away
from pastures and trees —these
can be killed by the acid-exudate.
For same reason, never build a
bun-stack or wedge-stack on the
uphill side of a shelter-belt.
“Bill C.”: Make sure you get
the raw oil when buying linseed-
oil for mixing drenches for a
horse. Many a valuable nag has
been killed with boiled linseed-
oil, which contains lead.
“Vic.”: Bread can be kept
at top quality if stored at a
temperature of 10 degrees Fahr.
Zero Fahr. is needed for longer
storage. Bakers in the U.S.A.
are showing an increased interest
in commercially frozen bread,
as it means fewer losses from
unsold loaves and elimination of
costly night-baking.


double-barrelled gun old Tren-
ton had given him.
“Good God! You’re not
going to shoot it with that, are
you?”
“What else?”
He walked across the road
and over a short patch of grass
to the water’s edge. Then he
put the gun to his shoulder and
took careful aim.
“I suppose you know all you’ll
get out of this will be a singed
feather, not a duck?” Gordon
asked, hoping to divert him from
his purpose.
“You wait,” Neville answered
confidently.
“A sportsman never pots at a
sitting bird,” Monica called from
the utility.
Neville grounded the gun.
“By God! You’re right! I was
forgetting that. Must get it on
the wing. What do Ido to make
it airborne, or whatever you call
it?”
“Sing to it,” Monica said
tersely.
Neville did the next-best
thing. He Jet out a roar that
rushed across the water, hit some
barrier in infinity, and came
bounding back with redoubled
force. The duck took flight, and
Neville raised his gun with a
“Hah!” of satisfaction.
There was an ear-shattering
bang and, miracle of miracles,
the duck swerved up in the air,
and then plummeted in a
straight fall to the water.
“No singed feather about that
bird,” Neville said triumphantly,
watching the white splash it
made as it hit the water.
“Lucky shot,” Gordon said.
“Lucky nothing!” Neville
scoffed, and took off his coat.
Then, to Gordon’s astonishment,
he took off in quick succession
his tie, shirt and singlet, undid
his trousers and stepped out of
them clad in only a pair of brief
underpants.
“Here ... I say . . ,
Monica . . .” Gordon expostu-
lated.
“I’m going to get it,” Neville
explained.
“But”
But Neville was taking his
shoes and socks off, and then he
put his wristlet-watch on a large
stone near his heaped clothing.
A run, a terrific splash, and he
was no more than a head and
two strong arms swimming
towards his prize.
“Excelsior! ” Monica called to
Gordon from the utility.
“Never a dull moment,” he
called back. “Just as well there
aren’t any bears or elephants oh
the way.”
A LTHOUGH it meant sitting
in an uncomfortable posture,
Monica turned her back as
Neville reached the shore again.
He came up to Gordon, his
Strong-limbed, muscular young
frame dripping with water, and
held out the soggy, mangled
remains of the duck.
Gordon inspected it, and
hadn’t the heart to say more
than: “Yes, it was a beauty,
wasn’t it?”
Neville nodded in silent,
proud agreement, and walked
over and placed the duck
reverently in the back of the
utility.
“My new landlady doesn’t
know it yet, but she’s having
roast-duck for tea.”
Gordon lifted his hat and
wiped his forehead. If she can
find something in that mess to
roast, he thought t' himself. He
sighed.
“Hurry up and get dressed.
We’re behind in our timetable.
And if we see any more ducks
on the way they—er—they
remain ducks, get it? We can’t
lose any more time.” j
Neville’s interest in ducks had
subsided, if The fact that he
didn’t mention them again
within the next hour was an
indication. ■
Now his conversation, in
between vocal bouts, was all
about A 1 bury. How big was it?
many cofies did it sell? Were
there any nightclubs in Albury?
What sort of beer was sold
there? The ceaseless flow of
questions, it seemed, could only
be brought to a halt by their
arrival in Albury itself.
“We should be there in about
twenty-minutes,” Gordon an-
nounced, hoping his voice didn’t
disclose the relief he felt at the
proS pe C t.
“Hey!” Neville yelled.
“What do you think I’ve done?
My watch—it’s back there on
that stone!”
Monica groaned. “Oh ...
no!”
“Yes, We’ll have to get it.
I just / can’t lose that. I’m
terribly sorry, but do you think
Z fr* S° for it? ” he
sk s d Gordon.
Gordon grew red in the face
from the restraint he imposed on
himself. He let out a deep
breath, and even managed a wan
smile as, slowing down, he made
the right-hand turn to take them
back the way they had come.
“This means, young man, that
we arrive at Albury just two-
and-a-half-hours later than
planned. I do hope that doesn’t
matter to you.”
“Not in the least,” Neville
hastened to assure him. “I
don’t have to”-* —
Monica, seeing the way things
were heading, hastily involved
Neville in a conversation on the
merits and demerits of Sydney.
Two-and-a-half-hours late, as
Gordon had gloomily foreseen,
they finally pulled-up in Dean-
street.
“Well, here’s Albury,” he
announced. “Now what?”
“I guess it’s goodbye, then,”
said Neville, and he opened the
door.
“In a hurry, isn’t he?”
Gordon said to Monica as
Neville off-loaded his case, his
gun and his duck from the back
of the utility.
“I think he’s sorry about that
watch,” Monica said tactfully.
“He really needs someone to
look after him.”
Gordon stared at her in
amazement. “I’d say he’s
pretty good at looking after
himself.”
“Oh-—you don’t understand
what I mean. But it was a nice
break having him at home for a
couple of days, wasn’t it?”
“Yes —I agree with you on
that.”
At that moment Neville came
to the front of the utility, his
case in one hand, the gun and
the duck in the other. He put
his head through the side-
window.
“Oh, well —thanks for having
me,” he said. “Now it’s ‘Look
out, Albury—here I come! ’ ”
That was all. He walked off
then.
HTHEY watched him through
the windscreen in silence,
saw him turn as he reached a
corner and wave the hand hord-
ing the gun and the duck. Then
he was gone. The old was
something to be buried, the new
something to be savored with an
unspoilt palate.
Monica slumped back in her
seat.
“Do you think he’ll be all
right?” she asked anxiously.
Gordon patted her shoulder
reassuringly. “I guess so. He’s
armored against all of this
world’s knocks by his youth.”
He started-up the motor, and
then added in a voice so low
that Monica could barely hear it
above the sound of the engine:
“It’s an armor only time can
penetrate.”
having a neater and greener lawn
than anyone else in the same
street.
Flanagan, as I said before,
seemed to be under self-hypnosis
during most of his attempt. This
could be why he did not see any
“visions.” Ruenalf saw plenty
of them. Either that, or he is a
good actor and a good raconteur.
At one time he claimed that he
could see creatures crawling over
hi<; trainpr’c • at annttior
tto wnlhbaU-
rti h!7 wn l!,!! ": ;
t^ ad “ v «* £
A 1 ® saw snakes
X t ¥
Now, Flanagan, as far as pos-
Slble , either kept his eyes off the
° r shu £ hls u mental eyes to the
°hject as he hit it. Ruenalf, in
making his first attempt, did not
know enough to do this. So he
became hypnotised by it. Some-
times the ball seemed to grow a
tajl Sometimes the ball dwindled
in his eyes to a mere thon of
leather- sometimes it swelled to
an enor ’ mous s j ze ‘
‘ A fh ■ ' ■ rWImW
bulses which disanoeared when
be ? ried t bit th b Sometimes
the ball seemed t 0 be partiv full
of water s^X when to hi?ii
his punches seemed to have little
effect.
Sometimes, when he hit the
ball, it seemed to fly away down
to the end of the hall, and then
start back. While he was waiting
for it to come back sp that he
could punch it again, it hit him
in the face. The same thing
happened when it seemed to fly
right out of the door and over
the sea.
So much for the punchers. They
have reasons for doing what
they do; money, desire to do
something better than anyone
else. But the real puzzle in these
attempts is the audience. If 1
had not had to go to the attempts
as part of my job, you wouldn’t
have dragged me near them. But
hundreds of people did go there
voluntarily, night after night, and
stay for hours and hours.
One old woman got to the
scene around six-o’clock each
night, immediately after she had
got the family’s tea ready, and
stayed there till close on mid-
night, just gazing, with her mouth
half-open. What she got out of it
I don’t know. But she must have
got something. Then there were
the teenage girls who hung
around the punchers. The attrac-
tion of a well-muscled male body
(and both Ruenalf and Flanagan
are good-looking) was obvious.
The sporting crowd, who must
have a contest of some sort to
watch if they’re to be happy,
came in their dozens, of course.
Their presence was not to be
wondered at. But you would
probably have to be a psycho-
logist to analyse the reason for
the rapt attention of ordinary
people. One professional man
said to me, “I came to jeer, and
remained to cheer. I don’t know
what it is, but this sort of thing
does get you in, doesn’t it?”
It does. I looked on the whole
thing as a not very pleasant
assignment, but I was one of the
men who held up the board for
Ruenalf to punch the ball when
he failed oh his second attempt.
I went home and dreamed about
him when he was in the middle
of his first, and the first thing
I thought of in the mornings
when I woke-up during the three
attempts was how soon I could
get down and see if the puncher
was still punching.
Just the same, I still hope that
if any more record-attempts are
staged they are not staged in
Redcliffe!
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 382
Across
I—Weapon telephoned after an
invitation to express your dis-
approval of Yours Truly. (9)
6—Weapon which lacerates bears.
(5)
9—Weapon telephoned after an
invitation to express your
approval (romantically) of Yours
Truly. (9)
10 — International service which is
semi-successful without a tenant.
(5)
11— Ran back to measure a N.S.W.
country town near Camden. (8)
12— Cast through the west and the
north. (6)
15 — Composer with state neckwear.
(5)
16 — Arrest McNab’s father? (3)
18— Frequently. (3)
19— A figure that is expected from
the dishonest? (3)
20 — Pull in two. (3)
21— Interest. (5)
22 Piano shelf to make a promise
gage. (6)
23 Appeased the donkey whose
senility you accelerated. (8)
26 —Go back into the street with this
scoundrel. (5)
27 Before the street on a Melbourne
suburb. (7)
28 — Conceals the tannery’s intake.
(5)
29 — About to spoil a majestic
character when taking some
notice. (9)
Down
1— Ceremoniously dismissing an
archer’s equipment in toe-trouble.
(6, 3)
2 Hum nothing obstinate and with-
out humor. (5)
3 Always batting No. 11 before
the Grand National sibilant is
spelt in perpetuity. (15)
4 A parent sprinted like this
emblem of immortality. (10)
5 Scrambled egg around a pledge
plum. (4)
6 Keaton joins an Australian
literary magazine. What a blow!
(9, 6)
7 The dance spectacles Kelly filled
out. (9)
8— East with a figure swallowed. (5)
13— General appearance’s side is to
prepare to leave like a loco or an
old liner. (3, 2,5)
14— Bandy delivery urged. (3-6)
17—Giving a cognac flavor to mill
offal before passing away, (9)
22—Swan goes by this saucy aspira-
tion. (5)
24 Gentile unroofed two djinns. (5)
25 — Box knocks up some of the
rigging. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 381


Nevil Shute
BEYOND THE BLACK STUMP
AN EXCITING NEW NOVEL WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN OUTBACK BACKGROUND
At all booksellers - - 15/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
John Flynn Memorial Edition
FLVXN OF THE INLAND
by ion L. Idriess. Tliis memorial
edition marks the opening of the John
Flynn Memorial Church at Alico
Springs. This book, which is the most
popular of the works of lon L. Idriess,
has sold over 90,000 copies. Illustrated.
25/- (post 9d.)
AUSTRALIAN PAGEANT
edited by P. R. Smith—an anthology
of short stories and 'extracts from
novels, newspaper reports, biographies,
personal letters and an explorer’s diary
—depicting in various moods life in
Australia and Australian men and
women from pioneering days to the
present. 13/6 (post 7d.)
You’ll find these and all the books you want at . . •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
Available from all booksellers
THE SIXTH OF JUNE
by Lionel Shapiro . . 18s. 9d.
A novel of love and war. To rival “H.M.S. Ulysses.’ A first-rate
novel. Descriptions of fighting have never been bettered.
—Nancy Spain, London Daily Express.
Collins
Publishers
1906
L
1956
EVERYMAN’S ILIBRARY
The Golden Jubilee and the publication
of the thousandth volume of the most
comprehensive series of its kind, ranging over
all great literature in, or translated into, English.
*
PUBLICATION MARCH 29.
No. 1000 ARISTOTLE’S
METAPHYSICS.
Edited and translated by John War-
rington. Introduction by Sir David
Ross. A work recognised as of basic
importance in the history of civilisa-
tion, here rendered for the first time
as easily comprehensible as possible to
the-Everyman reader 10/9
No. 999 MANZONI’S
THE BETROTHED.
I Promessi Spoui, translated by Archi-
bald Colquhoun. The first and greatest
of all Italian novels in the translation
which has contributed more than any
other single factor to the recognition
in the English-speaking world of
Manzoni’s greatness, 576 pages. 10/9
Among many other new volumes and editions are: the Plays of Aeschylus, the
Plays of Euripides (2 vols.) , Everyman and Medieval Miracle Plays, Balzac’s
Eugenie Grandet, Smollett’s Peregrine Pickle (2 vols.) , Stow’s Survey of
London. . .and coming shortly, Milton’s Poems and Coleridge’s masterpiece
Biographia Literaria, both in new texts. . . . There are in fact already 250
volumes in the larger format at 9/3 or 10/9 each, and more than 400 in
the original size at 7/9 each.
Biography, Fiction, Poetry, Drama, Travel, Philosophy, Religion ;
these are some of the sections covering 500 great authors’ works, all
detailed in the 36-page catalogue which may be had free.
Buy the books from Booksellers throughout the world.
-K
J. M. DENT & SONS LTD.
ALDINE HOUSE, BEDFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.
Publishers of Everyman’s Library.
Australian agents: Georgian House Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 52, Albert Park, Vic.
began his voyagings from an ancestral
home which was a sort of Europeanised
Australian station of the lusher variety
set down in country not unlike the
Darling Downs, but polished by long
years of agriculture and tending and
moulded for gracious, if somewhat wild
and horsey, living. He got to know all
the greater and more glittering capitals.
He toured the world —even visited
Australia —in 1892.
He returned to become aide-de-camp
to the aged Emperor Francis Joseph,
and so carries to the present day
intimate memories of the inner life of
the Austrian Court before it was blown
away on the winds of Sarajevo. Here
he sets down detail which must be
infinitely precious to historical novelists
of the future —so far they have
neglected badly a regime well worthy
of their Parkers and Swans. He fought
—he was in high command—in World
War I. He was wounded at the Battle
of Otranto.
He weathered the turmoil of the
break-up of the last vestiges of the old
Roman Empire and kingdom of the
Iron Crown and presently found him-
self Regent of his country, virtually a
King without a crown, living amid
Royal pomp, steering his fiery and now
poverty-stricken little kingdom into
friendship with England, rejuvenating
it with poor resources and not much
outside help, though with good friends,
like Lord Rothermere, abroad.
He remained in position as others
toppled off their thrones or seats of
power, a sort of symbol of Hungarian
tradition. He survived the intrigues
of Russia and the bullyings of Hitler
until World War II and a stage at which
the pressure became too much and
Nazism dominated the country as a pre-
lude to its rape and pillage, the worst
since the days of the early Christian
centuries, brought by the “rescuing”
Russian armies. He lost his home, his
work, his son, his country, his every
interest. He found himself at the end
of the war cooped among Nazi
criminals, due for trial by the Allies.
One would have imagined, on cir-
cumstantial appearances,. that that
would have been the end of him. But
again he justified himself and was
allowed to retire to his simple house in
Portugal at Estoril, there to write his
book, a valuable footnote to history,
embodying the narrative and viewpoint
of an historic character who has quali-
ties very obviously out of the range
in which most of the twisted come-
quick - and - fall - quick “statesmen”
deal.
His is a sad book, but it is a restful
one to read after the mazes of excuse
and documentation which normally
pass for memoirs in the currency of
reminiscent dictators and fallen idols.
E.
Scientific Detection
Henry T. F. Rhodes, who studied
forensic science at the University of
Lyon under Dr. Edmond Locard, pupil
and friend of Bertillon, has written a
life of the “Father of Scientific Detec-
tion,” Alphonse Bertillon (Harrap),
with the aid of the Bertillon family and
their family-papers, and of the French
police and their files.
As a “life” it thins-out considerably
after Bertillon’s marriage, being prac-
tically restricted to an account of his
public career; but the story of his child-
hood and youth is full of excitement.
Bom to a studious doctor who had
become one of the pioneers of the new
science of demography, he was
expelled from school after school, being
anxious not to learn. Perhaps his best
achievement was his last, when, having
been discovered brewing chocolate,
thick and hot, over a spirit-stove in
his desk and distributing it in egg-
shells to his classmates, he bopped the
accusing master over the head with a
Greek dictionary.
Yet with the aid of his learned grand-
father, Dr. Guillard the demographer,
he studied well enough to matriculate
at the late age of 20; and then departed
to England, where he set out, of all
things, to teach French in a boys’ school
—while he learned English. After a
few years he was beginning to make
himself understood, when he was
recalled to do his French military
service. He became secretary to the
colonel, which in time earned him the
rank of corporal; and, as a protest
against army life, he began to study the
proportions of the human skeleton,
using the anthropological measuring-
instruments he had seen employed in
his father’s and grandfather’s demo-
graphic researches.
Out of the army at 26, too old to
start at a university, he saw that he
must take even the humblest job offer-
ing to earn his living. His father, who
had given good service as mayor of the
Fifth Arrondissement during the Ger-
man occupation, and who as a doctor
and professor of statistics had some
influence with the police-department,
got him a clerkship in the Prefecture
of Police: a clerk of the 20th grade.
Yet after eight months he put in a
report that the forms on which he had
been tabulating particulars of arrested
men were useless for purposes of identi-
fication, and that he had devised a
series of measurements which would
distinguish any one man’s body from
that of any other man. He approached
the Prefect; was, as always, verbose and
tactless; and was warned against inter-
fering with the machinery of justice.
The Prefect then wrote to his father,
suggesting that young Bertillon should
see a brain-specialist and remarking
that any more of it and young Bertillon
would be fired.
But when the worried old father was
shown the young man’s suggestions for
a new form of identification he saw
that the boy had something. Bertillon
went sullenly on with his work and his
researches; in 1881 he helped a half-
blind blonde Austrian, Amelie Notar,
across a street, found that she could
write beautifully, which he could not,
and made her his unofficial secretary.
She copied the indecipherable manu-
script of his book, “Les races sauvages,”
and later became his wife.
A new Prefect, Camecasse. came to
the department; old Dr. Bertillon
pulled strings and got his son an inter-
view with the new man, and so
Alphonse Bertillon was given two
clerks and three months “to identify a
recidivist solely by your own method.”
The French police were, in fact, up
against a tough problem. The good old
method of branding convicts so that
they might always be recognised again
was no longer practised; and the offer
of three months to identify one man
shows how little certainty they had.
His two clerks measuring heads,
middle-fingers and little-fingers, and
Amelie writing-out the cards, Alphonse
Bertillon persevered until in February,
1883, he was able to tell a man called
Dupont that he had been arrested under
the name of Martin in December, 1882,
for trying to steal empty bottles. As
though to mark this triumph, his father
died a few days later.
That year he and Amelie recorded
7336 measurements and identified 49
recidivists; and in a few years
Bertillon was famous. By 1888 he was
Chief of the Service of Judicial
Identity, with a munificent salary of
£l5O a year, and had begun to instal
his photographic department and his
crime laboratory.
Bertillon, who could turn an apparent
identification into ridicule by merely
asking the accusers to look at the ears,
and who was the first card-index detec-
tive, is curiously overshadowed in the
temple of fame. He put all his money
on his anatomical measurements,
regarding the new English method of
fingerprinting as only an auxiliary to
them. He used fingerprint-evidence; he
invented some of the best means of
developing latent prints*; but “to his
life’s end” he doubted the proposition
that no two finger-patterns could be
identical.
Then, again, he came down on the
wrong side of the opinion of posterity
over the Dreyfus case. In the most
ingenious manner, producing an
example himself which shows that he
might have done well as a forger, he
set out his contention that the famous
“bordereau” was traced. Then he went
on to conclude that it was an “auto-
forgery”; i.e., that Dreyfus had traced
his own writing through the thin paper
of the “bordereau” so that it would
seem that someone else had tried to
forge it!
Bertillon persisted with this theory
through trials and retrials, to the dis-
may and anger of his friends and the
amusement of expert mathematicians,
who tore his theories of probabilities
to shreds. But the honors heaped upon
him by his own and foreign Govern-
ments are a tribute to his success as
a practical police-scientist; “for as a
technologist,” says Mr. Rhodes,
“Bertillon was second to none in
France, and he probably had no equal
in Europe at that time.”
As to his private life after his
marriage there is nothing: except a
scene early in the book of “poor crazy
Amelie,” after his death, burning a
packet of papers which, says Mr.
Rhodes, might have thrown light on a
pre-marital love-affair with a Swedish
lady of importance.
So much for a man who will live
for ever in the faces of other men,
mostly bad, in crime-files, police-adver-
tisements and magazine-articles, full-
face and profile—Bertillon was the first
to standardise Rogues’ Galleries.
A Kind of Justice: Robert Gaines
(Heinemann). Those who love the
climate of politics will enjoy this novel
which traces the web of scandal as it
gathers round a Cabinet Minister.
Though the English atmosphere is less
fevered than that of Australian politics,
the personalities involved have an
intensity that, is impressive. The out-
standing character is Fox, the passion-
ate and embittered Socialist into whose
hands the fate of a great reputation
falls. The end of the book is incon-
clusive, a fact that in some measure
increases its tenseness.


' ,
i
I
1
■».?
S 1 1
* *1 I
.
j
]
if
u n
n
gills
mm i
». ■ '
Hill! 1
:• •
mm
II
.
I.
‘
:
11
-J
i I
L ? 1
n
H
H
I
i? \h:
S&
;i
■
UL
i
I nil Jj
II
mrnmsmmmM
JiMil
I
i K $3
li, i
m
l
1<
0
.
ntw
Wl';'
MHpj
PS» :
.'** ** ; f t*'* *«. ’-i
iPrtJPj
il# i
* * ISS |s , i»i Psi&fi£3 * \ £
, •* j * I
JBHBhHHmHk' . '***"*•*— ~~-, „ —*
mmmmm
9M&S&
Head Office of The City Mutual Life
at ' 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
1. Your bonus is even bigger this
year.
2. It has increased 4 times in the
last 5 years.
3. The Society is stronger than
ever.
4. Your policy is becoming more and
more valuable.
5. Assets exceed £32,000,000.
No
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO THE POLICYHOLDERS
To Men of Property
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being
sold to pay death duties? It can happen
to you. Death duties must be paid in
cash before your heirs can inherit. The
City Mutual Life has a policy to provide
this cash so that your assets go
unencumbered to your heirs.
For further information, write, ’phone or
call the nearest office of the Society.
The City Mutual belongs to the policyholders—over 137,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection and security of City Mutual policies. The sur-
plus for last year w r as a record at Bonuses to policyholders
w 7 ere substantially raised. Profits are returned to policyholders, each year,
in the form of bonuses.
§AV£ INCQAAE TAX. Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could
be securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember, you can pay up to
£2OO yearly in premiums and deduct it from your income tax return. By this
means, a proportion of your investment in assurance is actually paid for you.
There is a type of City Mutual policy to suit every individual need.
Enquiries, forwarded to our Head Office in your State, will receive immediate
attention, without obligation.
HEAD OFFICES
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 8W2021.
9'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: FA 2371.
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Telephone: BF 1451.
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: LA 4831.
Tes.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Telephone: B 2504.
