

/
m
e
»
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
PUTTING US IN OUR PLACE —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4006
Wednesday, November 21, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
EVENING PEAL
Brown mare by Delville Wood from Mission Chimes. Four years.
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP , 1956
Owner: Trainer: Jockey:
Mr. and Mrs. R. WHITE E. D. LAWSON G. PODMORE
Weight: 8st. Time: 3min. 19-|sec.


£2l
for her
sth STORY
While Still Engaged on her Course.
Stott Queensland Student (Mrs. L. King)
received that figure for her Short Story
“Susan and the Wolf.”
If you have the urge to write, you can
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio' Talks, Pars,
? r ® e ' e^c - There is a large and constant
demand for well-written work.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
MAIL THE COUPON TODAY
—
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
-~—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
| To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
l g-ation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
J y our Iciiferary Courses.
| MY NAME
J ADDKESS -
S.B. 2256
UOOKIIUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text dock.
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
TWO BIRD-BOOKS
The problem of making the perfect
bird-book for the imperfect bird-
watcher, so that you can instantly tell
whether the visitor to your backyard
is a fairy-wren or a wedgetailed-eagle,
is apparently very difficult.
Mr. A. H. Chisholm solves it neatly
in Bird Wonders of Australia (Angus
and Robertson) by not attempting to
write a guide to identification. His
book, which was first published in 1934
and is now revised and enlarged, aims
to present “a factual, gossipy account
of the believe-it-or-not features of
Australia’s remarkable birdlife”; and
as such it is admirable.
It must, too, necessarily help in
identification. To take a rather obvious
example, if you come upon a satin-
bowerbird’s playground in National
Park, Sydney, containing
eight bluebags, 10 pieces of blue
matchboxes, one blue cigarette-
packet, one blue envelope, one piece
of blue string, 34 pieces of blue
glass, 17 blue feathers, one blue
marble and one car-park ticket,
that will almost certainly be the play-
ground of a satin-bowerbird, unless of
a car-park attendant.
If, in south-western Queensland, you
hear a thunderstorm, that also will be
a bowerbird (the spotted one). If you
hear a lyrebird imitating a kookaburra,
turning the laugh into a “silver water-
fall,” or, more prosaically, saying
“Ca-luck, ca-luck,” or, most beautifully
of all, singing in the air as it skims
oyer your head beside the Port Hacking
River, near Sydney, that will be a lyre-
bird. And, as you may learn from
one of the many charming photographs,
if you see a bit of fluff about half the
size of a chicken, with immense three-
pronged toes like a toasting-fork, that
will be a baby lotusbird. The bird that
unexpectedly alights on your head and
pulls your hair out will be the white-
eared honeyeater in search of lining
for its nest.
But there still remains the problem
of rapid, easy identification. You
cannot ramble at leisure through Mr.
Chisholm’s delightful pages while a
bird is sitting on your head.
Alan and Shirley Bell have attempted
tct solve this problem in Some Common
Australian Birds (Geoffrey Cumber-
lege; Oxford University Press), and
have come so near to succeeding that
one is pained beyond measure to have
to criticise them.
The standard book for identification
Mr. Chisholm in his foreword also
mentions J. A. Leach’s “Australian
Bird Book”—is, of course, Neville
Cayley’s “What Bird Is That?”: again
so useful and kindly a compilation
that one shrinks from criticising it.
But Cayley does set some consider-
able obstacles in the amateur’s path.
Sa y ’ y° u h a PP en to be in Kuring-gai
Chase, near Sydney, among reasonably
tall timber, yet close to both heath-
lands and scrublands, near a stream
and only a few miles away from the
coast, what on earth are you to make
of his system of classification into
“Forest-frequenting Birds,” “Birds of
the Heathlands,” ‘.‘Birds of the Ocean
and Shore,” “Birds of the Streams”
and so on? What are you going to do
when a bird turns up in your garden,
where there is no forest, no heath, no
shore, no lake, stream or swamp?
What you do, in fact, is go right
through Cayley in the hope of fluking
a bird that might be right; and ther
you have the additional difficulty tha
his color-plates have been printed so
small that one bird looks most con
fusingly like the next, and all seem too
small to be the bird you want. The
mere look of the pages, with as many
as 25 birds crowded on to them, i
daunting.
Mr. and Mrs. Bell have got over al
that.
Their classification is simply into
“Large Birds” and “Small Birds.” Tha:
helps enormously. If an emu jumpec
over the back fence it would obviously
be foolish to look for it among the
“Small Birds.”
Mrs. Bell’s color-plates have never
more than one bird to the page, and
with many of the smaller birds, are up
to two-thirds life-size. Identification
when the plate is satisfactory, shoulc
be instantaneous.
Of course this clarification has been
made possible only by the omission of
scores of birds that are in Cayley. “Of
more than 650 native birds,” the
authors frankly admit, “just over
hundred are included.” But, though
everyone will miss a few favorites, anc
will wonder if (except for New Aus-
tralians) it wouldn’t have been advis-
able to skip the kookaburra and the
English blackbird for something more
out-of-the-way, on the whole the
omissions will not worry the amateur.
Dealing with the “common” birds to
be observed “at home in the garden or
during a day’s outing” all over Aus-
tralia, the book serves a similar purpose
to Thistle Harris’s “Australian Wild-
flowers”: which, at least for a start, is
all that most amateurs require.
Mr. Bell’s text, again, may be found
more helpful than Cayley’s. Essentially
it is not very different, and Cayley is
always both readable and useful; but
Mr. Bell is less formal, more com-
panionable, slightly more vivid in his
descriptions. Of the black-faced
cuckoo-shrike, for instance:—
It seems surprising that this large,
beautiful and fairly common cuckoo-
shrike is not more admired. The
ghostly grey is a courtly dress
flaunted among the leaves or against
the sky; the calls (mainly in the
early mornings of autumn and spring)
are strong, clear and full of that
liquid, rippling quality which
belongs more to the marsh or shore-
line than to the bush. The flight is
masterful and easy; a looping,
cruising passage from one patch of
woodland to the next, or drifting
glides and circlings that make the
most of upward currents athwart
topmost boughs. The birds are
rarely near the ground ; they like to
perch high with wings half-spread,
as though poised more on the wind
than supported by the twigs
Common names for the species are
“Blue Jay” and, in Tasmania,
“Summer-bird.”
Anyone, with the large color-plate
as well, should recognise a black-faced
cuckoo-shrike after that; and, if
interested in the rights of small nations,
will be able to join in the protesting
clamor with which “lesser woodland
residents” greet their arrival ... to
which the big cuckoos reply with “low,
thick, slurred notes which sound
fretfully disinterested.”
All this is very beautiful. It is
doubly heartrending that the point on
which exception must be taken is Mrs.
Bell’s color-plates.
Not all of them. In fact, making
certain allowances, all will help in
identification and many are completely
satisfactory. But, charming as they are
simply as color-plates, quite a few do
look remarkably unlike the birds they
are supposed to represent. The grey-
fantail, whom surely one remembers as
essentially brownish-black with a
yellowish breast, is here a strange light
silver; the silver-eye is much too vivid
a green; the wagtail looks more green
than black and white and is not at all
in his characteristic cheeky pose; the
peewee looks similarly far too neutral
in color and temperament; the starling,
whose metallic shimmer of green on
black must indeed set a problem for
the artist, comes out a pale blue spotted
with pink; the white cockatoo, with a
tiny salmon-colored crest and hardly
any beak to speak of, looks as demure
as a budgerigar; the blue crane seems
to have a back as broad as an emu’s.
Faulty reproduction may be partly
responsible for these disappointments;
but there also seem to have been, alas,
faulty observation and draftsmanship.
Small as Cayley’s plates are, they are
infinitely more lifelike.
refused to be left out of this first party
and was allowed to wait on table.
The ice broken, they found Tos-
canini was a pushover for practical
jokes, so that for future parties they
raided the novelty-shops for balloons
that made rude noises when sat upon
and table-knives that broke on being
applied to meat. There is a pathetic
story of how Toscanini insisted on try-
ing the breaking knife on his wife, had
the table set with it, and then dis-
covered that the dish of the evening
was for forks only; and a feeling of
the inadequacy of fathers when Chot-
zinoff junior was playing with a magnet
and Toscanini wanted it, and the boy
defied all his father’s persuasions to
give it up.
Mr. Chotzinoff grew to know Tos-
canini so well that he was chosen, when
the old man had retired, to go over to
Italy and get him to sign a contract to
form and conduct an orchestra for the
N.8.C.; a story of frightful stress; after
which, in all Toscanini’s years in
broadcasting, Mr. C. seems to have
been a buffer between the world and
the conductor and the conductor and
the world.
For there is always the feeling that
the lightning may strike with a crash
of drums and cymbals! Imagine sitting
in a Milan cafe with Toscanini, at the
height of Mussolini’s power, scream-
ing; “Mussolini! Do not speak of that
assassino! That porco! I wish to kill
him. I would be happy to kill him.”
When another New York conductor
insulted a player the musicians’ union
representative was round in half-an-
hour to demand an apology or else
They never did that to Toscanini.
There are some fine scenes here of
Toscanini rehearsing and conducting;
of Toscanini rewriting Beethoven and
rubbing it out again after Mr. Chot-
zinoff, taking his life in his hands, told
him it sounded “vulgar”; of the sad
moments at his last concert, when he
was physically unable to give the beat;
of the shattering of morale when
Toscanini was not amused at a zany
entertainment contrived especially for
him at the Sarnoffs’; and of his relent-
ing and his agreement to conduct a
burlesque of Stokowski’s “Youth
Orchestra” at a charity-do where
Heifetz as a Tennessee hillbilly,
Horowitz as a poor piano student and
Feuermann as a Tyrolese cellist were
given auditions by Mr. Chotzinoff
(who broke Heifetz’s violin over his
head) and Tibbett sang the “Pagliacci”
Prologue with his trousers slowly
slipping down to his ankles.
Even then, with 30 of the best players
in New York and Heifetz as leader, all
in short pants and white blouses,
Toscanini used up all the rehearsal
time of the rest of the show, so that
the rest of the cast nearly resigned; and
instead of parody or travesty:—
Never had light music been played
with such brilliance, verve, beauty,
tonal balance and general perfection.
Coast of the Sun: Henry C. James
(Jarrolds). Travels in Portugal.
Portugal is about the one place in
Europe that everyone forgets to go to;
and Mr. James, who was born in
Australia and still likes to astound the
Portuguese with stories about the size
of our sheep-stations, gives a very
pleasant picture of it —from the big
hotels to the tiny villages; having
cabbies raise their hats to him for a
penny tip; eating barnacles; and watch-
ing the grape-picking. Without being
great travel-writing, it is unusually
alive and is all firsthand observation
without the taint of the guidebook.
Toscanini
Samuel Chotzinoffs Toscanini
(Hamilton), restricted to to his own
experiences with the conductor, makes
a rounded “portrait of a ‘genius” and
a book that would entertain almost
anyone.
Mr. Chotzinoff, as a New York
music-critic, dared to ask Toscanini to
supper. He builds up to this with
stories of how, after a mistake at the
evening’s concert, or just because the
maestro felt that way, Toscanini could
kill a party stone-dead; and then goes
on to explain how his sister-in-law
DUCK-SHOOTIN'
Mr. Coxon having been
transferred to the Northern
Territory from the city
arrived pink and sweaty.
His body was rotund
and he spoke with a London
accent. The ’plane
thrust him into an oven-
hot day all blue sky,
red earth and shimmering runway.
His suit was navy blue,
his shirt was white, or nearly that hue.
In khaki he looked better
than in blue; and somewhat fitter
when the sun changed his skin
to a color he could take a pride in. :
Mr. Coxon one day walked
into mess and even more loudly talked:
Bestowed two brace of duck
on our c-stonished cook.
He'd “been out shootin’ ”...
No, not with rifle or gun,
not to stalk and aim,
proving his skill with same.
No, he had two Colts,
two pistols, big black brutes.
He had, he said, screwed up his eyes
and blazed blindly into the skies,
into a flock that took ten-minutes to rise.
N.Z. '*
W. HART-SMITH.
"The Singing Gold"
Dorothy Cottrell’s “The Singing
Gold” (R.P. 24/10/’56) was published
as a serial in the Sydney “Mail” before
it appeared in the American “Ladies’
Home Journal.” I was amazed when
re-reading it in the American magazine
to find that the love-story of Gilbert—
the heroine’s brother had been
eliminated.
This sordid episode gave the charac-
teristically Australian realistic touch.
It served as fine dramatic contrast in a
story which, without it, became a pretty
tale for a ladies’ paper.
I have not read the present publica-
* son by Angus and Robertson, but it
is to be hoped that Dorothy Cottrell
has not allowed the mutilated form to
appear.
Rosalie Blanche.
[Gilbert is in. R.P.]
The Red Page review of “The Sing-,
ing Gold” quotes information about
her “according to the invaluable
Morris Miller,” but the passage is my
writing, as is the whole of the textual
matter in the new “Australian
Literature,” from which the quotation
is taken. This is made clear on the
title-page and amplified in my preface.
The only part of the work attributable
to Dr. Miller is the bibliographical lists
and the annotations incorporated with
them, and then only up to 1938, and
he is not responsible even for this
material as now radically edited by
me.
It is, of course, not expected that
these complications should be indi-
cated when the book is quoted from,
but at very least it should be described
as “Miller and Macartney’s ‘Australian
Literature,’ ” or in some such adequate
words. Actually the circumstances
require that any quotation from the
*commentary should be ascribed to me,
for it is in no degree the result of
collaboration with Dr. Miller, and may
cqntain interpretations with which he
does not agree.
Frederick T. Macartney.


FROM
universal providers
inthony Horderns’
TO ALL OUR CUSTOMERS
%
- ir
A -
r€A
v-s.<
tiPISII
f
Mllll
3M
m
SHORT CUTS TO EASIER
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
Biggest Programme of Christmas Entertainment ever
For the 1956 Christmas Season, Anthony Horderns’ have planned the merriest, happiest attractions
[or the children. First bring them up to Santaland where Santa Claus is enthroned m all his glory;
tie has a kind word for every little boy and girl as they tell him their wishes for Christmas. Then
on to see “The Lady and the Tramp”—a new Santaland Walt Disney animated show. Upstairs, see the
FREE Puppet Show, “Bop at the Court of King Arthur” in which Bop and Monti Galah rescue the
lovely Princess from the wicked Black Prince-(Exciting jousts and grim battles on the drawbridge!)
6 times daily, Mon. to Fri., 10, 11, 12 noon, 1,2, 3 p.m.; Sat., 10, 11 a.m. 4th Floor A splendid
Christmas gift is an original-portrait of yourself or children by sketch artist Lynne Lavelle, she will draw
one of you in just a few minutes to take away, from 12/6. Picture Framing Dept., Grnd. Fir. George St.
c 3
a?
J
rtK*i
Christmas Cards
All things bright and beautiful, Anthony
Horderns’ have them all! The prettiest
wrapping, the gayest cards from Australia
and overseas are here in a profusion of
designs and colours. Ground Floor, Pitt St.
r
• v-'s
c, * *
« v % t
O Uo O
0
V> o.
VAo;
Cj V
It 9 s never too late
If you have forgotten a friend, the solu-
tion is simple, give a Gift Certificate
from Anthony Horderns’! Just decide the
amount, buy it from our 3rd Hoor Office.
a
/ /.
X
Poultry executed to order
Ve guarantee that when your order is re-
vived it will be ready on time for you
o.take home for Christmas Day. Choicest
thickens, Capons, Ducks, Drakes Turkeys.
m
C_3
&
Give a Food Hamper
You’ll be a favoured gift-giver if the
hamper comes from Anthony Horderns!
We pack only the nicest Christmas “good-
ies” into our hampers. £3; £4; £5 and £6.
a
<&
We Deliver to the 11th hour
Late on Christmas Eve you’ll see Anthony
Horderns’ Santacruising around, making
last minute deliveries to all homes within
a radius of 14 miles of the store. We
don’t want anyone to be disappointed.


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 4006
Wednesday, November 21, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 24f -249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
U.N.O.'s FEEBLE PLIGHT
MR. MENZIES said some things about the
United Nations and about the policy of Dr. Evatt
towards that organisation which long had needed
saying, even though he earned the grandmotherly
ire of Sydney “Herald,” other journals and their
correspondence-columnists.
He said that he did not think it was any
contribution to the world’s peace to have Great
Britain and France treated by the Australian
Opposition-leader as if they were on all-fours with
the Soviet Union. He remarked that there had
been more passion from the “Labor” party about
Anglo-French action in Egypt than there has been
about murder in Hungary. He continued:—
What sort of a desiccated world are we living
in; what sort of an airy-fairy international com-
munity is this? The United Nations has done
nothing about Soviet butchery in Hungary. A
resolution was submitted bu't vetoed—by the Soviet
Union, of course. The matter has gone to a
Special Assembly, and without doubt the Special
Assembly will pass a resolution. It won’t be easy
for us, will it, to establish an international *force
of two battalions to protect Hungary against the
Soviet Union? That is a 30- or 40-division j0b....
But in the case of Egypt that is different. That is
a small matter. I wonder whether there would
have been a United Nations force in Egypt if the
British and French had stayed at home?
The United Nations is a body embracing almost
every independent country in the world—as well as
dependent ones—some of them with less popula-
tion than Sydney and all licensed to meddle in
world affairs and to guide the policies of free
nations. Some of them are white, some black
and somq brindle; and some have histories of
bloodshed and are ruled by sinister dictatorships
or by a kind of anarchy. Yet they are all authorised
to criticise and censure the manners, morals and
actions of countries like Britain, the United States,
Canada, Australia and New Zealand, and especially
those of the United Kingdom, which they would
like to see broken-up into little pieces.
Some there are—a very few—who don’t seem
to be dedicated to this idea. Italy, for instance,
whose Foreign Minister, Signor Martino, has
reacted fiercely to accusations that in their descent
upon the Suez Canal the British were “oppressors
of freedom and justice.” He said that his Govern-
ment “rejected with indignation the foolish allega-
tions of those who tried to persuade us to forget
the titles to everlasting glory which Britain and
France have earned in their lifelong struggle for
freedom and justice”; that whatever differences
Italy might have with those countries, “there was
never any doubt in the minds of those responsible
for Italy’s government that the motives of these
two countries were to serve the cause of justice,
sometimes in difficult and obscure situations.” He
contrasted the difference between the British and
French systems, under whose free Parliaments men
could discuss without fear their Governments’
actions, and those of the “countries who tenaciously
co-operated to produce the events which culminated
in the present disorders in the Middle East and
who now with such facility enrobe themselves with
the toga of the defenders of justice.”
The spectacle presented by the United Nations
and its operations is not a pretty one. That body
is supported by a budget of which a third is provided
by the United States. About 23 per cent, is
subscribed by the British Commonwealth exclusive
of India and Ceylon, 6 per cent, by France, 5.6
per cent, by Nationalist China and 18.5 per cent,
by the Russian bloc. Thus, outside the veto
Powers, about 50 countries find only 15 per cent,
of the expenses but have an equal power to meddle
and gang-up to decide the fate of the world—in
theory—outside the Security Council, in which the
veto operates.
Most of its members seemed more concerned
to humiliate Britain and France, or to serve their
own selfish interests, than to keep the peace. Its
handling of two problems presented to it for
solution at one and the same time by cruel fate
demonstrated finally that it is no more useful than
the now-defunct League of Nations.
Britain and France having agreed to withdraw
their forces the moment U.N.O. was ready to take
over the policing of the zone between the Israelis
and the Egyptians, U.N.O. immediately seems to
have asked Nasser what it might be graciously
permitted to do. And Nasser replied, in effect,
that if U.N.O. would be kind enough to send a force
to police the British and French until they got out,
and if it was a police-force of such a size as he
approved, and if it would lodge itself where he
wished, act as he wished and when he wished, and
go away when he wished, he would generously
allow it to come to Egypt as an act of grace. And
U.N.O. seems to have capitulated to him.
In fact, only the kind of force which President
Nasser woul4 permit, and one which, once the
British and French went away, could be pushed
around by the Egyptians. And that expresses to
the full the ultimate conception of U.N.O.’s
weakness.
If its effort in the Suez affair is all that U.N.O.
can do in the way of policing Egypt, it is no wonder
that the polyglot Assembly finds the Hungarian
problem hopelessly hard to handle. The two
situations are in the strongest contrast. In Egypt
U.N.O. essays to protect an unstable military
dictatorship from the results of its banditry and
flagrant seizure, in defiance of international law, of
other people’s property, and breaches of solemn
treaties affecting the trade of the entire world.
There is no intrinsic question of basic human
rights to freedom of expression, liberty of choice
of government or system involved in Egypt.
In Hungary the position is far different.
Hungary has ever held the fire of liberty. It has
sought to assert the right of its people to govern
themselves under a system chosen by themselves.
The strength of the national sentiment behind their
action has been shown over weeks of agony, during
which they have been tom to shreds under the
hand of a traitor Government, which owes allegiance
to Moscow.
Despite the fact that a horde of invaders
has been gutting cities, killing, burning, ravaging,
outraging, exporting the young to Siberian slave-
camps, U.N.O. has done nothing. It has talked—
but in a voice duly respectful of Russian feelings.
The Hungarian tragedy has shocked the world
to its core. In all civilised countries it has undone
everything Khrushchev and his emissaries have done
in the past year to produce goodwill in the hearts
of free men, and proved—again in Mr. Menzies’s
apposite words —that the savagery of Stalin has
been replaced in Russia “only by a greater
savagely.” The same savagery is behind the events
in the Middle East. Khrushchev has supported his
Egyptian fellow-dictator and revolution-plotter with
a display of threat and power which seems to have
intimidated everybody but the British and French.
It was time that voices like those of Signor
Marino and Mr. Menzies should be heard above
the bleatings of the “old half-witted sheep,” U.N.0.,
in its luxurious fold on Manhattan Island, telling
the truth without fear and in disregard of the current
hysteria. Facts are proving that Menzies never
said a truer word than when he asserted that,
according to their conceptions, what Britain and
France did in the Suez Zone was “brave and
correct.”
Olympic Games
AS this went to the printer the Olympic Flame,
carried by a team of runners, was somewhere
between Canberra and Yass, travelling on a
schedule timed to bring it to the Main Stadium in
Melbourne at 4.32 p.m. on Thursday, after a
2730-mile journey from Cairns, whither it had been
flown from Athens.
Nothing in the Olympic festival makes more
appeal to the imagination than the concept of a
flame kindled by a sun-glass on the traditional site
of Olympia, in Greece, and carried halfway round
the world to ignite a bowl of fire to signal the
opening of the Games in Melbourne. No doubt
modern science could quite readily have devised a
gimmick whereby the sun’s rays, focused through
the glass at Olympia, could have activated some
electronic device in Melbourne, thus saving the
3000-odd Greek and Australian athletes who
carried it over the land portion of its journey quite
a deal of exertion. But anyone who favors such
a plan would probably also prefer to see racing-cars
and motor-bikes substituted for men in the track-
events and guided-missile launchers standing-in for
the discus- and javelin-throwers.
It is not generally realised that in choosing
the venue of the Olympic Games applications are
not considered from countries, but from cities.
While sportsmen from all parts of Australia rightly
feel honored to have the XVlth Olympiad celebrated
in this country, the credit for bringing it about
belongs exclusively to Melbourne. Specifically it
belongs to the late Sir Frank Beaurepaire and two
other former Lord Mayors of Melbourne, who went
abroad to put their city’s case before the Inter-
national Olympic Committee. Their task was not
easy. Many other cities were eager to be the
Olympic hosts of 1956, including two in the United
States and two in Latin America.
The Melbourne advocates had to contend first
with the reluctance of European countries to agre
to a site outside Europe and the natural tendency
of the countries of the Americas to prefer a site-in
the Western Hemisphere. Apart from thos
handicaps they had to convince the Olympic chief
not only that Melbourne could stage the Games
a worthy manner, but also that it could provid
accommodation and training - facilities for th
thousands of athletes who were expected
compete.
When the state of the building-industry
1948 and 1949—the years in which Beaurepaire anc
his colleagues were doing their lobbying i
recalled, and when it is remembered that as recently
as last year Olympic chairman Brundage wa
mortally scared that the Stadium and the Village
wouldn’t be ready in time, the confidence shown
by Beaurepaire, Connelly and Disney eight year
ago must be admired. It is a sad sequel to their
efforts that not one of the three is alive to see the
Games they secured for Melbourne.
Beaurepaire was, by general consent, to have
been Lord Mayor of Melbourne again for Olympic
year. It would have been a fitting honor to a man
who represented Australia three times as an
Olympic swimmer—in 1908, 1920 and 1924—anc
was an official at the 1924, 1928 and 1932 Games
The modem Olympic era began in 1896, three
years after a Frenchman, Baron Pierre de
Coubertin, first advocated reviving the old Greek
contests on an international basis. Appropriately,
Athens was the scene of the first series, and, even
more appropriately, the first marathon, introduced
to commemorate the feat of Pheidippides, the
famous Olympic runner who in 490 B.C. brought
to Athens the news of the defeat of the Persians at
Marathon, was won by a Greek.
Australia’s first gold-medals were won at
Athens, though E. H. Flack, the man responsible,
was not officially representing his country; he paid
his own expenses and trained with the London
Athletic Club. Flack won the 800- and 1500-
metres events. At Paris, in 1900, F. C. V. Lane
also won two gold-medals—for swimming—but at
the St. Louis Games four years later no Australian
managed even a place, and in the 1908 series, in
London, the only win was at Rugby Union; the
champion team was a combined Australian-
New Zealand XV.
Two famous Australian athletes reached the
finals in London. “Snowy” Baker was beaten for
the middleweight boxing championship by
J. W. H. T. Douglas, later England’s cricket captain,
and Frank Beaurepaire, a lad of 17, won a silver-
and a bronze-medal for swimming. He later
collected bronze-medals at the 1920 Games at
Antwerp and the 1924 Games in Paris.
Fanny Durack became the first Australian
woman to win an Olympic medaL when she came
first in the 100-metres freestyle-swimming at Stock-
holm in 1912. Australian swimmers also collected
two silvers and two bronzes at Stockholm, and the
Australasian team won the relay swim. No gold-
medals were brought home from Antwerp, the
scene of the 1920 Games, but in Paris (1924) A. W.
Winter won the hop, step and jump, Dick Eve the
high dive, and “Boy” Charlton the 1500-metres
swim (with Beaurepaire third). Charlton also won
a bronze-medal in Paris and two silvers at
Amsterdam in 1928, the year Bobby Pearce won
the single-sculls for the first time—his second win
was at Los Angeles in 1932, when Claire Dennis
won the 200-metres breaststroke and E. L. Gray
the 1000-metres cycling (he had come third in the
same event at Amsterdam).
The Berlin Games (1936) were almost a wash-
out for Australia, Eddie Scarfe’s bronze-medal for
wrestling being their only trophy.
In the first series after the war, London (1948),
this country had its greatest success, with two gold-
medals—J. A. Winter (high-jump) and Mervyn
Wood (single-sculls)—six silver- and five bronze-
medals. Whether the Helsinki performance
bettered this is a matter for debate. It certainly
did as far as gold-medals were concerned —Marjorie
Jackson (two), Shirley Strickland, John Davies,
Russell Mockridge and Lionel Cox. There were
also two silvers and three bronzes.
When the “final” entries for the Melbourne
Games were announced at the end of October,
General Bridgeford was able to say that 74 nations
would be competing, the highest number ever, and
five more than took part at Helsinki. The number
of athletes nominated was 4985.
The march of world events has since cut down
both figures. Red China cancelled its entry
ostensibly because Nationalist China’s had been
accepted, although it had known of that for months,
if not for years. Egypt and Irak withdrew because
of the Middle East boilover, and Spain and Holland
in protest against the Russian invasion of Hungary.
Switzerland, out and then in again, is apparently
now unable to charter planes to get here in time.
Still, for all that, the athletes of close on 70
nations will be competing in Melbourne this week.
They don’t all love each other, but at least they re
not going to show their hates too strongly.
Pessimists who despair at the future of the Olympics
should reflect that the original Games were
conducted regularly over a period of nearly a
thousand years, yet in very few of those years was
the world really at peace.


ANOTHER CANAL OBSTRUCTION


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Olympic Scene
[From the Olympic Village]
It is much more difficult even for
a pressman to get into the Olympic
Village than it was in England during the
war to visit an important operational air-
field or an Admiralty press-conference;
but it is an inspiriting place and worth the
passport-photos, passes and the rest.
It is brand-new, and smells it. The
houses are varied in design, color and
placement, and when the athletes vacate
them after the Games, the Housing Com-
mission will take them over. There are
841 of them on 117 acres which were bare
and .wind-swept North Heidelberg (about
half-an-hour’s car-run from the city) two
years ago.
The flags of almost all nations fly in
rows at the approach, and after school-
hours there are hundreds of youngsters
besieging the athletes at the gates for
autographs. When it is dark, the adult
autograph-hunters take over. (Officials
told me they were worse than the kids.)
There is always great activity at the
actual entrance-gates, above which fly the
Olympic and Australian flags, and the
gates are manned by the Army. A wire-
fence, about 10ft. high, runs completely
round the village.
Inside is an infectious air of expect-
ancy,, with the competitors in national
groups of three or four ambling purpose-
fully on their way. They all greet you,
and one another, and the Australian
workmen and maintenance-men who are
still in the village wink and think it’s
wonderful.
At any hour, except the precise meal-
hours, it would be possible to believe
there are more cooks than competitors.
The chef’s uniform, though, is universal;
but they are everywhere, from the com-
munity-hall to the remotest part of the
village ; and so are the dining-rooms.
The village is designed in arc and
circles, with some straight streets; and a
bus runs round it continuously. It is very
much like Canberra (except that there are
no fleets of Commonwealth cars and very
few pretty girls), and inside it everybody
is instantly identifiable; the competitors
by the inscription (chiefly in English) on
the jerseys, and citizens by the bold
badges in their lapels. The only persons
I saw without either were three detectives,
looking (for the first time, possibly)
abashed by their anonymity.
The Olympic authorities have provided
just on all that athletes require. There
are hairdressing- and beauty-salons, boot-
repair and clothes-mending service, a
bank, dry-cleaners and even Sauna baths
for northern Europeans.
I picked-up the current official
count of competitive heads inside the
village and I had noticed the
substantial number of women athletes
among them. Inside I couldn’t find one.
I asked an Australian workman where
they were and he said, “Now, mate!”
laughed outright and hurried on.
An official couldn’t help, either, and,
as a long shot, I asked four of the largest
fellows I could see. Iran, their jerseys
announced, and they were tall, brpad,
happy and so well-nourished they must
have been shot-putters all. They thought
the inquiry was the bes't joke since they
left Persia and admonished me with dark
forefingers.
Back at the press-rooms later I found
the women athletes lived in a segregated
section, presumably because other host-
cities have found even Olympic boys will
be boys.
There were 70 nations in the Games
that day ; the number has fluctuated from
day to day, depending on the successes
and failures of the Hungarians’ defence of
their country against the Russians ; when
the Hungarians were winning* wavering
nations hung on, and when they lost they
refused to compete unless impossible
condition, of course—the Russians were
excluded.
The Russians have the biggest team,
336, with the Americans second with 297
and Australia third with 278. The other
big teams are Britain 183, Italy 180,
Germany 120, Japan 112, Czechoslovakia
90, Rumania 72, Sweden 67, Korea 49
and Kenya 32. The numerical surprises
here are from Rumania, Korea and
Kenya.
Included in the Rumanian total are 15
women—a stout effort from a Balkan
State—and in the other totals 38 Aus-
tralian women, 37 Russian, 26 British, ‘
26 American and 22 Italian.
On Both Sides
The curious position ? of the Australian
Labor Party was illustrated by the reso-
lution of the N.S.W. executive last week
condemning Russia’s intervention in
Hungary.
The resolution was long and windy.
It called on unions and party branches
to join in bringing succor to the stricken
Magyar people. It gravely “condemned
the armed intervention of Britain and
France in Egypt,” which it said “injured
and undermined the moral leadership of
those tw6 countries in the struggle for
peace throughout the world,” but it
repudiated the fraudulent and impossible
charges by Communist propagandists that
armed intervention by Britain and France
in Egypt in any way paralleled in intention
or ferocity the Soviet attack on Hungary,
and denounced the Communist party of
Australia for its support of the attack on
Hungary. .
The resolution declared that the A.L.P.
joined with democratic Socialists through-
out the world in declaring abhorrence for
the Soviet Union’s action.
At the same time it “supported Dr.
Evatt in his plea for the rule of law as
against rule of force in the settlement of
international disputes and war.” In fact,
it loves Dr. Evatt as the commander-in-
chief in Labor’s fight in U.N.O. against
the veto, as the chairman of the commit-
tee which created Palestine. Also it loves
itself because, “speaking through Dr.
Evatt at the United Nations, it fought for
the right of the pilgrims of the Christian
world to have full-time access to the Holy
Land.”
The executive’s Support of Dr. Evatt
goes strangely with that orator’s outbursts.
He himself branded the British-French
action in Egypt as “monstrous aggression
the use of force for an illegal pur-
pose,” and “the naked exercise of military
power.” And he put the two cases of
Egypt and Hungary on an equal footing.
On November 5 he told the Sydney
“Herald”:
In each case force is being used against
a country without the slightest justification
in law and in clear opposition to U*.N. rules
and principles.
Only the day before the A.L.P. resolu-
tion was passed, Dr. Evatt, speaking in
the Wentworth electorate, according to
a Sydney “Herald” report, said that
“the action of the British and French
Governments in Egypt was similar in
principle to that of the Russians in Hun-
gary” and that “the defence by the
Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, of the
action in Egypt would give the Russians
some justification for their attack on
Hungary.”
The A.L.P. has shown itself ruthless in
expelling N.S.W. elements which disagree
with it, but to the *time of writing it has
made no attempt to expel Dr. Evatt.
Neither has Dr. Evatt made any attempt
to expel the State executive.
It is all very confusing, apart from
being horrible that any Australian can
find justification of any sort for the
brutalities of the Russian tank divisions
on the Hungarian trade-unionists, who
are particularly resisting them.
""" \
Another Deadlock
The Premiers’ conference at Canberra
last week, as was only to be expected,
failed to agree on a uniform wage policy.
All that the debaters could agree to do
was that “after all the Budgets for this
financial year have been announced,”
they would “do everything within their
power to avoid any increases affecting
the cost of living in their own charges
during the financial year.”
Mr. Menzies told the conference in
its beginnings that there would probably
be a substantial increase in the liquidity
of the banking system during the next
six months, intensified perhaps by
demand-pressures due to international
disturbances. This could, “subject to any
other measures that may be taken,”
influence inflationary pressures in the
community and tend to have an upward
effect on price-levels. He pointed out
that the argument that wage-rises were
especially justified because of the fall in
real wages as opposed to nominal rises
was false. He said that the average
increase in earnings for two years ended
June 30 last was 13.1 per cent, and in
retail, prices, judged by the “C”-series
index, and including potatoes and onions,
8.7 per cent.
Mr, Cahill looked for his solution to
a mixed bag of expedients ranging from
capital-issues control and an excess-
profits tax to an index with some new
basis and a conference of Federal and
State arbitration authorities with repre-
sentatives of the trade-unions and
industry to obtain wage-uniformity
throughout Australia —of course at the
highest State-wage level.
Mr. Bolte disagreed with the Prime
Minister. He was confident that “over,
the next two quarters there will not be
an upward trend in prices,” and backed
this with an offer to “give an open
assurance to introduce selective price-
controls in Victoria should the index-
figures for the next two quarters show a
continuing upward trend” and the
commercial interests did not exercise
price-restraint.
The other Premiers, save for Mr.
Playford, who “fundamentally "agreed
with Mr. Menzies,” had their eyes firmly
fixed on the need for “maintaining the
standard of living of the worker” while
obliterating from their minds the probable
effects of retaining the present methods
of doing it upon the State and private
industrial economies. Even Mr. Play-
ford qualified his basic agreement with
the Commonwealth by saying that he
felt that when the Federal court cut out
quarterly adjustments it did not pay
sufficient regard to maintaining the
workers’ living-standards.
Mr. Menzies’s ultimate proposal that
the States should abandon reference to
the quarterly “C”-series index and look
to an annual review of the basic wage
by the Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Commission was scorned by
all the State representatives save Mr.
Bolte. They plumped for national price-
control of some sort, which they must
all have known to be nearly impractic-
able and unworkable, as a Condition of
their acceptance of the scheme.
Apart from the tendency to use every
issue to produce further steps towards
national socialisation, most of the
Premiers, and especially Mr. Cahill, were
apparently actuated by a motive which
they were not prepared to elaborate.
They were, in fact, hoping that with
the bottom dropping out of the potato
market and the development of other
factors there would probably be a
decrease in the next quarterly cost-of-
living adjustment—perhaps as much as
3s. in N. S. Wales, a blessed relief to a
Government which would be broken
financially if there were another rise of
the same measure as the 11s. in the
September quarter.
New Trade Pact
\
If and when world affairs and trade
settle back into something like normal
routine it will be possible to assess the
likely results of the new trade pact
betweeh Australia and Britain which will
be signed early next year, to operate for
five years. ,
Trade Minister John McEwen- has just
signed the heads-of-agreement in London,
and most of the details have been
announced, to a chorus of fairly general
approval. McEwen and his deputy,
McMahon, have hailed the new pact,
which replaces the outworn Ottawa
Agreement, as likely to give a fillip to
Australian secondary industry, and there
doesn’t seem much doubt that our
efficient wool- and wheat-industries will
have nothing to lose under the new
arrangements.
We should certainly be able to sell
more wheat to Britain, and at the same
time we should be able to buy many items
of capital equipment more cheaply in
Europe and elsewhere than we have
been able to do in Britain under the
restrictions imposed by the Ottawa
pact. This in turn should be. reflected in
lower costs of production for many
items, especially for manufactured
exports.
Although some anomalies remain, the
principle of reciprocal preferences has
been retained. On the basis of 1954-55
imports, if it were possible to reduce
preference-margins to the full extent
permitted by the new agreement, the
saving in the duty-paid price of imported
goods to the Australian community is
officially estimated at £7 million, includ-
ing more than £1 million on basic
materials and machinery.
Full advantage will not be taken of
possible cost-reductions, as the Govern-
ment has announced it will continue to
use the tariff to protect efficient and
economical domestic industries, but it
seems correct for the Ministers to claim
achievement of the two “cardinal objec-
tives”—maintenance of the preferences
accorded Australian foodstuffs in Britain
and relief of the Australian economy
from the excessive costs inherent in the
preference-margins given to U.K. goods
under the Ottawa Agreement.
Uni. Leadership
It is quite clear from the first-hand
accounts of independent witnesses that
Melbourne police used unnecessary
violence against students and some
members of the University staff when
they marched on State Parliament House
as, they claimed, “a protest against
Menzies’s support of Eden/ in Egypt and
Russia’s attack on Hungary.”
The police also turned on a very
effective show of force both in the
number of men and cars. Still, it would
be difficult for a service charged with the
upholding of order to know precisely
where to draw the line when a report is
received of men marching on the fount
of law and finding it to be true.
Most of the placards the students
carried were devoted to Egypt, and some
on the Hungarian horror were thrown in
apparently to make the procession look
merely Pink. An indication that its
genesis was rather Left-of-centre, too, was
the coincidence that J. F.' Cairns,
ex-university lecturer in economics and
now “Labor” M.H.R., was on hand to
address the lads and their mentors.
The most arresting feature! of the
parade was the presence among the
students of some of the University staff.
For a couple of decades it has never
been supposed that a preponderance of
the University staff could be classed as
Conservatives or dyed -in - the - wool
patriots to the British cause, but. their
presence among the demonstrators seems
to have been deliberate.
The University Council now has the
opportunity to define where free speech
begins, in demonstrations originating in
its grounds, and where it ends.
Growing Clearer
“Ek Dum” : Outstanding aspects of inter-
national events during the past week have
been (1) that the world at large is com-
ing round to the feeling that the British
Cabinet was not such a bunch of fools
after all when it joined with the French
to enter the Suez Canal Zone; (2) that
the United Nations every day shows more
clearly its ineptitude and inability to act;
(3) that world disturbance has prob-
ably been saved from developing into
war by the increasing and unforeseen
difficulties of the Soviet Union with its
satellites; (4) that the development of
these difficulties has left Nasser badly in
the soup, a fact which in no way damps
down his bluster but which certainly
affects his action ; (5) that the United
States appears to have reversed its
attitude on the whole Suez question and
to be preparing to take over the Middle
East through the U.N.
Probably on any issue which arose needing
decision, the only body in the world which
would yield to the discredited Nasser is the
United Nations, which the larger Powers of the
West all seem anxious now to avoid as if it were
a badly bankrupt friend on the way to explain
to the Official Receiver.
Of the elements in the world situation the
main ingredient is the Russian. Not more
than a month or so ago delighted Communist
parties the world over were watching the growing
goodwill of the free world to Khrushchev and
Bulganin, and the manner in which Russian
influence was able to develop an impact on
situations in which British, French and United
States influence could be weakened. South-
east Asia, India and Burma in particular
seemed happy hunting-grounds. Malaya was
full of riot which the silly British failed to put
down. North Africa was in a ferment. The
Arab world was quickly being subverted, as
such incidents as the expulsion of Glubb Pasha
from Jordan showed. World Communism
will no doubt look back on the first nine
months of 1956 as a golden age comparable
with the last years of World War 11.
It is almost unbelievable that so short a few
weeks could work so great a change. With
Nasser’s seizure of the Suez Canal and the
consequent Middle Eastern and African flare-
ups which it was possible to organise round it,
it looked as if the day for which the Com-
munists had been longing since the age of
Lenin had come. Russia had supplanted the
West as the influence in Cairo and other places.
It seemed only a matter of time before the
Middle Eastern oilfields would be outflanked,
the Suez Canal and the Nile under Russian
domination with a great armed, organised centre
at Cairo.
It is now clear that behind the illusory
dream period of Khrushchev’s soft war, as he
lumbered round the world smiling on
proletariats and insulting Western statesmen and
leaders, dragging the benign-looking Bulganin
after him like a performing bear, arms were
being distributed from behind the Iron Curtain
along with the social sugar and the manifesta-
tions of love and affection for the Comrades
of the West and the paeans of hate against
Stalin —whose literature and advice continued
to be the standard training pabulum in the
supposedly hostile Communist parties abroad.
Indeed, in practical terms, it seemed tnat
mobilisation had begun on more than one
interior Iron Curtain front. The Red Chinee,
for instance, were undoubtedly changing the
nature of their forces. As pointed out here,
the Russian military doctrine was material),
changed at the highest level a few months
ago. The Red Army Command began
to preach that surprise was the element on
which Soviet Union military teaching should
emphasise.
The real call to arms, the first step toward,
the great move which was to follow when in.
{Continued on next page)


world had been sufficiently softened up, was the
declaration of the Warsaw Pact. This was
issued on January 26 this year by the representa-
tives of Albania, Bulgaria, Hungary, bast
Germany, Poland (present Premier Cyrankiewicz
signed with Marshal Rokossovsky), Rumania,
Czechoslovakia and the U.S.S.R. -
Behind all the palaver in the declaration were
certain measures which included the appoint-
ment of a joint standing committee to produce
a common set of recommendations on foreign
policy \he integration of all the armed forces
of the Iron Curtain countries into one vast Red
Army, agreed to a meeting in Prague on
January 27-28 at which:
On the proposal of the Marshal of the
Soviet Union, I. S. Konev, Commander-in-
Chief of the Unified Armed Forces, the
statute of the unified command was con-
sidered and approved, and organisational
matters connected with the unified armed
forces of the Warsaw Treaty Powers
were settled.
The Political. Consultative Committee of the
Treaty Powers accepted the offer of the Com-
munists of East Germany to form a national
army to be incorporated in the new force and
its proposed commander, it was agreed, should
be “one of the assistants to the Commander-
in-Chief of the unified forces.”
Then began the much-advertised steps to
“reduce” Russian forces in Europe and replace
them with local levies called up for training
in the various national armies—in effect a
mobilisation of the satellites. Then also begsta
the development of the sudden bursts or
“shortages” in East Europe, of closing-off ot
railway-transport, callings-up of road-vehicles
culminating in the events in Poznan and the
Hungarian unrest early in October. Then it was
that, amid the manoeuvres in which Hto
had become involved, the helpless satellite gun-
fodder came to understand the sinister implica-
tions of what was going on.
From that moment rebellion reared its head
in every country concerned, ultimately wrecking
Russian plans. Poland, Czechoslovakia, Albania,
East Germany all had their incidents. These
culminated in the outbreak in Hungary when
large military movements and the clamping-
down of the iron hand of the Soviet agents on
food and transport on October 1 seemed to be
a signal that events were moving apace towards
a point at which Eastern Europe would come
under martial law and the military control
of a Russiafi Marshal for the purposes ot
surprise war.
The references in the Warsaw Declaration to
the attitude of the Soviet bloc to the Asian and
African peoples and their aspirations were
enough to link the military and economic
developments of Eastern Europe with events
round Suez, and no doubt both the British and
French were aware of what was happening.
Whatever they knew must have been deadly
serious. Otherwise it would not have united
France, hitherto torn with political schism, and
driven the- United Kingdom to action on a
costly scale at a moment of particular economic
stress and industrial unrest based on wage
demands.
A pointer in the matter was certainly the
sudden descent of the Russians on Hungarian
territory with ruthless severity at a moment at
which compromise seemed possible. The event
which changed the situation and tnggered-ott
the savage atrocities of the huge armored
attack was the repudiation by the Nagy Govern-
ment of the Warsaw Treaty. It was obvious that
this would wreck' - the whole of the Soviet
Union’s plans if it were not prevented.
An example, ruthless in its brutality, must be
made. But it was made too late to save
Russian plans. Also, Nasser as a fighting man
proved a bitter disappointment. The
“battle” of Gaza was a mere surrender ot
Russian armaments.
POLITICAL POINTS
workmen in Parliament House, Canberra,
last week were busy laying red carpet
on any spot where without it the Royal
feet might have trodden on stone- or
parquet-flooring. Perhaps the Duke may
be a trifle tired of red carpet, or perhaps
he may not be, but it can hardly be called
informal. i
• •
Having for the second time in succes-
sion drawn first-place on the ballot-
paper for the Sydney City Council
election, the Communist party looks
certain, to retain its two seats on the
Council.
• •
An unpleasant feature of the Suez
blockage is the United States attitude over
oil. It seems to be afraid to give Europe
any special oil aid (and already there is
a danger of essential industry in Britain
and the Continent closing down) for fear
of angering the Arab countries.
The question arises as to whether the
U.S. is concerned about Arab opinion or
May-be it’s not too late to recall the
War I song that began:
There’s been a lot of argument
Going on, they say,
As to whether dear old England \
Should have gone into the fray
• •
So far Russia has not carried out its
threats to act against Britain and France
over Egypt. In warfare Russia will be
unlikely to do anything as gentlemanly as
to threaten openly. It will strike in the
most silent and treacherous way available.
• •
While Communists in Britain and
America are resigning from the party
over events in Hungary, Sydney Comrades
are still faithful to Uncle Joe’s blood-
brothers. They see the Hungarian revolt
as an imperialist, Fascist, landlord con-
spiracy. At the end of the week the
Kadar Government was appealing to the
miners, railwaymen and other workers
to end their general strike. Miners and
railwaymen, of course, are notorious for
their sympathy with imperialists and
Fascist landlords.
• •
The Sydney “Tribune,” Australian
Communism’s official organ, sees Mr.
Menzies’s attack on U.N.O. as an indica-
tion that the West is getting “set for
world war.” But it says that a “mighty
peace-force bars the way.” Anybody can
have two free guesses about the identity
of that force: The one which has been
dictating peace with tanks in Hungary?*
Or Nasser’s invincibles who handed over
huge Russian military-supplies to the
Israelis at Gaza after firing scarcely a
shot?
• •
Cahill is said to be gambling on a drop
in the “C”-series index this quarter,
based on the fact that the last figure
included abnormal prices for spuds and
also his own Government’s increased
freights and fares. He could be right,
as far as the six-cities index is concerned,
but the N. S. Wales index has to swallow
the 11s. a week he has just added to the
State basic wage.
Supposing the index does fall, will
Cahill be resolute enough to stick to
quarterly adjustments in the event of the
Trades Hall deciding the time has come
to drop them?
• •
Although Menzies didn’t tell the
Liberals’ Federal council quite as much
about the economic situation as he
subsequently gave the Premiers, he did
say that the encouraging tendency for our
overseas reserves to increase had removed
the threat of a devaluation of the
currency through exchange depreciation.
“I believe,” he said, “it has been removed
for a long, long time.”
• •
In a forthright talk to the Liberal
party’s Federal council the Prime
Minister showed his resentment with the
Doc.’s attitude. He didn’t believe
that it is any contribution to the -world’s
peace to have Great Britain and France
treated as if they were on all fours with the
Soviet Union. That is how the Leader of
the Opposition treats them... .There has
been more passion from the Labor party
about the Anglo-French action in Egypt
than there has been about the murder of
Hungary What sort of a desiccated
world are we living in? What sort of an
airy-fairy international community is this?
Menzies was emphatic that if it had not
been for the action of Britain and France
there would have been no talk of a U.N.
force in Egypt. He then went on to
criticise vigorously the exclusion of
British and French troops from that
force. This was not criticism of the
United Nations as such, as Evatt, Haylen
and Co. and some newspapers tried to
make out, but it was criticism of those
members of the United Nations who had
decided for some inexplicable reasons
that the Anglo-French forces should not
serve as the nucleus of a U.N. force with
power and authority.
• •
In preparation for a visitor who had
stressed that he didn’t want any formality,
AWAY OUT IN FRONT!
about Arab oil. It is deeply interested m
the oilfields of Saudi Arabia; production
by the Arabian American Oil Co.
(Aramco) being recently over a million
barrels a day. Aramco is jointly owned
by Standard Oil Co. (N.J.), Socony Mobil,
Standard Oil of California and the Texas
Corp., and these companies are equally
interested in the Trans-Arabian Pipeline
Co., which delivers 320,000 barrels of
Kuwait oil a day at Sidon, in Lebanon.
The Kuwait oilfield is phenomenally rich,
and well worth the attention of supporters
of the Republican party.
• •
Who sold the dailies that yarn about
two small boys in Budapest destroying
10 Russian tanks with petrol-bottle
bombs? It was part of the “eye-witness”
stock-in-trade in the Spanish civil war,
and wasn’t really believed even then.
• *
By a process almost as difficult as
passing through the eye of a needle,
Leslie Bury, aged 43, became the chosen
Liberal for the safe Wentworth Federal
seat among 50 aspirants. He is an
Englishman who came to Australia at
22, was snapped-up as a coming man by
Sir Alfred Davidson (of the ’Wales) and
is currently an executive director for
Australia and South Africa of the Inter-
national Bank . and the International
Monetary Fund, He could be an M.P.
with a future.
• •
There are frequent reports from
Moscow that Khrushchev speaks under
the influence of liquor on occasion.
Russia’s current proceedings suggest that
everybody at the Kremlin is fighting-
drunk all the time. All its policies come
back to the old Tsarist aim—world
conquest by Russia..
“In the ACT”: Attacks by Ward and
criticism by Evatt of the Security
Intelligence Organisation cut little ice in
the Reps., especially as they coincided
with the growing tension in the Middle
East. The Government was unmoved by
suggestions that salaries and other details
should be made public, and even less
impressed by strident generalities about
“civil liberties.” Killen, a Queensland
Liberal who is the’target of attacks by
frustrated and ageing front - bench
“Labor” men, pointed out that Chifley,
and even Evatt himself, protected the
secrecy of the organisation when in
office, and that its methods and structure
had not been changed. Discussing the
lack of peace-time powers for dealing
with espionage, which had been stressed
by the Petrov commission, Killen
suggested an approach to the U.K. Gov-
ernment, through the “requesting power’
of the Statute of Westminster, for the
Treason and Felony Act to be applied
to Australia, and also urged the setting-up
of an un-Australian Activities Com-
mittee. ‘‘McCarthyism,” cried
Opposition benches.
• •
“M.”: The “pious hopes” expressed by
at least one party-leader at the breaking-
up of N. S. Wales State Parliament (B.
7/11/ ’56) were unequivocally expressed.
M. F. Bruxner, of the C.P., remarked that
the fact that “Great Britain once again
appears in her old-time role of making
decisions and acting on them.... is for
the good of the whole world,” and that
the Country party is “behind them.”
• •
As the millionth road casualty was
recorded, the Commonwealth Bureau ot
Statistics reviewed road accidents for the
March quarter of this year. It seems that
Australia will continue to see more than
2000 persons killed and about 50,000
injured each year, a casualty total which
would cause outcry if registered by rail-
ways or airways. The causes are all
classified —excessive speed, failing to give
right-of-way, inattentive driving, over-
taking or following a vehicle too closely,
failure to give or observe traffic-signs
and -signals, and so on. Obviously, some-
thing more is needed than unheeded
admonitions. Perhaps a Society of Road
Sufferers, ihe bereaved and the injured,
might be able to insist on legislative and
other measures to restrain the careless
and the reckless.
“Mugga Way”: There were some
unusual features about the Premiers’
conference, one being the presence in
the spectators’ seats of business tycoon
W. J. Smith, who was with his son-in-
law, the President of the Senate, and of
some Young Liberals, male and female,
who had wagged it from the Federal-
council meeting of the party to see
what went on. Some A.L.P. Federal-
executive members also appeared in the
Gallery, but they weren’t asked for their
reactions to Cahill’s declaration that
“Labor” Premiers were under no instruc-
tions, and * that the Premiers, did not
approach these gatherings from a political
viewpoint. Another change was the rapid
provision of verbatim transcripts of the
public sessions. This was a boon to
reporters, who often find difficulty in
hearing all the remarks around the centre
table to the House, and a godsend to
political commentators, who were thus
able to quote accurately even if they
didn’t always predict correctly.
• •
Sir Anthony Eden during the weekend
remarked to a meeting of Young Con-
servatives that “surprise had been
expressed at the vast extent of the capture
of Soviet equipment by Israel forces in
the Sinai Peninsula,” and asked
Who can doubt that aggressive plans were
carefully laid? They had, indeed, been pro-
claimed. .. .No one should have doubled tnat
an explosion was inevitable sooner or later.
The deep divide between the Communist Powers
and the free world had been seoretly dug
beneath the surface of the Middle Eastern
countries.
The Americans were all against the
use of force to ensure the maintenance of
international right of passage through the
canal. Now Hoover, deputy of the
Secretary of State, has come out as the
champion of the idea that the users ol
the canal “must be given assurance ot
free and undiscriminating passage” at all
costs. The U.S. is now seemingly mainly
concerned with ousting the British and
taking control.
• •
“Russian athletes at Olympic Village saw for
the first time boomerang-throwing. A Russian
official said: ‘Our craftsmen back in Russia
will make us these and we will soon be able to
throw them as good as the Australians.
Its mystery completely to master,
To hurl it much further and faster
Thqn Binghi is Ivan's intention ;
He’ll give our black brother a trouncing
In tournaments, after announcing
The thing is a Russian invention.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
All the machines appear to be made in
Australia, except that petrol-models use
imported two-stroke engines. In the U.S.,
where such machines are in the “bare
necessity” class, along with a second TV-
set and auto, they have wheeled-seat
attachments for the operator steering
the mower around his estate.
This may be next year’s thrill
for Australia, but by then the
American gadgeteers will be
rejoicing in an attachment which
enables an electric hand-drill to
start the petrol-motor, eliminat-
ing the winding of a length of
cord around a pulley and giving
a good sharp pull.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Television
advertising-rates of £2O for
20-seconds, or £5O a minute,
come high considering the
restricted range and audience.
Still, this suits the viewer—one
channel has had only five
advertisers at time of writing.
“Bagot”: Guy Fawkes’s
Night was celebrated in the
Sydney press for passing almost
uncelebrated, but a Perth bloke
is likely to remember the Fifth
of November for a long time.
Entertaining the kids in the
backyard he was persuaded by
Mum to speed-up the proceed-
ings by discarding his matches
and lighting the fuses with a
cigarette—a great idea, until he absent-
mindedly shoved a thin but powerful
hunger in his mouth and chucked away
the fag.
<&
“Nunk”: A 6ft. Bin., 18-stone man in
trousers only who dived six times under
threshing ferry-screws at Circular Quay,
Sydney, has shown ferry gap-jumpers,
both ship-to-shore and shore-to-ship, a
new way of entertaining the public.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Tiki Tapu” (N.Z.) • It was about 1888
that I saw Sydney first, and the most
useful transport vehicle was a two-horse
drag on four wheels which trotted
vigorously downhill and across the flat,
but groaned at Sydney’s steep rises. A
pleasant Irishman on a powerful coach-
horse at the foot of a sharp pinch hitched
on-to the front of our two horses and up
we went. At the top of the hill he un-
hitched and with much blarney returned
for further custom. We later went to
Melbourne and changed trains at a village
called Albury because of some argument
about gauges that has doubtless long been
settled ... We did the trip in 26 hours,
and found progressive Melbourne with a
remarkable cable-tram service. Yet a
year or two back when I flew through
Mascot to Brisbane to farewell an out-
going Boer War acquaintance and was
coming back from Moreton Bay in the
twilight, we were halted in Brisbane City
by an important-looking railway-guard
with a green flag in his pocket, a lamp in
AUSTRALIAN politicians need not
fear that the younger generation will
forget them. A girl at St. Ives, Sydney,
wrote in her exam.-paper that Alfred
Deakin was martyred in Canterbury
Cathedral —“at the time,” she added a
trifle confusingly, “when Henry 12th was
on the bone.” —“S.”
❖ *>
“Willpar”: Webster’s informs me with
heavy irony that the Olympian Games
formed the most notable of the four great
Panhellenic festivals and that a general
peace was maintained throughout the
festival, and for a week before it began
and after it ended. I had turned it up to
check what everyone is saying, that the
Games’ stamps should read “XVlth
Olympic Melbourne, 1956,” and not
“Olympiad,” which means the four years
between Olympic meets.
*l* *l*
“Awfeus”: Prize for the Most Original
Contribution to Melbourne’s Olympic
concerts goes to Mr. Dorian le Gallienne
for asking that his ballet-suite be with-
drawn because it was the only Melbourne
work besides the prize-winning “Olympic
Overture” to be chosen for performance.
❖ ' *
“8.A.H.”: Our alleged spring unleashed
a bewildering array of power-driven
lawnmowers upon the green Australian
press; a Sydney daily carried a full
supplement, and my suburban paper ran
a page ad. illustrating the dozen-or-so
different models available at one store.
one hand and a red flag in the other. The
motoring public took it all in good part
as he led a slow-moving train across the
busy thoroughfare. Who rides the coach-
horses in Sydney nowadays—lrishmen?
* * .
*
“R.E.”: A youthful barrister in Mel-
bourne County Court was examining a
defendant for debt. The witness sup-
ported a wife and four young children.
“How much are your weekly earnings?”
“Sixteen pounds,” returned the defendant
nervously. “How much do you give your
wife?” “Thirteen pounds.” “You must
live very well, then?” said the barrister,
“Were the Joneses you're going to have to keep up with."
“your tiny feet are frozen, Mimi ."
“Have you tried to keep four children on
thirteen pounds?” queried the judge.
Apparently single, the barrister had no
answer for this. “No order,” commented
His Honor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dhas”: Chinese girls are pretty, as
are girls of all nations, but when, like the
girls of the Chinese opera now in Sydney,
they are painted pink-and-white until
their faces above the odd brown stalk of
the neck look like peach-blossoms, they
are absolutely ravishing. Obviously,
however ancient the tradition may be,
this is an attempt tfe look as much like a
European as possible; and I would take
it as an immense compliment to our race
if it wasn’t equally obvious that our own
sunbathing girls are trying to look as
much like the Chinese as possible.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Irving”: Army service does tend to
make lasses familiar with strong language
(B. 17/10/’56); I cite an Awas lieutenant
with several girls under her charge lost
in the maze of a General Details Depot
during demobilisation in 1946. Eventu-
ally she found the office of the depot
C. 0., and asked the R.S.M. to show her in
to the old man. The R.S.M. went in and
announced: “Lieutenant Smith asks to
be paraded to you, sir.” With not a
thought as to the sex of his caller the
harassed Old Man barked an instruction,
in effect, to advise Lieutenant Smith to
retire to a certain premises. To the blush-
ing R.S.M. the Awas officer cooed:
“Sergeant-major, would you
please give the colonel my
thanks for the only definite
instruction I’ve been able
to get in this place all day?”
❖ ❖
“Kate”: At a children’s
film-night in a church hall
one lad had smuggled-in his
Labrador dog. When a
tense scene in the picture
showed a villain silently
stalking the hero and the
villain was about to plunge
a dagger into the hero’s
back, the Labrador rose
with a sudden deep growl
and looked like attacking
the screen. The lights
flashed on,; the lad grabbed
his dog by the collar and
headed for the door; and
I’m still wondering if the
Labrador is still wondering
how it all ended.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex-Ped.”: An A.B.C.
announcer always refers to
Ihe weather - experts as
“we/trologists.” Is this
because they work with so
many meters anemo-,
baro-, hygro-, pluvio-, thermo- and what-
not—or because he is just another of the
word-surgeons who perform syllablec-
tomy—syncope or symeresis if you
prefer a genuine Greek-pedigreed word
f°r it—on so many of our common
words? We expect to hear “eventuly,”
“secetry,” “Febury,” “particuly,”
“prelimary,” “deteriate” from honorable
gentlemen in other places, b(Ut surely not
f rom A.B.C. “circles,” ‘ sources” or
“spokesmen for.”
* *
* * *
“Doynest”: Before my 16-year-old lad
went into camp with his school cadet-
corps I presented him with his first razor.
It cost only a few shillings, with half-a-
dozen blades thrown in, but it was a neat
little safety-type, with a plastic-“ivory”
handle; and I felt that, though he
wouldn’t have much use for it yet, he
wouldn’t care to admit that he didn’t
even own one. “How did the razor go?”
I asked on his return. “Oh, all right,
Dad,” he replied, eyeing me reproach-
fully, “but most of the chaps had electric
ones.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.F.”: I suppose this, from our subur-
ban daily, might be called a masterpiece
of anticlimax:
DO YOU REALLY WANT
A Home? Can you find £4OO for the
deposit and £6 p.w. repayment? If so, see
this old W.B. cottage....
❖ * *
“R.W.”: I have just come across a par.
by “8.A.K.” (B. 16/5/’56) about a photo-
graph taken at a dinner given by Hugh
D. Mclntosh on Armistice Night, 1919.
“8.A.K.” lists the names autographed
on the photograph, but it is obvious from
a comparison with a list of Australian
V.C.-winners in the R.S.L. Year Book
that some errors have been made in his
reading of the signatures. “W. Mark,
V.C., D. 5.0.,” is Major Blair Wark, who
died while serving in the Second World
War, “G. Canluneeght, V.C.,” is G. Cart-
wright, and “F. C. Bonella, V.C.,” is A. C.
Borella, V.C., M.M. Evidently men who
make their mark in battle are no better
at making their marks on paper than
doctors, novelists, dictators, etc.
* ♦> ❖
OTORIES of Government files take me
back to the bar of a sergeants’ mess,
Army Pay Corps, War 11, and a'sergeant
declaring that Administrative and Record
offices were run by W.O.s and N.C.O.s,
and that officers signed anything put in
front of them without reading it. There
was a bet; and next day the sergeant
slipped his test-letter in the middle of a
pile to be signed. Records duly received
a letter asking for a nominal roll of
deceased personnel who had re-enlisted
after interment—properly signed. The
sergeant’s confederate in Records played
his part; the reply, signed “Captain,
O-I.C. Records,” said that he would
endeavor to have the roll compiled, but
it presented difficulties, as in his personal
experience of handling recruits, dating
back to the Crimean War, he had found
that deceased personnel who re-enlisted
after interment usually did so under an
assumed name. But instead of reaching
the sergeants’ mess as a valuable trophy,
the file got into the hands of the first
officer-signatory ; and although he badn t
a leg to stand on no one was game to ask
him what he had done with it. —“P.C.M.
THE TORCH
From Cairns to Melbourne, night and
day,
The Torch of athletes flies and flames,
Lighting the runners' tropic way
With burning feet towards the Games :
They take the rivers in their stride,
And where they can’t, they thumb a
ride.
They run though fanged by Queensland
snakes,
But deadlier enemies of Man’s,
The Motorists, put on their brakes,
Charmed by such swift pedestrians;
No Forest Ranger, red with ire,
Appears and shouts: “Put out that
fire !”
Anxious enough the scene, indeed,
To which the Torch will be the star:
How many nations will secede ?
Will those who come here go too far?
There need not be complete despair —
At least Australia will be there!
O little Torch ! O all we have
Among the bombs and insults hurled
Between the cradle and the grave;
O candle in a naughty world,
You must feel often out-of-place
In showing-up the Human Race !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


R OWING history has been made during
the Murray floods. Current and
debris being too much of a hazard in
the main stream, a four-oared crew
practise in Mannum’s (S.A.) main street.
The half-mile shopping centre with its
placid 12ft. of water makes an ideal
course. When they want a spell the crew
rest at the pub balcony.—“ Old Opencut.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Harbel”: The huge truck laden with
steel bars swung across the path of the
little utility, scratched along its duco,
dented a mudguard, and didn’t stop. The
driver of the ute slowed immediately,
tooted, then set off in pursuit. Halfway
across Pyrmont Bridge he passed the
truck, then tried to edge it into the
kerb. The truck bore down ruthlessly.
Discretion alone saved the little vehicle.
Farther on, the ute cut-in again—and
came even closer to complete demolition.
After that the utility just sat in behind.
When our car turned off —at Newtown,
some three miles away—the little-’un was
still tagging the big-’un. Wonder what
happened when the truck reached its
destination. By the expression on the face
of the husky young ute-driver, something
was going to.
♦> * *
“Kate”: A tailor in Prahran (Vic.) is
allowing £3 trade-in on each new suit;
just for a rag, no doubt.
*X*
“S.”: I went into Challis House in
Sydney to buy a railway-ticket to Mel-
bourne. The clerks at the information-
centre live behind a square counter. I
went to one side of it. After I had waited
ten minutes a clerk, who would have had
to walk a whole ten feet to reach me,
called out: “What do you want? Come
round here if you want information.” So
I went round to the front. Then, when
I was buying the ticket, I asked the clerk
“G'day, Dad , g'day , Mum —meet Hazel —which is our room?”
if I could have a window-seat facing the
engine. He said, “I wouldn’t have a clue.”
What he meant was, “I shall ring up and
inquire for you, sir.” What on earth is
the cause of this awful tradition of
incivility?
❖ *> +♦♦
“F.”: Sir Anthony Eden told the
House of Commons, according to my
Sydney “Herald” of November 8, that
Britain had suggested to Mr. Hammar-
skjoeld that “the Anglo-British force
should be used to clear obstructions in
the Canal to get it operating again.”
Very English.
“Mancunian”: The use of the term
“manchester” for manufactured cotton
goods, and particularly household linen,
seems to be peculiar to Australia and
New Zealand. An Englishwoman, visit-
ing us from London, was surprised at the
use of this term in our shops and said that
she had never heard or seen it so used in
'England.
. * *i*
“Q.Ree” (Fiji): Mentioned to a friend
that my two-year-old son is late talking,
though he babbles away in a baby-
language as though trying to tell us some-
thing. Friend replied dhat their son was
the same, and they despaired of his learn-
ing to talk until the day he saw the
garden-boys itching to lay their hands on
the child, babbling away in the garden,
swearing at them in Fijian.
4 ❖ 4*
“Ardoyne”: In Unk White’s sketch of
a company board-room (B. 7/11/ ’56) all
the directors’ chairs, not merely some,
should have been occupied by automata.
Unlike most occupations, that of company
director requires no knowledge, skill,
or, indeed, any qualification whatever
apart from a set number of shares ; hence
a board composed of automata suitably
geared to signify assent to the manager’s
or secretary’s propositions would be
preferable to the assortment of deadheads
who talk around the most obvious pro-
posals, defer consideration of urgent
matters, and are liable to hold up or even
knock back the raising of staff salaries.
Depreciation on automata, which, con-
sidering their intermittent use, would be
very light, should work out af far less
than the fees now paid to human directors.
As a company secretary myself, I’m
wholeheartedly for automation.
*l* $
“Tom Trout”: Local Bumbles who
bestow immortality on each other by way
of street-names should be delighted by
the Italian system, which perpetuates
Christian as well as surnames—not just
“Smith-st.” but the “Street of John J.
Smith” —and sometimes adds to the name-
plate a potted biography as encomium,
thus: “Man of Municipal Affairs,
Poetaster, and Regenerator of the
Garbage Collection System, 1841-1927.”
Dates are also used as street-names, as for
Rome’s “Twentieth of September-street.”
These are oddly tantalising. While one
never seems to care who J. J. Smith was,
one is nagged by curiosity as to what
did happen on September 20 —or
November 4 or the innumerable other
dates —and in what year?
* * *
“8.A.H.”: An invitation to attend a
convention in Washington D.C. t came
with a reply-card to a Washington hotel.
mm
VACCIffi
4#*
I was intrigued to note that no charge
for bed was made by the hotel for
children 14-years and under when
occupying a room with one or both
parents. Picture the crisis if such
outrageous generosity showed any sign
of infecting the Down Under pubs! On
the other hand, prices quoted were
subject to a “three per cent. DC. sales-
tax” —a sinister precedent lurking some-
where, waiting discovery by our A.C.T.
Treasury-boys.
* * *
“Morbid Ezza”: Coming out of a
modern-art exhibition, three women
talked for a while on the pavement; the
young and gay one gesticulated with
charming vivacity, then took her leave
in a swirl of silk and an obscuration of
hat. The older of the remaining women
said to her companion in a clear, firm
voice: “Silly as a picture, isn’t she?”
♦>
“Zorok”: I see where one of the
runners who carried the Olympic torch
was heckled and jeered-at because he
“ran” his distance riding on the foot-
board of a truck. Inaptly enough, this
very unOlympian proceeding took place
at a township called Rollingstone.
$ ❖
“Charles”: Current criticism of
Queensland trains makes an old com-
mercial-traveller question whether the
service was really so bad when goods-
trains not scheduled to stop at small
country-stations obligingly picked-up a
passenger who stood on the platform
holding aloft a bottle of the best; or
when a hat flew out the window of a
mixed and a tap on the guard’s-van by
a passenger leaning from the carriage
stopped the train, which willingly backed
about 300yds. to enable the hat to be
recovered.
<♦ ❖
“J.D.W.”: Marketing domestic-grade
apples and pears, plums, quinces and
honey-in-the-comb in what it claims to be
the pioneer self-serve roadside stall in
New Zealand (it has been operating some
years now), the Riverside Community at
Lower Moutere, rural Nelson, has no One
in attendance and provides open tills for
payment at marked prices. Lapses are
few, they told me, and in the seven months
it was open this year the stall netted more
than £l2OO.
* * *>
“Uramao”: The Russian delegation of
agriculturists, led by the Deputy Minister
of Agriculture, G. I. Voronov, who
visited New Zealand at the invitation of
the N.Z. Government, were well pleased
with all they saw. But while the party
of five were inspecting the Wallaceville
Animal Research Station Y. A. Busurin,
speaking in Russian, inquired of an
employee what he was doing with the
wool-press. Before the interpreter could
translate the inquiry, the New Zealander,
Jozef Chwieduk, afforded the information
in Russian. Asked how he acquired the
language, Jozef said he spent two years
in prison in the Urals. “I was deported
from Poland and later joined Genera 1
Anders’s army. My first wife died in
Russia,” explained the new New Zea-
lander. The embarrassed Russians tried
to end the interview, but Jozef persisted.
“You look well-dressed and well-fed.
What about the others we don’t see? Is
the new Russia better today than it was
when Stalin was killing hundreds of
thousands of Russians?” The Soviet
reps, stopped to hear no more but went
about the inspection of the animals,
prisoners which can be trusted to tell no
tales.
* * ❖ .
“O.W.W.”: Son, just turned 21, came
home from his first day out with Dad,
and informed the family: “I know now
what ready money means —it’s what Dad
has in his hand when the barman calls
Time!’”
<♦ ❖
“Pioneer Paddy”: The manager of a
Hobart business was disturbed by a
P.M.G. lad with a telegram.
The manager, being a
friendly type, remarked that
it was a cold morning for
spring. The messenger
propped himself up against
the door, pushed his cap on
the back of his head and
said solemnly, “It’s cold
all right. These blasted
scientists can say what they
like —there’ll be no better
weather until they stop
letting off these Masonic
bombs! ”
“T.M.”: The sleepy street came to life
when two of its three-year-olds
disappeared. While one of the mothers
hunted the near and far streets,
desperately peered under bushes and
through sweet-shop windows, the second
mother walked up and down the street
calling in a small voice for her darling
to return. Two hours and one police-
S.O.S. later the errants emerged unaided
and unclothed from the direction of a
seven-mile-long and mile-wide gully
where they’d been sampling the delights
of the waterhole. “You know, I had a
feeling all along that they’d gone down
there,” Mrs. Small-voice confided, clutch-
ing a damp truant safely to her bosom.
“Well, why didn’t you go down and
look?” I asked. “What? That gully is
alive with snakes and ticks. It’d take
something to get me down there.”
♦> ❖
“Avon”: Commemorating the 75th
anniversary of its meat-export trade, New
Zealand will have ships and sheep on its
stamps for the first time in many years.
The eightpenny orange depicts the sail-
ing-ship Dunedin, which took 98 days to
reach London with 5000 carcasses of
mutton, and the Port Brisbane, which
can land 350,000 there in 30 days, Middle
East permittihg. The fourpenny blue
displays a prime lamb astride the
Dominion.
* ❖
“MacHoots”: I hope Mr. Emanuel
Shinwell did say, as the Sydney “Herald”
reported, that opinion in the British
Labor Party about Eden’s march on the
canal was “unanimous, but not quite.”
It seems to sum-up the whole situation in
a nutshell.
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: That Carlton (Vic.) business-
man who hangs pictures from artist
friends in his office (B. 7/11/ ’56) took me
back 40 or more years to what might
now be called the old Collins-st. under-
ground cafe known as Politzer’s, whose
walls were decorated with the paintings;
etc., of Melbourne artists, mostly for
sale. I seem to remember that some of
the hotels in Cornwall, particularly in
Penzance and St. Ives, provided similar
opportunity for the large colony of
painters who congregate thereabouts.
* *1* ❖
How Old Is Your Son?
Mature enough to appreciate The
Bulletin? Then why not give him a
year’s subscription for Christmas? No
need to pay now —just fill-in the gift-
subscription form in this issue and post
it. Towards Christmas he will receive a
card announcing youf gift. An account
for 48s. will be sent to you in the New
Year. This type of announcement always
concludes with—“Do it now.” And that’s
not a bad idea.
WHIRLIGIG
Mrs. Hislop every morning
Rose St six to race the clock
On the kitchen wall —a warning,
Every tick and every tock.
Husband bustled,
Children hustled,
Housework scrambled —
Never ambled,
But to speed was just as zealous
As the clock to measured pace . . .
Till at last momentum, jealous,
Whirled her off to outer space.
Some believe a comet non-stop
Through the night is what they see.
They are wrong; it’s Mrs. Hislop
Trying to race eternity.
N.S.W.
E. Norman.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The Bulletin congratulates Big Bill
(Lieut.-Gen. Sir William) Bridgeford on
his tremendous job in generalship as
chief executive officer of the Olympics in
Melbourne.
He’s big, rugged, transparently sincere,
with a cheerful grin and an amiable out-
look, and he has kept both from growing
wry by taking a day off soldiering during
the last lap of the Games’ preparation.
What we like to think is a typical Aus-
tralian-soldier type, he gets on with every-
body, even, in the last few weeks, with
the world’s press.
Bridgeford was knighted last May in the
Queen’s honors. A professional soldier
for 41 years, Duntroon graduate, he
served almost everywhere Australians
went in the last war. He reached the
top as C.-in-C. British Commonwealth
Occupation Forces in Japan and Korea
in 1951-52 —“a lighthouse of integrity,” as
one Japanese diplomat called him. A dis-
tinguished fellow, with many honors.
• •
“E. 8,”: John D. K. Roche, who
recently endowed Aquinas University
College, Adelaide, is a Victorian, born in
Melbourne and educated at St. Kilda and
St. Kevin’s C.B.C. He now lives at
Edgecliff, Sydney, has considerable in-
terests in property in Sydney and
Adelaide, and in stations in Western
Australia; two of these, Wandina, at
Mullewa, and Westfield, at Kojonup, are
show places. He has four daughters and
two sons. One of the sons manages the
Adelaide interests, the other is well known
as an international judge of dogs.
* •
In Australia looking for a firm to print
an Australian edition of the American
‘‘Time” newsmagazine, Bert Chapman,
“Time’s” production-manager. Present
Pacific-edition is published in Tokyo,
, where positive - transparencies from
Chicago are delivered every Wednesday
night; four to five days later the magazine
is on our news-stands. An example of
American efficiency was the cover of the
American-elections issue (a color repro-
duction of “Ike” and Nixon) on sale here
less than a*week after the results. How?
Two covers were made ready in advance ;
the cover not used depicted Stevenson as
“The Winner.”
• •
“C.C.”: What he lacked in inches
Edward Needham, who has passed on at
82 in Perth, compensated for in drive and
capacity for work, particularly on behalf
of less-fortunate citizens. He held
executive office in many welfare-organisa-
tions, was president and life-member of
the Civilian Maimed and Limbless Asso-
ciation, and vice-president of the W.A.
Industrial School for the Blind; the
Kindergarten Union was another of
his special interests. Starting in
the Clyde shipyards when he was 12, he
came to Western Australia in 1901, to
work as a boilermaker’s-assistant in the
railway-workshops at Fremantle, and
three years later was elected to Parlia-
ment, representing Fremantle, when the
short-lived Daglish Ministry (Western
Australia’s first Labor Government)
came into power. He became a Senator,
was Leader of the Opposition in the
Senate for a time, then was unseated by
an election swing. He went back to the
Westralian Assembly as member for Perth
in 1933 and later represented North
Perth, retiring from politics in 1953.
• •
“Melboy”: It mystifies me how this
escaped the record-book. The week
Bannister first broke four minutes for the
mile, a 41-year-old marathoner, George
Oliver, unable to afford the fare to
Chichester, where he was entered for a
16-mile footrace, rose at 4 a.m. and ran
the 60 miles to Chichester in just under
eight hours. After an hour’s rest on a
park bench, Oliver lined-up for the 16-
miler and finished third in the handicap
section. He remarked before his well-
earned bus-and-train return home: “I
may not be fast, but I can finish the
course.” s
• •
“H.C.M.”: Australian-born (at Min-
yip, Victoria, 79 years ago) and in heart
and thought Australian to the end, John
R. Howard has passed on at Hudson,
New York State. Going from Victoria
to the Boer War, he had as a subaltern
there Winston Churchill. Heading back
to Australia via England, he stopped-off
in the U.S., joined the Reformed Church
of America, and married Miss Helen
Korff, who survives him. His latter years
as retired minister of the church had been
spent at Linlithgo, eight miles out of
Hudson, where he remained an Austra-
lian with a yearning for the Southern
Cross, the eucalypts, the corduroy roads
of the Gippsland of his day, and The
Bulletin, which he read avidly for the
Australia it gave him.
• •
Graham Nicoll, who caused a political
boilover when he beat Lord Mayor Frank
Selleck and many others in the Liberal
preselection for the Monash seat in the
Victorian Legislative Council, is another
of their active workers that the Libs,
have been favoring lately. Instead of
retiring huffily from other selection
scuffies when beaten, Nicoll came back
working harder. For a term a p.-0.-w. in
Java, he’s been a long-time president of
the Liberal Speakers’ Group, and is a
rapid but persuasive speaker. He will
add considerably to the Liberals’ silver
hairs in the Council, but his curls are
prematurely grey. He’s 43, and when he
enters the Council he’ll reduce the average
Liberal age there from 51 to just under
the 50. That will suit the younger
Liberals fine.
• •
Professor D. A. Kidd, who succeeds
Professor L. G. Pocock (retired) as
Professor of Classics at Canterbury
University College (N.Z.) next ,year, is
43, a graduate of Aberdeen and Cam-
bridge, and has been holding down a
similar job at Africa’s Gold Coast Univer-
sity College. Before that he was lecturing
at Aberdeen University, with Royal Navy
service in War II wedged in. A branch
of the Classical Association which he
established has done a lot for African
students.
• •
' Duncan Goldfinch, whose paintings
sold very briskly when he held an
exhibition at Sydney’s Grosvenor
Galleries some little while back, has been
living in Sydney this time about 12
months. Actually, he is a Sydneysider,
and spent most of his working life within
cpoee of the Harbor Bridge, but he went
to Adelaide on retirement from Dalgety’s
(like many another artist, he didn’t
depend on art for a livelihood), and
became president of the Royal South
Australian Society of Arts, which cele-
brated its centenary last month. A trip
to England, and many trips'into Central
Australia, helped to freshen his eye. He
was the first man to paint Ayers Rock
and Mount Olga—Namatjira, he men-
tioned in passing, couldn’t go there to
paint; outside his tribal territory—and
PAINTER
became eloquent when he spoke of what
Central Australia has to offer the artist.
Of Ayers Rock —“A pebble rising eleven-
hundred-feet from the level sand, terra-
cotta red, going into all the colors of the
world when the sun sets.”
• •
“C.A.A.”: A pilgrimage to the Geelong
(Vic.) grave of James Harrison by the
Australian Institute of Refrigeration
marked the centenary of ice-making in
this country. Harrison, a writer of con-
siderable ability, was deputed by Fawkner
to start a newspaper at Geelong in 1839 —
the first provincial paper. He had experi-
mented with an ice-making plant on the
Barwon River, and in 1856 took out a
British patent “for the production of cold
by the evaporation of volatile liquids in
vacuo.” In 1859 he began to make ice in
Geelong and later opened a plant in Mel-
bourne. In 1873 he provided refrigera-
tion for the first shipment of beef to
England in the sailer, Norfolk, but the
trial was not a success. A member ofc
Parliament for some years, Harrison died
in 1893.
• •
Met in Perth, where he lectured at the
invitation of the Museum and Art
Gallery trustees, Peter Scott, 45-year-old
son of Captain Robert Falcon Scott, the
Antarctic explorer. A distinguished man
in his own right, Peter Scott has an inter-
national reputation as a painter, ornitholo-
gist, explorer and yachtsman. When at
home, he’s head of the Severn Wildfowl
Trust in Gloucestershire. On his visit
here he will judge sailing events at the
Olympic Games.
• •
Drawn by Such at the Bush Pilots’
’drome in Cairns, here is Captain Bob
Norman, who started that valuable
organisation. A Maryborough (Q.) lad,
he went to Cairns in 1933 and at the out-
break of war went for air-crew in the
R.A.A.F., missed out on educational
qualifications, worked under a tutor for
12 months, and then joined as a truck-
driver. Pretty soon he was doing a
pilot’s course at Sandgate, Archerfield
and Narromine, then on to Canada and
PILOT
England. He flew Baltimores and other
types in the Middle East, returned to
Cairns at war’s end and went into
business. Flying Tigers with the Aero
Club in his spare time, he formed Bush
Pilots’ Airways in 1951 after a heroic
rescue of a sick woman in the outback of
the Peninsula. The B.P. Airways is
owned by 70 graziers in the Gulf and
Peninsula, and Bob and four others fly
the four Auster Autocars. He lives in a
beautiful home surrounded by a tropical
garden with wife Betty and three children.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Japanese Rotarian delegate
Kiyoshi Togasaki called in briefly on
Canberra before attending the Sydney
conference and talked to fellow-news-
papermen and others. Chairman of the
English-language “Japan Times,” he was
induced to speak a little about the Aus-
tralian-Japanese trade situation now being
discussed officially, but he was more
informative about the International
Christian University in Tokyo, of which
he is chief of the board of directors. He
remarked that there was a responsibility
on the part of all nations facing the
Pacific “to keep it pacific,” and explained
that the university, established in 1949,
had a faculty which included Americans,
Canadians, British, Germans, Chinese and
Japanese. The student-body was even
more international, and included Indians,
Indonesians and Thailanders. Mentioning
also a programme which enabled some
students to spend one year studying in
Tokyo before returning to their own
universities in their own countries, lie said
he hoped some Australian students and
a professor or two would become
interested.
• •
f
Clifford L. B. Hubbard came into The
Bulletin late one afternoon and asked
the price of a Scorfield drawing, a politi-
cal cartoon. But it wasn’t anything to
do with our politicians that-Hubbard,
an Englishman, here on a working holi-
day—he was then ‘ employed at the
Government Printer’s—was interested in.
He was interested in dogs; the Scorfield
cartoon included the best drawing of a
certain type of dog he had ever seen, and
he wanted it for his collection.
Subsequent talk revealed that the col-
lection runs to some 3000 volumes, in
26 languages; Hubbard’s ambition is to
have a complete collection of everything
published on dogs, in all languages.
Asked how it all started, he said his
PROFESSOR JOHN GREENWAY,
American collector of Australian
folksongs
first job after leaving school was at a
Bath “dog bureau”- —shop. The boss was
a vet., the wife ran the shop, and young
Hubbard helped both. Embarrassed
because he wasn’t sure of his breeds, he
bought a book on the subject; five-bob
down and five-bob a week. That started
the collector’s fever. The earliest book
in his collection which is concerned
exclusively with dogs is De Canibus
Britannicis, 1570, author Dr. Caius,
Elizabeth’s physician, and co-founder of
Caius and Gonville Colleges, Cambridge:
a translation of this book, made six years
later, is the earliest book on the subject
in English. Rarest is a signed copy of
an album of Siberian dogs, 1896, by
Prince Andrew Shirinsky, which was
presented to the president of the English
Kennel Club of the time. Fastened with
silk tapes, it is 3ft. sin. across.
Now 43, Hubbard was an R.A.F. pilot.
His own 21st book on dogs came out last
year. He edited The “Observer's ” Book
of Dogs (1945), which has gone into
Swedish, Dutch, Italian and Spanish
editions, in that order, and into six English
editions. He’s met Robert Kaleski, is
chasing a first edition (1914) of Australian
Barkers and Biters, and is interested in the
Australian dingo, about which he knows
rather more than the average Australian
—in fact, he owns one. He bought her
from the Maidstone Zoo, as a pup, and
lent her to Whipsnade Zoo when he came
on his visit here.
• •
“Jindy”: The outcome of the 1952
Commonwealth talks in London on the
pound sterling is now a forgotten page of
the P.M.’s travel-book. Had it not been
for an overseas magazine, the same fate
might have been accorded one of the
P.M.’s doodle-pad moments during the
talks:
With singular agility
And technical facility
We seek convertibility
Which means (I’ll have you know)
A quid for every quo
• •
“Uramao”: Alan Morris Rapson, who
gets a Doctorate of Science for his marine-
biology researches from the University of
New Zealand, spent from 1947 till 1953
as a biologist in Australia, going thence
to the Fisheries Department in New
Guinea. Marine research took him to the
Antarctic in the Discovery 11. He’s a
product of Auckland Grammar School
and Victoria University College, Welling-
ton, where (in 1938) he won his M.Sc.
with honors in zoology.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 59, Oscar Werner Teigs,
F.R.S., D.Sc., Professbr of Zoology at Mel-
bourne University. He graduated B.Sc. from
Adelaide Uni. in 1919, became lecturer at Mel-
bourne Uni. in 1924, and was appointed to the
chair of Zoology in 1948. Author of standard
texts on entomology.
In Sydney, at 58, Alexander Higham Dickins,
managing-director of A. H. Dickins and Co..
chartered accountants,, deputy-chairman of
Tooheys, director of the Commercial Banking
Co. and of United Insurance.
At Oaro (N.Z.), Miria Amelia Horomona
Solomon, high-ranking chieftainess of the
Ngatikahungunu tribe, and known throughout
N.Z. for her humanitarian qualities by Maori
and Pakeha, especially by the Maoris of
Chatham Islands. She was the sole survivor
of the raid at Mohaka in 1869. A daughter
is married to E. T. Tirikatane, M.P. for the
Southern Maori electorate.
In Adelaide at 75, Brigadier A. M. Martyn,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., consulting engineer and
former Base Commandant in both W.A. and
S.A.




VABORIGINALITIES
HTHE doc. who charged 30 guineas for
stitching-up the publican’s horse (B.
17/10/’56) recalls the butcher who
approached the local solicitor and asked
if the owner of a dog which trespassed in
his shop was responsible for the damage.
The solicitor replied “Yes,” and next day
received an account: “To meat damaged
by your dog, 155.” The next day the
butcher got an account: “To advice re
dog 21s. Credit meat 15s. Balance 6s.” —
“P.C.M.”
* * * *
“Bluebottle”: The wheatbelt country-
side had broken out into a rash of hay-
stacks in the shade of which a few goats
were standing. The small girl with her
nose pushed against the train-window
turned to her mother: “Ooh, aren’t there
a lot of goat-houses about here?” she
said.
*•* * *
“Robbie”: The leaves of that hardy
evergreen, the cork-tree ( Duboisia spp.),
which isn’t a true cork, are providing
South Burnett (Q.) farmers with supple-
mentary income. The branches are cut
and stored while the leaves dry. These
are harvested by threshing with a flail,
after which the dry leaves are baled and
“Oh, no, old man —a WHITE tie with tails!”
shipped to the U.S., U.K., and France.
The dried leaves yield valuable drugs,
and bring up to £2OO a ton. Last year’s
harvest was worth over £30,000. Humans
and animals have been poisoned by eat-
ing the green leaves —the abos used to
pulverise and scatter them on the water
to drug fish. They also ground the leaves,
mixed them with other herbs, and inhaled
the smoke before tribal-ceremonies, the
effect being similar to that of benzedrine.
“Pillo”: Biggest snakeskin I’ve seen
sloughed was that of an eight-foot brown,
found on a bank of the Wimmera River
six miles from Horsham (Vic.). It was
displayed in a store-window of that town
for months.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The enthusiast who
introduced the motor-age in our district
might have had the same trouble with his
brakes as “J.B.’s” Old Stoodley (B.
31/10/’56); but his solution was to drive
straight through all the gates on the
road without opening them. In that time
and place, leaving gates open was
regarded as such a low trick that the more
self-respecting poddy-dodgers and moon-
lighters considered it beneath them. So
the landholders thirsted for the pioneer-
motorist’s blood. Getting wind of his
coming, they reinforced a gate by tying a
heavy wire between the gateposts at just
the right height. The car hit it with such
force that, while the body stopped, the
chassis kept going,
* * * *
“N.E.1.”: Near Symba, between
Borneo -and Darwin, there’s a flowery-
named isle on which A.I.F. guerrillas
warred. The highest mountain is Ineri,
and near it are three mountain-basins.
Because of the soil, each of these basins
contains a different-colored water. One
is red, one green, one royal-blue. Local
legend has it that these lakes are the
abode of spirits: old people after-death
haunt the blue lake ; those who die young
live for ever in the waters of the green
basin ; while the rich red crater holds the
souls of sorcerers and hoodoo-men. Since
the war the green waters have become a
richer green and it is said that the souls of
the brave “foreign warriors” have caused
this change.
* * * *
I‘M’boro”: The Maoris have gone for
motor-bikes in a big way, and in most
cases their enthusiasm for the thrill of
being transported at high speed and no
effort is only exceeded by their careless
handling of the bikes. 1 was in a garage
when something like a blue flahne
screamed in on smouldering tyres and
wearing brakes. As it jammed to a halt
against a bowser its Maori rider flopped
off nonchalantly and asked for petrol.
“Pai korri,” he said, “I nearly not make it.,
I have to go sixty miles an hour near
to get in from the Lake [about 50 miles
away] before I run out of petrol.”
* * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: The theory that
sheep-dogs fed on mutton would acquire
a taste for sheep (B. 31/10/’56) breaks-
down when applied to kangaroo-dogs.
’Roo-shooters in the north of W.A. use a
staghound-greyhound cross to build-up
the tally, and they find/jthat dogs fed
exclusively on ’roo-meat lose condition
and stamina and can’t hunt. So they buy
mutton for them, but, although those
dogs are trained to kill, they don’t tackle
the sheep. Don’t know why ’roo-meat
shouldn’t be sustaining, though it may be
part of Nature’s way of maintaining the
balance of species. After about-20,000
years of occupation the dingo hadn’t seri-
ously affected the native population, and
as far as is known it hadn’t caused the
extinction of any marsupial through prey-
ing on it. (It brought the Tasmanian wolf
arid tiger to the verge of extinction on the
mainland by beating them to the game,
not by killing them.) And this may have
been due to the lack of nutriment in a
purely marsupial diet. So the yellow
dog varied his menu. At low tide along
the 80-mile beach the dingoes feed on the
fish left stranded by the retreating tides.
Incidentally, the only track Dampier saw
near the beaches was that of a dingo.
* i- * *
“Kros”: The Mayflower 11, a replica
of the Mayflower which carried the 100
or 102 Pilgrim Fathers across the Atlantic
in 1620, was launched a month or so back
at Brixham (Devon). To be captained
(MiflK
f OSB SB®?
I LAIS AIUEJTS |
by Australian sea-author Alan Villiers,
she will sail on April 2 next year from
Plymouth (Eng.) for Plymouth (Massa-
chusetts), where she will be permanently
docked near a model “pilgrims’ village.”
The Atlantic crossing is expected to take
about 50 days. The first Mayflower also
went from Plymouth to Plymouth, of
course, but left at a different time of the
year (Sept. 6), and took longer—about 96
days. There are no blueprints of the
Mayflower extant, so her successor was
designed after thorough study of 17th-
century shipbuilding methods. She will
also be outfitted with 17th-century instru-
ments and equipment, the only 20th-
century gadgets aboard being rubber life-
rafts and radio.
* * * *
“Ophir”: Westralia’s poisonous snake
the gwardar (B. 3 /10/’56) also has its
habitat in Queensland’s artesian-belt. It
is common for one of them to be tossed-
out with the scoop of mud when a delver
gets to work on a bore-drain. Snakes are
notoriously vulnerable to hot water, yet
the gwardar seems able to live comfort-
ably in hot mud and within a few inches
of death by scalding.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Apparently they get some
murky mists in the Central Otago (N.Z.)
back-country. Asked a cobber just re-
turned from there if he saw much fog.
“No fog up there,” he said. “It’s just solid
cloud.”
* * * *
“Woonulla”: Those Westralian bores
and windmills (B. 31/10/’56) are picca-
ninnies compared with some in the sub-
artesian basin, north-west of Longreach
(Q.). sunk on Corona Station
between 1917-20 struck water at depths
varying from 920 ft. to 1560 ft. The
height to which the water rose in the bore-
hole, and from which it had to be
pumped, varied widely, but in several
cases the lift exceeded 400 ft. The mills
on Corona included several with vane-
wheels 27ft. in diameter, and one, on a
60ft. tower, had a 30ft. wheel. These were
stock-sizes made by the manufacturers.
The water was plentiful and excellent for
stock, though too highly mineralised for
humans or for irrigation. Closer-settle-
ment has since reduced the size of Corona
considerably,
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: From the veranda of my
jungle-bungalow I had a clear view of
a hombill-nest 50ft. up in a hollow tree.
Mama was sealed-in with her maternal
responsibilities, and Papa was more-
than busy providing. A langsat-tree was
the source of his supply, and he was
garnering a bounteous harvest from the
over-ripe windfalls that seemed to be just
Mum’s cup of tea. And for the quantity
and height to be dealt with, he had a
good technique. He picked the fruit up
singly and planted about eight in the
feathers on his back with a neck elastic-
ally reminiscent of a cormorant. Then
up to spouse, to whom he delivered by the
same technique in reverse.
* * * *
“H.K.J.”: The leaf-tailed night-lizard
(Gymnodactylus phyllurus ) is one of the
most bizarre of the various geckoes in
Australia—it has been called the world’s
quaintest lizard. Inhabiting the rain-
forests of Queensland and N.S.W., the
little fellow is nocturnal, though it is
sometimes seen moving about in day-
light in the deep shade of the dense
scrubs. Growing only 6in. long, it boasts
a flat, leaflike tail much wider than its
body, and when it flattens itself on a tree-
trunk or a branch its camouflage is
remarkable. Like other members of the
species, it is quite harmless, but puts up
a great show of bluff when disturbed.
When danger threatens, it will shed its
tail, which wriggles and twists to distract
the attention of the attacker while the
lizard scuttles to the shelter of a crack
or hollow. Feeding on small moths,
grubs, beetles and termites the little bloke
is one of the best friends of the man-on-
the*land.
* * * *
“Sack”: A musical ear must concede
that the common starling (B. 31 /10/’56)
has a melodious, gurgling song, and the
yellow-beaked variety with white splashes
on the wings (its advent in Sydney’s
suburbs is alleged to date from the time
flocks of various birds were released from
the wrecked Malabar) is a fine songster,
indeed. An unbiased eye, too, must admit
that a newly-moulted cock-starling,
gleaming in its green-sheened black, is a
really handsome bird. Admitted, the
starling carries lice, but in that Nature
has given it the dirtiest deal she ever
handed out. Only the spag bathes as
frequently and with such obvious enjoy-
ment as the- starling.
* sfc H« ♦
TT’S quiet in our yard since the lemon-
scented gum finished flowering. Soon
after the shortest day the creamy buds
began to open, and this Coincided with
the arrival from further south of the
yellow-faced-honeyeaters. Last year,
about 100 miles south of Sydney, I used
to watch them streaming north in April;
convinced of their wisdom, I followed,
and this* year, in milder regions, have
welcomed them. They reckoned this was
far enough ; as the tree grew whiter the
constant “Chickup” chorus told that the
yellow-faces dominated the dinner-table,
and the few greenies that boss lesser fowl
around the garden during the summer had
to slip in if they wanted a fill.
A different note, less frequent and from
the top of the tree, called for the glasses;
black-caps—the red round the eye was
unmistakable. And these had with them
a near-relative who made the fourth kind
of honeyeater at the feast —a few brown-
headed were there, too. But the last
blossoms have shrivelled and a heavy crop
of swelling gumnuts darken the tree,
these have no interest for honeyeaters
of any kind. Now, if we were a bit
further south and well up on the hub
would soon be a nice little flock
of gang-gangs rummaging—spare me
days, a boke is never satisfied.
“Wippegong.”
THERE IS A BEAUTY
“Is there anything so lovely as a golden
daffodil ?”
(/ have seen the cassia burning its incense
on the hill)
• /
“Is there anything so lovely as the distant
bells that ring ?”
( I’ve heard the skylark sing of heaven
from summer until spring)
“Is there anything so lovely as a jaca-
randa-tree ?”
(/ have seen the native hop-bush flow
down black scarps like a sea)
“Is there anything so lovely as the city
lights down there ?",
{When curlews cry the desert tyinds a
moon in her dark hair)
“Is there anything so lovely as the lake
where seagulls hover ?’’
(I have seen the waters sleeping when the
swans fly over)
“There is a beauty on this coast in every
air that blows."
(They look Australia in the face who
know the desert-rose)
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
©o'*
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
m
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth* are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia’s largest
America’s largest the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save 1/8.
"S3SIT
IS USKTgREB
(•ffMt&W of *Kt gr
;V*»***l’*****
fEiIAR
Origin-*! Recipe
174 6
!® t iVjuVAu ~ev . r 7*
\\
m
sSKf.ifc !vsm t'J & ! s ;j' 4 >K»
lL!i
Wf3*.W.i
J"* l ' metn'M
BK
RinillEM LTD.
"Wuf j,
<» *«0 tSuN"
R 35
WHITE HORSE
course!
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
TN Victoria most municipalities were
created between 1854 and 1863
(B. 31/10/’56), although in those
days they * were known as roads-
dislricts. Urgent need for roads
brought leading “landholders and house-
holders” together and resulted in a peti-
tion to the Government urging creation
of a district-roads-board, with power to
raise revenue and construct and main-
tain roads. The City of Melbourne
(1842) and Town of Geelong (1849) were
the first municipalities created in Vic-
toria, followed during the mid-’fifties by
roads-boards covering existing inner
suburbs and many country municipalities
which have since produced offspring.
Under a Local Government Act passed
in 1863, those with an area of 100 square-
miles and an annual rate-revenue of
£lOOO were permitted to become shires,
and most district-roads-boards achieved
this status in the late ’sixties or early
’seventies. In those days council-meetings
were usually held on the Saturday or
Monday nearest full moon, so that coun-
cillors riding long distances through the
bush on horseback might reach home
safely. It was not until recent years that
the practice of fixing meetings by the
moon was abandoned by motor-borne
councillors in the Dandenong Ranges.—
“Carlyle.”
* * * *
“Derwent”: For five years two
swallows have made their nest and reared
“Bend the model forward a little.”
their young in the cabin of a mechanical
shovel at Railton (Tas,), where the piece
of clattering machinery is used at the
Goliath Cement Co.’s quarry. The nest is
only a couple of feet from the operator’s
head and the noise is shattering for three-
fourths of the day, but that doesn’t seem
to worry the birds. This year it looked as
though the nest would be shaken down
by the bumping of the shovel, so work-
men secured it with wire while the
inmates continued building quite unper-
turbed. The operator gives some of his
off-duty time to feeding the birds.
4c # * *
“Dentonio”: Michael Scott, author of
Tom Cringle’s Log, w r rote a lesser-known
but equally salty novel, The Cruise of the
Midge, around a felucca (B. 10/10/ ’56).
“S.Mc.’s” description of the craft as “fast,
seaworthy, smartly streamlined” fits
Midge perfectly. Captured by a British
warship engaged in slave-trade suppres-
sion off the West African coast, the
felucca was renamed Midge, and used as
the frigate’s tender, Speedy enough to
overhaul slavers, it could ride out the
worst hurricane, and its draught was light
enough for it to operate in coastal waters
too dangerous for its big consort. I
haven’t read the yarn since boyhood, but
it was a good-’un. Scott was one of the
best early-19th-century British nautical
novelists and he gave good value in
more ways than one —both Tom Cringle’s
Log and The Cruise of the Midge are of
omnibus proportions.
* * * *
T CAN’T agree with the Perth daily
which nominated the tiger, death-
adder, taipan, dugite and copperhead as
the five most deadly snakes in Australia.
If by “deadliest” you mean “possessing
the most potent poison,” then the tiger-
snake rightly heads the list, since, measure
for measure, its venom is stronger than
that of any other snake in Australia, and
probably in the world. It’s certainly
stronger than that of the cobra. But the
toxicity of a snakebite depends perhaps
less on the potency of its venom than
on the amount injected and the method
of its injection; and these depend on the
length and type of the fang and the
manner of attack.
A snake with a tubular fang —a fang
with a hollow down the centre through
which the poison is forced —will deliver
a greater percentage of its venom into the
wound than will one with fangs which
carry the poison down a groove on the
outside, where obviously some can be
wasted. Then, again, a snake that strikes
viciously and drives its fangs home is
making better use of its venom than one
that’s liable to inflict a glanfcing blow.
(Man isn’t the natural prey of most snakes
—they hunt smaller game for food, and
their mode of attack isn’t always suitable
for attacking humans.)
Snakes haven’t long fangs as a rule —
the Westralian death-adders are the best-
equipped of all Australian land-snakes for
biting, and their fangs are only about a
quarter-inch long—so the attack has to
be true. Very few hang on like the mulga-
snake, which isn’t classed as particularly
dangerous, anyway, because of its less-
potent venom.
Then again, the snake’s habits count
for a lot. The tiger-snake has a fighting
reputation, but it’s not as aggressive as
the taipan, or as camouflage-conscious
as the death-adder, so its record of deaths
in Australia is way behind both of these,
despite its more potent venom.
But what about sea-snakes? With
keeled bodies and paddle-shaped tails
they’re equipped for life in the water, and
their poison and manner of injection are
designed to cope with slippery customers
in a medium where any poison that
doesn’t get straight into the bloodstream
is washed away. There are several species
of sea-snakes in Australian waters, and
the natives, both our own coastal tribes
aqd the New Guinea natives, are terrified
of them. I’d place them well up on any
list.
KELMS.
ELEPHANTS AT KATOOMBA
“Live elephants will possibly lead
Katoomba’s traditional New Year’s Carnival
this year.”—“jß.M. Advertiser”
When masquerade and whirligig,
When effigy and jest and pun
And many-hued caparison
Have 1 got the party going big,
Then 'twould be largely relevant
To bring on stage your elephant.
Count not the cost nor rue the terms
When fun and frolic are aplay.
This glad, mad eve when hell’s to pay
Can well afford its pachyderms.
Though in all soberness / think
’Twere best their color were not pink.
N.s.w.
HOEY.


Capo rot#
QUEENSLAND
*
★
★Jr
NEW' SOUTH WALES
★
victoria
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States !
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams;
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Gfaham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman) -
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Aron -
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson. ’
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N, Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Ckarlevllle.
UT23
EXIT OTTAWA
MR. McEWEN seems to be
pleased about what he has
achieved in his trade negotiations
with the United Kingdom ; and
that in itself is encouraging.
Certainly there appear to be
several clear advantages for Aus-
tralia in the new agreement, and,
above all, the fact that Britain
has been agreeable to studying
Australia’s particular problems
at this juncture is an achieve-
ment. v
Australia’s right to reduce exist-
ing margins of preference to
minimum levels of 10 p.c. and
7-} p.c. should widen our trading
opportunities with other
countries. On the other hand,
the U.K has undertaken to
maintain the margins of prefer-
ence on Australian goods that
enter importantly into our
exports, though in some cases
these preferences are represented
in pre-war money figures that
aren’t what they used to be.
An “understanding” that the
U.K. will assist in the sale of
750,000 tons of wheat and flour
annually on its home market is
an important development.
The Governments of the U.K.
and of Australia have agreed
that the U.K.-Australia Trade
Agreement of 1932 (Ottawa
Agreement) will be replaced by
this new agreement. It will be
drawn up in Canberra early in
1957, but will start to become
effective immediately.
The new agreement will
operate initially for five years.
The U.K. Government will
maintain duty-free entry of
Australian goods which are now
free of duty except in cases
where there is no active Aus-
tralian trade-interest.
The U.K. Government will
also maintain the existing
guaranteed margins of preference
on certain Australian goods.
As regards Australian goods
not specified, the U.K. will
consult Australia about any pro-
posals to reduce margins of
preference to goods where there
is an active Australian trade-
interest.
Australia will be free to modify
the existing preferential margin
accorded to U.K. goods, but
where there is an active U.K.
i trade-interest will guarantee
certain minimum margins of
preference.
Australia will continue tariff
policies that Will ensure that:
(a) Protection by tariffs will be
afforded only to industries which are
reasonably assured of sound oppor-
tunities for success on the basis ol the
relative cost of economical and
efficient production;
(, b ) Customs tariff will be based
on the principle that protective duties
will not exceed a level that will give
United Kingdom producers a full
opportunity of reasonable competition
provided that in the application ol
this principle special consideration
may be given to industries not fully
established and to industries essential
for defence purposes;
(c) Subject to certain international
obligations no new protective duty
will be imposed and no existing pro-
tective duty increased on United
Kingdom goods to an amount in
excess of tne recommendation of the
Tariff Board;
(cf) U.K. producers will be entitled
to full rights of audience before the
Tariff Board.
The two Governments recog-
nise that each country’s trade
may be materially injured by
competition from dumped or
subsidised exports from third
cquntries, and they intend to
introduce preventive legislation.
Each Government will give
full weight to the other’s views
in the formulation of their
agricultural policies.
Sharemarket Slackens
"ECONOMIC difficulties arising
*- J in Europe as a result of the
Suez Canal blockage, together
with doubts about the inter-
national situation as a whole,
caused a setback on London and
New York Stock Exchanges in
the middle of last week.
In spite of a £ 103-mill ion
wool cheque (up 36 p.c. on the
same period in 1955-56) and the
more attractive trade-agreement
with the U.K., Australian
sharemarkets suffered a shake,
too, though it was by no means
severe.
A factor in the Australian
weakness was the failure of the
Canberra conference on wages
and prices to reach any stabilisa-
tion agreement; but the drop in
the price of potatoes may tend
to steady the cost-of-living
anyway.
The Prime Minister sees other
inflationary factors likely to
emerge during the next few
months, some of them created
by the improvement in the export
situation itself.
In spite of sharemarket
uncertainties, shares in well-
managed and economically sound
businesses, showing a reasonable
yield, should be worth holding.
This applies particularly to
manufacturing concerns in a
time of transport difficulty.
Coffs Harbor Rutile, N.L.
U MERGING from a jungle of
leases, agreements, royalty
undertakings, licences to mine,
authorities to enter and/or
prospect, assignments and trans-
fers, the prospectus of Coffs
Harbor Rutile, N.L., has
appeared in Sydney after several
months of anticipation by
shareholders in the vendor
companies (it was incorporated
on April 6, 1956) and a lot of
interested chit-chat by the share-
market.
There are, appropriately,
three solicitors on the board.
Their services seem to have been
necessary.
The vendors’ cash considera-
tion is £27,200, and total
royalties payable appear to be
a maximum of £7 a ton of rutile
mined, with no royalty payable
to the vendors should the price
of rutile fall below £5O or insur-
mountable difficulties supervene.
One of the vendor cos.,
Eastern Titanium Corp. Pty.,
Ltd., also has a two-year option
over 108,000 shares at par.
In total, vendors’ considera-
tion is not as heavy as that in
some other recent rutile floats.
The co. has options over
applications for a large number
of areas, “including and stretch-
ing from the mouth of the
Clarence River to the south of
Coffs Harbor itself.” But
immediate hopes centre on areas
at Coffs Harbor aerodrome and
the adjoining Brandscheids, and
at Macauley’s Head.
The three areas are said to be
close enough together for con-
centrates to be economically
separated at a central separation-
plant. Ore reserves are estimated
by geologist J. F. Ivanac to
contain 12,400 recoverable tons
rutile and 15,579 tons zircon
(90 p.c. recovery).
At a production-rate of 100
tons of rutile a week, “which
would be about the capacity of
the smallest practicable separa-
tion-unit for economic opera-
tions,” mining-engineer F. G.
Forman says reserves in the
tested areas would provide a life
of 2} years with the other
(untested) areas “potentially
valuable additional reserves.”
P. K. Oliver, manager of
Bellingen Titanium Pty., esti-
mates that on an annual produc-
tion of 5000 tons of rutile and
5000 tons of zircon, value, at
present “forward” prices, would
“Were all in the same boat, Stanley. Look —I haven't
got a bean, either."
be £550,000, With operating and
administration costs at £200,000
(not allowing for depreciation or
taxation).
The prospectus does not say
whether these estimated expenses
include the £7-a-ton royalty
payable on rutile, but on present
rutile prices the royalty would
not be a heavy burden at, say,
£35,000 a year additional.
Main thing is to get the
mineral out as per prospectus
and sell it as per prospectus, and
to develop additional ore reserves
as soon as possible so as to
extend the life of the show
beyond 2? years.
Shares (of ss. each) totalling
122,500 have already been sub-
scribed for, presumably in cash.
Now 1,148,000 ss. shares are
offered (payable 6d. on applica-
tion, plus prepayment of 2s. 6d.
first call, balance as required),
and of these 327,000 have been
reserved for application by
Pacific Mining, Ltd. (one of the
vendors), and 375,000 by Gold
and Mineral Exploration, N.L.
(another vendor). If all the
shares are paid-up to 3s. each,
paid capital will be £190,000.
Such an arrangement would
leave the co. with a working-
capital of £44,234 after estimated
capital expenditure, preliminary
exes., etc.
On the board are W. B.
Molloy, N. G. Green, J. P.
McCosh, S. A. Miles and T. R.
Taylor. The issue has been
underwritten by C. H. Smith
and Co., Sydney, and Gurner
and McArthur, Adelaide.
Bellambi Coal
BELLAMBI COAL CO., in'
making ,a bonus-issue of
400,000 3s. 6d. shares (one for
each 6s. 6d. share now held),
intends to consolidate all scrip
into 10s. stock-units and to
restore paid capital to the 1932
figure of £200,000.
In 1932 3s. 6d. a share was
returned to shareholders in cash
(reducing the scrip from 10s.
paid-up to 6s. 6d.), and this
followed a return of 10s. a share
in 1929.
The present bonus-iskie will
be financed out of a revaluation
of properties.
Profit of £19,021 for the year
to June 30 last represented 14.6
p.c. on present capital, or 9.5,
p.c. after the bonus.
Under the price-fixing policy
of the Joint Coal Board, coal
prices are now fixed at a level
designed to provide a profit,
before income-tax, of 6s. a ton,
or 25 p.c. on capital employed
(including general but not
specific reserves), whichever is
the greater. In addition, divi-
dends are limited to 10 p.c. on
paid-up capital, unless the
approval of the Joint Coal
Board is obtained. These regu-
lations apply to all underground
mines.
Bellambi’s dividend for the
past three years has been as
near to 10 p.c. as Bd. a share
can be to 6s. 6d.
The co. has always been well
run, but has the disadvantage of
all N.S.W. southern collieries that
its coal is not for gasmaking,
being essentially a bunker coal,
which, however, makes excellent
coke for smelting purposes.
“More Haste . .
[From L. Owen]
/''WER a year ago (B. 28/9/’55)
I mentioned what appeared
to me to be undue haste in the
completion of a survey of the
Canning Desert Basin by air*
borne magnetometer. Objection
to this haste was not (as a critic
expressed it) due to the opinion
that the speedier the completion
of such a -survey, the less reliable
the results (B. 26/10/’55), but
to the fact that the magneto-
metric data were to be computed
from the results of what could
be described only as a brief
reconnaissance and were then to
be translated into geological
structure without the benefit of
a detailed knowledge of the
geological history ,and the
structural and stratigraphical
idiosyncrasies of the area.
I emphasised that such detailed
knowledge, particularly in the
absence of close pitting and
close structure-boring, is obtain-
able only by intensive work on
foot. Where a “marker”-bed
outcrops, it should be followed
step by step (and not jeep-leap
by jeep-leap) and all its minor
convolutions noted.
It is thus astonishing to learn
that a Government field-party,
just returned from the Canning
Desert Basin, has attempted to
cover an area of some 200,000
square-miles in six months. Six
months suggests something less
than 160 working field-days and
the expedition is stated to have
covered 10,000 road-miles during
that period, which works out at
an average of over 60 road-miles
a day!
I have no thought of question-
ing the energy and enthusiasm
of any member of the explora-
tory party, but it. is difficult to
work out what time was left for
geological studies, particularly
as “hundredweights of samples
were collected and, presumably,
located and described, at least
in field terms. *
Even an average rate for the
efficient study of one-third of a
mile of outcrop an hour consti-
tutes very hard work, and that
where the outcrop offers ten
problems and has a strati'
graphical thickness of under 6tt.


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office : 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1956
LIABILITIES
£
AUTHORISED CAPITAL-
-20 ,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each £20,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-5,589,037 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid 5,589,037
7,200,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/4d. paid 7,200,000
£12,789,037
Raid-Up Capital ... ... ... 10,089,037
Reserve Fund, including Share Fre-
mlum Account £1,008,904,
(used in the business) 7,500,000
Final Dividend Proposed 454,007
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 547,373
Total Shareholders’ Funds ... 18,590,417
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities (including Provisions for
Contingencies)' ... ... ... 252,044,504
Notes In Circulation ... 47,478
Balances due to Other Banks ... f 211,172
Balances due to Subsidiary Bank-
ing Companies now in course of
liquidation 241,578
271,137,151
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange '
Contracts, etc. 15,392,488
£284,529,439
ASSETS
£
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers 11,224,576
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 8,666,468
Balances with and due from Other
Banks v 875,332
Treasury Bills
(i) Australian Government ... 10,SCO,COO
(ii) Other Government 617,258
Public Securities (at or under market
value )
(i) Australian Govt. Securities 21,619,241
(ii) Other Govt. Securities ... 1,361,500
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities ... 355,405
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia ... 39,437,C00
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 19,920,689
114,577,269
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful) 147,595,668
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off) ... 5,871,85!
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost). (The Company
has made neither profit nor loss) ... 2,000
All Other Assets 3,090,363
271,137,151
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc.— as per contra ... ... 15,392,488
£286,529,639
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1956
To Expenses—Head Office, 835
£9,352,077
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income, after deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current
at balance date and appropria-
tions to the credit of Contin-
gencies Accounts (out of which
accounts provisions for all bad and
doubtful debts have been made) ... 9,352,077
<9,352,077
By Net Balance—brought forward
from 30th September, 1955 ... 504,128
„ Net Profit for the year ... 951,259
£1,455,387
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Lost Figures are stated in Australian Currency, adjusted to the nearest Pound )
To the Shareholder* of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUST.R
Melbourne, 2<th October, 1956. SHERfIARD WARNOCK, F.C.A.. (AUST.)/Auditors.
Fatih iu the
Future
When I see a new factory rising on the
Australian skyline I think of the effort that has
gone into its making.
Each, in its way, is an expression of someone’s
Faith, in the country, and in us as a people.
I have particularly in mind, at the moment,
a large and handsome plant that is about to be
opened at Essendon, Victoria. For I know
something of what has gone to make this building
possible: The vision of men who conceived it in
their minds, the planning that brought it to a
material design, the workmanship that has made
it a reality.
With the work of establishment complete, the
service for which this plant was built is only
beginning. That is the satisfaction, the strength, of
the builders in Life—the knowledge that what they
do is powering others on to further achievement.
Australia’s industrial expansion in recent years
has been really remarkable. It was given an
impetus by the demands of supply in the last war.
Since 1939 the number of factories has grown
from fewer than 27,000 to more than 50,000. They
are providing employment for more than a million
workers; slightly more than one-third of the
national work-force.
That is the story outlined in figures. But the
real test for our industries—supplementing and
balancing as they must be in relation to our great
primary production —is this:
How high are the levels of efficiency? How
excellent is the performance, from management
down to the output per man-hour from the
benches?
Is the product, its quality and cost, such as
to make us proud, and the world confident, on
reading the label “Made in Australia”?
We have the means to make it so—in the
spread of. enterprise, the modern techniques,
executive brains, skills in the hands of Australian
workers.
////zsTi^s
7
Lenden airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE European Free Trade
-*■ Area plainly bears little
similarity, either in origin or in
practice, to Cobden’s broad con-
ception. Cobden saw in Free
Trade a means of liberalising
the world and hoped that the
commercial interdependence of
the various countries would
serve to prevent war. The British
Government', it would seem, is
broaching the newer project less
as a grand concept than as a
means of self-protection—an apt
if odd-sounding word to use in
this context.
Mr. Peter Thorneycroft,
president of the Board of Trade,
is a direct and forceful speaker
as well as an able and experi-
enced Cabinet Minister. Yet, for
all his cogent and authoritative
explanations, he hardly suc-
ceeded in implying to a party of
us who entertained him at lunch
that European Free Trade will
benefit the Commonwealth. It
was hoped, he said, that the
Commonwealth would look at
the project from the long-term
view the strengthening of
sterling.
The Government, it may be
assumed, is rather on the spot,
so far as policy-making , is con-
cerned. Half of the nation’s
trade is with the Commonwealth
nations, which have “free entry”
at this end while the United
Kingdom enjoys a preferential
advantage at their end. But the
United Kingdom also depends
upon Europe to the extent of a
quarter of its trade. Here is the
dilemma: how to get the best of
both worlds.
So the matter resolves itself
into the realm of diplomacy
rather than into trade-agree-
ments, tariffs, etc.’ Moreover, the
concept is still in the abstract
stage. Because of its responsi-
bilities to the Commonwealth,
the United Kingdom cannot join
a Customs union in which each
member would treat the others
on equal terms. A free-trade
area is a different kind of
arrangement altogether. The
idea, is that all internal tariffs
would bo removed but
ultimately, not immediately. A
15-year period is the objective.
Each member would be free to
decide its external tariff's.
Excluded altogether from free-
trade agreements would be
agricultural and horticultural
products.
Mr. Thorneycroft admits that
the dangers are great. Competi-
tion would be fiercer. But that,
he said, must be faced anyhow.
What is hoped for is clearly
something in the nature of a
loose federation, with a “spread-
ing of the load” so that the
nations are not all competing
against each other with the same
products. And in these reckon-
ings it is all too plain that
Western Germany looms pro-
minently.
If the main Continental
nations form themselves into a
trqde bloc, the problem facing
Britain is not whether it dare
get involved in closer commit-
ment with Europe but, simply,
whether it dare be excluded. For
to do so would be to deny itself
expanding markets and would
also mean the domination of
Europe by Western Germany.
The plan, as yet, is essentially
theoretical.
Bank-rate to Fall?
Strong opinions are being
exchanged about the efficacy of
dear money. It is argued that
the credit-squeeze and the high
bank-rate (raised to 5| p.c. last
February) have done their work
and that, as with a top-strong
dose of prophylactic, the peak
of the cure has passed.
The severity of this highest-
ever bank-rate is now adversely
affecting industrial investment
and has slowed-down the growth
of production more than it has
restrained consumption. Week
by week, company , reports
disclose falling profits, and
industrialists are sore that they
should have to bear the chief
burden. They £eel that the bank-
rate is being kept high as a
“moral force” against wage-
claims when other considerations
merit a gradual reduction.
In the home as well as in the
board-room there is discontent,
for 6 p.c. seems an incredibly
high rate for a mortgage on
house - property that was
formerly obtained at 3} p.c. It
is. even more fantastic that
Government housing-loans have
now been raised to 5| p.c., for
there is a great deal of council
building, especially in the new
towns, and the effect on the
tenants is steeply inflationary.
Perhaps the effective simplicity
of bank-rate as a fiscal weapon is
lost for ever.
Clubbing Through
That arbiter of theatrical
morals, the Lord Chamberlain,
is neither a Mrs. Grundy nor a
bigoted Puritan. He will sanc-
tion, in the name of culture, the
closet scene from “Hamlet” and
the cabinet scene from “The
Country Wife*.” He allowed,
also in the name of culture, “A
Streetcar Named Desire” (pre-
sumably because its seaminess
was manifestly heterosexual). He
winks at the libidinous uproari-
ousness of Anouilh’s “The Waltz
of the Toreadors,” at the
repetitive bad language of “Look
Back in Anger” and innumerable
“blue” gags and sketches for
revues and music halls. He is,
in a word, broadminded. And,
because his authorisation is an
effective safeguard against
wowsers, managements support
his office and, indeed, are thank-
ful for it.
Sex, it would appear, is fair
game for any dramatist as long
as he keeps to the relationship,
however irregular, between man
and woman. But let the prefix
“homo” intrude * even in the
remotest allusion, and , the
censor’s ban is emphatic and
immediate. A similar edict does
not apply to books or to broad-
casting—the Third Programme
is notorious for unexpurgated
works. Yet a fine play like
Julian Gfeen’s “South” is denied
public performance because of a
suspected emotional link between
two male characters.
The New Watergate Theatre
Club, which enjoys the backing
of important theatre-managers
in New York as well as in
London, has been formed to
enable playgoers to defy the
Lord Chamberlain’s concern for
their moral welfare. Pay five-
shillings, wait 48 hours, and the
box-office is yours. Add to this
the anticipation and mild exclu-
siveness of forbidden fruit, the
blessing of Mrs. Marilyn Miller
(otherwise Monroe) and the
venture is off to a romping start.
It is all slightly crazy. The
opening play, Arthur Miller’s
“A View from the Bridge,” is
a rather overcharged tragedy of
a working-class Othelld who is
consumed with possessive
jealousy for his wife’s young
niece. She falls in love with
an illegal migrant whom the
uncle, in a frantic effort to
disparage as being “not right,”
publicly kisses. This is a stupid
incident, dramatically unsuc-
cessful as well as revolting, and
the play would lose nothing by
its omission.
What, in fact, the audience
sees is a tense, highly-wrought,
extremely sensitive production
(by Peter Brook) in the tradition
of the American Group Theatre,
with appropriate fervor, team-
work and naturalistic acting. In
fact, the casting and playing are
so realistic as to upset the
balance of the play, making the
seedy lawyer whom Miller uses
as a chorus seem out of place.
Despite its skilful extension from
one act to two,' the play is too
long, and a little too frenzied,
for its theme. But it is exciting,
compelling and has a literary
quality that eludes most West
End productions.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
'V*
r
rvR
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
/. R. Faviell
C. H. Locke
Manager: iV. L. Shatv
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officert
P. fi. Andrews M. A. Foulchetr
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
* PT.J18.19
The WILDCAIT
COUMN
Humes, Ltd.
'THE earnings of Humes come largely
A from Government and semi-Govern-
ment contracts, and a reduction in
public-authority expenditure on new
capital-works contributed to a 35.2 p.c.
fall in net profit for the year to June 30.
Humes, Ltd., originally Hume Pipe
Co. (Australia), Ltd., was incorporated ip
1920, and, with 39 Australian factories,
is today the largest producer of concrete,
welded-steel and concrete-lined pipes in
the Southern Hemisphere.
The co. has asbestos-mining interests in
South Africa and New Zealand, and, with
its subsidiaries, fabricates structural-steel-
work as well as turning-out pre-stressed
concrete beams and other concrete pro-
ducts. Two subsidiaries, Hume Industries
(Far East), Ltd. (Singapore and, Malaya),
and Hume Industries (N.Z.), Ltd., supply
N.Z. and South-east Asian markets.
A one-for-two bonus issue in 1950 was
followed by the par. issue (one-for-three)
of 456,830 £1 ords. in 1951, when paid
capital reached its present total,
£2,037,500. There are 362,500 £1 p.c.
‘‘A” or “B” prefs. The group expansion
in recent years absorbed most of the
surplus earnings, and, to strengthen
working-capital, £1,000,000 was raised
early in 1956 by the issue of six-year and
10-year 6| p.c. notes.
During the last term operations in
Singapore were affected by political dis-
turbances, and earnings from the area fell
slightly; however, better results were
obtained in N.Z., and the Australian sub-
sidiary, Standard Steel Pty. (structural-
steel fabricator), increased its contribution
to the group-profit. The reduced Com-
monwealth demand for pipes was mainly
responsible for an overall drop in turn-
over, while manufacturing costs and
expenses took a larger proportion of
income.
Note-issue expenses of £28,276, depre-
ciation £326,422 (up £41,268) and pro-
vision for taxation £423,353 (down
£52,300) were covered before arriving at
a net profit of £455,884, a drop of
£249,349:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends-——,,
Pref. , Ord.—. —, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. p.c. p.c. serves, serves.f
£ £ - £ £ £
1952. .627,106 27,188 10 167,500 332,418 1,379,509
Written off, £14,277 1,365,232
Unexplained decrease, £177,466 ..1,187,766
Reduction intangibles, £291,499 ~1,479,265
From tax reserve, £6388 . . . . 1,485,653
1953. .711,175 27,188 17| 293,125 390,862 1,876,515
Written off, £18,600 1,857,915
Added intangibles, £3403 .. ..1,854,512
Unexplained reduction, £26,064 ..1,828,448
1954. .625,285 27,188 17J 293,125 304,922 2,133,370
Written off, £18,600 2,114,770
Reduction intangibles, £3165 ..2,117,935
Profit sale assets, etc., £87,425 .. 2,205,360
1955. .705,233 27,188 171 293,125 384,920 2,590,280
Added intangibles, £355 .. .. 2,689,925
Surplus, sale assets and war
claims, £36,959 2,626,884
Unexplained reduction, £78,122 .. 2,548,762
Written-off, £18,600 .. .. 2,530,162
1956. .455,884 27,188 17$ 293,125 135,571 2,665,733
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £17,773.
* After deducting outside interests.
Although reduced, the earnings were
sufficient to cover the pref. div. and a
satisfactory 25.5 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 40.4, 35.7, 40.8, 29.8 and
25.5 p.c. in the five preceding years. The
£455,884 excludes £36,959 from the sale
of assets and war-damage claims, £18,600
written-off asbestos interests, an unex-
plained reduction of £78,122 in reserves
and the earnings attributable to outside-'
interests. Ord. div. was unchanged at
17y p.c. for the fourth consecutive year.
One-seventh of the parent’s holding in
Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd., was
made available to Singapore and Malayan
interests during the term in order to give
local residents a share in the co. Prompted
by. the changing status of South-east
Asian countries, the resultant increase in
outside shareholders leaves shareholders’
funds at only 49 p.c. of the consolidated
balance-sheet totals:
_ , 1954. 1955. 1956.,
Paid capital . . £2,087,500 £2,037,500 £2,037,5/0
Reserves .. .. 2,133,370 2,590,280 2,665,738
Outside interest . . 542,159 542,159 744,290
Notes . . . . _ 1,000,000
Overdraft 51,007 951,920 842,589
Creditors ] ' f 1,320,899 1,631,366
Tax provision f- 1,644,299-j 528,065 425,062
Suspense account J 50,614 69,719
Final div. . . 189,469 168,532 168,532
£6,597,804 £8,189,909 £9,584,791
Freehold . . . . 364,731 368,986 435,939
Buildings .. .. 1,147,108 1,311,883 1,464,896
Plant .. .. 1,202,310 1,494.535 1,855,078
Asbestos deposits.. 153,681 148,082 129,182
Shares other cos... 62,901 105,612 105,61°
Stocks .. ■ . . 2,057,683 2,890,986 3,627,928
Debtors . . . . 1,409,424 1,674,225 1,855,080
Cash, etc 149,658 178,744 111,076
War claims .. 50,308 16,966
£6,597,804 £8,189,969 £9,584,791
Proceeds from the note-issue went into
stocks (up £736,992) and debtors (up
£180,855), working-capital increasing by
£732,941 to £2,456,816. An extra
£310,467 was owing to creditors, but
£109,331 had been clipped-off the over-
draft.
Expenditure on plant accounted for
more than half of the £580,509 added to
fixed assets, shown in the balance-sheet at
cost, less depreciation. Looking to the
future, the co. bought a 43-acre site at
Epping, an outer suburb of Melbourne,
but development of the area is not
expected for some time.
Although the volume of orders in the
current term suggests a “satisfactory”
year, the problem of rising costs, especially
when competing against overseas firms,
led the directors to remind shareholders
of the possible effect on divs.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 51s. 10d., and at 475. 9d.
return 7.3 p.c. from a \l\ p.c. distribution.
Both “A” and “B” prefs. recently changed
hands at around 225., to return 6.6 p.c.
Samuel Allen & Sons,'Ltd.
/CONSIDERING the handicaps to trade
of the prolonged wet weather and
the shearers’ strike, which lasted the best
part of ten months, plus other industrial
troubles on Queensland’s wharves and
railways, Townsville-based Samuel Allen
and Sons turned in a highly satisfactory
result for 1956.
Contributing to the good performance
was the decision, put into effect during
the year, to close-down the unprofitable
wholesale-grocery, -butter and -produce
sections at Townsville and to operate
them at Cairns on a modified basis. The
result was a lift in the gross earnings of
the parent co., despite the lower sales.
For the rest of the business, with the
exception of the hotels, which were hit by
a union overtime-ban at the co.’s brewers,
turnovers were higher, and the combined
net profit of parent and subsidiaries, after
unstated provisions for depreciation and
taxation, was £10,095 stronger at
£114,490:
Parent Co.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. / Ord. ■, serves, serves.*
8 p.c.
£> £» £> £ £,
1951.. 75,368 11,428 8 p.c. = 39,882 24,058 410,811
Share premiums, £4784 .. ..416,595
1952.. 90,762 11,428 8 p.c. = 54,578 24.766 440,361
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add on consolidation, £29,014 . . 472,436
Goodwill written-off, £3070 .. ..469,365
Loss realisation subsidiary, £lO9B ..468,267
1953.. 78,179 11,428 8 p.c. = 66,372 6,379 473,646
Unexplained addition. £98600 .. .. 483,506
1954. .100,904 11,428 8 p.c. = 56,372 88,104 516,610
Profit sale assets, £11,461 .. .. 528,071
Unexplained addition, £lO6 .. .. 528,177
1955.. 104.395.11,428 8 p.c. = 68,844 34,123 562,300
Profit sale assets, £6623 .. ..567,923
Unexplained reduction, £2217 .. .. 565,706
1956. .114,490 11,428 8 p.c. = 61,847 41,215 60G,921
'* Subject to intangibles, £5844 at 30/6/’66.
The figure was 12.5 p.c. on average capital
(pref. and ord. together), as against 11.9
p.c., 11.9 p.c. and 8.6 p.c. back to 1953,
when the table first shows results in con-
solidated form. The prefs., put on to a
participating basis back in 1935 (they
rank equally for divs. after the ordin-
aries get 6 p.c.) shared in the 8 p.c. distri-
bution, which took 64 p.c. of the profit.
That left £41,215 for reserves, to which
was also added £5623 profit from the sale
of a number of small retail shops, disposed
of along with the wholesale-grocery sec-
tion at Townsville, and a small hotel-
freehold inland, the trade of which, it is
said, has been retained to tfie co.'
Elsewhere, the parent’s hotel interests
have been strengthened by the purchase
of a freehold property at Mossman, com-
mencement of new hotels at Ayr and
Proserpine and improvements to existing
pubs at Cairns and the big mining centre
of Mount Isa in the west of the State,
where another offshoot, Magnetic Motors
Pty., Ltd., established itself towards the
end of the year. The co. has the Ford
dealership there and in Townsville.
A. E. Clayton and Son, the Ayr subsi-
diary handling farm-machinery, irriga-
tion-equipment and hardware, was got
back on to a profit-earning basis, and,
in Townsville, the co. completed the job
of remodelling the store of the hardware,
electrical- and sporting-goods retailer
Hollimans Pty., Ltd.
Due mainly to the expenditure on free-
hold properties and plant there was a
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£757,958) of £81,150:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital — 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £142,856 £142,866 £142,856
Ord 704,644 806,207 810,582
Reserves .. .. 516,610 562,800 606,921
Outside interests .. 1,205 1,284
Mortgage .. .. 288,452 278,205 262,799
Overdraft .. .. 416,740 422,284 628,955
Creditors, etc. .. 499,107 503,264 502,487
Tax provision .. 76,822 81,080 102,027
Final divs. . . 33,900 36,019 38,138
£2,680,336 £2,833,499 £2,994,765
Land, buildings .. 837,057 910,603 1,004,257
Plant, etc. .. 89,117 98,608 119,595
Govt, bonds, etc. .. 15,640 17,623 10,654
Stocks . . .. 913,723 841,658 929,645
Debtors, etc. .. 818,312 952,415 917,203
Cash .. .. 1,143 1,188 1,507
Goodwill .. . , 5,344 6,344 5,844
£2,080,336 £2,833,499 £2,994,705
Outside the business the main source of
funds was the bank (up £106,671 to
£528,955).
At 235. 3d. the f.-p. £1 shares return
6.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Paid to
10s., the contribs. are at 11s. 6d. The
prefs. at 20s. 6d. return 5.8 p.c. Including
uncalled capital, net tangible asset cover
for prefs. and ords. is 31s. 4d. a share.
Duly and Hansford, Ltd.
A XLE-SHAFTS, engine-valves, king-
pins and numerous other automotive
parts are turned-out at the Sydney work-
shops of Duly and Hansford, Ltd.
Formed in 1935 to take over a 14-year-
old partnership business, the co. has con-
tributed its share to the post-war develop-
ment and expansion of the Australian
motor-vehicle industry, paid capital
jumping from £200,000 in 1948 to
£1,046,875 seven years later. A bonus-
issue in 1950 (a little less than three-for-
four) accounted for £126,667 of the
increase ; par issues, the last (one-for-four)
in March, 1955, providing most of the
balance.
Although turnover has steadily im-
proved over the last few years, rising
labor- and material-costs and, more
recently, higher co.-tax, have trimmed
back the co.’s earning-power, the improve-
ment in net profit failing to keep pace
with the growth of paid capital and turn-
over.
Sales for the year ended June 30 last
were 18.1 p.c. higher than those of the
preceding term, but net profit didn’t
receive the full benefit of the bigger turn-
over, competition forcing the co. to
absorb higher costs while taxation claimed
a larger share of the earnings. After
charging £44,908 to depreciation (up
£7938) and providing £96,483 (up £24,483)
for taxation, net profit was £8642 greater
at £127,554:
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. <— Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c.
1952.. 114.445 5000 10 p.c. = 59,000 50,445 279,759
Capital reduction reserve, £19,589.. 299,348
1953.. 103.125 10 p.c. = 67,000 36,125 335,473
1954.. 841 10 „ „ 71,181 32,660 368,133
1955.. 912 10 „ ~ 90,729 28,183 396,316
1956.. 127.554 10- „ ~104,686 22,868 419,184
* Subject to goodwill, £75,000 at 30/6/’56.
The unchanged 10 p.c. div. took £104,68
of the eamipgs, leaving £22,868 fo
reserves. The return on paid capital wa
a little under 12.2 p.c., compared witi
13.1, 13.6 and 15.4 p.c. in the thre
preceding years, and 18.5 and 18.1 p.
(after pref. divs.) in ’52 and ’5l.
To finance additions to plant (u
£94,652) and buildings (up £26,391) th
co. borrowed an extra £150,277 from th
bank, more than doubling its overdraf
Land and buildings are shown in th
accounts at 1948 valuation, plus cost, an
plant at 1950 valuation and cost, les
depreciation:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £837,221 £1,046,844 £1,046,87
Reserves .. . . 868,133 396,316 419,18
Application money 100 31
Overdraft . . . ‘ 177,202 138,789 289,06
Creditors .. .. 70,818 68,129 68,39
Tax provision .. 67,827 72,261 96,65
Final divs. .. , 71,181 90,729 104,68
£1,592,482 £1,813J)99 £2,024,85
Land, buildings .. 160,557 188,003 209.39
Plant, etc 369,735 381,139 475,79
Stock . . . . 882,542 1,000,123 1,012,92
Debtors .. . . 92,507 161,520 237,87
Cash, etc. .. 12,141 12,314 13,87
Intangibles . . 75,000 75,000 75,00
£1,592,482 £1,813,099 £2,024,85
Stocks were slightly higher at £1,012,926
the greater turnover being partly respon-
sible for a £76,353 increase in debtors. A
branch-office was opened in Melbourne
during the term, and application has been
made to the Melbourne ’Change for list-
ing of the scrip.
The improvement in turnover has con-
tinued in the current term, and the co.
is employing some recently installed plant
in the manufacture of products for use
outside the automotive industry.
The f.-p. £1 shares have a net tangible
backing of 265. 7d., and at 285., cum
div., return 7.1 p.c. from a' 10 p.c.
distribution. •
I
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.
A DELAIDE CEMENT continues to
make profits at a remarkable
rate, and, patient investors, waiting for the
day when more will be sent shareholders'
way, are prepared to pay 335. for the
£1 ords. On an 8 p.c. div. basis the yield
at that figure is 4.8 p.c. Looked at as a
10 p.c. proposition, the scrip would return
a shade over 6 p.c., or 7.6 p.c. should the
distribution go to 12| p.c. If the results
of the last three years are maintained
either rate can be counted on as a likely
possibility when the outside debt is
brought to within more manageable
proportions.
About 13 years ago it was decided to
replace the whole of Adelaide Cement’s
plant at Birkenhead, where the first lime-
stone was originally ground by the co. in
1914. The major work of reconstruction,
involving renewal of the limestone- and
coal-mills, kilns, handling- and bagging-
equipment and the construction of a
laboratory and amenities block, was com-
pleted in 1953. The benefits were at once
apparent to earnings, which shot-up
from 11.9 p.c. on ordinary capital to 28.1
p.c. in the 1954 term and 30.3 p.c. and
31.4 p.c. in the next two:
To Re- Re-
May Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
31, 8 p.e. 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 21,060 1200 18,000 1.860 73,895
1952.. 24,511 1200 18,000 5,311 79,206
1953.. 36,914 1200 18,000 17,714 96,920
8 p.c.
1954.. 85,765 1200 24,000 60,565 157,485
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 187,485
1955.. 92,227 1200 24,000 67,027 254,512
1956.. 95,526 1200 24,000 70,326 324.83 S
Last year’s net profit of £95,526 (up
£3299) was written after providing an


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FINAL DIVIDEND No. 83
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
the Directors have decided to recom-
mend at the Annual General Meet-
ing of the Company to be held on
20th December, 1956, payment of a
PINAL DIVIDEND of ONE
SHILLING AND THREEPENCE
per share sterling in respect of the
year ended 30th June, 1956, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIX-
PENCE in the £ (SIX DECIMAL
POINT THREE SEVEN FIVE
PENCE per share), the net amount
of Dividend being EIGHT DECIMAL
POINT SIX TWO FIVE PENCE
per shard sterling.
Subject to confirmation at the
Annual General Meeting the Divi-
dend will be paid on 21st
DECEMBER, 1956, to all share-
holders registered on the books of
the Company at the close of business
on 12th NOVEMBER, 1956.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from 13th to 15th NOVEMBER, 1956,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Divi-
dend will be calculated at the rate
of Exchange ruling on 12th
NOVEMBER, 1956.
For ■ LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED,
R. J. AGNEW, Attorneys
FIMISTON, 2nd November, 1956. *
Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
RB
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SS9
ito.
8w«^ !vV "’
sps
iil
f'j
™7~ i -i~«W&* l!
B$5SK^
■■■ : > ?■
»>! 5
ill
:; : •
I
»u
~,i.
JKisS
assaSsssfeJ»K
V ' ■? ■- .'■ !
Ml
wmmm
i '
HH
h
iil
1
am
m
\;i-
-m
l?r**»i*
<<?«««« «
SILOS
i Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
I Easily erected—permanent
I Rodent and weatherproof
} Steel earth rings and load-
ing platforms available as
extras if required
I Prompt delivery
AUGERS
Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
Vertical sets complete with
wall brackets, chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS. Suitable types
of Augers to meet all
needs are available at
attractive prices.
Write for further information and agents' names to Dept. No.
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES ssz/56
' • -" - ' «... •
unchanged £125,000 for depre-
ciation and £75,000 (up £10,000)
for taxation. After feeding 8 p.c.
to prefs. and ords. the balance
on the p.-and-l. account was
£70,326, £25,000 of which was
set aside for debenture-redemp-
tion (now £85,000).
The chief means of financing
the reconstruction programme,
the debentures were issued to the
State Bank of South Aus-
tralia. At the close of the
term the amount outstanding
was £633,074, reduced from
£909,488 in 1953. The rate of
repayment is at present about
£30,000 a year.
No fresh share-capital has been
employed by the co. since 1946,
and it is unlikely that any new
calls will be made on share-
holders in the near future.
According to the chairman, the
existing capacity of the two
South Australian producers is
now adequate to meet the needs
of the State, and the possibility
of overproduction and the
attendant difficulty of disposing
of the surplus output have to be
considered. Last year nearly all
the cement produced was sold.
Creditors, etc. (up £66,461 to
£192,246), include £13,340
deposits from employees partici-
pating in the profit-sharing
plan:
Paid. capital— 1955. 1956.
Pl-ef £15,000 £15,000
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. .. 254,512 324,838
Mortgages.. .. 16,824 16,195
Debentures . . 663,911 633,074
Creditors, etc. .. 125,785 192.246
Tax provision .. 76,414 94,253
Final divs. .. 12,600 12,000
£1,465,046 £1,588,206
Property, plant, etc. 1,112,947 1,054,938
Shares .. .. 750 750
Stocks . . .. 166,430 184,424
Debtors . . .. 102,800 115,208
Cash, bonds .. 82,119 232,886
£1,465,046 £1,588,206
Actual outlay on fixed assets
during the year of £66,990
included purchase of additional
shale deposits and progress-
payments on a new slurry-basin
and 12 extra silog. Future
capital-expenditure, including an
electrostatic precipitator to
minimise the dust problem, will
be met from the holding of
investments and cash (up
£150,767 to £232,886).
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
A NOTHER successful year for
■ North Broken Hill. Higher
prices for the silver, lead and
zinc won at the Barrier lifted
mine income, investments were
more profitable, and exploratory
drilling, at the lowest levels of
the mine, proved the existence
of a larger deposit of high-
grade ore than was previously
anticipated. Holders of the
2,800,000 ss. stock-units had a
good year, too, a 210 p.c. div.
following the 180 p.c., 110 p.c.
and 90 p.c. distributions from
earnings in the three preceding
terms.
The 380,065 tons of ore (down
3189 tons) extracted came mainly
from the North section, the
grade of ore being slightly below
that of the previous year. The
mill operated efficiently, the
377,775 tons (down 4442 tons)
treated averaging 13 p.c. lead,
7oz. silver and 10.9 p.c. zinc and
yielding the following concen-
trates: —
f Assay —*
Concentrates — Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead— Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1954 . . 69,494 71.9 38.1 4.9
1956 ■ • 70.465 71.3 36.8 5.2
1956 .. 66,736 71.2 36.2 5.1
Zinc —
1954 .. 70,509 0.7 1.6 50.8
1955 .. 72,920 0.7 1.4 51.0
1956 .. 69,987 0.9 1.5 51.0
Recoveries from the concentrates
were 96.9 p.c. lead, 91.9 p.c
silver and 86.8 p.c. zinc.
The average price received for
lead sold overseas was
£l3l 19s. 5d., compared with
£122 7s. sd. in the previous term,
77 p.c. of the metal produced
being exported. Zinc and silver
prices also improved, the latter
averaging Bs. Id. an ounce, an
increase of just over s|d. In-
vestments returned £580,821,
contributing £80,354 of the
£548,548 increase in total
income: -
Revenue— 1956. 1956.
Mine products . . £6,777,931 £7,246,125
Investments .. 600,467 580,821
£7,278,398 £7,826,946
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 4,015,873 4,330,483
P. and 1. items 1,261,430 1,471,166
£5,267,303 £5,801,649
Net profit., .. £2,011,095 £2,025,297
The larger mine-expenditure was
mainly due to higher lead-
bonuses and the increased cost
of power and general supplies,
while taxation (up £175,000 to
£929,000) and royalties (up
£33,500 to £353,500) took a
bigger share of the * remainder.
After covering these items and
an unchanged £lOO,OOO for
depreciation, net profit was
£14,202 stronger at £2,025,297.
Earnings equalled a little under
14s. 6d. a share, or 289.3 p.c.
on capital, compared with 287.2,
252.5, 228.5 and 366.6 p.c. for
the four preceding years.
Ore reserves at June 30 were
estimated at 4,883,000 tons (up
186,000 tons), equal to almost
13 years’ work for the mill at
last term’s rate of throughput.
The surplus of current assets
and investments over liabilities
increased by £243,674:
1955. 1956.
Shaves other cos. £3,876,305 £3,468,140
Stores . . .. 466,765 438,622
Concentrates on
hand . . .. 1,069,625 1,426,092
Debtors .. .. 296,332 379,592
Cash, etc 1,390,070 1,528,404
Liquid assets .. £6,588,097 £7,285,850
Less liabilities* .. 2,677,912 3,081,991
Liquid surplus .. £3,910,185 £4,153,869
* Includes provision tor taxation, final
divs., etc.
The extensive investment-port-
folio includes substantial
holdings in the Broken Hill
Associated Smelters Pty. (one of
the two largest lead-smelters in
the world), Commonwealth Air-
craft Corp., Associated Pulp and
Paper, Consolidated Zinc,
Electrolytic Zinc, 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
and over 1,000,000 £1 ords.
and participating prefs. in
Metal Manufacturers, Ltd.
(perhaps bettter known through
its wholly-owned subsidiary
Austral Bronze Pty.). Income
from investments during the
term equalled 82.9 p.c. on paid
capital.
The development of the No.
3 shaft was continued during
the year and it is estimated that
£950,000 will be required to
complete the work planned over
the next few years.
World metal prices have firmed
slightly in recent weeks, but
there has, as yet, been no great
reaction to the disturbed state
of affairs in the Middle East.
Sellers have been asking £6 Bs.
for the f.-p. ss. ords., at which
price they would yield 8.3 p.c.
from a 210 p.c. div.
Gippsland Oil "
[From lj. Owen]
r T'HE obvious fact that the
first-discovered oil at Lakes
Entrance (Vic.) had suffered both
migration and inspissation
doesn’t seem to have been
questioned, seriously. This oil,
in fact, is correctly described as
a typical example of a fossil
oil-seep.
On the other hand, in the
case of the more-recently-struck
shows of Woodside petroleum,
although, on the available
evidence, there can be no real
doubt as to their migratory
nature, the conditions control-
ling that migration—particularly
through the brown-coal facies
of the Tertiary—have not been
fully appreciated.,
The data from wells Wood-
side Nos. 1 and 2 are conclusive
enough, if .properly interpreted,
and the barrenness of Wood-
side No. 3—in spite of “the vast
improvement in porosity and
permeability” recorded between
the depths of 1150 ft. and 1368 ft.
—might have been anticipated.
All these facts point to the
source of the Gippsland oil as
below the Jurassic, or, at very
highest, not far above the top
of the Carboniferous. This
assumption is strengthened by
the failure of two wells, drilled
clean through the marine
Tertiary sequence underlying the
Darriman structure. Gippsland
No. -1 well yvas abandoned at
the depth of 1962ft. and No. 2
at 800ft. No detectable trace of
oil or gas was noted in either
hole.
NEON SIGNS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS AT 25th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
OF SHAREHOLDERS HELD ON MONDAY, 12th NOVEMBER, 1956
I desire to move that the Balance
Sheet and the Directors’ Report and
Profit and Loss Account for the
year ended 30th June, 1956, be re-
ceived and adopted.
The profit for the year was £23,129,
after deducting tax of £15,034 and
after allowing for g writeoff of
£4,000 of non-recurring expenditure
against the year’s accounts.
This result the Directors regard as
very satisfactory and reflects the
steady nature of the business, par-
ticularly as the increased capital was
employed for only portion of the
year.
A final dividend of 6|% (being
12i% for the full year) is recom-
mended to be paid on Ordinary
Shares. This will absorb £17,500.
Unmatured rentals have jumped
by £26,269 in the year, making the
total now £435,695.
Income Tax rose by £1,606 above
the previous year, but the Directors
are confident that the Company will
derive substantial benefit in the
1957 accounts through its subsidiary
company. Apart from other advan-
tages, the liquidity of the Company’s
funds will be materially improved—
a very important factor in light of
current bank restrictions on over-
draft'which, in the past year and in
the months since balancing date, has
been drastically reduced. Of the
£40,000 of new capital raised, £10,000
had to be applied in reduction of
the bank loan.
In spite of high tax payments and
reductions in loan accounts, the bud-
geted level of production has been?,
maintained and new business and
renewal business written at satis-
factory margins.
I remind Shareholders that the
1955 profit rose by £9,000 to £39,112
—an increase of 30% over the prior
year. That represented an all time
high after a series of steadily in-
creasing profits.
This year’s £38,163 — less than
£1,000 below our so far best year —is
a fine performance. The complete
absorption in this year of non-
recurring expenses alone prevents it
being another record.
Few people realise the steadiness
and strength of neon companies.
The possession of contracts, many
with the top ranking industrial
organisations of Australia, under
which close on £500,000 is still to
be paid to us over periods from a
few months, up to a maximum of five
years is a solid asset which in the
history of this Company survived the
world’s greatest depression and the
world’s most devastating war.
This asset improved by £26,000
during this year as I have already
recorded.
In attempting to understand this
reserve of strength (which, I am
afraid, few do understand) we are
inclined to overlook two other fea-
tures of our accounts.
I refer firstly to profit.
Assume we carry on, as we do,
month, by month and year by year,
a steady controlled budget of sales
and production —• our profit is
assured, not for one year, but for
four years to five years ahead.
We are quite dissimilar from most
other trading companies.
In yesterday’s press two major
companies whose shares w r ere at a
considerable premium were critically
analysed, and the very real question
was asked whether they could main-
tain their profits—and, of course,
their current dividend rates —in tlie
immediate future.
I leave that to the conjecture
of those who know those industries
better than I.
What I wish to impress upon our
shareholders is that when we make
a profit we postpone 4/5tlis of that
profit to subsequent years.
In other ‘words, we only take
l/60th‘ part of the profit on any
contract into each month of the life
of that contract.
Naturally we capitalise l/60th part
of the cost, which, in essence, is the
prime cost plus overhead, incurred
in fulfilling that particular contract
—Jess maintenance for each year of
its existence.
So that, in effect, if we maintain
and service the installation for the
life of the contract, we may expect
our reward which is our unexpired
rentals.
I know few businesses which may
boast that they can confidently
anticipate their next 4/5ths years’
profits.
The third and last matter to
which I desire to refer is renewal
business.
I have, over many years, referred
to the value of this busineSs<when a
company has reached a certain stage
of development. Due to various cir-
cumstances this company did. not
write worthwhile renewal business
until 1949.
Now we have entered upon a
period which should be continuous,
wherein our rental renewals should
greatly aid our profit, and provide a
sound supplement to new business
For all these reasons I regard the
dividend return upon our shares one
of the best offering, and if the
investing public were to appreciate
this I believe that shares in neon
companies would be at a substan-
tially higher premium.
I remind shareholders that this is
our twenty-fifth anniversary year.
W. D. SYKES.
Chairman of Directors/


women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Despite threatening weather, 6000
guests attended the garden-party given
by the Governor and Lady Brooks at
Government House. But the beautiful
lawns suffered damage. Pretty shoes were
ruined by water and grass-stains, and one
guest had to be literally dug out, for her
spike-heels sank down into the turf and
she was bogged until rescued. Bright
blazers of Olympic visitors mingled with
the uniforms of the three Services and
the brightly-colored, toga-like robes of
smiling Nigerians.
Lady Brooks wore a silk-shantung suit
and fitted jacket of kingfisher-blue with
a small orchid-pink hat trimmed with
matching roses. Lady Herring, wife of
the Chief Justice, chose a slate-blue silk-
shantung suit and a matching wide-
brimmed hat. Mrs. H. E. Bolte’s straight
coat of Ottoman-silk in cornflower-blue
was worn with a matching pleated-straw
toque.
Olympic visitors included Lord Luke
(member of the International Olympic
Committee) and Lady Luke; Italian
1.0. C. representatives Count Paolo Thaon
di Revel and his daughter Gabriella, and
Dr. and Sign Ora Stefani. The Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck) and U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner
chatted with former world sprint cham-
pion Jesse Owens.
Lady Disney’s suit of French-gold wool
featured the new long jacket, which was
banded with kolinsky-fur ; her tiny toque
was of similar material and finished with
fur. Mrs. Ronald Nott chose a jacket
suit of black-and-white-patterned silk’
and a tiny black velvet hat. Mrs. Maurice
Nathan wore with her Honan natural-silk
suit a pillbox hat of grey-and-blue
pleated-silk ; her small black silk parasol
was spotted with diamente. Mrs. Ray
Joseph, wore a slim frock in cinnamon-
brown wool and a hat in deeper tonings.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was quite a dramatic moment:
Premier Bolte pushed a switch at the
Town Hall, and immediately the whole
city was illuminated, throwing into high
relief the pennants, bunting and flags
which decorated the streets.
At the same time the huge Olympic
Torch, hung high above the intersection
of Flinders-street and Swanston-street,
glowed brilliantly, and a mighty shout
went up from the huge crowd gathered in
that area.
The most unusual and original decora-
tion in the city is the diorama which
stretches across the wide facade of a store
in Bourke-street. At first, the onlooker
sees a view of John Batman and his com-
panions, who have just come off a small
sailing-vessel in the Yarra, with bush
trees fading into the distance. In the
foreground is the life-size model of an
aborigine, rubbing sticks together to
make his fire. The smoke from the fire
forms the five Olympic symbols seen
against the blue of the sky. But, while
the aborigine and the small furry animals
remain, John Batman and the bush dis-
appear and make way for a new scene:
the present-day skyline of cathedral and
tall buildings, their spires and towers
pointing the progress made since the first
settlement.
On the veranda of a large store opposite
the diorama life-size models of Greek
athletes tell the Olympic story.
The Olympic Games fever is really on
and the condition becomes more hectic
with each day. The city has become one
large amusement-park, with the Games
opening now due.
☆ ☆ ☆ ,
“Meet the Australians” is the slogan
of the Olympic Civic Information
Centre’s hospitality-section in the Lower
Town Hall. The theme was introduced
to Mrs. John Chaldjian, hospitality-
officer of the Olympic Civic Committee,
by Mr. Bernard Parsons, who visited
Copenhagen last year with his wife and
saw there a hospitality-scheme with that
kind of title.
The hospitality-section, which was
opened by the Lord Mayor (Cr. Sir
Frank Selleck), will be staffed by volun-
teers, for the next three weeks from
9 a.m. to 9. p.m. They will welcome
visitors and put them in touch with
people. If it is a day in the Hills, or to
see a koala or platypus, or spend a week-
end in the country, visit one of the big
industries or sample a little of Australian
family life, there will be a host and hostess
to help them to their brand of hospitality.
Eight - thousand posters featuring
“Meet the Australians,” with a back-
ground of two clasped hands, have been
distributed throughput Melbourne. There
are interpreters ready to help those not
fluent in English, while strangers needing
help in getting from one point of the
city to another will be guided by Boy
Scouts. As a nice touch, too, those call-
ing on the hospitality-centre are each
presented with a small, very neat gilt
brooch bearing the word “Visitor” and,
in color, the five Olympic rings. For
months Mrs. Chaldjian has been working
hard on the hospitality side of the Civic
Committee; she can now, see something
for her hard work.
The Lord Mayor also opened the
American Visitors’ Centre, on the sixth-
floor of the Myer Emporium. Sponsored
by the Australian-American Association,
it will be staffed each day by members of
the association's Women’s Group. Sir
John Latham, Federal president of the
A.A.A., introduced both the Lord Mayor
and U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner.
The centre will remain open until Decem-
ber 12 ; its hours, 9.15 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Monday to Friday and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday. At the opening
were Mrs. S. Baillieu Myer, accompanied
by her two sons, Kenneth and Baillieu
Myer, and her son-in-law Ross Shelmer-
dine ; U.S. Consul J. Wiedenmayer and
his wife, Cr. and Mrs. ; John Buchan,
Lieut.-Gen. Smart and Mrs. Smart, and
Mr. P. Hamilton.
Dame Mabel Brookes, president of the
Queen Victoria Hospital and of the Lort
Smith Animal Welfare League, is one
of the busiest women in this city, and
now will be one of the principal hostesses
during this Olympic season. With her
husband, Sir Norman Brookes, she will
entertain a number of important overseas
Olympic officials and visitors at a lun-
cheon on November 25; it will be at her
seaside home, Cliff House, Mt. Eliza. A
few days later Dame Mabel will be
hostess at an Olympic dinner-dance at
Menzies’ Hotel; it has been organised by
the Victoria League in Victoria and Dame
Mabel is president of the function’s
committee. It has been a special thrill for
Dame Mabel to have her book, “Crowded
Galleries,” released at this time. John
Warlow picture.
The first of the 01ympic*Games parties
was tbe reception given by the Minister
to the Republic of China (Dr. Chen Tai
Chu), his wife and the Consul, Mr. K. Y.
Leung. Party was set in the Diamond
Room, Earl’s Court, St. Kilda, and guests-
of-honor were the Olympic team of the
Republic of China.
Madame Chen Tai Chu looked most
attractive in a national costume; this
was short, of oyster-grey satin, embroi-
dered in gold thread. Green-jade fish
were pinned in the high neckline. Many
of the guests wore lovely Chinese clothes,
too, among them Mrs. Andrew Chan in
a pale-gold satin-brocade gown. Recent
arrival from Formosa Ling Min Wen
chose hyacinth-blue satin embroidered in
a foliage design worked in white beads
and crystals.
Three specially honored guests were
the widows of Lord Mayors who did
splendid work in securing the Games for
this city—Lady Beaurepaire, Lady Con-
nelly and Lady Disney. Lady Disney
received a great welcome, for she has
been out of the social swim for some time,
because of illness. Now greatly recovered,
she looked very attractive in a smart black
suit and mink stole; her tiny cap was of
grey satin with touches of red and black
in the trimming.
Other guests were Mr. and Mrs. W.
Kent Hughes, President of the Legisla-
tive Council Sir Clifden Eager and Lady
Eager, Minister for Electrical Undertak-
ings Reid and Mrs. Reid, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, French Consul
M. Le Bas de Plumetot and his wife, and
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. Frank Menzies,
Canadian Commercial Secretary Roy
Blake and Mrs. Blake, and Miss Marion
McPherson.
Although a newcomer to the profes-
sional stage, Eunice McGowan is well
known in Melbourne’s amateur circles.
She is now'singing with the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s Opera Co.; her big role,
Dorabella in “Cosi Fan Tutti.” In private
life she is Mrs. Palmer, lives at East Bent-
leigh and is the mother of four-months-
old Amanda Jane. While her mother is
on tour Amanda Jane is cared for by her
grandmother. Eunice has.a collection of
earrings to which she is always adding.
Switzerland’s Olympic team were
guests-of-honor in absentia —it was still
uncertain at the weekend whether they
would arrive in time for the Qpening of
the Games —when Swiss Consul-General
H. G. Hedinger and Consul M. Paul
Emile Cattin and Madame Cattin gave a
late-afternoon reception at the Dorchester.
Madame Hedinger wore a sheath-frock
of black satin with an amber-brown
toque; Madame Cattin added to her
bronze taffeta frock a small flower-
trimmed brown hat. Among the guests
were Minister for Irpmigration and Labor
Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt, Sir John and
Lady Teasdale, U.S. Consul J. Wieden-
mayer and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. E.
Goetz (he is the Olympic Attache to the
Swiss team), Mr. and Mrs. Max Ammann,
Mr. and Mrs. Naumann, Chancellor of
the Swiss Consulate Hans Steinacher and
his wife, Mr. Emile Buff (president of the
Swiss Club) and Mrs. Buff, Mr. John
Eugster (president of the Swiss Society),
and Mr. and Mrs. R. Baenziger. .
☆ ☆ ☆
Another function with an Olympic
flavor was the late-afternoon party given
at their Malvern home by Mr. Julius
Pollack and Mrs. Pollack (he is president
of the Australian Amateur Fencing
Federation). Members of the Inter-
national Fencing Federation and fencing
officials were present. The host and
hostess were assisted by the -vice-
president, the Hon. Simon' Warrender,
and Mrs. Warrender. Mrs. Pollack
chose a sheath-frock of beige satin,
Mrs. Warrender a silk
frock patterned in pink roses. Guest-
of-honor was Major-General Gustav
Dryssen, of Sweden, president of the
International Modern Pentathlon Union.
Other guests included Arthur Calwell,
Mr. and Mrs. John X. O’Driscoll, Air-
Vice-Marshal A. M. Charlesworth and
his wife, Lieut.-General Garratt and Mrs.
Garratt, Mrs. Leslie Cohen, Mrs. Guy
Morrison, Gillian Sheen (she is British
fencing-champion and will compete in the
Games), French Consul M. Le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife and Mrs. Gladys
Myer.
■£r rir ☆
International Olympic Committee
president Avery Brundage arrived
to go to Flemington for the Olympic Cup
meeting and to present the Cup to the
owner of ,the winning horse. He was
accompanied by Mrs. Brundage. Lady
Brooks (who afterw'ards left the course
by helicopter) wore a rose-pink wool
Princess-coat and small matching tam-
borine-hat swathed with organza. Lady
Bridgeford had a wide-brimmed wattle-
yellow straw hat wreathed with roses to
go with her coat of junior-blue Ottoman
silk. One of the loveliest hats seen was
that worn by Mrs. A. G. Silk with a full-
length *mink coat. It was made of four
lqrge cerise silk roses with yellow centres.
Mrs. Lois Millgate’s unusual hat was of
beige straw in a large basin-shape;
Olympic circles in orange-braid were
sewn on the brim and covered with rust-
red tulle, from which sprouted an Olympic
flame of tulle. A novel bag was carried
by Mrs. John Mullany. Of black leather,
it was embroidered with a large white-
beaded French-poodle.
A lovely beige wool coat with a large
collar of snow-leopard was worn by Mrs.
Morris Sallmann with a tiny matching
beige hat. Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon was
accompanied by Canadian visitor Miss
A. Sundstrom, who wore a suit of Hunt-
ing Stewart tartan with a large Breton
sailor-hat of white felt. Mrs. Oscar
Hammerstein wore a charming toque of
orange, lime-green, purple and navy-
striped silk with her coat of navy wool.
☆ ☆ ☆
The traditional racing-carnival buffet-
dinner party was given by Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside in their Toorak home.
The reception-rooms were massed with
pink and cream roses, rhododendrons
and iris. The hostess wore a sheath-frock
of amber-brown French-lace in a rose
design, mounted on cafe au lait satin.
Among the guests were Sir Frank and
Lady Tait; Sir Albert arid Lady Coates;
U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner and
his wife ; Sir Arthur and Lady Warner
(her slim frock being of champagne-
tinted guipure-lace); Dr. and Mrs.
Cunningham Dax (her black frock
worn with a pastel-blue tulle tamborme-
hat); and Lady Beaurepaire.
CANBERRA
Lady Carrington, wife of the new High
Commissioner for U.K., Lord Carring-
ton, has taken up residence in her new
home, Canberra House. Meeting Lady
Carrington one is immediately aware of
her lively personality and warm friendli-
ness. Tall, slim and graceful, she wears
cornflower-blue to perfection, blending
with her blue eyes and lovely complexion.
Her first impressions of Australia were
the vastness of the country and the
warmth of the welcome she and her family
received. On arrival in Sydney, Lord
and Lady Carrington were guests of the
Governor of N.S.W. and Lady Northcott,
and at once felt a link with Australia .when
they recognised the Carrington crest at
Government House and were shown
some old crested china which had be-
longed to Lord Carrington’s great-uncle,
a former Governor of N.S.W- around the
turn of the century.
Lady Carrington is a keen gardener and
charity-worker; her favorite cause in
England was the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Children. She is look-
ing forward to her appointment as presi-
dent of the A.C.T. Division of Red Cross.
Her three children are very excited about
their new home and are showing great
interest in Australia’s native birds.
☆ ☆ ☆
As a finale to their annual inter-State
convention at Industry House, the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures enter-
tained at a buffet-dinner party at the
Hotel Canberra. And a right royal repast
it was, with glazed turkeys, decorated
hams, huge lobsters and a host of
trimmings to delight the eye as well as
the palate, personally supervised by famed
hotelier T- A. Thorpe, just back from a
world tour.
The president, John G. Hurley, and
Mrs. Hurley received the guests,
assisted by director Latham Withall and
his wife. The 400 guests included
Parliamentarians, members of diplomatic
missions and inter-State visitors with
delegates to the convention. Among those
noted were the Minister for Defence, Sir
Philip Mcßride ; Mr. Warren McDonald;
the secretary of the Department of the
Interior, W. A. McLaren, and Mrs.
McLaren, she wearing a black velvet
cocktail . frock ; Major-General lan
Campbell and Mrs. Campbell, who pinneu
a corsage of lily-of-the-valley on her
full-length black faille coat; Mr. Cyril
Davies, his wife looking elegant in a
pure-silk model frock patterned in rose
and white, worn with a white platter -
hat; the Victorian Director of F^ nc J’
Mr. Smithers ; and Mr. and Mrs. C. A.
Inman, she wearing a black suit wit-
white accessories.


mituiutisi
fiwwougtamiS
1
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
Prices from
29/b to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
C 8 IS IS k Y | i { | | I T i 0 8.1 TO. 10 19 9 8
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD CECIL MELLON late of
42 Tooke Street Cooks Hill. —TAKE
NOTICE that FLORENCE MAY MELLON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3715
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
vou may enter an appearance in the
Divorce * Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th January 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Soli-
cifor, 44 King Street, Newcastle. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas, \
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
{NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or N
British Empire £2/13/0 Foreign £3/0/-
is
Z.
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SUN DRY
SHOWS
Allbursts
More Contemporaries
Really the most harrowing
injustice is done to many good
Australian painters who are
always excluded from such
travelling art-shows as the
Pacific Loan exhibition now at
the N. S. Wales National Gallery.
In what way is A. 3. Murch,
for example, any less “contem-
porary” than his contemporary
William Dobell? Why is
Norman Lindsay, the one genius
this country has yet produced,
always left in his splendid
isolation up at Springwood?
Why is Newcastle Beach, in-
geniously cut to bright little
pieces by John Passmore, put in
while the seapieces of Lance
Solomon, magnificent in their
sensitive observation, are left
out? Why is G. K. Townshend,
and one or two other first-class
watercolorists with him, always
excluded?
This exhibition was arranged
by the Orient Line in collabo-
ration with the National Gallery
Society of N. S. Wales and had
the co-operation-of the National
Gallery of Victoria: and when
the national galleries have a hand
in such shows there should be a
broader, more responsible out-
look.
But, within its limits, as a
strictly “contemporary” exhibi-
tion, this is lively enough.
If there are far too many
abstracts a cul-de-sac, as
Wyndham Lewis called it, from
which few painters are going to
emerge with anything worth
while —there is still the pleasure
of seeing how much William
Dobell, by a nice arrangement
of green and silver, can do with
a handful of decapitated sar-
dines. There are such old
friends as Drysdale’s children
dancing in the desert and Sidney
Nolan’s lighthearted “Dead
Duck Mine.”
There are works of merit by
Jean Bellette, Cedric Flower,
James Gleeson, Francis Lym-
burner and Elaine Haxton ; and,
among paintings one had not
seen before, Frank Hodgkinson's
surprising “Crayfish” hooks its
way into notice, as also does
Eric Smith’s “Sermon on the
Mount,” which looks beautiful
in its simplicity in reproduction
in the catalogue and, if a little
rougher, hardly less effective in
the original.
* * «*
Christmas Show
An early Christmas exhibition
at Jane Glad’s gallery, Hunter’s
Hill, Sydney, has a group of
Norman Lindsay watercolors for
its highlights, also a couple of
new Lance Solomon landscapes.
Howard Ashton is represented
by a large, spectacular oil,
“Longreef, Narrabeen” and
some smaller coast-paintings;
there are watercolors by Ronald
Fletcher, Dora Jar ret and Mar-
garet Coen ; and several charm-
ing lithos of cats and birds by
Eileen Mayo, notably “Cat in
the Sun” and “Doves.”
Stage and Music
New Sydney Shows
A general reshuffle of Sydney
shows was going on as this page
went to the printer.
Doris Fitton’s Independent at
North Sydney has come up with
a superb production (by William
Rees) of N. C. Hunter’s “Waters
of the Moon,” with Miss Fitton
herself turning in a dazzling per-
formance ; the amazing per-
formers of the Chinese Classical
Theatre have moved from the
Tiv. to the Royal for a week-
anyone who hasn’t seen them
shouldn’t miss the extra oppor-
tunity—and Gilsullivan moves
into the Empire tonight with
“The Gondoliers.”
The Tiv.’s new show is the
“Good Old Days,” with George
Wallace, Jim Gerald, Maurice
Colleano, Jenny Howard and a
string of other fine and familiar
names; when the Chinese
singers, dancers and acrobats
have had their week at the Royal,
“Tea and Sympathy” moves in
next Saturday * night; and the
new offering at the Elizabethan
Theatre, Newtown, is “The Rain-
makers,” the successful London
and New York piece produced
here by Leo McKern.
One show which gives no sign
of changing yet is William Orr’s
review, “Around the Loop,” at
the Phillip-street Theatre; a
breezy and tuneful sling-off at
things in general, which has been
running for so long that one
might say it’s time to see it again,
anyway.
♦!«
Australian Opera
“Cosi Fan Tutte,” the most
sparkling of Mozart’s operas and
the last shot in the Australian
Opera Company’s locker at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, can
always be depended on to pro-
vide a light and pleasant even-
ings even with an indifferent
performance.
.There was Nothing breath-
taking, but nothing hard to take,
in Stefan Haag's smooth produc-
tion, nor were there any awkward
patches, as in “The Magic Flute.”
The scenery by Tim Walton was
simple but imaginative, and
included a couple of real live
fantail-pigeons. The only item
to complain of in Louis Kahan’s
costuming was Fiordiligi’s rigout,
which was most odd.
Fiordiligi was sung well by
Marjorie Conley and acted vvell
into the bargain, and the giggling
vivacity of Dorabella was com-
bined with a sweet voice in the
possession of Eunice McGowan.
John Cameron threw himself
around the stage as Graziano,
but kept his voice in strict
control, even in the shrillest
falsetto.
Kevin Miller forced a some-
what thin voice into the service
of Ferrando, and Jenifer Eddy
was as delightfully vivacious as
Mozart’s music. Keith Neilson
gave an effortless performance
as Don Alfonso, and seemed to
be enjoying himself.
In Joseph Post the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra had the
ideal Mozart conductor, and in
Bertha Jorgensen the ideal leader.
♦jt ♦> ❖
Katherine Dunham
This commentator went along
to the opening of the Brisbane
season of the Katherine Dunham
company in a somewhat sceptical
mood, but five minutes after
curtain-burst he was as voodooed
as ever Sydney or Melbourne had
been.
The boisterous gaiety of these
dancers in ensemble work
forced comparisons, perhaps
unfairly, with the many festive
occasions in the standard-ballet
repertory, sweeping them all
before its high-spirited surge.
Had this exuberance been the
only quality, the entertainment as
a whole may have palled, but
throughout, from African jungle
to hofiky-tonk, there was also
a finely-spun imaginative quality
investing settings, costumes and
music alike.
Indeed, when the senses have
been restored after the onslaught
of color and sound, it is the little
things—the fingerprints of this
imaginative touch —that remain:
the pastoral vignette of the two
peasant women under the spell
of Pan; the exotic hammock in
which Miss Dunham empathised
herself into Madame Bovary;
the red shoes on the shimmy
girls; the silent dancer to the
spirituals; the honky-tonk
sequence, with the • dancing of
Vanoye Aikens, as far removed
from classical ballet as Kenya
is from Moscow, but with an
innate classicism of its own.
If a fault must be noted, it
was the occasional lack of a
clear theme in some of the
sketches as a whole. Some of
the incidents seemed to be insuffi-
cient seeds to germinate into
such frenzied colors, but as this
is a fault common to many
modern ballets, Miss Dunham’s 1
moments of failure are in goodly
company.
Val Vallis.
& *
Germani
Melbourne apparently cannot
have enough of the playing of
Fernando Germani, so the
Pope’s organist is back once
more arousing the Town Hall
organ out of the long sleep im-
posed on it by the City Fathers.
As the organ has been the
city’s chief white elephant for as
far back as anyone can
remember, comparisons with
mahouts appear to be in order.
Germani drives the instrument
with his feet as much as with his
hands, and his feet seem to be
even more supple, sensitive and
expressive than . his fingers —
extraordinarily so when he comes
to a work by his favorite
composer.
Bach’s Toccata, Adagio and
Fugue in C t positively danced
under his ministrations, and the
contrast between warm and cool
moods was amazing. Daquin, a
17th-century composer, whose
“Noel” sounded remarkably
modern, gave the organist an
opportunity for displaying his
technical proficiency as well as
his musical feeling.
Cesar Franck’s “Grande Piece
Symphonique” could not be
faulted. The wonderfully smooth
flow of the music was maintained
to a satisfying conclusion.
*l* ❖
“Death of a Salesman”
Arthur Miller’s moving story
of Willy Loman, the suburban
Van Gogh with the dream of
being a super-salesman, was
given a remarkably smooth
passage by the Union Repertory
Company at Melbourne Uni-
versity.
Frank Gatliff brought tears
to the eyes with his portrayal
of Willy’s descent from the
sunlit peaks of hope to the valley
of despair and suicide —a Van
Gogh on a lower scale of values.
June Brunell was touching as
the wife who ministered to his
sickness and only helped to push
him further under. Frederick
Parslow and Edward Webster
were good as Biff and Happy,
the salesman’s sons who prefer
football to following in their
father’s shaky footsteps.
As Uncle Ben, Wyn Roberts
was splendid. Appearing like
a stage devil whenever Willy got
into a crisis, he reminded him
sepulchraliy that he himself
plunged into the commercial
jungle at 19 and at 21 emerged
with a fortune.
As the woman who is having
a furtive relationship with the
salesman, Joan Harris was
unconvincing—it is difficult to
believe that even Willy would
have jeopardised his career and
his domestic felicity for any-
body seeming so silly.
Producer Wal Cherry handled
the flashback technique very
astutely.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Ulterior Motifs”
Canberra Repertory ended its
year with a light musical, run-up
for the occasion by Anne
Godfrey - Smith and Ric
Throssell, with music by Peter
Sculthorpe.
“Ulterior Motifs” loses itself
between a farce and a skit. If it
it is a farce, it needs more plot
and characters instead of mouth-
pieces. If it is a skit on public-
■service and Parliamentary
foibles, it needs topicality and a
subtler turn to satire on familiar
themes. Whichever it is, it needs
more wff in its line§.
Peter Sculthorpe’s music is
always apt and pleasant, though
his skill doesn’t seem to lie in
the field of catchy tunes.
On the opening night, some
of Repertory’s best actors seemed
ill at ease as they tried to force
the piece along. Those of the
large cast who did not succumb
to the temptation to overact
scored best, among them being
Max Purnell, Paul Kreig, Alison
Alpen, Joy Warren and Edwin
Ride, whose good voice, aplomb
and sense of comedy did much to
carry the show.
Georgina Worth was respon-
sible for the nonsensical and
colorful sets, and Anne Godfrey-
Smith for the production.
. J. M. G.
Talkies
“Raising a Riot” (Sydney
Embassy): An English wife is
called away to her ailing parents
in Canada just when her naval-
officer husband arrives on leave
after three years’ service. He
cockily volunteers to take control
of their three children in
her absence, and sets to it, mostly
lofted-up in an old windmill in
the country, where his handy-
man-father, an American
airman’s wife practising child-
psychology, her sweet young
American sister and a couple of
shaggy dogs help raise the riot.
The result is a ripper of an
English comedy. As the father,
Kenneth More —star of “Gene-
vieve” and “Doctor in the
House” —gives an even better
performance in this. The
support-characters are remark-
ably well drawn and the children
delightful.
“Neapolitan Fantasy” (Sydney
Paris): An attempt to capture
300 years of the history of
Naples in a fantasy of ballet
and song, with an ageless organ-
grinder acting as compere.
Though the individual pictures
are pleasant enough in their own
right, the film fails to achieve
the obvious object of writer-
producer Ettore Giannini —it is
almost as ambitious as an
attempt to portray the Aus-
tralian outback with a bar from
“Waltzing Matilda” and the last
half of a corroboree. Compen-
sation comes in the inevitable
graph of the Italian female —
from coquettish teenagers to the
singular beauty of Sophia Loren
—and it is worth sitting through
two hours of at least brilliantly
colorful fantasy to hear three or
four songs from Beniamino
Gigli.
“A Kiss Before Dying”
(Sydney Mayfair): A mystery-
thriller in which an American
college-youth gets his goil into
trouble and decides that her
untimely passing is the best solu-
tion. Failing this end with a
chem.-lab. mixture, he, takes the
infatuated miss off to the
registry-office, which is con-
veniently closed for lunch, then
escorts her to the rooftop, where,
with a parting kiss, he sends her
over. Only then does the plot
begin to warm, especially when
the dead girl’s unsuspecting
cousin is introduced as the
murderer’s wife-to-be. Though
it contains a solid dash of edge-
of-the-seat stuff, the film is
weighed-down by tame perform-
ances* from a cast of justifiably
little-knowns.


MYEE
By LYNDALL HADOW
‘ ‘T'TrrAKE up, Margaret.
\X / Time to get ready,
W dear.”
Aunt appeared at
the door of my mosquito-room,
calm and unhurried, dressed for
the afternoon. I had heard her
leave her room on the veranda
at the other side of the bungalow.
No matter how quietly she
moved I was always aware of her
progress. On this occasion I had
traced her every movement.
When Aunt woke, her bed
gave off a soft, sighing sound,
a ghost of a whisper as though
her large, plump body resting
on its comfortable soft springs
communicated to this bed her
wish not to have to rise, not to
have to put her feet to the
ground so they must bear her
weight around in the tight kid
shoes that Uncle liked her to
wear. It was as though my aunt’s
body whispered to her bed that
it would like to stay there,
covered only by a soft silk
Chinese robe, rather than to rise
and be moulded into a shape
designed to please the master of
the house.
"I dress to please my
husband.”
Despite the understanding sigh
of the bed, I knew Aunt’s next
moves were towards this end.
The ritual of the bath ; the warm,
scented water that the house-
boy handed to her in its copper
can as she waited at the door;
the ladling of cold from the tank
on the floor, her gasps and
shudders as she sat in the
Shanghai jar, her comfort-
loving body shrinking from the
water that had stood in the dark
dampness of the bath-house
until it was cold enough to make
her skin like the underside of a
frog—this ritual, engaged in by
Aunt at least twice a day, was,
I knew, in some way connected
with Uncle and with Aunt’s
desire to please him always..
So also was the lavish powder-
ing with the swansdown*
puff that left a pink film
on the floor for the boy
to sweep away; and the
careful painting of her face
—the rose-colored lotion
patted into her tight smooth skin
and left to dry while the bow of
her lips was formed over her
pearly, protruding teeth; the
coating of powder and the rouge ;
mascara and the touch of shadow
under her small round eyes; the
smoothing of the eyebrows with
the tiny brush ; and then her
hair.
Coiled and curled and pinned
and rolled, with a bow here and
a comb there and finished off
with brilliantine and a spraying
of perfume, her fair, mousey
hair, which would have suited
her plainly modelled, now always
reminded me of the girl who
worked in the Occidental Hotel
just at the edge of the European
quarter. But the girl was half
Aunt’s age.
Lying in the moist afternoon
heat, I had followed all Aunt’s
moves. A fascinated conjecturing
concerned with their ultimate
purpose usually kept me alert
once the whisper of the bed had
disturbed me: and on this
occasion nothing could have kept
me from being wide awake and
ready to dress at four-o’clock—
for this was the occasion of my
first grown-up visiting: my aunt
and I were invited to tea at the
Residency.
A/TR. Galway, the Resident,
iTJ - held no mystery for me.
In our town every European
knew every other European. My
uncle worked under the direction
of the Resident; they often came
,in together on their way from
the courthouse and Uncle would
bide his impatience to be alone
with Aunt while' Mr. Galway
sucked his whisky stengah and
talked about the caste girls at the
mission. He played tennis with
my uncle in the courthouse
grounds ; often he came swim-
ming with us when the tide was
right. There was no mystery
about the Resident so far as I
was concerned ; it was his house,
the Residency up on the hill,
around which my imagination
sauntered, tantalised.
I had never known a house
without a woman.
When my mother died I had
been shipped across to my aunt.
Mother had been all of our
home; Aunt was all of my new
home; the European girls at my
convent school all had mothers
who were their homes.. Even
when the mothers went for holi-
days away from the heat, they
left their presence behind them ;
their tropical clothes still hung
in their wardrobes; their servants
still followed the daily routine
laid down by their mistresses;
always their bungalows breathed
of their personalities.
But the Residency—how did
Mr. Galway make a home of the
big white bungalow, the woman-
less house up on the hill?
Today I’d find the answer.
Aunt said, “It’s four-o’clock.
Matsumoto promised he’d be
here at quarter-past.” I grabbed
a cotton gown and skipped out
to the bath and back again and
into cotton underwear, the tight
briefs and bodice that Aunt said
were correct for a twelve-year-
old, and buttoned myself into a
green linen—my very best. Aunt
brushed my hair quickly and
plaited it, tying the ends tightly,
first with tapes, then with
ribbons. While she went to her
dressing-room, the core and
centre of the home, to put on her
fluffy hat and veil, I found my
own best straw and white wash-'
ing gloves. I was ready. Young
and flat, as I remember ; but the
change was great from my
convent uniform or the gingham
play-dresses Aunt kept for my
holiday wear.
Outside our gate, on the
beaten-earth path beside the wide
gutter covered with green creep-
ing sarsaparilla and blue-
splashed convolvulus, Matsu-
moto’s open car was waiting.
Matsumoto blew the horn —he
knew Uncle was not at home —
and Aunt said to her houseboy,
“Tell Matsumoto we come.”
The houseboy was Friday—
Friday the Eighth, I think ; all
Aunt’s ’boys were Friday; she
had a new one every few months
because she couldn’t get them to
do things her way. She said they
were stupid, but as a child I
thought she didn’t make things
plain to them. Uncle said she
didn’t handle them strictly
enough.
Friday went out to the gate
and standing well back from the
car, he mumbled, “Missus come.”
The Japanese taximan spat,
leaned over, opened the car’s,
back door. Aunt was busy
pulling down blinds, opening
shutters, while I stood waiting,
impatient of her slow, careful
routine. Then she picked up her
sunshade and at last we were on
our way.
A T the gate Friday, clinging to
the rail, fumbled awkwardly
at the job of moving out of our
way.
“Oh, get out, boy, get out,”
Aunt grumbled as his big splay
feet shushed up the red dust on
her white kid shoes. We passed
through, and he co-ordinated
thought and action sufficiently to
close it behind us. Then he
leaned on it, watching, with the
curiosity of a child, the white
missus and the half-grown white
girl and the yellow man and his
machine.
Aunt said, her handkerchief
at her nose, “The smell! ”
I knew I should sniff and
agree, but the smell of the black
men and their women didn’t
worry me. It was part of them,
as was their colqr, and if we had
them to work for us, we should
accept them as they were. The
native girl who worked in our
laundry had told me that the
blacks didn’t like the smell of
the white people ; but they were
too polite to sniff at us.
“Stop and pick up Mrs. Hunter
at her place, Matsumoto.”
The driver said nothing;
merely moved his shoulder to
acknowledge that he’d heard. I
was surprised that Mrs. Hunter
was coming too.
Aunt had said, that morning
at breakfast on the veranda,
“I’m going to tea at the Resi-
dency today, Harold. Taking
Margaret.”
Aunt was in a silk gown over
all the tight lacing she wore, and
high-heeled slippers: and she
smelled of “Jicky.”
Uncle, perspiring already, his
white drill suit creased here and
there, had a vein beating in his
forehead. He was older than
Aunt and fatter and he’d lived
in the tropics all his life. Aunt
had been working at the Occi-
dental when he married her.
People thought it queer, so soon
after the death of his first wife,
who really was a lady. But they
soon got round to liking my
aunt —or pretending to, which
evidently was just as satisfactory.
This morning at the breakfast-
table, Uncle grunted, said “I’ll
call for you then,” finished his
coffee, clattered his chair back
and went to his dressing-room.
Aunt put down the piece of
Melba toast she was nibbling and
followed him in as usual to say
goodbye. I stayed until I heard
his car go off ; then I skittered in
to Aunt’s mosquito-room where
she was lying down on her
comfortable bed.
“Am I really going to tea at
the Residency, Aunt? Really?”
' Aunt said, “Nothing to fuss
over. Of course. Now run along
and do your practice. You know
you promised Sister Mary
Veronica to do three hours a
day all the holidays.”
So while I worked at scales
and exercises I thought of the
afternoon in terms of Aunt and
myself at the Residency. Now
Mrs. Hunter was coming too.
Like someone who sees a
precious possession threatened,
I wondered, “How will she affect
the visit?”
Perhaps she would say some-
thing about seeing and not hear-
ing me. Perhaps she’d want to
leave early and we’d have to
come home before I’d seen all I
wanted to see. Perhaps! Mrs.
Hunter would offer me cake and
expect me to like it and not
ask for sandwiches. I didn’t eat
sweet things. Perhaps she might
make Aunt angry by saying how
big I was growing—the only
times I’d heai>d her being angry
and she’d answer, “Nonsense!
Margaret’s still just a child!”
Or perhaps Mrs. Hunter would
talk about the girl at the Occi-
dental and I’d be sent out of the
room.
Mrs. Hunter was waiting on
the veranda, showing her new
houseboy, Darkie the Eighth,
how to water the cannas. She
was always showing new ’boys
how to water cannas. She said
they were stupid, but I thought
she didn’t make things plain to
them. She came down the path,
holding her handkerchief to her
nose.
“The smell,” she said as she
climbed in the back seat with
Aunt and me. “My word, how
Margaret’s growing! She’s filling
out fast.”
“Nonsense,” my aunt snapped,
“she’s only a child.”
There were about twelve
women at the Residency—quite
a tea-party: and I was the only
girl.
The Resident was at the front
door when we drove in along
the wide, white, shell path. He
helped Aunt down and then Mrs.
Hunter: and I climbed down
by myself.
Matsumoto started to move
off and Aunt said, “Harold’s
coming for us, Mr. Galway”:
so the Resident called, with a
wave of his hand, “Don’t come
back, Matsumoto,” and the
Japanese moved his shoulder
and drove away.
TNSIDE, the ladies were sitting
A and the Resident’s ’boy, called
Nipper, was pulling a punkah.
Nipper used to come to our
place often, with messages; and
he watered the Resident’s
garden—he was usually working
in it as I passed on my way from
the convent. He used to wash
and polish the Resident’s car,
too ; once I saw him grinning at
himself, making faces, in the
shiny black door as he rubbed it.
So today I said, “Hullo,
Nipper,” and he smiled just as
he had done that day. I always
thought the and their
women were happy people,
really. Though they were digni-
fied in their own quiet way, the}
seemed to like laughing: but
they didn’t laugh if you were
always nagging at them.
Aunt and I sat on a big flat


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—In Divorce. '
TO GARNET KEITH CALDWELL for-
merly of 41 pollingwood Avenue Flinders
Park S.A. later of various places. near
Perth W.A. and of Port Augusta Leigh
Creek and Loxton S.A. last heard of
travelling to Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife GLADYS LORNA CATH-
LEEN CALDWELL has issued a Writ for
Divorce No. 384 of 1956 on the grounds
of habitual cruelty for one year and up-
wards and of desertion for three years.
If you desire to be heard you must file
an appearance at the Master’s Office
Supreme Court Adelaide South Australia
within 30 days of this advertisement,
otherwise orders for divorce custody of
the child maintenance and costs may
be made against you in your absence.—
FRANCIS GIBSON HICKS, 20 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, S.A., Solicitor for the
Plain tiff.
mt a
Mr/m
Vw M C'
A
a*
a
Sw»a»
£SA
:
<s
«?3S
JMf J
Blades
4'4
G
u
«tle
S^F
tTy
1
29
§g
tie
>'i
n
G
B*
A*
TV
SA
5S®
42
10 0
V
How his eyes will light up when he
receives his new Gillette Razor Set! He
probably hasn't had a new razor for
years and his old one is quite out of
date! How hell thank you for those
mornings and mornings of smoother,
quicker shaving! There are Gillette
Razor Sets in a wide variety of attractive
sets ranging in price from 6 7 6 to 42 ; 6.
• Gillette Set No. 66. Quick-
action, otie-piece “Aristocrat”
razor and 10-blade dispenser
in handsome lizard case. 42/6
• Gillette Set No. 54. Famous
Gillette “Rocket" Set with
quick-action razor and 6-blade
dispenser 10/6
• Gillette Set No. 58. Rich,
red, leatherette case containing
quick-action razor and 10-blade
dispenser 29/6
' • Gillette Quick-feed Dispen-
sers wrapped in gay Christinas
cellophane. 20 Blades, 8/8;
10 Blades, 4/4
Not illustrated: Gillette Set
No. 59 at 21/6, Set No. 22
at 37/6 and No. 24 at 6/6.
/
Give him
8152 D
rattan couch, and Mrs. Hunter
took a seat in a corner in a
wicker chair. The room was
big; dim too, because the green-
and-white striped blinds kept the
light out. It seemed cooler be-
cause of that. It was like most
other rooms in most other Euro-
pean bungalows in our town ; the
chairs and the tables and the
lounges and the mats were all
seagrass and rattan £nd brass
and the ornaments were ivory ■
and ebony and pearl-shell.
There were books and a few
pictures and cushions and some
bowls with cannas in them. But
even with all the ladies sitting
round, the room looked as
though nobody lived there. Well,
for all this was helping me to
find out about the Resident’s
life at home, I might as well be
sitting in his office at the court-
house as I often did when I
waited for Uncle. It was dis-
appointing.
Then the tea came in.
Chee Lim, the cook who used
to go down every day to the
market in Chinatown to choose
the meat and vegetables, came in
now with a short white coat on,
just like a ship’s steward. He
wheeled the tray to the large
table near the window and
poured tea and handed it round.
The Resident didn’t ask any lady
to pour. He passed cakes and
there were sandwiches, too; it
was just like afternoon-tea on a
ship. Not like a home at all.
Not like tea at home where
Aunt poured and the ladies sat
and talked about recipes and
then Aunt would take them out
to *he sewing-room and they’d
come back and have more tea
and they’d pass magazines and
pattern-books ; and Aunt would
bring out her newest hat and
they’d all try it on and there'd
be laughter and giggles and
they’d have more tea. And
perhaps some of their husbands
would call for them and Aunt
would bring out the sherry and
then Uncle would come in and
he’d say, “That stuff! That’s a
woman’s drink. Have a whisky.”
And they’d all have a whisky
and the men would try Aunt’s
hat on and there’d be shouts
of laughter instead of giggles.
I’d have my dinner in the
yellow-scrubbed kitchen, at the
bare, clean table under the open
shutters that looked out into
the yard where the banana-palms
with leaves like long sails made
shadows on the shell-grit path.
And I’d go off to my room to
do lessons, and the half-caste
cook-girl would put all the dinner
away and then Friday the
Eighth and the girls would help
her wash the dishes. Then
they’d take their food in a big
bowl and a billy out to the
garden under the pandanus and
bananas; and the girl would
dose up the kitchen and go
off to the mission at the convent
where she lived.
Perhaps I’d wake up in the
night and hear the grown-ups on-
the side veranda where we dined.
They’d still be drinking whisky
and eating, too ; tinned things
—chicken in aspic, asparagus,
anchovies with their tails in their
mouths ; gorgonzola cheese and
dry biscuits. Someone would
go out into the garden and pick
a cucumber. Perhaps a car would
go off to the iceworks and bring
back a big white lettuce and
some tomatoes from a housebox
there. And there’d be plenty of
things to drink.
Uncle had a key to a cupboard
in the office that was his dressing-
room. In it he kept all his special
drinks. There was a lovely pale
mauve syrup called P arfait
Amour. He’d bring this out on
special ‘‘tea-party nights” as 1
grew to call them and there d
be lots of laughter and jokes and
everyone would have a sip. Then
they’d go for a swim if it was a
good tide and a bright moon
and finish the party in bathers
and gowns.
At breakfast next morning the
house would be neat and tidy
again; even the cigarette-butts
swept up from among the vincas
at the edge of the veranda and
the shell paths raked. Uncle
would be feeling pleased after
such a bright party, and Aunt
would be all powdered and
sweet-smelling in her silk
kimono. In the afternoon Uncle
would come home unexpectedly
to have a siesta and he’d get
up feeling fine, and they’d have
some tennis and perhaps that
night they’d go for a game of
cards and come home early and
Uncle would hug Aunt as they
got out of the car and she’d
say, “This is a lovely life,
Harold,” and he’d whistle as
they came along the veranda.
And I’d -wonder what the
place would be like without a
woman and reflect that it all
started with my Aunt’s tea-party.
NOW at the Residency Chee
Lim asked, “Missee like?”
and I took a piece to please him,
as he’d made the cake himself,
I thought.
The ladies were all talking
pretty-pretty. I could feel how
embarrassed we all were. It was
the queerest sensation —as though
we were all thinking the same
thing, whatever it might be. 1
hoped they weren’t thinking
what I was: wondering what
made this house a home for the
man who spent all his life here ;
the most important man in the
town.
He was smiling to himself.
Presently he said, “Perhaps
you would like to see the
garden? It’s at its best just now.”
The ladies twittered and they
all moved out around the ver-
anda to the garden overlooking
the Roads.
The Resident said to Nipper
as he passed, “You boy go long
kitchen one time help Chee
Lim.”
I sometimes wondered if the
natives understood that kind of
talking any better than they
would understand us if we spoke
to them properly ; but everyone
spoke pidgin to them, even the
Resident.
The punkah gave a last flutter
and the black man sidled out,
grinning, I knew, at the thought
of the bits-and-pieces he’d get to
eat when he helped with the dish-
washing.
I was tagging along with the
women, but nobody noticed me,
so I turned and went back to the
room we had come from.
I was alone. I stood there
quietly, wondering, listening.
The room deserted, smelling of
cakes and tea and cigarettes and
flowers and that subtle rank
smell that is the tropics, had no
soul. I touched a book, 1 read
a title —something I don’t remem-
ber. I felt the texture of a
cushion. Then I sat in a big
chair in the corner and listened.
I knew if the house had a home-
spirit, I would find it now. So
I waited.
The door from the veranda
opened and from the light into
the darkness, assured and poised,
smiling softly to herself, Myee
Carter came, carrying what I
saw was a pile .of folded shirts
and striped pyjamas.
She paused a moment, scent-
ing the air, chuckled softly to
herself; amused almost, it
seemed, at the thought of the
afternoon’s entertainment. Then
she passed through the room,
setting a cushion straight with
one deft hand —as my 'aunt
might have done in her own
sitting-room. I heard the door
of the Resident’s sleeping-
veranda open.
The women were twittering
away in the garden at the foot
of the slope. There seemed only
Myee Carter and myself in the
house. Then I heard her speak-
ing to Chee Lim in the soft low
voice that belongs to the black
woman: but hers was not the
voice of the black woman
married to the white-trash beach-
comber: hers was the voice of
authority in the home of the
most important man in the town.
I sat in my corner until I
heard the ladies coming back.
Then I went out to the veranda.
1-fold Aunt I was not feeling well
and she let me go home alone.
THAT night at dinner Aunt
said to Uncle, “I must say
that Myee Carter certainly keeps
that place nice; and she’d
arranged a lovely tea.”
' I wanted to hear what Uncle
thought about it all, but what he
said was, “Shush now, my dear ;
not in front of Margaret,
please! ”


FELT & TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
MR R. J. WEBSTER
STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN
RELATING TO THE ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1956
REVIEW OF DEVELOP-
MENTS
Your Board considered some four
years ago that if your Company was
to remain in the forefront of Austra-
lian industry and meet the challenge,
of the future, some definite changes in
organisation were required. It was
evident at the time that industry
was on the threshold of important
technological developments and that
management would need to look
well into the future in order, not
only to take advantage of these'de-
velopments, but also to avoid stag-
nation.
The first essential was to create a
structure of organisation capable of
meeting this situation and suffi-
ciently flexible to be able to cope
with changing conditions. Further-
more, It was necessary to incor-
porate in the organisation features
which had until then tended to be
under-emphasised—Personnel Man-
agement, Engineering Research and
Methods , work. The problem was
approached energetically, and the
organisation structure has now been
developed to its present stage and
referred to in greater detail under
the heading “Organisation.” No
structure of organisation can ever be
static—it must move with the times
—and further changes will be re-
quired in the future to meet con-
ditions as they develop.
The Company embarked also upon
a scheme of financial reorganisation,
to which reference has been made
in previous statements, involving the
merging of wholly owned sub-
sidiaries in the parent Company
with the object of streamlining and
simplifying the financial and ad-
ministrative structure of the Com-
pany. Although there are some
matters of detail still to be attended
to in connection with the reorgani-
sation, the amalgamation, for all
practical purposes, is now effective.
In order to ensure the continued
security and advancement of the
Company particular importance i&
being given to forward planning.
Future management must be trained,
the latest management techniques
employed, research encouraged into
new markets, new products and
new methods. All these require-
ments have been given progressively
more attention over the past four
years, particularly during the past
two, and greater concentration on
these aspects is planned in the
immediate future. The appropriate
organisation has been set up to give
attention to the problems and pro-
jects of the future and to establish
clear and attainable objectives for
the Company and its Management.
The past‘four years have also seen
the introduction of new and im-
proved products and a general in-
crease in the volume of production
as a result of the installation of
new plant, the regrouping of some
of the Company’s manufacturing
activities, and the development of
new markets.
While the developments initiated
during these years have been of
some magnitude their effect lias not
necessarily been reflected in the re-
sults for the year under review,
some of them being long range
projects designed to both protect and
expand the Company’s interests in
the future.
References to these matters will be
found throughout this statement.
FINANCIAL
u.
The Consolidated Net Profit for
■ the year, after providing for taxa-
tion, and • after excluding the
interests of minority shareholders,
was £574,546, a -reduction of 7% oh
the Consolidated Net Profit of
£617,532 for the year ended 30th
June, 1955.
Insofar as its operations in Aus-
tralia were concerned, the profits
earned, before tax, exceeded those of
the previous year, but this increase
was more than offset by an increase
in Australian tax and a decrease in
the profits of the New Zealand Sub-
sidiary Company—Felt & Textiles of
New Zealand Ltd. The provision
for .taxation this year was once
again reduced by the offset for tax
purposes of losses incurred in 1951-
52. The benefit received in this
regard was £73,000 approximately,
and the past losses have now been
completely offset for taxation pur-
poses.
The results for the year ended 30th
June, 1956, were affected by outside
influences over which the Company
had no control. The imposition by
the Australian Government of more
severe import restrictions, on balance,
must eventually benefit the Austra-
lian organisation, but as yet it has
not affected it to any appreciable
degree. On the other hand, credit
restrictions, coupled with heavy im-
portations, have -tended to reduce
local sales. The effect of inflationary
trends during the year has been to
increase costs, whereas competitive
conditions have compelled selling
prices to remain virtually unaltered.
Increased efficiency is the answer to
this situation, and the Companv has
met with some success in that direc-
tion and is continuing its efforts.
Despite strong competition from
both local and overseas sources,
’aggregate sales in the floor-covering
fields were maintained at a satisfac-
INTRODUCTORY
Before reviewing the results for the year ended the 30th June, 1956,
it is of interest to consider a number of significant developments’
which have been made in the organisation of Felt & Textiles of
Australia Ltd. over the past four years.
tory level, but profits were reduced
as a result of cost increases. Keenly
competitive conditions obtained in
1 woollen and worsted weaving
and clothing trades throughout the
The Footwear Division
achieved a satisfactory profit, mainly
as a result of the increased effi-
ciency of the units in Victoria, as its
profits were reduced by difficulties
experienced. in New South Wales.
After taking into consideration the
ettects of the increased rates of Aus-
tralian taxation and the conditions
ruling generally with the Company’s
activities, the net profit of £574,546
tor the year is considered by your
Directors to be satisfactory.
Stocks
nJ L '£fe< C i!S soll< !> ate<i Stocks increased
, by £464,601 or 6.4% over those of the
year. The increase was
attributable to the Australian
activities, the New Zealand Sub-
sidiary recording during the year
a reduction commensurate with its
turnover.
Wool stocks in Australia were
higher as a direct reflection of the
excellent trading experienced. Pro-
duction in the Wool Division was
maintained at high levels right
laws to the o P e ning of the
lbob-57 season and is still being
maintained. This necessitated the
carrying of increased stocks at 30th
June, 1956, but the greater part of
those stocks had been sold against
firm contracts, whilst the balance
was either held to cover our own
manufacturing programmes or has
since been sold.
The increase in stocks of other raw
materials arose to some extent
through the necessity of increasing
stocks, of essential imported raw
materials against the eventuality of
hazards *niport cuts and shipping
The rate of stock turnover for the
current year was 3.7 times per
annum, as compared with 4 times
for 1954-55. This rate was satis-
factory as it was affected by the
wool units’ need to carry heavier
stocks to cover forward orders.
Finance
. Land and buildings and new plant
by £439,509. Of this figure
applicable to Australia
and £129,241 to New Zealand
..Investments increased by £187,463,
the greater part of which represented
capital contributions to the develop-
ment of the tufted carpet Company
referred to later. Debtors increased
by £343,489, due principally to higher
sales for the last two months of the
financial year as compared with the
corresponding period last year.
Stocks, as already explained, in-
creased by £464,601.
The effect of the foregoing was
reflected generally in increases in
Australiap Creditors and Overdrafts,
the movement in the corresponding
items being comparatively insignifi-
Zealand. A reduction
in both Creditors and Overdrafts was
recorded after 30th June, but if the
Company is to fulfil the programme
which it has set itself, and to which
reference is made throughout this
statement, it is evident that its
finances will be fully employed for
some time to come.
Superannuation and Long
Service Leave
The revision of the Company’s
existing Superannuation Scheme, to
which reference was made in last
years Statement, and provision for
Long Service Leave Liability are
still under investigation. No pro-
vision has yet been made for Long
Service Leave Liability in the Com-
pany’s accounts, but all costs in-
curred to the 30th June, 1956, have
been written off.
Export Sales
Great publicity has been given
over the last year to the necessity
for increasing Australia’s exports.
ex P° rts exceeded
£3,000,000 in the year under review
—approximately 10% of its turn-
over, and by far the highest in its
history.
Representatives of the Company
have paid further visits to overseas
markets during the past twelve
months and, while the greater part
of the exports to date has consisted
of processed wools and wool tops,
overseas markets for other of the
Company’s products are being de-
veloped.
Gn present export sales
should be still higher in the current
year.
ORGANISATION \
Pursuant *"be policy already out-
lined, some important developments
in the structure of organisation
became effective towards the end of
the financial year.
With the objects of appraising and
co-ordinating the Company’s sales
and marketing organisation and
concentrating further upon the for-
ward planning of its activities, a
new Research and Development
Division was created. In particular,
this Division will determine the
customer’s present and future re-
quirements, the quantities he will
require and the price he will be pre-
pared to pay, the materials which
should be used and the best method
of using them, and how and where
the products should be marketed.
Mr. L. B. Jacobs, who was formerly
General Manager of the Pelt and
Carpets Division, and who has had
long and wide experience of the
Company’s activities, was appointed
General Manager of the new
Division.
A new position was created during
the year, namely that of Assistant
General Manager of the Company,
to take charge of and be responsible
for the appraisal, co-ordination and
forward planning with respect to
all aspects of production, personnel,
engineering, and methods engineer-
ing activities. Mr. H. P. Weber,
M.Sc., formerly General Manager
Production Division, Monsanto
Chemicals (Australia) Ltd., was
appointed to All this position.
A Planning Committee has been
set up, consisting of the Managing
Director, Assistant General Manager,
General Manager, Research and De-
velopment Division, and General
Manager, Finance Division, together
with Divisional Heads as required.
The function of this Committee will
be the formulation and consolidation
of the forward plans of the organi-
sation.
The Division formerly known as
the Pelt Carpets division com-
prised, as it was then constituted,
the Woollen Pelt, Hair Pelt, Carpets,
Waste and Wadding, and Plastics
units, with manufacturing opera-
tions in all States except Queens-
' ,i? n y iew of the geographical
difficulties involved in its manage-
ment and the considerable expansion
which had occurred -in the Division
since it was first rso constituted, it
was decided to divide it into smaller
components and to regroup the units
concerned. Accordingly, a Pelt
Division and a Plastics Division
were formed, the New South Wales
activities were made part of a
newly created New South Wales
Division, referred to later, whilst
the woven carpet Companies were
regrouped as a Divisional unit under
the one manager.
Felt Division comprises
the following units:—
Woollen and Hair Felts-
Federal Pelters.
Flocks & Waddings and process-
ing of Textile Wastes—
Associated Flock Mills
David Galt
Pelt Products of South Australia
Pelt Products of Tasmania
Pelt Products of Western Aus-
tralia
Fremantle Bag Co. Pty. Ltd.
Spreads, Underlays, etc.—
H. A. King & Co.
fj. Kiuf?, formerly Manager
of the unit H. A. King & Company,
was appointed Divisional Manager
of the Pelt Division.
The Plastics Division, which
prises two large manufacturing units
at Murrumbeena and Sale, Victoria,
respectively, was placed under the
General Management of Mr. E.
Davies, who was formerly Unit
Manager of J. J. Davies & Sons.
The partly owned Carpet Sub-
sidiaries, British Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. and
Preston Wools (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
(Spinning), were grouped together
under the one Manager, Mr. A. P.
Wyer, who previously was Manager
of the former Company, and they
now constitute a separate Division.
Mainly on account of the geo-
graphical difficulties referred to
earlier and the need for closer super-
vision, a New South Wales Division
was created, consisting *of the
Woollen Pelt, Hair Pelt and Foot-
wear units in that State. This was
placed under the General Manage-
ment of Mr. L. A. Lochrin, Resident
Director in New South Wales.
It is considered that the amended
scheme, in addition to providing the
machinery necessary for forward
planning, will facilitate the day to
day business operations of the
organisation.
ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICES
The important functions of Per-
sonnel, Training and Engineering
now fall under this heading and
become the direct responsibility of
the Assistant General Manager.
These are all services rendered to
operative management by officers
specialising in these spheres and able
to bring trained minds and methods
to bear on problems in their specific
fields.
The matter of employees’ safety
has been given special attention
during the year, and progress is
reflected in the fact that the number
of accidents dropped by 10%, with a
decrease of 32% in compensation
claims. Staff training has continued
throughout the year with special
emphasis on Work Simplification
ana Methods Engineering, the appli-
cation of which will be intensified
in the coming year.
Detailed Methods Engineering
studies are now in progress in the
major units, and an overall plan to
cover the complete organisation is
being vigorously implemented.
Already substantial benefits are
apparent from this work, the effect
of which will be increasingly bene-
ficial as time goes*on.
WOOL
Tlie Wool Division, which com-
prises the wool buying: and pro-
cessing units; experienced a success-
ful year, with major units working
three shifts a day—a reflection of
the confident world wool market,
lhis satisfactory level of production
is still continuing, and it should be
emphasised that this type of expan-
sion does not involve the Company
in correspondingly increased stock
risks. The Company plans its
wool buying operations so as to
ensure that its unsold wool stocks
at any time do not exceed levels
which, if necessary, could be readily
absorbed in the Company’s own
manufacturing activities.
As mentioned above, this Division
was chiefly responsible for the
marked increase in export sales, and
has established for itself a high
reputation for quality in world
markets.
Our wool processing plants in
treate( i approximately
36,750,000 lbs. of greasy wool during
the year, an increase of over 29%
on the previous year. This total
represented 16% of all wool pro-
cessed in Australia. These im-
pressive figures will serve to demon-
strate the important role played by
your Company in the Australian
Wool Industry.
FLOOR-COVERINGS
During the past year competition
has been intensified in the floor-
covering field, mainly through a
fl °od of importations of all qualities,
and the position was further aggra-
vated by credit restrictions.
Overall sales of woven carpets were
maintained at the same level as last
year, but to achieve this, it was
necessary, to introduce new lines
which did not carry the same margin
of profit. While sales of “Eeltex”
floor-coverings showed a slight de-
crease for the year, sales of under-
felts increased.
‘ “Eeltex” continues to hold an
important place in the floor-covering
field, and no effort is spared to
maintain and improve its unique
qualities. A vigorous advertising
campaign is being maintained, and
tins will be assisted by a newlv
opened “Feltex Colour Bureau” in
Melbourne, similar to the one opened
in Sydney last year.
Despite the competitive conditions
referred to, the Wilton and Ax-
minster carpets produced by the Sub-
sidiary British Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. —are
well established in the Australian
market by reason of the quality and
customer service which are given
with this production.
The needled felt plants established
at Thebarton, South Australia, and
at Perth, Western Australia,
operated on a profitable basis
during the year, and the recently
installed plant at Launceston, Tas-
mania, has now commenced produc-
tion for the local trade.
Y °hi* Company produced 57% of
tne total soft floor-coverings manu-
factured in Australia during the
year, as compared with 61% in the
preceding year. On the other hand,
productions accounted for 27%
of the total floor-coverings available
from both local and imported
sources during the year as compared
with 25% in the preceding year.
WOOLLEN FELT
Sales of the many types of
woollen felt for use by the engineer-
ing, motor car and footwear in-
dustries were well'maintained. An
application for increased tariff pro- -
teetion on felt bobs and polishing
wheels was made to the Tariff Board
during the latter part “of the year,
but the result of the hearing has not
yet been announced. This par-
ticular type of felt production is
one that has been highly developed
by your Company, and its felt bobs
compare favourably in quality with
any others produced in the world
today.
PLASTICS
The installation at Sale, Victoria,
of the new Plastics Plant, to which
reference has been made in previous
statements, was completed during th©
latter half of the year and* some ex-
perimental runs were made before
30th June. The plant is now work-
ing two shifts a day producing
plastic film for which there is a
considerable demand in Australia.
This industry will be further de-
veloped during the current year and
should prove a profitable extension
of the Company’s activities.
The unit, J. J. Davies & Sons,
which operates this plant, has been
engaged for some years now at
Murrumbeena, Victoria, in the pro-
duction of “Daynide,” a plastic
coated material. A strong demand
continues for this material. In addi-
tion the unit has now embarked upon
the prefabrication of plastic coated
panels for the motor car industry.
Negotiations have recently been
completed with Storey Bros. & Co.
Ltd., of Lancaster, one of the lead-
ing manufacturers in England of
printed and embossed plastic film,
to form a joint Company in Aus-
tralia in which your Company will
hold a 60% interest and Storey Bros.
40%. The new Company will install
at our Sale factory a modern print-
ing plant to handle plastic film pro-
duced by us at Sale. The collabora-
tion with Storey Bros, should bring
to our industry in Australia a wealth
of technical knowledge and experi-
ence, and the joint enterprise will
open up a promising field.
Operations of the unit, The Regal
Braiding Company, which produced
laces, braids and plastic covered
wire products, have been terminated
and its plastic extrusion plant
absorbed by the Plastics Division.
FOOTWEAR
The Footwear units in Australia
achieved an increase of 12% in the
value of their aggregate sales for the
year and produced 5,168,000 pairs—
nearly 20% of Australia’s total pro-
duction. Included in this figure
were 3,561,000 pairs of slippers, rep-
resenting 45.2% of Australia’s total
production. This compared with
42.8% and 44.2% in the years 1954-55
and 1953-54 respectively.
The Company’s footwear interests
have more than maintained their
position in the industry, but pro-
duction has still to be built up to
higher levels in the New South
Wales units. Progress has been
achieved by the introduction of new
and improved types of footwear and
increased manufacturing efficiency,
and plans have been made to in-
crease production further in the
current year. I ‘
New and improved arrangements
have been completed with prominent
overseas manufacturers whereby your
Company will receive advice on new
types, designs and techniques.
Selling and distribution arrange-
ments in respect of the major lines
have been co-ordinated and made
more effective.
The building extensions to the
Croydon, Victoria, unit have now been
completed and full scale production
of vulcanised rubber soled slippers
is proceeding.
TEXTILES
During the year under review pro-
duction and sales of worsted yarn
'and woollen and worsted piecegoods
remained virtually at the same level
as in the previous year. Competi-
tion remained strong and prices were
depressed correspondingly. How-
ever the worsted spinning and
woollen weaving sections are now
working to .capacity, with sufficient
orders on hand to maintain a satis-
factory level of production for some
months to come.
The transfer of the finishing plant
from Tottenham to Bentleigh was
completed during the latter half of
the year, and the benefit of this
transfer will be felt during the
current year. In addition, modern
high speed spinning plant is now in
course of installation which, coupled
with the transfer of the finishing
plant and the concentration upon
improved methods and efficiency,
will ultimately react to the substan-
tial benefit of these units.
CLOTHING
The men’s and boys’ clothing units
again experienced keen competition
and their results were unsatis-
factory. Steps are being taken to
place these units on a more satis-
factory basis, and plans are being
formulated to manufacture imported
types of clothing which should find
a better market. In the current
year, however, very little contribu-
tion can be expected from these
units, and it may take until 1957-58
to develop satisfactory plans for
their future activities.
The other unit in the Clothing
Division, A. Warhaft, which manu-
factures embroidered materials,
woven labels, quilting and quilted
products, experienced a successful
year and contributed an appreciable
profit. Present indications are that
this performance should be repeated
in the current year.
Your Board has approved substan-
tial long range additions to this
unit’s plant which should come into
operation in 1958.
NEW ZEALAND '
As a result of heavy imports into
the Country on the one hand and
credit and hire-purchase restric-
tions on the other, the New Zealand
Subsidiary—Felt & Textiles of New
Zealand Ltd.—experienced its most
difficult year for four years. Net
profits of £NZ86,532 showed a decline
of 17% on the previous year, but
still adequately covered the custom-
ary 8% dividend on ordinary shares,
which rate has been maintained con-
sistently now for some years.
SOUTH AFRICA
Felt & Textiles of South Africa
Ltd. again experienced a successful
year.
The close liaison between the
South African. New Zealand and
Australian Companies has been
further developed during the year
with the interchange of visits by
technical and executive personnel to
mutual advantage.
During the year the Board learnt
with regret of the death of Hr.
Ernest Green who had been a
member of the South African Board
for some years. At our request tlie
-South African Board appointed our
Managing Director, Mr. H. o-
Rowden, a Director of the Smith
African Company. Your Board feei«
that it is in the best interests of
(Continued cm next page)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— ln.Divorce.
TO PERCIYAL THOMAS PRIDAY, late
of Woodpark Jerilderie. —TAKE NOTICE
that LYNDA ROSE PRIDAY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 925 of 1950
on the ground of desertion, without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 24th January 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from KEITH YOUMAN, Solicitor, 29
Bligli Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN,
5 Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE BARTON PATERSON of
West Wyalong New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE' that GLEN OLGA PATERSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4150
of 1954 on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and habitual failure to sup-
port during a period of three years If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Btli day of January 1957 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from BERNE MURRAY & TOUT, Soli-
citors, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney. J.
POUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE EDWARD COOK late
of Murwillumbah. —TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE MAY COOK has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2723 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
ogth day of January' 1957 and obtain a
copy of'the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS &-CO., Soli-
citors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW sdUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Can you tell a ‘big’
Scotch from a
‘small’ Scotch?
# '*&rey*
fi
BEIXS
Scotch Ifjj
100% SCOTCH WHISK'Jj
DUTIUIO AND BUNO^
*, IN SCOTLAND
D *STtLLERS n»™ &?, 1
ESTABLISHED
PRODUCT Of
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary nm of whiskies —and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
'you will acknowledge *its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
A rthwr Bell <L'Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Berth, Scotland. Established 1H25
your Company to develop and
strengthen our association with the
South African Company.
TUFTED CARPETS
It was announced in last year's
statement that Bradford Cotton Mills
Ltd. and your Company had de-
cided to form Jointly a Company
named “Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.” for the pur-
pose of manufacturing tufted carpets
in Australia.
A very fine plant has been in-
stalled in the Company’s premises
at Botany Road, Sydney, and first
production runs are now being
made and the new product, will
shortly be marketed. As previously
reported, this enterprise, has been
developed with the technical assist-
ance of Cabin Crafts Inc,, a leading
manufacturer in the United. States,
and similar but smaller units have
been established by the New Zealand
and South African Companies.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
In pursuance of the policy of keep-
ing the Company's various plants up
to date, and in line with the latest
developments, your Board has
approved at the present time Capital
Expenditure of £300.000 approxi
mately to be expended In Australia
in 1956-57 and the following year.
It is probable that additional ex-
penditure will require approval this
year, but known and anticipated
commitments should be within the
financial capacity of the Company.
SUMMARY
At any time, but particularly at
present, the necessity for looking
and planning forward cannot be
over-emphasised. It may well be
said that this requirement was
never so urgent as it is today, and
this applies to all industry in Aus-
tralia. It has been stated publicly
on many occasions that to maintain
the existing standard of living and
to compete with other countries, Aus
tralian industry must strive for
greater productivity. This can only
be attained by improved and more
enlightened management, employing
the best techniques and the most up
to date plant. There are no alterna-
tives.
Your Board is fully cognisant, of
these objectives and is employing
every' means of attaining them. It
would be misleading to suppose that
the recognition of these objectives
and the striving for their attain
ment. are likely to result in a spec-
tacular rise in profits—rather they
should be reflected in' the steady
growth and development of your
Company over a number of years.
As to the prospects for the current
year, all factors point, so far, to a
reasonable result, provided there are
no radical changes in Government
policy which adversely affect your
Company.
R. J. WEBSTER,
Chairman.
BETWEEN-HUTS STREET
By MILAN V. DEROC
THE loudspeaker blared on
and on: “Unemployed
men to report immediately
to the employment-
officer!”
It was late in the evening, and
the migrants retired already to
their huts. But the announce-
ment brought the camp back to
life, and the lethargy of a hot
summer night was succeeded by
a vigorous buzzing: “What for?
At this hour!” There appeared
to be only one plausible answer:
“After doing nothing all day,
those in. the employment-office
have found an excuse to work
overtime.”
The men rushing to answer the
call,‘the womenfolk were left
behind to struggle with awakened
children. It delayed their joining
in the spirited gossip. A sharp
command to the elder children
to stay quiet in bed and, grasp-
ing squalling babies in their arms,
the mothers ran out into
Between-Huts-street to enlivea
the democratic assembly.
The migrants, married and
single, gathered in front of the
brightly-lit employment-office,
and tried by peering through
open windows to find out wha£t it
was all about. But the disorderly
files on the tables wouldn’t talk,
and the clerks spoke only
English. The crowd moved
about restlessly, forwards, back-
wards ; although it seemed that
there jvas only a confusion, of
men shifting around ‘tl\e place,
a discerning eye would have
soon distinguished a peering
queue passing continuously in
front of the windows.
At last an official
appeared at the door: Any
volunteers for railways . . .?”
The end of his inquiry was
drowned by a crescendo of
voices. Everyone was heatedly
talking. Only when the babble
died down did the migrants make
out from the few who had taken
the trouble to listen: the
employment - officer needed
volunteers for railway - con-
ductors’ vacancies.
FOR ohce the crowd was
happy. The roll of volun-
teers had to be made on the
spot, and in the morning they
were to report for medical
examination and other form-
alities. Back in their quarters,
there was rejoicing. Imagine: a
decent job, good pay, and
security! ■ Over and above all
this, a chance to get away from
the camp . . . The only ones
still unhappy were those who
had been earlier chosen for pick-
and-shovel work.
In the morning myopic
candidates were at war with the
doctors. A doctor would point
to a letter or line on the board,
and roar: “Read! ”
The shortsighted patient
would produce an enigmatic
smile, and whisper back: “I
cannot understand it!”
The examiner, expert with
malingerers, but not with the
zealous: “You mean, you don’t
see it?”
“No, no, I see it very well.
But those letters are jn the Latin
alphabet, and I read only the
Greek ones . .
These and other examinations
lasted many days. Then the
accepted candidates were told to
await the final decision from
Canberra, though this would be
only a formality. And those
physically unsuitable for such a
strenuous job as a conductor’s
were thrown back into the
anonymous pool of pick-and-
shovel types.
They tried to argue: “What
has the blowing of a whistle got
to do with my weight?” “Why
was I rejected, and So-and-so
not?”
The selected conductors
restricted their sympathy to
superior smiles, ' and those
assigned as laborers welcomed
every new reinforcement as an
additional consolation.
Outwardly the camp resumed
the dull routine of ordinary days.
YET underneath was steadily
boiling a revolution of those
conscious of social values.
The women.
The wives of pick-and-shovel
men sought out those wh’o had
risen in life as spouses of the
conductors. Having reappraised
the situation, the camp women-
folk split into three groups.
Families of those rejected as
conductors and left to rub along
on unemployment-benefits were
relegated to the lowest class:
the submerged tenth. The next,
higher grade, was formed from
those already on pick-and-shovel
wages. And at the top, the elite,
the prospective conductors.
Everyone’s fate was sealed.
One could read it in the bearing
of the women.
Mmes. Tschwrczhynskowincz
(“Call me Katty”) and Anita
Shusniar had not been on speak-
ing-terms for the past three
weeks, as Mrs. T. had told all
the neighbors that Anita’s
children disturbed her afternoon
nap. But, Mr. Shusniar having
been accepted as a conductor,
<>Katty went to see Mrs. Shusniar
and told her how shocked she
was at the lies the neighborhood
had been spreading.
She had never said anything
against the Shusniar children,
and the whole incident had
undoubtedly been fabricated by
that Chris Petronievich, whose
husband was no good and
couldn’t get any sort of job. As
to what she did say, she only
remarked to “that” Chris that
Anita’s children were always so
playful: “And to see, now, that
one cannot express even a good
opinion . . .!”
Later, in the communal
laundry, the two women
reassessed their relations with
Chris Petronievich and other
.“good - for - nothing’ families,
their tempers exacerbated in
time to the swift movements of
their hands, expertly wringing
underwear. :
“She doesn’t believe I know
her true character!” Katty
proceeded. ?
“Don’t you think / don t
know her!” Mrs. Shusniar
added, arms akimbo. “I wasn’t
willing to gossip, but I think it
honest to tell you she says your
husband never was a postmaster
at home, but only a messenger.
Of course, 1 don’t believe a word
-she says; and I tell everybody
so, before she’s got time to go
around with her lie.”
A sharply-rising need for
revenge formed in Katty’s breast
a ball of fire. The smearing was
based on fact.
Each leaning the overfull
bucket against one hip, they
started home. Passing Mrs.
Petronievich, who happened to
be at her door summoning her
children for lunch, they were
careful not to see her. She,
bewildered at seeing the two
together, knew immediately at
whose expense they had become
reconciled. Looking after them,
she wondered how they
smoothed over the things they
had 'been telling, each of the
other, even to strangers.
Her children were at table,
waiting for the last wiener-
schnitzel to be ready, when Mrs.
Tschwrczhynskowincz asked
haughtily, through the window,
for the immediate return of he’r
frying-pan. Chris was not
allowed time to wash it.
The last schnitzel stayed raw,
while Katty ran straight to
Anita, waiting at her door, to
show her in what a dirty state
the pan had been given back.
AFTER a week of this cold
warfare, in which almost all
the women were involved, came
the big day,
The loudspeaker tore the air
again after hours. All men
successful in the railways-
examination were to report at
once.
Only the two upper-classes
mixing socially, the womenfolk
came down into the Between-
Huts-street to await return of the
men. The outcasts considered it
better to stay at home, and
peeped from behind curtains.
And their children, conscious of
the climax-and eager to be in the
crowd, but forcibly kept inside,
could be heard but not seen.
The socialites in the street
delayed any approach to their
real problems to triumph over
‘their inferiors.
“Aha! ” said Anita Shusniar.
“They will see now whose
children disturb other people’s
sleep!”
The chorus of other women
contributed each her own solo ;
there were exposed many
horrible things. The time had
come to enumerate publicly all
open secrets; who was taking
a bath only once fortnightly, and
whose husband’s toes were
always out of his socks.
The thirst for dotting social
“i’s” once satisfied, the elite
couldn’t help but express relief
at thoughts of leaving the
unbearable camp and its damned
life that had no privacy. But —
and eyebrows drew together —
where were they going to now?
Would any of their acquaint-
ances be there? How would
they furnish their houses, when
bought? And what facilities
would be there for fhe education
of children?
The atmosphere had been
purged to a new dignity, the
women were more like their true
selves than for many, many
years of demoralising camp-life,
and almost at the point of for-
getting social distinctions, when
the men returned unexpectedly.
Something had gone wrong.
Was there to be a new medical
examination? Or had only a
limited number been approved
by Canberra? Or, maybe, the
start of the job postponed?
It was worse: the conductors’
jobs had been cancelled!
THE outcasts appeared openly
at their windows and came
out of their doors. The merciless
wheel of society' began
immediately to turn.
Mrs. Tsch wrczhyn sko wincz
turned her back on Anita
Shusniar (“She manufactured
her name to sound like an Aus-
tralian one”), and, taking from
the window-ledge a can of milk,
went to offer it to Mrs. Chris
Petronievich.
“Hallo, Chris, it just happened
we’ve got tonight a surplus of
milk, and I think I’d better bring
it to you. It’s true that Anita is
my nextdoor-neighbor, but I
wouldn’t dream of taking it to
her. You know how she is;
such a gossiper! Even about
you! Of course, I don’t believe
her, and I . . . You . . . But . . .
I . . .”
Between Huts - street buzzed
again with the reformation of
society.


What other tyres do-
fiOIIYEAI USELESS
do better
mm
gUOrtOUT
SAf&V
' H&'is * *
*iv
<9
o£t
Wm
Mo &Af/l£s
better
PUNCTURE
PROTECTION
(SL
mm&z
0?
& H 0 cJhStScTWH
TO ; «*• «• *•* *****
goodAear
TUBELESS
"THM
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
* 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of “Magazine Digest”
for August, 1938.—6424.
To buy copy of The Golden
Warrior, by Helen Waddell. —6425.
Information Supplied
On the drover’s bell made from an
old saw-blade (from Mrs. L. Wiblen,
Chatsworth Island, Clarence River,
N.S.W.): We have one here. Actually,
it’s a bullock-bell, and, although a
little rusted on one side, it still
rings merrily as our little boy swings
it about the place.
Information Sought
Some details about an Australian
poet named Robert Crawford?
Crawford was born at Doonside
(N.S.W.) in 1868, and was educated
at The King’s School, Parramatta,
and the University of Sydney. He
settled on a farm, as his forefathers
had done, but, not succeeding, he
became a clerk in Sydney and after-
wards had a typewriting business.
Some of his poems were published in
The Bulletin, the “Bookfellow” and
other periodicals. In 1904 a small
collection of his verses, Lyric Moods,
was published in Sydney, An
enlarged edition was published in
Melbourne in 1909 under the same
title. In 1921 another volume, The
Leafy Bliss, was published, and an
enlarged edition appeared three years
later. Crawford died suddenly at
Lindlield (Sydney) on January 13,
1930. He is represented in some
of the anthologies, and A. G.
Stephens thought highly of his work.
References to his life and poetry will
be found in H. M. Green’s An Out-
line of Australian Literature, Percival
Serle’s Dictionary of Australian
Biography and F. T. Macartney’s
Australian Literature.
* * * *
Some books on the history of
Wales ?
Prehistoric and Roman Wales, by
R. E. M. Wheeler (1925); History of
Wales from the Earliest Times to the
Edwardian Conquest (1911) and A
History of Wales (1930), by J. E.
Lloyd; The Welsh People, by Sir
J. Rhys and D. Brynmor-Jones
(1927); History of Wales (1937) a n d
History of Modern Wales (1950), by
D. Williams; Tudor Policy in Wales
(1935) and Studies in Welsh History
(1947), by Sir James Frederick Rees;
Celtic Bards, Chiefs and Kings, by
G. Jf. Barrow (1928); Owen Glyndwr,
by A. G. Bradley (1901); Welsh Life
in the 18th Century, by Sir L. T.
Davies and A. Edwards (1939); Welsh
and Scottish Nationalism, by Sir
Reginald Coupland (.1954); The Story
of Wales, by Rhys Davies (1943);
Wales, by O. M. Edwards (1901);
Wales: Her Origins, Struggles and
Later History, by G. Stone (1915);
J" e Roman Frontier in Wales, by
Y; , E - Nash-Williams (1954); The
Making of Modem Wales, by W. L.
Williams (1919). A selection of these
histories and others is available at
public libraries in each capital city.
* * * *
(1) A. few details on the ' first
HM.A.S. Vampire? (2) How was
she sunk ?
(1) The Vampire was a V-class
destroyer; laid-down, 1916; launched,
May 21, 1917; completed, Sept. 22,
1917; commissioned R.A.N. at Ports-
mouth, Oct. 11, 1933. She packed
for armament four 4in. guns and six
21in. torpedo-tubes, had a standard
1090-tons displacement, an overall
length of 312 ft. lin. (beam, 29ft. 7in.),
and was capable of 32 knots. The
Vampire was one of a flotilla of live
destroyers (Stuart the leader
Vendetta, Voyager and Waterhen, the
others) originally loaned to the
R.A.N. by the Admiralty in 1933
and later donated as an outright gift.
She first entered Sydney Harbor on
Dec. 21, 1933, and paid-off into the
reserve-fleet on Jan. 1, 1934, recom-
missioning on July 14, 1936, as the
squadron-training destroyer based on
Westernport. (2) Following more
than two years* sterling service in
War 11, she was from March, 1942,
operating from Ceylon on escort,
carrier-screening and anti-submarine
duties. On April 8, with prior warn-
ing or an impending Japanese carrier-
based air-raid on Trincomalee, the
C-m-C. East Indies (Vice-Admiral
air Geoffrey Arbuthnot) decided to
clear the harb’or of shipping. That
night Vampire sailed escorting the
carrier Hermes southwards, with
orders to keep inshore'''and to be at
least 40 miles from Trincomalee by
dawn the following day. The raid
developed the next day as expected,
and at the time the Hermes and her
escort were some 65 miles from the
base and five miles off Ceylon’s east
coast. Altering course northward to
return to base, they were sighted by
a single Japanese plane returning
from reconnaissance of Colombo.
Later, attacked by some 50 Japanese
aircraft, both ships were sunk off
Batticaloa. The Hermes sank 20
minutes after sighting the approach-
ing enemy. Immediately she dis-
appeared, the Japanese formations
went .the Vampire full blast, sending
her under in 10 minutes, with the
ss , of her C.O. (Commander
W. J. A. Moran) and eight ratings.
* * * *
Some information on John
Kennedy Hume ?
Born in 1802 ; he was the son of
Andrew Hamilton Hume, who
arrived in Sydney in 1788 as one of
nine superintendents of the convicts;
another son, John Kennedy’s elder
brother, was the explorer Hamilton
Hume (1797-1873), of the famous
Hume and Hovell expedition. John
Kennedy went on some of his
brother's journeys; in 1814, as a boy
of 12, he and Hamilton Hume became
the first whites to cross the Razor-
back Range, and discovered and
explored the country around Berrima.
Hi 1821 the two brothers, with G.
Barber and W. H. Broughton,
explored and opened-up the Gunning
and Yass districts, and both received
• n fe£ ants there. Hamilton Hume
in 1826 received 2560 acres, and built
thereon Cooma Cottage, where he
hved till his death; J. K. Hume
established Wooloowardella, later
renamed Collingwood, one of the
earliest land-grants in the Gunning
district, authorised by Governor
Brisbane in 1824. In Jan., 1840, J. K.
Hume was brutally murdered by a
member of the gang of the bushranger
Whit ton, when helping to defend a
neighbor s property; all of the gang
died for their crime.
Brief Answers
G.P.H.: Selected Short St pries of
Nat nan Spieivogel, published by the
Australian Jewish Historical Society,
75 Westgarth-street, Nortncote, Mel-
bourne, N. 16 A.McF. : Writing
for Australia: A Nationalist Tradition
in Australian Literature't by Cyril
Brown; published by the Hawthorn
Press, 15 Gundrord-iane, Melbourne.
K.L.: Miss Doris Fitton will
present her “Professional Night Per-
torniance” of the play “Waters of
the Moon,” by N. C. Hunter, on
Sunday, November 25, 1956, at the
Independent Theatre, Miller-street,
North Sydney.,. .F.R.W.: An
Odious Comparison was published
by the author, Frederick T.
Macartney, 66 Stanley-street, Black
Rock (Vic.)... .V.R.: Green Crowns,
by Mary Quick, published by the
Juniper Press, Burradoo (N.S.W.).
• ~.T.M.: “Abou Ben Adhem” was
written by Leigh Hunt (1784-
1859)... .W.P.T.: Unable to
discover any information on the old
shot-tower at Ultimo (Sydney). The
Royal Australian Historical Society,
to which your question was also
referred, likewise was unable to help.
Suggest you write the Mitchell
Library (Sydney), which may have
some record of it....W.F.: Since
your son is expected to get his L C
without matriculation, he will not
be eligible for admission to University
degree-courses in Agricultural Science
and Veterinary Science at Sydney
University, or in Rural Science at the
New England University, However,
the University authorities may be
p-epared to accept him as an
unmatriculated student. He will be
eligible for admission to the diploma-
courses at Hawkesbury and Wagga
Agricultural Colleges (details con-
tained in brochures forwarded to
you)- As well, the Sydney Technical
College offers a two-year certificate-
course in sheep and wool, details of
which are available from the
Director of Technical Education,
Broadway, Sydney P.R.J.; (1) The
qame “Tactyl” refers to a range of
products used as preservatives and
rust-proofing agents, generally. The
products are manufactured by the
Valvoline Oil Company, U.S.A., and
are distributed in Sydney by J
Carrigan Pty., Ltd., 236 Cleveland-
street, Sydney. (2) Write Nock and
Kirby, Ltd., 417 George-street,
Sydney M.M.: “Hope deferred
maketh the heart sick” is from
Proverbs xiii, 12....H.H.: The “Red
Page” article ‘‘The Hawkesbury
Song” appeared on Feb. 16 and
“The Old Bark Hut” on May 18 —
loth last year W.G.: Julia Grey
(Paddington-Lady Grey) was firs
raced by Messrs. Gainsford am
Swivel, then by Messrs. Tuckerford
and Gainsford, but later —and for
most of her career —by Mrs. L
Thompson, for whom she was trained
by A. E. Thompson. The 1922
Tattersall’s Club Cup figures among
races won by her.... W.F.: The
courses available in Queensland are
as follows: Central Technical
College, Brisbane wool-classing;
Queensland Agricultural High School
and College, Lawes —diploma-course
in animal-husbandry; University of
Queensland certificate-course (by
correspondence) in Agricultural
Science; Brisbane Technical College
Correspondence School, South Bris-
bane - correspondence-courses in
miscellaneous rural subjects.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.A.: Not enough candle-power in
“The Lights of &arcom Avenue. 1 ’
L.E.: It would have been better
if you had forgotten those verses
you wrote when you were a school-
girl M.F.: Three stories with
trick-endings that tricked nobody at
252 Ge o r ge-s tr e e t.,. .W.J.F.:
Husband who ordered his wife to
provide bed and breakfast for his
girl-friend was shown off the premises.
J.W.: Somebody had to do it:
F.H.G.: That miser will have to
count his hoard elsewhere
S.W.W.: At no time did “The Beauty
Contest Queen” look like a winner
in the race to the printer.... V.S.:
From what lavender-scented album
was that sentimental item rescued?
W.S.E.: That is a lot of words to
waste on a back-alley dogfight
P.F. ; Any young man who can
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
declare his love in such rapturous
words should have an assured future
—as a writer of rhymes for lolly-
wrappers L.T.: English earl in
disguise, , counter-jumping in Mel-
bourne, makes plain Jane in hosiery
department his bride —no thanks
V.F.; Come in and roar:
THE OLYMPIC GAMES
With the torch that is lighted in far
away Greece,
With the flame that is borne o’er the
, sea,
May the nations go forward in friend-
ship and peace,
United, forever, to be.
From England to China, from Ireland to
Rome,
The great and the smallest of Powers,
With athletes undaunted and welltried at
home,
All come to this Melbourne Of ours.
So ‘‘Welcome!” we say to all who may
corpe
No matter whatever your game.
For here in the land of the blossoming
gum
You’ll take away medals and fame.
And when all is over —the laurels are won
And the athletes return from the
games—
Then Melbourne will be, when the cheer-
ing is done.
Among the most cherished of names.
THE SONG OF THE MISSING ISLAND
[Tasmania has been omitted from the
map of Australia on the official blazers
for the Olympic Games.]
The Apple Isle gave Oberon and young
Errol Flynn,
To say you don’t know us is really a sin.
And our coast town of Zeehan can right-
fully claim
A birth which has brought it a great deal
of fame.
Don’t you know who? we cry with one
voice, \
Hasn’t somebody told you of our Eileen
Joyce?
And, to continue ... Oh! what the heck!
Hasn’t any Mainlander heard of The
Speck ?
H.B.: Story beginning “As
Broncho Yates and his gang of cattle-
rustlers galloped down the main street
of Cooma firing their six-shooters,
the honky-tonk girls in the dance
palaces squealed with delight,”
galloped right into the basket —
E.L.: “Is this little effort anything to
be proud of?” Not by a long chalk.


At lost We Know Where We Are
Putting Us In Our Place
By MARK O' POLO
Illustrations on this page are from Samuel Eliot Morison’s
topnotch historical biography, “Christopher Columbus; Admiral
of the Ocean Sea” (Oxford University Press). As the article s
alitor notes, Columbus wan a long way out in putting anywhere
“in its place.”
IT is one thing to discover a
place; another to know
exactly where it is. The best
example of a man who
found a new place and didn’t
know where it was is un-
doubtedly Columbus.
No navigator has ever been so
far out as Columbus was. The
longitude of his landfall in the
West Indies was roughly what
we call today 75deg. West of
Greenwich. He thought he was
near the East Indies, about
longitude 120 deg. East.
Part of his error was due to his
underestimation of the circum-
ference of the earth by 4000
miles, and part to his dead-
reckoning.
Magellan shortly proved that
half the world separated the two
Indies, and although his ship, by
sailing round the world, made it
impossible for any sane future
Compass cards of the 16th century and today.
navigator ever to be 6000 miles
out in his reckoning again, the
oceans were still wide enough to
allow plenty of longitudinal error
in the following 200 years.
The trouble was that the age
of discovery came and had gone
before the navigational aids to
discovery had had time to catch-
up. Finding of latitude —i.e.,
distance north or south of the
Equator —is, and always has
been, easy. The two methods
known to antiquity, by altitude
of the sun or of the polestar,
are used today; the only
improvements in 2000 years
have been in instruments and
tables.
Finding of longitude —i.e., dis-
tance along a line parallel to the
Equator—was, however, not
easy.
For three centuries after the
Portuguese first crept out into the
Atlantic the ocean-going captain
of any nation had no practical
means of discovering his longi-
tude otherfthan by his own dead-
reckoning.
In Elizabethan times it was not
uncommon for a skipper to be
600 miles out in his d.-r. on a
voyage between the West Indies
and the Azores, a 20-per-cent,
error. The few existing charts
were all wrong, and their only
instrument was the astrolabe, a
clumsy, half-useful contrivance
for getting latitude.
One 16th-century suggestion
for finding longitude was by
plotting magnetic variation.
Columbus, Cabot and others had
all noted this phenomenon, and
it was argued that, since this
variation appeared to be different
in different parts of the globe, all
that was required was a map
showing lines joining all the
places of observed equal varia-
tion, and you virtually had a
grid for longitude.
A glance at a modern school-
atlas showing a world-map with
these lines plotted on it quickly
exposes the futility of this
scheme.
Early iff the 17th century two
powerful inventions began to
help the astronomers. They were
Galileo’s telescope and Napier’s
logarithms ; the first opened the
way to accurate celestial observa-
tion, the other lightened the
burden of complicated mathe-
matics involved in reducing the
observations to a result.
After he had discovered and
observed the behavior of
Jupiter’s satellites, Galileo drew-
up tables for deriving longitude
from observation of the
satellites. In Captain Cook's
day the accepted way of finding
longitude was by “lunar dis-
tances,” a method dependent
upon the measurement of the
angular distance between the
moon and the sun, or some other
well-documented fixed star.
There were several disadvan-
tages to this method. The move-
ments of the moon are very com-
plicated, and were then not
known well enough to allow any
great precision in predicting her
position in the sky ; 18th-century
astronomical tables were sparse
and inaccurate; neither the
observations nor the calculations
were easy to make; and there
were not many sailors of the
stamp of Cook, who had the
ability, patience and devotion
required.
The method had been known
and used a long time, but, as
with Jupiter’s satellites, it
required for any reasonable
result at all a motionless observa-
tion-platform, which was obvi-
ously impossible to get on a ship
at sea.
So, despite the steady increase
in power and refinement of in-
struments and in the accuracy
and scope of astronomical tables,
there Still remained no precise
means of finding longitude at sea
until the chronometer was
invented.
The possibility of finding
longitude by measuring time
instead of space was well known.
Gemma Frisius, of Antwerp, had
pointed it out as early as 1530.
There is no simpler method. The
only thing needed was a clock
that always showed what time
it was at the home-port or chosen
point of departure. Then,
wherever you were, you merely
compared this with your own
easily-found local time, and the
difference as a part of 24 hours
was your longitude.
The difficulty was to find the
clock. The order of accuracy
required of the timekeeper is
easily demonstrated. One degree
of longitude is equal to four
minutes of time. Suppose it took
a ship 40 days to cross the
Atlantic, and its clock lost or
gained as little as 30 seconds a
day. At the end
of the voyage it
would be 20
minutes out, five
degrees, or
about 300 miles.
Nothing ap-
proaching even
this rough order
of chronometric
'approxima tion
was known or
could be at-
tempted in 1530,
or in 1630, and
not until the
Dutchman
Huygens put a
pendulum on to
a clock in
1660 did the
measurers
of time begin to
achieve refinement.
Huygens’s clock was Tnounted
in gimbals and given, sea-trials.
It proved to be a good time-
keeper at constant temperature
in a flat calm.
From 1600 the Spanish,
French and Dutch Governments
had in turn offered huge rewards
for a practical method of finding
longitude at sea. In 1714 the
British Government also offered
a prize, and created a Board of
Longitude to eliminate the cranks
and judge the entries. Prize and
specification were about evenly
matched: £10,000 for a method
giving longitude at sea to within
Marine quadrant of 1492.
one degree on a voyage across the
Atlantic, or £20,000 (1956
equivalent about a quarter-of-a-
million) for getting within half a
degree.
The story of John Harrison’s
40 years’ work on his six
chronometers and his long stub-
born uphill battle (he was a
Yorkshireman, like Cook) with
the board for payment of the
prize makes absorbing, if at
times painful, reading.
In the end it was his king,
George 111, who stood his friend
and, in 1772, forced the board to
pay.
Part of the trouble was the
wonderful accuracy of the
chronometer, which the board
apparently refused to believe,
despite its successful perform-
ance on two ocean-trials; and,
also, certain members of the
examining committee were inter-
ested parties. The Rev.
Maskelyne, Astronomer Royal,
was a confirmed, almost
obsessed, “lunars” man; Halley
had spent years of his otherwise
useful life in patient devotion to
tables of magnetic variation ; and
Mudge was a rival clockmaker.
The result was that the inven-
tion that the world was crying
out for s which had passed its first
test in 1762, was, in effect,
withheld for 10 years.
Longitude is generally
expressed in one of three ways:
_as a time, an angular distance,
‘or simply a linear distance —
which, doesn’t matter, provided
always that the starting- or
datum-line is stated.
For instance, the first Aus-
tralian longitude of which there
is record is probably on some old
Portuguese or Spanish chart of
the 16th century. It would prob-
ably locate some point on the
north or west coast, and be
stated, not in degrees east of
Greenwich, but in degrees east of
Teneriffe, the Azores, or perhaps
Pope Alexander Vi’s line, or
even in miles east of the Cape
of Good Hope, or Madagascar.
On a modern map of the world
it can be. seen that the meridian
passing through the easternmost
of the Azores group comes down
the other side of the globe
through the Solomon Islands and
a few miles east of Brisbane.
Ortelius’s 1587 map of the
New World shows the 360°
meridian passing through that
part of the Azores, and its con-
tinuation on the other side of the
world, the 180° meridian,
passing through western New
Guinea, thus displacing New
Guinea by 1500 miles, and show-
ing that they were still under-
estimating the size of the earth.
In 1603 the Dutch broke into
the East Indies ; they were soon
masters of those seas, and from
1606 onwards they recorded Aus-
tralian longitudes.
In 1621 the English ship Tryal
was wrecked on a reef off a
group of islands now. known as
the Monte Bellos, the nearest any
Englishmen had got to Australia
since Drake. The longitude of
the wreck was stated by the sur-
vivors to have been that of the
western extremity of Java —
almost lOdeg. out. Had they
said the eastern end they would
have been very nearly right.
Tasman’s first sight of Aus-
tralia was near Point Hibbs.
After careful calculation, he was
about 100 miles out. Since leav-
ing Mauritius 47 days before he
had travelled 4500 miles without
sighting land, so that his d.-r.,
considering the state of naviga-
tion in 1642, was not altogether
hopeless.
After Tasman’s second voyage
the Dutch were able to fill-in
with reasonable accuracy the
whole of the north and west
coasts of Australia from Cape
York to the head of the Bight.
The familiar outline is instantly
recognisable, and despite the
great width of the continent there
is remarkably little elongation of
the shape because of longitudinal
inexactness.
Dampier’s voyages afford a
couple of examples of d.-r. which
seem to be simply a variable
combination of skill and luck.
In the narrative of his first
world voyage, Dampier, sailing
with Captain Swan (1686),
records that they left Cape
Corrientes, Lat. 20° N. on the
Mexican coast, with the intention
of making Guam in the Ladrones
(Marianas), Lat. 13° N.
Swan had two sets of charts,
English and Spanish. The
English charts made the
distance about 6000 miles ; the
Spanish (and Dampier admits the
Spaniards probably knew more
about it than anyone else) made
it over 7000.
Swan had first to talk his
unwilling crew into believing the
shorter distance ; after they had
long outsailed it he managed to
persuade them that the Spanish
charts were the more reliable.
On the 50th day out they
passed over a shoal, took it as a
sign of land near, and decided it
was time to turn north, “being
somewhat troubled and doubtful
[they had just handed out the
last of the food] whether we were
right, because there was no shole
laid down in the Spanish
draughts.” Three hours, or 10
miles, later they sighted 'Guam,
24 miles away, bearing N.N.E.
Surely this must have been
one of the most stupendous
pieces of dead-reckoning in the
17th century!
Without a -tremor of the quill
Mariner’s astrolabe.
Dampier goes on to calculate the
longitude of Guam, and gives it
as 125° IT west of Corrientes,
reckoning about 58£ miles to the
degree. This was wrong, a
degree in those latitudes being
nearer 67 miles, and Guam 110°
west of Corrientes, so to him,
too, the world was smaller than
it is ; but his mileage was almost
bang-on.
In a table showing the daily
course, weather, distance, etc.,
Dampier also gives the daily
westing and the total (7323
miles), which is within a trifling
few miles of the true distance.
(Continued on page 27)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
05UWJVAX
wtwa
vuot
MAMU
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SIDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
‘ JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES,
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKB
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
‘ PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
. HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Summertime (imp.), a son of
Precipitation (a stayer of note
in England, where he won,
among other races, the Ascot
Gold Cup, 2| miles), was
represented by the two first
winners at the V.R.C. meeting at
Flemington on Saturday,
Summalu landing the Batman
Stakes and Good Summer the
Flemington Stakes. Good
Summer is from a half-sister to
two New Zealand winners, Good
Bay and Donegal Bay.
After his easy win in the C. B.
Fisher Plate, following his run-
away success in the Caulfield
Pentathlon Stakes (in both races
capably handled by A. Mulley),
connections of Sailor’s Guide
said the four-year-old might
have his future racing restricted
to weight-for-age contests, as it’s
expected he’d now get plenty of
weight in handicaps. The well-
performed four-year-old has
won £41,344 in stakes, and is
10th on the list of notable Aus-
tralian winners.
Running of the C. B. Fisher
Plate saw the eclipse of two New
Zealanders, Rising Fast and
Redcraze, both missing a place
in a field of six. The Plate also
saw a 200-to-one shot, Allbos,
pick up third money (£600) in a
photo-finish with Redcraze.
Allbos’s record up to then con-
sisted of a Maiden win at
Woodend.
Connections said after the
Fisher Plate that Rising Fast
would now be retired. It was
announced also that Redcraze
may be back for the big autumn
events.
Sydney’s champion two-year-
old filly, Concert Star, remains
unbeaten in four races, and will
now take things easy till it’s time
to prepare her for autumn
classics. She won two races in
Sydney and two in Melbourne?
and in brilliant fashion. There
was little betting on her for the
V.R.C. Mimosa Stakes, though
fielders did offer to take sevens!
Melbourne Racing Club’s
Williamstown Cup (13 furlongs ;
£4OOO and gold cup worth
£300), to be run next Saturday,
will wind-up the spring racing
with a rich “consolation” event
for stayers.
Maybe a Melbourne-owned
horse will land the big end of
the Williamstown Cup stake-
money this time. They have had
a lean run in the spring Cups
so far, Adelaide’s best»stayer,
Pandie Sun, winning both the
Moonee Valley and the Olympic
Year Cups, Sydney’s Evening
Peal the Melbourne Cup, and
New Zealand-owned, Sydney-
trained Redcraze the Caulfield
Cup.
Ron Hutchinson had his 44th
Cup win when Pandie Sun won
the Olympic Year Cup. The
Adelaide stayer is a particularly
fit galloper.
The Q.T.C. Derby, run last
Saturday, was won by the
6-to-l-on Book Link, in slow
time. He strolled in by five
lengths from outsiders Beau
Brueghel and East Star. Book
Link, trained by leading Bris-
bane mentor H. F. Best, is a
gelding three-year-old son of
Persian Book (imp.) and Honey
Dew. He also won the Q.T.C.
Guineas. His dam is by
Christopher Robin (imp.) from
Brunette by Magpie (imp.).
• . i.
The Queensland Cup (two
miles), to be run next Saturday,
has been a feature event since
1878, 10 years after the first
Queensland Derby was pro-
grammed. Most Cup winners
have scored with light weights.
Prince Cortauld finished a
distant third to the French three-
year-old Master Boing and an
American representative, Mister
Gus, in the Washington Inter-
national. Last year’s winner,
Fisherman (U.S.), was fourth.
Driving rain and a soft track
wouldn’t have helped Prince
Cortauld, whose best races in
Sydney and Melbourne were
run on firm going. State of the
track was reflected in the slow
time—2.39 for the 12 furlongs.
Two years ago the Prince won
the Williamstown Cup over that
distance in 2.29}.
Not many of the progeny of
Turkaris (imp.) have been tried,
though his oldest representatives
are four-year-olds. His half-
dozen or so winners include
Dark Prince and Turkestan, the
latter successful in the Warwick
Farm Hoxton Park Stakes for
two-year-old colts and geldings
last Saturday. Tregazza, dam
of Turkestan, is a half-sister to
Delta and to Deep River. She
is by Le Grand Due (imp.) from
Gazza by Magpie (imp.).
The Denham Canterbury
stable, continuing its winning run,
added a further two wins to an
impressive total when Flag Top
and Co lum b u s scored at
Warwick Farm. Columbus is
owned by New Zealand owner-
trainer A. D. Webster, but the
gelding has been a member of
Denham’s’ team while Webster
has been in Melbourne looking
after Fair Chance (second in the
C. B. Fisher Plate to Sailor’s
Guide). Doug Weir, riding in
top form, had the mounts on the
Denham horses. He has now
won 19 races on Sydney tracks
and is second on the winning-
list to G. Moore (29 firsts). .
Persian Link has been
purchased by a patron of Rose-
bery trainer W. A. Wilson. The
six-year-old grey Persian gelding
has won several races, main
success being in the Doomben
Cup last year, but he’s not easy
to train. Wilson is showing k
lot of patience with the grey,
who for the time being is doing
easy work, mostly on the
cinders-track, on which he’s
ridden almost daily by Roy
James. Persian Link has
improved in appearance in the
past couple of weeks.
An apprentice’s first race-win
is always an exciting affair for
the youngster, bringing his
mount into No. 1 berth for the
first time, and Brian Thomas,
who won TattersalPs Cup at
Newcastle on Kidarin, was all
keyed-up when he led the minor
placegetters, Briar Bush and
Sundisc, back to the enclosure.
Though Kidarin started at 50 to
1 and paid a dividend of
£66 18s. 9d. for 55., he had mild
stable support, and the prize
was worth £750. Thomas’s
master, Rosebery trainer and
former jockey Fred Hood,
regards the young horseman as
an up-and-coming rider who
will do well with more experi-
ence. Thomas, who’s 16, can go
to scale at 7.2.
When racing in New Zealand
and in Australia stayer Howe
had 15 successes and earned
upwards of £20,250 in stakes,
but so far his progeny haven’t
set the Turf on fire. Not many
have raced, but this winner of
You can say we've got a counter to
below-the-belt tactics
the Moonee Valley Cup was
represented by Howeson, who
bagged £ Hawkesbury Maiden
Seven. Howeson is from the
Myosotis (imp.) mare Hyacinth.
* * *
This week trotting, too, goes
Olympics - minded: tomorrow
(Thursday) night the Olympic
Year Trotting Carnival begins
on the Melbourne Showgrounds
track, featuring over the three
nights (Nov. 22, Nov. 26, Dec. 1)
a £3500 Olympic Cup and £3550
Carnival Handicap.
Though there’s no meeting at
Harold Park this week, N.S.W.
nominations in the Victorian
plums are not big; but one or
two of those entered could more
than pay for expenses. Of the
three N.S.W. nominations in the
Cup (Worthy Carl, Powerful
Lady and General Grattan),
General Grattan looks to have
the biggest show; last week’s
mile hit-out at the Park should
bring him near his peak. But
to get on the right end of the
money he has to toss locals
Argent, Rendral, Gentleman
John, Kamulla, Apparently and
last-start winner Fine Finish (he
rated 2.10? on a wet track over
the 12|-furlongs distance of the
Cup to beat a snappy field last
Friday)— not to mention the
A. G. Hunter Cup winner of
last season, S.A. pacer
Merchant.
In the Carnival Handicap
Lucy’s Van, Country Lady, Sky
High, Star Hill, Wynhaven and
Antares —all with Harold Park
runs under their belts —are
among the noms. Of these, Sky
High and Star Hill are choicest
quality: Sky High is one of the
most efficient bits of pacing
machinery seen about for a
while ; Star Hill appears capable
of anything once he leaves the
mark, which isn’t often. Runner-
up to Argent in last year’s Vic-
torian Derby, S.A. horse Chief
Spring won at the Showgrounds
last Friday, earning a run in the
Carnival Handicap; and, from
scratch, he’ll take beating. Wesr
tralia’s three-year-old flyer of
last season, Free Hall, and locals
First Rank and Bannockburn
should keep things on the move.
+ +
Reversing things somewhat
from the previous week’s Pelaco
Tournament in Sydney, visiting
golfers put their teeth into the
big Ampol plum played at the
Yarra Yarra course in Mel-
bourne last week, with the result
that 21-year-old South African
Gary Player went off after four
businesslike rounds of the
course £5OOO richer; and
American wood-’n’-ironer Bo
Wininger settled for second
money, a cool £lOOO. To top it
off, Belgian Van Donck shared
third money with locals Pick-
worth and Harris. Peter Thom-
son, cruising in second place
behind the young S’African and
tipped by the experts to win-out
with experience and precision,
crashed in the last round,
winding-up fourth. Hitting the
front from the start and sticking
there for an aggregate 280 (six
strokes clear of the nearest),
Player provided another of those
weight-for-age boilovers.
* * *
The athletic meeting at
Bendigo on Saturday was the
last competitive meeting for the
Olympic athletes before the
start of the Games—-actually,
apart from tomorrow’s opening
ceremony in the afternoon and
the beginnings of the basketball
at night, it’s not till Friday that
the Games really get moving.
Athletes from 11 countries took
part at Geelong, with the
Americans winning most of the
events. One, Jack Davis, cover-
ing the 120yds. hurdles in
13.35ec., set a new world-record,
knocking one-tenth of a second
off his own previous time. Others
broke Australian records.
At an earlier meeting at
Geelong, on a rpid-week night,
Jim Bailey, after his disappoint-
ing mile-run at Puckapunyal the
previous Saturday, won the
1000yds. race in new Australian-
record time, 2min r 7.Bsec. Set
against that, though, was John
Landy’s very disheartening run
in the two-mile, won by English-
man Chris Brasher, also in new
Australian time, Bmin.
45.65ec... .Among the lasses,
noteworthy efforts on Saturday
by 17-year-old Michele Mason
in clearing sft. Bin. in the high-
jump, highest yet by an
Australian girl, and Betty
Cuthbert’s 23.45ec., on a heavy
track —just outside her own
world-record—in the 200-metres.
“A.L.D.”: Seven countries have
withdrawn from the Melbourne
Olympic Games. Holland, Spain
and Switzerland refused to send
teams if Russia was allowed to
compete, as a protest against
the Russian conduct in Hungary.
Egypt had refused to compete
weeks before the Egyptian-
Israeli war flared up ; and Irak
and Lebanon withdrew as a
result of that war. Communist
China’s refusal to send a team
was due to Nationalist China’s
being allowed to compete. This
last refusal has nothing to excuse
it. It was known months ago
that Nationalist China would be
competing,, and Comftiunist
China’s protest was voiced only
at the last possible moment.
* * *
Keith Miller, as had been
tipped, has retired. Without
doubt he was the greatest all-
rounder in the world since
World War II; and figures
enough can be given in support.
But there was something in
Miller more than the. mere
making of runs or the taking of
wickets; he was, also without
doubt, the most spectacular
cricketer for many a year, right
up in the tradition of Hirst, Jack
Gregory, Constantine. The
English cricket-writer A. A.
Thomson has perhaps described
him in a nutshell, while making
the claim (well before Miller’s
retirement) that all-rounders are
“specialists” as well as are the
batsman-only and the bowler-
only. “Is Keith Miller a
specialist? Yes. He is a
specialist not only in batting,
bowling and fielding, but also
in a match-winning quality of
his own.”
“Cunedda”: A cricket feat
that deserves a place ,in the
records of the game was featured
in the Mudgee “Guardian’s”
report of a recent match between
Kandos and Clandulla. “Vic
Mason took 3-5, and held four
snappy catches. One catch was
a gem. He took a hard square-
cut, low on the ground, while
rolling a cigarette, without losing
a grain of tobacco.”
“Atala”: West Torrens, in
Adelaide’s district-cricket, had
two very exciting finishes in
its first three matches. In one
game, against Prospect, West
Torrens, needing 106 runs in
67min. for an outright win, was
4-98 When the last over began ;
it then lost five wickets in five
balls and just escaped outright
defeat, Prospect then winning on
the first. (Bowler was Reg Arnall,
who took four wickets in suc-
cessive balls, the first one out
having been run-out.) Against
Sturt, West Torrens got two
wickets in the last over; the
second one off the second-last
ball, to snatch a first-innings win
when a draw had seemed certain.
* * *
After doing only so-so in their
early games the Kangaroos
hopped across the Channel and
had a good win over France,
15-8, in the first Rugby League
Test in Paris on Nov. 1. Back in
England the Australians have
continued to do only so-so, and,
in the mud at Wigan, were
easily beaten by England, 21-10.
Like the cricket over there this
year, England’s team was better
adapted to the conditions.
* * *
Ken Rosewall won the N.S.W.
singles by defeating Neale Fraser
6-4, 7-5, 6-4. It was Rosewall’s
first win of the N.S.W. title,
though he’d been runner-up to
Hoad last year and in 1953.
Fraser had to fight two rear-
guard actions to get to the final,
particularly against young
Queenslander Mai Anderson,
who’s playing improved tennis,
in their marathon semi-final. In
the doubles Fraser and his
partner, Ashley Cooper, also had
a couple of uphill battles—
Candy and Howe looked cer-
tainties in the semi-final —to get
to the final; but, having reached
it, they were more successful
than Fraser on his own, and beat
Anderson and Emerson, 6-4, 6-4,
3-6, 6-3, for the doubles-title.
Compensating for the elimina-
tion of all the American men
early in the piece, the women’s
final was between the two
Americans, Shirley Fry and
negress Althea Gibson; the
latter winning, 10-8, 6-2. The
American girls also won the
doubles.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Incidentally, had Swan stayed*
in Lat. 20° N. for the first three
weeks, instead of making his
southing as soon as he did, they’d
have discovered Hawaii 90 years
before Cook. How the Spaniards
managed to avoid it in the 150
years they had the almost
exclusive run of that route is a
bit of a mystery.
On his 1699 voyage Dampier
located the mouth of Shark Bay
87° east of the Cape of Good
Hope, “which is less by 195
leagues than is usually laid down
in our common draughts.” The
actual separation is near 95°, so
it would seem that (1), the
“common draughts,” which
could only have been Dutch, or
copies of Dutch originals, were
not far out; (2) he should have
had Captain Swan with him.
Cook recorded the next Aus-
tralian longitude 70 years after
Dampier. It is interesting to
notice that he gives their longi-
tude when they sighted Australia
as 210° 39' W., whereas today a
distance greater than 180° W. is
quoted as so many degrees E.
From 1788 until 1858 the
fundamental Australian meridian
was that of Fort Macquarie.
From this datum-line, to which
over a dozen different values had
been assigned by different skilled
observers between 1788 and
1835, surveyors and explorers
fixed the positions of places in-
land and determined the original
meridional colonial boundaries.
In 1839, five years after the
eastern boundary of South Aus-
tralia had been proclaimed and
defined as the 14,15 t E. meridian,
Sir George Gipps commissioned
Surveyor Tyers to find and fix
its true position. Tyers used as
his datum the Fort Macquarie
meridian, to which he, peculiarly,
assigned the value —10 hours 05
minutes 093 inis was
not a previously known pub-
lished value, but Professor Dod-
well pointed out (1923) that it
differs from the average of 14
well-known results by observers
from Cook to Captain Fitzroy in
1835, including Hunter, King,
Flinders and Rumker, by only
0.02 seconds.
By transportation of chrono-
meters to Batman’s Hill and
thence by theodolite triangula-
tion, Tyers fixed the position of
the 141st E. and checked it by
lunar observation. His computa-
tions wbre later checked by
Captain Owen Stanley,' whose
result differed by only 16"
(seconds of arc).
Foundation of the Obser-
vatories of Williamstown (1854),
Sydney (1858) and Melbourne
(1863) was followed by the
establishment of two new funda-
mental Australian meridians.
After years of painstaking
work, checking and counter-
checking, Tyers’s adopted value
for Fort Macquarie was
questioned and found to be far
too great. As this meant that the
South Australian - Victorian
boundary had been placed too
far west, the two Governments
ordered a redetermination by the
Government astronomers.
The work was done in 1868 by
Todd (S.A.), Ellery ‘(Vic.), and
Smalley (N.S.W.), using a
combination of celestial observa-
tion, telegraphic exchange, and
chaining; the result of their
labors showing that the bound-
ary had indeed been marked 2\
miles west of the 141st.
South Australia attacked at
once, hotly claiming her 4000yds.
of stolen territory. Victoria
wouldn’t shift. The row got
hotter ; and in 1911 the matter
was brought before the High
Court, which ruled that, since
South Australia hadn’t noticed
she had been robbed for 30
years, the boundary could stay
where it was.
For this work Todd took as
his datum the longitude of the
Sydney Observatory, and the
figure he used —lOh. 04m.
48.975., was his own (extremely
accurate, as it turned out) evalua-
tion.
With the passing years (well
before that final 1911 business)
astronomical work was becoming
more and more refined: better
methods, better instruments,
more observers were now in the
field, and in Australia astronomy
was augmented and strengthened
by the efforts of two outstanding
scientific men of N. S. Wales.
H. C. Russell was appointed
third director of the Sydney
Observatory in 1870, in succes-
sion to G. R. Smalley. His
observations over 1863-74 led
him to the for the
longitude of Sydney —lOh. 04m.
50.815., which he officially
adopted in 1878. The astro-
nomical work of John Tebbutt, a
private observer of Windsor,
extended over 60 years, during
which time he won world-repute
both as discoverer and
observer. His contribution to the
elusive longitude of Sydney was
—50.645., based on the results of
232 observations between 1863
and 1878.
At last, in 1882, came the time
that the astronomers must have
been biting their nails for ever
since the first submarine-cable
was laid in 1851, for by then the
longitudes of a chain of stations
extending from Greenwich to
Singapore had been determined
by the telegraphic method, and it
was now arranged by the British
and Australian Governments to
bring the chain to Darwin by
exchanging clock-signals with
Singapore.
This was done in 1883 through
the Eastern Extension Co.’s
cable; P. Baracchi, of Victoria,
being in charge of the work at
Darwin, and Captain L. Darwin,
R.E., working at the Singapore
end.
In effect, this successful 1883
operation provided a direct com-
parison of Australian local time
with Greenwich, gave us the
Darwin meridian as a new
fundamental, and produced a set
of results completely independ-
ent of all the previous values,
which, although in extremely
close agreement with the new
values, were immediately ren-
dered obsolete.
The next Step in this third
phase of Australian longitude-
determinations was made a year
or so after the Pacific cable
reached us from Vancouver,
when (in 1904) Dr. Klotz, of
Canada, having extended the
existing Greenwich-Vancouver
telegraphic chain of longitudes
through Fanning Is.-Suva-
Norfolk Is. to Southport,
measured the Sydney-Southport
difference by exchange of clock-
signals, and so closed the circuit
round the earth.
This provided a most inter-
esting, potent, and satisfying
check on all previous and
current work.
In Klotz’s final values for the
longitude of Sydney—by the
eastern route (from Greenwich)
and by • the western route —the
difference, called the closing
error,, was less than seven-
hundredths of a second of time,
being just over a second of arc,
or, more familiarly, 84ft, Pretty
close, in 25,000 miles.
A temporary observatory was
built at Mt. Stromlo by the
Commonwealth Government in
1911 in order to test the suit-
ability of the site for the erection
of a permanent observatory of
high order. In 1913 Victorian
Government Astronomer Barac-
chi, after observations extending
over two years* reported very
favorably on the site, at the same
time urging the adoption of the
meridian of Mt. Stromlo as the
primary Australian one, and its
direct connection with the
eastern chain of longitudes at
Darwin and the western' chain at
Southport.
The intense interest that South
Australia had displayed in the
demarcation of her eastern
boundary seems to have been
curiously absent from her deal-
ings with Western Australia for
the fixing of her western one.
In 1918 the South Australian
Government finally agreed to a
VV. A. request (repeated
frequently since 1903) to fix their
common boundary, the 129th E.
meridian. S.A. Government
Astronomer Dodwell suggested
that before fixing the boundary
the fundamental longitudes
should be re-measured by radio-
signals in direct connection with
England, as had been previously
strongly recommended by
Baracchi.
Radio-signals had been used
for longitude-determinations as
early as 1914, when the Com-
monwealth Government resumed
land for the • transcontinental
railway-line. Dodwell’s main
proposal was a redetermination
of an Australian primary meri-
dian by radio-signal, and the
establishment of the 129th E. and
other longitudes by internal
measurement. The work, in
1921, resulted in each capital get-
ting yet another longitude value.
Commenting on the close
agreement between the 1883
cable- and the 1921 radio-results,
Professor Dodwell, in 1923, paid
tribute to the thorough and
accurate work of the tele-
graphists, and called attention
to some remarkable results of the
early navigators.
Of these, the most interesting
is, of course, Cook’s. The first
value for the longitude of Fort
Macquarie was derived from
Cook’s coastal observations of
1770, and according to the 1921
radio-result it is only a mile-and-
a-quarter out; an amazingly
accurate determination; as Dod-
well notes, considering the com-
parative crudity of Cook’s instru-
ments and tables and the time
and distance over which he had
transported his chronometers.
But Cook did not have a
chronometer on that voyage.
What is even more amazing is
that had he had one, and used„it
to get his Australian longitudes,
he might have been much further
out than he was.
Harrison’s No. 4 chrono-
meter, on its second trial in 1764,
when Charles Green took it to
Barbados and back, gained 54
seconds in 156 days, but by
applying Harrison’s predeter-
mined correction-factors the
error was reduced to only 15
seconds, or one-tenth of a second
a day over the trip. This was
extraordinarily good for a sea-
faring clock, but it wouldn’t have
been good enough for Cook. He
was 18 months out of England
(about 540 days) when he first
saw the Australian coast, so that,
even with corrections applied, the
prize chronometer, had he had
it, would have been nearly a
minute astray, and in longitude
this period of time in Sydney is
something like 14 miles.
The copy of Harrison’s No. 4
by Larcum Kendall - mentioned
by Prof. Dodwell was carried by
Cook on his second voyage,
together with three timepieces by
Arnold, another famous maker.
What Cook did have on board
on the first voyage, however, was
Mr. Charles Green, an assistant
to Maskelyne at the Royal
Observatory, and apparently an
assistant out of the, ordinary.
“Honor to whom honor” ; this is
what Wharton, in Captain
Cook’s Journal, says: ■ —
Mr. Green was an indefatigable
observer. Cook, an excellent observer
himself,, frequently took part, but it
was Green’s especial business, and no
doubt is due to him the major part of
the determinations of accurate
longitude which is one of the very
remarkable points of their voyage.
Green’s log, which is extant, is filled
with lunar observations, and the extra-
ordinary coincidence between different
Observations attests to the care with
which they were made.... It is evident
from a study of the original docu-
ments that without Green many
opportunities for getting longitude
would have been lost, Cook having
no time to spare to make use of
them.
The final results... .are not equally
good due to errors in the moon’s
position.... The astonishing thing is
not that some longitudes are con-
siderably in error, hut that the
majority of them are so near the
truth.
By 1921 the standards of
observational method and instru-
mental refinement had reached
an elevation that would have
staggered Todd, bemused Green,
and sent Dampier into roars of
good-natured laughter. It might
have been thought that at this
stage Sydney, Melbourne and the
rest would be allowed to stay
where Professor Dodwell had
put them, right to the third
decimal place, but it was not to
be: a few years later we seem to
have entered the fifth, and
present, “international” phase of
getting put into place.
In 1926 the first International
Longitude Operation was put
through, Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide participating; and in
1933 the second, with Melbourne
and Adelaide.
The 1926 Sydney result, pub-
lished in the Nautical Almanac
since . 1932, still stands; the
longest time the old town’s
stayed in one place since Lieuten-
ant Dawes stepped ashore in
1788.
The meridian of the Sydney
Observatory remains the Aus-
tralian primary meridian until a
world-wide revision is made after
the International Geophysical
Year. The standing figures for
Melbourne and Adelaide are the
1952 findings based on the 1933
1.L.0. results. The Bureau Inter-
national de l’Heure, with which
Mt. Stromlo has been associated
since 1949, published the 1954
value for Mt. Stromlo —9h.
56m. 1.40695. Inclusion of the
fourth decimal place would seem
to mean that the position of this
meridian, 12,000 miles from its
Greenwich datum, is now being
located to within two inches.
ALEGPULL VLASSIC
By DON J.
Australian con. - men
would get into the World
Cup final in their
particular art. And if they
did not win it they would pro-
bably pinch the trophy anyway.
' It could be argued that our
legpullers are also in world class,
for tlie only big difference
between a good legpuller and a
con.-man seems to be in the
attitude C.1.8.
Both work on the gullibility
of others. Both can get away
with the most outrageous things
by wearing a poker-face and
telling a plausible story. But
legpullers only do.it for laughs.
Bentwhistle could have gone
far as a con.-man, but he stuck
to what he regarded as the more
honest profession of journalism.
In this it was lot to meet the
ships bringing' travellers to
Sydney.
He lived, one gathered, in an
old colonial home with lawns
going down to the water —just
where was wholly immaterial.
The way he could bring a
reference to “one of my billiard-
rooms” into a conversation
would convince even those who
knew him. He never spoke of his
gardener, always his “head
gardener,” leaving you to
imagine how many more there
were. And the worst southerly
buster that ever hit Sydney was
the one that tore “one” of his
yachts from its moorings in
Rushcutter Bay 1 and lifted it
clean on to the tramlines . . .
Bentwhistle spotted the two
men soon after he boarded the
ship from the launch down the
Harbor.
They both wore rich, peaty
tweed. One even had a monocle.
Visible in their personal luggage
were four double-barrelled shot-
guns,
Bentwhistle charming chap,
Ben twhi stle—f ou nd they were
going to stay at the Australia,
and after making a couple of
notes about them to satisfy his
editor, he arranged to meet them
later for a quiet drink.
He met them that night in
their room at ,the hotel.
He found they had come all
the way from England to go into
the Australian backblocks for a
holiday duck-shooting. They
had heard wonderful things
about it. They were keen. they
were obviously well-heeled.
Duck-shooting seemed to be
their only care in the world. ,
Bentwhistle, who had once
shot a red-bill with an air-gun
as a boy, became an oracle on
duck-shooting. He amazed
them With his stories of the
ducks to be found in the western
river-systems, though he had
rarely been further west than
Parramatta.
When they brought the con-
versation „to the merits of
springer spaniels as against
retrievers, he insisted quietly that
no dog could hold a candle to the
Australian blue-heeler for duck-
getting. An idea flared in Bent-
whistle’s mind, but you would
not have known from his face.
He said: “Why go all that
way for ducks when there’s a
lake loaded with them right
here in Sydney? They’re just
waiting for someone to come
and take them away.”
All the visitors wanted to
know was when could they start.
“The best time,” Bentwhistle
told them, “is very early in the
morning. Would you like to go
tomorrow?”
Would they what!
So he wrote the directions on
a piece of copy-paper. He told
them to catch a cab tfiere. It
was that close to town.
They thanked him warmly,
and Bentwhistle left. The rest
of the story he he.ard from a
colleague, a court man.
The two walked down the /
stairs at the hotel at'4 a.m. next
day, wearing leather-elbowed
shooting-jackets, leggings,
bandoliers of duck-shot,, and
each carried a shotgun.
As the cab-driver was not
subpoenaed, his thoughts on
that driye are not recorded. But
he took them where the direc-
tions said, and left them.
The two found themselves in
rolling green countryside,
heavily-wooded in parts, and as
the sun came up it lit the lake.
It was not a large lake, but
on the rosy water there were
certainly plenty of ducks*.
The sportsmen crawled for-
ward on their stomachs, and
when they peered around some
bushes on the lake shore they
could scarcely believe what they
saw.
The ducks swam contentedly
with not the faintest trace of
suspicion, not even a glance.
The sportsmen rose and
blazed away in the morning.
They had just retrieved the last
of the ducks when they found
they had company.
The two car-loads of police-
men wanted to know: (a) Why
they were shooting on a Sunday ;
( b ) why they were shooting in
a sanctuary ; (c) why they were
shooting in Centennial Park.


mm
7
So
registered
first
mortgage
debenture
STOCK
annum
Fo " 5 ybahs
T M-
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and
Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS QF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of .h: E.S. £A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia’s
4 Leading Hire Purchase Organisation—
14.9.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
kuv mom /iff /
SANDERSI
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference cd
the end of each month—* or
any other period.
Price! and fur-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Norm to Bret. *•**•
Vtrdoo Prfe* l**
Docket Book Co. < AwU
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY
OVEN among the toughest
critics of U.S. foreign policy
—including the American
columnist who described Mr.
Dulles as “the most powerful
unguided missile in the world”
—there are very few indeed who
would question Uncle Sam’s
sincerity of purpose his un-
paralleled post-war generosity
should go down in history as a
monument to that.
Despite those things, however
—and despite the economic and
military might of the U.S.—
“there can be little doubt,”
comments Henry A. Kissinger
in the U-S- quarterly “Foreign
Affairs,” “that the policy of the
United States has reached an
impasse”:
“For several years we have
been groping for a concept to
deal with the transformation of
the cold war from an effort to
build defensive barriers into a
contest for the allegiance of
humanity. But the new Soviet
tactics; coupled with the equally
unassimilated increase in the
destructive potential of the new
weapons technology, have led to
a crisis in our system of alliances
and to substantial Soviet gains
among the uncommitted peoples
of the world.”
Kissinger, director of a study-
group on “Nuclear Weapons and
Foreign Policy” of the Council
on Foreign Relations, and an
associate of the Foreign Policy
Research Institute of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, examines
U.S. policy in considerable
length and detail.
“Happy Endings”
Errors of policy, he notes,
cannot be attributed to any par-
ticular Administration ; rather,
“it can be argued that our
[U.S.] policy has reached an
impasse because of our penchant
for happy endings ; the Soviet
rulers have been able to use
negotiations to their advantage
because we insisted on reading
from an old script. As in all
tragedies, many of our problems
have been produced in spite of
our good intentions and have
been caused not by our worst
qualities, but by our best. What
is at issue, therefore, is not a
policy but an attitude.
“It is understandable that a
nation which for a century and
a half had been preoccupied with
its domestic affairs should seek
to apply the pattern of these to
international affairs. But the
very success of the American
experiment and the spontaneity
of -our social institutions have
served to emphasise the dilemma
faced at some stage by every
country: how to reconcile its
vision of itself with the vision
of it as seen by others.
“There exists a double
standard, therefore, in all foreign
policy: internally, foreign policy
is justified like all other policy
in terms of an absolute standard ;
but abroad, what is defined as
justice domestically becomes a
programme to be compromised
by negotiation.
“Foremost among the attitudes
affecting our foreign policy is
American empiricism and its
quest for methodological cer-
tainty : nothing is ‘true’ unless
it is ‘objective’ and it is not
‘objective’ unless it is part of
experience. This makes for the
absence of dogmatism and for
the ease of social relations on
the domestic scene. But in the
conduct of foreign policy it has
pernicious consequences.
“The Risks Are Certain”
“Foreign policy is the art of
weighing probabilities; mastery
of it lies in grasping the nuances
of possibilities. To attempt to
conduct it as a science must lead
to rigidity. For only the risks
are certain; the opportunities
are conjectural. One cannot be
‘sure’ about the implications of
events until- they have happened
and when they have occurred it
is too late to do anything about
them.
“Empiricism in foreign policy
leads to a penchant for ad hoc
London “Daily Mirror...
“SORRY, THAT WAS ANOTHER MISTAKE OF THE PAST."
solutions; the rejection of
dogmatism inclines our policy-
makers to postpone committing
themselves until all facts are in;
but by the time the facts are in,
a Crisis has usually developed or
an opportunity has passed. Our
policy is therefore geared to
dealing with emergencies; it
finds difficulty in developing the
long-range programme that
might forestall them.
“A Reactive Policy”
Touching on the “vast
number of committees” which
“makes it difficult to arrive at
decisions in time,” Kissinger
adds that “the temptation to
formulate policy administratively
is ever-present in a Government
organised, as ours is, primarily
for the conduct of domestic
affairs”:
“But the spirit of policy and
that of bureaucracy are funda-
mentally opposed. Profound
policy thrives on cjeativeness;
good administration thrives on
routine —a procedure which can
assimilate* mediocrity. Policy
involves an adjustment of risks ;
administration an avoidance of
deviation.
“The attempt to formulate
policy administratively leads to
the acceptance of a standard
which evaluates by mistakes
avoided rather than by goals
achieved. It is no accident that
most great statesmen were
opposed by the ‘experts’ in their
foreign offices, for the very great-
ness of the statesman’s concep-
tion tends to make it inaccessible
to those whose primary concern
is with safety and minimum
risk.”
These factors lead to the
situation where “every Soviet
change is taken [by the U.S.] in
part at least at face-value, for
we cannot be certain that the
Soviets may not ‘mean’ it this
time until they have proved they
do not; and they will try their
best to prove it until the tactic
has served its purpose. On the
other hand, we have found it
difficult to adjust tactics to
new situations, so that we
always tend to speak in categories
of the most recent threat but one.
“The paradoxical result is that
we, the empiricists, appear to the
world as rigid, unimaginative
and even somewhat cynical,
while the dogmatic Bolsheviks
exhibit flexibility, daring and
subtlety. This is because our
empiricism dooms us to an
essentially reactive policy that
improvises a counter to every
Sovjet move, while the Soviet
emphasis on theory gives them
the certainty to act, to manoeuvre
and to run risks. The very fact
of action forces us to assume the
risks of- counter-moves and
absorbs our energies in essen-
tially defensive manoeuvres.”
Power
After commenting on lack of
tradition and lack of “tragic
experience,” Kissinger goes on
to comment on the U.S. “reluc-
tance to think in terms of
power”:
“To be sure, American expan-
sion both economic and geo-
graphical was not accomplished
without a judicious application
of power. But our Calvinist
heritage has required success to
display the attributes of justice.
Even our great fortunes, how-
ever accumulated, were almost
invariably held to impose a
social obligation; the great
foundation is after all a
peculiarly American
phenomenon. As a nation, we
have used power almost shame-
facedly as if it were inherently
wicked. We have wanted to ,be
liked for our own sakes and we
have wished to succeed because
of the persuasivness of our
principles rather than through
our strength. Our feeling of
guilt with respect to power has
caused us to transform all wars
into crusades, and then to apply
our power in the most absolute
terms. We have rarely found
intermediary ways to apply our
power and in those cases we
have done so reluctantly.
“But international relations
cannot be conducted without an
awareness of power relation-
ships.
“A Lasting Peace”?
“Consistent with our reluc-
tance to think in terms of power
has been our notion of the nature
of peace. We assume that peace
is the ‘normal’ pattern of rela-
tions among States, that it is
equivalent to a consciousness of
harmony, that it can be aimed
at directly as a goal of policy.
These are truisms rarely chal-
lenged in our political debate.
Both major political parties
maintain that they work for a
lasting peace, even if they differ
about the best means of attaining
it. Both make statements which
imply that on a certain magic
day, perhaps after a four-Power
conference, ‘peace will break
out.’
“No idea could be more
dangerous. To begin with, the
polarisation of power in the
world would give international
relations a degree of instability
even if there were no ideological
disagreement, and the present
volatile state of technology is
likely to compound this sense of
insecurity.
“Moreover, whenever peace—
conceived as the avoidance of
war—has become the direct
objective of a Power or a group
of Powers, international rela-
tions have been at the mercy of
the State willing to forgo peace.
No statesman can entrust the
fate of his country entirely to the
continued goodwill of another
sovereign State, if only because
the best guarantee for the will
remaining good is not to tempt
it by too great a disproportion of
power. Peace, therefore, cannot
be aimed at directly ; it is the
expression of certain conditions
and power relationships. It is
to these relationships not to
peace—that diplomacy must
address itself.”
Turning to “peaceful coexist-
ence”—justified within the Soviet
as “the most efficient offensive
tactic, as a more effective means
to subvert the existing order” —
Kissinger goes on to comment
that we [America] have been
reluctant to take at face-value
the often-repeated Soviet asser-
tion that they mean to smash the
existing framework:
“We have tended to treat
Soviet protestations as if their
intent were merely tactical—as
if the U.S.S.R. overstated its case
for bargaining purposes or were
motivated by specific grievances
to be assuaged by individual
concessions. There is a measure
of pathos in our effort to find
‘reasonable’ motives for the
Soviets to cease being Bolshevik:
the opportunity to develop the
resources of their own country,
the unlimited possibilities of
nuclear energy or of inter-
national trade.
“Legal Thinking”
“We reveal thereby a state
of mind which cannot come to
grips with a policy of unlimited
objectives. Our belief that an
antagonist can be vanquished
by the persuasiveness of argu-
ment, our trust in the efficacy of
the process of negotiation, reflect
the dominant role played in our
diplomacy by the legal profes-
sion and their conception of
diplomacy as a legal process.”
This legal thinking contributes
in part towards the “major
weakness” of “insufficient atten-
tion to the symbolic aspect of
foreign policy”:
“Our [American] positions
have usually been worked out


BRAND DSBWS
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
r
r
B-250
DIESEL TRACTOR
The tractor with more practical aids
to BETTER FARMINGI
This is the tractor that will work
for you faster easier better!
This is the tractor that’s easy to
start and easy to drive that
has dual 3-point linkage, “live”
hydraulics, differential lock, disc
brakes and rear P.T.O. included
in its amazingly low price. This
is the B-250 tractor Inter-
national Harvester’s brand new
versatile low-cost diesel tractor
with more practical farming aids
than any other tractor on the
market! You be the judge! Work-
test the B-250 on your farm!
Afull-li
GL-220. 2 & 3 Furrow
Mouldboard Plough.
GL-221. 2 & 3 Furrow
Disc Plough.
GL-226. Light Rear Blade.
GL-228. Double Toolbar
with a wide range of
tines and points.
Check and compare these
outstanding features
then YOU BE THE JUDGE!
WORK-TEST THE
NEW B-250
ON YOUR FARM!
DUAL 3-POINT LINKAGE: You can
use either No. 1 or No. 2 3-point
linkage implements simply by reversing
the linkage arms. DIFFERENTIAL LOCK:
Easy pedal operation locks "diff" when
needed greatly increases flotation in
soft spots and reduces wheel slip.
"LIVE" HYDRAULICS: Independent of
transmission clutch operation. DISC
BRAKES: Much easier to apply, are
smoother, firmer and make turning
easier.
SEE YOUR LOCAL IH DEALER NOW!
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
International Harvester
of Australia Pty. Ltd. District Sales Offices in Capital Cities. Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria
with great attention to their legal
content, with special emphasis on
the step-by-step approach of
traditional diplomacy. But while
we have been addressing the
Soviets, they have been speaking
to the people of the world. With
a few exceptions we have not
.succeeded in dramatising our
position, in reducing a complex
negotiation to its symbolic terms.
In major areas of the world the
Soviets have captured the ‘peace
offensive’ by dint of endless
repetition of slogans that seemed
preposterous when first
advanced, but which have be-
come common currency through
usage.
“The Power which has added
150-million people to its orbit
by force has become the
champion of anti-colonialism;
the State which has developed
slave-labor as an integral part
of its economic system has
emerged in many parts of the
world as the champion of
human dignity.
“Neither regarding German
unity nor Korea nor the satellite
orbit have we succeeded in
mobilising world opinion. But
Formosa has become a symbol
of American intransigence and
our overseas air-bases, a token
of American aggressiveness. We
have replied to every Soviet
thrust like a pedantic professor
sure of his righteousness; but
the world is not moved by
legalistic phrases, at least in a
revolutionary period.
“This is not to say that nego-
tiation should be conceived as
mere propaganda; only that by
failing to cope adequately with
their psychological aspect we
have given the Soviets unneces-
sary opportunities.”
Collective Security
On “the present system of
alliances created by the United
States,” Kissinger suggests that
“most of the historic conditions
for coalitions no longer apply,
or apply in a different sense.”
Moreover, “our policies have
been inhibited by the notion of
collective security drawn from
the lessons of the 1930’5, when
a united front might have
deterred Hitler, and by our
historic bias in favor of federal
structures”:
“We base our coalitions on the
assumption that unless all allies
resist any aggression anywhere
no effective resistance is possible
at all. But this notion of collec-
tive security has the paradoxical
result of paralysing the partner
capable of resisting alone. For
Governments hard pressed to act
in areas of direct concern to
them cannot be brought to run
risks outside that area, so that
the effort to obtain Nato support
in Asia tends to undermine the
cohesiveness of Nato in Europe.
“The problems of our system
of alliances can be summed-up
under two headings: either the
alliances add little to our effec-
tive strength or they do not
reflect a common purpose, or
both. In such circumstances a
system of collective security
leads in fact to a dilution of
purpose and to an air of
unreality in which the existence
of an alliance, and not the
resolution behind it, is con-
sidered the guarantee of
security.”
Outside of alliances —in “un-
committed areas” Kissinger
considers that respect may be
more important than popularity:
“In its relations with the un-
committed, the United States
must develop not only a greater
compassion 'but also a greater
majesty. The picture of high
American officials scurrying to
all quarters of the globe to
inform themselves on each
crisis as it develops cannot but
make an impression of un-
certainty. The nervousness
exhibited in our reactions to
Soviet moves must oontrast
unfavorably with what appears
to *be the deliberate purposeful-
ness of the Soviets.
“Moreover, for understand-
able reasons, many of the un-
committed nations are eager to
preserve the peace at almost any
price. Because of what appears
to them as vacillation and un-
certainty, they choose in every
crisis to direct pressure against
us as the more malleable of the
two super-Powers. To the
degree that we can project a
greater sense of purpose, some
of these pressures may be
deflected on the Soviet bloc. A
revolution like Egypt’s or even
India’s cannot be managed by
understanding alone; it also
requires a readiness on our part
to bear the psychological burden
of difficult decisions.”
Leadership
On the basic problem—“the
adequacy of American attitudes
for dealing with the present
crisis” Kissinger concludes
that it is “above all a problem
of leadership”:
“For nations learn only by
experience; they ‘know’ only
when it is too late to act. But
statesmen must act as if their
intuition were already experi-
ence, as if their aspiration were
truth. The statesman is, there-
fore, like one of the heroes of
classical tragedy who has had
an intuition of the future, but
who cannot transmit it directly
to his fellow-men and who
cannot validate its ‘truth.’
“The statesman must be an
educator; he must bridge the
gap between a people’s experi-
ence and his vision, between its
tradition and its future. In this
task his possibilities are limited.
A statesman who too far out-
runs the experience of his people
will not be able to sell his
programme at home; witness
Wilson. A statesman who limits
his policy to the experience of
his people will doom himself to
sterility ; witness French policy
since World War I.”
The Challenge
U.S. leadership-groups, then
better prepared to deal
with “technical” and “economic”
problems than with “concep-
tual” and “political” issues—are
faced with Soviet leadership
trained in “the relationship
between political, military,
psychological and economic
factors, the insistence on finding
a conceptual basis for political
action, and * the need for
dominating a situation by flex-
ible tactics and inflexible
purpdse”:
“Against the Politbureau,
trained to think in general terms
and freed of problems of day-
to-day administration, we have
pitted leaders overwhelmed with
departmental duties and trained
to think that it was a cardinal
sin to transgress on another’s
field of specialisation. To our
leaders policy is a series of
discrete problems ; to the Soviet
leaders it is an aspect of a
continuing political process.
“As a result, the contest
between us and the Soviets has
had many of the attributes of
any contest between a profes-
sional and an amateur: even a
mediocre professional will
usually defeat an amateur, not
because the amateur does not
know what to do, but because
he cannot act sufficiently quickly
or consistently. Our leaders
have not lacked ability, but they
have had to learn while doing,
and this has imposed too great
a handicap.
“It would be wrong to be
too pessimistic. No one would
have believed when World War
II ended that the United States
would assume commitments on
such a world-wide scale. Our
shortcomings are imposing only
because of the magnitude of the
threat confronting us. More-
over, the performance of the
United States, for all its failings,
compares favorably with that of
the other nations of the non-
Soviet world.
“And while our history may
leave us not well enough pre-
pared to deal with tragedy, it
can teach us that great achieve-
ment does not result from a
quest for safety. Even so, our
task will remain psychologically
more complex than that of the
Soviets. As the strongest and
perhaps the most vital Power of
the free world we face the
challenge of demonstrating that
democracy is able to find the
moral certainty to act without
the support of fanaticism and to
run risks without a guarantee of
success.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Eden: “Our
[Great Britain’s] life depends on
our ability in brains, in skill, to
do better than our competitors in
world markets. There is no other
way by which we can live. We
cannot insulate British life from
world competition, and try to
build here some academic society
all at one level regardless of the
challenge of the world outside.”
Reginald Maudling, U.K.
Minister of Supply, on the
proposed free-market scheme
with Europe: “It is imperative
that we should recognise that, for
this country [Great Britain],
there is no safe and easy alter-
native. The choice for us is not
between risk and safety but
between risk and risk. For this
country, with our immense
dependence on overseas trade,
our small reserves and our inade-
quate home resources of raw
materials, all policies involve
risks. The problem is to choose
the policy that gives promise of
the greatest return for the
smallest risk.”
Mr. Eisenhower: “The evi-
dence leads me to find that Yugo-
slavia remains independent of
control by the Soviet Union, but.
in my opinion, there is a danger
that Yugoslavia will be unable
to maintain its independence.”
Robert Wagner, Mayor of
New York: “The only new
friend the United States has
gained in four years is the
Principality of Monaco; and
Grace Kelly deserves credit for
that, not John Foster Dulles.”
R. A. Butler: “We should not
forget that whilst one hundred
million people in Europe alone
have, since the war, been forcibly
absorbed into the Soviet bloc
and system, more than five times
that number in Asia and Africa
have been helped to nationhood
by British Governments of both
parties. It is our duty to our-
selves, to our friends, to the
cause of freedom, and to the
potential victims of Communist
blandishments everywhere, to
see that these facts are known,
and that the lie about British
‘imperialism’ is not half way
round the world before the truth
has got its boots on.”


wm.
is
m
:• V '
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a i\ h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
* State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4390-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St.. Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
- Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major 1 ’
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PAST THE CROSSROADS
AT the official dinner which
was held at the Memorial
Hall, Orange (N.S.W.); follow-
ing the first half of the Field
Day last year (on the Tuesday
night; then, as again this year,
the “day” was spread over
Tuesday and Wednesday), R. A.
Crossing, chairman of the field-
day committee, asked this
writer what he thought about it
all.
The question, perhaps, was
more polite than serious—as one
asks strangers what they think
about the weather, or Nasser, or.
the price of potatoes, with no
real thirst for information ; so it
is possible Mr. Crossing’s
politeness was abused.
It had been a long, hot day,
the speeches and dinner were
finished, and there had been an
abundance of beer. But, all that
given due value, this Orange
grazier gave one the impression
that he was keenly interested in
what anyone had to say on the
subject, and was willing to hear
criticism.
. At this distance one can only
hope that the opinions then
aired were tempered by a decent
deference, always due to the
practical man from the observer.
Anyway, aired they were, while
the dark, middle-aged chairman
smiled and waved to homing
diners, and listened like a rock.
A tidier version of these
opinions later appeared in The
Bulletin. The method,- if some-
times trying for listeners, has
clear advantages from the
writer’s point of view. Talk
long and enthusiastically enough
about something that interests
you and the friction polishes
ideas; they fall into line,
finally, like weary recruits.
The point is, I was enthusi-
The alarming increase
in foot-rot is causing
serious concern in
sheep-raising circles
and scientists are
redoubling their efforts
to devise ways and
means of successfully
combating the disease.
Years ago wide-spread
casualties occurred
amongst lambs which
had been marked and
tailed unhygienically
and science came to
the rescue with the
Elastrator Rubber
Ring. By using this
modern bloodless
method graziers are
considerably reducing
the losses which were
inevitable in the past.
astic. - Walking around in the
sun all day looking at farm-
machinery isn’t my own idea
of fun, but the scale and success
SECRETARY
of the Orange Field Day was
something to catch the imagina-
tion. Here was a country centre
putting on an annual event
which, in its own field, had
something of the prestige and
national importance of a Royal
Show; admitted, a restricted
field. But one which fits firmly
into the contemporary land-
scape.
The Orange Field Day, which
was sponsored by the local
branch of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion, was then four years old,
and had emerged as the most
important farm-machinery field-
day in the eastern States, perhaps
in Australia. At the same time,
it seemed likely that this surpris-
ing baby was growing too big
to handle.
Last Tuesday, when artist
Jack Lusby, Laurie Arthur of
The Bulletin advertising de-
partment and myself were pre-
sented to chairman Crossing on
H. Milthorpe’s property, The
Ranch, seven miles from Orange
on the Forbes road, where this
year’s Field Day was held, Mr.
Crossing reminded me of the
conversation. I had said that,
in my opinion, the Orange Field
Day had come to a sort of
crossroads; that henceforth it
would either grow substantially
or decline sharply.
“You might remember,” the
chairman said with quiet satis-
faction, “that 1 assured you then
that it wouldn’t fall away.”
Well, the evidence was all
around us. About 100 acres had
'been taken over for the show ;
there was an increase of 50 per
cent, in the exhibits; and
already one could see that there
was no noticeable decline: the
rows of parked cars and the
scattered crowds (a bunch over
there watching one kind of
demonstration; some distance
away, another bunch similarly
occupied); and men, and a good
sprinkling of women, just walk-
ing around.
As the day marched on, the
crowds and the cars increased.
Eight-thousand people turned-up
for the first day last year. The
official estimate for last Tuesday
was 15,000:
R. A. (Bob) Crossing is a
member of the family which
took up land early around
Broken Hill. Argullong, his
property south *of Orange, is
some 5000 acres. An invention
CHAIRMAN
of his, the Crossing shearing-
table, was on display among the
other exhibits. He told us he
had started working on it before
1950, and had installed the
tables in his own shed. Six
shearers had been using the
tables at the recent shearing.
We were standing near the
official tent, a small one, and
within a few minutes a number
of interesting personalities had
come within range of Lusby’s
pencil; they underline another
aspect of these machinery field-
days— apart from anything else,
these are places where people
meet. All very pleasant and
informal.
Not long before, from the
platform of a truck parked a
few feet away, under a tree,
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
Graham (sketched in full voice
by Lusby) had declared (he
show open, and distributed the
“new implement” certificates and
pennants. Chairman Crossing,
secretary Ratcliffe and local
member C. B. Cutler occupied
the rest of the platform.
Speeches were short, and to the
point.
Charles Benjamin Cutler,
Country party, M.L.A. for
Orange since 1947, was born at
Forbes and educated at Orange.
Served with the 2/17th Bn.,
A.1.F., in the Middle East and
Pacific, was commissiohed, and
came to Orange to become
business manager of the
Producers’ Distributing Society.
G. J. Ratcliffe took-over as
secretary ‘"for this year’s Field
Day, and has made a fine job
of it. He’s been with local
radio-station 2GZ for some time
(present position station-
manager), and was with 26
Brigade, Ninth Divvy.
H. H. Jackson, of Stirling,
along the Molong road, was the
first chairman of the Orange
Field Day committee. A sub-
altern in the 2nd Bn., he settled
in the Orange district after the
war, and has made his mark in
local affairs. Sketched about the
same time by Lusby, H. C.
Williams, chairman of the
Orange branch of the Graziers’
FIRST CHAIRMAN
Association, and M. Ryrie,
secretary.
Most of those interviewed so
far had been graziers. But
Orange, on the N.S.W. western
slopes, less than 200 miles from
Sydney, is not only in a central
position geographically, but has
a remarkably well-balanced
agricultural economy: a bit of
everything.
Of the orchardists, W. B. (Bill)
Pascoe must be as well known
as any. Fifteen years president
of the Orange Show Society,
chairman of directors of the
Orange Producers’ Rural Co-op.
Society, vice-chairman of the
Western Group of Agricultural
Societies, on the Western Agri-
cultural Advisory Council, and
a former Federal president of the
Apple and Pear Board.
Among those from further
afield, Alan Sergeant, manager
of Belabula Farms, Canowindra,
where some very important
research into the feeding of
cattle has been going on. And,
walking‘with him, taking photo-
graphs of machinery, Albert
Henry Willis, Professor of
Mechanical Engineering at the
Sydney University of
Technology.
An Englishman, born at
Portsmouth and educated at
King’s College, London Uni-
versity (he went back to Ports-
mouth to work at H.M. Dock-
yard, and was later a lecturer at
King’s College), Professor
Willis is the right side of 40.
As sketched, with his hat on,
he looks rather younger than he
did when he spoke at this year’s
dinner, at the Occidental Hotel.
As he rose to speak there was
an approving murmur, “He’s a
critical bloke, this.”
Some of the things he said
were critical, and were taken in


THE SECRET OF SUCCESS IS
the right drench at the
right time
m
'
m
m
■
COOPAZINE
LIQUID
SUPERFINE
PHENOTHIAZINE
WORM DRENCH
Available in liquid, powder or
tablet form, Coopazine will giro
a maximum kill of—
• NODULE WORMS
• BLACK SCOUR WORMS
• STOMACH WORMS
• LARGE-MOUTHED
BOWEL WORMS
From all Cooper Agents
WILLIAM COOPER & NEPHEWS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
YOU ARE SAFE WITH COOPER’S
CHM 4
The famous
So I ingen knives
5JK£*
Ys
4
Y
m
4
Y
A*.
Mm
WBY 3iMoa
Wf
• The Bowie knife is of the
original design made by Colonel
Bowie ' during the Indian fighting
days of U.S.A. Strong, rugged
and a beautiful blade perfectly
weighted. Staghorn handle.
Fringed leather sheaths. Length
12 inches. Price 75/-. Post free.
• The Stag Hunting Knife, Eagle’s head pommel, staghorn handle,
blade etched in three colours. Leather sheath.
Price 50/-. Post free.
• The Rhine Maiden Hunting Knife, with hammer-forged blade.
Splendid balance. Beautifully sculptured metal handle, gold finished.
Length lOf in. with metal-tipped dress sheath. Price 50/-. Posted.
• The famous Black Forest Hunting Knife with metal tipped dress
sheath. Price 45/-. Post free.
• Also the TORCH KNIFE. Pre-focused torch in handle.
Price 65/-. Post free.
ALL C.O.D. CHARGES ARE EXTRA
RIP OUT AND POST,
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS, Box 7051, G.P.0., Sydney. B 21/11
Please Supply
For which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
283 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. PHONE: BM 3102
BILL PASCOE
CUTLER, Member
STEVE PERRY
PAT BUTTSWORTH
good part by the predomin-
antly commercial guests —repre-
sentatives of machinery-firms,
big and small, agents, and the
like. Independent, scientifically-
based criticism can be very
healthy.
Professor Willis suggested in
passing that something might
well be done to encourage the
smaller manufacturers to
develop machinery suited to
local land conditions; presum-
ably he had in mind a subsidy,
or some other form of Govern-
ment assistance. If so, the idea
seems a good one. When one
looks into it, a great deal of our
farm-machinery was developed
fo • oversea conditions; and
sometimes, as was the case with
the buckrake, there is a con-
siderable time-lag before the
best of it becomes available here.
Which brings us to what was,
in this writer’s opinion, the most
interesting aspect of this year’s
Field Day: the “new implement”
awards.
These amount to an endorse-
ment by the committed, through
a panel of independent judges,
of new implements. So far as
this writer knows, until the
Orange people took it up, no
such impartial body prepared
to test and endorse a variety of
new machines existed in Aus-
tralia. It Is as yet in its infancy ;
but, if it gets a firm hold, the
"Grandfather’s always talking
about them.”
value of the scheme for both
buyer and manufacturer is
obvious.
For that reason, it is worth
while inspecting the require-
ments more closely. Entries, it
was stated some time back, must
be complete machines with
definite application “to agri-
culture, horticulture or other
forms of primary-production or
pastoral pursuits” which either:
(a) fulfil some purpose of value for
which no machine or appliance has
been available hithefto; or
( b ) must embody, with con-
sequent advantage, some new
principle of working.
Such machines must be avail-
able on the Australian market
through normal retail channels,
and “mere changes of design,
construction or arrangement
which do not involve any new
working principle” would not be
considered.
Three awards were made: to
E. A. Buttsworth, for a wheel-
type hydraulic earthseoop; to
Lanz Australia Pty., Ltd., for a
block high-pressure hydraulic
system; and to Steve Perry
Manufacturing Pty., Ltd., for a
hammered-chaff feeder.
The Lanz concern needs no
introduction, anywhere. The
award-winning system was
designed for “variable speed lift
and drop, automatic locking and
overload release devices.” But
both Pat Buttsworth and Steve
Perry come within the category
of small manufacturers. The
essence of the Buttsworth imple-
ment is that one man can
manage the tripping. In the
Perry self-feeder, a central panel
swung on hinges runs the length
of the feeder; feeding sheep
nudge the panel, bringing the
feed tumbling down from the
other side, thereby preventing
clogging or binding, a chronic
problem in the feeding of
hammered-chaff.
Steve Perry, incidentally, is ex-
Indian Army. He served in
Slim’s 17th Indian Division,
came to Australia in 1946, and
three years later started a manu-
facturing business in the small
western N. S. Wales town of
(Continued on next page)


FOR SPEED AND SERVICE „ . .
i
\ ■ «*» . , ■:
«s .1 >«-
p*
F®** »*»» 4'i -- A :
mmmm
mmm
WILHELMSEN LINE
Regular service to the Middle East, the Continent and
Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space available.
Limited first-class passenger accommodation available
in double- or single-deck cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated Cargo Vessels
from Australia to U.S. and Canadian Atlantic Coast
Ports, and Trinidad via Panama Canal. Vessels carry
a limited number of passengers in saloon accommo-
dation.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese ports
—returning via New Guinea and Island Ports. Regular
sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros and Citos with general
and refrigerated space available ; also special mechanical
ventilation for fruit, vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in single- or
two-berth cabins.
For further details, concerning all of the above services, contact , , . .
WILH. WILHELMSEN AGENCY PTY. LTD.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney; 51 William Street, Melbourne
SHORT-CUT POLAR ROUTE TO EUROPE!
Next time you fly to Europe fly the modern SAS
Short-Cut Polar Route from Los Angeles to
Copenhagen. Mighty DC-7C Global Express airliners.
“Royal Viking” First Class and “Globetrotter” Tourist
Class with new comfort line seating. Five flights per
week to and from Europe.
qualified
to provide o
better service
m.
&
WOOLBROKERS
STOCK SALESMEN
N.Z.L. provides the world-wide
organisation, the network of
branches and agent* throughout
the State, the skill formed by
year* of experience—which are
needed to sell v your stock and
wool well. Contact your local
N.Z.L. branch or agency soon.
New Zealand Loan
& Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
(Incorporated in England)
38 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Phonet BU 5141.
And Branches throughout N.S.W.
Narromine, making silos, feed-
ing-equipment and the like. He’s
a cheerful 61. The new feeder
will be manufactured and distri-
buted by Dangar, Gedye and
Malloch.
A number of entries for the
award came in too late for the
thorough testing required by the
rules. And, whether entered in
this section or not, a number of
new implements were shown at
ALAN SERGEANT
RYRIE, C.O. Entertainments .
Orange, together with the
customary range of tractors,
cultivating implements and the
like.
Most spectacular display was
the radio-controlled Ferguson
tractor. A man in white overalls
fiddled with a control-panel, and
the tractor went through its
paces without benefit of driver.
This is a purely experimental
GRAZIERS’ PRESIDENT
project, not available on the
general market. Still, it opens
up attractive fields of thought. ..
The comparative demonstra-
tions are the heart of machinery
field-days. The fact that manu-
facturers and distributors co-
operate, lining-up their machines
against the opposition, is itself
a most encouraging sign. But,
after all, this attitude simply
means that sellers give buyers
credit for commonsense. Condi-
tions vary enormously ; and
individual skill of operators
makes a difference, too.
On Wednesday morning, when
PROFESSOR
a team of tractors was busy bull-
dozing trees and logs in one of
the paddocks, the crawler types
had the best of the local condi-
tions. Under the green, the
ground shook like a bog. But,
one imagines, anyone watching
took these factors into account.
Four makes of shearing-table
were lined-up, with sheep and
shearers, and the crowd around
them was so thick it was hard to
get a good view. The demonstra-
tion would have been better if
the crowd had been kept back
a certain distance by a rope
or rail. But one could see the
shorn sheep coming out: here
again, individual skill made .a
big difference.
Shearing - tables are new
enough to attract a lot of
"On behalf of the Govern-
ment...”
interest. Tables, of course, have
been used in the Old World for
a great many years, but they
were ordinary kitchen-tables.
These have varying refinements,
but the basic principles seem' to
be mobility and the clipping-
attachments to hold the sheep’s
legs.
A demonstrator who had
served his time as a shearer
reckoned the tables cut the
physical effort of shearing by
50 per cent. Obviously, they save


HOMESTEADS-
any Plan, any Layout,
Single or Two-storey
Plan with
BO WAS
for
★ Homesteads
★ Country
Cottages
★ Managers'
Residences
★ Overseers'
Quarters
★ Shearers and
Station
Accommoda-
tion Buildings
to your design
Bowas homesteads and country cottages
are of good appearance and are solid,
permanent structures unaffected by white
ants or dry rot.
Bowas buildings are easily erected with
the simplicity of timber frame construc-
tion—yet have the strength and durability
of steel, due to the patented Bowas steel-
wood-steel structural member of heavy
gauge steel and dressed cypress.
These members are precision cut for ease
of assembly by bolting—but all walls, both
inside and out, flooring and roofing are
nailed on as in timber frame construction.
Plan for a Bowas better-looking, sounder,
easier-to-build homestead or cottage —our
architects will design any plan, single or
two-storey, to meet your wishes.
bowas constructions ltd.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim Buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
NOTHING EQUALS
I WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY I
warm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
»
Owing ft fuel sating the "Warmraj" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
® ;
mm
i
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super
De line
it L«ge Capacity Orer
8,000 ea. ft
it Special large firebox for
long horning without
attention.
it Extra large hotplate hr
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OP PRIOR
WARM RAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tabes (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even waiiuth hi every part of
the room.
' BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores , Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Mawtaetnrers and Wholesale Distributors,
Cfcallis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray,” 8L5217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
the back. But he claimed elimina-
tion of the need for gripping the
sheep made a big difference, too.
Not all shearers take to them.
My informant said that part of
the trouble was that a man
using them for the first time is
tense; relaxation comes with
familiarity.
The man with a small flock
seems most likely to be
interested in the tables at present.
It gives him a degree of
independence, in time of need,
and in the meantime can save
him heavy work at crutching,
shearing rams, and such chores.
If the big sheds take up the
tables o any extent, it is prob-
able that teams of shearers will
operate very like canecutters . . .
For the rest, the Orange Field
Day was a great success. A
review of the exhibits would be
like attempting to summarise an
industry, and would of necessity
be a mere catalogue. Everything
there that the man-on-the-land
and his wife might possibly
think of buying, and lovely
weather: something between a
market and a picnic, in a
countryside drenched in color.
City Australians forget how
much color there is in the
country. The blues and greens
and gold of the landscape,
splashed with the reds and greys
and silver of metal, and the
smaller festivity of women’s
frocks. One wonders what
Streeton would have made of
such scenes—something of the
vigor of his style of painting
seems necessary to put these
things on permanent record.
The Orange Field Day seems
likely to go from strength to
strength.
J.F.
RAINMAKING POSSIBILITIES
THERE is new hope in the
offing for the arid areas of
the world as a result of
improving techniques in rain-
making, though the Australian
scientists who have largely
pioneered these developments
insist that controlled experi-
ments must continue for some
time yet. Their fear is a rush
of commercial exploiters anxious
to cash-in in a way which could
harm landowners and the
national interest.
The general picture will be
clearer when present experiments
over the Snowy Mountains are
completed. Involving much
hazardous flying, skilled planning
and prolonged checking of
results, these appear to show an
increase in precipitation over the
target-area of some 25 per cent.,
worth perhaps from ten to a
hundred times their cost. Tests
in one of the marginal areas, near
the lOin.-rainfall belt, may
follow soon.
The task during the last nine
years has been one of the func-
tions of the Division of Radio-
physics of C.5.1.R.0., with head-
quarters at Sydney University.
The R.A.A.F. has co-operated.
One offshoot has been a theory
of the effect of meteoric dust on
rainfall throughout the world in
specific days of each year—not
welcomed at first by conserva-
tive meteorologists but now
securing increasing acceptance.
Further study of the general
data being assembled by chief
of the Radiophysics Division Dr.
E. G. Bowen and his staff may
lead to revision of methods of
rainmaking. At the very least it
should lead to more" accurate
weather-forecasting.
In some parts of the world,
especially in the United States,
“rainmaking” has suffered from
commercial operators working
independently and without check
or control. The Australian pro-
gramme has been better handled.
Study began in 1947 on the
properties of single clouds, pro-
gressed to trials of “seeding”
clouds with pellets of dry-ice, and
led to gradual realisation of the
important role in the atmosphere
played by naturally-occurring,
dustlike particles known as
nuclei.
In some cases these were salt
crystals carried up from the
oceans, in others they were
“dust.” There is now some
understanding of how, under
appropriate conditions, indi-
vidual clouds can be made to
rain by supplying substitutes
when natural nuclei are absent or
ineffective. In practice, the best
substitute so far is silver iodide,
burnt in chemical generators in
the wings of planes flying near
the freezing-level or just below
the base of “super-cooled”
clouds.
The experiments have shown
that “warm” clouds, too, can
be used to precipitate rain, but
that, although rain is fairly
easily stimulated from single
“warm” cloudS, this method is
unlikely to prove an economic
proposition for modifying rain-
fall over an area.
American experiments with
silver-iodide smoke from ground-
level have been followed by
claims of success, but trials on
the same lines in Australia have
demonstrated that the smoke
does not rise to the necessary
level, and that in rising .it loses
much of its ability to form ice-
nuclei.
Best chances, therefore, seem
to be with aircraft equipped with
burners. In such cases the smoke ,
is likely to remain in and around
“super-cooled” clouds for a
considerable time, thus affording
comparatively economical use.
In addition, the planes can be
used to take measurements of
cloud-droplets for the programme
of patient examination which is
in constant progress.
The experiments over the
Snowy Mountains, made in co-
operation with the Snowy
Mountains Authority, have been
with such planes, and the results
are still being compiled and
assessed. Mr. Higgs says,
cautiously, that the results to
date have been “distinctly
promising.”
The significance of the
recordings, however, cannot be
fully assessed from such a brief
trial-period, partly because the
season in which the tests began
was an abnormally wet one over
the whole of N.S.W.; but
indications are that the target-
area received substantially more
rain (about 25 per cent.) during
the seeded periods than those
when no seeding was done.
During the present season a
Dakota has been used as well as
an Anson —both operating from
Wagga aerodrome —and flying-
conditions have often been
extraordinarily difficult. More
navigational aids are essential
in the area, the most rugged
in Australia, and one useful
beacon is now being installed on
Mt. Stanley, near Beechwood.
Others are planned. Their in-
stallation will give many of the
division’s executives better sleep
at night.
If the results continue good,
then plans will probably be
made for tests elsewhere in
Australia. At the same time the
Snowy Mountains Authority
may decide on seeding over the
{Continued, on next page)
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/11/’56)
Most of Queensland should receive general rains
during December, heaviest on the northern coast and •
Peninsula and part of the southern coast. Heavy rains are
likely in the coastal areas during January, but rainfall may
be patchy in the western division until March.
Apart from moderate falls on portion of the Riverina
and south-west, fairly heavy general rains should occur in
N.S.W. during December, with the heaviest falls on the
coast (central and south) and the tablelands.
In Victoria moderate rain should fall in the east-central,
Gippsland and lower north-east during December, patchy
elsewhere in the State. Good rains should occur during the
first quarter of 1957.
With the exception of light rain in the south-east and
west-coast areas, general rains above normal should occur
in S.A. during December, being heaviest in the interior and
in Central Australia.
Apart from good falls in the Kimberleys, Fortescue and
De Grey, rainfall is likely to be poor in W.A. during
December, and January is likely to be a poor month
throughout.
LENNOX WALKER.


WENOVIS’ — Brand of PhenctMazine
m
$3 9.
PAYS A
DIVIDEND
TRADE MARK
/
tom®
pnggsfc.zsammamat
mMMs
mm
v|r' r/ ' i
mm
mmm.
Mim
m
m
mm
: Sft
: :
H : ■
.
&
Jlllllll^llll
I
Ifei^Mllsi
:': ■: ,
s
ms
, ::■
ni
3* %'
l
mm,
mik
CHECK f worms in sheep with ‘Phenovis’ — and increase the return from
each of your flock.
Phenothiazine Drenches are the most effective . . * most economical used
by Australian graziers — cost only 1/3 per sheep per year!
The New Superfine Quality
PHENoVIS
SHEEP DRENCH
Insist upon the Superfine
' — from your usual supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
1C
mm mjjmini
OF - AUSTRAUA &~NEW ZEALAND^LTd!
1514. FHE.58X.4010
THE “WILD CAT’
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. •• • • 2/r
Yearly a*. 2 2L6
whole of its vast area, to expedite
the filling of the huge dams in
the interlinked scheme, and later
to ensure replenishment of
storages.
Meantime the division is
eagerly awaiting the rainfall-
records for next January, as a
further link in the meteoric-dust
theory. Dr. Bowen pointed out
in a recent article in “Nature”
that, for a proper assessment of
the role of freezing nuclei in the
development of rain, measure-
ments are needed in many parts
of the world. “These are just
beginning to be made on a
routine basis,” he says, “and
they already point to a further
intriguing possibility—that the
sudden changes occur at almost
identical times in different parts
of the world.”
Quoting from the records of
several countries, he shows there
are rainfall peaks within a few
days of each other, although in
some countries it is winter and
in others summer. “The close
relationship between the January
rainfall of widely separated
regions... .is not in accord with
conventional meteorological
ideas.. . .The clues are clear-
cut—tb® effect appears to be one
which occurs almost simultane-
ously over the globe, which sug-
gests an extra-terrestrial pheno-
menon ; and- it takes place on
particular calendar dates, which
suggests an association with
meteor showers.”
Dr. Bowen points out that the
earth in its orbit passes at
regular dates each year through
streams of meteoric dust which
exist in vast elliptical orbits
around the sun. The large par-
ticles bum-up on entering the
atmosphere and appear as
visible meteors ; the smaller ones
fall slowly to the lower atmos-
phere. “It may be significant,”
he says, “that there are three
prominent meteor showers about
thirty days before the rainfall
peaks in January, namely the
Gemindids of December 13, the
Ursids of December 22 and the
Quadrantids of January 3. It
appears, therefore, that the rain-
fall peaks might occur about a
month after the meteor showers.”
He admits there are several
aspects of the hypothesis that
this dust nucleates the cloud-
systems of the lower atmosphere
(and thus causes exceptionally
heavy falls of rain around the
dates of January 13, 22 and 30)
which are difficult to accept.
Why, he asks, should meteoric
dust be so active as a nucleating
agent? Why does the time of
fall appear to be so consistent
from one shower to the next?
And why is the effect on rainfall
confined to such a few days?
He agrees that these questions
are not yet answered, but sug-
gests strongly that there is
already enough evidence about
the reality of the effect to call
for “a thorough investigation of
the physics of the phenomenon
and a careful assessment of its
impact on the day-to-day pro-
blems of meteorology.”
This, of course, is a somewhat
dramatic sideline of the serious
business of rainmaking. The
division has been reminded
recently of some of the serious
implications by complaints that
the exceptionally heavy snow on
Kosciusko this year caused a
fatal avalanche for the first time
in history, and by terse sugges-
tions from Wagga and elsewhere
that its activities caused the
devastating floods. It disclaims
responsibility for the .Kosciusko
snow, while admitting that it
may have increased the precipi-
tation to some extent, and it
denies completely any association
with the floods. It says that on
the few occasions that “seeding”
occurred before the floods began,
practically none of the rain
believed to have resulted could
have found its way into the
Murrumbidgee.
These murmurs may be a
foretaste only of what may
happen if and when rainmaking
becomes fully effective in all
parts of the continent and econo-
mically practicable in some por-
tions. By that time the division
“Say ‘ When '!”
will have completed its job of
research and experiment It will
leave the developmental and
legal problems to commercial
interests and to Governments.
CHARLES MEEKING.
Kikuyu
“Myall”: Kik u y u-g ras s,
another introduction from Africa
(its home is Eritrea, in the north-
east), has turned thousands of
acres of land that wouldn’t feed
a bandicoot into valuable
pastures in many districts of
Queensland and N. S. Wales.
A vigorous perennial of creep-
ing habit, sending out long
runners both on the surface and
underground (these root at the
nodes, and so the grass spreads
quickly), kikuyu can withstand
heavy frosts, and even snow,
because of this subterranean
growth: although the flag is
burnt, the plant" comes away
quickly as soon as the warm
weather arrives.
The leaves are flat, soft and
slightly hairy, and are relished
by all classes of stock. Milking
cows, grazed on the grass, hold
their production.
Except in a few localities (one
is Tamborine Mountain, South
Queensland) the grass does not
set seed in Australia. The seed
is very small, and is not available
. in commercial quantities.
The grass is propagated by
runners, each having two or three
nodes, and these should be
planted in drills about Sin. deep
and 3ft. apart, a cutting being
laid horizontally every 3ft. in the
drill. Planted in early spring,
the grass will spread rapidly, and
will soon cover the ground with
a dense mass of herbage.
Kikuyu will smother most
weeds, and has been known to
choke-out lantana in a couple of
years. The long runners will
climb over small shrubs, logs
and fences, taking root again as
soon as they reach the ground on
the other side. The grass is an
excellent soil-binder, and is
useful for controlling erosion
on banks of rivers and dams. On
the Blackall Range, in South
Queensland, it is grown to hold
the soil on the mountain slopes,
thus preventing landslides.
It should be kept out of culti-
vations —once it gets a hold it’s
very difficult to eradicate.
Kikuyu is a good lawn-grass,
making a fine, soft, springy
turf. It grows much faster than
buffalo, keeps a better color in
the summer months, and does not
easily brown-off in the winter.
It should be kept well mowed.
Its running habit makes it
rather difficult to control. If
a shallow trench about 6in. wide
is made along the edge of the
beds, and coarse salt placed in
every three months, the grass
will fee kept from spreading.
Buffel-grass
“B.”: Queensland soils seem
to suit buffel-grass, and returns
may be trebled on some holdings
by establishing buffel.
Departmental agrostofogist S.
Marriott advises that four
different types are available —
Gayndah, Type D, Western
Australian type and Cloncurry
strain. Best for the under-20in.-
rainfall areas are Gayndah, Clon-
curry and Westralian,
As there are some isolated
localities where buffel-grass will
not thrive, Marriott advises
small test-plots when the grass
has been taken into a new
district. To establish these plots,
put down small areas of three or
four varieties to see which gives
the best response.
Next step is to set up a small
seed-plot of five, 10, or 20 acres.
This will provide the seed needed
for large-scale plantings. Using
a home-made harvester on a
truck, seed can be harvested for
as little as Is. per lb.
For wide distribution, some
form of soil-disturbance is
necessary. *ln heavy - scrub
country, ash from burnt scrub
is ideal for aerial sowing. On
harder land, cultivation, planting
in strips, and relying on natural
spread, seem best for firm
establishment.
Fire Risk
“Greta”: Complacency con-
cerning bushfire danger is never
justified, but it is interesting to
hear the theory that -the actual
risk when there is abundant
cover in a year like this is lower
—not higher—than when the dry
grass is thinner.
It is based on the claim that
heavy roughage tends to reduce
wind-velocity at pasture-level;
plenty of cover keeps the air
cooler and the earth damper at
soil-level; damp, rotting grass
does not burn as quickly as a
thin open sward; and, most
important of all, people are
more fire-conscious than ever
after a good season.
The last, if the theory is
generally' accepted, seems to
cancel itself. Anyway, it’s as
well to be as careful this year as
in any other. And if your
property is burnt-out it’s no
great comfort to know that,
statistically, it was a good
season.
Ram Management
“Lucerno”: Poor working-
conditions for rams can cause
serious lowering of lambing-
percentages. Rams are relatively
ineffective during heat-waves;
while on poor-quality feed;
immediately after being dipped
in arsenical solutions; and when
their body-temperatures are high
because of fly-strike, foot-rot,
foot-abscess and mild pneu-
monia.
For best results at mating, use
2} to 3 per cent, of rams ; replace
about one in four rams annually
with two-tooths; and keep a
sort of tactical reserve say,
one-third —which should not be
used until about three weeks
after the others have been
joined.
Cull rams . with abnormal
testicles, and remember that high
temperatures cause temporary
infertility. Don’t overdrive rams
in the heat of the day, and use
motor-transport for long jour-
neys. Take delivery of new
rams well before joining
them, to give them a good chance
of getting used to their new
environment.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
4nap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
Guide Dogs and Public Transport
A young man in an N. S. Wales country
town was blinded in an accident. Plople
of the town and district raised the money
to pay the air-fare for him and his dog
to Perth, which has the only training-
centre for guide-dogs in the Common-
wealth. These generous subscribers also
paid the fees and expenses for man and.
dog during their course, which lasts
several months.
Applicants’ own dogs are seldom a
success, but this one proved an excep-
tion. Soon she was leading her master
about Perth, where guide-dogs are
allowed on all forms of public transport,
and his morale received the wonderful
lift that comes from ceasing to be
dependent on other people. They travelled
back by air, the dog sitting beside her
boss, and the hostess took them for
walks at each stop.
Now they are back in their home-town,
which is proud of them both. The boy,
who previously could not go to the
corner-shop unless someone took him,
wanders for miles about the town and
surrounding country, drops in for a
beer, visits his friends and may not
return home till late at night. His family
know they need not worry.
There are two things wrong; One is
that he has not been able to get a regular
job. The Ford Company and others in
the U.S.A. learned long ago that blinded
persons can be useful, employees. It has
been found that, on the average, their
concentration is better than that of
sighted people; they are more interested
in their jobs and far less anxious to chop
and change them. This more than com-
pensates for minor mechanical adjust-
ments which, in some occupations, have
to be made for their benefit. But few
employers in Australia have learnt this
lesson.
Even supposing jobs were< available,
this young man would still be up against
his second problem. He would have to
travel to work by public transport, and
in N.S.W. he would not be allowed to
take his dog. He has appealed unsuccess-
fully to every conceivable authority for
the necessary permission.
The authorities apparently believe that
the granting of permission would create
a dangerous precedent. But would it?
I know that many owners have no idea
of training or controlling a dog, but
guide-dogs cannot graduate until they
are better behaved than many humans.
Their owners have to demonstrate that
they have learnt to handle them
efficiently, or they are not permitted to
have dogs. They could, of course, cause
complications in city peak-hours, but no
blinded person would attempt to travel
at such times.
The number of employable blind is
not large, and smaller still is the number
who can afford guide-dogs, which,
because of their long training, are expen-
sive. So I cannot see that the interests
of the travelling public would suffer. At
least there are no complaints in Perth. —
Margaret Lorraine (N.S.W.).
Land-tax
Why does “Cave” (B. 31/10/’56) want
residential property of up to £lOOO u.c.v.
exempted from the “generally obnoxious
land-tax?
I don’t like land-tax, but when applied
only to land producing national income
the tax becomes economic suicide. If
it is inflicted on the country, however,
there is no moral argument from exempt-
ing one section of the community from
its provisions.
Only when the whole community is
affected will it make a determined effort
to resist,- —J. J. A. (Vic.).
Transport
It’s all very well having the N. S. Wales
Auditor-General as a watchdog to bark
a warning on misuse of public funds /B.
17/10/’56), but. where is it getting us?
Surely the need today is not so much
for a warning bark as for an authorita-
tive statement by somebody, independent
alike of votes or vested interests, on
what is wrong with our economy and
what we can do about it.
Where’s the profit in being told year
after year that our trams and buses don’t
pay? Do the services in London or
New York or Paris do so much better?
The city of Lansing (U.S.A.) has just
announced that its bus-company is closing
down, and that trend is world-wide. The
reason? London puts it down to “more
cars, motorised bicycles and television
sets,” and the world over it is becoming
axiomatic that a high ownership of
private transport inevitably means a loss
on the public variety.
What to do about it? The first thing
would appear to be to look at the matter
realistically, realise that these losses are
inevitable and start from there. Even
then we haven’t much choice. We can
carry on as we’re doing and keep trying
to make income equal outgo until we
succeed in pricing the business right out
of reach. Alternatively, we can treat
the loss as a subsidy aimed at keeping
down fares (the world’s civil-aviation
business has always used this method)
and try to encourage some of the
motorists to leave their cars at home,
thus reducing conjgestion. What else is
therg?
Similarly with the railways—they don’t
pay, they never have paid, and obviously
there’s nothing anybody can do which
will make them pay. So where’s the sense
in having the A.-G. bark about their
affairs every year? If any individual is
to be enabled to set up as a carrier in
competition with the railways, his interests
protected by the Privy Council and his
responsibilities virtually nil, the railway,
which is cursed with several responsi-
bilities, must go to the wall.
That is largely up to the taxpayer. If
he wants it that way, well and good—
so long as he is prepared to pay for his
fancy. I’m not discounting the effects of
intransigent labor or inept political
control —they play an important part, but
less important than is commonly
suggested. In any case, they, too, are up
to the taxpayer. If he won’t help himself
I don’t know who is going to help him.
—Transporticus (Singapore).
Child-endowment
Child-endowment is one of the most
misused of Government grants. Very
few parents are willing to let it accumu-
late over the 16 payable years in a long-
range plan to help a child to further
schooling, or ease the lean years of
apprenticeship.
“Endowment-day” is popular with
retailers, and all sorts of irrelevant
merchandise are labelled “Endowment
Special.” Phones are installed on the
strength of child-endowment; expensive
toys are bought with it; and even charit-
able organisations plan street-stalls and
badge-days to coincide with it. Credit-
managers and family grocers know that
arrears will be partly if not fully met on
this day.
No child today would go hungry,
unclothed or uneducated if there were no
child-endowment. But if the child was to
have been the beneficiary from endow-
ment then he has been cheated. —M. C. M.
(Q-).
Wireless-licences
It is interesting to learn (B. 7/11/’56)
that the Commonwealth’s power to
impose licence-fees has been already
decided in the High Court. It would
also be interesting to know on what
grounds the power was upheld.
As to interpreting Australia’s founding
document in a pedantic or rigid way,
those are about the only ways in which a
written legal document can be interpreted
—our Constitution has been, amended
on different occasions to cover much less
doubtful points than wireless-licence fees.
How can the Government maintain its
right to enter into the broadcast-
entertainment business by virtue of some
Constitutional power when, at the time
the Constitution was drafted, wireless-
telephony and TV were unthought-of?
If the use of wireless only for the trans-
mission of telegrams and other postal
messages, was involved, there would seem
to be no argument. It is the Govern-
ment’s entry into the entertainment
business with all its ramifications, and the
imposition of a licence-fee on anyone
who happens to own a receiving-set, that
raises the point of legality.— Ceg (Vic.).
Taxation
“Tackline S.” (B. 17/10/’56), who gave
the Taxation Department two cheques
for the one assessment, was pretty slow.
When he got a receipt for the second
cheque, why didn’t he stop payment of
the first one? — Morry (S.A.).
Late Closing
My experience of 10-o’clock closing
has been the reverse of that quoted in
B. 17/10/’56. Most of the critics visit
hotels between 7.30 and 10 p.m. and pick
out the inevitable few who overdo it.
What do they think these people did
before 10-o’clock came in? They took
home beer in dozens or “niners.”
I know several publicans on the Vic-
torian side of the Murray whose bottle-
sales have declined so much that they
complain they are not making a decent
profit—the customers drive over the river
and drink draught beer in comfortable
surroundings. Hence the increase in
N.S.W. trade.
As for the “six-o’clock swill,” take a
look at Albury. The swill practically
vanished overnight there. —P. C. M. (Vic.).
War Medals
“Hist’s” idea of posting unclaimed
war-medals to the last known addresses of
ex-members (B. 31 /10/’56) would mainly
benefit the P.M.G. —as well as in-
creased postal charges, each package
would cost an extra Is. 3d. for registra-
tion. And most of the medals would be
shunted more-or-less aimlessly around the
country and then returned unclaimed,
because the latest addresses available are
those recorded at the time of the war-
gratuity payments back in March, 1951.
For the 1914-18 medals distribution,
forms requesting a forwarding address
were sent to the addresses in members’
personal dossiers. Many of these forms
never found a home. Many did, but
thousands of engraved medals subse-
quently dispatched to the addresses
nominated were undeliverable. These
medals are still held in trust for the
members concerned, presumably dis-
turbed only once a year for audit pur-
poses. They were expensive by 1939-45
standards, too —the British War Medal of
silver is worth 16s. lid. and the others
have a replacement value of about 6s.
The authorities are correct in their
present attitude. They merely require a
member’s name, number and current
address. To provide this information
would cost each claimant a fourpenny
stamp and less than five minutes. The
authorities make the assessment of entitle-
ment, arrange engraving and even spray
the medals with lacquer to prevent
tarnishing and eliminate the need for
polishing.—
KEMBERRY (A.C.T.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 409
Across
I—A Victorian river goes to do an
alligator-pear. (7)
5 —A mountain-body is reshaped by
one Australian famous for his
activity in 9-across. (3, 4)
8— Where Sydney barrackers may
gather in the seed for the first
Governor. (7)
9 Blubbering Henry is held by the
wing. (7)
11— Sydney’s Royal Show is run by
this Abyssinian vjzier. (3)
12— Corner held by the steamer in
singles.. (5)
13— Handclap pal drops a check of
the books. (7)
15 — Make a gift because Bradman
didn’t go hungry. (6)
16 — Who gets rid of Diana’s
problem? (8)
19 — It supports but a lock of hair.
(8)
20— Returns to show this batting
business to me. (6)
23 —Naiad is certainly like this State.
(7)
25 Meat-producer to take the
wheel. (5)
26 — Girl is back for a quadruped.
(3)
27 F.N.D. characters in Turkey
might expect to be so addressed.
(7)
29 — Whole number makes it green.
(7)
30 — Strange change in Sir Malcolm.
(7)
31 — Seeing’s arranged by the first
book. (7)
Down
1 — One with a steeple aimed high,
but what killed Queen Cleopatra
I before blushing? (7)
2 Self-willed musical work when
swallowed by Edward of the
Hebrides? (11)
3 A quarter-pint upset a rocky
mountain crock? (9)
4 Bird in the bone-quarry. (6)
5 Defer betting information before
Miss Hayworth drops a spar. (8)
6 Japanese sash. (3)
7 Sirius Lassie? (7)
10 —Girl is a prosecutor in the IJ.S.A.
(3)
14 —Record our matters which, as
women, we would probably keep
secret. Cfertainly not eggs. (11)
17 — Butterfly left by this more
socialistic weight. (9)
18 — Try one street like Bacon or
Montaigne. (8)
19 — Those to whom goods are
delivered in trust include the Arts
graduate and the Italian dregs.
(7)
21 —Esmond fishes from cliffs. (7)
22 —Issuing invitations like a ruler.
(6)
24 —Different directions taken to a
beard of corn. (3)
28—Remote organisation noted for
flying up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 408


THE BEST NEWS FOR GRAZIERS SINCE
SHEARING MACHINERY...
THE NEW MOFFAT-VIRTUE
SHOWER SPRAY
DIPPING PLANT
• Prefabricated Construc-
tion makes installation easy
and inexpensive for the
grazier. The improved M.V.
layout makes plant adapt-
able to local conditions
Patent applied for (No. 21446)
—-"V ‘
l 1 1
B
I
m
m
Easier, faster, more scientific, this Moffat-Virtue
FULL PROTECTION against lice, tick and fly
There are so many obvious advantages of the new
M.V. Dipping Method over the slow, dirty and
laborious “plunge bath” dip system that graziers have
already enthusiastically acclaimed the new plant.
Chief advantages in brief are:
# FASTER DIPPING (40-45 sheep dipped in one
operation). 0 LESS LABOUR (only two men,
plant provides the easy economical way to give sheep
strike.
working normally, are needed). • FULL PROTEC-
TION (28 high pressure, non-clogging nozzles give
thorough all-over saturation). # PROTECTS THE
SHEEP (no rough handling . . . no loss of “condi-
tion ). 9 FLUID SAVING . . . efficient draining
and screening of fluid which can be used and re-used
many times.
EVERY PICTURE TELLS
THE STORY • « M.Y. Shower Spray
Dip is easy on the sheep, easy on the man . . .
turning a real “headache” into a simple, money
saving process.
5
;~~:s
ww
JT“jbgk
1
MMT
IP®
® Operation begins when sheep are moved from
loading pen into spraying pen.
i
:!
• This photo shows wire exit-gate to draining pen.
“Decoy” sheep in draining pen gets sheep, into
spraying pen. Note sprays covering every area. The
sheep are calm and comparatively still.
i Sheep have been moved into draining pen and a
second batch is in process of being sprayed. Entry
pen is being loaded at rear.
,■' *< ~ , S BE **
' *-\r
gg|%||||g
* v-i ■ Tjg&f
< '■ ■
"" '"""
mmims
m :\
m*
‘‘A’-
3*
% The final operation is the release of sprayed sheep.
Drained-off fluid goes hack to reservoir for screening
. and re-use.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Ptv.
Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND:
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Limited, Adelaide.
Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Elder, Smith & C0.,-
VICTORIA: Elder, Smith and Co., Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty,
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
I V. flGRICULTURRL REUJS
THEY WANT 20%
OF YOUR NEXT
WOOL CLIP!...
TM« entire pare to a PAID ADVEBTISEMBITT
himul t—MMy hr MOFFAT-VTRTCTE ITMTT*»
November
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1956
BODY LOUSE.
SHEEP RED (TICK).
Two types of external sheep parasites are traditional “Public Enemies” in graziers’ eves Lice and ked
hold on a aock ’ can red "“ * —
In these days of fluctuating wool prices and spiralling
production costs, this is a tremendous additional
burden on the backs of graziers struggling to keep
the Wool Industry on a profitable basis.
Now, the effective answer to these external parasite
pests is available to graziers ... the use of modern
dipping solutions and the means of ensuring their
correct application to the sheep.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, after a long and careful scientific
investigation of the problem, have produced the
M.V. Shower Spray Dipping Plant, which provides
the ultimate in equipment to eliminate sheep parasite
pests.
Parasites, such as lice, tick or maggots, if neglected,
cause great damage to the fleece, and can seriously
affect the health of the flock, Graziers are well
aware of this fact, and Government authorities, in
an effort to ensure control of the problem, have
enacted legislation making it obligatory for the
grazier to ensure his sheep are vermin-free. Govern-
ment Stock Inspectors are empowered to quarantine,
or even order the destruction of any stock found to
be badly infected . , .
It is the unanimous verdict of Government
Animal Husbandry experts, leading graziers and
agricultural scientists, that in order to protect the
sheep regular dipping is absolutely necessary. The
Agi icultural Department advises: ts Dipping may be
carried out by using a plunge dip or a spray dip, the
main requirement being that each sheep must be
thoroughly wetted with the dipping fluid.” The fact
of having the M.V. Shower Spray Dip installed with
its speed, ease of operation, low labour requirement
and cleanliness gives the grazier more opportunity to
carry out regular effective dippings.
Graziers who have recently purchased the plant state
that they are well on the way to recouping their
initial outlay . . . This Moffat-Virtue Plant is the
last word” in the scientific application of dipping
solutions. Its many features include the exclusive
automatic hydraulic valve, controlling the twelve
top sprays by alternating six sprays on and six off
at a time, thus ensuring that the sheep get ample
breathing space.
The exclusive M.V. Straining system provides the
means of cleansing the dipping fluids to such an
extent as to almost entirely eliminate waste.
Another outstanding feature of the M.V. plant is
the automatic mixing agitator, which ensures a
uniformly effective dip throughout the entire
operation.
An important point is that the plant may be
powered by an existing engine, your tractor power
take-off, an electric motor or, if required, the famous
M.V. type “V3” Stationary Engine which can be
supplied with the plant as an extra.
The plant is prefabricated for easy erection, and
the layout is suitable for adaptation to a great variety
of different local conditions. The cost, as compared
with the average Plunge Bath installation is more
than competitive, as a considerably lower quantity of
concrete construction is required. Operating costs
are' estimated at as low as £5 per 1000 head of
sheep, including dipping fluid, petrol and oil.
Full details of the plant, with its many advantages
and features found in no other Dipping Plant on the
Australian market, may be obtained from all Moffat-
Virtue Agents, and the Interstate Distributors listed
at the foot of this page.
If required, graziers may take advantage of the
liberal Moffat-Virtue extended payment plan, which
allows the plant to pay for itself while it works.
