

/
ok##*'
e ppe&
SWEET OK DR
\W':
The Bulletin
THEY CHALLENGE AUSTRALIA —PAGE 25
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3999
Wednesday, October 3, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 3/8: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
COLCHESTER'S SIEGE HOUSE RECALLS THE CITY'S WARLIKE PAST
COLCHESTER, the oldest recorded town in Britain, is situated fifty miles
from London in Essex. It was there that the Romans established their
first colony in Britain in a.d. 43, then known as Camulodunum, and their
occupation lasted nearly four centuries.
In a.d. 61 the town was devastated by the warrior Queen, Boadicea, during
the course of a great rising of the native Britons against the invaders. It was
to protect the town from further attacks that the Romans encircled Colchester
with a defensive wall, which can still be seen today. One of the native
kings during the Roman occupation of Colchester was Coel —the “old King
Cole” of the nursery rhyme—whose daughter, Helena, was married to Emperor
Constantine; their son was Constantine the Great, who, according to legend,
was born at Colchester.
As a result of the long Roman occupation of the town, Colchester is now
the proud possessor of one of the finest collections of Romano-Rritish antiquities
in existence. It is housed in the 11th-century Norman castle which was
constructed almost entirely of re-used Roman tiles.
The Normans, like the Romans, recognised the strategic importance of the
town and established there one of their strongest fortresses. Later, one
of the bitterest sieges of the Civil War, lasting seventy-six days, took place
in Colchester, and the damage sustained at that time by many of the town’s
ancient buildings can still be seen today. An outstanding example is the
picturesque half-timbered building known as the Siege House and which is
illustrated here. Its woodwork is pitted with musket shot, a reminder of its
eventful and stormy past.
Rich in survivals from Celtic, Roman, Saxon, Norman and medieval
times, Colchester presents a panorama of history covering two thousand years.


A CAREER FOR YOU ...
STOTT’S can prepare you, by Home-Study,
for any Career. Look down this List and
post the Coupon today: no obligation.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Commercial, Station)
Accountancy
English/Arithmetic
Intermediate Certificate
Dresscutting/jDesign
Showcards/Tiekets
Display and Window
Dressing
Commercial Art
Drawing-Sketching
Caricature/ Cartooning
Livestock Breeding
Dairy Farming
Soil/Farm Crops
Testers/Graders
Dairy Supervision
Handwriting
Memory Training
Herd Testers
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Salesmanship
Advertising
Radio (for Amateurs)
Engineering: Motor,
Diesel, Mechanical,
Electrical
Draftsmanship: Mech-
anical, Architectural
Builders’ Courses
Engine Drivers
Boiler Attendants
Electric Wiring
General Education
Stammerers’ Course
Backward Adults
100 Russel] St.', Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeil
St., Adelaide ; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT HERE AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Correspondence
Course/s in
MY NAME .
ADDRESS
S.B 1956 Age
800 KHUN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text *
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only 3
The Red Page
THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK-COLLECTOR
In a paper read before the Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia in
1954 Mr. Justice Ferguson said that the
day of the great, omnivorous collectors
was past: due largely to high prices
for both old and new books. In his
informative and entertaining The Art
of Book-Collecting in Australia (Angus
and Robertson), Dr. George Mackaness
concurs.
It is interesting to compare the prices
of some well-known rarities in the
Australian field, noted by Dr.
Mackaness in contemporary catalogues,
with the prices as determined by E. A.
Petherick in Francis Edwards’s 1899
catalogue. Bligh’s “Narrative of the
Mutiny on Board the Bounty” has
jumped from 14s. to £5O; Lycett’s
“Views in Australia” from £l3 to
£200; Burney’s “History of Voyages
and Discovery” from 10s. to £120;
Hamilton’s “Voyage of the Pandora”
from 10s. to £55; Busby’s “A Treatise
on the Cultivation of the Vine” from
18s. to £42; “An Historical Narrative
of the Discovery of New Holland and
New South Wales” from Is. to £65.
Dr. Mackaness tells how he picked
up at an old-fashioned little news-
agency at Ryde (Sydney) a first edition
of Norman Lindsay’s “The Magic
Pudding” for half-a-crown. He
obtained another first edition of the
same book from a Burwood (Sydney)
newsagency for ss. A 1954 bookseller’s
catalogue lists a first edition of “The
Magic Pudding,” published in 1918
at 7s. 6d., at 12-guineas! Is it any
wonder that the average book-collector
today tends to specialise?
Of course, as Dr. Mackaness points
out, “some collectors have dominating
predilections which influence their
field,” apart from consideration of
prices, as, for instance, Geoffrey Ingle-
ton, who specialises in voyages, the
sea, shipwrecks, cartography and
nautica; Major John Ponder, of Gee-
long, fine copies of travel and explora-
tion; Harry Chaplin, who collects
chiefly Norman Lindsay and Henry
Lawson; J. K. Moir, association copies
and manuscripts; Dr. John Holt,
aborigines; Bruce Evans and Drs.
Crowther and Craig, Tasmaniana; the
late Charles Bertie, books about
Sydney; Robert Hanlon, crime, con-
victs and bushrangers; and the late
Gregory Mathews, ornithology.
Others are known to specialise in the
books of “The Bulletin”; N.S.W. Book-
stall Co. paperbacks; books and
pamphlets about Ned Kelly; the works
of Louis Becke and Nat Gould; books
dealing with Australian cricketers; and
municipal histories. A book-collector
who aims for completeness in a limited
field is called a “cabinet” collector.
One such collector was, the late
Louis H. Paul, a Sydney journalist,
who specialised in books and pamphlets
dealing with the Australian theatre
and Australian theatrical personalities.
He reinforced his collection of books
with a number of valuable scrapbooks
of illustrations and cuttings from news-
papers and magazines.
Some of the material Dr. Mackaness
writes about might be too expensive
for the average small collector. For
instance—to quote some of Dr.
Mackaness’s chapter-headings—“ Some
Australian Firsts,” “Discoverers and
Explorers of Australia by Sea,” “Bligh
and Bountyana,” “French Voyages to
the Pacific,” “Collecting the Australian
Land Explorers,” “Rare Colored Plate
Books” and “Australian Broadsides.”
But there are more approachable
fields; and he gives much useful infor-
mation on collecting Australian fiction
and the poets.
With the exception of the chapters
on J. A. Ferguson’s great “Biblio-
graphy of Australia” and Geoffrey
Ingleton’s “True Patriots All,” which
this writer seems to remember as
reviews, practically the whole of Dr.
Mackaness’s volume first appeared as
articles in the “Amateur Book Collec-
tor of America.” While it is chiefly for
the intending collector, the general
reader will find some human as well
as literary interest in the couple of
chapters on bargains found and missed.
When, for example. Dr. Mackaness
picked up a copy of Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “Bush Ballads and Galloping
Rhymes” for 2s. he congratulated him-
self on his good luck. He was not
aware how extraordinarily lucky he
was until he discovered that the copy he
had bought was Gordon’s personal
copy containing proposed changes in
the pagination and the inclusion in
Gordon’s handwriting of three addi-
tional poems, as if the poet was prepar-
ing a new edition: In fact he was; the
second edition , of “Bush Ballads and
Galloping Rhymes” conforms to the
proposed changes in the pagination and
contains the three new poems—“ Basket
of Flowers,” “Whither Bound” and
“An Unfinished Fragment.”
Again, there are two first editions
of Henry Kendall’s “Songs from the
Mountains.” The “suppressed” edition,
which is worth about 10-guineas
or more, contains “The Song of Ninian
Melville,” a satirical, and possibly
libellous, poem on Ninian Melville, a
disagreeable N. S. Wales politician of
the period. In the “expurgated” first
edition, which is worth probably a
pound or two, a poem called “Christ-
mas Creek” replaces the Melville
poem. While Dr. Mackaness was
handling his own copy of the “Christ-
mas Creek” edition one day there
fluttered out a little 12mo pamphlet,
without CQvers. It was “The Song of
Ninian Melville,” which had been pub-
lished as a “separate,” and is now,
itself, a very choice and rare item.
Dr. Mackaness tells how he acquired
for £5O the William Ridley library—
“a veritable treasure-house of rare
books, about 2000 volumes in all”
(including nearly 400 volumes of Aus-
traliana and five large bookcases), on
the condition that Ridley’s widow
“threw in” a colored lithograph of
“Governor Bligh being pulled from
under a bed by Lieutenant Minchin
and two soldiers of the N.S.W. Corps.”
Not counting the Bligh lithograph—a
great rarity itself—Dr. Mackaness,
after selling two of the bookcases and
a few of the books of minor interest,
was only £5 10s. out of pocket.
Another artless vendor was the inno-
cent old gentleman of 75 who, one
morning, sold to Dr. Mackaness two
mint copies of Carboni Raffaello’s “The
Eureka Stockade” for 7s. 6d. each. The
old gentleman’s father, J.- P. Atkinson,
had printed the book at Ballarat in
1855. Later in the day Dr. Mackaness
sold one of the two copies of “The
Eureka Stockade” to a fellow-collector
for £l. The other collector, being
more knowledgeable than Dr. Macka-
ness was at the time, sold his copy
the same afternoon to a Sydney book-
seller for £4O!
Not all the casual vendors Dr.
Mackaness encountered, however, were
so obliging. Old Miss Mathews, of
Albury (N.S.W.), demanded seven-
guineas for a dilapidated copy of John
Farrell’s “Ephemera,” and got her
price.
In his chapter on E. A. Petherick,
described by Dr. Mackaness as “The
First Great Australian Bibliographer,”
due attention is paid to Petherick’s
finest published work, the “Catalogue
of Books Relating to Australasia,
Malaysia and Polynesia,” which he
compiled for Francis Edwards, the
London bookseller, in 1899, but Dr.
Mackaness seems to have overlooked
a most important and extensive biblio-
graphy which preceded Petherick’s
1899 catalogue—“Australasian Biblio-
graphy,” published by the Public
Library of N. S. Wales in 1893.
Dr. Mackaness’s caption describing
the two photographs facing page 36 is
misleading, and there are a number of
errors in the book—Kendall sent the
manuscript of “Songs from the Moun-
tains” to his publisher, William
Maddock, in 1879, not 1889 (Kendall
died in 1882); Charles Rowcroft’s
“Tales of the Colonies” was first pub-
lished in 1843, not 1834; Henry
Savery’s “Quintus Servinton” was not
“the first novel printed in Australia,”
that honor belonging to Savery’s “The
Hermit in Van Diemen’s Land”
(which, incidentally. Dr. Mackaness
twice refers to as “The Hermit of Van
Diemen’s Land”) . . .
Miles Franklin’s “My Brilliant
Career,” to continue the list of mis-
takes, was published in 1901, not 1917;
Carboni Raffaello’s “The Eureka
Stockade,” included in the chapter
“Collecting Australian Fiction,” is not
a work of fiction, and Raffaello should
be spelt as printed here; Henry
Lawson’s “Joseph’s Dream” is wrongly
called “Pharaoh’s Dream”; Charles
Harpur’s drama “The Tragedy of
Donohoe” saw print earlier than E. H.
Thomas’s three-act drama, “Bandit on
the Rhine”: and assistant-surveyor
James Mcßrien discovered gold in
Australia 16 years before Strzelecki did.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
No Ordinary School
“But honestly, this is no ordinary
school,” says the heroine in Claudine
at School, the latest in Seeker and
Warburg’s collected edition of the
novels of Colette; and this girls’ school
of Montigny, with a boys’ school con-
veniently adjoining, set amongst woods
and wildflowers, certainly is far
from ordinary—with the adorable
Mademoiselle Lanthenay, the new
assistant teacher, setting the junior
masters chasing each other round the
playground and fighting in the woods
over her, and darkly suspected of
intrigues with the inspector and, most
of the time, sitting coyly on the head-
mistress’s knee.
It is, in a word, a French school;
very; and—it is no less rich in
Rabelaisian comedy, but tidier in form
—you could compare it with Cheval-
lier’s delightful “Sainte Colline.” But
even French schoolgirls are human;
and the reader who cannot quite
believe in all these wild doings
(and indeed Colette has obviously
exaggerated them) will find the
eternally-hungry Anais at least as
recognisable as any of the girls of St.
Trinian’s: —
Luce sat down and watched me
with a sidelong, timid glance. But
I didn’t deign to speak to her yet:
I merely exchanged remarks about
the new school with Anais, who
was avidly nibbling some unknown
substance that looked to me like
green buds.
“Whatever are you eating—old
crab-apples?”
“Lime buds, old thing. Nothing so
good. Now’s just the moment when
it’s getting on for March.”
“Give us a bit? ... Really, it’s
awfully good. It’s sticky like gum
on fruit-trees. I’ll get some of it
off the limes in the playground.
And what hitherto unknown deli-
cacies are you stuffing yourself with
nowadays?”
“Oh, nothing startling. I can’t even
eat colored pencils any more. This
year’s lot are gritty. Beastly—abso-
lute rubbish. However, to make up
for that, the blotting - paper’s
excellent . . .”
Indeed, all the girls are most vividly
and amusingly portrayed and, spilling
bottles of ink, dreaming of love and
incessantly and mercilessly observing
their teachers —at one moment
appallingly concerned with extracting
the square-root of 2,730,620 and the
next writing notes to their boyfriends
- make in all a wonderful study of
adolescence, half-ink and half-moon-
light, much more convincing and attrac-
tive than the more selfconscious picture
Colette attempted in the last of the
Seeker and Warburg series, “Ripening
Seed,”
Of the adult characters, by far the
most alive is Claudine’s father, seen in
brief glimpses when he can be detached
from his hobby of observing slugs. But
the masters and mistresses, though
observed through the eye of the school-
girl, and therefore caricatured, are
none the less amusing for that—in fact,
they are all the more spirited.
A foreword by Colette tells us, with
some acidity, that she wrote the novel
shortly after her marriage—6o years
ago—at the suggestion of her husband,
M. Willy, a professional author who
intended to put it out under his own
name. M. Willy thought the manuscript
rubbish; then, two years later, hap-
pened to glance at it again, recognised
its quality, got her to “hot it up” a
little and had it published under his
signature—“ And that was how I
became a writer.”
Wild, high-spirited, pert and un-
believably dominating, Colette herself
appears in it, as Claudine, in an
idealised self-portrait; and the mixture
of naivety and brilliance in this picture,
and in the writing throughout, gives
us a novel of rare freshness, rather like
a combination of “The Young Visiters”
with Miles Franklin’s “My Brilliant
Career.”
Robert Graves's Lectures
Robert Graves, as Sir Walter
Raleigh said of Blake, is “a dangerous
idol for any man to keep in his shop.”
The Professor was thinking of the
dealer in idols who found that in his
absence the idols had quarrelled, and
one of them had smashed all the
others; and sure enough, when Mr.
Graves was invited to give the Clark
Lectures at Cambridge, 1954-55 —The
Crowning Privilege (Cassell) —which
amounts to being put among the
English idols, he laid about him with
all the fervor of his earlier “Pamphlet
Against Anthologies.”
Pope and Dry den not being among
one’s own josses, one is least inclined
to protest when Graves calls theirs
“the Age of Obsequiousness.” Graves
is of the reviewer’s own mind in pre-
ferring Swift’s verse to Pope’s; but so
solidly does he get stuck into Mr.
Alexander Pope that one found one-
self objecting that at least Pope turned
more gracefully on his caesura than
anyone had done before or since. But
Mr, Graves has anticipated even this,
and there is a hostile analysis of Pope
as a verse-technician; his hissing s’s;
his cheap alliterations; his übiquitous,
genteel “the” —one must say regret-
fully that it sounds a little like special
pleading.
Then, Wordsworth is so easy to
score-off; and maybe Tennyson’s
staggering technique doesn’t excuse
what he did with it. Still: —
Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty light;
The year is dying in the night . . .
Who can write like that these days?
But of course it is hilariously comic
to put “Bottom Upwards” in place of
“Oriana”: —
The battle deepened in its place,
But I was down upon my face,
Oriana.
They should have stabbed me where
I lay,
Oriana.
How could I rise and come away,
Oriana.
How could I look upon the day?
They should have stabbed me where
I lay,
Oriana —
They should have trod me into clay,
Oriana.
Old stuff, but pleasing ... It is in
Lecture VI that Graves really gets
o Continued, on page 35)


,1
St
r
<7*>
V
yj
*as
<* 5
ffP
£>
<7*
sss ■.:
1111111 l
*
*
<£P>
ss»
Hi
■ '
mi
y
y «
,f‘-
o
»r
m
Mil?
%
£
«•)
ill
A
m
m
ii
§
w
y
y $ •
'•*’ '&%
r&o n i C
sM>
c>
6 /
See
the Puppet Ballet: “Spirit of the Rose 99
Specially created and presented for the Festival of Flowers by the
famous Griffiths Television Marionettes. This show is in our 4th
Floor Galleries on the hour'and half-hour from 10.30 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
Monday to Friday, and 9-30 to 11.30 a.m., Sat. morning, from Monday.
Were planning
a bigger and
bloomier
Festival of Flowers
Remember our Festival of blowers last year. All Sydney was enraptured with our flower-filled store —the glorious
collection of blossoms—the beautiful displays. On Monday, in conjunction with the City of Sydney Waratah
Spring Festival, we are again presenting (for one week only) a delightful, spectacular flower
show, bigger and bloomier than ever. The 1956 Festival of Flowers at Anthony Horderns’ has been
planned and executed in co-operation with our own staff, our merchandise suppliers, business
associates and members of the Spastic Centre Younger Set. Come up to our 4th Floor
Galleries to see the huge floral carpet; have lunch in our floral restaurant where
whistling canaries will entertain you. Take a walk around our beautifully floral-
decorated windows, each arranged by many of our suppliers.
' /
Jff
Qyi^
tnri °
K)
«
|0 0 u
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns’
© «


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3999
Wednesday, October 3, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G-P.0.), Wellington.
WHERE DOES EVATT STAND?
THE Prime Minister’s speech on the Suez position
was probably the clearest, most straight-from-the-
shoulder and complete summary of the issues
involved and the procedure being adopted that has
been delivered in any country.
He explained virtually every move made by the
countries whose interests have been threatened. He
clarified the natural sequences, exactly in line with
the provisions of the U.N. Charter, by which the
matter reached the Security Council.
He made it quite clear that this is not merely
an isolated incident in which the sole issue is
whether or not the canal is kept open to trade, but
a “crossroads in history”; an incident in the
deliberate policy originated in Moscow of creating
disturbance with a view to robbing Western Europe
of its Middle Eastern oil, bringing about local war
and depression and destroying the markets and
the sources of supply on which the prosperity and
continued employment of hundreds of millions of
people in Europe and Asia and Australasia depend.
If the Prime Minister’s speech was important
—informative, clear-cut, both as to the issues and
as to the means of resolving them and the attitude
of the European world —Dr. Evatt’s was equally
important in another way. It showed quite clearly
how far the Opposition view in Canberra diverges
from the Australian national view and how closely
it is aligned to the view of the Kremlin. In its very
nature, Dr. Evatt’s utterance was something to
astound the listener. It was hysterical, breathless,
sounding as if somebody had him by the back of
the neck and was shaking the words out of him by
force. The gist of it seemed to be that he was all
on Nasser’s side. Menzies said that he had been
astonished when conferring with Nasser to hear
the latter uttering the exact sentiments, the slogans,
the very words that had been uttered by Russia’s
delegate, Shepilov, at the Twenty-two Power Con-
ference in London. Had he spoken again after
Evatt he would have been able to say that almost
every sentiment uttered by the Opposition-leader
had been uttered already with the same display of
mock indignation by the Kremlin and its press.
The conjunction of the Australian “Labor”
Party with a man of Nasser’s calibre, pleading his
cause and pleading for unlimited negotiation with
him, makes a grim and frightening picture.
To begin with, Nasser is a regular Army
officer, a military dictator of the worst type, swash-
buckling, arrogant, abusive and provocative.
He and his colleagues seized power by military
force. Having seized it,‘they gave an undertaking
to establish Parliamentary methods in Egypt by
January, 1956. When, on the petition of the
Egyptian Bar Association and others, their Presi-
dent, Neguib, showed signs of favoring the cariying-
out of this promise, he disappeared. Nasser took
over with his tommy-gun guard. He rules by force;
he glories in force.
Nasser’s seizure of the canal was as barefaced
a piece of aggression as has been seen in recent
years. As Menzies pointed out, he made an agree-
ment with the Suez Canal Company on June 6
regarding financial advances which it was to
make to him. Seven weeks later, without a word
of warning, he sent armed forces to the canal, seized
it in an instant, made no arrangements for paying
for it and had no negotiation with the operators.
He then, by decree published in the “Gazette,”
announced that all employees of the Canal Com-
pany must continue to work under the Egyptian
Government under pain of imprisonment. He
placed them under armed duress. They were sub-
jected to brutal insult, to search, to rigid surveil-
lance. Their families were put in fear.
Dr. Evatt excuses the seizure by force and tries
to palliate its more hideous features. Nasser
“passed a law,” he says; therefore it was legal
nationalisation. So he did. The military dictator,
head of a junta of military officers who refused to
introduce Parliamentary rule into their country, put
down his automatic for a moment so that he could
reach for his fountain-pen and “pass a law,” and
straightway sent armed force to seize the canal and
conscript the employees under threat of jail.
But, says Evatt, the Prime Minister has
wickedly misrepresented the position. He suggests
that Nasser used soldiers to carry out his law, while
Evatt’s information suggests that they were only
armed police. The Opposition-leader finds nothing
wrong with the conscription of employees —Nasser
had to run the canal, hadn’t he?
He is shrill because when Nasser was shriek-
ing threats against the British and the French, and
the employees of the canal and the residents of
Cairo were in danger from his mobs, the British
and the French actually dared to become guilty of
“provocation” by sending armed forces to the
Eastern Mediterranean as a precautionary measure.
Dr. Evatt thinks that the whole world will be
“disgusted” at Mr. Menzies’s “violent” speech. The
nations which oppose Egypt are, in his eyes, a
“brutal majority.” Their plan for a Canal Users’
Association is “meant to create a breach of the
Convention. It is proposed to manufacture a situa-
tion” to prevent Nasser getting ships through the
canal.
Every step taken (except those taken by
Nasser) has been wrong and imperialistic and
oppressive. And to talk of “war” is not to talk
the “language of the 20th century”—except,
apparently, when Nasser, Khrushchev and Mao talk
of it. It is “sheer humbug and hypocrisy,” in Dr.
Evatt’s view, to talk of international control of the
canal.
In fact, as Menzies said, answering an inter-
jection by E. J. Ward, the Leader of the Opposition
and his followers, as always in the last few years,
are “on the side of the enemy,” when that enemy
is serving the purposes of Russian policy.
They were on the side of Rupert Lockwood,
the U.S.S.R. and the Communists in the Petrov
episode. They have been on the side of the Red
Chinese. They oppose Australian action against
the Malayan Communists. They are on the side
of Nasser, encouraging him to fight to drive the
British and Americans out of the Middle Eastern
oilfields, trying to frustrate the policy of the
majority in the Australian, British, American and
French legislatures.
The only measure Dr. Evatt is prepared to
see taken —because he does not think even a “small
weak nation” can be talked to as “brutally” as
Menzies and others have dared to talk —is to “go
on negotiating till all else fails, and you want
experienced men such as the present Secretary-
General of the United Nations or the former
Secretary-General, Mr. Trygve Lie” ... of course
under the banner of the United Nations.
Last April Mr. Hammerskjold, Dr. Evatt’s
first choice as a negotiator, on behalf of the United
Nations, ordered a cease-fire order in the Israeli
war. The Egyptians, Jordanians and Israelis have
all gone on killing each other. And Nasser has
made it clear in the speeches made in Cairo during
the last few weeks that he intends to go on until
he has wiped Israel out and until European influence
is driven right out of the Middle East and North
Africa.
The only European influence he is willing to
tolerate is that of the only body which will now
supply him with arms—Soviet Russia. Despite Dr.
Evatt, he has again and again made it plain that
there will be no negotiation about the canal except
on the basis that he has seized it and intends to
keep it.
His approach to the United Nations is based on
the impudent charge that the British and French
are aggressors for daring to be alarmed by deliberate
threats of war and violence and for preparing to
defend their nationals if necessary.
He seems a most unlikely friend for a “Labor”
leader—if Dr. Evatt is a “Labor” leader.
Production and Better Living
DESPITE all that has been written about the
need for increased productivity, it is doubtful
whether much of it has reached the right people.
All arguments on the subject are wasted if they
don’t convince the people on whom production
depends. In Britain and America campaigns to
make the worker aware of the connection between
living-standards and production have been carried
on ever since the end of World War 11. The
Anglo-American Productivity Council, set up by
Sir Stafford Cripps and Paul Hoffman, by arrang-
ing visits to America for more than 70 “produc-
tivity teams” drawn from all branches of British
industry, gave workers, managers, technicians,
employers and accountants an opportunity to see
what made American industry tick. This organisa-
tion and its successor, the British Productivity
Council, can claim credit for a rise in the rate of
increase of productivity of British industry from
the pre-war figure of 1} per cent, annually to about
3\ per cent, in 1953.
In Australia very little has been accomplished
in the way of educating public opinion, and, in
particular, the wage-earner, on the need for greater
productivity. The Ministry of Labor Advisory
Council discussed the problem in a general way last
March, but no concrete action followed.
Last week two more contributions to the
literature of productivity reached “The Bulletin”,
office. One was a paper put out by the research
section of the N. S. Wales Liberal party. It
traverses the usual arguments for increased produc-
tion, and points out that, although the “Labor” party
assumes that productivity will increase, it seems
to feel no necessity to do anything to bring this
about. The A.L.P. platform provides for a pro-
gressive reduction of working hours from 40 to 30
a week, with “wage-standards to be progressively
increased as industrial productivity expands.” This
implies an increase in productivity of more than
one-third. “Yet, despite the enormous increase
envisaged there is no mention of how it is to be
brought about, nor any recognition that it has
anything to do with the workers. It will just
happen.”
The A.L.P.’s traditional teaching has been
that improved living-standards for the worker are
gained at the expense of the employer. But, says
the paper, “despite unremitting efforts of the trade-
unions to increase wages at the expense of profits,
gains from this source have been minute. This in
a period when the unions have been more successful
than ever before in raising money-wages.”
Between 1946-47 and 1954-55 average wages
rose from £6 11s. 6d. a week to £l6 Bs. sd. a week.
In 1946-47 wages and salaries were 56.5 per cent,
of the national income and in 1954-55 they were
57.8 per cent. As long ago as 1928 the economist
F. C. Benham, in his book “The Prosperity of
Australia,” estimated that wage and salary earners
took nearly 60 per cent, of the national product.
Going further back, the research-paper claims
that real wages increased by 45 per cent, between
1911 and 1955 and that as the ratio of wages to
national income has varied little, this must have
all come from increased productivity. This assump-
tion gives an annual increase in productivity of
1 per cent., which compares rather unfavorably
with U.N. figures quoted for the United Kingdom,
U.S.A., Canada and five other Western nations;
these were all of the order of 2 to 3 per cent.
The other publication is a pamphlet, Produc-
tion —the Key to Better Living, issued by the
Institute of Public Affairs and intended for wide
distribution among workers in industry and com-
merce. It avoids politics altogether, and sets out
to explain by diagrams and down-to-earth argument
the benefits that can accrue to everyone in Australia
as a result of a flat-out drive for greater produc-
tion. It strives to punch home the lesson that even
after allowing for more efficient management and
greater use of machinery, productivity (and
consequently better living-standards) still depend
on the co-operation of the individual man or woman
in industry.
Put plainly, the only way to have more
bread-and-butter is to make more butter and
more bread. This statement seems self-evident,
and to a small isolated community with an economy
uncomplicated by overseas trade, foreign exchange,
highly specialised division of labor and an intricate
system of wage-determination it would be self-
evident. It is not quite so obvious in a modern
industrialised community where the mechanism of
production and the bookkeeping systems devised
to record production and facilitate distribution may
tend to obscure the fact that the real purpose of
industry is to produce goods or render services.
Anyone can tell the difference between a small
heap of coconuts and a large heap of coconuts, but
not everyone can read a balance-sheet.
The pamphlet-idea is a good one, and the direct
approach to the wage-earner may bring results. But
in the present political set-up it is doubtful if any
great improvement can be wrought without the
co-operation of trade-union leaders. Since its
inception the “Labor” movement has devoted the
major part of its energies to securing for the wage-
earner a bigger proportion of the products of
industry. Comparing the living-standards of today
with those of the 1890’s it cannot be denied that they
have met with some success —though there is plenty
of room for difference of opinion when it comes to
assessing what proportion of the improvement is
directly attributable to political “Labor,” especially
when it is realised that American trade-unionists
have achieved the highest living-standards in the
world without direct recourse to politics.
It is probably too late in the day to ask the
Old Faithfuls of “Labor” to learn new arguments to
replace the class-war slogans which, designed for
an era which knew no social services and no
arbitration courts, have served them politically so
well for so long. But younger men in the party
should be beginning to realise that although there
may still be scope for some slight increase in the
share which wages can take out of national produc-
tion, the surer way of improving living-standards
is by increasing production so that there is more
to be shared.


CHORUS OF STATE TREASURERS: “LET ME TRY IT ON!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Liberal Deputy-leader
“In the ACT”: There were some sur-
prises in the ballot for the deputy-
leadership of the Parliamentary Liberal
party in Canberra, but no one was really
surprised that Harold Holt secured the
keenly-contested plum. It is another
landmark in a distinguished political
career, and both he and the party are
entitled to regard the vote as endorse-
ment of a legitimate ambition to take
the final step upwards if and when R. G.
Menzies decides to relinquish the burden
of the Prime Ministership. As Leader of
the House, in succession to Eric
Harrison, Holt will be able to use his
conciliatory talents on occasion, but he
will also be able to display the toughness
in a hard fight which he revealed on
many occasions while in Opposition. He
is a good and astute Parliamentarian, he
has the advantage of comparative youth,
and he knows and appreciates the benefits
of occasional respites from hard work.
He has a pleasant, forthright manner, and
the ability to make a speech “off the
cuff.”
Harrison, who leaves later this month
for his post as High Commissioner in
London, has done a great deal in the last
seven years to weld the Liberals into an
efficient and friendly team. He has made
no enemies and has played no favorites ;
he has stood up to “Labor” in the House,
and his personal relationships with
“Labor’s” deputy-leader, Arthur Calwell,
have enabled the business of the House
to move on reasonably well-oiled wheels.
There is no reason to expect that Holt
will alter this approach within the party -
room or outside it. He appears to be
justifying the high hopes which greeted
his entrance into politics before World
War 11, and his early promotion in
Canberra. The greatest part of his career
may well lie before him, and his handling
of the new problems will be watched
with keenest attention inside and outside
Parliament, by supporters and by
opponents.
Gair on the Grid-iron
Having temporised until manoeuvre was
no longer possible Queensland Premier
Gair finds himself at the end of his tether
with his party.
With an election imminent, he
succeeded a few months ago in staving
off the evil day of decision on the Trades
Hail ultimatum on three-weeks’ annual-
leave. And he avoided dispute with the
A.W.U. by allowing unions virtually to
establish a rule of intimidation and
bludgeon-down opposition in Western
Queensland shearing towns wherever they
felt themselves strong enough.
After the Foley scandal he docilely
agreed to sack the chairman of the Land
Administration Board and keep Foley
in his caucus though a royal commission
had found him guilty of corrupt conduct.
Last month, however, a crisis was
triggered-off when the woolbuyers operat-
ing for the first sales of the season
refused to come to Brisbane without an
effective promise that the wool sold would
be shipped.
Failure to give the promise would have
had economic consequences for Queens-
land which were not pleasant to contem-
plate, so Gair, with his normal airy
optimism, gave the promise and sat down
to hope that something would, as usual,
turn up.
On September 23 a meeting which was
reported to represent “many thousands
of unionists” passed a resolution declar-
ing that “the continuance of scab labor
in the pastoral industry is a threat to the
entire trade-union movement,” adding
that “we would remind Mr. Gair the
trade-union movement will never
relinquish the fight to get decent wage-
levels.” The resolution suggested that
“it is the responsibility of the Premier and
his Cabinet, as workers’ representatives,
to get on side with the trade-unions and
to use the Government resources to bring
about a satisfactory settlement.” At the
same time Dougherty announced that “if
troops are used to handle the wool, I’m
satisfied that there would be a general
stoppage of pastoral workers throughout
Australia,” and that “it could lead to the
biggest industrial upheaval in this
country’s history.”
Simultaneously, the Q.C.E. of the
“Labor” party applied pressure to Gair
to introduce the three-weeks’ annual-leave
for all Queensland workers, over the head
of the State industrial tribunals.
Taking all his Dutch courage in his
hands, Gair announced that on the wool-
issue he was not going to be dictated to
by a lot of Communists —he can’t be
unless he is prepared to face the State’s
financial ruin which the cessation of
wool-sales would entail. And for
financial reasons he can’t dodge the leave-
issue, either, “though [he says] the
Parliamentary ‘Labor’ party is not
opposed to the three-weeks’ annual-leave
principle.”
In the wool business Gair is sheltering
behind the Federal Government’s guaran-
tee that the wool will be shipped, and he
has the support of many moderate unions.
And he succeeded in getting 28 out of
47 M.L.A.s to refuse to agree to intro-
duce the three-weeks’-leave legislation,
even in the face of a threat of expulsion
from the party by the tyrannous outside
junta.
The whole party in Parliament then
received impudent questionnaires from
the Q.C.E., with a stern demand for
answers within seven days. Gair has
said that to grant the leave would mean
the imposition of an entertainment-tax
and of a means-test for hospital
treatment.
The Communist unions, and particu-
larly the Waterside Workers’, are licking
their lips in the hope that that issue may
result in a really major disruption of
Australian industry and finance, which
would accord well with their policy while
shipping and commerce are beginning to
suffer from the Suez Canal incident. It
was clear that the first test of the situa-
tion would come on October 2, with the
W.W.F.’s threatened blockade against the
shipment of Queensland wool. The crisis
on the leave-issue will no doubt come to
a head on October 12 when the Q.C.E.
meets.
Anything for o Story
Repeated postponements of the Mara-
linga tests were unfortunate for all
concerned, even for the journalists who
were itching for the story. Tempers
became a little frayed, but mostly there
was more-or-less cheerful acceptance of
the inevitable, as well as recognition that
the men in charge of the tests felt the
delay more than anyone else, but were
observing the rigid safety-precautions.
A few pressmen, however, apparently
felt there was more in the delay than
met the ear and eye, and launched out
on a series of sensational stories, several
of which were cabled overseas. There
was immediate annoyance in several
quarters associated with the tests, but
Supply Minister Beale, in categorically
denying the yarns, remarked in moderate
language that while most of those cover-
ing the test were reporting events fairly
and objectively, “a few seem to have lost
all sense of responsibility.”
Later, when Evatt hinted that the tests
might be dangerous “if the wind changed
immediately afterwards,” the Minister
was a little more emphatic about the
“misleading statements emanating from
a few of the pressmen who were cdbped-
up at Salisbury and didn’t like it.”
The significant thing about the stories
—the ' assertions that the site had been
wrongly chosen, that the scientists were
restive and threatening to resign, that
“impossible standards” had been set by
the safety-committee, that in spite of
all precautions the tests would involve
danger to life —is that whether they are
inspired by political axe-grinders or
merely by irresponsible sensation-
mongers they give aid and comfort to
the prospective enemy. Russia would
like nothing better than suspension of
atomic tests in Australia and elsewhere
(except in Russia) as a result of public
outcry. Beale told the House that the
volume and frankness of the preliminary
information on the tests had gratified
Australian newspaper-editors. When, in
spite of this, irresponsible stories which
created doubt and misgivings were
written and published there is good
reason to wonder what or who inspired
them.
Premiers 1 Voice
The political wisdom that has dis-
tinguished the leaders of the last- dozen
Victorian Governments in the press, on
the radio and at public gatherings has
seldom been distilled purely by the gentle-
men concerned.
Much of it has been the work of a
casually dressed, cheerful, grey-haired
journalist in the Spring-street offices, who
looks like a country editor —and is. He
is A. E. Barbor, whom Premiers have
called Ted, or, naturally, Ali, and he
retired last week after 15 years on the
job,
Premier Bolte interrupted Cabinet the
day Ted Barbor retired to call him in and
tell him, in effect, he had done a good
job.
Barbor must at times have felt slightly
dizzy catching-up on himself. In addition
to Bolte, he was slanging, or working for,
in those 15 years, Dunstan twice, lan
Macfarlan once, Cain thrice, Hollway
thrice, and McDonald twice. His first
Premier was Dunstan, from whom he
must have learnt a lot; Artful Albert was
a master of political guile.
None of his bosses knew (or knows)
Ted Barbor’s politics, although they are
probably countrified, since he was once
editor-owner of the Traralgon “Journal,
till he sold out to go to England as a free-
lance. He came back to be campaign
secretary to Tom Paterson’s impulsive
Liberal-Country-party venture, with John
McEwen, M.H.R., in Gippsland, after
Paterson had been dumped after his
blunder over Mrs. Freer.
Shot to Pieces
The plight of “Labor” in all the Eastern
States is not to be envied.
In Tasmania the Cosgrove. Govern-
ment has been forced to the polls by the
desertion of one of its own Ministers,
and it faces the music with the added
and dangerous competition of the Anti-
Communist “Labor” party, which gave a
taste of its influence in the Federal
election-campaign.
In Victoria, the Cain party’s attack on
the Bolte Government on quarterly-
adjustments rebounded against the
attackers, and in Queensland the Gairs
are in holts with the A.W.U. over the
shearers’ strike.
In N. S. Wales, the week has not been
helpful for the “Labor” Government or
for its Federal Opposition counterpart.
The speech of Dr. Evatt on Suez has not
contributed much to the unity of the
party.
The Cahill Government has been play-
ing the lead in the dramatisation of a
shocker of salary-grabs which might justly
be entitled “Chased by a Hurstville
Hornet.” In its mad flight for cover it
has tripped at intervals over major
obstacles —a very awkward Auditor-
General’s Report which shows that
the State finances hang perilously on the
edge of bankruptcy, that all the business
enterprises of the Government except the
Maritime Services Board show depressing
losses, and that the combined Transport
departments, despite “economies” and
fare-rises, look as if they are headed for
the big jump.
And the Government’s desperate move
to save the situation by application to
the arbitration court for variation of
the transport awards to deal with penalty-
and holiday-rates, and the introduction
into the award of a penal clause pro-
hibiting work limitations and stoppages,
has been met with the usual bullying
threat of a strike.
This small fracas was in progress while
the Parliament was giving Ministers and
members alike their substantial pay-rises
—there seemed to be not a blush avail-
able among the lot (except for Mr. Evatt!)
as they made themselves the gifts. It
was also going on while the official but
illegal caretaker A.L.P. State executive
carried out its Swat That Rebel Branch
campaign in a fight against time before
the rebels swatted it.
At the end of the week it was announced
that a new A.L.P. would be formed by
the Rank and File Movement under the
title of the Democratic Labor Party with
the backing of a number of powerful
unions including the Ironworkers. The
new body is to be unaffiliated with any
other Labor party, not even the Anti-
Communist body in Victoria. The
move puts the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment in a perilous position with which
even its arch-contortionists will have
difficulty in coping.
Combined with the dissensions in Vic-
toria and Tasmania and the revulsion of
feeling against “Labor” which the Wes-
tralian Government’s so-called anti-
profiteering law, and the troubles arising
out of Queensland “Labor’s” troubles, the
new move makes the future of Federal
“Labor” extremely gloomy.
The Doc. himself now carries every
handicap—a foreign policy approved by
the Communist party, the support of a
section of the Sydney “Tory” press and
Brother Clive.
More Betting Revenue?
Although it will not be introduced into
the Victorian Assembly until the autumn,
the outline of the bill to harness starting-
price betting in Melbourne and, later, Vic-
torian country districts is apparent in the
unanimous report to Chief Secretary
Rylah of the chief racing- and trotting-
clubs in favor of an off-the-course tote.
The plan is designed to bring revenue—
the rather optimistic estimate is £l|-
million yearly from £ 100-million turn-
over when fully established —to the
equally needy racing-clubs and State
Government. It is an open secret that
the recommendation has been prepared
chiefly by L. L. (Laurie) Chapman, former
Under-Secretary, who visited New
Zealand for the racing-clubs and knows,
both as a racing man and an ex-public
servant, what is practicable and
acceptable.
Neither Rylah nor Premier Bolte has
acknowledged acceptance of the recom-
mendation, but Rylah visited New
Zealand to see the off-course tote at first
hand, and Bolte, as a racehorse-owner, is
aware of the financial difficulties of the
clubs. Moreover, neither has ever been
classified with the Sunday-school outlook
which, under Cain, McDonald and
Dunstan, influenced the State for many
years.
In the beginning the off-course tote-
scheme would be limited to the city, with
three branches, which would be expanded
to other centres and to agents, according
to turnover offering and, eventually, to
country clubs which operate totes.
Credit-betting is, of course, out of the
question, but the oIT-course tote would
accept cash by post, by telephone against
a deposit previously made or against
dividends due, with payments on the first
convenient day after the meeting.
The clubs seek to run the scheme them-
selves with a member each from the four
Melbourne racing clubs, the Trotting
Control Board and representatives of
country-racing and -trotting interests;
but, no doubt, Government men will be
edged in, especially if the Country-party
can threaten the Government by its bal-
ance of power in the Council. It is
possible, however, that the “Labor” boys
may accept the bill. This would nullify
any Country-party opposition.
The clubs are unanimously opposed to
off-the-course legal bookmakers and are
insistent that the illegal s.-p. men must
be checked effectively to ensure the
success of the off-course tote. The clubs
themselves adopt a Sunday-school con-
science in condemning the “evils” of
illegal betting.
Bets laid off-the-course will be tele-
phoned to the racecourse tote. It is pro-
posed that agencies would have to cease
accepting bets 90 minutes before a race
and branches 75 minutes. This seems
unreasonably early—as stately a pro-
cedure, in fact, as if a Government depart-
ment had taken over.
In the Groove
“R.A.”: Visiting American sailors placed
Sydney’s first rock-’n’-roll dance in the
cream-puff class: they likened it to a
quiet Sunday night get-together "back
home,” and described the writhings on
the dance-floor as “not rock-’n -roll,
but jive to rock-’n’-roll music.” They
were obviously too polite to pass complete
censure on our teenagers by calling them
“squares.”
A lay rock-’n’-roller might draw the
distinction between jive and the latest
craze by describing rock-’n’-roll as a
more expressive and sensuous form
jive. (The current tops at rock-'n’-roll
in town are jive- and jitterbug-champs )
It could, perhaps, be described as souped-
up jive, with any dangers that it offers
being (like the “hot-rod”) in the degree
of soup-up.
Meanwhile, the rock-’n’-roll film,
“Rock Around the Clock,” has come on
the scene. For our money it is nothing
more than half-a-dozen of the “daddies
of rock-’n’-roll thrown in with a selection
of their noisiest numbers and the thinnest
suggestion of a plot as an advertisement
for the craze, and a natural for the
already-addicted. At the session we
attended —a morning-session, where the
element was in a minority there
was subdued handclapping and stamp-
ing of feet at the “crazier” tunes;
but the afternoon- and evening-sessions
are the worst. The film s Sydney
premiere was, to say the least,
rowdy: there was loud singing,
stamping of feet and clapping. Threats
were made ; burly ushers patrolled ; but
no one was thrown-out. “They’re just
having a good time,” said the theatre-
manager. “We don’t mind them singm-
and stamping and clapping their
hands.... We’re not going to have any
jitterbugging in the aisles. whut
caused the trouble overseas.
Since, there have been riotous scenes
outside the theatre ; rock-’n’-roll on the
footpath, across the tramlines and even
outside C. 1.8. headquarters in near-by
Central-lane. People have been jostled,
traffic hindered. Two youths were fined
£2 for offensive behavior as a sequel to
the worst demonstration. In England
there have been riots wherever the him
(Continued on next page)


has appeared ; some towns have banned
the film, on police advice ; the Queen is
said to have asked to see it. Over there
the craze has really taken on. One
report says that the bandsmen are “like a
tribe of demented Pied Pipers... .dragging
‘cats,’ from Mayfair debs, and young
stockbrokers to Brixton factory-hands, to
rock away the nights on stomping feet.”
In America, birthplace of the craze, a
Mr. Elvis (“The Pelvis”) Presley seems
to have reached a pathetic low as an
exponent of rock-’n’-roll songs and is
therefore netting a record high: it is
expected he will sell 10-million records
this year, and earn £178,000. He was
banned from a Pittsburgh auditorium
after girls had jumped-on and broken
700 seats.
In defence of rock-’n’-roll music a
critic reviewing a 12in. long-playing
broadside from the film regretted “that
a loutish section of the community has
caused rock-’n’-roll to be discredited. The
larrikins do some damage—the rrjusic
takes the blame. As anyone who plays
this record will soon learn, rock-’n’-roll is
no incitement to crime. It is simply bright,
noisy dance-music —the descendant of
boogie-woogie.”
There may be something in that. But
the link between our teenagers’ attitude
to these imported crazes and the high
rate of juvenile crime seems indisputable.
Now the mad car-crazes are here —
“Chicken” and “Za za,” two delightful
little games in which cars (often stolen)
are driven at one another and at pedestrian
“competitors” at ridiculously high speed
in an attempt, apparently, to discover the
chicken-hearted. Where does it end?
There is something to be said for a degree
of tolerance—the “as long as they’re
happy” school of thought. This may be
all right to the point where bodgies and
widgies wear clothes and hair-styles that
no one envies them, haunt certain milk-
bars and play the jukebox, in an attempt
to be different. But when they can only be
happy when taking part in obscene per-
formances on public streets and endanger-
ing their lives and others in abnormal
car-games, it is time the community did
a little stocktaking.
POLITCAL POINTS
He's no predaceous money-grubber,
Just a Clive of India-rubber.
• •
Sensible people, even if they hate the
thought of force or pressure, will be
relieved that Menzies has clearly
the alternatives economic sanctions,*
force or new negotiations, based on vital
principles and pressed firmly on Egypt
with the weight and power of insistence
of the civilised world behind them. The
matter cannot be finally settled by
U.N.0., which cannot of itself settle
anything, and to whose principles a large
bloc of members are false, regarding it
only as machinery to disrupt the world
and sow Communist propaganda.
• •
That paragon of impartiality in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, Speaker Lamb,
has once again added to the lustre and
dignity of his high office. His action in
joining in the Salaries debate from his
place in the Chair and accusing Clive
Evatt of “sneaking and pimping” around
Parliament House was quite in accord-
ance with the tradition which he has set
during his Speakership and which has
won him the respect of-—well, surely it
must have won him the respect of some-
one! Rafferty, perhaps.
• •
Doc. Evatt, following-on from
Menzies’s clear exposition of the Suez
situation: “It was a shocking speech. I
wonder what the Prime Minister of India
would say to it?” More important, what
would pen-friend Molotov say?
• •
Chamberlain, Federal president of the
A.L.P., says of the new Democratic Labor
party, that the people associated with it
“were never Labor men.” That applied
also to the members of the Victorian
Anti-Communist Labor party, Jt makes
one wonder how many there are still
inside the Labor party who were never
Labor men.
• •
Cahill on the same subject:
There has been no question of sitting on
the ience. If you are in the Labor move-
ment, there is only one movement.
As far as Cahill and Co. are concerned
the movement seems confined to a
shuffle.
• •
The Senate debated the Suez question
the night after the Menzies-Evatt clash.
There was no Government speaker in the
Senate, Menzies’s statement having been
read to that House the previous night,
but the “Labor” view was presented by
Senator McKenna far more effectively
than Evatt’s earlier performance. The
case against “Labor” was given by
Senator McManus, of the Anti-Com-
munist “Labor” corner; it evoked
increasing enthusiasm and appreciation
from the Government benches and inter-
jections of “warmonger” and the like
from the Opposition.
Both speakers touched on the crux
of the issue. McKenna said that “Labor”
now “outlawed” war, adding, “So far as
the 'Labor’ party is concerned, war is
gone.” Pressed to say what would
happen if U.N. intervention failed, he
said that whether it failed or not, no
nation today was entitled, with inter-
national law as it was accepted, to take
matters into its own hands and start
war. Force and war in the world today
.were unthinkable.
McManus did not miss this oppor-
tunity. He stressed that Nasser had first
used force by using troops to act against
the Suez Canal Company. He pointed
out that behind the scenes was Russia,
desperately seeking to divert Middle East
oil from Western countries because its
own output was barely sufficient for its
peace-time needs and would be entirely
insufficient for war. He agreed that the
dispute should go to U.N.0., but asked
whether, if the Security Council found it
could take no action, we would just
have to accept that situation. In reply
to “Labor” interjections he said:
If the price of protesting at the idea that
anyone who supports the essential interests
ot our country, and who believes in the
ettective defence of our country, whether
in Korea, or Malaya, or Suez, is to be
called a warmonger, we must have the
courage to stand up and be called
warmongers.
There must be many men sitting behind
Evatt who echo that in their hearts. But
why don’t they say so?
• •
Recommendations for unification of
railway-gauges to a newly-prepared
schedule will be included in a report
prepared by a private committee of Gov-
ernment back-benchers headed by Bill
Wentworth. The report won’t be a
Parliamentary paper, and the committee
hasn’t yet decided whether to make its
contents public.
• •
Cahill’s Cabinet doesn’t look like a
collection of men with broken hearts,
but according to Deputy-Premier Heffron
that’s what they are. Evatt minor is the
heart-breaker. Heffron told all on Thurs-
day :
Before he got into Cabinet and while he
was there he broke my heart and broke
the heart of everyone else who had any-
thing to do with him.
It just shows you. Those boys are not so
tough, after all. The smiles that seem to
BIG BROTHER TO LITTLE BROTHER
“But it MUST be all right. Joe passed a law!”
betoken satisfaction at their new rates
of pay are in reality merely masks to
cover their broken hearts.
• •
Tasmania’s shortest - ever election
campaign is in full swing ; nominations
closed last Thursday and the poll will be
held on Saturday week. There are 30
seats in the Assembly, each Federal
division returning six members by pro-
portional-representation. “Labor” has
nominated a team of six in each division ;
the Libs, six each in Braddon, Denison,
Franklin and Wilmot and five in Bass.
There’ll be two Anti-Communist “Labor”
candidates in Bass and three in each of
the other divisions. The rest of the
field comprises five Independents and a
Communist.
The Libs, had the luck of the draw by
securing first-place on the card in four
of the five divisions. This is less of an
advantage in Tasmania than on the main-
land. Taswegians have had p.-r. for
nearly half-a-century and are used to
scattering their numbers all over the card.
• •
Sharkey, secretary of the Australian
Communist party, addressing the Chinese
Communist-party congress in Peking, as
reported in Sydney “Tribune”:
We are learning much from the practice
of your party, especially in learning to
work with all manner of allies... .An
important feature of the Australian political
scene is the more progressive stand of the
Australian Labor party.
That must be very gratifying to those
members of the A.L.P. who accept the
assurance of their leaders that the party
is implacably opposed to Communism.
With what “allies” are the Communists
working in Australia? With thb Liberal
party? The Country party? The
Groupers?
• •
“Mugga Way”: Deeply hurt by an
assertion by Kim Beazley that Australia’s
stamps were “tjje worst in the world,”
P.M.G. Davidson protested against the
local prejudice against our stamps, and
cited many awards won by them overseas.
He said the 1949 U.P.U. commemorative
stamp had been acclaimed by a British
publication the best stamp of the year,
and that the Is. o£d. Queen Elizabeth
and the Cobb and Co. stamp had been
placed amongst the world’s 10 best for
1955, the Is. (Hd. stamp being given
first-place. For the moment Beazley had
better admit himself licked.
• •
“In the ACT”: According to the “Can-
berra Times” the most emphatic warning
Parliamentary broadcasts have given to
M.P.s is to avoid like the plague the
revelation of Parliament by TV. But,
surely, if Parliament is as bad as that
then it’s time it was revealed in its true
colors, and compelled to reform its
manners and its procedures. Exposure by
TV might do that.
• •
G. J. Coles, chairman of the multiple-
shop company, estimated at the annual
meeting in Melbourne that Cahill’s new
land-tax would add £BO,OOO a year to the
cost of retailing goods in N. S. Wales.
The company had to find £ 1.9-million in
taxes of various kinds in its latest year,
he told the meeting. This prompted the
question whether there was a Liberal or
Socialist Government in Canberra. The
answer might well be a Liberal Govern-
ment dominated by Socialist advisers.
• •
Defending his salary-grab, Cahill said
that Members of Parliament were the
only group in the community whose
salaries had not been substantially
increased since January, 1952. This is
possibly correct, but how many “groups
in the community” received a rise of
£5OO per annum in January, 1952, as the
M.L.A.s did, following on a similar lift
of £5OO p.a. in 1947? And of those
“groups in the community” which have
received rises since January, 1952, how
many have had £6OO (rate for city
M.L.A., including allowance) or £7OO to
£9OO (rates for country M.L.A.s) added to
their yearly pay? Finally, how many have
been able, by their own vote, to back-
date their increases so as to collect an
extra seven months at the higher rate?
• •
What will the Tasmanian harvest be?
The deputy leader of the Anti-Communist
“Labor” party, Senator McManus (Vic.),
who is also the sole member of the
party’s rank-and-file, told the Senate that
his leader, Senator Cole, was “engaged in
the organisation of the Tasmanian elec-
tion.” Official “Labor” Opposition
members looked a little glum at the
announcement.
• •
“Double X”: Alderman Groom’s
Brisbane City Council junta is having a
rough spin. Finances are in such a bad
way that it has embarked on a drive for
economy and efficiency, from the bottom
to the top. At the bottom the unskilled
laborer is being told to pull his weight—
or else! At the top efficiency in mayoral
and aldermanic functions is to be stimu-
lated by a salary rise of from £9 upwards
per "week. In the middle register the
trammies and bussies have staged a 24-
hour stop-work in protest against a new
duty-roster, intended to promote further
efficiency. Old-age pensioners are a
problem, too. With the rise in aldermanic
salaries eating-up another £11,750 a year
can the council really afford to allow
those pensioners who own their own
homes a rebate of Id. in the £ on their
rates? It’s very difficult being a Brisbane
alderman these days.
• •
Commonwealth light-dues on shipping
are to be doubled—from 6d. per net
registered ton per quarter to Is. This is
the first rise since 1937, although costs
of operating and improving the aids to
navigation around our 12,000-mile coast-
line have risen steeply. The new rates
will bring in about £230,000 a year, of
which 14 per cent, will come from ships
on the Australian register, but the total
amount will still be little more than half
the total cost of running the lighthouse
service.
• •
Researchers into population and migra-
tion statistics have been baffled for a
long time by the fact that the Statistician
lists as “permanent” departures any Aus-
tralians who are going abroad for more
than a year. This and other aspects of
the statistical information on migration
are now being reviewed in the hope that
a more satisfactory and illuminating
system will be devised.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Anyone inclined to
agree with the critics of Britain should
read the latest edition of the official
handbook issued by the Office of Informa-
tion in London. In its modest foreword
it does not claim to be comprehensive or
to describe the part played by Britain
in Commonwealth and world affairs. But
it does set out, in an impressive summary,
convincingly illustrated, something of the
facets of national administration and
national economy, and the part played
by the Government in the life of the
community. In almost 500 pages the
story is set out without any trumpeting or
false modesty. It is largely a story of
fine achievement. It is, at the least, an
affirmation that drive and initiative are
not lacking in Britain today, either in
administrative circles or in the larger
fields ofcommerce and industry.


RE-TRIAL
“Today, October 3, ‘Ned Kelly,’ by Douglas
Stewart, opens at the Elizabethan Theatre,
Sydney.”
Ned Kelly was too tender
For the harsh Victorian State;
He could not safely go to work
Except in armor-plate.
As a banker he was harried
By the lords of high-finance;
As a stock-and-station dealer
He never had a chance.
As an armaments-producer
He might have found his feet,
But the people in the business
Didn’t want him to compete.
They got him down to Melbourne
And with lawyerly pretence
They made a lot of charges
And they left him in suspense.
Then Douglas Stewart took the case
And, after all these years,
At last in Sydney Ned will face
A jury of his peers.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Accidentally dial-twiddled into
the Senate, and was startled to hear
a Senator’s sombre speech interrupted by
a rather hoarse whisper beseeching, “A
small one, Jack. A small one!” Is
whisky served in the Chamber? No ;
that would have called for “When!” It
must have been coffee, to keep them
awake.—“G.M.”
♦j,
“McAlec”: One of Sydney’s new-
season two-year-olds is named Docker:
he’s by Ruthless (imp.) out of Gold
Shoes. •
❖ ❖ *
“Mac Hoots”: I am intrigued by the
notice “Fur Manner Verboten” which
has lately appeared on the Ladies’ in
Sydney Botanic Gardens. I can under-
stand that Germanic immigrants must be
stopped from blundering in; but does
it mean that if you’re a Frenchman or
an Italian they just don’t care?
❖ ❖ »>
“Bedfo”: The Olympic swimming-
pool won’t be ready to swim in for a
couple of weeks, although 300,000 gallons
of Melbourne’s drinking-water has poured
into it; it’s not clear enough for swim-
ming! This confirms Batman’s early
opinion, that Melbourne is the village for
a spot.
❖ ❖ »>
“Maitri”: A woman-member of my
household who never misses church unless
she’s sick was impressed when an eminent
divine said in a Sunday newspaper that
life had become such a welter of rush and
bustle that we had no time left to “stand
and stare.” She took the admonishment
to heart, cut-out church, and spent the
morning in bed.
♦> ❖ ❖
“D.J.G.”: Pasties have gone up a penny
to one-shilling each in Melbourne. In
my youth they were twopence, and they
were pasties—home-made pastry enclos-
ing a mouth-watering mixture of meat,
gravy, onion, carrot —but there’s sound
reason for the price-rise: those I have
sampled in recent years have contained
about a quarter-of-a-pound of potatoes
and nothing else; maybe they developed
the spud-pastry because it was cheaper . . .
*i* *X*
“Emtee”: Two impeccably dressed
policewomen walking briskly through our
city to collect a child reported
lost were stopped by an
elderly matron and handed
yet another toddler who had
been discovered wandering
by himself. Later in the
day I saw the two police
lasses absorbed in a deep
study of a tray of engage-
ment-rings in a jeweller’s
window. It always surprises
me when nurses get married,
also.
❖ *> ♦♦♦
“Glen”: Beer-shampoo,
bottled and in sachets,
guaranteed to impart a
Continental sheen to Milady’s
hair, is claimed to be an
instant pick-me-up for dry,
brittle hair. It’s odorless.
Pity about the soapy
taste . . .
“Ranger” takes the liberty to assure
“Doric” (B. 12/9/’56) that he himself
proved the possibility of reaching that
obelisk in the Place de la Concorde with
unbroken bones despite Paris taxi-driving
verve. “Doric’s” information that many
have failed to return alive from the spot
is nevertheless correct, for it is just about
there that the guillotine stood. One thing
that is hard to find there or elsewhere,
however, is any reference to the
“Terror.” Admittedly there is a Revolu-
tion monument in the square where stood
the Bastille; the inscription on it,
however, refers to other violent goings-
on : what occurred on three glorious days
in 1830.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Taroom”: “Kate’s” interior-decorator
(B. 12/9/’56), whose third waistcoat-
button is 4ft. 6in. above floor-level, must
be about Bft. lOin. tall. One can check
this by imagining Marilyn Monroe stand-
ing fence-post tops level with her most
publicised features. I find that my
anatomy, although not quite the same
as Marilyn’s, gives the tops a height of
about 4ft
♦> *X* **
“An Chuidh”: If phonetic spelling (B.
12/9/’56) is not correct it’s time for a
few alterations. Why shouldn’t “c” say
“k” all the time, and leave “s” to say
“s”? Why write “ceiling” when “seiling”
is nearer the mark? Why not spell “ice”
as “ise”? Why persist in obsolete “er”
endings when everybody uses the “a”
ending? The “or”s, “ow”s, “er”s, have
all become “a.” The terminal “g” in “ing”
is seldom pronounced, the “en” ending
being the norm now. Other terminal
letters are now lost in speech, such as
“d” in “and.” Bad spellen is more a sign
of an obselete spellen code than anything
else.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Arthur R.”: While testing the
telegraph-line between Sydney and Mel-
“Would you mind removing your hat ?”
bourne some years ago the testing-officer
made a note in his log to the effect that
while Sydney could “receive us perfectly,
us could not hear Sydney.” Another of
the high-ups of those days reported a
telegraphist for “being away from his
position when he should have been on his
line smoking.” A motto which has lasted
for years was coined by a supervisor:
“Them wot’s loyal t’ me I treats ’em
proper.” Maybe the present “promotion
by ability, rather than by seniority,” has
something to commend it.
*X* *X* ❖
“Rew”: “Wusslean’s” tram-traveller
(B. 12/9/’56) could find other instances
besides the Test cricket-team of preference
for names beginning A-to-M. Electoral-
rolls and telephone-directories indicate
that about two-thirds of the population
are A-Ms. In the House of Representa-
tives this section owns 97 out of 125
members, and last May Queensland
elected 57 A-Ms to a House of 75. The
second 13 have more than their share in
the Senate —25 out of 60.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“0.W.W.”: A neat point was raised
in an Auckland (N.Z.) court when a
naval civilian canteen-worker was
charged with using obscene words
within hearing of persons in a public
place—a tape-recording of blue ditties at
a garden fete. The voice
was not that of the man
accused, and his counsel
submitted that if the
section under which the
charge was laid was
meant to cover the situa-
tion, people would also
be committing offences
who had their radios
turned loud enough to
be heard outside when a
well-known All Black
described his physical
condition after the fourth
Rugby Union Test. The
Beak was still pondering
these high matters when
this par. was written.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Pip Tok”: Conduct-
money (B. 5/9/’56) re-
minds me of Slosher,
whom I met outside our
pub on a sweltering day
during the depression. I
was quite prepared to
act as host, but before I
could produce the
wherewithal Slosher
plonked a bob on the counter and
ordered two pints. “What? Are you in
funds?” I asked. “No, worse luck. 1
got this out of my most exacting credi-
tor.” Seeing my puzzled look he
explained, “It came with the summons.”
In those days a pint was sixpence and
conduct-money was a bob-a-time.
“Mugga Way”: Plenty of inventors
could do worse than follow the example
of Sir William Wallace, the Scots engineer
who received an honorary degree at
Edinburgh at the hands of the Duke of
Edinburgh. His firm has specialised in
catapults for | launching aircraft from
ships, and in the laureation address it
was mentioned that not only had he
escaped after 56 hours in a sunken sub.
in World War I but that he had insisted
on being catapulted in every type of
catapult he designed and manufactured.
* * ❖
“Bookie’s Dog”: The A.R.U., which,
of course, stands four-square for the
rights of “the workers,” has called a
one-day stoppage of trains in Victoria
on Melbourne Cup Day. Perhaps that
is not as Gilbertian as it seems. Just
who do drive most of the cars these
days?
* ❖
“Cash Count”: “The Man Outside
Hoyts,” who after 49 years has become
the man who isn’t there, often lured me
inside that Bourke-street, Melbourne,
address. Sometimes on the way out I
felt like asking him if he was talking
about the same film I had just endured.
* * ❖
“M.N.G.”: American magazine
“Time” reports that a TV organisation
in the U.S. has paid 20-million dollars for
725 film “classics,” all made before
1949, and many as far back as the early
’thirties. Some of these films are no
doubt worth reviving, but a good many
of the 725 must surely be well and truly
worn-out. If the TV tycoons in America
have to scrape the bottom of the enter-
tainment-barrel in this way, I tremble to
think of the outlook for television in this
country.
» * ❖
“Rainbow”: Pamela’s grandfather,
unlike Christine’s “Fitz” (B. 19/9/’56), is
a lucky 2500 miles away, but Dad has
fallen for a new bedlamp and a weekend
at the Hotel Australia for her birthday.
Of course she’s older and more
sophisticated than Christine —Pamela win
be eight at the coming birthday, p.s. Do
children play with toys any more?
♦♦♦ ❖
“Blufire”: A Melbourne firm has gone
all poetical with its accounts, adding
this rhyming request:
Cast not aside or let unnoticed lay
This bill, for we, like you, have to pa>
Unpaid accounts to coolness often
So square this off and let’s all be friend v
To which the unwilling debtor might
reply:
Your faulty numbers lead me to suspect
Your figures, also, may not be corr
Accounting has its own peculiar sy
I’ll check yours first, and then get down to
tintacks.


AN eye-specialist who has practised
most of his specialised branch
of medicine in the Middle East
is most impressed with the sprightliness
of the aged in Australia, and the excel-
lence of their vision in ratio thereto. Of
two octogenarian women-patients one
had taken up music to help while-away
her old-age, and needed some specs, to
help her see the more spindly notes;
while the other only needs ’em in the
winter: she can’t quite see the numbers
on the backs of the players at the foot-
ball. —“Sister Ellell.”
*l* *z+ *&
“Stives”: What on earth did the land-
agent mean when he offered in the “S. M.
Herald an imposing residence at North-
bridge, with water-views and rumpus-
rooms, "designed for the Duke of Plaza
' oro
v *** *
“Lorna Doone”: During South Aus-
ttalia’s Show-week the cafeteria was
busting-out all over. A harassed mother
directed her three children to a small
space at a table. Putting down the
sample-bags and their plates before them,
she said,J‘Now! Sit up; eat up; and
lut up!”
“Rkol”: U.S. traffic-expert Ralph T.
Dorsey, imported by Melbourne City
Council to advise on traffic problems, has
slipped away without the fanfare of his
famous namesake Tommy. But already
traffic is dancing to his signature-tune. At
the main thoroughfares, and at Flinders-
street Station, “walk” and “wait” signals
catch and confuse the less-nimble in a
stream of cross-traffic. Kerb-chains cause
congestion on the pavements in front of
Bourke-street stores. Safety-crossings are
differently interpreted by almost every
municipality, so that you are dead or
alive according to your neighborhood.
Many more city parking-areas are likely
to be “declared” —i.e., priced and ticketed.
There are other things you can pay too
high a price for besides peace.
*Z* ❖ *
“Willpar”: On a Southern Line train
to Mittagong, which took an hpur and
twenty minutes to get from Sydney
Central to Liverpool, I had plenty of
time to meditate upon the pictures framed
above the seats, and to drink in the
beauties of their captions ; e.g.:
The lazy rollers of the Pacific carelessly
spread her dainty skirts of snowy lace on the
golden sands of Whale Beach, which nestles
in lhe picturesque headlands eighteen miles
north of Sydney.
You wouldn’t read about it.
<* »>
“Becks”: It was probably not mere
coincidence that “Freddie” (B. 26/9/’56),
on meeting C. B. Fry in 1919, found him
handsome “after the fashion of contem-
porary schoolboy heroes, as illustrated
in ‘8.0.P.’ and ‘Chums.’ ” Illustrators,
then as now, were not above using popular
figures as models for the fictional
characters they were asked to depict.
Nowadays film-stars are the natural
choice, but 40 or 50 years ago the ready-
made models whose photographs appeared
in the papers and on cigarette-cards were
the prominent sportsmen of the period.
And who more likely to be chosen by
an artist in search of a typical English
sportsman than C. B. Fry, the glamor
cricketer of his day?
+£<•
“C.A.L.”: Because Perth’s main
suburbs and the big new residential areas
are remote from the railways thousands of
school-age children have never travelled
on a train, and the W.A.G.R. can thank
Don Cornell and his rhapsodising of the
“Rock Island Line” o.n wireless pro-
grammes twice a day and three times on
Sundays for introducing many of the
children to rail-travel during their holi-
days. Railways officials say that mothers
took their offspring on return rail-trips,
without leaving the trains at the termini,
solely to give the youngsters a taste of
rail-travel. But what disappointed many
was they still hadn’t enjoyed the sensation
of the rock-and-roll of a steam-train, for
most suburban schedules are served by
cbeseb
* * *
“Maitri”: Please, “A.W.” (B. .12/9/’56),
don’t think I’m decrying Handel because
I maintain his “Hallelujah Chorus” is
simple—what’s wrong with simple things,
anyhow? When I.see an audience jump
“ Well , I suppose We SHOULD look at the manes and hocks as Well."
to its feet as soon as it hears the opening
bars, as George I did when he. first heard
it, I wonder if it isn’t also an act of faith.
Cyril Scott evidently thought the
“Hallelujah” was simple enough, though
I don’t agree when in his Influence of
Music he claims it might have been com-
posed by a young lady at a girls’ school.
“Doynest”: A wordy war is raging in
our Melbourne suburban paper over the
yacht-club’s efforts to obtain a liquor-
licence in time for the Olympic Games.
Arguments that made the granting of the
licence seem a foregone conclusion were
answered the following week: —-
Is this licence being sought merely to
entertain a few red-nosed commodores from
overseas? Will the club ask for the
cancellation of the licence as soon as these
rummy old chaps go home?
❖ ♦>
“Ardoyne”: For the last half-dozen
episodes in my evening paper Davy
Crockett has been vainly racking his
brains to prove his identity to his captors,
well-meaning sailors, and thereby escape
being hanged as a pirate. Tonight, it
appears, he will avoid that ignominious
end by the chance arrival of an old
acquaintance. Quick-witted backwoods-
man —huh! A city softie like Dagwood
Bumstead would talk himself out of a
jam like that in a single strip.
♦Jt *Z*
“Rix”: “Rimutuka” (B. 12/9/’56),
who asks why the bridegroom usually
pays for the blankets when the bride
buys the rest of the household-linen,
should not have much trouble getting an
answer from any wife of a few years’
standing. According to most of the
women I’ve met, it’s common knowledge
who has the bigger share of the blankets
in the cold nights that are so reluctant
to leave us this year.
$ {4
“Doormat”: The group of Melbourne
newsboys who issued a directive against
selling 16 sexy magazines have held their
ground. Sceptics said the “juvenile
revolution” would last only a week or
two, but it is spreading into three months
and they have added to their ranks.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: The girl on the suburban
train was more than usually pretty, so I
wasn’t surprised to see that she was
escorted by a tall, dark young man with
a Cornel Wilde haircut and Elvis (‘The
Pelvis”) Presley royal-blue suede shoes.
They made a delightfully romantic-
looking couple—l just wished he hadn’t
spent the whole of the half-hour journey
cleaning his nails and pushing back the
cuticles with a train-ticket, using each
comer in turn. Frank Sinatra would
at least have used a divorce-subpoena.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Smithy”: To bring “Pioneer Paddy’s”
little poem (B. 12/9/’56) up-to-date: Ah
Ham and Co. still serve Hobart people
well, but Wah Shing no longer lives up
to his name. About four years ago this
little shrivelled speck of humanity was
admitted to the same hospital-ward as
mine; not long afterwards he bought
a one-way-ticket to the abode of his
illustrious ancestors. No longer does his
name advertise his business in North
Hobart, and most people have almost
forgotten him, but I still remember the
beautiful dress-shirts he used to allow
me to wear for “two-bob, sic-pen.”
“Wusslean”: Full-dress rehearsals are
rarely satisfying, and a trial-run for the
banquet which Melbourne’s Lud Mayor
Selleck will give to the members of the
International Olympic Committee in
November, in which 17 city councillors
and civic leaders rehearsed the full bill-of-
fare —canapes, oysters, grilled barra-
mundi, ice-bombe Olympic, and other
items —to be served to the Olympic guests,
must have left them completely fed-up.
❖ ❖ »;«
“Rimutuka”: In one of Brisbane’s less
fashionable suburbs, there is a boarding-
house with a unique fence. All the
pickets are cast in cement, each a large
and shapely woman’s leg—so in all;
obviously dating from the days when
a woman’s leg constituted a surprising
disclosure.
<£♦
“Fitz”: “Mummy tells me,” said
Christine, my granddaughter, “that
you’ve been getting a few bob writing
things about me in The Bulletin. Daddy
said, ‘So the old bloke has been earning
himself some beer-money,’ ” I said, “It
wasn’t much, just a few shillings.”
“Well,” said Christine, pointing to a
“Fitz” paragraph, “how much would
you get for that?” “Oh, about six- or
seven-bob,” I said. “Umph!” snorted
Christine. “That’s an awful lot of money
to spend on beer. Down at the paper-
shop there’s a lovely little pencil-case for
only five-and-eleven . . . !”
❖ ❖ *X* '
“Lorna Doone”: Discussion settled
on the pros and cons of drive-in theatres ;
they got a real boost as being the ideal
medium for a comedy, in that the wise-
cracks are not lost in the laughter of the
crowd.
“Vidi”: Member of a deputation, I
arrived in the middle of a naturalisation
ceremony and stood at the entrance to
the overflowing Shire Hall. The Shire
President made a speech about freedom,
peace and brotherhood and told the
almost-New Australians that they would
be required to renounce allegiance to
their former countries. What were their
thoughts and feelings at this culmination
of a big decision in their lives? The
ceremony proceeded coldly. In small
groups allegiances were renounced and
allegiance to the Queen declared before
a silent Old Australian audience. A man
and his wife, Italian-looking, threaded
their way to the rear of the hall clutching
their certificates of naturalisation, passed
by me and began to descend the stairs.
On impulse I leant over the banisters,
patted the man on the shoulder, and said,
“Congratulations!” Several other voices
followed suit, then many in chorus.
“Thank you! Thank you very much,”
he said. He couldn’t have sounded more
appreciative if we had guaranteed him
security for life.
A DIM VIEW
Arts that are static tend to die.
That’s my belief; and that’s why I
Re[oiced to see the start of television.
With eye to reinforce the ear
Its strong advantages were clear.
And so to buy a set l made decision.
I had no wish to view two pugs
Slugging away at chins and lugs,
Mokes rushing round, or politicians
yapping;
A frenzied mob of football fans,
A gathering o’ the Hielan ’ clans,
Or exploits of Olympic athletes
strapping.
Culture, I deemed, might now get more
Scope than it ever had before
To get its message over to the masses.
I hoped, for instance, they'd protract
A really thrilling strip-tease act
(And, as a mind-improver, this
surpasses
All other intellectual things).
And, ah! When television brings
(l thought) to men who have an eye
for beauties
A snappy mannequin-parade
In which there’d nicely be displayed
Bikinis on a bunch of shapely cuties !
My aerial up, my set set right,
I switched it on that very night
And sat and gazed, gripped in a deep
enthralment.
At last, the serial-action sped,
The announcer came and, pointing, said :
“Now, viewers, don’t forget the next
INSTALMENT /”
Well, that wrecked it! Could l wring
Any pleasure from a thing
That trumpets a reminder every session
That if / should fail to keep
Regular payments up, I’ll reap
The penalty of ruthless repossession ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
m
mxamlAA
NPV3OI
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent
PERSONAL ITEMS
IN THE TOP JOBS
T. G. Carter, re-elected chairman of
the Australian Wool Bureau, now has so
many top jobs in wool and graziers’
organisations that they take up most of
his time. His son manages Linton South,
Barraba (N.S.W.), part of the old Linton
property where T.G. was born. Manages
it, the father volunteers, very well. He’s
made improved-pasture grow where it
never grew before, using Yeomans’s Key-
line technique. The Carters have always
bred fine-wool Merinos, of the Tasmanian
type, and the present stud (founded on
Brindley Park and Old Winton blood, with
later importations from Zara before
Officer switched to Peppins) has been kept
pure ; one of the few studs of the old
breed in the State. He’s inclined to think
the day of the really fine Merino may be
coming back, to some extent. From
conversation at a recent textile conference
in Zurich (which he addressed) he gathered
that manufacturers are becoming uneasy
at the limited amount of fine to super-
fine on the market. The remedy, he told
them, was in their own hands: pay
premium prices. A lieutenant in the old
46th Bn., T.G. won his M.C. at Bullecourt.
• •
Appropriately, perhaps, the head of the
new Australian Coastal Shipping Com-
mission is an expert on salvage —the well-
known Captain J. P„ Williams, of Mel-
bourne. Among other things, he’s the
skipper who raised £2,396,000 in bullion
from the Niagara, sunk off the New
Zealand coast.
• •
J. B. Were and Son, the Melbourne
stockbrokers, have reprinted W. S.
Robinson’s notable Letter to the Editor
(Melbourne “Herald”), in which he
stated in robust and challenging terms his
faith in Australia. For a man who left
journalism in 1906 (he had succeeded his
father as financial editor of “The Age”),
Robinson certainly made a stir when he
re-entered it 50 years later.
His name is William Sydney Robinson,
and his friends call him “W. 5.,” or “Billy.”
From his newspaper photographs, he
could be envisaged as a big, broad,
square-jawed Napoleon of mining
finance, but, although he still has Aus-
tralian mining at his touch, and a jaw,
he is now a slight, grey-haired chap, who
gives the impression in casual conversation
that he would be good fun at dinner.
The Puckish touch may be due to the
fact that he has yielded most of the
responsibility for his mining leadership
to his son, Lyell, and has retired to
Arundel Farm, Keilor, on Melbourne’s
outskirts, to write and read ; to fish at
Portsea ; to back winners and losers;
and to fly over the land in a private
aircraft.
It is a comfortable but well-earned
retirement after a strenuous life: agri-
cultural graduate, journalist, London
stockbroker, leader of Consolidated Zinc
Corporation, Burma Corporation, New
Broken Hill Consolidated, National
Smelting Co., Imperial Smelting Co. He
has camped over much of the nation,
and has been adviser to such Empire
figures as Churchill, Curtin, Menzies,
Chifley, Chamberlain and Billy Hughes:
indicating his distaste, when a continent
had to be developed, for the triviality of
party politics.
In' 1949 the “Financial Times” sug-
gested Australia should build a statue to
him at Broken Hill because he was one
of the real creators of Australian industry.
It isn’t necessary now that he has done
so much towards assuring the permanency
of Broken Hill. It’s a monument itself.
• •
Dr. M. S. Thacker, Director of the
Indian Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research, who is now visiting
Australia, is 52, an engineering graduate
of Bristol University who stayed in Eng-
land to do post-graduate work in
electrical engineering and later worked
with the Bristol Corporation, went back
to India in 1931, worked with the Calcutta
Electricity-supply Corporation, became
Professor of Power Engineering at the
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
(later Director), and succeeded Sir Shanti
Bhatnagar, F.R.S., as Director of the
Indian C.S.I.R. last year.
• •
“J.D.W.”: Sir Heaton Rhodes, at 95,
didn’t go into the Silence at Wellington
(B. 8/ 8 / ’56), but at his homestead,
Otahuna, Tai Tapu, a few miles out of
Christchurch. Not far as the crow flies
from Purau, where the
G.O.M. was bora in 1861,
the Tai Tapu property
came into his hands in 1894.
“I have planted every-
thing that is on it except
the old bluegums at the
back, which are twenty-
four-feet in circumference,”
he told me a couple of years
ago. Around the home-
stead, the marriage of exotic
and native trees has made
Otahuna a place of world-
renown. There, in the
spring, daffodils in pro-
fusion have earned hundreds
of pounds for welfare
organisations. But primarily
it has been a farming
property, and up to the last
Sir Heaton boasted of the
dual-purpose Norfolk Red
Polls (“You can milk them
until they are very old and
then sell them”), Corrie-
dales, and English Leicesters.
No, the old man was too
much a true country-squire
to forsake Otahuna in his
declining years.
• •
Here to put in 18 months
cycling round Australia,
Walter Cowan, 69-year-old
retired businessman of
Storling, Scotland. He took up cycling
again after a lapse of 30 years, and last
year ran his machine in for the Australian
tour by pedalling from John o’ Groats
to Land’s End.
“Fitz”: Twenty-eight years ago two young
women, Flora Sydney Eldershaw, mistress at
the Croydon (Sydney) P.L.C., and Marjorie
Faith Barnard, librarian at Sydney Technical
College, both Sydney University graduates, sub-
mitted a novel, A House Is Built one of
entries—to the first Bulletin novel-competition
under the pen-name “Faith Sidney. tn
judges said: “Our first choice is A
Built, an Australian prose epic of marked literary
quality.” The judges’ second choice, Katharine
Susannah Prichard’s Coonardoo, was considered
to be of “such great merit” that The Bulletin
decided to award two first-prizes, adding the
additional money to make £500 for each of them.
Vance Palmer’s Men Are Human was thud.
A House Is Built, which took 12 years to write,
ran as a Bulletin serial under the title or the
Quartermaster,” with illustrations by Norman
Lindsay. Writing as “M. Barnard Eldershaw
the two authors, wrote four other novels in
collaboration — Green Memory (1931), the
Glasshouse (1936), Plaque with Laurel (1937)
and Tomorrow and Tomorrow (1947). rlora
Eldershaw and Marjorie Barnard also wrote
together Essays in Australian Fiction (1938),
Phillip of Australia (1938), My Australia (1939),
and The Life and Times of Captain John Piper
(1939).
I was secretary to the 1928 Bulletin novel-
competition when 1 first met Flora Eldershaw.
Later, as secretary of the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers (N.S.W.) and of the 1938 N.S.W.
Sesqui-Centenary literary competitions, 1 ire-
quently met her. Flora Eldershaw was not
only a writer of great distinction, she was a fine
Australian—an independent thinker, warm-
hearted, and possessing a rich, jolly sense of
humor. Her death a week or so ago at Wagga
(N.S.W.) was a major loss to Australian writing.
Sighted in a Bulletin corridor last
week, the brown and cheerful phiz of Bill
Harney, celebrated Territorian, back from
England, where he had almost two hours
of broadcasting over the B.B.C., and
where he left an MS. with his publisher.
Hopping over to Ireland, which also
fascinated him, he talked another 45min.
on the air there.
• •
Douglas Stewart, whose “Ned Kelly”
begins its Elizabethan season in Sydney
tonight (Wednesday), joined The
Bulletin in 1939, from London, where
he had been bar-tending, sleeping in
packing-cases, and otherwise diverting
himself in pursuit of the evergreen
ambition of young men from this part
of the world to make a name in Fleet-
street. He didn’t; and a very good thing,
too. Otherwise this distinctively Aus-
tralian drama would never have been
written.
Son of a solicitor at Eltham, a smallish
place planted in a green, cow-pasturing
countryside near Mt. Egmont (N.Z.),
Stewart tackled law himself, at Victoria
An unfinished pencil-sketch by Norman Lindsay,
using DOUGLAS STEWART as a model for one of
Norman's groups in a large painting.
College, parted from it with respect but
no deep regret, and began journalism on
the Eltham “Argus.” Left to tour with
a merry-go-round, was sacked near North
Auckland, continued on foot and spent
some time in a Maori village (‘‘The
Whare,” a short-story, and, less directly,
much of the comedy of The Golden
Lover, derive from this experience), edited
a country paper, covered scandalous
doings for N.Z. “Truth,” and worked his
passage to England. In the meantime,
he’d been writing and reading. His
Green Lions was published in 1936;
some five years earlier, when he was 18,
The Bulletin first published one of his
poems, and he joined the paper as a
regular contributor. With his journa-
listic work considered, his output of pub-
lished work since then would be
remarkable on the score of quantity
alone: plays, short-stories, essays and
sundry books of his poems.
It is a measure of the difficulties
literary-historians must face that, at the
moment, with both his predecessor and
himself on the premises, one cannot
pinpoint exactly when Douglas Stewart
took over the “Red Page”; evidently
somewhere in the early- 1940’5. Anyway,
with time out for marriage (to artist
Margaret Coen), outburst of trout-fishing,
and a Unesco-sponsored tour of U.K.
and Europe, Douglas Stewart has con-
ducted that part of the paper continuously
since.
• •
Walter J. Meehan, who has passed on
in Melbourne at 66, was one of the
Commonwealth Bank’s original staff.
Born at Happy Valley, Ballarat (Vic.), he
served in most of the States and was one
of the founders of the Commonwealth
Bank Officers’ Association, of which he
was president for many years. When he
retired, through ill-health, he was Vic-
torian manager of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank. A Bulletin contributor,
he sent in a par. shortly before his death.
• •
“Allan B.”: Following Dad’s footsteps,
Peter Nelson Thwaites has been
appointed head of Ballarat (Vic.) College
—his father was in the same job from
1933 to 1945. Giving up his position as
head of W.A.’s Guildford Grammar, the
new boss for Ballarat will bring his wife
and three youngsters east, and begin
with the new term next year. He started
school at Geelong Grammar, and was
teaching there when he got the Gowrie
scholarship which took him to England:
at Melbourne Uni. he’d collected the
Dixson scholarship in maths., got his
Dip. Ed., and was in the Uni. athletics
team for 1937. He took an M.A. at
Oxford, joined the War II Royal Navy,
served in the Atlantic, and later trans-
ferred to the R.A.N., finishing-up as a
lieutenant. He’s now 39.
• •
Walter Killough, managing-director of
International Harvester Co. of Australia,
gave a luncheon for some of the staff
who have been there a good while
least restless, C. L. (Les) Read and
R. P. S. (Bob) Dawson, with 50 years
each ; C, (Cal) Johnson, a Yank with 30
years, and W. G. (Bill) Moeller, with 25
years. M. C. (Mervj Lee, Alistair
MacLeod, D. P. (Don) McStocker and
G. W. (George) Seemeyer were compara-
tive office-boys, with a mere 20 years
each, but they were invited along to
encourage them on the next 30 years.
Ten other executives present at the
luncheon had 270 years of service
between them ; and when all was totalled
it was found the boys present had
weighed-in with 505 years.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 68, W. T. McConnell,
manager of Victorian Tourist Bureau lor -
years before he ,retired in 1953.
At 62, in Wellington (N.Z.), surgeon Sydney
D. Rhind, F.R.C.S., F.R.A.C.S., War I ML,
editor of the N.Z. “Medical Journal tor many
years, and executive-officer of the N.Z. brancn
of the B.M.A.
At Dalby (Q.), Mrs. H. M. Kath, well known
for her work for the C.W.A. in Queenslan ,
president of the Dalby branch for many years.
She was born at Jimbour, on the Darling Downs.
In Melbourne, at 89, Jack Anwin, one of Vic-
toria’s best jockeys around the turn of tn
century: he rode his first race in t°®4,
Caulfield. His best win was the 1889 Melbourne
Cup, on Bravo, when the defeated included
Carbine, winner of the Cup the following y
At Ballarat (Vic.), at 50, Maude Sheahan
Richmond (V.F.L.) star of other days, and one
of the best fullbacks of any period. Played i-i
games in eight years with the Tigers, was in
1932 and 1934 premiership sides, and
did a good deal of coaching.


« «
EXCUSE ME DEAR •
" EXCUSE ME.
DEAR. ,r
"EXCUSE
ME. V
DEAR.'
"excuse me,
I DEAR"
PURSUIT OF LEISURE


ABORIGINALITIES
THOR early records on birds or bush-
rangers, executions or explorations,
you go in Sydney to the Mitchell Library,
which exists because of the benefactions
of David Scott Mitchell, grandson of a
Caledonian pioneer named Helenus Scott,
who, with his brother Robert, received
grants in the Hunter Valley in the 1820’s.
The Scotts built well, not only in stone-
their original homestead, Glendon House,
is still lived in—but in citizenship ; years
afterwards freed men came back to the
valley to thank the Scotts for the way
they had been treated when assigned to
Glendon. Robert died there in 1844;
later, Helenus gave free to his tenants
that magnificent belt of alluvial country
now known as Scott’s Flat. All of which
may have nothing whatever to do with the
fact that just now, on the little hill that
looks across the valley where kindness
and courage became a tradition, the
yellow-tailed tomtits have chosen as their
home-site for this season the pine-branch
that bends low over the grave of the
brothers Scott. — “Wippegong.”
* * * *
“Two Jays”: Passed through a small
Western District (Vic.) town today, and
noticed three different ways of spelling
its name within a couple of hundred
yards. At the approach it is Pirron
Yall ock, on the garage it is Pirron
Yalloak, and on the school it is Pirron
Yo/oak. Can any P.Y. resident tell us the
correct spelling?
Pipe all hands, Mister—this'll save dry-dock fees!”
“Bass”: This year Broome pearlers,
forced to go farther afield, are working
the Cossack beds in numbers for the first
time since before the war; and they’re
getting good hauls. The shell is almost
up to the standard of the Broome beds,
and it’s plentiful, so evidently the beds
have recovered from the hammering they
took between the wars, and which left
them almost exhausted. They were good
beds once, and can be
again if they’re worked
systematically and not
greedily; and they
haven’t the sudden
holes in the floor that
gave King Sound, at
Derby, the name of
being a “graveyard.”
in the days of hand-
compressors those deep
holes sent many a diver
to his death, crushed by
pressure that the hand-
pumps couldn’t cope
with quickly enough;
machine - compressors
have largely overcome
the danger, but you
still can’t beat an even
floor for pearling.
* *
“Zake”: It would be
no exaggeration to
claim that , young Bart,
not long out from
Devon, wasn’t exactly
an experienced angler.
Hicks, his cocky-boss,
had taken him out for
a spot of river-fishing.
Hicks had rigged* f both
rods himself, baited,
cast out and handed one
to his employee. They were sitting facing
opposite vistas and thinking silently about
this and that, as those that cast hooks
into fluid should, when Bart came to
vocal life, after a long and thoughtful
study of the placid stream. “That theer
painted thing that ’ee put halfway down
line,” he ventured slowly, “is it very
expensive to buy?” The boss assured
him it wasn’t. Choom heaved a deep
sigh. “Ah’m real glahd,” he replied
fervently. “Ah was thinking half my
wages might be docked. The wan I had
on my line has gone and soonk!”
* * * *
“Zend-Avesta”: It wasn’t until I read
Mark Crowley’s translation of
Maupassant’s classic short - story
“Mademoiselle Fifi” in “Clubman” (Lon-
don), No. 42, page 44, that I realised there
must have been a touch of the Jules Verne
in Maupassant. Yes, Maup. foretold the
military-truck:
At ten past six the captain at last heard
the distant sound of the returning lorry. All
of them, Mam’selle Fifi in the lead, hurried
to the window. Soon the lorry drove up,
muddy to the top of the cab, and the
radiator steaming.
Chances are that’s how the Squareheads
won the Franco-Prussian war—the lorry
was their secret-weapon.
* * * *
“McKim”: How unlucky can you be!
A lump of coal bumped off the tender
of an express-train on the northern line in
N. S. Wales, hit the face of a cutting, and
bounced back on to the window of a
carriage. Two passengers were cut by
glass splinters.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: It is gratifying to learn
from “Kelms” (B. 12/9/’56) that the
numbat, the quokka and the wambenga,
the quenga and the mundarda are increas-
ing in numbers among the wandoo and
yate, karri, jarrah and tuart, but what
about the tamar? It may be that the
atom-bombs, are stirring them up over
in the West, but 1 got a surprise the
other day when I came across a wonga,
“Stop aggravatin' them animals!"
right here in the wallum —I had not seen
one for years. Also, from the U.S., where
there have been lots of bomb-bursts, I
learn that the side-winder and the hell-
bender are just keeping their ends up, and
in still-bombless lands the aye-aye and
the dik-dik are holding their own, while
muntjak, kinkajou, pygarg and quagga are
neither scarcer nor more plentiful, all
being fully firm at recent rates. Now,
speeding along the highway, there goes
an old white prad, closely followed by
a squealing, squeaking shandrydan, carry-
ing me back to the far distant day when
Roberty-Bob, the blacktracker, inquired,
“You bin make-a-light ol’-man flour-bag
yarraman belongin’-to-mine?” and I, in
my ignorance, could only reply, “What-
name you yabber?” Being still some-
thing of an ignoramus, I would ask
“Kelms,” before he asks me, the same
question, “What are you talking about?”
* * • •
“Kelms”: A ' joint Australian-
American-Japanese company aiming at
producing culture-pearls in Australian
waters has commenced operations on
Augustus Island, about 200 miles north of
Broome ; a specially-equipped Jap ship
collects the mother-of-pearl oysters from
Broome luggers and takes them, alive, to
the site. Only oysters under three years
old can be used, because the Japanese
method of,culture doesn’t take well on
older fish. The method is to open the
oyster, make an incision and insert a
foreign body—or up to half-a-dozen
foreign bodies in some cases —together
with some tissue taken from another
oyster. This tissue grafts on to the flesh,
grows around the introduced nucleus and
does the job of secreting the successive
layers of nacre that form the pearl. That
takes up to five years, so no quick divi-
dends are looked for ; but the venture
seems a good bet.
* =S 4: *
“Arthur R.”: Germany has super-
imposed telegraph- and telephone-
channels on its high-tension- and power-
systems. On these channels, without
any interference to either the light or the
communication, dozens of frequency-
channels have been established, making
Germany’s telegraph- and telephone-
systems the finest in the world.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Bob of The Bulletin
“Brigalow” serial was quite right in
asserting that sometimes a swimming
horse will suddenly panic and “turn it
up,” thus virtually committing suicide.
I once saw a healthy young gelding toss
in the towel and drown himself, solely
because his frantic efforts to clamber up
the steep bank of a creek were unsuccess-
ful ; 20yds. downstream he could have
climbed out with ease. But horses are
like men: some panic in a crisis, others
show their mettle. The bravest moke i
ever saw was a draught that a careless
driver was backing in a dray on the brink
of a flooded brick-pit. A cave-in of the
edge dropped the dray, and the dead-
weight dragged the horse with it. That
horse’s desperate, sustained endeavors to
swim out with a dray half-full of mul-
lock dragging him down haunted my
boyhood dreams for weeks. In fairness
I must record that the driver tried to
make amends for his carelessness by un-
hesitatingly diving into the August-cold
water and striving heroically to undo
the harness. When he failed, the man
was as upset as at least one kid.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A Sir ex grub may eat its
way through a tree for three years, and
some native grubs may go for nearly as
long ; so “Q.V.” (B. 22/8/’56) is right in
assuming that many trees are killed in
this way. And that’s where the black-
cockatoos help us out. Often these
screamers are accused of killing the trees
whose bark they’ve ripped off in search
of the grubs ; whereas the fact is the
trees would have died, anyway, and
without the attention of the cockatoos a
horde of winged forms would have
emerged to carry on the work of
destruction.
* * * *
THERE may be a Malay word “taipan”
meaning death (B. 11/7/’56), but
the word as applied to this venomous
reptile is an aboriginal name from the
Wikmungken tribe of Cape York Penin-
sula. This language and kindred dialects
are spoken from near the mouth of the
Archer River, thence southward as far
as the Kendall River, inland to Coen,
and even to the east coast of the Penin-
sula. The cult of the taipan is found at
a swamp south of Cape Keerweer, and
the story is that long ago Father Taipan
made a big dance to which all animals,
birds and reptiles were invited. A young
taipan fell in love with a water-snake,
Tintow, who was married to the blue-
tongue lizard Wella, and they ran away
together. When Willie-wagtail Ticherakar,
Blue-tongue’s uncle, told him of it, Blue-
tongue took his spears and followed
them till he found their camp, and he
and young Taipan threw spears at each
other, then wrestled. The lizard killed
Taipan, cut out his heart and took it
back to the dance and gave it to old
Father Taipan. He immediately stopped
the dance, and refused to be comforted
even when a beautiful young girl was
brought to him as a wife. Father Taipan
was a medicine-man, but he said he
would not make anyone better now his
son was dead. He began to sing a magic
song; the animals, birds and reptiles
became afraid and hid in trees and holes
in the ground. Father Taipan sang more
magic, called the rest of his children
together; they coiled and writhed as
he sang. Finally he stretched his neck
and reared up to the sky; the others
followed his example till they banged
their heads against the sky. That is why
all taipans have flat heads. Father Taipan
said, “Now we are in this new place we
can be happy and show our beautiful
colors so that all down below can look
up and see them stretching from earth
across the sky and back to the earth.
And that is how Taipan made himself
and his family into Rainbow (or Taipan).
—“Taipan Bill” (Thursday Is.).
SKYSCRAPER VIEW
Brittle, this world, limned through panes
of glass;
Horizons forty miles to mountains’ edge !
Whence the wind —the wind that brushes
high
And wide from far-off chimney-stacks
A murk of smudges sideways to the sky.
Thin weaving mists with iridescent thread
Twist among a thousand roof-tops,
Towers with clocks, and canopies of halls,
And, nearer, ’neath the bunchy dark of
trees,
Part to show a glitter that is water.
Up from the city’s cliffs and crags, on
peak
And plateau fly the flags of commerce
and of country.
They flutter from their slim white staffs
amidst
Steel ladders, tanks and wireless-masts.
But now
A smaller pattern mounts to catch the
scene;
A homely sphere of clotheslines, plants
in pots,
Geraniums tubbed in ordered rows, and
fern
Fronds trailing over wooden terraces.
Neat, chintzy casements open free to
wind
Arid sky from the lofty homes of those
who live
As caretakers of the city.
N.S.VV.
MARJORIE MANN.


THE school attended by my friend’s
children in a far-northern town housed
a fine mixture of races, and the color-
bar was unknown, at least among the
kids. Friend’s backyard was frequented
on Saturday mornings by small fry of
every shade, from white through pure
yellow to black. The Chinese green-
grocer, surveying the polychrome group,
asked “Allee same father, Missee?” —
"Miss M.”
**.*,.*
“Swelpme”: Whether or not a rabbit
could jump a wirenetting fence Ift. high
(B. 5/9/’56) doesn’t really matter ; if he
wants to get to the other side he’ll simply
climb the wire. To prove it, put a bunny
in a wire-fronted box with a gap at the
top. He won’t be there in the morning.
All creatures are not so adaptable. Wire-
netting fences are a mortal hazard to
creek-tortoises. Heavy rains invariably
inspire these blokes to go walkabout; if
they encounter a wirenetting fence they
clamber up on their hind-’uns, poke their
long, thin necks through the mesh, and,
with nothing whatsoever holding them,
die rather than pull their heads in.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Touching on pub-wall
balladry (B. 12/9/’56), when 1 was train-
ing in a cadet battalion at Berkhampstead,
England, during World War I, there was
a pub thereabouts that had the following
ballad on its wall:
There's, many a man both young and old
Who’s gone to his sarcophagus
Through pouring water, icy cold,
Adown his warm oesophagus.
* * * * „
“Old Mac”: Surely it must be obvious
to “Jackeroo” (B. 12/9/’56) that the
present-day blacks’-camp dogs which he
describes are very different from those
seen by the first white settlers, before there
were any imported European dogs,
kelpies, Queensland-heelers or other
modern breeds with which the dingo could
mate to produce those “bitzers.” The
dingo was domesticated—if a wild animal,
tamed by nomadic people who do not live
in permanent houses, may be so described
—but whether or not the abos. brought
the original dingo to Australia with them
is a question our scientists can still argue.
The experts of the British Museum usually
have ample authority for statements made
in their descriptive labels, and the uncor-
roborated statement of one “Jackeroo” is
not likely to rock them.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: “Macquarie” (B. 29/8/’56)
is not quite right in claiming that the
recently-demolished home Little Bridge
was the last architectural link with the
“But mines got a bigger REACH than yours”
Harris family. Still standing in good
order at Harris Park, near Parramatta,
is Experiment Cottage, built by Dr. John
Harris on land he bought from James
Ruse. On this land James Ruse grew
the first crop of wheat, but Ruse’s home
was merely a hut.
* * * *
"Phoongyee” (Johannesburg): The
clients of pubs in Westralia 30 years ago
who inverted a beer-pot as an invitation
to hostilities, as explained by “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 27/6/’56), must have been
relations of Lowlanders of Scotland.
•So long ago as 1912 I visited a pub on
the Glasgow side of Jamaica
Bridge crossing from Clyde-
bank. Having finished a
schooner, and talking casually
to a friend, I unwittingly
turned the pot upside-down
on the counter. No argu-
ment ensued, but a brawny
Scots riveter from John
Brown’s yard, on Clydebank,
remarked, “Y’ think y’re the
best mon in the hoose ; I’ll
show y’ who’s the best mon.
Haud that.” And, without
more ado, he swung on my
nose and hurled me out of
the swing-doors.
* * *
“Pip Tok”: Interesting
exhibits at this year’s Wild
Life Show in Perth included
a gwardar, one of Westralia’s
four deadliest snakes —the
others being the tiger, death-
adder and the dugite or
brown-snake. It was the first
live specimen to be shown
in a public exhibition. Grow-
ing to 6ft., the gwardar is inconsistent
in its coloring. It can be olive-
grey with a black cross-band round the
nape; reddish with a jet-black head ; or
banded alternately from head to tail with
jet-black and reddish stripes about
two-fingers wide.
* * # *
“Spooks”: Animals have been in the
news. A Danish schoolmaster walked
a goat 850 miles from Copenhagen to
present it to Princess Grace, only to be
refused hotel-accommodation at Monte
Carlo.. Back he went through France
with the silk-coated goat bearing the
monogram “Princess Grace” in Danish.
A postmaster had only pigs for com-
pany while he kept lonely vigil at Tilpa,
a tiny town in nor-’west N.S.W., which
all others left as the Darling River rose.
In Northam (W.A.) an Army flare landed
on a paddock, and a herd of cows
stampeded. One waded out to an island
in the middle of the river. The river
rose, marooning her, and the moon rose
on a lonely cow. Sunrise found her with
a calf. Army rescuers took a boat over
to the island.
* * * *
“8.V.”: I have never been able to
understand why my fellow-Australians
and -ennes (especially the -ennes) think
so highly of the strawberry and so meanly
of the plum. They care nothing about
paying four or five shillings for a “box”
of strawberries at the rate of threepence
to fivepence a berry, and because the
things are so unsubstantial and the
“delicate flavor” is so fugitive, if it exists
at all, they have to be smothered with ice-
cream or cream. No housewife would
think of serving ripe plums for dessert;
yet no dish could be more delicious, and
plums don’t need expensive additions.
The same preference and prejudice are
extended to jams: strawberry-jam is the
dearest in the shops and plum-jam—
which, incidentally, is an agreeable laxa-
tive—the cheapest. What is at the root of
it all? Ignorance? Snobbery?
* * * *
“Culmina”: Another misconception
about the planets Mars and Venus (B.
“Come back in six hours — tide'll be right out then”
19/9/’56) is that Mars, of all the planets,
is Earth’s “twin.” Venus has more creden-
tials for the honor. Firstly, its diameter is
nearly the same as Earth’s (some 7700
miles compared with our 7926 miles),
while Mars’ diameter is only 4216 miles.
Its size is almost the same as Earth’s,
while Mars.is much smaller. Its mass is
almost the same, too, whereas the red
world’s is but one-ninth that of Earth’s.
Surface-gravity of Venus and Earth are
also not much different, which means that
the weights of objects on the two planets
would be much the same ; but surface-
gravity on Mars is only 0.38 that of
Earth’s, so that a lOst. man here, while he
would find himself a stone lighter on
Venus, would be down to less than 4st. on
Mars.
* * * *
“Sackville”: W. E. Fitz Henry’s men-
tion of “Harry Garlick, the animal
painter” (B. 29/8/’56), recalls the only
animal painter I ever knew. I was walk-
ing along the track to school when round
a turn (en route, I discovered later, to a
waterhole to be restored to normalcy)
came an odd-looking draughthorse. It’s
ribs had been artistically picked-out in
thick whitewash; it wore thick white
spectacles and a drooping white
moustache. A huge heart skewered with
an arrow and carrying two pairs of initials
adorned the prad’s hide in a position
much too far aft to be anatomically
correct, while on the only other available
space a sign announced: “For Sail, 155.”
I was just taking-in the series of white
bangles on the legs, when the man lead-
ing the moke suddenly sprang, spun me
around and planted a boot that seemed to
lift me higher than the Clydesdale’s
withers. I landed on my feet —running,
but the voice of my assailant reached
my wind-scorched ears: “Pass that on
to that big brother of yours, and tell him
I’ll double it when I catch him.” Nearly
40 years ago, but to me animal painters
are just a pain in—well, not the neck.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Just about the time that
“Zake” (B. 12/9/’56) was writing his
par. on black-wattle as a Kelly-gapper
the English factory-manager of that com-
pany, just starting in the U.K., had
flown out to our little town of Wandin
(Vic.). He was, in the cause of research,
following-up three new axes, of their first
batch, air-mailed out previously (at £l2
per blade) to a local champion, whose
able experience from Manjimup to
Whangaroa made him a suitable critic.
By this noted producer of chips they
were passed as 0.K., and as a final test
they were wielded, with the manager as
witness, on a dry black-wattle.
USEFUL TREES
A USTRALIA’S trees include many
which, among them, produce a
wonderful variety of materials, for a wide
number of uses, of considerable value.
The celerytop-pine, one of the family
Taxacece, produces a timber widely used
for ships’ masts and spars. Another of
the family, commonly known as she-pine
or brown-pine, is not readily attacked by
white-ants or marine borers, and makes
durable piles in salt-water.
Oil extracted from eucalypts and sent
to England by Dr. John White, Governor
Phillip’s Surgeon-General, was probably
the first natural product exported from
Australia. Since then over 40 different
chemical substances have been isolated
from the several oils ; they are being used
in a number of widely different industries
as well as in the medical field.
A most versatile inhabitant is the one
commonly known as the grass-tree. There
are 13 species spread round the States, and
among them they produce material for
paper-pulp, gum, industrial alcohol,
varnishes, stains, lacquers and linoleums.
The bush-nut is another tree of many
uses. Known also as the bopple-nut or
popple-nut, its correct name is
Macadamia ternifolia. It supplies an
excellent table nut, which is also ideal for
confectionery. The green husk has first-
rate tanning properties, and from the
kernel has been extracted an oil equal to
the finest olive. From the hard shell
buttons and other ornaments can be
made, and a fine perfume has been
extracted from the flowers.
In north-west W.A. the cadjeput-,
baobab- and quinine-tree were favorites
with the natives. Possibly the most used
was the cadjeput. In the wet season they
made shelters from the bark by bending
it into half-circles, with the ends pressed
into the ground. Camp-equipment was
kept in strips of cadjeput-bark tied with
twine made from baobab string and
human hair. When a native died the
body was wrapped in cadjeput-bark and
placed in the fork of a tree ; also, from
cadjeput-bark they made bush buckets,
for which baobab string and whitegum
cement were also used.
From the quinine-tree the kernel was
powdered and mixed with wild honey
as an antidote for dengue fever.
Red cedar is, of course, now among
the most famous of all our trees. It is one
of the world’s best weather-resisters, as
well as having a beautiful grain, especially
when quarter-sawn and of fiddleback.
This was another of the trees revered by
the aborigines. They disliked seeing them
felled, and warned the destroyers that
they would be punished eventually.
Of wattles we’re ‘reckoned to have
somewhere over 400 different varieties.
Some of the more popular native names
for them were currawang, gidgee, jarrah,
myall and boree.
Perhaps not generally known, the
blackwood, so popular with furniture-
makers, is one of the wattle tribe. Still
another member of this huge family is
the mulga, source nowadays of
ornaments, and in droughts, of course, a
great fodder stand-by for stockowners.
It is over 100 years since the first
sandalwood was shipped from Bunbury
(W.A.). In the first 50 years 20,000 tons
of it were shipped away ; then the W.A.
Government decided it was an important
product and put a minimum size on the
trees to be cut. The wood is burned for
incense in Asia, and when what’s now
known as the Mallee, in Victoria, was
being cleared the perfume from the
burning sandalwoods there was so strong
it was said it would have been sufficient
to supply all China.
Flame-trees, as well as producing their
masses of vivid scarlet flowers, have,
when fully grown, bark two or more
inches thick, furnishing a lacelike fibre
from which rope and matting are made.
Of the saltbush trees, the one called
Old-man Saltbush is the tallest and is the
most fattening as a stock-fodder, and
stock run on it are said to be free from
fluke.
C.P.G.


0
General Credits ltd.
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates of annual interest rising
from 3£% for three months to
7% for five years and over.
Cumulative stock carrying 6|%
compounded on yearly rests
with currencies of five to
fifteen years. Prospectus
available at all branches of
The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited,
Members of Stock
Exchanges and Offices
of the Company.
UNDERWRITERS:
J. B. WERE
& SON
Bankers for the Issue:
Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
Directors : Sir John Newman-
Morris, C.M.G. (Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing), J. M.
Ford, E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
General Credits Limited is sponsored by Automobile
Fire and General Insurance Company of Australia Ltd.
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
495!
Business, Robbery, Etc.
"WORKS" PAID FOR OUT OF REVENUE
nrHE practice adopted by the
-*■ Commonwealth Govern-
ment in most years since the war
of paying for public works out
of revenue has been the subject
of some controversy. It began
under Chifley and has been con-
tinued under Menzies. Aspects
of the practice have recently
been criticised by Sir Earle Page,
his objection being mainly in
respect of the increased taxation
which has had to be levied in
order to pay for public works.
So far as the national assets
being so paid for are constructed
at a reasonable cost, are neces-
sary to national development,
and are carried out in their
correct priority, The Bulletin is
mostly in favor of paying for
public works out of revenue in
present circumstances. It says
“mostly,” because at the present
time all public-works expendi-
ture seems to involve more than
a reasonable proportion of
waste. One only needs to have a
telephone connected to notice
the appalling waste of man-
hours (and taxpayer’s money)
involved. In some State
Administrations the waste (and
cost) is much higher.
But where there is such waste,
it is better that it should sting
the taxpayer in the region of
the hip-pocket and thereby
provoke a political reaction from
him than to add to the effects
of indefinite but, eventually,
more disastrous inflation.
Such has been the shortage of
loan-money in Australia over the
past five years, partly the result
of inadequate production and
savings, that the only alternative
to paying for public works out of
revenue (other than curtailing
them) would have been to pay
for them out of bank-credit. To
have done so would have created
gross inflation.
Although Australia is an ex-
panding country, there has not
been enough capital for export
from the United Kingdom for
it to have been rushing into Aus-
tralia at the pace we require it.
There might have been more
offering if taxation in this
country had been lower, but that
is extremely doubtful.
So, though no one likes paying
more taxation than is necessary,
and while everyone will agree
that public works do cost us
more than should be necessary,
if such outlay on works is
politically inevitable, we should
console ourselves with the fact
that during the war far too much
was paid for out of loans and
bank-credit that should have
been paid for out of taxation.
During 1955-56 the Common-
wealth Government provided
£6l million for State Govern-
\ ment works out of surplus
k Federal revenue (taxation). There
was appropriated also £6 million
towards the cost of the Common-
wealth munitions-filliog factory
at St. Mary’s (N.S.W.), and £lO
million for research and develop-
ment in respect of (mostly) the
Woomera and Salisbury (S.A.)
guided-weapons projects. During
the current term £l3 million is
set aside for the St. Mary’s pro-
ject ; other expenditure out of
revenue for defence projects of
a capital nature during 1956-57
is not disclosed.
But it is estimated that this
year a Budget surplus of £lOB
million will be available to help
pay for State works ; in addi-
tion, the following Common-
wealth public works are set-down
for financing out of taxation
revenue:
Estimated Expenditure 1956-’57, compared with Actual
Expenditure 1955-’56 '
Actual Estimated + Increase.
Expenditure Expenditure r— Decrease.
1955-’56. 1956-’57.
Departmental—
££ , £
National University .. .. 800,000 531,000 \ 269,000
External Affairs 194,301 187,000 7,301
Treasury .■ 202,547 241,000 + 38,453
Attorney-General’s 48,334 369,000 + 320,666
Interior 1,456,259 2,090,000 + 633,741
Works 753,111 974,000 + 220,889
Aust. Aluminium Commission' 204,990 204,990
Civil Aviation —
Works, sites and buildings 2,779,589 2,807,000 + 27,411
Technical equipment, etc. .. 1,101,459 1,350,000 + 248,541
Airways share-capital .. .. 1,200,000 1,500,000 + 300,000
Health .. .. 638,974 510,000 128,974
Repatriation 242,149 220,000 22,149
Social Services 118,210 231,000 + 112,790
Construction of merchant ships 3,201,607 1,350,000 1,851,607
Purchase of ships overseas .. 387,838 387,838
Standardisation of railway
gauges 403,791 400,000 3,791
War-service Homes 30,000,000 30,000,000
Immigration 318,519 288,000 30,519
Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric
Authority .. 15,146,000 18,000,000 + 2,854,000
Atomic Energy Commission .. 1,477,869 2,436,000 + 958,131
Other items 714,664 837,000 + 122,336
Total departmental .. .. 61,390,211 64,321,000 + 2,930,789
Business undertakings—
Railways 2,674,168 3,425,000 + 750,832
Post Office 28,969,815 30,727,000 + 1,757,185
Broadcasting and Television .. 816,887 2,474,000 + 1,657,113
Total business undertakings 32,460,870 36,626,000 + 4,165,130
Territories—
Northern Territory 2,861,034 3,366,000 + 504,966
Australian Capital Territory.. 5,181,370 5,330,000 + 148,630
Papua and New Guinea .. .. 4.753 33,000 + 28,247
Cocos (Keeling) Islands .. 1,692 62,000 + 60,308
Total Territories .. .. 8,048,849 8,791,000 + 742,151
Total capital works and
services (from Consoli-
dated Revenue) .. ..101,899,930 109,738,000 + 7,838,070
Total increase is put at £7.8
million. Commenting on items
showing major variations, the
Treasurer, in a statement
attached to his printed Budget
speech, said:
National University. —The reduction
of £269,000 is due to a smaller pro-
vision for expenditure try the National
University on building in 1956-57.
Attorney - General’s. The
increase of £321,000 is due almost
entirely to expenditure on the con-
struction of the new arbitration-court
building in Melbourne.
Interior. —An increase in the pro-
vision for buildings for Common-
wealth offices in Melbourne and
Canberra is mainly responsible for the
rise of £634,000.
Australian Aluminium Production
Commission. —With the payment of
£205,000 to the commission in 1955-
56, the Commonwealth completed its
undertaking to contribute £9,000,000
to the commission’s total capital ot
£10,500,000. No provision is necessary
in 1956-57.
Civil Aviation. —The expected rise
of £249,000 in expenditure on tech-
nical equipment, etc., is largely due
to delays in delivery of certain items
which were to have been delivered and
paid for in 1955-56 but which will now
be paid for in 1956-57. An amount of
£1,500,000 is being provided in 1956-
57 for a further contribution to the
capital of Qantas Empire Airways to
enable construction to proceed on
building projects.
Social Services. —Increased expendi-
ture on the Mount Wilga Rehabilita-
tion Centre is mainly responsible for
the £113,000 rise in expenditure.
Construction of Merchant Ships. —
Since the inception of the Australian
Shipbuilding Board, the ship-construc-
tion vote has provided funds to cover
the gross cost of all merchant ships
constructed in Australian shipyards.
From 1948-49 onwards the expendi-
ture has been reduced by credits aris-
ing from ships sold to or ordered on
behalf of owners other than the Com-
monwealth under the shipbuilding
subsidy scheme, the net charge to the
vote therefore representing the full
cost of ships ordered on Common-
wealth account (for operation by the
Australian Shipping Board) plus the
unrecovered cost (or subsidy) on ships
for other owners. Thus in 1955-56
net expenditure of £3,202,000 was
arrived at after crediting recoveries of
£777,000 against gross expenditure of
£3,979,000.
This year the provision for gross
expenditure (£4,650,000) is on a
similar basis, but recoveries credited
against this amount are affected by
two significant changes. Ships cur-
rently on order for the Commonwealth
are to be purchased by the new Aus-
tralian Coastal Shipping Commission,
which will make progress payments in
the same manner as other purchasers,
and provision has been made for
£1,500,000 to be received from the
commission during 1956-57. The
second change is that subsidy on all
ships (including those for the com-
mission) is now appropriated separ-
ately under Miscellaneous Services, the
provision for 1956-57 being £1,400,000.
For 1956-57 the net amount provided
for expenditure is therefore £1,350,000.
This comprises £400,000 carried over
from 1955-56, plus the net cost
between July 1, 1956, and the date
of establishment of the Australian
Coastal Shipping Commission of those
ships for which the commission will
accept financial responsibility from
its inception.
Purchase of Ships Overseas. —The
last of four merchant ships being
constructed in the United Kingdom
for the Commonwealth was delivered
in 1955-56. No provision is necessary
in 1956-57. '
Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric
Authority. —The estimated increase in
the Authority’s expenditure this year
is due mainly to increased contractual
commitments in respect of the projects
comprising the Upper Tumut section
of the Snowy Mountains Scheme. The
production of electricity from this
section, the construction of which
is well advanced, is expected to com-
mence by the end of 1958.
Atomic Energy Commission. —
Expenditure in 1956-57 is estimated
at £2,436,000 compared with actual
expenditure of £1,478,000 in 1955-56.
The increase in expenditure relates
wholly to the research-reactor project
at Lucas Heights [near Sydney] but
expenditure includes also the cost of
additions to capital equipment at Rum
Jungle and the cost of plant for use
in the search for uranium.
Railways. —The increase of £751,000
arises from further modernisation and
the purchase of additional rolling-
stock to cater for increased traffic.
This includes another five mainline
diesel-electric locomotives, costing
£620,000.
Post Office. Expenditure of
£28,970,000 in 1955-56 included
£200,000 to expand the services pro-
vided by the Overseas Telecommunica-
tions Commission. No comparable
payment to the commission is included
in the 1956-57 estimate of £30,727,000.
Expenditure on equipment is expected
to rise by £1,604,000 mainly to enable
the provision of trunk-line channels to
be increased and to allow for some
increase in prices of materials. A rise
of £353,000 is expected in expenditure
on sites and buildings.
Broadcasting and Television. —The
increase in expenditure under this head
is attributable almost wholly to the
establishment of national television in
Australia, scheduled to commence in
November, 1956. The amount pro-
vided for television transmitting and
studio equipment is £1,300,000 com-
pared with expenditure in 1955-56 of
£139,000. Expenditure on buildings
for television is expected to be
£327.000 more than in 1955-56. The
estimated increase of £169,000 in
expenditure on sound-broadcasting is
due mamly to the erection of modern
studios in Sydney.
Forestry Pulp and Paper
TJUYING into “forests” was
a fairly popular pastime
back in the 1920’5. Rapidly
diminishing supplies of native
timbers had to be replaced, the
cellulose boom wa§ on (Court-
aulds’ fabulous profits mes-
merised speculators), and there
was extensive planting of quick-
growing softwoods. Extended by
“smooth” salesman and glossy
prospectus, the customary carrot,
“Undreamed -of Wea 11 h,”
attracted thousands of “lot-
holders” and bond-holders, very
happy to start dreaming about
this previously neglected fortune.
Dreaming was as close as most
of them have got as yet.
For the sum of about £3O the
purchaser acquired a beneficial
interest in, or even an actual
certificate of title to, an acre of
land which the vendor company
agreed to clear and plant, usually
with Pin us insignis, at its own
expense. The plantation would
then be tended, either for a
fixed period, after which it was
up to the acre-holder to take
over, or until the timber was
ready for cutting, when the
company would undertake to
cut, mill, and market for about
20 p.c. of the net proceeds.
Having sold their “acre-lots” at
a substantial profit, many com-
panies showed little further
interest in the acre-holders, who
incidentally took all the risk and
had no say in management.
Other companies took a more
responsible attitude. Amongst
the numerous afforestation
concerns to get under way in
1926 was the Forestry Co. of
Australia, whose timber interests
were taken over in 1927 by the
Forestry Pulp and Paper
Co. Ltd.
The directors of this latter
company (now a proprietary co.)
soon realised that the original
intention of crediting each acre-
holder with the profit derived
from his particular acre was im-
practical. Various compromise
schemes were tried, but, eventu-
ally acre-holders handed-in their
certificates in exchange for stock
entitling them to participate in
the pooled profits of the whole
plantation.
Legislation enabling this
arrangement was passed in
1949, after seven years of discus-
sion and delay had prevented
an earlier distribution of profits.
For a time Forestry Pulp and
Paper had a direct interest in
the milling of its timber, but as
large sections of the plantations
became ready for cutting, out-
side interests found the capital
necessary to establish larger and
more numerous mills. In 1952
Softwood Holdings, Ltd.,
acquired a majority of shares
in Forestry Paper and Pulp, the
holding totalling 94,412 ords. of
10s. each and £2544 of stock at
June 30, 1955.
(Softwood Holdings, Ltd., has
a paid capital of £384,206 in 10s.
shares, and paid 12| p.c. for
1955-56. The shares have been
selling at 13s. 9d. in Adelaide.
The former shareholders in
Forestry Pulp and Paper are now
mostly interested through a
shareholding in Softwood Hold-
ings, Ltd.).
Stockholders in Forestry Pulp
and Paper will receive their fifth
dividend-cheque this year, bring-
ing the return on capital invested
30 years ago to 100 p.c.
Dividends can be expected for
at least another 15 years,
according to the directors, and
with an agreement, already in
operation, for the sale of land
as it is cleared, the return to the
original investor is estimated at
capital, plus 450 p.c. over 45
years.
One could think of quicker
ways of making money, but th?
stockholders are, at last, receiving
a reasonable return from their
investment, which is more than
can be said for many of those
who bought “acres” in the rash
of other similar ventures that
broke out in the 1920’5.


THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Ordinance 1912-1954 of the Territory of Papua.)
Issue of 3,000,000 ordinary shares of 5
each at par with negotiable options for
3,000,000 further ordinary shares
'V?
1
m
ms3<
I
HOW TO APPLY FOR SHARES
APPLICATION FORMS and copies of the Prospectus
may be obtained from:
(a) The Company’s Registered Offices at 375 George
Street, Sydney, or c/- Mr. Norman White, Barrister
and Solicitor, Port Moresby, Papua.
(b) Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
(c) Brokers to the Issue:
Ernest L. Davis & Co., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
Eric R. Jeffery, 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Vic. (Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.)
J. H. Clack & Co., 14 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
(Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange.)
Applications for shares must be made on the form which
is part of the Prospectus.
CLOSING DATE
The Directors reserve the right to close the Issue
at any time and without notice. Directors have
the right to accept applications for up to a
further 1,000,000 shares ranking equally with the
original 3,000,000 new shares and carrying the
same option benefits.
This advertisement (in which ' the statutory requirements as to
Prospectuses have not been fully complied with) is published for
information only. The Prospectus (of which this is an abridgment)
is dated 26th July, 1956
of 5'- each at par
OPTIONS
To each share attaches an option to take up one ordinary
share of 5/- at par at any time within five years from the
date of the Prospectus. Such options are separable from
the shares of the Issue and will be traded in separately.
The options may be required to be taken up by the
Company on one month’s notice within the five-year
period on an announcement by the Minister of State
for Territories of the Commonwealth of Australia, or
the Administrator of the Territories of Papua and New
Guinea, of the discovery of oil in commercial quantities
in the Company’s permit area. These options will
enable subscribers to this Issue to benefit materially from
a successful search for oil in Papua.
ACTIVITIES OF COMPANY AND OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited holds a
permit to prospect for petroleum in an area of about 8,600
square miles in the Gulf and Central Districts of Papua near
Port Moresby. The funds are required to carry out and
accelerate geological and geophysical surveys and to implement
a drilling programme.
NEWLY ACQUIRED DRILLING PLANT AND
APPLICATIONS FROM OTHER COMPANIES
ASSOCIATED AUSTRALIAN OILFIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made prior to the date of the Pros-
pectus, Associated Australian' Oilfields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National T 32
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 500,000 shares of the Issue
for cash.
ASSOCIATED FRENEY OIL FIELDS N.L.
Under an arrangement made subsequent to the date of the
Prospectus, Associated Freney Oil Fields N.L. is transferring
(for shares outside the scope of this Issue) its National 55
drilling plant to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company
Limited, and has also applied for 1,000,000 shares of the Issue
for cash.
, AUTHORISED CAPITAL
20,000,000 shares of 5/- each £5,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
879,321 shares of 5/- each on which
£219.646 has been paid £219,830
CAPITAL OFFERED FOR ISSUE
3,000,000 shares of 5/- each £750,000
DIRECTORS
B. W. Graham, M.P., 74 Kameruka Road, Northbridge,
N.S.W., Company Director (Chairman).
L. F. Nix, 13 Bligh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Solicitor.
A. E. Prince, 34 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., Company
Director.
F. A. Mackell, B.Ec., 5 Hampden Avenue, Darling Point,
Sydney, Company Manager.
G. H. R. Jones, LL.B., 12 Barana Parade, Roseville Chase,
N.S.W., Solicitor.
R. F. Hockey, A.S.A.S.M., M.A.1.M.E., M.AUS.I.M.M., 422
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic., Mining Engineer.
PAYMENT FOR SHARES
Payment is to be made:
(a) 1/- per share with application, of which 3d. per share
is application money and 9d. per share represents a pre-
paid call;
(b) by calls of 1/- per share, the first of which is payable
not less than three months from the date of allotment
and the remaining 3/- in calls of not more than 1/- per
share, payable at intervals of not less than two months.
Shareholders have the right to pay up in full to par value
(5/- per share) at any time and in advance of calls.
TAXATION
Section 78 (1) (b) of the Income Tax and Social Services Con-
tribution Assessment Act 1936, as amended, specifies that one-third
of the amount of calls paid on shares of oil prospecting companies
in Papua may be claimed as an allowable deduction in Australian
taxation returns. Calls paid in respect of the shares of this Issue
qualify for this concession.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
(a) The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised by the issue of shares under the Prospectus is
£50,000. (This amount has already been subscribed.)
This amount is required to be provided in respect of the
following matters:
(i) Purchase price of any property purchased
or to be purchased Nil
(ii) Expenses of the Issue (including brokerage
amounting to £2,083 payable to the Brokers
of this Issue) £7,000
(iii) Repayment of moneys borrowed in respect of
foregoing matters Nil
‘(iv) Working Capital £43,000
£50,000
(b) Any sums obtained on the issue of shares in excess of £50,000
will be used as working capital.
(c) Amount to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid
otherwise than out of the proceeds of the Issue is nil.
(d) No amount is payable for preliminary expenses.
In pursuance of Clause 99 (2) of the Petroleum (Prospecting and
Mining) Ordinance 1951/1955 of the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea, it is declared that nothing in this advertisement is to be
taken as claiming or suggesting that the Minister or the
Administrator, or \a Government Department of the Common-
wealth or of the Territory or a person or a body acting on behalf
of such person or department, has formed or expressed an opinion
that any land included in a permit, licence or lease of the Company
is from its geological formation or otherwise land in jvhich
petroleum is likely to be obtainable.
MAROILAND FINANCE
National Income
MAIN figures in the official
estimates of New Zealand’s
national income for the year to
March 31,1956, have been issued
by the Department of Statistics.
National income at factor cost
increased by £4B million, or 6
per cent., to £846 million. Gross
national product, the value of all
goods and services at current
prices, increased by £59 million,
or 6.4 per cent., to £923 million.
Private income, including trans-
fer-incomes, increased by £5O
million, or 5.9 per cent., to £903
million.
The rise of 6.4 per cent, in
gross national product compares
with rises of 10.3 per cent, the
previous year and 11 per cent,
the year before. The figures are
a compound of price-increases
and increases in volume-of-
production; it is assumed that
steadier prices during the year
were the main factor contribut-
ing to the lower percentage
increase.
Expenditure on personal con-
sumption increased by £2B
million, or le;ss than 5 per cent.,
to £635 million. As a share of
gross national product, personal-
consumption expenditure
declined from 66 to 65 per cent.
The cost of Government-
provided goods and services
increased by £lO million, or 8.8
per cent., to £124 million, but
only fractionally in relation to
gross national product.
Private capital formation
increased from £l3O million to
£146 million, that is, from 14
per cent, to 15 per cent, of gross
national product. Government
capital formation increased from
£B2 million to £92 million, both
figures representing about 9 per
cent, of gross national product.
A deficit of £39 million in
balance-of-payments on current
account was reduced to £34
million. Total domestic expendi-
ture, current and capital,
exceeded gross domestic product
by 3.5 per cent., against 4.2 per
cent, the previous year.
Private savings, including
undistributed profits of com-
panies, increased from 9 per cent,
to 10 per cent, of private income.
Personal consumer-expenditure
fell from 71 per cent, to 70 per
cent, of private income.
In spite of these changes, how-
ever, savings were still below and
personal expenditure was still
above the 12-year averages of
13 per cent, for savings and 68
per cent, for expenditure. Taxa-
tion, at 19 per cent, of private
income, corresponded to the
average.
The cost of social-security
benefits, monetary and non-
monetary, increased by £6
million to £BO million. The cost
of these benefits in relation to
national income has been declin-
ing since 1946-47 when it was at
a peak of 11.1 per cent. Last
year it took 9.4 per cent.
Salary and wage payments
increased by £3B million, or 9
per cent., to £469 million. As
a proportion of total private
income they amounted to 51.9
per cent., higher than in any one
year except 1938-39.
Other personal incomes in-
creased by £4 million, or less
than 2 per cent., to £236 million.
This is only 26.2 per cent, of
total private income, the lowest
proportion of all post-war years.
The trend is mainly due to a
fall in net farming incomes, the
first fall since the end of the
war if the decline following the
1951 wool-boom is disregarded.
Company income before divi-
dend distribution increased by £2
million, or 2 per cent., to £99
million. It accounted for 11 per
cent, of total private income,
close to the 18-year average.
Taxation for Government pur-
poses, expressed as a percentage
of private income, has been as
follows for selected years: 1938-
39 (year before war), 15.8 ; 1944-
45 (year of heaviest tax during
war), 24.2 ; 1946-47 (first year of
peace), 15.4; 1954-55, 18.4;
1955-56, 17.9.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
REFLECTING central-bank policy, the
• latest accounts of the 90-year-old
C.B.A. reveal a small drop in advances,
although earnings have been maintained.
Designed to reduce inflationary
pressures, credit-restrictions kept total
trading-bank advances down to £972.3
million at the end of the financial year,
a fall of £18.4 million in 12 months (the
unsatisfied demands of an expanding
economy forcing up note and debenture
interest-rates, in some cases, to unhealthy
levels). It is not surprising, therefore, to
find the trading-banks displaying an
interest in hire-purchase activities, the
C.B.A. entering this comparatively
unrestricted field by an agreement that
will, in the current year, give it a 45 p.c,
holding in General Credits, Ltd., a Vic-
torian h.-p, co. at present operating
branches in Brisbane and Perth.
For the second time in two years
C.B.A. shareholders were offered
2,105,868 10s. ords. at a ss. premium
(7s. 6d. in 1954), the issue bringing paid
capital to £6,223,218, and adding £510,000
to reserves. There are 211,735 £lO 4 p.c.
pref. shares.
As anyone seeking an overdraft knows
only too well, bank-credit is not as readily
available as it was several years ago, but,
despite this curtailment of lending, there
was an improvement of £382,338 in the
bank’s gross earnings for the year. Higher
interest-rates introduced towards the end
of the term were partly offset by a reduc-
tion of the interest received on deposits
with the central bank, so it would appear
that investment income was responsible
for the higher gross earnings. Increased
salaries, expenses and co.-tax made-off
with most of this gain, leaving net profit
only £1321 higher at £555,708 after pro-
viding £765,226 (up £7385) for income,
land and other taxes, and an unstated
amount for contingencies:
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
1951.. 336,012 10 p.c. = 200,000 35,000 2,407,262
1952.. 340,563 10 „ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 ~ ~200,000 125,000 2,429,782
Share premiums, £750,000 .. .. 3,179,782
1954.. 500,221 10 p.c. = 268,150 185,000 3,192,159
1955.. 554,387 10 „ ~305,293 50,000 3,306,559
Share premiums, £510,000 .. .. 3,816,559
1956.. 555,708 10 p.e. = 487,269 50,000 3,834,998
*ln addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Most of the ord. capital was issued at a
premium, reducing the effective return to
shareholders from the unchanged 10 p.c.
div. After meeting the pref. div., earn-
ings represented 11.7 p.c. on the higher
average capital, following 15.4, 15.4,
16.8, 12.8 and 12.5 p.c. over the previous
five years, while on total shareholders’
funds the profit was a modest 5.4 p.c. The
amount written-off bank premises was
unchanged at £50,000.
Deposits, etc., increased slightly (up
£427,087) over the term, in spite of the
adverse balance of payments, but liquid
assets grew by £4.8 million, and, with the
special account (down £2.5 million),
amounted to 45.3 p.c. of liabilities to the
public at balance-date. Comparative
balance-sheets show the degree to which
trade difficulties and Government policy
have arrested the growth of advances
(down £1.2 million) and deposits, avail-
able funds going into liquid and fixed
assets:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Preference .. 2,117,350 2,117,350 2,117,350
Ordinary .. 3,052,934 3,052,934 4,105,868
Reserves . . 3,192,159 3,306,559 3,834,998
Notes . . . . 5,102 5,102 5,102
Deposits, etc.* 185,435,597 190,414,198 190,841,285
Other banks .. 436,290 3,023 33,074
Final divs. . . 189,467 194,994 247,640
194,428,899 199,094,160 201,185,317
Liquid assets . . 56,327,197 56,471,826 60,294,423
Special deposits
central bank 35,648,000 28,748,000 26,248,000
Advances .. 99,052,262 110,648,088 109,392,210
Bank premises 3,401,440 4,226,246 5,250,684
194,428,899 199,094,160 201,185,317
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
Five new branches were opened during
the year, and the same number of receiv-
ing-offices raised to branch status, new
buildings and extensions adding £1 million
to the book-value of bank premises. The
building programme will be reduced
during the current term so as not to add
to the heavy demand for labor and
materials.
At 17s. 6d. the f.-p. 10s. ords. return
5.7 p.c. from the 10 p.c. div., while the
£lO prefs., at £6 16s. yield 5.9 p.c. from
the 4 p.c. distribution as well as giving
holders the right to participate in new
issues. Net tangible cover is £47 10s. for
the prefs. and 19s. 4d. for the ords.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
JCOLLOWING a prediction by the
chairman of the co. (in August, 1955)
that trading results for the 1955-56 term
would be as favorable as those for the
previous year, Australian Cash Orders
disclosed a final profit for the term
ended March 31 of £75,471, a decrease
on slightly bigger capital of £11,646.
Commenting at the annual meeting on
the smaller profit, the chairman told
shareholders:
Business has shown a tendency of late to
run into longer terms, and collections have
not been so buoyant. This, together with
ever-increasing costs, has detracted from
our rate of earning and necessitated greater
provision for bad debts.
As the subsidiary cos. balanced nine
months earlier, on June 30, any similar
weakness in net earnings over the last
few months will not be apparent until
accounts are presented next year.
For the year ended June 30, 1955, con-
solidated net profit of the subsidiary and
sub-subsidiary concerns, after dividends
to outside shareholders, was £43,294, an
increase of £3622.
Against the parent’s gross income,
which rose £11,636 to £315,081, includ-
ing £261,790 (up £1143) discounts, com-
missions, interest, etc., and £43,187 (up
£10,493) dividends from subsidiary con-
cerns (including interim divs. out of
profits for the current year) all-round
increases were recorded in wages and
other management expenses, etc. (up
£15,592 to £173,952), bad debts and
depreciation provision, etc. (up £4162 to
£18,861), and interest (up £15,929 to
£26,197) lightened to some extent by a
smaller tax-provision (down £12,400 to
£20,600):
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. f Dividends , serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Share-issue exps. written off, £132 .. 210,553
1952.. 73,441 17i p.e. = 60,055 13,386 223,939
1953.. 68,036 „ „ 64,754 3,282 227,221
Share premiums, £2OlO .. . . 229,231
1954.. 94,361 17J p.c. = 65,242 29,119 268,350
Share premiums, £42,436 .. .. 300,786
Share-issue exps. written off, £63 .. 300,723
1955.. 87,117 17 J p.c. = 70,897 16,720 317,443
Share premiums, £4063 .. .. 321,500
1956.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,617 12,854 334,360
* Subject to goodwill, £127,513, March 31, 1956.
Omitting the 2\ p.c. bonus which has
been a feature in recent years, a 15 p.c.
div. was paid. As well as reflecting the
higher cost of borrowing, the heavier
interest-charge is also due to the issue
to outside shareholders in several of the
subsidiary cos. of £119,647 of 7 p.c.
unsecured registered notes in exchange for
an equal amount of 5 p.c. and 5-y p.c.
pref. capital. Another £92,058 of notes
was subscribed for in cash by share-
holders and the public. The entire issue
of 211,705 notes is due to mature in
October, 1965, but the co. has the right
to redeem the notes after eight years.
Provided other factors remain equal, the
exchange of shares for notes, while
’increasing the operating expenses of the
parent co., will also have the effect of
making a greater amount of profit avail-
able to it as dividends.
Partly because of the note-issue
balance-sheet figures disclose a bigger
surplus of more-or-less liquid assets over
liabilities:
1954. 1955. 1956
Paid capital .. £379,299 £416,439 £421,963
Reserves .. ~ 258,350 317,444 334,360
Mortgages .. .. 95,000 92,500 90,000,
7 p.e. notes .. 211,705
Overdraft . . .. 119,521 105,527 135,669
Creditors, etc. . . 193,418 338,401 184,880
Provisions* .. 103,337 142,387 101,974
Final div. .. 37,321 40,665 31,583
£1,186,246 £1,453,363 £1,512,135
Freeholds, etc. ~ 164,412 173,293 176,110
Shares subsids. . . 122,736 212,348 334,226
Debtors, etc. .. 782,226 939,287 873,187
Cash .. .. 758 922 1,099
Goodwill .. .. 116,114 127,513 127,513
£1,186,246 £1,453,363 £1,512,135
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
An indication of the more difficult trading
conditions which have developed recently,
debtors at the end of the term were
£66,100 lower at £873,187. Provisions
for bad debts, depreciation, taxation,
long-service leave, etc., amounted to
£101,974. During the year the co.
acquired a property adjoining the show-
rooms erected in Wollongong in 1954.
Priced at 435. a year ago the f.-p.
£1 “B” ords. at present bring 295. on
’Change to return 10.4 p.c. on the 15 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible asset cover is
30s. Bd. for each fully paid-up share.
Berlei, Ltd.
THE need for greater productivity as
a counter to inflation has long been
stressed by The Bulletin, and it is
interesting to note the beneficial effects
of improved productivity on the com-
munity consumer, employee and
employer —reflected by the accounts of
Berlei, Ltd., for the year ended June 30
last. Increased labor-efficiency lifted
production and reduced manufacturing
costs, while, in a period of rising prices,
consumers paid no more for Berlei pro-
ducts, although the co. increased its
earnings by almost 39 p.c. and its pro-
duction employees pushed their bonus
earnings to 21 p.c. of base-rate wages.
The business was originally established
in 1912, the present co. taking over after
a reorganisation in 1920. There are
three Australian and one English sub-
sidiary cos. as well as a New Zealand
associate, Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd. A two-for-
five bonus issue in December, 1953,
added £188,346 to paid capital, which
now totals £715,460. A par issue to the
staff-fund brought-in £6250 during the
term. There are 50,000 £lB p.c. prefs.
To quote the attractively presented
report, Berlei is “dedicated to the health,
comfort and figure-beauty of Australian
women”; it pursues this laudable aim by
the manufacture of foundation-garments.
Sales of “Sarong” products (introduced
in 1955) contributed most of the £467,557
added to the group turnover for the year.
During a year in which Australian
production of foundation - garments
increased the co.’s share of the market
was well maintained. The following
table shows Australian production-
figures for the past four years:
Corsets, Corselets, Brassieres,
’OOO ’OOO ’OOO
Dozen. Dozen. Dozen.
1952-53 .. .. 117.6 4.6 829.7
1953-54 .. .. 148.4 7.0 416.9
1954-55 .. .. 133.6 6.8 398.9
1955-56 .. .. 149.4 6.8 413.7
The parent’s turnover reached £2,304,366
(up £234,259), while the more efficient
production lifted the ratio of before-tax
earnings to sales from 7.2 p.c. to 10.1 p.c.
The co. received £57,901 (up £7473) in
divs. from subsidiaries, net profit jump-
ing by £46,021 to £164,062 after more
than doubling the provision for tax (up
£38,000 to £70,000) and allowing £18,567
(up £2112) for depreciation:
, -Dividends v
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 60,657 4000 10 p.c. = 37,544 19,113 429,081
To tax reserve, £lBl3 .. .. .. 427,268
To staff fund, £9913 417,355
1953.. 82,627 4000 10 p.c. = 47,086 31,541 448,896
Assets revaluation, £11,316 .. ..460,212
Reserves capitalised, £188,346 .. ..271,866
From tax reserve, £7956 net . . .. 279,822
To staff fund, £8948.. 70 743 350 565
1954..140,194 4000 10 p.c. = 56,508 ) 1 1 rfdU ’ jo °
To staff fund, etc., £9541 .. ) „ a - 7a „ 8Q ,
1955..118,041 4000 10 p.e. = 65,922 j ' 8 dBy,l4a
To staff fund, £9243 379,900
Tax underprovided, £509 .. .. 379,391
Written-off Sarong investment, £5llB .. 374,273
1956..164,062 4000 10 p.c. = 66,546 93,516 467,789
After covering the pref. div., earnings
represented 24 p.c. of ord. capital, follow-
ing 16.8, 20.6, 16.7 and 15.1 p.c. in the
four preceding years. Ord. div. was
unchanged at 10 p.c., and over 57 p.c.
of the earnings went to reserves. The
subsidiary Sarong Foundations Pty.
holds the Australian franchise for the
world-patented “Sarong” garments, and
as the value of this investment is related
to the life of the patents, it is intended
to write-off the cost of the shares in this
subsidiary during the currency of the
patent.
Outside liabilities were reduced during
the term, the balance-sheet revealing a
reduction of £102,917 in the overdraft
while creditors (partly due to a reduction
in the subsidiary debt) fell by £29,397:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £709,210 £709.210 £715,460
Reserves .. .. 350,565 389,143 467,789
Notes .. . . 217,875 250,000 250,000
Mortgage .. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . .. 285,371 238,106 135.189
Creditors, etc. . . 139,004 171,884 142,487
Tax provision .. 54,913 31,990 70,000
Final div. .. 34,960 34,961 35,273
£1,891,898 £1,925,294 £1,916,198
Freeholds .. 134.339 198,275 203,196
Plant . . .. 112,482 127,453 143,727
Investments* . . 167,815 239,187 274,094
Stocks .. .. 1,204,891 1,106,979 954,846
Book debts .. 269,545 246,688 336,616
Cash, etc. .. 2,826 6,812 4,119
£1,891,898 £1,925,294 £1,916,198
* Shares in subsidiary and associated cos.
The mortgage, held by the A.M.P.,
has been extended for a further ten years,
and an additional £50,000 will be pro-
vided. Half of this loan will be repaid
in annual instalments. Due for redemp-
tion in 1959, the sjr p.c. notes may, at
the option of note-holders, be converted
into ord. scrip to be issued at a premium
of 6s. Bd. per share in June of that year.
After deducting the £50,000 “devalua-
tion” reserve the book-value of stock
was down by £152,133 following a drop
of £97,912 in 1955.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 345., and at 475. 6d. return
4.2 p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution, the
£lOO convertible notes giving a similar
return at £132 ss. The well-backed prefs.
yield 6.1 p.c. at 245.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
WITH the experience of a few years
ago still very fresh in memory, the
managements of the trustee cos. must be
watching the present wage-inflationary
position with rather more concern than
most businessmen.
In that earlier period trustees’ earnings,
based mainly on commission and other
charges which had remained substantially
unchanged for well over half a century,
fell away very rapidly under the pressure
of rising labor costs. In one year
Perpetual Trustee Co., Australia’s biggest
corporate trustee, found that the expenses
of administering its business actually
exceeded the total income derived, includ-
ing the earnings from shareholders’ own
funds. Some relief was obtained in 1952
when amendments to the N.S.W. Trustee
Companies Act made small increases in
the scale of statutory charges; but these,
like the old, were fixed, and applied only
to new business, which meant that the
full benefits to net earnings would not
immediately become apparent.
This is how new and old rates com-
pared :
Old Scale. I New Scale.
2J p.c. on first £50,000 | 3$ p.c. on first £25,000
l| „ ~ next 50,000 13 „ „ next 25,000
1 „ ',, excess 100,000 | 2 ~ ~ next 50,000
j 1 ~ „ excess 100,000
Since the adjustments were made
Perpetual’s earnings have recovered satis-
factorily, though still below the pre-war
level when (between 1935 and 1940)
profits averaged 14.5 p.c. on capital.
Dropped to 8 p.c. in 1951 (from 12i p.c.
for the five years to 1950) and then to
4 p.c. in 1952, the dividend was pushed
up to 5 \ p.c. for the following year, and
then 8 p.c. for the next two terms. Last
year another half-point was added to
the payout from the distributable net
profit, which rose £526 to £20,426,
although total net income of £21,776,
including £1350 (£4285 in ’55) transferred
to corpus-commission reserve, was £2418
lower:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f — serves. serves.
1952 .. 586 4 p.c. = 8,060 299,093
1953 . . 10,359 6$ „ „ 11,000 298,422
1954 .. 19,259 8 „ „ 16,000 3,259 301,681
Freeholds revalued, £195,231 .. 496,912
To inner reserves, £12,000 .. .. 484,912
1955 .. 24,194 8 p.c. = 16,000 8,194 493,106
1956 . . 21,776 8| „ „ 17,000 4,776 497,882
On paid capital of £200,000 the £20,426
was equal to 10.2 p.c., as against 9.9 p.c.,
9.5 p.c., 5.1 p.c. and 0.3 p.c. back to
1952. Measured against the £8,818,350
increase in trust and agency funds, etc.,
administered, the movement in last
term’s net earnings was not particularly
promising. And salaries, the chief factor
behind the higher expenses last term,
look like becoming, along with the newly-
created land-tax, a bigger problem still
in the near future:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
£ £ £ P.c.
1952 . . 73,603,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
1953 . . 72,849,723 329,065 316,435 96.2
1954 . . 71,597,904 347,845 328,728 94.5
1955 . . 73,925,788 357,012 337,103 94.4
1956 . . 82,024,304 383,131 362,705 94.7
Shares and cash held by the co. as
custodian trustee for the very active Aus-
tralian Fixed Trusts Pty., Ltd., accounted
for £5,401,870 of the additional new
funds handled in 1956. Of total funds
of £82,024,304 administered unit trust
investments now represent £7,110,777.
The co.’s own funds are employed in
this way:
1954. 1956. 1956.
Paid capital .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves . . . . 301,681 505,106 509,85 - -
Creditors, etc.*.. ~ 84,798 18,728 18,286
Final div 9,000 8,000 9,000
£545,479 £731,834 £737,168
Premises, etc. .. .. 121,940 322,453 824,363
Mortgages, shares .. 89,008 134,282 144,81^
Sundry debtors .. 2,423 2,009 I»®*®
Govt, securities .. 226,093 140,200 140,200
Cash, etc 106,015 132,890 126,1 a,
£545,479 £731,834 £737,168
* Includes provision for income tax, etc.
As well as most of the year’s surplus,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
nrys, 422 Collinß Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
FERRIS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
Issue at Par (£5O)
of £50,000
Registered Deposits
bearing interest at the
rate of
8-
participating
up to
I
Ranking before preference and ordinary share capital.
This issue is to provide additional working capital for
the manufacture of Ferris Television Receivers, Channel
Master Television Aerials, accessories and component
parts.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application
for registered deposits may be obtained from:
The Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD., 752
Pittwater Road, Brookvale, N.S.W., or Messrs.
A.'D. Meares and Bishop, Brokers for the Issue, 126
Phillip Street, Sydney, or from any member of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
This announcement is abridged and does not fully conform to
the requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1956.
Applications for Registered Deposits will be received only on one
of the Forms of Application referred to and endorsed upon the
printed copy of the Prospectus.
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERB
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BABREKE
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3w), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown •
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Bttabliahed 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N- E. MANION, Manager.
Branched in ail States Agencies in all Country Centred
Make more money from
Sydney's demand for
MORE POWER!
Invest for 5 Years in the
R 4%
ELECTRICITY LOAN
Supplying 1,206,000 people, the Sydney County Council
is the State’s major distributor of electricity. As a Loan
investor, you will continue to profit by Sydney’s expansion
throughout the term you prefer—s, 10 or 20 years. Your
money, too, will earn 5i per cent annually—the highest
interest ever offered to S.C.C. Loan investors.
The Loan is secured on Council’s income—expected to
exceed £21,000,000 in 1956 —and is also an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Invest by Instalments if you wish!
A 10% deposit makes you a Loan investor immediately.
Apply at any Commonwealth Trading Bank, through a Stock-
broker, or at the S.C.C. city and suburban offices.
Loan No. 70, issued at par, closes not later than Bth October, 1956.
Underwritten by Ernest L. Davis & Co., Yorkshire House, 14 Spring Street.
Sydney, Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
$ YU-56
about £19,000 from maturing
loans and cash held was invested
in shares.
On ’Change the £lO shares,
paid to £2, are quoted at 48s.
(525. and 625. one year and two
years ago respectively), to return
7.1 p.c. on an 8| p.c. div. basis.
Of the remaining £B, £5 is a
reserve liability, callable, if
needed, only in the event of
liquidation. Net tangible cover
is £7 os. 4d.
Robert Bryce and Co., Ltd.
JUDGING by the way its scrip
J is currently regarded on Mel-
bourne ’Change, the feeling
among investors is that the real
test of earning-strength of this
merchant and importer will be
experienced over the next few
months. At present at about
7s. 6d., the lowest point touched
this year, the ss. ords. return a
long 10 p.c. on the basis of a
15 p.c. dividend, which was
maintained without any difficulty
last term.
As the co.’s position was out-
lined before shareholders on
August 9, however, prospects of
repeating last year’s fully satis-
factory performance in 1956-57
seem reasonably good:
Our business is primarily
concerned with the supply of
materials necessary to Australian
industry, both primary and
secondary, and we serve a very
wide range of industries....
Import-restrictions on the less-
essential B-category materials are
of little importance to us, our
main interest lies in the more
important materials included in
A and “Administration”
categories, and in these we do
not anticipate much change.
Sales for the first three months
of the current year are said to
show a further increase over
those for the same period last
year, and, in addition, the co.
has substantial orders on its
books.
The improvement in the out-
look, as compared with the posi-
tion in 1952, is due also to the
co.’s policy of developing its
business in Australian manu-
factures. These now account for
a substantial part of annual turn-
over.
Last term total sales were 18
p.c. above the previous year, and,
notwithstanding increased
operating costs, bigger trading
profits were recorded by all four
branches at Sydney, Adelaide,
Wellington and London.
Depreciation provision was £2OB
lighter at £5369, but extra taxa-
tion (up £8951 to £46,928) took
all of the gain and more besides,
leaving group profit £7167
weaker on the year:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Mch. Prft. ( Dividend serves.
31, £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £25,000 ..141,060
Prelim, exps. w/off, £3246 .. 137,814
’51..49,708 13.6p.c.=41,238 8,470 146,284
Addition reserves, £4140 ..150,424
’52..89,833 12J p.c.=57,817 52,016 202,440
Addition reserves, £5070 ..207,510
’53..16,796 10 p.c.=30,252 194,053
Addition reserves, £l9B .. 194,251
’54..60,666 13| p.c.=41,598 19,068 213,819
Reduction reserves, £3838 .. 209,981
’55..73,825 15 p.c.=45,378 28,447 238,428
Profit sale assets, £15,223 .. 268,651
Reduction reserves, £5OO ..253,151
’56.-66,658 15 p.c.=45,878 21,280 274,431
As a percentage of paid capital
of £302,531 the £66,658 was 22
p.c., compared with 24.4, 20.1,
5.6, 29.7 and 16.4 p.c. back to
1951. Including £15,223 profit
on the sale of the factory and
plant of the laundry- and dry-
cleaning-machinery-manufactur-
ing subsidiary, Mackenzie Bros.
Pty., Ltd., reserves at March 31
amounted to £274,431, only
£28,100 short of the capital
figure. Under the terms of sale,
Robert Bryce will continue to
distribute the machinery made
by Mackepzie Bros. Limited
finance available to hospitals,
etc., has affected business, but
otherwise the change in the
method of operating is reported
to be proving beneficial.
Reflecting mainly the disposal
of the subsidiary’s assets, invest-
ment in plant and buildings was
down £38,008:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £302,531 £302,531
Reserves .. .. 238,428 274,431
Outside interests.. 705 1,252
Overdraft .. .. 41,055 55,420
Creditors, etc. .. 432,375 388,342
Staff fund .. 5,539 9,069
Tax provision .. 38,293 46,928
Final divs. .. 30,252 30,252
£1,089,178 £1,108,225
Freeholds . . . . 125,622 103,656
Vehicles, plant . . 40,595 24,553
Shares .. .. 16,524 18,010
Stocks .. .. 460,351 423,484
Debtors .. .. 437,316 528,695
Cash, etc 8,770 14,827
£1,089,178 £1,108,225
Balance-sheet movements on
current account were generally
encouraging. Inventories
(£423,484) were £36,867 lighter,
£86,379 was added to debtors
(£523,695) and total current
liabilities were down £17,503. On
balancing-date working-capital
was £73,072 stronger at £431,995.
Net tangible asset cover was
9s. 7d. a share.
Oil Production and Reserves
[From X,. Owen]
pXHAUSTIVE information is
•*“' now available with reference
to the development of the world
petroleum industry up to the
end of 1955.
For the British Common-
wealth of Nations, the most con-
venient compilation is that issued
by the British Petroleum Co.,
Which gives a total world pro-
duction of crude petroleum of
786.3 million long tons for 1955.
This estimate is possibly on the
high side, but errors of com-
parison with different countries
employing different units of
volume are reduced by employ-
ing figures put forward in the
same units and, as far as possible,
compiled by the same organisa-
tion.
British Petroleum’s estimate
of “published proved” world
reserves at the end of 1955 is
26,055 million tons, of which
1470 million tons lie behind the
Iron Curtain. This suggests a
productive life of only just over
33 years for petroleum “in
sight”—a figure which would be
alarmingly low were it not for
the fact that production and
reserves are given as 704 million
tons and 21,710 million tons,
respectively, for 1954, indi-
cating a life of under 31 years.
Thus, during 1955, world pro-
duction of petroleum has in-
creased by 11£ per cent., while
“proved” reserves have gone
up 20 per cent. In general, for
many years past, petroleum
reserves have increased at a
greater rate than withdrawal by
production; this, however, has
not prevented periodic scares,
particularly in the lay press,
with reference to the possible
exhaustion of world petroleum
supplies.
For geographical and other
reasons, Australia draws most of
its supplies from the Eastern
Hemisphere, the proved reserves
of which —apart from those in
the oilfields behind the Iron
Curtain —amounted to 13,485
million tons at the end of 1954.
During 1955, this figure rose
phenomenally to 17,430 tons.
Thus eastern production in-
creased by only just over 15 per
cent, while reserves went up by
over 29 per cent.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Derby Day definitely established that
for ’56-’57 a hat is a hat is a rose is a rose
is a hat. (Thank you, Gertrude Stein, as
the radio-announcers say.) To be sure,
there were some rather ostentatiously
plain hats to be seen at Randwick,
patently “in good taste.” But good taste
can be boring, and what really took the
eye from the horses were the exquisite
fairy-floss hats in swathed tulle, the huge
chapeaux laden with roses and poppies
(all with that slightly wilted look which
is so expensive), and the fat little toques
formed of a single flower.
The day was sunny but chilly, so there
were some odd mixtures of winter-suits
and summer-hats. Redcraze won the
Colin Stephen Stakes, and a craze for red
won the fashion-honors. Mrs. Noel
Vincent’s red tweed coat over black-and-
white stripes was particularly smart; Mrs.
Alfred Morgan’s red silk coat was teamed
with a curly-white-chrysanthemum hat.
The most striking hat (in appearance, that
is, not only the hardest to dodge) was Mrs.
Bob Mclnerney’s enormous white platter
covered with fluffy petals,and feathers and
worn with a blue silk dress. Mrs. Roy
McCaughey’s white flower-sprinkled
toque was smart olive-green silk
suit. Mrs. Bill Murrell wore a clever
white straw hat, deep in crown and brim,
with an elegant black dress.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Waratah Festival is on, Sydney’s
first, and scheduled to be an annual affair.
On Saturday there was a swimming-
display combined with a jazz-concert and
a mannequin-parade at Victoria Park, and
on Sunday an orchestral-concert. The
orchestral-concert drew much the bigger
crowd, which may mean that Sydney is
becoming more cultured, or perhaps that
there are not so many places to go on a
Sunday afternoon. The time of going to
press was a little early to comment on the
Festival, which will continue for a fort-
night. So more next week. The waratah
honored, by the way, is of a type that
grows only in Sydney and its
neighborhood.
☆ ☆ it
One of the gayest of the Race Week
parties will be the Red Cross gala-
premiere of “Walk Into Paradise” at the
Metro (King’s Cross) on Friday. By all
accounts the dressing will be fabulous
and the general atmosphere out of this
world. Twelve of Sydney’s prettiest
young socialites will sell programmes,
including the two daughters of the
Norman Jenkyns, Valerie and Helen
(who will hardly have had time to look
Sydney over after their arrival in the
Orcades on Saturday, before they put on
their spring evening-dresses and go
programme-selling). By the way, tickets
for this gala-premiere can be had from
Red Cross, Jamieson-street.
☆ a ☆
Sighted for the first time a bit of a
television-programme during the week.
Piece viewed was a vintage-type Western
with a girl in it like Mary Miles Minter.
Did not wait to see what followed. Prob-
ably a remake of “The Sheik” or “Tilly’s
Busted Romance.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Query: will Princess Margaret set. a
precedent by wearing a ballerina to an
official reception? If so, what a pity!
The Government House reception is the
last stronghold of the full-length evening-
dress, undoubtedly the most graceful
garment a woman can wear these days.
☆ ☆ ☆
The City of Sydney Eisteddfod has
been proceeding merrily for the past
couple of weeks, bringing to light much
talent and confirming standards. The
matinee given at the Theatre Royal by
juvenile champions and winners was
delightful.
Noted that Lismore’s Robyn Somerville
won the juvenile pianoforte championship
this year. Robyn first appeared on this
programme five years ago and has won a
place every year since, except for last
year.
Kathleen Gorham judged the finals of
the ballet scholarship at this concert and
awarded the prize to Kathleen Geldard,
of Ashfield, as showing the most promise.
She mentioned, however, that the best
performance came from Barbara
Krouthen (Forest Lodge) and that the
standard generally was excellent. One
couldn’t help admiring the confidence of
3|-year-old Warren Smith, who, dressed
as a grasshopper, occupied the stage of the
Royal alone and seemed to have no
trouble in pitching his voice clearly to the
dress-circle. If only all professional actors
could do the same!
☆ ☆ ☆
An exhibition that is a must ior anyone
who loves fine china is now open at
Anthony Hordern’s china-department and
will continue until October 13. Selected
pieces by Royal Doulton, Wedgwood,
Royal Worcester, Minton, Royal Crown
Derby and Spode are beautifully dis-
played, the largest a 4ft. 6in. vase by
Royal Doulton valued at £lOOO, and the
smallest miniature pieces by Royal Crown
Derby. Of unusual interest is the set of
the Queen’s Beasts (the Lion of England,
the Unicorn of Scotland, the Red Dragon
of Wales, etc.) in Minton china, which
is being seen in Australia for the first
time.
In town for Race Week is Brooke
Weston, whose engagement to Tony
Morris was recently announced. Brooke
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jock
Weston, of Wellington (N.S.W.). Her
photo is by Dayne.
Noted that Sir Bernard Heinze has
accepted the presidency of the Federated
Music Clubs of Australia. This is a huge
organisation, with 30 clubs affiliated, and
aggregate audiences of about 6000. For
quite a long time it has been traditional
for the Director of the Conservatorium
to be president, and the federation is
more than delighted that Sir Bernard has
agreed to spare a corner of his busy life
for it.
* V V
The Australian Folklore Festival was
held on Saturday, both in the afternoon
and evening, some of the items coming
from old-timers performing the music
they learnt in the bush —Duke Tritton, of
Mudgee, for example, singing songs he
learnt while shearing, and Mrs. Sally
Sloane playing the fiddle-tunes she learnt
from her mother in years gone by. Most
of the performances, however, came from
younger people who are adapting the
music to their own modern style. The
Bushwhackers Band, decked-out in the
bush clothes of the ’nineties, were to the
fore, playing such exotic instruments as
the bush-bass, made of a tea-chest, a
sapling and a piece of fishing-line!
# # . V
Among the festivities to follow the
A.J.C.’s spring racing carnival this year
will be the opening of Jim Bendrodt’s
new restaurant, scheduled for the last
week in October. Next to the flying-
boat base at Rose Bay, it will be so
arranged that everyone will have a view
of the harbor (it’s all done with mirrors,
one hears), and there will be quite a
Mediterranean atmosphere. Probably so
much so that a few years hence the Medi-
terranean restaurants will be claiming to
have “quite a Rose Bay” atmosphere.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Deric Deanes leave for England
towards the end of the month, and in
their honor the John D. K. Roches, of
Cranford, Edgecliff, are giving a party
on Thursday. Guests include Mr. and
Mrs. Ned Raine, Mr. and Mrs. T. M.
Scott, Dr. and Mrs. Brian Haynes, Mrs.
Airlie Bouvet, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Buck-
land, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Bennett, Dr.
and Mrs. Pardey, Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Frost, Major and Mrs. Austin Chapman.
'☆ ☆ ☆
A ceremonial parade and garden-party
was held on Sunday at the Memorial
Oval of St. Aloysius College for its 1956
passing‘-out ceremony. Sir John North-
cott, Administrator of the Common-
wealth, took the salute, and Lieut.-
General Woodward and Rear-Admiral
H. J. Buchanan were present.
☆ ☆ *
An interesting talk to be given on
Wednesday, October 3, is “A Plan tor a
Shrine of Australiana” at the Royal Art
Society’s Exhibition, Education Depart-
ment’s Gallery. The speaker, Miss Mary
Edwell-Burke, will be introduced by Mr.
Harold Best.
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended the wedding at St. Patrick s
Cathedral of Marie Berchmans Daly
and Major Kevin Thomas Purcell
(R.A.E.M.E.). Marie, who is the only
daughter of Dame Mary Daly, of Kew,
and the late Dr. J. J. Daly, was given
away by her brother John. She wore
a lovely gown of French bridal-lace
patterned in a fragile rose-design. Pearl-
centred lace-roses outlined the heart-
shaped neckline, and the skirt was very
full. Her long veil, mounted on ice-blue
tulle, was caught with a cap of lace-
leaves, pearls and rhinestones, with
orange-blossom from her mother s
wedding-veil set at each side. She carried
white roses.
Mrs. Ronald Colgan was matron-of-
honor and Joyce Date bridesmaid. Both
wore short frocks of finely-pleated white
chiffon, with pale-blue satin shoes and
curvettes of iridescent paillettes. They
carried white tulips. The bridegroom,
who is the younger son of Mrs. Agnes
Purcell, of Parkville, and the late Mr.
E. J. Purcell, had his brother Brian as
best man and Captain Ken Smith as
groomsman.
Reception for 150 guests was in the
Lower Town Hall. Dame Mary, receiving
the guests, wore a frock and jacket of
rose-pink pure-silk patterned in black
and a wide-brimmed pale-pink melusine
hat. Mrs. Purcell also helped to receive
the guests, among whom were Mrs.
Flarry Sinn, in full-skirted black faille
coat-frock and toque of tiny white
flowers; Mrs. John Mullaney, whose
large picture-hat had a brim of layers of
lilac-toned tulle, and the high crown
massed with violets ; Mrs. Arthur Adams,
her picture-hat of black tulle and fine
straw; Mrs. A. A. Lord, in saxe-blue
velvet coat and scarlet straw hat swathed
with matching tulle ; Mr. and Mrs. Barney
Hyams and their daughter Shirley (she
wearing a white lace platter-hat with a
floral frock); and singer Rita Miller,
smart in a black ensemble and tiny white
hat.
Diana, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
George Laurens, of Toorak, is a former
student of St. Catherine’s. An A-grade
tennis-player, she is also a swimmer.
Diana, who recently celebrated her
“coming out” with a party at her parents
home, expects to go to the University
next year.
Although the committee of the Olympic
Torch Ball arranged the cocktail-party
at Claridge’s, Mrs. Harold Holt organised
the glamorous fashion-parade. Mr. and
Mrs. O. A. Kaldor came from Sydney
with a collection of high-fashion clothes
from top Trench designers Dior, Balmain,
Desses and de Givency and British
designers Sybil Connolly, John Cavanagh
and Frederick Starke. From Mrs. Holt’s
own salon came two wonderful
ensembles. The only material used in
the parade was Sekers nylon.
The party and parade yielded £5OO,
which will go to the Olympic Torch Ball
at the Palais on November 22. This
function takes the place of the annual
Derby Eve Ball, but the proceeds will
still go to the Victorian Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
Many smart outfits were seen at the
parade, at which 200 were present. Mrs.
Constance Day chose a sheath of navy
taffeta with a large bow on one hip and
with sequins embroidered on the square
neckline; Mrs. John Newton’s chiffon
frock was in emerald-green tonings. Mrs.
Ken Guest’s hat, an outsize cartwheel
in stiffened black tulle, had the crown
closely massed with red, white and black
organdie-petals ; Mrs. Alan Ritchie’s large
hat was of toast-colored fine straw, the
brim trimmed with large red roses and
green leaves.
Mrs. Harold Holt wore a garnet-red
faille coat over a black dress patterned
with garnet roses, and a tiny garnet satin
pillbox hat. Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade’s
short dress of haze-blue velvet went with
a matching coat lined with gold lame.
Committee-secretary Mrs. Bruce Rose
wore a full-length satin evening-coat over
a frock in matching mushroom-pink lace.
Ticket-secretary Mrs. lan Miller wore a
green frock with a white curvette formed
by a tiny bird with outstretched wings.
☆ ☆ ☆
The gay, lilting tunes of “Pinafore,”
last of the season’s Gilsullivan offerings,
were enthusiastically received by a huge
audience at Her Majesty’s Theatre. Sir
Frank and Lady Tait had with them a
party of children, including their three
daughters Isla, Anne and Sally. Sir
Frank and Lady Richardson were with
Sir Alan and Lady Brown. Noted also,
Captain Charles Burge, ex-R.N., and his
wife, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Mitchell, their
son John and his fiancee Joy Carman,
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Scott, Mr. and Mrs.
Thorold Gunnersen and their daughter
Margaret, Mrs. Margaret Saker, Eliza-
beth Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. J. Carlson and
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Watts.
☆ ☆ ☆
Historic St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, wa.
setting for the marriage of Suzanne
Joyce, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. A. Tallis, of Boorinda, Dookie, and
Edward Rodney Knight, youngest son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. E. V. Knight,
formerly of Tasmania. The bride chose a
princess-line gown of heavy cream corded-
silk, the bodice featuring a wide V-
neckline and long sleeves. The back
fullness of the skirt ended in a short
train. From a pearl-trimmed bandeau
fell a fingertip tulle veil, and she carried
a sheaf of cream tulips. Ailsa Holyman
and Elizabeth Gutteridge ’maided in short
frocks of deep-red velvet. In their hair
were red velvet curvettes, and they carried
bouquets of carnations in crushed-
strawberry tonings. The ’groom’s brother
Rex was best man, and the bride’s brother
Peter was groomsman. Reception was at
the Hotel Windsor. Honeymoon will be
spent at Honolulu, after which the newly-
weds go to London for two years.
☆ ☆ ☆
Spring-blossom, daffodils and japonica
made a gay display in the reception-rooms
of the home of Mrs. A. A. Lord when
she was hostess at a pre-wedding
luncheon-party for Marie Daly. Among
the guests were Marie’s mother (Dame
Mary Daly), Mrs. A. A. Calwell, Lady
Angliss, Lady Knox and her daughter
Mrs. Robert Lindsay, Mrs. E. F. Billson,
Valerie Lord (Hobart), Suzanne Gunn
(Launceston), Mrs. B. J. Hyams (Sydney),
Mrs. Alwyn Brown, Mrs. Kenneth Hope
and Maureen Mackie. Among the
wedding-gifts Marie has received is one
of embroidered-linen from the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester.
CANBERRA
Madame Chen, wife of the Chinese
Minister, wore a rich gold-and-black
brocade jacket over an ivory-colored silk
skirt, the ensemble completed by long
jade earrings, when she was guest-speaker
at an afternoon-party arranged by St.
John’s Churchwomen’s Guild to mark the
guild’s 28th birthday. Large bowls ot
pink and white spring-blossom decorated
the Lady Hopetoun Room of Canberra’s
Y.W.C.A., where Mrs. R. G. Arthur, wife
of Bishop Arthur, rector of historic St.
John’s Church, presided; she wore a
grey-and-white tweed suit and small white
hat.
Ladies from 20 different church
organisations, including some from
country parishes, heard Madame Chen's
absorbing and informative address on
Chinese porcelain, in which she traced a
vivid picture of the development of
Chinese ceramic arts from the earliest
dynasties. ■ , , .
A large pink-and-white birthday-cake
decorated with 28 candles was cut by the
guest-of-honor.


For Your
EUROPEAN TOUR
new and used cars for sale with
repurchase price guaranteed, or
rental at advantageous terms.
FAIRWAY MOTORS LTD.,
Southampton, England.
Missing Friends
RE Estate of GEORGE ERNEST GREY.
—The abovenamed son of HENRY HAR-
WOOD GREY and SUSANNAH GREY
(nee HOBBS), was born at Carlton on
the 9th October, 1880, and died intestate
in New Zealand on the 30th April, 1955.
His next-of-kin, who appear to be his
brother and sisters, HENRY, AGNES,
FLORENCE, MINNIE and GERTRUDE,
should immediately contact the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. IF. Dues bury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in all States.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causer Jurisdiction.
RETWEEN MYRA IRENE WREN Peti-
tioner and MAURICE WREN Respondent.
TO MAURICE WREN late of Ryan Street
South Grafton.—TAKE NOTICE that the
said MYRA IRENE WREN has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion and take notice
that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the 23rd day
of November 1950 and in the event of
you not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. DATED this 21st day of
September, 1950.— COLLINS & POLLACK,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, Post Office
Chambers, Victoria Street, Grafton, 3C.
And at South Grafton.
IN THE. SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM SMITH late of 2 Havelock
Street, Coogee, in the State of New South
W'ales.—TAKE NOTICE that MABEL
MARY SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3190 of 195 G on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 20th November
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MOLLOY r &
SCHRADER, Solicitors, of 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.— J. DOUG HAN,
Registrar.
HOLDER
leads to sales
because it * lhe
i.;.voost value
Official registration figures prove
Holden Utility’s outstanding popu-
larity. The totals just released for Australian
registrations during the first six months
of 1956 are:
HOLDEN UTILITY .. 7,752
Utility B ... . 2,195 Utility D .... 1,177
Utility C .... 1,473 Utility E .... 1,081
Holden is Australia’s most popular Utility
because it is the one utility designed and
built expressly for Australian conditions;
because only Holden offers you at a low list
price the perfect combination for Australia
of 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. performance, generous
75J" long load space and exceptional
durability and outstanding dependability
reported by so many owners from every
part of the country.
And the good-looking Holden Utility has
won acceptance, too, for high re-sale value,
servicing ease and ready availability of
low-cost, factory-guaranteed spare parts
throughout Australia.
See your Holden Dealer today
Let him prove to you Holden Utility can do
your job, carry your loads. Drive Holden
Utility yourself, and you, too, will be
convinced Holden is beyond all doubt
Australia’s finest utility buy.
HOLDEN’S UNMATCHED
COMBINATION OF VALUE
FEATURES
• 6 cylinder, 21 h.p. “ square ” engine per-
formance. • Outstanding dependability and
petrol economy, with many owners re-
porting 30 m.p.g. • Passenger car comfort
and ease of handling—turning circle only
37 feet. • Generous pay-load area — 15V
floor length. • Nation-wide availability of
specialised service and low-priced, factory-
guaranteed parts. • High resale value.
HOLDEN* Australia’s Own Utility
♦Registered
Trade Mark.
List Price £B5O plus tax. Australia’s Own Panel Van. List Price £865 plus tax.
Convenient GMAC hire purchase available. ‘Air Chief’ car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD • Brisbane .Sydney • Melbourne .Adelaide .Perth
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia UlgO
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Sun” Aria Finals
The adjudicators had an easy
task in selecting this year’s
winner when the big Sydney
Eisteddfod was wound-up at
Sydney Town Hall.
Bass-baritone Russell Cooper,
singing the aria with which he
won the A.B.C. competition
earlier in the year —Boris’s
Monologue from “Boris Godou-
nov” —and adding the “Credo”
from “Otello,” showed his
superiority in all departments.
He sang with power, resonance,
assurance and judgment; above
all, he was able to get right to
the core of both these rich
musical characters.
Of the other seven finalists,
bass-baritone Clifford Grant
stood out for quality of voice
and stylish interpretation,
especially in the “Irifelice” from
“Ernani,” but the adjudicators
placed him after baritone Kevin
Mills, whose “Prologue” from
“Pagliacci” lacked the needed
weight, and lyric tenor Richard
Bromley, who was also short on
carrying-capacity.
* * *
Robert Masters Quartet
This ensemble presented three
piano-quartets in their second
Sydney concert for Musica
Viva.
The first was Dvorak’s E
Flat, replete with vigorous
rhythmic material and Bohemian
folk-melodies and with plenty
of pulsing vitality in the opening
and closing allegros. In the
slow section the ’cello sang the
lovely chief melody with rich
tone, and whirling peasants were
never far out of sight in the
waltz of the third movement.
Brahms’s A Major, with its
complicated duplet and triplet
rhythms in combination, found
the quartet at their best for the
night. The effect of muted
strings against the melody of the
piano was enchanting.
Sandwiched between these
was Benjamin Frankel’s Quartet
(1933), in which the scherzo is
claimed to be “humorous, with
a rather taunting wit.” If aim-
less and atonal leaping from
one idea to another constitutes
wit and humor, then the audi-
ence should have been rolling
in the aisles.
Mozart in Brisbane
The Elizabethan Trust chose
“The Marriage of Figaro” to
bait the box-office lines for its
short Brisbane season, and better
bait couldn’t be found anywhere.
Lighter in texture than “The
Don” or “The Magic Flute,”
more plausible than “Cosi” as
theatre, this production of “The
Marriage” would grace any
English-speaking opera-house in
the world. It lacks a little of the
sophistication that tradition
alone can bestow on the best of
Covent Garden or “The Wells,”
but vocally it was not a crotchet
inferior to the London presenta-
tions.
After weakening the opening
section by a pedestrian tempo,
Joseph Post had to wait until
the entrance of his superb
Cherubino (Bettina Benfield) to
recover the lost ground of gaiety.
From this point the opera never
faltered.
John Shaw’s Count Almaviva
was an unerring blend of lechery,
dignity and authority. Nita
Maughan, his Countess, did not
manage her first aria with
ease. It is fiendishly placed on
second-act curtain-rise, to be
sung in “cold blood,” as it were.
Later her “Dove Sono” and share
in the letter-duet with Susanna
were exquisite.
Concerning the Countess,
Dennis Arundell's production is
at variance with tradition. Here
we were given, not a lady of high
degree unfortunately required to
join her maid in a plot to catch-
out the erring Count, but some-
one nearer to Susanna’s status
and alertness; an unauthorised
extension, you might say, from
Rossini’s “Barber of Seville.”
In this action, Arundell seemed
to overlook an idea close to
Mozart’s heart. He was a
musical servant to Austrian
aristocracy, and in more than one
place in his operas (as in Beau-
marchais) it is the servant who
is resourceful, in contrast to the
ineffectual great.
Susanna is the difficult role to
sustain in this opera—girlish,
yet all woman, intelligent, and
vocally as pure of tone as the
virginity she is unwilling to lose
to her philandering overlord.
After sparkling on all these
facets of her character, she
crystallises them in her fourth-
act aria. Only in that summing-
up did Valda Bagnall belie this
account by a fraction.
John Cameron’s Figaro
seemed to force its liveliness in
the first act. “If you are after
a little amusement . . .” he
inquires of the audience, but in
that very phrase there wasn’t a
trace of roguish laughter, and his
most famous aria to Cherubino
was almost produced out of
existence by some unnecessary
and distracting stage-business.
Elsewhere, he was impeccable.
Dennis Arundell’s production
kept on the move, even through
arias, reflective or otherwise ; as
the Countess flitted across the
stage in her meditative soliloquy
the present commentator
wondered whether the company
was to visit Melbourne, not to
add to the Qlympic festivities,
• but to participate in the Games.
Members of the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra were con-
ducted by Joseph Post. He will
be more smiling, perhaps, in
future performances, but the
piece enjoyed resounding success,
due as much as anything to the
remarkable clarity of the sung
English, which enabled the
opera to be enjoyed as a comedy
in its own right. In ensemble
singing it was possible to attend
to one's favorite performer and
follow her line of thought as
easily as in everyday speech.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursts
Ten-guinea Art
As a confirmed turtle-addict
this commentator found it hard
to swim off from Eileen Mayo’s
“Turtles” diving round and
round in green water at the ten-
guinea exhibition at David
Jones’, Sydney.
But, amongst a mixed lot,
traditional and “contemporary,”
there are quite a few other pic-
tures worth looking at: notably,
George Lawrence’s “River
Flats,” J. L. Allen’s “Sutton
Forest,” H. A. Hanke’s “Cloudy
Day,” W. H. Hibble’s two small
landscapes, the two by G. K.
Townshend, Ronald Steuart’s
“Tuggerah Lakes” and Florence
Broadhurst’s “Wild Apple
Blossom.”
Other painters well represented
include Dora Jarret, Claudia
Wood gate, Murch, Alison Reh-
fisch, Erik Langker (“Evening
Light”), Clif Peir (the huts at
Hermannsburg), Margaret Coen,
Jean Appleton, Jeffrey Smart
and Judy Cassab.
* ❖
Melbourne Women Painters
The 47th annual exhibition of
the Society of Women Painters
is at the Athenaeum Gallery,
Melbourne. Eleanor Dunn’s
“Springtime,” depicting a girl
reading out-of-doors, has depth ;
P. Hurry has a liquid still-life ;
and there is a wayward charm
about the “Cactus” of M. E.
Lormer. Mary McQueen’s
“Studio Interior” is sketched
freely, and in “Rosemary
Brabant” Mary McLeish has
another of her shorthand-notes
which could have been carried
further. The most faithful pic-
ture in the show is Lesley
Sinclair’s “Grattan-street, Carl-
ton” ; it’s reputedly a dingy
suburb, but the artist has glori-
fied it.
The sculptor-members have
been slightly more adventurous
than their colleagues of the
brush-and-palette. In “Where Is
Thy Sting?” Miss Ola Cohn has
made a few marks on a piece of
timber to indicate the figures of
a mother and a baby, and then
given the wood a high polish
which has destroyed what variety
it had before she touched it. A
bust of Miss Cohn by Cecelia
Zindler is academic, but it is at
least recognisable as a portrait.
The most remarkable work in
this division is, however, “A
Chief” in Ravenna mosaic—a
curious piece of work in which
the aborigine depicted looks as
if he had been caught in a
Mallee duststorm, although that
is obviously not the effect
intended.
Talkies
“23 Paces to Baker-street”
(Sydney Mayfair): Van Johnson,
as a blind American playwright,
hears a fragmentary conversa-
tion in the parlor of a London
pub, and, with only a perfume
and a voice as clues, sets out to
prevent a kidnapping. There are
W'ell-devised situations and taut
suspense, with a crackerjack
denouement as the killer stalks
the blind sleuth in a blacked-
out flat.
“Vera Cruz” (Sydney Plaza):
A gory, all-action opus set in
Mexico during the War of
Independence, with Gary Cooper
and Burt Lancaster as two
American freebooters, who, in
the temporary service of Maxi-
milian, form an uneasy partner-
ship to purloin Max’s bullion.
In the finale Cooper, the good-
bad man, and Lancaster, the bad-
bad man, shoot it out, one to
win. Take your pick.
“Bus Stop” (Sydney Regent):
Most of the humor in this some-
what slow-moving comedy about
a backblocks cattleman and
his violent and unorthodox woo-
ing of a honkytonk singer comes
from a performance of rip-
roaring rumbustiousness by new-
comer Don Murray. Marilyn
Monroe howls a song and gets
a few laughs at the wrong
moments.


Rebels
By MARTIN NESTOR
WHILE the Premier, the
Rt. Hon. Herbert
Spencer Jackson, was
speaking on the
Address-in-Reply debate in the
Chamber, six of his colleagues,
including two Ministers of the
Crown, were holding an
animated discussion with the
National Secretary of the Party,
Alex. Griffith, in the lobby.
What they were saying was not
complimentary to their leader.
The six included the Hon.
George Kayes, Minister of
Labor, the youngest member of
the group, who was acting as
spokesman for the others. A
short, energetic, dark man of
about thirty years, he spoke in
machine - gun sentences,
emphasising his points by tap-
ping the palm of his left hand
rapidly with the fingers of the
other. Those fingers were
trembling. Kayes was in the
grip of strong emotions which he
was doing his best to conceal.
His five companions were
scarcely less affected.
The Hon. William Hulton,
Minister of External Affairs, was
peering anxiously first at Kayes
and then at Griffith, as though
he were intent on hearing every
syllable even before it was
voiced. His skinny hands —he
was nearly seventy years of age
and looked older than that —
alternately stroked his coat-lapels
and were thrust into his pockets.
He was almost incredibly thin.
It was a standing joke amongst
his colleagues that he could
never take a shower-bath because
the water would miss him. But
behind that unpromising out-
ward appearance was a solid
record of academic and practical
achievement. Hulton, in his day,
had been considered one of the
brightest scholars in the country ;
a man of varied and extensive
knowledge, competent to partici-
pate in a discussion on almost
any„subject; a man with a photo-
graphic brain, he could read a
book almost as fast as he could
turn the pages. Age had dimmed
his intellect and had disturbed
his judgment ; else, why had he
attached himself to such a
shallow salesman-type as Kayes,
in a revolt against his leader and
his colleagues?
Kayes was nothing morfe than
an opportunist and adventurer ;
but he was one of the greatest
orators in the country. His
speeches, emotional appeals com-
pounded of religion and politics,
had gained for him a huge
popular following. Those who
knew him well realised what
little solidity there was in him ;
yet they were prepared to con-
cede that he had something
which no other member in his
party could claim: the
magnetism of personality. He
might be, he was, a mountebank ;
but that was known to only
a few. He had fooled practi-
cally everybody for a long time
now and he might continue to do
so for a long time to come.
The four other politicians in
the lobby were all back-benchers.
There was Higgis, a crafty little
man of about fifty, ambitious
but dull; Burton, in his forties,
a rotund union-secretary whose
whole life was wrapped-up in the
welfare of the party ; Craven,
the incorrigible pessimist, who
could never make a speech with-
out drawing attention to the
imminence of a war or a slump
or both; and Beaufort, an
elderly ex-parson who delighted
in retailing and listening to
smutty stories.
“I tell you, Alex.,” Kayes was
saying, “the old fellow has had
it. We’ve got to kick Jackson
out; nicely, of course, but
decisively. He’s unpopular
throughout the country, as you
must know yourself. In next
year’s general election we’ll be
sunk unless we have a new
leader. You must realise your-
self that we simply can’t afford
to let matters drift.”
dug down into his
” hip-pocket, and extracting a
packet of cigarettes put one of
them between his lips and lit it.
He extinguished it hastily when
he spied a messenger, at the far
end of the lobby, staring at him.
“I say,” he commented, “I’ve
never been too sure about smok-
ing in this place. Is it O.K. for
me to light up, or not?”
Kayes shrugged his shoulders
impatiently.
“I don’t know, but I don’t
think there’ll be any bother
about it so long as we’re with
you. We can smoke, wear our
hats, do anything else, short of
rape and murder.”
“And that’s very good, from
your point of view,” Griffith
replied equably. “But the point
is that I have a horror of being
ticked-off by any underling in
this place, or anywhere else for
that matter. So far —and I’ve
been in this political game for
twenty-odd-years I’ve never
'struck any trouble ; and I don’t
want to, because, as sure as God
made little apples, Jackson would
get to hear of it and would
demand an explanation. Per-
haps I’d better get rid of this
fag.”
He crushed the end of his
cigarette against his shoe, to
make doubly certain that it was
out, and disposed of the rem-
nants in the old-fashioned brass
container near by.
Hulton, who in the last few
years had found it necessary to
rest as much as possible, sat
down On one of the long leather
couches ranged against the wall.
His eyes closed momentarily, but
he sat up alertly as Griffith
rejoined the group.
“Alex.,” Hulton said —he had
known Griffith for many years
and had never addressed him by
other than his Christian-name—
“what do you honestly think of
all this? Just about everybody
in the party, as far as I can see,
is determined to oust Jackson.”
As was his habit, he spoke care-
fully and precisely. “I have given
much thought to the problem
and I cannot see any alternative.
We members of a long-
established political party adhere
to certain principles. We should
never depart from those prin-
ciples, except of course in
circumstances where we are
forced to the conclusion that our
views are unpopular—maybe
only temporarily—and we are
forced, against our will, to
retrace our steps, to compromise,
to do things to which we are
wholeheartedly opposed, in the
certain knowledge that, sooner or
later, the time will be propitious
to make further advances. But
when we find ourselves saddled
with a leader who has no
principles at all, who is willing
to say and do anything— any-
thing that he thinks meets with
public approval—and more often
than not he is wrong, then
surely you must agree that a new
leader should be chosen?”
Griffith smiled; there was no
mirth in his smile ■ but from
long experience^ he had learned
the value of a well-timed grin.
“Never never never, never,”
Jackson, the Premier, had said to
him, years ago when Jackson had
induced him to join the staff
of the party, “never lose your
temper; never be hasty in com-
mentine on anvthine vou hear •
HsteTbut do„“rclment.
you are perfectly certain that
what you say cannot be repeated
later as a charge against you.
Play for time whenever you are
faced with a serious situation.”
Tr , , .
He had not invariably heeded
that advice , not during he first
tour or five years as a paia
employee ol a political paity. He
had paid dearly for h,s lapses.
a «/rmfJprpH °
often won
managed to survive those early
years when he had known, or
h ! ■U V lit
what the par y » 1
should be said, how it should
cnt *'r. lsrn ancl g .. .
with the public. He was appa
at his earlier immaturity of mm .
Griffith looked round the
group. Six-feet in height, slightly#
stooped, dressed immaculately,
grey-haired, lean and swarthy,
he was a person to be picked out
in any crowd. He had “the
grand manner.” People were
often surprised to learn that he
was not one of the elite. He
had had little education, though
he was a voracious reader of
articles, books and pamphlets—
all dealing with politics. Justly,
perhaps, he claimed to know
more about the art and science
of politics than any other in
the country.
“I wonder how the Premier is
faring tonight?” he said incon-
sequentially. “There are not
many members in the Chamber.”
TTIGGIS, who had been shift-
ing from one foot to the
other while Kayes had been
speaking, snapped impatiently,
“Mr. Kayes posed a question.
What do you think about all
this? We’re going into caucus as
soon as the House rises. We
asked you along to get your
opinion. What is it?”
Griffith smiled again.
- “I think,” he said, “that all
this is most interesting.”
“Interesting!” Burton pushed
forward aggressively. “Is that
all you’ve got to say?”
Griffith was about to reply
when Hulton spoke again.
“Alex.,” he said persuasively,
“you’d better come into the team
and give us a hand. What we
want you to do is to buttonhole
a few fellows who we think
would join us. None of us is cer-
tain that they wouldn’t confide in
Jackson if we spoke to them our-
selves ; but they wouldn’t give
you away. We want you to
sound them out for us. You
needn’t say we intend to insist on
electing a new leader tonight;
but drop a hint that the party is
grievously dissatisfied with Jack-
son, and that many in the party
organisation would welcome a,
change, whenever it might
come.”
“I’m not accustomed to pulling
chestnuts out of the fire for other
people,” Griffith replied coolly.
“Still, the idea may have some
merit. How long has this con-
spiracy been going on? Who
started it?”
Kayes flushed and his eyes
narrowed dangerously.
“ ‘Conspiracy’ is hardly the
right word to use, Alex.”
“No offence meant, Jim. I just
wanted to get a line on things.
I suppose I’m right in assuming
that you’re the instigator of the
plot, that it all started some
considerable time ago, and that
you expect to be the new
leader?”
Kayes nodded.
“I’m holding nothing back,
Alex., because I know I can trust
you. The idea was mine. But I
soon found that others were
thinking the same way. That’s
so, isn’t it, Higgis?”
“Quite true,” Higgis replied,
seating himself on the couch
beside Hutton. “There has been
a lot of dissatisfaction with the
Premier. Believe me, Alex.,
Jackson hasn’t a close friend in
the whole of the team.”
“He’s a lone wolf, I know
that,” said Griffith. “He has
always been one, always will be.
But you knew that well enough
when you first elected him
leader.”
“/ didn’t have a say in electing
him,” Kayes interjected heatedly.
“He was leader long before 1
came into the House and even
before I joined the party.
Twenty-three years is a long
time, Alex. Jackson has been
leader exactly that long.”
“Quite. And let me tell you,
Kayes, that if you don’t watch
your step he’ll still be leader
long after you’ve left the House,
and the party, too. No, don't
get your hackles up. I’m just
giving you a friendly warning.
It’s a matter of complete indif-
ference to me who is leader of
the party —you, or Jackson, or
anybody else, so long as that
leader doesn't get ideas about
tipping me out of my job. I’m
too old to consider looking
round for a new one. That’s
what I’m concerned about
mainly.” ,
“And the welfare of the party
doesn’t interest you?” Hulton
inquired querulously. “Surely
you don’t mean that?”
“I keep my views on that to
myself, Hulton. But I would
say this —nobody, none of you,
has worked harder for the party
than I have, or put up with more
kicks and insults, or received less
thanks. Oh, I’m not embittered
or cynical; don’t think that. But
I do know that when the party
is on the up and up, you fellows
get all the credit. I don’t mind
that. But when the reverse
happens, you don’t blame youi-
selves. Oh, no. You blame
the party organisation ; and that
means me, principally. I want
the party to stay in office because
that makes my job more secure .;
but I don’t fancy jeopardising my
job by joining in any intrigue
against any member of Parlia-
ment, the Premier or anybody
else. If you’re successful tonight,
Kayes, I’ll serve you as faithfully
as I’ve served Jackson.” He
thrust his hands into his pockets,
with an air of finality, then added
as an afterthought, “Don’t try
any of your histrionics on me,


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire anti Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Fuil/i in iJtc
Fnluf*c
\
To Australians with a sense of the enduring
values in life, the holding of the Olympic Games
in Melbourne »next month will survive in memory
as a great national event.
As one who has travelled widely in Greece
and learnt to love its language and culture, I feel
a personal pride and interest in the occasion. They
are more than a contest in athletic strength. They
express something that is as ancient as it is new—
the will of men to reduce their rivalry to the clean,
wholesome arenas of sport.
The Games of Greece were at their height
when the spiritual battle for men’s minds was
between the elect of Jehovah and instructors in
the worship of pagah gods.
They were being held when the Apostles went
into Asia Minor, to Greece and to Rome to preach
of the Risen Christ. The Games were the seal of
one nation’s proud manhood for nearly twelve
centuries before the Roman Emperor, Theodosius,
abolished them in 394 A.D.
And when the ruins of their former glory were
uncovered in the Valley of Olympia, a Frenchman,
Baron Pierre de Coubertin, was inspired to revive
them in the hope of building “a stronger, more
valiant and generous humanity.”
Australia is one of only four countries to have
been represented at every modern Olympiad since
the first was held at Athens in 1896. The other
three are Britain, the United States and Greece.
Our athletes have done well at the Games in
the past. I believe they will bring their share of
honours to our country now. But the mounting of
a dais in classic contest is not the only prize. The
test for Australia is that the 1956 Games should
succeed as an exercise in unselfish, world-minded
living.
Baron de Coubertin defined the code when
he said: “The important thing is not to win, but
to take part ... not the triumph, but the struggle
.. . not to have conquered, but to have fought well.”
Let us run the good race —and all honour to
the victors!
Kayes. You’ve never fooled me
and you never will.”
BURTON said jerkily, “It’s not
a question of trying to fool
anybody. We’re not asking much
of you. If Greenstreet and Shall-
brook, and the others we want
you to have a yarn with, seem
unreceptive, well and good. On
the strength of such a conversa-
tion, Jackson would never be
able to pin anything on you,
even if he got to hear of it.”
“Yes, I understand that,”
Griffith replied. “I understand
that only too well. But Jackson
would hear of it, and, more so
than any other living man, he
knows how to put two and two
together. I’d be sacked on the
spot.”
“Nonsense,” said Kayes. “I
tell you definitely that we’ve got
a majority of votes already.
We'll look after you. And we
simply can’t fail.”
“Then why try to drag in
others when you don’t really
need them?”
“Because we want an over-
whelmingly decisive vote. We
don’t want Jackson to try and
stage a comeback later.”
Griffith regarded h i m
sardonically.
“The vote will be decisive, all
right. Don’t worry about that.
But, which way? Yours or
Jackson’s? Frankly, 1 don’t
think you realise what sort of a
man you’re up against. Jackson
is the most astute, unscrupulous,
cunning, ruthless and resourceful
politician this country has ever
known. He’s leader now, and,
mark my words, there’s nothing
he wouldn’t try, there’s nothing
he wouldn’t stoop to do, to
remain leader. When it comes
to guile and deceit and treachery,
Kayes, you’re a babe in arms
compared with him. His ear is
on the ground all the time. It’s
no use losing your temper”—as
Kayes clenched his fist and took
a step towards him —“that won’t
cut any ice with me. I can look
after myself pretty well. This
is a time for plain-speaking—
and time is running short. Do
you really believe that Jackson
doesn’t know what you’re up
to?”
Kayes was getting rattled.
“Of course I do.”
“Well, I don’t. I’m prepared
to bet you one-hundred pounds,
here and now, that he knows all
about it.”
“Did you know yourself?”
“No, but I’m not Jackson, nor
even a pale shadow of him.
Would you care to put up the
hundred quid?”
Kayes looked away. “I don’t
think it’s the sort of thing that
one should bet on,” he said
stiffly.
“No, especially because you’d
lose,” Griffith continued
brutally. “For instance, Kayes
—assuming you can trust all
your chatterbox members to
keep quiet till the curtain goes
up—have you mentioned the plot
to anybody outside the House?”
“No.”
He lied, and Griffith could tell
he was lying. So could the
others.
“Think again,” Griffith said,
fumbling in his pockets for his
cigarettes. “Remember, if you
have, and if Jackson has ever
met up with that person or
persons, you’ll be reminded of
it tonight.”
The sweat stood out on
Kayes’s forehead. “Now I come
to think of it,” he said thickly,
"I did mention it to Griskin,
the chairman of the Shipping
Board. But Griskin is a reliable
chap. I’ve been friends with
him for years. In fact, as you
know, it was I who first recom-
mended his appointment to the
board. What’s more, he’s
thoroughly behind us. He’s
been very helpful.”
Griffith stared at him
incredulously.
“Good God, you utter numb-
skull, to trust a man like that!
How much did you tell him?”
The others were equally
startled, Hulton most of all, but
they made no comment. Under
their accusing stares, Kayes
wilted visibly.
“I confided a lot in him,” he
confessed. “But, I would
emphasise again,, he was all in
favor and gave me every
encouragement.”
Hulton, his eyes blinking
behind his thick spectacles, said,
“I saw Griskin coming out of the
Premier’s office only this morn-
ing. Of course, he might have
gone there about some shipping
business ...”
Further conversation was
interrupted by the appearance of
the Chief Whip, Ranolf Jones.
“The Premier wants you all back
in the Chamber,” said Jones
curtly. “Our benches are half-
empty, and that doesn’t look too
good when the leader is
speaking.”
“How could he instruct you to
rqund us up, seeing that he’s
speaking?” Higgis inquired.
“The Opposition raised a
point of order, and he spoke to
me while the Speaker was giving
his ruling.”
“H’m.” Griffith looked hard
at Kayes as they turned to go.
“Jackson never misses a trick.
Don’t forget that, Kayes. I’d
throw in the towel if I were
you ...”
Kayes snarled, “Go to hell!
I’m seeing it through, and I’ll
win, see!”
“No, I don’t see. Well, I’ll be
with you in caucus within the
hour. I’m going to sit in the
gallery till the Premier finishes.”
Kayes glanced savagely at his
retreating back.
“Spineless ape!” he muttered
under his breath. “You’ll be the
first I get rid of! ”
A GED sixty-one, the Rt. Hon.
Herbert Spencer Jackson
considered that he was in his
prime. He had felt that when he
was ten years, twenty years,
thirty years younger. He would
continue to believe that he was
at his best —or, at any rate, far
superior to all others —till the
day of his death.
Short, grey-haired, spare but
wiry, the Premier was a born
leader of men ; so he thought.
So long as he remained captain
of the Parliamentary team, his
party would go on from success
to success. True, under his
leadership, several elections had
been lost; but that had not been
his fault; others in the team or
in the party organisation must
have failed to do their job effec-
tively. He was the one man who
never made a mistake.
He knew when to flatter, when
to bully people ; when to advance
boldly and when to retreat;
when to fly a kite and when to
go ahead without warning.
Above all —and in this there was
no question of his laboring
under a delusion —he knew how
to safeguard his own position as
leader of the party. There had
been attempts in the past to oust
him; they had all proved
abortive. There might be further
attempts to do the same thing in
the future ; he would deal with
them!
He had been speaking for
three-quarters of an hour and
had another quarter-hour to go
before the House adjourned. So
far, he had been dealing with
the Opposition’s attacks on
controls, and had delivered much
the same speech as he had done
on similar occasions for the past
four years.
“The same damned record, but
the jneedle is a bit more
scratchy,” a reporter in the press-
gallery, vainly looking for
copy, had commented crossly to
a colleague.
Jackson happened to get on
to a different theme —maybe by
accident? —just as the six mal-
cdntents, headed by Kayes, filed
into the Chamber and took their
seats beside and behind him.
“Now, Mr. Speaker,” Jackson
continued in his thin but firm
voice, “I want to answer the
Opposition’s malicious charge
that members of the Government
are at loggerheads with each
other on vital policy and other
measures. I emphatically deny
that such is the case.”
Harris, the Leader of the
Opposition, looked up sharply
from the newspaper he
had been scanning. “None of
us on these benches has said that
during this session,” he inter-
jected, “though of course, per-
sonally, I could well believe it.
The Government doesn’t know
where it’s going or what it’s
doing. Stumbling from blunder
to blunder.”
The Premier, unruffled, con-
tinued. “The Opposition, sir,
might not have expressed that
thought directly. They preferred,
in their typical Tory style, to
convey it by innuendo. Like a
crab, they scuttle sideways”
“Not like a shark, eh?”
Harsen, an Opposition M.P., had
stayed rather too long in the bar
and was in an aggressive mood.
“One characteristic of a shark,”
retorted Jackson coldly, “is that
it never drinks anything stronger
than water.”
“Then he’s not a man”
Harsen began. His benchmate
prodded him in the ribs and he
subsided.
“Nor a sponge,” the Premier
observed. “Once again, 1 deny,
with all ths vigor at my
command, that there is any
division within the ranks of the
Government. The Government
comprises men who know the
meaning of loyalty—loyalty to
their sovereign, loyalty to their
country, loyalty to the great
principles of the party which
they have the honor to repre-
sent. ...”
17'AYES glanced uneasily at
Hulton and then looked up
at the gallery. Griffith was
gazing at him, a mocking smile
on his face.
Kayes bent hastily over a
sheaf of papers, thinking rapidly
over what was to come. In
caucus, the Premier would have
a few routine announcements
to make. Immediately after-
wards, Hulton was to move that
the question of leadership be
reviewed. Higgis was to
second it.
All attempts to postpone the
issue were to be thwarted by a
demand that the question be
put to the vote forthwith. Some
discussion would then be per-
mitted, but then Beaufort would
demand that nominations be
called. Forthwith, Craven
would nominate him (Kayes) and
Higgis would second his nomina-
tion. And tomorrow, or as soon
afterwards as was convenient,
the Premier's office would have
a new tenant.
Most satisfactory. But what
was the Premier saying? Kayes
had missed quite a lot of his
speech, while engrossed in his
own thoughts, but now he
relaxed.
“....above all, loyalty. The
Opposition, Mr. Speaker, affects
to believe that the Government
insists on shackling their members
to the party machine, to force
them to obey the party’s dictates
under all circumstances. Happily,
that charge is quite unfounded.
We members of the Government
are not, as is the case with the
Opposition, tools of pressure-
groups —the exploiting class. We
decide matters according to our
own judgment; we can do that
only because we repose the
utmost confidence and trust in
each other. That has always
been the case and always
will be.”
“What’s he getting at, I
wonder?” the Leader of the
Opposition whispered to his
deputy, Wilson. “There must
be a terrific row going on some-
where. Have you heard anything
about it?”
Wilson shook his head,
equally puzzled.
“.... and in all the years I
have served my party as leader,
not once has any attack been
directed against myself.”
Higgis, who years before had
led a weak revolt in the party,
squirmed in his seat.
“There have been differences
of opinion, of course. That is
inevitable in all parties, and
personally I welcome them. It
would be a sign of stagnation,
of futility, of defeatism, if, as
in the case of the Opposition
party, unhappily, the Govern-
ment were comprised solely of
yes-men.”
“We are not particularly
interested in your washing of
dirty linen,” the Leader of the
Opposition interjected laconi-
cally.
“None is being washed, be-
cause none is dirty, on this side
of the House at any rate. I do
not propose to pursue this theme
further. I merely wished to
reply to the fantastic charge
of discord in the ranks of the
Government that the Opposition
saw fit to level at us.”
“We made no such charge,
but I make one here and now,”
snapped the -Leader of the
Opposition.
“Order! There are far too
many interjections,” said the
Speaker. “The Premier is entitled
to an uninterrupted hearing.”
“I thank you for your protec-
tion, sir. The Opposition has
been particularly garrulous
tonight,” Jackson said, peering
at his notes. “I come now to an
announcement of some import-
ance, which, strictly speaking,
comes within the province of my
esteemed colleague, the Honor-
able Minister of External Affairs,
who, however, has concurred in
my making it on his behalf.”
(Continued on next page)


m
f tpaoer
I
<73
ms?
o.™'
>■,
For your next suit • •
. . . you’ll find Crusader cloth is better. Your new suit
is going to cost you good money, so make sure you are
getting the best cloth. And Crusader is best the
result of over forty years experience in weaving fine,
woollen fabrics.
I’ve just been looking through Crusader’s new 1955-56
range, and you can take it from me, it’s the most attrac-
tive selection of modern suitings I’ve ever seen. In
fact, this range is as good as the world’s best.
You can always depend on Crusader, because the
Crusader Mills guarantee their cloth. They guarantee
that only pure Australian merino fleece wool is used
in the weaving. They guarantee that no synthetics or
substitutes of any kind are added. They guarantee that
Crusader cloth will give years
of hard wear. And they
guarantee it will never fade
or shrink.
What more do you want?
The smartest suit in town? If
you use Crusader, that is
what you’ll have. So ask
your tailor to show you the
new Crusader Pattern Book,
and you’ll see what I mean.
r.X
Special.
Seiectum.
'A'
DOUBLE
DOUBLE
(frusa&ct
SluZZnoa
(xmakv Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 6.113
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD
PHILLIPS, R. ,T. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G.
R. KNOX, ORWELL
GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
TTIJI TON stared up at him
with a puzzled frown. This
was the first he had heard of
it. He had not spoken to the
Premier since the last meeting of
Cabinet, over a week before, and
the conversation on that occasion
had had nothing to do with any
proposed announcement of any
description.
“Events in the international
field,” said the Premier solemnly,
“have moved rapidly since that
fateful day in June, 1950, when
war broke out in Korea. Our
country played its part in
endeavoring to bring about peace
in that unhappy and stricken
country. It is my daily prayer
that universal conflict may yet
be avoided. We hope and pray
for continued peace. Meantime
it is my opinion, and the opinion
of the Government, that more
could be done in the way of
attempting to prevent war, by
fostering a closer understanding
between our people and our
allies, and any potential enemies
All of us are agreed on the
menace of Communism and
there is no need for me to dwell
upon it”
“Then why don’t you get rid
of the Comms in your own
party?” called Harsen.
“Why doesn’t your party get
rid of you?” the Prime Minister
retorted. “It would be a healthier
party and one more deserving
of the people’s respect”
“Order, order-. Could I sug-
gest that the Premier continue
with his speech?” said the
Speaker.
“Thank you, sir. I endeavor,
to the limit of my ability, to
refrain from personal references,
but on occasion the provocation
hecpmes unendurable. It is
common knowledge, Mr.
Speaker, and I am not increasing
international tension by making
this observation, that the Soviet
Union has come to be regarded
as a potential aggressor. That
is an understatement of the
position. But I would say this
—that not for one moment do
I believe that the Russian people
desire war. I do not believe
that the Government of the
Soviet Union wants war”
“Let them show it, then,” said
Harsen.
The Premier ignored him.
“Unfortunately, there are
many instances of Govern-
ments embarking upon war
through fear of war —fear of
others’ aggressive intentions, real
oi fanciful. Continual suspense
and anxiety must eventually find
an outlet in positive action ; and
that outlet could take the form
of a preventive war. I believe
it is true that, paradoxically
enough, fear of war has pre-
cipitated most of the major wars
in history. I do not propose to
enlarge upon that theme at this
juncture, nor to cite classical and
modern instances in support of
my conclusion, but merely to
say that, in every possible way,
our country should play its full
part in convincing the Govern-
ment and the people of Soviet
Russia, and, through them, all
Communist Governments and
peoples throughout the world, of
our peaceful intentions, and
the peaceful intentions of all
countries with whom we work
in such close harmony.”
There was a chorus of cheers
from the Government benches,
led by Jasmin, an ex-Communist
who was still believed to be
hand-in-glove with the party
from which he had officially
resigned years before.
“To that end,” continued the
Prime Minister, as he polished
his spectacles with his silk
handkerchief, “the Government
has decided to reopen an Em-
bassy in Moscow. I consider that
the previous Government erred
seriously in closing it. That is
one of the many blunders of the
Tories which resulted in their
being flung out of office. There
can be no doubt about that, no
doubt at all.”
“A waste of time and money,”
grunted the Leader of the
Opposition. “A superannuation
scheme for rejected party-hacks.”
“Mr. Speaker, my honorable
friend believes that anything that
could prevent war is a waste of
time and money. That view is
not shared. by the Government.
The Government is opposed to
the idea that another world
bloodbath is inevitable. Now,
the Opposition, when it closed
our former Embassy, claimed
that it was not staffed by able
persons. In particular, they
claimed that our Ambassador
was not equal to his task.”
“He was useless,” said Harris.
“I deny that emphatically, sir.
But, insofar as there could have
been any substance in the charge
—and there was not —I want to
make it clear, here and now, that
our future Ambassador will be
a Minister who commands the
wholehearted respect not merely
of the Government, but of the
whole country.”
“I wonder who on earth
that could be?” said the Leader
of the Opposition innocently,
looking up at the ceiling. There
was a titter of laughter from the
Opposition benches.
“Why don’t you go yourself?”
called Harsen. “You’d get on
well with the Red gangsters.
Birds of a feather!”
“It’s as well,” said Jackson,
“that my honorable friend has
no feathers, else, if he attempted
to fly, he would soon make a
crash-landing”
“I am sorry to interrupt the
Right Honorable gentleman,”
said the Speaker, rising from his
chair, “but the time has come
for me to leave the chair. This
House stands adjourned till
10 a.m. tomorrow.” Preceded by
the Sergeant-at-Arms, bearing
the mace, the Speaker left the
Chamber.
COME of . the Opposition
members remained for a
time in the Chamber, chatting to
each other, but with the excep-
tion of Jackson all the Govern-
ment members left immediately.
Jackson bent over his desk,
carefully putting in order a small
sheaf of papers. He paid par-
ticular attention to three letters,
written on blue notepaper, all
of which bore a familiar signa-
ture.
He was putting them away in
his breast-pocket when Harris,
the Leader of the Opposition,
tapped him on his shoulder.
“Confidentially, Bert,” Harris
whispered, “who are you sack-
ing?”
Jackson looked up.
“Kayes, Tom.” Then, an
icy smile creeping over his face,
he added, “That is, if he doesn’t
manage to sack me.”
Harris laughed and gave him
a playful slap. “No show!” he
chuckled. “Come up to my office
afterwards and have a cup of
coffee, will you? I’ve got piles
of work to do and I won’t be
turning-in till after midnight,
so you needn’t worry about being
a nuisance.”
The Premier nodded and, with
a backward glance at the desk
which might soon be occupied
by another, he set off alone to
the caucus-room, where the
Government members were
already assembled.
the exception of one
” member who was away ill,
all the Government members
were present in the caucus-room.
For once, nobody had attempted
to invent excuses for absence.
They were standing round in
groups, animatedly discussing the
Premier’s announcement. There
were a score clustered round
Kayes, who was speaking to them
in low but urgent tones.
Detached from this group,
Hulton, the Minister of
External Affairs, was observing
gloomily to Greenstreet, the
young Under-Secretary to the
Ministry of Labor —he was still
in his twenties—“l don’t like the
idea at all. I wouldn’t be able
to stand the cold in Moscow,”
when the Premier entered.
Griffith stood up as Jackson
came forward to his accustomed
place and, as the Premier sank
down wearily in his chair, he
said, “Would you like me to
order you some coffee, sir?”
Jackson glanced up at him,
smiling. “No thanks, Alex.
But I might need something
stronger than that before we are
through tonight. 'Sit down. I
want to have very full notes on
this occasion. We’U need to keep
a complete and thoroughly
reliable record of this particular
caucus.”
Griffith whistled softly. So,
Jackson knew. Trust the old
fox!
“Smoke if you like, Alex.,”
Jackson continued. “But keep
the smoke away from me, if
you can. It irritates my eyes.”
Griffith put away his cigarettes,
the packet unopened.
The noise subsided after every-
body had sat down. Jackson
never relished noise and was
inclined to handle any offender
rather roughly ; and he had a
bitter and sarcastic tongue
whenever he was annoyed.
“Gentlemen,” the Premier
began, gazing frostily round the
room, “the hour is getting late
and I shall be as brief as
possible.”
“We are not in any particular
hurry to leave,” Kayes inter-
jected.
“Maybe you are not, but
others are,” Jackson retorted.
“I have not prepared an agenda
but I have here a few notes
about subjects in which you
will be interested. First, pending
legislation. There is less than a
month to go before the end of
the session, and in view of that
we do not propose to introduce
more than half-a-dozen bills.
With the exception of one, an
amendment to the Employment
Act, there will be little of a
contentious nature. The Em-
ployment Act amendment, how-
ever, is likely to arouse con-
siderable and prolonged con-
troversy, and I hope that all of
you, particularly those who will
be called upon to participate in
it, will have studied carefully
the explanatory notes which the
Minister of Labor, Mr. Kayes,
has supplied to you. It is most
important that you should have
done so.”
Most of the members looked
blankly at each other. Finally,
“Never seen them,” said one
member, who, unlike many of his
colleagues, read everything he
received. Encouraged by his
example, the remainder, except
Kayes, chimed in with similar
remarks.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD JOSEPH GOOD-
WIN of 10 Mclsaac Street Tighes Hill
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
ENID GRACE GOODWIN lias filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3251 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 7th
December 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
JAMES & GRAHAME, Solicitors, 16a
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their Agents,
MESSRS. PURVES MOODIE & STOREY,
11c Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
I
lm convinced
Capstan
i$ better tobacco"
+41D.8.56
Kayes, his face flushed, stood
up. “I’m afraid they haven’t
been circulated yet, sir. Pressure
of work . . f”
“Oh?” Jackson stared hard at
him. “It was a caucus direction,
as you know, that an explanatory
memorandum be supplied to all
members well before the intro-
duction of the bill. The legisla-
tion is of an intricate character
and requires close study. I
presume the notes have been
prepared?”
“Yes.” They had not been.
“I’m aware that members should
have them, but I’m afraid that
1 did not fully appreciate the
need for urgency.”
“With the end of the session
only a few weeks away!”
Jackson stared at him
incredulously. “However,” bend-
ing to his notes, “seeing you have
them ready, perhaps the best
thing to do under the circum-
stances is to send up to your
office for them, to read them to
caucus now, and circulate them
tomorrow. That will obviate
the need for a special meeting
later to discuss them.”
Kayes wriggled in his seat.
“I'm afraid, sir, that would take
too long”
“But you’ve just said you were
in no hurry to go!” Jackson
grunted. He paused for a
moment and then, as Kayes
declined to comment further, he
observed, “I suppose these things
cannot be helped, though it is
unfortunate. Ministers are very
busy these days, gentlemen,”
looking vacantly round the
room, “and some are more busy
than others. They find all sorts
of things to do, all sorts of
things. Some tasks are forced
upon them, and some they engage
upon of their own volition.
H’m.”
Griffith concealed a grin
behind his hand.
The Chief Whip, who was not
overburdened with brains,
echoed Jackson’s remarks. “Yes.
there’s plenty of work to be
done.” Greenstreet, who had
had experience of this double-
talk before, closed his eyes
thoughtfully. He didn’t like
Kayes, who was his chief —an
“empty windbag” ; he didn’t like
Jackson either, for that matter —
a “twister, but, God, a cunning
one!”
TACKSON proceeded abruptly.
** “I propose to make some
changes in the Ministry. Before
I announce them”
Hulton interrupted him. His
skinny hands shaking, he leapt
to his feet and cried, “I won’t be
railroaded to Moscow, Jackson!
I won’t stand for it!”
Jackson’s cold eyes lighted on
him for a moment. “Perhaps
you mighl not attempt to
anticipate my remarks.”
“You’re riding your horse
before he’s saddled,” said the
Chief Whip.
“And you’ll come a cropper,”
said Greenstreet whimsically.
The Premier rapped on the
table. “I don’t want to be here
all night. But I want you all to
know this, here and now. If you
want a new leader at any time,
that’s all right by me! The
moment you feel I have abused
your trust, at that moment Twill
gladly lay down the reins of
office. Any time! Any time, do
you hear! ”
His composure had apparently
disintegrated. His face was
scarlet, his fists were clenched,
his whole frame was shaking
with emotion. It was a sudden
and startling transformation that
had taken everybody by surprise.
Everybody froze into immobility
—everybody except Griffith, who
continued to regard Jackson
sleepily. Griffith knew his man.
“But one thing I will not
tolerate, never, .so long as I
remain my party’s leader!”
Jackson shouted. “And that is
treachery! Rotten, despicable,
accursed treachery! Any
member guilty of that, aye, even
though he be a Minister of the
Crown, deserves to be expelled
not merely from the party but
from the House. Who of us
would stoop to associate with
such a creature?”
Again Hulton got to his fdet.
“1 presume, Mr. Premier,” he
said icily, though with a quaver
in his voice, “that you define
treachery as anything that might
have the effect of replacing you
as leader of the party? If that
assumption is correct, then I
would assure you that many
might not share your view.”
Jackson pounded the table,
his eyes gleaming.
“Your assumption is not
correct, Hulton. This has nothing
to do with me. It concerns you
and others, all of whom are my
valued colleagues.”
“Oh?” Hulton looked as
though he were about to add to
his remarks, but, thinking better
of it, he relapsed into silence,
awaiting developments. Kayes
sat rigidly in his chair. Has
mouth opened when he saw the
letters, on blue notepaper, which
Jackson was extracting from his
breast-pocket. He recognised
them at once on account of the
odd color of the notepaper he
was accustomed to use. Others
also, who from time to time had
received handwritten com-
munications from Kayes, recog-
nised the authorship, and looked
inquiringly at him.
Jackson appeared as if he were
making desperate efforts to regain
normalcy. Nevertheless, it took
him a long time to unfold the
letters and lay them on the table.
Meantime, everybody had plenty
of time to look at that blue note-
paper, which one only of them
ever used.
“We have many valuable sup-
porters in our organisation,”
Jackson continued calmly.
“Men who are earnestly
interested in the welfare of our
party and who are not actuated
by personal gain. Among them
is a man who received these
letters from one of our members,
who shall be nameless. This
man was so perturbed about their
contents that, this morning, he
came to me and said he felt it
was his bounden duty to let me
have them. Without further
ado, I shall read some extracts.
I shall omit those which refer
to myself, since I am completely
indifferent as to what might be
said about me by such a man.”
“Quite,” Griffith murmured.
“Taking the first letter. And,
by the way, if the author so
desires,” gazing at nobody in
particular, “I am quite agreeable
to handing this correspondence
back to him, right now, unread.
After all, these are confidential
communications, though they
affect the whole party. Alterna-
tively, I am quite agreeable to
his reading them to you himself,
or deputing someone else to
do it. My offers are not
accepted? Very well, then. The
second paragraph reads: ‘Of
course, we’ll dump Hulton
smartly. The old chap is quite
doddery. Somebody described
him as “death warmed up’’ and
that’s about right. Apart from
that, it seems to many of us that
he has been inclined to flirt too
much with the Yanks, and that
line is not popular with our
mob.’ This,” said Jackson
savagely, “is how a member of
Parliament describes a friend and
colleague—and to a person not
even in our team! 1 wonder if
the author gave even a passing
thought to the harm that could
have been done to the Govern-
ment if this letter had.got into
the hands of the Opposition or
the press? By heavens, it makes
my stomach heave! You have
my sympathy, Hulton.”
HULTON did not reply. His
face had gone dead white
and he looked abnormally tired.
Jackson read on remorselessly.
“ 7 don’t know where Green-
street stands, but l think the
young pup will come our way
when the whips start to crack.
His wife ’ —I won’t read any more
of that sentence. In my judg-
ment, Greenstreet, you would be
quite justified in taking legal
action against the author in
respect to this particular para-
graph.”
“Oh, thanks, sir,” said Green-
street laconically. “However, not
knowing what was said, and not
knowing who the author is . . .
though I’ve got a bloody good
idea who he is, and I’ll pin his
ears back before the night’s
out! ” he exclaimed suddenly.
“No violence, if you please.
Shall I carry on? ‘Higgis is of
course certain that I’ll give him a
portfolio . If he were not so
utterly brainless I would do so,
but of course it is impossible.’
I don’t think I’ll read any more
of this nauseous stuff, gentlemen.
I propose to destroy these letters.
And now, let’s pass on to other
business.
“My announcement regarding
the setting-up of an Embassy in
Moscow may have taken some of
you by surprise. I must confess
that I have had grave doubts
about the project myself, and I
decided to go ahead with the
plan only because it seemed to
offer the only solution —the only
solution, 1 repeat —to a difficult
problem, a very, very difficult
problem.”
He allowed his words to sink
in, then continued.
“Naturally, if the project is to
receive popular support, we must
select as our representative a
member of the party who would
be certain to make a success of
his job. We can’t risk a repeti-
tion of what we had before.
Personal considerations should
not weigh with us. We must
select the best. And, gentlemen,
I have no doubts as to whom that
person should be.
“I propose, therefore, with Mr.
Hulton’s concurrence, to offer
the position to Mr. Kayes, our
very able Minister of Labor. I
am certain, gentlemen,” gazing
frostily at Kayes, “that he will
accept. I feel sure of it, even
though acceptance will entail
some personal sacrifice. The
only reservation I have is that
there might be some conflict of
temperament between him and
his new chief, Mr. Hulton, who
as Minister of External Affairs
has general control of our
diplomatic services.
“But doubtless any difficulties
can be resolved amicably. We
can deal with the problem if and
when it arises. I shall discuss the
matter further with Mr. Kayes
and Mr. Hulton in my office
tomorrow morning. The news
will appear in the press
tomorrow afternoon, and until
then I stress the need for
secrecy.”
He ceased speaking, and an
excited buzz of conversation
arose. Griffith lit a cigarette and
ostentatiously held out the packet
to Kayes, who brushed it aside
angrily. For once, Kayes was
beyond speech.
The Prime Minister rapped
on the table again.
“I have pondered over the
question of Mr. Kayes’s succes-
sor, and I have made my choice.
Mr. Greenstreet is a comparative
newcomer to our ranks and if
he is given a portfolio there will
be many senior members who
may feel aggrieved. But, gentle-
men, that cannot be helped. He
holds a key seat —a very difficult
one that we cannot afford to
lose. The welfare of our party
must come first always.
Besides, he is a man of sterling
character and outstanding
ability. Gentlemen, I hope you
concur in my choice. Clap,
damn you!” he muttered in an
aside to Griffith.
clapped mightily.
After an embarrassing pause,
others joined in, and somebody
started singing, “For he’s a jolly
good fellow.”
The tension was relieved. They
sang with a will, even Hulton
joining in, and Greenstreet’s
hand was pumped till it ached.
Greenstreet, dazed, muttered a
few words of thanks.
“Finally, gentlemen,” the
Prime Minister continued, his
face wreathed in smiles, “there
is the question of the appoint-
ment of an Under-Secretary to
take Mr. Greenstreet’s place.
This time, my choice presented
many difficulties. I was finally
obliged to put no fewer than
seven names into our National
Secretary’s hat” (Griffith blinked
hard) “and from it I drew the
name of Mr. Higgis, one who,
like Mr. Greenstreet, was so
.cruelly maligned . . .”
TACKSON and Griffith
** remained alone in the caucus-
room. Jackson, reclining in his
chair, looked utterly fagged out
and incapable of rising.
“You’d better come, Bert,”
Griffith said. “I have the car
waiting.”
“Eh? Oh, don’t bother. I
promised to have supper with
Harris. Come along too, and
you can drive me home after-
wards. . Keep that damned
cigarette away from me, will
you. And turn out that heater.
I don’t trust these messengers
to do it.”
Griffith turned to.the switch.
“O.K. I say, Bert,” as he flipped
it up, “what made you think of
putting Griskin on to Kayes’s
tail? That was a stroke of
genius, though I think you took a
terrific risk. They’ve been as
thick as thieves. Nobody else,
I’m certain, could have got
Kayes to put such dangerous
stuff on paper.”
Jackson smiled thinly.
“Always use the most unlikely
person, Alex. Simple. Griskin
wants to be knighted, Kayes
wanted to be Premier. So I set
one to catch the other.
“The depths of human per-
fidy,” he added sombrely,
“occasionally shock and astound
me.”


ROSENE TILLEY PRESSURE
Read.
\\ l /
&
/ §''
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT/NOROUTOF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY *rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Established 188 S
Contractors to Government, Mwitri|M(
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
O'SUUJVAJf
-4, mro
*lens »w?SiY
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sidney, London, New Tort
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICB EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PATTO
By G. H. FEARNSIDE
MAYBE, like they say,
gambling does get into
the blood—like the
germs of the genus
Anopheles. I look no further
than my mate, Patto, for proof
of this.
Though, mind you, when first
I met him the germ was already
there, and had eaten through his
system. Even before we went
overseas his fame had spread
beyond company- and battalion-
lines and he was known to every
sport in the brigade as “Darcy
Eccles.”
It is perhaps no small tribute
to his spectacular appearances at
the swy-, the crown-and-
anchor- and the poker-schools
(to mention a few of the games
of chance that flourished in those
days) that everybody called him
“Darce.” Only his platoon-
sergeant called him “Private
Patterson,” and he, we heard,
was a Latter Day Saint.
The A.I.F. produced other
notable gamblers, of course, but
in all the hospitals, con.-camps,
mess-huts or canteens, when the
talk turned to gambling, someone
always came up with Patto.
Our mob never produced a V.C.,
but we had him. He was at
once our mark of Cain and our
regimental pride and joy.
There was a day, at Gaza
Ridge, when we held a brigade
sports-meeting. Had we been in
Chauvel’s army we would have
done things the proper way and
thrown in a horse-race or two.
As it was, we had only donkeys.
There were several events put
on, as I recall it, to produce a
sort of comic relief to the athletic
events. I was a lance-corporal
then, and found myself repre-
senting the battalion in what was
grandiloquently termed “The
N.C.O. Stakes.”
And here I would like to make
a point: I was a starter only by
virtue of the fact that you
couldn’t go any lower than a
lance-jack martially-speaking,
of course. Had there been a
lower rank among the non-coms.,
I would have detailed him, as
detailed I had been, to provide
this feast for the gods.
It was not every day that the
mob was vouchsafed the
spectacle of seeing their non-
coms. mounted on donkeys and
racing (I use that word for what
it is worth) for the honor of the
battalion. They lined the course
in their hundreds; and this
khaki concourse drew, as was
inevitable, the interest of
everyone on the ground.
A lieutenant-general, passing
in his staff-car, ordered his
driver to pull-up ; and they came
over, worthy democrats of a
democratic Army, to see the
event being run and won. The
nursing-Sisters came, tdo —you
could see their red capes dotted
all along the khaki lines, like red
flowers along a paling-fence.
Even the Wogs left their village
to the ravages of the sheep and
poultry and came across, suppos-
ing an event of some importance
to be taking place.
It was, from beginning to end,
a humiliating experience. Never
have I heard such ribaldry in the
presence of ladies, or supposed
that the word “donkey” could be
played-upon with so many
original variations.
CJIX of us had entered, or been
entered, for this divertisse-
ment of the Roman holiday. We
sat bareback upon our mounts,
and had communication with
them only by a pair of reins.
There was no saddle, then ; no
stirrups, no halter, no whip—
prerequisites, 1 understand, of
one about to ride in such a race
as this. The progress of the
donkey, as we could see it, was
governed by the grinning Arab
boys who stood each behind his
donkey and had in his hands
the accepted means of propulsion
of a donkey—a long stick.
Such matters as the birdcage
and preliminary gallops being
done away with, we mounted
right on the starting-line, to the
accompaniment of thunderous
cheering. Looking down those
inhospitable flanks I had a notion
how soul-searing it would be to
be drummed out of the regiment.
It was at this point that Patto
came up to me. I thought he
was going to wish me luck, but
instead he had the air about him
of a trainer about to brief his
top stable-boy.
“You’ve got to kick this one
home,” he said, “or I spend the
next twenty-eight days in
Jerusalem boob.”
“What’s this?” I demanded.
“I’ve got a motzer on you,”
he said.
“A motzer? What the hell’s
a motzer?”
“A poultice,” he explained. “I
took five-to-lwo about you.
Fifty-thousand mils to twenty-
thou. And even in this weird
currency, that’s not a bad bet.”
“Hell and Moses,” I shouted,
“have you been betting on the
outcome of this merry-go-
round?”
The very sound of these
astronomical figures nearly
caused me to fall off my donkey.
It was handicap enough to unseat
a jockey with nerves of steel.
Patto shrugged.
“We go on leave on Thursday.
If your number goes in the
frame we’ll thrash around Tel
Aviv like nabobs.”
“But, Patto,” I protested, “you
can’t ride these animals —the
Wog kids belt ’em along! ”
“Joseph rode one all the way
to Egypt,” Patto said non-
chalantly. “You’ve only got
seventy-five yards to go.”
He patted my mount reassur-
ingly, but this only occasioned it
to pigroot in a most disconcerting
manner. Indeed, I was only pre-
vented from being unseated by
hanging on to its ridiculous ears.
The Arab boy, for his part,
missed death by inches.
“He’s above himself,” Patto
said ; “he’ll spreadeagle ’em! ”
And he sauntered away, as if
the result were a foregone
conclusion.
VX7HEN the gun went off my
donkey walked serenely
down the centre of the track,
indifferent to the epithets that
were showered upon the head of
its rider.
So leisurely was the pace,
indeed, that 1 had ample oppor-
tunity to observe the relative
positions of the others and to
note the different techniques of
the Arab boys. My wallad was
marching behind his donkey,
striking it gently across the rump
with the rhythm of a drummer
tapping his instrument every
time the left foot came to the
ground. His companions were
belaboring their steeds in a
manner that one thought might
inspire haste, but that had the
effect, as it happened, of driving
them into the crowd, and scatter-
ing it like red-and-khaki quick-
silver. This earned these
runners instant disqualification,
according to the rules of the
Gaza Jockey Club.
At the fifty-yard mark I alone
was left of a field of six. I
stalked forward on my donkey,
the cynosure of all, including the
lieutenant-general, and to the
deafening roar of the whole
brigade. The Arab boy trooped
along behind, tapping my mount
across the backside, as solemn
as a page at a cathedral wedding.
I reflected how ludicrous the
scene must appear.
Five years later, when the war
ended, I had struggled to the
rank of corporal. That was the
pay-off for the via dolorosa I
trod that day.
Just near the finish, or “inside
the distance” as he later termed
it, I descried my mate Patto
witnessing this agonising stroll
to the tape. He appeared to be
the only spectator not cheering,
and I suppose he had more
occasion to evince joy than any.
His face was dead-pan. He was
merely waiting for the farce to
end.
He did, however, allow himself
the luxury of humor. As 1 drew
abreast of him, he shouted:
“Put away the persuader,
Smithy—hands and heels will do
for now!”
When it was all over he gave
the Arab boy two Palestinian
pounds, which caused that
juvenile to leap upon his donkey
and charge off at a gait of which
I had not supposed the animal
capable.
There was talk—probably
inspired by a bookmaker who
took his losses hard —of Patto
having rigged the race, of having
bribed five Arab boys to belt
their donkeys off the course and
make it a walkover for the sixth,
the one that carried his money.
I preferred to think, however,
that with Patto it was purely a
gamble. Certainly he never said
anything about it, and I never
asked him. He gambled for the
thrill of gambling, and always
seemed indifferent to his gains
and losses. That is not the breed
who nobble horses or rig races.
A/fY second most vivid war-
time recollection of his
predilection for gambling on
anything and under any condi-
tions was at Alamein.
When we were cowering in
our shallow slit-trenches under
an artillery-barrage I heard Patto
and a subaltern wagering con-
siderable sums of money on
where the next enemy shell might
fall.
The subaltern, whom every-
body but the colonel knew to be
heavily in Patto’s debt, was
killed just on a week later, but I
noticed that Patto never com-
plained about his rotten luck in
not getting paid before the
officer was killed.
Some of the others would have
written to his next-of-kin and
demanded a settlement.
T MET-UP with him at the last
reunion and learned, on his
own admission, that he was still
battling. He said he had been
five-thousand pounds in front
when Euphrates won the
Queen’s Cup, but had suffered the
indignity of having to go back
to work when the result of the
Doncaster became known.
“I’m waiting for something
now,” he said. “When the day
arrives I’ll let you know.”
The sky is the limit when
you have been drinking beer all
evening.
“Do that! ” I said.
The day wasn’t long in arriving.
On the Friday night the phone
rang and a voice said:
“That you, Smithy? This is
Patto.”
There ensued the usual polite
formalities, and then he intruded
the punch-line.
“How"re you holding?” he
asked.
I made a quick assessment of
my assets and liabilities and
wondered whether or not I could
stand a touch from one who had,
upon a time, been a blood-
brother. From his insecure rung
of the ladder no doubt Patto
could see me as a man of sub-
stance. He had learned at the
reunion that I had every bit of
thirty-and-two-third years to
pay-off my home ; the furniture
pertaining thereto was being
financed on the friendliest of
friendly terms; I had a steady
job and a few pounds in the
bank. Even the child-
endowment, according to Patto,
was adding to the income.
“How much do you want?”
1 asked him brutally.
“How much do you want to
win?” he countered.
J changed my tone slightly.
“Are you suggesting I put my
hard-earned money on a race-
horse? ”
“I’m doing you a favor,” he
said laconically. “I told you I’d
ring you when it was due to go
off.”
“And the due date has
arrived?”
“Tomorrow.”
“1 see. Well, I’ll probably
have a caser each way. Or isn’t
it an each-way proposition?”
1 heard his contemptuous
chuckle.
“You got a car?” he asked.
“No,” I said.
“This time tomorrow night
you’ll be in a position to buy
one, if you do as I say. New
or secondhand depends on
yourself.”
There was no might or perhaps
about it. He was coldly stating
fact. If I did experience a flurry
of excitement I like to think 1
showed no trace of it.
“Well, Patto, I’m listening.”
“Can you bring a pony or
two?”
“A pony? What nonsense is
this?”
He was obliged to put the
matter a different way.
“Can you put fifty-quid in a
heap?”
“Fifty-quid! Are you trying
to talk me into buying a race-
horse?”
“Bring the fifty-quid,” he per-
sisted, “and you’ll have your
car.”
AND on that provocative note
he left me. I was to meet
him at a predetermined place in
((Continued on page 34)
OF RAVEL
The rich carmine glory of sound —the black-purple, the
violet-crimson :
Footsteps soft as padded feet of \bater-birds, sheldrake
and geese and gulls,
Tread out the treble sands, and ocean roars
Deep as engaging bulls within the throat or great black
bears :
The thunder masses and the eagles scream —
How many souls inhibited by wits
Shall bear the fury of creation’s hymn ?
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


Papua and New Guinea
They Challenge
Australia
By PAUL HASLUCK
Hielander, New Guinea fashion ’im fella bilong.
This challenging, and also very informative, article by the
Minister for Territories gives the substance of his Roy Milne
Memorial Lecture under Australian Institute of International
Affairs auspices delivered in Winthrop Hall, University of
Western Australia.
THIS is an Australian task.
The Territory of Papua is
an Australian possession
and the Territory of New
Guinea is administered by Aus-
tralia under a Trusteeship agree-
ment with the United Nations.
In keeping with the terms of
that agreement, they are joined
in an administrative union under
the name of the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea, and the
laws of Australia are applicable
to the union.
In both World Wars Australian
forces fought against the enemies
of Australia in this Territory,
and the relationship of the
Territory to the Australian
Commonwealth is regarded as
a vital element in the security
of Australia and the whole of
the South-west Pacific.
The Territory is closer to us
geographically than many realise.
The outlying islands of Queens-
land are within sight of the
Papuan coast. The distance from
Canberra to Port Moresby
(1979 miles by air) is comparable
with the distance from Canberra
to Perth (2045 miles by air). By
sea, Port Moresby is closer to
Sydney than is either Perth or
Darwin.
The overall objective of Aus-
tralia’s task up there might be
described in various ways: that
we are trying to bring civilisation
to Papua and New Guinea ; that
we are working for the advance-
ment of its inhabitants to self-
government and independence.
But there is something more
important to it than making blue-
prints of the sort of society we
intend to build or the sort of
institutions we intend to create
for the people. What is more
valuable than laying down
courses of action for situations
which are not yet known is to
take some care over the prin-
ciples that govern our conduct.
The working-out of those
principles in our administrative
actions, however, might not be as
simple a matter as it may seem.
It may, in fact, be most complex.
In our own society, for
instance, ideas of justice have
become intertwined with the laws
of the land and their interpreta-
tion by courts of law. Briefly,
they mean that without fear,
favor or privilege each person
is assured that his rights will be
protected, that any wrongs
against him will be redressed,
and that any wrong he commits
against others will be corrected.
Applying this idea of justice
in the government of a dependent
people living in a primitive
society can, however, have its
difficulties. To act justly towards
them may mean that the laws are
made and interpreted with some
elasticity of mind and not with
rigid legalism.
Let us take the difficult case of
what is to us the ultimate crime
—murder. Among a primitive
people justice does not give one
answer but several different
answers to the questions whether
killing is a crime and how it
should be punished.
In an uncontrolled, or only
recently controlled, area, where
a savage people engage in fight-
ing almost as freely as we engage
in football, a report of killing
may be brought in by the
wounded fugitive from an attack.
The patrol-officers go out. With
courage and great patience they
eventually get into touch with
both the attacked and the
attackers, and administer justice.
What is justice in such a case?
The savages themselves would
have found justice in revenge
and in further killings. The
patrol-officer finds it in a discus-
sion, and the arrangement of
compensation to the satisfaction
of the relatives of the victims,
and uses the opportunity to
give what lessons he can in the
interests of establishing law and
order in an untamed region. No
crime has been charged, but one
step forward has been taken
towards civilisation.
Take the case now of a part
of the Territory where the people
have been told about the white
man’s ideas regarding murder,
but where they are still under
the compulsion of their own
customs fand practices. A man
kills his wife by hitting her
several times over the head with
his stone axe because she has
been sulky about her household
duties or more likely because she
has said or done something in
public which is disparaging to
his dignity.
That man is formally charged
with murder. He is brought to
trial before the Supreme Court
and found guilty. Justice allows
a penalty ; the establishment of
law and order requires a penalty ;
but, though the law says the
penalty is death and a death-
sentence is recorded, in practice
there will be a commutation to
a term of imprisonment of
perhaps five years. Justice would
not be served by the hanging
or the passing of a heavy
sentence on a man whose own
society has not regarded his
offence as a grave offence.
In yet another case murder
may be committed wilfully by
a person fully familiar with the
law and free from any tribal
compulsion, and then justice
requires much the same processes
and penalties as would be
appropriate to an Australian
murderer in a similar case.
Thus, you see from this crude
illustration that a principle such
o Continued on page 27)
Some of the 10,000 who assembled on Maprik airstrip in Singsing costumes to be impressed (maybe) by League of Nations Mission visitors' addresses.


ft
n
i
m
TOOTH A CO LIMIISp
*;• v;i>u>-TR»uA: ••
KB. 159. 18
Times
have
changed-
so has
T his new label distinguishes
NEW K.B.
K.B. has always been good—but now
with this new brew it is even better.
Buy it ... try it .. . you'll like it.
.
Brewed and bottled by
OOTH 6l CO. LIMITED
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
''National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —*
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aast.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Randwick’s big crowd
upwards of 62,000 —on the open-
ing day (last Saturday), in
brilliant spring weather, saw
keen competition and fast-run
races. A new Australian record,
2. If for a mile-and-a-quarter,
was run by Empire Link in the
Squatters’ Handicap. He clipped
a fraction of a second fi;om
Beau Vite’s 2. If, made in the
Craven Plate at Randwick in
.1941. Beau Vite’s name now
disappears from the Australian
time-records. Empire Link may
be set for the Caulfield Cup
(October 20), in which he has
8.8. He could be an ideal type
for that mile-and-a-half, which
suits a horse capable of taking
up a good position from the
start.
New Zealand-bred horses
won the Derby, Epsom and
Colin Stephen Stakes on the
opening day. Six-year-old Red-
craze, in the last-named race,
went very easily ahead of Syntax
(also N.Z.). Redcraze had easily
defeated opponents in the Hill
Stakes at Rosehill at his prior
outing, and was a warm favorite.
The Colin Stephen Stakes was
his 17th win. The gelding didn’t
race at two-years, which prob-
ably has contributed to his fine
record. Ambition of owner,
Mrs. A. B. Bradley, is to win
the Melbourne Cup, in which
Redcraze has 9.7. He won the
Brisbane Cup with 9st. The
six-year-old Red Mars gelding
is no oil-painting in looks, but
there’s no doubt about him
being good.
First two-year-old race of
the Sydney season, the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, proved a soft
snap for Flying Kurana, who
fairly breezed into first place.
The colt is by Newtown Wonder
(imp.), sire of speedy youngsters,
and is from Sweet Speech by
Constant Son (imp.) from Sweet
Oration by Demosthenes
(imp.). Flying Kurana had won
barrier-trials at Randwick and
Rosebery, equalling the best
time at the latter course. He
raced like a seasoned cam-
paigner.
When Phar Lap won the
A.J.C. Derby in 1929, with Jim
Pike taking things easily, he ran
the mile-and-a-half in 2.3 If,
only a fraction better than Monte
Carlo’s 2.31 3-10 in winning the
latest blue riband from Bern-
field and Harnham Hill. Rand-
wick times now are recorded,to
tenths of a second. Monte Carlo
is closely related to Phar Lap ;
the colt’s third dam, Entreaty,
was dam of that famous
galloper. Monte Carlo was bred
by his owner, Ken Austin, of
Inglewood stud, Kaiapoi (N.Z.),
yvho sent the colt to Randwick
trainer Frank Dalton when he
didn’t reach the reserve placed
on him at the January sales in
the Dominion last year. The
classic winner is by Lucky Bag
(imp.) from Bobalong by Lord
Bobs (imp.) from Raphis by
Night Raid (imp.) from Entreaty
by Winkie (imp.). First-money
for the Derby was £8156.
There was a reason for Gay
Lover’s poor showing in the
Derby: the colt was badly
stripped on the near hindleg,
necessitating half - a - dozen
stitches and his withdrawal
from all spring engagements.
Teranyan, one of Sydney’s
most consistent gallopers, has
been unlucky in “big” handicaps
during the past few months, both
in Brisbane and in the latest
Epsom, in which Knave nosed
him out of first-money. Gentle
Lu came from the rear of the
field for the minor placing.
Knave improved sharply on his
prior display. The form-change
was not unexpected, as the four-
year-old was backed on the
course from 16 to 1 to 10’s.
However, Sell wood had- to use
all his vigor to oust Cook on
the pacemaker, who deserved
a better fate after leading almost
from the start. Cook rode a
masterly race in front of the
field. Time for the Epsom,
1.35 1-10, was the second-fastest
in the history of the race. Silver
Phantom’s 1.34* in 1953 is the
race- and Australian-record for
one mile. Surprise of last Satur-
day’s contest was the poor
showing of the 2-to-l favorite
French Charm.
Melbourne trainer of Arab’s
Choice, Charlie Wilson, con-
siders the Nilo (imp.) colt as
sure to be tough for any opposi-
tion in the Victoria Derby, to
be run next month. Arab’s
Choice has won at three of his
last four starts. In his latest
success he cleared out from the
opposition in the £2700 Moonee
Valley Stakes (one mile) for
three-year-olds. Arab’s Choice
will need to be much superior to
the Melbourne colts that con-
tested the A.J.C. Derby if he is
to beat Monte Carlo. Arab’s
Choice showed exceptional speed
at the Valley, but on his breed-
ing he should stay the Derby
distance. His dam, Cavilla, was
got by Portofino (imp.) from
Caviline by Son o’ Mine (imp.)
from Cavil (imp.) by Golden
Myth. The colt was bred by
Lionel Israel at Segenhoe
(N.S.W.).
Named after the poet, the
Gordon Steeple at the Valley was
something right after ,Adam
Lindsay G.’s own heart.
The going was very slippery with
the rain ; eight of the 13 starters
either fell or lost their riders ;
and the all-the-way winner, by
an official “half a furlong,” was
the six-year-old chestnut mare
Summer Flower, who’d been
winning over around Mt.
Gambier way* and who, on
Saturday, had a bloke named
Lindsay in the saddle. Come to
think of it, though, flowers
weren’t exactly the poet’s long
suit.
In former years the weight-
for-age Randwick Plate (two
miles) was the feature event of
the final A.J.C. spring day
(Saturday), but small fields of
mostly slow stayers, and
dawdling tactics by jockeys,
making it a sprint over the final
three of the 16 furlongs, caused a
revision of plans, and the race
hasn’t been staged since 1953,
when it was run at 14 furlongs,
and won by Hydrogen. Under
the revised programme for this
year’s fixture the £3OOO Craven
Plate (If mile) will be the main
attraction for this coming
weekend.
Tranquilette, surprise winner
of a Canterbury Park midweek
maiden Three-year-old (fillies),
is being raced in partnership by
Mrs. C. B. Hasler and the filly’s
breeder, A. H. Wright, of East
Dunlop stud, Merriwa (N.S.W.).
Mrs. Hasler’s husband, Baden,
trains the filly at Randwick.
Tranquilette is a sister, to Tran-
quil Lass; by Howe, and from
Tranquil Queen by Sir Caledore
(imp.) from Exaggeration (imp.)
by Politian.
Interest had one of the easiest
wins seen at Canterbury Park
when he cleared out wit,h the
First Maiden Three-year-old for
colts and geldings. Interest is a
brother to top-class Sydney
sprinter Compound, and is by
Stockade (imp.) from Silvermere
by El Cacique (imp.). He could
soon win again.
Lachie Melville has completed
25 years’ continuous broadcast-
ing of horseracing, and it is
generally agreed that he has no
superior at this job. Melville
doesn’t get excited no matter
how close a finish. Recalling
early-day difficulties in broad-
casting of races from wooden
stands erected in suburban back-
yards, before the service was
permitted inside the tracks, Mel-
ville mentioned a brainwave by
one of his assistants which cut
out the noisy background of
crowing roosters and cackling
hens regularly heard over the
air by Turf enthusiasts. The
assistant just took along a
pocketful of wheat and threw
some to the chooks when a race
was about to start.
Figures released by the Blood-
stock Breeders’ Association show
that Delville Wood (imp.) was
once again leading sire from
the money angle for the season
ended July 31 last. His progeny
(26 winners of 58 races) aggre-
gated £59,493 in stakes. Mast-
head (imp.) finished second (24
winners of 68 races and £42,295),
while Star Kingdom (imp.) was
third (20 winners of 40 races
and £41,960).
♦ * *
This coming Friday is the
opening night of Sydney trot-
ting’s Spring Carnival at the
Harold Park Raceway. The first
batch of Spring Handicap heats
are to be decided, along with
Flying Mile (for horses compet-
ing in the Spring Cup) and
Trotters’ Free-for-All. Fields are
good—possibly better than in
any previous carnival ; and the
pleasing feature is the spate of
young and improving horses,
needing only that ounce of polish
to become topline. The Spring
Cup this year is quite open, with
first mortgages, if any, to this
year’s Inter-Dominion runner-
up, Mineral Spring. Biggest
headaches should come from
Andi (in better trim than ever),
Westralian Marine Dealer and
Sydney’s promising pair Brilliant
Moon and Secret Spring.
Strongest factor in this carni-
val’s favor is the interest aroused
by the Spring Handicap, with the
heats so crammed with horses
shaping like top performers of
the future that it is almost impos-
sible to think in terms of a
winner of the final. Kildare’s
Star, Pay All, Highland Jan,
Malniri, Miniature Bill, Runny-
doone are a few that are just in
—but in it up to their necks.
Close enough to them on the
handicaps are Anytime, three-
year-old find of last season, and
1955 Derby winner First Variety,
starting at last to shape like his
old self. Then, to tickle them up
are Set Point (Inter-Dominion
Blanche’s Best,
toey mare Sibelia and bush-
champion King Ranji. And if
King Ranji decides to knuckle
down to the job, one or two of
the flashier might find themselves
straggling in his wake.
+ +
Australian Open golf
champion Bruce Crampton cele-
brated his 21st birthday by tak-
ing the purse in the £2OOO Speedo
Golf Tournament. With a
record-breaking last round of 65
(eight under par) he tallied his
lowest four-round total so far,
278. Runner-up was treble
British Open champion Peter
Thomson, four strokes behind on
282.
Veteran amateur golfer Harry
Hattersley won the Cromer Bowl
at Cromer Country Club with a
record 73. Hattersley broke
the previous record held by
Barry Warren by one stroke on
the par-70 course. The Cromer
Cup handicap went to Stan
Ottenwill (14), with a net 64.
* * *
Williamstown, which had been
narrowly beaten by Port Mel-
bourne in the second semi-final,
reversed the decision in the
V.F.A. grand-final to down
Port, 14.18-10.18. ’Town thus
becomes V.F.A. premier for the
third year running. (Port has
been in each of the last seven
“grands,” but has won only one
of them, in 1953.)
♦ * *
“K.R.”: After a week of trials
the Australian cycling-team for
the Olympics has been picked.
One particular surprise, the
naming as emergency only of
Lionel Cox, winner, with
Mockridge, of the tandem title,
and second in the 1000-metres
sprint, at the 1952 Olympics.
Young Victorian Dick Ploog
gets the berth in the sprint, and
N.S.W. youngster Warren Scarl'e
reps in the time-trial. The road-
team consists of three Victorians,
Jack Trickey, who won the Aus-
tralian amateur road-cycling
title recently, Jim Nevin, winner
of the title in previous years,
and John O’Sullivan, and, as
captain, veteran S.A. rider Jim
Nestor, a 1952 Olympian, who,
on a bike, has the wisdom and
resource of his Olympian name-
sake of the Trojan war.
* * *
“Cunedda”: The Olympic
Games Organising Committee
has invited 228 former Aus-
tralian Olympic Games com-
petitors to the Games in Mel-
bourne. The committee will give
them tickets to the opening
ceremony and many other events.
Among those who have accepted
is Australia’s oldest Olympic
Games contestant, Fred Lane,
of Mona Vale (Sydney). Lane
swam in the Games in Paris in
1900, and hasn’t seen an
Olympic Games since!
# * *
“Veryl”: Finnish long-distance
runners, once the top-liners in
the sport—top of ’em all, of
course, Paavo Nurmi —have been
literally right out of the running
in recent years. (Besides Nurmi
there were Kolehmainen, 1920
Olympic - marathon winner,
Stenroos, winner of 1924
Olympic marathon, when 40,
Ritola, Lehtinen and others.)
But there’s one Finn now re-
establishing the old reputation —
Antti Viskari, who last April in
Boston (U.S.A.) set the world
marathon-record of 2hr. 14min.
14sec. and, a week or so back in
Finland, a new world 15-miles
record (lhr. 15min. 46sec.).
* * *
“R.W.”: “Selja” (B. 19/9/’56)
is short of the mark in claiming
that Easts (Sydney) Rugby
Union forward Jack Baxter
merely played for N.S.W. Baxter
twice toured New Zealand, in
the 1949 and 1952 Australian
teams, and played for Australia
against N.Z. in Tests. He also
played for Australia at home
against the 1951 All Blacks. He
might also have repped against
South Africa and Fiji, but that,
after recovering from the
Tarakan disaster, he swapped
Navy for Regular Army, and as
a soldier was unable to obtain
leave for the 1953 tour of South
Africa, and so wasn't considered
for the Tests against the first
Fijian team in 1952, which were
used as a basis for the selection
of the S.A. team.


?s justice has to be applied
intelligently and with due regard
to changing circumstances. The
principle of justice is only served
if the effects of its application
are not unjust in the common
meaning of the word.
The administration of primi-
tive and dependent peoples per-
petually demands acute and
accurate observation of condi-
tions, and an active intelligence
as well as high motives.
Now* do not imagine that
these interpretations of what is
just are an attempt to accom-
modate ourselves to a native
code of laws or a native concep-
tion of justice different from our
own. The search for what is just
in essence rather than in law is
our doing. The inclination of
primitive man himself would be
somewhat harsher. Indeed, I
can illustrate another complica-
tion in the administration of
dependent peoples by telling you
of one of the most unusual
deputations ever to wait on me
as a Minister.
It was at Goilala, a remote
station in the mountain spine
of Papua. We had flown in up
narrow valleys under a dense
cover of shifting clouds, and
had landed on an upward-sloping
strip bordered by the half-dozen
or so buildings of a patrol-post.
It happened there had been a
murder or two a week or so
earlier, and about 30 or 40 wild-
looking, naked little men, with
limbs made sinewy from
scampering up the steep
mountain-paths, were standing
in a row a little apart from the
other people. They were the
alleged murderers.
When all the inspections were
over, the A.D.O. asked me if
I would receive a deputation
from local residents. I asked
where the deputation was. He
indicated some hundreds of men
and women clustered on
and around the district-office
veranda.
One magnificent fellow stood
forward. He was a natural
orator and seemed to be invok-
ing the ancestral hills, the skies
and all the deepest feelings of
humanity as he spoke for his
people 'at great length and with
great fervor.
When he had finished, the
A.D.O. translated. He said in
substance that the orator had
referred to the recent murders
and then said that he knew quite
well that the Government was
a feeble and lily-livered set of
people who had some funny
ideas about death which he him-
self could neither understand nor
share. It was about time the
Government woke-up and started
doing some hanging. Let it start
straight away by hanging some
of these fellows lined-up on the
air-strip. *
At my request the A.D.O.
explained our idea that judges
dealt with wrongdoers and that
the Government did not tell
judges what to do. Nor was the
purpose of the judges only to
take revenge.
There was further oratory. It
was to the effect that they knew
the judge. He had visited them
on several similar occasions. He
was a nice old gentleman, but
he was just as unwilling to hang
them as the Government was.
I then asked, through the
A.D.0., whether they only
wanted their enemies to be
hanged or whether they realised
that if they killed anyone their
people would have to suffer the
same penalty.
The burst of oratory in reply
was almost triumphant. Being
translated, it meant, “Yes, hang
us too!”
Well, alongside the principle
of justice we place the principle
of freedom. That means, among
other freedoms, the freedom of
choice. Yet freedom of choice
for the people of Goilala at the
time of my visit would have
meant a return to the way of
the jungle, the delaying of the
establishment of law and order,
the discarding of any notion of
justice and the arresting of
the advance towards civilisation.
So, apparently, the principle of
freedom, too, has to be modified
in practice, and we have to
choose, in the name of freedom,
an action that will eventually
lead to wider and fuller freedom
for the people rather than an
action which, in the present
moment, would be preferred if
they had freedom of choice.
Freedom, of course, means
more than freedom of choice.
It means that a man is free
to come and go, that he
does not live under the compul-
sion of fear or the compulsion
of want.
Such freedoms are not
enjoyed by primitive man. He
is not free to come and go, for
the simple reason that he has
to consider the risk of being
killed if he strays among
strangers. The path to that kind
of freedom is the establishment
of law and order.
He is not free from fear, for
the life of primitive man is
governed to a great degree by
fear—fear of the dead, fear of
the sorcerer, fear of his enemies.
He is not free from want, for
his gardens may fail or a land-
slide carry away a crop just
as it is ready for eating.
The first steps to freedom
from fear and want are not the
passing of laws or the making
of declarations. They are the
practical steps of maintaining
peace among men born to
violence, of cancelling the dread
power of the sorcerer, of opening
the mind of the savage, of im-
proving agriculture and the
food-supply. You cannot give
primitive man wings to fly up
to freedom like a bird. You
show him how to win hi& way
there by the laborious march
upwards, and you aid and en-
courage him at each step.
Freedom is also expressed in
the conception of the liberty of
the subject. As an illustration
of the application of this prin-
ciple, let us take the engage-
ment of labor.
The present Australian
Government abolished in-
dentured labor, which had pre-
vailed under previous Govern-
ments in the Territory, and
replaced it by labor under
contract.
This means that the worker is
not bound except to the extent
be has personally committed
himself by a voluntary contract
with an employer. If such a
system is to work, it is essential
that contracts be honored and
that rights under them be main-
tained by lawful process. The
workman, too, has to learn that,
while he cannot be compelled to
do more than he has contracted
to do, he has an obligation not
to do less.
The problem and in this
particular example it is a real
difficulty to which we have given
a good deal of attention —is that
the subject has to learn that the
liberty which he enjoys is only
maintained , by the honoring of
the obligations both he and his
employer have accepted. That
is sometimes a slow and difficult
lesson for a man who, until
recently, lived without liberties
except those which he or his
mates could guarantee with their
own arrows or axes, and it
becomes an even more difficult
lesson if he falls into the hands
of teachers who stress his right
to do as he damn’ well pleases,
rather than stressing the obliga-
tion that both he and his
employer have incurred towards
one another.
Freedom and liberty are the
attributes of civilised man. A
man does not become civilised
by being told he is free. Freedom
and liberty make a slippery path
unless, as the primitive man
advances step by step towards
them, he is also advancing step
by step towards civilisation.
Thus, in serving our principles,
we not only have to make intel-
ligent adjustments to meet pre-
vailing conditions ; we also have
to exercise an intelligent control
over the pace of change so that
each new right falls into hands
which will use it and not
destroy it.
A third principle to guide us
in government might be
described as the representative
principle. It arises from the idea
that a people should be able to
choose those who will serve
them in government and that
(i Continued on page 31)
Sisal out to d v y at Bubia Agricultural Station, near Lae.
A natives' co-operative runs this rice-hulling plant at
Amele village, near Madang.
Anti-t.b. injection for a seven-year-old at Buin
Sub-district Hospital.
Malarial Control School at Ming, with students
learning about mossie wogs from Suva-trained
instructor Jophiel.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
1
gfevfo
mm
mm
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
RIVERDELL FLATS
Old Burleigh Road,
BROAD BEACH,
Surfer’s Paradise, Q’land.
NEW ULTRA MODERN FUR-
NISHED FLATS TO LET, for
long or short periods. Every
Comfort, including Refrigeration,
Hot and Cold Water, Wall-to-
Wall Carpets and Inner-spring
Mattresses throughout. Close to
Surf (patrolled beach). Near
Lennon’s New Hotel. For ideal
holiday accommodation, write
now to Resident Proprietors.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S AIRCRAFT
PRESS -CO MM ENT on
Britain’s annual air-show
at Farnborough was concerned
mainly, on the civil side,
with how the British Comet
and turbo-prop airliners will
fare in competition with the
new American jets. With service
aeroplanes, of course, the main
interest centred on the relative
roles of guided-missiles and
manned-aircraft.
Typical comment:
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“ ‘We are not yet ready’ seems
to be the modest cry of British
technicians. They raise it at
successive Farnborough Air
Shows, and this year is no excep-
tion. Yet the shows are, hi
themselves, impressive. Export-
figures, too, are encouraging. In
the first seven months of 1956,
we exported £46.6-million worth
of aeroplanes, as compared with
£22.8-million in 1955. The
export-figures of aero-engines,
over the same period, have risen
from £12.2-mi!lion to fib-
million, largely due to the success
of Bristol, De Havilland and
Rolls Royce. During the year
which has passed since the last
Farnborough show, aircraft-
companies have been moving
away from their dependence on
Government finance. There is
nothing here for tears.”
* * *
Peter Masefield, in “Man-
chester Guardian ” : “The turbo-
prop aeroplane remains the low-
cost answer to an airline’s opera-
tional needs over both short and
long distances. But alongside
the turbo-prop the jet-aeroplane
will now clearly emerge—needing
longer runways, creating an air-
port noise-problem, costing more
to operate than the turbo-prop,
but offering the one great
attraction of higher cruising-
speeds.
“The problem remains whether
the high-load factors which the
jet will attract, by virtue of its
speed, will outweigh the
advantages, on all other major
counts, of the more economic
turbo-prop. With Viscounts,
Vanguards, and Britannias —all
turbo-props in the lists, the
answer is of critical importance.
“One significant fact is that the
avalanche of United States jet
orders could not have come
from any other country in the
world. In spite of protestations
to the contrary, the safe and
reasonably economic operation
of jet aircraft will require longer
and stronger runways at most of
the world’s airports.
“The cost of these runway
extensions has variously been
estimated at between £6O-million
and £ 130-million —a considerable
overhead on the jet’s operational
costs. Only the United States
could have succeeded in imposing
such an undertaking on airport-
authorities wherever American
air-carriers plan to operate.”
* * *
“M anchester Guardian”
editorial comment: “Certainly
we [Britain] cannot compete in
scale with either the United
States or Russia: but we can
set out to be pre-eminent in the
manufacture of certain types of
aircraft. Up to a point we have
achieved this. The turbo-prop
Viscount has set a new standard
of flying on medium-distance
passenger-routes, and the Van-
guard and Britannia are notable
developments of the turbo-prop
machine. They have no equals
anywhere. But will the world
continue to want turbo-props
when jet-airliners are available?”
* * *
London “Financial Times”
editorial comment: “For a time
between the introduction of the
Britannia —probably late next
year—and of the new American
jets on that run 8.0.A.C. may
regain part or all of its lost
share [of the U.K.-U.S.-Canada
traffic]. Yet there is little hope of
holding the North Atlantic first-
class market with the Britannia
and the Comet IV alone against
the American jets. The Britannia
with its excellent economy of
operation will be an ideal air-
craft for cheaper-rate flights, but
the first-class traffic is likely to
depend on the superior speed of
the jets.”
* * *
Sir Frederick Handley Page,
in London “Financial Times” :
“What nonsense it is to put
restrictions on aircraft in their
use of the world’s air. Aero-
planes should be able to fly over
all lands and all seas at all times.
Restrictions run counter to the
ideal development of our civili-
sation. We have people in their
separate little national pockets
laying claim to the air above
their heads. Their nationalistic
outlook and antagonism among
themselves increase as the differ-
ences of race, color and religion
are misguidedly stressed.
“Thus, in an aeroplane age,
our lives are constricted by a
horse-bus philosophy. Even
civil air-operations are con-
ducted only on a basis of multi-
lateral agreements among
nations. Air, the most free of all
elements, is the medium through
which there is no free passage.”
* * *
Sir Roy Fedden (past presi-
dent of the Royal Aeronautical
Society ), in London “Financial
Times” : “The ultimate potential
of the British aircraft industry at
the utmost will not exceed a
quarter of that of the U.S.A. or
U.S.S.R. Our problem is, there-
fore, to employ this limited effort
with the greatest efficiency in
conjunction with sufficient
research-resources, and to
achieve it we must train approxi-
mately the same number of
engineers per capita as America
and Russia.
“At present we are far short
in this respect, which brings
home the first need we have to
meet, still putting quality above
mere numbers.”
* * *
Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Ralph
Cochrane, in London “Financial
Times” : “There would seem no
present reason to suggest any
change in the stated [defence]
policies of the British and United
States Governments that security
can be most appropriately based
on a policy of deterrence. The
present instrument of this policy
is the subsonic bomber designed
for flight at high altitudes, but
it must be accepted that as super-
sonic weapons are introduced
into the defence, so must the
offence keep ahead by the
development of the supersonic
bomber and the rocket-propelled
ballistic missile.
“This latter weapon would
create a serious problem for the
defence, especially if it could be
fired from a mobile base, or one
which could be successfully
hidden until the time of dis-
charge. In this way, it would
overcome one of the principal
weaknesses of the present
bomber-force—that it is depend-
ent upon airfields which might be
destroyed in an initial blow.”
* * *
D. J. Farrar (Chief Designer,
Guided Weapons, Bristol Air-
craft, Ltd .), in London “Financial
Times” ; “It would be futile to
suggest that guided weapons in
this country [Britain] are at
the present moment in a stage
equal to that reached by the
U.S.A. That country started with
a three-year lead. There is no
reason to suppose that British
progress is now more than that
time behind the American posi-
tion and it may well be that
many of the British designs are,
in fact, technically superior to
their American counterparts.”
* * *
Peter Twiss (Fairey Aviation's
test-pilot ), in London “News
Chronicle” : “The Fairey Delta
2, which holds the world speed-
record, is almost completely
devoid of any form of electronic
computers or devices.
“In it, other pilots and I have
amassed a vast amount of aero-
dynamic and many other
‘-namics’ of information vital
both to my company and other
aircraft- and engine-companies in
this country—data which could
never have been obtained so
quickly or so cheaply with robot
brains.
“The human brains that have
controlled this aircraft through-
out its test-flights weigh ounces,
are adaptable to enormous
changes of ' temperature and
pressure and can be questioned
and primed with complex last-
minute information even while
a flight is in progress.
“If we are not yet ready to
entrust this kind of work to
electronic masterpieces, it would
be madness to put our national
survival into their unfeel-
ing, unfriendly, undiscriminating
metallic hands.”
* * *
London “Economist ” : “There
are more really good engines in
Britain today than there are air-
craft for them to drive ; design
talent has always, indeed, been
clustered more thickly in the
British engine-factories than in
the rest of the industry.- Both
Rolls-Royce and Bristol are fly-
ing new turbo-prop engines in the
4000-horsepower class and De
Havilland is developing a smaller,
lighter engine from its massive
Gyron. Bristol has been lucky
to be able to use a Britannia air-
frame for some of the flight-
testing, while Rolls-Royce has
a makeshift installation in the
nose of an old Lincoln bomber
that makes the Lincoln look
even more of a backwoodsman
among the jets than aircraft like
the Handley Page Herald or the
Scottish Aviation Pioneer that
are designed for genuine back-
woods operations.”
Suez and Israel
Quoting letters between Mr.
Menzies and Egyptian President
Nasser, London “Economist”
describes them as “worth quota-
tion because they display that
the real issue is one of confidence
on both sides”:
“President Nasser has no con-
fidence in a multinational board,
because he will not —he says he
could not —sell his public a pro-
ject that looks like occupation
all over again. He cites, as justi-
fication for his fears, the fact
that Egypt is currently subject
to ‘threats, the deployment of
armed forces and.... economic
pressure’; further, the Big Three
stacked the pack when they
picked the nations invited to
London.
“Simultaneously, the 18
nations have no confidence in
Egypt’s word that it will keep,
and is keeping, the canal open
in the spirit of the 1888 Con-
vention. What trust can they
put in the word of a man who,
for demagogic purposes, on July
26 snaps short a concession on
grounds that ‘the Suez Canal
Company annually takes £35-
million ; why shouldn’t we take
it ourselves?’ and on September
9 affirms that ‘we have
announced our intention to
divert none of the revenues
needed for (canal) development
to other channels’?
“When a ruler needs money
and has destroyed the confidence
of foreign lenders, are not his
home Budgetary considerations
bound to come first? Are not
foreign misgivings justified when
London “Daily Mail”
MIND THAT CHILD
Egyptian servants on the canal-
bank remind passers-by that it
is in their power to send dis-
favored nations to the back of
the shipping-queue? Lastly, are
they not justified in querying
Egyptian assurances when they
reflect on the case of Israel?”
“Admittedly,” the “Economist”
adds, “Egypt’s critics are on
weak ground when they cite
Israel’s case, because they are
themselves at fault through
having condoned since 1951
Egypt’s flouting of the Security
Council resolution of that year.
Nevertheless, the treatment
Israel has had is relevant to
current assurances, for what is
happening to its goods today
could happen to someone else’s
tomorrow.”
Also commenting on the posi-
tion of Israel, London “Daily
Telegraph” points out that Prime
Minister Eden has refused to
consider the question of supply-
ing Israel with more arms at this
stage of negotiating with Egypt
because of the likelihood of
“exciting the hostility of Jordan
and Irak”:
“The same consideration ex-
plains why Israel was not invited
to the London conference, puts
in doubt whether she will be
invited to join the new [Canal]
Users’ Association, and has
caused the Western Governments
to soft-pedal on the outrage that
for years Israeli ships have not
been allowed by Egypt to use
the canal. But sooner or later
these questions must be resolved.
“The balance of power
between Israel and the Arabs,
which the Tripartite Declaration
was designed to maintain, has
been upset. There are sinister
signs that the tempo, if not the
quantity, of Communist arms-
deliveries to Egypt has been
increased. What is at least
certain is that Nasser has sub-
stantial quantities of Russian
and, alas, of British tanks to
which the Israelis have no
effective counter.
“In the air, the balance is
steadier, because Russian jet-
aircraft are faced with a
number of French Mystere jet-
aircraft of high quality. But the
overall set-up remains tilted in
favor of Egypt.
“Among all those watching
the Suez crisis, the Israelis have
the most cause to be anxious.
It is difficult to see how, if
Nasser wins over Suez, war,
either aggressive by Egypt or
preventive by Israel, could be
averted. That is yet another
reason why Nasser must not
win.”
Cyprus
“Manchester Guardian”
summing-up of the latest
Commons debate on Cyprus:
“The debate, though barren,
has shown more clearly where
Cyprus divides opinion in this
country [Britain].
“First, the Government
regards all nationalists who use
violence as terrorists with whom
we cannot negotiate, so long as
we think we can crush them.
The rest of the world, as Mr.
Noel-Baker said, regards them as
partisans or patriots not unlike
those whom we [Britain] incited
in the last war.
“The trouble with the Govern-
ment’s stonewalling over the past
few years is that it has lumped
together in earnest men who,
though all ultimately ready to
take to violence, are not all of
the same stamp.
“Thus what we know of the
Grivas diaries suggests that
Papagos and quite possibly
Makarios were at first reluctant
to give E.O.K.A. [terrorist
organisation] its head. The
E.O.K.A. leaders, indeed, are as
unfit to guide the Greek Cypriots
as the Government says they are.
But who else is there to guide
the Cypriots now?
“And if we crush E.O.K.A.
and keep Makarios in the Sey-
chelles what shall we have before
us except a void? The case for
bringing Makarios to London is
as strong as ever.”
Malta
With Suez and Cyprus to
perplex it, the U.K. Government
would seem to have more than
its fair share, but Malta, too,
presents problems —it would only


THE “WILD CAT*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/:—•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
’ ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
L-
>>
59755
rv <r^
m
<r A
m
\
-.1
Z< )
>=s<
m r
MM *
H
»
!*% %
Vf-J."Vj.. :
but he has a fast friend!
AOSTA* l/A'S SOA £ A
G A f O l/Af £
Make the spirit of JT/ap/n/ ffletcliiuf
you# MSr F#/fMQ TOO!
AT YOUR
(atlmtic)
RETAILER
need a revival of arguments with
Spain over Gibraltar to turn the
Mediterranean into a whole sea
of troubles.
A short while ago interest in
Malta centred around proposals
for the island’s “integration” with
the United Kingdom and the
right to send three members to
Westminster. That has yet to be
decided by the Maltese people
at the next election, and, as
London “Daily Telegraph” notes,
“if they [the Maltese] want to
achieve parity with the United
Kingdom standard of living, they
will have to prove they are pre-
pared to share the economic and
political hazards, as well as the
prosperity, which Britain now
has to offer.”
More recently, Malta’s
economic difficulties have over-
shadowed the issue of integra-
tion, and have been reflected in
the visit of the Maltese Prime
Minister (Mr. Mintoff) to
London and his efforts to obtain
an increase in the U.K. Govern-
ment’s grant of £5,000,000 to his
island.
“At the moment,” London
“Financial Times” comments
editorially, “the Maltese economy
is as lopsided as that of Jordan”:
“The island’s role as a military
base has encouraged the growth
of a population which only the
military base can keep in exis-
tence. There is a dearth of
skilled labor, water is scarce,
there are no raw materials,
agriculture is undeveloped, the
services on which any industrial
development must depend are
scarce and expensive.
“This situation (for which
Britain is partly responsible)
clearly cannot be allowed to
continue. The present policy of
providing an annual, unproduc-
tive subsidy is in the long-term
interest neither of Britain nor
of Malta. Yet mass-emigration,
which creams the population of
its best elements and leaves it
more unbalanced than before,
is no solution to the problem.
“The only possibility and
that an extraordinarily difficult
one —is to foster the potential
elements of growth in the
economy, agriculture certainly,
and tourism, but above all light-
industry.”
Elsewhere in the “Financial
Times” Colin Bruce, Economic
Adviser to the Maltese Govern-
ment, agrees that “it is unlikely
that much heavy-industry will
be attracted to Malta”:
“What then are the chances of
light-industries? Malta already
has industries making, for
example, beer and mineral-
waters, buttons, gloves, nylon
stockings, socks, pipes, tomato-
paste, wine, handicrafts, hand-
bags and edible oil.
“British firms have recently
applied for and been granted
monopolies for hand-tufted and
Persian-type carpets, lard and
watches. Other industries which
might also be started-up in Malta
shortly are cement, fish-canning,
textiles and rubberised tarmac.
The Maltese Government has
also received a number of
inquiries from British firms,
some of whom said they would
wait until integration became a
reality.
“It would be foolish to be
over-optimistic about the pro-
spects for industrialisation, but
it would also be tragic to be too
pessimistic, for what is the
alternative?”
U.S. Foreign Aid
Commenting on the economic
competition between America
and the Soviet for the goodwill
of other nations, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” says of the U.S., “a
country which has given away
$50,000-million in the last 10
years should surely be able to
beat the Soviet Union hands-
down” :
“Unfortunately, gratitude is
not to be expected in politics.
Loan oft loseth both itself and
friend. But for American aid in
post-war years Western Europe
would have been in a state of
chaos. Yet we seldom speak of
our debt to the Americans, and
underdeveloped countries are
less likely to feel grateful to a
rich creditor.
“The rouble-drive, in which
the satellites are taking part as
well as Russia, is directed mainly,
though not entirely, towards un-
committed countries like India
and Burma. It is partly a com-
mercial and partly a propaganda
venture. Russia is apt to promise
more than she performs, as may
be suspected she has done in the
case of Egypt’s project for the
Aswan High Dam. Yet she gets
credit from her promises, and
when it suits her she can deliver
the goods.
“America’s grants and loans to
India amount to about $5OO-
- while the total for Asia
is about $lO,OOO-million. Rus-
sian aid is on nothing like this
colossal scale, but it seems to
earn better political dividends.
“The United States has been
giving away so much that its
assistance is taken for granted,
and continuation is assumed.
When Russia is building up her
own industries, it seems to be
like self-sacrifice for her to send
equipment to others, and Soviet
propagandists stress the fact that
from her own experience Russia
understands the problems of
industrialisation.
“An agonising reappraisal, as
Mr. Dulles would say, of Western
aid-policy is needed.”
That reappraisal, of course,
is now under way, President
Eisenhower having appointed to
the task Benjamin F. Fairless,
retired head of the United States
Steel Corporation.
In studying U.S. foreign-aid
policy, the Fairless committee,
together with two Congressional
committees, will, “New York
Times” comments, “be interested
in the wisdom of the allocations,
the soundness of the practical
purposes sought and the effective-
ness of administration. There
may have been inefficiency.
There may even have been
corruption—as sometimes occurs
in the expenditure of public
funds at home.
“But the principal reason for
a complete re-examination of
mutual security is that the world
itself has changed rapidly. Russia
seemingly has shifted some
weight from the military to the
economic, and has a foreign-aid
programme of her own. Some
countries which we [the U.S.]
have been willing to aid in the
hope that they were honestly
working toward a democratic
way of life are now on the
doubtful list. Yugoslavia could
be one of these ; so might Egypt
and other Arab nations.
“But mutual security remains
a good and honest ideal. We do
not believe the Fairless com-
mittee or any Congressional
group will turn away from it.”
Meanwhile, one aspect of
American assistance to overseas
countries is—at any rate, to
“New York Herald Tribune”—
“an appealing, imaginative opera-
tion that has added to America’s
store of goodwill abroad.”
This is the scheme for the
disposal of surplus U.S. food—
“an ingenious arrangement that
has made it possible for dollar-
shy, friendly countries to use
their own currencies to buy
surplus American food. India,
for example, pays rupees ; Brazil
pays cruzeiros, and Greece pays
drachmae. They obtain food that
they could not afford to buy if
they had to spend dollars.”
“Sixty-two agreements,” the
“Herald Tribune” adds, “have
been signed with 29 countries
since the disposal effort got
under way September 9, 1954.
The foreign buyers have bought
surpluses that cost the United
States about $2lOO-million. The
Government has authority to
sell up to $3OOO-million worth,
and there is every expectation
that the authority will have been
exhausted when the current
fiscal year ends next June 30.
“The United States has col-
lected about $ 1400-million for
the surplus wheat, cotton, rice,
tobacco and other crops that
originally cost $2lOO-million.
“Some of the money—close to
30 per' cent. —will come back
immediately, for it will be paid
out for Embassy operating-
expenses and the like. Some —
a small part—won’t come back
at all, for the United States will
grant it to the buying countries
for use in their development pro-
grammes. Other small fractions
are being used to broaden
markets for American farm-
products, for purchases of
strategic materials, for inter-
national exchange-activities, and
for the purchase of supplies
needed by countries receiving
foreign aid.”
The countries buying food
from Uncle Sam on these terms
have, the “Herald Tribune” con-
cludes, “been able to divert
dollars and other foreign-
exchange reserves from the pur-
chase of additional food to a
wide variety of essential imports.
Their development programmes
are going ahead at a normal
pace. Their growing populations
are being fed, and the surpluses
are helping to check inflationary
demands generated by the
development projects. These are
important achievements.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Sydney’s Public Library
Sydney Public Library’s statutory
endowment has remained at £2OOO since
1899, although the value of money has
shrunk greatly since then and book-prices
have risen correspondingly.
The library also receives an annual
appropriation from the State Govern-
ment, as well as private endowments.
Last financial year the appropriation was
£14,000, and private endowments
amounted to about £4OOO, but these sums
were insufficient to prevent severe restric-
tion of new-book buying.
The Public Library serves a most
important social purpose. It is the lead-
ing source of written information for
the general public, industry and the
Government. It is a source of valuable
historical, economic, artistic and scien-
tific publications that would be beyond
the pockets of most private citizens.
Surely the proposed expenditure on an
expensive opera-house would be better
directed to the Public Library—a much
more valuable institution. — Morris the
Tinker (N.S.W.).
Crime and Punishment
Joyriders and thieves are stealing £3-
million worth of cars a year in Victoria,
according to a Police Department survey.
Damage to the cars amounts to about
£90,000, which does not take into account
indirect losses to owners through being
deprived of the use of their cars.
Last December, Victorian law made
the illegal use of cars an indictable
offence and stiffened the maximum
penalties—now £lOO fine or 12 months
jail, or both, for a first offence, and five
years’ jail without the option of fine for
a second offerfee —but there has been
no decline in the rate of car-thefts.
Two reasons for this have been
advanced by the police: first, car-thieves
and joyriders are still receiving light
penalties in the shape of small fines or
brief jailing; second, the car-theft squad
is understaffed.
On the same day that the foregoing
statements were • published a newspaper
reported an s.-p. bookmaker being fined
£lO0 —the same as the maximum for a
first-offence car-theft.
Those who administer the law, it seems,
view s.-p. bookmaking as a more serious
crime than the theft of a man’s property!
Bookmaking, in itself, is not criminal;
it may be morally repugnant to those who
object, on principle, to gambling, but
even illegal bookmaking, such as
unlicensed street-betting, does not seri-
ously transgress the moral code of most
citizens. Those who lose money to s.-p.
bookmakers do so of their own volition,
and it is open to question whether the
community would be worse off if the
unlicensed bookmaker were permitted to
operate freely.
But car-stealing is stealing, however one
looks at it—an offence against the
accepted moral code, and rightly classed
as a serious crime. There is no doubt it
could be prevented and practically wiped
out if adequate police were made avail-
able for the job, and if offenders were
really punished.— Doynest (Vic.).
Savings Campaign
A savings-campaign as suggested by
“K.Mc.” (B. 19/9/’56) is sound in theory
but difficult to put into effective practice.
Schoolchildren should be encouraged in
thrift, but the results of such a course,
however successful, would be some years
in maturing. Saving now is what’s
needed, and those who should be doing it
are young men and women on high wages
but without dependants or responsi-
bilities.
Our older wage-earners fall into three
groups: those whose pay-cheques are
little more than adequate to cover their
reasonable living-expenses; those who
already save their surplus income; and
those who throw their money about and
\vould now never learn the wisdom of
saving.
We must, therefore, concentrate on out-
working youth. Unfortunately the general
idea today is that money should be easily
come-by and quickly spent. I doubt
whether young people as a body could
be taught to save, but they can be made
to save. And what begins under compul-
sion would in many instances persist as a
habit.
It should not be difficult to devise a
system of compulsory saving-certificates
applicable to all those whose incomes,
after taxation, are clearly in excess of
their reasonable current needs.
These certificates would attract com-
pound interest at the current Common-
wealth-bond rate (such interest to be
exempt from income-tax) and could be
cashed on marriage, on acceptance of new
responsibilities (spell as the care of aged
parents), or to meet cost of higher educa-
tion ; or, otherwise, say, at the age of 30.
“K.Mc.’s” reference to the high charges
involved in buying by hire-purchase sug-
gests a law that all goods for sale on
terms should be clearly ticketed with the
cash-price and total cost to the hire-
purchase buyer. The difference would-
make many reconsider the wisdom of
going on with the deal. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Accident Compensation
It’s time some attempt was made to
institute a system of national insurance.
At present, large sums are often paid as
compensation in road-accident cases,
while those unfortunates injured in
accidents not covered by the Road l raffle
Act or Workmen’s Compensation Act are
neglected.
The wisdom of paying overlarge sums
to injured people is also questionable.
For instance, a woman
awarded £20,500 for the
loss of the use of a leg
after a road-accident
stated that she would,
if necessary, spend the
whole amount in order
to be able to lead an
active life again.
Wise investment of
this sum in a good in-
dustrial security would
give an income of over
£lOOO a year and enable
her to take on some
form of light occupa-
tion and undergo cura-
tive treatment.
A national fund
financed from com-
pulsory third-party in-
surance-premiums and
a levy of Is. per head
per week on all wage-
earners generally would
provide a fund sufficient
to cope with all
accident-cases.
The accumulated
sum could be made
available to the Govern-
ment at interest for
developmental . works,
the income from it to
be credited to a
“national insurance
claims-fund” which could be allocated
or invested on behalf of injured persons
at the discretion of a Government board,
Under existing conditions it is quite
possible for persons receiving handsome
damages to be reduced to penury by
unwise investment or by quacks, and
ultimately to become a charge against the
„ . • institution
Government in
L. G. o. (s.a.j.
Lawson’s Last Work
In his article “When Henry Died” (B.
29/8/’56) W. E. Fitz Henry mentions
that Henry Lawson called at The
Bulletin office on the Wednesday before
he died to leave “the last piece of prose
he was to write, one of the ‘Elderman’s
Lane’ series.... which was published in
The Bulletin after his death.”
I have always believed that Henry
Lawson’s last prose effort was written
“ Squadron-Leader Prangley, sir. Low-flying again over the
Waaafs' quarters .”
for “Aussie,” then a flourishing monthly
edited by Phil Harris. The piece was
one of a series titled “The Casual Aus-
tralian,” and a page of Lawson’s
manuscript, showing where his pencil had
trailed off when he collapsed, was repro-
duced in “Aussie,” with the announce-
ment that the story was being finished
by the editor.
I cherished that page from “Aussie”
till it was lost to me when I went to
Hitler’s war. It was Henry’s last prose,
and he died while writing it, according
to “Aussie”; and over the years I’ve
wondered why I have never seen refer-
ence to the incident elsewhere, or why
“The Casual Australian” has not been
included in any of Lawson’s collected
stories.—-O. W, Wadham (N.Z.).
Augustan Dictatorship
Clem Lack (B. 25/7/’56) need not
go so far back as the Roman Emperor
Augustus.
The- most vital necessity for stable and
civilised society is the establishment and
maintenance of law and order. When
these are in danger of breaking-down,
through public disobedience —or when
sections of society choose to take the
law into their own hands to enforce their
demands—then the State that allows it
is not very far from anarchy. To that,
autocracy may well be the only reason-
able answer.
Industrial relations in Australia during
the visit of Professor Toynbee may well
have moved him to think along the lines
which resulted in his remarks about
dictatorship. Democracy cannot remain
successful without a sense of communal
discipline.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
The Arabs
It has certainly been “a protracted,
futile, wasteful and humiliating love-
affair [between Britain and the Arabs],
which has survived many disillusion-
ments, jolts, a deal of spite and a great
deal of treachery” (“Uncabled Additions,
B. 29/8/’56); but the responsibility for
all the discord of the courtship can’t be
sheeted home to any one person,
Government or nation.
The Arab distrust of the West stems
in the main from the peace-conferences
following World War I, when promises
made to the Arabs by Britain and France
(or, as in some cases, supposedly made)
were not fulfilled—or were not fulfilled to
the Arabs’ satisfaction. What T. E.
Lawrence, without power to do so,
promised them could not be fulfilled —
and the Arabs naturally blamed Britain.
A more important reason for Arab
hostility lies in the way Britain handled
tbe resettlement of the Jews in Palestine
and the founding of Israel. Britain
endeavored to satisfy the national aspira-
tions D f both Arabs and Jews ; but this
was> f rom the start, impossible,
For instance, the Balfour Declaration
of 1917 contained what is now generally
regarded as two mutually irreconcilable
undertakings: the flooding of Palestine
with Jewish immigrants, coupled with the
proviso that “nothing shall be done to
prejudice the civil and religious rights of
non-Jewish communities in Palestine.
As it has turned out, the Jews were the
only ones satisfied, for they got by far
the better end of the Palestine bargain.
Kros (S.A.).
Bank-representation
References in The Bulletin to the
seemingly large number of branch-banks
now located in and around the cities -
particularly Sydney and Melbourne in-
dicate how the nature of banking in Aus-
tralia has changed over comparatively
recent years.
Not so long ago banking was largely
what might be termed land-mortgage busi-
ness —in fact, the Royal Commission on
Banking noted that Australian banking-
policy was too much one of “borrowing
short and lending long.”
In the early days, banks followed the
gold and were to be found on all the im-
portant fields, but as mining waned and
agricultural land was opened-up they
directed their attention to the growing
farming communities, making advances
to settlers against the security of broad
acres. Such business was lending “long.
With the advent of a high protective
tariff, and for other reasons favorable to
expansion of factories, Australia reached
a fairly high degree of industrialisation.
This resulted in tremendous city and
suburban growth, and explains why the
banks, particularly in the eastern States,
now find it necessary to maintain about
an equal number of branches in city and
country. .
About the time of World War I one of
the largest banks operating in Victoria
had but two or three branches in the city
proper and a comparatively small numbei
in the suburbs. Today the same bank jias
19 branches in the city proper and 63 id
the suburbs of Melbourne —a total of 84,
which is about equal to all the branches
in the rest of the State.
Now spread over a much greater range
of activity, Australian banking is of a
much more liquid nature, and to that
extent the movement has been in line with
the conclusions of the Royal Commission
on Banking. No longer can the charge be
made that the business is too much of a
land-mortgage nature —not that countr>
interests have been neglected ; meiely that
the banks are follpwing the develop-
mental pattern of Australia.
By and large, I doubt whether any other
country in the world has a better banking-
system than ours. —Ceg (Vic.).


those who are chosen should be
answerable for their actions to
the people ; and it is linked with
a conception that a man or
woman has a value as an
individual and that each
individual has both the right and
the capacity to take part in the
shaping of his own life and the
life of the community to which
he belongs.
The full expression of this
principle is undoubtedly far in
advance of either the ideas or
the capacities of the primitive
villager. It is true that the
villagers were accustomed to
discuss their affairs among them-
selves, or to have them discussed
by a group of elders whose
power of decision was recog-
nised. They were also accus-
tomed to recognise the leadership
of those distinguished among
them either for wealth or
physical prowess.
There is something in those
practices on which we can build
quite readily and, throughout
the history of Australian rule,
our Administration has built on
them. In the selection and
appointment of head-men (or
luluais) and in the selection and
appointment of village councils
in the old style the district-
officers used their intelligence
and knowledge in order to select
those who would be acceptable
as leaders to the village, and who
had the qualities which both
village and Administration would
require in a councillor.
From the start, acceptability
to the village appears to have
been considered important.
Today, on these foundations of
local authority, we have com-
menced to build local-govern-
ment councils in villages or
groups of villages. These
councils are fully elected by
those who pay local taxes to
their villages.
A gradual transition had to
be made, from the stage at which
the head-man or council was
selected and appointed by a
district-officer, to the stage at
which a truly elective council
came into being. This was neces-
sary because of the primitive
nature of the social organisation
on which we had to build. In
time there will be transition to
larger representative bodies,
perhaps to federations of local-
government councils; or to
regional councils, and then to
federations of regional councils.
Starting at the other end of the
scale, on the creation of a Legis-
lative Council for the Territory
the Government selected three of
the indigenous people from
different parts of the Territory
to become members.
There is not, at present, and
cannot be for many years to
come, any possibility of a Terri-
tory-wide franchise for the native
people. They are separated into
so many different language-
groups ; they are at so many
different stages of progress
towards civilisation; and there
are so many of them still
unaware, or only partly aware,
of what a legislative council is
that any attempt to form an
electoral-roll would be a
travesty of any democratic prin-
ciple and would only have the
effect of allowing a very small
minority of the people in a few
regions to assume the representa-
tion of the interests of tens of
thousands of people about
whom they know" less than do
the officers of the Administra-
tion.
In time the numbers of native
members appointed to such
bodies will be steadily increased
and, with the increase, greater
efforts will be made consciously
to give the selection a more
widely representative character.
Perhaps the first advance might
be after the development of more
of the local-government councils,
to give those councils an oppor-
tunity for the nomination of
some of those to be considered
for selection to the Legislative
Council, but even then the
representative principle will only
be served if the Administration
itself were to select other
members who might be con-
sidered as representative of those
people still at an earlier stage of
progress towards civilisation.
Thus we see that in the serv-
ing of this principle, as in the
serving of the other principles,
we cannot take a facile course
towards the immediate creation
of representative institutions.
A point worth noting here
concerns the immigrant Euro-
pean and native-born Chinese
population, numbering about
12,000 and 3000 respectively.
They are already competent to
perform most of the political
duties of citizens in a democracy,
and, in fact, adult residents
already form an electoral-roll
to choose three members of the
Legislative Council.
As their numbers and their
They're making buckets, at
Malaguna Tech., Rabaul —
metal-work and tinsmithing
are among the many trades
taught.
interest in local affairs grow they
will naturally become more and
more impatient at having to
mark-time while the native
population catches up on
political progress. They will
want a larger representation on
the existing local institutions, and
they will want to see the powers
of these institutions increased.
Such legitimate aspirations
cannot and should not be
suppressed; yet, clearly, any
such Constitutional change
cannot be made without pro-
viding for the due representation
in all local institutions of the
overwhelming majority of the
population the indigenous
people.
The fourth and last principle
which I think should guide us
in our administration of this
Territory can perhaps be
described best as the principle of
trusteeship. I use the word
“trusteeship” rather reluctantly
because, in recent years, the
term has been somewhat con-
taminated by being dragged
around the four corners of the
world and blown about the
corridors and halls of the
United Nations. However, the
idea, as I see it, is a simple one.
In talking of the principle of
trusteeship I think we should
not place the emphasis on the
legal side. The key word is
“trust” not “trustee.”
The proof we have to give is
a common feeling of confidence
and mutual respect between us
and the inhabitants of this
Territory. The success of what
we do there, the value of the
work of every one of our
Australian officers there, and the
conduct of every Australian who
lives there are measured in terms
of the trust of the people. Their
trust, in a direct, personal and
human sense, is the most
precious thing for which we
must care in our government of
the Territory.
My own political creed makes
me opposed to those who attempt
to govern a civilised society while
talking of the masses instead of
persons, or placing reliance on
the authority of the State rather
than on the good sense of the
individual.
Yet here, too, much more
strongly than in our Australian
mainland society, there are local
conditions that would tend to
obscure this faith. The line of a
hundred laborers going to work
on a plantation, all in their white
lap-laps; the stamping and
gesticulating crowd of thousands
on thousands of men in elaborate
plumed headdresses at a native
gathering ; even the packed
schoolroom where no single face
Nuts help this little fellow learn to count at the Lutheran Mission
School, Menyamya.
imprints itself from among the
many round fuzzy heads and
bright, eager, staring eyes ; the
rows of expectant mothers in
hospital, squatting on their beds,'
waiting their time—all these givej
to those who pass quickly an:'
impression of herded humanity,'
of similarity and of numbers of*
people, and little impression of
individuals. But, though the
tasks of administration are many
and varied, we must not pass
over them so quickly that we
forget that every one of those
tasks touches an individual
person who is in our care.
We have to recognise, too, that
this is and always will be a
country in which the pre-
dominant population will be the
indigenous inhabitants. At
present they number approxi-
mately lf-million, but I feel con-
fident that, in coming genera-
tions, as the result of the con-
quest of disease, the reduction of
infant-mortality, the improve-
ment of nutrition and the great
social and economic changes
which will come as the result of
what we have started to do in
the Territory, the population
iwill greatly increase.
f At present there can only be
I guesses, but a guess of 10-million
! or even more by natural increase'
does not seem to me to be im-
probable.
In general terms, we can say
that our daily task is a twofold
one of trying to advance the
native people towards a higher
intellectual, moral and economic
life, and of developing the
resources of the country.
We start to educate the people.
We try to improve their health
and their hygiene. We introduce
new crops and new foodstuffs
and show them how to produce
them. We teach them the use of
tools and machines. We change
their daily habits.
They themselves become eager
for further advancement of the
same kind. In the process of
advancement, they engage in
many new activities. They learn
by doing. In order to maintain
the standard of living to which
they have risen they have to enter
on economic activities.
In addition to growing a new
variety of foodstuffs in his own
garden the native landowner
begins to grow coffee or cocoa,
not because he wants to eat it all
himself, but because he can sell
it and obtain the means of
acquiring the additional food-
stuffs which he does not grow,
the tools and machines and
materials with which to build.
While this is going on,
hospitals, schools, roads, bridges,
wharves, water-supplies, elec-
tricity-supplies and other services
are being built at the cost of
millions of pounds, in a country
where only a few years ago none
of these things existed. There is
a need for the imports from
overseas —for example, the lamp
and the table, in the operating-
theatre, the motor-vehicle that
runs on the roads, the electric-
lighting plant for the village,
the refrigerating-unit.
In this work (on which j
Governmental expenditure by
both the Administration andf
other Commonwealth Depart-;
ments last year totalled about!
£l4£-million, about three times
as much as five years ago) wc.
of course, face considerable
difficulties by reason of the;
physical features and climate of
the country. Mountains, jungles,
swamps and torrential rivers
have to be mastered. Then, too,
we are not dealing with one
people but with many people.
The wide variety of human types
must immediately strike any
visitor who travels beyond the.
ports—tall ones, short ones,
black skins, brown skins, fuzzy
hair and straight hair.
They speak between 200 and
300 different languages. Some
live in villages perched on
remote mountain-ridges; some
live deep in the jungle; some
in large coastal villages; some
on and about the many water-
ways of the Fly and Sepik rivers ;
some in the hundreds of out-
lying islands.
They are, too, at different
stages of advancement. It is a
wrong impression that in the
\ present day all of the Territory
is in a primitive and undeveloped
state.
I could take you to some
parts, mostly on the coast, and
introduce you to native peoples
who own and conduct their own
enterprises, who enjoy cash-
incomes and have bank-balances,
who own motor-vehicles and
who run their own affairs and
take an active part in village
affairs through their local-
government councils. I could
also introduce you to school-
teachers, medical-assistants and
carpenters, and you would have
no difficulty in engaging in con-
versation with them. In the
same areas, you could see
children in school or in technical
training. It may be that from
such a community would come
some of the boys and girls who
today are sitting in Australian
secondary schools alongside
Australian boys and girls. In
other areas the people are still
primitive savages.
This lack of uniformity in
progress throughout the Terri-
tory sets another problem.
Unless we make extraordinary
efforts to redress this uneven-
ness, we are going to be faced
very shortly with the serious
problem that is always set for
any society in which there are
backward and, in practical effect,
underprivileged elements. Per-
haps one of the biggest and most
urgent responsibilities we have
is to make the most strenuous
efforts possible among the more
backward people.
There is a different kind of
unevenness in the more pro.
gressive areas, for there the
women have lagged behind the
men. Already special measure*
have been com
menced to help the
women reach a
higher level.
Historically, there
is no such thing as
Papuan nationalism.
It is impossible for
there to be any
nationalism until the
people know about
one another, can
communicate with
one another, and feel
that they have a
common interest.
Such a sense of
nationalism as mav
be developed will
largely be the result
of our actions in
stimulating change,
breaking down the
barriers which divide
the people, and
educating them.
Scores of different
groups knowing no
relationship with
each other may
gradually become a
Papuan people joined
by a common lan-
guage, living at a
common standard of material
well-being, and with a common
culture, strongly influenced by
Christian teaching and by Aus-
tralian social, economic and
political practice, but preserving
and enriching all that is best
in their native cultural heritage.
They certainly will not remain
as they have been for centuries.
They certainly will net be exactly
as we are. They will be a new
people living a new life in a
new land.
Today these people are eager
for civilisation. They are grasp-
ing avidly the material advan-
tages of our way of life. Their
minds are responding with great
curiosity to the new sights they
see and the new ideas which we
have brought. The desire for
self-improvement among them
is strong.
We have to care very deeply
about what we do, for it is
going to have a strong influence
on what these people are in the
generations to come.


urs
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
tmmm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT MELBOURNE ROYAL
Beef Cattle
POLL breeds, especially the
Aberdeen Angus and Poll
Herefords, made great strides
again at Melbourne’s 1956
Olympic Royal Show. Herefords
were well up to standard ; Short-
horns pleased South African
judge R. A. P. Trollip greatly ;
and Devons and Poll Shorthorns
again made slight advances.
In general, young cattle were
better than their elders and
females scored more points than
the bulls. Most obvious faults
were in the forelegs and hind-
quarters of some beasts. Taking
into consideration the very wet
winter, overall quality was a
credit to the exhibitors.
In contrast to last year’s
judging-day, the weather was
cloudy and cool with a few rays
of sunshine and two or three
showers of rain, though not
heavy enough to scatter the big
attendances of interested spec-
tators from the ringsides.
For the first time, TV-cameras
gazed into the rings to televise
the gay scene to those not able to
see it in person.
“Probably the best display of
the Aberdeen Angus breed ever
to parade in an Australian show-
ring,” was the opinion of C. A.
Ross, of Glen Innes (N.S.W.),
who was judging in Melbourne
for the first time. He has now
adjudicated at Royal Shows in
every capital city in the Com-
monwealth.
He was particularly pleased
with the quality and evenness of
the younger classes, in which the
top six or eight animals were
all worthy of awards.
Heads were especially good,
but one or two entries failed in
the hindquarters.
The idea of marking
and tailing lambs and
marking calves by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings was introduced
in Australia in 1947.
In that year a few
hundred stock owners
adopted the idea and
found that by using
the rings all the draw-
backs of • the old
methods were over-
come. The number
of enthusiastic users
grew greater and
greater each subse-
quent year until today
Elastrator Rubber
Rings are used on
most large stations
and on thousands of
smaller properties
throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Both junior champions, as well
as the champion cow, were very
stylish and exhibited outstanding
carriage. The senior-champion
bull, Wallah Master Burbon,
exhibited by E. C. and B. L.
Hawkins and Sons, of Tocumwal
(N.S.W.), was big, fleshy, even,
smooth and handled very well.
The reserve champion, Teri-
nallum Tyrant 11, entered by
Terinallum Pastoral Co. Pty.,
Ltd., of Lilydale (Vic.), was also
a very nice bull, but not quite
Beautifully proportioned Edzell Greta, owned by Hugh Middleton of Clematis (Vic.), was cham-
pion Aberdeen Angus cow at the Melbourne Royal.
as long as the champion from
hips back to tail.
Terinallum Pastoral Co. also
won the junior reserve champion-
ship, with Terinallum Ambas-
sador. Junior champion was
Hugh Middleton’s (Clematis)
Edzell Gay Gordon. Like the
champion senior and junior
females, Edzell Gay Gordon was
sired by Terinallum Tyrant.
The top females all had
glorious heads and were splendid
to handle. The senior champion,
Hugh Middleton’s Edzell Greta,
was one of the most beautiful
animals present writer has seen.
Like the reserve champion—
Terinallum Pastoral Co.’s T.
Catalina, by the famous N.Z. sire
Black Idol of Mangatoro—it had
a young calf at foot.
Mr. Middleton and Terinallum
Pastoral Co. also paraded the
junior champion and reserve
champions respectively—E. Tryst
and T. Gaiety.
Although these outstanding
breeders dominated the major
prizes, keen competition was
provided by several other stud-
masters. In the male classes, the
best of these were R. C. N.
Clarke, of Seymour (Vic.), and
Williams Victoree Farms Pty.,
Ltd., of Dalmore (Vic.). Blue
ribbons in the female classes
were won by the major prize-
winners and John Troup, of
Coghills Creek (Vic.), R. Hib-
berson, of Huon (Vic.), and
G. T. Reid Estate, of Yass
(N.S.W.).
The Dropmore Trophy, for
the best group of three animals
by the one sire, naturally went
to Mr. Middleton’s group by
Terinallum Tyrant. By winning
th e Jackson Winterbottom
Trophy for the best group of
three bulls, Terinallum Pastoral
Co. became permanent owners.
The same company won its
second successive challenge for
the Roy Osmond Trophy for
two bulls by the same sire.
The 117 Poll Herefords put on
an excellent parade for the breed,
which has made remarkable
progress during the last few
years. The judge, J. W. William-
son, of Bowral (N.S.W.), was
very pleased with the blockiness
and thickness of the tops, and
was particularly impressed by the
junior classes.
Juniors of both sexes won all
the major prizes. In the female
classes, the youngsters were well
ahead of the aged entries.
In both senior and junior bull
championships, W. J. Lenehan’s
(Narrandera, N.S.W.) Brewar-
rana Major 111 scored from
Deepfields Kinross, exhibited by
K. G. Luke, of Romsey (Vic.).
. The latter’s half-sister, D.
Dawn VII, won both senior and
junior reserve championships;
the heifer was beaten by Oakfield
Elaine IV, daughter of Beau
Domino (U.S.A.), and owned by
J. D. and A. F. Campbell, of
Riddell (Vic.).
A feature of the Poll Hereford
section was the number of exhi-
bitors who won blue ribbons.
Apart from the major collectors,
J. A. and D. J. Hanson, of
Macarthur, T. R. Trewin, of
Tallygaroopna, Geoffrey Howell,
of Wollert (all Vic.) and S. T.
and C. H. Hawkins, of Finley
(N.S.W.), whacked up a good
share of prizes. And W. J.
Lenehan won both the group-
prizes for bulls.
Horned Herefords, too,
paraded outstanding juniors.
J. R. Allen, of Mortlake (Vic.),
continued his remarkable run of
junior-senior champions, broken
temporarily last year, with his
classy, wdll-fleshed young
champion South Boorook
Bridgend, by the imported Tar-
rington Keep On. The yearling
Midgeon Gem, exhibited by
K. P. and Mrs. J. A. Palmer,
also of Mortlake, was reserve in
both championships.
Most successful exhibitor of
Hereford cows and heifers was
C. R. Malseed, of Dartmoor
(Vic.), who captured all major
awards except the junior reserve
championship, which was won
by Kintore Linnett, exhibited by
D. Langham, of Yanco (N.S.W.).
Mr. Malseed’s champion cow,
Ascot Corisande, and champion
heifer. A. Winifred, were both
sired by the imported Glynne
Park Debonair. His reserve
champion cow, Golf .Hill
Winifred, mother of the
champion heifer, was sired by
the imported Tarrington Jolly-
man. Golf Hill Winifred was
formerly owned by the late Mrs.
Biddlecombe.
Other breeders to do well
included F. M. Mac Diarmid and
Sons, of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.),
Herbert Field Pty., Ltd., whose
properties are in different parts
of N.S.W., and L. P. Mitchell, of
Doreen (Vic.). Group-prizes
were won by J. R. Allen and
C. R. Malseed.
One of the notable successes
of the Show was the parade of
Shorthorns. In his excellent
summing-up South African
judge R. A. P. Trollip said that
the tops of both sexes were out-
standing. One fault was a
tendency to lightness in the bone
among some of the cows and
heifers.
In the main, legs were good.
In contrast to Shorthorns in
South Africa, which tended to
weakness in the hindlegs, some
of the Shorthorns in Melbourne
were faulty in the forelegs. South
African breeders were particu-
larly critical of sickle-hocks in
their herds.
There were a few rough heads
in the Melbourne parade, and
one of two beasts were a bit
lean in the muzzle.
In one or two bull classes there
was a slight divergence of type,
but this was much greater in
South Africa, where a specially
rangy beast was needed for some
of the rougher grazing-areas.
In general, color was excellent,
said Mr. Trollip.
Both bull and cow champions
came from the junior classes.
Both were owned by J. Kernel-
field, of Woodend, and both were
the progeny of the famous
Chapelton Ambassador, which
created a sensation when it
appeared in Melbourne first
about 11 years ago.
The champion bull, Wongala
Imperial, was a very good, level
sire which paraded well and
gaily. It was well fleshed and
stood well above the rest of the
field in quality.
Even so, both reserves were
excellent animals. The senior
reserve, Gulgoa Crown, was a
big cream beast exhibited by
Mrs. G. B. Crawford, of
Wallendbeen (N.S.W.); the
junior, Dauntless Prince Bona-
parte, was entered by Messrs.
Lithgow and Ross, of Cold-
stream.
The cows and heifers were
mostly more even and of more
conventional type than the bulls.
Mr. Kemelfield’s young dual
champion, Wongala Queen of
Rothes, scored from Messrs. G.
Starritt and Son’s (Mooroopna
North) Kelso Bud 111 in the
senior championship, and from
the same breeders’ K. Broad-
hooks Catherine for the major
award for heifers.
Other successful breeders of
Shorthorns included Sir Rupert
Clarke, of Bolinda Vale, and
Messrs. Thomas Falls, of Dingee,
D. R. McCaughey, of Wagga
(N.S.W.), and Alberni Bros., of
Ferntree Gully, and 1.C.1.A.N.Z.,
Ltd., of Deer Park.
Poll Shorthorns did not gain
much numerically, but main-
tained a steady improvement in
overall standard, said W. B.
Gibson, of Launceston (Tas.),
who judged them.
The champion bull, Merryville
Laddie, exhibited by Merryville
Pty., Ltd., of Yass (N.S.W.), was
a very symmetrical sire, with
plenty of bone. The reserve
champion, which was also junior
champion, was very good, too.
Entered by Kyalla Pty., Ltd., of
Towrang (N.S.W.), it was
Greenwich Howard.
Merryville Pty., Ltd., also
paraded the junior reserve
champion, M. Airline.
The senior cow champion,
Merryville’s Peel Lydia, by the
imported Alpine Sensation
(U.S.A.), was the outstanding
beast of the parade. The reserve
champion, M. Mountain
Mistress, was exhibited by the
same company.
Among the juniors, Mrs. Ivy
Browne’s (Young, N.S.W.)
Camoola Victoria, by the
imported Oakwood Bugler
(U.S.A.), was a very sweet heifer
champion. In reserve position,
was Kyalla Pty., Ltd.’s, younger
Greenwich Estelle Hester, by the


Best
.
Mineral
V
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
Os
CM
‘M€a£(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65°/. TRI-CAICIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly supplied—*
Write ts DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO las ISB*.
SYDNEY • GAO. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• GAO 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
1
m
t
#1
Ensures
KING-SIZE
PROTEAN/
King Neptune’s
ADDITIVE-FORTIFIED
MOTOR OIL
Defeats all main causes of engine wear!
imported Oakwood Mainstay
(U.S.A.).
Although few numerically,
Devons were of good quality.
T. Judge, of Ben Lomond
(N.S.W.), awarded the senior and
junior championships to Mrs.
Janet Officer’s bull Kilmorey
South Servant IX, a really gay-
parading beast, which beat last
year’s champion, Table Top
Rumble, owned by A. A.
Laidlaw, of Ararat, for the senior
award.
The champion could have
done with a little more covering
on the ribs, and the reserve was
beginning to show signs of age.
Junior reserve champion, Table
Top Hero 59, was entered by
Table Top Estate, of Table Top
(N.S.W.).
Among the cows and heifers,
Mrs. Officer continued her
success by winning the cow
championship and the junior
heifer championship with K.S.
Apricot 29; and the heifer
reserve championship with K.S.
Apricot 27.
The cow reserve championship
was won by Table Top Estate’s
T.T. Lulu 111.
Dual-purpose
Each of the dual-purpose
breeds —Red Polls and Aus-
tralian Illawarra Shorthorns —
made impressive showings.
Quality was better than last
year, although the lllawarras
still have some distance to go
before they reach the standard
one would like to see at a
national Show.
The judge, P. E. Evans, of
Lima East (Vic.), who is no
stranger to the Melbourne show-
ring, complimented owners of
Red Polls on the way in which
they had prepared their cattle.
Tops of the breed were very
good and even, Mr. Evans said.
The champion-sash fell easily
over the shoulders of the big bull
Bundaleer Bombproof, owned by
W. S. Craig, of Kerang (Vic.),
which held the championship for
three successive years before
being beaten into reserve
position last year.
The reserve championship was
won by Larkhill Imperturbable,
paraded by T. E. N. Payne, of
Kilmore (Vic.), and bred by
Brigadier G. S. Hurst.
The junior champion bull, Mr.
Craig’s B. Bold Barnallo, was
by B. Bombastic, which sired
two of the 1955 champions. In
reserve position was a nice
youngster, Burnwood Para-
mount, bred by well-known
stockman John Mclntosh, of
Merrigum (Vic.), from the
imported Bradwe.ll Peerless.
John Mclntosh and Son Pty.,
Ltd., were very successful with
their young cattle of both sexes.
Their heifers, B. Red Viola and
B. Fairyland, took junior cham-
pionship and reserve champion-
ship.
The champion cow, Plymouth
Wishful, was a very nice aged
beast exhibited by Wilson G. J.
Beer and Sons, of Nanneelfa
South (Vic.). T. E. N. Payne’s
Woodburn Robin, sired by the
famous imported Bradwell Rose-
well, was in reserve position.
The standard of Australian
Illawarra Shorthorns was a
pleasant surprise to E. J. Swan,
of Jamberoo (N.S.W.), who
judged them. He commented
favorably on the tops, and said
that, in general, females were
better than the males. However,
type was still too diverse, and
many udders were faulty—a
common criticism of the A.I.S.
in Melbourne over the last few
years.
For the fourth successive year,
the experienced Hillview Ajax
paraded well enough to catch the
judge’s eye for the bull cham-
pionship. H. Ajax is owned by
Champion Ayrshire hull, Glen Cooee Scottish Hero, exhibited by J. H. Goddard and Son of
Cora Lynn (Vic.), broke a remarkable winning sequence in this section at Melbourne by South
Australian breeders A. Facey and Sons.
A. E. Story, of Emu Creek, near
Bendigo (Vic.).
The reserve champion, Arran-
dale Emperor, entered by those
consistent breeders, Bott Bros.,
of Dingwall, near Kerang (Vic.),
came from the same class as the
champion.
Another seasoned campaigner,
Ovensdale Beauty, entered by
N. M. Newton, of Whorouly
(Vic.), won the cow champion-
ship for the third successive year.
This typey female also won the
blue ribbon in the type-and-
utility class —a good double.
The reserve championship was
won by Cornville Empress 16,
a heifer in milk, exhibited by
R. T. Hempel, of Wangaratta
East (Vic.).
Other A.I.S. breeders to do
well included H. Andrew, of
Numurkah, Dark and Gibson,
of Woori Yallock, B. A. Goode,
of Coldstream, and A. M.
Chambers, of Warrnambool (all
Vic.).
Dairy Breeds
Although fewer numerically
in some breeds, and apparently
more affected by the weather
than the beeves, dairy-cattle put
on an excellent showing.
Jersey females were better than
ever, Friesians were -impressive
throughout, Guernseys were a
little disappointing, although the
tops were mostly good, Ayrshires
were very even in an eye-pleasing
display, and the Dairy Short-
horns staged a grand parade.
R. Watson Hewett, of
Alstonville (N.S.W.), who
adjudicated, said that Jerseys
were very good as a whole ; tops
in all classes were as good as
could be found anywhere.
Females were really good, with
beautiful vessels which showed
nice capacity, type and ability to
stand up to several years of
heavy production. Winners of
classes for the best udders were
all that could be desired. All
vessels were very well attached,
and very shapely.
Both of the leading cows came
from the aged class. The
champion, F. A. Burgman’s
(Katandra) Katandra Silver-
mine V, was really outstanding.
She displayed great quality, with
an excellent head and type.
Although not the best-uddered
cow in the show, any lack in this
respect is because of the wear-
and-tear of high production over
a number of years. Later, she
was judged best dairy-cow in the
show.
The reserve champion, Bel-
gonia Lady Capture 111, by the
famous imported bull Aim High,
was exhibited by P. J. Maloney
and Son, of Tongala, who had a
v e r Y successful day in the ring
This cow had the best vessel of
the breed.
Champion Jersey bull was by
Ballarat Orphanage’s Orphan-
age Andante’s Goldfinder, a nice
rangy type which showed good
breed-quality and a nice size,
He paraded well before the
judge.
Although not so rangy or
smooth as the champion, Ber-
Art u„ r hv
ers^ e A^ ur ’ . y
G. and R. Cox, ol Murraydale,
near Swan Hill, had enough
good points to win the reserve
championship fiom a high-
quality field.
Mr. Hewett commented very
favorably on the young bulls,
the tops were as good as he had
ever seen in Melbourne.
Most classes of Friesians were
fairly strong, with very little
tail, said M. J. Parker, of
New Zealand, who was visiting
Melbourne for the first time,
Tops were as good as could be
found in the Dominion, he said.
He explained that the Aus-
tralian Friesian was slightly
larger than the New Zealand
Friesian ; in New Zealand the
animal was becoming lower and
deeper, with the accent on
udders, which were now almost
100 per cent. good.
The champion cow, Ayrdale
April, paraded by M. J. Vallence
and Sons, of Darley, near
Bacchus Marsh, would be hard
to beat anywhere, said Mr.
Parker. She displayed excellent
conformation, spring of rib and
udder. She scored over the
reserve champion, Ken Wilkie’s
(Bacchus Marsh) Brundee Lunta
Wayne, because of excellent
girth and heart-space, which
may still be developed by the
younger animal.
The bull championship was
won by the New Zealander
Totara Dandy Gallan, which had
a wonderful head, general de-
velopment and conformation. He
was exhibited by the well-known
V. J. Lamond, of Nowra
(N.S.W.), who has won many
major prizes at Sydney Royal
Shows. Mr. Lamond’s bulls
sired Mr. Wilkie’s two reserve
champions. Mr. Parker pre-
dicted a great future for the
young bull B. Japice Mercedes.
Most successful exhibitor was
J. V. Plattfuss, of Finley
(N.S.W.). The best type-and-
utility cow was the imported
Colestra A. W. Chubby, which
also won the prize for the best
five-year-old cow in milk. She
was exhibited by Salesian
College, Sunbury.
N. J. Mann, of Broxbern,
Queensland, judged the Ayr-
shires. He complimented
breeders on the manner in which
they had prepared their cattle for
the Show. J. M. Robertson’s
aged champion, Glengowrie
Jocelyn, bred by A. Facey and
Sons, of Millicent (S.A.), was
very good, especially in the hind-
quarters.
The reserve champion, In-
verurie Ann, was exhibited by
J. H. Goddard and Son, of Cora
Lynn. This excellent animal had
beautiful quality. She paraded
stylishly and had a lovely head
and coloring. She could have
been a little closer to her work,
and was only beaten by a cow
in better form.
Mr. Mann predicted a great
future for the three-year-old
heifer exhibited by Flanagan
Bros., of Melton.
The bull championship
resulted in the end of the long
(Continued on next page)


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established, ms t» Beign of
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas'* has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
t/JS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
the Paddock just after the third
race.
When I got there the first thing
1 said was, “If this gets back to
the wife, Patto, the end of the
section has been reached.”
“Quit worrying,” he said.
“Get her a mink-coat. Every-
body wants a percentage,
anyway.”
'He indicated an undersized
and horsy individual who had
been standing near by.
“I want you to meet a mate
of mine.” He gave a low whistle,
the type that I have noticed
screen-cowboys give their horses.
“Jley, Tich!”
Tich turned a small, cunning
and weatherbeaten face upon us.
He sported a soft cap with an
elongated peak, the type I had
hitherto associated only with
English squires who dressed in
Harris-tweed.
“This,” Patto said, “is Tich
Tate. He is a strapper at George
Rainbow’s stable.”
He paused, as if to let such a
significant fact make its mark
upon me. For all that,
unconsciously I felt my fingers
tighten on the ten-pound notes
that were in the trousers-pocket.
I would have been more surprised
if he had said that his friend had
just arrived from outer space.
Tich, for his part, gave no
indication that this was so. His
face was inscrutable. He didn’t
even say “How do you do.” I
had a notion that he considered
me small-fry, beneath his dignity.
I had an impulse to withdraw the
notes and count them out
beneath his nose.
“Tich knows something in
this,” Patto said. “We could
make a killing here.”
I looked sharply at Patto, and
then at the diminutive Tich.
“Off comes the head and on goes
the pumpkin” didn’t apply to
me. Tich was a stranger to me,
and, furthermore, there was the
matter of security to consider.
“What about Horse-X?” I
asked Patto coldly.
“Horse-X will carry even more
of our dough,” Patto said, quick
to appreciate my acumen.
“You’ve practically got the car
—why not pay the house off
while you’re about it? After
all, a thing like this only comes
around once a year, like
Christmas.”
I found them both eyeing me
speculatively. Tich had not
spoken a word, but suddenly
there was a change in him. Sud-
denly he assumed the propor-
tions of a colossus who had the
gift of prophecy, who understood
all mysteries and all knowledge.
“He asks the odds to a spin,”
Patto went on. “That’s all he
asks. That’s fair enough.”
Cupidity surged over me like a
wave.
“What price?” I heard myself
asking hoarsely.
“What price?” Patto relayed
the question on to the colossus,
as if he were a minor prophet
making intercession.
“Fives!”
The colossus had spoken,
though, looking at him, I could
not be too sure whether he had
uttered the word or not.
Five-times fifty, I thought, plus
the stake, less the commission to
Tich
“What price Horse-X?” I
tersely inquired of Patto.
“It’ll open at tens or twelves,”
prophesied Patto, “but it’ll start
nothing.”
I felt my mouth go suddenly
dry, as surely as if someone had
opened it and played a blow-
lamp about inside it. What
would Hilda say if I came home
in a car, with the deeds in my
pocket, and idly tossed her fifty-
quid to go and buy a hat?
When I looked around, Tich
had gone. It was as if the earth
had opened up and swallowed
him. It was also. as if the
tentacles of an octopus had been
unwrapped from around my
body.
“Look, Patto,” I said, “I don’t
know . .
“It’s the good-oil,” Patto said.
“You’ve gotta pay for info. That
little twirp is like them centaurs
—half-man and half-horse, or
goat . . . whatever it is. The
horses tell him things.”
It was precisely at that stage
that the head came off and the
pumpkin went on.
“Right!” I said. “How much
do we put on?”
Patto answered in two short
words.
“The lot!”
“The lot?” I repeated.
He nodded, “That’s the only
way to bet.”
“How much you putting on? ”
I asked. I felt that if we were
allied in this speculation, the
matter would sit easier upon my
conscience, like being superannu-
ated pound-for-pound.
“Nix,” Patto said. “I done my
bank in the first. Couldn’t
wait.”
“You what?”
“G’mon/” Patto said. • “We’ll
knock them fives off while they
last.”
WATCHING that race
brought back to mind the
agonies I had suffered as an
entrant in the donkey-race at
Gaza Ridge.
I had merely to close my eyes
and listen to the crowd’s roar to
visualise the Te Deum of ridicule
that had been heaped upon me
on that far-distant day. When
I opened them I saw our horse
round the home-turn a good ten-
lengths clear of his rivals.
“You’ve got to pay for info.,”
Patto had said.
I felt that if I could see the
strapper from George Rainbow’s
stable I would stud : him in
diamonds from head to toe. My
heart sang and I felt that
exhilaration they say comes from
breathing oxygen alone. I looked
to my guide, adviser and friend
to see how he was reacting to
this fortunate state of affairs.
“Pretty strong, eh?” i shouted.
His face was dead-pan. He
stood with feet apart, hands
thrust deep in his trousers-
pockets, unmoved by the
spectacle.
“We done our money, Smithy,”
he said.
“What rot!” I shouted. “Are
you blind?”
Almost angrily I turned away
and addressed myself vocifer-
ously to the horse that was
galloping down the straight.
Hell, how long that straight had
suddenly become!
Our horse came fourth in a
field of nine.
Patto ascribed this state of
affairs to the fact that “The
hoop had gone on him too early.
You rode a better race on the
donkey that day at Gaza,” he
added.
Indeed, I did consider this
more than likely, if what he said
was true.
“Well?” I asked.
“Let’s go,” he said.
When we got away from the
racecourse I asked him what
about Horse-X? He shrugged,
but said nothing. But I knew
that if he didn’t have to consider
me and the sorrow he had
brought upon me, and if he had
any left at all, he would have
kept on betting while there was
a shilling left in his pocket and
a breath in his body.
There was a story about
him, at the end of one unfair
struggle, offering a bookmaker
ninepence in an effort to get the
odds about a horse, and the
bookmaker had given him the
odds to a shilling—which shows
that this breed isn’t as ruthless
as popular fancy makes them
out.
The point was, of course, that
Patto didn’t give in easily.
JUST for that fleeting minute I
felt sorry for him, more so
than for myself.
He had tried to do me a favor,
in his fashion, and had asked
nothing for himself. If he was
a gambler, he was also a sports-
man. I had always known it. I
affected a nonchalance I didn’t
feel, seeking to put him at his
ease. After all, he hadn’t held a
pistol at my head and forced me
to make the wager.
“What’s the programme,
Patto? Do we go and get drunk,
as in the olden days?”
This attempt at levity had a
wondrous effect upon him. He
stopped and looked at me, some-
thing of the old devil-may-care
look coming back into his eyes.
“How’s the purse?” he asked.
I wondered how many times
he had asked me just that
question before.
I searched my pockets and
reported that I had four-pounds
sixteen-shillings and eightpence.
“Well,” he said, with the air
of a vegetable-gardener looking
upon his flooded crops and
accepting it as an occupational
risk, “they say you can’t lose all
the time. We’ve got to recoup
our losses, that’s for sure. Let’s
have a beer, a feed of dim-sims
at the Chow’s, then out to the
greyhounds.”
And, considering that one
might indeed as well be hanged
for a sheep as for a lamb, I
suffered myself to be led away.
and creditable v reign of A. Facey
and Sons, who had bred every
champion in Melbourne since
the war.
Top bulls were very good.
The champion, Glen Cooee
Scottish Hero—a three-year-old
exhibited by J. H. Goddard and
Son —was the judge’s idea of a
good-doing sire. He was a good
show bull, with a beautiful
head, good eye, shoulders, depth
and body; escutcheon, very
good.
The older reserve champion,
Retreat Pyrene’s Majestic,
entered by Flanagan Bros, and
bred by W. X. and S. G.
Muhlbach, was a nice long bull
with a lovely color.
In general, the younger bulls
were slightly weaker than their
elders, and the aged sires were
a bit plain.
Guernsey quality was some-
what mixed. The tops were as
good as ever, but general quality
was hardly up to standard. The
judge, G. McGillivray, is super-
intendent of dairying in the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture.
The champion cow, Overport
Viola, sired by the imported
Worthy Robert VIII and
exhibited by R. G. .Watson, of
Frankston, had an excellent
udder. This cow won the class
for the best three-year-old cow
in milk.
Reserve champion was Ver-
mont Pretty Polly, an aged cow
paraded by Dr. F. G. Stephens
and Son, of Vermont.
Ringsiders were somewhat
surprised to see the champion-
ship-sash placed on I. R. Fitz-
gerald’s (Nunawading) bull
Vermont Ideal, bred by Dr.
F. G. Stephens, in preference to
the classy imported Petwood
Prosperous 17, bred by H.
Coriat and exhibited by R. G.
Watson.
Beaten into reserve position
last year, Vermont Ideal was
champion in Melbourne in
1954.
As the judge, R. A. P.
Trollip, of South Africa, w'as
busy adjudicating in the Beef
Shorthorn ring on the Thursday,
the Dairy Shorthorns were not
judged until the Friday.
The breed paraded gaily in a
special grassy ring near their
pavilion. Features of the line-
ups were the smartness of the
youngsters and general condi-
tion of all entries—some were
a bit overdone.
Among the females, udder
placings of the tops were
excellent.
The champion bull, rising
four-year-old Kelmscott Gay
Lord (imp.), owned by Atkin-
son Bros., of Swan Hill, really
dominated the section. He sired
animals which won two firsts,
three seconds and one third.
These included the young bulls
Willow Park Gay Lord IV and
W.P. Gay Lord IX —junior
champion and reserve.
Senior reserve champion was
the two-year-old Drumneil Re-
flector X, owned by R. H.
Meaklim, of Mooroopna.
Major prizes among the
females were distributed more
widely. The stylish junior
champion, paraded in excellent
condition, was Riverslea Cres-
sida XII, entered by John Muir
and Sons, of Bacchus Marsh.
The aged Merridale Cherry,
bred by D. E. Cox and exhibited
by L. Hopkins, of Glenluce,
near Castlemaine, carried too
many good points for its com-
petitors, of which the best was
the reserve champion Nara
Moonbeam V, owned by Philip
Callahan, of Barwon Downs.
Mr. Callahan also exhibited
the reserve junior champion,
Nara Moonbeam IX, daughter
of the senior reserve champion.
Most successful of the other
breeders were Thomas Pryse and
Son, of Everton Upper, J. Iskov
and Sons, of * Newstead, and
Selwyn Scott, of Scotsburn.
LOWANA.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/9/’56)
General rains should occur, in a large part of Queens-
land during October, with the best falls in the southern half
of the State. Severe wind and hailstorms are likely in both
October and November.
Moderate general rains are likely in N.S.W. during
October, although rainfall should be above normal in the
Riverina, south-west and part of the far-west. Moderate
follow-on rains should occur in November, with fairly heavy
rains during December, particularly in the eastern half of
the State.
General rains should be received in the whole of
Victoria during October, and these should be heaviest in the
east-central and northern divisions, with moderate rains in
the western division.
South Australia should receive general rains during
October; the interior and Central Australia may receive
heavy rains during November-December.
Light to moderate rains should occur in the agricultural
areas of Western Australia during October, with good falls
in parts of the Kimberleys. Little relief likely in the drought
areas until February.
LENNOX WALKER.
Wool-stimulator
“L.R.E.”: A thyroid hormone
which increases wool-production
by 15 per cent, and produces an
undoubted improvement in
quality has been successfully put
to large-scale field-trials in New
Zealand this year.
Known as L-thyroxine, the
hormone was produced following
trials to find out what effect
varying periods of light and
darkness had on wool-growth.
That was back in 1951, when
D. S. Hart, of Lincoln College,
fitted three groups of sheep with
black cloth-hoods to test his
“contrast sensitivity” theory.
Hooded sheep showed no
response to two light-patterns
they were subject to, and their
wool-production maintained a
steady rate throughout the year,
From this it was seen that the
eye and the region round it must
be the doorway through which
light acted as a stimulus. To see
Whether the pituitary-gland was
t h e orgatl stimulated, injections
0 f a pituitary hormone were
g j ven a trial.
0 f the several forms of thyroid
use d, Mr. Hart selected
L-thyroxine; he tried it as an
injection at two different rates,
and in pellets containing two
different amounts of the
hormone, implanted under the
skin.
The effect on wool-growth of
one of the pellets lasted four
months, and in that time gave
increased wool-growth amount-
ing to about 45 per cent, from a
single treatment, the equivalent
of a 15 per cent, increase over
the whole year’s growth.
From that time the trials have
progressed until this year, in
field-trials, more than 1500 stud
Romney, Romney-cross, and
Corriedale ewes, were implanted
with L-thyroxine. Flocks from
Waikato in the north to Otago
in the south, were treated during
the winter.
Depending on the results—
and these are expected to be
satisfactory—it is hoped to have
supplies of the hormone on the
market by January next year.
Last year a very comprehen-
sive set of experiments was
designed to cover the possibility
of harmful effects on sheep.
Pregnant, non - pregnant and
lactating ewes were tested with
various dosages.
So far there has been no
evidence of any harmful effect on
sheep treated, although some
have been under treatment for
three years.
The important facts from the
work with L-thyroxine are that
wool-weights have been con-
siderably increased, and that
treated sheep have produced
wool of improved quality.
With regard to scourability of
the fleeces, the difference between
the wool of the hormone-
implanted sheep and that from
the ordinary flock was not great,
but showed in favor of the
treated, group.
No reliable figure can be given
on the cost of using the hormone,
but Mr. Hart thinks it will be
about 2s. a dose.


COCKLESHELL HEROES
C. E. Lucas Phillips
With a Foreword by
Admiral the Earl Mountbatten of Burma
Royal Marines in canoes smash Nazi blockade at Bordeaux.
At all booksellers - - - 20/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
HE LATEST BOOKS
A CERTAIN SMILE,
by Francoise Sagan. 10/9 (post 7d.)
THE DEAD, THE DYING AND THE
DAMNED,
by D. J. Hollands. 21/- (post 1/1)
AND THE RAIN MY DRINK,
by Han Suyin. 20/- (post lid.)
THE LAST HURRAH,
by Edwin O’Connor.
22/6 (post 1/1)
THE TRIBE THAT LOST ITS HEAD,
by Nicholas Monsarrat.
23/9 (post 1/1)
NO MOON TONIGHT,
by D. E. Charlwood. 16/- (post 7d.)
EDWARD VII and his Circle,
by Virginia Cowles. 31/- (post 1/3)
THE MAN IN THE GREY FLANNEL
SUIT,
by Sloan Wilson. 16/6 (post 1 Id.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
HAMMOND INNES
has written his greatest story
“The Mary Deare’'
available from all booksellers
COLLINS 155.6 d. PUBLISHERS
down to business, fully aware of his
role of disruptive idol: indeed, he
entitles the lecture: “These Be Your
Gods, O Israel!”—Yeats, Pound, Eliot,
Auden and Dylan Thomas. He
advances upon them with a certain
noble ferocity; no holds barred; no
pretence of merely chopping away the
deadwood —outright annihilation.
The admirer of Yeats must be sur-
prised on turning him over again to
see on how few masterpieces his repu-
tation depends. It goes further than
that: most of the best of Yeats’s poetry
is a kind of propaganda for the idea
of Yeats as a poet; his is a sideshow
into which the reader is invited, to
observe the great man, in artificial
light, give his performance. He had
an earlier and a later manner, but that
he ever threw away his “singing robe”
—no; that was only publicity. Yet
it is not true to say of his later manner:
Instead of the Muse he employed a
ventriloquist’s dummy called Crazy
Jane.
Yeats spoke well enough in “Sailing
to Byzantium” without the aid of
Crazy Jane, and in the ending of “The
Tower”:—
... .The death of friends, or death
Of every brilliant eye
That made a catch in the breath—
Seem but the clouds of the sky
When the horizon fades ;
Or a bird’s sleepy cry
Among the deepening shades.
Then again, if everything before it
was imperfect, and everything after it
a mystery, the “Mauberley” suite of
Ezra Pound had novelties of technique
and a picture of London literary life
as Pound found it that made it a
masterpiece; but it is almost the only
thing of Pound’s that Mr. Graves
doesn’t mention. The sloppy Provencai
translations, the unwanted Imagism
are notorious enough to have been
noticed in these columns; to this Graves
adds Pound’s treason and, in an essay
at the back of the book, a suggestion
that amounts to certainty, that in the
“Homage to Propertius” Pound not
only, as his friends say, gave a “free
version” of the Latin but also com-
pletely misunderstood the Latin
original.
But all this cannot deprive Pound of
“Mauberley”; and it is a little late to
accuse T. S. Eliot of “poetic bank-
ruptcy”; or to say that Eliot was only
“once however briefly, a poet” in
the haunting blank-verse passages in
“The Waste Land.” Graves may be
on better ground in suggesting that
Auden’s real talent is for light verse—
though that would be to forget “The
Ascent of F 6,” and that in the ’thirties
Auden spoke for half the youth of
England. And obviously enough Dylan
Thomas was “drunk with melody,” but
not to take “Under Milk Wood” into
consideration (perhaps it wasn’t out
when these lectures were prepared) is
hardly to see Thomas at all.
In a footnote Graves says he offered
£1 to anyone who could explain a few
hard lines by Dylan Thomas; he had
one taker, but rejected the explana-
tion for reasons given. In the same
way the reader might withhold
approval of these lectures—they are
amusing criticism, but not sound
judgment.
A poem is so rare a thing, and per-
formance always falls so short of a
conceived perfection, that it is hard to
accept the work that has been done
as all there is. Criticism like Graves’s
seems to suppose some poetry which
is technically perfect, and pleasing to
everybody. And, indeed, says Mr.
Graves, there were at this time in the
U.S. Robert Frost, E. E. Cummings,
John Crowe Ransome and Laura
Riding; in England Siegfried Sassoon,
W. H. Davies and others he doesn’t
care to mention—with whom Robert
Graves must certainly be included.
Well, take his 16 new poems at the
end of this book; in every collection
he manages to insert, among a set of
competent pieces, a masterpiece; short,
simple, clear, hard and of new and
profound perception. Here it is “The
Tenants”:—
We faced a scowl from window,
door and fireplace,
Even in the kitchen, when we first
were here ;
It cost us years of kindness to
placate them.
But now each scowl resolves into a
leer
With which to speed u 5......
He must by now have 30 or 40 things
as good; but would these, and all the
best work of the people he has named,
replace the best work of Yeats, Pound,
£liot, Auden and Thomas?
It remains to be said that these
lectures are almost incredibly learned
on such matters as the ancient Welsh
and Irish poets and bards, and that
there is a great deal of interesting stuff
about versification —for instance, he
gives, as an alternative to Eliot’s theory
of blank verse being humanised by
some casual method of drawing it out
or in, the theory that the conver-
sational style in blank is gained by
crossing pentameter (“anvil verse”)
with the old English-stressed verse of
“Piers Plowman” (“oar-verse”).
But perhaps the most pleasing thing
in the whole collection is one of the
essays at the back, on “Mother Goose’s
Lost Goslings,” in which, in one of his
best roles, as Graves the literary-
detective, he brings his erudition to
tracing a few nurseiy-rhymes to their
origins. “How many miles to
Babylon?” becomes, plausibly, “How
many miles to Babby Lond?” (Baby
Land).
There are so many perceptions in
these few pages that one could wish
he had done more; and Yeats himself
never coaxed ghosts so startlingly out
of words as Graves does out of:—
Grey goose and gander,
Waft your wings together
And carry the good king’s daughter
Over the one-strand river.
In three steps of modification and a
few pages of historical and linguistic
disquisition these lines become: —
Grey goose and ganer,
Wap your wings togidder
And bear ye the gude King’s baner
Owre the ane-strand river.
It is “a lament for James IV of Scot-
land, killed at Flodden, 1513”: and, so
persuasive is Mr. Graves when he is
mending verses and not breaking them,
that one feels it must have been.
R. McC.
Ex-servicemen's Journal
When the Federal executive of the
R.S.L. moved to Canberra recently it
was suggested that the journal of the
A.C.T. branch, “Stand-To,” might
become the League’s national journal.
This is still being considered; but in
the meantime its editors, in the July-
August issue just published, reaffirm
their policy:—
To publish first-hand accounts by
the leaders who had drawn the
battle orders and by those who, at
what Dr. C. E. W. Bean once
described as “the cutting edge,” had
carried out these orders, on land or
in the air or in the sea, or who had,
often at a moment’s notice and in
the face of dire peril, taken action at
their own initiative.
The editors claim that an anthology
of war stories of first-rate quality
could now be culled entirely from the
journal.
This current issue is typical. The
War Historian, Gavin Long, deals
with the German legend about
Dunkirk. Lieut.-Colonel R. Honner
contributes “The 39th at Isurava,” a
description of the rigors of the early
New Guinea campaign and of how
“young, vigorous and brave” Aus-
tralians (the adjectives were those of
a captured Japanese war-diary) stood
up to the pick of Jap troops flushed
with victory.
The journal, sought all over the
world by knowledgeable historians and
others, deserves a wide reading public.
Charles Meeking.
Reviewed Briefly
Tender Victory: Taylor Caldwell
(Collins). Written with Taylor Cald-
well’s usual facility, this novel starts
with the situation that arises when an
idealistic young American parson
shocks his New York parish by adopt-
ing five wild young waifs from Europe.
The story is well developed, but
declines in its second half, the conclu-
sion being both unexpected and disap-
pointing.
* * * *
The Secret in the Daisy: Carol Grace
(Peter Davies). Vague, wistful, artless
beyond belief, this featherweight record
of childhood and first love has, here
and there, touches of poetry and humor.
Carol Grace gives the impression of
drifting through life, matrimony (she
has been twice married to and twice
divorced from William Saroyan),
motherhood and this book with the
intensity of a piece of thistledown
going somewhere. If she does not
irritate she will entertain.
* * * *
Sir Henry: Robert Nathan (Arthur
Barker). Maurice Hewlett did it quite
differently, and James Thurber did it
so much better, but “Sir Henry” is
quite an entertaining and beautifully-
written excursion into mock-medieval
chivalry with, for justification, a sly
satirical jab or two on the relationship
between the sexes: Martha versus
Mary as desirable feminine personali-
ties; and work versus play as the proper
ambition of man.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 402
Across
I—lo-across puts this on 25-down
and 5-across. (3,3,3)
s—Slave hotel ruined the male allot-
ment. (5)
B—Who’s no longer taking cases for
Ease to kiss and run hack to the
South-East. (2-5)
10— He changes the color of a shil-
ling, and conceals the Menzies
greyness. (3, 4)
11— Bach devised this chest expander
on a vital part of the showgirl’s
attire. (3, 2,1, 6)
12— I am in another case, so take
them back. (2)
*4—Land with the laity. (5)
15—Hamlet address makes the dis-
orderly senor lie, for rock holds
the Spanish article. (8)
18—Deprive a girl of her betrothed
resistance of a flagrant kind. (8)
20 —This gives her my poetry. (5)
-- —Article written in a year in France.
(2)
13— Fools toss away the French
tosser’s call. (12)
26—Blem’s supporters are a
mathematical exercise. (7)
22 Recruit who is called up for a
fighting service and a driving
place after 500. (7)
28 — Edward the Painter is taxed and
scolded. (5)
29 — Spiritual heel of the public
register. (9)
Down
1 — Climates slightly affected this
plant. (8)
2 Frier folds organs. (10)
3 Ryher clued a place where some
birds breed. (7)
4 Murphy and the Queen can be
seen after the bath. (5)
5 A Shakspearian juice which can
poison the negative of the God-
dess of Youth. (7)
6 Macaulay’s works (entirely his)
are only partly Macaulay’s. (4)
7 Poultry run by Kemal. (6)
9—He is careless as a seabird
Oriental. (7)
13—There are brains in the substance
of the famous elegy. (4, 6)
16 — Measure in the outhouse attacked
by cannon-fire. (7)
17 — The underworld of the ocean
conch. (8)
19 — Inspired batting by Henry and
Edward. (7)
20 — Again warms up her food. (7)
21 — He is associated with the very
first Christmas box given to a
chartered accountant. (6)
24 —Firm half of the frozen-handed
soprano and her middle note and
laughable. (5)
25 —Business exercise for a Christian
Egyptian policeman coming to
tea. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 401


W , >XW , l ,w,v * , '*vß
wmmsm
mm
im
m
msmm
i
vs-z
KSi:::
<■■;.■.■■.■:■:v"
x*?::. - :5.v
vX-C#** 1
•**»
IiPS
xSx.vXv
•SiiiK&SSS
ft-:::-
...•*!**:•>
*
> ' vX y<y>- O-X-
--.x-
:-
y*:*:v
m
m
w ylji?:
■•Xv:-
:w
Sft¥
v.,.v>
Vs
7 % $
y>5S 3
m ?:
m
t&mrs
' '
iwirn#
g¥s^
BSE
AVX*
■
He had not noticed how bad the road edges were
... he didn’t realise the trap set for him until a
truck came around the bend. On that narrow
road he had to pull over. Then it happened ...
a sickening lurch as the two outside wheels
dropped from the road into the loose rubble
lining its edges. A wild, heart-stopping skid,
and then the final tearing crash down the steep
incline. And there it was just one more
accident caused by roads unfit for present day
traffic.
Roads are Australia’s lifeline a narrowing
lifeline ever diminishing as the edges crumble
through wear caused by today’s increased
traffic, through the whittling effect of erosion
and through inadequate upkeep. This in a
country whose roads are such an essential part
of the national economy that they carry no less
than 76% of all freight and 64% of all
passengers.
In 1955, the 13,190 accidents involving an
overturned or “off the road” vehicle injured over
8,000 people, and killed nearly 500. And a
shamefully large share of these accidents can be
laid directly to out-of-date roads and inadequate
maintenance due to lack of finance.
Roads are a national problem demanding
national attention. New Zealand, for instance,
only began successful tackling of their road
problems when they formed a National Roads
Board in 1953 and gave the Board the
necessary powers and funds.
And Australia? Surely we, too, need a
National Roads Authority to protect the life-
line upon which we all depend.
What do you think ?
CATERPILLAR’
>N°
o*
v^sN
V.%*^
\^ G
JA\V^>
•caterpillar and CAT ARB
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLA.R TRACTOR CO., O.S.A.
UIBB
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
