

•••.■.Jr-- -
/
e^
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
RUINED CITY OF ARNHEM LAND — PAGE 24
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3998
Wednesday, September 26, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
COMMEMORATING
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS,
PAINTER OF IMMORTAL, FAME
TN the quadrangle of Burlington House,
A London, the home of the Royal
Academy, is a statue of Sir Joshua
Reynolds, the great 18th-century English
portrait painter. He was the first
president of the Royal Academy of Arts,
which was founded in 1768 in a building
in Pall Mall, London, later removing to
Somerset House and the National Gallery
before arriving at Burlington House.
Joshua Reynolds was born in 1723, the
son of Rev. Samuel Reynolds, master of
a Devonshire grammar school. At an
early age Joshua showed a talent for
painting and was apprenticed to a local
artist, Thomas Hudson. For three years,
between 1746 and 1749, he lived and
worked at Plymouth, where he painted
many portraits. In order to complete
his studies he went abroad, but returned
to England and settled in London during
1752, where he remained for the rest of
his life. His painting soon brought him
renown, and he was acknowledged as the
finest portrait painter in England. Among
those he painted were George 111,
Laurence Sterne, Garrick, Dr. Johnson
and many others who could afford to pay
his fees. He was appointed first president
of the Royal Academy in 1768 and was
knighted in the following year.
Sir Joshua Reynolds still ranks as one
of the greatest portrait painters of all
time. Some fine examples of his work
can be seen in the Diploma Gallery of
the Royal Academy. In addition to the
statue of Reynolds in the quadrangle,
another looks down from above the main
doorway, of the academy. Other figures
depicted in this group include Michael
Angelo, Wren, Titian, Raphael, Flaxman
and Leonardo.
No. 317: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you-fiction, text book
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
HORSES FOR COURSES
Nobody has ever contemplated, i
Australia, the issuing of a stud-history
of statesmen, inventors, patriots
soldiers, public benefactors, authors
artists or even bookies.
Nobody has ever thought of settin
out in systematised forms the blood
lines of jockeys, even those who hav
reached the apex of success anc
achieved what seems to be the suprem
distinction on the Australian turf o:
being disqualified for life.
Nobody has ever tabulated 19
female families of the early Australia!
pioneering and given them officia
numbers. But, then, no produce of any
Australian human line has ever been
sold for a total of £268,000 and no
human mother (even of a jockey) ha
ever been known to win, 15 races ou
of 23 starts or beaten Gloaming w.f.a
Consequently, though there is no
comparable book on “The Australian
Man,” we have Mr. Douglas M
Barrie’s The Australian Bloodhorse
(Angus and Robertson). It is magnifi-
cently produced, as it should be at its
price, which is evidence enough of the
reverence in which Australians hole
what Mr. Dooley used to call “th
animile.”
There are only 15,000 of the
equine elect in Australia among a
rude and once utilitarian horse popu-
lation which has fallen from 2\ million
in 1920, to about a million today—
less than there were in 1880. There are
says Mr. Barrie, 4000-odd blood-mares
who brighten the stud-books through
being the chief actresses in interesting
events every year; and a slightly larger
number of racehorses who require the
services of about 25,000 persons to
minister to them.
Primarily a man of horses, Mr
Barri<? is on a slippery track when he
comes into the course of general
history. Apart from misspellings ol
well-known names of owners—“ Bayly”
as “Bayley”-—the early chapters are full
of anachronisms and improbabilities.
Mr. Barrie asserts positively that our
first known horse of blood was Rock-
ingham (imp.), brought here in 1799,
but he has no information whatever
about how the animal came here, who
brought it or where the records are
that show its arrival. If it did come,
it would be a fair guess, but only a
guess, that it was a D’Arcy. Went-
worth horse, Rockingham being a
Wentworth family title.
Arid thin as that presumption of its
origin might be, it would be more
soundly based than Mr. Barrie’s belief
that the mare Betty was sent out to
D’Arcy Wentworth by Lord Fitz-
william, merely on the ground that
they were distantly connected and that
Fitzwilliam watched over Wentworth’s
interests.
He declares that it is “generally
accepted” that the first American
stallion in the continent, Washington
(imp.)—our second sire of any standing
—arrived in 1802. But Washington
was obviously a Macarthur horse, and
Maearthur offered to sell the Govern-
ment a “remarkably fine stallion from
America” in September, 1800.
The chances are that Washington
arrived in May, 1800, in the Belle
Savage from Boston.
Again, Mr. Barrie places the year of
the arrival from India of the noted
Hector —a sire whose performances
inspired many a farmer hopefully to
name ftie local milk-horse’s progeny
after him—as 1806. He accepts
unreservedly the tale told in the
“Sydney Gazette” when the horse died,
allegedly at 32, at the end of 1823,
that he had formerly been owned by
Sir Arthur Wellesley, who took him
home with him from Fort William
when he returned permanently to Eng-
land, then transmitted him back to the
stud of his brother the Governor-
General, Marquis Wellesley, from
whom Mr. Robert Campbell bought
him for transfer to this country in
1806. But the fact is that the two
horses taken home by Arthur Wellesley
(Duke of Wellington) are accounted
for; that if they were not, time did not
allow of returning the horse to India
from England (where Arthur Wellesley
arrived on September 10, 1805). Hector
could not have been returned to
Marquis Wellesley’s stud at that period
because it had been dispersed. He
could hardly have been brought to
Australia in 1806, since no ships seem
to have arrived from India in Aus-
tralian ports that year.
Similarly Mr. Barrie establishes the
Macarthur stud at Camden Park years
before it was moved there. He does
not do full justice to William Cox anti
particularly Captain Piper for their
early work, or for that matter to
military officers in general for their
initiation of racing as an organised
colonial sport and for their initial
building of the Waler trade with India,
which regularly began when the 48th
Regiment was transferred to India in
1824 taking with it its Australian
horses, which were viewed there with
astonished admiration.
Also, many early stallions among
the pioneers have scant or no men-
tion. What, for instance, became of
Scotchman (imp.), sent out by Richard
O’Connor from Calcutta in 1820 to
Captain Piper in the Haldane—a “high-
bred grey Arab stallion,” rising nine,
which had won twice out of thrice as
a four-year-old in Hindustan? One of
the best-known Indian horses, he came
from the stable of Mr. Rattery of the
civil service—such a horse “as Aus-
tralians would acknowledge that they
had never seen before,” one whose
colts would find a ready market in
India if Australia cared to export them.
However, it is not this early history
to which the sportsman and breeder
will turn. His nose will be buried
among those pages in which Mr. Barrie
distils the nectar of the stud-books, the
honey of the form-guides and the balm
and promise of knowledge about prices
and successes. He will want to study
the certainties depending on blood and
“nick,” which appear, on all the
evidence, to be scarcely certainties at
all in a world in which the rival
devotees of in- and out-breeding and
line-breeding can never agree.
It is quite obviously as difficult in
the racing world to pick an incipient
racer without use of the form-guide
as it is to pick an incipient duke
without his coronet.
Many a horse has been exchanged
for thousands of guineas only to fall
down at the barrier or go to sleep
regularly in the straight. Many an
aristocrat mare matched to another
aristocrat equally decked with victories,
or of the richest and purest blood, has
breed equine goannas.
On the other hand, the most
unpromising material bought amid
derisive laughter in yearling or other
sale-rings has turned up trumps. Phar
Lap, for instance, was sold to H. R.
Telford at the N.Z. yearling-sales for
180 guineas. Yet, racing over all
distances from seven furlongs to 2\
miles, he won 36 times in 50 starts, with
prizemoney of £56,425, and then
collected $50,050 from his only
American race, thus becoming the
largest stake-winner of British Empire
origin before something poisoned him.
Shannon was purchased by Peter
Riddle from Kia-Ora Stud for 350
guineas. He was sold in August, 1947,
after Riddle’s death, to W. J. Smith
for 26,000 guineas, later resold for
30,000 guineas and finally in the
United States for the dollar equivalent
of £93,000. His winnings totalled
£84,908, and after he went to the U.S.
11 of his first crop of foals sold for
an average of over £5OOO a head and
two for £13,500 per head.
Powerscourt, along with the mare
Witty Maid—granddaughter through
her dam of Comedy King—was sold
for 130 guineas. One son alone—
Comic Court—won 28 races, with 11
seconds and four thirds, in 54 starts,
including a Melbourne Cup in a record
3min. carrying 9st. 51b. His
total prizemoney of £48,579, and his
progeny, brought a fortune. The
winnings of the principal descendants
of the romantic pair of 130-guinea
depression-period nags run well over
£300,000.
The famous David—equine, not
human—was sold for 40 guineas and
won £31,410 before he went to Boonoke
North stud. The equally famous mare
Flight first changed hands at 60
guineas, Windbag for 120 guineas,
Whittier for 250 guineas and Wolaroi,
another classic cup-winner, did not
reach the reserve of 250 guineas when
put up at the yearling-sales and was
retained by his owners to win over
£20,000. Poitrel failed to realise 300
guineas and carried 10st. to victory
in the Melbourne Cup.
Heroic won £38,062 in prizemoney,
and his offspring won £293,849.
Spearfelt won £28,173, and his stock
have won £260,000. Obviously race-
horse-owning can be more profitable
than literature as a profession, even if
just as chancy.
Australian racing is now a mature
and established sport. In its organised
form it dates back 146 years. Rand-
wick was first, proclaimed a racecourse
in 1833. The oldest country course is
Hawkesbury, in continuous use since
1832. The classic courses mainly date,
with the great racing-clubs, from round
1860. Our oldest classic race, the St.
Leger, however, dates from 1841, when
it was run on D’Arcy Wentworth’s old
Homebush course.
From then onward to Carbine,
winner of 33 races, unplaced only once,
and then through a mishap, in 43
starts, and from Carbine to the present,
Mr. Barrie tells all. as it were, from
the horse’s mouth. His work is a labor
of love, generally well-organised and
a good foundation for a succession of
future editions which will no doubt,
with proper revisions and additions
to keep it up to date, build it into an
authoritative standard work on Aus-
tralia’s most popular literary subject.
M. H. E.
AS BETWEEN NEIGHBORS
Be close in your comer; for the thing
not said
is a wise thing, worthy the grey, wise
head.
Surely the silent man saving every word
has right maps for living in his unseen
hoard.
The grave word spoken is soon proved
wrong,
and the gay word’s a feather that’s afloat
in a song ;
and he who is hollow sees life as a jest,
and laughter is the sign of him ; silence
is best.
Chain your laughter, neighbor, put a
lock on your tongue:
that the old should be merry is offensive
to the young.
The young man has forgotten, though
we remember, toys —
with the world in his pocket like a marble
in a boy’s.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
A Buff Book
One can take it for granted in an
animal-book that the bull, dingo or
brumby will be half of wild stock, half
of tame; that one of his parents, per-
haps because people like to read about
aristocratic animals as once they liked
to read about dukes and earls, will be
of noble blood; that the young bull will
play at butting and other appropriate
sports, gradually become inspired by
tender feelings towards cows and,
eventually, many.
All this time he will be harried by
unkind stockmen and, at the end,
unless he dies a noble and tragic death
by gunfire, will be seen plunging over
the mountain - tops towards some
impenetrable fastness where he may
live for ever in peace with his wife
or wives.
All this may be mildly interesting,
as in Henry G. Lamond’s Brindle
Royalist (Faber) it is. It is nice to
know the feelings of bulls.
But with so good a naturalist as
Mr. Lamond the real interest hitherto
has not been in this almost inescapable
central pattern but in the observation
of all kinds of fascinating details of
wild-life in the outback, whether it
was a kangaroo scratching its coat, a
puppy making its first attempts at
rounding-up sheep or a lizard unex-
pectedly bursting into song.
Mr. Lamond does to some extent
enrich his story in this way in “Brindle
Royalist.” There are the two inset
short-stories of the aboriginal stock-
men how Chinderah and Nellie, going
walkabout from the station amongsl
the myalls, met a fate more interesting
than death by “mulcuriy,” and how
Waukaby and Frosty would have
perished on their excursion in search
of pituri had they not providentially
found the thirst-quenching parrakylia,
or parakeelia. There is the altogether
unusual portrait of the wealthy station-
owner as sensible and even human.
There is the note that its mother’s
milk will cure eye-blight in a calf.
There are mobs of pigeons blanketing
the surface of a waterhole as they
alight on it to drink, and there is some
curious information about turkeys,
including how to catch them by placing
a ring of hot coals round their nest so
that, in tidying them away, they singe
their wings. Nevertheless, there is not
so much of this kind of thing as before;
perhaps in nobly trying to avoid repeti-
tion Mr. Lamond has forced himself
into the narrower convention of the
animal-story.
In his ending Mr. Lamond indeed
makes a surprising variation on the
standard pattern. He is always a
realist; and poor Brindle Royalist, after
many happy years among the dingoes,
the scrubbers, the rival bulls and the
ever-alluring cows, is at last caught
by the stockman who has a vendetta
against him, dehorned and emascu-
lated, and finishes his days skipping
foolishly about the station “like a big
calf.” It is not quite clear whether this
is meant to be a happy or a tragic
ending, but it will obviously be disap-
pointing both to readers who like to
identify themselves with the outlaw
hero—the chief attraction of the
standard animal-book —and to such
literate cows as may chance to read it.
But one must not, in thus expressing
regret that Mr. Lamond is not quite
at his best, fail to do justice to the
many sturdy qualities the book still
displays. It is another solid chunk of
outback life and landscape, set down
with 'he complete conviction of experi-
ence; it is a faithful life-story of a
bull; it moves along naturally and
swiftly™in fact in many ways it is
bully.
Reviewed Briefly
Starlight and Storm: Gaston
Rebuffat, translated by Wilfred Noyce
and Sir John Hunt (Dent). The climb-
ing of the six great north faces of the
Alps, from which M. Rebuffat was
never rebuffed. What it meant was.
practically, worming up vertical cliffs
polished with glassy ice, occasionally
with the additional encouragement of
a thunderstorm. The writing is clear
and fresh.
* * * *
Transformation in Malaya: J. B.
Perry Robinson (Seeker and Warburg).
A clear, plain path sometimes
enlivened by the dramatic surrender of
Communist guerrilla leaders —through
the tangled affairs of Malaya in the
last 10 years. Mr. Robinson says that
with its essentially temperate national-
ism and resistance to Communism.
Malaya, “rich, orderly, self-governing
in the partnership of the British Com-
monwealth,” could “change the whole
pattern of the 20th century in the Far
East.” The author went to Malaya in
1952 as senior information-officer.
* « * *
Atom Harvest: Leonard Bertin
(Seeker and Warburg). Beginning with
a survey of the intercontinental experi-
ments that led up to atomic fission, Mr.
Bertin, who is science-correspondent
for the London “Daily
traces the history of British and
American co-operation and-—fission;
and then comes to his main subject, the
Harwell experimental-station. There
is a considerable amount of informa-
tion about the personalities and careers
of the directors of British atomic
research, Sir Christopher Hinton, Sir
John Cockcroft, etc., a survey of atomic
possibilities in medicine, war and
industry, and no little reference to
experiments in central Australia. Alto-
gether, it is a picture of British atomic-
fission history for the man-in-the-
street, but as with a great deal of
writing for that unidentifiable person,
one suspects that it might have been
clearer if it were not so “graphic. ’


Our
i
u-
lA*Vl
d*?r
sic"
V/
mmm
m
1
■;
KSiWSif?
mm
m
■
As V.WWWfA-.-w.VAVO^
i i
■""""I
wmmmmM,
Ssp>?j§
• ••;;. .
:; • x i
I
■III
mm
,\
if*:# :,':^;*F : V
;
w
wmm :
88888888888
»
V
Exclusive to n$
by “Ernest Hitter"
Slim and narrow—our custom-tailored Ernest Hiller suits . . .
superbly styled for Spring—and Anthony Horderns’! These are
the famous “Everest” suits, styled in the inimitable Hiller manner
from the famous crease resisting Somerset suiting by Vicars. They
feature the new narrow lapel . . . ball point shoulders . . . flap
pockets, 2 buttons . . . and they’re lighter in fabric. And what
colourings! Blue, grey, char grey, char green and gunmetal. S.B.
and D. 8.; also long and stout sizes.—34-44". Priced at £23/15/-.
“Everest” suits are tailored exclusively for Anthony Horderns’.
iVew Fayrefield “Flat Top ”, 62/6
Flat Top” the new hat by Fayrefield, with the narrow brim, wider
band and neat black bow in Grey, Blue, Green, Brown, Chkrcoal. 62/6.
POSTAL ADDRESS BOX 3713,
G.P.0., SYDNEY
TftUXN IIS). ADVERTISING


The Bulletin
Vol. 77 — No. 3998
Wednesday, September 26, 1966
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth. ,
New Zealand : Natan's Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
ACTION v. TALK
SO far action is winning all the way in the Suez
Canal dispute. Nasser has given all the examples of
action. Everything he has done has been action
from the first. He was faced with a binding inter-
national agreement about the usage of a canal
built with international money, under guarantees
of which the most important one was that the
waterway should be, in perpetuity, whether in peace
or war, freely available to all shipping of whatever
nation.
Egypt had a trial run on what it could do about
this as much as five years ago, when it began to
hold-up ships of a number of nationalities—e.g.,
the United Kingdom and Sweden, which were
carrying cargoes to Israel, including tankers going
to the big refinery at the end of the pipeline at
Haifa. It even experimentally stopped and inter-
fered with a British ship which was not concerned
with Israel.
The matter was referred to the Security
Council, which played round with it and allowed
Egypt to snap its fingers at the decision. When, after
three years’ shilly-shallying, U.N.O. showed that
it might do something beyond talk and wag its
finger, all Nasser had to do was to call to Moscow
for help, and Moscow obligingly vetoed the decision
of the Security Council, although the only country
supporting its viewpoint and that of Egypt (out of
ten countries) was Lebanon.
Encouraged by this experience, Nasser then
went the limit, his ego having been fortified by the
cheers of the Bandoeng Conference and the praise
of the Moscow press. The United States and the
United Kingdom having almost decided not to lend
him a large sum of money—plus a gift of a big
subsidy—to help him build the Aswan Dam, for
which it seemed that he was as likely as not to
hand the contract to Czechoslovakia or Russia—he
suddenly seized the canal by armed force (as Mr.
Menzies has emphasised), conscripted the pilots of
foreign nationality under threat of jail if they did
not work or went on strike, and accompanied his
actions with (1) the assurance that he would fight all
hands, and that they were a lot of so-and-sos and
the scum of the earth, and (2) that he intended to
make the Suez Canal pay for the building of the
Aswan Dam.
It will be noted that he used armed force to
break a legal agreement under international law,
that he challenged the world to fight, and that his
decision involved not merely the exaction of reason-
able dues for canal usage but the levying on the
world at large of a tax to build the Aswan project.
Russia was able to applaud this scheme, because it
hoped that it would bring about war between
Britain, France and the United States and the Arabs;
the closing-down of the oilwells, which are the fuel
of industrial life to Europe; and, in fact, another
good step forward towards world Communism—
perhaps one which would create a Communist
stronghold in Africa.
The British and French Governments at once
showed signs of taking strong action; but they were
told by their good U.S. allies, who had an election
on their hands, and by every soft-shell and parlor-
Pink who thinks in line with Communism, that it
would be “aggression” to protect their rights in
an international agreement.
They agreed to confer among themselves, and
to confer with Nasser. The delegation sent to Cairo
met with the expected response, and the moment it
left Nasser issued an invitation to another confer-
ence on his own lines, with the precondition that
he would not agree to anything which did not give
him the full control of the management of the
canal.
When Sir Anthony Eden came up in the guise
of a strong man ready to join with France and the
United States in the formation of a United Canal
Users’ Association, which would endeavor to
make use of the canal and exercise its rights under
the 1888 convention, the protests of Labor and from
a section of the United States press were uproarious.
The gravest feature of the situation lies in the
facts that the Labor parties everywhere have lost
their balance and sense of national loyalty, and are
only concerned with defeating the Government in
office, and that the United States will not agree to
anything which does not forward the commercial
and financial interests of the United States.
Mr. Dulles, in fact, immediately threw cold
water on the idea of meeting force with force, if
necessary. His solution seems to be that the world
oil-market should be handed over to the United
States through U.S. Government subsidies and the
usage of oil-tankers now locked up in American
ports because there has been no work for them.
However, on the verge of the divided confer-
ence which has discussed the Canal Users’ Associa-
tion—all the real canal-users except Sweden were
for the scheme and most of the rest doubtful —
other matters have arisen. Moscow, for instance,
issued what would have been called an ultimatum
in earlier years—one which seemed to say that if
the Canal Users’ Association were to attempt to
force its way through the canal Russia would turn
the fight into a world war.
If Sir Anthony Eden had issued any such
document the whole Communist world, plus the
British and Australian Labor parties, would be
demanding his head.
The second event which affected the situation
was the withdrawal en bloc from the canal of nearly
200 of the regular pilots and a display by the
Egyptians which showed that temporarily, at any
rate, they could keep the traffic moving. On this
basis a world-wide attempt is being made to suggest
that there is no material reason to quarrel further
with Nasser; that he may well be allowed to get
away with his triumph and that there is little room
for grievance on the part of the canal-users.
In no circumstances would substantial contri-
butors to the upkeep of the canal feel happy about
being customers of a swashbuckling dictator,
boiling-over with grandiose ideas and hurling
insults in all directions at those who went the limit
in trying to help Egypt turn itself into a self-
supporting democracy until its leader began to
behave with the perfidy and violence of a Chicago
gangster.
There is, however, a bigger issue than the
mere usage of the ,canal; one which Egypt and
Russia would like forgotten and which all the soft-
shells of the press and Socialist parties would be
ready to bury. This involves international law. If
the Powers involved give way on this flagrant breach
of agreement the world may soon see other inter-
national agreements being torn-up as wastepaper.
There is (as Mr. Casey has pointed out) a
matter of principle involved on which the canal-
users and company cannot give way. Either Egypt
is a law-abiding country which stands by its legal
agreements or it is an outlaw country which should
be expelled from civilised society and with which
it is no longer safe for anybody to make a legal
bargain. How far it knows itself to be wrong is
shown by the fact that Nasser has refused to recog-
nise the International Court in the matter.
The Canal Users’ Association is obviously a
temporary expedient —the Governments concerned
have admitted as much. If they expect that Nasser
will let any of their ships go through they are
optimists. If Egypt’s immediate objective was that
the Governments concerned should take the matter
to U.N.0., as advocated by Russia, the Evatts and
the Gaitskells, it has been achieved. At the week-
end Britain and France asked the Security Council
for an immediate discussion of the Suez issue.
This should suit Egypt. If the Security Council
gives a decision against Nasser he will snap his
fingers. If the Council looks as if it will snap at
the snapped fingers Russia will merely issue its veto
and that will be that.
Still, the action may bring the affairs of both
U.N.O. and the canal to a crisis.
How to Be a Benevolent Landlord
ONE of the greatest difficulties about the housing
problem in Australia is that it is so many-sided.
There’s the problem of the really homeless; the
problem of the virtually homeless (the young people
who wish to marry but must postpone the happy
day because they cannot find a home); the problem
of those who live in furnished rooms because they
can’t find anything better at a price within their
means; the problem of the folk in “temporary”
housing-settlements who crave a home that looks
like a home instead of a barracks; the problem of
those who want to buy or build a home but can’t
arrange the finance; the problem of people living
with in-laws; the lesser frustrations of those who
live in a locality not of their own choice or in a
house they don’t like, but who have had to be
satisfied with the bird-in-hand.
Most of these problems are those of people
who want a home, or want a better home than the
one they already have; the only solution to them
is to build more homes. But there are other prob-
lems—lesser in degree, but vitally important to
those personally involved. These concern existing
homes and their owners and occupiers.
A minor but almost universal problem that
affects both landlord and tenant, as well as the
owner-occupier, is the high cost of renovations;
painting, plumbing and all such costs have sky-
rocketed in the last few years. For the average
householder the cost of having his house painted
by tradesmen represents a major financial trans-
action. The expense is, in fact, almost prohibitive,
and most home-owners now do their own painting,
thus escaping merely with the cost of the materials.
So much for the owner-occupier. But the
problem of the paint-hungry rented house isn’t so
simple. Unless the owner has time and opportunity
to do the job himself the prospect is rather bleak.
The outlay is considerable, and with rent controlled
to such an extent that its average level has risen
above the pre-war mark only one-sixtlT as far as
wages, he has to face the fact that if he spends the
money he will virtually have to go without rent
for several years. On the other hand, if he doesn’t
paint he will see his property deteriorate in value.
The State Housing Commission, the biggest
landlord in N. S. Wales, has found that the business
of building to rent isn’t all that it seems from a
distance. In recent years it has sought the
co-operation of tenants “in undertaking, on their
own initiative, such maintenance and minor repair-
work as it is customary for tenants to carry out.”
In some cases it has even arranged for tenants to
do work properly within its own province, recoup-
ing them for their outlay. But, co-operation forth-
coming or not, the commission keeps a large
maintenance force continually employed on paint-
ing and maintenance work.
For the private landlord the gulf between
high costs and low rents seems unbridgeable. But
another big landlord in N. S. Wales, probably
ranking next in order after the Housing Commis-
sion and the breweries, seems to have found a
way to bridge it.
Sydney City Council gets plenty of publicity
in its role of patron of fruit-barrows. Its activities
as a landlord are less well known. The council
owns shops, hotels, theatres, houses, flats, factory-
sites, markets and vacant land to an aggregate value
of £l2 million. The properties vary greatly in age,
value and state of repair. Many were acquired so
long ago that the original purpose of their acquisi-
tion is forgotten. Maintenance on these properties
runs into big figures; an inkling of just how big can
be gained from some details given at a recent
council meeting in connection with one property, a
block of flats which it is proposed to renovate.
When the matter was raised in the council in May
last the estimated cost of painting and renovating
was quoted at £31,520. Alderman Kyle, leader of
the Liberal party on the council, moved that it be
referred-back to the. finance committee for further
consideration; he asked for the tabling of the rela-
tive papers. This was subsequently done, and the
figures are very revealing.
The property consists of 67 flats, four shops
and dwellings and four lock-up shops. The flats
vary in size from bachelor flats of one bedroom, a
living-room with gas-stove and a bathroom with
electric heater, to large family flats with four bed-
rooms, living-room, kitchen, bathroom and laundry.
The flats could not be described as luxury
flats, but they are substantially built, with rooms
of reasonable size. The building was erected in
Chippendale in 1914 at a capital-cost of £49,667.
Payments of interest and sinking-fund contributions
ceased in 1952; they totalled £104,036. Over the
years maintenance expenditure (lighting, insurance,
rates, wages, painting and repairs) has totalled
£100,446. The Valuer-General’s valuation of the
property is £6Q,000. During the period the council
has received in rents £136,533, which is approxi-
mately £50,000 less than it has paid out in interest
and maintenance.
No one could accuse the Sydney City Council
of being a harsh landlord. The total annual rent
paid by the 75 tenants is £3742; the average rent
is less than £1 a week. Bachelor flats bring in
13s. 6d.; larger flats 165., 17s. 6d., 18s. 6d., 205..
215., 225. 6d. The highest rent is 325. a week, which,
for a four-bedroom flat, must be the cheapest rent
in Sydney.
A dissection of the sum proposed to be spent
on renovations (now increased to £32,524) reveals
some figures that will stagger anyone who has done
his own painting. The quotation for painting a
bachelor flat is £160; plumbing and other items
bring the bill to £372 17s. This, for a flat let at
13s. 6d. a week! Any home-handyman who
couldn’t do the painting for £l5, plus his own
labor for a couple of weekends, would give the
game away. The estimates for the larger flats are
correspondingly higher—for one of the four-
bedroom flats £568, including £335 for painting.
The painting is split-up into materials, £52; wages,
£205; transport, £l7; “on cost,” £6l. Anyone
interested can work out how many years rent win
have to be collected to cover the projected outlay.
The council has certainly found out how to
bridge the gulf between low rents and high costs.
The procedure is really very simple —it merely uses
the backs of the ratepayers. This years loss on
council properties is estimated at £2Bo,Out), it tne
foregoing figures are typical of its outlay the estimate
will be greatly exceeded.


THE MUEZZIN CALLS THE FAITHFUL TO U.N.O.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bombs and Armies
Soviet admissions that Russia has been
exploding A-bombs and an H-bomb have-
been accompanied by the assurance that
the Kremlin is still working for an inter-
national arrangement for the complete
suppression of nuclear weapons.
The general behavior of the Russians
is not conducive to confidence in its
assurances. It is obviously egging-on
Egypt and has stepped-up its campaign
to promote rebellion against all local
Governments in Asia which are not pre-
pared to abjure “colonialism” that is,
to cease to march with the world of
free-enterprise and become satellites of
the Communist bloc.
Examination of the military position
of the U.S.S.R. suggests deception on a
large scale, as to its intentions and out-
look based on its flamboyant claims about
defence reductions in terms of manpower.
There have been two such reductions,
both resoundingly advertised and framed
in such a way as to deceive the
unknowledgeable.
There has apparently been no con-
striction of Soviet power—merely a
reorganisation of structure to transfer
large numbers from uniformed service to
atomic and other defence-construction
and to remould the Soviet forces to make
them more adaptable to an atomic war of
surprise. Indeed, it would appear that
both the total strength and the total
fire-power of the Russian forces have
been increased.
It is known that armor is being
increased in all formations along with
automatic weapons, that motorisation of
the infantry (about 110 divisions)—the
authority is Marshal Zhukov —is com-
plete ; that heavier bombers with greater
carrying-capacity and range are making
reduction of the numbers of aircraft
possible.
Zhukov told the Communist-party
Conference last February that “we base
our calculations... .for the future... .on
the need to make use of mass air-forces,
of varied ballistic missiles, and of
different methods of mass-destruction —
atomic, chemical and biological.”
The cunning Kremlin statement of
reduction of manpower in the forces is
offset by statements by the Soviet Chief
of the General Staff (Sokolovsky) and
others referring to “massive strengthen-
ing” of the air force.
What seems to be happening is that
line-troops have been cut to provide a
bigger war-production force and a
bigger air-force. And, of course, any-
thing mentioned as happening in the
U.S.S.R. has nothing to do with what is
happening in satellite countries in
Eastern Europe and Asia, where armies
are being reinforced to make up for any
reductions in the Red Army line-troops.
General Gruenther, Nato Commander-in-
Chief, has estimated that, after the
Russian “reduction,” the U.S.S.R. will
have 112 regular divisions and the
satellite countries of Eastern Europe
another 70 or 80.
Who Assesses "Wage
Justice"?
“Stromlo” : Some of the classic poli-
tical issues in modern Australian politics
have arisen as a result of the strike of
postal workers. In particular, it is
essential that Labor should be confronted
with a demand for some clear definition
of where it stands on arbitration as against
the fixing of wages (and the consequent
costs) by employers and Parliament under
duress. The utter irresponsibility of Ward
and Co., who appeared on the strikers’
platforms shrieking their platitudes about
“wage justice” and the like, should be the
subject of cold analysis by the Govern-
ment parties, and exposed in its true and
destructive colors by every available
means of propaganda.
The alarming thing is that this kind of
false prophecy could lead Australian
workers to disaster. It is the seductive
kind of enticement at which a section of
political Labor excels, and it is designed
solely to influence votes and to persuade
the ill-informed victims of shibboleths
that their interests as “workers” are
being protected and even advanced by
those who have gained the well-paid
haven of safe seats in Parliament.
The postal workers were the victims
of their own militants. They were even
more the sufferers from the sort of dope
administered to them by some of the
Federal Labor members in Sydney. Their
own rather shamefaced attempt to hold
the community and the Federal Govern-
ment up to blackmail was bad enough in
its effects upon themselves, but it was
infinitely worse in what it did to people
outside the service, most of whom would
in other circumstances be described by
the same Federal Labor politicians as
“fellow-worker s. ”
The effects on production must be far-
reaching and serious. The effects on the
livelihood of those whose incomes
depend, in one way and another, on the
regular and prompt handling of mails will
also be substantial. Yet, with the com-
munity in these straits, Ward and his
subservient gang encouraged defiance of
the law and knowingly did their utmost
to prolong a strike which inflicted wide
hardship as well as immense incon-
venience. Fortunately there were some
cool heads which resisted this persuasion.
Their next move should be to purge
Labor of Ward and his servile clique.
Radio. TV and Children
Commercial radio-stations have still
much to answer for in their programmes
in those hours when the bulk of the
audience consists of children, according
to the annual report of the Broadcasting
Control Board. There is some reason for
apprehension, therefore, concerning the
possible impact of television at similar
hours.
The board has reported to Parliament
(some of whose own broadcasts might
be regarded as suitable only for children)
that among other things which appeared
to justify criticism in the broadcast radio-
programmes for children were that the
serials contained little or nothing of'con-
structive value, and that many contained
instances of crime, violence, fear and
sometimes race- and color-prejudice.
Fear was expressed that regular listening
to such serials would make it difficult
to develop discrimination and critical
thought.
On television the board seems confi-
dent that the standards it has laid down
will prove adequate, and that there will
be periods when busy parents may safely
permit their children to use television-
sets without fear that they may be
exposed to harmful material. The theory
is that responsibility should be shared by
the television-licensees and the parents—
a theory that still has to be proved in
practice, and in which the present radio
situation gives scant ground for confi-
dence. If the radio irresponsibles can’t
be brought to heel there seems little
reason to think that television executives,
faced with far higher costs, are likely to
have much more social conscience.
Useful Dose of Commonsense
“In the ACT”: One of the few Federal
Ministers who does not employ a “press-
relations officer” is Immigration and
Labor Minister Harold Holt, whose
speeches and statements, prepared by
himself, have a hard-hitting quality all
too rare in these days. He can employ a
telling phrase and has the ability to put
a complicated problem simply for the
education of Parliament and his other
listeners.
He dealt most effectively with Dr.
Evatt the other day when he declared
that "Labor’s” leader. was “talking
dangerous nonsense on the wages issue,”
and he went on to dispose of Evatt’s half-
baked arguments, and to reaffirm the
Government’s attitude to the wage-level
that it should be the highest within the
capacity of industry to pay.
The truth is, as Holt pointed out, that
when wages are fixed on that basis it is
both absurd and unjust to make quarterly
adjustments in them according to some
unrelated movements in price-levels, such
as those caused temporarily by a freak
season in which potatoes are scarce. It
was worse when the capacity of industry
to pay was weakened by such factors as
higher charges for freight or power- —
factors which at the same time would raise
price-levels in the C-series index and
thereby demand from industries higher
levels of wages.
Holt warned that unless the wage-
spiral could be prevented from soaring
beyond control we were in acute danger
of pricing ourselves out of the world’s
markets for all our manufactured goods
and also for a substantial part of our
primary production. This is the issue
which “Labor” has never been prepared
to face or even to acknowledge. Its
spokesmen applaud the maintenance of
local secondary industries, even those in
the inefficient class which are living on
borrowed time under the uncertain and
unsatisfactory shelter of import-restric-
tions, but they show the most careless
disregard of the need of manufacturing
industry to expand into all possible export-
markets, including those which are now
well in the view of the two major Com-
munist countries, whose industrial
potential is being increased by every
pressure-device known to despotism.
If we cannot compete overseas, then we
shall be unable to import many of the
essentials used by our own manufacturing
industries, and the inevitable results, as
Holt stressed, will be unemployment and
lower living-standards. It is time the Doc.
dropped the rubbish he fondly imagines
has some' vote-catching qualities, and
tried to find a constructive approach less
dangerous for the country and perhaps
more convincing for his hearers.
The Pioneer Millers
“C.C.”: Other board-members of
neglected, poor art-galleries no doubt will
join in bitter chorus with the East Ender’s
remark that “them that ’as gits” on the
£170,000 left to the Victorian National
Gallery by Everard Miller to buy
portraits of historical persons before
1800.
The Victorian Gallery is already well-
heeled with the income from half-a-
million left it by Alfred Felton in 1904;
now Everard Miller, who devoted much
of his life to the exclusive interests of
culture and history, has left about two-
thirds of his estate to it.
Although not much is heard of them
these days —Everard is not mentioned in
Who’s Who —the Millers are one of Aus-
tralia’s best-off families, and they pursue
their industrious activities in eastern Aus-
tralia from Miller’s Corner in Hobart to
the Queensland plains.
The progenitor was Captain Henry, a
Peninsular and Waterloo veteran, who
arrived in Queensland in 1824 as the first
commandant at Moreton Bay. He moved
down to Tasmania, and his son, Henry,
was one of the first to set out for Mel-
bourne. He became better known as
“Money” Miller, who made money in
pastoral properties, banking and insur-
ance.
One of his sons, Septimus, probably
was the best known of all the Millers. He
was a V-R.C. committeeman for 37 years
and chairman for a few years. The
Cantala Stakes on Derby Day is named
after his former extensive property on
Dandenong-road; but Everard was the
son of Sir Edward, another of “Money”
Miller’s sons, who inherited his father's
acumen in finance and wool.
The Victoria Insurance Co. has been
very much a Miller property. “Money”
Miller was one of its protagonists ; Sir
Edward was chairman, and now Lionel
Miller, one of “Money’s” grandsons, is
chairman, with Norman Miller on the
and Ian —a humble employee, he
says—secretary.
Everard, who was a bachelor, also left
£BO,OOO in the insurance company’s shares
to cousins. He was 69 when he died on
July 5, lived in one of the most attractive
houses in the land in Kooyong-road, a
quiet street in Toorak, Melbourne, and
nobody except his cousins and friends
knew when he died, so mutely did he
live.
Indonesia's Chameleon
One of the great international comedies
at present on the stage is that being
played round President Soekarno, the
soft-spoken “ruler” of Indonesia who has
been spell-binding round the world
exploiting the competition of the United
States and Russia, both of which
countries wish to free him from the
blight of “colonialism” to the extent of
embodying him in their own zones
of influence. He owes the existence of
Indonesia largely to U.S. influence after
War 11.
In his orations Mr. Soekarno gives the
impression of being the head of a great,
integrated, civilised, democratic State
writhing in the grip of a brutal and
vicious imperialism, but Tortified by the
united backing of the whole of his people.
Actually it appears that he is much
freer in Russia and the United States than
at home, where his Government lives
precariously and unconstitutionally under
tommy-gun guard, and where recently,
when he wanted to send his Foreign
Minister to the Suez conference, he had to
extricate him first from the hands of the
Army, which wanted to try him for
alleged peculation and corruption.
The facts are always muted when
Soekarno shrieks to the world to free
“West Irian” from the Dutch, as
is the fact that large areas of Indonesia,
especially inland Celebes, will have
nothing to do with the central Govern-
ment and are virtually under guerrilla
rule which Djakarta has no way of
liquidating.
Soekarno closed his tour of Russia
with the usual display of acrobatics. In
America recently he was a glamorised
actor, well served by expensive publicity
organisations, who was feted and accepted
as a thoughtful friend of American
civilisation, and treated with lavish
official hospitality and press adulation.
In Russia, he has been since feted,
cheered, offered bribe on bribe on a scale
which proves how much importance
Moscow attaches to the task of capturing
Indonesia, so as to outflank Southern Asia
and threaten Australia, natural Pacific
Ocean defence-base of the Western
nations.
While in Russia Soekarno has been
sedulous in advertising, his belief in the
Kremlin's peaceful intentions, and in
negotiating long-term credits which be
might not get elsewhere because of the
instability of both his country and his
views on contractual obligations. He
is shocked that there are “even men who
allege that the Soviet likes war, that the
people of the Soviet Union strive for
aggression, that they want to threaten
someone.” A fortnight’s study has con-
vinced Soekarno, who has “met tens of
hundreds of thousands of people” during
his brief travels, that “only capitalism”
wants war. He said in Moscow on Sep-
tember 12: “War is wanted only by those
who stand for imperialism, only by the
leaders of capitalism and Fascism, only
by the advocates of feudalism.” He
signed a joint statement with the Russians
which declared that the “existence of
military pacts did not tend to reduce
tension,” that Russia and Indonesia held
“identical views on disarmament, the
struggle against colonialism and the pro-
hibition of the use and test of atomic
and thermonuclear weapons.” He invited
Voroshilov to visit Indonesia. And the
Russians then presented him with the
Order of Lenin and treated him with more
honor than they have ever shown to any-
body save perhaps Nehru, finally telling
him that they might lend him about £5O-
- for 10 years.
Exhaling the last of the Soviet air
Soekarno left Russia and began to re-
assume his former guise as the loving
friend of' the United States, the home-
base of capitalism. He is the nearest
thing to a political chameleon the world
has seen for a long time. His antics have
divided his Cabinet, but when such
divisions occur he usually comes up in
control afterwards.
A Sportsman Passes
C. B. Fry, who has passed on in Eng-
land at 84, belonged to the period of the
British all-round sportsman and gentle-
man ; which ideal he came as near as
possible to personifying. He captained
Oxford, the Gentlemen and England (his
unpaid job as Director of the Mercury,
a training-ship for boys, kept him from
visiting Australia as a player, although
he did so later as a pressman). He was
a Soccer international, held the world’s
broad-jump record for 40 years, topped
the scholarship-list at Wadham the year
F. E. Smith, later Lord Birkenhead, came
fourth, wrote publishable Latin and Greek
verse, was a League of Nations represen-
tative and was nominated for the job of
King of Albania. An injury lost him a
Rugby Blue, but, apart from other
athletic activities at Oxford, he represented
the university in the 100yds. and com-
peted in the high-jump. And he was a
very fair boxer, swimmer and tennis-
player.
“Gar,” writing from Tasmania, con-
siders some aspects of Fry’s batsman-
ship, and continues:
Little-known is the fact that as a fast-bowler
he twice did the hat-trick for Oxford against
the M.C.C. arid was picked for his first appear-
ance with the Gentlemen against the Players as
a fast-bowler ...
“Freddie,” from Victoria, writes
“simply because I knew him; as a pupil
and Old Boy, over a long period ol
years”:
My first meeting with him, in 1919, was not
propitious; a shy 14-year-old, I was sitting m
the workroom of T.S. Mercury when there
entered a slim, middle-aged man, handsome
after the fashion of contemporary schoolboy
heroes, as illustrated in “8.0. P.” and “Chums.
He fired off a few questions about the Harwicn
flotilla, Admiral Tyrwhitt and other nautical
matters, then retired, obviously unimpressed witn
my knowledge of naval history ... History..
It had happened but a short while before,
hadn’t I read it in the newspapers? Why hadn t
he asked me about Drake, Blake or Nelson.
Years later I realised that perhaps he was hint-
ing that we are all of us making history, then
and now. , . u * -a”
Discipline at Mercury was harsh, but C-o-,,
had little to do with it. . Madam
(Mrs. Fit) was the indefatigable administrator,
the instructors were of 1890 vintage and outlook
and believed in bringing up a boy on a rope s-
end. Nevertheless, the results were, in the
main, good. * 1 . ot ,
Fry didn’t instruct us in elementary seaman-
ship. He knew a lot about .boat-sailing and his
collection of ship-models was unique, but
stuck to his last and left the nuts-and-bolts to
(<Continued on next page)


the mechanics. His informal talks were
illuminating. He once told us that he attributed
his batting success to the fact that his eye and
co-ordination were quicker than average; he
could watch a ball right on to his bat, having
made up his mind what to do during its flight.
On Soccer, he told us how the Corinthians, in
Cup-ties, upset the League Giants by a well-
planned system of low passing; no ball was
Years later, as q more-privileged Old Boy, I
had other glimpses of the man. He told me
he never knew why he was made a Commander
R.N.R. (a rank usually reserved for officers of
the Mercantile Marine) and not R.N.V.R. He
frequently said that whatever concessions he
wrung from the Admiralty for his ship were
obtained, not so much because of his recruiting-
and training-work, as because “Twenty or
thirty years ago I could play tricks with a leather
ball.” Whatever the reason, he brought home
the bacon. How he acquired President, a
decked-over corvette, by a personal approach
to Winston Churchill is best told in his book,
Life Worth Living. How he braved authority to
obtain clothing-coupons for his boys is yet
another story. .
I last saw him some eight years ago at an
Old Boys’ reunion-dinner; he was in cracking
form and convulsed his listeners with an account
of his brushes with Civil Education authorities
thrust upon him" by the Labor Government,
which declared Mercury a secondaiy school.
That C. B. Fry’s greatest achievements were
not on the cricket-field is demonstrated by a look
at the Navy Lists covering the past 30 or more
years. The number of Mercury boys who have
reached the higher wardroom ranks, all, with
one exception, via the lower-deck, is in itself
as good a testimonial as any moulder of youth
could desire.
POLITICAL POINTS
Californian scientists
Say that they have found
Eggs aged forty-million years
Underneath the ground:
There’s always been an Egg Board,
And always there will be,
While eggs remain as dear to you
As eggs are dear to me.
• •
Tasmanian Governor Sir Ronald
Cross, after hearing Premier Cosgrove
and Opposition-leader Jackson on the
pros and cons of the case for a dissolu-
tion, granted the Premier’s request. An
election will be held on October 13.
• •
Cosgrove apparently argued that the
1955 amendments to the Electoral Act
made the situation different from that
of 1914, and that although Bramich’s
defection gave the Liberals a 16-14
majority, he had been elected as a
“Labor” member, not a Liberal, and his
change of parties had been made with-
out consultation with the voters who had
put him into Parliament. His Ex. took
the safe step of referring the matter to
the electors.
• •
Replying to a question by Eddie Ward
the Prime Minister said that the total
cost of the Petrov commission had been
£129,544. Another interesting figure
would be the total cost of answering the
endless series of repetitive questions asked
by Eddie about the Petrov commission.
• •
Although the opinion of unions con-
sulted on the subject was very evenly
divided the inter-State executive of the
A.C.T.U., meeting in Adelaide, decided
to go ahead with its plan for a one-day
general strike in protest against suspension
of quarterly adjustments. Voting was
nine-seven in favor of the stoppage and
the day chosen for the demonstration of
mass stupidity is November 15. The
decision is subject to the approval of
State Trades and Labor Councils; a
majority of the six must approve before
it becomes effective.
• •
Only 61 of the 94 unions approached
replied to the A.C.T.U. questionnaire on
the one-day strike. Of these 25 opposed
it; 23 were in favor (one with reserva-
tions) ; seven were undecided and six
said they’d leave it to the A.C.T.U.
Included among those in favor were the
Leftist unions, which on principle support
any stoppage, at any time, on any pretext.
Those against the strike included two of
the biggest unions—the Ironworkers and
the Textile Workers. On the figures
quoted it can hardly be said that there
is a nationwide yearning for the strike.
• •
Menzies was reported to have told
interviewers in Washington that he was
on his way home “to deal with his some-
what battered domestic affairs.” The
P.M. says the report is a “complete
fiction,” and that he gave no press inter-
view in America in the weekend before
his return. A pity! It sounded like him.
• •
Gus Kelly has had quite a lot to say
about drive-in theatres, but he hasn’t
attempted to explain why only in New
South Wales have they been allowed to
become marketable commodities.
• •
The no-confidence motion launched by
the Opposition in the Victorian Assembly
on the “mismanagement of State finances”
(chiefly by “lowering living-standards by
abolishing c.-0.-l. adjustments”) was
reported as a surprise to the Bolte Gov-
ernment. It was also rather a surprise to
the “Labor” Opposition itself.
John Cain, the Opposition-leader, made
no attack on the Budget when it was
introduced in Parliament. No doubt
he had realised his folly in granting the
c.-0.-l. rises long since, but the Trades
Hall Council executives, faced with union
protests, including a proposal for a train-
stoppage on Cup Day, instructed him to
move in Parliament.
He was able to claim that Bolte’s team
entered office with a “Labor” Budget-
surplus of £1.3 million and had turned
it into a £4.4-million deficit this year and
an estimated £2.5-million deficit next
year. This was impressive until Bolte
recalled that Cain himself had pulled out
the plug; the deficit had been made up
precisely by the amount that Cain had
agreed to pay out in c.-0.-l. allowances.
• •
There was so little heart in the “Labor”
motion the Liberals had smelt it within
a few moments of Cain’s rising and began
to drift out of the Chamber. It is now
realised by all parties in the Victorian
House that Cain, if he had been Premier,
would have been compelled to bring
dowq a Budget very much like Bolte’s,
based on no c.-0.-l. allowances.
• •
Extract from a Budget-debate speech
criticising the estimated loss of
HO PLACE QUITE LIKE HOME
£1,721,000 on the A.B.C. and the increase
in the cost of listeners’ licences:
There was a time in the history of the
Australian Broadcasting Commission when
it was expected to-balance its Budget. There
is a feeling that the Government of the day
will balance the budget whatever the figure
is.
Nothing unusual about the comment,
except that it was made by Arthur
Calwell, whose colleagues and opponents
alike must have been astounded to hear
him preach the principle that a'Govern-
ment undertaking should pay its way.
• •
St. George Liberal Bruce Graham may
have established something of consider-
able significance when he organised a
commemoration Air Force Week dinner
in Parliament House for members of
Federal Parliament who served in British
Commonwealth Air Forces in either of
the two World Wars. Twenty-four
members of the Parliament were eligible
to attend and 22 turned up. Air-Vice-
Marshal W. D Bostock presided and the
Minister for Air and Civil Aviation,
Athol Townley, was guest-of-honor. The
show’s to be an annual event.
A passing reference to the dinner
was made in the Reps, the following
day by Supply Minister Beale, talking
about the application of price-
control in war-time to eggs. He
quoted sections of the definition of
first-quality eggs, including the stipula-
tion that the whites had to be translucent
and firm and “the air cells of which are
slightly tremulous,” and there interrupted
himself to say that this sounded like the
members who had been to the Air Force
dinner the previous night.
• •
The president of the International
Astronautical Federation forecasts that
by the end of the century men will have
landed on the moon. But is he equally
certain that, there’ll be any men left on
the earth by then?
• •
In the last Parliament members of the
Anti-Communist “Labor” party were
deadly earnest in debate and seldom
attempted any lighter touches. New
recruit Senator McManus may be a bit
different. A snippet from his maiden
speech:—
It has been said even in this Chamber
that the election of one Senator representing
our party was an accident. 1 was unable
to understand the reason for that, until on
reference to my dictionary I discovered that
the definition of “accident” is a “happening
as a result of which somebody feels hurt.
« •
The Postal Workers’ Union in Vic-
toria got hoist on its own spike. Ballot
envelopes for the union’s elections weren’t
addressed according to the regulations.
*The envelope addressed to the Common-
wealth Electoral Office carried no Vic-
toria, and the other, to the branch
returning-officer, no C.l following Mel-
bourne. So the union had to invoke the
aid of the dailies to remind members to
re-address correctly the envelopes. The
capitalistic press duly obliged.
• •
Abel Tasman, first man to cross the
sea which now bears his name, took just
under two weeks for the crossing from
Tasmania to New Zealand. Last week a
Vulcan bomber did it in just under two
hours. Besides its speed its crew had
one slight advantage over Tasman. They
knew where they were going.
• •
“Wusslean”: Pentridge, that conserva-
tive old Melbourne -establishment where
the warders, until a few months ago, still
used 82-year-old Winchester rifles to
guard -their guests, is in trouble again.
This time it’s handcuffs ; after a prisoner
slipped his bracelets and escaped while
being taken to the law courts, it was
stated that the fixed-size type used by
the warders was 50 years old, and rela-
tively easy to get rid of unless they happen
to be a perfect fit. Use of the modern
ratchet-style, adjustable for any size of
wrist, is being considered.
• •
On Friday the N. S. Wales executive
of the A.L.P. withdrew the charter of
the Coogee branch and expelled three of
its members for “disruptive tactics.”
More expulsions are expected, following
a warning that good “Labor” men mustn’t
associate with the rank-and-file rights
committee.
• •
Bolte told the Vic. Assembly that his
abolition of automatic quarterly adjust-
ments was “an honest attempt to stabilise
costs” and that the alternative would have
been to increase freights, fares, gas- and
electricity-charges and timber-royalties.
Cain and Co., who when in office yielded
to Trades Hall pressure and granted the
adjustments with reckless disregard for
their effect on State finances, are, of
course, opposing the abolition. If they
troubled to take a glance north of the
Murray they’d see that Cahill, who is
following the policy they are urging on
the Vic. Government, has had to increase
all the charges Bolte mentioned.
• •
Dr. Burton, who had been nominated
for the position of northern organiser
for the A.L.P. in N. S. Wales, withdrew
on Friday before the ballot was taken.
Apparently the light glowed warningly.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: There may be a
fortune for somebody in the salvaging
of the war-time wrecks in 11 ports and
harbors around New Guinea and New
Britain. The announcement that
Japanese were buying scrap-iron in
Tasmania coincided with the inviting
of tenders by the N.G. Adminis-
tration for the salvage rights to “war-
surplus materials below the high-water
mark” in Kavieng, Samarai, Finschhafen,
Rabaul, Milne Bay, Aitape, Vanimo,
Wewak, Cape Endaiadere, Hansa Bay,
Lorengau, as well as on the coastline of
Muschu and Kairiru islands. Those names
will sound like a roll of drums to many
Australians. The Administration says
that in Rabaul harbor all the material
is completely submerged, with buoys
indicating the location of a few wrecks;
others can be sighted only from the air.
It is believed that salvage material is
plentiful, and that most of the wrecks
are at workable depth. At Wewak the
superstructure of six Jap vessels can be
seen above water, and at Finschhafen a
diver employed in raising a floating dock
has reported sighting what appeared to
be a considerable quantity of copper
sheeting and miscellaneous machinery. In
addition, “unconfirmed reports indicate
there are many thousands of tons of
shipping on the seabed in a field previ-
ously untouched,” and there is the possi-
bility that some of the vessels “might
have been carrying cargo of value when
they were sunk.”
• •
Indonesian tea is steadily cutting into
the Australian market at the / expense of
Ceylon, which held a virtual monopoly
for so long. Java tea sold well here
before the war, and its quality and price
apparently again appeal to wholesalers.
In the June quarter of this year out of
total imports of 12,968,1291 b., valued
at £3,014,384, Indonesia supplied
3,'559,7301b. (£777,962) and Ceylon
7,045,1331 b. (£1,755,693).
• •
vSince the end of the war Japan’s popu-
lation has increased by 18-million; it
now exceeds 90-million. In another 14
years it is expected to reach 100-million.
These and other facts are contained in a
thought-provoking statement issued by the
Japanese Embassy in Canberra. Japan
is third in population density with 243
persons to the square kilometre, following
Holland and Belgium, but the annual
number of births is falling—from
2,718,000 in 1947-48 to 1,754,000 in
1954-55. The figures should make us
ponder a little and should be studied by
advocates of a drastically reduced
migration programme.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“/-'OUPLE of our Scouts took a box
to Taylor-square on Saturday and
started cleaning shoes,” said our Bob-a-
jobber. “They weren’t doing so well at
first, and a New Australian came along
and said he used to be a Scout in
Czechoslovakia and gave them a quid.
They made four-quid on the day.” He
resumed work on the knife-and-fork, Bob-
a-jobbing needing considerable stoking-
up. “They had a big sign,” he continued,
“and a conductor saw it and threw them
two-bob from his tram.” —“Poppa.”
+X+
“Dorian”: She got talking to the taxi-
driver, and veered the conversation
around to music. “Fond of music?” he
inquired. “Yes, Beethoven and Mozart.
I’m afraid I’m a bit of a square. Although
Ido like Johnnie Ray.” A moment’s
thought; then, “Sister, you’re not square ;
you’re octagonal!”
❖ ❖
“Nunk”: As a constant reader of Mr.
Alexander Macdonald’s radio-column in
the Sydney “Telegraph,” I must say that
in his remark on the opening of the
“Telegraph’s” television-station that the “I
Love Lucy” session would “either grow
on listeners or wilt” he put his finger
right on the spot. ✓
❖ »x« ❖
“Old Mac”: And now old-age
pensioners are well on the way to owner-
ship of television-sets —they already have
the promise of reduced licence-fees.
"Coward!"
“Willpar”: The Spit (Sydney) Diggers’
Swimming Club received a letter
addressed “The Sput Giggers’ Swimming
Club.” What do they swim in at that
club?
*❖ ❖ .
“Sir Jay”: The argument' was about
religion, and had reached the betting-
stage when I arrived. “Yah, y’ wouldn’t
know the first thing
about it! Y’wouldn’t
even know the Lord’s
Prayer.” “Wanna
bet? Betcher quid,”
offered Ossie.
“Right,” agreed
Snowy. “You hold
the stakes, Jayie.”
This I did, and then,
after much clearing
of throat, Ossie
started: “The Lord
is my shepherd I
shall not want....”
Snowy’s mouth fell
open at the first
words. “Cripes, ’ow
unlucky can yer be!
Fancy him knowin’
that! I’d ’a’ bet me
shirt he didn’t even
know how it started.
Pay him, Jayie.” I
handed over—and
not one of the other
five men present
offered a protest.
“Old Cynic”: Saw an advertisement
the other day for a “casual waitress.”
Have I been unlucky, or is there any
other kind?
*!♦ *l*
“Magpie”: A wife on the verge of a
major operation harked back to Aunt
Bertha, the foreteller of family doom.
“You see,” she said tearfully, “Aunt
Bertha used always to tell Mother that
I would never live to make old bones!”
The husband was earnest and comfort-
ing: “Well, just look how wrong she
was!” And being a woman, and con-
trary, she cheered-up.
❖ ❖
“Griff.”: A group in Melbourne is
campaigning for a “cultural university.”
*X* ❖ +*♦
“Weff”: “And don’t think,” said the
better-half, “that I’ve forgotten your
behavior at Walter’s wedding.” “Yes, yes,
I know,” I said; “I fell into a goldfish-
pond.” “Nor have I forgotten,” she con-
tinued, “what happened at Shirley’s
christening-party.” “I remember,” I said ;
“I fell out of a window and broke two
ribs.” “And I haven’t forgotten the way
you carried on at Uncle Tom’s funeral,”
she sniffed. “I’d have been O.K. if your
Uncle Charlie hadn’t brought along that
bottle of rum,” I countered. “And not till
the day I die,” she went on, “shall I for-
get you and Marjorie’s wedding.” “Hold
hard, woman,” I protested ; “I never went
to Marjorie’s wedding.” “No,” she
snapped. “You didn’t. You let me go
alone. You —you were in bed — with a
hangover.”
% * *
“Vidi”: Leaving a press-conference
with Sir Harry Broadhurst, chief of
R.A.F. Bomber Command, I was more
anxious than ever to inspect the visiting
four-jet delta-wing Vulcan bomber. He
had talked of its fantastic speed, electronic
defence against radar-detection and other
wonders. I hurried from the press-room
to the tarmac. The Vulcan crouched
uneasily on its 18 wheels. Powerful yet/
supremely graceful, it seemed to have
been stopped in flight by a high-speed
camera. My poetic reverie ended
abruptly. A mechanic sat on a wing
boring holes with a hand-drill. Beneath
“ Actually , only the ashtray has been used in this one."
the wing, which appeared to be patched
in several places with sticking-plaster,
another mechanic removed a panel and
pushed a Pepsi-cola bottle into the
cavity. A valve was evidently released, as
clear liquid filled the bottle. British
ingenuity, or does the maintenance-
manual prescribe Pepsi? A crew-
member was questioned about the hair-
raising way in which the plane had been
landed at Mascot —tail well down, nose
up—a two-point landing instead of the
expected three-pointer. “Pulls up quicker
that way,” he replied. Why hadn’t they
come in horizontal and released the tail-
parachute as a break? “What! And
spend half-a-day packing the thing back
into the tail?” Total window-space of
this hydrogen-bomb carrier equals the
square-footage of Mum’s kitchen-window.
»;« *>
“Kangarooster”: On Sunday,
September 2, when the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers made its 28th annual
pilgrimage to the statue of Henry Lawson
in Sydney Domain, someone recalled
that Henry’s niece, Valerie Larsen, was
the outstanding model of her day, round
about 1920. Painted by figure- and
portrait-painters her gorgeous form
adorns the walls of many National Art
Galleries and private collections. She
had the same brooding eyes as her famous
uncle, and they could also light up like
stars.
♦♦♦ *■ ♦>
“J.D.W.”: One of a few N.Z. hostelries
lately freed of tariff-control, the Hotel
Nelson in the sleepy little city on Tasman
Bay has bumped-up its charges. They’ll
be worth it if the celebrated apple-pies
are still on. They hit the table in big, old-
fashioned and oven-stained pie-dishes—
•the real McCoy deep apple-pies with
flaky pastry just like Mother made. On
sports-day in Nelson, when the pub is full
of proud parents up (or down) for Nelson
College’s big celebration, no event on the
programme gets a better reception than
the scurry of lads into the pub. for dinner
to be first in for a whopping help-yourself
share of that pie.
* * *
“Nobs”: Titles should be vetted back-
wards, sideways and upside-down.
Dorothy Parker’s remark that “ ‘The
House Beautiful’ is the play lousy” was
matched by a Sydney Sunday film-review
of “The World Condemns Them”—“So
do we,” said the critic.
♦X* & ❖
“H.A.L.”: Years ago, llarry Mugg ran
the Institute Library at Wirrabara (S.A.);
transferred to Georgetown, 22 miles
away, he ran the library there. Always
being asked to recommend books or to
tell borrowers “what this one is about,
he hit on the idea of typing a brief
synopsis and pasting it inside the back-
cover. The subscribers voted it a great
scheme. Mugg began to wonder why the
publishers didn’t print the same sort of
thing on dust-jackets. He wrote to one
British publisher after another. One
said it would be “too expensive.” Another
thought it would “deter people from dis-
covering the contents of the volume by
reading it right through.” Finally one—
unless my memory is at fault, it was
Hodder and Stoughton—decided to try
it. Then all the rest lost no time in
copying the idea, and ever since then
practically every book" published has
something about its contents, and perhaps
a few words about the author, printed on
its dust-jacket.
“Floreat”: A snapshot I could add
to “MacHoots’s” Suez collection (B.
29/8/’56) would show two dinghies
moored to the canal-bank, one named
Wallaby, the other Billy Hughes. They
were there in 1947 and looked in pretty
good shape, though Billy Hughes, at
least, would almost certainly be a War
I christening. Wonder if the canal will
ever be graced by a Bob Menzies?
„ G Was particularly interested
“MacHoots’s” bollard - squatting
G who recalled the , first East
A ™? a ’ l ever set on> As we
approached the Mombasa wharf his
5 hTwas
simply leaning. When we were swallowed
by the Customs ages later he was still
s j mp jy leaning.
‘ ' ' ' '
“Hoppy’ : When Mac Hoots des-
cribed the dream of a ship speeding over
land I feel sure he must have been a
sailor. After a long wait for the Trades
in the South Atlantic, our barque at last
dipped bows to the albatross winging
south and set her course for the other
Cape. The crew thought of shedding oil-
skins, and cheered the announcement
that we were changing to Swedish day-
watches, with the longer spells for sleep.
The dreams came with the passing of
four-on-four-off; dreams of the ship
under the lot, fairly scooting up the bay
and into the streets. The
- £eature of the free . watch fanta sies
* not one of the cosmopolitan
dreamers {aile(J wave at a famjliat
face ashore>
nor did the ship cease her
kss tlu-ough built-up areas to
joi * in attractions there,
......
* ’ „
Transporticus (Singapore): M -
Hoots_ must have been too long in t
sun if he saw British soldiers playing
cricket alongside the Suez Canal not far
«P from Aden”; he probably mean
Suez. Many people fail to realise that
they cQuld 0 £ themselves there jn
that heat, 115 degrees, with less distress
than they would here in Singapore in 85
degrees, because of the extreme dryness
of the desert. My two most vivid
memories of the ditch are of H.M.S.
Enterprise with Haile Selassie and
entourage in a tent on the quarter-deck
back in 1936 and of the mysterious
barrage balloon. This heaved in sight at
dusk moving steadily in the opposite
direction to ours, and when it came
closer we saw that it was either towing
or being towed by an extremely small
airman. They vanished into the dark-
ness astern before we could decide t other
from which.
OPEN-HEARTED
“In November Dr. H. Bahnson, the American
surgeon, will demonstrate the ‘open-heart
operation to Sydney surgeons, by which the
■heart is isolated from the blood-flow.”
“Dr. Bahnson,
' Do your stuff;
I’ve been romahnson
Right enough;
My Baby cut me to the heart—-
Cut again, and do your part!”
“ Let’s operate • . •
7 Say ! What goes on ?
/ grieve to state
Your heart is gone:
It happens to a lot of chaps—
Who stole it, sir ? Your wife, perhaps ?”
“Perhaps I tried —
Such hide-and-seek!
He had a hide,
He had a cheek ;
He had a nerve, all right, that lad,
But a heart is what he never had!”
And if you’re clever,
And if you’re smart,
Lose or never
Have a heart,
And whether you burn, or whether you
freeze,
Look what you’ll save in doctors’ fees!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AS for some time a small Russian con-
gregation worshipped in a Pres-
byterian Church of which I was the
minister I may suggest an answer to the
question raised by “B. A. Ker” (B.
22/8/’56) about a decorated egg upon a
grave. At Easter members of the Russian
Orthodox Church greet one another with
colored decorated eggs, the gifts being
accompanied with the words “Christ is
risen” and, in reply, “He is risen indeed.”
Thus the egg upon the grave is symbolic
of a belief in the resurrection. The
design upon the egg “similar to the cross
of Lorraine” is the emblem of that
church. This “Cross of Christ” has three
beams ; two horizontal, one sloping. The
highest, and small, arm is for the super-
scription ; the next for the outstretched
arms; and the third, slanting, for the feet
pierced by one nail and so pointing down-
ward in the one direction. There is an
example of this cross surmounting the
dome of a church at Strathfield (Sydney).
At Easter, as an illuminated addition,
are, to us, the letters “XB.” As these
stand for “Christ is risen,” “B. A. Ker”
may have seen them on that grave.—
“Biridja.”
*3 *3 *3
“Front Counter”: During the postal-
workers’ regulation-strike a newsagent at
a beach-resort phoned The Bulletin
and comnlained that his supplies had not
arrived in the regular mail. After a
check, “They were dispatched as usual,”
said the circulation-manager ; “your best
bet’s to complain to your postmaster
there. ’ “But I am the postmaster here!”
declared the newsagent.
'Sackville”: The regulation-strike must
have proved irksome to at least two of
our postmen, but for completely diverse
reasons. “A” would detest it because he
is a cheery, obliging chap who obviously
likes his job, regards his clients (if that's
the word) as friends, and aims to please.
Nothing is a trouble to him, and his
“Nothing today, love,” to a waiting
toddler, is almost an apology. “B”
wouldn’t like the strike: it’d mean extra
work for him. To carry out the regula-
tions he would havfe to give two sharp
blasts on his whistle—pretty tough, that,
on a bloke who hitherto hasn’t been able
to muster-up enough energy to give one^
“Ladimac”: Not only are the stores
displaying Christmas-cards, but at one
place I saw New Year greetings. And
now that the post-office is succumbing
to regular attacks of virtue, maybe it’s
a good idea to do your Christmas posting
early.
♦3 *l* *3
“Sarj”: “The Bloke” may have made
his debut on L.P. Microgroove (B.
25/7 /’56), but Ned Kelly’s still one up.
Beard and all, Ned has just made his
appearance in a natty set of “Early
Colonial” wall-plaques put out by a
Victorian potter.
♦3 *3 *3
“Cooroy”: Further to memories of
balance-days in banks, it was customary
at one Brisbane bank, long, long ago, for
several senior hands to delegate their
duties at 9.30 p.m. The four-wheeled
horse-cab they hired deposited them at
Adelaide Annie’s maison. From long
experience this lady knew the annual
balance-dates of most Brisbane banks.
*3 *3 *3
“Old Mac”: That strong tang of carton
(B. 5/9/’56) is not entirely new: it is
several years since I found that it ruins
the flavor of N.S.W. Railways tea, served
in paper cups. As a small boy I had often
heard, “As limp as a bit of chewed
string,” so I chewed a bit and found out,
not only what it looked like and felt
like but also what it tasted like—
Railways tea!
i <3 *3 *3
“Tabba”: Went to the office of a pub in
Bowen (Q.) and asked for a plug for the
hand-basin in my room. Was informed
that plugs are not provided in any of the
rooms. Found they were right, too.
Not even a plug in the bathroom.
❖ ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: The modern wail against
colonialism always reminds me of India
at the end of War I. At a large tennis-
party given by some members of the
military community were a number of
young Indian men —all obviously de-
lighted to find themselves included in
this atmosphere of “colonialism.” One
of them talked unceasingly about the
things he planned to see and do on his
next long holiday, when he would be able
to go home (meaning England) again.
*3 *3 *3
“Griff.”: On the morning of the fifth
day of the final Test a Melbourne daily
devoted sin. to the match, well down
on its back. page. The same page
reported that the Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation lost £5OOO last season. The same
item mentioned that the present Test-
tour is down £A20,000 on takings com-
pared with 1953. Cricket enthusiasts
will blame the weather, of course ; more
mordant observers may consider that it’s
just not news when Australia loses; but
the day may not be far distant when the
Ashes will become a myth doubly-
certified.
❖ ♦> *3
“Stromlo”: With plans in hand for 18
expeditions sponsored by the Royal
Geographical Society, mostly by under-
graduates, there will be many echoes
“We just Want to see how it Would be for breakfast in bed."
of the speech by Sir Gerald Templer,
Chief of the Imperial General Staff, at
the society’s annual dinner in London.
He asked:
Is it too much to hope that some moun-
tain, desert, river, “abominable snowman”
or his equivalent may for ever remain
unknown —a legend, undiscoverable, a
chimera like the lost continent or the sunk
treasure of Tobermory? How dull the
world will be when there is nothing left to
conquer or to map!
<♦ *3 ❖
“Eureka”: Housewives complaining
about the high price of potatoes think
nothing of paying the same price for a
pint of beer as they would for a pound
of spuds.
♦3 ♦♦♦ ❖
“Seahawk”: Many and varied are the
excuses put forward for the all-too-
frequent day’s absence in industry. The
most overworked begins, “The wife took
sick ” I came across a little more
originality yvhen one of the stokehold
brigade excused a day’s absence by
explaining that he had to take delivery
of a new car.
❖ *3 *l*
“Doric”: A striking-looking woman
sat opposite me in a King’s Cross cafe
and to my surprise she ordered a meat-pie
—it seemed hardly her type. Then, when
the pie arrived, she ate the whole of it
with a knife alone ; I suppose striking-
looking women are allowed to do
striking-looking things.
SOLID COMPENSATION
“What those born under Leo hate is upsets,
and this week is full of them. Basically, you
have good stars all this week except Friday.”—
'‘Sun-Herald” astrological blurb.
Oh, Leo-men, you’re strange, unique;
Concord and amity you seek.
Yet such, by astral order, are denied
you.
For one whole week except a day
You are condemned to face the fray,
Your works continually churned-up
inside you.
Crisis and strife should be your lot,
Your peace of mind to pieces shot;
The sharpest thorns should thickly stud
your rose. You’re
Well, it would seem, in Fortune’s gun.
And yet, when all is said and done,
Need this effect your serious
' discomposure ?
You can afford a real good laugh
If accidentally you should quaff
Some arsenic, or if your lottery-ticket
Just misses the six-thou. by one,
Or if, one dark night, you are done-
Over by thug who wields a heavy
picket.
And even should your wife shoot-through
With friend and all your savings, you
Really have little cause for mad reviling.
To get perspective in its place,
Just play your Zodiacal ace:
That, basically, your stars on you are
smiling /
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
IT'S ALL YOURS
IT seemed I had ceased my usual
vigilance for a few seconds only, but
the file 844/1951-Rattle was on my desk.
After years in the department I knew
how hopeless it was to ask who put it
there.
File 844/1951 was one of the
notorious ones. You settled down to
read the pages of the years, but there
was no understanding to be found there.
Worse, there was a terrific job seemingly
to be done if you should get to the
bottom of it. A country solicitor was
involved; someone had sent for a
signature; there were outstanding
“requisitions”; you could not diary it
further ahead. There was everything
thtere but finality.
The only way out was to get rid of
it. No use taking it to the distributor of
the work, he would only ask, “Why,
isn’t it yours?” and that would mean
getting a real understanding of the
wretched thing. No; just search the file
for possible initials or references to
incriminate some character. As you rise
from the chair with the offending papers
in your hand you can feel the defences
going up.
A newcomer caught with a dirty file
will endeavor to drop it carelessly on
an absent one’s desk. But the absent one
will rise from the dead if necessary to
catch it before it lands on his desk.
You can rule Joe out. Joe has a
disarming and sadistic technique. It
goes like this:
“Joe, I think you’re concerned in this
—there is a Customs query in nineteen-
fifty-three . .
“I’m pleased you brought that to my
notice. There is something I’d better
follow up. Just leave it with me.”
You are hardly five steps away, walking
on air, when he calls:
“Just a moment. No, I’m sorry—l’ve
finished the Customs matter. Sorry I
can’t help you.”
You know he hasn’t finished the
Customs matter, but you would have to
read the file to prove him wrong.
Hope springs eternal (and it needs to)
as you pessimistically approach Miss 8.,
a spinster of some 40 years.
“Miss B.”—and as you recoil from
the stony, vicious stare you wonder if it
would not be better to read the thing—
“there’s a letter of yours here, and I
don’t think it’s answered.”
“Not my letter.”
“Your initials are on it.”
“Yes.”
The tone of her reply would have been
the same if you had said her initials
were on the Three Sisters in the Blue
Mountains.
use putting it among the files of
a sick absentee. The returning one
would unerringly go to the foreign
member as if there were a red flag on it,
and extract it. Once an ambitious boy
could be saddled with these files, but
nowadays he wouldn’t fall for “If you
make a good job of this y0u’11.....”
It was sheer desperation that made me
do the caddish thing. I approached a
new and youthful member, for some
reason or other brought in from the
field. I rushed up to him in a friendly,
brisk way.
“Mr. Laney. One of your matters.”
(Definitely). “I don’t think Mr. Jones”
(departed) “quite closed it off. Anyway,
it’s just a matter of marking it off. Just
read through it briefly to make sure.
Right.”
The scornful look on Miss B.’s face
was almost more than I could bear. And
I didn’t feel really good about it. But
I was able to make it up somewhat to
Laney. In a seniority way my opinion
carries some weight. I put in a big
word for Laney with the boss, and he
listened very carefully. I was to
go off on my leave with a clear
conscience.
Breezy, sunburnt and happy, I went
in to see the boss when I returned.
“Laney? Well, I relied on your
opinion entirely when they wanted a man
in ‘M’-section. Oh, before he left he said
everything was up to date except the
Rattle file. Here it is—he said you knew
all about it and it only had to be marked
off.”
An office is a jungle, and I’m only a
gazelle in it, even at my age.
S.C.J.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Royal Vic. Aero Club has got itself a
crackerjack as manager—Paddy (Group-
Capt. Patrick George) Heffernan, who
retired from the R.A.A.F. last week with
4000 hours up in 78 types of aircraft.
His last war-time post was as C.O.
No. 27 Operation Training Unit in East
Anglia ; in a collision one foggy night, he
bailed-out into a field, and when daylight
arrived a farmer, looking for the German
parachutists who had reputedly arrived
during the night, approached him with
clear malice. As soon as he was within
earshot, Paddy, despite a serious injury,
shouted, “Don’t be a bloody fool! Get
me a cup of tea.”
He graduated from Duntroon (after
The King’s School, Sydney), immediately
got attached to the R.A.A.F. and was in
No. 7 Flying Course ; won the A.F.C.
for air-rescue in the Kimberleys, and
turned-out airmen in many parts of the
Empire during the war.
• •
Ivar Thomaeus, manager of the Drillco
Division of the Atlas Copco group of
companies. With headquarters in Sweden
and subsidiaries all over the place, spends
a lot of time travelling. His concern’s
mining-equipment is used in some 90
countries, including Australia (where it
helped make the Guthega tunnel on the
Snowy), and Atlas intends to start manu-
facturing here next year, on a. site as yet
undecided. He’s been looking around
mining parts of the country, and left at
The Bulletin office a visiting-card of
Swedish steel, .0024 in. thick, with some
interesting points about industrial develop-
ment. He’s 38, and has five children, aged
4, 1,9, 11 and 13. Goes in for yachting,
fishing, tennis, skiing and hunting—
moose, bear, deer and elk in his home
part of the world and big-game in Africa
and India. An enviable life; but there
must be a high degree of efficiency behind
it. '
• •
“Sir Jay”: That almost legendary
character “The Man Ouside Hoyt’s”
(Melbourne) has announced his retire-
ment. His name is Charles Fredricksen ;
he’s been there since 1908, and hb can
remember when beer was 3d. a pint. My
own memories of him go back to when
Mary Pickford was starring in “The
Little American,” when I first heard his
“Hurry, hurry, hurry!” and was fas-
cinated by his spontaneous wit as he
tried to persuade passers-by to enter the
theatre in Bourke-street. Often the free
show outside was much better than the
film being shown inside the theatre ; he
knew how to get and hold his public—
perhaps his expertness in legerdemain
had something to do with that. For many
Bourke-street will never be the same
again.
• o
Herewith Rex Johnston, managing-
director of Marine Contracting and
Towing Co., Cairns (Q.), who, since 1953,
has shipped 13,000-head of cattle from
the Peninsula to Cairns in his L.S.T.
Wewak. On the return voyages the queer
craft takes 2000 tons of supplies yearly
to out-of-the-way ports on the Peninsula
and Gulf, and has recently shipped 50
tons of drilling-equipment for the bauxite
project.
Son of a Mareeba sawmiller, Rex
REX JOHNSTON
spent most of War II building small
craft, barges and dry-docks at Stratford,
Cairns; he also served in the Merchant
Navy. “Operation Seabeef” starts the
New Guinea run in November.
“Pip Tok”: Education under the
Colombo Plan has been proving a two-
way traffic in Perth. During the four
months he has been at the Westralian
University, 21-year-old Narcisse Khoeun,
a slim Cambodian with a smile that is
childlike and bland, has been teaching the
locals quite a lot about table-tennis. He
has already won tournaments run by
Fremantle and the City of Perth, and
annexed the State championship. Critics
describe his grip as orthodox, but his
backhand work is devastating.
• •
Home from a busman’s holiday in
Canada, George Eric Maxwell Keys,
principal of Scotch College (W.A.) since
1947. Abroad (for the third time in
recent years) he spent a full academic
year, under a Carnegie Travel Fellow-
ship, as research-worker, teacher and
post-graduate student at Ontario College
of Education. He also travelled widely,
by aid of grants from Canada and the
U.S.A., researching in educational-,
social- and vocational-guidance for
young students, and visiting leading
schools in the U.K., Europe and India.
He’s keen on exchange between countries
of both teachers and information, at the
secondary-school level, and says the
exchanges should include material illus-
trating sports, hobbies, arts and crafts.
His own education (primary, secondary,
tertiary) was acquired in his native New
Zealand.
• •
“Wandana”: I understand Mrs.
Dorothy Catts, of Sydney, is writing a
biography of King O’Malley. She might
uncover some good stuff here
in Tasmania. The “King” was
a colorful figure on Tasmania’s
West Coast before he became
one on the larger stage of
Federal politics. Old hands of
Zeehan remember how the
bearded adventurer strolled into
the town when mining was in
full swing there, cast his eye
over the landscape and decided
to stay. There were 18 pubs
in Zeehan then, and the steps
of one of them was a convenient
platform for him to harangue the
miners. When interjectors
became troublesome King’s coat
came off for a round or two,
after which all hands would be
invited in for a drink. He
eventually got the men screwed-
up to a sense of responsibility,
induced everyone to get his name
on the roll and elect him their
representative. His fiery oratory
livened-up the first Federal
Parliament, and he was a
founder of the Commonwealth
Bank.
• •
Apropos above: Mrs.
Dorothy Catts, whose address
is Kookaburra, Huntley’s Point,
Sydney, told The Bulletin that
she has a good deal of material
on O’Malley—she was off to Rock-
hampton (Q.) within a few days to con-
tinue her investigations there —but would
welcome authentic anecdotes sent to her
Sydney address. She is the widpw of
James Howard Catts, a close friend of
O’Malley and himself a Federal Parlia-
mentarian. Bora at Wagga (N.S.W.) in
1878, “Jimmy” Catts was A.L.P. member
for Cook, a formidable debater and able
organiser who later fell out with the
party and formed a short-lived party of
his own in the early ’twenties. A son is
the present proprietor of the “King’s
Cross Times,” a lively Sydney “local-
paper.”
•' •
“Fitz”: Nathan F. Spielvogel, who
passed on in his native Ballarat (Vic.) at
82 this month, was teaching a six-pupil
school in the Victorian Grampians when
he sent his first offering to The Bulletin.
Encouraged by a letter from J. F. Archi-
bald, he went on to become one of the
most prolific writers for “Aboriginalities,”
under the pen-names “Eko,” “Gum-
sucker,” “Genung” and “X. Square.”
Whenever there’s discussion among
“Abo.” writers on such things as whether
a kangaroo is born in its mother’s pouch
or not I’m reminded of the fiery
exchanges between Spielvogel and Donald
E. Fraser (“Jimmie Pannikin”).
More than 50 years ago Spielvogel
busted a small legacy on a trip to Europe,
and', like Randolph Bedford and A. G.
Stephens, put his overseas impressions
between covers — A Gumsucker on the
Tramp (1906); a very readable book and
quite a collector’s item these days. His
next book, The Cocky Farmer (1907), had
a mixed reception; it was claimed that
it libelled certain Wimmera farmers.
Other books were The Gumsucker at
Home (1913), The Affair at Eureka (1928),
Old Eko's Notebook (1930)—which he
considered his best —and Our Gum Trees
(1913), a selection of verse from the many
he wrote for The Bulletin, “The Lone
Hand” and other journals.
He became headmaster of Dana-street
School, Ballarat, where he had been a
pupil, and on retiring in 1939 set about
writing local history. A Fellow of the
Ballarat Historical Society, he held
office in various Jewish organisations,
wrote a book titled The Call of the
Wandering Jew (1940), and died on the
eve of publication of a second volume
of his Jewish stories.
• •
Back in Perth after spending a year at
the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Walter Max Thorbjornsen, a 29-
year-old engineering graduate of the Wes-
tralian University. In 1954 he was
awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellow-
ship.
• •
A Bulletin Editor:
John Edward Webb, whose So Much for
Sydney! has caused lively comment, was editor
of Perth “Sunday Times” for 15 years before
invited to join The Bulletin staff in 1920 by
William Macleod and S. H. Prior, whom he
describes as “Gentlemen both, and generous to
a fault.” Other newspaper proprietors who had
employed him, with a solitary exception who
ruined himself punting, he dismisses as a “scurvy
crowd.”
He followed S. H. Prior as editor in 1933 and
retired in 1948. Editors leave their mark on a
paper. J. E. Webb’s intense interest in politics,
his fearlessness, and a quality of high serious-
ness which, combined with a stinging aptness ol
phrase, distinguished his leading-articles,
influenced The Bulletin of his day, those who
worked under him, and national affairs. His
J. E. WEBB
devastating attack on Lang in the early ’thirties
is still quoted by students of politics. He was
always up to his neck in work, his desk was
always crowded with proofs and papers, he
always seemed to have a steel-pen poised to
swoop—he was a lightning sub—yet his
standard of courtesy never varied. This was the
same for young and old, senior and junior, high
and low; as a junior member of the staff, present
writer was greatly impressed by it. A
former copy-boy, now an insurance-broker,
recently told writer that he attributed much of
his later success “outside” to this considerate
treatment as a lad; it nourished self-respect, and
at the same time implanted the notion, not
always obvious to the young, that politeness was
not inconsistent with strength.
At 252 George-street, which he visits occasion-
ally, many tales are told concerning J. E. Webb’s
working habits, his encyclopaedic memory, his
use of an illuminating sentence. He is the sort
of man about whom legends accumulate. Not
much of a diner-outer in his time in the editorial
chair—he was the dedicated type, there—he
nevertheless had many friends, among them
leaders in widely separated walks of life. And
these personal contacts were reflected in the
range of his writing. In the West, he was thrown
into close association with John Forrest, for
whom he retains an abiding affection. His pick
of present politicians is Casey.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Our new (acting) Rear-
Admiral, Captain A. W. R. McNicholl,
director of naval reserves and now
appointed head of the Australian Joint
Services Staff, London, is one of Aus-
tralia’s best-known naval men. He
entered the Royal Australian Naval
College at Jervis Bay in 1922, and his
senior appointments on Naval Staff and
at sea have included command of
H.M.A.S. Australia and chief staff-officer
to the Flag Officer commanding the Aus-
tralian fleet. Won the George Medal in
the Mediterranean in 1941 for disarming
torpedoes in a captured Italian sub. in
extremely hazardous conditions, and also
holds the C.B.E. and the Netherlands
Order of Oranje Nassau. He’ll go to his
new post in London next January, replac-
ing Air-Vice-Marshal V. E. Hancock,
who will return to Australia for a new
appointment.
AIR-MARSHAL SIR HARRY BROAD-
HURST, K.C.B., K.B.E., D.S.O. and Bar,
D.F.C. and Bar, A.F.C., Air-Officer Com-
manding-in-Chief, Bomber Command,
sketched at Mascot, Sydney, when he
arrived for the Air Force Week
celebrations.
There’s a Navy McNicholl, an Army
McNicholl and David McNicholk news-
paperman, Second A.I.F. (Middle East
and Darwin), war-correspondent, occa-
sional poet, Sydney columnist and now
editor-in-chief of the Packer Press. Their
father was Sir William McNicholl, who
commanded the Sixth Bn. on Gallipoli
and Tenth Inf. Bde. in France—one of
the surprising crop of teacher-soldiers of
the First A.1.F., he was fon a time after
War I headmaster of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Goulburn (N.S.W.), and
later Administrator of New Guinea.
• •
As noted in another par., the R.A.N.
member of the family goes to London
with the acting-rank of Rear-Admiral.
And Ronald Ramsay McNicholl has been
promoted from Brigadier to Major-
General, and takes A. A. Hellstrom’s
place as Controller, Design and Inspec-
tion Branch (Military Component), De-
partment of Supply. Major-General
Hellstrom, who retired last Thursday, has
been associated with ordnance and supply
for most of his military life. Graduated
from Duntroon 1921, served on various
headquarters in War 11, and was Assist-
ant Director of Ordnance Services
(Plans and Lines of Communication) in
the Middle East. McNicholl, 1926-
vintage Duntroon, took an engineering
degree At Sydney University, was Works
Officer with the Darwin garrison, served
in the Western Desert, Greece, Crete,
France and Germany, was “mentioned"
twice, became Chief Engineer at Eastern
Command in 1949 and three years
later Engineer-in-Chief at Army H.Q.,
Melbourne.
• •
Arrived in Melbourne last week in
the Stratheden, to become a director of
Shell (Aust.), Robert Paul, who was the
company’s Queensland manager from
1952, and has been visiting the U.K. He
joined Shell in England in 1929, but has
spent most of his business-life in Aus-
tralia. Served with the Ninth Divvy
in War 11, M.C. in the Western Desert,
“mentioned” at Lae and Finschhafen.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 88, Edwin James Beard,
chartered accountant. He was a foundation-
member (1889) of Queensland Athletic Associa-
tion and (1934) of Queensland Orchid Society.
In his youth one of Queensland’s best sprinters,
and one of the first men to play cricket on Bris-
bane Cricket Ground.
At Helmsdale (S.A.), at 81, Arthur Osmond
Richardson, 0.8. E., one of S.A. s best-kno.
charity-workers, particularly on behalf ox ( n
blind. Owning a chain of photographic-studios
in Sydney, he settled in Adelaide m 1938, retiring
10 years later to devote all his hme to chari y •
In 1949 he arranged the posting of 120,00Uib. ox
food-parcels to various organisations in tne
UK ) .
At Bowral (N.S.W.), at .79, E. W. Hicks,
player-manager of an Australian Df, vis . ~ u J, te t
which went to England before World War •
He won several tennis-championships m
Europe around the same period.
In Brisbane, at 79, R. M. Sheridan, a pioneer
of the sheep-industry of Queensland s south-west.
Long-standing member of United prazieii
Association, and breeder of racehorses. A
nephew is Liberal member for Moreton and
Bulletin contributor D, J. Killen,




ABORIGINALITIES
THONG A must be getting civilised if its
police need special training in crime-
detection (B. 5/9/’56).
Thirty years ago there was little, if
any, serious crime in the kingdom, and
the native police generally “did nothing
in particular, and did it very well.” Most
of them were well over 6ft. and filled
their positions, and their uniforms, with
much dignity.
We lived across the road from the jail
at Vava’u, but the only inconvenience
of this proximity was that the prisoners’
5 a.m. alarm-clock, an enormous tali or
wooden drum, wakened us every morn-
ing, rattled our windows and threatened
to dislodge bric-a-brac and utensils from
our shelves, like the frequent local earth-
tremors.
Tone (pronounced like French Tau-ne),
the jailer, 6ft. 4in. and 20st., led a life of
rest with dignity, but on some afternoons
his and his prisoners’ siesta would be
disturbed by a small papalagi banging
on his door and calling, “Tone! Tone!
Omai niu!” (“bring coconut”). Tone
would heave himself up from his pile
of sleeping-mats, go to his back-door,
and bellow an order to one of the “lads”
asleep in the unlocked jail, and a little
later a small boy would stagger home
with two pairs of fresh green coconuts
coupled together by strips of their rind,
while Tone and his charges resumed their
nap.
Jail-discipline was quite strict, though,
and any sentence-serving Sabbath-
breaker, snapper-up of unconsidered
trifles, or poll-tax defaulter, who had not
returned from his village excursions by
sunset, would, as a notice on the gate
proclaimed in large letters, be locked out
for the night.
Tu‘i Tavaki, the head policeman, was
a favorite target for the tourists’ cameras,
as he dominated the wharf on steamer-
day. Built on the lines of Queen Salote’s
herculean sons, he would have made a
great heavyweight wrestler, but nobody
wanted to wrestle with him. When Tu‘i
said “Ha‘u” they would “come.”
Altogether, a good time was enjoyed
by all —jailer, police, prisoners, the native
population and the white residents, whose
persons and property, without protection
of lock-and-key, were safer than iu
any Australian country town or city.
Papalangi.
* * * *
“Agricola”: From Goldman’s Elements
(1910):
Uranium is a rare metal. It is never
found in its native state and has no com-
mercial use. It is white in color.
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Returning home to N.S.W.
from holidays in Victoria a country
family ran into a blistering heatwave.
Shopping in the township they met some
neighbors whose aged father had been
ailing before they went away. “How is
he standing the heat?” they asked in all
innocence, and wondered why their
kindly question gave such bitter offence.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Mrs. Carol Walling, of
Tauranga (N.Z.), has been advised by the
secretary of the International Game Fish
Association that her catch of a 5361 b.
thresher-shark, which she played for nine
hours at Mayor Island last season, has
been recognised as a woman’s all-tackle
and woman’s 1301 b.-line-test world-record.
* * * •
“Woorarra”: If graziers wanted a
bird as a 'Symbol of their industry it isn’t
likely they’d choose the striped-honey-
eater, but a better choice couldn’t be
found. No avian shows greater apprecia-
tion of the sheep’s overcoat. When sheep
are present —and they usually are —in
this fowl’s habitat, the pendulous baglike
nest is built almost entirely of wool.
Hung usually from the end of a droop-
”Once We're home I don't care HOW you Wear it!"
ing bough of wilga or sheoak, the cradle
swings alarmingly in every breeze that
blows. But even in a gale I have never
seen a nest blown down, so the bird’s
confidence in our main industry is amply
justified. Drab coloration, nomadic
habits and, above all, a very cheerful
song characterise the striped-honeyeater.
Normally a bird of the interior, it is an
occasional coastal visitor.
“ ’Ermit”: Didn’t “Macquarie’s”
butcher (B. 5/9/’56) have his dogs mixed?
Have always heard that sheepdogs mustn’t
be fed mutton, lest they acquire a taste
for their charges. First time I ran across
this was in Kipling (“The Knife and the
Naked Chalk” in Rewards and Fairies) —
—and he rarely made a mistake.
“Then after all that I got FINED for jaywalking—disobeying the
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.”
“C. Coral”: A native plant much in
favor with the young bucks of Torres
Straits is the kusi-bager ( Kaempferia),
which carries large broad leaves, bedrs
tubers, and provides a scent. In the old
days one of the devices to attract the
attention of the girls was a love-charm
r/rY Vn A t Ol f \ 0r a ™;
guard. Called a kog-lu, ,1 was prepared
from various plants, among them kusi-
bager. The roots were chewed and
“Sed"^ca?vK ™
„ 2„tu"a "o” i d
™ a » ed ”,i hr a e „ dded H sago " P ” i
111 ana ™ 5
temp e and concentrated on thinking
whenever s™ Her he mneTted Z
himself a formula in ’which the words
"You come!” constantly occurred, touch-
ing or flicking with hisright index-finger
times SZZkJS? was'
times the whole body was scented with
the kusi-bager preparation, rubbed in
with leaves; if the girl whom it was
desired to attract was in a house the
young fellow would go quietly to wind-
ward of it and presently would be
rewarded by the girl looking out and (if
she liked his appearance) coming to join
him. Some of these love-charms, con-
sidered particularly powerful, were
handed down as heirlooms from father
to son.
* * * *
•e c x T
McKim : After the wife of a New
England (N.S.W.) businessman went on
holiday an advertisement appeared in
the town newspaper stating that her
husband wanted a housekeeper for three
weeks ; “must be young.” Having been
caused “considerable embarrassment with
relatives,” the husband went to the police.
They discovered that the advertisement
had been inserted by one of the husband’s
employees, who paid for the prank with
a £5 fine and the loss of his job.
* * * *
“Archaen”: One earJy-days source of
salt-supply is actually still in use—the
salt-lakes on Kangaroo Island (S.A.). As
far back as 1820 the island had a popu-
lation of escaped convicts, absconding
ticket-of-leavers and seamen who had
deserted from whaling-ships. Trading-
vessels used to call and hand over rum
and tobacco for seals and wallaby-skins,
and it occurred to Captain Forbes, of
the schooner Prince of Denmark, that a
fortune could be made by taking salt
from there to Sydney, where it was in
demand for curing hides and pickling
meat. The sealers were quite willing
to scrape up a ton of salt on the near-by
lakes, put it in the sacks provided and
hump them across to the beach for about
55.-worth of rum. In Sydney or Hobart
it sold for £lO per ton. Salt-scraping has
been a sideline with residents there eve?
since.
* * * *
“Bowden”: “Heresorie” (B. 22/8/’56),
who was glad to hear “Koo-Warra” got
his Post Office Guide after persevering
for two weeks, should be overjoyed to
hear that the one I ordered by post on
Tuesday, August 28, was delivered by the
letter-carrier about 10.30 a.m., Thursday,
August 30. This must constitute a
record.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Did the Mackay beer put
“H.V.C.’s” view of Dame Nellie Melba
and her husband (B. '5/9/’56) out of
perspective? “Kangaroo Charlie” Arm-
strong and his wife had left the little
cottage at the Marian, where he was a
field-overseer, long before 1902. Nellie
Armstrong appeared on the stage in
popular concerts in the Mackay School
of Arts, and in the old Albion Hotel
(Mother Mac’s) Hall in Walkerston on
several occasions, and some local critics
reckoned “she wasn’t too bad, if you like
listening to a canary.” The Anglican vicar
at Walkerston had a son, the only choir-
boy, who, according to one who
had never seen a surpiiced choir, “came
to church in his nightgown.” Later it
was suggested that Nellie Armstrong
should be in the choir —“She’s got just the
same kind o’ voice, and I s’pose she’s got
a what-d’-ye-call-it of her own she could
wear.” How little they knew! The last
news, dinkum or furphy, of “Kangaroo
Charlie” that filtered through to Mackay
while I was there was that he was putting
up a good show riding buckjumpers at
the Crystal Palace.
THE DIAMOND CREEK:
SEPTEMBER
Black water lies
Where leans the woeful head
Of fallen willow stretching out despair
From bank to bank, across the tumbled
grass
Spilling a ruined yellowness of hair,
And curving a sallow elbow for disguise
Where buds like velvet tears silver the
mead.
Quick as a tongue
The creek now slaps a coat
Of water-glaze with signature of ferns
A cross the speckled jar-shape of a stone,
Stumbles on a bubble, sways, and turns
To peer where foxgloves, ranked in
gloom, await
Their signal moving in the summers
throat.
Faint billowings
Bestir the cherry-plums
Thdt pause, smoke-white, above the
furthest field,
And plumed in wattle, speared with
sloping sun,
The native bush comes warily to yield
Spring-tribute coined in pewter and in
bronze
And threaded, tinkling, on the restive
gums.
All questionings
This unsuspected hour
Has answered; even a nameless shoot
that grew
In patience, groping through mind’s dark
soil.
Now, when these petals falter, few by few,
Frail on the water, perilous as bliss,
At last is nourished, swells, and breaks
to flower.
So drift by,
Slow buds in dream, swirl on
Pale as gloves that, drooping, fall . . .
and soon
The urgent night will stoop, snatch up the
sign
Left idly in the strolling afternoon,
And beckon from the alley of the dusk
To day’s soft shape before the jade is
gone.
Now lamps are lit
In windows, dogs nudge in
To homestead doors, and all the children
come
Cold-cheeked across the paddocks, sud-
denly
Remembering tea, the faithful stove, the
hum
Of the kitchen. Voices hammering
The password for tomorrow sharp and
thin.
They leave today
In secret housey nooks,
Leaf-swept and chanted round with little
runes
And decked with tempting flowers that
always fade :
Gossip now in the bath, or pick at tunes
Of half-learnt songs, and scribble artlessly
With sleepy pencils in their story-books.
Nightlong and alone
In orchard gloom the pensioned horse
will lurk
And snuffle softly under vanished boughs
Where wraiths of blossom haunt Sep-
tember dark.
victoria.
ANNE CHLOE ELDER.


THE beginner in ornithology is liable
to get bushed in the jungle of avian
nomenclature. Take, for instance, the
shrikes. We have in this country three
shrike-tits, ditto shrike-robins, shrike-
thrushes galore, a largish family of
cuckoo-shrikes, "s Moreover, certain
butcher-birds and magpies are sometimes
known as crow-shrikes. It would seem
that our land is practically stiff with
shrikes. Actually we haven’t any! The
Old World family of cannibalistic fowl
does not extend further south than New
Guinea! Probably the most maligned
birds, by inference, in Australia are the
cuckoo-shrikes. These handsome and
harmless fowl are neither cuckoos nor
shrikes but honest hard-working avians
who rear their own young and interfere
with nobody.—“Saaedi.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Our small European com-
munity here in Fiji formed a Film
Society, which has regular outdoor show-
ings behind hibiscus hedges. We were
first made aware of a Fijian audience by
the frantic swaying of young mango-
trees outside. With each meeting they
grew bolder, until at last there were
hordes of Fijians squatting on the grass
beside our chairs; though what interest
“Julius Caesar” could have had for them
we are still wondering.
♦ * * *
“ ’Ermit”: Touching on whites’ use of
nettles for chilblains, New Guinea natives
also use a nettle to apply the old medical
principle of counter-irritation for all
sorts of pains and aches. Many tribes
beat the affected part with a bunch of
stinging-nettle leaves till it becomes red
and swollen —they claim that when the
irritation passes off the pain goes with
it. Judging by the personal effects of
merely brushing against the plants by
accident, the natives’ generous applica-
tions would make a mustard-plaster feel
like soothing-cream by comparison.
Whether the poison of the nettle has any
medicinal value, such as has been claimed
for bee-stings in treating rheumatism, or
whether the irritation merely gives the
patient something more -urgent to think
about while the original pain wears off
in the ordinary course of nature, is
debatable. •
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I’m here to doubt if ever
Mrs. Beeton did say “First catch your
hare” (B. 5/9/’56). I’ve been right
through Mrs. Beeton’s Household
Management; in its 2000 pages I found
16 recipes for cooking a hare, instruc-
tions for skinning and trussing, methods
of hunting them, how to tell a young one
from an old one—but nary a word about
catching one. I even dug up a copy of
the first edition, published in 1861. The
quotation wasn’t there, either.
“ Congratulations , Professor; your bomb exceeded all expectations !”
“J.J.A.”: Should like to know where
the Victorian Forests Commission sells
wood for Is. 6d. per ton (B. 5/9/’56).
In my neck o’ the woods the commission
charges 3s. 6d. per ton, and the limit
is 15 tons. Certainly I know men who
can stack 15 tons into a 20-ton heap,
but they are professionals.
* * * *
“Bo”: I passed him as he was pedalling
an ancient grid along the Comleroy-road
towards Colo (N.S.W.). He had his
head poked through the middle rungs
of a ladder, which he wore fore-and-
aft, and tied to and suspended from
various rungs were a saw, a hammer, a
billycan, frying-pan, tomahawk, a long-
handled shovel the blade of which
occasionally bumped the ground, a
mattock, and several items of personal
impedimenta. I think there were also
a bath-heater, ice-chest, a set of quoits,
a geiger-counter and a small ship’s tank,
but I wouldn’t be prepared to swear to
these, as he was going at such speed. I
took it that he was a hatter on his way
to make urgent extensions or repairs to
a hollow log—anyway, he waved a loud
hiccup as he shot by.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have heard, up and down
this land of ours, of men “doing their
sugar,” “blewing their dough,” “losing
their wire,” “dropping their wads,”
“busting their boodle,” “splashing the
needful,” “slinging their loot,” “tossing
their splosh” and “murdering their
Oscar.” But—at least in parts where
there are no kerbstones to gaze at —I
have never heard of a man simply losing
his money.
* * * *
“Half-Dirty”; Have never had any
trouble following conversation about
cricket on a local scale, but the recent
Test-broadcasts made a man feel very
ignorant. I got the hang of it when
Archer was said to be “operating” against
Washbrook, but I just sat humbly whilst
the wicket became'' “docile,” the ball
became “fugitive” and bats “swung a
delightful offensive gesture to the crowd.”
I tried the best one out at the pub, asking
the mob if they weye “thrilled by the
delicious spinning leather” that bowled
Bailey. The ensuing stern silence sug-
gested I had had my fill and should go
home.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Speaking of tippling
monkeys getting blotto on the
being collected from trees by natives for
their home-brew, Greenland evidently has
its canine topers. Unlike the chimps, the
dogs aren’t willing alcoholics ; and their
intoxication comes from eating, not
drinking. Paula Erikson, in her Doctor’s
Wife in Greenland, traced the source of
a husky’s booziness to shark-meat. Oddly,
too, it was not stale but fresh shark-
flesh that caused it.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Writing to a Perth paper, a
London correspondent broke the news
that the Tasmanian devil, a “striped, lean
animal with a pouch,” previously con-
sidered extinct, was now thought to be
still living in parts of Tasmania. He’s
right on one point—the devil is still living
—but otherwise he’s well off the beam.
The Tasmanian devil is neither lean nor
striped—he’s a short, stocky beast, with a
big head, is about half as big again as
a cat and 10 times as vicious; and he’s
never been considered extinct. The
animal this London naturalist has in
mind is the Tasmanian tiger, and there’s
just a chance it isn’t extinct, either.
Anyway, though it hasn’t been definitely
identified for many years, its tracks have
lately been reported from the Apple
Island. Let’s hope the tracks lead to the
beast itself, because there’s nothing quite
like it anywhere else in the world. The
Tassie devil has distant marsupial
relatives ; the Tassie tiger is unique.
* * * *
“Byramine”: Congratulations to R. S.
Porteous for his very entertaining
“Brigalow.” But may I correct a point
“ Must've crossed the border !”
in handling scrub-cattle? A stockman,
having thrown a beast, does not “tuck
both arms round its hindleg.” The
process goes like this: You send the
beast at its top until it begins to stagger ;
vault out of the saddle, facing the way
the horse is going; grab the tail; move
up along the near-side, and, while the
beast’s near-hind-foot is on the ground,
heave the hindquarter towards you. As
soon as it falls, lean over its* back, pull
the tail between the hindlegs, drop one
knee into the hollow in front of the hip
and you have him secure. A couple of
turns of the mickey-strap round both
hindlegs, and wait while your mates bring
up the mob. When the quiet cattle are
close enough, unbuckle the strap, quietly,
and streak for the nearest tree. When
the scrubber gets on his feet and sees
nothing but cattle he moves off quietly
with them.
**. * *
“Phillida”: In the floral world Nature
seems to have a special liking for the
number five. Many flowers of shrubs
favor five petals; among them hibiscus,
lassiandra, lilac, azalea, rondeletia and
Geraldton wax-plant. Of the smaller
flowers, violet, primula and forget-me-
not, to name a few. Fruit-tree blossoms
are also five-petalled.
* * * *
“Bass”: Isn’t “Quo Vadis” astray
when he speaks of the wood-borers eating
into the tree in preparation for a long
pupation (B. 22/8/’56)? From my
observations, although a grub may spend
anything up to a couple of years in a
tree, most of that time is spent in eating
its way into the heartwood and out again,
to pupate after it has tunnelled out to
the bark. Pupation is a comparatively
short affair, terminating at the right
season for the winged form to emerge,
mate, and lay more eggs under the bark
or inside the wood. Some wasps, equipped
with long ovipositors, seek a crack in
the sapwood in which to deposit the
eggs; others, notably Sirex noctilio,
seem able to drill a hole an inch into the
solid wood —at least of softwood trees.
That puts the. egg where the hatching-
grub is surrounded by food, and although
it isn’t equipped to chew the wood, its
parent has provided for that by deposit-
ing with the egg the spores of a fungus
which acts on the wood and makes it
edible to the grub. Later, of course, the
grub can manage under its own steam,
and then the fungus sits back and waits
until it’s time for its spores to be
deposited with the eggs.
* * # *
“P.0.M.C.”: “Women!"’ Baldy, the
linesman, exploded. “On payday the
missus gives me the cup with the handle
on it, the fork with four prongs, the
sharp knife an’ me tobacco-money and
yells Jimmy out of the easy-chair because
‘Y’r father’s been working hard all day.’
On Saturday I try to bite two-bob for
a beer, an’ she shouts: ‘No, y’ good-for-
nothin’ drunkard! Get off your backside
an’ go and earn it!’ ”
* * * *
“An Chuidh”: The bullroarer was also
known in historic Ireland, being used in
the inauguration of the Ard Righ (High
King) and the chiefs. The candidate was
led to the Coronation Stone, the Lia Fail.
When the rightful king stood beside it it
screamed; with a usurper there was
silence. The scream was arranged by the
Druids with bullroarers, a simple but
subtle method of refusing to crown
“usurping” kings and still save their
necks.
* * * *
“Maitri”: 'The noisy currawongs are
great thieves and not above pinching
clothes off the line. On the whole, though,
our family gains more than it loses:
every now and again we pick up from the
lawn small articles stolen from neighbors
—handkerchiefs, face-washers, or the
daily news-rag. In a garden not far
away flourish rare gladioli, which the
owner jealously guards. We’ve never
been able to discover the name of the
glads, and hadn’t the nerve to ask him.
Then a currawong obligingly dropped a
giadiolus-corai on our path. We planted
it and last summer it flowered —the very
one we’d admired! Good old Curry!
* # * *
AN article by a Bulletin contributor
has referred to an old Spanish gun
inscribed “Santa Barbara 1596” having
been unearthed from the sand at South
Trees Point, near Gladstone (Q.), by a
survey-party in 1853.
The supposed finding of the Santa
Barbara gun at Gladstone has been put
forward periodically in the past 60 years
as part of the “evidence” substantiating
what is known to Australian historians
as “the Spanish Legend,” which asserts
that Pedro Fernandez de Quiros landed
on the shores of Port Curtis harbor in
1606, and that Port Curtis was the
identical Vera Cruz of the Spanish navi-
gator’s Terra Australis del Espiritu Santo.
There’s no truth in the story. The
Spanish Legend has been repeatedly
exploded, firstly by The Bulletin’s
William Henry Traill in 1901 and by
Captain J. H. Watson in 1913. Captain
Watson established proof that there was
not a single scrap of evidence to support
the finding of a gun on South Trees
Point.
In any case, the words “Santa Barbara”
on a cannon would not signify the name
of the ship the gun came from. Santa
Barbara was the patron-saint of artillery,
and it was never naval practice to place
on guns the names of the ships to which
they belonged.
Further, there is no record of any
ship of the name of Santa Barbara having
sailed from the Spanish colonies in the
New World in the 16th and 17th
centuries. The only Santa Barbara on
the Australian coast was a small
schooner which in the ’forties was tender,
to Ben Boyd’s yacht Wanderer at Two-
fold Bay. This Santa Barbara eventually
went to Queensland, and became the
pilot’s vessel at Port Denison in 1861 ;
later she was wrecked near Bowen, and
Captain Watson logically suggested that
the story of this wreck may in the course
of time have helped build the legend of
the Spanish wreck.
Colin Archer, of Gracemere, who years
afterwards designed the Fram for
Nansen’s Arctic expedition, was quoted
by Richard Ware, a member of the Glad-
stone survey-party of 1853, as having
inspected a supposed wreck “with oaks
growing through her gaping sides,”
promptly identifying it as a Spanish ship
and digging about it for treasure.
This was another furphy. Writing to
Captain Watson from Larvik, Norway, in
June, 1914, Colin Archer flatly denied
that he had ever seen the wreck.
CLEM LACK.


Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Crain Silos
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SILOS
mm
' IV
•V'
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
• Easily erected permanent
9 Rodent and weatherproof
® Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
• Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
• Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
• Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
O Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
[AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided)
£l3O.
WRITE for further in-
formatin and Agents'
blames to Dept. No. B
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty, Ltd. In
all Capital Cities .
u: mm
registered
f\rst
mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7
/o
Pf * ANNUM
FOR 5 years
J \sLaumteed
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and
Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia’s
Leading Hire Purchase Organisation—
2ft
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
PERTH HOBART
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Tax-freedom for New Mines
r F\HAT imaginative -and
* national - minded public
servant, S. B. Dickinson,
Director of Mines in South Aus-
tralia, is strongly of the view that
what is mostly needed to develop
new mining properties in Aus-
tralia quickly is a more
enlightened taxation policy in
respect of a new mine’s first few
years of production.
In a circular issued by his
department he mentions that dur-
ing the last two or three years
there have been major discoveries
of copper, lead, zinc, uranium,
iron, titanium and aluminium in
various parts of the Common-
wealth. But new mines are
expensive and take several years
to bring into production.
Returns of any magnitude are
rarely possible within five years
of their initial discovery. Much
finance is required, and the value
of a mineral resource, once
developed, is depleted by mining
proceeds. These are features
peculiar to the mining industry,
and call for special taxation
consideration.
Mr. Dickinson contends that
a tax-free period of three years
in the initial production for any
new mine is the main reason for
the amazing development in
Canadian mining in recent years.
In the past decade $ 10,000-
million has been invested in the
Canadian mining industry. Mr.
Dickinson believes that similar
tax-concessions in this country
would lead to a similar spec-
tacular growth in Australian
mining.
Such concessions, he says,
would almost certainly lead to
the establishment of a large
coppermine, two major lead-
zinc mines, a second aluminium
industry, a • new steel industry
and many other smaller mines at
a much faster rate than would
be the case under present taxa-
tion policy. And he joints out
that in the past profits from
mining have been directly and
indirectly responsible for estab-
lishing many of Australia's basic
manufacturing industries —such
as steelworks, metal-working
industries, chemicals and
fertilisers.
In Canada, metals and
minerals account for about a
quarter of Canada’s exports.
The Dominion’s income-tax laws
give new mines a tax-free period
of three years on initial produc-
tion. After that they allow all
proper expenses of operation to
be deducted from mine revenue,
including the writing-off of the
plant and all pre-production
development expenditure. From
the resulting profit-figure a
further deduction of a third is
allowed for depletion before net
taxable income is arrived at.
(In the case of goldmines, the
depletion-rate is 40 p.c. of profits,
or $4 an ounce produced, which-
ever is more favorable to the
producer.) Tax-rates are 20 p.c.
of the first $20,000, and 47 p.c.
of the excess of net taxable
income.\
A good mine, says Mr.
Dickinson, will normally become
a sound source of income to
shareholders and a sound source
of revenue to the Government.
If it is a poor one, it will prob-
ably close-down in less than
three years. He .believes that
because of its recognition of
capital risks and the exhaustible
nature of ore-deposits in its tax
laws, Canada is having its
mineral resources developed at
a pace nowhere equalled in the
world. And he suggests that
Canada’s mineral industry has
been the most important single
factor in the country’s economic
growth over the last 10 years, but
that this growth is only partly
due to its mineral potential—
rather to its extremely favorable
economic climate for investment
in mines, including the taxation
policy.
Queensland Press, Ltd.
Queensland press, Ltd.,
has been formed to take
over all the shares in Queensland
Newspapers Pty., Ltd. (Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” “Sunday Mail”
and radio-stations 4BK and
4AK), and Telegraph Newspaper
Co., Ltd. (Brisbane “Tele-
graph”). The morning - paper
proprietary has been jointly
owned (except for a handful of
shares) by Herald and Weekly
Times, Ltd., and C.W.L. Pty.,
Ltd., of Melbourne. The
afternoon-paper co. since last
year has been almost completely
controlled by Melbourne
“Herald” on its own account.
Herald and Weekly Times,
Ltd., and C.W.L. Pty. are
taking £2,248,512 for their
interests in both cos., but
are taking up 4,999,993 10s.
“Now cut the cackle, big boy — it’s ten-to-five .”
shares in the new holding co.
Out of this parcel they are offer-
ing the public 1,500,000 10s.
shares at par. When the issue is
allotted (it has been jointly
underwritten by Ernest H.
Corser, Henderson and Hale,
Brisbane, and lan Potter and
Co., Melbourne) the public will
own a third of the capital, Herald
and W.T. 37.3 p.c. and C.W.L.
Pty. 29.3 p.c.
The float appears to be based
on an up-valuation of £397,887
in freehold properties, but with
plant taken in at its written-
down book-value. The purchase
consideration is £1,310,255 in
excess of the par-value of the
shares in the two publishing cos.,
and there is £248,000 in a
previously created goodwill
account; but reserves, including
revaluation account, total
£1,353,894. Net tangible assets,
on this basis, amount to
£2,245,639,. against which there
will be an issue of 4,500,000 10s.
ords., and 200,000 £1 redeemable
prefs. in the “Telegraph” sub-
sidiary.
Per ordinary share, net
tangibles amount to 9s. Id.
Adjusted earnings for the year to
September 30, 1955, represented
10.4 p.c. on the new ord. capital,
against 7.9 p.c. in 1954 and
7.5 p.c. in 1953. The directors
are confident that, assuming
there is no material change in
existing conditions, the co. will
pay divs. at the rate of not less
than 8 p.c. p.a.
The circulation of the
“Courier - Mail” averaged
227,019 during the six months to
March 31, 1956, the “Sunday
Mail” 283,692, and the “Tele-
graph” 155,000. They represent
by far the predominant news-
paper-coverage in Brisbane,
where there is not the mad-dog
competition so typical among
Sydney newspapers.
General Industries, Ltd.
■pERSISTENT weakness in the
price of General Industries
ords.—they have been as high
as 325. this year, but in recent
months have been mostly around
24s. —has been followed by a
cut in the interim div. from
10 p.c. p.a. to 8 p.c. p.a. The
ords. have, as a consequence,
slipped to 235.
Apart from the general
slackening in homebuilding
(which means a smaller demand
for stoves, baths, sinks, etc.), the
co. has entered the refrigerator
trade at a bad time; and its
investment in TV-receiver
manufacturing must for a period
remain Under
present heavier capitalisation,
and with new ventures to prove
themselves, General Industries
ords., as an investment, are for
the time being an uncertain
quantity.
Television Corporation
"CVEN a spectacular and tech-
nically satisfactory prelimin-
ary run by Station TCN in
Sydney didn’t succeed in putting
Television Corp. shares above
par. Of 10s. face-value and paid
to 7s. 6d., they could be bought
freely at 6s. last week.
They are essentially a long-
term proposition. Their main
value at present rests in the fact
that they possess a licence in a
limited field that may develop
rapidly in. later years. That is
what the big shareholder-backers
of the co. are banking on.
Housing
CTNCE VE-day (May 8, 1945)
Canada has built a million
new homes. In this regard Aus-
tralia shows up favorably with
Canada ; it built about 650,000
homes in the same period, with
a present population of about
nine million alongside Canada’s
16 million.
But the cost of housing has
risen at a steeper rate in Aus-
tralia than in Canada. That i$
true of most things when a com-
parison is made between the two
countries.
Dylup Plantations, Ltd.
-jnOR £190,000 in cash, Dylup
A Plantations, Ltd., is to
acquire the copra and cocoa
plantations of New Guinea
Estates Pty., Ltd., 40 miles from
Madang, in the Mandated Terri-
tory of New Guinea. They
have been operated for about
30 years.
From the wording of the pros-
pectus, the presumption is that
the plantations are freehold.
An issue of 320,000 shares of
10s. each is being made, under-
written by Ralph W. King and
Yuill, members of Sydney
’Change. With £50,000 overdraft
arranged with the Common-
wealth Trading Bank, a working-
capital of £7500 is expected to
remain after the flotation is
completed.
The plantations comprise
4445 acres, planted with 140,000
coconut-palms and interplanted
with 90,000 cocoa-trees; it is
proposed to increase cocoa-
plantings to at least 200,000 trees.
It takes seven years for a cocoa-
tree to reach full production (51b.
of dry beans), but some output is
harvested from the third year
onwards.
Both Dylup copra and cocoa-
beans are rated best quality.
The plantations and equipment
are valued at £200,028, and net
assets at £157,528. Net tangible-
asset backing for each 10s. share
is estimated in the prospectus by
B. O. Smith and Son at 9s. lQd,,
o Continued on next page)


FIVE YEARS’
STATISTICAL
1952. 1953.
£ £
520.000 520,000
RECORD
1954. 1955.
£ £
520,000 520,000
1956.
£
788,248
241,810
9,533
6% Fixed Preference Shares .. ......
Interest of Outside Shareholders in Subsidiary
Companies .. . • •
130,000
452
130,000
379
130,000
383
130,OUU
385
Reserves and Undistributed Profits (after final
dividends) • • • •
650,452
58,807
650,379
60,852
650,383
72,406
650,385
86,551
1,039,591
162,795
Shareholders’ Funds
£709,259
£711,231
£722,789
£736,936
£1,202,386
Liabilities —Debentures • •
Current (including final dividends) .. ..
250,000
176,925
250,000
237,574
250,000
307,328
250,000
342,949
354,938
512,677
TOTAL LIABILITIES • •
426,925
487,574
557,328
592,949
867,615
Total Shareholders’ Funds and Liabilities ..
£1,136,184
£1,198,805
£1,280,117
£1,329,885
£2,070,001
ASSETS: —
Fixed (Plants and Properties)
Shares in Outside Companies .. .. I ..
Current (Stocks and Debtors) •
906,504
15,378
214,302 __
955,394
15,041
228,370
1,002,504
14,899
262,714
1,060,312
15,173
254,400
1,635,553
12,895
421,553
TOTAL ASSETS
£1,136,184
£1,198,805
£1,280,117
£1,329,885
£2,070,001
Net Profits before Taxation
Less Income Taxes
68,253
32,900
77,979
31,720
86,183
\30,410
97,562
34,000
150,331
61,500
Distributable Profit
£35,353
£46,259
£55,773
£63,562
£88,831
Transfer to Reserve ..
Dividend Rates for Year —Ordinary
Preference ... ..
Dividends —Amount
6*%
(as from 1st July,
£33,815
7%
1952) 6%
£44,215
£10,000
7%
6%
£44,215
£10,000
8%
6%
£49,415
£20,000
8%
6%
£68,301
and estimated profit for 1956-57
at 21.5 p.c. on capital, rising to
27 p.c. in 1961 on a doubled pro-
duction of cocoa (rising from
105 tons this year to around 200
tons). Annual output of copra
is put at 1200 tons, and no great
variation is expected for some
years.
In 1957 the existing agreement
with the British Ministry of
Food for the sale of New Guinea
copra will terminate. For the
year to Jan. 31, 1956, the co.
received an average of £70.4 a
ton for copra, and £75.3 the year
before; corresponding figures
for cocoa were £276.2 and
£458.2. Present price for hot-
air-dried copra, c.i.f. Madang, is
about £62 10s. a ton. Produc-
tion costs on the plantation are
about £4O a ton, but a reduction
of “at., least” £5 a ton is hoped
for.
Cocoa costs the co. something
less than £l5O a ton, and it is
hoped to reduce this figure as
production increases.
Directors of Dylup are J. W.
Douglass, W. J. Farram, J. C.
Koefod and F. N. Warner-
Shand.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
THERE is probably more ten-
sion inside industry now than
there has been for over 20 years.
Fears of redundancy are more
real. Automation, with con-
sequent switching of jobs, per-
haps to different areas, is an
unsettling factor. And it is
obvious to all parties that resist-
ance to wage-claims can no
longer be half-hearted.
This consciousness has pro-
voked odd but furious reactions.
Mr. Macmillan can never seri-
ously have believed that he
would be welcomed as a guest-
speaker at the T.U.G. confer-
ence ; nor, indeed, that his
exhortations would be heeded.
But his advance statement of,
among other things, the division
between company profits and
taxation was realistic and con-
sistent with his policy for a
“plateau of stability,” the more
particularly as prices have kept
level. He has been criticised
on two grounds: first, that his
approach appeared to come from
the employers’ side ; and, second,
that he made no mention of
“fringe” benefits (industrial pen-
sions, job-security, long-term
contracts and so on).
There may be substance for
the first criticism, but the second
one is by no means the simple
solution. The mptor-workers,
for example, no doubt would
welcome “fringe” benefits, as
would any trade faced with
redundancy and laying-off. But
th e nationalised industries,
especially the railways, have no
such problems, the workers are
pensionable, and the service must
continue to function, however
bad trade may be outside. More-
over, as was proved during the
recent strike in the British Motor
Corporation works, about one-
half of the workers, keener to
earn money than to show union
solidarity, disobeyed their union-
leaders. , The railwaymen, hav-
ing a sense of dissatisfaction, if
not of grievance, would not. -
So, knowing where the seats of
trouble were likely to be, it is
not surprising that the
Chancellor avoided this
approach.
Sharp Left
The shape the trend will take
if industrial matters worsen is
dismally plain from the
immediate reaction of Mr. Frank
new general-secretary of
the Transport and General
Workers’ Union and successor,
at two removes, of Ernest Bevin
and Arthur Deakin.
Taken at their face-value, Mr.
Cousins’s offensive and irrespons-
ible remarks amount to a defiant
refusal to co-operate with any
Government that is not well to
the Left of Centre. Perhaps,
to worse even than that, for he
virtually declared war on the
Government by an inferential
promise to take sympathetic
action if other, smaller, unions
were unable to get their wage-
demands.
In true soapbox fashion, Mr.
Cousins blamed everything on
the Government’s “unplanned”
policy and on the fact that it was
Tory and therefore bad. If
things grow worse he will, pre-
sumably, have greater oppor-
tunities still for invective.
Perhaps Mr. Cousins, a forth-
right man, has not the skill of
other trade-union spokesmen
who can “accept” the need for
wage-restraint and yet evade the
issue when on the platform;
and it may be that he was over-
anxious to appear as “one of
the lads,” since the militant and
belligerent views he expressed
are their own.
Although his popularity
reflects the decline of the
moderates and a swing to the
Left, it is believed that he has
done the trade-union movement,
and himself, a good deal of
harm. In fact, on television just
after the conference he took
pains to avoid any suggestion of
truculence. There are three
important factors for him to bear
in mind: by going too far he has
incensed the General Council;
the members of his own union
are disunited in their loyalty;
and Gaitskell and Co. will not
welcome a potential dictator on
the industrial Left.
Leadership of the T.U.C.
always has a tendency to come
from behind. It now seems com-
mitted to yielding to emotions
at the lowest common
denominator.
Iron Curtain Up
One of the mystiques of the
Theatre is that, somewhere in
the Never-Never Land where
English is an alien tongue, the
works of a playwright of genius
are skulking around, awaiting
only a good translator to bring
intellectual plenty to the arid
commercialism of our stage.
Perhaps the very stodginess of
this fare (however expensively it
may be served up) has provoked
wishful-thinking.
But the latter-day Ibsen has
yet to arrive. Ugo Betti, whose
prolific output was expected to
yield a masterpiece or two, came
in small doses but certainly not
to conquer. For many months,
Bertold Brecht has been
heralded as the only European
playwright with a true claim to
greatness—a Sibelius, as it were,
of the drama.
On this account, the visit to the
Palace Theatre of the Berliner
Ensemble in three of Brecht’s
plays is of special interest. The
Ensemble is stage-financed.
Brecht, until his recent pre-
mature death, was chief adviser
and producer while his widow,
Helene Weigel, is director and
principal actress. It not only
operates behind the Iron Curtain
but is also Marxist in conception
and conviction.
What then of “Mother
Courage,” saga of rags and
tribulation? This commentator,
although handicapped by no
more than a smattering of Ger-
man, found it consummate in
artistry and execution but old-
fashioned. Mother Courage is a
camp-follower of the Thirty
Years’ War who, in a dozen
years of trailing first one and
then the other of the armies,
loses her three children —all
promiscuous—and is reduced
from adequacy of means to
utter beggary. It is a chronicle-
play, told with simplicity,
directness and idiosyncratic but
effective dramatic skill. There is
no overt doctrinal message other
than the indomitability of the
spirit and the agony of the
common man. Indeed, the
implied moral is simply the
futility of protracted war. (The
allusion that comes to mind is,
oddly enough, Jarndyce v.
Jarndyce .)
The production is painstak-
ingly dynamic throughout s and
manifestly succeeds in conveying
the unseen presence of the
armies. And the acting is
fascinating to watch, if only
because of its precision and
diversity of styles.
The main characters are
realistic while some of the Sub-
sidiaries are stylistic (one, the
soldier son, is in the Japanese
Noh-play tradition). As Mother
Courage, Helene Weigel is rarely
off the stage; for three hours
she invests an intrinsically dull
part with emotions of a surpris-
ing and conflicting range.
But the whole, remarkable as
it is, belongs in mood to the
Berlin of the Weimar Republic,
even to sour and lachrymose
Zeitkunst background music.
That is why it is old-fashioned.
Scathouse
After its deservedly-long run,
“Teahouse of the August Moon”
has been replaced at Her
Majesty’s Theatre by another
Services comedy in which
Americans laugh at themselves.
“No Time for Sergeants” deals
with the adventures in the
U.S.A.F. of a poor-white moron
who is neither so dumb as he
looks nor beyond causing up-
heav!,ls at leveis much higher
upon the infectious presence of
Barry Nelson as the ingenuous
roughneck. The rest of a cast
numbering upwards of 30 are
mere foils to him. Most of them
are a i so p Oor a ctors. There are,
too, an apparently self-adjusting
set and an aeroplane in flight. But
the reductio ad absurdum has
not the twinkling satire of the
previous comedy. It is, in fact,
self-conscious and crude.
30th ANNUAL REPORT
THE GAS SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
1956
The Directors submit to Shareholders their Thirtieth Annual
Report and the annexed Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Accounts for the year ended 30th June, 1956.
1956. ‘ 1955.
The Accounts for the year show a profit of .. £63,028
Add amount brought forward from the preceding year .. 12,231 s,ouj
98,435 71,631
Less Interim Dividends paid March, 1956 —
Fixed Cumulative Preference Shares —3% ..£5,105 £3,vw
Ordinary Shares —4% 23,403 Z “ ,8W
28,508 24,700
Leaving a Balance of £69,927 £46,931
Which the Directors recommend be appropri-
ated as follows: —
Final Dividend on Fixed Cumulative Preference
Shares, 3% (making 6% for the year) .... 7,359 3,900
Final Dividend on Ordinary Shares, 4% (making
8% for the year) .. 27,768
35,127 24,700
Transfer to Reserve u’soo 12 231
Carry Forward • • • 14 ’ M)U 1Z ’ ZJ1
£69,927 £46,931
BALANCE SHEET:
Due to the notable expansion of the
Company’s operations in the year,
the figures assume a different com-
plexion when compared with those
of the preceding year. The taking
over of the undertakings at Bunda-
berg, Broken Hill and Ballarat has
resulted in increases in Preference
Share Capital by £111,810, and in
Ordinary Share Capital by £138,248.
Also in May 130,000 new £1 Ordin-
ary Shares were issued to Share-
holders at par; this issue being over-
subscribed without recourse to the
Underwriters. A feature of the new
issue was the interest shown by the
Company’s investors and employees,
in the localities throughout the three
States where the Company operates.
The number of Shareholders has
increased to 2,358 (from 1,502) and
74 employees own shares.
Reference to the Statistical Record
will show that: —
Shareholders’ Funds have increased
by £465,450 to £1,202,386.
Reserve Accounts have increased to
£162,795. J t
Total Assets have Increased by
£740,116 to £2,070,001.
Distributable profit has increased by
£25,269 to £88,831.
These figures are a very good
indication of the progress and achieve-
ment made.
PROFIT:
The profit after depreciation and
income tax (now increased to 8/- in
the £1) is satisfactory. It includes the
earnings of the three new Branches
taken over, although the Ballarat Com-
pany’s accounts are for 11 months
only, so that in future its financial
period will be in harmony with the
main Company. These three new
Branches are all being continued as
Subsidiary Companies—that is to say,
they continue to function as separate
legal entities, or local companies, but
their shares are owned by The Gas
Supply Company Limited, which
carries out the functions of Manage-
ment. /
The total distributable profit has
increased to the amount of £88,831
(£63,562 last year), which permits the
transfer of £20,000 to Reserve (£10,000
last year), and the payment of Ordin-
ary dividend of 8 per cent, for the
year and the Fixed Cumulative 6 per
cent, dividend on the Preference
shares.
The Directors are very satisfied with
the progress made and the condition
of the Company’s affairs in every
section.
SALES:
The total volume of gas sold for the
year was 927,437,000 cubic feet, which
includes the sales by the three new
Branches.
Over all Branches, the increase was
5£% over the volume sold in the
preceding year.
The demand for coke and tar
exceeded the supply, so the Company
has become a distributor of brown
coal briquettes at Victorian Branches.
Showrooms and offices of the
Branches have been improved con-
siderably. The Company owns several
fine properties for this purpose, and
leases others. All are of excellent
standard.
The sales of gas appliances again
reached record figures in volume and
value. A series of selling campaigns
featured in turn gas cookers, gas
operated refrigerators, gas hot water
services and space heaters. The results
as regards refrigerators and hot water
services were a highlight. In the
Commercial and Industrial fields, the
increased number of installations was
highly satisfactory.
NEW BRANCHES:
The Companies taken over are all in
large thriving towns.
Bundaberg is about 270 miles north
of Brisbane, has a population ol
20,000 and is the centre of a very
prosperous sugar-growing area.
Broken Hill, known as the “Silver
City,” has a population of 31,000 and
is recognised throughout the world
for its production of Silyer and Lead,
reserves of which are estimated to last
for at least fifty years.
Ballarat is the largest inland city in
Victoria, with a population of over
48,000. It is the centre of a prosper-
ous farming district, as well as being
an industrial centre.
At all of these places, good
organisations are set up, and much
forward work has been planned. An
excellent potential exists in each for
healthy and profitable growth.
EMPLOYEES:
We now have 531 employees, serving
the Company well under good condi-
tions which we hope to maintain and
improve as time goes on. Seventy-four
of them are shareholders. The
amounts standing to the credit of
members in the Provident Funds is
£110,000, and in addition, members
are insured for £44,500 in the
Provident Fund Group Insurance
Scheme.
Having reached the retiring age,
Mr. P. L. Slade, Manager of Colac,
and Mr. P. W. Smith, Manager of
Goulburn, are retiring. Both have
given long and faithful service to the
Company, and we wish them well in
their years of leisure.
We wish to convey to Branch
Managers and Staffs at all Branches,
our high appreciation of another year
of successful effort.
GENERAL CONDITIONS:
The Company’s activities are -spread
over the three Eastern States of Aus-
tralia. In the areas in which it
operates, the seasonal conditions have
been good. Inflation is, however,
again with us and costs have been,
and still are, rising. We have managed
to absorb much of these through
increased sales, but some prices have
been increased and others may have to
be.
Continual attention is being given
to improvements in manufacturing
plants and distribution systems. All
are in good shape.
Other than the acquisition of three
new Branches, no abnormal factors
affected the business of the Company
throughout the year.
DIRECTORS’ FEES:
The Directors’ fees Were fixed at £200
per director per year in September,
1948. Since that date the Company’s
activities have greatly increased —the
revenue last year being 5£ times that
of 1948. We suggest a figure of £300
per year. (AU fees received from
Subsidiary Companies by Directors of
The Gas Supply Company Limited are
repaid to The Gas Supply Company
Limited.)
THE FUTURE:
The Company is in good condition.
Its business is very well spread
throughout prosperous areas and we
look forward to the future with con-
fidence.
For and on behalf of the Board,
R. A. Schuchard,
Chairman.


Experienced
Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet getting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone vt
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
The Trustees executors & Agency
COMPANY LID.
Incorporated in Vietorin in 1171
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
TR37.35
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BUSH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H.
. M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell-
David
K.8.E.,
Wilson, M.A., LLB., <?.C. IChairman)
C.M.©., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heff
; J. Cadwalladar; Sir Laslie Morshaad, K.C.8.,
ar; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co., Ltd.
SINCE Capital Issues Control let
G. J. Coles off the leash in 1948 the
paid capital of the co. has climbed from
£1.4 million to nearly £7 million, while
total assets have leapt from £3.5 million
to £lB.B million.
Expanding at a remarkable rate, the
Australia-wide chain of stores has been
extended by a vigorous building pro-
gramme, while skilful management has
steered the co. from one “take-over” to
another, achieving in a minimum of time
the reorganisation and consolidation
normally necessary after such trans-
actions.
The purchase of Penneys, Ltd., from
Burns, Philp in the current term (cost to
Coles £1,925,000) was the latest move in
a programme of expansion that has
included the acquisition of the Stewart
Dawson properties, Selfridges, Sydney
Arcade, F. & G. Stores and Manton and
Sons in the space of seven years. Open-
ing 16 stores in 12 months, the co. was
trading in 204 stores at June 30 last, while
the Penneys deal will add another 40 to
that total.
A one-for-five par issue early in the
term brought in £961,585, and, including
£150,000 in 8 p.c. prefs., paid capital will
be only £487 short of £7 million when
the exchange of scrip with Penney’s share-
holders is finalised.
Turnover for the year completed June
30 last improved by 15.5 p.c. to £36.9
million, and, although the ratio of net
earnings to sales fell from 3.6 p.c. to
3.3 p.c. (due to heavier co.-tax), net profit
increased by £94,863 to £1,246,728 after
allowing £267,491 (up £55,811) for
depreciation and £850,000 (up £170,000)
for taxation:
i f Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £,£,£,
’53 699,644 12,000 15 p.c.=647,233 140,411 1,242,211-
Revaluation assets, £1,363,516 ..2,605,727
Share premiums, £28,558 .. ..2,634,285
From tax reserve, £189,192 .. .. 2,823,377
Profit sale assets, £4215 .. .. 2,827,592
Goodwill, etc. w/off, £61,510 ..2,766,4)82
’54 865,938 12,000 15 p.e.-554,751 299,187 3,065,269
To staff fund, £50,000 .. ..3,015,269
Tax overprovided, £41,674 .. ..3,056,943
Profit sale assets, £555 .. ..3,057,498
To asset revaluation reserve, £5545.. 3,05i,953
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £114,705 ..2,937,248
’55 1,151,865 12,000 15 p.c.=721,189 418,676 3,355,924
To staff fund, £60,000 .. ..3,295,924
Profit sale assets, £52,087 .. ..3,348,011
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £50,842 ..3,297,169
Tax overprovided, £20,020 .. .. 3,317,189
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 3,267,189
’56 1,246,728 12,000 15 p.c.=892,405 342,323 3,609,512
•After deducting goodwill (£54,000), which was
rubbed out of the books in 1964.
Ord. div., unchanged at 15 p.c., required
an extra £171,216 to cover the larger
capital, but this was easily found, earn-
ings equalling a return of 20.7 p.c. on
ord. capital (after satisfying the pref.-
holders), compared with 23.7, 23.1, 18.8,
12.5 and 14.7 p.c. in the preceding five
years. The profit amounted to 12.8 p.c.
of total shareholders’ funds.
Despite the additions to share-capital
over recent years, shareholders’ funds
account for only 51.5 p.c. of the balance-
sheet totals, the growth of the co. being
assisted by finance obtained through'
mortgage and the issue of unsecured
notes. Negotiations are in progress for
the private issue of 7 p.c. notes to the
value of £500,000, £900,000 coming from
the issue of 6 p.c. notes during the term,
while mortgages increased by £57,105
after meeting a £270,000 repayment.
Funds available from new capital and
retained earnings were also augmented
by an increase of £54,076 in the over-
draft, and £528,941 in the amount due to
creditors:
Capital— 1954. 19551 * 1956.
Ord. .. £4,321,413 £4,807,928 5,949,513
Pref. .. 160,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves ~ 3,015,269 3,295,923 3,609,511
Notes .. .. 600,000 1,500,000
Mortgages . . 2,369,800 2,341,000 2,398,105
Overdraft . . 172,866 196,942
Creditors . . 850.031 1,114,844 1,643,785
Owing to subsids. 565.391 760,318 1,829,074
Employees’ funds 72,042 88,065 107,080
Tax reserve .. 600,000 680,000 850,000
Final div. .. 369,841 480,793 594,951
£12,613,787 £14,491,737 £15,828,9G1
Freeholds* .. 5,842,625 6,746,323 7,111,808
Leaseholds .. 414,529 861,014 1,246,951
Fittings, etc... 1,093,460 1,539,071 2,403,538
Shares subsids. 1,089,583 1,038,830 2,658,830
Stocks .. 3,848,770 4,141,708 6,239,228
Debtors .. 118,260 120,017 108,180
Cash, etc. .. 261,560 44,774 60,420
£12,613,787 £14,491,737 £18,828,961
* After deducting unpaid balance on purchase—
• £89,520 freeholds at June 30, 1950.
Capital-expenditure added £1.6 million
to fixed assets (shown mainly at ’54
valuation or cost), half of this sum going
on fixtures and plant used in newly-
opened stores and the recently-completed
Melbourne warehouse. The development
of Canberra has attracted a number of
retailers to that city, and Coles’ first
store in the Federal capital was opened
during the term. Shares in subsidiary
cos. are shown at net asset valuation,
with the exception of the investment in
Man ton and Sons (£1,620,000), which is
shown at cost. Working-capital grew by
£278,145 to £2,015,076, heavier stocks
(up £1,097,520) equalling 14.1 p.c. of
turnover, compared with 12.9 p.c. at the
close of the previous term.
Both Coles and Woolworths, the two
major variety-chain-store owners, have
displayed phenomenal growth over the
last seven or eight years, and it seems
most likely that the demands of a grow-
ing population will support their con-
tinued expansion, with shareholders being
asked to provide most of the new capital
required. Looking for further capital-
gains, the market prices the ss. ords. at
17s. 6d. to return 4.2 p.c., the £1 8 p.c.
prefs. bringing 255. 9d. to yield 6.2 p.c.
Each pref. share is supported by
£64 14s. 6d. of net tangible assets, the
backing for the ords. amounting to Bs.
/
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd.
■pOLLOWING a decade of profitable
A development, expansion proceeded at
an accelerated pace during Elder’s 117th
year, completed on June 30 last. Parent
and subsidiary cos. recorded a combined
turnover in excess of £lO6 million, while
the absorption of Commonwealth Wool
and Produce Co., Ltd. (Sydney), and
N.E.N.C.0., Ltd. (Newcastle), preceded
negotiations which led to the acquisition,
in the current term, of N. M. Loutit,
Ltd. (Alice Springs), and control of
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Primarily a woolbroker, the co.’s
interests extend over a wide field, as can
be seen from the following table showing
turnover in the major departments:
1955. 1956.*
Wool £40.499,022 £40,373,648
Merchandise ~ .. 23,466,000 23,022,078
Livestock . . . . 19,761,500 25,617,352
Real estate ~ .. 6,085,200 5,076,012,
Skins and hides .. 1,392,800 1,901,621
* Including subsidiary.
Insurance, shipping and banking activities
also contribute to income.
Completed early in the term, the
first issue to shareholders in 15 years
(three-for-five at a 6s. premium) added
£1,695,780 to paid capital, a further
100,000 shares being made available to
employees. Paid capital will reach £5.3
million when the Moreheads purchase
is completed, earlier absorptions lifting it
to £4,968,998 at the close of the term.
The £1 shares are paid to 125., with the
uncalled amount regarded as an
“ultimate” reserve.
The co. sold 606,528 bales of wool
during’ the term, compared with 448,336
bales in the previous season (before the
acquisition of Commonwealth Wool), and
with subsidiaries accounted for 15.36 p.c.
of total sales by brokers. Consolidated
figures show a higher turnover from
almost all departments, the parent co.
contributing £94,193,601 (down £129,001)
to the total turnover of £106,220,464.
Lower wool prices, higher co.-tax,
increased wage-margins and the small
reduction in gross income are reflected
in the parent’s accounts, net profit
slipping by £12,408 to £797,783 after
allowing £404,749 (up £39,357) for depre-
ciation and £837,480 (up £148,668) for
land, payroll and income taxes:
Parent Co. Only.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 419,095 10 p.c. = 282,630 136,465 2,016,707
To provident fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,991,707
1953.. 685,740 10 p.c. = 282,630 303,110 2,294,817
To provident fund, £45,000 ~2,249,817
1954.. 648,854 12 p.c. = 339,156 309,698 2,559,515
To provident fund, £42,823 .. .. 2,516,692
Share premiums, £847,890 .. .. 8,364,582
1955.. 810,191 12 p.c. = 434,002 376,189 3,740,771
To provident fund, £52,554 .. .. 8,688,217
Share issue exes., etc., £64,108 .. 3,624,109
1956.. 797,783 11 p.c. = 545,254 252,529 3,876,638
Share-premiums, £416,045 .. .. 4,291,683
To provident fund, £38,431 .. .. 4,253,252
The div. was dropped from 12 to 11 p.c.
But an additional £111,252 was required
to service the larger capital, £214,098
going to reserves and £38,431 (down
£14,123) in special grants to the provident
fund. Earnings represented a return of
16.1 p.c. on average capital, compared
with 20.8, 22.9, 20.7 and 14.8 p.c. over
the previous four years.
The continued demand for finance sent
advances, etc., up by £1,268,006, and,
although new branch premises were con-
structed or bought in several areas, there
was a net increase of only £547 in the
conservatively valued fixed assets:
Parent 00. Only.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £2,826,300 £4,476,157 £4,968,998
Reserves .. 2,516,692 3,624,109 4,263,252
Deposits, etc... 557,434 1,170,290 1,299,440
Sundry creditors,
etc 12,683,494 9,497,421 10,418,081
Tax provision.. 032,814 046,500 788,652
Final div. .. 197,841 292,687 298,140
£19,414,575 £19,707,170 £22,021,503
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2,403,340 2,790,934 2,791,481
Govt, securities
and cash . . 0,605,483 5,345,594 4,955,782
Advances, etc. 8.067,250 9,041,110 10,309,116
Owing by sub-
sidiaries .. 739,198
Stocks.. .. 1,794,599 2,063,479 1,929,150
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 45,405 45,405 1,002,657
Shares other cos. 420,648 420,648 294,179
£19,414,575 £19,707,170 £22,021,563
Exceeding £22 million, total assets
include £1,002,675 (book-value) of shares
in subsidiary cos., no consolidated
balance-sheet being published. Creditors
(up £933,660), deposits (up £129,144),
with retained earnings and a reduction
of £389,812 in cash, Government
securities, etc., provided funds for the
increased advances and the subsidiaries’
debt of £739,198 (compared with a £7136
credit at the commencement of the term).
The additions to paid capital were largely
due to “take-over” issues, £45,923 coming
from subscribers to the three-for-five
issue mentioned earlien
Prices obtained at new-season wool-
sales give promise of a successful season,
with the consequent lift in the co.’s
earnings ensuring a reasonable return
from the enlarged capital.
Paid to 125., the £1 shares are covered
by net tangible assets of 225. 3d., the
market pricing them at 235. 6d. to return
5.6 p.c. from an 11 p.c. distribution.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
COMMITTED to a programme of plant-
replacement and the modernisation
of a number of its hotel properties, the co.
has put its distributions to shareholders
on a pretty modest basis over the last few
years. On paid capital which includes
£150,000 bonus-scrip distributed out of
a revaluation of the company’s freeholds
in 1950, divs. since then have averaged
5.1 p.c. a year. Last term, with the end of
rebuilding in sight, half a point was added
to the djv.-rate (making 6£ p.c.), although
net earnings dipped a little below the
1955 figure.
Sales of beer, particularly the bottled
kind, fell-off over the closing months of
the term following the increase in excise
duty, but both the wine and spirit offshoot
(Traders Pty., Ltd.) and the cordial sec-
tion of the business, where changes were
made during the year in selling policy
had substantially better turnovers.
Overall income from hotel rentals, the
cordial factory and the co.’s investment
in Traders and Tasmanian Breweries Pty.,
Ltd. (which brews and bottles the Cascade
brand), rose £4544 to £159,598 but, except
for the repairs and rates bill, all operating
expenses were higher, and depreciation
(£21,467) and tax (£33,000) provisions
claimed another £9346, leaving profit for
the year £3731 lighter at £63,239:
To .Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve*.
£> £>£,£,
1953.. 48,141 5 p.c. = 27,873 20,768 287,828
To staff fund, £l6 .. .. .. 287,818
Tax written back, £7186 .. .. 294,499
Unexplained reduction, £4lB .. 294,081
1954.. 52,511 5 p.c. = 30,00 0 2 2,011 316,592
Tax overprovided, £729 .. .. 317,384
Profit sale assets, £27,234 .. .. 344,618
Written off freeholds, £1505.. .. 343,113
Unexplained addition, £l9O .. 348,308
1955.. 66,970 6 p.c. = 36,000 30,970 374,278
Tax overprovided, £2512 .. .. 376,790
Profit sale assets, £16,115 .. .. 392,906
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 898,666
1956.. 63,239 61 p.c. = 39,000 24,239 417,894
As a percentage of paid capital the
£63,239 was 10.5, as against 11.2 in 1955
and 7.1, 9, 9.4 and 9.6 back to 1951.
Not included in that figure is the over-
provision of £2512 for income-tax or the
£16,115 profit from the sale of the Flem-
ington hotel. Proceeds from the sale of
this freehold and the Criterion in the
previous term have gone some of the way
towards meeting the cost of remodelling
other hotel properties.
This expenditure accounted for most
of the £66,000 laid out on fixed assets in
the 1955-56 term. By the middle of next
year the building programme should be
completed, after which it would be reason-
able to expect a further lift in the
dividend, subject, of course, to the level
at which beer-consumption finally settles.
The year’s net addition to freeholds,
including the Cascade brewery, was
£54,071. Plant and machinery, at cost less
depreciation, was down £10,166:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves . . . . 316,592 374,278 417,894
A.M.P. Society’s
loan . . . . 156,343 150,010 148,463
Mortgage . . . . 4,000 4,000 4,000
Other creditors .. 68,831 66,034 89,954
Tax provision .. 26,000 3 0,500 38,000
Final divs. .. 15,000 21,000 24,000
£1,186,766 £1,245,822 £1,312,311
Brewery, hotels, etc. 680,948 708,830 762,901
Plant, fittings . . 295,301 329,768 319,597
Shares in other cos. 57.04 C 57,046 57,046
Stocks on hand .. 54,300 65,084 102,417
Debtors .. .. 25,542 32,063 64,910
Cadi, Government
bonds .. .v 73,629 53,036 15,440
£1,186,566 £1,245,822 £1,312,311
Over the last five years £158,577 has been
added to the book-value of freeholds and
£143,257 to plant, etc., including £22,175
due on the sale of freehold property.
Current assets exceeded liabilities by
£51,272 when the books closed.
The scrip (par 215., paid to 205.), which
fetched 40s. (ex bonus-issue) in Sep-
tember, 1950, and had dropped to 235. 6d.
two years ago, recently stood at 21s. in
the market for a return of 6.2 p.c. Cover
provided by net tangibles is 335. lid.
a share.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
T AST year’s one-for-two bonus-issue
was the first change in capital since
the co. was formed in 1911 to take over
from the Queensland National Bank the
old Millaquin and Yengarie Sugar Co.,
which had fallen on hard times in 1893.
After distributing the £250,000 gift-
scrip (financed by writing-up the value of
the co.’s buildings by that amount) paid
capital stood at £750,000 in 10s. shares,
on which the co. managed without diffi-
culty a 15 p.c. div. out of last terms
o Continued on page 19)


<• c plijg <.»** > &#%y &**& ’*&*&'%s?&
:
f.f m\*
. <w^.
“ «*
Tli*.,.. .J
:V :- :!: '- : :-' '' J T
: **
sMsiteisife
:-.. >
SjJLA
-. - ’
- *' ;
liiiiiiil
1
mm
ml
'■■ *£?*i <- --
11 II - |
'' : ill
;
11 1
m &ss
- i
;
p «SiHN
~ -
m
fj
f f 8 «
;«WW
JE
. ,-'-C
Head Office of The City Mutual Life
at 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
■ flo
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO THE POLICTHOLDERS
To Men of Property
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being
sold to pay death duties? It can happen
to you. Death duties' must be paid in
cash before your heirs can inherit. The
City Mutual Life has a policy to provide
this cash so that your assets go
unencumbered to your heirs.
For further information , write, ’phone or
call the nearest office of the Society.
The City Mutual belongs to the policyholders —over 137,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection and security of City Mutual policies. The sur-
plus for last year was a record at Bonuses to policyholders
were substantially raised. Profits are returned to .policyholders, each year,
in the form of bonuses.
SAVE INCOME TAX. Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could
be securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember, you can pay up to
£3OO yearly in premiums and deduct it from your income tax return. By this
means, a proportion of your investment in assurance is actually paid for you.
There is a type of City Mutual policy to suit every individual need.
Enquiries, forwarded to our Head Office in your State, will receive immediate
attention, without obligation.
. The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
assurance SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. iBjB
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 8W2021.
9'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: FA 2371.
W.A.: Citv Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Telephone: BF 1451.
Vie.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: LA 4831.
Tos.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Telephone: B 2504.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Many guests were entertained at a
buffet-luncheon in the Showgrounds
council-chambers by president of the
Royal Agricultural Society T. N.
Mitchell. Miss Florence Mitchell, who
wore with her white-spotted grey jacket-
suit a small winter-white hat swathed
with tulle in light- and dark-grey
tonings, assisted her brother receive the
guests. Helping with the entertaining
were R.A.S. secretary H. T. C. Wood-
full and Mrs. Woodfull, she in carbon-
blue linen suit and matching wide-
brimmed hat.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
R. A. Trollope (South Africa); Mr. V.
Hirst, who came from Yorkshire to
judge dogs; Mr. and Mrs. Colin Ross,
of Glen Innes, N.S.W. (he will judge
the Aberdeen Angus cattle); Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Stephens (he is president of
the Guernsey Cattle Society); Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Luke, Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Ronald, Mr. and Mrs. Selwyn Scott, Sir
William and Lady Angliss, Sir Clive
McPherson and his daughter Marian,
Cr. and Mrs. H. Lyall, Mr. and Mrs.
Ted Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. Lance
Cunningham, Mr. and Mrs. Trevor
Clarke (Dunkeld), Mr. and Mrs. David
Knox (Nagambie) and Mr. and Mrs.
Alex Creswick.
' ☆ ☆ ☆
A feature of the dinner-dance at the
Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, which was
organised by the Clyde Old Girls’
Association and the Parents Committee,
was the lovely floral decorations —from
every pillar hanging baskets filled with
white and gold daffodils, and at the back
of the official enclosure, set with candlelit
tables, huge urns of greenery and spring
blossoms. Lady Murdoch, patroness of
the ball, wore a graceful gown of mist-
blue French-crepe patterned in white lace.
The chairman of the ball-committee, Mrs.
Bill Murray, chose a gown of sapphire-
blue lace, the skirt short and bouffant,
the bodice featuring a heart-shaped
neckline.
Among the dancers were Jan Ward,
wearing a ballerina frock of white tulle
which carried bead-embroidery; Mrs.
Neil Clerehan, whose strapless gown was
of mist-blue taffeta; Mrs. Basil Fitchett,
whose slim gown of aqua-green moire-
faille featured a back-drape; Mrs. Max
Gaylard, in a formal gown of White
Chantilly-lace, the bodice of which had
long, tight-fitting sleeves; Patricia
Luxton, who wore full-skirted gown of
buttercup-yellow rose-printed organza;
and Dallas Heath (Geelong) and Eliza-
beth Burston, both of whom chose,
pretty white gowns. Proceeds of the
dinner-dance, at which the headmistress
of Clyde, Miss Olga Hay, was present,
.will go to the school’s Memorial Building
Fund.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Mabel Brookes was guest-of-
honor at a late-afternoon champagne-
party and mannequin-parade held at the
Toorak home of Mrs. David Warford-
Mein by the Raveloe Auxiliary of the
Animal Welfare League, of which Mrs.
Warford-Mein is president. There were
300 present. Dame Mabel chose a frock
of pink-and-oyster brocade and a mink
stole. Lady Bridgeford wore sea-blue
tulle trimmed with sequins, Mrs.
Warford-Mein a slim black frock.
Among the guests were Mrs. Dick
Doyle, who topped her black frock with
a Tudor bonnet of black velvet trimmed
with pearls; Mrs. Peter Lynch, whose
choice was a smart black cocktail-frock;
twin sisters Patricia and Elizabeth
Mildred, Pamela Middleton, Clarissa
Starey, Mrs. Derek Rumbold, Mrs. John
Warlow, Mrs. Neil Evans' (who was
responsible for the lovely flower-decora-
tions), Dr. and Mrs. Rex Walpole, Mrs.
Eric Fullarton and Margaret Cox. The
parade of clothes, which ranged from
beachwear to formal evening-gowns,
came from George’s, of Collins-street.
# # V
Dame Mary Daly has sent out invita-
tions for the marriage of her daughter
Marie with Major Kevin Purcell, to take
place at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on Sep-
tember 29, with reception to follow in
the Lower Town Hall. Mrs. Ronald
Colgan will be matron-of-honor: Marie
has been guest-of-honor at several
parties ; there was a kitchen-tea at Mrs.
Colgan’s East Malvern home, hostessed
by Joyce Date; Mr. and Mrs. A. A.
Calwell gave her a shower-tea at their
Ascot Vale home, attended by 60 guests ;
and another party was given by Dr. and
Mrs. W. J. Flanagan at their home in
Kew.
Trained in art at Melbourne Technical
College, Anne Fraser has made a career
in theatre-set designing—her first with
the National Theatre; the sets for “Saint
Joan.” For a time she worked as a com-
mercial-artist, but when Ray Lawler went
to the Union Theatre, as director of the
Repertory Company, Anne was appointed
permanent set-designer. She did the
original sets for Lawler’s “Summer of the
17th Doll,” and they will be used in the
English production. Anne also did the
sets for the Little Theatre production of
“Tiger at the Gate,” and for “Arms and
the Man,” which the Union Theatre
Reps, took on country tour. Photo by
Helmut Newton.
More than 130 young people attended
the delightful coming-out party given by
Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens at their
home in Toorak for their daughter
Diana. The large reception-rooms were
decorated with huge bowls of spring-
flowers. Diana wore a short re-
embroidered French - silver - threaded
Princess frock in net. Her mother chose
a short pervenche-blue guipure-lace
frock, her younger sister Fay a short
bouffant pink nylon-tulle frock, which
had a large bustle-bow of pink satin.
Suzanne Szwieca was attractive in a
draped sheath-frock of royal-blue chiffon.
Mary Bannerman’s choice was a lemon-
toned Swiss-embroidered organza frock.
Deanna Dabscheck danced in a gold
taffeta frock which had a long torso and
full skirt. Diana Cooper wore rose-pink
taffetas, Virginia Finlay white Chantiliy-
lace, with the pattern outlined with gold
thread. Wendy Woolcott’s polished-
cotton frock was in gay red, black and
white stripes. Gail Challingsworth’s
white tulle skirt was teamed with a
strapless bodice trimmed with black
sequins.
Penny Lane was in white tulle, Carol
Smith in turquoise-blue satin-brocade.
Doreen Beville’s pale-yellow tulle frock
had the strapless top trimmed with
sequins and rhinestones. Mrs. A. Jones’s
American gown was of white Honan-silk
patterned in gold fir-trees and green
leaves. Mrs. Kenneth Dane wore a pretty
pink taffeta frock, Mrs. Bill Glover scarlet
organza patterned in large white roses.
Mrs. M. Ress wore a black dinner-frock.
SYDNEY
Television’s debut during the week was
rather unobtrusive. Most people who
have seen it are charmed and delighted
because “It’s so very clear,” but do not
seem to have any idea as to whether it is
entertaining or not. Sets are selling
well at £2OO to £3OO each, which, with the
licence-fee of £5, should strike many a
family-budget quite a staggering blow.
One thing is certain —we will not be able
to afford both TV and potatoes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Looking very springlike themselves,
the young lovelies of the Black and White
Ball’s junior committee decorated the
Pickwick with masses of blossom, woolly
lambs (some black) and butterflies for
their Spring Fantasy Dance, the proceeds
of which will help the Royal Blind
Society. President Mary Stephen, look-
ing charming in white lace and nylon-
net, welcomed 150 guests. (Her papa,
Bob Stephen, had donated the party, so
that everything was profit. Wasn t that
nice?)
There were some stunning dresses to be
seen. Wendy Lloyd Jones allied modern-
art motifs to blue taffeta in a way that
blue taffeta had never known before, and
notable also were Mrs. David Boyce in
black net, Mrs. John Atwill, Mrs. Dick
Harford (lovely embroidered silk dress),
Mrs. Neville Munro and Mrs. John
Coghlan. >.
☆ 3 *
Another Springtime Ball was held at
Prince’s during the week in aid of the
deaf, dumb and blind children. The
feature of the evening was a display of
model gowns, fabulous furs, staggering
hats and diamond-jewellery. Compere
was Bettina Welch, who (with her
husband, Dermot O’Brien) was the guest
of the president of the social-committee,
Mrs. S. Lands, and Mr. Lands. Those
who entertained parties included Mrs.
Roy Harrison, Mrs. Alan Graham and
Mrs. M. A. Aldritt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Went along to the afternoon meeting
of the English Speaking Union at which
Lady Bissett was billed to speak on her
recent trip to Hong Kong, but found that
the subject was changed to her not-at-all
recent arrival in Australia. Still, Lady
Bissett is always interesting and amusing,
and any talk she gives is an entertain-
ment. Her side-comments, such as, “I
can recommend sailors as husbands. I
really can. You can get away from
them!” tend to become part of the
language. Her husband, Sir James
Bissett, by the way, is now president of
the English Speaking Union. At the
meeting on Thursday the hostess was
Mrs. C. Roy Nilsson.
Mfrs. W. E. Hopkins, of Killara, was
matron-of-honor at the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball at the Town Hall lasi Friday, and
presented 15 debutantes to the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Kenneth Street. Among
the debs, was Barbara West, who looked
charming in a dress of white guipure-lace
and tulle designed by herself, and who,
although totally blind, enjoyed the ball to
the full, dancing every dance and chatting
with the guests with poise and vivacity.
Mrs. Hopkins’s photo is by Norton-
Trevaire.
The ball, always a happy occasion, was
well attended again this year, and the
Town Hall was decorated as a Japanese
garden, masses of fresh-growing flowers,
fountains and lighted lanterns giving it
an air of delicate beauty. The Lieut.-
Governor was accompanied by his
daughter, Mrs. Donald Mackay, and was
welcomed by Lord Mayor Aid. P. D.
Hills and Mrs. Hills, she wearing a lovely
gown of white chiffon and lace. The
Premier and Mrs. J. J. Cahill were present:
Also Rear-Admiral Buchanan, with Mrs.
Buchanan, and Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward,' with Mrs. Woodward. The
proceeds of the" ball go to the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund, which benefits
nine charities.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Bing Molyneux, on a visit to
Sydney from Melbourne, was among the
large party which her sister, Mrs. Tom
Bateman, entertained at the- Lady
Mayoress’s Ball. Another visitor to
Sydney at the ball was Pam Cleaver, of
Nealy, Girilambone, who marries Douglas
Powell on October 2. Her aunt, Mrs.
C. M. Guiney, entertained Pam, her
fiance and her brother Peter in her party
on Friday night.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Flora Eldershaw, who died at
Wagga during the week, was parffauthor,
with Miss Marjorie Barnard, of the noveT
A House Is Built, which won the first
Bulletin novel-competition 28 years ago.
A graduate of Sydney University, Miss
Eldershaw was at the time senior mistress
at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Croy-
don ; she had been secretary of the
University Women’s Union from 1917 to
1921. She had eight other books to her
credit. In the war years she was
industrial consultant and an officer in
the Department of Labor and National
Service.
☆ ☆ ☆
Will Sydney men ever get away from
the heavy-worsted suit in summer? A
new type of cloth, basically calico with
a special finish, which has just been
introduced to the market, should offer
them some hope. Humidity and heat do
not affect its freshness, and it is wash-
able, unshrinkable and creaseless. Best
of all, it needs no ironing (this will win
the wives’ votes). Named Helikon, it
has been made in England, and its first
shipments will go to the tropics, but the
summer after next may see Sydney’s men
surviving the February heat with more
equanimity.
☆. ☆ ☆
A note from an appreciative student,
“Ladimac”: Sydney will lose two of its
well-known theatrical personalities when
Judy Rathbone Lawless and Winifred
Hindle leave for England on September
29. »They came to Australia eight years
ago, and here they founded the Rathbone
Academy of Dramatic Art, of which I am
a student. Winifred Hindle has become
well known to Sydney audiences in such
plays as “Dear Charles,” and in radio,
and Judy Lawless has also founded the
Linguists’ Club along the lines of the
club at which she was senior English
lecturer in London. One thing we are
wondering is how the academy will get on
without Miss Lawless’s humorous
Saturday-morning newspaper-advertise-
ments, such as the series which listed
the subjects from A to Z, and “L for the
lovely lasses in which the academy
abounds” made us hope that Miss Lawless
believed in truth in advertising.
# * V
A visit to the exhibition of child-art
at the Starlight Room of the Australia
proved very rewarding during the week.
Organised by the Australian Council for
Child Advancement in aid .of the R.P.A.
Rehabilitation Appeal, it showed the
work not only of Australian children but
also of English, European, American and
Chinese youngsters, all displaying in their
fresh spontaneity the outlook and way of
life in the lands in which they live. The
French showed splashes of color, full of
fierce and brilliant imaginings, the
Chinese a traditional delicate airiness
(one exhibit was a mouse and chicken
by a four-year-old child), the Russians
stylised landscapes, executed to perfec-
tion, the Australians a variety of impres-
sions, many expressed with vigor.
The exhibition, said secretary Mrs. M.
Kempster, was a curtain-raiser for a tour
of N.S.W. and inter-State country towns
which begins at Blackheath in November.
It is a show full of interest and liveliness.
☆.☆ . ☆
Noted, too, that Chips Rafferty is to
make a personal appearance at the
premiere of “Walk Into Paradise,” his
New Guinea film, at the Metro, King's
Cross, on October 5. Proceeds are for
the Red Cross Lady Gowrie Nurses’
Home.
CANBERRA
Canberra’s lovely blossom and spring
flowers, now at their peak of perfection,
were effectively used to decorate the
Albert Hall for the annual ball of St.
Patrick’s Parish Convent, the first since
the parish was divided last year, in keep-
ing with the steady growth of the federal
capital. Small mixed bowls of hyacinths
and snowdrops lent color and frdgrance
to the supper-tables.
The ball was arranged by a committee
headed by Mrs. A. McNab and Mrs. E.
Burn, joint presidents, to raise funds for
the teaching-Sisters of St. Patrick’s and
St. Joseph’s schools. The official party
included Mr. and Mrs. A. T. McNab,
she wearing a full-skirted frock of
electric - pink duchesse - satin with a
cleverly-rucked bodice and a matching
stole; Mrs. E. Burn, who chose a
ballerina frock in Ming-blue taffeta ; Mr.
W. Gleeson and his wife, who is secre-
tary of the committee, and who wore a
long frock in mushroom-pink satin which
had the bodice embroidered with clusters
of small seed-pearls. Dean McGilvray
and Father O’Donnell were among the
official guests, who also included members
of the schools’ auxiliaries.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
Ko charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. RU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd. '
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
jACKSOiy 4
O'SUHJVAUr
i mem
t»3 aet*S
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES"
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Missing Friends
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of MRS. ANNIE MOSS, wife of
EDWARD MOSS, late of Dee Why, kindly
telephone MESSRS. ALFRED J. MORGAN
& SON, Solicitors, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney, BW 8244.
STANLEY RICHARD HAYTER formerly
of Eastwood, N.S.W., Builder, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with AUBREY lIALLORAN, 28
Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., when he
will receive something to his advantage.
GLASS.—WILL any person knowing the
present whereabouts of EDWARD NELSON
GLASS, son of the late EDWARD and
JANE GLASS, formerly of Sale, Victoria,
please communicate with the EQUITY
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne?
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
. «
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
LIFE ASSURANCE
'etvice
FOR
©D
YEARS
"V
L
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
m
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
in ihc
Discovery of a vast bauxite deposit at Weipa
Mission, in-the Gulf of Carpentaria, is one more
proof of the unsuspected wealth that lies in the
soil of Australia. «
The Weipa country, on the western side of
Cape York Peninsula, is poor to the eye; a tract
of land where even native game is scarce, and where
consequently few aborigines live on the mission
reserve.
But now—and this is an instance of Faith
finding reality behind the surface scene —it promises
to give us a source of vast new wealth in raw
material for the manufacture of aluminium.
The value of the discovery, in national terms,
is inestimable. Aluminium will be needed in
increasing supply. The world is short of it now.
And though Australia uses less, per head of
population, than some other countries, the demand
for it on our home market is rising.
America is producing less bauxite and buying
more from abroad. We ourselves / have to import
all we want for our infant aluminium industry at
Bell Bay, Tasmania. If the quality of the Weipa
discovery is proved high it could make us
self-contained for aluminium.
Of course such wealth requires both cheap
power and efficient transport for its winning. The
huge Alcan project in British Columbia is a perfect
example of that. Started from a virgin site in 1951,
this great hydro-driven undertaking —one of the
constructional engineering marvels of our time—
was producing in 1954.
There is no bauxite on the spot. To supply the
Alcan smelters, alumina concentrates have to be
shipped through the Panama Canal from bauxite
works on Jamaica. Australia may have to do a
similar job of highly organised haulage from the
Gulf of Carpentaria to wed this project to power.
But we have the bauxite! And I firmly believe
that other rich mineral discoveries will be made
in Australia’s north to give a balancing brilliance
to our country’s industrial expansion.
// Y €
7
bigger profits. On capital as it
stood before the bonus the
distribution represented 22} p.c.
Greater efficiencies were
obtained from the new plant, and,
despite heavier costs and a
smaller crushing (due to bad
weather), the lift in net earnings
was £22,757:
Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends ——serves.
£, £, £
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. =' 55,000 425,500
1949.. 104.038 13 „ „ 65,000 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 488,057
1951.. 88,557 13 ~ ~ 05,000 511,614
From inner res., £20,000 .. 531,614
1952.. 85,465 13 p.c. = 65,000 552,079
1958.. 97,799 15 „ „ 75,000 574,878
1954.. 094 17i „ „ 87,500 633,472
1955.. 139.055 17J „ „ 87,500 685,027
Assets revalued, £250,000 .. 935,027
Reserve capitalised, £250,000 685,027
1956.. 15 p.c. = 112,500 734,339
On higher capital the £161,812
was equal to 21.6 p.c. Tax-pro-
vision was not shown, but depre-
ciation (£101,219) required an
extra £9156.
The subsidiary, Butidaberg
Distilling Co., Ltd., maintained
last year’s dividend rate, but a
stiff Federal excise-duty is hold-
ing down sales of rum.
The two crushing-mills
(located at Millaquin and Qua-
naba) treated 429,369 tons of
cane, compared with 460,255
tons the previous year for an
oufturn of 54,763 tons of raws
as against 58,532 tons. For the
industry as a whole the produc-
tion of raw sugar and its distri-
bution compare as follows:
Raw-sugar Production.
Domestic Export
Market. Market. Total.
(Tons, 94 net titre.)
1951 .. 496,100 221,000 745,400
1952 .. 441,400 503,000 948,400
1953 .. 463,900 746,600 1,254,400
1954 .. 499,000 783,700 1,326,400
1955* .. 544,995 626,005 1,171,000
* Subject to revision.
Outlook for the 1956 season is
favorable, and although early
estimates of the production of
raw sugar have been thrown out
by the cyclone which struck the
Queensland coast in March,
output should still reach the
1,175,000 tons required to fill the
market.
The domestic price of sugar
was raised a penny a pound last
May, the benefits from which
should be more apparent in
this term’s accounts. Overseas
prices remain fairly stable,
though the cloud on the horizon
there is the threat of still higher
shipping-freights. Within Aus-
tralia costs are troublesome, too,
but the industry is making steady
progress in converting to bulk
handling.
Principal balance-sheet move-
ment was the net addition of
£318,139 to the book-value of
mills, refinery, plantations, rail-
ways, etc., of which the revalu-
ation accounted for £250,000:
1955. 1956.
Paid capita] .. £500,000 £750,000
Reserves .. . . 685,027 734,340
Overdraft . . . . 33,512
Creditors, etc.* . . 1,089,856 1,009,742
Final div. .. .. 62,500 76,000
£2,287,383 £2,602,594
Freehold, mills,
reflnerv, etc, .. 1,253,102 1,571,241
Stocks ' .. . . 300,805 380,552
Debtors .. . . 66,862 38,746
Investments .. 598,671 606,055
Cash .. .. 8,943 '
£2,287,383 £2,602,594
* Including taxation.
Up £7384 to £606,055, invest-
ments comprise shares in Bunda-
berg Distilling (£64,951), shares
in other companies and semi-
Government loans (£144,167)
and Commonwealth securities
(£396,937).
The market at present prices
the 10s. shares at around 3 Is.
to return 4.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover is 19s. 9d.
No Further Oil
[From 1.. Owen]
THE search for oil in Aus-
tralia and its Territories
during the third quarter of 1956
has not produced much to cheer
investors.
There has been a lack of pub-
lished information as to the
geological and chemical charac-
teristics of the Kuru (Western
Papua) gas-body. Australasian
Petroleum and its associates
don’t depend on sharemarket
reactions for operating funds
(and are largely independent,
therefore, of public opinion), but
it is difficult to appreciate the
reason for the extreme reticence
about Kuru, now that the gas-
zone has been bottomed. The
companies’ anxiety to reach
Cretaceous strata at Kuru with
,as little delay as possible is
understandable, but independent
opinions as to the oil-significance
of the data collected in the Kuru
gas-zone would be of advantage
to them and would certainly be
of interest to Australians in
general.
In its recently-issued pro-
spectus Papuan Apinaipi, in a
different stable, expresses hopes
of commercial oil from shallow
petroleum reservoirs on the
fringes of the Lakekamu
Embayment. Here, great
caution is necessary in extra-
polating any outcrop evidence
below the base of the Pliocene,
and the relationship of the
Lakekamu structure to the
Morobe Arc is too conjectural to
be used as a point in favor of
the former as a possible oil-
producer.
The two rigs which have been
obtained are capable of reaching
only moderate depths under the
conditions to be anticipated in
the AUre Trough.
Passing to New South Wales,
the Clarence River Co. has spent
nearly £90,000 without obtain-
ing any data of value with
reference to what is a geologically
difficult and, incidentally, a
most intriguing—structure.
At Dural, Australian Oil and
Gas, using a percussion rig,
has reached a depth of 1383 ft. at
an exasperatingly slow rate of
progress without producing a
single orientated core which
could give information as to
sedimentary conditions and other
matters of interest in the
search for petroleum, in spite of
the fact that even traces of oil
are not likely at any horizon
penetrated up to the present.
In Victoria, that Woodside
No. 3 well was a “duster” is not
surprising, but the proposal to
return to No. 2 well to deepen it
suggests that neither the
mechanics nor the direction of
oil-migration as it affects this
area is appreciated. A recent
report, which includes a diagram
and text stating that “This figure
explains the whole mechanism of
oil-migration and distribution as
it is thought to have occurred
in the Gippsland sedimentary
basin,” confirms this opinion. It
would take many pages to
describe even the elements of
oil-migration in Gippsland or
anywhere else.
Santos continues, in South
Australia, to drill into porous
lenses containing insignificant
quantities of migrated oil in an
environment where deeper drill-
ing lessens the probability of
worth-while production.
In Western Australia, Wapet
continues to punch holes in
the southern extension of
the Rough Range structure.
Further south —at the extreme
point west- —a total of 12
structure-bores (nine in excess of
the original programme) have
been drilled on Dirk Hartog
Island, but the press-releases with
reference to this operation are
so void of important detail that
it is r impossible to assess the
value of the work.
The results of the magneto-
metric survey, carried out over
about 68,000 square miles in the
Canning Desert Basin, east of
Broome, are now available in
the form of nearly 300 sub-
surface structure - maps. The
interpretation of the geo-
physical data (on which the
accuracy of the maps depends)
has been carried out by overseas
specialists.
The above may be dubbed a
jeremiad on the search for oil
in Australia, but it should not
be taken to indicate that I am
pessimistic as to the future. The
poor results obtained to date
can be attributed, very largely,
to the fact that all the samples
of oil so far struck in Papua and
on the mainland are of the long-
distance-migrated type; the
successful search for this type
of oil —apart from sheer luck —
requires the aid of geologists
with years of active practice in
this very specialised branch of
petroleum-finding.


A HELPING HAND
By
D. J. GOLDING
WHEN the elderly maiden-
lady in the little old
house across the road
died, Dad said:
“The best thing they can do
is to pull the place down ; it’s
an eyesore, and it lowers the
tone of the whole street. But I’ll
bet they won’t. In fact, I’ll bet
anything you like”
Mother frowned reprovingly ;
Dad glanced at us children, gave
a little apologetic cough, and
went on:
“If I were a betting man, I
mean —I’d be willing to bet a
considerable sum that a New
Australian will snap it up.”
“Why a New Australian,
Dad?” I asked.
“They’re buying up homes all
over the place, particularly old
ones,” Dad replied. “And you
see, Jenny, Miss Plugson’s house
needs so much attention it’s
really worth very little ; only a
newcomer, who hasn’t much
idea of valuations, would be
imprudent enough to sink his
money in it.”
“Ridiculous ! ” Mother
remarked. “There’s just as many
Old Australians wanting homes
as there are New Australians, if
not more. And plenty of people
would be only too glad to have
it, even if it is rather shabby:
poor Miss Plugson lived there
very comfortably for thirty years
or more.” x
“Exactly! ” Dad snapped, as if
he’d won his bet already. “And
never spent a penny on the place
from one year’s end to another.
Look at it! ” He waved his hand
towards the house across the
road.
It certainly looked neglected.
The garden was hopelessly over-
run with weeds and straggly
shrubs, for Miss Plugson had
given it very little attention
during the last year or so. Urged
on by Mother, Dad had offered
several times to clear it up a
bit, but Miss Plugson had always
refused.
“Let it be,” she would say.
“I’ve tended it so long I couldn’t
bear to think that other hands
should touch it. Not while I
live, at least.”
And she would hold up her
proud old head and look at Dad
defiantly, and he would come
back and tell Mother the old girl
wouldn’t hear of it, so she’d just
have to put up with the wilder-
ness across the street a while
longer, and that perhaps it was
as well the garden was over-
grown, anyway, because it helped
to hide the house, which was a
blessing.
There was something in what
Dad said. If you looked close
up you could see that the paint
was peeling off the weather-
boards, and the gutterings and
spoutings were rusted. But, as
Mother remarked, Miss Plugson
hadn’t any money to spare on
doing it up, and as long as she
didn’t mind the look of the place,
what did it matter?
“Mark my words!” Dad said
—meaning that if his forecast*
proved correct, he ; wouldn’t fail
to remind us how right he had
been all along, but if it didn’t
he’d have no recollection what-
ever of saying anything of the
sort. “Mark my words, a New
Australian will buy it. It’s the
type of place those chaps go
for.”
“Well, we’ll see,” Mother
murmured in the tone she used
when she disagreedy/ith Dad but
couldn’t be bothered arguing;
and a few days later, we saw.
And Dad said:
“Didn’t I offer to bet anything
you liked that a New Australian
would take it?”
TT was a Mr. Schilsky who
bought Miss Plugson’s place ;
a short, rather stout man with
very fair hair.
We knew he was a New Aus-
tralian before we heard him
speak or learned his name. His
hair was cut very short, not like
an ordinary haircut, and he wore
a dark green velvet jacket and
brown trousers. You couldn’t
have told Mrs. Schilsky from an
Old Australian, though, at sight;
she was dressed quite ordinarily,
and it wasn’t until she spoke
that you guessed she hadn’t been
out here very long.
Dick and young Pam and I
had just come home from school
when the Schilskys arrived, and
we watched their furniture being
unloaded into Miss Plugson’s
place, until Mother came out
and told us it was bad manners
to stand and stare over the fence
at other people’s precious
possessions. So we went inside
and watched through the front
windows instead, and when Dad
came home we told him all about
the Schilskys arriving and what
they had brought with them,
which wasn’t very much.
“It was awfully old and
shabby—worse than anything
we’ve got, even,” said Pam.
“I’ll say it was,” Dick chipped
in. “Only two wobbly-looking
kitchen chairs, and a kitchen
cabinet that needed
painting”
“Ours needs painting,” Mother
said rather stiffly, glancing at
Dad, who tried to look as though
he hadn’t heard. It was one of
the little jobs he was always
going to get around to some
time or other.
“And an ugly’old lounge-
suite with the stuffing falling
out, and an old iron bedstead
like you see in the secondhand
shop down the street,” Dick
went on. “Gosh, the Schilskys
must be hard-up. Everything
they’ve got looks as if they
bought it secondhand.”
“Ssh!” said Mother. “It’s no
business whatever of ours what
our new neighbors have got or
haven’t got. In any case, they
are not the only people with
furniture that needs painting and
repairing. After being knocked
around by you children for
thirteen years, some of our
things are only fit for the
auction-rooms.”
“We must all remember that
they are neighbors,” Dad
murmured. “We must take them
as we find them, and I’ve no
doubt at all that the Schilskys
will prove excellent people, in
spite of their lack of worldly
goods. I was reading in the paper
tonight how somebody or other
—I think it was the Minister for
Immigration, or the Prime
Minister, or it might have been
the Premier—anyhow, whoever
it was, said how important it
was for us Old Australians to
make our New Australian
neighbors feel at hornet We
mustn’t think of them as
foreigners, but as new friends ;
we must realise how difficult it
is for them to settle down in a
strange country, and go out of
our way to give them a helping
hand.”
Dad went on like that for quite
a while. It was a lengthy speech
he’d read in the evening paper,
and he’d remembered most of
it, and Mother didn’t get a
chance to follow-up what she’d
said about painting our kitchen
cabinet, which was perhaps his
real idea. He wound up by say-
ing he’d take the first oppor-
tunity to drop in on the
Schilskys, as soon as they'd
settled in a bit, and see if he
could help them in any way, and
he hoped Mother would do the
same.
OF course Mother said she
would, and the very next
day she called on Mrs. Schilsky.
“1 was so glad I did,” she told
Dad at tea-time. “Poor little
woman, she seemed quite taken
back, almost alarmed or
suspicious, when she opened the
door to me. I suppose our ways
ate quite strange to them, coining
from Poland or Silesia or
wherever it was they lived
before ; but we got on very well
together after a little while, when
she found I was only anxious to
help them settle down in their
new home.
“She speaks excellent English,
which makes it easier—hardly
a trace of foreign accent, really,
just a sort of hesitancy now and
then, when she’s searching for a
word. I was able to let her have
a few odds-and-ends she needed
but hadn’t had time to get, and
she seemed so grateful. I told
her not to hesitate to run across
if there was any little thing she
wanted.”
Dad dropped in too, on Satur-
day morning, and had a chat
with Mr. Schilsky.
“Poor beggar,” he told Mother
later; “he’s got a job-and-a-half
on his hands, trying to make
something of that place. He’d
made a start on the garden
already, but it’s so overgrown
he hardly knew where to begin.
I told him I’d take a few garden-
ing tools over this afternoon and
give him a hand.”
Dad was as good as his word ;
he spent most of the weekend
at Mr. Schilsky’s place, and the
two of them got quite a lot of
the garden cleared of the weeds
Miss Plugson had allowed to run
(.Continued on page 31)


FOR SALE
to a land-experienced ex-serviceman.
Situation:
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND.
1014 acres P.L.S. war service
400 acres cultivation
Balance readily available. Subdivided 11
paddocks, Cattle fences, 2 fully-equipped
bores, plus 2 small dams. House, mach-
inery-shed, plus 4 smaller sheds. Reason-
ably new diesel tractor, sundercut, com-
bine, etc. Stationary diesel engine, tools,
etc. Land suitable grain—wheat, barley,
linseed, canary, sorghum, etc. Also ideal
cotton, crop fattening lambs, etc.
Price £16,000 —some finance available.
W'rite—
“Soldier Settler,” C/o Bulletin Office.
Missing Friends
TO NOEL MORRIS formerly of North
Caulfield, Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife EILEEN FRANCES MORRIS
has commenced action No. 450 of 1956
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of separation for a
continuous period of not less than 5 years
immediately preceding the commencement
of the action gnd there is no reasonable
likelihood of cohabitation being resumed
If you desire to defend the said action
you must within 40 clear days after the
publication of this notice file your defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth and in default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 13th day of September, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
OLNEY & NEVILE, C.M.L. Building, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
STRICKLAND.—WOULD the next-of-kin
of the late SILAS JAMES STRICKLAND,
aged 84 years, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Sydney?
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HOWARD FRANCIS LEAYR late of
96 Hobart Road New Lambton.—TAKE
NOTICE that ZENDA LEAYR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1880 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
30th day of November 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor, 44 King
Street, Newcastle. —J. D 0 P G H A N,
Registrar.
ou got
good taste?
r
BEjXS
MM
. 180* SCOTCH VrtHSlClg
CUniUD AND BU»0t»
' IN ACOTIAHO
TtA* C
O| SIILLERSromSCO
8 »»
PRODUCT
**** (ONnun - i PINT *
We mean ‘good taste’ in the
strict sense. When you
drink whisky, do you taste
it critically? It’s always
agreeable to be offered
Scotch Whisky. But it’s
memorable to be offered
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky
It brings to mind the burb-
ling of Scottish bums, and
the ripple of ripe barley
fields. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky—truly you
are a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons IM., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Melbourne Bequest
An important bequest, with
most unusual conditions, has
come the way of the National
Gallery in Melbourne.
Alfred Felton left a quarter-
million for the purchase of
works “calculated to elevate the
public taste,” and left it to the
trustees to decide what they were.
Armed with this mandate, and
his money, the trustees bought
two Rembrandts (one of which
was declared at the Amsterdam
Memorial Exhibition to be the
finest Rembrandt in existence), a
Van Eyck the value of which in
terms of money has more than
trebled, Titians, Constables,
Turners, Corots, Rodin’s
magnificent Minerva, the Greek
Aphrodite and an El Greco, as
well as a lot of academic and
fashionable rubbish which will
eventually find its way into the
basement.
The latest bequest is different.
It comes from the estate of
Everard Studley Miller, and is
valued at £262,940, the bulk of
which goes to the trustees with
the proviso that it be spent on
“portraits of individuals of merit
in history, painted, engraved or
sculptured before the year 1800.”
This magnificent benefaction
places the Gallery in the fore-
front of the world’s handsomely-
endowed institutions, and the
terms of the bequest have some
very cheering aspects. Placing
the period before 1800 removes
from the trustees the temptation
to buy the latest fashion, which,
in the case of the Felton Bequest,
was indulged in with such
enthusiasm that it has filled the
gallery with a lot of very-dubious
pictures called abstractions just
when that fashion is going out
in the very place in which it
started—Paris.
Confining the field of purchase
to portraits of individuals of
merit in history won’t embarrass
the trustees so long as they give
"individuals of merit” a suffici-
ently wide interpretation.
Although a lot of great men
didn’t have their portraits
painted by great artists, others
did.
Only one doubtful portrait of
Shakspeare exists, and it is a very
bad one. On the other hand,
Titian painted popes and arch-
dukes, Raeburn painted Scotch
lairds and Velasquez painted
kings, queens and cardinals, as
well as dwarfs. Holbein painted
Sir Thomas More, and Rubens
painted Helene de Fourment,
and it would not be stretching
the definition too far to say that
she was distinguished in history
inasmuch as she was Rubens’s
mistress.
Although the name of the man
who sculptured Julius Caesar is
unknown, he was certainly a dis-
tinguished sculptor. Although
Philip the Fourth was one of the
dullest kings on record, it could
be said that he was distinguished
by the very fact that Velasquez
painted such glorious portraits
of him.
So, if the trustees interpret
Everard Miller’s will sensibly,
they nave a magnificent
opportunity for filling the gallery
with a number of artistically
worth-while pictures, and that,
we presume, is what Everard
Miller wanted. On the other
hand, if they stick to some rigid
definition of “individuals of
merit” they will be in danger of
cluttering the place with
mediocre portraits of Napoleon
—whose Court painter was a very
bad one —Captain Cook and
other great men.
M. G. S.
* ❖ ’S’
Victorian Artists’ Society-
In spring, it seems, the
thoughts of some members of the
Victorian Artists’ Society don’t
turn to love or Nature —they turn
to abstractions. The soft beauty
of a cherry-plum, a hawthorn or
a cedar-wattle breaking into bud
or flower means nothing to them
except a set of colored patches
arranged in squares, rectangles
and circles and laid on savagely
as with a trowel. There is no
reason why they shouldn’t do it
if they like it, but since their
work this year is indistinguish-
able from what they did last year
it is more rewarding to consider
the other kind of painters, who
are better represented in this
year’s exhibition than ever
before.
As a sensitive rendering of
a particular aspect of Nature,
Miss Lesley Sinclair’s “Queen’s
Bridge, Melbourne,” stands out
above the others, and her portrait
of David Morris is a serious
study of an individual. In “Near
Jamieson” Donald Cameron has
something that resembles some-
thing, and there is a similar
variety in “The River Mouth”
of R. T. Lilburn.
In her portrait of Judith
Morrison, Mary McLeish carries
her pictorial shorthand to a
point where it amounts to little
more than an inventory of eyes,
nose, mouth, etc. Tom Shelton’s
“Late Afternoon” is breezy.
In “Rain, Barry’s Beach,”
A. H. Mann has caught the fury
of the tempest beating on a
headland, although his mighty
rollers don’t look as if they were
rolling. Judith Wills has a nice
bunch of white roses, Peter
Glass a nice sketch in “Cotton
Tree Beach,” and Kit Turner’s
“Morning Mist” is pleasant.
The Alastair Gray £50. water-
color-prize, judged by the donor,
went to Sylviane Selig, a 15-year-
old French girl who, at 12|, won
first-prize in an exhibition in
Nice six months after she had
taken up painting. Viewed as
an example of child-art it is no
better and no worse than others.
♦> *
Margaret Gunnersen and
George Arnold share the walls of
the Tasmanian Tourist Bureau’s
gallery in Melbourne. Miss Gun-
nersen paints Tahitian mists and
mountains, Mr. Arnold paints
portraits and ships and streets in
Melbourne; neither penetrates
much below the surface. Mr.
Arnold’s portrait of Miss Doris
Fitton gives no idea of that
vivacious lady.
Stage and Music
Tibor Paul and Stanley
Clarkson
Tibor Paul had the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra well
and truly on its toes at his latest
concerts in Brisbane. He bought
the orchestra for the first time
Respighi’s “Fountains of Rome,”
the most poetic of this com-
poser’s evocative pictures of
Italian sounds and landscapes.
Orchestra and conductor need
considerable imagination in re-
creating these impressions of the
Trevi and other famous Roman
fountains. All went well, particu-
larly in the shimmering effects
of the dawn-scene which begins
the piece. The second picture
(the Triton fountain at midday)
is an orgy of sound, and in a
hall where musicians have to
battle against vast and unfriendly
spaces it was a pleasant novelty
to revel in the flood of orchestral
sound that spilled off the plat-
form.
Beethoven’s Second Leonora
Overture was an interesting
change from the more familiar
Third Leonora Overture, which
it so closely resembles. The
chief interest in hearing it is
undoubtedly the brief glance it
allows us of Beethoven at work
in reshaping a masterpiece that
did not quite satisfy him the first
time.
After a grimly dramatic per-
formance of this work and the
lush orchestration of Respighi,
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony
could easily have been an anti-
climax. Rather too loving a
tempo at first seemed to promise
some drooping before the even-
ing ended, but this gave way to
a refreshing briskness, and the
symphony ended in a burst of
excitement.
An important part of a con-
cert in which nearly everything
went well was Stanley Clarkson’s
singing of arias by Verdi, Rossini
and Mozart. Singing in very
clear English, and with a voice
bigger, if anything, than it
seemed to be when he was the
regular Australian Messiah basso
every Christmas, he gave an
assurance of the standards of the
Mozart Opera Company of
which he is one of the bulwarks.
D. J. M.
♦5 * *
Ferras-Heinze
Christian Ferras, the 23-year-
old French violinist, was soloist
in the Tschaikowsky Violin Con-
certo with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Sir Bernard
Heinze. It was a performance of
cool judgment mixed with a
virility which in the final allegro
became sheer gusto as Ferras
slashed his confident way
through the forbidding maze of
technical snags. In the
canzonetta he conjured a lovely
singing tone to do complete
justice to one of the composer’s
most inspired melodic flights.
The conductor held the
orchestral mass on a tight leash,
for which not only the soloist
was grateful — the Concerto
followed on the heels of as
massive a hunk of noise as has
battered the ears of any Town
Hall audience, Hindemith’s
Concert Music For Strings and
Brass, Op. 50. The writing for
the brasses is so bad that Spike
Jones could almost use the con-
tribution of these as a burlesque
on a modern composition.
The symphony was Brahms’s
titanic Fourth. It was delineated
clearly, beginning with strong
string-tone, which adequately
bore the brunt of the stresses and
strains of contention with which
the opening movement is mostly
concerned. The slow section,
with its splendid, cantabilelike
melody, embellished with some
of Brahms’s richest harmonic
colors, brought out some of the
best orchestral playing of the
season, particularly the episode
where the horns join the wood-
winds in octaves.
The scherzo was gay—a patch
of sunlight wedged between dark
shadows —and the concluding
allegro, an ingenious set of varia-
tions on the ancient chaconne-
form, had compelling dramatic
power.
Talkies
“Above Us the Waves” (Syd-
ney Lyceum): Made with the
co-operation and technical
assistance of the R.N., this
gripping British film tells of the
crippling of the Tirpitz by
midget submarines as it lay at
anchor in a, heavily fortified
Norwegian fiord. An embroidery
of humor around the dramatic
edges lightens the grimmer
moments.
John Mills commands the
flotilla of three four-man subs,
which battle their way through
thq many hazards between the
open §ea and their target, and
John Robertson Justice is the
genial bearded admiral in charge
of subs, who, after reluctant con-
version to the scheme, gives his
O.K. to the epic venture.
“Simba’’ (Sydney Capitol):
Another authoritative British
film, with the Mau Mau terror
in Kenya as the central theme.
A young settler (Dirk Bogarde)
comes to the colony from Eng-
land to join his farmer-brother,
who is butchered by terrorists
just before the newcomer arrives.
Taking over the dead man’s
farm, he quickly fits into the
defence - organisation (good
glimpses, here, of the work of
the police-posts), and subsequent
activities concern the tracking-
down and destruction of the
district’s Mau Mau leader.
Donald Sinden, as a police-
chief who knows the native ways
backwards, and Virginia Mc-
Kenna, as an African-born
daughter of English settlers who
is bewildered at seeing her once-
secure world tumbling around
her, give good performances.
The climactic attack by hordes of
frenzied Mau Mau on the
sparsely-defended home of the
new settler is exciting and con-
vincing.
“High Society” (Sydney
Liberty): In giving the old
“Philadelphia Story” a face-lift,
M-G-M has polished a rather
shallow vessel, but it has some
catchy Cole Porter tunes and
smooth performances by Bing
Crosby, Frank Sinatra and Grace
Kelly, who manages to combine
serenity with the most engaging
vivacity she has yet displayed.
“Come Next Spring” (Sydney
Esquire): There is a rustic
charm about this small-town
story of a deserting husband
who, in the early years of the
century, returns to his family to
make good, is partly ostracised
by the narrow-minded com-
munity and taken back on a sort
of suspicious trust by his wife.
He has a daughter dumb from an
accident caused by his drunken
driving in his bad days, and it
is inevitable that this should
be used for a climax when she
hangs perilously over the brink
of an abandoned mine-shaft and
can’t call for help. Steve
Donohoe and Ann Sheridan
handle the main roles, but
Walter Brennan’s character-work
helps the film most.
“D-Day the Sixth of June”
(Sydney Regent): British colonel
Richard Todd leads a small force,
of picked international com-
mandos, who, preceding the main
invasion-force on D-Day, 1944,
have to put out of action a
heavily-protected 14in. gun which
threatens the success of the
whole operation. Under his
command is U.S. captain Robert
Taylor, he and Todd being
rivals for the same English girl’s
affections. Emphasis is more on
the romantic than the martial
aspect, and in the experienced
hands of Todd, Taylor and Dana
Wynter this is resolved with
sense and sensitiveness., The
brief battle-scenes carry con-
viction.


Black and White
By B. A. KER
AT Wollongong the two
elderly ladies, refusing
with smiling thanks my
offer to help, took their
small travelling-cases down from
the luggage-rack and left the
carriage.
The youth in the corner
reached up for his overnight-bag
and the cylindrical container
used by students to carry rolls
of tech, drawings, waited while
his mate gathered up a collection
of parcels, then they too stepped
out on to the platform. The
sturdy young fellow wearing the
blazer was obviously going
further: he dropped his news-
paper on the seat, staking the
claim, left the carriage and
briskly walked down the plat-
form in the direction of the
refreshment-rooms.
Reading, I merely glanced up
when two men entered the
carriage, vaguely registered that
they wore sailors’ uniform, flung
kitbags or some such luggage up
on the rack, then got out again.
“The seats in here taken,
mate?”
I looked up. He was coal-
black—not with the shiny black-
ness of a knob of coal, as many
negroes are, but with the
powdery black of the Australian
aborigine.
“No ; young fellow was sitting
over there, and a couple of
sailors dumped those bags in the
rack up there.”
“There’s plenty of room in
here f’r us, then.” He stepped
inside, turned, and spoke to some
men standing, indistinct, on the
platform. “C’mon ; feller says
there’s only a couple of blokes
here.”
Four men filed in behind him
and seated themselves.
On my side a man every bit as
black as the first sat beside him.
Both wore blue, pencil-striped
suits which, while neither shabby
nor dirty, in some way failed to
make them appear well-dressed.
Nearest to me was a greying
white man, clean-looking, wear-
ing a quiet-patterned pullover;
he seemed to have had consider-
ably more than the much-quoted
four middies.
On the other side sat a square-
shouldered, athletic - looking
young man with a fresh com-
plexion and tight, blond curls.
He wore a fawn overcoat and
appeared to be cold.
His mate was chocolate-
colored, about the same age, and
spotlessly clean from the turned-
over collar of his sports-shirt to
the cuffs of his sharply-creased
grey trousers. Covertly I studied
him—and fancied I detected a
tragedy. Obviously he knew the
older colored men very well;
may have even been related to
them. Yet—perhaps I was being
too imaginative—l got the
impression that he was with them
but not of therh. A young man
with the education and outlook
of a white.
“We want to do the right
thing; we just want to do the
right thing.”
It was the second black man
speaking. With a start I realised
that there was nervousness in his
voice. Ridiculous. This wasn’t
America. There was none of
those Jim Crow color-barriers
here!
On the other hand, however,
they had taken their seats
immediately beneath the sailors’
bags, and, without drawing racial
prejudices into the matter, the
usual thing was to consider such
positions “taken.”
“Well, we’ve got to get home
and we gotta sit somewhere,”
declared the first black man.
“When the other fellers come
back we can sort ourselves out.”
“We just want to do the right
thing,” persisted the other.
“Everyone’s got to go, no
matter who y’ are,” Number 1
declaimed. “When y’ die y’ go to
Heaven or y’ go to Hell. Y’
gotta go. Don’t matter who y’
are, y’ gotta go.”
“You give me the gripes, with
all that Bible talk, Albert.” The
elderly white man spoke peev-
ishly.
“Well, that’s how it is,” Albert
maintained.
“You’re a bloody hypocrite,
Albert.”
“No, I ain’t. I believe all that
about Christ dyin’ on the Crorss
for us sinners. You’re a sinner,
Fred, an’ I’m a sinner, an’ ”
'T'HIS was certainly the last
-*• topic of conversation 1
would have expected to hear
introduced by a tall, tough-look-
ing aborigine with a suspicious
bulge under his coat above the
hip-pocket.
“We want to do the right
thing,” Number 2 reiterated.
The young fellow wearing the
football-blazer returned, stepped
inside the carriage and, leaning
across the chocolate-colored
passenger, swung his blue over-
night-bag down from the rack.
In . the same movement he
wheeled and went out again.
“See?” said Albert triumph-
antly, as though some benign
Providence had arranged this
additional accommodation.
I found myself pondering. Had
the young fellow met somebody
he knew in another carriage, or
had he, taking in the situation
promptly, moved elsewhere
rather than travel with blacks?
I dismissed the latter thought.
This was Australia!
But the thought brought up
another: how were those two
sailors going to take the idea of
blackfellows jumping their seats?
Certainly there were other seats
—but with backs towards the
engine.
“Any room in ’ere, mate?”
The speaker was another
aborigine.
“No, mate; she’s full up,”
Albert asserted firmly.
He gave the same answer to
another colored face that
appeared at the window.
The door opened and a sailor
wearing a “square-rig” entered
the carriage; close behind him
followed a small, wiry man with
fair tousled hair. I was surprised
to note that I had made a mis-
take—only one of the men was
a sailor.
The train began to move, the
ten-minute refreshments-break
over.
I glanced at the newcomers;
they had taken the seats with
backs to the engine. The small
man was staring hard at Albert’s
averted face; the other black
man was looking most uncom-
fortable.
Suddenly the small man
almost leapt out of his seat.
“Albert! ”
He thrust out his hand. “How
you been going all this time?”
Albert’s face split in a grin
that showed a mouthful of
broken and uneven teeth which
were not nearly so dazzlingly
white as blackfellows’ teeth are
reputed to be.
“Charlie,” he boomed. “You
old b !”
Their handshake was a pro-
longed affair.
“You’ve been fighting again,
you old no-hoper,” accused
Charlie. “You’ve got two teeth
knocked out.”
Albert roared again, bringing
his right hand down in a sweep-
ing, pawing gesture, a spontane-
ous, emphatic movement
delivered while the body rocked
back and forth.
“I had two teeth used to ache,”
he bellowed, “but the bastard,
he knocked out one good-’un”
(his right hand pawed down
again) “and only broke off one
of the crook-’uns and made it
ache worse.”
Charlie suddenly remembered
his social obligations.
“Meet my mate, Ted,” he said,
turning to his sailor companion.
“Albert —me and him used to
work out at the Base just after
the war. But,” he grinned, “we
were luckier than you blokes —
we could go home at nights.”
Ted grinned at Albert owl-
ishly.
“Black and ugly,” he
announced in the friendliest
tones. It was a statement born
of more beer than tact, but its
truth was undeniable. Albert
grinned politely, so did the other
black man. The chocolate-
colored young man did not
appear to have heard.
“Black an’ ugly,” repeated the
sailorman, beaming. He shook
hands heartily, then, leaning
back, smiled like a bishop view-
ing his flock, and maintained
benevolent silence until slumber
claimed him.
“Reckon we ought to give
your country back to you?”
chiacked Charlie. Evidently it
was a time-honored joke.
“I wouldn’t have the bloody
country,” Albert roared, with the
inevitable rocking and pawing
accompaniment, “seein’ the way
youse have beggared it up.”
I found myself reflecting that
the generations of association
with white men had not greatly
changed the peculiar aborigine
humor: the rocking, roaring
laughter inspired by the simplest
things, the pawing gesture—they
were not a white man’s actions ;
they went right back to the
Dreamtime.
But at least, despite popular
fiction, he did not say “plurry.”
“Where you workin’ now,
Albert?”
“Cuttin’ sleepers down near
Woolarong.” He paused, then
added with a wicked grin:
“When I am workin’.” Again he
roared with laughter ; all of his
companions grinned broadly;
apparently they knew Albert as
well as he knew himself.
“You’ve been out after sheilas
tonight, Albert,” Charlie ban-
tered accusingly.
“Yeah, after sheilas.” (Extra
loud guffawing.) “That’s me,
always after sheilas.”
Suddenly he became serious.
“Did you ever get that seventy-
quid back?”
“No.” A pause, then with
shrugging resignation: “Ah,
well.” Pause again ; then: “But
I know who got it, all right.”
“Yeah, so do I.”
“D’you reckon? Yeah, I
know, all right, but I can’t prove
it. It was” He mentioned
two initials.
“Yeah, that’s who it was, all
right.”
“By cripes, but I was blotto
that night, Albert.” There was
neither regret nor remorse in his
tone, merely a statement of fact
with a touch of nostalgia.
“I know what I did, though:
I’d stuck me wallet in my hip-
pocket and the tobacco-pouch in
my breast-pocket, and when he
asked me for a smoke I went
and handed him the wrong one,
and—well... But I couldn’t prove
anything, and he said he didn’t
take the dbugh, so . . He
shrugged. “Ah well.”
Albert nodded. He glanced
covertly at me, then moved his
head slightly and pointed with
pouting lips, a gesture that
threw straight back to his fore-
bears, at the narrow door in
the corner. Clumsily he rose
and, stumbling with the move-
ment of the train, entered the
tiny compartment; a big black
band was already straying under
the tail of his coat as he
fumbled with the door. His old
acquaintance followed, smiling
happily.
The chocolate fellow and his
mate were less circumspect.
Reaching above the sleeping
sailor the fair-haired chap took
down the water-bottle and glass
from their holders. Partly filling
the glass with water he held it
out while the other added the
lacing from a large bottle
wrapped in newspaper. He
drank with obvious relish, then,
repeating his part of the ritual,
handed the glass to his mate.
I had done a hard day’s work,
had travelled from Sydney, and
—well, there’s no lullaby like the
song of train-wheels.
V
VS7HEN I awoke, Albert was
* * sitting alongside me. His
mate had squeezed in on our side
and the two were trying to
arrange a meeting at a date and
place suitable for both.
The chocolate-colored chap
and his mate mutely decided on
another drink. The water-bottle
was brought down again. Albert
watched the procedure closely.
“God bless y’,” he said piously.
Then: “Good luck to y\” Hope-
fully, it seemed to me.
If it was a hint, it was not
taken. The cork went back in
the newspaper-covered botttle.
“ ‘Ere, give us a go at that
water,” he requested. Without a
word the bottle was handed
over. He filled the glass.
“Always did like water,” he
declared.
“You’re a bloody hypocrite,
Albert.” The elderly white man
had come out of his slumbers.
“No I ain’t. I always”
“Garn, you wouldn’t know
what a hypocrite was, anyhow,
Albert,” Charlie chiacked.
“Yairs I would,” grinned
Albert through his broken teeth.
“It’s when y’ aint what y’ reckon
y’ are, or y’ are what y’ reckon
y’ aint.”
He drank the water, seemed
to appraise the taste critically,
then stumbled to the lavatory
again. At the door he looked
back in invitation. His mate
joined him, bringing the empty
glass.
They returned, smacking their
lips appreciatively, and squashed
in alongside me again. The
bantering began again, with all
the insulting profanity of Aus-
tralian mateship.
The train stopped. I realised
that I had slept much longer
than I had thought. Next stop
was mine! I got down my bag
and put my hat on. Albert
watched me. Perhaps he mis-
construed the reason for my
obvious intention to leave the
carriage next stop.
“You don’t mind a man havin’
a bit of a swear, do y’?”, he
asked, almost apologetically.
I laughed. “It don’t worry
me, mate.”
Instantly the whole atmosphere
in the carriage seemed to change;
for the first time the chocolate-
chap and his mate grinned at me.
Perhaps the fellow who told
me a long time ago that I looked
like “a dirty big demon” had
been right.
Chocolate spoke to Albert fof
the first time: “Do Mrs. ’Obbs,
Albert.”
Immediately the clock turned
back. Once again I was listen-
ing to the late Athol Tier’s radio-
character in perfect reproduc-
tion:
“I’m goin’ to ’ave two-bob on
this ’orse,/I sez, on account of
Dickie Bark knows the feller wot
trains it and Alfie sez ”
It was a good impersonation,
very good.
“You ought to have a go on
the Amateur Hour,” I said with
sincerity. ,
“They call me ‘Mrs. ’Obbs
around the pubs in”
“They call you a black b 1
interrupted Charlie.
Albert roared, and pawed.
“Yair, they call me that, too.
he agreed. Then added in mock
confidence: “You know, I got
nothing against Captain Cook—
it’s his bloody offspring I m
crooked on.” He pawed in
Charlie’s direction and bellowed
(Continued on page 30)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
0
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
general
INSURANCE
fundi Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
kuv mom sate!
SANDERS
Pncea ud fnr»
tber Information
Upon application
(Correspondence. Invoice*,
statement*. et&. filed In the
“Sanders** can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month Or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oiimbuttng Agtntt—
MELBOURNE ,* , . Norman Bro*, Pty. Lt&
ADELAIDE . * . Vardan Price Ltd.
PERTH . e , IKnttl &4>9* Ctt. <Aa*L>
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £ 1/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
Heeler
By PETER WARD
MY sister Phil has a lot of
fellows, call on her to
play records and take
her out. I like the
fellows who come to see Phil
because they try to get friendly
with Heeler and they are always
very polite to me. My name is
Lloyd, but they call me names
like Nugget and Tiger and one
feller called me Frank Buck
because I could handle Heeler so
good.
When these fellows are play-
ing with Heeler, like scratching
him behind the ears and patting
his ribs and snapping their
fingers at him, Heeler is growling
a bit and jumping up on the
fellows’ clothes and they are
grinning and saying what a great
dog he is, and Phil grins back
when they look at her and says
“Yes, isn’t he?” But I think the
fellows are just trying to be
polite and make an impression,
like Phil is.
She doesn’t like Heeler much.
I think it must be because she
is so old and can’t play with
him like I do. She is nineteen.
She is always telling me to
behave and not to get so dirty
and not to make so much noise
and things like that. I don’t
know what’s up with her. It’s
worse when the fellows are
visiting.
Last summer a fellow named
Gus came to visit Phil and they
were sitting in the lounge-room
talking and laughing and Heeler
was stretched out on the floor
minding his own business. This
fellow Gus didn’t make a fuss
of Heeler like the others. He
was the same as Phil. He didn’t
like dogs. I could tell by the
way he stepped back when Heeler
went to sniff him as he came in
the door. Gus is not a very big
sort of a fellow. He’s just a bit
taller than Phil. He’s got long,
fair hair and his face seems to
be red a lot of the time. Phil
says he’s very sensitive.
Anyway, they were all in the
lounge-room, with Heeler mind-
ing his own business, when he
started to scratch (Heeler, I
mean). He sat up on three legs
and scratched his ribs with a
hind-leg.
When Heeler scratches, he
puts everything into it. He
thinks hard about it. You can
tell by the look on his face. The
skin furrows-up between his ears,
he thinks so hard. And the
noise he makes every time his
paw hits the floor sounds a bit
like the big-end knock Dad had
in his car before he got the new
one.
This flea Heeler had must have
been causing him a lot of
trouble, because he couldn’t
seem to get rid of it. He kept
thumping with that hind-leg of
his for about two minutes ; then
he changed over to the other
leg, grunting all the time.
YI/HEN Heeler gets it bad like
that I help him out by
looking for the flea and scratch-
ing him where the flea has
bitten.
I was outside the lounge-room
in the hall and I called to Heeler
to come outside, but he was too
busy scratching to take any
notice. You could hear him all
over the house. I wanted to help
him, but at first I thought I’d
better not. Phil would say it
was bad manners to go fleaing
Heeler when she had a visitor.
Phil and Gus went on talking
as if nothing was wrong with
Heeler. They didn’t seem to
notice him at all. I went into
the lounge-room and told him
to lie down and said to Gus,
“Heeler can’t scratch his fleas
as well as I can. They get at
him something terrible.”
Gus didn’t say anything. He
just grinned a bit and nodded
his head, but Phil stood up from
the lounge and said to me, “Take
that dog out of here, Lloyd.” I
could tell she was a lot madder
than she sounded.
I wasn’t going to take Heeler
out, because the next thing you
know, Phil would be ordering
me around all over the place.
So 1 said, “Heeler likes it here,
don’t you, Heeler?”
Heeler flopped his tail a few
times on the floor and yawned.
I had caught three fleas by
he time Mum came in. She said,
‘Lloyd, take that dog outside
.his instant.” I knew from the
way she said it that she meant
business, so I took Heeler into
•he kitchen.
I must have disturbed the rest
of his fleas, or something,
because he started to thump the
floor again, much quicker this
time, and besides the thump
there was a click-click each time
he thumped, because of his
flaws hitting the lino. That
nade it sound worse.
Phil bore into the kitchen and
jpened the back-door and
ordered Heeler outside. Of
course, Heeler just looked at
her and grinned with his tongue
hanging out. He wouldn’t take
orders from Phil. I taught him
to take orders from Dad and
me and no one else.
Phil says to me, “Lloyd, .get
that dog out of here at once! ”
I told her, “Go tie your head
in a bag.”
She said, “I’ll fix you, you
brat! Making a fool of me!”
Her mouth was shut tight with
her lips wide open and she said
it through her teeth, just loud
enough for me to hear. I guess
ihe didn’t want Gus to hear
how mad she was.
She went inside and got Mum,
and Mum told me to take Heeler
outside. So I did. Then Mum
told me to go inside and go to
bed.
I asked her, “What about
Heeler?” and Mum said, “He’s
quite all right out there. Come
inside.”
I went up to my room and got
into bed, but I couldn't sleep
for a long time, thinking of
Heeler out in the yard like that.
I’ll bet he didn’t sleep much,
either, because he : s used to
sleeping in my room with me.
It was all Phil’s fault. Just
because Heeler gets a few fleas
and they make him itchy, Phil
gets him put outside into the
yard.
TyrO one seems to think about
dogs like I do. No one
seems to think that dogs haven’t
got hands like human-beings and
monkeys, and they can't catch
fleas so easy. All they can do is
scratch them, and that doesn’t
seem to do much good, because
the fleas just move off some-
where else, maybe to a place
where a dog can’t scratch them
so good. And it must be
uncomfortable for a dog with
all those fleas biting him all the
time. No one seems to care how
a dog feels about things like
that.
I thought all about this, and
I thought I would let Phil know
just how Heeler must feel about
it; so the next day I asked Mum
for a screw-top jar and I flea’d
Heeler. I caught twenty-three
fleas and put them into the jar.
Then I went up to Phil’s room
and pulled down the bedcovers
and took the top off the jar and
put the jar in the middle of the
bed ; then I pulled the bedcovers
back over it. When I went back
in half-an-hour all the fleas had
gone from the jar. I saw some
hopping around arid two or
three got into my shirt.
Next morning at breakfast,
Phil looked a bit dark under the
eyes and she didn’t eat much
breakfast and she was awful
cranky. Dad said that she had
been having too many late nights
and she would have to cut it out
and be in bed at nine-o’clock
for a change through the week.
Phil went red down to her
shoulders, she was so mad. She
said that she hadn’t been able
to sleep because of all the fleas
in her bed. She said that she
had been up most of the night
catching fleas, and she was going
out with Gus that night and
she would be half-dead.
I wanted to ask her how many
she had caught, but I thought
I’d better not.
Phil showed us all the flea-
bites on her arms and she said
that she was like that all over.
She pointed to Heeler, who was
asleep under my chair, and she
said, “That dog is bringing all
his fleas into the house. I’m
humiliated every time we have
a visitor, the way he goes on,
scratching all the time.”
Dad said that all dogs have
fleas, but they don’t worry him
because fleas don’t bite him,
anyway.
I said to Dad, “Well, if they
did bite you, you’d know what
a dog feels like. Phil knows
now. I’ll bet.”
“That’s enough of your back-
chat, my lad,” Mum says to me.
She told me that, until 1 got rid
of Heeler’s fleas, he would have
to stay out of the house. He
couldn’t even sleep in my room
at night. She told me to give
him a bath, but Heeler doesn’t
like baths.
Mum didn’t understand about
Heeler’s fleas, either.
I got rid of Heeler’s fleas for
him. I caught every one and put
them into the screw-top jar
and let them loose in Dad and
Mum’s bed. But it didn’t turn
out the same this time.
TUST as I was pulling the covers.
** back over the jar, Mum
came into the bedroom and
caught me. I guess she could
tell I was up to something, the
way she held me by the back
of the neck until she pulled the
covers down again. When she
saw the jar with the top off it
and the fleas jumping around
inside, she asked me what I’d
done it for. I knew that I was
going to get a hiding anyway,
so I didn’t say a word.
Maybe that made her more
wild with me ; I don’t , know.
All I know is, she gave 'me the
biggest hiding I’ve had since the
time when I was six and I
swapped my new school-case for
a penknife with a corkscrew and
a pig-stabber and a bottle-opener
on it, and a magnifying-glass
with a handle, and a fountain-
pencil that had no lead in it.
When I got home from school I
told Mum I’d lost the case. I
don’t know how she knew those
things were in my pockets, but
she did, and straightaway almost,
she told me what I’d done with
the case.
She was giving me the hiding,
she said, for telling a lie, not
for giving away my school-case.
When I was feeling better I
thought that it would have been
best not to have told a lie. Then
I could have kept all those things
without getting a hiding, because
at the end of the week Phil comes
home at night from her new job
and she’s got another school-
case for me.
Phil isn’t too bad at times.' I
try to keep out of the way when
Phil has a fellow call on her, but
with Heeler it’s different.
Another night this fellow Gus
came to see Phil, and as soon as
Heeler heard Gus downstairs he
started to kick up a fUss for
me to let him out of my room.
I opened the door after a while
and he ran downstairs into the
lounge-room and jumped up on
Gus’s lap.
He must have been comfort-
able on Gus’s lap because he
didn’t want to get off. He was
sitting there with his mouth open
and his tongue shaking, right
near Gus’s face, Phil said, and
she said she felt awful about it.
I can’t nurse Heeler much
like that because he’s a pretty
big dog. He comes up near the
top of my leg when we are both
standing up and he can’t fit on
my lap properly. I don’t know
what sort of a dog he is exactly
and Dad doesn’t either. Dad
says he is a bitser. There’s a lot
of cattle-dog in him, but we
don’t know what the rest of him
is. He’s a nice-looking dog.
Anyway, he must have liked
Gus’s lap because when Gus
went to move him off Heeler
looked into Gus’s face and
growled. Gus put both his
hands on the lounge and went
stiff all over.
Phil tried to move Heeler and
he growled at her, too, so she
called out to Dad. Dad got
Heeler by the back of the neck
and around the stomach and
lifted him clean out the front-
door.
When the time came for Gus
to leave, Heeler was still out in
the front. Phil and Gus went out-
side and closed the door and
the next thing I heard Heeler
was growling real low and Phil
o Continued on page 30)
BESIEGED
At Portland, where the lean and gusty winds
Worry the ancient trees along the front,
l sit and stare. Three hours of night have been
Ferried across the window as my hunt
For this elusive muse has tied me down,
A dark and brooding Gulliver, to my desk.
About the warm pub, blackness aims to lose
The things of man, the lively, picturesque
Or just plain sordid, with dark sleight of hand.
My eyes, boring out through the window-pane,
See nothing but the cold persistent spate
Of images my soul throws up again —
The mind fogged down, the blood’s rebellious cry—
Who in his senses would aspire to verse ?
Who in his senses, cries the echoing night,
Would bear the movement of the universe
,Without some struggle? Who would bear to see
Time dribble backwards from a land of drought
And not erect "some bold retaining wall?
Swearing it was the darkness that cried out,
/ move outside, encountering near and far
Black drifts of nothing, pierced by one cold star.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Weird, Wonderful, Magnificent
The
Ruined City
of
Arnhem Land
By JACK WOOD
I HAVE just returned from a
visit to what must be the
most fascinating and most
spectacular bit of country in
Australia —the Ruined City back
from the Phelp River in the
north-east corner of Arnhem
Land.
I’ve seen a lot of “fancy”
country in my time, and particu-
larly in recent years when scintil-
lometer-prospecting for uranium
over thousands of square-miles
of the N.T.—the Giant’s Creek
and South Alligator fault-system
and along the junctions of the
Katherine sandstone tablelands
—but for the weird, the wonder-
ful and the magnificent, I’ve
never seen anything to touch the
Ruined City.
I had heard about the place
a few times while prospecting
around the Territory. A few
people had mentioned it to me
—they had heard of it, vaguely,
from someone else.
Then, at Jack Mahoney’s pub
at Larrimah, I chanced on a short
account in the “North Australian
Monthly” of a visit to the City
by K. D. Young.
Young said that his first sight
of it had had the same effect on
him as had his first view of
“other of the great wonders of
the world.”
That was enough for me —I
started organising immediately.
How to get there was the
trouble. Some boys I met at
Mahoney’s had come up from
that way, so we mud-mapped out
where it was supposed to be,
and I duly contacted the Arbon
and Cartwright boys of Ura-
punga station —the closest cattle-
station to the Ruined City
country—and made long-range
plans to go up there in the “dry”
and have a look at the place.
I would note here that but for
the kindness and the assistance
of Arbon and Cartwright and
their families I don’t think I
would have even got a start on
the way in.
There were a lot of prepara-
tions. First, permits had to be
obtained from the N.T. Admini-
stration—the Ruined City lies
in the 50,000-square-mile native-
reservation of Arnhem Land, and
permits to enter are strictly
necessary. Mr. Harry
Administrator of Native Wel-
fare, and his staff in Darwin
were very helpful with such
things as medical clearances—•
you have to be cleared for
malaria and t.b. before going
on to a native-reserve.
All that being fixed according
to the rules, I had to establish
my purpose for going in—to
take photographs.
To take photographs!
Hitherto, I had never got much
past the point-and-push stage of
photography, and I had arranged
for a friend, a commercial
photographer, to come to the
Ruined City with me. He
couldn’t make it at the death-
knock, so I had to take a crash-
course in movie-photography
and beg, borrow, hire and buy
the equipment,
I got hold of a 16mm. Bell and
Howell cine-camera, plus all the
gadgets, and 1500 ft. of cine-
film ; and Fred Combs, president
of the Australian Amateur Cine
Society, taught me as much as
I could learn in the time. I
added a small Kodak “still”-
camera to my gear, and then I
was rarin’ to go. In fact, I
wouldn’t have called Ned Kelly
-my uncle,
I flew from Sydney to Tennant
Creek by way of Brisbane, Long-
reach, Cloncurry, Mount Isa and
Anthony’s Lagoon—from the
a ir the Barkly Tableland looks
like a great greasy claypan, even
though you know it is some of
the best grassland in Australia—
and took a tourist-bus from the
Tennant to Mataranka, where
Maxie Cartwright was waiting
with his own truck when we
pulled in at 9 p.m.
We knocked the top off a
bottle, and discussed plans. Max
would let me have two native
boys and six horses and two
mules, so that we could have a
fresh horse each half-day. The
two boys he had assigned to me
were in the truck with him, and,
after short introductions, we
loaded my gear, drove a mile out
of town, lit a big fire, boiled-
up, yarned, and turned-in.
Early next morning we pro-
visioned at the store, then set
out on the 150-mile trip to Ura-
punga.
About 20 miles out of Mata-
ranka we came to the new Elsey
station the old station south
of Mataranka having been pulled
down. The new homestead is
on the banks of a magnificent
deepwater stretch of the Roper.
Mrs. Payne, the manager’s wife,
took us in for a cup of tea, and
as we drank it on the wide
gauzed-in veranda we noted the
Duke of Gloucester’s royal
insignia over the bedroom he
had occupied when visiting the
station while he was Governor-
General of Australia.
From Mataranka to Elsey we
had been going through black-
soil country rather like the East
Bogan in N. S. Wales. From
Elsey onwards, for better travel-
ling, we took the high road
through red country typical of
much of the N.S.W. red western
jump-up country.
Tom Holt’s Roper Valley
station, 60 miles further down
the river, was our next destina-
tion. Elsey something over
3500 square-miles and Holt’s
Roper Valley use up most of the
country between Mataranka and
the Roper Bar police-station 150
miles away. External boundaries
are hardly fenced at all in this
country, neighbors attending
boundary-pi usters from time to
time.
We chugged all day by way
of jump-up, creek, flat plain,
jump-up and jump-down again.
There was little herbage (winter
grass), but plenty of summer
grass and plenty of trees —tea-
trees, gutta-percha, greygurn,
coolibah, djitwood, milkwood,
smokewood and bloodwood.
There were fresh burnt-out
patches of old grass with
new shoots coming through;
there were patches of cane-
grass and of peagrass, from
which the natives make their
spears, and our own familiar
stipas—“No. 9” and “cork-
screw.” Except for the absence
of mallee, this red country was
in many ways reminiscent of a
trip from Tottenham through
Eremeran to Mt. Hope (N.S.W.).
There were plenty of wild-
melons and sugarbags—always a
piece de resistance in the black-
boy’s eye’s—and the Strangways
was clothed with vines; a
wonderful place for melons in
and out of' season. Actually,
there is no season for them —
they seem to grow all the year
round, a new lot starting as. soon
as the old dies out.
By night we were coming up
to Roper Valley station, pic-
turesquely set over a gap in
something like the formation we
were later to find on a magni-
ficent scale in the Ruined City.
Tom Holt being absent, his
father-in-law, Ernest Cale, met us
at the gate and took us in for
the night. Tea was over, but
Ernest got the girls to set-up
afresh. There was an enormous
cold roast of beef as wide as the
table, and there were dressed
tongues, cheese, beer and ice-
cream to follow.
Ernest had been a city journa-
list in his time, and we spent the
evening yarning about every-
thing under the sun—natives and
their habits and customs, city
life, tall tales, journalism, litera-
ture, delinquency, snakes and,
finally, ghosts.
We turned-in eventually, and
it still seemed dark when the
muezzinlike bell high up in its
rotunda called everybody out for
a new day.
After breakfast we went down
and saw some very good paint-
ings in a little cave under a sand-
stone rock by a stream. One of
the best was of a brolga lousing
itself or picking feathers out of
a wing. It was painted in red
and white ochre, the shading
done in fine diagonal red
lines on a thick, pure-white
background.
Then we were on our way
again, over very rough roads. We
lunched on tinned delicacies at
a B.H.P. prospecting camp, and
finally came up with the Roper
Bar in the early afternoon.
We reported to Constable
Peter Haag at the police-station,
and crossed the river at Leich-
hardt’s Roper' Bar Crossing—
where the explorer allegedly
crossed the river on his trek from
Brisbane to Port Essington.
Here, the river is wider than
the Murrumbidgee, but the
crossing is a good hard one, if
a little rough. The river is tidal
up to this bar, over 100 miles
from its mouth.
Another six miles and we
were at Urapunga, where the
Cartwrights and Arbons have
built a fine large iron-roofed
house with big rooms artistically
partitioned and sided with
stringybark. A garden of paw-
paws, bananas and other trees
springs higher than the house.
Urapunga is about 1000
square-miles, running cattle.
Cartwright and Arbon, with
their wives and four children
each, have been on it only a
few years, and are fencing some
left to right (mounted): Jackie Hodgins, Tommy and Billy. Standing: Ray Arbon
and the author with, extreme left, an unnamed young man in trouser-trouble.
Aboriginal rock-paintings in the Ruined City.


of the paddocks. They are highly
optimistic about the possibilities
of the country. The domestic
cultivated type of cotton grows
wild there, and they believe they
could carry a few Corriedale
sheep. For milking, they run a
lot of goats, with native .shep-
herds—they would need shep-
herds with sheep, too, because of
dogs.
Tropical fruit grows in pro-
fusion, of course, and they get
their own salt from salt-flats,
Th'ere is a deepwater port right
up the Roper, only a few miles
from the homestead. Station
supplies come from the eastern
States—they go first to Thurs-
day Island, where they are picked
up by boat, the Cora, and then
taken up the Roper.
The country here struck me
as pretty good. There are a lot
of rich flows of volcanic soil
coming up through it—rich stuff
comparable to anything in Aus-
tralia. At Urapunga it grows
snake-beans faster than they can
eat them.
We spent Sunday getting our
gear together, the horses shod
and the tucker bagged and
packed. We were mounted on
resh horses I had two partial-
larly good ones. My boys
Tommy and Bdly were both
members of the Retunga tribe,
which, they said, inhabited an
area on the Rose River.
rp ,
Tommy was a murderous-
looking fellow, his chest covered
with the cicatrices of initiation.
He was the life of the patty,
however, Billy being the strong,
sient type. Tommy had the
typicai Australian sense of
humor that loves to have you on,
and he was always ragging Btlly
in his own lingo. When at this
caper, he used to speak more like
a Chinese, getting right down
overhts words and drawing the
last one out indefinitely in a sort
of sing-song crooning grunt
-ya-ya-ya-yaaaaaa. When
« l au and said it
vas mak m joke.
Tommy was a fund of in-
formation, pulling-up at various
spots we came to and explaining
them: That place Alligator
dreaming or 1 hat place Rock
Cod dreaming. Fish were
always ‘ bish” Tommy s use of
b for ‘f” often made it hard
to understand him.
We crossed the Wilton River
and camped at Rutter Rutter
Lagoon for lunch. Then across
the Urapunga-Roper Mission
boundary, and on through good
black Flinders country to Turkey
(Banunda) Lagoon, where we
camped overnight with the Ura-
punga-Roper Mission plants, out
on a boundary-muster.
Next morning we crossed the
Banunda and went on up the
Yirridy-irridy (“good country”)
Valley by a couple of dreaming-
spots to the deep waterfall on
the Costello at Boora-boora-
mal B a -
A beautiful place this, with
deep and apparently fathomless
bowls of water in the rock. I
took some photographs, but just
as Billy was posed in a nice bit
of composition he messed things
up by taking after a good target
for his fishing-spear. The fish
were mainly little rifle-fish and
bream about Ift. long,
We went on to Downers
Range, and the country started
to pinch-in and roughen and
rise. We had been moving
through lancewood, thick and
spiky, when Tommy called rny
attention to the sun highlighting
the distant Walls of Brimmie,
an outpost of the Ruined City
some miles north-east of us.
“it was too late to go much
further, so we camped by
Brimmie Lagoon for the night,
excited by the thought of the
City further to the north.
Next mo rning we saw it, just
as K D Young had described
it> its creamish walls lit by the
mo rning sun and broken and
decorated with all the fantastic
buttresses, bastions, keeps,
sepu lchres, shrines, porticos,
balustrades, balconies, pent-
houses and pinnacles—a weird
an d incredible conglomeration
Q f natural architecture,
We wo| . ked north bes ide the
cit u , ha , d kee ping dose
/, and campi ' g for the night
he Ropun F ga ‘ RLver .
. *l. * n • „
~ A “ following morn,ms
the Clt >: t fled ‘gl e ? orl J l ° t', nd ,
a way into it. The big bumbled
upri^ t bu ,tresses and dead-end
|a F ne ‘ frustrated o ur every
altempt to get in Time and
aga j n we combed mazes between
sphinx aad battlement> oniy t 0
come ab ruptly against a sky-
scraper cu „i ng oft , he stre et and
barl £ furthe 5 r
This s Was F ° red ominant
(ealure of the city . F treets were
al bei cUt ' off and tum .
; sideways into mazes, so that
on s e , ; dd , j to follow
them round
On one such sortie we came
on a little cave containing some
of the best native painting 1
have ever seen: Churinga
(totem-stick), ghost figure with
hooked brandished arm, native
f aunSj handprints, fingerprints
and thumbprints, fish, crocodile,
goanna, snake, bits and pieces of
na tive anatomy, hieroglyphics
anc j fo e Deity—the “Important
Thing,” which Tommy said was
the highlight of the whole col-
lection and the cause of the
“visitor’s book” thumbprints
anc j fingerprints all over the
p i ace .
Far inside the City, over the
top G f the walls, we could see the
stovepipe and organpipe
clustered tops popping up every-
where, but we couldn’t get in
among them,
Tommy got bad for water, so
we ro de back to a hole and had
a drink. Then I had a hunch
that the little watercourse we
followed away from the City
might also lead the way into it,
and j t was by dint of this that
we finally got in.
That morning, Tommy, who
(Continued on page 27)
Max Cartwright distributing coconut-ice —“good tucker.”
Inside the Ruined City proper, looking north from the amphitheatre by which the author
found his way in.
“The Ruins of Pompeii” —sunlight and shadow throwing contrasts across the weird forms
of the Ruined City.
Above: Looking south across Nature’s architecture in the Ruined City —strange shapes
carved by centuries of wind and rain.
Below: This bastion looks as though it will stand for ever, but, geologically speaking, its
time is running out.


DERBY DAY
AT RANDWKK RACECOURSE
SATURDAY, 29tli SEPTEMBER
SEE THE BEST THREE-YEAR-OLDS COMPETE
IN THE FAMOUS CLASSIC EVENT
Special tram service into the Course from Circular
Quay and Railway
Special buses will leave Bondi Junction at
frequent intervals
Racecourse gates will open at 10 a.m.
SATURDAY, 29th SEPT.: EPSOM HANDICAP
MONDAY, Ist OCT.: THE METROPOLITAN
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN,
Secretary, A.J.C.,
6 Bligh Street, Sidney
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... •• •• 2/r
Yearly ... 22/6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
For the opening day of the
A.J.C.’s spring carnival at Rand-
wick next Saturday principal
events will be the £lO,OOO Derby,
£4OOO Epsom, £2OOO Colin
Stephen Stakes (w.f.a.) and the
first two-year-old race of the
Sydney season, the £2OOO
Breeders’ Plate for colts and
geldings. Main attractions for
the Monday will be the £6OOO
Metropolitan and the £2OOO
Gimcrack Stakes for two-year-
old fillies.
Altogether, there’ll be four
days of racing, with upwards of
£50,000 stakemoney, added
sweepstakes money for winning
owners and other added, sums.
With the best horses from New’
Zealand, as well as top-class
performers from most Aus-
tralian States, this spring fixture
should be one of the most suc-
cessful for many years.
For the Derby: Gay Lover, 1 ;
Harnham Hill, 2 ; Fire Flash, 3.
Epsom: French Charm, 1 ;
Teranyan, 2; Cuirassier, 3.
Breeders’ Plate: Lord Russett,
1; Tulloch, 2 ; Flying Kurana, 3.
Metropolitan: Blazeaway, 1;
Dalstar, 2 ; Roman Holiday, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Court
Slipper, ,1; New Fairy, 2;
Concert Star, 3.
Forty-one four-year-olds have
won the Epsom, and their age-
group is well represented in
Saturday’s big mile, mainly by
French Charm, Teranyan, Knave
and Gentle Lu. The five-year-
olds have won 30 Epsoms; top
three-year-olds seldom contest
this event, best of this age being
set for the Derby. In the Metro-
politan, four-year-olds have had
39 successes, and five-year-
olds 28.
The weiglit-for-age Colin
Stephen Stakes has often proved
a Metropolitan guide, winners
of both events since 1938 being
Royal Chief (who won that
season), Beau Vite (1940), Delta
(1951) and Dalray (1952). Two
years ago Advocate won the
Colin Stephen Stakes and finished
third to Commodore in the
Metropolitan; last year Electro
won the weight-for-age and
finished third to Beaupa in the
Metrop. Beaupa had finished
fourth in the w.-f.-a. race, but he
dropped sharply in the weights
for the handicap.
New Zealand - bred horses
figure at or near the top of the
Epsom and Metrop. weights,
but they may have to battle to
land the big end of the stake-
money. Backing the topweight
in either the Epsom or Metrop.
has generally proved poor punt-
ing. Since 1930 the only horses
carrying No. 1 saddlecloth to
win the mile have been Chatham
9.10 (1933), High Caste 9.5
(1940) and Achilles 9.2 (1950).
Winning topweights in the
Metropolitan since 1930 have
been Delta 9.5 (1951), Dalray
9.1 (1952) and Carioca 9.7 (1953).
A new threat to Sydney
owners of Metropolitan candi-
dates came to light at Rosehill
last Saturday, when Dalray’s
half ■‘■brother, Dalstar, owned by
C. Neville, who raced the Mel-
bourne Cup winner of 1952 —
he also won the Metrop. that
year—cleared out with the Rose-
hill September Handicap. Dal-
star won with 7.9, and drops
21b. in the Metrop. It was his
most important success to date,
but he was only lightly raced in
New Zealand, and didn’t have
a run at all at two-years.
Dalstar ran a race-record at
Rosehill, as did Redcraze in
winning the Hill Stakes. Few
races in Australia are decided
at 81 furlongs, the distance of
the w.-f.-a. Stakes; Redcraze’s
1.43 9/10 was only a fraction
outside Australia’s best, made
by Melbourne galloper Chil-
peric at Caulfield in October,
1933. Redcraze won the two-
miles Brisbane Cup in June last
with 9st., beating Caranna and
Beaupa, and in the Metropolitan
has 9.8. He gave opponents in
the Hill Stakes a long start and
won easily. However, in the
long history of the Metrop. —
first run in 1866 —the only horses
to win with more than 9.7 have
been-The Barb (1868), with 9.10,
and Rebus (1919), also with 9.10.
Three years ago Carioca won
with 9.7. So Redcraze appears
to have the job ahead of him
with 9.8. He has to concede
fellow-Enzedder Dalstar 291 b.!
Brisbane’s top galloper,
French Charm, also had a
brilliant Rosehill win, taking the
Theo Marks*Quality Handicap
from New Zealander King’s
Fair, with Kingster third. Knave
ran much below form, and
Gentle Lu was also disapppint-
ing. Teranyan, who has gone
along the right way since win-
ning the Tramway Handicap at
Randwick, didn’t compete at
Rosehill because his oyvner and
trainer didn’t think another run
necessary.
Metrop. candidate Half
Hennesy performed only moder-
ately at Rosehill, but it should
be noted that the country
galloper has run* only twice
since mid-August, and his latest
outing should have benefited
him. Last spring Beaupa was
unplaced in the September
Handicap but won the Metrop.
Melbourne has a pretty smart
sprinter in Souverain d’Or, who
has won at his last four starts,
and may have a crack at the
Canfield Cup. Trained by Frank
Manning for three owners —G.
Thompson, A. Edwards and R.
Lewis —the five-year-old gelding
is by Pont d’Or (imp.) from
Stuart Martyr, an unraced mare
by The Marne from Stuart M
by The Buzzard (imp.).
Souverain d’Or won the Moonee
Valley Second Nulla Nulla
Welter at his latqst outing, start-
ing at even-money.
Appearance of apprentice Roy
Greenwood on Illinois scared
many punters in the Rosehill
Welter, and the overnight
favorite opened at 4 to 1. Fears
“ Bite?"
proved groundless, because
young Greenwood, recording his
first race-win, brought Illinois
with a well-judged run to hold
off Neville Sell wood on the
fancied William Charles in a
tight finish. Willy Willy ran
third.
Scarlet Cape, a speedy gelding
by Cape Race (imp.) from Miss
Scarlet, trained at Rosebery by
Fred Hood for Mrs. S. Rhodin,
scored his third in a row when
he won the First Parramatta
Stakes at Rosehill. He has raced
14 times in all, for four wins,
five seconds and two thirds, bag-
ging upwards of £2OOO in stakes
in moderate events.
Several winning youngsters
and others that showed up pro-
minently in the 13 heats of the
Rosebery barrier-trials last week
should soon win races. The list
might well have included the
winners of the Breeders’ Plate
and the Gimcrack. Best time —
47|sec. —was recorded by Lord
Russett (colts) and New Light
(fillies). Lord Russett carries the
colors of well-known racing folk
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Tancred and
Mr. and Mrs. W. Longworth, for
whom he is trained by McCarten.
Tancred is chairman and Long-
worth vice-chairman of Sydney
Turf Club. The colt is by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Buzzgold, and is related to
several smart winners. New Light
is trained by Cecil Rolls for G.
Ryder, D. Chrystal and D.
Chrystal, jnr., and also is a
Newtown Wonder. Her dam,
Rock Light (imp.), is by Rocke-
fella, a son of Hyperion. She is
not in the Gimcrack Stakes.
Tulloch, Flying Kurana, New
Fairy and Concert Star also had
impressive wins at Rosebery.
* * V
Three pacers gained skin-of-
the-teeth qualification for the
Spring Handicap, one of the
feature events at Harold Park’s
Spring Carnival next month. The
Spring Handicap is set on a 2.19
front, and in three of the seven
races decided at the Raceway on
Friday night 2.20-class horses
cruising around for the win that
would make them eligible
totalled 14 ; to get. there they had
to down horses who weren’t able
to qualify or those that had
already qualified. The three to
pull it off —Miniature Bill, High-
land Jan and Wynhaven—all
impressed: Miniature Bill for the
way he bulldozed through a
formidable ruck of gigs and
neddies; Highland Jan for her
effort in trailing Steel Spring to
the turn, where she-completed a
quick fling on him ; and Wyn-
haven for his turn of speed to
race to the lead and hold it when
asked for his effort.
-j- -f
Top V.F.L. players who have
now retired include the two
grand - final captains. Noel
McMahen, 29, 6ft. lin. centre-
halfback, has led Melbourne to
its last two premierships. Col-
lingwood’s Neil Mann, 32,
6ft. 2in., x was a very safe high-
marker, scrupulously fair; he
was runner-up to Roy Wright
for the 1954 Brownlow medal.
Another well worth noting who
played his last game 'in the
“grand” is Melbourne’s Denis
Cordner, 32, 6ft. 4in. ruckman,
last of four brothers who’ve
played with the Demons. Since
1941 there has been at least one
Cordner in every Melbourne
team, and on and off there has
been one since 1904!
The 1956 Sandover Medal, for
W.A. League’s “best-and-fairest,”
was won by 20-year-old East
Perth and W.A. ruckman
Graham Farmer. Earlier he
had won the Tassie medal, for
the “best-and-fairest” at this
year’s carnival in Perth. Farmer,
who also won the Simpson
medal for a fine display against
S.A. in June, thus equals Merv
Mclntosh’s 1953 record of
winning the three medals in the
same year.
“Blufire”: In the second
V.F.L. semi-final Collingwood
planned to keep brilliant Mel-
bourne defender John Beckwith
right out of the play, but the
plan failed. Beckwith had 13
kicks and two marks, whereas
opponents Bill Jones and Bill
Serong didn’t kick a goal from
the pocket and had only one
mark and 15 kicks between
them. ’Wood had no particular
plan concerning Beckwith in the
grand-final, and it again failed
to subdue him.
In 1952, to spread interest in
the national code up north, the
Australian National Football
Council staged a competition
V.F.L. game in both Sydney and
Brisbane. The Sydney game,
between Collingwood and Rich-
mond, was staged in the foulest
possible weather for football, yet
25,000 turned up—there would
have been twice as many on a
fine day. In 1953 two Adelaide
teams, Norwood and North
Adelaide, played on Sydney
Cricket Ground; a good game,
but, not having the glamor of
the V.F.L. teams, it drew only
19,000. Since then the whole
project has been shelved (due, in
part, to opposition by club-
supporters back home). Still,
there are many Victorian “exiles”
now living in Sydney, and plenty
of others too, who would like to
see at least one topnotch Aus-
tralian Rules game each year;
and" it would be a good show
all round if Sydney and Brisbane
were each given one V.F.L.
competition-game every year.
*s * *
The touring Australian
amateur golfers won both four-
somes when they played a lead-
ing Hawkes Bay (N.Z.) team at
Wellington. Australian captain
H. Berwick and J. Seward beat
N.Z. champion S. G. Jones and
F. J. Gordon three and two;
Bill Edgar and Peter Toogood
beat R. Dailey and J. Doreen
three and one.
Hard-hitting Sydney golfer
Frank Phillips won the N.S.W.
Close Championship with a five-
under-par aggregate of 279 on
the Concord (Sydney) course.
Phillips played brilliant golf to
be nine under the card over the
last 45 holes of the 72 played. It
was his first major win. Kel
Nagle was runner-up with 286.
* / * *
“K.R.”: Our cricketers
mightn’t have done so hot this
year, but in most other sports
we seem to be doing pretty well.
For instance, on Saturday Vic-
torian walker Ted Allsopp set a
world-record distance for a two-
hour stroll (16 miles' 401yds.,
easily beating the previous record
of just over 15 miles). It’s the
first time an Australian has set
a world walking-record.
* * *
“Veryl”: Setting a new world
speed-record on. water, Donald
Campbell drove his turbo-jet
Bluebird at 225.6 m.p.h., beat-
ing his own record of 216.2
m.p.h., made last November.
The 225 was the average of two
runs, an incredible 286 m.p.h.
and a mere 164! The run was
made on Lake Coniston
(Lancs.), one of the haunts of
Campbell’s father, Sir Malcolm,
who, in an earlier Bluebird,
more-or-less began these water
speed-records when he set 129.5
m.p.h. on Lake Maggiore (It.)
in 1937.


was supposed to know the way
in, lost heart when we got close-
up, saying there were supposed
to be big snakes inside.
That was a common story
among the blacks up there, but
we didn’t see any such snakes,
nor the tracks of any, during the
whole of our exploration. But
Tommy spoke as though all were
darkness and terror inside, and
it didn’t help much when, thus
late, he said he didn’t know the
way in—that he had never been
inside, and that many people
had ridden all the way to the
City, only to fail to gain
entrance and ride home again
disappointed.
I couldn’t decide whether
Tommy knew the way in and was
dogging it, or whether he was
only supposed to know and
didn’t. At the station they
had said that, as a Retunga,
he had come from that
country and knew all about
the City. Subsequent events con-
vinced me that he didn’t know
anything about the inside of it.
Tommy wasn’t alone in that.
You get the most dogmatic
accounts of what lies inside from
people who’ve never been near
it. “Snakes,” “debbils,” “great
holes,” “1000 ft. precipices” were
only some of the things I’d heard
about.
Literature on the place is very
scarce —the Mitchell Library has
only three indexed references,
two by K. D. Young, and a third
in a Bulletin paragraph
129/3/’44) by “Wingella” (the
late Jessie Litchfield, of Darwin).
Young has obviously been in the
Towering battlements in stone — wind and rain shaped them and will inevitably destroy them.
City; “Wingella” didn’t claim
to have been inside.
Lately, in “Walkabout,” V. C.
Hall recounted the rather
extraordinary experiences of
Mrs. Ted Heathcock when she
visited the City, but, unfortun-
ately perhaps, we had none of
the ghostly happenings which
befell her. It is, of course, very
probable that most of the others
who have visited the City have
written nothing about it.
Anyway, with my cameras, I
sidled up a defile by the water-
course, climbed a milkwood
giving out on to the top half of
a wall, scaled the remainder of
this, and looked—and there it
was!
I called out to Tommy, who
had waited down below, and he
shinned up the same way. Then
I knew he had never seen it
before, because he shouted, “Oh,
she all right!”—with heavy and
relieved emphasis on the “all
right.” He was delighted: “She
iight—beauty —nof dark —see her
all right.”
Once more, it was as Young
had described it. We were up
in the top seats of an amphi-
theatre a quarter-mile wide and
looking at a fantastic city in
stone.
Young’s “phantasmagoria of
brilliant colored towers, castles,
minarets, columns and battle-
ments in an endless variety of
shapes and sizes ranging from
humble cottages to towering
skyscrapers” were all there.
Column, spire, minaret and
bumble-bee hive—all seemed to
be growing out of the ground ;
all standing up on a level base.
They were not cavernous or
subterranean, as “Wingella”
supposed, but in vertical upright
units so separated by streets that
you could have played hide-and-
seek around them for ever.
You could certainly feel the
breathtaking sense of grandeur
to which Young refers. Tommy
kept asking weren’t the buildings
real —couldn’t this have once
been a real city? He couldn’t
be shaken out of the conviction,
and he couldn’t understand how
erosion had shaped the “build-
ings.”
The area of the main feature
would be about 2000 acres —-
roughly one-and-a-half by two-
and-a-half miles, narrowing to
the south; still further south it
widened out again into scattered
suburbs and ran on for miles in
proper suburban fashion.
We went down inside, and I
found myself, like Tommy, fall-
ing into the belief that the place
really was a city. There was
Sydney’s Martin-place, glimpsed
obliquely around the G.P.O.
corner; there was . the old
“Sydney Morning Herald” build-
ing and South British Insurance
in their labyrinthine five-ways;
there was the clock-tower on top
of the Shell building.
All these places seemed to be
there, and something quite
different besides. From the
labyrinth of sandy streets, build-
ings would start up architec-
turally correct for, say, two-
thirds of the way, and would
end-up in bizarre styles.
Thus, a nice little cottage,
trim and symmetrical, would
have the effigies of a couple of
fighting bulls for a roof. A
neat block of city flats would
support a high-peaked witch’s-
hat, cocked screwily sideways for
good measure. Then a beauti-
fully vaulted cathedral would
The “buildings” tower above the narrow streets of the Ruined City “just like Sydney.
have an ugly stovepipe chimney
running up the side and over
the top at a clumsy or derisive
angle.'
Most of the structures are
queer on top. It is a real cuckoo-
world, and if, as seemed almost
probable at the time, all the
grimacing tops had suddenly
burst out in a chorus of booma-
booma-booma I don’t think I
would have been very surprised.
I took photo after photo on
still- and cine-camera, scoring
surprise after surprise. In this
way, during the afternoon, we
walked through about five miles
of streets.
We walked clean through
some of the buildings by arch
and recess, some of these higher
and wider than the portals of
castle or cathedral. I had the
boys ride horses through them
and photographed them for the
record. In one place a wide,
unsupported bridge of sand-
stone spanned two chains from
pylon to pylon.
On the walls under this bridge,
as in many recessed places else-
where, there were the brown, red,
white, yellow or pink oxidised
handprints of natives of all sizes
down to little piccaninnies and
extending back in time for good-
ness knows how many centuries.
It was a little strange to find
so much evidence of humanity
in a place so weird, so silent and
so deserted.
Much of the stone —a lot of
it not properly indurated, so that
loose sand shed out of the sides
in places to grow up in snowy
white mounds like fine table-
salt under sheltering ledges —
carried beautiful brown, mauve,
pink or salmon oxide-stainings.
The overall color of the city is
pinkish-cream, and pure white
where recessed and protected
from the weather.
Windmill trees another
pretty phenomenon, with their
palmy branches arranged like
vanes in a semi-vertical plane
around the tree-top —were “spin-
ning” in the wind on the heights.
I got some shots of these, and
then, a little worn by our first
day’s exploration, we called it a
day and returned to our camp on
the river.
We spent two more such days,
but a change in the weather
made photography difficult. On
the second day I took my other
boy, Billy, and three new myall
boys who had smelt our camp
out on the river and turned-up
with their interminable jokes and
chatter around the fife at night.
One of them was a “new boy”
from a camp down the river
where a “king” was supposed to
be “breaking-in” about 20 of
these new (young) fellows.
These three boys and Billy
were all keen to get in and see
the City after Tommy’s glowing
account of it. They had never
been in before, so they said, and
I derived a certain ironic amuse-
ment from showing them
through the holy of holies of
their own painting and taboo and
from revealing to them the
weirdest features of the City.
Given the opportunity we all
have something of the witch-
doctor in us, but I believe that
the younger abos., like the new
fellows with me, are becoming
increasingly sceptical of all the
old things.
The weather continued to
deteriorate, and as I had a good
bag of photographs and tucker
was running low we headed back
and rode a full day by the
southern suburbs. For a last
night, however, as we drew
abreast of the city proper on the
home-journey, we hobbled our
horses out, got over the wall and
camped inside.
We heard none of the blood-
curdling sounds mentioned by
Mrs. Heathcock, but we saw the
night glow, as mentioned by
Young—“lambent and lumin-
ous” —although we couldn’t
confirm his suggested cause of
radioactivity. Our geiger-
counter, which we carried
through the whole trip, registered
nary a tick in the city of stone
and sand.
As the moon crept over the
crazy battlements, changing their
creamy sides to softest white, the
bad slums further back certainly
looked black, pocked and fore-
boding, but the foreground,
respectably lit, was as circum-
spect as Sydney.
We slept near a strikingly
beautiful shrine, the image
delicately recessed in its cream
fa?ade, and nothing disturbed
our slumber until foggy daylight.
For another full day we rode
homewards by and through the
gradually diminishing suburbs.
These still had their streets and
stone houses, but there was a
change from the great commer-
cial buildings of the city proper
to lo\yer, regular-roofed forms.
Some had little flanking court-
yards, where gardens of pan-
danus and grasstree grew in
orderly fashion beside the walls,
doors and windows and up to the
gables. These were often
Photographs processed by Kodak
(A/asla) / Ltd., from 35mm. Koda-
chrome transparencies taken by the
author.
reflected in little pools under the
eaves of the buildings and, to
confirm Tommy somewhat in his
hypothesis, you could have lived
in some of the houses—certainly
there was room enough.
From tirpe to time we struck
westward through these struc-
tures to a central core of the
wildest, cream-white, bare,
eroded badlands you ever heard
about in Utah, but we returned
quickly through the suburbs to
the flanking sandplains for softer
conditions underfoot.
So, eventually, we passed right
away and out of it all, with only
a lingering creamy stone here
and there to remind us of the
City ...
How to explain it all? Well,
scientifically stated, the differen-
tial erosion of a vertically
fissured hilltop would be about
the answer. The top —15-30 ft. —
of all the strange structures con-
sists of a relatively hard, closely
defined and horizontally bedded
sandstone. The lower 50-100 ft.
is grossly bedded and softer. The
o Continued on page 30)
Grottoes and arches large enough for horse and rider to
pass through.
A last look at the ruins on the outskirts of the City.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONL£
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ—U.S. VIEW
ris only two years since
Britain had 80,000 troops
guarding the Suez Canal, and
most surveys of the events which
culminated in the evacuation
this year of the last British
soldier refer to the effects of
American “pressure” or
“influence.”
In an account of Britain’s
relinquishing of Suez, “U.S.
News and World Report” com-
ments that “a lot of things”
entered into it besides America’s
role in the whole affair.
“There are complaints in
London,” the paper notes, “that
American pressure in 1953 and
1954 left the British no alterna-
tive but to give up their base in
Egypt and leave the canal to the
mercy of the Egyptians.
American officials insist that no
pressure was applied, but that
the U.S. did serve as an ‘honest
broker’ in bringing about the
agreement between Britain and
Egypt that led to the evacuation
of British troops.
“Sir Winston Churchill was
Prime Minister when the issue
came to a head. President Eisen-
hower was in the White House
in Washington. Sir Anthony
Eden was Britain’s Foreign
Secretary and John Foster
Dulles was U.S. Secretary of
State.
“It was on October 19, 1954
after years of hard bargaining
and troubled negotiations—that
the Churchill Government agreed
to pull British troops out of
Egypt. Secretary Dulles sent
‘heartiest congratulations’ to
both countries. Egypt’s Gamal
Abdel Nasser, then Premier and
now President, expressed his
gratitude ‘for the help and assist-
ance of the leaders and the Gov-
ernment of the, United States.’
Year of Decision
“To get the full story of why
the British left Suez after 74
years you have to go back to
1951. That was when the U.S.
first got into the picture. The
British and Egyptians had been
negotiating on their own for
years, but nothing ever came
of it.
“In 1951 the Korean war was
at its peak. The U.S. and others
began tightening defences all
around the world. In June of
that year, the United States
established its first base in the
Middle East —an airbase at
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. In
October the U.S. proposed that
a defence-system similar to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion be set up in the Middle East,
with Egypt as a partner. The
plan was to convert Suez into
an Allied base.
“Egypt rejected the idea.
Instead, the Egyptians tore up a
1936 treaty with Britain and
demanded that the British troops
get out of the country
immediately. Dean Acheson,
then Secretary of State, declared,
‘The Egyptian Government can’t
throw its international obliga-
tions overboard,’ and continued
to press for a Middle East
defence-system.
“Britain reacted promptly to
the Egyptian demand by concen-
trating forces in Suez. Troops
were moved in from far
distances. Within a short time
the Suez base-—normally 15,000
men —was crowded with 80,000
British servicemen. Reinforce-
ments were arriving so fast
had to be housed in a huge tent-
city. The installation became
Britain’s biggest military estab-
lishment anywhere.
“This is the way things stood
in mid-1952 when Egyptian
military officers led by Colonel
Nasser forced King Farouk to
abdicate and installed Major-
General Mohammed Neguib as
head of a Military Government.
Britain and the Neguib-Nasser
Government resumed negotia-
tions.
Growing Concern
“U.S., meanwhile, was becom-
ing more concerned about the
situation in the Middle East.
When Mr. Dulles came in as
Secretary of State in 1953 one
of his first official trips outside
the United States was to Egypt
and the Middle East.
“U.S. policy was undergoing a
change. Middle East experts
had decided there was no point
in trying to coax Egypt into a
defence-alliance so long as the
Arab world was practically at
swords’-point with Israel. There
was a feeling that if Britain
would voluntarily withdraw from
Egypt the action would make
that country a lasting friend and
ally of the West. There was a
feeling, too, that the U.S. was
slipping in that area ; that it had
become too closely identified
with ‘Colonial Powers’ at a time
when Egypt was determined to
dislodge the British from all
Egyptian territory.
“On May 11, 1953, Britain’s
Prime Minister told Parliament
that his Government was begin-
ning to feel the strain of pouring
both money and manpower into
the Suez base. He said:
“ ‘Naturally, we do not wish
to keep indefinitely 80,000 men
at a cost of, it might be, over
£5O-million a year, discharging
a duty which has largely fallen
on us, and us alone, of safe-
guarding the interests of the free
nations in the Middle East, and
also of preserving the inter-
national waterway of the Suez
Canal. If agreeable arrangements
can be made to enable this latter
service and also the solid main-
tenance of the strategic base, to
be discharged by agreement with
Egypt, it will mean a great saving
of our men and money.’
Official Words?
“The next day Mr. Dulles, in
Cairo, was quoted by the ‘New
York Times’ as saying:
“ ‘The defence and wellbeing
of this important part of the
world are inevitably of great
concern to the U.S. Government.
“ ‘W'e came to the conclusion
that there should be a solution
consistent with full Egyptian
sovereignty, with a phased with-
drawal of foreign troops —all to
be arranged, however, so that
the important base in the canal
area, with its depots of supplies
and system of technical super-
vision, should remain in good
working order and be available
for immediate use on behalf of
the free world in the event of
future hostilities.’
“The references to ‘full
Egyptian sovereignty’ and ‘with-
drawal of foreign troops’ caused
a stir in Britain.
“Negotiations started up again,
but agreement seemed impos-
sible. Britain insisted that a
token-force stay in Suez. Egypt
insisted that the base be relin-
quished entirely, with no strings
attached.
“Meanwhile, U.S. aid was
being pumped into Egypt,
Nasser himself encouraged the
idea that Egypt might be anxious
to join the Western defence-
alliance if only the British would
give up Suez first.
“By this time, Suez had grown
into Britain’s mightiest base in
the Middle East. There were
literally dozens of airfields within
the area. Huge supply-depots
had been built-up in the desert,
stocked with everything from
rubber-bands to five-ton block-
busters. Tanks, trucks and other
military transport were strung
out for miles along the canal
zone—protected by barbed-wire,
minefields, and war-dogs that
patrolled the barricades.
“In addition, permanent instal-
lations had been developed
through the years on a lavish
scale. These included good high-
ways, a complete railroad-net-
work, machine-shops, power-
plants, office buildings, hospitals,
water-systems. Unofficial
Milan [ltaly) “Candida'”
“AND RIGHT BEHIND ME IS THE WHOLE ARAB WORLD”
estimates were made that Great
Britain’s total investment in Suez
amounted to more than $l5OO
million.
The Hint of “Pressure”
“In December, 1953, President
Eisenhower and the Prime
Minister held a conference on
the island of Bermuda. The
Middle East, in general, and
Suez, in particular, were talked
over thoroughly in private con-
versations. On December 17,
1953, Sir Winston reported to
Parliament:
“ ‘I made it clear at Bermuda
that there was no prospect of any
modification of our position
All I can say is that our action
will be based on a careful and
faithful study of the merits of
the problem, and will not be
dictated either by the violence of
our foreign enemies or the pres-
sure of some of our best friends.’
“This was the first time any
British official had hinted
openly that Britain felt under
pressure from the U.S. to make
a deal with Egypt.
“The U.S. was, in fact, anxious
for a settlement because its
experts felt an agreement would
build-up friendship for the West
in the Middle East, but the
diplomats insist no pressure was
put on the British to get out of
Suez at all cost. The U.S.
Ambassador in Cairo, Jefferson
Caffrey, was assigned the role of
trying to bring the two sides
together. The Ambassador was
on the best of terms with Nasser
and it was felt he could reason
with the Egyptian.
m . « n . „
The Power of “Persuasion
“A diplomat with intimate
knowledge of the negotiations
through the early months of
1954 says:
“ ‘Caffrey used patient persua-
sion to get the Egyptians and
British to accept reasonable con-
cessions. He could not pressure
either side effectively, since the
U.S. was not in position in these
negotiations to pressure or to
threaten either side.’
“This is where the argument
stood in the spring of 1954:
“Britain was willing to take
most of its troops out of Suez,
But it insisted that a token-force
of 4000 men in uniform remain
in the area so that the base could
be reactivated quickly in case of
emergency. The British also
wanted a long-term agreement
that would permit them to re-
enter the base if war threatened.
“Egypt wanted the British out
quickly, completely, and with no
reservation that would give them
an excuse to return.
“Some American diplomats
felt that the British wanted too
much. But it was Ambassador
Caffrey who persuaded Nasser
that Britain needed time to give
up the base, with some assurance
of a right to return in case of
war.
“Britain, by this time, was feel-
ing many pressures. The cost of
the huge base at Suez was
becoming increasingly burden-
some. The British were fighting
Communist guerrillas in Malaya
and Mau Mau terrorists in
Kenya. Cyprus was beginning to
grow troublesome. Britain’s
military authorities felt a press-
ing need to redeploy the 80,000
men concentrated along the Suez
Canal.
The Agreement
“Finally, in July of 1954, the
two sides reached an understand-
ing. Britain lost on all main
points.
“Instead of keeping a token
military-force in the area, the
British got the right to leave 800
civilian technicians as caretakers
for base-supplies. Instead of a
long-term agreement to re-enter
the base in case of war, they got
the right to return within seven
years —only at the invitation of
Egypt and in the event that one
of the Arab countries or Turkey
was attacked. The agreement
expires in 1961.
“On October 19, 1954, the
agreement was formally
approved. Britain had to be out
of Suez within 20 months.
Troops started moving out
almost immediately.
“On June 13 of this year, the
last British soldier left Suez.
“Six weeks later to the day—
on July 26—Egypt seized the
Suez Canal.”
Soviet Atom Tests
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the Soviet’s state-
ment that it is obliged to continue
with nuclear and thermo-nuclear
tests because the U.S. and Britain
are doing likewise:
“The United States has time
and time again offered to end
these tests, under an overall
disarmament - agreement which
would be subject to controls and
inspection. But Moscow wants
no part of a plan which would
force the Soviet Union to live
up to the terms of such an
agreement.
“It claims that American tests
are dangerous because of radio-
active fallout, but that its own
tests are not. Yet, whereas the
American tests are announced in
advance and often witnessed by
the press, nobody knows what
the after-effects of the Russian
tests are in terms of destruction,
nor do neighboring nations
receive any advance notice.
“It is, indeed, fortunate that
President Eisenhower has given
fullest publicity to the Soviet
explosions by announcing them
almost as -soon as they have
occurred. This tactic has forced
Moscow to admit that it, too, is
continuing test-blasts. It may
show so-called neutral nations
which have echoed Russian
demands for an end to tests that
the Soviet Union is interested in
disarmament only if the Western
world disarms and the
Communist-dominated area does
not.”
Antarctica
In his presidential address to
the British Association Sir Ray-
mond Priestley noted that
Antarctica, which could only be
tackled as a perilous adventure
when he explored it under
Shackleton and Scott, is now
bustling with human activity.
Commenting on the many
small settlements which have
sprung up in the South,
sponsored by Governments
which dispute each other’s claim
to the territory, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” finds it “pleasing to
hear that the men on the spot
co-operate in the most friendly
way while the Power-bickering
goes on in far-off Embassies”:
“Can it be said that the
colonisation of Antarctica has
already begun? As the Inter-
national Geophysical Year
approaches, many more observa-
tion-parties will make the
journey south, and nations may
increasingly feel the need for
consolidating these footholds
rather than withdrawing from
them when the immediate
scientific job has been done. ’
Science and strategy have
given an “artificially heightened
value” to desolate wastes, the
same paper adds:
“The Distant Early Warning
line guards the New World from
trans-Polar attack. Russians and
Americans dig-in facing each
other a short flying-distance
apart across the frozen Arctic,
and the geiger-counter goes
everywhere in the search for
uranium ore.
“Now Sir Raymond shows the
strategic value of Antarctica. In
the ‘broken-backed’ stage of an
atomic war, with Suez and
Panama eliminated, the sea-
lanes round Cape Horn and the
Cape of Good Hope could be
commanded from the South.
“There is also the question of
what may be discovered m
Antarctica. It cannot be ruled


out as a possible source of
uranium and rarer metals of the
type which will be increasingly
in demand as metallurgists fight
the heat-resistance problems of
modern aircraft- and missile-
construction.
“It would, therefore, be a
mistake to assume that because
on present information
Antarctica offers no return in a
commercial sense for the heavy
cost of keeping men and equip-
ment there, Governments will
refuse to invest money in it. As
long as it seems that Antarctica
may be useful, competitive
development there is likely to
increase.
“Where Governments have, or
believe they have, a motive,
science will find a way to over-
come the natural difficulties.”
The Navy
London “Daily Telegraph”
comment on the “central
problem” facing Viscount Hail-
sham, who succeeds Viscount
Cilcennin as First Lord of the
Admiralty:
“Many people have assumed,
perhaps too easily, that the
advent of nuclear weapons has
much reduced the scope of the
Navy as an arm both of attack
and of defence. Certainly we
cannot hope to go back to the
days when British security was
assured simply by command of
the seas. Nor are. we rich
enough for experiment and
development with new naval
weapons on the immensely costly
scale which is possible for the
United States.
“Some critics have even sug-
gested that Britain’s role in the
whole structure of Western
defence can only be that of a
subsidiary to America, and that
the Navy is an expensive
anachronism.
“Such thinking has contained
many fallacies —none greater
than the assumption that any
future war must necessarily be
global, involving the massed^
forces of East and West and the
full panoply of atomic destruc-
tion. Suez has reminded us of
more likely dangers. Malaya,
Kenya and Cyprus have shown
that we cannot do without an
Army equipped with conven-
tional weapons. Now comes a
moment when we find ourselves
thankful for the continued
existence of a Mediterranean
Fleet, which many people would
Rangoon ( Burma ) "Hanthawaddy "
“THE CHINESE CULTURAL MISSION IS COMING”
have liked to see further cut-
down.
“The Navy has had to make
economies and to plan re-
organisation, in the face of a
big Soviet programme of cruiser-
and submarine-building. It is
significant that in the Navy
Estimates published last
February the only increases
suggested lay in the fields of
scientific s e r v i c es and
ammunition.
“Manpower is to be reduced
by about 6000. Scapa Flow is
being shut-down. But the First
Lord’s accompanying memor-
andum showed that quiet but
steady progress has been made
in research and in restoring an
offensive role to the Navy.
“We [Britain] have not yet
built our equivalent of the
Nautilus, but plans for nuclear-
powered submarines are going
ahead, and guided-missile ships
are on the way.”
Propaganda
“Our propaganda-services can
talk until they are blue in the
face about the wonders of
democracy, about the great
military establishment built-up in
Europe and Asia to keep them
free —they mean nothing. But
such exhibits as are being dis-
played at Kabul make an indel-
ible impression.”
That, anyway, is how the
Cleveland (U.S. A.) “Plain
Dealer” assesses the effect of
Uncle Sam’s first appearance at
the trade-fair in Afghanistan with
such exhibits as TV-sets and
wide-screen movies.
Previously, the paper notes,
America had allowed Soviet
Russia and Communist China to
steal the show. This year, how-
ever, “under a prefabricated
aluminium and plastic dome, the
United States»has set up TV-
cameras”:
“They are turned on 'the
visitors coming in and shown on
the monitors to the wondering
crowds. In another section wide-
screen movies, the first they have
seen, as is TV, make the Afghans
goggle.
“Along with these wonders
from the West there is a display
of power-tools which are a con-
stant source of amazement to a
people still operating with
methods two millenniums old.
There are also electric-trains,
which draw gasps, for Afghans
have never seen a train before.
“It is to the American pavilion
that the crowds are flocking,
much to the annoyance of the
Russians and the Chinese.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Eden: “The
battle of inflation is the new
Battle of Britain, but this time
it cannot be won by the few.
We are all in it.”
Harold Macmillan, Britain’s
Chancellor of the Exchequer:
“The Egyptian crisis is not the
only threat to the future of
Britain and her people. There
is another danger, more familiar,
less dramatic, harder to realise
but in the long run perhaps just
as serious. It is the possibility
that by our own lack of fore-
sight and sectional divisions we
may drive ourselves out of the
front rank of industrial Powers
and deprive ourselves of the
means to prosperity and great-
ness.”
Mr. Menzies : “It is apparently
not fashionable to speak of
prestige. Yet the fact remains
that peace in the world and the
efficacy of the United Nations
Charter alike require,, that the
British Commonwealth and, in
particular, its greatest and most
experienced member, the United
Kingdom, should retain power,
prestige and moral influence.”
Admiral Radford: “There is
good reason to believe that we
[the U.S.] normally overestimate
Communist capabilities in almost
every respect. I think we are in
a dangerous position vis-a-vis the
Communists in that respect to-
day, because there has been an
almost hysterical assumption of
great capabilities on the part of
the Communists, some of which,
in my opinion, actually do not
exist.”
U.S. Chief of Staff of the Air
Force, General Nathan F. Twin-
ing: “We cannot afford to keep
in our armed forces conventional
forces for the old type of war-
fare plus those for atomic war-
fare. We have got to make up
our minds which way we are
going to go.”
President Eisenhower: “We
live in a shrunken world, a world
in which oceans are crossed in
hours, a world in which a single-
minded despotism menaces the
scattered freedoms of scores of
struggling independent nations.
To ensure the combined strength
of friendly nations is for all of
us an elementary matter of self-
preservation —as elementary as
having a stout militia in the days
of the flintlock.”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following:
Thoughts on Convict Management
(Hobart, 1838), by A. Maconochie;
Eight Months with Dr. Leichhardt in
1846-47 (Sydney, 1888); Australian
Insects, by K. C. McKeown; J H.
Maiden’s The Weeds of N.S.W. (vol.
I), The Forest Flora of N.S.W. (com-
plete or any parts) and A Critical
Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus
(complete or any parts). —6398.
Copy of the old song “Teaching
McFadden to Waltz.” Words and a
rough idea of the melody-notes would
suffice. —6397.
To exchange various books, includ-
ing Business Power, for stamps. Also
exchange Operatic Duets (vol. II;
Royal edition; for soprano and
mezzo-soprano) for piano-music or
reed-organ music.—6399.
Words of the verse containing the
lines: —
Bv the muddy river Gwydir
There dwelled a redback-spider
Then there came a spieler
With a nitty-looking sheila
The plot hereabouts thickens as they
conspire to rob a shearer, asleep on
the bank of the river. Last lme goes
something like: “This spider had
saved him 67 of the best.” —6400.
Information Sought
(1) Explanation of the musical scale-
system ? (2) Is there any limit to the
number of different tunes that can be
composed ?
(1) A scale is the stepwise arrange-
ment of all the principal notes found
in the music of a period or people. It
would be impossible to list every
scale; it is some indication of the
vast number of different scales that
there is not one musical interval (space
between two notes) common to all the
scales of the world. The Western
note-series evolves from about 550 b.c.,
when Pythagoras, experimenting with
strings, found that a division at the
half raised the pitch an octave; that
a two-thirds division raised the pitch
by a perfect fifth; and that a division
at the three-quarter raised the pitch
V; a perfect fourth. Having now
tonic, subdominant, dominant and
upper tonic, the intermediate intervals
received attention. The interval
between the fourth and the fifth was
called a “tone,” and the gap between
tonic and subdominant was divided
into two tones and a half-tone. The
dominant-upper-tonic interval was
similarly divided into 2{- tones. Thus
the Western major scale of eight notes
(octave) and 12 semitones came into
being. For every one of the 13 major
scales there are two corresponding
minor forms, the Melodic and
Harmonic. There are also the
Chromatic scale (one employing solely
semitonal intervals) and the Dodecupal
scale (using all 12 semitones of the
major scale on equal terms and in
their own right, not for purely orna-
mental purposes). Some Oriental races
use scales with divisions of quarter-
tones and even less. These micro-
tonic scales offer an exceedingly wide
range of chordal possibilities; the
Hindu system divides the Western
octave of eight notes and 12 semi-
tones into no fewer than 22. Then
there is the Whole-tone scale (allowing
six instead of seven notes between
tonic and upper-tonic) popularised by
Debussy and the impressionists of his
period. This scale had occasionally
been used earlier by Rossini, Berlioz,
Moussorgsky and others. There is
also a Pentatonic scale (allowing only
five different notes within the span of
an octave), and even a Bagpipe scale,
which extends from G on the treble-
stave to A above it. (2) No.
* * * *
Particulars of Australian poetess
Mar\ Finnin ?
Born at Geelong (Vic.), now Mrs.
J. J. Connellan, she was for a time
art-mistress at. Geelong’s Church of
England Boys’ Grammar School. Her
poetry, says Miller and Macartney’s
Australian Literature, “consists of an
even lyricism more often resolved into
comment than image.... [she has] a
feeling for local associations, as when
rains ‘lull in their beds the men who
dream of crops,’ or through scenes
visualised, as, for instance, in ‘Near
Kosciusko’: ‘This little tarn of magic
—crystal cup Holding a mountain
image two miles high’ A recurring
consciousness of our destiny of ‘dust,
that provides for worms dark places,’
is offset by satisfaction in the fact that
the same element ‘holds from the sea
the windy nests of plovers.’ ” She has
had several books of poetry published,
including A Beggar’s Opera (1938),
Look Down, Olympians (1939) and
Alms tor Oblivion (1947). A regular
contributor to The Bulletin, her last
published verse herein was “Sheep
Song,” in this year’s sheep-and-wool
issue (B. 30/5/’56).
* * * *
Brief particulars of the French
engineer E. D. Nicolle. associated with
Thomas Mort in the first export from
Australia of frozen-beef ?
Son of a Professor of Botany, he
was born at Rouen (Normandy) in
1823, and was educated at Rouen,
Paris and in Italy; he spoke five
languages fluently. He lived for a time
in London, helping while there in the
building of the Crystal Palace, and
came to Australia in the early 1860’s.
Working as a civil engineer, mainly in
Sydney, he soon invented a machine
to make ice (the refrigerant used
being ammonia, a big step forward)
and designed a new ice-refrigerator.
Nicolle provided the science and Mort
the capital in experiments to decide
the practicability of frozen-meat
exports to European markets. Freez-
ing-works were erected at Darling
Harbor (Sydney) and slaughterhouses
in the Lithgow' valley; and, after years
of preparation, the industry was on
its way in 1875. Mort spent £BO,OOO
on the venture, and another £20,000
was subscribed; and the ship Northam
was chartered to take a trial shipment
to England. Delays occurred, and the
ship was not ready for sea till April,
1877; then a defect which Nicolle
could not right was discovered in the
cooling-machinery, and the project
was abandoned. The failure was a
severe blow to Mort, who abandoned
his efforts. (He died soon after, on
May 9, 1878, unaware of the eventual
success of the experiments.) Between
1861 and 1876 12 patents for inven-
tions relating to freezing-machines
were issued to Mort and Nicolle, and
Nicolle was also associated with Mort
in the working of the kerosene-shale
deposits at Hartley, devising the
machinery required to distil the oil
from the mineral. On retiring Nicolle
settled at Lake Illawarra, where he
entertained such men of science as
Professor David, Shackleton, Russell
the astronomer, and M. Louie
(Pasteur’s nephew), and spent his time
in scientific study. He died there on
Nov. 24, 1909.
Brief Answers
W.S.: (1) For the history of that
Service, see Squadron-Leader J. M. S.
Ross’s Royal New Zealand Air Force
(1955), a volume of the Official
History of New Zealand in the Second
World War. (2) N.Z.’s No. 15
Fighter Squadron, as related by
Squadron-Leader Ross, was formed in
June, 1942, and disbanded Oct., 1945.
Its tours of duty were—N.Z., June-
Oct., 1942; Tonga, Oct., 1942-March,
1943; Guadalcanal, April-June, 1943,
Sept.-Oct., 1943, May-June, 1944;
New Georgia, Oct.-Nov., 1943, Dec.,
1943-Jan., 1944; Bougainville, June-
July, 1944, Nov.-Dee., 1944, June-
Sept., 1945; Santo, Sept.-Oct., 1944,
Jan.-Feb., 1945: Green Island, Feb.-
April, 1945. It flew Kittyhawks 1942-
44, then changed to Corsairs for the
remainder of its service... .A.H.8.:
To answer your questions front-to-
back: (3) The compulsory-unionism
law is actually law, although there
seems to be a marked reluctance to
enforce it. (2) Whether you accept a
dismissal notice or not does not really
matter; you are still dismissed. You
may have an action for wrongful
dismissal, (1) This is a very vexed
question. You may be dismissed for
refusing to join a union, because your
employer is technically liable to a
penalty for employing you. On the
other hand, in some unions the
difficulty may arise with other mem-
bers of the union. It is possible to
get a certificate exempting you from
the necessity to join a union, but the
attitude of fellow-employees in some
of the more militant unions is difficult
either to predict or to control
H. : (1) The Biological Campaign
against Prickly-pear, by Alan P. Dodd,
one-time officer-in-charge of the Com-
monwealth Prickly Pear Board
(published 1940), doesn’t mention his
name as being prominent in the
destruction of the pest. (2) Yes, the
Hon. Walter Ernest Wearne (1867-
1931) was N.S.W. Minister of Lands
in the Fuller (Nationalist) Government
when the Prickly Pear Act was
passed in 1924 G.J.G.: All figures
given are £’ooo. (1) Payable June 30,
1950: Total Commonwealth debt,
I, total State debt, 1,078,809;
national debt, 2,909,436; interest pay-
able on Commonwealth debt, 51,936;
interest payable on State debt, 34,181;
interest payable on national debt,
85,577. (2) Payable Dec. 31, 1954 (in
same order as 1950 figures):
1,927,380; 1,767,939; 3,695,319;
53,694; 57,605; 111,299. (3) At
June 30, 1956, the total Common-
wealth debt was 1,926.6; the total
State debt, 1,962.0; the national debt,
3,888.6 M.N.S.: (1) In N.S.W. it
is necessary to have beeh domiciled
in the State for three years;
remarriage is possible six months after
the decree-nisi, or a shorter time if
the court so orders. In Victoria two
years’ residence in the State is
necessary; remarriage is possible not
less than three months from decree-
nisi. S.A., six months after decree-
nisi, or a shorter time, as the court
directs; W.A., between three and six
months; Tas., six months, or such
shorter time as the court directs.
Papua, six months; New Guinea, not
less than six months; Northern
Territory, six months, or such shorter
time as the court directs. (2) Prob-
ably Queensland. However, you may
not institute divorce-proceedings in
any State merely by living there —
you must have a domicile; that is, a
genuine intention to make your-home
there... .M.H.: Write The Director,
Commonwealth Experimental Building
Station, Delhi-road, North Ryde,
N.S.W F.D.R.P. (Johannesburg):
To the best of our knowledge, “Belle-
rive,” though not as prolific as pre-
viously, is still around. (2) “Mat’s
Mate” was a pen-name used by
Charles Shaw, who passed on in
August last year.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
5.L.8.: “Evening Shadows”
gathers up all the old properties and
sets a commonplace scene
C. 8.: Some people don’t ramble half
as much in their dreams... .H.D.:
Sorry, but your subject has been
teared to tatters A.W.W.: No use
for conventional novelettes of that
sort D.C.: The metre rambles and
shambles along in a very ungainly
fashion... .R.J.D.: Doesn’t do much
more than repeat the opening para-
graph E.C.F.: Really the splitting
of those fine hairs doesn’t interest us
much; the subject better suits a
Shakspearian society.... E.T.G.:
You say: “A sentence or two here and
there may be. left out. I haven’t had
time to read it over.” We haven’t
time to read that sort of manuscript
either L.L.: The incidents are too
mild to be worth remembering; and
the events too jumbled to understand.
... .8.T.: The lines are like a straggly
hedge of prickly-pear T.F.S.: One
thing about your poem that staggered
the Religious Editor was the exorbitant
price of lobsters these days A.L.:
Chief things wrong: (1) You write
when you have nothing real to say; (2)
you strain your lines to eke them out
with old phrases P.S.: The fact
that a diamond will outlast a man
doesn’t strike us as a matter of “sur-
prise” and “awe.” Even a common
brick will do that U.M.: Has
that swindle been worked again, or is
it the old tale retold?... .E.L.: We
don’t like parodies. We don’t like
your way of inventing words to make
rhymes. In fact, we don’t like any-
thing about the poem W.A.S.:
One stanza should make the casual
bloke think:
Oh thoughts of life,
Ah vain regret!
Consider what it is!
Pretence is rife —
Why do we fret?
Discontented with our bliss!
A.M.K.; It was time your verse-
factory was closed down for repairs
to the" machinery... .L.A.C.: Murder
yarn rumbles along like a steamroller.
E.P.: How on earth do you
manage to see an echo of a- call? —.
F.C.P.: No use sending us selection of
inferior verse that has appeared else-
where N.M.: “The Loaded Gun 5 *
misfired. *


“What would you say if we
gave the country back”
“Don’t talk to me, Charlie, y’
b 1 i don’t like bein’ seen
talkin’ to blacks.” Albert fairly
rocked off his seat with this ; he
pawed with both hands, and his
black companion, who had
awakened, joined in almost as
heartily.
Suddenly Albert became seri-
ous.
“Y’ know,” he confided to me,
“everyone thinks I’m an
aborigine, but I ain’t, I’m an
Indian.”
I opened my mouth to say
that I couldn’t see that it. was
anything against a man to be an
aborigine, but he was going on:
“My mother was an Indian,
but no one’ll believe it. ‘Abo.,’
they say! And y’ can imagine
what chance you’ve got of gettin’
a drink on the South Coast if
you’re an abo.”
I looked at his cast of face
and, privately, without comment-
ing on the interpretation of the
State’s liquor laws, could not
blame the publicans for their
opinions as to his race.
Charlie chipped in, sefious, for
once:
“We’ve had some wonderful
times together, this gentleman
and myself.” He indicated
Albert with a jerked thumb.
“In the Army together?”
“No ; after the war.”
“I used to drive a truck for
him,” Albert interrupted.
But the train was pulling in to
my station. I nodded good-
night to all the occupants of the
carriage and opened the door.
“Well, if as ’ow you’ve got to
leave us, all I can say is ‘ore-if-
or,’ as they learnt us at Ladies’
College.”
“Mrs. ’Obbs” roared with
laughter and,pawed at me as I
stepped out on to the platform.
and Gus were shouting out at
him and I could hear their feet
scraping all oyer the boards on
the veranda.
I ran downstairs and went for
the front door, and Dad and
Mum came behind me and we
hurried outside to see what the
fuss was all about.
There was Heeler with the leg
of Gus’s pants between his teeth
with Gus pulling one way and
Heeler the other and Phil pulling
onto Heeler. Every time Gus
pulled away, his pants split a
bit more and the tear was above
the knee by this time. Phil was
only making things worse,
because every time she pulled
Heeler back, the pants split a bit
more still.
GUS was calling Heeler the
kind of names I heard the
men use who were carrying in
our new refrigerator and the
ropes slipped as they were going
up the back steps into the
kitchen and one leg of the
refrigerator came down on a
man’s foot. Gus is a very quiet
sort of a fellow, and I didn’t
think he could use words like
that.
Dad got Heeler by the neck
and around the stomach again
and threw him into the hall and
told me to go inside and keep the
door closed. I did like he told
me and went into the lounge-
room and listened to the row
at the window.
First of all, it was between
Dad and Gus about the pants
and Heeler. Gus told Dad that
he should have more sense,
keeping a savage dog like that.
Dad said he was sorry ; he would
pay for the pants. Gus said that
wasn’t the point. He said that
wouldn’t do any good because
it wouldn’t stop Heeler biting
people and Dad should have
sense enough to know that.
Then Phil told Gus not to
speak to Dad like that, when
he was doing his best to fix
things up.
Gus said to Phil, “I expected
you to be reasonable, anyway.”
That seemed to make Phil
mad at Gus. She told Gus that
she was very reasonable, but she
wasn’t going to be reasonable
when someone spoke to her
father like that.
So Gus said that was fine, he
knew where he stood, now.
Mum said that it was silly to be
going on like this, but Gus
couldn’t have heard her. He
walked down the path and out
the front gate with his knee
coming through the pants at
every second step. It didn’t look
too good because Gus’s legs are
pretty skinny.
Things didn’t look too good
for Heeler, either, and all on
account of Gus.
If Gus hadn’t pulled back so
hard his pants would not have
been ripped. The trouble was,
Gys didn’t understand dogs. If
he did he would have known
that Heeler only wanted to have
a game of tug-o’-war. I taught
him that. And Heeler wouldn’t
have wanted to play with Gus
if he had not taken a liking to
him.
I thought after this trouble
they might send Heeler away,
even though I know Dad likes
Heeler as much as I do.
Dad says Heeler is a good
“All my life , Mr. Speaker, I've fought for a square deal and a higher
standard of living for every honorable member in the House!"
watchdog and he likes to
have him about the place for
that. If we are all out and
someone comes to the house
and knocks on the door, Heeler
runs around to the front and
stays with the visitor until some-
one comes home. Once a man
came to the door selling sauce-
pans when we were all out, and
when we got home the man said
that Heeler had stayed with him
for three hours; so Mum said
she would buy a set of saucepans
and the man said that it didn’t
matter about the saucepans and
he would much rather get out-
side the front-gate. He hasn’t
come back yet to sell Mum the
saucepans.
I knew that they were talking
of sending Heeler away because
whenever I came near them they
would stop talking.
Like the morning after the row
—I was a bit late down for break-
fast and I heard Phil say, “Well,
we won’t. We certainly won't do
it just to please him." Mum said,
“It’s not to please him,” and
Dad said, “Pass the sugar,” very
loudly when he saw me
coming in.
I CAME home from school in
the afternoon and found
Heeler chewing up a letter in the
hall. I didn’t know how the letter
got out into the hall, unless
Heeler had taken it from the
letterbox, but he’d never done
that before and he had never
chewed up any letters, either.
There was no one else in the
house at the time, as Dad and
Phil were at work, and Mum was
over visiting Grandpa and
Grandma about their wedding-
anniversary.
I picked up the biggest bit of
the envelope and made out the
name as best I could. It was
written in ink and looked as
though it was addressed to Phil.
The other bits were all over the
hall. I couldn’t tell what had
been written in the letter; it had
been chewed so much.
I knew that Heeler’d get into
a lot of trouble if anyone found
out about this, and they’d send
him away for sure. There was
only one thing to do, so I did it.
I took all those bits of letter
down the backyard and burnt
them, every scrap ; then I gave
Heeler a clip on the ear and
told him not to go chewing up
letters any more like that.
We left him to look after the
place when we all went over
to Grandpa and Grandma’s place
for their anniversary the next
night.
Phil came this time, and I
bet she found it pretty dull, like
me, with all those old people
talking all night and dancing
around like they had boards
nailed right up their legs. I
promised not to laugh this time,
and I didn’t, either.
I was pretty tired when we
all got home about one-o’clock.
Dad drove the car into the drive-
way ; and Phil, sitting next to
me in the back, bounced up and
down a few times on the seat,
waking me up, and said, “There
he is! He’s there! Gus!” —like
she had been looking for him
all over the place.
We could see Gus in the car-
headlights standing against the
wall on the veranda near the
front-door. Heeler was a few
feet away, standing in front of
Gus.
Gus went to move towards the
car and Heeler lifted his head
and showed his teeth. Gus
moved back against the wall like
he had springs in his shoes.
We all got out of the car and
I called Heeler over to me. He
was very pleased with himself,
jumping up on me and licking
my face and barking like mad.
Gus wanted to have another
row about Heeler then. He said
that Heeler had kept him stand-
ing near the front-door all night.
Every time he went to move,
Heeler- would snarl at him, he
said. So he stayed where he was.
I suppose he didn’t want any
more ripped pants.
Dad said Heeler had a bad
habit of doing that and it was
very unfortunate.
Mum asked Gus to come in
for supper and Gus said, “I
don’t know that I should.”
Phil asked him why not and
he said, “Well, I thought I
explained in the letter.”
T>HIL was very surprised.
“Letter? What letter?”
“The letter l dropped in on
Monday,” Gus said.
“You wrote a letter to me?”
“Yes. And I dropped it in
on Monday.”
Phil said, “I didn’t get a letter
from you, Gus. I don’t know
what you’re talking about.”
I knew what he was talking
about, but I wasn’t saying any-
thing.
Gus said that he wrote this
letter to Phil, saying that he
would be over tonight to talk
over this business of the ripped
pants, and if Phil wasn’t there,
then he would understand why,
he said. He had put it under
the door as he passed the house
on Monday, because, he said,
a letter delivered by hand should
not be put in the letterbox, and
there wasn’t anyone home he
could give it to.
So when he came over and
the house was deserted, he
thought that Phil and the family
didn’t want to see him and he
was going home again, but he
couldn’t on account of Heeler.
That letter was a great mystery
to everyone and they all said
they hadn’t seerj it. Mum asked
me if I had seen it and I said
no. That wasn’t telling a lie,
exactly, because I had only seen
bits of it.
The way Mum looked at me,
I thought she didn’t believe me.
I was glad to hear Phil say to
Gus, “It doesn’t matter now.
I'm glad you came.”
Gus seemed very surprised at
this and he asked, “Are you?”
and Mum said, “Let’s go inside
for a cup of tea.”
Well, they talked about Heeler
for a while and Dad said that
when Heeler got to know Gus
better he wouldn’t take so much
interest in him.
Gus said he wanted to get
to know Heeler better, too, no
matter how long it took.
Things are pretty quiet
around here lately. Gus is getting
to know Heeler real well; he
calls on Phil so often, and Phil
doesn't rouse on Heeler half as
much as she used to.
I am trying my best to unteach
Heeler the tug-o’-war game, but
it is hard to unteach a dog
anything.
effect of the hard stuff on top
has been to hold-up erosion ot
the under-portion. At the same
time, the under-portion being
softer, the weather has played
tricks with sides.
Add the vertical Assuring, and
you have something of the effect
you would get by placing candy
caps over closely packed lumps
of loaf-sugar and then dripping
water on them, blowing on them
the while and occasionally shak-
ing the table.
All the country I saw was
sandstone, presumably terrestrial
(shallow water-formed). There
were no shales, nor did I see any
of the limestone mentioned by
both Young and Hall. Young
talked of the possibility of oil
there, and compared the area
with Oklahoma but who
knows?
On returning to Sydney I
showed some of my photographs
to Gordon Packham, of the
Geology Department at the Uni-
versity. He immediately opened
a stratigraphic textbook showing
the Boyce Canyon, Utah, U.S.A.
The formations resemble those
of the Ruined City, but are on a
much smaller scale.
The Ruined City feature is not
analogous to the Grand Canyon
or the erosion canyons of our
own Blue Mountains, as these
latter emphasise the chasm. The
Ruined City and the Boyce
Canyon are alike in that they
emphasise the filling-in pieces
within the overall erosion
feature.
The Three Sisters of the Blue
Mountains are more the sort ot
things that one sees all the time
in the Ruined City, but these
would be very junior members oi
the family compared with their
relations in Arnhem Land.
Young refers to an “authority
who suggests that the nightly
glow in the Ruined City is due
to the whole block having
broken and fallen off the moon-
somebody apparently getting the
shine mixed up with the moon!
It only remains to speculate
on what will happen to the City-
Well, it won’t be long—in the
geological sense —before it is at
one with the wattle and whip-
stick sandplains which every-
where surround it. Its life is
linked with the diminishing top
caps. Once these wear away the
rest will topple over and melt like
pillars of salt.
The hollow rumble that hoof-
beats drum out of the immediate
surrounding plain are ominous
for the City, for these noisy
parts are the sunken outskirts
already eroded down and now
just under sandy ground-level.


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” No. 27*
1
■ Pi
y
m
• 1
5 a *
mmm.
i
$$
td»*.Zxo
The First Customs House
Sydney’s first Customs House was
established early last century in a
building close to the south-eastern
corner of Sydney Cove, near where
Bridge Street to-day, climbs up the
hill towards Macquarie Street.
If old reports are accurate, this Customs
House came into existence in an un-
orthodox fashion. Early in 1800, funds
were urgently needed to build a gaol,
and to raise finance it was decided to
levy a duty on spirits, wine and beer. A
Customs office was established in a small
three-roomed building with a bark roof.
One of these rooms, measuring 10 ft. by
12 ft., was reputedly occupied by the
head of the department; another was
allotted to general use, and the third
was a store “on the upper part of which
sentries were stationed night and day.”
Up to 1827, an official (known as the
Naval Officer) was charged with the
collection of import duties, but in that
year a change was made. A new and
more spacious Customs House, with
accommodation for a growing army of
officers and clerks, was established on
the site of what is now Sydney’s G.P.O.
and the colony’s Customs Department
was placed under the direction of the
Commissioner of Customs in England.
Although it had been intended that this
transfer should be only temporary, it
was not until about 1840 that a new
shift was made—to a building near the
Argyle Cut, west of Sydney Cove. Since
then, Sydney’s Customs Houses have
stayed close to the waterfront.
As Sydney grew and the population of
the colony expanded, it became evident
that customs levies were likely to provide
a major source of revenue. As a result, a
new Customs House was commenced in
1844 at Circular Quay. This building
was completed and opened in April,
1845. It remained in use for 40 years
when it was demolished to make way
for the present fine, building.
In the 1850’s Australia’s Customs and
Excise revenue was in the vicinity of
£500,000 annually. This figure has grown
to some £244 million for last year,
forming a substantial source of our
national income.
*
Customs Tower at La Perouse.
In the days of Governor Macquarie this
tower at La Perouse was erected, and it
was from the top that a sharp look-out
for smugglers was kept by Customs
officers, in an effort to increase badly
needed Customs and Excise revenue.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
* Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application to Tucker & Co, Ply. Limited
' HF27a
riot. Unlike Miss Plugson, Mr.
Schilsky didn’t resent anyone
helping to put the place to rights ;
on the contrary, he seemed only
too glad for Dad to do as he
pleased with it.
“As a matter of fact,” Dad
said proudly, “I did pretty
nearly all the work, and hard
going it was, too. Between you
and me” —this was to Mother,
in an undertone —“the poor
devil’s in very bad shape. His
heart, you know; and there’s
something wrong with his back.
He can’t do any stooping or
lifting at all.
“From what he said I
gathered he’d had a shocking
time over there in Europe—in
prison-camps, you know ; he was
lucky to come out alive. You
don’t mind helping someone
who’s been through that sort of
thing. And he’s extremely
grateful; he kept saying, ‘You
are so good, Mr. Porter.’ So I
said I’d help him all I could,
even if it means putting off a
few urgent jobs for a while.”
That was beginning of our
acquaintance with the Schilskys.
Mrs. Schilsky took Mother at
her word, and was always run-
ning over to see if she could
spare a little bit of this or that—
sometimes it was sugar or tea —
she was always running short
after the shops had closed—or
matches, or soap, or the loan
of a saucepan. Mother never
minded lending, though once or
twice she said it was time Mrs.
Schilsky settled down to house-
keeping properly, but she
supposed it was all so strange
and difficult for her to remember
everything she needed.
TTNTIL their garden was
cleaned-up and new lawns
planted and the paths concreted
—Miss Plugson had only had
tiny little paths made of bricks,
and Dad persuaded Mr. Schilsky
that laying concrete was child’s
play with a mixer he could
borrow —Dad practically lived at
the house across the road.
He would come back,
knocked-out and dirty, in the
evenings, and say how grateful
Mr. Schilsky was for the little bit
of help he was able to give him,
and how sorry he [Mr. Schilsky]
was that he couldn’t do the work
all by himself. But that, of
course, was out of the question,
with his war-time injuries leav-
ing him little better than a
cripple: he could only be
thankful that he had found such
a good friend as Dad, he said.
When the garden was put in
order, there was the house to be
tackled, and he and Dad set
about it with a will. Dad
borrowed a painter’s blow-lamp,
and they burnt off all the old
peeling paintwork—at least, Dad
did, all except the lower boards
that Mr. Schilsky could reach
without climbing on a ladder.
Climbing a ladder, or exerting
himself in any way, was prac-
tically signing his own death-
warrant, he told Dad. So most
of the time he had to be content
to just stand around, smoking
a cigarette and occasionally
handing up something to Dad,
or telling him, “It looks so
good!”
Then Mr. Schilsky bought a
lot of paint, and between them,
Mr. Schilsky painting a few
boards here and there he could
reach without exertion and Dad
doing the rest, they painted the
whole house. That was the only
thing Dad grumbled about; he
said it was a very poor-quality
paint that Mr. Schilsky had got
hold of, and wouldn’t last twelve
months, and it was really a waste
of time to put it on ; but Mr.
Schilsky shrugged his wide
shoulders, and said it would have
to do for the time being, as he
couldn’t afford anything better.
And the main thing was to get
the house looking nice and clean
for when the children arrived.
That was the great reason for
the energetic way the Schilskys
had set about doing up the whole
place'straight away.
“It will all be so marvellously
thrilling for them,” Mother said
one day, when she had just come
back from the house across the
road.
“Just think, they have not set
eyes on their little ones for over
twelve months,” she went on.
“They had to leave them behind
in Europe with Mrs. Schilsky’s
sister. And now she’s bringing
them out to Australia. They’ll
be here in a few weeks now, Mrs.
Schilsky says. Of course I asked
her all about the children, and
just to talk about them made her
cry, poor little woman. She kept
putting her handkerchief to her
face and dabbing her eyes all the
time while she was telling me
about them —two little girls and
a boy, just like us. Isn’t that
strange?”
“Why, Mum,” young Pam
piped up, “it’s two boys and a
girl, I’m sure it is : I was asking
Mr. Schilsky, and I’m certain
that’s what he said.”
“I’m positive Mrs. Schilsky
said two little girls,” said
Mother. “She told me their
names, too, but I can’t quite
remember what they were.
Perhaps you misunderstood Mr.
Schilsky. He hasn’t got a proper
grip of our language yet, you
know.”
“He’s coming on, though,”
Dick remarked. “He swears like
a dinkum Aussie. I know, ’cause
I heard him the other day when
his gate jammed. He swore at
it something awful —worse than
Dad, even ; he didn’t just say
damn or blast, but”
“Never mind what he said,
son,” Dad chipped in quickly.
“It’s surprising how soon some
of these New Australians pick
up some of our —well, our less
polite expressions. They hear
their mates using them at work,
I suppose; Mr. Schilsky prob-
ably didn’t even realise he was
using bad language.”
“Oh, he knew all right,” Dick
replied, “ ’cause when he looked
around and saw me—l’d come
up the street behind him —he
grinned and said, ‘Sorry, son,
didn’t know you were there,’ just
like you say sometimes. Not
like he usually speaks at all.
Then he coughed and said: ‘I
have not said the right word,
no? You not tell anyone?”’
“There, you see,” Dad said,
“the poor chap realised he must
have said something wrong : he’ll
probably avoid it in future.”
Tk/TOTHER - remarked, “I
wonder if they’d be offended
if we offered them one or two
odds-and-ends for the children’s-
rooms? I was thinking of Pam’s
old cot; it would look all right
painted. And there’s that bed-
stead we never use, and the old
chest-of-drawers clutter ing-up
Dick’s bedroom, and perhaps one
or two other things we don’t
really need. I know they haven’t
got anything at all for their little
ones so far, and time’s getting
on. I don’t mean to sell them,
of course —they must be finding
it hard to manage as it is, without
buying furniture.”
Dad said she could only offer
the things and see, so Mother
did, and the Schilskys weren’t
in the least offended. It almost
made Mrs. Schilsky cry to have
such kindness shown to them, she
said ; so Mother felt very glad
she had asked her, and Dad
painted the cot and mended the
bedstead and the chest-of-
drawers, and they found some
other things and took them over
to the Schilskys.
You can guess we were excited
when the time drew near for the
Schilskys’ family to arrive—
more excited than the Schilskys
were themselves, even. And
then, a week or two before the
children were due, when the
house had been all painted-up,
inside and out —Dad had spent
almost every evening helping
them do up the inside for nearly
a fortnight—lots and lots of
visitors called on the Schilskys.
That surprised us a bit, because
previously the Schilskys had
never had any visitors at all; in
fact I don’t think anyone had
gone there except Dad and
Mother during the first month or
so. None of them stayed very
long, but Mr. Schilsky and Mrs.
Schilsky always seemed pleased
to see them, and showed them all
around the house and the
garden; and Mother said she
supposed the poor things hadn’t
liked to ask any of their friends
to call until they had the place
looking respectable.
And then we got another
surprise: Mr. Schilsky drove up
one afternoon in a brand-new
car. Dick and I were outside
playing in the street, so we ran
across to look at it and speak
to Mr. Schilsky ; but he just gave
us a funny little curt nod and
went inside without a word.
When we told Dad about the
car he said it beat him how these
fellows did it, for Mr. Schilsky
never seemed to have a red cent,
and he didn’t even have a regular
job. Which was true —about the
job, I mean. Mr. Schilsky was
often at home during the day-
time, just lounging about and
smoking, and when Mother
asked Mrs. Schilsky what he
did, Mrs. Schilsky said he did a
job for a friend now and then,
but he was finding it hard to get
regular work till he knew the
language properly.
The morning after the car
arrived Mr. and Mrs. Schilsky
got into it: Mrs. Schilsky waved
her hand to Mother, who was
out in the front garden, and they
drove away.
Later in the day a taxi drove
up with a man and a woman
and four children, and they
went into the Schilskys’ house.
A small van followed with
some furniture and suitcases.
Their name was Polsen, we
found out, and they had bought
the house across the road with
everything in it from the
Schilskys.
THAT was the last we ever saw
of Mr. and Mrs. Schilsky,
and almost the last we heard of
them, but not quite.
About three weeks later a
plainclothes policeman called to
see Dad and had a long talk with
him. A whole lot of people, it
seemed, were very anxious to
find out where the Schilskys
were, and as we were reported
to be friendly with them he
thought Dad might be able to
help.
There were the butcher and
baker and grocer and other
tradespeople, whom the
Schilskys hadn’t paid a penny to
—though Mother said they
couldn’t possibly owe the grocer
much, as she’d kept them herselt
in tea and matches and sugar and
things—as well as other people
they’d bought things from on
credit.
The Schilskys had had a way
of wheedling goods out of trades-
men, the policeman said,
especially Mrs. Schilsky, who
would look helpless and pretend
not to understand properly, or
to have left her purse at home,
when she was asked to pay.
It turned out, too, that their
real name was Schaldring, and
they weren’t New Australians at
all, but made a practice of buying
dilapidated places and doing
them up to sell at high prices,
and then disappearing without
paying the painters and
plumbers. As for Mr. Schilsky’s
sufferings in prison, there was an
element of truth in that; he’d
been in jail more than once, and
would be sent back there if they
(Continued on page 33)


Graziers have reported
that one o£ the bene-
ficial results of using
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for the marking
of lambs is the dis-
appearance of arth-
ritis. Even if Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings did
no more than provide
protection against this
crippling complaint
the adoption of this
modern hygienic and
bloodless lamb-mark-
ing method is surely
justified.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of,
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ADELAIDE ROYAL SHOW
GOOD-MATURE pre-
vailed over mud to make the
Adelaide Royal Show one of the
most successful ever.
But success came only after
a shaky start the worst on
record since 1925. It was the
State’s wettest Show. Inter-
State visitors agreed that
probably no other Royal Show
in Australia had had to contend
with the arena-conditions caused
by rain. Churned-up by horses
in action, the grass oval will have
to be resurfaced before next
year’s Show. At the Grand
Parade, most exhibitors wore
giimboots, many went barefoot.
The weather must have given
R.A. and H.S. officials a worrying
time for the first few days. For
this was the second year of in-
creased admission-charges—now
4s. The public, tasting the near-
double charges last year, had
kept away in droves despite
bright sunshine. Numbers then
were down by nearly 80,000.
By this year, perhaps, Adelaide
people were more used to the
idea. But Dad still had to pay
Is. for a pastie and 7d. for a
cup of tea. Sample - bags
averaged 2s. 6d. each. Free
samples were practically non-
existent, except for sprays of
scent and thimblefuls of hot
soup.
With attendance up near the
half-million mark for the seven-
day Show, policewomen were
even busier than last year
returning lost children to anxious
parents. On Ladies’ Day they
coped with over 100 Davy
Crocketts and spa9emen.
Many admirers thronged the
new dog-pavilion. But even the
latest facilities for showing
cannot prevent the unpredictable.
W. C. Duckworth, who had
judged dogs at hundreds of
Shows, including 54 Royal
Shows, was bitten for the first
time —by an Alsatian.
Other buildings, too, showed
signs of the R.A. and H.S.’s
new-look. Many had been
painted inside and out since last
year.
Relations with the press
showed a new-look, too. Perhaps
worried byTast year’s attendance-
slump, the society used a public-
relations man for the first time.
Amid the bustle of the Show,
there was little sign of the effect
of the worst floods in the State’s
history. Most stock reflected
South Australia’s 11th successive
good season, rather than any
setback by widespread flooding.
However, the absence of a
district-exhibit here, a leading
dairy-breeder there, and a
friendly face at the bar, reminded
many a visitor of the disaster.
Much of South Australia’s
rich Murray River flats—some
of the best farming country in
Australia —is under water. The
number of homes and farms
beneath the water, which is miles
wide in places, has not been
reckoned yet. But, awake to the
hardship, the public has already
subscribed over a quarter-
million in relief.
In Adelaide, they judge the
Merinos indoors. This year,
more than ever, big crowds
watched this section—possibly
forced in by the rain and wind.
Merino entries increased by
17, to 297.
In its third year of Adelaide
competition, the Eringa Park
stud of S. Kidman and Co., Ltd.,
Kapunda (S.A:), took the
Among the dairy-breeds—the winning team in it sire’s-progeny class at Adelaide Show.
Merino grand-champion ribbon
with a massive ram which
H. Biggin, of Karingal, Kondinin
(W.A.), had placed at the head
of the strong-wool class.
The grand-champion was last
year’s reserve grand-champion,
and was sired by an Old
Bungaree ram bought by Eringa
Park in 1951 for 2000gns.
C. R. Mclnnis, of Donara,
Hallett (S.A.), paraded the grand-
champion Merino ewe. Strong-
wool champion ewe from the
“under 1000” classes, she was
a different sheep from the one
held in the grand-championship
line-up by Mr. Mclnnis for the
past two years.
A probe into her ancestry did
not reveal quite the blue-blood
background expected. Her sire
never won a ribbon—he sold for
40gns. at the Adelaide ram-sales
last year—nor did her dam have
any show-record. But the “under
1000” strong-wool judge, C. H.
Dunn, of Ryelands, Tarlee
(S.A.), considered the two-year-
old an outstanding ewe: “She
was well sprung with a lot of
wool,” he said.
The coveted Jubilee Challenge
Trophy for the best exhibit of
five Merino sheep went to W. B.
Ashby and Sons, Ltd., Ashrose,
Hallett (S.A.), for the third year
in succession.
A feature of the sheep-classes
at this year’s Show was the
appearance of Poll Merinos in
the ring for the first time at
Adelaide. R. W. Lehmann and
Sons, of Flairville, Georgetown
(S.A.)* won most ribbons in this
section.
In the wool-section, the prize
for the most valuable fleece of
ram’s wool went to K. Phillips,
Ltd., Eudunda (S.A.). The fleece,
of 60’s-quality wool, weighed
33£lb. and was valued at £lO Bs.
The championship for the
most valuable Merino-ewe fleece
went to L. B. Rayner and Son,
The Bluff, Hallett (S.A.), for a
66’s-quality fleece cutting 241 b.
and valued at £7 16s. 8d. —the
third year in succession this
stud has won the award.
Many of the prize-winning
sheep at the Show stood in the
pens later in the week for the
1956 A-delaide Merino ram-
sales. Getting an average of
£159 7s. 6d. a head at this two-
day sale, four agents offered
348 rams, selling 267 at auction
for £42,553 15s. 6d. This set a
record, beating last year’s
average of £143 Bs.
Buyers were finicky, however,
and money was far from
plentiful. High prices were kept
for high quality.
In South Australia, the
demand is for stronger-quality
wool, but more and more buyers
are demanding softness of
handle as well.
John Collins and Sons,
Collinsville, Mt. Bryan (S.A.),
had a remarkable sale. They
offered 30 rams, selling 20 of
them to 1800gns. for an average
£647 7s. —probably the highest
average for a large catalogue
ever obtained at the Adelaide
sales.
Poll Merinos brought spirited
bidding. R. W. Lehmann and
Sons, of Flairville stud, George-
town (S.A.), sold six to 740gns.,
for an average of £363 3s. Poll
Boonoke (N.S.W.) brought a
team of six, to sell for a £330 15s.
average, the top price being
525gns.'
Haddon Rig Stud (N.S.W.)
appeared in an Adelaide cata-
logue for the first time since the
1920’5. They brought a team
of three, to sell their top ram
to Melton stud, Hallett (S.A.),
for lOOOgns. The team averaged
£462.
Victorian ' breeders again
dominated the Corriedale sec-
tion. R. H. R. Baker, Baringhup
(Vic.), took the ewe champion-
ship for the third year in succes-
sion. He also exhibited the
champion ram.
Both reserve-champions were
exhibited by A. E. Mclntosh,
Horsham (Vic.).
E. W. Nitschke and Son,
Nairne (S.A.), were the outstand-
ing exhibitors in the Polwarth
section, winning all four major
awards as well as first-prize in
every section.
New breeders swelled entries
in many classes of British-breed
sections. Dorset Horn judge
G. R. M. Smith, Marylebone,
Cudal (N.S.W.), said the Dorset
Horns shown were of the type
providing a rapidly-growing,
heavily-fleshed cross-bred sucker-
lamb of the right weight for the
home- and export-market.
He considered the class for
a pen of two shorn rams the
strongest in the section, picking
from it both champion and
reserve-champion.
The champion was exhibited
by W. J. Dawkins Newbold, Ltd.,
Gawler River (S.A.), the reserve
champion by W. S. Martin and
Sons, Sandy Creek (S.A.). C. M.
Hart and Co., New Devon, Two
Wells (S.A.), paraded the cham-
pion ewe.
A woman exhibiting in her
first Royal Show won the
Border Leicester champion-ram
ribbon. She was Mrs. M. C.
Eustis, of Willunga (S.A.). Mel-
bourne's Border Leicester
reserve-champion ram of this
year, owned by D. E. Brown
and Son, Manesty, Maitland
(S.A.), was given the reserve
award by the judge, R. R. King,
of Warracknabeal (Vic.).
E. F. Hancock, Warrackna-
beal (Vic.), won both ram and
ewe championships in the South-
down section. v
In the Romney Marsh section,
the ram championship went to
L R. Spehr, of Furner (S.A.).
D. C. Cowell, of Woodside
(S.A.), won the ewe award.
Jerseys again dominated the
dairy-cattle section, with a near-
record of 336 entries, compared
with 319 last year.
Returning to Adelaide after
18 years, Jersey judge E. W.
Flower, of Gunawah stud, Binna
Burra (N.S.W.), congratulated
S.A. breeders on the improve-
ment in the breed since then.
For his champion cow he
selected G. O’H. Giles’s Lanac
Countess 10th, also winner of
the four-year-old in-milk class.
The section was a triumph for
entries from Mr. Giles’s Mount
Compass (S.A.) Lanac stud.
Apart from his champion cow,
he won five firsts, four seconds
and one third, to become the
most successful exhibitor.
But it was Lounsdale Lassie
Belle 4th, the reserve-champion
Jersey cow exhibited by A. B.
Tilley, of Port Mac Donnell
(S.A.), which went on to be
champion dairy-cow of any
breed.
Mr. Flower chose H. L. Bowey
and Son’s Trecarne Regal
Monarch as champion Jersey
bull. “He was hard to fault.
He resembled Oxford Lincoln,
champion at Sydney for the past
five years. I would like to see
the two bulls meet in the show-
ring,” the judge said.
The president of the Australian
Jersey Herd Society, H. R.
Walsh, felt that the tops exhibited
at Adelaide this year were “good,
but not quite up to last year’s
standard.” But: “The quality
of the young stock augured well
for the future. One of the most
pleasing features of the day was
the success of younger breeders.”
A tally of prize-lists showed
that 23 breeders shared the
honors. Among the names, those
of newer breeders figured pro-
minently.
Friesian entries tumbled from
114 last year to 71 this year.
Many ringsiders felt that quality,
too, wasn’t on a par with
previous Adelaide Royals.
The judge, J. T. Strachan, of
Warragul (Vic.), said that to
improve the standard of Friesians
in S.A., breeders should be
careful to keep up the strength
of frame, should pay attention to
the hindquarters, and should
bear in mind that a Friesian is a
high milk-producing cow, not a
high butterfat-producing cow.
A. judge, M. C. Lester,
Warwick (Q.), selected A. T.
Braendler’s Glenella Angeline
6th as champion cow. He chose
A. J. Mueller and Son’s Parkview
Shakespeare for his champion
bull.
B. H. Basham, Pleasant Banks,
Pt. Elliot (S.A.), was the most
successful Guernsey exhibitor,
with nine first-prizes, six seconds,
five thirds and champion cow.
In the Ayrshire section,, the
only dehorned Ayrshire cow to
win a championship in any
Royal Show in Australia gained
top honors for the second year
in succession. She is Davada
Linda, from the stud of
G. H. and T. A. Martin, of
Kadina (S.A.).
Aberdeen Angus breeder R. C.
Shepherd, of Myponga (S.A.),
was the most successful exhibitor
of beef-cattle.
His Tallara Lassie won the
junior and senior A.A. champion-
cow ribbon. Later she went on
to win the supreme award, from
champion bull Terinallum
Gallant, owned by T. Kidman,
Mt. Crawford (S.A.). This was
Mr. Kidman’s third successive
championship.
Poll Herefords were the
strongest numerically among
beef-breeds. Poll Herefords
also boast the largest
membership of any breed-
society in South Australia.
This year they have 45 members
on the roll, president of the S.A.
branch of the Australian Poll
Hereford Society D. C. Coombe
says. And three new members
are waiting to be admitted,
while another seven are waiting
for nominations.
L. E. Greenslade’s Dalwhinnie
Carnival took the champion-bull
award, J. Wi Spehr and Son's
Coongra Coquette 2nd the
champion-cow.
Dalwhinnie Carnival was sold
to C. R. Finch, Bono, Menindee
(N.S.W.), for 750gns. at the stud-
cattle sales after the show.
Other beeficattle champions
were: Shorthorn bull, J. S. and
A. B. Walter’s Koolah Tenant;
cow, R. Norris’s Weddip Camelia
2nd. Poll Shorthorn bull, J. G.
Kelly and Son’s Hazelton
Astral; cow, J. Parker's Old
Canowie Cherry Ripe 10th
(supreme award). Hereford bull,
E. W. and U. Hayward’s Silver-
ton Victory; cow, E. W. and
U. Hayward’s Silverton Fancy
4th. Devon bull, A. A. Laidlaw’s
Table Top Rumble; cow, Mrs.
J. M. Officer’s Kilmorey South
Apricot 27th.
Both quality and quantity
leapt ahead in (he Red Poll
section. Seventy-six entries
paraded where 12 months ago
South Australia could manage
only 27. The champion bull was
Larkhill Perriot, shown by Hill-
view Props., of Sandilands, Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.). The same stud
paraded the champion cow.
Almost every judge found
fault with the training of beef-
cattle entries. Many had not
been taught even the funda-
mentals of standing and parad-
ing. This provided an unneces-
sary and often critical handicap
on the breeder, they pointed out.
Pig-numbers were down
slightly on last year, but competi-
tion was often fierce. However,
it was the sales after the show
which stole the limelight.
At the Large White auctions,
prices soared to nearly twice the
rates ruling last year.
The president of the S.A. Stud
Pig Society, R. W. Correll, said
the sale was the best, especially
for boars, he had ever attended
in Australia.
Spirited bidding reflected keen
competition.
S. L. Dawkins, Para Wirra,
Gawler River (S.A.), had a


m
h
/
z
s/Asm
Patent No. 156596
‘ir'i
R iD'f*" ttMU>
ofP&resoMfH!
REAP B/6 PROF/TS?
fiROAi RFCZ4/Af£Q
OPERATING COSTS ONLY II- AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
8 ft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
Chains harden with use.
• Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
• The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land ipto production in
one season! increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
DSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South RuL, Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS— S. A. : Elder, Smith & Co, Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: V igmores Ltd.;
WesfarmefS Co-op. Ltd. N.9.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Rambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Pordson” Dealers. N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven, Ltd., 359
Moorhouse Road, Christchurch. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers .
Nwmo)
ON VI
' ..
m
Aid
BUN YIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
rero to 50 feet.
: : ¥:•;
m
' :
m
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced of
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
687 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX2515
Agents throughout Australia.
jstll in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME
ADDRESS
could catch him. The police-
man said the Polsens, who were
genuine New Australians, had
paid twice as much as the house
and the few sticks of furniture
in it were worth.
Dad was furious at the thought
of how he’d been taken-in by Mr.
Schiisky. He calculated how
many hours he’d spent gardening
and painting, and worked it out
at so much an hour, and it came
to hundreds of pounds.
“I’d give twenty pounds to see
the scoundrel behind iron bars! ”
Dad exclaimed, and asked
whether he couldn’t sue him for
all the work he had done. But
the policeman said he didn’t
think so, seeing that Mr. Schiisky
had been too cunning to ask for
help, and had never led him to
believe he’d be paid for it.
However, lots of other people
could prove he’d obtained goods
on false pretences, so he’d go to
jail if they ever found him.
Mother was angry, too, at
having given so much to the
Schilskys out of pity; she
declared that Mrs. Schiisky must
have been laughing up her sleeve
instead of crying when she
talked about the children they
had left behind in Europe. And
she and Dad almost quarrelled
over whose idea it had been to
give them this and that. What
riled them both was realising
how they should have seen
through the Schilskys right from
the start if they’d put two and
two together.
Mother got over it after a
while, and the Polsens turned out
to be such nice neighbors that
she said she was glad we had
done something towards making
their new home comfortable, and
none of us were ever to let on
that the cot and things were
really ours.
But Dad vowed he’d never give
anyone a helping hand again as
long as he lived, and for months
after no one dared mention the
Schilskys in his hearing. Then
one morning he picked up the
paper, and started laughing.
“What’s the joke?” Mother
snapped. She was never in a
good mood at breakfast-time,
with the lunches to cut and Dad
in a hurry to catch his train.
“Have we won the lottery?”
“You’d never guess,”' Dad
said, smiling broadly. “The
police have just picked up the
Schilskys.”
And next Saturday he painted
our kitchen cabinet.
remarkable sale. His top price
of 160gns. was paid by C. H.
Norman, of Beverley (S.A.), for
Para Wirra Peter May 2nd, a
boar first in the under-five-month
section. This is probably an
Australian-record price for a
Large White of this age.
Mr. Dawkins sold another
young boar for 1524gns.—the
junior champion —to Mr. A.
Lankenau, of Highbury (S.A.).
C. G.
After the Rains
“Graz.”: Heavy storms have
caused the silting-up of dams
here in the central-west of N. S.
Wales (and doubtless elsewhere),
and the first six months of dry
weather will see many properties
short of water. Underground
supplies could not be better, but
in many cases it would not be
advisable to depend on these.
In the past seven wet years
many hundreds of millions of
gallons filtering underneath have
made the passages freer and
quicker. In the next dry spell I
anticipate that springs and other
underground supplies, no t
including the artesian-bores, will
dry-up much quicker than they
did in the dry ’forties.
Severe storms have eroded the
beds of gullies and creeks, filling
long-standing waterholes with
debris and gravel. In some cases
the torrent came down so rapidly
the water cut across the bends,
causing streams to alter course.
Nothing can be done to stop
underground water getting away,
but dams could be cleaned, even
if this meant pumping out the
water. Floods could be made to
clean-out waterholes in creeks by
fixing logs across the stream
immediately above the original
holes in order to create a water-
fall to scour out the debris.
PenieilHn for Bloat
“Sundowner”*: Research at the
Mississippi State College in the
U.S.A. has demonstrated that
small doses of penicillin will con-
trol bloat in cattle fed on
straight ladino-clover, a legume
which normally causes bloat
when fed in quantity.
The tests showed that a pinch
of penicillin for a 6001 b. animal,
and slightly more for a 9001 b.
beast, checked the bloat-produc-
ing bacteria. In further tests it
is intended to mix the antibiotic
with salt placed in the pastures
so that the cattle can treat them-
selves.
White Cabbage-
butterfly
“Myall”: The white cabbage-
butterfly is one of the worst
pests the market-gardener has
to contend with, particularly
during the warmer months of the
year, but in districts where heavy
frosts do not occur it is destruc-
tive the Whole year round.
Cabbages and cauliflowers are
mostly attacked, but all the
brassicas and a number of other
vegetables may be hosts. The
butterfly is white or a very pale
yellow, with a body fin. long,
and a wing-span of about
to ’3in. The bright-green grubs
grow to the length of an inch,
and are very voracious feeders,
devouring the leaves of a young
plant in a few hours.
When a mature plant is
attacked, the excrement lodges
in the heart, making the appear-
ance of the vegetable anything
but inviting.
The only effective treatment
is to spray the plants from the
time they show their second
leaves with a gamma-isomer of
benzene-hexachloride every seven
days until maturity.
Bamboo
“Bill 0.”; Bamboo is one of
the toughest grasses available for
checking water- or wind-erosion.
It can stand great heat and cold,
and when established is almost
as much at home on dry sand as
on watery mud.
The giant variety growing in
tall, thick clumps is your best bet
if you want future poles for
yard-building, but humulius is
more suitable for wind-breaking
and erosion-control.
The bamboos make a lot of
root-growth at and near the sur-
face, and by shedding “trash”
mulch their stems and produce
their own humus. They are
propagatable by cuttings, rooted
sections and canes chopped into
lengths and laid in trenches.
Summer and spring are best
planting-seasons. But be wary
when planting them on the edge
of arable land, lest they speedily
take over the lot —most likely in
tropical climates.
Stock are keen on them
from the start —leaves and
suckers —so run a sound fence
around until they’re away. After-
wards some gnawing will help to
thicken the stand. And where
brown-snakes abound expect
plenty of • them around the
clumps when these get a firm
hold.
Molybdenum for the
Garden
“Billjim”: Discussing the use
of molybdenum for the market-
garden, R. O. Kefford, Victorian
horticulturist, says larger
amounts of this element are
required for that purpose than
for pasture-soils.’
He says that from ilb. to lib.
of ammonium-molybdenum per
acre is required to deal with
“whiptail” of cauliflower or
stunting of peas, whereas only
2oz. per acre is needed to
stimulate healthy pasture-growth.
However, farmers growing
vegetables as a rotation-crop
must be careful in applying
molybdenum to paddocks which
will later be grazed by cattle, as
an excess of the element could
bring about scouring.
The safest method with cauli-
flower-crops is to water the
seedlings in the bed with the
trace-element, at 1/10 oz. per
gallon per square-yard, a fort-
night before planting-out. P eas >
on the other hand, should be
sprayed at the rate of zlb. per
100 gallons, per acre.
Kefford warns not to teed the
vines of such crops to
Most tbe molybdenum-
deficient soils m Victoria have
so far been found in the Mel-
bourne metropolitan area and
Gippsland.
Farm Hints
c. : To make good-quality
lime-mortar, mix 2cwt. of fresh
burnt lime with 24 cubic-feet of
sand. Such a batch should lay
a bout 1000 bricks. For addi-
tional strength, add 10 per cent,
cement.
“Mooney Mooney”: Run
separator at speed directed by
maker. Fat-loss in skim-milk is
increased in proportion to
decrease in number of normal
revolutions. Turning at too high
a speed gives a richer-testing
cream, but you are likely to
gradually injure the mechanism
of the separator.
„
H. : If you want duck-eggs,
on t go m for Muscovies,
eyre fine table-birds, but 100
eggs a year are the most you 11
ge iiom them, and they 11 eat
irbea r ds °f- , For e Sgs, get
Khaki Campbells or Indian
Runners. A 3ft. fence will keep
x/r eSe .’ Wltbin ojlldsV 0 j Ilds V ; r For
Muscovies, you need a 6ft. one
or better.
Grass seed abscess
C.A.A. .. Grass-seed abscess
< or lumpy-jaw) of cattle needs
careful treatment. First, it is
necessary to provide drainage
and t ben disinfect the cavity,
Dettol is a good disinfectant,
Finally, wound should be packed
with cottonwool soaked in a
2\ per cent, solution of iodine.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/9/’56)
Queensland should receive rains, associated with storms,
in many areas during October. Little rain-relief, however,
may occur in the north-west until November, when there
should be reasonably good rains.
With the exception of light to moderate, patchy rains
on the central coast and central tablelands, N.S.W. should
receive moderate general rains during October. Moderate
follow-on rain should occur during November, with the
possibility of heavy rains during December, particularly in
the eastern half of the State.
General rains should continue in Victoria during
October, with moderate rains in the western division. Apart
from good storm-rains during the first half of November,
rainfall should be light and patchy for the balance of the
year.
S.A. may receive general rains during October, with
similar conditions for the balance of the year. The interior
and Central Australia may receive very heavy rains during
November-December.
. In W.A. during October, light to moderate rain should
occur in the south-west, with light rain in the Gascoyne and
goldfields areas. Good rains in portion of the Kimberleys,
with similar conditions during November-December.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The New Poor
Last place I had seen him was in the
manager’s room of a large suburban
branch of a bank —and he was not sit-
ting on the customers’ side of the table,
either. Today I ran into him once more.
He was at the post-office counter collect-
ing his age-pension. Widening of the
means-test entitled him to a few more bob
per week than his bank-pension provided.
There was no false pride about him as
he cheerfully explained what he was there
for.
It brought home to me very vividly
the plight of such men on fixed incomes.
In past years bank-salaries did not permit
of much in the way of saving, and most
bank-employees had the mistaken idea
that, provided they paid their annual con-
tributions to superannuation-funds, the
future would take care of itself. We ail
know what has happened to such ideas as
that, and with inflation spiralling on its
merry way the end is not yet.
These people—and there are many of
them —have generally led useful hard-
working lives. They have, out of small
salaries, made provision—as they thought
—for old age, with no intention of ever
becoming a charge oh the State, but that
is exactly the position in which they
now find themselves.
And yet on every Parliamentary broad-
cast we hear nothing but talk of Aus-
tralia’s high level of prosperity— Pro-
FUNDIS (N.S.W.).
Age and Youth
A prominent church leader said the
other day that young people in Australia
were inclined to “scrap” their aged
parents as if they were old pieces of
furniture or secondhand cars.
He added that, as superintendent of a.
city mission, he received an average of
five or six telephone-calls daily from
young people asking him either to have
old persons placed in an institution or to
find a room for each of them —a room in
someone else’s house, of course. Many
of the callers were in sound financial
positions, but they wanted to have their
parents put away somewhere to avoid the
responsibility and worry of looking after
them.
In no other country, he asserted, was
there such a strained relationship between
youth and age, indicating a great need
to foster and strengthen family-ties.
His remarks support the view that our
“ C'mon —do you Want to cause a traffic-jam?”
modern progress in' the “Welfare State”
aims far too much at dodging personal
responsibility and leaving it to the State.
For education and medical treatment we
now rely very largely upon the State’s
facilities; housing, for many people, is
something “the Government” ought to
provide for them ; the care of aged
parents, too, is rapidly becoming looked
upon as a matter for institutions rather
than for the'family.
Some of the young couples who so
blithely relieve themselves of their duties
towards their parents might feel
differently when their (urn comes. —
Ardoyne (Vic.).
One of the disadvantages of retirement
is the loneliness it brings through loss of
contacts with former working-associates.
Laudable attempts to correct this are
being made in Perth, where a city rest-
centre is to be provided for aged pen-
sioners to forgather, read the paper and
write letters during intervals of waiting
for trains or buses on pension-days or on
other occasions.
In connection with the social needs of
pensioners, Westralian Health Minister
Emil Nulsen has weighed-in with the sug-
gestion that old-age pensioners should no
longer be referred to as such, but should
be designated “senior citizens.”
This implication that the term “pen-
sioner” carries some suspicion of stigma
reflects the difference in the present out-
look from that at the turn of the century.
In those pre-Federation days there were
no old-age or other social-service pensions
and, of course, no Australian war-
pensions. The few pensioners who lived
in our district when I was a boy—mostly
retired men from Government services—
were looked up to as men who had been
someone and had achieved something.
To describe a man as a Government
pensioner in those days was to pay him a
compliment. Why should it be necessary
to find a new designation now? —Pip Tok
(W.A.).
The Keg
Sydney police are to be commended
for their attitude towards kegs of beer
at future Sunday cricket-games in
reserves and parks. Even the coverage
of a tent will not exclude the organiser
from possible confiscation and court-
attendance.
To many motorists who drive through
Centennial Park on Sunday afternoons
the ban will come as a blessing. For
many years now the sight of bare-chested,
bare-footed and half-muddled men has
been a blot on the landscape.
The future of Australian cricket is not
likely to suffer through this curtailment,
and the vacant wickets which may now
become available will be used by
properly-clad boys with the correct
cricket spirit.— Rekab (N.S.W.). t
The Marriage-rate
Has the economic independence of
women anything to do with the decreas-
ing marriage - rate (“Swilliam,” B.
8/8/’56)? Early in the century marriage
was almost the only career for women.
Later, as they gained more freedom, jobs
were scarce and not well-paid. World
War II saw plenty of work and money
for women, but not the freedom of
movement. Now, however, they have
both money and freedom, and many are
making the most of it.
Many of my contemporaries have been
overseas. They are now wellTdressed,
attractive, well-travelled—and unwed. A
surprising number of attractive women
do not marry until about 30. Then many
of them, and a lot of untravelled younger
ones, are reluctant to have a family until
they have all mod. cons., including a car
(and soon a TV-set). Then they find it
too much trouble to have more than
one or two children,
People from big families know that
that “family-feeling” does not prevail
until there are about four of more
children in the home. Most women who
argue that economic reasons, fear of war
or ill-health stop them from having more
than one or two children generally have
one big reason which they won’t admit —
too much trouble.—Q. Ree (Fiji).
Anzac Day March
“Shippy” (B. 5/9/’56) is incorrect. The
R.S.L. Congress went into committee to
discuss the Anzac Day march problem,
quickly decided the matter and then,
“When the toind's right I'm going to attempt the sound-barrier."
resuming in open congress, confirmed the
decision taken in committee.
As the president explained, it was
undesirable to let the world know the
details of what was clearly a domestic
discussion. The decision only was what
mattered to the general public.
The president later thanked the
assembled press-representatives for their
loyal observance of this point, as well
as their uniformly friendly reporting
throughout the congress period.— Digger
(N.S.W.).
Steam Efficiency
I wasn’t kidding when I offered “Four
Threes” millions of internal-combustion
engines of less efficiency than steam (B.
29/8/’56). I was thinking of the ordinary
petrol-engine at about 20-22 per cent, and
a coal-burning powerhouse at 27-30 per
cent.
If “Four Threes” wants locomotives,
then a coal-burner will run from about
5-14 per cent, and a diesel-electric from
below unity to 27 per cent., depending on
loading. The diesel job is very inefficient
at a low percentage of output, the gas-
turbine-electric simply horrible. In fact,
the only successful gas-turbine units to
date are engaged in hauling up a
mountainside. They come down on an
auxiliary diesel with the turbine cut-out.
Steam power-plants are now reaching
enormous size—up to 340,000 kw. (450,000
h.p.) in one two-shaft set, or 200,000 kw.
(270,000 h.p.) on a single shaft —and effi-
ciencies are nearing 40 per cent. To get
such figures, red-hot steam is used at up
to 50001 b. per square inch and is re-
turned to the boiler a couple of times for
reheating as it cools in its passage through
the turbine.
At the same time, to enable huge quan-
tities of energy to be transmitted over
long distances, voltages are being pushed
up to enormous heights, 400,000 volts
being relatively common, with 650,000
volts proposed for the near future. At
the latter figure each ampere transmitted
represents some 875 h.p.— Transporticus
(Singapore).
steam and Diesel
I can’t agree with “Transporticus”
(B. 22/8/’56) in his comparison of steam
and diesel-electric locomotives. *
In N. S. Wales it was found that d,-e.
working-expenses per 1000 ton-miles were
just over half of steam working-expenses.
It is in point of efficiency that steam
is beaten.
When the Alcos C4O-class diesel-
electrics were introduced on the N. S.
Wales railways they were first put on
the coal-working from Newcastle (Broad-
meadow), and were regularly doing three
round-trips (607 miles) in 27 hours,
taking full loads each way. They went
in for mechanical check-up after three
days’ running (nine round-trips, or 1800
miles). Steam would need mechanical
servicing after each single run.
While on this working the Alcos were
used in pairs under the control of one
engine-driver and his mate,
When diesel-electrics were being tested
for the Brisbane Express a pair of Alcos
under the control of one crew hauled
the longest and heaviest load to leave
Sydney station, and had sufficient fuel-
oil .to work to South Brisbane and back
to Grafton (792 miles). It takes three
steam-locomotives to do the same run.
The Brisbane Limited is now worked
by a Clyde d.-e. (42-class), working S
one day and back the next (1226 miles).
This is clear proof of one d.-e. doing the
work of three steam,
The only place at which the d.-e.s
receive mechanical attention is at Enfield
(N.S.W.). /
The regular rostered working of the
40-class now on fast inter-State freight
is: Out of Enfield after mechanical
check-up, thence north- to Broadmeadow
(101 miles), and Ihen Taree (235 miles)
or Werris Creek (255 miles); then on
return work right through to Albury, 399
miles from Sydney, and return to Sydney
—anything from 1000 to 1300 miles
before being examined by a fitter. There
are no stops for loco, purposes except
to change enginemen on completion of
their mileage run. On the west runs d.-e.s
are to be used on the Dubbo and Parkes
Daylight, and will do the round-trip
(552 or 574 miles), whereas steam-locos,
are changed at Bathurst on the down-
run and the up-run.
While in depot between runs a steam-
loco. must be kept in steam, using coal
and water, and would need some
mechanical attention in addition to clean-
ing ; the d.-e. would only require clean-
ing and no further attention until about
five minutes before whistling-out—the
diesel would generate sufficient power in
that time, whereas a steam-loco, would
need a full fire made-up an hour before
whistling-out to have a full head of
steam when attached to the train. In
actual working in N. S. Wales there is no
comparison in economy and mobility.
There are two question-marks, how-
ever: diesel-oil is all, or partly, dollar-oil,
restricting the importation of heavy
machinery and office-machines for which
U.S.A. is the best supplier. Secondly,
how will the life of the d.-e. compare with
steam? The C 32 (P)-class engines were
introduced in 1902 and are now hauling
10 per cent, more loading and running
to faster tables than when introduced.
The mileage between workshop over-
hauls has remained constant. Certainly
new boilers, valves and piston - rings
have been fitted during their life,
but apart from that they are as they were
built— Y. Tope (N.S.W.).
“Transporticus” says dieselisation is
“fashionable,” and prophesies that it will
close-down small mining-centres in
Queensland. Answer to this is that just
under 21-million tons of coal valued at
over £6l million was produced last year
—a slight drop on the previous year’s
all-time State record of just over 21-
million tons valued at nearly £6l million.
In the past six years, State consumption
of coal has increased by 27.9 per cent,
and production has been raised by 27.3
per cent. Queensland’s export coal-trade
has grown from an almost negligible
4847 tons for the year ended June 30,
1950, to 131,857 tons in the year ended
June 30, 1955.
In addition to this export trade, m
1954-55 Queensland collieries supplied
more than 10,000 tons of coal to ships
for bunkers. Would “Transporticus call
that “spurious” progress? _
Here are some other indications ot
so-called “spurious” progress:
The eight air-conditioned diesel trains


operating in Queensland have provided a
standard of passenger-comfort equal to
that on any train operating in Australia
today, and indeed in many oversea
countries.
Use of diesel traction on the Queens-
land railways has permitted schedules to
be cut and trainloads to be increased
Their greater traffic availability enables
much higher mileages to be obtained in
a comparable period than is possible with
steam-locomotives. Freight-trains hauled
by diesels are landing freight in Towns-
ville, 832 miles from Brisbane, 40 hours
after their departure from the capital.
“Fashionable” isn’t the word!
The big developments at Mt. Isa and
Mary Kathleen have rendered dieselisa-
tion necessary to cope with the
enormously increased traffic expected.
That position had not arisen in 1951. It
has been estimated that, within the next
four or five years, the T’ownsville-
Cloncurry-Mt. Isa railway will be required
to haul an annual increase of 95 per cent,
in the inward tonnage to Mt. Isa and an
annual outward tonnage increase from
Mt. Isa by 78 per cent.
In addition, during the next three years,
the railway will be required to haul an
additional 59,000 tons of new traffic con-
sequent upon the development and opera-
tion of the Mary Kathleen uranium
field. This traffic already has begun.
Three years hence, when production
will commence, the haulage will be 24}-
thousand tons annually. Enormously in-
creased demand for coal will be inevitable
as a result of the operations at Mary
Kathleen and the planned expansion of
production at Mount Isa, which includes
the establishment of an electrolytic
copper-refinery at Townsville with an
initial treatment-capacity of 30,000 tons
a year. — Clem Lack (Q.).
Examinations
Queensland’s new ConserVaforium of
Music should help to keep the State’s
promising young musicians at home, but
a statement by the newly-appointed
director (Dr. Lovelock) that only candi-
dates with scholastic passes of junior
standard will be accepted as pupils needs
consideration.
It is logical to expect that pupils who
intend to study music should be literate,
but to insist on the wider knowledge
inseparable from a secondary-school
education could exclude many whose
scholastic attainments are overshadowed
by their musical promise.
Surely a knowledge of quadratic
equations, or of the principal exports of
Chile, is not an essential part of a
violinist’s training. We don’t expect
students in medicine or science even to
sing a scale in tune. — Seahawk (Q.).
Why Wireless Licences?
I agree with “Ardoyne” (B. 5/9/’56)
that wireless-licences should be abolished.
Further, I have long thought that the
whole broadcasting business as conducted
by the Commonwealth is beyond the
powers of the Constitution.
It seems that the Broadcasting Act
derives any validity it may have from
Section 51 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, which gives Parliament power
to make laws with respect to postal,
telephonic, telegraphic and other like
services. The official view, apparently, is
that the words “like services” can be
stretched to cover broadcasting, even
though it was unthought and unheard of
when the Constitution was framed. It
could not have been the intention of the
framers to cover such a service, or any
other of the multitudinous entrepreneur
activities conducted by the A.B.C. today.
In law, the little matter of intention is
very important. It’s a mighty long jump
from telegraphic and telephonic services,
as understood at the time of the Con-
stitution, to broadcasting and TV, and the
relevant section (51) has never been
amended or enlarged.
The Constitution is not made of elastic,
and I suggest that “Ardoyne” and some
fellow-listeners-in form a group to resist
payment of their licence-fees on the
grounds mentioned. Surely no court
could maintain that the framers of the
Constitution, even in their most prophetic
moments, ever contemplated such diverse
activities as are now conducted by the
A.8.C., let alone the imposition of a tax
on anyone who might happen to own a
receiving-set.— Ceg (Vic.).
New State
If any part of Australia is justified
in agitating for the creation of a new
State it is surely the South Coast
(N.S.W.). In matters of transport no
other part of Australia has been so
neglected—there is no railway beyond
Bomaderry, on the northern side of the
Shoalhaven River, and the fairly big
town of Nowra on the opposite side is
deprived of a railway-station because
bridging the river is considered too
expensive.
The lower section of the area was
once served by sea, right down as far as
Eden on Twofold Bay, but about 30 years
ago the passenger-boats ceased to run,
and quite recently the cargo-boats were
taken off.
There is not a finer port anywhere in
Australia than Twofold Bay, large and
deep enough to take the British Fleet
and the biggest vessels afloat, but nothing
has been done to develop it. Even a rail-
link with Southern Monaro and the
Riverina would enable producers in
those parts to get their goods to ship
by a route only a fraction of the distance
they must now travel to Sydney.
Right down the coast from Jervis Bay
to the Victorian border there are dozens
of splendid spots which would become
ideal tourist-rdsorts if they were served
by an efficient transport-service. To
mention a few there are Bateman’s Bay,
Bermagui, Tuross Heads, Moruya,
Tathra, Merimbula Lake and miles of
beaches along the shores of Twofold
Bay.
When the Federal Parliament was
transferred to Canberra the people on
the South Coast naturally thought that
Jervis Bay would be developed as a
seaport for the Federal capital—a large
area on Jervis Bay was made Federal
territory for this purpose —but Canberra
has been developed and Jervis Bay has
been forgotten. The rail-link between
Canberra and Jervis Bay is still a dream.
No other part of N.S.W. has been
neglected as much as this south-eastern
corner. —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Navajos as Migrants
The Navajo Indians of New Mexico,
U.S.A., had started to evolve a civilisa-
tion of their own when Europeans first
made contact with them. They lived in
large adobe buildings of several stories,
with apartments for each family, after
the style of our modern blocks of flats.
They grew crops under irrigation, and
they had worked out a conservation
policy for the local game they hunted.
They resisted the impact of civilisation
better than any other branches of their
race. New diseases decimated them at
first, but the Navajos acquired immunity.
They have remained proud, independent
and unwilling to work for wages, but
they have made a striking success of run-
ning flocks of sheep. There is good
demand for the gaily-colored woollen
blankets handwoven by their women.
Loyalty to their country is very
marked. During World War II their
young men volunteered for active service
and proved to be brave, resourceful sol-
diers. A novel use was found for well-
educated Navajos. The U.S. armed forces
wanted a code which neither the Germans
nor the Japanese could crack, and the
Navajo language provided it.
Service messages were written in Eng-
lish and handed to a Navajo Indian. He
sent it off by radio-telephone in his lan-
guage. At the other end another Navajo
took it down in English. It was foolproof,
and the Germans and Japanese have since
admitted that it had them baffled. Even
Americans who had learnt the difficult
Navajo tongue found that it sounded like
a meaningless gabble when heard on the
radio.
Now medical science has abolished the
high infant-mortality which used to limit
the growlh of the Navajo population, and
the U.S. Government cannot find addi-
tional land on which to settle the ever-
increasing numbers of these Indians.
In the north-west of W.A. we have a
vast area of semi-desert country from
which the aboriginal population has now
practically vanished. If bores were sunk
to provide additional water, this country
could carry a lot of sheep, but unless we
do something very unorthodox the area,
will remain empty. It cannot attract any
people of European stock. In fact, the
Navajos seem to be the only people on
earth who would be quite at home in
such country and climate.
The United States Bureau of Indian
Affairs might be interested in a plan to
to settle some Navajo families there as an
experiment. No doubt dollars would be
available for the establishment of water-
supplies and to provide well-bred sheep
to start the flocks.
If the test were successful, additional
groups could be brought here. If it
failed —which is unlikely—the Indians
could be repatriated.
Such a scheme seems to be the only
hope for populating one of our largest
empty corners with a virile, industrious
people.— Archaen (S.A.).
Hire-purchase
The statement (B. l/8/’56) that returns
in the h.-p. business gross 47 per cent, is
staggering, but it may well be true in some
cases. Certainly the interest charged is
high enough to warrant legislative action.
The proposal that the Government
acquire the h.-p. business at market-rates,
however, is not a satisfactory solution.
First, the market-rates of shares in the
companies reflect the high interest-
charges, and if a Government authority
is to win profits big enough to be of
any help to industry it must continue to
charge these high rates. Second, it is
wrong in principle for the Government to
enter this business.
But the law should not assist the
usurers. It should provide that interest-
rates in any h.-p. contract be limited to a
fixed level —say, bank-rate plus 1 per
cent, a year on monthly balances. While
the law cannot protect the purchaser
entirely from his folly, it should be pos-
sible to introduce safeguards which would
curb excessive rates.
Hire-purchase companies would then
have to compete on more even terms
with other business interests and with
public works for capital investments. —
M. W.S. (W.A.).
Lord Hailsham
In quoting the very lucid exposition
of the Suez crisis contributed to “The
Times” by Lord Hailsham, The Bulletin
(22/8/’56), by describing him as “former
Chief Justice of England,” gives credit
to father instead of son.
The first Viscount Hailsham, who was
Lord Chancellor, died a few years ago
and was succeeded by Quinton Hogg, a
very promising Conversative M.P. and
author of The Case for Conservatism
and other political works.
Like many sons of famous men Quinton
Hogg anticipated that, in the House of
Lords, he might merely be an echo of
his father. He tried, without success, to
avoid succeeding to the peerage so as
to continue his career in the House of
Commons. Always inclined to call a
spade a spade, he is apparently not a
member of the Eden Government,
although he had a fine war-service record
and was Under-secretary for Air in
1945. —C. C. M. Usher (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 401
Across
I— Santa wine is back with the artist
who produces 9-across before I
have a horror of cramped spaces.
(14)
8— Is brown beef in Constantinople?
(8)
9 Sir Ho is capital for some Aus-
tralians. (6)
II — Elects a disorderly opera by
Gluck. (7)
12 — East after the keynote quadruped.
(3)
13 — Goblin artist who produces 9-
across? (3)
14 — Choral’s the wrong arrangement
for a student. (7)
15 — Land in the car smash. (6)
19— Disease falls, but why the doctor
of psychology is curtailed. (6)
20— Steal into the head jurisdiction.
(7)
23 Town in Gippsland. (3)
24 — A divinity backing St. Bernard?
(3).
25 — Tying up two noises heard by
Gray, according to the first verse
of his Elegy. (7)
26 Who anaesthetises the figure? (6)
28—There is yet time (as we know
it on the eastern seaboard), but
it is most inert. (8)
29 —Change sees no trousers features
which turn up, (9, 5)
Down
1 — Peruvian capital is after one
figure but ahead of its square-
root culmination. (6)
2 Wind insect freezing one hundred
and fifty one. (11)
3 Shingles the cultivator’s sneakers.
(9)
4 A true mop device used to
indicate a course. (5, 3)
5 The best oxygen? One ounce
is available. (5)
6 Gilbert's feminist prosecutor in
U.S.A. is after me in another
case. (3)
7 Pink was in the van, but it has
stalled. (7)
10 —Commotion at the same time as
8.C.0. (3)
13 —Cure your steamer condition
which keeps the doctor away. (11)
16 — Spirit provided by Lindsey, the
elfish American sailor? (9)
17 — Emmet is named after the
ancestor which is immovable? (7)
18— Monkeys who run church affairs?
(8)
21 — He is careless with the horse
urge. (3)
22 A portal’s stones. (6)
24—What is essential when listening
to Dr. Bleak. (5)
27 —Father East’s wife is West! (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 400


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.,
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
m.v. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a PAID A»VJE*TTSBM®?f*
Vtoapan* monthly fey MOFFAT-VTRTTTS LIMIT**
September
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1956
“COSTS-OF-PRODUCTION MUST COME DOWN!”
LEADING GRAZIER WARNS ON EXPORT TRADE
The Federal President of the United Graziers Association, Mr. W. A. Gunn, who
recently returned to Australia from abroad, warned Australia that primary
production methods must be improved in order to reduce costs of production.
Mr. Gunn was a member of a dele-
gation representing the Australian
Meat Board, which visited the
United Kingdom for talks on the
new 15-year Meat Export Agree-
ment between Australia and Britain.
Rapid increases in our costs struc-
ture would imperil our export
market. He said that we must give
full attention to this problem.
Although wool prices have recently
tended to rise, many observers fear
that this increased demand due to
“stock-piling” brought on by the
Suez Canal crisis will be only
temporary. In addition wool price
rises tend to encourage competition
from the synthetic fibre manufac-
turers whose production continues
to increase despite some reduction
in demand.
ANOTHER £l3 MILLION SLUG FOR GRAZIERS?
Almost os regularly as taxation, every year brings another "blow-fly season" that is a
costly debit against graziers" profits!
Now that modem scientific methods
are available to effectively combat
the blow-fly strike menace, graziers
are grasping the opportunity to beat
fly-strike damage, thus avoiding
sheep losses and increasing wool
yield.
The timely warning of a leading
Australian grazier on production
costs underlines the need for every
grazier to check his equipment
and investigate the new range of
Jetting and Crutching plant now
offered by Moffat-Virtue Ltd.
THE NEW "SECRET WEAPONS" TO STOP
FLY-STRIKE DEAD!
Government and private research and the experience of leading graziers has
proved that thorough crutching plus year-round jetting is the answer to the
fly-strike problem.
The latest powerful chemical insecti-
cides give lasting immunity when
properly applied. Therefore, having
the right equipment to carry out
this protective job IS VITAL TO
EVERY GRAZING PROPERTY.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have a range of
“war-waging” equipment that pro-
vide the grazier with the means of
economically beating fly-strike. This
equipment has been PROVED BY
PERFORMANCE... .It is reliable,
and it is designed for MAXIMUM
EFFICIENCY consistent with
LOW RUNNING COSTS, and
adaptability to suit the needs of
both small and large grazing
properties.
THE M V TWO-STAND SEMI-
PORTABLE SHEARING PLANT'
Completely self-contained, portable—a
MUST to large or small property-
owners. Rugged ball-bearing overhead shaft
with friction wheel drive, full floating downtubes,
the new “TRIMMER” Handpiece, with the reliable,
easy-starting V 3 M-V Petrol Engine, complete with
full-sized Grinder.
The Moffat-Virtue team for Jetting
and Crutching is a secure investment
that automatically guarantees extra
dividends and therefore costs the
grazier nothing, while giving him
another means of increasing effici-
ency and helping himself (and Aus-
tralia!) to achieve a greater degree
of financial security for the future.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
PORTABII
ROLLER-SPRAY
JETTING PLANT
The small highly portable jetter with
“large plant” performance. Ideal all-
purpose spraying and jetting unit.
Powered by “Mark 10” 1.3 h.p. Air-
Cooled Villiers Engine. Pressures to
2501 b. Non-corrosive parts through-
out.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
'SHEARLINE'
PORTABU
CRUTCHING PLANT
For “on-the-spot” shearing or crutch-
ing. Has all the necessary features
for full-speed shearing anywhere on
your property ... 1 or 2 stand plants
available. Powered by Villiers Air-
cooled engine. Equipped with Full
Floating Transmission Downtube and
new “Trimmer” Mark 5 handpiece.
THE MOFFAT-VIRTUE "SENIOR"
JETTING PLANT . . .
Forty-four gallon capacity High-
Pressure, Low-Volume letter, with
two high-pressure jetting guns, two
30ft. pressure hoses. 2501 b. max.
pressure. Vee-belt drive from M.V.
“V 3” Hopper Cooled Petrol Engine
adaptable for fire-fighting, spraying,
etc.
MOFFAT - VIRTUE "PEST ARRESTOR”
Self-Contained Universal Spray Pump and
Vessel, designed to do four specific things for
the Sheep Man:
(1) To drench sheep with measured dose;
(2) To dress flyblown sheep;
(3) To dress cuts during lamb marking;
(4) To dress cuts during shearing.
Graziers cannot speak too highly of its useful-
ness and necessity on a property.
Get further particulars from any of the State
Distributors listed at the foot of this page-
