

n
m
nm
n
mn
m
Sfj? of
litslit's fou tfyr iHoiit Ifearfg
dmttmjs
The Bulletin
LOW’S LIFE-STORY PAGE 22
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4010
Wednesday, December 19, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 328: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
NATIONAL FOLK MUSEUM OF WALES, ST. FAGAN’S CASTLE
IN the beautiful Vale of Glamorgan, three miles from Cardiff, is St. Fagan's
castle, which houses the National Folk Museum of Wales.
The castle, which is really a 16th-century mansion built within the shell
of a medieval castle, now forms the nucleus of the Museum. The Long
Gallery, hall, parlor and bedrooms are decorated in 17th- and 18th-century
styles, and all the apartments are furnished with period furniture and
ornaments from various Welsh houses.
The collection is large and varied, including botanical, art, zoological and
archaeological subjects mainly of Welsh interest, including Welsh harps, old
costumes and casts of Welsh Celtic crosses. Flere, too, can be seen a curious
dog-driven churn, domestic and farming utensils —almost everything, in fact,
from a sedan chair to a triple-harp. In the coach-house four old coaches are
on view.
In the grounds of the castle stands a w'oollen-goods factory, which was
built about 1760 and recently transplanted from Brecknock. It is still in good
working condition and the resident textile worker makes anything from scarves
to Welsh blankets, which may be purchased by visitors. Nbarby is a timber-
framed barn of unusual construction, brought from Flintshire, and a farm-
house from Montgomeryshire. Two “longhouses,” primitive farmhouses, which
contain dwelling and cow-house under a single roof, have recently been
purchased for re-erection in the grounds of the Castle.
When completed, the Museum will have workshops where Welsh crafts-
men can be seen at work —a weaver, smith, potter, saddler, stonemason and
others, in addition to the textile worker, the basket-maker and wood-turner
who are already established there. The National Folk Museum of Wales
will soon be one of the finest institutions of its kind in existence. St. Fagan’s
is also celebrated for its Elizabethan herb garden, mulberry garden and
fishponds.


WRITE STORIES, TALKS,
ARTICLES. PARS!
you have the urge to write and the
express your thoughts on paper.
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stones, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“1 had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
114
Mila
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 140 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St, Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
««,» CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON, M
f To STOTT’S : Please send me, without any obli- j
l gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of 1
° your Literary Courses.
j MY NAME J
& ADDRESS
i j
| (S B. 2456) |
CURZON (AUST.) PUBLISHING
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
37-41 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
(Telephone: M 81364)
OFFICIALLY APPOINTED SUBSCRIP-
TION AGENTS FOR
TIME (New) £5 12/-
TIME (Renewal) £4 10/-
LIFE £2 15/-
FORTUNE £6 16/-
ARCHITECTURAL FORUM £4 10/-
Subscriptions arranged for any magazine or
journal from any country in the world.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boor,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sß ®'
cessful.
The Red Page
"A HAUNTED LAND"
When Randolph Stow’s poems first
began to appear in “The Bulletin” a
year or so ago it would have been
easy to believe, from their maturity
and polish, that they might be the
work of, say, a university lecturer of
about thirty-five. Similarly, his first
novel, A Haunted Land (Macdonald),
might be taken for the work of some
long-practised writer, English rather
than Australian, following the vogue
for morbid psychology.
But “A Haunted Land” is much
more interesting than that. Randolph
Stow is twenty-one. The morbidity
of his novel —offset by the clear
Westralian light and the fine drawing
of the characters —Is youth’s natural
interest in the tragic and the macabre.
And, instead of being merely an essay
in a contemporary fashion, it is a
young poet’s attempt to write some-
thing in the vein of “Wuthering
Heights.”
Towards the end of the novel—if
the aim is not already apparent through
the quotations from “Lear” and the
bizarre scenes when Anne Maguire
gives herself to a blackfellow, who is
promptly shot and buried on the
property by her brother Patrick —Mr.
Stow gives the reader a clue to the
examples he has followed. “You don’t
sound very interested,’’ says Adelaide
Maguire, the quiet one, to the con-
sumptive Anne when she has been
trying to tell her about their brother
Martin’s marriage. “I’m not,” says
Anne:—
“I’m only interested in weddings
like Lorna Doone’s and Jane Eyre’s.
I was half hoping that Father would
jump up and shoot at Jessie, or else
disclose that she was already married
to Tommy Cross.”
Lorna Doone; Jane Eyre ... It is
to be a novel, then, of wild people in
wild country; lawless, violent, free to
develop their personalities to the
extreme and the extravagant. It is ,to
be a dark and brooding, obsessive and
oppressive kind of novel, dominated by
one powerful character . . .
And that is the kind of novel, with
reservations, it is. The dark man is
Andrew Maguire, father of the Maguire
clan in their old homestead called
Malin.
If nobody is shot at Martin’s wedding,
it is not long until Jessie is confessing
to Adelaide that Martin is a hopeless
drunkard, hopelessly brooding on the
prospect of insanity with which
Andrew has threatened him. It is not
long until Patrick, the most pleasant of
the brothers, has his love-affair with
the young widow destroyed by
Andrew’s diabolical machinations; not
long until Tommy Cross, the idiot son
of a servant, kept prisoner by Andrew
in a kind of fowlhouse, breaks loose
and tries to kill Patrick—whereupon
Andrew, almost as much by design as
by accident, shoots them both; not
long until, in a freak of fury at the
idiot’s funeral, Andrew drives a stake
through his heart; and not long until,
in the final ruin of the family, after
Anne has quit the farm probably to
die of consumption, as Martin and
another brother will probably die of
drink, only the faithful Adelaide is
left to comfort her father, out of the
depths of her own destruction, with the
blind assurance “It’s not your fault!
It’s not your fault!”
Always intriguing though the story
is, Mr. Stow falls short in the portrait
of Andrew Maguire. Andrew is not
convincing in his motives —his secret
fear of life; his clutching at and
destroying his children because they
remind him of his dead wife —and he
fails to dominate the novel. He is just
not big enough —and it is a mistake for
Mr. Stow to try to make him bigger
than he is by suggesting that he is
insane. Insanity is not interesting in
fiction because it does not illustrate
the normal potentialities of mankind
. . . which the great novels do. Even
King Lear is never so mad as not to be
recognisable as, carried to his extreme,
any ordinary old man much wronged
by time and his daughters. (In a
different way, incidentally, the intro-
duction of the hairy Tommy Cross is
also a mistake: such things have
happened in life, but, in this essentially
normal setting, he is just a bit too
much.)
But, then, even if he does not quite
get there, it is good to see a young
writer attempting to climb so high.
And, on a level a little below the peaks,
Mr. Stow , really does astonishingly
well. If Andrew is taken beyond his
limits he remains—wry, sour, hard,
witty, malicious —a remarkably firm
and strong piece of characterisation.
Patrick, the girls and some neighbors
and relatives are clearly and attractively
portrayed. The action is everywhere
curious, unusual, compelling.
The book is rare among Australian
novels because it is about people rather
than places: the setting, though finely
painted-in, does not obtrude. It is rare
among poets’ novels, so often essentially
an exercise in prose-style, because the
writing is not allowed to smother the
.action. It is sensitive, subtle, well-
constructed . . . altogether a most
striking and promising piece of work.
Station Novel
Set in her familiar beautiful territory
of the upper Murray and the Alps,
Elyne Mitchell’s Black Cockatoos
Mean Snow (Hodder and Stoughton)
is like a modem version of the Brent
of Bin Bin novels: matings, mismatings,
births, deaths and family-life in general
among the graziers.
Mrs. Mitchell has not altogether
been able to avoid the temptation of
writing description for description’s
sake. There are a good many
swimming-parties, country race-meet-
ings, cattle-musters and so on which,
though they are pleasant pieces of
documentary writing, really do not
serve to advance the movement of her
story, except perhaps in a scrap of
conversation at the end or a glimpse
of her wicked heroine Leonie in a
bathing-costume.
Nor, again, has she fully developed
the potentialities of her characters. It
is obvious that Leonie, who keeps
running away from her husband to
cocktail-parties in Sydney and Mel-
bourne (and has to be kidnapped, still
in her pyjamas, by her strong-man
husband), is headed for infidelity. But
the people are all rather too nice for
anything like that to happen in the
family; and about the worst thing
Leonie does —really letting down the
side this time—is surreptitiously to pay
her cook and nursemaid £1 a week
above the award wage. She also
neglects her child.
It boils down, in the end, to an essay
on the domestic virtues; in which,
especially in the sentimental conclud-
ing pages, it is obvious that Mrs.
Mitchell has allowed moral values to
obtrude on artistic values. The
important thing in a novel is not that
the nation at large should be told to
have children but that the people in its
pages should be interesting and the
story dramatic.
But, though she could have been
further developed, and seen from a
different angle, Leonie does remain
interesting; and, when she gets lost in
the snow—running away again to meet
her brother—the story does come
through to a dramatic crisis. This is
an occasion when dramatic and docu-
mentary interest coalesce. The peaks,
the blizzard, the blind tangle of the
snowgums are an integral part of the
story; and Mrs. Mitchell, who has
always been at her best in the snow-
country, makes a most powerful scene
of it.
Love on Sydney Harbor
In A Voyage in Love (Ure Smith),
Mungo MacCallum tells the story of
the childhood, adolescence and love
of a businessman’s daughter who lives
in a house that has a beach-frontage to
Sydney Harbor.
The novelette is sustained at some-
thing of the quality of a dream. The
girl encounters the boy when they are
both children, swimming from the
beach, and they do not meet again
until they are both students at the
University of Sydney. He is poor, she
is well-to-do; they swim together; he
takes her out on his motor-bike; they
become lovers. Then she is weakened
by tuberculosis or something, and goes
off to the mountains, where the air is
better,- and the book ends with the
young man coming up to see her on
his motor-bike bringing the feeling that
all will be well now.
It is a simple little story, and if, as
a dream, it has something of the unreal
about it, one must remember that Mr.
MacCallum is dealing with a very
delicate young woman, and is at the
disadvantage of being a man telling a
story from a delicate girl’s point of
view. It’s always a .gamble: Richard-
son did it, Defoe did it, Flaubert did
it—with very different and differing
kinds of women. But as a woman’s-
eye-view of Sydney “A Voyage in
Love” is very much like taking a
miniaturist to do sketches at a circus;
it is a town that can be seen adequately
only through the eyes of a girl of
St. Trinian’s.
Indian Ocean Travels
One of the strange facts about every-
body’s travels is that, merely because
you are on your travels, you take an
interest in all sorts of things you would
never bother about at home. For
instance, nobody, unless with a bizarre
passion for such mechanisms, would
dream of going to his local post-office
to find out how the telegram-service
works; yet if you are on -Cocos Island,
as Coralie and Leslie Rees are in
Westward from Cocos (Australasian;
Harrap), and the cable-station is the
thing to go and see, then, of course,
you go and see it . . . and describe it.
And on Mauritius, though you may
not have been more than mildly
interested in Flinders in Australia, you
feel obliged to track down the most
minute relics of the navigator’s
imprisonment there; and discover, as
Mr. and Mrs. Rees did, a monument
and some letters.
This is what might be described as
enthusiastic—as opposed to inspired—
tourism. Since all travellers and all
travel-readers are alike, this reviewer
took a proper interest in the cable-
station, and the history of the Emden,
and the confused state of politics in
South Africa (which Mr. Rees
summarises very ably and impartially),
and all that; but really got much more
pleasure out of the inspired parts, when
the Reeses dropped on to some really
outstanding story or were personally
involved in exciting incidents. It is
very difficult not to be inspired, for
example, when you are being chased by
a rhinoceros.
Thus there are the Japanese
blowing-up Cocos in the last war; and
Mr. Rees going spear-fishing and
getting stung by a bluebottle and
followed home by sharks —as nice a
piece of writing as there is in the whole
book. There is a surprising day’s stag-
shooting in Mauritius. There are the
lions, rhinoceroses and other improba-
bilities roaming round the national
parks in South Africa. And there is
Mr. Rees’s vivid, firsthand picture of
a native slum in Johannesburg:—
A Dantesque blackness folded us
round, thickly, impenetrably, as the
car stumbled along at two miles an
hour —relying on its headlights to
give a passage, while sombre, ill-
clad figures on foot loomed up in
the yellow beam, joyless, expression-
less, slump-shouldered, moving down
the slope towards small, broken-
down slum dwellings set back from
the road and ill-lit by one kerosene-
lamp apiece.
The mixture of enthusiasm and
inspiration makes, on the whole, a very
pleasant, informal, informative kind
of book in which you learn exactly
what it is like to visit these places—all
the way to Zanzibar —which are off
the tourist-track for most Australians
and yet, as the Reeses have shown,
readily accessible: what you can see
and do, how the people live there,
what are their industries and their arts
(there is even a famous poet in
Mauritius), what are their political
problems and, always thoughtfully
discussed, what the working-out of
these may mean to Australia.
Australian Animals
While it is in no way comparable to
Ellis Troughton’s “Furred Animals of
Australia” as a comprehensive
reference-book, Lyla Stevens’s Animals
of Australia (Whitcombe and Tombs)
is a pleasant introduction to the subject
which would make an excellent gift-
book for children.
There is a brief commentary on
some 28 animals, revealing, along with
the standard information, that the
Tasmanian Devil can be amiable in
captivity, that the yellow-bellied water-
rat harnesses the sun to open mussels
for him, that the marsupial mole lives
at such high tension in his dark world
that his life-span is only 15 months, and
that the house-building rat of the
Nullarbor Plain makes himself a shelter
of sticks 3ft. in height and 4ft. in
diameter in which several families,
each with its own grass nest, live safe
from winds and dingoes.
But the chief appeal of the book is
in the large color-plates, of which there
is a most liberal supply, one to each
animal; charming little pictures
showing the creatures in their
appropriate habitat of tree, stream or
rock.
What Sells Books
Recently our London principals,
Harraps, took a world-wide survey
into the habits of book-buyers, based
on replies from 3500 book-buyers.
The six leading factors influencing
choice were: 1. Reviews (34.06 per
cent.); 2. Personal recommendation
(24.50 per cent.); 3. Literature from
publisher (24.30 per cent.); 4. Adver-
tisements (18.05 per cent.); 5. Litera-
ture from bookseller (17.90 per cent.);
6. Browsing in bookshops (3.20 per
cent.).
Next in importance were radio and
TV and public libraries.
The six leading publications which
by reviews or advertisements had
influenced the selection of books were:
1. “Observer” (26.00 per cent.); 2.
“Sunday Times” (22.05 per cent.); 3.
“Daily Telegraph” (16.09 per cent.);
4. “Times Literary Supplement” (10.60
per cent.); 5. “The Times” (6.90 per
cent.); 6. “New Statesman” (4.44 per
cent.).
These were followed by “Manchester
Guardian,” “Listener,” “Spectator,”
“Bookseller,” “Times Educational
Supplement,” “Books and Bookmen”
and “News Chronicle,” in that order.
E. J. Morrison.
(Australasian Publishing Co.)


BUY YOUB XMAS HAMS NOW
n
liliS
BOX 2712 G.P.O.
i
■
m
m
Wa
m
m
SB
wJHM
jet
S ''
mk
w
J!
> i
/X A
ft.
mm
n
iSi.
m
m
JL
m
w.
m
Spend Christmas this a-ivay ...
buy the family a
MARQUEE
AUTO TENT
Take the holiday you’ve always wanted . . . carefree, informal, inexpensive
. . . in a SPECIAL MARQUEE AUTO TENT,, designed and made by skilled
craftsmen in our own workroom. Roof of genuine N quality Scotch Birkmyre,
Dehrsutu walls, centre pole grumet, reinforced outside with leather
cap, wall pole grumets are also leather reinforced. Openings and
bottom of walls reinforced with superior quality webbing, double
sewn waterproof seams, two-piece opening in front. Complete with 2 poles,
pegs, ropes and slides. Size 12 x 12, £39/19/-; 15 x 15, £59/19/-
(Measurements less seams and hems). On Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
For young cowboys
“Prairie” play tent
The ideal gift for the outdoor
child. The “Prairie” is made
of the stout tent calico, stencilled
in vigorous Cowboy and Indian
designs. Size sft. x 4ft. x
4ft. 6in. Walls 2ft. high.
(Measurements less seams and '
hems). Complete with 2 poles, 52/6
m
nm
n
Ni
<2?
<2?
■z
&
a>
&
&
'/M"'
&
&
0
G
O
0
G
ro
o
&
&.
w
Buy Now
Special Cured
Seeded
MAMS
Only one week to Xmas, so buy your hams now . . .
Choose your Xmas ham from Pineapple or Norco
brands. Sizes 12-151 b. Tinned hams, all Choose
from Allowrie, Hutton’s, Darling Downs. Grocery Depart-
ment, Ground Floor.
t
POULTRY: You get the best quality poultry by ordering
from Anthony Hordern’s. Choose choice ducks, drakes
and roaster chickens. A small deposit is required on all
poultry orders. Grocery Department, Ground Floor,
Goulburn Street.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 19, 1956
Vol. 77—No. 4010
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington .
GETTING WEATHERWISE
MIDWAY through 1957 will begin what scientists
are pleased to call an International Geophysical
Year. The term has a formidable sound about it,
but nowadays in matters of this kind that seems
unavoidable.
Years ago those responsible for such ventures
showed a much better appreciation of the fitness
of things, Jwo forerunners of the I.G.Y. were
staged in 1882-83 and 1932-33, and on both
occasions the enterprise was labelled a Polar Year.
There’s something grand and inspiring about a
Polar Year. The term hints at new horizons to be
scanned, dangers to be faced, hardships to be
endured, goals to be won. No such picture is
conjured up by the sound of the words International
Geophysical Year.
In the 1880’s the top and bottom ends of the
world were still unconquered, and science and the
spirit of adventure combined to urge men on
towards the Poles. No doubt a similar spirit will
animate many of the scientists chosen for the
1957-58 undertaking, but there is nothing in its
title to give the public a hint of that.
For the origins of the I.G.Y. it is necessary
to go back to 1875, when Lieut. Weyprecht, an
Austrian naval officer who had been a joint leader
of an expedition which discovered Franz Josef
Land a few years earlier, proposed as a means of
furthering polar research the establishment of a
chain of stations fringing the Arctic and Antarctic
circles “to record a complete series of»synchronous
meteorological and magnetic observations.” The
suggestion was taken up, and 11 countries agreed
to provide teams of observers. As a result, a
dozen stations were operated in the North Polar
regions for 12 months from August, 1882; they
were manned by parties from Austria, Britain,
Denmark, Finland, Germany, Holland, Norway,
Russia, Sweden and the United States. In the
Antarctic a station was established by the French,
in Tierra del Fuego, and another by the Germans,
at Royal Bay, South Georgia. This was the first
time scientists from so many lands had co-operated
in a venture of such magnitude. Gratifying success
was claimed in the primary object of collecting
scientific data, and a secondary result was a
stimulation of interest in polar exploration.
Despite the success of the First Polar Year
it was half a century before the experiment was
repeated. In the meantime both poles had been
reached, and much exploration carried out at both
ends of the globe. It was during the Second Polar
Year, 1932-33, that Australia, with the support of
Britain, formally assumed sovereignty over a large
wedge-shaped slab of the Antarctic which had
been the scene of much British and Australian
exploration during the preceding century. Edge-
worth David and Douglas Mawson had gone south
with Shackleton in 1907 and had discovered the
So«th Magnetic Pole; Griffith Taylor, as a member
of Scott’s last expedition, was charged with the
special task of studying Antarctic geology and
meteorology in relation to Australian conditions.
Mawson had led an Australasian expedition in
1911-14 and a combined British, Australian and
New Zealand expedition in 1929-31.
Since 1933, and particularly since the end of
World War 11, much of the emphasis in Antarctic
activity has been on climatic factors.- Australian
scientific stations on Heard Island, Macquarie Island
and, more recently, at Mawson, on the Antarctic
mainland, have been taking continuous observa-
tions and radioing data back to Australia. This
work will now be dovetailed-in with that of other
observer - teams working under the I.G.Y.
programme.
It is thought possible that the Antarctic holds
the key to the weather not only of Australia but
of much of the earth’s surface. It is elementary
knowledge that the atmosphere picks up heat in
the tropics and discharges it in the polar regions, a
process which creates winds of varying intensity
from zephyrs to typhoons and weathers to suit or
annoy all tastes. It has been suggested that pressure-
waves surge outward from Antarctica northwards
to influence weather all over the globe. The
coming I.G.Y. may furnish sufficient information to
test this theory and to indicate how the knowledge
may be used in weather-forecasting. Australia’s
interest, therefore, is far more than academic.
The reasons 1957-58 was chosen as an 1.G.Y.,
says an External Affairs statement, are first that
it coincides with the 25th anniversary of the last
Polar Year and secondly that it coincides with a
period of maximum sunspot activity. Forty nations
will participate in the programme, which covers, in
addition to meteorology, a study of geomagnetism,
cosmic rays, auroras, the determination of latitude
and longitude, seismology, gravity and rocket- and
satellite-exploration of the upper air. The World
Meteorological Organisation plans three pole-to-
pole chains of stations along the meridians of 10
degrees east (passing through Western Europe and
Western Africa), 140 degrees east (cutting Siberia,
Japan, New Guinea and Australia) and 70 to 80
degrees west (passing through North and South
America). At many points along these lines the
work will be done by already-existing observatories,
but special expeditions will have to be sent to the
more remote parts. Some of these are already
established at their bases or are on the way there.
The Australian stations will be at Mawson
and Vestfold Hills in the Antarctic territory and
on Macquarie Island. Twenty-three men will be
stationed at Mawson; five at Vestfold and 15 at
Macquarie. They will study most of the branches
of science mentioned earlier, also glaciology and
ionospheric physics. In addition to Australia, nine
other countries will man stations in the Antarctic.
If it can be said that the basic task of those
participating in the I.G.Y. programme is to find out
where the weather comes from, then the chief topic
discussed by the world meteorologists who met in
Brisbane last week was where it goes to and what
happens when it gets there. Sixty weather&men
from 10 countries attended the Tropical Cyclone
Symposium organised by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Meteorology, and papers were read on
the habits of cyclones, the paths of cyclones, the
behavior and destructiveness of cyclones, the fore-
casting of cyclones and the possibility of persuading
cyclones to go somewhere else.
Australians have often been accused of being
far too concerned about the weather, but at least
for the next 12 months or so addicts of the nice-
weather - we’ve - been - having-lately-think-it’s-going-
to-rain? school of conversation will be able to keep
up their sparkling flow of chatter confident in the
knowledge that they have the scientists on their side.
The Forgotten Pacific
IT is a queer paradox that while countries like
Cuba and Haiti —at present almost immobilised by
the disinclination of its ragged colored population
to work—are speaking for the U.N. world under
the prompting of the United States, little attention
is being given to the important developments taking
place in the North Pacific.
Red China is going through a reconditioning
phase of which few people are brave enough to
prophesy the outcome. It is still Communist, still
aggressive, still governed in policy under its very
smooth skin by Mao’s dictum that “power grows
out of the barrel of a gun,” and still apparently
working in the closest accord with Russia. Also,
it is suffering some of the same sort of stings which
are threatening Russia’s stability, though not to
the same extent. So far rebellion seems to have
been confined to Tibet, whence come reports ©f
fighting, with a little dissidence in satellite northern
Vietnam.
At the same time, it is becoming clearer that
the Chinese Communism is not quite the same
thing as Russian Communism: that it is a doctrine
of expediency rather than of belief, and that if
something else comes along which the Chinese
leaders feel will serve them better than Communism,
there will be no fumbling in their reactions. Their
policy is China for the Chinese, and if and when
their present alliances do not suit them, Russia can
go hang. This whether they desert Communism or
become another Yugoslavia.
With a more intelligent policy the United
States might have prevented China falling into the
hands of the Communists at all. But Rooseveltian
amateurism threw Manchuria and its huge cache
of arms to the Russians, though it must have been
obvious what Russia was likely to do with these
accessions.
The effect of U.S. policy in the North Pacific
is still being felt. It keeps Red China isolated,
where more experienced countries would give the
de factp Government recognition in order to have
contact and influence in Peking. It keeps the
moribund Chiang Kai-shek armies in existence and
ensures the recognition of that curious and
outmoded old warlord and his excrescent army of
Formosa as a “great Power,” when he would be
better out of the way and the world would be
healthier for a recognition of Far Eastern realities.
It maintains the theory that Japan must be
protected, but should not be allowed to develop any
strength of its own, as it inevitably must, especially
in the new era which must follow its acceptance as
the 80th member of the United Nations within the
past week.
In Japan, the results of the ■ American
occupation have been curious.
Whether the abrogation of the Anglo- Japanese
alliance following the Washington Conference was
right or wrong, its effects on world politics were
devastating. And however well-intentioned the
passionate Western support for the Chinese
Communist Eighth Route Army and other strange
manifestations of resistance to Japanese mainland
policy may have been, it created a bitter enmity
in the Japanese which had not been there
before. It also built up the view, bom of the
Russo-Japanese war, that Japan could live in the
new Westernised world only by destroying those
of its critics who feared its ambitions; also that it
was capable of destroying them.
When the American occupation following
World War II ended, in the middle of the Korean
war, the Washington theory appeared to be that
the Japanese were finished as a great Power.
But the Japanese have continued to be
Japanese. They have been happy to accept
American protection, because that has relieved
them at a crucial period of a large portion of their
defence costs. They have been happy, also, to
accept American capital with docility because
linked with it is inevitably American know-how.
They have been as polite in their acknowledgments
for the new recipes for virtue which have been
deeded to them as a small boy of athletic tendencies
might be expected to be if presented with a large
Bible. But everything they have done in these
matters has been absentminded, because their
chief preoccupation has been the carrying-on of
their age-old struggle for existence and survival in
their own domestic field in their own way.
Work, hard work, continuous work, breeding
of strong men and women with ankles like tree-
trunks has proceeded throughout the post-war
period with ant-like persistence. The results of this
silent labor by the most united race in the world,
on whose surface the politicians are as froth, is
only now becoming clear.
Though one of the least-armed Powers in the
world, Japan has in the short half-dozen years
since the Occupation gone back to the status of one
of the great commercial nations, one for whose
trade the whole world is competing, for whose
foreign-exchange business the great banks on this
side of the world are scrimmaging and jostling
with each other. It is a country whose technical
ability, training and dynamic, used amidst
dangerous inflation, is very fast throwing it into a
position among the world leaders.
The recent presence of the Japanese Minister
for Economic Planning, Tatsunosuke Takasaki, and
several high-ranking planning and Foreign Office
officials in Australia and New Zealand, together
with the nature of their programme, calls attention
to the fact that Japan has come back into the world
of trade and competition.
Japan, in fact, has become a massive reality
for Australia once more, a country which is a
substantial customer, but with whom it is difficult to
deal because of the unbalance between the economic
and industrial methods of the two countries.
In Japan, work is the be-all-and-end-all of
progress; Australia, with not much more than a
tenth of the Japanese population spread over
portions of a continental area about 22 times as
large as Japan, has the 40-hour-week and other
such luxuries hanging as a heavy economic
handicap round its neck. But the two must live
together in the Pacific, and despite the natural
asperities which remain after the war they have a
common interest. Friendly, Japan can be a strong
bulwark against the outward pressures of Asiatic
Communism and a brake on Chinese policies and
Russian influence and make a useful contribution
in our export markets.
Its before the war was about 78
million; today it holds over 89 million, despite
legalised birth-control and war losses. The extent
to which work is distributed among its population
is shown by the fact that it has a labor force of
nearly 44 million over 14 years of age, and only
a million-odd registered as unemployed, a large
proportion of these in process of transfer between
jobs and occupations. The total working-days lost
in strikes is negligible against the background of
employment. The average working-hours per
employee per month are 201.
Unlike other Asiatic countries, Japan has
up-to-date industrial equipment and thinks in
standards of comfort far above that of other Asiatic
countries.
The Japanese have roughly 8,000,000 hands
employed in the manufacturing industries alone,
and about 2,000,000 of these in textiles. These
figures indicate both the weight of competitive
effort and the nature of the opportunities in the
raw-material market with which Australia stands.
faced.
They seem to point the need for Australian
Governments to concern themselves more with
achieving accord and friendly relationships with
Japan. This may be difficult, in view of what has
happened over the past 20 years. But it is well
worth a considerable effort.


GALAHS IN THE CROP


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canberra and Hungary
Only one cheerful gleam has been visible
to Australians watching the Hungarian
Olympic athletes in the agonising decision
they have had to make about returning
home, and that is the smart work of the
Federal Government.
The announcement by the Common-
wealth that the quota of Hungarian
refugees would be increased from 3000 to
5000 and the efficient work of the Com-
monwealth Security men in safeguarding
those, still in the Olympic Village, who
could not quite make up their minds were
welcome signs of timing and of an aware-
ness of events from Canberra.
The decision to increase the quota
from Hungary was, of course, made
chiefly to assist in rescuing the victims of
the latest Russian attack on the country,
but its very prompt announcement
was heartening news for those contem-
plating changing their country of abode.
Australia was, possibly, fastest of all
countries in its offer of practical help,
although the United States was at least
a close second.
How many of the 46 (of 176) who
remained in Melbourne may drift back
to countries bordering Hungary is
problematical and may be decided by
events in Europe; but their decision to
remain, plus the Government’s human act,
will not have lowered our prestige beyond
Australian shores.
Germany Resurgent
The re-emergence of the European
Powers which were crushed into the dust
in World War II is having a notable effect
on world politics and changing the
centres of influence.
Washington and Moscow may be hubs
of the world, but both the United States
and the U.S.S.R., though bouncing
boys full of muscle and confidence, suffer
from the inexperience of youth.
Within the next decade international
politics may turn on the development of
France and Germany on the Continent
and on the white British Commonwealth
outside it —if only the white British Com-
monwealth will have the sense to come
together and stick together.
Germany in particular is a study
in recovery. Its apparent demise was
managed by the United States and
Russia with little regard for other
opinion. Its territory was split, its capital
cut into zones, its Government and
national unity obliterated. Dollars were
poured into its Western zone, which was
robbed of its main source of agricultural
supply by the severance of East Germany,
in which the Russian occupation pursued
a policy opposite to that adopted by
the Western Powers.
Instead of giving the conquered people
dollars and assistance and good moral
advice and exhortations to gratitude, the
Soviet exported all their highly technical
manufacturing plant to Russia along with
a suitable quota of skilled slave-labor.
Then it clamped down hard on the popu-
lation in general and crushed any
resistance as it became apparent, in the
process squeezing about 3,000,000
refugees into the West German zone.
West Germany is now the largest nation
in Western Europe, with a population of
just on 50 million. The East German
population has declined under Soviet
rule, but is now about 16,500,000.
West Germany has restored its com-
bined production of coal and lignite
together to pre-war standards. Its level
of steel and rolled finished products is
about that of 1938 and steadily rising.
But it is going its own way. Last week
the United Kingdom, most patient of
occupiers, warned the Government at
Bonn that unless West Germany met its
obligations under the Nato arrangement
to pay for interim defence by British and
other troops, those troops would be with-
drawn. At present, Germany is failing
in its Nato financial and other arrange-
ments, leaving its partners to provide its
defence and diverting its own defence
contribution to develop commercial com-
petition with its associates.
Despite this, its Prime Minister has
announced that revolution seems to be
developing in East Germany, and that if
it should break out again, as it has broken
out in Hungary, the Federal Republic
could not stand aside and spe the outbreak
crushed. Apparently, behind a facade
of co-operation with the West, West
Germany is working almost solely for
reunion with the East, which would once
again make Germany the dominant Con-
tinental nation. And that would mean,
in the changed condition of the world,
a nation stronger than the United
Kingdom.
A Germany united and playing Russia
off against the West would be something
to give Mr. Dulles a bad headache.
Almost as bad a headache as a com-
bination of the United Kingdom, France
and Germany working in accord with
other European Powers to restore Europe
to a dominating world position.
Tankers for Australia
Lord Baillieu, at least one of the best-
informed Australian businessmen in
London, has been emphasising on his
present visit to Melbourne the necessity
for Britain, Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa to build up a tanker-fleet
to protect the economy of the Western
world, in peace or in war.
Baillieu, who is accustomed to taking
a realistic view of men and events, wants
the West to rest its safety not on agree-
ments or the building of a second canal,
both of which could be negatived by
hostile action, but on a tanker-fleet, and
says no question of cost or availability of
supply should be allowed to stand in the
way.
According to shipping records in Mel-
bourne, only four tankers are wholly-
owned in Australia: two by H. C. Sleigh,
one by Ampol and one by the R.A.N.
Ampol has another on order, a super-
tanker (25,000 tons) which will cost £2
million to build, but it will not be
delivered until late in 1958 or early the
next year. Many of, the tankers which
bring oil to Australia are chartered.
Stimulated no doubt by the qold wind
already blowing over the Middle East,
two British petrol companies last year
announced decisions to build big tanker-
fleets, and the P. and 0., with £35 million
in cash and investments to play wi(h,
hinted at spending £37.5 million on
tankers. The petrol cos.’ orders were:
Shell, 34 tankers (20 in Britain; 14 in
Holland); Esso Co., six tankers (two in
Britain ; four in Germany).
The need for a greater tanker-fleet for
the West has hierely been underlined by
the canal crisis. A quarter of the world’s
tanker-fleet is engaged between Persia and
Europe, and the trip rQund the Cape takes
about 26 days compared with 13 through
the canal. Lord Baillieu’s fears are
obviously well founded.
Moreover, oil has now become the
world’s most valuable seaborne cargo*.
One of every five ships on the high seas
is a tanker; and tankers carry about 11
million tons of petrol every day.
The traffic has been stimulated by the
building of refineries in countries of
national stability rather than by shipping
refined oil. Australian consumption of
petroleum products rose almost 200 per
cent, from 1939 to 1955, and increases by
six per cent, annually. The five new Aus-
tralian refineries are capable of treating
2000 million gallons annually, making a
national saving in exchange of £3O million
annually—if they, get the crude oil.
A‘substantial portion of Australian oil
imports is now from the Far East, Aus-
tralia’s Near North in particular. In the
event of war, the world shortage of tankers
would immediately be more acute than it
is, and at least the majority of the hired
tankers which now supply the bulk of
Australian requirements could be
expected to be withdrawn.
Reds and the A.E.U.
Last week the Amalgamated Engineering
Union, the second-biggest trade-union in
Australia, which has a membership of
over 75,000, passed under Communist
control with the election to its Com-
monwealth council of a majority of Com-
munist and Left-wing officials.
In. view of the open fraternisation that
has been going on between Evatt “Labor”
men and the Reds in recent months,
despite pious resolutions against “unity”
tickets, the result isn’t surprising. J. T.
Kane, secretary of • the “Democratic
Labor” party, lays the blame right on the
doorstep of Evatt “Labor,” which, he says,
forced the disbandment of the industrial-
groups which were fighting Communism
inside the union.
The charge is hard to refute, but that
doesn’t deter F. Campbell, president of
the Evatt “Labor” party, from making
the attempt. Campbell can’t see any
resurgence of Communism in the result
of the election. There were, he says,
factors in the campaign which had no
relation to Communism. Moreover, the
A.L.P. nominee for chairman of the
council, held his position by an over-
whelming majority and “with Mr. Hors-
burgh at the helm, it is not likely that the
A.E.U. is going to bow to the dictates of
the Communist party.” He also remarked
reassuringly that the result of the ballot
didn’t indicate a resurgence of Com-
munism in the Labor movement; the
Sydney City Council elections had shown
that the Communists were losing favor
with the public and trade-unionists.
Moreover, it was often a fact in union
ballots that members voted for individuals
rather than parties.
All that is so much eyewash. Hors-
burgh may be at the helm, but he doesn’t
steer the A.E.U. ship; he has no vote
except in the event of a deadlock. And
although it may be true that unionists
often vote for individuals and not for
parties, that’s how the Reds get themselves
on to union executives —it is also true
that Communists never vote as individuals
but always as Communist-party policy
directs.
'Published in "The Bulletin" 1
• ■ .
For some mysterious reason dedications
and acknowledgments are the parts of
books where publishers always go wrong.
For example, Mrs. Ethel Anderson
very handsomely dedicated her At
Parramatta stories to “The Bulletin, the
Writer’s Friend.” Her publisher forgot
to put it in.
Again, when Roland Robinson’s The
Feathered Serpent was published a week
or two ago Mr. Robinson rang up to
apologise for the fact that his publisher
had forgotten to make the customary
acknowledgment.
The customary acknowledgment has,
in fact, lately become a customary gap.
No acknowledgment to The Bulletin
appears in Alan Marshall’s How’s Andy
Going?; in both Australian Signpost
and the Oxford Book of Australian
Verse, though some of t'he contributions
are properly acknowledged, many others
which happened to have been reprinted
in other collections are acknowledged to
the publishers of those collections, not
to The Bulletin, where they first
appeared.
Contributors to The Bulletin, when
they receive their cheques, sign a receipt
stating that it is “in full payment for
property and copyright” of the poem or
story ; and at the foot of the receipt-form
is the statement that “A separate right of
republication is reserved to the author,
conditionally that the fact of original pub-
lication by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., is acknowledged in such
republication.”
It is not a serious matter. But it would
be as well, for the record, if publishers
and authors would take the trouble to
get their acknowledgments right.
Menzies and Commonwealth
“In the ACT”: What is the Prime
Minister doing to restore the unity and
prestige of the British Commonwealth on
which he places such great store, and in
which, in his view, so much can be done
for world stability and development?
The answer to that question, if one is
offered in the near future, may provide
the key both to Mr. Menzies’s own future
and to the discussion, at not too-distant
a date, of plans of far-reaching
importance.
In London recently the British Govern-
ment was reported to have rejected a
suggestion that a Commonwealth con-
ference should be convened to discuss
how the “growing deterioration” in
relations among Commonwealth members
could be arrested, and in Ottawa the
External Affairs Minister of Canada,
Lester Pearson, asserted that at one point
after the Anglo-French intervention in
Egypt the Commonwealth had been on
the verge of dissolution.
If these statements are correct, and
they probably are, they should be
considered in the light of the renewed
determination of India and Ceylon to
remain within the framework of the
Commonwealth for reasons which
apparently have little .to do with
economics of security but are mainly an
affirmation of support for a democratic
system of government.
The time has not' yet arrived for the
question to be taken any further in
public. But the reconstruction of the
British Commonwealth “on its own
foundations,” to quote one recent
example of the line of thought on the
subject, should and must be under the
most active consideration in Canberra
as well as in London and Ottawa and
New Delhi.
There will be scant support for the idea
of a separate organisation comprising
the British people within the Common-
wealth. This plan would not solve the
problems of restoring unity, and it would
destroy whatever advantages remain in
the association of the British members
with those in Asia and South Africa of
different origins and often widely-
different views. Many people have felt
during the Suez crisis that it will never
do to talk again of the possibility of a
joint voice on behalf of the Common-
wealth in world affairs, or to canvass the
prospects of securing a united view on
some of the problems vexing the world.
This opinion is surely prematurely
pessimistic.
There seems little doubt that the
Western nations will emerge from the
present crisis with a new vision of unity
and strength and a new appreciation of
the dangers of divisioh. In the same way,
the Commonwealth —all the nations of
the Commonwealth—may soon come to
believe that their freely-independent
peoples, their vast resources and their
progressive but peace-seeking outlook on
the world justify thought and effort to
achieve something which neither the
United Nations in its best endeavors nor
regional pacts seem ever likely to
provide. Here is a great opportunity for
an elder and Commonwealth statesman
of Menzies’s calibre and experience.
The Melting-pot
“Ek Dum” : The world organisations
created during the past busybodying
decade are in the melting-pot, especially
the now-shaky Russian Empire and the
United Nations, which might easily fall
together.
Hungary has presented the United
Nations with an issue which it can’t
ignore, especially after the passion which
some of its leading elements showed in
dealing with the limited and single-
purposed British-French adventure in
Egypt: a stop-gap measure, as Sir
Anthony Eden made clear, which would
be terminated the moment the U.N. was
ready to take effective action.
The British and French have been
better than their word. Nobody, except
Nasser, who appears to be running the
Egyptian end of the United Nations,
could say that U.N. has taken or shows
any signs of taking effective action in the
Suez Zone. Indeed, there was no action
for it to take, since the British-French
force had done the only thing there was
for a military force to do —to keep the
combatants apart and prevent a full-scale
Israeli-Egyptian war. Yet the British-
French withdrew on U.N.’s assurances.
Any action which is now called for is
due to Nasser’s spoilt-boy destruction of
the usefulness of the canal by sinking
ships in it. The U.N., having got the
British, the only people with the equip-
ment for the job, out, is now
being pressed to carry out its resolutions
and make a settlement of the canal and
other Middle East problems. It is quite
clear that U.N. is incapable of doing this.
All round, as far as the Suez position
is concerned, the buck has been passed
to the U.N., and while its organisation
is fumbling with it the patter of the
feet of some of the most strident of the
abusers of the British, who are tiptoeing
softly out of the arena, breaks the silence
in the East. The West has stepped up
and filled Mr. Hammarskjoeld’s arms
with another load of problems which he
won’t be allowed to avoid.
The United States chose the day on
which the Hungarian resolutions were
debated in U.N. to announce an order
suspending trials of the hydrogen-bomb,
which it is apparently leaving t© the
British and Russians to develop further.
Tito, who had been passing back
refugees who had come hopefully into
Yugoslavia the week before, seemed to
be engaged in double-talk, condemning
the Russians out of one side of his
mouth while placating them by trying an
old friend and supporter, Milovan
Djilas, formerly Vice President of the
country, for having written a newspaper
article in which he had declared that
Russia’s armed intervention in Hungary
“marks the beginning of the end of
Communism.”
Djilas was already under a suspended
sentence for having dared to criticise the
Yugoslav Government in an article in the
“New York Times” in 1955 ; so now he
goes to jail for three years.
The Asian nations, including India,
Burma, Ceylon and Indonesia and some
others, tried hard to have deleted the
clause in the 20-nations resolution before
the U.N. Assembly censuring Russia and
ordering withdrawal from Hungary. They
actually proposed that a mission should
be sent to Moscow to talk the matter
over, despite the fact that both the
Russians and the spurious Hungarian
Kadar Government showed simulated
anger that anybody should dare to
interfere with the “internal affairs” of a
country held down by an invading army
of from 15 to 20 divisions. On Mr.
Nehru’s own admission, “there is no
(i Continued on next page)


doubt that the revolution in Hungary is
widespread and a national one.” Actually
the Hungarians were able to walk out
of the Assembly of their own volition,
which shows the feebleness of the U.N.
grip on the situation.
The Government of Hungary, not long
admitted to the U.N., which the
organisation recognised, was the Nagy
Government. If U.N. had had any
sand in it it would not have allowed the
Kadar Government, which it seemed not
to recognise as the de facto Government,
to sit in the Assembly at all.
Mr. Lodge, of the United States, having
remarked that it would simplify matters
if all the other satellite Powers of Russia
walked out, the debate proceeded and
the Assembly by an overwhelming
majority of 55 votes to eight (the eight all
Communist), 16 nations having business
elsewhere for some reason, condemned
Soviet action and called on the Kremlin
to withdraw its forces immediately.
If U.N. doesn’t act, as ifwon’t, it can
be reckoned on its deathbed, unless
Russia and the United States resist its
demise.
The U.S. leaders, in the middle of the
deluge, are still vaguely dreaming their
dreams and putting forward their
umpteenth disarmament plan.
One day they issue in Washington
information about the suspension of
bomb experiments and the new disarma-
ment plan. Across the seas, at the Atlantic
Nations Conference on the same day, Mr.
Dulles is uttering a warning that the
Soviet Union might take risks in external
relations and produce war, and urges the
free world to act as a whole to maintain
the n ral pressures which he believes to
be undermining Communism in the
Soviet Union and China ; to keep up, also,
their combined military strength and
resolution.
He pays, in an eloquent speech, a high
tribute to the British and French for
recognising the principles of collective
action and promptly and unreservedly
obeying the orders of U.N. But the very
next day he was assuring the bewildered
15-nations conference that the U.S. might
be forced to follow exactly the same
course which it so passionately con-
demned when Britain and France took it
over Suez.
The U.S., in fact, “might not be able to
consult its North Atlantic partners if
urgent action was needed to defend vital
U.S. interests.” A British suggestion for
an Atlantic Parliament of Nato, fully in
line with the policy which the U.S. has
advocated in U.N., is viewed very much
askance.
It is all very ponfusinjg and unsatis-
factory. At a point at which unity in the
West was never more needed and co-
operation completely essential, the U.S.A.
appears to have determined to establish
domination over all its allies with one set
of principles for them and another for
itself, its co-operation with the rest being
dependent on general recognition of
United States supremacy and right to
independent action.
In the British Parliament there has
been some plain talking on the matter,
particularly by Lord Bruce, former Aus-
tralian Prime Minister, who declared that
Britain should talk in rough Australian
style to Washington:
I am certain if we are going to get back
on good relations the last thing we want
to do is to. stand in a white sheet and fawn
upon America.... They like plain-speaking,
and they are going to get it as far as I am
concerned.... Put this to the Americans:
“You have issued most virulent and violent
criticism of us because we have done some-
thing to protect what we believe were
vital interests of ours. Have you not done
it in the past —in Panama, in Guatemala?
Would you not do it again if you thought
your vital interests were concerned? ”
We have been criticised in every way for a
considerable time by America in regard to
our policy in the Middle East... .America
, [there] has done everything to thwart us and
make our position more difficult.... Ido
not wish to suggest that American policy
has been influenced by the oil 10bby....
or anything but the highest motives....
but their M.E. policy has been about as
inept as anything ever was. Their last
resort has been to reinflate the bullfrog
Nasser when he was hopelessly defeated
and completely discredited. We have been
the best and most loyal friend any country
could have asked for. Does America not
think she could show more understanding
of our difficulties and troubles?
This Christmas the wretched, freezing
satellite countries in Europe know
that there can be no help for them
from the West short of a world war and
that the United Nations, which is sup-
posed to be the custodian of the world’s
freedoms and human rights, has no real
influence save as an agent of Russia or
the United States.
It could scarcely discipline Jordan or
Laos, much less Russia.
POLITICAL POINTS
Smuggling on a large scale is alleged
to be rampant on the N.S.W.-Queensland
border. Not liquor, drugs or other con-
traband, but bodies ! The charge is that
New South Welshers living near the
border smuggle themselves across in order
to get free hospital-treatment in Queens-
land, thus avoiding the expense of
£l2 12s. a week upwards they would
have to pay if they went into hospital in
their own State. Queensland Health
Department is considering ways of dis-
couraging the practice. A possible way
out would be to make every patient
produce proof that all the germs and
wogs harbored by him are of Queensland
origin.
• •
Brisbane City Council has been employ-
ing a dowser to find water in New Farm
Park. If he has any success Gair should
get him to bring his twig along to the
State Treasury in search of liquid
assets.
• •
Experimental work at the Australian
Atomic Energy Commission’s research
plant at Lucas Heights, near Sydney, is to
begin early next year. If Senator
Spooner’s statement on the subject is to
be taken literally Australian scientists
have already achieved something never
before accomplished. He described the
superstructure of the reactor as a ten-
sided cylinder.
• •
In a test-case over Sydney Telegraph's
“Goldwords” competition the Crown
contended that “the nature of the com-
petition makes it a matter of chance, but
with a minor effort of skill.” Proprietors
of the “Telly” claimed that all the
answers were predetermined the competi-
tion could not be called a lottery within
the meaning of the Act. Meagher, C.S.M.,
decided that it could. Fined £2O.
• •
Nasser’s summary of the campaign
against the British, whom he claimed to
have driven out of Egypt earlier and
whom he threatened to annihilate if they
came again, is naive but comprehensive
He said on December 5 that the Egyptian
withdrawal from Sinai had “foiled the
enemy’s plan”:
If the withdrawal had been delayed 24
hours, the enemy would have succeeded
in their sinister plan—the complete
destruction of the Egyptian armed forces.
• •
Final count in the by-election for the
Ithaca seat in the Queensland Assembly:
Pat Hanlon (“Labor”), 5186 ; A. Edwards
(Lib.), 3578. Majority for Hanlon, 1608.
At the general election last May the late
L. Eastment held the seat for “Labor”
with a majority of 2256.
• •
Cahill has proclaimed a public holiday
on Monday, December 31, which will
apply to all workers under State awards.
When it was suggested that this might
cause dissatisfaction' among workers
under Federal awards, Joe said it was
open for their unions to apply for a
variation in their awards. Some unions
did so, but the Federal conciliation com-
missioners found no grounds for granting
(he extra holiday. That doesn’t worry
Cahill or his Government. They get the
kudos for giving a handout to half the
workers of N. S. Wales while the con-
ciliation commissioners get the abuse for
denying one to the other half. N. S.
Wales has an Industrial Court of its own,
but when there’s any political advantage
to be gained, the Cahills go over its head.
• • '
Hearing of the metal-trades unions’
claim for a higher basic wage —the claim
is virtually a test case for all unions
covered by Federal awards —has been
postponed until February 5. Kirby, J.,
president of the Commonwealth Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Commission,
has given as reasons for the postponement
the nearness of the last basic-wage judg-
ment and the changing nature of the
national economy.
• •
With Russian approval an official
American observer has left New York to
join the Soviet party that is in the Ant-
arctic for the International Geophysical
Year.
Eddie Ward, speaking at a meeting of
the S.A. branch of the A.L.P. last
Thursday, said the time had come for a
complete overhaul of the “Labor”-party
machine. Next day the State secretary
of the party hastened to explain that
Ward’s remarks had not been intended
as a criticism of the S.A. branch. Eddie
had been thinking particularly of the
N. S. Wales branch and had said that
he understood that the A.L.P. in
Adelaide was in a much healthier position
than in Sydney. After all, that’s not
surprising; the Adelaide branch doesn’t
have Eddie and the Doc.—except as
occasional visitors.
• •
According to the Inter-governmental
Committee for European Migration
134,077 refugees entered Austria from
Hungary between October 23 and
December 14.
• »
Australia will benefit in one respect
from the Suez crisis—it will get a lot more
British migrants. A. S. Hulme, M.H.R.
for Petrie (Q.), who is chairman of the
Immigration Planning Council, told a
meeting in Melbourne that applications at
Australia House had almost doubled
since the crisis began. By the end of
December we will have received about
CHRISTMAS IN THE KREMLIN
52,000 Britishers for the year; the figure
would have been much larger if ships had
not been requisitioned for troop move-
ments.
• •
A Premier and an ex-Premier demon-
strate the niceties of debate in the Wes-
tralian Assembly:
Sir Ross McLarty (the Minister for Health
having said that the Government did not wish to
check or gag anyone): You have done it
tonight. .
Premier Hawke: That is ridiculous.
McLarty: A sharp trick put over.
Hawke: Don’t be absurd. You are childish.
The Opposition is childish.
McLarty: You are not even reasonable. It
is a sharp trick.
Hawke: Childish!
McLarty: I can imagine the show you d put
on if you were over here.
The Acting Speaker : Order! Will the Leader
of the Opposition keep order,* please?
Hawke: Childish; like a spoilt kid!
McLarty: More of your dictatorial attitude
—a dictator, getting worse as you get older!
Hawke : Childish!
McLarty: Keep saying it and you will
believe it. A sharp trick!
The Minister for Health : The only reason
for my rising was so that I could reply.
Hawke: Childish!
McLarty: Don’t adopt a superiority complex.
The Acting Speaker : Order!
• •
“Stromlo”: There were a lot of scared
public servants in Canberra when they
received invitations to the Peking Opera
Company’s one-night stand in the Albert
Hall. Some invitations were refused, but
in many cases the anxious officials, fear-
ing some black marks on their records,
declined the invitations, but paid the 30s.
asked for their seats. So did quite a
number of diplomats who wanted to see‘
the show without being accused of
fraternising with Communist China.
• •
“Clockwise”: It was a good idea to
hold an international symposium on
tropical cyclones in Brisbane, coinciding
with storms which unroofed a lot of
houses in the vicinity. Interior Minister
Fairhall, opening the show, said its
primary objective was to devise the most
effective system of warning of the
approach of cyclones, especially in the
south-west Pacific and Indian Ocean areas
and the Australian region. He described
the atmospherics direction-finding net-
work to be set up in Queensland in
January, touched on flood prevention in
that State and elsewhere, and expressed
appreciation of the initiative and resource
shown by the director of the Common-
wealth Bureau of Meteorology, L. J.
Dwyer, in arranging the symposium.
• •
“Actin’’: Trade Department officials
and Japanese Embassy spokesmen in
Canberra promptly denied reports cabled
from Tokyo that the Japanese-Australian
trade talks had broken down over
Japanese refusal to buy 300,000 tons of
Australian wheat while reducing pur-
chases of U.S. “surplus” wheat. It was
suggested that the report had been a bit
of “kite-flying” (a favorite Japanese
sport) because of the difficult political
situation in Japan. The Embassy stressed
that the talks were continuing and that a
successful outcome was possible early in
the New Year.
• •
Latest from Egypt:
The curious position of the U.N. force in
Egypt becomes daily more curious. The
clearing of the Suez Canal has been placed
under control of General Wheeler, retired
Chief Engineer of the United States Army.
The Egyptians have completely broken the
cease-fire and have turned the same type
of commandos they used in Israel against the
retiring British, who have been forced to
retaliate. The U.N. force did nothing about
it, though the Norwegians covered a retreat of
part of the French.* The U.N. force seems to
be there as Nasser’s protector and ally. Mr.
Nehru has explained carefully that his troops
are in Egypt “only so long as the Egyptian
Government agrees.” They were “not there
fox the purpose of occupying the Canal Zone
but to police the previous cease-fire line.” But
Mr. Pearson of Canada says that the U.N. force
will stay in Egypt “until settlement is on the
way.” He adds: “We will not have done our
job at the U.N. if all we do is bring about a
cease-fire and withdrawal of the British, French
and Israel forces. What is the use of with-
drawing to the old state of affairs which brought
about the crisis?”
The whole thing is a muddle.
« •
“Wusslean”: Melbourne City Council’s
justification for spending money on an
ornamental fountain at the Haymarket
roundabout —“as a permanent reminder
that the Olympic Games have been held
in Melbourne” —won’t hold much water.
Far more tellingly the rebuilt cricket-
ground, the magnificent swimming-pool,
the velodrome, Olympic Village and
other substantial and useful works will
remind citizens for many years to come
of the thrilling moments of the XVI
Modern Olympiad. But, in extenuation,
it should be stated that the council
doesn’t expect the ratepayer to foot the
whole bill—if voluntary contributions
don’t meet the cost, “the three bodies
which paid for the Games —the Federal
and State Governments, and the City
Council” —will make up the balance. At
least, that’s the council’s idea.
• •
To the West, it is plain
The revolt set in train
In Hungary’s proving quite jolting;
To Khrushchev and co.
There’s a paradox, though :
It’s the Russians who re really
revolting!


Gociety
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
nrHE genial old gent, in red said to one
1 little lass, “And so you’d like a
walking-talking doll for Christmas? ’ The
child, with her eyes almost riveted on his
face, nodded assent. Said Mumma, aside
to her friend, “I could- cut his b
throat!”—“Lorna D.”
• • • • • •
“Bo”: In its Christmas procession
through the suburb’s shopping-centre
Eastwood (Sydney) Chamber of Com-
merce starred cowboy-crooner “Smoky”
Dawson on his caparisoned bronco and
clad in Western trappings. The cavalcade
wound-up at the sportsground, and there
a schoolkid hoisted the gun out of
Smoky’s holster unbeknownst to Smoky.
At last discovering his loss the
horrified musterer of imaginary longhorns
had to appeal for the gat’s return. Shore,
it’s plumb embarrassin’ for a synthetic
beef-conductor who might go to make a
lightnin’ dror for a six-shooter that ain’t
there when he has to face a berserk
assistant-secretary of the Chamber who’s
been chewin’ loco-weed!
“Lily Ann”: There is always something
to lighten the load in my shopping-basket
" Don't go to sleep , Claude—I haven’t finished telling you what
I said to the baker”
at this time of the year; today it was a
drunk weaving his way towards a ham
hanging in its cloth bag from the awning
of the smallgoods shop. Having apprais-
ingly felt the tempting object all over, his
face took on a pugilistic scowl as he
shaped up and gave the ham three or four
swift jabs with his fists.
“J. 8.”: The luxurious chauffeur-
driven limousine came to a halt as the
traffic-lights turned green. I glanced into
the plushy interior, expecting to see
Queensland’s Governor. In solitary state
on the back seat, regal in whit. 6 whiskers
and red coat, sat Santa Claus. The lights
changed and he was borne away before
I could ask him why no reindeer.
“Sister Ellell”: Having been asked to
review my list of patients for a suitable
Father Christmas and also a stand-in for
him, I went to see how the choice was
faring. In a lull in proceedings I sat on
the arm of his chair. He said, *T don’t
suppose you want a gift of a stocking?
No? Well, I’ll tell you what I’ll do with
you!” I didn’t think that anyone saw
him suit the action to the word, but
among the fresh crowd gathering there
piped a young hopeful, “Gee, Mum!
Look at Father Christmas! He just kissed
that nurse!”
“Wallboard”: My wife was enthusias-
tic about the Sydney County Council’s
latest pamphlet “Cut Your Cooking
Costs This Christmas,” outlining a
number of “economical” ways of prepar-
ing Christmas fare, until I pointed out that
the account which accompanied the
pamphlet represented an increase of
about 44 per cent, over the preceding
quarter’s bill. At least one Sydney house-
hold will now accept the council’s advice
and cut its cooking costs this Christmas
with a packet of sandwiches and a trip
to the beach.
“J.J.A.”: The E., S. and A. bank in
Maryborough (Vic.) is shortly to lose its
old-fashioned veranda and balcony and
become uniform with the rest of the banks
in offering no cover to men-in-the-street.
❖ ❖ *Z*
“P.M.”: So it’s beer-soaked coins (B.
28/11/’56) that burn holes in my pockets?
❖ *> ❖
“O.G.’ T : Sydney busmen cannot get
passengers to move along to the front.
So far the most successful lurk has been
to apply the brakes suddenly and shoot
them fbrward. The solution is to instal
a poker-machine at the front end. Only a
few would get a chance to play it, but
even passengers who had seats would
stand and crane their necks. And how it
would pay the department! '
“Geep”: As half-a-dozen film goodies
were on the point of routing a score of
baddies, a few big drops fell from a
thundery Perth sky upon the open-air
cinema-audience. The audience, shelter-
bound, rose as one. Simultaneously, the
baddies called it a day. “Looks like
they’ve all had enough,” boomed the voice
of the goodie-leader.
“Baksac”: When I went to school a
strong right arm taught me that Port
Said rhymed with “played.” Today most
of our radio-announcers pronounce the
name as “Say-eed,” Well, the old bloke
could have been wrong, I suppose,
although I know what he would have
done to the current announcer who gives
it as “Sed.” But by what law of
pronunciation does the news-reader on
a Sydney B-class station arrive at
Midd- leEast? And if it’s correct in
modern English to refer to the Quivery
Isles as Newzle-and I’ll eat an old-
fashioned straw-boater buttered with
modern margarine with a hard “g,”
“Postie”: A badly-timed simile
announced that by next March Queens-
land’s shaky finances would be put “back
on the rails.”
$
“Ranger”: It takes expert knowledge of
the lingo to understand these bargain-'
sale advertisements: “No-iron Cotton
Shirts” —I do remember the tough 1914
Diggers finding it easier to sleep on
thistles than on the shirts that somebody’s
Sister Susie was sewing for the soldiers...
Unable to imagine a poor mixed-up wool,
I decided against buying any “Wool-
Mixture Pullovers at Ridiculous Prices,”
and will put away in mothballs, and try to
get another winter out of it, the simple,
all-wool one I bought pre-war. It’s only
when the wife is away that I find these
ads. hard to understand: she reads them
like a book.
“P.0.M.C.”: Loyalty of suburbia
exemplified in the Rising Fast coffee-and-
snack bar (B. 5/12/’56)? Why, until
recently, our suburb had a Carbine Cafe!
❖ *
“Cash Count”: Bank-buildings used
to be the most formal architecture in our
cities ; the nearest inside to a lay cathed-
ral, hushed with the reverence due to
money. Walk into one of the newer
branches, and you might imagine you had
wandered into an American-style drug-
store —post-dated architecture, glass
everywhere, and blond woods taking over
from old-style cedar and mahogany. One
bank scatters potted flowers round the
banking-chamber. I hope I don’t get a
transfer to one of these glass-houses. I
fear my ancient office coat, with its ten-
years’ accumulation of ink-stains, would
be out of place.
♦l* ♦> ♦♦♦
“Apemantus”: A Perth “view to
marriage” gent, who wants a wife
“between fifty or little older,” is bound
to find that that’s a much wider feminine-
age specification than it reads.
♦♦♦ *x* *Z'
“Old Cynic”: Women are getting the
most out of their evening-gowns these
nights of inflation.
*i>
“Melboy”: .Today’s Uni.-rags are mild
affairs. Six-hundred years ago a bunch
of Oxonians, celebrating the
feast of St. Scholastica the
Virgin, disapproved of some
vyine served them and threw
it in the face of the tavern-
keeper. The Bung’s mates
rang the bell of St. Martins,
and numerous citizens let
fly at the students With bow-
and-arrow. Appealing for
peace, the Uni. chancellor
was fired-on also, so he rang
St. Mary’s bell and gathered
his own crew of archers.
The blue continued until
Edward 111 placed Oxford
under interdict. Sixty or
more students were killed,
and town and gown began
a no-speak marathon that
lasted until two years ago
before the hatchet was
buried for keeps.
$ $ $
“Tom Trout”: Are there
peoples more gastronomi-
cally unsynchronised than
Anglo-Saxon and Gaul?
In provincial Britain, 6.30
p.m. or even 6 p.m. is
commonly shutting-down time for
restaurants (those I can afford!). That’s
even earlier than those I used to frequent
in Australia. But, in the French departe-
ments I travelled through, it was practic-
ally impossible to get a meal before 8
p.m. The quizzical expression of patrons
showed how odd they thought my request,
even coming from a foreigner.
❖ ❖ ►+♦
“W.P.T.”: The Sydney suburb of
Mascot has a very fine war-memorial, but
it seems inappropriately situated in
Coward-street.
♦>
Never knew we had so many
reversible towns till the eleven different
ways of spelling Paraparap set me look-
ing them up. Besides Paraparap, South-
Oss has Glenelg and Hattah ; Lai Lai and
Tub but belong to Victoria, while Queens-
land has Aramara, W.A. has Nallan and
N.S.W. Tumut.
“W.P.T.”: It’s over a Wentworthville
(N.S.W.) bakery: “The Home of the Big
Loafer.” Another I’ve seen reads: “This
truck is being driven by a blind man” —
a manufacturer of window-blinds; and
there’s a leather-worker whose truck is
emblazoned “Hill for Leather.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
“Scorpio”: A country schoolteacher
doesn’t believe in the strap. For mis-
demeanors his boys are told to bring him
six Westerns, new or old. It is said that
his library of Hopalongs is the largest in
the countryside. Uncultured boys who
cannot oblige must bring a supply of
worms—Sir’s library is excelled in
quality only by his collection of fishing-
gear.
* ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: It’s so English, that
England, which gave the export-trade the
Gorgeous Gussie, should retain for herself
the Shirley Bloomer.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nidus”: With monotonous consis-
tency she would arrive to make a pay-
ment on her account as the poor, long-
suffering cashier was in the midst of
reckoning-up the shekels. “The bitch!”
he would murmur as he adjusted his
figures to include the latecomer’s offer-
ing ... By an extraordinary coincidence
the lady’s ledger-folio was “K. 9.”
❖ ❖
’Twas better to have loved and lost
Her ultimate decision
Than to have won and borne the cost
Of kids plus television !
N.s.\y*
P. O. M. C.,
SANTA NICK AND SANTA IKE
Christmas coming round this year
Brings two rival Santas here:
Santa Nick gets off his bike
When he thinks of Santa Ike,
Santa Ike goes lunatic
At the thought of Santa Nick;
Both, as though to make amends,
Take their anger out on friends:
Santa Ike refuses toys
To his French and English boys,
Santa Nick, that friend of Man’s,
Shoots his dear Hungarians . . .
Wondering what next to do,
Whom to give their presents to,
Where to spend their stores of love,
They hear voices from above
Borne upon the Eastern air
In an old Egyptian prayer:
“Gibbit baksheesh, gibbit quick,
Or we pray to Santa Nick !”
“Gibbit guns, or ,we no like,
Maybe pray to Santa Ike !”
Santa Ike lets flow his banks,
Santa Nick sends bombs and tanks ;
Santa Nick says, “This is for
Starting up a Holy War !”
Santa Ike says, “Listen, please,
Here’s a dam for goddam peace!”
Little Nasser laughs and plays,
Christmas Day his Day of Days;
Though a Moslem, anyhow,
He can think he’s Christmas now,
For there’s no percentage in
Being allies, kith or kin:
They’re not worth a Santa’s bids,
Just, a lot of Christian kids.
N.s.w,
SWILLIAM.


and kids being in the metropolis
I naturally order some bottles of lunch
to help me digest my own cooking. A
new and reputedly abstemious inspector-
of-schools lobs in and is flat-out putting
my 50 young hopefuls through their
“They tell me he's an Air-VICE-M arshal —the scoundrel!”
paces when the merchant’s truck arrives,
with Bluey tooting his horn outside the
house. Out I go, and as I stagger up the
front steps with a case of the best on my
shoulders I see the gentleman getting a
grandstand-gander at me from the school-
veranda. I sneak round to the back of
the school and land in the second room
to take a Temperance lesson with grades
111 and IV, when he sidles in and shoots
out of the side of his mouth: “I hope
you put a couple in the fridge. This heat
gets me.” —“Old Crab.”
*i* i* ♦>
What did N.S.W. police mean
by recently jailing a man for living in a
12ft. barrel? Someone ought to tell them
why the double-decker bed has gained so
much in popularity—not, as they probably
imagine, because ex-cons, get homesick. A
barrel is not only a man’s castle these
days; with most of its contents, accord-
ing to annual beer-consumption statistics,
inside him, and him inside it, it is as near
as one man can get to a self-contained
economy.
* ❖ i*
“Mugga Way”: New hope for many
blind persons in England is offered by a
new organisation, the Eye Will Founda-
tion. This is to make itself responsible
for setting-up centres where eyes be-
queathed for the benefit of the blind can
be collected and dispatched to any hospital
needing them. And it’s estimated that
one-third of the population will eventu-
ally be willing to bequeath eyes.
♦+♦ +> . ♦>
“Miss M.”: New Australians have
given many an original twist to English,
but I have yet to hear one improve on a
Dutch airman I nursed during the war,
who referred to his insteps as his
“step-ins.”
*l* ❖ *Z*
“8.A.H.”: Two youths who were
given a lift from Sydney to Canberra
were charged with illegally using their
benefactor’s car and stealing money from
a leather bag in the back of the car.
Having given evidence against the youths,
the car-owner himself figured in the next
case as defendant—on a charge of stealing
the leather bag and contents in Sydney.
❖ ❖ . ♦♦♦
“Nala Trebor”: Notwithstanding
“Doormat’s” sneer at the City of
Churches (B. 28 /II / ’56) Adelaide still
pursues the path of moral rectitude, at
any rate in Burnside, where the council
was petitioned by 22 residents against
erection of a two-story block of eight
bachelor flats: —-
“Our wives will not be prepared to
stay alone with a group of unknown and
possibly irresponsible men in such close
proximity . . . .”
“Eureka”: An insurance company has
replaced one of the banks on one-of the
four corners at that Orange (N.S.W.)
intersection (B. 28/11 / ’56). But captains
of tourist-coaches, who always drew the
attention of their passengers to the four
banks, still get a talking-point from saying
that the phenomenon no longer exists. As
for banks side-by-side, all the Canberra
banks used to .be side-by-side, but of
course Canberra is just groups gone wild.
* ❖ *
“Old Repertorian”: “Wyuna” (B.
5/12/’56) is a bit late discovering the
alteration in German’s “Yeomen of
England.” Probably in the production
“round 1921” Howett-Worster was using
an old libretto. When produced at
Sydney Conservatorium in 1928 the new
version “Nations to eastwards,” etc., was
used, and I have frequently heard it on
broadcasts from 2BL. My impression
is that the original “Spaniards and Dutch-
men,” etc., was changed to “Austrian
Hungarians and Russian barbarians”
“Ah , there's a divinity that shapes our ends , rough-heW them
how We will.”
shortly after the Russian revolution.
When “Merrie England” was first pro-
duced, long before 1910, “Spaniards and
Dutchmen and Frenchmen” were the only
foes prior to the 100 years Pax Britannica
being broken in any rate during
the period round which the opera was
written.
❖ ❖ *:♦
“J.J.A.”: So both “Tidbinbilla” and
the Service Department think there’s no
limit to the number of tunes that could
be composed (B. 24/10/’56). There’s no
limit to the number d'f different sets of
noises that could be composed, but tunes
must harmonise, and that sobers the
figure down a lot, and although a large
number of melodies is possible, our taste
will only admit melodies within very
narrow limits. Which explains the
similarities between Victorian drinking-
tunes and Sankey’s hymn-tunes.
£* £«
“Eureka”: We’ve arrived at television ;
I’m wondering if we’ll ever get
smellevision. In a little South Coast town
an old-time travelling company Staged
“The Breaking of the Drought” and
during a bushfire-scene some green gum-
leaves were burnt off-stage and the smell
of the burning gumleaves carried right
through the audience. It was certainly
crude, but it gave a real bushfire
atmosphere.
“J. 8.”: If there’s an equivalent of the
V.C. in plant-life it should be awarded
to two Moreton Bay figs growing out of
the chimney-stacks javer Adams’s Hotel
in Pitt-street, Sydney. They have been
growing there for at least 10 years, and
the only nutriment they have is the lime
between the bricks, and Sydney soot.
“Doric”: It is the fashion to praise
European food, but it’s not everybody’s
cup-of-tea. At a hptel in Italy we got
luscious strawberries like apples,
but well soused with a treacle-like sub-
stance that completely took away the
strawberry flavor. And our asparagus
was covered with a fried egg, and just in
time we stopped the waiter coating every-
thing with grated cheese.
Reviewing the Speck’s pros-
pects for the next 50 years, a forum of
University-lecturers in Hobart agreed that
its economic outlook was gloomy. They
pointed out that large-scale development
was limited by geographic isolation, poor
shipping-services and declining resources.
Indignant Tasmanians reached for their
pens, and for a week leading articles and
letters to the editor decried thd Univer-
sity’s doleful dirge—its contribution
incidentally to the Festival of Tasmania
celebrations ! But at the end of the week
the same papers said one of Hobart’s
bigger factories intended transferring
holus-bolus to Victoria because of high
hydroelectric charges, municipal rates that
had risen 200 per cent., and costly air-
freighting.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
THE Public Relations Gold Medal
for the Olympians goes to Galina
Zybina, of Russia, who remarked at a
Sydney party when the press was trying
to corner her on Russian women’s
fashions: “It is difficult always to look
beautiful when you are dressed in furs.”
—“Popoff.”
“Near Miss”: The wife of one of the
few permanent members of the Inter-
national Olympic Council, the decision
of which in Rome gave us the Games by
one vote, confided to my wife, a voluntary
driver, that she was delighted that her
husband had been the one responsible-
he had intended to vote for another part
of the world, but at the last moment had
been prevented from being present at the
meeting.
“Nymph”: The A.B.C. announcer
immediately after the finish of the
women’s 4 x 100-metres swimming relay
in which a false-alanfi caused the first leg
to prop: “Australia has won,' but not as
well as I thought they would, but it’s a
world record.” They only knocked 2.6
seconds off it! <
“D.J.G.”: In an illustrated folder on
heavy paper, issued by Victoria’s Housing
Commission to commemorate the build-
ing of Olympic Village, a statement in
English and French signed by the
Minister for Housing begins: “This is a
most unusual Village”; “Ce n’est pas id
un village exceptionnel” —which, as my
schoolboy son informs me, does not argue
so well for Anglo-French understanding
as operations in Egypt may have led us to
expect. #
“Doynest”: Not only scalpers made
money out of the Games, “Rimutuka”
(B. 5/12/’56): my younger son tells me
that some of his mates took a week off
from school and enrolled as sellers of
sweets, ice-cream, etc., at the main
stadium. Working on commission they
did pretty well: one lad netted £24,
another £17 —with full view of the
Games, in itself worth at least a quid
a day.
“Viet.”: A chap was standing out-
side a pub with a full glass in his hand
hatching the approach of the long last
of the 50,000-metre walkers. The escorting
police motor-cyclist slid alongside and
said “Put that away—it’ll put him off.”
The bloke was a wake-up and downed it
quicker than Slip Carr could have done.
THE ONE ESSENTIAL
“Applications for positions as Santa Claus
have been heavier this Christmas than for some
years, but the personnel-officer oL one
department-store said too many applicants
didn’t have the quality of ‘stout geniality
needed.”
“Let me have men about me that are
fat” ...
Thus Caesar, in a philosophic mood.
Not that Imperial Rome’s greaf autocrat
Admired twin chins, or paunch of
magnitude
From the (esthetic angle—far from that!
He simply thought that fat men liked
their food
So much they’d likely spend more time
in squatting
In front of plates, and less in treasonous
plotting.
Since then the fellows of expansive girth,
With which go multiple necks and
swinging jowl
Which jelly-shake as they are moved to
mirth,
Don’t seem to sort, somehow, with deed
that’s foul.
From them it’s very easy to unearth
Strong geniality, rarely a scowl.
It follows there are natural allocations
Of fleshly men to well-defined vocations.
\
The Bung whose embonpoint greatly
distends
Not only looks the part, but seems
to be
A walking advert, for the stuff he vends.
And, after all, what patron wants to see
One with a wizened chassis which depends
For prop on spindle-shanks ? You’ll all
agree
He would look odd. And equally out of
place
A Father Christmas with a hatchet-face.
If cunningly devised, much padding might
Disguise a skeleton-frame to trick the
kids
Who come to be assured that they are
right
For everything from Hornby trains to
grids i
But gaunt, pinched dial would give the
mites a fright.
And certainly it’s gooseberries to quids
The cottonwool beaver, each store will
insist, mus’
Adorn a podgy face of Father Christmas.
It’s hard, but there it is! Department-
stores J
Don’t want an ersatz Santa full of vim,
Oozing activity from ail his pores —
Attributes so common to the slim.
In such a job the*moon-faced joker scores;
Of jollity he looks full to the brim,
Even though, in rests between conversing,
The harassed, perspiring one is roundly
cursing !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Victoria’s retailing David Jones has a
distinctive middle name, Fletcher, which
distinguishes him from the Sydney giant,
and which he prefers his friends to use.
Like the founder (the late Sidney Myer)
of the Myer Emporium, the Melbourne
giant, Fletcher Jones was a district
pedlar.
,In his earlier business career he made
merchandising mistakes —but in the
retail business buyers and similar im-
portant people aren’t reckoned worth
employing if they don’t make mistakes.
He really got into his stride during the
war, when the Supply Department asked
him to make Pastoralists Pants —farmers
had been complaining they couldn’t get
about producing more when their pants
began to go.
Now he makes pants for peers, as well
as for pastoralists and all between. He
is also chairman of the Warrnambool
Woollen Co., Ltd., which has just reported
another prosperous year, entrenching him
in the esteem of Warrnambool, where
much of his work is done. His shops bear
the legend Fletcher Jones and Staff, which
is not a mere conceit; his staff owns more
of the business than he does. He tells
them exactly what he is up to, or is about
to do. “If I couldn’t,” he says, “I
shouldn’t be doing it.”
9 9
New Zealand’s Rhodes Scholars this
year are R. M. Bilger, Auckland Univer-
sity College, and G. M. Neutze, Lincoln
Agricultural College. Bilger, known in
Rugby and yachting, is studying for his
final sections of the B.Sc. and B.E.
degrees. At Oxford he will do his Ph.D.
Brought up on farms, Neutze studied
agriculture at Otago University College,
and later at Lincoln, where he graduated
B.Agr.Sc.
• ©
For 35 years Sydney’s Showground has
been to Eric Halliwell a sort of ohm from
ohm, as it were; but he has attended his
last Royal Show there in his official
capacity, for at the year’s end he retires,
at 65, from his job as the R.A.S.’s
electrical-engineer. A native of Man-
chester, he came to Australia in 1910 as
electrical-engineer to Nestles. When the
Big Yike broke in 1914 he became
electrical-instructor at the Central Flying
School at Laverton, later transferring to
the R.A.N. Radio Service. He was in
New Guinea with the Expeditionary
Force in T 5, taking charge of .the wireless-
stations captured from the Germans.
When, he joined the R.A.S. in 1921 the
electrical loading at the Showground was
200 amps ; today it is 10,000. As well as
supervising this huge increase, Halliwell
was also responsible for the electrical
installations at the showgrounds of every
other capital city on the mainland and in
practically every city and major town in
his home State.
• •
Veteran sculler John Sullivan, of
Alderley, Brisbane, still dips an oar —at
80. He figured in his first win as a fours
cox in 1886 ; he was in the winning
Queensland eights and fours, and then
took the double-sculls and Queensland
single-sculls championships. Out of 117
starts he had 101 wins. Four years ago
he won a pennant for trick-sculling at a
Brisbane River meet. Recently he carved
three 16in. oars from ash and went to
Maryborough to present them to old
rowing-mates Bob Dunlop, Bill Gordon
and Bob Hunter (the city’s Mayor). And
every weekend John Sullivan rows two
miles on the Brisbane River’s Milton
Reach. 4
• * •
“Maitri” farewells a fellow-musician:
Dr. Edgar Leslie Bainton, who (at 76)
collapsed and died while having his customary
daily swim in Sydneyside waters, was bom in
London, a son of the Rev. George Bainton.
Educated at the King Henry VIII School,
Coventry, and at the R.C.M., he was appointed
Director of the N.S.W. State Conservatorium
in 1934, after having held the same post at
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
A prolific composer in many forms, his best-
known work was his opera “The Pearl Tree”
based on a legendary episode in the life of the
Hindu avatar Krishna.
Bainton’s music is thoroughly English, and
in the best tradition of Purcell, Elgar and
Vaughan Williams, but is in no sense imitative.
His musical integrity was unshakeable ; he had
no time for poseurs and shams ; but he was
unfailing in his encouragement of the sincere
musicmaker. A man of gentle manner, he
nevertheless stuck strongly to his views.
He was a past-president of the Folklore
Association of Australia.
Sydney’s best-known first-nighter will
be missing for a few months while Ernest
Lindsey Browne, “S. M. Herald’s” music
and theatre critic, is overseas taking-in
music and stage in Britain and Europe.
Melbourne-born, Browne started with the
“Herald” as a cadet and. came up through that
paper’s efficient training-mill, doing most of the
daily rounds and spending some time on the
Canberra and New York stalls before taking
over his critic post in 1946.
His interest in music dates way back —his
cadet’s pay of £2 a week when he first came
to Sydney went mainly on board and a piano
at ss. a week. He reviewed his first stage show
—“The Enchanted Cottage”—in 1935 at Doris
Fitton’s Independent, when that theatre was
housed at Sydney Savoy. These days his able
assessments of music and stage are first reading
on the morning after, and very readable they
are, too.
Browne is also responsible for some of the
“Herald’s” film-reviews —M.-G.-M.’s lion,
normally a placid and amiable beast, snarled
threateningly at him when he met it in Holly-
wood. And if all that sounds like a busy life,
here is the rest of the list:
He plays the piano, of course ; in cricket he
captains the Lane Cove B team —and the
“Herald” literary staff . team against the
“Telegraph’s” ditto ; plays Australian Rules (he
THEATRE CRITIC
made North Shore A grade at 41) ; walks
prodigious distances (up to 30 miles daily),
frequently walking several miles from home
to shows and home again—his wife drives in
and meets him at the show —and swims on
much the same scale ; and collects stamps-+-he
has a complete mint collection of Australian
Commonwealth stamps.
Browne also produces the “Herald’s” daily
crosswords, and a few years ago, by an
ingenious arrangement of words, proposed in
one of them! He and his wife now live at
Greenwich, wjth four children and, of course,
never a cross word between them.
• •
Washington-bound next April, Com-
mander L. M. Hinchcliffe, R.A.N., will
there succeed Wing-Commander R. T.
Susans as staff-officer to the head of the
Australian Joint Services Staff. In 1939-
45 he served in the Mediterranean and
the Pacific, with D.S.C. in the Crete fight.
Afterwards he commanded H.M.A.S.
Warramunga, and since 1955 he’s been
Director of Manning at the Navy Office.
• •
Australians at General Motors-Holden’s
claim Harlow W. Gage—appointed as a
director only five months after trans-
ferring to Melbourne—is at least one of
the most engaging Americans ever sent
to help lead the big plant at Fishermen’s
Bend.
He came there from Maoriland, where
he was G.M.’s managing-director at
Wellington. G.M. (N.Z.) manufactures
Frigidaire refrigerators and ranges, but
only assembles cars and trucks, chiefly
English Vauxhalls ; now he is in the big
(Holden) time! He says the Holden has
been very well received across the
Tasman, but import controls keep their
numbers down.
Gage joined G.M. Overseas Operations
in New York in 1934 after leaving Nor-
wich (U.S.) University, was loaned to the
motor-transport department of the U.S.
Army in the war, and has since been an
executive in the Middle East. In addi-
tion to moving in on the G.M.H. direc-
torate here, he is now settling in to a
Toorak house with a young family.
e •
Two Australian writers who have been
published in time to join the Christmas
rush are husband-and-wife D’Arcy
Niland and Ruth Park, with a joint auto-
biography entitled The Drums Go Bang.
It is of their writing-life together and
could hardly .be expected to have the
nostalgic charm of Ruth Park’s semi-
autobiographical novel Pink Flannel, but
it gives a lively account of their early
struggles in Sydney, when Ruth Park was
living in Surry Hills to collect the bugs,
rats, etc., for The Harp in the South and
when Niland was on the wallaby learning
the background for The Shir alee. They
both return thanks for the help they have
had from (among others) Leslie Rees of
the A.B.C.—and Leslie and Coralie
Rees, joint authors of Spinifex Walk-
about, are another husband-and-wife
team with a new book on the market,
Westward from Cocos, about their
travels in the Indian Ocean.
® ©
Forty years back Matthew Thomas
Padbury, of Guildford (W.A.), was a
member of the royal commission'looking
into the prospects of the Esperance
country for the closer-settlement now
going on there, just as the Reaper has
gathered in, at 86, that g.o.m. of
Westralian land interests. Born in Eng-
land, Padbury came to W.A. in 1888,
learnt the lay of the land on properties
pioneered by an uncle,' took up land of
his own, near Moora in the Westralian
Midlands, and developed it into a model
farm. Changing then to Guildford, he
developed business interests in and around
Perth, became chairman of directors of
Westralian Farmers, Ltd., was a founda-
tion-member (later president) of the
Primary Producers’ Association, twice
president of Westralia’s R.A.S. and
member of the advisory board of the
Muresk Agricultural College.
• •
After the first cricket Test against
South Africa in December, 1952, during
which he had his 34th birthday, lan
Johnson was dropped, after a mediocre
performance, and his Test career seemed
to be oyer. Then he set about rebuilding
his stocks, and made such a job of it
that he returned to the Test side against
England in 1954-55 —as captain. Notch-
ing an overwhelming win in the first Test,
he stayed in the job to skipper the Aus-
tralian XI that won the rubber against
the West Indies. Now he has put his
pads away for good. In all Johnson
played in 45 Tests, against every cricket-
ing country, and, while registering only
one or two exceptional bowling
efforts, he often made a handy con-
tribution with bat or ball. An all-rounder
off as well as on the field, he had been
a fair amateur boxer and an Aussie Rules
footballer; and in the Pacific war he flew
Beaufighters. In civvy life he has been
variously accountant, wine-and-spirit
merchant, sports-writer and broadcaster
—and he’s a good after-dinner speaker.
• •
“Chic” Arnold, who manages
Adelaide’s Majestic Theatre, started his
working-life in a solicitor’s office, taking
a fly at vaudeville on Saturday nights as
a change from settlements and torts.
When he was 18 Momus k.o.’d his legal
career and he went to Sydney to join
Harry Clay’s vaudeville circuit. Thence
to New York, with a tough time before
THEATRE CONTROLLER
he got a break with a long run with the
Broadway success “Present Arms.” In
London he teamed with comedian
Charles Norman, top-billing in Oswald
Stoll shows. Back in Australia, he
starred on many a bill for the Firm. For
a while, too, he was with Charles Chauvel
films as assistant-director.
Having craftily lured Dr. F. T. Bow-
man away from the orange-groves and
lemon-rows of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department and into a chair where the
light shone upon him, a Bulletin scribe sat
back and asked questions while Dubois sketched.
Then the scribe went down to Seaforth and
without seasonal assistance (his wife vouches
for this) dropped over one of the precipices
completely surrounding the home he’s building
there. He’s no better than could be expected,
CITRUS AUTHORITY
and what he learnt of Dr. Bowman is con-
sequently obscure.
Of course there is the telephone, and Dr.
Bowman’s no doubt used to being rung-up by
now (he’s been 30 years with his department);
but, then, this is the time (here, anyway) for
peace on earth and goodwill to all men, and
why overlook even the Public Service?
So enough to have the admirable portrait by
the sympathetic artist, and to add that the only
thing we know of that can be held against Dr.
Bowman is that he has to plead guilty to having
perpetrated a first-class book, for new or
established growers of the juicier fruits. An
Angus and Robertson publication, it is as
thoroughly comprehensive as its title, Citrus
Growing in Australia (subject of an appreciative
“Man on the Land” article B. 12/12/’56). It is
true that in the department which most specialises
in research Dr. Bowman is known by the alias
of Principal Research Officer, and he has also
been known to lecture at the University, but
even these things barely warrant grilling him
again. Instead, greetings —and congratulations.
• «
Francis Villeneuve Smith, who has
passed on in Adelaide at 72, was for many
years one of the most outstanding
barristers in Australia. Adelaide-born, he
was named after an uncle who was Chief
Justice of Tasmania, but the Villeneuve
goes back much ftirther than that—a
great-grandfather was the Admiral
Villeneuve who commanded the French
fleet at Trafalgar.
Called to the S.A. Bar in 1906,
Villeneuve Smith became a K.C. in 1919.
He was then 35, the youngest man to have
taken silk in Australia ; R. G. Menzies
equalled his performance 10 years later.
President of the S.A. Law Society 1933-
34, and of the Law Council of Australia,
1936-37, Villeneuve Smith represented
Australia at the Bar Conference of World
Lawyers at Toronto, Canada, in 1927.
The tribute paid to him on that occasion
by Lord Hewart, Chief Justice of Eng-
land, who described his address to the
conference as “the finest speech I have
ever heard,” surprised no one. who had
heard him in his best form as an after-
dinner speaker. Villeneuve Smith* con-
tinued in harness until he was 70. His
last big case was an appearance for the
Commonwealth Government in a dis-
pute over the re-routing of the Port
Augusta-Leigh Creek railway. The case
lasted 15 months ; he won it.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 74, James Thorn,
former High Commissioner in Canada for N.Z.
A native of Christchurch, he went in his ’teens
as trumpeter with N.Z.’s 3rd contingent to
the Boer War. Later he helped form N.Z.’s
Labor party ; failed to win a seat in Parliament,
and went to England, working as a journalist
and with the Labor movement there. Back in
N.Z., he edited the “Maoriland Worker.”
Another try at Parliament, in 1935, for Thames
succeeded. He was the author of The Life of
Peter Fraser and N.Z.’s Labor Government.
In Melbourne, at 65, during the Olympic
Games, William McAuliffe, manager of the
Australian boxing-team at the Games. Since
1953 he had been president of the Queensland
Boxing Union. Manager of Victoria' Park
(Brisbane) housing-settlement.
In Sydney, at 59, Dr. John Hughes, who
made the fight against t.b. his life-work. He
was a former deputy-director of N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Health’s t.b. division.
At the Repatriation General Hospital, Heidel-
berg (Vic.), James McConchie, Red Cross
Commissioner. He served with Red Cross from
1941 to 1945 in Pacific war-areas ; Order of
St. John of Jerusalem for his services.


|f was cmsrms p Ay tN
> Aw **** «„
p them >
*»**?
" 1 ■ ■ I M
r Oy * N -HO(j£-OR.-sos
a w -«r «W.
i *
'* ,KT r-6o e
To Go J <** AL L .
FROM <?*
A' vo*S „ mey
W “ 4
V=- , .
a, Vr ws*. cmsrt*? /
* ' r TO J o s *
FARE GO, JOE!


ABORIGINALITIES
OCENE: The Government office. Time:
Monday morning. The whisper went
round: “There’s one hell of a big stink
coming up.” Officers, grave-faced,
gathered round a desi behind closed
doors. The owner of the desk spoke
forcefully and at some length. His
audience exchanged glances, mumbled,
and shook their heads ; one man, more
daring than the others, emitted a derisive
laugh. The desk-owner smote it till it
shifted. “I tell you I have proof!” He
dragged open a drawer, produced a
bundle, tore off the layers of wrappings.
“Now,” he cried, on a high note of
triumph, “do you believe me?” They
bent, looked, backed away, and capitu-
lated. The man who had laughed
remarked: “0.K., it probably did weigh
seven and a half pounds.” The conference
broke up hurriedly, and the “proof,” a
large couta-head, was rewrapped and put
away. It was one hell of a big stink. —
“Narumee.”
* * * *
“Tom Trout” (London): As a ham-
fisted newchum in the banana-lands near
the Tweed (N.S.W.) I used to be told, to
my shame, of the speed of some of the
local boys in knocking together cases, and
stripping and packing the fruit—and
comforted myself that this was a minor
skill of only local fame. Twenty years
later I come down to the sitting-room of
my pensione in Rome and find the inter-
national tenantry goggle-eyed around the
TV-set, watching in a sports-report
(which included trials for Italy’s Olympics
team) a banana-packing race in far-off
Australia!
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Late-arriving spring-
weather had its effect on the various
N.S.W. floral festivals. At Grafton every-
thing was laid on except jacaranda-
blossom. Goulbum’s Lilac Time was
fragrant with lilac—which came mostly
from Sydney. Most of Orange’s cherry-
blossom had never seen a cherry-tree.
Glen Innes, honoring its own floral
emblem, had nary a rose to compete with
blooms from rival towns, which carried
off all the honors. Inverell, planning a
“do” for next year, is playing safe by
calling it simply “Floral Festival.”
* * * ««
“Half-Dirty”: It was my first go at
grape-picking at a winery vineyard;
morning break punctuated by the
arrival of four containers (called “pigs”)
of vintage on a springcart. My pannikin-
ful drew the nails out of my boots, but
I put this down to innocence—-until 1
saw the reactions of several hardened
gurglers in the mob. They stared silently
and sternly at the “pig-man.” He shuffled,
his eyes pleading “Not guilty” as he
quickly urged his horse to action and
gave frightened backward glances at the
determined deputation following the
cart. The manager apologised with a
crate of bottles bearing a branded label.
I was content to watch the ensuing spree,
and could only reflect, in the effect of the
substitute, that the original offering may
well have been intended for an atomic
war-head.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Despite his size, armor, and
undoubted climbing-powers, the goanna
puts up a poor show when attacked in the
treetops by nest-defending birds. He
likes eggs, and he cannot be accused of
cowardice, as witness his Homeric
encounters with snakes; but I’ve seen
him routed ignominiously by even quite
small birds at times. Maybe the birds’
mobility disconcerts him, but also, I think,
“A present from the Games!"
he doesn’t really feel at home aloft. At
any rate, it’s noticeable that when the go.
has his four claws firmly planted on the
good earth assaults by avians never unduly
perturb him.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The cosiest nest about the
swamp just now is in a fork of a small
tea-tree 50yds. in from the water’s edge.
It is built of rushes and lined with the
same stuff, teased, together with bits of
string and hessjan, and it’s only about
3ft. above the water, in a good position
for observation; but, although I watched
it carefully for some time, 1 could never
see the bird around it. I inspected it,
several times, too, but never saw any
eggs in it, and when I finally saw the
young ones I wondered how. on earth
they’d ever leave the tree—l knew that
species couldn’t fly. I needn’t have
worried. The mother knew what she was
doing. She can swim like an eel, and can
support a family easily on what the
swamp can provide. All the same, it
did seem strange to see those young
house-rats scampering about the branches
of that tea-tree, ’way from the nearest
dry land. J
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: It’s indisputable that a
right-handed man wears-out the right
member of a pair of heavy working-boots
while the left is still in reasonable condi-
tion ; and lefthanders are similarly heavier
on the dexter dumper. Seeing that no-
body hops around on one foot while
working, the reason for the unevenness
of wear can only be that extra weight is
borne by one side more than the other,
as the right-handed coves carry objects in
that hand, and so on. Since an injury
to my right arm robbed it of some of its
strength I automatically use my left hand
when juggling weights higher than my
shoulder—putting up a ladder, for
instance. Now my left boot wears out
first. When I think of all those left boots
I threw away!
* * * *
“Archbell”: My sister-in-law, who lives
opposite the local golf-links, for the past
year has been spending a couple of bob
a week on meat to feed two kookaburras
that in the first place cashed-in on the
cat’s dinner. Lately, they have been
tuming-up for their issue singly and,
instead of eating the lot at once, they fly
across the links to the redgums on the
Ovens River, making repeated trips,
taking one piece of meat at a time.
Reckon Elv will have to visit her butcher
more often soon, as I can forecast 4he
arrival in her yard of a brood of feathered
new Australians, with the old birds.
* * * *
“Eddas”: “Reims” (B. 21/ 11/’56)
makes the almost universal error of refer-
ring to the “bite” of poisonous snakes.
It is the non-poisonous pythons and
short-toothed snakes that bite ; all of our
poisonous snakes strike! At the moment
of striking, the lower jaw is retracted and -
the mouth closed, the fangs protruding
like the tines of a cultivator. On impact,
the lower jaw is pressed upon the poison-
sacs at the base of the fangs, and, on the
principle of the hypodermic, the poison is
squeezed or injected through either hollow
or tubular fangs by the pressure exerted.
In respect to the sea-snake, it is safe to
regard them all as poisonous. The toxicity
of the worst varieties is about 40 times
more potent than that of the land-snake ;
it has to be to be effective, for its prey is
mostly cold-blooded, with a slow circu-
latory-system. The biggest sea-snake I
have seen —a yellow, one of the deadliest
—measured 10ft. 4in.
* * * *
“Apemantus”: “M’boro’s” Maori,
speeding to the bowser before his petrol
runs out (B. 21/11/’56), is following pre-
cedent. Painters hustle to finish while
their paint lasts and milkers work fast in
case the cows dry off. There’s a difference,
though, when volunteers tear into it as
the keg spins out.
* * • *
“Bass”: Did someone Here say you
can’t eat starlings? They do in Syria,
where they’re trapped and sold in the
streets; in Spain they sell sparrows ; and
in my neck of the woods, near Perth,
they trap and eat willie-wagtails—at least,
my New Australian neighbors do. They
also trap kookaburras —very sweet, they
say—and wattle-birds, and they’ve even
tried magpie and butcher-bird. Since
they arrived there’s been a pronounced
decline in the bird-population, and with
memories of whole districts in the wheat-
belt denuded of wildlife by the Italian
clearing-gangs in the 1930’5, I’m racking
my brains for some way to stop the
slaughter. Appeals are treated with the
hilarious contempt which toothless laws
always engender, and that’s strange,
because I’ve found that in Europe birds
are protected with almost religious
fervor, particularly insectivorous birds.
Bavarian farmers prepare nests before the
annual arrival of the sparrows.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Probably captured crayfish
do exude a fluid which attracts sharks,'
but Torres Straits island natives used to
tell me it was the peculiar noise made by
the Cray when speared under water that
brought the sea-lawyer to his aid. They
described the sound as rapid emanations
from the antenna; on the head —a series
of wireless-calls, in fact —and said that
under water the sound travelled a long
way. “Them shark they proper friend
belong that crayfish! ” I was assured.
“Man he must look out good when he
spear crayfish because the shark come up
quick and go for him.”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Was digging ,in my
garden with, as usual, a pair of peewees
in attendance. A White Leghorn, tempor-
arily escaped from custody, was scratch-
ing in an adjoining bed. Heads cocked
on one side, both peewees eyed the chook
intently for several seconds. Then the
cock-bird, standing firmly on one leg,
slowly pivoted round, dragging the loose
claw through the soil I had turned over.
After some hesitation his spouse followed
suit. They uncovered a few insects and
seemed to think they were on a good
thing. What I want to know is this: Did
they learn the trick from the Leghorn, or
is this sort of amateurish scratching
normal practice with peewees? I thought
I knew the pied fowl fairly well; but have
never before seen that trick tried.
* * * *
TTHE “Service Department’s” answer (B.
14/11/’56) on the pensioning-off of
the old battleship Centurion in 1910
recalls her immediate successor of that
name, completed in 1913, removed from
the effective list in 1926, and thereafter
stripped and used as a radio-controlled
target-ship.
She became alive and more-or-less
kicking again in World War 11. To
deceive the enemy, or someone, she was
endowed with the silhouette of a battle-
ship of the King George V class, in which
guise she could be dangled before the
distant binoculars of Schmidt der Spy.
She was anchored off Bombay when I saw
her from Warspite shortly after Easter,
1942, and a very impressive sight she
looked —at the distance from which the
party to be deceived was supposed to view
her.
The impression was startling on nearer
approach, when, at closer quarters with
Warspite, she modestly shrank to her
proper size and the one double and two
quadruple “Min. turrets” proved to be
almost flapping in the breeze—if an
enemy gunner of that pre-atomic day
had scored a hit on them, their instant
disintegration would surely have been a
sight to shock him into forswearing his
destructive trade and retiring into a
monastery at once.
CLOVISKI MACODOACER.
BERT WILSON’S DAUGHTER
Out of her mother’s fecund 'Warmth,
Thrust anguished upwards into life,
Bert Wilson’s baby daughter was'
Born of Bert Wilson’s wife.
The shimmering rim of the dusty plain
Hovered with heat like a hunting hawk,
And the whitewashed iron of the hospital
roof
Rippled like a tuning-fork.
The myall bushes hung their heads
When Bert came down in the pony-trap,
Bore his wife back to his h'umpy there —
The baby on her lap.
And the gahanised-iron of the hospital
roof
Had courted ten summers with its glinting
wink
When the baby came back in a barefoot
girl
Who listened at night to the spink
Of the cooling iron round her fevered
head,
And tossed and whimpered at walls'and
floor,
And sighed with the soul of the man lying
dead
In the gloom of the room next door.
But in ten more summers of heat and haze
Bert Wilson’s daughter was grown and
wed,
And they brought her back for her
daughter’s birth
To the pain of her childhood bed.
Bert Wilson s daughter was forty-one,
Her children grown up firm of flesh,
And Bert himself long dead and gone
When she came back afresh
To hear the hush of the athel-trees
Wooing the walls when no things move,
Stretching their burning fingers back
From the heat of their iron love.
Two decades more of dust and gleam,
The hospital hunched on the quivering
plain,
Bert Wilson’s daughter of threescore
years
Lay back in her room again.
The crows’-feet crinkled her northern eyes
And trod in the seams of her leather face,
And the rector knelt and borrowed God’s
Great benison of grace.
Her body racked like the land in drought
Was anguished slowly into death,
And the rippling air absorbed and lost
The ripple of her breath.
And so in the room that gave her life
Bert Wilson’s daughter ceased to be,
But the iron roof that winked at her
Now shrugs and winks at me.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.


RECORD dog-families? A man at
Bellerive (Tas.) has an eight-year-old
Smithfield-Collie-cross sheepdog which,
after rounding-up some sheep for her
owner one morning, gave birth to 16 pups,
resuming her sheep-duties an hour later.
In seven litters the mother has produced
82 pups, the family totalling 14 on two
occasions. The owner has been offered
over £lOO for her, but she’s not for sale.
—“Derwent.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: My recently acquired
Fijian housegirl is very proud of the fact
that she is married to a part-European.
She said to me, “He is not black,” rubbing
her own dusky arm, which I think is a
quite pleasant dark-brown, anyway. I
saw him today. He’s not black. Just a
mixture of burnt umber and Prussian-
blue.
* , * * *.
“Villefair”: When a sequence for one
of the early Australian talkies was taken
near Edensor Park (22 miles spu’-west of
Sydney) a lodal identity in the rural dis-
trict was recruited to do a scene in which
a bushman “put a pop” in a couple of big
box-trees. An old-timer at such work,
he didn’t have to act, only be himself. He
was. So, when an auger slipped he com-
mented on it in the language used by
timber-workers at such moments. The
director rushed up, explained about the
sound-track, and ordered a retake. At
the second attempt an unsatisfactory
incident with a fuse brought another
censure and censoring. On the third
attempt, however, things went without
a hitch —until, the fuse set and ready, the
old fellow looked up and grinned: “Well,
I never swore that b time, did I?”
* * * *
“Robbie”: Until the automatic gun
displaced it, the bullock-horn was used
for drenching sheep as well as for
“cupping” (B. 28/11/’56). The tip was
cut from the end of the horn, which was
placed over the back of the animal’s
tongue. ‘ Young shed-hands dashed along
the line with a bucket of drench, ladling
out the right dose into the horn as the
sheep were caught and* passed up from
the pen.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: The lyrics of a Tin Pan
Alley hot-pop tune have corrected a
widely accepted nature-study theory. It
concerns the ways of that quaint crittur,
the kangaroo. The reason why ’roos
jump high is really that they are stimu-
lated by the presence of members of the
opposite sex into displays of strength and
agility. In short, luv is the secret. So
much for the belief held by all you mugs
that the hoppers made bigger and better
bounds because of that silly old thing,
the instinct of self-preservation.
* * * *
“P.L.”: Brought from Wiluna (W.A.)
with a mob of wild bulls, Ferdy got rest-
less, broke from the yards, and chased the
stockmen under near-by railway-trucks
for safety. Caught an elderly sweeper
unawares and badly mauled him.
Cavorting on, he soon had the stage to
himself. Enter a hurriedly called
gendarme, rifle at ready. Approaching
from what he fondly imagined was the
safe side of a fence, and followed at a
respectful distance by a small band of
his salary-contributors, the preserver of
the peace went in for the kill. What
he had failed to notice, but what his Nibs
had observed, was the lack of wire
between the fence-posts. Result: a charge,
a flurry, disappearing citizens and one
policeman up a tree.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: When “Rash” attends his next
fummy-stoush (R. 28/11/’56) he should
watch more closely. He will see two balls
of snarling fury rolling everywhere, all
eight sets of claws at work. No con-
testant will be using his pedals for stand-
ing purposes.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: My nomination in the
Swindle Stakes (B. 28/11/’56) is the game
of “Crow,” popular among old hapds in
south-western Queensland. The only
apparatus needed was a hat, a pencil, and
several pieces of paper, on which
last the names of Australian
birds were written. The names
were drawn fropi the hat on the
understanding that the drawer of
the “crow” would pay for the
drinks. Invariably a stranger
drew “crow,” the others read
their slips and announced
“duck,” “crane,” “emu” and the like.
Sometimes the stranger would play several
rounds at heavy cost before it occurred
to him that each and every slip put into
the hat bore the word “crow.” On an
Australia-Japan liner in 1934 the best
gambler among the passengers, a globe-
trotting American, played until I, who
had introduced it, became conscience-
stricken enough to enlighten him.
* * * *
“Noah”: If ever I have to look for a
job it won’t be that of a powder-monkey,
for I’m sure such men must be instinc-
tively gifted. More than once I’ve been
with mates near the local quarry during
blasting-time, and never yet have we been
in agreement when trying to count the
number of explosions. There can be
minutes between shots; on the other
hand only a keen ear could detect the
separations of two shots exploding almost
simultaneously. For the man concerned,
though, there can be no error ; the reason
why, during his operations, all bow to
him as No. 1 boss.
* * * *
“North Esk”: Mount Olympus, last
point in Tasmania’s Olympic Torch relay,
and thus linked by the flame with
Olympus in Greece, owes its name to
Surveyor-General George Irankland,
who came to Van Diemen’s Land in
1827. Son of a Church dignitary in Eng-
land, he was steeped in the classics, and
when he led a survey-expedition in the
1830’s he transplanted a batch of names
from Greek mythology to the Tasmanian
map. On the summit of a mount 10
"It's a whip-round for Benson — he's marrying the boss's daughter."
miles or so from Lake St. Clair, he and
his friends admired the scenery, gave three
cheers and then the name Mt. Olympus
was conferred on the peak above the great
treeless plateau. This year members of
the Tasmanian division of the Wireless
Institute set up radio-equipment on Mt.
Olympus (with the P.M.G.’s approval) at
the beginning of the Melbourne Games
and, although sunspots created a diver-
sion, managed to make contact with the
Greek Olympus, and received a message
“Hurry up and jump. Me mother's roarin for her harness!"
of “Good luck to Melbourne” which was
duly passed on to the organising com-
mittee. Frankland left a number of other
Greek names in the vicinity, like Ossa,
Pelion, Acropolis and Geryon ; and there
is also a Mt. Byron: but he wouldn’t have
imagined the (Jay when the Greek
Olympus would flash a message through
the ether to the point on which he stood.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: “Fitz,” in his article on
“Scotty the Wrinkler” (B. 7/ 11/’56), made
a royal blue in his reference to “the
inauguration of the Commonwealth by
the then Duke of York in Melbourne on
January 1; 1901.” The proclamation of
the Commonwealth took place in Centen-
nial Park, Sydney, on that date, when the
first Governor-General (the Earl of
Hopetoun) and the first Commonwealth
Ministers were sworn in. The Duke and
Duchess of York, afterwards King
George V and Queen Mary, made their
official landing in Melbourne on May 6,
1901, and the Duke officially opened the
first Federal Parliament in the Exhibition
Building, Melbourne, two days later.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: There were moments
when the Duke showed impatience of
official formality during his brief visit to
Papua-New Guinea, but there was also
plenty of evidence that he enjoyed
himself. In a message to Administrator
Don Cleland, the Duke expressed gratitude
for the “interesting and comprehensive
programme” and sent a special message of
praise to the police and the Pacific Islands
Regiment, whose “smartness and bearing
does them and the peoples of the Territory
great credit.” The Duke added that
the dancers and decorations, the singing
and the display of canoes, the villages and
the district councils have left me with an
impression of a happy, energetic people,
anxious to take advantage of the world’s
material progress without losing sight of
what is best in their own traditions. I
was particularly impressed by the deter-
mined way in which the Administration is
tackling the many problems of education,
health and development.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The virility of the Maori
race is demonstrated by the census taken
this year. Many attribute it to the Social
Security scheme (or, as one native said
to another, “Te Sexual Security scheme;
him all right.”). The Maori population
now totals 137,151, to the non-Maoris’
2,036,911. Till the end of December,
1955, the birthrate of the Maoris was
43.64 per 1000, to the Europeans’ 24.86.
In the year 1857-58 the natives totalled
56,409 and gradually dropped till they
numbered, in 1896, 42,113. Then the tide
turned, and gradually the Maori popula-
tion grew in numbers, and the spurt was
accelerated by Social Security of 10s. per
youngster.
* * * *
“Noah”: Melbourne’s old double-
decker buses have now assumed the role
of two-story caravans. Bought by a
steel-construction firm, they are scattered
over Victoria to house workers erecting
wheat-silos at rail-sidings. They provide
the ideal set-up, with separate dining and
sleeping accommodation. A sensitive
observer might see in one of them a one -
time knight of the road retired to the
serenity of the bush as a fitting reward
for turbulent battles in the metropolitan
peak-hour madness.
* * * *
ONLY one of the flowers in “Maitri’s”
posy (B. 14/11/’56) gets its English
name from a color. Lilac comes to us,
through Spanish* and Arabic, from the
Sanskrit name for the indigo-plant and
the color of the dye obtained from it,
because of a bluish tinge in the flowers
of some lilacs.
Heliotrope is the Greek-derived
equivalent of “turnsol,” another name for
the sweet-scented “cherry-pie” which,
like the sunflowers, turns towards the sun.
(Our Jerusalem-artichoke is a corruption
of the Italian girasole articiocco —“sun-
flower-artichoke.”)
The pink is not named from its color,
but from the “pinked” edges of its petals,
like the small pointed scallops made by
dressmakers with their pinking-scissors.
The brown-pink, Dutch-pink and Italian-
pink used by artists are not tints of red,
but of yellow or yellow-green.
“Rose,” in slightly varying forms, was
used in all the Indo-European languages,
for many species of different colors, long
before the adjective “rose-colored” or its
equivalent.
I have heard a legend, which I have not
verified, that speaks of Sweet William,
with his posy of pinks, as the hero of an
old English ballad. Sweet John, another
near-relative, is so called to distinguish
it from Sweet William.
Although “forget-me-not” for Myosotis
palustris has had its equivalent in nearly
every European language, it was not till
the beginning of the 19th century that the
English and the French adopted it: the
forget-me-not of the old English herbals
was another humble garden-plant, the
ground-pine, and in parts of England and
Scotland one of the veronicas also is
called forget-me-not.
MOTUKU.
PRICKLY MOSES
Prickly Moses has ended old-
Fashioned Winter’s outmoded stay,
Sweeps and swishes him on his way
With brooms and brushes of dusty gold.
Warming the bush with bright wild-fires,
The smoky scent of it better than roses
(And as well defended) Prickly Moses
Soars and sinks and again aspires.
Gold of a harvest none may hold.
For who would be gleaning a sheaf of
honey-
Colored fuzz-balls with far too many
Hundreds of needles and pins, all told ?
Down the gully and up the track,
Bearing banners on pliant poles,
Yellow pennons around the boles
That old bushfires have painted black:
Under the ragged-barked rusty trees,
Knee-deep, knee-deep in a downy
smother,
Prickly Moses keeps yet another
One of his Golden Jubilees.
One out of thousands, one supposes . . .
Come to the ends of the earth with me,
Come to the Dandenongs and see
Those endless acres of Prickly Moses.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


a--.
mi
m
n
M£z
m
rr/-*\\uj
V.»*j
ISlSjfcMikJS UGIST(M»
MH *"wnrr
SL iL«?°H Bleivd
MW—■»■ WKisicy
r Q f tKe rr.
Cellar
Recipe
1746
1742
§§s
gftf t.x p fe'2 >M roIJH ttai
ftm
«js?isir -1 •**
LTD.
1,4 IQX99W
•Tri, l ,, ™BT«sTsi , i)u» « «K"“
R 35
WHITE HORSE
°f
course
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
Business. Rollery, ETC
Vigorously Selective
r T''HE sharemarkets of Australia
are closing with good
second-line industrials (such as
Bradford Cotton, Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Australian
Woollen Mills, F. J. Walker, J.
Gadsden and Gadsden-Hughes)
showing yields of between 6 p.c.
and 7 p.c.
A.C.1., C.S.R., Masonite and
8.H.P., in the front row, are
yielding about p.c. to 5 p.c.
—others sometimes less.
The share-list remains highly
interesting—full of promise, but
with plenty of traps. Disappoint-
ments are not confined to the
mining section, in which fingers
have been burned and will
continue to be burned. Paccal
(Petroleum and Chemical) has
been one of the worst industrial
disappointments of the year.
But there is any amount of
support available for stocks with
present high earning-power and
scope for expansion. As a result
of this the market for 1957
promises to open on a vigorously
selective note.
I.M.F. Ai v cT to Sterling
TJRITAIN will be permitted to
make an immediate with-
drawal of $561 million from the
International Monetary Fund in
order to support sterling in
the present crisis caused by
Suez, trade problems and
speculation in the £. The U.K.
may buy for sterling a further
$738 million in foreign curren-
cies over the next 12 months.
Per facobsson, managing-
director of the fund, said that a
state of equilibrium had almost
been achieved in Britain before
lb- pressure on sterling began
in July. Credit-restrictions were
then beginning to show good
results, price-inflation had been
checked, and exports, including
those to dollar markets, had
grown to record levels.
The U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Harold Macmillan,
has pointed out that Britain’s
trading position is now com-
paratively strong; but during
November there was a specu-
lative flight from sterling that
reduced Britain’s gold reserves by
$279 million, shrinking them to
$1965 million.
The U.K. request to the
U.S.A. and Canada for relief
from current interest-payments
on dollar debts has not yet been
answered, and there is still a
good deal of sorting-out to be
done in respect of Anglo-
American relations’, at the
economic as well as political
levels. However, the promptness
with which the International
Monetary Fund made Britain’s
$561 million available makes it
clear that there was no obstruc-
tion there on the part of the
United States.
It is expected that the United
States will sanction a large dollar
loan from the Export-Import
Bank in order to ease the strain
which purchases of oil from -
America will impose on sterling.
Inflation and Productivity
nrHOUGH the potato-famine in
eastern Australia is now a
thing of the past, and new-
season’s spuds may be
bought from roadside stalls
near Sydney at sd. a pound,
a number of other house-
hold commo,dities have edged-up
in price, often as a direct result
of the last increase in the basic
wage (up 11s. in N.S.W.).
There has. also been an easing
in the tightness of money because
of the improved export position.
This will tend to offset the anti-
inflationary effect of credit-
restrictions. On the other
hand, if import policy is revised,
as a result of the favorable trade-
balance, they may be a more
abundant supply of overseas
goods to keep Australian prices
more competitive.
The factor most essential to
more stable prices in Aus-
tralia —greater productivity per
employed person—is not yet in
evidence as a general thing.
There has been improvement in
some industries without a doubt
—and essential industries at that
—but a much more co-ordinated
effort is needed before we reach
that position which W. S.
Robinson, formerly of the Zinc
Corporation, envisages where we
will have such an abundant and
vigorous national production that
we need not fear some accom-
paniment of inflation.
State transport-systems require
to be a great deal more efficient
than they are now before we
can have any sort of real
industrial expansion, with or
without inflation.
In short, in order to have great
industrial expansion you must
have considerable overall effi-
ciency.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
*OEMARKABLE, in some
mines, how prospectus
values shrink the more a mine
is opened up!
It’s an old, old story; but in
the case of Northern Hercules,
N.L., the shareholders’ loss is
bigger than usual, and the rate
at which it has been lost is also
exceptional even if not an
Olympic or world record.
Something like £lf million has
been sunk in the mine since
May, 1954. Shareholders can
hardly expect more than a frac-
tion of it back on latest reports.
The prospectus spoke of
values going 37.2dwt. and said
that “the profit on ore already
amply indicated by development
and diamond-drilling, to a
maximum depth of only 350 ft.,
is estimated at over £1,000,000,
or well in excess of subscribed
capital.”
Development was slow and
excessively costly, and values
were lower than expected. An
expensive but apparently efficient
plant was installed.
Now, after making a special
levy on shareholders to carry on,
the directors say that continua-
tion of development as planned
is no longer warranted. Grade of
ore lower in the mine is now
set at 17.5dwt., which out near
Pine Creek in the N.T. won’t
cover expenses.
The board recommends mining
and treating whatever ore has
been developed, and after that,
apparently, to hope for some-
thing to turn up.
A call of 6d. a share is being
made to carry out the board’s
latest plans. The 11s. scrip is
at about 6d. on ’Change.
Arabian Oil and Europe
A DDRESSING the Chicago
Executives’ Club on Nov. 16,
Howard W. Page, a director of
the Standard Oil Company (New
Jersey), said that the Middle East
is important, above all, because
it is the greatest single source
of energy to supply the growing
energy demands of the entire
Eastern Hemisphere outside the
Iron Curtain.
The rate of increase in the
need for energy in Western
Europe has been more than 5
p.c. a year during the post-war
period. A conservative estimate
for the next 10 years is almost
3 p.c. a year. At the same time
European coal-production—and
coal is the principal source of
energy in Europe—has probably
already reached its peak. In any
case, only minor production-
increases are possible, and these
only with the expenditure of
excessive amourits of capital and
manpower. Hydroelectric power
will increase but slightly, and
atomic energy will hardly scratch
the surface during the next 10
years.
Oil, therefore, is Western
Europe’s only appreciable source
of energy to meet the expanding
needs over the coming decade.
And the Middle East is the one
area where the tremendous
additional volume required can
be developed economically.
Mr. Page said that, principally
to meet this demand, oil-
production in the Middle East
was, before the Suez trouble,
averaging about 3,700,000 barrels
a day. This was about a quarter
of the free-world production,
and compares with about
7,000,000 barrels a day for the
whole United States. Of this
Middle East production, 43 p,c.
was moving through the Suez
Canal and 23 p.c. by inter-
national pipelines to the eastern
Mediterranean. Ten years from
now, given peace, stability and
confidence in the Middle East,
the production there will be
almost double the present level.
Without the oil of the Middle
East, said Mr. Page, the Eastern
Hemisphere could certainly
survive, but it would do so at a
very great reduction in its
standard of living. Then Europe,
as well as the Middle East, would
be weakened and disaffected and
would be a sitting duck for
Communist infiltration and
gradual absorption. Direct
military aggression would
probably not be needed for the
Soviets to take over America’s
European and Asian allies and
leave it friendless in a hostile
world.
The beneficial effects of the
Marshall Plan, in the opinion of
Mr. Page, were minor when
compared with the potential
benefits to Western Europe if its
growing energy needs are
supplied economically by Middle
East oil, under conditions of
security and confidence.
Mr. Page pointed out,
though having a population of
only about 250,000, is the third-
largest oil-producing country in
the world—after the United
States and Venezuela. Its income
from oil (about 97 p.c. of its
total income) is around 300
million dollars annually. Per
head of population, this oil
income is about 10 times the
per-capita income from all
sources in Egypt.
Large production and
tremendous proven and
potential reserves of oil exist in
Iran, Irak, Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia. But the countries
through which the large pipe-
lines move oil to the eastern
Mediterranean ports Syria,
Jordan and Lebanon —have no
commercial oil-production as yet.
They derive revenue from the
pipeline operations, but this- is
small compared with what the
oil-producing countries get out
of it all.
Sangara (Holdings), Ltd.
PRODUCTION of rubber by
Sangara Plantation and
Development Co., Ltd., Popon-
detta, Papua, was 401,5801 b. for
the 10 months to October 31.
This was about 32,0001 b. more
than for the whole of the previous
year. Cocoa plantations have
not been so productive. But the
co. looks like becoming a
successful rubber-grower in time,
provided plantation-development
eventually matches -up with
ca*pital. Planting with high-
yielding rubber-trees is con-
tinuing and being charged to
revenue.
Meetings of critical share-
holders have been held in
Sydney and Melbourne recently,
and a party of shareholders out-
side of the board is to visit the
plantations and make a report.
The co. has been in existence
for about 16 years, but the
Japanese occupation and a post-
war volcanic eruption interfered
with development.
The directors of Sangara now
have an opportunity of turning
an unsatisfactory background
into a more pleasing future
prospect. Once ord. dividends
are being paid (only the prefs.
have received anything so far)
it would be timely tfo revise the
articles of association (if 'neces-
sary) and seek listing of the
shares on the mainland Stock
Exchanges. At present there is
only an unofficial market for the
scrip in Port Moresby.
The Canning Basin
[From L. Owen]
AS Dr. Raggatt surmises (B.
12/12/’56), I draw most of
my information with reference to
the oil activities of the Depart-
ment of National Development
from such press-releases by that
body as the more responsible
newspapers care to publish.
That is, usually, the only easily
available source.
With reference to the Canning
Basin, however, I collected the
basic facts from a Sunday-paper
“feature,” which named the
seven participants in the
expedition, quoted state-
ments made by them and repro-
duced one of the photographs
taken by them. If such an
article —now more than a month
old—contained misleading data,
the remedy lay with Dr. Raggatt
before charging me, or any other
commentator, with misinter-
pretation and “gross overstate-
ment.”
In any case, I was not foolish
enough to suggest that a small
party of seven, during a ground-
survey, could cover, physically,
an area of 200,000 square miles,
largely desert. I intended to
convey that the party —far too
optimistically in only six months
of ground work —was attempt-
ing an interpretation of the
geology of a structure whose
total area is estimated to be
200,000 square miles.
In the newspaper version of
the Minister’s press-release of
November 2, there is no mention
of Dr. Raggatt’s figure of 30,000
square miles, which, in itself, is
a tremendous area to expect a
{Continued on next page)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS x
dsmjJVAjr
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR CAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURB
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESBEB
Telegrams and Cables v
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
n
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
This Christmas give a
GIFT CHEQUE
+
m
■<v V
I
wm
m
mm
i
m
W
*EA*
2i
] im
*r
m m
U/V
-S'
T’V'
rf< A
„ c>> WJp
1 ",
s&?£«
Choosing a gift is usually difficult. One so rarely knows
just what gift will be welcome. And although money is
always a useful present, plain cash (or an ordinary cheque)
is not a very glamorous thing either to give or to receive.
A Bank of New South Wales Gift Cheque is the answer.
Designed by a leading artist, the Christmas Gift Cheque
combines a beautiful greetings card with a personal cheque
illustrated with flowers and trees long associated with
Christmas. It is a delightful gift.
Anyone can give a GIFT CHEQUE. No matter where
you bank (or even if you have no bank account at all) you
may obtain GIFT CHEQUES at any branch of the Bank
of New South Wales. Cost is only 1/3 d. (including stamp
duty) plus the amount of the cheque.
The GIFT CHEQUE, signed by you and made out for
any amount you provide, is printed in full colour. In
addition to the Christmas greeting card illustrated above,
there are attractive designs for Birthday, Wedding, and
General Purposes GIFT CHEQUES.
This Christmas, and for gift occasions all through the
year.
Give
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
GIFT CHEQUES
Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A5631C
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
party, constituted as the third
Canning Basin group was, to
cover efficiently.
Also, this is the first time, so
far as I know, that the 10,000
road-miles have been stated to
include the highway journey
from Perth to Roy Hill and back.
The use by the department of
this figure without definition or
qualification is completely mis-
leading. Even the figure of
1150 miles, which Dr. Rag-
gatt now quotes for the
actual geological traverses, does
not, on critical analysis, make
the work appear unhurried.
I do not blame the field-
party for this; they probably
did all they could in the circum-
stances.
The final paragraph of Dr.
Raggatt’s letter has no relevance
to my Canning Basin article.
Dr. Frank Reeves is an oil-
geologist of standing and long
experience, and is the author of
one of the best general
summaries on “Australian Oil
Possibilities” (Bulletin of the
American Association of
Petroleum Geologists, Decem-
ber, 1951) available to the public.
In a footnote to that article he
states: “This article is based
on four years of field work in
Australia combined with a
review of published and unpub-
lished geological literature.” It
is a great pity that he did not
personally do field-work in the
Carnarvon Basin, as I feel little
doubt that, on the ground, he
would have modified many of
the more enthusiastic interpreta-
tions of the outcrop evidence
which he records in his A.A.P.G.
paper.
Landan airmail
From Herbert Holman
SOME weeks ago, before the
Egyptian landings, U.K.
industry seemed to be steeling
itself for a clash with organised
labor over wage-claims. More
than six-million workers were —
and still are—lining-up for pay-
increases amounting to £250
million a year.
It was expected that the
employers would, in most
instances, flatly reject the claims.
The engineering employers did
so, in response to the unions’
demand for a 10 per cent,
increase for three million
workers; and, previously, the
Transport Commission rejected
the demand of 85,000 railway
footplatemen for a 15 per cent,
increase. Meanwhile, the Coal
Board is involved in uneasy and
protracted negotiations over
bonus shift-payments to miners.
To give way might encourage
absenteeism, while to stand firm
might lead to unrest and so-
called “industrial action.”
Petrol-rationing is already
having serious effect, particularly
in the motor industry. In the
Coventry district there are fears
that as many as 20,000 car-
workers may have to go on
short-time. The Ford Motor
Company at Dagenham has,
unlike other .manufacturers,
maintained sales despite the
credit - squeeze ; but now,
because of rationing, some of its
37,000 workers are faced with
redundancy.
Although other sections of
industry are booming—notably
%•
shipbuilding and heavy engineer-
ing—a cut in fuel-oil could easily
cause widespread distress, if
somewhat less drastic than that
which threatens car-operatives.
Guaranteed overtime has come
to be taken for granted as
“going with the job,” and hire-
purchase commitments tend to
leave workers with no margin
of cash to meet adversity.
If the probable outcome is
imponderable it is a reasonable
“For me? Oh, goody! What's in it?”
assumption that the gravity of
the situation will have a chasten-
ing effect upon all concerned.
The union-leaders have learned
that the allegiance of their
members is anything but blind,
especially when jobs and pay-
packets are threatened. Many of
the workers are sympathetic
towards the Government’s stand
in the Middle East. And the
employers are desperately
anxious to avoid trouble.
What will probably happen is,
at best, a “holding operation”
until things have tided over or,
at worst, something in nature
of concessionary increases.
Political Patches
The division in the Conserva-
tive party is the most serious
since 1940, when “Chamber-
lainism” was the issue. So far,
Butler, Macmillan and Head
have cleverly, if oracularly,
managed to assuage both dissi-
dents and supporters by seem-
ing to be all things to all men.
The “Suez group” numbers no
more than 40 in nucleus and its
Blimpish attributes are not
normally conducive to a rush
of converts. That a further 60
back-benchers should have
joined forces shows the strength
of feeling. But their resolution
deploring America’s failure to
act is not held to be happily (Con-
ceived. Anti-Americanism, now
in danger of catching on, won’t
help us at all. Even less will
similar acts of pique, resulting
from living in the past, when
Britain was mightier than she is
now. Yet how sad is the reflec-
tion that while Drake, playing
from weakness, could singe the
Spanish King’s beard, Eden,
incomparably stronger, was
restrained from even tweaking
Nasser’s nose.
'Employees of Middle East oil
companies are arriving. here on
leave. They say that the
blowing-up of the pumping-
stations was a carefully prepared
and executed job that was
beyond the capacity of the
Syrian army and that the chief
saboteurs were, in fact, Czech-
speaking.
Despite the depression on the
Stock Exchange, with new
“lows” for the indexes, heavy
losses for speculators and one
“hammering,” there are several
important new issues pending.
Chief of these is the 1.C.1.’s 5}
per cent, convertible unsecured
loan, 1977-79, which will be
offered to ordinary stockholders
and employees at £96 per cent.
It is for £4O million, a record.
The “Financial Times” is to be
applauded for its optimism and
practical sense. When Nasser
sank his block-ships it said, in
effect, “scrap the canal and build
100,000-ton atomic super-
tankers.” Now, while acknow-
ledging that Britain is no longer
a first-class Power, it is all for
making her one —not militarily
but economically. How? By
cutting the defence bill and by
an all-out industrial drive involv-
ing revolutionary, if realistic and
financially orthodox, Govern-
mental attitudes.
The Musical Comedy
ALTHOUGH Broadway still
commands Drury Lane and
the Coliseum (also, temporarily,
the Stoll), the American hege-
mony over the lighter musical
stage is less absolute than it was.
There are three reasons for this.
The public may already have
reacted against the second-hand
being foisted upon it, against
topical allusions above its head
(“Call Me Madam”) and against
an idiom beyond its comprehen-
sion (“Guys and Dolls”). All the
importations have not been con-
sistently brilliant (the latest,
“Fanny,” has been poorly
received). And. British writers,
composers and impresarios are
strenuously on the offensive.
For, though production costs are
stupendous, the rewards for a
long run are no less considerable.
“Grab Me a Gondola” (Lyric,
Hammersmith) has started well
and is claimed as an immediate
hit, with special appeal to the
younger theatregoers. The
reception on the second night
was certainly boisterous and
genuine, and the players were
obviously inspired, with glad
hearts and eager vitality, by the
audience’s reaction. Such an
occurrence is rare in our modern
theatre and sufficient tribute to
the success of Julian More and
James Gilbert, who together
wrote the lyrics and, separately
and respectively, the book and
music.
What they have done is to
compile an “old-fashioned”
musical-comedy of the ’twenties
or ’thirties, substituting Venice
for Monte Carlo and intro-
ducing plenty of comedy and
romance. The Navy, show-
columnists of the popular press,
film-stars and -starlets and
natives (a princely “wolf” and a
Latinesque but kindly pensione
couple) are thrown together in a
film festival.
Virginia Jones, the blonde
“sexport,” who wants to play
Portia, is mainly out-of-Dors but
by no means without Grace.
Others to cross her path are her
manager, a columnist and his
fiancee, the “wolf” and a film-
struck naval officer. The plot is
engagingly absurd and the
“book” is rich in gags, modern
in allusion if not in character.
The music, ranging from the
sorrowful-sentimental to the
uproarious rock-’n’-roll, is
neither catchy nor distinguish-
able, and sometimes drowns the
quite witty lyrics. Joan Heal
brings gusto and a nice sense
of burlesque to the blonde
though she might, as so blatant
a public figure, be more self-
important. Denis Quilley does
very well as the columnist whose
neglected fiancee (Jane Wenham)
is rather too mature for the
ingenuousness of the situations.
All the rest play with relish,
poise and vigor. An assured
success if, perhaps, only on the
home market.
Brecht in Sloane Square
And a most incongruous
venue, even when under the
auspices of the English Stage
Company at the Royal Court
Theatre. The play—“ The Good
Woman of Setzuan” —is simply
agit.-prop., largely the former.
For it reveals itself clearly,
almost nakedly, as the brain-
child of an intellectual man-of-
the-theatre who was writing for
a highly emotional audience of
low intelligence and little sophis-
tication. The alternations
between the simple goodness of
the prostitute, Shen Te, upon
whom everybody imposes, and
the cruel purposefulness of her
“cousin,” Shui Ta, leave the
feelings cold as the wintry square
outside. But the play is quaintly
interesting because both parts
are played by Peggy Ashcroft,
the one tenderly and the other
with the right degree of stylism.


M\ I time Service
m
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR40.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
—
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has, since its inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to
the provision of prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor t
Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
★ It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
★ It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
★ It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
★ Its charges are fixed and moderate.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.S., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell,
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.B,
K.8.E., C.W.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffar; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Bitumen & Oil Refineries (Aust.)
'T'HE upward trend of Bitumen and Oil
Refineries’ earnings was brought to
a halt last term, rising tanker freights,
higher taxes and increased wage-rates
claiming a larger share of the slightly
improved income. In the first six years
after the 10-year-old' co. got on to a
full productive and profit-earning basis,
net profit jumped from £231,301' to
£515,098, and, despite a 9.5 p.c. drop
during the year to June 30 last, “Boral”
has earned the reputation of a healthy
profit-winner.
The co. got under way in 1946 with a
paid capital of £1,250,000, a one-for-
five bonus in 1955 (from revaluation of
fixed assets), and a par issue in the samq
year, lifting total paid-up capital to
£2,000,000. California Texas Corpora-
tion holds 40 p.c. of the scrip.
It was originally intended that the oil-
refinery, at Matraville (Sydney), would
produce mainly bitumen, but shortly after
production commenced, in 1948, it was
found more profitable to manufacture
a greater variety of refined products
including motor- and aviation-fuel,
diesel distillates, etc. Crude-oil is
obtained under long-term contracts with
California Texas and Anglo-Iranian.
A subsidiary, W. B. Carr Constructions
Pty. (formerly California Asphalt Pro-
ducts), uses a portion of the parent’s
bitumen production in construction work
undertaken in the eastern States. A small
refinery near Brisbane is operated by the
wholly-owned Queensland Oil Refineries
Pty. Sales of bitumen in Queensland were
affected last term by wet weather which
delayed road-construction work.
Production and turnover are not dis-
closed by the co., but the capacity of the
Matraville refinery is being raised from
10,000 to 15,000 barrels a day by the end
of 1957. Contracts have been made for
the disposal of the increased output.
Earlier plans for extensions to the Bris-
bane refinery were shelved in favor of
the Matraville project, and a £1,000,000
offering of redeemable prefs.. proposed
late last term was cut down to a £500,000
issue, which, with a £500,000 debenture
loan, will provide enough funds for the
new programme.
A second crude distillation-plant went
into service half-way through last term,
and both production and sales showed
some improvement, but after a substan-
tially increased charge for depreciation
(up £77,724 to £203,591) and a £338,050
(up £31,445) provision for taxation, net
profit fell by £49,387 to £465,711:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re- '
June Profit. , Dividend serves. serves, f
30, £ ''jj>
1952. .367,723 15 p.c. = 187,500 180,223 ). QQK
Intangibles written off, £423 ..) 3d0,4b„
1953. .370,704 15 p.c. = 187,500 183,204 518,657
1954. .473,478 15 „ ~187,500 285,978 804,635
Profit sale land, £2725 .. .. 807,360
Prelim, expenses written-off, £4842.. 802,518
1955. .515,098 15 p.e. =243,750 271,348 1,073,866
1956. .465,711 15 „ „ 300,000 165,711 1,239,677
t Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’55.
A 15 p.c. div. was declared for the fifth,
successive year, earnings representing
23.2 p.c. on capital compared with
31.6, 37.8, 29.6 and 29.4 p.c. back
to 1952.
Although largely earmarked for capital-
expenditure, proceeds from the debenture
loan and pref. issue should improve the
liquid position, which at June 30 last was
rather tight, current assets exceeding
current liabilities by only £200,557:
1954. 1955 1956
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 804,635 1,073,866 1,239,577
Debentures .. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Creditors . . .. 797,472 607,448 2,089,622
Tax provision .. 284,350 309,204 342,964
Final div. .. 93,750 150,000 150,000
£3,730,207 £4,640,518 £6,322,163
Land, refinery, etc. 1,421,552 2,675,185 3,239,020
Shares .. .. 100,000 200,000 300,000
Stocks .. .. 637,902 877,298 1,449,645
Debtors .. .. 736,392 846,880 1,289,530
Cash, etc... 831,504 41,155 43,968
Intangibles .. 2,867
£8,730,207 £4,640,518 £6,322,163
Most of the big increase in creditors (up
£1,482,174) was due at “future dates”
under letters-of-credit relating to crude
already received, while dew plant was
responsible for the bulk of the £563,835
added to the value of fixed assets.
Debtors (up £442,650) were slower to pay,
increasing by over 50 p.c.
Boral put-up £200,000 of the original
Petroleum and Chemical Corp. capital,
and the £lOO,OOO increase in investments
would appear to represent the 1955 issue
by that co. There has been no div. from
Paccal yet. It is having plant problems.
In the current term both tanker
freights and wage-rates have been
increased, and, although sales have been
“well maintained” and the refinery is
operating at full capacity, little improve-
ment in earnings can be expected before
plant-extensions are completed late in
1957.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 325. 5d., and at 465. 9d. return
6.4 p.c. from a 15 p.c. distribution.
Australian Blue Metal, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS who gained an
interest in Australian Blue Metal in
the 1952 placement have shown a good
return on their money. In four years
they have had dividends aggregating 47£
p.c. and participated in a one-for-four
par issue of the co.’s scrip. In the market
the shares, which cost 255. in 1952, now
stand at 41s.
A significant degree of recent develop-
ment has been financed by turning back
profits. Since 1951, 49.5 p.c. of all
disclosed earnings have been put back
into the business for this purpose, a
process which accounts largely for the
strength shown in profit ratios over the
last few terms: 26.7 p.c. (1956), 29.3 p.c.
(1955), 21.5 p.c. (1954) and 18 p.c. (1953).
The business was begun in West Aus-
tralia by the O’Neil family about 26 years
ago. In 1939 the first rock was quarried
in N.S.W. at St. Marys (near Sydney),
and, later, operations were extended to
Broken Hill. The co. had also set up as
general contractors and earthmovers.
The present co. was formed to draw
together the various activities, and after
the share-placement which followed in
1952 it became a public concern. Paid
capital w&s then £500,000.
Early last term it announced that it
had bought all the issued capital of Diesel
Motors Pty., Ltd., for 100,000 f.-p. £1
shares in A.B.M. This co. was Australian
representative for Foden trucks, and, in
W.A., it also had the agencies for
Gardner diesel-engines, Rolls-Royce and
Bentley cars and Mercedes-Benz and
Renault cars and trucks. Net tangible
assets of the business on June 30, 1955,
amounted to £180,260.
Last term the new offshoot acquired
the Mercedes-Benz agency for Queens-
land and the Northern Territory and the
franchise for the German Porsche sports-
car in N.S.W. Sales of trucks, cars and
spares were over £1,000,000.
Large contracts of an unspecified nature
were carried out in S.A., and at Thud-
dungra (N.S.W.) the co. began working
old mining leases for magnesite for the
steel industry. In this State especially the
demand for blue-metal for roadmaking
and building-projects and the Federal
Government’s £25-million munitions
plant at St. Marys helped to make turn-
over for the business in 1956 a record.
After allowing £83,390 (up £13,390) for
depreciation and £138,600 (up £49,100)
net profit was written £53,873 stronger
at £200,405:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f —Dividends—\ serves, serves.*
£, £ £ £,
1953.. 90,095 10 p.c. = 50,000 40,095 93,595
1954.. 107,981 10 „ „ 50,000 57,981 151,576
1955.. 146,532 12i „ ~ 62,500 84,032 235,608
Added on consolidation, £10,217 .. 245,825
Pre-acquisition profits, £35,000 .. 280,825
Prelim, expenses written-off, £1648 .. 279,177
1956.. 200,405 15 p.c. =112,500 87,905 367,082
* Subject to intangibles, £36,072, which disappeared
fe ' in 1966.
Shareholders’ dividends, raised 2% p.c. to
15 p.c., took more of the year’s earnings,
which might indicate that the pace of
growth is expected to be slower in future.
On capital increased during the year to
£750,000 the £200,405 was equal to 26.7
p.c., down a little on 1955, though the
big new electric shovel and roller-bearing
crusher installed at the Gosnells (W.A.)
quarry were in operation only over the
later stages of the term.
The Diesel Motors purchase accounted
for most of the growth in balance-sheet
figures:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955 1956
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £760,000
Reserves .. 151.676 235,608 367,082
Overdraft .. 98,312 77,318 42,288
Creditors .. 82,600 122,982 174,254
Tax provision .. 64,305 90,053 187,656
Dividends .. 50,000 62,500 112,500
£946,793 £1,088,461 £1,683,780
Freehold, etc. .. 33,199 42,479 156,041
Plant, etc. .. 594,940 718,893 863,336
Stock .. . . 48,165 52,043 264,206
Debtors .. .. 233,014 238,503 309,541
Cash .... 233 471 666
Intangibles .. 37,242 36,072
£946,793 £1,088,461 £1,588,780
When the books closed working capital
amounted to £107,705.
At the current price of 41s. 6d. the £1
shares return 7.2 p.c. on the basis of a
15 p.c. div. Net asset support is 295. 9d.
a share.
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.
rvURING the last financial year 75,536
homes were completed in Australia,
4302 fewer than in the previous year, and
at September 30 last homes were
under construction, compared with 65,542
twelve months earlier. Affected by this
decline in homebuilding, the net earnings
of the R. B. Davies organisation, which
claims to be the largest manufacturer of
builders’ hardware in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, fell by 14.6 p.c. over the term
ended June 30 last.
Originally an importer, R. B. Davies
commenced the manufacture of builders’
hardware in 1929, the public obtaining
an interest when the Sydney-based hold-
ing co., R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd., was
formed in 1950. Parent, 11 subsidiary
cos. (eight in N.S.W., three in Vic.) and
the associated Yorkshire Fittings (Aust.)
Pty., in which a 49 p.c. interest is held,
make up the group. The subsidiary cos.
are:
R. B. Davies Pty. R. B. Davies (Plastic)
R. B. Davies (Export) Pty.
Bristows Pty. Consolidated Hi-lift
Victor Motor Co. Pty., Hoists Pty.
W. H. Wells Pty. Daw Pty.
M. Persin, Etd. Wells (Export) Pty.
R. B. Davies
(Trading) Pty.
An extensive range of builders’-hardware
is manufactured by the group, which also
tums-out electric hoists and cranes,
machine-tools and kitchenware, while one
small subsidiary trades as a metal mer-
chant. The export cos. have arranged
distribution facilities in the West Indies,
Africa, New Zealand, the Pacific Islands
and parts of Asia.
The co. raised £130,315 in 1953 with a
one-for-four par-issue, paid capital
reaching its present total of £701,682 in
1955, when 50,000 £1 ords. were issued in
exchange for the capital of M. Persin,
Ltd., kitchenware manufacturer, of Mel-
bourne. In November of the same year
additional finance was obtained, £200,000
coming-in from the issue of 7 p.c. un-
secured notes with a currency of s£-7
years.
Yorkshire Fittings is now on a profit-
earning basis, and its first contribution to
group earnings, a 5 p.c. div. on the
£147,000 investment, will be received in
the current term.
Higher co.-tax, and,‘with the fall in
demand, cautious ordering by wholesalers,
helped to push earnings down, last term’s
net profit dropping by £12,376 to £72,214
after deducting outside shareholders’ in-
terests, providing £46,652 (up £2078) for
taxation and charging an unstated amount
for depreciation:
Consolidated Figures.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 59,816 8 p.c. = 41,709 15,607 56,241
From tax reserve, £2844 .. •• 59,085
1952.. 49,129 8 p.c. = 41,709 7.420 66,605
Added reserves, £18,590, .. .. 80,095
Written-off intangibles, £B5OO ... 76,595
1953.. 59,768 8 p.c. = 45,185 14,583 91,178
Written-off intangibles, £5OOO .. 86,178
1954.. 78,109 8 p.c. = 52,135 25,974 112,152
M. Persin reserve-adjustments, £49,578 161,780
Written-off intangibles, £5OOO .. 156,780
1955.. 84,590 8 p.c. = 53,136 31,455 188,185
Written-off intangibles, £5091 .. 183,094
Adjustment, goodwill on consolida-
tion, £5OOO 188,094
1956.. 72,214. 8 p.c. = 56,135 16,079 204,173
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (£47,384 at SO/6/’56).
The 8 p.c. div., unaltered since conver-
sion to a public co., was repeated, earnings
showing a return of 10.3 p.c. on paid
capital, compared with 12.1, 12, 10.5 and
9.4 p.c. back to 1952.
One of the objects of the note-issue
made during the term was the reduction
of the overdraft, and the balance-sheet
shows a £118,683 drop in the amount
owing to the bank:
Consolidated Figures.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £651,682 £701,682 £701,682
P.TndT account 1 ' ll2 - 152 188 ' 185 20U73
Outside interests.. 75,500 75,500. <5,500
Notes .. ~ - 201,167
Overdraft, etc. ~ 197,947 343,356 224,673
Creditors . . .. 97,149 136,658 121,125
Taxation provision 38,711 44,574 46,652
Final dividends .. 52,135 53,135 56,135
£1,225,276 £1,543,090 £1,631,107
Freeholds, plant
and machinery 443,371 553,581 564,010
Yorkshire shares.. 147,000 147,000 147,000
Yorkshire loan .. 18,048 10,541 11,940
Stocks .. .. 490,903 617,633 680,137
Debtors .. .. 100,167 169,435 179,796
Cash .. .. 1,698 3,210 840
Intangibles .. 24,089 41,690 47,884
£1,225,276 £1,543,090 £1,631,107
Stocks (up £62,504) increased with the
slower turnover and, after a big jump in
the previous year, there was £15,533 less
owing to creditors.
Wi(h home-building limited by a lack
of finance, and rising costs still the order
of the day, the current term promises to
be no easier than the last, although
some benefit will be received from the
promising Yorkshire Fittings investment.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 245. 5d., and at 19s. 3d.
return 8.3 p.c. from an 8 p.c. distribution.
Consolidated Finance Corp., Ltd.
the past twelve months the
market has treated hire-purchase
scrip with a fair amount of caution, and
even a burst of quite satisfactory annual
accounts has failed to produce the rate of
recovery displayed by other scrip in
recent months.
The agreement under which hire-
purchase cos. undertook to limit expan-
sion and repayment-periods expired on
June 30, ’56, and in the three months to
Sept. 30 the amount owing to finance-
cos. under h.-p. agreements rose by
£6,428,000 (to £215,765,000), compared
with an increase of £28,010,000 in the
preceding twelve months.
Recent State legislation providing for
stamp-duty on agreements and, in
N.S.W., for limitation of interest-rates
should have little effect on the earnings
of the leading h.-p. cos., which are more
likely to be concerned by the lower
motor-vehicle and appliance sales that


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - - - BU 8445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
m
sv
LIFE ASSURANCE
'e tv ice
FOR
nm
SUV9A
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
MEIBOPOUTAN UFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
•NC.IM fIUHB atl4
The Metropolitan Building:, Hunter & Blig:h Streets, Sydney*
Faitfi in the
Future
Christmas time! And each of us will have his
seasonal recollections, his own way of celebrating
the festival.
My own thoughts, on Christmas Eve, go back
to the night when Christ was bom. I have tried to
imagine it.
It must have been very much like other nights
—perhaps a wretched night for shepherds on the
cold Judean hills. Certainly it was a starry night.
What power it held! From its brief hours men
were to count the centuries. From this one night
would flow the ages in which the Christian
message would be borne across the world to
influence the minds and order the conduct of
people to be numbered in their thousands of
millions.- From a dark stable would come the
Light that would flood whole civilisations.
To the Christian, the birth of the Redeemer
—companion as it is to the events of Easter—is
history’s most stupendous fact. St. Luke, the
physician, the meticulous recorder, points it for
us exactly in Time:
“In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius
Caesar, Pontius Pilate being Governor of Judea,
the word of the Lord came to John (the Baptist),
the son of Zachary, in the desert.”
And Luke goes on to name the tetrarchs and
high priests serving at the time.
The Night, as a fact, is well attested; as is
the continuing Day to which it was eve.
The years crowd on, marked by the wisdom
and follies, the spiritual strengths and human
weaknesses of mankind. The centuries have been
scarred by Man’s divergence from Christ’s doctrine
of Love and Goodwill.
But constant through it all is the Christian
belief that the Child of Bethlehem was truly the
Son of God, the Prince of Peace, and that He shall
prevail.
In the spirit of that Belief, with all the joy and
hope that are implicit in it, I wish you now a Happy
and a Blessed Christmas.
179
. . \ .■
have followed the increased rates
of sales-tax.
Consolidated Finance Corp. is
the reconstructed Producers and
General Finance Corp., which
found itself in trouble 18 years
ago, and after reorganisation in
1945, wrote-off £388,750 of its
capital and adopted the present
title.
During the last term a sub-
sidiary co., Ampfion Automotive
Pty., was sold and a small
finance co. acquired. The group
now consists of the Sydney-
based parent with Melbourne
and Brisbane branches and seven
subsidiaries: A. W. Booth Pty.,
Kelly’s Furniture Pty., Simpson
Lee and Co., Ltd., Century
Furnishers Pty. (furniture
retailers), Kilners Pty. (removals
and storage), and the newly-
acquired Fincor Pty. —all of
Sydney.
Entering the h.-p. field in
1941, the co. has made con-
siderable progress since recon-
struction, particularly 'in the last
five years of boom hire-purchase
activity. Paid capital has risen
from £295,873 ip 1950 to
£1,470,549, £300,000 being raised
by the issue of 7 p.c. prefs. in
1954, wheii the equivalent of a
one-for-four bonus added a
further £105,899. The last issue
(in May, ’55 —one-for-three at
par) brought in £264,748.
Utilising the capital received
late in the previous term . and
proceeds of a £1,000,000 deben-
ture-issue, the co. extended its
h.-p. business, and, with all sub-
sidiaries contributing to earnings,
showed a £30,737 increase in net
profit, after deducting minority
interest and writing-off deben-
ture-issue expenses of £30,201.
An extra £44,393 (to £153,008)
was provided for taxation and
£11,129 (up £533) charged to
depreciation, leaving net profit
at £199,805:
'Consolidated Finance & Subsidiaries.
t Dividends \ Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.e. p.c. £ £
From doubtful debts pro-
vision, £lO,OOO . . . . 36,070
Unexpl’d reduction .res., £1263. 34,807
1952 . . 49,243 7 10 46,174 37,876
Unexpl’d addition res., £229.. 38,105
1953.. 84,463 7 10 46,174 76,394
. Revaluation assets, £105,899 ..182,293
Reserves capitalised, £105,899.. 76,394
Deficit.*
Less res. adjustment, £145,474 69,080
Added goodwill, £19,353 .. 88,433
From tax reserve, £15,043.. 73,390
1954. .112,782 7 12£ 87,748 48,356
Tax overprovided, £15,933 .. 32,123
Added reserves, £4935 ~ 27,488.
Res.*'
1955. .169,068 7 15 139,262 2,318
Reduction, intangibles, £14,498 16,816
Profit sale assets, etc., £751.. 17,567
Unexplained addition, £936 .. 18,503
1956. .199,805 7 15 188,579 29,729
* After deducting goodwill and difference
between par and book-value of shares in
subsidiaries.
The 15 p.c. ord. div. was
repeated. Earnings, after cover-
ing the pref. divs., dropped to
16 p.c. of the larger ord. capital,
compared with 18.7, 21.6, 19.8,
and 10.8 p.c. in the four preced-
ing years.
The first debenture-issue to the
public was oversubscribed, and
debentures and deposits came
into the balance - sheet at
£1,341,000, but shareholders are
left to guess as to just what
transactions were responsible for
the £159,941 increase in the
book-value of freehold and
leasehold properties:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £400,000 £400,000
Ord 794,245 1,070,549
Share application.. 280,294
Reserves* .. .. 2,318 29,729
Outside interests.. 48,604 7,215
Debentures and de-
posits .. .. 1,341,000
Unearned income 375,180 500,954
Overdraft.. .. 1,854,250 1,396,113
Creditors, etc. .. • 129,600 152,020
Tax provision . . 91,998 159,654
Final div 73,568 94,291
£.4,050,147 £5,151,525
Freeholds, etc. . . 198,980 358,921
Plant, etc. . . 61,242 49,664
Stock .. . . 152,616 140,759
Debtors . . . . 3,354,965 4,577,313
Cash, etc 282,344 2,037
Inter-co. balances . 22,831
£4,050,147 £5,151,525
* After deducting goodwill, £58,600 at
30/6/’56.
The funds provided by share-
and debenture-issues were put
to work, there being a pleasing
£1,222,348 increase in debtors,
while £458,137 was chopped-off
the overdraft, which, however,
still stood at a sizeable
£1,396,113. At the end of the
term borrowed funds (overdraft,
debentures, etc.) amounted to
£2,737,113, a little under twice
the paid capital.
At ss. lid. the f.-p. ss. ords.
return 12.4 p.c. from a 15 p.c.
div. Net tangible asset backing
is a shade over ss. Id.
Keith Morris Construction
FIRST annual accounts of this
Queensland building - con-
tractor and civil engineer are
quite promising, and the cautious
disposition of earnings suggests
that share-capital will soon
enjoy the help of strong reserves.
Keith Morris Construction,
Ltd., was formed in 1955, acquir-
ing the capital of K. D. Morris
and Sons Pty. and Keith Morris
Pty. for £220,000, which was
converted into scrip in the parent
co. A further 100,000 £1
shares were offered to the public
in November, 1955, paid capital
at June 30 last amounting to
£320,454* all in £1 ords.
Normally undertaking work
in Brisbane and country areas
of Queensland, the co. this year
ventured into N.S.W. to complete
a project at Armidale.
The turnover of the operating
cos. was the highest on record,
consolidated accounts showing
a net profit of £69,063 after
providing £450 for directors’ fees,
£48,350 for taxation, and £2476
for depreciation of fixed assets
(in the accounts at a net £106,414,
of which freehold land and
buildings account for £78,760).
The basis on which fixed assets
are valued is not mentioned in
the balance-sheet.
Earnings equalled 21.5 p.c. on
paid capital as it stood at the
end of the term: a satisfactory
result, as part of the capital was
gathered-in halfway through the
the year. An 8 p.c. div.-rate for
the eight months ended June, ’56,
required £15,758, and preliminary
expenses (£9056) were written
off, leaving £44,249 (including
pre-acquisition profits of £23,171)
for reserves.
Current assets exceed liabilities
by £153,288, after providing for
dividends, etc., and this working-
capital is supported by short-
term debentures, deposits and
shares in other cos. totalling
£105,001.
The large volume of work in
hand indicates that turnover
should, at least, be maintained,
and, with satisfactory results
from the first two months’
trading in the current term, the
directors forecast another
successful year. The 8 p.c. div.
was easily covered, and, if
earnings are maintained, Some
improvement can be expected
without unduly affecting the
growth of reserves.
The f.-p. £1 ords. are supported
by net tangible assets of 225. 9d.,
and at 235. 3d. return 6.9 p.c.
from an 8 p.c. distribution.
Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L.
T ITERALLY “striking-it-rich”
a few years back, Hill 50
Gold Mine (Mt. Magnet, W.A.)
has proved to be one of the most
profitable goldmining ventures
in Australia for many years. Last
term shareholders received ss. 6d.
in divs. for each of their
3,000,000 Is. stock-units, and in
August last 6,000,000 new-issue
shares, paid to 3d., were handed
out, the quarterly div. being
dropped to sd. per share in
November.
The practice of publishing
possible ore reserves has been
discontinued, and no additions
were made to the ore-estimate
of June, 1955. Allowing for ore
treated during the year the co.
disclosed proved, probable and
possible reserves of 833,000 short
tons going 13dwt. per ton. The
mill would take about seven
years to get through that lot at
last term’s rate of throughput.
/ Ore treated during the year to
June 30 amounted to 118,622
short tons (up 6818 tons), the
83,2950 z. (up 47130 z.) of .fine
gold obtained realising
£1,302,091, an increase of
£73,629. while premium gold-
sales brought in another £917.
Head grade again averaged
15dwt.
Overall mine-costs rose to
60s. Bd. a ton treated, against
565. 4d. in the previous term, but
not all of the increase was due
to higher wage-rates and
expenses, for a “bank” of
broken ore was established to
release men and equipment for
underground development.
After charging £30,661 for
depreciation (up £6280) and
£37,982 (down 9076) for develop-
ment and prospecting, net profit
was £21,658 higher at
£903,436:
Year to Treated, Gold, Profit. Div.
June, Tons. Fine Oz. £ £
1952.. 52,427. 11,880 23,877 Nil
(47.3%)
1953.. 72,763 24,930. 156,729 65,625
(237,0%)
1954.. 92,245 56,763 607,399 356,250
(500%)
1955. .111,844 78,582 881,778 750,000
(550%)
1956. .118,622 83,295 903,436 825,000
Earnings equalled 602.2 p.c.
on the capital employed, or
401.5 p.c. on the total as it now
stands, including the bonus-
issue.
Continued shaft-sinking has
given access to the main lode at
a greater depth, and development
of the 1304 ft. level will be
commenced in the current year.
Extensions to the treatment-plant
will make some reserve capacity,
available for any increase in
production and help to prevent a
fall in tonnage during main-
tenance periods.
At June 30 last current assets
exceeded current liabilities by
£415,997, fixed assets after depre-
ciation amounting to £372,487.
Offering 18s. for the f.-p. Is.
units and 16s. 9d. for the
contribs., the market values the
mine at over £5,000,000, not an
unreasonable assessment even on
existing ore reserves.
Mount Isa Mines, Ltd.
AT the annual meeting of Mt.
Isa Mines chairman G. R.
Fisher said that an increase in
ore-production, from 4000 to
13,000 tons a day, over the next
five years was contemplated by
the company. However, plans to
lift production at the silver-lead-
zinc and copper-mine could only
be implemented if Federal and
State Governments agreed to
improve the Townsville-Mt. Isa
rail-link.
If adequate rail - transport
allows the planned programme
to be completed by 1961 “it is
possible that the policy of
financing expansion from profits
and reserves may not meet the
situation.”
Tangalooma Minerals, Ltd.
JOINTLY owned by Whale
** Industries, Ltd., and Zircon
Rutile, Ltd., a subsidiary, Tanga-
looma Minerals Pty., Ltd., has
acquired “considerable leases on
both the Moreton Bay and ocean
beaches of Moreton Island,”
some of which were formerly
owned by Whale Industries.
A factory is being erected,
plant has been bought, and full
operation is expected by April,
1957.
Capacity of, the plant and the
extent of ore reserves have not
been . disclosed, nor has the
capital involved, apart from
initial subscriptions. But in
October, 1956, Tangalooma
Minerals had already begun
stockpiling mineral concentrates.


Women's Letters
MELBOUDNE
To all readers of this Letter, the wish
is a joyous Christmas and peace and
happiness for 1957.
During the week members of the Aus 7
tralian Boys Choir sang carols outside
George’s in Collins-street, whilst higher up
on the hill a large illuminated Christmas-
tree stood in the grounds of the Inde-
pendent Church. In Bourke-street the
largest Father Christmas model in the
Southern Hemisphere looked down from
Foy’s and slowly beckoned with a large
forefinger. At night electric-lights
gleamed from his eyes, one of which
slowly winked.
The wonderful John Batman has dis-
appeared with the Olympics, and in his
place on Coles’ stoje is a jovial Father
Christmas. Replacing the diorama of the
city before Batman’s arrival is Mum and
Dad filling the stockings ; in a flash this
disappears and it’s Christmas Morning
and the children are playing with the toys.
It is surely as gay a Christmas as this
city has ever known, for many of the
lights and decorations which were put up
for the Games Still remain. The prettiest
part of the city is Exhibition-street,
where the large trees in the centre of the
road are hung with colored fairylights.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some lovely ensembles were worn to
the Princess Theatre for the premiere of
the Classical Theatre of China, the rare
and delicate artistry of which fascinated
the big audience. Mrs. Garnet Carroll
chose a high-necked gown of gold re-
embroidered lace and a gold satin theatre-
coat trimmed with matching sequins.
Lisa Brionda topped her frock with a
jade-green satin full-backed coat. Lady
Tait wore long gloves of blue nylon with
her nylon gown patterned in azure-blue
and grey. Mrs. James McGauran’s short,
full frock was of white French-lace, her
theatre-coat of jade-green satin.
Mrs. Alan Wynn wore a vividly-
patterned Chinese-coat, Rosalind Sandy
a frock of royal-blue Chinese brocade.
Mrs. Ronald Nott matched her satin shoes
with a frock and loose coat of ice-blue
satin. Mrs. Charles Davidson was
accompanied by her daughter Noel,
whose short, full, cotton frock was
splashed with large red roses outlined in
red sequins. Mrs. Len Buxton added to
her black taffeta frock a stole of rose-
pink taffeta. Mrs. Sue Cain wore an
unadorned black taffeta frock and coat.
☆ ☆ ☆
To celebrate the move into their new
Toorak home Cr. and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan gave a late-afternoon house-
warming party. The spacious garden
carried fairylights; striped awnings
covered a bar and the patio, from which
the 400 guests had an excellent view of
the delightful garden and the swimming-
pool. The hostess wore a short full-
skirted frock of champagne stiffened
silk-shantung, the rounded neckline
embroidered with pearls.
Mrs. Henry Bolte and Mrs. Harold
Holt, who were going on to an evening
function, were in evening-dress—Mrs.
Bolte’s a white brocaded duchess-satin
gown, Mrs. Holt's a full-skirted gown
of ice-blue satin. Others at the party were
the Lord Mayor and Lady Seileck, Cr.
Robert Solly and Mrs. Solly, Cr. Bernard
Evans and his wife, Sir Robert and Lady
Knox, Sir Bernard and Lady Heinze,’
Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley and
Lady McCauley, Mrs. E. L. Fitzgerald,
Chief Railways Commissioner Brownbill
and Mrs. Brownbill, Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Luke, and Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bennett.
☆ ☆ ☆
A band of women known as Dr.
Cunningham Dax’s Anonymous Group
arranged a Shepherds’ Market at the
home of Mrs. A. G. Silk in Toorak.
Tables were heaped high with eggs, jams,
fruit and vegetables, toys, costume-
jewellery, etc. A well-wishdr in the
Western District donated a steer which at
the Newmarket saleyards .brought £lO5.
Proceeds of the two-day market are for
the Mentally Retarded Children Fund.
Lady Brooks, attended by Mrs: John
Buckland, was there. Those who gave
their serviced included Mrs. Eric Rogers,
Mrs. Royden Honeyman, Mrs. E. J.
Shilliday, Mrs. Leo Guest, Mrs. Herbert
Allen and Mrs. A. A. Lord.
Father Christmas paid a visit to No. 9
Darling-street and gave a present to every
guest at the St. Vincent’s Hospital
Younger Set dance in aid of the hospital.
President Judy Roberts received the
guests in the foyer, which was decorated
with an illuminated Christmas-tree and
bowls of lovely flowers. Joy Allen was
there, wearing a sea-green pure-silk
taffeta frock, the skirt featuring a harem
hemline. Theda Broderick danced in a
short black taffeta frock, Ann Harrison
in orchid-pink satins. Judy Burns chose
a red-rose-printed white taffeta frock,
Kay Cody' blue - and - white - checked
cottons. Other members of the com-
mittee were Barbara Zinnow, Margaret
Mary Collins and Prue and Judy
Shillabeer. Highlight of the evening was
a performance of the Charleston by eight
of (he girls, wearing the short, tight,
lowAvaisted frocks of that era.
Attractive Mary Ward, well-known Aus-
tralian star of. stage and radio, returned
home in time for the Olympic Games,
after having been in London for eight
years, during which time she has been
doing stage, film, radio and television
work. Mary will settle in Melbourne and
concentrate on radio. Photo by Stanley
Rytter (London).
Ten days after Prudence Mignon, only
daughter of Lieut.-General and Mrs.
A. R. Garrett, of Caulfield, arrived home
after having been abroad for 10 months,
she was married at St. John’s, Toorak,
to Graham Stewart Keys. With her
Princess-line white faille gown the bride
wore a tulle veil caught with a coronet
of pearls, made specially for her in Paris.
She carried a small bouquet of lilies.
Attending her were Mrs. Tom Lock-
wood, Dorothy Austin and Nan Killen
(of Narrabri, N.S.W.), wearing ballerina
frocks of duck-egg blue and white
striped Swiss-cotton, with bell-shaped
skirts and a large bow at the back of the
waist. The bridegroom, younger son of
the late Mr. F. C. Keys and of Mrs. B. S.
Day, of East St. Kilda, had lan Robson
as best man and Gordon Hessell and
Captain M. Frost as groomsmen. Recep-
tion was held in a marquee in the garden
of the home of the bride’s parents.
SYDNEY
Sydney is now alive with preparations
for Christmas, white Christmas of
snow and jingle-bells, but it% own extra-
special brand of gold and sparkling-blue,
with the sun and the sea and the sand
providing the decor, and the moving
crowds in their gay summer clothes
setting the tempo.
/ Typically Australian are the carols by
candlelight, this year held on several
clear bright nights and attended by tens
of thousands of people. The family
parties, the enraptured children, the
young lovers, the old people, are gathered
into one glittering galaxy, singing for
Christmas and the spirit of harmony.
This is part of the new type of
festivity that Sydney,' and other cities of
Australia, are contributing to Christmas.
Any movement, however, to substitute
the hot dinner on Christmas Day with a
more appropriately Australian meal (a
nice salad —lobster perhaps—or a
barbecue of chops and steak?) makes
very little headway. The poultry and
four veg., the plum-pudding and the nuts
are here to stay, it seems. The reason
is, of course, that most people just love
poultry and plum-pudding, and they
don’t get much of an excuse at any other
time of the year to demand them.
In the streets and shops the Christmas
decorations are mostly following the
traditional line. One store has an ingeni-
ous display in which Santa Claus seems
to be flying across the street on a rocket,
a trail of lights behind him. In another,
a ceilingful of silver stars is inhabited by
ballerina-like fairies, just about the size
of a nine-year-old girl and looking just
as she would like to look. Santa Claus is
everywhere, taking orders for motor-cars
and bride-dolls, and suggesting that Robin
Hood caps and skipping-ropes might also
be included.
* a a
An event during the week was the
parade through the streets of the Aus-
tralian Olympic team. They proceeded in
open cars—probably having had enough
walking, running and jumping at the
Games —and were showered from office-
windows along the route with masses
of shredded paper like snow. They had
been to a reception given in their honor
by the new Lord Mayor (Alderman H. F.
Jensen), and were also entertained by the
State Government at an evening-reception
at the Australia on Thursday. On Thurs-
day also Lorraine Crapp and Betty Cuth-
bert, with Betty’s mother, were guests-of-
honor at the Christmas-party at the Red
Cross Handicrafts Centre for 200 dis-
abled ex-servicemen and -women.
q. q. q.
The new Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H. F.
Jensen, received callers at the Town Hall
during the week, when she met members
of her Relief Fund committee and repre-
sentatives of women’s organisations. Mrs.
C. C. Wilson and Mrs. W. Malcolm
represented the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, Mfs. E. Chauvel and Miss Lillian
Mitchell the Girl Guides, and Mrs. W.
Dovey the Travellers’ Aid Society.
Mrs. Jensen, who has a warm and friendly
manner, had not been a member of the
committee hitherto, but said that she
looks forward to a very happy association
with all its splendid workers.
Twenty-four hours in the day would
not seem long enough for the activities
of Mrs. Tom Bateman, a remarkable and
vital Sydney personality. Eldest daughter
of the late Gregory McGirr, Beatrice
Bateman was the first woman in Aus-
tralia to win both the Master of Arts and
Bachelor of Laws degrees, and is still the
only woman barrister to hold them. The
mother of six children whose ages range
down from 14 years to 20 months, she
plays an active part in work for charity,
her particular interests being the Univer-
sity Settlement Ball and the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball. She works for Red
Cross, has been five times matron-of-
honor at the T.P.J. Ball, and frequently
receives debs, at school dances. Interested
in theatre, she is seen at all the first
nights, and she works for the Elizabethan
Theatre Ball. Art-shows claim her atten-
tion : she collects Australian paintings
along with fine china from all parts of
the world. Well known for her broad-
casts on matters of topical general interest,
she has also found time to write two
reports for United Nations’ conventions
on the legal status of Australian women ,
and she is in great demand as a speaker.
Most of the year she and her f amily spend
at their home at Wollstonecraft, but
holidays often see them at their country
property, Pomeroy, Oberon (N.S.W.). She
is also a member of the Council of Sancta
Sophia College, Sydney University. A
vigorous life certainly, and a full one.
While Garden Club president Mrs.
Arthur Davis is away in Europe next
year (she leaves in February) her deputy
will be Mrs. Meg McSpeerin. This was
announced at the club’s annual meeting
and Christmas-party held at the Com-
monwealth Bank Building during the
week. As always at this party, the decora-
tions were delightful, Mrs. E. G. Water-
house “creating” a charming setting of
little golden lanterns on a gold tree against
a black-velvet background. Guests-of-
honor were Mrs. Morisaburo Seki, wife
of the Japanese Consul-General, and Miss
Toyama, both of whom wore exquisite
silk kimonos with grace and charm.
it it t *
There is ample entertainment for the
small folk this Christmas. As well as the
pantomime “Sinbad the Sailor,” at the
Tivoli, they can see “Alice in Wonder-
land” at the Phillip-street Theatre or “The
Tintookies” at the Elizabethan. Noted
that little silver Tintookie brooches and
earrings are sprouting on ears and lapels
—very xute.
CANBERRA
Brilliant Sunshine enhanced the Gradu-
ation Day parade of cadets of the Royal
Military College, Duntroon; colorful
parasols and summer frocking among the
spectators lent a bright note. The R.M.C.
band, immaculate in starch-white jackets
and brass-tipped white helmets, supplied
perfect harmony for the graduating class
parading for the last time before receiving
their sovereign’s commission. The Prime
Minister, Mr. R. G. Menzies, took the
salute ; with him on the dais were the
Chief of the General Staff, Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Henry Wells ; the Chief of the N.Z.
General Staff, Maj.-Gen. C. B. Weir;
the Minister for the Army, Mr. J. O.
Cramer; Commandant R.M.C., Maj.-
Gen. lan Campbell; and Colonel F. G.
Hassett.
The High Commissioner for N.Zyi Mr.
G. E. L. Alderton, saw five N.Z. cadets
with 55 Australian cadets receive their
diplomas and prizes from the Prime
Minister. The Sword of Honor was
presented to Queenslander Senior Under-
Officer F. J. Cross.
The gathering were later entertained at
afternoon-tea in the lovely gardens of
Duntroon House.
Highlight of Graduation Day was the
ball held at the college. Hostess Mrs. lan
Campbell, receiving the guests, wore an
elegant gown of cream-and-gold brocade
featuring a draped bodice and full skirt;
she was assisted by host for the ball,
Senior Under-Officer F. J. Cross. Among
the many guests were Sir Henry Wells
and Lady Wells (her graceful gown in
silver-grey satin) and Sydney visitors Mr.
and Mrs. G. Salmon, she wearing a classi-
cal gown of smoke-grey silk embroidered
with bugle-beads, the panelled skirt lined
with coral-pink. During the evening
guests sat at tables on the floodlit terraces ;
as midnight approached, all hurried into
the ballroom for the “putting-up-pips”
ceremony. As happens every year,
“Casey’s Ghost” (the skeleton of a
“cadet,” cap and all) astride thd skeleton
of a horse, said to be the ghost of
“Sandy,” the only horse to return from
World War I, was escorted around the
ballroom. On the stroke of midnight,
partners and mothers placed the pips of
rank on the new officers’ shoulders.
This was the last Graduation Day for
Maj.-Gen. Campbell as Commandant of
the R.M.C.; he retires from the Army
next March and will be greatly missed
from Duntroon.
Prime Minister Menzies, with his own
souvenir of the Olympic Games in the
form of a heavy cold, attended with Dame
Pattie a late-afternoon reception given at
the Hotel Canberra by the Acting High
Commissioner for Canada, Mr. D. M.
Cornett, and Mrs. Cornett, in honor of
the Canadian Minister of Health and
Welfare, Mr. Paul J. J. Martin, who is
visiting Australia with his wife and a
large party.
Among the gathering were the High
Commissioner for U.K., Lord Carring-
ton. with Lady Carrington, who wore a
cornflower-blue shantung frock and small
white hat; the German Ambassador, Dr.
Hess, and Madame Hess (her flower-pot
hat swathed in white tulle); the Chinese
Minister, Dr. Chen Tai-Chu, and Madame
Chen, she wearing a silver-grey and white
Chinese gown ; the High Commissioner
for Ceylon and Madame P. R. Gunase-
kara ; the Counsellor to the U.K. High
Commission, Mr. A. G. Rouse, and Mrs.
Rouse (her frock of grey satin patterned
in muted colors was worn with an
iridescent-petalled hat); the Leader of the
Federal Opposition, Dr. H. V. Evatt, and
Mrs. Evatt; Lord Lindsay of Birker;
and the new (and first) Commissioner for
Malaya, Dato Nik Kamil.
During their stay in Canberra Mr. and
Mrs. Martin were the guests of the
Governor-General and Lady Slim at
Government House.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
Marine and
ACCIDENT.
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.,
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
1^
m>
mm
K *
hoi o i *
■ m
m
mm
i
4-f tM
Aim
Itcecctxccg^yw.
t /;'
i!
m
mi
MORE FOR YOUR MONEY IN STYLE . ..
more for your money in
family car comfort!
New beauty is not the whole Holden story. For this roomy Holden’s smooth arid
easy way of moving will give you and your family the most wonderful miles of your
life . . . comfortably, dependably and ecpnomically.
Your family will delight in the new Holden’s spacious softly padded seating for
six people; the smoother, softer riding qualities made possible by the new suspension
and longer, 105 in. wheelbase; the marvellous vision you get with the one piece
curved windscreen and wrap around rear window.
You will sense Holden’s roadability and certainty of control once you get your hands
on the wheel ... the easy way the new recirculating ball steering handles curves
and tight parking spots with a wonderful feeling of precise command, the way
Holden masters hills with its new 70 gross brake horsepower.
See your Holden Dealer now . . . find out for yourself what it’s really like to drive
and live in Holden. Discover, too, why you get more for your money in Holden,
Australia’s favorite family car.
There are two “Air Chief” Car Radios specially
designed for r lolden. Convenient GMAC Hire
Purchase arrangements are available.
HOLDER
A\istralias Own Car
LIST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia xiaa
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Gyring and Gimbling
A great deal of the adult
nonsense has been omitted from
William Orr’s production of
•“Alice” (Phillip-street Theatre,
Sydney), which combines
Adventures in Wonderland and
Through the Looking-glass, with
a .few ring-ins as well, all set
to music by Dot Mendoza.
Reported missing are the Dodo
organising the Caucus-race, the
Mouse and its unfinished tale,
Bill the Lizard in the cucumber-
frames, the Croquet-game with
flamingo-mallets, the Gryphon,
the Chess - pieces, Flowers,
Insects, the Lion and the Unicorn
(“If you believe in me, I’ll believe
in you”), the lonely Knight, and
the rowing-boat (“Feather!
Feather! ”) in the scented rushes.
Thus simplified for children,
there is still a crowd of fantastic
characters who are greeted with
delighted squeals of recognition:
the White Rabbit (John Flem-
ing); a pantomime comic
“Dame” Duchess (Max
Oldaker), with the pig-baby,
pepper-pot and Cook; the
Advice from a Caterpillar (“Keep
your temper”); the mad logic
of the Cheshire Cat (John
Parker); and the rattling teacups
at the never-ending meal (“It’s
always six-o’clock”) by the Mad
Hatter (Barry Humphries), the
March Hare (Alan Dearth) and
the sulky little Dormouse
(Brenda Humphries).
There is also a self-important
Humpty Dumpty, played with
an air of immense superiority by
Kevin Brennan in a scene which
includes for good measure the
intrusion of the King’s Horses
and the King’s Men from some
other book. Brennan also plays
a. magnificently terrifying Queen
—“Are their heads off?” “Their
heads are gone, if it please your
Majesty!”
Then there are the wretched
Two, Five and Seven of Spades
painting the roses; the lugubrious
Walrus and the Carpenter;
Tweedledum and Tweedledee;
and,- best of all, the Mock Turtle's
“Beautiful Soup,” sung by Max
Oldaker as a rich Viennese
waltz. It all winds-up with the
trial of the Knave of Hearts and
the suppression of applause —
with considerable abbreviation
and some further liberties with
the script.
Kathleen Gorham floats and
dances to Ronnie Hay’s choreo-
graphy ; finally, after the Court
scene has dissolved into a pack of
cards, she dances slowly on one
point across the stage in a series
of revolutions like a china-doll
on top of a music-box before
she falls again into that attitude
of dreaming on which the curtain
rose.
The ingenious costumes by
Peter Hurst and the many settings
by Joseph Shearer —like the
illustrated pages of a book—
combine to give a brilliant
Wonderland spectacle, and the
smartly paced production seems
to include the audience in the
mad happenings —rather like a
gloriously confused Christmas-
party.
♦♦♦
Third Summer of “The Doll”
Among Olympic record-
breakers who didn’t receive a
medal was Ray Lawler, whose
“Summer of the 17th Doll” has
put in its third appearance in
Melbourne within a year of its
first production. As far as this
commentator knows, that is the
first time such a thing has hap-
pened to any Australian play-
wright.
Inspection of the current issue
confirms the first impression that
the play deserves the recognition
it is getting. Even though
basically as sentimental in its
outlook as C. J. Dennis’s story
of the Bloke and Doreen, it is
written with a vividness and
passion that keep the audience
focused on the doings or mis-
doings of canecutters and bar-
maids in as drab an apartment
as any to be found in Carlton.
In this production, under the
direction of John Sumner and
the aegis of the 'Elizabethan
Trust, the men are excellent. As
Barney, Ray Lawler couldn’t
have acted the part better if he
hadn’t written it. The women
were more uneven. Madge
Ryan was well cast as Pearl and
seemed to be living rather than
acting that part, but June Jago,
as the immortal Olive,, spoke far
too quickly, and the others were
so full of movement that the
meaning of their lines, if any,
seldom got across the footlights.
None of them was altogether
able to conceal the fact that a
ladies’ finishing college had been
her academy.
*l* *Z* ❖
“The Beautiful Years”
In the thinning ranks of
Sydney’s Little Theatres—the
Kuringai group, the Shavians
and the Metropolitan are latter-
day casualties —the Genesian
Theatre, in the little old stone
church in Kent-street with its
steep and lovely roof, has more-
or-less established itself in front
of the field with a consistent
run of excellent productions.
Its last production for the
year, Saroyan’s “The Beautiful
People,” is not quite up to its
best standard —such as it
achieved ip “Shadow and
Substande” earlier this year—but
it is still entertaining enough in
its mellow, sentimental fashion.
The play—which seems to
have echoes of “Ah Wilder-
ness ! ” “The Happy Time,”
“You Can’t Take It With You”
and sundry others —centres in a
vague way around the family of
Jonah Webster, who, when he
rented a house for himself and
his three children nine years ago,
found that the pension of the
previous and deceased occupant
still kept coming.
His main occupations appear
to be philosophising to his
children, standing on street-
corners talking to people, and
stocking-up prodigally with wine
and food on pension-days and
extending hospitality to anyone
who cares to drop in.
One son has taken his trumpet
and gone to New York, the
other talks of writing books and
bids fair to live in philosophical
idleness like his father, and the
daughter has an almost fanatical
concern for the welfare of the
mice with which the house
abounds and which bring
flowers for her.
The other people who float
in and out of this generous
atmosphere include Harmony
Blueblossom, who was appar-
ently interested in the father in
his younger days; an insurance-
company representative who
comes to cancel the pension, but
decides to let it continue; a
priest, and sundry other casual
drifters.
Apart from the threat to the
pension, the most important
events in the play appear to be
the loss of a mouse, the
daiifehter falling in love, and the
return of the son from New
York; and, while players and
producer contrive to entwine
these things in a kind of
whimsical charm, they fall too
deeply into Saroyan’s drowsy,
summery mood of recollections,
and lose the sharp edge of
characterisation which is
essential to a play of so little
action.
Chekhov’s “The Proposal” is
a curtain-raiser for the evening
—played for vigorous comedy
instead of its own natural
humor, but still highly amusing.
♦I 4 ♦+♦
A.B.C.’s “Messiah”
This year’s performance, with
the big Hurlstone Choir
collaborating with Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, was greatly
strengthened by bass Stanley
Clarkson, who, after successful
years abroad, returned to sing
in the Mozart Bicentenary
opera-season. His production is
now more facile ; the head-notes
around F and G are more fine-
drawn, without the loss of
natural resonance ; his legato is
smoother, and tonal shading
more subtle.
Allan Ferris, the tenor, was
again in splendid voice. Florence
Taylor’s contralto worked with
its customary smoothness, and
soprano Margaret Moore sang
her two big airs, “Come Unto
Me” and “I Know That My
Redeemer Liveth,” with
devotional warmth.
Albert Keats, the Hurlstone
Choir’s conductor, obtained from
his choral forces good weight in
'the “Hallelujah” chorus and
excellent integration of the cross-
currents in “And the Glory of
the Lord” and “For Ufito Us.”
The orchestra was in tiptop
form, nowhere better than in the
pianissimo of the Pastoral Sym-
phony. It responded well, too,
to Mr. Keats’s adjurations for
damping-down when the soloists
were operating—always a good
feature of this conductor’s work.
❖ ❖ ♦>
Among the extraordinarily fine
concerts which accompanied the
Olympic Games in Melbourne
one of the finest was given at the
Town Hall under Sir Bernard
Heinze’s baton. In the Sibelius
Symphony No. 2 in D Major, the
Victorian orchestra followed its
conductor as one man, and
better than it had done on some
previous occasions. The
mysterious slow movement was
particularly lovely.
In Schumann’s Concerto in
A Minor, Melbourne pianist
Nancy Weir proved herself to
be as beautiful an instrumentalist
as ever.x The way she captured
the happy mood of the composer
was outstanding.
Dorian le Gallienne, the Mel-
bourne composer, weighed-in
with a sinfonietta, a short work
which he sketched in England
in 1951 whilst studying on a
Commonwealth Jubilee Scholar-
ship, and which he completed
this year. Scored for strings, two
horns and woodwind, it was
altogether pleasant. The string
opening was delightful.
Talkies
“The King and I” (Sydney
Regent): Rodgers and Hammer-
stein, best creative theatre-
partnership since Gilsullivan,
reach the peak of their work in
this finely-devised, magnificently-
produced film. The story’s the
same as in “Anna and' the King
of Siam,” which Rex Harrison
starred in some years ago ; but
the musical version leaves
“Anna” far behind. The
Rodgers music has distinction;
Oscar Hammerstein’s lyrics wit,
resourc6 ’and polish. No musical
hitherto had been given settings
of such splendor, none a star of
such personality and virility as
Yul Brynner (who has the lead
in the five-year-old Broadway
stage-production). As Anna, the
young English widow engaged
by the king to teach his
numerous progeny, Deborah
Kerr is delightful. The film’s
artistic zenith is in an inter-
polated playlet, “Small House
of Uncle Thomas,” in which
Siamese give a charmingly-
mimed nutshell-interpretation of
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
“Lady and • the Tramp”
(Sydney Plaza): Enchanting
full-length Disney cartoon,
inhabited by the most engaging
set of dog-characters this side
of the doghouse. In addition to
the two title-rolers —the refined
lady-dog who flees from the
home where she feels she is no
longer wanted, and the raffish,
shrewd-headed mongrel' who
chivalrously comes to her aid
—there are a drooling old blood-
hound who has lost his sense
of smell and is addicted to for-
getting what he is talking about;
a frugal Scotchy of most prac-
tical views; a Cockney bulldog
given to making coarse obser-
vations ; an aristocratic Borzoi
fallen on evil times, but with his
philosophic outlook unimpaired;
a tunnel-digging Dachshund,
leader of the pound’s escape-
society, etc. They all speak
in character, but react in
unmistakably canine terms to
the manifold problems that
pooches of suburbia face. Laced
with frank appraisal of the
foibles of the’ human race by
its best friends.


Indian Trritory
By G. H. FEAR N SIDE
THE boy in the coonskin
cap stiffened slightly when
he heard the yelp of the
dog. He barked a reply
and waited. He watched the
lantana move as it traced the
progress of the person crawling
through it. He set down the
long stick—the Winchester, to
give it its correct designation—
and waited for Morrie to appear.
Morrie crawled through the
lantana into the clearing. The
boy in the coonskin cap didn’t
greet him. He merely noted that
he had a Bowie-knife in his belt
but wore no guns. There was
nothing, indeed, to identify him
as the gunslinger he claimed to
be. His hat was the very
excrescence of a hat, not at all
in the tradition of the West, but
of no shape at all and down at
the brim. He might have been
a bagman; not one who had
ridden with Wyatt Earp.
They sat on their haunches
and waited, wondering when
Skeeter would come. They
wondered, too, how Skeeter
would measure up to his first
raid into hostile territory, now
that he had been inducted in the
Frontier Brotherhood and had
takep its oaths.
a ,When Skeeter did come
crawling through the tunnel his
companions didn’t greet him
either. That was part of the
ritual. They just looked him
over and in that manner
acknowledged that he was
there—as he’d said he’d be. That
was how the three owlhoots had
come together at the start of
“High Noon.” No fuss, no
bother, no wasting time in super-
fluous greeting. They had waited
until all three were assembled
and then gone riding off into
town, hell-bent. Given that they
were owlhoots, there was no
doubting they meant business.
The boy in the coonskin cap
broke off a twig of lantana and
leaned forward. He scratched a
design on the ground.
“The creek is here,” he said,
indicating a curved line. “Once
we cross it we’re in Indian
territory.” He paused, then
added portentously: “Comanche
territory! ”
Both he and Morrie looked at
Skeeter, who had never had
dealings with the Comanche
before, although he had heard
in detail often enough the perils
that had attended his comrades
on their last raid. He knew the
Comanches were not many in
number but were without a
doubt a warlike tribe, consisting
of a man, a savage cattle-dog,
and a squaw.
The squaw, according to the
Frontier Brotherhood, was the
cruellest of the three. If you
were unlueky enough to be
captured, it was not the practice
to scalp you there and then.
You were hustled back to the
Comanche village where you
were handed over to the squaw.
She would, without any ado
whatsoever, cut off your eyelids
with a, knife and stake you out
on an antbed until sundown.
Then she would finish you off
with a knife, slowly and pain-
fully.
C|KEETER, mindful of these
things and the unspoken
question on the lips of his
partners, said, “I ain’t afraid!”
“If we’re caught it’ll mean
death,” the boy in the coonskin
cap reminded him.
“They scalp you after the
squaw has done her work,”
added Morrie. “And wear it
on their belts.”
* But Skeeter repeated, “I ain’t
afraid! ”
“Well then,” said the boy in
the coonskin cap, “here is the
plan. We cross the creek about
fifty yards from here, moving
under cover of the lantana. Just
up from the creek there is a
barbed-wire fence, but we don't
climb over it or through it. No
sir!”
“Davy and me were out scout-
ing late yesterday,” Morrie said.
“We made a tunnel under the
fence, four posts from the
corner. We get into the field
that way.”
He paused so that Skeeter
might reflect upon the calibre
of the frontiersmen he was
riding with, and so take heart.
“Once in the field,” Morrie
continued, “Davy goes forward
and scouts the area—looks for
Comanche sign. That is the
dangerous part, but as everyone
knows he’s the best scout we’ve
got. It’s my job to guard our
escape-route —the tunnel under
the fence. I make sure no
sneaking varmints of redskins
attack us from behind.”
He paused, wondering how
best to explain to Skeeter what
his duties were. With Davy it
was different. They had ridden
together for many moons and
there was an affinity between
them. Davy was a man and he
another, and they spoke the
language of men.
Skeeter, aware that the
arrangements were only two-
thirds complete, asked with
regrettable candor: “What do I
do?”
Davy bent the lantana-twig
carefully.
“You take Morrie’s knife,”
he told him, “and cut off the
biggest melon you can find.
You bring it back here while
Morrie and me cover your
retreat.”
TTHERE was a long pause as
Skeeter studied the implica-
tions of this arrangement.
“You got the easiest job,
being new,” Morrie encouraged
him.
“I dunno,” Skeeter began
dubiously. “After all, /do the
pinchin’. If they get the
coppers, who’s the bunny?”
Davy frowned at him. This
was not frontier-talk. Nor
frontier - sentiment. The
Br othe r h o o-d had never
reckoned the cost of any ven-
ture nor made calculations in
terms of odds.
“If you’re yeller, pardner,”
he drawled, “come right out and
admit it. I’ll do the cutting! ”
He held out his hand for the
knife with the disdain that may
have characterised Lady Mac-
beth as she held out her hand
for a similar instrument.
“It’s not that,” Skeeter said
hesitantly.
Davy dropped his hand.
“I’d feel happier if we could
all be in this together!” Skeeter
said.
“Three frontier-scouts to cut
off a melon?” Davy asked
coldly. “My little sister’s good
at cutting things up—l wished
I’d thought to bring her.”
There was no doubting the
reproof in his voice, the underly-
ing innuendo of disgust.
Skeeter seemed to wince, the
more so as Davy bestowed on
Morrie a look that said as
plainly as words that here their
evaluation of a man’s character
couldn’t have been wider of the
mark/
“Aw I’m not yeller,”
Skeeter decided. “See if I care
about cutting off the melon!”
Morrie handed him the "knife.
“After all,” he said in con-
ciliatory tones, “you’re a tender-
foot. Come through this O.K.
and you’re really one of us.
That right, Davy?”
Davy nodded.
“You can’t call yourself a
frontiersman, anyway, until
you ve been on a raid.
There was a pause, then Davy
went on: “We’ll meet here after
the raid is over. It that clear?
We’ll meet here, no matter
w^at -”
“No matter what!” echoed
Morrie.
He held out his hand to Davy
and they shook, this both to
remind and instruct Skeeter that
there was no turning back once
that solemn handclasp had been
made. They shook hands all
round.
“Now,” Davy said, “let’s
ride!”
They crawled off through the
lantana, Skeeter in between
them. As they went, the feeling
that he had been compromised
did not leave him.
TTP at the house the woman
who had been peeling
potatoes at the sink called out
softly: “Clem! Come and have
a look at this!”
Clem got up slowly from a
kitchen chair and set down the
magazine he had been reading,
“It's all hooey about that shark-repellant !”
He was a big man who moved
in the unhurried manner in
which he He bent down
and looked through the window,
following the direction, in which
his wife was pointing.
“Two boys in the melon-
patch,” the woman said.
“Three!” Clem corrected her.
“There’s another down by the
fence. See him?”
“I do now,” the woman said.
Clem moved towards the
kitchen door and disappeared
into the hallway. When he
returned he carried a double-
barrel shotgun.
“Just you put that gun back! ”
his wife warned him. “They’re
only boys—and they’ve pro-
bably got fathers who also
know how to shoot a gun. What
do you suppose you’re going to
do—really shoot them?”
Clem smiled that slow, easy
smile that she found at times
exasperating.
“I’d be quite within my rights
if I did.”
“That’s not the way to go
about it,” she said. “What
kind of a fool would you be
making of yourself? You’d
make world-headlines! ”
“What would you have me
do?” asked Clem. He took
another look through the window
and saw a boy in a coonskin cap
move by bounds into' the field,
then lie down.
“There’s organisation Of some
sort here,” he added. “Pro-
bably a gang of juvenile delin-
quents.”
“Try a little psychology,” sug-
gested his wife. “But certainly
don’t take the gun with you.”
“Psychology?” echoed Clem,
“On young thieves? Let me
remind you, my lady, .that I’m
one who always said they
should never have done away
with capital punishment. Do
you think I should bring ’em
all up here and set ’em down to
a n I.Q. test?”
“Not that!” the woman said,
“Just ask yourself why 'you
don’t like quinces! ”
Clem raised his eyebrows in
surprise and seemed about to
protest against this irrelevancy,
but suddenly he smiled that
slow, easy smile.
“Did I ever tell you about
that?” he asked.
“Your love of quinces gave
out when you were a boy,” she
reminded him. “An orchardist
caught you helping yourself
to his quinces. He gave you the
option of eating half-a-dozen of
them or a flogging. You told
me you ate three and then
settled for the flogging.”
Clem smiled and nodded his
head.
“I did, too,” he said “Never
ate another quince after that.”
“That orchardist handled the
matter pretty well,” Clem’s wife
said, “and if I remember rightly
his name wasn’t Freud. Just
you go down and make those
boys take a bit of the same
medicine. But be firm with
them ; and leave the gun here! ”
“Look!” Clem Said, breaking
open the gun. “It’s not loaded.
But the juvenile delinquents
won’t know that.”
He strode out on to the back
veranda and went into the
garden at the rear. Soon he had
disappeared into the bush
beyond the fence.
r THIS manoeuvre, because the
house restricted his field of
vision, was not observed by the
boy in the coonskin cap.
He lay, with palpitating heart,
his eyes riveted on the house and
its environs wondering why
Skeeter was taking so long to
cut a melon and carry it back
to the fence. He had an impulse
to shout out to him to hurry
up, but fought it down. Not
only might a shout bring a
Comanche war-party about their
ears, but his reputation as a cool
and fearless scout would suffer
when the inevitable post-mortems
on the raid were held.
Carefully he turned his head
to see how Skeeter was faring
and was both angry and alarmed
to see him crawling about
examining the melons, the knife
in his teeth. Skeeter had only to
cut a melon and withdraw —there
had been nothing said about him
going to great pains to pick the
largest or ripest. If Skeeter
thought he was going to go on
being one of 'the Brotherhood,
the first thing he had to cultivate
was strict obedience to orders.
No scout had the right to imperil
the lives of his comrades through
an indifference to orders.
A startled yell came from
Morrie. Despite their pre-
cautions something had gone
wrong. Davy turned about. He
could see Skeeter standing twenty
yards from him with a huge
melon in his hands. Beyond him
he could see a big man with a
gun under his arm striding along
beside the fence.
Davy fled towards the eastern
boundary of the field. He
stepped quickly on to the two
lower strands of the fence and
vaulted over. That both his
hands were cut in his haste did
not lessen his speed. Indeed, he
scarcely felt the pain as he
scuttled down across the creek
and disappeared into the lantana.
Skeeter, for his part, seemed
incapable of movement. He
continued to stand his ground,
looking in consternation at the
man with the gun, who had
vaulted the fence and was
coming up to him.
“Caught you red-handed, eh?”
the man said.
Skeeter lowered the melon to
the ground.
“I’d be quite within my rights
if I shot you,” Clem said sternly.
“You’re trespassing on my
property. And stealing!”
Skeeter looked at him in
alarm.
“Don’t shoot, mister!” he
pleaded.
/"''LEM set the butt of the gun
on the ground and rested
lightly on the barrel.
“Great mates you’ve got,” he
said. “Ran off and left you
to it!”
Skeeter looked desperately
about him as if seeking confirma-
tion of what he already knew.
“What’re their names?” Clem
demanded.
Skeeter looked down at his
feet but didn’t reply.
“Your mates,” Clem repeated.
“Who are they?”
Skeeter raised his face to his
in a small gesture of defiance.
Clem saw a tear form in his eye
and roll down his cheek.
“I —I can’t tell you,” he said.
“It’s a rule.”
Although the boy did not
notice as much, Clem’s expres-
sion softened a little.
“It’s also a rule that you don’t
steal,” he said. “That rule’s been
in the Bible for nearly two
thousand years.”
There was a long silence.
Another tear rolled sluggishly
down Skeeter’s cheek. He looked
forlornly about him.
“Mister,” he said, “I got no
money to pay for anything, but
you can have my watch. I got it
for me birthday.”
He dug a hand into his pocket
and produced a cheap pocket-
watch.
“No!” Clem said. “Put it
back! I don’t want your watch.
You trespass, steal, then offer a
bribe —I don’t know which is
worst.”
Skeeter slid the watch back
into his pocket, but now he was
biting his lip in an effort to keep
his tears in check.
“One thing,” Clem said, “you
didn’t run away. You stood your
ground.” He seemed to consider


gmuum
\&f,500,000 HOTEL
> \ V
\ HARVEY &. COLLINS
CONNOR PLACE OFFICE
/*:
<pzic&
fUll
489
a
pm
£
-O
-\ A
msfiSfg
%«*
35
\
rf
3
ft
:
tb
“•~~T rll\ ~£*<2P
N
N
3 3
m
'L
m
•4
SURFERS PARADISE
HOTEL
MONACO ST*
THb
\
VOID
EL DORADO
Motel
or
r**
W% 4
S
©
► =
JSBHHB
4-
LENNONS
L HOTEL ?
£
V
> .
y£j
A- 4u jI **< ■**•'•*»« a/<V «,'ri *i‘ ';.J
PRESENTED BY
n
mn
9SEEESB
m
MANAGING AGENTS
HEAD OFFICE: 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BW 4875.
BRISBANE.: 360 Queen Street. B 9230, B 5906.
SURFERS PARADISE: Connor Place, Pacific High-
way. X 1141
FREE!
Send this coupon now for FREE Brochure and
all details. NO OBLIGATION.
HARVEY & COLLINS PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
360 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Connor Place, Pacific Highway, Surfers Paradise.
Name
Address
..Phone No.
On behalf of SAVOY HOTELS LIMITED, SYDNEY
this behavior in the light of the
circumstances, then added, “If I
let you go, and don’t call the
police in on this here trespassing,
will you promise you’ll never
steal again?”
“I promise! ” Skeeter answered
promptly.
“All right, then ; beat it! And
tell your mates that if ever I
catch ’em about, here again I’ll
shoot ’em!”
“I’ll tell ’em, mister!” Skeeter
said.
He made to move off, but the
man stopped him.
“You may as well take the
melon now,” he said.
“Gee, thanks!” Skeeter said.
He picked up the melon and
put it beneath his arm. Without
a backward glaftce he set off
towards the tunnel under the
fence, four posts from the
corner.
WHEN he got back to the
house, Clem said : “I don t
think we’ll be having any more
trouble from that trio! ”
“I was watching that panto-
mime from the window,” his wife
told him; “I don’t think much
of your gunboat-diplomacy
freely giving that little monster
a melon he had come in here to
Clem smiled his slow, easy
smile and it angered her.
“I was ready to ring for the
police the moment that tot raised
a finger to strike you,” she said
tartly.
“Arr, you didn’t get the
complete picture,” Clem said
good-humoredly. “Did you see
him hold out his hand? Well,
there was a dollar in that hand
—the price of the melon. And
I also took his name and the
names of his' mates.”
“He’d give you their right
names, of course!” she said.
“He was scared stiff,” Clem
said. “He spoke the truth.”
“What were their names?”
she challenged him.
Clem smiled at her.
“It don’t matter,” he said.
“Even if I do forget ’em!”
“Clem Ansted,” she said,
“you’re a fool!”
Clem took up his magazine
again. *
“Boys are boys, Evie. Like
you said, it’s a matter of
psychology.* But you’ve got to
know just how to handle
’em” . . .9
OKEETER crawled through
the lantana and into the
clearing. There was no longer a
lump in his throat, nor did he
feel on the verge of tears. Which
was just as well, seeing that Davy
and Morrie were there waiting
for him.
“Gee!” Morrie said. “He’s
got a melon!”
“That was the idea, wasn’i it?”
Skeeter asked offhandedly. “To
get a melon?”
There was a profound silence.
He looked at them each in turn,
but they evaded his glance and
studied the melon.
“What happened?” Davy
asked at length, his eyes still
downcast.
“I got a melon,” Skeeter
replied. There was just a
suggestion of arrogance in his
voice.
“Not that!” Davy said. “The
man with the gun!”
Skeeter set the melon down
with great care and squatted in
front of it.
“Oh, him? I done me block!
1 knifed him!”
Davy and Morrie exchanged
horrified glances.
“You what?’’
“It was him or me,” Skeeter
said evenly, “and he had a gun.
Like I said, I knifed him. He
was a no-good damn’ Indian!”
“You hurt him real bad?”
Davy asked tremulously.
“He’s lying dead back in the
field,” Skeeter answered. “Of
course I didn’t leave the knife
there, with fingerprints and all
that. I wiped the blood on his
coat before I left.”
He showed them the knife to
verify what he said. Then care-
fully he began to cut segments
out of the melon.
“And now let’s have some-
thing to eat,” he said. “Killing
Indians kinda takes it outa ya! ”


Low's
Autobiography
UP TO THE END OF 4 covered David Low’s formative
days in his native New Zealand, to when he visited Sydney
to see “what kind of people” ran “The Bulletin,” which
had already been accepting a lot of his work.
5
I HERE was a day when New
Zealanders, with the good-
natured candor of next-door
neighbors, used to twit Aus-
“Australia? That penal
settlement? No thanks. I’m
off to England.”
“England? That place where all the
convicts come from?”
Nobody any longer thinks that the
early convicts who began the • modern
New South Wales were everything to be
ashamed of. Frequently they were men
of spirit and enterprise who refused to
stand obediently and rot. There were
many whose only fault was the admir-
able one of resistance to oppression.
Occasionally there were martyrs to great
causes. The men of Tolpuddle, fore-
fathers of modern trade-unionism, went
to Botany Bay.
A century later Sydney had become
the fifth-biggest port in the Empire, with
the third most beautiful harbor in the
world and the reputation of being, in
contrast to our simple honest New
Zealand towns, smart, tough and rather
wicked. It was known also as a nursery
for poets, writers and caricaturists.
The answer to the question: “Why
did Australia produce so many carica-
turists and comic artists?” was the Sydney
Bulletin, the red-covered weekly known
throughout Australia as “The Bushman’s
Bible.”
The men behind The Bulletin,
notably “Jules Francois” Archibald, a
master-journalist, and William Macleod,
an artist with solid business-ability, had
made it a major policy-of their paper to
encourage native Australian talent. The
supply of poets and writers began to flow
almost immediately. That of comic
artists and caricaturists had to be primed
at first by a couple of importations,
Livingston Hopkins (“Hop”) from
America anfl Phil May from Britain.
With these first-class masters setting the
standard in the eighteen-eighties and
-nineties, the local talent was not long
in appearing, and at the beginning of the
century The Bulletin had grown a
team of social and political artists it
would have been hard to- beat anywhere
in the world. In the matter of style and
ability in draughtsmanship, that was
good ; in the matter of satirical approach
and content, it was better.
The Bulletin was radical, rampant
and free, with an anti-English bias and
a preference for a republican form of
government. No more imported
Governors nor doggerel National
Anthems, no more pompous borrowed
generals, foreign titles, foreign capitalists,
cheap labor, diseased immigrants, if The
Bulletin could help it. The Crimson
Bonds of Empire be damned.
In domestic affairs it had the disrespect
for crusted custom proper to the press
of a new country. Its caricaturists found
in this spirit the perfect inspiration for
caustic satire. The ghost of Gillray, the
Scottish 17th-century master who in his
day had made Britain the home of carica-
ture with his robust gibes at the Georges,
came to life again in Australia in Phil
May’s cartoon of John Bull as the Angel
of Deliverance hovering over a possible
colony with a Bible in one hand and a
bottle of gin in the other ; and in Hop’s
classic “The Nation Mourns,” showing a
drunk with his tongue hanging out sitting
on the doorstep of a pub closed for the
day of Queen Victoria’s funeral.
By 1911 The Bulletin, like Australia,
had had some of its rough edges rubbed
off, but there was plenty of life in. the
old horse. It was the dearest wish of all
black-and-white artists to get into The
Bulletin. And into it I went for six-
months’ engagement. What luck!
The Bulletin I found was violently
nationalistic, with a free and independent
Australia as its aim and White Australia,
Federation and Protection as its watch-
words. That meant rigid immigration-
laWs; a strong defence-establishmept
Souter gets a Low deal here , the bear getting off with his cat.
NormAd
UNDSA /
AMC>
500-T6.R,
SwJoP
MODELS
based upon compulsory military train-
ing for home-defence ; the strengthening
of Commonwealth powers at the expense
of the States; and a high tariff-wall
against the world.
All three main ideas were in process
of realisation. As a side-issue of White
Australia, The Bulletin played-up the
“Yellow Peril,”' and cartoons of Japanese
monkeys up to devilish mischief were a
stock dish.
The sort of Federation The Bulletin
wanted had necessitated the scornful
rejection of Joseph Chamberlain’s
Imperialism, which had appeared in the
light, not of co-operation between
partners, but of integration in a plan for
exploitation by overseas capitalists
placing other considerations before that
of the welfare and progress of Australia.
If Australia, said The Bulletin, were
to become a nation she must have her
own local manufacturing industries.
Britain, in the character of a dumper of
cheap goods that would hinder the
growth of these industries, was as unwel-
come as any other foreign dumper. Aus-
tralia for the Australians! Australia a
nation! Advance Australia! Give
’em air, boys!
In pursuit of this theme The
Bulletin . grew vehement. High-
protection of local industry became
the principle of the Left in politics,
and, in contrast, abundant imports
became that of the Right, whose adherents
were dubbed by The Bulletin “Little
Australians.”
The Labor movement and, The
Bulletin had grown up side by side,
and the paper, agreeing with and inspir-
ing the party on many issues, especially
the tariff issue, became its natural advo-
cate, and the most influential political
voice in Australia. Whether the paper
supported or supplied the policy of the
party or vice versa might have been a
matter of opinion; but certainly The
Bulletin inspired the Labor party with
ideals and ideas to an
extent rare in political
journalism.
THE BULLETIN’S
ideas were not
always mine, and later
I was occasionally to
bump up against them.
But to start with my
subject-matter was to
be local affairs in
Victoria.
I was packed-off to
live and work in
Melbourne, under the
care of a fatherly
gentleman shining
with benevolence who
was to see me settled
and would advise me
on the new environ-
ment. I took a liking
on the spot to gentle
slow-voiced Ed Fisher.
No tenderfoot could
have had a kinder
cicerone. He had be-
gun his literary career
writing “poetry” for
In Memoriam notices
(“Where Jim has gone
we do not know, but
how we miss him here
below” type of thing),
and eventually gradu-
ated into manage-
ment of the Mel-
bourne office of The
Bulletin, the tedium
of which he relieved
by writing light verse
and reminiscences.
Ed was English to the backbone, and
showed it by his appearance and deport-
ment, barely concealing a faint contempt
for Australians. His connection with
The Bulletin sometimes gave him inner
pain.
There had been, for instance, the
incident at a restaurant during the cele-
bration of the Relief of Mafeking when
he, in reality a devoted patriot, was made
Celebrating Bill Squires's marriage at
Tamworth (N.S.W.): ”Bill has finally
relinquished his punch”—a punch he.
was always going to deliver to
somebody.
the object of public contumely as the
only representative present of The
Bulletin and its pro-Boer policy; the
end of the matter being that he was
obliged to stand out and sing “Rule
Britannia” solo, as though he had not
wished to.
This and similar embarrassments had
saved him from excessive loyalty to
official Bulletin policy. This suited me
down to the ground, as it promised me
elbow-room. Six-hundred miles from the
head-office, we were practically on our
own hook. My work was to produce a
weekly page of about twelve topical
drawings.
I was ignorant of the matters from
which I was to draw material, but The
Bulletin, I found, had a practice at
that time of “feeding” its cartoonists with
suggestions contributed by journalists and
bthers on a basis of five-shillings apiece,
if used. Certainly, in artistic performance,
idea and treatment are two sides of the
same penny, and a cartQonist who does
not supply his own ideas is only half a
cartoonist. But at that time„THE Bulletin
arrangement was highly convenient to me,
arriving green and innocent from afar,
especially since I had the selection.
TFT was summer. I was’twenty. I was
working for the fabulous Bulletin.
I had real money in my pockets —ten-
pounds a week. I found new friends with
houses by the sea, and I enjoyed for the
first time the luxury of sprawling on the
grass through the long warm Australian
evenings in the congenial company of
artists, poets and writers, with the sea
pounding the beach a hundred yards
away. This was happiness and time passed
quickly.
My six months were not marked by
historic cartoonable events, except
perhaps for the founding of a new Capital
City of the Commonwealth. A mighty
company of notables from the four
corners of Australia were assembled on
the bare plain of Canberra for the
ceremony of laying the foundation-stone.
A press photograph of the scene


includes me crowding, with prescient tact-
lessness, William Morris Hughes for a
good view, and, a short distance off, a
small brown dog, presumably ownerless
and uninvited.
Of this dog I can now reveal an
incident which I prefer to describe not
as hushed-up but as merely unrecorded
until now. The company had listened to
the appropriately lofty discourses, sung
the right hymns. The Governor-General’s
plumes quivered as he tapped the stone
with his trowel and solemnly declared it
well and truly laid. Whereupon, before
anyone could stop it, the small brown
dd| sociably trotted up and christened it
for him.
The work was within my range, but I
did not spare myself ,in trying to set the
Yarra River on fire. When at the end of
my engagement in Melbourne I found
that I had done well enough to merit
permanent attachment to The Bulletin
staff on a modest retainer, I could take
stock. I was jaded with overwork. I
needed exercise and a quiet think. The
annual holiday for everyone, universally
accepted later, was not usual then in
Australia, and although I had travelled
about alone and in company, journeys to
the country or the seaside with no other
purpose than an enjoyable loaf would
have seemed absurd. And, anyway, I
had no money to spare.
I decided on a cheap idea that met all
the points. I would walk the six-hundred
miles to Sydney. I had to get there,
anyhow.
It is one thing to sing about “Waltzing
Matilda” and another to do it. Off I
went with blanket, tin billycan and frying-
pan. I had heard of the tradition of
station hospitality in Australia whereby
shearers and seasonal farm-workers
humping the bluey from station to station
could count on handouts of a pinch of
tea, a handful of flour and a bunk almost
as a right. With my soft hands I was too
obviously no shearer, but for all that the
tradition often held.
A fellow footslogger taught me how
to cook out of flour and water that Aus-
tralian standby, a damper. I slept in
some queer dumps, when necessary
cutting some wood or doing odd jobs
for my keep. When I had no luck I
parked under the sky, in Starlight Hotel.
I kept off the main roads, because in
those days the rough macadam was hard
on the feet, and in taking short-cuts I
often blundered far off the mark into
little more than tracks. Sometimes it
was very lonely, and I had the wide
open spaces to myself all day. Just me
and Nature. What quiet happiness to
awaken in the crisp dawn, de-blanket,
without having to shave or wash or
change shirt, leisurely start a fire, boil-up
and fry my simple meal, put on a pipe,
make a sketch of a tree and then amble
away into the blue with my shadow in
front of me . . . What fools we are to
forget the delights of simplicity.
I MADE one big mistake. As I had
mapped it, I could usually expect to
find a pub or some kind of shanty about
every fifteen or twenty miles. But I had
forgotten the big drought which during
the»preyious summer had baked-up the
As High Commissioner in London, George Reid had arranged
gramophone-cinematograph in schools throughout the U.K.
Riverina and driven everybody south. I
hadn’t bargained for dead pubs.
It was after a long weary day’s pull
that I arrived in the evening %t what
should have been, according to my map,
a bush pub. I had planned to get a
drink, a meal and perhaps a bed here.
But things had happened. The place was
dried-up and deserted, windows out,
doors hanging on a screw. Picked clean.
They don’t seem to have changed a great deal since then.
The wall off, nary a stray bottle. Not
a soul.
In the gathering dusk the strange
silence brooding over the dead pub began
to chill my blood. All the same, I
thought, I will doss here for the night.
Clearing a place in the corner, I unhitched
my blanket, pulled it around me and was
soon dead to the world.
I awoke suddenly. It was black night.
Silence hung heavy. I saw with a start
two points of light, Eyes. Another
pair . . . and another . . . and another. A
myriad army was looking at me steadily.
I was evidently surrounded. Dread crept
over my heart. In the dark I felt for a
loose plank near by and lifting it in both
hands I hurled it at the foe.
Crash! There was a squeaking scuffle
.. . and the eyes resumed their intent gaze
as if nothing nad happened. More of
them than ever. I decided to pack-up and
get out. If I had to fight for it, I would
sell my life dearly.
Stealthily gathering together my
blanket and roping my bluey over my
shoulder, I armed myself with another
chunk of wood. Charge! Laying about
me right and left with my clumsy club,
I took two flying steps through the open
wall. There were scurrying shapes and
eyes everywhere—millions of them it
seemed. I have never seen so many
rabbits. Whether emboldened by their
numbers or by their needs in this parched
habitation, they were certainly not as
frightened of me as I was of them, and
they hardly bothered to get out of my
way as I hurried to put a respectable
distance, between myself and what felt
like an H. G. Wells nightmare.
It occurred to me since what a
newspaper headline it would have made:
“Low Devoured by Rabbits.”
I was on the road for eight weeks —
four-hundred-and-fifty miles walking,
the rest lifts. The whole trip costume
four-pounds. At the end of it, after a
bath with all the trimmings at the pub
and a day in bed, I felt better than I have
ever felt before or since. All ready to
tear the town apart in a new assign-
ment.
Hope deferred. There was no regular
spot for me in Sydney. Meanwhile The
Bulletin retained me as a kind of roving
contributor to range the length and
breadth 6f Australia, transport charges
but not living expenses paid, making
caricature-portraits of local notables.
How I was to do this was to be my
own concern. Buzz off.
»
THE distances were enormous and the
difficulties such as to strain my
ingenuity; but, as it worked out, the
narrow margin between expenses and
earnings left me no time to worry about
that.
Usually I arrived in a new town not
knowing a soul, starting from scratch
with perhaps two or three names of
leading personalities and the merest
smattering of local lie-of-the-land. My
method was simple. First I found a good
cheap place to five, with a table and a
chair and the loan of a long mirror in
which I could pose myself as model for
difficult pieces of drawing. The latter
was a “must.” I put up with some dread-
ful witches of landladies because of my
regard for their mirrors. Then I looked
around to see what functions were
impending and in the photographer’s
windows to-see what local worthies were
on show. Then, armed with effrontery
and persistence and my beautifully
engraved visiting-card: “D. Low, The
Bulletin, Sydney” (my father’s lesson
about quality in advertising had left its
mark on me), I found the Town Hall and
called on the Mayor.
Few Australian Mayors were so lacking
in vanity as to refuse audience to a repre-
sentative of The Bulletin, however
much of a stripling he might turn out to
be. Once in, I was usually able to
establish pleasant relations by a well-
rehearsed routine to the effect that the
importance of his town had now become
so appreciated in Sydney that it was
judged advisable that the leading men of
this paragon community should be better
known, and for this purpose I was there
to draw their portraits, starting with
himself as its first citizen.
While His Worship posed for me he
would certainly ask: “Who else are you
drawing?” (If he did not, I made it my
business to put the question into his
mouth.) To which I would reply:
“Whom would you suggest?” After
that, usually all that was necessary was
to let Nature take its course and allow
one notable to pass me on to another,
sorting out the worthy from the unworthy
during the process.
It rarely failed. But when it did it
made no difference, for I developed a
memory-technique of drawing with my
forefinger on the palm of my hand that
so impressed the lines of my Mayor on
my mind that I could draw His Worship
from memory as soon as I got outside.
Whereupon I passed on to my next
prospect with a similar routine.
AS I moved around and a town opened
a flower to me, my progress was
like that of a snowball, beginning with
civil importunities and building up
cumulatively to favored-guest invitations.
I scooped in an average of eight to ten
portraits a week and on the way collected
a wide variety of social experiences.
But if I had my share of kindliness
and hospitality I had also some snubs.
There was, for instance, the mortifying
occasion when I was forcibly ejected
after a brawl from an office in Perth,
Western Australia. But that was as proxy
for The Bulletin rather than on my own
account, for the man I had come to draw
had a grudge against the paper, not
particularly against me. Not that that
made any difference to my bruises.
An incident in Tasmania was typical of
one kind of difficulty. A Hobart City
Father of very picturesque appearance
had agreed to sit for me at his home.
After, he asked if he could see my notes.
Like a fool I showed him. An expression
of horror contorted his face. “No, No,
NO!” he said, tearing the sheets in two
and throwing them on the blazing fire.
I was speechless with indignation.
“Leave my house!” he said, and I had
to, it being his house. It made no real
difference, anyway, since I remembered
the notes. But after that, whenever
similar trouble seemed likely to arise, I
manufactured two sets of notes —one for
use, one for show.
As a contrast, I remember softly an
octogenarian philanthropist in Adelaide.
I found him sitting at his desk, silk-hat on
head, with an absent air making piles
out of a little heap of golden sovereigns.
I was a little embarrassed to find my
attempts at polite conversation completely
ignored, but I went on making my notes.
It was only when I rose to go that my
subject opened his. mouth. He gave me a
foggy look and said: “Have you any
money?” Astounded, I replied:
“Certainly.” “Here,” he said, carefully
removing the topmost sovereign of the
heap and handing ik to me. I was
impelled to rebuff the indignity, blit I
could not frustrate the dear old man’s
goodwill.
TT SEE now, through age and experience,
li that to some my requests for co-opera-
tion musk have seemed impertinent, and
my intent mischievous, if not downright
malicious.
I was so deeply preoccupied with the
business of drawing that I sometimes
overlooked the fact that those with only
the vulgar conception of caricature as
aimless distortion of physical short-
comings could have had no inkling of my
own view of it. How could I have
explained my eagerness to find its art, my
zest to try to capture and reduce to visual
terms that most elusive of all qualities,
individuality? Whilst so engaged it
seemecl to me self-evident that to concern
myself with the emotional reactions of
my subject would be degrading to us
both.
Believing this, 1 bore with private
contempt those who childishly assumed
that the aim of my caricatures was merely
to be “funny.” Refusal to sit for me I
could ascribe only to churlishness or plain
damned ignorance.' Hindrance was
stupidity to be overridden or
circumventecj.
To redress the elusiveness of *the
“material” in my New Zealand youth I
had discovered that unobtrusiveness in
dress and behavior could get me
unnoticed into places and situations
where my presence was uninvited, or even
prohibited. I became interested in bring-
ing this* unobtrusiveness by experiment
almost to a science, to be turned on and
off like a tap. I dressed deliberately to
merge into backgrounds, avoided full
stares, noisy coughs, rapid movements,
isolated stands, strong lights—anything,
in fact, that was in the least likely to
attract attention.
In addition, I made a deliberate attempt
to think softly, to contract my personality
and subdue my “rays.” Sometimes, I am
sure, I was so unobtrusive you could
hardly have told I was present. I got near
{Continued on page 25)


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(.Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WADES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. P. THORPE, MANAGER.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO: ......
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
(NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or NX.
British Empire £2/13/6 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Missing Friend
WILL any person having knowledge of t|ie
whereabouts of FREDERICK RICH, last
heard of in Australia 50 years ago, or of
his Sister FANNY RICH (married ngine
believed to be MARSH)* last heard of in
Australia 20 years ago, or of any descen-
dant or other relative of these persons,
please communicate with ENOCH EVANS
& SONS, Solicitors, 19 Bridge Street,
Walsall, Staffs, England ?
„
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
TO JOHN MILLINGTON late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that THELMA MILLING-
TON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4298 of 1956 on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Ist day of March 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG
& CO., Solicitors, of 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD RODGER ROBISON late of
18 Thrupp Street Neutral Bay in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY JUNE ROBISON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8833
of 1956 on the ground of your habitual
drunkenness and leaving hf her without
support during three years l and upwards
and habitual drunkenness and cruelty
during three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of February 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. COLREAVY & O’LEARY,
Solicitors, 26 Bridge Street, Sydney, city
agents for W. H. LUCHETTI, Solicitor,
137 Pacific Highway, North Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO JOAN URSULA COOPER formerly of
79 Pomona Road Launceston in the State
of Tasmania, Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that KENNETH COOPER of 12
Hampton Road Keswick in the State of
South Australia Aircraft Mechanic has
issued a Writ for Divorce No. 101 of 1956
on the ground of desertion for three years
If you desire to be heard you must file, an
appearance at the Master’s Office Supreme
Court Adelaide South Australia within 30
days of this advertisement otherwise
orders for divorce and custody of the
infant children of the marriage may be
made against you in your absence. —
RODER & DUNSTAN, Royal Insurance
Building, 13 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
. A Christmas-gift to
Fascinoto-
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the following: Pioneers on
Parade, by Miles Franklin ; Prelude
to Waking and Back to 800 l 8001,
from the “Brent of Bin Bin” series.
—6432.
To buy Bekker’s Swastika at Sea
and Darling’s Ribbons and Medals.
—6434.
Words of the verse (possibly called
“Anzac”) that contains the following
lines:
So now that we the wallaby must take.
Sundowners still, our hearts with
memories ache....
and
The Manuka will bring from Maoriland
Her fragrance and her snows.
—6433.
Mr. R. E. Evans writes from Wales
seeking information on the where-
abouts of Rev. H, Jones and family,
friends he made on visits here with the
Royal Navy during the last war. They
were at that time living at Lewisham
(Sydney). His adress is 27 Cambrion-
street, Holyhead, North Wales.
Information Sought
Brief particulars of Richard Rouse,
of Rouse Hill?
Bom in Oxford (Eng.) on Feb. 26,
1774, he came to Australia as a free
settler in the Nile, which left England,
on June 21, 1801, and reached Port
Jackson on Dec. 15 that year. (His
wife, Elizabeth, gave birth to their
second child" and eldest son, John
Richard, on board on the voyage out.)
Shortly after his arrival he was given
a grant of land on the Hawkesbury,
and during the course of the next 20
years received several other grants in
various districts (in the 1828 census
he was described as a professional
farmer of Bathurst, owning 2740 acres
there). From 1805 till 1825, except
for a time around 1808 when he lost
the position through his support of
Governor Bligh, he was Super-
intendent of Public Buildings at Parra-
matta. In this capacity he was
overseer of convict building-gangs,
and he has the credit for building St.
Matthew’s Church, Windsor (1817),
various buildings in Parramatta, toll-
gates, etc. In 1816 he was given a
grant of land by Macquarie at
Vinegar Hill, near Windsor, which he
named Rouse Hill, and which was his
principal residence. There he bred
horses of the “Crooked R” brand,
famous in colonial Australia as a
symbol of good horseflesh. To quote
Paterson:—
This old black horse I’m riding—if you’ll
notice what’s his brand,
He wears the Crooked R, you see—none
better in the land.
Rouse had nine children, two of
whom died ip infancy ; one daughter,
Jane, married Alfred Kennerley,
Premier of Tasmania (1873-76). He
died on May 10, 1852.
**. * *
What was the name of the ship that
came in for criticism for not going to
the aid of the sinking Titanic ? What
was the aftermath ?
The ship was the Californian. A
commission, under the presidency of
Lord Mersey, was appointed m
London by the British Government to
inquire into the sinking, and the
verdict on the Californian’s failure to
offer assistance was one of the interest-
ing aspects. After having met on
36 days, it arrived at its finding, and
on July 30, 1912, Lord Mersey read
the report (which, incidentally, took
2j-hrs.—the time that elapsed between
the Titanic’s collision with the ice-
berg and her sinking). The commis-
sion found that the Californian
could have pushed through the ice to
the open water without serious risk,
and so have gone to the rescue of the
Titanic. They advised that ship-
masters be reminded by the Board
of Trade that it is a misdemeanor not
to go to the assistance of a vessel in
distress when this is possible. In a
letter sent to the press on Aug. 12,
Captain Lord, skipper of the
Californian, replied to the criticism:
“I did not hear of the disaster until
daylight... .The evidence is con-
clusive that none of the responsible
officers of the Californian were aware
of the serious calamity which had
taken place.. .'.The absence of any
reply to the succession of Morse
signals made ‘from the bridge of the
Californian is further evidence which
is entitled to some consideration
That any seaman would wilfully
neglect signals of distress is prepos-
terous and unthinkable.”
*** . *
What is an Australian citizen?
The Nationality and Citizenship
Act 1948 commenced on Australia
Day (Jan. 26), 1949, and repealed all
previous Commonwealth legislation
on this subject. The Act’s most
significant effect was the creation for
the first time of the status of “Aus-
tralian citizen.” Australian citizen-
ship was automatically acquired as
from Jan. 26, 1949, by persons who
were British subjects and who
(a) were born in Australia or New
Guinea ; or ( b ) were naturalised in
Australia ; o# (c) had been residing
in Australia during the five years
immediately preceding Jan. 26, 1949 ;
or were born outside Australia of
fathers to whom (a) or ( b ) applied
(provided the persons concerned had
entered Australia without being
placed under any immigration restric-
tion) ; or (e) were women who had
been married to men who became
Australian citizens under the above
headings (provided they had entered
Australia without being placed under
any immigration restriction). For the
purpose of the Act, “Australia”
includes Norfolk Island and the
Territory of Papua, and by an amend-
ment of the Act in 1950 it was further
provided that Nauru be treated in the
same manner as New Guinea. (All
Australian citizens and the citizens
of other countries of the British
Commonwealth are declared to be
British subjects.)
* * * *
(I) Is there a star named Medusa ?
(2) One named Medea, Mer\sa, or
something similar ?
(1) Medusa, or the Medusa’s Head,
is a cluster of stars in the constella-
tion Perseus, one of the most familiar
constellations in the northern sky.
Medusa includes the famous bright
star Algol (or Beta Persei), sometimes
called the “Blinking Demon,” which
“winks” at intervals of exactly 2 days
21brs. The reason for this, discovered
by Vogel in 1889, is that a huge dimly-
lighted sun revolves around it in that
time at a distance of 3,000,000 miles,
and, when it comes in front, Algol’s
light is reduced, for a very brief
interval, to a third of its usual bright-
ness. This phenomenon has been
known from ancient times, and was a
source of terror to the Arabs, who
feared that it foretold a disaster. (2)
There does not appear to be any star
named Medea, though Crater (the
Cup), in the constellation Hydra, has
been variously called the Cup of
Hercules, the Cup of Achilles, the
Wine Cup of Noah and the Cup of
Medea. Mensa (the Table) is a con-
stellation lying near the South
Celestial Pole, between the constella-
tions Carina and Dorado (which
includes S Doradus, the most power-
ful known star ; with a luminosity
equal to 300,000 suns like ours, it
pours out as much radiation in a
single minute, says Jeans, as 'the sun
does in a whole year). Musca (the
Fly) is a constellation near Mensa.
Other stars with names beginning with
“M” include Merope and Maia, in the
Pleiades ; Mizar (actually two stars),
on the handle of the Big Dipper ;
Mirfak, the brightest star in Perseus ;
and Myra (the Wonderful), on the
long giraffe-like neck of the constella-
tion Cetus. Myra, 23 light years
away, is invisible to the naked eye for
nine months each year, then for three
months becomes very bright, blazing-
up each year 1000 to 1500 times its
ordinary brilliance —an unexplained
mystery.
Brief Answers
8.5. M.: The article “The Ruined
City of Arnhem Land,” by Jack
Wood, appeared in The Bulletin
for Sept. 26, 1956.,,.E.H. (N.Z.):
Write the Recording Society of Aus-
tralia, P.O. Box 59, Rozelle, N.S.W.
R.D.: Yes, Nina Ponomareva
came to Australia. She was third in
the discus-throw... .R.McW.: Write
Biological Division, Imperial
Chemical Industries of Australia and
New Zealand, Ltd., 251 George-
street, Sydney L.S.: ‘‘Quadrant”
is a quarterly and is obtainable from
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney ; subscrip-
tion, 16s. per annum B.J:M.: The
Overlander Sqngbook, obtainable
from the Rams Skull Press, Lording-
street, Lower Ferntree Gully, Victoria;
price 7s. 6d A.P.: The Steele
Rudd Memorial was unveiled on
October 14, 1956, by V. C. Gair,
Premier of Queensland, at the Bris-
bane General Cemetery, Toowong
E.J.S.: (1) Prime Minister Chamber-
lain announced that Great Britain was
at war with Germany on Sept. 3,
1939. Next day the following War
Cabinet was announced: Prime
Minister and First Lord of the
Treasury, Neville Chamberlain ;
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir
John Simon ; Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs, Viscount Halifax ;
Minister for Co-ordination of
Defence, Lord Chatfield ; First Lord
of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill;
Secretary of State for War, Leslie
Hore-Belisha ; Secretary of State for
Air, Sir Kingsley Wood ; Lord Privy
Seal, Sir Samuel Hoare ; Minister
without Portfolio, Lord Hankey. (2)
Hore-Belisha had been Secretary of
State for War since 1937 R.A.R.:
(1) Whitaker’s figures: length, 100
miles ; depth, 34ft. ; width, 197 ft.
(2) The canal will take all but the
largest ships. (3) From the Aus-
tralian Encyclopcedia: “His body
[Cook’s], with those of four slain
marines, remained in possession of the
natives [at Karakakoa Bay in the
Sandwich Islands], During the 15th
[February, 1779] it was
ascertained that the body
had been in part used for a feast of
chiefs. .The natives still remaining
hostile and insolent, their village was
fired on the 17th ; and on the 20th
and 21st what was left of the body
(part of the skull and scalp, the hands
and the bones of the limbs) was
brought down with solemnity to the
beach by a chief, handed over to
Clerke (who was now in command)
and at sunset buried at sea”....
E.V.S.: “Punch’s” Punch is derived
from the same Italian origin as the
Punch of “Punch and Judy”—
Punchinello ( Pulcinella, Poiicinella),
whose own derivation is one of much
conjecture ; but over the years the
little man appears to have gained
rather than lost color by his obscure
history. The Everyman’s definition of
him ties in well with “Punch”: “A
traditional figure of the Commedia
dell’ Arte having something in
common with Harlequin (Arlecchine).
He wears a black mask and a large
nose, is a rogue and a braggart, with
a rough country wit.”. As for those
other elfin figures, who knows?
H.G.8.: Should imagine they’d have
that well organised L.E.S.: (1)
Infinity. (2) Minus infinity
L.T.M.: Easiest to cut the suckers
from the main root and, instead of
digging-up the entire lawn, dig small
holes (about lin. diameter) where the
suckers have been cut-off. Pour into
these holes a l-in-3 solution of the
weedicide 245T —about, an eggcupful.
This may make that portion of the
lawn brown for a while, but it should
be green again after a month or so.
Do this very carefully, and you
should have no more trouble. For
any further information, write Arthur
Yates and Co. Pty., Ltd., Box 2707,
G.P.0., Sydney C.W.: “Mr.
Dooley” was the pseudonym of F.
Peter Dunne... .T.Y.: The Oaks
Stakes (Epsom) of 1909 was won by
Sir William Cooper’s Perola, ridden
by Frank Wootton... .A.W.R.: For
1951-52, there were 7361 employed in
the- confectionary-industry in Aus-
tralia ; 3035 in N.S.W. ; 3216 in
Victoria.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.E.: When last sighted the
chorus-girl was kicking her shapely
legs in the basket J.R.W.: Heaven
knows what will be the reaction from
George’s River to Port Hacking, but
here goes:
The Como girls are full of guile,
And Jannali’s flappers never smile.
The Miranda belles want your money,
And Cronulla nymphs look awful funny.
Kurnell bints just chatter, chatter—
At Gunnamatta they’re getting fatter.
Gymea bobbysoxers stand and gape;
At Woolooware they have no shape.
At Lilli Pilli they’re very silly;
At Caringbah they’re just as dilly,
A Bundeena damsel has no charm;
A Kirrawee cutie will do you harm.
At Yowie Bay they grin like lizards,
At Woronora they’ll slit your gizzards.
In short, from George’s River to Port
Hacking
They all deserve a darned good smacking.
P.A.: Your jingle just jangles
along in a stereotyped fashion
C.H.C.: Yarn about total-abstainer
who found himself locked up in an
inebriates’ home doesn’t ring true.
J.B.C.: Husband who plans to kill
wife discovers gold while digging her
grave; wife murders husband, buries
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
him in the grave and bolts with the
gold—no thank you M.H.: Please
call and collect one dozen dancing
girls W.A.H.: Almost an Aus-
tralian classic:
The tucker to take
In a picnic hamper
is plum-duff, johnny-cake,
Corned-beef and damper!
L.M.T.: Introduced widow to
the Religious Editor, who declared
that she was no lady J.F.M.: Far
too longwinded for The Bulletin.
R.F.: ‘‘Steele Rudd” got in
ahead of you by more than half
a century C.C.: Whereabouts in
Australia dp they talk in that strange
dialect? A-McC.: “Poem written
after a lobster supper” merely gave us
indigestion H.P.T.: We first met
that rich uncle from Fiji away back
in the ’nineties L.T.R.: No action —
nothing doing..,. R.G.: Begins well
in Sydney and ends well in Bourke,
like a snake cut in halves S.M.:
Thirty tedious pages lead up to one
farewell kiss, and then he goes on
like your story into oblivion....
W.M.T.: Well if you begin by creating
your people in action and
dialogue instead of writing about
them they may very well do the
rest of the story for you S.P.V.:
No objection to glamor-pusses; who
has? But you don’t know what
makes them tick —and it ain’t always
love, brother B.B.: You’ve made
a long short story out of a short short
story 5.1.: It’s the old Australian
complaint; you can draw people as
well as anyone, but you feel that
altering them to fit a story would be
making them live a fie...
There should be a graveyard for
worn-out story-characters, and there
they might rest in peace... .F.E.N.:
Everyone has to write that drunk-at-
the-typewriter story, and at last
you’ve got it off your chest... .E.H.:
Liked your evening in the suburbs,
but you didn’t make the end con-
vincing... .J.D.: You spoil story
after story by trying to philosophise
the conclusion... .8.P.: Not in the
bidding for “The Garden of Eden.
....L.M.E.: Just words flung on
paper E.D.: No, it’s not even in
the “Bellerive” class M.C.T.: We
seldom get them as feeble as that.
N.J.S.: One umrhymed stanza
from your poem on modern women:
In these enlightened times,
They still expect a hard-won bus-seat
To be yielded by the Male,
And show indignation when this isn’t done
By sour looks, and acid remarks,
And letters to the papers.


to invisibility as I sleeked myself into
forbidden places.
The technique required minor varia-
tions, of course, according to
circumstances.
Usually there are enough officials
about big public meals or receptions to
fall over one another. Any confusion is
apt to be put down to other fellows’
incompetence. When 1 wanted to gate-
crash such things I walked into the
dining-hall boldly like an official and
altered the place-cards so that Mr. Low
got a good seat.
Sometimes I did it too well. An official
luncheon of welcome was given at
Adelaide for a number of distinguished
people just arrived from England. I
had put myself sitting amongst a number
of strangers who assumed that I was one
of the welcomed.
All went well. The principal guest,
whose name I forget, was called upon
to reply. The chairman then said: “It
gives me great pleasure to call upon Mr.
Henry Stead, the distinguished British
journalist, to say a few words.”
I suddenly realised that he was looking
at me. I was petrified. The most
embarrassing moment of my life. Imagine
my relief to hear behind me the soothing
sound of the words: “Mr. Chairman and
gentlemen . . issuing from the real
Henry Stead from the seat in the corner
at which I had placed him when I had
taken his seat.
Subsequently Henry Stead became a
particular friend of mine; but 1 never
heard him rise to make a speech without,
a shiver.
When after my travels I looked at my
four-hundred portrait-caricatures
collected in a book —my first real book —
I saw that, although I had succeeded in
avoiding flashy “lightning-sketch”
rubbish, my aim at the psychological
essence had achieved, except 'in a vei;y
few cases, only wooden superficiality.
The reason was clear. A good piece of
caricature represents not only what the
artist sees but what he knows about what
he draws. The nature of the job had
not allowed me sufficient time to get to
know enough of the people who lived
within these visible shells. . -
Well, 1 had learned that much any-
way ; and towards the end I was drawing
better caricature-portraits than at the
beginning.
TT NCIDENTALLY, and quite apart
from drawing, 1 had learned also more
about myself. The job had demanded a
deal of energy and concentration. But I
had had some left for other interests.
Being for the time a free wanderer, the
master of my own time and unhindered
by the solicitude of relatives and friends,
I took the opportunity to satisfy my
curiosity upon some of my own
capacities.
A period followed which might have
been called “experimental living.” I had
wondered what it felt like to starve, and
I wanted to know how long I could go
without food, so I stopped eating and
lived on water. The answer was eight
days. On the eighth day I grew alarm-
ingly weak and hysterical. My kind old
landlady, to whom I babbled an explana-
tion of my condition, sent me to bed and
broke my fast with a cup of warm diluted
milk, followed by a good “talking-to” as
dessert. “Poor boy! Poor boy! ”
The dear old soul quite naturally con-
cluded that I had starved myself to pay
her the rent. How could I ’ explain to
her that I was the result not of destitution
but of scientific curiosity?
How cheaply could one live? was
another of my personal guinea-pig
investigations. It involved my living for
a month on 12s. 6d. a week—bed, board,
including loan of long mirror and all —
while at the same time keeping a respect-
able front. I was happy enough sleeping
in an outhouse ; but F got very tired of
sausages-and-mashed at fourpence a plate
~my big meal of the day. Going
without alcoholic drinks was no great
deprivation for me, since I drank very
little; but giving up cigars was misery.
By the time that travelling job was
ended for lack of material I had acquired
considerable self-confidence and some
polish in company. I had viewed the
national resources of Australia at first-
hand, been personally conducted down
goldmines, through factories, vineyards,
orchards, runs and ranges. I had chewed
sugarcane and wheat and slapped cattle
and sheep. I had travelled Australia from
end to end, visited the Parliaments and
institutions of all six States, and made
personal contact with practically every-
one of importance in the continent from
aboriginal King Billy of Budgaree down-
wards. A useful prelude to a career as a
full-blown political cartoonist for The
Bulletin.
BUT that had to wait. The Bulletin’s
staff of political cartoonists all
seemed aggressively healthy and unlikely
to pass away to make a place for me.
Rather, I fancied with impatience, the
opposite. Meanwhile I moved in as a
sort of general utility, having a cut at
everything jokes, portrait-caricatures,
story illustrations.
This ‘was the first —and last—time ,1
ever worked in an editorial office. The
experience was of no value to me as a
guide to future conduct, because this one
in 1913 was like no other office on earth.
The Bulletin was a magnet to talent in
Australia, and wisely kept a kind of open
house for bush poets, artists and writers,
who just naturally came to it as they
might come home. The small fry sat on
the benches provided in the front-office,
the big fish, names legendary in Australia,
wandered around the building.
The place was agog with callers, and
there was no defensive commissionaire
in those days [nor, of course, has there
ever been] to regulate the traffic up and
down the stairs of the editorial depart-
ment.
Heaven knows how the paper ever
managed to reach publication. One of
the prized decorations in the sub-editor’s
room was a plaster model of straining
figures lugging a demonic shape by the
tail out of a pit, with the carved caption:
“Look! We’ve Got It Out Again!”
Camped out in a third-floor room
which I appropriated for my workroom, I
had the intermittent inspiration of people
passing through. Henry Lawson bubbling
with secret mirth and making cabalistic
signals about his current financial
position (when, forty years later, I look
at a photograph of the Sydney statue of
an unfamiliar Henry living up to the
character of Australia’s most beloved
poet, I wish someone had carved on the
plinth his immortal line: “Beer makes
you feel as you ought to feel without
beer”); Randolph Bedford, The
Bulletin’s own Pacific traveller, whose
adventures would have made
Munchausen’s hair curl; poets galore,
including the gentle Roderic Quinn and
the uproarious Hugh McCrae; story-
tellers by the bunch—this chap with some
impossible tale of how he seduced a
beautiful Spaniard in the stokehold of a
J. F. ARCHIBALD
sinking ship ; that chap airing his theory
that Australia was really on top of the
world and consequently Britain and
Europe were the real Antipodes.
Sometimes Norman Lindsay would
appear from his Blue Mountains fastness,
a birdlike man of rapid speech with sharp
intelligent eyes. This was Norman’s hey-
day, when he was busy proving that 'he
was the best penman of his generation,
his talent shining so brightly as to dim
lesser lights into insignificance. I could
hardly speak to him for reverence. But
his admirers filled the landscape, and, as
is usual with admirers, tended to crowd
out newcomers, anyway.
It was queer to find myself plonked
down in the midst of these characters,
many of whom had been until yesterday
remote gods to me.
($5 OMETIMES on the doorstep I met
Archibald, the genius who had begun
it all, who in his latter days had become
garrulous and wanted listeners. We
would go for a ride. We rode in a buggy
through the Sydney Domain eating
pickled-gherkins from a bottle he found
in his pocket, and he told me all about
the people he didn’t like.
We met John Norton, newspaper
magnate, the founder of Norton’s
“Truth” and himself a most sensational
ornament of the “sensation press.” He
was also the world’s prize curser. He
decorated his speech quite naturally with
the foulest adjectives I have ever heard,
and to make matters worse, he seemed
to have a fixed idea that everybody was
deaf.
I was aghast when we pulled up at a
tea-kiosk and he called at the top of his
voice for some “ -ing tea and sand-
wiches,” using his favorite adjective. The
management, however, evidently accus-
tomed to these invasions, sent a pretty
waitress with just their completely sexless
tea and sandwiches as usual.
Only one thing was missing from The
Bulletin office. Music by Offenbach.
The atmosphere was saved from
outright “bohemianism” only by the
unexpectedly sedate deportment of the
managers and editors. “Hop,” the
American father of Australian humor,
turned out to be a perfect monument of
solemn dignity, whose relaxation was
making fiddles and playing bowls.
“Wit,” he said to me, “is just the sense
of proportion. Sensible men (that is to
say, witty men) conserve their talents for
use in working-hours, leaving lesser men
to mitigate their disappointments with
the cheap consolations of exhibitionism.”
New South Wales State politics were
having an unusually violent period. The
Government was hanging on to office by
one vote, tempers ran high and missiles
flew. Sober historians recorded “a violent
and disgraceful exhibition” in the State
Assembly, during which “such unspeak-
ably vile language was used by some
Opposition member that the ‘Hansard’
staff couldn’t, or wouldn’t, take it down.”
There was discord, too, in the Federal
arena, the State and Federal Labor leaders
were having a family jar and thickening
the air with fraternal recriminations.
I found an interest both educational
and professional in all this, but “Hop,”
Lindsay and Vincent looked after the big
cartoons on national subjects and I got
a chance only when someone took a
week off. In one way that was just as
well. It did not suit me to work in an
office drawing ideas to order under the
nose of an editor. Within myself I begqn
to fall foul of the paper’s policies.
To start with, I was sceptical of the
White Australia conception, linchpin of
Bulletin policy, and mistrustful of the
ideas that went with it. If it had taken
a hundred years to get five-million people
to Australia, how long was it going to
take to fill up the vacant spaces under
our policy of severely restricted immigra-
tion?
It seemed like a fool’s-paradise notion
to me.
I was for nationalism as far as was
necessary to secure a healthy economic
and political balance, but The Bulletin’s
exclusive flag-wagging seemed to me
neither good morals nor good politics.
How far could Australia get on its own,
anyway?
The root of my heresy lay in that I
was in my bones a universalist, inclined
to divide people up horizontally, good
and bad ; rather than vertically, English,
French, Germans, Chinese, Russians and
so on. My instincts were opposed to
the narrow nationalism. The Bulletin’s
provocative gibes at Japan seemed to me
boyishly irresponsible. If a European
war evejr came off we should be trying
to keep Japan sweet on our side, instead
of spitting in her eye. We should be
thinking with our brains, not our blood.
There came a day when in a burst of
conscience I refused to draw one of the
editor’s Jap-monkey ideas, to his great
astonishment. James Edmond was a
grdnd editor, one of the best. He looked
at me sourly through his thick-lens
spectacles that magnified his eyes six
times larger than life. Now, then, this
is where you stick, Low, I thought. Man
or mouse?
“Sit down,” he said. I did, and
explained myself. 1 got everything off
my chest. Militant nationalism, the
Imperial Connection and all. I could
see him thinking: What the hell’s this?
Mutiny? Damn and blast, I thought, is
my goose cooked? But Jimmy took his
gag back. The Bulletin was big enough.
It was some time, however, before I got
another show at a big cartoon.
(Q)F all professions journalism is the
. most widening to the horizon of the
mind, if one has one. The journalist is
licensed by' custom to find out. To
gratify his curiosity becomes a duty. The
universal respect for the mysterious
powers of publicity and the general yearn-
ing for self-revelation ensure him wide
co-operation. If the proper study of
mankind is man, no other occupation
provides such facilities for observation.
I have already described how my
association with New Zealand “Truth”
gave me a nodding acquaintance with
Crime. An assignment to provide boxing-
cartoons for The Bulletin sporting page
now began my education in sport.
Those were the big days of boxing in
Australia. Champions came from the
world-over tp dispute their titles at the
Rushcutter Bay Stadium at Sydney, built
to house the Burns-Johnson world heavy-
weight championship back in 1908. I
had my ringside seat there week by week
for two years, until I was cooled-off
because a cartoon I drew of myself with
an umbrella up at. a particularly bloody
encounter aggravated the management,
who decided it was bad for business.
I have never had any particular interest
in watching sport—other people playing
games—but I was mildly curious about
boxing, which I sometimes tried myself
for fun. Soon I became so bored with
my job looking at these professionals
that I would not have cared had they
JAMES EDMOND
been fighting with hatchets. But when
irfdividuals in the boxing audience merged
into a mass howling excitement at the
spectacle of two young men in the pink
of health trying to stun one another, the
audience interested me more than the
performance. The proportion of those
taking an interest in self-defence as an
“art” was obviously small. I had no
definite ideas about mob psychology,
which was a subject not discussed in those
days, but 1 was impressed at the per-
spiring ferocity of the faces.
“This is uncivilised, Jeff,” I said to a
hardened old colleague. “Is this as far
as we’ve evolved since the Romans tossed
the Christians to the lions?”
“Just where you’re wrong,” he said.
“Isn’t it an evidence of civilisation that
we can sublimate our savage
instincts to the point at which five-
thousand people can come along here
and let their passions ride for the
evening without a single person being
killed?”
“That’s right,” I said. But when, on
a later occasion, as a protest against an
unpopular decision, the audience piled the
chairs in a heap and set fire to news-
papers beneath them to burn the place
down, X had my doubt about the sporting
spirit being what it was cracked up to be.
Still, however unedified, one cannot
spend three years looking at a game
without learning willy-nilly what makes
the wheels go round. Visits from ring-
side to dressing-rooms to se* how the
boys were getting on, with a few trips to
training-quarters, made me acquainted
with the local champs of the time.
I was not surprised to find that behind
the seines the atmosphere was not brutal,
but merely professional. Our Hughie
Mehegan, Herb McCoy and the other
gladiators of my day were businessmen
engaged in the exploitation of their
abilities. Sometimes a loud-mouth
arrived on the scene, but he soon learned
to shut his big trap while his betters
exchanged with almost dispassionate
interest new developments in their
industry.
“Do those rabbitkillers hurt?” I asked
Herb McCoy, conscious again after
having been battered insensible by a
dreadful tattooed American, Mil burn
Sayler, with a succession of sledgehammer
punches on the nape of his neck, any
one of which would have broken my
spine.
“Not the first twenty or so. After that
you’ve got to let your head go with
it ...”
Our Australian boys were good, but
not quite good enough. There was a
constant flow of American pugs coming
over to trim any pretensions they might
{Continued on page 27)


24
How to show your respect
for BelVs
illip
?MV.W
.•.wawv.Vv:.;
y.;.
r/ii
mmi
■//.'///;///'■
vMWf.
mm
V//.
V/SA
m
m
Sniff it . • • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it • • • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
nm
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd • Distillers, Perth, Scotland- Est. 1825
Utfirry*
BEIXS
i p c
Wa
9s
cm
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. Lawry,
Sydney. Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Villiers entrants to reveal
sound form at Rosehill last
Saturday were Aboukir, Royal
Stream and My Kingdom, in the
Flying Handicap, while Prince
Delville, with 9st., won the
Christmas Cup so well that, with
lib. less to carry in the Summer
Cup, he looks like being hard to
beat. Beau Brance, easy winner
of the Auburn Stakes with 8.3,
drops to the limit (7st.) in the
Cup ; but Prince Delville’s chief
Cup dangers may be Beaupa and
Port Arthur.
Aboukir seemed a trifle lucky
to defeat Royal Stream. My
Kingdom began a bit slowly;
otherwise he might have
improved upon third placing.
My Kingdom won at Flemington
last month, and seems headed
for another win soon. Even so,
it cannot be overlooked that
Aboukir won in almost record
time (1.11|); Stirrup Cup’s 1.11
is best for six furlongs at Rose-
hill. In the Villiers Royal
Stream is to be ridden by A.
Ward, whose experience and
strength should help the six-
year-old gelding if it comes to a
tight finish.
Compound, favorite for the
Villiers, didn’t race at Rosehill,
nor did the second-elect, Hinges.
Before the first event Baystone,
who had been favorite for the
Summer Cup, was switched in
a heavy betting move to the
Villiers. However, he has to
return to shorter racing after
successes over middle-distances:
at his last two starts he has won
at 10 furlongs.
Hinges is selected to win the
Villiers, from Compound and
Royal Stream.
In recent years the Villiers has
been won by two Perth horses,
Raconteur (9.2) in 1953 and
Filipino (9.4) in 1948. Fastest
time over the bast 14 years was
Raconteur’s 1.35 i.
“This is becoming a habit,”
said S.T.C. chairman Harry
Tancred to Mr. and Mrs. W. J.
Bradshaw after their horse,
Prince Delville, had won his
second Christmas Cup. Last
year he ran the mile-and-a-half
in 2.31 ; last Saturday he covered
the distance in 2.30 J, a course
record. Front-runners Nile
River and Belbeiys handed-out
poor displays in the Cup,
especially the former, who set up
a big lead, but stopped to a
walk in the straight. Prince
Delville had run well in the
Melbourne Cup to the home-
turn ; at next start he fell in
Caulfield’s Pentathlon Stakes.
Trainer Stan Lamond did a top
job to have the Prince ready for
the Rosehill win.
Beau Brance had been off the
winning-list for 16 months prior
to his success in the Auburn
Stakes at Rosehill. It was the
Beau Son gelding’s second
outing since a spell of several
months, and the mount this
time was given to well-
experienced Noel McGrowdie.
At his prior start, at Canter-
bury on December 5, Beau
Brance had run wide in the
straight, losing a lot of ground.
McGrowdie, though he rode
wide round the opposition
nearing the home-turn, kept his
whip in his left hand and, tapping
the horse down the shoulder
'over the last furlong, kept him
on a fairly straight course.
Beau Brance had much in hand
in easily defeating the favorite,
Lycidas, and the still-disappoint-
ing Gay Ranick. Lycidas was
thought to be a galloper out of
the box, but the importation,
who is by Alycidon, will have
to do a lot better than at Rose-
hill to be classed above average.
Ray George, one of Sydney’s
most promising young horse-
men, is now a fully-fledged
jockey. His 51st win—on
Alabama Boy at Rosehill —was
his final success as an apprentice.
The lad, who has shown skiff
and ability over all distances,
was first apprenticed to Rand-
wick mentor Keith Duggan, but
later his indentures were trans-
ferred to Rosehill trainer M. F.
Anderson, who gave him many
opportunities: the association
will be continued. Alabama
Boy won on the bit in the
Second Parramatta Stakes.
Audio Miss led the field past
the judge in the Second Benefit
Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, but on protests laid by
B. V. Hall, rider of Full Chime,
and M, Moore, rider of Fiddler’s
Green (against both the first and
second horses to cross the line),
the stewards upheld the Full
Chime objection and awarded
her first money. They also
upheld Moore’s protest against
Audio Miss, and promoted
Fiddler’s Green to second
placing, Audio Miss being
deposed to third. L, Campbell,
who rode Audio Miss, got a
month for careless riding. Full
Chime is a three-year-old filly
by Tournai (imp.) from Ten
O’Clock by Manfred from
Billenya by Burrabadeen.
In Harmony, winner of the
First Benefit Handicap at the
Valley, is a product of Kia-Ora
stud, Scpne (N.S.W.). She is a
“ and yet when it comes to bowls he plays a
rotten game.”
half-sister to Belmont Park,
whose main claim to fame was
a double win at Rosehill one
afternoon. In Harmony is by
Brimstone (imp.) from Sweet
Chime by Le Grand Due (imp.)
from the brilliant Koromiko by
Magpie (imp.).
Lucky Clue, runner-up to
Diamond Vista in the Rosehill
Maiden Two-year-old, cast a
plate beforehand in the mounting
enclosure. The farrier had a
hard job adjusting the shoe with
the public standing so close to
the heavily backed youngster,
who was in a “mug sweat”
before his jockey, G. Podmore,
jumped into the saddle. Many
considered that Lucky Clue had
run his race before reaching the
starting-gates, his energy un-
reasonably used-up after the
plate had been cast. The S.T.C.
and other clubs should make
better arrangements for similar
emergencies. A farrier should be
in or handy to the mounting-
enclosure till all horses have
left for the start; better still, a
horse that casts a plate should
immediately be returned to his
stall for reshoeing.
Horseracing loses through
man-made errors. Simple
mistakes are nothing, but the
mix-up following the running of
the First Parramatta Stakes at
Rosehill was something that
should have been avoided. In
the days when jockeys wore side-
whiskers and knew nothing of
the Tod Sloan seat, races were
started with a flag. Now they are
trying to stop them with one!
Rosehill’s mix-up should not be
repeated.
* * *
N.S.W. 1955 Derby winner on
the trots circuit, First Variety has
had three runs at the Richmond
provincial course in recent
weeks. In the first run he broke
the track-record for 12 furlongs
set by Springfield Guy under
free-for-all conditions just prior
to the last Inter-Dominion.
Next-up he broke his own
record; on Saturday, from
72yds., he came in with his ears
pricked to again smash his own
record, with a time of 3.12
an amazing effort for Richmond.
The Harold Park Free-for-All
on Friday night provided one
of the most gruelling races seen
on the track for a long spell.
Mineral Spring was logical
favorite, Brilliant Moon most
backed to beat him. Nobody
wanted barrier-rogue Van Hall.
Springfield Guy and Brilliant
Moon threw their speed in to
make the early pace sizzling;
Adams drove Mineral Spring
hard to keep within striking-
distance ; Van Hall left the
barrier and followed Mineral
Spring. Mineral Spring, who
had been out on a limb for most
of the run, was driven away
about two furlongs out; he
looked unbeatable. But he came
at his old loafing tricks, which
left him a dead duck for the
paralysing run that Van Hall
unwound.
Champion S.A. pacer Radiant
Venture had his record sequence
of wins cut short at 18 when
on his home-ground—Port Pirie
—on Thursday night his colors
were lowered to another Radiant
Robert 'pacer, Modulation, in
the Tickera Free-for-All. When
it is considered that he cast a
shoe in the first lap, moved from
third place a lap-and-a-half out
to challenge Modulation up
front and then went down by
the bare yard, it was a good
effort; and they rated a smart
2.1 If for 12 furlongs.
Victorian trainer Jack McKay
had two runners in the Southey
Handicap, main event at Mel-
bourne Showgrounds on Satur-
day night. His mare Argent,
being groomed for the A.G.
Hunter Cup and Inter-
Dominion, was driven by his
brother Bill; stable-reinsman
Dal Fitzpatrick took the sit on
Pacing Gift and came in smoking
his pipe. Pacing Gift had swept
all before him at Melbourne
Royal Show; two seasons back
he was an above-average three-
year-old; his 2.10 gait for the
12f furlongs on Saturday
suggests he’s fit now to take on
the best of them.
+
With S.A. v. N.S.W., in
Adelaide, and W.A. v. Q., in
Perth, half the Sheffield Shield
programme of 20 matches is
completed. Not counting these
two, N.S.W., having played three
games, was ahead with 13 points
(two outright wins, one on the
first), followed by Queensland
(three games played) and W.A.
(five), both on 9. Victoria,
which hasn’t properly got into
its stride yet (one outright win,
over S.A., and two outright
losses in its three games = 5),
and S.A. (one first-innings loss,
to W.A., and one outright
loss = 1), tail the field.
“Cunedda”: Young Westralian
left-hand bats rn a n Barry
Shepherd could fill the place left
vacant in Australian cricket
when Arthur Morris retired.
Could be, too, that he’ll be given
the same nickname as that given
Morris in his early days as a
representative cricketer —Bunter.
With Shepherd it would be far
more appropriate, for Morris at
no time went anywhere near
the Westraliari’s 15st. Despite his
weight, however, Shepherd has
plenty of energy, and is a class
cover-fieldsman.
* * *
There was big tennis in three
capital cities at the weekend. In
Perih, U.S.A. had no particular
trouble with India, to once again
reach the Davis Cup challenge-
round, played in Adelaide Dec.
26-28 In Melbourne there
were the Victorian titles. One
point of note in them, the
doubles win in four sets by the
new team Fraser-Anderson,
from the title-holders Hoad and
Rose wall. This new pairing,
which looks stronger than either
of the two combinations it was
compounded of, could have a
big future in Australian
tennis.... In Sydney Kramer’s
professionals, including Aus-
tralians Sedgman and Hartwig,
played at White City under
floodlights, with Pan c h o
Gonzales (now returned to
U.S.A. for an operation) prov-
ing he still has as muph right as
anyone else to be called the
world’s best tennis-player.
* * *
Manchester, which sealed
Australia’s cricket hopes last
July, on Saturday sealed what-
ever Rugby League hopes there
were after Australia’s equalising
win in the second Test. England
“whitewashed” Australia 19-0 in
the third Test on Saturday, and
so unfortunately one more of a
long succession of Australian
League teams to England will
haVe to come back without the
Ashes.
* * *
George Bracken (9.8|), former
stockman from Ingham (Q.), and
Ron Krogh (9.8£), a drover
from round Longreach, put on
gloves in Brisbane Stadium on
Friday night to* decide who’d
be calling himself lightweight
champ, of Australia now that
Colin Clarke’s vacated the
scene. In the second round,
after 3min. <4ssec. of scrap,
Krogh was reeling groggily
about, ref. Pat Hill stepped in
and called it a night, George
Bracken was champ. His two-
fisted attack was too solid for
the Krogh, who may yet be the
makings. Not so long back he
was fighting prelims.
In their second scrap at the
Melbourne Stadium this year
Italian middleweight champ.
Tiberio Mitri and Spanish-born
Australian light-heavy champ.
Ricardo Marcos turned on
another good stoush. There was
little in it at the end, but ref.
Terry Reilly gave it to the
Italian on points. .


have to world titles. It had been many
a long day since Australia had had a
top-class heavyweight. Imagine the joy
when one day a boy turned-up displaying
all the promise of a real champion.
Les Darcy was young, only a middle-
weight, but he would grow. He looked
like It at last. Intelligent, nimble,
unstoppable, with a solid punch in both
hands, I found this laughing country
youth extraordinarily likeable. The list
of his wins grew impressively long, at last
all the omens were favorable, and away
he sailed to conquer the U.S.A.
He landed with toothache, had the
molar pulled, developed blood-poisoning
and in three days was dead. When I
heard it I wept. There are still Aus-
tralian boxing fans who talk about how
the Americans poisoned Les Darcy to
prevent his taking the world heavyweight
championship.
Although nobody could say my sport-
ing interlude was particularly fruitful, it
was a diversion from and I
collected some curious moments in
famous company. I could just remember
how the world had excited itself about
the Corbett-Fitzsimmons championship
fight in 1898. Now here was old Bob
Fitzsimmons himself showing me where
my own solar-plexus was and, with the
hoarse croak he used for a voice since
someone delivered a right-cross on his
Adam’s-apple, telling me what he did to
Corbett in that celebrated battle.
And then, later, Old Corbett, Gentle-
man Jim still, turned up in Sydney to
give me his version of the punch that
put him out.
WHEN I shifted for variety from
boxing to billiards, I remember
George Gray, the wizard of the losing-
hazard, and Fred Lindrum, the first of
the brood of champions of that name,
giving me private tips (which utterly
failed to improve my game) . . . being
invited by old father Lindrum at his
billiard-saloon to play a hundred-up with
a lean youngster with a frecdded nose —
his nephew Horace. “The kid’s pretty
good,” says he; “he’ll.give you eighty.”
I got two shots . , . Having a tooth
stopped by M- A. Noble, the cricketers’
idol ... It was all experience.
Another refreshing change was the
theatre. As a roving journalist properly
accredited, I was free of all the shows —
no bother about tickets, just drop in—
and I got a smattering of the stage and
its personalities, which led me in the
general good-fellowship to have a go
myself.
I joined a repertory company in
Sydney and later another in Melbourne.
It was one of the proud moments of my
life when I took a curtain amid tumul-
tuous applause for my rendering of Rory
O’Moore in Galsworthy’s “The Pigeon.”
As it was one of the most exciting when
Hugh McCrae, my poetic friend, and I
acted the two dramatic critics in Arnold
Bennett’s “What the Public Wants” with
such boisterous vim that Hugh broke his
straw-hat.
k
6
nWAS settling down to a comfortable
round in beautiful Sydney when two
things happened to disturb the peace:
World War I and an opening at last as
The Bulletin’s resident cartoonist at
Melbourne, then the temporary capital
and centre of Commonwealth politics.
The first reactions of the Australian
public to the fact of war, as I remember,
were surprise and complacency. Aus-
tralia had been minding its own business,
which was taken then to include that of
Ireland. The large Irish-Australian
population was concentrated with
expatriate-nationalistic fervor on the
crisis over the new Home Rule Bill before
the British Parliament.
It was difficult at first to rearrange
one’s animosities and decide who was the
more important villain —the Kaiser or
Carson.
Europe had been somebody else’s
affair. The struttings and ultimata had
made exciting news from far away, but
the principal figureheads had remained
only half-real. The childish propaganda
of belittlement of Germany evolved in
late-Victorian times to soothe British
pride after the Kaiser’s insults during
the Boer War, the dumping of German
goods in British markets, and the building
of a German Navy, came home to roost.
Everyone underestimated the enemy.
Berlin-to-Baghdad? What’s that? . . .
Alsace-Lorraine? Who’s he? . . . Belgian
Treaty? Where’s Belgian Treaty? . . .
One Englishman could lick two Germans,
and one Australian could lick two
Englishmen. All was well.
Faced with dire reality, there were
sounds of type-smashing by night as
newspapers adjusted their ideas. The
Bulletin supported the war, reserving
the right to criticise any backsliding
from the principle of “Australia First.”
Temporarily it modified slightly its fiscal
antagonisms to Britain and France and
stopped its monkey cartoons. The British
had had more sense than The Bulletin,
and Japan was now our ally.
nr HE BULLETIN’S attitude suited me
well enough, with a few reservations.
But no one had pressed me to conform
to every comma of its policy, anyway.
I was by no means convinced of the
total wrongness of Gvrmany’s claim to a
“place in the sun”; and, influenced by
the talk flying around even then of a
Asquith (to Lloyd George): “David, talk to him in Welsh and pacify him!” (Low criticises, as a drawing, this
famous BULLETIN cartoon of his. The original is now in Federal Parliament House.)
United Europe, I was sceptical of the
Divine patronage of Britain’s Balance of
Power. Yet there was no doubt that
Germany had prepared for and
deliberately begun the war.
I had taken no part in The Bulletin’s
clamor for military compulsion in peace-
time. The word “Conscription” had not
yet come up, and voluntary enlistment
was the national policy for overseas
service. I had no reason to doubt my
paper’s editorial goodwill whatever line
I took. But I could not say that the
actuality of war made no difference to my
peace-time thinking—especially a world
war in which defeat would probably
mean the utter overthrow of democratic
progress by military dictatorship.
Suppose the war was of such size and
length that the defence resources of
voluntaryism became worked-out and
used-up* and still no security in sight? I
wore out some boot-leather considering
that one.
MY boarding-house bedroom in
Sydney had expanded into a house-
hold with the arrival two years previously
of my mother, sister and small brother,
which was fortunate for me, because it
provided me with a smooth background
without domestic distractions other than
a growing social life, which I should
never have had time to make for myself.
And, most important, my mother made
excellent soup, my sister had grown
creditably pretty, and my small brother
gave me the excuse to fly kites and let
off fireworks. My father, too, had paid
us frequent visits from some mysterious
new business he had successfully created
in New Zealand out of his head.
Winding-up our affairs in Sydney, I
transported the lot of us to Melbourne.
We lived in a flat near the Federal
Parliament and friendly Representatives
used to drop in to sample my mother’s
soup and drop political hints, which was
very useful. The nearness of the House
and my journalist’s privilege made it
possible for me to get around it to see
again many of the politicians I had met
during my travels as a peripatetic
caricaturist, and to make enough “con-
tacts” to keep abreast, if not a jump
ahead, of the times.
My old happy relations with Ed Fisher
were resumed on firmer ground, and
there were always two or three bright
Bulletin colleagues to supply me with
ideas if I needed them. After a few
months, however, when I was “run in,”
Ed had the wisdom to leave me alone,
and I tasted once again the satisfaction
of free expression.
In Sydney my eminent senior, Norman
Lindsay, was producing dramatic and
allegorical war-cartoons in the grand
manner. From Melbourne I was to pro-
vide, in humorous contrast, the person-
alities and the minutias of the politics
involved. Much of my first work was
shallow flippancy in the conventional
manner of its kind and time, interspersed
with some of those cliche compositions
of the “blood-and-bones” type, with
heavy blacks and massive effects which
look “strong” and “powerful” but say
no more than “Isn’t war terrible?” or
“The enemy is a bad man.”
I varied these with a few toots at
President Woodrow Wilson for the
supposed sycophancy of his diplomatic
Notes to Germany, and at Peace Societies
for the supposed futility of their appeals
to flourishing war-lords.
As victory seemed a long, long time
in coming, I arrived in due course at
more meaningful works on profiteering,
recruiting, the salvage of living-standards
and the immediate need to separate the
issues of survival from the growing
confusion.
A USTRALIA had been on the eve of a
Federal general election when the
war broke. Party leaders had vied with
one another in patriotic declamation, and
pledged “the last man and the last
shilling” to the Imperial authorities —a
big mouthful for a country where the
crops and the livestock had to be grown
and where the “last shilling” was one
borrowed from the British moneylender.
Probably anticipating difficulty in
reconciling reality with rhetoric, Andrew
Fisher, leader of the re-elected Labor
Government, went up in a puff of
patriotic smoke and disappeared to
London as High Commissioner. W. M.
Hughes, “Our Billy,” took office as Prime
Minister amid loud cheers.
Roughly speaking, Hughes and I
synchronised, and a great part of the
remainder of my life in Australia was
spent in comment upon his personality
and his doings. The time, the place and
the man conspired not only to sharpen
my abilities but to confirm my future as
a political cartoonist.
What is it that makes a man good
material for caricature? Billy Hughes
had it. Picturesque appearance? That
of itself is never enough; but he had
plenty of it. Five-feet high, thin' body
with spidery arms, small head, swarthy
largish face, mostly nose, slanting glitter-
ing eyes, wisp moustache. Ability,
energy? There was always something
doing when Billy was about.
As the dynamic policy-makerfor Labor
the little man with the sharp tongue,
waving arms, and hearing-aid box that
was also an aid to deafness when he
didn’t want to listen, was always an
arresting figure.
When World War I provided the big
events which enabled his attributes to be
deployed on the world stage he came near
to being the stuff of history— not for his
compelling width of view but for the
other thing. Billy at the Versailles Peace
Conference looking at the future through
the wrong end of the telescope was almost
a unique personality.
Who else could have staggered the
assembled world statesmen by insisting
that New Guinea was more important
than Europe? What other could have
told Paderewski, the pianist Prime
Minister of Poland,/ to take his policy
home and play it on the piano?
Certain weaknesses round the portrait
for caricature. Vanity, irascibility,
impatience, hysteria—Billy had all these.
Like all of those capable of inspiring
passionate antagonism, he could also
inspire devotion.
One could say without detracting from
his qualities of greatness that he was
never a uniting personality.
AFTER sounding a “Call to Arms”
Hughes left to visit Britain. The
spirited oratory of the Welshman from
overseas made an immediate impression.
The cables hummed with his speeches. It
was persistently reported, however, that
behind closed doors his habit of talking
people down was an embarrassing experi-
ence to the Asquith Cabinet.
I recorded the situation in a cartoon
showing the Cabinet-room at Downing-
street with Billy in full cry, thumping one
end of the Cabinet-table, blotting-pads,
books and inkwell in disarray, while
Asquith and his Ministers take cover.
Asquith implores Lloyd George: “David,
talk to him in Welsh and pacify him!”
I spent three days on this drawing, and
when I had finished, it looked to me over-
drawn. Too full of lines. After all, an
idea and its treatment are one in. good
drawing, and technique and representa-
tion should arise from the material. A
slight quip should not be represented in
laborious technique, but with economy of
line, or its effect is impaired, the purpose
defeated. This little thing was drawn
with the authenticity and completeness
of detail appropriate to a massive
subject. I contemplated tearing it up and
starting again, but there was no time, so
off it went.
Disconcertingly, that cartoon turned
out to be a success. The day after it
appeared it rained telegrams and letters
of congratulation—even a bunch of
flowers. The Governor-General promptly
sent an aide in all his military magnifi-
cence to my studio to put in a claim for
the original drawing. Prints were struck
off which I obligingly defaced with my
quite superfluous signature, since the
drawing was signed already.
Billy, the hero of it, was called-on to
sign twenty copies for members of the
British Cabinet, and Lloyd George had
to have two. The original now hangs, I
am told, in the Federal Parliament
Library at Canberra, and some kind critic
spoke of it recently as “the best-known
Australian political cartoon.”
It has too many lines in it.
(To be continued next week )


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
P*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
kuv mom safe!
aJUPv
SANDERS
&r>:.
Correspondence, invoices,'
statements* etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect boolc oi reference aV
the end of each month —or
Price* and fur»
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diuributing Agenti—
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH %
Norman Bro». PtJ- Lt *
Vardon Prl« L{ *-
Docket Book C*.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ANTI-AMERICANISM
TN the continuing British and
U.S. press-criticisms touching
on Middle East policy the
British comments have, by
amounting to a wave of anti-
Americanism, naturally pro-
duced a reaction in defence of
Uncle Sam’s attitude over the
Anglo-French sortie into Suez.
Most effective critics include
Major-General Sir Edward
Spears (who must be one of the
most regular contributors to the
correspondence - columns of
London “Daily Telegraph”),
R. C. M. Yates, writing to the
same paper, the Alsop brothers
and Walter Lippmann in New
York “Herald Tribune,” and
that able “New York Times”
writer C. L. Sulzberger—these
American columnists, of course,
are not “anti-American” by any
stretch of imagination; they
have only, as London “Spec-
tator” notes in defence of
American policy, “been
remarkably understanding of the
British position.”
Spears, after attacking the
“jeering polyglot cacophony at
the United Nations Assembly,”
suggests that “It would now
appear that the United States
Government is using the United
Nations as a cover for a policy
the object of which seems to be
to bankrupt us first and then
take our place in the Middle
East. It is certain this policy
will destroy us as a Great
Power. It may ruin the United
States as well in the end.
“When we have left the
United Nations, Washington will
have to come out with and
defend its policy before its own
opinion. We should then know
where we stand and what to
do. We shall see whether the
United States wishes Europe to
lose the Middle East oil, and
whether she is prepared to see
Russia established in that vital
area.”
Yates notes that, while he was
in Washington during the war,
a friend in the State Department
told him that an important
feature of U.S. post-war foreign
policy then being hammered out
was “that the two allegedly anti-
colonial Powers, Russia and the
United States, would unite to
get the colonial Powers, chiefly
Britain and France, gradually to
disgorge their Empires.”
Yates goes on to comment that
“the truth is that America,
though itself conceived in
colonialism, is working and will
continue to work for the fulfil-
ment of its national policy, and
the destruction of what it con-
siders colonialism in others.
“How it escapes notice that a
by-product of this policy, if
successful, will reduce Britain to
the level of a Power of the
magnitude of Spain is beyond
my own comprehension. Yet
your [British] Commonwealth,
being widely distributed through-
out the world, could have a far
more stabilising influence on
world politics than the localised
and much smaller and less
populous United States.
“Every time you British are
chased out of a new place
London “Daily Express"
THE BIG STICKS
(Abadan and Suez, for instance)
there is a little less work and a
little less wealth for you, and
those who take your place—often
Americans, strangely enough—
find an increase in theirs.
“If you would return to the
traditional foreign policy which
has preserved you intact for a
thousand years and hold the
balance of power between what
are now the two strongest
nations, you might find the world
a better, not 'to say more
dignified, place to live in.
“You may lose that fistful of
dollars which the Americans
occasionally fling at you to keep
you sweet, but you will be able
to dispense with the smack in the
face that invariably goes with it
(to illustrate the thought behind
the gift). And think carefully
before you say this is an
uncharitable statement.”
In the New York “Herald
Tribune” Walter Lippmann
suggests that the Washington
decision “to let the effort to
settle wait upon the withdrawal
[of British and French forces
from Suez] has in practice meant
that our [America’s] weight has
been added to, not distinguished
from, that of the countries of
the Soviet orbit and of the Afro-
Asian bloc in their unqualified
support of Egypt.”
Lippmann sums-up the root of
the trouble as being in Washings
ton, “where the fundamental
decision has been fumbled —•
whether to treat the intervention
as a case of unprovoked aggres-
sion to be repelled or as an
explosion of, conflicting forces
that need to be pacified and
reconciled.
“The President has said things
which suggest that he was
groping for the second and truly
statesmanlike course. But for
some reason, be it that he has
lacked lucid and resourceful
advisers, he has allowed us to
drift into the other course. That
course is proving in practice to
be nothing more than to play
second-fiddle to the Soviet-
Egyptian axis.”
Also in the “Herald Tribune,”
Joseph and Stewart Alsop
prophesy that the strains already
felt in the Western alliance as a
result of Suez are “nothing to
the strains that lie ahead.”
Britain, they note, will now
hold the “vast oil riches of
Kuwait and the other gulf-coast
sheikdoms by naked military
force, if need be”:
“But are we [A meri c a]
prepared to support the British
in this new ‘aggression,’ which
will raise a worse storm than
the attack on Suez? Or shall we
press on our British partners to
look pleasant while their throats
are cut?”
The Alsops also point out
that the loss of Britain’s Middle
East oil-supplies would cost the
country about $lOOO million a
year, a loss which the “shaky
British balance of payments
cannot conceivably stand”:
“If the oil goes, Britain will go
bankrupt: After declaring bank-
ruptcy, Britain will have to
abandon her Nato and other
strategic commitments, and will
go out of business as a serious
World Power. But how is
American policy going to be
adjusted to cover the loss of
Western strength caused by
British bankruptcy?
“In these circumstances,” the
Alsops conclude, “the American
policy-makers are now content
to talk vaguely about ‘the U.S.
moving into the Middle East to
fill the vacuum’ left by our less
fortunate allies. But do our
policy-makers really think, for
instance, that the United States
can take over Britain’s Middle
Eastern oil-resources, pension-
off the British people, and still
keep Britain as a loyal ally?”
Sulzberger, in a summing-up
rather than a criticism of the
“tragic and illogical” develop-
ments out of the “pique in
Washington, resulting from Lon-
don’s betrayal of our confi-
dence,” sees little chance of
early improvement.
He notes, however, that there
may soon be new faces on both
sides: Eden to be replaced by
Butler or Macmillan —he also
allows for the possibility of a
Labor Government in Britain;
Governor Herter, “a man of par-
ticular and untarnished repute,”
who will soon join Mr. Dulles
in the U.S. State Department;
Sir Harold Caccia, new British
Ambassador to Washington;
and John Hay Whitney, the next
U.S. Ambassador in London.
These new faces, Sulzberger
suggests, “may facilitate restora-.
tion of a friendship that is deeply
rooted and so much in our
interest. On this side we must
recognise the gravity of
England’s economic problems
and the stubborn pride which,
after all, made Britain hold out
alone against 4 all-comers in
desperate 1940-41.
“We must cease glib talk of
‘penalising’ our friend for its
unhappy mistakes, withholding
oil from this hemisphere and
‘taking over’ Britain’s position in
Africa and the Middle East.
“Were that to happen the
United Kingdom would collapse
economically. And it would be
driven into an entirely new
foreign policy based on
neutralism and private arrange-
ments with the Soviet bloc.”
The other side of the picture —
the American case —is well put
by two letter-writers to London
“Daily Telegraph” and by
London “Economist” and
“Spectator.”
Robert Boot h b y, M.P.,
comments that “if our [Britain’s]
natural indignation at the
attitude of the United Nations
Assembly towards us (in striking
contrast to its total impotence
in the crisis of Europe) impels
us to ‘have a go’ at the United
States, let us at least make it
as brief as possible, and base
our arguments on facts, not
falsehoods.
“To give one example of the
latter, there has been much loose
talk in recent months about the
alleged economic war being
conducted against us by the oil
companies of the United States
with the object of eliminating
and supplanting British oil-
interests in the Middle East.
“I believed this myself, on
hearsay evidence, until I visited
the oilfields of Iran and the
Persian Gulf last October with
three of my Parliamentary
colleagues. There we found the
precise opposite to be the case.
“At Abadan and Kuwait
British and American oil
companies were giving an
example of effective international
co-operation which put our
politicians to shame. And I
came to the conclusion that if we
had been able to achieve, at the
political level, the friendly and
intimate collaboration which
they had achieved at the practical
level of oil-production and
-distribution, we should never
have got into the present mess.”
Adding to Boothby in the
“Daily Telegraph,” an American,
Angus Macdonald Reid, writes
that “there is still an inbred
suspicion in most Americans of
Britain as a ‘colonial Power.’
This is a truly powerful force
and one which must be taken
into account when considering
any American reaction to
British policy.
“Britain’s insistence on a
Communist build-up in Egypt is
largely disbelieved. The
American people regard this as
simply an excuse to justify a
British reoccupation of the
Canal Zone. It has a particularly
hollow ring in our ears when
we remember Britain pandering
to Red China and her trade-
relations with other Communist
countries.
“Your Prime Minister’s state-
ment that Britain and France
had not the time to consult with
other Powers before taking
action in Suez is regarded as
nonsensical and an insult to the
intelligence of the American
people. Since Frerfch troops had
been in Cyprus for several weeks
in readiness for the Suez action,
one feels there is much justifica-
tion for their opinion.
“Many of us are also asking
why, if Sir Anthony Eden is
really concerned that the canal
should be open to the passage
of ships of all nations, he did not
attempt to initiate action to
compel Egypt to allow the free
passage of Israeli ships.
“Perhaps the most important
point to keep in mind is that the
American people have no con-
fidence in the Prime Minister.
Rightly or wrongly, he is
regarded as weak and vacillating.
“This widespread lack of con-
fidence in Sir Anthony Eden, no
less than in France, with its
dreary, monotonous succession
of Governments, is no doubt
reflected in official circles in
Washington. I have little doubt
that the American voters have
inundated Congress with mail
during this crisis, and that the
White House and Capitol Hill
have .been made well aware of
the American public’s lack of
confidence in Sir Anthony.”
In an editorial assessment of
the dangers of anti-Americanism,
London “Economist” opines
that “Britain’s proper attitude
towards the United States is the
attitude that Australia has long
maintained towards Britain.”
“It is an attitude of blas-
phemous private candor about
most matters and about awkward
Foreign Secretaries, but of
sufficient loyalty to allow any
American leader to feel confi-
dent that when really , big issues
arise Britain will never deceive
him. The British Government,
personally polite to Mr. Dulles,
but eventually perfidious to
President Eisenhower, has played
the hand precisely the wrong way
round.
“It is easy enough to table an
emotion that everything is really
the Americans’ fault. But this
deliberately impedes realistic
confirmation of the tremendous
problems, strategic, political and
economic, which this unsuccess-
ful adventure has uncloaked and
already exacerbated. And the
core of all these problems
touching off the emotions dis-
cussed in this article in their
most prickly form —is the ques-
tion of the international future
of this country [Britain] as what
used to be called a Great Power.
“This crisis has shown that
Britain cannot succeed in any
major external adventure on
which it embarks alone; the
resentful Tories will themselves
be the first to agree that it has
also shown that the United
Nations cannot take over the
burden; there remains, inside
and outside the United Nations,
only the American alliance—
and the enduring friendship
upon which it rests.
“It is clear now —and it should
have been clear before —that the
Americans can only be steered
by careful, patient diplomacy
into areas where they are not yet
doing their duty ; they cannot be
shocked into them by their
friends, but are much more
likely to be shocked out.
“If now, impatient at being the
junior partners of a sometimes
somnolent (and at present sulky)
giant, our politicians seek by
their bravado to endanger that
partnership still more, they will
be doing their best to turn defeat
into sheer disaster. There could
be no forgiveness for that.”
London “Spectator’s” view of
the American position is
admirably put and is as under-
standing as the American
columnists’ consideration of
British difficulties.
It concedes that American
Middle East policy —“or lack of
it” —has been unsuccessful, but
adds that “the lurchings of Mr.
Dulles have been little greater


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
m
m
Wmm,
m
%>s<
m
HI
&*1
iV/«w^vvwvvvvy.-.y.
...
s l' t 1 «. 1'!
iiiiiii
Mr. D. G. Berwick, President of the Wheat and Woolgrowers*
Association of New South Wales, who has been an Ampol
user for 14 years, says —“ For our tractors and farm machinery,
we use Ampol oils and greases exclusively, and I am convinced
that no other lubricant could stand up to the gruelling work so
well. I can sincerely recommend Ampol to tractor users”
Use the best . . . Australia's own
fllflu
1
a
o
DO
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate # Lighting Kerosine
§ Petrol and. a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM12.33
Hartford ( U.S.A- ) “Times”
LOOKING FOR LEADERSHIP
than those of this country
[Britain]”:
“The Prime Minister’s Guild-
hall speech a year ago outlined
a very different policy from that
recently followed. Indeed the
Government’s understanding of
Israel’s danger and difficulties is
very recent. This summer the
Foreign Office was still attesting,
contrary to the evidence, that the
balance of arms in the Middle
East had not been disturbed;
snd as late as October the
Foreign Office was talking of
‘our ally’ Jordan’s ‘great
restraint’ in face of Israeli provo-
cation.
“Certainly it is to be hoped
that the Americans realise that
their Middle Eastern has
been at least as bankrupt as
ours; but that is not the burden
of British official complaint—
which, so far as one can see, is
that while the Anglo-French
action was a success and must
not be regretted, American
support is now needed; and
that, in withholding it, America
is endangering the Anglo-
American alliance.
“Unfortunately the Americans
do not share the British capacity
for seeing defeats like Dunkirk
as great victories and do not
believe that we were indulging
in police-action ; they believe we
were trying to destroy Colonel
Nasser and to safeguard the
canal.
“In his speech in New York
the [British] Foreign Secretary
solemnly said: ‘The result of our
action was....to unmask the
extent of the Soviet infiltration.’
Exactly a week before his
number-two at the Foreign
Office, Commander Noble, had
admitted that our action had
done nothing of the sort; that
we had known as much about
Soviet infiltration before the
invasion as we did after it. In
American Government circles
such statements could only excite
derision.
“A much worse remark by
Mr. Lloyd was, ‘There was no
time in the emergency for the
consultation which we should
have liked to have had with our
friends.’
“In saying this he ignores the
existence not only of the tele-
graph but of normal diplomatic
contacts as well. On the morning
of the 30th (that is, the day of
the ultimatum) the American
Ambassador saw the Foreign
Secretary at 9.30; at 10-o’clock
Mr. Selwyn Lloyd left for a meet-
ing with the French and Mr.
Aldrich returned to his Embassy.
“On the theory (which no
American official would for one
moment accept) that there was
no collusion or connivance so
far as Britain was concerned, it
would not necessarily be
damning that not one word was
said to Mr. Aldrich about a
possible ultimatum—it had not
yet been thought up. But
the American Embassy in
Grosvenor-square is not far
from Downing-street. It is also
on the telephone. Considerations
of time, therefore, cannot have
prevented the Americans being
consulted, far less informed,
about the Anglo-French plans.
“The only possible conclusion
is that ‘our friends’ were not
consulted because the British and
French Governments did not
want to consult them. Mr.
Aldrich did not learn of the
ultimatum until after it had been
delivered ; and President Eisen-
hower learned of it from a
newsagency report. It is too
obvious to need argument that
a delay of an hour or so (and
even that might not have been
necessary) to consult the
Americans would in no way have
affected for the worse the Anglo-
French ultimatum.
“On the same day, and on the
day before, discussions on the
Tripartite Declaration of 1950
were proceeding in Washington.
Again the British and French
said nothing of their proposed
action. The conclusion is surely
inescapable. There was a
Franco-British decision to
deceive the U.S. and to go it
alone.
“When the ‘Sunday Times’
says, ‘That there is no meeting of
minds is the calculated fault of
the American Administration,’ it
has got the matter the wrong
way round. It is the calculated
fault of the British Government.
At the end of October and the
beginning of November the
Government decided that the
Anglo-American alliance was
something that could be switched
off like a tap. So it switched it
off. Almost immediately it got
thirsty and tried to switch it on
again. It has found that it could
not do so, and has been relieving
its feelings by kicking the tap.
“In any case,” the “Spectator”
concludes, “it is no use abusing
America in general and President
Eisenhower in particular. The
President has just won one of
the most sweeping electoral
victories in American history,
and his popularity has probably
never been equalled. Much as
the British Government and
people may dislike Ike, the
American people continue to like
him very much indeed.
“Personal attacks on the
President are not likely to
influence Americans in the
direction that the attackers
would wish. Nor indeed are
attacks on America in generals
There are many Americans who
would like their Government to
do more than it has done, but
anti-American hysteria by the
British Right will not help the
case put by these powerful
American voices who have
certainly proved their friendship
for this country. The present
wave of anti-Americanism in
Britain is quite unjustified and
can only do harm.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower:
“Tyranny can, for a while,
effectively present a false facade
of material accomplishment. But
all history testifies that the
memory of freedom is not erased
by the fear of guns and the love
of freedom is more enduring
than the power of tyrants.”
Britain's First Lord of the
Admiralty, Lord Hailsham:
“When anarchy breaks out,
when either there is no law or
no law which can be enforced,
or no law which can be enforced
in time, a nation has the in-
alienable right as a human-being
to step in to put an end to the
fighting and protect its own.”
Retiring Supreme Commander
Allied Powers in Europe, General
Gruenther: “*The more I see of
the Soviets the more I am con-
vinced that they are subject to
errors. Certainly when it comes
to running a civilisation they are
still most inept and do a great
deaf of bungling.”


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE VISION SPLENDID
By M. H. ELLIS
“WHEN I served with your
Artillery in France in
nineteen-eighteen,” said the
British naval officer, “I thought
they were a tough lot; but I
didn’t think they were tough
enough to live off this.”
He surveyed the landscape of
the paddock with distaste,
which it was easy to excuse. The
bare hillside slope„d towards the
east. It was almost treeless. It
was scored with reddish gullies,
product of erosion, and promis-
ing to become chasms and gorges
in short order.
There was no grass. It looked
a little like Hiroshima must have
looked after they dropped the
bomb, but nobody would have
made the comparison then, for
it was only VJ-Day and we
were getting a little air into our
lungs after the celebration.
Obviously it was not Aus-
tralia at its best. The Murrum-
bidgee was dry as a bone. The
countryside was full of cracks.
The leaves of the dying timber
drooped. The cold sun
cheerless. The city of Wagga
in the distance looked a little
as Ispahan looks when it rises
out of the Persian desert
suddenly and so strongly in con-
trast with its surroundings that
it is difficult to believe it is not
a mirage.
So, indeed, looked Wagga,
and so did an isolated tree
standing in the middle of the
scored and eroded paddock.
“There,” I said, pointing to
this unimpressive vegetable, “is
the only thing left to mark the
position of the school where
Tom Blarney went to learn.”
“How,” asked the naval
officer, “did the Tichborne
claimant get as fat as he did
in the middle of this?”
Gazing for a moment forlornly
at a heap of fur which had
once been an emaciated rabbit,
he turned and stumbled over
the ground which had become
gnarled and nubbly as the last
sheep, following the last cattle
that had operated on it during
the middle stages of the great
1945 drought, had dug up the
roots of the vanished grass.
One could gaze on that land-
scape and understand how over-
stocked civilisations had gone
down in ancient times. Indeed,
one wondered whether this
district would not g’o down, too,
for it was difficult to believe
that pasture would ever sprout
there again.
It is estimated that
Australia can carry 29
million more sheep as
the direct result of
ridding sheep stations
of rabbits by myxoma-
tosis. Another de-
velopment which has
proved highly bene-
ficial to the grazier
during the past ten
years has been the
Elastrator Rubber
Ring method of mark-
ing and tailing lambs.
Compared with the
consequences following
the use of cruder
methods in the past
this improved tech-
nique has resulted in
vastly fewer losses and
better retention of
prime condition.
II
TN 1956 I walked nostalgically
-*■ over that paddock trying to
remember what it looked like
10 years before. \
The city of Wagga was still
visible in the distance. The
Murrumbidgee River was still
there—very much so, for as we
scooted later through the city
citizens were beginning to
build levees to hold back its
swirling waters.
The landscape was still there,
the same as to its larger
contours. Tom Blarney’s tree
was still growing sturdily,
though Tom was no more,
having become a part of history.
The immediate other features
of the scene, however, had
changed remarkably.
Down in that corner at the
left, where the erosion had been
most marked when the war
ended, poplars rose into the
sky out of rich, dark vegetation
round red roofs.
The broken fences of the run-
down dairyfarm of yore were
all straight. On the hillsides the
gullies and gashes of the water-
courses had disappeared under
a sweep of contouring.
Subdivision fences ran across
what had been one wide sweep
of desert, broken here and there
by clusters of dying gums. These
had revived and grown ta-ller
and, under attention, more leafy
and straight and shade-giving.
There was some cultivation.
Fat Border Leicesters, heavy and
healthy, grazed under the brow
of the hill, where rye and Mt.
Barker-clover were fetlock-deep.
In a word, this arid, broken-
down dairyfarm, which had
looked like the embodiment of
despair at the end of World War
11, had become in the interval
of a decade the Wagga Experi-
mental Farm, a prototype for
the farms of the post-war agri-
cultural revolution which has
swept N. S. Wales and other
States besides, changing the
whole outlook on the future of
Australia and its populative
potentialities, setting new
standards and dictating new
techniques for the modern small
farmer, for whom the terrors
of skeleton-weed and the rabbit
and erosion are becoming only
memories.
HI
/"VVER the brow of an eroded
hill, 10 years after the war,
the nose of a tractor protrudes,
and in a great sweep of contour-
ditches across the hillside,
spreading out the water gently
over the fertilised and artificially-
grassed surface, is written deep
in nature: “The Reclaimers
(or Improvers) have been, here.”
Under the influence of these
magic words, the primary closer-
settlement sheep districts, where
they used to talk of a sheep to
the acre, they are thinking in
terms of three, or even five
in the very best districts.
It is not always the same
agency which has done the work.
The owner of the land may him-
self have caught reclamation-
fever and be doing the job on
his own initiative, under his own
steam, or it may be done on
official urging ; but the effect is
the same, the results are
common.
All over the settled east coast
of Australia, from the high, cold
plateaux of the Snowy Moun-
tains round the fringes of the
basins which are to be turned
into lakes as big as some of the
smaller ones of Switzerland or
Westmoreland, out past the
wheatbelt to the west and right
up the coast almost to the tropic
of Capricorn, reclamation, arti-
ficial - pasture, trace - elements,
rotation or succession of breed-
ing stock, and fertilisation are
key-words in farming.
In the background the
magic phrases “water-conserva-
tion,” “electric-power,” “fodder-
conservation,” “purebreds” and
—reaching down to the core of
the great change which has come
over eastern Australia in the
past generation—the vital word
“mechanisation.”
» For power, generated power
and tractive power, are basic in
all that is going on, in the
revolution which has changed
the farmer of the coastal and
tableland belt into an agricultural
or pastoral engineer or scientist;
which has entirely changed
the landscape; and which
has ushered out the age when
the last of the old guard
—the heirs of the peasantry
created by John Robertson’s
Land Act of 1861, which was the
beginning of real closer-settle-
Wagga Experimental Farm,
with homestead - and
erosion—in 1945, and same
place in 1950 (homestead
just discernible near end
of trees).
ment away from the coast in
Australia—still ringbarked and
overstocked and ate their corn
off the cob for breakfast and
wore whiskers like stringybark.
Anybody who had told these
diehards of the plains and
ranges that it was possible to
own a motor-car off 300 to 500
acres, or work the dairy-herd
without the aid of a brood of
early-rising progeny chained to
farm labor from the time they
could lisp, would have been
laughed off the landscape.
These were the men who
muttered behind their hands
when the isolated green patches
of Prell, “down Crookwell way,”
advertised the madness of a man
who was actually planting grass
and —send for the Lunacy
Commissioner! —actually putting
superphosphate on it, in a day
when most growers doled out
super, like fine gold even for
potatoes, and a couple of
hundredweight of spuds to the
acre was reckoned an average
crop outside the New England
and Circular Head.
These were the days when
everybody worked on starvation-
rations, worked the clock round
to the limit and the last aching
muscle and the last blade of
grass.
Even the earth had the limit
load put on it without benefit of
Wages Boards. It was ploughed
and planted and eaten-out and
overstocked as much as it would
stand. And then much of it was
abandoned to the banks, if the
banks would take it, or sold to
somebody else, who sold it
again, while poor stock and
overcropping reduced it to a
desert —for want of a feed of
good, healthy fertiliser.
By the middle of the 1930’5, a
vast area of Australia was
becoming even worse than the
County of Cumberland, which
had taken such a beating without
fresh nourishment in the pioneer
days that it has never recovered,
and perhaps never will.
Who would believe that much
of the seemingly barren acres
of our first county, with the hard
rows of plough-marks running
across their aridity, once pro-
duced 30 bushels to the acre?
However, it did —and 25 years
ago expansion of the methods
used upon it, encouraged by low
production and unstable and
cheap export - markets, was
reducing Australia to a land of
eroded gullies and ringbarked
paddocks.
Nobody could have forecast
that, a war would change all that
and provide the incentive and the
means to revolution through
world shortages and high and
regular prices, together with the
scientific know-how and the
development of power-
machinery.
Yet ,a decade saw a revolution
in process; another one is
bringing it to fulfilment in a
completely new age.
IYj
npHE processes were orderly on
the whole.
First, the heavy-duty plant
which had been used in war had
become adaptable for land-
clearing and land-cleaning at
reasonable cost. It would have
taken an army of navvies to
clean-up some eroded paddocks
before World War 11.
There was timber-land, like the
heavily wooded area of Oberon
(N.S.W.), which could not have
been handled in an elephant’s
month of Sundays. Economically
to put it into agriculture would
have been beyond the hopes of
even big capital.
Open country was undergoing
pasture-improvement of a sort.
The South Australian clovers
were being acclimatised and
evolved into an improver without
precedent; turning some areas,
particularly in Western Australia,
into payable sheep-brazing
propositions.
Generally speaking, however,
the results were patchy, save
where there was capital to
operate on a broad scale on a
relatively large area.
Then the heavy-machine age
arrived and took the human-
labor content out of almost
every large-scale chore of the
farm.
It enabled surfaces to be
pushed about—contouring to be
done in a week which would have
taken months before; absorp-
tion banks to be built to hold
the water and seep it off with a
wide spread, instead of allowing
it to follow the softest lie where
the trees had been killed and the
surface broken with the plough.
It made possible the economical
clearing of heavily timbered
land.
It enabled water-trenches to be
built, irrigation to swell in
magnitude on a national scale.
It made possible, in the
ultimate, such plans as the Snowy
Mountains scheme, which will
not only supply immense power-
resources but will feed the
water, which has generated it,
into a kingdom the size of
Denlnark, capable of carry-
ing a population of a couple of
million between the Murray and
the Murrumbidgee.
Presently the same machine-
revolution will cover the whole
eastern coastal area with the
water- and power-products of
similar schemes —its benefits
available only because of the
intensive development which has
come to individual holdings, paid
for from soaring prices of the
post-war years.
The changes which have taken
place in this respect can scarcely
be measured in terms of
reclaimed land. It is almost
impossible to travel in any part
of New South Wales and the
more accessible parts of other
eastern States without seeing
reclaimed eroded-soil sprouting
artificial pastures every few miles,
and without meeting men of the
Reclamation Department, or
seeing new trees growing to make
great windbreaks and new green
paddocks among the brown.
Mechanisation has had a fresh
fillip with every rise in the cost
of man-labor apd with every
fresh shrinkage of farm-labor as
youngsters bred on the land went
off to the cities.
The figures are a fair guide,
but not altogether ; they take no
account of the steadily increasing
work-capacity of the machines
coming into use:
In the five years 1950-55 the
number of rotary-hoes in use in
N. S. Wales doubled; the
number of fertiliser-distributors
and -broadcasters rose from
7941 to 14,733, and motor-trucks
and utilities went up from
37,188 to 53,800.
Bank-advances to primary
producers in N.S.W. grew in
seven years from £109,000,000 to
£213,000,000, a growth closely
related to mechanisation and
and
-improvement.
Tractors have grown in
number in Australia from 59,000
in 1945 to almost 200,000 in
March, 1956. And so much has
the tractor, with its great power
take-off and versatility and
mobility, played its part that
Australia is now tractorised to
a greater extent in relation to
farm-labor than any other
country in the world except the
United States.
In the U.S. (on the calculation
of the Bank of New South
Wales) the figure is 55 tractors
to every 100 workers perman-
ently engaged in rural industry.
Here the figure is 50 tractors to
the 100 workers.
As the inventiveness of the
farm mechanic transmits tractor-
power to new types of farm
machinery, such as forage-
harvesters and pick-up balers,
usage will become more intense,
and it is likely to have a con-
siderable fillip from the inclu-
sion of hydraulic mechanism in
new tractor types and the
application of tractor techniques
to bulldozing, hydraulic hoists
and buckrakes, not to mention
the larger-scale jobs of heavy
earthmoving-plant and that for
bulk forest-clearing, which are
available on a contract basis to
o Continued 'on page 32)


PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT IS
FASTER • EASIER • CHEAPER
WHEN YOU USE
OLIVER-
BRITSTAHD
EQUIPMENT
For all classes of property improvement
whether it be control of soil erosion,
water harvesting, clearing, etc., the
fastest, cheapest and easiest method is
obtained when you use equipment from
Oliver-Britstand’s extensive range.
Check the equipment shown below and
see which type are best suited for your
property improvement tasks.
m
• • •
USE THIS BRITSTAND EQUIPMENT FOR
• Soil Erosion
• Water Harvesting,
• Clearing etc.
n
BRITSTAND GRADER DITCHER
Here’s a unit that is a • combination Grader and
Ditcher with a repiarkable performance in ditching,
cleaning drains, making; hanks, shifting drift,
levelling, fire-breaks and private road works.
Ruggedly constructed throughout, the Britstand
Grader Ditcher will handle a wide variety of tasks
at an amazingly low cost. The Britstand Grader
Ditcher is the original Grader Ditcher and still leads
in every way—stronger, greater working capacity,
higher throat clearance, husky life-time plain bear-
ings, trouble-free release hitch. •
BRITSTAND ROTO SCRAPER
The Britstand Roto Scraper suits all wheel
crawler Tractors and is the only machine in
its class that positively locks the cutting edge
in or out of the ground—lets the operator
control the size of the load from the Tractor
seat. This versatile implement enables the
man on the land to carry out numerous light
earthmoving jobs with amazing ease and
speed.
mn
m
n
BRITSTAND REVOLVING HEAD RIPPER
This one man operated, single tyne, Revolving Head
Ripper is a low cost machine of sturdy construc-
tion, with simple rope control from the Tractor.
Digging depth is adjustable to 26in.—for- Tractors
of 20-35 d.b.h.p. Ideal for rapid construction, contour
drains, ripping before tanksinking and general
ripping.
BRITSTAND 2-WHEEL ROTARY SCOOP
Britstand 2-Wheel Rotary Scoops are designed
for larger earthnioving jobs around the
property. The automatic models feature only
two finger operated control ropes _ which
control all movements of the bowl. Britstand
2-Wheel Rotary Scoops work tirelessly under
the worst conditions —In very soft earth or
under the wettest conditions. Available in
both automatic or hydraulically controlled
models for Tractors or 20-40 d.b.h.p.
I
mn
BRITSTAND SILT SCOOPS
Britstand Silt Scoops are your best buy tor cleaning
or enlarging tanks on your property. In operation,
the hinged frame of the Britstand Silt Scoop enables
the full load to be carried without damage to the
batter. The Model 53 Suits 35-30 D.B.H.P. Tractors
and the Model 63 44-80 D.B.H.P. Tractors.
m m m
here’s a selection
from the mighty OLIVER
range of Crawlers
Illustrated above is the Oliver Model OC-12, an extremely
ruggedly built Tractor of 53.05 D.B.H.P. Its longer
track frame gives exceptionally long ground contact,
ensuring greater traction. With high and low speed
reverse gears, it is ideally suited for all types of farm
work.
MODEL OC-3
Smallest of the Oliver Crawler
Tractor range is the Oliver
Model OC-3—a machine of 22
D.B.H.P. able to supply ample
power for the farmer with
small to medium holdings.
The only hoe crop cultivating
Crawler Tractor built.
sf
* %
MODEL AD
Here is the answer to agri-
cultural tractive power on
medium to large holdings.
The Oliver Model AD will
handle any job on your farm
in any season, in the toughest
going. Drawbar HJP. 30.5.
MODEL OC-6
The Oliver Model OC-fi
Crawler Tractor is a compact
unit of 32 D.B.H.P. ideally
suited for all agricultural
tasks. Designed, like all
Olivers, to give full traction
under all conditions.
es-r
Please send me, without obligation, full details
on Oliver OCI2 ( ), Oliver OC3 ( ), Oliver
AD ( ), Oliver OC-6 ( ), Grader Ditcher
( ), Roto Scraper ( ), Revolving Head
Ripper ( ), 2-Wheel Rotary Scoop ( ), Silt
Scoop ( ). .... . ~ .
Name
Address '. 1
BRITISH STANDARD MACHINERY CO. LTD.
520-530 Gardeners Road, Mascot. MU 2411.
distributors in all states of the commonwealth
N.S.W.: Britstand Distributors Ltd., 637 Gardeners Road, Mascot, N.S.W. MU 3911-8.
VIC * : & EngineCring C °' Pty ‘ Ltd ’ 17 ' 23 Queen’s Bridge Street,
QLD.; Dominion Motors (Q’land) Ltd., 365-379 Wickham Street, Brisbane. L 1751.
TAS.. Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 72 Federal Street, Hobart.
S.A.. Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Adelaide.
W.A.. Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., 900 Hay Street, Perth. BA 9361.
N.Z.: Frederic W. Smith, 8-12 The Terrace, Wellington.


develop all sorts of improve-
ment, from water-supply to the
cure of erosion and the treat-
ment of stony hillsides.
The reflection of the revolu-
tion in general can be seen in the
fact that Australia, with a
growth of population of about
two-million from 1945, has been
fed (if sometimes precariously)
and exports have been kept up
with an actual land labor-force
slightly less than that employed
before the war and working
under conditions of shorter
hours and a shorter week and
fourfold wages.
A measure of the change may
be indicated by the fact that (he
area of sown grasses and clovers
on our continent has increased
2j times since before the war,
to a present 26,000,000 acres
(only a beginning of what is to
come), and the output of farm-
industry machinery has
expanded from a sale valued at
less than £3i million in 1938-39
to £25,000,000 a year now.
With the dramatic elimination
of the rabbit, and all that that
implies in carrying-capacity and
relief from prevention- and
maintenance-costs, and with the
development of the technique of
aerial pest-eradication and
fertiliser-spreading, and sowing
also from the air, this expansion
must accelerate so long as
markets expand to absorb our
products, and prices make it
payable to industrialise the
farms.
V
OEHIND the spread of mobile
-*-* farm-power and extension
of electricity and of road-trans-
port lie many factors which
belong to the current age, and
without which all the heavy-duty
power and water-supply expan-
sion and the Hew accessibility
brought by motor - traction
would have been futile.
Perhaps equal to the mechani-
cal revolution, or even greater
as an influence, is the tiny trace-
element, the mighty atom of
the new age in agriculture, the
factor which plays a greater part
in increasing carrying-capacity
and making intensive stocking
possible than anything else.
Nobody knows how it works.
But work it does, like the acid
that sets the soda fizzing, the
match that starts the blaze.
So minute are the quantities
of mineral that pure analysis will
not show the nature of the trace-
element deficiency in soils, but
bit by bit the scientists have
pieced together a conspectus of
the tell-tale symptoms which
show what is missing.
When on clover-land the
plants are small and pale-green
or yellow, and nodulation is
poor, they spot the deficiency
of nitrogen, sulphur or molyb-
denum ; when the plants grow
a darker green than normal,
perhaps with purple - brown
streaks, they know the soil is
deficient in phosphorus. Plants
standing upright and at flower-
ing showing leaves of pale-green
with a silver mottle are crying
out for copper; and smaller-
than-normal leaves, grey-green
with red streaks, are the
indicators of zinc-starvation.
In all lands on which there is
mineral deficiency, fertilisers
were, in some degree, thrown
away. It would be difficult to
calculate how many young
enthusiasts have had their faith
in modern methods of pasture-
improvement destroyed in the
past because the land lacked the
vital spark and because scientific
discovery had not reached out
into the realms in which the
reason could be probed.
VI
'T'HERE are, according to the
C.5.1.R.0., four main types
of pasture-improvement which
call for the application of certain
specific principles.
The first type applies to con-
ditions which were rife and still
exist in parts of Gippsland
(Vic.) and central Victoria and
on the southern tableland of
N.S.W. The properties are
uncleared land, poor, the clover
and trefoils about destroyed, by
the rabbits, or absent altogether.
Sometimes there is shortage of
nitrogen or trace-elements, so
that superphosphate brings no
response in fertility.
Here the first job is to get
rid of the rabbit and to do
judicious clearing which does
not move trees likely to prevent
Erosion (“A lesson for us all,” say the N.S.W. Soil Conservationists).
erosion—Ae., those in gullies,
and those likely to give shelter
for stock or from winds.
Next conies the test for trace-
elements, a test of which the
results have revolutionised
southern-tableland grazing in
N.S.W., where the deficiency
was molybdenum, and in the
Ninety Mile Desert area in
South Australia, where the
A.M.P. has its schemes, and
where the spark needed was zinc
and copper, without which
clover-pasture could not be.
To establish what the
deficiency is calls for plot-trials
of the 10 principal elements
used in a process of elimination
with lime and super. How
critical the effects can be is
shown by the fact that 34-lb.
borax or 71b. copper-sulphate or
zinc-sulphate to the acre makes
the difference between good
clover-land and no clover worth
'the name.
The quantity of molybdenum-
trioxide needed to spark the
growing-qualities of an acre is
only loz. And even then, unless
the soil-bacteria for proper
nodulation is present, that
nodulation must be achieved
through use of a culture before
sowing.
Next, in the improvement
programme, down goes a broad-
cast of sub.-clover mixed with
super, as an improver, the soil
being broken with a tiller or
scratched with a combine.
Then, as clearing progresses
and fencing goes up for proper
subdivision, the land becomes
ready for permanent artificial-
pasturage —perennial-rye, cocks-
foot and Phalaris tuberosa.
And so presently, with water
in every paddock and water-
points carefully placed, you
have a modern farm earning
better than a competence,
instead of “eating its head off.”
The second standard type of
properties which need improve-
ment to make them an asset are
those overstocked for years and
scored in consequence with the
gullies and chasms of erosion.
North-eastern and central Vic-
toria and tablelands N.S.W. have
plenty of examples to offer.
These are likely to have been
leached of their lime, nitrogen,
phosphorus and sulphur, and
perhaps there may, again, be
mineral-trace-element deficiency
as well.
The doctor orders contour-
furrowing to hold and distribute
the water as it flows down the
hillsides. Or, more commonly in
modern technique, contour-
ripping.
In this process a tractor-ripper
cuts 12in. to 18in. down across
the contour, tearing out a
channel beneath the soil-surface
and throwing up only a small
ridge, which does not interfere
with the passage of vehicles as
do contour-furrows. The sub-
soil is broken into to allow it
to drink internally what would
otherwise be run-off water and
distribute it through seepage.
Across the heads of gullies
already formed diversion-banks
are built. There is a tree-
planting programme —for the
kinds of country of which these
eroded farms consist are much
subject to bitter winds which
damage pastures and kill-off
lambs.
At the inception of the' 1
improvement - plan temporary
pastures of red-clover and the
new HI N.Z.-ryegrass—very
quick-growing—are alternated
with maize for soil-improve-
ment ; and finally come maize
and oats alternated with two
years of red-clover, or four or
six years of pasture alternated
with a year of maize or oats.
Next on the list of types are
the properties, to be found
everywhere, on which the soil is
moderately fertile, either
through the presence of native
clovers or through partial
improvement by the laying-
down of temporary artificial-
pastures.
All that is called for here is
the preparation, paddock by
paddock, of seed-beds and the
sowing-down of permanent
pastures. In frosty districts they
put down oats, perhaps, as a
cover-crop with the pasture
mixture —as a shelter for the
pasture seedlings, a weed-con-
troller, and a tasty winter fodder
for the ewes. 'Lucerne goes into
the flats for cutting as a reserve.
The richer land is perfected first,
then the poorer, thus improving
the financial returns at highest
possible level from the
beginning.
Lastly come those farms
which, having rich alluvial or
volcanic soil, and. having been
subjected to pasture-improve-
ment for years, were looked on
under an older regime as the
“ants’ pants” in agricultural
forwardness.
Today, no improver
acknowledges perfection. Land
like this gets the works to bring
its high production higher for
a less intake of fertilisers. Some
land on the southern N.S.W.
tablelands which has had 2cwt.
of super, a year for four years
has been built-up to such a level
in phosphorus, lime and sulphur
that the super, can be cut down
without reducing output of
pasture growth.
VII
A LL these types of improve-
ment *have had their tech-
niques carefully worked out, and
where private experience is lack-
ing the range of advisory litera-
ture available fr o m the
C.5.1.R.0. and from State Agri-
cultural Departments is
abundant and comprehensive,
while also the Reclamation
Departments and Pasture
Improvement Departments of
the States have advisory officers
skilled and thoroughly know-
ledgeable, continually prodding
and persuading the farmers of
their districts.
As well, there are the
technical-service sections which
themselves work on actual pro-
jects, and which have specialised
heavy machinery for hire with
which the private owner can do
his own work under advice if
necessary.
These departments are, for
practical purposes, a post-war
growth, born out of the real
emergency indicated by the fact
that a soil-survey in 1941-43
showed that —to take the oldest
State as an example—approxi-
mately 50 per cent, of the eastern
and central .divisions of N.S.W.
was suffering from erosion to
some extent, and much of it to
a great extent.
In N.S.W. there are research-
stations from Inverell to Wagga
dealing with erosion, its cause's
and cures. In the ultimate the
objective of the job is the build-
ing and maintenance of a
satisfactory cover of useful
vegetation for the soil ; but in
practice this is somewhat com-
plicated, since difference of soils
and terrains calls for different
covers.
One of the greatest problems
being faced in the Snowy
Mountains scheme is the
holding-up of the soil of
mountainsides after the bases of
the hills have been scored with
highways and other man-made
projects which have changed the
direction of water-flow. A
fascinating pamphlet could be
written about the trial-and-error
methods employed in solving this
problem —methods which wiln
later prove of general importance
in saving hillside soil, when we
have passed beyond the stage
in which it is now generally
still looked on over vast areas of
the continent as just “so much
more dirt.” .
N.S.W. now has 11 district
offices and 44 sub-district centres
operating on soil-conservation
and -reclamation, their officers
preaching the doctrine that soil
is the most valuable commodity
the country possesses, the ore
from which is smelted its huge
needs of food and fodder and
saleable primary exports which
give us our external income.
It differs from, mineral ores
in that it need not be exhaustible
but can be enriched again and
again, no matter how barren and
waterless it may be, so long as
mechanical and technical skill
can keep pace with its needs.
Even the coastal sand-drifts
and the shifting hills of the
interior are subject to extensive
experiment, the lands in which
wind-erosion is an enormous
problem, and in which great
areas have become scalded
wastes through stocking and
drought.
The work has begun none too
soon. It was estimated last year
that in the wheat areas alone in
N.S.W. 16,000,000 acres were
gullied by erosion—only a million
less acres than Japan's total of
arable land, which supports a
farm-population of 37,000,000
and produces something like an
average of 13,000,000 tons of
grain, much of it in gardened
terraces on sleep hillsides which
would be here Ipoked on
waste-land.
Already soil - conservation
service in N.S.W. has constructed
or supervised the construction of
earthworks o,n 4500 farms cover-
ing about 6,000,000 acres —only
a percentage of the acreage is
eroded, of course.
VIII
’T'HUS the work of reclamation,
conservation and enrich-
ment has opened a new view of
the Australian future with the
coming of trace-elements, of the
clovers, of heavy machinery and
the expansion of power-traction
and its uses.
It is a basic axiom now that
there is no poor soil in Australia
which cannot be made to
produce by enrichment in trace-
elements and fertiliser ; there is
no soil which cannot be made
use of if it has water.
The supposedly arid desert of
Wycliffe Wells in the central
Northern Territory produced—
though at great cost —an Army
garden during the war which
would have startled agriculturists
anywhere in the world by the
size of its products. The
mandarins and lemons of dry
western Queensland and the
Barkly Tableland are succulent
giants.
Along the verges of one of the
driest roads in Australia —that
which runs south to Alice Springs
Earthmoving-machinery moves in on erosion.


YOU WON'T FIND A TRACTOR
TO MATCH THI
FERGUSON
petrol
REfiOSENEf
D/ESEL f
FERGUSON SYSTEM
, ft
' •* T w ~~*s Hv - '
'
28S®§1
am
s&
Ss
/* p V*»i|
;•V • • -• i ? .
•mz
mm
m
v :
MM
S5S®B
You can look around. You can ask your friends. You can read ffie cata-
logues. You can study the advertisements, BUT YOU won't find a Tractor that:
1. Consistently uses less fuel than
the FERGUSON.
2. Is more versatile than the FER-
GUSON.
3. Is more swiftly, more easily ad-
justable than the FERGUSON.
4. Has a more efficient 3-point link-
age than the FERGUSON.
5. Has a more accurate hydraulic
depth control than the FER-
GUSON.
6. Has surer automatic protection
against hidden obstacles than the
FERGUSON.
7. Has a safer built-in starter than
the FERGUSON.
—that is why FERGUSON offers you
more for your money than any other
tractor.
68
IMPLEMENTS
FROM WHICH TO CHOOSE
• l
The Ferguson, with its range
of 68 implements, is the
greatest aid to the man on the
land yet devised.
Everywhere, everyone is
proving it faster to work,
cheaper to operate, more
manoeuvrable and easier to
handle.
Cet full particulars of the Ferguson now. A demonstration
will be gladly arranged on your own property—without
obligation.
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD.
156 Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane.
Distributors for Queensland, Northern Rivers N.S.W., and
Northern Territory.
NOW
To BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
156 Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane.
Please send me full details of the FERGUSON Svstem.{
NAME
ADDRESS
8.N7r9121«
from Powells Creek—strips of
trees that have never been
known in the area before have
sprung up where a little more
water than usual has been
preserved in the drainage-ditches.
The result of all this in the
transformation of the vision of
the future is beyond measure.
The estimates of the carrying-
capacity in population of this
continent a generation ago
among sober thinkers varied
from 20,000,000 to 35,000,000.
Today, with atomic power in its
beginnings and a giant tech-
nology capable of operating
without coal-supplies just over
the horizon, and with the
prospect of channelling waters
gradually out into the interior,
the vista of agricultural great-
ness is opening up across the
land as never before, and there
seems no limit, within te'nturies,
to the productive capacity of this
continent or> to its ability to
add to its population till it
reaches European concentration,
and that on economic standards.
One element which is promot-
ing development is human. The
land, with its greater earning-
power for the individual both as
an employee and as a farmer or
grazier, is attracting to it new
types and developing new
professions. The tide is begin-
ning to turn for the ambitious
away from the cities.
The young scientist, the
technically-educated youngster
with an engineering bent, the
young man with a veterinary
education—they are looking to
the soil in increasing numbers,
in preference to the law and
medicine, as a means of using
capital and skill.
The advance-guard of these
will soon contribute immensely
to the vast changes in land-
improvement and -productivity.
Sheep on Stubbles
“Chippewa”: Sheep can be in
leal trouble on stubbles if they
are driven far to the paddock in
the first place, and left on
stubble too long before they jet
used to it —especially if much
grain has been left there by the
header.
Best to give them a good feed
of grass before going into the
stubble, and to get them used to
it gradually—as little as half-an-
hour the first day is a good idea.
Vaccination against “pulpy
kidney” is another wise pre-
caution.
As weaners are often too timid
to venture into the straw, run
a few wethers or old ewes with
them. Stubble feed often doesn’t
last as long as appearance might
suggest. Hence it is wise to move
sheep as soon as there isn’t
enough feed to maintain their
condition. Loss of weight at this
period could be very detrimental
to forward in-lamb ewes.
Go around the flock
thoroughly and make sure no
sheep is down out of sight in
‘the straw.
As blowflies are active in
stubble, jet the flock with
diazinon or dieldrin before
letting the sheep in. Thistles can
cause scabby-mouth, and flower-
ing stinkwort can kill sheep
suddenly/
Be sure there’s plenty of clean
water and that the paddock is
fireproof. Finally, graze stubble
leniently if it contains young
lucerne, clovers or medics.
Harnessed Geysers
“Uramao”: Members of the
Russian agricultural delegation,
on their tour of New Zealand,
saw something quite new to
thepij and of which they took
special notice. That was the
geothermal-ppwer project at
Wairakei, where the energy
from geysers has been harnessed.
The Deputy Minister of
Agriculture, C. I. Voronov, said
there were geysers in Siberia and
other parts of Russia, but no
attempt had been made to
harness them for converting into
power.
New Zealand, with its
numerous spouting geysers dis-
sipating power into thin air, was
of much the same mind as Russia
till N.Z. geologist M. Ongley'
saw what was being done in
Italy and on his return stirred
up Enzedders to get to work.
That’s only a few years ago.
Price Records
“Wyuna”: Recently reading a
biography of Daniel Defoe I
came across mention of a
friend of his refusing £26 per
head for four bullocks and of
having let a field for hay at £l2
per acre.
Put to present-day values
these prices would make the
mouths of cattle - breeders
water.
Also, I have before me some
prices realised at a sale by
Robertson at Colac (Vic.) on
January 7, 1876, when money
was sovereigns and there was
no income tax to speak of.
Roan Duchess, a 26-months-old
heifer, was sold for 2200gns„
and the whole yarding of 118
lots —sold in 4{- hours —realised
£30,807 7s.
These figures make present
record-prices look a bit silly.
These were Shorthorn cattle,
and d quote from Pastures New
(Billis and Kenyons):
“The Robertsons would never
sell by private treaty. They
pledged themselves to offer no
animal for sale except by
auction at the annual sales and
there would be no reserves
whatever. Also, every female
was guaranteed a breeder.”
New Tomato
“Billjim”: The “paste-type”
tomato, very popular in the
U.S., has been developed to
produce a new, high-yielding,
wilt-resistant variety called
Roma, which derives its wilt-
resistance from Pan-America, a
Variety bred originally from a
wild Peruvian tomato.
Roma grows to a size suitable
for planting 3ft. to 4ft. apart
each way. The fruit grow in
clusters of three to five, mature
to a length of 2-2|in. with a
diameter of li-lfin., and have
fleshy walls, small seed-cells and
bright red pulp with high total
solids.
Crosscuts
“Uramao”: When Shackleton
was in the Antarctic 48 years
ago some grains of corn used
for feeding the Manchurian
ponies were spilled. There they
remained (at Cape Royds) till
Capt. Cadwalader, of this year’s
U.S. expedition, saw them and
took them back home. The 15
frozen grains thawed-out fresh,
so he planted them on his
mother’s farm near Philadelphia.
Only one came up. This was
treated with pollen from a
regular patch, and it developed
into a plant Bft. high with three
ears. The gathered corn was
sent to the Department of
Agriculture at Washington,
which is submitting it to fertility-
tests. Experts believe that the
one freezing without subsequent
thawings is responsible for the
grain’s own fertility.
* * *
“Stalk”: Origin of maize is
still puzzling agricultural
scientists the world over. When
white men arrived in North
America they found the Indians
growing the cereal for food, but
the questions of how and where
they got the seed have so far
defied answer, for maize has
never been found growing wild
anywhere in the world.
* * *
“Blufire”: A seven-year-old
crossbred-ewe at Hazelwood
Flats, near Morwell (Vic.), is a
possible record - holder for
productivity, having produced
14 lambs in five years. In the
first and second years she had
twins; in the third and fourth
years, triplets, and in the latest,
quadruplets.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
C9/12/’56)
Queensland should experience heavy rains on the coast
during January, leading to flooding from Rockhampton
northward and inland to Clermont. Rainfall should be
patchy elsewhere; poor in the south-west and southern-
border areas.
Coast and tablelands of N.S.W. should have reasonably
good rams during January, with heavy falls on the Far North
Coast; patchy in the western division.
General rains above average should be recorded in
most of Victoria during January, with heaviest falls in the
central division. Gippsland an exception, with mainly liaht
rain. s
In South Australia good rain should occur in the agri-
cultural areas during January, but light in the interior.
However, good general rains should come in February.
January is likely to be a hot and dry month in W.A.,
although good may be experienced in February.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Suez
There will never he any permanent
settlement of the Suez Canal problem
unless Egypt’s so-called sovereign rights
there, including freehold, are acquired
by. the rest of the world. This can only be
done by straight out purchase. It is just
a question of price. Make it high enough
arid sooner or later Egypt will accept,
though possibly not while Nasser is in
power.
It would be cheap at the price of an
Aswan Dam. An International Bank
could handle the finance and act as trustee.
Every nation would be given the right,
now or in the future, to subscribe a quota
based on a formula of population, pro-
duction and relative factors. Eventually,
after sinking-funds had amortised loans,
the concern would be non-profit-making,
or profits to be devoted to improvements.
Such a scheme would result in the canal
becoming virtually an elongation of the
natural Red Sea, with additional safe-
guards for absolute neutrality as the key-
note of the project. There is no insuper-
able obstacle to defining and maintaining
such a neutral area.
The Louisiana Purchase and the buying
of Alaska from Russia by the U.S.A. are
precedents. Can there be any other
solution to the Suez business? —R. W. M.
(Vic.).
•
Means Tests
“Peekay’s” case for parents being
allowed to do as they like with child-
endowment (B. 5/12/’56) makes me
wonder what argument there is in favor
of a means-test for invalid and old-age
pensioners when there is no such test for
child-endowment. •
A millionaire is entitled to child-
endowment for his children, but should
his aged father strike hard times he will
have to suffer a strict means-test before
he can get the pension.
If we had a means-test for child-endow-
ment, even on $ very generous scale, the
millions saved would more than pay the
extra cost of abolishing the means-test
for the aged and invalid pensioners.—
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Lotteries
Lotteries can’t be blamed for all the
trouble in the world (J. E. Webb, B.
28 /11 / ’56).
It’s easy to blame something we don’t
like as the cause of all evil, but our
prejudice doesn’t always stand up to an
examination of the facts. During the last
war, church-attendances increased, but so
did de facto wives. Who would be bold
enough to link these as cause and
effect?
Lotteries can be abused, but so can
many other harmless pastimes. Many
lotteries serve a useful purpose. Take
Queensland’s Golden Casket. The profits
have enabled the State to build-up an
excellent hospital service which is free to
any needy person. Do away with the
Casket and what have you left? Increased
taxation on all to find the extra money
and no option of participation. Taxation
is one thing you can’t dodge, but you
don’t have to buy lottery-tickets unless
you want to.
The industrial expansion of England
had nothing to do with the absence of
lotteries. Any economic historian
will tell you that England was
first in this field because it had a
ready command of capital. This
had been accumulated during
the period when “the manana
spirit” prevailed. On top of this,
Britain was faced with a scarcity
of labor, expanding markets, a
free population and political
security.
A mercantile background had
trained Britain for large-scale
business overseas, and its geo-
graphical position and suprem-
acy at sea made the new markets
accessible. Add rich deposits
of iron and coal and it’s easy
to see why-England cradled the
Industrial Revolution.
Has the banning of lotteries
caused the United States to
become so powerful? What
about giving credit to the vast
deposits of minerals and oil,
especially the latter, which have
enabled the U.S. to hold Eng-
land and Western Europe to
ransom as a result of the Middle I
East crisis?
If America, had drained
its coffers dry in the cause •
of freedom in two world wars
while England had acted the role
of “universal provider” to the rest of the
world, I doubt if these countries would be
in the position they are today.
The crux of the matter is that gambling
is inherent in man’s character. In
countries such as the U.S.A. horse-racing,
cards, poker and fruit-machines take the
place of the lottery, and it would be
interesting to know which take the most
money—the lottery or other games of
chance.
I don’t promote lotteries, but I think
everything must be viewed in its right
perspective. The evils of the lottery can
be overrated when compared with go-
slow strikes, industrial sabotage, vandal-
ism, wage-grabs and other social vices.
And these ar£ found in all countries,
whether blessed by the absence of lotteries
or otherwise. — Robbi (Q.).
State lotteries were not a cause of the
decline of Spain and Portugal, nor did
the immense industrial and imperial
expansion of England date from the
abolition of lotteries in the U.K. in the
19th century.
Various factors contributed to Spain’s
decline in the 17th century:
Too great a migration from a thinly-
peopled country to the American colonies.
“When you come to a brick wall and I don't say 'Halt' —
use your initiative."
Emigration of some of the most valu-
able racial stocks. Salvador Madariaga,
in his Portrait of Europe, declares that a
large proportion of the Conquistadores
were of Gothic origin. He considers this
“Germanic element” one of the most
vigorous and constructive in Spain’s racial
make-up, and believes that the basic cause
of the decline of Spain may be traceable
to “the gradual absorption of her
Germanic element in the general Iberian
stock.” He further suggests that “the true
approach to a rebirth of Spain might well
be restocking with German blood.”
Some other factors:
Exhaustion through the long struggle
in the 16th and first-half of the 17th
centuries with both the North European
Protestants and the Moslems.
“Oh, drawer!"
Too bureaucratic an administration,
and, after Phillip 11, sovereigns of
mediocre ability.
Contempt for commerce and industry
on the part of thef upper- and middle-
classes. Their younger sons preferred
the Church, the liberal professions,
armed services, the bureaucracy, or the
life of a landed proprietor in the colonies;
A bad financial system.
' Ah economic policy deliberately
intended to restrict business-profits —
imports of goods competitive with
Spanish manufactures were even subsi-
dised to further this purpose. As a result
Spanish secondary industries were greatly
weakened.
The lottery, as a means of raising
revenue, was introduced into England in
1568 and flourished through Elizabeth’s
reign—so fruitful in achievement in
letters, enterprise and war.
Lotteries were not done away with in
the U.K. until 1826, but British imperial
and industrial greatness did not begin with
the 1830’s —the foundations of both were
laid in the 18th century, when not only
did the lottery flourish but people were
so keen on a bet that they would wager
on anything.
By the 1830’s most of the British
Empire was in being and the United
Kingdom already led the world in indus-
trialisation and scientific discovery.—
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
The Wilcannia Long Dam
A. Austin (B. 7 /11 /’56) says that a dam
200-300 ft. high would dwarf the Snowy
as regards hydroelectric power. I haven’t
the exact data available, but the total
drop in the Kiewa (Vic.) scheme is 4500 ft.
and I think the Snowy is more. Two-
hundred feet is only a pup.—P. C. M.
(Vic.).
Steam and Diesel
In B. 20/10/’56 I quoted the views
of the chief .mechanical-engineer of
British Railways as expressed in a speech
to the Diesel Engine Users’ Association, a
combination hardly conducive to irrespon-
sible statement. The C.M.E. made it
clear that the diesel-electric loco, would
have to work hard to earn capital charges
in competition with modern steam-power,
a view supported by meticulously accurate
figures and based on current prices of
£95,000 and £35,000 for the two types of
power.
I don’t suggest that conditions in the
U.K. are identical with those in Australia,
but does ; “Four Threes” (B. *l3/11 /’56)
really expect me to believe the press-
statement of the Victorian Commissioner
—a statement which is nonsense unless
supported at least by reasonable figures—
to the effect that diesels in Victoria are
operating at one-fifth the cost of steam?
The State has only recently taken delivery
of the last of possibly the largest order
for steam-locos, ever placed overseas
some 130 units, worth about £4,000,000.
How does one account for that? Don’t
tell me they hadn’t heard about the
diesel! .
“Y. Tope” contradicts my figure of
£200,000 (latest Bulletin figure makes it
£250,000) and says you could buy two
diesels for that. But that’s the point.
You use two. You even used two on the
tiny Royal train, and on practically all
the more spectacular efforts today the
“Overland,” the special run to Brisbane,
the fast “diesel freights”—diesels have to
be used in pairs.
Capital costs of the displaced steam-
jobs would range from about £5OOO up to
£55,000 for the AD6O class pf N.S.W. If
the diesel can cover the difference at
around 12 per cent, and still run for a
fraction of'the cost of a steam-loco, it
must be an even more remarkable
machine than its salesmen would have us
believe. — Transporticus (Singapore).
Cahill’s Opera House
Despite the efforts of the A.B.C. to keep
interest alive in N.S.W. Premier Cahill’s
opera-house, the news that Carnegie Hall
in the U.S. is to be demolished to make
way for an office-block could finish the
plan to spend at least £1,000,000 on an
opera-house for Sydney.
American musical interests couldn’t or
wouldn’t raise the money necessary to
take another lease of Carnegie Hall,
demonstrating that interest is waning in
the type of entertainment for which the
hall was famous. Covent Garden, too,
has been in the red for some years.
Much as we may regret lack of public
interest in high-class entertainment, we
must face the fact that TV is rapidly
superseding it overseas and will do the
same in Australia if the right type of
programme is provided.
The revelation that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has had to raise £8,000,000 to see it
through the balance of this financial year
should be sufficient to induce Premier
Cahill to abandon his proposal to finance
the building of an opera-house. His
transport-system is practically bankrupt,
and there is widespread public demand for
the building of additional hospitals,
schools, roads and bridges. Should there
be any further quarterly cost-of-living
increases, the Government, on its own
admission, will be in Queer-street.
Mr. Cahill should call-off the opera-
house proposal and face the minority
criticism that would follow his announce-
ment. Since he is already committed to
providing at least £BOOO in prizemoney
for the opera-house design, he could keep
faith by paying that and then pigeon-
holing the plans for at least five years. If
the financial outlook is then bright
enough, and if there is evidence that a
worth-while number of people really
desire an opera-house in Sydney, the
Government of the day should seek the
approval of the Loan Council to raise a
special loan to finance the project.
That would give the people who really
want opera -for opera’s sake an oppor-
tunity to demonstrate their confidence in
both its cultural and financial future by
subscribing the necessary money.—Petek
Simple (N.S.W.).


Trams and Buses
If Sydney really believes that a further
switch from trams to buses will help
transport-finances (B. 7/11 /’56), it would
believe anything. The one thing about
the tram which is hardly in dispute is its
relative cheapness.
Not that the increased cost of buses is
necessarily apparent. An item such as
the destruction of suburban street-surfaces
is not a direct charge against the bus,
although the full responsibility for the
maintenance of far more road than it
uses is a very important factor in the tram
balance-sheet.
Melbourne’s H. H. Bell could have told
Sydney that; but, then, Bell was unique.
Not only was he outstandingly good at
his job but no equipment salesman told
him how to run his show. Unfortunately
the Sydney climate does not seem to raise
public servants of his calibre.—-Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
The Constitution
“Ceg’s” doubts about the Constitution
giving the Commonwealth power to issue
wireless-licences and enter into the broad-
cast-entertainment business are answered
to some extent in Nevins’s History of
the U.S.A.
Over 150 years ago Jefferson said:
“The Constitution [U.S.A.] expressly
declares all the powers which belong to
the Federal Government and reserves all
other powers to the States.” It is the same
in Australia. Jefferson objected to Hamil-
ton starting a national bank: “For no-
where does the Constitution say the
Federal Government may set up a bank.”
Hamilton replied that “all the powers of
the national Government could not be
set down in explicit words, as that would
mean intolerable detail.” He quoted the
Federal powers to conquer territory and
its “resulting powers” of administering
that territory, though the Constitution
said nothing about it. He thus .initiated
the doctrine of “implied” or “resulting”
powers, which has grown over the years
as occasion has arisen.
In 1941 a law was passed under which
the U.S. President might lend, lease, sell
or give away war-material to Britain,
though there was no direct power under
the Constitution to do so. It was done
under the Constitutional authority of
Congress to provide for the common
defence and welfare of the U.S.A.
This doctrine of “implied” or “result-
ing” powers will grow here in Australia
as time goes on and the need arises. Wire-
less-licences are only one instance. —
—J.A.J.H, (Q.).
Road and Rail
“R.H.G.’s” case for road-transport (B.
28 /11 / ’56) might have looked better if
he hadn’t mentioned figures.
He suggests that it is easier to move
1500 tons by road than by rail. Say the
distance is 400 miles, then simple calcula-
tion shows that, with “R.H.G.’s” 10
motor-trucks, the distance covered by
each truck carrying 15 tons is 7600 miles
—or a total of 76,000 miles for the fleet.
A train could haul the 1500 tons in one
400-mile trip.
If, on their nine round-trips and one
forward-trip, the motor-trucks could
average 15 miles an hour (including
loading, unloading, drivers’ rests, servic-
ing, etc.), then the time taken would be
something like 500 hours, or about 21
says. A goods-train can travel the
distance in a day-and-a-half at the out-
side, leaving about 19 days for assembling
and unloading.
The distance travelled per ton hauled
works out at a little over a quarter-mile
in the case of the railways as against
about 50£ miles for the road-transport.
Tons-per-mile figures are equally
illuminating and staggering.
Irrespective of the cost in £ s. d., it is
this basic inefficiency of road-transport
which the country cannot stand. In this
instance, road-transport is out of its field
and would be far better in its proper role
of distributing the goods from the
terminal after the railways have made
the haul.
An actual Westralian case to compare
with the foregoing example was the shift
of Anna Plains cattle from Port Hedland
to Midland Junction. This involved
moving 3000 cattle 620 miles from Port
Hedland to Meekatharra by road-trains,
and then a further move by rail of 600
miles to Midland Junction. The four
road-trains used motored a total distance
of 76,000 miles to load the cattle into
120 bogey rail-cars —about two train-
loads if the loading could have been done
"lt’s all done with mirrors !”
quickly enough and the cattle were con-
tinuously available. The railway landed
the cattle in excellent order.— Jalna
(N.S.W.).
An Addled Report
The Victorian Egg Board’s report for
1955-56 makes curious reading for the
housewife.
She will learn that, although board
eggs reached 6s. 3d. a dozen, the board
lost £4065 on the year, as against a profit
of £120,311 for the previous year. The
board attributes this setback to a decline
from £226,641 to £121,477 in income
from local sales—a sufficiently alarming
drop, one might think, to set the board
pondering on whether its policy of subsi-
dising export-sales at the local consumers’
expense is a sound one.
Not a bit of it ! The report dismisses
as ‘.‘humbug” and “sheer nonsense” sug-
gestions that eggs exported at a loss
should be placed on the local market at
reduced prices or put in cool-store to
meet winter shortages. Neither proposal,
it states, is practicable or economical—
meaning that consumers can expect to
pay 6d. each or more for eggs next winter.
“All the evidence,” the report continues,
“indicates the wisdom of spending money
to encourage English housewives to use
Australian eggs.” Whose money is being
so spent, and by what authority, are
employing the different units to handle
day and night loading-densities.
Yes, the Government’s policy is
progressively to bring all city and
suburban transport under one authority—
and not a single private operator has
objected. Public opinion is that they will
be only too glad to hand their fleets over,
because, to keep going, they must increase
fares at least twice a year. That means
more and more travellers will turn to
private cars.
Before this competition became serious,
private buses were given a franchise to
serve routes they knew were “safe,” the
opening-up of scattered areas being left
to the Government. Lately, when a
couple of bus-lines found they could not
pay, it was the Government which took
over to serve the needs of travellers who
had relied for transport on the insolvent
lines.
Commuter transport will always be
needed for those who do not use or own
cars, but with ever-rising costs in .labor,
fuel and maintenance the point is rapidly
approaching when private bus-lines will
not be able to pay a dividend. Will the
owners still serve the public by running at
a loss?
In a few years’ time fleets of .worn-out
buses will be willingly handed over to the
Government. Patrons will grizzle at fares,
and the community Will grumble at
paying taxes to meet annual deficits, but
questions that are not discussed, but
the report claims that “the large majorit
of producers” supported orderly market
ing and the board, and that “orderl
marketing had strengthened poultry
farming economy.”
The final remark quoted puts the whol
thing in an eggshell—“orderly market
ing,” as interpreted by the Victorian Egg
Board, merely means marketing in the
interests of producers. As far as eggs are
concerned, housewives would be no
worse off if the board, its “floors,” its
inspectors, its “orderly marketing”’ and
all the rest were abolished overnight.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
Perth Transport
Agreed that Perth transport is not
wholly State-owned (B. 14/11/’56), but
my par. concerned that portion operated
by the Government and its method of
I very few will realise that, to show
profit, a bus-ride would have to cost as
much as a taxi-trip.—C. A. L. (W.A.).
“Comprehensive Poliey ,,
Until lately I believed that after I paid
the premium my car was “comprehen-
sively” insured against accidental damage.
Now I’m not so sure.
When a friend’s car was extensively
damaged in a collision the insurance-
company assessor made his report and
billed my friend with one-third the cost
of a new radiator core—in addition, of
course, to the first £lO of the total cost.
Querying the first part, he was told that
fie assessor considered the radiator to
laye exhausted one-third of its “life,” and
fie company would therefore not be pay-
ng that proportion of the replacement-
ost. Moreover, it transpires, a refusal
o pay would not affect the company but
he garage making the repairs—the
mount is simply deducted from the
epairman’s quotation and it is up to him
a recover the balance from the owner.
The point is: why not extend the com-
any’s reasoning to its logical conclusion
nd charge pro rata for new ducoing, new
olts and nuts, and so forth —any item
ivolved must surely have expended a
roportion of its usefulness. Obviously,
le only way of replacing non-repairable
umponents is by fitting new ones. You
m’t fit a one-third worn-out radiator or
half-worn-out battery.
People pay high, premiums year after
sar and surely it’s fair enough for a
Dinpany to pay full replacement-costs of
7 components damaged in an accident.
-Kemberry (A.C.T.).
The “Ruined City”
Until I read about it in The Bulletin
(26/9/’56 and 28/11/’56) I had not so
much as heard of the “Ruined City” of
the Northern Territory.
There are, too, other spots in Australia
of such scenic wonder. One area is in
Central Australia —“Almost in the exact
centre of Australia,” says C. F. Laseron
in The Face of Australia (1953), “is a
great tract of country, about 300 miles
from east to west and about the same
distance from north to south, which for
scenic grandeur must rank as one of the
wonders of the world.”
This area contains the Macdonnell and
Musgrave Ranges and the remarkable
Three Great Tors (Ayers Rock, Mt. Olga
and Mt. Connor).
Mt. Olga, continues Laseron, must be
one of the strangest mountains in the
world. “It is not one peak, but a number
of enormous monoliths arranged roughly
in a circle. They rise straight from the
plain, the largest 1500 ft. in height, each
with a rounded summit and with smooth,
jointless and almost sheer sides. Although
quite close together they are separated by
narrow, vertical chasms. Within the
chasms is another w0r1d....”
The other two also have their varied
attractions. Ayers Rock, for instance, is
like Mt. Olga in many respects, though
it is only one huge monolith. Six miles
round, it contains shady recesses filled
with profuse plant-life.
I read somewhere once that the
Americans would have made a great
tourist-attraction out of Ayers Rock—as
Keith Young suggested in The Bulletin
that they would have of the Ruined City.
But why only the Americans? Surely
it is not beyond our means and ingenuity
to popularise such spots, which could,
perhaps, become important dollar-eamers.
Air-travel could make them much less
inaccessible than they are, without
robbing them of any of their charms.—
Kros (S.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 413
Acrqss
I—Buttons1 —Buttons blushing because of an
untrue description of Sir Earle ;
you’re looking at one. (3, 4)
s—Glances go towards this bathing
beauty’s attribute? (4, 3)
8 — The father of Diana blew his
top when insultingly belittled.
n a°)
9 Peck with this boy who isn’t
named Gregory ; but act before
its passage account. (4)
11 — Italian doctor leaves the drum
boy with an Irish name. (5)
12— N.S.W. lied furtively to cheat. (7)
13— Pulling to the pinion. (6)
15 —Ten which have perished rubber.
(5)
19— Sydney college bed in a steamer.
(5)
20— Pop can go to a boy and a girl
with an encrustation on old sculp-
ture. (6)
24 Fluky fortune to the present
capital of the Kings of Oudh.
„ (7)
25 Swallow one cocktail. (7)
27 Show up the little business
brought to me. (4)
28— X-shaped piece sown into worn
material to mend the ill-natured
person. (10)
29 — Americans look for a negative
reversal. (7)
30 — Lindwall canonised Edward, but
deviated from the straight and
narrow. (7)
Dqwn
1 — Defences about deficiencies in
certainty. (8)
2 Polish delivery from an area of
eroded farmland. (4-4)
3 A floor-covering put on one
famous Italian fiddle-maker. (5)
4 Chat with her for the woman
who runs the castle, (6)
5 Farm hen’s could hatch out a
famous girls’ school in .N.S.W.
(8)
6 Lord’s den darts artlessly. (6)
7 Kitchen oraft. (6)
10 —Entertainment available from the
iceman. (6)
14—No money is guilty. (6)
16 — Racecourse officials orphaned
paste protegees. (8)
17 — Cabinet acquaintance of Meggs is
a football score. (8)
18 — The vehicle I cast off has dis-
appeared. (8)
21 — Brave piano with the fortunate
pick, but why? (6)
22 — Tradesman came in disreputably.
(6)
23 —Diverts an article on Thalia,
Terpsichore, etc. (6)
26 —He can lasso an Australian river.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 412


V
FOR fl
Cm
/Hi
AND/MANY HAPPY RETURNS
ML me YMP ROMO
II
T#l
ON
I
i
w
\
1 SOUTHPORT
m
M
\,.-
/ / /
fv, * <
SURFERS’ PARADISE
a*,!!
■WWdWMtW'
OH BOY » 7
WHAT SUNSHINE
\ V
I > :
D^-
:■■' ■■ .. ■ ■■; ;■■ \ ■ ■■,
-am
ISMoefar!;
1) ,
/I'M STAKING \
MY CLAIM NQY/M^§^s' V , "X / ->-HV , j
."V
{ 'y
.
:m
C*> J
fiALM
Mach
m
SSi
•t.' *;-'*;•/'• ->; _
mm
SO HANDY
v . •■>
TO THE BEACH \ / j
12
*^"v.'•'••■’
■
m?
■jot*3SS%\\
HOUS£S
M
\x
\
fwTTwcT}
l/s Sonny J
» Jgfs?
ifSjCy’
-A* \
? -v
S 5
:^Tf7c
Clht
VS
V
rff 1
/r’r wise to
i
m
BUY ON THESE}9
Y
v 2
' A X *>|
EASY TERMS/
- -y#ir
f"s£
4* a**V
H
WTPHTTy
r OU H
FREEHOLD TITLE
"PALM BEACH”Estate
Here is a golden opportunity to buy a holiday home site
within 7 miles of fabulous Surfers’ Paradise at a price to
suit eyery pocket.
FULL PRICES RANGE FROM
£3OO A BLOCK
Deposits from only £75
With Balance Over 3 Years
INTEREST FREE
DISCOUNT FOR CASH
The beautiful ocean beach, shops, service
station and hotel are within 3 minutes walk of
"Palm Beach" Estate.
• All roads are tar sealed.
• Coolangatta Airport is only 4 miles from the Estate.
• Palm Beach Township has town water, electricity and
telephone services—these will be available to the Estate
as development warrants.
• Resident Manager on the Estate.
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED
Cnr. Pacific Highway and Luzon Parade, Palm Beach,
Queensland. Tele. Burleigh Heads 478
Please mail me, without obligation, further particulars of
“Palm Beach” Estate.
Name
Address
Telephone No (block letters, please)
Managing and Selling Agents
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED
98 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BWB4OI
AFTER HOURS TELEPHONE FM 5754 OR XY 2543
Australia's Leader in Real Estate
