

t
sepp e^
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
“MARKS IN THE SKY”-mge 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3968
Wednesday, February 29, 1956
Price 9cl.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 287: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
PLAS NEWYDD, FAMOUS HOME OF “THE LADIES OF LANGOLLEN"
THE Vale of Llangollen in North Wales has always been renowned for the
beauty of its scenery. Its praises have been sung in poetry and prose
which describes its mountains and meadowlands, its wooded slopes through
which winds the River Dee, where salmon are still caught by fishermen from
their ancient coracles. .
There, beside the river, stands the small town of Llangollen, which, in
recent years, has become famous for its annual International Musical
Eisteddfod. An eisteddfod is a Welsh festival of music and poetry, over a
thousand years old. The International, however, is a new and exclusively
musical development of this tradition, and it was first held at Llangollen in
1947. With each succeeding year the festival grows in popularity and is
attended by choirs and dancers from some thirty different countries. Although
the competitors speak many languages and dialects, they all share with the
Welsh people their love of music—a language common to all countries. The
audience is accommodated in a large marquee which holds 10,000 people. In
1951 the festival was attended by 130,000 people and each year the numbers
grow.
One of the famous sights of Llangollen is Plas Newydd, a picturesque
black-and-white timbered building situated within a few minutes walk of the
centre of the town. For over fifty years, from 1780 to 1831, it was the home
of the “Ladies of Llangollen.” The ladies were the Honorable Sarah Pon-
sonbv and Lady Eleanor Butler —members of two well-known Irish families ot
that name. They settled at Plas Newydd with the professed intention of
devoting their lives “to friendship, celibacy and the knitting of blue stockings.’
They were noted for their peculiarities of dress, for their generosity and for the
number of celebrated persons whom they entertained from time to time.
Mention of this house appears in a sonnet by Wordsworth. It was the scene
of a novel by Sir Walter Scott. Among other distinguished guests at Plas
Newydd were the Duke of Wellington, Madame de Genlis and Daniel
O’Connell Each visitor, on a second visit, was expected to bring a present
of carved’oak, and although the greater part of the ladies’ collection was
dispersed in 1832, some of this ornate woodwork, presented by visiting
celebrities, still remains.


SK, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtaiD
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
TWO NEW ZEALANDERS
A restrained blurb is a very good
thing and conduces much to the dignity
of both publisher and author; but the
Caxton Press is really a little too
restrained in having no blurb at all
for J, R. Hervey’s She Was My Spring
and Paul Henderson’s Unwilling
Pilgrim.
The unkindness to the great majority
of reviewers, who write their notices
solely on the blurb, and will now have
to read the books, is extreme; and the
present reviewer, while unwilling to
confess ever sinking as low as that,
would at least like to know whether
Mr. Henderson is a young poet of 18
or an old gentleman of 80 or, as one
suspects, something reasonably youth-
ful in between.
If he is 18, the world lies before him:
his book brims with promise. If he is
80, it is time he learned better: for his
alliterative and internal-rhyming style
of verse, learned from old-English
through Hopkins, has some very naive
patches of sibilants and gutturals:—
Clouds bring sweet rain. When sea
winds have warped us,
When salt snows eyebrows and
scourges skin,
Wash clean. Then pores drink
deeply as parched earth
That gaping, gasps in the wretched
eye of the farmer.
Mr. Henderson writes about moun-
tains and gardens and, influenced by
M. H. Holcroft’s meditations and
Allen Curnow’s poetry, much about
islands, navigators and landfalls. He
has a strong response to weather and
landscape, also some of the urban
aspects of contemporary New Zealand
life; he does much to take New
Zealand poetry into more intimate
relationship with its habitat by his use
of what J. C. Powys called “the
thaumaturgic reverberation of place-
names” —Mr. Henderson reverberates
with Wellington, Petone, Oamaru,
Ruapehu, the Chateau Tongariro; and
his thought as well as his style (when
the bumps have been smoothed into
solidity) is shrewd, nuggety and com-
pact:—
A hill you may say is a hill; take a
hill,
Or a group of them forming an
island,
Range, or peninsula. Here’s the
benign
Slope, thrust of deceptive hand
Green-gloved over the strong racked
bones
Of earth assaulting sky. Follow the
up,
The flow, the final burst in the sun ;
Measure the cone ; a hill, you per-
ceive, is a hill.
A man you may say is a man ; but
when
He’s extended himself to the hill,
included
The spur and the curve in the light
of his
Knowing how this was formed;
pondered if
Time, place, thought and strewn
heaven
Matter a tinker’s curse ; noticed the
blue
Haze hills absorb from the sea,
clouds
Cumbering the island; known the
slight
Fear of far hills, and the sweet
solace
Of these, being home; then we
consider again
Well, what is a hill? Is it a hill,
Or a hill through the eyes of one
human?
Mr. Hervey,. of course, needs no
blurb to introduce him. His “Moun-
taineer in the present volume—an
interesting comparison in its smooth,
liturgical style with an almost identi-
cal, but jerky poem by Mr. Henderson
—was first published in “The Bulletin,”
and his earlier books have been re-
viewed here. His assured and flowing
verse (which perhaps needs a more
liberal allowance of rhyme to fix it
firmly in the mind) is employed here on
a few stray landscape-poems, two of
the short character-sketches he does so
well and an excellent pioneering-ode
for the Christchurch centenary, but
chiefly on a moving set of poems
commemorating, in grief and fortitude,
the death of his wife: —
Beggar the heart, but find a wilder-
ness
Where storms have liberty and trees
are torn,
And where the earth is sour, guilty
of thorn,
A place to match its new and ragged
dress:
Let no path lead, nor wandering song
caress,
For one who knows no manner but
to mourn,
A smiling world is buried in his
scorn,
Who bears a forest grief, no sun to
bless.
The Caxton Press has long been
known for the excellence of its crafts-
manship in book-production. Both
these volumes are beautifully made.
Convict-hero
The newest quarrier in the Mac-
quarie quarry is Alfred E. Couchman,
who has written a romantic novel
about those stirring times, Fair Field,
No Favor (Ure Smith).
Mr. Couchman has at least one of
the necessary qualities of the romantic
novelist: he is able to ravel the skein
of his story so inextricably that all the
characters interact upon one another;
and this provides a series of frequent
knots to keep up the interest.
The son of one good family is
unjustly transported for poaching. His
family, with the family of his girl-
friend, come out to settle in N. S.
Wales. In Australia, the hero is
assigned to a settler whose daughter
falls in love with him. He attacks an
officer, who has him lashed. The
officer falls heavily in love with the
hero’s sister; etc. . . .
Over it all presides the sturdy con-
vict-hating Rev. Samuel Marsden, and
it says maybe enough for the hero’s
sufferings that they softened even that
heart of stone—it is a moment such as
that noted by Lytton Strachey, when
the ruthless Frederick the Great, play-
ing the flute for Voltaire, drew a tear
from the author of “Candide.”
In fact, merely by presenting the
scenes, Mr. Couchman does bring home
to the reader the situation of the
pardoned convict meeting supercilious
officers and jeering settlers. What clear
and simple English, and a straight-
forward appraisement of human
nature, can do, Mr. Couchman does,
but he rests there. The insight into
wild and twisted natures, the flair for
atmospheres and the gift of swift and
brilliant movement that make the born
costume-novelist will not be found
here.
Flowers by Sherman
In the general tenor of his foreword
to The Flower Paintings of Albert
Sherman (Angus and Robertson), Mr.
Howard Ashton seems to be fighting
the good fight for this very capable
painter on the wrong battleground.
Perhaps it is advisable—and cer-
tainly it is tempting—in this age of
controversy to defend the right of a
painter to paint what he sees and, in
passing, to attack abstraction and
Picasso. But surely it is still accepted
by all but the most fanatical abstrac-
tionists that flowers in a flower-
painting should look like flowers.
Mr. Ashton might more profitably
have brought his guns to bear on the
many contemporary painters who, to
get away from the Dutch tradition and
to avoid the charge of academism, do
their best to make their flowerpieces
ugly instead of beautiful, as Mr.
Sherman tries to paint them. But the
only question of any real importance
to be decided, once it is understood
that Mr. Sherman is unimpeachably
correct in his aims, is to what extent he
fulfils them. Are his flowers flowers?
Are they beautiful?
Mr. Ashton does, of course, touch
on this. Not everyone—certainly not the
other flower-painters of the day-will
agree that Mr. Sherman is “Australia’s
foremost painter of flowers.” With
their rather oily texture, their gilded
tabletops and round-bellied rococo
vases of brass or porcelain his paintings
tend to be lush. They reflect an
essentially Victorian taste, by no means
without connoisseurship, for the heavy,
the dark and the ornate.
On the other hand, anyone who has
seen this book or who has for years
admired Mr. Sherman’s flowerpieces at
the Royal Art Society exhibitions in
Sydney must grant him, both for his
persistence and his achievements in
this field, a very high place among
Australian flower-painters—for that
matter his work is quite as impressive
as most of what you see at the Royal
Academy in London—and it is easy to
agree with Mr. Ashton as to the tonal
and formal observation, harmonious
color, skilful arrangement and general
craftsmanship of these “bowls of
wattle-blossom, of red roses, of orange
marigolds, of zinnias ranging from the
brightest of scarlets, orange, yellow
and purple-red.” It is also interest-
ing to learn that Mr. Sherman, born in
Truro, Cornwall, is a skilled worker in
wood, brass, copper, silver and enamel
and that his house at Earlwood, Sydney,
has an Bft. clock with carved bronze
dial, of his own making.
The book, with 18 color-plates, is
itself a handsome piece of craftsman-
ship. The edition is limited to 1000
copies.
" Mademoiselle"
For people to know exactly who was
meant by no other name than “Miss”
must surely mean that a woman is the
most uncommon holder of a common
title; and this was the title of Anne-
Marie-Louise d’Qrleans, Duchess de
Montpensier, which is given to her
biography, La Grande Mademoiselle,
by Francis Steegmuller (Hamish Hamil-
ton). She was the daughter of the
brother of Louis XIII of France; for
which reason her father was
“Monsieur” and she “Mademoiselle”
to the whole French nation.
Her father, Gaston d’Orleans, spent
his life intriguing against Richelieu and
his successor, Mazarin. His method was
to arrange an insurrection, fail, and
then betray his followers. They would
be tortured and lopped; and then, as
though it were only a game of chess,
Monsieur would be received back into
the family and public affairs.
In those days, when women were
unresisting pieces of the political chess-
board, Mademoiselle—one of the
richest women in the world because of
her Bourbon mother, and one of the
most powerful because of her Bourbon
father and of her being, in her child-
hood, second to the French throne—
had a mind of her own. She did what
she wanted to —but it was always for
the worst.
Early in life she worshipped her
father and rejoiced in his intrigues.
During his thickest plot against
Mazarin, when he was not anxious to
put himself in danger in Orleans, she
had herself practically blown into the
city, to organise and control the town;
and when the King was marching on
Paris, and her father took to his bed,
she succored the wounded from
Conde’s force fighting outside the city
walls, and on the battlements of the
Bastille had the cannon, meant to con-
trol an insurgent city, turned against
the army of the King himself . . .
This, the King thought, was not
chess—not cricket; and Mademoiselle
and Monsieur were exiled to country
estates; and for years, now thoroughly
awake to her father, she fought
his unprincipled endeavors to secure
her immense fortune—it makes a story
in itself.
When the Queen increased
Mademoiselle’s distance from the
throne by giving birth to the future
Louis XIV, Mademoiselle, who had
refused a Spanish marriage and the
powerful pleading of the future Charles
ll’s mother, that would have made her
Queen of England, and a State-
marriage with the degenerately-vicious
King of Portugal, might have become
Queen of France by marrying the
young Louis XIV himself. She had
grown up with him; she was very fond
of him; but she did not believe that
the wily Mazarin was sincere in offer-
ing her the marriage.
Then, in her forties, she fell in love
with a Gascon, Comte de Lauzun, a
soldier and a member of the new King’s
elite corps. Mr. Steegmuller has very
adroitly taken from her memoirs her
story of her sudden amazement at find-
ing that she was in love with a man,
for her, little better than a commoner;
then of her long-drawn-out and fre-
quently-interrupted proposals to him;
she advancing hypothetical cases; he
cautiously refusing to see a personal
application; she finally deciding to
write the name of the man she loved
on a piece of paper, and then fearing
to give it to him; he manifesting diplo-
matic amaze and disbelief that it
should be he . . .
Then she had to break the matter to
Louis XIV, who at this time had been
trying to marry her to Portugal. Finally,
because of his regard for her, the King
consented. Had she married immedi-
ately all would have been well. She
held out for a State wedding. The
Queen and her second son pointed out
that the rest of Mademoiselle’s money
would be married out of the Royal
family; the people, seeing in Royalty
their only protection from the
aristocracy, murmured against a
marriage of Royalty into the class of
the nobles, and the King withdrew his
approval.
Lauzun at this point acted well to-
wards Mademoiselle, encouraging her
to accept the King’s decision with good
grace, and returning the gifts and
honors with which she had endowed
him; but he deliberately provoked his
enemies at the Court, and worried
Madame de Montespan, whom he had
known before her Royal lover, with
his knowledge of her secrets. Louis
had d’Artagnan take him off to a remote
prison.
Mademoiselle’s problem now was to
get her iover out of jail; and Madame
de Montespan saw in this predicament
a chance to endow her illegitimate son
by the King. Mademoiselle was in-
duced—with no promises—to give huge
estates to the boy; and ultimately, and
gradually, after a warning that there
must be no marriage, Lauzun was
enlarged.
But, unpredictable and mercurial
before, Lauzun was even less reliable
now; making love to other women,
deliberately offensive at Court, casual,
critical and ungrateful with Mademoi-
selle. As she had fallen in love, she
fell out; she dismissed him completely
with a few strokes of her caustic wit,
and, having nothing else to fill her life,
retired to write her memoirs.
Mr. Steegmuller, who made so fine
a selection a few years ago of the letters
of Flaubert, has told this story-of-
many-stories with grace, with penetra-
tion and concision.
Reviewed Briefly
Darling Clementine: Dorothy Eden
(Macdonald). With the coming of an
ex-air-hostess to be a kind of nurse-
governess, the pilot’s family is dis-
rupted. His wife is crippled after a
fall from a horse that has been deliber-
ately frightened; she and her children
hear threatening voices in their rooms
at night; a relative living with them is
blackmailed over a hit-run accident;
and the ex-air-hostess writes curious
letters to an unnamed correspondent
—one of those evil-smog novels, which
have been done better, but is quite
readable.
* # * *
This Is Tomorrow: Kathleen Foyle
(Davies). A determined effort to be
sweetly and charmingly English in spite
of everything—notably the divorce that
the principal heroine is sustaining from
her husband, who got away selling
cars in America; he comes back with
his American wife-to-be, who wants
the two boys as well. In the Devon-
shire countryside the brave little Eng-
lish Patient Grissel meets a better man,
also the vicar and his family and Ann
and Nicholas, two young lovers who
are having a delightful A. A. Milne
misunderstanding and reconciliation.
* * * *
I Can Cope: Michael Cronin
(Museum). Mr. Cronin’s hero begins
by bopping a girl in a night-club. Then
a beautiful spy calls upon him, and his
laboratory is burgled for the plans of
his TV under-water focus-gear— the
usual recipe, not very well cooked.


m
rmf ''
- mu m§ pmi :
*< <
K ■■.;•<
iilflf
838 I
11
«
-
Genuine Hide jacket
In handy three-quarter length
For the man who wants the best a
quality genuine leather Safari Jacket fully
lined with warm lambswool for extra
warmth. This Jacket is styled for comfort
and lasting wear and is ideal for the man on
the land, motor-bike and truck drivers,
etc., who need a waterproof jacket.
Available in dark tan shade, in sizes
4 to 9. Priced at £l7/17/-.
Leather Gauntlets
Special top-grain hide Driving Gauntlets in
Nigger Brown leather, with adjustable wrist
strap. Sizes: 8 inch to 10-| inch. Fleecy lined,
with fur cuff, 51/-; fully fur lined, 52/6.
Leather Laps
Men’s quality Leather Caps—well made from
grained hide. They have an unbreakable peak
(for longer wear), and are priced at 19/11 each.
All Leather Trousers
F&r hard-worhing men
These sblid leather trousers'are made tough for tough work.
They will stand years and years of the worst treatment
under all conditions. The hide is highly yielding which
ensures utmost comfort. You are assured of a
good fit. Sizes range from 4 to 8.
Reasonably priced at only £6/ 19/6 pair.
Men’s Wear, Ground Floor, George Street. 80951
mmmm.
11l
(Kssaasssart
'
.
■
if
m
am
SAW
mm
mmmm
m
m
:
w
:■ : £
pp
:::
Rushed
ackets
In genuine leather
Double-breasted genuine hide Leather
Overcoats, designed for hard wear and will
give complete protection in any weather
conditions. These coats are lined throughout
in the finest quality linings, and are in a
practical dark tan shade. Sizes to fit everyone
—ranging from 4 to 8. Price is £13/13/-.
Leather Lumber Jackets made from genuine
hide and lined throughout with quality
linings. Available in dark tan shade.
Sizes range from 4 to 8. Priced at £9/19/6.
I'TRbTH !N AOVERTISiNiG7 ;
■■


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3968
Wednesday, February 29, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CAHILL v. PLAYFORD
NEXT Saturday the electors of two States, New
South Wales and South Australia, will go to the
polls. The Governments led by Mr. Cahill and
Mr. Playford have two things in common; they
have both been in power for a long time and they
both wish to remain in power. As a result of this
there is a basic similarity in their approach to the
problem of persuading the electors to return them.
They are, in effect, asking to be judged on their
record. There is nothing surprising in that. After
a Government has been in power for a long time
it can scarcely produce for election purposes a
brand-new bundle of promises. To do so invites
the rude question, “Why haven’t you done all this
already?” Present promises have to be weighed
against past performances.
Both Premiers are making the claim that their
States are prosperous, and, not unnaturally, are
taking to themselves some credit for that condi-
tion. The justness of the second claim does not
necessarily follow as a corollary of the first. It
is not sufficient to prove that prosperity exists; the
Premiers must produce evidence to show that their
Administration contributed to it.
Examine first Mr. Cahill’s case. The N. S.
Wales Premier says, by advertisement: —
Under Labor government, this State is pros-
perous. The average man and woman have better
wages and conditions than ever before. Business
is good. More and more capital is being invested
in New South Wales.
That statement can’t be disputed. By alLoutward
signs N.S.W. is prosperous. There is full employ-
ment, and men and women are receiving higher
wages than ever before, under easier conditions
than ever before. Retail-trade figures are at high
levels. Capital-expansion is going on—the most
notable examples being the extensions to the steel-
works at Port Kembla, the oil-refinery at Kurnell
and the British Motor Corporation’s plant at
Victoria Park.
But omit the word “Labor” and “New South
Wales” from the Cahill statement and it could apply
to every State in the Commonwealth, whether under
“Labor” or Liberal rule. For the past 10 years
all Australia has been enjoying prosperity. Wages
are high and conditions good all over the Com-
monwealth. All States have advanced industrially,
and overseas capital is still coming into the country.
For this state of affairs all Governments have
sought to claim credit, but the truth is that general
prosperity has cut across State boundaries and
political boundaries alike and has obviously
occurred independently of Government policy and
in some cases in spite of it. The basic causes of -this
prosperity have been a succession of bountiful
seasons and high world-prices for our primary
products. These may not be the whole story, but
without them there’d be little story to tell.
Mr. Cahill has been Premier of N.S.W. since
1952 and a senior Minister in “Labor” Administra-
tions since 1941. The State over which he presides
holds more than a third of the population of Aus-
tralia. It produces more wool than any other two
States combined; more wheat than any other State.
On the score of general prosperity it should there-
fore have benefited more from the post-war boom
in export-prices than the rest of Australia. More-
over, since it possesses the lion’s share of the coal
resources of the Commonwealth, produces the entire
steel output and has long been the most heavily
industrialised State, it should have been the best-
equipped to reap the secondary benefit from that
prosperity.
But results do not show that this has happened.
On the contrary, by most of the measuring-sticks
that can be applied, N.S.W. has lagged behind the
rest of Australia in development since the war.
As South Australia is the other State putting
its Government up for judgment on March 3, it is
fair to make a comparison between the two States.
South Australia is not richly endowed with natural
resources. Its only workable deposit of coal is
hundreds of miles from Adelaide and of inferior
quality. Before the war the State had very little
in the way of secondary-industries, apart from the
lead-smelters at Port Pirie and motor-body works
near Adelaide. The picture today is very different.
Between 1948 and 1955 the population of Aus-
tralia increased by 20 per cent. In the same period
that of N.S.W. increased by 16 per cent., while
South Australia’s population grew by 25 per cent.
Thus the increase in Cahill’s State was below the
general average for the Commonwealth, in Play-
ford’s above it. The same pattern is observed in
other fields. During the period the number of
factory-employees in Australia rose by 13 per cent.;
in New South Wales, 9 per cent.; in South Aus-
tralia, 17 per cent. The retail-trade employees’
figures were Australia, 7 per cent.; New South
Wales, 3 per cent.; South Australia, 8 per cent.
Employment-figures are one index of relative
prosperity. Savings-bank figures are another. At
December 31 last savings-bank deposits per head
in the Commonwealth averaged £llB. In New
South Wales the average was £104; in South Aus-
tralia, £l6l. These figures were not prepared by
politicians, but by the Commonwealth Statistician.
They indicate that Premier Playford was justified
in saying in his policy-speech:—
During the term of my Government, produc-
tion per head of the population in this State has
risen from the lowest in Australia to the highest.
By every tangible measure of prosperity South
Australians now appear to be more prosperous
than the people of any other State South
Australians have one house to every 3.7 persons,
the best figures for any Australian State, and, I
believe, better than any other country in the
world except New Zealand In South Australia
the average price of domestic electricity has risen!
by only 30 per cent, since 1948, but in N.S.W.
and Victoria it has risen 85 per cent.
Alongside Playford’s solid claim to have helped
his State to prosperity, Cahill’s case seems weak
indeed. Ahd that is comparing the two regimes
purely on relative prosperity.
There are other points of contrast. The breath
of scandal has never touched a Playford Minister.
The same, unfortunately, can’t be said in N.S.W.
No one can produce an Adelaide list of “jobs for
the boys”; the Sydney one is as long as Cahill’s
schedule of unfinished works. Playford has never
found it necessary to enact a Press Gag Act to
stifle talk of City Council graft; his City Council
(the oldest in Australia) is still a model of civic
responsibility, not merely a roneoed copy of the
Trades and Labor Council.
In short, the Playford Government has given
South Australia years of sound, honest government
—the kind of government that has been almost
forgotten in N.S.W.; the kind of government which
Morton and Bruxner hope to bring back. Now
very much on the defensive, Cahill is appealing to
the electors not to exchange the substance for the
shadow. He’s mixing his terms. What he calls
substance is merely the reflection of general pros-
perity. By ending his regime the electors have a
chance of securing real prosperity instead of its
mirror-image.
Cold-war Conquest
THE Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party
of the U.S.S.R. has had the usual satisfactory
propaganda results for Moscow. Only scraps are
picked out of the interminable debates and reports
—those scraps which can be turned to the uses of
sensationalism: “Moscow Abandons Stalinism”;
“Khrushchev Says Capitalism and Communism Can
Live Together”; “War Between Capitalism and
Communism Not Inevitable.”
It is all a softening-up process directed against
the West, which, while it does not deceive Gov-
ernments,' does lull into security a large propor-
tion of newspaper-readers, anxious for enduring
peace, for the safety of sons, and for the avoidance
of the holocausts of 1914 and 1939.
The press must bear a heavy responsibility for
failing properly to analyse what is going on. The
linkage of Communist strikes with the cold-
war position is never highlighted. One might have
felt that the -recent wharfies’ strike was merely
a piece of spontaneous combustion to be settled by
the soothing influence of Mr. Harold Holt. The
Australian public was not told that a similar strike
had been timed to blow-up in Glasgow simul-
taneously and that it lasted almost the same length
of time. Nor was it told of the approving chorus
of Communist telegrams from all over the world.
In foreign affairs, as in industry, there is the
same lack of newspaper analysis and explanation
of what is going forward, of the rapid advance of
Communism like a great cloud moving ever south-
ward—over South Asia, Africa, Indonesia, Aus-
tralia. Not vainly did the Soviet leaders boast that
they now believed it possible to capture the
“imperialist” countries without war.
They have turned the Arab countries towards
Russia, and are fast making them dependent on
Russian arms and industrial equipment.
In every centre where there is unrest in Africa
there will be found Russian agents at the core.
They have established a great propaganda-centre
in Libya; South Africa, like Australia, has become
aware that the Soviet diplomatic centres have been
all along treason- and espionage-agencies.
Across southern Asia the same sort of disturbed
conditions prevail. Mr. Casey, in the House of
Representatives, has pointed out the hair-trigger
conditions prevailing in the Far East, where
the U.S.S.R. and its agents are doing their best to
fan the flames of war and where the granting of
self-government and independence to Malaya is
hailed as a first step to triumph for the guerrillas.
It is felt that when Malaya and Singapore lose their
adhesion to the United Kingdom the huge Chinese
population, which is equal to the Malay population,
will turn its eyes to Red China and open the way for
another move southward.
The denunciation of the Seato and Baghdad
pacts by Nehru is another blow to the West. He
is benefiting by the Colombo Plan. He professes
to be maintaining India as a unit within the British
Commonwealth. He adheres to a Western ideal—
ostensibly—but he objects to the nations of the
Pacific and Indian Ocean who would have to defend
India, if attacked, combining in a plan to protect
themselves (and India) from a threat which the
events of Korea and Vietnam show to be real!
More significant than anything else which has
happened in the past fortnight—or perhaps the past
year—are two events. One is that the Cominform
journal published in Bucharest has devoted a long
article this month to jubilation at the results of
the Indonesian elections —jubilation which will
have now increased with the knowledge that one
of the first acts of the newly-established Govern-
ment has been to break the union with the Nether-
lands finally and to sanction the setting-up of a
provisional absentee Government for West New
Guinea in deliberate challenge to the Dutch, Aus-
tralian and the United Nations viewpoint.
The other is that the Premier of Cambodia
has issued from Peking, jointly with Chou En-lai,
a communique expressing a desire for the resump-
tion and development of the “historical friendship
and close relations that have existed between China
and Cambodia for many centuries,” while the
Chinese official press quotes the visitor as con-
demning Seato and declaring that it “can only
bring us dishonor.” It is a striking illustration
of the manner in which the Australian public is
served* in the matter of foreign affairs by its daily
press that this piece of treachery, the more signifi-
cant because it happened at a moment when a
Cambodian military mission was in India, has been
mentioned by only some of the dailies.
It is cause for unease that the negotiation
between Peking and Cambodia ran contemporane-
ously with the development of a new “soft” line by
Chou En-lai, who is trying to woo the Chiang Kai-
shek Chinese in Formosa by inviting them to return
in safety, to “tour China” and see its conditions,
or to come permanently and "integrate themselves
with the new nation. To many of Chiang’s
followers who view the future as it appears from
Formosa, this must prove a big temptation,
especially if they still have relatives in Red China.
It might even, in time, prove too great a temptation
for Chiang Kai-shek’s son and potential successor,
who is Moscow-trained. That is a painful possi-
bility which the Seato allies must not altogether
exclude from their minds. And the Cambodian
agreement, the entente which has been established
between Russia and Burma, and apparently also
with India, will add to the temptations of the weaker
elements of the Formosan Army.
One noticeable fact about Communist propa-
ganda during the past month has been the double
objective which it exhibits as well as the double-
talk. The statements which have come out of
Moscow have stressed atomic warfare and have
been marked by the brutal intimidation inherent
in insistence on the overwhelming development in
hydrogen weapons which has taken place in the
“home of peace.”
It is strange and significant, however, that all
the actions of the Soviet bloc appear to aim at
securing the foothold for normal land-warfare of
the old-fashioned type when their present success-
ful run of political conquests ends. The wandering
of large submarines tells its own tale in the Pacific.
They are minelaying, long-distance types.
A close reading of the thesis issued from
Warsaw over signatures which include those of
a few marshals of the Red Army masquerading
as the representatives of “free” Eastern European
countries shows that their real immediate concern
is “the establishment of a zone in Europe in which
the strength of the armed forces would be defined
by special agreement.” It is clear that this “zone
of limitation and control of armaments” would
include Germany and would be achieved by the
withdrawal of Nato troops from Germany and
the limitation of West German defence to suit the
needs of Russia. The particular concern of the
Russians is that in this zone there should be no
atomic weapons, which seems to have point from
the fact that no atomic field-weapons have yet been
mentioned as being in use in Russia.
There can be no believing in the sincerity of
their European plan. It merely aims to destroy
defence in the approaches to Western Europe, and
is doubly important, since the arrangement would
allow them to concentrate militarily on Asia.
The international situation is worse than it
was, and the drive of the Communists, both west
in Europe and south along the Morocco-Philippines
Axis, is increasing in weight and pace.


JOBS
FOR FRIENDS
COMPULSORY
unionism
DOYLE
SCANDAL
TRANSPORT
FAILURE
GERRYMANDERED
ELECTIONS
LOCAL-
GOVERNMENT
SCANDALS
COMMUNISTI
ASSOCIATIONS
just us;
NOT JUSTICE
GREEN-BELT
RACKET
PRESS-GAG
SCANDAL
VOTE-BUYING
INFLATION
STANDING ON “LABOR’S” RECORD


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Danger to Federation
The entry of Menzies into the State
election-campaign in N. S. Wales is wel-
come and necessary, though it s a pity
that other Federal members haven t
followed him on a mass scale.
This is an election which shouldn’t be
fought on the parish-pump issues on
which Mr. Cahill mainly elects to fight.
The big issue this year is that of Com-
monwealth relations with the States, and
of whether Federation can survive if the
present wasteful and obstructive “Labor”
States policy is pursued much further.
The Federal Government’s reward for
adopting a financial attitude towards the
States which a lot of people think has
been unduly generous has been continual
carping and a tendency which Menzies
says can be more damaging to Federation
than almost anything —to blame the
Federal Government for all State failures
and shortcomings.
One of the most alarming features of
the situation is that Premiers like Cahill
and Gair, with their reiterated insistence
on the fact that theirs are sovereign
States and that the Commonwealth is
only a kind of collecting-agency, are
issuing a deliberate challenge to the
Federal system.
It is very significant that the com-
mittee of economists and businessmen
whom the Prime Minister has appointed
to review the economic condition of the
country includes no representatives of the
States. Members of the financial and
business community and the governor
of the Commonwealth Bank are in-
cluded. But it has no doubt been clear
that any State representatives from
N.S.W. or Queensland would give no
assistance, and would merely act as an
obstruction to the purpose of the com-
mittee. This fact seems to speak for
itself, as illustrating how much States
under “Labor” have become a political
backwater, unconstructive and predatory,
rich boarders duplicating work that the
Commonwealth or municipalities could
do better in many instances, but not
pulling their weight in the development of
the nation and its resources.
After the Ball
The Anthony Eden Government in the
U.K., which is so weak in some directions
that it is leaving the initiative on capital
punishment to a Leftist private member,
is showing a different front in the
economic situation.
It is almost an axiom that, save for
one or two Administrations, modern
British Governments, weak or strong,
have always tried to face economic facts.
But the two starry-eyed Administrations
—Ramsay McDonald’s and Attlee’s —
both left behind legacies of experiment
and a loosened-up system which the
country could not afford and for which it
later paid and is paying.
The Attlees —and more particularly
Aneurin Bevan —inculcated into young
British post-war minds the innocent be-
lief that if an elector wants something—
higher wages especially, shorter hours,
washing-machines, television-sets, motor-
cars—Heaven will find the boodle to pay
for them by grace of the Government.
The results are now coming home to
roost. Working-hours have gradually
tapered off. Standards of spending have
universally increased. Government
departments have not been behind-
hand. Meanwhile, the Contin-
ental nations have begun to get back
into their swing, with the advantage that
economic pressure has made their opera-
tives only too eager to work long hours
at a hard pace and for any wage they
can get, and that they have been able to
rebuild their factories from the ground up
on modern “flow” lines.
In the export trade they have been
cutting hard into British markets in the
past few months, while the U.K. fac-
tories have not been producing enough
for export at the right prices.
The restrictions imposed a few days ago
to check luxury production and spending
spoke for themselves, but the situation
has now been put into blunter language
by Harold Macmillan, Chancellor of the
Exchequer. Germany, the U.S.A. and
Japan are outpacing and underselling
Britain in the export market. While the
world’s trade is growing apace, the United
Kingdom’s is steadily shrinking. “Too
easy to sell at home, too hard to sell
abroard—all the result of too much
spending-power.”
Australia cannot escape some reactions
from Britain’s troubles. Our overseas
trade ties in with Britain so intimately
that a bump at the U.K. end is bound to
be felt at this end, too.
Doctor at the Till
The dogs have been barking that some
medical practitioners have been making
a racket of the pensioner medical service.
The letter from the president of the
N.S.W. branch of the 8.M.A., H. H.
Willis, to 4000-odd medicoes in N.S.W., is
a sharp reminder from a competent
authority that this sort of thing has gone
on for long enough.
The B.M.A. letter alleged some medical
men had:
Claimed fees from the Commonwealth
Government for treatments and services
which had never been given to the sick
pensioners named.
Falsified “visit-vouchers” signed by pen-
sioners so as to claim for fictitious visits.
Over-visited patients in order to pad
their accounts.
The first two are, of course, criminal;
and doubtless the law has remedies for
them. The third is, perhaps, the most
common, and is difficult to cure under
the present set-up.
Before the Commonwealth scheme
came into operation pensioners in capital
cities were mainly treated in the out-
patient departments of public hospitals ;
when they were treated by private prac-
titioners they were very often “Love-of-
God” cases. In these circumstances the
pensioner-patient was treated by the
public charity of hospitals or by the
private charity of individual doctors.
Now that pensioner-patients are no
longer a drain on the busy g.p.’s time,
but, in certain cases, a positive asset, the
number of pensioners attending out-
patient clinics has fallen, and. the total
of treatments has increased spectacularly.
There might seem a rough sort of justice
about this, since the doctor in the past
has spent his time and skill on such cases
for nothing, and at last is being paid for
it. But this applies more to the normal
run of practices than to the ones which
are now causing the B.M.A. —and, pre-
sumably, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment-concern.
There are faults on both sides —greedy
medical men and hypochondriacal
patients. A tendency to hypochondria
seems to be inevitable in any system of
free medicine. But the combination,
unchecked, can make drastic inroads on
the national finances ; and, in fact, has.
The scheme itself is a good one, and
the majority of medical men don’t abuse
it. The more the pity, then, if a few
black sheep cause a general tightening of
restrictions that deprive genuine cases of
necessary treatment. But since the scheme
has come into operation flourishing prac-
tices have been built on pensioner-
patronage. If the total of cases visited,
or seen in a surgery, is analysed in these
practices, it leaps to the eye that the
average of time spent with each patient
is a matter of minutes. *
How is it done? Some practitioners
split their territory into zones. On
certain days, together with calls on pri-
vate patients, they visit every pensioner
on their books in that zone. Some visits
may be necessary. Others are not: “How
is your rheumatism today, Mrs. Jones?”
Down it goes on the account. If the
medico goes to a building where several
pensioners live, or to a convalescent-home
which specialises in pensioners, the Com-
monwealth may be billed for a visit to
each patient. Patients’ visits to surgeries,
too, can be increased, for such routine
examinations as blood- or urine-tests.
Sometimes as many as three visits are
charged where one would be enough.
Some practices of this sort are run on
highly efficient lines, with the imperson-
ality of a big business. An employer
with several hardworking assistants,
working to a finely-adjusted schedule.
The money rolls in.
There are other rackets, which apply
not only to the treatment of pensioners.
As an example, a woman with a minor
infection was given penicillin-injections.
Penicillin, a life-saving drug, is free. She
paid a total of four-guineas for two visits
to a surgery, involving two injections and
incidental treatment, and signed for nine-
million units of penicillin. Two-million
units would have been adequate. Multi-
ply this a few thousand, or even hundred,
times and you have a considerable
wastage.
This isn’t an isolated case. In some
instances it is, if not strictly honest, at
least not altogether reprehensible. Many
g.p.s like to have a reserve of certain
drugs for emergencies. But there is
reason to believe that some veterinary-
surgeons—who find penicillin and the like
hard to get—sometimes pay for irregular
supplies;
But there remains the problem of the
hypochondriacal patient. The lodge-
patient of former times sometimes pre-
sented this sort of problem; but, then,
a lodge-secretary had means of disciplin-
ing him. Both doctors and patients need
disciplining, and the proper body to do
it would be the B.M.A. A special medi-
cal panel, assisted by a legal man, with
adequate powers to punish offenders, and
treating each case on its merits, could do
a great deal to stop the rot. It is in the
interests of both public and the profes-
sion that something of the kind be done.
If not, the way is left open for the intro-
duction of a complete National Health
Scheme which, wherever it has been
tried, has resulted in a lowering of
standards. '
"Colonial 11 Benefits
“Stromlg” : Too many people in Aus-
tralia, as elsewhere, have succumbed to
the specious propaganda that all “colo-
nialism” is bad and decadent. Asian and
African nations which have been under
colonial rule of various types can be
excused for feeling, in today’s world,
that freedom is worth every, sacrifice ;
but many of them now recognise, even if
they do not acknowledge, that the era of
colonial rule had many benefits, as well
as some drawbacks.
Certainly Britain has always led the van
in recognition of the fact that colonies
are a responsibility in the same way that
children are a parent’s responsibility.
They need care and attention and
training before they are able to
stand on their own feet and make
their own way in the world. Some other
countries have not done so well, and
much of the current wave of hostility,
fanned vigorously by, interests which
impose virtual slavery on their own sub-
servient peoples, has been due to exploita-
tion of native populations and natural
resources without the contribution of
anything adequate in return.
In the London “Times” an authority
on tropical Sir Philip Mason-
Bahr, expressed his resentment at the
attacks on Britain by Russian leaders
during their Asian tour, and urged that
an authoritative statement should be
issued on the benefits which British rule
had conferred on mankind, and especially
on the health and well-being of tropical
peoples. He pointed out that there had
hardly been a precedent to the victory
won over the diseases of the tropics in
the last half-century. It had been so com-
plete that some of the most pestilential
areas, including even the west coast of
Africa, had been converted into health-
resorts.
It was true, he said, that Britain had
naturally and permissibly benefited by
her association with her tropical
possessions, but the benefits conferred in
return had included, in addition to health,
the building of roads, railways, harbors,
telegraphs, schools and hospitals. Agri-
culture had been introduced and devel-
oped, arts and crafts had been taught,
valuable minerals discovered. Planned
education had created ordered govern-
ment. Who, above all, he asked, had led
these peoples along the path to prosperity
and peace?
The Back Bench
The stand taken by back-benchers in the
Federal Parliament seems likely to have
salutary effects on the nature of that
institution.
For a couple of decades now the Rep-
resentatives has been little more than a
machine for registering the decisions of
a Government backed by a party major-
ity. When “Labor” has been in power
it has merely given legal standing to
decisions made in semi-secret by caucus,
which in turn has taken the orders of a
completely extra-legal junta representing
unions, largely Communist, and a few
skeleton A.L.P. branches.
Private members have steadily lost
their individual rights in the party-room,
where primary decisions are made to be
forced on Parliament, and “grievance-
days,” when members have had the right
of generalised free speech, and private-
members’ days when they could move
private bills, have ceased to exist. To
buck the majority party-ruling—which
often is a ruling by a minority of the
House taken behind closed doors —has
been regarded as something like treason
for as long as present sitting-members
can remember.
At one time it was recognised that
finance was both the basis and the test
of Governments, and in consequence the
debates on the Estimates were a feature
of the years’ work which members took
very seriously. Departments were raked
over thoroughly in detail and accounts
properly criticised, in these days the
swelling estimates of expenditure by
nearly 160,000 Commonwealth employees
are scrambled through in desultory
fashion. No time is given for proper
detailed debate. Criticism is almost
resented by Governments and brushed
aside. Power of Parliament over finance
has become only nominal. Members and
Ministers and the civil service have
almost come to the point at which it is
tacitly agreed that Ministers and their
secretaries are all-powerful in money
matters. And that certainly is not what
the Constitution intends.
As to private bills, their introduction
is signalised, when Governments cannot
prevent their being brought down, by
strong pressure to see that they don’t run
counter to Ministerial opinion. Parlia-
ment has only very rarely a chance of a
free vote on them unhampered by party
direction.
The House itself has steadily changed.
There seems to be none of the privacy
and seclusion which members and
Ministers are undoubtedly entitled
to, especially since the bus-proprietors
have added Parliament to the attractions
which their tourists pay to see. It is
desirable that as many people as possible
should see the House* in session, but not
that members should have to leave the
Chamber by passing through a stream of
onlookers who are wandering round
Queen’s Hall.
It is a good sign that back-bench
Liberal members like Fairbaim and
Downer have begun to protest against
Parliamentary conditions and are showing
signs of independence. They are carrying-
out a function which the Opposition
might have performed if it really per-
formed the functions of an Opposition,
which it doesn’t, “Labor” theory being
that a “Labor” Opposition is intended
only to promote the class-war.
Any invasions of Parliamentary rights
or privileges it is prepared to support so
long as its members benefit when in
office.
Pity the Poor M.P.!
Political opponents in the various
Parliaments of Australia differ on many
subjects, but there is one point on which
they find no difficulty in being
unanimous. All agree that they deserve
more money than they get for their
services to the country. Although Mr.
A, on the Opposition side of the House,
may state both in public and in private
that Mr. B,'a Government member, is
a menace to the wellbeing of the country,
he will cheerfully vote for a bill which
increases Mr. B’s salary—and his own —
by five or 10 pounds a week. Mr. B,
whose opinion of Mr. A is probably lower
than the latter’s is of him, is at one with
him in agreeing that they both deserve
to be better paid.
It is, of course, rather difficult to decide
the real worth of an M.P. in hard cash.
If s so hard to find a common denomina-
tor. Members are not likely to submit
themselves to an intelligence-test; there’s
no entrance-examination; the Speaker
keeps no tally of the amount of work
they do ; “Hansard” records what they
say in Parliament, but makes no estimate
of its value to the community. Nor can
their usefulness be assessed from the
number of letters they write or the
number of constituents they see; under
this heading, who can say what propor-
tion of their work is really for the public
good and how much should be properly
classified as “nursing the electorate” —
in other words, making the member’s
marble good for the next election?
In the last few years members of all
Australian Parliaments have found it
necessary to raise their salaries. Some
have done it more adroitly than others.
The Victorian Parliament, in giving itself
its last substantial rise, tacked on a clause
which gave members the benefit of rises
in the cost of living. The Queensland
members thought of an even neater idea.
Their screws, now the highest in Aus-
tralia, go up automatically every time
the public servants get a rise. Last
October this brought them a lift of £450
a year.
The Canberra method is to leave the
decision to an outside committee. Federal
members got their last rise in 1952, and
the report of the Richardson Committee,
soon to be tabled, is believed to have
recommended a further increase of £5OO
a year. There’s not likely to be any
opposition to this from the members
themselves, but as the public may not be
very enthusiastic, members will no doubt
feel the necessity to justify their claims
when the bill is debated. They will be
able to quote two recent examples of
members in other Parliaments who have
found it hard to make both ends meet.
Firstly, Mr. L. Diplock, “Labor”
M.L.A. for Condamine in the Queens-
land Assembly. Like his colleagues, Mr.
o Continued, on next page)


Diplock receives about £2450 a year for
his Parliamentary chore. He claims it
isn’t enough; that his withdrawals from
the bank in the last three years have
been £742 ahead of his deposits; that
after paying expenses he has less than
the basic wage to live on. Travelling
about his electorate at the rate of 40,000
miles a year eats up most of his dough.
The hearts of basic-wage earners in
Queensland —if any can be found —will
doubtless bleed for Mr. Diplock.
The case of Mr. Bert Bailey, Victorian
M.L.C., is somewhat different. He
doesn’t tour his electorate at the rate of
40,000 miles a year. If he did he’d get
rather dizzy, as West Melbourne is only
a few square miles in area. But his
expenses must mount up in some way
that exhausts his £2OOO a year. Other-
wise why should he be working as a
barman at the Port Phillip Hotel at
£l3 16s. 9d. a week? Mr. Bailey’s story
is that he is gaining experience with a
view of taking over a pub, but his col-
leagues shake their heads and want to
know how an underpaid member of
Parliament can possibly hope to acquire
a pub. Mr. Bailey is a member of the
Anti-Communist “Labor” party.
Members of the Liquor Trades Union
don’t appreciate Mr. Bailey’s attempt to
hold down two jobs, and the Queensland
Public Service Union doesn’t think much
of its tie-up with Parliamentary salaries.
Its president recently said:
It is not generally known that when our
union succeeds in the court it gains, in
addition, salary-increases for City Council
employees, railway employees, hospital
employees, and, in fact, for some trade-
union secretaries. That constitutes a con-
siderable burden, but it -is nothing com-
pared with the weight of 75 politicians who
enjoy our successes.
Still, there’s the evidence for the benefit
of any Federal member who wants to
use it.
POLITICAL POINTS
With the N. S. Wales election-cam-
paign in its final stages Cahill seems, if
not panicky, then at least visibly shaken.
Morton has proved a much more ener-
getic campaigner than his opponent
reckoned on and the Liberal team much
more united than was anticipated after
the double change of leadership.
• •
“Labor’s” attempt to depict the N.S.W.
Opposition as a disunited rabble must
bring wry smiles to the faces of the A.L.P.
supporters with firsthand knowledge of
the faction-fight in their own sub-branches
and of the half-hearted support some
“Labor” candidates are getting from their
own electoral councils.
• •
There’s been a big change in the tone
of A.L.P. election ads., too ; a desperate
attempt to prove that the Cahill Gov-
ernment has done something for New
South Wales. The list looks formidable
but means little. And when the propa-
gandists think it necessary to compare
conditions in the State today with condi-
tions under the last Liberal Government
(actually U.A.P.) fifteen years ago, they
must be getting worried. Is any swinging
voter likely to be impressed with a com-
parison of wages in 1939 and wages today,
without any reference to living-costs? Or
by the fact that the value of primary pro-
duction is greater now than it was then?
• •
On his country tour Cahill was by no
means the urbane Premier of three years
ago. His reference to Morton as “the
Billy Bunter of State politics” could have
been clean fun —the Liberal leader has
a rotund figure and wears spectacles—but
the same can’t be said of his description
of 73-year-old Colonel Bruxner: —
That aged Country-party warrior, Mr.
Bruxner, has called again for his boots and
saddle. He creaks his way through the
outback electorates in the spirit of Destry
Rides Again.
To this Bruxner replied:
The Cahill Government has made such
a mess of transport that it is just as well
I am able to make use of boots and saddle.
So far as being an aged warrior is con-
cerned, I have just completed 300 miles by
road today, and have spoken in three
towns ... I will be up and at it again
tomorrow/... I may be an aged warrior,
but I can still throw Joe.
• •
As usual at this stage, both leaders in
the N. S. Wales election-campaign
express confidence in victory. Cahill
says “Labor” will retain all its seats
and probably gain two —Maitland and
Albury. His hopes regarding Maitland
are based on the retirement of Liberal
member Howarth, who has held the seat
since 1932. No one knows what he is
basing his Albury expectations on—
possibly on the fact that he is not running
F. J. Finnan this time.
• •
Morton’s guess is that the Opposition
will win 12 seats from “Labor,” possibly
16. The lower figure would give him a
bare majority. Liberal and Country-
party hopes are based partly on Federal
results and partly on a conviction that
the electors have had Cahill.
Many “Labor” seats are held by a slim
majority, and some Opposition gains
seem certain, but the last few seats of
the dozen needed for victory require a
considerable swing.
• •
Seats most in danger are Armidale
(1953 majority, 13), Dubbo (691), Drum-
moyne (929), Parramatta (990), Mudgee
(999), Dulwich Hill (by-election, 1236),
Coogee (1323), Sutherland (1425), Con-
cord (1988), Ryde (2007), North Sydney
(2550), Kogarah (2559), Young (2716),
Liverpool Plains (2906).
If the Federal vote is repeated “Labor”
will lose all these and two or three be-
sides ; Bondi, George’s River and Castle-
reagh would be the next in line.
• •
A curious sight in King’s Hall, Can-
berra, was a group of visiting Moral
Rearmamenters being shepherded by the
curiously ill-assorted trip which com-
prises the Parliamentary members of
M.R. —Duthie (“Labor” Whip), Kim
Beazley, and W. S. Kent Hughes.
“Cosmos”: Flemington (Vic.) by-elec-
tion resulted, as expected, in a win for the
Evatt “Labor” candidate, K. Holland, son
of the recently deceased member. Sig-
nificant was the increased vote given to
the Anti-Communist “Labor” candidate
Johnny Madden, former City Councillor
and compere for the “Labor” hour on
3KZ; also a one-time campaign-organiser
for Calwell. Madden’s vote was 44 per
cent, of that won by Holland. There were
nasty scenes at some polling-booths,
where teams allegedly supporting Holland
cried that a vote for Madden was a vote
for the Pope. As Holland is of the Catho-
lic faith also, unfair inferences regarding
where he stands with the Pope might
have been drawn but for the fact that it
is known that some of those spouting the
sectarian stuff would be quite at home
around a samovar with Burgess and
Maclean.
• •
Evatt and Co. have again refused to
nominate for the Parliamentary Foreign
Affairs Committee although the Doc. and
several of his followers consider them-
selves experts in that field. When Casey
extended the latest invitation, Calwell
explained that his party would join the
committee if it had executive powers.
That makes nonsense in two ways. To
start with, no Government could be
expected to hand over its policy-making
on foreign affairs —or any other subject
SHOWING THE FLAG
—to a committee. Moreover, a committee
with executive power would have to be
regarded as part of the machinery of
government, and “Labor” has consistently
refused to have anything to do with
coalitions.
• •
Menzies spoke at North Sydney on
Friday night in support of the State
Liberals ; Evatt spoke nowhere on behalf
of N. S, Wales “Labor.” Or if he did
speak it was kept a mighty close secret.
Federal Ministers and Government
members have been campaigning actively
in both city and country electorates.
“Labor” M.H.R.s seem to have been
keeping well out of the fight, though
Eden-Monaro Fraser, wandering lonely
as a cloud, showed-up in Goulburn on
Friday.
• •
N.S.W. Libs, must be sincere about
their intention to clean up the Cahill
mess. They’ve even put up a dry-
cleaner (29-year-old Jim Skehan) to
oppose the Premier in Cook’s River.
• •
Joe Richley, wrongly described as an
Independent in the N. S. Wales electoral
list (B. 15/ 2/ ’566), is the endorsed
Liberal candidate for Kahibah. This is
the seat Joe Arthur once graced. At
the by-election after the Doyle inquiry
the former Mines Minister’s father was
the endorsed “Labor” candidate. He
came third in a field of five, with Inde-
pendent “Labor” man T. Armstrong just
shading Liberal Quinlan on the primaries.
Armstrong is defending his seat on
Saturday against an official “Labor” can-
didate and Richley. Preferences will
decide the issue; with the changed politi-
cal atmosphere the Liberal could easily
be in front on the first count.
Those responsible for raising loans for
semi-Governmental authorities in New
South Wales must have felt a trifle envi-
ous at the ease with which Playford’s
Electricity Trust of South Australia filled
its latest £500,000 loan. The loan opened
at 10 a.m. on Friday and was fully-
subscribed by noon.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Moscow is reported
to have received approval of the Inter-
national Geophysical Year people, sitting
in Brussels last year, for an airline of
11,880 miles from Moscow, via Tehran,
Karachi, Colombo, Djakarta and Fre-
mantle, to the Antarctic base which the
Soviet has built, with Australian permis-
sion, on our territory in Antarctica
where the Red Flag was hoisted recently.
The other planned route is via Cairo,
Nairobi, Jo’burg, Durban and Cape
Town, a distance of 10,080 miles. A
statement from External Affairs might be
illuminating.
• •
“With regard to water-supply and
sewerage, I personally have been very
active.”—L. J. Tully, “Labor” candidate
for Goulburn. Apparently the atom-
bomb hasn’t been wholly responsible.
• •
Coutts, “Labor” M.H.R. for Griffith
(Q.), has brought to the light of day
“Labor’s” plank of abolition of the Sen-
ate, forgotten these many years. He says
that the present set-up is a denial of
democracy because the principle of gov-
ernment by the majority can be denied.
Referring to the fact that the Government
will lack a majority in ,the Senate after
July 1, he said in the Reps.
I feel that when the people have voted
for a Government democracy demands that
it be permitted to govern. The tragedy of
the situation is that the Government has
won the election and cannot govern because
of the situation in the Senate.
If the honorable member feels that way
about it he can easily see that the demands
of democracy are met. All he has to do
is persuade one “Labor” Senator to vote
with the Government. Surely there’s qne
democrat among the batch.
• •
Melbourne motorists have been given
the run-around oyer the St. Kilda round-
about. |
• •
When is news not news? Last Wednes-
day A.B.C. Queensland stations included
this item in their 7 p.m. news-bulletin:
The Deputy-Leader of the Opposition
(Mr. Morris) tonight made cleat' Liberal-
Country-party election policy on the 40-
hour week. Mr. Morris told a press-con-
ference tonight, “We will definitely not
alter the 40-hour week in this State.” Mr.
Morris said the. Opposition parties were
satisfied the 40-hour week would work,
particularly if good arbitration-machinery
were incorporated with a system of incen-
tive-payments. Mr. Morris said he also
wished to stifle suggestions that if returned
to Government the Opposition parties
would abolish free hospitals. On the con-
trary, the Opposition intended to see that
hospitals were properly equipped.
Maintaining that this was not news but
propaganda, Queensland Treasurer Walsh
protested to the A.B.C. The item was
not repeated in the 9 p.m. news.
« •
“Loki”: Civic authorities of Mont-
gomery (Alabama) have authorised
wholesale arrests of negroes for boycot-
ting the buses as a protest against the
segregation-laws. What an inspiration
for the N. S. Wales Transport Minister!
It’s milch simpler to arrest people for not
patronising Sydney’s antiquated and
dilapidated transport-system than to
attract customers by improving the
service.
• •
In the South Australian election Play-
ford doesn’t seem in any danger of having
his long run interrupted. The intrusion
of ten Anti-Communist “Labor” candi-
dates has given an unusual interest to
the campaign in several electorates where
the going is usually one-sided. With
Liberal preferences they could pick-up a
seat or so, but the more likely effect
will be to reduce further “Labor’s” repre-
sentation in the House.
• •
There’ll also be an election for the S.A.
Legislative Council on March 3 —but only
just. In four of the five there’ll
be no contest, two “Labor” candidates
and six Libs, being returned unopposed.
Each of the three parties will run a pair
of candidates for the remaining district,
Northern.
• •
J.M.C. on a promise:
So Mr. Cahill will increase the output of
superphosphate “to 400,000 tons to meet the
needs of primary producers”? That’s a laugh!
Years ago a fertiliser company sought to
acquire an area for a new factory on vacant
Crown land on the Carrington peninsula at
Newcastle where there was suitable deep-water
frontage for handling bulk raw-materials.
Although the McKell Government agreed to
make this site available, succeeding “Labor”
Governments failed to do so. Instead, (he
area was allocated to industries not primarily
in need of deep-water berths; 16 acres of
land were allotted to a firm of carriers. To
build a factory on sites now available would
add up to £1 per ton to the cost of super, com-
pared with the product of plants on a water-
front site.
However, the cost factor is only part of the
story. If the “Labor” Government had co-
operated, additional modern plant would now
be producing cheap superphosphate, and there
would have been no shortage whatever in recent
years.
• •
“In the ACT”: Little wonder that taxes
are high. At the rear of Parliament
House about 8 p.m. the other night (in
other words, at an hour when bus-trans-
port was still operating), two big Minis-
terial cars took home a number of wait-
resses whose duties for the day were
apparently over. How often does this
occur, and at what cost?
• •
Cahill is asking the electors not to risk
the untried Morton team but to trust his
own experienced Government. Hie
Cahills are experienced all right—and how
N. S. Wales has paid for their experience!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
'«7HEN our cop was married the padre,
proposing the toast to the couple,
said he had stopped his car in the main
street when he had seen the policeman
striding towards him, and had said,
“Hullo, what have I done wrong?”
“Nothing,” replied the cop; “I just
wanted to make arrangements about get-
ting married.” “So,” said the padre, “I
had to get out my notebook and take his
name and particulars.”—“Corpus.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: On the bus I mentioned to
a travelling-companion my 10-year-old
daughter’s satisfactory progress with her
piano-playing. “It will be a great asset
to her,” he commented. “Why, some of
the women in this city make as much as
three-pounds a night playing at the beer-
gardens.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: About eighteen, tall,
graceful and pretty, impeccably dressed
in pink, with tiny hat and gloves and a
slender, perfectly-furled parasol. Her
walk was a poem, and with the dignity
of a queen she seated herself to await her
bus. Then from her handbag she pro-
duced a bag of popcorn, and began to
demolish it, the four gloved fingers and
thumb ready-bunched, waiting impati-
ently with a fresh consignment for space
in those exquisite champing jaws.
“Nunk”: Predominance of abstract
paintings in, Sydney’s Blake competition
for religious paintings suggests rather the
arabesques of the mosque than the
stained-glass windows of the cathedral.
Abstraction is not merely a tendency of
Mohammedanism, but a necessity: Mos-
lems are forbidden representation. What
are the suddenly-religious artists of
Sydney striving for—a union of Rome
with Islam? ;
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nobs”: The carton of orange-juice
one vitaminises oneself with says the firm,
a Broken Hill concern, has a “branch-
store” in George-street, Sydney.
♦2* *2*
“J.E.8.”: My teacher son, trans-
ferred to a school still further back o’
beyond, tells me that the people who
board him decided to invite the doctor,
the matron, the coroner, the undertaker,
and the timber-merchant to meet him.
Matron is married to the undertaker, who
is brother-in-law to the timber-merchant,
who assists in making the coffins. “Every
time you write, Dad,” says my son, “you
tell me to take care of myself. In a close-
knit community of kindred interests like
this, what do you suggest? Should I
apply for an immediate transfer on com-
passionate grounds, or should I increase
my insurance?”
“Stan”: Melbourne Tramway Board’s
decision to experiment with women
, drivers has met with approval of the
female connies, who say they will “give
it a go if provided with trousers instead
of skirts.” Could be the adjustable mirror
in the driver’s cabin has helped. But how
curious that women, who used to be satis-
fied with anything in trousers, will now-
adays settle for just the trousers.
<2* <2*
“A.C.T.”: A training-school for shop-
assistants was suggested at a meeting of
the National Council for Women in
Canberra by a member who thought it
might assist young persons leaving school
by giving them “a sense of status and
vocation.” She added as an afterthought
that it could also benefit shopkeepers—•
and customers. As a customer of Can-
berra shops I’ll give it my strongest moral
support.
❖ ❖ ***
“G. A.L.”: So Monaco has been having
difficulty in finding a suitable portrait of
Grace Kelly for a royal-wedding stamp.
At least they have an excellent excuse for
a new issue this time. Over the years the
philatelic status of the principality has
slipped badly. They’ve issued a never-
ending stream of jamtin-labels, serving
only to delight small boys, and (no doubt)
the keeper of Monaco’s money-bags.
Subjects commemorated over the last
five years are Winter Olympics, Jules
Verne, Monte Carlo Rally, Seabirds,
Old and New Transport, Dr. Schweitzer,
Rainier’s Seal, de la Salle, St. V. de Paul,
Anaphylaxis, De Goncourts’ Journal,
Helsinki Games, Postal Museum, Her-
cules Gallery, Monaco Radio, Holy
Year, Goncourt Academy, Prince Albert
Statue, and Rainier’s Accession.
❖ *>
“J.K.”: The slab-cottage, its shingle-
roof replaced with iron, in which John
Shaw Neilson was born at Penola (S.A.)
is to be demolished. Penola District
Council refused to buy it and set it up on
a suitable site as a Neilson museum.
*x*
“Max”: Although most of us would
like to see a plentiful supply of luxury
food in the city again (B. 15/2/’56), it’s
to be hoped it will not appear in the form
of bags of gill-birds, or any other beauti-
ful or interesting native birds. Better
plan would be that practised by my friend,
the retired market-gardener who ridded
his strawberry-crops of a pest and made
a nice sideline profit by supplying sacks
of starlings to a big city hotel; they
appeared at table as quail-on-toast, and
were in great demand, especially from
overseas travellers, who always know
more about food than we do.
♦2* +> ❖
“Baldy”: The one-time opening of
barber’s shops on Sundays was for shaves
rather than haircuts. A large number of
men in the early 1900's shaved only once
a week and this was generally on Sun-
days. I lived with an N.S.W. member of
Parliament in 1903. He was a good
churchman. Every Sunday morning he
went to one of the barbers in a Sydney
suburb for a shave. Then he would dress
in his Sunday-best for 11 a.m. church,
where he was a lay deacon taking round
the plate.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“W.P.T.”: While many of our churches
bear the names of saints, not all were
named in honor of saints. St. Phillip’s,
on Church Hill, Sydney, was named in
honor of Governor Phillip; St. John’s
Church in Parramatta was named after
Governor John Hunter. Captain Philip
Gidley King issued an order that these
churches should be so named. It seems
a pity that the fashion of canonising
Governors didn’t include Macquarie,
who built so many fine churches. He got
his name on so much of Australia that it
seems wrong not to have a St. Lachlan’s.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: As the poet says, only
women understand women, and they hate
them. At the tea-break the handsome
blonde said, “Since I got engaged I’m a
reformed character.” The office-spinster
replied, “You had to be, didn’t you,
darling—to get yourself engaged?”
*2+
“Fasdean”: Floods in the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.)—the first recorded was in 1809.
Macquarie did the rounds next year and
picked the sites for Hawkesbury town-
ships on high ground ; so the business-
section of Windsor misses-out. Another
corker came in ’57 ; it carried the year-
old bridge over the Nepean at Penrith
out to sea; its successor went the same
route next year. The present bridge came
from Russia. The Tsar’s coffers were
empty, so the London makers sold it to
N.S.W.
* * *
“O’Johnno”: “Dorian’s” suggestion for
using glass bottles in organs instead of
pipes, on the score of cheapness (B.
8/2/’56), recalls that Benjamin Franklin
invented the glass-harmonica in 1762.
Mozart, Beethoven and others composed
for it. It had its virtuosi, such as Mari-
anne Davies and Marianna Kirchgessner.
Specimens of the Franklin type of instru-
ment are in the Victoria and Albert
Museum, London.
<jt-
“Maitri”: On March 3 we're again to
be done out of the democratic privilege
of a free lift to the polling-booths, and
threequarters of our “electors” would be
hard put to give a name to our represen-
tative —whoever he is, he’s never opened
his mouth in the House and we don’t get
the thrill before the elections of hearing
him offer us the world. In a safe seat it
might flatter the voters if two men in the
party were allowed to stand: then, at
least, we’d have our little flutter at the
booths and kid ourselves we were doing
something towards getting the Govern-
ment we deserve.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Glad. Tohelp”: Tell “Kia Ora,” who
asks (B. 15/2/’56) “Where are the sago
grains of yesterday?”, that the mystery
is solved in the cooking. Keep the sago
dry. Get a pot of water boiling briskly
on the stove and gradually pour in the
dry sago, and the grains will reappear.
“Bosco”: The plunging-V backline has
it over the round and square varieties,
and because of nylon blouses it won’t be
long before the bra. is exterior dress and
ornamentation. What was once a “late-
’teens-early-twenties” period now reaches
from early-’teens well up into the thirties.
But charm still breaketh through the glaze
of fashion. A young female, deliciously
proportioned, beautiful complexion, her
carriage easy and graceful, dressed en-
chantingly, and wearing shoes sufficiently
long in the heel to make the calves shape
nicely, strolled serenely along the pave-
ment. Ten minutes later she came back,
equally as serenely, but padding barefeet,
her shoes swinging in her hand. Her
I could love.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Dorian”: Arrived late at the Sydney
cathedral where a massed choral and
orchestral show was on, so got a well-
removed seat right behind a view-
stopping lOft.-wide stone pillar. I picked-
out, above violins and voices, the distant
twanging of a harpsichord, quite a rarity ;
so at intermission I investigated. It was
an upright piano with drawing-pins
plugged into the striking-side of the
hammers.
+!♦ ♦♦♦
“Eureka”: A child with hepatitis
must remain away from school for three
weeks, which seems to be a good way to
prevent the spread of this infectious
disease. However, the child is at liberty
to play with other children before and
after school, run messages to shops,
attend the talkies, picnics and anywhere
else . . . Shouldn’t the child be kept
under some sort of quarantine?
♦j»
“Lorna Doone”: That two-pounds-a-
year we pay to the P.M.G. gets us train-
information served-up in two or more
styles. The old-school-tie variety comes
from the A.8.C.: “The Overland on time,
Broken Hill on time, and the Transconti-
nantal many hours delayed. It is sug-
gested that those interested may check-
up later in the day for estimated time
of arrival.” If you incline towards a
more racy commentary, one commercial
station may give: “Overland on time,
Broken Hill on time (must have mended
the line!) and the Trans, well, goodness
knows where that is. Howzabout you
give the girls at the station a buzz a
little later in the day?”
♦>
“Zorok”: A British housewife who
took up weight-lifting to slim, and has
just set a British weight-lifting record,
says every girl should have a couple of
dumb-bells about the house. But thats
bigamy.
INTERFERING BUSYBODIES
“With all the frenzy of a political amateur,
Liberal leader Morton asks you to throw
away the Government which has made this
State prosperous... .This is no time for
hazardous political experiments ”
“Labor*’ election advertisement.
Says Mr. Cahill, “Excuse me, sir,
This Morton is an amateur!
Why not be satisfied with me ?
I mess things up professionally :
Can Morton say he gagged the press,
Grabbed land, filled unions, by duress,
Mismanaged fluids, then staged the bluff
Of never having had enough,
And then continue to equate
Such methods with our prosperous State ?
No amateur would dare to say
Such things: I say them every day.
“This is no time, I tell you, gents .
For hazardous experiments —
Like making railways pay, and trams.
Completing hospitals and dams,
Building homes to promised dates,
Keeping costs to estimates,
And seeking only public ends
Instead of finding jobs for friends . . .
“They don’t know what goes on, you see,
These amateurs, but only we,
The Government and kith and kin,
Know what a mess the State is in;
So why let amateurs invade it ?
It’s better left to us, who made it!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
HORSESENSE
My love is like my little bay mare, only
she has four white feet and a swampy back
and hindquarters like a blood horse, my
father says—and I believe him—for
my little bay mare is haughty and proud
and
stands erect and daring and paws
the ground, dirtying her pretty white
stockings, but can be spoken to,
which is the difference.
n.s.w.
RAY ALEXANDER.


“Excuse me, but that's our possie. We have it every year."
■Q ED, blue and green poetry, tat-
tered and grimy, which had
dominated thousands of lives —fought-for,
sweated-for, pined-for, eagerly pursued,
hungrily grasped, reluctantly parted-with
—tossed into a white-hot furnace in
daily instalments, the ashes raked to en-
sure that no particles escaped, the smoke
passed through wire of finest mesh: the
Savonarolas of the Commonwealth Bank
burned a record £200,000,000 in notes last
year.—“Moorapi.”
4*4 4*4 4j4
“C.P.G.”: When a fire broke out at the
Victorian Taxation Department’s office
the brigade “put the darned thing out
before it could do any serious good,” in
the words of a bystanding taxpayer.
4*4 4*4 4*4
“Rimutuka”: When “Mullum” (B.
1/2/’56) wonders why poker-machines
have such a fascination for women, I
think he partly answers himself when he
says “Give the wife a handful of deeners.”
It’s fun to gamble with someone else’s
money! On the ship to N.Z. I couldn’t
tear myself away from the pirate down in
the misnamed “barber’s shop” (it sold
everything), and most other women-
passengers were under the same spell.
We all felt we couldn’t lose. Our Aus-
tralian coinage wasn’t going to be legal
tender in N:Z., so why not have some
fun with it?
4J4 4*4 4J4
“Jemac”: James Holledge was cer-
tainly right when (in “Safer Surgery,” B.
15/2/’56) he claimed
that new anaesthetics are
partly the reason for the
advance in modern
operative procedures. In
the last four major
operations I have seen
the patient was
conscious, though a bit
glassy-eyed, almost im-
mediately the final sutur-
ing was completed, in
the theatre, on the table.
The old dropping-ether-
on-mask method is out;
even the anaesthetic-
mask, with its electric-
ally-operated machine,
is going. In long-work,
because the patient must
not use his lungs him-
self, a tube is inserted
down the trachea; by
squeezing a football-
bladder affair, the
anaesthetist provides the
lungs directly with the
oxygen they would
normally extract from
the atmosphere, as well
as the anaesthetic. This
today can be cyclo-pro-
pane, nitrous - oxide,
pethidine, tubarine (for
relaxing tense muscles)
And the patient is kept
only lightly under —hence the almost
immediate awakening. A half-doped,
recuperative sleep follows back in the
ward; but no vomiting, no headaches.
An anaesthetist tells me that on no
account could he use ether if the electri-
cal cauterising knife were to be used
instead of the conventional scalpel—the
seeping ether could be ignited!
4*4 4> 4*4
“Matho”: Staying at a Canberra hotel,
my wife and I were incredulous when
our seven-year-old daughter assured us
she had seen members of the Salvation
Army drinking in the private lounge.
The reputation of the Sallies was saved
when a very dignified colonel led a party
of Regular Army officers, all in mess-
uniform, in to dinner.
4*4 +** 4>
“Erah”: A statuette wept (B. 15/2/’56)
at an auction-sale at Fivedock (Sydney)
recently. It was a bust of Princess Alex-
andra, brought from Denmark 80 years
ago, and before the sale the owner found
it could be unscrewed into small pieces.
It was washed and put together again.
At the sale the auctioneer moved the table
it was on and it wept —evidently some
water had remained in a cavity.
4*4 j* &
“Apemantus”: The sound-effects man
can do only what the producer orders,
so it was not his scientific ignorance that
spoilt that broadcast of Poe’s “The Pit
and the Pendulum” for “Wusslean” (B.
1/2/’56). But is factual accuracy so
aim
necessary in drama? Edgar Allan Poe,
in the original, put that pendulum in a
room about 19ft. square by 20ft. or 30ft.
high. Later, he gave it a .. .terrifically
wide - sweep (some thirty-feet or
m0re)....” which would have smashed
it more than sft. through each of the
opposing walls. Despite that technical
stupidity, the story has thrilled millions
for about 120 years.
♦*4 <4 4*4
“Kaymara”: Mentioned in one of the
A.B.C. news-bulletins as having his home
near Penrith washed-out from under him
at the height of the floods around Sydney
—Mr. George Waterhouse.
♦> 4*4
“C.A.Y.”: I had a cuppa opposite two
Misses discussing a newcomer to the dis-
trict: “Oh, my deah, she’s the sort of
person who wears fuji-bloomers —if you
know what I mean.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Maitri”: A large tree in our side-
street kept my room in constant winter
twilight, so the Town Clerk was
approached with the request that it be
lopped. He agreed, but nothing happened.
I lopped it myself, to learn that as I, and
not municipal employees, had done the
job, I’d have to arrange, and pay, to
have the boughs carted away.
4*4 4j4 4j4
“Mugga Way”: Sydney University’s
decision to establish a Chair of Austra-
lian Literature, maybe, was approved by
the principal of Canberra University
College, Professor Herbert Burton, who
pointed out that the college had
pioneered, through Mr. Tom Inglis
Moore, the full-time teaching of Aus-
tralian literature in Australian universi-
ties. It established its first full-year
course in 1954, and the excellent series of
lectures by Mr. Moore attracted many
of the general public and American Ful-
bright scholars doing post-graduate
research, as well as ordinary degree-
students. The success secured recognition
of Australian literature as an independent
subject to be taken at the college for the
Melbourne University B.A. degree. The
senior lectureship in the subject estab-
lished by the college was the first of its
kind in Australia.
4> ■> »I
“Kelly’s Friend”: “Bo’s” wag who
changed the nationality of the “Fresh
Rabbits” to “Irish” (B. 8/2/’56) might
be the son of rpy table-mate at a moun-
tain boarding-house. Arriving first for
breakfast at our table-for-four, he did a
little scraping with his penknife and added
a touch with hisffountain-pen to three
letters of the item “Rolled Oats” on the
typewritten menu. The Reverend and his
unsmiling wife afterwards requested the
management to have a check made thrice
daily in order to obviate the possibility
of any recurrence of “so nauseating an
aftermath to a typist’s error.” Jim had
turned the dish at the head of the list
into “Boiled Cats.”
4*4 4*4 4*4
“Driver”: A Victorian outdoor-
theatre is catering for pedestrians. They
bought a number of “bombs” and are
parking them permanently for those who
don’t own cars but want to go to the out-
door shows. Used-car dealers will
approve.
“Harden”: Went into a lollywater
foundry at Bathurst (N.S.W.) with teen-
age daughter. There, in its glittering
robot glory, stood the father of all juke-
boxes, but, as well, each alternate booth
was equipped with a baby one, a sort of
repeater-idea, where you could bung-in
sixpence and select one of 20-or-so
crooner-caterwauls. For the hell of it, I
wanted to invest five-bob in 10 different
booths, to see whether I’d gum-up the
entire works (praise Allah!) or else set-up
such a stink that the Hellenic proprietor
would, in a fit of frenzy, switch the
whole damn’ lot off at the tap. But I had
her with me.
*l< ❖
“N.L.”: The Wynyard (Sydney) tram
was packed and closed-up because of
rain. A man puffed away contentedly at
his aged pipe, but the lady beside him
wriggled, snorted and stared. Eventu-
ally the smoker, red-faced, put his pipe
away muttering “This is a smoking-com-
partment, madam.” The lady was very
quick: “That notice, I think, refers to
the smoking of tobacco.”
*l* ►> 'l*
“Bosco”: A slightly-built lass with a
well-developed front, who does most of
her own dressmaking, had a figure-mould
made of her body. When her stooped
maiden-aunt came to stay and found she
needed to make alterations to her frock,
the niece invited her to use the figure-
mould. Later Aunty reported, “Fancy
our figures being exactly the same,
dear!” “Oh, Aunty, they’re not!”
objected the niece. “You come and see
for yourself,” said the old lady. Sure
enough, the dress fitted perfectly—
except that it was on back-to-front.
❖ *2*
“E. & 0.E.”: A Tasmanian newspaper
described some gift of money as an
“anonymous cheque,” but my informa-
tion is that cheques signed “Anon” are
more likely to be honored anon than on
presentation.
4*4 ♦Jf
“Pevin”: Thousands of readers and
picture-goers must have thought the
“strawberry incident” in “The Caine
Mutiny” far-fetched. But on an R.A.N.
corvette at the end of the war: The first-
lieutenant, by asking the officer on the
old Platypus at Morotai for a bite of an
apple he was eating, excited so much pity
for the fruit-starved crew that an issue
of one rather wrinkled apple per man
was made to the corvette. Everyone but
the skipper ate his apple raw. r JThe
skipper handed his over to the leading
cook to be baked. Consternation at
cooking-time. The captain’s apple had
disappeared. Half-a-day’s investigation
revealed that a leading-seaman had seen
an apple in the galley and eaten it.
There was no mutiny, however. Every-
one, including the skipper, simply agreed
that the Old Man’s luck was right out
NEGATIVE APPEAL?
“Ray, do come back. Missing you very
much. Will fix things up. Millie.’'’ —Agony ad.
Now, why had he hopped it ?
Had Ray often copped it
Through doing the rent on the mokes,
Abusing her mother,
Or wooing another
Or soaking up suds with the blokes?
Or had he departed
Soon after she started
To w hinge, just because he had fed
His greyhounds on fillet,
And said that their billet
In future would be on the bed ?
Perhaps he’d got sick of
Her vexatious trick of
Discoursing {and he trying to read)
Of how big her Uncle
Erasmus’s carbuncle
Was, ere the doc. did the deed.
Another good reason
Why he did a freeze on
Her might have been that for more
“chips”
She constantly bleated,
Or that she had greeted
Him, daily, in butterfly-clips.
Her pleas—will he heed ’em
And jettison freedom,
And go back to her, cap-in-hand,
Double-harness resuming,
Discordance entombing,
With neither in utter command ?
Or will he, suspecting
Some trap, be dissecting
Her offer ? If so, then I fear
The lady will rue it;
For, should he see through it,
He’ll be Millie’s ex-Ray, that’s clear /
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“M.”: So John Collins has found a
new berth. High Commissioning in New
Zealand (or anywhere else) should suit
him. He’s a likeable officer, remembered
for a stretching grin and a friendly chat
with the officer-of-the-day about previous
ships served in when, as Navy head, he’d
step aboard. He got the Bartolomeo Col-
leoni, of course, and very nearly landed
her sister, Bande Nere. Only the
Italian’s superior speed saved her from
Sydney’s eager six-inchers. That was the
first cruiser-duel of War 11. A gunnery
specialist, Collins had all the disciplin-
ary snap of the breed, but tempered it
with an approachable geniality. His
country’s first vice-admiral, he’s brother
of author Dale; sons of a Tasmanian
medico.
0 0
An example of a schooldays nickname
sticking to a man through life is the
“Warrigal” bestowed on Cecil Bartlett
40-odd years ago by his classmates at
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide —for his
ability to imitate the howl of a dingo.
BARTLETT . of Mt. Sturt
Now the owner of Mt. Sturt station, 200
miles nor’-west of Broken Hill, Bartlett
recalls that the property was pioneered
by his grandfather and great-uncle in
1857, four years before Burke and Wills
passed that way. Mt. Sturt runs about
16,000 sheep. When drought hit the dis-
trict in 1939 “Warrigal” drove and
trucked 5000-head over 1000 miles to
Naracoorte in the south-west of South
Australia —and sold the lot for £370!
Nowadays he spends most of his time in
the city, with periodical walkabouts to
Mt. Sturt. Can still outhowl most
dingoes!
0 0
Elected president of the Royal Aus-
tralasian College of Physicians, Dr.
Edward G. Sayers, of Auckland, be-
comes the first New Zealander to hold
the office. “Doctor Ted” deserves the dis-
tinction. Christchurch-born 53 years
ago, he went to England after graduating
from Otago University, came back with
a diploma in tropical medicine and
hygiene, and went to the Solomons as a
medical missionary for seven years. To
England again for post-graduate study,
then private practice in Auckland from
1935 till he sailed for the Middle East
with the Ist N.Z. General Hospital. At
the war’s end he was consulting-physician
to the New Zealand forces in the Pacific
and in command of the 4th N.Z. G.H.
In 1944, Legion of Merit; F.R.C.P.,
1949.
0 0
Harry Ruskin Rowe, who has passed
on at 72 in Sydney, was one of the city’s
leading architects for many years and was
also well known in the grazing world ;
he owned Wonbobbie, near Warren, and
had a family-interest in Avoca, Coon-
amble. Blueprints and elevations were in
the blood; his father, Colonel Thomas
Rowe, was one of the top architects of
his day, a partner of the late Colonel
Spain, under whom the son later served
his articles. Rowe senior, first president
of the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage
Board, was C.O. of the N. S. Wales
Engineers in the old militia forces.
Ruskin Rowe was. in the Engineers, too,
and served as transport-officer with the
A.I.F. in World War I. For a time he
was in the N.S.W. Architect-in-Chief’s
department; later he formed the firm of
H. E. Ross and Rowe. He designed the
Fisher Library and several other Sydney
University buildings, but his biggest job
was the Commonwealth Savings Bank in
Martin Place, built for the N. S. Wales
Government Savings Bank. For a time
his firm was building G.S.B. branches
throughout the State at the rate of one
a month. When Rowe was filling-in his
application for admission as F.R.1.8.A.
he was able to claim that he had super-
vised the erection of buildings to the
value of £3O million; the figure grew
considerably later. The Rowes are de-
scended from the Godolphins, a family
prominent in English history in the time
of Marlborough, and probably as well
known through a horse owned by the
second Earl —the Godolphin Barb —one
of the three sires from which all
thoroughbred racehorses stem.
0 0
The Commonwealth Shipping Line’s
first apprentice has become a master.
J. F. Dodwell joined in 1944 and got his
ticket 10 years later. He is now in
temporary command of the Ransdorp.
0 0
Sighted at the front-counter giving
particulars of change-of-address, a
bearded subscriber with very blue eyes
who turned out to be Captain Philip
Potter, 0.8. E., commodore of the Bibby
Line: he’s been receiving his Bulletin
at a variety of ports for many years. An
Old Fortian, he left Sydney to learn his
business in sail, served in the R.N. in
War I and joined the Bibby Line —one
of the very few privately-owned shipping-
lines extant —in 1920. Between wars,
trading between the U.K. and Ceylon and
Burma, with some peace-time troop-
carrying thrown in (first command, 1932).
Then the Royal Navy again, in command
of Snapdragon and other corvettes, Malta
convoys (“mention”), a stint as Assistant
King’s Harbormaster at Benghazi from
December, ’42, to March, ’43, and in on
the invasions of Sicily, Salerno, Nor-
mandy, South France, Greece and
Malaya. After the war, brought migrants
here from the U.K. in Cheshire; latterly
has been in command of Port Hardy (the
old Herefordshire, under charter to the
Port Line) trading between the U.K. and
Australia and New Zealand. Rising 62,
he retires in March, and will bring his
English wife back for a look-round with
view to settling here.
0 0
When the England-Australia Tests are
played this year cricket enthusiasts will
for the first time have the choice of two
direct broadcasts —the commercial radio-
stations are arranging their own service
instead of using the A.B.C. relay. Off
to England to complete details of the
hook-up in which over 60 stations will
participate, John Thurgate Taylor, g.-m.
of 2UW, president of the Australian
Federation of Broadcasting Stations and
of the Commercial Stations Sporting
Committee. Taylor has been in radio
for 24 years, first with 2CH, Sydney, then,
in 1953, with 3AW, Melbourne ; since
1946, back in Sydney with 2UW. In
between was sandwiched war-service—
lieutenant - colonel commanding 2/5
Commando Squadron at Wau, the Mark-
TAYLOR, of 2UW
ham Valley, Lae and Salamaua; later,
as Far East liaison-officer engaged in
psychological-warfare in S.W.P.A. Alan
McGilvray, one-time captain of N.S.
Wales, will be one of the commentators
on the Tests, and the commercials hope
to line-up some English internationals
alongside him.
Herewith, Bill Douglas, of Hurll and
Douglas Pty., Ltd., structural engineers,
whose prefab.-steel skeletons support
many large concerns in N. S. Wales,
including Lithgow Small Arms Factory,
Pyrmont power-station, the new A.M.P.
building at North Sydney, and the British
Motor Corp. works at Victoria Park.
Bom in ’96, Bill tried his hand at law
and the land before his Scottish engineer-
ing blood (his father was a chief with
DOUGLAS, of Hurll and Douglas
8.1.5. N.) impelled him to join Chapmans,
of Druitt-street, as an apprentice. War
I intervened, but on his return from
France —three pips up —he joined
Alexander Stephens, Clyde shipbuilders.
Three years later ill-health —reaction to
an overdose of front-line gas—returned
him to Australia, but not before extract-
ing an M.l.Struct.E. from Glasgow
Academy. Back on his feet he joined
James Hurll and Co., gas engineers. Hurll,
intending to manufacture his own struc-
tural steel, sent Douglas, now his chief
engineer, back to London to study the
art. The co. collapsed during the
depression, and Hurll and Douglas
emerged, formed by Douglas, the name
Hurll being included to honor an old
friend. Spare-time soldiering with the St.
George Regt., War II found him
Lt.-Col. and took him to Brigadier.
Chairman of the N.S.W. Structural Steel
Association, he left recently to cast his
eye over construction methods abroad.
0 0
E. W. Gillett retires as Chancellor of
the Westralian University in March.
Perth solicitor and former Mayor of
Claremont, Gillett was the first graduate
of the University elected to its senate, of
which he has been a member for 25
years. His great achievement has been
his consistent advocacy and work for a
Uni. medical-school. Objective now
attained.
0 0
Over the years there must have been
many civilians whose work with the
Navy, like Pepys’s, has borne substantial
fruit. Definitely in that Pepys tradition,
lately retired E. E. Boutcher saw changes
in the Service as momentous as any the
diarist recorded. When Boutcher left his
office for good it was rather like one of
the fixtures at Garden Island unscrewing
itself and walking past the sentry at the
Woolloomooloo gate. Going to Garden
Island in a rowing-boat from Man-o’-War
Steps when the Royal Navy ruled the
Australian waves and Naval Establish-
ments, he saw the birth of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy in 1913, and, the following
year, spent a night shortly before War I
was officially declared awaiting news of
German shipping in the Pacific. As part
of his clerkly duties he went on a hospital-
ship with the Australian contingent to
New Guinea, was present at the German
surrender in Rabaul, then came back to
G.I. and joined the A.I.F. Served with a
field-ambulance unit in France and Bel-
gium, went back to G.I. in 1919, stayed
till 1939, transferred then to Department
of Defence Co-ordination in Melbourne,
but back in 18 months as Civil Secretary,
his position on retirement (the title has
been changed to Administrative Officer).
As chief civilian adviser and backstop to
the senior Naval authorities administering
the Sydney establishments, with a com-
prehensive knowledge of local administra-
tion and ability to interpret the many
and complicated industrial awards and
regulations, he did extremely well a job
that was no sinecure, particularly during
War 11.
o o
Owner of an easy grin, an easy mariner
and very definite ideas on the necessity for
building skyscrapers to check the low-
level sprawl uglying some Australian
cities, 25-year-old Robert Gibson lobbed
home to Brisbane after 14 months’ work-
study in Britain. Over there he worked
with the Queen’s architect, Sir Hugh
Casson, who co-designed the Festival of
Britain site and is now redesigning sec-
tions of Buckingham Palace and Windsor
Castle.
0 0
After 47 years’ absence Sir Harold
Gillies has revisited New Zealand. In
the Kaiser’s war he acquired a world
reputation as a plastic-surgeon, and at
the conference of the Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons in Christchurch
early this month he read a paper on that
subject. Known as the “Wizard of Sid-
cup,” he was requisitioned by King
Leopold of Belgium to perform facial-
restoration on him following the motor-
accident in which that monarch’s con-
sort was killed. King Christian of Den-
mark in 1924, after a shocking explosion
aboard a Danish cruiser at Copenhagen
from which many of the crew suffered
terrible injuries, sent for Gillies to
remedy facial and other disfigurements.
A sequel to this was the Royal presenta-
tion of a recreation-pavilion when Gillies,
in collaboration with two other New
Zealanders, established a hospital for
facial-treatment in England in 1939.
• 0
Saeeda, Askari Taweel:
Over in Palestine in World War I the Arab
kids used to call Robert Christian Wilson
something which sounded like “askari taweel,”
and which meant “tall soldier” —a fair-enough
monicker for the young Australian Light
Horseman who stood, roughly, 19 hands.
After the war, • Wilson decided to take-on
farming—a soldier-settler block at Merriwa
(N.S.W.). It needed a job to go with it for a
start, so he went looking for one in Brisbane.
A muck-up in trains led him to Sydney, where
he sought a job with Grazcos, now the greatest
shearing-organisation in the world, but then a
just-fledged company launched as a result of
N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association’s wishing
to bring some sort of stability to the then-
chaotic shearing-conditions.
Grazcos told him he needed a woolclasser’s
ticket if he wanted to do better than shed-
hand, so he went droving and took a
correspondence-course in classing, the lessons
being posted to him along the track. In 1921
WILSON, of Grazcos
he classed his first shed and was soon with
Grazcos, which, in practically no time, had
him out on an organising tour of the Riverina
on a rackety motor-cycle.
His lanky figure draped around the grid must
have made a considerable impression on some-
one—he was general-manager of Grazcos by
1924 and hasn’t stopped since: he was
employers’ representative at the 1.L.0. confer-
ence at San Francisco in 1948, and is a life-
member of the Employers’ Federation of
N. S. Wales; he was Director of Rural
Manpower during World War 11, earning
C.M.G.; he has sirice served on the National
Security Resources Board and the Royal Com-
mission on TV.
These days he sits in the N. S. Wales Legisla-
tive Council and is treasurer of the N.S.W.
Country party; he’s also on the boards of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, Country Broadcasting
Services, Allied Mills, Tooheys, Union Trustee
Co., and Australian Guarantee Corp.
With all that, there’s still the suggestion of
an “askari taweel” about him, and his hands
and soft voice suggest that a horse, as well
as a human, might rate him a pretty good bloke.
0 #
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 84, Albert Ernest (Hal) Stone,
one of the old school of compositor-printers.
His private Wayside Press turned-out scores of
booklets for local poets and prose-writers,
all of a high standard of craftsmanship, and
he numbered among his friends many famous
names in Australian literature.
In Hobart, at 66, Harold Bruce Bennett,
M.8.E., a Westralian who joined the Speck
railways in 1922 and became chief mechanical
engineer in 1923. Managed the department and
was chairman of the State Munitions Board
during the early war-years, and was Director
of Industrial Development from 1944 to 1953.
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), at 69, Father
Charles Wilfred Casey. A native of Welling-
ton, he studied in N.Z. before going to the
Gregorian University, Rome, in which city he
was ordained in 1911. Spent most of his
clerical life tutoring in seminaries in the
Dominion and at Villa Maria, Sydney. At his
death he was Superior of the Highden
Novitiate of the Society of Mary, Palmerston
North.


THE BIG SPLASH


ABORIGINALITIES
Queenslanders invariably stare
incredulous when I own to a culinary
liking for kangaroo and wallaby ; even the
steady-eyed westerners, their properties
teeming with ’roos, look as though I’ve
admitted to a taste for missionary!
Down in Tassie the hindquarters of a
’roo, seasoned and baked, was a real
delicacy, while the tail became soup and
the fleshy sections of the back were made
into patties. In the far north-east,
where the animals destroyed all crops
unless kept in check, it was open-season
all the year round. In other parts the
opening of the season saw an exodus
of guns and dogs, and soon the butchers’
shops displayed succulent sections
of delectable game, and you had
to be early to beat the “Sold out”
notice. Unlike in Queensland, the
skins seemed to take second place to the
carcasses.—“Rimutuka.” ,
* * * *
“Demetrius”: The old-time town-
criers have nearly all gone over the hill,
but one still exists at Winton (Q.). For
more than 30 years the familiar sound
of his bell has preluded an announce-
ment as he does the rounds. The pro-
clamation is memorised, and he has never
been known to make a mistake. Radio,
talkies and daily papers have almost
ruined his calling, but occasionally his
powerful voice can be heard broadcast-
ing news of an impromptu dance, an auc-
tion-sale, or perhaps the time and place
of a visiting politician’s policy-speech.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A “strange animal”
caught in a rabbit-trap near Busselton
(W.A.) was further described as a
“quinda, a small species of wild-pig with
a long-snouted head, small ears, and a
muscular body covered with thick
"That’s the Maori crew!”
greyish-brown bristles. It had three long,
sharp claws on each leg and a tail about
9in. long.” The annihilation of our wild-
life must be well advanced when a bandi-
coot is a news-item. The semi-official
name is quenda.
* * * *
“Pioneer Paddy”: Our New Australian
neighbor was holding a hammer as I
asked him over the fence how his new
dog was getting on. “Oh, he get on
good, but”—he held up the hammer —•
“I just to go and geev him the hiding.”
“Surely you’re not going to hit him with
that!” I exclaimed, shocked. “Oh, no,
he not been naughty,” smiled the N.A.
“It’s just that it ees so ver’ hot for heem
“Looks like he’s been betting on the dogs!”
in thees —’ow you say?—wave-heat, I
geev heem a hiding from the sun.”
* * * *
"Eureka”: Overhearing in a Lithgow
(N.S.W.) bar, “This, myxomatosis has
certainly hit Lithgow pretty badly,” I
asked, “Were the rabbits bad about this
part of the country?” “No worse than
any other part,” he told me, “but if it
hadn’t been for this myxo.-business we
would have made at least another fifty-
thousand pea-rifles at the small-arms
factory.” Makers of rabbit-traps, rabbit-
poisons and even machinery for ripping-
out rabbit-burrows must also have felt
the effect of the myxo.-war.
* * * *
“Rimutuka”: I watched our Aus-
tralian-terrier pup digging under a front-
garden shrub. Not the old dirt-flinging
business a hidden bone produces, but a
gentle scraping with one paw. Presently
the buried treasure came to light—a hen’s
egg! Pup eased it out on to the grass,
rolled it about with his nose, presumably
to free it of damp earth, then bit it
gently and with a blissful look lay down
to lick out the contents. To get it to the
chosen shrub he’d had to carry the goog
out of the fowl-run, from which he’d
pinched it, then up five terraces, two
flights of steps and a sloping path. Not
bad for a little fella.
* * * *
“R.J.F.”: Touching on how to skin
the tail of a fox, even those who can peel
the brush off without slitting it usually
knife it open when pegging-out, to avoid
flystrike. I have found it quicker to slit
the tails than hunt around for suitable
sticks ; my father can strip an unslit brush
using only his particularly strong
fingers. Stripping by using sticks isn’t as
difficult as it may appear. Whether the
tail is skinned early or late in the overall
process barely matters, so long as the
hindquarters are stripped. The tail is
slit and cleared a little, then grasped, in
the cleared part, between the index- and
middle-fingers. Two sticks about the size
of pencils are placed one on each side
of the tail and clasped into the palm, so
that, with the fingers, a four-sided prison
is made. One foot is placed" on the fox
for leverage, and, holding the sticks
tightly, the brush is forced off with a
firm, strong pull. Should the sticks slip
from cleared tail on to the skin of the
brush, tear and loss are inevitable.
* * * *
“Kelms”: From Wellington (N.Z.)
comes news of a strange animal with a
head like a sheep, but a goat’s ears and
the rudiments of horns; longer legs than
a lamb and silky hair ; no teeth. It
could be possible. Geneticists have been
trying for a sheep-goat cross for years,
and some pregnancies have occurred, but
not persisted. The wild-goat and the
wild-sheep are closely allied, the chief
differences being that the goat has no
glands in face and feet, and the males
have beards and a strong, unpleasant
odor; the sheep have glands in face and
feet, but no beards and no strong smell.
The Barbary sheep may be some sort of
a link between the two; in it the face-
and foot-glands are either rudimentary or
absent.
* * * *
“V.R. Mac”: Doubt if “most Victorian
ramblers would recognise the single pastel-
blue flower of the sundew” (“J.P.C.,”
B. 11/1/ ’56), for the simple reason that
there are no blue-flowered sundews in the
Cabbage Garden. The seven species
found in the State range in color from
the pure white of the scented-sundew,
through various shades of pink to
scarlet. Different species are found on
a wide variety of country, from the
coast to the snow-line, although they
thrive best on soil deficient in nitrogen.
Incidentally, can anyone explain why
these bloodsuckers need their transfusion
of the vital juices of insects, while other
plants can flourish on the same soil with-
out such aids?
* * * *
“Sebak”: Since I read Rachel Hen-
ning’s mention of American Creek, which
implied that the creek, which still bears
the name, must have had some connection,
with America or Americans when the
district was very young, I’ve often
pondered on the origin of the unusual
name (for that period). I’ve tracked it
down. Soon after coal was discovered
on the N.S.W. South Coast a party of
Americans arrived and began investiga-
tions around the Mount Kembla area.
Their h.q. was a camp on the creek now
crossed by the Prince’s Highway at Fig
Tree, about six miles south of Wollon-
gong. Such enterprise deserved better
fortune; they found what they sought—
kerosene-shale, but not in payable
quantities.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Deploring the decline in
numbers of topknot-pigeons, Inverell
(N.S.W.) graziers have declared New Aus-
tralians responsible; but, while admit-
tedly everything that flies is poultry to
many migrants, this verdict is a bit
inadequate. Though overlapping occurs,
our pigeons may be roughly grouped as
seed-eaters and fruit-eaters. Both groups
have suffered greatly through closer-
settlement —the one because their supply
of seeds has been reduced through over-
stocking; the other because much of the
forest-country that provided fruit and
berries has been cleared. Dense cover is
needed by most species for nesting-safety,
and the destruction of much of this has
further swung the scales against the
defenceless fowl. Bird-study takes me
about a bit, and I have formed the
opinion that in N.S.W., at least, no species
of pigeon is flourishing, save in restricted
areas, and some are approaching extinc-
tion. Our largest and loveliest pigeon,
the wompoo, is now a rare bird in this
State.
* * * *
“Asphar”: A young West Australian
bush-orphan, who can’t read or write
and doesn’t like sleeping on a bed, is mak-
ing film-history by acting in a Walt
Disney TV-film, having only discovered
TV a week before. Though 17 years old,
Scrubcat” will not travel by train, and
is mortally afraid of planes. He rode a
stock-pony 2000 miles
from Tennant Creek to
Melbourne, but it has a
disease and must be
destroyed. The team of
men he mustered with
left Melbourne without
him. His friend and
boss, “Lofty'’ Cannard,
is somewhere between
Tennant Creek and
Deniliquin, mustering,
and the discoverer of
“Scrubcat” Wait
Disney’s Melbourne
cameraman, Frank Few,
of Croydon—had pro-
mised to reunite the two
as the price of “Scrub-
cat” appearing on the
Walt Disney’s “Micky
Mouse” newsreel,
seen in America by
75,000,000 people. Shy
and reluctant to accept a chance hundreds
would clamor for, “Scrubcat” will leap
to fame overnight with his first
appearance.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Needing a bait for a lobster-
pot, a cove I know struck a muttonfish
with a iron bar. The mollusc was not
relaxed; consequently its grip on the
rock was not broken ; but the shell was
shattered. With a knife in his hand the
bait-hunter reached down to cut the flesh
out. Suddenly a fury shot up from the
deep water and ripped his middle-finger
to the bone. A green-eel can be a
ferocious creature, especially when some-
thing comes between it and a succulent
feed.
* * * *
“tJramao": Seventy-eight years ago
brook-char (in America known as
“brookies”) were imported to New
Zealand to provide anglers with an addi-
tional fish to play with. Brook-char are
beautifully marked and good to eat. A
peculiarity about them is that they can-
not exist in waters where rainbow- or
brown-trout are found. The N.Z. Wild
Life Division of the Internal Affairs De-
partment is making an exploratory expe-
dition to ascertain if the fish are in
sufficient numbers for rivers to be opened
to anglers. They’re known to have be-
come established in back-country rivers
where falls prevent trout entering.
* * * *
Two distinct types of tree
are known as the Illawarra flame-tree:
the Brachychiton dersi folia and the
Erathrina crista gallii. An attempt to
distinguish between the two by calling
one the flame and the other the coral has
not proved successful, since opinions
are just as divided over which is which.
In actual fact, the Brachychiton is the true
Illawarra flame by heritage: it is a
native tree. The Erathrina was brought
to the N.S.W. Illawarra district from the
West Indies. A Dr. Menzies introduced
it to Woodstock, which town (renowned
then for the products of its brewery)
stood near what is now Jamberoo. The
tree flourished, and being a quick-
grower and fine shade-tree was soon
sought after by dairyfarmers. Today it
would be difficult to find a farm on the
N.S.W. South Coast without one. The
native tree has darker bark, is sturdier,
and grows much higher—generally in
competition with other forest-trees. It
looks its best when, a blaze of crimsor
blossoms, it flares out from the surround-
ing green-wood high up on a wooded
mountain. “Maitri’s” flame-tree (B.
1/2/’56) was obviously one of the
imported variety—even a moderate wind-
storm will break their “punky,” brittle
timber.
WHERE NO GHOSTS WALK
Over the dunes, as daylight fails,
Acres and acres of pussy-tails.
Pussy-tail gold, pussy-tail green,
Amber and emerald, in between
The ravaged headlands that wear the whole
Of the afterglow for an aureole.
Tides of the ocean back and fill
But the pussy-tail billows run uphill
Endlessly scampering up the wide
Stairways, and down the other side.
Eastward already the ranges mark
The edges of the approachng dark;
Beneath our feet, at the wind’s sweet will,
The waves of the grass still run up hill . . .
Someone tells me that here was found
An aboriginal burial-ground—
What better place for a man to rest
Than on this cliff-top looking west,
Where the footsteps of change fall softly, it
seems,
On this place of silence and dusk and dreams,
Marking the circling centuries pass
With the rise and fall of the harvest grass,
Listening to eternity
From an eyrie beside the shouting sea.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


HERE’S a personal experience to refute
the claim that snakes cannot
hypnotise birds. Three of us were load-
ing cordwood at Exley (Q.), Carlo and
Tony lifting the logs to me on the wagon.
Removal of one of the last billets in the
bottom row —kept off the ground by be-
ing laid at right-angles to two hefty logs
—disclosed two quail sitting head-to-
tail, motionless. Under the next log, and
only a foot away from the birds, was a
14in. death-adder. Two cracks with the
whip ended the adder’s life, but did
not release the birds from its mysterious
power. With heads erect and eyes wide
open they still sat, rigid. Not until I
lifted them up and dropped them on to
the ground did something click in their
arrested sensory-mechanisms. They then
flew off. They had been quite immobile
for 20 minutes after the adder was killed.
—“Jonl.”
* * * *
“Queue”: Final word on the efficacy
of metal chains which trail from road-
tankers carting oil and petrol. Brisbane
City Council is recommending that
tankers be allowed to operate without
chains —Shell Company opining that, as
most modern concrete and bitumen roads
are poor electricity-conductors, the dang-
ling metal had proved ineffective.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: The galahs, having drunk at
the dam, were doing acrobatics on the
party-telephone line while Dad was talk-
ing on the phone to the bank-manager.
As the feathered gymnasts whirled past,
shrieking with excitement, or hung by
beak and claw from the loose line, there-
by creating static that shook Dad’s ear-
drums, he roared: “I could hear you a lot
better if only those flamin’ galahs would
get off the line!” Three distinct clicks
were then heard. A trio of ladies in the
district now don’t recognise Dad when
he passes their properties.
.* * * *
“Geep”: Last month,- W.A. clerk Gerd
von Dincklage-Schulenburg became the
first man to swim the 12-mile stretch from
Fremantle to Rottnest. His time of
9}hrs. was not fast, but part of it was
taken up in an attempt to swim down and
spear an eagle-ray. He aims soon to
better the Australian skin-diving record
of 250 ft.
* * * *
“Thark”: “Sackville” should get him-
self a better selection of dictionaries if
he can’t find the word “humpy” in any
he’s got (B. 8/2/’56). I found “humpy”
“ Whasa got there, lad—Broken 'Ill race-'oss?”
in both the Concise Oxford (1942) and
Newnes’ Reference Dictionary (1954)
thus: noun. (Australian), a hut (Native
oompi). Newnes’ further gives the noun
“hump” as “Australian, a walk with a
swag on the back; (slang) despondency,”
as well as the verb to hump “Australian,
to shoulder or carry on the back.” The
latter’s 0.K., but I don’t think I’ve ever
heard the noun hump used, either for a
walkabout or a fit of the sulks. But if I
ever get a hump, I’ll go on a hump, and
I’ll hump me bluey till I find a comfy
humpy to dump me lumpy swag. By the
way, the word bluey isn’t in either of
these dictionaries I mentioned ; anyone
know its derivation?
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: A pair of kookaburras
were the most punctual guests we ever
entertained. Every day for weeks, dead
on time, they’d arrive in the backyard
for their afternoon-feed of meat. Then,
one day, they weren’t there.
we were having tea, when they alighted
on the window-sill in a great flurry.
Offering no apology, they raucously
demanded their belated repast. Until
we left the district, months later, the
backyard-timetable was never broken
again.
* * * *
“Bo”: The vet. to whom we took the
pup for treatment for an eye-injury
happened to mention that he had not long
before treated a couple of show-dogs for
distemper—they had been on the very
table, in fact, that the pup was then
inhabiting. Yes, perhaps it would be as
well if we had the pup given a shot for
immunity, though he’d have to be given
the full works again in a matter of weeks.
Extra cost, one-guinea. Nice work if
you can get it!
* * * *
“Maida”: Rockmelons can be used
in many ways. For dessert, pour sherry
into the scooped-out melon, and top-up
with jelly, ice-cream or chopped fruit.
Pickle with walnuts. Use as a base for
fruit-salad. Set jelly in the halves. Give
the chopped-up skins and the seeds to
the fowls. Dry the scooped-out halves;
coat with paint, make into miniature
hanging-baskets, and plant two nastur-
tium-seeds. Attractive and gay for
indoors.
* * * *
“Aub.”: At a comfortable 35 my
neighbor travelled north near Bowral
(N.S.W.). A blowout on the right-hand
front wheel, another car going south at
40, and all four passengers were taken
to hospital, both cars very badly dam-
aged. Later inspection showed a bullet-
hole through the right-hand headlamp
and the mudguard, and it is reasonable
to assume it caused the accident. It
might have been a stray. But hoodlums
who last year amused themselves shoot-
ing at cows might be finding cars and
aeroplanes more exciting targets.
NIGHT, LAKE MACQUARIE
Night and the calmness only night can make
Have fallen on Toronto, and the lake
Sleeps in a crinkled skunk-skin: soft and black,
Marked by a silver moonstreak down its back.
The town is silent, everything is still
(Save where the moon moves shadows on the
hill),
As though all life began a midnight stroll
And tumbled, yawning, down a rabbit-hole.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
WESTERN PIGGERIES, LTD.
WE’RE a country-bred family, and
when Dad announced dramatically
“I’m buying a car. It’s a good buy ;
knocked about a bit, but we’ll soon fix it
up between us,” my brother Ben and
I might have been expected to rejoice.
We didn’t.
We knew all about Dad’s after-work
enterprises from sad experience; the
enthusiasm he brought to bear in the
initial stages, the gradual waning of
effort, the eventual folding-up of the
project. We were the lackeys, Ben and
I, the slaves of our El Dorado-seeking,
visionary male parent,
We could recollect vividly the one-
time poultry-keeping, homing-pigeons,
bull-terrier breeding, sweet-making (we
got pretty sick on this job). All were
extra-time projects, designed, with co-
operative endeavor, to amass our joint
family-fortune rapidly. They were
costly, inglorious failures,
And now, a motor-car! What for?
Dad told us: “It’s a ute. Got a bit
“Parading with only six-hundred revs—you re regimentally undressed!
of age on her. We’ll go out in spare time
and catch wild-pigs. Bloke at the dehy-
dration-works says he’ll buy ’em, two-
quid a head. All profit, no overhead,
just the car. Could even start a regis-
tered business; you boys could take
over once we got on our feet. Could
call it Western Queensland Piggeries,
Ltd.”
I shuddered weakly. Wild-pigs!
Cattle-dogs, I thought-—you need chttle-
dogs to catch wild-pigs ; they catch them
by the ear. I said nothing. The outlook
was grim enough without having to help
breed cattle-dogs.
“How much will the car cost?” Mum
asked faintly.
“Only fifty-quid,” said the new busi-
nessman. “Bloke’s bringing her round
to-morrow.”
Visions of what £5O would buy in the
way of motor-cars haunted me that
night. Next day the “bomb” arrived,
a 1924 4-cylinder job (“bit of age on her”
—just 30 years of it!) —50 quid’s-worth
of creaking-wheeled enigma at the end of
a tow-rope. We pushed her into the
yard, and the vendor left in nervous
haste.
Leisure and recreation also departed
from our lives. We became shackled to
an ancient bit of machinery that devoured
time and money as well as energy.
Presently the balance-sheet read: Bomb,
£5O; battery, £9; ignition-points, 12s.
6d.; distributor-cap and -rotor, 235. 6d.;
spark-plugs, high-tension wiring and
fittings, 305.; petrol and oil, 325.;
radiator-hose and clips, 125.; earth-wire,
55.; switch, 3s. 6d.; welding and re-
shaping cranking-dog and fitting new
crank-handle pin, 325.; sundry nuts,
bolts, washers, split-pins, etc., £3 ; total-
to-date, £69 10s. 6d. And still she
wouldn’t go!
With Dad at the controls and half of
“between us” on the crank-handle, it
was: “Choke her again! ” ; “Try her
now!”; or, “She’s flooded again; have
to take the plugs out!”; “No good?
Well, I’ll close-up the points a bit.”
But nothing was any good. At last,
more debit. To mechanic’s time spent
locating and rectifying fault, £1 25.; one
condenser, 12s. 6d.; £7l 4s. 6d. gone.
And the bomb went, too —a deafening
clatter of many blacksmiths’ hammers on
ringing anvils, in the midst of which, how-
ever, we made a further discovery: no
silencer. From the local tinsmith, to
making silencer, £5 ; £76 4s. 6d. in the
red!
Life for us had become a miseiy; we
slept fitfully, dreaming of split-pins,
screws and nuts, monsters in grotesque
form holding us in a vicelike grip. We
suffered indigestion from bolting our
meals, and came to dread our father’s
voice: “Here a minute! ” ; “Bring us the
multi-grips! ” ; “Hold this nut; it’s a bit
awkward! ” ; “Give her a pulj-up now! ”
And not a pig in the pen yet.
“Be a good idea if we got a job rousey-
ing,” Ben suggested.
We took our dream-bus out for a trial-
run, and a wheel collapsed. “We’ll have
to pack ’em all,” was the frightful ver-
dict.
Master and serfs slaved for nearly
a week and couldn’t pack one ; then took
the jumbled mess to the now-familiar
mechanic.
“Ah, yes, a bit tricky, these old-time
wheels, unless you know about the
spokes. Tapered two different ways.
Shoulda packed ’em at the rim, too, not
the hub. Easy with tin-washers.”
He did the job, and sold us eight new
hub-bolts, £3 the lot; £79 4s. 6d. We
packed the other three ourselves ; took
us three weeks; it wasn’t easy, and they
weren’t good jobs.
“You want a valve-grind, too,” our
wheelwright-mechanic had advised. “She
hasn’t got much compression.”
So the head came off, and its
mechanical condition was such as to
cause great concern to the new enterprise.
More garage. To cutting valve-seats and
fitting new inserts, fitting new valve-
guides, and valves, springs, and cotters,
£l5 ; progressive total, £94 4s. 6d.
We were doing our own cooking now,
and were always hungry. Mum had
gone arouhd for weeks with a far-
away look in her eyes, and eventually had
announced: “I think I’ll go and see
Mother in Bundaberg.” She went, and
wouldn’t come back. Every letter from
her concluded: “Is the car finished yet?”
Although we didn’t know it, the answer
was not too far distant.
Once more we were ready for the road,
when Dad wailed: “The oil-gauge isn’t
working.” Then brightly: “But it might
only be an air-lock.” He sucked at a
pipe and swallowed a lot of oil; it
wasn’t an air-lock; work ceased for the
day. “The sump’ll have to come off,”
was the ultimatum.
It came off. Mixed with the oil re-
maining in the bottom were lumps of
carbon, broken split-pins, pieces of cast-
iron and whitish lumps of soft metal.
“There’s a big-end gone, and it looks
like a cracked piston, too,” came from
underneath. “That’s what’s making her
knock!”
We said nothing ;we couldn’t! And
then our O.C. dropped the big hunger:
“She’ll have to be rebored!” Deadly
silence. Then, an afterthought: “She’ll
want the crankshaft reground and new
bearing-metals, too.” But for the first
time the sole director-elect of Western
Queensland Piggeries, Ltd., acknowledged
caution as his mate. “We’ll send for a
quote.”
It came. Cost of reboring block,
supplying and fitting pistons, rings,
gudgeon-pins and bushes, regrinding
crankshaft, remetalling mains and big-
ends on short motor, £75 6s. 6d., freight
extra.
“I don’t know what a short motor is,
but it looks as if we’re done. We’ll have
to let her go; there’s the diff. and gear-
box yet,” said our leader.
“And,” I thought lovingly, “there’s
the leaky radiator, the fierce cone-
clutch, the dim headlights, the tyres, the
silent self-starter, the missing hood and
windscreen, the wobbly steering and the
complete absence of brakes.”
And after all that, the law—to wit,
£l5, in the form of registration and
driver’s licence.
We’d spent nearly a hundred-smackers
and innumerable hours of sweaty toil,
and grown ragged and thin, motherless
and sleepless, in the process of attempt-
ing to build-up a unique undertaking.
We dipped our greasy lids, Dad and
Ben and I, to the mechanical ruin in our
backyard, and opened our tired arms
with pleasure to defeat. Vale Western
Queensland Piggeries, Ltd.!
We wired Mumi “Come home. Car
finished.”
QUO VADIS.


THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR
★ RECORD NEW BUSINESS
* MARKED INCREASE IN BONUSES
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 86th ANNUAL REPORT:
NEW ASSURANCES, £66,323,373.
Th is record total of new business was almost £17,000,000
greater than the previous year's figure the largest
increase in the Association's history.
-jAf INTEREST RATE INCREASED.
Average rate of interest earned on Assurance Fund
increased by 3/1 d. per cent, to £4/13/3 per cent. the
highest rate for over 20 years.
•fa ASSURANCE FUND NOW OVER £108,000,000.
During the year the Assurance Fund increased by more
than £8,000,000, and at 30th September, 1955, amounted
to £108,846,915.
INCREASED BONUS RATES.
As a result of the Association's continued progress,
bonuses for 1955 will in general be substantially higher
than those allotted for the previous year.
r RESULTS FOR 86 YEARS—IB69 to 1955
J Total Payments to Policyholders £131,694,135 j
j Assurances in Force £410,069,936 1
J, Assurance Fund £108,846,915 ;
The Association transacts Ordinary Department business only,
including Staff Superannuation and Group. The Association i§
purely mutual, and all profits belong to Policyholders alon§,
There are NO shareholders.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869 (Inc. in Vic.)
VICTORIA:
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
81 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
-350 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
91 King William Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA:
119 Macquarie Street, Hobart,
■
Custom
NEW ZEALAND:
House Quay, Wellinc
Business. Rollery.etc
MARKET MOVES
nrHE new 4f per cent, local-
government rate, especially
when coupled with the shorter
five-year term, seems to be
meeting with a cordial public
reception. Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide have all taken
kindly to the new terms, prompt
subscriptions being the order of
the day.
This suggests that the next
Commonwealth loan may not
carry a higher rate, even though
it may be put out at a slight
discount, or offer other
inducements.
In the longer term, higher
interest-rates, including over-
draft charges, seem to be coming,
The trend is world-wide. But
what securities will be princi-
pally affected has yet to be
determined. It may be taken
for granted that a tight hold
will be kept on rates offered on
Consols, which have the leverage
of being trustee securities, and
therefore a “must” for some
investors. Their tax-rebate is
also attractive to others.
The Australian sharemarkets
have accepted overseas economic
developments without much
concern during the past few
weeks. Share-prices remain
fairly steady, on the whole, the
weakening of one leader usually
being offset by the strengthening
of another. Particular stocks
have had special support —the
rise of Davis Gelatine to 335. 6d.,
notwithstanding the compara-
tively low interim div., was a
case in point, though it reacted
to 31s. later. In the reverse
direction, Yarra Falls fell to
285., then recovered to 30s.
Concerns that have had real
trouble have had erratic, specu-
lative support. But, on indexes,
the level of the market has been
fairly steady since the new year
began.
Still, the traditional testing-
period of the sharemarket has
yet to come. March and April
are usually difficult months,
partly because of the falling-due
of taxation-assessments. Accord-
ing to Treasury
£430 million of income-tax must
be paid between January and
June this year, compared with
£l4B million actually collected
during the July - December
period.
The sharemarket dropped its
price for Coote and Jorgenson
shares by about Is. 6d. (to
10s. 6d.) on announcement of a
loss of £537,991, carrying
accumulated losses up to
£735,834, compared with a paid
capital of £1,633,000. Latest
loss (which was not really a
shock) includes losses on stocks
and other writings-off. Mr.
B. O. Smith (who is chairman
in this case!) says that the
current year has also shown
losses. Profit-earning will
depend on how soon manu-
facturers of motor-vehicles get
into production in Australia and
require original gear and trans-
missions, in which C. and J.
specialise. Negotiations are
continuing with the Borg-
Warner Corp., U.S.A.
British Tobacco (Ardath,
Capstan, Craven A, etc.) says
that since new competition
entered the field it has increased
its share of the “smokes”
market. Its cigarette-sales have
increased by a third. It has
been noticed by smokers that
competition has been accom-
panied by greater availability of
B.T. lines. Officially, the co.
says that it is hoped that its
lines will be available “at call”
before the end of this year.
Big new share-issues on the
way are Masonite, one for one
at par (2,187,456 at 10s. each),
to those registered on March 15 ;
Woolworths, one for four at par
(4,283,649 of 55.) on May 15 ;
A. G. Sims, one for two at par
(1,088,000 of 55.) on March 5;
and Larke, Hoskins, one for
three (266,666 of £1 each) on
March 9.
Masonite in particular will be
worth watching for the chance
of bargains. A 10 p.c. div. is
tipped on the new capital until
the new board-factory at Eildon
(Vic.) is completed. The
deferred shares have now been
converted into ords.
W. E. Bird, Ltd.
IF unsecured creditors
(£154,479) will accept 12s. 6d.
in the £, Myer Emporium, Mel-
bourne, is again prepared to pay
a shilling a share for scrip in
W. E. Bird, Ltd., the Sydney im-
porter and wholesaler which
recently shocked the Sydney
financial world by the extent of
its stock-overvaluation.
Myer’s offer to guarantee the
overdraft (£173,964 on January
10), and the offer to shareholders
is subject to 90 p.c. acceptance
by shareholders.
Mr. B. O. Smith, the receiver,
said that Myer’s were prepared
to pay £299,922 for the business,
including £173,964 overdraft
guarantee, £96,553 to unsecured
creditors, and £ll,OOO for the
220,000 £1 shares.
Mr. Smith added it was
obvious that unless the offer was
accepted, the shares in W. E.
Bird would have no value, and
unsecured creditors could not
receive so substantial a distri-
bution.
Shareholders at the meeting
resolved to accept the offer, and
directed the board to recommend
the offer to shareholders. The
meeting also decided not to put
a motion seeking police investi-
gation of the company.
Mr. Smith said that the co.’s
trouble was due to the very sub-
stantial fall in business in 1951-
52, when W. E. Bird, Ltd., didn’t
face-up to the position.
It had overbought in the
1950-1951 sellers’ market, and
was caught with huge stocks
when retailers cancelled their
orders in the 1951-52 crash.
B.M.C. Motor-car Plans
nrHE British Motor Corpora-
tion (Aust.), Ltd., has plans
to capture a large part of the
Australian motor-vehicle market
with Australian-made cars and
trucks. Its aims were outlined
in Sydney by Sir Leonard Lord
on February 20.
In 1951, when the British
Motor Corp. was formed in the
U.K., 20 companies came under
its banner, the principal subsidi-
aries being the Austin, Morris,
Wolseley, Riley, Morris-Com-
mercial, M.G. and Nuffield
Tractor concerns. That year pro-
duction was 8000 motor-vehicles
each week. Last year the figure
had risen to 10,000, and later
this year may reach 12,500.
In Britain alone, 45 per cent,
of all cars on the road have been
made in B.M.C. factories. A
similar target is set for
Australia.
/ In 1939, combined Austin-Nuf-
field sales in Australia amounted
to 7800 vehicles for the year. In
1955, 47,000 new B.M.C. (Aust.)
vehicles were sold (the maximum
permitted by import-controls),
representing 20 p.c. of all Aus-
tralian registrations and 38 per
cent, of all British vehicles
registered.
A major expansion of manu-
facturing facilities is now con-
templated.
New buildings and plant now
under construction involve a
capital expenditure of £5 mil-
lion. When this work is com-
pleted, Australian factories and
plant will be worth over £lO
million.
Annual Australian production
of Austin and Nuffield vehicles
will reach a minimum of 50,000.
Today, with the exception of
a few completely imported
models, all B.M.C. vehicles are
received from England in c.k.d.
(completely knocked - down)
form. The assembling, painting
and trimming is carried out in
one or other of the B.M.C. fac-
tories or in sub-contractors’
plants.
Present plans embrace the
complete manufacture of motor-
vehicles in Australia, so that
B.M.C. will become a more-or-
less self-contained manufacturing
business.
Most of this developmental
work of B.M.C. (Aust.) is taking
place at the plants at Victoria
Park (Sydney), Fishermen’s
Bend (Melbourne), and Dudley-
street, West Melbourne.
Hie Victoria Park plant now
handles the complete assembly
of most of the Morris output in
Australia. The production-rate
is three times that originally
planned. The paint - machine
was the first of the modern syn-
thetic type in the Southern
Hemisphere.
The new engine-factory will
produce 1000 units a week.
This plant is based on the Austin
plant at Longbridge, England,
which manufactures the B.M.C.
engines, and which incorporates
many of the most advanced
examples of automation in in-
dustry yet devised.
Rough Range and Sumatra
pjROM L. Owen: Ever since
the physical and chemical
characteristics of the Rough
Range crude-oil were made
known, it has been consistently
maintained on this page that
that oil was the product of
migration through very restricted
channels and through strata
possessing special chemical and
physical properties. It has also
been consistently maintained
that the search for a reservoir of
commercial dimensions, from
which the sealed' seepage en-
countered at Rough Range might
have been derived, required an
exploratory , technique differing
greatly from that employed in
the development of normal oil-
fields.
This hypothesis was received
rather coldly by those who
guided the search for oil at
Rough Range until seven dry
holes (Rough Range wells Nos.
2-8 inclusive) conformed y/ith
the predictions made and raised
doubts as to the applicability of
normal developmental technique
to the Rough Range structure.
These doubts were confirmed by
the results from Rough Range
No. 9 well, and it was, rather
grudgingly, admitted that the
Rough Range “show” might
have been the result of seepage
up fault-zones. An intensified
geophysical programme was then
initiated with the object of get-
ting enlightenment as to the
obviously misinterpreted geo-
logical history and structure of
the Carnarvon Basin, of which
Rough Range is an integral unit.
One of the reasons advanced
for doubting the migratory
nature of the Rough Range
crude, at an early press confer-
ence called by Wapet, was the
fact that a crude of similar
characteristics had been obtained
in commercial quantities in
Sumatra, but I pointed out at
that conference that —although
a few examples of reservoirs, of
post-Devonian age, have pro-
duced commercial quantities of
“asphalt”-free petroleum the
vast majority of such pools did
not return any profit on their
exploitation-costs unless special
development - schemes were
adopted. In many cases, high
initial yields were followed in a
few days by exhaustion.
The migratory nature of the
Rough Range crude is now
fairly generally accepted by
.experienced oil-men, and
optimism with reference to its
commercial possibilities has been
buttressed by the visiting chair-
man of Caltex, who pointed out,
in Perth recently, that it took
investigations extending over
years and an exp endi t u r e
amounting to 58-million dollars
before payable oil-deposits were
found in Sumatra.
{Continued on next page)


Fuith In the
Future
Every year when the rains come down from
the North we are reminded of the age-old challenge
of the season.
When waters are controlled the rain is liquid
wealth; it is only when they spill unchecked across
the countryside that they bring destruction and loss.
Australia has been having a remarkable run of
bountiful seasons. The richness that has sprung
from them far outweighs the losses incurred in
unfortunate floods.
And that is said without complacency, for I
realise that the effects of flood go beyond material
damage and are most dearly paid for in human
suffering.
But the floods that come to Australia are not
to be compared in size and severity with those, for
example, along the great watercourses of Asia.
Asia’s battle is one in which the issue is food
or famine for hundreds of millions. A large share
of the United Nations’ technical assistance
programme in the East is being devoted to the
mitigation of floods.
Nor is our problem comparable with that of
North and South America, where big earth-moving
units have been brought in to build dams, and in
some cases actually to change the courses of unruly
rivers.
However, we mustn’t under-estimate the task
that lies ahead in this way for Australia. We have
a huge country in which the rainfall varies from
an average of 187 inches a year at Tully, North
Queensland, to an average of from four to six inches
a year in an area of 180,000 square miles
surrounding Lake Eyre. At Alice Springs where
we have our Research Reserves the annual rainfall
is eleven inches.
The rains will come and go, and rivers will rise
and fall, so long as the earth turns on its axis.
And it is for us to see, as an essential part
of the Australian effort, that everything possible
is done to hold back the waters, and that we store
as much of the surplus as we can.
//
ee*
y
PI-
Good Reward
People lose money every day—in (me month
there were 47 advertisements in one morn-
ing daily newspaper offering rewards for
the return of money lost in wallets, purses,
and hand-bags. The amounts lost varied
from “a large sum” and “five-pound notes” to
“four weeks’ holiday-pay”, and the rewards
offered ranged from “good” to “generous”.
The way to avoid losing “large sums”
of money is not to carry them, and you can
do this if you make a practice of paying by
cheque. A cheque account with the Bank
of New South Wales is simple, safe, and
convenient.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
★ Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST AND LARGEST TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOBATID IK NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5549C
That statement, naturally,
raises the question as to what
extent the search could have
been shortened, and by how
many millions the expenditure
could have been reduced, had
the migratory derivation of the
Sumatran oil been recognised
in the early exploratory stages,
Results from field-work on
migratory, asphalt -free
P°°l s > which enabled the dis-
tion and extent of migration to
he determined in some areas of
South America, have been avail-
able for more than a quarter of
a
The similarity between the
Rou gh Range and the Wilkatana
(Santos) crudes has already been
remarked upon (B. 1/2/ 56), and
k is surprising to learn that, at
£e latter-named locality, the
diamond-grid developmental
technique which would be
warranted only had the original
strike of oil given promise of
commercial production—is being
employed in an attempt to extend
what, from press reports, ap-
P ear S, to be a minor arrestment
of a migratory petroleum. -
(Finance continued on page 24)
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
A/f R. HAROLD MAC-
MILLAN, in his first public
statement as Chancellor of the
Exchequer, has diagnosed our
economic ills with the same
graphic use of phrase as his pre-
decessor.
Likening the whole problem to
that of an overloaded electric
circuit in imminent danger of
blowing a fuse he said: “Soon
I shall have to make up my mind
which plugs to pull out How
much difference they will make
to our comfort will depend in
part on whether other people,
besides the Government, have
pulled out some of the plugs
which only they can control. The
Government will give its
lead. But success will depend on
how far everyone plays the
game.”
No one quarrels with the
Chancellor’s succinct analysis,
But the intelligent and by no
means disinterested layman will
wonder whether the subsequent
lifting of the Bank-rate to p.c.
and the further raising of mini-
mum hire-purchase deposits con-
stitute the extent of remedial
action.
Presumably, further action will
be taken in the April Budget and
it will be severe. Or will it?
There have been so many of
these persuasive warnings and
eloquent exhortations, keying us
up and leading us to prepare for
a shuddering recoil on learning
how determinedly the Govern-
ment of the day meant business,
In the event, the medicine has
invariably proved to be mild
and not too ill-tasting and the
prognosis optimistic but vague.
The bank chairmen have all
had their say and given their
pronouncements, the chief of
which was to plead for a sub-
stantial reduction in Govem-
ment spending. And it was ex-
pected that the supplementary
Estimates would reflect the new
Chancellor’s firm sense of pur-
pose. The Treasury has caused
the first shock quite the
opposite of that expected by
coming out with 65 estimates
for £64 million net, including
an extra £2O million for civil-
service pay-increases that weren’t
even allowed for in last April’s
Budget, a further £8 million for
Health Service prescriptions and
another £9 million for research
at the Ministry of Supply.
Which suggests, maybe, that
the Treasury is pulling out stops,
not plugs.
Touchline View
The Chancellor’s sporting
analogy prompts these questions.
What is this game we are all
playing? Has it any rules and,
if so, are they being observed?
His implication is that if the
five groups he mentioned as most
responsible for continued in-
flation “play the game” our
troubles will be over. But will
they play the game? Are they,
indeed, bound by any such
obligation?
So far as Government spend-
ing is concerned, it remains for
the captain to give a lead.
As to restraint in industrial
investment, the object of a go-
ahead concern in an expanding
economy surely is to prosper. Its
investment is for the long-term
good and the function of the
Government is to provide a
favorable economic background.
Next, restraint in the distribu-
tion of profits. This is already
operative, partly because of high
taxation and partly because of
the uncertain and unpredictable
future. And it has developed
into a very handy political
slogan. But without inflation
equities would be steadier and
capital-appreciation of less con-
sequence.
It is hardly realistic to imagine
that any form of exhortation will
have any effect upon the claims
for wage- and salary-increases.
Apart from heavy taxation and
the rising cost of living, the
machinery for presenting them is
both highly geared and well
lubricated. Moreover, the indus-
tries that are doing well are ready
to grant them. The trouble arises
in the less-thriving concerns, in
the nationalised industries and,
generally, among the “have-
nots.”
Lastly, it is no less futile to
appeal to people’s sporting in-
stincts over personal spending.
Wisely or not, the new estate in
post-war Britain intends to get
the best out of life. That may
mean television-sets, lots of ex-
pensive gadgets, holidays abroad,
hire-purchase contracts the
very last word in material cosi-
ness and not a thought for the
future —but it is a way of life
that, once experienced, will not
lightly be given up.
In sum, no referee’s whistle
can effect a standstill and no
amount of exhortation can make
one jot of difference. The captain
will have to act, and act firmly.
Arid Theatre
The drama is in low water.
Apart from revivals, there are
only three plays in London
capable of firing the imagination
of the discerning playgoer into
co-operation. “Separate Tables,”
now well into its second year,
is a perfection of craftsmanship
and sensitive acting rather than
of original thought. “The Strong
Are Lonely” is powerfully evoca-
tive though hardly distinguished
by the acting and production ;
moreover, it is a translation.
“Waiting For Godot,” Samuel
Beckett’s rambling oddity about
the hopelessness of two tramps,
enjoys a certain long-haired
notoriety but left many of us
bored with its emptiness and
nauseated by its purposeless
cruelty.
This play at least has the
distinction —a rare one nowa-
days—of having graduated from
a Little Theatre, the Arts, to
which one turns almost in despair
for something intellectually
stimulating, something defiantly
experimental, something different
from the safe-playing, lowest
common multiple of the commer-
cial theatre.
Since there is no formula for
artistic success, much that is in-
different goes with a little that is
superb. Yet every now and then,
as in “South,” the most time-
worn can forget that he is
sitting in a theatre.
The current production,
“Darkling Child,” is the first
original play of a young poet,
W. S. Merwin, and has some-
thing in common with Amanda
M’Kitrick Ros’s works.
It is the best bad play ever
witnessed. Original and full of
ideas it most certainly is, but
grossly overwritten.
The daughter of a Royalist
hearty is torn between several
f orces: her possessive father,
witchcraft, Puritanism, religious
mania ( pro bably of sexual deri-
V ation) and the flesh of a hand-
some but forbidding preacher.
Her father, after locking her out,
extracts a promise that she will
no t attend the meetings during
bis lifetime So she noisons him
fn cold blood and to our fell
v j ew She is arrested but released
some months later. The preacher
accepts her only to run away
w hen she confesses the crime,
§ 0 she returns to witchcraft.
nnn nrtnnitv k missed to
wr j n „ the withers. When the
father t with a pi ece of rope
,j n a barn tbat g b s t e ns with
murderous implements) he shapes
it into a noose . There is an im-
p ii ca tion of incest The old
detainer a Catholic wisecracks
a t the father’s coffin while slicing
tbe bam daug hter is
Hramaticaily arrested when the
wake is at its he ight. And the
aut b or injects besides comic
relief of excruc l a ting painfulness,
an occasional shaft of peremp-
t imagery Yet he does con-
tr j ve to c hill the spine severely
anc j mo re than once. The
poisoning scene, up to the onset
Q £ stomach pains and the
py ram us-like death is gripping,
terrific drama. ’ ’
well-dressed revival of
S b aw ’s “Misalliance” is at the
Lyric, Hammersmith. The
players do their best to bring life
and interest to the platitudinous
first half, suggesting by their
histrionic resources that they are
engaged in weekly repertory. It
is an outdated play, unworthy of
exhumation. Yet the second part,
bourgeois Wilde, gives them
better opportunities. Shaw’s
cracks at the England of 1910,
with new-rich parents failing to
understand their children and
with unconventional goings-on,
seem now quite without signifi-
cance. But the play is redeemed
to some extent by the brilliant
comic touches and notably by
the genuine pathos of Donald
Pleasence as the housebreaker-
assassin with a grievance,


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
«
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker. -
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,’’ be posted free to you.
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
3S-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD.
Yice-Chairman.
S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
nrHE National, second in size among
A Australia’s big five mutual-life
offices, claims to be second to none
in the service and benefits it offers its
policyholders. It is proud, and rightly so,
of the fact that it was the first ever to
apply the surrender-value of policies to
payment of premiums to prevent policy-
lapses.
Latest accounts furnish fresh evidence
of continued progress in all those matters
upon which soundness, security and
ability to pay good rates of bonuses to
policyholders depend. Features are (1)
a record amount of hew business, (2)
growth of surplus available for division
among policyholders, (3) substantial in-
crease in the rates of bonus paid, (4)
further strengthening of actuarial and
other reserves, (5) continued improvement
in the rate of interest earned, (6) tight
hold upon controllable outgoings, and
(7) a sound and well-balanced investment-
portfolio.
The amount of new business written
has more than doubled over the last five
years, due to inflation, growth of popula-
tion and growing recognition of the im-
portance of insurance in the social
structure:
, Year to Sept. 30
New business— 1950. 1954. 1955.
Policies .. 53,406 57,318 61,872
Amount .. £31,513,405 £49,502,799 £66,323,373
Total income.. 11,012,057 16,101,018 18,019,906
Total assets .. 82,409,152 107,708,457 116,997,240
Two important factors behind the leap
of £16,820,574 (33.9 p.c.) in last term’s
record new business figure were con-
tinued growth of group-assurance as a
means of industrial superannuation and
the life-cover associated with home-pur-
chase, which the co. has done much to
assist both by direct mortgages and
through the Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society, in which its sharehold-
ing stands in the books at £2,397,566.
Altogether the co. has nearly £21,000,000
invested in housing loans; an example
of the multiple benefits of life-assurance.
The year’s total income was a record
£18,019,906 (up £1,918,888), of which
£13,597,354 (up £1,460,618) was premiums
and £4,422,552 (up £458,270) net interest,
rents, etc.:
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 13,599,448 5,412,564 1,691,1191
Written off assets, £155,000 .. . ...
Exchange adjustment, £24,042.. "
To contingencies res., £650,000
1953.. 14,663,089 5,788,347 1,797,657'
Written off assets, £59,346 .. ■ 6,768,163
Exchange adjustment, £249,576 J
1954.. 16,101,018 6,432,307 1,931,673'
Written off assets, £47,812 .. ■ 7,341,911
. Exchange adjustment, £347,315
From tax reserve, £150,000
1955. .18,019,906 7,077,431 2,121,855
Written off assets, £60,660 .. 8,409,960
Exchange adjustment, £200,000..
To contingencies res., £300,000..
* Includes licences, fees and contribution to staff
fund, etc.
Including £150,000 transferred from tax-
reserve, and after paying all legitimate
claims and exes., as well as writing
£60,660 off the book-value of assets, allow-
ing £200,000 for exchange-adjustment
and sending £300,000 to the contingency
reserve, £8,409,960 (up £1,068,049) was
added to the assurance fund, raising it to
£108,846,915. It had the support and
assistance of £4,105,061 of contingency
and other reserve, which also belongs to
policyholders, tbpre being no share-
holders.
Including £279,101 brought forward,
total divisible surplus for the three years
to September 30, 1955, was £8,603,885
(up £2,635,794), of which £8,101,942 (up
£3,062,958) was distributed as bonuses
among policyholders:
t Triennial Valuation —^
30/9/’49| SO/9/’52. 30/9/’55.
Brought forward.. £500,000 £258,622 £279,101
Total surplus .. 4,468,713 5,709,469 8,324,784
Appropriation—
Bonuses .. 3,860,091 5,038,984 8,101,942
Coating, reserve .. 750,000 650,000 300,000
Tax reserve .. 100,000
Carried forward .. 258,622 279,107 201,949
The divisible surplus for the year to Sep-
tember 30 last was £3,443,949, of which
£3,242,000 was distributed in compound
reversionary bonuses amounting to
£5,211,000. The new bonus-rates were
generally about 20 p.c. higher than those
for the previous year, when allot-
ments were on the plain reversionary
system, or additions to the sum assured
in relation to the years a policy was in
force. Under the compound system the
additions are to the sum assured plus
previous bonuses. The advantage of this
system is that the older policies, whose
larger reserves contribute most to the
interest-profit, get a little more benefit,
though the practical difference between
the two systems is not very great.
The chief source of surplus, or profit
—measure of which is the excess of the
assurance fund over actuarial liabilities
under policies—is the difference between
the rate of interest actually earned and
that assumed in calculating policy lia-
bilities. Last term the net rate of interest
earned (after deducting taxes) on the
mean fund was £4 6s. 4d. p.c. (up
2s. 9d. p.c.), best for many years. The
rate used in the valuation was 2\ p.c.
So there is a pleasing and widening mar-
gin there, which looks like continuing
to increase, for the current term at any
rate. Another pleasing feature is
that exes, took only 11.76 p.c. of total in-
come as against 11.93 p.c. and 12.12 p.c.
for the two preceding years.
It is thus plain that bonuses are the
result of efficient management and wise
investment of the funds, which are in this
form:
i 1954 N 1965 s
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 3,539,607 3.3 4,088,014 3.5
Govt, securities* 50,375,965 46.8 51,255,970 43.8
Debentures .. 3,478,552 3.2 5,484,314 4.7
Mortgages .. 34,525,763 32.1 39,410,499 33.7
Deposits building
society . . 1,613,000 1.5 1,613,000 1.4
Loans on policies 5,450,136 5.0 5,855,571 5.0
Shares other cos. 6,416,591 6.0 6,869,365 6.8
Other assets .. 2,308,843 2.1 2,420,507 2.1
Total assets. .107,708,457 100.0 116,997,240 100.0
Liabilitiest .. 3,294,110 4,045,264
Net assets ..104,414,347 112,951,976
* Includes semi-Govemment loans, etc.
f Excluding liabilities under policies.
The important thing about assets in a
balance-sheet is whether they are worth
the figures at which they appear. On
this score policyholders need have no
concern. And the year’s net additions of
£1,880,005 to Government securities,
£2,005,762 to debentures and £4,884,736
to mortgages augur well for the future.
Herald & Weekly Times (Melb.)
nrHE consistently progressive record of
H. and W.T., Australia’s largest pub-
lishing house, was carried a stage further
last term. The two most important
developments were purchase of 98 p.c. of
the issued ord. shares in the Telegraph
Newspaper Co. (Brisbane), and formation
of a new subsidiary, Herald-Sun T.V.
Pty., which is one of the two commercial
stations licensed (in April, 1955) to
operate TV in Melbourne.
The Telegraph deal has given the co.,
which already owns Queensland News-
papers Pty., publishers of the “Courier-
Mail” and “Sunday Mail,” virtually a
monopoly of the morning and evening
newspaper field in Brisbane. The trans-
action involved a total of £371,773, of
which £146,029 was in f.-p. ss. ord.
shares and £225,744 cash. The Tele-
graph’s paid capital was £572,550 in
200,000 6 p.c. redeemable prefs. (not
acquired) and 292,481 A ords. and 80,069
B ords. The A ords., which had a net
tangible backing of 375., received two
f.-p. ss. ords., plus 10s. cash, for each
£1 share held, and the B ords. 20s. cash
for each of their £1 shares.
At September 30 last over 98
p.c. of the two classes of scrip
had been acquired. The Telegraph
profit for the year to September
30, 1954, was £47,203, or enough to pay
its pref. div. and show 9.4 p.c. on total
purchase price, or 15.6 p.c. on the face-
value of the shares issued in connection
with the deal. At some future date, it is
intended to give the public an oppor-
tunity of acquiring a direct interest in
H. and W.T.’s Queensland investments.
The board decided to make the TV ven-
ture a domestic matter. Estimated cost is
not mentioned, but seems likely to be well
in excess of £500,000. H. and W.T. is to
find 85 p.c. of the new co.’s capital, and
Associated Newspapers (London) the
other 15 p.c. The London co., which
publishes the London “Daily Mail” and
has a substantial capital interest in the
commercial TV set-up in Britain, should
be very helpful in provision of pro-
grammes and technical advice, etc. In
July last orders were placed with A.W.A.
for transmitting and studio equipment,
delivery of which is expected about mid-
-1956. The transmitting-mast is now
being erected on the peak of Mt. Dande-
nong, and key personnel are studying
TV techniques in the U.S. and Britain.
It is too early yet to say when and to
what extent this TV offshoot is likely to
contribute to net earnings.
The co.’s own eight publications, chief
of which are the two Melbourne dailies
—“Herald” (evening) and “Sun News-
Pictorial” (morning)—its two broadcast-
ing-stations (3DB and 3LK), the book-
publishing division, and the gravure
printery at Hawthorn, where a new four-
color Goss press is now in operation, and
its various other investments all continue
to give a good account of themselves.
For the most part circulations either in-
creased or held fairly well, and advertis-
ing revenue expanded.
Gross income, which has more
than doubled over the last four
years, was £10,906,964 last term,
when the improvement was £1,241,394, or
12.8 p.c. So, although newsprint and
wages—the two hungriest animals in
the newspaper world —gobbled more,
the board was able to write net earnings
£115,398 stronger at £620,108:
Parent Co.
, Dividends *
t-* —Pref. N Re-
Sept., Profit. 6i p.c. 6 p.c.' Ordinary. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1949. .225,994 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,417,447
Reduction reserves, £105,334 .. 1,312,113
1950. .235,249 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,318,737
Taxes paid, £5399 1,313,338
1951.. 231.662 8125 16,600 14.1 = 204,000 1,316,375
From tax reserve, £1472 .. .. 1,317,847
1952. .241,827 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,331,049
1953. .393,706 8125 16,600 16.66=240,000 1,463,896
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Tax overprovided, £7854 .. ..1,471,750
Share premiums, £499,129 .. .. 1,97t),879
Added reserves, £53,974 .. .. 2,024,853
Less added intangibles, £566,453 .. 1,458,400
1954. .504,710 8125 16,500 20 =321,333 1,617,152
Tax overprovided, £1375 .. .. 1,618,527
Share premiums, £B7l .. ..1,619,398
Add reduction intangibles, £338,750.. 1,958,148
To plant replacement res., £225,000 .. 2,183,148
1955.. 620.108 8125 16,500 20 =407,471 2,371,160
* After deducting intangibles, £477,703 at June 30,
1955.
The £620,108 was written after allowing
£364,341 (up £92,243) fot depreciation,
and unspecified amount for taxation, and
tossing £225,000 into a reserve to meet
the increased cost of plant-replacement.
The reduction of £338,750 in intangibles
(mainly difference between cost and par-
value of inter-co. shareholdings) is re-
lated mainly to the Telegraph deal.
The £620,108 of profit claimed covered
the pref. divs. (£24,625) and 29.2 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 28.9, 25.6,
15.1, 14.3 and 14.6 p.c. back to 1950.
The div. was kept at 20 p.c., compared
with 16.6 p.c. in 1953 and a steady 14
p.c. (approx.) for the 15 years before
that. On shareholders’ net tangible funds
(capital and reserves combined less in-
tangibles) the year’s profit was 13.4 p.c.
To meet the cash portion of the pay-
ment on the Telegraph shares and help
finance the TV venture, £1,250,000 was
“made available” on 10-15-year unsecured
registered notes in June last. At the same
time £750,000 of similar notes was
retired. The next table shows how the
£500,000 of new money thus provided,
together with surplus earnings and an
extra £308,664 from sundry creditors,
etc., was used:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— ' 1954. 1955.
Pref £400,000 £400,000
Ord. 1,939,129 2,086,029
Reserves .. .. .. 2,433,605 2,623,863
Plant replacement .. .. 225,000
Outside interests .. .. 510,796 765,926
Notes, mortgage, etc. .. 960,625 1,460,625
Overdraft .. . . .. 417,559 395,501
Creditors, etc, .. .. 2,160,036 2,468,700
Final div. .. .. 237,646 290,460
£9,059,396 £10,716,094
Freehold property, etc. .. 1,359,875 1,733,894
Plant, etc 2,034,07 4 2,426,589
Shares, etc. .. .. .. 988,249 860,395
Stock 1,686,947 2,884,856
Debtors 2,094,278 2,273,560
Cash, etc 79,520 109,097
Intangibles .. .. .. 816,453 477,703
£9,059,396 £10,716,094
Net addition to freeholds, etc., was
£374,019, to plant, etc., £392,515, to
stocks £1,147,909 and to book-debts
£179,082. Shareholdings were reduced
by £127,854. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£602,237,
excluding shareholdings) was £517,358.
The growth in stocks was largely a hedge
against import-restrictions and the rising
price of newsprint.
At 20s. (18s. a year ago) the f.-p. ss.
ords. return 5 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis,
with good long-term prospects. The 6\
p.c. and 6 p.c v prefs. at 245. and 19s. 6d.
yield 5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover (including plant-
replacement reserve) is £3B 15s. 6\ per
cents., £l6 7s. lOd. 6 per cents, and
10s. 2d. ords.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
CONSIDERING the difficulties in the
path, this Victorian spinning and
knitting co., whose main mills are at
Coburg, has put up a satisfactory per-
formance of recent years. On the demand
side the market has been an expanding
one, due to growth of population, full-
employment and inflation. But it has
been difficult to hold at times, owing to
competition from lower-cost overseas
producers. The biggest troubles, how-
ever, have arisen from fluctuations in
raw-wool prices, rising costs and the fact
that, until quite recently, some plant at
one of the branch mills was out of date
and some of the other equipment needed
modernising.
The Australian average price per lb.
of greasy-wool has moved in this way
since 1948:
Year, Year,
June June
30, Price.* 30, ' Price.*
1948 .. .. 39.50 d. 1952 .. .. 72.42 d.
1949 .. .. 48.07 d. 1953 .. .. 81.80 d.
1950 .. . . 63.35 d. 1954 .. .. 81.50 d.
1951 .. .. 144.19 d. 1955 .. .. 70.88 d.
* Average per lb. greasy.
Average for the seven months to January
31, 1956, was 59.89 d., the figure for
January itself being 63.32 d. The effects
of these movements upon stock-values
and selling-prices, and of competition
and rising costs upon margins, called
for good judgment in buying and skilful
appraisal of likely losses in connection
with stocks, which were partly allowed
for out of earnings.
Evidence of the management’s suc-
cess in these and other matters is the
shrinkage of only £10,957 in the 1952
profit-figure and the remarkable improve-
ment in net earnings for the two


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors ,
16 Spring St., Sydney. 8U3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
LIFE ASSURANCE
S ervice
AUSTRAUAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LID.
INC. IN Q'LAND 1099
The Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
FOR
YEARS
Since 1895 al-
ways up to date
with all forms of
life and accident
policies.
it tfraunyui
TO NEK MAJESTY !« QUtf*
'VUtVfYQtS Of MOTOR LUBRJCAJfTS
ttWAWHUO I COL 111 LOMBOK *1
0
/Ye)
riwimw
for
(S) unlit
J
y
tftt 10
01 «•
&
cM**'
siOt^
succeeding years, as the follow-
ing table shows:
t —Dividends —\
Pref. Ord. Re-
June, Profit. 9& 5 p.c. 6i serves.
r 951.. 53,500 10,066 408,096
To staff fund, 398,096
1952.. 78,537 53,500 15,236 407,897
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 402,897
Capital profits, £9151 •• 41-,,018
6J p.c.
1953. .126,935 53,500 30,472 455,011
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 445,011
Capital profit, £1553 •• 446,564
84 p-c.
1954. .170,705 51,417 40,629 525,223
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 515,223
Sept., 2 p.c.
1954 f. 26,836 12,125 9,751 520,183
84 P-c.
1955. .134,566 48,187 40,629 565,933
To staff fund, £io,ooo .. 555,933
* Excluding depreciation reserves, now
£557,525. t Three months.
Owing to the change in balanc-
ing-date, little notice need be
taken of the September, 1954,
figures, which covered a period
of three months only, and these
relatively slack ones in the trade.
The £134,566 of profit claimed
for the year to September 30,
1955, was the second-best show-
ing yet. It covered the pref. divs.
and 17.7 p.c. on the £487,548 of
ord. capital as against 24.4 p.c.
for the year to June 30, 1954,
and 15, 5, 22.3 and 26.5 p.c.
back to 1950.
But the £134,566 included
£50,000 previously . reserved
against the wool-price fluctua-
tions. The year’s actual profit
from trading was therefore
£84,566, or enough to meet pref.
requirements and show 7.4 p.c.
on ord. capital. The div. was
kept at 8| p.c., the position in
respect of wool-prices and other
matters having improved since
the close of accounts. The
other matters are chiefly import-
restrictions, which have eased
the fierceness of overseas com-
petition, and the installation of
new plant for manufacture of
full-fashioned nylon hosiery and
modernisation of other equip-
ment, full benefits of which have
not yet been reflected in earnings.
The year’s net addition to
plant was £107,085 and to free-
holds £15,393:
, Sept. 30- \
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,137,648 £1,112,548
Reserves .. .. 1,035,946 1,113,458
Liabilities* .. 778,546 561,109
Total .. .. £2,952,040 £2.787,115
Freeholds .. ~ 211,535 226,928
Plant .. .. 762,694 869,779
Stocks .. .. 1,611,109 1,345,111
Book debts .. 355,322 334,511
Cash, etc 11,380 10,786
Total .. .. £2,952,040 £2,787,115
* Includes overdraft, tax reserve, divs.
payable, stock reserve and contribution
to staff fund, etc.
To meet the outlay, slash
£217,437 off outside liabilities,
etc., and repay £25,000 of the re-
deemable pref. capital, stocks
were reduced by £265,998 and
book-debts by £20,811. The
contraction in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,129,299) was
only £69,966. Stocks, largest
and most vulnerable of the assets,
appear at “not more than cost-
price, market-value or replace-
ment-cost, whichever is the
lower.”
The £1,112,548 of capital is
highly geared from the ord.
shareholder’s point of view—
it consists of 225,000 £1 5 p.c.
redeemable prefs., 400,000 £1
9 p.c. A prefs. (a reminder of
dear-money days of the early
1920’5) and 1,218,870 ords. of
Bs. each. At 6s. 6d. the ords.
return 10.2 p.c. on an 8| p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 17s. Id. The 9 p.c. prefs.,
covered by £3 12s. 2d. in net
tangibles, seldom appear on
’Change.
Australian Stock Breeders
TTHIS co.’s five big cattle-runs
are in Queensland, largest
beef-producing State of the
Commonwealth. They extend
from the Normanton district in
the Gulf-country eastward, and,
with one exception—the Lynd,
526 square miles, held under
occupation licence until the end
of 1956 —the leases have been
renewed for 30 years from July
1, 1954. To increase carrying-
capacity, reduce the risk of
drought-losses, and quicken
maturity and improve the quality
of the beasts turned-off, the
board decided a year or so ago
to spend over £lOO,OOO on im-
proving watering-facilities. On
the production side the outlook
is thus brightened.
In the past the experience of
shareholders has not been a
happy one, due to an unholy
combination of fluctuating
seasonal conditions, prices and
costs. After 20 years in the
wilderness and loss of half their
capital, the ords. got back into
the picture in 1948. They have
since had a run of moderate
divs. averaging 5.5 p.c., the rate
having climbed steadily from 2.5
p.c. in 1948 to 8 p.c. last term,
when the profit more than
doubled, reaching £49,029:
n ,—Dividends To Re- Re-
Nov.,Proflt.Pref.Ord. Total, serves.serves.
’49..13,131 6.2 6.5 12,654 477 1,060
’50..15,791 1 1 15,149 642 1,702
’61..14,115 6.2 6 12,108 2,007 3,709
’52.. 9,299 6,2 4 11,016 1,992
’53..16,462 6.2 6 13,199 3,263 5,255
’54..23,555 6.2 6 13,199 10,356 15,611
’55..49,029 6.2 8 15,383 33,646 49,257
The £49,029 —written after allow-
ing £4949 (approximately same
as previous year) for depreci-
ation and something for taxa-
tion —was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£6649) and show 38.8
p.c. on the £109,165 of ord.
capital compared with 15.5, 9.4,
1.5, 6.8 and 8.4 p.c. back to
1950. The cautious board lifted
the div. from 6 p.c. to only 8
p.c., money being wanted for out-
lay on watering-facilities.
The board is close - lipped
about sales, prices and the
number of cattle on the runs.
However, last term the season
was good, and Government
statistics show an increase in
cattle population, bigger slaught-
erings and exports of frozen
beef, and strengthening of cattle-
prices. Also over nine-tenths of
the beasts sold by the co. (to
the Ross River works) were
graded first-quality, thanks partly
to the better-quality bulls being
bred at the co.’s Lyndhurst stud.
The strengthening of local
prices for cattle was due, during
part of the year, to payment of
a Government bounty on beef
exported to the U.K. in anticipa-
tion of a deficiency payment
from the U.K. Government to
cover the amount by which U.K.
open-market prices fell short of
the guaranteed floor-level under
the 15-year meat agreement. The
total amount of subsidy handed
out exceeded the deficiency pay-
ment received by about £600,000.
The Federal Government intends
to recoup this excess pay-
ment by a levy—id. per lb. for
February, 1956 —on beef ex-
ported to the U.K. during the
current season. What effect this
will have on the price of cattle
during the months ahead remains
to be seen. Current Smithfield
(U.K.) beef-prices are above con-
tract floor-level.
The year’s net addition to the
book-value of freehold and lease-
hold properties was £54,687:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £216,414 £216,414 £216,414
Reserves .. 6,256 15,611 49,257.
Overdraft .. 8,695 61,141
Creditors .. 31,061 42,532 36,331
Final divs... 13,199 13,199 15,383
£269,624 £287,756 £378,526
Fre< holds and
leaseholds. 64,200 57.656 112,373
Livestock .. 182,304 192,107 205,681
Stores .. 14,301 21,394 36,725
Cash, debtors,
e*:c. .. 8,819 16,569 23,747
£269,624 £287,756 £378,526
Livestock, claimed to be taken
i ■ at a conservative figure, was
u;' 1.13,574, and stores increased
by £15,331. To help meet the
year’s growth of £90,770 in total
assets the co. went to its bankers
for £61,141. Taken in conjunc-
tion with the favorable seasonal
outlook at the moment, it all
augurs well for another good
showing at next balance.
Remembering that this class
of business needs to be valued
on average rather than im-
mediate results, the market
prices the f.-p. 10s. ords. at par
as against Bs. 6d. a year ago.
The £1 6.2 p.c. prefs. at 19s. 6d.
yield 6.4 p.c. Net tangible cover is
495. 6d. prefs. and 14s. 6d. ords.
Standard Ores and Alloys
Co-op., Ltd. (New York), has
just taken a six-weeks’ option
over beach-sand leases, at
Tewantin (north of Brisbane),
owned by Uranium Corp. of
Australia Pty. (wholly-owned
subsidiary of Rye Park Scheelite)
and Tungsten Consolidated, Ltd.,
whose interests are 75 p.c. and
25 p.c. respectively. Outright pur-
chase price is £200,000, or
£lOO,OOO for a half-interest. In
the latter event the cost of
equipping the venture is to be
borne equally by the American
co. and the vendors. Recent
boring of the whole property is
said to have disclosed approxi-
mately 41,000 tons rutile and
2500 tons monazite. Whether
these tonnages relate to raw
beach-sands, concentrates or
metals has not been made plain.
Rutile is almost pure titanium,
which has become the new
glamor-metal in the alloy world,
because of its lightness, tough-
ness and heat-resisting qualities.
Monazite is one of the radio-
active group, and is subject to
export control. The f.-p. 2s.
shares in Rye Park recently sold
at 2s. Bd., and those in Tungsten
Consolidated at Is. lOd.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
An evening reception marked the cen-
tenary of the Public Library, and in this
beautiful, spacious building guests were
allowed to look at rare and precious
manuscripts. The Governor and Lady
Brooks (the latter wearing a lovely gown
of white Duchesse-satin, with a velvet
ribbon marking the high Empire-bodice)
were received by the chairman of the
trustees, Dr. Irving Benson. Also in the
official party were the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte (her gown being of pastel-pink
satin), and the Lord Mayor and Lady
Selleck (she attractive in silver-grey
Chantilly-lace). Among the distinguished
guests were Mr. Justice Dean (Chancellor
of the University) and Mrs. Dean, Mr.
Justice Monahan and Mrs. Monahan,
Judge and Mrs. Barry, Mr. and Mrs. A.
T. Smithers, Dr. Stella Braithwaite, Miss
Kathleen Syme, and Cr. and Mrs. Justin
McCarthy.
* ☆ *
Australian and Italian guests were at
the late-afternoon party given by the
Marquesi and Marchesa Serafini, at which
Mr. G. Vaccari, a Melbourne citizen,
received a high Italian honor for his
trade-relation and migration work prior
to the resumption of diplomatic relations.
Assisting the Marchesa, who wore an
Italian-model frock of orchid-pink
corded-faille cut with a slim-fitting
bodice and very full skirt, was her only
daughter Patricia, who chose a white-
spotted candy-pink frock of pure silk.
At the party were the new Italian Vice-
Consul, Signor Saverio Callea, and his
pretty Russian-born wife, whom he met
while she was the youngest interpreter at
the Nuremburg trials. Other guests were
Mr. and Mrs. J. Pietscker, Mr. and Mrs.
S. de Marco, Mr. and Mrs. Nino Borsari,
Professor and Mrs. R. Rubbo, Lady
Heinze and Mary Boffa.
☆ ☆ ☆
White urns filled with white gladioli,
hydrangea and lilies decorated St. John’s
Church, Toorak, for the wedding of
Patricia Judith Gibson and William
Ernest Sargood. The bride chose a gown
of palest Ophelia-pink French satin. The
bodice featured a deep V-neckline with
wide folds,tied at the back with long rib-
bons. The skirt, falling straight at the
front, had a sweeping train at the back.
She wore a long pink tulle veil with a
wreath of satin orange-blossom, and car-
ried Ophelia roses and stephanotis.
The bridegroom’s sister, Mrs. J. Lillie,
was matron-of-honor, and bridesmaids
were Jane Chimside and Margaret Iron-
side. Their pale-blue organza frocks fea-
tured hemlines short at the front and
lowered at the back. The dropped waist-
lines were finished with sashes in
hydrangea-blue. Matching taffeta bows
were in their hair, and they carried blue
hydrangea and stephanotis. Reception
was at Menzies’.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Frank Tait is president of the
committee organising the annual Theatri-
cal Garden Party, to be held in the
grounds of Tara Hall, Kew, on March
11. Stage-personalities will be in charge
of various stalls, and will also give per-
formances at two concerts during the
afternoon and night under the Big Top
Mrs. Tait and her committee discussed
plans at a luncheon in the social-room of
Her Majesty’s Theatre; present were
Mrs. E. Comfoot, Mrs. Lytton Stephens
(president of the Royal Women’s Hospi-
tal), Mrs. J. D. Ross (she will have charge
of the hat-stall) and Madame Mario
Vigano.
The “Sailor Beware” company will sell
cider and savories, “Kismet” stars will
manage a stall, members of the “Can
Can” company will call their stall
“French Festival,” and stars from the
Tivoli will also be in the fun. lan
Roberts, stage-manager of “Can Can,”
will organise the variety concerts. Pro-
ceeds will be divided between the Royal
Women’s Hospital and the Actors’ Bene-
volent Fund. The garden-party will begin
at 2.30 p.m. Admission is by donation
of 10s. at the gate, but for a badge costing
30s. a reserved-seat at the concert is in-
cluded. Ticket-secretary is Mrs. lan
Roberts (JA 6150), or from Her Majesty’s
booking-office, next to the stage-door of
the theatre.
When Margaret Sinclair McCrabb was
married at the Toorak Presbyterian
Church to George Sanderson (“Sandy]’).
Murray, of Bonnington, Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), she entered the church carry-
ing a bouquet of white roses and white
heather tied with Scott tartan. When she
left the church after her marriage, the
Scott tartan had been replaced by one
of the Murray tartan.
Margaret, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. James McCrabb, of War-
raluen, Deniliquin, wore a classical gown
of white brocaded satin, with the un-
pressed pleats of the skirt sweeping into
a long train (incidentally, Margaret made
her own wedding-gown). Her veil was
held in place with a lace Juliet-cap.
Mrs. John Humphris was matron-of-
honor, and the bridegroom’s sister Anne
came specially from Scotland to be brides-
maid. Both attendants wore accordion-
pleated white organza frocks over apri-
cot —the bodices sleeveless and featuring
deep fichu-collars, and creamy-pink
Alice-bands on their hair. The bride-
groom, who is the only son of Professor
and Mrs. A. G. Murray, of Elanora,
North Berwick, had Jim Glancy, of
Tocumwal, as best man.
Reception for over 100 guests was at
the New Alexandra, East St. Kilda.
Mrs. McCrabb wore a long, graceful
gown of ice-blue French-satin-brocade,
with a short matching jacket. Among the
guests were Sir Albert and Lady Coates,
and Mr. and Mrs. Hunter Paterson(Denili-
quin). Margaret Douglas, who wore an
H-line frock of white poult patterned
with tiny pink roses and with pink satin
banding the strapless bodice and the long-
torso waistline, had come from Scotland
with Anne Murray for the wedding.
The Marchesa Serafini brought five of
her six children with her when she came
from Rome to join her husband, the
Italian Consul-General —the sixth, a son,
remained in Italy to finish his education.
Slim and elegant, the Marchesa is a de-
lightful hostess. With their children, the
Consul-General and his wife are occupy-
ing the Toorak home of Dr. and Mrs.
Ivan Maxwell, who are overseas.
Cool sea-breezes made conditions very
pleasant for racing at Caulfield on Satur-
day. Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained a large
party at luncheon before the first race.
Her guests included Mrs. F. Holland,
wife of New Zealand’s Prime Minister,
who wore a coat-frock in wheat-gold
tonings that was matched by the wreath
of leaves she wore on her hair. She was
accompanied by Mrs. L. Alderton, wife
of the High Commissioner for N.Z., who
added to her cherry-red velvet coat a
white curvette. Also in the New Zea-
land party was Mrs. G. Davis Goff, whose
husband is chief of the N.Z. liaison-staff.
Other guests were Mrs. T. J. Ryan
(Queensland Government representative),
Mrs. Ken McLean (wife of the club’s
vice-chairman), Lady Selleck, Lady
Burston, Mrs. J. Clendinnen and Mrs. A.
G. Hunter.
-ft*' ☆ ☆
At the Tivoli’s new show, “Spice and
Ice,” the Lady Mayoress, Lady Selleck,
wore a bouffant black Chantilly-lace
frock. Mrs. David Martin’s sheath-frock
was of dull-green satin. Mrs. Frank
Martin chose a padded, quilted frock of
old-gold silk-shantung. Mrs. Gordon
Cooper’s short sheath-frock was of pale-
beige guipure-lace. Mrs. J. D. McDonald
wore blue-and-pink-floral silks, Mrs. P.
L. Coleman pale-grey silk-organza. Mrs.
H. Silk’s beaded frock was in pastel-
blue tonings, and filmy emerald-green
chiffon was the frock worn by Mrs. S.
Aarons.
SYDNEY
There has been quite a French atmos-
phere around the city, partly due to the
presence in the harbor of the French
cruiser Jeanne d’Arc and the frigate La
Grandiere, and the consequent presence
of French officers and matelots. The
French Consul-General, M. de Mon-
tousse, gave a party at Prince’s on Friday
night, and the same night the French-
Australian Association gave a ball at the
Town Hall.
Also, all the functions associated with
the French Exhibition at the Showground,
to be opened on March 19, are being dis-
cussed and booked-for. On Saturday,
March 3, there is to be the gala-opening
of Les Trois Hirondelles fashion-parades
at Mark Foy’s, and on March 19, at
night, the gala-opening of the French
fashion-parades at David Jones’. On
21st there will be the gala-opening, at
night, of the French Fair at Prince’s, with
dinner prepared by M. Raymond Oliver,
famous French restaurateur, and on
March 24 the gala-opening of an exhibi-
tion of 64-million-francs’-worth of
tapestry, religious-display and miniatures
of French stage-decor at the National
Art Gallery.
Helen Duncan, attractive daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. George Duncan, of Rand-
wick, was given a delightful party by
her parents on the occasion of her
coming-of-age. Eighty young guests
danced on the terrace of Dr. Duncan’s
home and, between dances, strolled
through the garden, where fairylights
threaded through the trees lent enchant-
ment to the scene. Helen’s dress, a copy
of a Carven model, was of dusty-pink
silk-organza with two rows of matching-
pink guipure-lace outlining the apron-
front. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
Although Sydney’s weather has been as
unpleasant as it could be for the Inter-
Dominion Pacing Championship Carni-
val, from the social angle it has been a
very happy event, with much entertain-
ment in private homes of friends made
at conferences in other States and in
New Zealand.
Mrs. A. T. Cusick, whose husband is
president of the N.S.W. Trotting Club,
was hostess at a dinner for 150 women
at Usher’s Hotel, while the men attended
the Trotting Club’s dinner at the Hotel
Australia; after which there was a
theatre-party to the Royal to see “The
Teahouse of the August Moon.” The
garden-party at Harold Park had to be
abandoned, but the weather cheered up
sufficiently to make the harbor-cruise on
the Showboat a happy expedition.
At the Inter-Dominion Ball, given by
the Trotting League of N.S.W. at the
Trocadero, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Cusick
were guests-of-honor, Mrs. Cusick wear-
ing a striking dress of black velvet with
black Alenfon-lace appliqued on the
bodice to match the lace-skirt.
The president of the Trotting League,
Mr. W. Brown, was assisted in receiving
the guests by his daughter Margaret,
whose dress was a confection of cream
lace and sky-blue net. Mr. Brown’s
granddaughter, Carolyn Hancock (New-
castle), wore a youthful dress of. prim-
rose broderie Anglaise. Mr. F. G. R.
Stephenson was accompanied by his
daughter Loretta, whose lovely dress of
peacock shot-poult was much admired,
and by son-in-law and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Garth Hay. Though the night
was very humid, the 900 guests were in
a happy mood and a lively atmosphere
prevailed.
☆ ☆ *
One person who did not complain of
the heat during the week was the Hon.
Tengku Mhd. Hamzah, Prime Minister
of Kelantan, who was guest-of-honor at
a special luncheon arranged by the Royal
Empire Society. For Kelantan, a mem-
ber of the Federation of Malaya covering
about a quarter-million square-miles
with half-a-million population, has a
climate something like Sydney in summer.
The Tengku speaks excellent English, has
an 0.8. E., and has been a Fellow of the
Royal Empire Society for 25 years.
During his short holiday in Australia he
has visited all the capital cities; he will
fly to New Zealand before returning to
Malaya to attend the Conference of
Rulers.
V V #
Believing, so rightly, that women enjoy
the company of other women (especially
when there are no men around), Mrs.
Tom Bateman chose two all-feminine
tea-parties as house-warmings for her
spacious new home at Wollstonecraft.
The first, at which she entertained 50
guests, was held last Wednesday. The
second, for 60, is set down for March 7.
An amusing note was struck last week
when the last-departing guest, whose
offers of help had been declined, sug-
gested that perhaps the four elder
children, who had come in from school,
might lend a hand, whereat a shout of
laughter went up from the children:
“Don’t worry, she’ll make us! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Carden, of
Cheltenham, leave on a world-cruise by
the Italian liner Australia on Saturday,
March 3. They have already been given
several farewell-parties, and among those
listed for this week is a luncheon at
Prince’s on Thursday, to be given by
Mrs. A. A. Alam, of Mosman. This
will have an international flavor, since
among the guests (in addition to Mrs.
Carden’s two daughters, Mrs. Jack
Reynolds and Mrs. J. Plant) will be Mrs.
J. Cahill (wife of the Premier), Mrs. L.
Hoon Kim, Mrs. C. Gooma, Mrs. V.
Pokrajc, Mrs. N. Stipanovic, Mrs. T.
Russell, Mrs. Mary Mellock and Mrs.
Thelma Dan. Since Mrs. Carden is an
ardent member of the Garden Club of
Australia, her tour has been arranged
to include some of the world’s most
famous gardens.
if. if.
Amid all the heat it is odd to see the
shop-windows dressed-out with woollen
materials, suits, dresses and furs. One
would think such goods would be hard to
sell in this weather, but the salesgirls
report that the winter clothes “just walk
out.” One assistant who was interviewed
said immediately stock comes in there
are customers swarming round to buy it
or put it on lay-by, the idea being that
the cream of the winter-fashions must
be snapped-up now. “We open our
winter stock at the end of January,” said
this girl, “but at the last shop I worked
in we used to dress the window with
winter-coats on Christmas Eve, and, be-
lieve it or not, people came in to buy it
that very day! ”
# V
The Anzac Festival Committee has set
March 1 as the closing date for its
literary- and musical-competitions, which
this year are for an essay on “The Story
of Anzac” as written for children (not
more than 4000 words), and a musical
setting for a national song on the Anzac
theme. The prize for the essay is £lO 10s.
and for musical setting £5 ss.
* ☆ ☆
A country w/edding of interest to many
city people was that of Suzanne Teakle,
only daughter of the late Mr. Charles
Teakle and Mrs. C. Teakle, of Holmby,
Lake Bathurst, and Tony Pope, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Eric Pope, of Gundary
Plains, Goulburn. The bride wore white
nylon and satin in bouffant style, and
the bridesmaids —Wendy Lloyd Jones,
Jean Ranken and Sally Shephard—wore
white organdie dresses sprinkled with
pale-green appliqued flowers and sashed
in green taffeta. The wedding was cele-
brated at St. Saviour’s Cathedral, Goul-
burn, and the reception held at Holmby,
Lake Bathurst.


Circular Charts for all types
•f fiecordlng liutrumcnti
for «a j cUm of HtchiMrf
or Cqwipmoni
MITCH CHARTS • Spot U*y
JACMW O‘SILU VAN 9b,. ltd
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Missing Friend
WOULD HERBERT HANWELL CHES-
NEY WILLIAMS, who was known to have
resided in the West Kogarah District, New
South Wales, or any person knowing his
present whereabouts, or the date and
place of his death, please communicate
with the DISTRICT MANAGER, PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, P.O. Box 8, HOKI-
TIKA, NEW ZEALAND?
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO WILLIAM FREDERICK CAMPION-
TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY BROOKE
CAMPION has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 442 of 1966 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 11th day of
May 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs. G.
W. Connah Son & Steed, Solicitors, of
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN
Registrar.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER HILL formerly
of Cottesloe W.A. Address now unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife JOAN
WINEFRED HILL has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of your
adultery and seeks the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 27 of the
Matrimonial Causes and Personal Status
Code 1948 If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
at the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth Western Australia within
forty clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED the
15th day of February,, 1966. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce
TO LLOYD JOHN DEMPSEY late of
Newcastle and Brisbane in the State of
New South Wales —TAKE NOTICE that
MILDRED EVELYN DEMPSEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1564 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion without
cause or excuse for thrree years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 30th day of April 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. JOHNSON &
O’NEILL, Solicitors, 69 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Gafni
Miklos Gafni, who had been
fighting a losing battle against
the beaches through the second-
longest heatwave in Melbourne’s
history, closed his account at
the Town Hall with one of his
usual programmes, beginning
with the classics and ending
with the sort of song the
Neapolitan boatman sings below
the casement of his beloved.
Melbourne hasn’t opened
with much celerity for Gafni,
partly no doubt because of the
aforesaid heatwave, but also
because his big, florid voice isn’t
eminently suited for Brahms
and Mozart, and he is obviously
ill at ease with these composers.
He sings Italian opera with such
enormous gusto that it is as if
he were another person
altogether.
Moving to Sydney, Gafni
brought to his first two pro-
grammes a voice strengthened
at several points since his
previous visit and an art which
puts him well up among the
world’s dramatic-tenors.
He has developed a mezzo
voce of great purity; his
attacks on fortissimo high-notes
are accomplished with ease and
assurance; he can now shade-
away his voice from full throttle
to almost a whisper ; and he has
learned to use the power at his
command with discretion. As
well, he has expanded his
repertoire greaty, and his
diction has improved out of
sight.
On the debit side, he shows
a tendency to breathing-
irregularities and a limited
flexibility—a symptom of this
was his treatment of the florid,
figuration-passages in the final
bars of “Questa O Quella” from
“Rigoletto.”
The song which pointed his
mastery of the most difficult
feat for a robust tenor —sus-
tained singing, legato, on the
half-voice —was “Amarilli,” by
the 16th-century Italian Caccini.
In Handel’s “Ombra Mai Fu,”
too, his voice rode over the
long, slow passages smoothly,
and he swelled the initial
syllable of the aria to noble
proportions.
Gafni ventured into the field
of lieder with moderate success,
his “The Trout,” of Schubert,
reasonably playful, and the
same, composer’s “To Music”
delivered with due regard for
the fact that this song has in it
all of Schubert’s reverence for
his Muse. One of the finest
songs was Rachmaninoff’s “In
The Silent Night,” built to a
splendid climax and then dying
away. Another well-judged
piece of pure lyricism was Hage-
man’s “Do Not Go, My Love.”
But it was in opera that Gafni
showed his best. , He has
exceptionally good lower-chest
notes, almost of baritone
quality and resonance, and
these —as well as head-notes of
superb power—he used to good
effect in Frederick’s “Lament”
from Cilea’s “Arlesiana.”
Dramatic power was also
turned on at full pressure in “Si
Ben Mio” from “II Trovatore.”
The singer used lighter tones for
Mozart’s “II Mio Tesoro,” but
here breathing and flexibility
were wanting. Lohengrin’s long
“Narration” owed more to
Naples than to Bayreuth.
Henri Penn accompanied with
his customary nimbleness,
accuracy and taste.
*
“Laugh Around the Clock”
Best item on Sydney Tiv.’s
current bill is a group of pint-
sized marionettes presented by
the Salici family, of Italy, in a
series of concert-numbers. The
singing, dancing, piano- and
violin-playing of the little figures
are accompanied by remarkably
supple and lifelike movements,
which are probably due to the
fact that the puppets appear to
have more than the usual number
of joints, and to the added fact
that the dexterous Salicis are
sixth-generation hands at the
game.
American Frank Marlowe
seems to be larger than fife, yet
twice as natural, in his frenetic
comedy. Juggler Eddie Rose
kicks a “flying-saucer” from his
right foot and catches it oh his
head, following with cups and
more saucers until he has a
wobbling pile of four sets,
whereupon he sends up the sugar
and spoon for good measure;
Stuffy Bryant dances on a large
drum until it almost talks; and
a trio, including a man 7ft. 9in.
tall (“I eat what’s right”) and a
midget (“I eat what’s left”), make
the most of what comedy the
contrast offers.
Local singer Darryl Stewart
has a line of sentimental ditties,
Johnny Laycock polishes off a
formidable array of brass in
record-time by the apparently
simple expedient of playing two
or three or more instruments at
once, and June Salter sings of a
“lovable mutt who is the reason
for her poodle-cut.”
Contributing largely to the
evening’s amusement, veteran
Billy Russell, with shades of “Old
Bill” about him, reminisces over
“Lily of Laguna” and the old
cheerful songs and is saddened
by the hearts sighing-and-dying,
yearning-and-burning type of
songs of present-day singers,
with their “crooner’s crutch”
(the microphone). He finds it
particularly “gruesome” to hear
Here I stand,
My heart in my hand,
during the breakfast session
when faced with a plate of liver-
and-bacon, and equally bother-
ing and bewildering to have
Frankie Sinatra moaning about
being “bejiggered and bejug-
gered.”
* . * &
“The Glass Menagerie”
The Sydney Genesians pre-
sented Tennessee Williams’s
“Glass Menagerie” in a subdued
tone which brought out the
poetry and sadness of the piece
(an effect greatly aided by the
skilful fighting), and they con-
sciously avoided emphatic
dramatics. While this meant that
the cumulative effect was most
moving, it also meant the story
becoming monotonous in the
telling.
Kathleen Gaffney, as the in-
cessantly-nagging mother anxious
to marry-off her timid, ill-
adjusted daughter, sustained her
low-keyed interpretation of the
part with judgment, giving a
remarkable show of controlled
courage and dignity at the
moment when the long-desired
“gentleman-caller” reveals that
he is already engaged. Both she
and Philippa Baker, as her
daughter Laura, were often in-
audible at the back pf the small
theatre, which added to the pro-
duction’s somewhat muffled
effect.
Brian Anderson, as the son,
and Terry McDermott, as the
gentleman-caller, put in credit-
able performances, and the pro-
duction and decor by Philip
Hickie were harmonious in
thought and interpretation. Joe
Hickie was responsible for the
fighting.
Allbursts
At Hunters* Hill
As the habitat of such literary
lions and lionesses as Robert
D. Fitz Gerald, Kylie Tennant,
Jane Lindsay (now Jane Glad)
and Nancy Keesing, as well as a
flourishing group of artists,
Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, might
have been expected to turn on
an art-show of some brilliance;
but the sad fact is that in all
these suburban exhibitions, how-
ever praiseworthy in intention,
the tail wags the dog: and the
tail in the current municipal
fiesta in the Hill Town Hall is
long and drooping.
Members of six Sydney art-
societies were asked to con-
tribute, and there are some
pleasant watercolors by G. K.
Townshend, Alfred Cook, Mar-
garet Coen and Hal Missingham,
with oil landscapes by James R.
Jackson, H. A. Hanke, Erik
Langker and Adrian Feint. The
prize went to a crude and dingy
oil by Wallace Thornton: next
to it hangs an exquisite Murch
(mother and child on the beach
again; but beautifully cool in
color and graceful in modelling)
which is. by far the best picture
in the exhibition.
Talkies
“Gate of Hell”
This, remarkable Japanese film,
now at Melbourne Plaza, is
based on an 800-year-old story of
attempted palace - revolution,
clan-feud, samurai-code of ser-
vice and honor, bushido, and
revenge as a virtue.
These are all woven around
the the love of a samurai for a
lady-in-waiting who-happens to
be married to a high court-
official. Trouble starts when the
samurai, asked what reward he
he would like for a signal service
done to the Emperor, says he
would like the hand of the
young lady, not knowing she is
married.
It is the sort of plot Shakspeare
would have loved to handle, and,
in fact, there are parallels in it
with “Macbeth” and “Othello.”
As he pan’t be given the lady,
the samurai abducts her, then
induces her to return to her liege
lord and prepare the way for
his murder. However, she per-
suades her husband to sleep in
her bed, while she sleeps in his,
so that when the half-crazed
lover, boiling with emotion,
turns-up he plunges his sword
into the wife instead of the
husband.
When he realises his fatal
blunder he kneels and bares his
neck and asks the husband to
slice his head off. The husband
chooses a subtler method of
revenge —he lets him go out of
his palace, humiliated, disgraced
and dishonored.
This violent tale is told in
terms of the strange, stiff con-
ventions of the Japanese drama,
no stiffer and no stranger, how-
ever, than the conventions
Shakspeare had to contend with ;
and it is acted in the same terms
—the gestures and the poses con-
stantly reminding you of old
color-prints by Hokusai and
Hiroshige.
So do the battle-scenes, the
palace conferences, and even
the horserace, in which the
samurai, swathed in enough
velvet muslin and satin to serve
100 Australian jockeys, and with
the inevitable sword sticking out
behind him, wins by a neck from
his hated rival. The masklike,
completely expressionless face of
the heroine, although it does not
conform to Western ideas of
beauty, obviously conforms to
Japanese, because it is identical
with every Japanese print on
the subject.
The scenery is unbelievably
lovely; one shot of the great red
torii standing in the sea off the
sacred island of Miy&jima is
staggering in its beauty.
Despite the strange and,
to us, often comic conventions
it has been put into, the story
comes across with the same
intensity of feeling that Shak-
speare put into “Hamlet” and
“King Lear,” and the samurai,
the lady and her husband, at one
time grim and at another tender,
have up more difficulty in ex-
pressing their inner feelings than
Sir Laurence Olivier has in
“Richard III.” Whether the
Japanese Shakspeare expresses
himself as profoundly as the
English poet is beyond the know-
ledge of the present com-
mentator, the captions having
been put into colloquial English,
without, however, deadening the
dramatic impact.
* ❖ ♦
“Fire in the Blood” (Mel-
bourne Savoy): A brilliantly-told
French study of what the psycho-
logists classify as nymphomania
in a beautiful young woman,
who is alternately attracted to
and revolted by each man she
meets, each chap being also
alternately attracted and revolted
in turn.
She seeks a haven in marriage,
but the man she marries is a
young Italian who, if she’s in-
sane, is insane too. He is madly
jealous, not only of any possible
new lover but of every lover she
has had in the past. His jealousy
increases her obsession, and she
is eventually taken to a psychi-
atrist for treatment.
This astonisting scene might
be taken for a satire on
psychiatry in general. The
psychiatrist receives her like a
surgeon intent on an interesting
operation, with a dozen of his
students in attendance. He duly
extracts her story from her and
then tells his students that here
is a perfect case of split-person-
ality.
Having thus completely boned
her, he sends the unfortunate
girl back to her husband, but
instead of meeting him she meets
an amorous young man who
makes the usual proposal to her.
She holds him off with a revolver,
but he closes with her, and in
the struggle the pistol goes off
and she is dangerously wounded.
The conclusion is lame. She
recovers to be reunited to her
husband, but whether as two
persons or one isn’t explained.
Francoise Arnoul and Ray-
mond Pellegrin divide the acting
honors.
“Verdi” (Sydney Paris):
Historical fact is respected in this
artistically-ir: 'de biography of
Italy’s greatest composer. The
early sequences are harrowing—
as a. young man Verdi lost his
children and his wife, the latter
blow coinciding with an operatic
failure, and he vowed to com-
pose no more. It was a kindly
stratagem by the Scala im-
presario Merelli that turned him
from his vow and led to the
development of the greatest array
of Italian operas extant, culmin-
Gobbi. The dubbed-in English-
Speaking voices are not so con-
poser was 80.
His romance with the soprano
Guisseppina Strepponi, his faith-
ful and loyal companion for 20
years and his wife for almost
40, looms large in the story, but,
fortunately, not so large in the
running-time as the magnifi-
cently-staged excerpts from many
of his operas, which have the
benefit of some splendid singing
by Mario del Marco and Tito
Gobbi. The dubbed-in English-
speaking voices are not so con-
vincing.


markes in the sky
By
JACK
JUSBY
THE Co-ordinator’s voice is
like a stone smacking a
pool. After the silence
his sudden questioning
radiates to the ring of stunned
faces and quick answers come
back.
“Let’s collect what have got,”
he says, “and make something
solid of it. Radar?”
“We can’t see him!”
“Radio?”
“Can’t hear him any more.”
“Chance he’s hit a blind-spot
within range, Radar?”
“Not a chance. He’s gone
way out or disintegrated.”
“Suppose he pitched parallel
to the ground close-in —he’d get
to hell out of range that way?”
“We’d have seen the change,”
says Radar. “And allzone-radar
reports negative.”
“At mach.-5,” Chief-Technical
cuts-in. “A change that sudden
would be catastrophic. We’d
have heard the pop”
“Even if he disintegrated,”
reflects Radar, “we’d most likely
pick up some of the bits coming
back.”
“Look for any thing l” says the
Co-ordinator. “Dammitall, we’ve
got ten-million quid’s worth of
gimmicks here to see with and
hear with —and we can’t see him
and can’t hear him! He must
be somewhere!”
The Co-ordinator looks like a
top-surgeon •in mid-operation
who has mislaid the patient.
The patient is Chandler in
experimental rocket - propelled
Zl.
“He’s somewhere, all right,”
says Radar, examining his
fingernails. “Somewhere beyond
our radar and radio. And they
reach out eighty-miles. The
special stuff.”
“I’ve got stacks of paper
showing Zl would be busting
her guts to reach sixty,” says
Chief-Technical.
“Calculations are right ninety
per cent, of the time,” says the
Co-ordinator. “This time we’ve
hit the other ten.” He lifts a
phone. “Bring Z 2 to readiness.
Precautionary.”
A couple of the scientists
show alert approval. Elsewhere,
apart from the bent backs of the
radar- and switch-operators,
anxiety rules the roost.
Hackett’s heart leaps a foot and
settles back. Hackett is
reserve-research-pilot.
TTUNCHED forward in his
chair, Hackett stares at the
shaded radar - screens. Each
shows a tiny glowing green blip.
The observation - rocket at
twenty-miles. Nothing else.
He lets his eyes escape the
tension of the control-room—
through a glareproof-window to
the limitless desert on which the
building stands. Burnt sand
splintered with granite, thin
spatter of saltbush, hot in the
morning sun. Some low huts
squat in the foreground. Down
near by, rump against a parked
jeep, an abo. workman examines
the sole of his boot.
From the sullen desert
Hackett’s imagination rockets
away, past Freeman, twenty-
miles up on his observation-beat,
past the eighty-mile-level where
Chandler and Zl faded-out, and
on into the blue unknown.
He sees Zl, a microscopic
bullet, infinitely remote, break-
ing from the planned trajectory.
And Chandler, if he still exists,
irrevocably part of it. The
conscious, wondering brain of
the thing called Zl. Just as
Hackett himself is an integral
part of Z 2. But Z 2 is safe on the
ground, a mile away over the
sand, slung snug in the belly of
its mother-ship.
Hackett’s mind flashes back
over the long cocoon-months of
Zl and Z 2. The sixty-foot thin-
finned needles taking shape.
Hackett and Chandler them-
selves being shaped and
strengthened physically and
mentally to fit. Being staged-up
to take their ultimate place in
the project. Being progressively
tested for flaws. Tested as
exhaustively as every other
material and component.
Chandler so obviously the
right material —mature, relaxed,
competent. Hackett his own
doubting-Thomas, probing his
own weaknesses. Chandler
gradually breathing the spirit
into him. Breathing encourage-
ment and confidence. Just
worry about A today, B
tomorrow and C the day after.
You’ll find at the right time Z
comes easy. You’ve been
picked out by experts. Who
are you to argue? v They know
their stuff. All we’ve got to do
is make damn’ sure we know our
little bit.
Straightforward routine job.
That was Chandler. But this
was it, and Z hadn’t come easy.
Hackett’s attention snaps back
like elastic as the Co-ordinator
speaks into a mike.
“Observation?”
“Observation.” Freeman
comes in thin, high and chirpy.
“Still nothing?”
“Not a goddam thing. I
figure he’s gone to the moon.”
“You definitely saw him pass
you?”
“Yeah. Like you see a
tracer-shell.”
“Keep trying.” The Co-
ordinator moves again to the
centre of the room. A fair,
stocky figure in khaki shirt and
slacks. Faded grids of Air Force
rank on his shoulders. A.F.C.-
and-Bar among the gongs. A
top test-man back when jets
were trumps.
“Observation is twenty-miles
out,” he says, “with a further
eighty-mile radar-radio range.
We must accept it that
Chandler’s gone more than
one-hundred miles out.”
pYEBROWS jerk upwards
round the room. Faces lift
involuntarily and a variety of
eyes peer and squint at the low,
plain ceiling. Thoughts soar
through in the wake of Chandler
and Zl. Hackett thinks it looks
like a swy-school where the
pennies have kept on going.
“How much rocket-juice has
he got?”
The big wall-clock shows
10.30. Chief-Technical looks
at it.
“Six-minutes.”
“When that cuts out he should
fall back and show.”
A heavy man sprawls in his
chair, legs spread in front.
Open silk shirt and tweed
slacks. Black eyebrows rest on
his hQrnrims. He turns a
shaggy head to the Co-ordinator.
“I have a feeling I don’t like,”
he says. “Chandler may not be
able to come back.”
The big man is interrupted.
“Data,” comes a voice from a
speaker.
“Go ahead.”
“No analysis yet; but he
switched on data at twenty-miles
and it continued out to eighty.”
“O.K. Work on it. Yes?” to
the big man.
“It would be unscientific to
exclude the possibility that Zl
has encountered conditions,
much closer than they are
believed to exist, which could
indefinitely delay its return.”
“You mean,” says a young,
grey, three-star general, “that
Chandler’s busted another pet
theory wide open?”
“There is, in some scientific
quarters, an untried hypothesis
of a rhythm in gravity and a
rhythm in atmosphere. The
rhythm is held to damp-out, of
course, with distance, but on
present knowledge could cause
unexpected conditions”
“Out there where Chandler
is?”
“Yes.”
“Well, to hell with theories
now, Professor.” The general’s
hands spread in a washout
gesture. “The clock shows ten-
thirty-seven. Chandler’s out of
juice. He’s either coming back
like a bomb, according to Sir
Isaac and the apple, or he s
permanent thistledown accord-
ing to the new-rhythm boys.
We’ll damn’ soon know!”
The big man begins to protest.
“An uncalibrated rhythm of
influences”
“All right, we’ll soon know
something,” the Co-ordinator
cuts in. “Skin your eyes,
Radar.” He lifts a phone,
listens a moment. “Good work.
Stand-by.” He turns from the
phone and peers intently at
Hackett for a long moment.
Hackett stares back. Feels a
glow of excitement spreading
through him, almost painful.
“Observation to Control,
comes Freeman’s voice.
“Control.”
“Fired me last tube.”
“0.K., come back.” Into a
phone the Co-ordinator says,


ftlflw...
one ticket can
take you to
EUROPE
AFRICA
m
m
wi
So widespread, so efficient, is the Qantas
organisation, that—if you wish—you can buy
one ticket for luxury travel to practically every
country in the free world . . . your itinerary
completed with one straight forward booking,
and all your stop-overs, connections and timing
problems completely solved.
Fly Qantas to the playgrounds and markets of
the world. See Qantas or your Travel Agent.
And enquire, too, about Tourist Service at
lower costs.
by
AUSTRALIA'S OWN OVERSEAS AIRLINE
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (inc. in Q’land)
in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
Q 8.82.26
“Send Cagnacci up on observa-
tion.”
On the screens Freeman’s blip
moves earthwards. Before it
moves an inch a dull boom pene-
trates the control-room as
Cagnacci is blasted off the
ground-ramp a mile away. His
blip goes past Freeman’s on the
screens ; 10.44 on the clock.
“Chandler can’t get back!”
barks the Co-ordinator.
“We. must find out why,”
says Black-eyebrows in the
tweed slacks.
“That’s lined up,” says the
Co-ordinator. “How much
longer will his climate-control
work?”
“Out where Chandler is any-
thing might happen to it,” says
Chief-Technical. “Barring un-
known factors he should be
comfortable for seventy-five-
minutes. Naturally there’s a
chance of something blowing up
through no outside pressure, and
we don’t know what skin-
friction-heat’s done to her on
the trip out”
“Where Chandler is, my
friend, everything’s unknown,”
says Eyebrows. “The stone we
call Z 1 has slipped from our
sling. We don’t know where
we’ve flung it or what it’s like
there. I feel Chandler still
lives. I know we must send Z 2
near enough to talk to him, but
not so far we lose it also. The
information Chandler can give
us, assuming he exists, is of
crucial importance. With it
we’re many years ahead. With-
out it we’re back decades.”
AIR-MEDICINE breaks in.
“What about getting
Chandler back? God by
running the rule over him now,
after this, we’d have a goldmine
of dope on strains imposed.
The man himself’s important.”
“One step at a time, Doc.,”
says the Co-ordinator. “Z2’s
going out to contact him.
0.K., Hackett?”
“Ready,”, says Hackett. He’s
been ready since he caught that
long look from the Co-ordinator.
In any case he’s been ready for
Z 2 for weeks now. Groomed
to follow Chandler.
“Right, Hackett. Get this.
Chandler now, temporarily or
for keeps, is a sort of satellite.
Even if he used his ejection-gear,
climate-capsule and all, he’s no
better off. He was briefed to
begin his push-over at fifty-
miles. The curve was calculated
to carry him out to seventy-
miles before he nosed back.
Then airbrakes, gear down and
normal landing on the strip.
You’ve learned all that drill.”
“Yes.”
“Chandler went to Hay, Hell,
and Booligal beyond the
seventy. So you’ll start your
push-over closer in. Start at
forty-miles out. And don’t fire
your last rocket. Chandler may
have had too much punch. You
can use it if necessary to get
further out after we know what’s
going on. Essential thing is
simply to get within radar and
radio range of him. Clear?”
“Yes.”
“On the way out go through
all your routine drill, data,
etcet., as though Chandler
weren’t there. We want some-
thing out of this. And for God’s
sake stay in where you’re
retrievable. If you feel you’re
going too far use trim to nose-
over—it won’t kill you —and use
it fast. Keep on the screens.
Out of range you’re useless. If
you contact Chandler get all you
can from him and relay it back
here as you get it. Feel O.K.
about everything?”
“Yes.”
“Good. Z2’s all set up over
there. Get going.”
Outside the abo. workman sits
in the old jeep rolling a smoke.
He gives Hackett a wave.
“Good - day, Bill,” says
Hackett,. walking past him.
“Reckon you could track a
rocket?”
“Dunno, Mr. Hackett,” says
the big white grin in the
Stone Age face. “D’they leave
marks in the sky?”
Marks in the sky, thinks
Hackett; marks in the sky! Be
needing ’em in a few minutes,
and a blacktracker. He’s
laughing when he slides into the
Research car and the driver
sends it roaring over the desert
towards Z 2.
'7'2’s big mother-ship stands
facing the long, shimmering
runway, its jets whining-up. In
the belly hangs Z 2 with her four
tons of high-explosive rocket-
fuel. There is the shrill whistle
of liquid oxygen steaming off.
“All set, Mr. Hackett —your
gear’s laid out in there.”
Hackett goes up the ladder
and forward behind the crew.
Quick thumb-up from Hackett
to the captain and the big plane
begins to roll. Hackett slips
into a seat and is pressed back
against it as the big jet-job gets
into her stride. He feels her
surge and lift and begin to screw
into the sky. He strips-off and
gets into his working-togs,
topped by the grotesque
pumpkin-helmet. He walks aft
trailing the umbilical cords that,
attached to Z2’s innards, will
make him part of her like a
foetus in a womb.
Z 2 hangs low in the cut-away
belly of 1 the mother-ship. Her
stubby razor-thin wings are
swept back like the barbs; of an
arrow. Hackett’s eyes run back
from her needle-point nose to
her high fin rising in the gloom
towards the big plane’s tail.
Whew! He’s trembling a bit
now. He slides down into Z2’s
cockpit and closes the canopy,
sealing himself off from every-
thing else in the world. He
straps-in, plugs-in and begins to
go through the drill he’s done
hundreds of times on the
ground.
He switches-on automatic-
climate-control. Oxygen begins
fizzing into the sealed cockpit
and pressure builds up. Tunes-
in to the mother-ship bearing
him aloft.
“Three-minutes,” comes the
voice of the captain. Hackett
tensely feeds a dribble of liquid
oxygen into the rocket-fuel
system. He hears! the whoosh
as the pressure sends a needle
round a dial on the panel. A
green light shows. Hackett
breathes again could have
blown the whole lot to blazes
there.
“Two-minutes,” sounds in his
phones.
“Pressures 0.K.,” Hackett
reports to the ground.
His hands play the Wurlitzer-
array of knobs, switches, levers.
His eyes sweep the spread of
dials and gauges . . .
“One-minute.”
Have l forgotten anything ?
One slip’s curtains. He mentally
flashes through the drill again.
“Fifty-seconds.”
Fifty-thousand feet. Release-
height. Drop, fire the rockets,
and scoop-up into space after
Chandler.
“Ten, nine, eight” here
she comes!
“Drop !”
Z 2 plummets from the
carrier’s dark belly into blinding
sunlight.
Hackett hits No. 1 rocket-
switch ; waits, braced, for it,
and is slammed back against the
seat as a giant force sends Z 2
screaming forward. Z2’s con-
trols become effective and
Hackett eases her nose up away
from the flat brown earth into
the bluer-than-blue void above.
More giant slaps on the back as
he flips switches and successive,
tubes spew fire, adding their
thrust to the first. With each
thump forward Hackett’s seat
and controls jump back and
return on the recoil-runners.
Outside already in the thinning
air the temperature is minus-
lOOdeg. Inside - refrigeration
keeps Z2’s magnesium skin from
melting and igniting.
“Attaboy! ” Cagnacci’s voice
comes unexpected as an electric
shock. Hackett jumps in his
harness, but doesn’t reply. He’s
busier than he’s ever been in his
life. To Cagnacci, speeding
level on his observation-beat at
twenty-miles, Z 2 is a split-
second streak of silver and a
trail of fire. Streaking straight
up. Cagnacci’s eyes can’t follow
Z 2, but his radar holds it.
Hackett hears him talking to the
receding earth.
ttACKETT switches on data,
and a maze of instruments
begins recording strains and
stresses while microfilm-
cinecameras take in the dial-
readings. He glances at the
catherine-wheeling feet-altimeter-
needle climbing round past
thirty, at the speed-needle
flickering near mach.-3.9. About
2500 m.p.h., 1000 m.p.h. faster
than he’s ever travelled before.
He hardly noticed Z2’s momen-
tary pigrooting back at mach.-l.
Z2’s silver - pointed snout
becomes a snow-dazzle against
the blinding blue intensity of the
sky. Hackett is no longer living
for the day, or the moment.
He’s living for the split-second.
Too remote now from past and
future to feel regret or fear. Too
stunned by the experience to
experience it. Going through
the practised drill like an
automaton. His body is numb
to new stresses.
“Forty-miles,” he says, and
wonders if his voice is function-
ing. “Mach.-4, starting push-
over.”
“Nice work,” comes the clear
voice of the Co-ordinator.
Hackett gingerly presses
forward on the wheel to start
Z 2 on its curve from vertical to
level flight. He watches the
G-dial. No effect. He pushes
harder, puts all his weight
against the wheel. The needle
seems to come back clock-slow
to .9(7, .8(7. It records the
lessening of his weight on the
seat as Z 2 arcs over the top of
its trajectory. At zero G he
could float free in the cockpit.
Coarse handling here could kill
him.
But Z 2 is curving over too
slowly. The giant blow-torch
in its tail is blasting it far out
in the wake of Chandler. At
four times the speed of sound.
Fifty-five-miles. Nudging
sixty.
“Rein her in, man, you’re
getting way out! ” says Cagnacci.
Hackett’s left hand drops to
his trim-wheel and he begins to
trim her nose-heavy. The needle
edges back to .S G, .4, .3
Suddenly he is flung up
against the harness ; blood runs
to his head and the void turns
blue-to-rosy. He eases-off the
trim and his world is blue again.
Way down there past the nose
blue fades into flat brown. The
earth. The good earth. It
seems a lifetime since he’s seen
it. Z 2 is flying level.
“Level,” Hackett reports.
“Mach.-4 indicated. Seventy-
five-miles. Course two-seven-
two. Two rockets reserved.”
Simply speaking into space?
Come too far? Sweating and
trembling from the pressure of
the past few moments.’
“Gotcha!” comes Cagnacci.
“0.K.,” from the Co-ordina-
tor. “Hold her at that. How’s
your control?”
“Eccentric phases before
levelling. Control slow but O.K.
now. Height- and speed-
instruments a bit wayward.”
“Climate-control? You feel
0.K.?”
“Good as gold. Emergency
oxygen and pressure checks
0.K.”
“Use ’em quick if you feel
anything wrong. It’s all yours.”
Limb by limb Hackett forces
himself to relax.
“Hullo, Zl! Hullo, Zl! This
is Z 2” He starts searching,
listening, watching his radar
indicators. An iridescent speck
in an emptiness stretching
beyond the reach of his mind.
Far on the left the Southern
Ocean spills into the lifeless
brown floor of his world,
sharpening its edge with a hair-
thin thread of white. Below
drift white pock-marks of salt
lakes. From the clear depths
his eyes rove to light-shot blue
above. Back over his right
shoulder the sun is a white-hot
hole in the sky, blinding him
with unnatural brilliance. His
eyes flinch from it. In a rear-
vision mirror Z2’s tailfin rears
against the red flare blasting it
forward.
“Hullo, Zl! Hullo, Zl! This
is Z 2”
Hackett feels like some old
hatter talking to his swag.
About as much chance of a
reply. Looking for marks in
the sky. The abo. had the thing
sized up.
“Turn wide on to oh-nine-oh,”
comes the Co-ordinator. His
voice is faint, but Hackett
jumps at the sound. His senses
seem naked and raw. He starts
a wide sweep into the north and
east.
In a flash his attention jerks to
a directional-dial on the panel.
The pointer has come to life,
moving, wavering, groping.
Watching, Hackett keeps turning
right. The pointer gradually
steadies, then goes haywire.
Too far. He rolls Z 2 slowly
back into a left turn. The
pointer calms down, content
with minor oscillations, and Z 2
streaks through the unknown on
the indicated path.
“Got something. Heading
oh-nine-five,” Hackett reports.
“Gotcha, man,” says Cag-
nacci. “Get after him!”
“We’ve got you,” says the
Co-ordinator.
ON a compact luminous
screen shaded below the
pointer a dim point of light
appears, near the top. Tense
again with excitement, percep-
tions boosted, Hackett stares at
the pointer and the light. There
are marks in the sky, and I’m
following ’em! Tracking
Chandler faster than the earth
spins! He laughs behind the
glass of his big helmet, damps-
out a flicker of hysteria, empties
his mind of drama.
“Hullo, Zl! Hullo, Zl! This
is Z 2” —
“Hullo, Z 2 . . . Hullo, Z 2 . . .
Hullo, Hackett! Where the
bloody hell are you?”
“Seventy-five miles. Oh-nine-
five. About B 16.”
“You’re getting stronger.
Keep coming till your pointer
kicks, go another fifteen-seconds
and circle. And don’t climb
after me, Hackett. We can talk
where you are.”
“0.K., Chandler. Cagnacci,
do you hear Chandler?”
“No.”
“Control, I’m speaking to
Chandler.”
“We heard your end. What’s
his strength?”
“A bit weaker than Cagnacci,
but clear.”
“0.K.”
Z 2 seems to sag in the sky, the
deceleration throwing
Hackett forward as a rocket
cuts out. He flips a switch,
firing his second-last, and Z 2
gets in its stride again. Hackett,
hunched, stares at the panel.
Flick. The pointer does a back-
flip, and Hackett’s heart goes
with it. He’s somewhere
directly below Chandler. He
barks this into the mike, watches
the sweep-hand quarter the
panel-clock, and turns.
“Circling,” he says. It’s a
pretty tight circle, radius about
twenty miles. He doesn’t want
to lose Z 1 now.
“Hackett, I heard I’m a bit
weaker than Cagnacci,”
Chandler comes in. “Means I’m
further above you than Cagnacci
is below. Cagnacci at twenty-
miles is fifty-five below you.
Say I’m sixty on top of you,
conservative. Puts me up one-
three-five-miles. Right?”
“Right,” says Hackett.
“You’ve got sixty-four dollars.”
Must be getting a bit light-
headed. He feeds in some
reserve oxygen. Greying-out
slightly. He eases the turn.
That’s better.
6 6 /"''HANDLER at one-three-
five,” he says to Control.
That’ll make ’em jump! “Come
in, Chandler.”
“I haven’t got a bloody clue
what’s happening here. Not
(Continued on page 23)


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Someshere to go
by
D.J. Golding
MY first encounter with
the General was some-
what disconcerting.
Smithers tapped hesi-
tantly on the door; there was
a muffled bellow from within,
and Smithers said “It’s all right,
I think —come along in.” And
in we went.
A louder bellow greeted us.
Over Smithers’s shoulder I
glimpsed the General seated at
his desk, his great round face
red and swelling, his outsize fist
thumping the wide expanse of
blotter. A thin young chap was
standing before the desk; he
glanced nervously around at us,
and Smithers hastily stepped
back on my foot.
“Come in if you’re coming,
stay out if you’re not—make up
your minds!” roared the
General.
“Sorry, sir, I thought you were
disengaged,” Smithers mumbled,
reaching for the door; but the
General pointed towards the
window with an imperious
gesture.
Smithers and I shuffled across
and stood there like a couple of
sheep that had strayed into the
bull-paddock and couldn’t find
the way out.
“Disengaged? I’ll be dis-
engaged in five - seconds,”
exclaimed the General. “Now
then, Oates —you’re not satis-
fied, hey? You want a nice
soft, comfortable possie where
you oscillate upon your pos-
terior all day long in a swivel-
chair, and have cups of tea
shoved under your nose by a
moon-faced typist. ‘Your tea,
Mister Oates! Another cup,
Mister Oates? Good ni-ight,
Mister Oates, it’s five-o’clo-ock! ’
That’s how you want to be
spoken to, isn’t it, in a nice
polite way in an easygoing
office where you’ll wear out
your trouser-seat quicker than
your boots. Hey?”
The young man began a
rambling, hesitant affirmation of
his readiness to do a fair day’s
work so long as he was fairly
treated; he made heavy going
of it, and the General cut him
short with a broadside across his
bows.
“All right, you don’t like us.
You don’t like our ways. Well,
you don’t have to stay, you can
go—go now! Go and find your
soft possie and your tea-pouring
typist and your rubber-
cushioned chair: you won’t be
missed; there’s a better man
waiting to fill your shoes. And
when we’ve done our job you
can sit and read all about it
while you drink your morning-
tea, and you can say to your-
self : ‘I quit. I might have
helped to build that dam, the
biggest dam in the State, the
biggest construction job that’s
been tackled in this country
since Captain Cook. But I
didn’t, I walked out on the job.’
Now beat it!”
With evident signs of relief,
Oates beat it. The General
turned to Smithers.
“Oates is leaving us,” he
observed. “Can’t stick it.
Damn’ good riddance. See that
he gets what’s coming to him.”
“Yes, sir,” said Smithers.
“Amazing how they pick
them down at head office.
That’s the third no-hoper they’ve
sent along this month. Amazing.
What’s this?”
TTE glared in my direction,
■*-*- and Smithers said hurriedly
“Mr. Parker, sir the new
public-relations officer. You
wanted to see him as soon as he
arrived, so I”
“From the city ?” barked the
General, as if the word were a
euphemism for institution for
the feeble-minded.
I admitted the damning
accusation.
“What do you know about
public-relations ? ”
I gave him a succinct outline
of my brief journalistic career.
When I had finished the General
put his head between his hands
and muttered “Good God!”
A brooding silence hung in
the air for half-a-minute.
“Do you know,” said the
General at last, “that the public
is a blind, omnivorous ass? It
bolts down facts like a donkey
eating straw. Does it know
what it devours? Does it digest
what it consumes? Does it
query what is set before it?
No!”
He glowered at me as if I
epitomised the blind, omni-
vorous public, until I could have
sworn my ears were perceptibly
lengthening. A comment of
some sort seemed expected, so
I said brightly “And my job, I
take it, sir, is to feed the public
with facts.”
“Your job, young man,” he
retorted, “is to impress upon
every man, woman and child in
the community the importance,
the magnitude, the stupendous
significance, of the vast under-
taking that is being carried out
here. You will instil into them,
individually and collectively, a
sense of the tremendous benefits,
agricultural, social, industrial
and economic, of the scheme
that has been meticulously
planned and is being pains-
takingly performed. You will
break down the barriers of
ignorance and indifference ; you
will inspire the public with a
patriotic pride in this national
achievement; you will bring
home to them its immediate
urgency.
“You will accomplish this by
multifarious means. You will
prepare press-reports, radio-
broadcasts, articles, leaflets,
pamphlets, booklets , and other
publications. You will give
lectures, talks and public-
addresses, welcome visitors to
the site of operations, conduct
personal-tours of the entire
area, arrange hospitality for
special guests, and attend to
their individual requirements.
You will inform yourself on
every detail of the work that is
going on, maintain close contact
with every section of the
organisation, and hold yourself
in readiness at all times to under-
take any special duties that I
may allot you.”
It seemed a pretty tall order,
but I judged it unwise to appear
overawed by the prospect, so
I said “Very good, sir; in my
spare time I might do a little
fishing.”
The General jumped like a
bishop who had come across a
choir-boy pulling goldfish from
the cathedral-font.
“Fishing! ” he snarled.
“You’ll do no fishing here. Do
7 find time to dangle lines in the
river, Smithers? Do you see me
paddling around in oilskins in
pursuit of trout? Do I have a
minute to spare for frivolous
recreation?”
Smithers intimated that the
suggestion was utterly pre-
posterous.
“Take him away,” ordered
the General; “show him his
quarters, see that he’s told
everything he needs to know;
don’t rush him, let him settle-in
comfortably, and bring him back
here it’s now five-thirty
bring him back at seven-fifteen
sharp. There is much to be
done ; there is not an hour to be
lost.”
CJMITHERS took me away. As
we walked across to the
staff-huts I questioned Smithers.
“Is he always like that?
They warned me, down in
town, that the general-
superintendent was a pretty
difficult customer, but I hardly
expected”
Smithers smiled. “He was on
the mild side, if anything, this
afternoon,” he remarked.
“You’ll get to know his ways if
you stay long enough. Lots of
’em don’t.”
“So I gathered. If that’s a
mild sample of the way he
treats employees, it’s a wonder
that anyone stays. But I
suppose I’m out of order talking
like this to you; you’re his
private-secretary, aren’t you?”
“Personal assistant to the
general - superintendent,” he
murmured. “Private-secretary,
aide-de-camp, general factotum ;
I’ve been with the General since
the show started ; like the rest,
I’ve felt like turning it in dozens
of times —about once a week,
on the average; bad weeks,
once a day. I’ll grant you the
General’s difficult at times, and
damn’ near impossible occasion-
ally, but he’s a top-rank
engineer and a brilliant
organiser. He knows every-
thing about the whole outfit,
down to the tying of the
laborer’s bootlaces.
“It’s a fact,” he continued, in
answer to my amused smile;
“one chap lost his boot, and
nearly lost his foot, through a
badly-tied lace. To prevent a
repetition of the accident the
General issued an order specify-
ing how bootlaces were to be
tied. That’s the sort of thing
he does; I’ll show you the
order sometime. As to why
men stay on —well, it just gets
you in. It’s —it’s big."
As we reached the row of
huts, Smithers said “You’ll find
your gear all here, but you won’t
have time to unpack, just a
quick wash, and then come and
get something to eat and meet
the boys. Then I’ll take you
back to the General. It looks
as though you’re in for a long
session.”
I was: it was nearly twelve
when I crawled into bed, my
brain reeling from the General’s
initial onslaught. Facts, figures,
forecasts, the whole history of
the great Budgeree Dam project
had cascaded around my ears
for four solid hours.
At first I had tried to absorb
it all, to take in the plan of
activities the General had in
mind for me. I soon realised
that I might as well try to trap
a mountain torrent in my hat.
It spilt past irresistibly and after
a few futile endeavors to
capture a thimbleful here and
there I gave up and let it flow
on uninterrupted.
The one solitary fact that I
grasped from that prodigious
session was that the General was
a fanatic, and that the object
of his worship was the Budgeree
Dam. If he had not been
responsible for conceiving the
vast project of which it was the
cornerstone, at any rate he had
convinced himself that he was ;
and no religious innovator was
ever more devoted to the god
of his own creation.
A S the weeks passed and I
settled down to the job of
interpreting the General’s
demands and instructions into
some semblance of a public-
relations service, this first im-
pression of his monomania was
confirmed.
It was true ? as Smithers had
said, that the General had a
passion for detail and amazing
capacity for work. He spared
neither himself nor his staff;
he was not content to know
sufficient for his administrative
functions, he wanted to know
everything that went on, and he
insisted that all under his
control give themselves whole-
heartedly to the task.
Tea-breaks were taboo; so
was the laying of wagers during
working-hours. On the morning
of the first Tuesday in Novem-
ber, shortly after my arrival at
the dam, the General had
warnings displayed throughout
the camp prohibiting the opera-
tion of sweepstakes upon horse-
races ; and he sternly repri-
manded a group of men he
caught during the afternoon
clustered around a portable-
radio in the drawing-office for
the Melbourne Cup broadcast.
His blistering comments on
the mentality of employees who
neglected their duties to listen
to a description of “a miserable
horserace,” as he termed this
historic and national event, were
naturally resented, but though
there were grumblings and bitter
reflections upon the General’s
origin and probable destination,
no one even hinted at resigning
in protest against such school-
masterish treatment. As
Smithers had observed, the job
was big; it had “got them in,”
and once men were captivated
by the Budgeree project it took
far more than personal remarks
by the general-superintendent
to break the spell.
The conception of the scheme
was vast: a huge catchment-
area was to be tamed and
brought under control for all
time by Man; great tunnels
were to be driven through
mountains, streams were to be
diverted, hydroelectric stations
to be built deep in the earth’s
bowels, and, from it all, water
and power were to be distri-
buted over an immense expanse
of country.
It got me in, too, after a while
and then the fact that I was
grossly overworked, and badly
worked continually plucked
from one job just as I was
getting my teeth into it, and
flung into action on the
General’s latest tactical
manoeuvre didn’t matter a
scrap.
There was no question of it,
the General was a genius in his
way; he saw beyond the
immediate problems, and his
foresight paid dividends. My
own appointment was an
example. He had fought
bitterly to convince the authori-
ties of the value of public-
relations in the face of criticism
of rising expenditure on the
project. But when the trade-
recession came along, while
other public works were
whittled down to the point of
collapse, “Hands off the
Budgeree Dam!” was the cry
from press and public ; and the
dam alone escaped the pruning-
knife.
Not that I’m claiming credit
for what was done to sell our
story to the community; in the
main, that was accomplished by
other hands than mine. But it
was the General’s insistence on
the public-relations job that
enabled the project to flourish
like a green bay-tree while the
(Continued on page 30)
RIVER SCENE
Bright Como now: a platter of blue glass,
On which the flashing pinnaces adore
Reflected sails, trim teakwood, flags that dance,
Washed by inverted waves along the shore.
The water-skiers spin, cracking like thongs,
A loop of cream around the burnished edge;
And whirling in the sky, the whip-bird prongs,
Each airy circle mocks their privilege.
All things are mirrors: sky and lake of blue,
Bells in the mind, mind in the ringing veins;
This fabled continent of joy, and you,
Heart dry as parchment, free of Europe’s stains,
No pool of light framed by the frozen mountains,
No smiling deep beloved of emperors,
Who dreamed once on the steep vermilion fountains
Of all the sabred slain beneath the stars — V
But a pale, brittle silence, lanced with birds,
A green-hedged day, Antipodean, still,
Innocent in the dusk; mirror unstirred
By all who touch her; secret, immutable.
N.S.W.
CHARLES HIGHAM.


Missing Friends
ANTONE knowing whereabouts of
DONALD PATIENCE, waterside worker,
formerly of Edgecliff, Leichhardt,
Cronulla and Narrabri, aged about 60,
slim, oft. 3in. tall, brown hair, grey
eyes, fair complexion, head and body
twitches, speech impediment, might be
known as J. WALKER, please inform
PUBLIC SOLICITOR, BW 8039. Hunter
Street, Sydney.
PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE.—WILL JIM
(or JAMES) WHITE, and his brother
WILLIE (or WILLIAM) WHITE, or their
children, communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Albert Street, Auck-
land, New Zealand, re the Estate of their
late brother PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE,
who died at Henderson, New Zealand, on
the Bth December, 1953, and was a son
of MART JANE WHITE, and a brother
of MART (or MAUD) WHITE. Friends
of the persons advertised for are asked to
bring this advertisement to their notice.
(# s
Off*
m
WE WILL
GIVE YOU A
BILL OF RIGHTS
• Freedom of religion, opinion, and speech.
• The right of every individual to own property.
• No resumption of private property for public purposes
without just compensation.
• No socialisation or nationalisation of any industry,
business, or undertaking without the approval of the
owners or a referendum.
• Except for defence or education, no compulsion of
any person to join associations of any kind, including
trade unions.
• The inherent right to freedom of peaceful assembly
and association.
• Freedom to join unions voluntarily.
• Free choice of employment.
• Every individual's right to equal and speedy justice
in a public hearing before an impartial tribunal
without political interference.
VOTE FOR YOUR
LIBERAL CANDIDATE
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
BI4IA
getting much from the instru-
ments. Oxygen and cockpit-
pressure are holding. God
knows why. Should hold
twenty-minutes more. I’ve been
out of power since 10.35.
Can’t budge her down. Can’t
seem to do a damn’ thing with
her.”
“Any control at all?” says
Hackett. His clock shows 11.28.
“No,” says Chandler. “I’ve
got none. But something-else,
or someone-else, has got the kite.
Whatever’s holding her here’s
got a stronger grip than
gravity.”
“Sargasso stuff.”
“Something like that. Aero-
dynamic doldrums.”
“Control?”
“Yes.”
“Chandler’s O.K. himself;
but can’t shift her down.”
“Get all you can. There isn’t
much time now.”
“Hackett to Chandler. Go
ahead.”
“0.K., here it is. On ascent I
was a bit slow pushing her over.
Started at about sixty-miles
instead of fifty. Rocket-thrust
was so strong and prolonged
that the pushover-curve carried
me to one-hundred miles plus.
Seems obvious, pending further
research, lower push-over with
Z 2 and weaker secondary
rockets.” Even Chandler, in
his voice, is showing strain.
Hackett calls Control and passes
on the gen.
“Ask him if anything else
stuck out on the ascent.”
“Hackett to Chandler. Go
ahead.”
“Coming up I went through
intermittent areas of reasonable
control, diminishing with dis-
tance, interspersed with phases
of sloppy control, incidence of
these increasing in geometric
progression. Beyond estimated
one-two-oh miles I might as
well have been home having a
beer with Julie. In passing,
Hackett, give her my love, and
the kids. And tell the brains-
trust down there the error lies
in too much punch in the
rockets and too little knowledge
about influences operating
where they’ve fired Zl. They
can find out plenty where you
are. Congratulate the climate-
control-cockpit-pressure boffins.
Till now it’s worked splendidly.
Good-bye, Hackett.”
“Good-bye, Chandler.”
THAT CREATIVE URGE
FOR years my stock of car-
pentering tools was limited
to a hammer with a loose
head, a bradawl, a screw-
driver and an old wood-rasp that
a previous tenant of a house I
once occupied had abandoned,
Then the friend whose rip-saw
I was wont to borrow whenever
a leg of lamb too large to fit in
the pot had to be sawn in halves
inherited a practically new one,
and he made me a present of the
old warrior. Its acquisition fired
me with an ambition, which
every man secretly holds, of
creating some piece of furniture
for himself.
At first I thought of starting
on something simple, like a grand
piano, but on measuring-up I
found that this would necessitate
knocking the wall through from
the lounge-room to the kitchen
to accommodate the overflow
and the back leg, whilst playing it
from inside the bathroom. I
finally settled for a palm-stand.
Now, when a woman wants to
make a hat in the latest fashion
for herself she simply goes into
a posh hat-shop, tries on a host
of hats until she finds one that
suits her, and, while the salesgirl
“Wed better see th' union about his apprenticeship .”
is hunting for something in
another color, takes a furtive
look as to how the one she is
determined to copy is made.
Then she says none of them suits
her and walks out.
Ethically reprehensible, per-
haps, but undoubtedly effective.
Yet I must say I don’t hold with
the surreptitious attitude adopted
by women when they take a
sneak-preview. What disgrace is
there in acknowledging one’s
own executional shortcomings?
I am all for the bold, frank
approach.
So it was that I turned-up in
the furniture-department of a
big city store. I had one of their
palm-stands upside-down and
was measuring across the base of
it when a salesman came up.
“Finding out if it will fit in a
corner, sir?” he asked.
“On the contrary,” I replied,
“I am determining whether
there are two or three coats of
primer under the French-polish.”
“This one hasn’t been French-
polished it’s beau-ivory!” he
explained. “Incidentally,” he
went on, “this is a gift at the
price.”
“Nothing,” I replied, “is a gift
that has a price-tag on it. Now,
would you mind holding it just
like this while I see how they’ve
managed to get the screw into
this end-grain?”
“There’s a much superior job
over here that might interest you,
sir,” he said.
“Is it made any different from
this one?” I asked.
“No,” he began, “but”
“Then it wouldn’t interest me.
You see,” I told him candidly,
“I’m not here to buy one —I pro-
pose making one myself and just
dropped in to see how they were
made.”
He looked at me sharply.
“Well, I like your nerve!” he
said hotly.
“Thank you,” I replied;
“though admiration is something
I never consciously seek. Could
you tell me if you use it hot or
cold when you glue the nails in?”
“Find out! ” he said bitterly.
“It’s cows like you who’d have
a man out of his job.”
“And would that be as great a
calamity as you so cravenly
suppose?” I asked. “Surely there
must be something you’ve had an
urge to do all your life—conduct
an orchestra, run a fish-and-chip
shop or design a fire-engine. Yet
a string of buying-customers has
kept you here in a rut, frustrated.
Let the firm chew its collective
fingernails down to the quick if
they will over the customer who
is not sufficiently boneheaded to
pay an exorbitant price for a
cheapjack article, but that should
be no skin off your nose.”
“And what do you know about
making furniture, anyway?” he
snarled. “I don’t think you’d
know a dowel from a double-
cutting bit!”
“Now there’s no need to get
your hair off,” I said calmly.
“Just tell me if it’s best to finish
off with coarse or fine sand-
paper.”
“Find out, mug!” he said;
rather rudely, I thought.
“Let me tell you,” I replied
warmly, “that I have a natural
aptitude for cabinetmaking. I
made a dog-kennel once out of a
butter-box, and it was the acme
of comfort except that the pooch
had to either back into it if he
wanted to look out the door, or
back out if he walked in head-
first. Now, I wonder how they
got these knob-things on the
top of each leg all so even? Do
you mind giving me the name of
the factory-foreman? He might
be able to put me on the right
t ra ck
“Look,” he gritted, “if you’re
not going to buy anything here
you can get out!”
“Well, I like that!” I said
sternly. “You give me an invita-
tion to come in here, and then
go crook simply because I take
a look around.”
“We didn’t invite you!” he
snapped, his voice rising. “You’d
be the last one anybody would
want in their store.”
I pointed to a large sign on
the wall which read: “Inspection
Cordially Invited.”
“You see?” I asked pointedly.
“Well, I’m here to inspect. But
where is your vaunted cordiality?
A red-bellied black-snake would
offer more. Now run along and
dust a wardrobe, or something.”
“You put that palm-stand
down!” he almost shouted.
At the sound of altercation a
floorwalker came over. “Is there
anything wrong?” he asked.
“Most certainly!” I replied.
“I take it that it is to the
advantage of the trade to
encourage a deepening interest in
furniture by customers or
potential customers?”
“Undoubtedly, sir,” he assured
me smoothly.
“Then no doubt I can count
on your co-operation,” I went
on, bending a scornful look on
his subordinate. “You see, I
propose making a palm-stand,
and I thought this might be a
suitable one to copy. My doing
so would in itself be a graceful
compliment to your firm, per-
haps even an invaluable
advertisement for it.”
The floorwalker looked first
at the palm-stand and then at me.
“You’ve made one before?” he
asked quietly, in utter contrast
to the other fellow’s overbearing
tone.
“Never,” I said. “But I”
“Then I wouldn’t advise you
to attempt this particular one
yet, sir,” he went on. “Why not
start off with one of more simple
design, such as this rosewood one
over here?” He led the way
across. “You see, plain but
elegant. Yet even this can have
snags for the unwary builder of
it. Have you done any dove-
tailing before?” he asked.
“I have heard about it
vaguely,” I replied. “Actually,
I was thinking of using galvan-
ised clouts or something you
can just bang in without any
trouble to be fussy.”
“And have you considered,”
he swept on, “that even Pacific-
maple will cost you over ten-
pounds a hundred super-feet
dressed all round, before you
even start? That if you don’t use
clamps skilfully it will go all out
of shape and you will have
poured the money for the timber
down the sink? Try it, by all
means, but I think you will find
in the end you will be well out
of pocket, taking into considera-
tion that this beautiful specimen
in magnificent rosewood —look
how the color glows in this light!
—costs only—by the way, what
did you say the furniture in your
dining-room was?”
“Walnut veneer,” I said.
“But’-
“Splendid! It will go per-
fectly with it. And when you
stop to think that this one is
reduced practically to manufac-
turer’s cost, which, of course,
is considerably less than you
could possibly make it for, you
will appreciate, being a man of
sound commonsense”
Well, what’s the use of going
on? My sales-resistance is such
that if I lived in Hell nobody
would have the slightest trouble
in selling me a heavyweight
blanket. I finished-up buying
the damn’ thing. Why do women
have to boast about their copy-
ing techniques?
BO.


Cellulose Australia, Ltd.
"DECAUSE of delivery delays occasioned
by the British dock-strike, Cellulose
Australia, Ltd., didn’t expect to have its
new plant fully installed and operating
before this month. Reconstruction of the
company’s board-machine was finished
last April, and when the stock-preparatory
system is completed the co. will be able
to “substantially increase’* both output
and quality of its paperboard.
The outbreak of war only five months
after Cellulose Australia was formed in
1939 upset the company’s building pro-
gramme, and it was not until mid-1943
that full-scale output at its mill near
Millicent, in South Australia, was
achieved. In 1946 the first dividend of
4 p.c. was paid.
From the £165,000 initially subscribed
in £1 ordinary shares in 1939, capital had
risen to £220,000 by 1943. In 1952 much
of the money which the co. had borrowed
to finance its growth was made part of
its permanent capital structure; an issue
of £126,875 ,of debentures was replaced
by 126,875 5 p.c. cumulative £1 pre-
ference-shares, and to reduce its overdraft
with the State Bank of South Australia
and to provide funds for new plant the
company made a public issue of 160,000
£1 ordinaries at par.
By keeping its dividend at a conserva-
tive figure in relation to earnings the
co. has built up considerable reserve
strength over the four years since 1952
and made financing of the reconstruction
of plant a task managed almost entirely
from its own resources.
This work and substantial price-reduc-
tions made on some grades of paperboard
e&rly in 1954 were reflected in a lower
trading profit in 1955, but, because special
depreciation provided for in the preceding
term was not considered necessary last
year, there was an improvement of £5526
in the net profit:
June To Re- Re-
-30, Profit. Pref. , Dividends— x serves, serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
New issue expenses written-off, £7758. 63,986
1952.. 80,221 487 7 p.c. =18,089 61,645 125,631
Tax underprovided, £3821 .. .. 121,810
New issue expenses written-off, £408.. 121,402
1953.. 548 6344 8 p.c. =30,150 79,054 200,456
Tax overprovided, £20,215 .. .. 220,671
To contingencies, £3533 .. .. 217,138
1954.. 6344 81 p.c. =32,284 82,125 299,263
1955.. 6344 9 „ ~34,200 85,735 384,998
A further lift of half a point in the divi-
dend in 1955 put the distribution on 9 p.c.,
and with earning-power yet to be fully
developed some additional increases of
the same order seem a likely prospect.
In the process of reconstruction and
expansion, expenditure last year on
land, buildings and plant, including works
in construction, involved a net £222,450.
Plant and machinery costing £70,656 was
written-off in 1954, with a corresponding
reduction in the separately-shown depre-
ciation provision, which evidently
accounted for the extra depreciation set
aside out of profits in that year. The
additions to fixed assets and an extra
£51,629 stocks of finished goods and
raw materials were financed mainly out
of cash (down £135,932) and the year’s
profit. The co. also carried £43,736 fewer
debtors and owed £10,160 more to credi-
tors and £21,870 due on overdraft:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £126,875 £126,875 £126,875
Ord 379,616 380,000 380,000
Reserves .. .. 200,456 303,537 384,998
Replacements, etc. 81,617 96,820 97,556
Overdraft .. 21,870
Creditors .. .. 39,433 46,238 66,398
Tax provision .. 91,075 88,216 66,000
Final diva. .. 20,176 20,272 22,172
£939,248 £1,061,458 £1,155,869
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 504,803 606,601 728,051
Stock .. .. 183,529 221,802 273,431
Debtors .. .. 161,927 184,027 140,291
Cash, etc. .. 88,989 150,028 14,096
£939,248 £1,061,458 £1,155,869
Disregarding the provision for replace-
ments and other contingencies, which
stood at £97,556 at June 30, the company’s
preference shares have a net tangible
cover of £7 os. 7d. and the ordinaries a
cover of 40s. 7d.
At 375. on Adelaide ’Change the £1
ords. give an immediate yield of £4 17s.
per cent, on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Rex Investments, Ltd.
DAPID growth has distinguished the
recent career of this Sydney hotel-
and property-owning organisation, and on
the indications it seems likely to continue
at a vigorous pac%for some time to come.
It began as an offshoot of L. J. Hooker,
Ltd., a live-wire Sydney real-estate con-
cern, and it has inherited & good deal
of its sponsor’s enterprise.
Following poor returns from the com-
pany’s real-estate operations in the 1952
recession it was decided to concentrate
on developing the more profitable hotel-
operating section of the business. As
the result of this policy a chain of nine
hotels has been established, and others
are planned. The company itself has done
most of the work involved in remodelling
old properties and building new hotels
through its subsidiary, Rex Building Co.
Pty., Ltd.
Last term a new hotel was opened at
St. Mary’s (where the Commonwealth
munitions-factory is being erected), near
Sydney, and to cope with the increased
business following introduction of
10-o’clock closing in New South Wales
on February 1, 1955, a programme was
begun to enlarge facilities at a number
of hotels.
Since the close of accounts on June
30 the company has added to its string
the Carlton Hotel in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, and the Sea Breeze Hotel at Tom
Ugly’s Point. Acquisition of the Carl-
ton, effected by buying all the £165,000
share-capital of Carlton Investments, Ltd.,
cost £409,250 —paid in cash, £278,000,
and 525,000 ss. shares in Rex Investments.
The cash side of the deal was financed
by the sale of 556,000 ss. Rex shares at
10s. each, thus reducing the actual cost
to Rex, in terms of the par-value of shares
issued, to £270,375. The Carlton property
was valued recently at around £600,000.
Bought at auction in July, the Sea Breeze
Hotel cost £185,000.
During the current term it is planned
to make extensive renovations to the
Carlton to provide every bedroom with
a bath and to remodel the hotel’s bars
and public rooms. Additions will also be
made to the Sea Breeze Hotel and to the
Ainslie-Rex Hotel at Canberra. Con-
struction of the co.’s Bondi hotel will be
completed this year, and work begun on
two others, at Miranda in Sydney and a
seven-story fully-licensed hotel at Brad-
don, in the Australian Capital Territory.
As well as these projects the company
says it has available, or is negotiating to
acquire, six hotel licences, but local-
government objections have so far delayed
building.
The once-profitable real-estate activi-
ties have been revived with the formation,
in association with L. J. Hooker, Ltd., of
Australian Subdivisions Pty., Ltd. The
company has already acquired for
development properties at Bateman’s Bay,
on the N.S.W. South Coast, and at Palm
Beach (near Surfers’ Paradise in Queens-
land) and the old Moorefieid Racecourse
in Sydney.
Including the operations of the seven
hotels trading at June 30 and the build-
ing subsidiaries, Rex Building Co. and
Western Suburbs Brickworks Pty., Ltd.,
the group’s net profit rose £21,608 to
£84,160, after providing undisclosed
amounts for depreciation and income-tax:
To Re- Re-
June Profit, f- Dividend . serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £1554 .. 6,281
Share premiums, £101,475 .. .. 107,756
1951.. 25,916 10 p.c. = 19,182 6,734 114,490
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £260 .. 114,750
Prom share premiums, £9217 .. 105,533
1952.. 1,231 Nil 1,231 106,764
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £509 . . 107,273
1953.. 19,026 5 p L q. = 19,291 107,008
Add subsidiary’s reserves, £169 .. 107,177
Profit sale shares, £483 .. .. 107,660
Intangibles written-off, £7637 .. 100,023
1954.. 62,552 9 p.c. = 38,848 23,704 123,727
Assets revalued, £453,902 .. .. 577,629
Less subsidiary’s reserves, £lO .. 577,619
Intangibles written-off, £4837 ..' 572,782
1955.. 84,160 10 p.c. = 67,638 16,522 589,304
* Subject to intangibles, £15,348, 30/6/’55.
On average capital employed, the year’s
profit was 15.9 p.c., as compared with
14.5 p.c. in 1954, 4.9 p.c. in 1953, 0.3
p.c. in 1952 and 13.5 p.c. in 1951. As a
substantial amount of capital was outlaid
in projects not yet earning income, the
results are considered “very satisfactory.”
Additional funds will be required for the
building programme, and as this will not
become fully revenue-producing until the
1957 term a lower earning-rate is expected
this year. The present 10 p.c. dividend-
rate, however, will not be affected. The
company intends to make a par-issue of
shares early this year, and other funds
will be raised by an issue of registered
unsecured notes.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the ex-
pansion :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. i 954. 1955.
Paid capital £384,612 £462,450 £621,574
Reserves .. .. 107,008 123,727 589,304
Mortgage .. .. 261,404 481,317 563,047
Overdraft .. 49,705 45,214 9,181
Creditors, etc. .. 145,752 112,125 166,417
Final div. .. 19,291 23,123 43,092
£967,772 £1,247,956 £1,992,615
Freehold land, build-
ings .. .. 543,171 747,339 1,346,815
Leaseholds hotels,
etc 135,583 137,171 187,443
Plant .. ~ 145,624 235,705 286,300
Investments .. 22,833 10,425 6,161
Stocks .. .. 34,844 36,204 51,868
Debtors .. .. 38,440 58,814 94,114
Cash .. .. 7,857 3,488 4,566
Intangibles .. 48,420 18,810 15,348
£967,772 £1,247,956 £1,992,615
Freehold land and buildings are up
£599,476, due chiefly to the writing-up of
hotel premises which added £453,902 to
reserves. Including the Carlton and Sea
Breeze hotels, the value of the co.’s free-
hold and leasehold properties and equip-
ment is put at over £2,600,000.
Based on the balance-sheet position at
June 30, the co.’s ss. scrip has a net tan-
gible asset backing of 9s. 7d. Quoted at
present at about Bs., the shares return 6 \
p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend.
National Bag Co. of Australia, Ltd.
COME useful increases in profit have
been recorded by National Bag since
the slight decline in business of 1952,
but last year, in “highly competitive” con-
ditions and because of the need to provide
for much higher depreciation, apparently
on the assets of a subsidiary acquired in
1954, there was a slip in net earnings
of £3489.
Present holding company was formed
originally as a private concern, in 1950,
to take over the capital of A. Abrahams
and Sons Pty., Ltd., and its subsidiary
Jute Traders Pty., Ltd., for a considera-
tion of 450,000 £1 shares (later split into
ss. shares) in the new co. A par-issue of
100,000 5 p.c. £1 cum. prefs. followed and,
in 1951, to put the company on a public
basis, shareholders were offered for sale
660,000 ss. stock-units at 6s. 9d. each.
From its factories in Melbourne (where
the business was first established in
1908) and Sydney the co. turns out bags,
sacks and wrappings of all descriptions,
including calico, hessiaifand jute bags and
sacks, open-mesh bags, multi-wall paper
bags, plastic bags and fabrics, meat-wrap-
pers, waterproof and bituminised wrap-
pings, rustproof coil-wrappings for steel
and metals, wall- and roof-linings and
case-liners. It is also a big importer of
bulk hessians and jute-goods, and oper-
ates a recovering and repair section for
used bags.
Activities were extended to textiles in
1954 with the acquisition of Rayon Silk
and Calico Printers of Australia Ptv.,
Ltd., for £355,000, £50,000 of which was
reinvested in National Bag scrip at par.
The operating co., Colortex Pty., Ltd.,
which is said to have a most up-to-date
roller-printing and dyeing plant, pro-
duces dress-materials, shirtings and
tapestries.
The new activities, which were added to
last year by the production of durably-
pleated fabrics, helped to compensate for
the lower earnings of the bag-making
company in 1954 due to the drop in flour-
exports, although the overall improvement
evident in the table was not as great as
the figures suggest because of spdtial
depreciation of £15,000 on buildings in
1953.
Last term the co. found it necessary
to set aside an extra £15,542 for ordinary
depreciation (£36,634) and £1357 more
for taxation (£62,053) before writing net
profit at £98,756:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref., Ord. serves, serves.*
30, 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exp. written-off, £1430.. 280,681
1951.. 69,568 9 p.c. =40,500 29,068 309,749
Profit sale assets, £llB .. .. 309,867
Tax overprovided, £4621 .. .. 314,488
Preliminary exp. written-off, £5148.. 309,340
From asset revaluation res., £2633.. 306,707
1952.. 67,752 5000 9 p.c. =40,500 22,252 328,959
Tax overprovided, £3997 .. .. 332,956
Loss on plant, £3351 .. .. .. 329,605
1953.. 80,782 5000 9 p.c. =40,500 35,282 364,887
Add subsidiary’s reserves, £60,570.. 425,457
Loss on plant, £4319 .. .. 421,138
Prelim, exp., etc., written-off, £3109 418,029
1954.. 102,245 5000 10 p.c. =45,833 61,412 469,441
Profit sale assets, £15,275 .. .. 484,716
Prelim, exp., etc., written-off, £541.. 484,175
1955.. 98,756 5000 10 p.c. =50,000 43,756 527,931
♦Subject to intangibles, £538,212 at 30/6/’55.
As a percentage of ordinary capital the
£98,756 earned was 18.7 p.c., compared
with 21.2 p.c. (on average capital) in 1954,
16.8 p.c. in 1953, 13.9 p.c. in 1952 and
11.1 p.c. in 1951.
Investment in working-assets has risen
substantially since 1953: in the balance-
sheet land and buildings, after allowing
for depreciation, appear £137,946 higher
and plant, machinery, etc., £162,925
higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 450,000 600,000' 500,000
Reserves .. .. 364,761 471,035 527,930
Notes .. .. 180,000 180,000
Overdraft .. .. 83,460 262,112 248,483
Creditors, etc. .. 102,376 160,312 334,182
Tax provision .. 97,481 71,852 62,843
Final divs. .. 22,750 25,833 27,500
£1,220,828 £1,771,144 £1,980,938
Freeholds .. 248,189 353,166 386,135
Plant .. 202,475 330,010 365,400
Investment .. 6,064 11,067 16,139
Stock .. .. 103,193 294,433 338,899
Debtors .. .. 190,730 257,759 334,653
Cash, bonds .. 41,439 1,500 1,500
Intangibles .. 428,738 523,209 538,212
£1,220,828 £1,771,144 £1,980,938
Most of these and other additions to
stock and debtors have been financed on
borrowed funds on terms favorable
enough to provide a lift in the earning-
rate on ordinary capital, which was
already receiving a fair amount of
support from the cheap (5 p.c.) pref.
money in the business.
At June 30 the co.’s outside debt
totalled £762,665, as against £1,127,930
of shareholders’ funds, including in-
tangibles.
Debtors moved upwards encouragingly
last term, although profit-margins have
become finer, and finances may become
easier, until which an advance on the
current 10 p.c. dividend-rate, it would
seem, must wait. Latest import-restrictions
should favor the company over the
present term: quotas of jute and hessian
were unaffected, while further cuts were
made in imports of rayon and cotton tex-
tiles.
All but £2 of the intangibles shown in
the balance-sheet represent goodwill paid
to acquire the subsidiary companies,
against which the co. sets pre-acquisition
profits and reserves of £365,512. Asset-
backing for the £1 prefs., net of all
intangibles, is £5 17s. lid., and for the ss.
ords. 4s. lid. Priced at 75., the ords
return 7.1 p.c.; the prefs. are not quoted
Lithgow Valley Colliery Co., Ltd.
TN the market-wide reappraisal of share-
-*■ prices that has taken place in recent
months the scrip of 55-year-old Lithgow
Valley Colliery has fared rather badly.
Already at a pretty substantial discount
on 'Change—even at the 1955 market
peak the £1 shares sold for no more than
16s. 3d.—the co.’s scrip has slipped to
125., to return a long 13.3 p.c. The
1955-56 interim has just been maintained
at 8 p.c.
The company supplies high-grade coal
to New South Wales State railways from
its two collieries at Lithgow and near-by
Hermitage, where much has been done
lately to modernise production.. Since
1951, when capital-expenditure allowances
granted to other types of mining were
applied to the coal-industry, £149,693
expended by the co. on new mining- and
handling-equipment has been written-off
out of profits.
After deducting this expenditure and
making the usual provision for ordinary
depreciation, amortisation of leases and
taxation, Lithgow Valley’s profits over
the five years it has been a public company
are as follows:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. , Dividend serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £
1951 .. 26,712 8 p.c. = 24,000 2,712 30,687
Tax underprovided, £5OOO .. 25,687
1952 .. 46,041 8 p.c. s= 24,000 &>,d4l 47,728
Unexplained reduction, £l3 .. .. 47,715
1953 .. 30,263 8 p.c. = 24,000 6,263 53,978
Unexplained reduction, £37 .. .. 53,941
1954 .. 15,598 8 p.c. = 24,000 45,539
1955 .. 25,149 8 „ „ 24,000 1,149 46,688
The return on share-capital represented
by the figures is 8.9 p.c. 1951, 15.3 p.c.
1952, 10.1 p.c. 1953, 5.2 p.c. 1954 and 8.4
p.c. 1955, a fair enough achievement when
it is considered that plant-expenditure will
benefit future earnings as well. However,
the wide fluctuation in results due to these
deductions (£16,050 in 1952, £63,178
1953, £64,455 1954 and £5943 in 1955)
tends to obscure a downward trend in
profits that has coincided with the appear-
ance of new problems for the black-coal
industry.
Because of high production - costs,
greater use is being made of alternative
fuels such as brown-coal and residual-oil,
and difficulty has also arisen in the dis-
posal of the larger proportion of small
coal to total output which has accom-
panied the mechanisation of production.
New steel-making and electricity-
generating plant may help to sustain
demand, and the State railways will un-
doubtedly continue to be a big user of
coal for years ahead, but the chief solu-
tion to the present crisis of overproduc-
tion lies in improving quality and pro-
duction-efficiency.
Lithgow Valley has at present on order
a coal-washing plant which should help
it in the former respect. The cost of
the plant was apparently provided for out
of earnings in 1954; at June 30 £50,000
stood to the credit of new-plant account,
and cash, bonds and investments, the
last at cost or lower, amounted to
£202,521. The two collieries at their
amortised value were entered at £110,460
and plant, etc., less depreciation and
amounts written off, at £66,598:
1963. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Reserves .. . • 48,978 45,539 46,688
New plant appropriation 50,000 50,000
Creditors . . . • 55,408 23,327 25,198
Tax provision . . .. 24,000 6,500 15,100
Final div 12,000 1 2,000 12,000
£440,386 £437,366 £448,986
Collieries .. .. 128,186 116,106 110,460
Land, homes .. .. 16,467 16,467 11>91<
Plant etc . . • • 70,330 63,946 66,098
Investments .. .. 32,151 37,62 6 68,031
Stores • • • • 13,925 \ 10,633 11,326
Debtors, etc 83,905 52,568 46,164
Cash, bonds, etc. .. 95,422 140,020 134,490
£440,386 £437,366 £448,986
Net tangible asset support (on book-
values) for the 300,000 £1 shares (con-
solidated from the 360,000 16s. Bd. shares
of the private co. on conversion in 1951)
is 235. Id.


Morning-newspaper Nights
Things That Go Bump
By C. McNEIL
WHEN most people are
going to work the morn-
ing - newspaper offices
are empty shells. The
typewriters are inert, the scores
of phones are quiet. The empty
corridors might echo to the
whistling of an office-boy, but
that is about all.
When most people are getting
home at night, the newspaper
is coming alive. The nets are
out. The news is coming in.
As the night goes on the song
the office sings gets louder and
quicker. The typewriters clatter,
the phones ring incessantly, tele-
printers come in with their
peculiar rattle, and the radios in
the police-rounds room are
shouting.
If the windows are open, you
can hear, a bit later, a sound
like metallic rain reflected back
from a few floors above by the
near-by buildings. It comes from
the big banks of linotype-
machines.
Later still, from floors below
the earth a slow rumbling starts,
getting quicker and, quicker. The
presses are rolling.
All this bedlam of noises is a
normal part of a night’s work.
It is actually the only part of the
night’s work that is always there
unchanging. The rest of the
things that happen are different
*very time, for to the people
who work in a morning-news-
paper every night is a separate
entity.
Things will happen that have
never happened before, and
in the morning there will be
something new under the sun.
If it were any different they
would not be bringing out a
“newspaper,” but just so many
columns of print.
And when the reporters, the
photographers, the subs and the
others slip themselves into gear
with the tempo of the night and
move along with it at whatever
speed it happens to be going
(it’s never quite the same) some
odd things can happen.
* * *
Things can go haywire even in
the act of such a routine matter
as the chief sub-editor calling
to the copy-boy “Chute this.”
One night the chief-sub finished
with the front-page lead-story,
the big one that carries the head-
lines and makes the poster. He
beckoned to a copy-boy to
“chute” it.
The copy-boy was new. He
had most things organised, but
he was not too clear on the
procedure of how to “chute”
a thick wad of copy.
One of the subs looked up
from his work and pointed with
his thumb to a couple of big
air-chute pipes leading down
one side of the room.
The copy-boy had seen things
like them in stores, where they
put your money in a'container
and push it into a hole and shut
the lid, and a little later your
change comes back.
The only way these chutes
differed was that one of them
went to the compositors, not the
cashiers, and there was never
any change.
Having extended a helping
thumb, the sub went back to
his work. They were going flat-
out, and did not watch what
the boy was doing.
The boy noticed that there
were two sizes of carriers near
the chutes, so he crammed the
copy into the smaller size, where
it fitted nicely. He noticed then
that the openings to the two
chutes were side by side, so he
put his small container in the
small-sized chute and watched
it disappear, marvelling.
No one had thought to explain
to him the purposes of the two
chutes. He did not know, there-
fore, that it was' the big chute
he should have used, for it led
up to the linotype-room. He
did not know that the little chute
he had used went direct to the
G.P.0., to facilitate getting press-
telegrams in and out of the
newspaper.
At any rate, the lead-story of
the paper—in the nature of a
special scoop, as they like to
have these things—sped to the
G.P.O.
There, a conscientious em-
ployee opened it and rightly con-
cluded that there had been some
mistake. He decided to be help-
ful, so he put the story back in
the carrier and sent it off to the
newspaper he thought it had
come from.
Why he thought it had come
from the rival newspaper, which
has exactly the same sort of
chute leading from the G.P.0.,
isn’t known. Maybe that was
the one he read.
When the panic was well under
way back at the office which
had somehow lost its lead-story,
the chief-sub’s phone rang. It
was his opposite-number at the
rival paper.
“Stone the crows!”
The rival sub said it looked a
reasonable story, perhaps scrap-
pily subbed, but passable on a
poor night. But they already
had one, thanks. Would they
like it back?
It came back the same way it
had gone, and about three subs
very painstakingly showed the
copy-boy how to put copy in the
big carrier, and how this one led
up to the compositors, who were
men with big machines that
could do something about get-
ting the story in the paper!
* * *
About midnight with the first
way, thd subs have time for a
pause and to think about making
themselves a cup of tea.
One night, it is recorded, one
of them was hunting way back
in a cupboard, looking for bis-
cuits, when he came across a
dusty old shoe-box.
He opened it and found it
full of turkey-quills.
How could they possibly have
got there? After sorife discus-
sion, the subs came to the con-
elusion that the quills were a left-
over from the dim old days when
subs used quill-pens on copy,
These were original quills!
This idea was kicked around
for a while, and someone sug-
gested that it was good enough
to be used in the paper’s column
that morning. So out came a
par. about something else and in
went a par. about the old-time
quills.
Next morning the chap who
works in the subs’ room by day,
sorting out the cables and early
teleprinter-copy, was heard
muttering curses as he hunted
through the cupboard. Some-
one had pinched his quills.
On his days off and on most
nights this chap spent his time
in his backyard-factory making
gear for the city’s archers. The
turkey-quills were raw material
for “flights” for his arrows.
He had placed them in the old
shoe-box and hid it well back
in the cupboard purposely to
avoid pilfering fingers, and now
look what had happened!
Later, he read the morning’s
paper with its par. about the
quills, and left the subs a
brilliant reply, but they weren’t
game to use it.
* * *
Over the years newspapers
have worked out a fairly effi-
cient system for covering most
events.
Some of the ’ reporters are
“roundsmen” each of them
looking after a different con-
tinuous source of news. There
are police - roundsmen, who
cover anything police do ; civic-
roundsmen, who look after the
city and suburban councils;
State- and Federal-roundsmen,
who handle the Parliaments;
employers’ - roundsmen, union-
roundsmen, shipping-rounds-
men, aviation-roundsmen, and
even weather-roundsmen.
With a batch of general
reporters who can be sent out
to deal with anything else that
happens, the paper has a
reasonable cover.
By midnight on a quiet night
most of these reporters are on
their way home.
Everything looked quiet one
night. The only reporter still
working was the police-rounds-
man, who would go on until
3 a.m. as usual. The subs were
chattering as they made a few
minor alterations to the paper.
Things had got down to a
leisurely pace.
Then it started to rain cats
and dogs. Half-an-hour passed,
and the phones started ringing.
From all over the city and
suburbs came stories of flooded
streets, basements full of water,
and roofs being lifted off by the
wind. Within a few minutes it
had built itself up into a first-
class weather-story. The only
thing lacking was that there was
no one to cover it.
The police-roundsman was
out at, of all things, a fire. He
was away from the police-
rounds car for a while, and thus
out of radio-contact.
So subs who hadn’t reported
for years were on the phones
taking down stories, and then
hitting them out in fine style,
though slowly, on the type-
writers.
One of the paper’s reporters,
who had been having the night
off with his latest undying love,'
called in with her to pick up his
raincoat, and was grabbed by
the chief-of-staff. The reporter
h4d to leave his girl lamenting
on the front-steps of the office
as he was whisked off in a car
to attend to some of the
weather.
A photographer, who had
been working late, saw what
was happening, and made a
move to escape when the coast
was clear. was caught with
his finger on the very lift-button
and was sent forth on to the
job.
With pungent on - the - spot
reporting, some dramatic night-
photos and some lyrical prose
from the subs it turned out. a
good story.
The photographer thinks that
by going up a couple of floors
he will have a future escape-
route down a fire-escape which
should be foolproof.
The reporter is still looking
for a wife —that prospect
decided on her experience to get
out while the going was good.
* * *
Most photographers and
journalists have evolved plans
similar to that photographer’s
for not being caught, just on
knock-off time, for things have
a habit of happening just then.
But the best evasive action ever
taken in one establishment was
quite unintentional.
Word came in right on knock-
off that two trams had collided
and that many people were
injured (it turned out later to be
a furphy).
From those about to go home,
the chief-of-staff caught one
carload to send on the job, and
was gathering hands for another.
He saw a man slowly walking
down the corridor towards his
office, quite oblivious of the
tense drama going on around
him.
This man said later he was
coming along for the usual
check to see if it would be all
right to turn it in fob the night.
The chief-of-staff called to
him as he approached: “Grab
your hat and coat, Fred!”
Fred took him at his word,
said “Thanks,” grabbed his hat
and coat, and went home.
V * *
Then there was the
diplomat . . .
It was like something out of
Wuthering Heights. The wind
was whistling through the trees
around the big old mansion.
Rain pelted down and frequent
lightning showed the path up to
the door.
The gentleman who lived in
the mansion was a kind of
honorary diplomat. He had
recently announced his inten-
tion of going overseas and seeing
for himself, for the first time,
the country he represented.
His motives of personal edu-
cation might have been good,
but some local citizens thought
that he should first of all give
them some undertakings, so
they had been undiplomatic to
the extent of slapping a writ on
him to prevent his leaving the
country.
The reporter making his way
up to the door did not know
what the diplomat looked like.
He noticed, as he passed a
window of the mansion, that
inside were a middle-aged man
and an elderly woman who
appeared to be busy packing.
He belted on the door-knocker
and the wind whistled around
his ears.
The woman came to the door,
and the reporter asked her if
Mr. So-and-So, the honorary
diplomat, lived there.
“Oh, no,” she said. “He lives
about three places down.”
The reporter left, and found
that three-places-down was a
vacant block.
He went back to the office
and got on the phone to some-
one who knew what the hon-
orary diplomat looked like. It
was the man he had seen, all
right; the one who had been
packing with the elderly woman.
The reporter decided to play it
hard. He got a photographer,
and they went back out to the
mansion.
They kept an eye on the place
for a while as they laid their
plans. When they sighted the
honorary diplomat, the photo-
grapher would shoot first and
ask questions after. The
reporter’s story would be one
of how the diplomat had
endeavored to avoid the press.
Waiting in the darkness, they
saw him come outside and put
some rubbish in a bin.
They quietly walked up on
him, but he spotted them, and
he fairly beamed with goodwill.
“Ah, the press—what paper
are you?” he said.
They told him.
“Well,” he said, “I want to
make a detailed statement on
this matter. I think what I want
to say should have some good
repercussions for you that’s
what you like, eh?”
The reporter nodded. It was
going all right, after all.
“Let’s see,” said the diplomat.
(Continued on page 27)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Noel McGrowdie added yet
another Oakleigh Plate to his
remarkable list of wins in im-
portant events. On Lucky Stride
he downed hot favorite Apple
Bay in the final stages of the 5)
furlongs at Caulfield last Satur-
day. Lucky Stride was formerly
trained by Jack Morgan, but
Bill Kelso has him now and has
done well with the gelding,
though form immediately before
the Oakleigh didn’t point to
Lucky Stride having much
chance ; started at 33 to 1 and
on the tote paid 48 to 1. Fas-
cinating ran a good sort of third
behind Apple Bay. It was Mc-
Growdie’s third Oakleigh, his
previous winners being Bird-
wood and Tahmoor.
The performance of King’s
Fair in the Oakleigh, though he
was unplaced, was considered a
pointer to the V.R.C. Newmarket
Handicap and he has been
installed favorite for the sprint
up the Flemington straight-six
on March 10. Sydney light-
weight Alahvii was never a hope
in the Caulfield sprint, but will
be more at home over the Flem-
ington six.
Summalu, winner of the
Trenton Stakes at Caulfield, was
bred in New Zealand, realising
875gns. at the Dominion auction
last year. The colt is by Summer-
time (imp.) from Lady Lu by
Raceful from Welcome Lu by
Lucullus (imp.).
Somerset Fair had an exercise
canter to win Caulfield’s St.
George Stakes; neither of his
two opponents —First Century
and Ribera —could even make
him gallop. Ribera was eight
lengths from the winner at the
finish, but that faraway placing
earned £250 for his owner.
Somerset Fair has now won
£20,336 in stakes from 16 wins,
four seconds and three thirds. At
the moment he’s popular for the
Doncaster.
Bought for 400gns. at the
Randwick sales last year, the
Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.) filly
Fair Pride (to be retired later to
Glen Devon Stud, Victoria) won
last Saturday’s opening event at
Rosehill, the Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies. Third at
Randwick to Blue Rhapsody at
her prior start, she is a sister to
Native Ruler, a winner in Bris-
bane, and is related to former
well-known gallopers Manrico
and Chanak, and to Love To
All. Dam of Fair Pride, La
Glacis, is by Le Grand Due
(imp.) from Glade by Spearhead
(imp.) from LuGina by The
Welkin (imp.).
Two-year-old filly Abstain,
raced on lease by Randwick
trainer Ted Hush, is close to her
first win, judging by latest efforts.
She was a fast-finishing third to
Fair Pride and Smile in the Rose-
hill Maiden for fillies, and with
a little further to go would have
won the race.
Count Olin towered above
Rosehill rivals in the Two-year-
old Maiden for colts and geld-
ings, and his excellent condition
reflected credit on local trainer
Jack Daniels, who also started
Stockwise, Hombre and Bouton
in the same race. Showing
brilliant speed, Count Olin won
the sprint by several lengths, and
later he might be tested in Mel-
bourne. He beat a moderate
lot, so his first success mightn’t
be a sound guide, but he is a
big, strong youngster, related to
some New Zealand stayers of
note. He comes from the family
which produced Commendation,
Honour and Battle Dress, three
winners of the New Zealand
Derby. Count Olin (Nilo back-
wards) is by Nilo (imp.) from
Posture by Spiral from Impos-
ture by Posterity (imp.)
Sons and daughters of Nilo
(imp.) keep on winning, and
another was added to the list
when Fernlo cleared out with
Doomben’s Second Two-year-
old Handicap. The colt cost
owners A. C. Little and R. W.
Powell 600gns. at the Randwick
sales of yearlings last April. His
family - lines include Silver
Standard, Alister and Edelweiss.
Silver Standard was one of the
unluckiest horses to have worn
a bridle, because he was beaten
a neck in the 1936 Melbourne
Cup by Wotan in what was then
Australian record time, was
twice second in the Metropoli-
tan, and was also second in the
1936 Caulfield Cup, to North-
wind. Fern, dam of the Doom-
ben winner, is by Excitement
(imp.) from Ranmore (imp.) by
Syndrian.
Caulfield’s 59th Futurity
Stakes of £4250 will highlight
Melbourne racing this coming
Saturday. The line-up is
expected to include most of the
best horses and a keen contest
is anticipated. A weight-for-age
event with varying penalties and
allowances, the Futurity has
been won mostly by horses
carrying upwards of 9.7. Last
season Prince Cortauld had an
easy task. He started at 5 to 4
and beat Coppice and Racon-
teur, all placegetters carrying
penalties.
Ajax won the Futurity three-
in-a-row: 1938-39-40, ridden
on each occasion by Harold
Badger. Since 1940 J. Purtell
and W. Williamson have each
had three winning rides.
Attley’s 1.24, in 1947, is race-
record for the seven furlongs.
This time, Kingster and Copper
Year may fight out the finish.
Randwick trainer M. Mc-
Carten will have one runner
only at the V.R.C. autumn meet-
ing, which will open next Satur-
day week. My Kingdom, class
two-year-old, will contest the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, which
stablemate Knave (nice winner
of the Flying at Rosehill last
Saturday) won last year from
Chetnik and Magic Nib. Knave
was the first McCarten-trained
winner of that classic, but as a
jockey McCarten himself won
the race on Royal Feast, Kuvera
and Sir John.
At Warwick Farm next Satur-
day Connaught, Indian Empire,
Fire Dust and Prince Da'nte
may be in the line-ups. Trainer
Fred Allsop had hoped to begin
Connaught’s autumn racing in
last Saturday’s Rosehill Flying,
but the heavy track upset plans,
and Connaught may now open
in Denham Court Handicap.
Maybe the Turf has seen the
last of Rising Fast, who went
amiss in Melbourne last week
and has had to leave the autumn
round of weight-for-age contests
to others, most prominent of
which may be another from the
Dominion, Somerset Fair, now
trained at Randwick by T. J.
Smith. Rising Fast’s Mel-
bourne trainer, Fred Hoysted, is
hoping for the best, but the
champion has competed in 57
races and has been through some
strenuous campaigns, and
reports are not promising.
Winning £63,165 in stakes (a
record for this part of the
world), Rising Fast was success-
ful on 23 occasions, was 14£
times second and twice third.
Trained at Randwick by
Frank Selkrig for his wife, who
will race the filly on lease till
June, 1958, Flames is a speedy
type and a winner at Can-
terbury. She is a half-sister
to Roman Holiday, both
from Eternal City (imp.),
the dam of Fort William and
Redeswood, two other winners
in smart company. Eternal City,
an unraced mare, is by Epigram
from Fair City by Fairway. Sel-
krig rode two more winners at
Rosehill last Saturday.
* * *
Everyone but Arch Egan him-
self, it seems, ha'd Blue Gamble’s
Inter-Dominion heat-win down
to good driving by Egan and
two “dream”-runs. In Saturday’s
first heat Egan’s reinsmanship
was as polished as ever, but there
were no “dream”-runs —and Blue
Gamble led them in more con-
incingly than the previous week.
Whether or not the old fellow
was showing six-year-old son
Pamboli—third in the first race
—just how to do it, he did it
well and has now piled enough
points for a certain start in the
final, in which he must rate a
sound show.
Over past months Blue
Gamble has been hiked north
and south, running always sound
races, but never looking an Inter-
Dominion winner ; * but Egan’s
patient training-routine often
by post, incidentally, to an off-
sider at Bankstown (N.S.W.) —
may yet pay-off in full. Esquire
was a pleasing second, Andi a
solid third, after a hard run.
Brucus ran a sour race ; Set Point
had it too hard for a raw four-
year-old ; and Our Roger, from
leg-trouble and a chequered
preparation, pulled-up distressed.
In the second heat, N.Z. mare
Thelma Globe lived up to the
best of reports about her with a
“You had him Worried that round. He thought he'd
killed you.”
scintillating victory that required
a lap-and-a-half sprint in the
centre 'of the course—and she
looked ready for another circuit.
How she will cope with the
speed-merchants m the two-fur-
longs-less final, for which she is
now it is hard to say.
Certainly shes one of the best
mares sighted for a long time.
Young Wexford came from a
long way back, scraping the out-
side paint, for a sound second,
an .d anyone shopping for some-
thmg pricey might watch him.
Van Hall had every show, but
may have been forced to move
too soon, and his third was a
decent run. Vedette was lustre-
less on the night alongside his
sister-Enzedder; First Variety
lost a lot of ground early and
finished well; Dainty Rose,
twisted-about like a paralysed
crab, straightened - out well
enough to finish fourth.
. . . .
With the pace to suit, Mineral
Spring breezed along in his heat
always near the lead, shot clear
at the Flat and. rollicked to the
post a good winner It might
be wrong to get any fancy ideas
on him from the manner of his
win—not that he won’t be a big
danger in the final, but that the
15i suits his brand of brilliance,
and may actually be his pet
distance. Caduceus was a long
way from the fence throughout,
being asked to coast four-gigs
the circumstances he
found it too hard to concede the
winner 24yds.; but his run was
a smart one. Frosty Nelson, from
the West, bustled out of a box
to run on well for third money ;
he wouldn’t have blown a candle
on the line. Springfield Guy
had the race parcelled-up at the
bell, but came back to the ruck
in the last lap. He will yet run
a slippery 13 furlongs. At time
of writing the final (13i furlongs)
is due on Friday.
In an earlier event on the same
card as' her Derby-winning
brother Young Wexford, chest-
nut filly Lady Wexford was a
stylish winner of the 10-furlongs
Three-year-old Stakes. Quickly
sent to the lead, she was never
pushed at any stage to win by
three lengths from one of the
snappiest bunch of three-year-
olds to line-up at Harold Park.
Nick Scott, slow to move, was
her closest pursuer, and ran a
good trial. Western Districts
Derby winner Reckless Raider,
a son of promising sire Loyal
Raider, came from the clouds
for third. The winner is by
Young Bob, from Wexford
Rose, another daughter of Jack
Potts.
+ +•
With the backstroke, domin-
ated by Theile, the main excep-
tion, Australia has at present
several swimmers in each division
little "inferior to one another and
most of them in world-class. For
instance, among the sprint-
swimmers, there are Henricks,
Chapman, Devitt, Weld and,
overseas, Hawkins and Aubrey,
any of whom could win an
Olympic gold-medal. In the
longer distances there are Rose,
Garretty and Winram, with
Chapman, too, possibly, among
the 440yds. stars,
. .
Among the girls> Dawn
p raser ’ s winning of the AuS-
trajjan noyds. freestyle title
f rom Lorraine Crapp shows that
a j so there are several run-
njng j eve i a t the top—for Vic-
torian Faith Leech ranks with
these two. In winning, Dawn
Fraser set new world t ime
(54,25ec.) for 100 metres, beat-
j ng Willi den Ouden’s 1936
record 0 f 64.65ec. Which, in-
cidentally points to Australia’s
need for pools meaS ured in
m etric distances, to conform to
p rac ti ce everywhere overseas,
. . ,
“Keima’ : Manager of the
Australian cricket-team to West
Indies was Queenslander Jack
Burge, whose son Peter was in
the team - Another Queensland
father-and-son combination in
o( his State . s
(eam s d for the Aus .
tralian swimming-championships,
wi h his so 4 D^;d
bes[ backstroker has
ad
.
™ XT o w • t a. a
N #' W ', C ™ ke ‘ As f cl ’
ations Year-book has long
Stored, on its front-cover, a
drawing of the famous action-
? hot 0 Vl ?? r Tl n U ™ v- r \ ) ar ?P~
mg out to drive. But Victor has
now been dropped. In his place,
on the ,a ' e f (18*) edition, a full-
P a « e P koto ?*. Kelth MUler-
dnvin« throu S h the covers-
....
The wickets “presented” to
Lindwall in the fifth Test in
1954-55 to give him 100 wickets
in Tests against England—in the
belief that he was then playing
his last Test against England—
were, it seems, needlessly sacri-
ficed. For Lindwall, still a
bowler of top rank, should make
the Test side over there. Sur-
prisingly, Lindwall has been
passed over for Langley as the
third team-selector. Fine player
as Langley is, Lindwall is senior
Test-player and a very astute
judge of cricket and of cricketers.
Like Benaud, Alan Davidson
is an enigma of Australian
cricket. He hasn’t really lived
up to his first promise of becom-
ing a record-maker in the all-
round tradition of Noble and
Giffen. Before he had estab-
lished himself in the N.S.W. side
he had to his credit one of his
best bowling - efforts (7-49,
against Q., 1950-51) and had
made his top Shield score (76,
against Vic., 1951-52). Then
there was that unique double of
his in Mar., 1950, on the tour of
N.Z. when he took 10-29 and
made 157 not-out admittedly
against a second-class team. This
Shield season he did just enough,
but no more, to get his fourth
overseas tour.
• • • •’
“Wusslean”: A Surrey (Eng.)
cricketer named Swetman, tour-
ing Pakistan with the M.C.C.,
has suggested that wicketkeepers
be provided with a strong mesh
face-guard, somewhat like that
used by baseball-catchers, but
in the form of a visor hung from
the peak of the cap—for pro-
tection against fast-bowling, of
course. Swetman should know
the wicketkeeper’s feelings on
the subject; he’s already had his
nose broken and an eye-wound
which had to have surgical
stitching.
Once again there are a Pons-
ford and a Woodfull playing in
Melbourne’s pennant - cricket —
both sons, and both, too, Bills.
Ponsford, jnr., like his dad used
to, opens for Melbourne —a slow
and dogged batsman, unlike his
dad. Young Woodfull has just
reached senior-pennant, with St.
Kilda —his father played with
South Melbourne; he also
doesn’t follow in the footsteps,
inasmuch as he’s more a bowler
(of leg-spin) than a batsman.
Three of the five State wicket-
keepers have opened for their
States this season. Queensland’s
Wally Grout opened in most of
his State’s games, admittedly
without great success; Langley
partnered Favell against Queens-
land in Adelaide, and made 97 ;
and W.A.’s Bruce Buggins, in
Rutherford’s absence, opened
against Victoria in the last Shield
match of the season. Maddocks,
of course, is the best batsman
of the five ’keepers, while
Lambert, usually last-man-in for
N.S.W., has at least been, once
or twice, an efficient “night-
watchman.”
“C.A.A.”: The Pakistanis have
a record all to themselves. They
won a Test-match in their first
tour of England (last year). Aus-
tralia did not achieve this distinc-
tion until its second tour in
1882. South Africa waited 28
years and the West Indies 22
years, while New Zealand and
India have not yet broken the
Test-match ice in England.
* * *
Former amateur bantam
champ, of Australia Darcy Carr
(8.9) boxed better than Johnny
Jarret (8.7) at Leichhardt, but, in
a slashing good fight, the
Johnny’s jolts were more than
Darcy could cope with. A solid
right to the chin sank Darcy for
a compulsory “eight” in round-
two, and thereafter many more
rights rocked him, but it was a
left that ended things by flooring
him in round-eight, whereupon
Vic. Patrick declared for Johnny
on a t.k.o. The pair had pre-
viously met twice for a win each.
Many country boxers appeared
in the prelims., which were
staged to produce an amateur
good enough for the Olympic
Games. Some winners showed
promise.


“You could say . . . look, how
about coming in and having a
drink while I think this out.”
The photographer let his
camera fall to his side. He
would get a nicely-posed flash-
picture indoors. The reporter
stuck his pencil back in his
breast-pocket.
“I’ll let you in, just wait a
sec.,” said the diplomat, point-
ing to the front-door of his
home.
The reporter and photo-
grapher walked across to the
marble threshold while the
diplomat went back to the
kitchen door he had come from.
He locked it behind him.
It took the reporter and photo-
grapher about three-minutes to
realise just how good a diplomat
he was.
* * *
One night a reporter stood
watching a furniture-factory go
up in flames. It was an easy fire
to find. The sparks went
hundreds of feet into the air and
the red glare lit the neighbor-
hood.
The reporter warily trod his
way between the hoses, looking
around for someone. At last
he spotted fym, the owner of
the factory, speaking to a
couple of high-ranking firemen.
The owner, in a dress-suit,
fresh from some shindig, looked
about as miserable as anyone
could look seeing his life’s work
go up in smoke.
So the reporter, seeking some
direct quotes, introduced him-
self ; said how sorry he was to
see this happening to such a
fine factory. He spoke softly
and sympathetically, and after
a while the owner felt he had
found a friend and started
talking freely.
He told the story of all he
had put into the place, what it
was all worth. He didn’t know
what he was going to do now
that it was all gone. He
supposed he would have to start
again. Not a pleasing prospect
at his time of life.
After a while the reporter
gently suggested that they should
cross the street to a street-light
so that he could see to write
down a few details.
“Certainly,” said the owner,
and they went across.
The reporter had written most
of it down when a fireman, turn-
ing to speak to someone,
brought the hose-nozzle around
with him.
The ex-factory-owner, who
had at least been dry on the
other side of the street, caught
the jet fair in the stiff shirt.
The reporter, who was only
sprayed slightly, retains a vivid
recollection of seeing a strong
man close to tears.
At Port Moresby
Boy About the House
By KIT DENTON
WHAT do you do when
you’re served soap-
flakes-and-milk as a
breakfast cereal? How
do you react when the yellowish
patches on your white-drill
slacks prove to have been made
by rolled-oats used as soap-
powder?
When my wife and I arrived in
Port Moresby we were handed
over to a shambling youth with
a head of hair like a pot-scourer
and eyes like a retriever pup’s,
and we watched and wondered.
We’d never been confronted
with the problem of a personal
servant, and the knowledge that
we had one of our own there be-
fore us was unsettling ... in all
our memory-cells there wasn’t a
single one labelled “Houseboy,”
and the adaptability-cells were
pulsing up and down, pistonlike,
trying to establish a pattern of
sorts.
The lad’s name was Gamba-
dena. He was, I suppose, about
18, thin, stoop-shouldered and
an even coffee-bean color—
except when he smiled and a
splendid set of betel-red teeth
flashed like a series of stop-
signals.
It was obvious that he was
just as ill-at-ease as we were, and
we stood smiling fooiishly at
him and at each other, while he
stared fixedly at his right foot
describing little arcs on the dusty
floor.
This mutual wariness lasted
throughout our brief acquaint-
ance, for it was his first house-
job, and the three of us were
equally raw, so that when my
wife was hissing in frenzy,
“What do I say to him?” or
“What shall I ask him to do ?”
he was in the kitchen, listlessly
dusting an empty shelf with one
of my handkerchiefs and
revolving in his mind what to
do next.
In most cases this turned out
to be a quick sleep in the boy-
house ; and, since our quarters
were at that time almost com-
pletely empty of furniture, and
Gambadena had next-to-nothing
to do, anyway, it wasn’t such
a bad idea.
As well, he understood per-
haps 10 words of our language,
while we understood not one of
his. His departure followed
eight days after our arrival, and,
simultaneously it seemed, there
sprang into being an enormous
pile of washing—off-white shirts,
slacks, shorts, cotton frocks and
what-have-you —a pile which
appeared to grow by the hour,
and with which, in the unaccus-
tomed heat, my wife could not
cope.
We told our friends of the
position, and they in turn men-
tioned it to their boys, and so
the word got around that we
needed a servant. With the
spreading of the word began a
procession of houseboys which
lasted for an uncomfortable six
or seven weeks, for it was
obvious to all who came that
we were new arrivals and there-
fore fair game, and while not all
of them were Artful Dodgers, a
good percentage were.
Jack was the first . . . his
name wasn’t Jack, but he pre-
ferred it for some reason. Quite
tall, well built and very, very
polite, he impressed me right
from the beginning, and it was
only after a day or two that I
began to find him a bit wearing,
for he was an ardent conver-
sationalist and followed me
about giving me a variety of
accounts of his life in a weird
form of English compounded of
equal parts of pidgin and gib-
berish, and asking violently
personal questions. I welcomed
an opportunity to deliver him
from his bondage.
Simeneh was a different kettle-
of-fish. About the same age as
Jack, mid-twenties, he was
servile ... a dark-brown Uriah
Heep. In his passable English
he told me he had worked in
houses before, but that his last
two years had been spent in a
garage in Port Moresby, and he
was, he claimed, a “Numma-one
mecca nick.” This I ventured to
doubt, and, highly incensed, he
proceeded to draw, with a twig
in the dry earth, a detailed and
quite accurate scale-plan of the
differential of a well-known
make of car.
Of course I was surprised and
apologetic, and made it plain
that I was so, and such was his
joy at this show of confidence
on my part that he decided to
return the favor and unburden
his conscience a little. Simply,
and with a note of conscious
pride, he told me that he had
been to jail for three years and
would like me to know about it
so that there would be perfect
faith and trust between us. I
asked him what he’d been inside
for, and with engaging earnest-
ness he said, “Rape, Taubada.”
When he left us, 20 minutes
later, the dirty clothing loomed
large again, and we were down
to our last change before Zircon
appeared. A zircon is, I believe,
some form of gem, and in many
ways the name was fitting for
the boy —not that he was a spec-
tacular worker, a deft and able
servant or a competent cook.
Anything but. His peculiar value
lay in his looks and in his cheer-
fulness in all circumstances, and
he was such a gentle character
that it was difficult to be angry
with him and impossible to stay
angry.
He was a stocky chap, ox-
blood in color, and the simplest
way to imagine his face is to
picture a block of solid rubber
torn roughly to resemble human
features. You must then further
picture this block being sub-
jected to sufficieiit heat to allow
of its melting very slowly.
Finally, think of the softened
rubber being struck a dozen
times or so with a ball-pin
hammer, and there you have it.
-I- -I-
Zircon was a gargoyle—slow-
moving, thumb-fingered, splay-
footed and entirely genial. He
went about his chores with a
terrifying grin on his face, and
when spoken to, sharply or
otherwise, expanded the grin
into a huge and completely para-
lysing smile before answering.
The answer was invariably
monosyllabic, delivered in a
grunting, heaving bass.
There was a day when one of
our two kittens was missing and
we asked Zircon if he knew
where it was. He smiled at his
feet (and I expected them to
shrivel and fall off) and replied
in contra-bassoon register that
he hadn’t seen the puss-cat, but
that if I wanted him to he would
look for it.
I wanted, and Zircon took a
tin of condensed-milk, punched
a couple of holes in the top, and,
holding it at arm’s-length,
cruised around the garden for
more than two hours thundering
at five-second intervals, “Booss-
booss ; Booss-booss! ” We never
saw the kitten again, which was
not surprising.
One tends to lose track of the
rest as they came and went.
Zircon left us on compassionate
grounds —he wanted to go back
to his village and beat someone
up —and after him the next three
or four were nonentities,
shadowy figures who joined our
establishment, stole something
or broke something and left
under clouds of varying size and
density. Until Kabi.
When he turned-up at the
back-door, having been sent
along by a neighbor’s boy, he
was dressed in a dirty, faded-
blue rami and a three- or four-
day beard. He looked surly and
unpleasant, and I wasn’t a bit
keen to take him orf, except for
our dismal need.
By this time we’d learnt the
ropes a little, and I questioned
him fairly closely, finding his
answers direct and understand-
able, if a little snappish.
Yes, he could do the house-
work and washing and ironing.
Yes, he could see to the garden.
No, he couldn’t cook.
Well, we needed someone
badly, and I offered him the job
—salary, a weekly ration of food
and tobacco (this was statutory)
worth about 225., and 10s. in
cash each week.
After giving him the usual
mosquito-net, tin-mug, plate,
fork (knives weren’t allowed)
and blanket I left him to clean-
up the kitchen, and went off to
consider whether or not I’d done
the right thing, for I didn’t much
like his looks.
I needn’t have worried, for
Kabi Lavogoi stayed with us
for 15 months and proved him-
self surely one of the best house-
boys in the Territory.
+ +
Our previous boys had lived
in a communal boyhouse a
couple of hundred yards away,
and Kabi went there, too, later
in the day, returning shaven and
clean, although still wearing the
same dirty rami, which, I found,
was the only one he owned. He
watched with close interest as
my wife prepared dinner, and
volunteered the information that
he could make coffee if we
wished. Wise in our season, we
told him to go ahead, and after
dinner found ourselves being
served in quite an elegant fashion
on the veranda.
The washing-up was done in
no time, and the kitchen swept
and made ready for the morn-
ing. Kabi bade us a civil “Goo’-
night, Taubada; goo’night,
Sinabada,” while we sat with
fingers crossed and prayers in
our hearts.
It took three days for him to
break-down and confess that he
could cook, and hard upon this
admission came the rider that
he had a wife —legally.
Now, this was a poser, for
the principle had been till then
that native women weren’t
allowed to live in my firm’s area,
and, while we badly wanted the
boy to stay, he wouldn’t unless
Mrs. Kabi came along.
Some fast and persuasive talk-
ing solved the problem, and a
tiny boyhouse in the next-door’s
garden became the only House-
boy’s Married Quarters on the
station ; and when Valina came,
and moved in, our life became
so pleasant and so easy that we
occasionally have fits of nos-
talgia nowadays just thinking of
it usually during frenzied
mornings in the laundry.
We didn’t have to do a thing.
Kabi cooked beautifully, par-
ticularly omelettes and York-
shire-pudding (where he learned
I never discovered). The house
was always clean and tidy and
our clothes beautifully washed
and ironed. And yet, with it
all, the two of them always had
a couple of hours off every after-
noon and rarely worked after
lunch on a Saturday.
We lapsed into a stupor of
content, and within weeks were
regarded with deep envy by
others less fortunate.
The three single men sharing
a house along the road also
shared a boy, who, for three
consecutive days, cooked the
dog’s meat and presented it to
them at dinner, while the lucky
dog feasted on T-bone steaks
and a leg of lamb.
Another neighbor’s boy per-
sisted in boiling the grilling-
meat, and when the error of his
ways was pointed out to him
apologised and promised to do
better. That night he boiled
the meat first, then grilled it
and served it with a look of
bland righteousness.
+ +
These things were foreign to
us. We had Kabi.
We were all very happy;
and, while my wife and I lost
weight in the heat and humidity,
they became plump, and Kabi
gleamed and shone like well-
oiled leather. We used td have
long talks, often very funny, for
he had a lusty, down-to-earth
sense of humor, laughing wildly
if I pretended to be in a tantrum
about anything and making sly
digs at the expense of Valina in
particular and women in general.
His English was mainly
pidgin, and, in common with
most natives, he had difficulty in
pronouncing the letters “B,”
“P” and “F” in the right places,
so that when he asked me once
if his brother could stay the night
with them it went a bit like
this:
“Taubada, my frutter ’e
come. Me like ’e stop ’ere.”
“Is he your brother-true,
Kabi? Not just a village-
brother?”
“Oh, yes, Taubada, ’e frutter-
true. Same mutter, same putter.
’E my frutter.”
Words ending in “X”-sounds
were another difficulty, and the
nearest they could get to the
sound was “kiss,” so that
“box” and “six” became “akkis,”
“bokkis” and “sikkis”; and even
now, months after leaving, I still
find myself saying, “Where the
devil are my clean sokkis?”
A simple chap, Kabi, as
honest as the average man any-
where, intelligent and quick-
witted, clean and extremely
loyal. Kabi and his wife, my
wife and I, our three dogs and
our cat, as well as Kabi’s puppy,
lived together as a unit for over
a year.
We had our off - times,
naturally—one night Valina put
on a show and began wrecking
their house, and I just managed
to stop Kabi jabbing her with
a knife —but, all in all, we were
good friends all round.
The dogs loved Kabi, and he
was as stupidly fond of them as
we were ; that stands high to his
credit.
The two of them watched their
savings-account jealously; and
they were proud of their
wedding-photograph —Kabi in a
white sport-shirt, white shorts,
long black stockings and white
sandals ; Valina in a grass-skirt
and a flower-lei. Two very
human beings.
I had occasion to spend a
couple of weeks away from
Moresby, and in one letter from
my wife was an enclosure from
Kabi, neatly written in pencil on
a sheet of vivid yellow paper.
This is what my houseboy write:
Dear Taubada,
Our you. Here we all stop
good no sick. Sinabada he al
right. Puppis he al right. No
sick.
God he look after you.
Lau oi emu mero. [/ am your
boy.]
Kabi Lavagoi.


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
OSUIMVA*
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL’' ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated, by Royal Charter A D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
UNCABLED
ADDITION S
MALAYA
/COMMENTING on the Lon-
don agreements by which
Malaya will achieve its in-
dependence, London “Financial
Times” states that “Malaya now
makes the third colony which
has the right to move to full
dominion status within the next
year or so” :
“The other two are Nigeria
and the Gold Coast, both of
which are free to make the final
Constitutional change in 1956,
if they are able to settle certain
internal problems. These may
hold it up a little longer.
“The Malayan target-date is
August, 1957. Indeed, it looks
at the moment as if 1957 may
prove to be another major turn-
ing-point in the history of the
Commonwealth, like 1947—the
year of Indian independence.
“Fortunately, it also looks like
being a great deal more peaceful.
The whole process is going for-
ward in an orderly manner—
and, it seems, in a most amicable
one, too.
“This spirit of amity, which
appears to grow rather than to
diminish as the actual date of
independence approaches for
the three colonies, is not only a
political gain for Britain and
the rest of the Commonwealth.
It is also an important economic
fact for the whole of the sterling
area. For Malaya, Nigeria and
the Gold Coast together account
for the greater part of the gold-
and dollar-earnings of the
British colonies; and the
colonies are responsible for well
over half of the net gold- and
dollar-earnings of the sterling-
area.
“In 1954, which is the last
year for which full figures are
available, the colonies produced
£llO million of gold and dollars
against £55 million derived from
all other sterling-area countries.”
Also commenting on the
agreements, London “Daily
Telegraph” adds that Britain’s
aims are three:
“To gain wholehearted
Malayan co-operation in fighting
terrorism; to secure continuing
facilities for fulfilling our
strategic obligations in South-
East Asia; and to ensure that
the sterling area’s biggest dollar-
earner does not desert or let us
down. All these are as well
safeguarded as words can make
them.
“The main risk in granting
independence js that it might at
some future time hamper
Britain’s ability to meet military
obligations in South-East Asia.
Our right to do so is to be
guaranteed by a treaty with the
Federation ; but this could be
denounced by a hostile Govern-
ment, such as might conceivably
arise as the strength of the
Malayan Chinese vote increases.
“The real safeguard is not
one that can be put on paper;
it must be the ripening fruit of
mutual trust within the Com-
monwealth partnership which
the Malayan and British Gov-
ernments set as their goal.”
A difficulty in the past—and
one that could come up again
in the future—is the fact that
Malaya is what “New York
Times” calls a “plural” State:
“The ethnic Chinese and the
Malays are almost equal in num-
ber. There is, in addition, a
substantial and vocal Indian
community. Relations between
these groups have not always
been harmonious, and there was,
as a consequence, no cohesive
‘nationalist’ movement.
“Some of those differences
have now been ironed-out, and
there is a real demand for wider
self - government within the
general framework of the British
Commonwealth. This demand
has been readily recognised by
the British.
“All this, it should be remem-
bered, has been accomplished in
the face of a determined Com-
munist effort to destroy life and
disrupt order at any point on
the peninsula that happened to
be vulnerable.
“Malaya obviously doesn’t
wish to withdraw from the
British Commonwealth. There
is no reason why the Malayans
should. But these Malayans
want the dignity of self-govern-
ment and Britain is prepared to
give it to them. This is the right
approach, as distinguished from
the Communist campaign of
jungle - warfare and furtive
assassination.”*
To which “Manchester
Guardian” adds:
“Tengku Abdul Rahman
[Chief Minister of the Federa-
tion of Malaya] can thus return
to Malaya and demonstrate that
Constitutional processes are
bringing peacefully to the
country the independence for
which the Communists claimed
to be fighting.”
India and the U.S.?
The apparent ingratitude of
countries which have received
liberal U.S. aid since the war
was mentioned here last week.
One country about which,
Americans are “growing increas-
ingly puzzled” is India, where,
as “United States News and
World Report” notes, Uncle Sam
is handing out substantial aid,
and hearing, in return, sharp
criticism of his own country and
liberal praise of Russia.
In a long report based on a
two-year study, Alvin J. Cottrell
and James E. Dougherty, Re-
search Fellows of the Foreign
Policy Research Institute of the
University of Pennsylvania, set-
out the core of the problem:
“Prime Minister Jawaharlal
Nehru has put the problem this
way: ‘We talk about the crisis
of our time and many people
view it in different ways. Pro-
bably in the U.S.A., the crisis
of the time is supposed to be
Communism v. anti-Commun-
ism. It may be so to some ex-
tent. But the crisis of the time in
Asia is colonialism v. anti-colp-
nialism. Let us be quite clear
about it.’
“India,” Cottrell and
Dougherty comment, “having
won its own national independ-
ence only eight years ago, now
wishes to assign top priority on
the international political
agenda to the elimination of
every trace of white imperialism
in Asia —and Africa, too. Anti-
colonialism has become the
cornerstone of its foreign policy.
“But India apparently re-
serves its political epithets for the
policies of the Western nations
towards Asia and Africa. She
ignores all other forms of
imperialism, whether it be that
of the Soviet Union in Eastern
Europe and Outer Mongolia, or
that of the Chinese People’s Re-
public in Tibet, North Korea
and Indo-China.
“Indian policy-makers have
succeeded brilliantly in narrow-
ing the meaning of colonialism
New York “Herald Tribune”
OPPOSITION
to the category of white people
versus colored. They close their
eyes to the categories of white
versus white and colored versus
colored, and to this extent they
have contributed to an intensifi-
cation of the race-problem at
the international level.
“India is obviously convinced,
and she is trying to convince her
neighbors, that Western white-
colonialism or neocolonialism
poses a more serious threat to
the colored continents than
Communism does. She regards
every military, economic or poli-
tical link which the Western
nations attempt to forge with the
Governments of the Afro-Asian
countries as an instrument of
neocolonialism.
“By way of contrast, she
does not consistently look upon
Communism as a foreign-policy
instrument of the Soviet Union
or of Red China. Rather, when
Communism appears in the
nations of South and South-
East Asia, it is looked upon
primarily as a domestic political
opposition which feeds upon
social and economic discontents,
as well as anti-colonial feeling.
Indians frequently charge that
whenever Asian nations are
drawn into alliances like the
South-East Asia Treaty Organi-
sation (Seato), their independ-
ence is jeopardised and the
propaganda of the Communist
parties assumes added weight.
“Nehru believes that Com-
munism cannot bring about a
successful revolution in that part
of the world except under the
guise of a struggle to liberate a
nation from its colonial over-
lords, and therefore regards
Seato as an unnecessary irritant
in the Asian environment. India,
however, has not been able to
persuade all the countries of the
Middle East and the Far East
that her analysis of the situation
is the correct one.
“The three Asian nations
which have had the most inti-
mate contacts with the United
States in this century do not
concur in this analysis. The
Philippines have had direct ex-
perience of American colonial
rule. Japan has undergone six
years of American occupation.
South Korea is the only Asian
nation which has ever been an
area of extended U.S. military
operations. All of these coun-
tries, every bit as Asian as India,
are allies of the United States.
“A number of other countries
have allied themselves with the
United States and Great Britain.
Thailand, the Republic of China
on Formosa, Pakistan, Turkey,
Iran and Irak have all shown
that in their foreign policies they
place the defence of the free
world against the threat of Sino-
Soviet aggression above consid-
eration of anti-Westernism.
“India refuses to conceive the
present international political
situation in terms of the bipolar
struggle. Her leaders attempt
to employ ideology, without
backing of armed force, to thrust
India into the position of third
power-centre in a tripolar world.
They are well aware of their
country’s military, economic and
political weakness during the
period of painful transition from
a colonial territory to a national
State. Consequently, they rely
mainly upon the anti-colonialist
theme, which they have welded
to the related theme of anti-
militarism. Both of these themes
loom large in the propaganda-
campaign pf the Soviet Union.
“Since India usually applied
these twin shibboleths only
against the ‘white imperialists’
of the West, her foreign-policy
objectives coincide increasingly
with the strategic goals of the
Sino-Soviet bloc. The Indians
are willing to overlook the fact
that the Russians, who are also
white, maintain vast colonial
holdings of their own, conclude
military alliances with China and
the Warsaw Pact satellites, con-
tinue their own H-bomb experi-
ments in Central Asia and refuse
to accept President Eisenhower’s
,‘open-sky’ proposal for mutual
aerial-inspection, designed as a
good-faith measure to show that
neither side is preparing to start
a war.”
Automation
Some thoughts by a trade-
unionist on automation—from
an article in Edinburgh “Scots-
man” by J. Crawford, C.8.E.,
chairman of the British Pro-
ductivity Council and general-
president of the National Union
of Boot and Shoe Operatives:
“Industrial inventions, like the
internal-combustion engine or
the typewriter, have created more
employment—not less. The
horse, and the trades connected
with it, have largely disap-
peared ; so has hand-copying.
Yet the great expansion of busi-
ness which the new machines
made possible stimulated further
new processes. Rubber, tex-
tiles, leather, electrical, oil, print-
ing and other industries shared
in the expansion. Today, follow-
ing more than a century of
steadily advancing mechanisa-
tion, there are more people at
work in Britain than ever be-
fore ; and their real wages are
the highest yet attained.
“A key factor in the success-
ful introduction of automation
will be the standard of industrial
relations within firms, within
industries and throughout the
nation. When there is confidence
between management and men
the trade-unions will prove as
determined as any to thrust on,
even at some risk to the indi-
vidual, in reaching towards the
material rewards which automa-
tion can offer.
“The concern which trade-
unionists feel about the short-
term results of automation, as
far as they can be foreseen,
centre round redundancy, the
changing of jobs, shift-work-
ing, boredom and fatigue, but
none of these presents insuper-
able difficulties when industrial
relations are good.
“Trade-unionists will also
bear in mind another problem
which may arise when automa-
tion really begins to stride
ahead. I am reminded of a
conversation which is said to
have taken place between Walter
Reuther [president of the U.S.A.
Union of Automobile Workers]
and a leading car-manufacturer
in the U.S.A. During a walk
round a department in which a
number of new automatic de-
vices have been installed, the
industrialist remarked jokingly,
‘How are you going to collect
union-dues from them?’ Reuther
replied, ‘How are you going to
sell them cars?’ If automation
is going to work on the grand
scale foreseen by some, earnings
will have to be adequate to pro-
vide a market for its products.
“Our [Britain’s] economic
position as a nation, with our
extreme dependence on imports
of food and raw materials, com-
pels us to expose our productive
efficiency to the hazard of inter-
national competition and to
accept all new techniques
wherever they may be de-
veloped. In fact, the decision
whether to proceed with auto-
mation is not for us to make,
either on the trade-union or on
the management side. The de-
cision is imposed on us by the
need to maintain the highest
.standards of industrial efficiency
if we are to survive and prosper.
“Where automation can pro-
duce at lower costs it must come.
How it comes, in terms of its
effects on. human beings, is very
much in our power. Here we
must draw on the lessons of our


Cut out stalling and
you cut down costs
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision,
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the |
full range of Mobilco JUNIOR Tree Fellers, j
Address I
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH . . . .
Look at it... a Saw with one single
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced the
clutch engages automatically. When tho
throttle is closed the blade stops aufoj-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. It does not matter how
often you jam or stall your blade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £l6B, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/%
ALL ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX 1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE- 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
long industrial history, with its
many successes and some
failures. We believe they point
unmistakably to the urgent need
of treating the introduction of
automation as a joint operation
in which the trade-unions are
vitally concerned.” v
German Defence Costs
The agreement by which the
West German Government pays
support-costs for the occupying
Allied forces expires next May,
which is long before the
country’s own defence-forces
will be brought to anything like
their proposed strength.
The German Finance Minister
(Herr Schaffer) has said that his
country may still contribute in
materials and services to the
upkeep of the occupying forces
(a contribution worth $7OO mil-
lion by German estimates), but
will stop all cash payments.
That would mean that Britain
and the U.S. would have to find
another $224 million and $3OO
million a year respectively to
keep their troops in Germany.
From Britain’s point of view,
as London “Economist” points
out, “the immediate argument,
whether the Germans might not
pay support-costs for a little
longer until their own defence
programme gets moving, is
irrelevant to the really grave
financial problem which arises
for Britain from its Continental-
defence commitments.
“Britain has Undertaken to
keep roughly its present military
strength on the Continent for
another 42 years, so far as any-
one knows. Germany is the
sensible place to station them,
but it has a hard currency. The
local cost has been somewhat
reduced by getting National
Servicemen to do some of the
work that was done more effici-
ently by German employees, but
it can hardly be brought much
below £7O million a year, in
money which is as hard for
most purposes as the dollar.
“Does this country [Britain]
expect to bring its affairs into
such good order that it can stand
a permanent drain of this mag-
nitude on its balance of pay-
ments?”
Turning to what it calls “Herr
Schaffer’s bulging till,” the
“Economist” adds that his [i.e.,
Germany’s] affluence is due to
“several cause’s”:
“Germany’s expanding
economy and rising wages are
mainly responsible for the fact
that revenue increased in 1955
by no less than 11 per cent., or
rather more, in proportion, than
the rise in the gross national
product, in spite of the drastic
cuts in income- and profits-taxes
which became effective a year
ago. The highest income-tax
was reduced to 55 per cent., at
which rate it only applies to very
large incomes ; while the taxes
on distributed company profits
were cut to 30 per cent.
“Another reason is the long
delay in setting-up the new
armed forces. It will be another
two years before the first con-
scripts are called-up, and
American heavy equipment is in
any case available for the first
six divisions. A curious muddle
and uncertainty seem to prevail
in Herr Blank’s [Defence]
Ministry and the other depart-
ments with which he has to
co-ordinate policy, in spite of
years in which to prepare. The
Ministry of Defence has only
just made a start in calling for
tenders for supplies of a light
and semi-civilian nature ; and a
mass of legislation has still to
be passed through a Bundestag
which is determined to fight
every paragraph in order to pre-
serve Parliamentary control of
the military-machine.
“All this is reflected in Herr
Schaffer’s balance-in-hand. Hav-
ing budgeted for a current de-
fence-expenditure of DM 9
billion for the German forces,
and the rest of the so-called
stationing-costs for the British,
French and Americans, he has
not been able to spend nearly
all his money.
“He cannot accumulate sur-
pluses on defence-account every
year and spend a swollen fund
at the end of the period required
to set up the 12 German divi-
sions. If he did so the flood of
Government expenditure would
swamp the already-strained Ger-
man economy and create that
inflationary pressure which all
the German authorities are de-
termined to avoid. One way
out of the difficulty will be to
extend the term for setting-up
the Army from three to five
years.
“"the difficulty of spending the
money was aggravated by the
fact that the former Occupation
Powers did not until recently
call on Herr Schaffer for the
full amount due. His cash-
balance has hitherto contained
several-billion marks held in
reserve for Germany’s allies.
Now, however, these reserve-
funds are being rapidly drawn-
on to cover capital-expenditure
on barracks, since the present
agreed allocation of DM 200
million a month for station ing-
costs will not cover the current
claims. Can Herr Schaffer be
induced to go on making further
payments when the reserves are
gone and Germany’s obligation
to contribute to stationing-costs
has lapsed?
“The Germans have thought of
other ways of disposing of the
surplus, apart from tax-reduc-
tion. Dr. Erhard, the liberally-
minded Minister of Economics,
argues that Germany should and
could place armaments-contracts
abroad as soon and as exten-
sively as possible. The Ministry
of Defence, he believes, should
ask for international tenders and
buy in the cheapest market, tak-
ing quality into account.
“From the military side it is
objected that armaments can-
not be treated as if they were
bars of soap; and there are
inevitably voices which call for
a German Army to be equipped
with German arms. How far
this view will prevail is uncer-
tain. Certainly there will be a
strong demand for a German
aircraft-industry financed by the
taxpayers.
“But German industrialists
are not eager, on the whole, to
reconvert their plants to f arms-
product-ion. Herr Krupp has
said that it would need DM 250
million to start his arms-business
again ; he has turned-down an
alleged American proposal to
do so, and has set out on a trip
to develop his investments in
India and Pakistan. He and
other German heavy - indus-
trialists are concentrating on
exploiting their chances in the
underdeveloped countries as
representatives of a nation which
is not tarred in those parts with
the ‘imperialist’ brush.
“It might seem, therefore, that
the prospects are good for
selling arms to Germany as well
as for securing a contribution
to defence-costs. But German
industry has another project.
With an eye on expanding the
overseas markets, some indus-
trialists propose a new export-
credit fund for financing long-
term contracts. It becomes evi-
dent that the German Govern-
ment, if it agrees to help the
Allies, will do so in the teeth
of domestic opposition.”
European Union
It is less than a year since, in
the emergency of the French
rejection of the European
Defence Community, the Paris
Agreements forming the Western
European Union were accepted
by the seven contracting
countries.
Since then, the Middle East
has forced itself so prominently
into the international scene that,
as London “Daily Telegraph”
comments, “the hopes and fears
that inspired the movement for
Western integration have fallen
to the back of most minds” :
“Yet all the time important
things are going on. German
rearmament is beginning, with-
out any of the fuss that was
forecast only 18 months ago.
Several nations are on the edge
of co-operation in the develop-
ment of atomic energy. Franco-
German relations somehow sur-
vive the political confusion in
France and the growing strength
of the Federal Republic. The
coal-steel pool goes on growing,
barely noticed because barely
understood by most people.
All this needs more imaginative
interest than British policy has
lately been showing.”
Despite those developments,
interest in W.E.U. has not the
force that circumstances gave it
a year ago, and, as “Manchester
Guardian” notes (in commenting-
on a Chatham House study-
group’s report on “Britain in
Western Europe”), the Euro-
pean integration - movement
“looks like an ‘unwanted
child’ ”:
“Those European federalists
whose hopes still undimmed
look to more tightly-drawn insti-
tutions like the Coal and Steel
Community. Those who prefer
to see independent Governments
working together are content
with loose groupings like the
Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation. What
the W.E.U. has done is to
answer a specific emergency. In
1954 it salvaged from the wreck
of the six - nation European
Defence Community a means of
binding Western Europe together
in its own defence. It allowed
Germany to take her place in
that common defence under safe-
guards chief among them
Britain’s undertaking to keep
four divisions and a tactical air-
force on the Continent. So far
it has not done much more.”
London “Financial Times”
notes, however, that despite “a
widespread impression in Britain
that the European movement
remains in the doldrums,” there
has been some revival of
interest.
“What has changed the situa-
tion,” the paper says, “is the
German Government’s decision
to support plans for the creation
of a sovereign body to govern
Europe’s atomic energy. There
is a sharp division of opinion
inside Germany on this issue.
“The big industrialists are, on
the whole, strongly in favor of
going it alone, with whatever
technical assistance they can
obtain from Britain and the
U.S. But the German Chan-
cellor, Dr. Adenauer, seems to
have taken the view that in-
dustrial atomic-power is too
important a subject to be left to
industrialists. His view has so
far prevailed.
“While it is the German Gov-
ernment which has given the de-
cisive support to the scheme, it
is the Benelux countries that
have made the running. M.
Spaak, the Belgian Foreign
Minister, has been in charge of
the plan for a new atomic
authority—Euratom—which has
been gradually hatched-out in
Brussels. It is now, by all
accounts, ready to be launched
on the world—the second in
what is intended to be a whole
series of supra-national bodies
to supervise Europe’s economic
life.
“While the European Coal and
Steel Community in Luxem-
burg was the sole example of
this kind of organisation it could
be regarded by the unsympa-
thetic in Britain as a cross be-
tween a frustrated cartel and a
pipe-dream. But if the supra-
national approach is now
carried successively into other
fields, especially those like
atomic energy, where it might
well have great advantages in
mobilising a whole continent’s
technical resources, British
policies towards it may have to
be thought-out again.”
Various Voices
Sir Oliver Franks ( chairman,
Lloyds Bank ): “Quite apart
from its implications for the
balance of payments, continual
inflation is in any event a social
evil of the first magnitude. It
produces an arbitrary and hap-
hazard redistribution of purchas-
ing-power, favoring those whose
bargaining is strong.”
* * *
Vice - Admiral J. Hughes -
Hallett: “The immense power
of the hydrogen-bomb renders
it virtually certain that in any
future great war we shall see a
reversion to the barbaric method
of ‘ravaging,’ and that by this
method decisive results will be
achieved in a matter of days
rather than weeks.”
*% * *
Patrick Maitland, British Con-
servative M.P.: “Instead of
offering military alliances to our
friends we should offer the pros-
pect of being admitted to the
Commonwealth as full and free
members. Here is a front-line
plan for victory in the cold war
which can more effective
than trying to rally nineteenth-
century coalitions „ and to lure
unwilling, and often poor or
backward, States into military
alliances of which only a few
people in them sense the need.”
•* * *
Prime Minister Eden: “We
can neither hold Communism
nor beat it back by force of
arms alone. Friendship and
freedom, and help of all kinds
on which to base a rising
standard of life—these are what
we offer. It is not such military
containment as political en-
lightenment which is the need of
the day.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,*’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 2/r
vYearly Subscription • »JL 221$
rest of the State’s deyelop-
mental-schemes were being
i leg barked by the politicians.
T HAD been there for six or
-*• seven months when the
General called me in to discuss
final arrangements for the visit
of a select group of prominent
citizens and their wives planned
for the following weekend.
Their tour was to conclude
with a drive to a lookout which
had been built on a craggy
promontory commanding a
superb view downstream.
“I have some excellent news,”
announced the General. “Lady
Nora Dykes will be coming
after all.”
“Excellent!” I echoed, though
the announcement was as
welcome as a rise in income-
tax. I knew Lady Nora by
repute; on a previous visit,
shortly before my appointment,
the lady, who happened to be
the wife of the Minister for
State Development and Works,
had pestered practically every
employee she met with obvious
and pointless questions, and on
her return home had written to
the general - superintendent
expressing her profound dis-
appointment and annoyance
that many of the executive
officers and workmen had been,
as she unhappily phrased it,
“too preoccupied with their
duties to give more than the
most offhand replies to my
inquiries.”
Upon receipt of this un-
gracious communication the
General had issued orders that
requests for information from
official guests must be fully and
respectfully answered. The
complainant’s identity, although
not divulged, was of course
general knowledge, and Lady
Nora forthwith became the
mainstay of the camp-jokes. It
was the only way of getting one
back on her.
Certainly Lady Nora’s ears
would have glowed a fiery red if
she had overheard the requests
for information commonly attri-
buted to her. “Lady Nora
wants to know” became the
opening gambit in the most
ordinary conversation, and she
was endowed with an insatiable
thirst for enlightenment upon
the most abstruse and indelicate
subjects.
“Yes,” the General continued,
“I am delighted at the prospect
of showing her the view from
the lookout. It will be gratify-
ing to hear her comments ; and
that reminds me —it will be late
afternoon by the time they
reach the lookout. Several
hours will have elapsed since
luncheon, and the - temperature
will probably be low. It is
essential, absolutely essential,
that they have somewhere to
go-”
“Somewhere to go?” I
repeated uncomprehendingly.
“Of course they must have
somewhere to go,” he retorted.
“Hang it all, man, we can’t have
Lady Nora Dykes sneaking off
into the bush. It would be —
ir. hospitable.”
“Certainly not, sir,” I
murmured, stifling the dis-
i espectful thought of Lady Nora
c :-sting anxious glances on the
U-concealing mountain-growth,
cf Lady Nora wanting to know
where the nearest ...
“You will see that two suit-
able facilities are constructed
immediately in the vicinity of
the lookout,” boomed the
General. “They will be located
at an appropriate distance from
each other and from the
lookout-platform—not so near
to it that they mar the pic-
turesque nature of the scene, nor
yet so remote that they will not
be readily visible to those desir-
ing to resort to them.
“They will be built in con-
formity with the specifications I
have set out here” —he waved a
closely-typed sheet of foolscap
before my astonished eyes—
“and they will be painted so as
to blend inconspicuously, but
not too inconspicuously, with
the landscape. Understand?”
“Perfectly, sir,” I said,
though how such exacting
instructions were to be followed
was a little perplexing.
“You will see that it is done
at once in strict accordance with
my directions. Here are the
necessary orders ; see to it that
the finest-quality fittings and,
most important, only the very
best paper are provided.”
“I’ll see to everything per-
sonally, sir,” I assured him,
“you can rely on me to”
“I’ll rely on my own eyes,”
said the General. “I shall
inspect the lookout facilities two
days before the visit, and I shall
expect to find that my instruc-
tions have been followed
implicitly.”
It meant heavy inroads into
my time, but I spent the best
part of the next four days on
the job.
•[DETERMINED that there
should be no grounds for
complaint of any sort, I practi-
cally stood over Stan Walters,
the maintenance-carpenter fore-
man, until the two edifices were
erected, painted and equipped.
The General professed himself
satisfied with the result of our
labors, except on one point: the
chromium - plated paperholders
were too high, and he insisted
that they should be removed
and refitted at the exact levels
he marked on the walls.
The General and I had gone
there alone; on returning to the
camp I sent for Walters and told
him what had to be done.
“So I’ve got to go back
tomorrow just to shift those
holders a few inches?” he asked
angrily.
“General’s orders,” I said.
“Everything’s got to be just
right for Lady Nora. I’ll go up
with you and make sure”
“No need,” he said brusquely.
“Surely to goodness a man can
be trusted to do a little job like
that without someone standing
over him wanting to know what
he’s doing this for and that for,
like when Lady Nora came last
time. I was cutting down a door
and she came and watched me
for a while: .then she says,
‘What are you doing, my man?’
I says, ‘Sawing down a door,’
and she says, ‘Why are you
sawing down a door? I says,
‘What do you think?’ Just like
that.”
“And what did she say then?”
“Nothing, just looked at me.
Then she went home and wrote
a stinking letter to the General.”
“So I understand. Well, we’ve
got to butter-up the old girl.”
“I’d butter her up, all right,”
said Stan. “See her latest in the
paper? I’ve got it here; no,
must be in my bag; I was
reading it at lunch-time. ‘Talk’
gave her a smashing write-up, all
about how she wants to sit near
the Governor, or something.”
I had seen something about
it, but not in “Talk,” which was
the least reputable of the city
papers. An undignified
squabble was in progress over
the question of precedence at
a State banquet; Lady Nora,
with characteristic disregard for
the social niceties, had publicly
protested against the intended
placings, claiming that as the
spouse of a senior Minister she
was entitled to more favored
treatment than another titled
personage. Fierce political
jealousies had been touched-off,
and threatened to disrupt the
Cabinet itself; but Lady Nora
was standing obstinately by her
alleged rights.
“Never mind her ladyship,” I
said to Stan. “Fix up transport
for the morning and I’ll come
along.”
Next day, however, I was
tied up with the General and
had to leave the matter in Stan’s
hands. He reported that the
adjustments had been duly
made, and I left it at that.
r T'HE following day the
-*• official party made their
tour of inspection.
Everything went according to
plan, and by the time we
reached the lookout the General
had every Reason to appear
pleased. Several of the guests,
I was glad to see, availed them-
selves of the facilities the
General’s foresight and my
diligence had provided ; among
them was Lady Nora Dykes.
She was one of those heavily-
built, heavily-featured women
whose normal expression is
morose ; and I therefore noticed
nothing unusual in her manner
when she rejoined the party at
the lookout. We had all been
particularly attentive to her, and
on the drive back to the camp I
told Smithers, who sat beside
me, that her ladyship would find
it difficult to lay complaints
before the General in her next
epistle to him. I was astonished,
then, to see her disappear with
the General into his office, and
more astonished still when, a
few minutes later, I was
summoned.
To say that the General was
alone would be erroneous: he
was beside himself. It seemed
like several minutes before he
could bring himself to the point
of speech, and then it was to
say, with commendable self-
control :
“Lady Nora Dykes has been
grossly, incredibly insulted.
Read that, and tell me, if you
dare, how it came to be dis-
played in the ladies’ toilet at the
lookout!”
As I glanced at the news-
paper the General handed me,
I felt with sure foreboding that
my hours at the Budgeree Dam
were briefly numbered. My
departure, in fact, was all too
hurried for me to discover
whether it was through deliber-
ate malice, or sheer habitual
inadvertence, that Stan Walters
had left his reading-matter
behind on quitting the scene of
his labors.
There it was, however, the
crumpled sheet of “Talk” that
Lady Nora had carried like a
live grenade in her handbag and
produced to the shocked and
startled gaze of the General. It
was bad enough that the front-
page bore a highly scurrilous
account of the State-banquet
row, with the alleged colorful
utterances of her ladyship on
Ministerial precedence. It was
scandalous that the photograph
of Lady Nora Dykes, deftly
touched-up by the artist, gave
undue emphasis to her less pre-
possessing features,
But the headline to the article
struck me with the full force and
poignancy of an arrow in the
gizzard. In the heaviest type,
inescapable to the most casual
glance, it read:
WHERE WILL LADY
NORA SIT?
"OLYMPICS"
WHEN departing American
' * Ambassador Amos J.
Peaslee had the bright idea of
marking his farewell to Canberra
by a miniature Olympic Games
he could not have guessed at the
untimely curtailment of the pro-
gramme by possibly unprece-
dented rain, gale-force wind and
pelting hail. Hfe hopes that it
was not a foretaste of what
Melbourne will offer its visitors
next November.
Ominous thunder-clouds were
gathering in the west when the
first guests arrived about 4.30
p.m., greeted the Ambassador,
immaculate in a starched white
suit, and grouped themselves on
chairs near the tennis-court and
on the wide lawns. The scene
was gay enough, but the dean
of the Diplomatic Corps struck
a sombre note with raincoat and
plastic hat-protector. He showed
excellent foresight.
There was still some hope that
the clouds would dodge the
Embassy hill when “Captain Bill
Gage, of the Great State of
Texas, Olympic Champion
Cutter of the Red Tape,” went
to the mike, on a table covered
by silver cups and similar
trophies.
As he spoke, however, there
were occasional lightning-
flashes and some mutters of
thunder. He told his audience,
mostly diplomats, politicians,
departmental heads, and their
wives (plus a few cheerful
children), that this was the first
time the Olympics, “always held
under international auspices,”
had been held in Canberra. The
name seemed to strike a chord.
“Canberra,” he mused, ‘‘the
cemetery with lights.”
Some strangers laughed. Old
Canberra hands, who have never
cared for that joke, did not. Gage
said it was hoped the Games
would be conducted in a spirit of
good, “and clean,” fum Valuable
prizes would be awarded to those
who came first or second in the
races, and scores would be kept
by countries, with five points for
first and three for second.
“We thank the American
Embassy for their generosity in
lending their grounds for these
great Games,” he said. “The
Embassy has asked me to say
that these irresponsible, unin-
hibited and disrespectful state-
ments made by your announcer
express his own opinions, and
not necessarily those of the
American Embassy, of the great
State of Texas, or of the U.S.A.
You know, of course, that the
United States is a small strip
of land surrounding Texas on
three sides.”
He announced that it was
hoped competitors would argue
freely and loudly with the judges,
who were the dean of the
Diplomatic Corps, Mr. Lisle
Alderton, the Right Honorable
Harold Holt, the Right Honor-
able Richard Casey, the Honor-
able Howard Beale, the Honor-
able W. S. Kent Hughes, Mr.
James Fraser, and Major-
General lan Campbell, com-
mandant of Duntroon. (He pro-
nounced “lan” as “Eye-an.”
When this was mentioned later
to the commandant he said he
had often been called that when
a boy. He expected he’d be
known in future as the “Iron
man of Duntroon.”)
The starters, said Gage, were
Mr. Arthur Emmons, “Olympic
Champion Dry Fly Swatter,” and
Mr. Givon Parsons, “Olympic
Champion Sly Eye Caster.”
These preliminaries over, and
attention having been directed
at the old grandfather-clock
hanging by the tennis-court,
which was to time the events by
“Greenwitch sidereal - standard
time, electronically controlled,”
Mr. Harold Holt was invited to
cut the red tape, and officially
open the Canberra Olympiad. He
did so to a ripple of applause,
drowned-out by a menacing peal
of thunder.
About 25 contestants, all men,
lined-up for the first event, the
880 in. dash. To some spectators
at least several of the runners
seemed to beat the pistol, but
the starter appeared satisfied.
One runner, the Clerk Assistant
of the Senate, was cunningly
tripped as the field burst the
finishing tape, but he sportingly
declined to protest, although a
little concerned at the green
patch on his trousers. It was
announced that the winner was
Captain John Slim, the Gov-
ernor-General’s son, with Mr.
D. P. Oliver, of South Africa,
second. The time was given by
Gage as “between four and a
quarter-past four.”
Second event, the 220 in. back-
ward crawl, was explained as
being on hands and feet, and
backward. The dozen or so
starters did the course once, but
it was declared “no race,” as
several had merely run back-
wards, trailing their hands on the
grass.
The re-run was in progress
when the announcer suddenly
warned the engrossed crowd that
they should make for the shelter
of the Embassy building. In the
rush the names of winner and
second, if any, appeared to be
forgotten.
The sudden and violent storm
barely gave the crowd of several
hundred time to make the por-
tico, and to file through the three
doors. Last up the steps was
veteran Sir John Garran, one
of the fathers of the Australian
Constitution, who had been pro-
posing, it was claimed unoffi-
cially, to contest one of the later
events.
Inside the Embassy, the party
became one of the more usual
type. Champagne and beer
flowed with a liberality which
suggested truth in the rumor
that Mr. Peaslee had threatened
to empty the cellars before his
departure. He ,and his wife
moved among their guests, saying
farewell. Later there was some
dancing (it was to have been
on the terrace if the elements had
been kinder), and a song of good-
bye to Mr. and Mrs. Peaslee to
the tune of “Davy Crockett,
and ending with,. “Canberra
won’t be the same.”
Outside, as the weather cleared,
the grass was strewn thickly with
hail. Most of the international
flags which had decorated the
tennis-court had survived, but it
was said on good authority that
the Olympic clock would never
be the same again.
CHARLES MEEKING.


Fly your Cargo
at passenger speed . .
Let 8.0.A.C. carry your cargo at passenger speed almost
every variety of air cargo to almost any country on a world
Air Network linking all six continents by fast, frequent
services. Save time and money, save on insurance costs, save
by careful 8.0.A.C. handling and save by getting your goods
there first.
Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Limited (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BOM
TAKES GOOD (ABE OF FOUR (ARGO
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
SOM
to 51 countries
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words and author of verse
beginning:
I had a comrade, tried and true;
Shoulder to shoulder we fought life
through.
Whoever spoke light of her name to me
Had a foe to face —a sword to flee.
—6269.
To buy Morris Miller’s Australian
Literature (2 vols.); good price
offered.—627o.
Writer and husband (no children)
require small, peaceful flat in Sydney
—Cremome Point, Kirribilli, Woll-
stonecraft, Greenwich, Waverton
areas preferred.—627l.
To buy copy of prose-works of
Henry Lawson, any condition. —6272.
Copy of a group-photograph of
Archbishop Polding and 23 priests,
taken in 1858 by Freeman; nc’t the
1873 photograph. Wanted for
historical records of North Sydney
parish.—6273.
Information Sought
Was Jack Carroll a southpaw ?
In B. 22/2/’56 “not” was left out
in the reply to “G.H.” Maybe Jack
can be best described as an
unorthodox orthodox fighter. He
used the orthodox stance, but he
could vary his style at will while
boxing brilliantly. One southpaw
who fought him said afterwards that
he felt as if Jack had stung him all
over with nettles.
* * * *
Some information on the tree
known as the Bella Sombra? Where
to obtain seeds ?
The Bella Sombra ( Phytolacca
dioica ) a native of Peru and the
Argentine, is a rapid grower (up to
12ft. in two years), soft-wooded, and
has rather large, glossy-green leaves.
Cultivated in the sub-tropics as a
shade-tree, it has befen grown exten-
sively in Southern California; in
N.S.W. it has been grown on the
northern coast and in western dis-
tricts, but no special attention has
been given to the species in the State.
Reference was made to it in the
“Queensland Agricultural Journal” in
1924, when it was mentioned that
trees were growing at Purga, where
they were pruned in spring, the leaves
and stems being used as fodder for
calves. It has been reported, how-
ever, that poisonous substances are
contained in the seed, root and fresh
fruits. The Queensland Department
of Agriculture and Stock, Division
of Plant Industry, Agricultural
Branch, should be able to give further
information and may know where
seed can be obtained.
# * * *
Details of the dissolution of the
Crown union of Norway and
Sweden about 1905-06 ?
By the Act of Union of 1815,
Norway was declared to be a “free,
independent, indivisible and inalien-
able kingdom united with Sweden
under one King”; this union, main-
tained from 1815 to 1905, had the
King as sole connecting-link. The
tw.o States had separate (and very
different) systems of government,
defence, finance and law, and their
economic and political interests were
often antagonistic. There was a
difference of opinion between the
two countries on several points, a
main one being that Norway claimed
a right to its own consular service;
in 1892 and 1898 they were on the
brink of war. In 1905 the
Norwegian Ministry resigned follow-
ing the King’s veto of a measure for
a separate consular service; the
Storting (Norwegian Parliament)
then claimed that the King, Oscar 11,
had abjured his Constitutional func-
tions and ceased to be King of
Norway, and that the union with
Sweden was at an end. A referendum
in Norway confirmed this, and the
terms of separation were defined by
the treaty of Karlstad (Oct. 6,
1905). Prince Charles, second son
of the then Crown Prince Frederick
of Denmark, was chosen King of
Norway, and on June 22, 1906, was
crowned as King Haakon VII; his
consort, who became Queen, was
Princess Maud Alexandria, youngest
daughter of Edward VII of England.
• * * *
Who was responsible for the intro-
duction into Australia of paspalum-
grass (Paspalum dilatatum ) ?
This has been a controversial
subject for many years, but credit
can definitely be given to Baron
Ferdinand von Mueller, who obtained
paspalum from South America during
the ’seventies of last century (this
fact is recorded in the proceedings
of the Linnean Society of Victoria).
Von Mueller was Victorian Govern-
ment Botanist. In 1883 he forwarded
a sample to William Farrer, the cele-
brated wheat-breeder, who experi-
mented with it, but under conditions
too severe for it to reach best
development; Farrer reported it to
be a very good drought-resister.
According to several authorities,
Edwin Seccombe, farming on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.), received
a packet of grass-seed for trial from
Japan in about 1890. One seed in
this produced a plant which proved
to be Paspalum dilatatum, and from
this plant Seccombe made further
plantings. In 1890 Baron von
Mueller forwarded a small packet of
paspalum-seed to the N. S. Wales
Department of Agriculture, which
distributed it Among a number of
farmers, including Seccombe. In
1891 Seccombe reported unfavorably
on the grass', but in 1892 he was more
favorably impressed by the way Jit
kept green throughout the hot summer
and was commencing to coyer the
ground well. He began selling the
seed for £1 per pound, and credit
must be given to him for his per-
severance with the grass and for its
commercial distribution. Later,
William Seccombe did a big export-
trade with New Zealand, and now his
son, T. C. Seccombe, is also
exporting to N.Z.
* * * *
Why was the famous clipper
“Cutty Sark?’ so named —is not a
“cutty sark” a garment?
John Willis, for whom the Cutty
Sark was built in 1869, took the
name from the short chemise of
Burns’s witch Nannie in the poem
“Tam o’ Shanter.” The ship carried
a gilded shirt on her maintruck, the
story of Tam o’ Shanter was carved
on the bow and counter, and
Nannie, with flying locks and scanty
chemise, was an artistic figurehead.
In 1895 she was sold to the Portu-
guese, who renamed her the~Ferreira,
but she was still usually known by
the Portuguese equivalent of Cutty
Sark, El Pequina Camisola. (In 1922
she was bought by an English captain
and her original name restored.)
• * * *
(1) What is the name of the science
which deals with character interpreted
through handwriting? (2) One or
two books in English on the
subject ?
(1) Graphology is the science which
purports to reveal the psychological
laws revealed by the features of
handwriting. It assumes that, of all
movements of the human body, the
movement involved in handwriting
best reveals character and behavior.
Also, it claims that basic features
of a man’s handwriting remain un-
changed throughout his lifetime. In
letters formed in stiffly upright
fashion, the graphologist detects in
the writer discipline of will, exactness
or compulsion; in irregular letters,
emotional excitability, impulsiveness
or lack of planning; weak writing-
pressure may indicate tenderness, a
forgiving nature or lack of energy;
strong writing may indicate energy,
forcefulness or constraint; large
expansive movements are deemed to
show enthusiasm, display of pathos
or “illusionism”; and so on. It is
obvious that the analogy borne by the
writing to character or habits can
be given a wide application; and
there are certainly exceptions to all
the rules. Still, there seems to be a
reasonable accuracy obtained in
measuring the peculiarities of a given
example of handwriting when related
to psychology. (2) Character
Indicated by Handwriting, by R.
Baugham (1886); Experiments with
Handwriting, by R. Saudek (1929);
Analysis of Handwriting (1939) and
Self-knowledge through Handwriting,
by H. J. Jacoby (1940); and
Graphology for Everyman, by E.
Singer (1949).
* * * »
How to clean a concrete-floor
stained with sump-oil?
Sump-oil is metallically dirty, and
when it penetrates cement it is almost
impossible to remove its effects.
Following is a treatment which is said
to be effective: Sweep the floor well
with a stiff broom, scrape with a
metal scraper, and sweep again.
Then wash all over with kerosene or
petrol. Hose-off. Keep the floor
wet for 10 minutes, then sprinkle it
evenly with dry cement. When quite
dry, sweep again, when a clean
appearance should result. Repeat
cement if necessary. The hosed-off
petrol or oil may damage adjacent
plants, and should be mopped-up.
* * * *
(1) Are U.S. writers Sinclair Lewis
and Upton Sinclair related? (2) and
(3) What are some of the more
important novels of each ?
(1) No. (2) Lewis (1885-1951),
satirist and iconoclast, was the first
American to be awarded the Nobel
Prize for Literature (1931). His first
important novel was Main Street,
which appeared in 1920, followed in
1922 by Babbitt, which gave Ameri-
cans a new term. Other important
novels were Martin Arrowsmith
(1924), Elmer Gantry (1927), Dods-
wo.rth (1929), Ann Vickers (1933),
Gideon Planish (1943), Cass Timber-
lane (1945) and Kingsblood Royal
(1948). (3) Sinclair (h. 1878), a
Socialist, directed his attention to
social abuses, and most of his novels
are Leftist in sentiment. They include
Manassas (1904), The Jungle (1906),
King Coal (1917), Oil l (1927),
Boston, The Flivver King and Little
Steel. He also wrote the 10 novels,
printed between 1913 and 1950, which
form the World’s End series.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the life of
Australian soprano Marjorie
Lawrence? (2) Present address?
(1) Marjorie Lawrence first studied
singing in Melbourne, later trans-
ferring to Paris for a series of lessons
under Mme. Cecile Gilly. She
made her operatic debut at Monte
Carlo as Elizabeth in “Tannhauser,”
subsequently appearing in “Lohen-
grin” at the Paris Opera, where she
stayed for the three following seasons.
On Dec. 18, 1935, she played
Briinnhilde in Wagner’s “Die
Walkiire” at the Metropolitan Opera.
In Mexico in 1941 she contracted
infantile-paralysis, but next year,
though unable to walk, she success-
fully sang as Venus in “Tannhauser”
(Metropolitan Opera), and in 1944
made a 40,000-mile tour for troops.
She has toured Canada and the
United States, one of her appearances
being soloist at the fourth Inaugural
Dinner of then-President Roosevelt.
Her repertoire has included Salome,
Ortrud, Elizabeth, and the three
Briinnhildes. (2) The 1955 Australian
Who’s Who gives her address as
Metropolitan Opera Association, New
York City, U.S.A.
Brief Answers
M.M.: It is quite difficult, and
methods vary for different shells. It
is usually successfully done with a
sharp darning-needle, mounted
through a cork for holding. The
shell should be placed on a folded
cloth, and the needle used in a
scratching motion until it penetrates.
If the cloth is very thick and soft,
small fine shells will be pressed,
causing them to crumple. A little
oil-of-turpentine on the shell can be
tried, or holding the shell on a soft
base under water, the water acting as
pressure to keep the shell from
shattering. If still unsuccessful, write
to the Curator, Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney, stating kind
of shells R.H.: It is mainly held
in Australia. The total paid-up
capital of Australia’s seven private
trading-banks is £50,452,253. Only
two of the seven, the A.N.Z. Bank,
Ltd. (paid-up capital, £10,200,000),
and the English, Scottish and Aus-
tralian (£3,000,000), have head-
quarters outside Australia, in London.
Some of the capital of these two
banks, also, is held by Australians.
G.P.: r (l) The Canned Fruits
Export Control Act 1926-1953 was
introduced at first at the request of
canners and representative organisa-
tions of fruitgrowers to arrange the
marketing of canned fruit overseas
(mainly in Britain). The first Act
referred to canned apricots, peaches
and pears only, but subsequently
canned pineapples and fruit-salads
were brought within the scope of the
Act. Supplementary marketing
arrangements were made with the
U.K. Government during World
War 11. Canned fruits were “de-
controlled” in Britain as from Jan. 1,
1955, and Australian canned fruits
are now sold in Britain in open
competition. The British Ministry ot
Food held substantial stocks when the
market was decontrolled, but all
available Australian 1955 fruit in
Britain was sold. (2) No information.
. ...D.F.R.: (1) Reported recently
that Japan’s yearly output of motor-
vehicles is about 30,000 (cars, trucks
and buses). Most of its exports of
motor-vehicles go to Thailand,
Formosa, Burma, Okinawa and the
Philippines. (2) According to recent
quarterly statistical returns of Lloyd s
Register, Japan is now the second-
biggest shipbuilding country in the
world. At the end of 1955 Japan
was building ships amounting to
831,945 tons, an increase of 258,074
tons on the total of Sept. 30, 1955.
(Britain, at Dec. 31, 1955, with
2,226,190 tons being built, was
largest shipbuilding nation.)... .L.E.:
Maximum rate of widow’s pension
is £5 15s. a fortnight. Income up to
which pension is not affected is
£3 10s. Value of the house you own
and occupy does not affect eligibility
for pension... .J.K.M.: Bill John-
ston was omitted from the Austra-
lian side for the fifth Test against
England in 1954-55. In the other
four Tests he took 19 wickets (most
wickets in the series of any Aus-
tralian bowler) for 423, av. 22.26
C.H.R.: Now some 20 years since
Edison phonograph equipment has
been imported to Australia and
chances of obtaining parts are
remote. Suggest you try Palings,
Brisbane, who were formerly distri-
butors for Edison phonographs.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.S.: With an “almighty roar” it
tumbled into the basket... .M.D.:
Wearing “an air of utmost tran-
quillity” it is making its passage to
Gulf St. Vincent P.W.: Tell Jill
to keep on trying... .C. 8.: “Roving
Bushmen” are a glut on the market.
J.R.: The only advice that we
can offer is that you change your
boarding - house D.M.R.: “He
Stood Upright”—but not for long.
. ...R.P.: Not wearing that gardenia
in our buttonhole....P.J.W.: While
admiring the chivalrous spirit that
prompted “In Praise of Women,
1956,” we can’t admire it as poetry.
V.G.S.: The sort that pleads f<?r
rejection... .V.J.S.: If “the radio
blares all the livelong day” why not
turn the darned thing off? L. 0.:
Far be it for us to “smother for all
time the tiny coal of inspiration.”
Keep on trying... .G.A.H.: When
you “sit and relax” when “the job is
done” must you turn your hand to
verse? 8.M.: 252 George-street,
Sydney, is a draughty place these
days with all the wind-poems around
the office 1.L.: We can allow you
four lines: "
“You’ll really have to diet, Mrs. Smith,”
her doctor said ;
“Your poundage has reached figures astro-
nomic.
It’s obvious, dear lady, that you re
grossly over-fed ;
You’ll have to watch your intake gastro-
nomic.”
....J.H.W.: You can call at your
convenience and collect the rabbit
and the fox R.W.M.: Sorry, but
we can’t turn our verse-columns into a
postal-guide H.A.: It just jogs
along an uneven road G.D.: You
could send your masterpiece to the
Egg Board: —
Come scrambled, fried, soft-poached or
boiled,
Whene’er my festive board you grace—
E’en if my raiment you have soiled —-
Gastronomy’s smile wreathes o’er my face.
J.S.K.: It’s the sort of verse
anyone might write after “standing
in the sun on the corner” for so
long E.C.: No cage for that
wedgetailed-eagle... .8.H.: Look us
up when you are six or seven years
older J.K.E.: You can’t wrestle
with Eternity in our pages... .T.K.:
Missed the bus R.C.M.: Tried
reading it, as instructed, “with a fast
motion similar to a train,” hut was
worn-out before the finish....
T.G.D.: You’re the tenth poet this
week who has commanded us to
“Arise! ’* and do something strenuous.
Sorry, it’s too warm and humid
M.H.: You can’t rewrite “Clancy
of the Overflow” in our pages ....
A.K.: Very well, we shall be “jolly
good sports and forget it”
C.F.R.: When confronted with
poems beginning “O people, upon
this gfpat terrestrial ball” we always
duck for cover... .R.P.: You will
have to do better than that 8.C.:
Thanks for “Advance Ever Glorious
Aust”:
Aust shines by six bright stars;
Let no man try to break those bars. .
Woe to him whose fate may be,
Who robs Austians of their liberties.
Away in the land where our love lies,
Where Freedom’s flag so proudly flies,
I close my eyes and go to rest
Aust, Aust, we love you best.


If there is any justi-
fied criticism of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing lambs and mark-
ing calves it is that,
until speed is achieved
by practice, the fitting
of a small rubber ring
on the prongs of an
instrument tends to
be a slower process
than using a knife.
But speed can be in-
creased by 50% by
using an Elastrator
Ring Loader. This is
a container which is
designed to be
mounted on a post
and which releases the
rings singly. With a
loader in use the fit-
ting of the ring on
the instrument ben
comes automatic.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particularsat*
for free demonstration of the attacn-
ments that interest you.
N S W. : Grazcos Co-opferative Ltd.*
46 Young St.. Sydney BU 1511.
VIC.s Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S AUS.: M. S. MeLEOD Ltd.,_lJ6-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LANI): Buzacott s (Q land) Ltd-.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.J Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.*
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2490.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
POLL MERINOS
'T'HE Poll Merino is now
recognised as a breed, and
can command high prices at both
auctions and private sales.
As a breed it is not so new as
many think. There are photo-
graphs of “poley Merino rams”
taken at Moree around the turn
of the century. They were bred
(or happened) in the Kooroo-
gama stud of Mr. Read.
Their rise has been spectacular
in recent years. The Boonoke
stud, of the F.S.F. brand, was
the first to enter the field in a
large way: many of the first sales
were made to South Australian
breeders, who returned asking
for more.
Other prominent breeders now
are Gordon Kirkby, of Success,
Moree, and Messrs. Moxham
Bros., of Mullengudgery, via
Nyngan.
Success stud has sold several
Poll Merino rams at four-figure
prices, including one to Uardry.
Other studs which have founded
or strengthened their poll side
of the stud business on Success
blood are Terrick Terrick and
Lansdowne, in Queensland, and
Moonagee, Nyngan, in New
South Wales.
Many advantages are claimed
for a poll sire, some so simple
that one wonders why they were
not thought of before.
First, it is claimed they grow,
faster and larger because the
ram does not have to grow first
and then maintain throughout
its life 7-81 b. of useless horn.
Breeders who said the horn was
one of the signs of a good sire
are having to make way for the
breeder who can still choose a
true sire without these fly-
catching appendages.
Second, the percentage of
lambs is greater. It is not that,
the poll is more prepotent than
his horned brother, but he is not
half-blinded by the horns. This
applies particularly in timbered
and brush country.
Third, the poll is not such an
insurance-risk. With his horns,
removed it does not become
caught in water-troughs, small
trees, or fences and fencing-wire.
The absence of at least one fly-
strike area is an obvious
advantage.
The quality and evenness of
wool have been two points with
which breeders have had trouble,
and stud-men are tackling the
problem of building-up these
qualities to a point of stability.
But what of other uses for
the poll?
Here we have a ram with pure
Merino wool and no horns.
What effect could it have on a
Polwarth flock, or even stud?
Think of the inbreeding and
back-crossing between these two
breeds that a judicious breeder
could devise. With luck —and all
breeding needs a little luck —he
could end-up with a sheep carry-
ing pure Merino wool with the
carcass-quality of a fat-lamb sire
and as large as the American
Rambouillet.
How could the poll be used in
a flock or stud of Corrie-
dales? What would the second
generation of his progeny look
like when they had been mated
back to Corriedales? An extra-
strong-wool, plain-fronted ram
could perhaps work wonders in
a Corriedale flock whose wool
was fining-out and becoming
too light.
A. I. K.
Spoiled Hay
“Kallo”: Record summer
rains have spoiled hundreds of
tons of hay in Victoria
this season.
Don’t stack it wet.
Spontaneous - combustion
can cause fires.
Don’t feed it to stock.
Unless vaccinated against
botulism, animals can be
killed by mouldy hay.
Even when immunised,
stock do not get much food-value
from bad hay.
Weather-spoiled hay makes an
excellent mulch in orchards and
gardens. It rots-down well and,
unlike cereal hay, lies flat with-
out becoming frilled-up by the
wind.
Gippsland dairymen whose
winter reserves have been spoiled
by rain can still conserve some
fodder by making silage out of
the springlike summer-growth.
Feeding Ewes
“Nerrin”: Handfeeding in
the breeding-flock is essential for
six weeks before lambing to
prevent losses of ewes from twin-
lamb disease. Although deaths
of ewes carrying twins are the
more common, those carrying
singles can be affected.
Onset of twin-lamb is sudden,
and successful treatment is rare ;
but prevention is easy. Provide
good-quality hay or oats (plenti-
ful and relatively cheap this year)
in the vital pre-lambing period.
Supplementary feed also
keeps wool growing (prevents
tenderness in fleeces of lambing-
ewes), makes the ewe strong
enough to raise a healthy lamb,
enlarges the udder for better
milk-production and helps to
produce bigger, faster-growing
lambs. Net returns more than
pay for extra feed. Keep feeding
ewes well after lambing.
Drench ewes well before lamb-
ing, but do not give phenothia-
zine close to lambing. If pulpy-
kidney is likely, vaccinate ewes.
Do not let ewes eat stinkwort
or any other plant with hairs in
its flowers.
Early Weaning of Pigs
“Big Billy”: According to
D. M. Smith, of the Ruakura
Research Station (N.Z.), early
weaning of pigs has six major
advantages, which he lists as
follows:
It reduces milk- and meal-
requirements of the sow during
pregnancy, and allows greater
exploitation of grass as sow-
feed.
It reduces feed-costs from
birth to eight-weeks-old.
It makes earlier farrowing of
summer-litters possible, so that
all pigs can be marketed before
milk-supplies fail at the end of
the season.
It increases the return-per-
gallon of separated-milk or per
pound of butterfat produced.
It makes the production of
pork, as compared with bacon,
even more desirable.
It involves keeping more sows
if the feed-savings effected are
to be efficiently used.
Early weaning, it should be
remembered, consists of removal
of the piglets from the sow at
seven to 10 days of age and
hand-rearing them on prepared
feeds.
Smith emphasises that, what-
ever their age, it is wise to leave
the young pigs until they
average 61b. in weight. Warmth
is important, and for this reason
a heat-lamp in their quarters is
advised. A constant supply of
drinking-water is also essential.
At the outset a small trough
is necessary, filled with 65 parts
of buttermilk-powder, 10 of
wheatmeal, seven of maizemeal,
10 of meatmeal and eight of
sugar. Once the litter has begun
“Blasted road-hogs!”
to eat enthusiastically the
trough may be replaced by a
self-feeder. Then, apart from
cleaning-out the pen and re-
plenishing water, no further
special attention need be given
until the litter is 28 days old.
Then the feed-recipe should
be changed to 10 parts of butter-
milk-powder, 10 of meatmeal
and 80 of barley-meal, plus (to
each 1001 b. of mix) Boz. of salt,
2oz. ferrous-sulphate, 50,000
I.U. of vitamin-A, 9000 I.U. of
vitamin-D, 50 m.g. of vitamin-
B and lib. of Aurofac. In addi-
tion, the pigs should be given a
pint of fresh separated-milk per
pig per day in each of three
feeds.
At the end of the fifth week
the No. 2 ration should be fed
alone and the milk-ration
increased as follows: Sixth
week, two pints; seventh week,
four pints; eighth week, eight
pints; ninth week, one gallon,
plus lib. of meal.
The litter may be allowed out
on pasture for an hour two or
three times a week over this
early rearing-period. This can
be done while the pens are being
cleaned-out.
Smith says that by early wean-
ing it is possible to market a
pig on 77 per cent, of the feed
needed by one raised on the sow.
This saving in separated-milk
alone amounts to 33 per cent.
The system avoids the loss of
weight usually suffered by a sow
while suckling her litter, and
means a gain in average weight
per piglet up to eight-weeks.
If any difficulty is experienced
in getting the piglet to begin
feeding, Smith suggests placing
the meal and pellets in the
trough and barely covering them
with milk. They should then be
gradually introduced to dry-
feed. The heat-lamp should be
turned-off when introducing the
piglets to their feed, as the
warmth tends to reduce intake,
rather than stimulate it.
Brigalow
“Ninety-nine”: One of the
major agricultural projects in
Australia of recent years has
been the control of brigalow in
Queensland. Twenty - million
acres of the State’s best lands
are infested with it—but it is
gradually being mastered.
This is largely a result of
aerial spraying with 2.4.5.-T
butyhester in a solution of
diesel distillate. The man be-
hind the campaign is S. L.
Everist, Queensland Govern-
ment botanist.
One of the big problems in
brigalow-control is the growth
of suckers after the original
destruction, and one of the best
ways of controlling this has been
by severe grazing with sheep.
Sheep will eat very young briga-
low-suckers, but not after they
are about 6in. high, so enough
sheep must be kept on the area
to clean-up all the young suckers
before they become unpalatable
and to keep on eating them as
they emerge from the soil.
It follows that pasture-grasses
cannot be established on the new
area, and it must be flogged bare
for 12 months or more.
Although happy with results
achieved and confident of even
better ones, Mr. Everist still
admits there are many questions
to be answered, such as: Why is
the brigalow so hard to kill?
Why is there one result one year
and a different one at the same
time next year? Why is briga-
low easy to kill on some country
and not on other country? Why
do some kinds of brigalow die
easily, while others don’t?
Some of the results associated
with aerial spraying of brigalow
have been disappointing, but, on
the whole, it seems the quickest
and most economical method.
Converting the brigalow-belt to
full use would enable Queens-
land to expand considerably its
production of wool, fat-lambs,
baby-beef and butter.
Sack Swards
“Lardner”: Many causes
of poor pasture-growth can be
diagnosed by the wideawake
farmer.
If a pasture doesn’t respond
to super, the chances are that it
hasn’t enough potash and/or
molybdenum. Spindly, yellowish
pasture, with a fair proportion of
poor grasses and weeds, and
with rich green growth around
dung-pats and urine patches,
indicates lack of potash, a
trouble often found in day-
paddocks on dairyfarms in
Gippsland and elsewhere, and
on paddocks cut for hay 'too
often.
Poor, yellowish clovers with
pink stalks and runners and little
or no nodulation—or no clover
at all —spell molybdenum defi-
ciency. Spindly, yellowish, thin-
ning lucerne-stands generally
indicate poor drainage.
Paddocks of sorrel can
generally be improved by some
lime, sub.-clover and plenty of
superphosphate. On the other
hand, barley-grass thickening in
improved swards often suggests
ploughing and cropping for a
year or two to restore nitrogen-
balance.
Bare patches in healthy pasture
can mean cockchafer trouble;
bare patches in pasture going
out to saltbushes and associated
species are a warning of
salinity.
Use these symptoms as a guide
consult your nearest agri-
cultural adviser before taking
drastic action.
Solar-still
“Billjim”: The world’s first
solar-still for desalting water,
successfully tested at Mildura
(Vic.), is expected to lead to
the production of inexpensive
equipment for purifying bore-
water for household- and stock-
use in low-rainfall areas.
Quantity of water distilled
depends on the size of equip-
ment, but the output of any still
would be 30gals. a year for
every square-foot of the tray of
the still.
At Mildura this means a still
would purify five times the
average annual rainfall (12in.)
over any square-foot of land. At
present a still can be manufac-
tured for £75, but this price is
expected to be greatly reduced
as the design is simplified.
Eye Abscesses
“Brolga”: If a sheep is
wandering in circles on its own
at this time of the year the
chances are that it has at least
one eye covered with a reddish
glaze, perhaps with an abscess in
the eyeball. The suffering jum-
buck will probably have lost
condition and be in need of a
good drink.
Cause is “pink-eye,” due to
disease carried from sheep to
sheep by flies.
Put the animal in a shady
yard or shed, and disregard
popular advice to treat the eye
with kerosene —it is aggra-
vating and cruel. And don’t be
satisfied that “pink-eye” cures
itself. This may be true, but it
is ijpwhere near as soothing or
effective as solutions of zinc-
sulphate, boric-acid, a mild dis-
infectant such as argyrol, or, best
of all, 1 per cent, chlororhycetin-
ointment on the inner surface of
the lower eyelid.
Early cases need only one
application; more advanced
trouble requires daily treatment.
Crossbred Poultry
“Sundowner”: “Criss - cross”
breeding, a system of continuous
crossing, has given excellent
results in breeding-experiments
at the C.5.1.R.0. poultry-research
centre at Werribee (Vic.).
The system has produced birds
superior to the purebred parent-
stock from which they were
derived, and at least equal in
egg-production to single-cross
birds.
Over six years, criss-crossed
White Leghorn and Australorp
pullets outyielded an improved


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
I
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l{ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER. *
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
line of purebred White Leg-
horns, the higher-producing of
the tw» parent-breeds.
The criss - crossed birds
averaged about two-dozen eggs
more a year. Chick-mortality
was also found to be lower
among the hybrids. Another
advantage is that the entire flock
may consist of crossbred layers
with the exception of the pure-
bred sires.
In this method of breeding,
single-cross dams are mated back
to a sire of one parent-breed
in the first generation. In the
next generation the back-crossed
female progeny are mated to a
sire of the other parent-breed.
The procedure is carried forward
indefinitely, sires of the two
breeds being used alternately in
successive generations.
The Werribee experiments con-
firm the need for quality in the
purebred parent-stock. The more
highly improved the parental
stock the better will the criss-
cross progeny produce.
Antibiotics for Cattle
“C.A.A.”: Experiments with
antibiotics in the U.S. have
demonstrated conclusively that
cattle fed on the stuff have gained
weight faster on less feed.
Cattle fed less than three-
thousandth of an ounce of terra-
mycin per head each day gained
weight 14 per cent, faster than
those receiving no antibiotic, and
did it on 11.5 per cent, less feed.
In one test 10 one-week-old
Holstein calves were fed loz. of
terramycin per ton of feed, while
10 others, chosen for their simi-
larity to the first group, received
no antibiotics. At 12-weeks the
terramycin-fed calves showed a
21 per cent, greater gain than
control animals.
Sweet-potatoes
“Bill C.”: In parts of Queens-
land sweet-potatoes are a handy
farm-crop for adding to the
grain fed to pigs and poultry.
They are also relished by cattle,
but are best chopped-up to avoid
risk of choking. The vines are
also eaten by cattle and pigs,
but their value is doubtful, since
at times they contain some
prussic-acid.
Good land is needed, prefer-
ably a friable soil rich in potash:
fresh-cleared and burned-over
scrub is ideal. Buy some good,
sound tubers, bury them in a
bed to produce runners, cut the
tips off and set about a foot
apart along ridges made by
throwing two furrows together
with a swing-plough. If on a
slope, the furrows should be
opened across the slope.
Sweet-potatoes crop poorly in
soggy soils, but are not drought-
resistant. Also, very susceptible
to frost-damage, but in parts of
Queensland can be planted at
any time.
Some farmers put in fresh
shoots as they dig the crop, but
this soon wears-out the land.
The runners want throwing back
on themselves as they grow,
since joint-rooting reduces the
yield ; only the main root should
develop to a great size to feed
the runner.
The crop should be ready in
five or six months from plant-
ing, or when a sample root dries
white on being cut.
Preserving Eggs
“Big Billy”: In preserving eggs
for winter use, watch the follow-
ing points:
Use only fresh eggs not more
than 48-hours old ; see that they
are infertile, with clean shells
and free from cracks; candle
them for blood- and meat-spots,
tremulous air-cells and watery
whites; store in a cool, dark
place; put them in containers
gently to avoid any possibility of
even slight damage ; don’t over-
load the containers.
Waterglass is a sound method
of preservation; it is recom-
mended by Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture expert M. D.
Hall, who advises a mixture of
lib. of the solution to 2gals.
water, and use of metal-, wood-
or earthenware-containers.
Place eggs in container and
pour cold mixture over them,
allowing about 3in. for evapora-
tion. Cover container with a
close-fitting lid.
If prepared preservatives are
used, Hall advises packing in
cases with ventilation-holes all
round and making sure that
every part of the egg is covered
with preservative.
American Foulbrood
Disease
“Drone Bee”: It is often im-
possible for Departments of
Agriculture to check whole
apiaries for American foulbrood,
so apiarists should familiarise
themselves thoroughly with the
symptoms of the disease. Any
suspicious indications should be
reported immediately to the in-
spector, or, better, a sample of
the suspected comb sent for
microscopic examination.
The symptoms? First, irregu-
larity of the brood-patches in
the combs —a hotchpotch of
sealed and open cells, some con-
taining dead brood and some
with live larvae, either healthy
or sick.
Then, instead of the usual
light-colored, convex cappings,
you will find that they are dark
even black concave and
somewhat greasy-looking, and
some perforated with a small
pinhole. Most of the brood dies
after capping.
After death the larva tends to
slump down on the lower surface
of the cell, finishing after some
weeks as a thin, hard scale
adhering very firmly to the cell
walls. It can only be removed
with great difficulty and by
breaking the cell. This is one
distinguishing feature of A.F.B.
While this latter process is
going on, the dead larva also
undergoes changes in color and
consistency. The color changes
from the healthy glistening white
through fawn to brown, coffee,
and finally black. The con-
sistency changes from watery
through viscid to ropy, then
pasty and finally hard and dry.
The ropy stage gives a field
diagnostic test. If a small piece
of stick —a match is ideal —is in-
serted into the cell and twisted
once or twice, then slowly with-
drawn, the dead larva will string-
out to a long, even string (lin. or
more) —hence the term “ropy.”
This occurs at about the brown-
color stage.
When the bee dies in the pupal
stage—i.e., when it has more-or-
less taken the adult form—the
mouth-parts will be turned up
towards the topside of the
cell. This, again, is fairly
characteristic of A.F.B. disease.
There is a. characteristic smell
in advanced cases of the disease,
resembling that of a gluepot.
When you suspect that a
colony might be infected, get
your apiary-inspector, or send a
sample immediately. Don’t
allow other bees to rob the hive
—restrict the entrance if there
is any tendency to rob. Don’t
interfere further with the hive,
and, above all, don’t attempt to
extract or move combs about to
other hives.
Wash all implements, hive-
tool, smoker and hands with
methylated-spirit before working
other colonies.
Don’t attempt any treatment
yourself. In particular, don’t
play around with drugs. Leave
treatment until you get advice
from your inspector—he has
handled more cases than you will
ever see, and can do the job
properly.
Farm Costs
“Agricola”: Lower your pro-
duction-costs, we farmers are
told ; otherwise you’ll never find
a ready overseas market for your
goods.
It’s sound advice, but the
farmer can only control some
costs, not all of them. Outside
his control are taxes and the
price of machinery, labor and
fuel. Costs over which he has
control are generally lumped
under the heading of animals,
land and machinery.
The most efficient use of the
land gives the greatest return for
the smallest outlay, “most
efficient use” meaning modern
methods of cultivation, soil-con-
servation measures, growing
crops best suited to the soil and
using only certified seed.
Machinery - costs can be
reduced by using modern
machinery which covers the
ground rapidly and efficiently
and reduces labor to a bare
minimum. Diesel-traction is
cheaper than petrol- or kerosene-
traction.
The best use of farm-animals
can also reduce costs. Too many
of us milk poor-producing cows ;
we look on the herd as a whole,
not as individual producers, and
in many cases a few animals
carry many others.
Better farm-feeding practices,
herd-recording and culling, con-
trolled sires and seasonal calving
—all these help to raise produc-
tion and reduce costs, and most
farmers are doing something on
those lines.
But we can’t control all costs
of production. Fewer strikes and
a greater will to work by others
would help us a lot.
Irrigation-technique
“Water”: Experiments at the
Irrigation Research Station,
Theodore, Central Queensland,
may lead to a change in irriga-
tion-technique. The experiments,
made over the last two years,
have been in the charge of
A. Nagle and K. C. Baker, two
scientists attached to the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
and Stock.
The research indicates a need
to determine accurately the depth
of penetration after each irriga-
tion essential to efficient
irrigation and maximum pasture-
or crop-production. It was
found that clover-growth in
irrigated areas is particularly
responsive to depth of water-
penetration. Effective penetra-
tion to 2ft. produced a vigorous
growth of clover, but 6in.-
penetration gave only about one-
third of the response.
The scientists discovered that
improved soil-structure increases
soil - penetration. This, and
restored fertility, are advantages
to be obtained by planting
several annual fodder-crops after
grading of the soils has been
completed.
Farm Hints
“Don”: Old piping of narrow
gauge can be bent without any
special appliances. Just put in
a tree-fork and shape as you
want it.
“Shells”: Add a cup of crude
molasses per 500 birds to
layers’ mash. It improves health,
increases number of eggs, and
also seems to have some effect
on shell-texture. To test this,
withhold molasses from the mash
for a few days.
“Carby”: Large amounts of
fuel can be wasted through a
tractor-carburettor being slightly
out of adjustment. Such a
tractor may burn a half-gallon
more fuel hourly, or five gallons
more on a 10-hour day, when
operating under a load. On 50-
days-a-year usage, it may burn
250 gallons more fuel annually
than it should.
“C.A.A.”: To protect poultry
from roundworm infestation,
birds over eight weeks old and
under 12 weeks should be given
a 1 c.c. carbon-tetrachloride
capsule, over 12 weeks a 2 c.c.
capsule. Inspect birds, too, for
lice. A drop or two of nicotine-
sulphate or a louse-powder
should be applied to the feathers
around the vent and under the
wings. Repeat this operation in
about 10 days.
“Red”: Parathion (E 605),
used for spraying fruit-trees, is
a health-risk if inhaled or
absorbed through the skin.
Wash-off any splashes immedi-
ately with soap and water. If
clothing is wet with the mixture,
change, and don’t wear the togs
until they’ve been washed.
“Apro”: If buying ducks for
laying, avoid those with thick
skulls, shanks and bills, sunken
eyes woolly feathers.
The layer has tight, silky
feathers, neat shanks and bill
and a finely-drawn, swanlike
neck.
“Sarina”: If you have to wash
your dog with gammexane or
other poisonous stuff to clear-up
lice or mange, keep him muzzled
while under treatment. Gam-
mexane remains a killer for a
week or two, and dogs will lick
themselves.
“Lesbo”: To clean and polish
a rusty crosscut-saw, drill a
vertical hole in the centre of a
small stump, and saw a cut across
it, passing through the hole;
depth of cut should equal the
width of the saw, minus the
teeth. Invert the saw in the cut,
allowing the teeth to project
above the surface of the stump.
Fill the hole around the saw with
fine sand, and moisten with a
little water. By working the
saw as if sawing, it will quickly
be scoured as clean and bright
as when new.
“H.”: Very fat fowls are bad
producers and poor table-pro-
positions. They can be detected,
without handling, by their lack
of energy and slow movements.
Such a fowl can produce a bad
egg, as the muscles used in expul-
sion, hampered by fat, may cause
the egg )to be long delayed;
body-heat turns it bad.
“Ann”: Don’t be alarmed if
sheep pass red urine after drench-
ing with phenothiazine. This is
a normal process following
phenothiazine-drenching, and is
not due to blood in the urine.
“Big Billy”: Introduction of
earthworms to hill pasture in
N.Z.’s North Island has been
found to improve the color,
density and vigor of the sward.
In nine years six colonies of 25
worms spread over a quarter-acre
on land which had been limed
fairly heavily, although the phos-
phate status was low.
“Vita”: Don’t just shove your
weaner lambs into a new pasture
alone remember they have
been used to following their
mothers to feed and water. Put
them in their new paddock in
daylight, with a few dry, grown
sheep to show them round.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’* a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Goverment Securities and Inflation
The banks in Great Britain have issued
a warning to the British Government
that inflation in the post-war years has
seriously undermined confidence in Gov-
ernment securities among banks, life-
assurance offices and investors generally.
The banks point out >.uat investors lent
the Government good money, but when
the period of the loan expired the amount
was redeemed with inflated money, the
purchasing-power of which, in the case
of long-term loans, was substantially
lower than the money originally lent.
This matter is one of great concern
to investors, not only in the United King-
dom, but also in Australia; and the
warning by the British banks deserves
much greater publicity. If a man bor-
rowed a pound and was subsequently
paid ten-shillings as a full discharge of
the debt he would naturally feel aggrieved,
yet long-term investors in Australian
Government, semi-Government, and simi-
lar securities in pre-war or early post-war
years, whose loans have been repaid dur-
ing recent years, have not received, in
purchasing-power, ten-shillings in the
pound.
Ironically, the more money thrifty
people lent to the Government the more
rapidly inflation grew, and the less money
(in purchasing-power) the lender received
when his loan was redeemed. What
applied to Government loans applied
with equal force to all other loans, as
well as trading- and savings-bank de-
posits, life-assurance policies, etc. In-
flation simply robs all those who have
saved and invested their savings in this
kind of security.
Inflation has been world-wide, but has
been much greater in Australia than in
the U.K., the U.S.A., Canada and New
Zealand, and is still rising. It is time
investors restrained their lending, thus
providing a curb to inflation and assist-
ing to stabilise our currency.— lnvestor
(Q-).
Nero
I don’t agree that “Nero’s short reign
proved how swift the fall of a huge, in-
dolent empire can be” (B. 4/1/’56).
Nero was Roman Emperor a.d. 54-68.
The western part of the empire was not
extinguished till a.d. 476, and the eastern
half persisted—admittedly in an attenu-
ated form in the last century or two —
till 1453. Hardly a “swift” fall from the
time of Nero!
Admittedly conditions weren’t perfect
during Nero’s reign—but are they ever,
anywhere? The Bulletin’s “all bread
and sports, work reserved for slaves and
a vast complacency” as a description of
Nero’s Rome is true; but it all amounted
to reasonable prosperity.
The Roman economy was lopsided;
inherited, and not caused, by Nero, it
was due to the destruction, in the middle
years of the Roman republic, of the small
yeoman-farmer and independent artisan
and the division of Italy into great
estates serviced solely by slaves. (That
was why “work was reserved for
slaves”!) The result was a few very rich
men and a large class of free men, com-
pletely parasitical and dependent on the
State for subsistence, and interested only
in flie contests in the arena.
Not the best-organised community, but
—reasonably prosperous. At Nero’s
death the empire was plunged into civil
war, with four emperors in the one year
(a.d. 69) fighting to hold the purple.
This played havoc with the empire’s
economy, but prosperity soon returned
with the firm rule of Vespasian (69-79).
Then, of course, there were to be many-
more years of great prosperity left to the
empire. Perhaps, as “M.H.” says (B.
11/1 / ’56), Gibbon had no right to pro-
nounce the time of the Antonines (98-180)
as the most prosperous time ever “for
the human race.” Still, that period was
a time of great prosperity; and the
empire was also prosperous enough under
such strong emperors as Septimius
Severus, Diocletian, Constantine the
Great, and, in the eastern half, Justinian
and Heraclius—and at other times, too.
Apropos, Nero’s eventual unpopu-
larity leading to his suicide (68) was due,
not to a worsening of conditions or to his
murder of his mother, wife and other
members of his family, but to a couple
of disasters, one the huge loss inflicted
on Roman arms by Boadicea’s revolt in
Britain, the other a destructive earth-
quake in southern Italy. The superstiti-
ous populace took these disasters to mean
that the Emperor was no longer favored
of the gods, and so he had to go.— Kros
(S.A.).
Australia’s Exports
Our politicians are assuring us that
the U.S.A. and the U.K. will be told
right smartly how to assist Australia’s
trade —but is adequate publicity being
given to our products overseas? The
“Ceylon Observer’s Pictorial Annual”
carries 41 full-page advertisements —20
are British or from British agencies, 15
are local (Sinhalese) and the others are
from Pakistan, Sweden, Germany and
France. Australia’s name doesn’t appear
at all. — Hop Scrub (Q.).
Senate Elections
Too many names on the ballot-papers
is the main reason for the high percentage
of informal votes cast in Senate-elections.
A remedy would be to split each State
into Senate electoral divisions.
Each State has 10 Senators, half of
whom will be due to face the electors
again before June, 1959. If (in N. S.
Wales, for example) the Sydney metro-
politan area were allocated two seats
and the proposed new-State areas of
New England, Macquarie and Riverina
one seat each, the number of candidates
likely to appear in the metropolitan
division would be seven, and in each rural
division five —a big reduction on the 14
names on the recent Senate ballot-paper
for this State.
Under the proposed system the Labor
and Liberal parties would each win a
seat in the metropolitan area. Polling-
results over the last 15 years indicate
that a Country-party Senator would be
elected for New England, the Macquarie
area would mostly elect a Labor Senator,
while the Riverina division—if it took in
the South Coast—would be equally
divided between Labor and non-Labor.
In this area the Liberal party appears to
be a bit stronger than the Country party.
Our Constitutional Fathers instituted
the Senate as a “States’ House,” but it
has become a party-house. The reform
indicated would bring Senators closer to
the people they represent and oblige them
to pay more heed to the voice of their
electors and less to that of the party,
It would also be a big step towards the
creation of new States and the adoption
of decentralisation schemes.—K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Super Shopping
A friend of mine just back from the
U.S. was impressed by the commonsense
way people can do their shopping over
there.
Enterprising stores buy-up all available
land near their shops for customers’
parking-space. That means a minimum
of striving and struggling with parcels to
“I suppose it’s her Majesty’s prerogative.”
get to the car. Even better, some stores
provide an additional assistant to collect
all the parcels of odds-and-ends and
trolley them right to the boot of your car
—and large notices say “No tipping.”
This has apparently been going on in
the U.S. for donkey’s years. With all our
young hopeful business-executives com-
ing and going around the world why
haven’t they induced their own firms to
adopt something like this here? Or can
they still make record profits on the old
string-bag?— Allan B. (Vic.).
Darwin
Like “Murran-ji” (B. 25/1 1'56) I, too,
have lived in Darwin for a long time; I
also hope to live there for many more
years.
I’ve attended dances that were some-
thing more than mere beer-swills, and I
hope to attend many more. I don’t know
how many tennis-courts there are in
Darwin, but I know of 10, at any one
of which I can get a good game simply
by getting in touch with the secretary and
booking hours not already taken.
A new Supreme Court is being planned
to stand close to the
Legislative Council
Chambers.
Darwinites have
no old - fashioned
prejudices against
air - conditioning;
and they are plan-
ning an Olympic
swimming-pool. The
hospital is being en-
larged and modern-
ised.
We could do with
about one-quarter of
the civil-servants we
have now ; those left
would have to work
a bit harder* but they
would probably get
more done. As for
the Army, that has
little effect on town-
life —it is a small
world on its own,
With its own supply-
system.
But if both Army and Civil Service de-
parted from Darwin we’d still make a do
of things.— Darwinite (N.T.).
“Murran-ji” complains that Darwin
has no industries and, in fact, produces
nothing. Possibly the Commonwealth
Government is to be blamed for that.
When South Australia ran the N.T. we
had a number of flourishing industries,
but the Commonwealth blighted them
when it took over. We grew rice
in many areas, but when rice-growing
began at Leeton we were prohibited
from growing it for commercial use be-
cause it competed with the Leeton
growers. We grew tobacco that could
hold its own anywhere, but, because it
would compete with Queensland tobacco,
we were prohibited from growing any-
thing but “nikky-nikky,” and even that
was restricted.
We grew peanuts which ripened six
weeks before Queensland peanuts, and
which should have obtained top prices in
the southern markets. The Government
insisted on being our only agent—and
what did some Government clerk care
whether our nuts were sold at the opening
of the season or the closing?
The story could be a long one, but it
would be monotonous —example after
example of young enterprise stifled in one
way or another by Government action.
Admittedly, many of the restrictions
have since been lifted, but the harm has
been done. No one is game to take a
chance any more. — Terjritorian (N.T.).
Bushfires
Once again, with summer well under
way, Australian mail is being stamped
with a topical slogan-postmark —“Prevent
Bushfires” —but this simple inscription is
by no means as arresting as one used a
few years ago in the U.S. This postmark
showed a burned tree-stump, with the
words “Remember only you can prevent
forest fires.”
New Zealand, too, has been imagina-
tive with the postmark “Keep New
Zealand green. Prevent forest fires.”
Many posters distributed by fire-pre-
vention authorities in Australia would
lend themselves to postmarks which
would give the public an impressive re-
minder of its duty to prevent bushfires.
—K. N. (N.S.W.).
Universities and Reading
That universities ignore current Aus-
tralian writing was made plain in an
article in Adelaide “Advertiser” in which
Professor A. N. Jeffares, Dean of the
Faculty of Arts at the University of
Adelaide, said that his Department of
English Literature was concentrating on
research into what was written in Aus-
tralia long ago. Post-graduate students
and others were writing, or had written,
books on such subjects as the life and
work of Henry Kendall, a biography of
Marcus Clarke, and so forth. There was
no word about encouragement or aid for
any current writing of poems, short-
stories, plays or novels.
The university attitude generally fol-
lows this pattern. A work is rarely
noticed unless written at least 20 years
previously.
Arts graduates who become teachers
usually take the same stand, and so our
high-school students read, as part of their
lessons, Australian novels which date
back to what they regard as horse-and-
buggy days. If they discover modern
Australian fiction, they do so in their
own time and on their own initiative.
Only in English literature does a
university ignore present-day work.
Science, medicine, engineering and simi-
lar departments couldn’t afford to be 20
years behind the times.
A change for the better can come
only when our universities devote a little
time to what is being written now and
invite a few present-day writers to meet
students and explain their own work,
with some practical advice on how to
write what others like to read. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).


Pipe-tobacco
A recent broadcast eulogised the great
improvement in the growing and matur-
ing of tobacco-leaf in Queensland, claim-
ing standards similar to Virginian.
That’s good news for us pipe-smokers,
but unless the processing of the leaf is
similarly improved we’ll still get an
inferior article, because the present stalk-
coptent is much too high.
A laboratory examination showed
7.53 per cent, of stalk by weight in a
2oz. packet I bought the other day. —
J. P. T. (Vic.).
China
Returning home in 1949 after work-
ing for several years with Chinese people,
1 tried to arouse interest in China, but
met mostly with complete indifference.
An article published in the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” in November, 1950, asked for
a true estimation of the Chinese Com-
munist soldiers, at the time when they
first came into the Korean show. The
official estimate was very low —all our
troops would be home for Christmas.
Remember? Our troops are still there.
Somehow we must be compelled to
widen our northern view. Diplomati-
cally, we do not recognise the Chinese
Communists, but in a more practical
world the man who ignores typhoon-
warnings is liable to find his house
flattened. An article by “Pioneer” in
the “South China Morning Post,” July,
1949, contained this paragraph:
In 1913 a strange prophecy was the
the subject of the Peking teashop gossip,
and it ran: “In 15 years a man will arise
who will shake China. In 50 years a man
will appear who will shake the world.” The
first part of the prediction has been fulfilled,
for hardly anyone will deny that the man
who was responsible in 1928 for the unifica-
tion of the country has rocked its economic
structure to the foundations.
The first man was Chiang Kai-shek.
Within seven years we will know if the
second part of the prophecy is to be
fulfilled.—W. J. D. (Q.).
Liquor-hours
Keith Ross’s remarks (B. 11/l/’56) on
Sunday trading-hours apply to my home-
town, just over 30 miles from Sydney.
Quiet in its rural atmosphere for six
days in the week, it becomes a parking-
area for drinking motorists on the Sab-
bath. The same thing happens in the rest
of the small towns beyond the stipulated
30-mile radius which creates a “bona-
fide traveller,” according to the old
“Horse and Buggy” Act.
Many of the cars are parked in the
vicinity of our homes for hours at a
time, the drivers eventually emerging
with well over “the eight.” Too often
cars depart steering a hazardous course
for home in Sydney.
Solution: Abolish the 30-mile radius
and open the city pubs. That would
eliminate much of the drunken driving
and reduce weekend road-casualties. —
Gelt (N.S.W.).
Surgical Costs
Modern methods and resources, as
described in James Holledge’s article on
“Safer Surgery” (B. 15/2/’56), have cer-
tainly reduced the physical risk in opera-
tions to an amazingly low figure. The
patient is still at the surgeon’s mercy,
however, in that unpleasant aftermath of a
private operation —the surgeon’s fee.
Several months ago my wife underwent
surgical treatment for varicose veins.
After the account —by no means a light
one —had been paid, the surgeon advised
a return to hospital for further treatment
to remedy the partial failure of the first
operation. My wife reluctantly agreed.
Subsequently an account was received for
the same amount as was originally paid,
although the treatment amounted to no
more than the stopping of a vein which
had been overlooked previously. In-
quiries indicate that she has no redress,
as the surgeon is apparently at liberty to
charge whatever he pleases for his
services.
Another instance of the extent to which
the surgical patient is helpless against
overcharging concerns two persons who
happened to be in the same ward in the
hospital where they underwent identical
surgical treatment. Naturally enough,
they compared notes as to costs, and were
astounded to discover that one surgeon’s
fee, which had been stipulated in
advance, was exactly twice that charged
by the other.
There may be sound reasons for de-
partures from a standard scale of fees
“Just a light trim and not much of the top .”
for surgical operations, but the public
is entitled to know what constitutes a
reasonable fee for a particular type of
operation.— Doynest (Vic.).
Organists
As “Maitri” notes (B. 22/2/’56), plenty
of keen young men kick-off their musical
career playing the church-organ —but
how many remain organists? Very few ;
and, judging by public response, there’ll
be fewer. At a recent Sydney Town Hall
Sunday-afternoon concert, where a
Mozart Organ Fantasia was the last item,
at least a third of the audience disap-
peared before the organist started.
Unless a much-publicised overseas
organist is the artist, the public is largely
uninterested. One reason: no city
organist. In Sydney before the war
regular organ-recitals by the city organist
did much to publicise organs in general,
and the Town Hall one in particular.
Today this organ, Australia’s largest
instrument, is so rarely heard that it is
in danger of becoming an interesting
ornament.
“Maitri” apparently forgets that it s a
big job to train a local choir to a reason-
able musical standard. And often the
organist is in charge of an organ that
has 12 stops, among them an out-ot-
tune oboe and a sluggish bourdon, a
square pedalboard and tracker-action
hardly a suitable instrument for an attrac-
tive performance.
Is it any wonder organists are dying-
out? Unless given more public support,
decent instruments and better remunera-
tion, they’ve had it. — Adrian Wintle
(N.S.W.).
Lethal Weapons
The need for legislation restricting the
sale and use of spear-guns was tragically
demonstrated at Phillip Island (Vic.)
when a young man died after being trans-
fixed by a spear discharged when he
slipped on a rock.
The wonder is that more accidents
have not occurred with spear-fishing
equipment. Boys and youths using spear-
guns and barbed spears are a common
sight in and around the bayside beaches
of Melbourne, often too close to bathers,
young and old. There appears to be no
legal restrictions on the sale of this
equipment to children, although in
thoughtless or inexperienced hands it can
be as dangerous as a rifle.
Spear-fishing organisations have sen-
sible rules on the handling of equipment,
but such rules have no legal force and
are disregarded by many persons outside
these organisations. Only legislation can
safeguard the public as a whole.
Manufacturers might also study such
precautions as safety-catches or locking-
devices, and ways of protecting the spear-
points when not in actual use. At the
very least, ample publicity should be
given throughout the summer months to
the dangers involved in the use of spear-
fishing equipment— Doynest (Vic.).
Profit-sharing
Profit-sharing as a means of increas-
ing production and improving industrial
relations has been successful in some in-
dustries in some countries, but it should
not be regarded as a cure-all.
From the worker’s point of view, an
increase in income only comes when there
is a rise in profit above the figure at
which the scheme operates. If there is
a fall the worker’s cut is correspond-
ingly less, or even nothing. Most would
prefer a permanent wage-increase, how-
ever small. In most businesses, too, the
extra return to employees through profit-
sharing would be relatively little.
From the employers’ point of view, he
only shares his profits, not his losses.
As a general means of increasing pro-
duction and promoting peace in industry,
incentive-payments and generous super-
annuation schemes would seem to be
more satisfactory than profit-sharing.—
Economist (N.S.W.).
Teaching-condition*
At the annual conference of the Vic-
torian Teachers’ Union speakers de-
manded a code of working-conditions,
and blamed “outmoded, inadequate and
overcrowded conditions” for discourag-
ing teaching-staffs.
As examples, classes of 50, 60 or even
70 children were cited; also classes con-
ducted in cloakrooms, corridors and
shelter-sheds. Surroundings were said to
be often drab, lighting poor and ventila-
tion inadequate.
There is something in some of these
alleged grievances—particularly on light-
ing and ventilation —but the effect of
other conditions seems to be overrated.
Large classes are nothing new. Most
of my primary schooling, 30 or more
years ago, was in classes of 50 or more
pupils; in fact, the schools then in use
—many still occupied today—were de-
signed for classes of that size. From my
recollection, none of us suffered. School-
discipline was, of course, much stricter,
which may account in part for some of
the present difficulties.
As for classes in cloakrooms, corridors
and shelter-sheds, these, too, are no inno-
vation, and teaching in such conditions,
though inconvenient, is no worse than in
some of the small outback schools of
years ago. One of my most pleasant per-
sonal memories is that of teaching a
school of 20 pupils, from five- to 15-years,
in a remote Tasmanian district. We used
the tiny church-hall, almost totally lack-
ing in equipment and as drab and cheer-
less as any place could possibly be.
Yet the children seemed oblivious to the
deficiencies, and learned at least as rapidly
and thoroughly as their more fortunate
counterparts in larger schools.
With a huge building-programme to
keep pace with the growing population,
it is obviously impracticable to rebuild
existing schools, but teachers stationed in
them are really no worse-off than their
predecessors in working-conditions, and
a great deal better-off in remuneration.
As for the alleged mental effect of
drab surroundings, enthusiasm and a
little effort can brighten even the most
uninviting classroom. The appearance
and atmosphere of any classroom, like
those of a home, are an expression of the
personality of the person to whom the
classroom is entrusted. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 371
Across
I—Cesario1 —Cesario Edwards singularly
ravaged and profaned the
disorderly dovetail. (8)
s—Poor5 —Poor tough in a plane. (4, 2)
9 —plat trade-union boy—and that’s
final. (8)
10 —Observe that the same boy isnt
about a service book. (6)
12 — It isn’t when crooks know the
combination. (4)
13 — Mathematicians don’t leave out
the Queen’s men for ludo
fittings in shops. (8)
15 —The right to vote money by his
direction. (9)
17 — Shuffle a thicket which can serve
as a fence. (5)
18— Raises backs. (5)
19— pistols limbs are Lilliputian.
(5,4) u
20 — See, the terraced row is more
pimply. (8)
22 —I encore this bird. (4)
26 — The insignia of knighthood com-
mands religious fraternities. (6)
27 — It ends with the 21st birthday
party losing the election. (8)
2g—A hatchery alternative for the
counsellor of the Greeks in the
Trojan War, (6)
29—Indifferent ones don’t give one’s
doubled barracking. (3,5)
Down
1— Improperly serve swerves. (5)
2 Love writer’s starts? (5)
3 Tricks by which you can pro-
duce work by painters, work by
KipHng, and work by a chef. (9)
4 Mother of the east cheese. (4)
6 Foreigner has a right. (5)
7 Stretcher claims softness for
Diana. (9)
8— Flora appears after lip upset
columns of 3.14159 endurers. (9)
11 —Improper name for an overseer.
(7)
14 — who delves about the street
church of an abbey. (7)
15 — Golfer’s warnings used as cloth-
ing already bound. (9)
16 — Mournful negative tin article
upset snakes. (9)
17— The Spanish pound nonsense in
the midst of the witches’ brew.
(9)
21 —Crag-like trunk. (5)
23 — I go to the end of an Irish city.
(5)
24 — Clean-shaven cricket commenta-
tor has a moustache, and no con-
tradiction . (5)
25 — Figure we turned up in this scene.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 370


Moffat- Virtue Engineering
Sets New Standards For...
DEPENDABLE ECONOMICAL POWER
Moffat-Virtue’s superb range of engines are another proof that Australian
engineering skill is equal to the demands for better products at reasonable cost.
Every M.V. Engine is a fully checked and tested unit, manufactured to the most
exacting specifications, with the object of ensuring that whatever engine you choose
you will be sure of getting unsurpassed dependability and economy and a longer
efficient life from your investment.
M.V. PETROL & KERO ENGINES
M.V. FULL DIESEL ENGINES
Moffat-Virtue Engines range in size
from the 2\ h.p. Petrol Engines up to
the 16 h.p. Full Diesel.
The latest production methods are used
in the process of manufacture, cutting
costs, reducing the final price, without
in any way lowering the highest
standard of workmanship.
Output of the famous Moffat-Virtue
“V 3” 2} and 3 h.p. Engines alone runs
into thousands per year.
These engines find their way into every-
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., has led the
field in the manufacture of
engines specially designed to suit
the requirements of the Primary
Producer . . . Simplicity of de-
sign . . . low running cost . . .
maximum efficiency and depend-
ability with a minimum of main-
tenance . . . these are the factors
which add up to a worthwhile
power investment. And it is these
features that the design and pre-
cision construction of M.V.
Engines ensure. There is a
Moffat-Virtue engine available to
do a better job for every Man-
On-The-Land.
m
BS
mm
*«BL 1
V 3 HOPPER-COOLED PETROL
ENGINE
m s
m
FULL-DIESEL ENGINE
thing from concrete-mixers to Fair-
Ground Roundabouts, as well as on to
thousands of farms and pastoral proper-
ties.
Moffat-Virtue’s engineers have designed
the M.V. range of engines specifically
to fulfil the requirements of the man-
on-the-land. Totally enclosed, all their
working parts are protected from dust
and dirt. Rugged and simple in design,
they’re economical and easy to main-
tain. When this is combined with abso-
lute reliability and economy it means
more for your money . . . That’s what
you get when you buy a Moffat-Virtue
engine.
You can get expert advice on the best
way to overcome your stationary-power
problems from any of the Moffat-Virtue
State Distributors listed at the foot of
this page.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Fty.,
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
m.v. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pagre Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
February
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1956
GREATER HORSEPOWER AT LOWER COST
from the Scientist’s Test-Tube
...to help Australian Primary
Industries Gut Production Costs
FOUR LEGGED HORSEPOWER IS
DISAPPEARING FROM RURAL INDUSTRY
While man’s ancient friend, the horse, maintains his popularity in Australia
in the field of sport, he’s not what he used to be when it comes to earning
a living out on the Land. There are about 20,000 horses in the Common-
wealth registered for racing, and many thousands more are kept purely for
pleasure riding . . .
But the number of farm horses
in Australia has steadily dwindled
from about 1,750,000 in 1939 to
only about 800,000 today. In the
same period the number of trac-
tors increased threefold, to more
than 170,000 —one tractor for
every 123 acres of arable land.
There were more than two mil-
lion registered motor-vehicles
(cars, trucks and buses) in Aus-
tralia as at January this year.
Symptomatic of the huge growth
in the demand for mechanised
power is the rapid post-war
expansion of the Petroleum
Industry. Huge new Oil-Refinery
installations at Kwinana in Wes-
tern Australia, Altona and Gee-
long in Victoria and Kurnell in
New South Wales will help meet
the demand, while feverish ex-
ploration for new oilfields all over
the Continent, and in New Guinea
goes on night and day.
Consumption of Petroleum Pro-
ducts in Australia rose from
about 600 million gallons
annually in 1939 to the colossal
total of 1,700 million gallons in
1954.
Mechanised power means
Engines, and the demand for
better, more powerful and eco-
nomical engines has encouraged
Australian industry to enormous
expansion in this field too.
Out of the laboratories have come a thousand ways to utilize the crude oil drawn
from the bowels of the earth by the probing steel fingers of the oil drillers.
The modern processes which use
previously wasted by-products from
the production of petrol and aviation
fuels means greater profit per gallon
of crude oil recovered, thus, lowering
cost of production of petrol and fuel
oils, and therefore eventually, lower
prices to the consumer. The scientific
research that has produced better
fuels at lower cost by more perfect
refinement of the crude material has
also set in motion a series of revolu-
tionary advances in the manufacture
of many different products, including
detergents, synthetic yarns, chemicals
for industrial, medical and agricul-
tural purposes, plastics, paper, syn-
thetic rubber, explosives, lacquers,
dyes, solvents and abrasives.
The growth of Australia’s Refinery
capacity therefore promises to make
available to the primary producer
many new chemical aids to greater
production which will help to
strengthen the position of the wool,
farming and dairying industries on
which the future of Australia depends.
