

/
m
m
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE WITCH OF WELLAWAY —PAGE 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3967
Wednesday, February 22, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
CAERLAVEROCK'S MIGHTY
WALL RECALL THE
TURBULENT DAYS OF OLD
COME of Scotland’s finest countryside
lies in Galloway—a region of rugged
coasts, gleaming bays, notable salmon
rivers and many a mile of lonely glen and
desolated moorland. Here, also, are
picturesque towns, rich farmlands,
venerable abbeys and ancient castles
which had their origin in more turbulent
times.
A castle which has had a stormy
history is Caerlaverock, hidden away in
a leafy hollow on the eastern shore of
the River Nith estuary. These proud
rose-coloured walls and towers withstood
many battles between the Scots and the
English. They sheltered William Wallace,
who, with sixty men, withstood a two-day
siege in the year 1300. After a long
history of bloodshed and violence the
castle was besieged for the last time in
1641 by the Covenanters, who left it in
ruins, but the impregnable walls still
survive as a reminder of medieval days.
The castle is triangular in shape and
belongs to a period when it was customary
to assemble behind protecting walls the
tenants and their cattle in time of danger.
For additional protection Caerlaverock
had a moat which has since dried up
and which has provided archaeologists
with an opportunity to do some excava-
tion work beneath the castle walls.
Sir William Wallace, the great Scottish
patriot, who withstood a siege at
Caerlaverock Castle, was born in 1272
and first took up arms against England in
1297, in which year he became joint
warden of. Scotland. He organised
Scottish insurgents and drove the English
out of Perth, Stirling and Lanark. After
ravaging Northumberland, Westmorland
and Cumberland over the border he was
defeated by Edward I at Falkirk. Later
he journeyed to France, where he solicited
aid for his struggle but without success.
He returned to Scotland, and between the
years 1303 and 1305 carried on guerrilla
warfare against the forces of Edward I,
who declared him an outlaw. In 1305 he
was captured by treachery at Glasgow
and taken to London, where in the same
year he was tried and executed.
No. 286: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKHCNTKR, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
THOMAS MANN'S FAREWELL
Attributing a woeful redundancy to
Professor Erich Heller when he
reviewed the book over the 8.8. C., the
blurb of Thomas Mann’s Confessions
of Felix Krull (Seeker and Warburg)
says that he described it as “the gift
which German literature has almost
practically withheld from it, the great
comic novel.” The back of the jacket
clears the professor by quoting his exact
words; he did not say “almost prac-
tically” but “almost proverbially.”
While this is much happier, one still
cannot quite agree with Professor
Heller. “The Confessions of Felix
Krull” may be comedy by broad defini-
tion, but it is not comic in the way that,
for example, “Clochemerle” and “The
Good Soldier Schweik” are. It is not,
in fact, as funny in that sense as was
Thomas Mann’s earlier Indian fable of
the flesh and the spirit, “The Trans-
posed Heads.”
But it is for all that a thoroughly
delightful novel, gay and amusing and
light; a remarkable change, in its
affirmation of life and love, from the
heavy gloom of “Dr. Faustus,” the
bizarre squalor of “The Holy Sinner”
and the sickness of “The Black Swan,”
its three immediate predecessors in
Mann’s impressive catalogue. As a
feat by a writer in his 80th year, as
Mann was when he wrote it, it is
altogether astonishing.
Part of its charm, oddly, seems to
come from the recently-published
journals of Boswell. For surely when
Mann’s rogue of a hero, the waiter
Felix Krull, masquerading as a
marquis, is arranging to meet the
king of Portugal, we have almost a
direct transcription from Boswell’s
yearnings at the courts of German
princelings:—
You will understand, dear parents,
that with my convinced and happy
royalist inclinations and my enthusi-
astic desire (of which perhaps you
have not been fully aware) to bow
before legitimate royalty, this pro-
posal by the ambassador held a
strong attraction for me... .In this
way, as you see, the period of my
stay in this city has been prolonged
almost beyond my own wishes. No
matter! My lodgings here can with-
out exaggeration be called tolerable,
and I shall not lack edifying, dis-
course until the moment I go aboard.
So may I count on your acquiescence
as assured?
Felix, moreover, with typically Bos-
wellian duplicity, is really prolonging
his stay in Lisbon not merely to bow
before legitimate royalty but to make
love to the enchanting Zouzou,
daughter of the professor of zoology—
in the course of which enterprise, inci-
dentally, just as the scornful maiden is
about to yield to him, he is surprised
(and, more surprisingly, ravished) by
her mother.
But the real attraction of the book
lies not so much in these reminiscences
of Boswell as in its strongly autobio-
graphical flavor and in the extremely
amusing adventures which, with
perhaps more debt to Casanova
than to Boswell, Mann invents for his
fortunate Felix. Whether it is in the
portraits of Felix’s scapegrace father
(a bankrupt champagne-merchant of
the Rhineland), or the majestic chief-
of-staif of the Hotel St. James and
Albany in the Rue Saint-Honore, the
descriptions of the Rhineland garden
with its earthenware gnomes and
mushrooms or the glittering shop-
windows of Frankfurt, it is obvious that
Mann, if not directly autobiographical
in most of the central story—as he
could hardly be when Felix’s adven-
tures are so scandalous—is everywhere
drawing deeply on cherished and inti-
mate memories of his youth. Every-
thing in the great world he is discover-
ing fascinates the young Felix, and
Mann conveys his fascination in prose
as exhilarating as his father’s
champagne:—
But what sort of splendor was it a
few steps farther on that held me
rooted to the spot in amazement?
It was the window display of a big
jeweller and goldsmith—and here
nothing but a fragile pane of glass
divided the covetousness of a freez-
ing boy from all the treasures of
fairyland. Here, more than any-
where else, my first dazzled enchant-
ment was combined with the eagerest
desire to learn. Pearl necklaces,
palely shimmering on lace runners,
arranged one above another, big as
cherries in the middle... . diamond
jewellery bedded on satin, sharply
glittering with all the colors of the
rainbow and worthy to adorn the
neck, the bosom, the head of queens ;
smooth gold cigarette-cases and cane-
heads ; blood-red rubies; grass-
green, glossy emeralds ; transparent
blue sapphires that held a star-shaped
light.. . .Shall I speak, too, of the
flower-shops out of whose doors,
when they opened, gushed the moist,
warm perfumes of paradise?
What is most admirable about this
semi-personal reminiscence is that none
of it is merely idle, description for
description’s sake, digression: every-
thing has its significance in the develop-
ment of Felix’s complex character and
his subsequent adventures. Having
fallen in love with jewels in Frankfurt,
the first thing he does when he gets to
Paris to take his job as a waiter is to
steal the jewel-case of the wife of a
wealthy manufacturer of lavatory-
fittings: whereupon, because she is a
romantic novelist who wants to be
“degraded” by reality, the lady,
discovering the theft, falls more
passionately in love with him than
ever.
So far as the novel takes us, that is
Felix’s only theft. His adventures are
chiefly amorous and careerist: polished,
agreeable, handsome, avid for success
and wholly in love with life, he makes
his way upward in the hotel-world, and
is continually involved in the oddest
situations with the hotel guests. But
at the end, masquerading as the
Marquis de Venosta and setting off to
tour the world (so that the real marquis
might continue to enjoy his love-affair
in Paris while his parents believe they
have safely banished him to Portugal)
he has embarked on a deception that,
so hints in the text indicate, was
intended to land him in prison.
At the time of his death Thomas
Mann was engaged on another novel,
say the publishers; but whether or not
it was the sequel to the present volume,
which he obviously intended to write,
is not made As it stands, the
abrupt ending in Portugal is tantalis-
ing and disappointing, but at any rate
what we have is immensely readable.
It is a true modern picaresque in which,
taking an attractive scoundrel for his
hero, and with the leisure to reflect on
mankind in all its aspects, Mann set
out as a connoisseur of civilisation to
paint the Europe he had loved: a very
fine note on which to take his farewell
of it.
PROTEST
Prefer then truth to legend;
but most respect that part
nearest, because imagined,
the greater truth of the heart.
What will it count to your glory
any more than towards content
to foul with facts of a story
all it means and has meant?
If Drake boarding some galleon
was out mainly for loot
like our tin-shirted Australian,
lawless from hat to boot,
would you now strangle distance
luring across wet salt,
as the rope cured resistance
clenched to the last yet at fault?
This is no lie: reveille
in the blood blaring again,
though toughs like Grenville and
Raleigh
were cruel, barbarous men.
n.s.w.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
Two Plays by Poets
There is eternal significance in men,
but none in the mere chronology of the
kings of England; and, since the play
is weak in characterisation, it is diffi-
cult to see what point there is for
modem times in Henry Treece’s
Carnival King (Faber), on the well-
worn subject of Edward 11, unless it is
in the picture of the young king and
his favorite Gaveston as a pair of
pansies, skipping about and handing
each other sprigs of mignonette.
Mr. Treece does provide one scene
of tense drama and lasting human
interest, when young Mortimer, making
love to Queen Isabella, is caught by
the king and has to hide behind the
arras while Edward, like a mouse play-
ing with a cat, toys with the notion of
killing him. But nothing comes of this
scene; it has very little importance in
the development of the drama; and,
besides, the echoes from the death of
Polonius are altogether too obtrusive.
Curiously, for he has some reputa-
tion as a poet, Mr. Treece’s play is in
prose; and one feels that he may have
chosen this medium, rather than verse,
to escape from the shadows of Marlowe
and Shakspeare. Similarly his many
anachronisms, when his chorus of
soldiers talk like the soldiers of World
War 11, must be meant to make the
play contemporary. But all one feels
when the First Soldier talks about
“food-parcels” or the Second about “a
packet of fags”—“Don’t say it, you’ll
spoil the hysterical atmosphere,” says
the First on that occasion—is that here,
no less than in his reflections about
the sad fate of kings, Mr. Treece has
completely failed to escape from the
giant Elizabethans. The anachronisms
which probably occurred naturally and
unthinkingly in Shakspeare here
become a selfconscious and deliberate
artifice: they are no less an echo from
the master.
In The Death of Satan (Faber)
Ronald Duncan demonstrates that,
however unsuccessfully Mr. Treece has
handled them, historical characters can
still make a most lively play with
immediate significance for our own
times.
True, he has people so near to us
in time as Byron, Oscar Wilde and
George Bernard Shaw sitting in hell
and exchanging witticisms —not as
brilliant in Wilde as they should be;
though the dialogue as a whole is
highly amusing—but his principal
characters are the evergreen Satan and
Don Juan.
His theme, coming straight into con-
temporary life along the path laid down
by T. S. Eliot, is that a Godless world
is a tedious and terrifying world; or,
as Mr. Duncan puts it on one of the
occasions when his generally prosaic
but useful verse rises to poetry: —
Don Juan. And loneliness. They’ve
wired up the world ;
Everybody is in touch with any-
body and
Nobody has anything to say.
They can go anywhere
But everywhere is so alike, they
have nowhere to go.
They’ve freed themselves of the
belief in God or you
And are all imprisoned in them-
selves.
The strata of geological time
weighs
On each man’s shoulder. Ex-
panding space
Echoes his despair. It is a
world crowded
With loneliness. The wind
blows through the wires.
Hell, in Mr. Duncan’s thesis, is a
comfortable underground clubroom;
centrally-heated, of course. Satan is a
weary parson, very much troubled
because nobody objects to his com-
pany. Only Don Juan, who suffers
from remorse, is unhappy; and he
secures Satan’s permission to return to
earth for a year. This brings him back
to modern Spain, from which he very
quickly retreats to hell again because
the English and American women to
whom he makes love submit to him
with no sense of sin, with very little
emotion, and with the entire goodwill
of their husbands. What he has really
loved in women was, after all, Mr.
Duncan explains, not their bodies but
their souls, and modern women have
no souls. When Juan comes back to hell
Satan dies—largely because there has
just arrived a bishop who does not
believe in him. It is a sermon; but an
amusing one.
Possibly, the stage being a peculiar
place, “Carnival King” would play
better than “The Death of Satan.”
There is at least plenty of action in
Mr. Treece’s chronicle; and, diverting
though the situations are, nothing very
much really happens in “The Death
of Satan”—it is essentially a play of
ideas. Still, in an intimate theatre,
Mr. Duncan’s is the play one would
like to see.
Victorian Pioneers
Like the Ark, the story of Ararat,
by Lorna L. Banfield (Cheshire), is
yet another history of a Victorian
town.
Miss Banfield, a granddaughter of
the founder of the Ararat “Adver-
tiser,” has an excellent hero to base her
township on: Horatio Wills, of
Lexington, son of a Sydney merchant,
who ran away to sea, was wrecked on
a coral island, saved by a young native
girl from being clubbed to death with
his two shipmates, and rescued two
years later, still an adolescent, from his
life of savagery. For seven years he
pioneered squatting on the Murrum-
bidgee, and in 1840, droving 5000 sheep
and 500 cattle, he travelled many
months with his wife, son, shepherds
and families in caravan from Gundagai
to Mount William and the newly-
opened Port Phillip grazing-lands. It
was he who, at one of his last camps
on the route, pointed to “the tall,
shapely hill now fading from violet
to blue in the after-glow of the sun-
set,” and said, “We will call it Mount
Ararat, for, like the Ark, we rested
there.”
But rest was evidently not in his
nature. He sold his station in 1852
when his shepherds left for the
diggings, settled near Geelong, became
a member of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly, heard of new squatting-
country in Queensland, travelled from
Sydney overland for 10 months with
servants and families to where, 200
miles inland from Rockhampton, he
and 18 other men, women and children
were killed in 1861 in “the bloodiest
episode in the history of Australian
land-settlement” by the fierce central-
Queensland blacks.
Not that life around Mount Ararat
was all uninterrupted pastoral serenity,
as may be seen from the ride of young
Jack Stewart, after three bushrangers
had held-up the Campbells’ station,
Buangor. He followed and passed
the bushrangers, warned Ercildoune
station and took part in the battle
there, his mare falling with four bullets
in her head. Two bushrangers were
caught and one galloped off with his
right arm shattered.
Then there was one of Australia’s
most curious romances, when the two
Gray sisters quarrelled with their
station-owning brother and squatted
at Mr. Adolphus Scales’s Woodhouse
station for so long that he called a
meeting of neighboring squatters; they
squatted round a keg of rum, finally
deciding that “the Maister John Ware
should marry the one and the Maister
John Ritchie the ither”—to which one
of the sisters assented but the other
did not.
Mention in an early court-case of
“the grog-dray,” after one of whose
visits Challicum, of Gorrinn, “was
amazed to find all the station-hands
drunk, blacks included, and most of
them fighting,” ushers in some notable
drinking-stories; that of Mrs. Walker,
who kept the Bush Inn, for instance:
Mrs. Walker wore a bottle with
a funnel in it under her apron, and
when her customers became too
pressing in their invitations to join
in their libations, she slyly poured
the contents of her glass into her
bottle.
And the Wares of Yalla-y-Poora
found their shepherds and shearers
spending too much time at the Widow
Ryan’s shanty:—
Mrs. Ryan turned a deaf ear to
repeated requests to move on. Mr.
(i Continued on page 35)


Cyclops stroller, with detachable
hood, blue flecked canvas cover.
Easily collapsed. Value, £3/10/'.
s£§
L
Laminex-top table, with lac. metal
legs. 24 xlB x 23" high, £6/17/6.
Match, padded chairs, red shade.
Lo'Lite commode chair has tubular
frame, padded seat and back, Lam'
inex or Formica tray. £6/5/9 each.
Hi'Lite high chair has foam rubber
seat and back, washable plastic
cover. Chrome frame. <£B/17/3 ea.
<
4 FEATURE ROBE-ETTE
is a yiory chest 9 tayette 9 child's robe 9 y cat's robe
m
1 —
vi^yi:
ISS&*
g**
■
You’ll find innumerable uses for this Robe-ette . . . our sketches
show just four. In white painted or lacquered wood, it has
six drawers and half hanging space on one side, and the other
is fitted with shelves that can be taken out to provide all
hanging space. Size 4ft. high, 3 ft. wide and ins. deep.
In white priced at £l6/14/9; lacquered price, £2/10/6 extra.
Glory Chest
Holds your precious
china, linen, etc.
Layette
Holds all baby’s
clothes, bedding, etc
Child 9 s Rohe
Plenty of space for
clothes; toys, too.
Gent’s Robe
Shoes, suits, shirts
all fit in easily.
Safety Vet £US29
4ft. 3in. x 2ft. 3in. gause wire covered. Lift'
up top, \ drop side, castors. Lac. cream.
Fibre mattress, £3/3/9; I’spring, £7/4/3.
SgP 5 *
Completely safe,
mosquito protected.
Half drop side.
•'•v
V-'
m
SSK
Monarch tallboy, 3ft. 6in. high, 47in. wide,
deep. In white, £l4/19/3; lac., £2/10/6 extra.
Crown combination ’robe, 5' 4" high, 3' 3"
wide. White, £l3/15/9; lac., £2/10/6 extra.
Buy on Anthony Horderns’ Easy Terms
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns’
NOT LAY-BY? 4/- IN £ DEPOSIT. NURSERY
FOURTH FLOOR. TELEPHONE: 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.O.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3967
Wednesday, February 22, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A VERY NEW PARLIAMENT
THE new Federal Parliament is a different Parlia-
ment from that which was dissolved in November,
both in character and arrangement. Anti-Com-
munist “Labor” has disappeared, and where Joshua
and Keon sat now sit Earle Page and D. H.
Drummond.
The Liberal benches sport many new faces,
some of them strikingly young; “Labor” has some,
though not in the same force, and in process of
acquiring them it has shrivelled.
From the beginning it was obvious that there
would be a new spirit in Parliament. It is the first
time that there has been an Opposition which could
be termed wholly Leftist to the extent that it could
work with the Communist party without a qualm.
Mr. Calwell traded the deputy-leadership
from the leader whom he abuses to anybody,
“Labor” or Liberal/who, will listen to him. Mr.
Ward apparently was won with fair promises
and then found himself sold down the drain.
Moderates like Eli Harrison, respected by every-
body on both sides of the House, were ditched to
make place for Left-wingers like Clyde Cameron,
whose appearance on the front-bench and in the
“Labor” Shadow Cabinet is an astonishing
phenomenon even in a “Labor” party which con-
tains Evatts—both of them, still—and Cahills and
Sheahans.
It was made obvious from the first word that
“Labor” intends to be a raucous, militant body
out at any cost to flout the country’s mandate and
to destroy the Government by any and every means
at its disposal, without regard for Parliamentary
traditions or conventions or any other factor save
political expediency. It is also obvious, having
regard to the reorientation of the Communist-party
line, this week clarified at the 20th Party Congress
in Moscow, that the present Opposition at Canberra
will suit Moscow down to the ground for the
implementation of its plans of “Socialism through
Parliamentary action.”
“Labor” and Communism have almost identi-
cal policies on trade and commerce and Australian
defence. Executive members of the caucus have
shown themselves prepared to stand on platforms
with members of the Central Committee of the
Communist party to promote its subversive objec-
tives. The Communist party could not want any-
thing better. “Labor” has confirmed in office a
leader who prefers the word of Molotov on an
issue of Soviet Union spying in Australia to the
finding of three Australian judges, and whose
department, while he was a Minister, was honey-
combed with witting and unwitting Soviet helpers.
The party has ditched the “Labor” platform and
informally adopted the Communist one. Its
dominating group of members have an immediate
objective to “out the Menzies Government” by
whatever means are at hand.
The Government has a difficult session in front
of it, and how it is weathered will depend on the
vigor and virility and initiative it shows in tackling
immediate and urgent problems. There is no sign
of this vigor at the moment. With the Prime
Minister away ill on the first day of the new
Parliament, the Government’s weaknesses were
exposed. It seemed like a tableaux of the Babes
in the Woods rather than a Government in dealing
with the measure to increase the number of
Ministers, and Dr. Evatt enjoyed the spectacle of
seeing three disgruntled rejects from the pool of
Ministerial “possibles” doing his work for him in
rebuffing the Government at the very outset of the
session.
The Governor-General’s speech referred to the
success of Mr. Healy’s effort in defeating the Gov-
ernment’s plans for balancing the overseas-trade
accounts by the end of the financial year, but it
embodied no plans for dealing with Mr. Healy and
his fellow-members of the Communist-party Central
Committee, who, from the events of the last month,
have evidently embarked on a specific scheme to
disrupt the economy. The Government certainly
should have come to Parliament with some definite
assurance that it would deal vigorously with sub-
versive elements in industry, and if there is con-
fusion in the arbitration-system it is due to the
fact that the present and past Governments have
let the situation drift until they cannot avoid action.
The same comment applies to the Senate. The
reform of that body should have been a primary
objective with Parliament from 1949 onwards. It
had then become apparent that the alteration in the
method of voting introduced by the Chifley Govern-
ment was for one purpose only—the embarrassment
of the Liberal Administration, which “Labor”-
organisers were certain would come into power.
Only now, nearly seven years later, when a dead-
lock which may force another general election is
imminent, does the Government propose to appoint
an all-party committee to review the relationships’
between the two Houses. This will not mend the
matter. And in any case it will be policy with the
“Labor” members of the committee to see that no
change is made which is calculated to allow the
present Government to complete its term or provide
a scheme to be sent to referendum with their
blessing.
If there is to be a committee, it should include
State representatives and some outside Constitu-
tional authorities. It might well be presided over
by some such authority as Sir John Latham and
be asked to devise a specific plan which, if Parlia-
ment approved, could be submitted at once to the
people by referendum. It is not a matter which
should be dealt with precipitately, but because of
past neglect in giving it consideration, it will have
to be handled urgently unless political chaos is to
ensue eventually.
For the rest, the Governor-General’s speech
contained no concrete proposals bearing on the
main issues of the moment, which are inflation, the
need for a more productive working-week and
co-ordination of plans to expand exports, which
involve the getting of Australian production-costs
of export commodities on a basis competitive with
those of other countries; all this while satisfying
the insatiable demands of Leftist unions for steadily-
rising wages and a steadily-shrinking working-year,
-week and -day irrespective of the long-term
economic effects on their own members and others.
It would perhaps be unfair to expect the Gov-
ernment to come to this preliminary session, so
soon after departments have been reorganised,
with any definitive scheme to deal with these vital
matters; but the stage should surely have been
reached where the general lines of proposed action
could have been etched more clearly into the speech.
Perhaps the Prime Minister will state them before
the session ends in the third week of next month.
On the basis of its present method of proceed-
ing the Government is leaving the gate open, as it
did in 1941, for “Labor” to steal the initiative by
use of continual pressure and filibustering enterprise
in the Lower House and develop a position of
virtual deadlock in the Upper one.
The Government has a special duty to give
itself a shot of ginger in view of the nature of the
Opposition and the disastrous results which would
ensue if it secured ascendancy in Parliament under
such a leader as Dr. Evatt.
Cahill and Country Works
WHEN the Cahill Government went to the polls in
1953 “The Bulletin” listed a few of its unfinished
works the Keepit Dam, Glenbawn Dam,
Burrendong, Menindie Lakes scheme, three other
large dams, hospital extensions, Branxton-
Muswellbrook railway-duplication, Lake Macquarie
railway, Eastern Suburbs railway, western-line
electrification. Since then the Cahills have received
£167 million loan-money and £176 million in tax-
reimbursements, yet the “unfinished” list is virtually
unchanged. In his policy-speech on February 13
Cahill again promised to finish Keepit and Glen-
bawn “within three years,” then to press on with
Burrendong and the rest.
Most of the works go back far beyond 1953.,
their foundation-stones bearing dated witness to
election-promises made by Cahill and his prede-
cessor McGirr. True, the City railway now loops
the loop at Circular Quay as a result of a deter-
mined effort to have something to show the electors
before polling-day. The Quay station is in service,
though unfinished, but the Eastern Suburbs railway
has got no further than a huge hole in Chalmers-
street and mysterious goings-on beneath Martin-
place. Threats by Opposition-leader Morton to
turn the job over to private enterprise if he gets
the chance have led Cahill to say that his Govern-
ment will finish the project as it finished the Quay
railway. If he means at the same rate, then the
line should be ready for service by 1994.
And, of course, the western line has been elec-
trified as far as Penrith —in a sort of way. The
overhead wires are there and even beyond, and the
power is yearning to be used, but slow as the
construction job has been it has outstripped produc-
tion of rolling-stock. In consequence, although a
few electrics ply to Penrith, steam-locomotives,
hauling antiquated dog-boxes, still puff their smoke
contemptuously at the idle wires overhead.
But neither of these “completed” jobs can be
regarded as reducing the list of unfinished country
“works.” Penrith today is not much more than an
outer suburb; even Katoomba has its trainloads of
commuters who journey to Sydney and back every
day. Yet Inverell is still waiting for its railway to
a deep-sea port at Iluka, promised in 1947. For
that matter, Iluka is still waiting for its deep-sea
port. Months ago Cahill made it clear that he
intended to fight his election campaign on the cry
that he could have done all these things if only
the Federal Government had let him have the
money. And despite his miscalculation over the
decision of the latest Loan Council meeting, which
confirmed the loan-allocations of last July without
the reductions he had expected, he is still basing
his appeal on the same howl, although its falsity
can be readily established.
If N. S. Wales has been treated parsimoniously
by the Loan Council, then Victoria must have
received a raw deal also—as, indeed, successive
Victorian Premiers have maintained it has. Yet
Victoria, by concentrating its available resources
on priority works, without regard for votes, has
completed two major projects, the Eildon Weir
and the Kiewa scheme, while the N. S. Wales
Government, for political purposes, has been
dissipating its loan-money far and wide over scores
of “works,” none of which at the present rate of
progress is destined to be finished before the end
of the century. The contrast between what one
State' has done with its loan-money and what
another State hasn’t should be sufficient answer to
Cahill’s complaints.
One might question, too, what Cahill would
have done with extra money if he had been able
to get it. The N. S. Wales Premier asks us to
believe that he would have spent it on doing those
things he has left undone. It is fair to ask him
how? With full employment —overfull, for there
are thousands of vacancies registered with the Com-
monwealth Employment Office —the mere raising
of more money would not produce the men required
to do the jobs, any more than the voting of it would
produce the money. Nor would it produce the
material and equipment for the extra men to handle.
The force of this is shown by the Federal Govern-
ment’s inability to spend its full allocation of
defence-funds last year. The money was there, but
the labor and material were not.
For several years Cahill has been spending
every penny that has come his way, but he has
little to show for it. More money in his hands
would not have meant more work accomplished.
But he could have accomplished much more even
with the funds he has received if he had planned
his work with a view to efficiency instead of votes.
Mismanagement, not lack of funds, is the reason
for his sorry showing.
While crying out for more and more money,
he and his predecessor McGirr have been recklessly
prodigal with the millions they have had. At one
swoop and without any regard to the capacity of
the community to pay for it, McGirr reduced by
10 per cent, the amount of work he could buy with
his loan-money. That was in 1947, when he* beat
the gun and prematurely introduced the 40-hour
week as an election-bribe. His successor, bowing
to Trades Hall dictates, went over the head of his
own Railways Commissioner to support the claims
of the railway unions for weekend “penalty-rates
—so-called, though weekend work is so eagerly
sought that men have threatened to strike if they
don’t get their fair share of it (or of the high pay
it brings for no extra work). More recently Cahill
snipped further value off his loan-money by restor-
ing quarterly basic-wage adjustments on State
awards —a move calculated to add £2 million a year
to the State wage-bill and £7 million a year to
that of private employers.
The flagrant dishonesty of Cahill and his
Ministers in the matter of public finance was
exposed by Country-party leader Bruxner after the
Loan Council meeting. Bruxner said that for
months past Ministers had been turning-down
requests for expenditure in country districts on the
plea of insufficient funds. Many Country-party
members had had letters from Ministers saying
that “owing to the fact that sufficient funds were
not made available by the Commonwealth to this
State by way of loan-allocation, it is impossible to
undertake the work.” This deliberate untruth was
being repeated almost up to the day Cahill went
to Canberra, yet when he returned, with his loan-
allocation uncut, he said unctuously that the Loan
Council decisions had “confounded the statements
that there would be cuts in our works programmes.
There was no “would be” in the original state-
ments. His own Ministers had said in wnting that
cuts had been made.
What sort of government can be expected from
a gang which falsifies facts in this manner? What
reliance can be placed on the promises its leader
makes in his policy for the next three’ years? ur
on any promise he makes? Cahill professes
want the electors to judge him on his record, h
they judge him on his record of unfinished worKS.
broken promises, wasteful expenditure, underhand
dealings and phony excuses New South Wales win
have a new Premier and a new Government alter
March 3.


BARNACLES


PLAIN ENGLISH
Crisis—and Cahill
The sudden action of the British Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Harold
Macmillan, in bringing down what is
described as “a miniature Budget’ only
six or seven weeks before the 1956-57
Budget-speech is due intimates the precari-
ous state of the economic position and
the Government’s realisation of the need
to take prompt action against inflation,
rising costs and overspending in the face
of the all-round lifts in wages and the
drift against the U.K. in competition for
world trade.
The changes include a rise in hire-
purchase deposits from 33-j- p.c. to
50 p.c. on motor-cars and washing-
machines and goods of similar category
and from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. on furniture.
Public-expenditure cuts are proposed,
along with a reduction of Government
subsidies on milk and bread, following
considerable rises in wages in agriculture
and breadbaking. By the suspension of
investment-allowances to industries to
encourage them to launch out into new
capital enterprises, it is expected to
restrict spending over a wide field. The
same process of restriction is to be applied
in local-government by holding-off the
starting of new schemes.
These measures, which are designed as
a brake on the national economy, but
not a very sharp one, followed immedi-
ately on the increase in the bank-rate to
5| per cent., which, though it has
hardened sterling, means that domestic
interest will almost certainly rise to
the region of p.c., indicating an addi-
tional check on expenditure of money
borrowed for homebuilding and other
purposes.
The steps taken are apparently a
getting-into-position for a stringent anti-
inflationary Budget and will act as a
warning not only to U.K. taxpayers and
spenders but to those of Australia that
the period ahead is not an economic bed
of roses.
The position is more dangerous in
Australia than in Britain because of the
duality of government here and the fact
that “Labor” State Governments con-
sider the essential factor in their pro-
grammes to be the need to do the opposite
to whatever the Commonwealth aims at.
While the rest of the world is draw-
ing in its horns and taking major steps to
protect prosperity and employment, still
existent at an all-time high level, Gov-
ernments like the Cahill and Gair State
Governments are busily engaged in vote-
buying by the development of schemes to
hand-out higher wages for less work and
for the construction of “works” in terms
which must have a dangerously infla-
tionary effect. They care nothing whether
or not the country is on the road to
ruin—it isn’t yet a while, but it might be
in a few years if their spending-jag,
carried on heedless of return in develop-
ment, continues. Somebody else can face
the consequences.
State electors now about to vote might
look the real facts in the face and con-
sider where the rises in wages and the
union policies of strike and squeeze
implemented under the direction of Com-
munist-minded saboteurs are going. One
fact which they might ponder, for it
stares them in the face, is that the price
of wool, our staple product, has fallen
from 85d. greasy average to 59.8 d.
per lb., January figures, since 1953.
The fall this year is about 13d. a pound.
Under their present policies of grab,
squander, loaf and obstruction of Com-
ifionwealth plans, “Labor” Governments
and Communist-actuated unions seem to
be endeavoring to race the country with
glad shouts to the edge of the precipice.
Morton's New Deal
In appealing to the people of New South
Wales to turn out the Cahill “Labor”
Government and give himself and
Colonel Bruxner a trial, Opposition-
leader Morton didn’t content himself
with enumerating the wrongs inflicted
upon the State in nearly 15 years of
“Labor” rule ; he set out to give in clear
detail a list of remedies his party pro-
poses to use to clean up the mess if the
electors give it a mandate to try. His
schedule of promises and undertakings
is a lengthy one-r-far more detailed than
any policy that has been delivered for
years—but it stands up to examination
remarkably well.
Recognising that public transport has
become a sink for public money, and
that this has a crippling effect on the
whole State Budget, he proposes to make
transport efficiency a Number One
target:
So deep-rooted are the troubles of our
transport-system that .nothing: short of
large-scale reorganisation is needed to
overcome them.... There are men in the
community who possess business ability,
imagination, drive and administrative
ability of the highest order. A Liberal
Government will ask these men to help run
the public-transport services.
Trains, trams and buses are to be
removed from political control. Three
commissioners will run the railways, and
a transport trust the trams and buses.
Dieselisation will be greatly extended;
the electrification programme will be
speeded-up ; an opportunity will be given
to private enterprise to build and run the
Eastern Suburbs railway; buses will pro-
gressively replace trams in the city.
In the industrial field a Liberal Gov-
ernment would strive to make the arbitra-
tion-system work more smoothly; it
would repeal the Compulsory Unionism
Act, but would maintain the 40-hour
week and long-service leave; expand
margins for skill and introduce secret
ballots in State trade-union elections. In
housing it would place the emphasis on
home-ownership rather than on rental
houses by making additional funds avail-
able to building-societies, arranging for
the Rural Bank to raise public loans for
housing, and it would seek to establish
a State savings-bank which would pay
special interest-rates on home-building
accounts. Rent-control would, however,
be maintained as long as the housing
shortage continued.
An attempt would be made to over-
come the shortage of schools and hos-
pitals by more effective use of loan-
funds and by calling for competitive
tenders; approved private hospitals
would be subsidised; pound-for-pound
assistance would be given to churches
and other institutions which built homes
for the aged ; trainee-teachers’ allowances
would be brought up to the level obtain-
ing in other States; headmasters would
be given greater powers to authorise
repairs and the teaching staff would be
removed, from the control of the Public
Service Board.
Mr. Morton promised a speeding-up in
public works, with better value for
money. He would use private contractors
wherever possible, with competitive
tenders, bonuses for early completion and
penalties for delay. A Public Works
Advisory Council would determine
priority, giving first place to flood-miti-
gation works. He repeated his offer of
a Bill of Rights and added a promise
which was much more practical —a com-
mittee of State Parliament to review all
regulations.
Referring to specific freedoms filched
or invaded by the Cahill Government, he
undertook to restore postal voting, to
amend the electoral laws to prevent the
rigging of boundaries; to guarantee a
just price for all land compulsorily
acquired, including land taken under the
Cumberland County Council Scheme
(which is to be completely reviewed). A
Liberal Government would hold a
referendum on Upper House reform, with
a view to having the Legislative Council
elected by popular vote.
Taking the policy all round, the
emphasis is on freedom rather than con-
trols ; on self-help rather than spoon-
feeding ; on efficiency rather than red-
tape ; on optimism and willingness to
work rather than on whingeing and
passing the buck. Altogether a business-
like programme, with a genuine ring of
honesty about it. And that is what New
South Wales needs in its Government
more than anything else.
"TKe Fight Goes On"
With bad grace the Australian wharf-
laborers shuffled-back to work last week,
having lost millions of pounds for them-
selves and the ship-owners. Numerous
trades, on the prosperity of which the
ability of Australia to pay the wharfies’
wages and keep them in work depends,
suffered also.
When the men returned to the wharves
the Communist leaders immediately deter-
mined to shut-down again for an hour
or two to allow them to distribute food
for the “starving,” a good many of whom,
to judge by the roaring trade that went
on at Sydney waterside pubs during the
strike, didn’t go short of beer, even if
they didn’t have enough meat and bread.
The tactics of the Communist Central
Committee, which forms the real, as
opposed to the ostensible, management of
the employees’ side of the dispute, is
obviously engaged in a carefully-
thought-out plan of irritation which it
hopes will lead to violence and the pro-
duction of a few martyrs hit on the
head by the police or otherwise the
victims of “capitalist brutality.”
The objectives are made quite clear
by the Communist press —to nullify
decisions of the arbitration court which
go against the union by the use of pres-
sure, blackmail, disruption of industry
in general and, if necessary, by force, if
they can get away with it.
The “Tribune” announced last week
that the “struggle will go on.” And with
every wharf short of labor to handle the
piled-up cargo they fight at an advantage.
The immediate objective of the council
of the W.W.F. is now a special A.C.T.U.
conference at which Mr. Monk and his
merry men can be bullied into the right
mood “to lay down a firm policy for a
wage-justice campaign.”
The W.W.F. council declared in a reso-
lution that “we can only regard the
A.C.T.U.’s proposals as a complete be-
trayal of their own original position, and
that of the combined unions, which was
supported unanimously throughout the
trade-union movement.” Neither the
W.W.F. nor the Trades and Labor Coun-
cils have given either Mr. Holt or Mr.
Monk their thanks for their conciliatory
attitude. The Communist party is play-
ing from strength in view of the disturb-
ing fact that it has the full backing of
the Trades Hall Councils in Brisbane,
Hobart and Melbourne, and that the
trembling managers of the N. S. Wales
T. and L. Council could muster up—-
amid frightening boo-hooing and intimi-
dation-only 86 votes to support the
A.C.T.U., against 74 in support of the
Communist viewpoint.
Mr. Healy assured the N. S. Wales
body during the debate that the W.W.F.
would not go to the court except on
wages as an issue separate from condi-
tion, adding threateningly that “we have
not yet decided what our next course of
action will be, but we propose to carry
on the struggle for the increase in mar-
ginal rates.”
The reduction of shearing-rates in
N. S. Wales by five per cent., during the
week, on the basis of the fall in wool-
prices, will certainly help to fan general
discontent, and it seems that transport
and fuel unions, seamen and railWaymen
included, are restless and subject to pro-
vocative urging to strike and establish a
“front of force” to gain wage-increases,
irrespective of whether economic condi-
tions justify them or not. The urgers are
encouraged considerably by the defeat of
nearly all the moderate elements in the
Federal “Labor” caucus executive and
the general triumph of Dr. Evatt at
caucus internal elections.
It is to be hoped that the Common-
wealth Government has some specific
plans to deal with the situation which
seems to be developing. A useful in-
gredient might be an intensive publicity
campaign to bring home to the average
worker what sort of men the Com-
munist leaders are.
It is too much to believe that the
average decent worker in the Watersiders’
or any other union is really prepared to
follow a party which considers that Mr.
Rupert Lockwood, author of the noisome
Document J of the Petrov Commission,
is a suitable candidate to represent it, at
the State elections.
Has "Labor 11 Learned?
“In the ACT”: Probably few people in
Australia, outside the actual members of
the diminished caucus, cared a great deal
about what happened during the throat-
slitting and back-stabbing at the election
of “Labor’s” Parliamentary leaders in
Canberra. They were interested to learn
that the Doc. had managed to cling on,
amused by the final vote, and quite
unmoved by the immediate rumors that
Arthur Calwell and “Eddie” Ward,
former enemies, were now buddies again
and hatching plots designed to topple
Evatt and Fraser, and possibly others.
It is long past the time when these bits
of shoddy schemings should have been
completely discarded. “Labor” has been
led in the past by men who, as well as
being realists, had some genuine, inspira-
tion and the ability to convince the
electors of their sincerity, and of their
ability to place the nation’s welfare above
party if necessary. They may have been
right or wrong, but at least they achieved
electorate success. The present team, full
of petty jealousies and puerile personal
animosities, can never convey such an
impression. They are unimportant in
the national scheme of things, and they
know it. Until someone inside the party
gets up and shows some signs of real
leadership and true respect for national
issues, “Labor” can resign itself to being
either regarded with contempt or ignored
by the people whose opinions count, and
whose votes are counted.
Outside the Parliament, there is one
welcome sign of some stirring in the
ranks. “Labor’s” Federal president, F. E.
Chamberlain, has called for complete
overhaul of the party's policy and its
selection machinery. He has said,
publicly, that too many people have
found their way into the party who are
just political careerists, and too many
offer only “the ability to mouth better
than anybody else a string of meaningless
platitudes.”
He has called for recasting of the
policy-making machine, saying that
specialists "in many ranks of human
endeavor should be enlisted, instead of
sending, “willy-nilly,” six people from
each State to form a Federal conference
which has the responsibility of formulat-
ing policy. He has announced that
“Labor” should not continue “popular-
boy competitions under the guise of
democratic selection-ballots,” and that
in Victoria at least the party is ready for
a comprehensive review of the present
system.
This is a welcome dash of cold water,
and it will be instructive to see how it
is received. So far, the Parliamentary
party in Canberra has presented a duck’s
back to it, with several of its members
possibly a little uneasy at the nearness of
some of the descriptions to themselves.
Perhaps the first steps in reform of the
party and of its return to usefulness in
Federal and State spheres lie in the direc-
tion of revised and rehabilitated policy.
An effective policy might be the lure to
drag into the party’s net men of calibre
and ability, immune from the miserable
preliminary hucksterings necessary now
to gain selection, and dedicated to a
cause. Until something of the kind is
done, “Labor” must continue to slip more
and more in public esteem, although it
seems incredible that it could fall much
lower than it is today.
Khrushchev and Us
As usual, not much of the discussion at
the Twentieth Congress of the Communist
Party of the U.S.S.R. in Moscow has
penetrated the awareness of the press of
the West. Nearly all the news of the
Russian Congress so far has come out of
Khrushchev’s six or seven hours of
speechmaking. It amounts to the fact
that for the nth time it hhs been
announced that the Communist and
capitalist worlds can live together; that
it is permissible to establish Socialism in
imperialist countries by Parliamentary
action, instead of revolution ; that Stalin’s
essays have been revised to meet the
needs of the new dictators; that all the
victims of Beria’s dastardly brutalities,
which for years were fully and enthusi-
astically endorsed by Comrade Khrush-
chev and friends, now fill the controllers
of the Kremlin with horror and that all
their former victims have been released
(except those buried under the floors of
Lubianka cellars) with profound
apologies for Beria from the new regime.
Comrade Khrushchev made himself
famous by being the first commissar in
Congress history to quote verse, which
was of a quality that belies the story that
Ern Malley is dead. Moreover, the
Soviet loves everybody but the people
who are preparing Baghdad Pacts and
Nato defences and who refuse to disband
their armed forces without guarantee
that Russia will dp the same, and insist
on letting West Germany arm instead
of becoming a sitting bird for Russian
occupation of the type that took over
the unarmed little countries of the Baltic
coastal region. These are “aggressors
and mad dogs who are threatening the
peace of the world.”
They are almost, one would judge, as
great a menace to the security of every-
body as the maleficent balloons which
the United States is launching in Europe
to fly over Russia and Siberia taking
photographs of Soviet military installa-
tions —balloons which, as was pointed
out to “The Times” correspondent in
Moscow the other day, are capable of
travelling 9000 miles in nine days, to be
picked up by American intelligence-men
in the Pacific Ocean.
Altogether, changes of line to suit
world climate and pave the way for more
pressures on border countries along the
Iron Curtain, and for Khrushchev’s
speeches when he makes a goodwill visit
to London shortly, were normal. So
were the empty assurances and the exposi-
tions of Communist theory which seem
to prove that the Communist party has
repudiated every solid tenet in its plat-
form and become capitalist or parlor-
Socialist in outlook.
Actually, all these expositions are
framed in double-talk in words which
have a different meaning in Communist
phraseology to their common meaning.
This technique in expression enables the
Communist pundit to speak truth in
identical words both to the Communist
(j Continued on next page)


and capitalist worlds, but with different,
and sometimes diametrically opposite,
meanings and implications to each set of
listeners. Everyone is thus satisfied and
reassured.
While Moscow has been holding its
peace-feast, however, there has been
some little disturbance to the atmosphere
of the southern Pacific through the
appearance round Fiji, where ships and
their personnel have lately gone missing,
of very large-size Russian K-class ocean-
going mine-laying submarines.
While perturbed, the Australian press
has pointed out that nothing can be
done to prevent the explorations of these
vessels right up to the edge of the three-
mile limit of the Australian coast. Russia
itself does something. Round Russia it
enforces, primarily, a 12-mile limit. And
any aircraft or vessel which ventures
within striking-distance of Vladivostok
disappears under gunfire.
In the softer atmosphere of the
Southern Hemisphere, however, nothing
like this is likely to happen.
It is in the Australian slab of Antarctic
territory that the camps of the Russians
—proved guilty of the grossest spying
from their Australian and South African
Embassies—have been set-up for the
“Geophysical Year.” Nobody has sug-
gested asking Russia to give Australian
scientists permission to set-up reciprocal
scientific camps in Arctic Siberia. The
answer would be a foregone conclusion.
POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill’s Three-year Itch isn’t very
serious. He’ll get over it in about another
10 days—March 3, to be precise. But,
until then, promises, promises and more
promises, all as false and delirious as
those he made three years ago.
• •
“Labor” having once again pointed
the poverty of its potential leadership by
reappointing the man who has riven
the party and led it to a succession of
defeats, the Doc, expressed “surprise and
gratification” at the size of his majority.
His gratification is exceeded only by that
of the Libs.
• •
Development of a civic square is con-
templated by the authorities at Canberra,
in conjunction with new offices at Civic
Centre. It seems a little like taking
another open space to the great open
spaces.
• •
Menzies has set-up two committees to
deal with Australia’s economic problems.
There will be eight Ministers and six
departmental administrators or econo-
mists. Since numbers don’t seem to
matter, why not make it an even sixteen
by adding one practical businessman or
experienced accountant and one Con-
stitutional lawyer with an interest in
national affairs?
• •
When Cahill in his policy-speech pro-
mised to raise the subsidy to surf-clubs
from £lOOO to £5OOO and Morton the
following night upped-it to £lO,OOO, it
looked very much as if the two were
competing for the beachcomber vote.
The fact is that the Libs, made the £5OOO
offer in their 1953 programme and since
then have several times asked Cahill to
increase the subsidy. Askin (Collaroy)
has been a persistent plugger for the
rise. Strange that Cahill became con-
vinced only on electipn-eve! Perhaps
Landa (Bondi) or Walsh (Coogee) has
been at him. Coogee, in particular, is
very vulnerable.
• •
Biggest round of applause during
Morton’s speech came when he under-
took to shift fruibbarrows from Sydney’s
main streets. This was not so much
because Sydney people dislike barrows
or even that they feel them a hindrance
to traffic. But barrows have become a
symbol for graft. While the Cahills
remain in office the barrows will stay
put—and so will graft.
• •
Opposition parties in the Queensland
Assembly have agreed on a joint policy
for the State election —date not yet fixed,
but likely to be announced shortly after
“Labor’s” conference at Mackay next
week. Many of the points will also be on
“Labor’s” programme. Two that won’t
be are a promise to reintroduce land-
settlement for ex-servicemen—shelved by
the Gair Government three years ago—
and the setting-up of an independent
tribunal to fix Parliamentary salaries.
• •
Comrade Mikoyan, one of Stalin’s
favorite lieutenants, was at pains to tell
the World through the 20th Communist
Congress the U.S.S.R. that the indi-
vidual political godhead and erroneous
doctrines of Stalin have been replaced by
“collective leadership” and true Lenin-
ism-Marxism. This has been achieved
under the banner of the glorious
Khrushchev. Thirty years ago Stalin
was rejoicing about the abolition of the
Leninist-Trotskyist error in favor of col-
lective rule, and Trotsky was racing to
avoid meeting Beria’s subsequent fate. No
doubt the “personality cult” of Khrush-
chev is just round the corner.
• •
In the Senate on Thursday night
Senator Wood alleged that Queensland
pastoralists had been required to pay
“blood money” for renewal, of their
leases. The practice, he said, was well
known ; stock-and-station agents accepted
the fact that the fee had to be paid. He
named as a go-between Peter Fleming,
a man with a slaughtering-abattoirs
licence; said the fee varied from £2OOO
to £lO,OOO and that the money was “going
into the hands of certain people in the
Parliament of Queensland.”
In July last year R. J. Bukowski,
Queensland president of the A.W.U.,
after his union’s paper “The Worker”
had made somewhat similar allegations,
offered to appear at the Bar of the House
in the Queensland Parliament and “give
certain facts relating to Crown-land
leases.” Opposition-leader Nicklin pro-
posed that Bukowski’s offer be taken up,
but the “Labor” Government defeated
the motion, Premier Gair claiming that
no specific charges had been made, no
credible witnesses had been named and
no identifiable persons had been men-
tioned.
On Friday Gair announced that a royal
commission would be set-up to inquire
into Senator Wood’s charges. A Supreme
Court judge would be appointed and
terms of reference would be announced
as soon as possible.
Opposition-leader Nicklin said he wel-
comed the decision, but commented
rather sadly that it would prevent discus-
sion of the matter at the Labor-in-Politics
convention at Mackay and during the
election campaign.
• •
Many of Cahill’s public works were
merely publicity-works. Now they’re
bringing him the wrong kind of publicity.
THE REMEDY'S CLOSE AT HAND
“Cosmos”: Melbourne wharfies explain
Albert Monk’s climb-down by alleging
that Harold Holt threatened to pull the
Crimes Act on him for directing a strike ;
they feel Albert isn’t made of the stuff
of martyrs. Which reminds me of a
wharfies’ stop-work meeting a couple of
years back in which Federal assistant-
secretary Roach was lamenting his
terrible experiences in prison. “Then the
judge,” declared Roach, “said he would
adjourn the hearing until the next day.
He said to me, 1 advise you to get legal
representation in the meantime.’ ”
“Must ’ave knew you was a log,”
observed one of his audience.
• •
Claiming to have given South Australia
sane and well-balanced government,
Playford in his policy-speech was able
to quote facts and figures to support his
claim. A few: Since quarterly adjust-
ments ceased earnings of workers had
increased by 12£ per cent., while living-
costs had risen by only half that amount;
in three years the number of factories
had risen from 3240 to 3750 and the in-
dustrial wage-bill from £53.5 million
to £68.5 million. Migration and a high
birthrate had increased the school popu-
lation by 64 per cent, in eight years, while
the average increase for the rest of Aus-
tralia was only 43 per cent.
• •
Nobody seems to know in Canberra
whether the five Federal under-secretaries
and their five-guinea-a-day expense-list
are to continue to exist in the new
Parliament. Two of them, at any rate,
are not working hard to retain office—
Falkinder and Hamilton were in the thick
of the fight against the Ministerial
salary-expansion plan.
“Labor” doesn’t seem to be approach-
ing the South Australian elections with
any great degree of confidence. The
party is contesting only 23 of the 39
Assembly seats. There’ll be 29 Liberal-
Country-League starters, 11 Indepen-
dents, 10 Anti-Communist “Labor” and
3 Communists.
Upshot of this is that 16 M.H.A.s have
been elected unopposed. Ten are
Liberals; six “Labor.”
Two of the Communists are opposing
the sitting “Labor” members in Adelaide
and Port Adelaide, with Anti-Corn.
Laborites also in the field. The third is
pitting himself against Premier Playford
in Gumeracha.
In the old Parliament the distribution
of seats was: L.C.L., 21; “Labor,” 14;
Independent, 4.
• •
Casey has rebuked the irrepressible
Senator (Major-General) George Rankin
for having truthfully accused members
of the Soekarno Government in Indo-
nesia of collaborating with the Japanese.
He (Casey) officially apologised to the
Indonesians. The fight produced the comic
spectacle of Dr, Evatt supporting the
General, who regards him as lower
politically than garden fiatweed. The
man who should have been rebuked was
the president of the Senate, who
apparently didn’t know that it is com-
pletely unparliamentary for a member
to reflect on the head of a friendly State.
But as a great Constitutionalist like Dr.
Evatt apparently does not know, either,
perhaps the president can’t be blamed.
A Brisbane drive-in theatre is adver-
tised as “Ausrtralia’s most spectacular
drive-in.” Nonsense! That title belongs
to Cahill’s Compulsory Unionism Act.
* •
The royal commission into the Collins-
ville mine disaster in which seven men
were killed in October, 1954, presented its
report last week. It found that no blame
was attachable to the Queensland Gov-
ernment (Collinsville is a State mine) or
to any individual. The accident was due
to an outbreak of almost pure carbon-
dioxide gas ; there was no neglect to take
reasonable precautions.
The commissioners had also been
asked to say whether it was in the public
interest that operations at the mine
should be discontinued. They reported
that it should continue to be used and
that mechanisation should be maintained.
They recommended the formation of a
Government-owned company to run the
mine,, which they considered could be
made to pay.
If the commissioners are right on this
last point then there must have been
something radically wrong with the run-
ning of the mine in the past; in the year
ended June, 1954, it lost £160,000 and
in the year to June, 1955, £196,000.
• •
Australia will spend £11,875 on a stand
at the British Food Fair at Olympia,
London, next August as well as the £5OOO
now being spent to sell canned-fruit. The
stand will be twice as large as that at the
last fair and it should give our products
a useful boost.
• •
Victorian courts, following the lead
set by Parliament, are clamping-down on
youths who pinch—beg pardon, illegally
use —cars. Last week Judge Read gave
one culprit 2£ years —he already has a
long record—and commented that stern
punishment was the only way to stamp
out the practice.
• •
“Deg”: Ballot-paper for the Victorian
referendum asks: “Are you in favor of
the extension of hotel trading-hours on
week-days, until 10-o’clock in the even-
ing?” Below, the words “Yes” and
“No” in that order, a square against
each for the voter’s mark. I’m voting
for 10-o’clock, but if the Senate vote is
any guide there’ll be a lot of people
putting No. 1 in the top square who don’t
really agree with me.
• •
An ancient Greek described the
Egyptians as a “dexterous people.” They
are still that. Last week they were assured
finance from the Western World Bank
towards building the Assouan (British-
planned) dam. Next day they accepted
a nuclear-physics laboratory, complete
with staff, from Russia. Then they
arrested 63 Communist conspirators in
Cairo, followed this by buying a large
steelworks from Hungary and topped it
off by praising British co-operation in
hastening withdrawal of troops from the
Canal zone ahead of schedule.
• •
“Wusslean”: A. J. Bailey, M.L.C., is
a fortunate man: in addition to drawing
£2OOO a year as a member (Anti-Com-
munist “Labor”) of Victoria’s Upper
House he earns £l3 16s. 9d. a week as
full-time barman at the Port Phillip Club
Hotel. Now he is under fire from the
Liquor Trades Union secretary, who has
threatened him with “political destruc-
tion” unless he quits his hotel job. Nice
to see someone sticking up for the prin-
ciple of one-man-one-job, even if the
reason given isn’t that a full-time job in a
pub is scarcely compatible with the re-
sponsibilities of a highly paid legislator,
but that some other liquor-trades union-
ist is being done out of a job.
• •
Victoria, in seeking a successor to the
late R. G. Wishart as chairman of rail-
way commissioners, is not confining , the
search to Australia. The job has been
advertised throughout the world and
applications have already arrived from
aspirants in many lands. Late starters
have until the end of the month to stake
their claim.
• •
“In the ACT”: In a graceful letter to
the A.C.T. Advisory Council former
Minister for the Interior “Billy” Kent
Hughes said it had been an honor to
have been the Minister during the
period of greatest expansion in the history
of Canberra. He didn’t say anything
about the recommendations of the
council which he’d ignored for months.
However, he wished the council good
luck in future. Its members, a little
overcome with emotion, reciprocated his
good wishes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
SOMETHING new in medical history,
. seen mostly at “Casualties,” and
just as old as the pillion-seat of a motor-
bike ; almost entirely confined to females,
it is either completely round or oval in
shape—the exhaust-burn on the calf of
the young - lady passenger.—“ Sister
Ellell.”
* ❖ *
“Morehead”: As one just past his
half-century I invariably quote my years
as an excuse for doing nothing strenuous,
such as helping my son-in-law mow his
lawn. So when my granddaughter, aged
five, urged me to slide down a slippery-
dip in the park, I asked to be excused on
account of my age. Christine eyed me
intently for a few seconds, and then said
“Do you know what I think, Grandpa?
I think you’ve had your bloody chips.”
I am now waiting to have a few words
[with my son-in-law.
"It was j ust a s illy Tver's liff —I didn't know the gun was loaded."
“G. Elburg”: Without expectation of
fee or hope of reward I draw the atten-
tion of Messrs. Henderson, Packer and
Norton, of Sydney, to a neglect of
potential revenue. Those grinning ladies
pictured in the social pages—why not a
by-line, “Dentures by Dr. Tuskany,” or
some other of the molar-making and
-treating fraternity? Should dentists
refuse to advertise, the ladies should be
photographed with their mouths shut,
under the sound newspaper principle that
no attention of any kind must be drawn
to unadvertised products.
❖ ❖
“Pro Bono”: The private bar of a
Brisbane hotel sports a squat but shapely
beer-glass. With one of these in his hand,
the guff-and-guffaw type barged up to
an acquaintance, who was conversing
with someone else. “Would a man get
the same sentence for pinching a dozen
of these as he would for pinching one?”
he prattled. “Don’t know,” said the
interrupted one, nodding to his com-
panion ; “ask him—he’s the licensee! ”
❖ * *
“Tosca Ninny”: A swimming-pool
shaped like a grand-piano embellishes
the backyard of U.S. pops-pianist Lib-
erace. Liberace can’t swim, either.
“Wusslean”: Glancing through one of
my wife’s magazines I came upon: “Her
heart-shaped face was alive with
laughter.” Mrs. W. observed that she
didn’t know why, but it was “the thing”
for fictional heroines to have that shape
of face these days. I checked-up with a
few other publications: sure enough, in
nearly all the girl who wins the eligible
young chap has a heart-shaped face.
Years ago it was “the perfect oval of her
features.” Ovals have gone out, maybe
because of cricket and football. No-
body wants the kind of face you could
play football on.
“S.”: I am informed that the Moomba
Australian Book Fair in Melbourne next
month will have a nautical setting with
decorations from the Melbourne Harbor
Trust and the Navy Department, and the
“S.S. Australiana” anchored in the Town
Hall preparatory to setting out on a
world-cruise. I trust the principal exhibit
will not be Love Me, Sailor.
£ 4 * <4
“Pill”: Man in a tram after reading
where chemists are to raise their prices,
banged his paper down and snorted:
“Wouldn’t they make you sick! ” Seems
everything’s a plot these days.
A
* v *
“G.M.”: A fairly common dream is
one where the dreamer is out walking
and spots some silver coins on the foot-
“Leap year!"
path. He picks them up, then sees some
more, and some more, and goes on pick-
ing up lucre for half-an-hour. I’ve had
the dream often, and thought it had come
true recently when I was taking the dog
for a walk along a bush-track and
sighted a florin shining in the sun on
the side of a bank. I picked it up, then
noticed a penny near by. In a couple of
minutes I had collected the magnificent
sum of 7s. 3d. from the undergrowth.
I’m still wondering how it got there. But
having found it, there was only one thing
to do . . . One off a fiver!
* * ❖
“Dorian”: We’d been reading a report
on increased beer-consumption when he
remarked, “Do you realise that beer,
after many chemical changes, is even-
tually evaporated and sucked-up into
the atmosphere? In fact,” he added,
gazing out the window at the steady
rainfall, “beer is probably falling now.”
And, as a sad afterthought, “Without
the alcohol, though.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“8.N.”: On the last day of the tennis-
championships 'in Adelaide, when the
showers fell regularly upon us poor
peasants in the open stand, one gent,
draped himself, somewhat stiffly, in a
large blue-and-yellow-check plastic table-
cloth. Another strode manfully past
wearing, togalike, an old — very old and
very scorched —grey ironing-blanket. Two
others had removed the plastic cover
from their car-seat: they sat under this
like a pair of exotic toadstools even
when the rain eased-off —apparently
following the game through the clip-
holes.
* ❖ *
“Bindaroo”: It was interesting, during
the waterside-strike, how negotiations
were conducted on the run. They started,
aptly enough, in the Arbitra-
tion Court in Sydney; then
went on to abortive talks in
Ministerial offices in Can-
berra, after which Mr. Holt
retired for the weekend to
his seaside place at Sorrento
(Vic.). Next, Mr. Monk, of
the A.C.T.U., went on talk-
ing by telephone from Mel-
bourne to Mr. Holt at
Sorrento; after which Mr.
Holt, at his Toorak home
(“Back From Sorrento,” as
the song goes), still photo-
graphed in beachwear, was
visited by Mr. Monk. Then
negotiations returned to the Canberra-
Sydney axis. Public affairs hardly achieved
a more thorough run-around when Mr.
Speaker was P.M.G. and supervised the
Post Office from Kangaroo Island.
* * *
“Bass”: The British High Court has
quashed two convictions against English
bakers of having sold “unsound” food.
As to the loaf containing a piece of
string, the Chief Justice said that all the
buyer had to do was pull out the string
and he had a perfectly good loaf. Of
the bun containing a piece of metal on
which the customer bit, the appeal judge
said that game wasn’t unfit for human
consumption because it had shot in it,
and Christmas-puddings were still O.K.
if they held threepenny-bits. The judg-
ment should have the effect of putting
British consumers on their metal,
# #
* * v
“Cauboy”: On my usual beat, went
round to Melbourne Tiv. and found it
closed—first time since 25 years ago when
the stage had to be strengthened to take
the weight of the menagerie of camels,
donkeys and horses in Oscar Asche’s
“Chu Chin Chow.” This time it’s to
freeze the stage over for a combined
ice-and-stage show —on the formidable
authority of Mr. David Martin, the first
in the history of the world. Every pre-
caution is being taken to prevent the ice
melting, including the non-employment
of a comedian of the quality of the late
Mo.
“Spasebo”: Australian vignerons are
intensely disappointed because New Aus-
tralians from wine-drinking countries
have been seduced by beer. It could
have been worse—they might have taken
to tea.
% * *
“Metralia”: Olympic fans fearful of
not getting accommodation may be
relieved to hear that some Melbourne
hotels will offer beds at around £BO-a-
-fortnight. It might be cheaper to stay in
Sydney or Adelaide and commute daily to
the Games by air.
❖ ❖
“Erah”: Grandma, staying with a
family of grandsons, was critical of their
boisterous ways. On Saturday night the
boys leaving for the pictures called out,
“Hooroo!” Grandma staggered all by
replying, “Hip, hip, hurrahhhh!” and
settled herself with a book.
❖
“Dhas”: Startling report on the
N.S.W. floods from Sydney “Sun”:
Constable Ron Watson, of Toongabbie,
today rescued three boys who were clinging
for their lives to a fence in racing
floodwaters.
Constable Watson at first was unable to
reach them.
But he saw a boy floating down the
creek.
He grabbed it, pulled part of it on to
the bank and then walked out along it.
Altogether the constable must be feeling
quite buoyed-up about it.
• ••••*
“0.G.”: Because of flooded low-lying
streets, the police had diverted traffic via
Thompson-road. At midday the sergeant
was told by phone, “The water in Thpmp-
son-road is too deep. No car will try to
cross it.” “Nonsense,” he replied. “In
other floods as bad as this Thompson-
road has always been shallow enough for
any car . . . How do you know it is too
deep?” “Two boys, twelve to fourteen,
are waist-deep in it splashing each other.”
The sergeant hooked-up. “Impossible,
he said to a constable. “Drive me there
at once.” Many motorists passed in the
opposite direction. Several called out:
“You can’t get through.” When the
sergeant saw the boys he exclaimed: “I
would never have believed it if I hadn’t
seen it! , . . Go back to the station.
As their car was turning a girl shouted
from across the water: “Mum said if
y’re not ’ome in five-minutes you’ll get a
beltin’ —and y’ won’t get any dinner!”
The two boys stopped splashing, got up
off their knees and ran home tq Mum.
BARNACLE BERT
Who is that knocking at the door
Of Mistress Cahill ? “Oh, my lor’,
l feel I can’t hold out no more !”
Said that poor young maiden.
“It’s only the breeze
That’s knocking your knees!’’
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
“I promised l would house the mob,
Then put the blame on Uncle Bob-~
He says it’s all a put-up job !”
Said the poor young maiden.
"There’s nothing too bad
To say of that cad!”
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
%
“Five times I’ve put them off with words,
Five times I’ve put them off with words;
Six times is strictly for the birds !”
Said the poor young maiden.
“It’ll be a surprise
If you’ve run out of lies !”
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
“Because of you I suffer shame;
My House is one of evil fame ;
They use your name to slur my name!”
Said the poor young maiden.
"I’m sticking to you
Like a bucket of glue !”
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
"Apart from you, I can’t get rid
Of little nephew Bill-the-Kid, —•
He up and cheeked the Beak, he did!”
Said the poor young maiden.
"If you need a Q.C.
You’ve always got me !”
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
"I might stick on, with any luck,
If other clams would come unstuck
Or wouldn’t drag me in the muck!”
Said the poor young maiden.
"If it’s heaven or hell
I’m going as well!”
Said Barnacle Bert the Sailor.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


TF there’s a sight in Sydney that saddens
I me it’s a great rugged traffic-cop
shrinking under the shop-verandas for
shelter every time it rains; while pedes-
trians, bolder perforce as they scurry
to their jobs, plough into the storm and
get bowled-over right and left by half-
blinded motorists. Do the police-authori-
ties really permit this retreat of their
stalwarts just when they are most
needed? Why not give them either a
simple plastic raincoat or a nice big
umbrella, like a bookie’s, and let them
perch under that? —“Mac Hoots.”
*l* ❖ ♦♦♦
“F.A.M.”: Having been warned by
police in a Brisbane suburb never to
accept a lift from an unknown driver,
and always to take the number of the
vehicle if offered one, a little girl was
walking home from school when a car
stopped and a voice she did not recog-
nise said, “Hop in and I’ll drive you
home.” “No, thank you,” she responded,
virtuously staring straight ahead. The
car drove on ; she memorised the num-
ber, raced home and telephoned the
police; and the parish clergyman had
quite a bit of explaining to do.
•£4
“Max”: Smog-encrusted visitors to
Tasmania either don’t realise or forget
that the air over the island is some of
the clearest anywhere. Every year there
are complaints of painful sunburn after
only an hour or so on southern beaches.
There are spots where the air is pretty
rarefied, too. I took a Melbourne friend
to a party at The Springs, halfway up
Hobart’s Mount Wellington. He was a
pretty experienced drinker, but after
only three glasses of brandy-and-soda
he was inarticulate. He still swears the
stuff was tampered with. Travel-agency
brochures might well include a precis on
these traps to the unwary.
♦l* <£♦ . *!♦
“8.N.”: In the quietness which des-
cends on suburbia about 9.30 p.m. the
birth-pangs of preluding bagpipes rent
the air. By the time I made the front-
gate the street was alive with people.
Opposite, a small semi-detached cottage
blazed with lights; from the windows
and doorways people seemed suspended
horizontally. On the veranda a piper
strode up and down like a caged lion —
three paces was his limit either way. A
group of New Australians clapped and
cheered from near by—this was a bit
more like home, even if the instrument
was unfamiliar and the dress (“a man in
a skirt”) incomprehensible.
4+4 4*4 4*4
“Sparks”: Queensland’s electricians’
strike has demoralised Brisbane’s public
servants because of no power for electric-
jugs and other tea-brewers. Tea faked on
spirit- and primus-stoves just doesn’t taste
the same, and tea out of a vacuum-flask
is unthinkable! One large Common-
wealth department, however, managed to
instal a copper boiler at the rear, from
which the billy-boys drew their-hot water.
The only ones not really happy about
the arrangement were the billy-boys them-
selves, as, laden with teapots, they
trudged wearily up and down flights of
steps past immpbilised lifts.
4j4 4*4 4j4
“Peter Simple”: If “P.0.M.C.” (B.
8/2/’56) had pulled an N.S.'W. train
communication-cord in earnest instead
of in error, he mightn’t have got the same
result. I tried-out one of these gadgets
when the train failed to stop at Coota-
mundra and was whirling me towards
Junee. It didn’t work. I invited the
stationmaster at Junee to try it for him-
self. He refused, but solemnly took my
name and address, hinting that pulling the
cord simply because I was carried 30
miles beyond my destination at four-
o’clock on a winter’s morning wasn’t “in
emergency.” To be on the safe side I
collected a receipt for 70s. from the taxi-
driver who landed me back in Coota
nearly two hours later ; and after months
of worrying the department was lucky
enough to get a refund. My luck held,
too, because I heard no more of the cord-
pulling.
“Oranfg Puteh”: Pulling emergency-
cords can be profitable. An Australian
mining-engineer, living in Penang, used to
visit a tin-mine on the Penang-Bangkok
line. As the express didn’t stop at the
wayside station it was necessary to go on
to the nearest stopping-place, stay over-
night, and travel back to the mine by
slow train next day. The engineer made
things easy by pulling the emergency-
cord, alighting at his station, and paying
the guard the fine, 10 ticals, then worth
about a pound. I have witnessed the
hold-up, and the broad grin on the face
of the guard. I presume the fine was
credited to railway-revenue.
♦*4 4+4 4*4
“Baggyduds”: Must point out to
“Apemantus” (B. l/2/’56) that any re-
marks passed by the 16,000-odd Aussie
Garrison Force to their 136,000 Jap
guests in Rabaul after the war entirely
“He has a deceptive quality of objective awareness, together with a
subdued striving and conflicting line-economy.”
lacked any “ring of affectionate admira-
tion or tone of friendly respect,” but did
contain plenty of implication! “Bar-
steward” became a popular euphemism
after a 1940 cartoon by, I think, Stan
Cross. This depicted a German calling
out from his trench that, as the German
soldiers were so mauling the British
Lion, they had been renamed “Lion-
tamers.” A scrawny Dig. bellowed
back, “Yeh, we got some o’ them blokes
over here too, only we call ’em lyin’ bar-
stewards!” Hail “blankard,” for clubs
and end-of-the-year parties, when the boss
is mellow enough to take it, but for the
Army, drawing-rooms only for the use
of, it’s “bar-steward”!
❖ * ❖
“Gyro-Joe”: The party was loaded
with talent, and after the fourth round
of amontillado someone started on group-
nouns: a passing of taxis, an elongation
of anglers, a dawdling of waiters, a pro-
crastination of plumbers, a gusher of
bores . . . “How would you
describe a group of ladies-of-
the-town?” asked a bored
looker-on. “Perhaps, a jam of
tarts, eh?” “How about a
flourish of strumpets?” mused
a theatrical guest. “Jolly good! ”
said a scholarly character. “But
consider —an essay of Trol-
lope’s?” “Gentlemen,” broke
in the host, “let us pass from
this unseemly subject to an
anthology of pros.”
❖ ♦> *
“D.J.G.”: Melbourne’s St.
Kilda Junction, where five roads
meet, some carrying trams, was
a motorist’s nightmare until it
was laid-out on the roundabout-
system, with painted boards,
supported by sandbags, direct-
ing the flow of traffic. Many
drivers who used to go a mile
or so out of their way to avoid
its perils found it possible to
navigate the reorganised passage
in safety. Now, after months
of satisfactory trial, the make-
shift roundabout is to be aban-
doned because the authorities , can’t agree
who is to pay for permanent barriers. I’d
willingly put in five-bob, and if other
users did the same the job could be done
without costing the niggardly authorities
a penny.
>:♦ ♦> *
“Pthod”: Caught the bus by expend-
ing all reserve wind, dug-up my tenpence
ready to hand the driver when I got off,
and perused my favorite monthly, stop-
ping at an article explaining “Why.” The
doctor maintained and demonstrated that
unconscious mistakes are half-deliberate,
as you remember what you want best,
and what you dislike, or find painful,
least, or not at all. Food for thought
as I walked up the hill towards home, my
tenpence still in my hand.
i* ❖ ❖
“Emyagee”: During the World Council
of Churches show at Sydney Showground
a weary woman asked why she couldn’t
sit in a small pavilion between the Coro-
nation- and Members’-stand. “Sorry,
missus,” said the attendant, “it’s being
kept for the Fire Brigade! ” So it was —
later o» it seated the Council of the
W.C.C., one of the world’s few insurance-
companies against hell-fire.
* ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: In the Australian cricket-
team going to England, the score-man is
a Mr. Gorman.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Augustus”: As a boy, when passing
our local store, I was always greatly
impressed with the dignity of the sign
which read General John Farnham
Storekeeper. This placing of a pro-
prietor’s name in the midst of his trade-
designation, however, can create a mean-
ing quite the opposite to that intended, as
in a Sydney suburb sign: Watch Smith’s
Repairs.
& ♦ ❖
“Dorian”: Our cat takes his siesta on
top of the piano, at the bass end, and
there sleeps through many a thunderous
lower-region passage. But his nocturnal
caterwaulings continue to show the
influence of Rosemary Clooney.
* ❖ *
“Bo”: Never let it be said that I fail
to acknowledge ingenuity whenever I
come across it; and so I freely pay tribute
to the cleverness with which manufac-
turers of a rotary-type electric lawn-
mower have simulated the ascending and
descending whine of a war-time air-raid
alarm, which I find so restful while still
bashing the blankets on a Sabbath morn.
How disturbed and annoyed I would
have been had they picked on, say, the
cooing of a dove or the sound of beer
being poured out of a bottle in their
search for something for the motor to
imitate!
♦> * *
“Balwyn”: London surgeons using an
electro-cardiograph to record a patient’s
heart-action were amazed to hear music
instead of the expected heartbeats. A
hurried phone-call to the 8.8. C. resulted
in a brief stoppage of the near-by TV-
station’s transmission for a bit of hearts
interest.
& *> A*
“Two Jays”: Odd things are done to
ensure that the customer receives no
more than he pays for. I have seen two
grapes removed from a 21b. bag, an
undersized new potato replaced by an
even smaller one. But today’s effort beat
the lot. After weighing-out my cream-
wafers, the shop-assistant removed half a
wafer from the scales —and popped it into
his mouth! Just as well they don’t sell
arsenic.
A FEW SUGGESTIONS
“The P.M.G. has announced that £lOO would
be paid for designs to be adopted this year to
replace those of old stamps. The proposed
designs should illustrate Australian life and
scenes.”
There is, in truth, of scenes no lack.
For one, a simple poster shown
By “Daily Yell”: “Sex Maniac
Menaces Blonde —Saved by a Groan !”
A scene, perhaps, of Flemington :
Where mobs of savage punters shout,
Leather-lunged and in unison,
As favorite’s tossed in wretched run :
“Give us our dough back!” “Rub ’em
out!”
A bunch of aldermen, a-grin
As V.G. men the pavements pound,
Knowing more rates will soon roll in
With valuations up all round;
A posse of cops, dragging from club
Bandits, held by their single arm ;
A Bung at door of city pub,
Seeking the guest who wants but grub
And bed, and needs no counter-charm.
Some horse-tail . hare-brained girls who're
in
Hysteria watching Nat “King” Cole;
Two bureaucrats, as they begin
To exercise remote-control;
A citizen, leaving his lair,
Carrying goloshes, raincoat, gamp ;
Who’d just received, over the air,
The weather-tip: “Mostly fine.” Now,
there
Would be a most attractive stamp!
Some brewery-executives
Depicted eating counter-lunch ;
A close-up, as a wrestler gives
Adversary a phony punch;
A race-official, caught as he
Takes one more of the many swabs;
And (a whole series there could be
Of this, as you will all agree),
Shots of Joe Cahill’s unfinished jobs.
This scene might win the postal-stakes:
The Uni.’s electronic-brain
Working this out: How long it takes
To get a taxi in the rain.
And this I vow: more popular
Thfln one bright scene there would be
none —
Cars, bumper-bar to bumper-bar,
The “bomb,” the gleaming Jaguar,
Crawling, the line stretched out afar,
To represent our Sunday fun !
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


LIAfl,
►
tf t*ifoaJUa,
■jiA&nU
HSmM
... the aristocrat of Australian skies
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPV23B
PERSONAL ITEMS
When his family can make the proud
boast that eighteen of its members have
served their country with distinction in
the past three centuries, the most recent
of them as Prime Minister charged with
keeping his land out of a war which
engulfed all its neighbors, the prospects
of a young man adding further lustre to
the name do not seem particularly bright.
The odds don’t seem to have daunted Dag
Hammarskjold, son of Sweden’s Prime
Minister of World War I. A graduate
of Uppsala University in Arts, Economics
and Laws, and since 1953 Secretary-
General of United Nations, he first came
into prominence in the 1930 depression
when a thesis he had written on market
trends brought him the job of secretary to
a Government committee on unemploy-
ment. It is claimed that the measures
recommended by the committee enabled
SECRET ARY-GENERAL
Sweden to ride-out the economic storm
better than most European countries.
At 31 he became Under-Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance, and for several
years doubled that job with the post of
chairman of the National Bank of
Sweden. By the end of War II Hammar-
skjold was adviser to the Swedish
Government on economic and financial
problems and led trade-delegations to
Britain, U.S.A. and other countries.
As Deputy Foreign Minister he attended
the 1947 Paris Conference establishing the
Marshall Plan, and from then onwards
became a familiar figure at international
and U.N. discussions, leading to appoint-
ment as Secretary-General. Hammar-
skjold spent a few days in Canberra last
week on his way back to headquarters
from a meeting of the U.N. Economic
Commission for Asia, held at Bangalore,
India.
• •
Fast-talking, alertly intelligent, Yank
all over (he should be —he hails from
within a Blackfeet arrow-shot of the cave
where Mr. Crockett held court while
making Tennessee law-abiding), Samuel
Nickey IV lobbed in Brisbane with
definite ideas on our timber. Better
dollar-spinner than wheat, he says—be
proud to use Queensland plywood ; we’re
missing-out on a “tremendous timber-
market” in the States. Wheat? Huh!
Canada can look after the world’s re-
quirements for three years. But timber!
A tree grows 20 per cent, each year.
After a fire it don’t put out anything for
eight years. So—control our bushfires, and
we’re in the big dough. In this timber-
country for a bit of business but mainly
pleasure, before northing to the Philip-
pines (all business), Sam is boss of Nickey
Brothers, tall timber-merchants of
Memphis (Tenn.).
In the matter of scholarships the Uni-
versity of Melbourne has, so to speak,
gone into reverse. Under the terms of
the British Memorial Fund —a Victorian
institution —instead of Australian Fellows
being exported to Oxford and Cam-
bridge, English Fellows are being
imported into Australia. Last week the
first four, having completed their year,
were given a farewell. One of them,
John Ellingworth, an economics graduate
of Leeds University whose specialty is
textiles, spent his year studying burr in
wool. When he arrived C.5.1.R.0. was
also turning its mind, to the same pro-
blem, so it handed-over to the English
Fellow. What he learned is likely to be
of as much benefit to Australia as to
England. The C.5.1.R.0. apparently
thinks so ; it is seeking an extension of
his scholarship.
• •
Air-Commodore Cyril Kay, 0.8. E.,
D.F.C., incoming Chief of Air Staff in
New Zealand, succeeds Air-Vice-Marshal
W. H. Merton, C. 8., 0.8. E., R.A.F.,
who returns to England in June. An
Auckland man, till now Air Member for
Personnel, Kay will take air-vice-marshal’s
rank. Australians should remember him
as the bloke who in 1930 flew from Eng-
land with Piper in an attempt to lower the
record; also as co-pilot with Wing-
Commander J. Hewett in the Macßobert-
son race. He joined the R.A.F. in 1926,
and switched nine years later to the
R.N.Z.A.F. When war came he was on
course in England, and he went into
action first with 75 Squadron, then with
No. 8 Group. >
• •
To most of us the name Vanderbilt
means millions by the dozen, fabulous
yachts, night-club society and strings of
racehorses. Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt,
now visiting Australia and New Zealand,
can’t deny the millions and the horses—
his best ever, Native Dancer, retired to
the stud 18 months ago with a record of
21 wins in 22 starts, his only failure the
Kentucky Derby, and his winning-stakes
785,000 dollars. But the yachts and night-
clubs don’t attract Vanderbilt much now-
adays. In Tojo’s war he served in the
Pacific with the U.S. Navy-r4O combat-
missions in PT-boats; Silver Star; six
months in a cruiser and a spell in New
Guinea —and afterwards turned his
attention to the World Veterans’ Fund,
the U.S. end of the World Veterans’
Federation, “an anti-totalitarian group
which represents some 18 million veterans
from 25 countries and is one of the four
largest non-governmental organisations
in the world.” Vanderbilt is president of
W.V.F. and is in these parts to discuss
with ex-servicemen’s associations the
scope for extending rehabilitation-work
for war veterans.
. • •
Back in Adelaide from a Unesco
assignment in Thailand as adviser on the
training of teachers. Dr. Hubert Harry
Penny, since 1948 principal of the
Adelaide Teachers’ Training College. He
was a teacher himself for nine years,
then lectured at the Training College,
and put in two years at London Uni-
versity doing research on education —
result of winning a Rhodes Overseas
Fellowship and an Education Depart-
ment Travelling Scholarship. This was
his second tour of duty in Thailand. He
went there first in 1954. The Siamese
liked his work so much that they asked
for another penn’orth last year.
• „ •
Apart from normal diplomatic routine
and trade matters, the main interest of
Dr. Raden H. Tirtawinata, Indonesian
Ambassador to Australia, is to encourage
the growth of cultural relations between
his country and the Commonwealth.
A troupe of Balinese dancers, with their
traditional orchestra of brass and per-
cussion instruments, will probably tour
Australia later this year —it has already
been well received in Europe and America
—and there will be a large contingent of
Indonesian athletes coming south for
the Olympic Games. Dr. Tirtawinata
studied law in Batavia under the Dutch
regime and was a district judge before
the Japanese invasion of Java. During
the revolutionary period he was Attorney-
General in the provisional Government,
and when the new republic established its
diplomatic service he became Ambassador
to Irak. After filling a similar post in
Pakistan, he was appointed to Canberra
last October. Likes what he’s seen of
Australia and Australians and is at pre-
sent engaged in seeing more of it and
them. V
* *
W. H. Dawbin, lecturer in zoology at
Victoria University College, Wellington
(N.Z.), has been tracking whales to their
lairs in the Pacific from the Equator to
the Antarctic, seeking information con-
cerning their habits, and as another line
has bred the sluggish tuatara, the ancient
reptile peculiar to New Zealand. Now
he crosses the Tasman to take up a
senior lectureship at Sydney University.
A native of Palmerston North, he
graduated at the college he is now leaving
as lecturer.
• •
Holidaying in Australia, Sir Robert
Perkins, founder and vice-president of
the British Airlines Pilots’ Association.
A Cambridge M.A., mechanical-engineer
and chairman of a newspaper-company in
Southampton, Perkins took up aviation
as a hobby and was a flying-instructor in
the R.A.F.V-R. in the war. He won the
Stroud seat in the House of Commons at
a by-election in 1931, and held it, with
one gap of five years, till his retirement at
the dissolution of Parliament last year.
For a time in 1945 he was Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Civil Avia-
tion. The Churchill Government’s defeat
and the lpss of his own seat put an end
to that, but on his return to the Commons
in 1950 he became a “needier” on matters
of aerial' efficiency.
• •
Cattle and horses have always been
the main interest in life of E. E. D.
White, and he’s generally considered to
know as much about ’em as any man in
Queensland. He gained much of his
experience on Bluff Downs (N.Q.); he
was there from early youth, and for many
years controlled and managed the pro-
perty. Long a member of the cattle-
committee of the United Graziers’ Asso-
STOCK-BREEDER
ciation, he was appointed to the Beef
Cattle Industry Commission in 1928.
Nowadays he runs a stud-property at
Toomba, in the Charters Towers dis-
trict, and also Woodlands stud at Cam-
booya, on the Darling Downs. Vice-
chairman of the Queensland Turf Club,
he has also bred many first-rate thorough-
breds.
Old soldiers and their sons and
daughters are Cec Lockhart’s special care.
His 26 years’ continuous service on the
N.S.W. Legacy boird include eight
years as hon. sec and one (1938-39) as
president. He’s also chairman of N.S.W.
Legacy Clubs and serves on the commit-
tees of the War Orphans’ Appeal and the
Archibald Home for Girls. The three
LEGACY
N.S.W. War Veterans’ Homes receive a
share of attention also —hon. treasurer
for 15 years. A veteran himself of
1914-18, he was commissioned in the field
and was in the thick of the Villers-Bret.
show with the 3rd Vickers M.G. Btn.
For variety, War II found him Flight-
Lieut. in 23 Sqn. A.T.C. Apart from
his charitable duties he somehow finds
time, as a director of Buckinghams, Ltd.,
to look after that group’s extensive credit-
arrangements. He knows Sydney retail-
ing from every angle. Now on his way to
England aboard the Dominion Monarch.
• •
Victoria’s most-thoroughly-c urs e d
public servant has retired from the Board
of Works. He’s J. C. Jessop, who be-
came chairman in 1940 just when
Melbourne began to burst its seams and
expand in all directions. Jessop had the
job of chasing the expansion with water-
pipes and, despite post-war shortages,
succeeded beyond expectations. The
expansion continued, and he ran short of
water, so he started building dams,
storages and pumping-stations all over the
place. Every summer there was a crisis
and some of the remoter suburbs went
thirsty. Jessop was roundly cursed by
some for slapping on restrictions and by
others for not slapping on enough, but
Melbourne blithely continued to expand
at a faster pace than ever, and he con-
tinued to be blamed for not keeping pace
with the expansion. He remained cool
and level-headed under this torrent of
vituperation, even that part of it which
came from the Eltham district, which
seemed to regard itself as the biggest
sufferer —Jessop happens to dwell in the
Eltham district. Curses notwithstanding,
he went out the other day in a blaze of
farewells and congratulations on having
managed so well the toughest job in
Melbourne,
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 67, Clarence Abraham Pyke,
an original Anzac (Ist A.L.H.), later a stafi-
officer in France, A.A.Q.M.G., 3rd Division,
under Monash and D.A.A.G. under Gellibrand.
In 1917, M.C. Back to the colors in War 11,
and afterwards chairman of the N. S. Wales
Disposals Board. Foundation-member and
past-president of Sydney Legacy.
In Perth, at 63, Samuel James Faithful, Old
Digger, pharmacist and chairman of the
Bassendean Road Board. He’d been president
of the Bassendean Bowling Club since 1949.
In London, at 57, Percy W. Jackson,
manager of the London branch of the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia. He linked-up with
the CommerciaL 30 years ago in Christchurch
(N.Z). and managed branches in Napier,
Masterton arid, Wellington before going to
London.
In Perth, at 79, S. G. Boyce, for many years
livestock manager for Dalgety’s in Westralia. A
brother-in-law of State Opposition Leader,
Ross McLarty.


TANTRUM TENNIS


ABORIGINALITIES
T AM a radio-announcer, and one of
my spots on the air is an agricultural-
session. Material compiled from various
sources is read on sight; which explains
the disconcerting moment when I men-
tioned “Bulls and cows in pregnancy ...”
Country listeners aren’t particular about
commas, but they know all about bulls.
—“Lesbo.”
* * * ♦
“Eegrek”: Those who complain about
today’s high freights to country districts
may find comfort in the cartage-rates of
the gold-rush period. A bill of charges
relating to 50 bricks delivered to Woods
Point (Vic.) in 1864 was as follows: “50
bricks and cement for laying same,
£2 2s. Carriage of same to Devil’s River,
£l5 11s. Carriage to Woods Point,
£9 11s. 6d. Total £26 4s. 6d.”
• * * *
“Swelpme”: Few people would know
what a muttonfish is, but fewer who
have rambled along the rocks on the
N.S.W. coast have never seen its shell.
It is the one that seems to have been
designed by Nature as a soap-holder—
shallow, flattish, with perforations as for
drainage, and about the size of a big
man’s hand. The occupant attaches
itself to rocks 'by suction —a very neces-
sary precaution, since its flesh is regarded
as highly edible by most marine creatures,
and its underside is open and vulnerable.
"Sometimes I think you weren't meant to he the Wife of a labover."
To grip on the shell and pull the mollusc
away from its anchor would be impos-
sible for even the strongest man —the
moment the creature is touched it exerts
all its powers of suction. A sharp blow,
however, can catch it by surprise with
suction-valves lax —possibly it draws in
some of its food in that manner.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: For the white-fronted chat
Cayley lists no fewer than 13 separate
names—indicative, perhaps, of the engag-
ing little fellow’s popularity. A quaint
bird, with a curious fluttering flight and
friendly disposition, this chat dwells
mostly in open areas that are sparsely
clothed with low bushes, frequently by
the sea. Fluttering round these low
bushes, the cock —a boldly marked bird,
with black and white most in evidence —
rather resembles a magnificent butterfly.
On occasions when I have surprised this
noticeable fellow at his nest he has
immediately changed-guard with his very
inconspicuous spouse, which might have
been sheer coincidence, but seemed signi-
ficant to me. Beside the white-fronted,
there are three other chats in Australia —
the crimson, orange and yellow, all
brightly-clad birds, on the male side, at
least.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: “S.” suggests that few
furred or feathered creatures lose their
lives in bushfires (B. 25/1/’56), but
surely he has forgotten the youngsters.
Not only are thousands of nestlings
incinerated every year, but frequently
breeding birds, striving in the selfless
manner of their kind to protect eggs or
babes, are overwhelmed in smoke and
flames! In some cases losses would
occur only among birds nesting on or
fairly near the ground, but many fires
are so fierce that even the lofty homes
of eagles are affected. Avians in general
display a suspicious attitude towards an
area that has been ravaged by a really
big blaze, even until well after the
damage has been repaired by Nature.
The reason for this may not be entirely
economic.
♦ * * *
“Baksac”: The first time I heard a
chap talking about a “Digger’s Speed-
well” I thought he was discussing a make
of bicycle, troops for the use of. Found
I was completely off the beam; it’s a
native shrub, a familiar-enough one, too,
with its long, narrow leaf and bright-
red flowers. Veronica perfoliata, its
Latin handle, doesn’t give any leads to
the origin of the other monicker, but this
odd name is at least one against those
who deplore the nomenclature of our
flora as being “utterly utilitarian” and
devoid of imagination.
* * * *
“Bass”: Hold it, “Bellfield” (B.
18 /1 / ’56)! There’s no fox in the kelpie
—he’s a dingo-border-collie cross. And
he’s not a hybrid. The fact that he’s
fertile proves that, and it’s accepted as
proof that the dingo and the domestic
dog belong to a common species. That’s
one of the tests of species-relationship.
If two members of the same genera can
interbreed, and the progeny are fertile,
then they belong to the same species.
The kelpie’s ability to breed has caused
a change in the scientific name for
Warrigal. Previously classed as Canis
“Lei’s trip him!"
dingo, he’s now generally accepted as
Canis familiaris dingo —the term “dingo”
having the same significance as “collie,”
or “English setter.” And he’s got this
advantage over domestic dogs—he’s a
truer breed than any of them!
* *
“Arthur R.”: In bush-country I came
upon a beer-bottle inside which, coiled-
up, was an 18in. snake. Although it was
winter, the reptile was active enough to
squeeze hurriedly from the bottle-neck
and wriggle off the moment my foot
touched its glass house. Possibly the
weak winter sun, shining through the
curved glass, had been intensified until
the interior was almost at summer
temperature.
* * # *
_ , ~ , „ _
Chink : The tale told by Quo
Vadis (B. 1/2/ 56) of a small bird of
the grass flying to a horseman for pro-
tection from a hawk is in line with the
basis of a book by Dorothy Cottrell,
The Singing Gold, in which a desperate
beautiful atom” fluttered into the shirt
of a drover when about to be grabbed by
a falcon. Such episodes are not really
surprising. What puzzles me is the
reverse attitude of some birds—the fear
displayed by certain species that have
never been troubled by humans. Banks
wondered at this kind of thing in 1770.
Many years later the naturalist John
Gilbert, when travelling with the first
Leichhardt expedition (1844-45), was
frequently astonished at finding various
birds to be “excessively wild.” He could
th tr^ h th hirdf t°h f at Pi were
accustomed, particularly when in flocks,
to the whirring of blackfellows’ boome-
rangs, bu, he cou,d not comprehend why
midgets were equally cautious. The
attitudes of birds to man, it would seem
are not based solely on experience, but
upon temperament as well.
* * * *
nTt, v u - a co i+
A.D.T. : Yes, birds Jo like salt.
When I was at Austral Downs, on the
Barkly (Q.), the rock-salt put out for
horses was often covered with waxbil -
finches getting in, literally, for their cut
—they’d actually burrow right into the
, #
“Kaymara”: My front lawn in a
Sydney suburb consists of paspalum,
docks and clovers, with here and there a
patch of couch-, buffalo- or kikuyu-grass.
It’s kept mowed-down, but, even so, by
day it looks, as may be imagined, far
from prepossessing. Still, there’s one time
when it always does look a beautiful
sward —by night. More than one visitor
who’s seen it only in the dark (and is
consequently in the dark as to its real
nature) has remarked on its verdant
quality. All of which supports, by
analogy, what the ancient Greek said—
“ When the candles are out all are fair”—
when thinking of a different type of land-
scape-decoration.
“Woorarra”: In important respects
bell-bird colonies differ from all other
avian associations known to me. The in-
habitants seem individualistic; prone
neither to communal nesting nor social
gatherings. There are no perceptible
leaders or laws. The area inhabited by
a colony is never very great —maybe a
mile or two in length by something less
in width, situated on ridge or mountain-
side, and covered with very tall, straight
gums. Yet, within this limited area
myriad generations of birds live out their
lives, rarely, unless creating a fresh
colony, crossing what can only be termed
an invisible line that closely contains
their community. Bell-birds are, of
course, honeyeaters, .and it may be that
their collective chiming, while fascinating
to humans, intimidates rivals for the
blossoms and disconcerts would-be pre-
dators—certainly this all-powerful com-
munal habit in an otherwise individualis-
tic bird is not entirely meaningless. How-
ever that,may be, we must try to ensure
that these unique creatures do not suffer
extinction; they are extremely vulner-
able under closer-settlement.
* * * *
NATURE is not very equitable in her
allocation of life-spans. Fido
rarely gets past 13, but Puss can make
20 to 25. The working-bee is lucky to
live six weeks; the fly averages five
months ; the snail, two-and-a-half years.
A mouse’s life-span is six years, and so
is an English squirrel’s; but I can
testify that at least one silver-grey
Australian possum will be 14 next
September.
Cockatoos are noted for their longevity
—the white veteran owned by a publican
at Tom Ugly’s Point (N.S.W.) was a
centurion when he uttered his last
screech, while a black one —the only
creature still living of all the animals
moved from Sydney’s Moore Park Zoo
to Taronga —is known to be more than
50.
An American golden-eagle lived to
be 104 ; but, weight for age, the ordinary
spag. doesn’t do so badly with 40.
The elephant is now debunked to a
mere 70; but the double-centuries of
tortoises and turtles seem to be beyond
dispute. The whale, according to one
authority, lives from 300 to 500 years;
the same source claims 80 years for a
goose and the incredible 150 for a swan.
A bunny is good— or bad —for w
years; and the French cave-explorer,
Norbert Caster et, found a bat healthy
and active though wearing a ring he had
placed on its leg 16 years before.
SWELPME.
LOVE AND I MADE HOLIDAY
Love and I made holiday
On a sunny summer day,
When the wattle-bloom was falling
And the russet gum-bark peeling,
While the currawongs were calling
And the noisy seagulls wheeling
Where the sunlit breakers play
All around the quiet bay.
When the early tide was making;
Urban fume and fret forsaking;
LoVe and I made holiday, \
Free from sorrow and distress,
All around the quiet bay;
And love taught me gentleness
When the summer day was breaking,
Magpie, kookaburra, waking.
When the summer day was dying,
Curlews in the tree-tops crying,
Love and I went down the way
Where the moonlight’s silver sheen
Like a delicate lacework lay,
Slender saplings in between;
Light across the inlet lying,
Surges to the sea-wind sighing.
All along the moonlit strand,
Stepping down the silver sand,
While the fragrant bush lay sleeping;
Ripples on the water gleaming;
Mopoke calling, mullet leaping,
All the world a mystery seeming
Love alone can understand;
Love and I went hand in hand.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


'T'HE speckled hen had gone broody on
the nest in the shed, so the missus
decided to put a setting of eggs under
her. This upset the fowl, which returned
to the henhouse. I decided to collar
her off the roost that evening and let
her settle down overnight vyith the eggs.
But, in this part, it’s hard not to get
trapped in a school at the pub after work.
That’s how the black chook nearest the
door, till then uninterested in mother-
hood, happened to get planted on the
eggs in the dark, went broody overnight,
and brought out a full batch of chickens.
—“Plug.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: A planned excavation of
a moa-hunters’ camp at the mouth of the
Tahakopa River, Southland (N.Z.), by a
body of scientists, including an Oklahoma
(U.S.A.) professor of anthropology, is
aimed at gaining some knowledge of the
first inhabitants of New Zealand and of
when the giant moa ceased its ramblings.
Some believe that moa-hunters of an
early Polynesian breed occupied the camp
before the arrival of the Maoris ; the
date is fixed at between the 12th and 15th
centuries.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: During the record heat-
wave at Pingelly (W.A.) two oppressed
citizens went outside the house at 4 a.m.
in search of coolness and comfort. They
saw a utility pull-up, and two men dis-
mount and unload a ladder, place it
against a house and then climb on to the
roof. The first early birds summoned a
policeman, who wanted to know the
score. It was explained that the ladder-
climbers were a pair of respectable house-
painters, who’d decided to get on with
the job of giving the roof a fresh coat
before increasing heat made house-tops
untenable.
* * * *
“Montrose”: Weekending in one of
of Melbourne’s old suburbs, where big
trees accommodate thousands of birds,
I was given ample reason for hoping the
peace of the Dandenongs would never be
violated by the love-calls, repeated ad
nauseam, of the city’s oversexed doves.
But that hope was born dead if the
single call I heard this morning—time-
and tone-perfect except for its clipped
ending—is not that of a lonely bronze-
wing-pigeon far from its habitat.
Haven’t seen one near my home for
years. Perhaps some birdman can allay
my panic.
• * * *
“L.F.”: The English used in some
regional (Queensland) broadcasts for the
man-on-the-land often leaves a lot to be
desired. This morning the announcer
proceeded to tell us of a river that was
“generally always full of water,” which
made irrigation “perfectly possible,”
* * * *
“Harbel”: Recently saw the battery-
system of keeping fowls —and was
horrified; it struck me as cruelty carried
to the limit. A battery consists of
attached wire-cages each about 2ft.
square. In each of the tiny cages a hen
is imprisoned for the whole of her laying-
life (which is about a year, poultry-
farmers consider second-year birds
unprofitable), There are no perches, and
the bird’s feet never know anything more
comfortable than the chain-wire mesh-
floor. She even lays on the mesh, and
the only exercise she can get is in turn-
ing around—which there is just room for
her to do. She gets her food by ppking
her head through the wire to the trough
outside, and drinks by pushing her beak
against a drip from an overhead nipple,
thereby causing the water to drip down
her throat. I thought of the loving care
my Dad used to bestow on his chooks,
and said as much to the poultryfarmer.
“Yes,” he said good-humoredly; “and
what does that gurgling sound made by
a hen mean? She’s contented, eh? And
what is the first thing a hen does when
she’s sick or miserable? Stop laying, isn’t
it? I’ll guarantee those hens are laying
twice as many eggs in a year as your
Dad’s did.” I always did maintain that
chooks had no sense.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Nearest neighbor, Mac,
usually a man of peaceful intent, called
in, very excited. “It’s a big buck kanga-
roo in the back paddock,” he explained.
'‘He’s been sticking up on me lately. I
went to get past him this morning, and
he kept edging along with me, about
twelve-feet away. Nearly scared the tripe
out of me.” “Why didn’t you pick up a
stick?” I asked. “That’s just it, I did,”
said Mac. “But the Too picked one up,
too —a bigger one. Lend us the gun.”
* * * «
“Phil Anthus”: It is true enough, as
“Woorarra” proclaims (B. 1/2/’56), that
whipbirds are most at home in thick
scrub, but that dictum shouldn’t be taken
too literally. Being enterprising fellows,
the “whips” have adapted themselves in
many areas to vegetation of an open
nature. Only recently I saw one calling
lustily while clinging to a sapling in an
open, sunlit spot near Sydney. Another
idea about this distinctive feathered Aus-
tralian that needs correcting is the impres-
sion that his vocabulary is limited to the
whiplike crack and its following note.
That remarkable vocal explosion is, of
course, the bird’s “signature-tune,” but in
addition he frequently sings individually
and in chorus, and, moreover, he indulges
at times (as do so many Australian birds)
in mimicry of the voices of his neighbors.
Charles Hartshorne, an American pro-
“We saw it first!”
fessor who devoted considerable atten-
tion to Australian bird-voices a few years
ago, has written the opinion that the
whipbird is, with the grey thrush, the
most underestimated bird-songster of
Australia. “It is not primarily he says,
“a master of explosive notes, but of
leisurely, sustained, powerful, exquisitely-
musical, and flawlessly-timed flute- and
piccolo-notes, set in artistic contrast to
explosive punctuation.”
* * * *
“Half-Dirty”: “Y’re a bit particular,
ain’t y’?” one of the rabbiting-gang told
the buyer, who carefully examined each
carcass. Old Jack, the buyer, gave the
questioner a baleful look and replied
sadly, “Y* gotta look at ’em closely. Y’
got no idea what I get put over me.” He
reached under the table and held up a
reject bunny. “Look at this one, f’r
instance. Looks orright, don’t it?” You
could nearly see the tears in his eyes.
“Look, that’s what I paid out good dough
for!” He opened-out the fur around the
bunny’s waist. The reject had been
halved when being cleaned by a too-
anxious knife, and, to save the loss, had
been re-united with a couple of safety-
pins.
THE NEPTUNE ISLANDS
I once talked with a man
who knew the Neptunes well.
Once a month
(or is it once in three?)
a steamer calls with stores,
and wailing seabirds cry cry cry
around and around her masthead.
And in between
there is the sea the sea the sea
breaking its chastity unceasingly
against these anchored and isolated
fragments of continent.
When there is a storm
each wave boils and rushes, rushes and boils
up narrow clefts in the dark rocks;
men and goats draw back to shelter,
and in the great noise
there is a great silence,
for the wind-pressed seabirds
huddle voiceless against the cliffs.
And always the white finger of the lighthouse
points baldly upwards,
denying the existence of the sky.
. . . And lonely lonely lonely
are the hearts of men;
the waves the waves the waves
break, forever break,
against the stone in our breasts.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
THE SPRING
'T'O reach the New England (N.S.W.)
tableland from the coastal plain
through the Macleay Valley, in the time
before the whites came, meant traversing
a terrible country of spurs, ranges,
rivers and gorges, ascending mountains
and precipices, finding a practicable
track through a jumble of cliffs and
rocks.
It is not country that one would want
to cross on foot if there were no road
cut out of the mountainsides, as there is
today. But the blacks had their
ceremonial- and their seasonal-rites;
they had to meet, at times, with their
neighbors, exchange news, hold cor-
roborees and ensure the proper succes-
sion of seasons, generations and food.
Accordingly, the blacks of the Macleay
River, which issues from the spurs and
gorges of the rough country in a narrow
valley which takes long to widen, made
their occasional pilgrimages to visit their
neighbors several thousand feet up on the
tableland above. They knew their path
from Dreamtime ancestry, through that
forbidding tumble of spurs.
Up the Macleay they travelled, to its
junction with the waters of George’s
Creek; then along the narrower creek-
valley until it wound away steeply into
impassable country. Then the track
ascended a long triple-headed spur, travel-
ling first above the George’s Creek
Valley, then crossing to the other side
of the spur between two peaks and
traversing deep rain-forest, where the
cedars towered up .and the bellbirds and
coachwhip-birds called, and recrossing to
the long pull up the precipitous slopes
above the creek-valley, to issue on the
tableland at last near what is now called
the Styx River.
It must have been a long, weary climb
for the stragglers and weaklings of the
tribe —mile after mile of strenuous
upward struggle through thick tangles of
v forest and vine-scrub. For most of the
way, from the creek-bed upwards, there
is little or no water except after rain.
But almost at the end of the journey,
on the steepest part of the climb, where
the track overhangs the wild, thickly-
timbered gorge far below, comes suddenly
bubbling from the steep rock (they must
have been glad to hear its voice) the
clearest and coldest of little springs.
Even in dry, hot summers, when the
heat rising from the locked-in gorge
below makes the rocks too hot to handle,
the spring is cold, and its ferns and
mosses glitter with drops of moisture.
You can see the eyes of a frog or two
peering out of crannies of moss —the
little black frogs, with white-rimmed eyes,
that sing on a high pitch, like crickets.
They sound as liquid and cold as the
spring itself, dripping from the rock into
its tiny pool.
This could never have been a camping-
place, for the mountainside is so steep
hep that the tribe must have strung-out
in 'line-ahead, walking gingerly for fear
of the depths below; but after the long,
dry climb each of them must have
stopped to drink the cold, exhilarating
water —water quite unlike that of the
slower, more earth-acquainted rivers and
creeks of the coastal plain.
They must have had a name for the
spring; it must surely have had its place
in their mythology. Probably the name
would have been a word that sounded
like the spring itself as it gurgles into the
pool and on down the mountainside, and
like the voices of the frogs and the birds
that come to drink there. Now it has
no name.
When the whites came to the coast and
began to search for a way up into the
jumble of mountains behind the coastal
plain, the tribe showed them their secret
and gruelling track. Later, when a road
was to be made, the whites remembered.
The road was cut, with great labor, along
the old ritual route from coast to table-
lands ; and now the water in its course
dives under the road. Few people who
travel that way know of the spring’s
presence, though it rises now in the rock-
cutting itself.
For a while it retained some of its old
meaning. It was the last drinking-place
for horses on the downward journey, as
far as the creek-bed below, and the first
drinking-place on the way up, so that in
the days of horse-travel it was known to
all wayfarers. Then cars began to labor
up and down the steep grades, and at
first were greedy of water, too ; so that
the spring was still a regular halting-
place, especially after the upward climb.
In my childhood we often stopped at the
spring, the car so overheated by the climb
that unscrewing the big brass radiator-
cap was a dangerous job followed by a
scalding burst of steam.
Now its usefulness is almost over, and
the cars that pass it seldom stop. The
days when the local teamsters kept a
copper cup hung there on a spike, for
their own use and the use of travellers,
are long past. The spi'ing’s meaning has
gone as irrevocably as the tribe that
once gave away its secret hiding-place.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Cap* toff
QUEENSLAND
*
*
*
v'
NEW SOUTH WALES
£
VICTORIA V *■
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
Portland**^ 1
THE
U NIO N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; The Hon. Sir Henry
Manning, K.8.E., Q.C.. M.L.C.; Bertram J. F. Wright, M.B.E.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT 23
Business. Rollery,etc.
NEARER AND SHARPER
AUSTRALIA’S economic
problems, like those in
Britain, are taking sharper
shape each day. But the shape
is still somewhat indistinct in
the eyes of the more shortsighted
among the general public and
investors on the Stock Exchange.
And remedies proposed are con-
flicting. Remedies always are in
times of economic difficulty,
when self-interest and distrust of
the other fellow tend to cloud
clear thinking.
But the Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, in his speech
at the opening of the new
Federal Parliament, put the
position pithily when he said:
“Either our resources must be
materially increased —and this
means a far more urgent under-
standing of the importance of
increased production than is now
visible —or demands must be
reduced by fiscal and other
measures.”
Earlier, in his address to the
nation on Australia Day, Sir
William had said that good
profits went with good manage-
ment, and high wages with high
output. All had to realise that
there was a direct relation
between the standard of living
and the standard of working.
Last Wednesday the Gover-
nor-General said that we had
been drawing on our reserves,
and it didn’t need an economist
to tell us that such a process
cannot go on for long.
That last phrasing is import-
ant. It shouldn’t have needed an
economist to have told anyone
12 months ago that the present
situation would arise. But
warnings were rare at that stage.
Even now, it seems, many people
need reminding of the simple
facts of economic life.
Economic Cannibalism
The Bulletin has for several
years emphasised that we have
not been producing enough, not
saving enough. Too many non-
producers and inadequate pro-
ducers were living on the real
producers—“a kind of economic
cannibalism.” In January, 1953,
it was said here: “Some crush-
ing economic facts will have to
be faced by the people of Aus-
tralia and its Governments, State
and Federal, before very long.
These facts will determine
whether free enterprise is to exist
even in a modified form, or
whether it is to fall, bankrupt,
into the hands of the Socialists
as liquidators.” The article
concluded: “We are in need of
greatly increased production,
and of that production much
larger proportion must be
encouraged to flow into repro-
ductive channels. Thrift must
be given top priority. If we are
to depend on capitalists for the
funds required by industry and
for essential Government works,
then capitalism will require
some intelligent dieting and nurs-
ing during the next few years.
And no Socialist Government is
capable of doing that.”
Not long afterwards the
Menzies - Fadden Government
did give some encouragement to
production and thrift. Taxa-
tion was reduced all round, and
the penalty-tax on investment
incomes was removed. But the
taxation structure still has a
political and bureaucratic bias
rather than an economic one,
and it urgently requires to be
overhauled, especially in the
light of the need to encourage
production effort, saving and
investment, and to prevent
capital-erosion which is a
national danger, as anyone
should be able to see.
Savings Assaulted
Savings have been violently
assaulted since 1939. Interest-
rates have been kept at a low
level for most of the period (so
that the higher rates on hire-
purchase debentures have
attracted investors like flies to a
honey-pot), and there has been
a gross wastage of the substance
of savings through inflation.
When interest-rates on Common-
wealth bonds have edged up, the
wastage of savings has been
more marked because of the
consequent fall of security prices
on the bond-market. And
though there are always excep-
tions to the general run of
things, it will be found on care-
ful analysis that company-profits
have been low in Australia when
the depreciation of money is
taken into account.
It is widely realised now that
companies are no longer able
to replace plant out of deprecia-
tion-provisions and reserved
profits in the pre-war manner.
Replacement-costs have risen at
a greater rate than profit-earn-
ing. True, there is a greater de-
mand for new plant and equip-
ment than there was in 1939,
largely because of increased con-
sumer-demand arising out of
growing population and full
employment, but obsolescence is
also a factor in the need for
new production-facilities.
The burden of social-security,
too, is falling heavily on a
country which, according to
figures which don’t appear to
lie, is not even producing enough
to provide for current require-
ments, let alone set aside suffi-
cient to look after the aged and
infirm.
It may be said that it is im-
possible for this country to de-
velop in proportion to its grow-
ing population without heavy
borrowing overseas ; that, at its
maximum, our output of
essential goods will be too small
to provide the necessary capital-
goods surplus. That may be
so, but both overseas and Aus-
tralian investors will need to see
a great deal more productivity in
this country before they start
lending money on an enthusiastic
scale.
As it is in Australia at pre-
sent, there is little or no surplus
production above consumer-
demand to represent real savings.
There is not enough production,
not enough efficiency (in some
industries, especially transport),
not enough savings, not enough
real profit, and, consequently,
not enough investment.
The Economic Eight
The eight economists who
early this month recommended
increasing taxation in order to
drain-off excessive purchasing-
power and help pay for develop-
ment, and lifting interest-rates
in order to allow monetary
policy to become effective, now
emphasise that their remedy was
offered for a short-term emerg-
ency.
Nowhere in their first analysis
of the situation did they mention
productivity. One at least of
their number now points out
that productivity could not be
increased overnight, and was
therefore not to be relied on as
a solution for a short-term
emergency.
But there seems to be no
denying that there will be no
solution to our long-term, overall
problem until productivity is
increased, with the accompani-
ment of a fall in production-
costs.
In this regard it is worth
while again to turn to what the
Governor-General said in his
speech last week, when he men-
tioned the great confusion in the
industrial field because of the
conflict between the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court, the
State industrial tribunals and,
in some cases, direct industrial
“I'm wondering about 607's sudden interest in
gardening
legislation by State Parliaments,
The Government was carefully
studying ways of increasing pro-
duction and lowering costs, while
at the same time producing
stability and justice in the
industrial field.
Infm-ARt-rafM
TT _ . .
npHE raising of the British
bank-rate to 5£ p.c. (up 1
p.c.) on February 16, bringing
it to the highest level since
September 21, 1931, when it was
6 p.c., makes it seem all the
more likely that we shall see
dearer money in this part of the
world before very long.
At the beginning of this
month the New Zealand Gov-
ernment removed the 5 p.c. ceil-
ing on bank-overdraft rates (B.
15/2/’56), and gave the banks
more discretion in their over-
draft charges. The banks them-
selves already pay 7 p.c. on
moneys borrowed from the
Reserve Bank in order to main-
tain their statutory reserves.
The eight economists who
prescribed higher taxes and
higher interest-rates as pre-
liminary treatment for Aus-
tralia’s economic problems have
been generally supported in the
matter of higher interest-rates,
Clearly, the fixed rates of interest
on Government bonds and fixed-
deposits are not in accord with
the open-market rate; nor, for
that matter, is the 5 p.c. over-
draft rate.
This month the maximum
Australian rate for local-govem-
ment borrowing was raised by
2s. 6d. per cent., to £4 17s. 6d.
per cent. This compares with
£4 10s. per cent, for the long-
term bond-rate.
>he Loan Council should be
seeking money for States works
programmes within the next
month or so. It will be interest-
ing to see what the terms of the
loan will be, and, if there is any
alteration in the rate, what
effect (in conjunction with other
factors) it will have on the share-
m ar k e t
Minster Acquisition
MORE than 93 p.c. of the
shareholders in Sydney
Cotton Mills, Ltd., having
accepted the offer of Minster,
Ltd. (B. 15/2/’56), the offer now
becomes unconditional.
The offer was one Minster
10s. share for each Sydney
Cotton £1 share.
Stock Deficiency
A NOTHER Sydney concern—
Proofwood, Ltd. reports
“a considerable stock-defici-
ency,” reckoned to be in the
vicinity of £50,000. (At June
30 stocks were in the books at
£90,175.)
The directors of Proofwood,
which makes and distributes
plywood, have appointed inves-
tigators into the co.’s affairs,
and the examination will extend
into the accounts of past years.
In its 11 years of life Proof-
wood has not paid a dividend,
and had accumulated debits and
intangibles of 2s. 2d. per £1 share
last balance-day. Paid capital
is £130,000, in ord. shares.
The experience of Proof-
wood and others should bring
home to investors the import-
ance of stock-valuations in
company accounts. Stock-valua-
tion has a direct bearing on
profit figures.
In the refrigerator and
domestic-appliance field at the
moment it would be compara-
tively easy for stocks to be
valued correctly on accost basis,
and possibly on a recognised
trade price, but to be overvalued
in the event of forced sale of
stocks.
Auditors and Stocks
are the liabilities of an
auditor in respect of stock-
valuation?
In the Kingston Cotton Mill
case (England) it was held by
Lord Justice Lindley as long ago
as 1896 that it is not the duty
of an auditor to take stock, and
that he is not guilty of negli-
gence if he accepts the certificate
of a responsible official in the
absence of suspicious circum-
stances.
Lord Justice Lopes in the same
case said: “An auditor is not
bound to be a detective, or to
approach his work with suspicion
or with the foregone conclusion
that there is something wrong.
He is a watchdog, but not a
bloodhound. He is justified in
believing tried servants of the
company in whom confidence is
placed by the company—lf
there is anything calculated to
excite suspicion he should probe
it to the bottom, but in the
absence of anything of that kino
he is only bound to be reason-
ably cautious and careful.”
In the case of the Irish
Woollen Co., Ltd. (1900), an
auditor was held liable for
damage sustained by the co.
resulting from the suppression ot
invoices outstanding at balance-
day, thus reducing the amount ot
purchases and the amount of
creditors, but the goods were
taken into stock and a fictitious
profit shown to this extent.


£4'l7'6fo
For 5 Years!
THE NEWCASTLE
WATER BOARD LOAN
Offers You this higher rate
Guaranteed hy The N.S.W. Government r
Start your savings earning bigger interest today! You can invest for either
5 or 10 years with complete confidence. Half-yearly interest payments
and full repayment of principal at maturity are unconditionally guaranteed
by the State Government. You can also invest Trust Funds —the Loan is
an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia
and Tasmania.
Subscriptions, interest, and repayment of principal are free of exchange in
terms of the Prospectus.
MAKE CERTAIN OF YOUR £4/17/6%
BEFORE 28TH FEBRUARY!
Invest today at any Commonwealth Trading Bank, through a Stockbroker,
or at The Hunter District Water Board’s offices at Newcastle, Maitland
and Cessnock. A 10% deposit is all you need pay today.
Loan underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
' KWLB-56
Fuith mi
Future
\
In
i
My visit to New York would have been
worthwhile if it had yielded nothing more in fresh,
exciting experience than a call at the permanent
headquarters of the United Nations.
Since I was in New York before, the great
edifice of steel and glass has risen in Manhattan,
close to the East River. Its very substance and its
height, its foundations and its frame, are symbolic
of the lofty work the United Nations Organisation
is doing in the human cause.
As I looked upon the building I thought—
Here is the forum of the world, the senate
and the stage of leaders in national thought, the
place where colour and creed have blended in
common assembly for the first time in mankind’s
history.
Here is the means of mediation in differences,
the parent of agencies formed to lift up backward
peoples through a programme of social and
economic improvement.
From these halls organisations treat, in a
field as wide as the world itself, such problems as
food, health, education, the care of children,
international justice, the work of Human Rights.
In this secretariat is a store of information
such as men have never before attempted to gather.
And it is being brought together now in renewal of
the belief that all men can help one another.
Those were the positive, the inspiring thoughts
that came to me as I gazed upon the United Nations
building in New York.
I realise that, being a human instrument,
U.N.O. is subject to human frailties, and sometimes
its work may not have the perfect result. It would
be too much to expect that it would.
But I do say—and I think you will agree—
that there has never before been so tangible a sign
that men are determined to outlaw wars and the
causes of wars, and to live together in freedom.
U.N.0., to me, is the world’s great Act of
Faith in the Future.
//'$ZS'/Uvf 9
7
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE bicentenary of Mozart’s
birth passed uneventfully,
without fuss, without disturbing
the headlines and without any
great impact upon the wider
public.
That is not to say that this
event left the musical world
untouched. The reverse, in fact.
A new Covent Garden produc-
tion of “The Magic Flute” had
six months’ rehearsal (a record),
with an Australian Pamina,
Elsie Morison, in daily session
with her conductor, Rafael
Kubelik (the appearance of a
Maori, Inia te Wiata, as the
Orator also makes history).
There was a gala performance,
attended by Royalty, on the
actual birthday.
The municipally - controlled
Royal Festival Hall, in associa-
tion with the Arts Council,
gave six concerts during the
week in which each of the six
principal London orchestras
presented a Mozart programme
under its own, or a guest, con-
ductor. And an impresario who
specialises in bringing companies
from abroad has announced
that he is introducing the
Salzburg production of “La
Finta Semplice” to London in
March.
There can be no finer tribute
to the immortality of Mozart’s
divine legacy than the realisation
that the concert repertoire can
sustain such a concentration
without the slightest deteriora-
tion in quality, in spite of the
fact that all the works per-
formed were not of that
tragically-short life’s most
mature period. Two were com-
posed while he was in his
’teens and one before. The last
three symphonies and the
Requiem were obvious choices,
but it was true homage to
include, under the baton of a
famous living composer and
conductor, the serenade for
wind instruments, even to basset
horns.
Londfon and Music
We are apt to forget that the
visit of the eight-year-old
Wolfgang to London had con-
siderable effect upon his develop-
ment and style. If the influences
(J. C. Bach and K. F. Abel) were
Saxon rather than Anglo-
Saxon, it is at least comforting
to know that Mozart always
thought kindly of London
(which he certainly didn’t of
other cities, notably Paris and
Salzburg) and that he was keen
to settle there in his later years
but could not persuade his
father to take the children. If
he had managed the second visit,
might not his final troubles have
been less, his life longer and his
legacy greater?
London, for all its former
poor reputation for being tone-
deaf, holds some proud records.
The best is an unbroken run of
public concerts for nearly 300
years. These began in 1672 in
Whitefriars and were held daily
at 4 p.m. at an entrance-charge
of a shilling. And in 1678 a
charcoal-seller named Britton
converted the loft over his coal-
house in Clerkenwell into a
music-room, where concerts
were held weekly for 36 years,
Handel himself performing on
the organ.
As is well known, Haydn’s
visit inspired ‘The Creation”
and his best symphonies ; again
it was a foreign-born impresario,
Salomon, who persuaded him to
come.
The Philharmonic
But the Royal Philharmonic
Society, which has a splendid
record of continuous concert-
promoting since 1813, was
solidly English in conception.
Well managed, it made £l3OO in
the first two seasons.
This society cherishes a direct
association with Beethoven,
having sent him £lOO in
response to a begging letter
when he was impoverished and
failing. The directors evinced
considerable tolerance, since
Beethoven’s previous dealings
with them were not quite above
board. Four years earlier, in
1822, he had accepted £5O for
the inclusive rights, limited to
18 months, of a symphony. This
arrived after the stipulated time,
bearing the handwritten dedica-
tion : “Geschrieben fur die
Philharmonische Gesellschaft in
London.” In the meantime, the
score had been published in
Vienna with a printed dedica-
tion to the King of Prussia. It
was the Choral Symphony.
The society had bought three
overtures from Beethoven in
1815 and, two years later,
offered him 300gns. for two
new symphonies and a personal
appearance. He demanded 400,
with 150 in advance, and the
negotiations fell through.
Even the £lOO deathbed-gift
occasioned some wrangling.
For banknotes £lOOO in value
were discovered in an old chest
(it is not known whether they
were a secret hoard or merely
forgotten) and the executor
would not return the gift unless
the society pressed its claim. It
did not, deciding to leave the
“small patrimony” as a dona-
tion towards a monument.
The society’s generosity was
honored, 40 years later, by the
presentation of a bust of
Beethoven, which is displayed
at its concerts.
Performance
Christopher West’s production
of “The Magic Flute” is
immensely serious. He plays
down the comedy and evokes a
tranquil dignity, even to
sublimation. The result is that
Sarastro (sung and spoken with
beautiful serenity by Keith
Engen) is the dominant figure.
Kubelik’s conducting is
thoroughly Mozartian, but un-
fortunately the nuances and the
chording are insufficient in
amplitude for such a large
theatre. The glockenspiel effect,
with two keyed-instruments
doubling in octaves is uncannily
t mag ! cal Mons ™ ! s
handicapped by a difficult
make-up and not very comfort-
able in her acting, but the long
application to the performance
of the music is evidenced by her
singing, which is effortless,
limpid and affectionately
nurtured. So are the ensembles,
It doesn’t matter very much
whether a foolish fairy-tale and
pseudo-Masonic rites are, or are
not, capable of reconciliation,
When, as here, so much devo-
tion has been applied to the
music, poor dramatic values and
inadequacies of acting are of
1 i 111 e consequence. Even so,
the grouping over the entire
stage and some really imagina-
tive lighting give depth and
grandeur to the production.
The absence abroad of the
greatest Mozartian of our time,
Sir Thomas Beecham, was un-
fortunate. His aesthetic sense
and penetrative insight can
transform a faint glow of light
into a beam of transcendental
radiance. And his devotion to
Mozart over 50 years is largely
responsible for the exalted status
his works now enjoy,
The choice of a musician so
demonstrably unclassical as
Paul Hindemith to conduct the
Philharmonic Society s concert
seemed a very strange one.
Certainly, his interpretation has
won scant praise from the critics,
But one Mozartian, who went
to honor as well as to listen,
would not have been surprised
had he learned that Dr.
Hindemith had been deceiving
the world with his atonality and
strange noises, all the time
nourishing a guilty addiction to
the classical period,
The Wind Serenade was the
success of the evening, being
performed with style, wit, grace
and extremely delicate balance.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
a
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.**
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: iV. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officers
M. A. Foulcher
Feruiaaeat Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT. 100.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
■EVIDENCE of the board’s confidence
in the long-term market prospects
for the undertaking is expressed in a
large programme of factory and ware-
house expansion, etc., now well under
way. This and other things add to the
attractiveness of the co.’s ord., or equity,
shares —which parade with the leaders in
the industrial section of the market —as
a holding proposition.
With things as they are maintenance
of the 10 p.c. should remain a com-
fortable matter. And, provided no more
than the normal range of problems and
difficulties inseparable from the work in
hand are met with, sales and financial
performances can be expected to improve
as new units of capital-equipment come
into use. Certainly competition can be
expected to sharpen, and profit-margins
to become a little finer, on a market
which will be presently fully-supplied
with locally-made cigarettes and tobacco.
However, there is already evidence —to
wit, last term’s increased net earnings—
that the B.T. group is well able to look
after itself in this respect. It consists of
parent holding co. and five main operating
subsidiaries, which together enjoy a com-
manding position in the Australian
tobacco trade.
Central feature of the development
programme is erection of a large new
cigarette- and tobacco-manufacturing
factory, together with two big leaf-stores,
at Virginia Park, East Bentleigh, near
Melbourne, The leaf-stores are already
in use, and the factory, claimed to rank
with the best of its kind in the world, is
scheduled for completion in May next.
From the employees’ point of view it
will, the chairman says, provide good
working conditions with air-condition-
ing, fatigue - reducing floor - surfaces,
cheerful coloring features, and a car-park
to accommodate 300 vehicles —such is the
trend of things in industry today. Other
items in the programme are erection of a
new office and warehouse at Adelaide,
and a new sales-branch at Hobart, to be
followed by an additional leaf-store at
Sydney and a sales-depot at Townsville.
Last term there was a substantial
increase in the co.’s output and sales, the
growth being most marked in cigarettes,
due partly to expanding population and
partly to a transfer of smoking habits
from tobacco to cigarettes. Though pro-
duction targets were exceeded, output
was still below the level of demand.
Chief factor limiting production has been
import-restrictions, and their effect upon
purchases of leaf from the U.S. and of
new machinery from abroad.
However, the benefits of bigger turn-
over and increased operational efficiency
more than offset the effects of rising
costs, which were most pronounced in
connection with high-priced Australian
leaf, of which p.c. has to be used in
locally-made cigarettes and 17£ p.c. in cut
tobacco. The co.’s own selling-prices
remained unchanged. So, after eliminat-
ing outside shareholders’ interests, set-
ting aside £346,113 (up £46,929) for de-
preciation, an unstated amount for
taxation and other contingencies, and
adding £530,100 (up £89,650) to various
revenue reserves, the board wrote com-
bined net earnings £7038 better at
£1,476,159. Including the additions to
revenue reserves, the year’s profit was
£96,688 stronger at £2,006,259:
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 6j p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
£ £, £ £
1951.. 1,065,399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2,844,612
From inner reserves, £1,694,015 ..4,538,627
From depreciation provision, £933,240 5,471,867
1952.. 1,000,444 111,188 Bip.c. = 883,640 5,477,483
From tax provision, etc., £454,727.- 5,932,210
1953. . 1,078,687 111,188 9 p.c. =s 963,970 5,935,739
Share premiums, £669,424 .. ..6,605,163
1954. .1,909,671 111,188 10 p.c. =1,338,848 7,064,698
1955.. 2.006.259.111,188 10 „ „1,558,848 7,620,921
* After deducting outsiders’ interests, t Subject to
intangibles (now £3,995,615).
The £2,006,259, which is not likely to be
an overstatement, was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 14.1 p.c. on the
£13,388,480 of ord. and B share-capital,
compared with 13.4, 9.9, 8.3, 8.9 and
6.5 p.c. back to 1950. The div. was
maintained at 10 p.c.—highest rate paid
since 1940 —and might remain there until
the construction programme is out of
the way.
To provide more working capital,
especially in connection with stocks, and
so lighten calls upon the bank, the co.
shortly before the close of accounts
issued privately £4,000,000 of 6 p.c.
registered Unsecured notes. They are
redeemable at the co.’s option on six
months’ notice at £lOl p.c. between
October 31, 1960-61, at £lOO 10s. p.c.
between October 31, 1961-62, or at par
on maturity, October 31, 1962. When
the books closed £2,385,650 of the money
had been received, leaving £1,614,350 to
come:
Consolidated Figures.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £12,443,638 £15,099,064 £16,099,064
Reserves .. 5,935,739 7,064,698 7,620,921
Outside interests 80,150 79,550 78,675
Notes .... 2,385,650
Creditors, etc.f 9,653,767 9,976,060 11,741,101
Final divs. .. 107,108 267,770 267,770
£28,220,402 £32,487,142 £37,193,181
Freeholds* .. 712,426 671,752 801,694
Plant, etc.* .. 1,249,418 1,430,583 1,781,021
Shares other cos. 101 101 12,101
Stocks .. 19,908,583 , 23,810,407 27,642,612
Debtors .. 2,133,369 2,333,264 2,725,778
Cash, etc. .. 221,081 245,510 234,360
Goodwill, etc... 3,995,424 3,995,525 3,995,615
£28,220,402 £32,487,142 £37,193,181
f Includes overdraft and tax provision, etc.
* Cost, less depreciation.
Thus, together with surplus earnings and
an extra £1,765,041 from sundry
creditors, etc., the co. was able to carry
£3,832,205 more stocks, and added
£392,514 to book-debts, £350,438 to plant
and £129,942 to freeholds.
At 345. 3d. (355. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the B shares
at 325. 9d. return 6.1 p.c. The prefs. at
21s. 6d. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £lO 19s. prefs. and 255. sd.
ord. and B latter rank equally
with the ords. for divs. but are deferred
as to capital.
United Provisions, Ltd.
AS a yield-sweetener in a mixed port-
folio, the f.-p. £1 ord. shares in this
big ham- and bacon-curing, canned foods-
and smallgoods-manufacturing and ex-
porting organisation merit consideration.
At 17s. 6d. (11s. 9d. a year ago) they
return 9.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis;
4 p.c. was paid in the previous year. The
8 p.c. prefs. at 235. 3d. yield 6.9 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £3 17s. 9d.
prefs. and 275. 4d. ords.
The present holding co. amalgamated
the interests of Foggitt Jones and J. C.
Hutton in 1927; another offshoot, J. C.
Hutton (N.Z.), Ltd., trades in the
Dominion, and a fourth subsidiary,
Vulcan Can Pty., provides the group with
containers, thus making the organisa-
tion self-contained in that respect. In
addition to its trade throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand in hams, bacon
and general provisions, the two big
operating cos. also export canned-meats,
butter,. cheese, hams, bacon and frozen
meat to all parts of the world.
Until last term results have been erratic
and disappointing, due partly to condi-
tions in the export trade where seasonal
influences and other factors cause severe
fluctuations in demand and prices from
time to time, and partly to weaknesses in
the internal organisation, as well as the
high price (in scrip) originally paid by
the holding co. for shares in the two
main operating concerns. For those on
the ord.-register five out of the 11 years
to 1938 were dry ones, average distribu-
tion for the period being 2.7 p.c. For
the 17 years to the close of last accounts
the average was 5.2 p.c., lowest p.c.
in 1940 and highest 8 p.c. in 1945, 1946
and 1955.
During the last five years, however, the
board has steadily pursued a plan of
reorganisation designed to strengthen
earning-power of the undertaking by
improved team-work, elimination of
duplicated activities, sale of redundant
assets, acquisition of new premises and
modernisation of plant and equipment.
Since 1950 £1,016,489 net has been added
to the aggregate book-value of freeholds
and plant (up £409,509), stocks (up
£306,252) and book-debts (£77,069). Over
the same period net growth in the outside
debts—bank (down £10,109) and sundry
creditors (up £218,235) —was only
£208,126. The balance came mainly
from profit on sale of assets (£258,824)
and surplus earnings, etc., including
reduction of the excess of cost over par-
value of iriter-co. shareholdings.
This policy, still in progress, together
with a marked increase in demand for the
co.’s products and steadier prices, both
buying and selling, was largely responsible
for the extraordinary improvement of
£152,062 in last term’s record net earn-
ings :
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 78,163 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 324,845
Profit sale assets, £47,518 .. .. 372,363
Unexplained reduction, £4294.. .. 368,069
1952. .119,430 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 93,000 26,480 394,499
Profit sale assets, £24,155 .. .. 418,654
1953.. 86,737 8 p.c. 6 p.c: 93,000 412,391
Profit sale assets, £152,761 .. .. 565,152
Unexplained reduction, £5OOO .. 560,152
1954.. 49,768 8 p.c.' 4 p.c. 74,000 535,920
Profit sale assets, £26,887 .. .. 562,807
Unexplained reduction, £ll,OOO .. 551,807
1955. .201,830f8 p.c. 8 p.c.112,000 89,830 641,637
•Subject to intangibles, £291,820 at 30/6/’55, and
allowing for estimated tax liability. f Subject
to revision.
The 1954 figure was affected by an
accumulation of high-cost stocks and fall
in selling-prices, especially overseas. The
£201,830 of profit claimed last term was
written after allowing £74,957 (up
£12,234) for depreciation and £llO,OOO
(up £72,674) for taxation. It covered
the pref. div. and 17.4 p.c. on the
£950,000 of ord. capital as against 1.4,
5.3, 8.7, 4.4 and 1.7 p!c. back to 1950.
The latest profit, however, cannot be
taken as a reliable guide to future per-
formances, though they promise to be
better than for the years prior to 1955.
Hence the board’s cautious 8 p.c. distribu-
tion.
The financial structure was brought
into much better balance:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Reservesf .. .. 514,896 573,246 751,637
Overdraft .. .. 1,003,129 923,771 702,334
Creditors .. .. 284,894 376,569 410,527
Suspense account.. 24 1,097 346
Staff fund .. 3,281 7,951 14,730
Final divs. .. 93,000 74,000 112,000
Total .. £3,249,224 £3,356,634 £3,391,574
Freeholds, etc. .. 640,496 672,334 761,075
Plant, etc. . . 365,949 891,060 438,695
Shares .. .. 11,634 11,634 11,639
Stocks .. .. 1,437,847 1,461,902 1,391,189
Debtors . . .. 487,073 506,281 476,620
Cash .. .. 15,340 21,578 20,536
Intangibles* .. 290,885 291,845 291,820
Total .. £3,249,224 £3,356,634 £3,391,674
* Mainly difference between book-value and par value
of inter-co. shareholdings,
t Before deducting estimated tax liability.
The year’s net additions to freeholds and
plant were £88,741 and £47,635 respec-
tively. Stocks were reduced by £70,713
and book-debts by £29,661, while £221,437
was slashed off the overdraft, and only
£33,958 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Vic.)
nrHIS co. and Kandos Cement, Ltd.—
holding concerns which are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
Pty.—are now beginning to share in the
bigger harvests reaped by the proprietary
operating co., following the steady growth
of its plant-capacity. The work began
about six years ago, and was financed
partly out of surplus earnings and partly
from £500,000 of fresh share-capital,
which lifted the total on its register to
£2,500,000.
To take up its half of the increase in
the operating co.’s capital, Australian
Cement put out 73,269 of its own £1
shares at a premium of 10s. each in 1951,
and drew upon cash, etc., for the balance.
At the same time it scattered £114,065 of
bonus-scrip, thus taking the sting out of
the premium on the cash-issue. The div.,
which was kept steady at 8 p.c. for the
11 years to 1953, was lifted to 9 p.c. in
1954 and to 10 p.c. last term, when a
further £473,883 of bonus-shares was
handed out, one-for-two. The gift, which
raised paid capital to £1,421,649, makes
10 p.c. worth 15 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the handout. It came from a
reserve of £660,000 created by writing-up
the book-value of the holding in the
operating co.
The gift was more liberal than antici-
pated by the market, which had
lengthened its bid for the f.-p. £1 shares
from 38s. 9d. to 51s. during the first
seven months of 1955. Then, following
the announcement, the figure shot up to
595. cum rights. It stood at 375. 6d.
last week, giving a return of 5.3 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div., which the market obviously
expects to be maintained.
Since the curtain is kept drawn over
the operating co.’s figures, the true posi-
tion can only be guessed at by outsiders.
Here is as much as this Australian
Cement co.’s p. and 1. figures, etc., tell
for the last half-dozen years:
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 66,266 8 p.c. = 60,835 6,431 366,635
Reserves capitalised, £114,065.. .. 252,570
Share premiums, £18,317 .. ...270,887
Unexplained reduction, £755 .. .. 270,132
1951.. 69,922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270,178
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 288,495
1952.. 76,773 8 p.c. = 75,821 952 289,447
1953.. 82,580 8 „ ~75,821 6,759 296,206
1954.. 83,022 9 „ ~85,298 293,930
Assets revalued, £660,000 .. .. 953,930
Reserves capitalised, £473,883 .. 480,047
1955. . 101,376 10 p.c. =118,471 462,952
Last term’s interim and final divs. were
both at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. Another
distribution is to be made in July next
as a final for the year to June 30, 1956,
the balancing-date having been changed.
Last term’s 10 p.c. div. called for
£17,095 more than the year’s net earn-
ings, which were made up of dividends
£97,175 (up £18,750) and commissions,
etc., £11,209 (up £386), less exes, and tax-
provisions £7009 (up £782). The £101,376
of profit was 7.1 p.c. on capital as it now
stands. So to cover a 10 p.c. distribution
the operating co. would need to pay about
10i p.c. on its capital. For the decade
to 1953 it appears to have paid 6 p.c.,
or thereabouts, followed by 6| p.c. in
1954 and 1\ p.c. last term. Its distribu-
tions are believed to have been conserva-
tive because of heavy capital expenditure
on plant, etc. The writing-up by the
holding co., already mentioned, also sug-
gests that payment of 10£ p.c. by the
operating co. might present no insuper-
able difficulty, temporary curtailment of
public-works expenditure notwithstand-
ing.
At Fyansford (Vic.), where two big
rotary-kilns have been modernised and
a third, but smaller, unit installed, plant-
capacity has been increased by about
50 p.c. since 1950, raising it to over
300,000 tons p.a., and preparations are


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
'actors to Government, Mui
pping, Banking and Comm i
*titutions throughout Austr
jACKSOiy T
O’StttIJVAV
mum
trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
. Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
f
BORN 1820—STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.186.12A
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
4
4
4
*
a
*t™
4
*T
® 0
*
X
eg w
%
rWK/tr&'j i<trz>
zi
AVIATION
¥
SERVICE,
mrnmmmmmm « i jihiiii—i win 'i HWT
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
4/59
now in hand for installation of
another kiln with a capacity of
about 100,000 tons p.a. This
should ensure that the co. main-
tains its grip on all but a small
fraction of the Victorian market.
The 250,000-odd-tons-p.a. works
at Kandos, which shares the
N. S. Wales market with five
other producers, have also been
modernised.
In addition materials-handling
equipment and other labor-
saving devices have been in-
stalled at both centres, thus
increasing operational efficiency
and reducing costs per unit of
production. Moreover, the two
plants are known to be still
moderately capitalised per ton
of output. All this means much
when it comes to profit-earning
in a market which looks like
becoming steadily more competi-
tive in the years ahead.
Ml. Lyell (Tas.)
TTNTIL a couple of years ago
the bulk of post-war profits
won by this big low-grade
copper-producer, etc., came
from outside investments. Since
then it has been the other way
about, thanks to the rise in the
price of the red metal, bigger
throughput of ore, and increased
mill and operational efficiency.
Here is comparison of income
and its breakdown:
, Sept. 30 —%
Income— 1954. 1955.
Copper, etc. .. £3,122,129 £3,691,861
Dividends .. 187,507 216,461
Total .. £3,309,636 £3,908,322
Exes.—
Mining . . .. 1,226,231 1,253,012
Refining, smelting 1,190,713 1,230,226
Development, de-
preciation .. 183,970 195,883
Administration,
etc 309,877 420,970
Total.. .. £2,910,791 £3,100,091
Net profit .. 398,845 808,231
Dividend P ,c " • •
.umaena j amt> _ £203,438 £377,813
Last term’s £808,231 (up
£409,386) of profit was 34.7 p.c.
on the £2,325,000 of capital,
compared with 17.1, 8.6, 10, 8.4
and 5.7 p.c. back to 1950.
Dividends received (£216,461, up
£28,954) were 9.3 p.c. and profit
from mining (£591,770, up
£380,432) 25.4 p.c. on capital.
The div., which rose from
p.c. in 1953 to 8| p.c. in 1954,
was lifted to 16i p.c., which
called for less than half the
year’s profit. In view of the
nature of the undertaking, the
immediate favorable outlook for
copper, and lift in total fees of
the five directors from £4OOO to
£6OOO p.a., many shareholders
consider that last term’s distri-
bution was too conservative.
Over the last seven years the
average profit was approxi-
mately 13 p.c. on capital and the
average distribution ' 7.8 p.c.,
thus leaving about four-tenths
of the profit in the business.
The board’s reason for hold-
ing on to more than half the
year’s profit is that money is
needed to finance a new develop-
ment project (estimated cost
about £325,000), which includes
driving a 3800 ft. tunnel and
provision of a new ore-pass
system to suit the new crushing-
station to be erected at the south
end of the open-cut. The co.
has already gone substantially
into debt to finance develop-
ment from which earnings are
now beginning to benefit, and at
the moment loan funds are
difficult to obtain for mining.
The mainspring behind the
leap in the year’s earnings was
the rise in the price of copper.
For the year to September 30
last the Australian figure for
producers averaged about £392
per ton as against £330 for the
preceding 12 months. Early in
September* 1955, it stood at
£497.75, dropped to £458.5 a
month later, then shot up to
£504.5 early in 1956, and stood
at £499.75 last week. It all
augurs well for a higher rate of
mine earnings for the current
term, which will cover the nine
months to June 30 next, balanc-
ing-date having been changed.
The market for the metal has
been much influenced by Ameri-
can demand, which has been
notably strong recently. How-
ever, given freedom from strikes,
the price is expected to ease as
the world supply-demand posi-
tion gets into balance.
Copper is an international
commodity. About 42 p.c. of
world primary production (ex-
cluding Russia) is mined in
North America, 27 p.c. in
Africa, 19 p.c. in Central and
South America, 5.5 p.c. in
Europe, 5 p.c. in Asia and 1.5
p.c. in Australia, which is a net
importer of the fabricated metal.
As more of the co.’s mechani-
cal shovels were put to work in
the opencut, tonnages handled
have stepped up:
Total Over- Assay
Materials, burden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. P.c.
’54..2,923,462 1,347,714 1,575,748 0.714
’55..3,337,977 1,735,778 1,602,199 0.657
Last term’s ratio of overburden
to ore was 1 to 0.92 as against
1 to 1.1 for the previous year.
The ore treated yielded 37,232
tons (down 1543 tons) of 23.7
p.c. copper concentrates. In
addition 2641 tons concentrates,
containing 625 tons copper,
were sold to Westralian super-
phosphate manufacturers.
The fine metal-content of the
blister produced compares as
follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1954 .. 8938 32,979 4712
1955 .. 8283 31,282 4874
In addition 46,695 tons (down
7293 tons) pyritic concentrates,
assaying 49 p.c. sulphur, was
produced, and more than that
was sold. The pyrites, silver
and gold make a welcome con-
tribution to mining profits.
Ore - reserves stand at
45,989,000 tons, estimated to
average 0.73 p.c. copper,
0.0640 z. silver and o.ooBdwt.
gold. There is thus nearly 29
years’ work ahead of the mill at
last term’s rate of treatment, with
the probability of more average-
grade ore being developed.
When the books closed the
co. held £456,909 in deposits,
etc., which was more than
enough to meet the estimated
cost of the new development-
programme :
1954. 1955.
Metals .. .. £802,296 £700,732
Book debts .. 132,680 288,238
Stores, etc. .. 858,673 791,560
Shares other cos... 2,705,462 2,705,462
Deposits, etc. .. 466,949
Total.. .. £4,499,011 £4,942,941
Liabilities* .. 1,750,313 1,737,279
Liquid surplus .. £2,748,698 £3,205,662
* Includes a 15-year loan of £1,350,000.
The year’s better trading again
shows up in a reduction of
£101,564 in stocks, which helped
swell profits, of course, and
growth of £155,558 in book-
debts. Net addition to fixed
assets (£2,016,190) was £31,652.


Missing Friend
PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE—WILL JIM (or
JAMES) WHITE, and his brother WILLIE (or WIL-
LIAM) WHITE, or their children, communicate witß
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Albert Street,
Auckland, New Zealand, re the Estate of their
late brother PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE, who died
at Henderson, New Zealand, on the Bth December,
1953, and was a son of MARY JANE WHITE, and
a brother of MARY (or MAUD) WHITE. Friend;
of the persons advertised for are asked to bring tin?
advertisement to their notice.
Divorce Notice .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce. w/VPT ,,p
TO ALMA MYRTLE SIMCOE—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD HILTON ERIC SIMCOE has
Petition for Divorce No. 3872 of » ;
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upward If you wish to d
fend you may enter an appearance with the Divorce
Registrar Supreme Court Queen’s Square Sydney by
27th April 1956 and obtain a copy of the Petitio
without charge from MESSRS. VINCENT J. HR >
DON ALD & CO., Solicitors, City Mutual Building,
60 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
SYDNEY
There is nothing particularly lively
about the city at present, mainly because
the humidity makes for limpness both of
spirit and action. Certainly, crowds
turned-up at Mark Foy’s for the opening
of the Blake Prize exhibition, always one
of our best-attended art-showings, but
few had the energy to go on to the Aus-
tralian Industrial and Commercial
Artists’ Exhibition (what a mouthful!) at
David Jones’ gallery. The A.B.C. was
well represented, as Sir Richard Boyer,
the commission’s chairman, opened the
Blake, and Mr. Charles Moses, its general-
manager, came on from the wine-tasting
at the Showground to open the
A.LCA.E.
' IV
☆ ☆ ☆
The trend towards informality in
mannequin-parades was considerably ad-
vanced by the champagne-party and
winter-preview which Henriette Lamotte
held at her new salon in St. James Build-
ing in aid of the Royal Blind Society of
N.S.W. The mannequins, wearing
luxurious mink coats and Rolls-Royce
hats, sauntered through a chattering bevy
of society belles sprinkled here and there
with an intrepid husband or two.
One specially gala hat was a brown
mink toque with one gold rose, and there
were several dramatic turbans of jersey
and the like, with wimples and crusaders’
caps (called “camails”), while innovations
in fur-design were the collars and trim-
mings on suede jackets of rich jewel-
colors.
Mrs. Dick Allen wore black, and was
hatless. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere wore
white pleated silk and a beautiful little
hat of mink-tails and crystallised snow-
berries. Mrs. Rex Money was hatless,
her cream linen printed with rosebuds.
Mrs. Noel Vincent had a Paris-model
hat of black, with two kingfisher-feathers
crossed in the front. Miss Beth Camp-
bell, whose dress was the same as Mrs.
Dekyvere’s, was another of the hatless
brigade, which included Mrs. lan Jacoby,
whose miniature poodle, Pepe le Moko,
was kept company by Henriette
Lamofte’s Lillibelle (a standard poodle
of great aplomb) and the Hunter-Kerrs’
little Pekinese.
#
The Salici Puppets, which are a high-
light of “Laugh Around the Clock” at
the Tivoli, should be an inspiration to
Sydney’s growing army of puppet-lovers.
The standard they set is very high, which
is not surprising, as the Salici family have
been making and showing puppets for
six generations.
Every movement is about perfect, such
as the correctness of the tiny violinist’s
bow-strokes and the way in which his
miniature fingers seem to be pressing the
strings, the nonchalant stride of the
puppet man-about-town who lights and
“smokes” a cigarette, and the profes-
sional air of the acrobats as they take
applause. Such excellence should be
seen by all who are interested in puppets
and also by those who just want- to see
a good show.
tc ☆ ☆
Men of goodwill are invited to join
th& “ball-and-chain gang” which lends a
hand every Sunday helping to finish the
Spastic Centre Country Children’s Hostel
at French’s Forest. The Spastic Centre
has accommodation for 16 country
children, but if there are enough
volunteers (skilled or unskilled) for this
Sunday work it is hoped to have the new
hostel in its glorious Middle Harbor
setting finished by the end of the year,
so that over 100 spastic children from
the country may have the benefit of
training and education. Two Sundays
of work entitles a member to wear the
ball-and-chain emblem which was so
proudly sported by hundreds of Sydney
men who helped a few years ago to
build the Spastic Centre’s medical-block.
What offers for the new gang?
☆ ☆ ☆
The Courtesy Circle, a group of women
pledged to foster the cause of politeness
in public- and private-life, entertained
Mrs. John Metcalfe as guest-of-honor at
a party on Thursday afternoon. Mrs.
Metcalfe is patroness of the Courtesy
Circle and president of the Lyceum Club
(where the party was held), as well as
being president of the National Council
of Women, in which office her services
won her an M.B.E. in the New Year’s
Honors. Mrs. Iney Marden presented a
bouquet and a traveller’s book to her,
and speakers included Mrs. Edmund
Gates and Mrs. L. Booker. There were
about 130 guests, and a musical-pro-
gramme was supplied by Olivia and Derri
Gains (who have just returned from
Vienna), Stephen Butz and Len Davidson.
June Whitehead, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. G. S. Whitehead, of Roseville,
has chosen St. Andrews Cathedral for
her wedding, and will have a choral
service when she marries Barry Cocks,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. Verner Cocks,
of Rose Bay, on May 12. June, whose
engagement-ring is a ruby surrounded by
diamonds, will be attended by her two
sisters, Janelle and Mrs. Nigel Davey
(Wagga). Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
Dressing was very mixed at the world-
premiere of the David Lichine ballet
“Corrida” at the Empire. The rain came
down in torrents just as people were arriv-
ing, and several women took off their
evening-shoes to leap across the running
gutters. It was also so hot that those
who wore strapless evening-gowns were
not only the most glamorous but also the
most comfortable. Their escorts suffered,
however, for many of the men who had
come in lounge-suits did not hesitate to
take their coats off, but those in dinner-
jackets apparently felt that noblesse
oblige prevented them from doing like-
wise. Lovely dresses noted were Mrs.
Sharkey Simpson’s dove-grey nylon-net,
with its wide sash of satin in a deeper
shade, and Miss Zoe Redler’s grey
chiffon ballerina over pink satin, with
its shirred bands of pink satin on skirt
and neckline. Zoe accompanied her
parents, Dr. A. Redler (Consul for
Guatemala) and Mrs. Redler —Mrs.
Redler looking very charming in black
guipure-lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
What a horrid habit the newspapers
have of quoting the age of people who
get into the news. Thus, “Mrs. Daisy
Soandso, aged 45, today fell from a tram
in George-street and broke her ankle” —
as if it wasn’t bad enough to break one’s
ankle without having one’s acquaint-
ances saying, “So she’s forty-five, fancy! ”
But perhaps it is all part of a modern
tendency to be open about one’s age. In
this Letter’s young days the ages of the
older generation were wrapped in
mystery, but today it is quite common to
hear children say things like “My
mother’s forty-one tomorrow, but we’re
only having four candles on the cake.”
% V V
Miss Meysie Law, who has been
general-secretary of Sydney Y.W.C.A. for
the past three years, has resigned as
from March 31, as she intends to go
abroad in the near future. Sydney will
miss this charming and cultured lady,
who has won many friends by her
gracious personality during her term of
office.
& if.
The Musica Viva Society, which made
such a wonderful contribution to Sydney’s
musical-life last year, has an impressive
programme for the coming season. In
April the Pascal String Quartet will re-
turn. In June the Lasalle String Quartet,
of Cincinnati, will be here for a short
visit, and in September the Robert
Masters Piano Quartet will come from
Great Britain. In addition, two concerts
will be given by musicians living here.
Music-lovers who want chamber-music
of the highest calibre to be established
and maintained in Australia can achieve
this by renewing their membership or
enlisting new members now.
MELBOURNE
The Archbishop of Melbourne (Right
Rev. J. J. Booth), assisted by the Rev. J.
G. W. Brown, officiated at the marriage
of Felicity Ann, younger daughter of Mr.
Justice and Mrs. R. R. Sholl, of Mal-
vern, to Graham Lindsay kiddle, at the
Melbourne Grammar Chapel. The bride
chose a gown of white chiffon over
organza, the bodice having a boat-
shaped neckline and threequarter-
length shirred sleeves. The skirt was
made with a front panel, gathered over
the hipline, and with a tiered back panel
falling into a train. A half-circle of tiny
white roses held the short tulle veil and
she carried a bouquet of gardenias,
tuberoses and stephanotis.
The bride’s sister, Mrs. J. H. W. Perme-
zel, was matron-of-honor and the bride-
groom’s sisters, Judy and Anne Kiddle,
were bridesmaids. Their ballerina-frocks
were of white checked-nylon over steel-
grey taffeta. The bouffant skirts were
highlighted at the waist with pale-pink
satin cummerbunds finished with a large
bow. The ’groom, who is the only son' of
Mrs. J. L. Kiddle, of Malvern, and the
late Mr. Kiddle, had Val Morgan as best
man and Ted Gleeson and the bride’s
twin-brother David as groomsmen.
Reception No. 9 Darling-street.
☆ ☆ ☆
i
One-hundred yards of embossed white
nylon-tulle fashioned the gown Theresa
Joan Murphy wore when she was married
to Bernard Peter Smith at St. Brendan’s
Church, Flemington. A satin coronet
held the long tulle veil in place, and she
carried a mother-of-pearl missal with a
trailer of white orchids.
The bride, second daughter of Mrs.
B. Murphy, of Port Fairy (formerly of
Liverpool), and the late Mr. T. Murphy,
had her three sisters in attendance. Mrs.
Jack Matthews was matron-of-honor
(her husband gave the bride away), and
Bridie and Ann Rose were bridesmaids.
They wore ballerina frocks of white
satin and tulle with matching boleros,
and carried bouquets of red roses. The
bridegroom is second son of Mrs. Marion
Smith, of Ascot Vale, and the late Mr.
Leo Smith; his brother lan was best
man and Frank Dixon and John McCal-
man were groomsmen. The 200 guests
were received at No. 9 Darling-street by
Mrs. Smith (who wore a short dinner-
frock of delphinium-blue guipure-lace,
and a small hat of satin) and Mrs.
Murphy (whose frock of rose-beige silk
was worn with a large matching-straw
hat).
* ☆ ☆
Third wedding-of-the-week was that of
Jennifer June, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. H. Tolley, of Balwyn, and John
Philip, only son of Mr. and Mrs. G. F.
Ward, of Clayton, at the Littlejohn Mem-
orial chapel, Scotch College, the Rev. Dr.
A." Watson officiating. Jennifer’s gown
of white Swiss organdie had guipure-lace
motifs scattered over the. very wide skirt,
which also featured panels of guipure-
lace. From a headdress of guipure-lace
petals, matching those round the neck-
line of her gown, fell a long tulle veil.
Her posy was of white frangipani.
The bride was attended by Mrs.
Douglas Jennings, Mrs. Geoffrey Wat-
son, Judy Mayes and Pat Hanna, who
wore ice-blue nylon ballerina frocks and
matching pleated bands on their hair.
Their small posies were of white rose-
buds, carnations and stephanotis. Keith
Bennetts was best man and groomsmen
were Richard Tolley, Douglas Jennings
and Barry Muir. ■
The Venetian Court of the Australia,
where the reception was held, was magni-
ficently decorated. Receiving the guests
—among whom were Sir Frank and Lady
Richardson, Lady Snow and Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Sheppard—Mrs. Tolley
wore a sheath-frock of cream guipure-
lace, and Mrs. Ward a gown of silver-
grey organza trimmed with white guipure-
lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Variety was the keynote of the col-
lection of hats shown by Anne Collins,
of Sydney, at the Australia. From the
great French houses, and from Madame
Vernier, erf London (who makes most of
the hats worn by the Duchess of Kent),
they ranged from the large to the “merest
nothings.” Some sat back behind the
hair-line, others well forward. It is an
individual matter this coming season, for
there is the choice of berets (new and
exciting shapes), pillboxes, cloches, bon-
nets and toques.
Great interest is centred round the
materials used in the hats. Shetland-wool
jersey seen in numerous models is gos-
samer-light and as transparent as fine
veijing. A new and fascinating material
is “moufflon,” a soft, long-haired fabric
which looks not unlike Angora in tex-
ture ; it is used for large hats, and also
for the flat-top beret or the furred-toque.
Antelope-velour and fur-jersey are also
new.
Although Edwardian in their influence,
large hats of “moufflon” are becomingly
adapted to the modern woman, and have
been designed to, as it were, highlight
the long, slim line of the new silhouette
for autumn and winter. Even the pillbox
is wider, and more flattering than previ-
ously ; berets are deeper-crowned and sit
well down on the forehead. Cloches in-
corporate the broader look and have soft
brims sloping forward, and bonnets take
on a new look, with the line swinging to
the back.
Colors used in this lovely collection
are warm and vibrant. There is a new
importance in brown, in all its variations,
especially the rich browns of furs. Dark-
greens come into the autumn picture, and
black, the color chosen by De Givenchy,
still retains its elegance for smart women.
Other shades are pink, blue, grey, topaz,
sapphire-blue and mother-of-pearl-
yellow.
Lovely Sydney girl, Lois Stevens, wears
this unusual and striking hat made of the
very latest in fantasy-feathers of white
lightly tipped in black, the high pillbox
crown flanked by curving feather-motifs.
Worn back on the head, the hat has the
appearance of a medieval coif. Designed
by Madame Vernier, who makes hats
for the Duchess of Kent, it was seen at
the Anne Collins collection shown at the
Hotel Australia.
One of the most elegant creations was
the Renaissance beret, with the new, full,
heavy look achieved by a gathered-brim.
It was in red-geranium velvet, and was
originally designed by Madame Vernier
for the Duchess of Kent, for whom she
also designed a hat named Marina, made
in moufflon, and with a rose placed at
one side.
Alexandra was the name Jacques Fath
gave to a cocktail-hat, a white feather-
bandeau radiating from a glittering
diamente-and-crystal horseshoe - motil.
From Dior came a smart pillbox of mink
feathers in a subtle shade of brown, with
a transparent crown of nylon-tulle. A
little bit of nonsense for evening was a
pillbox by Fath of pure white antelope-
velour, banded with rouleaux motifs.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN MORRIS KEIR formerly of
‘“Willawong” Station Murringo near
Young.—TAKE NOTICE that JANET
MERLE KEIR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4207 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 27th day of
April 1956 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion free of charge from MESSRS. DAVID
S. DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THi S ——
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold It Co. PtJ. Ltd.
< Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• . Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Bstablished 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS •
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W.‘ BADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JU. E. M ANION, Manager.
Branches la all States Agencies In all Country Centres
,#s
of*
m
WE WILL
GIVE YOU A
BILL OF RIGHTS
Freedom of religion, opinion, and speech.
The right of every individual to own property.
No resumption of private property for public purposes
without just compensation.
No socialisation or nationalisation of any industry,
business, or undertaking without the approval of the
owners or a referendum.
Except for defence or education, no compulsion of
any person to join associations of any kind, including
trade unions.
► The inherent right to freedom of peaceful assembly
and association.
► Freedom to join unions voluntarily.
► Free choice of employment.
► Every individual's right to equal and speedy justice
in a public hearing before an impartial tribunal
without political interference.
VOTE FOR YOUR
LIBERAL CANDIDATE
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
"TOT
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Blake Prize
Mark Foy’s, in Sydney, with
its leisurely flight of stone steps
and its spacious and gracious
patio, where now you can buy
coffee “expresso” served in the
latest Italian style, is such a
pleasant shop that it seems a
pity to take the lift up to the
Blake Prize exhibits which one
knows from former experience
will be lurking like bats in the
ceiling.
The fragrance from the per-
fume-counter fills the whole of
the airy ground-floor . . Still,
duty is duty.
And there they all are, just as
in previous years, continuing the
weird alliance between religion
and the most extreme forms of
primitive art, slab after slab of
oil - paint mechanised into
abstracts, tortured into murky
coils of surrealism, punched
into deliriums of dots . . .
Of course there are a few
works with some quality: all the
“isms” are legitimate, if they
work. There is obviously tech-
nical dexterity behind Herbert
Badham’s thinnish “The Expul-
sion,” with the Garden tumbling
about the heads of Adam and
Eve; Donald Friend’s gold in-
lays, if too derivative to be more
than technical exercises, show
his known craftsmanship ; Peter
Laverty’s “The Deluge” has
force in its stripes of blue and
green rain. There are abstracts
as good as any other abstracts ;
and once you accept the “values”
of primitivism there is no reason
why you shouldn’t like the entire
exhibition and even some of the
paintings Tom Thompson’s
Gestapo or Ogpu men, striding
12ft. high through “The Warn-
ing of Joseph,” for instance—
rather more than others.
But the question which recurs
to this commentator about it all
is: if you go in for primitive
art, why not go in for primitive
religion? The only proper
spiritual equivalent for the kind
of art that throws away every
refinement of civilisation ac-
quired since the Greeks is the
beating of the tom-tom in the
jungle.
The curious thing about Eric
Smith’s prizewinner—which is
infinitely more pleasant in the
original than the black-whiskered
nightmare which newspaper
reproduction made of it —is that,
on the suggestion of a face, there
is a suggestion of the traditional
expression of piety and Divine/
suffering. If it was for this
quality that it got the prize—
and there seems little else to
distinguish it, though the familiar
mauve color-scheme is pleasant
enough and the crude paint and
crude form effective in a primi-
tive way—the judges, perhaps in
spite of themselves, have run
counter to the whole general
trend of the movement they are
fostering. For once you have
approved of a sensitive expres-
sion on a recognisable face, you
have taken the first step on the
road that leads back, with what-
ever painful slowness, to
Michelangelo.
♦Jf
Grandma Moses, Etc. \
Haying been presented with a
Grandma Moses, looking dimly
like the first effort of Breughel
at the age of two, and an
extraordinary set of oils-on-
cotton by Solomon Balatchaw
Damar, an elderly Ethiopian
who does colorful comic-cuts in
traditional Middle Eastern style
of battles and lion-hunts, and
having acquired off their own
bat some ballet-drawings by
Elaine Haxton (very gay, but
hardly more than commercial
art) and some of the drawings
for Robert Klippel’s fly-by-night
“constructions,” brightly decor-
ated with splashes from a child’s
paintbox, the trustees of the
N. S. Wales National Gallery,
now showing their acquisitions
for 1955, have certainly had a
good year’s play.
Whether they also acquired
any masterpieces for the pride of
the present and the delight of
posterity is a moot point: but at
least some pictures worth having
were Lambert’s slightly-too-por-
celain-like portrait of Thea
Proctor; Hilder’s “The Cross-
roads,” with its white horse
beautifully materialised out of
a mist of light in a watercolor
larger than it needed to be;
E. Phillips Fox’s sombre “Milk-
ing Shed” ; the big Wilk>n Steer
portrait in the grand-style and
the admirable pencil-drawing by
Lloyd Rees; also, as capable
works of the year, Jean Apple-
ton’s hot red “Landscape,” Jean
Bellette’s wooden but weighty
“Coastal Still Life,” Russell
Drysdale’s “Woman Filing Her
Nails” (which looks like the
back-bedroom nude of Sickert,
handed on from William Dobell),
James R. Jackson’s rich “Path-
way, Athol Gardens” and —since
one has an indelible affection
for pink pigs—Leonard Shillam’s
pink pig in sandstone.
* * ❖
Commercial Art
Commercial art by the Aus-
tralian Commercial Industrial
Artists’ Association is showing
at David Jones’ gallery, Sydney.
This commentator found little
really to catch his eye beyond
an impeccably-drawn packet of
Craven A, a poster of Tarzan
or somebody in the jungle and
a beautiful pair of knickers;
but doubtless Australian com-
mercial art is advancing rapidly
in all directions.
Stage and Music
Borovanskys
It doesn’t seem so long ago —
a year or two, perhaps—that one
was complaining that Kathleen
Gorham’s dancing was all per-
sonality and not enough pre-
cision, so it is a pleasant duty,
after seeing her recent dancing
with the Borovanskys, and par-
ticularly her current perform-
ance in the world-premiere of
David Lichine’s “Corrida,” to
note that the rather boisterous
little brunette of earlier years
has given way to a precise and
beautiful dancer who seems able
to switch from comedy to
tragedy with the same breath-
taking virtuosity with which she
crossed the stage on one point
a few weeks ago.
Lichine’s new ballet, to the
oddly disturbing Scarlatti music,
is about a bullfighter who is
plagued by amorous women and
then enchanted by a girl who
outwits his assistant and con-
trives to remain when -the others
are tossed out. The enchant-
ment is brief —a jealous rival
knifes her —and the bullfighter
goes to a grief-stricken end.
It is one of the few new
ballets seen in recent years
which looks as though it
deserves a permanent place in
any company’s repertoire, and
what Miss Gorham put into it
—some remarkably accurate and
articulate dancing and a
trembling mood of fated passion
—should / please Mr. Lichine
immensely and be bottled for
future reference.
Paul ( Grinwis, too, dis-
tinguished himself as the bull-
fighter, particularly in the pas-
deux with Miss Gorham, and
then again when, with notable
skill, he danced both the bull
and the matador and never lost
track of either for a moment.
An uninspired “Petrouchka,”
with the orchestra making an
unduly heavy intrusion of the
pathos of the ballet, and “Pine-
apple Poll,” in which Peggy
Sager’s flawless technique was
rather lost in the rough comedy
of the Bumboat Woman, com-
pleted the programme.
❖ ❖ *
Heinze’s “Jupiter”
Sydney’s Mozart Festival was
fittingly ended by conductor
Bernard Heinze with a perform-
ance of the composer’s last and
finest symphony, the 41st (the
“Jupiter”), the greatest composed,
before Beethoven’s “Eroica.” It
is, in fact, 19th-century music
written in the 18th century.
Logic and perfection of crafts-
manship touch this work at every
point; rich themes blend with
splendid harmonies; there are
pages of incomparable wood-
wind writing, and the final move-
ment is a fusion of the sym-
phonic and contrapuntal styles
without parallel.
It was in this Finale that
Heinze drew the best from the
orchestra. The fugal develop-
ment of the five themes —which
has been called “pure thinking
in sound” —was limpid, the
balance between the choirs was
finely held, and the winding-up
coda, with its Bachlike poly-
phony, was a triumph , for all
concerned.
Maurice Clare was soloist in
the Fifth Violin Concerto, K.
219. Though given to physical
weaving, Mr. Clare conjured a
fine broad tone in the adagio,
and in the allegro and rondo
his high-speed accuracy was
admirable.
The other Concerto was for
Flute, K. 313, with Neville
Amadio as soloist. The flute,
weaker and less mellow than the
clarinet, is nbt the most attrac-
tive of solo instruments, but this
beautiful work was played with
a facile skill and persuasive tone
that certainly raised the instru-
ment’s prestige.
The fourth work on the pro-
gramme was the lovely serenade,
“Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,”
played with sprightliness and
meticulous rhythm.
Talkies
“The Young Lovers” (Sydney
Embassy): An English film in
which an original story is told
with freshness and under-
standing.
A young member of the U.S.
Embassy staff in London meets
by chance at the ballet the
daughter of an Iron Curtain
country Consul, neither knowing
who the other is. The meeting
coincides with an Anglo-U.S.
security-check on the staff; the
girl, of course, is under the sur-
veillance of her Consulate’s
secret police, and their romance
burgeons in an atmosphere of
suspected treason on both sides.
There is no climactic hail of
bullets no violence at all, in
fact. The necessarily indetermin-
ate denouement is as logical as
could have been devised. Fine
acting by everyone in the cast
includes an especially sensitive
performance by French actress
Odile Versois as the girl, and
one of icy correctness by David
Kossof as her father.
“Dance, Little Lady” (Sydney
Lyceum): Verray English, don-
cherknow. Husband, boundah,
exploits ballerina-wife. Smashes
her up in car, abandons her for
intact ballerina. Cad returns
later to exploit his promising
young dancer-daughter; dies
sensibly in heroic circs., thus
allowing widow to marry jolly
old doc. who loves her. Fearful
tripe, what?


The Witch of Wellaway
by m.l. Skinner
SENT to take charge of an
outback hospital when I
was young, I met the
woman Isabella Abdul.
She did not in the least look
like a witch, but the little com-
munity called her one. Tall and
fair, very handsome, with mock-
ing green eyes and an easy car-
riage, she lived in a little white
house on top of the bush-
covered hill across the highway
from the hospital.
As we were a mile from the
township, it was a very lonely
place—appallingly lonely for
me, for my only companions
were a cook and an aged orderly,
the only patients, as a rule, old
pensioners in the men’s ward.
When I had been there a week
this Mrs. Abdul, dressed-up like
a doll with cotton gloves and
everything, came down to call;
and when she knocked on the
door, not knowing in the least
who she was, I naturally asked
her to come in, then found my-
self staring at a couple of
magnificent cockatoos perched
on her shoulders.
She appeared to read my
thoughts, whistled to the birds
and they hopped on to the
veranda-rail, eyeing me with
malice like little boys deprived
of expected afternoon-tea and
cake.
It would be a bore to get tea
for anyone, I thought there
was no electricity or gas—so I
put out the sherry.
“You don’t drink wine,” said
my visitor. “Neither do I. Let’s
put the kettle on and make tea.
I can tell you your fortune in the
tea-cup.”
What cheek, I thought, lighting
the primus, very much annoyed,
for it always flared and made me
sooty.
“It’s you,” she said, as I stood
back grasping the pricker ready
for emergencies. “You carry
little flames in you that upset it.”
What did she mean? She was
turning me into the one to be
entertained instead of entertain-
ing, and I resented it. I positively
didn’t like her. She smelt like a
goat and put my clean white
uniform in jeopardy.
“I can see you are not
interested in having your fortune
told,” she was saying, lounging
in a chair. “Perhaps if I give
you a dead cert, at long odds for
the Cup next Saturday you
will be.”
“How can you know of a
dead cert, when we are hundreds
of miles from the stables?” I
inquired, struggling with the
pricker and the pump.
“A little bird told me.”
Did she think me a fool? I
flounced away to get the tray,
passing the birds on the veranda.
They were lovely birds but
seemed to mock me, chuckling,
“Pretty Cocky! Cast a spell!
Pretty Cocky!”
A/fY dander up, I returned with
the tray and made tea,
knowing I must show my visitor
that I held pride in my position
as next-in-charge to the doctor.
“Damn and blast!” shrieked
the cockatoos, till their owner
bade them shut up.
“What lovely birds,” I said.
“Corellas, aren’t they?”
“Wee jugglers, to me,” she
answered laughing, pleased.
“They’re more than lovely—
they’re clever. They fly down
and bring me news about the
horses and also herd my Angora
goats.”
“So those goats that roam in
the bush around the hospital are
yours? Are. the camels yours
too?”
“The camels are my hus-
band’s. He runs one of the last
teams left in Australia to bring
in the wool-clips from far-out
stations. He’s usually away, as
he is now.”
There were some moth-eaten
camels wandering in the bush
around us and I answered sar-
castically, “Do your birds herd
the camels too?”
She laughed good-naturedly.
“They look after themselves. It’s
my valuable Angora goats they
herd. I milk them and make
cheese to send to market, but
I also clip them in season and
get a splendid price for the hair.”
“That’s unusual and interest-
ing. It must keep you busy doing
it on your own.”
“I’m not alone. I have the
birds to help me.”
“How can birds help you?”
“I see you are sceptical. When
we’ve finished tea it might amuse
you to see,”
When we went outside it was
such.a heavenly afternoon, serene
and blue, the sun in the west
tipping the wide open space with
gold, that I forgot her nonsense.
The birds came again to her,
kissing and caressing her. I had
never seen corellas so near, or
so tame. Their upper wings were
satiny-white, the lower feathers
primrose and under the tail
brilliant yellow, the forehead
scarlet, neck and breast tipped
with red. 1
Against all this color the eyes
looked out from a ring of the
palest blue crinkled skin like the
blossom of a wildflower. Every
movement they made was
graceful and charming, only their
dark blue beaks and claws
showed how cruel they could be.
They gave no signs of anything
but love, however, towards
Isabella Abdul, rubbing their
cheeks against hers, perkily lift-
ing their crests and nodding as
they chattered and cursed
amusingly.
Presently she stopped and
whistled a tune. They became
agitated, fanned a wing open
and shut, cocked their heads at
her and stretched their claws,
leant towards one another as if
in consultation, and flew off.
Watching them, their shining
white wings beating against the
blue, circling and flying higher
till lost to sight, I sighed with
delight.
“Look on the right,” said Mrs.
Abdul, “and you’ll see them
come down.”
As soon as they came into
view I heard the bell-wether
goat’s bells clanking, and pre-
sently the mob came tearing
along as if the devil were on
their heels.
It wasn’t the devil; it was the
cockatoos on the backs of the
leaders. The birds clutched the
hair of the goats’ heads in those
cruel beaks, using claws for
stirrups and wings for whips,
and rode them up to the little
white house on the hill. Then
all was still.
My eyes felt as big as saucers
as they met those of the woman
who had trained these cockatoos,
but she merely returned my
amazed look with one of
triumph, waved good-bye and,
saying “Come up and see me
Miss M. L. Skinner, who
collaborated with D. H.
Lawrence in writing “The
Boy in the Bush," died last
year. This story,, "The Witch
of Wellaway,” was found
among her manuscripts and
was sent to The Bulletin
by Mr. W. M. By ass, her
executor in Western Australia.
some evening when neither of
us is busy,” went after them.
YjyHEN I spoke of this
marvellous sight to the old
orderly he shook his head, say-
ing: “Have naught to do with
Isabella Abdul. She’s a witch.
She knows things she didn’t
ought ter. There’s not a bloke
around wouldn’t dip her in the
trough if their wives’d stand for
it. She spells bur women, tells
’em tales you wouldn’t believe,
and' skins the cash off ’em.”
“Does she give them tips for
the races? ”
“She could, but she don’t. She
gives no one no tips worth
nothing. She wins all right. Our
bookie lays off her —or he’d be
ruined. How she gets the dope
no one knows, for she’s got no
phone nor nothing, but she
never makes a blue.”
“She offered me a tip, but I
didn’t take it.”
“You was cranky. Did she
curse yer ’cos ye wouldn’t?”
“She only showed me the birds
bringing in the goats.”
/~\NE night I asked the old
orderly to keep an eye on
things as I was going up the hill
to return Mrs. Abdul’s call.
“Gawd!” he exploded. “It’s
full moon. She’s quite barmy
when the moon’s up. Better stay
home by the fire in the sitting-
room and say yer prayers.”
When young and impression-
able, such advice from an old
wise man ha§ its repercussions.
I felt nervous as I plunged into
the bush and up the hill, the
moonlight casting eerie shadows.
Besides, I didn’t like the goats
skipping round, or the camels
solemnly chewing the cud and
looking at me over the shrubs
as if they were from another
world.
With a sigh of relief I
approached the little white house,
though the place was lit only by
the firelight seen through the un-
curtained window. I heard
women’s voices, but when Mrs.
Abdul answered the door there
was silence and she seemed
embarrassed.
However, she said, “Come in.
Come in, but take no notice. I
have to go on. Just sit by the
fire till it’s done.” She drew me
to the far side of the room and
shoved me on a chair.
Half-a-dozen women of vary-
ing ages, their faces shrouded,
sat around while their hostess
continued what I had apparently
interrupted—an incantation in a
queer hoarse voice. The atmo-
sphere grew tense. In my mind
a door slammed and I was im-
potently beating against it,
battering, trying to call “Let
me out!” It seemed as if the
ceiling were slowly coming down,
leaving us all on a quicksand
bottom.
Then Isabella pranced from
woman to woman and gave each
a charm or token —I didn’t see
what and finally waved her
arms over the table. Finishing
her weird performance, she then
said a name and one of the
women answered, her voice
trembling, “I want to know
where my old man hides his
cash.”
“I’ll tell you, but you must
give me one-third of it when
you find it. Dip your finger in
the blood of the goat on the
table.”
The woman who had asked
her favor moved to the table
where the carcass of a goat,
bloody and obscene, was dimly
visible in grotesque shadows cast
by the flickering fire.
I felt sick and wanted to bolt,
but couldn’t, and in a mist heard
this woman Isabella speak again.
“It’s behind the third.brick back
of the right of the dresser.”
Then she called another name.
Clenched as it were in the
throes of some evil power, I
sweated, hot and cold in turns,
for fear is contagious and these
women were filled with fear —
an exciting, dreadful, super-
stitious fear that wiped out
reason and decency.
One husband was courting the
barmaid, another the hotel cook ;
Dick was thieving cattle, Harry
drinking meth., Tom seducing
Ada, Sam writing to a chemist
for advice, on behalf of Aggie. . .
No wonder the blokes wanted
to dip Isabella Abdul in the
trough! w I knew a lot as
doctor’s confidante, but he didn’t
know as much as Mrs. Abdul,
of that I was sure.
Her voice, harsh now and
malicious, went on and on . . .
Oh Lord, if only I could get
away!
At last the chairs scraped back
and weather-beaten hands passed
over money and had a joint of
meat put in them—bloody meat,
bloody—and then the women
went away.
How to get out without an
explosion of temper on my part
and cackling mockery on the
part of Isabella Abdul? I didn’t
even bother to think, but simply
fled into the clear moonlight and
clean bush. The cockatoos flew
over my head screeching—they
must have been released to do it.
I didn’t care, I only wanted to
be free of that witch’s kitchen.
Isabella Abdul knew I would
say nothing of these happenings.
She knew I hadn’t the temerity
to stir up the hornet’s nest since
no good could come of it and
all be stung. She merely smirked
when I met her on the road, but
I knew in a strange way she
felt respect for my uniform, if
none for my person, and she
knew I —well, we’ll say believed
in God.
IT may have been this that
brought her * one dark and
stormy night to the hospital when
she was in dire trouble.
By some chance I had been
reading—by no means a prayer
or tract, but that little poem with
the strange almost unfathomable
meaning that begins:
Have you heard
That silence when the birds are
dead ? Yet, ■
Something pipeth like a bird... „
Did I hear the pipe of a bird?
Startled, I looked at the window
and there I saw a white face peer-
ing in. There is something
distracting about a face peering
in through a window from the
darkness of the night and I
flung open the door without a
thought.
The draught blew the lamp out
and at the same time a figure
pushed past me and shut the
door. This naturally made my
heart pound like fury, for I was
alone in the separate building
that contained the hospital
sitting-room and kitchen. Then
I knew who it was.
The smell of musk and goat
and a bird piping, “Pretty,
pretty Cocky! ” made me shout:
“What in the name of thunder
are you doing down here so
late at night, Mrs. Abdul?”
“I brought a patient.”
“Where is the patient?”
“Here in my hand.”
The woman was mad! I relit
the lamp and my hurricane too.
You may be sure I lit them
speedily, though I was trembling.
Then I saw the little cockatoo
lying in her hands, his scarlet
head on his white wing.
“Is he hurt, Mrs. Abdul?”
“Bella, please, Sister.” She
spoke so gently that I felt
ashamed.
“Is his leg or wing broken?
Do you want me to put on a
splint?”
Her voice broke as she said,
“Nothing is any use. He’s
dying.”
Just then the gay little bird
stood and raised his crest, look-
ing at me with one bright eye.
Then he sank down, muttering,
“Curse him, Bella.”
“He seems perky enough,
Bella, but only one eye is
opened. Open your eyes for me,
Cocky. Pretty pretty Cocky.”
“He has no eye under the
closed lid. That half-caste son-
of-a-bitch Dan shot him with a
catapult.”
“Oh no!” I cried. “What can
we do? Is the poor little bird
in pain? Shall we try some eye-
drops?”
“It won’t hurt him —he feels
no pain.”
“Cast a spell,” the bird
muttered, fluttering up, his head
on one side, fanning his wing
and looking lovely.
“His feathers aren’t drooping,
Bella. Are you sure he won’t
be all right? We’ll give him
some brandy-and-water in a
spoon and I’ll pour you a spot
—you are all done-in. There’s
brandy here for patients.”
TTHE bird cackled over the
brandy, but fought against
the eye-drops. Isabella drained
her glass and took another stiff
shot. Then she became argu-
mentative. “He is dying. Can’t
you feel how limp he is? Before
his spirit leaves him I must cast
the spell, I know he’s dying.”
“How do you know?”
“His mate told me. She said
‘Take him away.’ She would
follow him if she watched him
go without her and if I cast a
spell on the murdering bastard
in front of her, she’d die of
fright.”
(Continued on page 23}


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” no. 20*
3ft. ft
%
vv.
First amongst the great Wool “Clippers”
With the passing of the gold boom and
the wool industry fast expanding, the
day of the great wool “Clippers” was
dawning those superb sailing ships
which, for nearly half a century, were
the couriers of our prosperity the
vessels of our trade. Of all these
beautiful craft, the toast of seamen the
world over, the proudest was the “Cutty
Sark”.
The Clipper, with its graceful, cut-
away hull lines, was an American
innovation, but the “Cutty Sark”
proved British designers had become
peerless in this skill. She was built at
Dumbarton in 1869 to the order of a
London shipowner, Captain John
Willis, and, in the words of one author-
ity on sailing daps, she was “touched
with the wand of genius and therefore
beyond all slavish imitation!”
Though of modest size (921 net tons)
the “Cutty Sark” was outstandingly
graceful as well as being immensely
staunch. Her mainmast towered more
than 150 feet above deck and she
could carry a spectacular press of
canvas in high winds. She came late to
the Australian trade —in 1872
having won a world reputation as a
tea-carrier from China, but had a
long, splendid career in our waters,
mainly as a wool clipper running to
Sydney. In this service she estab-
lished superiority over her great rival,
the gallant ‘Thermopylae”, and die
out-sailed the best of other shops
scores of times, frequently logging
better than 17 knots. Some earlier,
heavier Clippers achieved faster “day’s
runs” she was not a record-breaker
in that sense but her all-round
performances were unsurpassed, not-
ably m heavy weather. Besides that,
she was a romantic ship of almost
legendary exploit a lucky Clipper,
scudding through all manner of
ocean perils.
It is indeed fitting that the “Cutty
Sark” in her old age should have been
selected for preservation among the
British Empire’s relics of past mari-
time glories, as “the last, loveliest
Clipper”. She was retired from the
Australian trade in 1895, but her
extraordinary endurance was such that
thereafter, until as late as 1922, she
sailed under the Portuguese flag. In
that year, a storm drove her into
Falmouth where she was bought and
reconditioned by a noted ship-lover,
Captain W. H. Dowman. It was due
to the public interest fostered by him
and his family that this queenly old
ship, now under the care of the Cutty
Sark Preservation Society, lies today
at Greenwich in the Thames, in a
special dry-berth near the Royal Naval
College, where she will be rigged and
fitted-out as in her hey-day.
First in Quality First in Favour
* t f
O
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application
HF2O
How's Candy Going?
by
man
marshall
JOE was not particularly fond
of running. On those rare
occasions when he felt im-
pelled to move at top speed,
you could bet yodr life that
McPherson’s pet ram or a
cursing swaggie was pounding
along a few yards behind him.
Joe ba-a-ed at rams and cast
reflections on the drinking habits
of swagmen. With his head
poking out from behind a con-
venient tree, he would chant at
a passing sundowner,
Whiskers, Whiskers, fill your
gizzard ;
Till you're flat-out like a lizard.
When pursued by swagmen or
rams Joe ran with great resolu-
tion, his half-mast pants flapping
just below his knees, the chewed
tie of his sailor-jacket pressed
flat against his chest.
Normally, Joe favored sitting
down more than running. He
liked to sit on a. log with his
elbows on his knees, watching
our dogs sniffing through the
bush for rabbits.
Maybe I trained him that way.
An attack of polio had forced me
to walk on crutches, and Joe was
the sort of mate who naturally
adjusted himself to the limita-
tions of those he liked. He made
our walks through the bush a
series of journeys from one rest-
ing-place to another, a mode of
progress he came to accept as
his own choosing.
“You can’t beat sitting down
and just looking,” he sometimes
said when he felt I needed a
rest.
Joe looked at everything. An
ant was just as interesting to Joe
as an elephant to less imaginative
schoolmates.
“If an ant was as big as an
elephant, it’d belt hell out of
him,” he pronounced in one of
his more thoughtful moments.
■pjACH year Turalla, the small
township three miles from
the district in which we lived,
held a sports-meeting in a ten-
acre paddock behind the local
pub.
On that day the area around
the circular track was full of
buggies and gigs, their shafts
resting on the ground. The
fences were lined with tethered
horses drooping beneath their
harness, and men moved among
them talking about the prospect
of rain—“We could do with it
badly.”
At lunch-time the people sat
on the grass beside their buggies
and ate sandwiches and drank
tea they poured from billies.
It was a day when men and
women gossiped and children
ran shouting between the tents
and stalls.
Everyone attended the sports-
meeting. Not to attend would
have established you as an oddity
or as one who had a grudge
against members of the corn-
mittee.
When the first poster appeared
on the post-office wall the school-
children gathered round it in an
excited group. From then on
till sports-day their activities
were colored by the events it
described; the manner of those
who could run or ride bicycles
became more condescending, the
inferior position of those who
couldn’t, more marked.
Those boys who had bicycles
began talking in terms or racing
and rode furiously to school,
occasionally yelling to mates,
“Take your lap,” or “Open up
there, I’m coming through.”
The runners of the school
stood on marks with their finger-
tips touching the ground, spring-
ing away at the “Bang!”
and running on them toes in a
style they never adopted at other
times. They slowed down gradu-
ally, their arms outspread and
looked to see if the girls were
watching them.
Joe and I ignored the change
in our mates and adopted an
attitude we thought would
establish us as persons with long
sporting experience. We listened
with bored expressions to the
claims of school runners and
bike-riders, but after a day of
strain, Joe cracked and began
“toeing the mark,” and running
in swift dashes past unprepared
mates doing a “light canter”
round the schoolyard.
Joe attributed hi§ sudden
interest in sport to the influence
of his grandfather, a noted run-
ner of his day, but now dead and
buried in the Turalla cemetery.
“It’s cornin’ out in me,” Joe
explained. “I never been fond
of runnin’, but it’s in me blood
all right.”
Whatever the reason for Joe’s
transformation, it certainly kept
him busy. In the evenings he
took off his boots and jumped
logs and ran in wide circles with
his head tucked down like a gig
horse, his arms pumping.
He shouted instructions to
himself, acclaimed himself and
denounced or swore at imaginary
runners attempting to prevent
him winning.
I sat on the grass and watched
him, sometimes yelling advice or
shouting encouragement.
“Take your time; there’s no
ode near you,” I’d cry when Joe
went past me.
Joe never went far
away; he wanted an
audience.
“I’ll run anyone in the
world,” he shouted, look-
ing at the tops of the gums
and dancing on his toes
before me.
Someone must have accepted
the challenge, for Joe suddenly
cried, “Toe the mark,” and went
into a crouch. But the other
runners must have been crowding
him, for he began yelling, “Stand
back there! Gimme ropm! ”
This outburst couldn’t have
had any effect, for he immedi-
ately stood upright and growled,
“I’ll take you cm, you cow,” and
thereat he danced back like a
boxer, then came in swinging
wildly.
“Into him!” I yelled. “Let
him have it!”
This inspired Joe, who fought
aggressively, his tongue thrust
out, both eyes dosed. He was
set to give his opponent the
father of a hiding; but Andy
appeared.
Andy was Joe’s young brother,
a boy with an alert, watchful
expression, the result of a life
spent anticipating violence from
either Joe or me. He had not
yet started school and it was
Joe’s job to look after him. Joe
was not fond of looking after
Andy, though Andy was always
eager to bo placed in his charge.
“What do you want?” Joe
asked him, his hands still raised
in pugilistic fashion.
“Mum said you’ve got to look
after me,” said Andy, who was
watching us both warily, waiting
to see our reaction to his
announcement.
“All right,” said Joe after
hesitating a moment. “You stop
here with us and don’t go away.”
Andy relaxed. “Who’re y*
fightin’, Joe?” he asked.
Joe ignored the question.
. “I’ll race anyone in the world
for a hundred-pounds,” he cried.
“I’ll crawl anyone in the world
for a hundred-pounds,” I sang
out in answer, determined to be
in it. “I’ll crawl you or anyone.
I’m the champion crawler of
the world.”
I BEGAN crawling in swift
dashes on the grass.
Joe became interested. He
dropped to his hands and knees
and crawled after me, shouting,
“Here I come, the greatest
crawler who ever lived.”
Joe could crawl faster than me,
but his knees were soft and
sometimes he was tempted to
raise himself on to his toes.
“Keep your knees on the
ground,” I ordered.
I was tough in the knees,
having crawled a lot in steep
places where my crutches were
useless.
“Listen,” I suggested when
we were resting. “How about
us holding the crawling-cham-
pionship of the world, eh?”
o Continued on next page)
SUMMER EVENING
TASMANIA.
Lost in the dark of earth and stone,
crickets sing the praise of night
and silence gathers frail as dew
entrances morning with delight.
Beneath a thorn the crickets drill
and hang each branch with sounds of stars
and tired in the barren night
the astonished spirit hears
a song of praise, a tree of light;
daytime’s broken sense of drought:
living in a desolate land
we find a recess in the heart
where thorns flower with burning stars
and lost in tunnels crickets sing
and night discovers the arid day’s
a feather fallen from a wing.
VIVIAN SMITH.


By Appointment
to H.M. King
George VI
By Appointment
to H.M. King
Frederik IX
By Appointment
to H.M. King
Gu*taf V
gam
By Appointment
to H.M. the
Queen of the
Netherlands
Denmark’s Liqueur Delight since ISIS
All your guests will enjoy it
anytime!
Round off your dinner with Cherry
Heering—an old liqueur delight from
Denmark which all guests enjoy. Made
with unchanged formula for four
generations by the Heering family in
Copenhagen , . . and patronised by
royalty. Serve chilled.
A most distinctive
dessert. Try itl
CHERRY
S ■" :
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire •••«. £2 Foreign •••• £2/10/«
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Joe considered this proposal
with an air of dubiety.
“They never have crawling-
championships,” he said at last.
“It would be good to have the
running-championship of the
world but not the crawling.”
“That’s no good to me,” I
protested. “Where would I get,
running?”
“All right.” Joe quickly
changed his attitude. “We’re
champions, see, and now we’re
going to race for the champion-
ship of the world.”
Andy, who had been listening
with respect to what Joe had
been saying, ventured the
opinion that “crawling was
bkter than anything.”
“You’re too little to know
anything about crawling, Andy,”
Joe told him.
“He’s not tough enough,” I
added.
Joe and I had suddenly become
crawling-authorities with years
of experience behind us and it
was pleasant to be able to
patronise Andy.
We decided to hold the crawl-
ing-championship of the world
on the sports-ground the next
evening. In the centre of the
ground a circular, grassed track,
quarter-of-a-mile round, was
used for cycling and running
events and we decided to crawl
round this, quite certain that no
one else in the world had crawled
this far, a conviction that made
the race much more desirable.
We set off for home after
arranging to meet early next
evening, but before we parted Joe
drew me aside and whispered,
“I’ll sneak away frorn Andy
tomorrow. Be ready to Jet going
quick.”
Andy watched us whispering
together, his expression reveal-
ing his awareness of our plan-
ning.
“I’ll tell Mum if you sneak
away from me tomorrow,” he
warned us.
Joe expressed amazement at
such unwarranted suspicion.
“We wouldn’t sneak away
from you, Andy, would we,
Bill?”
“No,” I agreed with Joe.
“We’d take you anywhere.”
“Why, we were just talking
about taking you hunting one
day, weren’t we, Bill?”
I felt Joe was going too far.
“We don’t want to take him
hunting, Joe,” I complained.
Joe thrust his mouth near my
ear and hissed impatiently, “I’m
only telling him that; we gotta
kid to him.”
"OUT Joe’s plan didn’t work
out. When he joined me next
evening Andy was with him.
“You can’t toss Andy when
there’s anything on,” Joe ex-
plained morosely. The burden of
Andy was heavy on Joe.
Joe and I were both wearing
corduroy trousers that reached
below our knees and long, cotton
stockings that repeated washings
had bleached to a faded blue.
Our knees were thus protected,
but Andy wore short socks and
his trousers did not reach his
knees.
When we reached the sports-
ground we explained to him that
even if he were a much bigger
boy the fact that his knees were
bare would prevent him crawling
a quarter-of-a-mile for the
championship of the world, but
his expression remained stub-
born.
“I wanna crawl with you,” he
persisted.
“You’ll never shift Andy,
once he’s set on a thing.” Joe
spoke from long experience of
Andy.
While I surveyed the track Joe
paraded in circles crying, “Roll
up, tumble up for the crawling-
championship of the world!
What you like and what you
fancy! The more you ring, the
less you get! ”
In the course of Joe’s life he
had gathered quite a number of
cries proclaiming something or
other, most of them inappro-
priate to a crawling-champion-
ship of the world, but he pro-
ceeded to use them all on the
assumption, no doubt, that they
set the stage.
“Hurry, hurry, hurry!” he
cried. “Room for three more!
Back to the canvas, please! The
crawling-championship of the
world! Women and children
half-price! ”
Andy followed Joe around
with great interest. Andy ad-
mired Joe when Joe was address-
ing crowds.
I sat on the grass and took off
my boots. I crawled a little way,
delighting in the springy feel of
the grass beneath my knees.
“It’s good, Joe,” I cried.
“Come an’ feel the grass on your
knees. They’ll never get sore on
this.”
“The great race is about to
begin,” announced Joe. He sat
“Is this the pocket where you usually keep your money, dear ?"
down and pulled off his boots,
then asked, “What about Andy?”
“Hey, Andy!” I called. “You
walk beside us and tell us who’s
leading. You can yell out, ‘lnto
it! ’ and that sort of thing.”
“I want to crawl in the race
with you and Joe.”
“There you are! ” growled
Joe. “What did I tell you! He’s
set on crawling and he won’t go
ten-yards before he’ll be howling
for us to wait for him.”
“If you crawl with us, Andy,
we won’t wait for you,” I
warned him.
“I want to crawl with you,”
Andy persisted.
“Blow him!” exclaimed Joe
wrathfully.
“All right,” I said to Andy,
“you can come.” Then to Joe,
“As soon as he knocks up he’ll
get up and walk. We won’t
count him in the championship.
He can run in ahead of us if
he likes. It doesn’t matter.”
“All right,” Joe accepted the
position. “Now let’s all get on
the mark.”
Joe and I knelt side by side on
the track and Andy knelt down
just behind us.
“All set!” called Joe. “Bang!”
And the crawling-champion-
ship of the world had begun.
TT was a race with plenty of
time for conversation. We
crawled rather quickly for a
few yards until I remembered the
distance we had to go.
“Take your time!” I ordered
Joe. “Ease up. We haven’t got
to go fast till the finish.”
“Slow the field down,” called
Joe in a voice of authority, then
added in his natural tone, “How’s
Andy goin’?”
“How y’ goin’, Andy?” I
asked.
“Good,” said Andy, who was
crawling at our heels.
“The grass is good to crawl on,
isn’t it?” I said to Joe, “but I
reckon it’ll wear holes in the
knees of our socks.”
“Take your lap,” yelled Joe,
crawling ahead.
“Not too far!” I ordered him
anxiously.
“My knees are beginning to
feel it,” complained Joe, drop-
ping back. “How are yours?”
“Not bad,” I said doubtfully.
“I’m going well.”
“A quarter of a mile is a long
way,” pronounced Joe thought-
fully, then changed his tone to
question Andy. “How y’ goin’,
Andy?”
“Good.”
“There’s no doubt about
Andy,” Joe went on. “He’s game,
y* know. We should’ve made
him stay home, I reckon. This
crawling will knock hell out of
him. He’s too little for the
crawling-championship of the
world.”
Joe’s mention of the title in-
spired a fresh vigor in us.
“Keep it goin’!” yelled Joe.
“Open up in front! ”
“Take your lap!” I yelled and
crawled to the lead.
“By hell, Andy must be
sufferin’ now!” said Joe im-
patiently after a period of silence.
“How are y’, Andy?”
“Good.”
“Ar, he’d say that if he was
dying.” There were times when
Joe felt a great contempt for
Andy. “You can’t believe any-
thing he says.”
“I’m beginning to sweat,” I
complained.
“I’m sweatin’ bad myself,”
said Joe. “How’re your knees?”
“Crook.”
“Mine are hellishun crook. I
wonder how Andy’s knees are.
How’re y’r knees, Andy?”
“Good.”
“He’s got me beat,” muttered
Joe. “How far’ve we gone?”
“More than half-way, I
reckon.”
“Hell!”
“Andy must be about done
now,” I decided after we had
crawled some distance in silence.
“Yes, poor little beggar!” Joe
felt sorry for Andy. “The grass
is not as thick here as when we
started.”
“It’s not bad,” I said.
“My knees are about done,”
Joe confessed. “Andy will be
sufferin’ bad now. How’re y’,
Andy?”
“Good.”
“That kid can’t last much
longer,” Joe decided. “Anyway,
he can’t blame us. We told him
to keep out.”
“I haven’t got too much
strength left in me,” I admitted
at last, “but I’ll go the distance.”
“I’m sufferin’ hell in the
knees,” Joe complained.
“We’re nearly there,” I said.
“Now we got to get into it
properly.”
“The whips are out!” yelled
Joe.
“Come on, Tura 11 a! ” I
shouted. “Into it!”
WE were urging our aching
bodies to crawl still faster
when, on my left, a little figure
came bobbing along with nod-
ding head and quick-moving
knees.
“Hell! ” I gasped. “There goes
Andy! ”
“Strike me!” exclaimed Joe.
“What’s happened? Andy . . .”
Andy passed us with an eager
and excited face, looking straight
ahead to where my crutches were
lying on the grass. He drew fur-
ther and further away from us
until he reached the winning-
post, where he jumped to his feet
and called out triumphantly, “I
am the champion crawler of the
world! ”
“Blast him! ” said Joe, stagger-
ing to his feet. “An’ he is, too.”
He hurled some dry cow-dung
at Andy and shouted, “Get home
now or I’ll tan you when I get
you.”
Andy retreated to a safe dis-
tance.
Joe lay down beside me moan-
ing. “Oh, my knees!”, then
added with sudden strength,
“I’ll murder Andy when I get
home, barging into our race and
winning like that.”
“My cripes, he must be
tough!” I said, with a new
interest in Andy. “I reckon he’s
the toughest kid in Australia.”
“That’s right!” exclaimed Joe,
sitting up to look at Andy. “He
is; there’s no doubt about it.
Just look at him, there. There’s
nothing to him and the little
beggar goes and wins the crawl-
ing-championship of the world.”
We suddenly became enthusi-
astic over Andy. We praised him
to each other. We recalled feats
of endurance we had observed
in him.
“In all my life,” said Joe fer-
vently, “I’ve never saw such a
crawler as Andy.”
“He’s better than you or me,”
I said. “Better than anyone in
the world.”
We rose to our feet and went
over to Andy where he sat alone
on the grass. We felt enormously
proud of him. Joe put his arm
round Andy’s shoulders as we
walked home together. We
boasted about Andy for weeks.
“He’s a bloody marvel,” said
Joe. “An’ I’m not talkin’. ”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
rViUette Blades
—‘ >^i/&^ D,SPENSE R
It costs no more to buy Blue Gillette Blades
in a dispenser! Factory-sharp blades, that
give you the best shave you've ever had,
are unwrapped ready to slip from dispenser
to razor instantly, and there's a place for
used blades, too! You can use the dispenser
with any razor, but for superspeed shaving,
use witn the Gillette quick-action razor.
Superspeed Sets cost from as little as 9/6.
\n a t' aS ' 1
.7 • - -
AND...a place for used blades
m
m
'S.
* *
m
*
Ttotsi
f
n§*i
iss
q
Ct/At#
%
ORA**-
turns®
HO
fOR
m
m
■
S -
Gillette io
DISPENSER
BLADE
4'-
5-BLADE PACKET 2/-
10-BLADE PACKET 4/- -
QOS
“What utter nonsense is run-
ning in your head! ”
“You are a good woman with
pure flames about you. Medium-
istic, you are to Cocky, like me.
I’ll cast the spell here.”
“Mediumistic to a bird! . Come
off it, Bella. Wrap the little
fellow up and take him home to
his own nest. I’m sure you can
save him with love and care.”
“You think I’m a witch, don’t
you?”
“I think you have a gift with
birds.” She made me impatient,
and I wanted to be done with
this emotion of pity and helpless-
ness, so I told her off. “Chuck
aside your traffic in spells and
nonsense, Bella. Stick to train-
ing birds and keeping Angoras—
you could make a small fortune
with these two things and gain
the respect of living men and
Women. You’ll never gain it by
this enacting of devilish
tricks. . .”
She cackled with laughter, all
her softness gone. Then, taking
the bird from my hands again,
petted and crooned over it. It
raised its head from its snow-
white wing and muttered, “Cast
a spell! Cast a spell!”
T OOKING over its red head
as she raised it to her lips,
her face went haggard, black
circles came round her eyes and
mouth, and raising her eyebrows
she was like a picture of Satan.
“Look, Bella, you’d better go
home. It’s very late. I can’t
do anything for you.”
But she wasn’t heeding me,
only gazing into the darkness
beyond the window. Then I
heard the sharp taps of hooves
on the veranda and a rush of
water and made an effort to rise
and call the orderly, but I
couldn’t move. I felt as I had
in the house on the hill.
Looking at the bird, I saw that
it lay limp and was really dying,
and Isabella was muttering, “Get
off those filthy sacks, Dan . . .
, Go outside. . . Now up the out-
crop of rocks. . . Find your
catapult—it’s where you threw
it after you shot my bird. .
and my mind began to beat the
refrain of that poem:
Our souls sit close and silently
within,
And their own web from their
own entrails spin.
I struggled with myself. I
declared, “My soul is my own.
Let me go. Let me go.” It was
no use. I couldn’t move.
Isabella’s voice droned on:
“Run. .. Run down the rock .. .
Run. . . The ctevil is after you.”
Oh, Lord, let me free, I prayed,
and at last the power loosened
and I clutched Isabella by the
shoulders and shook her, but
even when her teeth rattled she
went on gargling in that horrible
way :
“Fall . . . Fall on your
face. . .”
Then in a different voice she
asked, “Where am I?”
“At the hospital; and you
ought to be ashamed of your-
self.”
“You shook me! It was
dangerous to shake me like that.”
The sounds of rain and the
sharp little hooves tapping the
veranda had ceased and the
bird lay limp in Bella’s cupped
hands, its scarlet forehead
tucked under its white satin
wing. It was dead.
“Oh, Bella.”
“I’ve scared you stiff. You do
think I’m a witch!”
“I hope you don’t think you’ve
made an impression on me with
this exhibition?” I countered.
“But I did. Sweat’s pouring
off your face.”
“The room is so close. . .”
“Is that why you hold your
arm over your eyes?”
I could stand no more. I
was afraid of her, afraid of the
dead bird.
Have you heard
That silence when the birds, are
dead ?
The key of the kitchen-door
turned and a man’s footsteps
sounded on the stone floor. Then
to my infinite relief the old
orderly called out, “I heard them
infernal goats on the veranda
and put the hose on them. Saw
the light and came over, Sister.
Is anything wrong?”
“Come round here, Orderly,”
I called.
I heard him stamp round, but
when he appeared, Isabella
Abdul disappeared into the dark-
ness, carrying her little dead
bird with her.
all those things happen? I
thought, when cook woke me
with tea next morning.
Everything seemed so normal
—the cat purring round her
deplorable legs, the dog barking
in the yard, the old orderly
whistlirig, trucks passing along
the highway; a bath and clean
uniform, a run round the old-
pensioners’ ward and a good
breakfast, then the doctor’s
daily visit, a minor operation and
morning-tea with him.
The doctor was just going
when a mob of natives appeared
round the spur of the hill from
their encampment. He called to
them to hurry, but they made no
haste, the old women giggling
as usual, the younger lifting their
babies more firmly on their hips.
We watched them with
patience till at last a younger
gin, not giggling, lugged a lad
forward. The boy’s thin black
legs holding him back made me
think of an obstinate foal. He
had a cap pulled over half his
face, held there with one hand.
In his other hand he grasped a
catapult.
He made to bolt, but the old
orderly knew his man and caught
him round the waist.
“What’s up with your scamp
this morning, Ellie?” the doctor
asked the woman who had
dragged him forward.
“Him hurtem eye, Doctor, j
Hurtem in night. Don’t know;
nuffin.”
“Take that cap away from
your face, Dan, and let’s have a i
look at the eye.”
The boy remained obstinate
and the orderly had to wrench
the cap from him. Then, as.
Doctor raised the eyelid from the;
bruised socket, we saw that he|
had no eye. /
MAD WOMAN PLAYING
WITH A CHILD
Around, around, all goes around:
the clumsy ball you throw at me,
a grey blue dove flies in my
hands;
around, around, my skirt flies
round
above my head, above my knees
and 1 am whirling round and
round
in silence, starlight, color’s
sound.
O how can eyes that look at me:
stars and flowers, fish’s eyes:
contain their frail worlds of hate
and joy and pain, each shapeless
year?
Around, around, my mind goes
round:
O child playing with my fear
come and wander in me now
for 1 am room and forest, beach,
and hive and cave, but always
room.
O dove fly into my nervous
hands.
I cannot hold the world iji me,
a child in a crippled womb.
The clumsy ball escapes my
hands:
but 1 have caught a dove, you
see, you see.
Contain and hold: 1 cannot hold
the seasons in a forest world,
the dove, the ball inside my hand,
the child's castle in the sand,
the miles of foam, the frantic sea.
The ball, the dove flies out from
me.
Around, around, I dance around,
my skirt flares over head and
knees.
I’m sick of playing dove and ball,
I’ll climb the light where houses
fall
and lock the sea up in a room .
which isn’t very far from here:
O stupid child laughing at my
fear.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


m
M
imisii
■
■
; Hfi 8 :
fcjbUS.
£H §'
:' vv;v, ; v'Sv.;: : xv: ' >'•
■
ililiiiiil
■Blits
1
llili
HS
IB
858
l
, /sm
: .v
@1
sv
%
1
■ ■•'
a
>%
V
o
a
Q\
o o
a
Be our guest-—listen to
Jack Davey in the
Ampol Show every
Friday at 8.
Mwldht MMI rat her,
\ fay Australian ?"
says JACK DAVEY
When you buy Ampol Fuel or lubricants you buy the finest
available to you—and you buy Australian.
All your petroleum needs . . . distillate, power kerosine, lighting
kerosine, petrol and a complete range of farm lubricants, are
available from a company that is owned and controlled by 35,000
Australian shareholders.
Buying Ampol means you are supporting your friends, your
neighbours, and may be helping to develop what could be Aus-
tralia’s greatest asset. . . our own self-contained oil industry.
You’ll find confidence in the company he represents and the pro-
ducts he sells, makes your local Ampol agent a great fellow to do
business with.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse “Jonathon
Married a Fairy,” by Myra Morris.
—6268.
Copies of the “Sydney Mail,” the
“Leader,” the “Australasian” and
the “Referee” of the 1920’s and
1930’5, or earlier. —6267.
Information Sought
The continual noise and vibration
of a commercial refrigerating-unit
disturbs the tenants of a block of
flats. The landlord ignores com-
plaints. What can be done ?
If the noise from the refrigerating-
unit under the flats is a continual
noise and causes continual vibration,
or even very frequent noise and
vibration, any tenant may go to the
Equity Court for an injunction to
restrain the operator of the
refrigerating-unit from using it in
its present state. The landlord is
not bound to take any steps, nor
(unless he is one of the occupiers) is
there any ground on his part for
doing so. It will be necessary, if
such steps are to be taken, for you
to see a solicitor, who will be able
to give you fuller advice about the
matter.
* * * *
List of winners of the Australian
singles tennis-title since World War I ?
No competition 1916-18; 1919,
A. R. F. Kingscote; 1920, P. O’Hara
Wood; 1921, R. H. Gemmell; 1922,
J. O. Anderson; 1923, P. O’Hara
Wood; 1924 and 1925, J. O. Ander-
son ; 1926, J. B. Hawkes; 1927, G. L.
Patterson; 1928, J. Borotra; 1929,
J. C. Gregory; 1930, E. F. Moon;
1931-32-33, J. H. Crawford; 1934,
F. J. Perry; 1935, J. H. Crawford;
1936, A. K. Quist; 1937, V. B.
McGrath; 1938, J. D. Budge; 1939,
J. E. Bromwich; 1940, A. K. Quist;
1941-45, no competition; 1946, J. E.
Bromwich; 1947, D. Pails; 1948,
A. K. Quist; 1949 and 1950, F.
Sedgman; 1951, R. Savitt; 1952, K.
McGregor; 1953, K. Rosewall; 1954,
M. G. Rose; 1955, K. Rosewall;
1956, L. Hoad.
* * * *
(1) What were the circumstances of
R. D. Meagher and the Dean case ?
(2) Was Meagher later an M.P. ?
(1) In 1895 Meagher, a 29-year-old
solicitor well known as a criminal
advocate, defended one George Dean,
whom he thought innocent, on a
charge of poisoning his wife. Dean
was found guilty, with Meagher con-
tending that the Crown’s case had
been weak and the trial a travesty
of justice. Sections of the press and
public demanded a royal commission,
which found not that Dean was
innocent, but that there was insuffi-
cient evidence to convict him. (Dean
was later given a long sentence for
perjury.) Meagher was not instru-
mental in seeking the royal commis-
sion, but when, later the same year,
he stood for the N.S.W. Parliament
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
accused him of mischief in connec-
tion with it and the Dean case gen-
erally. Meagher approached Sir
Julian Salomons, Q.C., M.L.C., as
a client, to see whether the paper was
guilty of libel, and confided to him
as a professional secret that Dean
after his trial had admitted his guilt
to him. Salomons divulged
Meagher’s admission, and on June 1,
1896, Meagher was struck off the
roll of solicitors “for very serious
and gross misconduct.” (Another
version of the approach to Salomons,
denied by Meagher, was that he had
boasted to him at a chance encounter
of getting a guilty man released.)
In May, 1900, Meagher applied to be
restored to the roll, but was refused;
he applied again in 1902, in 1904 and
several times over the years, being
refused each time, till finally, in
Dec., 1920, the N.S.W. Parliament
passed special legislation which
allowed him to practise as attorney
and advocate. (The Bulletin, April
13, 1895, criticised the handling of
Dean’s trial, and on Nov. 1, 1895,
printed a special 20-page number on
the history of the case. A second
edition Bringing the case up to date
was printed in December that year.)
(2) In July, 1895, Meagher entered
the N.S.W. Parliament but resigned
when he became the centre of the
legal storm. He re-entered Parliament
in 1898, and lost his seat in 1917
when he supported conscription (he
was a member of the Labor party);
he was appointed to the N.S.W. Leg.
Council the same year. He was
Chairman of Committees and Deputy
Speaker, 1910-13,' Speaker, 1913-17,
and first Labor Lord Mayor of
Sydney, 1916-17. He died on Sept.
17, 1931.
* * * *
What was the “classic row v
between Gluck and Piccinni men-
tioned in S. W. Keough’s article
(B. 25 /1 / ’56) ?
Actually, the feud was between
followers of the respective composers.
After Piccinni had successfully pro-
duct five operas in Naples and six in
Rome (from 1755-71), the Roman
public switched its support to a
lesser composer, Anfossi, whose
followers hissed one of Piccinni’s
works off the stage. So, in 1776,
Piccinni went to Paris. Here he met
opposition from Gluck’s partisans.
Piccinni, as director of an Italian
company at the Opera, brought out
four operas for Italian cast and three
for the French stage. His work was
on traditional lines, apart from the
expanded finales of the acts, whereas
Gluck had streamlined opera by
ridding it of much artificiality. The
“classic row” reached a climax when
the director of the Opera commis-
sioned each to write a separate
“Iphigenie en Tauride.” Piccinni lost
time through dissatisfaction with the
text; Gluck’s version, produced first
(1779), completely overshadowed
Piccinni’s setting, which appeared in
Jan., 1781. Despite the feudists,
Piccinni greatly admired Gluck, and
subsequently tried to establish an
annual memorial celebration for him.
* * * *
Books dealing with the history of
Norway ?
This list is printed in Everyman s
Encyclopedia: Norges Historie, by
J. E. W. Sars (1899); Norway, by
H. H. Boyesen (1900); Scandinavia:
a Political History of Denmark,
Norway and Sweden 1515-1900
(1905); Heimskringla, by S. Sturla-
son (1915 and 1930—included in
Everyman’s Library); Norway, by G.
Gathorne Hardy (1925); History of
the Norwegian People, by K. Gjerset
(1932); The Invasion of Norway, by
H. K. Lehmkuhl (1940), also his
Hitler Attacks Norway (1943);
Norway in World History, by W.
Keilhan (1944); and A History of
Norway, by K. Larsen (1949). See
also articles in Everyman’s Encyclo-
pedia, Encyclopedia Britannica,
Chambers’ Encyclopedia, etc.
Brief Answers
H.S.: For the north of Queensland,
Italian would, as you suggest, be the
best language. In N.S.W. it would
depend on the area; large groups of
the one nationality are often gathered
around one area. However, since
most of the migrants who were in
displaced-persons’ camps in Germany
learnt to speak German as a basic
language, it would be advisable to
learn German M.P.: (1) Roughly,
it can be said that the drag varies as
the square (not the cube) of the
velocity. The horsepower needed to
propel the boat is the speed multi-
plied by the drag, so that it varies
by the cube. This applies when the
Reynolds number is large—i.e., when
the product speed x length is not too
small. Even a model a foot long at
1 m.p.h. would give a sufficiently
high Reynolds number for the
application of this rule. It does not
give great accuracy: it might be
better, for instance, to say that D
varies as V 1-8 or V 1-9; however,
this makes a more complicated
calculation and gives much the same
answer. Only exceptions to the rule
are those fast motorboats that lift
out of the water and “plane.” (2)
In all racing-shells the skin-friction
is greater than the drag—in an eight,
perhaps 80-90 p.c., and in a sculling-
boat, perhaps 70 p.c. The remainder
of the drag may be caused by the
making of waves, an effect which is
more prominent in short boats, such
as tub-fours... .N.L.U.: Following
are the Inter-Dominion winners and
their drivers since its inception:
1936 (Perth), Messrs. H. F. Rudd
and R. Challis’s blk.m. Evicus, Fred
Holmes; 1937 (Adelaide), Mr. A. B.
Coram’s b.g. Dan’s Son, B. Coram;
1938 (Christchurch), Mrs. D. R.
Revell’s ch.m. Parisienne, R. B.
Berry; 1939 (Launceston), Mr. C. J.
McCarthy’s b.h. Springfield Globe,
W. A. O’Shea; 1940 (Perth), Mrs. A.
Barnes’s br.h. Logan Derby, J.
Stamford; 1947 (Perth), Mrs. F. C.
Eley’s blk.m. Bandbox, L. Moriarty;
1948 (Auckland), Mrs. M: A.
Haslett’s b.h. Emulous, W. K.
Tatterson; 1949 (Adelaide), Mr. G. B.
and Mrs. M, R. Elliott’s blk.g. Single
Direct, E. N. Kennerley; 1950 (Mel-
bourne), Mr. J. M. Bain’s b.g.
Captain Sandy, J. D. Watts; 1951
(Christchurch), Messrs. C. Johnston
and M. Jenkins’s b.g. Vedette, M.
Holmes; 1952 (Sydney), Mr. F. T.
Hanlon’s b.h. Avian Derby, D.
Wilson; 1953 (Perth),. Mr. D. J.
Nolan’s b.g. Captain Sandy, R.
Pollack; 1954 (Adelaide), Mr. E.
Nevard’s b.h. Tennessee Sky, F.
Kersley; 1955 (Auckland), Mr. M.
McTigue’s br.g. Tactician, M.
McTigue T.T.: (1) Tuck-pointing:
Joints to be racked-out to a depth of
fin. and filled with colored mortar
to match bricks. A suitable mortar-
mixture for filling should be similar
to the mixture used for the existing
brickwork, or otherwise should con-
sist of one part cement, two parts
lime, eight to nine parts clean fine
sand, and coloring oxide as required.
Joints should be damped with water
before the filling is applied. The
white-raised joint-mixture should
consist of one part lime-putty and
one part very fine and clean sand.
Only enough water should be used
to bring the mixture to a medium
putty-consistency. (2) Tools used
for applying white putty: chalk-line,
used for marking long-joint positions ;
bevelled straight-edge (about 2ft. 6in.
long and 3fin. wide, with packing-
strips fixed to back to keep the
straight-edge fin. clear of brick-wall),
used as guide during application of
putty; flat jointing-tool, with blade
sin. or 6in. long and of thickness to
suit required size of joint; French-
man, or trimming-knife, used with
straight-edge to cut joints to even
width. (3) Tuck-pointing requires
considerable skill; practice is needed
before an attempt is made on face-
work H.S.T.: Apparently not
much demand for copies of Army
magazine “Salt.” Tyrrell’s advise
that they have many copies (at 6d.
each), and they are not seeking
additional copies B.O.: A review
of P. A. Yeomans’s The Keyline
Plan appeared in the “Man on the
Land” pages of July 21, 1954. Then,
in the same pages appeared: E. O.
Schlunke’s criticism, Sept. 29, 1954;
P. A. Yeomans’s reply, Dec. 15,
1954; Schlunke’s reply, Jan. 5, 1955 ;
Yeomans’s counter, Jan. 26, 1955 ;
and an article, “Practical Results of
Keyline,” by Yeomans, on March 23,
1955. Also, a leader-article, “The
Keyline Foundation,” appeared in the
issue of Sept. 28, 1955... .G.H.:
Jack Carroll was a southpaw.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on ail
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.D.L.: Why don’t we like it?
We do, but not enough J.M.:
That’s a first draft for a poem; now
it needs rhyming J.M.: Suitable
for a Burns nicht P.L.: “The sun
doth end its daily lease.” Doth it,
indeed? Anon: Anon, anon, sir.
Indian tales probably off our beat
but will gladly inspect one as a
sample M.E.: You’lT never
improve until you can see a gumtree
for yourself and not as the “sentinel”
as which 58,249 other poets have
seen it before you... .Barney: Very
beautiful, but the Religious Editor
fainted... .M.W.: Pity you can’t do
better with that wild country. Try
writing prose paragraphs about it.
R.T.: “No dirty cracks in
‘Answers.’ ” How you do wrong us.
S.H.: Never end a poem in
heaven or you’ll never get there....
T.M.G.: Nothing new in your
breezes and treeses and seases....
8.E.: Lofty sentiments in flat verse.
P.R.C.: A little too jerky, a
little too jaunty V.C.8.: A nice
bit of weather in the central stanzas;
too many words surrounding them.
H.8.8.: It is our firm belief that
all the workers —except ourselves —
are today grossly overpaid. But you
moan so melodiously that we can’t
resist you:
GLASS WARFARE.
When the morning, sun with fire
Lights the tall cathedral spire,
Employers join their jewelled hands
To sanctify their cruel demands.
But when dusk concludes the day,
The worker with his meagre pay
Reverently attends the pub,
To gather strength to stand the rub.
Social justice, overdue,
Will find the worker in the pew,
While employers—o ’twere sooner! —
Touch the Poor Box for a schooner.
.... P.F.: We doubt if you’ll reform
either mankihd or the motor-trade,
but here you go:—
TOMORROW’S CAR
(on looking through American car ads.).
Are you the man you could be?
Is your head held high and proud?
Are you doing all you should be?
Do you tower over the crowd?
Are you a real go-getter
And proud to show ’em you are?
Do you like to go one better?
You are the man for Tomorrow’s Oar.
.... V.R.: Four lines of dread,
then:
Television is on the way, .
For some it will be a very sad day.
Imagine the woman who lectures on diet,
Spreading her huge frame over the chair
in a riot.


An Essay on Communist Strikes
Comrade Thorntons Career
By M. H. ELLIS
THE judgment of the Indus-
trial Commission of New
South Wales Messrs,
Justice De Baun, McKeon
and Beattie—on Ernest Thorn-
ton’s application to secure
admission to the Federated
Ironworkers’ Association of
Australia, N.S.W. Division, has
an interest which reaches beyond
both Mr. Thornton’s particular
case and the Ironworkers’ policy,
It illuminates Communist
method, explains the extent to
which Communism dominates
any union which has a Com-
munist head, and makes it clear
where the strikes come from —
and why.
For nearly two decades the
Federated Ironworkers was a
union very much susceptible to
the influence of Communism—
in fact, completely dominated
by it. For a matter of 15 years
Comrade Ernie Thornton was
its chief commissar.
Thornton came to Australia
under the auspices of the Big
Brother Movement in 1922 at
the aop of 17 Mr T nnp hai
tne age or 1/. Mr. Fang nas
purported to write Thornton’s
early-Australian biography, and
his version of Thornton’s activi-
ties is in no way flattering. He
did not sue Mr Lang.
He performed various types
of laboring work in N. S. Wales
and Victoria.” Toward the end
of the 1920-s he was known in
small-time Communist agitation
of a non-party nature, and in
1930 he became a member of
the Federated Ironworkers in
Victoria. A year later he was
openly a member of the Com-
munist party; in 1933 he was
expelled as a deviationist, very
much as J. S. Garden was
occasionally expelled to do some
particular job which, apparently,
he could not very well do while
an open Communist, or which
could perhaps be done more
successfully if somebody or
other felt that he had quarrelled
with the party.
A year after he had joined
the Ironworkers Thornton was
made a temporary organiser of
the Victorian branch, a position
he could have obtained only
with some influence behind him
—an influence that was not very
hard to pinpoint. Nor was it
hard to pinpoint the reason why
he had been so ostentatiously
expelled from the Communist
party. There were still con-
servative elements in the Iron-
workers’ Union, which, under
the plan formulated by Losovsky
in 1933-34 and brought home
from Moscow by Sharkey, along
with Dmitrov’s 1935 Comintern
Conference theses, was being
made-over into a Communist
key-union in anticipation of the
world war which Moscow was
doing its best to foment and
expected shortly to break-out.
The explosion between the
Communists and Comrade
Thornton seemed altogether too
loud and passionate to be con-
sistent with the abject servility
with which Comrade Thornton
apologised to the Communist
hierarchy for his “errors” in
dialectic and otherwise, or with
the warm and adulatory affec-
tion with which he was re-
ushered into the party.
One was prone to wonder,
watching the quarrel and the
touching reconciliation, whether
the course of events was in any
way connected with the progress
which Mr. Thornton made in
the Ironworkers’ Union during
that period. At the end of 1934
he had reached the stage at
which he was elected an official
of the Ironworkers, supported
both by the sardonically-
grinning Left and a punch-drunk
section of the bewildered Right.
Safely ensconced, he became,
within a few months in 1935, a
member of the Central Commit-
tee of the Communist party,
with such suddenness that it
seemed as if some hidden force
had catapulted him there. He
had been a party member less
than four years, during which he
was “expelled.”
With equal and forceful
suddenness he was hurled into
the Federal secretaryship (later
called national secretaryship) of
the Ironworkers, of which he
had held a membership-card for
five years. It was as if Lincoln
had achieved the distance
between ' log-cabin and White
House in a single stride. And
from the national secretaryship
nothing could shift him until the
Menzies Government achieved
power at the end of 1949 and
amended the Arbitration Act in
such a way that the members of
the union, and not the Com-
munist party, were able to
control the annual elections.
Thornton's War
During the years after Mr.
Thornton was elected to the
position of ruler of the Iron-
workers —and he was the ruler,
for he soon established (with
the help of his friends) a set of
rules which enabled him to be a
dictator, even to the point of
rejecting on his own say-so
applicants for union membership
—the Communist party consoli-
dated its ascendancy both over
industry and over the union
movement.
It was during 1940, after the
war had begun, that it dawned
on the Government and the
public that the Communists had
captured the A.C.T.U. and the
N. S. Wales and some other
Trades and Labor Councils, and
that the N. S. Wales Labor party,
headed by Mr. McKell, was
struggling in the grasp of a Red
octopus.
The A.L.P. had been infil-
trated to such an extent that the
combined - Federal and State
Executives of the A.L.P.
adopted plans to oppose con-
scription, compulsory service in
Australia and the sending of
troops abroad, and to “defeat
profiteering by the warmongers.”
All these objectives had been
laid down for them by a Com-
intern instruction to the C.P.
These were the days when
Messrs. E. J. Ward, Healy (of
the Watersiders) and Sharkey
and Dixon (of the Communist
party) all combined to attack
recruiting for the A.I.F. and, in
the same argot as the Comintern,
called for the “defeat of the
entire war-schemes of the
Fascist-like Menzies Govern-
ment.”
At that stage, at the end of
the 1940 N. S. Wales A.L.P.
conference, the War and
Defence Committee of the
N. S. Wales branch consisted of
Messrs. J. R. Hughes (whom the
Petrov Commission last year
discovered tangled-up intimately
with the designs of the M.V.D.
espionage-agencies in Australia),
Lloyd Ross and Gollan —all
prominent in the Communist
party. These drafted the
infamous “Hands off Russia”
resolution.
For most of this period
Thornton showed-up little in
political circles. His seemed to
be the duty of Director-General
of War-production Sabotage.
In the months immediately
preceding the advent of the
Federal Labor Government at
the end of 1941 he had been
using the internment of the
Communist officials Ratliff and
Thomas —two active saboteurs
of 1940 vintage—as his excuse
for stopping war-factories. Dr.
Evatt and Garden were also
working in the cause of the two
seditionists, who had been
caught in a secluded hang-out
at Como, near Sydney, planning
the job of “turning every fac-
tory, every mine, every work-
shop into a fortress of revolu-
tion” ; organising preliminary
infiltrations with a view to
something in the future “bigger
in time and space.”
Thornton’s views were those
of the Communist party, and
he expressed them openly in the
annual report of the Federated
Ironworkers in 1942:
No worker can afford to be a
pacifist Arms were used by work-
ing men in the most important
historical struggle that this country
has known, the struggle at the
Eureka Stockade, and arms will
probably be used by workers in this
country again.
He held that:
My viewpoint is that Australia
could be at least as good a country
as the Soviet Union, provided it had
a Government of similar character
to that of the Soviet Government.
In the Domain on June 29,
1941, he had told his hearers that
those who placed Britain and
Australia before Russia were
menacing the Australian war-
effort. Yet in 1943 he became
a member of the then Prime
Minister’s trade-union advisory
panel, most of whose members
were Communist committeemen.
World Tourist
In 1944 Mr. Thornton was sent
abroad to represent Australian
Labor at the World Trade Union
Congress in London.
Barely had Mr. Thornton
returned from his world-tour
than —at the expense of the Aus-
tralian taxpayer —he was sent
abroad again in 1945 to the
Paris conference, along with
his friends A. E. Monk, of the
A.C.T.U., and Hon. R. A. King,
the ex-Communist secretary of
the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, who was a pillar of the
A.L.P.
There was a majority against
him in the Trades and Labor
Council at the ballot held to
elect a delegate, but when Mr.
Thornton found that he had
been defeated the matter was
quickly fixed by the Communist
hierarchy in command of the
council. Another election was
staged, and gave the proper
result, with the happy climax
that a joint A.L.P.-Communist
dinner was held to farewell the
parting delegate, the principal
speakers being Messrs. J. B.
Miles, general-secretary of the
Communist party, and Jock
Stewart, general-secretary of the
N. S. Wales branch of the
A.L.P.
When some squeamish Labor
people protested against Thorn-
ton’s representing the Labor
movement they were reproved
by the official organ of the
A.L.P., the “Standard” (June
22, 1945), then edited by Mr.
Leslie Haylen, now M.P. for
Parkes:
The Labor movement has no sym-
pathy with nor will it tolerate any
move to stifle Thornton because in
stifling him the Labor movement is
being stifled Thornton’s politics
are of no importance.
And so Mr. Thornton went,
and for four years more
remained impregnable; imper-
vious to all puny attempts to
obtain from him an adequate
balance - sheet of the Feder-
ated Ironworkers’ Association’s
operations; dictating who
should join the union and who
should not; operating in the
Central Committee of the Com-
munist party and the A.C.T.U.;
laughing in the faces of those
who offered to prove that the
ballots for the officers of the
Ironworkers were faked and
ballot-papers forged in order to
keep the Communists in control.
All attempts to persuade the
Labor Government to take effec-
tive means to restore the control
of these unions to the members
failed during the period in which
Dr. Evatt was Attorney-
General. Thornton, Healy,
Elliott V. Elliott, Donald Thom-
son (of the Building Workers)
and Brown (of the A.R.U.) all
wormed their way more deeply
into the core of industrial Labor
and Australian industry, pro-
moting the interests of Russia
and developing the local tentacles
of the Communist-run World
Federation of Trades Unions,
to which Moscow was far more
than a spiritual home.
During all this period these
people were treated with respect
by the Government of the day,
consulted, their speeches
reported with some deference by
the capitalist press (one or two
incidents suggested that
reporters not prepared to play
the game were closed-off from
news of the great unions and
rendered valueless to their
papers as industrial news-
getters).
Eventually the Great Com-
munist Picnic came to an end.
Early in 1950 it became obvious
that the game was up in the
Ironworkers’ Federation. Faced
with accusations of fraud and
fabrication of ballot-papers, Mr.
Thornton did not pause to
defend his reputation. He fled
to Peking, where, during three
years, envious visiting comrades
saw him in his gleaming black
limousine (with driver), mark of
the commissar—a high panjan-
drum of the Asian-Australasian
Bureau of the Communist World
Federation of Trades Unions.
Forged Ballot
This was the same Thornton
of whom Mr. Justice Dunphy
wrote (in giving judgment that
the Ironworkers’ election in
1949 had been irregular):
It is obvious that the forgery was
of the greatest benefit to Ernest
Thornton in the national ballot.
Alone of all the national candidates,
he sorely needed 2000 votes to beat
Laurence Short, and he got them
from a tainted source and by foul
means. It is stretching one’s
credulity beyond all limits to even
attempt to believe that this scheme
was implemented without the know-
ledge or consent of the primary
beneficiary. Unfortunately Thomton
left the country whilst this inquiry
was still in its preliminary stages,
otherwise he would have been
compelled to testify.
Mr. Thornton called this “a
scandalous statement,” but he
did not evacuate his paid job in
the Liaison Bureau of the
W.F.T.U. until October, 1953.
When he first returned —in
August, 1953 on a short
“holiday” visit, he spent most of
the time closeted with the Aus-
tralian Communist Party. It
seemed that he had come to see
whether everything had blown
over, and, finding that it had, he
returned permanently to the
Commonwealth in December,
1953.
He had jobs in the ironwork-
ing-industry for a couple of
short periods—till identified—
but mainly he seemed to be
engaged on Communist work.
He organised for the Communist
party in Balmain. He stood as
a Communist candidate in the
1954 and 1955 Federal elections.
It was obvious from his associa-
tions and from the acceptance
of his contributions to the
“Communist Review,” the offi-
cial theoretical journal of the
party, that he was still a big fish
in Communism.
The cost of his extensive
movements on behalf of the
party was certainly being found.
When he decided to try to
force his way back into the
Federated Ironworkers in
August last year he obviously
had the full backing of the
Communist party, which was
rebuilding the old hierarchy
which had formerly controlled
Australian trade-unionism.
He was so important that the
party brought from Melbourne
E. F. Hill—a member of the
Central Committee, one of the
inner-circle of the movement
and second onlym importance
to onarkey, uixon anu one o
two others—to fight as counsel
for him before the Industrial
Commission, before which the
Federated Ironworkers were
opposing his right to join the
union on the grounds (1) that
the applicant was not a person
who by nature or ms occupation
was of the class or employment
of which the union Was COn-
stituted, (2) that he was not
person not# of general ba
character,
° n "Reputation "
■ . f , Tndustria i
. ~5 btl ° n a! ioi?«
Arb.hation Act, 1940-55, m
par * proVldeS : “
occuStioa* ‘o?
e n r tj of the class p of which
a trade _ un i on constituted, and who
are not 0 f general bad character,
the union S lo
remain members thereof and. enjoy
ad advantages of membership so
long as they shall comply with the
rul “ of the umon ;
It was around this subsection,
and particularly around the
issue of character, as affected
by the events of Comrade
Thornton’s history, that the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commis-
sion made itS findings * . . .
These were particularly
interesting in view of the extent
to which they affect a union’s
right to exclude Communists
with well-defined records, and
particularly as they affect a
large number of other persons
in udion positions who have
records similar to Thornton s.
The matter was argued legally
at . * reat len S th - since the sub-
missions of the umon were
entirely novel. The arguments
were set out by . tbe , 9 onir^ is "
sioners at length m their jiidg-
ment, along with the relevant
quotations from the evidence
and standing authorities,
They found, in brief, that a
man’s character m a legal sense
might be taken to be “the
general inference supposed to
arise from the hearing of a
number of separate and specific
statements in favor or against
a party” ; and they added that
they thought that “a tribunal
faced with the task of ascertain-
ing a man’s general reputation
is entitled to pay regard to his
proved conduct in public affairs,
his public utterances and what
is publicly said about him.”
They held that this must be
so, “because these matters must
have an effect on his reputation,
and the tribunal is entitled to
apply its knowledge of the
standards of conduct generally
regarded as proper by the com-
munity and of the ' probable
conclusions the community
would draw from his utterances
and actions in public affairs.”
Thornton gave evidence on
his own behalf. He gave his
own version of his career. He
was cross-examined at length—
Mr. W. J. Shand, Q.C., and Mr.
Wootten appeared for the
(Continued on page 34)


S 3
%
ED
mm
cmq
REO° trade mark
FOLDING
ARMCHAIR
TABLE
What every home has wanted for years —you just sit at ease
in your favourite armchair and read or work in comfort!
Homework becomes a pleasure for all the family.
The "Lap-tab” is made of heavy gauge sheet steel, sprayed
with beige felt, giving a non-skid surface. Two deep channels
are provided for pens and pencils. Detachable ash trays are
conveniently placed at either side. Setting up and folding
away operations take only a few seconds.
An absolute “must” for Students, Invalids and all who
take work home or desire to be fully relaxed when
reading, writing, etc.
Money-back Guarantee Offer!
• Post the attached coupon together
with £4/17/6, and we will deliver to
you a “Lap-tab” post free. If not satis-
fied within one week’s trial, return to
us and your money will be refunded
in full.
Ml
s* s*
m\
/
To BARRY S. MOORE PTY. LTD.,
53 Walker St., North Sydney, NAW.
Please send me a “Lap-tab” post free. I enclose cheque for
£4/17/6.
NAME
ADDRESS
Elf Ml-SRmSH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
m
Prices from
27/6 to 90/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
COIVftVITCVIIV ft t. iT 5. %0 » I•§
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Apple Bay has struck the right
form to give him a chance of
winning his third successive race
by taking the Oakleigh Plate
(5| furlongs ; £3000), chief event/
at Caulfield next Saturday. He
is selected to win from Copper
Year and Matrice.
The Oakleigh, one of the most
important sprint-events on Aus-
tralia’s Turf Calendar, was first
won (in 1884) by Malua, carry-
ing 9.7. Malua was one of the
most versatile gallopers to have
worn a bridle. He won the
1884 Melbourne Cup with 9.9 —
and that year’s Newmarket with
8.7! Two years later he was
successful in the Australian Cup
with 9.9, and as an eight-year-
old (in 1886) he won the Grand
National Hurdle with 11.7.
Malua took 1.11 to cover the
5£ furlongs of his Oakleigh
Plate; present record, 1.4, was
made two years ago by Bird-
wood.
Copper Year was having his
first Melbourne start when he
won the First Woodlands Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. He seems a sprinter above
ordinary. He has won 12 races
from 22 starts, and has earned
£9225 in stakes. Arlunya,
runner-up to Copper Year, is to
be reserved for the A.J.C. St.
Leger, which at stage doesn’t
look like being a hard race to
win. Copper Year is a five-
year-old horse by Copper Plate
(Fr.) from Golden Year, by
Duke John (imp.) from Golden
Days by King of Mirth.
Glitzern, winner of the
Alister Clark Stakes, is by
Empyrean (imp.) from Lumi-
nant, and is raced by E. R. Cres-
wick and trained by Fred Hoy-
sted. He pleased the stable to
such degree that he will be set
for the V.R.C. and the A.J.C.
St. Legers.
Despite the downpour, Sydney
Turf Club had a crowd of
18,000 for its meeting at Canter-
bury last Saturday. Three of
the seven races were won by
favorites, and the only real
surprise-result was Miss High
Caste in the Campsie Stakes (11
furlongs, ,30yds.). Though she
hadn’t won a race for about 20
months, some racegoers evi-
dently remembered she had
then been successful on a heavy
track at Randwick at 10
furlongs, and she firmed from
33 to 1 to 14’s. A five-year-
old daughter of High Caste,
who was good on similar ground
and won 35 races for more than
£35,000 in stakemoney, the
mare is stoutly built, and
engagement of stable apprentice
Laurie Stephenson reduced her
weight by 71b. to 7.11. Stephen-
son rode a copybook race.
Singing Duke must be one of
the best “swimmers” among
Sydney’s racehorses: his (con-
servative) 15-lengths’ win in the
Canterbury Second Ashbury
Stakes was the easiest seen in
the metropolitan area in years.
He had won only one event
previously—at Rosehill several
months ago—but recent form
indicated he was near the money,
and he started a warm favorite.
A half-brother to So Bright and
So Happy, he comes from a
family-line which had shown
ability on wet tracks. Back in
his pedigree figures Anna
Carlovna, a brilliant mare who
twice won the Eclipse Stakes.
Raced by J. P. Crennan and
Sid White and trained by E. D.
Lawson, five-year-old Stockade
(imp.) gelding Compound
parted favorite and ran home an
easy winner in Canterbury’s
Frank Underwood Cup. He won
at Randwick in the spring and
on Saturday was capably handled
by Fred Hickey, who brought
him through the waterlogged
track in fine style. Compound is
to be set for the Doncaster, in
which he has 8.3, or lib. more
than he handled at Canterbury.
Hickey weighed-in l|lb. over his
B.2—mud and water collected on
the way round. J. Thompson, on
Cup runner-up Grand Charles,
was 4|lb. heavier on returning to
scale. It was an important day
for Hickey brothers Fred and
Jim, as each rode a double, Fred
at Canterbury and Jim at New-
castle, and, moreover, it was
Fred’s birthday.
Two-year-old colt Zaheida
hasn’t done much racing, but he
has won two races from his last
three starts, both at Canterbury.
He had an easy task in the six-
furlong event for that age-group
in notching his latest win, easily
handling the soft going. His sire,
Bois de Rose (imp.), has done
fairly well at the stud, but his
many winners have scored
mostly in moderate events. Idle-
wild, however, won the Rosehill
Guineas.
Reg Cook —brother of Bill,
who rode Star Cherry to victory
in a Canterbury Park Maiden for
two-year-old fillies trains the
promising youngster at Rand-
wick and is hopeful she will turn-
out as good as some of her well-
performed English relatives.
They include Up -to - Date,
Poisoned Arrow, Bebe Grande,
and Wansfell (King Emperor’s
Cup in India). Star Cherry,
another of the successful Star
Kingdoms, is from Pink Cherry
(imp.) by Papyrus.
Go Lightly went fast enough
at Canterbury Park to win a
Maiden for two-year-old fillies
and contribute £459 towards her
cost 3100gns. at the New
Zealand sales in January, 1955.
The filly sweated freely before
going to the starting-gates, but
J. Thompson brought her with
“Face up to it, mate!”
a brilliant run over the final
stages, and she won impressively.
RaCed by Sir James and J. C.
Fletcher, of Alton Lodge stud
(N.Z.), she was bred by R. H. W.
Holden, of Poukawa. The
promising filly is by Gabador
from Sagati (imp.), who was
bred and raced by the Aga Khan
and is a daughter of Turkhan
and Seed by Solario.
* * *
With gaily-painted entrance-
gates, flags, four bands bleating
tunes at one another, a proces-
sion of past and present in
harness-racing styles (from a
Ben Hur-type chariot) Harold
Park went gay on the opening
night of its Inter-Dominion
Carnival.
A dandy from the south,
Gentleman John, surprised
everyone (his trainer included)
by the way he led throughout
the first heat for a comfortable
length-and-a-half win. The way
he swung them last Wednesday
night he’s a good type of front-
runner capable of setting just
the pace that has them doing
double-takes in the ruck behind
him. In the longer distances he
goes on to the 12yds. mark,
which might find his measure.
Hedonist, a solid performer
from S.A., was second, trailing
the winner all the way.
Wednesday’s heats were run
over the short distance —11|
furlongs. Caduceus at times
looked to be doing a two-minute
“Bat” in the first heat, but he
just didn’t get a run. Illawarra
Wrack was in the same fix.
Mineral Spring was close
enough, though wide, but he
doesn’t like to be bustled early,
which accounted for his poor
run. Active Ayr broke at the
start and ran along behind the
field. If only he would leave
on even terms! Brucus took
more buffeting than he deserved,
and he’s still worth watching.
Enzedders Thelma Globe and
Vedette flew in the third heat to
fill fourth and fifth places. The
heats, postponed
till tonight (Wednesday), will
give them all the chance to get
their runs.
Blue Gamble slipped to an
unbeatable lead at the turn to
win the third heat. Runner-up
Van Hall was impressive,
coming from a long way back
with a powerful sprint; he
should reach the final. Pretty
Victorian mare Dainty Rose set
up a big lead, came back to the
pack, but hung on well for third.
Trainer-driver Alan Sindel has
always been regarded as a
shrewd man. A horse set for a
race has a big advantage over
one that isn’t; and Sindel has
been tuning-up Springfield Guy
for this race for 12 months
or more. Also a shrewd driver,
Sindel watched the first heat for
pointers and saw the trouble the
horses in the ruck were having
•trying to get a run. In the
second heat Springfield Guy was
quickly whisked to the front,
where he boxed-on like a good
horse for an easy win. Sparkling
Max, given the run of the race
by Wilson, was second; Derby
winner First Variety flew from
a desperate position for an
encouraging third.
+ +
In the manner of the paper
which headlined “Bradman
Fails” after he’d made 79 or so
was some of the expressed disap-
pointment when Lorraine Crapp
didn’t break smin. for 440yds.
freestyle on Saturday night in
the Australian swimming titles at
Sydney’s Olympic Pool. For she
did well enough, setting two
world-records in her swim—
-smin. s.9sec. for 440yds. (after
having set a new time, smin. 6.7
sec., the night before) and smin.
4.2 sec. for a long-pool 400-
metres swim.
On the same night Gary Chap-
man and Jon Henricks both set
the fastest world long-course
record for 220yds. freestyle
(2min. s.Bsec.), with Chapman
winning the race by a touch.
Chapman’s time for 200 metres
(2min. 5.25ec.) was also world’s
fastest for a long pool.
* * *
“G.M.”: Queensland’s sole
entrant, Daring, skippered by
Brisbane optometrist John
Cuneo, split her mainsail in the
fifth and last heat of the Aus-
tralian Championships for 12-
square-metre yachts at Hobart,
and retired. But she already had
the title, Queensland’s first, in
the bag, having previously won
the first, third and fourth heats
from a class inter-State field of
22. It was hard to fault Cuneo’s
handing of the northern sharpie,
in conditions that were almost as
perfect. Tasmanian entrant
Scull, second ; South Australia’s
Swan, third.
* * *
N.S.W., with 22 points, won
the Sheffield of 1955-56, for the
third successive season. It beat
S.A. outright twice, defeated
each of the other three States on
the first innings (though, against
Victoria, it was fighting at the
end to avoid outright defeat), was
defeated by Queensland on the
first in the return game and drew
the first match with Victoria,
when rain blotted-out play on
the last two days. This game was
anybody’s when the rain came.
Rain interfered with several
matches, Victoria, which finished
second with 20 points, being the
main sufferer. Both Victoria's
games with S.A., both won by
Victoria on the first, had washed-
out days, there was the game
against N!S.W-, and the last two
days of the Vic.-Q. game in
Brisbane were also washed-out
(when Q. already had a hand-
some first-innings lead, and
looked like winning outright).
So, considering also that N.S.W.
may have beaten W.A. outright if
it hadn’t rained, the Shield
would probably still have gone
to N.S.W. even if there had been
drought wherever the cricket
was.
« > • • •
For the first time, W.A. will
play a full quota of matches in
the Sheffield Shield competition
next season. A good move, and
W.A. cricket should benefit; in
some aspects of the game it needs
improvement. The Westerners
have a fair enough pace-attack,
of Gorringe, Gaunt and Preen,
but lack a class spinner to back
them up; and their batsmen are
often too negative. However, it’s
their fielding which needs the
biggest brush-up; no team in big
cricket can afford to drop 10
catches in an innings, as W.A.
did in the last game of the
season, against Victoria.


They Won't Wait
Picking Peaches
By RAY WEBSTER
PEACHES are like cows,
They won’t wait. When
the green of a yellow-
fleshed peach changes to
a pale yellow that seems to glow
from underneath the skin, it is
high time it was picked.
There is a shower of rain,
maybe, followed by a couple of
hot days, and peaches that were
nowhere near ready swell-up and
start glowing for all they are
worth.
Do they care that if they
mature in time for the weekend
there is no market until
Monday? Or that another
spray is due to go on the apples,
and should and must go on
today?
They just go on maturing until
a stagb is reached when they
get a soft spot on one side, and
that means they can’t be
packed for the Sydney market
and can only be sold to local
purchasers for bottling or home-
consumption.
So there are rushes. Rushes
to get the fruit picked, and then
rushes to get it packed; and
when you feel you must have
a breather or bust, you just bust,
because the cows won’t wait!
Exhausting as it is, there is
something about a peach-rush
that is different from any other
time of the year. It is some-
thing that gets into old and
young, even into the animals
about the place.
So it is that, year after year,
we make for home during the
summer months to spend week-
ends helping with the rush.
After spending half the night in
the train we are a bit bleary-
eyed when we report for duty
at 7.30 next morning, but w 6
snap out of it or get teased out
of it before long.
The lorry Is loaded with
empty cases, we collect picking-
bags (oval tin-buckets on straps
with a canvas-flap on the bottom
which unhooks to let the fruit
out gently into the cases) and
bump off, yawning to the start
of the day.
There is a heat-haze making
the morning look cool, and the
mountains; are blue and lovely
“I don't know a thing about women—but I DO know what I like."
to the east. Dew sparkles on
the grass and spider-webs still,
and the trees are very leafy and
heavy with fruit. The dogs run
ahead. Each one has his idol
and follows him all day. We
bump over contours, and the
truck pulls-up. The long rows
curve away, the fruit glowing
purple and red and gold amongst
the green.
We wait for orders. The boss
picks a peach, shows us. Then
another and another.
“Anything like that will do.
Pick for color and size. You
can’t go wrong.”
We look at each other and
groan. Can’t go wrong! Not
likely you can’t! Pick for color
and size. Simple. Nothing to
it. We pick a few, being very
careful. The shed is hard on
pickers who pick them green.
A great doubt sets in. Are
we picking enough? Too
closely? They look ready . . .
until you get them in the bucket.
Then they change color, get
greener and greener.
The boss, behind us, seems to
be picking over our trees and
getting quite a few. He comes
up and looks in our buckets.
Picks up a peach or two, looks
at it and then at us. Puts it
back. Grins. Says nothing.
“It came off in me hand.”
Defensive. Apologetic.
“You’ll be oke.” A great
man, the boss.
The buckets fill and are
emptied. The cases of fruit
pile-up on the shady side of the
trees.
The broad straps cut into the
back of our necks. We get a
crick from bending backwards
to get the high ones without a
ladder, while the heavy bucket
is pulling us forward all the
time.
Why the hell don’t they grow
dwarf trees like the Japanese?
Or provide pickers with
helicopters?
If you grab that limb you’ll
be able to get that bontodger on
the top. You jump for it, and
hold. The bough creaks, and
gives. You stretch a bit further,
one leg doing ballet-kicks with
the effort. Got it!
Sometimes you find the field-
mice or the grasshoppers or the
birds have got there first and
had a meal from one side of
a beauty. Shows their dis-
crimination,
The track to the lorry is
longer. You stumble through
the weeds or the cover-crop,
unable to see the ground
immediately in front on account
°f the bucket, and sometimes
fa J*. ing into the deep furrow
which gets right to the butts of
the trees. Joe hadn t been
ha PPY abou t the way they
couldn’t get the plough right
against the trees> s 0 he used half
of two ploughs and got what he
wanted without the tractor
damaging limbs. Should be
patented. They are too busy to
worry about it
We grumble about the oats
and the weeds. Good cover,
Joe reckons. He will plough it
i n when it’s ready, after it has
seeded itself for next year,
The sprinkler - system can
reach right through the place, so
if it doesn’t rain the trees don’t
suffer. They run the fertiliser
through the irrigation-system,
too feed it in where the
booster-pump sends the water
through the big aluminium
mains, which are so easy to
handle.
The sun is hotter, the flies a
worry. The trees are cool when
you can get your face into the
middle of them. There isn’t
time to enjoy it. The straps
hurt. The buckets get heavier
every time they are filled. You
find big spiders in the trees, the
color of bark, with yellow
markings. An odd bird’s nest,
with the nestlings palpitating
within and Mother twittering in
the next tree.
Crib-time comes at last.
“Grab yourself a seat,” says the
boss, tossing a box. The
thermos-flasks come out, and we
sit and drink tea and eat, and
throw bits to the dogs sitting in
front of us, and swap news and
views.
When the truck has its load
we go down with Joe to start
the grading and packing. We
are inside-staff now. Part of
the outside-staff roars off in the
lorry with another load of
empties.
Now the fun starts. No more
time for leisurely conversation
about what may be happening
in Sydney, or why the crop is so
much better this year (early-
cultivation, urea, or water at the
right time), or the latest tale of
local happenings.
No time to toss windfalls to
the bellowing cow at the fence
and see her go chasing down the
paddock, tail up, head down,
scoop up the peach, slobber it,
toss her head, moo, and come
prancing up for more. Now the
Cutler sets the pace, and the
deadline for the day’s quota
presses all the time.
The grader stretches almost
the length of the shed. It has
conveyor-belts and bins on each
side of it —one side for first-
grade, the other for second-
grade.
Joe pulls the switch and we
tip the first case down the ramp
on to the revolving rollers of
the sorting-bench under the
fluorescent-light. Joe’s dog
flops down under the rattling
conveyors and goes to sleep.
Our pooch doesn’t like noise as
much as he used to, and is
content to come round now and
then to count us and see we
are there. First indication of
his presence is a cold nose at
the back of a knee.
Co-ordination of hand and
eye is necessary for a good
grader. As the fruit is turned
over under the eyes it is up to
the grader to pick out the
second-grade fruit, the ripe
stuff which is all right for local
selling, and the tripe, which is
tossed into drums beneath the
bench and later goes to
neighboring pigs.
First-grade fruit rolls on to its
endless-belt at the end of the
rollers, or is picked up and
placed on it if there is time and
grading is easy. When there is
a lot of ripe and throw-out
stuff, the graders have to work
extra hard. After a hailstorm,
for instance.
The second - grade belt
parallels the first, and beyond
that are the cases for ripe and
culls. It takes a while to get
the eye in, but after that the
actions become automatic,
though there are times when a
near-miss lands on the wrong
belt.
Hands fly and peaches flow
magically away on the belts.
The grader sees no more than
the small area in front of the
eyes. No chance of looking up:
the machine and the tipper set
the pace. There is a gear on the
roller, and it can be stopped by
throwing a lever, but it is shame
to use it except in emergencies.
The tipper takes a case from
the stack, empties it, puts the
empty on a stack near the door
ready for loading when the lorry
comes down again, keeps the
fruit rolling down to the
graders, takes away full cases of
ripe stuff and replaces with
empties. It takes two good
hands to keep the bins full,
sometimes three.
The boss comes over some-
times and sees the quality of
second- and throwout-grades
and tells us we are ruining him.
We retort that we are preserving
his reputation.
Revolving-buckets lift the
fruit off the belts and tip it on
to individual carriers, which ride
on metal tracks until the fruit
reaches its own weight (set for
various sizes), and a trip tips
the carrier and lets the peach
roll into the bin. The bins are
sprung, so that as they fill they
sink down and the fruit does
not pile up unless neglected by
the packer.
It is father fascinating at the
beginning of the season watch-
ing the boss set the weights for
each bin. He will add a nail or
take out a lead washer until the
size is right.
Each bin has its own pack,
three-three or three-two in a
deep or shallow box, according
to size. With Hale peaches, the
number in the box ranges from
32 to 117, depending on the
season. Some years we pack
24’s. Not many, though, as big
peaches are hard to sell, and
pruning is aimed at eliminating
the very large fruit.
A packed case of big fruit is
a glorious sight, and everyone
takes a pride in the product.
They look beautiful on the trees
with the green leaves as a foil,
but perhaps even better in the
box, each one matched with its
fellow, but each with its own
individual variation of color —
greens, yellows, reds and
purples.
The packets fill the boxes
quickly, mark the number on the
end of each, brush the fruit with
a soft brush to remove the
excess fur, and put the box on
the conveyor for the nailer-
down. He is kept busy if there
are three or four packers going.
After folding the lining-paper
over the top of the fruit, he
places the corrugated-cardboard
over that, then the prefabricated
lid. He stamps on the lever,
which brings two clamps down
to hold the lid in place ; whacks
two nails in each end with a
tomahawk; stamps again on
the foot-pedal; upends the box ;
rubber-stamps the number and
variety in the places provided on
the label; and stacks the box
near the door ready for the
pick-up.
As the day goes on, the stack
at the door grows bigger and
the stack at the end of the
grader diminishes.
There is friendly rivalry
between grader and packer.
There are always a few culls
missed, and the packers find
them and send them back on the
return-belt which runs above
their bins. The graders have
only one defence —to attack first
and tell the packers they are
too fussy. This argument can
go on all day if necessary.
The machine gives a rhythm
to the work, and it is easy to
sing to. There may be half-a-
dozen different tunes all going
at once, not very loud, but satis-
fying to the singer. There is
laughter in plenty at odd sallies,
but not much talking. There
isn’t time.
The pickers, having taken all
the fruit ready, come down with
the last load and disperse to
various jobs. There are new
cases to be labelled; labelled
cases to be lined with paper
ready for the packers ; second-
hand cases (used for second-
grade fruit) to have the old
brand and labels removed by
the sanding-machine, and then
branded with the shed stencil;
bundles of prefabricated lids to
(Continued on page 34)


Labours pulling
in the wrong
direction!
2
a
ass
S 3
THE COUNTRY CO OPERATE
IN HOLDING AUSTRALIA'S PROSPERITY
We need a new State Government that will pull together with the
successful Menzies-Fadden Team in bringing us progress and prosperity.
State Labour has quarrelled and wrangled with the Commonwealth and
tried to blame them for their own wasteful incompetency.
While the Federal Government has created an unprecedented prosperity,
State Labour has systematically undone much of the good work.
LOOK AT THE FACTS:
Menzies-Fadden have progressively lowered all tax rates,
encouraged primary production by special tax concessions,
increased pensions and social services and granted generous
health benefits.
State Labour, on the other hand, has increased taxation, has shot
up railway freights, withdrawn hospital subsidies and raised
death and stamp duties.
For a new government that will co-operate with the Commonwealth
VOTE
(Authorised by J. F. Dredge, Aust. Country Party, 42 Bridge St., Sydney.)
UNCABLED
ADDITION S
U.S. AID
Uncle Sam seems to be
experiencing, in the international
field, something on the lines of
Lincoln’s dictum on the dangers,
particularly to recipients, of the
over-free lending of money.
Edinburgh “Scotsman” describes
as “political ingratitude” the
stand of some of the countries
America has helped most
generously.
“The United States,” the
“Scotsman” notes, “has played
the role of international bene-
factor ever since the war, and
there seems to be no end to the
calls on its purse.
“Yet the billions of dollars
spent on reviving war-shattered
economies and in stimulating
progress in undeveloped coun-
tries have brought a poor return
in the form of goodwill on the
part of the recipients.
“President Eisenhower’s recent
request to Congress' for power
to grant long-term aid to back-
ward nations has inspired some
rueful reflections in the ‘Wall
Street Journal’ on the extent of
America’s assistance and the
scarcity of her friends.
“Americans are naturally
pained at times by the tendency
of people to bite the hand that
feeds them, but with increasing
experience of world-leadership
they should become resigned to
doing good deeds without hope
of immediate reward.
“Britain in her day has carried
out the thankless job of bearing
the white-man’s burden. Every
contribution to the material
welfare of colonies increases the
desire of the inhabitants to rule
themselves, so that enlightened
Imperialism is a form of political
suicide.
“No doubt it is wrong that
countries should take American
aid for granted, and Britain her-
self has been culpable in this
respect. But such a reaction is
understandable and should
cause the Americans no distress.
It hurts a nation’s pride to admit
that it cannot do without a
foreign loan, and for this very
reason it is inclined to demon-
strate its political independence
rather defiantly.
“Besides, the United States is
rich and powerful; it is generally
assumed that it should put down
a big subscription for any good
cause, and that it can well afford
to do so, although American
taxpayers do not see things in
that light.
“Ingratitude may even be
rationalised on the ground that
the United States is serving its
own interests by distributing aid
so freely. The American people
want to be liked, and they know
that their generosity, although
not free from enlightened self-
interest, has nobler motives. But
they should not be disappointed
by the lack of immediate returns
when they cast their bread upon
the waters. Recipients may be
basely ungrateful, but in the
long run history will do justice
to the scope and liberality of
America’s help for needy
humanity.”
Taking a rather less altruistic
view of the massive American
handouts, David Lawrence,
editor of “U.S. News and World
Report,” quotes U.S. Secretary
of State Dulles:
«. believe that the United
states must counter these* Soviet
. We can snccppd not hv
” ' ” in cWr
'TI
amounts oi economic aid but
by making newly-mdependent
and newly-articulate peoples
feel that they can best satisfy
their wants by becoming and
remaining part of the com-
munity of free nations.’ ”
That, adds Lawrence, “is all
right as far as it goes”:
“Perhaps a warning can be
read into it that the United
States will be interested in help-
ing only those countries which
‘become’ members of or ‘remain’
members of the free world. But
there is need for further defini-
tion and for an explicit state-
ment.
“We cannot recognise such a
thing as ‘neutralism’ or
‘neutrality’ in our foreign-aid
programme. The phrase ‘foreign
aid’ means ‘aid for the defence
of the United States.’ Unless
appropriations can clearly be
allocated for such a specific pur-
pose for the defence of
America —the money of Ameri-
can taxpayers should not in all
honesty be used merely for a
philanthropic enterprise or
adventures in ‘competitive co-
existence.’ ”
After asking why a “single
dime’7 should be spent to help
India unless its Government
abandons its “tricky neutral-
ism,” Lawrence adds that “it’s
time to face up to the inter-
national blackmail to which we
are also being subjected in the
Middle East”:
“The United States cannot
police local wars and disputes.
That’s the task of the United
Nations. But the decision of
the Soviet Union to sell arms to
Egypt and Egypt’s readiness to
accept such arms indicates that
Prime Minister Nasser is trying
to play one side off against the
other. That kind of ‘neutralism’
should not be supported with
American dollars.
“Prime Minister Nasser is
represented as saying he really
wants to be with the West, but
wishes to avoid signing any
treaties or making any public
commitments to the West. Why?
“Vague assurances are not
enough. Acts must definitely
demonstrate that the nations
which profess to be friends are
actually on our side and not
ashamed of it—and certainly not
at the same time playing games
with the enemy.
“We [the U.S.] cannot_Jout-
bid’ Communism. For" the
Soviet is making fake ‘bids.’ We
are in the habit of keeping our
pledges, whereas the Com-
munists make ‘offers,’ but rarely
fulfil them.
“The policy of the United
States should be applied at all
times to protect the people of
the United States. If American
funds can be effectively used
abroad for that purpose, let
Congress appropriate on a selec-
tive basis. Nations which insist
on being ‘neutral’ in the struggle
between slavery and freedom
and between morality and
immorality can do as they like
—just as we can do what we
like with our own money. For
this is a war —whether we call
it ‘cold’ or ‘hot.’ Our objective
is to help build-up our allies, not
to build-up our enemies.”
U.N. Technical Assistance
Another aspect of U.S. aid is
its contribution to the United
Nations technical-assistance pro-
gramme to backward countries
all over the world.
This technical assistance, as
summarised by “New York
Times,” “includes expert help in
the establishment of factories to
make penicillin, D.D.T., steel,
cement, fertiliser and foods; the
training of skilled personnel;
the development of land- and
water-resources; the improve-
ment of ways for processing
meat, fish and other products;
studies and plans for enriching
the nutrition of great popula-
tions ; programmes to wipe out
epidemic and chronic diseases,
including malaria and tubercu-
losis ; a direct attack on the
infant-mortality which makes
parenthood a horror in half the
nations of the world —and, in-
deed, if we abbreviate many
thousand words and many pages
of dramatic statistics, to raise
human welfare beyond the level
dreamed of through countless
ages and over millions of square
miles of jungle and desert, moun-
tains and prairies.”
The U.S. has undertaken to
contribute $l5 million towards
this “potentially vast enterprise”
on the condition that all other
Governments kick-in with a total
of the same amount.
“There is,” “N. Y. Times” adds,
“some doubt that this reason-
able condition will be met.
Russia is putting in $1 million
a year and the Ukraine and
Byelorussia add another $175,000
—if the rouble is worth 25 cents.
Several other countries might do
more, if they cared to.
“Here is one of the doors to
the future. Yet so far it is a
small door indeed, and only open
an infinitesimal crack.”
Guided Missiles
The latest word on the “last
word” in weapons appears to be
the intercontinental ballistic-
missile, known for short as the
1.C.8.M. It seems fairly widely
accepted that the U.S. and the
Soviet are flat-out to be first in
the field with a sample.
The general idea is apparently
a 100 ft. missile with a range of
about 5000 miles and a speed of
about 6000 miles an hour. If
some official predictions are cor-
rect, states “U.S. News and
World Report,” either the U.S.
or Russia will be r£ady to test
such a missile within a year.
If the U.S. is first, the paper


.*c©WtiMBtow. ••
iiM
fmi.mlm!
What is stronger than steel?
My Dad says a fibre of wool is diameter for
diameter, stronger than steel I don’t know what
diameter means but my Dad’s a scientist, and he
knows. Because this is so, my Mother always buys
Stamina for me, for Stamina clothes are made
from...these strong pure wool fibres.
My Dad says all Stamina clothes are made from
pure wool Crusader cloth and
that’s why they wear so well.
Stamina clothes are comfortable
to wear. They keep their colour,
and they keep their shape, too.
All Stamina clothes are good.
8W1.113
ASK FOR
CIOTHII
Stamina
Botf4 Satin
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
continues, it will then have an
intercontinental missile designed
to do these things:
“Flash across the Atlantic in
30. minutes and fly from con-
tinental U.S. to targets far in
Russia in 40 to 60 minutes.
“Deliver a full-size H-bomb
from one continent to another
at a ‘ground-speed’ three times
that of a rifle-bullet.
“Soar 600 miles into the strato-
sphere, then descend on a target
thousands of miles away too fast
for any known means of inter-
ception to stop it.
“If Russia wins, the roles will
be reversed, with this country
[the U.S.] the target.
“The knowledge that the
Soviet Union is driving hard to
win is back of increased pressure
in the United States to get a
long-range missile off the draw-
ing-boards and into the ‘hard-
ware’ stage. Firms aiding in the
U.S. missile-programme have
been told to spare no expense
in the effort to cut development-
time further.
“To try-out the U.S. super-
missile, when completed, a test-
ing-range, stretching 5500 miles
over water from Florida to the
Ascension Island area, is being
readied well ahead of schedule.
It is to be ready for use by late
1957.
“A deadline for [early] 1957
has been set for preliminary
tests for the first American inter-
continental missile.
“The decision has been made,
too, to put the big U.S. effort
behind a ‘ballistic’-type of long-
range missile, fired high in the
air, as is a big artillery shell,
rather than on jet-propelled
types, which resemble pilotless-
bombers.
“In Russia, a big-missile pro-
gramme is known to be getting
top-priority treatment from
Communist planners, with great
pressure being applied for speed.
Kremlin leaders cast hints about
rapid progress. An informed
U.S. Congressman speculates that
the Soviets already have a 1500-
mile missile and are close to their
goal.
“The question of whether
Russia or U.S. is ahead in the
race for the ‘ultimate’ weapon,
at this stage, is about to get a
searching examination by the
House Armed Services Com-
mittee as a first order of business.
“The U.S., as a result of this
growing concern, is stepping up
its programme for big missiles
to something very near a ‘crash’
basis. Top emphasis is being
placed on the Atlas, a gigantic
version of the German V-2
weapon.
“This Air Force missile is to
stand at least 100 ft. high and will
be powered by multiple-stage
rockets. It is being designed to
travel at least 5000 miles—the
distance, almost exactly, from
Washington to Moscow. It will
contain a guidance-mechanism
which will operate during the
first few minutes of flight, but
will not be able to navigate con-
tinuously for better accuracy, as
will jet-propelled models.
“While this supermissile is to
get the big emphasis, it will be
backstopped by two other long-
range missiles —the Snark and
the Navaho. Both are jet-pro-
pelled and are in the ‘pilotless-
bomber’ category. They are
relatively slow—each will take
three or four hours to cross the
Atlantic. But they promise
greater accuracy. One, the Snark,
already is in ‘limited production.’
The big drawback: they can, in
theory, be intercepted by fast
anti-aircraft missiles.
“Long-range missiles are all
incredibly complex. Each will
have thousands of parts,
machined to microscopic toler-
ances. Missile-designers have
figured that, in the case of a
weapon with 100 major com-
ponents, if each component had
99 per cent, reliability the over-
all reliability of the finished
missile would be only 36 per
cent. They are striving for over-
all reliability of better than 90
per cent. Hence the need for
record precision.
“The cost to the taxpayers of
the stepped-up missiles-race pro-
mises to increase with the com-
plexity of the nation’s basic
weapons. Right now, the U.S.
is spending at the rate of $lOOO
million a year. Much of this is
still for research. Most of the
rest is for development and for
training-missiles. The big pro-
duction costs still lie ahead.
“Just what the first U.S. long-
range missiles wjll be like is
becoming clear, too, from back-
ground explanations given by
informed defence-officials. As
these experts tell it:
“Actual speed of the Atlas will
be in excess of 8100 miles an
hour, or 12 to 13 times the speed
of sound. This, however, is ‘air-
speed,’ as the big rocket soars up
on its high trajectory into the
stratosphere. Its ‘ground-speed’
from one point on the earth’s
surface to another will be less—
perhaps 6000 miles an hour.
“The two jet-propelled models,
Snark and Navaho, are likely to
fly at only two or three times the
speed of sound, at perhaps 1500
to 2000 miles an hour. These
missiles will fly parallel to the
earth, so ‘air’- and ‘ground’-speed
will be approximately the same.
“Is there any way for the
Russians to intercept the Atlas
in flight? Not that U.S.
scientists know of now. No anti-
aircraft gun, anti-missile missile
or interceptor-jet in existence or
planned could come even close
to knocking down an intercon-
tinental mi§sile travelling at 6000
miles an hour, the experts believe.
“How will the Atlas be guided
in flight? Its course will be set.
Guidance data will be fed into
the missile before take-off. The
Atlas then is to travel on a pre-
determined course —in a set
direction, for a set distance, and
rising to a set height before
diving—with its directions all
contained within the missile.
There will be no radar-beam to
‘ride,’ no electronic guidance
from the ground, nothing for an
enemy to ‘jam.’
“How accurate will this missile
be, then? Its specifications call
for accuracy to be within two-
tenths of 1 per cent. For a
missile travelling 5000 miles, that
means hitting within 10 miles of
the centre of the target.”
New French
Government
London “Time and Tide”
assessment of the future of
France’s new Government,
accepted in the National
Assembly by 420 votes against
71 —“a majority as unstable as
it is large”:
“M. Mollet’s Government of
Socialists and Radicals, with
about 150 seats in a Chamber of
600, should be able to retain a
bare majority as long as the
Communists, with their 151 seats,
do not withdraw their support.
“M. Mendes-France, as leader
of the Radicals, will of course
be an important member of the
new Government, probably the
most important. But his
economics are far from
Socialistic and the Socialists do
not want him in the Ministry of
Finance. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, for which
M. Mendes-France would have
been suitable, has fallen to the
Socialist M. Pineau, who is con-
sidered a For
the time being, at least,
M. Mendes-France is to have a
Ministry without portfolio. It
is expected that he will be chiefly
concerned with North Africa.
“Last year Tunis was on the
verge of open insurrection, and
it was chiefly thanks to
M. Mendes-France that disaster
was averted by the grant of
autonomy (Tunisian foreign
policy and military affairs remain
under the control of Paris).
France is determined to retain
Algeria as a French Department,
but this is being made impossible
by the Algerians, who demand
the same rights as French citizens
and will not be satisfied with
anything less than autonomy.
“The situation would seem to
be most dangerous in Morocco,
the country on which France has
conferred the greatest benefits.
France cannot be expelled from
Morocco. The national move-
ment is still too primitive and the
population generally too divided
for concerted action strong
enough to have the slightest
chance of success against the
military power of France. She
cannot be defeated in Morocco,
but she can be defeated on her
own home-front. If she is unable
to restore some sort of order
in Morocco, if the assassinations
and the risings continue
indefinitely, the opponents of
France’s North African policy,
the Communists above all, may
gain enough influence to pull
France out of Morocco or even
the whole of North Africa.”
Balance of Payments
Commenting on the “failure
of Australian balance of pay-
ments to show any noticeable
improvement, in spite of a suc-
cession of import-cuts,” London
“Financial Times” finds the
situation something of a puzzle:
“Exports [from Australia]
during the last six months of
1955 have risen, in spite of the
decline in wool-prices, by 7 per
cent, above the corresponding
period a year before. But the
balance of trade shows barely
any improvement, because im-
ports have risen almost as much
during the same period.
“Now, the six months from
July to December, 1954, were a
time when imports to Australia
were to a large extent un-
restricted. The first cuts, intro-
duced during [late] 1954, could
have had no noticeable effect
before the end of the year.
“But the imports coming in
during the second half of 1955
should have been held back by
the double force of the restric-
tions of [late] 1954 and April,
1955. The second was of an
especially severe character. .
“How is it to be explained,
then, that Australian imports
during this period were notably
higher? The evidence suggests
that the whole system of import-
control suffers from some form
of administrative deficiency.
“This makes it difficult to feel
absolutely confident about the
effect of the October, 1955, cuts,
which are supposed to bring the
Australian balance of payments
into equilibrium.”
East German Refugees
In 1955 over 271,000 refugees
crossed from East to West Ger-
many—the highest number on
record except for the 350,000
who in '1953 fled from the long-
term programme to create a
“people’s democracy.”
“The significant thing about
the 1955 exodus,” comments the
Milwaukee TU.S.A.) “Journal,”
“was not so much the large
numbers who fled but the kind
of people they were. In 1953
most of those who left East Ger-
many were elderly and middle-
class —not too important to
industrial growth. But in the last
year they have been young
people and engineers, skilled
workers and people with educa-
tion. Their loss is serious and
significant.
“Many of the youngsters have
fled to avoid service in the East
German armed forces. The
greatest influx came after the
August conference at Geneva
failed to move toward German
unity and renewed East-West
tensions.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Less Leisure
Young people of today are inclined
to raise their eyebrows when their elders
talk of the conditions of years ago.
Some wonder how the previous genera-
tion put up with the hardships and
drudgery of pre-war years, when
employees worked 44 hours or more, had
a meagre half-holiday on Saturdays, and,
if in shops and some other establishments,
slaved as late as 9 p.m. on Fridays.
On a comparison of hours and holi-
days, the modern worker looks much
better off in leisure than his counterpart
of 20 years ago, but, except for a single
youth or girl, the comparison is illusory.
Take my own case. I have a fairly
responsible and reasonably well-paid
job by current standards ; I have a wife
and three children, a house to pay for
and keep in order and an ageing motor-
car. I work a five-day week, nominally
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., with occasional
necessary evening work. Otherwise, in
theory, I have my evenings and the full
weekend for leisure.
In practice, things work out a little
differently. Like the majority today, I
have a sideline occupation which takes
most of my evenings and brings in a small
and welcome additional income. That
leaves weekends to devote to the needs
of the family, house and car.
Jobs associated with one or another
of these responsibilities usually leave little
free time. In pre-war days, a person of
my semi-professional status would have
had house-repairs, painting, cupboard-
building and the like done by skilled
tradesmen, but with the high wages
demanded today that is out of the
question. I must tackle them myself if
I want them done.
So the net total of my leisure is, on
the average, about a half-day a week.;
There is, of course, an element of re-
laxation in doing jobs around the house
and on the car, and in plugging away at
my chosen sideline, but the fact remains
that I can’t afford to put my feet up and
take it easy every evening and weekend.
And my case, I gather, is no different
from that of the average middle-class
chap with family responsibilities.
In point of leisure, then, modern
employment-conditions may have given
the single man and woman many free
hours, but they have increased the total
working-time of the family-man consider-
ably. As for the increased “leisure”
enjoyed by the average housewife and
mother —far be it from me to stick my
neck out on that one. — Doynest (Vic.).
Organists
I question if “organists are a dying
race” (B. 8/2/’56) and doubt that “£lOO
a year’ : has much bearing on the subject.
Many organists receive less than that,
but their remuneration can’t be entirely
summed-up in the amount doled-out as
an honorarium. In most churches an
organist is allowed free use of the organ
for teaching ; he is paid fees for weddings
(in some cases these work out at more
than the honorarium); he gathers pupils
from the congregation, and if there is a
school attached to the place, or one
belonging to the same denomination in
the district, he stands a good chance of
filling the job of music-master there.
Being in charge of the music at a church
is also an excellent advertisement and
gives a musician scope to display his
wares.
Although an organist may have several
duties at his church, he stiU has a lot of
time left for teaching and concert-
appearances. As for his small honorarium,
that is a matter of economics, too —he
can hardly expect much so long as it has
to be found by church members.
I know plenty of organists ; some are
just young musicians starting-out, and
they’re as keen as any I knew in my
youth.
Some professional musicians make
good money, but the average player or
singer takes up the art because it fas-
cinates him, not because he expects to
grow wealthy in the making of music.
Like the schoolteacher, the earlier home
of the trained musician was the cloister
—the practice and teaching of music is a
vocation, not a trade, and that point
should be drummed into students at our
academies and conservatories. If it’s big
money they’re after, let them take up
more lucrative work and keep their music
as a delightful hobby; if they intend to
be professionals it may help them to
recall that Mozart, Schubert and other
immortals had seldom more than a penny
or two in their pockets.
I have been a professional musician
for nearly half-a-century, and, of course,
I’d like to see organists and all genuine
musicians make a lot more money. But
if that happy state is not to be, let them
take the word of an old hand that a
musical career has its own peculiar com-
pensations.—Maitri (N.S.W.).
American Surpluses
Those huge American surpluses of
farm-produce (“Uncabled Additions,” B.
1/2/’56) pose a serious problem. They
are certainly clear proof of the superiority
of “capitalist” agriculture over Socialist-
run farming: they signify that America
can grow enough to feed and satisfy the
whole nation, with plenty over for distri-
bution elsewhere.
The main problem is how is this food
to be disposed of without, perhaps, caus-
ing the ruin of primary industries of
other countries. “Dumping,” while it
could help poor and backward peoples,
is not popular with other countries which
could stand to lose their markets.
One question posed by the Communists
on this whole problem of huge farm-
surpluses demands an answer. The “Red
“ Pah —an illiterate! Drops his [?] ’s!”
Dean,” Dr. Hewlett Johnson, in his
Socialist Sixth of the World, claimed that
what first turned his thoughts towards
Communism was on hearing of such
things as the ploughing-in of 10-million
acres of cotton or the slaughtering, with-
out further use, of five-million pigs, and
seeing such headlines as “Poland’s Good
Harvest —severe blow to recovery.”
The same destruction could happen
with these American farm-surpluses. Is
there then really something wrong with
our methods of distribution of bumper
crops, as Communist propaganda claims?
And, if so, what can be done about it,
while preserving our civilisation? —
Keima (Q.).
Banking Legislation
The entry of the two largest private
trading-banks into the savings-bank
field has more than a shadow of political
significance.
Ever since the present Federal Govern-
ment was elected in 1949, following
Chifley’s move to nationalise banking,
the banks have been urging that the Bank-
ing Act be amended to separate the
Commonwealth., trading-bank from the
central bank.
Their reasons are sound. Under exist-
ing legislation a Socialist Government
could effectively put the private banks
right out of business without, recourse
to legislation, whittling them down
gradually with oppressive measures until
they became mere satellites of the central
bank, and hence, under the existing
legislation, of the Commonwealth trad-
ing-bank.
The private banks, moreover, regard
the present governor of the Common-
wealth Bank as rather more than an
active competitor whose bank enjoys
special privileges and does not pay taxes ;
they have reason to remember him as
the prime adviser of the Chifiey Govem-
ment when the move to nationalise their
banks was made.
Notably patient men, private bankers
have become wary and concerned over the
six-year delay of the Menzies Govern-
ment in providing the safeguard they
seek. During that time, when their funds
have been called compulsorily into the
central bank in substantial proportions
they have felt the real threat of unfair
competition from the Commonwealth
trading-bank, which has not scrupled to
take advantage of the situation brought
about by the central bank.
The move, therefore, to open savings-
banks was not only a declaration of trade-
war against the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, but a clear indication to the
Commonwealth Government that the
day of appeasement and fruitless negotia-
tions is past.
It is a healthy sign that the banks are
taking this stand ; it will make for health
not only in the banking world but also in
the political sphere, where the advocates
of bureaucracy and Socialism have been
getting their own way for far too long.—
Inall (N.S.W.).
The Australian “Boy”
Thanks to “Peter” for a most intelli-
gent summing-up of the magazine “Boy”
(B. 25/1/’56). He was not altogether
right, however —we were constantly seek-
ing the views of fresh readers as to what
they wanted in “Boy.”
The Brothers at St. Bede’s College,
Mentone (Vic.), even held a “Gallup
poll” in the appropriate age-groups. All
this seeking for guidance could have
resulted in “The Tower of Babel Sunday
Morning Herald” if we had tried to
implement what boys wanted. Right
through this pathfinding hardly two boys
held similar views.
Maybe, as editor, I should have gone
ahead —as we started —giving them what
we thought was good for them.
Yes, we devoted space to stamps, aero.-
modelling and the like, but stories and
articles held pride-of-place. We had good
writers, but it was difficult to secure a
sufficient variety of good stories for boys
in Australia.
Another point: there are not enough
boys in Australia today who like stories
and articles. The overwhelming majority
demand strips.
We published strips by Australians —
the best available—but they were not
good enough. The decent type of strip
that boys like —suih as the Disney series
—was not available to us. That spelt
disaster, and the lack of interest by
parents and schools completely finished
the magazine.
Finally, I assure Gavin Casey that
advertising did not influence contents (B.
8/2/’56), because, even if I had had that
type of editorial mind, we .did not have
any advertisements worth talking about.
Advertising-service agents were not
interested in a decent magazine for boys,
either.— E. J. Trait (Vic.).
Boys like “Peter” decry the dearth of
“good” stories, and publishers lament
the fact that they can’t get “good” stories.
Which seems to throw it right back on
the shoulders of the freelance. And how
many people can make a decent living
from writing today when payments are
made on the standards of pre-war A.J.A.
rates?
The writer spends much time and labor
on a story and is offered £3 12s. 6d. for
“all rights whatsoever.” Is it any wonder
that so many of them give it away and
take to driving a truck?
A little more encouragement, a little
more co-operation, and Australian story-
writers would give editors the stories they
say they want and would write the kind
of stories our youngsters want. Most
writers are well aware of the kind of
stories required, but they’re not prepared
to do them at the prices offered. —
Quilliib (Vic.).
One Big Union ""
The jdea of “one big union,” which
was suggested in Australian trade-union
circles in the early 1920’5, was revived at
the latest A.W.U. conference. Mr. Davis,
who advocated the proposal, declared
that if there were one big union and
every one of Australia’s two-million
unionists belonged to it and each paid
a membership-fee of £5 the union would
have an annual income of £lO million. '
“This,” he said, “would enable the
union to have its own daily newspapers
and TV-stations, to put both sides of
important questions to the people.”
That would not happen. The news-
papers and radio- and TV-stations would
be vehicles of propaganda for whatever
clique happened to control the union.
“The union,” Mr. Davis also suggested,
“should be sectionalised, with one sec-
tion controlling transport, including ship-
ping, railways, tramways and road-
transport, another for the building-
trades, another for the metal-trades,
another for rural industries. Each sec-
tion would appoint its own executive-
officers, and these officers collectively
would be in charge of the union’s affairs.
An annual conference would be the
policy-making body.”
Despite Mr. Davis, such a union would
be a menace to the liberty of the indivi-
dual and to genuine Constitutional
government. It would inevitably become
totalitarian. It would also be anti-
democratic in management, for it would
be too large for the rank-and-file to
exercise any effective control over
officials.
One big union would serve mainly
political ends. It would lack the voca-
tional basis of the craft and professional
unions. Even officials gifted with the
wisdom of Solomon could not adequately
represent the diverse interests of em-
ployees in all types of occupations —
unions do not always have common
economic aims.
Last, skilled craftsmen, professional
men and other types of white-collar
workers have no basic unity of purpose
with semi-skilled and unskilled manual
workers. The first group favors margins
for skill, while the other considers that it
should share in any such wage-gains. As
unskilled workers have the strength of
numbers one big union would certainly
give them first consideration. This,
indeed, has been substantially the case
with the A.C.T.U., and is the main reason
why that confederation of trade-unions
was prepared to countenance an
illegal strike by the wharfies. — Terry
the Tory (N.S.W.).
Savings-certificates
The suggestion that the Federal Gov-
ernment should issue savings-certificates
in small denominations —similar to those
subscribed to so heavily during the war
—sounds all right, but I doubt if it would
work if run on the same lines as before.
The popularity of the war-savings
certificates was due to several factors
which would not apply today. First,
there was the appeal to patriotism, which
would fall on deaf ears in the more
selfish atmosphere of peace. Then there
was, in those days, a dearth of goods
and services upon which surplus money
could be spent. Today there is an abund-
ance of consumer-goods, and the desire
to acquire them is encouraged by the
vigorous forces of advertising and the
competitive spirit which urges most people
to keep pace with their friends and
neighbors in dress, pleasures and house-
hold-furnishing.
Further, in war-time the avenues for
investment were strictly limited and con-
trolled, so that the return from war-sav-
ings certificates was profitable in com-
parison with other forms of saving. To
make savings - certificates attractive,
interest-rates would have to compete with
the high returns available on other forms
of current investment.
No doubt the Commonwealth Treasury
will weigh these considerations very care-
fully before determining its policy. It
certainly has to find some means of
financing the capital-needs of the country,
and probably a combination of various
forms of public investment, in associa-
tion with controls upon private capital-
issues, will be adopted—Wusslean
(Vic.).


Social Security
Olaf Ruhen’s reference to the prevalent
worship of “the false goddess Security”
is timely (B. l/2/’56). As one who
advises boys leaving school as to suitable
employment, I am often struck by the
emphasis they put on the security-aspect
of a job.
With many it is a prime consideration ;
with others, something to be considered
equally with wages, hours and the physi-
cal hardness of the work. The creative-
ness of a particular job, its service to
the community, the sense of adventure
and achievement that might be associated
with it, the rewards awaiting those with
energy and initiative —these things gen-
erally receive scant attention.
It is hardly surprising that many have
such a sense of values. They are the
sons of those who suffered in the depres-
sion, and their preoccupation with sec-
urity simply reflects that of their parents.
Then, too, they are members of a society
which Governments and trade-unions
hedge about with, security from birth to
death.
That a boy should want to work for
security is natural and good; that he
should want it above all other things
promised him at the outset of his career
is unhealthy. Immediately, one of the
major incentives to his progress is re-
moved, and initiative and a sense of per-
sonal achievement die a premature death.
The cost to him personally, and to a
nation not yet out of its pioneering
clothes, is incalculable. The distribution
of Australia’s population might be much
different if it weren’t for this preoccupa-
tion with security.
Defenders of the Welfare State point
to the bad old days when security of
employment, where it all-too-rarely
existed, depended on excessive diligence
and servility. One sympathises with their
view, but haven’t we “cured the disease
and killed the patient”?— Peekay
(N.S.W.).
Languages
With Australia likely to come into
closer and closer contact with the Asian
Powers of our Near North —including a
resurgent China, an overpopulated Japan
and a teeming Indonesia —it seems that
our educationists should be teaching our
youngsters Asian tongues as well as, or
instead of, French and Latin.
Our future is bound-up,with the nations
to the north, and the better our qualifica-
tions to maintain friendly relations with
them the better our chances of survival
in the future. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
Olives
“Ymar’s” estimate of the life of an
olive-tree at 700 years (B. 11/1/ ’56) is
conservative. Describing a visit to a
famed olive-plantation in Majorca,
James Reynolds writes in Fabulous
Spain: —
The olive-trees in Majorca are said to he the
oldest in Europe to bear fruit. The tangled,
paper-thin trunks are as warped and split in
twain as a skein of silver threads, and, it would
seem, as tenuous. Olive-trees in North Africa,
Italy and Spain have always fascinated me
beyond understanding. How these grotesque
shapes, seeming to have no roots, to skip
crazily over the ground, can yield a crop of
olives century after century, is beyond reason,
but they do. Some of the groves still produc-
ing around Soller are known to be 2000 years
old.
—Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Nato, Seato, Etc.
For some years now, defence-exercises
have been held in the names of Nato
and Seato in parts of their respective
European and Pacific areas. It has been
customary to regard these exercises as
vital to defence —but what good is a gun
without bullets, or a plane without fuel?
In considering the hitherto independent
countries now held in Red bondage we
should remember that Poland, Czechoslo-
vakia and the rest were conquered inter-
nally and politically, and largely without
a real target for Nato to shoot at. France
is going the way of the rest, and Nato
may just as well not exist, for it is
harmless before the intelligent aggression
waged by the Reds.
Red aggression is waged politically,
and successfully. We have no answer to
this clever manipulation of democratic
government. Just as France is currently
the biggest conquest yet achieved by the
Reds—in holding the balance of political
power in Paris they hold all Europe—
so we are about to see an equivalent
success adjacent to the Pacific area.
Whether this conquest occurs in India,
Malaya or Indonesia is immaterial. The
stage is set, and the result is only a
matter of a few years.
We can be sure that, whatever demo-
cratic process is used, Seato will still be
holding exercises while the areas to be
protected are passing into Red hands.
Like Nato, Seato will be powerless;
even unable to see a target.
As intelligent people, we should now
consider what our objective is and how
to achieve it. We have to deal with more
adroit politicians than ours usually are.
The only answer is to have political
exercises on being taken-over from with-
“Hurry on, please, lady!”
in. If a MacArthur can be fired by a
Truman, then the significance of political
influence in our countries is overdue for
emphasis.— Bearcat (N.S.W.).
Where Is Public Opinion?
Almost every day we hear of deplor-
able conditions in some N. S. Wales
country hospitals and of a general short-
age of hospital-accommodation. Also,
we are now told that Sydney’s Water
Board is to cut its sewer-programme in
half. In each case the excuse is the same
—lack of money.
Is public opinion at such a low level
in N. S. Wales that it will accept this
excuse, knowing the State Government
is pushing ahead with all possible speed
for the building of an opera-house in
Sydney? The Premier announced
recently that the conditions governing the
competition for a design of the building
are almost complete, and that architects
all over the world will compete for a
first-prize of £5OOO, the winner to super-
vise the erection of the building, for
which he will draw an additional
substantial fee.
The State Government has promised
at least £1,000,000 towards the cost of the
opera-house, but, if precedents are any
guide, the final figure will be more than
that. The metropolitan daily press has
not said a word against the proposal to
spend so much public money on the play-
thing of a minority, but I hope the
country press has not been won over. I
hope that, between now and the election,
it will attack the opera-house proposal
from every angle while there are so many
other necessary projects crying out for
attention. —Dix (N.S.W.).
Hotel Hours
Here’s another argument against the
late closing of hotels (B. 1/2/’56).
Hitherto, in the suburban side-street in
Sydney where I live, one could go to bed
early in peace and quiet. A hotel has just
been built on the main road passing
through this area, and now both sides of
all the near-by residential streets are
lined with cars, trucks and motor-cycles,
which make a wretched din when their
owners pick them up after the hotel has
closed.
Motor-vehicles are frequently left
parked across private car-entrances, and
this matter has been put to the local
council. The only action so far has been
to discuss the resumption of additional
land in these residential streets to provide
more parking-space for hotel patrons!
—Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Time to Get Tough
The work of the Prison Reform
League and the review of the penal code
played their part in lifting us a bit above
the barbarian stage, but there they should
have stopped. It is time we started get-
ting tough again.
We should get tough first in the nursery
of crime—with the bodgies, louts and
hooligans. Too benign an attitude is
taken towards these junior editions of the
basher- and razor-gangs—“ They’re only
misguided kids,” “Products of an unsteady
age,” **We were the same at their age.”
I hope we weren’t the same. Despite
some modern psychologists, the infant,
the child and the youth all have to be
shown in a firm and sometimes unplea-
sant manner the difference between right
and wrong.
Many crimes that can lead to serious
trouble are regarded too lightly. “Illeg-
ally using a car” is the most illogical
charge I have ever heard. Steal a car for
a joyride in N.S.W. and it’s a minor
offence. Walk out of a shop with a radio
and it’s stealing, even though you only
wanted to borrow the radio for a few
days to hear the races.
Hanging won’t stop a person who is
determined to kill, but it will stop many
of those louts and thugs today who are
too ready to bash or shoot.
The lash for bashings and sex-crimes
would be a return to the barbaric days,
yet Hammurabi did have something three-
thousand years ago when he made the
punishment fit the crime.
The recent case in N.S.W. in which
some louts were responsible for the death
of an innocent elderly man on a Sydney
railway-station should be an object-
lesson. They were found guilty of man-
slaughter and given a comparatively
light sentence; the Crown appealed
against the inadequacy of it, and the
Court of Appeal doubled the dose. —
Rann (N.S.W.).
Police Duties
“Eureka” (B. 25/1/’56) notes only a
few of the extraneous duties of police.
It has always been the custom in N. S.
Wales, when any sort of inspection or
examination is required, to make the
losal constable ex-officio an inspector
under the Act. As a result, it’s a wonder
that back-country police ever get away
from their typewriters. An extraordi-
nary amount flf paper pours on their
inoffensive heads in the way of forms
and reports required by other depart-
ments. It can be anything from the con-
duct of the local chocolate-wheel to the
keeping in health of the local goat
Jumbo (N.S.W.).
TV
Towards the end of this year, we’re
told, some television will be available m
Sydney and Melbourne. But prospective
viewers would welcome at this stage an
indication of what their sets are going to
cost them. At least three big organisa-
tions have been importing prototypes with
the object of local manufacture, but there
hasn’t been a whisper of prices, although
it can be expected that they’ll seek pro-
tection before beginning the job, a highly
intricate one, of assembling sets.
Holders of B-category import-
licences can now import up to 200 sets
a month, within the limit of their total
licence, provided the sets comply with
the specifications and conditions of the
Australian Broadcasting Control Board.
So far, it is believed, comparatively few
sets have been imported under this pro-
vision—in fact, so few that they don’t
appear as yet ,as a separate item in
Qistoms schedules. In the meantime, will
sets be available when required, and, if
so, how much will they cost?
And will the voluntary limiting of
hire-purchases (if such limiting is operat-
ing) be applied to this new phase of home-
entertainment? — Cathode (Vic.).
Frequency-modulation
Although the Federal Government
is apparently going to withdraw the
existing prohibition on the use of
frequency-modulation by commercial
broadcasting-stations, and the Broad-
casting Control Board is thereupon going
to hold a public inquiry into the possible
introduction of FM-broadcasting, no
public review is planned on the use of
very-high-frequencies and ultra-high-fre-
quencies for TV. The board largely sup-
ports the Postal Department in its oppo-
sition to UHF (which will not cause any
great surprise), and it quotes the royal
commission, which actually gave little
attention to the subject. The board found
significance in the fact that every country
with TV, except the United States, oper-
ated only on VHF channels, ignoring the
great technical advances which have been
made in the U.S., especially in color-TV.
There are cliches about “unforeseen
developments” and “the wisdom of ad-
vancing cautiously” which the board
apparently hopes will let it out if its
present attitude eventually proves an
expensive blunder. —F. M. (A.C.T.).
New Guinea Prisons
Announcing a “corrective institu-
tions branch” in the Department of
Territories, the Minister, Paul Hasluck,
showed an enlightened spirit in describ-
ing its functions in New Guinea. He said
that special institutions would train
prisoners in useful occupations, and edu-
cate them in hygiene and standards of
living. In the case of many natives who
came before the Territory courts the real
problem was not to overcome defiance of
society but to bring understanding. Old
Territory hands knew “bad men,” whom
it was difficult to handle, but most would
agree that “large numbers of those inde-
pendent characters who have broken the
law at one time or another are often the
best potential leaders for assisting the
advancement of their own people.” Has-
luck added that opportunities were lost if
men or women left prison in New Guinea
with a worse understanding of the
Administration’s aims for advancing their
welfare, or “with a worse spirit towards
us.”—C. M. (N.S.W.).


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
m.
O W ©
WELL
LININGS
□
S 3
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construe ion.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings, give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, G RAFTQ N, HARDEN, LISMORR,
m QUEAN BEYAN. RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
AUSTRALIA'S RAINFALL
AN immigrant from England
or Europe who goes on the
land in Australia soon becomes
aware of the temperamental
fluctuations of our climate.
Within a year he may suffer
both drought and flood.
He might ask, with good
reason: Why does Australia
suffer such extremes? Do all
Australians suffer them, or only
those thrust into the marginal
areas? And why do Britain
and Europe receive such regular
rainfall, while here there is often
either too much or too little?
The answers to these questions
might be found by examining
the latitudes of the continents
in relation to the prevailing-
wind systems.
As most people know, the
northern third of Australia lies
within the tropics and the
southern tip of Tasmania
extends only just beyond the
43rd latitude. Thus, only the
southern fringe of the continent
experiences the winds of the
Roaring Forties, and those only
during the winter.
These were the reliable winds
of the old seafarers, and were
so steady and constant that
windjammers planned their trips,
courses and sphedules with a
certainty that many a busman
could envy. These winds are
equally reliable as rain-bringers,
and give the dependable winter-
rain to southern Australia and
Tasmania.
The westerlies are cool, and
do not contain as much moisture
as the warmer winds of the
tropics. The rain from them is
lighter, although we may have
more days of rain. Over the
last 100 years the heaviest 24-
hour rainfall in Melbourne was
3iin., whereas Brisbane has had
not only many falls in excess of
that but one of more than 18in.
Also, Melbourne’s average
annual rainfall of 26in. falls in
156 days, but Brisbane’s greater
rainfall of 40in. occurs in only
117 days.
Northern Australia comes
under the influence of the
tropical monsoons. In summer
this monsoon is warm and fully
charged with moisture, and gives
heavy falls of rain, many of
which exceed 20in. in a day.
The total failure of this
monsoon is unusual, but even
in a normal season the rain it
brings is more irregular and
sporadic than the winter-rains
of the south.
The east coast of Australia
comes within the path of
another regular wind, the south-
east trade. This moist stream
When marking and
tailing lambs all sheep
owners realise how
important it is to
minimise shock. In
this respect the ex-
perience of users of
Elastrator Rubber
Rings is interesting.
The following typical
comment is by a
grazier in Western
Queensland — “After
20 minutes lambs
show no sign of hav-
ing been done and
leave the yard and
mother up better,
showing no ill effects.”
of air is lifted by the Dividing
Range, and gives considerable
rain to the east coast. Some of
the most spectacular rains of
the Commonwealth have
occurred here, when the moist,
tropical easterly winds from
coastal cyclones have been
forced to ascend steep mountain
scarps. Crohamhurst (Q.) has
had 3din. in a day, Kuranda (Q.)
29in. and Dorrigo (N.S.W.) at
least 25in.
The area between these
rainfall - influences constitutes
the larger part of the continent,
and it feels even more keenly
the fickle and irregular nature
of the Australian rainfall. For
instance, in the poor seasons,
the rains from the south and
north confine themselves to the
fringes of the continent and do
not extend far inland. Wide-
spread drought is the result, and
may even extend over several
seasons.
On the other hand, in some
years, moist air flows freely
from the north and south, with
an extension of the rains well
inland. Some occasions see the
invyard flow of both air-masses
from the north and south.
Here, in the broad stage of
the inland, they become trapped
and (perhaps to the sound of
the rainmaker’s calls) entangle
and release enormous quantities
of rain upon a flat land not
designed to carry away such a
load. Very soon brown
traceries, creeks, gullies and
flats are converted into mighty
streams traversed by flood-
crests pouring into vast inland
seas dotted with tiny islands.
Other common bringers of
heavy flood-rains are the tropi-
cal cyclones. These are born
in the Coral, Arafura and Timor
Seas, and, after growing in size
and strength, curve southwards,
to strike with sometimes terrific
fury on the east or north-west
coasts of Australia.
Occasional freak cyclones
stray into the arid centre of the
continent and bring floods and
sometimes transform the gold-
fields, transcontinental railway
and the “Dead Heart” into lush
and fertile land.
Most people know that the
wettest part of Australia is the
north-east coast of Queensland,
but few realise that even here
wide variations have occurred
from year to year. Tully, which
is perhaps our wettest rainfall-
station, received 311 in. of rain
in 1950, but its driest year (1943)
gave only 105 in. Eleven, at
least, of the last 27 years of
record have registered more than
200 in., or nearly 37ft. of rain.
At the other end of the scale —
and a very wide extreme it is—
rests the rainfall of the Lake
Eyre region in South Australia.
Mulka, in this area, averages
only 4in. of rain a year, and in
nearly half the years of record
less than 3in. has fallen. Over
a four-year period sin. fell,
giving an average of ljin. The
year 1920 was a “wet year,”
with 1 l|in., or nearly three times
the average rainfall.
The very low annual rainfall
that some places report is,
naturally, due to failure of the
seasonal rainfall. In the* tropics
most of the rain falls between
December and April, and if the
monsoon fails totals for that
year are negligible. Derby and
Port Hedland, in Western Aus-
tralia, average 25in., but they
received only 4in. in 1924.
The exceptionally high annual
totals are due to an unusually
strong outburst of the monsoon
or to the fortuitous combination
of all favorable rainmaking-
conditions within the one
season. A cyclone off its
beaten track can easily cause
such flood-falls in the more arid
regions of the continent.
Such a season was that of
1950, when many places in
eastern Australia received
double their normal rainfall.
The flood of February, 1955,
was without precedent; more
than lOin. of rain in a day was
received at places in western
N.S.W. where the previous
highest fall in nearly a century
of records was sin. in 24 hours.
Perhaps the best example of
the prodigal nature of Jupiter
Pluvius has occurred at
Fortescue (W.A.). On one day
(May 3, 1890), more than 23in.
of rain fell within 24 hours.
“Mind you , it took years of scientific breeding."
Although there are many other
falls of this magnitude, the
remarkable fact is that the
average annual rainfall of
Fortescue is only lOin.
I should like to give some
deeper, and simple, reason for
these freaks of Nature, but,
apart from references to the
circulation of the atmosphere,
the movement of air-masses and
the physical processes of the
storm, the meteorologist is no
nearer the fundamental solution
of Nature’s whim than a
manager is to that of a tempera-
mental screen-star.
A meteorologist can, of
course, give short-range predic-
tions of weather-behavior, and
can assess the statistical prob-
abilities of the future from past
performances: these are valu-
able to the man who uses them
wisely.
Many different schemes have
been put forward in the past,
and new ones are still being
advanced, with the aim of
making the most of a land
despite its temperamental rain-
fall. Flood-mitigation schemes,
soil-conservation practices, irri-
gation-channels and -sprays, big
dams and little dams —all these
have their advocates.
Possibly the answer as to
which measures are best will
rest ultimately on a close
examination of the culprit itself.
If we “psychoanalyse” it and
subject the records to statistical
integration we will know a great
deal more than we know now.
The humble raingauge may yet
come into its own as the camera
that will photograph the
behavior of weather and thus
lead us to an understanding of
its variations. Rainfall is the
first chapter in the story of
water, and we must read it well.
The Water Research Founda-
tion, established last year, hopes
to encourage research into the
various aspects of too much and
too little water. Everyone must
agree that it is high time some-
thing was done about this
problem, and we on the W.R.F.
hope for the co-operation of
landowners and businessmen.
C. J. Wiesner (Secretary,
Water Research Foundation).
Cowpox
“E.M.U.”: Cowpox, an irri-
tating disease both to the farmer
and the cow, is often regarded
too lightly—it may develop into
mastitis.
A virus causes cowpox. How
the disease is spread is not
certain, but it often shows in a
herd shortly after a new cow is
brought in.
When a cow has pox tiny
pimples appear on the udder and
teats. A few days later, 10-20
small pimples may show-up.
These tiny pimples then develop
into blisters, which often become
infected and filled with pus. In
severe cases, the blisters, or
lesions, run together, and in
eight to 10 days form large scabs.
Milking irritates the sores, and
they sometimes bleed. If these
sores irritate the teat-canal, then
cows may develop mastitis.
If cowpox breaks-out in a
herd, separate infected cows, and
milk them last. Disinfect the
dairy and the milking-machines
to keep the pox under control.
To prevent further spread and
relieve the cow of pain, wash the
teats and udder with a chlorine
solution after each milking.
Then cover the affected area with
a bland ointment containing
sulfathiazole. If this is done
after each milking the lesions will
soon disappear.
Cowpox is often transmitted to
humans. There are two kinds,
and, though one is more likely
to be picked-up by humans than
the other, it is difficult to tell
them apart. Poxlike lesions
appear on hands and arms of
infected people. They should be
treated with Whitfield’s oint-
ment; after one infection, the
same person is unlikely to get
cowpox again.
Nowra Show
In the 80 years that the Shoal-
haven A. and H. Association has
held a show at Nowra there can
rarely have been a wetter one
than this year. Even with the
extraordinarily heavy rain, how-
ever, the show drew a large
crowd and a strong lot of
exhibitors, although some of the
latter had to withdraw because of
the danger of flooding on their
farms by the Shoalhaven River.
Friesians are the principal
breed at the Nowra Show, and
this year the breed-judge was
Brother Hamilton, studmaster at
the Silesian College, Rupertville,
just north of Melbourne. This
stud has had some excellent pro-
duction- and show-results; last
year it won champion-female
and was also “most successful
exhibitor” at Melbourne Royal.
At Nowra the Friesians did
well in the production-arid-type-
competitions open to all breeds.
First of these was the Permewan
Wright competition for the cow
producing the highest amount of
milk in an official lactation and
subject to an average 3.2 per cent,
butterfat-test. This was won by
the Friesian Westbrook Duchess
(owned by Moss Vale breeder
J. H. Wilson), with 19,5541 b.
of milk. A. E. Garrety and
Sons’ Ayrshire Broughton Farm
Miss Muffet was second,
17,1151 b., and Wilson’s Mount
Broughton Dekol third, 14,9491 b.
Second special prize was the
Horlick’s Championship Cup.
A butterfat competition, this is
judged on the basis of 100 points
for reaching age-standard and
10 points for every 51b. above.
The winner normally takes pride-
of-place in the Grand Parade,
but if this had been held this
year the winner would have had
to be a champion swimmer as
well. Garretys’ Miss Muffet
won, with 861 points; F. A.
Mclntosh’s Ayrshire Woodside
Park Judy’s Own second, 856
points ; R. A. Henry and Sons’
A.I.S. Numbaa Leigh Sunkist
third, 846 points.
Third special prize was the
John Darling and Son Pty., Ltd.,
award for the supreme champion
dairy cow of the show —similar
to the one presented at Berry.
It was judged on production and
type, with all milk brought to a
4 per cent, fat-corrective basis
to allow all breeds to compete


"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
k o r Id-
jam o u 3
“FARMERS’
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
&:
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach -
ments that interest you:
Ji.S.W. : Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
S. ACS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND : Buzacott’s. (Q’land) Ltd ,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ctd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HE HAS A
RUPTU
. . . BOX HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BARRERB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You w£tX at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all Who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3g), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
m
nSm>
MM
Holden Utility tops Australian sales because
YOU GET IDEAL POWER, ECONOMY, DEPENDABILITY
AND LOAD SPACE FOR ONLY £B5O (plus tax)
Holden Utility tops Australian
sales because it is designed and
I built specifically for Australian
conditions. Only Holden Utility
offers you a combination of 6-cylinder
21 h.p. performance, exceptional dura-
bility, generous 75F long load space and
the 30 m.p.g. economy reported by so
many owners. Holden Utility, too, has
won a wide-spread reputation because of
its high resale value, because it is easy to
service, and because low-cost, factory-
guaranteed spare parts
are available through-
out Australia.
This extract from a
letter written by Mr.
T. Boulger, of Western
Taxi Trucks, Military
Road, Henley Beach,
HOLDEN*
Australia*s Own Utility
•registered trade mark
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
S.A., tells of his satisfaction with Holden.
Eighteen months have passed since I
bought my last Holden Utility , during
winch it has been subjected to 44,000 ndles
of taxi truck operation ...
The petrol mileage has been consistently
between 30-31 m.p.g. . . . Although the
Holden has been left out in all weathers,
it has never failed me, one press of the
starter is sufficient at all times . . .**
Let us prove that Holden Utility offers
you the best combination of power, de-
pendability, economy
and load space.
Also may me suggest
that, in view of the
continuing heavy
demand for Holden,
you place an early
order .
Ll9B
Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMAC.
“Air Chief” is the only car radio approved by GMH Engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED '
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
equally. Points awarded, 100
maximum for type and one point
for every 501 b. above the basic
12,0001 b. Garretys’ Miss Muffet
won narrowly from Wilson’s
Westbrook Duchess, with the
A.I.S. Numbaa Leigh Sunkist
third.
The three competitions were
interesting, as in the first two,
where there was no fat-cor-
rective and no points for type,
the Friesian won the milk-pro-
duction and an Ayrshire won the
butterfat, but when these two
cows met in the third competi-
tion under the fat-corrective
conditions, the Ayrshire scored
116.12 points for production
against the Friesian’s 110.18, and
the latter scored three more
points for type than the Ayrshire
Miss Muffet, but failed to catch
her.
The importance of these type-
points should only be apparent
when two cows produce almost
the same quantity of four-per-
cent. milk, and then they should
be judged for type, not as breed-
cows, but as dairy-cows.
Generally speaking, a Friesian
should always win the milk-pro-
duction prize, but the butterfat-
prizes favor the smaller, high-
testing breeds; the third prize
for production and type will give
the best cow of all breeds at the
show.
In the general judging there
was one very pleasant feature:
prizes in each breed-section for
owners who had never won £lO
or more at any previous Nowra
Show. These are worth-while
prizes that encourage news
exhibitors.
John Bridges.
Establishing Clovers
From S. T. Hauson, of Falcon
Cliff, Foster (Vic.):
“Clover’s” interesting account of
his experience establishing clovers
on poor country under the guidance
of H. A. J. Pittman prompts me to
give some details of my own experi-
ence on very poor, hard, stony and
sour hills in the Hurstbridge district,
24 miles from Melbourne, in 1952.
For two years, with a direct-drop
machine, I had spread superphos-
phate, then 50-50 super.-and-lime,
with sub.-clover-seed, and the result
was failure. The seed did not
germinate.
I met Mr. Pittman by accident one
day when I was trying to find the
place where I could have some soil
analysed.
He told me to alter my direct-drop
machine to pair every two exit-holes
on the bottom of the fertiliser-box,
by cutting and fitting tih-chutes, so
as to get a concentration of
fertiliser and seed. Pieces of 2in.
downpipe were fastened to the end
of the tin-chutes, to within 4in. of
the ground. (The following year the
downpipes were removed and rubber-
tubes were used instead, so that the
tubes trailed along the ground.)
These methods produced thick
“ribbons” of fertiliser and seed on
the bare surface of the land. There
was no precultivation—anyway, the
rough, stony ground made cultivation
and the use of a drill impracticable.
Fertiliser was put on at the rate
of 1801 b. to the acre: one part of
super, to three parts of lime, with
lib. of Dwalganup sub.-clover, 21b.
Mt. Barker sub.-clover, and 21b. of
suckling-, cluster- and white-clovers,
mixed. All were inoculated with the
correct bacteria.
Within four weeks the young plants
were up, and in the early spring there
was a mass of growth, up to 18in.
high. One sub.-clover-runner picked
at random was 571 m. long Mr.
Pittman hung this in his office.
In the one year the carrying-
capacity went from threequarters of
a dry sheep to the acre to two
breeding ewes to the acre, at a cost
of 30s. pet* acre, not counting my
labor. The “ribbons” of fertiliser
and seed were 12jn. apart. After one
year of established clovers, the
grasses grew in abundance, including
Wimmera-rye, which had been put
out in 1951 (the year before) by
direct-drop method, but would not
grow.
In the following years the clovers
improved and white-clover persisted
and spread rapidly.
Chain-system Shearing
“Graz”: The principle of
machine-shearing sheep hasn’t
altered much in the last 70 years,
but a Queensland grazier, John
Borthwick, of Quilpie, has now
invented a shearing-table which
might mean the first revolu-
tionary advance since machines
replaced the blades.
His aim is to apply the chain-
system to shearing, so that even
a girl could do the job. Sheep
will be mechanically delivered
on to the shearing-table and
there held by a cradle in various
positions while being shorn.
After passing along the chain
of shearing - processes, the
animals would be released and
go dawn a chute. An incidental
advantage of the system is that
sweat-locks and fribs drop from
the table to the floor during the
shearing-process, thus keeping
the fleece-lines cleaner.
Crutching Schools
“Lucilia”: The S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s schools to
train sheepowners in the full art
of crutching have the object of
improving lamb-marking per-
centages as well as the control
of blowflies.
On many properties crutching
is regarded as one of the minor
jobs of the year, and is done as
quickly as possible, without due
attention to thoroughness or
quality.
It is now realised that the
value of crutching is limited
unless sheep are crutched well
over the tail, to make sure blow-
flies have no striking-places in
the crutch-area ; and well around
the udder for lambs, to get a
life-giving drink instead of what
has often been a death-dealing
lump of daggy wool.
The Turnip Family
“Hortus”: Late-January and
February and March sowings
will produce the best results with
turnip-crops. , *
Turnips being shallow-rooters,
thorough preparation of the
land is needed —deep ploughing
about two months before sow-
ing, and then a light re-plough
in the New Year. Almost any
soil will suit.
It’s best not to tackle these
roots where rainfall is below an
annual average of 20in. Cool
conditions are favorable to quick
development, which is impera-
tive, because aphis-attacks ruin
early growth.
Use 21b. of seed in drills per
acre, plus |cwt. to lcwt. super.;
thin-out, when young plants are
about 2in. high. Keep ground
cultivated between rows to pre-
vent weed-growth and to aid
moisture-retention.
The crop may be left ip ground
to be eaten out by sheep during
winter, using portable fences, or
it may be trimmed and stored in
pits—rhade by stacking roots in
long pyramidal heaps covered
with straw and soil.
No farmer in England would
be without these pits, for the
almost-universal fodder during
winter is chopped mangel-wurzel
mixed with chaffed hay and
wheaten or oaten strayv. The
roots make the dry-feed more
succulent and palatable.
Analysis shows: wafer 88,
carbohydrates 8, ash 1, protein 1,
fibre 1, fat .2. The percentage of
water is high, but dry-matter
is practically all digestible.
There’s almost always need
for succulent feed in winter and
early spring, especially for ewes
approaching lambing or with
lambs at foot. What’s more, the
seed for these crops is cheap.
Animal Manures
“Bacto”: Some growers swear
by poultry- and pig-manures;
others prefer sheep-, cow- or
horse-manure.
The answer depends on
whether mineral- or humus-con-
stituents of the manure are
required. A pig fed on milk
gives a manure rich in nitrogen,
while a horse fed on straw pro-
duces a fibrous manure poor in
nitrogen but rich in humus-
material.
The pig-manure would force
a leafy growth, while the horse-
manure would produce only a
poor plant-response immediately,
though it would certainly add
much more resistant humus-
material to the soil. The horse-
manure would be the shot if
you wanted to improve the tex-
ture and the moisture-holding
qualities of the soil.
The merits of animal-manures
depend on the diets of the
animals, rather than on their
species.
Farm Hints
“Wilco”: When pigs have the
run of large paddocks in parts
of Queensland, make sure they
don’t get to zamia-palms. The
fallen ripe nuts of these trees
are poisonous to them. Poison
is not necessary to get rid of
the zamias. Bore a hole in the
top of each and pour in some
water, which will rot the trunk.
If the things are too tall, axe
the tops and treat the stumps,
Zamias are also toxic to poultry,
and, when the fronds are eaten
in quantity, to cattle.
“W. Court”: If kangaroo-
shooters are on your land, warn
them against leaving tins that
have contained arsenic lying
around when shifting camp.
They must poison all skins
against weevils, and the only safe
place for an arsenic-tin is under
2ft. of earth. Arsenic is as
attractive to horses as to cattle.
“Bill C”: When transplant-
ing cabbage, tomato or any of
the larger, more important
veges., always stir a handful of
balanced fertiliser into the soil
below, no matter how much
farm-manure or green-manur-
ing material has been worked-in
earlier. This starts the plants
off smartly. Sprinkle another
handful of cutworm-bait over
the topsoil.
“Billjim”: Best way to deal
with grasshoppers in suburban
gardens is to attack them
between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. On
plants not used for food, 8.H.C.,
at a strength of 2 fl. oz. of 7
per cent, emulsion in 4gals.
water; on plants used for food,
lindane at a strength of 1 fl. oz.
of 16 per cent, in 4gals. water.
Four gallons of diluted
spray will cover 200 square-yards
of lawn if applied with a knap-
sack-spray. Three gallons will
be necessary for a fruit-tree.
“Turk”: If maize is grown
as greenfeed for poultry, don’t
wait till it becomes tough and
unpalatable. Cut when young
and tender, it will grow again
and provide further cuttings.
“Winno”: When sending
poultry on long rail-trips, use
railway-coops in preference to
the home-made variety. They are
strongly-made of heavy cane,
and stand up to heavy pressure
and travelling-risks.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(12/2/’56)
The large sunspot has led to an intensification of
rains—usual when a large and active sunspot appears
during the monsoon season.
Reasonably good rains are likely on the north coast of
Queensland during March, but patchy and varying from
light to moderate elsewhere.
N. S. Wales should receive moderate falls on the
coast during March, with heavy rains on the southern table-
lands; the western division only light rains with little general
relief until June.
The southern half of Victoria should receive moderate
rains during March; light elsewhere.
Light rain is likely in S.A., apart from moderate falls
in the east-central and upper-south-east.
In W.A. there should be good rains from the Kimberleys
to the goldfields area and also on the south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


Federated Ironworkers with
the design of establishing that
he was not a person “not of
general bad character,” and to
test his credibility. The only
evidence he used to support
himself, apart from own say-so,
was documentary. Documents
were also the only evidence
tendered by the union.
In summing it all up after-
wards, the salient facts which
appealed to the commissioners
were, firstly, that, “according to
the evidence before us, from
1936-50, besides being engaged
on duties as Federal (or
national) secretary of the Iron-
workers’ Association, the appli-
cant was also engaged on
activities as a member and
official of the Communist
party”; secondly, that in his
Communist capacity he was
guilty of certain acts and utter-
ances which they held to affect
his character.
For instance, they declared
that in June, 1941, “he sup-
ported a resolution at the
annual conference of the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade
Unions that ‘congress declares
that the war which is spreading
throughout the world is a
struggle between the imperialist
Powers for the possession of
colonies, markets and sources
of raw material.’ ”
The commissioners found that
in the same year, in an address
to the council of the Iron-
workers’ Federation, he
appeared to have said (he
admitted in the box that “it
sounds like what I said”): “We
have seen in the last twelve
months the greatest wave of
strikes in the history of our
union,” and had gone on to
enumerate the strikes, all con-
cerned with war-production, or
budding-operations preliminary
to war-production, culminating
in stoppages at Port Kembla,
Whyalla and Cockatoo Dock.
In 1942, they recorded, he
published a booklet called
‘Trades Unions and the War,”
of which they used extended
extracts to form an appendix to
the judgment, including his
theses that “arms would prob-
ably be used again by the
workers of this country”; that
if workers adopted a pacifist
attitude in the class-struggle it
would be the end of the workers
and working-class struggle ; that
strikes are a continuation of violent,
or non-violent, forms of the class-
struggle that is always with us.
Strikes concern this union always and
just as strikes are a continuation of
the class-struggle that is on all the
time, so this war is a continuation
of politics by other weapons... .The
tyjjp of politics involved determines
the character of the war and
determines our attitude to it, not the
question of whether the war is violent
or involves bloodshed or anything
else.
Also, the judges noticed his
assertion that the character of
the war had changed because
“the workers’ Russia is now in
the war, because the workers’
Red Army now guarantees the
defeat of the Nazis and now
guarantees a democratic
peace”:—
How could the workers trust the
people who alone led the Allies before
June 22, 1941 [when Russia was
attacked] people who had all
their lives been opposed to the
working-class. . .
He said:
[The entry of Japan] did not alter
the character of the war....We do
not look on the question of mortal
danger to Australia in the way some
people do. Let me issue a warning
against the attitude of some people
to the Labor movement who take the
attitude that, irrespective of what the
situation is in the various theatres of
the war, we should demand assistance
for Australia....
We have decided that we have a
new attitude to the war and a new
attitude to production... .we cam-
paigned to avoid strikes, with the
result that we have been surprisingly
successful, when we remember that
our union has deliberately and in a
planned way been involved in more
strikes than other unions in the last
few years.
These were not just the sporadic
strikes that are typical of the coal-
fields, but planned strikes, because
we made strikes our business. We
believe the strike weapon is the most
important weapon the working-class
has....
Commission's Review
Regarding that last and some
other material which it reviewed
at length, and his conduct in
fleeing to Peking and the finding
of Mr. Justice Dunphy, with
the evidence which produced it,
the Industrial Commission
“proceeded to consider whether
the applicant had established to
our satisfaction that he is a
person not of general bad
character.”
The onus lay on Thornton to
do this, but the only evidence
directed to prove his good
character was his own
assertion:
Mr. Hill: Are you a man of good
character?
Thornton: Yes.
This evidence, the commis-
sioners remarked, would assist
the applicant’s case “only if we
were prepared to accept it.”
But, for reasons which they set
out, they “were not prepared to
accept his uncorroborated
statement.”
They had, indeed, reached the
conclusion that on a number of
occasions during his cross-
examination, when he was
asked a question, he was
“willing to 'hedge, prevaricate,
and, if necessary, ultimately lie,
in order to avoid the truth.”
They found that he did this
when confronted with the
passage in which Lenin, in his
1920 thesis on “Left Wing
Communism,” advised Com-
munists that, in order to worm
their way into trade-unions
against opportunist opposition,
it was necessary to “agree to
every sacrifice, and even, if
need be, to resort to all sorts of
devices, manoeuvres, and illegal
methods, to evasion and subter-
fuge, in order to penetrate into
the trade-unions, to remain in
them, and to carry on Commun-
ist work in them at all costs.”
Thornton held that this was
intended to apply only in the
Russian revolutionary position,
whereas, the commissioners
found, he must have known that
the remarks were specifically
addressed to Communists of the
West and were, as Lenin him-
self wrote, “to apply to Western
Europe whatever is of general
application.”
They pointed out that Thorn-
ton had “been a member of the
Communist party more than
twenty years, a man of consider-
able ability and an exponent of
Communist doctrine in the
party’s theoretical organ, the
‘Communist Review.’ ” They
found it especially likely that he
was deliberately attempting to
deceive them by his evidence,
since an article by him in the
“Communist Review” (Septem-
ber, 1954) contained “an exposi-
tion of Communist tactics in
relation to trade-unions in Aus-
tralia which bears. an extra-
ordinary resemblance to some
of the doctrines contained in
Chapter VI of Lenin’s work.”
The tactics, it may be said in
passing, were also very much
like those of 1955, as Thornton’s
strike-tactics were exactly in
line with those of the Water-
siders and other Communist-run
or Communist-influenced unions
using the strike-weapon as a
bludgeon in 1956.
Communist Control
The commissioners mention a
second matter which sealed their
distrust of Thornton, concerning
a speech which he made at the
15th National Congress of the
Australian Communist Party
(July, 1948), which contained the
following passage:
Only two officials of the A.L.P.
are officials of the [Federated Iron-
workers] union. But the Communist
party is in different relationship with
the union. Many officials are mem-
bers of the party. This shows the
great authority of the Communist
party with this union; and is the
general policy of the union that
decided in, consultation with the
leaders of the Labor party? No.
The policy of the Ironworkers Union
is decided in consultation with the
leaders of the Communist party.
The achievements of our union in
the past few years should be credited
to the Communist party. But they
are not so credited because the party
does not appear as the Communist
party to the members of the union.
The achievements of our leadership
are credited to individuals and not
to the party.
Thornton, during his con-
fused attempts to explain this
specific statement in terms of
meaning other than the obvious
ones, agreed that, as national-
secretary of the union, he had
been in the habit of conferring
with the Communist-party
leadership; but he said that the
results of such conferences were
submitted to the members of the
union, and he alleged that, in
his speech, he had not meant
to convey that the policy of
the union was decided by the
Communist party.
When asked on what sort of
questions he had sought the
advice of the Communist party,
he admitted that he consulted
them, for instance, as to
“whether they thought that
economic developments would
be good enough to warrant
us buying a building down in
George-street, and their advice
was that they did not think we
could lose, which was proved
correct subsequently.”
He also admitted that the
kind of consultations with the
Communist party which he had
mentioned in 1948 included
“campaigns of various kinds;
campaigns for higher wages and
better conditions and better
safety-measures and so on I
asked the advice of Mr. Sharkey
in particular, who has very long
experience in the trade-union
movement.”
To understand the significance
of this it must be understood
that in 1948 Clayton, head of the
Communist party’s Control
Commission, was the Soviet’s
principal spy in Australia, as
shown by the Petrov Commis-
sion. Mr. Sharkey, be it noted,
one day later was informed at
a meeting by an agent of the
Soviet Embassy that he was ill
and that the Soviet Union pro-
posed to send him to Moscow
for treatment and a holiday—
just in time to speak at the
Communist conference. The
same Mr. Sharkey later received
$25,000 by official courier from
the Soviet Union, according to
the finding of the Petrov Com-
mission judges.
Mr. Thornton told the Indus-
trial Commissioners: “I asked
his [Sharkey’s] advice whether I
should put such a proposition
[as those he enumerated above]
to the council of the union, but
whatever came out of that
always had to be submitted to
the council” —who, of course,
under Mr. Thornton’s system of
forged ballots and electoral
fraud, were naturally all Com-
munists, except two, and thus,
to use Comrade Thornton’s own
admission, each “expected to do
what the [Communist] party
committee directed him to do.”
The commissioners did not
believe him when he alleged, in
the face of his own evidence and
his own writings, that he
sought advice from the Com-
munist party only in the same
way as it might be sought from
the Labor party, and that the
union determined its policy in
his time independently of advice
given by political parties, even
though it asked the Communist
party to advise.
They doubted that “the Com-
munist party did not give any
instructions to its members
which would interfere with the
union’s policy.”
And as it was found that “the
applicant was clearly untruthful
in some of his evidence,” their
Honors were unwilling to accept
his uncorroborated testimony
that he was a man of good
character; and it followed that
there was no evidence before
them that he was a man “not of
general bad character.”
Certainly, they said, they
doubted, on other evidence, that
he was a man of good reputation
in the community, though it was
not for them to determine in the
issue that he was actually a man
of bad reputation. They simply
were “not prepared to make any
assumption that he was a man
of good reputation”:
When we look at all this material
we have no doubt that the views of
Mr. Thornton and his conduct in
the years 1939 to 1941 were disloyal.
We also have no doubt that in this
community persons holding such dis-
loyal views and expressing them are
not regarded as persons of good
repute we would not be willing
to make any assumption as to the
good reputation of a person who
left the country in such circumstances
as Mr. Thornton left Australia in
1950 for abroad, knowing that an
inquiry into alleged irregularities in
a ballot for positions in the Iron-
workers’ Union was in progress, and
knowing that, in the proceedings,
fraud was alleged against him.
Current Strikes
Since the Industrial Commis-
sion supported the Ironworkers’
Federation’s contention that
Comrade Thornton was not a
fit person to be a member of the
union, it has been announced
in the Communist press, under
headings which are tribute
enough to Thornton’s standing
in the movement, that he has
been admitted to the Granville
branch of the F.E.D.F.A.
(Federated Engine Drivers and
Firemen’s Association), a union
largely under Communist leader-
ship.
The organiser who sponsored
him pointed out that the union
had “never discriminated against
applicants for membership
because of their religious and
political beliefs,” and he lauded
Thornton as having helped to
raise the Ironworkers’ organisa-
tion to the position of a power-
ful fighting union. The State
president of the F.E.D.F.A.
supported Thornton’s nomina-
tion, and there was “only one
dissenter.”
The whole of Thornton’s
history throws a spotlight on
Communist - party leadership’s
character and on the origins of
the kind of strikes which are
currently being so eagerly
implemented with the obvious
intention of wrecking the
arbitration - system and the
Federal Government; perhaps
even the national economy,
in the interests of a foreign
Power which is every day
edging the world nearer to the
precipice of war.
Current industrial events are
singularly like in nature to those
which Mr. Thornton and his
fellow-members of the Commun-
ist Central Committee made
“their business” in the early
years of World War 11.
be stacked near the nailing-
down bench; and the shed to
be cleaned-up.
During the season they use
about a thousand boxes a week,
and the local millers are kept
busy keeping-up with the
demand. Sometimes they don’t
keep-up, and then there is
chaos, and telephone-wires run
hot, 'like the tempers behind
them.
You get interrupted by people
wanting peaches for bottling.
Peaches for the kids.
“How much?”
“Did you bring your own
box?”
Boxes are money these days,
at 2s. Bd. each.
They stare at us. We’re not
glamorous, just doing a job.
They pick: over the fruit,
expecting first-grade stuff for a
couple-of-boj?. They move the
biggest from other boxes to
theirs. The boss has a fair idea
what they’re up to.
They ask you to carry boxes
out to their cars. One season
we had a man from Latvia who
nearly ran himself poor trying
to carry his quota of cases and
ours too. He has his own place
now, down Penrith way. He
was a gentleman, and his
thoughtfulness still gives us a
warm feeling round the heart.
Jt's not the wdgfafaatgeu yon
tn the end, but trying to swmg
the loaded kerosene-cases on to
the lorrv
*
The Cutler clacks and clicks,
At the nailing-down bench the
rhythm of the nails going into
fte Ms goes tap, SMACK.
Youget ttred Your legs ache
behind the knees. You lean
harder against {he bench, and
collect a bruise from a badly-
placed bolt, which has already
worn out two patches on the
old shorts. Your back feels as
if it is someone else’s—someone
a lot older than you are. You
get itchy in the bends of the
elbows and round the neck.
Your eyes tend to get glassy,
your actions automatic. The
pick-up lorry comes and saves
your life.
The load has to be tallied so
that the agents will know how
many of each size and grade
there are to sell. Everyone helps
load-up, keeping the labels to
the outside. It makes for an
attractive load if the labels are
any good, and the carriers take
quite a pride in it.
The fruit used to go by rail,
and in those days the station-
yard was a sight—horse-teams
and motor-lorries from all found
the district, waiting their turn
to load into the big bogy-
louvres ; men from the waiting
loads helping the chap in front,
so that they could unload
quickly.
But there was too much
double - handling, delays at
Darling Harbor, or trains
coming in too late to catch the
market. Now the fruit is
picked-up at the orchard and
taken direct to the markets, and
arrives in first-class condition ...
The tally-sheet is slipped into
the marked case, the last nail
is slammed in, the day’s quota
filled. It may be .200 or 400.
The more it is, the tireder you
feel.
You sit down and eat a peach,
maybe. The first moment of
the day when there has been
time. About now you hear a
terrific banging from the back
of the shed.
“His lordship wants a peach,”
says Joe.
It is even so. He is a big bay
draughthorse. Not getting as
much work as he used to since
mechanisation, but still useful
in lots of ways where machinery
lets you down. He likes
peaches. If the boys forget him
he lets them know by kicking
boxes around his yard or bang-
ing on the door of the shed.
We take him out a handful,
and he slobbers gratefully over
everything within reach, spitting
out stones when you’re quite
sure they have been swallowed.
From the cow-paddock comes
a prolonged bellow. The boys
pack-up and go home.
The boss grins at us and says,
“Not bad for a couple of city
slickers. Will you be up next
weekend?”
“Will you need us?”
“Well,, if this weather keeps
up —you know how it is . , •
Peaches won’t wait.”


Important books at prices you can afford
Join MORGANS BOOK CLUB
• THE AUSTRALIAN THEATRE
by Paul D. McGuire. Tastefully, illustrated, this
is the best groundwork of the Australian theatre
ever done. For members only 6/- posted.
• LORD ARTHUR SAVILLE’S CRIME, by
Oscar Wilde. Illustrated large edition in
special slip-in case. Usually 26/9, members’
price only 5/6 posted.
• PLAIN OR RINGLETS, by R. S. Surtees,
with illustrations by John Leech. Usually
38/9, to members only 26/6 posted.
« THE RESTORATION CARNIVAL, by
V. de Sola Pinto. A classic Biography-
Anthology of the Courtier Poet's of the
Restoration period. Ordinarily 23/6,
members’ price 15/9 posted.
• THE GRAZIER’S HANDBOOK,
by A. V. Coles, one of the best known
Veterinarians in Australia. Published
1955. Usually 35/11, to members
25/9 posted.
• ALIEN SON, by Judah Waten.
Story of an immigrant family. Ordi-
nary price 15/9, members’ price 7/9
posted.
HOW TO BECOME A MEMBER
You may join at once, merely by
ordering and paying for a minimum
of THREE of the above titles.
MORGANS
BOOK SHOP
8 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney
I wish to become
NAME
ADDRESS
a member and forward herewith
for the three choices included.
THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
H.M.s. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
Now available again from all booksellers
sNmoo
PUBLISHERS
THE COMPLETE SHORT STORIES
of D. H. Lawrence
3 Volumes - each 13/3
At all booksellers
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
OUTSTANDING WAR BOOK!
THE BIG LIE
by -John Baker White. This hook gives
a brilliant picture of a little-known
part of the war. It tells of the rumours
and deceptions which helped to trick
the enemy into making false moves, to
undermine the enemy’s morale and to
strengthen Resistance Movements in
Occupied Territory. Ulus.
23/6 (post lid.)
GUNBOAT 658
by li. C. Reynolds. Gunboat 658 served
for two years—from tbe fall of Tunisia
to tbe German surrender —in Mediter-
ranean waters. She was manned almost
entirely by amateur sailors —both
officers and men, and her exciting story
is told by a man who served in her
through all her adventures. Ulus.
20/- (post 1/1)
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. : : 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Ware’s patience being exhausted, he
sent over a bullock-team with chains
to remove the building. The owner
had it re-erected on the opposite side
of the creek, and at the next land-
sales took the precaution to select
the ground-site.
In fact, chains and blocks-and-tackle
seem the only threat feared by publi-
cans of those days. When Ararat was
being laid - out the Government-
surveyor stood out for a main-street
(Barkly-street) 90ft. wide:—
In spite of a heavy fine, one man
obstinately refused to remove his
hotel from the centre of the surveyed
road. When men arrived with
block-and-tackle and prepared to
pull the building down, Mr. Leopold
was induced to change his mind.
The hotel, which he built facing the
Town Hall square, has been since a
landmark in Ararat.
No history of an Australian district
is complete without its dire stories of
the war between squatters and selec-
tors: Miss Banfield has a few bright
pictures of land-ballots and dummy-
ing:—
Near at hand a group of squatters
stood watching the scramble for the
land on which their flocks had
grazed for the past 20 years. One
of them held eight certificates and
had 40 men to select for him. Twelve
of his men were called and they
took up nearly 4000 acres, chiefly
in timber country.
But by the turn of the century the
squatters were so bogged-down with
labor-troubles that many were pleased
enough to let Mr. Arthur Murphy, of
Ararat, cut up part or all of their
properties—with the result that buyers
of land considered agriculturally-poor
were paying it off from the returns of
one season’s wheat-crop.
And old Cranky Jim, who received
a note, “Send the old, fool further on,”
instead of a payoff cheque, returned
from near the Murray to thrust a shear-
blade into the young station-superin-
tendent who gave it to him; and when
a claim-jumper wouldn’t come up from
the mine the committee threatened to
fill it in on him; and a Chinese camp,
based on miner’s right, held-out near
the centre of Ararat until 1899, when
it was mysteriously burned-down; and
dances at the huge stone county-jail,
completed in 1861, were most popular:
and in the late ’6o’s Ararat’s waning
trade revived because of the Govern-
ment’s £60,000 mental-hospital; and in
1864, White, of Landsborough, bowled
W. G. Grace for a duck, after which
the English captain, Tarrant, took on,
it seems singlehanded, an Ararat XI,
and after being half-killed by a ball
from White, went on to score 73 and a
drawn-game.
This, too, was the district of Thomas
Biggin, the Kiora postmaster, with his
famous swivel-gun, bolted to his flat-
bottomed boat, which spurted flame
and smoke for half-a-chain across Lake
Buninjon when “Tom the Shooter”
fired it, and murdered from 20 to 30
birds at a firing; and of Kiora plough-
ing-matches; and of the Blampieds and
Trouettes, who established a fine winery
at St. Peter’s, whose heir died a few
months after his father, rescuing a boy
from the fumes of a wine-vat; and the
district of the Great Western vineyard
and cellars; and of Pomonal’s apple-
orchards and disastrous experiment
with tobacco, ended by a tariff-decision
in 1933.
There is an appendix of sheep-
stations; of former tribal-districts; of
native placenames; of dates in Ararat’s
history; an honor-roll of those killed
in both World Wars and an index; but,
except for the rather sketchy end-
papers, the book lacks a good map.
Reviewed Briefly
The Opposing Self: Lionel Trilling
(Seeker and Warburg). The author of
these nine essays in criticism is Profes-
sor of English at Columbia University,
U.S.A. The essays are mostly from
introductions to standard-editions; they
present a different view of Keats from
Matthew Arnold’s—as a hero; a most
informative portrait of George Orwell;
a consideration of Flaubert’s idea of
the bourgeois, in which he opines that
Flaubert had more respect for them
than is popularly supposed; and a
comparison of “the Law as the Rabbis
understood it and Nature as Words-
worth understood it.” Other essays
are on Dickens, William Dean Howells,
Henry James and Jane Austen. Alto-
gether they are anything but “standard
introductions”; he freshens whatever he
touches.
* * * #
Icon and Idea: Herbert Read
(Faber). Seven chapters on “the
function of art in the development of
the human consciousness,” based on
lectures given at Harvard, U.S.A., in
1953-54. Sir Herbert Read is one of
the foremost English theorists of
modern art, and the Jater chapters of
this book make his position plainer,
perhaps, than he has previously made
it; the modern artist, he considers, has
entirely abandoned imitation, and has
begun to create what, presumably, has
never existed. Maybe this will com-
fort those who are worried at not being
able to “recognise” pictures at exhi-
bitions. At the back of the book 88
plates of art, from cave-drawings to
Mondrian, Pevsner and Arp, illustrate
his theory of development.
* * * *
The Sleeping Tiger: Maurice Moisei-
witch (Heinemann). Psychiatrist and
his sophisticated wife take an 18-year-
old delinquent into their home in an
endeavor to prove that a cultural
environment can effect a better reform
than Borstal. Frank, the delinquent,
does end-up more-or-less cured of his
mental sickness; but what happens to
psychiatrist and wife? If you’ve read
any of a dozen similar novels or seen
any of a dozen films on this theme you
know the answer . . . isn’t worth
knowing.
* * * *
The Whispering Gallery: John
Lehmann (Longmans). Best known to
the world as editor of “New Writing,”
Mr. Lehmann, son of a British Liberal
M.P., is by page 95 of this auto-
biography playing the Wall Game at
Eton, with George Orwell scoring;
then come accounts of his friendships
with the Bloomsbury crowd, the
Woolfs, the Bells, the Frys; and then
with Spender, Auden and Isherwood.
In 1935, “haunted by the feeling that
time was running out before a new
world war,” he sold the idea of “New
Writing” to The Bodley Head, agree-
ing to a limit of £6O-a-number for both
editorial-expenses and contributors’
and translators’ fees, a sum he always
exceeded, having the deficiency made-
up by his mother. The book is full of
the political excitement, mostly Leftist,
of those times, and ends with a survey
of the disillusionment of the young
English writers of between-wars with
Communism.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 370
Across
I—The1 —The unbearded appeal and
attraction of the cowboy country,
with Mae’s bid. (9)
6 —Just the fellow to nudge Electro-
lytic Zinc. (5)
9 —A little sleep to beg for an
affirmative reason for the doctor’s
absence? (2,5, l, 3)
10— It may be useful for dusting
student’s prank. (3)
11 — Here is a Horse Pistol’s Associ-
ate at the First Town in N.S.W.
near Cobar. (7) ,
12 — The 10th man out is this absent
cobbling equipment, but show
better stamina. (7)
13 — Telephoned step for a rising
fireman? (4)
14— Coops the East and North
Carolina epochs. (7)
17 — Father’s in step. (3)
18 — Despite the disc, her ziff can’t
do without such playful move-
ments. (7)
19— Lout mixed a balsam. (4)
23 —A corner of this continent
American general, and what he
might have said to General
Grant. (7)
25 —All the morning by a town on
the shores of Lake Geneva. (7)
26 — A matter of course to a mineral
spring. (3) . ,
27 — Government revenue jn heavenly
body cutters. (6, 5)
28 — In company with a dog of most
questionable pedigree. (5)
29 Imitated Rip Van Winkle,
because the squalid part of a
city is to be Communist. (9)
Down
1 — The Queen has drunk the tea
curtailer of the dog’s freedom.
(7)
2 A Rough Range settlement noted
for its boring time of tragedy.
(9)
3 Work over a dog to the North,
and resist. (6)
4 Flattened Mrs. Adam Kelly. (6)
5 Frogs (not meaning the French)
used to be such -tea publicity on
other Europeans. (8)
6 The credit of Miss Nichols taken
in hand by a plane pilot. (8)
7 Where the rhumba is in place.
(5)
8— Lizzy got Esme’s middle cells
from which new individuals grow.
(7)
15— Dogo producer is such a com-
panionable fellow. (4, 5)
16— Cultivate fish when behaving like
angry dogs. (8)
17 — Steps around the hotel craft. (8)
18—Part of Germany where Lassie
and I are hiding. (7)
20 — Nude son is disorderly and not
scented. (7)
21 — Parent horseshoe doubled an
African trouble-maker. (3-3)
22 Bath is long in the tooth vessel
which isn’t A 1 at Lloyds. (3, 3)
24 —A considerable time to muse. (5)
Solution to -Crossword No. 369


pu'.
S" *
! <r». -
CABAllfflO
constant quality
constant quality
constant quality
i IC-ISAR ETT.ES I
&
.
■
ill!!
Imsll
w
: .. f:
m
An jm ported_cigarette
of fine USA tobaccos
