

.
/
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
' ■ i
A WANDERING SCOT —PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 —No. 3964
Wednesday February, 1, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
The Bulletin
No. 283: The Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
GRETNA GREEN’S SMITHY WHERE JOHN PEEL AND OTHERS WERE WED.
THOSE who travel north to Scotland from Carlisle almost
their first stop in Scotland at Gretna Green, an unpretentious httle bo
village which, in former years, was the goal of mterprising young c p
from England. Under a Scottish law which existed before 1856, all that was
needed to constitute a legal marriage was a declaration before two wi
of willingness on either side; residential qualifications at that time were no
nec e Th7’blacksmith at Gretna Green, for a consideration, would hastily
perform the rough and ready formalities over his forge, shown m ™ac
panying illustration. The amount of his fee depending upon me nts
the pursuing parents, brisk and lucrative business led to hoSSE?
at Coldstream, Lamberton, and other border vihages. Mter 1856, howe ,
Scottish law required of one of the parties residential .quaUfication of at
least twenty-one days. In 1940 marriage by declaration
illegal but {he Smithy’s Forge at Gretna Green is preserved as a i ehc of ths
romantic past and it, together with other curios, may be viewed for a modest
sum.
One of the famous names associated with Gretna Green was John Peel,
hero of the well-known and well-loved song, and a great foxhunter. In 1/ »
at the age of 20, he fell in love with a girl named Mary White, aged 18,
whose father was a man of considerable property m Cumberland. The banns
were duly published in Caldbeck Church, but the girl s mother believed that
her daughter could do much better for herself and forbade the mairiag .
Whereupon, John Peel saddled his father’s best horse consumed several
pints of his father’s best beer and proceeded to do what his father had done
before him. He arrived under Mary’s window at midnight, took her acioss
his saddle, and galloped into Scotland, where, at Gretna Green, they were
made man and wife.
John Peel died a hundred years ago, in 1854 and was buried at Caldbeck
Church in Cumberland. During the course of his life he migrated to New
Zealand and then to Australia, where he arrived with a capital of ten pounds.
He left many legends and a multitude of relics.


ACCOUNTANCY
A Well-Paid, Secure
Career.
The unexcelled standard of Stott
Tuition and Stott Service has been
well known since 1884.
Every Stott Student enjoys:
• A Thorough and Complete
ACCOUNTANCY EDUCATION for
all Examinations.
• A highly-qualified instructional
Staff of Accountants with years of
Teaching Experience.
• Stott’s Free Employment Bureaux
serve Stott Students in every State for
life. 4
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT HERE AND POST —.
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your Accountancy
Prospectus.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 356)
AGE.
BOOKHCNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
The Red Page
A SPANISH MASTERPIECE
First published about 40 years after
“Wuthering Heights” and now vigor-
ously translated into English by Robert
Graves, Pedro Antonio de Alarcon’s
The Infant with the Globe (Trianon
Press) is so very much like Emily
Bronte’s great novel that it is extraordi-
nary that Graves does not mention the
point in his introduction.
Both the novels are love-stories,
simple, passionate and tragic. Both
are set in remote and barren uplands.
Both carry their intensity to such a
pitch that realistic values no longer
apply and they are to be accepted
poetically, symbolically, as images of
the extreme. Both have outcasts for
their heroes, men obsessed with a
desire for revenge. Both, because of
this revenge-motive, have love and hate
so inextricably entangled that the
supreme crisis of love might also be
understood as the climax of hatred and
revenge—just as it is Heathcliff’s em-
brace when she is ill that precipitates
the death of Cathy, so Manuel Venegas,
Alarcon’s hero, somehow strangles his
Soledad, or cracks her neck, when
finally he embraces her in the public
square before her husband’s eyes.
In both novels the hero is much
given to savage and solitary wander-
ings in the mountains—Manuel hunts
bears. In both novels the hero has to
disappear—Heathcliff, Lord knows
where; Manuel to South America—to
make his fortune in a remarkably short
space of time. In both novels the
savagery of the hero is explained by his
exotic ancestry: Heathcliff is a gipsy,
Manuel a Moor. In both novels, above
all, the final effect is of dark and
beautiful exultation, immortal love
triumphing over the deaths of the
lovers.
There are differences enough be-
tween the two books, apart from the
difference of setting in hot bare Spain
and bleak bare Yorkshire. In
“Wuthering Heights” Cathy is very
much' on stage throughout the book;
Soledad, though exquisitely drawn, is
a Conradian heroine, distant, silent,
enticing, glimpsed at a window or on a
balcony, a pair of black Spanish eyes.
Emily Bronte got into enormous diffi-
culties in the construction of “Wuther-
ing Heights” through the use of her
two narrators, especially that servant-
woman who has to peek through so
many keyholes and tell so many
scandalous and trouble-making tales
that she becomes a most monstrous
creation; Alarcon, using the straight-
forward third-person method, has no
such difficulties and his tragedy is
much more plausibly precipitated by a
malevolent little hunchbacked chemist
whom Robert Graves describes as
“a stock-character from Quevedo —
Dickens also borrowed him for Uriah
Heep.” Notable though Earnshaw is as
the portrait of a drunken bully, “The
Infant with the Globe” is probably
richer in its minor characters, especially
the lovable fat “mass-and-stewpot
priest,” Don Trinidad Muley, who
loves his partridges so dearly and who
tries so hard to control the turbulent
Manuel.
Alarcon has both more humor and a
wider knowledge of life than Emily
Bronte; one doubts if there is any-
where in “Wuthering Heights” a pas-
sage of such clear and satirical under-
standing as in Alarcon’s picture of the
gloomy young intellectual (not
Manuel) in a country town:—
Now, since the beginning of our
turbulent century, there is almost
always to be found in every provin-
cial city of Europe, and especially
in ancient and conservative ones like
this, an organist who dreams of
outshining Rossini, a rhymester who
dreams of outshining Lord Byron,
or a newspaper-reading veterinarian
who dreams of outshining Marat: a
young man, in fact, pale and gloomy,
who avoids mankind and walks alone
through the deserted countryside, a
concentration of thought and bile,
a liver with feet and a hat. He is
the declared enemy of all whom he
sees around him, and moral consul
of everything that is foreign; his
feverish imagination follows the
flights of his favorite celebrated
contemporaries, much as the astro-
nomer follows the progress of the
planets which he is fated never to
visit and which turn indifferently in
the sky without suspecting that such
things as observatories exist.
Of these untimely Mirabeaux,
Napoleons or Balzacs, some die
before they reach the age of twenty,
crushed by their own genius, or by
despair; others descend painfully
to the level of their most vulgar
compatriots and end as clerks to the
Town Council or in some scrivener’s
office; others succeed in taking
flight to the capital city of their
country, be it Paris or Madrid,
Vienna or St. Petersburg, where they
die of hunger, shoot themselves,
or become useless and even more
deplorable failures than those that
have stayed at home, plunging into
the chasm of dishonor down the
steep slope of poverty . . . But a few,
at last, end as great men: academi-
cians, generals, ministers, millionaires
—and bequeath their names to future
generations.
The similarities, nevertheless, out-
weigh these differences. If it was
alone that led Alarcon to write
a Spanish “Wuthering Heights,” it was
an astonishing coincidence.
IJut however it may have originated,
this is truly a great novel, as readable
in its simplicity as it is unforgettable
ip its fierce intensity. From Manuel’s
first glimpse of Soledad, when as a boy
of fourteen he is sitting on a stone
bench glaring balefully at the house
which used to be owned by his father
(the delightfully Quixotic Don Rodrigo)
and of which Soledad’s money-lending
Dad has robbed him, the boy and girl
are doomed to love and disaster; and
though lightened with humor and
diversity, the story moves with beauti-
ful certainty step by step to the climax
. . . Manuel’s first attempt to claim a
kiss from Soledad at the fiesta, where
the highest bidder may embrace any-
one he chooses, and his rage when he
is outbid by t’ r; his threat
to kill anyone o ve to Sole-
dad while he g< to make his
fortune; his dr t when Sole-
dad, to escape a a convent,
has married another man; the suspense
as everyone waits for Manuel to cany
out his threat; the ingenious anti-
climax when the old priest persuades
Manuel quietly to go away again; and
the fatal, improbable, altogether
effective climax when Manuel, after all,
returns to bid again for Soledad at the
fiesta. It is a magnificent story.
Alarcon was also the author of
“The Three-Cornered Hat,” a novel
which became the theme of two comic-
operas and a ballet which is still per-
formed today. He is best known in
Spain, says Graves, for “The Scandal,”
a novel which has a hero strongly
resembling Lord Byron, and which—
despite Robert Graves’s characteristi-
cally churlish remarks about Byron in
the introduction—one would very much
like to see translated.
MORNING SONG
Tree that in darkness stood,
Darker itself than all,
Gathering to its mood
Out of air and quietude
The faint dewfall:
Now to the brighter powers
Renders its sacrifice,
Mixed with the scent of flowers;
Yields through these matin hours
A breath to the skies.
Close by, the native thrush
Draws sound from a clear-toned
well;
Pours through the glittering hush
Of sunrise in the bush
Love’s miracle,
Singing: O men, awake I
How earth waits for your waking!
The Spirit waits too, to make
All things new for your sake,
And your partaking.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.
Bulls and Budgerigars
For their pictures of wild-life in far-
away places parts of Arthur Groom’s
Wealth in the Wilderness (Angus and
Robertson) are full of interest: as
when, for instance, he was drifting in a
boat down the Geikie Gorge on the
Fitzroy River, under the cliffs where
Mr. lon Idriess’s dark friend Pigeon
played hide - and - seek with the
troopers:—
Clear water rippled quietly a fur-
long across to the far bank, green,
dense, wild and still. We moved
over the clear depths above weeds
reaching upwards from the sandy
bottom, and small and large fish in
swift, silent movement. As we
floated quietly wallabies came down
to drink beneath the shelter of trees,
and sat and watched us. In wonder-
ing silence we moved towards the
base of 300 feet of cream-and-red
cliffs, drifted on into gloom beneath
the mass of rock where we could
peer into darkness or out at the
brilliant sun flashing on the water.
Or when he camped under the white
ghost-gums of the Centre, near the
Jasper Gorge, in the amiable company
of donkeys and wild bulls:—
There was the smell of dust and
dead cattle. Wild donkeys were in
the steep gullies, and their devils’
trumpets blew and echoed. The
diabolical honking was a shuddering
accompaniment to the shadowy
mystery of the hills themselves.
Across the unfenced cattle-country
beyond the gorge wild cattle and
donkeys were in their hundreds ....
Camp that night was out in the
open claypan perhaps a hundred
yards across. Bulls pounded the
earth at the edge of the firelight.
They had smelt the small drums of
reserve-water on the car. Their
moaning and the braying of donkeys
prevented sleep. Towards midnight
a brief silence prevailed, but it proved
to be only an overture to more blar-
ing pandemonium.
Or when, at Aghadaghada, which
looks rather less like a mouthful of
broken rock when it is spelt Argardar-
gada, he heard the story of the birds
and beasts in the drought of 1951 (his
own journey was during the same
drought, in 1952): —
Milton Willick and his wife set
out in May, 1951, to pitch a camp at
Landerandera. They were forced to
cart water in 44-gallon drums 57
miles from Meta Bore. The bub-
bling drums, bumping heavily on the
open truck, left a scent through a
parched land. Birds and animals
followed them in. Finches and
budgerigars and other small birds
clustered in dozens round the drums
fell into wash-basins and cooking-
dishes and drowned. Crows, hawks
galahs and parrots fled into the tents
by daylight to bash themselves franti-
cally in open-beaked clutching weak-
ness. Dingoes, parched and bone-
thin,. tottered into the dining-tent
oblivious to all human presence
and were shot at muzzle-range.
Kangaroos and wallabies scratched
at the steel water-drums through-
out each night, leaving their telltale
tracks each morning.
Or when, in contrast to this scene
of destruction, he came upon the
“miracle stretch of country between
Carrondotta station in western Queens-
land and Dajarra rail-terminus,” where
countless thousands of budgerigars fed
in the grass, perched in the trees and
darkened the sky:—
Budgerigars across the plains!
Budgerigars in tens of thousands,
small birds flying past in packed for-
mation, tens of thousands, of bright
green and yellow, chattering
feathered rockets, each mob at some
common impulse wheeling and turn-
ing as one, twisting, darting, climb-
ing up and over in a grand loop to
catch again the rays of the sun,
spreading down flatly just a few feet
above the grass .... They were com-
ing in to roost in the leafy coolibahs
and gums of Split Creek.
It is these flashes of intimate nature-
writing that light the book: which other-
wise, distant enough though the places
are that Arthur Groom got to in his
small car, over fearsome tracks of sand
and gibbers—he went from Brisbane,
through Birdsville, through Newcastle
Waters to Wyndham and Darwin—and
vivid or informative as it is likely to
be at any moment when he is describ-
ing native stockmen at work or telling
you what causes the strange “walk-
about disease” in horses—is not in
general to be distinguished from a score
of similar outback books we have had
in recent years from roving journalists
. . . airbeef at Glenroy, the success-
stories of cattlemen in the semi-
desert country.
The mixture of poetry and patriotic
journalism makes, on the whole, not
a great but readable book. It was
Arthur Groom’s last book before he
died, and in a foreword a committee
set up to commemorate his work for
national parks, particularly the McPher-
son Range country, appeals for dona-
tions for the education of his children
and for a memorial to be set up in the
Lamington National Park.
THE JOURNEY
Darkness, the stars, and longing
And the road over the mountains
White under dust and starlight.
I stand with my shoes in my pocket,
The door unlatched behind me
And the white road plain before me
Out of this fertile valley,
Over the rim of the mountains
To that lost, fair, singing country.
And now you have come to stay me,
Small messenger, at midnight
Who have no words to utter
But only looks of wonder
From eyes born out of my eyes.
I shut the door on the mountains.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Reviewed Briefly
The Huge Season: Wright Morris
(Seeker and Warburg). In 1929 the
narrator of this novel, Peter Foley,
went to college and met a fellow-
student named Lawrence, who domi-
nates the book—athletic, half-psycho-
pathic and too wealthy. As a study
of such a person the novel is of interest,
but when it postulates a really intelli-
gent and by no means lethargic man
like Foley having his whole subsequent
life dominated by the long-deceased
Lawrence (the story is told in 1952), it
loses conviction.
* * * *
A Handful of Murder: Ferguson
Findley (Reinhardt). An American
folding-money counterfeiter who was
of use to the British Government in
World War II returns to his old home
in America, where various visitors,
including a beautiful alleged niece,
come seeking his plates and are
mysteriously murdered. With his true
niece he sets out to solve the murders
. . . but even for a thriller it has a
phony air about it.
* * * *
Ripening Seed: Colette (Seeker and
Warburg). Though apparently it made
a successful film, this is an extremely
disappointing novel from so fine a
writer as Colette: no more than boy-
meets-girl, except that boy also meets
an exotic middle-aged lady who bums
incense while she seduces him.


For Convenience. Time and Pleasure use a
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
HERMES 2,000.
control. Suitable for
Complete Portable, with tabulator and touch
home and office use. Price £4B. Deposit £lO.
Did you ever notice how much more
effective the typewritten letter or
report is than the one written by hand?
It’s neater, clearer, much easier to
read, and makes a far better impression.
A portable typewriter can be used
whenever and wherever the occasion
arises ... in the garden, at the
office, in bed, at the beach, or whilst
travelling by train, plane or car.
People who use typewriters most-doctors,
dentists, business men, journalists and
students-prefer a portable for its
lightness and convenience. In our Ground
Floor Pitt Street Stationery Department
we have an extensive range of portable
typewriters to suit every need, all
available on our famous easy terms,
(from £6-0-0 deposit), and every type-
writer we sell carries a twelve months 1
written guarantee. Trade in your old
typewriter as a part deposit.
truth in advertising
s :/S
■ l i
REMINGTON, sturdily constructed
portable with entirely new features.
Priced at £49/10/'; or with new
magic tab, £55/10/'. Deposit, £ll.
OLYMPIA features a spring-loaded
key top for easy cushioned action.
Priced at £49; or with tabulator,
priced £55. Deposit is only £ll.
IMPERIAL GOOD COMPANION
has two type styles. Priced at
£39/10/'; deposit, £B. Imperial No.
3 with tabulator, £46; deposit, £9.
BLUE BIRD DE LUXE has all
operating features of office type'
writers, including key set tabulator.
Priced at £55. Deposit is £ll.
■B
OLIVETTE LETTERA 22 features
a personal touch control device that
can be set to four different positions.
Priced at £39/15/'. Deposit, £B.
‘’.''..Or
OLIVER COURIER features an
88 character keyboard, and is very
light in weight. In compact carrying
case. Priced at .£35. Deposit, £7.
Bi#!;
W ,s i
HERMES BABY, the smallest,
lightest typewriter in the world
weighs only 8 lb. £35. Deposit, £7.
Hermes 2,000/ £4B. Deposit, £lO.
AVAILABLE IN
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
STATIONERY DEPT.
GROUND FLOOR
PITT STREET
’PHONE 80951
BOX 2712, G.P.O.
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3964
Wednesday, February 1, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
OFFICE: 252 George Street, Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington ,
WATERSIDE TREACHERY
THE half-hearted approach by watersiders them-
selves to the wharf-strike showed that it is not
the spontaneous outcome of a sense of wrong on
the part of oppressed workers but of a coolly
thought-out and deliberate plan framed by leaders
with objectives far beyond the ostensible one.
The insistence of Mr. Healy, the loutish leader
of the rebels, on the fact that the shipowners are a
“monopoly” links the watersiders’ scheme with the
thesis of the annual conference of the Communist
party in 1955. “Monopolies” was its theme; their
destruction its set task for 1955-56; the justification
for it that the programme of the seventeenth con-
ference of the party was entitled “Australia’s Path
to Socialism.” And the whole manoeuvre illustrates
how closely and confidentially the Kremlin and the
Communist parties of the world work together.
Every Communist party in the English-
speaking world has followed the same line during
1955. Each has unobtrusively set out the same
programme. And as soon as they were all formu-
lated at the beginning of last year Moscow came
out with a suggestion that the Cominform might
be liquidated and with it the world Communist
parties—the U.S.S.R. had formerly denied any
linkage, save the loosest—giving place to a world
Socialist international into which bodies not con-
nected with the Communist party might fit. Into
line with this announcement it is easy to dovetail
both the plan and the timing of the events of the
threshold period of 1955; the prototype strikes of
transport-workers in bulk or in small key-unions
with the power in the hands of their few members
to throw whole industries idle; the propaganda of
the Communists about “the crisis we face” (the
first heading in the thesis of the Communist Party
of Australia reporting its conference); the testing
of organisations, methods and effects in minor
disputes; the emergence of the submerged Left led
by such leaders as Herbert Vere Evatt and Clive
Evatt and E. J. Ward; the creation of the “united
front,” especially in the key unions of transport
which are to begin the fight and throw heavy
industry, and presently the whole country, into
chaos.
These are main features of current events, anc
they have been world-wide.
In Australia even the leader has been long-
chosen. For two years the Communist Party of
Australia has been circulating a special pamphlet
bearing Comrade Healy’s portrait and idealising
his career, calling for sympathy with his alleged
idealism and pity for the misery of his youth as a
victim of the capitalist warmongers for whom he
is said to have fought in World War I, with
results which have made him an avatar of the
principles of Marxism-Leninism. In plain fact he
is an agitator of the toughest and most cunning
type, cynically and ruthlessly indifferent to every-
thing save Moscow’s aims, which are clearly set out
in the Communist party’s 1955 thesis.
These aims are to unite “Labor” in the chaos
of industrial disturbance in order to defeat “the
monopolists of Britain, France and Australia,” who,
as “elsewhere, hate Socialism and the people’s’
movement and hope for a share in the profits
of war as junior partners of United States
imperialism.”
The “U.S. imperialists,” it seems, according
to the lying propaganda of the Kremlin rulers
relayed by the Healys and other Australian stooges
who are their agents, have “ringed the world with
air and naval bases and have troops stationed in
many countries.” They are “stockpiling atom-
bombs and impoverishing the whole capitalist
world” in the course of their preparations to destroy
“peaceful” Soviet Russia. They have, with the
British and Australian Governments, it seems,
“turned U.N.O. into an obedient instrument of
[their] aggressive designs, planned and embarked
on hostilities in Korea, seized Taiwan [Formosa]
and threatened the Chinese People’s Republic with
invasion.”
All this under an aggressive policy, directed
by the “mammoth U.S. trusts,” which has “destroyed
the war-time unity of Britain, the Soviet Union
and the U.S.A.” And the penetration of the
economies of British countries by the United States
brigands “striving to take over the huge profits
wrung from colonial peoples lead to struggle anc
conflict and the danger of war between capitalisi
States.” Australia (says the Communist party) is
to become “a war base, a Pacific bastion oi
American defence, our armed forces commanded
and directed by American generals and admirals
and our living-standards undermined by a rearma-
ment programme which has nothing in common
with legitimate defence.”
Australian “resources of manpower and
materials,” according to Mr. Healy’s Central Com-
mittee of the Australian Communist party, “are
to be used to produce weapons of war in the Pacific
against the Asian nations struggling for political
liberation from colonial slavery, as part of the
American war plan aiming at the domination of
the world.”
And this must be stopped, as “mass migra-
tion” and the growth of population, which makes
for our defensive strength and industrial power, also
must be stopped;, for, it seems, it is “a part of the
plans for the new world war, a threat to the estab-
lished living-standards of this country.” All this
saving of standards must be achieved, indeed, by
“ending private ownership of the means of pro-
duction for profit and replacing it with social
ownership,” through the “building of a united front
of members and supporters of the Communist party
and the Labor party in the industries and unions.”
The united front of Evatts and Healys is to
“restore Australia’s independence and assert this
independence by proclaiming Australia a demo-
cratic republic, thus putting an end to interference
in our domestic life by imported Govemors-
General” and “breaking the power of the
monopolies and big capitalists by Socialist
nationalisation of large-scale industries, banks, dis-
tributive monopolies, insurance-companies and the
land of large landowners and introducing a Govern-
ment monopoly of trade.”
The party of which Mr. Healy is the chosen
industrial leader makes it clear that it seeks a
“dictatorship of the proletariat” run by a ruthless
Communist junta and its firing-squads, which would
“restore Australia’s independence and pursue a
foreign policy of peace.” In other words, surrender
completely to Moscow, in whose pay the Petrov
commission proved the Australian Communist party
to be.
Mr. Healy suggests that because the arbitra-
tion court has turned down eight times the Water-
side Workers Federation’s demand for wage-rises,
called for by a union which is as close a monopoly
as any that exists, he and his fellow-conspirators
are justified in throwing the whole country into
economic chaos and weakening its security to the
point of helplessness.
If you fail eight times to persuade a pedestrian
to shell-out his lawful goods, highway robbery,
according to. Mr. Healy, would seem to be
justified.
The cool and calculated forethought which
they have shown as to time and method is only
less remarkable than the manner in which these fit
into the Communist world-programme of aggression
as it has been unfolding in Moscow and in Asia
over the past few months.
Inside the Civil Service
EXCEPT in those countries where criticism of the
Government means suppression of the critic, there
are few newspapers which have not at some time
or other complained about the public service. In
general, the criticism is that there are too many
public servants and that they give the public too
little service; alternatively that they have too much
power and take too big a share of the national
dividend.
As chairman of the N. S. Wales Public Service
Board (and on salary), Wallace C. Wurth can be
described as one of the top-ranking public servants
in Australia, so it is not surprising that he should
feel that attacks upon public servants generally, as
well as upon particular departments within the
ambit of his board’s jurisdiction, are, in effect,
attacks upon himself and his colleagues. This prob-
ably explains why his latest report on the activities
of the N. S. Wales Public Service Board, although
addressed to the State Governor, is largely a public-
relations document aiming to explain and justify
the existence and work of public servants.
After quoting the Prime Minister on the part
played by the public servant in developmental
works such as the Snowy Mountains Scheme, Mr.
Wurth says
it is curious how many people, including some
who should know better, regard any person in
the public service as a non-producer or a
bureaucrat, whereas any person outside the public
service if doing similar work, or work of no
importance whatever to the community, is
regarded as a producer. All public servants,
whether employed in the Agriculture Department,
or in the Health Department or the Teaching
Service,/ or in the courts, or on social-welfare
activities, are classified as non-producers.
Mr. Wurth rightly describes this as a loose method
of speaking—the arbitrary division of the com-
munity into producers and non-producers is a little
out of date—but he apparently accepts the same
distinction himself in regard to persons outside th
civil service.
After dismissing as excusable criticism by
certain vociferous people who are not expected to
know otherwise,” the chairman deplores statements
by public men who could be expected to be com
petent to judge.” As an example of the seconc
kmd of critic he quotes an unnamed person who
criticised the Government because the Depart
ments of Health, Education, Forestry and Agricul
ture were not under balance-sheet control and i
was accordingly not possible to ascertain their
losses. He then makes out a very good case to
show the value of the Department of Agriculture
to the community, but as, despite the statemen
of the “public man,” this is not really in doubt
the whole passage seems very like putting up an
Aunt Sally for the purpose of knocking it down.
Of the public service generally the report points
out that
82 per cent, of public servants employed under
the provisions of the Public Service Act are
engaged in the fields of education and public-
health work (including institutions for the aged,
sick and mentally afflicted); in advice and super-
vision in the primary industries (agriculture,
forestry, mining, conservation); and in the adminis-
tration of justice and enforcement of the law;
and that an increasing population means that more
schools, more hospitals, more teachers, more nurses
are required each year. This is indisputable, bul
people who criticise the size of the public service
are not thinking in terms of teachers, nurses,
scientists or technical advisers, but of those engaged
in purely administrative duties, of whom there are
many even in the departments mentioned. The
public servants who approach most nearly to the
popular conception of bureaucrats are in those
departments where the work is least practical and
where contact with the general public is largely a
matter of filling-in forms. In these circumstances
inquirers often get the impression that the man
behind the counter regards them as nuisances; in
reality they are the reason for his being there.
In defending the Child Welfare Department
and the Mental Hospitals Department against
recent newspaper criticism, Mr. Wurth is on strong
ground. Both departments encounter much human
misery, and their work calls for sympathy and
understanding; it is unjust to imply that they are
staffed by callous automatons who do everything
by the book.
Referring to the Stoller report on mental
hospitals, Mr. Wurth admits the deficiencies men-
tioned, but claims that these had already been
pointed out year after year by the head of the
Mental Hospitals Department and by his own
board. The root causes of the trouble were over-
crowding and shortage of staff. The first of these
was being overcome by a building programme
“notwithstanding such things as public antipathy
to the problem generally, and even to the erection
of mental hosptials in particular localities.” As to
the staff problem:—
Unless people have a calling or a particular
aptitude for this type of work, in times of full
employment sufficient people are not offering.
Sensational articles on conditions in mental
hospitals seldom acknowledge this obvious truth.
Railway- and tramwaymen, who outnumber all
other Government employees in New South Wales,
do not come under the jurisdiction of the Public
Service Board. Of the 41,589 persons who were
under its control at June 30, 1955, slightly more
than 50 per cent, were concerned with education,
11 per cent, with health, 10 per cent, with primary
industry and 7 per cent, with justice. During the
year there were increases in every department with
the exception of the Prices Branch, in which suspen-
sion of price-control enabled a reduction of staff
from 135 officers to eight. Most of these officers
were absorbed by other departments.
There has been much talk recently about
unsatisfactory conditions in the teaching profession
and claims that unduly high numbers of men are
leaving the service. Figures quoted in the report
do not support these claims. A two-year trainee
commences duty as a teacher at 19 on a salary of
£l6 12s. 7d. a week, rising progressively to £25 17s.
in 11 years; a four-year trainee begins duty at 21
on £l9 3s. 7d. a week, rising to £29 6s. 6d. in 13
years. At the end of June the number of student-
teachers in training stood at the record figure of
3158 and the number of trainees recruited from
the previous year’s Leaving examination exceeded
one in five of all successful candidates. As to the
alleged drift from the service:—
The dearest index always of the attractive-
ness or otherwise of the teaching service is to be
found in the turnover of male teachers. The
figure quoted, of 132 male resignations for the
year, out of a total staff of 8318 male teachers,
is quite remarkable, and must compare more
than favorably with any other major service in
the Commonwealth.
The report mentions the long delay in hearing
appeals before the Crown Employees Appeals
Board against promotions and transfers—in many
cases 18 months. This the board and the officers
concerned find very frustrating. Their feelings can
well be understood. They must be very similar to
those experienced by members of the general public
when given the. red-tape run-around by one of the
less human Government departments.


SMASH!


PLAIN ENGLISH
U.S. and World Diplomacy
The visit of Sir Anthony Eden and Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd to Washington and Ottawa
is proceeding according to patterh as to
accessory features. The Dulles article in
“Life,” referring to the three times on
which the free world was rescued through
show of strength on the “brink of war,”
was a great help to those who were eager
to divide the United States from its
allies.
The magazine itself has assumed res-
ponsibility for the emphasis in the article,
but this helps little. In view of the
nature of modern editing its admissions
are probably wholly true, but this
scarcely excuses the action of Mr. Dulles
in handing an editor dynamite to play
with. Editors of the present generation in
America are notoriously not to be trusted
with explosives, and they care little
what national damage their experiments
of fireworks-displays do to the national
cause or security, so long as they attract
attention and sell papers. The same is
true of a very large section of the Aus-
tralian press which seems to have become
lost to a sense of moral or national
responsibility.-
On the eve of the British visit Presi-
dent Eisenhower felt compelled to
defend Mr. Dulles as the “best Secretary
of State ’ he has known, a reference
which does not mean very much in view
of the sad blunders of most of his pre-
decessors, who have brought little save
inexperience to the task of dealing with
the problems of Asia, which they have
uniformly insisted on making their own
with increasingly frightening results.
Their bald approach to the delicate
problem of Communism has been paral-
leled usually by an aggressive one towards
British colonial policy.
Over a decade they have sought to
achieve what the Communists had
formerly failed to achieve —the expulsion
of British and other European nations
from their overseas colonies, and the
establishment of self-government by the
natives, some of them utterly incapable
of ruling themselves, even if aided by
United States guidance and finance and
trade.
In India, Burma and other places they
have succeeded in ousting the British, and
it was very largely through their
influence that the Dutch were thrown
from Indonesia. But they have also, in
furthering this policy of so-called “self-
determination,” opened the gates to the
Communists and turned what were vital
deience-centres against Russian aggres-
sion into platforms for Moscow propa-
ganda. r
The maintenance of the United States
organisation in Formosa to back the
ragged and discredited Chiang Kai-shek
Army, which is all that remains of
Nationalist China and which is gradually
falling under the control of Chiang’s
son, who was educated in Moscow and is
an unknown quantity politically, is not a
bright spot in United States diplomacy.
In fact, the whole record is such as to
lead older and more experienced diplo-
mafists to whisper: “Save me from my
friends, whenever they see an American
Secretary of State on the horizon.
A close unity of the English-speaking
peoples—U.S. and British Common-
wealth is vital to the safety of civilisa-
tion m the face of the Communist
menace. A joint policy is necessary, one
simply and economically expressed which
excludes busy bodying from its expedi-
ents, which speaks from joint strength
and refuses to fall for traps like the
Soviet red-herring approaches and peace-
campaigns which invariably develop
whenever the British Commonwealth and
American representatives confer So
far, in the modern world, the Canadians
have come nearest to the ideal with their
habit of minding their own business,
developing their resources, attracting as
little attention as possible to their de-
fence programmes, but slapping-down
hard on interfering fingers whenever
they advance towards Canada,
It seems a great pity that there is
not as close a communal relationship be-
tween Australia and Canada as there is
between the United Kingdom and
Canada. Such negotiations as are now
about to take place in Washington would
be of greater significance if a composite
British Commonwealth view were repre-
sented, instead of merely that of the
United Kingdom. Eden is scarcely the
man to represent Dominion opinion in
such discussions; any more than Mr
Dulles seems to be the ideal man to
voice the world policy of the West and
to interpret its bygone events.
Strike Moves
Before the weekend there was unjustified
optimism that the wharf-strike would be
of short duration.
Already more than 150 ships are tied-
up in Australian ports. Overseas ship-
owners have told the wool-industry that
they see no hope under present circum-
stances of moving the wool-clip during
the next two months. Tasmania’s fruit-
exports may rot for all the wharflaborers
care. Coal is piling up, and at the
weekend 35,000 tons of steel was
awaiting inter-State shipment.
The Federal Cabinet has not dealt
definitively with the dispute largely
because it has not reached a stage at
which Cabinet can act beyond mediating
with the A.C.T.U., whose Mr. Monk is
equally culpable with the other parties
guilty of bringing about the senseless
stoppage, which serves no one but the
Communist party.
The point is approaching, however,
when the Governments, Commonwealth
and State, will have to declare their
attitudes, more particularly since the
inevitable dismissals of seamen (whose
Communist officials are eagerly looking
forward to the first pretext that will
allow their union to strike a blow for
Moscow in conjunction with Mr. Healy),
coalminers and transport-workers, as
well as those engaged in wool whose
work is dependent on the movement of
shipping, threaten to widen the ambit
of the dispute.
On Friday Mr. Justice Ashburner
granted an application by the shipowners
to insert in the award of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation a clause prohibiting
bans, limitations or restrictions of work
for a period of 12 months. A separate
breach of the law will be committed with
each day’s continuance of the strike,
involving the participants in penalties
of up to £5OO a day. The judgment,
from which the Federation was granted
leave to appeal, was given after the judge
had offered an immediate and expeditious
hearing on pay and conditions and after
the usual cheeky insult was aimed by the
Communists’ advocate at the Bench.
The way is now open for the employers
to apply for a rule calling on the union
to show cause why it should not be
subjected to penalties, a move which
will probably lead to an immediate appeal
to the High Court if it is successful, the
haters of British justice being always
ready to take advantage of its intricacies
to the limit for their own purposes.
The Coal Tribunal in Sydney adjourned
until next Friday the application of coal-
owners to put off men not gainfully
employed.
The crucial events this week centred
round the meetings of the ACTU
Executive on January 31.
If the executive doesn’t reach a
decision it seems almost certain that
the Commonwealth will need to take
some measures to see that the innocent
majority of workers do not suffer in the
cause of the wanton Communist-led
minority.
And its action will need to be swift
salutary and well organised.
The Great Wall of Cahill
As one who has no opinion whatever on
the possible usefulness of the new rail-
way loop at Sydney’s Circular Quay but
is interested only in its aesthetic qualities,
a Bulletin man who strolled down from
George-street to study the station found
himself confronted with a singular
dilemma: do you take the stairs to Plat-
form No. 1 or do you take the escalator?
If you take the escalator, which is very
shmy and clean, and slides up and down
like anything, you obviously see modern
functional architecture at its peak. But
“ you take the stairs, which nobody ever
will do, you see the only piece of decora-
tion which the N. S. Wales Government
m. this highly functional barn, has per-
mitted itself—half-a-dozen curly bronze
fish, of no identifiable variety, roosting
m embi asures in the walls and symbolis-
ing, no doubt, the fish you might have
caught at the Quay if they hadn’t all been
frightened away by the awful spectacle
of trains flying through the air.
The building is not totally devoid of
other attractions. There is a handsome
bronze plaque in which, for the only
time on record, Premier Cahill, his
Transport Minister Mr. Wetherell and
his Railways Commissioner Mr. Winsor
are joined in eternal harmony. There
Srt, PatCh / S of , P ast el-pink paint and
wlieT ° f pa f el^ lue which, combined
with large pink tiles, give the effect of-
a rather nice, but windy, lavatory
But it must be said that these'minor
charms can never really atone for the
hideousness of the total station and its
viaduct, rearing across the Quay in a
monstrous great wall which has rightly
been arousing town-planners, architects
and other citizens to frenzy in the corres-
pondence columns of Sydney “Herald.”
When you think of what the Quay could
conceivably look like, a Champs Elysees
of Sydney with Moreton Bay figs spread-
ing their shade over wide green lawns
where you could sit at ease in deck-
chairs, watch the ferries and dream of
the wool-clippers of old furling their
white sails, and when you see what Mr.
Cahill has made of it, you could weep
streams of train-tickets from both eyes.
Still, merely from the viewpoint of
usefulness, there is, after all, something
to be said for it. If you want a ride back
to The Bulletin office you have only to
stand in a queue for 20 minutes, buy a
ticket for fivepence, fight through to the
solitary girl on the turnstiles, whizz up to
your platform, and then you hurtle into
town like a rocket. You can walk it in
four minutes or dq it for fourpence in a
tram, of course: but then you would
miss the bronze fish or, alternatively, the
escalator.
-o~
State Polls
While new Federal M.P.s are still pick-
ing their seats for the first session of the
new Parliament, old members of four
State Parliaments are getting ready for
the campaigns which will decide whether
they’ll still be back at the old address
after the polls. Westralia and South
Australia will be first off the mark.
“Labor” in W.A. emerged from the 1953
election with a majority of one after
appointing a Speaker, but the loss of
the Bunbury seat at a by-election last
October left the parties deadlocked at
25-all. The Opposition made a half-
hearted attempt to force a January elec-
tion, but Premier Hawke declined the
invitation. Polling-day is now fixed for
March 3. On Federal figures and the
Bunbury result a change of Government
should follow. v
Last week South Australian Premier
Playford also announced March 3 as
election-day. It won’t cause undue excite-
ment in S.A., where elections come and
go but Playford and his Government go
on and on. Present state of parties in
the S.A. Assembly is L.C.P., 20;
“Labor,” 14; Independent, 4, with one
seat vacant.
Queensland and New South Wales are
the other two States with elections brew-
They customarily, but not invari-
ably, choose. the same day for putting
their fortunes to the test. This time
Cahill almost beat the gun by picking
December 3 without reference to his
colleague in Brisbane, but Federal hap-
penings put an end to that. Since then
April 21 has been looked upon as the
most likely date for Cahill—mainly be-
cause it is the latest date on which the
poll can be held. Last week, however,
there were suggestions that an earlier
date might be chosen. These were
inspired by reports that State loan-fund
allocations would be cut by 12| per cent,
at the Loan Council meeting this week.
Cahill has made no secret of the fact
that he is on the lookout for an issue
which may enable the “Labor” squabble
to be pushed into the background during
the election campaign. He won the 1953
election on the alleged wickedness of
the Federal Government towards New
South Wales, and he may feel that a
cut in loan funds will enable him to
repeat the performance. An election
fought on finance would at least save
him the trouble of preparing new
speeches. March 24 is the fancied date.
Mr. Gair is still marking-time. He
visited Cahill in Sydney, allegedly to fix
a joint polling-day, but apparently
couldn’t get Cahill to name the day
Gairs position is that he has to wait
until after the party conference at Mackay
on February 27. His desire to hold his
election the same day as Cahill’s doesn’t
spring altogether from mateship;
Labor reverses south of the Queens-
land border might have repercussions
north of it if the N. S. Wales election
came first.
Organic Unity—When?
In the Only an inquirer
accustomed to walking on eggshells
would raise in Canberra today the
decades-old question of whether the
Liberal and Country parties are likely
to reach organic unity in the Federal
sphere in the foreseeable future.
The question is, wrapped in several
imponderables, including the personali-
ties and prestige of Country-party Mini-
sters, past, present, and prospective. It
involves, also, the position of officials in
both organisations, and the ever-present
possibility that in the entrenched
£°?w y ‘ Par i y , areas of Queensland,
and Victoria, the linking of
Country and Liberal interests might pro-
voke a new Country-party breakaway-
movement. This latter prospect is not
so strong as it was, and it may never
nave been as strong as the Country
party professed to believe. In any case
recent developments in Canberra, to-
gether with the ill-concealed desire of the
Liberals in N.S.W. to challenge the
Country party in some Federal and
Mate seats, as well as in the Senate
team, may lead to renewed feelers in the
near future.
The “inner” Cabinet has now only two
Country-party members, Sir “Artie” and
John McEWen, out of twelve. There is
strong reason to believe that Fadden
would welcome a less strenuous post, and
his name has even been mentioned as a
replacement for Sir “Tommy”
White m London. On the other hand,
McEwen, apparently fully recovered
from his recent illness, is making a strong
claim for public attention in his new
and crucial Trade portfolio. In the event
of Mr. Menzies relinquishing the Prime
Ministership to accept a British Com-
monwealth post, McEwen would have the
strongest claims to consideration as his
successor—if he belonged to the Liberal
Party, or if the two parties had merged by
that time. In fact he might find stronger
support than is now obvious for Harold
Holt, who is perhaps the foremost Lib-
eral contender, especially if Sir Eric
Harrison doesn’t line-up at the barrier,
and if Sir Philip Mcßride shows a dis-
position to succeed Sir Percy Spender
in Washington.
Now that Sir Earle Page (what a lot
of knights there are in politics these
days!) is in semi-retirement, and “Larry”
Anthony is also off the front of the stage
(ostensibly, at least, from choice), the
Country party is showing signs of slip-
ping. Admittedly it retained five port-
folios, but in an expanded Ministry,
and its back-bench numbers and calibre
lag far behind the Liberals. It doesn’t
exist as a separate party in Tasmania or
South Australia, and has little say in
Western Australia except, maybe,
through Senator Agnes Robertson. Its
Victorian influence, except in one or two
areas, has waned in recent years, and it
would be illuminating to have an objec-
tive assessment of its real strength in
N.S.W. and Queensland, as well as a
clearly-stated outline of the differences,
if any, between its policy and that of its
Liberal partner.
Many diehards will challenge all this,
of course, and for the time being the
Liberals seem prepared to let things
ride, reasoning that time is the great
leveller, and that even Mr. Menzies has
been outstandingly patient on the subject
since he told the Canberra conference
which formed the Liberal party in 1944
that he looked forward to full organic
unity with the Country party. It could
be that the Country-party price of unity
would involve some adjustments of
Liberal policy, including the outlook, if
any, on new States. At least the
prospects seem worth canvassing.
Overstretched
From London: Speaking only a week
before the reopening of Parliament, the
Prime Minister could hardly be expected
to come out with any dramatic revela-
tions of a newly-found panacea against
the nation’s economic ills —even in a city
like Bradford, which takes pride in being
hardheaded and blunt of speech. More-
over, had not the engagement to address
the Yorkshire Conservative Association
been a long-standing one, it is doubtful
whether Sir Anthony Eden would have
gone out of his way to clear the air of
murmurs against himself and his Gov-
ernment’s failure to combat inflation.
On the spot, as it were, by reason of
an isolated public appearance, he dis-
missed the charges and suspicions
against him in a few brief, forthright
sentences and went on to give what
amounted to a balanced but slightly rose-
tinted survey of the home-front.
It is one of the “plagues of prosperity”
that we have “overstretched ourselves.”
And how much more we could expand
if it weren’t for that constant Jeremiah —
the balance-of-payments problem! A
diplomatic, “regret” that the plea of the
miners’ leaders for imported foreign labor
to dig more coal had been ignored. A
word of sympathy and a promise for
those dependent on fixed incomes. A
reference to restrictive practices and the
Maginot Line mentality in industry. And
so on
Meanwhile, the campaign against
inflation must take its course, relying
upon present weapons and, of
o Continued on next page)


course, “not hesitating to use others.
That is to say, by Budgetary measures
next April and after.
What form will the remedies take?
Clearly, the Government considers that
our major troubles are due to the exten-
sive programme of industrial investment
and intends to postpone capital projects.
The suggested cut in civil-service staff
by 10,000-15,000 will please the deeper
shades of blue, although it can’t be much
more than a gesture. An appeal to firms
to keep prices stable in the general
interest is yet another exhortation. The
Monopolies Bill is in preparation.
Increased pay in the armed forces sutti-
cient to attract recruits and, ultimately,
to do away with national service is a bole.
idea which, if it can be made to work,
will be of great economic benefit, lhe
most interesting point made is the Gov-
erment’s intention to boost savings.
What form this will take is somewhat
problematical, in view of the snags, but
it is long overdue.
One thing is clear: the Government
intends to avoid, with all the painstaking
diplomacy at the command of its leader,
any attitude that would alienate the
workers’ representatives. It will work for
industrial peace, taking, perhaps, the
realistic view that it is better to meet
trouble half-way (as with the 7 per cent,
offer to the railwaymen and their immedi-
ate acceptance) than for the nation to be
plunged into disastrous strikes, as
happened last year in the docks and on
the railways.
In his speech, Eden used these words.
“You cannot fight inflation without pain.
It is such an insidious disease.” But the
whole trouble is that, at present, the
disease pains more than the remedy. In
the meantime it is ffx be hoped that Dr.
Squeeze’s gradual treatment will be seen
to greater effect, even to avoiding a
drastic surgical operation in the spring.
POLITICAL POINTS
Whew! Bankstown again!
a •
That 8.8. C. Australia Day broadcast
was apparently as bad as it could be, but
the Bay Bay Cay shouldn’t be blamed.
Their script-writers had obviously been
listening to some of the “funny” shows
on our commercial networks (which give
the impression that all Australians aie
illiterate halfwits) or perhaps to the
A.B.C.’s most popular serial,
• •
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” headline:
“Ward for Hepatitis.” Surely he’s not
deserting East Sydney!
• •
Bulganin’s latest attempt at ‘ peace
propaganda” to disrupt the Eisenhower-
Eden meeting met with short shrift from
Washington. He was told curtly that
what he proposed in the way of a peace
pact had been embodied in the United
Nations Charter a decade ago. President
Eisenhower did not add that Russia has
consistently ignored the terms ol that
pact from the moment it was signed.
• •
One paragraph in Eisenhower’s reply
to Bulganin was very much to the point:,
1 wonder whether again going through a
treaty-making procedure, and this time on
a bilateral basis only, might indeed work
against the cause of peace by creating the
illusion that a stroke of the pen had
achieved a result which, in fact, can be
obtained only by a change of spirit.
It is the creation of such an illusion
that is the sole purpose of Bulganin’s
proposal.
• ®
Before the Federal election Calwell
proclaimed that “Labor’s’ policy
appealed “to all except the greedy few
who are quite happy because they are
doing so well today.” The greedy few
turned out to be sufficiently numerous
to return the Government with a record
majority. On primary votes “Labor’s ’
policy appealed to fewer people than at
any election in 30 years.
The Doc.’s earliest election comment
was no less wide of the mark. When
Menzies announced the election-date Bert
commented, “Let him that thinketh he
standeth take heed lest he fall.”
• •
Australia got a boost in Italy with
a national broadcast of a special Aus-
tralia Day programme of song and
symphony. John Antill’s music for his
“Corroboree” ballet was to have been
played, but Rome officials thought it
might be too strange and frightening for
Italian listeners, so his “Outback Over-
ture” was substituted. They should have
put on “Australian Wharves” —some-
thing restful.
• •
Comrade E. F. Hill, Victorian secretary
to the Communist party and its counsel
before the Petrov Commission, has
applied for a passport to visit Moscow
on grounds of “health and tourism.
His health, like that of Comrade
Sharkey two years ago, has given way on
the eve of a Russian Communist-party
conference, at which, no doubt, also like
Comrade Sharkey, he will be well enough
to paint Australia as a land of starving
skeletons. Comrade Sharkey had his
travelling expenses largely paid by the
Soviet Government, and after his return,
as the Petrov commissioners found, a
badly needed 25,000 dollars arrived for
the Australian Communist party by
courier from Moscow.
• •
While Hill is in his spiritual fatherland
for “health and tourist reasons” he
should inquire about the health of the
two couriers who didn’t take Mrs.
Petrov back to Moscow.
• • <
Bukowski, Queensland president of
the A.W.U., is prophesying that an
“outside body” will form a breakaway
“Labor” party which will boycott the
Mackay Convention on February 27.
If this happens, he says, the Queensland
“Labor” Movement will deal with it “like
the rest of Australia dealt with the
limited boycott of the biennial meeting
of the Federal A.L.P. in Hobart last
year. Gair, who was one of the Hobart
boycotters, has made no comment.
• »
Cahill, with an election looming-up, is
hinting of seeking a return of taxing-
powers. Said he last week:
We are handed out an amount of money
that has already been determined by the
Federal Government, the parties of which
have maligned Labor to get where they are
today.. We are going to ask far a change.
If they are not prepared to give us a lair
go I think I ought to support the Premier
of Victoria and find out whether we cant
get control of our own position.
Only a few months ago Premier Bolte
asked Cahill to join him in seeking a
return of taxing-powers. Cahill declined.
Despite his change of words he’ll still
decline. With taxing-powers back he’d
no longer be able to use Canberra as a
whipping-boy for his own crowd’s mis-
deeds. Which means that he’d have no
policy. *
Evatt wants Menzies to appeal to the
shipowners as well as the wharfies. But
hang it all, who’s running the strike?
Haddy or Healy?
• •
Queensland “Labor” caucus has again
supported Premier Gair against the
central executive on the subject of annual
leave. Q.C.E. some time ago instructed
the Govefnment to legislate for three
weeks’ annual leave for all employees
under State awards. Cabinet maintained
THIMBLE AND PEA
(Now you see it —now you don’t.)
that the time was not ripe for the pro-
posal; it was told to introduce it
immediately, but again refused and was
supported by caucus 28-20. Last weeks
vote was 30-19. Next move is up to the
Q.C.E.
• •
, in the eight years ended on December
31 1,007,920 people arrived in Australia
for permanent settlement and 231,8//
left for other countries —net gain for the
period, 776,043. Last year’s gam was
93,170.
• •
“Gath”: One of the curiosities of the
present unhappy Middle East situation is
the arrangement for a telephone-service
between the military commandant of the
Israel portion of Jerusalem and the
commander of the Arab Legion in
Old City of Jerusalem. The link was
established to enable them to check any
outbreak of hostilities between trigger
happy troops on either side of the barbed
wire, and to clear up at once any mis-
understandings which could otherwise
cause military action. Recently the
phone rang in the Israeli section, and the
Arab legion commander gave his
opposite-number a brief message. He
said, “The shooting you hear is not
aimed at Israel; it is a local affair. It
was certainly not aimed at Israel, but it
was hardly a local affair. It was part of
the unhappy disturbances in Jordan
against that nation joining the Baghdad
pact. In the course of nationwide riots,
which delighted Egypt and Russia
equally, and which caused some recrimi-
nations between Britain and America, at
least 60 were killed, and more than 100
wounded, and about 600 arrested.
“In the ACT”: If the N.S.W. railways
ever want to get out of the red they 11
need to do better than the goods service
they provide to the National Capital.
The early-morning tram from Sydney is
getting worse than ever. Usually The
Bulletin is under a pile of assorted
goods which takes hours to shift, to the
frustration of newsagents and readers
alike. One day recently even the mail-
bags were underneath four motorcycles
and sundry other heavy packages. Ihe
railways have been told about this miser-
able service on many occasions. Its
time they did something: about it. No
wonder, the airways are increasingly
popular in Canberra.
• •
New York had a wharf-strike last
September—a “spontaneous” one accord-
ing to the leaders of the International
Longshoremen’s Association. But
according to U.S. “Time ” the members
knew better.
At one strike-meeting a member got up
and asked, “What are the principles for
which we are going out?” Without a ward,
an I.L.A. goon stalked over and slugged
him in the face. As he toppled
I.L.A. Chief Organiser Teddy Gleason
boomed, “Now I’ll answer the question.
The principles are these: you go home,
and you don’t work. We don t want you
guys asking questions.”
In Australian “spontaneous” strikes the
strong-arm methods aren’t so obvious,
but the function of the rank-and-file is
much the same —to go home and not ask
questions.
o •
Ballot for election of officers for the
Labor Council of N. S. Wales resulted
in another rebuff for the Evatt faction ;
right-wing candidates won every position.
• •
Supporting the A.W.U. plan for retire-
ment pensions financed by employers
and administered by the unions, Tom
Dougherty said there might be a big
stoppage while unions negotiated with
employers. He then spoke of having
seen “retired workers in the United States
living in comfort with their own homes
and cars.” Quite so, but they didn’t get
them by go-slow or by wholesale
stoppages. Gains made by American
workers have been made possible by
increased production encouraged and
advocated by union-leaders.
• •
New Zealand’s Prime Minister Holland
is to visit Australia this month for talks
with Menzies. Subjects: defence and
trade.
• •
The Loan Council meets in Canberra
today —a special meeting called at the
instance of Premier Bo'te of Victoria.
Cahill, as usual, is mouthing threats as
to what he’ll do if N. S. Wales doesn’t
get its fair share of loan funds. Bolte
intends to spring a f surprise on the coun-
cil ; he has a “revolutionary” plan which
he claims will obviate the necessity for
cuts.
• ©
“Wusslean”: According to the chief
industrial officer of the Victorian Em-
ployers’ Federation, the Victorian system
of wage-fixing had its beginnings on a
mullock-heap—where a miners’ meeting,
at Ballarat in 1895, agreed to a wage
fixed by Sir Alex. Peacock. It might be
ungracious to suggest that the Wages
Board system, which has rendered good
service to Victoria, over many years, is
heading for the scrapheap—but it cer-
tainly looks like it. Two sets of wages
and working-conditions are now pre-
scribed for many Victorian workers,
those covered by Wages Boards receiving
at the moment 11s. a week more than
their counterparts under Federal awards
(because of the State’s continuance of
c.-0.-l. adjustments), and there are other
discrepancies, which all add up to head-
aches and confusion for both employers
and employees. Sooner or later the dual
system must be ended, and anything but
Federal industrial regulation is un-
thinkable.
• •
The British Commonwealth is about
to acquire its first all-black Dominion in
West Africa, which the Queen is now
visiting. Meanwhile the Russians have
anticipated the Royal tour and are
endeavoring to build up a new West
African Mau-Mau type of murder-
organisation to be ready for her tour.
The brotherhood of man is a weird and
horrible creed as preached in Moscow.
e •
Two tentative bites were taken by
Federal Cabinet at two not-greatly-
appetising cherries. The future of the
Commonwealth Shipping Line was men-
tioned, but a decision was deferred until
the Shipping Minister, Senator Paltridge,
had paid his promised visit to Tasmania
(a State still awaiting his decision on
tenders for a daylight vehicular-ferry
service across Bass Strait). Another
matter was the allocation of duties as
between the portfolios of Trade and
Primary Production, on which some com-
mentators had suggested Constitutional
difficulties might arise. This question was
engaging the attention of the Prime
Minister himself.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Sometimes a Govern-
ment takes notice of a report. At the
beginning of last year an Anglo-
Australian rice-mission visited Ceylon
and had a look at rice-grow-
ing methods there. , Its report has
been in the hands of the Government
in Colombo for some time, and it has
just been announced that the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture is taking “active
steps” to implement its recommendation
for establishment of a separate rice-
improvement unit. The Government pro-
poses to intensify considerably rice-
research work, “with the assistance of
large rice - producing countries lik©
Japan.”


Society
TT never struck me, until rereading
A David Copperfield lately, how useful
Australia was to Victorian England as a
dumping-ground not only for convicts
but for slightly disreputable characters in
the novel: it solved both a social and an
artistic problem. Thus, to take them
neatly out of the novel and to put them
in a fitting place to expiate their faults
and rehabilitate themselves, Dickens gave
us both Little Emily and Mr. Micawber,
complete with the awful Mr. Peggotty
and the delightful Mrs. Micawber and
twins. I trust that Mr. Micawber, at any
rate, got here. —“S.”
♦j* '
“Sister Ellell”: You have to be up early
in the morning to be in the same race as
the young ladies of today. One appeared
before I had time to change into uniform,
and presented a badly-cut Anger in a
Hey, Dad, will you stop grinding your teeth when you read
the race results ?”
dirty hanky; seemingly she had cut it
on the breadknife two hours before.
I gave her the benefit of a brief state-
ment on first-aid in the home, but she
still averred that there was nothing there
to use. So I said to her, “And what will
“ They'll be glad to know we called."
you do if this happens on a Sunday, with
no Sister to run to?” “Oh,” smirked
she, “that won’t happen. Mum always
cuts the bread on Sundays! ”
♦J>
“Jock”: BiU (“Yank”) Cowan, captain
of Caves Beach surf-club at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), swam out 300yds. almost to
the reef to investigate an off-white
object like a woman’s bathing-cap. It
turned out to be a cabbage—well,
there’s plenty of boiled-beef on the
beaches this summer to go with it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: Euphemisms we must
use; but, please, no weak ones —above
all, no “bar-steward” or even “dog-
faced bar-steward” (B. 4/1/’56).
“Blankard” is the word. There is a ring
of affectionate admiration, a tone of
friendly respect about the greeting:
“Hello, you old blankard.” That’s so
even if he is one. “You old bar-steward”
lacks implications. There are no old
bar-stewards—they’re in management by
then —the phrase paints no picture.
Blankard’s the only wear. Let Thersites
say: “I am a blankard, too; I love
blankards; I am a blankard begot,
blankard instructed, blankard in mind,
blankard in valor, in everything illegiti-
mate.” Put bar-stewards in there and
they’re worse than misplaced—they’re
maligned. Farewell, bar-steward! Hail,
blankard!
❖ ♦♦+ *x*
“Sophonisba”: Sydney “Telegraph”
took delight in a magistrate who had an
Egg Board inspector’s expenses-account
cut from £23 to £ll. “A pity that magis-
trate cannot have a shot at Egg Board
costs generally. His dealing with the
inspector indicates he could be the man
to get the egg back on the average man’s
breakfast-table.” The “D.T.” didn’t
mention the magistrate’s name —Mr.
Chick.
“Mullum”: Poker - machines are
supposed to be unpopular with waiting
wives, but on Ladies Night at the club
the one-armed-bandit really earns his
keep. Don’t know why the machine has
such a fascination for women, but,
whether playing or just watching, they
cluster round the metal monsters all
night. “Give the wife a handful of
deeners, and meet me at the bar” is the
invitation to many a pleasant evening.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“D.J.G.”: Was surprised to learn that
the N.Z. Society of Accountants pub-
lished a balance-sheet showing a bank-
balance of one-penny (B. 18/1/’56):
modern accounting practice is to exclude
shillings and pence from published
financial statements, all items being
rounded-off to the nearest quid. This
makes accounts easier to read, and
auditors are apparently prepared to
vouch for the approximated figures
representing the “true and correct posi-
tion.” By way of contrast, the published
statement of the public income of Great
Britain for the year ending January 5,
1816, shows the net return from
permanent and annual taxes as
£45,188,368 4s. 4±d.
❖ *l* *
“Mac Hoots”: I am charmed to learn
that Kenneth Slessor’s “Captain Dobbin,”
who kept a record of all ships entering
Sydney Harbor “for some mysterious
and awful purpose, never divulged,” has
a counterpart in real life. This is Mr.
James C. Myles, of Dover Heights, who
wrote to “S. M. Herald”: “Since 1948
I have made regular observations with a
powerful telescope of the ships passing
in and out .... I find that I have seen
no less than 1803 ships, and not one has
been entered in my logbook twice.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dorian”: Film-market flooded with
American cops - ’n’ - robbers, Sydney
stores featuring American-style clothes,
bookstalls choked with American crime-
novels and comic-books, one’s radio
blaring a frontier pop-tune while coon-
clad kids tear round the house —and now
a Yank evangelist to soul-and-heal us.
And all because of the vacuum created
by Ned’s untimely demise.
♦> *l* +>
“Baggyduds”: Genial, non-drinkin’,
non-smokin’, non-cussin’ Steve Logan,
c.o. of the rambling Victoria Hotel,
South Brisbane, keeps a watchful eye
upon his clientele. One Saturday night a
drunk wandered into the Melbourne-street
entrance, and was returned to the foot-
path. Anticipating the drunk’s peregrina-
tions, Steve dashed down the labyrinth
of corridors and confronted the reject on
the doorstep of the Stanley-street en-
trance, about 150yds. around the corner.
The drunk, alerted with surprise, said,
“Strike me roan, mate, how many flamin’
pubs do ydu own ?”
*l* +:♦ ♦>
“Mullum”: Heard my young son
singing a too-familiar tune. The words
didn’t seem right. When he began the
second run-through I listenec
carefully:
Born on a tablecloth in Joe’s caf6,
Dirtiest spot in the U.S.A.,
Poisoned his ma with D.D.T.
And shot his pa with a .303.”
And Walt Disney thought he had founc
a character who could bring out the besi
in kids!
♦> *i*
“C.E.”: Some years ago it was my
lot to clear-out the rolltop-desk of a
brain-surgeon who had died. Every
drawer in that desk was crammed with
empty brandy- and champagne-bottles.
It had been his pleasant practice before
leaving for the large metropolitan hospi-
tal every morning to get outside a small
bottle of champagne well laced with
brandy. It was with this mixture inside
him that he performed on the skulls of
his patients, and with considerable
success.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fiv”: The opening of the new bridge
over the Yarra at Abbotsford reminds
me, after 55 years, of the curious rites
boys have of testing eligibility for
entrance to “the gang.” Near a cement
wall was a large drainpipe designed to
carry stormwater from road-gutters to
the stream below. To gain first-class
honors and “the gang’s” approval, one
had to inject himself, feet-first, into the
pipe and elbow a subterranean journey
towards the outlet, to emerge, boots
threshing, amid a small avalanche of tin-
cans, stones and other debris —a fully-
recognised member.
❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: Friends were doubtful
when I announced an intention of pedal-
ling across Switzerland, though I dis-
claimed any desire of emulating
Hannibal’s elephants, even with three-
speed gears. As it turned out, the leg-
work was no great chore, but finding a
level 6ft. soft enough to scratch a hip-
hole in was. I’ve never lain so off-the-
horizontal since Dad used the north-east
leg of the bed for a backlog!,
“Harbel”: Discussing a proposed
addition to my mate’s house I noticed
that he consistently pronounced the word
“patio” as “pat-ee-o”; he being a
fellow who generally gets these things
right, I began wondering whence I
acquired my habitual pronunciation,
“pay-she-o.” Neither of my dictionaries
mentioned the word, so I decided to
adopt my mate’s pronunciation next
time the subject came up. I did; and
would have been happy at that —if I
hadn’t noticed that he’d adopted mine.
Tried the library, and found the word in
a newly-compiled dictionary: “pah-tee-
oh.” I call ’em terraces now.
“Wusslean”: Having wearied of
normal holiday pursuits and pastimes and
nearly driven Mrs. Wusslean mad, my
two young hopefuls were banished to the
garage-workshop. Nothing except the
noise of sawing and hammering was
heard for the rest of the afternoon: at
tea-time they emerged with their sister’s
discarded pram, to which lath-and-
cardboard wings some 3ft. or 4ft. across
had been fitted. This device, it was
explained, was to be towed behind a
pushbike until it attained sufficient speed,
when the “plane” would rise gracefully
and soar through the air. During the
evening meal I explained patiently why
this experiment in aerodynamics was
doomed to failure. Afterwards, the
males of the family adjourned to a lane
which sloped steeply to a smooth, level
stretch, and one lad mounted his bike
and pedalled furiously downhill, towing
the pram. As he reached the level road
the “plane” glided about 3ft. above-
ground until the bike stopped suddenly
and its rider narrowly escaped serious
injuries from the hurtling contraption.
By the end of the holidays half the kids
in the district will be towing “flying
prams,” to their intense delight and the
vexation of f he young ladies from whom
they are borrowed. Then some back-
yard-manufacturer will turn out a com-
mercial model and make a fortune.
Hm-m-m . . .
When on the air the compere asks
A hard or awkward question
And victims writhe upon their tasks,
Their brains in a congestion,
And thickness fills the atmosphere
And silence waxes grhm,
As though to say, “We’re all still here,”
The compere puts in: “Hm ... ?”
You’d think so many hhmane men
Would make a quiz-collection;
l feel if l hear “Hm . . . ?” again
I’ll die of interjection ;
I can’t advise the vulgar “Eh . . . ?”
The choice, of course, is slhm . . .
You, Reader —what have you to say . ..?
You’ve thought of something . . . ?
Hm . . .?
A variation, to be sure,
Relieves the awful moment :
The “Hm . . put after, not before
The answer, as a comment;
Such cynicism l never knew
Or faith in man so dhm,
As in an English interview
That constant “Hm . . . Hmm . . .
Hm . . . !”
“And this young lady —hm your
niece ?”
“No, no; my secretary ;
She” — “Hm •. • You’ve just returned
from Greece ?”
“Yes, I’m an antiquary ;
We study . . ” “Hm . . . You’re on a
book ?”
“Not one the world will skhm.”
“Hm ... The young lady acts as cook ?”
“She takes things down.” “Oh!
Hm . . . 1”
Come to think of it, in life
There’s not much “Hm . . ” won’t
cover;
The angry “Hm . . . !” becomes the wife
As the soft “Hm . . . ?” the lover;
Alas, that as the questioning cup
Is answered to the brhm,
Most of our “Hms . . . ?” are ended-up
With the distasteful “Hm . . . !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


DURING the Petrov case, the journal-
ists were llat-out in the Albert Hall,
Canberra. Typewriters clattering, people
shouting at each other above the din,
others dictating their stories into the
telephone. A large policeman appeared
at the door. “Silence!” he thundered.
You could have heard a pin drop. The
atmosphere was stretched like a piece of
elastic. “If any of you are interested,”
intoned the arm of the law, “there’s a
pie-cart out here.” —“F.A.M.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: We were pulling slowly
out of a station when he sneezed and
ejected his lower-plate through the open
window on to the platform. With sur-
prising agility for a 70-year-old, he
rushed out the nearest door, retrieved his
teeth and rejoined the train two carriages
down, returning to my carriage along the
“One white and one brown at number-ten , Arthur."
I corridors. As he settled back in his seat
his freshly-washed molars announced
their return with a triumphant grin.
♦♦♦ * ♦>
“Ceg”: “Bumpkin” (B. 18/l/’56) on
the blessing of the fishing-fleet at Queens-
cliff by the Archbishop of Melbourne
credits his Lordship with powers of pro-
pulsion which I am sure he does not
possess. I have grave doubts whether
that cross tossed from the Queenscliff
pier fell into “the waves of Bass Strait.
More likely Port Phillip Bay. And the
fishermen-population of the Cliff does
not run into hundreds. Anyway, it s to
be hoped the ceremony does result in a
few more fish, as the catch has been any-
thing but heavy for some years. Net
result of the doings so far seems to be the
loss of £6O by an onlooker who had his
pocket picked during the blessing.
* * ❖
“Tackline S.”: No one had known that
a cuckoo-clock was on board. The
threat of disturbed slumbers was un-
welcome. Questioning brought puzzled
glances until it was noticed that two
cabin-radios of healthy volume tuned to
stations in different States had been
spitting time-signal pips a split-second
apart.
* * ❖
“Doynest”: The Sydney householder
who replaced lawns with green concrete
slabs (B. 18 /1/’56) might be like a Mel-
bourne man who had a attack of
hayfever every time he mowed his
backyard-lawn. His physician advised
him to leave the mower alone ; so the
householder had the entire backyard
paved. The cost, he says, has been saved
in doctors’ and chemists’ bills.
*X* ❖
“Dorian”: Scanning a 1927 Bulletin
I came across a passage in a short-story
in which, surprisingly, final quotation-
marks had been forgotten. It was titled
“The Proofreader.”
$ ®
“C.A.A.”: Main reason why fleets of
buses operated by three private com-
panies are taking over from the trams in
Geelong (Vic.) is that trams were the only
unprofitable side of the State Electricity
Commission’s undertakings. Road-
repair consequent upon the disappear-
ance of the trams is estimated to cost
about £250,000.
**♦ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: As an instructress at Brisbane
Repatriation Department’s school for
planned day-activities Enid Elliott, a
Brisbane girl, blind since she was 3, has
in her charge 14 soldiers from two world
wars. Two days a week she teaches
handicrafts to spastic children, and pre-
pares material and comperes a weekly
radio-session. She has bronze, silver and
gold medals for ballroom-dancing.
Occasionally she acts in A.B.C. plays.
.*♦ *> ❖
“Sister Ellell”: It is a family-joke in
some doctors’ households that the only
medicine on tap comes from the sample-
box. I met-up with the wife of a
specialist who is well established in his
own sphere, and as I had not seen her
for years I inquired after the family.
“Oh,” replied she, “the boys did well in
last year’s' public exams, though both
had German-measles at the time. One
received a scholarship and the other a
bursary.” I congratulated her, especially
in view of the misery-making indisposi-
tion, and she replied airily, “When my
husband was preening himself on their
achievements I told him that a mother
often knew more by intuition than any
specialist, so on the day of the exams
1 ferreted around in the sample-box,
and gave them one tablet each, of every-
thing not marked poison.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Touching once more the
delicate subject of garbage, our council’s
introduction of twice-weekly collections
Was made possible by the division of
labor. Happening to be off-color when
the garbage was collected I saw garbage-
officer No. 1 walk to-and-fro across the
road, dragging the bins over the nature-
strips to the edge of the curb and remov-
ing the lids, which he tossed on the
ground; No. 2 drove the new garbage-
collection machine, which churns the
refuse into small fragments as it goes
along ; No. 3 and No. 4 grabbed the lid-
less bins, tipped their contents into the
machine, and deposited them on the
nature-strip near their lids. It was an
excellent example of what management
can do with the humblest of tasks, the
only drawback being that No. 1 somehow
got a couple of streets ahead of the gang.
By the time they arrived at least a third
of the bins had been overturned by our
" I wish you'd slop commenting on how bad a fire it is!"
dogs, while householders rushing forth to
replace the covers had undone the work
of No. 1. Four well-paid blokes are now
doing (with the aid of an expensive
vehicle) what the old-fashioned rubbish-
oh used to accomplish with a dray and a
well-trained neddy.
* * *»
“Nobs”: The disgusted Sydney train-
traveller, trying for what has come to be
known coloquially as the
snarled “Not even room for a dog!
Just then a little black kelpie appeared
on the platform outside, sniffed in me
direction of the carriageway, wagged his
tail and trotted on.
& ♦>
“Nakhoda”: At the great Jamboree of
Boy Scouts in Melbourne I walked
around the camp and talked to
Indonesians, Malaccans, Singaporeans,
Brunei Malays, etc., in their own
language, which I happen to know,
though not half as well as they knew
mine. The day was cold and wet 'and
without exception I found them lying on
their pallets reading American comics
just like their Australian brothers. So
much for the effect of “the mingling of
races and cultures.”
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: My garageman, who has
achieved prosperity by simply charging
a quid-an-hour for labor —netting a
cool £22-a-week for himself on every
mechanic after paying him £lB on a 40-
hour basis —has reached the stage when
he can afford to ignore the lowly
ha’penny on a bill. This comes about
when, say, I get three shots of upper-
cylinder lubricant at a-penny-ha’penny
a shot. He doesn’t knock the odd
ha’penny off, of course —he makes it the
next penny. Last month I got two shots
of three, making the odd ha’penny twice,
and one of four, making even pence. He
split the bill into two separate sections,
on each of which was the odd ha’penny;
each of which he promptly converted into
a brown. Net result, one-penny extra
profit for nothing. I’ll bet he’ll gnash
his teeth down to the gums next month
when I trick him by only getting shots of
u.-c.-l. in multiples of two.
# ❖ ♦>
“C.A.L.”: Cyril, from the manchester-
department, laid the daily aside with a
grunt. “What’s up? . . . The news not
so good today?” asked George from
hardware. “You can say that again,
replied Cyril. “Another migrant-ship is
berthing at Fremantle.” A groan went
up from the group of counterjumpers
and salesmen. “How many is she bring-
ing in?” one asked. “One-thousand-and-
fifty-two,” the reader answered. “No
Poms, all from the European mainland.
Eight-hundred-and-thirty-seven are going
on to the eastern States and two-hundred-
and-fifteen are settling here in Western
Australia.” Frank from the pharmacy
swore. “I started work here when
Calwell kissed the fifty-thousandth
migrant, and for over five years Ive
battled with the New Australian tongue
right up till when Holt welcomed the
millionth Naussie. Now two-hundred-
and-fifteen more of the blighters are
landing here. I’ll bet every man, woman
and child of them will come to my
counter for the baby-strainer or the
medicine for the bellyache!”
“Wusslean”: Occasionally the atmos-
phere of a radio-play is spoiled
(B. 21/, 12/’55) by ignorance of scientific
principles. Some years ago Poe’s horror-
story “The Pit and the Pendulum” was
dramatised: the ticking of a large clock
was heard when the victim of the Inquisi-
tion lay, bound and helpless, as a huge
pendulum fitted with a scythe-blade swept
to and fro across his body, gradually
descending. As the pendulum was
suspended from the high ceiling 30ft.
overhead, the oscillations would have
been extremely slow, for the swing of a
pendulum varies proportionately to the
square root of the length. A pendulum
measuring 39in. swings once in one
second, so the 30ft.-device in the play
should have oscillated at roughly three-
second intervals, instead of every half-
second as the sound-effects man made it
appear.
* ♦>
“W.P.T.”: Was glad to see that many
Blue Mountains curio-shops had new
curios and souvenirs for sale—quaint
little carts, dolls, houses and other novel-
ties inscribed “Visit Katoomba Souvenir.”
Went in to buy one. Underneath it
was branded “Made in Japan.”
* ❖
“Harden”: There has been a mild
boil-over in our bailiwick on the desir-
ability of having an Olympic Pool.
Alderman Squinge, lone “anti” voice in
the council, wants a referendum to see if
the ratepayers really wish to ante-up for
new baths. So when two baths of the
“iron, enamelled, domestic purpose, for
the use of” rolled off a truck the other
day, and neatly parked themselves out-
side the swing-doors of the local, an
inmate set down his beer, thoughtfully
stroked his nose, and released his dictum
to the other bar-flies : “Pass the word on
to Alderman Squinge; no more worries.
The new baths have arrived, and they’re
on the best blank site in the municipality.
No need for any referendum now!”
“Baggyduds”: Ensnared by a friend to
attend his son’s birthday-party, I huddled
in the corner near the sherry, averting my
gaze from the cloying mess on the party-
table. My friend, a frustrated financier,
was explaining how he could make a
fortune if only the Government would
permit him to organise a £500,000-
lottery ; remarks which lifted the limp
conversazione among the belly-bursting
competitors. Ten-years-old, sister of the
host, said that if she won Daddy’s money
she would buy a billy-go-cart, complete
with billy. Host, eight years exact,
reckoned he would acquire the tuck-shop
opposite the Runcorn (Q.) school.
Undoubtedly a sound business proposi-
tion ; but my friend is unable to decide
whether he is rearing a Billy Bunter or a
businessman.
SLIGHT DISCREPANCY
She wolfs chocolates by the pound;
But she won’t eat bread —she found
With “starchy” things she put on too
much weight.
Lottery-tickets she won’t buy
If she’s seen a butterfly,
It’s raining, or the number ends in
eight.
She won’t pay a bill, or make
Purchases (for safety’s sake)
Between set hours upon a certain day,
Or upon a trip depart
If her astrologic chart
By zodiacal sign has warned her nay.
On a scorching day she wears
Hat that’s crownless, and so bares
Most of her cranium to the solar rays.
She’ll complain about the noise
Made, after school, by boys;
Yet, for her, the day-long radio is a
craze.
The horse that she selects
For a bet may have defects;
But, hang it, they are trifling things
beside
Her twin needs: that the bloke
Who is mounted on the moke
Should have a chin that’s cleft, and be
brown-eyed.
I met this dame today ;
She was just off on her way
To the debating-club that she infests.
Every confidence she held
The opponents would be felled.
For her side ’twas the easiest of tests.
She had arguments galore
To put up, and strongly, for
The affirmative. I got the tidings then
From this Wizardess of Oz
That the subject-matter was:
That women are more logical than
MEN.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of ffie bunch
since
L a
(ytlancb
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
“F.S.”: Besides the latest Wynne
prize—his second—Charles Bush has
won the Crouch prize four times, the
Melrose once, has run into numerous
places in the Dunlop competitions, has
landed awards at Adelaide, Bendigo,
Perth and Albury, and has been given a
scholarship by the British Council.
• •
This year’s Archibald was Ivor Hele’s
fifth —same score as Longstaff. Dargie
and W. B. Mclnnes are still top-
scorers with seven wins each.
• •
Sighted at Perth Airport, when they
dropped off the Qantas Constellation
from Indonesia, E. N. Leibascher and
wife. He’s vice-president of Standard
Vacuum Oil, and plans to with
executives of his company in Australia
for a few weeks before pushing on to
the U.S. via New Zealand. Last time
they landed here they stepped off a
Dutch ship at Fremantle after a rocky
trip from Sumatra, in 1942.
• •
In Melbourne, in the presence of Aus-
tralia’s top Naval brass, Admiral Felix
B. Stump, U.S. Commander-in-Chief,
Pacific (in town for the Seato conference),
presented Acting-Commander W. G.
Bowles, D.S.C., R.A.N., with the Legion
of Merit. The award, like the earlier
Distinguished Service Cross, was for
action in Korea, which is described as
follows in the British citation:
Lieutenant-Commander Bowles has
proved himself to be the most outstanding
operational pilot in the Sydney Carrier
Air Group. Although he has been shot
down once and on numerous occasions had
his aircraft damaged by enemy gunfire he
has remained completely imperturbable
and has continued to fly against the enemy
with his usual dash and vigor. He has
shown himself to be fearless, a natural
leader in the air and an outstanding
example of what a fighter-pilot should be.
Thanks to his inspired leadership his
squadron [BO5, Sea Fury fighter-squadron]
has enjoyed some very marked successes.
The American citation is longer and
gives more details of operations. The
erstwhile fighter-pilot is now Chief
Staff Officer (Air) to the Hag Officer
in Charge, East Australian Area.
• •
Appointed State Librarian in Perth,
F. S, Sharr, a rugged, square-built
Englishman, who had a mort of library
experience in the U.K. before coming to
Westralia in 1953. Did a good job
organising lending-library facilities in
various parts of W.A.
H. H. LLOYD, S.A. financier and director
of a string of companies, including S.A.
Brewing Co. and Adelaide Steamship Co.
Son of the Sir Howard Lloyd who was
chairman of directors of the Bank of
Adelaide.
Alfred Huybers (herewith) owns and
controls Queensland Pastoral Supplies
Pty., Ltd. —one of those business
romances starting from scratch and now
handling a turnover of over £2 million.
An F.R.G.S. and past-president of the
R.G.S.A. (he led an expedition to the
Carnarvon Ranges), he was also president
of the Australian Institute of Interna-
BLUE-WATER YACHT
tional Affairs. Employers’ representative
at the 1.L.0. conference at Geneva in
1938, life-member of the Montrose
Crippled Children’s Home and the
Queensland Bush Children’s Health
Scheme (to which he gave his seaside
home), in between times, for the past 20
years, he has been chasing the Forster
Cup in his restricted yacht Dolphin. Now
has a real “blue-water” yacht, Flying
Saucer, in which he knocked eight hours
off the Brisbane-Gladstone record. Patron
of Queensland Yachting Association, and
a Rotarian.
• •
When A. S. Coughlan, Albury manager
of the Bank of New South Wales, opened
his savings-bank branch a fortnight ago
the first depositor was a 16-year-old
schoolboy, Jonathan Clifton Mott. This
was not a matter of chance; young Mott
is a great-grandson of George H. Mott,
founder of the Albury “Border Post,”
who was the first depositor of the parent
bank when it opened for business at
Albury on September 1, 1856. Two
intervening generations of Motts still
bank at the ’Wales: as proprietors
of the “Border Morning Mail,” successor
to the “Post,” they are preparing to
celebrate the centenary of the press in
Albury.
• •
Back at New England University
after soaking-up knowledge overseas,
Prof. D. Howie, head of the Psychology
Department, and R. A. Smith, senior
lecturer in Physics. Big difference,
Howie says, between British and
American methods of teaching: in the
U.K. high standard of selection, small
classes run on the tutorial system ; in the
U.S. enormous elementary classes. His
conclusion—British system too restric-
tive, American system too liberal, Aus-
tralian system of selecting and training
students the happy mean. Smith has
been on a British Council Scholarship,
working with Massey and lasted at
London University College—inelastic
collisions between ions and atoms,
charge-swaps when ions transfer their
charges to gas-molecules, processes by
which negative-ions lose their electrons
in such collisions, and the like. These
dark matters he will further investigate
at New England.
Retired from the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, John Brake, for
21 years chief of the agricultural division.
A Melbourne University triple-blue of
other days, a State and Australian pole-
vault and high-jump champion, and
State Australian Rules footballer, he was
2 i./c. 2nd Medium Artillery Regiment
and C.O. of Melbourne University Rifles
At his retirement he was a member of
the V.F.L. special tribunal.
• •
“J.F.S.”: Retirement from first-class cricket
of Bill Johnston will deprive me of a place
apart among fellow-onlookers at Test-matches
There would be Big Bill lolloping down to
bowl like a left-armed, though quite un-tigrine,
O’Reilly; there would be a batsman starting
glumly back for the pavilion; and there would
be myself, seated in the outer stand at Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground, reminiscent: “That’s
the very ball he used to get me with!” But
the Bill Johnston of my experience was a
schoolboy of 13, enjoying an after-school
knockabout on a bare concrete-pitch behind
Colac High School. Even then he could make
the ball, a seamless compo., swerve and duck
magically.
Bill and his brother Alan used to swing
aboard our school-bus near their father’s farm
at Ondit (Vic.) —two lanky chaps with wide
grins. Alan Johnston, who bowled right-arm
swingers with an action that was almost a
mirrored reflection of his younger brother’s,
might also have gone far in cricket, but he was
to fall in a grimmer game with the R.A.A.F.
It’s a measure of the soppiness of many
post-war barrackers that Bill Johnston, fairest
of sportsmen, should have been booed and slow-
clapped after a successful —and just—appeal
during the West Indies Test some years back
—an irritating period when Melbourne
crowds cheered the visitors excessively, going
all one-eyed in reverse. The batsman was a
newspaper-pet; one of their beloved “freak”
bowlers. In the face of a mob-demonstration
that would have made a star tennis-player weep,
Big Bill sat on the turf and laughed till the
foolery subsided.
His departure from big cricket will be
regretted, particularly around Beeac, his home-
ground, where such families as the Barnards,
Pinks and Langs have produced three and four
generations of fine cricketers amid the salt-
lakes and basalt barriers of Victoria’s Western
District. >
• •
Tall, blue-eyed, 34, with a red and
luxuriant beard, Dr. Bengt Danielsson—
the Swedish anthropologist who was one
BALSA-RAFT
of the Kon Tiki crew and is here, with
wife and small daughter, to write a book;
about Australia—does not look like a
Viking, despite origin, beard and crossing
the Pacific on a balsa-raft. He looks like
an intellectual behind a Viking-beard. He
grew the adornment during a twelve-
month 'sojourn with Amazon head-
hunters, whose ferocity, he says, has been
exaggerated. Simple, naked, honest
people, with a few curious customs to
which they cling with notable conservat-
ism. Danielsson spoke of them with
affection.
Trained in antfiropology at Uppsala
University (founded 1477), further
trained in South America with a
scientific team, in his private study with
the headhunters, Kon Tiki, two years
at the University of Washington as a
Research Fellow, back to Peru, then the
Pacific islands again. Since 1952 he
has been associate-anthropologist on the
staff of Bishop Museum, Honolulu, and
he has also been living on western Tahiti
in the Gauguin country. Fascinating stuff
in the Pacific islands for an anthropo-
logist. A few old men full of legends and
f olk-lore never yet put on record.
At The Bulletin office Danielsson
delivered himself of this in fast, fluent
English, punctuated with an explosive
‘Huh! ” On the side, he writes travel-
books, in Swedish, and he is careful to
draw a distinction between the two types
of work. The Australian book, for
instance, will be written in his capacity as
a travel-writer—not as an anthropologist.
• •
Secretary of the Victorian Artists’
Society Rex Bramleigh, a Meldrum pupil,
gets the job of first director of Mildura’s
art-gallery. The late Senator Elliott, a
collector who bought a large number of
Orpens, was mainly responsible for the
new gallery.
• •
‘Tiki”: E. A. (“Gibby”) Gibson,
0.8. E., N.Z. Director of Civil Aviation,
has begun his final inspection-tour.
Big-framed, quiet-spoken and tenacious,
he’s been identified with civil or military
aviation in N.Z. since the end of War I.
A civil-engineer, he was Public Works
aerodrome-engineer responsible for sit-
ing and building ’dromes throughout the
Dominion when he joined the R.N.Z.A.F.
for War 11. The 0.8. E. came in 1943,
for a fine job as engineer and adminis-
trator in N.Z. and the Pacific. Back in
1937 he commanded an expedition sur-
veying possible air-routes to Hawaii,
and a year earlier had initial command
of the first fully-manned N.Z. Territorial
squadron. When the stoush started he
became director-of-works in the Air
Force, and speeded development that
helped expand N.Z.’s air-power; later
he linked-up with Uncle Sam’s engineer-
ing forces. Australians met him when
he crossed the Tasman in connection with
establishment of torpedo-bomber squad-
rons, and he subsequently had a niche
in an undersea-warfare section of
Halsey’s h.-q. in New Caledonia.
“Gibby” has done a good job with civil-
flying. Sensible safety - regulations,
reasonably administered, have chopped
accident-rate of topdressing-aircraft
flying over N.Z. hill-country.
“Watto”: March brings retirement to
Dr. Leslie Issot Grange, head of the
Geological Survey Division of N.Z.
Department of Scientific and Industrial
Research. He joined the survey when it
was part of the Mines Department, in
1919, and when D.S.I.R. was formed in
1927 he went across with it. A pioneer
in soil-research, he left Geological
Survey to establish the Soil Bureau, of
which he was head till he went back to
the survey, the first to have bossed two
of D.S.I.R.’s divisions. He’ll take a bus-
man’s holiday for a start, attending a
geological conference in Mexico in
August.
• •
Waterside-strike permitting, Captain
Kenneth Urquhart, R.A.N.,
goes to England in Orion in April to join
the R.A.N. liaison set-up as Naval
Engineer-Officer. His g.-m. job at
Garden Island Naval Dockyards will be
filled by Captain J. W. N. Bull, now
General Overseer, Eastern Area (Sydney)
and Staff Officer (E) to the Flag Officer
in Charge, Eastern Area.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Mrs. Herbert Syme, widow
of former “Age” director J. Herbert Syme.
She is survived by two sons, David Syme and
Hugh Syme, the latter g.-m. and director of
the “Age,” and holder of both the George
Medal and the George Cross.
At Auckland (N.Z.), Ellen Octavia Bond,
former Mayoress of Hamilton, a cousin of Sir
George Grey and a descendant of John Graham
of Claverhouse, a character Sir Walter Scott
immortalised. Thus her passing breaks links
with New Zealand and Scottish history.
In Adelaide, at 62, Alexander Bruce Emmett,
Old Digger and director of Emmett and Sons,
Ltd.


\ MV TO w TWO
eHLLLIUGS A
FOR. TiH 6Se 6£ANS /
v V/
/ LI TAKE THoge To MoTfIER..
next vooQ. just hanpep
me over, a Socket of them
He VoBSn/t KMou) WHAT TO /
Vo LOlfH ALL OF HiG )
PARABLE OF THE SOWER


ABORIGINALITES
TN an Enzed traffic-department office
- 1 - the stout Maori presented an old
driving-licence and demanded a renewal.
The traffic-officer, who knew him, looked
at it and said, “This is not yours. It’s
your brother’s. Tell him he’ll have to
come here in person.” “He can’t come
here,” said the Maori. “He’s dead.”
“In that case,” said the t.-0., “why get a
new licence? He can’t use it.” “It’s not
for him. I want it. He left everything
to me,” the Maori told him. When I
left the traffic-officer was still trying to
explain.—“Pylos.”
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Immediately after a hail-"
storm had ripped and flattened the tents
of holiday-makers on the shores of Lake
Illawarra (N.S.W.) the water-level
abruptly rose 4ft., sweeping everything
before it. A boat was flung bodily into
the camping-area, its kellick swinging
wide and ripping the side out of a tent.
It was generally believed that the huge
quantity of hail which fell, accompanied
by the deluging rain, caused the lake to
"All the fellows at work are starting to call me ‘Bunny '"
flood ; but scientific explanation was that
the storm had caused an atmospheric dis-
turbance which, passing over the lake,
brought about a waterspout, sucking the
water to one spot just as a willy-willy
swirls up dust.
* * * *
“Maitri”: I’ve seen exquisite flower-
ing-trees in temple-gardens in the East,
in the Berea above Durban, in the Scil-
lies, Central America, Italy and on the
Riviera, but —excepting only the lilacs at
St. Germaine and Aalsmeer —none I’ve
seen can eclipse the display Sydney’s
“It wasn't so much what I said , it Was the WAY 1 said it that rocked them!"
North Shore can put on in late spring.
Jacarandas and flame-trees positively riot
in mauves and scarlets —where they are
neighbors the ground is carpeted with
beautiful color-contrasts—while the Cape-
chestnuts yield something special, too. The
Illawarra flame-trees sometimes miss a
year’s blooming, but this season they cer-
tainly made up for lost time. One tree
on our block refused to bloom for
years; just when we were prepared to
give it away a severe storm blew its
top off, taking some boughs and all its
leaves. That season the warrior bloomed
magnificently.
• * * *
“Woorarra”: Most birds give forth
their loudest calls or sweetest songs from
prominent positions, but the whipbird
seeks the seclusion of undergrowth. Out
in the open whippies converse in subdued,
somewhat testy tones; they have about
them then a bustling bad-tempered air
that may spring from nervousness. Some-
times —though rarely—whipbirds linger
on in an area after the brush that is their
natural home has been mostly cleared.
My observations suggest that these stay-
puts undergo certain changes. They seem
to lose much of their fear of open spaces,
and some of their rowdiness —the less
thicket the less racket, as it were. Even
more odd, the short hops affected by
whippies on the ground then lengthen
into almost marsupial-like bounds.
“S.”: I wonder if A. M. Blombery is
quite right in his excellent Native Aus-
tralian Plants when he advocates the use
of tins rather than earthenware pots for
bush-seedlings, on the ground that the
pots tend to let moisture evaporate
while the tins retain it. That might be
the best technique for a hot, dry climate,
but in these steamy Sydney summers I’ve
found that the tins stay altogether too
moist, with the result that the tricky
waratahs, in particular, damp-off and
perish with the most heartless rapidity.
In the pots—though I wouldn’t regard
the point as proved until I see what
happens to my last surviving seedlings—
they seem much happier.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maybe the impact of Maori-
landers on Operation Deepfreeze will
have lasting linguistic results. .Yank air-
craft in New Zealand have undergone
changes of name, thanks to the imagina-
tiveness of Lieut.-Commander Ben
Sparks, group-commander. He dis-
covered tlie equivalent of albatross to be
toroa, so he had it painted on the nose
of his Grumman Albatross. The second
triphibian became Toroa Pango, com-
memorating the sooty-albatross and oust-
ing its original title, “Shake, Rattle and
Roll.” Euphony has spread to the two
Dakotas in the group. One is now
Korora, for the blue-penguin, the other
Tawaki, for the crested-penguin. Sparks
is so pleased with his brainwave that he’s
sending details to the makers of the
Grumman in the hope that Toroa may yet
find its niche as a type-name.
* * * *
“Squeaker”: A South Australian
pigeon, which hatched-out a chook’s egg,
was greatly perplexed when its “off-
spring” wouldn’t open its mouth to be
fed and persisted in following it about
while on the ground. The chick was just
as troubled when Ma left it for an
occasional flight.
* * * *
“Old-’un”: Swagging it in Queens-
land from Hughenden to Winton, I
struck the pub on St. Patrick’s Day in
1904. Several wool-teams were pulled
in there for the day, and arguments
cropped-up (induced, or helped, by rum,
or the occasion) between horse-pugs and
bullockies on the pulling-merits of their
respective charges. Upshot was that
two pin- bullocks and two heavy
draughts were tried on a tabletop-wagon
containing 11 tons of wool: The
horses scratched, pulled the wagon a
yard or two, and stopped. The bullocks
were then hitched on and walked away
with the load, apparently without much
effort. Major Paterson (yes, the poet),
whose unit I was in, told me in Egypt in
1915 that a mature western-bred
bullock of the big sort was heavier and
stronger than most horses, and that they
could get a better grip on the ground
by sticking their toes in.
* * * *
“Konmak”: The long, slender, climb-
ing brown-snake of tropical Queensland’s
big-rain belt is known locally as “the
house-snake.” Said to be as venomous
as his brethren of plumper build, he is
not classed as a killer, because his fangs
are so far back in his mouth that he
cannot get a good grip when he strikes.
He does his foraging, by night, climbing
about in every room of the house.
Sometimes he risks camping inside dur-
ing the long wet-season, curled up on a
rafter of an unceiled kitchen, behind the
books on some high shelf, or under the
mattress of an unused bed. More often,
he sleeps by day under the house or in
some shed, doing his inside rummaging
by night. So silently he moves, you
rarely see him; but in the morning the
housewife finds his visiting-card some-
where—a wavy sprinkling of small
white pipeclay-like droppings, evidently
shed as he moved. During 1950’s
record rainfall, we killed half-a-dozen
inside, their length varying from sft. to
7ft. All met their fate by yielding too
early to the pangs of hunger, foraging
round before we were safely out of the
way in bed.
* * * *
“Radiophobe”: Since mention here
some time back of the stick-insect as
master of camouflage I’ve come across a
better one on Eyre Peninsula (S.A.). Also
of that tribe, this chap does more than
look like a dead twig: he doubles for
a living twig of mallee, leaves and all.
We found one floating in a rainwater-
tank at our construction-camp, brought
it inside and placed it on a mallee-branch,
where it revived. It measured about
lOin. in length and wing - span,
had perfect copies of mallee-
leaves for wings (which were not
folded when at rest) and a red and green
body exactly reproducing the branches
of the twig. If you studied it perched on
its branch, then looked away for a
moment, you had your work cut out to
spot it again when you looked back. A
large insect used to fly around the camp
at dusk making a clicking noise, and we
took this to be our insect in action.
Anyone give more intimate details of this
masterpiece?
* * * *
“Maitri”: A visitor from Britain is en-
chanted with Australian wildflowers.
“But the names you give them! ” he com-
plained. ’“Ours have attractive ones:
primrose, London-pride, traveller’s-joy;
but yours are so utterly utilitarian—
flannel-flower, eggs-and-bacon, bottle-
brush! You know, you Aussies just
haven’t any imagination! ”
* * * *
“J.D.W.”: Anything in the Aussie
feminine line to compare with this
Enzed effort? Kay Stratford, the 16-
year-old daughter of a Nelson runholder,
put in a full day in the shearing-shed
of H. E. Higgins at Wakefield, and in
eight hours shore 66 crossbred wethers.
* * * *
“O’Beau”: Probably Australia’s most
dangerous mail-run is that which hugs
a narrow mountain-road overlooking a
1000 ft. chasm between Upper Stone and
Ewan in the Ingham (N.Q.) district. The
route serves isolated timber- and mining-
camps and pack-mules have to be used.
It takes the mailman four days to do
the trip of 113 miles, but, then, he’s a
youngster of 71.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Only in very stormy
weather do we generally see the “lesser
frigate-bird” here in Southern Queens-
land. This persistent hijacker, who
pounces on fishing gulls and terns to
make them drop their prey, is regarded as
a reliable weather-prophet by sailors and
longshoremen; flocks of them, soaring
very high, may be seen sweeping steadily
inshore in wide circles before a coming
storm. Sweeping seaward again, they
tell of better weather coming. Long,
and lean, with forked tails and very wide
wingspread, which would be still wider
if they ever fully straighten their narrow,
pointed wings, they are easily identified,
and anyone who has seen their buzz-
swoop-and-catch act is not likely to
forget them.
THE FARM NEAR NORMAN’S
LANE
That old man at the farm near Norman’s Lane
(Wormwood and horehound winding all the
way)
Waits for his sons to change,
For times to come again
To the hard row
His father had to hoe.
(Show them what’s what, he thinks,
The old man marking time at the wicket-gate;
And best of all, not worry him a bit,
Snug sandwiched in life’s troubles
Like bread about salt meat.)
Niggard as noonday shade,
He stands at the wicket-gate—
A break in the gorse hedge flowing
Over its lurking shadow.
“Times are too good; but still ’n’ all
Them terriers have the mange;
(They catch it from the foxes on the hill);
Kero and mutton-fat’s the stuff;
I’ll mix it soon;
Soon as ye’ve gone.
But wait in the sun.
“A man in armor now—
You’d fix him with a drop of oil at the joints;
But my old woman stiffens in her bed;
And medicine don’t do a mite of good.”
He has dressed the soil to rape it over again.
His features, carved to petulance, endure.
His nose divides the wind, his eyes
Smoulder in caves of darkness,
As he fronts the sea beyond his boundaries.
Far more
Than the skylarks to show for his sixty years :
A scratch-bright car; all fences strained and
strong;
And three spoilt sons to brawl with all day
long;
That girl too smart for her own good, wanting
the best;
Wife Wading through pain to an isle of painless
rest.
But skylarks poise, like Simeon Stylites;
Standing on air, they sing
Of capeweed spread for one long, yellow day.
lomorrow will beat up an easterly swell,
Flood the sea marsh, salt down another soring.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


-rLAZING noon, and as the solitary
horseman rode along the line of fence
across the open plain a little grass-bird
fluttered up from the mean shade of a
post and perched behind the saddle. He
stayed there, immobile, for half-a-mile,
until the belt of scrub was reached.
Above, a frustrated sparrowhawk broke
off the chase. —“Quo Vadis.”
* * * *
“Emel”: Nine years ago a Quantong
(Vic.) angler put into a private dam a
lib. cod he had caught in the near-by
Wimmera River. Three years later his
partner landed this cod again; it was
then over 31b., but again it went back.
Recently it was once more landed, and
this time it didn’t go back. It measured
29in. in length, with 21in. girth, and
weighed 16ilb.
* * * *
“Jock”: Touching on whether a bird
can manage without its tail-feathers,
when I was on Lord Howe Island a year
or two back the Man Friday at our guest-
house seized a marine bird on a cliff and
whipped out its two crimson tail-
feathers. Released, the bird fluttered off,
its steering seemingly unaffected.
* * * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Fijians love New
Year. For days, at all odd hours, bands
"Hey , there! Quit scaling!”
of men, women and children march the
streets, singing and banging empty tins.
The most striking group we saw was com-
posed mostly of women with “salu-salus
(leis) of flowers, flour in their hair,
streaming crepe-paper ribbons. One man
held an empty carbide-drum on his back,
while another marching behind him beat
time on it with sticks. They were led by
an old Fijian dressed in tattered khaki
shorts, his body almost covered with
flowers and paper streamers —and sport-
ing a top hat.
* * * *
“P.K.”: “Fairf’s” spectacle of two
mighty axemen simultaneously attacking
an 18in.-girth standing-block (B.
21 /12/’55) would have the crowd on tip-
toe during the few seconds it lasted—
provided there were no collisions.
However, another event could be in-
cluded in his relay-race, without addi-
tional wood or
prepar a t i o n
double - handed
sawing, uppercut.
An.d, having
demonstrated the
wanton waste of
Australian tree-
felling methods,
competitors could
fell remainder of
tree according to
forestry - regula-
tions of timber-
conscious coun-
tries, by leaving
a stump no higher
than 4in. above
ground-level.
* *
“Brick E”: In
marking bricks to
be cut for arch-
bricks or similar
accurate work a
„ piece broken off
an old - type
gramophone -
record had no
equal. Unlike a
pencil, it didn’t
wear down to the wood and have to
be sharpened every few minutes; and
having no wood on its sides it did not
“gain” size when marking along a
straight-edge or template. It made a
thin, neat line. In this respect the brickie
is the victim of progress; the modern
plastic article won’t make a visible mark
on a brick.
BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON
Surely there can be no greater loveliness
than this smooth seashore /where a lake an
an ocean meet, ~ A
and a full moon touching it all with tenderness,
and a murmur low and sweet. ..
As though that were not enough, a solitary
gull,
silver and beautiful, . ..
noiselessly making his way, knowing full wen
like someone awed, a-tiptoe —he must not break
the spell.
N.S.W.
E. Norman.
THE ART OF BULL-FIGHTING
THERE seems to be no reason why our
seasonal workers such as canecutters,
who are used to wielding a cutting-imple-
ment, and even shearers, some of whom
do the same, shouldn’t still keep in the
big money during the off-season by
becoming picadors, toreadors, matadors,
sfidingdors and other romantic figures of
the plaza de toros in Spain or Mexico.
The only qualifications needed are a
steady eye, a firm hand, a conscientious
guardian-angel, a good sidestep and a
thorough knowledge of bull-psychology.
As all psychology is mostly bull, anyway,
this makes it so much easier to apply.
Ingrowing-eyes may be a slight handi-
cap to their possessor, especially if he
happens to be the picador. He may sling
his pike at the bull’s neck and connect
with his stern, effecting, as it were, a
rump-stake. As all bullring bulls have
been specially bred for the task and are
the possessors of an imposing pedigree,
this public humiliation would be as big
a blow to a bull’s pride as it would be to
a hidalgo asked to sell ice-cream in the
bleachers, and it would, as a consequence,
become justly enraged.
The picador, whose job is to get Fer-
dinand slightly narked, is mounted on a
blindfolded horse. While this is a rather
more satisfactory arrangement than his
being blindfold and the horse given his
unimpaired sight, it is much better if the
bull were to be blindfold and the other
two in full possession of this vital faculty.
But it is doubtful if the authorities would
allow this. Thus the picador will have
to adopt other stratagems if he is to save
himself from being skewered.
As soon as the bull rushes into the
ring with dreadful intent it behoves the
picador to use the element of surprise.
Calmly sitting his steed, he could be either
filing his nails, doing a bit of tatting, or
reading the latest beef-sales report from
the morning-paper.
The bull, rendered deeply suspicious
by such a seemingly innocent action —or
rather inaction —will promptly prop and
glance around him, nervously expecting
that this may be a blind to cover an attack
from another quarter. This, then, will be
the signal for the picador to dismount,
saunter leisurely up to the now-
thoroughly-bewildered animal, and jab
him nonchalantly in the neck with his pike.
This is sure to bring the house down.
Then, pulling on his running-shoes, he
should easily be able to beat the bull (who
by then should begin to show signs of
real annoyance) back to his horse, and
make for the general direction of the
Members’ Stand.
The banderillo, whose task it is to hurl
the banderillas at the bull and thus get
him properly mad, will find it prudent to
discover first from some official what is
that particular bull’s best time for
100yds. Should it be 9.ssec. from a
standing start he should make certain
that he himself can do the distance m
9.4 and that he is assured of a flying-
start, otherwise he might soon after be
flying himself. His actions are of course
uninhibited—his speed won’t be ham-
pered by having a horse under him.
The banderilla is a sort of large dart
with a flag on the end of it. Excellent
practice in the use of it may be first
obtained by long sessions of dart-throwing
at the pub. The fact that the target at the
pub will be fixed while that of the bull-
ring is extremely mobile will make little
difference. It will help perfect the ban-
derillo’s wristwork, footwork and timing,
and leadjo the development of a good
follow-through, without which he might
find it difficult to penetrate the bull’s rind.
Another accomplishment which must
prove invaluable to the banderillo is ven-
triloquism. With the enraged bull rush-
ing at breakneck speed towards him, all
the bull-teaser has to do is throw his
voice behind the animal, using the perfect
imitation of the soft mooing of a cow.
The bull, unless he is quite unnatural, will
immediately apply the four-leg brakes
and screech to a stop by digging two
parallel trenches with his hooves. As he
looks swiftly behind him in pleased anti-
cipation the banderillo may stroll back,
draw with a chalk a rough outline of a
dartboard on the neck of the still-bemused
animal, and, standing back, cast his darts
to score a couple of “twenties. He
should, however, be prepared for a quick
rev.-up in case the aroused bull seeks a
swift revenge for this cruel blow to his
hopes.
The development of a stentorian voice
is another sure means of getting a solid
advantage over the most savage of bulls.
When he roars, roar back at him even
louder. I have always found this capitally
effective, both at the office and at home,
and there is not the slightest reason why
it should be less so in the bullring. It
must clearly show the bull that the ban-
derillo will not be intimidated by oral
shock-tactics, and he will no doubt absorb
the lesson, and—it is hoped for the ban-
derillo’s sake—at the first go.
Of those who form the team for the
eventual reduction .of the bull to the
state when he is to be thought of only
in terms of choice cuts, the toreador is
perhaps the best-equipped to survive. His
training should include a couple of years
on the railways in the capacity of safety-
man for a group of fettlers working on
heavy-traffic lines. This will ensure him
the most facile use of the waved red flag.
"This’ll end all Wars —the crossbow with telescopic-sights!"
Another “must”, for him is the posses-
sion of a hypnotic stare. A dog can be
outstared by a menaced man and be made
to slink away thoroughly cowed, so that
it seems reasonable to suppose that a
bull could similarly be induced to slink
'away bulled.
Immediately the bull starts to bellow,
or otherwise evince signs of evaporating
amiability, the toreador —who must, of
course, be as well a singer—could say
sharply: “Oh, run away, Ferdie —can’t
you see I’nasßizet?” The bull, naturally
aware that had it not been for all the
publicity given to the sport by the com-
poser of “Carmen” he might be out of a
job, will back apologetically away.
He may further confuse his four-footed
opponent by singing the “Toreador
Song” in a falsetto. The bull, expecting
it in the usual baritone, will look around
for the soprano. His job of wearing Fer-
dinand out may also be speeded by sling-
ing surreptitiously a handful of buckshot
under Ferd’s hooves when Ferd is in full
cry after him. When Ferd’s hooves go
from under, however, the toreador
should exercise prudence by making cer-
tain he is not immediately underneath
when approximately 9001 b. of beef and
bone descend with a dull thud.
Should the bull put his head down and
paw the earth ferociously prior to charg-
ing, the toreador may confound him by
doing the same; and by tossing the earth
forwards—instead of backwards like the
bull stupidly does, to no avail —he can
ensure that a good eyeful of dust will
spoil the bull’s aim.
The matador, or espada, is he who de-
livers the coup-de-grace to the bull with
a short sword.
One of the things he must be certain
of before entering the ring is that it is
not too short. Matadors are given to
whittling away idly at their swords to
while away the time when they are wait-
ing for their call, and it is most mortify-
ing for a matador to yank out his sword
to apply the final stroke, only to find that
he has only about an inch-and-a-half of
Toledo steel between the point and the
hilt.
Should the bull still be belligerent
despite the efforts of colleagues, the mata-
dor may reduce the animal swiftly to
a state of the deepest gloom by produc-
ing from his pocket a bottle of beef-
extract and proceeding to help himself to
a few spoonfuls —a subtle hint that the
bull facing him is just a feed for him.
After the coup-de-grace has been ad-
ministered the matador should make cer-
tain that rigor mortis has begun to set
in properly before he bends down to pick
up the shower of coins that have been
tossed-in ecstatically with their plaudits
by the admiring throng. His position
would tempt any but the very deadest
of bulls to take a mean advantage.
BO.


Act now to protect
Your Estate
through the years ahead
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint
an experienced Executor—such as the Union Trustee
Company. During nearly 70 years of administration
of every class of estate the Company has amassed a
fund of experience such as no one person could
achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists, the expert
services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in each
of the three Eastern States is readily available—to
provide valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges
are moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain
these services at a personal interview —or you may
prefer to write for a copy of the Company’s free
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AU
(Incorporated in Victoria)
STRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Normaa J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) •
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman) •’
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; The Hon. Sir Henry
Manning, K.8.E., Q.C.. M.L.C.; Bertram J. F. Wright MB E
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. b'
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. •
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Avon-
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson ’
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E N Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. 0. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT 23
Business. Rollery.Ete.
all the shocks that are coming.
Though most well-established
and soundly-managed concerns
are maintaining their div.-rates,
the present will prove a testing
period for companies not so
firmly founded.
Costs will continue to be the
worst snag. In most industries
the full effect of the marginal
increases, plus basic-wage lifts in
some States, has not yet been felt.
The cumulative impact of wage-
increases, freight-increases and
the like will become more notice-
able as each industry passes the
burden on.
There is a partly-false front
given to prevailing “prosperity”
by the extent of consumer-
demand, whereby Australians —
and New Australians—are living,
in effect, by taking in each other’s
washing. But two aspects of the
economy show signs of ominous
weakness—the export trade and
the supply of capital works and
services.
In transport we are particularly
vulnerable. We have obsolete
steam-locomotives where other
countries are running economical
diesels. Our rolling-stock is age-
ing and inadequate. Shipping
freights are far too high on the
Australian coast, and in present
industrial circumstances there
seems to be little hope of their
being reduced.
The capital aspect of our
economy can’t be ignored for
ever. We have been living on
past construction of capital-
Economic Merry-go-round
"DUOYANCY in the share-
** markets which followed the
New Year opening continued
until the last week in January;
then there came a check to
almost the entire market, after
which rises in bids were of a
particularly selective nature.
The present week opened with
the market-level very slightly
above what it was a year ago,
and considerably below the peak
of 1955.
Interim dividends so far
declared for 1955-56 mostly show
a maintenance of the rates paid
at the same time in the previous
year. Bradford Cotton Mills and
Sydney Cotton Mills, both in the
difficult textile business, have
held their interims at last term’s
rate.
The effect of credit-restriction
and the fall in wool-prices, with
curtailment of imports, has not
yet shown up in the figures of
many manufacturers or traders.
The pinch is more likely to be
revealed in the present (final) half
of the year. There will be com-
pensating factors for some manu-
facturers in the reduced competi-
tion from overseas, but the posi-
tion will take a few months yet
to sort itself out.
What further casualties there
are in the offing in the textile,
electrical and similar overcapi-
talised industries have still to be
shown. But it is unlikely that
the market has yet experienced
works for a long time now, but
there must come a time when
> they will become completely
inadequate and obsolete if not
'sufficiently supplemented. Then
the gay consumer-goods merry-
go-round will break down, if it
doesn’t do so before.
The increasing cost of borrow-
ing money is a symptom of over-
consumption and inadequate pro-
duction. It is also a symptom of
the credit-squeeze arising out of
the drop in exports. Both are
symptoms of high production-
costs in the Commonwealth.
“But the other gentlemans right, sir—he WAS here first”
In his nation-wide address
from Canberra on Australia Day,
Governor-General Sir William
Slim said good profits went with
good management, and high
wages with high output. All had
to realise that there was a direct
relation between the standard of
living and the standard of
working.
It is a text that is worth study
even within the precincts of the
Stock Exchange.
Wool Exports
TJECAUSE 624 million pounds
** of wool was exported during
the half-year to December 31,
compared with 515 million
pounds during the same period
in the preceding season, receipts
for wool exported from Aus-
tralia in the first half of 1955-56
were £2 million higher at £162
million.
About half the season’s clip
has been exported—perhaps a
shade more than half. If present
prices continue, procjeeds from
the 1955-56 clip should fetch
within £3O million of the
previous year’s cheque. But the
larger clip will be responsible for
the drop not being much
heavier. Average prices are
down by about lOd. a pound.
Prices at auction during the
past few weeks have been better
than the season’s average to
date.
Santos (Wilkatana)
pROM L. Owen: The
announcement that the
striking of a zone of oil-
impregnated limestone, encoun-
tered in the Wilkatana bore at
574 ft. to 590 ft. (B. 11/1/’56) and
then down to 761 ft., has been fol-
lowed by the occurrence of a
less viscous crude below what
appears to be an impervious
band in crystalline dolomitic rock
at 775 ft., is heartening news. Not
only does it confirm the existence
of conditions favorable to the
generation of petroleum, but it
shows, also, that some of the oil,
in its upward migratory passage,
has been trapped below what
may be described as “cap-rock,”
and has thus been preserved from
the heavy degree of inspissation
which led to the loss of the
lighter fractions from the
material seeping into the well
above the cap.
It should be emphasised,
however, that, encouraging as
these “shows” may be, they do
not warrant some of the
highly optimistic expressions
of opinion broadcast over
the air, but curiously missing
from the official press reports;
and there was nothing in these
reports to justify—or even to
explain—the sevenfold rise in
Santos share-prices. It is very
questionable, to put it mildly, if
either the radio-blurb or the
’Change buying-rush could have
occurred in any country more
oil-wise than ours, and it is
surprising that they did occur
here after the Rough Range
hysteria at the end of 1953.
Although it is reported that
the oil below 775 ft. “is entering
the well more freely” than that
from the zone between 574 ft.
and 761 ft., there does not appear
to be the substantial flow which
one would expect normally from
a reservoir of “porous
recrystallised dolomite”; it
would seem, therefore, that the
rock in question, although
porous, does not possess the
necessary permeability for hopes
of commercial production— at
least, at the present stage.
Even the vague information
published to date with reference
to the Wilkatana oils indicates,
quite definitely, that not only
have they been subjected to
extensive migration through
restricted channels but that,
above 761 ft., the oil has suffered
substantial inspissation.
One of the main problems
facing Santos, Ltd., is, therefore,
the necessity for obtaining all
possible data with reference to
the direction (or directions) and
path (or paths), along which the
Wilkatana oil has travelled from
its source to its present position.
The requisite information will
be dependent not only on a
detailed knowledge of the
geological history of the region,
but will rest largely on specialised
chemical analyses of the crude,
wherever encountered ; in par-
ticular, quantitative data with
reference to those constituents
which are known —through
experience in oilfields harboring
measurable “pools” of long-
distance-migrated oil —to be
affected by filtration through
channels possessing certain
physical and chemical charac-
teristics.
There is such a striking
similarity between the Wilkatana
and Rough Range crudes that
the lessons learned in the latter-
named field should be considered
very seriously'before embarking
on any “developmental” pro-
gramme at Wilkatana. One con-
solation is that such exploratory
drilling as may be necessary will
be, in the first stages at least, at
comparatively shallow depths.
The Motor Trade
A USTRALIAN motor-distribu-
tors are unlikely to escape the
setback which is hitting the
motor-car industry all over
the world. A glut of cars
is reported from the United
States, and in Britain record
output has been followed
by a realisation that the market,
for the present at any rate, has
been oversupplied with cars. It
is unfortunate for U.K. manu-
facturers that Australian imports
have been restricted because of
shortage of overseas funds. But
in any case a peak in Australian
car-sales appears to have passed
fpr the time being. Credit is
tighter, and if the U.K. policy of
discouraging luxury purchases
is followed in Australia, we may
see higher sales-tax on motor-
cars and the like before this year
is out.
Minster, Ltd.
AAINSTER, LTD., owner of
- LTJ - all the shares in West-
minster Carpets, Ltd. (Dande-
nong, Vic.), has maintained its
interim div. at the rate of 15
p.c. p.a., at the same time con-
tinuing to pay out of profits
for the new plant, which will
double output. The new unit
should be in operation about
October this year. Demand for
Westminster rubber-based carpet
by the motor-trade is still un-
satisfied, and domestic require-
ments can’t be met on present
production.
Sydney Water Board
TJUBLIC response to the
A £900,000 cash-and-conversion
loan put out by the Sydney
Water Board was refreshing.
Total amount subscribed, includ-
ing 23 p.c. in conversions, was
£1,184,050. The oversubscrip-
tion must be returned.
The loan, which carried 4} p.c.
interest, was offered in five-year
and 10-year terms. In 85 p.c.
of cases the public sought the
five - year debentures. This
option was responsible for the
success of the loan—the first
oversubscription of a semi-
Governmental loan for a long
time,
I —— , ■
Bradford Cotton
TNTERIM div. from Bradford
A Cotton Mills has been main-
tained at 12i p.c. p.a. Main-
tenance of the rate in the textile-
industry’s present difficulties is
a tribute to the co.’s manage-
ment and its financial strength.
Containers, LtdJ
ACCORDING to the latest
survey of the Division of
Industrial Development, future
prospects for the can-making
industry are excellent. While a
good deal depends upon the
present fruit season, it is said, the
demand for containers for other
commodities is growing and pro-
viding a more stable basis for
profitable operations.
Already the biggest manufac-
turer in the business, Containers,
Ltd. (Melbourne), is to undertake
further expansion with the
proceeds of new ordinary capital
to be offered at par to share-
holders on the register at
February 14 at the rate of three
for ten ordinary shares and one
for five preference shares held.
The new issue, which will bring
in £1,034,275, and another
£500,0(K) to be raised by an issue
of 6} p.c. £1 prefs. to the public,
will also be used to repay money
borrowed on overdraft.
When it was incorporated in
1949, Containers drew together
under one ownership, by
exchange of shares involving
1,322,000 £1 ordinaries and pay-
ment of £54,000 cash, the opera-
tions of the Union Can Co. Pty.,
Ltd., and its subsidiaries (Aus-
tralian Can Co. Pty., Ltd., and
Kelso Trading Supply Co., Ltd.),
manufacturing, in addition to
cans, can-making machinery,
screw-caps and closures for jars
and bottles, etc.; Fibre Can Co.
Pty., Ltd., board and paper con-
tainers ; Southern Can Co. Pty.,
Ltd.; J. T. Picken and Sons
Pty., Ltd., label- and can-
printers ; Dominion Can Co.
Pty., Ltd.; and James Marsh and
Sons Pty., Ltd.
In 1953 the can-making busi-
ness of T. Dawson and Son Pty.,
Ltd., was bought at a cost of
133,333 £1 ords., and in the fol-
lowing year the co. took over the
paper-printing and cardboard-
box and -carton business of Paul
Bruce and Co. Pty., Ltd. The
(Continued on next page )


Courage not a
sometime thing
When he bailed out at 777 m.p.h.,
the air ripped his nose from his
lip; blood spurted from his ears;
his eyeballs bulged from their
sockets. February Reader’s Digest
tells in detail the awesome experi-
ence of pilot George Smith—first
man to bail out at supersonic speed
and Jive to tell about it.
Then read A. J. Cronin’s absorb-
ing article, “Unless you deny
yourself,” “Billy Graham s
strangest prayer,” “The Miracle of
your Muscles,” "This union gives
more to the boss”—a wealth of
stimulating articles in February
Reader’s Digest —only 2/- at all
newsagents and bookstalls. The
best reading of the month.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established. 1808 in Reign of.
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I i
m
--
Goor/ Reward
People lose money every day—in one month
there were 47 advertisements in one morn-
ing daily newspaper offering rewards for
the return of money lost in wallets, purses,
and hand-bags. The amounts lost varied
from "a large sum” and “five-pound notes” to
“four weeks’ holiday-pay”, and the rewards
offered ranged from “good” to “generous”.
The way to avoid losing “large sums”
of money is not to carry them, and you can
do this if you make a practice of paying by
cheque. A cheque account with the Bank
of New South Wales is simple, safe, and
convenient.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
★ Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST AND LARGEST TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5549C
activities of a number of these
subsidiaries have lately been
taken over by the parent and the
cos. wound up.
Substantial additions have
been made recently to buildings
and plant at Northcote, near
Melbourne, and at Kyabram, in
the Goulburn Valley. Much of
the new plant, the co. reports,
contributed to the year’s profits,
which rose £80,938 to £538,704.
Depreciation, not stated in 1954,
was £149,711 last term, and tax-
provision at £355,619 was
£58,515 higher. »
The big amount of bank-
money in the business at the end
of the year suggests that the
increased profit-rate may not
be maintained when the new
share-capital is introduced,
although the new assets were not
in full production over the whole
term. The return on average
ordinary capital employed, after
preference dividends, was 17 p.c.,
as against 14.3 p.c. in 1954, 6.9
p.c. 1953, 19.1 p.c. 1952 and
13.2 p.c. 1951. In accordance
with the policy of “financial
prudence” outlined by the chair-
man in his report in 1954, the
ord. dividend was advanced only
half a point, to 8 p.c., the busi-
ness retaining a little under half
total net earnings to strengthen
reserves and assist growth.
The only addition to capital
last term was through the acquisi-
tion of the £20,000 p.c. pref.
capital of the Union Can Co.,
whose shareholders were paid in
ordinary scrip, at face-value, on
a £-for-£ basis. Bulk of the
finance required for additions to
fixed assets (up £553,171 net),
extra stocks (up £1,291,333) and
debtors (up £289,366), came
£1,759,124 from the co.’s bankers,
£93,351 from creditors and
£262,871 from the trading
surplus:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref .. £760.000 £750.000
Ord' . .. 2,927,583 2,947,583
Reserves .. • • 685,563 948,434
Outside interests.. 29 <132 l®*® 29
Overdraft • • 240,795 1,999,919
Creditors .. .. 657,679 651,030
Tax provision .. 308,032 357,679
Final divs. .. 135,853 136,603
£5,634,637 £7,801,827
Land, buildings .. 1,075,642 1,369,604
Plant, machinery 1,206,214 1,465,423
Investments .. 4,399 27,501
Stocks . . .. 2,369,877 3,661,210
Debtors .. . • 800,350 1,089,716
Cash etc .. 19,376 34,194
Intangibles .. 168,779 154,179
£5,634,637 £7,801,827
The tighter working-capital posi-
tion will be easier with the new
share-capital.
Following news of the issue
the position of the ordinary
shares changed little on the share-
market. At 265. 3d. for the ords.,
the rights to the new shares had
a theoretical value of 4s. lOd.
After allowing for brokerage the
return, on a fully-paid basis,
would be 6.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
dividend.
Hendon Aimail
From Hcvhcvt Holman
IpHIS month is always depres-
sing. The worst of the
/inter is not yet over, the after-
lath of Christmas spending is a
hastening one, retail trade is
tad and, altogether, seasonal
luctuations are at their worst.
hangover month, in fact.
Moreover, the future is
mponderable, with the Govern-
nent allegedly under a cloud for
ndecision and the economic
jituation suffering from a racing
:>ulse.
The city, after a hope-laden
greeting to the New Year,
reacted sharply to the news of
short-time working at the Austin
motor-car factory and to a state-
ment from Standard Motors, on
rejecting a wage-claim outright,
that the industry was in for a
troublesome time. In two succes-
sive days, the “Financial Times”
industrial-ordinary share-index
fell eight and a half points.
In passing, it is questionable
whether the position is as bad
as it is made out to be, even
though the Australian import-
cuts have not yet had their full
effect. Austins are backed by a
cool £2O million in ready cash,
the British Motor Corporation
plans to produce 12,500 cars a
week by midsummer, and Rootes
are committed to an expansion
programme which extends to a
newly-acquired subsidiary that
has been losing money. A deep
purpose, not entifely consistent
with present fiscal policy, is even
being read into the slowing-down
in output: to influence the Gov-
ernment to soften the squeeze
and to reduce the purchase-tax
on cars.
But the city, of course, inter-
preted the action as evidence that
the credit-squeeze had begun to
work —as, indeed, it has, since
the buyer of a new car finds it
harder both to trade-in his old
one and to secure a bank-
overdraft. And now the words
“recession” and “unemployment”
have been brought out from the
shadows.
Inflation has had a merry romp
for 16 months. The remedial
measures began only a year ago
and have proved to be
inadequate. Will Mr. Macmillan
tighten them, even to the
imposition of controls and to
positive unemployment? And
how will organised labor react to
the latter? These are the vital
questions of the moment.
The Other Eden?
It is not —heaven knows! —a
characteristic of politicians to
keep their mouths shut. Nor of
statesmen, either. Churchill’s
war-time speeches inspired the
nation to unity and action and
were as potent weapons as any
other, real or psychological. And
Roosevelt, too, led his country
from a microphone at his fireside.
Why, then, in times of peace
do our leaders shy from forth-
right leadership? Even Churchill,
surprisingly, was notoriously
mistrustful of press-conferences
and other forms of public-
relations. And the leaders of
both main political parties cling
to the artificial 14-day rule (pre-
cluding discussion over the air of
a subject due for debate in Parlia-
mefit) as if it were part of the
Bill of Rights.
The best thing that can be
said about the recent newspaper
attack on Sir Anthony Eden, in
which the “Daily Telegraph” and
the “Daily Mirror” were Co-
belligerents, is that it should
never have been allowed to
happen. Criticism that is ground-
less is futile, but criticism that
contains a grain of truth can do
much harm especially if it affects
a reputation.
Eden has, it must be con-
ceded, lost prestige. Rumors
spread to the effect that he was
too sensitive, had difficulty in
making up his mind, was too
busy looking over the Foreign
Secretary’s shoulder to attend to
his responsibilities as a whole
and was in indifferent health.
These strictures, by their very
nature, have every semblance of
being idle and malicious gossip.
The Prime Minister’s well-
wishers, on the other hand, would
like nothing better than to be
shown, by straightforward, if
conventional, signs of leadership
that this is precisely what they
were.
Seven Years After
John Clements’s season of
classics at the Saville Theatre has
opened with Ibsen’s “The Wild
Duck”—an event of special
interest to this theatregoer
since the previous revival,
some 200 shows ago, was the
first play to be reviewed in
this “Airmail.” And it is still
clear in memory as a superb pro-
duction (by Michael Benthall)
with Anton Walbrook, Mai
Zetterling, Fay Compton, Robert
Harris and Miles Malleson in the
leading roles.
Such recollections lead
inevitably to comparison, always
an untrustworthy basis for
critical assessment and especially
when looking back over the
years. But, even after making
due allowance, Murray Mac-
donald’s production at the Saville
is disappointing in all aspects ;
it lacks depth, is unstudied,
dramatically undervalued and
apparently under-rehearsed.
The essential weakness of the
play is the tawdry theatricality of
the wretched, unseen captive
duck whose precise symbolism
remains ever an enigma and is,
mixing metaphors, a red-herring.
But, by undervaluing the duck
and slightly overvaluing the main
characters, the play becomes a
powerful drama, rich in psycho-
logical insight and with a com-
pelling moral. Ibsen’s ideas on
construction may now seem
“Will you still love me when my wire has turned to silver ?”
naively forthright, but his
characters are anything but
musty theatrical re-creations
(Hjalmar Ekdal, for example, was
probably a self-caricature).
Mr. Macdonald to have
sedulously avoided any implica-
tion of the obvious. Gregers
Werle (Michael Gough) is a
nervous blunderer, not a stuffy
prig with a real, if misguided,
sense of mission. Hjalmar
(Emlyn Williams) gives no
evidence of the self-pity which is
his true weakness. Even the dis-
solute Dr. Relling (Laurence
Hardy) is either stone-cold sober
or else his bloodstream is
impervious to alcohol. But
George Relph’s lightly-sketched
Old Ekdal —as tedious a bore as
his ridiculous pets —is a gain.
The best performance of the
evening is the sullen strpngth of
Angela Baddeley as Gina Ekdal;
but, again, was she such a
slattern? Did she not hold the
house together? Dorothy Tutin
mimics, rather than acts, the
underdeveloped Hedvig, but with
excellent effect.
The Four Sisters
“A Girl Called Jo” (Piccadilly
Theatre) is another British
musical. Better than most in its
conception and preparation, it is
an adaptation of “Little Women
and “Good Wives” by three
revue-writers and two composers.
No shoestring affair, there are
chorus, corps-de-ballet and a
band in the pit. To pep things
up further, the music is decidedly
jazzy and the lyrics are
sophisticated. Nevertheless, the
authors introduce some genuine
sentiment and, most bravely,
Beth’s death. . .
Except in the effective closing
scenes the subtleties of Denis
Carey’s stagecraft are lost, largely
because everybody is so obvi-
ously trying to be full of vitality.
Joan Heal makes an endearing
Jo, transparent, irrepressible and
unaffected. Otherwise, the sing-
ing is better than the acting.
A good try—not a world-
beater, but encouraging.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN O. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WABKEN D. MCDONALD.
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McFAKLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Australia & New Zealand Bank, Ltd.
■pOCAL points of interest in the field
of banking at the moment are: (1)
the credit squeeze, (2) establishment of
new savings-banks by two of the big
private trading-banks, and (3) need to
divorce the Commonwealth Trading
Bank from control of the central bank.
The A.N.Z. —the four-year-old amal-
gamation of the ’Asia and Union banks
—and its larger and older competitor,
the ’Wales, both opened savings-banks,
operated by wholly-owned subsidiaries,
on January 19 last. This is a welcome
move away from a virtual Government
monopoly toward more flexible private
enterprise, and will help to broaden
banking services and facilities offered to
the public, as well as add to the status of
the parent cos., and, of course, finally
contribute to their net earnings.
Operating from -* the widespread
branch-premises of the parent cos., the
new savings-banks have got away to a
flying start. The licence-to-trade granted
by the Treasury provides, among other
things, that 70 p.c. of depositors’ money
is to be held in cash, deposits with the
central bank, and Government and
semi-Government-body securities, the
aim being to protect both depositors
and the gilt-edged market. Customers
are to receive the same rates of interest
on their deposits as are paid by the well-
entrenched Commonwealth Savings
Bank—now 2± p.c. up to £5OO, 1£ p.c.
from £5Ol to £l5OO, but nothing on
amounts in excess of the higher figure.
In December, 1953, the general bank-
ing division of the Commonwealth Bank
was transferred to a new corporate
body, the Commonwealth Trading Bank ;
but control, both as to policy and adminis-
tration, remained with the board and the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank,
or central bank. The Government trad-
ing-bank is a keen competitor of the
private trading-banks, whereas the central
bank is a bankers’ bank, or bank of last
resort. Moreover, central-bank policy
is not always consistent with the policy
of the trading-banks, which is to some
extent dictated by different circum-
stances. So, like Janus, the directors
and governor of the central bank face
both ways.
This is not consistent with untram-
melled leadership, nor is it conducive to
the co-operation which ought to exist
throughout the entire banking-system.
Hence the Government is again being
urged by the private trading-banks and
others to cancel the deed of separation
and completely divorce the Common-
wealth Trading Bank from the central
institution.
As yet the Government has not
established mastery in the conflict be-
tween the powerful forces tending to
raise the level of internal demand and
the credit and other restrictions imposed
in order to damp down that demand.
This much is evident from the fact that
our overseas balances continue to fall
and that wages and prices continue to
rise. Still, interest-rates have tended
to stiffen, prices for Stock Exchange
securities have eased, and there
are signs that traders’ accumulated
liquid resources are diminishing. Since
these resources, together with funds
raised on the open market, have been
used to finance industrial investment,
the credit-squeeze was bound to work
slowly. If —a big if—wage-rates and
prices can be rapidly stabilised, monetary
controls would achieve their objective
more quickly and effectively.
During the year to September 30 last
the cross-currents at work are reflected
in the A.N.Z.’s balance-sheet figures by
an expansion of £18,700,507 in advances
and growth of only £864,098 in
deposits:
1953. 1954. 1955.
.j £ A £A £A
Paid capital ... 10,667,500 12,801,000 12,801,000
Reserves . . 8,642,089 9,446,544 9,619,285
Deposits, etc.* 335,850,339 347,824,407 348,688,505
Due other banks 6,452,345 9,265,122 14,063,673
Final div. .. 352,028 422,433 588,846
.361,964,301 379,759,606 385,761,309
Liquids .. 138,725,715 133,588,141 126,456,737
Special account 44,883,000 47,083,000 39,683,000
Advances, etc. 174,291,155 193,778,597 212,479,104
Premises, etc... 4,064,431 5,314,768 7,142,468
„ _ _ _ 361,964,301 379,759,506 385,761,309
Includes provision for taxation and contingencies
reserves.
To meet the extra advances, carry an
additional £10,145,744 of bills-receivable,
etc., and spend £1,827,700 more than
was written off on premises, etc., the co.
drew upon cash and money at short-
call for £7,137,233, reduced its holdings
of Treasury bills by £1,998,795 and
Government securities by £4,063,720.
Also the central bank released £7,400,000
of the amount held by it on special
account.
Obviously the co. has done its utmost
to assist credit-worthy borrowers in an
expanding field «f activity, and its posi-
tion as a banker remains very strong.
Still, the depletion of liquids will retard
the growth of advances, which will
become more difficult to obtain to finance
increases in stocks and work-in-progress,
»or expansion of capacity. Financial and
personal borrowers will fare worst.
The bigger volume of advances helped
to swell earnings, while office-mechanisa-
tion helped to cushion the effects of
rising costs, mainly wage-rates. Declared
net earnings increased by £137,350:
_ , _ To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. , Dividendsf —•> serves. serves.
£A £A £A £ a
1951 . .72:1,429 10 p.c. = 572,770 148,659 8,337,372
1952. . 701,608 10 „ ~560,043 141,665 8,478,937
1953. . 749,865 10 „ ~586,713 163,152 8,642,089
Share premiums, £589,850 .. .. 9,231,939
1954.. 918,660 10 p.c. = 704,055 214,605 9,446,544
1955.1,056,010 12 „ ~883,269 172,741 9,619,285
f Percentage rate of div. is the gross sterling rate,
but the amount is shown after deducting U.K.
income tax, now Bs. 6d. in £l.
The £1,056,010 of profit claimed was
8.2 p.c. on capital as against 7.1 p.c. for
the previous term. The lift in the div.
from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c. sterling, subject
to U.K. income tax of Bs. 6d. in the £,
can be taken as an indication of the
board’s confidence in the future.
The £2 A shares paid to £1 each (the
other £ is a reserve liability) at 355. 6d.
and the f.-p. £1 B shares at 48s. 6d. return
3.8 p.c. and 3.6 p.c. respectively on the
basis of last term’s distribution, after
allowing for U.K. tax and exchange.
Hopes are that those on the register
might soon be asked to assist on
favorable terms.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
JCOR the co.’s remarkable success in
the war at the petrol-pump share-
holders can thank a dynamic manage-
ment, which also induced California
Texas Corp. (U.S.) to join in, and bear
most of the cost of, a vigorous hunt for
oil in Westralia. The scrip thus has a
speculative as well as an established and
expanding trade-interest. The specula-
tive element is a 14 p.c. share-interest,
through Ampol Exploration, Ltd., in
Wapet, the oil-prospecting concern in
which California Texas holds 80 p.c. of
the capital and the Exploration co. the
balance. The activities of Wapet have
been fully discussed from time to time
elsewhere in The Bulletin.
Ampol Petroleum’s main field of
activity and earnings is the importing
and merchandising of petroleum anc
petroleum products throughout all State
of the Commonwealth. Competitio
takes the form not of price-cutting bu
of setting-up and operating and/or leas
ing an extensive network of service
stations, thus widening and anchorin
turnover, which has been stimulated alsc
by the growing number of motor an
other petrol- and oil-fuelled vehicles i
use.
It was to help finance this anc
other work, including erection o:
new seaboard terminals and othe
storage-tanks, additions to the deliver
fleet and sundry equipment, and purchas
of an 18,000-ton tanker, etc., that 350,00
new £l6 p.c. prefs. were issued at pa
and 2,800,000 new ss. ords. were pu
out at a stiff premium of 10s. (200 p.c/
each in January, 1954. The premium
made a 12} p.c. div. worth only 4.1 p.c
on the shares concerned. Then, ten
months later, ord.-holders were given
prior rights of application for £1,500,00C
of 10-year 6 p.c. unsecured registerec
notes. Each £1 of notes carried an
option to take up one new ss. ord. at 15s
during the two years from December 1
1959.
Whatever the board had in mind in
charging the 200 p.c. premium, it has
nearly a year later, taken part of the
sting out of the charge. On September
17, 1955, option-holders were given the
right to convert their options immedi-
ately into ss. ords. at 15s. each, payable
in cash, and 881,512 shares were thus
issued, bringing in £220,378 of capita
and £440,756 of share-premiums. On
October 1 those on the ord. register
received a one-for-four issue of bonus-
shares (£745,244), which was charged
against the share-premium reserve, etc.
Then, on December 17, ord.-holders
were offered 4,972,842 new ss. ords., one-
for-three, this time at par.
Those who took up, say, 400 shares
of the January, 1954, issue and
exercised their rights to the subsequent
bonus- and par-issues would now hold
666 ss. ords. at a total cost of £341.5,
an average of 10s. 3d. per share. The
yield at 10s. 3d. would be 6 p.c. on a
12} p.c. div. basis. And at the current
market price of 13s. 2d. for the f.-p.
ords. they could see a capital-gain of
2s. lid. per share.
Since the close of accounts at Septem-
ber 30 last, reserves have benefited by
£440,756 of share-premiums, and, includ-
ing 76,640 ords. sold to dealers, issued
capital has increased by £2,227,992
(£1,482,748 of it cash), raising the figure
to £5,972,842, of which £1,000,000 carries
a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. On that lot the
pref. div. and 12} p.c. to the ords. would
call for £95,657 more profit than was
claimed last term. Still, provided the
new money earns at approximately the
same rate as the old—last term’s profit
was 9.4 p.c. on shareholders’ net tangible
funds —the 12} p.c. div. is in no
immediate danger.
The year’s turnover (£15,229,717) shot
up by £2,781,927, or 22.3 Gallon-
age sales increased by 25 p.c. The leap
in net earnings was £257,310:
Ampol & Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1952 .. 304,286 6 10 195,629 1,127,764
Issue exes., etc., written off,
£53,000 1,074,764
1953 .. 366,930 6 10 128,801 1,203,565
Surplus on charter claims, £127,279 1,330,844
Share premiums, £1,400,000 .. 2,730,844
1954 .. 328,638 6 346,177 2,713,305
Note issue exes, w/off, £37,500 .. 2,675,805
Goodwill written-off, £23,700 .. 2,652,105
1955 .. 585,948 6 12$ 405,512 2,832,541
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,812,541
* Subject to intangibles, £331,927.
The record £585,948 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£60,000)
and show 19 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 11.7, 16.6, 16.7 and 17.7 p.c.
back to 1951. The £2,812,541 of reserves
is subject to £331,927 of intangibles.
The year’s growth of £3,842,853 in
total assets was financed mainly by the
addition of £2,256,348 to the amount
coming to creditors (including the bank
and the co.’s American friends) and the
issue of £1,500,000 of notes already
referred to: 3
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954 lost;
Paul capital .. £2,672,273 £3,735,600 £3,744 850
Reserves.. .. 1,203,565 2,713,305 2!si2 541
Notes term ,oan " 309 - 000 392,304 392,304
Creditors*’ i.' 2,7577381 2,3967561 JXIjS
Tax-provisipn .. 299,000 326,000 298 000
Final divs. .. 109,777 166,731 172 750
A
£7,350,996 £9,729,501 £13,572,354
Freeholds, etc.f.. 1,208,375 2,608,384 )
Plant, etc. . . 2,833,705 3,845,922 f 8.51^,037
Shares Ampol Ex- }
ploration .. 81,510 135,779 860,478
Stocks . 1,489,621 1,298,429 1,690,532
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,416,616 1,509,574 2,175 380
Intangibles . . 321,169 331,413 33R927
, T . , , £7,350,996 £9,729,501 £13,572,354
Includes overdraft, staff fund, etc. f Includes
storage terminals.
The increase of £2,059,731 in fixed assets
was largely on of new service-
stations and ancillary equipment, which
augurs well for future sales. The growth
in stocks (up £392,103) and book-debts
(up £665,806) is the corollary of bigger
trading. The worth of shares in Ampol
Exploration (up £724,699) will ultimately
depend upon Wapet’s success in the hunt
for oil. The new capital should ease
the ratio of outside debt to shareholders’
funds, which was nearly £ for £ when
the books closed.
At 13s. 2d. the f.-p. ss. ords. return
4.7 p.c. on a 12± p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the ls.-paid contribs. at 7s. 8d
would return 5.3 p.c. when fully paid!
The prefs. at 17s. yield 7 p.c. The options
are fetching around 2s. 9d., reflecting a
purely speculative interest. On issued
capital as it now stands, net tangible
cover is £8 17s. lid. prefs. and 7s. lOd.
ords.
G. & R. Wills (Holdings), Ltd.
J3UBLIC interest in the scrip of this
A more - than - century - old Adelaide -
controlled undertaking—its foundations
were laid by George and Richard Wills
in 1849—dates from 1946, when the scrip
was listed. Since then the business has
expanded rapidly, and shareholders have
gathered a run of rich harvests, which
more than compensated for the buffeting
received during the 1930’s slump, when
a substantial part of the share-capital
was jettisoned.
For the 10 years to July 19 last ord.
divs. averaged 21 p.c., sweetened with
three lots of bonus-scrip—one-for-one in
1948, one-for-two in 1950 and one-for-six
in 1954. And at the close of last accounts
the £650,000 of capital, of which £150,000
carried a cumulative 5| p.c., was
entrenched behind £1,080,627 of reserves,
over one-third of which had been
accumulated during the last five years.
In December last G. and R. Wills
(Holdings), Ltd., was formed to acquire,
by an exchange of scrip, all the issued
capital in G. and R. Wills and Co., Ltd.,
which also owns all the issued scrip in
George Wills and Co., shipping agents.
Those on the trading co.’s register received
one new £l6 p.c. pref. for each £1 5| p.c.
pref. held, and three new f.-p. ss. ords.
for each two ss. ords. handed over. This
was equivalent to a further bonus-issue
of one-for-two. The holding co. then
offered those on its own ord. register
1,000,000 new ss. ords. at par, one-for-
three, payable in full by February 3,
1956. It will thus have a paid capital
of £1,150,000 in 150,000 £l6 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 4,000,000 ss. ords.
The operating co. and its wholly-owned
subsidiary are engaged in a wide range of
activities. These include manufacture of
shirts, pyjamas, underwear, etc., from a
well-equipped factory at Adelaide; the
Australian agency for the Bombay
Dyeing and Manufacturing Co., one of
the largest cotton-spinners and -weavers
in the world; shipping and other agency


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 5445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COHPANI LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Analytical Chemist
'Required For
RUM JUNGLE CONTROL
LABORATORY
A vacancy exists for an analytical chemist
(male or female) in our modern, air-
conditioned, instrumented control labora-
tory, handling the analyses ol uranium
concentrate and allied products.
Minimum qualification, admitting to
Associateship of the Royal _ Australian
Chemical Institute (or equivalent), is
essential, together with a sound knowledge
of inorganic analytical chemistry.
Single accommodation is available at a
nominal charge. Housing for a married
man would also be available, but not
necessarily at the time of appointment.
Commencing salary will be according to
qualifications and experience but will be
not less than £1,250 p.a. Four weeks
annual leave, with paid return air-fares
to any mainland Capital. Liberal Provi-
dent Fund and other benefits are operative.
Applications close March 10th, 1956, and
all enquiries should be addressed to—
THE MANAGER,
TERRITORY ENTERPRISES PTY
ETD., RUM JUNGLE, NORTHERN
territory
VACANT POSSESSION
CITY OF BRISBANE
Under instructions from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
On behalf of the TRUSTEES.
FREEHOLD PROPERTY WITH FRONTAGES
to QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS—
THE TWO MAIN STREETS OF BRISBANE.
Situated in the Very Heart of Brisbane’s Commercial Centre
33ft. frontage to Both Streets —full depth of 297 ft.
Solid Brick Building of Basement, Ground and First Floors.
Ideal for an Arcade, Showrooms, Commercial Offices, etc.
A Rare Opportunity to Obtain a City Property with
Vacant Possession.
TO BE AUCTIONED THURSDAY, 23rd FEB.,
at 11 a.m. in our AUCTION ROOM.
Brochure and full details available from: —
SHARP & MUSGRAVE PTY., LTD.,
Auctioneers, 329 Queen St., Brisbane. ’Phone FA 1571.
Faith in Hie
i
In the next three years at least 12 nations will
be sending expeditions to the Antarctic in a
combined effort to see what the Great White
Continent holds.
This attempt to discover secrets screened by
a barrier of ice on the last frontiers of the earth
is one of the most dramatic stories of our time.
When I was in America recently I found
excited interest in the possibility of Antarctica s
yielding atomic ores and other minerals for the
“wonder age.”
What exactly it has in material is still largely
in the realm of supposition, but we know for a
certainty that Antarctica has much to offer m the
deeper study of physics, and that an extension of
science is to be one of the prizes.
Meteorological recordings are to be taken
simultaneously for the first time from bases ringed,
round the frozen continent —bases that will give
mankind a better idea of what governs the weather.
Australia is contributing its share to this truly
international effort. And right now New Zealand
is organising the equipment of a £lOO,OOO
expedition of about 30 men under Sir Edmund
Hillary.
Hillary’s job this year will be to prepare a
track across Antarctic peaks so that bases may be
laid along 2000 miles of snowy waste for a British
team that will attempt to cross the frozen continent
by way of the South Pole in 1956-57.
It falls, then, to us in our own time to see the
drama of these daring penetrations; to witness a
drive for answering a riddle of the centuries.
Helped as it will be by aircraft and other
devices of modem communication, it will still call
for the Faith and Courage that characterised each
of the earlier heroes of the Polar snows.
And it will be done in a region neighbour to
)ur own continent —perhaps shaping in a way as
fet hidden from us the rich future of Australia
tself.
7
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Interests, principally connected
with cement, fertilisers,
hemicals, timber, builders’ hard-
ware and softgoods. Another
ontributor to net earnings is an
nvestment portfolio (book-value
■592,717), which includes share-
loldings in Valley Worsted
Mills; Colton, Palmer and
Heston ; S.A. Portland Cement,
rimbrol; Courtaulds; and
Lustre Hosiery.
Last term all the co.’s interests
:ontributed more to the pool.
(\fter sending £25,000 to the
stock reserve (raising it to
£125,000) and making unspecified
provisions for depreciation and
taxation, there was a spring or
£29,223 in declared net earnings:
G. & R. Wills and Subsidiary.
—Dividends \ R e '
Jly. Profit. Pref. < Ord. N serves.
19, 5$ p.c.
£ £ £ £
’53..126,872 8080 171= 76,002 923.867
To staff fund, £7600 .. 916,367
To stock reserve, £25,000 .. 941,367
Res. capitalised, £71,417.. 869,950
*54..186,500 8080 20= 85,716 961,654
To staff fund, £8465 .. 953,189
Assets revalued, £2956 .. 356,146
Profit sale assets, £.2295 .. 958,440
To stock reserve, £25,000 .. 983,440
*55..214,723 8250 20 = 100,000 1,089,913
To staff fund, £9286 .. 1.080,627
Of the £214,723 of profit
claimed, £142,505 (up £9432)
came from trading £nd £72,218
(up £19,791) from' investments.
The £214,723 was enough to pay
the new holding co.’s pref. div.
(£9000) and show 20.5 p.c. on its
£1,000,000 of ord. capital, on
which the board says it hopes to
pay a 13i p.c. div. There - will,
of course, be an extra £250,000
of cash-paid capital at work to
help offset the effects of import-
restrictions, etc., especially upon
the Bombay co.’s agency.
Expansion is the keynote of
combined balance-sheet figures
of the operating co. and its
subsidiary:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
£ £ £
Pa pref CaPl^ al 146,900 150, 000 150,000
Ord .. 428,583 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. 916,368 953,190 1,080,628
Mortgage . 150,000 150,000 393,500
Overdraft . 304,778 361,756 165,398
C ' r etc torS ’ 1,269,770 1,667,420 2,077,738
Staff' fund 59,579 66,542 71,880
T Vision .. 29,600 127,429 136,235
Final divs. 46,898 46,898 64,125
8.352.476 4,023,235 4,629,504
Land> build- g64>475 451>130 466(592
Plant, etc. 129,301 203,291 223,763
Shares .. 553,237 565,162 692,717
Stock .. 1,101,879 1,491,778 1,678,175
Debtors . 1 212.296 1,330,913 1.667.440
oas h .. 1,288 961 1.017
3.852.476 4,023,235 4,629,504
To carry an extra £336,527 of
book-debts, add £186,397 to
stocks and £55,734 net to fixed
assets, as well as clip £196,358
off the overdraft, the co. raised a
further £243,500 on mortgage
and increased the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., by
£401,318. The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,039,573) was £70,805. Still,
when the books closed there was
30s. 6d. belonging to mortgagees,
the bank and sundry creditors,
etc., in the business for every £
of shareholders’ funds.
As an investment the scrip has
naturally lost some of its former
lustre, though, subject to the
unexpected, it has possibilities
as a holding proposition. The
position will look more attractive
when the volume of the outside
debt can be reduced. At 11s. 3d.
the f.-p. ss. ords. would return
6 p.c. on a 13jr p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. recently sold at par,
and the rights to the new ords.
at 6s. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is £l4 17s. sd.
prefs. and 10s. sd. ords.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
Technically the co. is putting
up a very encouraging perform-
ance, and is winning satisfactory
profits, too. It is now capable,
however, of turning out a much
bigger tonnage of pyritic con-
centrates at cheaper prices, with
consequent benefits right down
the line to the consumer of
superphosphate, the chairman
says. He sums up the position
thus:
Although legislation granting the
bounty to manufacturers of sulphuric-
acid using pyrite was effective
throughout the year.,. .this co. has
not been called on to increase ton-
nages of pyrite in Westralia. Our
mine and treatment-plant are now
so well equipped that even a rela-
tively small increase in production
would make possible a substantial
reduction in our selling-prices, while
the large-scale production of which
we are capable would enable prices
to be reduced to the point where
they would be highly competitive with
imported brimstone, thereby effect-
ing an overall reduction in the price
of superphosphate and assisting in the
preservation of overseas balances.
The difficulty is that acid-
manufacturers have not yet com-
pleted plant-adjustments to cope
with the increased supply of
pyritic concentrates.
A new haulage-shaft (down
1033 ft.) on the Iron £ing lease,
blasthole stoping, installation of
a 42in. x 30in. jaw-crusher in the
station below No. 8 level, and
completion of the heavy-media
separation-plant at the surface
in June last have increased ore-
extraction capacity and cheap-
ened treatment.
For the year to October 31
last, however, the mill treated
92,128 tons (down 12,568 tons)
ore containing 21,983 tons
(down 3016 tons) sulphur, which
realised an average of £18.25
per ton as against £19.5 for the
previous term:
Total
Year. Sulphur
Oct. Content, Average
31, Tons. Proceeds. Per Ton.
1952 .. 22,310. £506,876 £22.71
1953 .. 25,569 624;852 24.44
1954 .. 24,999 487,430 19.50
1955 .. 21,983 401,328 18.25
Total working-costs at 565. 3d.
per-ton ore were 6s. 3d. lighter,
an increase of 2s. Bd. in ore-
treatment (235. lid. per ton)
being more than offset by a
reduction of 9s. in the cost of
ore-extraction (275. 6d. per ton).
Now that the heavy-media plant
is in full swing, a reduction in
treatment-costs is expected
during the current term.
Lower working - costs and
reduced expenditure on develop-
ment (£21,361, down £40,295)
were responsible for the im-
provement of £2722 in net earn-
ings ; allowances for deprecia-
tion (£47,153, up £18,608), taxa-
tion (£20,000, up £4000) were
higher:
Year.
Oct. P.c. on
31, Profit. Capital. Dividend.
1952.. £50,813 27.1 20 p.c. = £37,500
1953.. 62,049 33.1 20 „ = 37,500
1954.. 47,098 25.1 20 „ = 37.600
1955.. 49,820 26.5 20 „ = 87,500
The div. was kept at 20 p.c., of
which 6.6 p.c. was tax-free. It
is mainly to bigger output of
pyrites, which in turn depends
upon demand from acid-manu-
facturers, that shareholders have
to look for any substantial
increase in net earnings and lift
in the div.
There is plenty of pyritic ore
available; reserves at October
31, 1955, totalled 3,835,000 tons,
of which 2,167,000 tons was
positive and the balance prob-
able. The lot is estimated to
average not less than 25 p.c.
sulphur. Exploration-work on
the co.’s near-by goldmine, the
Norseman, has been temporarily
suspended without disclosing
anything of importance. Pro-
duction at the Norseman ceased
in 1947, when the grade fell to
2.6dwt. per ton.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £118,145, of
which £58,635 was stores, and
outside liabilities amounted to
£82,700, of which £24,824 was
mortgages and £17,839 tax-pro-
vision. The co.’s holding of
200,000 f.-p. 10s. shares in
Western Uranium Mines, N.L.,
has not been given any value in
the books. .
There is £187,500 of capital to
feed in f.-p. ss. shares, which
the market prices at 11s. 6d. as
against 13s. 3d. a year ago.
Commonwealth Mining and
Investments (Aust.), Ltd., the
mining-investment and finance
co. which left the stocks in
Sydney in May last with an
issued capital of £1,000,000 in
10s. shares, asked those on the
register at January 31 for a
further 2s. 6d., making the shares
paid to 7s. 6d. each—the remain-
ing 2s. 6d. is due late in April.
Chairman J. Kruttschnitt says
that during the co.’s first six
months of operations it invested
about 75 p.c. of available funds
in mining ventures —60 p.c. in
well-established and dividend-
paying concerns and 15 p.c. in
projects which are expected to
show attractive returns in a year
or two. Most of the balance of
available funds was temporarily
employed in secured interest-
bearing advances. The co. also
holds options to purchase
equities in several properties
(unnamed) still in the prospect-
ing and development stages. If
any of these options are exer-
cised, and a new co. formed to
work the property, shareholders
will be given an opportunity to
get in on the ground-floor.


Women's Letter
MELBOURNE
Australia Day celebrations included
the Hoisting of the Flag by Lady Dixon
at the English-Speaking clubrooms in
South Yarra. After afternoon-tea had
been served, Australia Day Council
president Sir Norman Martin gave a
short address, and'E.-S.U. president Sir
Owen Dixon presented cheques to the
winners of the E.-S.U. scholarships,
Miss Anne Bermingham (she is a chemist,
and will go abroad in August) and Mr.
Trevor Hubble. Attenders of these
ceremonies included Sir Charles and Lady
Lowe, Lady Scott, Mrs. Gerald Bacon
(an American, and foundation-member
of the E.-S.U.), Mrs. W. J. Wark
(daughter of Sir Charles and Lady Lowe),
Mrs. W. E. M. Campbell, Mrs. William
Banks and Mrs. Stanley Haywood.
☆ ☆ *
Dame Sybil Thorndike’s cabin in the
Southern Cross was the scene of a gay
party on sailing-eve. A host of well-
wishers were there to bid au revoir to
that great lady of the theatre and her
equally famous husband, Sir Lewis
Casson, and to bring farewell-gifts and
fill the cabin with glorious floral tributes.
The two leave behind memories of
superb acting, great charm and friendli
ness.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Vice-Chancellor of the University
of Melbourne, Professor G. W. Paton,
and Mrs. Paton have announced the
engagement of their eldest daughter
Jeannine to Dr. Kingsley Mills, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Mills, of Elstern-
wick. Educated at the Presbyterian
Ladies College, Jeannine decided this
year to break her medical course at the
Uni. to complete a science degree:- Dr.
Mills is doing post-graduate work at the
University’s Pathology school. Jean-
nine’s ring is a solitaire diamond with
diamond shoulders. A small dinner-
party was held at the Vice-Chancellor’s
residence in the University grounds to
celebrate the engagement.
☆ ☆ *
Mr. and Mrs. Gebrge Laurens were
host and hostess at a dance given in their
Toorak home for more than 100 guests.
Guests-of-honor were Marilyn Berko-
witz and her fiance, Louis Hyams (due
to be married at Temple Beth Israel,
January 31), and Marilyn’s cousin,
Lionel Berkowitz, and his > fiancee,
Evelyn Goddard (to be married at the
same Temple ort February 14). The
hostess wore a short dinner-frock of
dove-grey and black brocade. Assisting
her mother was Diana, who topped a
finely - pleated pastel - blue silk - taffeta
skirt with a white guipure-lace sleeveless
blouse. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Bill White, Mrs. and Mrs. Leon
Korman, Mr. and Mrs. John Dight,
and Bettina Berkowitz.
# # #
When U.S. Vice-Consul Charles T.
York was working in the U.S. Consulate
in Trieste he met Ida Kopacin, who also
worked in the same office. When he was
appointed to the Melbourne 7 Consulate
Ida came, too. They were married last
week in St. Patrick’s Cathedral. The
bride, who is the daughter of Signor and
Signora Rudolf Kopacin, of Trieste, wore
a wedding-gown (made by her mother) of
white satin, lace and tulle ; her tulle veil
was held by a little cap trimmed with
orange-blossoms. She was given away
by U.S. Consul Givon Parsons, and was
attended by Mrs. Robert Brumstead,
whose husband, Lieut. Brumstead, U.S.
Naval Attache, was best man. After the
ceremony a few friends were entertained
at the American Consular residence in
South Yarra.
☆ ☆ ☆
A number of prize-winning frocks
and gowns in the recent Australian Wool
Bureau fashion-awards were shown at
the Hotel Australia. One eye-catching
frock, made by Ecstasy Creations in
black wool, was suitable for afternoon
wear; it followed the tunic-line, with a
deep fold finishing a simulated overdress
just above the level of the knees. Hartnell
and Gala Gowns, of this city, showed
wool afternoon-frocks which featured
the Empire, figure-hugging line, with
pleating giving movement at the knees.
Charlotte sth Avenue Gowns showed
two very lovely designs. One, of white
jersey for evening wear, had narrow
straps of diamente holding the swathed
bodice, which was also crossed with
diagonal lines of diamente. From a
gathered waistline the skirt fell in grace-
ful lines to floor-length. The other model
was a sleeveless cocktail-frock in black
wool-crepe; the bodice had draped
shoulder-pieces outlining a deep back
and front V, the skirt was very full and
flared.
John Hilton, of Sydney, showed a
striking cocktail-frock which had a fine
silver-mesh appearance, but which was
simply black jersey overlaid with tinsel
thread. Cut on slim lines, it had push-up
sleeves and a figure-fitting skirt which
broke away into flares at the knee-line.
From the Sydney firm of Millersons came
a very slim, beltless frock of,monotone-
tweed worn with one of the new, straight
hip-length jackets.
In 1948 Lola Russell went to London,
spent two years with the Weller Douglas
School of Dramatic Art, then joined the
Royal Players in Wales and did a season
in Barmouth. After repertory with the
Manchester Players she appeared in two
commercial films. Now, after a holiday-
tour through Yugoslavia and Greece,
Lola is back home intent on doing
theatre- and radio-work. Photo Repco
Co. (London).
Although it was a cold night there
were 6000 spectators at the Kooyong
tennis-stadium for the opening night of
the “Water Follies.” Among those who
enjoyed the show were Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Tait, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Nicholls,
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Buxton, Mrs. Leo
Guest and her daughter Jan 7 and Mrs.
Charles Davidson and her son Rodney.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were two very pleasing features
about the late-aftemoon party given by
U.S. Consul Joseph Wiedenmayer and
his wife at their Toorak home—it was
given in honor of Daryl Lindsay, who
recently retired from the position of
director of the Art Gallery, and it was
on Australia Day. Mr. Wiedenmayer,
himself a talented artist, has become
a firm friend of the guest-of-honor.
The hostess wore a slimly-cut frock of
black - and - jade - green - patterned silk.
From one hip floated a black tulle panel
which was appliqued with the jade-
pattern of the frock. Mrs. Lindsay’s
white nylon frock was shadow-printed
in Wattle, leaves of Australian trees i.and
tiny Australian animals.
At the party was Eric Westbrook, the
new director of the Art Gallery, and
his wife. She chose an H-line frock of
deep x -sapphire-blue corded-faille and a
tiny black pillbox hat. Also there were
Sir Owen and Lady Dixon, Minister for
External Affairs R. G. Casey and Mrs.
Casey, Sir John Latham, Major and Mrs.
L. Donnelly (he is U.S. Air Force
Attache), U.S. Consul Givon Parsons and
Mrs. Parsons, the Marchesa Serafini,
French Consul M. le Bas de Plumetot and
his wife, Mrs. Angus Jones, Dr. and
Mrs. Arthur Joyce, Mr. and Mrs. D. W.
Dwyer, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Robinson,
Prof. J. Burke, artist Arnold Shore and
Mrs. Shore, and Mr. and Mrs. R. Gove.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Ella Murdoch, aunt of Mary
Murdoch, the talented English oboist who
arrived recently on the Iberia, was hostess
at a party given for Mary. This was at
the Camberwell home of Dr. H. V. Mat-
tingley. Mary, who is the daughter of
the late William Murdoch, the well-
known concert-pianist, is here under a
three-months’ engagement with the A.B.C.
as first-oboist in the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. Mary spent three years at the
Royal Academy of Music and later joined
the Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra as
first-oboist. Of late she has been free-
lancing with London orchestras and has
appeared several times on TV. At the
party she met for the first time many of
her Australian relatives.
SYDNEY
During last week Australia Day came
and went unremarked by most people.
A dinner was given by the Premier at
the Wentworth Hotel, there was a party
at the Women Pioneers’ Club, special
church-services were held (at St. James’
Dr. George Mackaness spoke on “As It
Was in the Beginning”), but for the
majority of people it might just as well
have been “the day before the races out
at Tangmalangaloo.” We Australians do
not seem to have much gift for celebra-
tions, perhaps because we do not gener-
ally like “making a fuss.” In any case,
the best way to celebrate Australia Day
is to keep our country’s good in mind,
and to show our appreciation by being
good citizens every day of the year.
V V V
Bridesmaids’ dresses of nylon-net in
burnt-orange, cerise and cyclamen-pink
struck a very unusual color-note at the
wedding of Dierdre Hall-Best, only
daughter of Sir John and Lady Hall-Best,
to Dr. Peter Broughton, elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Broughton, of Darling
Point. Matron-of-honor was Mrs. Gor-
don Singfe, and the bridesmaids were
Ruth Harvey and Antonia Blaxland,
each of whom carried posies of carna-
tions to match her dress. A second
unusual note were the garlands of carna-
tions and camellia-leaves which linked
the bride’s attendants together. The
dresses and general color-scheme were
designed by Mrs. Gregory Blaxland.
The marriage took place at All Saints’
Church, Woollahra, and the reception
was held at the bride’s home. Attending
the bridegroom were Dr. Bill Sweetapple,
Mr. Ross Barnett and Dr. Bruce Storey.
This is charming, English-complexioned
Ann Condon, who recently announced
her engagement to Lieutenant John
Walter, D.S.C., of the Royal Marines; :
she is the only daughter of the (
David Condons, of Balgowlah, who last
year came to Australia from Ceylon in
the U.K. Information Service. Since
she arrived Ann has become assistant-
secretary of the Overseas League. John
is descended from the same family as that <
other John Walter who founded “The 5
Times.” Norton-Trevaire photo. s
Mrs. Mary Quick, whose beautifully
hand-printed book Green Crowns was
reviewed very favorably on the “Red
Page” (28/12/’55), paid The Bulletin
a visit from her home in Burr ad oo
(N.S.W.), and made some very enlighten-
ing remarks about printing as a craft.
Typesetting she describes as “very
restful, rather like knitting” (which is
slightly different from what the com-
positors say when copy is late!).
Mrs, Quick first became interested in
the physical aspect of books when study-
ing for her M.A. at Melbourne Uni-
versity, and commercial-art claimed her
after she graduated. She and her
husband, Mr. Ernest Quick (now art
master at Tudor House School), were
among the first to produce hand-printed
linens in Australia, and during the war
she kept her hand in by illustrating
children s books. Her first essay at hand-
printing on a platen was a monograph on
Mary Stuart, and her first book, Stone
Walls, about the buildings around
Berrima, was published by her own
“Juniper Press” in 1949.
/
A perfectionist who makes every page
a work of art, Mrs. Quick says that
making a book like this is “maddening,”
because one never knows till it is finished
whether it will be good or not. Her next
project is a book by Barbara Woodward
called Ihe Fall of the Cedars about the
timbergetters of the N.S.W. North Coast,
but this will probably not be completed
for another 18 months, as she is doing the
maps for a biography of John McDouall
Stuart, her great-grand-uncle, which is
being prepared by her sister, Mrs. Mona
Webster.
V V
Commencing next Monday (Feb. 6)
and continuing until Friday (Feb. 10),
Anthony Horderns’, in conjunction with
National Opera, will hold an Inter-
national Bridal Exhibition. Not all of
the world’s brides dress in white, of
course. Those of some countries favor
red or blue or even black. This exhibi-
tion should prove of absorbing interest
to women. It will be opened on Monday
afternoon by the Lord Mayor in the
presence of members of the Diplomatic
and Consular Corps.
☆ ☆ *
One of the most valuable organisations
in this city is the Family Welfare Bureau,
which exists to help people with their
problems, to lend a sympathetic ear and
to give sound and informed advice.
It was formed at the end of the last
war for the benefit of people who are
not eligible for help from the many ex-
Service organisations, and it has proved
the salvation of many civilian widows,
bewildered migrants, pensioners seeking
an interest and hobby, teenagers unable
to cope with the responsibilities of adult
life, discontented wives and husbands,
people distraught with worry about illness
and finance.
It aims, wherever it possibly can, to
hold families together, believing that in
the stability of family-life lies the secret
of a mature, happy and well-adjusted
population.
The Family Welfare Bureau is in need
of funds, principally to provide a service
whereby foster-homes can be found for
children who need such an environment.
Anyone who wishes to help others and
who wishes to play a part in building fine
citizens for Australia can do this quite
simply by giving a yearly donation, by
organising a function and giving the pro-
ceeds, by joining the Birthday Club and
paying 10s. a year on his or her own
birthday, or by offering to perform some
kind of voluntary-work. The Bwreau is
on the corner of Martin-place and
Phillip-street. The director is Miss M.
Pillinger, Dip.Soc.Stud.
# if- V
That colorful character tenor Miklos
Gafni is back in Sydney to start a 20-
weeks’ concert-tour of Australia for the
A.B.C. This time he is accompanied by
his wife, who seems equally lively,
sparkling and vivid. Before her marriage
Mrs. Gafni was an actress, but now she
contents herself with housekeeping and
cooking for her 2001 b. husband.
☆ ☆ ☆
This year Germaine Rocher’s winter-
collection will be shown in aid of the
Sydney Day Nursery Association. The
show will be opened at Rocher’s salon
in the Trust Building by Lady Lloyd
Jones on February 6, and, after- the
opening, cocktails will be served. There
will be two further showings on Febru-
ary 7 and 8. As usual, many Paris
models will be included among the
clothes to be seen.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Nutcracker Suite,” at the Empire, has
proved so popular that the season has
been extended to February 2, and the
ballet-season will now continue until just
before Easter. The world premiere of
“Corridor” is scheduled for February 17,
and the programme will include “Pet-
rouchka” and “Pineapple Poll.”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Very Oral
Thirty years ago, or longer,
around the Death Adder Creek
area of Westralia’s Middle Swan
district, there was an old
character known by the local
youngsters as ’Orrible Bob. A
solitary shack-dweller, shabby,
rough-shaven and gaunt as a
kitchen-chair, he was given, when
the mood took him —generally
at night—to preaching from the
edge of the footpath in the
adjacent railway suburb of Mid-
land Junction. He lived and died
lonely—his shack was avoided,
particularly by children, and the
only ones who paused to hear his
roadside sermons were dogs and
drunks.
He comes currently to mind
because of the recent invasion of
Australia by the American Oral
Roberts’s “Healing Campaign.”
Not that there is any resem-
blance, except that ’Orrible Bob,
like Oral, held that the Almighty
could cure the faithful of their
physical as well as their spiritual
ills. It is the contrast rather than
any comparison that recalls
’Orrible Bob.' His desperate,
gummy diouting never caught up
with the passers-by and probably
only the street-lights saw him
come and go.
Oral Roberts, looking rather
like an immaculate high-pressure
salesman, arrived in Sydney with
a blast of publicity—not all of
it favorable; the Fourth Estate
gave him the treatment —and set-
up business at Moore Park in a
tent of a size that would have
done old Cheops proud. When
the present commentator went
out there the other evening, the
tent, heaving gently in the
breeze like a dun-colored pre-
historic leviathan, stood between
the blaze of red and yellow
cannas along Moore Park-road
and the light of Sydney Show-
ground, where a hoarse voice
was calling the addicts to see the
speedway-racing.
Scattered round about outside
were the massive red trucks and
huge stainless-steel trailers of
Brother Roberts’s organisation,
with exotic number plates
branded “Heart of Dixie
Alabama.” From one trailer,
presumably the electric-power
plant, cables as thick and as
black as a black-snake twisted
and ran around the tent to
powerful floodlights. Children,
of course, scaled the guy-ropes
or peered under the flaps.
Inside, the tent was supported
by a forest of gleaming steel
posts, including eight massive
centre-poles with six floodlights
clustered around each of them
and throwing an unfriendly
glare on the audience, which
filled a lolly-colored assortment
of chairs and overflowed to the
standing-room at the back. They
looked a sad and earnest gather-
ing, with but an infrequent spot
of youth and beauty among
them.
The evening began with intro-
ductions, hymns and rhythmic
clapping, an invitation to men
and women to help lower and
pack the tent on the following
weekend, and then an adjuration
to everyone to kick the tin
towards the expenses of the cam-
paign. The collection was
notably well organised, and the
bucket-shaped paper cartons
passed smartly along the rows
to be just as smartly collected by
ushers at the other end.
Shortly afterwards, Brother
Roberts appeared on the dais
and, after some more introduc-
tions and singing, asked every-
one to shake two people by the
hand and say “God bless you.”
The Bulletin was twice shaken
and twice blessed. Then Brother
Roberts really got down to busi-
ness, which was a sermon on the
theme of Samson and Delilah.
The “sex-drive” was important
here, and Brother Roberts
wrestled mightily before he threw
a saddle on it and got it down
to something like the simple
words of the Command-
ment on this issue. With a pic-
turesque wriggle of his hands
he described Delilah’s “weapons”
and how she “sedooced” the
redoubtable Samson by refusing
to come across until he had given
her the dinkum oil about his
strength. He had, incidentally,
previously described how Sam-
son slew a thousand Philistines
with the jawbone of “mee-ule” —
a mild anachronism, since mules
don’t crop-up in the Bible until
David.
He went on to tell how the
Philistines fell upon the hero of
the Israelites —“they didn’t just
“Come outside and say that!”
blind him ; they gouged out his
eyes”—and took him away to
the mill to grind, going “round
and round and round and round
and round.” Here Brother
Roberts trudged round and
round and round and round and
round the stage with weary tread
and dragging the microphone
behind him.
Of its kind it was all quite
good stuff “hot-gospelling,”
presumably —and the present
commentator went along
pleasantly with Brother Roberts
until it seemed that he was
making the mistake common to
too many preachers of dragging
out his sermon to interminable
length, as though he were enjoy-
ing it more than his audience.
Thereafter the evening ran
into deeper waters. Brother
Roberts called on those who
wished to be saved to raise their
hands, then stand, and then
come forward to the front of
the dais. The roof of the tent
sighed a little in the breeze and
whispered as a skitter of rain
raced across it. A sprinkling of
people moved forward from the
audience. Brother Roberts
spoke again. “Sometimes,” he
said, “God speaks to me. He
has just spoken to me tonight
and told me that there are one-
hundred - and - twenty - three
people among you tonight who
want to be saved.” He urged
the laggers to come forward and
told them there was no hope for
them if they didn’t. Gradually
the numbers grew in front of
the dais and a count of heads
revealed 127 four ring-ins,
apparently.
Brother Roberts prayed for
their salvation, and they were
then taken away to another tent
for further prayer, while in the
main tent the physically-afflicted
were called forward to receive,
through Brother Roberts, the
cure of the Almighty. A long
queue lined-up and prepared to
file past the dais. Brother
Roberts took hold of a child
allegedly suffering from a
speech-impediment and the
child spoke slowly and fairly
clearly ; he then rested his hands
on a young man who “couldn’t
sleep at night because of the
pain in his leg”—at which stage
The Bulletin felt it was in
waters too deep for it and
departed.
Outside, a few small groups
of young fellows were running
towards the tent, apparently be-
cause, as one of them shouted,
“The healing’s on!” Away on
the other side of the tent the
speed-cars or -bikes were blurt-
ing as their drivers or riders
hurtled as close to eternity as
most of us ever get in this life.
P. D.
• • *
Operatic Night
Cammeray (Sydney) Music
Group opened the first concert
of its fourth year with a pro-
gramme mainly of arias and
duets from operas of Verdi,
Mozart, Gounod and Puccini
sung by bass-baritone Alan
Light and dramatic-soprano
Gladys Mawson.
Mr. Light is always at his
best in strong drama, and in
the “Cortigiani” from “Rigo-
letto,” in which the hunchback
jester by turns reviles and pleads
with the courtiers for the release
of his abducted daughter, he
suitably darkened his voice in
the denunciatory passages and
sang with great power. In
“Mephistopheles’ Cavatina”
from “Faust” he delivered that
sardonic serenade with a full
quota of cynicism, and he in-
jected a good deal of evil into
the final series of Mephisto-
phelian laughter. This is a full
bass aria, but the singer had no
difficulty in maintaining full
resonance in the depths of the
register. ‘‘A Maiden Fair,” from
“The Magic Flute,” light as
thistledown, was sung with the
right blending of banter and
delicacy.
Miss Mawson’s “One Fine
Day,” from “Butterfly,” had
character, her soprano reaching
to the heights without a sugges-
tion of being forced at any
point, and the true pathos of
the aria well captured. In the
duet-work she was particularly
impressive, especially in the
splendid number from Act I of
“The Masked Ball,” in which
the jealous Renato accuses his
wife of infidelity. Here, too,
the baritone projected his hate
with fine forcefulness.
Another duet with strong
dramdtic impact was that from
Act 111 of “II Trovatore,” the
pact entered into between Count
Di Luna and Leonora to save
Manrico from execution. Here
the conflicting emotions of the
two were clearly presented, and
the voices blended well.
In different vein was the duet
from the first act of “Figaro,”
in which the barber-factotum
and his Susanna engage in some
airy persiflage. Here the singers
adjusted their voices skilfully to
the needs Of opera buffa.
Mr. Light sang three fine
arrangements by Korbay of
Hungarian folksongs: “Had a
Horse,” with its touches of
poignancy and nostalgia; “Play
On, Gypsy,” finely lyrical; and
the forceful “Shepherd, See Thy
Horse’s Foaming Mane.” Miss
Mawson’s lighter songs included
Sullivan’s “Orpheus With His
Lute” and two by Frank Bridge.
, Adrian Holland accompanied
the singers with taste and discre-
tion, and among his solos
included a fine unpublished
“Barcarolle” by Louis Pabst,
who toured Australia in 1885
and in Melbourne founded the
Academy of Music.
&
Water Everywhere
On the sacred ground at
Kooyong, Melbourne, where the
heroes of the tennis - world
periodically fight for Cups, Sam
Snyder has erected two tanks full
of water and is nightly filling the
tanks with the Fabulous
American Water Follies.
On the night this commentator
saw them the moon looked
through a fleecy dond at the pro-
ceedings, and then hurried off to
send Mr. Snyder a pressing invi-
tation to bring his aqua-maids,
aquabelles and aqua-ballerinas
on the first lunar spaceship, add-
ing a reminder that he had better
brihg along his own water. Mr.
Snyder is certain to accept the
invitation —as Pat Hanna, the
Old Digger entertainer, remarked
to The Bulletin, the Americans
can get away with anything.
Remoteness is the show’s only
drawback. Seen from aloft the
voluptuous curves of the aqua-
belles and the aqua-ballerinas
have to be taken more-or-less for
granted, and the main points of
Mary Dwight, Florida’s triple-
crowned beauty-queen, are partly
obscured by distance and partly
by water.
When the lights go dim, how-
ever, and the aqua-mermaids go
through their evolutions glowing
with the phosphorescence of
their chemically-treated bathing-
suits, the effect is striking. They
are, incidentally, Australian
mermaids.
♦> ♦♦♦
Port Jackson Jazz Band
The Port Jackson Jazz Band
shows hardihood in choosing
Sydney Conservatorium for its
concerts, but it holds that the
good acoustics and parking-
facilities offset the rather cold
and depressing atmosphere.
The band, recently re-formed
under the leadership of Ken
Flannery, strikes a high level
of technical proficiency, and
from its repertoire of nearly 150
numbers, old-time jazz and
popular tunes, it produces many
arrangements which' are witty,
inventive and novel. However,
in spite of its vigor and gusto,
it doesn’t seem yet to have
reached the stage where a free
interchange of ideas is permis-
sible among its - members —
there’s something careful and
studied about its air of casual
nonchalance. Perhaps the Con.
is to blame, or perhaps the band
has not yet been together long
enough.
A carping critic might say
also that the tendency to make
the drums too prominent is to
be deplored, and that a pianist
of Dick Hughes’s remarkable
gifts might be looked to for
some creative contribution to
jazz, rather than, or perhaps in
addition to, his clever interpreta-
tions of Jelly Roll Morton.
Nonetheless, the 800-or-so
enthusiasts at last week’s con-
cert seemed to enjoy it
thoroughly, and so did this
critic.
$
“Masquerade”
“Masquerade,” a musical
play allegedly based oh the loves
of David Garrick, gave the Aus-
tralian Light Opera Company a
chance to try its talents at
something different from the
usual stereotyped musical-
comedies, and, on the whole, its
presentation at Sydney’s Rock-
dale Town Hall showed
improvement in many ways.
The ballet, more artistically
dressed than hitherto, managed
the classical dances effectively
and displayed wit and liveliness
in the third-act “Masque of the
Hunters.” The chorus moved
about the stage with confidence,
and if the “gentlemen of * the
ensemble” did not look anything
at all like 18th-century rakes,
they were well dressed and sang
creditably.
Rodney Smith played David
Garrick with his usual com-
petence, and experienced Betty
Cheal showed verve in the main
comedy-part. John Heffeman
also offered a neat little picture
of one “Phil Pettigrew, a candle-
snuffer,” and Mary-Elizabeth
Anderson, though not lively
enough, made a beautiful Peg
Woffington.
Generally, the singing by the
women principals wasn’t up to
standard, but Joy Hughes sang
“Cherry Ripe” with charm and
sweetness.
Artbursts
Churchill Painting
Melbourne National Gallery is
showing the 50 portraits which
survived the scrutiny of the
judges in the “Australian
Women’s Weekly” international
competition. If the entries from
other countries are any criterion,
overseas standards aren’t in any
way superior to Australian.
Ming Chao-kuo sends a scroll-
like picture from Formosa
painted according to Chinese
tradition, and John Alfsen, of
Canada, an v average-quality
academic portrait.
There are no surprises in this
parade of portraits painted
ambitiously for a purpose, but
there is a surprise in the gallery
adjacent—a landscape loaned by
R. G. Menzies and painted by
Sir Winston Churchill unambiti-
ously for his own amusement.
It isn’t stated whether the
veteran statesman painted “Sail-
ing Boats in the Harbor of
Antibes” between two wars, two
Cabinet-meetings or two confer-
ences of the great ones of this
world, but he must have been as
focused on the job while he did
it as he was on bricklaying when
he took that on after World
War I.
The painting is not by any
means a great work, but it is an
uncommonly good one —as fresh
and spontaneous as anything
around it, and without a hint of
any prevailing fashion or
“idiom.”
M. G. S.


Guardian Angels
by Jack Lusby
a tOE LING’S in town,”
I said Poldenning.
I I had a choice chunk
of grilled mackerel half-
way to my mouth. I put it down
again. The way you would if a
man said “There’s a bomb under
your chair.”
“Saw him this morning,” Pol-
denning went on. “Lugging
cameras etcetera along Queen
Street.”
“No-o-o,” I said in a
descending and dying scale.
“Da feesh orright?” asked a
thick Greek voice at ear-level.
Something must have shown on
my face.
“Da fish is beaut,” I said.
Old Peter padded away. Ling
remained, lumbering boister-
ously around in my head.
Recollections of Ling raised
gooseflesh under my shirt.
“What the hell’s that trouble-
magnet doing here?” I hubble-
bubbled through a quick gulp of
coffee.
“Dunno exactly vague as
usual. Arrived here last night
on an R.N. destroyer. Been
photographing Hiroshima.”
“Gawdstruth don’t tell me
it’s radioactive as well!”
“Active, anyway,” said Polden-
ning. “Found myself nursing
half-a-ton of camera before I’d
finished saying ‘Hullo! ’ ”
“You seem strangely un-
stricken,” I said.
“Fatalistic. D’you want those
chips?” Poldenning was bland,
blond and balding. I envied his
bold front. _
Trouble trailed Ling like "a
shadow. A crackerjack with a
camera and company to be
avoided like an unpinned
grenade.
“Just have to keep out of his
way,” I said with resolution. “He
might tear off somewhere else
in a day or two. Might go away
on the destroyer. Is it still here?”
“Indeed yes,” said Poldenning.
“We’re dining on board tonight.
Ling’s guests. Skipper’s approval.
All fixed.”
“Sticking our necks right out,
eh?” I swirled the coffee-dregs
in the cup. I had an oppressive
feeling of impending doom. I
lost the toss, paid old Peter, and
we walked back to the office.
pOLDENNING and I were
doing some Queensland
stuff for Variegated Press.
We were using the inter-State
room in a Brisbane newspaper
building and we took the lift up
there and settled down for the
afternoon.
Poldenning stoked and fired
his meerschaum, rolled some
copy-paper into a portable,
leaned his chair back to balanc-
ing-point, crossed his brogues on
the desk and stared into the hot
blue sky through the window.
I’d pounded out a reluctant
paragraph when the phone rang
beside me.
“Inter-State room? Hold the
line, please. Sydney calling.”
“Hullo! Johnson or Polden-
ning there?” Sydney asked in a
rusty bass voice.
“Johnson speaking, Mr.
Burton.”
“Seen Ling?”
“He’s been in touch.”
“Good. We’re arranging to
borrow him for a fortnight to
work in with you. Too good a
chance to miss. Expect the O.K.
in a day or so. Meantime steer
him clear —keep track of him—
the guardian-angel routine —
0.K.?”
“0.K., Mr. Burton.”
I told Poldenning.
“Makes no difference,” he
said. “He’d have been around
anyway. Soon as this arrange-
ment’s confirmed we’ll hustle
him off to get color-pics.”
“Gulf of Carpentaria or
Thursday Island,” I suggested.
“And talking about islands” —-
“ —Tomorrow being Friday
we go to our island,” said Pol-
denning. “And stay there till
Tuesday—lapping up the lazy
lapis-lazuli dolce-far-niente for
which the island is justly
famous”
“Trailing tranquil turtles
through the turquoise
depths”
“So let’s finish this stuff and
get it away.”
YXJE’D rented a small week-
ender on the island. Some-
times even took our work along.
The small pub on the ocean side
had a phone to the mainland.
An hour or so down-river in
the steamer, which then used to
head north-east for nothing in
particular. A low island, it
basked flat on the sea like a
sleeping sting-ray and showed-up
late in the piece.
When you landed you crossed
to the ocean side in a fearsome
rattletrap—a sort of skeleton
1918-charabanc. But still handled
with verve and a flourish.
Islanders at either end of the
track always turned-out to fare-
well or welcome this vehicle.
A good place, the island —good
to think about this afternoon
sitting in our hot cell in the city.
“What are you on now?”
—Poldenning tramping on my
thoughts.
“Skulldragging a feed from
the surf.”
“Thought you were quiet—are
you going to help skulldrag this
feed from Sydney?”
I turned my thoughts back to
the typewriter. Forebodings
about Ling faded with the
island.
A T five-o’clock we spotted
him leaning by a schooner,
giving the saloon-bar customers
a deadpan once-over.
_ Hefty and swarthy, bare
beginnings of the clown-smirk
showing. Carelessly dressed in a
good, fawn lightweight, panama
shoved back on his head, which
at this moment was turning
clockwise in low gear.
As Ling saw us a muffled ex-
plosion of laughter behind his
smirk stretched it to the full
clown ear-to-ear crescent.
He either laughed like gelig-
nite underwater, or noiselessly
with head back and gob open
at dentist-chair stretch. And
always gave the impression that
something absurd was afoot,
even photographing war-time
slaughter point-blank.
“Old Ginger Johnson!” Ling
deep-drawled at me. “Well,
waddya know! Coming aboard
my ship, eh! Keelhaulings while
you wait.” He almost choked
with laughter.
“It’s getting too enigmatic,”
said Poldenning. He ordered
beer.
“How’s Hiroshima?” I asked.
“All over the place,” Ling
informed us.
“How’d you come to get on an
R.N. destroyer?”
“They wuz too many for me,
pardner. Posse a’ Yank M.P.s
a’jeepin’ plumb on me
’ammer”
“Okay, okay,” said Polden-
ning. “And this yere river-boat
right handy, all steamed up an’
rearin’ t’ go.”
“Make you work your
passage?” I asked.
“Documentary,” said Ling.
“Midnight - exercises and
typhoons a speciality.”
He left it there. I shoved the
empties barmaidwards.
“Still game to risk the ship’s
brig or being dunked in the
river?” I said to Poldenning.
“We’re his guardian-angels,
remember. Sworn to tail him
everywhere, bustle him out of
bistros and bordellos, huckster
him out of hoosegows”
“You wanta be careful,” Ling
told Poldenning. “You’re begin-
ning to sound like your own
news-fakes.”
YX/'E got a cab and went along
the waterfront in the dusk
past all shapes and sizes of the
things sailors go down to the
sea in. Lights were showing in
cabin-portholes. Here and there
floodlights, swinging derricks,
noise and bustle. Mostly silence
on the ships along the river.
“Snug and comfy, ships’ lights
look,” Poldenning was saying.
“Homey and independent. And,
berthed, they say ‘To hell with
you ashore and everything about
you; we don’t need you, you
bloody trees. We can up-hook
and go /’ ”
“Just what I said,” came from
Ling, head half-turned in the
cabbie’s seat.
“Getting like your own stuff.
You’re pretty near a gone coon,
Poldenning.”
“I dunno” —the cabbie began,
looking at the shipping
“Then shut-up about it! ” Ling
slapped him boisterously between
the shoulder-blades. “Neither
does the backseat magsman!”
The destroyer nestled low
against her wharf like a goanna
beside a log, eyes twinkling.
Ling led the way dexterously
aboard, introduced us to a bloke
on deck, and so below to the
wardroom.
All very cosy—a slightly gala
night introductions included
other visitors. Gaggle of young-
ish Navy types sitting around on
the benches, couple of small
groups standing, quaffing beer
and gin. A white-clad steward
was weaving among them with
commendable energy.
CTANDING with us for a
minute, in the centre of the
smoke and chatter, the captain
had dispelled our last doubts:
“Glad you two chaps brought
Ling back safely. Ship’s mascot.
Greatest capacity for enjoying
life, any circs., any man I
know.”
Ling peered at him, puzzled
for a moment, then the depth-
charge laugh.
“Ship’s mascot, sir?” I said.
“You didn’t have luck with
him! ”
“Yes,” said the captain.
“Varied.” He was called away.
“Snug set-up,” Poldenning
murmured to me half-an-hour
later. “Promising evening.”
We were hobnobbing with one
Kilmaurice, sub-lieut.
“Our guests seem disgustingly
staid.” An authoritative voice cut
cheerfully across the wardroom.
Kilmaurice leapt to action-
stations.
The authoritative voice came
alongside. “All well?”
“Most interesting, sir,” said
Poldenning, his round bland face
beginning to beam.
“Ah, yes. Where is our
chubby mascot?”
“Right here, Cap t a i n,”
drawled the mascot, looking
heftier and swarthier than ever
in the confined space where
Saxon fairness predominated.
“Did he really do you a docu-
mentary, sir?”
“We insisted, of course.”
“And that’s putting it bloody
mildly,” said Ling with some
heat. “Never worked so hard.
Roused me out all hours day and
night. The whole bloody crew
were briefed to keep a sharp
look-out for picture-stuff. Ship
bottom-up with care —so much
the better! ”
This time the rumbling clown-
grin, then the dental - chair
moula-exposure. Then his solid
frame shook with dead-pan
amusement.
The steward, twisting adroitly
through, like a white cockatoo in
timber, distracted Ling’s atten-
tion. He turned away.
“Damn him,” said the captain
without rancor. “When he
laughs like that he makes me
feel ridiculous!”
“I always feel my pants are
undone,” said Poldenning. “Or
there must be lipstick all over
my face.”
IN the morning it seemed a
better idea to stay right there
in bed than to rise and sail for
the island.
The flower-papered walls of
the pub-room were turning
slowly and my bed was doing a
rate-one left-hand climbing-turn.
I pressed a foot firmly against-
the rail at the foot of the bed
to check this tendency. No good.
She kept going round and up.
“Damn Ling and his bloody
destroyer! ”
Incoherent mutterings from
Poldenning—a hump of sheets
on the other bed. The girl
knocked and brought in cups
of tea.
“Just put it down, kid,” I told
her in a graveyard key.
“Woo woo!” she commented
softly and went away.
A cab got us to the S.S. Hupa’s
wharf with two minutes to
spare. It was almost 8 a.m.
There wasn’t much to hump up
the gangway—fishing-gear and a
lot of other stuff we left at the
weekender. Even so, this final
effort, at an urgent trot, seemed
to take a lot of energy.
The Hupa was now a bay-
steamer ■ — seating-accommoda-
tion everywhere. Quite a crowd
on board. We made our way
towards our favorite position
right aft, stepping over out-
stretched legs—many bare and
shapely, others not worth a
second glance, or male over
children and fishing-gear and
deck-cargo, past the bosun
supervising casting-off, by a
group of the islanders in faded
shirts) ancient panamas and
crinkled slacks —“G’day, Johnno!
G’day, Pol! ” —and slumped
down with grunts of relief on a
long, broad seat by the rail.
I was getting my feet up, kit-
bag for a pillow, preparing to
gaze out at the passing river till
I went to sleep, when I saw the
camera.
I reached back and knocked on
Poldenning’s bald dome like on
a door.
“Look,” I pointed with one
weary foot. “That camera-junk.”
“Yeah,” Poldenning said. “He
should be, aboard somewhere.”
“Gawd! Was that necessary?”
“Goddammit, man — you con-
vinced him! Remember?”
“You’re a liar!”
“Nothing of the kind. I made
a tentative approach to Ling
to come along with us —keep him
in tow as Burton said on the
phone. Personally I didn’t care
much if he came along or not.
Ling said ‘To hell with your
crummy tinpot sandspit; I’ve
had a bellyful of islands! ’ ”
“Good on him for once!
Why wasn’t it left at that?”
“Just that you, my dear John-
son, brushed a brace of our
Navy hosts aside and busted into
the argument. ‘Crummy tinpot
sandspit!” screams Johnson.
‘Listen, ratbag’—and you spouted
a stream of beery spittle about
paradise-on-earth cut-off from
the pressure of the press — with
pub that’s about when Ling
asked you to shut-up. Wanted
to know what time the boat left.”
Poldenning relapsed into ex-
hausted silence.
“Sorry,” I said. “Serve me
right. Farewell peace-and-quiek
No police there —one blessing.
Or is it?”
(i Continued, on page 22)


-*»> Ii'OTItKDIT
6
m
aWU
m
o.
/S9S\WQS\
&Q
;o
$
£/&
0
(553
C 3
/A
C>
IlL\ Mil jiunmui
£5?
K?
cove
SE*
Wl
/ii
at
r
\N
C 2
><>*<*
o
4**o
S 3
o<*^
<3
°o*
53
00a
A'
8
44 o
000
v ) *
ta m
E N
O
000
*53
®
PA
>o'->
,- r ’
3 ■■>■>
W/
L
□
wh
HOT*
Ql
WITHIN HALF A mile OR so of Piccadilly circus are many of those
famous London highways and buildings which, all over the world,
have come to signify the peak of quality. And, at the very centre of
quality tradition, is Old Bond Street —the home of Benson & Hedges.
Here , for close on a century , Benson & Hedges have quietly pursued
the art of making their cigarettes from the finest of fine Virginia
tobaccos, blended with superb skill and care.
Among smokers there will always be those whose first concern is
with price rather than with quality. There are others —perhaps
smokers by habit—who will admit that, between one cigarette and
another, they themselves are unable to detect any significant differ-
ence in quality. But, to Benson & Hedges,
the only kinds of cigarettes worth making
and worth smoking are those which reach the perfection which
distinguishes a cigarette made from the finest leaf by craftsmen who
know no standards other than the best. That, of course, is a personal
view. But it is a view which, happily, is shared by the many smokers
in all parts of the world who have for so long enjoyed Benson &
Hedges cigarettes in the friendly, familiar, red tin.
Now, in Australia , with cigarettes again in unrestricted supply,
it is noticeable —and Benson & Hedges are proud of the compliment
—that the natural experiments and trials with other cigarettes have
merely served to confirm the smokers’ original choice and judgment
of Benson & Hedges. For with cigarettes, as with so much else, a
few extra pence can make so great a differ-
ence in added enjoyment.
/T\ Sfiude r7/?tyou£‘
(2) @
J&ndott'
® €ou fl / r J&M
(J) cftoue ’£aau&
(5) t
(§) 'S&ai&eijrfudr
fy&ittpfcnStfuA''
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
TOBACCONISTS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD
Bensons Hedges
OLD BOND STREET ■ LONDON ■ W1
there: are also special Virginia cork tipped for those who prefer them
X
_
US
<sv


IXL - AJC
OK - VG
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
INSURANCE —for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Hong Kong.')
’A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. _
Telephone: BW 8I 31 (4 lines) W - J. C. PENNELL, Manager,
“Guardian-angels, guardian-
angels,” Poldenning murmured.
I stretched out again on my
back and watched the sunshot
tracery of a steel bridge turn
like a wheel-spoke above as
S.S. Hupa took a bend in the
river.
Here boatsheds, wharves, and
a clutter of craft crowded the
shore. A spindly forest of masts
rose from the small stuff. A
dazzle of sun on white paint and
water, brass and glass, but the
shadows were still long. A
shadow fell on me.
“Old Ginger ! Thought you’d
miss her! D’y’ mess about
counting y’r freckles in the shav-
ing-ipirror? And if it’s not
Poldenning! How crook are you,
Baldy?”
“Bad, now, thanks,” said
Baldy.
Ling stood wearing a bashed-
about Army lid, the clown-
smirk and time-expired jungle-
greens. He was holding a bottle
of milk.
“Find a cow on board?” Pol-
denning asked politely.
“No siree—they sell this down
below.” •
“What ’re you planning to do
with it?”
“Put it in the rum.” Ling had
three glasses stacked in one
spacious hip-pocket. He put
them on the deck beside the milk,
walked across to the camera-
gear and returned with a bottle
labelled “Blue Jacket.” He knelt
over a guggle-guggle noise for
a minute or so, then served the
mixtures to his recumbent
guardian-angels.
“Petit dejeuner!” he an-
nounced. We downed our break-
fast with unseemly alacrity.
“Say what you like, Johnson,”
said Poldenning, “on this
occasion I move a vote”
“You can cut it short,” I said,
“It’s making me feel better, too.
Keen thinking, Ling.”
The breakfast-things were
stacked away safely, Poldenning
seemed to be settling into a
peaceful slumber, I lay back
looking at anything that needed
only slight head-movements.
Seagulls, an occasional fore-
shortened female torso as it
passed—tranquil stuff.
A sudden terrifying whoosh
lifted me off the seat and the
flash of flame seared my
whiskers. An acrid pyrotechnic
stink hung in the air.
Ling had managed to train
some sort of rocket on the
moored destroyer and discharge
the missile as we passed. That
was all.
“Recognition-signal,” he ex-
plained, before that internal
humor haemorrhaged and
choked him. He leaned on the
rail spluttering, and tears ran
down his face.
nrHE river twisted like a
snake now, and the sun
shifted as old S.S. Hupa took the
corners.
We passed the remains of a
war-time liberty-ship that had
missed one. And a low-planing
echelon of pelicans which
seemed to be having no trouble
at all.
“Those freight-jobs have got
formation taped,” said Ling,
looking at the big birds. “You
can have your albatrosses—they
haven’t got that!”
He fished a smallish camera
from his gear and as the pelicans
swept low past the ship, great
wings white against the water,
he let ’em have it.
“How many, d’you reckon?”
Ling said.
“About a score,” said Polden-
ning. “Going to peddle the
picture at so much a pelican?”
“My dear fellow shouldn’t
dream of it. Assure you. Abso-
lutely.” Ling went away for’ard,
camera sticking out of his hip-
pocket where the glasses had
been.
s “Why the overtone of vaude-
ville every time he opens his
trap?” Poldenning asked. “Voice-
switch, different accent? It’s not
snob-stuff, sob-stuff, sycophant
or stagey. I can’t get it in
focus.”
“It’s like his bloody habit of
laughing at himself so hard you
wonder if your own pants have
fallen down,” I said. “The vocal
effects give you the feeling
you’re coming apart somewhere
else.”
“You mean you feel your face
to see if you’re toting a mask
that’s slipping?”
“Something like that. It’s un-
intended, mostly. He just senses
that the whole human herd is too
bloody absurd to be taken
seriously, and that Ling is its
most ridiculous component.
That’s why something always
happens. He’s for ever uninten-
tionally proving his point.”
“You made a study of him.”
“The foregoing theory has
formed haphazard during long
exposure.”
“Still, he’s worth talking
about.”
“Ease your conscience—
wherever he’s been he’s talked
about. But unique, if that’s what
you mean.”
“Where the hell’s he gone?”
said Poldenning. “I could use
another jorum! ”
He’d been on the bridge yam-
mering with the skipper—a rare
privilege on the Hupa. He pro-
duced the cordials and dispensed
them.
Poldenning was so far en-
livened as to admire the label on
the bottle. “Blue Jacket,” he
said. “Most apt here and now.”
“Aha!” said the dispenser.
“When in Rum, do as the Rum-
mans do!”
“To treat the potion fairly,”
said Poldenning, “they also
make good milk in Queensland.”
The river was widening into
the bay, foreshores flattening into
broken stretches of mangrove.
A bit after nine-o’clock and
warming up. Prettty soon the
bay swell was running green
past the grey flanks of the Hupa.
She gave a marker cautious clear-
ance and headed for an empty
horizon nor’east or thereabouts.
“Ho island! ” I said.
“Ho what?” said Ling, peering.
“This one ain’t Tahiti, chum,”
I said. “All she hasn’t got is
mountains.” Ling was still “ho-
whating” an hour or so later.
Other islands rose high and
smoky-blue a good way sea-
wards. Ours remained coy.
“We often begin to worry,
about here, that there’s been an
extra-high tide,” I told Ling. He
was sniffing ahead and showing
an almost healthy interest.
“Flying-fish weather,” he said.
He struck a bullfrog posture,
mouth dragged down, and glared
at Poldenning.
“A double noggin of rum, Mr.
Christian, to the first man to
sight land!”
He jerked a querulous glance
aloft, turned and strode stiffly
away for a few paces, then col-
lapsed helplessly on a packing-
case, head down, hands on
knees, and nearly laughed him-
self sick. This time he had
company.
“There she lies!” Poldenning
cried, pointing dramatically.
“That beautiful stroke of
deeper blue on the horizon!”
“Blue stroke?” Ling bawled.
“Somebody subbed it?”
Soon it was a wavering line of
disembodied scrub, quickly sup-
ported by a thin streak of
snowy white sand. Half-an-hour
later the Hupa let go a “here-I-
come” blast on the whistle and
turned up-tide towards the jetty.
T ING picked up his camera
■*-' gear and walked down the
gangway with an “I-own-the-
island” strut. We followed.
“To which of you shall I send the bill ?”
The i s l ander s were a friendly
crowd and there were “Hoy,
there ’ s ” to Poldenmng and me.
Ling panned them objectively,
ead turning slowly like a
cam era, his stare blank as a
lens - His eyes rested critically
on the ancient contraption there
to convey us across the island.
The driver s eyes rested critically
°n Ling. He was proud of
what his old bus could do.
He had a Iran and raiding
, ,Major Bert Clark
he’d fought in the cold air over
France in 1916. He drove this
bus > hunched, tense and con-
centrated, over the jerking
wheel as though in a strafing
bomber.
He sent her bumping and
skidding along the narrow
sandy track, and the scrub
bruslied and rattled against her
rusty sides. We hung on\ and
gritted our teeth. At the turns
I ground sparks from my
amalgams. Ling was laughing
uproariously.
“How far?” he shouted.
< ip •, >,
.Four miles.
lnataiu
The bus swung round in front
of the little pub and stopped in
a cloud of steam under a giant
fig- The surf boomed in the
sudden silence.
We had a couple of beers,
introduced Ling to O’Meally
an d some of the customers, then
carried the gear to our shack,
300-yards north along the beach.
Poldenning fixed lunch and I
rigged the rods and strolled
across to old Jim’s place for
bait. The big blue-nose whit-
ing were running in the surf,
Jim told me. Suicide-jobs.
Good.
“I know naught about fish-
ing,” Ling said after lunch,
Poldenning purposefully handed
him a rod.
“My girl-friend could catch
blue-nose whiting,” said Pol-
denning. He had a mythical
girl-friend he referred to in
moments like this.
I cast for Ling and gave him
the rod.
Just wind ern in, I told him.
They were there all right,
Poldenning had three and I had
a couple m no time. All of a
size. Big reflows.
Suddenly I missed Ling.
Looked around for him. He
was way back sitting under a
breadfruit-tree, still dutifully
holding the rod. The baitless
hook was on the sand a good
five yards short of the water.
“His heart’s not in it,” Pol-
denning said.
We fished on for an hour,
then gave it away. Ling had
vanished.
We cleaned the fish and took
them and the rods to the shack,
Busied ourselves cutting a
su Pply of firewood and filled
the hurricane-lamps. Then
walked along to the pub. The
surf was breaking red into the
last fiery rays of the sun.
r B 'HE small bar was crowded
and hilarious.
O’Meally’s Great Dane lay
wa tchfully in the safest corner.
It was size o£ a well . grown
calt> and> as a non . drinkar>
to occur ,v more than its
”° upy more than lts
" ~ .
Ling was standing shirtless in
the centre of things singing.
Beating time on the bar with
the palm of his hand, and
harmonising in fair enough
fashion with O’Meally’s wife
and Bert Clark’s daughter.
At first we only saw his large
brown back with one shoulder-
tq a£ i e working in rhythm.
« Has he got any thing on?”
p o ifl enn i ng exclaimed.
, fd * * A
B . ut the ad . sre f. n Army
pants were still in position. Be-
hind faar Q ,^ n had a
straneelv vlazeH ionic R P rt
jSrVL® 1 Si
Cla rks stern, lean face had be-
“f
wi”
shirt-and-shorb was telling him.
Something had certainly hap-
P ene d to the island s evening
tranquillity. Ling was like a
rock chucked into a calm pond.
I noticed Charles—a very self-
contained Englishman who had
come to the island for a holi-
da Y and stayed on with his
mouth opened wide in song.
W e recognised the song old
Bk a Moor Bar T at.”
“You’re just in time!” Ling
shouted. “It’s my crack-o’-the-
whip! Where’s me shirt?”
“Don’t you remember, old
boy—the ladies tore it off,” said
Charles,
“Must be here somewhere,”
sa id Li ngj and began casting
a bout, bending down and peer-
ing a j- th e floor-boards. Sud-
denly he gave a s fl out 0 f triumph
and waved aloft a fore-quarter
0 f green shirt. A sleeve and
one pocket
“Under the dog all the time!”
he said “ Kne ° it was here
somewhere ”
. ' , . . . . .
V n A V ndld s f l rt " pocke l
a s , JjjL* onlrlthp hlr*" 5
p <t ° ° ll th f, ) bar ’
Action, O Meally! he corn-
manded.
Shortly afterwards he came
back to the shack with us in
great good-humor and was
loud in appreciation of the fish
we ate and of Poldenning’s cook-
mg- He was exhilarated, not
so much by the beer, as like a
kid who’d put a frog in the


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
’2BPnF’ "" m
Choose the
rom
our
AR-110 Utility, 115" w.b. 12 cwt. capacity
(above) AR-112,115 * w.b. 15 cwt. Panel Van
(below) AR-120,127" w.b., 20 cwt. with tray body
and drop sides.
Now is the time to choose your new
truck from the world's best truck in-
vestments—lnternational trucks. Every
truck in the famous International
family has all the heavy-duty engin-
eered features and long-life perform-
ance that sets International ahead of
every make. Compare each model for
value feature by feature then you
must buy International.
If you’re a tradesman, a carrier, con-
tractor, builder, or farmer or grazier—
there’s an ‘all-truck’ lightweight Inter-
national with just the right capacity
and stamina for your job. See your
dealer NOW!
INTERNATIONAL truck features include:
ip 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy loads. ip 3-speed
transmission for more usable power. ip Proven duo-servo
brakes for positive safety, ip Heavy-duty chassis design with
straight frames, ip Natural angle steering ensures comfort —
lessens fatigue, ip Comfo-vision cab—room to spare for three
big men —wide angle vision, ip Low-loading for ease of
transfer of loads, ip Long semi-elliptic springs for heavy
loads. .. smooth riding, ip Nation-wide dealer organization
for competent service, ip International trucks are Aust-
ralian-made—ensures full supply of parts.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
FMT 709-36
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
... THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
schoolmistress’s desk and got
away with it.
After lights-out we heard him
laughing in his bunk.
AT breakfast he was talking
about the whales which were
then travelling close by the
island in great numbers.
It seemed that Bert Clark
had told Ling that even in a
small launch there was nothing
to be feared from whales. Had
often been out right in their
track. Safe as a bank.
“He’s taking me out today.
Get some pictures,” Ling said.
Clark owned a broad-beamed,
solid-looking fishing-boat with
a cabin for’ard. We saw them
go out through the surf soon
after breakfast. We could also
see the whales playing along a
couple of miles out. Occasion-
ally a seventy-foot monster
would seem to rise lazily clear
out of the sea and hang in the
air before crashing back.
“Clark’s crazy,” I said.
“Doesn’t know what he’s in
for!”
“Thank God he’s in for it,”
Poldenning said, gazing at the
slow, gargantuan splashings out
to sea.
Late afternoon they came
back, wallowing and shooting
through the surf, into the creek.
As we walked to the pub Ling,
humping camera, and Clark
came along the beach.
Clark’s hand shook as he
raised his brandy. It was
a long time before he spoke.
“Close-ups!” he exploded at
last, and shuddered.
Weeks later I watched a
truly frightening color shot of
the streaming, sky-filling under-
belly of a monster that appeared
to be passing almost over the
camera like an airship, the great
tail-flukes curling for the
plunge.
A LONG the beach south of
the pub stood Kelly’s Ocean
Paradise Guest House. The
suave Englishman, Charles,
stayed there. The night of the
whale-expedition the Ocean
Paradise was burnt to the
ground.
It was towards midnight.
We all stood helplessly in the
glare of the conflagration,
women in flimsy night-rigs,
Charles nursing a bundle of
fishing-rods. All Kelly’s guests
had got out, singed but safe.
Mame-lit, Ling’s rugged face
seemed strangely distressed.
It was said at the morning
post-mortem that Ling had fixed
a pyrotechnic surprise under
Charles’s bed —a hunger made
of powder from a Verey car-
tridge. Ling’s guardian-angels
held an urgent conference. It
was decided that Ling was not
good for the island. Action
was taken. About midday the
cameraman was summoned to
the pub’s telephone.
“Return to town to -day!”
he said suddenly. “What the
hell for? I like it here. Get-
ting some pictures!”
“Listen,” he said. “I’ve just
heard a whale’s stranded four
miles up the beach—calf swim-
ming in shallow water near by.
Was going to commandeer a
bus and tear along and get it.
Good stuff”
He gave in, rang off. “Some-
thing more important in town,
they reckon,” he told us.
Poldenning and I pretended
sympathy. We arranged to
meet Ling at the Tai Tong cafe
the following evening for a chow
feed.
Early afternoon saw Ling
stowing his gear on the “bridge”
of the bus. He climbed up be-
side Bert Clark and waved a
glum farewell. The juggernaut
surged off and jangled away
along the track.
“Ho hum,” said Poldenning.
“Respite for guardian-angels!”
WHEN Ling strode into the
Tai Tong he’d recovered
his exuberant good - spirits.
Too much so. High as a kite.
The clown-grin was pushing his
ears back.
“ ’Ullo, ’ullo, 'ULLO r Pol-
denning said like the bloke in the
8.8. C. programme.
“Got a phenobarb?” I said.
Ling threw his panama on a
peg and sat down as lightly as
a hippopotamus. He ordered a
large bowl of short soup with
fried rice and prawns.
The Chinese girl’s white gown
stretched lightly over her con-
tours.
“Y’ know —we could play
naughts-and-crosses on her,”
Ling suggested, and slapped her
neat and glistening backside.
She moved adroitly out of
range.
“Break it down!” I said in
some alarm.
The soup came. To our
horror Ling suddenly went to
sleep and slumped forward face-
first into the bowl of soup.
“Jeezers, he’ll drown!” I
said, and pulled him out of it
by the hair.
Poldenning dried him off with
a serviette.
We gave the cabbie half-a-
quid.
“Wait with him outside the
King’s Hotel —we’ll ,be along
in a few minutes when we finish
our meal,” I told the cabbie.
“Right !”< said the cabbie and
drove off.
When we reached the hotel a
quarter-hour later there was no
cab, no Ling. After half-an-
hour’s frantic telephoning from
our room we gave up and
turned-in.
Listening as usual to the radio
news before going to sleep. A
gunman had stuck-up three
taxi-drivers over in South Bris-
bane. Detectives thought the
man was from Sydney. Dark,
heavy build, fawn suit, panama.
“Hell,” Poldenning laughed.
“Did you get that description?”
We switched it off and went to
sleep.
AS a matter of fact, Ling had
revived and had become so
truculent that the cabbie had
run him straight to the watch-
house, where he’d been cala-
boosed, “drunk and disorderly.”
Released about seven-o’clock
next morning, Ling sat on a seat
by the river. Too early yet to
call on anyone.
Suddenly there was a violent
squeal of brakes and four big
men exploded out of a black
car and surrounded him.
“Where do you belong?”
“Sydney,” said Ling, eyeing
them sourly.
The big men closed in. “We
think you’re the man who held
up cabs last night with a gun.”
“Do you, now!”
“How long since you’ve been
in jail?” (
“All last night!”
“What! Don’t try and get
smart! What’s your name?”
“Ling.”
“It’s okay —that name was on
the list,” said one of them. The
big, weary men seemed to slump
with disappointment.
“How d’you like our hoose-
gow?” asked one or them.
“Pretty good!”
“Pretty good?’’
“Yes—the tariff’s only a dollar
here. It’s ten-bob in Sydney!”
They laughed and left him
alone.
The same morning we re-
newed our search and were
getting telefrustration and
phoneurosis. We searched
through a dozen pubs and rang
the hospitals.
“Shall we try the morgue?”
asked Poldenning.
“No —he’s indestructible. He
just destructs.”
Burton phoned from Sydney
confirming Ling’s appointment
and asked to speak to Ling.
Burton’s comment when we
couldn’t produce Ling or give
Burton a lead rang in my ears
for an hour. It turned out later
that Ling, after his release, had
spent a good part of the day in
theatres looking at films.
Looking at films!
About five in the afternoon
Poldenning and I were having
a much-needed beer before re-
pairing to Old Peter’s for a feed
when Poldenning’s shoe touched
me on the shin.
Two large, hard-eyed men
were looking straight- at us.
THEY came over, and one
said “Finish your drink,
then we’ll see you out in front.”
They went out.
“Might be something about
the problem-child,” I said.
Poldenning shrugged re-
signedly.
Outside they said “We’d like
you to come to the C. 1.8. with
us.”
We got in the car and went
along.
“You’ve been seen in company
with a man who answers the
description of a man being
sought by the police for armed
hold-ups,” was the opening
gambit.
The last straw! Even the
philosophical Poldenning turned
purple in the face and seemed
about to burst. He did burst —
into profanity.'
“That stuff won’t get you
anywhere. We’re holding both
of you for questioning. Detec-
tive-Sergeant McColl should be
back to have a word with you in
a couple of hours.”
We were left alone, speechless.
When I thought of Ling red
lights burst behind my eyes.
Suddenly our misery was
interrupted.
“Come out here, you two,”
said a plain-clothes bloke.
There, lolling at ease on the
charge desk, was Ling.
“Do you identify these men?”
“Certainly!” said Ling.
A little more natter and we
were out breathing the free air
again.
Over a beer in the nearest
pub, “How did you know we
were there?”
“Easy,” said Ling. “Couldn’t
find you —no one knew where
you’d got to, so I phoned the
obvious places.”
Laughter started somewhere
down inside him and his whole
big frame shook with it.
“What you blokes need,” he
said when he’d recovered, “is a
guardian-angel!”


f
because a one-man chain saw needs
m
M
m
©
s?
CO
m
i«o
9
U 9
35
gives you all the power you need
to fell trees up to 3 ft. 3 ins. diameter
A chain saw is something you want to be able to carry about with
you |ust like an axe. Therefore, a chain saw must be light. And
take a bushman's word for It, Mobilco is light ... but when you
get to the tree you must have power, and power to spare. That's
Mobilco power and power to spare. A genuine, surging 5 b.h.pw
to cut deep into tough Australian hardwood with
steady, sure-fire efficiency.
Look at this little beauty; light enough for a light*
weight to carry about ... as sturdy as the timber
in which it works. You've got it all in Mobilco . ..
quick-action clutch, blade turns for felling or scarfing
position, engine and carburettor always remain in
the same position; rubber-covered forearm grip,
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name....
Address.
fingertip chain oiler; fitted timber case with good quality
tools and fuel can; and a THREE MONTHS GUARANTEE.
Don't let a day pass until you know the full "Mobilco
Story". Send in the coupon today. TERMS AVAILABLE
. . . You can buy the Mobilco for £7B/-/- deposit (Cash
Price, £196/10/-). That's mighty good value for a hard-
working, timesaving Mobilco Chain Saw.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER RD., AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-1245
°" ,C *, 4l °' 4l6 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES)-BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
Backlash
by Peter
Ward
IT was that time of morning
when the roads were still wet
with dew and the rubbish
in the gutters was fresh
and odorless after the night
chill; it was that time of morning
when the cold hung heavy and
still in the air and it was more
comfortable to be working than
contemplating it.
Phil studied the job as he
rolled a cigarette. The cracked
bitumen measured roughly six-
feet by ten. The fifteen-hundred-
weight of metal should do it, he
thought. He traced a line around
the job with the point of his pick
and looked at his mate, Stan.
“Let’s get into it, Stan.”
Stan was standing on the road-
way with his hands thrust deep
into his Army-greatcoat pockets.
He had been standing like that
for five minutes now, just stand-
ing there, watching the traffic go
past.
Reluctantly he took hold of
his pick and watched Phil chip
carefully along the line around
the cracked bitumen. “Suppose
we better do a bit,” he agreed.
“This should keep us going for
a while anyhow.”
The cracks in the bitumen
extended irregularly to the line
drawn by Phil and ended in tiny
leaf-like veins. Phil felt his pick
bite easily into the road and saw
the moisture in the crevices. He
muttered to himself.
Stan stopped and looked at
him. “What’s that?”
“I said it’s rotten. We did this
about two years ago. I think this
is the one. There’s a hollow
here. The damn’ thing should be
filled-in to make a job of it.”
“ ‘Filled-in’? How do you
mean, ‘filled-in’?” Stan rested
his hands on his pick and pre-
pared himself for a few minutes’
spell.
“Well” Phil noticed him
standing there. “Well, when it
rains there’s a pool of water here.
It soaks in and rots the bitumen.
It doesn’t take long for the
traffic to break it up.”
“Oh . . . You’d need a lot of
metal to bring it up level,
wouldn’t you?”
Phil looked at the section
Stan had chipped. “Take it down
deeper than that, Stan. You
won’t know where to stop when
you start to dig it out.”
“All right.” The response was
eager, but purely superficial. The
tempo of his strokes did not in-
crease and the bite was still too
shallow.
Phil did not notice. His body
was bent forward in a crouch,
his stomach-muscles and legs
tensed like springs and his arms
wielding the pick with supple
strength.
The chipped line around the
job was completed, and as he
straightened to survey it the timid
fear at the back of his mind
overwhelmed him with the first
stab of pain from his groin. He
gripped the pick-handle so hard
that his knuckles went white.
“That’ll do it, Stan,” he said
with constraint. “We’ll dig her
out.”
Phil swung his pick with high,
rhythmical strokes and the pain
was gone, leaving the timid con-
sistency of fear which was sub-
dued in the heat of the work
and the reassuring power of his
body. He broke up one side, then
started on the other and came up
against Stan scratching the sur-
face ineffectively half-way along.
“I’ll finish this, Stan,” he said
without looking up. “You
haven’t gone deep enough.”
“You want it deeper . . . ?”
“Just clear that off what I’ve
done.”
STAN ambled over to the
gutter and took hold of his
shovel. He watched Phil bite out
chunks of bitumen with an
enthusiasm which dismayed him.
A procession of cars filed
slowly past their Road Under
Repair notice and stopped when
the traffic-light on the comer
changed to red. An attractive
young woman driving a red
sports-car stopped directly
opposite Stan and lit a cigarette
while she waited for the light
to change.
Stan stood and watched as
she drew smoke into her lungs,
then blew it out in a thin stream.
He observed the action of her
fingers as she glanced in the rear-
vision mirror and caressed her
brown hair past her ear. The
movement of her fingers and the
tilt of her head possessed him
with subtle longing.
The light changed to green and
the line of cars revved to
accelerate off the hill. The
young woman in the sports-car
revved her motor, then let out
the clutch too quickly. The car
jumped forward a few inches,
the motor chattering. She pushed
in the clutch and the car began
to roll backwards. There was a
warning blast from the car
behind as she hastily applied the
brakes. . .
Stan saw himself stroll over to'
her car. “Take it easy,” he told
the driver behind her. He was a
thin-faced man with rimless
glasses. Would be better if he was
a decent-sized, truckdriver. That
would make more of an impres-
sion.
He reached the car and spoke
to her reassuringly: “You seem
to be having a spot of trouble.
Could 1 help?”
She smiled thankfully and he
noted that her teeth were slightly
nicotine-stained. He liked that.
“Oh, yes, you could. I’m
always having trouble with these
hill starts/*
He opened the door. “Move
over. I’ll take you to the other
side of the road”
“Stan! ” Phil roared and threw
his pick aside as the young
woman hastily applied the
brakes, revved her motor and,
this time, took off smoothly.
Stan blinked and became
aware of his hands resting on
his shovel.
“Hey, Stan; clear that off,
willy a? I’ll get the sprayer
ready.”
“Okay.” Stan was agreeable.
He painstakingly selected a
shovelful of rubble and threw it
on to the road.
Phil swore under his breath
and walked over to the tar-
sprayer. He uncoiled the rubber
hose from around the pump and
took a bundle of kerosene-
soaked waste from an open four-
gallon drum near by.
He knelt down to wind the
waste around the neck of
the pipe leading from the drum
of tar and the pain in his groin
eased off. Funny, that. It could
be because the stomach-muscles
were contracted. Might not be
hernia. Might be only a sprained
muscle.
Whatever was causing the pain
was going to make the day very
long, he told himself. He lit the
waste; the kerosene flared
hungrily and small pieces of
waste dropped off and fell burn-
ing to the ground.
He knelt and watched it
devour itself and was conscious
of a cold awakening breeze on
his back. That breeze would be
an unpleasant wind by afternoon.
It always came up like that, this
time of year.
Phil could hear the painfully-
slow scraping of Stan’s shovel
and the dead thud of rubble fall-
ing onto the road. He swore at
Stan under his breath and he
swore at Jim O’Sullivan, the
ganger, for sending Stan out on
the job with him.
Then the rubble began to fall
onto the road like hailstones.
There was just the quick
crunch of metal eating into
rubble followed immediately by
the sound of it being thrown
all over the road.
"pHIL turned around to look at
Stan and saw beyond him
Ritchie, the works foreman, in
company with another man,
walking towards them from their
parked car.
Phil stood up and eyed them
with misgiving. “G’day, Mr.
Ritchie,” he said cordially.
“Good-morning, Phil.”
“Cold enough for you?”
“Too damn’ cold.”
The man accompanying
Ritchie Was watching Stan work-
ing. He said something to
Ritchie which Phil did not catch.
“Are you going to spray this
now?” asked the stranger —Phil
guessed he was the new engineer.
“In a few minutes, when my
mate clears it off,” Phil said.
The engineer squatted on his
haunches and Ritchie followed
suit. They studied the exposed
foundation and murmured to
each other ; then the man spoke
up to Phil: “This is rotten.”
Phil remained silent. He
already knew it was rotten and
why it was rotten.
They stood up and the
engineer said, “If you put your
metal in on top of that, the
dampness will eat up through it
and it’ll break up again in a few
months.”
Phil waited a bit, then asked,
“Well, what’s to be done?”
The engineer pointed. “I want
you to dig down to the ballast-
just here. It’s the lowest point
here —and we’ll see what that is
like.”
Phil took hold of his pick.
o Continued on page 30)


Recipe For Success
The Case For
The Dead-end Job
By OLAF RUHEN
WHEN the holidays are
over and the pride of
the family has been
bullied, badgered and
bribed into a return to school,
the average parent must sit back
and ask himself whether, after
all, the result was worth the
effort.
The answer —that, of course,
it was not —is conditioned by a
haunting suspicion that there are
few alternatives. So at this stage
I should like to ask whether
sufficient consideration has been
given to the claims of the Dead-
End Job.
I refer here not to the cribbed
and frighteningly cabined cul-
de-sac in which, for his lifetime
efforts, the bank-manager is
incarcerated; nor to the cold
and windswept Ultima Thule of
the boys’-school headmaster,
the Macquarie-street physician
or the shipping-tycoon.
They are indeed in a dead-
end, imprisoned by the scenery
that surrounds their daily effort;
unable, even on a luxury-trip
around the world, to free them-
selves of the habiliments of their
incarceration, able to communi-
cate only with their fellow-
prisoners. To such a dead-end
I would not consign my worst
enemy.
No, my recommendation is
for the ordinary dead-end job
for which a healthy boy of good
physique, a clean mind, and an
extrovert soul is so eminently
fitted: the job of the bottle-
washer, the gravediggers’ assist-
ant, the newspaper copy-boy, the
fruit-shop attendant,’ the tram-
conductor, the cabin-boy, and
the builders’ laborer.
I refer to all the tasks, indeed,
in which there is no hope of any
advancement, no outlook, no
adequate supervision, no shining
promise for the future,
and, above all, no trace
of that ever-ready help-
ing-hand which has
nudged so many bright,
inquiring minds along
the road to boredom, to
Saturday night at the
pictures, and slippers
for the rest of the
week’s evenings.
For over the wall
surrounding the dead-
end job lies the only
royal road to success.
And, if you seek
financial success for
your lad, a little research will
prove beyond a suspicion of
doubt that any millionaire any-
where who did not start off in a
dead-end job inherited the basis
of his fortunes from ancestors
who did.
I do not for one moment
agree that success can be
measured in terms of finances;
but amongst the world’s
standards the measure of finan-
cial success has an exact and
prominent calibration; and
perhaps it would be as well to
deal for a space with this signifi-
cant, if improbable, aspect of
your son’s future.
I have a friend who says,
simply and without qualifica-
tion, “rich people aren’t nice
people,” and there are times
when I agree with him. Assum-
ing that this is one of those
times, I am going to come out
flatfooted and lay at the door of
the established millionaire the
blame for the bad “press” with
which the dead-end job has been
inflicted. And I say that it is
primarily the pure selfishness of
the successful man which has
sought to discourage the entry
of youngsters into dead-end
careers.
They do it through the seats
of learning.
The possession of millions is
an immediate entree to the most
exclusive club in the world. The
members, like members of
exclusive clubs anywhere, quite
naturally—a n d wholeheartedly
—discourage any public
tendency to join their coterie.
They turn a cold eye on the
aspiring riffraff. Their social
commerce is with other million-
aires, and thus they keep their
money in the family. This, how-
ever, is a passive policy ; and no
millionaire attained his position
by being passive. I reveal now,
perhaps for the first time, some
of the active steps they take.
First: Nearly all millionaires
—all millionaires except those
extrinsically out of character —
give large sums pf money to
educational institutions. This
ensures that large dollops of
education will be shovelled into
a high proportion of the more
intelligent of the country’s
youngsters, who then, instead of
making their way in the world,
will accept positions as bank-
clerks, budding scientists,
journalists (with 8.A.), school-
teachers, employment - officers
and university research-workers.
Thus, in an ever-deepening
stream, is most of the younger
talent channelled away from
"He worked his way up from nothing."
that happy maelstrom which is
the hurly-burly of life.
Second: To take care of the
remaining considerable body of
potential antagonists of indus-
try’s captains and its kings, con-
siderable care is taken in
choosing the educational bodies
which receive this assistance.
They are -never, nowadays, of
the old-fashioned type in which
successful competition earns any
credits, or even applause. They
are all of that modern variety
in which examinations have been
discarded.
This policy has the immediate
result of ensuring that such
children as are ill-content to
accept the low remuneration of
a highly educated graduate are
thrown into a competitive world
without any experience whatever
of the functions, the stresses or
the joys of healthy competition.
They have been spared the con-
current anxieties and nervous
tensions of competition, too —
and will for ever shun them.
Most of them will go into safe
compartments refrigeration-
experts, accountants, insurance-
executives. Hardly one in a
hundred of these will contribute
his quota to the world’s pro-
ductivity; and hardly one in a
hundred will get his share of the
rewards.
Thirdly, your millionaire of
acumen, unless he has a tre-
mendous consciousness of social
obligation, will always have on
offer dozens of opportunities for
bright talent. Each year he
absorbs thousands of ingenu-
ously grateful lads into his
organisation, so that he over-
shadows and’hides the excellent
futures they could have carved
out, left to themselves in the
dead-end jobs of their fancy.
The excellent future does not,
of course, arise of itself in the
dead-end job. It arises from the
pressures brought to bear on the
boy who fills it.
For there is nothing more con-
ducive to the self-employment of
an active brain than the task,
say, of selling oranges to
captious housewives six days a
week and 50 weeks a year. Only
a dull lad will continue to do
it. Your bright extrovert
becomes immediately a lad on
his toes, eager to seize his own
opportunities, to look upward
and outward.
It is he who starts his little
business on the side, buying old
pushbikes, painting them up,
and selling them to youngsters
whose future is assured. It is he
who acquires the double-headed
penny, who breeds racing-
pigeons or budgerigars or gold-
fish ; who buys the secondhand
typewriters, or helps-out at the
riding-school.
And later on, of course, after
he has gone flat broke half-a-
dozen times, it is he who
acquires the newspaper-round,
or the corner garage, or a
secondhand truck, and lays a
rickety basis for a solid
tycoonery.
In this he has several advan-
tages. He earns more money
for a start. He has a little
capital; or, having lost a little
capital, he knows some of the
pitfalls and how to do better
next time.
The 13-year-old who assists a
gravedigger to the tune of £l5
a week has earned a good con-
ceit of himself as well, and
isn’t at all likely to be seduced
into a schoolteacher’s gown and
mortar-board, to spend his days
encouraging other little lads
away from such payable dead-
end enterprises. Much more
likely that at 30 he’ll be digging
a new and better Suez, pocket-
ing his fifteen-million with the
air of a man who knows what to
do with it.
It’s the lad who has used a
shovel who knows how best to
avoid one ; who can appreciate
the advantages of investing in
ever bigger and better power-
driven earthmoving equipment.
As for letters, the honors and
intangible emoluments of study,
he doesn’t need them. He can
hire men with letters, straight
from the universities. And
when he gets a little older he
will subsidise the universities.
“I would like to see every
bright young lad get the educa-
tion I never had,” he will con-
fess in the dedication speech at
the opening of the new wing,
his tongue firmly in his cheek.
The odds are that,the university
will give him a cap and gown,
anyway.
Going broke is one' of the
most stimulating experiences a
young man can have, especially
if he is still in his teens. The
effect is like that of a kick in
the tail —it’s uplifting, and,
while you are still young
enough to learn a lesson from
it, there is nothing more
valuable.
This is a great drawback per-
taining to the young man who
has been educated away from
the dead-end. He doesn’t get
an opportunity to go broke until
he is well in his thirties. As a
result, the effect is numbing and
not stimulating. The loss of
stimulus is accentuated by his
years of sedentary life. There is
no value in going broke after
you are old enough to be raising
a family.
Looking over what I have
written here, I find myself in
danger of falling into a trap of
which I was fully cognisant. For
I have written as though success
were to be measured in terms of
dollars and pounds; and this 1
do not believe. But lam loath
to impose my own standards
upon any worried father; and
therefore must look for others.
At a venture, I will suppose that
success depends, let us say,
upon happiness and content-
ment.
And here the supreme factor
favoring the dead-ender is the
knowledge that his success,
when it comes, will have been
due to no one but himself. But
even in the early stages, while
he is still in his dead-end job,
he has developed the happy
independence that is born of the
knowledge that his job is not
worth hanging on to, anyway.
And he will get experience.
Perhaps he will hold down a
dozen dead-end jobs before he
finds one in which he can
expand a little, or achieve a
personal triumph by becoming
an employer rather than an
employee.
Because of this chopping
round —a feature of the career
of a dead-ender —he is able to
rid himself of the delusion that
distant fields look greenest. He
does not spend his middle-age
with the unhappy suspicion that
he is a square-peg in a round
hole. For, from his experience,
he can adjust himself to fit
anywhere.
Unlike the university gradu-
ate, who has his eyes on a
distant and more-or-less per-
manent goal, the dead-ender is
accustomed to concentrate upon
the next step ahead. This con-
centration is important. The
scholar at high school has
meandered through his year,
learning or half-learning a great
many things because the creator
of the syllabus requires it of
him. But the dead-ender, in his
studies, concentrates on learning
the thing he most wants to know.
Good, sound, successful dead-
enders like Lord Beaverbrook
have even written books about
the results of such studies.
These are read by university
graduates, and so are a waste of
time ; for there is no required
reading in the dead-ender’s
syllabus.
The most successful man I
know, if money be not the
criterion, is Territorian Bill
Harney, who went to school at
the age of eight, and in a year
or so had learned sufficient to
see there was no future what-
ever in that kind of an educa-
tion. He went into the dead-
end career of delivering clean
washing, a task that took so
much out of his legs that his
head decided to get a horse.
He became a drover. So he
went on, eventually turning to
the writing of good books for
the matter-of-fact reason that
he had run out of reading-
matter.
Today he is firmly entrenched
in the respect of a greater cross-
section of his fellow-men than
most others of the country’s
notabilities.
These days, of course, it is
not so easy for a boy to drop
into a dead-end job. The
millionaires and the education-
ists, with the help of such of the
newspaper magnates as are
anxious to maintain a reading
public, have succeeded in having
the school-leaving age raised to
15. It is hammered into the
scholar, without a great deal of
justification, that this is the age
of the institution-trained special-
ist. All kinds of open doors are
set enticingly to lure him aside
from his broad and honest
approach to the dead-end. And
his eyes are always encouraged
to turn to the hollow image of
the false goddess Security, set
on a pedestal with her back to
the cul-de-sac.
But if he manages to keep his
mind on the more solid image of
Independence over the wall, if
he resists the blandishments and
the promises and, emerging from
the school-gates, sets out for the
dead-end at a hand-gallop,
there’s still a hope for him. The
world is still full of dead-end
jobs, and the competition is easy-


SMARTS
Circular Charts for ail typos •
of Recording Instruments
for mi y data of Machinery
or Equipment
HtTER CHARTS • Specialty
JACK WM O‘SiLLI
STREET. BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER DESMOND POTTER late of
100 Dudley Street Lideombe.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY IRENE POTTER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1656
of 1954 on the ground of desertion -with-
out just cause or excuse for three (3)
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 2nd April 1956 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from LIGHTOLLER, TALTY &
BROOKE, Solicitors, 2b Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Sporting Notions
YOUR shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Six months back smart
Sydney sprinter Apple Bay won
the Doomben Ten Thousand at
long odds, and at next outing
(December 31) finished a close
second to the more-seasoned
Lindbergh in the Carrington
Stakes, so he was the logical
favorite for the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes at Randwick on Satur-
day. And at no stage did he
look like losing.
Apple Bay gave jockey A.
Ward his fourth success in the
Challenge. Ward had previously
scored on San Domenico in
1949, on the same horse again
in 1950 and on Tarien in 1954.
Apple Bay is trained by T. J.
Smith, who also had charge of
Tarien.
Though eligible for restricted
company, Alahvii ran a tiptop
race to be second to Apple Bay.
Alahvii has been a model of
consistency at recent starts —
two wins and two seconds. A
grey, he’s by Nizami (Fr.) from
Fan Dancer, and, though lightly
framed, he has plenty qf
courage.
Light Lady, a mare bred in
Eire in 1945 and imported to
N.S.W. four years later by
George Christmas, is the dam
of Blue Rhapsody, who, at
Randwick, won her first race,
the Sledmere Handicap for two-
year-old fillies, in impressive
style. On a rain-affected track
she carried topweight (8.9),
started from 21 barrier, and was
going easily ahead at the win-
ning-post. The filly, raced on
lease, had started only twice be-
fore last Saturday, and at the
outing preceding her success
was a 100-to-l chance. Having
at that start finished second to
the brilliant French Fable, she
had the best form of the Sled-
mere field, and was backed
accordingly—from an opening
generous price of 9 to 1 to
favoritism at fives.
Movie Boy, Randwick Sunny-
side Maiden Two-year-old win-
ner, is a brother of Love To All
and Prince Jambo, both good
sprinters, Love To All’s record
including the Gimcrack, Mersey
and Kirkham Stakes. The dam,
Saros, is a sister of noted Mel-
bourne performer Chanak, and
is by Hellespont (Fr.) from
Studio, a Flemington and Caul-
field winner, by Manfred.
Studio’s brother Manrico was the
fastest Mebourae horse of his
time at gathering early speed ;
his wins included the 1939
Cantala Stakes.
The finish of the AJ.C.
January Handicap was a
remarkable head - and - head
struggle between full brothers —
Roman Holiday (winner) and
Prince Delville (beaten a nose).
Roman Holiday is a three-year-
old and Prince Delville a year
older. They are by Delville
Wood (imp.) from Eternal City
(imp.) by Epigram. Roman
Holiday’s win was his fourth in
succession.
At Caulfield on Saturday Near
Valve was 10 to 1 in the Griffith
Handicap for three-year-olds,
though he’d also won about a
month earlier at Remington. The
colt, trained by J. Barry for N.
Walch, is a brother to two Mel-
bourne winners, Just Caroline
and Carburettor, being by
Neapolitan (imp.) from Choke
by Windbag from Little Valve
by Cyklon (imp.). Bred at North-
wood Park, Seymour (Vic.), Near
Valve comes from the family
which produced Hall Mark,
Nuffield and Murray Stream.
The Orb, winner of Caulfield’s
Barton Handicap, is one of
several Melbourne horses
nominated for the A.J.C. Don-
caster Handicap, weights for
which will appear next Monday.
The Orb, who is also expected
to travel to Brisbane for the rich
winter events, including the
Doomben Ten Thousand,
started a warm favorite and won
in fine style. His time for the
seven furlongs, 1.241, was only
half a second outside the course-
record held by Ajax and Attley.
One of the easiest wins seen
on a Melbourne track for weeks
was that of Cloaked in the mile-
and-a-half Deakin Handicap at
Caulfield. Cloaked, hitherto
regarded as a miler, opened a
lead of 20 lengths at one stage.
There were “demonstrations”
afterwards against Cloaked’s
win following on failure at 10
furlongs at his previous start,
and against Sir William’s beat-
ing only a couple home, in con-
trast to recent form which
included his win in the Inter-
national Stakes. On stewards’
instructions, Sir William was
given a vet. overhaul and it was
reported that his condition was
consistent with his having had
a hard race over the 12 furlongs
under his 9.5.
* * *
Brisbane trainer H. Best won
races at Eagle Farm last week-
end with Book Link and
Atheist, both maidens. Book
Link won the Harrow Maiden
Nursery for colts and geldings;
Atheist had an easy task in the
Second Enoggera Handicap.
Book Link is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Honey Dew by
Christopher Robin (imp.) from
Brunette by Magpie (imp.) from
Winsome Queen by Comedy
King (imp.). Winsome Queen
was a sister of Artilleryman
(winner of the Melbourne Cup)
and Folly Queen (V.R.C. Oaks
Stakes). Atheist is one of the
Nilo (imp.) breed; his dam,
Tops, was got by Brazen (imp.)
from Highness by Silvius (imp.).
Victoria gets cracking this
coming weekend on the early-
autumn weight-for-age contests,
With Melbourne Racing Club
featuring the C. F. Orr Stakes
of £2OOO (one mile). A week
later the V.R.C. will stage the
£2OOO Lightning Stakes, a five-
furlongs flutter at w.-f.-a., but
on the same programme is
another w.-f.-a. contest, the
£2OOO Blarney Stakes (1| mile),
and the better-class horses will
appear in that race. The
Flemington double will be fol-
lowed a week later by the £5150
Alister Clark Stakes (11 mile) at
Moonee Valley. On Monday,
March 12, the big attraction
will be the V.R.C.’s £lO,lOO
Queen Elizabeth Stakes (11 mile).
The progeny of Australian
sires keep on winning in
America. The latest to score
include Gemerald, a two-year-
old filly by Royal Gem ; she won
a Maiden worth £(A)1500, at
Hialeah Park. The filly was
ridden by leading U.S. horseman
Willie Bartack, and was having
her first race-outing.
Spirited bidding at last week’s
Randwick auction of thorough-
bred horses sent the price of
Grey Magic to 1650 guineas,
which seemed quite a spot of
money to pay for an untried
maiden two-year-old, but evi-
dently she had been, well tried on
the training-track. The filly will
carry the Viteren colors and be
trained at Canterbury by Bob
Mead. She is a well-bred
youngster: her sire, Tsaoko (Fr.),
a good stayer, won 10 races in
England, while her dam, Near
Thing (imp.), is a Nearco mare
from Loelia by Blandford from
Lily of the Valley by Tetratema.
Tsaoko is the sire of A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes winner, Sajax.
* * *
It’s the right season for a
horse named Bondi John to be
in form. One of the most
powerfully-built pacers seen for
a while, a five-year-old chestnut
son of Lawn Derby, he has won
seven races on end—the last four
at Harold Park —and all in the
manner of a champion. He won
the Country Three-Year-Old
"It's flying straight and level and should make a smooth
landing near the flag”
j Championship run at the Park
two years back, and has since
been given time to mature for
hard racing. He was never less
than three wide in winning his
Qualifying, and at his two sub-
sequent starts he has won with
his ears pricked against horses
that will win a lot more races.
His dam, Miss Powter, is by
Lawn King from a mare by
Winn Alto, which makes him a
steadier for critics of inbreeding.
On the Inter-Dominion front:
the last two form-guides before
the big race to be run this month
were both won convincingly by
outsiders. At the postponed
meeting Brucus downed Blue
Gamble and Andi, Brucus start-
ing at 66’s. With good form in
N.Z., and good form here before
his last spell, Brucus —in the big
run from the scratch-mark —
could be well in it. At last
Friday’s rain-drenched meeting,
short-priced favorite Van Hall
was downed in the last stride by
Recovered, who, like Brucus,
was just in from a spell. The
unlucky horse of the Inter-
Dominion, Recovered has regis-
tered two seconds, a fourth, a
fifth and one failure to reach the
final from his five attempts.
This year may be his lucky one.
Third to Recovered and
Brucus, Andi (runner-up- in
Tennessee Sky’s Inter-Dominion
in Adelaide) is showing form
that rates him a chance.
Mineral Spring is holding his
form well at gymkhanas and is
one of the more robust con-
tenders. Early favorite Spring-
field Guy has not been produced
in any of the Harold Park
warm-ups ; but he’s reported to
be working the tracks down and,
under restraint, is racing like a
likely winner at the gymkhanas.
Enzedders Moss Hall and
Vedette had a kick-out in
Recovered’s race, Moss Hall
meeting with slight interference,
still to be just behind the place-
getters, and Vedette (an Inter-
Dominion winner) finishing
with a spirited burst into fifth
place. Thelma Globe, N.Z.’s
wonder mare, ran second to
Mineral Spring in a gymkhana
free-for-all restricted to Inter-
Dominion horses —a solid effort
for a “week-off-the-boat” horse.
Active Ayr, the temperamental
grey, has broken-up at his last
two runs; yet, on Friday night
he made up enough ground to
be fourth in—a good run.
+ +
Landy is right back to his top
—and could perhaps reach a
higher peak. On Saturday in
Melbourne he made athletic his-
tory by being first to run the
four-minute mile in Australia —
3min. 58.65ec., o.6sec. outside
his world-record run in Finland
in June, 1954. And he said he
was “sluggish” for most of the
race!
It has been said more than
once that Victorian distance-
runner Dave Stephens, though he
holds most of the Australian
distance-records, is not in the
class of runners like Chataway,
Pirie, Kutz, Iharos, etc. (The
value of his win over Iharos
last December was often dis-
counted.) But it surely can no
longer be said, after Stephens
last week clipped s.2sec. off
Zatopek’s world six-mile record,
in the new time of 27min. 54sec.
The value to Australian
athletics of coach Franz Stampfl,
now of Melbourne, is shown by
the quick improvement in some
of his pupils. Merv Lincoln, one
of Australia’s most promising
milers, ran the mile last
Saturday in 4min. o.6sec.,
which was 11.4 sec. better than
his previous best a few weeks
earlier. Another protege, 18-
year-old Ron Clarke, has set
11 junior distance-records in the
last seven weeks.
* * *
The N.S.W.-Victoria encounter
at Sydney Cricket Ground last
Saturday marked the 100th anni-
versary of games between the
two States. The first was played
in Melbourne in March, 1856,
with N.S.W. victor by three
wickets. The first between the
two in the Sheffield Shield com-
petition was in December, 1892,
in Melbourne, Victoria winning
by eight wickets. Not count-
ing this 1956 game, 157 in all
have been played ; N.S.W. has
won 84, Victoria 70, with three
drawn.
Neil Harvey is now the only
one of the brothers in first-class
cricket. Ray—a year or two
back a likely Test-player, too —
has been discarded by the Vic-
torian selectors this season, and
now Mick, who’s been having
a very lean run, has been
dropped from Queensland to
play Victoria. Neil, however, by
the looks of things, will be a
fixture for some time; he fol-
lowed his masterly 147 against
SA. with a century, albeit with
its patches of doubt, against
N.S.W. lan Johnson thinks the
coming tour of England will
confirm that Neil Harvey is the
greatest batsman in the world
now playing.
“A.L.D.”: Besides being a
brilliant batsman, J. M.
(“Johnny”) Taylor was a fine
Rugby Union player. He repre-
sented N.S.W. in two of the four
Tests against the visiting 1922
Maori side, playing five-eighth in
one, and as a threequarter in the
other. Rugby Union was con-
fined to N.S.W. at the time,
otherwise he might have joined
the select few who have played
for Australia in both cricket and
Rugby.
* * *
One of the best games of
tennis seen in Australia for a
long time was the Hoad-Rose
quarter-final of the national
titles, at Milton courts, Bris-
bane. At two sets each, Rose
led 5-3 in the fifth set, with his
service to follow; it looked as
if he would have his first win
over Hoad. But Hoad fought
back brilliantly, and won, with
Rose by no means disgraced.
Rose was 1954 Australian
champion, but Hoad did not
play in the titles that year.
Mrs. Thelma Long had a
remarkable run through to the
final of the women’s title.
Against Beth Jones she had to
save seven match-points. In her
semi-final, against Mrs. Hawton,
she lost the first nine games
straight! Then, in a peculiar
reversal, she won the following
nine.
* * *
“Keima”: Queensland has the
two topnotchers in one sport at
least, endurance ball-punching—
if it is a sport. Last year Ron
Ruenalf had three tries at passing
the then record of 124 hrs. 20min.
At the second attempt he only
failed by an hour or so; at the
third he made a new record of
127 hrs. 20min. Now another
Bananalander, Neil Flanagan, has
punched continuously for 128 hrs.
20min. Ruenalf, who must like
this sort of thing or is just a
glutton for punishment (inci-
dentally, his father also once
held this punching-record), says
he’s going to have another crack.
* * *
“Roscoe”: When Victorian
yachtsman Jock Sturrock arrived
at St. Kilda for the State cham-
pionships, he found there was no
opposition for his new 5.5-metre
yacht Buraddoo. There is no
other 5.5-metre yacht racing in
Victoria at the moment. Sturrock
sailed for Australia at the 1948
London and 1952 Helsinki
Olympiads, and hopes to sail
Buraddoo in this year’s Olympics.
* * *
Bantam champs of their home
States, Johnny Jarrett (N.S.W.)
and Young Regan (Vic.) met
at Leichhardt, and Ambrose
Palmer’s protdge, Regan (8.8),
went pretty good for a bit, win-
ning round-one from end to
end per straight lefts to the
Jarrett dial. Then Jarrett
(8.61) steadied the canter, and a
left dropped Regan early in the
third. Regan was floored again
just before the bell, and after
he was knocked down for the
fourth time early in round-four
ref. Vic. Patrick declared for
Jarrett on a t.k.o. Claimant of
the Austrian welterweight
championship, Darak Alexander
(10.8) was going fairly well
against Jackie Vincent (10.12) in
an eight-round support when
his left eye ran into something
it didn’t care for in round-two
and retired from the event,
taking Darak with it.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin* to
be posted weekly to—-
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
‘The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £3/19/*
■ . -
Please add exchange to country chequet
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
BRISBANE WOOL FESTIVAL
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
sponsored by “Queensland Country Life”
Newspaper Pty. Ltd.
Maximum of 3000 words with background of some
aspect of Wool Industry, preferably life on a sheep
station. Prize for the winning entry will be 25 gns.
An additional 25 gns. will be awarded at the
discretion of the judges if other entries merit it.
Entries close on February 29. Results will be
announced during the Wool Festival to be held in
Brisbane from March 1 1 to 1 7.
Entry forms obtainable from —
“Queensland Country Life,” Box 71 IK, G.P.0.,
Brisbane; or
The Wool Festival Committee, C/o Chamber of
Manufactures, 74 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Involuntary Adventurer
The Wandering Scot
of Hunter’s Hill
By IAIN McDOUGALL
THOMAS MUIR, advocate,
of Glasgow and Edin-
burgh, who gave the
peaceful Sydney suburb of
Hunter’s Hill its name, had an
action-packed, fiVe-year Odyssey
that fiction can scarcely outdo.
Muir left the Land o’ Cakes
reluctantly, as a Government-
passenger on His Majesty’s
transport Surprise, bound for
Botany Bay. An active liberal,
he was a political criminal. He
was charged with sedition at
Edinburgh in 1793, at a time
when the Pitt Ministry, under the
terrifying influence of the French
Revolution, regarded anyone
with advanced liberal sentiments
as a potential Robespierre.
Muir was one of a number of
Scots tried for this offence.
Bom in Glasgow in 1765 of
well-to-do parents, he studied for
the Kirk at Glasgow University,
but decided, instead, to embrace
the law. It was while he was
studying law under two advanced
thinkers, Professors John Millar
and John Anderson, that he
imbibed the liberal principles
which were to land him" in
trouble.
On beginning practice at the
Edinburgh Bar in 1787 the
young advocate divided his time
between the law-courts and the
political platform, whence he
advocated economic reforms
that were regarded by the gov-
erning party as little less than
revolutionary, although the first
half of the approaching century
was to see them incorporated in
the law of the land.
In 1792 Muir and some
kindred spirits formed an
organisation wordily entitled
The Friends of the Constitution
and of the People, and, as a
result of his speeches to this
body, the authorities decided to
bring him to trial on the sedition
charge.
Although it is popular for
historians, and even present-day
self-styled progressives, to decry
the actions of Pitt’s Ministry in
the years immediately following
the French Revolution, there is
another side to the picture. The
guillotine had done its- deadfy
work with the French aristo-
cracy and middle-class, and
those who deliberately aroused
revolutionary sentiments in
Britain must have realised that
they did so at their peril.
As it was, the Pitt Adminis-
tration was lenient to the point
I of weakness, considering the
bloody scenes enacted in the
Place de la Revolution. Ander-
son, Muir’s law-professor, had
journeyed to Paris at the height
of the Terror and offered the
National Convention the model
of a new; type of gun he had
invented. He was never
prosecuted.
Robbie Burns himself was
lucky to escape indictment; in
a moment of revolutionary
enthusiasm and temporary afflu-
ence (he had just received his
share of the sale of a captured
smuggling-craft) the Poet of
Nature ordered four small
cannon and consigned them to
the Convention in Paris. They
were intercepted and confiscated
at Dover, and Burns, no doubt
because of the influence of his
English admirers, was merely
admonished, and was even per-
mitted to retain his Government
post with the Excise.
Muir was less fortunate. On
his appearance before the High
Court at Edinburgh he was re-
leased on bail and ordered to
appear when summoned. He
foolishly crossed over to France,
and while he was there war
broke out. *
On February 25, 1793, the
Lord Advocate cited Muir to
appear before the court, and
when, as the cunning old prose-
cutor intended, it became known
that the defendant was in enemy
territory, his case suffered
accordingly.
Muir, however, had no inten-
tion of dodging the issue, and
returned to Scotland as soon as
he was able to get a passage on a
neutral ship. He arrived home
in August, was duly arrested,
and stood trial at Edinburgh on
August 30.
Although offered the services
of the famous Scots advocate
Erskine, he elected to conduct
his own defence, which he did
with skill, concluding with a
speech that began at 10 p.m. on
Friday and lasted, with inter-
missions, until 2 a.m. on Satur-
day, a performance which
almost .excuses the jury for
bringing in a verdict of guilty.
The sentence was transporta-
tion for 14 years, on pain of
death if he returned beforehand.
Addressing the court with the
dignity that had characterised
his defence throughout, Muir
justified his conduct, and denied
that he was an enemy of his
country.
“My mind tells me that I have
acted according to my con-
science,” he told the panel of
judges, “and that I am engaged
in a good, just and glorious
cause —a cause which, sooner or
later, must and will prevail, and,
by a timely reform, save this
country from destruction.”
The sentence passed on Muir
I and similar sentences passed on
Palmer, an Ulster clergyman,
and Skirving and Gerald, two
other Scots, were brought before
the notice of the Lords and
Commons by such liberal-
minded members as Richard
Brinsley Sheridan, the Earl of
Stanhope and Lord Lauderdale,
but the Government refused to
act, and the sentences stood.
Until they were shipped
aboard the Surprise the political
martyrs, as they were styled by
their somewhat chastened sup-
porters, were kept in irons on
the hulks at Woolwich. Shortly
before sailing-time the young
Edinburgh lawyer (he was 28),
boarded the transport in com-
pany 'with almost a hundred
hardened criminals, many of
whom had only been respited
from the gallows because of the
success of Sir Joseph Banks’s
experimental prison-colony at
Sydney Cove.
As soon as the Surprise put to
sea, however, the ship’s officers
removed the political prisoners
from the convicts’ quarters, and
they made the voyage under
passenger-conditions, as far as
the poor little Surprise was able
to supply them.
In Sydney they were wel-
comed almost as honored guests
by Governor Hunter, a fellow-
Scot, and Muir was permitted
to buy an estate which he named
Hunter’s Hill after his father’s
property situated between
Kirkintilloch and Glasgow.
Palmer died soon after arrival;
Gerald had a small farm where
Sydney’s Botanic Gardens are
now.
Up to this point there is noth-
ing very unusual about Muir’s
experience. Political prisoners
were no rarity in Sydney town,
especially after the Irish Rebel-
lion of ’9B, and had things
turned out differently Muir
might have settled permanently
in New South Wales and left the
mark of his ability on the infant
colony.
The factor that cancelled-out
this possibility was the interest
taken in Muir’s case by too other
than George Washington.
Washington had followed
Muir’s case closely, and when
reports from Governor Hunter
appeared in print, extolling the
character and conduct of the
young Scots liberal, Washing-
ton decided to rescue him and
invite him to become a citizen
of the United States.
The small American ship Otter
therefore left Boston late in
1795, ostensibly to trade, under
the command of Captain Dawes.
Arrived at Port Jackson, Dawes
delivered personal messages
from Washington, took Muir
aboard, and set sail on February
11, 1796.
Ever a stickler for doing
things properly, Muir permed a
note to Hunter thanking him for
his kindness, and left it with a
fiiend to deliver at Government
House after the Otter was
beyond pursuit. Then, with his
clothes, Bible and a few personal
belongings, he placed himself at
the disposal of Captain Dawes.
Like Sinbad, Muir was headed
for adventures of which he little
dreamt when the Otter cleared
Sydney Heads that summer
morning more than a century
and a half ago. Sailing along
the coast of California, then
almost uninhabited except for
scattered Spanish settlements,
the little ship struck a sub-
merged rock, and all but Muir
and two sailors were drowned.
The three men, none of whom
knew anything of the country,
made inland and were found by
friendly Indians. The sailors
were not averse from eating the
lotus under these conditions, but
Muir, impatient to get back to
civilisation and support the
cause of liberalism under the
Stars and Stripes, separated from
his companions and eventually
reached a Spanish settlement.
He went |py sea to Havana,
where he hoped to pick-up an
American ship, but the Gov-
ernor of Cuba, learning that
Muir was a republican and an
avowed enemy of Constitutional
monarchy, imprisoned him and
finally shipped him off to Spain,
passing the problem of his
eventual disposal to someone
higher up, in typical Spanish
fashion.
Muir was placed on board the
treasure-ship Ninfa, signed-on
as an ordinary seaman, and
with a frigate, the Santa Helena,
as consort, the Ninfa sailed for
Cadiz, carrying Muir on another
stage of his fantastic journey
around the world.
Britain was at war with
Spain, and when, on April 26,
1797, the Ninfa and Santa
Helena arrived off Cadiz after a
fast passage across the Atlantic
they ran into two stoutly-armed
British men-o’-war, the Irresist-
ible, a 74-gun ship of the line,
and the Emerald, frigate, 34
guns, part of the squadron of
the newly-created Earl of
St. Vincent. v
After a warm set-to lasting
several hours, the Spanish ships
struck their flags to the heavier
British force. The captain of.
the Santa Helena then cut his
cable and drifted ashore, where
most of his crew escaped, but
the ship had been badly holed
and sank.
The Ninfa, on board which
was Muir, was captured pretty
well intact, treasure and all, and
was later taken into the Royal
Navy as H.M.S. Hamadryad.
Muir had been badly wounded
in the head' during the action,
and fortunately for him he was
not recognised as the escapee
from Sydney whose story had
appeared in the London news-
papers. Under a flag of truce
he was sent ashore to Cadiz witn
other wounded prisoners in the
belief that he was a Spam ii
sailor.
For two months Muir lay in
hospital in Cadiz, his wounds
so bad that he never recovered
his health. In fact, he had only
a few months of life left to him.
Those months, however, were
enough to enable him to com-
plete his saga, and to spend what
was left of his life beneath a flag
which he considered a flag of
freedom.
When his identity was dis-
covered at Cadiz, the French
Government, allied to Spain in
the war with Britain, sent a
special emissary to Madrid with
instructions to bring Muir to
Paris as soon as his wounds
permitted.
Thomas Paine and other
Americans living in France were
among the crowd that welcomed
the battered Scot at Bordeaux in
December, 1797. There a
banquet was held to salute “a
brave Scottish advocate of
liberty, now an adopted citizen
of France,” to quote the words
of the Mayor of Bordeaux, who
proposed the toast to the guest-
of-honor.
Five-hundred adherents of
republicanism were present at
the banquet; but Muir, after all
his travels and tribulations, col-
lapsed into the arms of the
United States Consul when he
rose to respond to the toast.
It was some time before he
was well enough to continue the
trip to Paris, and almost the first
act of the meticulous Scot was
to pen a letter to the Directory,
thanking them for their efforts
to restore his liberty.
“To you I owe my liberty,” he
wrote to them. TTo you I also
owe my life, but there are other
considerations of infinitely
superior importance, and which
ought to make a forcible impres-
sion on my mind. Your ener-
getic conduct has saved the
liberty not only of France, but
also will secure that of my
country, and of every other
nation in the world at present
groaning under oppression.”
His residence in his adopted
country lasted only until the
following September, less than
a year. He died at Chantilly
almost five years from the day
when he boarded the Surprise
for Sydney.
Perhaps it was as well. His
sincerity was spared the shock
of Napoleon’s grandiose schemes
for world conquest, and the
final debacle of Waterloo.


\\ i /
•:<<«
/ /\ \ v
5
K ERGSENfc
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Regd.
irons
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OROUTOF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. SURPLUSES
“The surpluses have mainly
accumulated since then because,
while farm-production elsewhere
has recovered, price-supports in
America itself have been kept
at a high level. But three
attempts have already .been made
to deal with the situation. All
along, acreage - control has
accompanied price - supports ;
in the last two years the acreage
under cotton has been reduced
first by 22 per cent, and then by
14 per cent.
“This attempt to stop the rise
in production has been frus-
trated by increasing yields and
a series of good seasons. After
this a reduction in price-supports
was tried: the so-called ‘flexible
system. 5 But though prices to
the consumer have fallen this
year, production has continued
to rise. Finally, persistent, and
generous, attempts have been
made to give away the surpluses
or to sell them on special
terms.
“The difficulty here is that
other producers, in Canada, in
New Zealand and elsewhere,
have protested against what
comes perilously near to ‘dump-
ing.’ Except where distress or
disaster was being relieved, the
programme has had *to be de-
veloped with caution. In any
event, it could not deal with the
problem on a sufficient scale.”
London “Financial Times”
reduces President Eisenhower’s
approach to the .problem to
“two fronts” :
“At home he plans to put the
land to its real economic use and
to put an end to the old diffi-
culty that has always vitiated
previous attempts at a cure —
the diversion of land taken from
one crop to the production of
another.
“Abroad, while continuing all
the existing plans for disposing
of surplus stocks, whether for
local currencies or by barter
for non - perishable strategic
materials, he appears to accept
the possibility that some part of
the surpluses could also be made
available to Iron Curtain coun-
tries. This alone can be the
inference to be drawn from his
request for the repeal of existing
legislation which permits the
TTNCLE SAM’S problem of
farm-surpluses has so many
aspects that it is difficult to reduce
it to simple terms. To humani-
tarians, for instance, it seems in-
credible that, with part of the
world starving and more of it
underfed, U.S. President Eisen-
hower should propose restricting
acreage and production. To
economists, it seems equally in-
credible that, with over 12
months’ supply of the main
crops in store and unsold, the
U.S. Government should en-
courage still more surpluses by
generous Government subsidies.
The puzzle for the American
farmer is that his income should
be dropping in a country which,
as New York “Herald Tribune”
notes, “knows a prosperity
greater than it has ever enjoyed
before.”
To the American politician,
the problem in bald political
terms is that the American
farmer casts a disproportionately
powerful vote in a Presidential
election —the farmbelt States of
Illinois, lowa, Minnesota, Ohio,
Wisconsin, Missouri, Michigan
and Indiana cast 131 electoral
votes, and, comments “U.S.
News and World Report,” “if
the Democratic candidate should
win a substantial number of
these votes and add them to the
normal Democratic total in the
South, he would be within
striking-distance of winning. It
happened that way in 1948.”
On the international scene, a
sudden unloading of American
surpluses could upend world
markets, with all sorts of con-
sequent difficulties for Uncle
Sam’s foreign policy.
Summarising the situation,
London “Daily Telegraph” com-
ments that “if there is a lunacy
about, it is in the situation with
which the [U.S.] Administration
is faced”:
“Since about 1940 American
farm-production has risen by
nearly a half. At the same
time the proportion of the labor-
force employed on the farms has
dropped from 20 to 13 per cent.
In the immediate post-war years
it was this miracle of production
and productivity which made
the Marshall Plan possible.
U.S. Government to dispose of
surplus food- and fibre-stocks
‘to friendly nations only.’ ”
On the home-front the pro-
posal is to start vyhat is
popularly called a “soil-bank” —
that is, for the Government to
take certain areas out of pro-
duction and compensate the
farmers accordingly.
“The idea,” explains “U.S.
News and World Report,” “is to
have the Government rent part
of each farm and retire the
rented acres from production —
put them in a soil-bank. These
idle acres could not be used,
even for pasturing livestock or
making hay. Amount of rental-
payments to farmers could reach
$lOOO million a year or more.
“Plans now shaping, with
strong political support, are to
apply the soil-bank idea as an
addition to farm-programmes
London “Daily Express”
PROGRESS
currently in operation. Before
present control - programmes
went into effect the operator of
a typical 220-acre cornbelt
farm planted, on the average,
about 100 acres of corn and 30
acres of wheat. His total of 220
acres was rounded-out with other
crops.
“Under the present pro-
gramme to curb surpluses, the
farmer must cut his corn-
acreage by about one-sixth and
his wheat-acreage by about one-
third. This means taking 16
acres out of corn and 10 acres
out of wheat, a total of 26 acres.
“But the farmer, like any
manufacturer, doesn’t want to
let part of his plant lie idle. So
he shifts the 26 acres taken out
of wheat and corn into crops on
which there are no acreage
curbs. As a result, surpluses are
building-up in virtually every
crop that farmers produce.
“The soil - bank proposal
enters at this point. The plan,
according to its advocates, would
halt the build-up of surpluses by
keeping the acres diverted from
wheat and corn completely out
of production.
“These diverted, ‘surplus’
acres would be planted to grasses
and soil-building plants, such as
clover and alfalfa. Fertility
would be ‘banked’ in the soil.
Present soil-conservation pay-
ments would help pay the cost
of planting this soil-bank. The
bank would be fenced-off,
literally, from the rest of the
farm, so that no livestock could
graze on it. Even if the farmer
were short of feed he could not
go on to these idle acres to cut
hay.
“In return for establishing this
soil-bank, the farmer would get
a payment of so much an acre,
direct from the Government.
This would prevent his income
from dropping as a result of the
cutback in production caused
by keeping the diverted acres
idle.
“Farm - income would be
bolstered further, say those who
are pushing the plan, by the fact
that price-depressing surpluses
would be cut down, thus boost-
ing prices in farm-markets.”
Critics of the soil-bank idea,
“U.S. News and World Report”
adds, “say that its ability to curb
surpluses has been oversold.
They maintain that farmers will
produce about as much on fewer
acres, by retiring their poor land
to the soil-bank and giving their
good land more attention and
fertiliser.
“These critics say the soil-
bank idea is nothing more than
a refinement of a New Deal
farm-plan of the 1936-38 period,
under which farmers were paid
by the Government to put land
into soil - conserving crops.
During that period, crop-produc-
tion figures show, supplies of
wheat and cotton increased.
“Advocates of today’s soil-
bank plan say, however, that it
has been improved in that the
acres taken out of production
must be kept completely idle.
The president of the lowa Farm
Bureau Federation concedes that
farmers would step-up produc-
tion per acre. However, in his
opinion, if 20 per cent, of the
nation’s crop-land were put in
the soil-bank, there would be
a 10 per cent, cutback in farrri-
production over a three-year
period. This, he feels, would
give the Government time to get
the surplus stockpile down to
manageable size.”
sional Tories’ protective instinct
toward their leader.”
London “Time and Tide,”
noting that in party politics the
horizon is generally rosiest just
before an election and gloomiest
in the months immediately after-
wards, comments:
“In our view, the likelihood
of a storm bursting—let alone
washing Sir Anthony out of
Downing-street and into an
earldom—is extremely small.
“To what has the campaign
against him, in fact, amounted?
A leader or two in the ‘Daily
Mail’ and the ‘Evening News’
attacking the Government’s
Middle East policy may have
provided the first spark. But
on the Middle East this Govern-
ment, like its predecessors'over
12 years and mori, is at its most
vulnerable: and ‘Time and
Tide’ has never ceased—and
Anti-Eden Moves
It has been suggested by some
London papers, notably “a
political correspondent” of the
“Observer,” that the short, sharp
burst of press-fire to which the
British Prime Minister was lately
subjected has only temporarily
abated, and that, although peace
and unity reign on the Conserva-
tive surface, “vigorous tunnel-
ling” will continue underground
and possibly explode later in the
-year.
Be that as it may, papers like
London “Economist” and “Time
and Tide” take a less drastic
view of the affair, without dis-
counting it entirely. “It all
seems to have been done with
mirrors,” comments the
“Economist”:
“A number of journalists and
politicians, belonging to the
Right rather than the Left in
Conservative politics, magnified
their own criticisms of the Gov-
ernment into the suggestion that
a major current of discontent
against the Prime Minister was
pulsing through Conservative
supporters in the country. Sir
Anthony’s instinctive opponents
in the press—from ‘Punch’ to
the ‘Daily Mirror’ —utilised the
opportunity to renew their own
bitter attacks upon him ; and the
‘People’ utilised it to publish a
story that Sir Anthony might be
displaced by Mr. Butler in a
few months’ time.
“The real danger of this pre-
mature insurrection is that it
may have an effect quite
opposite to that which its
originators intended: it may
strengthen Sir Anthony’s hand
to be a weak Prime Minister.
To understand this, one has only
to try to gauge the reaction of
the great majority of Conserva-
tive M.P.s to this ‘disloyalty.’
Many of them will come back
to Westminster convinced that
part of the blame has lain with
certain of their fellows who were
personally disappointed in Sir
Anthony’s recent Cabinet re-
shuffle ; and even the most
cursory reading of the critical
articles that have appeared is
likely to strengthen the profes-
certainly will not cease—from
being extremely critical of a
course of conduct so-prejudicial
to the abiding interests of Britain
and the Commonwealth.
“But this specific point of
disagreement, important though
it may be, has never been
regarded as an occasion for a
personal attack of the violence
and viciousness that has lately
been witnessed.
“The ‘Daily Telegraph’ with-
out doubt has found formidable
points of disagreement with the
Prime Minister, and has
launched an open—and vigorous
—assault on him.
“For the rest, there is the
frothy exploitation of these dis-
agreements by those who detest
the Prime Minister, the Govern-
ment and all their works. Who
on earth would expect Sir
Anthony or any of his advisers
to take seriously the admonition
of the ‘Sunday Pictorial’?
“Some sense of proportion is
required in assessing the worth
of the ‘Eden-Must-Go’ cam-
paign. Short memories in
politics are now fashionable;
but over the past half-century
there has seldom been a time
when some faction or another
was not shouting that the Prime
Minister of the day must go.
One Balfour bowed to the
clamor; and, as an immediate
consequence, his party went
down to unprecedented electoral
disaster and wild revolutionaries
like Asquith, Morley and the
young Winston Churchill were
projected into office.
“Baldwin was under fire for
five years. He had an almost
infinite capacity for tolerating


Australia's most modem engineering
FORDSON MAJOR HAS MORE
FARM-RIGHT FEATURES
THAN ANY OTHER TRACTOR
Australia's lowest price
PER UNIT OF DRAWBAR OR BELT H.P.
FORDSON MAJOR IS THE LOWEST PRICED
DIESEL POWERED TRACTOR
r
m
sr
When you use Fordson Major, power-farming has
a wider scope and lower costs* Your Fordson Dealer
will arrange a work-test on your property*
NOT TOO BIG—NOT TOO SMALL.
Fordson Major is right for broadacre
or small farm alike. Its engineering is
absolutely practical, its power is
absolutely adequate and its versatility
is absolutely time and labour-saving.
Its price, low running costs and the
availability of service and genuine
parts combine to mean both lower
capital investment and lower upkeep.
That is the kind of power-farming
equipment you need for it means
profit to you.
HYDRAULICS-WITH NEW MEANING
Fordson Major’s “touch-control”
hydraulics and a range of
tillage implements and many-job
equipment matched to this completely
modem system of one-man operation
—mean power farming in its newest,
most labour-saving form. Available,
too, is Fordson’s NEW Remote
Control Kit which, in implements or
equipment where remote hydraulic
control can be used, applies it whether
the unit is mounted or trailing.
EEEEii
£lO9l
complete and including:
• 2 Speed Belt Pulley • Power Take
Off • Electric Lighting and Starting
Equipment • Tachourmeter
TYRES: 14 x 28. 6 ply, rear 7.50
x 16, 6 ply, front.
Optional equipment extra:
Hydraulic Lift, 3-point Linkage £76
Hydraulic Remote Control Kit
(SAE./ASAE Standard) £73. Raised
Power Take off Assembly £3O
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plants.
Uses all your existing equipment
With power aplenty at the drawbar,
Fordson Major handles everything
from big multiple discs to headers.
FORD MOTOR 'COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMI2O-40
Your Fordson Dealer
can supply a full
range of
implements and
farm equipment
for every usage.
Australia’s greatest name in modern, low-cost power-farming
I
Your Fordson Dealer will give you further details.
LISTEN TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY OF THE 6S STATIONS IN THE NATION-WIQt WEEKLY BROADCAST.
—though not for disregarding—
opposition, both external and
internal. When he decided to
hit back, as he did in his remark-
able observation about the
press-lords, he left his enemies
smarting and discomfited.
“Churchill at the height of his
power was never for an instant
free of the same captious and
irresponsible criticism, not only
from Mr. Bevan in his role as
an inspired military strategist
but from many members of the
party which had elected him its
leader and was nominally
pledged to give him undeviating
support. After the fall of
Singapore and in the testing
months before what he himself
described as ‘the end of the
beginning,’ the mutters and
hisses made a loud and ugly
chorus, which only died away
in the thunder of victory.
“Similarly during this second
Administration, almost from the
outset, the clever boys, the
know-alls and the malice-
purveying gossips were con-
vinced that ‘The Old Man had
had it.’
“There it is: the ‘He-Must-
Go’ campaign is an occupational
risk to be faced by Prime
Ministers in our age. There are
other responsibilities which are
a good deal more arduous
attached to the office: there are
greater challenges and greater
risks. If Sir Anthony Eden can
face and master these, he can
afford to snap ffis fingers at his
present gaggle of attackers.”
"Red Tapestry"
London “Sunday Times”
declares Australia as the winner
of “the Red Tape stakes for
1955,” and there wouldn’t seem
to be much ground for a
protest.
An Australian bookseller who
ordered two small display-racks
from a London firm, Back-
ground Books, received the
following bill when he took
delivery of them:
s. d.
Duty 6 2
Wharfage and Entry .. .. 6 2
Cartage 12 6
Customs Entries 10 6
Stacking 6
Sight Entry 10 6
Cooperage 10 6
Wharf Storage 10
Bond charges .. .... ..21 4
Agency Attendance 21 4
Department of Agriculture fees 1 0
£5 1 6
The “Sunday Times” adds
that “the mysterious ‘cooperage’
charge was for opening and re-
packing so that the wooden
racks could be declared ‘free
from borer’ ”:
“The Department of Agricul-
ture fee was for inspection for
this purpose. The charges
mounted because of delay in
issuing the import-licence, so
that the bookseller was incurring
bond-charges while waiting.”
More Megatons
Both Britain and America are
scheduled to explode nuclear
bombs in the near future, the
American sample being
described as the biggest bomb
the world has so far seen.
Referring to “talks of thermo-
nuclear weapons with an
explosive power of 50,000,000
tons of T.N.T.,” “Manchester
Guardian” comments that
“things have changed since
Hiroshima”:
“That first bomb was equiva-
lent to 20,000 tons of ordinary
explosive. The one the Ameri-
cans exploded at Bikini in 1954
was roughly a thousand times
bigger. Its equivalent in con-
ventional explosive would fill
something like 20,000 goods-
trains of .50 large railway-
wagons each. The bombs the
Americans are now talking
about would need at least twice
as many wagons.
“At Hiroshima there was
complete destruction within a
radius of roughly a mile from
the point of explosion. At
Bikini, according to the official
gSjSSSs
which have been aone since turn
out to be correct, the Bikini
bomb (a 20-megaton bomb)
would have destroyed almost
everything within 10 miles.
“The bomb they are now
talking abo”t would do this
within 13 or 14 miles."
Wool-prices
D nf a “Wool Pernrd"
*f o £ at Ausfralifn and
S° lth g Af ~l nn wnXrnwers are
haonv about P Sadds
£ t SS e tS of price-
schemed than atTny
dnee Austria thmw out
.. t j 0 j nt Organisation plan
• iq?1”• ° 1U S P
m «of course the growers are
, . UI C0UI ? e > me growers are
fanng much worse now than
thgy werg then> when the world
was us j ng woo i mo re swiftly
than it could be prod uced, the
auc tion-system was giving the
grower the best possible price,
and t he threat from the syn-
thetics had scarcely materialised,
“How different is the situation
today Australia is selling more
, tb ever but getting less
Tl Irft
with h 'jah production-costs from
the boom period and are said
tQ bg on tbe ‘bread-and-butter
j eyeb ' Some of them are
ESr ~ ~
tong periods. . , . ,
The growers are faced with
increasing price - competition
from the new man-made fibres,
which, we may be sure, will seek
to secure a price-advantage over
wool. Yet only New Zealand
has a price-support scheme to
help its growers in time of need,
“The producers o£ Australia
and South Africa preferred not
to put anything by for the
f uture - The choice was only
concern-but, if it is
proving an unwise one, nothing
will b ® gained by V; ymg t 0 pm
the blam f. ° n u the . aucdon “
system, which has given them
golden dividends since 1946.
Soviet and U.S.
Farmers
The visit of a Soviet farm-
delegation to the U.S. to study
American farming methods, par-
ticularly in the rich corn- and
hog-raising State of lowa, was
followed by a long silence from
Moscow, the difficulty appar-
ently being to recognise the
Americans’ prosperity and effi-
cjency without collecting it
with the “capitalist” way of life,
The silence has at last been
broken with what “New York
Times” describes as a comprom-
ise solution “technical prac-
tices of American farmers, par-
ticularly of corn-hog farmers in
lowa, are being praised and their
emulation in Russia is being
urged”:
“But the profit-motive and the
system of private farming, which
lie behind the productivity of
our commercial farms, are not
being given their due. Instead,
the once-amiable Mr. Matske-
vitch, who headed the visiting
group here [in the U.S.], now
writes in ‘Pravda’ about the ruin
and destruction of small farmers
in this country, shedding
crocodile-tears over their fate.
“But such propaganda-
handling of the American farm-
scene does not solve the basic
dilemma of the Soviet farm-
managers. No doubt adoption
of American techniques can
raise Soviet farm-production to
some extent. But techniques
alone do not bring forth rich
crops. The American farmer
raises rich crops because he
knows he works for himself.”
Various Voices
Mr. Dulles: “We can succeed,
not by outbidding Communism
in sheer amounts of economib
aid, but by making newly-
independent and newly-articulate
peoples feel that they can best
satisfy their wants by becoming
and remaining part of the com-
munity of free nations. We are
in a contest in the field of eco-
nomic development of under-
developed countries which is bit-
terly competitive. Defeat in this
contest could be as disastrous as
defeat in an prmaments-race.”
* * *
Professor Gilbert Murray:
“This modern cry for equality,
that no nations are inferior and
all are equal, is one view, but in
my opinion it is wrong. The
other view is that there are
weaker nations and that their
welfare and progress is a sacred
trust for civilisation.”
* * *
' Britain’s new Astronomer
Royal, Professor Woolley: “If
the next war could be won by the
first chap getting to the moon,
and by that alone, some nation
might put up the enormous
amount required. I cannot give
any idea how much it would cost,
but it would be a very large sum
indeed.”
* * *
Sir Anthony Eden: “We are
told that we [Britain] are the
wicked colonialist in Asia, and we
are told that Communism is the
liberator. Is that really true any-
where on this earth today? Has
it really been true at any time
since the war? Where is there
freedom now at this moment? In
Hamburg or in Stettin? In Brus-
sels or in Warsaw? Or take the
East, in Colombo or in the capi-
tal of Outer Mongolia?”


9 ®
BELtS
<OO% SCOTCH WHISK'/J
Cumuo AND 8LtN0l»
\ iN SCOTLAND -
O, STILLERS hwm SCOTI^J
cstabushcd **
"Rooucr Of tc°n*
S m
ruM*
aa
Can you tell a ‘big 9
Scotch from a
‘small 9 Scotch?
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies—and 9.
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell&Som Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, ITire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street* Melbourne,
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITOHOOOK, Manager.
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
JACKSON £
OSUiMVAX
TRADE
MAW
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers* Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKB
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL", BRISBANE
“Give us a bit of room there,
Stan.” *
Stan moved away and com-
menced to roll a smoke.
Phil broke up a square foot
of the two-and-a-half-inch-metal,
exposing the sandstone-ballast
underneath and cleared it out.
Ritchie and the engineer
squatted on their haunches
again. The engineer broke off a
piece of sandstone and crumbled
it in his fingers. They spoke in
low tones and Ritchie nodded.
Hie engineer said to Phil, “I
want this whole patch dug out
to a depth of six-inches.”
Phil looked at him question-
ingly.
“We’ll have to get rid of that
dampness, otherwise you’ll be
doing the same job again very
shortly.”
“All right,” said Phil. “We’ll
need more ballast and two-and-
a-half-inch metal.”
“I’ll tell Jim,” said Ritchie.
“What time is it, Mr. Ritchie?”
Phil asked him.
Ritchie glanced at his watch.
“Ten-past-nine.”
Phil called over his shoulder,
“Time to boil the billy, Stan.”
Stan came to life and went
into the front garden of a near-by
house with the blackened billy-
can.
Ritchie pointed to the exposed
sandstone. “Dig out that ballast,
Phil.”
The pickhandle felt warm in
his hands and he realised that
they were clammy with sweat.
He was afraid now, afraid of
the mounting pain in his groin
and what it might mean, and to
overcome his fear he drove the
pick into the sandstone in a
calculated frenzy of activity,
oblivious of everything except
generating heat to subdue the
pain.
From a long way off he heard
the engineer say, “Make it a bit
wider than that.”
He stopped digging and looked
at the engineer with condescend-
ing tolerance. The engineer
returned his gaze steadily and
began to say something to him
with a quick movement of his
hand, but Phil cut him short with
the hint of a disdainful smile,
then went on working as before
as if the interruption had not
occurred.
Stan called out, “She’s boiled.”
Ritchie looked over at him
and said to Phil, “Break the rest
of that up first.”
He finished levelling the floor
of the excavation, then let the
pick slip between his fingers onto
the road.
Stan was waiting with his
shovel. “Have a blow, Phil,” he
said loudly, and started to throw
the rubble onto the road.
Phil walked away. He under-
stood Stan’s anxiety to be work-
ing while the bosses were present.
The flames spluttered in the
brazier and the faint aroma of
burning wood waft past his
nostrils. He could go that drink
of tea this morning. He really
needed it. He brushed his hand
gingerly across his stomach. The
area of pain seemed to have
spread.
Stan cleared out the hole and
the engineer said, “All right.
Keep it at that level' all the way.”
He walked back to the car.
“See you later, Phil,” said
Ritchie.
“Yes,” replied Phil cordially.
He looked hard at the back of
the departing engineer. “You
bloody pain-in-the-neck.”
pHIL took his sandwiches out
A of his overcoat pocket and
sat on the kerb. Stan poured him
a mug of tea and he sipped it.
“Who was that bloke?” asked
Stan.
“He must be the new engineer
I heard about.”
“He doesn’t muck around,
does he?”
Phil grunted. “O’Sullivan is
going to have more than that to
say about him when he hears
about this.”
He drew his knees up near his
chest and the pain eased off. He
took a bite from his sandwich
and it was like chewing a dry
ball of sawdust. He swallowed
it in a lump and threw the sand-
wich away. He proffered his
remaining sandwich to Stan.
“Want this?”
“Don’t you want it?”
“No. Feel a bit crook this
morning.”
Stan took the sandwich. “You
want to take it easy, Phil,” he
said lightly. “They don’t give
you any thanks for killing your-
self on this job.”
Phil looked sideways at him
and he was inclined to retort,
“You’ll never do that,” but his
only reply was a long, drawn-
out, “Yair.”
He gasped with shock the
moment he stood up. The only
relief he could get was to dig his
pick into the sandstone, then
straighten up quickly and as the
pain began to course into his
abdomen ; cut it off; bring the
pick down low.
Stan was dismayed at the pace
Phil was setting. For a while he
attempted to work non-stop like
Phil, but soon gave it up as being
hopeless and lapsed into his day-
dreaming work-routine.
He would frequently pause to
watch Phil, then he would glance
up and down the street for items
of diversion; finally, he would
look up at the sky dejectedly as
if appealing for a miracle from
Heaven, so that when he looked
down again the work would
all be done and he could just
stand with his back against the
wall, out of the wind, and wait
for the truck to come along to
take them back to the depot.
Now he saw Phil straighten up
and lean heavily on his pick.
Stan let his pick fall to the
ground and rolled a smoke.
“She’s pretty solid,” he com-
mented.
Phil ignored him. His breath
seared his lungs and his heart
pounded protestingly.
Stan tried again. “This is
taking longer than we thought.”
Phil looked away and cursed
him under his breath.
“You chaps have got a job on
there.”
They looked around to see an
elderly man rugged up in an
overcoat standing on the foot-
path.
“We’ll get through it,” Stan
assured him.
The wind whipped around the
elderly man’s trouser-legs and he
tried to snuggle deeper into his
overcoat. “It must be very un-
pleasant for you men to be work-
ing outside on a day like this?”
he queried in open admiration.
Stan shrugged. “It’s all right as
long as you keep at it. I wouldn’t
have anything else on now.”
“Oh? This isn’t your regular
occupation?”
“It wasn’t up till a few weeks
ago. No, I’ve been pushing a
pen all my life.”
The man looked incredulously
at the grey hair showing from
underneath Stan’s battered felt
hat.
“What? And you're doing this
type of work!”
“My oath! There’s nothing
like it.”
“But don’t you find it hard?”
“Oh, it gets hard now and
again, but you get used to it.”
The man looked at Stan
questioningly. “But surely you’d
be better off in an office?”
“Look,” Stan explained
patiently. “I could be getting
twenty-quid a week pushing a
pen right now, but I wouldn’t
have it on. You know why?”
He paused. “My health means
more to me than money. Work
inside? Not on your life! This
kind of work will do me.”
The conversation continued
along these lines for a few
minutes, then the elderly man
bade them good-morning and
went on his way.
CJTAN turned around to Phil
and said, “Retired, by the
looks of it. Probably spent his
life cooped up” Then his
voice trailed off when he saw the
expression on Phil’s face.
Instead of a sun-and-wind-
beaten tan, Phil’s leathery skin
was a deathly ashen grey. His
eyes glinted and his lips were
drawn back tightly against his
teeth ; Stan looked into a face
of loathing and hatred.
Phil’s throat was so contracted
with anger that when he spoke
the words came out in a deep
growl:
“When are you going to do
a bit?”
Stan looked at him in surprise
and colored. “Don’t you think
I’m doing a bit?”
Phil kept his voice steady with
an effort. “I’m damn’ sure
you’re not doing a bit. You
haven’t pulled your weight since
you came here. I’ve carried you
for a month and I’m getting
tired of it. You had plenty of
time to get used to the job”
“Wait a”
“Either you pull your bloody
weight or I tell O’Sullivan to put
you with someone else. Under-
stand?”
“Isn’t O’Sullivan the best judge
of that?”
“The best judge of what?”
“Wouldn’t he know whether
I’m pulling my weight or not?”
“How the hell would he
know?”
“Why wouldn’t he know?”
“Why?” Phil choked with rage.
“Why? Because every time
O’Sullivan comes around to look
at a job, you work like a son-
of-a-bitch. The minute he goes
you drop tools and I—me, the
mug—l have to carry you the
rest of the time”
“I haven’t noticed”
“You haven’t noticed. You’ve
been too busy noticing other
things. I’ve noticed. I’ve struck
blokes like you before. I’ve
worked in brick-pits, I’ve laid
sewer-pipes, I’ve lumped coal—
I know when a bloke’s poling
on a man. I’d tell ’em straight
like I’m telling you. Tve never
put a man in yet, but by jeeze,
if you don’t pull your weight
I’ll put you in. I’ll tell O’Sullivan
you’re no bloody good to me.”
Stan shrugged nonchalantly.
“You can tell him what you
like.” His voice was soft and
lacked conviction.
“All right. As long as you’ve
got that straight? . . . Let’s finish
this bloody thing.”
Phil attacked the sandstone-
ballast with fury and noted with
dim satisfaction that Stan was
working harder than he had ever
worked before.
The ballast was broken up and
Phil threw his pick aside. “Clear
that off.”
He walked over to the gutter
and sat on the kerb. He felt
sick. The pain in his groin was
like a hot steel glove with the
fingers clutching at his stomach
each time he gulped for air.
TTE rolled a cigarette and was
sitting there smoking it
when he turned his head and saw
Jim O’Sullivan, the ganger, walk-
ing down the street towards
them. He sat where he was and
the ganger walked past without
looking at him.
O’Sullivan stood watching
Stan clear out the excavation and
Phil came up behind him.
“Feel a bit crook in the guts,
Jim,” he explained.
O’Sullivan did not lift his head.
“So do I, Phil. So do I,” he
said dryly.
Phil saw what O’Sullivan saw
and could not mistake .the sar-
castic inference of his remark.
He asked stiffly, “Did the
engineer see you?”
O’Sullivan pondered his reply.
“Yes, Phil. He told me all about
it.” He had not dropped his sar-
castic tone. He went on, “I’ve
sent the truck for a load of stuff.”
He turned his head and looked
at Phil for the first time. “I
want this ready by the time it
gets here.”
“It’ll be ready,” Phil assured
him.
“Not if you’re sitting in the
gutter, Phil. You’ll never get it
ready that way.”
Then O’Sullivan walked back
up the street with his hands in
his pants pockets and his head
lowered into the biting wind.
Phil watched the ganger walk
away and the burning anger of
frustration and helplessness
welled within him to choke his
strangled oath, and he did not
know whether it was directed at
Stan or O’Sullivan or himself.
THE GREAT SCHISM
The sharp edge of the sea divides the sun;
How far, how far the long, long shadows run,
The black tide ebbs, the trolls and goblins flee
Before the regal glance of majesty.
There must be abdication now and laying
Down of a tyrant’s sceptre, and a staying
Of scarce-imagined cruelties, and paying
Of heaped-up debts and claims beyond disputing,
And a new lord striding in with drums and fluting,
And dreadful trumpets sounding out before
The new machines and phalanxes of war,
And new-found lands, and fearfully-peopled regions,
And trampling sciences in countless legions.
New heavenward flights, and falls, and new bonds
forging,
New passions hatching, growing, swelling, gorging,
While still the wraith of the old tyrant watches,
And here and there a vagrant fancy catches.
Collects a company of starveling souls
Who in his dark realm lurk and grub like moles,
A shred of darkness lingering on alone,
A shadow of the shadow of a throne.
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNIiOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
Sol
3
w
■>4T
V'S
*5?
&
JNsv
£g
ll*
Mci
y:
w*
"Zis
m
How paper protects our health
NE decisive weapon against the spread
disease and sickness in a community
is cleanliness. About three years ago, as a re-
sult of public demand, many Australian bread
manufacturers began wrapping bread. Before
long, A.P.M. Australian Paper Manufact-
urers Ltd.—developed a tough, hygienic
paper especially for this purpose. This paper
is waxed and printed by paper convertors
who then supply it to the bread trade.
As well as ensuring utmost cleanliness in
bread handling, paper-wrapped bread remains
fresher, so that it can be sliced for the
customers’ convenience and yet remain soft
and moist down to the last slice. Waste is
eliminated.
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds of paper and 140
kinds of paperboard*. These are made by
others into a great variety of finished pro-
ducts that make work easier, or reduce costs,
or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*Tbe term paperboard embraces cardboard , fibre-
board and other heavy weight papers. Basically
the same raw materials are used for paperboard
and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at: Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in
Victoria, Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Q’ld. (under construction).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of the Eternal Circle,
by C. J. Dennis. —6258.
Words of the old ballad “Mussel-
man’s Ride.” —6260.
Information Sought
A recipe for a good, inexpensive
fence-paint ?
A metal fence requires a primer
and a special paint, both suitable for
metal. A picket-fence or other good-
quality wooden fence, if new,
requires a primer followed by a good
oil-paint; old paint should be bumt-
off, and the fence repainted with an
oil-paint. For a secondary or paling-
fence, the following whitewash is
recommended: 2 pecks unslaked
lime, 1 peck common salt, 31b. rice-
flour, £lb. whiting, lib. clean glue
and sufficient water for the recipe.
Slake the lime in a vessel of about
lOgals. capacity, cover it, strain, and
add the salt previously dissolved in
hot water. Blend the rice-flour in
cold water and boil; soak the glue
in water and dissolve it over a water-
bath; add the whiting and sgals,
hot water to the mixture. Stir well,
cover from dust, and let stand for a
few days, when it will be ready for
use. It may be tinted any desired
color by the addition of dry-color
(from any paint-store). The mixture
should be applied hot: a small
quantity at a time can be carried from
a fire; or it may be worked from a
portable furnace.
*' * * *
(1) Was Bannister or Landy first to
break the “four-minute” mile ? (2)
What runners have now broken
Amin, for the mile? (3) Who now
holds the world-record? (4) Who
were some earlier mile-record holders
and their times?
(1) Roger Bannister was the first
to break the “four-minute” mile; on
May 6, 1954, in England, he ran
the mile in 3min. 59.45ec. (2) John
Landy, in Finland on June 21, 1954,
ran it in 3min. 58sec. At the Empire
Games in Vancouver (August, 1954)
Bannister won the mile in
3min. 58.85ec., with Landy, who
finished second to Bannister, taking
3min. 59.65ec. In England in May,
1955, in winning the British Games
mile, Hungarian Laszlo Tabori took
3min. 59sec., with placegetters Chris
Chataway and Brian Hewson both
clocking 3min. 59.8 sec. (3) Landy,
with his time of 3min. 58sec. (4) In
1924 the great Finnish distance-
runner Paavo Nurmi ran 4min.
10.45ec., a record which lasted till
1932, when Frenchman Jules
Ladoumegue took 4min. 9.2 sec. In
1933 New Zealander John Lovelock
clocked 4min. 7.65ec.; in 1934 an
American, Glen Cunningham, took
4min. 6.Bsec., and in 1937 Englishman
Sydney Wooderson cut the time to
4min. 6.4 sec. In 1938 Cunningham
clipped-off another 2sec. (4min.
4.45ec.), and in 1943 a Swede, Arne
Anderson, reduced the time to 4min.
2.65ec., then in 1944 cut it still
further, to 4min. I.6sec. In 1945
another Swede, Gundar Haegg, made
it 4min. I.4sec., the record till
Bannister’s run of 3min. 59.45ec.
• * * *
(1) What was “geopoliticsof
which General Karl Haushofer was
high-priest ? (2) What has become of
Haushofer ?
(1) The definition of geopolitics, as
given by “Zeitschrift fur Geopolitik”
(the official organ of Haushofer’s
Geopolitical Institute at Munich)
was—“ Geopolitics is the science of
the earth-relationships of political
process. It is based on the broad
foundations of geography, especially
on political geography, which is the
science of the political organisms in
space and their structure. Moreover,
geopolitics sets out to furnish the
tools for political action and the
directives for political life as a
whole. Thus geopolitics becomes an
art; namely, the art of guiding
practical politics. Geopolitics is the
geographic science of the State.” The
statements of purpose, descriptive
matter and definitions of geopolitics,
as can be seen from the quotation,
are all somewhat vague. Geopolitics
has a wide coverage—economics,
geography, psychology, anthropology,
biology, medicine and other sciences.
Haushofer, of course, did not “dis-
cover” geopolitics—the significance of
political geography has been realised
through the ages, by, among others,
Aristotle, Herodotus, Montesquieu,
Ranke, Buckle and Taine. In its
modern form it has accumulated a
respectable amount of scientific
material; Haushofer wrote several
books on his theories. It served in
Germany as a political , weapon of
National-Socialism. After the fall of
the Nazis, Haushofer, in a document
handed to Edmund A. Walsh (con-
sultant to the U.S. chief of counsel
at the Nuremburg trials in 1945 and
watch-dog to the Haushofer-case),
claimed that Hitler and his colleagues
had distorted the scientific and valid
part of his geographical theories, and
that what he had written after 1933
had been written under pressure.
Walsh, however, as he explains in his
Total Power, refused to accept this
repudiation, and it seems that
Haushofer must bear some of the
responsibility for Hitler’s acts of
aggression. (2) On March 10, 1946,
Haushofer and his wife committed
suicide by poisoning.
* * * *
(1) The new Test-record opening*
partnership of 413 in the fifth India-
N.Z. Test by Indian batsmen
Mankad and Roy was, it is said, the
seventh-highest opening-partnership in
first-class cricket. What are the
first six? (2) Previous-best Test
opening-partnership ?
(1) 555, by Holmes and Sutcliffe,
Yorkshire v. Essex, 1932; 554, by
Brown and Tunnicliffe, Yorkshire v. s
Derbyshire, 1898; 490, by Bowley
and John Langridge, Sussex v.
Middlesex, 1933 ; 456, by Ponsford
and Mayne, Victoria v. Queensland,
1923-24; 428, by Hobbs and Sand-
ham. Surrey v. Oxford University,
1926; 424, by Siedle and Nicolson,
Natal v. Orange Free State, 1926-27.
(2) 359, by Hutton and Washbrook,
England v. South Africa, 1948-49.
* * * *
(1) Some details of the largest
pipe-organ in the world? (2) Has it
any rivals in size? (3) How does
the Sydney Town Hall organ
compare?
(1) The world’s largest organ is
situated in the Convention Hall at
Atlantic City, New Jersey (U.S.A.).
It has seVen manual keyboards, two
pedal-keyboards, 1200 stops, and con-
tains a diaphone pedal-stop of 64ft.
pitch. Several of the tuba-stops
operate on 50-100 in. wind-pressure.
(2) Closest rival in size is the Grand
Court organ in the Wanamaker (Phila-
delphia) store. This instrument has
six manuals, 600-odd stops, and
30,000 pipes. Organs at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Westminster Abbey,
Liverpool Cathedral and King’s
College, Cambridge, are also sizeable
instruments. (3) Similarly, Sydney
Town Hall organ, of four manuals,
15,000 pipes, and containing a full-
length wooden 64ft. stop, is a big
organ.
.Brief Answers
A.M.: Free lessons in English are
available to all non-English-speaking
migrants upon application to the
Officer-in-Charge, University Branch
Office, Department of Education,
University Grounds, Sydney. The
inquirer may either (1) attend an
evening-class in English at Darling-
hurst Public School, Womerah-
avenue, Darlinghurst, or (2) if, for
any reason, unable to attend an
evening-class, may enrol as a
correspondence-student by applying
to the above address J.P.H.: (1)
Ezra Pound broadcast from Italy
during World War 11, and was later
accused of treason by the U.S.
Government. (2) He was declared
mentally unsound in 1946 and con-
fined in an asylum. (3) His Pisan
Cantos (Bollingen Prize, 1948) was
written while he was in the asylum;
while there, he also translated the
odes of Confucius... .K.C.8.: (1)
This is a misnomer: wine is the
fermented juice of the grape or,
occasionally, of other fruit. Unfer-
mented grape-juice can be obtained
from tlie Sanitarium Health Food
Co., Hunter-street, Sydney. (2) Vine-
yards and wineries in N.S.W. are
situated in (a) the Griffith district of
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area,
which produces, principally, sherries,
ports and muscats; ( b ) the Hunter
Valley, where they produce, almost
solely, the light table-wines such as
clarets, hocks, chablis, etc.; (c)
Corowa, extending over the N.S.W.-
Vic. border into Rutherglen and
Wahgunyah, where a full range of
wines is produced G.L.: (1) The
Crime Club is a Collins brainchild.
(2) On Dec. 1, 1955, 10 of the best
Crime Club novels to have appeared
since its inception 25 years ago were
published in Penguin-form to cele-
brate this silver jubilee. They are:
Murder in Mesopotamia, by Agatha
Christie; Surfeit of Lampreys, by
Ngaio Marsh; A Question of Proof,
by Nicholas Blake; Speak No Evil,
by M. G. Eberhart; The Cretan
Counterfeit, by Katherine Farrer;
The Wheel Spins, by Ethel Lina
White; The Black Stage, by Anthony
Gilbert; Over My Dead Body, by
Rex Stout; X v. Rex, by Phillip
MacDonald; Murder in Time, by
Elizabeth Ferrars.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
K.L.K.: Punch-drunk pugs who
make comebacks at that advanced
age are mere figments of the imagina-
tion.... N.S.: “Anxiously I await
your decision. Is it yes or is it no?”
It is no R.W.8.: It got away to
a bad beginning and barely lasted
the distance W.E.P.: Old Ben is
the tenth swagman to give up the
ghost this week S.H.J.: Told
“Fly Away Peter, Fly Away Paul” to
fly away home M.S.: Do you
really think that your bus-ride to
Palm Beach, however delightful it
may have been, would interest, say,
a pearl-diver at Broome? E. 8.:
Billy went into the basket weeks ago,
but the hikers who arrived last week
are now walking home G.H.P.:
Somehow we could not visualise that
matron of a country hospital running
a call-girl service as a sideline
A.L.W.: You are a trifle belated
with your poetic comment on
Petrov’s defection C.W.F.: Old
Ebenezer is much too garrulous for
our likii g P.8.C.: We gave up
counting the corpses after the third
page L.R.: No, we doubt whether
we would relish “a series of stories
sophisticated, serious and sensational
—all located in a nudist colony”
M.D.: Misunderstanding between
Georgiana and the time-payment
collector a little too sentimental for
our pages R.W.: Words! Words!
Words! Thousands of them—and
all amounting to so little F.R.:
When last seen the Religious Editor
was making a hasty „ exit from the
office with “The Gadding Widow”
on his arm.... 5.5.: Wealthy
squatter strolls into the saloon-bar of
a city pub and within 30-minutes he
and the most glamorous barmaid in
the establishment are headed for the
Barrier Reef!... .T.J.: Suburban
householder slays mother-in-law and
while burying her in backyard strikes
a gold - reef. N 0... .R.H.G.:
Received your three stories. Might
we remind you that Bulletin fiction
needs to be more than a mere
description of (1) a chess game, (2)
a round of golf, or (3) a billiards
tournament L. 8.: It was Frederick
Macartney, an occasional Bulletin
poet, who remarked long before you
did that “Love’s a hussy when you
know her”... The same old
wind sighing in the same old pine.
R.B.: Don’t tell us that those
two farmers are still brawling about
that broken fence while the son of
one and the daughter of the other
are courting on a fallen log by the
creek in the gully? ... .R.A.: Salt-
bush Bill belongs to “Banjo” Pater-
son for all time M. 8.: The dice
were loaded against you from the
moment you put the first word on
paper F.J.M.: Send it to a
periodical that caters for readers
who like yams about spaceships
P.X.O’G.: It is with great regret that
we can only print one stanza of your
“Native Stockman in the City”:
’Twas by the sea at Maroubra
That I met my darling lubra.
She wore a nylon slip and a new bra,
And on my head I had an Akubra.
R.M.G.: If we are inflicted with
any further instalments of “Uriah
Uttergloom, Undertaker,” we shall
put up the shutters and retire to
somewhere 1000 miles from Sydney,


The marking and tail-
ing of lambs and the
marking of 1 calves
takes place at a critical
period of their lives
when set-back can
have serious conse-
quences. All users
agree that the Elas-
trator Rubber Ring
method of marking
and tailing practically
eliminates set-back.
The prevention of this
evil gives the young
beasts the chance to
develop that prime
condition which is the
objective of every
stock owner and
breeder.
LYS
proof
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
, - , mvmmm
vj *<&,/ ,'Jfy w %'^y/s''4'/ZT' '
&% 4
> '-f r WMp n
«W.|
mm
m
m&
m
m
1
mm
m
■4 .',
H
’ t ik* . a *■
i i
i »,<
PECIFY
• ' v ■ . , v
WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DON'T WORRY-IT'S SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
"PITTMAN TECHNIQUE"
IN his championship of Pittman,
K. G. Schoeffel (B. 4/1/’56)
not only draws attention to the
fact that Pittman was the
originator of the lime-super,
mixture to assist seed-inocula-
tion, but gives further emphasis
to the importance of the method.
Schoeffel introduces personalities.
Might I defend my ex-colleague,
Professor J. M. Vincent, Aus-
' tralian leader and a world
authority in the study of rhizo-
bium —the nitrogen-fixing group
of bacteria associated with
legumes—by vouching that he
has always acknowledged Pitt-
man’s contribution to the science
of seed-inoculation.
In spite of Pittman’s efforts
and those of some agricultural
departments in the early ’forties,
the necessity for seed-inoculation
came to the fore only when com-
mercial firms entered the
inoculum - production field in
1953. A spate of advertising,
together with a yearning for im-
proved pastures, resulted in con-
siderable sales of commercial
inoculum to graziers. Results
from usage have often been dis-
appointing, particularly on acid
sods, mainly because the Pitt-
man technique has not been
given sufficient publicity.
The peat-dust containing the
bacteria should be converted into
a slurry by mixing with skim-
milk, sugar and water, or even
water. The seed is moistened
with this slurry and, on drying,
bacteria adhere to the seed-coat.
These bacteria, however, are very
sensitive to acids, and if the seed
comes into contact with super-
phosphate, either in the seeding-
implement or in the soil, then the
bacteria are killed. But a band
of superphosphate in close
proximity to the seed is alto-
gether desirable for seedling
vigor. Hence Pittman’s technique
—neutralise the acid in the super,
by appropriate mixing with lime.
Personal observation over the
past two years has convinced me
that death of seedlings, through
failure of the inoculum to take,
is very common indeed in south-
eastern Australia. We,were faced
with the problem in the Lismore
(N.S.W.) pasture - research
work, and the method to
overcome it is now fairly
well understood in that
district. This position, however,
does not exist in many other
districts and an educational drive
is required to inform farmers
of the symptoms of lack of
bacterial nodulation. Too often
the reason for the yellow-red
stunted seedlings is ascribed to
molybdenum or boron or some
other mysterious cause.
The matter has not been very
important until recently, because
pasture - legume establishment
was mainly restricted to “inside”
paddocks, which already
had a scatter of naturally-
occurring legumes, and hence the
soils contained bacteria which
could do a reasonable job on
introduced legumes.
But we are expanding more
and more into virgin country,
into which few naturally-occur-
ring legumes have spread. Par-
ticularly in the more acid soils,
suitable nitrogen-fixing bacteria
might be absent altogether, and
so successful seed-inoculation
becomes a must.
Placing legume-seed inoculated
with the correct strain of bac-
teria, using a slurry, into moist
soil, together with a band of
neutralised super., is a, virtually
infallible method.
A 1:1 ready-mixed lime-super,
mixture is now on the market in
the three eastern States.
Admittedly, costs are raised by
its use, but, then, so is seedling-
survival and -vigor.
Research is under way, with
promising preliminary results,
on the use of inoculated seed
pelleted in lime, and the neutra-
lising of super, with ammonia.
Such methods may eventually
supplant the Pittman technique,
but they still observe the prin-
ciples first expounded by
Pittman.
E. J. Breakwell.
Ayrshires at
Wollongong
The exhibition of Ayrshires
was the highlight of the cattle-
judging at Wollongong (N.S.W.
South Coast) Show. F. A.
Mclntosh had a good start to the
season, winning, in the female
section, both champion and re-
serve with Woodside Park Nola
and Woodside Park Colleen —the
latter won the dry-cow prize in
Sydney last year.
The same breeder also won the
Ayrshire Classic, a prize for a
pen of three females by the same
sire, with an additional prize if
they have qualified under the offi-
cial lactation-scheme, which
they had. The champion bull
was R. G. O’Donnell’s Glen-
gowrie Baron Bolderwood, bred
by the South Australian breeder
A. T. N. Facey; reserve-ribbon
went to Epping Forest Duncan,
owned and bred by the N.S.W.
president of the Ayrshire Society,
C. Clarke.
Some idea of the success of
this exhibition can be gained by
just reading the names of the
breeders whose cattle took major
prizes; if, to these, one adds
Mclntosh Bros., of Camden, and
A. E. Garrety and Son, of
"It's all a mistake — I thought you were a wedgetail-eagle
after my lambs.”
Nowra, who collected minor
prizes, it reads like a minor
“Royal.” The judge was K.
Buchanan, of Flinders (Vic.), a
son of J. Buchanan, who judged
the Ayrshires at Sydney Royal
last year.
The other breeds were not so
strong. Among the Friesians,
it was mainly a struggle between
V. J. Lamond and J. Calcraft,
both of Nowra, with S. G.
Nelson, of Kangaroo Valley, and
H. Smith, of Campbelltown, com-
ing up with some good entries.
After a lot of consideration
the judge gave the champion-
cow ribbon to Lamond’s Brundee
Janice Princess —the third suc-
cessive show this year at which
this exhibitor has taken the prize,
each time with a different animal.
Calcraft’s Brownlow Hill
Zealand Daisy (bred by J.
Downes, of Camden) was
reserve-champion.
The champion cow also won
the prize for the best type cow
that has gained an official pro-
duction-certificate Within three
years of the show. Champion
bull was again V. J. Lamond’s
New Zealander, Torarpar Gal-
lant Dandy; S. G. Nelson’s
Brundee Lord Echo, reserve-
champion.
A.I.S. were rather weaker than
they have been at other shows
this year. The two main exhibi-
tors were C. R. Chittick and L.
Downes. An N.S.W. North Coast
man, P. Hewitson, was the judge.
Guernseys were stronger.
Champion cow was E. H. Hayes’s
Meadow Park Josephine ; Hayes
also took the Guernsey Society
special prize, and his bull, Dale-
wood Trump, was champion.
Jerseys showed an improve-
ment over the last two shows, with
better entriesifrommore breeders.
NoWra breeder F. C. Emery
paraded the champion cow,
Thelmaville Lexie’s Favorite;
Cheggwidden Estate’s Austral
Park November, reserve. Chegg-
widden scored again when Aus-
tral Park Easter Blue was pro-
nounced champion bull. Reserve-
ribbon went to Mrs. Z. Bahrt’s
bull Kameraka Remand.
The only special prize was the
Rural Bank Cup for the cham-
pion cow of the show (entries
confined to champion cows of
each breed). The five judges
showed very little hesitation in
giving it to the Ayrshire, F. A.
Mclntosh’s Woodside Park Nola.
She gave well over 90001 b. at her
first lactation and is now five
months through her second lac-
tation, so she should be capable
of winning a lot of production-
and-type prizes, as well as purely
type prizes, later on.
John Bridges.
"Wild-dogs"
“Geep”: I recently said on
this page that the bonus-system
had been a failure as a means
of eradicating wild-dogs in
W.A., and suggested that one
reason for its failure was that
it encouraged vermin-farming.
This statement surprised “Bo-
peep” (B. 11/l/’56), who'claims
that the bonus-system is still in
favor and that, “if vermin-
farming has been practised,
neither the department [of
Agriculture] nor individual pas-
toralists know anything about
it.”
The following are extracts
from an article in a recent issue
of the W.A. “Journal of Agri-
culture” :
There is mounting evidence that
the bonus-system has been a costly
failure. Bonuses lead to a type of
“vermin-farming.” There are many
examples of this, including the prac-
tice of pup-catching without destroy-
ing the parents. Annual visits are
paid to regular pupping-places to
catch the pups while great care is
taken to leave the parents unharmed.
In other places, dogging operations
cease during the breeding-period in
order that pregnant females will be
unmolested. In certain areas, where
breeding-places are near and well
known, all destruction-measures have
been aimed at the overflow, leaving
the main reservoir untouched.
The article was written by
A. R. Tomlinson, chief vermin-
control officer of the W.A. De-
partment of Agriculture. These
would be odd words coming
from a responsible officer of a
department which had no know-
ledge of vermin-farming.
“80-peep” asks whether a
dingo is first caught and
inspected to decide if it is a
pregnant female or not. The
quotation should clear up that
point.
Hormones for Lambing
“Sundowner”: There have
been various reports of New
Zealand experiments in improv-
ing lambing by injecting ewes
with hormones. Here are some
further details of work done at
Ruakura Experiment Station.
The purpose is twofold —to pro-
duce more lambs, and to control
time of lambing.
The tests were made by
animal-nutrition officer L. R.
Wallace, who points out that if
good percentages are to be ob-
tained a high proportion of ewes
must be made to shed two or
more eggs at mating.
Dr. Wallace says that the crux
of the low-lambing problem is
that the number of lambs pro-
duced by a ewe depends largely
on the number of eggs she sheds
at the time of mating. It does
not depend entirely on this, for
some of the eggs shed may not
be fertilised, or may die at some
stage after fertilisation. But if
only one egg is shed there can
be only one embryo—hence only
one lamb born —whereas if two
are shed the odds are rather
better than two-to-one that twins
will be produced. So if a good
lambing-percentage is to be ob-
tained a high proportion of the
ewes must be made to shed two
or more eggs.
In applying the new method,
Dr. Wallace ran the ewes to be
treated with raddled teaser-rams.
Every third day, ewes tupped by
the teaser-rams during the pre-
vious three days were marked
and drafted out and injected 12
days later. As soon as they had
been injected the ewes were
turned out with fertile rams.
Results obtained at Ruakura
by using pregnant-mare serum
have been very encouraging,
with no increase in the number
of ewes eventually failing to get
in lamb. The practice has led to
a substantial increase in the
number of lambs born, this in-
crease being entirely due to a
higher proportion of multiple-
births among the ewes that con-
ceived at toe first heat after


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY , Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8861. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
OS
CM
fVOV)*
bo***
. |lcM
lc-€a£(M>
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
An y particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Bos JSBJ,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bos 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Bos 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bos 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Bos 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
‘PHenovit’—Brand of
Phenothlazlne.
Oao
me erontP oven.
W' r
filrs ;-
.? 337
Wtmd.
|||
lllllll
ragftxj:
■mm
>in liquid,powder or tablet form
1 The most effective drench
1 for worms in sheep f
Available NOW from Your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
dgk
x^y
■PHE.3SX.IIIB>
injection. Ewes that do not con-
ceive at their first mating, but
which get in lamb later, produce
only a normal number of lambs.
The effect of P.M.S. lambing-
percentages was most marked.
Untreated ewes bore 131 lambs
per 100, ewes treated with low-
dose P.M.S. bore 178 lambs per
100, and ewes given high-dose
P.M.S. had a drop of 192 lambs
per 100 ewes.
Disadvantages of this method,
listed by Dr. Wallace, are, first,
that teaser-rams have to be used,
and these are costly. Secondly,
there is the labor involved in the
treatment. Teaser-rams have to
be caught and raddled fairly fre-
quently, and the ewes inspected
at least once every three days.
Every third day, also, there is the
work of drafting and injecting.
Lastly, there is the important
consideration of the effect of the
treatment on the time of lambing.
In New Zealand, rams are put
out with ewes at the beginning
of March, coinciding with the
beginning of the breeding-season.
Most ewes are normally mated
by the rams at their first heat-
period. With the injection
method, ewes cannot be mated
before their second heat-period,
so that lambing is likely to be de-
layed by a fortnight. This may
be a serious disadvantage where
early lambing is practised with a
view to getting a high propor-
tion of lambs away to the works
fat off their mothers.
Research at Ruakura by Dr.
Wallace is now aimed at over-
coming these disadvantages.
Supplementary
Irrigation
“Mardan”: Large increases in
the use .of spray-irrigation in
recent years have been respon-
sible for extending the growing-
season of pastures in many of
our higher-rainfall areas, which
previously tended to go out of
production as soon as the sun
was hot enough to burn-off the
feed.
But it is wise to realise that
it is the water, rather than the
way in which it is applied, that
produces the result. Many
farmers are spending money on
spray-equipment where flooding
would do the job without' such
a high capital outlay and operat-
ing cost. ,
Spray-irrigation is invaluable
in such situations as steep,
lightly-covered ground, and on
sandhills. However, as shown
on Kilmany Boys Home Farm
at Sale (Vic.), river-flats and even
sloping ground can be flood-
irrigated from a creek or river
without danger,. so long as the
slopes have a good cover of
pasture.
Engineers have pointed out
that, in addition to capital out-
lay, operating costs and depreci-
ation, spray-irrigation has limita-
tions because water from it does
not penetrate heavy soils well,
and winds and heat reduce the
amount of water which reaches
the crop.
Spray-irrigating is by no
means a foolproof undertaking.
Like flood-irrigation, it requires
great skill.
When contemplating supple-
mentry irrigation from creeks,
dams or channels, farmers
should give strong consideration
to the system which will serve
them most efficiently and
economically. If sprays give the
best prospect, go for them by all
means.
Bee Care
“Drone B.”: Like larger stock,
bees need plenty of water and
shade in hot weather. Often they
don’t get it. Writer frequently
sees commercial apiaries with
large numbers of bees “hanging-
out” in front of their hives .
because of excessive heat inside.
Quite apart from any question
of comfort to the bees, such
overheating grossly impairs the
efficiency of the hive. Many
more bees are kept busy ventilat-
ing and cooling the hive, and,
besides being diverted from more
gainful activities, this army of
fanners constricts the traffic-
routes into and out of the hive.
Time required for each trip is
increased, number of trips per
day decreased, and amount of
nectar collected drops.
The remedy is simply to select
a suitable site for the apiary.
The best site is one which will
provide moderate shade to the
colonies during the heat of the
day. Where the site is in open
country and the bees are not
inclined to rob, tilting the covers
, and /or staggering the supers a
little to allow the espape of hot
air will often save a good deal
of overheating.
With regard to water-supplies,
bees use water for three main
purposes: drinking, cooling and
dilution of honey for brood-
feeding. Whilst the bee is
extremely economical in the use
of drinking-water, it nevertheless
requires a small intake to main-
tain the physiological balance in
its system.
Cooling could to a certain
extent be considered a secondary
effect, as small quantities of
water are stored in the hive
(probably only sufficient to last
from one day to the next).
Evaporation, which is in progress
all the time, is removing a little
of this water, and incidentally
having a cooling effect in the
hive. Brood-feeding, however,
seems to account for the greatest
expenditure of water, and the
more brood a hive is carrying the
more water must be collected.
If bees have to make long
trips to get water, more
field-bees are required for this
task, thus reducing the number
of nectar-collectors. If the field-
bees are unable to keep up
adequate supplies of water, then
the brood and therefore the
strength of the future colony—
must suffer. Surprising how
many beekeepers neglect this
most important point.
If it isn’t possible to locate the
apiary close to a natural water-
supply, provide water in drums.
A 44-gallon drum, cut in half
longitudinally, makes two good
water-troughs for the apiarist’s
workers. And don’t forget to put
in a number of wooden floats;
otherwise you’ll have a lot of
drowned bees.
Dehydrators
“Porky”: Although the pig
is not a very efficient medium
for converting skim-milk into a
practical form of edible protein
(as was pointed out recently),
it is the cheapest way of extract-
ing the water from the solution
and making the protein available
as human food.
Until a better and cheaper
mechanical way of doing this is
found, pigs will probably con-
tinue to do a big proportion of
the job for us. Kiewa Dairy
Co., in north-east Victoria, has
a milk-powder factory, but still
makes a lot of its profits by
pouring much of its buttermilk
down the throats of a big herd
of pigs..
On the recommendation of
pig-expert L. A. Downey the
single-litter system (in which
maiden-sows only are mated,
and later fattened for the butcher
when their litters have been
weaned) has been outstandingly
successful in utilising the vary-
ing amounts of buttermilk avail-
able at different seasons of the
year.
Farm Hints
“Bill C.”: To clean the acid
deposits off battery-clips and
-terminals use a rag dipped in
baking-soda solution. Have a
clean rag handy to clean off all
soda as soon as the acid has
been removed. See that no
soda gets into the battery.
“Sundowner”: Black - disease
of sheep can be controlled by
eliminating the liver-fluke to
do this apply, during January,
bluestone to watercourses where
the snail lives, at the rate of 201 b.
per acre. Where the fluke has
entered the sheep it can be killed
by drenching during April, June
and July. Recommended dose-
rates are 1 c.c. of tetrachloride in
4 c.c. of liquid-paraffin. As cattle
and rabbits are carriers of liver-
fluke, complete control is im-
possible unless cattle are
drenched, too, and rabbits
eliminated.
“Rado”: After a motor-
vehicle has been painted, greas-
ing-nipples should be examined
carefully and any beads of paint
obstructing the oil-orifices re-
moved. These can be brushed
off with one stroke of a file.
“G.”: Many people suffer
loss through having expensive
plants sent to Australia from
overseas. All such plants are
destroyed under quarantine-
regulations. Only plants con-
signed to importers registered
under the Commonwealth
quarantine - regulations are
allowed to enter. These are
required to be grown in quaran-
tine and will be released when
certified disease-free.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/1/'56)
The heavy rains and floods which were indicated in the
eastern States at this time have duly arrived, and high
sunspot-activity has led to intensification of rains in the
south-west of Queensland.
Heavy rains are likely to continue on the north coast
and north-west of Queensland during February, extending
into the south-west, and further flooding is likely in these
areas. The heavy rains in the north may be associated with
the passage of a tropical cyclone across the northern coast.
In N.S.W., moderate falls are likely on the coast and
portion 'of the tablelands and north-west slopes and plains,
but poor elsewhere. However, in view of sunspot-activity,
heavier rains may eventuate.
February is likely to be a month of poor rainfall in
both Victoria and South Australia, and wide extremes of
temperature should occur, with heat-wave conditions pre-
dominating in South Australia.
Similar conditions should prevail in Western Australia,
apart from good rains in the Fortescue and lower south
coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Parliamentary Broadcasts
Some Federal members take advantage
of Parliamentary broadcasts to air their
views at length in the hope of impressing
their constituents, but, while this is to be
deprecated, it is less objectionable than
the brief, casual and often discourteous
answers given by Ministers to questions
asked by members.
The late Ben Chifley had a harsh, raspi-
ing voice and was hard to listen to for
any period, but he was invariably courte-
ous and informative in his reply to ques-
tions. In that respect he set an example
the present Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies,
might well follow. Mr. Menzies is, I
think, the least informative of all Minis-
ters in his reply to questions, and, his
manner suggests that he resents being
questioned by a mere lay-member of
Parliament. I am sure he does not con-
sciously adopt this style, and if he could
listen to a recording of what he says and
the bored way in which he says it he
would almost certainly mend his ways.
The Treasurer, Sir Arthur Fadden, is
often deliberately provocative when
replying to questions and rarely gives a
reply that does not carry a sting in its
tail. Mr. Casey is polite and informative
in his replies, and the same can be said
of Mr. McEwen.
Ministers should remember that not
only are their replies to questions heard
by listeners but they also appear in
“Hansard,” which is a permanent record
of Parliamentary proceedings.
Also, in the broadcasts of question-
time, why the deletion from the repeat-
broadcast at 7.20 p.m. E.S.T. of points
of order and sometimes of actual ques-
tions? Surely listeners who are not able
to June-in till 7.20 p.m. could be allowed
to hear a full record of proceedings.—
M.F.D. (N.S.W.).
Materialism
Although Australians reject Commun-
ist philosophy there is a danger that many
of them are unconsciously accepting the
basic Marxist proposition that economic
self-interest is the determining influence
in the life of society. There is an alarm-
ing increase of evidence to support this.
Marriage counsellors claim that one of
the main reasons for the increasing num-
ber of divorces is the emphasis placed on
material welfare and the importance
assumed by household gadgets. Old
people complain that their children are
less attentive, less thoughtful. One of
the excuses tendered for small families
is the high cost of giving children • an
adequate education. Yet a careful exami-
nation of family-budgets usually shows
that a disproportionate amount is spent
unwisely and for purely selfish purposes.
Democracy cannot survive if a
materialistic philosophy is, accepted, yet
we seem loath to discuss an alternative.
Little time is given to religious discus-
sions in schools, and many parents are
unwilling or unable to educate their
children to their civic responsibilities.
Too many political and industrial
leaders fail to show the moral integrity
expected of national leaders.
Philosophies and ideals can sway the
history of the world. If intolerance drifts
into indifference the Marxist interpreta-
tion of society may yet wja general
acceptance. — MacD. (Vic.).
The Northern Territory
Few effective steps have ever been
taken to attract permanent settlers to
the N.T. The Federal Government, being
committed to free and private enterprise,
should take a bold lead and start by
scrapping the Lands Ordinance, abolish-
ing leasehold (with a few reservations)
and substituting the freehold system—
subject, of course, to improvement- and
residential-conditions. It should be free-
hold in the fullest sense, with properties
to be used for any lawful, gainful pur-
pose, excepting town-allotments. Should
the Crown exercise its power to resume,
equitable compensation should be paid,
based not only on cost of improvements
but also on previous earnings and poten-
tial loss of future income for a number
of years.
A move like this would attract and
encourage bona fide home-seekers willing
to accept responsibility, invest their
money and work, taking temporary incon-
veniences in their stride.
Existing leases and contracts would
have to be honored, unless otherwise
agreed upon. Prospectors should have
the right to work on the holdings, sub-
ject to due respect for private property.
In case of payable discoveries and subse-
quent development, the owner would be
entitled to an agreed-upon interest in the
enterprise.
Generally, absentee landlordism should
be discouraged, unless on the lines of the
A.M.P.’s development-scheme in S.A.
Foreign investors should not receive any
special concessions, except, possibly,
duty-free entry of capital equipment
within a time-limit set for improvements.
Prospecting-leases should be granted on
Crown land known to be useless for any
other purpose. Timber-resources should
be protected. All holdings should be
balloted for in the usual manner, with
adequate precautions against dummies
and speculators. s
Closer-settlement-of this nature would
lead to the formation of small townships,
as in West Queensland, with an eventual
indigenous prosperity. Increased popu-
lation could also lead to the establish-
ment of light-industries, such as food-
processing. The market would be right
there, and the long haul of foodstuffs to
the N.T. could be avoided. Food-produc-
tion and -processing could be done on a
co-operative basis and provide work for
many people, white and colored.
There is much more to be done about
N.T. development, but actual ownership
is the vital thing. And so-called “long-
range plans” are not much use —they have
a habit of remaining a long way off.
What the N.T. needs is something done
now. —R. A. F. B. (N.T.).
Fuels
Despite lack of success so far in the
search for oil in Australia and its terri-
tories, this country is well placed for
the future. It is reckoned that, at the
staggering rate liquid fuels are now being
used, it won’t be many decades before the
exhaustion of all supplies of natural
oils.
The answer to that problem is, of
course, synthetic fuels. During World
War II Germany showed what could be
done in this respect, producing 29 per
cent, of its total requirements by the
Lurgi method of extraction from brown
coal. Since then scientists in both Ger-
many and the United States have im-
proved on thiis process to the extent that
a war-time expedient has become a peace-
time possibility, but only, its advocates
claim, in those countries with cheap coal
and cheap labor and where natural oil is
not available from local wells.
South Africa has been one of the first
in the field in the production of oil from
coal and has established a plant to
extract 260,000 tons annually, the idea
being to maintain oil-imports at the pre-
sent level and to meet all future require-
ments from this plant.
While N.S.W. coal remains at the price
it is Australia’s best hope for the large-
scale development of synthetic fuels lies
in the brown-coal deposits in Gippsland,
and successive post-war Governments
have been quick to realise this. In less
than 20 years it is expected that plants
“ Careful, Asbestos — don't burn the toast!"
at Morwell will be able to meet three-
quarters of our total needs in liquid fuels.
All of which presupposes that there
will be no revolutionary developments in
the gas-turbine engine or the design of
an atomic-powered car-engine. When,
and if, these do come, Australia, with
large and already well-developed uranium-
deposits, should be in a good position to
make the most of its resources. — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Labor Landmarks
The latest issue of the “Trade Union
Digest” contains a list of “Landmarks
“He Was a self-made man when I got him. But I made some alterations .”
in Labor History” prepared; by N.S.W.
Premier Cahill.
Mr. Cahill seems to have hailed as a
“Labor landmark” practically every
historical event since the arrival of the
First Fleet, but the one that most inter-
ested me was the entry for 1824—aboli-
tion of censorship of the press.
When I saw that I turned to 1953, fully
expecting to read “Censorship of the
press reintroduced,” but the Premier
seems to have forgotten his “gag-the-
press” legislation—-the Sydney City Coun-
cil (Disclosure of Allegations) Act, which
pressure of public opinion subsequently
forced him to repeal.
I also learned that the outstanding
events of 1914 were the establishment of
baby clinics and State advances for home-
building, while in 1939 school-attendance
up to the age of 14 was made compul-
sory. Apparently Mr. Cahill has forgot-
ten the two world wars which have had
such a tremendous effect on living-
standards. — Wallboard (N.S.W.).
Fire-insurance on Homes
Tpday I received the usual “expiry-
notice” for the fire-insurance on my
house. Attached was a large red sticker
inquiring whether the amount of cover
was considered sufficient in view of high
replacement-costs. The company’s soli-
citude left me unmoved —£7 16s. 3d. a
year for cover of £l5OO on a small home
is too much and, although £l5OO is noth-
ing like enough, it will have to suffice.
In these days, when so many Austra-
lians own their own homes, the insurance-
premium is quite an important item in
the annual budget. In my own case, the
nearest other building is 100 ft. away,
the principal water-main of the town
passes the front-gate, we have a well-
equipped fire-brigade, and I just can’t
remember when a house in the town was
last destroyed by fire. If it were not for
the very occasional grass-fire, the brigade
would be completely out of business.
The reason for the high premiums is,
no doubt, that so much of the money col-
lected in the fire-departments of the
various companies is devoted to meeting
claims for other than fire-losses. It was
lately disclosed by the Commonwealth
Statistician that in one year alone (1949-
50) nearly £l2| million was collected in
fire-premiums, yet claims were less than
million. Those figures indicate that
what is sorely needed is some concern
(Government or otherwise) confining its
business to the insurance of dwellings
alone, and quoting premiums comparable
with those charged (and found more than
adequate) by the War Service Homes
Division
When such emphasis is being placed on
the desirability of home-ownership, even
the cost of fire-insurance is an item worth
consideration. There is no reason why
home-owners should contribute so sub-
stantially towards the losses incurred in
other departments of the insurance-busi-
ness. If a company were formed on the
lines suggested, and with proper backing,
it would just about scoop the pool. On
the other hand the existing companies
could isolate fire-insurance from their
other activities and quote correspond-
ingly lower rates for such risks. — Ceg
(Vie.). __
Hotel Hours
Of course “there is a moral issue”
involved in liquor-hours (Keith Ross, B.
11/If 56).
That aspect should be dominant in all
social legislation and, with drinking, the
question is: Is an extension of hours in
the best interests of the community? I
would say that it is not. Figures are not
easily available, but it is generally
conceded that' drunkenness has increased
in N. S. Wales since later closing; also,
the accident-rate on the roads. The con-
sumption of liquor per head of popula-
tion is also up.
It was interesting to note that when
the pubs were closed on polling-day re-
cently N. S. Wales was almost free of
road-accidents. The police opined that
the two facts were related.
At the recent referendum in N. S.
Wales many of the industrial areas voted
in favor of 6 p.m. closing. The voters,
particularly the women, realised that
longer hours would mean more of the
wage-envelope going into the hotel and
less to the home. This has undoubtedly
been the result.
I drink in a suburban hotel opposite
my home and I know by sight and name
many of the regulars. In many cases I
know something of their home-life, and
I’m certain that it hasn’t been improved
by longer hotel-hours.
There has also been lowered efficiency
in industry because of late drinking, and
our suburban community-life has de-
teriorated, too. Women are acquiring
the habit of drinking at night and con-
tinuing in various degrees during the day
—domestic life must suffer under such
conditions.
. I know all the arguments in favor of
expanded hotel trading-facilities, and
they have some merit, but they do not
outweigh the basic moral conclusion that,
for reasons summarised in the foregoing,
any further increase would not be good
for this generation nor for generations
to come. Extended hours simply mean
more drinking, and, if anything, the com-
munity could do with less. —C. B. M
(N.S.W.).


THE MASTERS' VOICE
The dispute between masters and ship-
owners over pilotage brought a large
mail to The Bulletin from captains or
ex-captains and, with one exception, all
of them arguing strongly in favor of the
captains’ case and on much the same
lines.
One Victorian skipper, signing himself
“Fair Go,” points out that “there is no
loading for pilotage duties on our present
scale of wages (not salaries —we are paid
by the month and classed as casual
employees)”:
“If there is such a loading, why do
masters who do not pilot their own ships
(for such reasons as not possessing the
necessary exemptions) receive the same
wages as masters who do this work in
every port they visit?
“Pilotage-exemption certificates are
obtained voluntarily (there is nothing in
the Navigation Act or the Merchant
Service Guild Award or the Articles of
Agreement obliging us to have them) and
paid for by ourselves in the majority of
shipping companies, at a cost of from
£2 to £7 per exemption. An experienced
master would hold 15 to 20 exemptions
at least. To get them he has to study
all navigational particulars of the ports
and pass examinations.
“Port Phillip Bay covers an area of
about 750 square miles, all of which is
pilotage waters, covered by three
separate exemptions. From Cape Moreton
to the Brisbane wharves there are nearly
70 miles of buoyed channels and an
intricate river. To become efficient in the
pilotage of either of these ports needs
about six months’ study—usually under-
taken at the age of, say, 30 to 40, an age
when the average professional man has
put intensive study behind him.
“In the old days—say, 50 years ago—
when exemptions were first instituted,
ships rarely exceeded 2000 gross tons, and
their exempt masters rarely consented to
handle them in and out of ports (particu-
larly river-ports) at night—even now the
Melbourne river-pilots do not care about
handling ships over 400 ft. in length at
night. These days there are many coastal
cargo-ships of 9500 tons gross and over
500 ft. long, which carry 11,000 or 12,000
tons of deadweight cargo, such as iron-
ore, and whose masters are expected to
manoeuvre them to and from wharves
at all hours and in almost all conditions
of wind and tide. Should a master be
involved in a collision or a stranding for
which he is found to blame, his certificate
of competency (not merely his pilotage-
exemption) can be suspended or cancelled,
and his livelihood is gone.
“As to the talk of 50 per cent, of
pilotage-fees boosting the annual earnings
of the Manunda’s captain to £6700, the
50 per cent, mentioned was only a basis
for argument, not a solid demand. In
any case, there are few ships which
compare with the Manunda’s tonnage
(on which pilotage-fees are charged), and
few ships which work so many ports in
the course of a year. What about the
many small ships whose masters must
hold identical exemptions, and on whose
tonnage they would collect about £4 as
half-pilotage for the six- or seven-hour
job of piloting their ship into Melbourne,
compared with the Manunda’s £75 for
four-hours’ work?
“And a point never mentioned was that
the Merchant Service Guild was prepared
to limit any one master's pilotage-
payments to half of his monthly wage.
With the Manunda’s master’s wages
£204 14s. 6d. a month, he could never
claim more than another half of that per
month; total £307 a month, or about
£3400 a year for nine-months’ active
employment—not £6700, or anything like
it. Is £3400 a year too much —in these
days of high pay for unskilled work —
for a man who probably took 30 years
to reach that position and who now has
8500 tons of ship, 3000 tons of valuable
cargo, some 300 passengers and 140 of a
crew as his responsibility?
“A fireman in my own ship drew over
£B5 for a fortnight’s wages and overtime,
which is not unusual, and which puts him
in the £2OOO-a-year class with no skill
except that required to shovel coal, and
no responsibility beyond that of getting
himself down into the stokehold at eight-
bells to relieve his mate in the other
watch.”
* * * *
“Mariner,” of N. S. Wales, notes that
“in the early days of exemptions, the
Merchant Service Guild was as interested
as the shipowners in the masters obtaining
them”:
“Two ‘objects’ mentioned in the guild’s
constitution are:
“ ‘To enable members to acquire
pilotage-exemption certificates,’ and ‘to
enable members to receive a substantial
proportion of the pilotage saved.’
“The first object was quickly achieved ;
not so the second one.
“Pilotage is a specialised job, and
there is not a man in the profession who
can be 100 per cent, competent for every
port in the Commonwealth simul-
taneously. Yet the master, often with
his mind full of administrative problems,
crew-troubles, and sometimes with little
more than an academic knowledge of the
port into which he has to pilot his ship,
is expected to do this work.
“This is a strain for any man, and
Australia is the only country in the world
that allows it up to unlimited tonnage and
over such a large number of ports. Many
countries have pilotage-exemptions for
masters, but the majority, with the excep-
tion of New Zealand, limit the exemption
usually to 2000-3000 tons and only two
or three ports. Australia and New
Zealand are the only countries where
pilotage-exemptions have no restrictions.
“Visiting overseas shipmasters are
astounded that vessels such as the River -
and Iron Yampi-class, or the large
passenger-ships, should be exempt, and
I have heard the opinion often from them
that our masters are fools to do it.”
* * * *
“Tackline S.” also rates the skippers
as poorly paid:
“An industrialist asked Sir Arthur
Rostron his pay for commanding the
Mauretania. It was £l2OO a year.
Staggered, the magnate said he paid
£lO,OOO a year to executives with a
fraction of a shipmaster’s responsibilities.
Similarly, on • an Australian passenger-
ship an industrialist said: ‘Nowhere have
I seen so much loyalty for so little pay.’
“Three-months annual leave has been
plugged by the press —a deceptive state-
ment. Masters’ annual leave is 23 days,
officers’ 16 days. The worker ashore gets
104 weekend holidays, public holidays and
annual leave. Guild members take days
suitable to the ship, and accumulate the
remainder to add to annual leave. The
man ashore has all holidays at home.
The mariner takes four days monthly in
his home port or receives penalty-rates,
also five days at any port (away from
home and so partly useless) if suitable to
the ship on Sundays and public holidays.
“These days are due because guild
members participate in the nationwide
40-hour week. When it was mooted, The
Bulletin claimed it to be impracticable
for seamen. Strictly speaking, The
Bulletin was right, but compensation is
as set out.
“One daily said the
parallels an airline-pilot wanting take-off -
and landing-money. An airstrip is an
airstrip anywhere, given good visibility,
but no two seaports are alike, and it is
mainly the invisible features which
concern the mariner. A 8.0.A.C. pilot
told me [in 1952] that American airline-
pilots do get danger-money for night-
landings at Mascot because of the scarcity
of navigational facilities in Australia. An
airline-pilot living next to me earns £6O-
- weekly. A shipmaster would be
happy to reach the lower figure. No
stigma remains from the airline strike.
Not all strikes are of the wharfie brand.
“Another daily quoted an ex-sailor
who had often seen a master go to his
cabin with nothing to do. Naturally there
is some free time in the average 24 hours,
but his cabin is his office, too, and he
might take there a load on his mind
about which no one can assist him.
Manual workers are seen at work; the
toiling brain is not so visible, but it does
a- bigger job, including, in a skipper's
case, taking the rap for subordinates’
failings.
“In ‘Hungry Skippers’ (B. 14/12/’55)
blackmail was mentioned in connection
with war-time danger-money. Eventually
it reached 50 per cent, of wages. What
little the tax-collector left me paid war-
risk insurance. Not much- blackmail
there! I left the M.N. for the R.A.N-
Tax-free in that service I was better off
on less pay, and my dependants were
covered by pension should I become a
casualty. In a war-area I met a ship-
master friend whose tax paid my tax-free
income. The war-risk bonus was added
to wages after the war to keep seamen’s
incomes proportionate to generally rising
wage-levels.
“The same article says that masters
are under the protection of the Naviga-
tion Act. There is a flaw here. Section
77 awards double-pay for each day that
pay is held-up. Section 90 says no court
can stop a seafarer’s pay. Yet the Arbitra-
tion Court has ordered: ‘From midnight,
2nd December, no salary payment to
Masters and Officers until normal resump-
tion of duties.’ Officers had yet to cease
normal duties, but a number had their
pay docked. Masters performed all
normal duties and disputed the abnormal
one of pilotage.”
* * * *
“C.K.W.” considers ship-captains “the
most highly qualified of any pro-
fessional men, for not only have they
to be masters of seamanship and naviga-
tion, but they have also to have a work-
ing knowledge of wireless, radar, engines,
ship-construction, law and first-aid, and
be able to answer any other question that
the examiner finds fit to ask. And here
on the Australian coast he is expected to
hold a pilotage-exemption certificate.
“Consider what this ‘exemption-
certificate’ means:
“There are no pilots’ dues for navigat-
ing the ship to and from the port.
“No time is lost in waiting for the
pilot to come on board to take the ship
to sea.
“The ship does not have to wait outside
the port for the pilot to come out and
take the ship into port.
“There is no loss of time or expense
in sending messages requiring a pilot.
“No expense is incurred in supplying
victuals to the pilot, or accommodation
should he have to stay on board, as
sometimes happens.
“All these items are spared the ship-
owner when the master undertakes
pilotage-duty.”
« * * •
The one dissenting view comes from
“Wavy N.” (Vic.), who, “being fond of
the sea and ships, joined the Naval
Reserve in about 1926”:
“When World War II started I was a
lieutenant. Being older than average, I
had been told that my war appointment
would probably be on shore, unless I
could qualify as a mine-sweeping adviser.
This I did, and September, 1939, found
me in a converted trawler, not as the
commanding officer, but purely for
sweeping-duties. I spent five months in
the ship, at sea almost every day, but
on no occasion did I actually take the
ship to sea or berth her. In 1943 I did a
course at Flinders Naval Depot, expecting
to be posted to one of the auxiliary
sweepers based on the main ports.
Actually, I was posted to a 1000-ton
coaster which was' loading for Milne Bay.
“The Reserve (Seagoing) Officer whom
I relieved learned of my total lack of
experience and very kindly shifted the
ship from Darling Harbor to a buoy off
Garden Island and, two days later, in a
fog which limited visibility to about
,300yds., I took the ship to sea—first call,
Townsville for coal. The harbor there is
not very large, and all the berths were
occupied except ours —by no means ideal
conditions in which to learn to handle a
single-screw ship. We made it, though I
admit that I lost a couple of pints of
perspiration before we made fast.
“Later, I was ordered to Goodenough
Island and the Trobriands. The two p.-t.s
detailed as my escort had echo-sounding
gear, and were able to advise me that I
had 14ft. of water over some of the
reefs. We were drawing 13ft. 9in. Of
the three pairs of buoys marking the
safe channel on the n.-w. side of the
Trobriands, five buoys were missing, nor
did I have any way of determining
whether the one buoy remaining was the
port or starboard buoy of the first,
second or third pair. After the Trobriands,
Milne Bay, Port Moresby, n.-e. passage to
Cape York, and then inside the reef south
to Sydney. By 1946, when the ship was
decommissioned, I could handle her like
I handle a motor-car.
“Pilotage? Well, the Navy paid me
about £1 the first six times in and out of
each port, after which entering and leaving
were considered routine. The one excep-
tion was the Great Barrier Reef, and there
pilotage was earned and paid each trip—
about three-farthings per mile, from
memory.
“Moreton Bay at night? It’s a cake-
walk —and so are most other Australian
ports.
“To finish on a perfectly fair note:
Being in command of a ship is not all
beer and skittles. It requires study, good
vision, good nerves and, particularly when
it comes to pilotage, a good sense of
speed, distance and ability to sum-up
the elements and change plans as fast
as the elements change theirs. During
the war I met a lot of master-mariners,
in both the Navy and the Merchant
Service, and they were, for the most, a
lot of crackerjack fellows. I think that,
in its dispute, the guild took a wrong
course.
“In the commercial world ashore, plenty
of men in responsible positions go
through a period when their wages
compare unfavorably with others. The
masters, on fixed salaries, see crew-
members, with overtime, collecting high
wages, and they feel that, carrying the
safety of the ship and a host of other
responsibilities, they are underpaid. Well,
why don’t they go to court and air their
grievances?”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 367
Across
I—Century protuberance in the
cluster. (5) , ,
4—Sagging sound of flicked crystal
in a disgustingly overcrowded
area. (8) . . , , ...
9—Loud dunce is in the clear. (9)
10 — Customary reason why Hael is
not an angel. (5) ....
11 — Smell game when associated with
some of 4-across. (4)
12 — Father to rend the donkey horse-
shoe with equal pace. (4, 5)
14 —Let out with time to back them
against it. (4) . .
15_Craft with any craft joint of salt.
18 — Digger lake is arranged in the
style of a stylet. (6-4)
19 — Skinny list. (4)
21 —Scatter definition to bury a book
of the Bible entractes, and works
with mutual effects. (9)
23—Complain that one has a
moustache. (4)
25 — Printer’s measure a girl to
follow. (5)
26 Although feelingless, I have to
follow the little devil donkey. (9)
28—Reduced by one penny if
educated. (8)
29 —Girth is wrong, but not wrong.
(5)
Down
1 — Mace society suit. (4)
2 Liberating the rum opening in
poetry. (9)
3 Fork parts are not antings. (6)
4 Melancholy. (3)
5 Doesn’t have enough cigars, so is
buried in Virginia perhaps? (10)
6 Game aroma of the sound of
flicked crystal trio of “Turandot”
when Pang is absent. (4-4)
7 Means to change the monickers.
(5)
8— Clean up over £25 for a humble
relative of Phar Lap. (5, 4)
12— Disorderly police enter before
the poll. (3-8)
13— Star who puts a lining into a
skull? (9) .
16 —Braying pronoun is mirrored
flying. (9)
17_Where there are no aristocrats
without a match. (8)
20 —Diverting character who puts the
morning to use. (6)
22 —The apple isle cut short the
Maori discrimination. (5)
24 —Pepper skin. (4)
27—The Police Department surrounds
nothing in this case in Botany.
(3)
Solution to Crossw'ord No. 366


I,
522
j -
4
2
tl
t
'52
3
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
accepts the challenge
L£\'ksx:/t&
4 *'*
W>s
The challenge of National Development is being met every day in all aspects of
agriculture, highway and airfield construction, land clearing, open-cut mining, timber
production and land development by Caterpillar track-type Tractors and earth-moving
equipment.
The delivery of this equipment, too, sometimes issues a challenge to man’s ingenuity.
When, for instance, the Mallaluca Tin Mine, of Port Davey, Tasmania, ordered their
Caterpillar D 2 Tractor with 2A ’Dozer, two servicemen had to be flown
in to a beach at Port Davey and trek eight miles across swampy marsh-
land to the mine.
For three weeks prior to delivery, the 80-ft. fishing vessel, “Toora,”
sheltered down the Tasmanian coast waiting for a break in the weather
to unload the machine. But that was just the beginning; to get to
the mine the “Cat” D 2 and operator had to traverse five tough miles
across swampy marshland, cut by rivers and creeks. Away they went,
the steel tracks rolling out their certain road, wallowing along in the
ooze, the blade ’dozing in the banks of the creeks to make the
fording easy.
Then they were at the mine—the “Cat” tractor the centre of an eager
admiring group, the only machine of its kind ever to be seen in that
remote region.
One more verse remains to be told in this
saga of enterprise: Serviceman Moscatt
and Salesman Radeliffe, of the staff of
William Adams Tractors Pty. Ltd., flew in
to effect the delivery in an Auster aircraft,
landing on a beach eight miles from the
mine. They had to wait three days for
the rough weather to subside before their
aircraft could re-land to take them out.
The mine needed one of the big yellow
machines and they’ve got it: a combina-
tion of power and ruggedness to match
the bleak, tough terrain down on Tas-
mania’s lonely, sea-lashed coast at Port
Davey.
rw.ij?
Si
‘.“3
1. Caterpillar D 2 Tractor, Port Davey, Tasmania.
2. Caterpillar Tractors moved 500,000 cu. yds. of earth, making
nine miles of road in a 950-acre site at Kwinana, Western
Australia.
3. Caterpillar D 7 Tractor with Hyster D7N Winch logging after
bushfires for the Benanderah Saw Mill, N.S.W.
4. Two Caterpillar D 8 Tractors pulling. 9-ft. diameter steel ball
fo clear 9 acres in a fantastic II minutes at Gillespie,
Queensland.
ViVf
. AC
—<lrv
flit^
->>. -o«
5. Caterpillar Tractors working at Eildon Reservoir for the Vic-
torian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission.
6. On the South Australian-Victorian border, Caterpillar track-
type Tractors and equipment are clearing an area bounded
by the Ninety-mile Desert on the South Australian side and
the Big Desert on the Victorian side for soldier settlement.
Top Right; Caterpillar D 6 Tractor, owned by Colo Shire, N.S.W.,
constructs new access road to river-frontage farmlands on the
Hawkesbury River, N.S.W.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY
LTD., BRISBANE. U MT *
VIC ME'rBOURNE ADAMS TRACTORS PTY - LTD..
TAS HOBART AM ADAMS tra CTORS PTY. LTD.,
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO. LIMITED.
ADELAIDE.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW
GUINEA) PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
