

/
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
SAFER SURGERY — PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,’” Vol. 77—No. 3966
Wednesday, February 15, 1958
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 285: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
FLORA MACDONALD'S MONUMENT IN SKYE, SCOTLAND
THE Isle of Skye, or Misty Isle as it is sometimes called, is renowned in
prose and poetry for the wild beauty of its scenery and for the legends
with which it is associated. It is the largest of the ten islands off the west
coast of Scotland known as the Inner Hebrides. Its length is about fifty miles
and its width varies from four to twenty-four miles, with a population ot
about 11,000, most of whom are engaged in farming on the croft system.
Until the 13th century the Norsemen were masters of Skye and its
stormy history continued until the 18th century with clan waifare and the
struggles of the Lords of the Isles against the Crown. It was in this remote
and, in former days, almost inaccessible island, that Prince Charles sought
refuge after the defeat of his forces at Culloden in 1746. For many months
he hid in the Highland mountains with a price of £30,000 on his head. His
escape to the Isle of Skye was assisted by Flora Macdonald, who disguised
him as her maid, Betty Burke. Prince Charles sheltered at several places
on Skye, including Elgol and at Kingsburgh, in Flora s home which was
later replaced by another house which can be seen today. It was m this
original house that Johnson and Boswell were entertained by the laird and his
wife, Flora Macdonald. Johnson slept in the bed used by Prince Charles but,
in his own words, he had no ambitious thoughts about it.
Prince Charles escaped to France towards the end of the year 1746; two
years later he was expelled from France and spent the remainder of his lite
as a fugitive on the Continent.
Flora Macdonald was arrested for her part in helping the Prince to
escape but she was released in 1747 and three years later she married
Macdonald of Kingsburgh. Later they went to America but soon letuined
to Scotland, where Flora died in 1790. She was buried at Kilmuir on Skye,
twenty miles from Portree, and one of the largest memorial crosses of its
kind in Scotland, shown in the accompanying illustration, was erected over
her grave. It stands 28jft. high.
The historic funeral of Flora Macdonald was conducted according to the
_ij traditional stvle • the long procession of mourners on their sixteen-mile
walk I the is fefuted to have consumed three-hundred gallons
of spirits.


Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTTS will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, 'Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police. Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 140 Castlerearfi St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St„ Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth. uremeu
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON .
To STO TT ’S: Please send me free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Courses
MY NAME
ADDRESS ’
(S.B. 456) AGE.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you— fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only If suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
SHAKSPEARE AND
HOLINSHED
T. S. Eliot’s best play remains
“Murder in the Cathedral,” which he
took from history; Christopher Fry’s
is “A Phoenix Too Frequent,” which
he took from Petronius; and, with these
two examples to help prove a case
founded largely on Greek and Eliza-
bethan practice, this reviewer has long
held the theory that no poet writing
for the theatre should attempt to invent
anything.
One reason is that it is asking a
great deal of the fates for a man gifted
with the faculties of poetry, characteri-
sation and drama to ask also to be
allowed to make plots. Another, per-
haps more cogent, is that for tragedy
at any rate the legendary quality which
lifts poetic drama above the ordinary
can probably derive only from events
that have actually occurred upon the
earth, however the dramatist may
improve upon the historical facts for
the purposes of the stage. It is the fact
that the events, or something very like
them, once did really happen that gives
the tragedy is urgency, its immediacy,
its conviction, its terrible reality.
It is the republication of Holinshed’s
Chronicle in Everyman’s Library which
has recalled these thoughts to mind:
for if ever there was clear proof that
Shakspeare, the greatest dramatist of
all time, invented as little as he possibly
could it is in this artless Elizabethan
history, from which Professor Allardyce
Nicoll and Josephine Nicoll have here
selected the passages directly relating
to the plays. “Macbeth”—since it is
obvious that he would take the English
histories from English history—is the
supreme example of Shakspeare’s debt
to Holinshed. It is at once fascinating
to see how little he invented, and how
ingeniously he juggled with the
material which he used.
One thing he did invent, no doubt
to deepen the crime and, as the editors
remark, to give Lady Macbeth that
marvellous first indication of her weak-
ness—for she was really a very silly
woman, who bit off more than she
could chew; not the tigress as which
she is so often portrayed—was to
change King Duncan from the young
man recorded in Holinshed to the
venerable figure of the play who re-
minds Lady Macbeth of her father, so
that she cannot kill him in his sleep.
The most ingenious piece of juggling
was when, the precise details of the
murder of Duncan being missing in
Holinshed, Shakspeare took the facts of
another royal Scottish murder from the
historian —the killing of King Duff
(not to be confused with Macduff of
the play) by one Donwald—and fitted
those to Macbeth’s dark deed. And
how perfectly they did fit! It was
established in Holinshed that Macbeth,
“a valiant gentleman, and one that if
he had not been somewhat cruell of
nature, might haue beene thought most
woorthie the gouernement of a realme,”
had a streak of decency in him and
driven on by his wife, the witches and
his own vaulting ambition, yet hesi-
tated to commit the murder and
“thought within himself that he must
tarie a time” until Divine Providence
of its own accord should present him
with the crown. Donwald, if he does
not appear to have had pangs of
conscience, had at least a respectable
motive for murder—revenge for
executed kinsmen —and he too was
driven on by an ambitious consort.
One can imagine the delight with which
Shakspeare found in the Duff story
exactly the details he needed for Mac-
beth: Donwald’s wife spurring him on
and devising a plan for the murder—
She as one that bare no lesse malice
in hir heart towards the king coun-
selled him (sith the king oftentimes
vsed to lodge in his house without
anie gard about him, other than the
garrison of the castell, which was
wholie at his commandement) to
make him awaie, and shewed him
the meanes wherby he might
soonest accomplish it. . .
the pair making two of the servants
drunk and then (though Donwald gets
a hired assassin to do the deed instead
of tackling it himself as Macbeth does
in the play) blaming them for the
murder and killing them in their
drunken sleep—“he foorthwith slue the
chamberlains, and then like a mad man
running to and fro he ransacked eurie
comer within the castell.”
One minor point in some mitigation
of Macbeth’s crime Shakspeare
omitted. According to Holinshed,
Macbeth, related to Duncan, had a
legitimate claim to the throne during
the minority of Duncan’s eldest son,
and Duncan, to forestall his kinsman,
established young Malcolm as Prince
of Cumberland, which was equivalent
to appointing him his successor.
But there wasn’t much else that
Shakspeare left out. The witches come
straight from Holinshed: —
Shortlie afterwards happened a
strange and vncouth woonder, which
afterward was the cause of much
trouble in the realme of Scotland,
as ye shall after heare. It fortuned
as Macbeth and Banquho iournied
towards Fores, where the king then
laie, they went sporting by the waie
togither without other companie,
saue only themselues, passing
thorough the woods and fields, when
suddenlie in the middest of a laund
there met them three women in
strange and wild apparell, resembling
creatures of elder world, whome
when they attentiuelie beheld,
woondering much at the sight, the
first of them spake and said: “All
haile, Makbeth, thane of Glammis!”
(for he had latelie entered into that
dignitie and office by the death of his
father Sinell). The second of them
said “Haile, Makbeth, thane of
Cawder!” But the third said: “All
haile, Makbeth, that heereafter shalt
be king of Scotland!”
The slaying Pf Macduff’s wife and
children is from Holinshed; so is the
second meeting with the witches, when
Macbeth is told that “he should neuer
be slaine with man borne of anie
woman nor vanquished till the wood
of Bernane came to the castell of
Dunsinane”; so is one long passage
which Shakspeare would have done
well to have omitted, Malcolm’s non-
sensical “testing” of Macduff when that
stricken hero comes to join him, the
only place where this tautest and
most direct of Shakspeare’s tragedies
falls away into mere word-spinning; so
is the coming of Birnam Wood to
Dunsinane at the end; and so is the
very word “ripp’d” (which Shakspeare,
apparently much relishing it for its
appropriate ferocity, placed last in his
line for emphasis) when Macduff finally
appals the tyrant with his assurance,
“For I am euen he that thy wizzards
told thee of; who was neuer borne of
my mother but ripped out of her
wombe.”
If a justification is needed for these
borrowings—-others can be traced in
“King Lear,” though Shakspeare there
relied chiefly upon an earlier play, one
with a happy ending—it lies, surely, in
the lamentable fact that Holinshed,
though fascinating as a companion to
Shakspeare, is in himself too scrappy,
bald and remote to be read with much
pleasure except as a curiosity. He
dug up the bare bones which Shak-
speare animated with genius and
clothed with magnificence.
Other recent Everyman’s reprints
include Hazlitt’s superb Lectures on
English Poets, Shirley by Charlotte
Bronte, Poems by Matthew Arnold,
The Social Contract by Jean-Jacques
Rousseau, Journal to Stella by Jona-
than Swift, Essays and Poems by Edgar
Allan Poe, Candide by Voltaire, St.
Ives by R. L. Stevenson (a dullish his-
torical novel), and Nathaniel Haw-
thorne’s Twice-Told Tales —a set of
short-stories and essays which, if not
up to the quality of “The Scarlet
Letter,” are rather more solid than
“The House with the Seven Gables,”
taking their force as well as their
cruelty from the puritanic cast of mind
which Hawthorne at once attacked and,
to a degree, shared.
Old Colonial Love
There is a good deal of old-world
charm in Dorothy M. Catts’s Those
Golden Years (Hutchinson), a novel of
the colonial times; and, if one seems
to have read it all before, there is still
a certain pleasure in watching it all
work out the same way to the wedding-
bells at the end.
There are, indeed, two brides in it,
both radiant. There is an English
lord, very grave and dignified, who
has so far fallen from grace in his
youth as to seduce one of the heroines
—but he secretly maintains his illegiti-
mate daughter and marries her off,
“radiant,” to a rather nasty groom
and they go off hopefully together to
Australia, to make their fortune on
the goldfields. Arriving first in Mel-
bourne, they are befriended by an
extremely nice Irish procuress.
The second bride, bom under a
buggy or some such vehicle on the way
to the ever-useful Eureka Stockade, is
the illegitimate daughter’s daughter;
and she, too, before she becomes a
famous pianist and plays before the
Queen, commits a small indiscretion,
in the nicest way possible, in the shape
of an illegitimate son. The father is
a wealthy grazier—a completely eligible
young man, but, unfortunately,
married. Providence having thought-
fully removed his wife, Rodney is at
last able to make reparation:—
“I shall devote my life to making
you happy, my darling,” he vowed.
“Although I know I am unworthy,
you will help me to be worth while,
sweet Freya.”
And Freya told him happily,
“There’s no one in the world I’d
rather be than Mrs. Rodney
Granger.”
The only point this reviewer cares
to query in this most amiable of light
romances is the abysmal obtuseness
of Silas, the nasty groom and bride-
groom, when two spielers are taking
him down on his first arrival in Mel-
bourne. “So you see, my dear fellow,”
says one of the spielers to him, “I must
settle my affairs quickly, and for the
sake of my dear, departed wife I
should prefer to sell the house to some
decent God-fearing people, and not to
adventurers who would quickly charge
some dastardly price for lodgings and
prey upon the needy.” Even a groom
fresh from the green oats of old Eng-
land should have suspected that there
was something phony in anyone who
talked like that.
The Magazines
“Southerly,” No. 3, 1955, is a
“William Baylebridge” number, with
some surprising over-valuations of
Baylebridge’s awful poetry —but with
a great deal of useful biographical and
bibliographical information.
The number also dashes in with a
review of “Australian Poetry, 1954.”
“Meanjin,” No. 63, Summer, 1955,
continues Mr. Christesen’s prolonged
controversy with Frederick T. Macart-
ney on the exceedingly awkward prob-
lem of “Meanjin’s” politics and,
astonishingly, includes Ezra Pound as
a contributor with his “Canto 90.” Two
contributors expound Pound as best
they are able in an imitation of Pound’s
telegraphic prose-style.
The year’s novels and poetry are re-
viewed; Jack Lindsay contributes a
long poem; and Marjorie Barnard
has a long biographical and critical
essay on Miles Franklin in which
she raises the question whether
or not Miles Franklin was of ‘“The
Bulletin’ school” . . . The answer
depends, of course, on your definition
of the “school”: if it means that Miles
Franklin would have had to write bush-
ballads like “Banjo” Paterson or very
short short-stories like Steele Rudd and
Lawson, she was not of it; if it means
that she was influenced by Joseph
Furphy, as Marjorie Barnard says she
was, then she was ... if that is reason-
ably intelligible. On the whole, one is
inclined to agree with Marjorie
Barnard that Miles was not of “The
Bulletin” school: Paterson and Lawson
are the definitive elements.
Since it was sent by Professor
R. G. Howarth, formerly editor of
“Southerly,” the “South African P.E.N.
Yearbook, 1955,” might conveniently
be mentioned here. As Australian
magazines deal with Baylebridge and
Miles Franklin, so the South Africans
deal with Olive Schreiner and Sarah
Gertrude Millin. There is an article in
favor (!) of censorship; prose by Alan
Paton and Stuart Cloete; and, among a
very tepid and strangely Victorian lot
of poems, a lively set of lyrics based
on myths of the Kalahari Bushmen by
Arthur Markowitz:—
The wind was formerly a man.
He walked upon the ground.
He is the one who has become
A bird that flies about.
Professor Howarth contributes an
article on “An Australian’s View of
South African Literature” in which, as
companions for Olive Schreiner, he
draws South African attention to
Henry Handel Richardson and
Katharine Prichard.
In the Antipodes
“A round trip to the Antipodes”
entitled Back in Three Months
(Hutchinson) enables Mrs. Janet
Hedderwick, “a middle-aged English-
woman,” to deal with the “horrid little
houses” in “one of the inner suburbs
romantically called Neutral Bay,”
assess the neighbors with good and bad
marks for accomplishments and breed-
ing, admire Sydney’s public buildings,
despair over Kiama’s “terrible” bunga-
lows and proceed to Queensland and
the Barrier Reef.
Mrs. Hedderwick seems to have
encountered some embarrassing prob-
lems: —
This was continually happening to
me in Australia. I would think I
was getting along splendidly with a
nice kind man, and then I would
suddenly and unmistakenly find my-
self brushed right off. I rarely knew
why. At first I supposed that I had
said something unbecoming in a
modest woman, so for a bit I con-
fined myself to talking mincingly
about the weather or the view.
It is rather a pity that, at the Barrier
Reef, Mrs. Hedderwick did not meet
Mr. A. C. C. Lock. For the conversation
of Australian men in that salubrious
climate, as Mr. Lock records it in
his travel-book Destination Barrier
Reef (Georgian House), is very high-
class indeed:—
“Do you anticipate,” I asked, “that
eventually Australia will be able to
produce cultured pearls in the same
quantities as did the Japanese prior
to the outbreak of the last war?”
“We are still not sure on biological
grounds that we can match the
Japanese pre-war production,” he
replied. “There are several technical
difficulties in the utilisation of the
local species of pearl oysters which
have yet to be overcome. However,
I consider it quite probable that
these will be eventually solved.”
It is some tribute to the power of a
good story that Mr. Look’s account
of a real-life murder of a beche-de-
mer fisherman by his wife and her
diver-lover, and of the lover who
bought a Thursday Island geisha-girl
from her Japanese owner with money
he stole from the owner’s safe,
survive his telling of them ... He is
also interesting, if hardly the first in
his field, on the birds, beasts and fishes
of the Barrier Reef.


For golfing ... for walking .. . for all your active hours,
these are the casuals designed with a flair for comfort and
good looks. Choose from a wonderful range of styles and
colours by famous makers this year .
THE PUNCHED CASUAL IS NEWS!
A. Halls “Pedic” golf shoe, in calf, with five eyelet tie
fringe tongue. In fittings Ato B. Priced at 68/6 per pair.
B. Clark’s “Mendip,” a comfortable rubber sole tie walking
shoe. In a range of fittings from Ato C. Priced at 93/6 pair.
C. Hill and Dale Ghillie tie golf shoe with punch trim is
available in red or tan. Sizes AA to B. Priced at 91/- pair.
D. “Devon” low heel court with punched front, buckle trim.
Available in black Suede. Fittings Ato B. Price, 64/6 pair.
E. “Trent” low heel tie mocassin vamp in mushroom or grey
suede. Available in fittings Ato B. Priced at 65/6 a pair.
F. “Stroller” by Halls, a low'heel calf court with punch
trim. Available in tan or grey. Fittings Ato B. 64/6 pair.
G. “Stroller” moccasin vamp by Halls with buckle trim and
low heel. In black or tan. Fittings Ato B. Price, 65/6 pair.
H. “Saddler” by Bedggood is available in caramel year'
ling calf, in fractional sizes AA to C. Priced at 93/6 per pair.
I. “Glenn” by Bedggood, a suede and calf court with a
low heel. In honey or green suede. Fittings AA to G. 97/6 pair.
J. “Punchello” by Griffen has a rubber sole and punched
vamp. In red or black. B fittings only. Price. 64/6 a pair.
K. “Wonderfit” Golf Shoe in calf, with fringe tongue trim,
in black or tan. Sizes 2\ to 7. Priced at only 49/' a pair.
L. “Griffen” calf brogue golf shoe with fringe tongue,
available in brown or black. Fittings A to B. Priced at 68/' pair.
.
m
tmgm
wmmk
» J *
A
L
*
i
.. ~o'~'
i ..
■
m
*
■:
'
H
* *
I
*
:• :
.
4
u ♦
E
A
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING''
[AIL
TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
POSTAGE EXTRA. ’PHONE: 80951
F
1
H


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3966
Wednesday, February IS, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
, 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW BROOM FOR N.S.W.
ON May 16, 1941, the McKell “Labor” Govern-
ment took office in N. S. Wales after defeating
Mair, who had accidentally become State Parlia-
mentary leader of the United Australia Party fol-
lowing a manoeuvre (led by E. S. Spooner) which
ousted B. S. B. Stevens from the leadership. Mair,
who was a better farmer than a politician, had an
uneasy two years before “Labor” won the 1941
election. He was not helped by the bitterness that
then existed in the Federal U.A.P., which in
the year of his own defeat brought Fadden to the
leadership of the Federal U.A.P.-U.C.P., and, in
October of the same year, the defeat of the Fadden
Ministry when Coles and Wilson crossed the floor
in the Canberra Reps.
That, perhaps, sounds like ancient history; but
the significant thing is that since McKell defeated
Mair in 1941 there has been no Government in
N. S. Wales other than the “Labor” breed, and
though “Labor” has paraded under the brands of
McKell, McGirr and Cahill, not one of its Admini-
strations could be put into the same street as that
of Mair as regards governmental efficiency.
The most capable of the “Labor” Premiers
was McKell. Since he went to his reward as
Governor-General (under the sponsorship of
Chifley) the N.S.W. “Labor” Administration has
grown progressively more inept and politically
rotten. v V
Its political corruption has shown up in many
ways. There have been a variety of Cases where it
has refused to see justice done; where it has
covered up “Labor” misdeeds and threatened to
gag or jail those who exposed them. It has legislated
for compulsory-unionism without a mandate from
anyone. But the most serious corruption which
exists in the Government of N.S.W. is revealed in the
fact that it governs in the interests of a pressure-
group, the “Labor” unions, from which it has
repeatedly shown that it takes its directions and
orders. This is not the only pressure-group to
influence it, but it is the major one. And it is
quite clear that this corruption has led to other
corruption, with the result that there is little or
no responsible government in N.S.W. today. In its
partisanship and its preferments the “Labor”
Administration has sunk beneath contempt. In its
angry moments of frustration it has shown itself to
be totalitarian-minded and intolerant.
After nearly 15 years of this sort of thing, it
is natural enough that the State of N. S. Wales is
in a pretty run-down and demoralised condition. A
Government can’t just go on buying votes year after
year—spending money politically rather than
economically, handing out jobs and judicial posts
to its friends and brethren instead of to those most
competent —without the effects showing-up in the
public service, public works and national develop-
ment, as well as in the whole economic and social
fabric of the community. Frequently there has been
a scandalous waste of public funds, as in the State
Tileworks at Blacktown, and in the numerous
unfinished “works” that were started, apparently,
simply for the purpose of giving jobs.
It is quite possible that the Cahill Ministry
doesn’t know any better —that it thinks “spoil to the
victors” is a legitimate Government policy, and that
it is entirely unnecessary to build up; perfectly
proper to drag down and exploit. Certainly it seems
prepared to lead N.S.W.—and with it Australia-
on to ruin with the greatest smugness and
equanimity. The only thing that appears to hurt
its feelings is when something goes wrong inside the
party or the Trades Hall, as has happened at the
present time.
It is a bad state of affairs when the leading
State of Australia, with a population of 3,400,000,
most of the coal resources, the principal shipping
ports, the greatest wool-production and most of the
steel-output falls into the control of a gang of
political opportunists, wirepullers and no-hopers.
But that is the position in New South Wales.
More especially since the advent of McGirr and
Cahill, the “Labor” Government’s policy has been
one of the political exploitation of what had been
established by generations of saner government in
a more healthy economic atmosphere.
Looking around Sydney and the rest of N.S.W.
one can see that a vast amount of construction ‘and
development has been done—ls years or more ago,
before the coming of the McKell-McGirr-Cahill era.
Since then —obsolescence, decrepitude and decay.
The railway-system is rapidly becoming a shambles,
and though the Trans-Australian railway (a Com-
monwealth-run line) has shown that dieselisation
will pay for itself in a very few years, and add
immeasurably to the efficiency of the system, the
N.S.W. Government has opposed the diesel-electric
method, apparently because the coalmining unions
don’t want it.
Today the great and potentially wealthy State
of N.S.W. is fast becoming an obstruction to the
progress of the whole Commonwealth. Mis-
managed from the highest political levels, and
governed in the interest of the unruly, the loafers
and the thriftless, it has become a mockery of demo-
cratic government.
The judiciary needs overhauling and strength-
ening. The education-system needs to be purged
of political and Communist propaganda. The
police-force calls for attention, and the whole
public service requires an investigation. The
gambling disease should be brought under control,
and more encouragement given to gamblers to
invest their money in homes rather than in s.-p. and
lotteries.
In particular, the economic security of the
Commonwealth must not again be jeopardised by
wanton “gifts” of a shorter working-week and
inflationary wage-rises merely to win momentary
electoral popularity for an unscrupulous and inept
Government.
The Constitutional powers of States like
N.S.W. are very extensive. Except in time of war,
States can obstruct the Commonwealth in most
industrial and economic matters, not to mention
the many functions which are purely State preserves.
The people have lately given the Menzies
Government a decisive vote of confidence in its
economic programme; only a hangover from the
previous Senate election is likely to cause it trouble
in the Federal House during the present session. But
without the co-operation of State Governments
the Menzies Administration may be beaten before
it starts in any attempt to deal with the nation’s
mounting economic problems.
The N.S.W. State election on March 3 is there-
fore of the greatest importance to the welfare of the
whole of Australia. Those whose political
memories go back to the 1930’s will remember how
the Lang Administration held up recovery from
the depression until, early in 1932, Governor Game
dismissed John Thomas Lang from office.
Succeeded by the Stevens (U.A.P.-C.P.) Government
on May 13, 1932, and with the Lyons (U.A.P.)
Ministry in the Federal House, there followed a
splendid recovery from the depression with an
immense amount of public works carried out,
largely because the new Administrations allowed
normal economic forces to operate, and confidence
and productivity were encouraged to revive. The
Lang Government, like that of Premier Cahill, had
been a pressure-group Government with no talent
for constructive measures. It put the unemployed
to shifting sand from one heap to another, so
bankrupt was it of constructive ideas. The U.A.P.
Administrations, though not particularly brilliant,
were honest, governed for the people as a whole,
and possessed a reasonable quantum of economic
commonsense. The people did the rest. «
' The Government which N.S.W. needs today is
one with a constructive (not parasitic) outlook, with
its heart in Australia, and not in the devious and
dark passages of the Trades Hall and the booze-
and:betting racket. After 15 years of squandering
what the other fellow has done, it is time for N.S.W.
to start doing for itself again, and to be proud of
its doings. It is impossible to conceive the present
State Government erecting another Harbor Bridge,
for example, in spite of the greater population and
wealth of the country. Yet we should be doing such
things again, and keeping abreast of other civilised
peoples.
A clean sweep of the Cahill mob from the
Treasury benches would be the most refreshing
and heartening event that could happen for Aus-
tralia during this present year.
A Federal Issue
THERE are three factors which Australia lacks
for real progress—unity, stability and diligence —
and the want of them arises from the same source:
the. structure of our Federal system and top-heavy
nature of State powers, combined with the loss of
sense of responsibility in State Governments.
The'conflict of the States against the Common-
wealth to serve the ends of the class-war is an
appalling feature of Australian public life. The
way in which some “Labor” Governments, notably
that of N. S. Wales, flout the intention of the electors
and the measures of the Federal Government and
Federal courts is a disgrace—and a disaster.
A prime example is to be found in the manner
in which the cynical and irresponsible Cahill Gov-
ernment runs its own arbitration-system in conflict
with that of the Commonwealth, deliberately adopt-
ing measures, such as the application of the
Harvester Award, to wages in an intentional com-
petition for vote-buying purposes and the steady
running-counter to the Commonwealth’s financial
policy for the express purpose of trying to wreck
the national Government, irrespective of the damage
which is done to the economy.
It would seem passing strange in any other
country whose inhabitants call themselves sane; but
it has been proved quite possible in Australia for
the inhabitants of a State to give an overwhelming
mandate to a Federal Government for taking a
certain course of action and then, a month or so
later, for the same State, through a gerrymandered
system of electorates, to give an opposite mandate
to another party. It is no wonder, in the circum-
stances, that government in this country is a muddle,
that progress is frustrated, and that the agitator
finds it a paradise unequalled this side of nether
South America. But the immediate questions which
arise in a long series from this Mad Hatter position
are usually so pressing that nobody seems to have
time to make a stab at rationalising the overall
situation.
The Parliament which meets in Canberra for
the first time this week might have been devoted
largely to Constitutional matters —the reform of
the Senate, the consideration of Commonwealth
and State powers in general; but it now seems that
programme Mr. Menzies has in mind he
will find himself having to take his eyes off the long-
term prospect to attend to disturbed industrial
conditions, State - election campaigns, overseas
markets and finance and new considerations in
defence arising out of the hastening tempo of
Russian-bloc aggression.
N. S. Wales and Queensland “Labor” obvi-
ously have no intention of doing anything to help
any drive against inflation or in aid of the primary
need of the country—more production per £ of
wages paid and capital outlaid, to enable Australia
to compete in overseas markets and meet the
purchasing-capacities of low-wage overseas import
countries.
One of the first needs for Federal Parliament
seems to be to secure a stiffening of the Govern-
ment’s back against Communism and its machina-
tions, which will certainly grow in intensity with
the development of the international tensions,
economic as well as military. Whatever else the
first session undertakes, it should put up a fight
for Constitutional reform to take the power out of
the hands of the nark States and the saboteur unions
to impede national progress and inhibit our ability
to compete in overseas trade. In at least one
Australian State, N. S. Wales, if reports of people
in the press are correct, the Government is
prepared to allow unions to bully and blackmail
and condone assaults on faithful employees of the
State who are prepared to do a fair day’s work and
not aid sabotage strikes organised by Red elements.
The Cahill Government has shown no tendency to
take an interest in inquiring into and stopping such
outrages if they are being perpetrated.
In Queensland the whole issue with the great
“Labor” party, which professes a fervent love of
country, has recently been a universal annual holi-
day period at community expense, combined with
universal wage-rises and strikes which are crippling
the railways and sea-transport and industries which
depend on power.
Interest in increasing production as the means
of getting the money which everybody is only too
willing to spend is virtually nil in the A.L.P.
That, as well as buying an easy paradise for
the loafer, is supposed to be the duty solely of the
employer and the Government.
A main task of Parliament —perhaps the main
task-—is to mobilise public opinion against this
shabby and debilitating outlook and against the
petty corruption which is apparent everywhere.
At present there is too little national sentiment,
no single national arbitration-system or wage-
formula. The country is being run on a class-war
catch-as-catch-can wrestling system, which has made
the State elections a matter of intense and vital
interest to the Commonwealth.
It is reported that Mr. Menzies will take part
in the N. S. Wales State campaign. It is to be hoped
he will. Indeed, with the elections falling close
together in several States, it would be justifiable if
the Federal Government leaders made the fight their
own and put the issues squarely to the electors, who
are as much their own electors as those of the
Cahills and the Gairs.
If the Federal approach were on an organised
scale the issues raised would be bound to transcend
the parish-pump and class-war issues on which
“Labor” fights at State polls. A long step towards
co-ordination of authority and policy might be
achieved.
Certain N it is that something will have to be
done about the conflict of industrial authority
which enables malignant small-time politicians of
the Cahill type to checkmate every national move
in the wage, hours and production fields in the
promotion of trade and expansion of national
income.


SWEEP N.S.W. CLEAN!


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Dominions
The years 1955-57 have recorded further
changes in the structure of the British
Commonwealth: more British colonies
have achieved Dominion status, or have
retired to a shaky independence.
Sudan broke away from the Common-
wealth at the end of last year _and has
promptly found itself threatened by
Egypt, with economic peril likely to
result from Egypt’s new plans for bigger
and better Nile dams, which are cal-
culated to hog the power-resources of
the great river. These are as essential to
the Sudan as to the population along the
lower Nile.
During the past week the first colored
Dominion, West Africa, has been
engaged in a loud, syncopated celebration
of its new status, made memorable by the
visit of the Queen, and Pakistan is enjoy-
ing the first-fruits of its newly-
announced republicanism an offer
(likely to be refused) of the most glitter-
ing trade-assistance from the Soviet
Union. x
Last week also it was announced that
the scattered West Indian British colonies
may have been turned into a new
Federated Dominion by July next. Mr.
Lennox Boyd, the Colonial Secretary, has
said that this would be possible if the
talks which have opened in London on
the project are brought to a swift
conclusion.
The new West Indian Dominion would
probably include British Guiana, and in
all would comprise a rich little sea Domi-
nion of about 100,000 square miles, part
of its boundaries only seven miles from
the Venezuelan coast and running almost
up to Florida. It will hold 3,000,000 or so
in population, nearly all colored, and
every unit of it already long ago invested
with some measure of racial equality
and power of self-government.
Finally, it has been announced by
Malaya’s Chief Minister, Abdul Rahman,
who has, been conferring with the
British Government in Westminster, that
Malaya will be granted full independence
within the British Commonwealth on
August 31, 1957.
The Constitution is to be drafted by an
independent commission of British Com-
monwealth experts. A further conference
will be held in London in April to con-
sider giving independence to Singapore,
which, like Hong Kong, is virtually an
original creation of the British and a
Crown colony. No doubt it will link
with Malaya ; but the whole matter calls
for unease in view of the weakness and
inexperience of the Malays, the power of
the local Chinese, and the immense value
of the rubber and tin produced entirely by
British initiative and organisation, which
are such an asset to the Western Allies
and so great a temptation to the
Communist bloc.
The matter is of the greatest import-
ance to Australia, in the light of Malaya’s
strategic position in respect of air-
attack and defence and the thoroughly
unsettled condition of the Far East,
where the Red Chinese are certainly
building up strength menacing Formosa,
assault on which might launch a
world war and send the Communists
driving southward to capture the
Malayan flank and prepare ground for
taking over Burma, India and
Indonesia.
Apart from such considerations, all
these new arrangements seem to be a
dubious bargain for the civilised world.
Self-government is being handed out in
large packets to people utterly unsuited
for self-government at this stage. They
are being assured protection, without any
really satisfactory quid pro quo or the
possibility of assurances that they can
preserve the assets handed over to them.
The European and American West will
still have to defend them.
No principle seems to lie behind all the
retreats, so far as the average Asian will
be able to discern it, save a weakness
which has led to surrender. And if any
conclusion is likely to be drawn from it t
with the assistance of a swarm of Com-
munist agitators, highly skilled in pre-
varication and deceit, and Moscow and
Khabarovsk radios, it will be that the
West has nothing more to offer Asia.
The Strike Ends
After tying-up over 180 ships and strik-
ing a cunning blow at the vulnerable
Australian economy, the Communist
leaders are letting their wharfies go back
to work.
They had, of course, never hoped to
win the strike; merely to disrupt
industry, make the nation pay the
price, and perhaps spread the contagion
to other large unions, thus bringing
defence-work to a standstill and sowing
the seeds of a year of rowdyism and dis-
order.
They fought to prolong the dispute, and
are going back at the last possible
moment.
They have been forced by the A.C.T.U;
to do what the A.C.T.U. should have
compelled them to do, if it had the
power, in the beginning. They are
returning to the arbitration court after
having uttered insults at its judges and
questioned its fairness. It has been
agreed that in the hearings the owners
will not oppose a rise of 6d. an hour,
but general conditions must be considered
in relation to wages during the same
series of hearings, a proceeding which
Healy ahd his fellow-Communists have
opposed to the last moment.
The disturbing factor in the whole
affair has been the timidity of public
opinion. Some sections of the press have
been full of adulation for Mr. Holt,
Minister for Labor and Industry, and Mr.
Albert Monk, that great traveller who is
looking forward to his next journey to
take part in the annual busybodyings of
the 1.L.0. But the fact is that the Minis-
ter for Labor has trod very softly and
that the A.C.T.U.’s withdrawal from the
dispute looks like a planned surrender at
the right time, since the movers for it
inside the A.C.T.U. were the F.E.D.F.A., a
union closely in touch and sympathy with
Healy and his fellow-conspirators, one
which has just admitted Comrade Ernest
Thornton to membership after he had
been rejected by the Ironworkers with
the support of the judges of the
Industrial Commission.
The Federal Government needs some
other policy than that of continuously
parleying with malignly-intentioned Com-
munist leaders who care nothing for their
members’ interests and are intent only on
producing disruption.
N.S.W. Starters for March 3
When nominations closed on Friday for
the N. S. Wales elections —only four days
after Premier Cahill had announced
March 3 as polling-day—232 names were
lodged with the electoral officers. “Labor”
is putting-up 83 candidates and the
Opposition parties 92 (Liberals, 68 ;
Country-party, 24). There will also be 29
Communists, 22 Independents, four
Independent Labor and two Lang Labor
candidates.
Eight seats will be uncontested —two of
them held by the Government, six by the
Opposition. “Labor” walkovers are
Cobar (Minister for Transport Wetherell)
and Liverpool (N. J. Mannix). Liberal
gifts are Burwood (Dr. Parr), Eastwood
(E. Hearnshaw) and Gordon (Stewart
Fraser). Country-party men unopposed
are I. Robinson (Casino), R. B. Gamack
(Raleigh) and Col. Bruxner, the party
leader (Tenterfield). Two Country-party
men (W. R. Weiley, the sitting member,
and G. R. Munro) will contest Clarence
without interference from other parties.
In addition to the seats mentioned,
“Labor” did not nominate candidates in
Liberal-held Collaroy (R. W. Askin),
Vaucluse (Murray Robson), Woollahra
(Vernon Treatt) and Country-party seat
Byron (S. T. Stephens). Independents will
contest all four seats, and there’s a Com-
munist as well standing for Collaroy. In
Phillip (Lud Mayor Hills) and Redfern
(F. Green) the sitting “Labor” members
will shadow-spar against Communists,
and in Waratah “Labor” nominee H.
Sheedy will be up against two Independ-
ents and a Communist. Kahibah is
another seat without an official Opposition
candidate. “Labor” is running R.
McCartney against Independent “Labor”
member T. Armstrong, and J. Richley is
standing as an Independent.
The other Independent “Labor” mem-
ber, J. Chalmers, has switched from
Hartley to Nepean, where there’ll be a
four-cornered fight, the others being
W. L. Chapman (Liberal), A. E. Bennett
(“Labor”) and M. J. McCalman (Com-
munist).
Liberal and Country-party candidates
will not clash in any electorate at present
held by the Opposition, but the parties
are running rival candidates in five
“Labor” seats, all of which are possible
swingers. These are Dubbo (sitting mem-
ber, C. G. Robertson), Liverpool Plains
(R. B. Nott), Monaro (J. W. Seiffert),
Mudgee (L. M. Nott) and Young (F. J.
Cahill).
The Lang “Labor” men are Chris.
Lang, who had one term in Parliament
after the Big Fella went to Canberra,
and M. J. Callinan. Lang is contesting
the old family seat, Auburn; Callinan
is storming King.
Arbitration and Powers
“In the ACT”: In underlining the
paradox which faces Australia —the
avoidance of unification while securing
a unitary outlook on the part of institu-
tions concerned with the industrial and
economic set-up —the Prime Minister put
his finger on a crucial issue of current
and future politics. The immediate pro-
blem, as Mr. Menzies told the council
of the Liberal party in Canberra, is to
find some way of bringing the basis of
principle and the practices of Federal
and State industrial tribunals into line.
At present, as he warned, chaos waits on
the differing decisions of the tribunals,
because a sense of injustice develops, there
are strikes and stoppages, production
falls, costs rise, and inflation develops.
Earlier in his address, the Prime Mini-
ster had declared that his party believed
in Federalism because the freedom of the
people was protected by a division of
authority; because in the division of
power and in the checks and balances of
a true democracy the liberty of the citi-
zen was preserved. ' This sentiment, he
obviously realised, seemed somewhat at
variance with his later references to the
division of authority between the tri-
bunals. He admitted that the results of
that division were one of the prices
paid for freedom, and proceeded to
demonstrate, clearly and logically, • that
the nation could no longer afford to
allow it to continue. He admitted, too,
that the process wouldn’t be easy, and
that moves for a solution must depend
on the political complexion in the States
“and a mass of other circumstances.”
There was immediate reaction
from some unionists, declaring that they
would oppose “extension of the powers of
the Federal Arbitration Court,” and that
all that was needed for perennial indus-
trial peace and happiness was another
£2 a week or so. No heed was paid, at
any rate in public, to the statement that
until we could get rid of the constant
battle between the tribunals “not by some
overriding Constitutional change but by
sensible understanding and accommoda-
tion,” then the nation and its Govern-
ments would not be at the beginning of
the task of getting rid of the constant
battle between employer and employee.
All this was said against the back-
ground of the' negotiations then in pro-
gress which it was hoped would settle
the waterfront strike. It was perhaps not
the atmosphere to suggest calm and
impartial discussion between Common-
wealth and States, and between em-
ployers and their employees, but this
doesn’t detract from the urgency of the
problem, or from the overwhelming need
for early moves to secure such talks, and
to follow the talks with action.
Respectable Baldheads
“Baldhlads, old, respectable bald-
heads,” said Yeats, rather rudely, think-
ing of the critics and professors analys-
ing Catullus, would edit and annotate
the lines which the poet had tossed out
“to flatter beauty’s ignorant ear” ; and
indeed it seems similarly odd, without
any disrespect to the professorial pro-
fession, to think of the proposed Chair of
Australian Literature at Sydney Uni-
versity;
Christopher Brennan was of course
learned enough to make an entirely
appropriate study for the universities;
William Gosse Hay was insufficiently
obscure; Baylebridge more than suffi-
ciently forbidding. But Hugh McCrae
must grin to think of his carefree love-
lyrics the subject of earnest study; the
bohemian Lawson and the simple bush-
man Steele Rudd would be staggered;
and even Joseph Furphy, learned enough
as he was in his homespun way, could
hardly have expected ever to be so
respectable.
Still, odd or not, this body of worth-
while literature does exist, and is truly
a proper subject for study in Australian
universities: so that standards may be
established and maintained, so that the
light may shine upon the young. And,
if we don’t‘'appreciate ourselves, nobody
else will.
The senate of Sydney University—first
in the field; though Mr. T. Inglis Moore
is lecturing in Australian literature at
Canberra —has approved “in principle”
of establishing a chair. The money to
do it, the University being as broke as
ever Henry Lawson was, has to come
from private sources.
There is talk of a public appeal for
funds; and it is said that it costs about
£70,000 to endow a chair. If the public
is asked for money there couldn’t be a
cause more to the nation’s credit; and
it is a unique opportunity for some
wealthy benefactor to support, and there-
by join, his country’s immortals.
Same Old Story
Since 1890 it is doubtful if eastern
Australia has known such weather ks
last week’s, when the rain which had
worked its way down through Asia was
pouring down on Queensland and had
penetrated on a very large scale into
New South Wales.
At the time of the great rainfalls in
the last decade of the nineteenth century
a flooded west-of-Queensland, or even a
flooded Hunter or Hawkesbury River,
was reasonably local in its effects. But
with growing population, industrialisa-
tion, heavier stocking, more expensive
improvements in pasture and enclosure,
not to mention more intensive com-
munications, a flood of 1956 is a very
different matter from a flood of 1896.
In many areas, in the more highly-
populated districts of N. S. Wales in
particular, the flood danger would be
considerably mitigated if the great dam
projects of which the Cahill Government
boasts had been completed, as some of
them should have been years ago. But
no new dam seems to be taken, under
the N. S. Wales Government-stroke,
further than a point at which it can be
washed away wholly or in part by each
successive flood, so that the Government
and its museum-collection of labor can
begin afresh.
A great deal could be done in flood-
prevention and even in turning flood-
waters to some use by work on the
deepening, cleansing and straightening of
rivers, the provision of getaways which
would prevent floodwaters from piling-
up. Where and to what extent such works
could be made economically valuable,
is, however, another matter which needs
determination.
Certainly, the whole position should be
explored. It might be a very fit subject
for discussion at the' next Premiers’ con-
ference, or by some special conference or
special committee representative of the
eastern States which suffer most. A
committee would need a chairman who
knows the country—somebody like
W. L. Payne, president of the Queensland
Land Court, esteemed in his own State
as a capable and commonsense organiser.
Even if it didn’t pay to make a scheme of
river-treatment comprehensive over the
whole of the usual flood-areas there are
certainly some very important ones in
which capital-outlay would be more than
repaid within a few years.
The present method of paying for eacl)
flood as it comes and sitting down to
wait for the next represents an out-of-
date p.olicy of fatalism in these years of
heavy-duty machinery and broad think-
ing in the engineering world.
Afro-Asian Talks "Off"
“Mugga Way”: There is some reason
to believe that the proposed Afro-Asian
talks (the first were in Bandoeng last year)
have been postponed indefinitely. It was
originally proposed to hold the next con-
ference in Cairo about June, and some
preliminary sparring had taken place
behind the scenes on the subject of Aus-
tralian representation. Now, however, it
is felt by many of the nations concerned,
including some opposed to Communism,
that the next talks should await the
arrival of a more favorable atmosphere
in world politics. It is likely also that a
planned meeting of the “Colombo
Powers,” which was to have discussed
the date, venue and agenda of the Afro-
Asian conference, will be postponed
indefinitely.
The decision is not unanimous, and
some efforts may be made in certain
quarters to upset it. However, India and
Burma consider that tension between
Middle East countries, including some
which were at the conference in Bandoeng
and some which were not, makes the
present time an unfavorable one. Other
countries, including Ceylon, and perhaps
Indonesia, now wish to “wait and see”
what develops from the worsening world
situation, following the failure of the
Foreign Ministers’‘conference at Geneva,
the almost complete disappearance of the
“spirit of Geneva” and the recent attacks
in Asia by Russian leaders on Western
nations.
There is some uncertainty also con-
cerning moves in Africa. Asian nations
are watching closely the growth in South
Africa of the South African Bond, a new
middle party which professes dissatisfac-
tion with both Government and Opposi-
tion, and which is urging unity among
o Continued on next page)


the white peoples of the Union while at
the same time offering a greater measure
of freedom to native races through a
policy which will make them “supporters
and participants in the Western way of
life.” The Central African Federation
was invited to send a representative t 0(
Bandoeng, but didn’t accept. The problem
next time when the invitation-list is being
prepared will be to decide whether the
Federation and the Union should be
invited. In addition, the inclusion of
Israel and Australia offers some diffi-
culties to the sponsors. Perhaps it is as
well that the conference is “off” for the
present.
POLITICAL POINTS
Burgess and Maclean, who claim to
have been doing good deeds by stealth,
now blush to find it infamy.
• •
More by good fortune than by plan-
ning Lib.-leader Morton was first off the
mark in the N. S. Wales election-stakes.
When Cahill announced the election-date
the Liberals had already arranged a full-
scale “rally” at Sydney Town Hall for
last Thursday, with Morton billed to
explain the necessity for getting rid of
Cahill. The unexpected advancement of
polling-day didn’t affect the plans; it
merely gave more force to the meeting.
Morton’s address amounted to a pre-
liminary policy-speech, pushed in four
days ahead of Cahill’s (Monday-night)
and with his own official one to follow
on Tuesday (the 14th).
The presence on the platform of Col.
Bruxner, leader of the N. S. Wales
Country party, and most of his Parlia-
mentary team, was a personal triumph
for Morton. Both Jie and Bruxner
stressed the importance of the two
parties co-operating fully in the fight
against “Labor.” It is a pity the co-
operation doesn’t extend to the avoidance
of three-cornered contests, but as it is
too late to alter that now it is at least
comforting to find the two party-leaders
working together on close terms.
• •
Morton’s attacks on the Cahill Govern-
ment’s maladministration lacked nothing
in vigor and set a good tone for the con-
duct of the Opposition campaign. But
despite his keenness on the idea, there
is something anachronistic and unreal
about his proposed Bill of Rights.
It is reassuring to hear that a Liberal
Government would attempt to undo the
wrongs done by Cahill “Labor,” but
specific legislation to counter specific
injustices—a guarantee to pay a just price
for land-resumptions; repeal of com-
pulsory-unionism and so on —is better
than a blanket bill attempting to define
all the rights of a citizen.
Most of the “rights” listed by Morton
are already the birthright of all people
in British communities. The Cahill
Government has tampered with some of
them, and no doubt other Governments
in the future will make similar attempts
if it suits them, Bill of Rights or no Bill
of Rights.
• •
The real safeguard of the rights of the
people is the temper of the people. If a
people gets to the stage where it is no
longer jealous of its rights it will soon
lose them, no matter what the law says.
It is rather a paradox that Morton
cannot introduce his Bill of Rights unless
he wins the election, yet if he wins the
election the people, by voting him into
office, will have shown that his Bill of
Rights is unnecessary—that under the
present system they can still remove a
Government which attempts to trifle with
their rights.
• '•
South Australia will also have an elec-
tion on March 3. As a matter of fact
Playford thought of the idea before
Cahill. He’ll deliver his policy-speech at
Woodside this evening; Opposition-
leader O’Halloran said his say last night.
• •
Nehru says India cannot close its eyes
to military pacts like Seato and the
Baghdad Pact which “weigh the balance
towards war.” Strange! India seems per-
fectly able to close its eyes to Soviet and
Chinese acts which weigh the balance
towards war.
• •
The British Government proposes to
amend its Crimes Act to modify the
penalty for murder so that hanging will
be imposed only for the worst types of
cases. A motion foreshadowing this
comes before the Commons on Thursday,
and opponents of hanging intend to move
an amendment abolishing the death-
penalty altogether. The Government will
treat the motion as a non-party matter
and allow its members a free vote.
A Nobel-prize winner, Dr. Hermann
Muller, suggests that in an atomic war
old men should do the fighting “to avoid
hereditary damage to the human race.”
Political parties fight their wars that way
already.
• •
They’re giving the Victorian kangaroo
equality of treatment with the Victorian
abo, now. A Fisheries and Games De-
partment official found two kangaroos
browsing on a woman’s property at Fern-
tree Gully. They were described as look-
ing fit and quite contented within a 200 ft-
.-100 ft. wired enclosure. The woman
was fined £2 for keeping them in durance
vile and the animals were dumped in the
Melbourne Zoo.
• •
Arthur Calwell usually shows adroit-
ness on immigration questions, but he
fell in badly in criticising the N.Z. High
Commissioner for “attacking Australian
immigration laws and policy.” Mr.
Alderton, in a talk to the Council of
Adult Education summer school in
Hobart, said the encouragement of more
visits by Asian students to New Zealand
would foster good relations, but might
pose a future problem for the Dominion’s
restrictive-immigration policy, “which
might in consequence eventually require
some review.” Whatever may be felt
about that view, it obviously referred only
ALL DRESSED UP—BUT NO INVITATIONS
to New Zealand, and Calwell’s criticism
was unmerited. Has he apologised? Or
has he merely “cursed the press” for
presumably publishing a misleading
report?
• •
Cahill described Morton’s speech as
“a farrago of unadulterated political
nonsense.” How do you adulterate
political nonsense?
• •
The Anti-Communist “Labor” party
will be running a few candidates for the
S.A. election. There’s a suspicion that a
fear of some strange hats being thrown
into the ring in N. S. Wales was respons-
ible for Cahill’s indecent haste in closing
nominations. The election-date was
announced late on Monday last week;
nominations closed at noon on Friday.
In contrast, Playford announced his elec-
tions over a fortnight before Cahill, yet
nominations do not close until today.
• •
Two Liberal M.H.A.S lost their
endorsement in the L.C.L. plebiscite for
the South Australian election to be held
on March 3. Sir Robert Nicholls,
Speaker of the Assembly since 1933, was
unfortunate in that his electorate Young
was wiped out by last year’s redistribu-
tion. He contested the plebiscite for
Gouger, but was narrowly defeated by
sitting member R. F. Goldney. Nicholls
has been a member of the S.A, Assembly
since 1915, and his 23 years’ tenure of the
Speakership is a recoiti. The other to
miss out is J. L. Travers, Q.C., who won
Torrens —on the old boundaries, now con-
siderably changed—at the last election,
but has now lost the nomination to J. W.
Coumbe.
• •
“Stromlb”: Canberra’s inward and
outward mails, always appallingly slow,
have become much worse in recent weeks.
Airmail letters have been taking four
and five days to arrive from Melbourne
and Sydney (service the other way is
equally bad), and in many suburbs one
delivery daily has been cancelled. The
complaints have been long and loud, and
the new P.M.G. has a chance to insist
on improvements. Wonder if his mail is
being delayed?
• •
“W.O. 6”: As the Duntroon cadets
rehearsed in Canberra’s muggy heat last
Wednesday for the ceremonial portion
of the opening of Parliament a few of
them must have thought feelingly of the
Governor-General’s condemnation some
time ago of the vast numbers of flies in
the capital. Swarms of the pests gathered
around the cadets, but the ranks did not
waver or wave in the face of the enemy.
Flies, large and small, are as numerous
as evernthis season in spite of long spells
of cool weather. They’ll doubtless be
ready ror today’s proceedings, relishing
the thought of clambering over the unpro-
tected faces of the guard of honor and
the band.
• •
Victoria will have two by-elections on
March 3—the Mornington seat in the
Assembly and the Ballarat seat in the
Legislative Council. Assembly by-election
for Flemington will take place on
Saturday.
• •
The appearance of the Foreign Office
traitors Burgess and Maclean in Moscow
for a press interview further confirmed
the accuracy and knowledge of Petrov of
their movements. Each admitted that he
had been a Communist and that, in effect,
because he had failed to persuade the
Foreign Office to let them run its policy
according to the Soviet Union viewpoint,
they had silently disappeared in 1951, and
made a beeline to Moscow “to do what-
ever they could to further understanding
between East and West from there.” Then
they lay hidden for over five years, even
from the aged mother of one. Seems a
strange way of promoting peace. They
have both retired into hiding again after
the normal manner of rats.
• •
Egypt’s treacherous game became clear
this week when, having borrowed £7O
million sterling from the World Bank to
build the new Assouan Dam, it accepted
the Russian offer to build a nuclear-
physics laboratory in Cairo under the
hands of Russian technicians. At' the
same time Egypt'is openly arming with
aircraft, weapons and material from
behind the Iron Curtain. In other words,
a Russian base is being built up in Africa
threatening Australian and Indian Ocean
communications with Europe—our life-
line of trade.
• •
Time for lodging appeals against the
refusal of compensation claims by the
Cumberland County Council has been
extended to December 31, 1958, or within
two years of the date on which the
claim was refused.
• , •
At the end of September there were
369,409 aliens registered in the Common-
wealth. Italians (91,427) formed the
biggest national group; next came Poles,
49,337; Dutch, 42,682; Germans,
29,869; Greeks, 26,005; Lebanese,
24,545; Yugoslavs, 22,529; Latvians,
15,117; Ukrainians, 14,970; Hungarians,
10,530. Native-born Aussies now com-
prise 86 per cent, of the population,
compared with 90 per cent, at the 1947
census.
• •
Lang’s “Century,” nowadays a chief
cheer-leader for the Doc., with side-plugs
for Eddie Ward and Fixer Ashley, has
a debunking article on Eden-Monaro
Fraser, “the Upper Form essayist com-
peting for the prize that he hopes will
make him the envy of the school.”
The fable that Menzies flinches when
Fraser goes to the attack, that Menzies
wilts under the Fraser invective, that
Menzies quails when Fraser gets up and
proceeds to lay on the wood, is just another
of those Canberra fairy-tales which are
built-up over the years without any
substance to them.
Fraser has a good press—but so did
Evatt a few years ago.
• •
Ceylon’s Export and Import Corpora-
tion, which will be the largest Ceylonese-
owned corporation in the country, is
scheduled to begin business in March.
In addition to tea-exports, it will handle
most of the other important commodities
produced in Ceylon. Two of the leading
promoters, C. Loganathan, g.-m. of the
Bank of Ceylon, and H. W. Amarasuriya,
one of the largest tea-producers in Ceylon,
spent a few weeks in Australia recently
surveying the market.
• •
“Terry the Tory”: A Sydney lass, back
from a working holiday abroad, 1 in the
course of which she had a spell as matron
in a boys’ preparatory-school in Nicosia,
Cyprus, reported that:
A lot of the trouble in Nicosia is led by
schoolboys and schoolgirls who start street-
fights with sticks and stones. I was driving
in a car that had its windows smashed.
Elsewhere than in Cyprus schoolchildren
and young ’varsity-students play a big
part in initiating trouble. This is the
case in more than one Asian country
where Communispi or extreme national-
ism, or the two in alliance, have become
problems. It is Chinese high-school, even
primary-school, students who are the
most fanatical and violent champions of
Communism in Singapore and the F.M.S.
• •
“Jethro Tull,” resting on his hoe for a
moment, sends the following:
This inapplicability has been curiously
manifested during the embarrassment
caused by the late strikes of our workmen.
Here occurs one of the simplest cases, in a
pertinent and positive form, of the first
vital problem which political economy has
to deal with (the relation between employer
and employed); and, at a severe crisis,
when lives in multitudes and wealth in
masses are at stake, the political economists
are helpless practically mute; no
demonstrable solution of the difficulty can
be given by them, such as may convince or
calm the opposing parties. Obstinately the
masters take one view of the matter;
obstinately the operatives another; and no
political science can set them at one.
From the “Big Eight” of 1956? No, John
Ruskin, in the “Roots of Honour,” 1893.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Seems that women
migrants agree with members of the
A.B.C. about Parliamentary broadcasts.
Canberra branch of the National Coun-
cil of Women made a survey of the radio-
listening tastes of migrants. Of 52 New
Aussies 35 listened mostly to the local
commercial station and 17 to the A.8.C.,
although the Kindergarten of the Air
was highly popular; it scored 29
listeners, and the A.B.C. New Australian
programme was close behind with 24.
Other programmes were well down, and
tailing the field was Parliament, with a
miserable three. It’s time our political
orators did something about these broad-
casts, including a determination not to
exhaust their full time (and their
listeners) when they have little to say.
Terse, snappy speeches would get more
listening attention —and possibly more
votes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INK"
r pHE Juke of Kent . . .
❖ *z* *z*
“Nobs”: Nat King Cole may not have
been seeking asylum in Australia, but it
looks like he found one.
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: A Victorian sculptor carves
and models, carves and models, and after
a while is almost completely surrounded
with monumental works. Nobody buys
sculpture in Melbourne except official
jobs ; so every now and then he gets into
the position where he has worked himself
to a standstill. So he digs a big hole in
his backyard and tumbles all his busts
and figures into it, and starts all over
again. Otherwise his works would be a
glut on the market if there was a
market.
❖ ♦♦♦ • *
“M’boro”: In one of those deathless
commercial-radio plays:
Breathless henchman: You mean the Lady
Isabella’s life is in danger?
The gravely-voiced hero: Mortal danger!
♦X 4
“Rimutuka”: Looks like'a good row
brewing in Brisbane over that old war-
horse Sunday-sport. City Council says
“Thou shalt not,” but the tennis-boys
went ahead regardless with the
championship - matches. Of course,
heathens attending didn’t pay admission!
It was a “donation,” the notice said,
starting with £1 and raking-in a useful
, thousand-odd for the Q.L.T.A. And
► indeed the turnstile-official murmured a
polite “Thank you!” to each of the two-
thousand-odd “donors.”
♦♦+
“Spasebo”: There was a school-cadet
movement for the defence of South
Australia when I was a kid. That’s 60
years ago. The Russians were the
menace then, as now. They were
expected to invade the country any
moment, and South Australia’s fort and
warship were on the watch. We were
served with old Crimean War
but not with ammunition, and the day
before Queen Victoria’s Jubilee, at which
we were to be a guard-of-honor, we were
allowed to take our guns home. A boy
found a cartridge which fitted his gun,
and shot a farmer in the pants, so the
authorities decided that we were more
dangerous than the Russians and we were
disbanded.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Iirah”: No more am I sceptical of
Darwin’s Origin of Species. I saw,
within a few yards of each other:
a girl pulling from her boy-friend’s
back dry skin of recent sunburn,
and each piece was held in her
fingers and examined before throw-
ing it away; and a boy scratch-
ing sand from his girl-friend’s
scalp and every little while flip-
ping it out from under his nails to
examine it thoroughly on the palm
of his hand.
❖ ♦>
“Leech”: It was the medical
student’s first day in the Out
Patients Department. In tutorials
the necessity of “inspection”
as the first step in a careful examination
had been emphasised. The girl, about 18,
lay on the examination-couch, chest
bared. The student inspected, determin-
ing the position of the heart’s visible
throb, from the left, from the right, from
the head, from the feet... A pert voice
queried, “Well, d’you like ’em?”
“J.A.Y.”: The Pioneers’ Club in
Phillip-street used to be Paris House,
the most fashionable restaurant in
Sydney. A child just before World War
I, I dined there with my mother: a five-
course luxury meal for 2s. 6d. each. I
have seen a cartload of gill-birds,
shovelled into bags, carried into Paris
House. They came from the George’s
River, only 12 miles from Sydney. My
father often went shooting there on
Sundays. Another time I saw a
load of live green lobsters draw-up there.
Some crawled down wheels on t 6 the
footpath. Will we ever see such luxury
food by the cartload in the city again?
“Kate”: A Melbourne announcer
announced that Bill Johnston had “re-
nounced his attirement.” The announcer
quickly corrected himself, and alas we
are to see less, rather than more, of
Johnston’s form.
❖ ❖ *
“Youanmi”: It took me a moment to
spot the significance of the pen-name of
“Can’t waste time at Weddings!”
“Chas. E. Rattles,” who says his piece
in The Bulletin’s “0.F.M.” pages
from time to time. Somebody with
similar ideas was driving a truck over
Sydney’s harbor-bridge the name
painted on the front bumper was “Mrs.
Often.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Becks”: Pascal’s Triangle and
Binomial Coefficients (B. 8/2/’56) are
sound enough in their own field of
mathematics, but they don’t enter into 1
the problem of how many hat-tricks are
comprised in six wickets taken with six
successive balls. The question is not how
many combinations of three are involved,
but how many series of three successive
wickets. “Radula” can shuffle his race-
“Anyone seen my sun-glasses?”
horses around as much as he likes and
get different placings, but shuffling his
batsmen don’t alter the possible number
of hat-tricks. Take it like this. Abel,
Bradman, Collins, Darling, Edrich and
Fry are bowled with successive balls.
First hat-trick ABC, second BCD, third
CDE, fourth DEF. No amount of
juggling will produce any more. Some
schools of thought claim that there are
only two —ABC and DEF. The question
has a direct personal interest to me. In
my brief cricketing career I always
seemed to be sent in to bat in the middle
of someone’s hat-trick.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kia-Ora”: Where are the sago-grains
of yesterday? Today’s sago cooks in a
gooey mass.
❖ ❖
“Chubby”: Mr. and Mrs. Marriage
were divorced in Los Angeles, and in
New York three couples named Love
were divorced on the same day. In
Springfield, Illinois, Glen Faith was sued
for divorce, charged by his wife with
being unfaithful. Maybe because of the
new Faith that Love or Marriage by some
other name is infinitely sweeter.
*l* ❖ *>
“J.D.W.”: In “No Beauty Treatment”
(B. 11/1/’56) Nancy Cato errs,a little in
an otherwise near-perfect
vignette when she makes her
character remark, “I to the
hills will lift my nose, from
whence cometh my help.”
Nancy errs in good
company, including many
characters who should
know better, taking their
cue from the Authorised
Version, which makes the
firsf two verses of Psalm
121 read: “I will lift up
mine eyes unto the hills,
from whence cometh my
help. My help cometh from
the Lord, which made
heaven and earth.” Con-
sidered re-reading shows
there’s something wrong
with that punctuation. The
Revised Version clears
things up: “I will lift up mine
eyes unto the mountains: From whence
shall my help come? My help cometh
from the Lord. . . .” Cruden’s or any
other reputable concordance leaves no
doubt about the way a text so generally
used and widely misquoted should be
handled. Idea in the psalmist’s mind was
that taking an eyeful of the ageless hills
gave a reminder of the source of spiritual
strength.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Uramao”: No one can say why the
weeping tombstone in a Napier (N.Z.)
cemetery weeps. For months stone-
masons and sextons have studied it.
Someone with a chisel chipped away the
marble softened by the seepage, but,
penetrating to the hard core, failed to
find the cause; the sexton on examin-
ing the stone after the midnight-intruder
had done his work found the water still
oozing out of the marble, 30ft. above the
ground. So many sightseers have visited
the cemetery that the authorities are con-
cerned at possible interference. Anglican
and R.C. clergymen have inspected the
stone and the spiritualist body held a
service there.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“J.E.M.”: On hearing the wharfies
had posted pickets to guard the wharves
I imagined a scene of militancy and
sentry-go. But I was sadly disillusioned.
They read comics and study the racing-
guide.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: The list of “credits”
preceding Hollywood films grows ever
longer, but the surveyor in “Interrupted
Melody” was completely ignored. What
did he do? Well, who but a surveyor
could have set the levels for the Diggers’
hats in the sequence when Marjorie
Lawrence sings to Australian troops?
Chance could not have placed those
cadies so absolutely, faultlessly level—
nor made Hollywood extras look so
utterly unlike Diggers.
❖ ❖ ❖
'T'HE Victorian police-radio has become
-*• extremely popular with Melbourne
listeners. Perhaps it is the reality behind
laconic announcements or the jolt the
one-sided messages give to imaginations,
or the occasional humor. For instance,
the announcer told one of his cars that
out Newmarket way there was a truck
and in the truck was a big bull and a
little bull. He had been informed that
the big bull was attacking the little bull,
and the people out Newmarket way
thought something should be done,
because the big bull, in attacking the
little bull, might hurt the little bull.
Would the police please do something
about restraining the big bull? He
paused, and, after a tense moment,
inquired if car number so-and-so had
received the message, and advised pro-
ceeding about the job with some caution,
as it seemed to him to be a lot of bull.
—“lago.”
LAMENT OF ONE LEFT-OUT
“Names are included only on achievement.” —
Mr. Joseph Alexander, editor of Who’s Who
in Australia, interviewed after publication of
the 1955 edition.
With Alexand-
Er’s famous men
I took my stand . . .
But that was then ;
You must persist
With what you do
Or not exist
In his “Who's Who.”
He knew me well
In years long sped,
Then, sad to tell,
He cut me dead ;
Like Paterson’s
Decayed Carew
I am — no, once
Was—in “Who's Who.”
I’ll write a new
“Who’s Who,” to be
Devoted to
No one but me ;
And friends ashamed
And friends untrue
Will not be named
In my “Who’s Who.”
And when I’m fam-
ous once again
Perhaps he’ll claim
“I knew him when . . .”
And then I’ll sneer:
“The hell with you !
I won’t appear
In your ‘Who’s Who’!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


BY next spring German pedestrians
will be wearing reflector-spurs ; three
small glass beads fixed on the heel of
each boot or shoe so that the nightly
wayfarer will reflect back motor-
headlights. Thus motorists will be
confirmed in their opinion that
pedestrians are only a lot of
heels.—“C-Q”
♦> ♦> *
“Simon”: Mum and Dad were talk-
ing, and Mum’s lip was down like a
motherless foal’s as usual. “Cheer-up,”
says Dad; “count your blessings one by
one.” Mum says, “I don’t know what my
blessings are.” “Well, for one thing,”
says Dad, “you had a good husband.”
Then 10-year-old Margy pipes up,
“Mother, were you married twice?”
* ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: In William Faulkner’s
Sanctuary it says, “Through the open
window [in a house opposite] Horace
could see the court-house, with men pitch-
ing dollars back and forth between holes
in the bare earth beneath the locust and
water oaks.” Pitching dollars? As
Webster gives no meaning for % dollar
other than the monetary one, and so
allows of no other explanation of the
passage, I assume the prisoners were
indulging in the American equivalent of
our national pastime, tossing-up an
almighty or two in place of our duet of
browns.
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.M.”: The wharf-strike has meant
that no overseas ships will be “available
to lift Tasmania’s early apple- and pear-
crop until late February or early March.
Processors won’t be in the race to take all
the fruit offering, and the overflow could
easily find its way to the local market,
where fruit of export-quality is ordinarily
either unprocurable or at an exorbitant
price.
❖ ❖ ❖
“M.”: Brisbane, 1956. She snatched
the brief opportunity in between black-
outs to get the iron heated. Iron half-
hot, off power. Heated (mentally and
physically), she turned on the water-tap
for a glass of sustenance. Hissing, naught
else. “Now we’ve got no water!”
Exasperated cry from outside the flat:
“Give us five minutes, lady, for the love
of Mike! ” Plumber —water-trouble up-
stairs. So at least we still drink.
❖ ♦>
“Mick o’Melbourne”: The Navy’s
“Bootnose” listed by Les Such in his
parade of Service nicknames (B.
18/1/’56) isn’t the only “Bootnose”
known to fame. Have just been reading
Billy Hill’s masterpiece Boss of Britain’s
Underworld, in which he gives the names
of a number of his gangsters, and
“Bootnose” is one of them. I had
thought that Damon Runyon’s Broad-
way characters were imaginary, but Hill’s
outfit included “Horrible Harry,”
“Square Georgie,” “The Lemon Drop
Kid,” “Odd Legs,” “Strong Arms Phil,”
“Bert the Long Reach,” “Wide Gaiters”
and “Italian Albert.” Those who
patronised the club run by Hill included
“Sid the Burglar,” “Bear’s Breath,”
“Soapy Alec,” “Blueball,” “Kipper
Johnny the Spiv,” “Alec the Poof,”
“Tony the Wop” and “Chuck-a-Dummy
Maxie ” Also there were “Madhouse,”
“Crime Don’t Pay,” “Paddy the Creep,”
“Flannel Foot,” “Sly Boots” and
“Bananas.” All-in-all, it seems we did
the right thing in keeping Mr. Hill out
of Australia.
* ♦;* ❖
“Bo”: If only, just to break the
pattern, some race-broadcaster were to
start his description in a frenzy of
hysteria, drop his tempo and volume to
a drawl as they hit the straight, and
deliver himself of a loud yawn as the
mokes are about to flash past the
finishing-post!
♦> ❖
“A.R.”: In the window of a Mel-
bourne suburban shop is displayed:
“Come in! A hearty welcome awaits
you—if you have cash.” The shopkeeper
is said to have practically no bad debts.
❖ ❖ *
“P.0.M.C.”: A visiting newspaper
tycoon said at a dinner how surprised he
was that Australian journals didn’t use
more women as reporters —women, he
said, have a natural instinct for news.
His surprise will be shared by many
husbands and fathers wives and
daughters have such natural voices for.
circulating (especially intimate) informa-
tion, too.
* *
“Kesem”: What is news about a
young woman sauntering through a
picture-gallery doing her knitting,
“Mac Hoots” (B. 25/1/’56)? My mother
could knit and read at the same time,
also knit in the dark. Once a rush job
asked for a pair of men’s socks in a day,
four skeins of four-ply wool were used-
up in less than 12 hours, with some
housework in between. She knitted as
the hill-women in Wales did; they kept
up their purl-and-plain as they descended
the hills on their way to market, keeping
a watch on their pannier-laden ponies.
And that the women of Paris could knit
while heads fell from the guillotine is
some explanation why they should not
be interrupted by the horrors of art-
moderne.
>l* *i* *>
“Emjai”: I well recall Pop’s Melbourne
pie-cart. Some time before World War I
there was another on about the same site,
towards Prince’s Bridge from the Swan-
ston-Flinders-streets intersection ; in those
“I appeal to you as a patriotic Australian , as a family-man and as a
fellow-worker. I need a job!"
, . .
days of late closing, if we missed the 1
train from Flinders-street, the shot was o
buy a pie (or a couple) soused with
tomato-sauce, and take Shank s Express
for the six-mile-distant suburb, dining
scrumptiously as we trudged. A better
programme was to catch the 11. :>O-tram
for down the line, break journey at
South Yarra and dodge around the corner
to the Hole-in-the-wall m the little lane
right against the line, a doorway cut m a
high advertisement-hoarding, Behind it,
unsuspected by day, was a lean-to shack
covering a set-up of stoves and hot-
“He's writing a novel."
plates, marble-top benches, pad cook in
immaculate white dispensing sizzling
steak-and-eggs, snags, savs and pies,
cooked in full view and to order. A
silver coin to the station porter ensured
a whistle on approach of the midnight
train and its being held until we scrambled
aboard.
* ❖
“Dorian”: Have always disliked the
organ-stop termed, hopefully, “vox
humana,” though it’s popular with the
cinema-organist fraternity ; I’ve heard it
on every Sydney theatre-organ. My
aversion isn’t unsupported ; the great Dr.
Burney, referring to the “vox,” wrote:
No such stop, in the treble part, has ever
reminded me of anything human, so much as
the cracked voice of an old woman of ninety,
or, in its lower parts, of Punch singing through
a comb.
❖ *> ❖
“0.W.W.”: A young soldier in an N.Z.
kilted regiment tells me he no longer
goes in kilts to public dances. “A soldier
in kilts,” he says, “is in greater moral
danger from dames round thirty to well
beyond forty than a girl in a bikini
would be from wolves at a wild party.”
“G.M.”: On board tbe tied-up
freighter Karoon at Hobart’s Princess
Wharf were four Western Australian
sharpies, over for the Australian
championships. It had c6st the sharpies
crews more than £lOO to bring each boat
from the West, besides personal expenses.
Striking waterside-workers, who would
bear-up against any slur except that of
not being sportsmen, offered to unload
the “special cargo,” and a gang of 22
magnanimous men turned up. This was
about five or six times the number re-
quired to handle a sharpie, even full of
water, so the ship’s agents objected. The
wharfies argued, but eventually, by com-
promise, a gang of 13 men did the job.
“Embee”: To “Jurumudi” (B.
25/1/’56). There must be many puzzled
ex-brides in Johore, The assumption
that there be evidence of the bride’s
virginity on the thrown bedsheet passeth
understanding, and can only be described
as arrant poppycock.
“A.”: At “The Summer of the 17th
Doll” I laughed at the Australian idiom,
so well caught by Ray Lawler; the
benign- and intellectual-looking gentle-
man in the next seat laughed, too. But
he was having the old trouble with his
wife: everybody laughs, benign gentle-
man laughs, wife, hard either of hearing
or comprehending, inquires the cause of
mirth. There was quite a laugh when
Lawler, playing the part of canecutter-
Barney, points accusingly at the dis-
traught barmaid: “Don’t tell me she’s
jibbing at her age!” Benign gentleman
very merry ; then the inevitable “What did
he say?” Benign gentleman, clearly,
“Don’t tell me she’s gibbering at her age! ”
Wife laughs. The gentleman, I con-
sidered, was benign, anyway.
*X+ *X* ❖
“Zake”: Another reflection of Sydney’s
housing-shortage. One of those 4ft.-
square, portable galvanised lavs, used by
railway-fettlers, temporarily parked in-
side the railway-fence between Newtown
and Stanmore on the main suburban
line, carries this huge notice: Vacant
Possession. For Auction.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Froth”: The waiter informed the
desirous whisky- and gin-addicts that beer,
only, was served in the beer-garden.
♦j* $ ♦>
GLAD to see that with peep-holes and
progress-bulletins on building-sites
the building-trade has recognised a need.
The next step is to demand silence during
moments of suspense. Having re-routed
my trips round Adelaide to pass the new
twelve-storyer going up in Gawler-place,
I caught the crane swinging up a piece
of timber far too awkward; a fellow
with a whistle riding it. As the jib
swung round, I knew it wouldn’t clear
the last lot of girders. But then, so help
me, if some galoot doesn’t walk the
girder out towards it and sit himself on
the very cornermost stanchion! It was
a monty he was going to get swept clean
off. Now the load was inches away from
the girder. The timber dipped and
swayed on its hook. The fellow on the
whistle sounded-off continuously, with
no apparent effect, while the chap on his
12in. perch had but a fraction of a
second left in this world. At that
moment some clown in the shop behind
where I was standing dropped nothing
lighter than a refrigerator. By the time
I had my eyelids reopened and my heart
massaged into working-order, the piece
of timber was safe in its place.— “Bosco,”
A MODEST PRIDE
That Hoad is a menace
To others at tennis
I grant, right away.
He mostly precise is,
Yet I have seen slices
He made go astray.
Now, faults I confess to,
Yet this I express to
Young Lew —if he’d see
A slice that’s unfailing
With ball I’m assailing,
Then let him watch me!
Oh, I’ll admit Miller’s
Best hooks can be thrillers,
Yet, make no mistake.
Though mine’s not like his stance,
There’s vastly more distance
In hooks that I make.
He masses, moreover,
Perhaps one an over —
Just swishes his bat.
A quid to a penny
I never miss any !
Let Keith hook on that!
For years I watched Bradman.
Now, he wasn’t bad, man!
His car pet-drive had
Lots of power, I concede it,
And few could impede it,
Yes, he wasn’t bad.
Yet, I’ve seen Don lift one
To fieldsman, a “gift” one
That smothered his flame.
He wasn’t that clever!
Now, my drives, they never
Rise . . . Golf is my game.
MS.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Winston Churchill’s latest title is
Grand Seigneur of the Company of
Adventurers of England Trading into
Hudson’s Bay. The appointment is an
honorary one intended to “do honor to
the greatest living statesman and to re-
new the company’s link with the illus-
trious name of Churchill.” Winnie’s
ancestor the Duke of Marlborough was
the third governor of the Hudson’s Bay
company.
• •
XT c XT .. , ~ ~.
When N.S.W. National Opera opened its
four-week, 19-town tour with “Madame
Butterfly at Lithgow last Monday
musical-director Georg Tintner reverted
to 18th-century practice and conducted
from the piano. Viennese-born, Tintner
was for four years a member of that city s
CONDUCTOR
famous boys’ choir. After his voice
broke he put in seven years at the State
Academy of Music studying the piano—
composition under Joseph Marx, and con-
ducting under the great Weingartner. In
1940 he went to New Zealand, and
in between conducting concerts for the
Auckland Choral Society and the Auck-
land String Players ran a farm (which he
still owns). He was conductor for
National Opera’s 1954 New Zealand
tour, and has piloted the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra and the Sydney
String Orchestra. A vegetarian—he even
shuns dairy-products—he sustains a
bustling energy on nuts, fruit and vege-
tables. Among his compositions are a
violin sonata and a wad of songs.
• •
Too-old-at-sixty got a severe jolt at
Mansfield (Vic.) races when Arthur
Warhurst entered his gelding Lilting
Title in the Corinthian Handicap for
professional and amateur riders. War-
hurst got his first licence to ride 54 years
ago, in the year The Victory won the
Melbourne Cup. As owner, trainer and
jockey, he has been connected with the
Turf ever since. He told the stewards he
was as fit as a fiddle, could ride, had.
ridden the same horse as far as Griffith
(N.S.W.), and was the right weight. Any
more objections? They couldn’t think of
any. Warfield got up, led all the way and
won by six lengths.
• •
Birmingham (Eng.) is to have an Aus-
tralian-born Lord Mayor, though he can
hardly claim to remember much about
his birthplace. He’s Ernest William
Apps, whose parents migrated to Aus-
tralia over 60 years ago and settled at
Kingswood, near Penrith (N.S.W.). They
didn’t stay long; they were back in the
old home town before young Ernest was
two years old. In Birmingham they
established a furniture-business; the
son’s now its managing-director, and has
been an alderman for 21 years.
• •
Following on the resourceful, and
game, action of conductress Elizabeth
Cott (B. 8/2/’56), Tramways chairman
Rissori announces that Melbourne will
have women drivers “within a fortnight.”
They’ll be drawn from the ranks of the
ticket-punchers—which shows that ex-
ample is worth a ton of argument.
Charles Ruthven Bickerton Blackburn,
who succeeds Professor Lambie in the
Chair of Medicine at Sydney University,
is a man who has followed in his father’s
footsteps, but has made footprints of his
own. Blackburn, senior, first lectured in
Clinical Medicine at Sydney Uni. in 1912.
He became Dean of the Medical Faculty
in 1933 and Chancellor of the University
in 1941. The son graduated M. 8., B.S.
in 1937, gained a doctorate in 1939,
and was admitted to the Royal
College of Physicians, London, the same
year. For the next six years he served
with the Second A.1.F., as his father had
done with the First. Thereafter he put
in- two years at Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons in
New York, and in 1949 became director
of clinical-research at Sydney’s Royal
Prince Alfred. He has lectured in both
'the medical and dental faculties at Sydney
University, and has been a Fellow of the
Royal Australasian College of Physicians
since 1953.
• •
Bernard Jeffriess, Queensland’s newest
Supreme Court judge, has been a barrister
for over 30 years and has had his stamp
on the Commonwealth Law Reports for
longer than that—reporter for them, and,
since 1929, for those of his own State, too.
Cunnamulla-born, he’s the author of
textbooks on the duties of auctioneers
and J.P.s.
s • •
“C. 8.”: The best story I know of
H. L. Mencken he told me himself. A
great admirer of The Bulletin and a
passionate anti-prohibitionist, when the
war between the Wets and Drys was at
its height he sent a pair of trenchant
articles to The Bulletin which were
printed in successive numbers. In the
United States he was accustomed to get-
ting hundreds of pounds for an article,
which would be syndicated in a hundred
papers. The Bulletin sent him a sum
calculated at its usual lineage-rate.
Amused, but not offended, he framed the
cheque and hung it on his wall.
• •
“N.A.8.”: When K. R. Winn, of
Winns, Ltd., Newcastle, goes on a busi-
ness-trip to Britain next month the Coal
City’s Chamber of Commerce will be
without a Winn for the first time in 40
years. In 1916 his half-brother, W. A.
Winn, joined that body, and the family
has been represented ever since.
• • i
Over half-a-century in the building-
game and all of it with the one firm
(Stuart Brothers), H. McMaster has been
in Brisbane for 30 years, but Sydney still
carries a couple of landmarks which
afford him some pride. One is the old
“Daily Telegraph” building on the corner
of King- and Castlereagh-streets, now a
branch of the Bank of New South Wales ;
he supervised its erection. The other is
David Jones’ main store; he dug the
hole. A partner in the firm since 1930,
CONSTRUCTOR
and now a director, he has also had a
hand in changing the skyline of Brisbane,
particularly along the waterfront, where
Stuarts’ built most of the wool-stores at
New Farm and Bulimba.
• •
Tossing his third salute to Australia,
General James G. Steese, a strapping,
square-chinned 74, who retired from the
U.S. Army in 1947, after 45 years’
service. First here at 25, he was back
three years ago. His present object is to
see more of Melbourne and Tasmania. In
Fremantle he stressed the importance of
Alaska as a strongpoint of defence of
America against possible air-attack across
the top of the world. Steese had much to
do with the construction of the Alaska
railway, of which he was first chairman.
• •
Jails and stone-cracking are tradition-
ally associated with each other, so there’s
nothing incongruous in the former
DEPUTY-TOP-COP
manager of Quarry Industries, Ltd.,
Adelaide, being appointed Deputy Police
Commissioner for South Australia.
Brigadier J. G. McKinna brings to the
job a wide experience in commerce,
mining, engineering, management and
staff-organisation, and a solid background
of military service. Early in War II he
was an engineer-officer in the 2/3 Pioneer
Battalion. He transferred to the
2/27 Infantry Battalion for three years,
but returned to his old unit in 1943 as
second-in-command and a year later was
C.O. of 25 Battalion. Active service in-
cluded the Middle East, New Guinea and
Bougainville; decorations, D.S.O. and
E.D. Continuing with the militia after
the war, he was until recently in com-
mand of the 7th Infantry Brigade.
• •
After 30 years in the W.X. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Dr. T. C. Dunne,
chief plant-nutrition and -research
officer, becomes deputy-director. He
joined the staff of the Muresk Agri-
cultural College after graduating in Ag.
Science at W.A. University, did post-
graduate work in California (where he
bagged the Ph.D.), then studied English
grasslands before going back to Muresk.
He was in charge of the production and
control of vegetable-seeds in Westralia,
and has been closely associated with
the Esperance Downs research-station,
which has, in a few years, been respon-
sible for the successful development of
more than two-million acres in that
coastal area. Also, under his direction
a research-programme of general plant-
nutrition has made possible the develop-
ment of flax-, fruit-, banana- and
tobacco-growing.
• •
Final chapter in a success-story was
written with the death in Brisbane, at
52, of O. K. McAnulty, who crossed
from New Zealand 30 years ago and
began making cheese in a small shed—
about 1001 b. a week. He sold it, on foot,
to sipall stores. By War II his company
—Maxam Cheese Pty.—was producing
80,0001 b. a day ; tons of the product went
to troops overseas. When, in 1947
(through polio) he sold his business, it
had a turnover of something like £1
million.
• •
Two New Zealanders, A. M. Hamilton
and G. D. White-Parsons, have been
awarded £14,000 by the British Govern-
ment in recognition of great services in
war and peace. Both products of the
School of Engineering at Canterbury
College (N.Z.), they developed a multi-
truss, multitier bridge, easily and rapidly
erected or extended. These Hamilton-
Callender bridges were extensively used in
repairing war-damage and in spanning
rivers in Europe, India, South Africa,
Ceylon and Abyssinia, and they’re now
widely used for peace-time purposes.
Part of their name comes from the
Callender Cable and Construction Co.,
which White-Parsons joined when he went
to England from N.Z. 24 years back. Pre-
war, Hamilton was in charge of a, section
of the road which opened-up Irak and
incidentally led him into writing his very
readable Through Kurdistan.
• •
Arrived in Sydney for a six-weeks’
tour of Australia, M. F. Verity, vice-
president-at-large of the Massey-Harris-
Ferguson organisation. He’s here to make
a survey of Australian business condi-
tions and look over the extensions to
the big plant at Sunshine (Vic.). First
stage of his itinerary includes overnight
stops at Orange, Dubbo, Moree,
Warwick, Toowoomba and Brisbane.
Thence to Melbourne, Adelaide and
Perth. A New Zealand tour follows.
• •
One of New Zealand's few baronets is
listed in Burke’s Peerage as Sir Basil
Malcolm Arthur, fifth baronet, of Manga-
kino, Waikato, Nelson. His job is lugging
and stacking in a timber-yard, and he has
no intention of changing it. The first
baronet, Sir'George Arthur, was Gover-
nor of Tasmania from 1824 to 1837, was
later Governor of Upper Canada and of
Bombay, and Provisional Governor-
General of India. The third baronet, Sir
George Compton Arthur, was private-
secretary to Kitchener, whose life he
wrote: he was author of several other
biographies, including those of George V,
Earl Haig and Sarah Bernhardt, and
at 70 put his own memoirs into book-
form under the title Septuagenarian
Scrapbook. The New Zealand baronet
is secretary of the Mangakino branch of
the N.Z. Workers’ Union. Hp’s 27,
plays football, and has a two-year-old
son. His title came to him when his
father, a Nelson hotelkeeper, died in
1949.
• •
A. F. Smyth came from the Queens-
land cattle-country. A brother still
raises Herefords on Cattle Creek, Mun-
gungo, and walks the best of ’em down to
Gladstone, but A.F. long ago gave it
away for journalism. Country-press
work preceded his breaking-into the
game in Sydney. Hitler’s war put him
into the R.A.A.F., where, as a member
of a Walrus-seaplane crew attached to
ARMY P.R.O.
armed - merchant - cruiser Manoora, he
saw his first hot shots fired when the Japs
bombed Singapore. A spell with Army
Co-op. Squadron, Canberra, then posted
to S.W.P.A. as public-relations officer,
covering the R.A.A.F. show in New
Guinea, air-missions over Rabaul, a
beach-landing with the Yanks, and back
with the Navy for a coastal shelling. He
was jointly responsible for the Beaufort-
bomber story A Nation Grew Wings,
published in 1947, when, as one reviewer
said, “most people (except nostalgic
servicemen) wanted to forget the war
of long, long ago.” After the war Smyth
returned to journalism, as agricultural-
editor of a Melbourne daily, then back to
public-relations, this time with the Army,
stationed in turn in Perth, Brisbane and
Melbourne. Latest appointment, p.r.o.
at Sydney, Eastern Command H.Q., with
rank of lieut.-colonel.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Wahroonga (Sydney), Pastor A. H. Piper,
first Seventh Day Adventist missionary sent
from Australia to the South Pacific. That was
in 1898. When he retired in 1950 he was
general-secretary of the Adventist Church for
Australia and the Pacific Islands. Bom at
Christchurch (N.Z.) in 1875, he entered his
Churches missionary college at Cooranbong,
near Newcastle (N.S.W.) in 1897.
In Sydney, at 55, Max Murray, journalist
and author of many successful detective and
mystery novels.
In Adelaide, at 73, Dr. A. J. Schuk,
principal of Adelaide Teachers’ College for
years to 1948, and for most of that tune
lecturer in Education and tutor in German at
Adelaide University.
At Scone (N.S.W.), at 70, Oswald Barton,
youngest son of Australia’s first Prune
Minister. A medico in Scone for more than
a quarter of a century, and, for a longish spell,
Mayor.


SHORT-RANGE FORECAST


ABORIGIANLITIES
/VN the Western Mail, well out in
Queensland, our carriage was
invaded by a couple of half-stonkered
ringers from way back who had
a goodly supply of bottled-stuff to
help them onward. They were jovial,
and generous, and took no offence when
I politely refused to join. At a wayside
stop the big one, opening another bottle,
happened to look put the window at a
sign outside a house: “Vacancies for
Boarders.” “Strike me roan! ”he roared,
“I never paid Mrs. So-and-so that three-
quid for board last year when I was in
here from the Condamine!” With that
he grabbed his gear, left the bottled-
stuff to his mate, and jumped out of the
train as it started off. I watched him
weaving carefully across the roadway to
pay his debt, half-empty bottle in one
hand and his thin horseman’s-swag in
the other. His mate said, “Stiffen the
crows! ”—“Greenhide Bob,”
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Roaring flames and
blackened, sweating f ettlers with
knapsack-sprays have invaded the 18-mile
wildflower-garden on both sides of the
railway-line in the Grampians district
(Vic.). It happens every year, and
everything’s in order. The bountiful
variety of flowers have bloomed their
cycle, leaving behind the now-brownish
parent shrubbery. Soon the strip will be
only the scorched earth of a firebreak,
but next spring the garden will be there
again in its full glorious color. Could
Nature be more generous with her
timing?
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Back in 1936 I saw a
man who was collecting £6 a week to sit
behind a tree and read books and maga-
zines all day. An Italian tomato-grower
had bought an old steam-engine to pump
water for irrigation. An inspector
marked the boiler as fit to stand no more
than 251 b.-pressure, and told its owner
he’d have to employ a licensed man to
run it. The holder of a steam-driver’s
ticket was found, but even with the
throttle wide open the 251 b.-pressure
turned the centrifugal-pump so slowly
that only trickles came from the
sprinklers. The owner demanded more
water. “Not on your life!” said the
driver. “I’m not firing her to above the
pressure allowed by that inspector.”
“Poke-a da blooda wood in,” pleaded
Guiseppe; “take-a da risk!” No go.
So Guiseppe took over the job of firing
and the driver retired to reading behind
the tree.
* * * *
“Noah”: To have a day’s fishing in the
bush in Victoria every angler now has to
have a licence, with stringent regulations.
You can’t leave your rod unattended;
you can’t fish with certain bait; you
can’t rig your tackle as you like; you
can’t invite a friend out fishing unless you
take him to the cop-shop and license him
first. Penalties are a fine and confisca-
tion of tackle, and, to cap it all, the price
of the licence is to be doubled. Mur-
murings from downtrodden worm-
drowners promise resistance on a scale
similar to the Miner’s Right dust-up, the
biggest all-in blue in Vic. history.
* * * *
“Motuku”: That birds have a sense of
fun is supported by the behavior of our
troupe of 10 yearling magpies recently
evicted by their parents. What else could
have impelled them to remove every
scrap of coconut-fibre from my neighbor’s
hanging fern-baskets and scatter it all
over his newly-mown lawn, where they
rolled and tumbled over one another in
mock fights for possession of odd bits and
pieces? Other comic stunts: hanging
upside-down from the tip of a banksia-
twig or pandanus-leaf, beating time with
a free foot to their carolling; playing
tug-o’-war around the lawn with twigs,
pandanus-leaves or bits of string; drag-
“My dear fellow, when you speak like that about my violin—smile!"
ging one another round by tail or wing-
tip ; teasing a currawong by thrusting
a piece of red paper at him and pulling
it away when he made a peck at it;
hanging from clothesline or climbing-
bean support, swinging and singing;
putting on an excellent imitation of an
American football-game, the ball being
a cardboard cup. We’ll miss these mis-
chievous clowns, especially as this year’s
magpie-crop has been almost a complete
failure. So far, I have seen only two
babies to replace the 10 forcibly ejected.
“It's all right—he cant climb."
“Ardoyne”: Davy Crockett was a
marvel, all right: I come across him
depicted looping a noose around the foot
, of a bully twice his own weight and
hauling him skyhigh, the rope having
been slung over a convenient beam. Even
with a pulley to reduce friction, an
ordinary fellow couldn’t raise a man of
equal weight off the ground.
* * * *
“Four Threes”: A short, sharp rap with
a hammer is sometimes needed to per-
suade a 'steam-loco.’s donkey-pump to
keep on the job, and that was why old
Crusty was on the side-footplate. He
eyed the donkey and raised the waddy,
but before he brought it down the donkey
started working furiously. He had hardly
got back to the cabin when the thing
stopped again. Meantime, in the cab,
Bricky turned the donkey stop-valve off
and on. After, the fourth trip up and
down the footplate, Crusty pondered for
a minute: “We’re gonna have trouble
with the air-brake,” he told Bricky.
From then on ,he had Bricky swinging
the hand-brake at every down-grade.
“Can’t go too fast with a crook pump,”
Crusty commented, and waited till the
train slowed to a crawl before boring
the engine on the banks, where Bricky
then had head down and tail up fighting
a losing battle against the steam-gauge.
At the terminal Bricky staggered into
the pub, “Y* can’t win with the old
——! ” he told the barman. A few doors
down Crusty was telling the mob: “That
mate o’ mine won’t wake up I got thirty
years on him.” He gazed at the big
frothy pot and reflected, “A man learns
a bit in them thirty years.”
* * * *.
“H.C.8.”: Hen budgerigars are
absolutely merciless when fighting; an
acquaintance found one of his with her
top beak bitten completely off, leaving
the tongue visible. He refused to kill
her, claiming that if a bird is suffering
any pain it mopes, and this one was
comparatively lively. The afflicted
bird’s apparent inability to pick up seed
proved no handicap two cocks,
obviously rivals, took-over feeding her,
indulging in a little sly kissing during
the process. Neither cock shows the
least interest in the other hens of the
aviary, despite the fact that budgerigars
are notoriously lax in the matter of
morals. The bird’s owner contends that
the missing beak, being more-or-less the
same as a fingernail or horse’s hoof,
will grow again. He could be right—l
knew a pony that grew another hoof
after one had been torn off in an accident
—but I hae me doots.
* * * *
“Mulloway”: Instead of a shell, the
luth, or leather-backed turtle, has a seven-
ridged leathery skin on its back, and is
so unlike other turtles or tortoises that
it is seldom recognised, even by pro-
fessional fishermen. Its name is a variant
of lute, the musical instrument the god
Mercury was supposed to have fashioned
from the carapace of one. Testudo
(Lat.) and chelys (Gk.) both mean
either “tortoise” or “lute.” “Turtle” is
a comparatively modern English word,
supposed to have been coined, like
“crayfish” from “ecrevisse,” by English
sailors, modifying either the French
tortue or the Spanish tortoga.
* * * *
“Rexine”: Thought I had found a new
kind of spider. It was dark-grey, about
an inch-and-a-half across, with body
and legs covered with wartlike lumps.
Wondering, I gave the excrescences an
exploratory poke with the end of a grass-
straw. Immediately all the “warts” ran
off and hid beneath leaves. Mother
Spider ran a few inches, then stopped,
and gradually her family returned and
resumed their pick-a-back journey.
* * * *
WHAT’S become of all the crescentic
brass-plates bestowed on aboriginal
chiefs in the early days by “Big Guv-
ment” as emblems of office?
Hung round the neck, they certainly
gave the wearer distinction, though I
don’t think the Torres Strait islander,
with his polished pearl-shell breast-
ornament of similar design, felt very
envious of the brasswear.
Looking up some old historical notes,
I came across the investiture by Governor
Lachlan Macquarie of two native guides
who had accompanied Charles Throsby
on his expedition by way of the Cow-
pastures and Blue Mountains to Bathurst.
In a general-order Macquarie praised
the services of the two men, Cookoogong
and Dual, as “very meritorious,” and said
that much of the success of the undertak-
ing was to be ascribed to them. He
ordered remuneration in clothes and bed-
ding; appointed Cookoogong chief of
the Burrah-Burrah tribe to which he
belonged, and conferred on him the
unusual Badge of Distinction. Dual re-
ceived the Badge of Merit.
Macquarie seems to have initiated the
presenting of the brass “gorget” (as it
was called), with name of recipient in-
scribed. He decorated a number of
chiefs with it.
In 1816 Mrs. Macquarie, while visit-
ing the native farm at George’s Head,
made a native named Boongary chief;
this is said to have been the same man
known as Bungaree, who was drawn
from life in 1831 and on stone in 1834
by Charles Robins. The quarter-moos
breastplate figures in the sketch.
C. CORAL.
THEY CAME TO THE SHANTY
Just under the shade of the forest fringe
Where the scrub and the bracken grow
And the timbered slopes of the range look down
On the plain spread out below
The broken bottles lie strewn amongst
The ferns and the rotting wood
In memory still of the men who came
Where an old bush shanty stood.
They were outcasts all and far away
From their native heath and hill;
Some were sent out here for their country’s
good,
Some came of their own free-will,
And mystery-men they always were —
Each went on his way alone.
They answered to names that were dubbed on
them X
And had no use for their own.
They cared not for fortune cruel or kind
And never looked far ahead,
They were homeless here and they willed it so
And belonged to a day that is dead:
With a well-worn swag and a blackened can
And thoughts that were known to none
They tramped in search of a short-time job
On a farm or a station-run.
With a pound or two at the harvest earned
When there was a crop to reap
Or the scanty pay the squatter gave
For washing his scabby sheep,
Along the tracks from the range and plain
To the shanty they drifted in,
And d ran k their fill of the fiery rum
And the square-faced bottles of gin.
And drunk and happy they hung about
Till the last of their pay was spent,
Then with empty pockets and aching head
From the shanty-door they went:
A day and a night to sleep it off
By the butt of a shady tree,
Then shoulder the swag and tramp away
To toil for another spree.
Through their hard, rough lives they tramped
and toiled
With their drinking-bouts between,
But they drank their own and they robbed
no one
Whatever their crimes had been.
If they wasted the strength that once they had
And the gain was nothing at all,
In the country’s dawn they played a part
Though it was ever so small.
They drifted away on the last long tramp
And when the shanty had gone
The tracks that led to the forest fringe
Died out as the years went on.
But the broken bottles still lie amongst
The ferns and the rotting wood
And bring to mind the men who came
Where an old bush shanty stood.
VICTORIA.
JOHN G. GILBY.


'T'ONY, Italian fisherman, had brought
with him, when he came to renew
his annual fishing-licence, about a dozen
relations and friends, all newly-arrived
and needing the same seal of official
approval. After guiding them all through
the mysteries of form-filling Tony
delivered himself of his own private
bleat: “Me, I beena in thees contree
twenty year. My Engaleesh she is nota
so good, but everone, she understan’
what I say. But theesa lot, they no
speaka da,, word of da Eengaleesh. Yet
for alia that, they are the New Aus-
tralian ; me, I am stilla da bloody
Dayg!”—“Jumbo.”
* * * *
“Doynest”: The Victorian Lands
Department has brought 60,000 moth-
eggs from Italy, and they are now
hatching-out. They are the tiny Cinna-
bar variety, and in two years’ time the
department hopes to have several million
moths to liberate in Gippsland and other
parts of the State which are now infested
with ragwort, said to be the moth’s
favorite food. The trouble with some
imported guest-exterminators is that
when they’ve cleaned-up the pest they’ve
been brought out for they often turn to
something valuable as a change of diet
and themselves become pests.
/
• * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The Queensland “hawk”
I mentioned, and whose species “Bass”
(B. 18/1/’56) questioned, doesn’t hover
or dive, so apparently is not a falcon.
An inlander mostly, so the osprey’s out.
Too small for an eagle ; too big for a
sparrow-hawk. Plumage is dark-brown,
legs and talons short and strong. It
swoops on prey, will take an odd chicken,
and gathers in large numbers to carrion-
feast. Early morning sees them flapping
along at low altitude; later they’ll be
wheeling and gliding sky-high, almost
out of sight. A lumbering flyer, with
medium wing-span and forked tail, it’s
not bold, fast or handsome. It
could be a buzzard, goshawk, farrier or
kite; because of its forked tail and glid-
ing motion of flight in the upper air-
currents, in which it has no superior,
my vote goes to the last-mentioned.
* * * *
“Mackville”: My mate threw up his
•410 shotgun and snapped a shot at a
rabbit. The shot didn’t “crack” the way
a well-loaded shell does, but, the range
being long for the small-calibred weapon,
it didn’t occur to me to look further for
the explanation of Bunny’s escape from
a fellow who doesn’t miss often. The
next shot was well within range, an easy
one, and again Long-ears kept going.
That shot hadn’t sounded right, either,
though the report had been more like
a. muffled “boom” than a “phut.” The
reason became startlingly apparent the
moment the gun was lowered: at a
point about Bin. from the breech on the
right barrel a bulge as thick as a fore-
finger and almost as long protruded. A
gunsmith explained: The first shot had
been a dud which left an obstruction in
the barrel. When the next shot was
fired a quantity of compressed-air and
the charge had to get out somehow —in
a hurry. The barrel had offered less
resistance than the plug, and it had
“stretched” at that_jspot, which was for-
tunate ; if it had “blown” there could
have been serious casualties. I accepted
his explanation ; a man who was able to
restore that barrel to its original state
should know what he’s talking about.
* * * *
“Jas”: Those hardy and heroic
characters the rock-fishermen have an
avian exemplar in the reef-heron. On
green and slippery rocks, usually further
out than other waders venture, this slaty-
grey bird—looking gnomelike as he
crouches low amidst the splash of spray
—stabs swiftly right and left with long,
rapierlike bill. His urgency is the greater
because his favorite hunting-grounds are
those rocks last revealed and first sub-
merged by tidal ebb and flow. When
the tide is full the reef-heron—a soli-
tary bird save when breeding—sits, a
dark and melancholy figure, on a rock
by the water’s edge. Our northern
coastline harbors a white reef-heron, a
bird that draws no matrimonial color-
line where the dark-plumaged southern
species is concerned.
Sydney May: Touching on a “Service
Page” answer to the inquiry “Who was
‘the man from Ironbark’?” In writing
my book The Story of Waltzing Matilda
I tried every source I could to discover
the origin of each of Paterson’s bush
ballads. Paterson stated definitely that
he did not have any individual in his
mind as he wrote. Nowhere did I hear
or find any reference to the account of
the “man from Ironbark” given in The
Bulletin. It may be true, but the post-
master (1945) at Narrabri was
assertive that Paterson was in
that area about that time, and
that the Ironbark referred to
was a now-vanished settlement:
in 1893 a mail change (the
second) on the Cobb and Co.
mail-route Narrabri-to-Moree
took place there. This may be
wrong, but, as far as there is
any fact in any of Paterson’s
stories, it’s an explanation which
rings quite true to me. How-
ever, all is just conjecture.
“Maitri”: When I tried to remove
from the Venetian-blind what I thought
was a stick it became a mass of waving
legs—the biggest stick-insect I’ve seen.
Ran the rule over it: Min. from the
ends of its long, curly eyelashes to the
tip of its improbable tail. It’s been about
the pjace for a week now and seems quite
at home. All our droppers-in agree
they’ve never come across such a
whopper. The encyclo. gives it soipe
impressive name, though to me it looks
like a member of the praying-mantis
family gone wrong. Whatever it is, it’s
as clever as a politician in passing itself
off as something it isn’t.
* * *
“Quo Vadis”: The six young louts
had had a smell of the cork and, seated
on a form against the inner wall of the
bush dance-hall, were indulging in
offensive remarks at the dancers’ ex-
pense. After the oldish ex-pug had
seated his partner, he walked up to them,
and spoke no word, but swept his open
right hand hard along the smooth cheeks
—six rapid whacks like a kid’s toy
machine-gun in action. But worse still!
As the gallants bent before the storm,
back came the left calloused palm, the
treatment in reverse. Still saying no
word, he departed. Six red-faced young
“He looks much more cheerful today, don't you think?”
clowns were noticed stealthily dis-
appearing.
* * * *
“Cowvard Kate” • Horses sometimes
devel f for ' a par tj C ular color in
0 p • y *
a “ m P amo ? 1 ba >* * ock y bas i a
mar na for white. He 11 hang ar
t ” e § atewa Y f° r hours waiting for some-
one to P ass through, and despite attempts
to drive him awa Y he ’ n spear through the
gate before you can get the car or truck
through and will race madly down to the
tiny township to where an old chap
breeds white goats, with which Rocky
“Nothing to it, Annie.”
will feed all day and then settle down
with them for the night. I thought the
goats themselves may have been the attrac-
tion, but one day he met/a white cow on
his way and didn’t bother going any
further. Another day a drover went by
driving a white horse in his van, and
Rocky followed as far as the fence would
allow, then spent the remainder of the
day gazing longingly in the direction the
drover had taken. After shearing, Rocky
follows the newly-shorn sheep around the
paddocks, but gives-up as soon as the new
wool displaces the snowy whiteness of
their skins.
THE HERDS
The mountains breathe of lupin blue,
the foothills run with liquid gold,
the paddocks, each a different hue,
are patchwork rich and bold.
A paperbark is full in bloom
beside the creek and honey-sweet.
Like soft chords in another room,
the herds make all complete:
the Friesians in their jetty black
with melting snowfalls on each back
to match the peewee and magpie
that wing so gladly through the sky;
the Jerseys, pansy-faced and light
with hooves and muzzles ringed with white;
and newcome, trotting head to head,
small calves the color of gingerbread;
and freckled, smoky, tan or pied —
all dotted over the countryside.
0 Peace, when you have lost your way
through all the jostling haunts of men,
the track lies here, and here today
you have come home again.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.
RIVET-BOYS
A MONG the occupations fading-out
with advanced engineering tech-
niques is that of the rivet-boy. Arc-
welding is fast displacing the rivet-gun
in steel-construction, and many a rivet-
fire will never be re-lit.
Before I went on the footplate my
apprenticeship started in the railway-
workshops heating rivets “nice and white ;
like a marshmallow.” That was 17 years
ago.
But the title of rivet-boy didn’t come
straight-away. First you had to “run the
rabbit”; pulling a hand-cart loaded with
rivets and coke to the lines of butty gangs,
and returning with clinker and scrap as
back-loading. This also included duty
as billy-boy, and no easy task at that, for
d needed a steady hand to carry up to
, 16 M > iea distributed on two poles, one
m eac h fist — as well as remembering the
strength o£ brew required in each bmy .
You k ep t your eyes open, and during
a the leading-hand boilermaker
W ould demonstrate the art of rivet-heating
on a spa re fire. Then one day the l.h.b.
called you over,
“I got a fire for you.”
All you wanted now was someone to
ask “Where are y’ toilin’?” “I’m in
Riley’s gang,” you answered casually,
failing to hide your enthusiasm.
Having you own fire was a big thing ;
it meant you operated part of the work-
shop, but, much more, it meant you were
in a gang.
The pride of working in a gang had its
responsibilities, though, for when Riley
wanted rivets “nice and white; like a
marshmallow” he stood for nothing else.
Rivets, t sparkling white or gleaming
yellow were thrown back at your feet:
the former showed burnt metal; the
others, if driven, cooled too quickly,
causing crystallisation.
When Riley worked on a straight-going
he took some keeping up to.
The art here was to have six rivets in the
fire at various depths ; each rivet thus
had a different temperature, the bottom
one being the hottest and the one to come
out at Riley’s call. As you could not see
the bottom rivet, only practice and judg-
ment made it possible to draw it out at
the right heat. A few minutes overheat
often melted it away into a lump of slag.
To say Riley called for his rivets is
not quite right, for the dominant feature
of a boiler-shop is the incessant noise.
A newchum found this a frightening ex-
perience ; especially when things went
wrong. To have rivets burning, eyes half-
blinded with the glare of the fire, know
Riley impatiently waited for rivets, and
at the same time be subjected to the
deafening noise of a dozen rivet-guns
reverberating in hollow steel shells, could
bring tears to a young boy’s eyes.
It was always Riley who calmed down
first and set things right: “Go for a
walk, son. I’ll do some marking-out for
ten-minutes.”
The apex of a rivet-boy’s job was to
get the knack of throwing hot rivets.
Quite often Riley worked some 20ft.
away from your fire. You could run and
hand the rivet to the dollyman, of course,
but this could also mean burnt rivets in
the fire when you got back. Thus you
entered the rivet-throwing competitions
at lunch-break. An experienced boy
would land a rivet in a billycan, sus-
pended 20ft. up, with an almost vertical
throw. But rivet-throwing had its
dangers, too, for many a dollyman has
risen with a curse as a misthrown hot
rivet landed where he was sitting.
Riley was one of the old school who
trained before the advent of rivet-guns.
He arid another old tradesman often
teamed-up with hand-hammers. They
would both swing at the same rivet with
machine-gun rapidity that called for per-
fect timing, and drive it home before it
dulled to a yellow glow. Both of them
refused to take on arc-welding and stuck
to their hammers till retirement.
I don’t regret the experience, but re-
gard the superseding of the occupation as
one of the advantages of the machine-age.
The environment of the old boiler-shop
was not one for a boy; its end brings,
probably, a close to a long line of
Dickensian juvenile exploitations.
FOUR THRESS.


NEWCASTLE-
Australia’s Industrial Hub —
offers £4'17'6% for 5 years
to all investors in
THE NEWCASTLE
WATER BOARD LOAN
For the first time in six years, you will have the opportunity to
invest in the essential undertaking supplying many of Australia’s
greatest industrial enterprises—including 8.H.P., Courtaulds,
Lysaghts, Rylands, The Sulphide Corporation, Commonwealth
Steel, Burlington Mills, Stewarts and Lloyds, and Masonite—
with their most vital requirement: water.
The Loan is the first in this State to offer you the new, high rate
of £4/17/6 per cent for either 5 or 10 years. Make certain
that your savings are invested more profitably in this Authorised
Trustee Investment, guaranteed by the New South Wales
Government.
INVEST AT £4/17/6 p.c. TODAY!
Apply to your nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, through
a Stockbroker, or to The Hunter District Water Board, Hunter
Street, Newcastle.
Loan underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
NWL2-56
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(. Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Business, Rollerry, Etc.
£430 Million to Pay!
A N interesting investment
factor is to be discerned in
the “Treasury Information Bul-
letin” lately issued.
Transactions in the Common-
wealth Consolidated Revenue
Fund for the first six months of
1955-56 resulted in a deficit of
£78.2 million, and there was
another \deficit of £27.4
million in the Loan Fund.
To meet these deficits £10.6
million was drawn from the
Commonwealth Government’s
bank-balances, and £95 million
was financed by discounting
Treasury-bills with the Common-
wealth Bank.
Now, as the Budget Estimates
provided for a surplus of £48.5
million for 1955-56, and there is
no reason to doubt that revenue
figures will be realised over the
full year, it is clear that the
Treasury-bill finance used to
bridge the shortage of revenue at
the half-yearly mark will be
more than covered by revenue
received by the year’s end.
This is made obvious by a
breakdown of revenue figures
to December 31. By then only
£l4B million of income-tax had
been collected out of £577
million Budgeted for.
In other words nearly £430
million has to be found by
investors, wage-earners, ’ com-
panies and others during the
period January-June in order to
meet tax-commitments, whereas
the amount during the past six
months was only £l4B million.
Presumably Treasury-bills out-
standing on revenue account will
be retired. And taxpayers will
be forking-out rather than in-
vesting or spending. The blow
will be heaviest on the higher
incomes not in the wages-tax
category. Wages-tax is being
collected every week.
The Treasury’s comment is as
follows: “Total revenue for the
six months represented only
38 p.c. of the Budget estimate
for the full year. This result,
however, is due to the normal lag
in income-tax receipts in the
first part of the financial year.
As income-tax assessments of
business and professional in-
comes of the previous financial
year are not due for payment
before March 31 in the current''
financial year, income - tax
receipts during the first six
months are derived mainly from
“pay-as-you-earn” collections,
assessments of earlier years and
arrears of tax. Receipts from
these sources during the first six
months of 1955-56 have come up
up to expectations.”
During the first half of 1955-56
new money was pumped into the
financial system through the issue
of Treasury-bills. During this
(second) half it will be pumped
out.
Investors may study this fact
to their advantage.
Production and Costs
/COMMENTING on recent
slackening in output in some
industries, the National Bank of
Australasia says that, measured
in terms of sheer size, Australian
productive power is at a record,
but this should not be permitted
to induce comp lace n c y.
“Obviously with this growth
must go on an increasing efficient
use of it, meaning, in plain terms,
more output at lower cost. For
this is the acid-test of any pro-
ductive system and of true
progress.”
i More output at lower costs is
certainly the remedy for Aus-
tralia’s fundamental economic
illness of the present time. It
appears that the eight professors
of political economy who flew
a kite a couple of weeks ago,
recommending higher taxation
and higher interest-rates in order
to ward-off an acute economic
crisis, at the same time avoiding
the words “production” or “pro-
ductivity” in the whole of their
manifesto, regarded their recom-
mendations as a short-term
medicine only, taking the view
that it would require more than
a year to increase production
appreciably, whereas their idea
was to get some results this
year.
Short-term or long-term,
their recommendations, in The
Bulletin’s opinion, are subject
to the comments in last week’s
issue.
New Local-government Rate
/"VFFERS of debentures carry-
ing £4 17s. 6d. per cent., with
terms as short as five years in
some cases, were made by local-
government bodies in four States
last week. Since November,
1952, the rate has been £4 15s.
per cent. At the old rate the
Sydney Water Board had success
with a five-year loan a week or
two ago.
Malaya and Sterling
WHEN Malaya in August,
* ™ 1957, becomes an indepen-
dent State within the British
Commonwealth, it will still
remain inside the sterling area.
.Because of its exports of tin and
rubber, Malaya is the biggest net
dollar-eamer in the Common-
wealth. The Malayan Constitu-
tional Conference in London
decided that it will be necessary
for Malaya still to exercise
restraint in dollar expenditure,
in conformity with the policy
followed generally by the sterling
area. It was also decided that
Malaya will send a delegate to
all future meetings of Common-
wealth Finance Ministers.
Refrigerator Slump
r T'HE slump in sales of
refrigerators is having its
effects among varied types of dis-
tributors. W. H. Paling and Co.,
Ltd., of Sydney, famous for
its musical instruments, in the
term to October 31 lost about
£30,000 on sales of refrigerators,
" I do think you might stretch a point for your poor
old mother."
and stocks had to be written-
down heavily in addition. Pro-
fits from the other departments
increased, but overall profit fell
by £16,177, to £38,170. The
dividend was reduced from 7 p.c.
to 5 p.c., and called for £36,338.
Kurt] Gas^
TJROM L. Owen: While the
-*- striking of a large flow of
gas under high pressure in the
Kura well in Western Papua
may not, at the present juncture,
possess any great commercial
significance, the fact that such a
flow has been encountered is of
enormous geological import.
It matters little that the first
attempts to control the flow,
extending over a month under
exceptionally capable and experi-
enced technical guidance, should
have failed. The important point
is that the gas is there and that
it is derived from what is
obviously a sizeable reservoir
very different from those which
have produced, in the past, the
sporadic and transient “poops”
which occurred in the Vailala
so-called oilfield and to the east
of it.
Geologically, the fact that this
strong flow of gas at Kura was
reached at a relatively shallow
depth—short of 1000 ft. —also
has little significance.
Commercially, however, it
leads to the expectation of
striking petroleum at depths
which will allow of profitable
exploitation.
What is really important is
that a well located on a western
extension of the Kariava struc-
ture —on which the dry Kariava
well was abandoned at a depth
of nearly 13,000 ft. without pro-
ducing tangible result should
confirm the conclusions, reached
at Wana and strengthened at
Omati, that the best prospects
of commercial oil in Papua lay
west of Long. 145°E.
For this reason, and thanks to
the systematic and thorough
manner in which the exploration
for oil has been carried out by
Australasian Petroleum and its
partners, future operations at
Kuru, Barikewa and at points
further west will be followed
with very great interest by all
interested in the advancement
of Australia and its Territories.
As far as the oil game allows,
the outlook inspires confidence.
Sydney Cotton Mills
nrHE offer by Minster, Ltd., foi
the shares in Sydney Cotton
Mills, Ltd., expired on February
14. The consent of 90 p.c. of
Sydney Cotton shareholders was
asked for. It was an interesting
proposition.
Minster offered one 10s.
Minster for every fully-paid £1
S.C. share, and holders of the
55.-paid S.C. contribs. had the
right of paying their calls and
coming in on the same basis, or
of accepting one Minster share
for every four 55.-paids.
Minster controls Westminster
Carpets, of Dandenong (Vic.),
Whitehead Chemical Co. (maker
of aqueous reclaimed-rubber
dispersions, sold principally to
Westminster in the manufacture
of its rubber-based carpet), and
Rayon (A/sia) Processing Co.
Pty., Ltd. (maker of flock-coated
materials). All these subsidiaries
tie-in with the motor-trade in
some way, as well as supplying
the domestic-carpet market, and
presumably the directors see a
prospect of tying-in Sydney
Cotton as well.
Sydney Cotton has been pay-
ing a regular 10 p.c., Minster,
Ltd., 15 p.c,
Westminster Carpets Pty., the
backbone of the show, has been
earning enough for Minster, Ltd.,
to pay 15 p.c. divs., and to dupli-
cate the plant out of retained
profits at the same time. It has
wide prospects, and is situated
in the heart of the new Victorian
industrial centre at Dandenong.
If the 130,000 Sydney Cotton
shares are taken over on a fully-
paid basis, Minster’s capital will
rise to about £600,000, after
which the old Sydney Cotton
shareholders will participate in
any benefits that may be forth-
coming from the Minster group.
Exports
Australian exports in the
last half of 1955 were £2l
million greater than in the last
half of 1954.
Despite the lower prices that
have ruled since the wool sales
(Continued on next page )


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANT LIMITED
•*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
iw-
Your son’s future
may depend largely
on his ability
to manage his
money efficiently.
Start him on the
right road early
in life by giving
him an A.N.Z.
Cheque Account
now. Allow him
to see for himself
the cumulative
effect of small
transactions,
and encourage him
to make a confidant
of his A.N.Z.
Bank Manager.
A-N-Z
w
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies, throughout Australia and
New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Research in Industry
No. 22 in a Series
“ENDEAVOUR”
Just as Cook and Colum-
bus sailed into uncharted
waters in their quest for
new worlds to conquer, so
does the scientist of today
set out to explore the
unknown in the realms of
chemistry and physics in
his search for new sub-
stances which can be applied to the betterment of mankind.
Scientific research in 1.C.1. laboratories throughout the world
costs millions of pounds every year, but it produces new
discoveries and inventions which will prove of value to
industry, to the farmer, in fact, to every member of our
community.
In Australia, ICIANZ Ltd. has recently opened the new
Merrindale Agriculture Research Station at Croydon in
Victoria, where trained technical men will work on problems
relating to the use of chemicals in the primary industries
in this country.
The Research Station is the first of a number of such estab-
lishments which will be set up by ICIANZ for the full develop-
ment of chemicals in primary and secondary industries and
the future prosperity of Australia.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
32C.29J
opened this season, the value of
wool exports in the six months
July-December, 1955, was £3
million greater than in the cor-
responding period of 1954.
There was a large carry-over
from the 1954-55 season, and
this was mostly shipped during
July and August last. In addi-
tion, the wool clip this year is
now estimated to be 1,414
million pounds, compared with
1,288 million pounds in 1954-55.
Exports of butter also contri-
buted to the higher level of
export earnings in the last half
of 1955. In the six months
July-December, 1955, butter
exports amounted to about £l5
million, compared with £lO
million in the corresponding
months of 1954.
Wheat and flour exports in
the second half of 1955 were
maintained at about the same
level as in the second half of
1954. Prices tended to fall, but
slightly larger quantities were
sold abroad.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
'T'HE next few months will be
-*■ a testing time for the Maori-
land economy.
The big question, of course, is
whether the cumulative effect of
the current credit-squeeze will
be great enough to restore
dangerously depleted overseas
reserves to a safe level.
In the calendar-year 1955
overseas exchange deficit was
£26.5 million, compared with a
deficit of £16.6 million in 1954
and a surplus of £26.2 million in
1953. Net overseas assets
slumped by just on £24 million
to £62.6 million.
As Government spokesmen
point out, the economy is funda-
mentally sound. Butter, cheese,
meat and wool last year all
produced substantially more
income than in 1954, and total
receipts from overseas rose by
£22.8 million to a record of
£294'million. The rise, however,
was overwhelmed by a huge
increase in imports, which sent
total payments overseas up by
£32.7 million to £320.6 million.
When, at the beginning of
1955, the Government abolished
the exchange-allocation system
for imports it warned importers
of the need for discretion. It
took into consideration the fact
that they had already had their
fingers burnt in 1952, when the
big buying-spree which followed
relaxation of direct import-
controls glutted the markets.
Nevertheless, month by month
during almost the whole of last
year imports showed big in-
creases over those of the previous
year. Conscious of an eager
buying public with assured jobs
and plenty of money to spend,
importers could hardly be
blamed for setting out to make
hay. To do so they naturally
called on the banks for help.
Heavy further calls came from
the meat industry to finance the
re-establishment of free market-
ing. In spite of a gradual
tightening-up of limits, over-
drafts, which stood at £149.5
million in March, 1954, soared
to £189.3 million in Mar., ’55.
Brakes Applied
The Government has applied
the brakes with growing force
through the reserve-ratio system
and the discount-rate. After a
series of increases the trading-
banks are now required to main-
tain statutory minimum bal-
ances at the Reserve Bank
equal to 26 per cent, of their
demand-liabilities and per
cent, of their time-liabilities —
and to pay 7 per cent, to the
Reserve Bank for any money
they need to borrow from it in
order to do so. At present the
Reserve Bank holds £58.4 mil-
lion of the trading-banks’ cash
free of interest, plus another
£8.7 million which they have
had to borrow from it to bring
their balances up to the
minimum of £66.5 million.
The banks are understand-
ably doing their utmost to
restrain borrowers. Overdrafts
are now down to £177.4 million.
This is £4.4 million higher than
at the same time last year, but
it is certain that, without the
credit-squeeze, the rise would
have been disastrously higher.
In the'last month or so there
have been other signs that the
squeeze is beginning to take
hold. The exchange deficit for
December was £2.2 million,
against £7.2 million for Novem-
ber and £3 million for Decem-
ber, 1954. Net overseas assets
have begun to rise from the low
point of £62.6 million. At mid-
January they had recovered to
£65.9 million. A steady im-
provement can be expected from
now till June as the export
season moves to its peak and
the effects of the credit-screw
become increasingly felt.
Import-control
There is, however, a fairly
large body of opinion which
holds that a return to some
direct form of selective import-
control is desirable and will,
ultimately, prove necessary. It
is perhaps hardly surprising that
this view is held by the Manu-
facturers’ Federation, while its
direct opposite is held by the
U.K. Manufacturers’ and N.Z.
Representatives’ Association
though both base their opinions
on the same set of facts!
Direct control is, of course,
anathema to the present Ad-
ministration, which came into
office pledged to restore free-
dom. It is, nevertheless, an
awkward fact for the Govern-
ment that many businessmen
among its supporters found that
they got along very comfortably
under direct control, and some
of them have been hard-hit by
the squeeze.
Leaving aside motives of self-
interest, advocates of direct
control point out that the credit-
squeeze does not prevent the
importation of expensive
luxuries, which the individual
may be able to pay for but which
the nation as a whole cannot
afford. The president of a
farmers’ organisation summed it
up when he said that the
squeeze, which had the effect of
reducing the amount of ferti-
liser which some farmers could
buy to increase production, was
not the way to stop the impor-
tation of non-essentials.
The Reserve Bank, on the
other hand, believes that, given
a chance, the squeeze will be
sufficient to turn the tide and
restore overseas reserves to a
satisfactory level, at the same
time preserving maximum free-
dom. Its supporters point out
that direct control inevitably
introduces distortions into the
economy; it encourages uneco-
nomic manufacturing enter-
prises and mops up labor,
already in short-supply, which
would be better engaged in
essential productive work.
Wherever the truth may lie,
the fact is that Maoriland can’t
afford to take risks in view of
the low level of its overseas
funds and some uncertainty
about its export income. Though
production is high and rising,
overseas prices for primary
produce appear to have passed
their peak. There seems no
good reason to fear any serious
decline, but the wide price-
fluctuations inherent in free-
market trading must be faced
now that bulk sales of meat and
dairy-produce have ended.
Meantime, while Cabinet is
holding informal meetings to
discuss economic and financial
policy, Finance Minister Watts
has announced that the squeeze
will continue and that stronger
emphasis will be placed on parts
of it.
Cheap-money Policy
The Government so far has,
like its Labor predecessor, clung
tightly to a cheap-money policy,
permitting only small, grudging,
piecemeal increases in interest-
rates, but it seems certain that
a more substantial rise will
emerge from its present delibera-
tions.
A first move in that direction
came last week when the Gov-
ernment announced the removal
of the 5 per cent, ceiling on
bank-overdraft rates and the
lifting of the maximum aver-
age overdraft rate from 4f to 5
per cent. The banks welcome
the lifting from them of some
part of the penalty for excessive
overdraft totals, which they have
hitherto been paying through
the discount rate, and the trans-
ference of it to their borrowers.
The Government’s modest
£lO-million national - develop-
ment loan last year was under-
subscribed —not by much, but
by enough to show that appeals
to patriotism could no longer
induce the investing public to
accept a return of £4 2s. 4d. per
cent, on an 11-year loan when
it could get £4 7s. 6d. per cent,
on similar stock bought in the
open market. The short-term
section of the loan, which was
issued to give an effective yield
of £3 18s. lOd. per cent., has
since been sold at a price show-
ing the buyer a return of more
than £4 7s. per cent. The plain
fact is that investors who
bought into recent loans at the
time of issue have, if they wish
to sell, lost part of their capital. *
This is no longer good enough.
Apart from any money re-
quired for national development
this year, the Government has
loans amounting to £49.8 million
due for redemption in the 12
months beginning on April 1
next. Its prospect of getting the
money it needs without offering
substantially greater induce-
ment than has been forthcoming
for many years past seems poor
indeed. Market yields on Gov-
ernment stock at the moment
range from about £4 Bs. per cent,
to £4 10s. per cent.
Any rise in the Government-
loan rate will, of course, necessi-
tate readjustment of the local-
body borrowing rate. Local
bodies were permitted a rise of
one-quarter per cent, to 4£ per
cent, last year, but, with
current debentures selling in the
market to show a return of 41
per cent., they are finding it hard
going to raise money,
many districts works regarded
as essential are held up for lack
of finance.
The investment market’s
anticipations about the future of
interest-rates are plainly shown
not only in Government-stock
prices but also in recent sales of
preference shares. Most good 5-
per-cent. issues have fallen 2s.
to 35., and are now little, if
anything, above par.


Does your WILL
still express your intentions?
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
in Victoria in 1878
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that yon
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Exe6utors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over 77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges. ;
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman): W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.S., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., O.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.&.
K.8.E., C.M.S., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
/"\VER the last five years this big Vic-
torian brewery organisation, which
enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in its
home State, has spent nearly £3,000,000
on additions to and modernisation of
plant (largely in the bottling section)
and on extending and improving some
of its 120 hotels —a year or so ago two
of them were about to be rebuilt at an
estimated cost of £750,000.
To help meet the expenditure and pro-
vide for initial outlay on a big programme
of further development, £1,500,000 of 5
p.c. debentures (redeemable 1965-68)
were issued in December, 1953, and dur-
ing the second half of last term share-
holders (mainly the five holding cos.
through whom the public is interested
in C.U.8.) took up 1,949,800 new £1
Z shares at par. That lifted issued capital
to £7,799,800 in 300,000 7 p.c. partici-
pating prefs., 2,625,000 ords. and
4,874,800 Z shares —the latter rank
equally with the ords. for divs. but have
no voting power and do not share in
surplus assets.
The co.’s sales of beer have increased by
137 p.c. over the last decade, reaching
59.640.846 gallons last term, when the
improvement was 5,536,148 gallons, or
10.2 p.c. Lately the increase has been
mainly in bottled beer, of which
12.495.846 dozen (up 2,277,808 dozen, or
21.2 p.c.) were sold for the year to June
30, 1955. Helped by periodic small lifts
in selling-prices, the growth in turnover
has offset the narrowing margins per
gallon, due to rising wage-rates and lifts
in prices for barley, sugar, hops, yeast,
bottles and increased transport and other
costs.
The lift in sales, together with the
savings in costs which have followed
installation of new automatic bottling-
and other plant, put a spring of £56,584
in last term’s net earnings:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
( Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9f p.c. 9§ p.c. serves serves.*
& £* £/ £/ £>
1951. . 467,110 28,125 837,500 101,485 6,266,105
Profit sale assets, £3683 .. ..6,269,788
Net tax arrears, £3339 .. ..6,266,449
Add reserve adjustments, £29,345 .. 6,295,794
6J p.c. 6! p.c.
1952.. 450,762 21,000 346,875 82,887 6,378,681
Excess tax provision, £2861 .. .. 6,381,642
Profit sale assets, £3417 .. .. 6,384,959
Add reserve adjustment, £1273 .. 6,386,232
1953.. 609,093 21,000 346,875 141,218 6,527,450
Excess tax provision, £6092 6,533,542
Profit sale assets, £6959 .. ..6,540,501
Add reserve adjustment, £1513 .. 6,642,014
91 p.c. 91 p.c.
1954.. 903,618 24,000 440,000 7 „„ RQ , , R 9
Arrears div. paid, £83,250 ) 352 * 368 6,894,382
Added reserve, £6116 .. ..6,900,497
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1955.. 960,202 27,000 499,500 433,702 7,834,199
•After deducting intangibles, £905,361 at 30/6/’55.
f Excludes outside interests in subsidiaries.
The £960,202 of profit—written after
allowing £553,825 (up £59,487) for
depreciation and unspecified amounts for
taxation and other contingencies—was
16.4 p.c. on average capital (all classes
combined) as against 15.4, 8.7, 7.7 and 8
p.c. back to 1951. In the previous year
paid capital was doubled by the issue of
bonus-scrip in the form of 2,925,000 Z
shares. Last term’s div. was kept at an
all-round 9 p.c.; the extra \ p.c. distri-
buted in 1954 was in respect of arrears, or
deferred payments.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined before deducting
intangibles) the year’s declared profit was
a moderate 6.6 p.c., which suggests that
provision for contingencies not been
skimped. However, until expenditure on
the current programme of development
and improvement is out of the way, it is
doubtful whether any lift in the dividend-
rate need be expected. Meanwhile, there
is a possibility that shareholders might
be asked for more, and that they (the
holding cos.) will in turn offer new shares
to those on their own registers.
Last term the net addition to the book-
value of breweries and hotels was
£472,763 and to plant £529,643:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £5,850,000 £5,850,000 £6,337,450
Reserves* ... 6,527,450 6,894,382 7,334,199
Outside interests 29,394 81,211
Debentures .. 1.417.750 1.499,950
Mortgage .. 166,504 124,353 118,324
Overdraft 1,071 870 U 5,128 1.113,531
Creditors! •• 1.712.782 2,215,063 1,997/753
Si™:.'':: mS'S »«,»oo
£15,549,812 £16,992,387 £18,726,998
Breweries, 9,743,227 9.994,889 10,467,652
Plant .. 2,514,728 3,365,778 3,890,421
Stocks" .. 1,446,540 1,526,245 1,688,987
BoOk debts .. 1,704,620 1,816,569 2,330,436
Cash, etc/ 8 . . 140,697 288.337 343,280
Suspense a/c.. 569 1 '“
£15,549,812 £16,992,387 £18,726,998
•After deducting intangibles, £905,361 at 30/6/’54.
t Includes tax provision. % Includes hotel leaseholds.
Stocks increased by only £162,742, but
book-debts rose by £513,867. They are
encouraging movements. To help meet
the year’s total outlay, £487,450 of fresh
capital was gathered and £1,000,403 was
added to the overdraft, which will be sub-
stantially reduced when the balance of
the capital on the new Z shares comes in.
In order to take up their quotas of
C.U.B.’s last new share-issue, the hold-
ing cos. (whose scrip is listed on ’Change)
asked their own shareholders for more.
Their paid capitals, shareholdings in
C.U.8., and the market price of the scrip
are now:
Shareß
Paid in Market
Capital. C.U.B. Price
Company £ Number. Scrip.
Melb. Co.-op! (10/-) • • 2,419,000 2,632,901 17/-
Carlton (20/-) .. 2,287,578 2,795,021 21/6
Castlemaine (16/-) .. 540,000 469,656 16/3
Poster (20/-) . . • • 299,520 332,194 30/
Shamrock (20/-) •• 367,497 332,194 25/7
Figures in parenthesis are face-value of shares.
Shares held in C.U.B. are all of £1 each, and
include pref., ord. and “Z” scrip.
Market price is for holding co.’s scrip on 9/2/ 56.
In addition to divs. from C.U.B. some of
the cos. gather rents, etc., from properties
and other investments of their own, and
pay different rates of dividend. The
return from a 9 p.c. div. on the respec-
tive holdings of C.U.B. would be equal
to 9.3 p.c. on Melbourne Co-op.’s capital,
11 p.c. Carlton (including its subsidiary,
Victoria Brewery Pty.), 7.8 p.c. Castle-
maine, 9.9 p.c. Foster and 8.1 p.c.
Shamrock.
Australian General Insurance
PREPARED to wait for its benefits, the
market prices the £1 shares paid to
15s. each in this well-established, 42-
year-old Sydney-controlled fire, marine
and accident business at 455. 9d. (475. Id.
a year ago) to return a wink over 4 p.c. on
a 12i p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for no more than 4.9 p.c. on his
money counts on a 15 p.c. distribution,
which was covered by last term’s net
return from investments alone, with £776
to spare. And there is the possibility of
more capital being called up as the busi-
ness continues to grow. Excluding
uncalled capital, net tangible cover is
625. 4d., of which 225. 3d. is represented
by the reserve for unexpired risks.
The board’s policy in respect of divi-
dends is to keep the annual distribution
at or about the level of the net return
from investments, a practice long fol-
lowed by leading British and Australian
offices. It has the advantage of leaving
the underwriting surplus, or most of it,
available to swell reserves, and therefore
investments and returns therefrom.
Finally this results in a high overall net
return on capital, and, at intervals,
increases in the amount distributed as
dividends, as well as other benefits.
Those on the register, who put up an
extra 3 s. a share in 1949, welcomed a
call for a further ss. in March, 1954,
lifting paid capital to £150,000 in 200,000
£1 shares paid to 15s. each. At Decem-
ber 31 last reserves totalled £473,532, of
which £223,000, a bit more than is
usually considered adequate, was ear-
marked for unexpired risks. No bonus-
scrip has been issued to date, nor is there
any suggestion that such a gift is likely
at an early date. The div. was lifted
from 10 p.c. in 1947 to 12 p.c. and then
\2\ p.c. in 1949, and has remained steady
since.
The growth in profit, which averaged
£3909 p.a. for the four years to 1954,
was sluggish last term, when the improve-
ment was only £536, due to a less, favor-
able underwriting experience:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. f Dividend serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
To unexpired risks, £16,000 .. .. 236,777
1950 .. 27,792 121 p.c. = 12,600 15,292 261,069
To unexpired risks, £30,000 .. .. 281,069
1951 .. 28,237 12$ p.c. = 12,500 15,737 296,806
To unexpired risks, £24,000 .. .. 820,806
1952 .. 31,066 12$ p.c. = 12,500 18,566 339,372
To unexpired risks, £ll,OOO .. .. 350,872
1953 .. 36,201 12$ p.c. = 12,500 23,701 874,073
To unexpired risks, £20,000 .. .. 394,078
1954 .. 43,430 12$ p.c. = 17,187 26,246 420,816
To unexpired risks, £28,000 .. .. 448,316
1955 .. 43,966 12$ p.c. =s 18,750 25,216 473,532
Of the £43,966 of profit, which was 29.3
p.c. on capital, £20,690 (down £3510), or
13.8 p.c. on capital, came from under-
writing, and £23,276 (up £4046), or 15.5
p.c. on capital, from investments.
The business continued to expand, as
the growth of £67,812 in net premium
income indicates:
Loss Exes.
Net Pre- Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., miums, Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1951 £349,304 £164,269 £137,823 47.0 39.4
1952.. 409.330 202,394 164,413 49.4 40.1
1953.. 426.400 212,154 181,172 49.7 42.5
1954.. 475.081 236,837 194,044 49.8 40.8
1955. .542,893 287,659 206,644 63.0 38.0
And the bigger business was written at
565. p.c. less cost. But the gain in this
respect was more than offset by an
increase of 645. p.c. in loss-rate, over
which the management has little control.
Hence the shrinkage in tiie net underwrit-
ing surplus. That was after sending
£28,000 (up £8000) to the reserve for
unexpired risks. Motor-vehicle and
workers’-compensation risks are the most
troublesome in the underwriting field,
where fire losses were also heavier last
term.
The protection for both policyholders
and shareholders is in this form:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Reserves .. .. 374,073 420,316 478,532
Liabilities .. .. 193,688 204,696 238,033
Tax reserve .. .. 39,600 49,000 43,600
Final div 6,250 9,375 9,376
£713,611 £833,387 £914,440
Freeholds .. .. 28,379 28,353 28,353
Mortgages .. .. 22,156 21,850 20,100
Debentures* .. .. 28,500 29,250 82,250
Shares other cos. . . 153,735 187,826 222,167
Government securities.. 404,741 507,309 619,497
Book debts .. . . 47,703 35,543 64,670
Cash, etc 28,398 23,256 87,403
£713,611 £833,387 £914,440
* Includes fixed deposits.
The year’s additions of £34,341 to share-
holdings, £12,188 to Government securi-
ties and £3OOO to debentures suggest a
gradual increase in the return from
investments.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch, Ltd.
TN these days of narrowing profit-
margins, one way to offset the effects
upon net earnings is for a co. to increase
its turnover and nurse its markets. To
these ends D., G. and M. made a par
issue of 112,228 new £1 ords., two for
five, in April last, a couple of months
befqre the close of accounts. Paid capi-
tal was thus lifted to £500,000 in 36,400
first 8 p.c., 38,600 second 5 p.c. and
100,000 third 5 p.c. prefs. (the latter are
redeemable in November, 1968) and
325,000 ords. The new capital, however,
had little opportunity to contribute much,
if anything, to the latest profit-figure.
The parent and its four subsidiaries—
Bulk Supplies Pty., D.G.M. Refrigera-
tion, Ltd., Pastoral Accessories Pty., and
Dangar, Gedye and Malloch (Vic.) Pty.
—trade in “everything in machinery for
the man on the land.” Core of the busi-
ness is, and has been for the last 40-odd
years, the engines, shearing-machines,
separators, lighting-plants and other pro-
ducts turned out by R. S. Lister and Co.
(Eng.) and its Australian subsidiary, for
which D., G. and M. are sole distributors
in N. S. Wales, where the Kelvinator
refrigeration agency, etc., is also handled.
Other lines include fodder-conservation
plant, disk-ploughs, rotary-hoes, crawler-
tractors and a wide range of farm and
orchard irrigation-equipment.
For the high level of earnings and divi-
dends of recent years shareholders can
thank a long run of good to fair seasons,
high prices, growth in mechanisation of
farm and other properties as a means of
offsetting production costs, and an enter-
prising management. The ord. div.
climbed from 3 p.c. in 1935 to 8 p.c. for
the three years to 1947, followed by 13,
10}, two lots of 15 p.c., and then 12} p.c.
for the four years to the close of last
accounts. And the 12}- p.c. was sweetened
with £32,250 of bonus-scrip (one-for-
four) in 1951 and a par issue last term.
The board has followed a cautious divi-
dend policy, only 49 p.c. of aggregate
net earnings over the last half-dozen
years being thus distributed.
The Victorian section of the business,
which was handed oyer to a separate sub-
sidiary a year or so ago, traded at a loss
last term, due partly to the expense in-
separable from establishing a new organi-
sation and partly to heavy rains and
floods which, of course, severely affected
sales of irrigation-equipment, etc. Since
somewhat similar conditions were ex-
perienced in parts of N. S. Wales, and
since wool-prices continued to ease and
credit to tighten, the management did
well to show an overall increase of £1136
in net earnings of the group. That was
after allowing an extra £6424 for depre-
ciation (£16,612) and an additional £917
for taxation (£33,380):
D. ( G. & M. and Subsidiaries.
v Dividends To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. f Ord.— serves, serves.
8 & 5 p.c.
& £* £,£>£>
’51..77,046 7,342 15 p.c. = 26,569 43,135 201,671
Unexplained addition, £1195 .. 202,866
’52..72.163 9,078 p.c..= 23,160 39,925 242,791
Unexplained addition, £7411 .. 250,202
’63..60,836 9,842 121 p.c. = 28,160 27,834 278,036
’54..60,379 9,842 121 „ „ 24,633 26,004 804,040
’55..61,515 9,842 121 „ „ 30,017 21,666 325,696
After paying the pref. div., the balance
of the year’s profit was 21.5 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 25.7, 27.5,
34 and 39.3 p.c. back to 1951. The trend
there reflects the narrowing of profit-
margins more than a decline in total
turnover. However, the 12} p.c. div. is
still comfortably covered, and the cur-
rent term’s earnings can be expected to
get some benefit from the new capital.
The £112,228 of fresh share-capital
went mainly into stocks (up £97,087),
plant (up £20,034), and freeholds (up
£10,109):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175.000
Ord 185,281 212,772 325,000
Outside interests .. 6,966 6,779 7,053
Reserves .. .. 278,036 304,040 325,696
Mortgages .. .. 85,000 8 2,000 79,000
Overdraft .. .. 175,199 277,501 278,552
Creditors .. .. 208,551 238,022 239,474
Tax provision .. 72,801 51,780 41,001
Pinal div. .. 25,581 J 19,543 23,528
£1,212,415 £1,367,437 £1,494,304
Freeholds .. 105,598 129,630 139,789
Plant, etc. .. 79,480 94,267 114,301
Stocks .. .. 731,446 746,260 843,347
Debtors .. .. 294,224 389,437 385,081
Cash, etc 1,6 6 7 7,843 10,299
Suspense a/c .. l’ s3 '
£1,212,415 £1,367,437 £1,494,304
Book-debts (dowrf £4356) were slightly
lower. There was little change in the


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
✓
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5g ins. x 3l ins.,
68 x 38 and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
In all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Pty.
Ltd.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 806 QUEER STREET, BRIBBANE
Goldmining—Malaya
Applications are invited by The
Raub Australian Gold Mining Co.
Ltd. for the following positions on
the Company’s mine at Raub,
Pahang, Malaya.
Assistant Mill Superintendent
and Metallurgist
A man with sound training and
experience in gold ore treatment
plant. Company operates a
modern crushing circuit of crush-
ing rolls, jaw-breaker, ball mill,
etc., and a roasting and cyanide
plant for tailings retreatment.
Assist. Engineer (Electrical)
A man is required with sound
training and experience in electrical
engineering, and with some experi-
ence of mechanical engineering.
The Company operates both
Hydro-electric and Diesel generat-
ing plants.
The salary for each position will
be commensurate with the qualifica-
tions and experience of the success-
ful applicant. In' addition to the
salary the Company pays a cost of
living allowance of £340 sterling for
married status and £212 sterling for
single status (per annum). Free
furnished accommodation. Healthy
climate and good amenities. Low
Income Tax. Three years’ agree-
ment with passages paid for man and
wife and six months’ paid leave on
completion.
Apply in writing giving full details
of experience and qualifications and
copies of references to—
THE RAUB AUSTRALIAN
GOLD MINING CO. LTD.,
Box 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt. M
Paiih ifi JP&
pMiurc
\
b
Did you notice that the U.S.A. in 1955 had
the most prosperous year in its history?
The gross national product —the value of all
goods, and services produced—was 387,000 milhon
dollars, equal to £172,600 million Australian. The
official estimate is that 1956 will excel that figure.
As an Australian looking to the Future, I
find it significant that Americans have been able
to build to such productive heights the foundations
of free, private, competitive enterprise.
The principle is well stated in a publication
containing the final declaration of the 42nd
National Foreign Trade Convention which I
attended in New York last November. In part, it
says: —
“Private enterprise, in essence, is the right
of the individual, alone or with others, to engage
in work of his own choosing or to set up in
business —to own, to use, and to risk.
“The reward for success is profit or
achievement in a chosen field; the penalty for
failure is the loss of what has been ventured.
Nothing can surpass this system of rewards and
penalties in providing the incentive upon which
economic progress is built.
“The desire to create something new the
hope of contributing to the betterment of others—
these are incentives for individual conduct which
private enterprise encourages and on which it
depends.
“Just as individual capacities can be developed
by education, so can capital goods be created and
increased by saving, investment, and advancements
in industrial knowledge and techniques.”
I could go on quoting other passages from
this interesting declaration, particularly that which
deals with the role overseas capital has to play in
under-developed countries.
But I believe I have brought out the point,
which is applicable to America, Britain, Australia
or anywhere else, that a nation, granted the
opportunity in resources, will prosper when its
citizens have Faith in themselves.
//
y
outside debt. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£578,709) was £104,015.
The f.-p. £1 ords. at 3 Is. 3d.
return 8 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div.
basis. The 5 p.c. second prefs.
at 17s. 9d. yield 5.6 p.c. The
firsts seldom come on to the
market, and the thirds are not
listed on ’Change. Net tangible
cover is £2O Bs. lid. seconds
and 40s. ords.
Gordon Edgell & Sons v
T>ROSPECTS for shareholders
in this well-established and
expanding vegetable- and fruit-
canning business were strength-
ened last term, when H. J.
Heinz’s Devon cannery—it was
set up at Devonport (Tas.) during
World War II —was bought. This
factory and its seven pea-vining
stations are in the centre of one
of the best pea-growing districts
in Australia. The price paid was
not broadcast, but appears to
have been in the neighborhood
of £370,000, financed as to
£250,000 raised on a 15-year loan
from the A.M.P. (redeemable at
the rate of £12,500 p.a.), and
the balance from the proceeds of
a one-for-three par issue of
159,000 £1 ords. in February,
1955.
Edgell’s products have long
enjoyed a high reputation in both
local and overseas markets. The
two main factories, at Bathurst
and Cowra (N.S.W.), are supplied
from the co.’s own and other
farms on the near-by river-flats
of the Macquarie and Lachlan.
They turn out canned-asparagus,
-peas, -tomatoes, and other
vegetables, and several lines of
tinned-fruit and -soups, as well
as a range of quick-freeze
vegetables marketed on behalf of
Birds Eye Foods (Aust.) Pty.
Last term the asparagus crop
was “highly - successful,” and
several new plantations of the
stuff are now well-established.
But other harvests were mixed,
owing to seasonal conditions.
Though overall production was
greater than the previous year’s,
it was insufficient to meet
demand, which was so strong for
some lines that accumulated
stocks were cleared as well, and
for some months several im-
portant lines, including quick-
freeze green-peas, were out of
stock.
The improvement in the year’s
profit was £10,400. That was
after allowing an additional
£18,549 for depreciation
(£62,549), an extra £4OOO for
taxation (£53,500) and writing
off the cost (£3975) of the new
share-issue:
Eref. R e "
Jne.Profit. p.c. / Ord. —s serves.
30, £ £ £ £
’50..69,607 3900 8 p.c. =27,200 210,150
’51*..70,411 3900 8 , ~27,200 249,461
Excess tax prov’n, £12,500.. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. 294,499
’52..61,263 3900 p.c.=26,552 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. 327,529
’53..38,288 3900 6£ p.c. =31,005 330,912
’64..78,730 3900 8 „ ~38,160 367,582
Share premiums, £2550 .. 370,132
Capital profit, £5019 .. .. 375,151
’55..89,130 3900 8 p.c. =41,878 418,503
The £89,130 of profit, which
excludes a capital gain of £5019
on sale of assets, was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show
16.3 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 16.5, 7.2, 11.5,
19.5 and 19.3 p.c. back to 1950.
On issued ord. capital as it stood
at the close of accounts
(£653,000, of which £15,151 was
still to come in) the year’s avail-
able profit was 13 p.c. Since
money was wanted in the busi-
ness the div. was kept at 8 p.c.
No hint is given as to the
extent, if any, to which the
Devon factory contributed to net
earnings. The integration of the
new unit into the organisation
is certain to have added to exes.
When the reorientation is com-
plete, net earnings can be
expected to benefit, and, subject
to seasonal and economic con-
ditions, a moderate lift in the
div. is a reasonable anticipation
the mortgage - redemption
charge might stand in the way of
a marked increase.
There is nothing to worry
about in the financial structure,
which mainly reflects the Devon
deal and brisker trading, which
enabled stocks to be reduced by
£202,277 and the overdraft
(£226,039 at the previous
balance) wiped out:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £60,000 £60,000
Ord 477,000 687,849
Reserves .. .. 367,582 418,503
Mortgage .. .. 250,000
Overdraft . . .. 226,039
Creditors, etc. .. 72,632 146,004
Tax provision .. 65,529 54,593
Final divs. .. 23,415 27,133
£1,292,197 £1,593,082
Freeholds .. 303,785 474,865
Plant .. .. 189,978 398,572
Stocks .. .. 688,773 486,496
Debtors .. .. 108,511 167,770
Cash, etc. .. 1,150 65,379
£1,292,197 £1,593,082
Freeholds increased by £171,080,
plant by £208,594 and book-
debts by £59,259. When the
books closed there was only
6s. lid. belonging to the mort-
gagee and sundry creditors in
the business for every £ of share-
holders’ funds.
The f.-p. £1 ords., which sold
at 255. ex rights in February,
1955, are now priced at 28s. 6d.
to return 5.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. seldom
appear on the market. ' Net
tangible cover is £lB 17s. 2d.
prefs. and 295. 2d. ords.
North Kalgurli (1912), Ltd.
Transfer of the headquarters
from London to Australia, in
order to lighten the tax burden,
is under consideration, and
shareholders are to be advised
when the board has reached a
decision.
The mine, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
is opening up nicely at depth,
and production is to be increased.
To help finance extension of the
Croesus treatment-plant (esti-
mated cost £160,000) and deepen-
ing of the main shaft (down
1632 ft.) by a further 500 ft., those
on the register at February 8
were offered 1,100,000 new 2s.
shares, one-for-two, at a
premium of 2s. each. The issue
will lift paid capital to £330,000
in 2s. shares.
The Kalgurli Ore Treatment
Co.’s mill (in which Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie is the other
partner) is now being dis-
mantled and some of the
equipment transferred to the
Croesus mill, whose capacity is
to be lifted to 27,000 tons ore
per four-weekly period. This will
enable North Kalgurli, which has
bought South Kalgurli’s interest
in Croesus, to lift its ore-produc-
tion from 19,000 tons to 27,000
tons per period, and a saving of
about £70,000 p.a. in treatment
costs is expected.
For the 64 weeks to March 22,
1955, the co. treated 323,725
tons, averaging 4.96dwt., for
80,0850 z. fine gold. After allow-
ing for depreciation (£23,520)
and taxation (£54,546), the profit
was £69,333, of which a 9d. div.,
less U.K. income tax of Bs. 6d.
in the £, called for £46,750.
On a throughput of 27,000
tons ore per period, the
annual figure would be approxi-
mately the same as for the 64
weeks covered by the latest
accounts. So, other things being
equal, a saving of £70,000 in
costs would lift the profit-figure
to £193,879 before tax.
At December 31, 1955, ore
reserves were practically un-
changed at 2,269,049 tons,
averaging 5.57dwt. When the
books closed current assets
totalled £166,468, including
stores (£96,154), and current
liabilities and provisions
amounted to £182,876.
Clarence River Basin Oil
Shareholders are perplexed by
a lengthy circular from the
chairman asking whether they
are prepared to put up a
further 6d. per share to help
finance a new drilling campaign.
The idea is to buy two percus-
sion rigs (cost not stated), for
which the co. has enough in the
kitty (amount not specified) to
pay for one of them. Both
rigs are to be employed, if con-
sidered desirable, in drilling for
oil and gas on the co.’s own
behalf in the Clarence River
basin for the first six months.
Then it is proposed to enter the
contracting field with one of the
rigs, which, it is hoped, will
turn in enough profit to cover
the cost of continued explora-
tory drilling of the co.’s areas
by the other rig.
It is claimed that percussion-
drilling is not only vastly
cheaper, but also gives a truer
picture of the geology of the
area penetrated than does
rotary-drilling. The latter con-
tention is too sweeping to let
pass without comment.
Where relatively hard strata,
whose geological and structural
characteristics are already
known, are to be penetrated
percussion-drilling has its advan-
tages. In the Clarence River
district, however, conditions at
horizons deeper than those yet
reached, and where gas, and
even oil, might be met with,
have yet to be investigated. A
rotary rig would be capable of
giving continuous, adequate and
oriented cores, as well as addi-
tional information as to strike
and depth of beds and their
porosity and permeability.
With special equipment, the
percussion drill can give dis-
continuous cores, which may
show dip. But speaking generally
the percussion-driller depends
upon ditch samples giving
quantitative information. This
type of drilling is well suited for
targets where little more than
hit-or-miss information is
required. Indeed, where much
coring needs to be done, it is
doubtful whether percussion-
drilling is really much cheaper
than rotary-drilling, which also
has a number of technical
advantages additional to those
mentioned.
Oil and gas apart, the co.’s
chances of earning a satisfactory
rate of profit on its present
capital as a contract percussion-
driller don’t look particularly
encouraging at the moment.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Invitations have been issued by the
Governor and Lady Brooks to three
garden-parties at Government House.
First is on Thursday, March 8, the next
on Friday, March 9 (on each of these
days about 3000 guests will be received),
and the other on the Saturday morning at
10.30 a.m. (for 3000 members of the
various Youth Organisations in the
metropolitan area).
+l+ ♦♦♦
One of the highlights of this year’s
Moomba festival will be the Book Fair
in the Lower Town Hall. All literary
organisations will co-operate, and it will
be known as “S.S. Australiana.” The
decor will be a nautical design—Mr.
John Hipwell (advised by Hermon Gul,
the official naval historian) will be
responsible for it. The members of the
Literary Fund will be
present, and several of them will speak
during the luncheon-hours.
There will be a 'Rex Ingamells
Memorial Exhibit, comprising his pub-
lished books and manuscripts, and the
Navy is lending working-models of ships,
including one of an aircraft-carrier, The
Book Fair will be open from 10 a.m. to
10 p.m. from March 13 to 17.
To launch plans for the Book Fair,
Dr. A. Fabinyi, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Book Fair Council, was host at a
late-afternoon party at the Wentworth.
Among those present were writers Mary
Kent Hughes, Bertha Johnston, Nettie
Palmer, Zafia Webb and Jean Campbell.
* ☆ ☆
Hungarian tenor Miklos Gafni opened
the.A.B.C.’s 1956 celebrity-season with
a recital at the Town Hall. There was
no after-the-concert party, for the tenor
prefers to rest after his performances.
His wife was in the audience wearing a
princess-line frock made of a beautifully-
embroidered orchid-pink French-lace.
Also in audience was the A.B.C.’s
Federal concert-manager, Mr. Roy Lamb,
of Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Raveloe Auxiliary, which works
for the Animal Welfare League, will start
the year’s activity on March 3 with a
garden-party barbecue and dance at the
home of Dr. and Mrs. Rex Walpole at
Box Hill South. Tickets are three-guineas
the double, and ticket-secretaries are
Mrs. D. Rumbold (UY3540), Mrs. John
Warlow (BJ4083) and Mrs. Allan Wright
(UY2584).
ir ☆ ☆
Ann, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. W. Lyon, of St. Kilda-road,
was a beautiful bride in her exquisite
gown of fine French-lace, with the waist
defined by white taffeta and featuring a
long-fringed detachable train. A match-
ing lace Juliet-cap held in place her
circular elbow-length tulle veil, and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias.
As she-walked down the aisle of St.
John’s, Toorak, Ann was attended by
Mrs. Peter Gray, matron-of-honor, and
bridesmaid Janet Dunlop. Both wore
frocks of white taffeta featuring the long
torso and short bouffant skirts. Their
bouquets of hydrangea matched their
small Dior-pink caps. The bridegroom,
John Nevinson, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. N. W. Faulkner, of Eerilya, Rock-
bank, had Ted Gleeson as best man, and
Val Morgan was groomsman.
Reception was at No. 9 Darling-street,
where the bride’s parents, by
those of the ’groom, received over 200
guests. Mrs. Lyon’s frock of gunmetal
guipure-lace was cut on sheath-lines to
just above the knees, where it belled out
in attractive flares. Her cloche hat was
of matching swathed-tulle. Mrs. Faulkner
wore pale-beige satin with a chocolate-
brown tulle cloche finished with one large
pink rose. Among the guests were Mrs.
Lionel Grimwade, Air-Vice-Marshal F.
Scherger, Mr. and Mrs. Percy Northrupp,
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Legge, and Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Jones.
*☆ . ☆
Dorothy Coates and her fiance,
Kenneth Pizzey, have chosen Easter
Saturday for their wedding at St. John’s,
Toorak. Dorothy, who is the youngest
daughter of Sir Albert and Lady Coates,
of Toorak, is finishing her midwifery-
training at the Royal Women’s Hospital.
Kenneth is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Claude Pizzey, of Heidelberg. Among
the parties being arranged for Dorothy is
one to be given by her sister-in-law, Mrs.
W. H. Coates, of Blackburn. Mrs. Peter
Roberts will be her sister’s matron-of-
honqr, and Pat Gray will be bridesmaid.
Adele Inge was born in St. Louis
( U.S.A.) and began skating at eight years
of age. A year later she joined Sonja
Henie’s “Ice Follies” in Chicago ; she
has since skated in most of the big cities
in U.S. and Brazil, and also she has
made a skating “short” for Warner Bros.
She will appear in the next Tivoli show,
“Spice and Ice,” which commences on
Saturday, February 18.
Most unusual civic-reception was that
given by Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck
and Lady Selleck for Moral Rearmament
founder Dr. Frank Buchman and the'
group of people who are with him. Guests
waited over an hour-and-a-half to hear
Dr. Buchman speak, but he remained
silent, although others had plenty to say.
Among those who eulogised the visitors
were W. Kent Hughes, Arthur Calwell
and A. G. Warner (who represented the
Premier). Prince Richard of Hesse (he
is a descendant; of Queen Victoria), Col.
the Hon. Hore-Ruthven, his wife and
daughter spoke. But the hillbilly trio
which accompany the M.R.A. group
didn’t add much to the dignity of the
occasion. Guests included Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Menzies, Mrs. Robert Hamilton,
Councillor and Mrs. J. Ferguson, Sir
Robert and Lady Knox and Sir William
Angliss.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Lindsay Mildred, president of the
Kurneh Auxiliary to the Queen Victoria
Hospital, has announced that an Antique
Exhibition will be held at Kurneh, the
home of Dame Mabel and Sir Norman
Brookes, in Domain-road, South Yarra,
in aid of auxiliary funds. The exhibi-
tion will be opened at a gala supper-dance
on March 16, when Lady Brooks, wife
of the Governor, will be present.
Tickets for the supper-dance may be
obtained from Mrs. Ross Grey Smith
(BM 1516) and Mrs. Robert Gove
(BY 3055). On March 17, 18 and 19 the
exhibition will be open to the public,
from whom a small donation will be
asked.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Charles Lane, 191 Kooyong-road,
Toorak, is organising a garden-party
and mannequin-parade at her home on
March 4 at 2.30 p.m. Proceeds will go
to the Australian-American clubrooms-
fund. More information may be
obtained by ringing Mrs. W. E. Llewel-
lyn (WY 2418).
☆ ☆ ☆
Having just completed the decor of
her new home on the heights of Kew,
Mrs. P. L. Coleman invited friends to a
small house-warming luncheon, where
decorations were lovely flowers from her
garden. The hostess wore a sea-green
silk-shantung frock. The skirt was
pleated and allied to a softly-draped
bodice.
Mrs. H. Silk, who has just returned
from Colombo, chose a silk frqck of peri-
winkle-blue blocked in white squares.
Mrs. Royden Honeyman wore deep-
mauve silk-shantung, Mrs. Frank Norris
a white silk frock patterned in lime and
black. Mrs. R. J. Dummett’s lipstick-
pink linen was embroidered in clusters of
white flowers. Mrs. C. Janssen chose
a sheath-frock of white linen, with red
accessories. Mrs. L. F. Sparks’s choice
was a silk frock in pale lemon.
SYDNEY
How the fashion for having matrons-
of-honor is growing! Lorraine Wilson
was attended by three of her young
married friends and one bridesmaid
when she married Edward Jones at St.
John’s Church, Forbes. They were Mrs.
John Ludovici, Mrs. James Sandy and
Mrs. Peter Webb. Her bridesmaid was
Anne Messenger. All wore white faille
dresses sashed at the high waistline with
yellow satin, which matched the lilies
they carried. The bride, who is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Wilson,
of Droubalgie, Forbes, wore cream
Chinese-silk brocade and carried a
sheaf of white lilies. The bridegroom,
second son of Mr. and Mrs. Owen
Jones, of Double Bay, was attended by
Campbell Webb, Michael Jones, John
Clifford and Alan Wilson. Reception
was held at Wandary, Forbes, formerly
the home of the bride’s grandmother,
Mrs, W- H. Stitt.
Parents who want to go the right way
about encouraging young children in
their attempts to draw and paint will
find Child Art, by Isabel Mackenzie
(Angus and Robertson), a great help.
Miss Mackenzie was the first practising
teacher of art in N.S.W. to go abroad to
investigate contemporary-art methods,
and though she does not claim to intro-
duce any new material, her explanation
of why children produce the work they
do and her setting-out of methods where-
by they can be helped should prove very
useful.
It is important for parents, says Miss
Mackenzie, not to try to force the child
to produce work of which only adults
are capable, for a child’s education in art
should be aimed at developing character,
not at turniifg him into a fully-fledged
artist.
The stages of a child’s artistic develop-
ment are discussed, and what is expected
of the parent at each stage; suitable
handicrafts are suggested, and the use
and significance of color and suitable
pictures for children are all treated in a
practical way. A final piece of advice is
of great importance—that the child
should be quite unaware that he is the
subject of study, and should be made to
feel that the interest is solely in his own
story.
☆ ☆
Newly - engaged Margaret Carter,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. O. Carter,
is making plans for her wedding, which
is to take place on July 21 at Riverview
College Chapel. Her fiance, Captain
Richard Hannigan, is an Old Boy of the
college and a graduate of Duntroon.
Margaret’s engagement-ring is of
sapphires and diamonds. Photo by Nor-
ton-Trevaire.
Two constant first-nighters were absent
from the audience at the Independent’s
opening of the enthralling play “The
Rose Tattoo;” They were Ruth Henry
and Jean Garling, who made their appear-
ance on the stage as two gossipy women
and who seemed as much at home behind
the footlights as before them. Doris
Fitton was at the opening, having flown
back from Perth that day after the con-
clusion of the very successful “Medea”
tour with Judith Anderson. However,
she couldn’t be persuaded to make a
speech at curtain-call, so May Hollin-
worth, the producer, who had made a
rule “no curtain-speeches,” had at last
to be. prevailed upon to say a few words.
V V V
Noticed in an American magazine, an
advertisement for “whisky-flavored tooth-
paste, Scotch, Bourbon or Rye.” Imagine
the value of this to late-homecoming
husbands and erring motorists, who will
have the unanswerable argument in “I
have not been drinking, my dear” (or
sergeant); “I have just been cleaning my
teeth.”
☆ * ☆
Mrs. C. M. Guiney has been elected
president of the special committee which
is organising the International Dinner to
be held at Legion House on Wednesday,
March 14, in aid of the Catholic Welfare
Bureau. This dinner forms part of the
Know Your Neighbor Week (March 12
to 17), which will also include the Inter-
national Concert on Friday, 16th, the
committee for which is under the guid-
ance of Mrs Paul Nelson. Mrs. Tom
Bateman and Mrs. Mary Lewis will be
speakers for the Forum on Tuesday,
March 13.
☆ ☆ *
Greta Garbo in “Camille” is drawing
crowds of nostalgic “middle-ageds” to
the Liberty Theatre, and her beauty is
astonishing the younger generation who
had not seen her before. Garbo’s is not
the face that launched a thousand ships,
but it certainly set the pattern for many
a thousand faces. Before her appear-
ance the ideal of feminine beauty included
pink-and-white complexions, soft, round
faces, Cupid’s-bow lips. She set another
standard of beauty, which called for
high cheekbones, pale complexions, large
mouths. It seems strange, as Cecil
Beaton has pointed out in his book The
Glass of Fashion , that one who has so
little interest in fashion herself should
have had such an overwhelming influence
upon fashionable appearance for more
than 20 years.
☆ ☆ ☆
Rain-fashions vary greatly in Sydney,
but a new note was struck during the
week’s two days of torrents from above.
Many girls wearing expensive raincoats,
hats, umbrellas, etc., were observed
tripping round the city barefooted. Pre-
sumably their shoes were in their tote-
bags ready to be put on as soon as their
owners got in out of the wet. It seems an
odd reversal of form, but it makes sense
in one way.
☆ ☆ ☆
The extra day provided by 1956 comes
up shortly, and doubtless there are many
young women toying with the idea of
making use of it. How to start a pro-
posal of marriage is always a problem,
even for men, but there is an added
hazard for women, because their pro-
posal can be so easily taken for a joke,
so perhaps the best way to begin is “Now,
I’m serious,” and if he doesn’t make his
escape at that point it’s worth while
going on.
Also in the lighter vein, workers for
charity are making good use of the extra
day. There will be a leap-year luncheon
in aid of Fobd for Babies Fund at the
home of Mrs. L. A. Buckley, 30 Wattle-
street, Killara, on Wednesday, February
29, and a leap-year party called a
“Bachelors Beware Barbecue” organised
by the Younger Set of the Food for
Babies Fund at Bronte House on Satur-
day, February 25.
☆ ☆ *
The Phillip-street Theatre has added
some excellent nevy items to its
“Two to One” revue, which has now
passed its 100th performance. “Cornelius
Crockett” —about a boom in the fur-
trade—is really hilarious; “The Maoris
Are Coming” is a clever mingling of
burlesque and Maori music. There are
10 new numbers.
Success has come to many artists who
started their professional-stage career at
Phillip-street. There are Charles Tingwell
in “Deep Blue Sea” and John Bonney in
“Teahouse,” for J. C. Williamson’s ; June
Salter is in “Laugh Around the Clock’ 1
at the Tivoli, Shelto Jonker in “Kismet'
for Garnet Carroll, and John Parker
in the title-role of “The Boy Friend.’
Also, Shirley Sunners is now dancing at
the Palladium in London, and comedian
Lyle O’Hara is televising there for the
new commercial station. Script-writers
John McKellar, Gerry Donovan and
Lance Mulcahy have established them-
selves with the 8.8. C., but will continue
to send back material for use in revue
at the Phillip-street Theatre,


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JAMES LEE formerly of
274 Addison Road Petersham. —TAKE
NOTICE that MONICA ELIZABETH
LEE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2342 of 1953 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme .Court Sydney
by 27th April 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS & BUTT-
FIELD, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
kuv mom sate!
SANDERS
d^FILEI
fi.rn
esfei
1
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect boolc of reference
the end of each month
any other period.
s a
Prices and far*
lher information
apoa appiioatioa
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
BERTH
' i
t
Norman Brot, Pty.
Vardon Prlc* Lid.
Dwket Book Co. WiiM
Tm convinced
CAPSTAN is
better tobacco!
m
M.
■ < .
V' V' '
I JgHgs
■
9
“I really appreciate a good, smooth smoke
after a day on the road. When the caravan
is ship-shape for the night I relax and
enjoy Capstan Tobacco. With Capstan s
awn blend of fine Virginia tobaccos, you
can always be sure of flavour, fresh
fragrance and smooth smoking.”
m
Ask everywhere for —
CAPSTAN
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
342D.10.5S
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Rose Tattoo”
A Tennessee Williams play
set in a U.S. Gulf Coast village
inhabited mainly by Sicilians,
this, at Doris Fitton’s Indepen-
dent Theatre, North Sydney,
has the benefit of a very sensi-
tive production by May Hollin-
worth, and a performance by
Lyndall Barbour of such sus-
tained intensity that one could
well believe her when she said
at the finish that she hadn’t
enough energy to make the
curtain - speech which the
audience vociferously demanded.
Miss Barbour plays a
Sicilian widow whose husband
was killed in a truck-smash;
she nourishes her memory of
him before an oratory on which
she keeps his ashes beside a
figure of the Virgin; the
intensity of her grief and pride,
stirred-in with her hot Latin
temperament, turns her into a
half-mad sloven given mainly to
explosive boasting of her dead
husband’s prowess and to almost
hysterical devices to keep her
daughter away from men.
To precipitate something out
of this smouldering situation Mr.
Williams drops into it a young
sailor, who falls for the
daughter, and another truck-
driver, a cheerful ox of a man,
who falls for the widow.
Miss Barbour made such an
intense business of the early
scenes that one felt she was
certain to have a sticky finish,
and there was a slight bump in
the proceedings when it became
apparent that Mr. Williams
wasn’t hell-bent on tragedy, but
was merely contenting himself
with a long look at life as, pre-
sumably, it is lived by the
people he portrays. Possibly the
audience was responsible for the
sudden change in mood —it
laughed more often than it
should have and in the wrong
places.
At any rate, it was only a
minor note of discord, and Miss
Barbour went on to finish with
an even finer flourish than she
started with. The assistance she
got from a plentiful and able
cast included outstanding per-
formances from Kenneth Warren
and Benita Harvey.
“Summer and Smoke”
Another piece by Tennessee
Williams, put on by the Union
Theatre Repertory Co. at Mel-
bourne University, this concerns
a young doctor whose interest
is divided between his science
and a number of girls who flit
across his path.
His deepest attachment is for
a parson’s daughter, who is so
confused in her emotions that
she wouldn’t notice if a giraffe
walked across the table. She is
so unaware of any biological
basis for her feeling for the
doctor that when he endeavors to
explain it she has a fit of
hysterics.
His explanation having failed
to enlighten her, the doctor goes
off with an easier lady, but, un-
able to satisfy himself with this
one, he comes back to the first.
Unfortunately his scientific ex-
planation has merely served to
add one more unfortunate asso-
ciation to the ones the parson's
daughter has already, and the
moment he makes a gesture
towards her she has another fit
of hysterics. Instead of trying to
understand why she does it, he
gives her up as hopeless and goes
off with another girl. Thereupon
she takes a leaf out of his book
by going off with a commercial-
traveller.
Dramatically, the play is all
bits and pieces, and. the facts,
even if true, are unrelated, like a
surrealist painting. His characters
are similar to Dostoevsky’s, but
are not seen from within as
Dostoevsky’s are. Williams seems
to give only one aspect of them,
and it is as difficult to identify
oneself with the plight of the
doctor as it is with that of the
parson’s daughter.
Edward Webster did his best
with the muddlement of the
doctor and Pamela Greenall
threw plenty of feeling into the
parson’s daughter’s frustrations.
The rest of the cast lived a
tenuous existence on the out-
skirts. Wal Cherry made a
reasonably good fist of a set
which consisted of a rectory and
a doctor’s office in which walls
and doors were left to the
imagination.
& * *
Mozart Festival
An admirable feature of
Bernard Heinze’s conducting
during the big Sydney festival
has been —as well as his natural
feeling for Mozart subtleties and
refinements - his consistent
throttling-back of orchestral
volume in the interests of con-
certo-soloists and singer. Espe-
cially for a thin-voiced instru-
ment like the violin, which can
be blasted off the platform by
any one of the brasses, this is of
first importance. As a result,
each of the solo-instrumentalists,
as well as soprano Glenda Ray-
mond, have been heard to the
very best advantage.
The programme - arranging,
too, has been exceptionally good.
For instance, the second pro-
gramme ended, instead of having
begun, with the “Magic Flute”
overture. This was Mozart’s last
great opera, written in the full
maturity of his powers, and its
big dramatic Impact, heavier
string-texture and brilliant wood-
wind-writing afforded startling
contrast to the music that had
gone before —music of the com-
poser in his ’teens and twenties.
The programme began with
the gay, graceful Divertimento
No. 17, K. 334, a four-movement
piece which is in reality expanded
chamber-music, with French-
horn addition. There was the
Violin Conceko No. 4, K. 218,
product of the composer’s 19th
year, replete with all the violin-
istic embellishments and as sound
architecturally as any he wrote.
Ronald Woodcock, after some
uncertainty of tone in the open-
ing bars, settled down to some
fine playing, very spirited in the
rondeau and conjuring a good
flowing lyricism in the andante.
The Symphony was the No.
28 in C Major, K. 200, which
brought to a close Mozart’s
perio4 of the “intimate” sym-
phony, scored sparingly. Full
of youthful exuberance, it got
a reading which gave that
characteristic full play.
Glenda Raymond was again in
fine voice for the aria “Liebes
Leben,” from “Zaide,” and the
concert aria “No, No che Non
Sei Capace,” K. 419, both in the
composer’s most felicitous vein.
The third concert comprised
the Symphony No. 38, notable
for the omission of a minuet,
and which has a reposeful
andante sandwiched between two
allegros, the second of which has
a merry dialogue taken at break-
neck speed between the various
choirs; it was splendidly per-
formed by the orchestra.
There was the Clarinet Con-
certo, in which Mozart, who was
the first to give this instrument
place in the symphonic scheme,
exploited to the full the clarinet’s
big range, in rippling runs and
lovely melodies. Gabor Reeves,
the soloist, provided a bass tone
of rare purity.
The Concerto for Two Pianos,
K. 365, with soloists Joyce
Hutchinson and Dorothy White
jousting playfully with each
other and the orchestra, was a
brilliant example of the com-
poser’s ability to write flawless
music of a sunny nature on the
heels of the dashing of one of
his richest hopes.
*> ♦>
Miklos Gafni
Since he was here nine years
ago, Miklos Gafni, the
Hungarian singer, has grown
extraordinarily like an Italian
opera-singer in appearance. He
brought to the Melbourne Town
Hall platform the familiar sad,
if not wooden, expression and
the same conventional gestures
that Italian opera-singers have,
and it was only after the
prolonged applause that followed
“E Lucevan le Stelle” that a
faint smile flitted across his face
like a ray of wintry sunshine.
There seemed to be something
wintry about his singing of “Du
Rist Wie Eine Blume” and
Richard Strauss’s “Dedication,”
and something a bit too ornate
and florid in his rendering of
“Ah, Si Ben Mio” from “H
Trovatore.” There is no doubt,
however, that he knows how to
sing loudly, and that he
thoroughly enjoys exercising his
powers in that direction when-
ever an opportunity to do so is
presented. Whether or no he
always does it with due discre-
tion is another matter.
Henri Penn showed admirable
good taste and discrimination
at the piano.
* ®
Alan Wilmore
The report that organists are
a dying race must have been
exaggerated. One of the
fraternity is sufficiently alive to
have won the Sir William Clarke
Scholarship with that ponderous
instrument, against the competi-
tion of the piano, violin, ’cello,
flute, voice and other handier
means of making music.
The winner is an intense, keen
youth named Alan Wilmore, and
the other evening he sat above
the Melbourne Town Hall plat-
form overshadowed by its
enormous organ and woke that
instrument out of a sleep which
citizens were beginning to think
was eternal.
He showed much more deli-
cacy and feeling than is usually
expected from a student in play-
ing Bach’s Passacaglia in C
Minor *jnd one of the movements
of his Sonata No. 4 in E Minor,
and though there was a lack of
decision in a Prelude and Fugue
by Saint-Saens, there was delight-
ful ease in Mozart’s Fantasia in
F Minor. Wilmore finished
by making his machine dance
soberly in a Dithyramb of
Edward Harwood.
Marisi Bertoldini sang some
Italian songs with relish.
Talkies
“The Prisoner” (Melbourne
Odeon): • More-or-less on the
Cardinal Mindszenty business,
this British film is infinitely
better than the previous film with
that basis. It sees all round the
subject, suggesting rather than
asserting, and there is a mag-
nificent scene where Alec Guin-
ness, as the Cardinal, is interro-
gated by Jack Hawkins, as the
Inquisitor who uses modern
psychiatrical methods to extract
the sort of confession made more
than once at these trials and
explained on the assumption that
the accused had been drugged,
or tortured beyond endurance.
The Inquisitor lays bare the
resistance in the Cardinal’s un-
conscious which has dominated
him from childhood. He has a
horror of the flesh, and when
he took his vows he was giving
up nothing. He was merely
ambitious. As he says in the
course of the interrogation, he
wasn’t putting God first; he was
putting himself first. The In-
quisitor cleverly insinuates into
his mind, debilitated by suffering,
the idea that he must now lower
himself back to the gutter from
where he came, and that the best
way to do this is to confess
publicly to crimes against society,
the State and his own people that
he never committed.
That he has nobility in him is
shown after he has been sen-
tenced. The death-sentence is
commuted and he is told that
he-can go free, since he is harm-
less now, having destroyed his
own prestige. He is offered the
alternative of suicide, but refuses
it and walks out of the prison-
gates into a world completely
hostile to him.
Whether or no this was the
case with Cardinal Mindszenty,
it is a very thoughtful picture.
“To Catch a Thief” (Sydney
Prince Edward): With rather less
tension than most Alfred Hitch-
cock films, this Riviera thriller
is still a good yarn about an
ex-jewel-thief who, to prove that
a string of jewel-robberies are
not his work, sets out to catch
the real culprit. Cary Grant
makes a welcome return to the
screen with a suave performance,
and Grace Kelly is a natural in
the role of a millionaire’s
daughter and generally gives the
Technicolored landscapes of the
south of France a run for their
money in the matter of beauty.
“Count Three and Pray” (Syd-
ney Capitol): A sluggish action-
piece about a U.S. Civil War
soldier who abandons his wild
ways to become a backwoods
preacher. It falls somewhere
between melodrama and humor.
Van Heflin, as the exponent of
muscular Christianity, finds the
going hard, but Joanne Wood-
ward makes an impressh e screen-
debut as an untameable tomboy.
“Trial” (Sydney St. James): A
powerful drama in which a
young law professor, to gain
experience, takes a job with a
practising solicitor. He is
briefed to defend a Mexican boy
on a charge of murder, and finds
he has to contend with political
jury-rigging and race-prejudice;
the solicitor turns out to be a
Communist and the party takes
up the cause, later sabotaging
the defending professor’s work
when the party-line is cynically
twisted in the belief that the boy
will serve the party-interest
better as a dead martyr.
r Arthur Kennedy, as the
rabble - rousing Communist
lawyer, gives an outstanding
performance, and Dorothy
McGuire, as his disillusioned
fellow-traveller clerk, gives good
support. Glenn Ford, as the
professor, is his usual quiet,
tight-lipped self.


The Feudal touch
By E.O Schlunke
“X\T7° N D E R F u U
\Y / woman!” said big,
W corpulent storekeeper
Bownell.
“Wonderful woman all right!”
said thin, neurotic life-insurance
man Aitchison.
“Yes, no doubt at all about it,
wonderful woman,” said tall,
sharp-eyed lawyer Penn.
It was one of those spon-
taneous character - evaluations
which happen to so many resi-
dents of country towns, particu-
larly if thrust, even briefly, into
a little prominence. Evaluations
which come to be adopted by the
whole town, and adhered to
unquestioningly, even when made
in circumstances likely to warp
judgment.
The three men, having
delivered their opinion without
a suspicion of the profound effect
it might have on their futures,
then turned in their seats and
looked out of the windows of
the plane. They were returning
from a big bowling-carnival in
Sydney, and, being all boys
together above a floor of
dazzling white clouds arranged
in beautiful rhythmic patterns by
the wind for their benefit, they
were inclined, even if nothing
dramatic had happened to them
in the past few days, to be
emotional.
Fred Whynott, the- husband
of the wonderful woman, was sit-
ting just out of hearing (which
didn’t need to be very far away
in the kind of plane which serves
the less important country
towns), quiet and wrapped in a
rug. Fred had given the
members of his team a fright at
the bowling - carnival; he’d
suddenly collapsed and looked as
if he was going to die.
No doctors available, of
course, on a holiday, until they
discovered one participating in
a critical semi-final of the same
carnival in a near-by suburb, but
he was so long in coming that
Fred canae-to before he arrived.
This doctor, most perfunctory
with anyone interrupting his
game and intruding on his leisure,
gave Fred no more than a severe
look and said,
“Ah, I know what’s wrong
with him. Like all you country
fellows, you try to crowd a whole
year’s dissipation into one city
weekend. Booze, women, late
nights. Get him back to his
hotel and put him to bed. Take
him home quietly and see that he
sees his doctor when he gets
there.”
Fred was the owner of a Small
delicatessen business in Jindulla,
and was neither so admirable nor
likeable a character as to qualify
for the companionship of such
local tycoons as storekeeper
Bownell or lawyer Penn, if he
hadn’t been an outstanding
bowls-player. The other man in
the party, Aitchison, had
achieved a sudden elevation
among them becapse of his pro-
fession’s close association with
sudden death. Now that
ministers of religion are less
inclined, and in fact less able, to
frighten people about what is
going to happen after they die,
this function has been largely
taken over by the insurance-man.
“Do you feel satisfied that you
have made adequate provision
for your family when you go?”
Aitchison was always asking the
husbands and fathers of
Jindulla, nailing them with his
worried eyes.
He looked back to make sure
that Fred wasn’t listening, then
he leaned across the gangway to
where the other two men were
seated together in the security of
their common affluence, to say in
his most earnest and confidential
manner, “Just between us, I’ll
tell you something. Feel you
ought to know, being mixed up
in this business and sort of
responsible for him. He’s only
covered for two-hundred ; always
claimed he couldn’t afford to
increase it.”
T3OWNELL and Penn assumed
the pained expressions of
men who could hardly conceive
of a man’s haying so small a
policy.
“If it happened,” said
Aitchison, “where would his
family be?”
“In the gutter,” said Penn.
“She couldn’t run the shop
herself.” Bownell gave his
well - considered businessman’s
opinion. “Not and look after
the children as well.”
“Terrible for her,” said
Aitchison, “coming from such a
fine family and being so well
brought-up.”
Bownell and Penn had a
deliberate look at Fred Whynott;
the man who hadn’t provided
adequately for his family in case
it happened. They would never
feel the same about him again;
his devotion to bowls, which
had made them tolerant of his
insignificant business status and
his rather unappreciative manner,
now began to wear a complexion
not of virtue, but of vice.
“The worst of it,” Bownell
said, “is that if he’s got what I
think he’s got, there’ll be no
chance of his increasing his cover
even if he is willing to do it.”
“Or able,” said Penn, thinking
at the one moment of the size of
life-insurance premiums for
middle-aged men, and the
revealed penury of Fred
Whynott.
“It puts all the bigger respon-
sibility on us,” Aitchison decided
authoritatively.
Penn recoiled from the
suggestion.
“We’ve got no responsibility,”
he declared.
“I can’t agree with you,”
Aitchison objected. “What if
he’d died? Wouldn’t you have
felt that it was up to you two,
as the most affluent men in
Jindulla, to do something big for
his wife and family?”
Bownell nodded in ponderous
agreement.
“We’re his bowling mates, too.
If something had happened while
he was away with us, we couldn’t
just let his widow battle for
herself; especially when she’s
such a wonderful woman.”
“I don’t deny that a certain
gesture of assistance would be
expected of us,” Penn said,
peevishly because of the prospect
of being enmeshed, “but I still
say that we have no legal
responsibility.”
“No legal responsibility,”
Aitchison emphasised the word,
too, but he did it to show that he
lived in a world far transcending
such petty quibbles.
“But pretty solid responsi-
bilities all the same,” Bownell
said, and smiled his characteristic
urbane smile.
Bownell was an example of a
fairly familiar country type ; the
successful businessman whose
chief assets are His amiable
exterior and his agreeable per-
sonality. He was shrewd enough
to know that to keep the people
of Jindulla crowding his general
store in the face of chain-store
competition, he had to maintain
both their affection and their
respect.
For that reason he had come
to adopt a role similar to that
of a feudal lord. The ordinary
inhabitants contributed to his
wealth, they respected him and
deferred to him ; but he, on the
other hand, acknowledged a
responsibility to protect the
unfortunate among them from
the worst effects of ordinary
human disasters.
pRED WHYNOTT claimed to
-*■ be feeling very bad when
they arrived at the Jindulla
airport, so the three bowlers
decided that they ought to take
him home. Each was met by his
wife or some member of his
family in a car; but they
suddenly realised that they hadn’t
thought of letting Mrs. Whynott
know of her husband’s condition.
It was up to them to go along
together and share the blame for
the shock they were going to give
her.
During her husband’s absences
Mrs. Whynott looked after the
delicatessen shop in a manner
which could be described as
“wonderful” only by making
allowances for the fact that she
found the task extremely
onerous. Customers with their
sharp eyes on the scales, with
their authoritative knowledge of
fixed prices, with their passion
for exact change, terrified her.
They might come in smiling and
friendly, but Mrs. Whynott knew
that a snarling she-wolf
lurked ■ within every woman
shopper; so she was slow, full
of hesitations, apt to give too
much for fear of giving too
little.
But what made a man like
Bownell think she was wonderful
was that she did keep the busi-
ness open over a long weekend
despite of having her children to
look as well; that she put
on a brave show despite her
fears; and that to a discerning
and sympathetic man like him,
she had a wistful air that told him
she had hoped for something very
much better from life, and that
sometimes she found the
accumulated strains of Fred, the
business and the children just
too much for her.
This was presumption on
Bownell’s part, because he could
only guess at the relationship
between the Whynotts. However,
he watched her closely when, the
three cars having drawn up in
front of the shop like a funeral
procession, and the three men
having carried the invalid into
the house and put him to bed,
Fred began to demand cups of
tea, aspirin-tablets and hot-
water bottles of his wife as if she
had been a servant.
What Bownell saw on her face
convinced him he had been right
in his guess. She had a soft,
expressive face, and big heavy-
lidded eyes which she kept down-
cast or half-closed most of the
time, either out of nervousness
or because she may have realised
that they revealed so much of
what she felt.
WHEN Fred was settled to his
satisfaction, had received
rather moodily the final good-
wishes of his friends, and Mrs.
Whynott was showing them out,
she suddenly put her hands over
her face, and said in a voice that
sounded rather like that of a
bewildered and frightened young
girl:
“Oh, Mr. Bownell, what am I
going to do if anything happens
to Fred?”
Bownell patted her shoulder
encouragingly, taking her appeal
to him as quite natural and right,
while the others looked on, dis-
comforted and distressed.
“Now, now, don’t worry, Mrs.
Whynott,” Bownell said; “we’ll
do whatever we can for you if the
worst should happen, you can
depend on us. I promise you
that; and Penn does, too, don’t
you, Penn?”
Mrs. Whynott put down her
hands to look at Penn, and he
was so affected by her over-
wrought appearance that he
nodded vigorously.
“I’ll regard it as my duty,” he
promised.
“I’ll do what I can, too,”
Aitchison volunteered; “in my
way.”
Not being affluent like the
others, this was his way of stating
that he wouldn’t be contributing
money. Mrs. Whynott regarded
them all solemnly, looking
supremely wistful. Bownell
patted her shoulder again.
“Well, we’d better be off. We
can’t do any more now.”
They tramped out of the living-
quarters into the shop. Here
Bownell saw the responsibilities
with his businessman’s eyes; he
had another of those feudal
impulses which had added so
much to his local stature.
“I’ll send a man up from my
place to look after your shop for
a few days ; until Fred is on his
legs again.”
Mrs. Whynott was so affected
by this generous thoughtfulness
that she smiled at Bownell. Then
she dried her eyes and submitted
to having her hand pressed in a
consolatory gesture.
“Wonderful woman,” they all
said to each other as soon as they
got on to the footpath.
“Wonderful woman,” they said
again as they separated for their
cars; “we’ll certainly have to
look after her.”
WHEN next the three friends
met at the bowling club-
house, automatically putting on
the sombre images of men who
have participated in a near-
tragedy, Bownell asked:
“How’s Fred getting on?”
“Has he been tO/ see his
doctor?” Penn wanted to know.
They turned to Aitchison. He
became full of relief, caution and
sagacity.
“Funny thing,” he said, “Dr.
Pennycuick can’t find anything
seriously wrong with him. Says
his heart is all right.”
He stood there with his eyes
bulging and his chin sticking out
at the' wonder of it, turning from
Bownell to Penn and back again,
waiting for them to discover the
full significance of it.
“That is funny,”, Bownell
agreed, not catching on fully
was uppermost in the
insurance-man’s mind. “I’ve
been a bowler long enough to
see a lot of heart-collapses, and
if ever a man looked as if he
had a bad heart, that man was
Fred Whynott.”
Aitchison frowned at him as it
he was being not only extremely
THE POET AND HIS LOVE
The dawn is hesitant and so must creep
greyly to the shadows of the room . . .
the light betrays two lovers: one asleep,
breathing, dreaming, haloed in the gloom
by the other’s arm; this other one awake,
intent on his beloved’s tranquil face,
wondering, as lovers do, that it should make
perfection for him, then his fingers trace
the shapes of eyes, mouth, brow and nose
—a scurry of air rather than a touch
lest he disturb his lover’s white repose—
and to himself he says: “This is as much
as ever I have wanted,” and he lays
his head beside his lover’s, settles deep
into a joy beyond his power to phrase;
and as the day is poised two lovers sleep.
VICTORIA.
LAURENCE COLLINSON.


Aunin-Healey
BENZOL
makes all the difference
Any experienced racing driver will tell you the addition of extra BENZOL
to hi« fuel is a must to get Optimum Performance from his engine. Gruelling,
racing speed won’t interest private motorists but all the 'OP’ advantages of extra
BENZOL will . . . You’ll appreciate the
quicker starting, livelier acceleration and
smoother, more positive power of BP SUPER
or C.O.R STANDARD ...
s
the only motor spirits containing
BENZOL
'Something others haven’t got*
BP
SIW
SUPER
BPiSUPER. like Special Energol VIS CO'STATIC Motor Oil—the original 4 grades in I oil
acclaimed by world motorists—it worth so much more than the extra it costs.
Marketed by
THE COMMONWEALTH
17/C341D
OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The
slow in the uptake but most
undiplomatic as well.
“What I say is that Fred
has been given an opportunity
that is not given to many; he
has had his warning, and it’s still
not too late for him to get his
cover.”
‘You’d still take him on?”
Penn stared at him in surprise.
“I can only go on medical
advice,” Aitchison said dog-
matically. “Two doctors have
seen him ; the one in Sydney and
Doc Pennycuick here, and
neither has diagnosed a bad
heart.”
“But what do you think?”
Bownell demanded so bluntly
that a nervous tick flashed across
Aitchison’s face.
“When a professional opinion
has been given,” Aitchison
declared, “I no longer need to
think. Then it’s my duty to get
the man covered.” '
Penn wagged a lean forefinger
at him sharply, all lawyer.
“Ah, now, now,” he said,
“you’d better be careful or you’ll
involve yourself in a conspiracy
against your own company.”
“Nothing of the sort,”
Aitchison retorted, quite out-
raged at the suggestion. “I’ve got
my routine and I abide by every
letter of it. According to the
rules laid down I can go ahead
and Insure Fred with a clear
conscience. But I’ll take another
precaution. I’ll get the
company’s doctor to have a look
at him, too. Then if anything
happens to him, I’ll be in the
clear because of the extra pre-
caution I’ve taken.”
Penn and Bownell looked at
each other with brief, meaningful
glances, then back at Aitchison
with a slight wonder in their eyes
as he went on devotedly.
“Now my great ambition is to
get really adequate protection for
that wonderful woman, Mrs.
Whynott; and I think that I
can handle it.”
Bownell smiled delightedly,
realising how obtuse he’d been
all along.
“Of course, if you can do it,
it would be wonderful. Provide
ten times as much for her as Penn
and I could, if it came to the
worst.” He gave one of his
prodigious winks, as obvious as
a motorist’s hand-signal, to show
that he was making a departure
from the serious. “Lifts the
responsibility off us, too.”
“The assumed responsibility,”
Penn corrected him, but he did
it more as a matter of form. He
was obviously greatly relieved.
“Tell me,” Bownell said to a
doctor he and Penn had managed
to corner at one of the drinking-
tables some time later; not Dr.
Pennycuick, but another man
called Turner, “is there a kind of
heart-attack which can be a
danger to a man’s life, and yet
leave no trace that a doctor
examining him later can see?”
Turner was shocked as doctors
are when they think they are
being exploited professionally.
“No reference to any known
person,” Penn assured him.
“Bownell and I were just having
an argument.”
“Oh, all right,” Turner said
doubtfully. “There is a thing
we call an aneurysm, when a
blood-vessel near the heart, say,
gets a big bulge like a toy
balloon that’s blown-up too
tightly and is threatening to
burst. After the attack the
blood-vessel returns to its normal
size, but you can understand
that, like the toy balloon, there
is always a weakness at that spot
where it bulged.”
“You mean,” Penn asked him,
“that a man might come to you,
and though he’s actually in
danger of sudden death, you
wouldn’t be able to detect it.”
“I mightn’t,” the doctor
corrected him. “Sometimes an
X-ray will show it up, but the
chances are very much against
getting any clue at all.”
“All right,” said Bownell, clos-
ing the matter, “you were right,
Penn ; I buy the drinks. Have
one on each of us, Doc., for
your fee.”
A FEW days later when the
two tycoons entered the
clubhouse, Aitchison was there,
watching for them like a sheep-
dog and shepherding Dr.
Pennycuick. He collected the
three of them, ushered them to
a quiet corner, and left them with
a gesture of blessing.
The doctor was a brisk and
conscientious man. “Look here,”
he said, “this is strictly con-
fidential. It’s about Fred
Whynott. I’ve got an applica-
tion for a life-insurance policy ;
the only thing against him is that
collapse of his in Sydney. I
can’t get anything significant
about it from the doctor who
attended him down there ; appar-
ently he didn’t arrive until Fred
had recovered. Now, what can
you tell me about his
symptoms?”
A little tension visible in the
two businessmen. All very well
to be eager to get that wonderful
lady, Mrs. Whynott, all the
insurance she needs; but never
do to make any definite, quotable
statement which could be pro-
duced as evidence of conspiracy.
“We’re only laymen,” Bownell
said humbly ; “we wouldn’t know
anything about symptoms.”
“All we could say,” Penn
contributed with equal diffidence,
“is that he had a sort of fainting-
fit, and after a while he got over
it. There’s nothing serious about
that, is there?”
“There could be,” the doctor
said; “it would depend on the
circumstances. It might indicate
something very significant. On
the other hand, say he’d had a
few wild nights beforehand, it
might mean nothing serious at
all. Tell me, had he been play-
ing a bit fast and loose?”
“Oh, now, Doc.,” Bownell said
reproachfully, “if he’d been
doing things like that we couldn’t
come back telling tales about a
bowling mate. It might get
around to his wife, and that
would be too cruel to a fine
woman.”
The doctor eyed him peevishly.
“I wouldn’t tell anyone, you
know that. I take it that he had
been indulging?”
Dr. Pennycuick turned
impatiently from one non-
committal face to the other.
Bownell left it to the lawyer to
answer.
“I wouldn’t say he had, but
on the other hand I wouldn’t say
that he hadn’t. Bowlers never
tell.”
The doctor flushed with
annoyance. “Anyhow,” he said,
“if I asked you if he’d behaved
himself, and he had, then it
couldn’t possibly do any harm if
you said ‘yes.’ ”
“The point is,” the lawyer
argued, “that if we allowed you
to ask that question, and we
didn’t answer ‘yes,’ you’d con-
clude that the answer was ‘no,’
and where would the bowlers’
mutual trust be then?”
The doctor frowned a while,
then he said, “Since you’re being
so difficult, I’m going to decide
that the answer is ‘no, he didn’t
behave himself.’ ”
“It’s your responsibility if you
do,” Penn warned him; “we
didn’t say so.”
Then before the doctor could
start the cycle over again,
Bownell said, as if changing the
subject, “He got better very
quickly when he returned home,'
didn’t he?”
The doctor seemed to suddenly
see the light. “Ah,” he said,
“you mean when he got back to
his normally sober and decent
life?”
“I didn’t say anything,”
Bownell protested.
BUT the doctor grinned as if
satisfied that he understood
them at last. Immediately they
found Aitchison with them again,
beaming at what appeared to be
a favorable outcome of the
interview.
“No need now, Doc.,” he said
lightly, “for me to tell Mrs.
Whynott that you are the
obstacle in the way of securing
her future.”
“For heaven’s sake,” the
doctor exclaimed, “you wouldn’t
tell her that!”
“She’d know it though; I’ve
outlined the proposal to her, and
she knows that the only person
who would prevent it going
through is you.”
“Ah, you wouldn’t do that,
Doc.,” Bownell urged in a jolly
manner ; “not to a sweet woman
like Mrs. Fred! You wouldn’t
want to see her left destitute! ”
“I know her, and I admire
her,” Pennycuick said, “but I
wouldn’t let a thing like that
influence me.”
But Aitchison cut in on the
doctor’s exposition of his ethics.
“I’ve talked it over with Fred,
too. Naturally he had to know
about it.”
“Well, he’s going to pay the
premiums,” Penn asserted.
Aitchison looked at him
quizzically. “As a matter of fact,
you know something about the
position he’s in. At present he
hasn’t got a hope of raising the
premium for the substantial
policy he needs.”
“Ah, what a pity,” Bownell
deplored. “After all the trouble
you’ve had.”
“It’s a hell of a pity,” Penn
declared, seeing the implica-
tions ;< “he’s got to have that
policy,”
“I’m " glad to hear you say
that,” Aitchison pounced on
him ; “it makes what I have to
tell you so much easier. As a
matter of fact I took the liberty
of telling the Whynotts that two
good friends of theirs, who are
in very comfortable circum-
stances, would be prepared to
advance the money to pay the
premiums on a five-thousand-
pound policy for the first six
months; just so that there’d be
no delay in getting it started. I
couldn’t do any less than that,
could I?”
“You couldn’t do less?”
Penn’s voice was suddenly thick
with exasperation. “You mean
you couldn’t do more!”
But Bownell looked on
Aitchison with something very
like admiration. “We’re in it, I’m
afraid,” he said, with a good-
humored laugh. “Got to live
up to our position in the
community.”
“It’ll cost hundreds,” Penn
objected.
“Only this once, as far as we
know,” Aitchison tried to soothe
him. “I told Fred that I’d expect
him to do his very best to meet
the future premiums himself.”
“Futpre premiums,” Penn
exclaimed in a hushed voice, as
if he could see a procession of
them stretching endlessly down
the years, and he running the
risk of contributing to every one
of them. “What about repaying
our advance? When is he going
to do that?”
Aitchison ignored him and
turned on the doctor.
“You see what these men are
prepared to do for the sake of
a woman we all admire. I don't
think that now you'd have the
heart to quibble about any
fancied objection to a clean
certificate.”
“I’ll have to take the usual
precautions,” the doctor said
briefly.
But Aitchison did not look
unduly perturbed about what the
result would be.
WHEN Fred Whynott was get-
ting about again, the towns-
people, with their habit of
continually weighing and judging
a man, decided that he had
changed for the worse.
They had always classed him
as a grudging and unappreciative
character, but now they decided
that he had, as they put it, “gone
sour on himself.” The man
whom Bownell had lent to work
in his shop talked about it as an
absorbing phenomenon.
“Funny way that fellow
behaves towards a man who does
him a good turn,” he said to his
acquaintances in the pub at night.
“First pay-day comes; I drop a
few hints, but Mr. Freddy
Whynott doesn’t do a thing about
it. So I go and tell Bownell. He
looks a bit surprised. ‘Suppose
he’s not well enough to write a
cheque yet,’ he says, and writes
me one himself.
“Next pay-day it’s the same,
though he’s out playing bowls.
You’d think a man would have
enough pride not to want to take
another man’s money when he’s
well enough to do his own work.
But not him; not Mr. Freddy
Bloody Whynott.”
This was the sort of topic
which the townspeople loved to
discuss in and out of doors and
up and down the street. It was
inevitable that Bownell should
soon get to know what they were
saying to each other when they
gathered in their tight little
gossiping groups on the
footpaths.
It was all very well for him
to have it known round the town
that he was being openhanded
in providing free help for a sick
man; it made customers come
into his shop expecting similar
generosity. But in a town of
thrifty and consciously virtuous
people like Jindulla, there is a
well-defined line between being a
generous patron and what the
town called a “mug.”
Bownell knew this only too
well. He decided to go and see
Whynott, choosing the day on
which the new life-insurance
policy went into force; imagin-
ing, despite the gossip he’d been
hearing (which he was, in fact,
inclined to discount in his big-
hearted way), that it would be a
very auspicious occasion in the
Whynott household; both Fred
and Mrs. Whynott showering
him with grateful, if embar-
rassed, thanks.
Fred was in his sitting-room
in his bowling trousers, when
Bownell called, lying on a couch
from which he made a less than
half-hearted attempt to rise.
Bownell studied him while he
was exchanging light conversa-
tion with Mrs. Whynott, whom
he thought seemed even more
nervous than usual. From the
expression on Fred’s face, it
occurred to Bownell that
Whynott might not be as
innocently grateful as he’d hoped.
That made it rather hard for
him to get the intended heartiness
into his voice when he
announced the news about the
insurance policy; in fact, he
tended to sheer-off Fred and
direct himself at Mrs. Whynott.
“It’s all fixed up,” he said.
“Penn and I sent in our cheques
today.”
He didn’t get the desired
response from either. Mrs.
Whynott turned a timid glance
on Fred, who had the bad
manners to pull a lugubrious
( Continued, on next page )
SHALL I EXPLAIN?
Shall I explain, love,
What’s wrong with ua?
No need for arguing
Or stupid fuss.
Our love’s at October;
Its September is done,
September the month
That’s bright with stm.
The spring month, my dearest:
The ground grew flowers,
The air had its singing,
The days seemed hours.
It was the season.
What else could we do?
Sit down and wonder
Who needed who?
But that month is over,
And October has rain.
We’ll love one another
When the sun shines again.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


face. For a moment Bownell
was, for a man of his poise,
considerably nonplussed. Then
he suddenly decided that they
must be oppressed by the
melancholy associations of life-
insurance policies; deaths,
funerals, widows, orphans,
worries and sorrows.
The well-established business-
man, however, had a more
wholesome attitude towards
insurance, to which he could
introduce them; a little well-
chosen humor to cover up the
grimness. So he put on a heart-
ily cheerful expression, such as
he used so successfully with
Fred and the others on bowling-
tours.
“Now you can die any day
you like, Fred.” He gave a
resounding laugh so that there
would be no mistaking his good
intention.
But Fred pulled a worse face,
and Mrs. Whynott, observing
him, began to look terrified of
what her husband might do or
say.
“Very nice for you that
would be, too,” Fred remarked,
his eyes glinting spitefully at
Bownell. “So much more con-
venient for having your little
affectionate scenes with my wife,
than it is with me sick in the
next room.”
Bownell stared at him, more
astounded at the insinuation, if
that were possible, than
wounded by the ingratitude.
“You ought to apologise for
that,” he declared roundly.
“I’m only acting out of kind-
ness towards both of you. And
now you talk like this. It’s
monstrous, isn’t it, Mrs.
Whynott?”
XXE turned demandingly to the
A lady, and though she raised
her eyelids to give him a brief
glance which seemed to contain
understanding and sympathy,
she seemed incapable of making
any firm declaration in the face
of her husband’s hostility.
Bownell assumed an attitude
of dignity and severity. “I’m
very sorry you’ve decided to
behave like this,” he said, speak-
ing like a man far removed
from petty vices like spite and
suspicion. “I can only hope that
a time will come when you will
be able to rise above it, and
appreciate what has been done
for you and your family.”
Whynott sneered. “My
family, yes! What’s the
arrangement you’ve made?
You share the money with her
when I pass out, and the sooner
I do that the better?”
Mrs. Whynott made the
beginning of a protesting
exclamation. Her husband
looked at her, and she clapped
a hand over her mouth.
Bownell grew angry. “Why-
nott, you’ve got a low mind,”
he said..
Whynott laughed, almost as
if he was enjoying himself. He
raised a hand and pointed at
Bownell, fanatical self-righteous-
ness on his face.
“And what about you? You
think you can pass yourself off
as a paragon of virtue. You
never do anything wrong, do
you? Oh, no! Only make a
few false statements now and
then, and organise a conspiracy
to defraud a life-insurance com-
pany. Ha, look at him! ”
The last exclamation was the
result of Bownell springing to
his feet, and advancing on Why-
nott as if he were going to attack
him. Bownell in fact was badly
shaken, so that he acted with less
than his usual control.
“I made no false statement,
and I joined in no conspiracy.”
He thundered it out, turning
from one of the Whynotts to the
other and giving it to them
straight in the eye. But Whynott
did not appear to be impressed,
and even his wife seemed to be
thinking that her husband had
the advantage.
“All right,” Whynott adopted
a suave tone, which made him
even more unpleasant than
before ; “since you shout it so
loudly I suppose we’ll have to
believe it. Nevertheless, in view
of the fact that Dr. Pennycuick
went to you for information
about my collapse in Sydney,
and that as soon as he’d seen
you he stopped investigating the
condition of my heart; remem-
bering all that, now just tell me,
wouldn’t you feel terribly
worried if I died suddenly of
heart-trouble soon after you’d
arranged and paid for my
insurance-policy ? ”
YXfHILE Whynott was speak-
ing, Bownell was breathing
heavily, as though nearly suffo-
cated by the realisation of the
disastrous mistake he had made.
There was no question of his
worrying after Whynott had
died; he was worrying right
there and now.
He clenched and unclenched
his hands ; he raised and lowered
his arms in an agony of
exasperation. To have got him-
self into a situation like this
unnecessarily! Trying to do
good to other people! He pulled
himself together.
The right thing to do was to
behave with poise and assur-
ance, and put the scoundrelly
Whynott in his place; be curt
and correct and end the
unsavory scene as soon as
possible.
“I’ve done nothing I need
worry about. The doctor
arrived at his decision in his own
way, and anything I had to do
with it was done with the best
of intentions. Now I’ll say
good-night. And by the way,
since you are apparently quite
well again, I won’t be sending
my assistant to help you any
more.”
But instead of making an
effective exit, he was arrested by
Whynott performing most
remarkably. He was shouting
and throwing his arms about in
a deplorable manner.
“So you want to kill me
immediately! Make me work
when I’m unfit! Dead men tell
no tales, heh? BuVyou’ll make
a mistake there; I’ll tell more
tales when I’m dead than when
I’m alive.”
He gave a near-hysterical
laugh which could have been
heard through the shop, right
out into the street.
“Keep quiet,” Bownell com-
manded him ; “the whole neigh-
borhood will be hearing what
you’re saying.”
Whynott reduced his noise a
little, but he increased his
menace. “You leave your man
here until I get completely well,”
he demanded.
Bowneil regarded him with
extrejne distaste. He knew that
he would be degrading himself
by submitting to this extortion,
yet he could visualise the scene
Whynott would put on if he
resisted.
“All right, another week.”
He said it curtly, as bestowing
an unearned favor.
“We’ll see how I feel then,”
Whynott replied coolly. “I’ll
let you know if I can spare
him.”
Bowneil walked out of the
house with a brief nod to Mrs.
Whynott. He avoided speaking
to his employee in the shop,
knowing that he had probably
heard a good deal of the quarrel.
People in the street looked up
surprised at the unusually fierce
manner in which he accelerated
his car away from the place.
■pROM the residence Whynott
watched Bownell’s departure
with a tense hatred that seemed
to horrify his wife.
“Run my shop for me, would,
he?” Whynott said, turning on
his wife so suddenly that she
started. “Show me how I should
provide for my wife and family,
would he? A really nice, rich,
patronising gentleman, isn’t he?
But you haven’t seen the way he
pretends that I’m trying to
dodge my turn to shout drinks
when we’re on our bowling-
trips, have you? You. don’t
know him in his jolly holiday
mood, when he never lets me
forget that I haven’t nearly as
much money as he has. Insist-
ing on the whole party staying
at the most expensive hotel, and
then offering to pay my share so
that all the others can hear
him! ”
His wife waited until she was
sure she wouldn’t be interrupting
him, then she said modestly,
“I’m sure he doesn’t mean any
harm. Everybody thinks so
much of him.”
“But / don’t,” Whynott
shouted. “He’s just a big con-
ceited slob who thinks he can
run the town because he’s got
more money than anyone else.
But I’ll show him. I’ve got him
nicely sewn-up. I can do what
I like with him.”
His wife watched him with
the greatest uneasiness, her big,
gentle eyes troubled, and her
soft, round face drawn into lines
of distress.
“It’s not right that you should
try to take advantage of him
like that, when he’s trying to
help us.”
“Not us. You!” Whynott’s
face retrieved its malice. “He
was so eager to help you, with-
out helping me, that he over-
reached himself.”
His wife put a finger to her
mouth; she was so defeated by
her husband that a childish
gesture seemed quite appropri-
ate. Then Whynott began to
laugh again.
“The best of it is that he’s
going to be so disappointed
when I don’t die.”
“But how do you know you
won’t die? Lots of men
who’ve had a collapse soon have
another one, and that’s the end
of them.”
“Don’t delude yourself with
any false hopes,” Whynott
sneered, “my heart is O.K. The
doctor said so, didn’t he? And
even if he was fooled by
Bowneil, I know I’ve had faint-
ing-fits all my life ; used to have
them often when I was a kid.
My mother was scared, but the
doctor told her it was nothing.
That’s all I had at the bowling-
carnival. But that reminds me,
I’m due at the club tonight, so
hurry up with jny dinner.”
Whynott arrived at the
TT club he met a disappoint-
ment. The names of the team
to play in one of the most
important matches of the year
were up on the board and his
was not among them.
Whynott felt that it was the
worst kind of personal insult,
because he’d been playing par-
ticularly well. He went storm-
ing after the selectors, but they
explained it as arising from a
sympathetic concern for his
health.
“On whose authority?”
Whynott demanded.
But here he was put off with
polite evasions which seemed to
cover an iron determination.
The authority, in fact, was
entirely unofficial, being that of
Bowneil. In a hasty conference
with Penn after Whynott’s recal-
citrant behavior, they had
"Put another fiver on me, Joe!"
arrived at several important
decisions, and each of them
involved the exclusion of Why-
nott from competition games.
In the first place it would put
the brand of invalidism on
Whynott and save Bownell’s
face over the shop-assistant
question; in the second place it
was a punishment for Whynott’s
incredibly bad behavior, and a
very effective punishment, too ;
finally, it was a precaution
against the risk of Whynott’s
sudden death, since it was
apparent to them that he was
subjected to his greatest strains
when playing high-tension
competition-bowls.
For Bownell to bring about
Whynott’s exclusion from the
teams was quite a simple matter
because of his unquestionable
status in the town. Just a word
in the selectors’ ears ; not even
an explanation required. But
the baffling character of the
pressure used against Whynott
only increased his rage.
“I can’t take this lying down,”
he declared. He charged about
the clubhouse, pouring out his
story. He stirred fellow-
members into a state of righteous
indignation, which sent them
seeking out the selectors, deter-
mined to put things right; but
they all returned deflated, with
serious faces.
“Better take things easy,
Fred,” they said, all sympathy
and indignation vanished.
As the weeks went by Fred
was never selected for a match,
however well he felt and how-
ever dazzlingly he played. It
was impossible for him to take
it easy.
He tried hard to get a special
meeting called so that he could
move a motion of no-confidence
in the selection-committee, but
the members slipped through his
fingers before he could get their
signatures. At the six-monthly
meeting, he had just begun his
furious speech when someone
moved that the motion be now
put; and immediately everyone
agreed to that. Fred’s no-
confidence motion had only one
supporter and that was rather
an unsavory friend of his who
was always against the majority,
anyhow. Yet he was not so
utterly defeated that he couldn’t
seek out Bownell after the
meeting, full of vindictive
aggressiveness.
“You’re behind this, I know,”
he said ; “but I’ll teach you to
treat me like dirt. I won’t pay
the insurance-premium when it
comes due next week.”
It made Bowneil ill. While
he had never become reconciled
to having to maintain an assist-
ant in Whynott’s shop, he’d con-
tinually hoped that at least
Whynott would take advantage
of the opportunity to extend his
business and improve his
financial situation to such an
extent that he could, without
difficulty, pay his own premiums.
“And then he gives me this
blow,” he said later to Aitchi-
son. “It’s really below the belt.
I’m finished with him. That’s
definite. I’m not paying any
more premiums.”
Aitchison smiled the wearied,
patient smile of a man whose
vocation lies in seeing that other
people do the right thing.
“He won’t pay it. I’ve been
on to it with him and he’s only
got enough credit at the bank to
keep his shop and family going.
Not that he couldn’t do some-
thing towards it if he tried, but
he won’t attempt to save any-
thing. So you see it’s not him
you’d be hitting, but her.”
He gave Bownell a moment to
visualise himself giving the
wonderful woman a hit.
In the end the two plutocrats
put their heads together in
Penn’s office. Painfully
oppressed by the appalling mis-
take they had made in assessing
Whynott’s character, and
silently mindful of the hold he
could have over them, they
agreed to pay the next six-
months’ premium.
“Definitely the last,” they
reported to Aitchison.
'T'HE next bowling - season
A opened with Fred Whynott
still omitted from the teams. By
this time his health appeared
perfect and it seemed inconceiv-
able that a bowling-match could
harm him. It seemed equally
unlikely that the work in his
shop would do him any harm,
either; yet to the puzzlement of
the inhabitants of Jindulla,
Bownell’s man remained there.
Bownell never went near it him-
self. He rarely saw Mrs.
Whynott, either, and then only
publicly in the streets; so he
had no means of knowing
whether she felt any gratitude,
or if she was moved by any
sympathy for him.
Then, not long before Christ-
mas, came the big social event
of Jindulla, Ladies Night at the
bowling-club; the one night of
the year when wives were
allowed to enter the clubhouse.
Dancing, drinks, and a deter-
mined attempt by members not
to let the presence of women
spoil the evening for them.
Things were apt to be rather
crowded and confused towards
midnight and it was under these
circumstances that Bownell
found Mrs. Whynott sitting
lonely and disconsolate, and
asked her to dance with him.
It was the first time they had
had a chance to talk privately
since the ugly scene with Fred
o Continued on page 30)
ABSENCE
This afternoon by the fuchsia tree
the garden sang with heat and shade;
the sails of yachts moved idly down
the lapsing green unsheltered river
and in the park the children played;
shells, a necklace, carelessness.
The tree above me like your dress
sang of the warmth its silence made.
Tonight at home: the moth-wings of the air.
We live our lives in solitary rooms.
The gardens slope towards the sea
the ferry plies and frail gardens
bend the water, falls the park.
I touch your absence everywhere . . .
My words go feeling for you in the dark.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


As told to Roland Robinson
“1 was camped at Haast’s
Bluff for some weeks with
Albert Namatjira,” says Mr.
Robinson. “He took me
down to the ‘ring-place’ of
the old men and l was shown
there the Tjurunga, the body
and spirit of Albert’s father.
Albert presented me with a
painting, done on the spot, of
the sacred objects figuring in
the legend. ‘Albert’ is his
mission-name and ‘Namatjira’
means ‘young man who has
passed the first initiation and
is segregated in the butfh
until the second ritual’
‘Torrnunga’ is his true tribal-
name : ‘Flying-ant’
THE MYTH OF IRRINGA
THE DEVIL - DOG. RE-
LATED BY TORRNUNGA
(ALBERT NAMATJIRA)
OF THE ARRANDA
TRIBE.
UNGORTARENGA is the
name of the place. Bird-
well, where there is a
well for cattle, is the
white-man’s name.
An old man there has a shield
and a boomerang. All the
winds that blow, blow back to
this one place where that old
man stays. The old man lies
down and the winds from all
directions come and cover him
up with dust and sand.
When a bird calls out from a
tree that old man sits up out of
the dust and sand and looks out
everywhere. He thinks, he
looks round, then lies down
again. The winds blow from
all directions and cover him up
again with dust and sand.
The wind blew from the south.
First the nose of the old man
came up out of the dust, then
his head and shoulders. He rose
on his hands and knees with the
dust and the sand sliding off
him. On his hands and knees
he stretched forward; smelling
the wind and looking out in its
direction. As the old man
smelled the wind and stretched
forwards he changed into the big
devil-dog Irrinja Ngoolya.
The dog got up out of the
dust. He went steadily forward,
following the wind straight all
the way. He came up to the
waterhole Rarryarunga. Half-
way he went from that water-
hole and saw the tracks of two
women. These two women were
looking out for the frogs Djarra.
They were following a creek and
picking up all the frogs from
side to side of the creek.
Irrinja the dog sneaked up,
low down, like a cat, out of
sight, smelling those tracks. The
two women turned off into a
little gully. They were on a
week’s walkabout. They
followed the little gully up and
went over the range Eeknatartna.
Irrinja followed them all the
time.
The two women followed up
another creek. The first sister
did not like picking up the frogs.
She was feeling that something
was wrong. They left the creek
and went through a gap in
Tjurreetja the Macdonnell
Range. The two sisters made a
fire and cooked the frogs. But
Irrinja, who was following, went
up another creek. Then the wind
came again and the dog turned
back and found their tracks.
The women had made camp
beside a big gumtree. Irrinja
sneaked up. “Ah,” he said,
“smoke from fire.”
The first sister said, “Oh, I
feel there is something wrong.
You must get up, sister, and
look.”
The little sister got up and
looked around but could not see
anything. Irrinja was sneaking
up, low down through the grass.
The little sister came back and
sat down.
“Nobody there,” she said.
Irrinja made one bound out
of the grass and got hold of the
first sister. The little sister ran
and climbed up into the big
gumtree. Irrinja swallowed the
first sister straight away. Irrinja
leaped up at the tree. He caught
hold of the little sister and pulled
her down out of the boughs and
swallowed her.
Irrinja went on down the
creek. He went through the
grass, keeping low to the
ground. Irrinja heard the
sound of the bull-roarer, the
Oonama-toona. A big mob of
blacks were making the cor-
roboree Urrumbulla. They were
teaching the young men the rules
of the tribe in the place Kaimba
rrumbulla. Irrinja was
frightened. He did not let any-
one see him. A big bloodwood-
tree was standing near that
place. The dog came up to the
tree and got half into v the
ground. The sun went down
and the dog stayed there all
night.
That mob of blacks was
making a big noise. They were
painting themselves, singing,,
dancing and whirling the
Oonama-toona all night until
daylight. The old men hunted
all the young men away, they
frightened them a little bit. The
old men painted themselves
flash, then called all the young
men back.
“Come back,” they called,
“and see this corroboree.”
Afterwards everyone wanted
to sleep. In that place there
were lines of men sleeping, one
line, another line, another line
and another line. There was no
noise. Everything was quiet.
The big dog Irrinja had the
two women inside him. His
nose came up out of the sand
first, smelling. Then his two
eyes, looking out. Then his two
ears, pricked forward, listening.
Irrinja got up altogether with the
sand slipping from him. Irrinja
stretched himself, he looked out.
Then he went up to the camp,
close to the creek, where the
men were sleeping.
Irrinja saw the lines and lines
of men lying asleep. At the
eastern end of the camp the
painted totem-pole Ntanji, with
its tuft of feathers, was standing
up. Irrinja began at the first
man, he swallowed him, one by
one he swallowed all that line
of men. One by one he
swallowed all the lines of sleep-
ing men. None were left.
Irrinja went up and lay down
at the bottom of the totem-pole
Ntanji. He was full of men.
He just lay down there looking
towards the east.
When the old men were
whirling the Oonama-toona, the
hair-string on which they
whirled it broke. That Oonama-
toona flew away. It fell down
near Rurrjibma, Mount Zander.
That Oonama-toona turned into
a man.
Near Mount Zander that
young man stood up in the
night. He listened. He could
hear no noise. He said, “There
should be noise coming from
that corroboree.” He thought,
“There is something wrong. I
must go and see.”
This young man began to
travel back. He camped. He
made a windbreak to sleep.
From under the windbreak he
drew out a big Tjurunga. He
sneaked up with the Tjurunga.
He wanted to see what had
happened. He stood half-up
out of the grass, straining
forward to look. He saw the
big Ntanji standing up in that
corroboree-place and something
lying near it. “Oh,” the young
man thought, “that devil-dog has
eaten-up everyone.”
The young man sneaked up
towards the Ntanji but he saw
the red eyes of the dog. The
young man pulled back, he was
frightened. He came up another
way, behind the. big Ntanji.
Again he saw the red eyes of
the dog. Three times he tried
to sneak up and each time he
pulled back when he saw the
eyes of the dog.
The young man took a good
hold of his Tjurunga. He
sneaked up to the dog. As the
big dog got up, the young man
threw the Tjurunga. The
took the dog in the
mouth, cutting him back to his
ears. When Irrinja was cut like
that, all those men he had
swallowed came out of his
mouth.
Irrinja went down into the
ground at that place of the
Tjurunga called Kaimba rrum-
bulla. Irrinja went back to that
place where he came from. In
the place Ungortarenga he
changed back into that old man
again.
That old man lies down in
the dust. The winds come down
from all directions and cover
him. When a bird calls out, he
rises from the dust, his ears
pricked forward, listening. He
looks out, he smells the wind.
He lies down again and the
winds blow from all directions
and cover him with dust and
sand.
THE WATER-LUBRA AND
THE LOTUS - BIRD. RE-
LATED BY KIANOO
TJEEMAIREE OF THE
MURINBATA TRIBE.
A GIRL called Wirreitman
came out of the water of
the river Kimmul. She put on
a man’s hairbelt and she bound-
up her long hair. She took a
spear and a womerah and she
went out hunting for wallaby.
The girl went hunting through
the bush and she could use the
spear. She speared Ngalmungo,
a hill-kangaroo. She made two
firesticks and made fire, and she
cooked the kangaroo in a
ground-oven.
A pian called Nogamin had
been out hunting. He was
carrying a wallaby up on his
shoulders. He looked out and
saw smoke rising beyond the
trees. He started to walk up to
the camp of the girl. —^
Wirreitman the girl looked out
from her camp and saw him
coming. The spear and the
womerah she put to one side.
Then she lay face down in the
dust with her arms folded in
front of her, waiting for the man
to come up.
The man Nogamin came up
carrying the wallaby. “Ai!
What is the matter?” he asked.
“Ah, I am no good,” said the
girl. “My stomach is no good.”
“What is the matter that you
do not get up?” said Nogamin.
“You want to get up and open-
up that kangaroo.”
“You, old man,” said the
girl, “you can take that
kangaroo out for me. You can
leave me the arms and legs.”
“Well,” said Nogamin, “you
want to get up.”
“No,” said the girl, “I am
sick in my stomach. I will get
up bye-and-bye. You take that
kangaroo and leave me the
arms and legs.”
Nogamin took the kangaroo
out of the ground-oven. He cut
and broke away the arms and
legs. He picked up the body of
the kangaroo and left the camp.
“Battai ya,” he called to the
girL . *u
When Nogamin was gone the
girl got up quickly. She picked
up the parts of the kangaroo,
the spear and the womerah and
ran away.
As the man Nogamin walked
along he thought about Wirreit-
man lying down in the camp.
He thought of the way she was
lying down and the way she hid
her eyes when she spoke. “It
might be that one is a girl,”
thought Nogamin. Nogamin
stopped in his tracks. “It
might be,” he thought. “I must
go back and find out.”
He put down the wallaby and
the kangaroo and went back.
The camp was empty. Nogamin
came up and looked at the place
where Wirreitman had lain. In
the dust he saw the imprint of
her body. He saw the imprints
of her thighs and folded arms
and there, deep in the dust, were
tlie two hollows her breasts had
made. »
Nogamin found the girl’s
tracks going out of the camp.
He followed them, running,
stopping to pick them up again,
then running on. He called out
to her, he stopped to find her
tracks, then ran on again.
The girl had climbed up into
a bottle-tree. Nogamin came up
running. He looked and saw
the girl sitting in the thrust-out
branches of the bottle-tree. It
was a big tree. He did not see
how he could climb up its
smooth, round, bottle-shaped
trunk. Nogamin breathed
hard. Then he called softly to
the girl.
“Oh, come down to me,
Balnguri. You and I are good
friends.”
The girl in the bottle-tree
laughed down at Nogamin.
“Ah, no,” she said. "This is
my bottle-tree. I like sitting up
here . . . But you,” she mocked
at him, “you come up to me.”
Nogamin tried to climb the
tree. As he did so the girl in
the branches sang the tree and
the bottle-tree began to get
bigger and bigger and grow up
more and more. And the girl
mocked Nogamin as he tried to
climb. She showed herself to
him to make him mad. She sat
this way in the branches and that
way in the branches and she
leaned out and down to him,
stretching her arms.
Nogamin could not climb the
tree. He could find no hold on
the big, rounded trunk. He sat
down under the tree and cried
for the girl.
He cried, “Oh, you sit over
there.” He looked up at her.
He cried to her, “Oh, come on,
come on! You’ve got to come
down to me!”
Nogamin was out of his mind
for that girl.
It was a little bit dark.
Nogamin slept. He woke up
and cried and called to that girl
sitting in the branches of the
tree. He slept and woke at the
foot of the tree. And then at
last, when Nogamin was asleep,
the girl slipped down out of the
tree and ran away.
Laughing, the girl ran back to
the river Kimmul. Xhere, lying
out in the sun, on the sand near
the young paperbark-trees with
the river glittering past them,
were all her sisters, the Murin-
bungo, the water-lubras.
Nogamin woke up. It was
little-bit daylight. He looked up
and saw the arms of the bottle-
tree bare against the stars. As
soon as he could see Nogamin
began to follow the girl’s tracks.
All those girls lying along the
river heard Nogamin coming.
Weirk the white-cockatoo rose
screaming out of the high paper-
bark-trees. “Ah,” the girls
cried, “it might be that it is that
man now who is frightening
Weirk.”
Nogamin came running. He
saw all those girls lying out in
the sun on the river sand. When
the girls saw him coming they
got up and dived in the water
from all along ther river-bank.
Nogamin was running down the
bank to dive in after them when
he >aw their father, the Rain-
bow' Snake Kunmanngur, rear
up out of the water.
In deep mud near the river-
bank Nogamin ame to a stop.
He cried out in a strange voice,
“Keir, keir, ngeir!” He
changed into the Lotus-bird who
runs over the broad floating
leaves of the lilies crying out
and looking for its food.
And the place Nogamin tried
to jump in the water is called
Kiyett, on the Fitzmaurice River
A stone is the dreaming of that
man Nogamin whose spirit is
now a bird. ,
The womerah belonging to
Wirreitman, is the cypress-pine
growing there, called Lakomin ;
the womerah of Nogamin is the
Leichhardt-pine, Pitji. The
spear belonging to the girl is
Woolgooboo and the spear of
Nogamin is Oonjirri the jungle-
tree.
THE MYTH AND THE
DREAMING OF THE
BROLGA-MEN, THE
FROG - MEN AND THE
STONE COOLAMON. RE-
LATED BY KIANOO
TJEEMAIREE OF THE
MURINBATA TRIBE.
AT the billabong Bulbunga
a blackfellow named
Karroo-karroo looked out for
sugar-bag. He had a stone axe.
All the time he locked about for
sugar-bag.
He cut sugar-bag out of a
tree, sat down and ate it, then
went back to the billabong and
dived in. The sugar-bag made
him thirsty. He drank up that
water.
Karroo-karroo began to swell
up. He was full of water and
sugar-bag. He went out, cut
more sugar-bag and came back
to the billabong. The billabong
was empty. He had drunk all
the water.
“Oh, it is better that I leave
this billabong,” said Karroo-
karroo.
He travelled. He looked out
for water. He found the big
billabong Keegalba. He looked
about for more sugar-bag, cut it
out of the trees and sat down
and ate it. He began to run
towards the billabong Keegalba.
He ran fast. He threw away his
stone-axe. He dived in the
water.
“00-00-ooh! Oh, that sugar-
bag made me half-dead! Oh,
that sugar-bag made me feel
properly old-fellow! ”
He drank the water in that
billabong until it began to go
down. Karroo-karroo went and
looked out for more sugar-bag.
All about he went cutting
sugar-bag.
He began to run back to the
water. He ran fast, his mouth
open, his arms waving. He
threw his stone-axe away. He
dived in.
“Oo! Oo! That sugar-bag
made me close-up die! Too
much sugar-bag. I can’t finish
it up. 00-00-ma!”
Karroo-karroo drank and
drank the water in the billabong.
In the morning only a little pool
was left. Karroo-karroo tried
to drink. He spat it out. It
was mud.
He travelled on and came to
the billabong Tiwarree with lilies
(i Continued on next page)
CONFUSION
Eyes that have seen
And eyes that have not seen
'Confuse them and their words.
They cannot know they love
Though their fingers meet,
They cannot know
That summer in their veins
Has taken this blinding path
Between hand and hand.
Eyes that have seen
And eyes that have not seen
Live in another country
And cannot understand
Why summer should burn
Between their glances.
N.Z.
P. M. JACOBSON.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICES
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU4S87 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
growing in it and paperbark-
trees round it. On either side
of the billabong was a long
range of mountains. When
Karroo-karroo saw this billa-
bong he hit himself on the chest.
“Hah, I have good water here! ”
He began to look about for
sugar-bag. He cut sugar-bag all
about. He sat down and ate
and ate. From there he began
to run. He ran hard. He dived
into the water.
“Ooi-00-00-oo! Oh, that
sugar-bag, I can’t finish it.”
Again and again Karroo-
karro’o went out after sugar-
bag. Again and again he ran
back and dived in that billa-
bong. At last he drank mud.
He spat it out.
Now Karroo-karroo came up
to the billabong Kullair-
kullairk-panyon. He came up
and found a big mob of brolga-
men camped there. The brolga-
men wanted to give him some
sugar-bag.
“No,” said Karroo-karroo, “I
want to find sugar-bag myself.”
Karroo-karroo looked all
about, cut sugar-bag all about.
Turrcat the frog-men and Jabbal
the little frog-men were camped
further off from the billabong.
The frog-men saw Karroo-
karroo running. “He’s mad.”
“He’s mad, all right,” they said
to one another.
Karroo-karroo ran out on to
a log. He dived into the water.
“Oi-00-oo! Prr-prr-brr! Good
job I found this water. Oh, this
water makes my head feel
good.” Karroo-karroo began to
drink up all that water.
Kullair-kullairk, a brolga-
man, came up. “Hey, old man,”
he called to Karroo-karroo. “I
want to give you a coolamon of
sugar-bag.”
“No,” Karroo-karroo said. “I
want to find it myself.”
The brolga-man looked at the
water in the billabong. It was
dirty and Karroo-karroo had
almost drunk it all. “Look, old
man,” said the brolga-
blackfellow, “you want to go
and look for sugar-bag that
way. Plenty there.”
Karroo-karroo took his stone-
axe and went to look. The
brolga-man brought up a big
coolamon. He took all the
water out of the billabong. He
left it dry. Now Karroo-
karroo came running from a
long way off. He ran, he dived
into that deep, dry waterhole.
He landed on his head. He
crushed his head back into his
body. He broke his arms and
he broke his back and began to
call out “Yakarai! Yakarai!”
All the frog-blackfellows came
up. They were sorry for that
old man. They cried for him.
All the frog-men began to talk.
“Hey, what is the matter with
Kullair-kullairk? He has taken
away all the water.” The frog-
men hardened their spears in the
fire.
Kullair-kullairk had turned
into a brolga. He flew up on to
the mountain. He sat down
there with the coolamon of water
and looked down on all the
frogs.
Now one frog-man spoke to
another. “Try with your spear,
try and spear that coolamon of
water.”
The frog-man hooked up his
spear in his womerah and threw.
“Ah, only half-way. Here,
you try.”
Another frog-man threw his
spear. Still the spear could go
only half-way up the mountain.
Another man tried with a stone-
spear. Again the spear went
only half-way. It fell back
broken.
The frog-man Jarbal was
lying on the ground with his
womerah in his hand. He was
half-dead with thirst. “Come
on, Jarbal,” the first frog-man
called, “we must spear this
water. We have tried. We can-
not spear it. You try, Jarbal.”
Jarbal got up. He hooked up
his spear. He threw and the
spear went far up the mountain
but did not reach the coolamon.
Kullair-kullairk stood there
and looked down on the frog-
men. Now Jarbal shortened his
spear, he cut a piece off the
end of the shaft. He fitted it to
his womerah. “Ah, this is a
good spear now!”
Jarbal threw the spear and the
spear went up and pierced the
coolamon. Kullair - kullairk
danced on the top of the moun-
tain, then flew away.
Now the water ran out of the
coolamon, down the mountain-
side and into the billabong. The
frog-men began to chant
“Quork, quork, quork, quork.”
They clapped, their hands. They
danced. There at the billabong
Kullair - kullairk - panyon they
became frogs. And there on the
mountain-top is the broken
stone coolamon, the dreaming
of Kullair-kullairk-panyon,
Quz fire
by
Elizabeth
Lane
WE’D never had a fire
until the tiTne we lost
Annabelle, our pig.
We don’t know even
now if Annabelle was drowned
or cut her throat; but, any-
way, the fire was indirectly
responsible for her death. She
was a prize pig, too. Father had
just won a second with her at
the show, and was very sure
next year she would get a first.
However, the prestige he lost
with the pig was more than
made up for by the fire. Mest of
the neighbors at some time or
other had had a fire, by which
they ever after could date the
main happenings of their lives
as being the year of; so many
years before, or so many years
after, “our fire”; and up till
then Father had felt the odd-
man-out.
But after that whenever he
met a neighbor and the day was
hot and there was a north wind
blowing, and the neighbor
chanced to remark, “Just such
another day as when you had
your fire, Alex,” then Father
would expand and at last really*
feel one of them —one of the
band of the long-suffering,
never-complaining (well, hardly
ever) men of the soil.
Our fire was on a New Year’s
Day and Mother and several of
my elder brothers and sisters
had gone off for the day, leaving
myself, sister Ann and the two
younger brothers home with
Father.
The car had hardly dis-
appeared from sight before Ann
and I had changed into my
sisters’ latest evening-frocks,
stockings and high-heeled shoes,
After applying a very liberal
coating of powder over our un-
washed faces, two very red
cheeks apiece, and a thick
smudge of lipstick, Ann, now
‘‘Mrs. Hayes,” departed with her
“baby” in the pram to take up
residence in the wagon, while
I, “Mrs. Allan,” the mother of
a big celluloid doll, began my
married state in the back of the
old stripper propped-up in the
other end of the machinery-shed.
No sooner had we begun our
telephone - conversation (the
telephone being a reel of white
cotton stretched from one end
of the shed to the other and
attached to sawn-off bottle-
necks) about our babies’ various
illnesses, than “Mrs. Hayes”
inquired of “Mrs. Allan” could
she, too, see smoke and flames
rising from behind the stable.
“Mrs. Allan” could; so,
loving anything out of the
ordinary, “Mrs. Hayes” and
“Mrs. Allan” in a split-second
shed their motherhood, together
with their high-heeled shoes, and
raced to the scene of the
excitement.
pRANK, my younger brother,
x was looking aghast at the
now-fiercely-burning haystack,
while Peter, a little older, and
lots more cunning, was darting
in, in rapid runs, to pick up
Father’s tobacco, matches and
papers. These recovered, he felt
at ease, for, as far as he was con-
cerned at least, the cause of the
fire would for ever remain a
mystery.
Ann and I flung off our
evening - frocks; then ran
screaming to the house for
Father.
Over his shoulder he shouted,
“Ring the neighbors and the
fire-brigade.”
We got back to find the fire
had spread to the roof of the
straw-stable. Father, knowing
that carting buckets of water
would be useless, was madly
dashing in and out of the stable
carrying out bits and pieces (he
knew not what) of harness.
, What a blaze! The flames
roared and devoured the straw,
and tinder-dry boughs and
sparrow - nests like some
ravenous monster. Above the
noise, a horse was squealing—
Micky the buggy-horse had been
forgotten: locked away in the
far end of the stable.
Father raced to the woodheap
for the axe, and with a few
frenzied blows shattered the
burning sliprails; and Micky
plunged to freedom, seconds
before the side of the shed
collapsed.
Ann and I dashed off and
unchained the dogs in the
machinery-shed, let the pig out,
untied the calf from the fence,
let the turkeys out and every
setting-hen about the place. By
the time the neighbors arrived
everything on the farm was
abusing its freedom.
The pig came grunting
towards the haystack always
its first dart when it got out —
and on seeing the fire made a
beeline for the dam, and
whether it drowned or cut its
“As your employer, I demand to be shown a little
more respect !”
throat (as I’ve heard tell), I don’t
know. I only know we had a
very dead pig in the dam, a very
excited calf galloping madly
around the'' house-paddock ; and
the dogs, having nothing better
to do, were trying to round up
the mob of strutting, gobbling,
indignant turkeys.
One small item Ann and I
had overlooked was that the
wind was blowing the other way
and all these things would have
been safe, anyway. -
'T'HE firebell had rung in the
A middle of a cricket-match
and the firecart, turning in the
gate, looked like a bleeding
finger swaddled in cotton-wool.
The firemen and visiting
cricket-team were all immacu-
lately turned-out in their
cricketing-creams to fight a fire
of burning hay. What a mess
they were in within a matter of
minutes: burnt hay, muddy
dam-water, and dirty, wet hoses!
Many a wife and mother that
night would have cause to regret
“our fire.”
Our neighbor, Mrs. Schultz,
a big brawny woman—biggest
hands and feet I’ve seen on a
woman and so strong she could
lift a bag of flour —took over,
in Mother’s absence, and set
about emptying the house of its
belongings.
The captain of the brigade had
his men concentrated, trying to
save the house, but with a roar-
ing nor’-wester blowing from
the stable, their task was hope-
less, and although they drained
both tanks (our most precious
commodity during the summer
months was our rainwater) try-
ing to keep the house wet, it» was
burnt to the ground in less than
half-an-hour.
Furniture, bedding and cloth-
ing were carted away and
deposited in heaps everywhere
around the house-paddock. I
can still see the huge kitchen-
dresser looking disdainfully
down on the ugly scene from the
highest point'of the dam-bank.
Ann rescued Grandma’s false-
teeth (Grandma long since dead),
the baby’s spare bottle and teat
and half-a-dozen gramophone-
records, while I, personally,
saved the family photos, Anna-
belle’s second-prize card, a pink
candlestick with long crystal
droppers, and my sister’s love-
letters from under the lino, on
“the girls’ bedroom”-floor.
Mother and the rest of the
family arrived home to find
her household - belongings
scattered around over a half-
mile radius, her house burnt
down, the stable burnt, the hay-
stacks still burning, the pig
dead, the animals gone mad,
the tanks drained of every drop
of rainwater, the dam dry,
neighbors, vehicles, firemen and
confusion everywhere, her two
youngest daughters inadequately
clad but with their faces painted
fit for a war-dance and her two
youngest sons gloriously happy
playing firemen with an old
piece of hose and Wearing on
their heads her two very, very
best front-bedroom utensils.
Father, despite his losses, was
bearing-up bravely; almost, one
would think, appeared to be
enjoying his neighbors’
sympathy.
A one-chain road and a high
railway-line stopped the fire
from spreading further; so by
dusk the firemen, now quite un-
recognisable .in their filthy,
bedraggled creams, set off for
home and a bath, leaving us and
our closest neighbors to safe-
guard the smouldering ruins.
YI/E children, there being lots
TY of us, were split up among
the neighbors, and the first
buggy-load was preparing to
move off when loud wallings
from Peter sent Mother hurry-
ing to the buggy. She thought
Peter was upset at leaving her,
but he’d caught sight of what he
thought was Brindle, our grey-
hound-dog, now a smouldering
heap near the tree used for
sheepkilling. On being shown
it was just an old sheepskin he
went off quite happy, in fact,
quite pleased with his day.
Never before had we been in
the limelight.
Mrs. Schultz got to the buggy,
then turned back and called to
Mother; after a few minutes’
talk Mother rushed up to Father
saying “Oh, Alex! I’ll bet you
never thought of saving them.”
“Saving what? Oh, my
God, what’s burnt now?”
“My sausages” (choking
sobs), “my smoked sausages”
(for the benefit of the sym-
pathisers). “Mrs. Schultz and I
did a whole pig into dozens of
differept sorts of smoked
sausages and I had Alex build
them into the haystack to
mature; and they were my first
attempt, too.”
Tears now trickled down
Mother’s cheeks. /
“Don’t tell me, woman, you’re
crying about smoked sausages!”
Father yelled. “Why, we’ve lost
the house, we’ve lost the stables,
we’ve lost the stacks, and my
Annabelle” (near to tears) “is
lying dead in the dam! ”
Here, Mother gave way to a
violent fit of weeping, at which
Mrs. Schultz joined-in; and
later, after consoling each other
that at least the children were
all alive and well, the two drove
off to Schultzes to prepare tea
for the men who were taking it
in turns to keep watch over-
night.
It was lovely going to school
and meeting your brothers and
sisters when you didn’t live with
them. Every day we swapped
yarns of what we had for
breakfast and tea, and what
games we played, and what we
found to giggle about in bed in
the dark each night.
Unfortunately the neighbors
joined in helping the builder
put-up our new home, and it
wasn’t long before we were all
reassembled under the one roof
—undoubtedly a new roof, but
that didn’t prove to be any great
novelty for long.
When anticipating our new
home we visualised everything
being new and different, but
after a week back with the same
furnishings and the same
furniture in the same places, we
found our sudden flooding of
the limelight almost an unreality.
That was, until we thought of
Annabelle, but Father missed her
the most. Years later he was
still bemoaning her loss and for
many shows to come could be
heard comparing those short-
legged, stumpy, first-prize-
winners as not being a patch on
his Annabelle.


Annals of
Brisbane Water
By "EL VERDUGO"
ALMOST every Australian
community has its
annalist; the man who
puts together the memories
of older men, or the records of
an older time, to produce a
more-or-less plain, unvarnished
story.
These annalists may vary in
type and in method, and, as
among fishes, there are big ones
and little ones.
Some there are who put down
their memories in local-news-
paper columns and paste them
up in scrapbooks which get into
the Mitchell Library and are
much consulted by those in
search of local-color. Some essay
a' wider field, and themselves
explore the local-newspapers of
the past for their material. Some
are content to sit on a log or a
jetty assembling their stories
from old men with prodigious,
and often thoroughly inaccurate,
memories.
There are a few giants, not so
frequent now as in a more
leisured age, men like the late
J. M. Forde, whose Sunday-
newspaper column a generation
ago turned itself into a sort of
encyclopaedia of remembered
things about early Australia,
often informed with considerable
background-knowledge by the
collector of them. And there
were men like J. P. McGuanne
and others who fixed the patterns
of legend which was only some-
times history.
It is from the earlier genera-
tions of annalists that most of
the myths that plague historians
arise—the big trees on which
the first flag hung on Sydney
Cove ; the gallows which stood
on the place where gallows never
were —in fact, a great deal which
answers the ironic definition of
history as the story of something
that didn’t happen by a man who
wasn’t there.
It is from those early annalists
that were derived such tales as
that —taken seriously for many
a year by Australian historians
of some pretensions—of an old
gentleman who remembered that
when he was seven years old
and his father was in the 73rd
Regiment stationed at Windsor
in 1817 he saw Governor Mac-
quarie step out of his carriage in
his scarlet coat, and carried away
a vivid impression of him that
he was “five-feet ten -and-a-half
inches” high and limped from his
wound.
The 73rd Regiment left the
Colony three years before 1817 ;
Governor Macquarie, on all the
evidence, was not sft. 10|in.
high; and he couldn’t have
limped from his wound because
he didn’t have a wound. Never-
theless, the old gentleman’s story
appears in the text of many a
solemn historical paper over the
past few decades.
Of course, this is not alto-
gether typical of the work of
the annalists. Even the best of
them may not test their facts —
indeed they cannot, any more
than Homer could*—but they are
antiquarian-minded, and they
work for the love of the game
and from an innate patriotism
and love of country and tradi-
tion. And when they are really
built for the job they achieve
astonishing feats, and leave
behind mountains of records of
events and descriptions of times
and places, and particularly
people, of which you feel that, if
some of them aren’t true, they all
should be.
Among the present generation
of this better type of annalist
is Mr. Charles Swancott, of
Brisbane Water (N.S.W.), the
president and honorary research-
secretary of the Brisbane Water
Historical Society.
Mr. Swancott began to visit
the Woy Woy-Ettalong region of
lakes and beaches in 1910. He
liked the peace, the grassed
streets, the charm of the beaches
and waterways. So he, who had
intended to be an artist, but who
found prospects anything but
encouraging after World War I,
decided to settle down with his
young family on a waterfront
allotment on the charming
Booker Bay.
He opened a timber- and build-
ing-supply business, and began
Rock Davis, 6ft. 6in. boat-
builder; among the picturesque
in the annalist’s gallery.
to use some of his artistic skill
in designing homes. The search
for timber in an expanding busi-
ness soon took him to every
corner of the extensive Brisbane
Water district, “from the top of
Mt. Wattagan out beyond
Martinsville to the deepest
Mooney gully.”
On these wanderings, on
wharves, by campfires, in boats,
stores and pubs, at crib-time
round the mills, and in the shade
by the roadside, he met hundreds
of settlers, axemen, timbergetters,
fishermen, bullockies. From
these—many of them descendants
of original pioneers—he gathered
stories “of almost legendary
events.”
To these he gradually added
background from the records of
local • councils, churches, the
Mitchell Library, the Registrar-
General’s and other Government
departments, and from news-
paper-files.
Eventually, with some humor,
with no waste words, with an
eye for the picturesque and an
ear for dialogue, he set out to
produce “a true picture of the
settlement and development of
the district,” scooping up the
records of human effort, no
matter how humble, and gradu-
ally building up a sort of great
notebook, rich in characters and
incident, for future Australian
novelists and others interested
in the tale of the pioneering of
the district, of the unremitting
toil, simple food and simpler
raiment of an age in which life
went on “with an unhurried con-
tent that the present generation,
with all its advantages, seldom
achieves.”
Mr. Swancott has talked to
everybody with a tale to tell, has
been through the churches and
graveyards. The result is con-
tained in four slim volumes.
The gathering of all his
material was in itself a respect-
able task; the putting of it
together, the publication of it
under his own steam in Gosford
were tasks to earn the admiration
of other annalists. It is even
illustrated, and, all round, is a
remarkable performance, since it
deals with everything that hap-
pened, and seemingly everybody
who made anything happen,
onward from March 2, 1788,
when Phillip sailed northward in
his whaleboat past Lion Island
into Broken Bay.
Nothing seems to be missed.
The titbits from the court-
records are there, the tickets-of-
leave, even the detailed descrip-
tions of buildings, from the first
watchhouse at Brisbane Water,
“upright logs, or I should say
slabs, brick-nogged inside
twenty-feet by twelve, thus giving
room for the Constable to
occupy one portion of it.”
There are tales of bush-
rangers ; of sea gallantry ; of the
first onions grown ; of conversa-
tions in bars ; of smuggling and
fights and accidents; of the first
census, when there were 15
families in Brisbane Water and
281 acres cleared ; of the gather-
ing of shells for limeburning.
There are notes on crops, on
religion, on crime. There are
lists of those buried in various
churchyards. Five-hundred-and-
forty pages, about 10 paragraphs
to the page, each paragraph very
often about a different subject
from the last; and, all through,
names and more names, dates
and more dates, and no padding:
names of ships, men, towns.
All through, too, there is action
and more action, character and
more character, dressed-up for
the fiction-writer and served with
a background of incident, and
particularly of legend, and all
told with a delightful particu-
larity, especially when it comes
in biographical form.
You dip into it anywhere with
relish, but are baffled when it
comes to producing
fair samples of its
personalities —there are
so many of them.
Who could resist
Manasseh Ward, who
“married a wealthy
widow, moved into
Gosford and devoted
his activities to muni-
cipal and shire matters,
becoming the Mayor
of Gosford Municipal
Council and later first
President of the Erina
Shire Council”? The
townspeople of Gos-
ford cOuldn’t. On July
3, 1902, they “pre-
sented him with a
silver tea-service and
illuminated-address to
commemorate his silver-wedding
anniversary” and: “So well liked
were Mr. and Mrs. Manasseh
Ward that a special issue of the
‘Gosford Times’ was printed on
white satin to commemorate the
event and a public ball given in
their honor.”
And what searcher-out of
characters could pass the gar-
gantuan Fred Wheeler, of Gos-
N.R.M.A.’s guide to the setting.
ford? —he who was “very
stout,” and who, because his wife
was always urging him to see
a doctor, finally arrived at
Macquarie-street :
“What’s wrong with you?”
“My wife thinks I’m too fat.”‘
“What do you do?”
“I keep a bit of a store at
Gosford.”
“Who does the work?”
“I keep a man.”
“Who chops the firewood?”
“He does.”
“Well, you get up in the morn-
ing, walk a mile, then chop the
firewood.”
“What’ll happen if I don’t?”
“You’ll die.”
“Well, I’ll die before I chop
firewood.” >,
Fred merges—in the next para-
graph—into the subject of Gos-
ford lighting, at a time when the
kerosene-lamps were so weak
that they gave only a dim flicker
in the street, but so accessible
that “a boarder at the Royal
Hotel became absorbed in a
novel one evening, and when his
bedroom-lamp gave out thought
of the street-light outside, 'took it
up to his bedroom and finished
his story before retiring.”
Or you come across the Rev.
Mr. Johnstone, the only clergy-
man somebody recollected ever
seeing in corduroy bowyangs —
but a “scholar, a botanist, a
preacher of no mean order.”
You discover in the burial-
register of a local church foot-
notes to history. Against the
name of Sarah Davis the entry,
“the relict of the shipbuilder who
founded Terrigal and was killed
by the Bank crisis.” Also, the
clergyman’s personal reference to
an unfortunate female:
“Stranger to the district, who
died of heart-failure and drink —
not married to the man with
whom she was living.”
Of one deceased it was noted:
“Died of pneumonia—his coffin
has a glass window.” A little
child of six weeks earned the
Erina Township, in the 1880’s.
sad biography, “not wanted by
owner ; badly wanted by adopter
—never had a show.”
And of a laborer: “Death
induced by overwork in connec-
tion with the Woy Woy Railway
tunnel.”
At the end of a. bad year it
was written: “This used to be
a peaceful burial-register for the
most part but this is all
battle, murder and sudden
death.”
The names of the pioneers
alone are enough to inspire the
novelist; for example: “Wil-
loughby Bean, J.P., eldest son of
Captain Willoughby Bean, who
was prisoner-of-war in France
during the Napoleonic cam-
paigns, and lived there with his
family of eleven children after
the war, until 1830.”
His grant near Erina had
adjoining its northern boundary
the estate of Charles Horatio
Nelson Matcham, Nelson’s
nephew. Some of his pioneering
equipment included four pipes
of wine and 20 puncheons of
rum, but he ended-up as an
ordained clergyman, acting as
chaplain to Yarra Bend Asylum
in Victoria. He left a substantial
progeny, by which time Erina,
which he had abandoned as a
place of residence in the ’forties,
was a township with a large
number of hairy inhabitants as
picturesque as himself, and of
whom a typical specimen seems
to have been a certain Billy Kirk,
who flourished in the ’nineties
of the last century “down Frog
Hollow way towards Green
Point”:
He would put his “Farzer” and
“Muzzer” (as he called them) in the
plough while he drove them. The
family would not use butter. They
bought Holloway’s Ointment by the
gross of tins and spread it on their
bread instead....
Billy appeared at the shipyard one
day in a sorry plight. He was tattered
and torn and clad only in a hat,
shirt and blucher-boots. He wasn’t
friendly with Bob Henderson at
Saratoga, and rather than heg a loan
of a boat he had walked over the
drovers’ track round the hills.
Rock Davis, who was 6ft. 6in.
high, loaned Billy his trousers, which
fitted under Billy’s armpits and
were secured with a couple of pieces
of rope lashing. They had to be
rolled up seven or eight turns at the
bottom. Bill was then given some
food and drink and told them he
wanted a “corfin” for “Muzzer.”
She had died at “moondown” and
the corfin had to be 6ft. by two.
Oliver Davis, who was the unofficial
coffin-maker, decided that he had
better take an accurate measurement,
and with another worker took Billy
home. “Muzzer” had been dead
some time, but the local doctor at
the inquest was in no condition him-
self to enlighten the coroner as to
the particular “moondown” on which
the deceased had departed.
Billy, however, had nothing on
Paul Pickett, of Kincumber, who
o Continued on page 27)


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Highlight of Australian racing
next Saturday will be the
Moonee Valley Club’s £5150
Alister Clark Stakes (li mile),
run under Quality Handicap
conditions, with a 9.7 maximum
and a 7st. minimum. Entries
include most of the best horses
in training, and several States
will be represented in the line-up.
First-money is £3500, plus a £l5O
trophy. Backers laid 7-to-4-on
Prince Cortauld in last year’s
contest, but he was down the
course at the finish, outsider St.
Joel (16 to 1) defeating Flying
Halo and Commodore. A much
stronger field will be in next
Saturday’s event.
First of the important long-
established autumn handicaps,
the Oakleigh Plate, to be run at
Caulfield on Saturday, February
25, dates back to 1884, when
that versatile performer Malua
won with 9.7 in 1.11. Race-
record, 1.4, was made by Bird-
wood two years ago. Woorak,
one of the most brilliant
gallopers of his time, was suc-
cessful in 1917 with the welter
impost of 10.5. Other good
weight - carrying winners have
been Whakawatea (9.13), Aurie’s
Star and My Lord (each 9.12),
Pamelus (9.11), Pendant (9.10)
and Figure (9.9).
Apple Bay, winner of this
year’s w.-f.-a. Lightning Stakes
from another Sydney galloper
{Kingster), is engaged in the
Oakleigh Plate with 8.13 and
looks like winning that short
race because he’s in grand form,
having won the A. J.C. Challenge
Stakes before going to Mel-
bourne. His best win was in
the Doomben Ten Thousand, so
he has now succeeded in top
events in three States. Time for
Saturday’s Lightning Stakes,
59|sec., was only lsec. outside
Australia’s best.
Randwick trainer Jack Green
was confident before racing
began at Flemington on Satur-
day that Starover, previously
unbeaten in three starts in Mel-
bourne, would add the Criterion
Handicap to his record, but the
brilliant Sydney two-year-old
was well beaten into third place
by Delta’s brother, Centreway,
and Hot Spell. Centreway has
scored at his only two starts,
prior success being at Caulfield
on December 31.
Sailor’s Guide’s excellent
second to Rising Fast in the
w.-f.-a. Blarney Stakes at Flem-
ington has brought him right into
the Sydney Cup market. At time
of writing he’s expected to be in
the line-up for the Alister Clark
Stakes, in which helaas 7.6. Later
he will contest the V.R.C. St.
Leger.
Rising Fast may have his next
run in the St. George Stakes at
Caulfield on February 25
(w.-f.-a.; £2500 ; nine furlongs).
One opponent will be another
New Zealander, Somerset Fair,
and there will, be other class
horses in the evqnt.
Hay Harvest was youngest
starter in the Fulham Hurdle at
Flemington, and she had a
comfortable win over the older
Solar Bleu and Chief Bout.
She’s a four-year-old mare by
Sirius (1944 Melbourne Cup
winner), while her dam, Con-
serve, is a daughter of John
James and Compote by Poitrel
(Melbourne Cup winner), from
Comedienne by Comedy King
(another Melbourne Cup
winner), and she traces back to
Spearmint, son of Carbine. With
so much staying-blood on both
sides of her pedigree she should
stay for a week in hurdle events,
and looks at this stage a good
National prospect.
In a modest field of three-
year-olds, Miss Turkey won her
first race, the V.R.C.’s Fentona
Handicap, for that age-group,
without undue effort. Miss
Turkey was bred at H. G.
Raymond’s St. Albans stud,
Geelong, and gets her name from
her sire, Ottoman (imp.), a Blue
Peter stallion, and is from
Chosen (a sister to Aldershot and
to Three O Three) by Enfield
(imp.) from Little Sister by Gay
Lothario (imp.) from North Star
by Great Star (imp.). Aldershot
won an Adelaide Cup in addi-
tion to several Melbourne
events, in one of which, the
Ercildoune Stakes, he defeated
Dalray and Hydrogen by a
dozen lengths. Chosen is also
the dam of Selected, who has
been showing good form in two-
year-old events on Melbourne
tracks this season.
Brisbane had an interesting
two-year-old winner on Satur-
day—Strokemaker, who cleared
out with the Albion Park sprint
for juveniles. The colt was the
sole representative of defunct
Beaumaris at the 1955 New
Zealand yearling-auction, and
will be one of only a few horses
to carry on Beaumaris’s name.
That New Zealand galloper of
about six years ago won 14
races and £30,316 in stakes, wins
including the New Zealand
Derby and the Auckland and
Wellington Cups. Lady Clifton,
dam of Strokemaker, is a Cricket
Bat mare from Universal by
Arrowsmith (imp.).
Forty of the big list of entries
for the A.J.C. Doncaster Handi-
cap (March 31) were weighted
at Bst. or over, but more than
half of them have 7.7 or less,
while in the Sydney Cup (April
2) 67 of the 124 nominations
have been given less than 7.5,
which shows that both lists
include many horses with
modest race-form. Still, in
recent years horses lacking out-
standing form have won both
events. Most topweights have
failed.
Seven of the last 10 winners
of the Doncaster carried less
than Bst., and during the same
period the Sydney Cup went to
six horses also weighted below
Bst. These results indicate that
owners of topline performers
have had some reason for com-
plaining when the handicapper
has allotted them several pounds
more weight than expected.
Flattering imposts generally
bring the best results, a pointer
which has been noticeable in
Brisbane.
New Zealand star three-year-
old Syntax’s 8.8 in the Sydney
Cup—6lb. above w.-f.-a. —looks
tough. The colt, a winner at 10
of his 14 starts, is asked to con-
cede weight to proved stayers
older in years, while good
winners of his age, including
Caranna and Sailor’s Guide
(Derby winners), are on 8.2
(w.-f.-a.). Five-year-old Talis-
man, last year’s Sydney Cup
winner, also has 8.2.
Since 1866 (first Cup) the only
three-year-olds to win the
Sydney Cup with 8.5 or more
have been Carbon Copy, 8.5
(1949), Lord Cardigan, 8.7
(1904), Wallace, 8.12 (1896),
Carbine, 9st. (1889), and The
Australian Peer, 8.6 (1888). All
told, 24 three-year-olds have
won the two-miler, last of them
Bankstream, with 7st., five years
ago.
Latest list of registrations
include some interesting names,
among them Quick Freeze for a
colt by Cold Shower from
Arctic Fox; Love Walk
(Lambeth-Love Lassie); Inky
Pinky, for a filly by High Peak
from Parley Vous, and Diamond
Tiara for a filly by Crown Gem
from Topvue.
American writers are suggest-
ing that ex-Australian sprinter
Nagpuni would be a threat in dis-
tance events; in Sydney and
Brisbane he was known only as
a sprinter and didn’t do any rac-
ing over a bit of distance. His
time in winning the £A3350 nine-
furlongs Stepfather Purse at
Santa Anita —I.4B —was close to
the world-record, but the system
of taking times on U.S. tracks is
different from ours ; they time
“Lay off, sport! Were keeping this out of the papers !”
’em moving. Even so, as Delta’s
1.49| at Randwick in September,
1952, is the Australian nine-
furlongs record, Nagpuni’s time
was pretty hot.
The A.J.C. committee has
made a wise decision in reverting
to its traditional days for the
main events of the Randwick
spring carnival. The Epsom will
be run on the opening day
(Saturday) and the Metropolitan
on the second day (Monday).
* * *
Sydney’s heavy rain caused a
Friday - morning postponement
of Saturday night’s Inter-
Dominion opening at Harold
Park until tonight (Wednesday).
The extra few days will please
inter-State and N.Z. contenders
not long arrived ; they may now
find their legs and their
appetites before the first set of
heats. A gymkhana at Banks-
town gave a group of topliners
their final hit-out. Strangely, of
the six N.Z. visitors in a field of
thirteen, two, Caduceus and Our
Roger, who only stepped from
the boat last Wednesday, were
head-and-shoulders above their
fellow-Enzedders.
• ' • . . • • ’
World mile-and-a-half record-
holder, Caduceus (he ran 3.4 2-5,
a mile-gait of 2.2 4-5) is not
head-and-shoulders above his
rivals physically; he’s only a
pony. A showy, rich bay, firm-
muscled, intelligent head, he’s
a real little speed-merchant,
capable, apparently, of anything.
But his form suggests he’s a
temperamental champ., not
always in the mood for world-
records, and often slow from the
mark. At Bankstown he swept
in a devastating sprint from
last, almost, to be matching
strides (at the ratio of two-to-
one) with S.A. champion
Illawarra Wrack, who held-off
the Enzedder for a brilliant win.
Illawarra Wrack is not really a
brilliant horse, but is a master-
craftsman, tradesmanlike in his
actions and accomplishments.
Brucus, a former Enzedder, his
gleaming chestnut coat reveal-
ing his fitness, ran on boldly for
third. Our Roger, a big-boned
light bay, came home like —and,
in fact, resembled —an N.S.W.
Railways’ “38.”
Five colts, four fillies and one
gelding went into the final of
the Victorian Trotting Control
Board’s Breeders’ Plate, all of
them qualified by running in
the heats contested under lights
at various country meetings.
Nirvana, a son of Gay Venture
and Alice Glow, was a half-
head and 3yds. to the good of
his respective runners-up. A
Lawn Derby colt, dam New
York, Mimosa Lawn was
second. Hot favorite Clan
McKay gave away a lot of
ground at the start, and was,
perhaps, a good thing beaten.
Clan McKay, who prior to
Friday night had suffered only
one defeat —in the final of the
Sydney Youthful Stakes —is
owned by brothers H. and F.
Abrahams, who had won each
of the five Breeders’ Plates so
far run. A bay daughter of
good Victorian performer Clan
McTavish, she is raced on lease
by her trainer, W. J. McKay, and
Miss L. Peters. She will win
more races.
4- +
For the record, here is the
team: Johnson, Harvey,
McDonald, Maddocks (Vic.);
Miller, Benaud, Burke, Craig,
Crawford, Davidson (N.S.W.);
Lindwall, Archer, Burge, Mackay
(Q.); Langley, Wilson (S.A.);
and Rutherford (W.A.). John-
son is captain, with Miller his
deputy.
A resolute Test-team should
be compounded with the
materials provided. There is a
basis of solid batsmen, like
Burke, Rutherford and Mackay,
with the brilliant Harvey and
Miller to follow/ Without Miller
there are four class pace-men ;
and the spinners led by Johnson,
if not of the elect, are capable
craftsmen. The high standard
of Australian fielding will be
maintained.
Nine (Miller, Harvey, Langley,
Lindwall, Archer, Benaud, Craig,
McDonald and Davidson) were
in the 1953 side, while Johnson
missed that trip but had gone in
1948. (Three who went in both
1948 and 1953 are Miller, Lind-
wall and Harvey.) Two others,
Crawford and Burke, have also
played in England, in Lancashire-
league cricket.
There are no real surprises.
One or two others could have
been among the lucky ones. Of
the batsmen, young Simpson
must have been in the running,
and Favell and Carroll, too. This
applies also to a couple of
bowlers on the fringe. But only
17 were wanted, and when so few
aje to be chosen there must
inevitably be those staying
behind who are little, if at all,
inferior in ability to some who
are going. Most of those who
just missed will probably get a
consolation-trip when a team
goes to N.Z. next autumn.
Rutherford is the first West-
ralian to be selected from his
State for a tearfi to England.
Ernie Bromley, who went to
England in 1934, was a West-
ralian, but he was selected out
of the Victorian team. On the
matter of State representation,
Queensland has been given its
biggest quota in any team so far.
Ken Mackay began this year’s
Shield season, against N.S.W.,
with a “pair.” In his next match,
against S.A., he made 137, made
sundry other scores, and got
even with Miller and Co. in the
return game against N.S.W. with
203. He creeps rather than walks
around the field most unpre-
possessing ; it could be a reason
why the national selectors have
passed him by for so long. But
on his performances this year, he
couldn’t be left out of the Aus-
tralian team to go away.
Jim Burke has probably had
a more chequered Test-career
than anyone else. He got into
Test-cricket in the last two Tests
against Brown’s 1950-51 English
team, and made a century in his
first Test. Against the West
Indies the following season he
was passed over for the first two
Tests, recalled for the third (in
which he failed twice), and was
dropped. Passed over completely
against South Africa in 1952-53
and for the 1953 tour of Eng-
land, he was brought back in the
second 1954-55 Test against
Hutton’s team, was made 12th-
man in the third, brought bade
in the fourth, and then dropped
again—and not taken to the
West Indies. On appearances
now at least he should be more
firmly established in the Test
side in England.
Of the eight 1953 travellers
not going this time, Hassett,
Tallon, Morris, Ring and John-
ston have retired from big
cricket, while De Courcy, after
playing for N.S.W, against
Queensland in the first Shield
game this year, was retired. Hill
at times bowled well this year
and was a possible choice, but
Hole, always more full of
promise than of actual perform-
ance, and still brilliant in patches,
has slipped badly.
• ♦
Queensland is not the only
State with a real Mackay. Vic-
toria has a braw laddie yvho
opens for Melbourne University,
one Angus Mackay. Also a left-
hander, Angus the other day hit-
up 150 not-out in ’Varsity’s 8-264,
made in 250 min. and with some
of his northern namesake’s rock-
like defence.
“Maros”: It’s rare for a
fieldsman to take a catch after
the ball has been fumbled by
another player. Young W.A.
batsman Barry Shepherd, in a
pennant-match before the State
side came east, did it twice in
the one game. He took the first
one after former State bowler
Peter Dunn had failed to hold
a running-catch in the outfield;
the second, off Dunn’s bowling,
was a snick which rebounded off
the ’keeper’s glove on to first-
slip’s knee, to be caught by
Shepherd at second-slip.
* * *
In place of its Flying Milkman,
Dave Stephens, who’s no longer
a milk-oh, Australia now has a
Walking one. He’s Westralian
Don Keane, who at Melbourne’s
Olympic Park on Australia Day
broke his own Australian record
for the two-mile walk (new time,
13min. 28.65ec.). Keane lately
moved to Melbourne to get ready
for the Olympic Games, and, on
Stephens’s advice, bought a milk-
run to help along his training.


had no lids to his eyes, so that
he had trouble keeping the
sawdust out of them, but who
was yet a good shot, and claimed
that, when aiming, he blocked-
out with his thumb the view from
the eye he ought to have shut:
He boasted that he had killed
fourteen swans with one shot, and
when asked how he managed it, said
he took a sight on the leading bird
and as he pulled the trigger moved
the gun round and “sort of sprayed
them.” He had a hole in the calf
of his leg, and to account for it told
a fantastic story of dingoes following
him up a tree and the top of the tree
bending down to the ground so that
the dingoes got to him.. ..but his
wife said: “The old liar —his brother
Harry did it with a tomahawk.”
Gentlemen of this kidney were
merely incidental in communities
■ which boasted solid citizenry like
the Rock Davises —there were
three of them in line —who crop-
up every page or so of the Kin-
cumber story. Rock I, 6ft. 6in.,
was a boatman and boatbuilder,
and his relations, though they
could not match his six-feet-six,
were original.
It is recorded of Ned Davis, his
son, that he once used a lady’s
snow-white poodle during a fight
“to wipe surplus blood off the
contestants whenever it interfered
with the proceedings.” The lady
when “she saw her poodle look-
ing like the Japanese flag
threw up her hands in horror and
fainted.”
William Davis, another son of
Rock, was 6ft. high and weighed
20st.:
Coming down the creek in one of
Rock Davis’s launches with old Jack
Donaldson —also six-feet high but
only nine-stone weight—on a blister-
ing hot day, he took his shirt off and
exposed his wrinkled stomach.
“Struth, Bill, you’ve got more
corrugations on your belly than a
thousand-gallon tank,” said Jack.
William was obviously a man
with a perfectly developed sense
of proportion, and when he met
his tenant Charley Daley, whose
wife had left him while he was
away at the war, he sympathised
with him.
“I don’t like to see a woman
clear out from a man like that,”
he said. “It’s pretty tough. She
left owing me two weeks’ *rent.”
Francis Humphreys, the
original pioqeer of Kincumber
South (1827), was born in Sydney
in 1804. His father had been
bom in 1762. His own son lived
to 1902, and the son’s wife died
in 1941, aged 93. A great-grand-
son of the 1762 original died only
in 1951, so that the four genera-
tions covered 189 years and the
great-grandson had sat on the
knee of one who had, in turn,
known a grandfather who was
26 years old when Australia was
founded. So short is time.
Longevity, indeed, is as
common to the story of Brisbane
Water pioneering as are courage,
toughness, oddity and quaintness,
or even as love of both good and
bad liquor and a fight with fists,
waddies, axes or boots, according
to taste.
As good a sample as any was
Thomas Alison Scott, whom
quite a few very old men still
living knew personally as small
boys, and after whom Tascott
railway-station is named. When
he registered the birth of his last
child, Ann Rebecca (born Sep-
tember 22, 1857), he claimed to
have been born in Finsbury
Square, in the City of London,
82 years before (1775). His
father was a businessman of
Antigua, in the West Indies,
from which island Governor
Macquarie’s first wife hailed.
Young Thomas was sent out
from London to the West Indies
to work under his father’s friend,
Sir Thomas Boustein, Collector
of Customs on St. Thomas there.
He afterwards managed the
family-estate on Antigua and
began to study the cultivation of
sugarcane in 1797, furthering his
knowledge in Louisiana. Then
he set out for India, via Australia,
but, reaching Port Jackson in
1816 (Mr. Swancott says, though
I think he is wrong), planted cane
in Sydney Botanical Gardens.
Here, as superintendent ,of agri-
culture at Port Macquarie, he
made a failure of the job of
growing sugar and tobacco,
though he produced not only
sugar but rum.
He squatted on the site of Gos-
ford in 1830, and sent his first
privately-grown Australian sugar
from his own plantation at Point
Clare to Sydney in 1834. He put
in 30,000 banana-plants, and
nearly 30 years later, when
approaching his ninetieth year,
he was still preaching sugar.
In 1869 a Select Committee of
the N.S.W. Parliament sat on his
claim to a gratuity for his service
in establishing the industry, he
having claimed to be the
instructor and provider with
plants of the Hon. Louis Hope,
the father of the industry in
Queensland.
A second committee had to
be appointed when he was a little
older and it reported that “but
for Scott’s long-continued and ?
unwearied exertions in the cause,
sugar-cultivation would not have
been heard of in Australia.”
At 95 he was granted a pension
of £240 a year.
In 1827, at 52, he had married
a young lady named Maria
Ellis (or Crone) aged 15, and,
having produced 14 children in
30 years, he was very angry as
he registered the birth of his last
infant when the registrar asked
him whether he was acting on
behalf of a son or grandson.
He enjoyed his pension for 10
years and died of “extreme old
age” in 1881, at 105.
His wife —wife of a man bom
in 1775 —survived till she passed
(i Continued on page 30)
Improvements in a Fine Art
Safer Surgery
By JAMES HOLLEDGE
MILLIONS each year
suffer operations, so it
is reassuring to know
that the surgeon’s art is
being constantly improved. Your
operations are still subjects to
talk about for years after, but
there is a possibility that they
soon won’t be.
Day by day, almost, surgical
technique and resources are
advancing. Operations are now
almost as safe as taking a train-
ride.
Only a century ago half of
those who went uilder the knife
died of shock alone in the next
few hours. Those who survived
frequently fell victim to infection
or loss of blood. Ultimately
only one person in 10 could be
described as making a complete
recovery.
Even 20 years ago surgery
was not as sure and easy as it
is today. There were still the sick
hangovers from the ether. Fre-
“Swallowed your pride, you say? Seems to have given you indigestion .”
quently weeks of not eating or
sleeping followed. Scars were
big and lumpy and ugly. Fear
made a nightmare of the pre-
operation night. Surgery was
still a horror.
Thirty years ago 10 per cent.
of women undergoing a
Qesarean-operation died. Now
the figure is less than 1 per cent,
Even more apparent are the
improvements in chest-surgery,
Little more than 10 years ago
half of these patients , did not
recover. These days the figure
is down to one in 20 or better,
The reasons for these ad-
vances in surgery lie in increased
skill of the surgeons themselves,
new drugs and technical appli-
ances, new anaesthetics that have
almost replaced ether, and im-
provements in both preparation
and after-care of patients.
You have heard people say:
“Surgeons don’t care. They’re
all knife-happy these days,
They’ll have you open quicker
than a butcher can slice a joint
if you don’t watch out.”
Of course it is not true. If
doctors seem to recommend
surgery more frequently it is be-
cause they know that, with many
of the dangers removed, it is now
possible to do things that were
once doomed to failure before
they began.
“In surgery,” it has been said,
“yesterday’s miracle is today’s
routine. Today’s impossibility
is tomorrow’s new discovery.”
Except in emergency opera-
tions, the modern surgeon goes
to work only after exhaustive
study and testing of the patient.
He likes to get you in hospital
several days beforehand —to
make blood-tests, check the
heart, determine the most appro-
priate of the many anaesthetics
ayailable and get fully
acquainted with both the mental
and physical state.
New anaesthetics leave none
of the after-sickness, retching
and hangover of ether. There
are drugs such as sodium pento-
thal (the “truth drug”) to calm
the frightened patient, make the
ordeal far more endurable and
take the terrors from the once-
dreaded journey from ward to
operating-theatre.
Patients then arrive relaxed.
Surgeons find tissue easy and
more amenable to the scalpel.
Operating-table injuries are
negligible.
Surgeons are now more
skilled. They suture (sew-up)
with improved techniques and
material. Scars, it is claimed,
are now “things of surgical
beauty.” Without going as far
as that, it is certain they are
growing smaller and less notice-
able.
Even half -a - century ago
surgeons knew little about what
is now labelled as post-opera-
tional shock, by which patients
who left the theatre in apparently
good condition soon worsened
and died.
The cause was loss of blood,
which left the patient unable to
cope with the infections that are
always present, though dormant,
even in healthy bodies. Modern
transfusion-methods enable this
blood to be replaced. Doctors
estimate the amount of blood
lost, and it is immediately
returned to the patient before
shock occurs.
Once the transfusion-blood
was allowed to trickle into the
patient’s veins. It was often too
slow. Now the transfusion is
made under pressure, and the
patient receives the benefit
almost immediately. In a long
and intricate operation a
patient’s entire blood-volume of
12 to 14 pints may be replaced.
As another weapon against
infection, the present - day
surgeon also has the use of the
modern miracle-drugs, the anti-
biotics —penicillin, aureomycin,
Chloromycetin and so on.
The new technique known as
“early ambulation” follows the
operation: it merely means the
patient is got up from his bed
as soon as possible—often
within 24 hours of major
surgery.
The result is less pneumonia,
better healing and fewer mental
quirks to iron out. Bowels and
bladder are relieved normally
without worry. The patient eats,
sleeps and feels better.
For a long time surgeons were
the ugly-ducklings of the medi-
cal profession. They were not
even allowed to call themselves
doctors, and were considered
little better than barbers, from
whom their branch of medical-
science originated. The first
surgeons were barbers who took
on the mending of cuts, the
salving of bruises and the draw-
ing of teeth as a sideline to the
trimming of beards.
Even when they became
separate entities and founded
their own guilds they were still
regarded as qn a par with, say,
a male-nurse. In England doc-
tors were exempted from both
taxes and military service. The
surgeons were liable for both —
and they went into the Army as
plain, ordinary private soldiers.
Slowly, however, their import;
ance was recognised, and the
status of surgeons changed. They
became the equal of physicians,
with the same training. Today
they are generally regarded as
the superior, A humorist has
said, with more than a modicum
of truth behind his banter, “To-
wards physicians they adopt the
same lofty scorn as do the
drivers of Rolls-Royces towards
bicyclists.”
The surgeon’s skill depends on
his fingers. They must be more
deft and sure than a master-
watchmaker’s.
He learns needlework; how
to sew —even in his rubber
gloves, and with the artistry of
a fine embroiderer —in silk,
thread, nylon, catgut, stainless-
steel and platinum.
The surgeon must be able to
■ sew flesh and the more difficult
fat, which does not hold stitches
easily. He must be able to knit
bones. He has to stitch quickly
with one hand and tie knots with
the other —sometimes not with
fingers but with two pairs of
forceps; sometimes unable- to
see what he is doing and with
only his sense of touch.
During his training the
surgeon spends scores of hours
practising his sewing. In gloves
he sews endless pieces of cloth
together. He ties more knots
than a troop of training Boy
Scouts —but he does his knots
with only his left hand
and sometimes only with
instruments.
In his sewing he learns to do
the glover’s-stitch, the cobbler’s-
stitch, the purse-string and lock-
stitch, mattress-stitch, hidden
stitches for facial surgery,
internal stitches, stitches for
lacerated stomach-walls, stitches
for the sclera (the slippery,
gristlelike covering of the eye-
ball), and dozens of others.
To the surgeon the organs of
the human body are impersonal
parts of a machine. He handles
them as easily as a mechanic
takes down a motor-car.
Today he can take your heart
out in his hand and massage it
back into beating-action. With
a heart he is rather careful, as
they are notoriously fragile, but
with other portions of your
anatomy —your intestines, for
example—he is as nonchalant as
any other craftsman who knows
his job.
Every medical-student knows
the old joke that surgeons can
slice you open, remove the
bowels for examination, throw
them back when finished, sew
you up and then shake you so
that they will fall back into
place again.
It’s an exaggeration, but not
as silly as you might imagine.
“With the exception of vital
centres of the brain,” a Sydney
surgeon says, “any part of the
human body can be handled
easily by a surgeon without
damaging it in any way.” An
experienced surgeon can pick
up, examine, manipulate and
repair parts of the human body
with hardly more trouble than
you have putting a refill in a
ballpoint-pen.
If more people realised that,
there would be less anxiety
about operations. It is estimated
that, with the advances in medi-
cal science over the last few
years, in any operation today a
patient with normal heart, lungs
and kidneys has an almost 100
per cent, chance of recovery.
And while the patient under-
going surgery cannot yet be
described as occupying a bed of
roses, it is also rarely the old-
fashioned bed of pain.


gfrjV-MWg;
m
i
ML ft
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/rrioney-brder
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to-
NAME ....
ADDRESS
IS* '*3s*
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Umpire .... £3
Foreign .... £2/10/^
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ECONOMIC WAR
r T I HE Soviet, having seen the
advantages of Uncle Sam's
foreign-aid programmes as a
cold-war weapon, has not been
slow to copy it, with refine-
ments, and use it from Latin
America to the Far East.
The refinements include
“trading” instead of “aid” (the
former having more appeal
to the recipient’s dignity), and the
ostensible assurances on the
Soviet’s part that there are no
military strings attached to its
deals.
There is also the problem—
evident in the competition
between Britain and Czecho-
slovakia for the contract to build
an £80,000,000 steel-plant in
India —of prices and terms. For
the steel-plant, suggested British
terms were per cent, on a
seven-year loan; the Czechs,
presumably with Russian back-
ing, were willing to take 2} per
cent, over a much longer period.
On this economic offensive,
“New York Times” editorially
comments:
“The menace on the present
scale is new.
“The salesmen of Russian
goods all over the world will also
be salesmen of Communist argu-
ments and lies. They will be
soldiers in civilian clothes against
whom we cannot use, and would
not use, military force. The
answer to them must be better
goods and honest salesmen. The
so-called neutral world will buy
liberty and brotherhood in pre-
ference to the shoddy wares of
Communism if those precious
values are offered in an under-
standable form. But it isn’t
easy.”
New York “Herald Tribune”
notes that “there is no disputing
that Russia’s economic aggres-
sion is potentially every bit as
perilous as a military offensive,”
and “U.S. News and World
Report” adds that “the possi-
bility of a sudden flare-up of
shooting is not the chief worry
to the West”:
“More troublesome to cold-
war strategists are the new
tactics of Russia and Red China
—to move into Asia and the
Middle East with offers of trade,
loans and technical-assistance
that are getting the Communists
rooted in vital areas of the world
long closed to them.
“Many experts are convinced
that both Moscow and Peking
will do everything possible to
keep the brush-fires banked
through the year, because they
are finding economic penetration
more productive, less costly, and
almost free of risk.
“There is abundant evidence
that the system pays-off, so far
as the Communists are con-
cerned. The deal that sent Com-
munist arms to Egypt was
greeted with a burst of
enthusiasm for Moscow through
the Arab world. The tour of
India, Burma and Afghanistan
by Russia’s Nikita Khrushchev
and Nikolai Bulganin obviously
turned public sentiment in those
countries further away from the
U.S. Closer ties to Russia are
developing fast.
“The Communists, while calm-
ing the world’s fears, have
decided this is the time to take
on the U.S. and its allies in an
‘economic-assistance race’ in
Asia. Communist China can
contribute little, but the Soviet
Union has already committed
itself to economic aid to India
and Burma, and is making offers
elsewhere. Indonesia may ask
for help, and probably will get
it. There are signs that other
nations are queuing-up to get
in on Moscow’s promises of aid.
“Soviet assistance, already
under way, is not anything like
the large-scale aid handed
around by the U.S. in the past,
but there is no doubt that it is
winning friends for the Com-
munists. One big reason is that
the Russians are concentrating
on a few showy projects that
catch the headlines in areas
where U.S. aid generally went
almost unnoticed.
“Most U.S. aid in Asia now
goes to Vietnam, Formosa and
Korea, and a large proportion of
it is used to maintain military
structures in the three countries
at a time when the Russians are
promoting themselves as mer-
chants of peace.
“Also, U.S. aid in the past
has had strings attached to it,
with the result that many Asians
view with suspicion any offers
of help from Washington.
“The Communists are also
preying on these suspicions by
ballyhooing the ‘straight-busi-
ness-deal’ aspects of their own
programme for contributing to
the well-being of Asia a pro-
gramme that actually is tiny
when measured against U.S. past
performance.
“Experts looking for an ex-
planation of Russia’s advances in
Asia come up with these two
answers:
“War-fears have died down,
despite the tension around For-
mosa ; many countries have lost
their interest in ‘neutralism,’
because there is no reason for
being neutral if nothing is going
to happen. The Russians are
jumping at every chance to sign-
up the ex-neutrals on their side.
“Most Asians do not fear
Communism. In much of the
Far East, the Communists are
identified as successful fighters
against oppression.
“This feeling goes back to the
days when much of this vast
region was colonial territory
run by Western Powers. Nation-
alists, closed-off from political
activity because of their colonial
status, often went underground.
There, they discovered that the
Communists were the subversives
with'organisation. Many non-
Communists got their ideas of
revolution from the Reds.
“For another thing, both
Russia and Red China are
regarded by most Asians as
, countries that have developed or
are developing modern industrial
structures through their own
efforts and are now willing to
help other underdeveloped
countries. These same Asians
do not consider either Russia or
China as ‘colonial Powers.’ Thus
they are far less suspicious of
aid from the Communists than
they are of aid from the West.
“All of these factors, when
put together, add-up to baffling
troubles for the U.S. and its allies
in 1956 throughout the strategic
Middle East and South Asia.
This is the way one American
expert sums-up the outlook after
watching the new Communist
strategy develop at first-hand.
“ ‘The worst of it all is that
you can’t dramatise this struggle
for Asia and the Midde East in
the way you can dramatise a war.
What American is going to get
excited over a struggle fought
with economic and political
weapons for the support of Asian
countries? There’s simply not
enough blood and gore to get
people excited.
“ ‘Also, it costs money to
engage in a struggle like this, and
results are hard to see. In a
war, you either win, or get licked,
or you get a draw. Everybody
knows how you came out. In
New York “Herald Tribune "
THE SMILE ON THE FACE OF THE PYTHON
the struggle I’m talking about-
the struggle against economic
and political penetration by
Moscow —you will never be cer-
tain where you stand.’ ”
Science Bottleneck
The Soviet’s announcement
of its plan to train 4,000,000
scientists —or, at least, technical
specialists—in its next five-year
plan has caused’ both the U.K.
and the U.S. to look more
closely at their own educational
programmes.
The U.S., at present ahead of
Russia in scientific manpower,
could, it is held, lose that lead
unless it accelerates and en-
larges its output of scientists,
and the position in Britain,
which produces about 17,000
scientists and technologists a
year, is, as London “Financial
Times” comments, “still disturb-
ing” :
“The emphasis in Russia as
compared with the United
States, and even more this coun-
try [Britain], is on the study of
science at the cost of the
humanities. From the higher
educational levels the annual
output of graduates is consider-
ably smaller than in the United
States. Nevertheless, the
number of university - trained
engineers and agricultural-
specialists included in this total
appears to be twice as large in
Russia as in America and the
number of physicians three
times as large.
“In the U.K. more and more
industries report that the limit-
ing factor on developments is
not finance but technological
manpower. This shortage is par-
ticularly apparent in the new
spheres of atomic energy, elec-
tronics and the broader field of
automation.
“Even in the United States—
the birthplace of automation—
the scientist who is also a
mathematician and a man with
a creative imagination to develop
whole control-systems is today
proving so scarce that develop-
ments in this field are being
slowed-down.
“Though there is a shortage of
technically-trained people of
almost every sort in the U.K.,
the gravest lack is also in the
field of technologists who have
at the same time an understand-
ing of complex matters of
fundamental science.”
In a further comment on the
same subject, Sir Francis Simon,
Professor of Thermodynamics,
said in a 8.8. C. talk (published
by “The Listener”) that “the
[technological] manpower-out-
put by the West remains more-
or-less stationary”:
“There are many reasons for
this, the most important being
the neglect of science-teaching
in the schools of Britain and the
United States.
“We have not been able to
attract science-masters in suffi-
cient numbers and of high
enough quality. This lack of
able teachers means that much
too small a proportion of our
younger generation is being
inspired to take up science.
“The worst of it is that the
position is bound to deteriorate
further. Government and in-
dustry are in urgent need of
more scientists and attract too
many of those who should
become science-masters. This
means still fewer scientists in
the new generation, thus still
fewer science-masters in the
future, and so on.
“We have a spiral spiralling
inwards which threatens the
very existence of our future
scientific community—although
there is no dearth of potential
scientists in the ranks of the new
generation. We have only to
look at the hordes of Walter
Mittys who travel through outer
space. Many of these poor
creatures might have been on
their way to becoming real
scientists if . they had met an
inspired teacher. Then they
would know about the excite-
ment of discovering the ways of
Nature, and would not waste
their time with the inanities of
popular science-fiction.
“Education in science and
technology must be supported by
adequate funds. How much
does the. [U.K.] Government
spend on education and training
in science and technology at uni-
versity level, including all funda-
mental research? A little more
than one per cent, of what goes
into defence.
“You see to what extent we
are standing on one foot only;
and it is high time we realised
that an essential and ever-grow-
ing part of our defence lies out-
side the military sphere.
“Many of our difficulties
could be mitigated by proper col-
laboration with other countries
of the West, particularly with
the United States.
“Our need here, however, is
not lip-service but action. As
an example I mention that the
first information we had on
many important American de-
velopments in the peaceful uses
of atomic energy was given to
us at the Geneva Conference at
the same time as to the Russians.
It is well known that we have no
collaboration whatsoever in the
atomic-weapons fields, but it is
not always realised that the con-
sequent duplication has im-
mobilised a large section of our
scarce manpower. The breaking-
off of full collaboration in the
atomic field at the end of the
war has damaged the cause of
the West much more than all
spies together.
“The full seriousness of our
position is not yet too apparent
in our economy and it is there-
fore difficult to appreciate the
urgent need for action. Thus
our status will deteriorate, not
with a dramatic crisis, but
steadily, and ~ there is grave
danger that we shall wake-up
only when Russia’s exports of
plant and technologists, coupled
with her diplomatic ingenuity,
have brought the Arab countries
and the rest of Asia into her
orbit. And then it will be too
late.”
Greek Elections
Greece is also set for general
elections this month, and with
all the angry dickering over
Cyprus they could be of more
significance than usual.
A Leftist trend is anticipated,
and, as London “Time and Tide”
comments, the campaign has
begun with the customary pro-
liferation of parties, some of
which will disappear or merge
with others before polling-day.
A Poujadist party has been
formed, and Poujade has been
invited to Greece to participate
in the campaign—he has also


Leadership Demands Constant Achievement
» X
W .
World’s
Finest
Airliner is
Serving
p> It
LOCKHEED SUPER CONSTELLATION
The latest in a line of great Lockheed transports,
the 1049 G version of the Super Constellation is
serving Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort,
speed and luxury of the roomiest airliner in the
world. 22 great world airlines now,, fly Super
Constellations over connecting routes which cross every
ocean and span every Continent.
For your future enjoyment,
watch for the Super Constellation 1649 A
with its revolutionary high-speed,
long-range wing. It will go into .service
as a companion to the 1049 G
to carry further Lockheed’s
tradition of leadership.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS and KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES afford
ySuper Constellation service to 5 Continents from Australia.
V
LOCKHEED
AIRCRAFT CORPORATION ‘ BURBANK < C A,L IPOA N I A. • U. S. A.
been invited by admirers to visit
Britain, Italy, Holland, Canada,
Belgium and Switzerland.
“Cyprus,” “Time and Tide”
adds, “is the main cause of the
Leftward trend”:
“Today almost all Greeks
except the Communists and
fellow-travellers are National-
ists ; but the moderate
Nationalists, while uncom-
promising in their demand for
union, wish Cyprus to remain a
British base. (The Americans
are building large military instal-
lations on the island of Crete,
but, while Crete is being trans-
formed into an American base,
it remains under Greek
sovereignty and there is no
trouble or friction of any kind.)
“The Greek Communists and
fellow-travellers, on the other
hand, are supporting union with
Cyprus as a means of getting, rid
of the British altogether and of
jockeying Greece into neutral-
ism. It is for this reason that
there is a temporary alliance
between Communism and active
nationalism in Greece, as in
Cyprus. And as it is not very
easy to retain the clear distinc-
tion between ‘island’ and ‘base’
in the heat of an electoral cam-
paign and omit the spread of
strong anti-British sentiment
the radical policy of the extreme
Left has a strong appeal.”
The “proliferation of parties”
mentioned by “Time and Tide”
will probably resolve into two
main camps: the National
Radical Union, formed by
Premier Karamanlis, and the
opposing Democratic Union,
headed by one-time Premier
Georges Papandreou and taking
in most of the Leftist elements,
including the outlawed Commun-
ist party under the name of
Union of Democratic Leftists.
Although Papandreou main-
tains that the election will be
fought on domestic attitudes,
“New York Times” comments
editorially that “the political
climate in Greece is such that the
main issue will inevitably be
Greece’s foreign policy”:
“On that issue the popular
trend is at the moment toward
the Left and toward a neutralist
stand that would further com-
promise Greece’s already-im-
paired position in the North
Atlantic and the Balkan alliances.
“In advocating such a course'
the Leftist leaders seek to emu-
late what they consider to be the
profitable policies of Yugoslavia
and Egypt. But the principal
factor is the deep dissatisfaction
of the Greeks with British rule
in Cyprus and with.the United
States for its alleged failure to
support Greece in this dispute.
“Both King Paul and Premier
Karamanlis are dfting their best
to calm the atmosphere and keep
the realities to the fore. But the
neutralist trend has gained such
headway that Foreign Minister
Theotokis has warned that the
West could ‘lose’ Greece in the
coming election, to the detriment
of the whole free world.”
The Middle East
Three comments on the pains
in the “solar plexus of world-
communications” :
London “Sunday Times”:
“Soviet penetration is proceed-
ing there [Middle East] with
every advantage. The Arab
world is, as ever, divided against
itself. The repercussions of the
drive for oil cause further dis-
unity. Saudi Arabian money
derived from oil-royalties is
fanning the latent anti-
imperialist and anti-European
passions of the Arab masses.
“Even the Nato defensive
shield is beginning to crack,
thanks to the trouble in Cyprus.
The Egyptian purchase of
Czechoslovak arms may well
cause the Egyptian-Israeli dis-
pute to boil over. Meanwhile,
every Czechoslovak or Russian
technician will be an active
Communist agent: Egyptian Air
Force officers are being trained
in Prague, where no doubt they
are being well indoctrinated.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “Sir
Anthony Eden, in his reference
to the lessening of war-dangers,
was careful to add that a uni-
versal explosion could easily be
touched-off by hostilities in
some critical region ‘such as the
Middle East.’ The basic causes
of peril can be quickly stated.
The Arab States have never be-
come reconciled to the existence
London “Daily Express”
"QUEECK, MEESTERS—NICE FRIENDLY LETTER-CARD ”
of Israel, and long for the day
when they will find the strength
and the opportunity to destroy
this young country. It has been
Western policy to preserve a
balance of arms between Israel
and her Arab neighbors and so
reduce the risks of conflict.
“These arrangements, designed
to preserve the peace, have been
roughly disturbed by the Czech
arms-deal with Egypt, which was
a deliberate attempt by the Com-
munist Powers to upset the
balance of arms. From now on
there is a risk not only that
the Arab States may grow strong
enough to launch an attack upon
Israel but also that the Israelis,
fearing the increase of Arab
military power, may plunge into
a preventive war while they
judge themselves to have a
chance of victory.”
* * *
’‘Manchester Guardian”:
“There is no doubt that
Centurions and Vampires went
to Egypt before the first Soviet
deliveries {of arms] began.
“The promise of [arms] sup-
plies to Israel would do much to
remove her feeling that she
should strike while there is time,
and the promise of military
action against the violation of
frontiers by either side would
help to deter Egypt. It is ironical
that, having said [with the U.S.
and France] in the 1950 Declara-
tion that an arms-race ought to
be avoided, Britain has pro-
moted one to the extent that
she ought now to send extra
supplies. But the damage has
been done, and Israel canno.t
safely be left weak.
“As to violation of frontiers,
the wording of the 1950 Declara-
tion was plain enough. It said:
“The three Governments,
should they find that any of these
States was preparing to violate
frontiers or armistice - lines,
would, consistently with their
obligations as members of the
United Nations, immediately
take action both within and out-
side the United Nations to pre-
vent such violation.
“Our [Britain’s] obligation to
defend the present dividing-line
is evident.”
British Arms and Egypt
T , ~
L ° ndon ° ad X, Mai , P. ost :
mortem on the furore raised
by the supply of British tanks to
t .
g 4fh ere were three princ ipal
charges against the [U.K.]
Government. The first was that
the arms . t raffic was a typical
x ‘merchants-of-death’ busi-
nes/ wh i c h the lilywhite
Socialists would never engage,
“In fact, as the [Government]
White Paper shows, most of
Britain’s surplus arms were sold
by the Socialist Government in
1947, 1948 and 1949. They raked
in a neat little £800,000,000. A
useful windfall for the Welfare
State. What you might call beat-
ing swords into dentures.
“The second charge was that
Britain was encouraging a
Middle East arms-race. But there
is an official supply of war-
material to that quarter, regu-
lated in concert with France and
the U.S. to preserve a
proper balance.
“The other supply, through
private firms, is what the hoo-
hah is about. This is strictly con-
trolled. If, nevertheless, some
obsolescent tanks have got
through (as they have) it is
because other Governments have
been more remiss or less con-
scientious than our own.
“This leak has now been
stopped. In future Britain will
ask foreign authorities to
guarantee that demilitarised
material from this country shall
not be remilitarised and exported.
“The third charge is that in
allowing ‘illicit’ arms to go
abroad the Government favored
Egypt as against Israel. This also
fails. While Egypt received 151
Valentipes, Israel took at least
55 Sherman tanks. The 55 Sher-
mans are as good as the 151
Valentines. Israel also received
20 Mosquito aircraft.”
Atomic Sub.
Progress report by the U.S.
Info rmation Service on
America’s first atomic submarine,
U.S.S. Nautilus, launched a year
ago:
In 12 months it has—
Made 365 dives and travelled
over 26,000 nautical miles on 75
cruises without refuelling.
Travelled submerged for more
than half that distance.
Had one period of non-stop
sailing her longest lasting
eight days and 14 hours.
Travelled three days, 17 hours
and 14 minutes without coming
to the surface.
Made a 1300-mile voyage
totally submerged at an average
speed of more than 16 knots.
Various Voices
Admiral Burke (U.S. Chief of
Naval Operations): “Sea-based
reprisal-forces are one of the
most effective deterrents to
nuclear aggression. Ships are
tough targets to find and keep
pinpointed. They are even
tougher to destroy after they are
pinpointed.”
Max W. Bishop (U.S. Ambas-
sador to Thailand): “Our task is,
when compared to that of world
Communism, an easy one. For
we need speak only the truth ;
its eloquence is enough. The
Communists, on the other hand,
must speak falsely and practise
deception and conspiracy.”
Prime Minister Eden : “It has
been for some time generally
accepted that the danger of
world war and military conflict
has receded. I do not want to be
misunderstood. The risk is
always there, and a universal
explosion could easily be
touched-off by hostilities in some
critical region such as the Middle
East. There is plenty of dry
tinder about.”
Britain’s Minister of State for
Foreign Affairs, A nthony
Nutting: “In a world where the
Great Powers have reached
virtual saturation-point in terms
of potential nuclear destruction
it is in political and economic
spheres that the principal Com-
munist threat now lies. Don’t
let’s kid ourselves, either, that
there is anything empty in this
threat. Just because the military
menace of the Communist world
may have been checkmated,
don’t let’s assume that they are
impotent to strike, and strike
mortal blows, with other
weapons. It may well be that
Korea was the last shooting-war
in the history of our world. But
it doesn’t mean that we have
finaily defeated or even halted
the advance of Communism.”
Mr. Dulles : “We can succeed,
not by outbidding Communism
in sheer amounts of economic
aid, but by making newly inde-
pendent and newly articulate
peoples feel that they can best
satisfy their wants by becoming
and remaining part of the com-
munity of free nations.”
U.S. Vice-President Nixon:
“Since World War II the Com-
munist conspiracy has added
600,000,000 people and a quarter
of the earth’s territory to the
area which it dominates, without
the loss of a single Russian
soldier in combat.”


Cut out stalling und
you cut down costs
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision,
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the
full range of Mobilco JUNIOR Tree Fellers.
Name
Address...,
»eeeeeoeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeoeoeeeeee«eeeeMeeeeeee#ee«oe
oeeeeeeeeeeeeeeoeeeaeeeeeeeMeeeeeeeeeeeeooee
fa
1
I
J
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH . . . .
Look at it... a Saw with one tingle
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced the
clutch engages automatically. When the
throttle is closed the blade stops auto-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. It does not matter how
often you jam or stall your blade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/%
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/%
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £l6B, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/%
ALL ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50*54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX 1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - - PHONE; WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH . . . AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
at the back of the shop nearly
a, year ago. It was a little
embarrassing for both of them.
Remembering the fierce enmity
of her husband, Bownell began
to talk about casual things, try-
ing to make her laugh at the
juvenile nonsense that was going
on among the town’s most
respectable adults.
But she kept her eyes on his
face, wide open in the most un-
quenchable earnestness, obvi-
ously not at all interested in his
small-talk. He fell silent,
wondering if she mightn’t after
all be hostile towards him
because of the campaign against
her husband at the bowling-
club.
But she suddenly dropped her
eyelids, leaned closer to him
and said, “Oh, Mr. Bownell,
I’m so awfully sorry that Fred’s
been behaving so badly, when
you’ve been so good to us.”
Bownell’s fat face broke up
into a huge delighted grin. “It’s
nothing,” he said. “I know too
much about people to expect
gratitude for every little thing
I do.”
She opened her eyes wide
and looked in his again.
“But it’s not a little thing you
did for us. It’s a big thing.
It’s wonderful!”
Bownell permitted himself
another gratified smile'. “I
wouldn’t say it’s wonderful,” he
said modestly.
“Oh, it is!” Mrs. Whynott
insisted in her emotional voice.
“It is wonderful!”
She went on like that for the
rest of the dance; then started
to complain about Fred. He
frightened her and led her a
miserable life. This was all very
illuminating to Bownell, and
very gratifying, too. When the
music stopped they were stand-
ing close to each other in the
middle of the floor after all the
others had resumed their seats.
It was noticed and remarked
upon by a number of people ;
Fred Whynott was an interested
spectator.
BOWNELL had another dance
with Mrs. Whynott towards
the end of the evening, after
having explained to his wife
what a bad time Mrs. Whynott
was having in one way and
another. It turned out to x be the
last dance of the evening, and
the party began to Freak-up.
The Bownells were leaving
when Mrs. Whynott came hurry-
ing after them; Fred had gone
home without her; would Mr.
and Mrs. Bownell be so kind as
to take her home?
For the Bownells things were
a little complicated by the fact
that they were entertaining visi-
tors. However, Bownell
arranged things neatly by send-
ing his wife home with the visi-
tors, while he took Mrs.
Whynott home.
It is the custom for people
who live in residences behind
shops to go in by the front
during business-hours, but by
the back at night. Hence
Bownell drove up the dark,
narrow back-lane as a matter
of course. Late at night all
backyards tend to look alike, so
neither Bownell nor Mrs.
Whynott could honestly be
blamed if they accidentally
stopped a house or two short of
their destination, particularly as
they were very much pre-
occupied «<3yith the question,
whether or not he should escort
her into the house and help her
to confront Fred in the rage he
was probably nursing.
They debated the question
further before she got out of the
car, and the more she told him
of how horrible Fred could be,
the more he insisted on going
with her. Yet, as she pointed
out again and again, his accom-
panying her would possibly
enrage Fred all the more. It
was a question which could not
be settled in a matter of minutes.
They were still discussing it with
considerable agitation when they
saw two men walking down the
lane towards them.
From the very first glimpse
there was something menacing
about them, coming so purpose-
fully along the dark and narrow
lane at that late hour of the night.
As soon as they came abreast of
the car they turned abruptly and
flashed a torch into it; then
they wrenched the door open on
Mrs. Whynott’s side with
menacing violence.
It was Whynott and his un-
savory friend; Whynott, the
grossly injured husband, in a
state of rage and despair over
the incontrovertible evidence of
his wife’s and Bownell’s guilt.
TN his office at his big general-
store next morning, Bownell
had visits from each of his
departmental managers in quick
succession; each coming to
report a most unorthodox and
alarming occurrence. Whynott
was making a tour of the shop,
buying the most expensive
articles in each department, and
telling the assistants that there
would be “no charge.”
In times of crisis (and
Bownell knew this was a crisis
by the ghastly prickling of the
hair at the back of his neck and
the feeling of nausea in his
stomach), Bownell always went
to see his lawyer, who happened
also to be his friend, Penn. In
a daze he made his way across
the street, up a flight of stairs,
past rows of typists typing away
the destination, on unnaturally-
wide typewriters, of most of the
property in and around Jindulla,
to knock on the innermost door
and call urgently for admission.
Penn immediately dropped his
multifarious strands of intrigue
to put his elbows on his cluttered
desk and listen to his distressed
friend.
“It’s about as bad as it could
possibly be,” Penn decided.
Then Penn’s secretary entered
cautiously to tell them that
Aitchison wanted to see them
immediately on the most critical
business.
“It’s about Whynott,” Aitchi-
son said, more brow-furrowed
and eye-haunted than usual.
“Do you know what he’s up to
now? You’d never imagine it!
You couldn’t believe it! Just
when the next premium is
coming due in a month or so,
he wants to cancel his policy
and get the paid premiums
returned to him!”
He made a despairing gesture ;
a man whose feet he had set on
the path towards the true
twentieth-century salvation was
now going to be utterly lost.
“Returned to him!” Bawnell
exclaimed.
It was almost ludicrous
enough for laughter. .The men
who had actually paid the
premiums eyed each other
glassily.
“It’s in his name,” the
insurance-man said hopelessly,
“I never expected anything like
this. I can’t stop .him. The
only thing we might do is to
placate him somehow; but that
doesn’t seem possible. He seems
to have it in for everybody, par-
ticularly you, Bownell. I’d say
there’s nothing anyone can do.”
Bownell, with his night’s and
his morning’s disasters heavy
upon him, sat there without a
notion of what should be done ;
but Penn’s face was coolly
calculating.
“We’ll go into it and see what
can be done,” he said, dismissing
Aitchison with a masterful wave
of his hand.
A MONG the people big
enough to be in the knoyv
in Jindulla, there were a
number of legends about
Penn’s legal strategy. The bulk
of the population, and particu-
larly men like Whynott,
regarded him simply as a hide-
bound old rule -of - thumb
document-purveyor who’d never
had an original idea in his life.
Now something animated in his
face gave Bownell a sudden
hope that Penn was going to
have one of his great moments.
“Aitchison said you ought to
placate him,” Penn stated, rock-
ing back in his chair and putting
his fingertips together in front
of his lean, leathery face.
It sounded extremely banal to
Bownell, waiting for something
brilliant.
“If he were allowed to play
competition-bowls, do you think
that would placate him?”
“A bit,” Bownell admitted
dispiritedly. “But it’s too late
now to bring him back to reason
that way. Things have piled-up
too much.”
“I was' thinking,” Penn con-
tinued, “that he seems to have
entirely recovered his health.
It shouldn’t hurt him to play,
should it?”
He closed one eye and
watched the nervous twitchings
of his long, lean hands. These
were the classic symptoms,
which the legend said preceded
the epic flashes of genius.
“I was thinking,” Penn said
again, and smiled briefly at
Bownell, “that it’s only a short
time until the big city carnival
comes round again. If he could
play in that, don’t you think it
might solve your problem?”
He looked away abruptly so
that there wouldn’t be too
patent an understanding between
them.
DOWN at the city bowling-
carnival a fortnight later
Whynott played brilliantly,
winning great successes for
Jindulla. But on the last day he
had a fit, or a seizure of some
sort, almost exactly like the one
he’d had during the same carni-
val in the preceding year. The
only difference was that he
didn’t recover consciousness.
The autopsy revealed that the
cause of death was an aneurysm,
but since it was recognised that
this condition is notoriously diffi-
cult to diagnose beforehand, no
blame was attached to the medi-
cal practitioners or to anyone
else connected with the issuing
of the life-insurance policy.
over on August 19, 1905, at 93,
She therefore carried memories
of Macquarie’s Australia, on
past the month after the forma-
tion of Deakin’s first Common-
wealth Ministry, and her life had
spanned a period during which
the population of Australia had
risen from 12,000 to over
4 000000.
’Moreover, she had been so
clear of mind to the last that she
“had been able to keep her
household accounts perfectly
until within two days of her
death.”
One of her sons, Robert, born
in 1851, was killed in a tragic
accident in 1920. He and his
father between them covered
joint lives of 145 years-from
13 years before Botany Bay
settlement was founded till after
the return of the A.I.F. from
World War I.
Scott, Kendall, F. A. Hely—
that splendid specimen of Irish
military adventurer, who settled
ft Sara in the days of
Governor Brisbane, became an
actor in many historic events,
and lies buried in a neglected
grave about a mile-and-a-half
north of Gosford by the mam
Pacific Highway these are au
figures in Mr. Swancott’s gallery,
along with Hovenden Heiy,
F.A.’s son, the man from Innit)
College, Dublin, who on d
accompanied Leichhardt anu
eventually died of hunger when
lost W Bungarabee Brusn
(according to tradition, thougn
possibly not according to taw-
Also Edward Hammond Har
graves, gold discoverer_ (wb«*
fatmly-bfood still rou ”
Norahville), and Shem Davis, ui
shark-catcher,
They and many moreirom
round Brisbane Water an ep
characters, and Mr. ww-
suits them as a biographera
recorder of their doings, say*-
and habitat. As a wjwjg*
for writers m search of both ij
and characters his four *
volumes -Gosford, Woy y
and the Hawkesbuiy . ,
Erina, Kincumber and Term >
Og-t-r.
published by r author
worth, in the old argot u
bush, “a guinea a box.
FULL OF THE MOON
Written at full of the moon
And a blue night riding
On the cold knives of air
As my bare thoughts go striding
The back roads of my brain,
A poem goes twisting like pain
In the elaborate torsion
And tracery of the mind,
But words will not move to their
stations
Nor my heart stand up alone.
When the brain aches against
bone
And the heart is frozen or boiling,
What will relieve the night?
Only a poem uncoiling,
Written at full of the moon.
W.A.
C. WALLACE-CRABBE.


A Modern Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
\
7 rw
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health.
Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INS’J?AIi IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
- DISTRIBUTORS -
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIO.:
S.A. :
W.A.:
TAS.:
V
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
N. Guinea :
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney,
Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. <S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide. -
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Mel-
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also
Launceston, Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Wool Classing
and Shed Management, by J. J.
Hardie; published by The Bulletin.
-6264.
To buy (1) copies of works by
H. G. Wells, G. B. Shaw and Edgar
Wallace, all clothbound and in good
condition; (2) works on current
economics.—626s.
To buy copy of The “Bulletin”
Reciter. —6266.
Information Sought
Something on poultry-lice ?
The most common externaf* para-
sites of poultry, these insects, l-Bth
to 3-16th of an inch long, are oval-
shaped and greyish or yellowish in
color. The species of importance in
poultry are head-, body-, shaft- and
fluff-lice; head- and body-lice are
found on the skin, shaft- and fluff-
lice attached to the base of the
feathers. The lice live on skin-
fragments, debris and blood sucked
from the base of the feather-follicles.
The considerable irritation they cause
Jesuits in a loss of condition and, in
adult stock, a significant loss in egg-
production. Their life-cycle is com-
pleted on the bird in two to three
weeks; but, especially in autumn and
winter, a single pair may produce
over 100,000 descendants within two
or three months. Eggs are laid in
clusters and are glued to the feathers;
they hatch in five to eight days. The
lice spread by direct contact, crawling
from one bird to another when on
the perch or close together. On the
bird, the lice can live for several
months, but when separated from
their host they die in four to six
days.
* * * *
(1) Some details of England’s
Chapel Royal ? (2) Was Henry
Purcell ever associated with it ? Some
information on his life and work?
(1) This institution, whose service
in the development of English music
is incalculable, dates from 1135,
though it was not until the time of
Elizabeth (1558-1603) that it reached
its heights. Its personnel then
included Tye, Tallis, Gibbons, Morley,
Tomkins and Bull—musicians who
brought English church-music to a
point comparable with that of the
Sistine Chapel at Rome. They
developed the English madrigal and
laid the foundations of artistic
keyboard-music. With the execution
of Charles I in 1649, the Chapel was
disbanded, to be revived 11 years
later by Charles 11, fresh from
Lully’s lively music at the Court of
Louis XIV. Innovations then
included a band of 24 fiddlers in
church. Less is heard of the Chapel
under William and Mary, Anne and
the Georges. Today it consists of a
body of clergy, choirmen and boys
(“Priests in Ordinary, Gentlemen, and
Children”). (2) Yes, Henry Purcell
(1659-1695) was a Gentleman of the
Chapel Royal. In 1673 he was
appointed assistant to the Keeper of
the King’s Instruments; next year he
became organ-tuner at Westminster
Abbey, and in 1679 became organist
there. Purcell, called “England’s
Bach,” was a prolific composer, con-
tributing with equal success to both
church and theatre. He wrote five
operas (“Dido and Aeneas” his best
known), anthems, odes, secular
songs, sonatas and fantasies for
strings, and numerous pieces for the
harpsichord.
* * * *
(1) What arrangement did John
Batman come to with the natives of
Port Phillip? (2) Was his treaty
with the natives recognised by the
Governor of the day?
(1) The entry in Batman’s Journal
for June 6, 1835, records that he was
accosted by eight armed men and
taken to the huts of a tribe. He had
with him some natives from Sydney,
who acted as interpreters: “After
some time, and full explanation, I
found eight chiefs amongst them who
possessed the whole of the country
near Port Phillip. Three brothers,
all of the same name, are the princi-
pal chiefs The other five chaps
were [also] fine men. After a full
explanation of what my objdct
was I purchased two large tracts
of land from them about
600,000 acres, more-or-less—and
delivered over to them blankets,
knives, looking-glasses, tomahawks,
beads, scissors, flour, etc., as pay-
ment for the land, and also agreed
to give them tribute, or rent, yearly.
The parchment the eight chiefs signed
this afternoon, and delivered to me
some of the soil of each of them, as
giving me full possession of the tracts
of land. This took place alongside
of a beautiful stream of water, and
from whence my land commences,
and where a tree is marked four
ways to know the corner boundary.”
Next morning Batman drew-up
triplicates of the deeds, each one
executed by the three principal and
five subordinate chiefs. (2) The
episode has been frequently ridiculed,
though Batman himself was com*
pletely honest about it. Still, he
took no pains to discover if this tribe
did possess rights over such a large
tract of land. Soon after his return
to ' his home in Tasmania he
forwarded a report of his proceedings
to Arthur, Lieut.-Governor of Van
Diemen’s Land, but Arthur’s reply
warned him and his associates, who
had meanwhile founded the Port
Phillip Association, not to expect
confirmation from the Crown of
title to the land. By an Act passed
in N.S.W. in 1835 the occupation of
Crown-lands without authority was
made an offence; and Sir Richard
Bourke, Governor of N.S.W., to
whom Arthur referred the' matter,
therefore considered Batman and his
partners as trespassers (as he like-
wise regarded John Pascoe Fawkner
and his party). Legal opinion in
London consulted by Batman’s Asso-
ciation advised that the Grown could
legally oust the Association from their
possession, and that the law need
not respect the claims of either
Batman or Fawkner. After much
bickering between all the parties con-
cerned, the Association, for its
pioneering, was given remission of
payment by the Crown for the pur-
chase of 9500 acres near Geelong.
(Batman died in 1839; by compari-
son with some earlier beneficiaries of
free grants in N.S.W., who did not
do as important pioneering-work, he
was probably shabbily treated.)
* * * *
As a returned soldier drawing full
war-pension and doing seasonal work
( approximately three to four months
yearly), am l taxable on such
earnings ?
Your war-pension is not taxable.
If you have included it as income on
your return, an amended return
should be sent to the Taxation
Department, boldly marked
“Amended Return,” with your war-
pension number quoted to facilitate
checking. The amount of your war-
pension must not be included on the
amended return. If your earnings
exceed £lO4 p.a., you are taxable on
them and must render an income-tax
return. They then fall into two
categories—(a) If earned as an
employee, your employer is obliged
to deduct, from your weekly pay,
tax at the rate applicable to your
gross weekly amount. Obviously, if
you work only three to four months
a year, you would be overtaxed at
the weekly rate and must render a
return in order to fix the rebate of
amount \ overtaxed, (b) If earned
as a sdlf-employed person—that is,
as a sub-contractor or from some
form of business —you must render
a return and the department will
assess you on those earnings for the
year in question; there will also be
included in the assessment a pro-
visional amount of tax for the
following year. (If you care to send
to us a copy of your 1953-54. return,
we will be in a position to give you
a specific ruling.)
* * * *
Some information on the fruit-fly
and its control?
The fruit-fly lays its eggs in the
fruit of apple, apricot, avocado,
banana, passionfruit, cherry, cumquat,
feijoa, fig, grapefruit, guava, jujube,
loquat, mandarin, mango, nectarine,
orange, peach, flowering-peach, pear,
persimmon, plum, quince, tomatoes
and chillies. Most active after the
end of December, the fruit-fly does
not lay eggs in blossoms or on young
fruit; ripening fruits are particularly
susceptible to its attack.. You are
required by law to (a) pick up and
destroy all fallen fruit at least twice
a week; ( b ) destroy by burning or
boiling all infested fruit, whether on
the tree or ground; (c) apply poison-
bait spray at least every week, com-
mencing five weeks prior to the
fruit’s maturing and continuing until
one month after harvest. The
suggested bait-spray mixture: Dis-
solve loz. tartar-emetic or sodium-
fluosilicate in lgal. water. Bottle,
cork and label this solution “Poison.”
To use, take 1 pint soln., add 1 pint
water and 2£oz. sugar. Splash pr
spray one-third pint on foliage in
parts of each tree (preferably every
second day). Home-gardeners may
use 2 teaspoonfuls D.D.T. emulsion
(20 p.c.), 1 teaspoonful nicotine-
sulphate (Blackleaf 40), 4oz. ‘sugar
and 4 pints water. Whatever mixture
used, it should be splashed on the
foliage with a whitewash-brush every
two or three days, applied particu-
larly on the underside of leaves.
(Infested fruit must not be placed in
garbage-tins. Fruit-inspectors make
periodical inspections in suburbs,
towns and districts to ensure that
control-measures are observed.)
* * * *
1 own land in the central-coastal
portion of Queensland, apparently
possessing the requirements for grow-
ing the litchi-tree, as briefly described
on the “Man on the Land” page (B.
11/1 / ’56). Some additional
information ?
Litchi-trees are best raised by
aerial-layering (marcotting). Trees
grown from seed do not reach full
maturity for about 15 years, and then
may be irregular in cropping-habits,
so seedling-method is unsatisfactory,
especially as the trees do not neces-
sarily reproduce characteristics of the
parent; and propagation by budding
or grafting has not proved successful
with the litchi. A newly-established
orchard requires close attention;
when young the trees tend to have a
weak root-system, which they
eventually outgrow. Fertile, alluvial
loams produce satisfactory crops, but
good trees also occur in many other
soil-types in North Queensland.
Ample moisture is essential, a humid
atmosphere desirable, and the trees
should not be subjected to frosts.
Because of the extensive but rather
shallow root-system, a mulch of
decaying vegetation is desirable to
prevent extremes of temperature in
the soil-surface. Pruning in the
young tree should be directed to the
formation of a shapely head in which
the branches are evenly-spaced to
allow all parts of the tree a reason-
able share of light and air. If the
early pruning is properly done, the
removal of large branches later on
should not be necessary, and annual
pruning should then be restricted to
shortening the fruit-bearing wood.
Kwai Mee and Wai Chee have been
the best varieties in Queensland, with
Haak Ip also satisfactory. “The
prospects for the litchi in Queens-
land,” says the “Queensland Agri-
cultural Journal,” “should be good,
for apart from the difficulty of
securing the plants in the first
instance, the tree is almost as easy
to grow as an orange.”
Brief Answers
B.S.: The pierced spade-guinea has
little value from a collector’s view-
point, as it is a damaged coin. Its
value as gold would be about
£3 10s. George IV crown (1822)
varies in value from about 15s. to
30s. according to condition. Con-
dition and rarity regulate the value
of coins. Age has no bearing on
coin-values M.G.: Your friend is
legally entitled to get a part-time job
in the evenings (a) unless there is
something in his agreement with his
employer which forbids it, ( b ) unless
he works under an award which
forbids people subject to it from
holding two jobs, or (c) unless he is
a public servant or employed by a
Government agency, in which case
he may be prevented by statute from
holding any other employment.
Other than in those circumstances
the law does not concern itself about
how long a man works or how many
jobs he takes... .R.J.S.M.: In the
absence of fuller details of the trans-
action by which “A” purchased land,
it is not possible to give full advice
on the matter. “A” may have an
action against the vendor for
damages, or he may have an action
against his solicitor for negligence
(if one acted for him on the pur-
chase); but in either case (if the
land is Government land) he must
comply with the requirement that
the house be removed unless he is
prepared to abandon it altogether.
Advisable to see a solicitor
L.G.G.: It may be possible for the
dispute between the neighbors to be
settled by their agreeing on some
individual, or group of individuals,
to arbitrate, whether formally or
informally. Other than this, no
device is known for settling the dis-
pute short of litigation..Inquirer:
Agricultural holdings are not strictly
subject to rent-pegging. An attempt
by a landlord to raise rents would
give the tenant grounds for having
the proper rent determined by an
agricultural committee, constituted
under the Agricultural Holdings Act
(1941). Where no written lease
exists between the parties, the tenancy
of an agricultural holding can be
terminated only by 12 months
notice, expiring on the anniversary
of the date upon which the tenancy
commenced —unless the agent has (a)
been guilty of a breach of the terms
of the letting, (6) failed to pay the
rent, (c) failed to farm the land in
accordance with the rules of good
husbandry, ( d) become bankrupt, or
(e) has brought himself within one of
the several other reasons of a notice
to quit C.H.R.: (1) There is no
pharmaceutical-benefits fund which
has a contributory arrangement with
the Commonwealth Government. (2)
Under the National Health Act, a
person who is receiving treatment by
a medical practitioner is entitled, in
accordance with the regulations, to
receive pharmaceutical benefits from
an approved pharmaceutical chemist
on presentation of a prescription
written by a medical practitioner.
(3) Copies of the Act and the
statutory rules may be purchased
from the Commonwealth Sub-
Treasury. The drugs and medicinal
preparations available as pharma-
ceutical benefits are given in the
schedules of the statutory rules. (4)
Only those drugs and medicinal
preparations the names or formulae
of which are prescribed and other
particulars of which are determined
by the Minister are available as
pharmaceutical benefits. A prescrip-
tion containing a non-benefit cannot
legally be accepted for payment by
the Commonwealth. (5) A medical
practitioner may, in a prescription,
direct that the supply of a pharma-
ceutical benefit be repeated a
specified number of times not
exceeding the number specified in the
schedules in relation to the particular
benefit. In special circumstances, the
director-general may authorise,
subject to such conditions as he
determines, a pharmaceutical benefit
to be prescribed by a medical
practitioner and to be supplied a
number of times greater than the
number of times otherwise allowed
by the regulations K.O’H.: From
the beginning of Shakspeare’s
“Henry IV (Part 2)” M.: Used
in that sense, “sideling” probably
means a strip of bordering-land or a
slope, a usage now obsolete.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.H.8.: Nothing new in your
swaggies and drovers S.K.S.: Not
a bad rooster... .C.P.: Can’t see any
redeeming point in “The Redeeming
Point” R.C.P.: Cricket poem
bowled for a duck... .V.F.: Not for
U5....W.J.M.: Poetry isn’t written
as easily as that... .RJ.T.: Verse
fearful, but you might do all right
in “Aboriginalities” paragraphs
M.R.: None quite up. Language
lacks originality and vitality
R.P.: The mopoke-cqpkoo story, if
true, would make a good par
M.M.: Better try the bowling-clubs.
E.McK.: A local paper—possibly
“Hansard” —should be delighted to
publish “Beautiful Canberra You
Shine Like a Star” A.E.D.: Room
for the last three heartrending
stanzas:
Before you took me for your wife
I lived a full and carefree life,
But now your words are like a knife
Full of bitterness and strife.
So as the daylight turns to njght
I beg of you to stop this fight,
Your voice is soaring like a kite,
I’m always wrong—you’re always right.
Farewell to you —I go to a friend,
A girl who lives by the river bend.
My heart is broken —can never mend —■
Your heart is stone —this is the end.
D.G.: Amateurish K.E.W.:
Three sunrises! D.J.M.: Your
ruthless realism rapidly rejected; but
we did like the line “I’m lousy as
a compost-heap” M-F.: Hardly
more than a technical experiment;
but interesting... .M.H.C.: Villanelle
positively villainous... .K.H.: You
haven’t a chance of publication....
K.A.McG.: A flight in an aeroplane,
yes; but hardly a ride on Pegasus.
P.R.E.: And very pleasant, too,
in its way, with a heigh and a ho and
a ho and a heigh M.D.: Don’t
be naughty... .C.T.: You don’t do
too badly with it, but in general
it’s wiser to leava eternity to Blake,
the angels, etc.. Swagman: If
you’ve really been swagging and cane-
cutting, tell us about it in plain
prose... .S.V.M.: Too slight, but try
again... .G.P.: Fair for your age.
Read the annual “Australian Poetry”
anthologies and come again when
you’re older... .L.C.: Come in and
tootle: —
M.G.B.: Some antiquated
stylisms in it, and an un-Australian
“gat”; but it came close....W.E.:
Well written, but it’s hard work these
days to infuse fresh life into the
sonnet... .C.W.P.: A book of
“Aboriginalities” paragraphs was
published years ago and has long
been out of print. Your
description of your “attempts” is
about right....L.D.W.: Even with
the beery ending we couldn’t swallow
it A.R.B.: “Song of Sydney’s
Summer” a washout T.F.: Poem
about the thrush that dreamed it was
a worm sounds either for or by the
very youthful; and, as such, pleasant.
A WARNING TO BACHELORS
Do I hear aright? Thou’rt being wed?
I’m sure my friend ’tis what you said.
Art taken sick within thy head?
Forsooth, I fear thou’rt good as dead.
Though I know thou’rt a decent hloke
Who loveth beer and liketh a joke,
If thou wouldst wear the marriage yoke
Then for thee my friend I abandon hope.
Canst picture thyself a few years hence?
Thy world encircled by a fence,
Naught in thy kick, save a few odd pence,
And less in thy scone, which groweth
dense.
Thou’rt aware that thy habits will
change, no doubt,
Thy methods of thinking will be
swapped about,
And thy virtues and vices become evened
out,
Whilst behind is authority thou darest
not flout.
And the friends with whom thou used to
roam
Won’t venture near thy married home
Of fragile glass and polished chrome,
Once thou signest the Registrar’s tome.
Ah? Verily ’tis a bachelor’s life
That’s bright and gay and free from
strife,
And a bachelor has to pay no tithe,
Well, excuse me, old man, here cometh
my wife.
B.J.H.: Never say we were blind
to the unique charm of
AUSTRALIA.
And all the World will know,
From the heat to the deep snow
Of this, our proudest dream,
Australia, the flower of the cream.
She stands above' all,
Long or short or tall,
This mistress of the same,
Not ruled by any other name.
In the days gone by,
Which cannot be lived without a sigh,
Australia is my country fair,
Of others do I‘damn care.
Australia, the country of my birth,
Of her will be much mirth,
Of her, the land of the free,
And let these others by grand decree
Cry war or social distinction,
Working in time to gradual extinction.
For from Gallipoli to Rabaul
Or even the “Dead March in Saul,*
Australia will cry come to me
And I will protect you and thee
From war, hate, ravage and give
Peace, protection and the will to live.
Nearly two centuries have passed
Since we were neatly grasped
By England. Who we praise,
Who in this maze
Of life throughout history
Created the eternal mystery
Of survival.
Others have written
Whilst they have been besmitten
With praise of whom I adore,
This land, need I say more.
Australia, land of the few
Who say, now is our cue
To stand upon our feet
And give away the sheepish bleat.
Today, on this our Anniversary,
Ring the bells, show the Flag, adversary
Beware of this our proudest dream,
Australia, the flower of the cream.


The idea of marking
and tailing lambs and
marking calves by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings was introduced
in Australia in 1947.
In that year a few
hundred stock owners
adopted the idea and
found that by using
the rings all the draw-
backs of the old
methods were over-
come. The number
of enthusiastic users
grew greater and
greater each subse-
quent year until today
Elastrator Rubber
Rings are used on
most large stations
and on thousands of
smaller properties
throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Pigs
Can be
A balanced mineral ration in feeding piga often
means good instead of poor returns. The best
source of feed minerals is Tri-Cal-Os Bone Flour
with guaranteed minimum content of 30%
phosphoric acid and 40 % lime. Tri-Cal-Os is
processed especially for maximum digestibility
and to ensure maximum production.
I
Os
OM.
fVOVJ*
BOH*
U 7.
A
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRUCALCIC PHOSPHATE
day parthalon gladly supplied—
Writ. to DAVIS GELATIN!: GAO. 80. J5*X
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 405*. MELBOURNE • GAO.
800 7IZf. ADELAIDE • GAO. So. 7SMC. BRISBANE
• GAO. 80. s*B. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MESQUITE
VARIOUS opinions have been
expressed in the “Man on
the Land” pages concerning
inesquite, or algaroba. Here in
W.A. the problem is still with
us, and some furthel: notes may
be of interest.
In the north-west, 1000 miles
from Perth, they are tackling the
problem with bulldozers. High-
powered crawler-tractors are
dragging heavy chains through
thickets of mesquite extending
over more than a thousand acres.
Mesquite is, of course, a big
problem in the United States. It
is now firmly established on 70-
million acres of range in Texas,
New Mexico and Arizona. It is
native to this territory, but
remained in a state of balance
with the other vegetation until
the advent of domestic livestock.
At least half the area has been
invaded since the grazing of
animals was commenced, and
this transformation has occurred
during the last 100 years.
Prior to its encroachment on
grassland, the plant was confined
to the valley-bottoms and water-
courses, and the uplands were
dominated by grasses. Now
much of the upland has shrubby
. vegetation with a big proportion
of mesquite.
No doubt a number of factors
have contributed to disturbing
the previous delicate balance
between grassland and woody
species. Those suggested include
natural biotic factors, such as
insects causing a reduced seed-
crop, cessation of recurrent
prairie-fires, drought, and graz-
ing by domestic animals. Besides
the effects of selective grazing,
animals undoubtedly cause
widespread distribution of seeds.
Seeds of mesquite have been
introduced to many countries,
but in most cases little more has
been heard of the plant. Hawaii
and Western Australia are
notable exceptions.
Father Bachelet planted seeds
of algaroba, or mesquite, near
the Catholic Cathedral at
Honolulu in 1828. The one
seedling that appeared grew
rapidly into a large tree, and
the seeds were carried by cattle
to the barren hillsides of extinct
craters and also to elevated
coral-beds. Here the plants
thrived, and soon the accidental
distribution was supplemented by
systematic plantings, from which
thousands of tons of pods for
cattle-food were obtained.
In comparing Hawaiian
experience with that of other
countries, several aspects must be
kept in mind. Much of the land
carried little or no herbage pre-
viously, cheap labor was avail-
able for gathering the pods, and
the species or variety of mesquite
being grown may not be the
pest-type of other lands.
It is known that seeds of mes-
quite were brought to Western
Australia about 25 years ago,
and doubtless there had been
introductions prior to that time.
The seeds were reputedly those
of a spineless type, and were
planted in a number of towns in
the north-west and on many
station properties, particularly
with a view to providing shade
and shelter, and also, among
pastoralists, for the nutritious
pods.
In many cases difficulty was
experienced in raising the plants,
but they were established in a
number of localities. It was
soon found that, although some
of the trees were innocuous, or
had only small spines, others
were heavily armed with thorns
of more than 3in. in length.
At first the plants showed
little tendency to spread, remain-
ing restricted td favorable condi-
tions, such as around mills, in
gullies, and in the vicinity of
homesteads, where some water-
ing was carried out. The first
major spread followed the wet-
season of 1945, when, in con-
formity with the American
pattern, plants appeared on
relatively high ground some
distance from waterways.
In subsequent dry-seasons the
spread was restricted, but the
plants showed no tendency to
recede, and further migration
occurred in favorable seasons.
By 1954 on one pastoral pro-
perty between Onslow and Roe-
bourne mesqusite spread over
more than 30 square-miles, of
which about four square-miles
had reached thicket-formation.
This infestation originated
from a few trees at the home-
stead and some plantings at
mills. During the same period
plants spread naturally for
several miles from peaces where
they had been planted in towns,
and a number of thickets formed.
This explosive type of distribu-
tion, after periods of quiescence,
is a dangerous characteristic.
Mesquite is only likely to
become aggressive where there is
summer rainfall. It has been
introduced to other States, but,
so far, has not shown the strong
weed-tendencies it has displayed
in Western Australia. Authorities
in other parts of Australia, how-
ever, are aware of our experience
and are not taking liberties with
this plant.
Among mesquite’s desirable
features, the timber has been
used in America for both fuel
and posts (although in recent
years the value for these pur-
poses has declined), and the
pods contain a high proportion
of sugar and protein, and are
relished by stock.
In Hawaii many thousands of
tons are gathered annually and
ground into meal for livestock.
Although the foliage is often
sparse, mesquite has been used
for shade and shelter where more
umbrageous trees will not grow,
and apiculturists regard it as a
valuable source of honey.
Why are we concerned about
the spread of a plant having all
these attributes? American
agriculturists have advanced a
number of important reasons.
Mesquite, even where grazed
moderately, is still persistently
increasing, both by invading
open grassland and by thicken-
ing of old stands.
Cutting mesquite usually
results in an impenetrable thicket
of regrowth and seedlings, giving
rise to jungles and causing
grazing to be abandoned.
Livestock-handling costs are
increased, especially in dense
thickets where it is difficult to
muster animals.
A reduction in the quantity
and quality of perennial grass-
forage, with a corresponding
reduction in livestock-produc-
tion, are associated with in-
creases in mesquite.
More serious, from the long-
term viewpoint, are accelerated
erosion, and, where cattle have
been forced to subsist chiefly on
mesquite-beans and -leaves, im-
paction.
In W.A. dense thickets prevent
mustering, and prolific growth
near windmills acts as a shield,
preventing the pumping of water.
Thorns injure the hoofs of
animals, and have punctured
many tyres.
Besides supplanting mulgas
and other valuable forage-shrubs,
the surface-roots compete
strongly with grasses, which
soon disappear from around the
trees. Mesquite can cause a
rapid deterioration in grazing-
value. If allowed to progress un-
checked it could impair the pro-
ductivity of millions of acres in
the northern parts of W.A., as it
has already done in the southern
parts of the U.S.
But it is one of the few trees
that townspeople have been able
to establish for shade and
shelter under the hot, dry con-
ditions of the north-west. It is
understandable that those who
do not appreciate its significance
to the pastoral-industry are loath
to destroy it. However, several
other trees, without mesquite’s
bad habits, can be grown in
this country, such as athel
tamarisk ( Tamarisk aphylla),
kurrajong < Brachychiton spp.),
river-gum ( Eucalyptus camal-
dulensis) and various palms. The
athel tamarisk can be propa-
gated from cuttings, grows
rapidly and provides dense
shelter from winds.
It is likely, too, that in some
localities carob-bean ( Ceratonia
siliqua), pepper-tree ( Schinus
molle), sheoaks (i Casuarina spp.),
flame-trees ( Erythrina spp.) and
cape-lilac ( Melia azedarach)
would also grow.
Mesquite is well adapted for
survival. Large numbers of
seeds are produced, and these
may retain their vitality for
many years. They are not
readily digested by animals, and
cattle have been responsible for
much of the spread of mesquite.
The plant has extensive rooting-
system, and the initial rapid
growth of the taproot is a
characteristic of many drought-
resisting plants.
At the base of the stem, where
it joins the main root, is a
dormant bud-zone often extend-
ing 6in. to Bin. below ground-
level. If the upper portion of
the plant is removed or severely
damaged, these buds become
active, producing a number of
shoots which grow rapidly.
There is similar reaction if
the roots are disturbed, but only
partially removed from the
ground. Therefore, any control-
measures, particularly mechani-
cal methods, must be carried out
systematically and thoroughly.
When only a few trees are
concerned they can be destroyed
by grubbing. Spraying the
lower 2ft. to 3ft. of the trunk
with diesolene containing the
hormonelike chemical 2,4,5-T
has also proved effective.
These methods, however, are
not practicable for the large
thicket areas, and trials have
been undertaken with the appli-
cation of chemicals by means of
aircraft. Although some treat-
ments caused all the trees to
lose their leaves, the high pro-
portion of recovery did not
warrant persevering with this
method.
As chemicals have not proved
effective for the thicket areas, a
mechanical programme with
chaining as the initial step has
been commenced. Following
the chaining, tractors will be
fitted with heavy rakes to sweep
the trash into windrows. When
this is dry it will be burnt and
every effort made to encourage
buffel-grass and other desirable
grasses on the area.
Regrowth from stumps, along
with seedlings, must be expected,
and further measures will be
necessary. These will include
controlled burning and the use
of chemicals, particularly the
2,4,5-T type of hormonelike
herbicide.
PROSOPIS.
Berry Show
The Berry Show is unique for
the N.S.W. South Coast in that
officially-registered cattle are the
only ones allowed to enter.
Although this keeps the standard
high and attracts a large crowd,
it means that the farmer without
pedigree-stock, but keen to
improve his herd, has no chance
to compete. This defeats one
of the main objectives of a show
—to encourage farmers to
improve.
The two special production-
and-type prizes were of interest
because they demonstrated, with
purely local cattle, exactly what
can be done by breeding for pro-
duction and type. The first was
the John Darling prize for the
supreme champion dairy-cow:
100 points for type and one
point for every 501 b. of milk
above the basic 12,0001 b., all
milk brought to the 4 per cent,
fat-corrected value by the Gaines
formula.
The winner was the famous
A.I.S. cow, Berry Mathilda 23rd,
with 137.56 points for produc-
tion (18,8781 b. milk) and 90
points for type. This cow is
owned by the Berry Welfare
Training Farm, so the prize-
money looks like ending-up in
Consolidated Revenue.
The second cow was F. A.
Mclntosh’s Ayrshire Woodside
Park Grace 2nd, with 92 points
for production and 90 points
for type. Woodside Park Judy’s
Own came third, with V- J-
Lamond’s Brundee Ellowgowan
fourth.
An interesting point here is
that we have three breeds repre-
sented by their highest-producing
cows at the show, and yet none
of them gained a champion or
reserve-champion ribbon. But,
in hard cash, these cows must
have earned more for their
owners than have the cows that
won the highly-regarded red-
white - and - blue championship-
ribbon.
The second special prize was
the A. N. Binks Memorial pro-
duction prize for a group of
three cows. The conditions of
judging were 100 points for type
(max.) and 100 points (max.)
for production, on the basis of
one point for every 1001 b. of
milk above age-standard of the
cow, all milk at the 4 per cent,
fat-corrected value.
This prize was won by F. A.
Mclntosh’s team of three cows,
which won the two special prizes
at Kiama the week before. The
second prize went to the A.I.S.
team entered by the Berry Wel-
fare Training Farm, and the
third prize to the Cheggwidden
Estate’s Jersey team.
The A.I.S. team was unlucky
not to win, as its top cow, Berry
Matilda 23rd, gained maximum
points for production.
In the general judging, the five


LAND
O L If M N
PT*. LTD.
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
Reading the Bunyip Level.
buttons pressed ii
Atmosphere
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to- determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
' 4 M
VP'H.
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out erf adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Pill in Coupon and send to ns for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEE.
NAME
ADDRESS
* ••'••••
6898
"The FARMERS' BOY"
SERIES “II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
world -
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
M
AT*
<Q
JO
t
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you’-
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’IiAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
DONT BUY
A NEW COOKER
until you’ve checked the extra value of AGA
A new Cooker is perhaps the most important
purchase you ever make for a home. You need to
be absolutely certain that the model you select will
prove the best investments What makes AGA a
better investment? This. The AGA is the ultimate
in cooking appliances—it costs less to own than
any other—in time it will pay for itself in fuel
savings.
If you can’t see AGA demonstrated, fill in the
coupon below and we’ll post you a booklet giving
you all the facts.
HERE ARE JUST A FEW REASONS
WHY AGA OFFERS BETTER VALUE:—
•It’s the world’s most economical cooker—it
cannot bum more than the guaranteed small
amount of fuel.
•You can cook for 2 or 10 at the same low cost.
♦Provides, at no extra cost, constant 50 gallon
supply of hot water. You enjoy ample hot water
for the laundry, bathroom and kitchen.
♦Ready for instant use 24 hours a day—never
goes out.
♦The CB model has two ovens—one for roasting
—one for simmering. Both thermostatically
controlled.
♦Even oven heat guarantees fine cooking—just
like a baker’s oven. You can go out for die day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
♦AGA-CB has simmering and boiling hot plates.
Boiling plate boils four pints of water in four
minutes.
♦Better insulated than any other cooker. Keeps
kitchen warmer in Winter and cooler in Summer.
♦Children can’t burn themselves by leaning on it.
♦ 10 years’ guarantee means that actually you get
a lifetime of service from your AGA.
♦Easy terms are available and fuel savings pro-
vide a substantial part of your payments.
♦lncluded in the price of the AGA is a wonderful
set of cooking utensils specially machine-based.
LEVIN 8c CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
It 3 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET ft ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
SO WILLIAM ST.. PERTH
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details
free and without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
_l SB/2
£153
breeds were well represented,
and some excellent fields were
paraded. However,, the main
exhibitors were the same as at
earlier South Coast shows, and
there were no outstanding
reversals.
While it may be difficult for a
young farmer to get a start
through the Berry Show, the
district itself is full of oppor-
tunities. There is, for instance,
the A.I. centre at Berry, recently
taken over by the Milk Board,
which should show great benefit
from the extra finance now
available. There is, too, the
Berry Better Farming League,
an institution which other dis-
tricts could well copy.
This league runs farm-compe-
titions and organises local lec-
tures, as well as getting most of
the leading overseas experts who
visit this country to come down
and lecture in the town.
Generally, it fills a very import-
ant place in the improvement of
local farming. A lot of the
credit for the success of this
organisation belongs to F. A.
Mclntosh, of Woodside Park,
one of Australia’s most outstand-
ing studmen and dairyfarmers.
John Bridges.
High-rainfall Fodder
“Lambo”: In view of Vic-
toria’s recent rain-spoiled fodder-
harvest, the Beltsville (U.S.A.)
finding that “in climates where
rain occurs frequently during the
hay-harvest it is to the farmer’s
advantage to harvest his fodder
as silage, rather than as field-
cured hay,” has special signifi-
cance.
In the U.S. experiments more
nutrients were preserved by
making silage than by field-
curing, even when the weather
was favorable for field-curing.
Silage proved to be a more
efficient way of preserving the
nutrients, and when fed to dairy-
cattle it produced milk of higher
nutritzive-value because of its
higher carotene and vitamin-A
content.
Losses were lowest in small
tower-silos, but lined trench-
silos were nearly as good, as well
a providing cheap storage-space
and ease of filling and emptying.
U.S.A. research-workers state
that baled hay should be stored
on edge, with the bales as tightly
as possible together. A large
canvas-cover results in better
drying of the top and outside
bales.
Super, and Footrot
“Esteban”: Landholders who
do not use superphosphate
because they fear it will bring
footrot into their sheep-flocks
are barking up the wrong tree.
Despite super, and improved-
pastures, footrot can never occur
unless the germ is in the pasture
or already in the flock. By failing
to topdress, owners are merely
depriving their sheep of feed and
themselves of much more money
. than the cost of the fertiliser.
This attitude of some sheep-
owners is like the dairyfarmer
who said at a meeting, “Since
giving up topdressing, I’ve had
no mastitis in my herd, no abor-
tion, no . internal parasites
and . . .” While he paused for
breath, someone added for him,
“no grass.”
Burning Stumps
“W.C.Q.”: Years back we
burned-out old dry stumps and
trees in canefields in this way:
After the ratoon-cane was
ploughed-out in early summer
the soil-loaded stools were carted
to the trees. Then the trees
were dug around to expose the
side-roots to about 2ft. away
from the trunk, and the soil
cleared from the trunk to 2ft %
deep.
The trench was packed with
plenty of thick wood and a fire
started. When this was burning
well the stools were packed on
firmly, and this topping-up con-
tinued for a day or two as the
bottom stools crumbled- The
method soon brought the trees
down. Sods of earth and grass
could be used in the absence of
cane-stools.
Transporting Bees
“Big Billy”: Bees need care-
ful handling if it is intended to
transport them any distance.
Hives should be closed-up
only after the bees have finished
flying, or on cool, wet days
when there are no bees in the
field; their condition should be
closely watched during any
warm weather.
Migratory covers, now widely
used by apiarists, have ventila-
tion-holes at either end, and
these facilitate the watering of
the bees before they are loaded
on the vehicle.
If a long distance is to be
travelled, a supplementary
water-ration —about a cupful
for each hive —should be given
after the hives have been
closed-up. A knapsack-spray is
very useful for this purpose if
many bees are to be moved.
No time should be lost in
loading the vehicle, and, once
on the road, it should not be
stopped. If a short stop must
be made, keep the motor run-
ning to maintain sufficient vibra-
tion to prevent the bees from
breaking cluster. If the day
turns out hot the load should be
hosed-down quickly during
these stops, or doused with a
few bucketfuls of water. On
arrival, release the hives as soon
as possible.
Best time to move bees is at
night: then, if there is a
mechanical breakdown, there is
less likelihood of harm to the
hives.
Proteins and Health
“Thilly”: In Australia, pro-
tein-rich soils are currently
associated with better-quality
grain and better meat-produc-
tion ; United States experiments
now show proteins to be signifi-
cant factors also in plant- and
animal-health, in production and
reproduction.
Dr. W. A. Albrecht, world
authority on soils, points out
that plants on high protein-
producing soils develop resist-
ance to fungal diseases such as
“damping-off,” and attacks
from insects. Wild animals
gather their “medicines” from
different plant species and
among plants of the same
species according to the fertility
of the soils which grow them.
In experiments, lambs fed
protein-rich hay gained twice
as much weight as lambs on
poor hay. Wool-quantity and
-quality were much better, and,
most significantly, ewe-lambs
brought up on poor-quality hay
failed to mate, while those on
protein-rich hay produced a
good crop of lambs.
Experiments with male rabbits
showed a loss of potency when
on poor-quality hay.
Farm Hints
“Quo Vadis”: Used tea-
leaves in solution will remove
rust from iron- or steel-bolts
and nuts, washers, etc. Immerse
the rusty parts for 48 hours,
then rinse clean in running-
water.
“W.”: No fixed rule can be
laid down concerning the possi-
bilities of attacks by fruit-fly.
Use lure-traps before the fruit is
due to mature —they indicate
whether sprays are needed or
not.
“Aqua”: The wearing-quality
of concrete is controlled by the
amount of water used for each
bag of cement. The recom-
mended amount is sgals. water
to one bag of cement, used with
average-wet sand. Best mixture
seems to be three parts crushed-
rock and two-and-a-half parts
sand to one part cement; trial
batches can be made using more
sand and less rock to suit any
particular job.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/2/’56)
Reasonably good rains should continue on the north
coast of Queensland during March, but elsewhere in the State
rainfall should vary from light to moderate, with deficient
rainfall in the southern mid-interior and south-west.
The N.S.W. coast should receive moderate rain during
March, with heavier falls on the southern tablelands. The
balance of the tablelands and portion of the s.-w. slopes
should receive light to moderate rains; poor elsewhere.
Moderately good rains are likely in the southern half
of Victoria, with the Mallee, Wimmera and north-country
confined to light rain.
Apart from moderate falls in the east-central and
upper-south-east, South . Australia should receive mainly
light rain during March.
Good rains should extend from the Kimberleys of
Western Australia to the goldfields areas, with good falls
on the south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Inflation
We poor blighters on fixed incomes
are wondering where to look for this
“unparalleled prosperity.” Inflation is
steadily growing ; our sterling reserves are
dwindling; and our overseas-trading
account is becoming unbalanced because
we are buying far more goods than we
are selling.
We have full employment, and revel in
it. But full employment means that we
have no reserve of labor, and this, in turn,
leads to demands for higher wages, which
are seldom resisted. Yet the more money
that goes into the pay-packet, the more
is spent, and the old spectre of too many
people chasing too few goods looms
larger and larger.
When the higher wages have produced
higher prices, these lead to fresh wage-
demands, and we are back to the spiral
of inflation. The process goes crazily on.
No sooner has a claim for higher wages
been met than the successful union pre-
pares for its next offensive.
Only two things can halt this mad
progress. One would be a serious re-
cession in trade, which already looms on
the skyline. The other would be the
realisation that a trade-union official is
not necessarily neglecting his job if he
does not always have a claim for higher
wages on the stocks. Sooner or later these
things will have to be faced if we are to
avoid the risk of an economic catas-
trophe which will overwhelm not only full
employment but the wonderful Welfare
State also. — Samzac (N.S.W.).
Cars for Asia
In B. 28/12/’55 “A.J.H.” says that
“only the fact that we have something
special to sell will move Asia to take
from us any more than it is forced to take
in payment for the few commodities it
sends here.” Why not consider the
motor-car?
The motor-industry is already our
greatest, and will, in time, saturate the
local market, with surplus production
to be disposed of elsewhere. We need
only to speed the process.
New Zealand welcomes the small
token-shipments of Holdens, which keep
the name in the public mind, but serve
, little other purpose at present. Similar
token-shipments were to go to Asia also,
but the programme was scrapped in face
of local demand.
Notwithstanding forecasts of accele-
rated progress in Asia, prospects are
bright for motor-vehicles in Asian
markets. An overseas estimate sets the
"I interviewed that deep-sea diver."
number of vehicles needed to raise the
Asian average to the world-level of one
vehicle for every 40-head of population
at close to 10-million. Australia would
not be overoptimistic in hoping to sell a
few thousand cars a year in a market
where freight and competition are on our
side.
Asian assembly - figures are not
available, but vehicles per head of popu-
lation in Ceylon and Hong Kong have
risen above the overall Asian average of
1:2000 to 1:190. As a whole, Asian car-
figures have increased by half and com-
mercial-vehicle figures more than trebled
since 1938.
An estimated vehicle-life -of 10 years
sets Asia buying at 65,000 vehicles per
year for replacements alone. A 10-per-
cent. yearly increase would boost this
figure to 100,000 within five years.
Someone meets this demand, but not at
prices discouraging to Australia.
Australia’s main concern appears to be
local costs, and the Holden is the only
indication. The facts on which to judge
are that the Holden sells at a price more
than competitive with that of a com-
parable imported car (whether imported
complete or c.k.d.) and that G.M.-H.
profits are a trifle high. Drastic pruning
of costs should not be necessary to meet
competition in markets geographically
favoring Australia, and where no car is
sold at a notably low price—J. B. M.
(Vic.).
Seddon
Despite M. H. Ellis (B. 11/l/’56), Dick
Seddon was a great statesman, and New
Zealand’s greatest era of sound prosperity
extended from 1851 to 1912 under those
three great Liberal leaders, Ballance,
Seddon and Ward.
Their beneficial enactments —Crown-
lease tenures, advances to workers,
advances to settlers, old-age pensions,
arbitration and the cutting-up of big
estates —received world-wide commenda-
tion. \
The Crown-land leasehold-tenure, for
instance, was universally recognised as
the best land-tenure of any country in
the world. A rental of 4} per cent, on
the prairie-value of the Crown land gave
an impetus to land-settlement that even-
tually made Maoriland one of the greatest
producers of butterfat, beef and wool.
Seddon’s educational qualifications
compared favorably with those of the
average New Zealander or Australian.
And he was a great orator, even if he was
ungrammatical at times. We all are.
When the Liberals went out of power
in 1912 the total debt, national and local,
was only £lOO million, or £lOO per head.
Sixteen years later —after the end of
the Reformers —the total debt was £328
million. —C. S. (N.Z.).
Women Agricultural Students
Some women have been very successful
in running a farm or station. An N.S.W.
example is Jocelyn Henderson, well-
known for her work in encouraging tree-
planting, and in calling attention to the
menace of erosion before many people
knew it existed. When the station owned
by her family at Upper Wantagong was
sold she bought a run-down property at
Robertson, on the South Coast, and has
turned it into a model farm.
Another example is Nancy Robertson,
who inherited a sheep-property at
Lyndoch (S.A.). Among other improve-
ments, she originated a new layout for
shearing-sheds which was written-up in
agricultural papers and has since been
widely copied.
Yet any young woman who wishes to
manage her own farm or station must
do so without the benefit of a course at
an Australian agricultural college! None
of these institutions will have women-
students.
On a trip through northern Victoria
I met a girl who does much of the
outside work on a well-known property.
She said she had applied for admission
to all our agricultural colleges, to be told
she would have to go to one in England
or to the Massey College in New
Zealand to a diploma. Many other
girls have received similar rebuffs.
The only reason I can discover for this
ban on women-students is that their
presence “would unsettle the men taking
courses there.” That’s as absurd and as
out-of-date as the idea that women work-
ing in offices would “unsettle” the male
clerks.
The case for admitting earnest and
capable young women to at least one
“Tonight's concert will now he broadcast in two parts"
Australian agricultural college could well
be taken up by the Country Women’s
Association. —Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Rosny Point
Despite protests by those who claimed
that Rosny Point should be preserved for
posterity as a natural reservation, Tas-
manian Premier Cosgrove went ahead
with plans to sell 70 blocks of land on
this Government-owned area on the
eastern shores of the River Derwent,
commanding one of the best panoramic
views of Hobart.
The Premier claimed that ample pro-
vision was being made for parks and
recreational areas around the foreshores
and above the 200 ft. contour of the
Point, and other proponents forecast that
Rosny would become the Point Piper of
the South. At the auction, attended by
about 1000 people, the 70 blocks sold in
as many minutes, highest price being
£l2OO for one waterfront block.
Whatever damage posterity may have
suffered, the coffers of the State Treasury
did all right.—G. M. (Tas.).
Leaying-certificate English
A disconcerting feature of the 1955
Leaving Certificate (N.S.W.) results was
the sharp decline in the standard of
English passes. Of those who passed in
English in 1949, 35 per cent, received
A’s or honors. Percentages for the years
before that were substantially the same,
but in 1955 only the best of schools
approached that figure, and the average
would appear to be round 16 to 18 per
cent. The percentage of passes to
number of candidates is not available,
but it is probably following the same
pattern, and would be less than the 79.6
per cent, of 1949.
The English course for the L.C. is a
good one, and the papers set are gener-
ally such as will allow the average
student to pass and the brighter one to
gain an A or better ; the 1955 paper was
no exception. Investigation would need
to start in the classroom.
Teachers of English are not regarded
as specialists—that is, a teacher who is
not a specialist in some other subject,
such as language, science or maths, is put
on to the teaching of English. No
teacher would be given French or
physics to teach unless he had a back-
ground in the subject giving him the
necessary qualifications, yet everyone is
considered qualified to teach English.
That is the first weakness. The subject
is considered important enough to be
made compulsory for the L.C. and the
matric., but not important enough to
warrant specialist teachers.
Half the exam, in English is set on
literary appreciation of a critical nature
and the other half is known as expres-
sion, which in itself involves a critical
approach to literature. ( Students must
have a literary background, but how can
they when they are being taught by
teachers who have themselves forgotten
how to read? The staffing of the
English department needs revision; it
must cease to be the dumping-ground for
those who are not qualified to teach other
subjects.
The other weakness is more difficult
to overcome, and is defeating the ablest
and most experienced teachers. It is the
question of children’s reading. The lack
of literary background among senior
secondary pupils today may be ascribed
directly to this era of comic-looking.
Children are not reading, and this is being
reflected in the English results.
It is to be hoped there will be no
lowering of the standard required for a
pass. One of the aims of the English
course throughout the five years of
secondary school is to encourage read-
ing. It is not succeeding at present.
When, however, L.C. candidates realise
that they cannot pass this essential
subject without reading they might get
down to it. — Wackford (N.S.W.).
Britain and Australia
With Australia and Britain in the same
boat on the “balance-of-payments” ocean,
a drastic review of Commonwealth trade
is indicated. Australia is the U.K.’s
best customer for many industrial pro-
ducts, notably vehicles of all kinds, yet
we have reached the stage where we
cannot afford to buy many of them.
Similarly, Britain is finding it necessary to
limit its imports, and some Australian
products will be short of a market.
This state of affairs in Britain has not
come about suddenly. It has built-up
over 150 years. With the industrial
revolution, the controllers of England s
purse-strings gambled on the transfer of
their capital from an agrarian economy
to an industrial one. In this connection
it must be remembered that the British
farmer is the world’s most progressive,
and that Britain produces as much beer
as Australia does.
It is becoming increasingly evident that
this gamble has failed. Britain’s pre-
eminence as an industrial nation has
been challenged successfully by the
United States and is now being challenged,
for the second time, by Germany and
Japan.
Britain’s industries should be trans-
ferred to the healthier climate of Aus-
tralia, far from the atomic melting-pot
of Europe. This would give the Old
Country a chance to develop its agricul-
ture to the full, while British industries
would gain a new vigor in a land where
unlimited natural resources need only the
capital for their development.
It’s not such a wild dream. The glory
that was Spain is no more, but Brazil has
become a great country, based on me
initiative of those Iberians who saw pa
there was little scope for the ambitious
in the Old World* — Burr Imul (SA.).


Dr. Coombs
The obvious answer to “C.B.M.’s”
query (B. 11/1 / ’56) regarding Dr.
Coombs’s reappointment is that he has
the confidence of the Menzies Govern-
ment, just as he had the confidence of
the Chifley Government. And rightly so.
His administration of the Commonwealth
Bank has been sound and cautious.
As for the accusation that he is a
Socialist by learning and background —
rubbish! He took his Bachelor degree at
Perth University and his Ph.D. (in
Economics) at London University —is
that a Socialist programme? And what
was so Socialistic about his background
in W.A.?
“C.8.M.” implies that banking-policy
(the nationalisation scheme, for example)
is determined by Dr. Coombs. It isn’t. He
implements and administers the policy of
the Government of the day, and in so
doing he does not become a Socialist, or
for that matter a Liberal. —R. A. Cotton
(W.A.).
Trees
Although we have become more tree-
conscious in recent years it is largely the
result of propaganda, rather than the
awakening of a real love of trees. Why,
otherwise, do so many councils, organisa-
tions and individuals lose interest in the
trees they plant in a flush of enthusiasm?
Too many country towns forget, after a
few months, the fine idea they had of
transforming their roads-of-access into
avenues. One enters these towns between
files of dead or dying saplings and
smashed tree-guards. Here and there a
tree tougher than most, or fortunate in
having been planted in a moist spot, is
flourishing—a witness to the avenue that
might have been had the trees been
nursed carefully through their initial
years.
Electricity- and telephone-reticulation,
the greatest enemies of established trees,
are inevitable if we are to have comfort
and convenience, but one sees too many
instances where a little thought, or a
minor deviation of the line, would have
taken the wires clear of the trees. To
clear the road and power-lines, many an
old pepperina in our country towns has
been cropped top and bottom, into the
shape of a giant green mushroom. An
avenue so trimmed is not unattractive. —
Thinkit (N.S.W.).
Children and Books
While I agree with much that “Eighty
Seven” says regarding “testing material.”
and “statistical tomfoolery” in education
(B. 25/1/’56), my experience with
children and books has been different.
I have worked for some time in one
of the largest bookshops in Australia,
and have been pleasantly surprised by the
large amount of reading done by boys
and girls today. Hundreds of boys and
girls of school-age, from State schools,
technical schools and the private
colleges, come regularly into the shop
and spend hours browsing among the best
of the latest books, as well as among
the classics of earlier literature. And
these intelligent adolescents buy books,
even though they have an excellent
municipal library, a children’s public
library and a large number of school-
and college-libraries.
It would surprise “Eighty Seven” if he
knew how many Penguin editions are
sold to boys and girls—and Penguins
cover a very wide field in fiction, art,
literature, history, classics, etc.
Of course, nobody can make children
(ot any age) readers. Reading for
enjoyment is something that comes to one
in childhood, and if a child, while very
young, does not acquire this faculty, all
the lecturing in the world will not give
it io him. A love of reading may be
taught and encouraged, but unless (and
until) the child has the feeling that
books are real friends, he will not get
much enjoyment from reading.
Children can be guided by wise parents
and/or teachers as to what is good
reading, but individual tastes are so many
and so varied that even this does not
accomplish much. A child who loves
reading is his own best “guide” as to
what is good reading (for him).
The error into which “Eighty Seven”
falls traps'many reformers —they deal in
generalities, ignoring the enormous per-
centage of particular cases. — Sybil
(Vic.).
Explosive Bullets
The explosive-bullet invented by Pop
Pomeroy, the Melbourne piecart-owner,
was used in World War I, not World
War II (B. 25/1/’56). The British
"I wish Flying-Officer Prangborn Would cut out the aerobatics .”
wanted a bullet that would bring down
raiding Zeppelins by setting fire to the
hydrogen-gas which buoyed them up.
Scientists had failed to devise such a
missile, and Pomeroy told the War Office
he had what they wanted. Samples of
his idea proved to be only .303 bullets
with holes drilled in their points and
plugged with a small piece of gelignite.
“No good,” said the experts. “They’d
explode only if they hit something solid.”
Pop told them they were wrong, and
insisted that they try one.
It -was fired at a petrol-soaked rag
hung on a stick, and, to the amazement
of everyone except Pomeroy, the rag
flashed into flame. The piecart-
proprietor had hit on something the
scientists had overlooked: the rush
through the air compressed the gelignite,
causing it to throw out a fine spray of
nitro-glycerine, and friction with the cloth
caused that notoriously touchy liquid to
explode.
Before that, bullets fired by fighter-
planes at Zeppelins had only punched
small holes through the gas-bags and
none of the raiders had failed to reach
home safely, but the first time a Zep.
stopped a burst of Pomeroy bullets the
hydrogen caught fire and the dirigible
burned with a flare which lit the night
sky like day. Other Zeps. suffered the
same fate, and that was the end of the
dirigible as a raider.
Pomeroy, paid several thousands for
his idea, was soon back selling pies again.
He was supposed to have invented a new
type of tracer-bullet for use in World
War 11, but I never saw a sample of it.
In any case, the incendiary bullets used
in 1939-45 were efficient enough for
anyone.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
State Shopping-centres
I was interested to hear that the
Victorian Housing Commission has
planned a nine-acre shopping-centre at
Heidelberg, about seven miles from Mel-
bourne, in conjunction with its big
housing-project in that area.
I recently visited a smaller shopping-
centre established some years back in
another Housing Commission area. It
was well laid-out, with ample space to
park cars between the main-road and the
shops, which were set well back from the
traffic-line. I saw it on a Saturday morn-
ing—not a single car was parked there
and only a few people drifted around the
practically deserted shops.
I commented to my wife on the dull-
ness of trade at what should have been
the busiest period of the week. Then
we drove half-a-mile to the sprawling,
unplanned shopping-centre near the local
railway-station. It was almost impossible
to find parking-space, the shops were
chock-full of customers, and a jostling
crowd paraded up and down the foot-
path. Many of the shops had only
recently been built, but all were doing a
thriving trade, in contrast to the moribund
commerce of the Housing Commission’s
centre.
The reason for the difference? The
commission’s little centre was carefully
planned to provide one shop, and only
one, for each branch of commerce —one
butcher, one grocer, one greengrocer and
so on. Naturally the local residents
preferred to drive or walk half-a-mile
to the shopping-centre which had “just
growed” under the stimulus of private
enterprise, where competition was keen
and the customer had considerable
choice.
I hope the commission’s new venture
will be underplanned rather than laid-out
to the last detail; that it will allow for
the natural growth of private enterprise
and for healthy competition between the
various shops. Otherwise it is doomed
to commercial failure. Wusslean
(Vic.).
Mortgaging the Mortgage
The Prime Minister’s attempt last year
to gain the co-operation of the hire-pur-
chase boys seems to have had a mixed
response. A city firm has been adver-
tising to this effect: “Can’t afford a
holiday? Then trade-in your old refrig-
erator on a new Nonesuch. If the trade-
in value of your used machine is £l2O
we will accept £2O of its trade-in value
as a deposit on a new machine and pay
you the balance of £lOO in cash.”
Which doesn’t sound bad until you
read on, in effect: “Don’t worry if you
haven’t paid off the old unit; we will pay
it off for you.”
In other words, the customer is en-
couraged to pawn a refrigerator he doesn’t
own to pay for a holiday, or other luxury,
he can’t afford. — Burr Imul (S.A.).
The Victoria Cross
“Ek Dum’s” comments on the Victoria
Cross (B. 19/1/’56) remind me that it
was once very Closely copied. During
the Maori war (1861-68) the New
Zealand Government decided to award
a separate decoration for military
heroism. According to records in the
N.Z. Defence Department library, a
design was approved by the Governor,
Sir George Bowen, and by an Order in
Council the New Zealand Cross was
instituted. It is recorded that Queen
Victoria signified her interest, and the
new decoration was made ready for issue.
In general, the design of the Victoria
Cross was copied. It was the same size,
but of silver instead of bronze. The
wreath, with the words “For Valour,”
was omitted, and instead of the lion
standing on a crown in the centre there
was a circular gold disk, surrounded by
a wreath. The ribbon was purple, instead
of crimson as with the V.C., and was
attached by passing through a ring, not
fastened to a bar.
The originating Order in Council said
the New Zealand Cross was to rank
next to the Victoria Cross, it could only
be conferred by the Governor, and was
to be awarded for “a signal act of valor
or devotion to duty or the performance
of any intrepid action in public service...
in making the award the only merit is
conspicuous bravery.”
Eventually 23 awards of the New
Zealand Cross were made, the last surviv-
ing holder being Benjamin Biddle, who
died near Whakatane in 1933 at the
age of 90.
In a large collection of medals in the
Victoria and Albert Museum in London
I saw two New Zealand Crosses. With
them was a printed card which stated that
the new decoration did not receive Queen
Victoria’s approval, and that she
expressed her displeasure at the apparent
imitation of the Victoria Cross. Con-
sequently it was never awarded after the
Maori war.
As a side-issue, the English Govern-
ment issued the New Zealand Medal for
service in the Maori war. Every English
soldier and naval man in action in New
Zealand was awarded one. —G. Sturrock
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 369
Across
I—An inn kept by monks giving
greeting to nutmeg, cinnamon
and mace. (7)
s—Slackest relation heartened by
this little falcon. (7)
9—Duck leg confused noon and
night like Lady Godiva. (7, 2)
10— He has a lot of time to do rifle
arrangements. (5)
11— Next pig or otherwise shipping
goods out. (9)
12— This makes canonised printing
material hum. (5)
13 — At home with the baby hero with
a cry of disgust where no golfer
likes to go. (4, 3,5)
16—Way in which the cost of travel
isn’t at all slipshod or careless.
(12)
20— Civet-like animal in the Earth
Goddess’s snare. (5)
21— Change in the broad measure
taken by a heroine of “Cosi
Fan Tutte.” (9)
23 Will it suit material? (5)
24 Occidental Sail is the most
sickly yellow girl with the least
elevated. (9)
25 This makes Don deny it is free
from stain as yet. (3-4)
26 Rage caused by the ineffective
cracker presented by George 22 —The family is to meditate
North. (7) moodily. (5)
Down
1 — Looked for Attila Edward. (6)
2 Upset no modified assault. (3, 4)
3 It is frostier with the French here
and the leading Elizabethan, too.
(5)
4 Secretly shingle a school subject.
(7)
5 German king makes the ink go.
(5)
6 South kind’s Trade Union
fortissimo in a made-up garment
from worm produce. (9)
7 Rakish from the service angle.
(7)
8 — Bird is let hold an alternative
Eisenhower. (8)
14 — Algernon is urged not to do the
toothache. (9)
15 — Increase candlepower right
inside the mountain. (8)
16 — Idriess is 10 presumably. Good
thrillers have it. (7)
17 — Falsified apparel was in the van.
(7)
18 — When about 51, Adamson’s
mother is to take the strain away.
(7)
19 — Swiss province makes an Oriental
city conserve weight. (6)
21 —Treated with medicine. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 368


Australian-made Machine Tools
/or IMMEDIATE Delivery
% V
MARS ARE SPECIALISTS
IN THE HEAT TREATMENT OF
ALLOY, TOOL AND DIE STEELS
.
MARS 6" 'THOR' LATHE
This is an ideal general-purpose lathe, with
large removable gap. The precision of tl
machine is guaranteed.
m
it
' &
m
m
ill 1
..V'. ■'
■ LI
.
rSR
■
H
m
MARS
7" DIFFERENTIAL DIVIDING HEAD
MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL
MILLER
A fine and modern milling machine
with guaranteed accuracy and out-
standing quality. Rapid power traverse,
all movements. Wide range of speeds
and feeds. Built - in electrics.
Schleisinger standard of accuracy.
Complete with all accessories.
MARS 8" 'ATLAS' LATHE
Large operational capacity, 6 feet between
centres, 24 inches diameter. Swing through
gap, 12 speeds. Gives quick, accurate operation.
MARS 101/11" AND 121/25" ALL-GEARED HEAD LATHES
with 3 Main Bearing Spindle, gap bed; large hollow Spindle; available to 12ft. centres; guaranteed accuracy. Fitted with
oil-immersed, multi-disc driving clutches; forced-feed lubrication; automatic brake system, remote control.
MARS MANUFACTURE
“MEEHANITE” (Regd.)
NODULAR AND ALLOY
IRON CASTINGS
GEARS, GENERATED TO
GLEESON, SUNDERLAND, HOBBING
AND FELLOWS PROCESSES
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES: „ « a w W
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. S.A.: w. n.
Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. N.S.W. & QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Pty. Ltd., 145 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA, BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta 8c Co., Ali Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
The Earnshaw Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
TAS.: Perkins
PHILIPPINES;
-3ZL
1
«*
1
i^i
m
©
a
E
s
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST.
VALLEY
BRISBANE
O’S*Advert-
