

/
1
e
BOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE COMING OF RESPONSIBLE 24
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3980
Wednesday, May 23, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE MOST POPULAR STATUE
IN LONDON,
FAMOUS PETER PAN
r J' I HE secret ambition of almost every
Londoner is to retire and live in the
country. This ambition may not always
be achieved, so he either lives in the
suburbs and has a garden, or in the
metropolis and has a window-box. But
in either case the Londoner takes his
leisure in one of the many parks or open
spaces with which the city abounds. One
of the most attractive is Kensington
Gardens, which lie to the west of Hyde
Park.
It is the playground of children and of
dogs, and at certain times of the year it
provides grazing for sheep. It has a
Round Pond on which model yachts are
sailed and it has Kensington Palace, where
the youthful Victoria became Queen in
1837. It also has the most popular statue
in London —that of Peter Pan, Sir James
Barrie’s immortal hero and the “boy who
wouldn’t grow up.” The statue stands
near the bridge end of the Long Water,
as this section of the Serpentine is
known. Here, amidst trees and shrubs
where the swans glide by on the quiet
water, Peter Pan stands surrounded by
the scene of his many stirring adventures
in Kensington Gardens, recounted in the
story written in 1906. He stands on a tree
stump, piping while a fairy tiptoes to his
feet and an old rock sits in a cranny.
Rabbits nibble around the roots of the
tree, a hare sits on a mushroom-shelf with
her young one crouching beside her, rats
peep out of holes and climb about, while
two fairies talk to a squirrel.
The statue by Sir George Frampton
and cast in bronze never fails to attract
the attention and admiration of all those
who Visit Kensington Gardens. Near the
Round Pond is the Elfin Oak, a tree
carved with figures of elves and gnomes.
Flower walks ablaze with color in Spring
and Summer, and secluded dells are other
features of these attractive gardens in the
heart of London.
No. 299: the Homeland Series hy the House of Seppelt.


TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to‘ obtain
volume, let ua find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
BRENT OF BIN BIN
Brent of Bin Bin is a figure of some
note in Australian literary history and
is also, probably. Miles Franklin:
nevertheless, this reviewer has the
gravest doubts about the merits, if any,
of the latest volume in Angus and
Robertson’s uniform-edition of the six
Brent of Bin Bin novels— Gentlemen at
Gyang Gyang; fifth in the series.
The series as a whole should, of
course, be read “in period,” for, though
many of the novels were written years
later, they belong essentially to the days
of Lawson, Furphy and “Steele Rudd,”
the first vigorous outpouring of a dis-
tinctively Australian viewpoint in
fiction; and doubtless out of them all,
as well as in the first, clearest and most
spirited statement of Miles Franklin’s
viewpoint in “My Brilliant Career,”
some enduring value will remain; a
spaciousness, a freshness, an ardent
Australianism, a distillation of the
beautiful Monaro countryside, a picture
of a way-of-life among the graziers of
the high plains and the mountains.
And yet, when the final assessment
is made, some very weak, novels will
have to be taken into —or dropped
from —account; and everywhere the
muddled writing, confusing plots, and
characterisation distorted or enfeebled
by puritanism must be weighed against
the virtues.
“Gentlemen at Gyang Gyang” is at
least simple in its plot, without the
clutter of tribal relationships which
make some of its predecessors so diffi-
cult to follow; Bernice Gaylord, a girl
who has won fame for her painting in
Paris and London, comes to the
Monaro for a rest-cure and is there
wooed by a bush-“lair” named .Spires
and a black-bearded loon named Peter
Poole.
Like all the other novels, it is set in
a landscape which, if you feel you need
a map to work-out your whereabouts
among the rapturous lists of place-
names, is described with charm and
fervor:—
Away, away down a valley was a
transcendent view of peaks, rising
tier upon tier as blue as the skies
above. From half-a-mile away she
could have faintly discerned
Kosciusko had there been someone
to point it out. She bathed her face
and hands in the icy water of the
little creek wriggling like a worm
between tussocks and shrubs, jet-
black at a certain angle above its
basaltic bed. The earth showed dark
between the tussocks: on the nearer
hillsides the burnt patches were like
mighty black blankets, and the boles
of the blackbutts too showed black:
there was a dark tinge all about as
if the region had black blood in its
veins. On every side were ramparts
of rock like decapitated castles . . .
There is, too, in the opening chapter,
a most amusing little description of a
country town-—so amusing that it is a
pity to note, as one must, that the word
“immune” doesn’t seem quite the one
the author wanted: —
Goona'ra was a Godforsaken
stagnant hole, a hangover from
mining days long dead. No visible
gardens lent amenity to the houses,
no trees threw shade on the road that
lay naked to the blazing sunlight.
Why anyone dwelt there was a source
of speculation, but no place is
immune from some kind of animal or
insect.
But for the rest the novel seems of
very littl® value: of interest, like
“Prelude to Waking,” the first of the
series, only because it is a Brent of
Bin Bin. It amounts to a thin rewriting
of “My Brilliant Career.” S
The central story is incredible. It
is unthinkable that Bernice Gaylord,
insofar as one can believe in her exist-
ence, the fashionable young painter
fresh from Paris, where her art has
been acclaimed and where she has had
a disillusioning love-affair with a world-
famous Russian musician, should listen
to the absurd lovemaking of the bush-
lair and fall, in the end, into the lean
hairy arms of Peter Poole—for all his
blue eyes burning like sapphires out of
his whiskers. If she were a connoisseur
of oddities in lovemaking she could
indeed fall for these no-hopers, or even
for the ancient cook whose portrait she
paints and whose virtues she reflects
upon so remarkably on page 43; but
Bernice is anything but that.
Neither are the sub-plots much more
believable. Powerful enough to give
his rival the familiar horsewhippings of
the Miles Franklin and Brent of Bin
Bin novels, and even to “murder” him
and toss him in the fire, and with
nothing more to fear than the loss of
his job, Peter Poole could never have
consented to be blackmailed by Spires
all his life for once having figured in
a paternity-case and once having
borrowed his boss’s car—except on the
assumption that he is even softer in
the head than he appears to be: which
would make his marriage to Bernice
more than ever out of the question.
Nor is it likely that so tough a character
as Spires, recovering from his toasting
in the lire, would allow himself to be
dragooned into a shotgun-wedding with
the country wench whom he has indeed
seduced but who is not, it appears,
pregnant.
Lacking all conviction as a story,
stilted in dialogue, the novel hardly
succeeds, either, as a picture of a way-
of-life. It springs, as well as from
militant puritanism, from a too-ardent,
too-assertive protectiveness towards the
Australian ego that chip-on-the-
shoulder nationalism which a sojourn
in England often enough inflicts on
the travelling Australian but which,
if it sets the writer turning-out propa-
ganda, can be as damaging as any other
fanaticism. Miles Franklin was so deter-
mined to assert that her simple sheep-
men. riding to clip the maggot-infested
wool from the sheep, were “brave
gentlemen, riding away each day like
cavalry with a pair of shears instead of
a sword in the scabbard,” that she does
not really ever get down to making
them convincing as sheepmen. They
are hardly more than puppets in a
fantasy.
New Zealand Childhood
The life of man may conveniently
be divided into three periods: from
nought to 16, when the most important
thing in the world is food; from 16 to
25, when love takes over; and 25 to
100, when one falls back on making
money. And since Mrs. Jean Boswell’s
Dim Horizons (Whitcombe anc
Tombs), about her childhood in New
Zealand, deals almost exclusively with
that first period, this reviewer found it
singularly appetising in a nostalgic sort
of way.
Away up north out of Dargaville,
where the kauri-forests used to grow
till the noble pioneers cut them all
down, the family lived in a nikau-palm
whare. They cooked in a camp-oven
and they ate
That wonderful camp - oven
cookery! No stove ever produced
such delicious cakes and scones,
such bread and crusty rolls, such
crisp currant-loaves and buns....
My mouth waters even now at the
memory of the succulent fare that
opened-up when that ember-covered
lid was lifted. Sometimes, on rare
occasions at first, when the boys
had the leisure to go hunting, it
would be a joint of tender young
wild porker ; more often it would
be braised wild-pigeon, its rich gravy
bubbling up through a crust of
feather-light suet-pudding.
They went out on the great “bonfire-
nights,” when the heaps of felled and
half-burnt timber were set alight; and
We buried potatoes and kumaras
and onions in the earth at the fire’s
edge, covering the spot with relays
of red-hot coals, and were allowed
to stay- up till they were cooked,
when we ate them, crisp and charred
and piping-hot, with .salt and, in
good times, a dab of butter. Is there
anything so delicious as root-vege-
tables baked in the ashes and eaten
in happy company round an evening
fire?
They ate home-made bread, “per-
fectly-cooked, crusty, golden-brown
loaves, and the kitchen would be filled
with their steam and warm nutty
aroma.” They ate tinned wild-pigeons.
They ate pumpkin-pie. They rode 10
miles over the hills to the coast,
gathered their own toheroas, baked
some on the spot and brought the rest
home for
.... the best toheroa-soup in the
district. I often wish that the
epicures who delight in our tinned
toheroa-soup could have tasted
Mother’s! —and she had the secret
of cooking toheroas so that they were
always tender ; for toheroas, unless
properly cooked, which doesn’t mean
long stewing, are as good jaw-
exercises as they are body-nourish-
ment.
They ate their own pigs from end to
end: fried liver, roast spare-ribs, hams
cured with brown-sugar and treacle,
black-and-white puddings, pork-pies,
savory faggots, brawn from the head,
trotters stewed to a jelly, “stracklings-
cake” from stray bits and pieces,
tongue-omelette, stuffed pot-roasted
heart, kidney-omelette, brain-on-toast.
They were apparently allowed to
drink the hop-beer, dandelion-beer and
an even more exotic brew, supplejack-
beer, made from the tough, juicy roots
of that pestiferous vine—in a tangle
of which, on one sad occasion, one of
the family’s horses tied itself up and
perished. They made honey-mead
from wild honey and “clear, sparkling
parsnip-wine that bubbled and twinkled
like champagne”—a powerful sub-
stance which made history when Mrs.
Boswell’s young brother stole a bottle
to see if it would make him drunk.
They roamed the bush and they ate
weird foods which most present-day
New Zealanders have never heard of:
There was in spring the delicious
tawhara, the fleshy, edible flower of
the kiekie-vine, or later the still more
delectable patungatunga, the ripened
seedpod of the tawhara. There were
to be had for the climbing the honey-
sweet berries of the wharawhara, the
tree-tussocks, beautiful long scarlet
fingers of gelatinous, black-seeded
berries which were our favorite of
all. We ate many berries of the large
trees, too; the golden karaka, with
the deadly kernel that had to be so
carefully ejected from the mouth;
the purple tarairi, the tawa with its
turpentine tang
Their friend Jim Maxwell was ranger
of the Waipoua Forest, and his Maori
wife cooked for them in the earth-
oven, or hangi,
... .chickens and ducks, bulging
with savory stuffing ; corned brisket
and joints of pickled pork—and he
who has not tasted pickled pork,
pink of flesh and creamy of fat, as
cooked to a turn in a Maori hangi,
has not tasted pork! And there
would be sweet-corn on the cob and
the sweetest of kumaras grown to
perfection on the sandy river-banks ;
and kumikumi, which we ate swim-
ming in butter ; sweet, dry pumpkin,
potatoes and cabbage and, to end
the feast, rockmelon soused in
grapejuice.
Mrs. Boswell must pardon the
reviewer for not going on with this
review. But, himself with sentimental
memories of a New Zealand boyhood,
really he is too full for words.
Only, it should be added that Mrs.
Boswell is the wife of New Zealand’s
first Ambassador to Moscow; and that,
though it would have been all the better
if she had left her pioneer-mother’s
fortitude to speak for itself, instead of
overstressing it, she has written a most
readable and valuable book, full of
forests, kauri-gum, remittance-men,
drunks, wicked storekeepers and
amusing family-life as well as all that
delectable food. Also, she has made
it clear that the famous hamlet of
Katui—which, alas, one had never
heard of—is never to be described as
being “four miles from Donnelly’s
Crossing.”
Australian Books
Eighteen Australian books, con*
sidered the best of the year from the
viewpoint of production, have been on
display at Angus and Robertson’s,
Sydney, and are to be sent, as with the
selections of previous years, to be dis-
played in London by the National
Book League in their annual inter-
national book-design exhibition.
Information about the selections,
with photographs of jackets, title-pages,
etc., is in a brochure entitled “Books of
the Year,” published by the Australian
Book Publishers’ Association. The
judges—Mr. L. F. R. Apthorpe, of
Craftsmen Typesetters, Sydney, Mr.
Arthur Freeman, of the East Sydney
Tech., and Mr. Leon Gellert—say that
more publishers are included in the
final selections than in previous years.
They found children’s and educational
books disappointing.
The selections, from a field of 60.
were: The Wandering Islands, by A. D.
Hope (Edwards and Shaw); Jemmy
Green in Australia, by James Tucker
(Angus and Robertson); The Gadding
Vine, by Walter James (Georgian
House); The Life and Times of James
Milson, by Roy H. Goddard (Georgian
House); Dust for the Dancers, by Beth
Dean and Victor Carrell (Ure Smith);
Child with a Cockatoo, by Rosemary
Dobson (A. & R.; jacket designed by
the author); I Can Jump Puddles, by
Alan Marshall (Cheshire); The Birds-
ville Track, by Douglas Stewart
(A. & R ); The Story of the Camera in
Australia, by Jack Cato (Georgian
House); The Flower Paintings of Albert
Sherman (A. & R.); Birds of Australia
in Color, by Lyla Stevens (Whitcombe
and Tombs); The Brownie Twins, by
A. S. Le Soeuf (John Sands); Manual
of Elementary Practical Chemistry, by
R. D. Brown and T. A. O’Donnell
(Melbourne University Press); Men
Without Wives, by Henrietta Drake-
Brockman (A. & R.); John Macarthur,
by M. H. Ellis (A. & R.); Australia, a
Camera Study, by Frank Hurley (A. &
R.); Modem Science for First Year,
by T. Tasker and M. W. A. Cullen
(A. & R.) and Words at Work, by
B. E. Houghton (Oxford University
Press).
The Inheritance: John Sommerfield
(Heinemann). A clever novel about
Londoners in the first year of peace
after. World War 11. The theme is
the effect which the hope of an inherit-
ance has upon a number of diverse
men and women, all of whom are
drawn with sureness and insight. The
hardships and sordidness of the time
are described so vividly that they hold
the attention with a sort of fascinated
disgust. But there is a vigorous,
unsentimental humor, too, and by the
end of the book one gets the impression
of fundamentally affectionate satire.
Reviewed Briefly
Beloved Lady: Barbara Jefferis
(Dent). A historical romance of the
15th century based on the love-story
of Margery Paston, mentioned in the
famous “Paston Letters” of the period.
Barbara Jefferis, an Australian writer
living in Sydney, has woven a rich
tapestry of people and events in the
Wars of the Roses as a background
and has caught the spirit of the times
remarkably well. In the thickly-
peopled story the women are most
vividly and convincingly drawn. The
description of Margery Paston’s
relationship to her mother, whom she
loves, fears and defies, has an'authen-
ticity which indicates the author’s fine
understanding of women’s nature. The
story is well constructed and there are
many scenes to grip the imagination,
the storming of a castle, a funeral, a
feast, a town visited by plague, a fair.
Obviously much research has gone into
the writing of this book. It brings the
past to life in an absorbing way.
* * * *
Love at First Sight: Naomi Royde
Smith (Robert Hale). This novel takes
the reader for a brisk run through three
generations and gives the impression
of being a precis of the rich, long
family-novel this experienced author
owes to literature. Here, under the
insipid title, are found crispness of
style, penetrating wit, telling phrases
and lifelike characters all tossed-off
with a sort of impatience to be on and
over-with the story. It is an irritating
technique, for the book otherwise is
readable and entertaining.
* * *
Behind the Mirror: Robin Maugham
(Longmans). A story of a London
scenario-writer who goes to Tangan-
yika to check on a point in one of his
oversimplified plots and there discovers
a tale of darker import. . Lightly
written, it makes good railway-train
reading, provided the train does not go
oft the rails.


Anthony Horderns’
•
V V-
\
< X::%
'• ' v xX
/ V v. \
•1 > : « \
/ \ ,'VV /-.••> ' -v X.
K> ; /..:/ V ; ?:;/
// V•• \ V*'
/ \ \v/ir^
,•• / \ Y / > 1
! / \ /*.;!
,■/ \ //An
, V
/ ;
/
■k
u.
s* .
\
i;i> i'. }h¥
///./I; jjl;|
•» •; v' J
: : s
Y'- ;
. ••
f- .>•
mm
• \
V
v, \
X: \
5 I
m
? : >:
' . Y
»*'l
V* *
S'"
\ • *
•s • V
.* x v"'
/ /
V -,'v
V\ * '
K A .<> ; s
I S i
\ \
! ■ v"
# / /
V &
C V’S -*> **> , • s v x ... ,
/A V\ ‘ A V--’
* v\ : V* * < . ;*
, y'j
v ’Y •••
n
I rvcu\ V
lAf " / /
V \
V'X ■ >
•Y>'\
w
$ 4 i
/i i
\ •• V.
J .. ; YX-;> .
; • '»••
YAY ./
'll
1-
%
* -
A
’ ■:*
B
V -V -A
V \
/ v
m
■
\K' N ’V •
.
\K.":
,t x »u\\»\v" \
:'-v
V \
x\Y
jc me
: l i
1
■
Ia
y y
:Y ■
AAr/
WA ‘X.l'.:*- /
D
;
/ ! : ■ ;
/: ' :
/;
\ *“ \ j
•vS
fv/, J
A '-AA-w". v;
■ ■
/T\
C:A;;. A O')
\ Xy, ;•• V
ilSfli
Jifl
l;.i. - , J
a
G
U 9 s our business ...
All purpose Footwear
h » Hail
Anthony Horderns’ arts footwear specialists.
Our buyers have learned not only to buy high
fashion, but to cater for every day utility
with quality fitting and comfort. Hall Shoes.
A. “Pedic,” brown kid, derby tie, welted sole,
hide heel. Sizes A-D. Priced at 67/6.
B. “Stroller,” moccasin vamp, welted sole,
leather heel. Tan calf. AA-C fitting. 65/6.
Box 2172 , G.P.O.f Sydney
C. “Lusion,” white buck duty shoe, welted sole,
leather heel, rubber top piece. AA-C. 66/-
D. “Pedic,” black call golf shoe, fringe tongue.
AA-C fittings. Priced at only 68/6.
E. “Lusion,” tan calf derby tie, welted sole,
leather heel. AA-C fittings. Priced at 68/6.
F. “Precision,” men’s high grade welts. Tan or
black calf, 78/-; black kid, 78/-. 6 x 11C to
EE fittings.
G. “Kempton,” black or tan calf golf shoe.
Fractional fittings. 6 x 11E to EE. Price 75/6.
/CCS
Anthony Horderns’
Watch Repair Service
All work carried out by
expert craftsmen. Let us
advise you on your watch
repair problems. We remake
'•all types of Diamond Jewel-
lery. Safe, prompt service.
Having a Parly?
Going to a Ball?
Anthony Horderns’ Liquor
Dept, can supply all your
requirements and deliver
free daily to 325 suburbs.
Plenty of Bottled Beer
Free daily delivery in
Metrop. area to 325 suburbs.
Down Quilts Remade
Anthony Horderns’ will re-
make your old down quilt
to look like new. We are
quilt specialists and all
quilts are remade by quilt
experts in our own factory.
Only the best quality mate-
rials are used for the cover-
ings. Please write for a
quotation now before the
cold weather arrives.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3980
Wednesday, May 23, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUTOMATION ON THE MARCH
THE strike at the works of the Standard Motor Co.
in Coventry brought to general notice a word
which has been pushing itself forward in the past
few years. But automation has been on the way ever
since the first steam-engine and the first power-loom.
Now it seems to be here, although there is consider-
able difference of opinion as to whether it has really
arrived, is just around the corner or still a few
blocks away. There is difference of opinion, too,
as to what the effect of automation will be.
This is not surprising. When mechanical
power was first introduced into English factories,
below and above the matter-of-fact folk who
merely accepted the change, as a natural
phenomenon of nature there were those- who
gloomily prophesied that it would mean starvation
for the mass of the workers and those who saw
in it visions of Utopia, with all the burden of toil
taken from the shoulders of man. Neither section,
of course, was right. Not starvation, but higher
living-standards followed the machines. After 200
years of mechanical advancement the United States,
the most highly industrialised country in the world,
is also the richest, and its people enjoy the highest
standard of living. But they have no Utopia;
they still have to work hard for* what they enjoy.
At about the mid-period of the Industrial Age
forward-looking minds began to realise that mere
multiplication of horsepower was not enough, any
more than multiplication of manpower had been.
They began to talk of machines to watch machines;
machines to work machines; machines to direct
machines; machines to check machines. With the
application of electronics to industry these
prophecies now seem close to realisation.
Last June the British Institution of Production
Engineers held a conference at Margate to discuss
the technical and social significance of automation.
Over 11,000 delegates, including { engineers,
managers, educationalists and trade-unionists,
attended. The conference was told that the main
developments in automation could be classified as
(1) transfer machinery—the coupling of one
machine to the input of another; (2) automatic-
control devices —gauges, amplifiers, servo-mechan-
isms, etc.; (3) electronic computers; (4) mechanised
assembly. Advantages claimed were (1) saving in
direct labor; (2) saving in floor-space; (3) reduction
in inventories; (4) better control of processing; (5)
automatic inspection of work; (6) fuller use of
machine-capacity. The main speakers agreed that
the introduction of automation (in Britain) would
be gradual and “need not create general, permanent
unemployment, though its introduction in particular
industries or undertakings would raise a number
of technical and social problems.”
Opinions of leaders of industry in Britain vary
a lot on the subject. D. G. Lloyd-Lowles,
chairman of the Tap and Die Corporation, Ltd.,
told his company’s last annual meeting that automa-
tion was not a universal panacea; he said its intro-
duction into his industry would raise difficult
technical problems owing to the very high degree of
accuracy required in the tools and the high skills
of the makers. For this reason he felt it would be
many years before automation was practised on a
large scale in that industry. Sir Leonard Lord, of
the British Motor Corporation, told the Institution
of Production Engineers last October that they had
“oversold automation” and should spend the next
twelve months debunking it. He complained that
British toolmakers were unable to supply the tools
his industry needed. “The makers don’t listen to
us. They want to sell what they like making. So
we have to go to Germany.”
Despite Sir Leonard’s comment, his B.M.C.
had already gone in for automation on a consider-
able scale. By installing 60-odd transfer-machines
and 150 rotary-indexing-type machines, it had
increased the output of Austin vehicles from 3500
to 5000 a week, and reduced inventories by £2
million. Transfer-machines are also being installed
in the new Sydney works of 8.M.C., a fact which
led a British M.P. to lament the prospect of an
export market lost.
The motor-industry is one that is going over
increasingly to automation. This is inevitable.
America having adopted it, competitors must follow
or perish. To refuse to do so would be just as futile
as to tiy to produce cars at a competitive price
without the assembly-line. The oil-industry is
another convert to automation. Indeed, it is doubt-
ful whether a modern oil-refinery could operate
without automatic controls. An American writer
recently said that even if it were possible to substi-
tute manual controls and at the same time tell each
man what to do at the right time, they would still
be in trouble. He estimated that three to four times
as much crude oil would be needed to produce a
gallon of motor-spirit, and that many by-products
now produced would no longer be practicable.
Safety, instead of being guarded by elaborate auto-
matic interlocks, would depend on 100 to 300
individuals, each working without a mistake.
It doesn’t seem likely that automation will
produce the waves of machinery-smashing associ-
ated with the early' stages of the Industrial Revolu-
tion, but ill-advised strikes such as the Coventry
one could do just as much damage. Fortunately
there seems to be a general awareness of the need for
hastening slowly so that the transition to automation
will cause as little disturbance as possible. Greatly-
increased productivity, cheaper goods, higher
living-standards and a shorter working-week seem
ultimately assured, , but already the Utopians are
at work demanding the millennium straight away.
At the annual conference of the British Labor Party
in October, 1955 (also held at Margate), three
resolutions on automation were considered. One
demanded a campaign for introducing automation
as swiftly and widely as possible, making unlimited
national funds available for the purpose and intro-
ducing shorter working-days, longer holidays and
earlier * retirements. This was rejected, as was
another proposal which asserted that automation
would bring mass-unemployment if industry con-
tinued in private hands, and urged the conversion
of all industry to public ownership and control.
The resolution finally adopted “noted with
concern that increased productivity through auto-
mation would ensue without a corresponding
increase in the demand for labor”; it recognised
that only by economic planning could the benefits
of increased productivity be made available to the
people, and it urged the Labor movement to make
a study of the problem and, prepare a policy for
the next annual conference.
For the time being, then, the British Labor
Party has rejected the urgings of zealots who want
to make automation a short-cut to Socialism; its
attitude is one which combines apprehension and
caution. In the House of Representatives last
month Clyde Cameron, “Labor” M.H.R. for Hind-
marsh, urged similar caution. He accepted the fact
that automation had placed America in the fore-
front of world production and was playing an
important part in Russian industry; also, that
Australia must adopt it. He said that this country
must prepare right now to “meet the circumstances
that will flow from automation,” and that trade-
unionists must be guaranteed that “as automation
lessens the need for labor” either hours will be
reduced or living-standards improved. He felt that
most workers would prefer the second alternative,
and he urged the immediate preparation of a
“productivity index” so that the change could be
measured accurately.
As far as Australia is concerned, owing to the
relatively smaller output of its factories, automation
will probably be of slower growth than in the bigger
industrial countries, and this should enable its
impact to be cushioned more effectively. It is a
problem that calls for utmost co-operation between
management and labor and for effective Govern-
ment assistance. The new arbitration-system will
itself be fully involved. Probably the greatest
danger inherent in automation is not the fear that
it will cause unemployment but the expectation
that it will perform miracles; the biggest threat to
solvency may come not from those who oppose its
introduction but from those who want to reap the
harvest before the crop is up.
Is Government "Responsible"?
NEW SOUTH WALES this week celebrates the
centenary of what is called “responsible govern-
ment” in the unimaginative way in which such
events are too often celebrated. There will be
expensive junkets to which most of the descendants
of those who brought about the reason for the cele-
bration have not been invited.
The celebration would be a great deal more
appropriate if New South Wales had responsible
government, instead of something which has been
twisted and distorted under the hands of Communist
undercover leaders and open careerists into every-
thing that the Founding Fathers would have
rejected as inimical to their ideals.
Wentworth and Parkes, Darvall and Stuart
Donaldson, James Macarthur and Deniehy might
have disagreed violently about such matters as
squatters’ rights and property-franchises and the
continuance of transportation or importation of
coolie labor, but they would scarcely have disagreed
about the Cahills and the Evatts and the Tom
Wrights who are now so pompously celebrating.
Not one of them but would have been aghast
. at attempts of the present run of State “Labor”
Governments to impose compulsory-unionism, to
stifle discussion in the press of Governmental mis-
deeds, nepotism, hopeless surrender to the lawless
elements in State Transport Departments, and
strange aversion to independent inquiries into abuses
and corruption in various services and avenues of
public life.
The plain fact is that under the present “Labor”
Government of N. S. Wales, government is only
“responsible” in the sense that it is responsible to
the unions which have captured the party finances,
and to the executive of the A.L.P. branch, a body
constituted in the most curious manner at the
strangest and most disputed type of conference
election, by delegates without a vestige of authority
from the community at large. The State Executive,
which gives the Government its orders when it can,
is in turn subservient to the Trades and Labor
Council and to the paramount junta of “Labor”
totalitarianism, the Federal A.L.P. Executive. This
body has just now shown its love of the basic
principles of responsible government —the public
right of assembly and debate of public issues—by
forbidding the State “Labor” Annual Conference
to meet for discussions and for the passing of
resolutions which do not suit Dr. Evatt and his
friends.
It is quite clear that responsible government
exists in N. S. Wales only as a token institution.
It has been assassinated by the Gardens and the
McKells, the Evatts and the Wards and the McGirrs
and Cahills and Gus Kellys and replaced by a
usurpation centred in the Federal A.L.P. Executive,
whose majority is outside the State. Parliament is
a “Labor” dictatorship. The Speakership has
become a partisan office. Administration is riddled
with the kind of inefficiency and favoritism and
extravagance in the State public services that began
to wreck Rome at the end of the Augustan era.
Everything associated with the Cahill Government
smells of class-prejudice, nepotism and pressure-
group favoritism.
“Labor” policy has become so totalitarian that
even the rules and the platform of the “Labor”
party no longer seem to have validity in the State.
The law is the arbitrary will of the supreme junta
in Canberra, and the will of the supreme junta
derives from a mysterious source which seems
determined that its ideas shall run parallel to
those of the Kremlin, on defence and economic
change, and that anything which opposes the
Kremlin viewpoint in foreign policy shall be
savagely attacked. ,
While at the moment the State of N.S.W. is
busy celebrating the establishment of “responsible
government,” it has not even fully representative
government, which is a different and lesser thing.
Its civil services are loaded with employees whose
salaries and projects are coming to the point at
which the weight of them threatens to smother
private enterprise. Its politicians become more
and more remote from, and more and more regard-
less of, public opinion. And its press, devoted to
sex and sensation—the Sydney evening-papers’
current complex which governs the daily ration of
“news” seems to have been bred by Little Lord
Fauntleroy out of Messalina—is losing the respect
of the community. It could no more act the part in
securing self-government played by Wentworth’s
“Australian” and Edward Smith Hall’s “Monitor”
and John Fairfax’s “Sydney Morning Herald” than
it could dispense with its drapery-ads. It has gone a
long way (in the State in which freedom of speech
and assembly was won by the founders of the press)
to becoming a mere entertainment medium for
sensation-lovers.
The celebration of the centenary has come at
a juncture when there is ample room for the return
to the stage of the submerged successors of the
pioneers of the generation before 1856. The great
issue at the moment is not responsible government
but responsibility in government in the States. But
it should not be forgotten that a fully responsible
system of government has not yet been attained in
the Commonwealth as a Whole.
The national Government of Australia is based
on a Constitution drafted when colonialism was
still fully blooming. Even the most patriotic and
forward-looking of the drafters couldn’t foresee
that within a couple of generations of the achieve-
ment of Federation the Commonwealth would be
a nation of world stature.
Constitutional reform from the bottom upwards,
to knit the States into a nation with a co-ordinated
policy and to stop the continual struggle which
goes on between Federal and State financial
authorities, is the most urgent need of our time.
Until it is achieved there can be no really responsible
government, since States take one view of their
responsibility and the Federal Government another.
Mr. Menzies has frequently mentioned his
Government’s intention to appoint a committee to
consider Constitutional problems and suggest
reforms in the Constitution Act. But so far nothing
has been done. An announcement of the appoint-
ment of the committee would be a better way of
celebrating the anniversary of the establishment of
responsible government—such as it is—than the
junketing and gabbing of windy politicians and
limelighters which has marked the season so far.


ANOTHER BREAKDOWN


PLAIN ENGLISH
Singapore and Security
In spite of the petulance of Mr. Marshall,
chief negotiator for the independence of
Singapore, all countries concerned with
the defence against Communism of the
areas south of Indo-China will have
reason to feel relieved that the United
Kingdom stood firmly against the
demands for complete autonomy in
internal security.
Mr. Marshall is no more indigenous to
Singapore than the British whom he seeks
to oust, and neither are some of the other
elements concerned. In fact, in Singapore
as in Hong Kong, the British have been
the most permanent factor.
They originally took over the island,
which had been wiped clean of popula-
tion by the Javanese in the fourteenth
century, as a barren and muddy waste
with little population save for the snakes
and tigers. In 1819 Sir Stamford Raffles
founded a trading-settlement there and
foisted the British flag, without which
there would have been no great port df
Singapore.
It now consists of Singapore Island,
26 miles long and 14 wide (about 225
square miles), with its dependencies of
Christmas and Cocos-Keeling, whose fate
is in the melting-pot.
Its population has multiplied with
refugees during the last few years as other
parts of the area have fallen under new
influences. It holds, now, about 1,165,000
people, outside its dependent islands.
Its freedom cannot be justified on the
ground that it is a Malayan possession,
apart from the fact that it was com-
pletely ceded to the British, and that
gladly, by the Sultan of Johore. It holds
only 143,000 Malays, but 92,000 Indians
and 892,000 Chinese, a very large pro-
portion of whom have been there for
three to four generations. China, on a
racial basis, has more right to it than
Malaya.
It has had a new Constitution since
January, 1955, its outmoded Legislative
Council having then been superseded by
an Assembly which is very similar to the
old colonial type Council acquired by
N. S. Wales in 1843 —32 members, of
whom 25 are elected by universal
franchise among British subjects over 21
of whatever race, four nominated non-
officials, and three officials.
This body has power of internal self-
government, subject to the Governor’s
reserved powers on defence, foreign
affairs and internal security.
Mr. Marshall is a Labor man —or
thinks he is—and is Chief Minister and
leader of the Government in the
Assembly.
The Communists are naturally burning
to get Singapore, the City of the Lion,
out of reach of the British Lion’s paws.
They have no doubt, whatever Western
newspapers care to allege on the experi-
ence of the last war, that it holds a com-
manding central strategical position. An
occupant hostile to the West, if he has an
air-force and moderate-range guided-
missile platforms and adequate supply-
lines, can dominate the Indonesian and
Bornean oilfields, the Malayan rubber-
and tin-industries, can threaten the
Philippines On their flank, cut their
Western communications, dominate Euro-
pean air- and sea-routes to Japan,
threaten Siam from the rear and com-
mand the Bay of Bengal.
The British Commonwealth is prepared
to go a long way towards satisfying the
urge for self-government which has been
bred in Singapore largely, if not
primarily, by Communist and dissident
Indian agitation.
It is felt by nearly all parties, save Mr.
Marshall and his hotheads within the
Labor-front coalition, that Singapore in
itself has not the power and resources to
resist Communist inroads at the present
juncture. It certainly has not the stable
leadership to do it in Mr. Marshall.
Drunks and Temperance
It is natural for ardent advocates to
miss no opportunity of pleading their
cause, so it wasn’t surprising that the
leaders of the early-closing movement in
New vSouth Wales should seize on the
Police Commissioner’s annual report as
justification of their belief that 10-o’clock
closing of liquor-bars is harmful to the
community. Mr. Delaney reported that
the number of cases of drunkenness and
driving under the influence had increased
during 1955, the year in which 10-o’clock
closing was introduced. Charges of
drunkenness had risen from 72,591 in
1954 to 81,199 in 1955; the correspond-
ing figures for driving under the influence
were 4225 and 4477.
The increase is considerable, but taken
by itself it proves nothing except that
a substantial number of N.S.W. citizens
are unable to control their intakerof liquor
sufficiently well to keep out of the hands
of the police. Whether this can be
attributed to later hotel-hours is, at
present, merely a matter of opinion.
Drunkenness-charges don’t follow so
simple a pattern as that. Under early-
closing worse figures than last year’s were
recorded in 1948 and again in 1951.
Without any change in closing-hours they
dropped substantially in 1949, remained
almost stationary in 1950, jumped to a
peak in 1951, dropped again in the next
three years, and rose last year. A some-
what similar trend was recorded through-
out Australia, despite varying closing-
hours in different States. Tasmania, long
a 10-o’clock State, has far and away- the
lowest per capita drunkenness-rate.
The Turf and S.-p.
A big row is just beginning in Mel-
bourne over a request by the racing-clubs
to the radio-stations not to broadcast
scratchings and riders of races until five-
minutes before each race. The response
was a blast from the Melbourne press,
which is largely interested in some of
the B-ciass stations.
The implications are much wider than
a mere tiff between the racing leaders
and commercial broadcasters. The Turf
is on the toboggan.
. The racing-clubs’ problems in Vic-
toria are those of all throughout the
continent. Attendances and receipts are
falling; expenses are mounting; stakes
bear no relation to pre-war prizes—say,
£lOOO today, compared with £750 in 1939
—and, although newcomers appear every
week, more are selling their horses be-
cause they can’t afford the training-
bills; free meetings are being run in West
Australia; strappers at £5 an 80-hour
week are no longer available.
The one class making money are the
spivs. In some industrial areas of Syd-
ney and Melbourne every fourth or fifth
street has its s.p.-merchant and his fol-
lowers, and, although the recruits to
illegal bookmaking are occasionally
turned over by the police, it is a peculiar
fact that the old-established hands in
the suburbs and the Cadillac-class boys
who handle the big commissions from
plush city offices remain singularly
immune from prosecution.
In the circumstances the racing-clubs’
request seems reasonable. A delay of
the announcing of scratchings and
riders until five-minutes before a race
won’t trouble those who wish merely to
listen to a description, but it would
seriously hamper the s.-p. boy in dealing
with the rush of clients up the lane in
the last few minutes.
The newspapers are advising the clubs
to lower their charges, and also to make
their programmes more attractive to the
public. In the bigger capitals, the city
clubs have a tradition of catering for
the better racehorse—this is especially
true of the AJ.C. in Sydney and the
V.A T.C. and V.R.C. in Melbourne —in
the unremitting endeavor to improve the
breed of the Australian thoroughbred.
(That is the reason most committeemen
put up with the chores of committee-
work for their clubs.) Higher attend-
ances and bigger betting-turnovers prob-
ably would follow the introduction into
Flemington and Randwick and Caulfield
programmes of races for the mediocre
performers that now race at such places
as Gosford and Kyneton.
The Melbourne clubs’ present contro-
versial plan was tried without much
success in Sydney last year; this makes
the more laudable their aftempt to
channel into the tote some of the
enormous volume of money now illegally
wagered off-the-course, rather than lower
their colors.
"Disarmament"
Following the Bulganin - Khrushchev
visit to England, Russia came up with
another foxy plan of “disarmament” last
week.
It proposes to disband armed forces
to the extent of 1,200,000 men by May
next year. Sixty-three divisions are to be
disbanded, it says, including three air-
force divisions and formations containing
30,000 men in East Germany.
About 375 ships in the Red Navy are
to be put into reserve —what ships it
isn’t stated.
All this sounds very rosy until the
facts are looked into,. It isn’t emphasised
in the first place that the Russian reserve
is so large that it can outbalance Western
manpower resources four to one. The
Russian conscript-intake has been going
on for 2,000,000 men a year, and these
undergo two years’ training and there-
fore go back to civilian life and a
closely controlled reserve very compe-
tent soldiers. The reductions leave the
U.S.S.R. and its European satellites with
about 6,000,000 men regularly in arms.
Apart from this, Chinese training of
troops has filled the gap made by
the disbandments, and nobody has re-
marked on the fact that the satellite
countries of Eastern Europe went under
combined Soviet-bloc command last year
and that here again there have been
locally-raised increases of troops to make
up for the disappearance of the Russian
levies.
The reduction in shipping is, of course,
not a tithe of the reduction which has
been made in most Western countries,
notably Britain. It is not said that while
most European navies have shrunk,
Russia’s has been steadily growing, and
that the growth has been aggressive in
type—a building in particular of big
wide-ranging submarines, escort-vessels
and heavily-armed heaVy-cruisers and
medium pursuit-ships suitable for war
against a mercantile marine.
Nothing, again, is said about the fact
that the reductions come at a time when
Russia is boasting of its expansion in
the field which is most disturbing—the
field of the H-bomb —and when it is
experiencing shortage of manpower in
heavy industry, which is expanding,
according to the plans announced coinci-
dentally with the publication of the recent
Budget, in a way completely out of tune
with any intention to reduce armament.
Lastly, it needs to be considered that
the reductions in manpower don’t neces-
sarily mean reductions in firepower,
which is a crucial factor. As the U.S.
Army has pointed out recently, the
Soviet Union has just completed the
equipment of all its main forces with a
“deadly new family of weapons,” jointly
with the perfection of a vast modernisa-
tion programme in tactical methods and
facilities to meet the atomic age and
produce increased mobility and disper-
sion and elasticity of action. It has new
atomic artillery heavier as to projectiles
than the U.S. 280 mm. gun, and the
largest-calibre mortar in the world, and
it has adopted the combat-team as a
unit and replaced the primitive transport
of World War II with fast, light, deadly
tank-units served with ancillary heli-
copter and amphibious transport.
All the theory behind the reorganisa-
tion is obviously aggressive, not defen-
sive, and is designed for the same kind of
purpose as the German armored-units
which overran France in 1940.
The Victorian House
“Spring St.”: It was the first time I had
had a look at the Vic. Legislative
Assembly in session for more than a
decade, and I knew the scene by heart.
John Cain was in his accustomed place as
Leader of the Opposition ; there was one
of the old U.A.P. band —Sir Thomas
Maltby, in fact—holding the Ministerial
fort, and on the cross-benches were the
Country party, with their leader, Sir
Herbert Hyland, bristling about some-
thing or other, as the C.P.s usually are
when they are not in the benches on the
Speaker’s “Aye” side.
Cain was on his feet as I entered, and,
by the Lord Harry, he was saying, “What
is wanted, of course, is an underground
railway ; but there is no money for that.
There is plenty of money for lotteries,
though, plenty of money for them.”
As it was Cain who introduced
Tattersall’s to Victoria, it was too much
for me, and I went out to look at the
refurbished Queen’s Hall and environs
of the Legislative Council.
When I returned Hyland had the floor,
and, believe it or not, he was saying, “The
Country party does not stand for just one
section of the people of this State. We
stand for the people of this great
metropolis, too.”
I don’t know whether Hyland believed
himself, or whether any of the Liberals or
Laborites did, but I didn’t. It was all
dismayingly familiar; and then I caught
sight of something new.
Listening politely on the Ministerial,
bench was Henry Bolte, the Premier. He
was wearing a morning-coat and striped
pants. I’ll bet a packet of Craven Ato
a box of Bryant and May’s it was the
first time a farmer wore them when he
didn’t have to.
New Codes Wanted
Apart from political strikes which ignore
the rights and the welfare of employers,
workers and the general public in order
to serve the interest of a foreign Power,
the most inexcusable form of industrial
dispute is that which ties-up a factory
or enterprise while two unions squabble
over a demarcation-dispute. Recently
a British shipbuilding-yard was thrown
idle when boilermakers and shipwrights
both claimed the sole right to bore holes
which had to go through metal and wood.
The argument went on for months, dur-
ing which no holes were bored by any-
one, no work was done, no wages earned
or paid and no ships completed.
Similar bickering in a Sydney ship-
yard caused Conciliation Commissioner
Tonkin to criticise unions which stopped
work over such disputes. He said last
week that demarcation-squabbles were
merely differences of opinion between
workers as to who should perform cer-
tain work, and that some employees and
union-officials paid little regard to the
rights of the management. The point
he was asked to decide was whether a
certain job in connection with fabricated
sections of a vehicular-ferry in course of
construction was properly described
as “marking-off” or “lining-off.” The
Boilermakers’ Society argued that the
work constituted “marking-off” and was
thus within their province. The Fed-
erated Shipwrights’ Association claimed
it was “lining-off” and was their pigeon
according to the “Demarcation Blue
Book” compiled in 1914. The employers
said the work had been done for years by
boilermakers without complaint from the
shipwrights.
Mr. Tonkin decided that the work was
“marking-off,” and he awarded it to the
boilermakers. He said that shipbuilding
methods had changed in the last 40 years,
and he suggested that thfe unions should
get together again and draw-up a more
KIDS AND THE
COMMUNITY—page 34
modern demarcation code. It would also
seem to be a good idea for Dr. Evatt,
Albert Monk, Tom Dougherty and other
leaders of organised “Labor” to get
together and draw-up a more modern
mateship code. The old one appears to
be rather out-of-date.
"The Day We Celebrate"
“M.H.E.”: A century ago today Sydney
—population 55,000, including 380 in
Darlinghurst jail and 2000-odd in the
ships in harbor —flocked to Macquarie-
street to the vice-regal opening of its
first responsible legislature Sydney
“Herald” severely pointed out that it was
not designated a “Parliament” in the
Act, and adjured its obedient members
to call themselves M.L.A.s and M.L.C.s.
The latter-end of 1853 had seen the passage
through the Council of the Constitution Bill,
with much heady abuse and democratic riot
over “bunyip peerages.” The Christmas
season which had followed had been devoted
to adulation and farewelling of the Founding
Fathers and collections for testimonials to the
two delegates who were to steer the bill through
the shoals of Westminster.
Edward Deas-Thomson (product of Edin-
burgh High School, Harrow and Caen; husband
of Governor Sir Richard Bourke’s daughter,
Anna Maria; Colonial Secretary since 1837)
went off first on his tour on January 25,
1854. The band of the popular North Devons
had played him out at Circular Quay, and
that “noble vessel” the Vimeira, 1037 tons,
“after some delay, was ultimately harnessed
to her iron horse” and taken down a cheering
harbor by Captain Neatby under a “sky as
serene as the Australian firmament could
display,” until they got outside, when she ran
into heavy rain.
On March 20, the heavens wept torrents
when William Charles Wentworth in the
o Continued on next page )
SHEEP AND WOOL
Special Issue
Next week’s “Bulletin” will be a
double-sized issue with a special
“Sheep and Wool” supplement of
outstanding interest.
Among its many remarkable
features will Ibe articles by
Anthony Hordern, snr., Sir Walter
Merriman, M. H. Ellis, David
M. Archer, Dr. H. G. Belschner
and a host of other sheep and wool
authorities.
Next week’s “Bulletin” will be
the most interesting and informa-
tive, from the sheep-man’s point of
view, ever published.
Price, as usual, ninepence.


Chusan followed his * co-delegate, his long life’s
work completed. As the “Herald” put it:
Hoary in years, worn out with the tur-
moil of a busy and exciting life, in which
a mind excessively active has been con-
stantly at war with what he himself
was wont to call “constitutional indolence,”
it is a painful reflection that the great
man of the first era of Australian history
has passed away from us—perhaps for
ever.
How he had seen accomplished what in
“older times would have occupied centuries” to
achieve and his “native land spring from a
petty and despised settlement of convicts,” till
“in the eclipse of his declining years the
majestic dawn of an empire’s greatness on the
soil of his native birth is revealed to him”
would (the “Herald” thought) be “the theme of
the philosophic historian of future years.”
He had gone, had seen the bill pass through
the Imperial Parliament, had made the first
fighting moves towards Federation. The dream
which he had adumbrated in 1819 was now
being given concrete life in 1856.
At the elections, just over, of the 54 who
were to institute the new responsible democracy,
the first to receive a requisition to stand had
been that profane native of the ancient village
of Bow, John Robertson. His manifesto, the
very epitome of democratic aspiration, had
called for manhood suffrage, the ballot,
electorates proportioned to population, non-
sectarian education, free selection* of lands —
his Land Act of 1861 was to be the genesis of
closer-settlement. The rest elected included 27
landholders and squatters, some “settlers,” four
barristers, a solicitor or two, six merchants,
two millers, a freeholder, a tanner, a book-
seller (Piddington), but only one journalist
(Henry Parkes), though others, notably Richard
Jones, co-founder of the “Maitland Mercury, ’
Forster (the satirist of the “Atlas”) and young
Daniel Deniehy had claims to be included in
the profession. The membership of the Lower
House was like a roll of early fame —a son and
son-in-law of John Macarthur; sons of Oxley;
of merchant Campbell, ' first great free
merchant; of Simeon Lord, first great emancipist
merchant; of Wm. Cox, builder of the first
road across the Blue Mountains; of Sir John
Jamison, of Suttor. There were Patrick Leslie,
pioneer of the Darling Downs*; Hovenden Hely;
two Macleays. The biggest vote to return a
member had been 3073—Daniel Cooper, Sydney
Hamlets; the smallest, 74—Richard Hargrave,
New England.
For two months the composition of the
Cabinet had been in debate. The first nominated
Prime Minister, Deas-Thomson, failed to secure
colleagues. Stuart Donaldson, merchant, father
of an Archbishop of Brisbane and Bishop of
Salisbury, Consul-General for Sardinia,
Piedmont and Genoa, and who once tried to
shoot Sir Thomas Mitchell in a duel, had won
the laurel from Charles Cowper (“Slippery
Charlie”), son of the vicar of St. Philip’s.
The first Ministry to meet the House was
Donaldson, Prime Minister and Colonial .
Secretary; James Macarthur, Colonial
Treasurer; W. M. Manning, barrister from
Devon, Attorney-General; J. B. Darvall, Eton
and Trinity, Cambridge, grandson of a colonial
Governor, Solicitor-General; G. R. Nichols,
son of the convict Isaac Nichols, Australia’s
first posfmaster, himself a solicitor who had
been articled to Australia’s first free solicitor,
as Auditor-General. Donaldson, Manning,
Darvall and Nichols were gazetted to the
Executive Council on April 28. Macarthur
retired; with Thomas Holt, wool-merchant from
Yorkshire, as Treasurer, and William Mayne
representing the Government in the Upper
House, the other originals became a Government
on June 6, and lasted 81 days. Cowper, who
succeeded, lasted 37 days; then Parker, who had
married Emmeline Macarthur, born during the
Biigh rebellion, nearly a year. Despite the
“Herald’s” question: “Why should there be
an Opposition merely because there is one at
Westminster?” Oppositions were a virulent
feature of House politics from the start.
On May 22 the Houses met at noon to elect
President of the Council and Speaker. In a
nominated Council of 21 “Hon enables,” Sir
Alfred Stephen—later father of eighteen
children, who could almost have provided a
full Council himself —became first President.
In the Assembly, Daniel Cooper, later our first
baronet, nominated by Cowper and Richard
Jones, beat Macarthur’s son-in-law Watson
Parker for the Speakership—on the first
division, 24 to 23.
Next day Sir William Denison formally
opened Parliament. The Hon. Alex Warren,
M.L.C., moved the traditional pro forma motion
by means of which Parliaments assert their
right to legislate:
“That a Bill for an Act to enable infants
with the approbation of the Supreme Court
in its Equitable Jurisdiction to make bind-
ing settlements of their Estate real_ and
personal on Marriage be read a first time.”
Parliamentary government was launched. By
the end of the year, the Parliaments of South
Australia (October), Victoria (November) and
Tasmania (December) were operating.
Amid all the excitement, during which the
first N. S. Wales Ministry was being “dragged
squealing from the tartshop,” nobody seems to
have noticed the birth in Fitzroy, Melbourne, on
August 3, 1856, of a child named Alfred
Deakin.
POLITICAL POINTS
One hundred years of responsible
government in N. S. Wales has culmin-
ated in Cahill and Co.! It’s not a very
encouraging thought, but, after all, a
hundred years isn’t long in the life of a
nation.
9 9
When Federal Parliament adjourned
on Friday afternoon it was believed that
Evatt would speak yesterday on the
arbitration legislation (presumably sup-
porting the plea for an adjournment,
which would leave the measure for the
semi-new Senate later in the year), and
that the Prime Minister, in addition to
delivering his review of the economic
state of the nation this week, would also
table the 1951 double-dissolution papers.
This will be the P.M.’s last week in
Parliament before leaving for London.
He sails from Fremantle in the Arcadia
on May 27.
9 9
The Queensland elections have come
and gone, and despite earnest campaign-
ing up and down the State by all three
party-leaders it will be very hard to tell
the new Assembly from the old. Gair
will still be Premier, and “Labor” will
still have a strength of at least 49. the
number it took to the polls. The Libs
will be unchanged at eight, but if, as
seemed likely on Monday, the Country
party is able to regain Roma, there’ll be
16 Cockies. “Labor” won Nundah, held
in the last Parliament by Independent
Roberts; the other two Independents
retained their seats.
At the close of counting on Saturday
sitting “Labor” member Dohring was 76
votes ahead of Ewan (Country party) in
Roma with about 900 votes to come. At
the same stage in 1953 his lead was 250,
and he subsequently won by 162.
Rockhampton is another doubtful seat.
Formerly held by “Labor” veteran
J. Larcombe, who retired at the end of
the last Parliament, it is being contested
by H. R. Gardner (“Labor”), R. B. Pil-
beam (Liberal) and T. P. Kelly (Demo-
crat). At close of counting Gardner had
a lead of 69 over Pilbeam, with about
1200 votes to come. In the 1953 election
“Labor” improved slightly in the closing
stages of the count. If this trend is
repeated Gardner will win.
There could also be upsets in Hinchin-
brook, where Jesson (“Labor”) leads
Curro (Lib.) by 311, and Mackenzie,
where Whyte (“Labor”) is 186 ahead of
Hewitt (C.P.).
Voting throughout the State didn’t
follow a regular pattern. In most of the
seats which “Labor” won by narrow
majorities in 1953 the sitting members
improved their positions on Saturday, but
in many safe Government seats the
“Labor” vote was down.
Gair comfortably defeated his former
henchman, Lord Mayor Roberts, in South
Brisbane. The Premier’s comment on his
party’s success was that it made him as
“happy as a sandboy” and that the result
showed that “Labor” had faced the elec-
tion with a united front. It remains to be
seen how united the front will remain.
9 9
J. W. Hadley, former “Labor” member
for Lilley in the Federal Parliament, will
enter the Queensland Assembly as a result
of the election. He won Nundah comfort-
ably. .Hadley represented Lilley- from
1943 till his defeat by Bruce Wight in
1949.
9 9
N. S, Wales courts do not accept as an
excuse for not appearing, for jury-service
the plea that the absence of the juror
would inconvenience his employer; if
they did it would be almost impossible to
fill a jury. But at least one Government
department—or some executive officer in
it —apparently thinks the reason should
be sufficient when the person summoned
is a public servant. Last week Clegg, J.,
fined a public servant £1 for failing to
appear for jury-service and described a
departmental letter which used the
“inconvenience” plea as a piece of
impertinence. He pointed out that most
of the jurors present were also suffering
considerable inconvenience, but had not'
asked to be excused. He hoped the p.s.
who had instructed the juror would pay
his fine.
9 9
Dr. Evatt’s support of David Marshall’s
Singapore claims shows he is still the
champion of small notions.
9 9
All these Leftist-union protests against
the Monte Bello A-tests follow the same
pattern of ignoring the reassurances of
those who are in the best position to
know and of accepting the say-so of any-
one who condemns the tests. Wharfies,
seamen, miners and others have obedi-
ently expressed the opinion that no
nuclear-weapon tests should be held in
or near Australia. The latest protest
comes from Townsville, where the Meat
Employees’ Union is discussing a ban
on cattle from the Northern Territory and
from north and we§t Queensland because
they profess to fear that radioactive dust
from the Monte Bello explosion may have
settled on the beasts.
- Sheep- and cattlemen in Westralia are
going about their business unconcerned,
even in places within earshot of the
explosion. Yet Fay, the secretary of
the Townsville Meatworkers, has. written
TRYING TO PLACE HIM
“Who was the old buffer, Joe? A Grouper or an Anti-Grouper?”
to Brisbane suggesting that the Meat
Board should equip Queensland drovers
with geiger-counters. It’s enough to make
Clancy overflow with mirth —or disgust.
If Monte Bello dust can endanger the
cattle-industry in Queensland, what
must the Soviet H-bomb tests have done
to the cattle of Russia?
9 9
Tram and Bus Employees’ Union per-
mitting, 43-seater one-man buses will go
into service on a number of routes in
Sydney and Newcastle next Sunday. A
deputation from the union and the Trades
and Labor Council saw Premier Cahill on
Thursday and made their umpteenth
protest without adding any further
arguments to their case, except that the
number of routes proposed for the three-
months’ trial period was too great for a
proper check. Cahill said he’d examine
that complaint, but he thought the union
should co-operate in view of the fact that
the public would be asked “to make some
sacrifices because of the transport losses.”
He later admitted that this meant higher
fares.
The imminence of a rise in tram- and
bus-fares has been obvious for months,
though Cahill refused to be aware of it
during the recent election-camnaign.
9 9
India is to have decimal coinage from
April 1 next year, when the rupee will'be
divided into 100 units. The value of the
rupee will be unchanged ; the new unit
coin will be the naya paisa (“new pie,”
the pie having formerly been a twelfth of
an anna, with 16 annas to the rupee).
Vic. public servants below the first
division and above the lower divisions —
just on 7000 of them—have got almost all
they sought from the Public Service
Board in a new salary-determination.
They had asked for the same increases
given the Federal public service. The
award puts them ahead of all other State
public services—several of which have
claims pending—and just short of the
Federal awards.
Rises range from £l3 to £4OO a year,
and it is tipped that the Government this
week will quickly announce commen-
surate rises for permanent heads of
departments.
The increases will cost the Bolte
Government £290,000 in a full year. For
a man already £3j million in the red, the
Premier took the news equably, probably
because it’s merely part of the stunning
pattern.
9 9
“In the ACT”: When J. R. Odgers,
then Usher of the Black Rod and now
Clerk-Assistant of the Senate, visited the
United States recently on a Smith-Mundt
grant, he made a special study of
Congress and of the State legislatures
(in one of which he was delighted to see
the presiding-officer enjoying a bottle of
“coke” while in the Chair). He was
impressed greatly with the number of
private members’ bills introduced in Con-
gress, and believes there should be more
in Australia. This would not mean, he
says, that private members should
attempt to usurp the Ministry’s
responsibility for framing legislative
policy, but “a private member’s bill pro-
posing an improvement in the law
permits greater expression, and com-
mands more consideration, than a ques-
tion or speech.” One would almost
imagine Jeff Bate had read Odgers’s
report in advance.
9 9
A constant user of the telephone wants
to know why the charges were calculated
to make a profit last year of almost £3
million, which was used to offset losses of
more than £2 million in the postal branch
and £BOO,OOO in the telegraph branch.
“Surely,” he writes, “people who mail
letters should pay what it costs, and those
sending wires should do likewise. Then
my phone-bill might be a good deal
lighter, even if my postage-bill were more.
Arguments about concessional rates leave
me unmoved. Most of those who benefit
could afford to pay a good deal more than
they do.”
9 9
Although few people realise it, Friday
was a red-letter day in N. S. Wales. Bis-
cuits and toothpaste were released from
price-control!
9 9
Some idea of what the lottery-craze
means to the Postal Department is
given by the P.M.G.’s report for the
year 1954-55. That was the year in
which “Tatt.’s” shifted from Hobart to
Melbourne, and the report reveals that
overall postal business in Tasmania
dropped by 22 per cent.
• 9
Having turned from university econo-
mics to “Labor” economics J. F. Cairns
now seems to be out to rival Dan Curtin
as interjector-in-chief for “Labor.” In
the debate on the Export Payments In-
surance Corporation Bill, after he had
chipped-in four times in two-minutes
while Peter Howson was speaking,
Deputy Speaker Adermann called him
to order with:
The honorable member for Fawkner is
making this speech. All the wisdom of the
House does not reside in the honorable
member for Yarra. He must remain silent.
Even then Cairns had one more (ry
before subsiding.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
J SEE by “The West Australian” that
the two judges in divorce in Perth are
Mr. Justice Wolff and Mr. Justice Virtue
i —“O.F.”
❖ *i+
“Derwent”: Readers of the Diocesan
Letter issued by the Anglican Archbishop
ol Sydney were surprised to read that
“On the following Sunday I went to the
Hall to dedicate the hotels in the area
from Manly to Narrabeen,” until they
reflected that his Grace must surely have
meant “hostels.”
❖ ♦>
“Ceg”: Since the abolition of Sunday-
trading for bona-fide travellers in Vic-
toria our old friend the cockatoo has
taken to his erstwhile perch outside
country pubs. It’s amazing the interest
he takes in the street-scenery on Sunday,
he who is so uninterested in it on other
days of the week. Usually the old yard-
man, to whom the surroundings must be
as familiar as his own boots, he sits there
for hours on one of the dilapidated
Windsor chairs from the ladies’ lounge.
One wonders what he is so intently watch-
ing for. Surely not the local police, those
keen boys in blue, who would be too
smart for his little game! , No, it must
be that he just likes to take a little fresh
air on the Sabbath.
*l+
“Jon Lyn”: Surely there’s a novel in
Heinemann’s the publishers’ address:
“. . . . in the Parish of St. Andrew-by-the-
wardrobe with St. Ann.”
»t*
“Tabba”: Why did car-manufacturers
stop using steering-column locks? No-
body could move cars so fitted without
duplicate keys or a break-down outfit,
and owners slept easier at night. One
popular make of ’car seems particularly
vulnerable to theft, and I came across a
Victorian model which was booby-
trapped. About midnight, when locking
my car alongside the Imperial Hotel at
King’s Cross, I placed my hand on the
door-handle of the car alongside. A
loud voice from the fourth-floor
bellowed, “You can leave that Holden
alone!” Next morning the park-
attendant told me that this car had special
locks on steering-column and clutch, and
a hidden ignition-switch. Its standard
ignition-switch sounds a loud horn. With
all those gadgets you’d expect the owner
to sleep instead of keeping an all-night
vigil.
❖ *l* *x*
“Willpar”: How did the ancients who
wore ’em keep their fig-leaves on without
visible means of support? asks “Doric”
(B. 9/5/’56). Chorus-girls know the
answer, hence their ability to defy the
censor and the laws of gravity with those
decorative little things they sometimes
wear on their chests that give the impres-
sion that you can change both the song
and the volume by turning a couple of
knobs, radio-fashion. But about this
secret of attachment—l discovered it in
my youth when I partnered a lass dressed
as a harem-girl to the Artists’ Ball. She
had trouble with a little silver star which
kept falling off her tummy. She
informed it was not the fault of the glue
she had used, but my style of dancing,
which had shaken the star from its
heavenly body.
❖ ♦> *
“Mac Hoots”: But surely, “Mac Toots,”
when you are addressing hermaphrodites
you say “Dear Sir and Madam”?
❖ * *
Remington Rand: As “Hadrian” says
(B. 25/4/’56), some exciting behind-the-
scenes negotiations are normal when we
organise beard-shaving demonstrations.
Quite understandably, the subject suffers
from stage-fright. This is almost invari-
ably cured by some quick shots of Dutch-
courage, but I have always worried that
one day we will be confronted with a tee-
totaller who has the jitters. The least
difficult part is actually shaving the beard
off. For the persons who do this work
it offers a strange fascination, as one has
seldom the faintest idea what is beneath
“Keep going— -We ve got right-of-way
the hirsute growth—in fact, some of our
employees have developed a taste for
beard-shaving which must equal that of
an archaeologist about to open-up a
recently-discovered tomb. We are willing
to shave any beard, free of charge. We
only offer a financial inducement when
this operation is to be carried out in front
of a group of gawking sceptics.
❖ *X* *
“Arthur R.”: Was checking figures
with another clerk while two painters
were on slings painting the window of
the room. They seemed interested as
a syllable in each number was emphasised
—“For-he-one,” “Twen-h'e-four,” and
so on. During a pause a voice came
clearly from the open window. “Joe,
chuck us the blood -die put -tie.”
“Wusslean”: Twenty-five years ago I
used to walk the mile-and-a-quarter from
Melbourne’s Flinders-street railway-
station to the University and back, to
save tram-fare. Twopence would buy
a newspaper, post a letter, or buy a
couple of buttered bread-rolls. Present
students are to ask Melbourne Univer-
sity Council to construct a car-park in
the University grounds, at an estimated
cost of £5OOO.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Charybdis”: A Sydney journalist who
has set up house in the middle of acres
of mountainous forestry through which
he is still reluctantly building a road,
and who never invites people to drop in
and see him except with malice afore-
thought, broke in on a morning-tea dis-
cussion of the season’s plenitude of
flies and mosquitoes with the remark that
they never worried him where he was.
“Probably couldn’t find their way there,”
remarked one of his friends who had
tried.
♦I 4 ❖
“Figaro”: I saw in a Sydney tram a
lad of 18 with his hair crew-cut on top
and, grown long at the sides, trailed round
to fold like wings in a line along the
nape of the neck; recalling a
short-haired hairbrush tied to
the head with hirsute ribbon:
a footballer with a taste for
Mozart, perhaps. The trailed-
hair style is copied from the
hair-dos of London liveried
footmen at the middle of last
century, who also, as may be
seen in “Punch,” parted their
hair down the nape of the neck
and brushed it out sideways
from the part —maybe this is
a joy in store for us.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: Have just been
reading Henry Fielding’s
Joseph Andrews, wherein one
of the characters wins a prize
of £3OOO in a lottery—in the
17th century! It seemed a
mammoth prize for those days ;
probably the new Government-
run “lottery” in Britain won’t
be offering much bigger prizes.
But I was even more surprised
to read in the same book of a
husband recovering the like sum (three-
grand) for the loss of his wife from the
man who had seduced away her affec-
tions. Surely even in these inflationary
days few wives would bring so much at
public sedauction?
❖ »>
“Mac Hoots”: May I, without false
modesty, record how for once I squashed
a Sydney bar-fly? He sidled up to me
when I was buying a bottle of wine on
Wynyard station. “Look at that,” he
muttered hoarsely, displaying an imita-
tion-pearl necklace ; “there’s value! ”
“I’m sorry, old boy,” I said ; “I’ve just
wasted all my money on alcohol.”
“You’re telling me!” he said, with a rue-
ful grin that recognised me as a brother;
and, without one word of argument, slid
off.
>*♦ ***
“Pip Tok”: A little old lady entered a
big Perth store and told a shop-
assistant that she had authority to check
all £5-notes taken over the counter. There
were only four fivers in the till. She gave
the assistant an 1.0. U. and walked off
with them. The C. 1.8. wants to meet
her.
* * *
“Doynest”: Twelve months ago
Camberwell Council (Vic.), to clarify the
authority of its Mayor, passed a resolu-
tion: “That any instruction given by the
Mayor of this city to an officer of the
council shall be obeyed unconditionally.”
A couple of weeks back the City Fathers
wondered whether they hadn’t gone a
little too far, and the resolution was
rescinded by unanimous vote, including
that of the Mayor. So now, instead of a
Must-mayor, he’s a May-or-may-not.
❖ ❖ ♦>
'T’HE girls in the tube-room were pro-
voked by the short temper of Cyril
in the hardware, his habit of flapping
the return-trap when waiting for change
from money sent up the tube. The flap-
ping sent shock-waves back along the
pipes to explode in thunderclaps in the
room where the girls were busily receiv-
ing accounts and dispatching change. If
Cyril received the wrong change, back
would go a note questioning their school-
ing ; and if Cyril was at fault unflattering
correspondence rocketed contrarywise
along the tubes. The girls became rather
spiteful and personal in their jet-propelled
notes. Cyril tottered; then landed a
guided-missile direct into the enemy's
camp which sent the six girls running and
squealing out of their room, and immo-
bilised the store’s monetary system for
fully half-an-hour. Cyril was on the mat
in the staff-manager’s office. “It was this
way, sir,” Cyril explained. “I happened
to catch a mouse alive in my fixtures, and
not knowing how to dispose of it, thought
how it would be appreciated among the
she-cats in the change-room. So I placed
it in the money-cylinder and sent it up
the tube.” Cyril was severely cautioned,
but did not blue his job, and thereafter
was left in peace by the change-room
girls.—“C.A.L.”
SWEET AUBURN...!
Did you hear of the concert of the Port
Jackson Band ?
They were giving it on Sunday to give
charity a hand,
But encountered opposition from a man
in command.
Yes, arriving on a Sunday night at
Auburn Town Hall x
They met a man who asked them,
“What’s the purpose of this call?
There ain’t gonna be any concert at all!”
There was six hundred customers
a-waiting to get in;
Six hundred teenagers with pockets full
of tin.
But the band said, “We’re sorry; the
concert won’t begin.”
Then they moved off to the park with a
smile of disdain,
And gave their hotcha concert in the
cold and the rain
While the people danced and listened, .
and didn’t complain.
Well, maybe I’m pernickety and maybe
I’m old,
But I wish people living with me could
be told :
“If youse want pops-sessions listen out
in the cold !
“For your mother won’t let me have
Corelli about,
And I can’t play Debussy until she goes
out,
Yet these thrushes can shriek and those
crooners can shout!
“Our only hit-session lasts all the week-
end —
If the Cromwell at Auburn was only my
friend
I might.learn from him to keep jazz-fans
in thrall
And silence my flat like that Auburn
Town Hall.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A|ELBOURNE COUNCIL is changing
■*■*-*• the name of Menzies-alley, a small
street in the Elizabeth-, Latrobe-, Little
Lonsdale- and Swanston-street block,
to Menzies-place at the request of a
printing-firm which finds its address
confused with Menzies-lane. (The
printers probably find an alley address
irksome on a letterhead, too.) Alley
(from “ aller ”: to go) has a highly res-
pectable derivation, and there would be
no sniffing over it if Melbourne’s little
streets became, as they should to avoid
the present cumbersome titles, Collins-
lane, Bourke-lane and ' Lonsdale-lane.
And Menzies-place may be just as con-
fusing ; for although Liberals and
Laborites both know where it should be,
they might not direct you to the same
place.—“Symonym.”
❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Clouds of what I took to be
smoke were pouring out of the church
door, so I pushed through the sacred
portals to offer my assistance. It was
dust, not smoke, raised by members of
the Ladies’ Guild as they cleaned-up the
premises. “You may well look sur-
prised,” remarked the wife of a prominent
barrister, pausing to rest on her broom.
“The cleanbr’s lit-out. She’s done
what I’ve never been able to do —saved
enough to go on a trip to Europe.”
*+*
“Opsimath”: “Sherry? Yessir,” said
our obliging local Bung. “You can have
dark—that’s sweet; or light—that’s dry.
Or if you like something half-and-half,
between the two, I’ve got a nice
armadillo.”
♦l* ♦> *l*
“Rostand”: “Non-political” often
appears on dodgers and notepaper-
headings as an inducement to increase
a group’s membership. On joining a
literary group—strictly non-political, I
was assured—l was very surprised to
hear a Communistic article read later
in the evening. I protested at the broken
rule and was told by a suave committee-
member that the term meant the club
had no “special politics”—it was open to
all views. Apparently, as the only stories
and articles that were read had the same
brand, no other contributors had any
talent.
❖ ❖
“Eureka”: On Saturday evening I just
caught the end of a radio-commentator’s
session. “And now a thought for the
future,” he said. I waited for the quota-
tion from Shakspeare or text from the
Bible. It was a tip for the dogs.
►> ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: Don’t be too sure, “T.J.”
(B. 9/5/’56), that no-iron shirts for men
free the little woman from toil! At
their first appearance on the Brisbane
market I blued most of that week’s
housekeeping on three. But the beastly
things have to be hand-washed, and
since I can never decide which is the
worse of the two wash-iron evils, nobody
in this house is any better off.
+X+ *t* 4+
♦
“Narumee”: An American journal has
a story of the investigation of returned
“turncoat” p.-0.-w. of the Korea
campaign by psychologists. A “com-
posite” picture of a “turncoat” was con-
structed, by which he was ‘shown to have
a sense of insecurity arising from a
broken home, and also a relatively low
I.Q. One glaring exception puzzled the
investigators— -a young sergeant who typi-
fied the composite “turncoat” in every
respect save that he had not turned his
coat, but had shown the highest courage
in resisting his Chinese captors. How did
the experts cope with that one? “Sure
he was brave. He was a fanatic. If he’d
been on the other side, he’d have been
just as strong for them.” So there!
* *l* *>
“Wusslean”: When young Wusslean
came home from school with his new
glasses in two parts the usual inquest
took place. “The dashed thing just fell
apart when I opened it,” he said. But
I was puzzled to account for it, as the
hinge itself had snapped clean through.
“That’s easy, Dad,” he explained;
“metal-fatigue.”
“Buskin”: It really
looks as if a theatri-
cal revival is under
way—in Melbourne,
at least. “Kismet,”
one of the best-
dressed and costliest
musicals of recent
years, has hit-up a
record season at
Melbourne’s Prin-
cess Theatre with
over 200 perform-
ances. Previous best
was “The O’Brien
Girl.” “The Boy
Friend,” after a
rather shaky start at
Her Majesty’s, was
still doing nice busi-
ness when it had to
make way for the
Borovansky Ballet.
The Union Theatre
—professional rep.—
has packed pews for
even the starchiest
offerings, and down
at The Arrow for the
first time in years
they’ve had to resur-
rect the “House
Full” sign for “Job
for the Boy.” And
the new Little
Theatre is opening
for business in July.
Practically all this
has been achieved
without the draw or stimulus of costly
importees. Maybe there was something
in that “local talent” plaint, after all.
❖’ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: At one of Melbourne’s
largest hospitals I was asked a one-shil-
ling visitors’ fee; then, feeling a bit of
a victim myself, I was admitted to my
friend the patient.
❖ ❖
“D.J.G.”: When Melbourne milkbars
raised their charges by another penny to
a bob or Is. Id. for a milk-shake there
were claims that milkbar-proprietors were
on their last legs, that dairyfarmers
were operating at a loss ... A small
suburban dairy in our neighborhood has
changed hands for seventy-six thousand
pounds.
❖ ❖ ***
“S’Berry”: Finding the locks faulty,
Girl-in-the-office rejected two new cash-
boxes. A third one, after checking, she
accepted. Then she hid the keys and
taped-over the keyhole. Because, you
see, “It’s just to keep things in. It must
never be locked!”
♦3* *3*
“Narumee”: The Victorian Govern-
ment’s bill to prevent exploitation of
those seeking homes or land will fill a
need. A woman, a fairly recently-arrived
migrant, visited a much-advertised estate,
paid a deposit on a lot, and was told a
contract would be prepared. In a day or
two a representative of the agents, bear-
ing a contract comprising four closely-
printed pages, came to her home and
intimated that if the customer did not
“... and in conclusion, it is our earnest hope that you will soon find
yourselves completely assimilated into our community."
sign pronto her lot might not be held.
She said she would sign, but only if her
solicitor approved the contract. The rep-
resentative had a hurried telephone-
consultation with his boss. There was a
categorical refusal to allow the solicitor
to scan the contract. My acquaintance
telephoned her solicitor, and he forcibly
confirmed her decision not to sign. She
didn’t. And she got her deposit back.
But others haven’t been so strong-
minded or so lucky.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Baggyduds”: Army establishment, at
battalion-level, provides two N.C.O.
postal-orderlies, but early in the life of
intake-1/54 af E-company, 19 Bn., Hols-
worthy, many complaints were lodged
about letters posted and not delivered.
Then the battalion fire-officer, after his
inspection of fire-equipment, landed back
at the orderly-room with a couple-of-
hundred sodden letters and about 15-bob
in small change. The boys had been
stuffing letters, plus postage-cover, into
the gaping mouth of the red-and-white-
painted box which housed the fire-hose
and hydrant.
♦♦♦ *
“Rimutuka”: Kids round Brisbane
are mad about a German kite which
collapses and folds-up when not in use.
The makers maintain it will climb to
27,000 ft.
*3* ❖
“Pevin”: A business-firm which avoids
duplication of work in typing addresses
by sending out all its correspondence in
window-fronted envelopes had printed
boldly in red on the covers to contain
letters: “Letter—Please Open Immedi-
ately.”
♦++ +> ♦>
“Henham”: Habit dies hard with
Sydney’s train-travellers. The line to
Penrith has been electrified since January,
but this doesn’t prevent a lot who join
the evening train that starts at Central
from referring to it as the “5.28 steam,”
adding, if they think clarification
necessary, “the one with the electric-
locomotive.”
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: What’s wrong with
painted kerosene-tins as containers of
ferns at A.B.C. concerts in Sydney Town
Hall (B. 9/5/’56)? After all, there is no
more typically Australian utensil than the
kero.-tin ; it cooked food, boiled clothes,
sank wells and, cut open and flattened-
out, roofed shacks and in many ways
served the pioneers—so our Civic Fathers
should be thanked rather than blamed
for displaying like initiative and
economy.
❖ *x* ♦>
“Fife”: In one of our Queensland
sporting-clubs, two members, both pro-
fessional men, have similar Christian-
names and surnames. To avoid con-
fusion, one, a medical man, answers to
his title of “Doctor,” while the second,
a somewhat portly, genial soul and keen
amateur-anglerf, answers cheerfully to
“Mudguts.”
THE PIN-BACK GIRL
“Girls with too-prominent ears have f° un d
the short hair-do an embarrassment but it need
be no longer. A new, simply-applied, flesti-
colored fixative will keep unruly ears closely
and surely to the head, and it is very difficult
to detect.” —Womens mogoznie.
A pair of long-lashed, limpid eyes the
cutie . ,
May pridefully possess ; a dimpled
chin — , ~ ,
Last touch to_ lovely face; of flawless
beauty
Her finely-textured, lightly-ohve skin ;
Her brows twin arches, pruned with great
precision;
Glossed hair in which the highlight oft
appears —
Yet how may these achieve for her
Elysian
Bliss, when the effect’s brought to
derision
By water-wing ears?
Although now by the haute coiffure
derided
As dowdy, out-of-date, it’s evident
The “bob” of shoulder-length at least
provided
A hiding-place for lugs too prominent.
The “bun” style, with the hair drawn
back so tightly,
Served the same advantageous purpose,
though,
To be sure, it WAS a bit unsightly.
Came the short bob. Some gals took it
—and rightly —
As quite a blow.
Auricular appendages unruly
Can get no camouflage from beret
small
Such as they could from' cartwheel-hat
or coolie —
It was enough to raise a damsel’s gall!
All’s changed now, with this fixative.
And, by all
The rules (although you’ll find ’em in
no book),
It’s fair enough. Ears needn’t be a trial.
Just glue them back, my dear, and give
the dial
The streamlined look!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The qualification “only” bobs up four
times in the record of Robert Gee, of
Perth, who, at 80, is the only octogenarian
of the seven V.C. winners from W.A. to
go to London for the V.C.-centenary
celebrations. He’s also the only British
Regular Army V.C. in the party, the only
former member of the British House of
Commons, and the only one with an
arrow-wound recorded in his medical-
history sheet. The arrow-wound was
notched during service in West Africa.
After 27 years in the Royal Fusiliers, Gee
transferred to the Royal West Kent
during the Kaiser’s war. Other episodes in
the adventure-serial were a captaincy,
winning V.C. and M.C. in France,
capture by the enemy, and escape from a
German p.-0.-w. camp. After the war he
represented East Woolwich in the House
of Commons until he came to Westralia
in 1927. Until mounting years compelled
retirement, he held an administrative job
with a big business-firm in Perth.
LIEUT. - COMMANDER GEORGE
JUDE, C.O. 808 SQUADRON,
H.M.A.S. MELBOURNE.
Members of all parties have been
giving Major Bill Ruthven, whose friends
call him Rusty, a series of rousing send-
otfs before he goes off to join the
Victorian V.C.s in London. Citation:
“For the most conspicuous bravery and
initiative in action.” During an Australian
advance in France on the village of Ville-
sur-Ancre in 1918, he took command after
his company had suffered many casualties
from machine-gun fire at short range.
Sgt. Ruthven sprang out, threw a bomb,
rushed the position, bayoneted one of the
crew, and captured the gun.
An A.L.P. member, Bill Ruthven won
Preston from the Liberals in 1945, and
has held his seat in the Preston-
Reservoir area ever since, substantially
because of personal prestige. He was
Government Whip under John Cain, but
he has no real liking for the elbowing of
politics—an explanation, in part, of his
unusual general popularity in the Vic-
torian Assembly.
• •
“El V.”: George Rich, who' has passed on
at 93, was a judicial character comparable with
the great English Victorians of the Bench, a
man about whom anecdotes might be whispered
at the Bar a century hence.
Educated at Sydney Grammar and Sydney
University, he was called to the Bar in 1887,
when there were still men practising who had
seen N. S. Wales attain to responsible
government, and one or two who could
remember the first Chief Justice, Forbes. He
carried with him to the end an aroma of his
legal youth, when Wise, Want, Dailey and
Barton were great names, and when advocacy
was of a more rugged and colorful type.
George Rich became a K.C. and an N.S.W
Supreme Court judge in the same year (1911)
and two years later went to the High Court
Bench. He was a Challis lecturer in law at
Sydney University in his earlier years, and in
1922 was one of the first Australian delegates
to the League of Nations, In 1932 he was made
a K.C.M.G., in 1936 a member of the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council.
He was good company, unconventional in a
dignified way, and an excellent raconteur and
conversationalist. A regular reader of The
Bulletin, whose address for many years he
visited socially when in the mood, he was widely
travelled, making his last journey abroad at 87,
and he knew his London as well as he knew
Sydney. He was one of the few Australian
residents m the membership of the Athcmeum.
As to his habits, he liked old customs best.
Once the writer travelled with him on a tram—
a mode of transport he often affected —from
the DarJinghurst courts, when a difficulty arose
between a passenger and conductor over
pennies for a fare. The travellers were then
treated to the spectacle -of Justice the Rt.
Hon. Sir George Rich, P.C., K.C.M.G., K.C.,
a stocky, unobtrusive figure, reaching for a
very small purse in a remote pocket, solemnly
selecting two pennies from one compartment
and two halfpennies from another, and as
solemnly stowing a battered thruppenny
received in exchange in a third. He clasped the
purse firmly and, waving it at an intent audi-
ence, exclaimed genially: “The recipe for
affluence.”
o •
From C. R. Watson: Leon Jungsch-'
lager, whose tragic death has been noted
in The Bulletin, was well known
to many in Australia. He was adjutant to
120 N.E.I. Squadron, R.A.A.F., whose
Kittyhawks trained at Canberra in 1943
and later operated from Merauke and
Biak with Dutch pilots and Australian
ground-staff. His wife lived at Clifton
Gardens (Sydney) for two years while
their son John was at school at River-
view.
As the squadron M. 0., I knew him
well, and we all held him in high esteem.
For some weeks prior to his shameful
death I tried to interest various Sydney
newspapers in the fact that a man who
had fought for, and with, Australians was
being tried with total disregard of the
principles of civilised justice. Our news-
papers failed to realise the international
import of his trial, let alone the vital
bearing it has on our own future.
Many Australians who were in the
Merauke area of Dutch 'Mew Guinea
during the last war will remember Leon
Junschlager, and mourn his passing.
Many more, who do not know his name,
will be better informed about our near
neighbors from reading the excellent
summary of his infamous trial that was
included in “Uncabled Additions” (B.
16/5/’56).
• •
Husband and wife, Albert and Barbara
Main, collected a Ph.D. apiece at this
year’s graduation-ceremony at the W.A.
University. Both zoologists, he haunts the
swamps around Perth and collects frogs
for research, she concentrates on spiders.
Her collection includes specimens which
are not found outside Westralia.
• •
Regius Professor of Physiology at
Cambridge, Sir Lionel Whitby is here as
Sims Travelling Professor for 1956;
specialist in bacteriology and diseases of
the blood. During World War II he
was consultant-haematologist to the
British Army and Ministry of Supply. He
says spectacular advances had been
made in haematology during the past 10
years, but no headway has been made
against leukemia. Accompanied by his
wife (also a medico), he will make a
lecturing and clinic-conducting tour of all
Australian States and of New Zealand.
• •
William James Falconer,' F.F.A.,
general-manager of T. and G. Mutual
Life Society, was born in Scotland, went
T. AND G. GENERAL-MANAGER
to school in Edinburgh, joined the
Scottish Widows’ Fund and Life Assur-
ance Society in 1928, and went to T. and
G. as assistant-actuary in 1937. He
stepped-up from actuary when S. W.
Coates passed on late last year. He’s 44.
P. D. (“Paddy”) Mac Nab, from Inver-
ness (Scotland), one of the best-known
Turf figures of New Zealand, is calling it
a day after 42 years as course-manager
and starter. When he entered the service
of the Canterbury Jockey Club in 1914 he
set about the development of the Ric-
carton course. Now, with tree-approach
and general lay-out, the grounds rank
among the finest in the Empire. Before
he went to New Zealand, via South
Africa, he’d qualified as a horticulturist at
Edinburgh Botanic Gardens. He con-
siders Beaumaris the greatest horse he
ever started, Warstep, Gloaming and
Kindergarten, trailing in that order.
• •
“Allan B.”: Ronald Clive Kerle, made
an Anglican bishop the other day in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral (he becomes third
Coadjutor-Bishop of Sydney), is a Chats-
wood (Sydney) boy, went to school in that
suburb, at North Sydney Boys’ High and
Wagga High, took his theological degree
at Moore College, and also majored in
Arts in English and History. Ordained
in 1940, curate at Redfern and Ryde
same year, and took-over as rector of
Kangaroo Valley the following year.
Rector of Kembla 1942-47, within which
period he was an A.I.F. chaplain. After
Kembla, he was N.S.W. secretary of the
Church Missionary Society—he’d seen
something of missionary work at first
hand when he was a padre with the
2/28th Bn. in New Britain and Borneo,
towards the climax of the Pacific show.
In 1954 he became rector of Summer
Hill, in succession to Archdeacon Hulme
Moir, who went to New Zealand as the
new Bishop of Nelson.
• •
From successful farmer to top busi-
ness-executive maps the career of 54-
S.A. BUSINESSMAN AND FARMER
year-old Ossie Heinrich. A third-genera-
tion S.A. farmer, he brought scientific
methods to bear on his property in the
Maitland district there, and in 1934 did
some outstanding work in the reclama-
tion of land affected by salt-patches. A
pioneer also of mechanisation on the land
in S.A., he became a member of the State
Advisory Board of Agriculture, and later
a member of the Advisory Board of
C.5.1.R.0. In 1947 he was made a direc-
tor of Horwood Bagshaw, Ltd., the 100-
year-old agricultural-machinery firm,
and in 1954 became joint managing-
director. He has three farming brothers
—two in S.A., the other in W.A.
• •
“D.”: Wallace H. Smith, the Collins-
street stockbroker, is the man primarily
responsible for another Australian com-
pany, King Island Scheelite (1947), Ltd.,
hitting the million-a-year mark. The
company has announced a profit of
£1,014,661: The diminutive octo-
genarian backed the show
through all its post-war difficulties
in labor, mining-setbacks, housing and
shipping, and his following, reputed to be
the strongest in mining in the nation, have
another sure - thing dividend - winner.
Wallace Smith is a millionaire, or at least
a very sound £BOO,OOO man. His earlier
successes include Loloma and Emperor,
and the spectacular Zircon Rutile ; and he
has been closely associated with Tom
Victor, the mining-engineer, whose per-
centage of profitable ventures is very
high ; he turns down 19 in 20.
*
Norman Williams, 39, originally from
Brisbane, looked in at Thl Bulletin
office in Sydney the other day—he now
makes maps behind the tall wall of glass
of the big United Nations building in
New York.
He liked mapping as a schoolboy;
when scarcely more than that, landed a
U.N. MAPMAKER
job (when jobs were hard to get) in the
Queensland Survey Office ; had a com-
mission in the Royal Australian Survey
Corps in War 11, and practised his craft
in New Guinea and thereabouts—inci-
dentally, mapping a good part of the
Queensland coast with the aid of
Matthew Flinders’s Admiralty charts!
Senior cartographic draughtsman at
the National Mapping Office in Canberra,
he put in an application for the U.N. job
when the vacancy was circularised
around the world. Request for speci-
mens of work had him a bit worried, he
said. For some time his work had been
mainly administrative. Now he works
with a Uruguayan, an Egyptian, two
Frenchmen, two Danes, a Palestinian
and an American, turning-out maps for
delegates at conferences —as an example
of this sort of work, the cease-fire line
in Korea —and jobs for various U.N.
agencies. The work is .tied-in pretty
closely, too, with U.N. technical assist-
ance to various countries.
There are five official languages in
U.N. publications English, French,
Spanish, Russian and Chinese. Making
a map for Libyan schoolchildren is an
example of the sort of problem that crops
up ; Arabic had to be used.
• o
John Robert MacGillivray has called
it a day after 47 years with E., S. and A.
in South Aus. He joined the bank at
Mount Gambier in 1909, was on Gallip.
as a sergeant-major. in the 9th Light
Horse, became manager of his first
branch Terowie at . 24, and was
manager of Clare branch for 17 years
before going to Pulteney - street
(Adelaide), where he remained up to his
retirement.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 63, Joseph Ignatius Carroll,
managing-director of Email, Ltd. (“Emmco”),
and a driving-force in Australian industry for
a generation. A D.C.M.-winner in World War
1, he was with after-effects throughout
his life. He was horn in South Australia, and
played Australian Rules football as a young
man. Last year he became a member of Sydney
Cricket Ground Trust. Company boards of
which he was a member, outside that which
represented his life-work, included Amalgamated
Wireless, Kandos Cement and Amalgamated
Television Pty.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 82, Sir Hugh
T. D. A. Acland. He was a native of Christ-
church, his mother a daughter of the Harper
who was the city’s first bishop. A surgeon
in the Boer War and both World Wars, sub-
marined in War I, when troopship Marquette
went down, he was a foundation-fellow of the
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.
Knighted in 1933.
In Perth, at 78, Thomas Herbert Hogue,
nephew of former N.S.W. politician J. "A.
Hogue, cousin of Oliver (“Trooper Bluegum”)
Hogue. An all-round cricketer, he joined North
Fremantle shortly after hjs arrival from Sydney
in 1906, transferring later to Fremantle, with
which club he played for the rest of his
pennant-cricket career. He scored a century
and did the hat-trick in his first game in W.A.,
played for the State for several years, and
toured the eastern States with a Westralian
side in 1912.
In Melbourne, at 58. Archibald Fraser, senior
partner in the stevedoring firm of E. P. and A.
Fraser. He was a well-known angler and keen
racing-man, part-owner of recent Flemington
winner Parthenope.
At Geelong (Vic.), at 69. Alex Eason, former
star V.F.L, rover with Geelong and Footscray
after World War I. He was on his way to see
Geelong play Richmond when he collapsed.


Of TUB FIPoQ
OF fO&EP FN£R$
(5 6A?fUti& anc?
Co*tf~&PV£BS ( A U
Qor LPMG?
1% M/SlFg/
Cs &$£ ro &£ Socsiep
THE BOMB AGAIN!


ABORIGINALITIES
/~\N its northern outskirts, somewhere
about the spot once called Dog
Swamp, Perth plans a satellite city. It
will be named Mirrabooka, with suburbs
Nollamara, Balga and Yirrigan. Not
all Westralia’s place-names sound, or are,
so genuinely aboriginal. There’s Gabbin
and Ygnattering, Walkaway and Wander-
ing. To go with Dry Soak, we have
Beermullah, and Capercup with Gin-Gin,
Narrogin and Mangowine. Jingalup,
Neerabub and Kuminin sound inviting,
too. Manurup and Muckinbudin would
fit any agricultural setting. Then, along,
with Geeralying, Kokerbin, Kronkup,
Gidgegannup, Gillangarra and Quininup,
there really is a place called Graball. —
“Apemantus.”
* * * *
“Jon Lyn”: I’ll nominate Dirk Hartog
as the most forgotten man in Australian
history. Wanting to check the spelling of
his name, I went confidently to the bio-
graphical section of Webster’s —a blank!
“Send for the Black Maria, Clancy—my feet are killing me."
The same with Everyman’s Encyclopedia
and Pears’; even the E. Britannica was
silent on the question of Dirk. Ran it to
earth in the index to the atlas of Britan-
nica—“ Dirk Hartog Island.”
* * * *
“West Wimmera”: Spotted a bulloak
backlog for my fireplace. Parading
leisurely along one side were several
large red meat-ants. I turned the log
over, and beneath it were about 30
buttercup-yellow termites, much brighter-
colored and at least two sizes larger than
those usually found hereabouts. Ter-
mites immediately made for shelter in
the tunnel leading to an underground-
nest, but the meat-ants rushed in, each
savagely grabbing one. Within a second,
those meaties were staggering drunkenly
about, after dropping their victims. Now,
do termites carry a meat-ant repellent
around with ’em, or were
the meat-ants too fastidious
to drag off a too-sweaty
termite? It was a hot day.
* * *
“Brolga”: When my dog
Nick caught a rabbit,
carried it over to a dam and
proceeded to dunk it I put
this down to the fact that
the first rabbit he had
caught had jumped into a
creek before he grabbed it.
But now Laddie, Nick’s
successor, does exactly the
same thing whenever he
bowls a bunny, laying it out
on the bank afterwards. I
put this up to the Abo.
Council for explanation.
Only clues: both dogs had
strong working - breeding,
and both were used to
swimming after sticks
thrown into the dams.
* * *
<r*
“Motuku”: A coucal we
kept here in Queensland
while it recovered after a
collision with a car would
go into a flat-spin and scramble for cover
whenever the door of its convalescent-
ward—the bathroom —was opened. It
became no tamer, attacking with beak
and claws anyone who went within
striking-distance. But, then, even
our half-tame kookaburras, magpies
and butcher-birds that will sit on
our knees and take food from our
fingers, are inclined to panic when
walled-in, and seem to lose all sense of
direction when we go near them, hurling
themselves at closed windows when there
are other windows and doors open. Now
we open all doors and windows and leave
them to find their own way out. Our
most stolid indoor-dweller is a veteran
kooka. who likes to snuggle in an eider-
down-quilt ; but even he likes to be
certain he can float out if he wants to.
* * * *
“Fairf”: So an oak plaque depicting
Moat House Cottage, Canley (Eng.)—
Sir Henry Parkes’s birthplace—is to be
presented to Parkes (N.S.W.) as a mem-
orial to the town’s namesake? Seems to
me it’s going to the wrong town. Canley
Vale, about 20 miles from Sydney, is
more deserving of the honor, since it was
named by Parkes after the Canley which
is now sponsoring the memorial. As a
boy I was shown a house on the bank
of Orphan School Creek, east of the
railway-line near Canley Vale station,
u° ld a< J been Sir Henry’s home.
Ihe house is no longer there, nor—to the
shame of the Civic Fathers—is there a
tablet or memorial on the site. What’s
more, I have never heard a Canleyite
mention Sir Henry in a possessive sense ;
in fact, it is doubtful whether one in a
thousand realises that the statesman ever
lived in, let alone named, the town.
Which is the reason, no doubt, why the
Parkes plaque goes to Parkes.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Had my doubts when I
found that my employer bore the
ominous nickname of “Hungry.” How-
ever, “speak as you find,” and I soon
found him a generous and easy-to-satisfy
boss. I said as much when I bumped my
informant at the district show. “It’s a
sort of hereditary title,” he grinned. “His
father used to fancy himself as a rough-
rider.” This didn’t make gense, either,
till I heard the full story. Senior used to
boast: “When I get on a buckjumper the
only thing that gets me off is starvation.”
Came the day when a neighbor chal-
lenged him to ride a prad that had piled
everyone on the place. Senior repeated
his boast, and accepted. He lasted just
eight seconds. “Thought the only thing
that could get you off was starvation,”
chiacked the prad’s owner. Senior spat
out a mouthful of dust; “I got hungry,”
'he said. As often happens, the title stuck,
and son inherited it,
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: Not only cattle-hair was
employed in old-time building-construc-
tion (B. 2/5/’56). Women convicts had
their hair cut off, not merely as an act
of punishment or for head-cleanliness
but because hair was needed in mixing
mortar. The tresses became a marketable
commodity, Government officials dispos-
ing of it to builders and plasterers by the
pound. A number of buildings in Par-
ramatta and Sydney, as well as in Hobart,
had human hair in the mortar.
* * * tl
“Fair Mac”: The neighbor nearest to
a weekender 1 visit is a retired parson,
so I was a little startled to notice a grow-
ing pile of dead-marines under his back-
veranda. Found that they were not of
his consuming—he collected ’em from the
highways and byways. Bottle-ohs don’t
visit that rural district, so there could be
no augmentation of a meagre pension
behind the gathering. I was baffled —
until he volunteered an explanation. He
is a keen gardener, and by encircling
susceptible plants with half-a-dozen
bottles stuck neck-down in the ground he
protects them against frost, provid-
ing each with its individual glasshouse-
temperature.
* * * #
“Gravelsnatcher,” birdwatching:
That our incubator-birds are “devoid of
parental instincts,” are hardly “beyond the
reptilian stage” in matters of reproduction,
and depend “on the heat generated by decay-
ing debris to hatch their eggs” (B. 25/4/’56)
isn’t borne out by my observation of a mallee-
hens’ mound during a breeding-season in the
Westralian wheatbelt. The team comprised at
least three birds, possibly more. They first
scratched-out the old mound to a depth of
about 3ft., then filled it with every scrap of
bark and 'leaf and twig within a 40yds.-radius.
That was in winter, a couple of months before
the first egg was laid, indicating some degree
of forethought. They didn’t bother much about
the mound for a fortnight, but after the first
good rains they turned-up in strength and
covered the debris with sand. The fermenting
vegetation, allied with the sun’s heat, certainly
provided the warmth for incubation, but I’d
say the birds knew that the temperature must
be kept within certain limits; and they ensured
this by testing daily, and regulating the heat
by opening the mound or covering it as needed.
On sunny days they’d scratch away the top few
inches to allow the sun’s rays to penetrate, but
they always returned and covered it over again
before evening. I saw some of the young emerge.
They burst through the surface, had a good
look around," and walked leisurely away. I
got the impression that they could look after
themselves; even so, the adults remained in the
vicinity of the mound, and as far as I could
see adults and chicks mingled as much as these
birds ever do. ( But they’re among our shyest
birds, and there’s still a lot to be learnt about
them.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: When “Salmon Gums’
claims (B. 2/5/’56) that birds sing mainly
to assert territorial rights and attract
mates, and not because they are happy
he has strong scientific backing ; but there
is more to be said. If birds don’t sing
because they are happy, they certainly
won’t sing when they are unhappy, or —
to avoid debatable ground —uncomfort-
able. Extremes of heat and cold, rain
or high wind, all tend to strike the song-
sters dumb. Again, when food is
scarce, so, too, are songs. The tremend-
ous avian-orchestra that normally greets
a new day may not signify jubilation,
but what, then, does it signify? Even if
the poets are entirely wrong, the scientists
have still a lot to explain. Certainly birds
reserve their brightest songs to captivate
a mate, and are very vocal in defence of
territory, but circumstances govern the
volume of even these vital outpourings.
A full belly and fine weather may not
mean avian happiness—l wouldn’t know
—but their absence certainly means fewer
songs.
* * * *
“8.W.M.”: My cobber from New
Guinea agrees that natives cannot get used
to considering murder a Serious crime.
There is the story of the native who had
committed a murder and left the body in
the middle of the roadway. In court the
judge, with the assistance of an inter-
preter, tried to impress on the accused
the seriousness of his crime, committed,
as it was,, on a Government highway.
The interpreter put it over like this:
“Judge, he say, next time you kill man,
iyou no kill him along Government road.
You take him off road into grass.”
* * * *
“N.J.C.”: We were crossing the pad-
dock when Laddie, our black-and-tan
sheep-dog, raced over to inspect the red-
gum. He had passed it and was about
50yds. further on when a black-and-
white object swooped down to attack
from the rear. Levelling-off, Maggie
swept along the unsuspecting Laddie’s
back with a swish and crack. Startled,
Laddie snapped blindly. Astonished, we
saw he held a flapping, squawking mag-
pie in his mouth. Hastily letting go,
Laddie hurried on while a dishevelled
and indignant magpie flew wildly up and
loudly proclaimed his disapproval from
the tree-top. After that, Mag kept a safe
distance, while Laddie gave the redgum a
wide berth.
* * * *
npHE farm on which I was bom carried
the whole range of fences marking
the progress of the pioneer-settlers, with
wire unknown.
The bush-paddock was still enclosed
by the original “rough-and-tumble” ; just
saplings and heavier branches piled in
line to resist big stock.
The main fencing was “chock-and-
log”: short, double-notched chocks on
the ground at right-angles to the line;
long, heavy logs (about 2ft. butts) laid
on the chocks, with overlap at the ends;
then notched-chocks across the log-ends,
and another line of logs on top of these
chocks.
There was the “upright” fence around
the 100-odd acres of cultivation, stock-
yards, pig-paddock and orchard. For
this, a 2ft. trench was dug along the
whole fence-line, and split-posts were
stood on end, touching in palisade-style,
and hard-rammed. Nothing bigger than
a mouse could get through.
Then came the “post-and-rail” along
the frontage, three split-rails mortised
into the posts, and round-pole post-and-
rails around the cow- and horse-yards.
And what artists those old boys were with
the mortising-axe! t
At the house-yard there were home-
sawn pickets, and the house and sheds
were mostly of pit-sawn planks, as were
the swing-gates on the frontage. Tools
were limited to axes, pick and shovel,
saw, and man-powered levers. There was
no mechanical-power at all.
Of all those fences, the chock-and-log
was the handiest, for it was also a grand
rabbit-trap. With Towser to locate the
hollow-logs that had bunny-tenants, and
a pole to poke them to within reach, a
good catch was assured at any time.
EMAIL.
TWO THOUSAND MILES AWAY
Last week we drove to Deumba, a happy
laughing load,
We picked the wild white guavas that grew
beside the road;
Ricefields stretched before us in a green and
shimmering haze,
And 1 saw on every hillside hibiscus-trees
ablaze.
But the homeward-hound Lakemba went sailing
past to-day,
And I’m homesick now for Sydnev, two-
thousand miles away.
Last weak the shops of Suva wove spells to
charm the eye,
Their glittering treasures held me—l could
not pass them by :
Fine silks and fragile saris, bright beads and
gold ear-rings,
Big hoops of shining bangles—so many
lovely things.
But, oh, the friendly bookshops, the first night
of a play
In crowded, clanging Sydney, two-thousand
miles away.
Last week the island nightfall was magical and
sweet,
I heard the housegirls singing in the darkness
of the street;
There was a sudden creaking from a million
small frog-throats,
And flares upon the water from the little
fishing-boats.
But tonight there is no music and, across
Laucala Bay,
I see the lights of Sydney gleam, two-thousand
miles away.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.


KEROSENE
Regd
PRESSURE
\\ I /
/ / 1
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT/N OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY £rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1C32 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1263.i2C
GEORGE, for whom today’s 40-hour
week is far too long, yearns for
the depression, when there were no
hours-of-work at all. Then, a group of
youths used to fill the idle hours at the
billiard-saloon, arriving around nine and
playing cards continuously till around
five. George’s friend Emil, on his way
to the saloon, was hailed by a vigneron:
“Get a gang together and I’ll give you
some work picking grapes.” Emil chose
George first, called him aside and gave
him the good news. George was highly
indignant: “Why pick me? I’m not the
only one out of work! ”—“Yabbaroo.”
* * * *
“Maitri”: Usually our cat’s keen on
ice-cream ; never been known to refuse
it until the last week or two. We tried
to work out why, and finally hit on it.
His old white saucer had been broken,
and we’d substituted a willow-patterned
one. So long as the stuff was doled-out
in this he simply turned up his nose and
walked off; as soon as we transferred it
to a white saucer, down it went with joy.
Fill the willow-patterned thing with milk
and he’ll lap away till the design appears ;
then he gives up in disgust.
* * * *
“Geep”: “Jemac” (B. 14/3/’56), with
his fly-observation, might solve a mystery
that puzzled our Air Force C.O. Toward
the end of a convivial evening in the mess
the grouper gazed reflectively at the
ceiling and said sadly: “I just don’t
know. Can anyone tell me? If that fly
there”—pointing towards the light—
“decides to land on the ceiling, does he go
into a loop and land facing the opposite
direction, or does he just do a half-roll
and touch-down facing the same way as
his approach?”
* * * *
“8 Div.”: Singapore, 1943. A work-
ing-party of Australian p.-0.-w. halted on
a muddy track while the Japs check num-
bers along the line. A Chinese in
immaculate white, riding a bicycle along
the slippery verge, provides a welcome
diversion to the bored, tired and hungry
prisoners. Their good-natured -chaff,
‘Don’t fall off,” “Keep your suit clean,”
etc., not appreciated by the Oriental
gentleman. He is already embarrassed
and flustered when the chain comes off
and he’s precipitated into the mud. All
face lost, utterly humiliated, he stoops
to replace the greasy chain. The fresh
outbursts of laughter and ribald remarks
are too much for him. He stands
proudly erect; his English is perfect, his
dignity eloquent: “Perhaps you forget—
I, also, am a British subject.” To which,
from the troops: “Cripes, mate, don’t
get us wrong! Here, let’s give you a
hand fix the bloody thing!”
* * * *
“Baggyduds”: In our Army outfit
“Alligator” got his monicker from the
incredible rapidity with which he put
away food and drink, his own or any-
one else’s; “King’s Cross” was addicted
to cheap wine when he went on benders ;
“The Camel,” whenever he hit a pub,
tried to store-up enough for a desert-
crossing ; two identical-twin brothers
named Bower were “Left” and
“Right,” and an older brother
was “The Joker”: “Captain
Bligh,” a landlubber, told out-
rageous stories of his imaginary
deeds on the high seas;
“Goner” was a perfectionist
in the ack-willie routine;
“Wiggler,” an R.S.M. unable to
pronounce the letter “r,” fre-
quently entreated the troops to
“Stop wiggling in the weer
wanks!”' I may as well confess
that my pen-name derives from
inability to lend elegance to
Army clobber.
* * *'
“Quo Vadis”: As the irriga-
tion-waters flooded over the
plants the remaining little
island of dry earth quivered
and erupted, and the big gun-
metal-brown cricket emerged,
paddling furiously to the
channel-edge. When I put him
in a jar for nature-study he
moulted! The old skin split
lengthwise above the head, and
a new creature appeared. The
abdomen was almost trans-
parent, the chest and half-wings
were deep-cream ; the underneath-body
was golden. The cast-off shell was an
exact hollow replica, even to such details
as antennas, eyes and cerci. It took half-
an-hour to completely shrug-off the old
skin; the whole skin-color darkened
slowly, and the body gradually hardened
in the air. With his new musical ensemble
of wing-scraper and file, he’ll play
inspired cricket-music tonight.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Though the web in
ducks’ feet has expanded to give greater
purchase on the water, this doesn’t mean
that the web is a handicap on land,
because the duck has remained essentially
a three-toed bird, with the fourth toe a
small unit well up the foot at the back,
and not connected by the web. Indeed
I’ll back the duck against most birds on
the hoof. It gets a great part of its
food in the shallows and along the shores,
and it spends more time on its feet than
most birds. Take a duck 10 miles from
water and clip its wings, and it’ll reach
the drink in good shape ; what other
bird amongst the flyers could do as well?
If you’re looking for poor walkers,
don’t search among the swimmers, but
among the great birds of the air. Ever
seen an eagle walking? Oi a hawk?
Like a cat on hot bricks.
* * * *
“Ochrogaster”: Top names in Rugby
League footy may well think those silken
bags on the coolibahs inland are full of
banknotes, not caterpillars. One big-
city player’s request to the small-but-
rich country town was that, instead of
coaching-fees, he be given a motor-car
“ Dadda-a-a !”
(in advance), free board and lodging for
wife and self and a job for the season,
He got the lot. •
* * *
“C.R.”: “Mugga Way” (B. 25/4/’56)
asks “Will the great new rice-growing
project for the Northern Territory use
K 3 . f , • r. J ■
the rice-straw for making fine nee-
paper? The so-called rice-paper is
not made from nee or the rice plant; it
comes from the pith of a shrub with the
scientific monicker Fatsia papynfera
which grows in the swampy forests of
Formosa.
t # #
“Telepho”: “Saaedi” remarks that
records of parrot mimicry are scanty
(B. 11/4/ ’56). Here in Monash, a
Murray River dried-fruit area, I vainly
sought the young magpie that swarked
and swarked. After getting a near-kink
in the neck, I caught sight of a pair of
Derwent Jacks in a near-by mallee.
One was going its hardest at the food-call
of the fowl that adorns South Oss’s
coat-of-arms.
“8.A.K.”: Another historical building
passes as demolishers knock-down the
home built in Phillip-street, Sydney, near
Martin-place, by John .Starkey, pioneei
cordial-manufacturer. The old place
looked every day of its 110 years, but in
its heyday must have been magnificent,
with its 12in.-skirtings, moulded archi-
traves, solid-panelled doors and fine stair-
case, all of cedar. Termites, more than
time, ruined the big two-story house:
from basement to ridge the timbers (even
some of the cedar, which termites are
not overfond of) had been ravaged, some
reduced to an eggshell-thin veneer encas-
mere pulp The original wooden
®£ ing Jf s , w f re stl on ! ie a t °! Jg .
! he y had been covered with
iron, which, m turn, had deteriorated,
to coll the iath-and-
laster J eilings . The ce dar staircase was
bought by an historical-minded woman,
bm the tentative buyer of the seven
fluted cast . iron columns that supported
the front _ ba i cony has a i ot of competi-
tion. Possibly the name “P. N. Russel &
C 0.,” cast prominently on each base,
enhances the columns’ antique-value.
Russel is recognised as having been the
father of iron-casting in Australia.
MAROOCHY RIVER AT NIGHT
My boat speeds down the river
As the clouds across the sky;
I look down to the water,
Smooth-clear and speeding by.
In the river the clouds float
As past the moon they go;
And in my little boat
Down the deep sky I row,
And I think of my loved one, mirrored
In my heart, even so . . .
QUEENSLAND.
MARTIN HALEY.


INSTRUMENTS
to build
Australia’s
future...
r
SB;
mmm
III!
1
s I
Instruments and equipment from Esdailes are
playing a big part in building Australia’s future
—including the supply of the major propor-
tion of Surveying and Drafting instruments
used in the great Snowy River project.
Specialists in the optical field for almost 70
years and leaders in the supply of all types of
Agricultural, Meteorological, Industrial and
Technical Instruments, Esdaile’s have the
“know-how” and the specialised workshops
and staff to supply YOUR most exacting
requirements.
Illustrated here are but a few of the many items
available: “Sirius" Minor Dumpy jLevel, Minimum-
Maximum and Wet and Dry bulb Thermometers,
Kain gauge, Slide rule and Drawing and Drafting
instruments and equipment. Also available is a wide
range of Binoculars, Telescopes, Steel and Metallic
tapes and all necessary instruments for the farmer.
Write or ’phone for full details or advice concerning YOUR
particular need or problem.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
53 FLINDERS ST., ADELAIDE.
8W8631.
W 2484.
Business.Rolleuy.Etc
Sober Notes
A MORE sober note in the
Australian economy con-
tinues, despite a false hooray
from a leading Australian wool-
broker early last week that
proceeds of the wool - clip
this season might reach
£358 million £6 million
more than last season’s cheque.
The error, which was hurriedly
corrected, is one of those things
that can happen in the best-
regulated statistical departments.
Revised estimates from the firm
put the wool-cheque at £320
million, or £32 million below the
previous season’s.
Heavy taxation-collections
continue, and show-up in the
banking returns for April. After
rising for six months, bank-
deposits dropped £ll4 million in
April, while advances increased
£9 million. A good deal of tax-
money collected recently has
gone into the retirement of
Treasury-bills, thus tending to
correct an inflationary condition
that developed earlier in the
financial year.
Another factor tending to
make money tight in Australia
is the shearer’s strike, which
is most troublesome in Queens-
land. It is holding-up realisations
and increasing the need for
finance by pastoralists, as well
as affecting the trade-balance.
Our overseas funds have
increased a little lately, but not
as much as if wool-shipments
were at normal level.
Mark Foy’s and Goldsbrough
Mort have announced cuts in
their div.-rates. Among old-
established companies to report
lower profits over the past week
were Fairymead Sugar, Anthony
Hordern and Wunderlich. The
two latter cos. balance on Feb-
ruary 28 ; the first on December
31. In most cases, of course,
accounts are not made up to the
end of next month, and there
have been only interim reports
to study in such cases.
Among cos. to report on a
full year’s activities to December
31, Email announced a fall in
profits, as was to be expected
from a concern operating prin-
cipally in the electrical trade.
The motor trade is now feeling
the effects of increased sales-
resistance following the rise in
sales-tax, as well as a normal
readjustment that was bound to
follow a long period of credit-
buying.
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia has expressed the belief
that essential industries will con-
tinue to find a steady demand
for their output. This supports
The Bulletin’s contention over
many months with The
Bulletin’s qualification that in
some overcapitalised essential
industries, like the textile trade,
business is likely to remain
difficult.
A Bulletin warning, reiter-
ated over several years, is that all
Australia .should become pro-
ductivity-conscious. Canberra is
now making some move in the
matter. “A sub-committee of the
Ministry of Labor Advisory
Council, consisting of two
leaders of industry and two of
the biggest names in the trade-
union movement, is to meet
within the next few weeks to
launch a productivity campaign
in Australia.”
The Ministry of Labor
Advisory Council says that the
initiative in increasing produc-
tivity must rest with manage-
ment. “At the same time, the
trade-unions and employees have
j, their own responsibilities. They
must publicly endorse the need
‘for higher productivity and be
prepared to accept the. introduc-
tion of more efficient processes.”
There is also the blunt fact
of State Government inefficiency
in transport and other similar
business-undertakings which are
essential to production and
distribution.
The reaction of the share-
market to all these developments
has been to weaken slightly. It
has already come down a good
deal from the peak of 1955, but
there will be a continuing sort-
ing-out of share-values from now
until the publication of the June
30 accounts and directors’
reports. News from overseas
that trading within the U.S.A.
and the United Kingdom is
becoming more and more diffi-
cult, and uncertain conditions
abroad will be noted by Aus-
tralian investors. There will be
many industrial and credit
problems to be tackled in Aus-
tralia as well as in the United
Kingdom and the U.S.A.
Victorian State Fair
-MELBOURNE’S Exhibition
•*-*-*- Buildings are undergoing
“Operation Transformation” for
Victoria’s first State Fair, starting
July 23. The 12-day fair is to be
the biggest and most comprehen-
sive exhibition of industry and
trade ever seen in this country.
Murals depicting the growth
and development of Victoria’s
industry will be a major feature
of the exhibition and represent
one of the largest contracts ever
offered to artists in Australia.
Every phase of industry has
been .allotted its own special sec-
tion, and exhibitors are offered
the “packaged” proposition of
prefabricated stands. These will
conform to an overall theme
created to best express each sec-
“It’s a real home from home —all the old gang are here!”
lion’s story in the main frame-
work of Victoria’s industrial
development over the past
decade.
The entire stretch of arcades,
incorporating international ex-
hibition practice, will be covered-
in by a false ceiling of plastic
and other materials. It is
designed to create a one-way
traffic-flow that embraces gallery
exhibits in one long, continuous
display-fafade.
The buying public, which
normally would aimlessly
wander back-and-forth, uninten-
tionally doubling-back on its
tracks, missing half the show
and getting leg-weary in the
process, will get more fun and
interest than ever before with
less exertion.
Australia’s Migrated Oils
FROM L. Owen: I would like
to make it clear that when
I have employed in The
Bulletin the phrase “migration
of oil,” I have been indicating
distinct change of environmen
(often necessitating movemen
across considerable thicknesses
of strata), and not merely the
transfer of the petroleum sub
stance, from one facies to
another almost contemporan
eous facies in the same forma
tion.
The chequered history of the
search for oil in Australia has
been a record of hopes unduly
raised by the discovery o
“pockets” of oil, whose charac-
teristics indicate that they have
been subjected to long-distance
migration, followed by the
abandonment, sometimes un-
warranted, of such hopes causec
by the failure of “normal” de-
velopmental methods to discover
commercial petroleum. It doesn i:
appear to be realised that such
migrated deposits require a very
special exploratory technique
for any prospect of success.
The crude petroleum recovered
from the Roma (Queensland)
field in 1930 had all the proper-
ties of a migrated and micro-
filtered oil, and production data
proved that the thin reservoir-
“sands” underlying the field
were highly lenticular, both
depositionally and through
faulting. Yet the “develop-
mental” wells were located just
as if the area were underlain
by a continuous and thick,
porous oil-bearing body, con-
sistently permeable.
The oil produced at Lakes
Entrance (Victoria) as far back
as 1924 gave unmistakable
evidence of having been sub-
jected first to migration and
then to inspissation followed by
water - transportation, mostly
lateral, but the wells, searching
for an extension of the oil-
impregnated glauconitic sand-
stone, were located by the classic
methods adopted where struc-
tural conditions might be the
predominant factor.
The more-recently-discovered
lense of oil-impregnated sand-
stone at Rough Range (W.A.)
quite correctly described as
ozokerite, as usually detinea.
when first encountered— was
obviously the product of nucro-
filtration through migration fol-
lowed by inspissation, but me
(Continued on next page)


Sea it at
mms
S&mf
DANGAR.
MALLOCH LTD.
■BMEpMag
NttsnHKw&
BM
Hand in hand
From the earliest days, children learn to trust
others. They naturally turn to grown-ups for
help and guidance.
In the same way, grown-ups and children
too turn for assistance in financial matters to
the Bank of New South Wales (Australia’s oldest
company and largest trading bank). Many
families have banked with us for generations.
Tens of thousands of new customers use our
services every year. They know “you can bank
on the ‘Wales’
You, too, can become a customer of the
“Wales”. In most Australian States and Terri-
tories even the youngest children can open savings
accounts in the Bank of New South Wales Savings
Bank Limited. And throughout Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, young
people who have left school and begun to earn a
regular income can open cheque accounts with the
Bank of New South Wales.
If you want to know more about the Bank’s
services, call at any branch of the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
■miifHiaa
D9O9SV
If any “Bulletin” Illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
I.A.C
lIIIIIW
NOW OPEN
an issue at par of £2,500,000
currencies from 3 months
to 20 years at your option
INTEREST
«*%
6%
5*%
CURRENCY
7 to 20 years
4 to 6 years
3 years
CURRENCY
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
INTEREST
s%
4*%
4%
31%
3*%
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange
6% per annum (compounded)
4 to 20 years
Inferesf automatically re-invested annually
principal more than DOUBLES in 12 years, more
than TREBLES in 19 years.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization -
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £40,000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial I
Acceptance I
Corporation i
LTD.
Sydney*—Melbourne—Brisbane—Adelaide \
Perth—Hobart 56.3.21. I
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
6i%
SHORT TERM
5%
CUMULATIVE
6%
PROSPECTUS
may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of
*=• S. & A. BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
Trustee for the
Debenture Stockholders
THE PERPETUAL
EXECUTORS & TRUSTEES
ASSOCIATION OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
exploration of the structure,
here again, followed the classic
pattern, although it was unequi-
vocally evident after the drilling
of three wells that neither the
impregnation nor the underlying
beds behaved in the manner
beloved of text-books.
At Wilkatana (S.A.) the
nature of the oil and its geologi-
cal history is similar (but not
identical) to that at Rough
Range ; and at Woodside (Vic.),
although this field possesses
some distinctive characteristics,
the same general statement is
true. In all these cases, however,
the search for oil continues as if
structure, rather than history,
was the predominating factor.
So far, every strike of
petroleum and natural gas made
on the Australian mainland has
indicated migration far from its
point of origin. That fact
demands special methods of
exploration—unless, of course,
the several companies concerned
are content with the remote
chance of striking commercial
oil by the hit-or-miss methods
of half-a-century ago, when
undiscovered shallow reservoirs
still existed -in a text-book
environment, or what seemed to
be such, for often it was proved,
subsequently, that the super-
imposition of the surface
“favorable” structure had been
a matter of pure chance.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
UNTIL the “frogman” tragi-
comedy, his successful
management of the Russian visit
earned for the Prime Minister a
welcome boost of public con-
fidence, which for some months
has been slipping away. It is
realised that he himself handled
the situation well, with a states-
manlike degree of formal respect,
politeness and realism and that
his international status benefited.
The subsequent frogman episode
—or the way the news has been
handled —has been sadly em-
barrassing.
The Russians were impressed
by “the high degree of industrial
development and culture”
(Khrushchev’s own words) and
the Western world drew comfort
from the nation’s hardheaded
reluctance to be taken-in.
As to “that dinner,” its reper-
cussions grow more and more
fantastic. At one extreme,
“Pravda” claims that the incident
was inspired from Wall-street
through the medium of an
American trade-union magazine.
At the other, a “Daily Tele-
graph” reader believes that “the
episode is probably the cleverest
international manoeuvre executed
for a very long time,” Khrush-
chev’s outburst, he affirms, was
deliberate and intended to deni-
grate the Gaitskell faction, to
prepare the way for Bevan and,
at the same time, to lull the Con-
servatives into sympathy.
The facts would seem to belie
this overelaboration. What
caused the trouble was merely
the bellicose outcome of good
old English “leg-pull.” Feelings
were already roused before the
list of imprisoned Social Demo-
crats was produced. George
Brown, the chief perpetrator, has
a son whose beliefs are not
identical with his own, and he
was twitting Khrushchev’s son on
these lines. Khrushchev, who has
every appearance of high blood-
pressure, could not contain
himself and lost his temper. The
party, in fact, went wrong from
the beginning and broke up in
disorder.
Automation Checks
The Communist offensive
against automation has gained
early, if local, successes. At the
conference of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union (now under
serious threat of infiltration)
the Communists had the floor
almost to themselves for the
propagation of wildly irrespon-
sible resolutions. And the strike
of. 11,000 operatives at the
Standard Coventry factory was
the direct result of a Communist
coup.
This affair was not merely an
instance of blunder-headed Lud-
dites. Both sides have arguable
cases: the management because,
in their own words, “We are not
installing £4-million-worth of
equipment in order to employ
the same number of men” ; and
the operatives because the
introduction of the new
machinery comes at a difficult
time for the motor-industry in
their own district. (Ford’s, at
Dagenham, and VauxhaU’s, at
Luton, have also undertaken
similar installations and, because
they are doing well, no one has
been laid-off.)
The intention of the Standard
Company was to take back the
2500 workers on tractor-produc-
tion after completion of the
extensive re-tooling operation.
Some of them would have been
transferred to motor-car
assembly, but the present slack-
ness (due to the “squeeze" and to
import - restrictions elsewhere)
means that a further 400 car-
operatives will also • have to be
laid-off.
What appears to have hap-
pened is that the chief convenor
of shop-stewards, a Communist,
played upon the men’s natural
concern and led them out before
the company had time to arrange
a meeting with the union, on the
emotional, if quite unreasonable,
ground that everybody should
be kept on during the period of
re-tooling.
The attitude of the Govern-
ment towards automation is pro-
foundly simple—the alternative
to acceptance is decay. Just as
unequivocal is the attitude
towards labor relations in
industry. The Minister of Labor
must depend upon joint consulta-
tion, upon all sides getting
together and smoothing things
out. There can be no question
of getting “tough” with the
workers.
And here the weak link in the
chain is undoubtedly the T.U.C.,
inhibited by party-political pre-
judice, by a propensity towards
double-thinking and 'by an
archaic constitution.
Welfare Stage
If, artistically, 1955 was a poor
year in the theatre, there are
few signs that 1956 is going to
be much better. To catalogue its
shortcomings is much easier than
to evaluate its virtues. But un-
questionably the greatest single
factor in theatre economics is
the redistribution of income. The
luxury-coach has taken the place
of the luxury-car; and the
discerning or venturesome elite
which formerly supported the
Little Theatres is either too poor
or disinterested. Or it may well
be that steep production-costs
are incompatible with a partly-
filled auditorium.
At all events, the professional
stage outside London is insigni-
ficant. Many theatres have
closed-down or been demolished
to make way for chain-stores. In
a last effort to save the Grand
at Halifax, Eric Portman
“travelled” the entire company
of “Separate Tables” for a special
Sunday performance. He failed.
And now the Oxford Playhouse
(where Christopher Fry, as pro-
ducer, learned his craft) has
drifted into perpetual darkness.
All success, then, to the Eng-
lish Stage Company which has
now taken over the Royal Court
Theatre, Sloane Square. An
imposing-sounding council, forti-
fied by a not-especially-generous
subsidy, may supply this need
and promote new dramatists, the
main intent of the venture.
The beginning is cautious, with
two plays in repertory. One is
“The Mulberry Bush,” by Angus
Wilson, the novelist and man of
letters (he derives his bed-and-
board from the civil service) and
the other, “The Crucible,” by the
established American dramatist,
Arthur Miller..
Wilson is full of ideas, but
this play (about a Liberal univer-
sity family muscle-bound by
intellectual tradition) hardly fits
the theatre. His technique is
rather contrived and of the
magazine-story type, but the
players, some of whom have little
experience, get well inside the
characters.
This they fail to do (the men,
at any rate) in the other play,
which deals with witch-hunting
in Massachusetts in 1692 and
which is splendid Little Theatre.
The production is unbearably
taut, notwithstanding some
attempts at relaxation, causing
the less-than-mature actors to
seek refuge beneath a veneer of
technique which, as yef, is purely
imaginary.
Nevertheless, the season
promises well, especially if pro-
ducer and players manage to
attain homogeneity of under-
standing with each other.


Safeguard
your Estate
Incorporated In Victoria in 1278
TR27.3S
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility .. . Secrecy .. . Continuous Audit. . . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves , £972,657.
_ W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.MiG., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd.
TTELD in check first by war and then
by post-war shortages of cement,
power, labor and equipment, this well-
organised group has expanded rapidly
over the last five years, both at home and
abroad. More encouraging is the fact
that net earnings have responded nicely to
the increase in activity ; but the co. has
not yet had an opportunity to accumulate
anything substantial in way of reserves.
Subject to level of activity in the con-
struction trades, the outlook for share-
holders is encouraging.
The group—parent holding co. and
half-a-dozen subsidiaries, plus U.K.,
German and Brazilian interests—mixes
cement at central points, and, with fleets
of agitator trucks, delivers the stuff ready
for immediate use on the job within a
couple of hours from, the time of mixing.
The parent was formed in Sydney in
1939, and operated as a trading co. until
1945, when the business, which had
then spread throughout the Common-
wealth, was passed to subsidiaries in the
various States.
Activities were extended to the U.K.
in 1952, where 11 plants will soon be
in production. All those now in operation
are earning profits, and “the future of
our English activities appears very
bright,” the chairman says. Also a
portable plant was recently set up at
Dusseldorf, West Germany, where it is
hoped to enter into a joint venture with
local interests. Shortly before the close
of accounts in 1954, the co. entered into
partnership with U.S. and Brazilian
interests in a co. operating in Rio de
Janeiro, where two plants have been
installed and a third is about to
commence. The outlook for concrete-
construction work in Brazil is reported
to have improved considerably over the
last 12 months. Also, a subsidiary was
recently set up in Singapore, where trade
prospects are considered to be good.
Turnover and net earnings increased
in both Australia and England last term.
The figures for the two countries are
not separated in the accounts, but over
two-thirds of the profit appears to have
been won in Australia and the balance
in Britain. After allowing £93,951 (up
£38,766) for depreciation and £172,603
(up £62,603) for taxation, there was an
improvement of £54,918 in the net
result:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Pref. Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. C p.e. , Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1949.. 16,093 600 600 6 p.c. = 15,750 13,356
7 p.c.
1960.. 29,919 600 700 7 „ „ 18,375 23,600
t 8 p.c.
1951.. 40,285 600 800 8 „ „ 21,000 41,485
To tax provision, £lO,OOO .. .. 31,485
Intangibles written off, £10,500 .. 20,985
1952.. 56,444 600 800 8 p.c. = 37,800 38,229
Add U.K. reserves, £48,579 .. .. 86,808
1953. .101,174 600 800 8 p.c. = 64,120 122,462
Unexplained reduction, £126 .. .. 122,336
1954. .133,744 600 800 8 p.c. = 65,800 188,880
Profit sale fixed assets, £17,140 .. 206,020
10 p.c.
1955. .188,662 750 800 10 p.c. = 82,250 310,882
The £188,662 of profit, which leaves out
of the reckoning a capital-gain of £17,140
on sale of assets, was enough to pay
the pref. divs. (£1550) and show 22.7
p.c. on ord. capital employed, compared
with 13.2, 12.4, 11.6, 14.8 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1950. So the lift in the div.
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. was a comfortable
matter.
To help finance further all-round
expansion, at home and abroad, 280,000
new £1 ords. were issued ,at par, one-
for-three, shortly before the close of
last accounts. Only £52,520 of the
money had been received when the
books closed, leaving £227,480 to come.
Paid capital will be thus lifted to
£1,120,000 in 7500 8 p.c. and 10,000
H P-C. participating prefs. and 1,102,500
ords. The pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. on that lot would call for £llB,BOO,
or £66,862 less profit than was earned
last term. So despite the credit-squeeze
and easier tendency in public-construc-
tion work, the 10 p.c. div. appears to be
in no immediate danger, and the long-
term outlook is encouraging.
The current year’s earnings should
receive some benefit from last term’s
substantial addition of £459,324 to
plant, etc.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £17,500 £17,500 £17,500
Ord 822,500 822,500 875,020
Reserves . . .. 122,402 188,880 310,883
Outside interests 30 30 80
Overdraft .. 55,684
Creditors* . . 215,873 318,401 354,742
Tax provision .. 110,290 144,308 244,111
Final divs. .. 33,000 33,000 41,900
£1,322,255 £1,525,279 £1,899,870
Plant, buildings, etc. 910,060 869,230 1,318,564
Stocks . . .. 49,532 56,571 109,790
Debtors .. .. 282,171 373,530 406,490
Cash, etc. .. 79,902 235,942 5,030
£1,322,255 £1,525,279 £1,899,870
To meet the outlay on fixed assets
and carry an extra £53,225 of stocks
and £92,954 more book-debts, the
co. drew upon its own cash
resources for £230,912, went to
the bank for £55,684 aiid added
£36,341 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at
265. (255. 6d. a year ago) to return
a satisfactory 7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div.
basis. The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change. Including the new
share-issue, net tangible cover is
255. lid. ords.
National Radiators, Ltd.
TN supporting National Radiators scrip
at the current level on /Change the
market is attracted by the prospect of
a higher final dividend or other benefits.
Priced at around 155., the ss. shares
return 4.4 p.c. on the basis of the 13.3 p.c.
dividend which the co. paid in 1955. The
1956 interim of 5 p.c. declared in Feb-
ruary compares with an interim dividend
of 5 p.c. and a final dividend of 8| p.c.
last year.
Against an encouraging mid-term
report of “appreciably” bigger sales and
profits for the six months to December
31 last, however, must be matched the
new rates of company-taxation which
will apply to this year’s profits, as well as
the possible effects on production in the
motor-industry of heavier sales-tax.
The co. is the largest maker of auto-
motive radiators in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and its long-term prospects are
promising. Complete radiator-assemblies
are turned out at its factories in Mel-
bourne and Sydney for General Motors-
Holden’s, Ltd., Chrysler Australia, Ltd.,
International Harvester, Rootes (Aus-
tralia), the Rover Co. and the Standard
Motor Co. (most of which companies
plan considerable additions to local pro-
duction), and also for Hudson and
Peugeot vehicles. For the expanding
replacement-market radiator replace-
ment-cores are distributed in Victoria by
Motor Radiators Pty., Ltd., a subsidiary,
which also produces petrol-tanks and is
distributor for Masse batteries in the
Wimmera and in N.S.W. and Queens-
land through branches of the parent co.
Sales in other States are handled by inde-
pendent distributors.
Two newly-acquired interests outside
the radiator field are the manufacture
under licence from the Cromwell Paper
Co., of America, of Ferropak rust-
inhibiting paper (National is equal share-
holder with the American licensor in
Australian Inhibitor Paper Pty., Ltd.);
and under licence from the Risdon Manu-
facturing Co. of Connecticut, the pro-
duction of aerosol valves used in dispens-
ing insecticides, shaving-cream, etc., under
pressure from small disposable con-
tainers. Manufacture of the complete
valve was planned to begin this year.
Sales in 1955 rose by almost 20 p.c.
over the 1954 figure to £1,186,714. After
deducting all expenses, including £21,379
(£19,958 in 1954) depreciation, and pro-
viding £45,740 (£47,384) for taxation,
consolidated profit was struck at £66,131
(£62,649):
Parent and Subsidiary.
t Dividends — N To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. Y Old. — N serves, serves.
30, £ £ - £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4BB . . .. 16,097
Written-off intangibles, 1766 .. 18,463
Asset-revaluation reserve, £27,469 .. 45,932
*51..41,904 2500 13.33 p.c. = 18,783 20,621 66,553
Profit sale assets, £342 .. .. 66,895
Share-premiums, £40,000 . . .. 106,895
’52..53,520 2500 13.38 p.c. = 27,901 23,119 130,014
Profit sale assets, £l9 .. .. 130,033
’53..52,778 2500 13.33 p.c. = 29,902 20,376 150,409
Profit sale assets, £356 .. .. 150,765
’54..60,997 2500 18.33 p.c. = 41,115 17,382 168,147
Tax overprovided, £1652 .. .. 169,799
Profit sale assets, £213 . . . . 170,012
’55..66,131 2500 13.33 p.c. = 29,902 33,729 203,741
As a percentage of sales the £66,131 was
equal to 5.6 p.c., compared with 6.3 p.c.
in 1954. The return on ordinary capital,
after allowing for the pref. div., was
28.4 p.c., as against 26.8 p.c. in 1954. The
dividend of 13.33 p.c. was thus a little
under half the profit available to ordinary
capital.
Finances are in good shape:—•
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capitals- 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 224,263 224,263 224,263
Reserves 141,110 168,147 203,741
Overdraft . . .. 24,679 84,706 98,256
Creditors .. . . 44,305 60,776 119,266
Tax provision . . .. 41,831 47,384 45,740
Final div 19,939 31,152 19,939
£546,127 £066,428 £761,205
Freeholds, leaseholds and
plant 170,651 221,534 217,772
Stocks 209,166 290,051 368,082
Debtors 165,937 154,476 170,909
Shares . , .. . . 8 4,000
Cash, etc. .. ~ 373 364 442
£546,127 £666,428 £761,205
Closing stocks of raw and semi-processed
materials and finished goods were £78,031
higher, due chiefly to substantial increases
in the prices of copper and brass, the
basic materials used in radiators. Recent
reductions in the local price of copper
following sharp falls in this metal on
the London Metal Exchange, however,
.should eventually help National to keep
its own cost-structure in trim.
Net tangible asset cover for the £1
prefs. is £9 1 Is. 2d. and for the ss. stock
units 9s. 6d.
South Australian Portland Cement
r T'HOUGH shareholders have never
A skimmed much cream from the busi-
ness of this 60-odd-year-old Adelaide
cement-producer—divs. have averaged
about 8| p.c. over the last 30 years—the
outlook more promising than it has
ever been. The market gives tangible
recognition to the fact by pricing the
f.-p. £1 shares at 31s. 3d. (31s. 6d. a year
ago) to return a moderate 5.1 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s 8 p.c. distribution,
which was more than twice covered by
the year’s net earnings. A 6.4 p.c. return
would call for a 10 p.c. distribution,
which appears a reasonable anticipation,
though the target may be reached by
halting steps.
For those prepared to wait and to
find additional capital when required, the
lOs.-paid contribs. at 15s. 2d. offer an
immediate return of 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div., or 6.3 p.c. when the shares are fully
paid. A 10 p.c. distribution would then
lift the yield on these shares to 7.9 p.c.
Including uncalled capital, the cover in
net tangibles is 295. Id. per share, all in
fixed assets worth what they can earn.
To meet the rapidly-expanding post-
war demand for cement in South Aus-
tralia, where population and the growth
of industry have proceeded apace, the
board decided in 1948 to modernise plant
and increase output-capacity from 45,000
tons to 150,000 tons per annum, and to
transfer operations from Brighton to
Angaston, where new works, handier to
essential raw materials, have since been
erected.
Owing to delays in delivery of
materials, and other difficulties, comple-
tion of first kiln at Angaston took longer
than anticipated. Production of clinker
at the new works didn’t begin until
November, 1952. Since then a second
kiln has been installed, and came into
production after the close of accounts in
1954. Meanwhile a lot of money —over
£900,000 had been spent at Angaston to
mid-1954 —was tied up in plant which
only came into production by progressive
steps.
During the 1955 term, complete pro-
cessing at Angaston was limited to about
two-fifths of total production, the balance
of the work being carried out at the old
Brighton plant. Not until after August,
1956, are earnings expected to get the
full benefit of economies which should
result from- centralised operations and
new plant, etc. Meanwhile output, sales
and net earnings have all progressively
increased ; but the co. has not yet got
the full benefits from its big programme
of re-organisation and expansion, nor has
it yet had an opportunity to accumulate
much fat in relation to paid capital.
Production figures are not broadcast,
but sales have kept abreast of output.
After allowing £97,573 (up £21,573) for
depreciation and £41,200 (up £2700) for
taxation, last term’s net earnings advanced
by £7940:
June 30, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1951 .. 23,281 7i 15,461 147,691
To staff fund, £2303 .. .. 145,288
Share premiums, £30,913 .. 176,201
From tax reserve, net, £lOOl.. 177,202
1952 . . 27,291 74 24,672 179,821
To staff fund, £1690 178,231
Tax overprovided, £2206 .. 180,437
Capital profit, £5OOO .. .. 185,437
To depreciation prov’n, £25,000 160,437
Unexplained' reduction, £4558 155,879
1953 .. 35,346 7t 32,475 158,750
Net capital profit, £12,905 .. 171,655
1954 .. 67,122 74 34,184 204,593
Capital profit, £5412 .. .. 210,005
1955 .. 75,062 8 36,463 248,604
Profits shown above include minor unexplained
additions to reserves.
The £75,062 of profit was 16.4 p.c. on
capital as against 14.7, 8.1 and 8.6 p.c.
back to 1952. The div. was gently
jacked-up from 7£ p.c. to 8 p.c. The
£38,599 that remained lifted reserves to
£248,604.
During the year £300,000 was raised
on eight-year 6 p.c. debentures, redeem-
able at the co.’s option after five years,
and £239,473 was slashed off the over-
draft, thus giving the financial structure
more stability:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £455,788 £455,788 £455,788
Reserves . . . . 157,050 205,874 248,604
Mortgage .. . . 6,708 6,477 6,249
Debentures . . 300,000
Overdraft ... .. 234,147 322,951 83,478
Creditors .. . . 121,422 100,302 76,970
Due to subsid. . . 23,000 23,000
Tax provision . . 7,500 38,500 41,200
Final div. .. 17,092 17,092 19,371
T , , £999,707 £1,169,984 £1,254,660
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 745,604 886,738 899,642
Shares .. .. 25,756 25,756 25,756
Stoeli .. . . 134,278 154,571 203,520
Debtors .. . . 93,959 102,809 125,677
Cash .. .. no no 65
£999,707 £1,169,984 £1,254,660
The net addition of only £12,904 to fixed
assets suggests that major capital expendi-
ture is out of the way. The growth in
stocks (up £48,948) and book-debts (up
£22,868) reflects bigger trading.
Queensland Trading & Holding Co.
TT used to be the old Q.M.E., which was
A split in twain in 1915, when the
pastoral properties passed to Australian
Stock Breeders and the meat-works (at
Townsville and Brisbane) to the present
co. The name was changed to the present
title —indicative of the future of the
undertaking—on December 22, 1955,
following sale of the co.’s main assets in


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers a
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great vale
in the preparation and supervision
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for thi
service, and no change need be made
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Se&itat
warns
sa/
DANGAR. GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
m
m
L
'M
+•
A\H
LIFE ASSURANCE
h Setvice
FOR
iOD
{YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making
friends, since
new
1895.
V- :
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building;, Hunter <fc Bligh Streets, Sydney.
m
m
'<2
•<*»
W
$0
ftft
t
0
MORE MILES!
GOODYEAR
Cold Rubber
miracle
does it
Tyres eclipse previous mileage records
Goodyear research experts said, "We can make tyre
rubber tougher ... we can make tyres run far more
miles than ever they've run before . Ten years ago
they received the go ahead signal. Today, they've
come up with a performance to meet their claims
miracle "Cold Rubber'.'. Never before had such
tyre rubber been known, a tyre rubber with so
much inbuilt strength that it was possible to set new
mileage records. And how had it been achieved?
By making the molecular structure twice as compact
and far tougher than other rubber! Ask for Goodyear
Tyres with "Cold Rubber".
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS* AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES
*The famous Goodyear Tubeless pierced with nails can
be driven many miles without air loss.
8094 A
Australia (the Ross River works
at Townsville and the Brisbane
factory) for £787,500 (£205,510
more than their book-value) to
an unnamed buyer, believed to
be Vesteys, Ltd., the big English
meat-packer and -shipper.
The announcement surprised
the market, and the price of the
f.-p. 15s. shares, which had
advanced from Bs. 2d. a year
ago to 10s. 3d. in October last,
shot up to 275. 6d. in December,
but had eased to 235. last week.
Later in 1956 it is proposed to
return part of the £491,232 of
paid capital, which is in 654,976
f.-p. 15s. shares ; but by exactly
how much the board has not yet
decided.
Here is file financial structure
as the published accounts show
it at last two balancing-dates:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £491,232 £491,232
Reserves .. .. 424,214 447,599-
Overdraft • . 636,671 1,196,477
Advances on ship-
ments .. .. 437,633
Sundry creditors, etc. 213,177 224,541
Final div. .. 49,123
£1,765,294 £2,840,605
Freehold, plant, etc. 595,092 581,990
Shares Singapore
00. . . . . 506,187 506,187
Shares subsidiary 75,000 75,000
Shares other cos, 6,063 6,063'
Stocks, livestock,
etc 491,909 1,156,252
Sundry debtors . . 90,043 520,113
Intangibles .. 1,000 1,000
£1,765,294 £2,846,605
At the moment the management
is in the process of realising
stocks, reducing book-debts and
liquidating outside liabilities.
Adequate provision has been
made to meet any fall in stock
prices, the board says.
On the basis of the figures at
November 30 last, the co. will
have cash (£787,500), stocks
(£1,156,252) and book-debts
(£520,113) totalling £2,463,865
to meet outside liabilities, etc.,
of £1,907,774 (including provi-
sion for last term’s 10 p.c.
dividend). The surplus of
£556,091 is equal to 16s. lid. per
share. The other principal asset
is the holding in the Singapore
Cold Storage co., in at £506,187,
and estimated to be worth
£A607,443 in the market. The
amount received by the co. in
dividends last term was £48,058.
If only ss. a share is returned,
paid capital would be reduced to
£327,488 in f.-p. 10s. shares,
which would cost the buyer at
the current price 18s. net,, and the
co. would still hold its invest-
ments plus £392,347 in cash.
Last term’s dividend receipts,
plus, say, 5 p.c. on the cash,
would amount to £67,675, or
20.6 p.c. on the reduced capital.
On a 12 p.c. distribution, the
shares at 18s. would return 6.6
p.c., with prospects. Much, of
course, will depend upon how
the Singapore business continues
to fare—the political situation
there is very unsettled at the
moment.
Now of no more than
historical interest, the old co.’s
performances as a profit-earner
and dividend-payer have always
been moderate, due to the ups
and downs of the international
meat-trade, fluctuating seasonal
conditions and the effects of
creeping inflation upon wage
and other costs. After paying
divs. averaging 5.8 p.c. for the
first five years, losses exceeded
profits for the next 11 years,
when two divs. totalling 9 p.c.
were sent out. The turning-point
came in 1932, and 2j p.c. was
paid for the four years to 1935,
followed by distributions averag-
ing 5.6 p.c. for the 20 years to
the end of 1955. Meanwhile
(in 1933) ss. of each £1 share
was returned in cash.
The current deal has opened
up a new and, under existing
conditions, a more promising
outlook for shareholders, subject
to what has been said concern-
ing the Singapore business. The
inclusion of. the word “trading”
in the co.’s new title suggests
that the board has some kind of
commercial activity in mind, the
precise nature of which has not
yet been broadcast.
Consolidated Tin Dredging
It was "in September, 1951,
during the peak of the post-war
boom in tin-prices, that this
big Melbourne-controlled hold-
ing co. (paid capital £2,713,569
in f.-p. 10s. shares) merged the
interests of nine Australian-
owned tin cos. operating in
Malaya and Thailand.
The venture has since been a
disappointment to shareholders,
who have had divs. aggregating
Is. 6d. per share (15 p.c.) to date.
The last 6d. was sent out in
March, 1956, and the price of
their scrip has dropped to 2s. 4d.
in the market. On the basis of
present ore reserves, four of the
five operating dredges have from
l j years’ to 3 years’ work, or
thereabouts, ahead ; one dredge,
Tongkah Compound No. 5, has
been sold for £67,000, of which
£52,000 has been received and
the other £15,000 is payable at
the end of June next; and two
of the now four idle dredges are
up for sale.
For the year to June 30, 1955,
the holding co. received £205,737
(up £46,982) in dividends, of
which £203,368 was net profit.
A 6d. div. took £136,468 in
February, 1955. In 1953 and
1952 losses of £4693 and £5254
were recorded.
Consolidated accounts show-
ing the financial position and net
earnings of the entire group are
not presented, and they should
be. Separate accounts for each
subsidiary are published, but
owing to inter-co. holdings, wide
differences' in balancing-dates
and other technical difficulties, it
is not possible for the outsider
to arrive at the overall position
with any degree of accuracy.
Liquid funds of the group are
reported to exceed £ABOO,OOO,
equal to 2s. lid. per share, or
7d. more than the current
market price. The co. is examin-
ing properties in Perak and
Johore (Malaya), but the work
has not yet advanced sufficiently
to enable average values to be
assessed. In Thailand three pro-
perties were inspected, but values
and yardage were not good
enough to warrant accepting the
offers.
The Pilbara Field (W.A.)
Mining interests throughout
the Commonwealth will welcome
the action of the Westralian
Government in sending a party,
headed by two geologists, to
make a comprehensive regional
survey of about 10,000 square
miles in the Marble Bar-
Nullagine area, on the far-away
Pilbara field (W.A.).
The immediate objective is to
assess possible mineral resources
and prepare up-to-date geological
maps. It is a field of complex
mineralisation, from which gold,
tin, tantalite, antimony, beryl
and columbite are being currently
produced. Operating and trans-
port costs are high, and to date
some of the ore has proved a
tough nut for the metallurgist to
crack.
Still, modern treatment
methods have overcome some-
what similar difficulties in
connection with ores from the
old Zeehan field (Tas.), and
there is no reason to suppose that
Pilbara ores will present insuper-
able problems. The first essential
in any mining venture is a good
mine, and the Government is
going the right way about in-
ducing prospectors to prove the
extent of likely deposits.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
To farewell the retiring Chief Naval
Liaison Officer for the U.K., Captain
John Smallwood, and Mrs. Smallwood
(they return to England in the Orion with
their family next week), the Senior Air
Adviser to the U.K. staff, Group-Captain
P. R. Beare, and Mrs. Beare gave a
cocktail-party, followed by a buffet-
dinner at their Brighton home. The
hostess wore an ecru-lace blouse with a
black moire skirt and matching bolero.
Guests included Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
R. S. Wellby, Air-Vice-Marshals W.
Hely, E. Daley and R. Willock and their
wives, Group-Captain and Mrs. H. Gib-
son and their daughter Prudence,
Group-Captain and Mrs. C. Pierce,
Colonel and Mrs. Michael Biggs, Lieut.
Sir Michael Richardson-Bunbury, Bt.,
R.N., and Mr. and Mrs. T. C. Seabrook.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Lord Somers was State Governor
he instituted a camp which bears his
name, and at which every year boys
from all walks of life gather for a holiday.
To raise funds for it the Camp Capers
Ball was held at the Royale Ballroom,
attended by over 1000. At the back of
the official table was a large backdrop of
the Somers House crest, and around the
walls large posters depicted athletes in
many forms of sport. Official guests
included Colonel and Mrs. P. Rhoden,
Colonel and Mrs. S. Enabling, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Butler, Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Jolly and Mr. John X. O’Driscoll,
Q.C. Ticket-secretaries were Jim Mc-
Glashan, Sue Adamson and Michael
Poynter. Noted among the dancers were
Bronwen Cornell, Marion Gengoult
Smith, Janet Rooney, Patricia Earl, Peter
Bowen Pain, Guy Brice and David
Venville.
☆ ☆ ☆
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of
the inauguration of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital, decorations for the traditional
Fourth of July Ball (which will be held
at St. Kilda Palais on July 6) will be
in a . white-and-silver color-scheme.
Chairman of the Silver Anniversary Ball
committee is Mrs. J. K. Cokefair; Mrs.
Gerald Warner, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, will be chairman of tickets,
Mrs. Mark Clements chairman of pub-
licity, and Mrs. J. Ross Greening chair-
man of decorations. Mrs. L. F. Don-
nelly (8J5519), Mrs. M. Bryant
(UY7780), and Mrs. J. Wiedenmayer
(BM1458) are ticket-secretaries.
The “high, shy” neckline, the youthful
bib-bodice and interesting fabrics were
seen at Saba’s spring showing at Ciro’s,
which included motif-embroidered
prints, and sateen-striped and novelty
cottons, Oriental jacquards, crisp piques
and lustrous poplins. Colors ranged from
delicate pastels to rich jewel-tones. A
vivid new aqua is called Surf; avocado-
green is now known as Martini, and a
lipstick-pink is renamed Cancan. Popu-
lar styles are still the Princess-line, the
Empire-line, and the long-torso line.
Skirts are either pencil-slim or very full,
and many skirts in this collection
featured jaunty pockets and concealed
kick-pleats.
Low waists are emphasised by rhine-
stone buckles holding cuffs, contrasting
pipings, buttoned tabs or unusual side-
panels. Featured also were a group of
printed cottons with sarong-draped
bodices which leave one shoulder bare.
A number of Empire-line dresses had
cowl-neck or V-neck collars on low-cut
backs with finishes of flat bows.
V &
Masses of autumn-leaves were used to
decorate St. Kilda Town Hall when 1000
guests attended the annual staff cabaret-
ball of the Alfred Hospital. Guests were
received by Miss M. J. Hanna (lady
superintendent), assisted by the hospital’s
board of management president, W. S.
Phillips, and Mrs. Phillips. In the official
party were medical superintendent Dr.
G. I. Howard and Mrs. Howard, the
manager and secretary (Colonel C. G.
Rankin) and Mrs. Rankin, and auxiliaries
president Mrs. J. A. Campbell. Sally-
Ann Hayes wore a short bouffant frock
of .white chiffon overlaid with black
Chantilly-lace, the bodice pleated and
strapless; Winifred Webster chose
hyacinth-blue faille for her formal gown,
and Jan Anderson-Smith wore junior-blue
taffeta with the full skirt featuring a
harem-hemline.
* ☆ ☆
Ajr , TrTT , ,
and M rs> R Leask, of Camber-
wedj. have issued invitations for the
carriage daughter Judith with
Captain Michael Reyne at St. Hilary s on
une 6. Captain Reyne is one of the
most popular aides-de-camp Govern-
House has had. Although still on
, Governor s personal staff, he will
a position with the British Petroleum
Co - in West Africa at the end of the
year. Michael is the only son of Rear-
Admiral Sir Cecil Reyne and Lady
Reyne, of Alverstoke, Hampshire.
Lisa Hamilton, who with her husband
has come from the Isle of Man to make
a home in this city, will play Maud
Larrabee in Irene Mitchell’s production
of “Sabrina,” which will begin a three-
weeks’ season at the Arrow Theatre
tonight (May 23). A feature of the play
will be the smart gowns, which were
designed by Dorothy Gitsham. Photo by
Peter Fox.
The Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club held
their opening meet at Woodstock, led by
the Master of Findon, Noel Mason, whose
wife was also out, with, too, their
daughters Ailsa and Kathleen. Deputy-
master of the Melbourne Hunt Club
Peter Ronald and Mrs. Ronald came
from Pakenham for the hunt with their
small son Bill. Colonel Malcolm Mc-
Arthur and Mrs. McArthur, of Wollert,
were spectators, and brought with them
Mimi Jacob—Mimi and Meredith Mc-
Arthur took part in the hunt. Others
who enjoyed the day’s outing were Mrs.
Bill Stocks and her daughter Elizabeth,
and Mrs. Ben Benson (whose daughter
Sue was another out with the hunt).
*,* ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. S. Hanna have sent out
invitations for the marriage of their
daughter Suzanne to Robert Corrie, to
take place at Melbourne Grammar
School Chapel on June 1. Reception will
be at the Elsternwick home of the bride’s
parents.
SYDNEY
This has been a delightful week for
theatre-goers. Three shows on succes-
sive nights have tested the stamina 6f first-
nighters and not found them wanting.
“The Rivals” at the Elizabethan on
Saturday night was well attended. Noted
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses in the dress-
circle with Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hunt
(Mr. Hunt, by the way, leaves on Sunday
for a six-weeks’ overseas visit to study
latest theatre-trends and teaching-
methods).
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Brady were among
those who had been at the Royal on the
previous night to see “The Reluctant
Debutante”; also Miss Margaret Gil-
lespie, who was with her sister Miss
Frances Gillespie. Miss Judy Lawless
was present with Mr. Max Oldaker. Miss
Margaret Clancy attracted attention with
her unusual hair-style, her chignon bound
round with fuchsia ribbon-velvet.
Some lovely dresses were to be seen at
the premiere of “The Reluctant Debu-
tante” ; quite a few long frocks and many
sumptuous furs; Mrs. Deke Coleman’s
full-length mink was really beautiful.
Youthful Jacqueline and Michelle Deky-
vere, daughters of the Victor Dekyveres,
seem to be starting out as a new' genera-
tion of theatre-lovers. They are nieces
of the Marcel Dekyveres, constant first-
nighters.
There was nothing in the audience to
excel the dressing on the stage, however.
The evening-gowns in the first act would
be quite worth going along to see even if
the play and the acting were not so gay
and refreshing,
# # &
“Picnic,” by William Inge (who wrote
“Come Back Little Sheba”), opened at
the Independent to a full house. Noticed
among the many theatrical personalities
present, Miss Nellie Lamport looking
charming in her white ermine cape. The
play, a thoroughly good piece of enter-
tainment, is to be specially performed for
the Elizabethan Theatre Ball funds on
Sunday, June 10, with a “picnic”-supper
afterwards. It will, of course, run for
a season at the Independent on Thurs-
days, Fridays and Saturdays.
The Independent Theatre Ball, by the
way, will be held at Prince’s on Tuesday,
May 29, when Mr. and Mrs. Roger
Livesey (Miss Ursula Jeans) will be
guests-of-honor.
# #
The quip by Melbournites on Sydney’s
bronzed population, “That’s not sun-tan,
that’s rust,” which was related by Cap-
tain Gatacre at the reception given by the
Royal Empire Society for the officers of
Aircraft-carrier Melbourne, was well-
received by Sydneyites who are “browned-
off” by the rain, in one sense at least.
About 30 officers went along to the
reception, including Commander W. F.
Cook (accompanied by Mrs. Cook, who
is just back from England). Mrs. Gatacre
looked attractive in brown velvet. Mrs.
Garnet Halloran, who welcomed the
guests with Dr. Halloran, wore a black
silk-brocade suit. Her niece, Mrs. M. E.
Baker, came along with daughter Jennifer
O’Connor.
Pamela Miller, who is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Miller,
of Vaucluse, recently became engaged to
Tony Wilkinson, son of Dr. F. O. B.
Wilkinson and the late Mrs. Wilkinson.
The engagement was announced at a
party for 130 guests which Pamela’s
parents gave for her at their home.
Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
The Bush Book Club can always be
depended upon to produce interesting
speakers at its annual meeting. This
year’s gathering (its 46th) was addressed
by Mr. Alan Hill, an English represen-
tative of Heinemann’s, the publishers,
and he made some pleasant, soothing
observations about Australia being one
of the biggest markets (per capita) for
books in the world, as well as being one
of the most discriminating.
Mr. Hill was followed by Miss
Hephzibah Menuhin, who then shattered
our complacency with a challenging
speech about the need for change and
development. “Australians just want to
‘settle down,’ ” said Miss Menuhin, “not
to grow or change or develop,” and
more-or-less suggested that the Bush Book
Club might bring about an educational
revolution in the outback. It was all
very stimulating and a little terrifying,
but definitely entertaining.
Miss Barbara Knox said that the Bush
Book Club has had a large increase in
members this year, and letters (read at
the meeting) from lonely people in far-
away corners of this State indicate the
great service the club is doing.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 20th annual conference of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme was
opened by the Governor, Sir John North-
cott, during the week, when the chair was
taken by Dr. G. Moncrieff Barron and
addresses given by Dr. C. R. Bickerton-
Blackbum on “Mosaic of Modem Medi-
cine” and Mrs. John Metcalfe on
“Children and TV.”
•At the beginning of the month the
7000th country child was admitted to
the Drummond Far West Home at
Manly. The medical treatment given at
this home represents only a fraction of
the work carried out by the Far West
scheme since it was founded 31 years
ago. In all, 31,763 children have bene-
fited by the various activities of the
scheme during that time. A really
wonderful record.
Some idea of the size of TV audiences
in the U.S. was given by Mrs. Metcalfe,
when she said that the TV presentation
of Peter Pan (which featured Cyril
Ritchard as Captain Hook) was seen by
more people on the one night than had
seen it over all the years in all its pre-
vious stage-performances. Another inter-
esting fact Mrs. Metcalfe gave was that
TV has been shown to create a greater
demand for books and a greater interest
in ballet and opera than ever before.
* ☆ *
The New Naughty Nineties Committee
has lots of plans in mind for raising
money for the R.P.A. Rehabilitation
Appeal, and with Mrs. W, J. Smith at the
helm one can depend that they will be
very successful. The ball is to be on
Saturday, September 29 —a good way off,
but something well worth while looking
forward to. Chairman Ronnie Parr said
at the meeting that the Naughty Nineties
Committee in the six years of its existence
had raised £47,000 for charity at a cost
of approximately £llO0 —a record that
augurs well for the R.P.A. Rehabilitation
Appeal.
☆ ☆ ☆
Think of all those bachelors to be pre-
sent at the Bachelors’ Ball on June 5 at
Prince’s! Forty-seven of them! Presi-
dent is Ben Arnott, and his executive
consists of Jim Bain, Philip Simpson,
David Aitken, Ross Stanford and Peter
Coghlan. The call is for 7.30 p.m., with
dinner at 8-o’clock. All proceeds to the
Entertainment Group, Torch Bearers for
Legacy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Also on June 5 is the Meet Me in Las
Vegas party at the Pickwick, a dinner-
dance which promises to be very bright.
It is inspired by the M.-G.-M. film of that
title. Proceeds are in aid of the Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of what use is a higher education?
Edinburgh University quiz-team, which
defeated an Australian team, couldn’t say
what “A fair cow” meant. Why, our
little Johnnie, aged five, knows that!
☆ ☆ ☆
A popular innovation which was
introduced at last year’s International Ball
is to be repeated this year—the
“young people’s table” arranged for
couples who wish to join a big party. All
they have to do is to mention “young
people’s table” when buying their tickets,
and they will be welcomed on the night of
the ball, which is set down for August 2
at the Trocadero.
* ☆ *
Mrs. C. M. Guiney was well enough on
Thursday to come home for a couple of
days from Lewisham Hospital, where she
has been receiving treatment. She
attended the meeting of the International
Ball committee, the committee-meeting ot
the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund, and the
card-party which she had organised at the
Town Hall that afternoon. She has, how-
ever, returned to Lewisham for a further
term there.
☆ ☆ ☆
The “S. M. Herald” on Monday:
“More homes were built last year than in
1954.” The “Daily Telegraph” on Mon-
day—“ Australia at the end of 1955 was
building 4396 fewer homes than at the
end of 1954.” Statistics cannot lie.


Missing Friends
GILBERT-NICHOL.—WILL anyone know-
ing the whereabouts of ESSALINE MAR-
GARET NICHOL, wife of JAMES JOSEPH
GILBERT, 'please contact the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne?
ERNEST JAY, formerly Warragamba and
Narrabri Districts. —ANYONE knowing
whereabouts please communicate COWLEY
& ALLEN, 70 King Street, Sydney.
WANTED known the whereabouts of
AMELIA CLARA LINKE, formerly of
Lowood, Queensland, last known address
Brassal, Ipswich, Queensland, about 23
years ago believed then married to a
policeman. Present age about 68 years.
Name of father HEINRICH LINKE, name
of mother MARIE EMILIE LINKE (nee
STARK). Please communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIMITED', 395
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GRAHAME ROBERT WILLIAM
SMITH late of Gosford.—TAKE NOTICE
that ALMA SMITH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1337 of 1956 on the
grounds of drunkenness and cruelty and
drunkenness and non-support If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 9th July 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor,
of Hunter Street, Newcastle West, or
MESSRS. J. K. DIXON & CO., Solicitors,
of 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE,SUPREME COURT OP NEW
' SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH ATKINS late of Wilbur
Street Lakemba.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY ATKINS has filed a Petition for
fof Divorce No. 1770 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 9th
July 1956 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. J. K.
DIXON & CO., Solicitors, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES LINDSAY
PERCIVAL late of 360 Liverpool Road
Enfield AND TO CLAIRE OROCII late of
11 Elm Street Auburn.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET ELLEN PERCIVAL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1577 of
1956 on the grounds of your adultery If
you the said WILLIAM CHARLES LIND-
SAY PERCIVAL wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 31st day of July 1956 This
notice is given to you the said CLAIRE
GROCH so that you may have an oppor-
tunity to apply to the Court to be
allowed in to defend the charge if you so
desire otherwise service will be deemed
to have been effected on you by the 29th
day of June 1956 A copy of the Petition
may be obtained without charge from
MESSIEURS HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors,
of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT "OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY CHARLES SMYTH late of
Lane Cove Road Ryde and also late of
Tamworth,—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GARET MAY SMYTH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4172 of 1955 on grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in 'the Divorce Registry King Street Syd-
ney by 23rd day of July 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GARLING, OARLING & MOORE,
Solicitors, 13 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Sea it at
MN6ARS
sSSt
DANHAR. GEDYE & MALLOGH LTD.
3
1 'v-
• :
<
mm
-
sSiwSßSßisgg^
From 6 Continents
and over the 7 Seas ...
World’s Finest Airliner
is serving
Australia
Lockheed Super Constellation
The latest in a lme of distinguished Lockheed airliners,
the 1049 G version of the Super Constellation is
serving Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort and
speed of the world’s most luxurious airliner. 21
world airlines feature Super Constellation service
over connecting routes which cross every ocean
and span every continent.
COMING World’s Longest
Range Airliner—the Super Constel-
lation 1649 A with its revolutionary
high-speed, long range wing. It will
make possible NON-STOP flights
between the capitals of the world.
Qantas and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines afford Super
Constellation service to 5 Continents from Australia.
LOCKHEED
LUXURY
AIRLINE R>
1
LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION Burbank
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Shows Galore
The prospect of five changes
of programme in seven days is
enough to appal any professional
sampler of the theatre, particu-
larly one who loves to hibernate
at this time of the year ; so it
is pleasant to record that, during
such an outbreak in the last week
or so, one went from show to
show without even a backward
thought for home and glowing
hearth.
The tour-of-duty began with
Cole Porter’s “Can-Can” at
Sydney Empire and, as The
Bulletin’s Melbourne com-
mentator has already reported,
it’s as entertaining a can-can
as any can-can can be, with
Judge Aristide Forestier (William
Newman) going abroad in Mont-
martre’s hotspots to gather proof
that the can-can is an immoral
business, and, of course, being
converted very smartly by La
Mome Pistache (Sheila Arnaud).
Round at the Tiv., the Don
Cossack Chorus and Dancers are
proving that, if they can’t can-
can —possibly they can —they
can toss their Russian folk-
songs about with all kinds of
effects, from cheerful roof-
shaking to the faintest of fine-
drawn melancholy. At times,
with the basses rumbling across
at the tenors, they sounded for all
the world like a duet between
the Queen Elizabeth and
seabirds high up somewhere.
The three other offerings of the
week, different in almost every-
thing, had one thing in common
—the suspense *of wondering
whether the young lady of the
piece will reach the compara-
tively safe shores of matrimony
or be wrecked before she is
launched.
In William Inge’s “Picnic,” at
the Independent, North Sydney,
it is a case of the girl preferring
an exciting wreck to a dull
launching. The play is set in
the yard of a smalltown clap-
board house in America’s Middle
West. A widow, anxious that her
daughter should do a little better
in marriage than she did, has
her almost married-off to a
wealthy, presentable young fellow
when a hobo of magnificent pro-
portions comes to town and
charts the course for the rocks.
A middle-aged schoolteacher
and the town’s grocer also throw
off a few frustrations, and the
schoolie reaches the shores of
matrimony after what might be
called a rough buffeting in the
surf. Almost everyone in the
play, in fact, seems to be suffer-
ing from one kind of frustration
or another, although the mani- -
festations of their frustrations are
sometimes open to question: the
middle-aged spinster, for in-
stance, who sighs aloud about a
big man fillin’-up the tiny rooms
—“and it was good”—and
messin’-up the kitchen or some-
thing—“and that was good, too.”
It may be different in
America’s Middle West, *of
course, but in present com-
mentator’s experience elderly
women of any matrimonial
status will soon tear a strip off
any man of any size who goes
about filling-up tiny rooms or
messin’-up the kitchen.
Such things aside, the
Independent’s players give the
piece a good going-over—they
are, perhaps, too emotionally
intense to be altogether warmly
human as well —and, if they miss
a few finer shades of character,
at least they swat the main points
with admirable accuracy.
In William Douglas Home’s
“The Reluctant Debutante,” at
Sydney Royal, the deb. in ques-
tion looks like being navigated
clean on to the rocks by an over-
eager mother. The piece is one
of those tolerant light-hearted
comments on English social life
which the same author made so
well in “The Chi 11 er n
Hundreds.”
Even the best of such items
are lost without appropriate
acting and production, and in
this case Roger Livesey brings
home the bacon on both counts.
His producing is smooth and,
apparently, effortless, and his
acting says twice as much as his
lines. Ursula Jeans (Mrs.
Livesey), as the mother, is one of
the most unaffectedly graceful
actresses seen in these parts for
some time, and Diana ten Hove
plays the title-role with becom-
ing naturalness. Fen el la'
Maguire, Diana Perryman,
Patrick Horgan and John
Meillon complete a good all-
round cast.
If, considering all things, one
must vote the Royal show the
best of the batch, it must also
be noted that Robin Lovejoy’s
production of Sheridan’s “The
Rivals” at the Elizabethan
Theatre is something right out
of the box —most accurately
conceived and admirably
executed in a spirit of graceful
laughter.
One would like to go on
giving Mr. Lovejoy all the credit
he merits for a hundred-and-one
touches in the production, but
there must be room to note
James Bailey’s richly tempered
Sir Anthony, Clement Mc-
Call in’s excellent Captain Jack,
Madge Ryan’s Mrs. Malaprop,
and Dinah Shearing, Diana
Davidson, Alistair Roberts,
Zoe Caldwell, James Mills,
Leonard Teale and the rest, who
respond like music to Mr. Love-
joy’s delicate touch.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦!<
Jean Martinon
The French conductor was at
his sparkling best at Sydney
Town Hall when he drew from
the Symphony Orchestra playing
of exuberance, charm and polish
in Bizet’s only symphony —
certainly the best ever written by
a 17-year-old, not excepting
Mozart and Schubert. Its engag-
ing melodies and deft orchestra-
tion, the great vitality of the
scherzo and the rich tone-color
of the final allegro vivace were
all pointed-up sharply. lan
Wilson’s oboe was highly effec-
tive in the slow movement
against the pizzicato violas.
The orchestra also gave
dynamism, accuracy and balance
to Berlioz’s “Roman Carnival”
overture, its whirlwind gaiety
capped by a salterello of fine
abandon, and De Falla’s “Love,
the Magician,” in which the con-
ductor proved equally adept at
securing the full sensuousness of
the pantomime-section and the
headlong drive and weird
atmosphere of the “Ritual Fire-
dance.”
The series of miniature tone-
pictures which comprise Ravel’s
“Mother Goose” Suite were fine-
drawn and ethereal. Clive
Amadio made the most of the
opportunities offered by Ibert’s
“Concertino da Camera for
Saxophone and Orchestra,” but,
except for a few lucid bars in the
larghetto, there aren’t many
offering.
♦> *!♦
Clara Skriptschenko
Programme - annotations
described Beethoven’s “Ham-
merklavier” Sonata as “a
superhuman, symphonically -
conceived work, almost impos-
sible to play,” and, after a pre-
vious glance at the score, this
commentator would be inclined
to delete “almost.”
But, at Sydney Con., Clara
Skriptschenko played the thing
with such facility as to fool one
into believing that piano-playing
is easy: in the mighty allegro
first-movement she produced a
strong tone, which was sustained
through the next movement, a
scherzo. Then she discarded
strength for thoughtfulness in
the largo; while the great fugue,
of which.the subject alone would
take the average student weeks
to learn, was handled brilliantly.
After this, a well-deserved
interval. Then “Malaguegna”
and “Seguidillas,” two engaging
little Spanish pieces by Albeniz
—one could almost imagine the
rattle of castanets in the back-
ground. Two Praeludes of Bar-
winskyj followed, one gloomy,
one glad, and, as a final offering,
Brahms’s “Variations and Fugue
on a Theme of Handel” —tossed-
off pleasingly, although there
were some blurred octaves in the
25th variation.
Arthursts
Indian Paintings
Sixty-three Indian paintings,
mainly gouaches, presented to
the Commonwealth Government
by Col. T. G. Gayer-Anderson
and Major R. G. Gayer-
Anderson, are on exhibition at
the N. S. Wales National Gallery.
They range in style from the
brilliant, merciless little portraits
of wicked Emperors and nobles,
such “Rajah Ram Singh of
Jodhpur,” radiant as a fallen
angel in white, and “The
Emperor Akbar Holding a
Hawk” and looking !ike another,
plumper hawk himself, to the
doll-like sketches of women in
flat, decorative landscapes;
such curiously static scenes of"
hunting, battle or comedy as
“A Ruler Defending Himself
from a Tiger” and “A Lady
Chasing a Cat Which Has
Seized Her Parrot” to the much
livelier decoration of “Two Girls
Performing the Kartik Dance,”
where flying arms, legs and
draperies make the ladies look
like a pair of whirling grass-
hoppers. With some of the
comparatively recent tourist-art
or pilgrim-art thrown-in —such
as “The Baby Krishna,” from
Kalighat, about 1880, like a
modem, surrealist fantasy in
vivid blue: obviously degenerate,
but lively—the showings provide
altogether a most interesting
summary of many phases of
Indian art.


The Cluld Locked Out
By RAY MATHEW
IN the days when I thought
about writing a ghost-story
just to show that I could, it
never occurred to me to
start one in so hygienic a place
as an exhibition of modern art.
But as things happened the only
ghost-story in which I’ve been
personally involved began at an
exhibition of contemporary
sculpture.
It was there, creeping amongst
the exhibits, that I met the
Johansons for the first time in
six or seven years. In that
atmosphere the sight of any
human face would have been
pleasant, but Joe and Phillipa
Johanson were humans I liked
and who I thought liked me. So
I was doubly pleased.
Ours was an odd relationship,
though. We had every interest
in common and every attitude
different; we had never become
easy friends. Phil and I always
got on well-enough, the way one
gets on well with her type of
woman: we talked, and if I
couldn’t agree with her I tried
to change the subject.
But Joe and I were for ever
on the brink of being real
friends. As he was quiet and
thoughtful, afraid to talk, and I
was talkative and thoughtful,
afraid to be quiet, we had never,
although we admired each
other’s work and wanted to get
on, once struck a sudden quiet
that we could share.
Before his marriage we had a
series of awkward meetings in
pubs. Afterwards we had a series
of even more awkward dinners.
They ran to a pattern. Phillipa
chattered, then I chattered; then
Phil, then I. There was no
exchange; it was monologues,
like a game, and never on any
topic but literature. Joe used
to listen and occasionally place
an ironic sentence or a sober
judgment wherever it would do
most damage to the flow of talk.
I regarded this as anti-social and
cold-blooded and used to get
annoyed and more and more
extravagant in my enthusiasms,
flinging “fantastic” and “extra-
ordinary” around like conjunc-
tions. Dreadful dinners, they
were. But there were several of
them. Our writing showed that
we should have been friends, and
Phillipa was always sure that it
would happen.
But that was what Phillipa
was like; she believed that any-
thing could be achieved. She
had always had faith in every-
thing. I knew her long before
I knew Joe, long before I knew
that Joe knew her, and I was
astounded at their marriage.
They seemed so different.
Joseph Johanson looked “pale
and interesting,” wore dark suits
and had perfect manners. His
speech was slow almost to
drawling and so deliberate that
I told him it was unpremeditated
crime. He took this very well,
and laughed. But then he always
laughed at my jokes, only he
didn’t punch me or yell at me
or call me a fool or behave at all
in the way I expected humans to
behave.
So that although I knew that
I liked him and was as friends
with him as anyone in the world
was, I was always being annoyed
by him and wanting to bang him
and wake him up. “I think his
work is very good indeed,” was
the highest praise I ever heard
him give, and he usually added
after it, “but perhaps it is being
rather overrated at the moment.”
Phillipa, who was all
enthusiasm, was equally annoy-
ing. She called so many things
wonderful and marvellous that
she bad no praise left, and you
never knew how much of her
talk to discount. She was
irritating too because she worked
so hard to be intellectual. She
never read a book; she “studied”
it, or “did” it. And she started
innumerable courses. She was
always working for exams and
then —because of some flaw in
herself that made her fling away
whatever site had—she wouldn’t
sit for the papers or would do
only half of them. And then she
was in despair, because she was
a failure. Which was annoy-
ingly silly, because she always
knew the work. In fact, by
examination standard, she was
one of the best-educated people
possible.
But that’s the kind of educa-
tion that depresses me, and after
her surprising union with Joe
and our half-a-dozen dismal
dinners, I stopped seeing either
of them regularly. We met
occasionally at literary do’s, of
course. They went to all of them
because of Phillipa’s passion for
improvement and, as I weht to
some, we had to meet. I hadn’t
really talked to them for six
years.
TJUT they seemed very pleased
to see me, and Phil called out
to me. They were crouching
beside a huge pregnant stone
called “Introspection” that Phil
asserted “had something.”
“Going to have something,” I
said.
Joe smiled and held out his
hand. I hate shaking hands
because it’s usually so formal
and meaningless, but with Joe it
was the nearest to “Glad to see
you” that he could come, and
I shook hands with him warmly
and wondered if at last we might
hit it off. I started to speak but
Phil jumped in. She usually did.
* “Isn’t it awful! ” she said.
“The show, 1 mean. So earnest.
But you must admit, Will, you
must admit that some of it,
strange as it seems, has some-
thing. Feeling for texture!
Stone-quality! Solidity! It’s
there. You do know it’s there.”
“But is that all it’s trying to
achieve?” asked Joe, the.voice
of reason. “Is it enough to try
for?”
“Not human,” I said. “And
that’s what art is about. All this
is fun-and-games. Like Edith
Sitwell.”
“Not like Catherine the
Great,” said Phillipa, and we all
laughed. We laughed for much
longer than was necessary
because it was a formula
friendship-joke. I felt suddenly
that they were real friends, and
noticed that they were happy.
“You seem well,” I said.
“Everything’s wonderful,’
said Phillipa. “We’ve bough
some land and built a house. The
land was terribly cheap—
because of the ghost—and it
left us the money, enough
money to build the house.
Lovely it is! We’ve never lived
in a house before. And now
we’re so suburban that you
wouldn’t read about us, not in
a novel, anyway. We were so
tired of rooms.”
“Possessions clog around
you,” said Joe. “You need
space.”
“But I can remember” I
began to say. Then I stopped.
There was no point in saying
that I could remember when
they had lived in a house. It
was the first year of their
marriage, when Phillipa was
pregnant and rather miserable
because it would interfere with
her Arts-course and Joe had
gone round looking so happy
that you’d have thought he
would die. They had lived in a
house, then. But Joe had come
home one night and found Phil
at the bottom of the stairs,
unconscious". She was murmur-
ing, “As if I wanted to, as if I
wanted to.” She was all right
though, nothing broken, only
later the baby was born dead.
There was no point in remem-
bering any of that.
“Such a lovely block of land,”
she was saying. “Bushy. Gum-
trees and all A creek down
the back. Joe said that you’d
love it. And we’ve got a goanna,
only it’s really a lizard, that we
call Sebastian, and it comes
when you call it.”
“Well, it comes when there’s
food,” said Joe. “You’d like the
place, Will,”
“Do come and stay,” said
Phil, pouting very charmingly,
“It’s so far away that we see
no one.”
“And I’m better than no one?”
“Why don’t you come?” said
Jbe.
So I did.
TT was, as Phillipa said, a lovely
block of land: the end of a
short street with a park on one


Sea it at
mem
USSV
ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
'
X
m
XcfcSc wystefc
,
Mr. W. (Bill) Dwyer, Orchardist, of "Currahween," Kelso (who
has been an Ampol user for ten years), says, “We run two
tractors on Ampol Power Kerosine and use Ampol fuel in trucks
and the car. Oils and greases are all Ampol as well. Pm happy
with the products and I like the service that 1 have always received.”
✓ •
Use the best . . . Australia's own
DANGAR. GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Hj||p
8(
n
a
fit
a
n
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate t Lighting Kerosine
9 Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM7,?'
side and a reserve at the back ;
magpies, kookaburras, the works.
“A Jindyworobak Anthology,’
I said, “and only an hour from
town.” Joe started to explain to
me what a useful, indeed neces-
sary, movement the Jindy-
worobaks represented, but I
stopped him. “Why tell me?
What am I?” I said seriously,
and then I waved my arms like
a windmill. “But joke, man!
The other way lies madness.”
And he laughed at me, so that
was all right.
The house itself was a sur-
prise, although in some ways
it was like Joe. It was func-
tional and precise, and it was
right, too. It was a very modern,
very useful house. 1 stayed to
dinner.
“There was a house here,” said
Phil, “a shambles. Weatherboard
a hundred years worn. Falling to
pieces. We pulled it down and
sold what we could.”
“It was quite good business,”
said Joe. “We made some
money.”
“We built the house modern,”
said Phil, “to lay the ghost. Oh,
I didn’t tell you! That was why
it was cheap. The owner believed
the story and that's all that
mattered. About a dead child.”
“A dead child,” 1 said, and
irrelevantly remembered that
the house had no stairs.
“He was an odd man,” said
Phil, “uncommunicative. The
owner, 1 mean. Paranoiac type.
If society wouldn’t persecute
him, something else would.
Determined about it, he was.”
“What did the ghost do?”
“We don’t know much,” said
Joe. “He was very secretive
about it.”
“He said it was just terrible,”
said Phil ; “that he couldn’t
stand the memories, that it
wanted to get him.”
“That it wanted to get in,
dear.”
“You’re so pedantic, Joe!
Isn’t he pedantic, Will? That it
wanted to get in.”
“Why didn’t he let it in?”
“That’s just what I asked him.
‘Why don’t you let it in?’ And
he just looked at me. So oddly.
‘You don’t understand, ma’am.’
That’s what he said, just like
that. But, of course, I understood
perfectly. He was just a para-
noiac type.”
“He made it a condition of the
sale,” said Joe, before Phil could
take a breath, “that the old place
be pulled down. And he let us
have it cheap.”
“And now he’s dead,” said
Phillipa. “That was odd, wasn't
it? The day the whole thing was
signed. Of course he’d been ill,
and everyone expected it,
but”
“His heart,” said Joe.
“But just before,” Phil went
on, “just before he died he said,
‘l’m no use to it now.’ Or
something like that. And of
course the locals are sure he
meant the ghost. It’s quite
countrified here. They believe
it all. But that’s a good thing
in some ways. Not even the
kids’ll come past the front-gate.
Which does give the garden a
chance.”
“It is odd,” said Joe. “The
district is overrun with dogs.
They’re interesting to watch, you
know. They have a sort of social
pattern of their own, with one
dog as leader. They congregate
in the park next door and then
troop round on what look very
like planned expeditions, into
that house, into the next one.
But never into this one. It’s
because we've put up a good
fence, I suppose, but it does
seem odd, sometimes.”
“I don't see anything odd
about a good fence behaving
like a good fence.”
“But it is, Will,” said Phillipa.
“Next-door terrible people,
number-eleven have a fence
just like ours and the dogs walk
all over their”
“Number-eleven!” I said and
started to laugh. “What number
are you?”
“Why, I never thought of it.
1.. . We’re ... We must be”-
“-VTUMBER-THIRTEEN,” said
1 ' Joe. There was an odd little
pause. I was the only one laugh-
ing. “Are you frightened?” he
said.
“Terrified,” I answered as
solemnly as I could. “You’ve
staged it perfectly. I wouldn’t
stay here even for publicity. The
last bit, though, number-
thirteen ; that’s a bit too much.”
“Yes, it is,” said Phillipa. “It’s
too much.”
“Yes, T suppose” said Joe
so slowly that I wanted to push
him. “I suppose it is.”
“There have been noises,” said
Phil, suddenly, speaking very
quickly and rather loudly. “But
there always are noises in a new-
house. The wood settling-down,
I suppose. And then the trees.
They make cringing noises in
the wind. Quite frightening. If
you were nervous . . . But they
don’t explain the noises on the
roof, scratching and pulling.”
“There are possums,” said Joe.
“Phil gets upset.”
“But we haven’t seen any
possums”
“Number-eleven has,” said
Joe. “They saw them yesterday.”
“Do you think” said Phil,
drawling like Joe. “No, it’s too
silly!” she said quickly. “But
do you think that even the
possums wouldn’t come here?”
Joe smiled and I laughed. And
because I could see that she
wasn’t altogether joking I
changed the subject, and for
the rest of the evening we talked
about pottery (Phillipa’s latest
course), Forster’s novels and neo-
classicism in poetry. Nice,
natural ordinary subjects that
left Joe and me in complete
agreement poles apart. Our
temperaments were too different,
apparently for us even to agree
without irritation, and I was glad
when it was time to go. Joe went
to get my coat. As soon as he
left the room, Phil came over to
me.
“I’m glad you came,” she said
in a whisper that startled me.
It was so conspiratorial that I
felt like a guilty lover and a
noise from Joe in the next room
made me jump. It leapt into
mind that that was what she
wanted and I cursed myself for
a fool for getting into a situ-
ation I didn’t want.
“My life’s so complicated
now,” I said rather vaguely.
She ignored me. “Do come,
and stay. Do come and stay. 1
must have someone here.
One night I heard it.
Joe didn’t, but I did.
It said, ‘Let me in ; I’m only little
and I won’t hurt.’ And, Will —
Will! What if Joe’s right and
I didn’t hear it? What if it’s
only me?”
Her face was white, or it
seemed so, and there was a crease
running down from each eye.
She iooked older than I’d ever
seen her. Joe came back.
“No,” said Phillipa, as though
finishing a conversation, “the
pottery doesn’t mean a thing.
But then, nothing I do means a
thing.”
And in a few minutes, after
a bit of chit-chat and a “come
again” from Joe, I was walking
up the street away from Phillipa
and number-thirteen. I was
amazed by the way she had
changed her tone and manner
when Joe had come back into
the room, as though she'd been
deceiving him for years. Per-
haps she has, I thought. And the
thought pleased me because I
like people to enjoy themselves as
long as they do it hopefully and
don’t upset others. And then I
travelled the long hour back to
town and more or less forgot
it all.
(Continued on next page)


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” No. 23*
4.
:
M : ms&m
MaiilSS
DAWC-S PT
SSI
..,~rJri^XCZ y .
MS.
1
IJOM&
■#
c<w
%
\&y
TL
r*T,
&&&'■*
t*rP*t
*****
a«Efc
3>®
0
%
_. w
*||? -Sfte 0/ Dickson's Flour Mill
The First Wheel to turn by Steam
The first steam engine in Australia began
work in 1815, driving a Sydney flour mill.
Its site was a large area of land near the
headwaters of Darling Harbour, then
known as Cockle Bay.
The owner of this historic stationary
engine was John Dickson (Dixon Street is
incorrectly named after him), an English
engineer who migrated to New South
Wales in 1813.
Dickson had been greatly interested in the
use of steam in industry. In 1781, James
Watt had introduced his “Sun and Planet”
wheels “and other means ■of making a
steam engine give a continuous revolving
motion to a shaft provided with a fly-
wheel.” When he migrated, Dickson
decided to bring one of these engines to
the new colony, in the well-founded hope
of making his fortune from it.
Dickson and his engine arrived in Sydney
on the ship “Earl Spencer” on October 9,
1813. Another ship brought him a com-
plete saw-milling plant.
On his arrival he received what was
described as a “most convenient and
eligible situation in the town of Sydney,
having a run of fresh water through it for
him to erect his mills, steam engine and
various machinery on.” / This grant con-
sisted of an area of nearly 16 acres, which
included nearly all the land bounded to-
day by Hay, George and Goulburn Streets
to Sussex Street, thence along that street to
Liverpool Street and down that street to
Darling Harbour.
Dickson erected his steam engine, machinery
and various buildings on this land, and, in
the presence of Governor Macquarie, the
engine r was set in motion on May 29, 1815.
This was the first time in Australia that, a
wheel was turned by steam.
Up to that time, all the wheat produced in
the Colony was ground either by hand or
by windmills, but, as a contemporary re-
port said, “at best one of the windmills
could only grind 70 bushels a week.” The
Sydney Gazette reported on June 3, 1815,
that, with the advent of steam, one pair of
stones would be able “to grind an average
of 10 bushels of wheat an hour.”
Dickson’s engine had a surprisingly long
life. There is a record of a new cylinder
being cast for this engine in 1835 and
again in 1903.
When Dickson arrived in Sydney in 1813,
he brought a 15-year-old apprentice,
Thomas Barker. Barker (who married
Dickson’s daughter, Joanna, in 1823) went
into the milling business in a big way. His
stone-towered windmill at the corner of
Darlinghurst Road and Roslyn Street,
King’s Cross, was a landmark for many
years and is seen in early pictures of Sydney.
In 1827, Barker acquired a steam engine
which had been imported two years earlier
by Daniel Cooper and Solomon Levey,
establishing his business on Darling
Harbour near his father-in-law’s mill.
The thoroughfares Barker Street and Steam
Mill Street remain to-day to identify the
location of Barker’s mill.
Although engines run by electricity, petrol,
diesel and other fuels have come to play a
crucial part in our expanding industrial
life, steam is still of vital importance in
Australia after serving us well for more
than 140 years.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHAIEAU nNIINDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
•
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for over 118 years
* Copie s oj each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application
HF23
OUT Phillipa rang me the next
week. “Will,” she said,
“you’ve got to come down this
weekend. Come down and stay.
You've got to, do you hear?
Joe says so, too. He’s heard it.
We’ve both heard it, now.”
I told her not to be silly, that
Joe at least ought to have more
sense, that 1 couldn’t come
running at the tinkle of a bell,
that 1 couldn’t do anything
anyway, that they were both
hysterica] literary types, that it
all came from leaving a civilised
city with trams and going to the
wilds ; and that of course I’d
come.
She said that she was glad,
and that as she was in town to
shop we could go down together.
1 was to meet her for coffee.
She was there when I arrived,
late as usual. On the table was
the usual Phillipa-pile of parcels
—shapes that defied the imagina-
tion—and in her string-bag were
some, library-books. I couldn’t
see the titles, though 1 tried-to
as soon as I sat down, but I
recognised the shape and color
of one of them- it looked like
Fisher’s Outline of Abnormal
Psychology, the book that
terrified me while I was doing
Arts
There was another book open
in front of her, but she wasn’t
reading it. She was staring into
the distance and smoking
properly, in a thoughtful, slow-
sucking kind of a way quite
different from her usual puff-
puffing which was just a waste of
cigarettes. The book was Hart’s
Psychology of Insanity.
I teased her about reading it.
“j did psvcholoev for a counle
of terms,” she sank “1 thought
"Joes books are not useless.
M y. books are not useless. I
was loudmouthed, indignant;
joking to brighten her up. She
stubbed her cigarette and I saw
m
all with her lipstick on them.
“Will,” she said, “1 once did
a terrible thing, a terrible thing.”
‘‘Don’t remind me of your oil-
painting days!”
She took no notice of me. “I
knew then,” she said, “that it
was a terrible thing to do to Joe.
I knew later that it was a terrible
thing to me. But —but what if it
was terrible to something, some-
one else . . .? Give me a
cigarette. I’m out of them.”
“You're smoking too much.
Stunt your growth. Infant
Phenomenon.”
“Infant - phenomenon,” said
Phillipa in a tone that meant she
wasn’t thinking of the Dickens
character. “That’s all it is, I
suppose. Two words. Quite
natural, really. Just an infant-
phenomenon.” •
“You mean your ghost?” I
wasn’t really following the con-
versation.
“Yes, my ghost.” And she
spoke so intensely that I was
almost frightened. “Joe’s heard
it now,” she said. “We were
lying in bed”
“Sordid details!” I was still
trying to be funny.
“And the voice came. A
child’s voice. And a knocking
at the door. But high up. Higher
than a child could reach. It was
terrifying.”
‘‘What did it say?”
“ ‘Let me in. I won’t hurt. I
only want you to let me in.’”
“Well, why didn’t you? Didn’t
Joe go and see?”
She didn’t answer.
“You mean Joe just stayed
there? He didn’t open the door ?
He didn’t find out?”
“No. He didn’t find out.”
“Why not?” J'oe who had to
have everything labelled and
known; Joe who had standards
and principles; I couldn’t
imagine Joe just lying there
listening.
“Because I wouldn’t let him
go.”
“You weren’t frightened of
evil spirits, harm to humans and
that sort of thing? You with
two terms of psychology!”
“I was frightened of what it
might tell him.”
“What could it tell him? Some
perfectly natural explana-
tion”-
“I can’t see how it could be
perfectly natural, Will.” She
looked quite sick. “But if you
came, if you stayed with us, if
it came again—then you could
go. You could open the door
and then shut it behind you.
You could find out”- —
“Shut it behind me? Why?”
“So Joe couldn’t hear.”
“Really, Phil! ” I was becom-
ing impatient. I couldn’t under-
stand which way her words were
going. “You’re perfectly willing
to lock me outside with your
ghost. My life’s of no value I
suppose, but”
“Perhaps he didn’t hear it,
Will. Perhaps he only pretended,
to humor me.” And then she
spoke so softly that 1 had to lean
over the table to hear her. “Did
you know that since the
accident, because of the
accident, I can’t have any
children? Not one child. None.”
“Well,” I said, “it’s bad luck,
but you’re lucky you’re alive.
And you don’t need children.”
“Joe,” she said.
“Joe has his writing. And
you’ve got”
“I’ve got Joe,” she said. “I
suppose I’ve got Joe.”
1 had been going to say that
she had her pottery, but I didn’t
mind agreeing with her. “Yes,
you've got Joe. I think you’re
lucky, both of you. I envy you.
A bachelor’s life is terribly
hard.”
“You are funny, Will. You
always make me laugh.” But
she wasn’t laughing. “I’m look-
ing older, aren’t I?”
“You’re babbling like a young
bride,” I said. But it was true.
She was looking older.
“I’m older than Joe,” she said.
“Eight years. Come on, we’d
better go or he’ll be wondering
what we’re up to. Though I
don’t suppose he would. I’d
better pay; you’re always penni-
less. Perhaps you’re a good
poet.”
TT was an odd dinner we had
that night, not the food,
though Phil’s cooking was
always likely to be odd enough,
but the feeling.
It seemed so stupid, the reason
1 was there. Too stupid to talk
about. So we didn’t. Phillipa
pattered on about how she’d
decided to study psychology
again because it was all that
modern authors were interested
in and Joe pointed out mildly
that some authors were still old-
fashioned enough to call it sex.
Then I pattered on about my
new theories on nationalism in
literature, and Joe told me I was
an enthusiast, and I was rude to
him. It all went off successfully
enough, only quite obviously we
were not talking of what we
were thinking about. Still, I sup-
pose that’s true of most literary
dinners.
When it was bedtime, Joe
came into my room. “I’m glad
you came,” he said.
“Good.” I was embarrassed.
“I’m worried,” he said. He
stood biting his top-lip for a
moment. It was an action I’d
seen before. It meant he was
coming to a decision. He sat on
the bed.
“I thought it was Phil,” he
said. “Her nerves. She’s not
been well. When she lost the
baby, when after all that time it
was dead, had been dead all
that time . . . Nine-months
must seem a long time, you
know. In a woman’s mind nine-
months, I imagine, is a very long
time.”
He looked at me for confirm
tion and I found myself noddin
like an idiot.
“The accident,” he said. “Sie
must have half-wanted tle
accident. The baby was
nuisance, then. She had h
university work and—and
were like young lovers, then,
suppose I half-thought of it as
nuisance, too. She took som
thing. I don’t know what. Pe
haps it was just for a headach
There was a bottle without
label. But she took somethin
and it made her giddy. That
why she fell. She doesn't kno
I know that much, and that’s a
I know.”
He sat quiet and I got into m
pyjamas and wondered what sor
of thing one could say. “While
she was unconscious she wa
saying, ‘As if I wanted to.’ ”
He smiled. “As if she wantec
to —then. Now it’s too late
And now this voice comes,
was frightened at first because
didn’t hear it. 1 thought it was in
her mind. She’s not really been
well since. And I made up my
mind to pretend to hear it. But,
Will, I did. And now I don’t
know. I’m—‘frightened’ I sup-
pose is the word —frightened for
another reason: I don’t know.’
/I was ready for bed now anc
had no excuse for silence except
that I could think of nothing to
say. “I’ll listen,” I said. “We’l
see. Perfectly natural explana-
tion.”
Joe looked pleased. I couldn’t
see why. I felt like a fool.
“Good-night,” he said.
I got into bed and considered
reading, but I’d been given too
much to think about, so I
switched-off the light. 1 lay in
the dark and listened. I could
hear vague noises from Joe and
Phil. The room was very dark.
There was no moonlight, it was
cloudy. 1 fell asleep.
I woke later with a start. I’d
been dreaming: a terrible dream,
children calling, people going
mad and not telling one another,
and me running around with
piles of poems. There was a noise
in the room ; that was what had
woken me, and I sat up, startled.
But the noise was outside, out-
side of the window; a rustle-
rustling like cloth, a scratching,
a trying to get in. I switched on
the light.
It was a tree, a tree near the
window. A wind had risen. The
tree was bending. I looked at the
twig that scraped the window.
“A perfectly natural explana-
tion!” I fell asleep again, sure
of the logic of it all; life is as
lucid as Forster.
AND the next day was good.
We were all gay at breakfast.
The sun shone through the very
modern, very useful windows and
everything seemed fun.
I -acted the story of me and
the tree with so many additions
that even Joe was laughing
loudly. And Phil told us about
her jam-making days (the
marmalade was ffom a local
bazaar) and how it finished as
toffee and her mother’s false
teeth had stuck together. We
laughed like anything. And we
didn’t mention literature once.
Then Joe and I pottered into
the garden and gravely took turns
at feeding Sebastian, who took
the food as though we weren’t
there. I told Joe about the
goannas out west and the one
that terrified Gungahla. He told
me how he had once almost
killed a snake but it had looked
too proud to die. We sat
smoking quietly and thought
about snakes and goannas and
the indifferent, proud, crawly
things that despised us, and were
real friends.
And then we had a picnic
down by the creek. “In our own
backyard,” said Phil "a
picnic! ” And we devoured more
food than we needed and gulped


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed .my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..,
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Sea it at
mms
to/
OANGftR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
V'/X'
pL d mi tkati* right for the
4
I
r:
n* 5
\z>
mtiralm climate
/
ill
i
ma
CORRUGATED “FIBROLITE”
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS (Reg’d. Trade Mark)
NEW CONTOUR
Look ahead! Save worries in later years Specify a Hardie’s Fibroiite New
Contour Corrugated Roof—the roof that improves with age. Right for the
Australian climate, New Contour Corrugated Asbestos-Cement Sheets are sea-air
proof, rust-proof and minimise condensation. A specially designed corrugation for
3" side lap fixing offers you a saving of approximately 10% in the cost of roofing.
In addition, the neat, weathertight laps ensure enhanced appearance and maximum
weather protection. Write today for further information on the roof that is
economical, durable and so attractive. “ Cut your roofing overhead with Hardie's
New Contour Corrugated “ Fibroiite ” Asbestos-Cement Sheets.
POST THIS COUPON NOWI
Please sejid me illustrated leaflet for "FIBROLITE'
Corrugated Roofing FREE and POST FREE.
NAME 1
ADDRESS -
CH4I/46/B
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets.
Sydney.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King St
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
“Could you tell me if my husband has deposited any
money in our joint account lately?”
two billies of tea and tore to
pieces our mutual friends and
stretched on the bank and looked
up at the sky. When I sighed
with fullness and satisfaction and
Joe said “Yes” in a definite voice
and Phil said, “Life is really very
good,” we all knew that it was.
And what’s more, knew that it
was the same life we were think-
ing about.
Dinner was good, too. “Tea,”
I said. “You must call it tea.
Be Australian and die!”
“Be Australian and live! ”
said Joe.
Afterwards Phil worked with
some clay. “I haven’t wanted to
for so long,” she said. “But I
do now. I’ll make you an ash-
tray, Will. Men always need
ashtrays. And I’ll write some-
thing rude on it. You’ll be
ashamed to show it. But it will
be useful.”
Joe and I sat and smoked, he
with his solemn pipe and I with
my flippant cigarettes. Occasion-
ally we spoke, but I forget what
about. It was a very good time.
And nothing happened during
the night.
Sunday was cloudy, with the
threat of rain, but we three found
it bright enough., We loafed and
browsed and at tea —out of a tin
—we all sat without talking in
the pleasantest way. And after-
wards we even managed to
discuss a book without anyone
getting upset. Not even me. And
so to bed.
TT was the rain that woke me.
-*■ It was pelting down, and the.
very modern, very useful
bedroom-window was rattling
like an old-fashioned one. I lay
there listening.
And then I heard a child’s
voice, thin but clear.
“Let me in,” it said. “Let me
in.”
It was piteous, the pleading
tone, but it was dreadful, too,
for it was not a child’s voice, not
a living child’s. It was too
strange, too humble, too real. It
was frightening. And it kept
saying it over and over again.
“Let me in, let pie in, I won’t
hurt you.”
I was too afraid to stay there
listening, and I got out of bed
because I had to. I called to
Joe because I had to. It was
too strange, too strange. I was
afraid it was in my mind. “Joe!
Joe! ” I ran to the other bedroom.
The light was out, but they
were both awake.
“We can hear it,” said Joe.
“We can hear it, too.”
He spoke so calmly, so accept-
ingly, that that frightened me,
too, and I tried to switch the
light on. But it was turned-off
from the bed. It just clicked.
The rain slashed on their
window and I could hear the
trees by the creek making their
cringing sound and the voice
pleading, pleading. “Aren’t you
going?” I said. “Are you mad?”
“Yom go,” said Phillipa, and
her voice trembled, afraid. “You
go, Will. You go.” And they
both lay there.
I was furious with them both
for fools. I could feel rage burst-
ing my head. Couldn’t they hear?
Couldn’t they understand? It
had to be stopped. It couldn’t
go on, it mustn’t go on, that
pleading and pleading.
And the voice said, “I only
want to tell you. I didn’t mean
to hurt. Let me in and tell you.
Let me in.” Then it stopped, and
in what seemed like its silence
Phillipa screamed. It was a
gasp really, I suppose, a breath,
but it seemed very loud and
terrible.
“I’ll go, then,” I said. “I’ll go.”
“We’ll both go,” said Joe. But
the voice had stopped.
“You mustn’t hear.” Phillipa
was holding him.
“It’s all right, dear. I know.
I know.”
“Did you know?” She was
whimpering. “Did you know?”
I left them then. I ran out
through the living-room to the
front-door. I couldn’t find the
catch in the dark; and, when 1
did, it was difficult. I wrenched
at it, and suddenly .it gave, and
I flung the door open. The wind
caught it from me and banged it
against the wall. The rain
washed inside on to the carpet.
I ran to the step. The rain
needled on my eyes.
There was nothing there.
“There’s nothing here,” I
called. I walked to the front-gate.
It was open. I shut it and leant
against it, wet and cold. My
pyjamas were clinging to me and
I felt sick with excitement, dis-
appointment, I don’t know what.
SUDDENLY in the street-lamp
at the far corner I saw two
women. Just for a second, then
they were gone.
One was in black, the other in
white. For a moment I thought
—I don’t know what I thought.
But for a moment I was mad and
I thought heaven and earth had
more than I’d ever be able to
understand, that it was all too
dark and frightening. And the
rain fell down.
Then I realised what they
were: a woman in a mackintosh
and sou’wester, and a woman in
a white dress; hurrying through
the rain. They had nothing to
do with me, nothing. And that
knowledge was worse than the
fear. I leaned against the gate,
tired and sick, breathing heavily,
wet to the bones.
“Will! Will!” Joe was calling
from the house. “Will, Where
are you?”
I turned, still leaning heavily
on the gate. He was standing in
the doorway, in a beam of light.
“I’m coming,” I said. But he
couldn’t have heard because he
went on calling, and it sounded
silly because I was so close. I
walked back to him slowly.
“Perfectly natural,” I said, and
tried to smile. “Perfectly natural
explanation. How’s Phillipa?”
“All right,” said Joe. “Every-
thing’ll be all right. The ghost —
that poor thing—it’s laid now.
It must be. We know. We know
all it could say.” He looked very
tired. “Thanks,” he said.
The next morning I went back
to town.
A FEW weeks later Phillipa
came to see me. “Your
ashtray,” she said —“here it
is. Fired and glazed and all. I
didn’t have the courage to write
anything rude in it. Just your
name.” ,
“Rude enough,” I said.
“You know you were
right,” she said—“a perfectly
natural explanation. A woman
came to see me, hoped I hadn’t
been disturbed, her little girl . .
Will, her little girl is forty! She
calls her a ‘natural.’ Like a pun
it is, Will. ‘A perfectly natural
explanation! ’ The owner’s child
—she killed him; an accident.
And now they keep her in a
cellar. Quite eighteenth-century!
And when she gets away—she
wants to say she’s sorry. She
wants to play. That’s all.
“All the rest —all the rest was
us, me ; coincidence. It’ll never
happen again. They’re putting
her in a home, because they’re
old and might die and' what
would become of her? The
other night—they came and took
her from our place. They didn’t
any lights. They hoped we
weren’t disturbed. And —and
it’ll never happen again.” .
“Good,” I said.
“So you can come down and
stay again. Joe would like you
to.”
“Yes, I will,” I said. “Now
that you’re happy.”
“Yes,” she said, “there’s noth-
ing wrong, now. And it’s a
lovely spot, even if it was cheap.
There’s nothing wrong now.”
And she began to cry. “I’ll
make some more ashtrays,” she
said —“so useful.”


Responsible Government
The Australian Vision
By M. H. ELLIS
This article deals with some interesting and important phases of the
development which turned Australia in a mere 66 years from a wilderness
with a few starving convicts and 1 Marines clinging to a ledge on its
eastern coast into a well-vitalised and nationally conscious self-governing
country on its way to greatness.
THE first responsible
Parliament of New South
Wales met on May 22,
1856, and the centenary
is being celebrated as if
the original event was the
Millennium.
It wasn’t.
It was merely the surprisingly
early consummation of a long
series of progressive develop-
ments which had led gradually
to the beginnings of responsible
government in Australia, and to
the beginning of a further series
of developments towards
effective nationality, in which
finality is not yet achieved.
. The first people whose atten-
tion became riveted on Austra-
lia as a future centre of settle-
ment were the strategists. Their
attention was attracted to the
Pacific Ocean even before they
realised the nature of this con-
tinent or the extent of its spread.
They were attracted, indeed,
rather to an idea than a reality—
the idea of a Great South Con-
tinent, somewhere between New
Zealand and Patagonia, which
they could occupy, turn into a
base that would outflank the
Spanish possessions in the
Americas, and generally make
extremely valuable in time of
war.
The second Earl Egmont, First
Lord of the Admiralty from
1763-66, dwelt lovingly on the
idea, of which was born the
Wallis-Carteret expedition. The
French were not much behind in
their thinking ; hence the voyage
of Bougainville. And the
presence of Bougainville in the
Pacfic with French naval ships
and facilities stimulated British
effort.
Cook’s first expedition, which
for the first time really defined
the nature and extent of New
Zealand and made it clear how
far to the eastward the coasts
of Australia lay, was partly thfe
natural consequence.
Yonge’s Plan
The results of Cook’s 1768-
1771 exploration generated quite
a lot of unofficial thinking about
the new continent, including that
crystallised in the plan of Matra,
whose ideas were largely
adopted by Sir George Yonge.
Yonge, who had become a
Lord of the Admiralty in 1766,
the year Egmont resigned after
a dispute with Chatham, was in
that post during the period of
the voyages of Wallis, Carteret
and Bougainville, at the time
Cook sailed, and until 1770,
when Cook was on the Austra-
lian coast.
During 1783-94, when the
scheme for British colonisation
of the east coast of Australia was
being hatched and proved
feasible, Yonge was Secretary
for War. He was afterwards
Governor of the Cape of Good
Hope, but not a very good one.
Yonge’s sketch of the advan-
tages of an Australian settle-
ment crystallised what had been
the trend of the official view in
defence circles during the pre-
vious 30 years.
He represented that the geo-
graphical situation of the new
country placed it within easy
communication with the Spanish
settlements in South America,
on the one hand, and with China,
the Spice Islands and the Cape
of Good Hope on the other.
Also that, should war break out
between England- and Spain,
English ships would, with Aus-
tralia in British hands, have the
immense advantage of a great
naval-station in the South Sea;
and, further, that the variety of
soil and climate within the terri-
tory would enable its colonist
to produce almost all the pro
ducts known to the commerce o
European nations, along wit
"the great probability of findin
in such an immense countr.
minerals of every kind.”
He held that the settlemen
of a "territory so happily situ
ated” would lead to a ver
extensive commerce, wou 1 c
greatly increase English shipping
and the British force of seamej
—a matter of great importanc
to England, a maritime nation
in time of war.
He suggested that flax migh
be cultivated in New Zealand
and render the Royal Navy
independent of Russia for its
supply of cordage and canvas
And, thinking ahead about the
country’s ability to absorb
population, he urged that its
colonisation would not tend to
depopulate the Mother Country
(which then held only 8,000,000
people), as settlers could be
drawn from China and the
Pacific. And, as well, displacec
loyalists of the American War
of Independence might be estab
fished there with greater success
than in any other place hitherto
pointed out to them.
He envisaged the transporta-
tion of felons to the new terri-
tory—as they had been sent to
Virginia earlier in droves—
cheaply and with less danger of
their returning to plague their
betters than if they were seni
to some nearer country. They
would provide a labor-force.
It is generally taught that
there was a great modification
of this scheme; that it died in
all its grandeur a version
apparently adopted because the
Government did not immedi-
ately begin to try to send droves
of free settlers to the new land,
and because it acted primarily
on what somebody has called a
“mean” concept which had
dwindled down to “a plan for
ridding the country of its surplus
criminals.”
Strategic Considerations
The fact that Yonge was asso-
ciated with the incipient plans
in some degree and in his posi-
tion at the War Office before and
while the settlement was being
established, together with the
expense incurred, the trouble the
Government took to ensure sur-
vival of the settlement after it
was created, and the very nature
of the first and subsequent
Governor’s commissions and
instructions, tend to negative
the conventional suppositions.
It is true that the plan was
publicly represented as one
“for effectually disposing of con-
victs and rendering their trans-
portation reciprocally beneficial
both to themselves and to the
State by the establishment of a
colony in New South Wales, a
country which for certain
reasons seemed suitable.”
But all the circumstances
make it improbable that even
in their moments of deepest
insularity of mind the British
Ministers felt that this was all. .
They certainly did not issue a
commission to the Governor in
terms similar to those issued to
Governors and Captains-General
in the Americas and covering an
area as large as India, plus the
adjacent islands (which later
Governors took to embrace New
Zealand and archipelagoes out
to Tahiti), merely for the sake
of dumping, 12,000 miles from
home, at great expense, convicts
who had become a nuisance.
The Governor was, in fact,
required to take oaths imposed
on other Governors in relation
to the laws controlling trade and
plantations; laws which were
intended for the development of
commerce and its retention in
the hands of British merchants.
The official secretiveness with
which the expedition was
arranged, the stress on its casual
purpose without any stress on its
destination, are facts which
seem to speak for themselves.
All that was said in the King’s
speech on January 23, 1787,
was:
A plan has been formed, by my
direction, for transporting the
number of convicts * in order to
remove the inconvenience which arose
from the crowded state of the jails
in different parts of the kingdom;
and you will, I doubt not, take such
further measures as may be neces-
sary for this purpose.
The scene of the experiment
was not specified. They made it
look as. unimportant as possible.
* v Why was the Government so
secretive and terse? It has been
surmised that it did not wish to
stir-up the East India Company
by raising suspicion of a rivalry
to its commercial monopoly of
the Far East so soon after the
passing of Pitt’s India Act of
1784, and the subsequent Act of
1786, which left the Company
its patronage and appointments,
but established the Board of
Control with two Cabinet Minis-
ters on it to censor and supervise
its policy and watch it from
inside its own organisation.
It is suggested that the Gov-
ernment might have wished to
avoid controversy about its trans-
portation - scheme with, and
criticism of it by, British humani-
tarians.
As for the first consideration,
it was quite possible that the
Government had some thoughts
about India in reference to the
new venture. Having just passed
an Act which declared conquest
and extension of dominion in
that country “repugnant to the
wish, honor and policy of this
nation,” it certainly might have
felt a little coy about entering
too publicly and definitely on
the colonisation of a pristine
country, of the internal popula-
tion of which it had no real know-
ledge, and in which it might
find itself caught by the opposi-
tion (Messrs. Fox and co.) doing
exactly what it had professed to
find repugnant and against its
hondr in India.
But there were also dther,
hidden, considerations. The
expeditions of Cook —three of
them —had not been made just
for fun. The fact that La
Perouse had been away in the
Pacific somewhere since 1785
must have had its effect on
internal policy. Then there was
the disturbed state of relations
with Russia (jealous of British
sea-power, and beginning to be
looked on as a definite threat to
India); also, there was the new
colonial and commercial policy
of France, with Austria and
Spain pottering along in her
rear. (The situation led eventu-
ally to a “bustle” with France
towards the end of 1787, when
large, fresh British forces were
recruited for use in India while
the First Fleet was nearing the
Australian coast.)
These circumstances give
ground for more than a suspi-
cion that there was a well-
hidden strategic objective behind
the Botany Bay scheme, about
which the Government was say-
ing as little as possible.
Further, Holland might at any
moment be involved in whatever
conflict took place in Europe,
and Batavia and other East
Indian ports gave the Nether-
lands an advantage of distance
and knowledge of the local seas
if the inspiration seized them to
annex New Holland (which from
its name was already inferen-
tially theirs). Naturally, this
was an aspect to which the
British Government would have
no inclination to call undue
attention.
Indeed, that Government
seems to have gone to extremes to
emphasise that its only objective
was to be found a convict-
settlement in the Antipodes.
George 111 was even pictured in
cartoons landing in Botany Bay,
carried ashore by convicts, and
flanked by North and Fox and
attended by Burke, with mitre
and episcopal staff, reading a
service from the “Newgate
Calendar.”
Botany Bay
What was the actual nature of
the colony when it was founded?
It was not a conquered colony.
It was acquired by peaceful
occupation of a terrain in which
there was no overall government
and no resistance. It was civil
in nature, operated by a naval
command. Its first free and
civil inhabitants were all officials,
even the single ecclesiastic. Its
laws were the laws of Eng-
land, modified to meet local
emergencies, as they normally
applied to the classes of persons
who comprised the inhabitants.
The source of its laws was the
English Common Law and the
Statutes of the English Parlia-
ment, save for such rights as
were inherent in the Crown and
delegatable to a Governor.
The Governor could (as was
settled many years afterwards)
perhaps impose port-dues and
duties on goods, these being
Royal duties, but other taxation
was the . prerogative of Parlia-
ment. He could reprieve from
the sentences of courts, save in
cases of murder or treason, in
which the death-penalty was
subject directly to the * Royal
mercy. In civil law, appeal to the
Privy Council was provided for.
There was a bench of justices
from the first.
His powers under his com-
mission appeared wider than
they were; many of them were
merely inferential powers which
he was not expected to exercise
unless he had specific instruc-
tions (as Governor Macquarie
found when he issued a charter
to a bank without first consult-
ing the Home Government) or
when specified emergencies of a
drastic kind should arise.
Any autocratic Governor who,
without specific instructions or
the need to meet emergency
conditions, had gone round
building fortresses, cities, towns
and doing all the other things his
commission apparently em-
powered him to do would soon
have found himself in hot wate
In practice, the rights of th
community were in two com
partments. There were those of
the free, civil and military, wh
showed all the disposition in
herent in Englishmen to criticis
Governors to their faces, t
resist anything they though
oppressive, and to stick up fo
their rights, separately anc
collectively.
John Macarthur, a youn
lieutenant, did not hesitate
cross swords with Phillip
neither did the Marines officers
Convicts were another matter
There was a close fine drawn
between them and the free, who
had the privileges of free men
and the protection (such as i
was) accorded by law to English
men.
In the early days of the colony
this difference was striking. Th
convict who criticised a Gover
nor or resisted authority or com
mitted a petty crime would fine
himself trussed-up in an instant
perhaps merely on an order, anc
flogged, sometimes to the bone
But even in the stressful days o '
Phillip, when the colony was on
the brink of starvation and ex
tinction, even convicts who hac
become free felt they coulc
assemble at the Governor’s gates
and demonstrate when they were
dissatisfied.
When, a few years later,
Governor Macquarie insistec
on magistrates showing leniency
in imposing flogging on
convicts convicted afresh locally
of petty crimes there was public
outcry even among emancipists.
But when the same Governor
dared to give a mild lashing to
three freed villains who had dis-
obeyed his order —and all of
whom had been convicts with
bad records —the loud protests
in the colony and in London
were not all the product of
malice. There was some genuine
indignation that a hair of the
head of a free man should be
touched.
When Bligh transgressed the
rights of individuals, pulling
down houses, using abusive
language, it wasn’t the rum-
traffickers who overthrew him.
It was public opinion, despite
legend to the contrary. Public
opinion was no more restrained
in dealing with him, in fact, than
it would have been in England.
And when the “Government”
which took over from him dis-
pleased it, public opinion reacted
again. In all this, the issue is not
whether it was actuated by virtu-
ous indignation, or self-interest,
or self-seeking, but whether its
consciousness of its British
heritage made it feel entitled to
resent what it held to be
unsatisfactory and to agitate to
gain its ends even in a com-
munity in which the presence of
large numbers of convicts
rendered government necessarily
subject to certain abnormal
restraints and restrictions.
The Rights of Free Men
The issues which brought
Macarthur’s quarrel with Bligh
to a head were all issues of
freedom. He claimed the right
to defend himself in the kind
of words that ordinarily may be
used in any British court at a
trial, and the right not to be
prosecuted afterwards for having


WILLIAM CHARLES WENTWORTH
Chief Architect of Responsible Government
“One of those bodies in our solar system that are seen to
throw into eclipse anybody of smaller dimensions coming
within range of their vast shadows.”—J. D. LANG.
used them against the Govern-
ment.
He claimed the right to resist
a command by a Government
when he thought the command
was not lawfully given.
He claimed the right to resist
arrest on a warrant not lawfully
issued and not served by a per-
son authorised according to law
by being sworn-in as a constable.
He claimed that a lease law-
fully granted, and the rights con-
ferred by it, could not be voided
save by due process of law.
And he claimed, above all,
that before he should be charged
before a court he should be told
in due time what the charges
against him were, and that he
should have due opportunity to
frame his defence and to defend
himself as an Englishman.
Leaving the character of the
man and his contentious nature
aside, all these claims were in
keeping with colonial principle,
though one might not
imagine so in reading the
farrago of distortion, half-truth
and invention which appears in
some historical works that pass
as authoritative.
A main fact worth con-
sideration is that at the time the
Bligh rebellion took place a new
stage had been reached in the
development of Australian
political feeling. Free settlers
had been sent out within a year
or so of the settlement’s founda-
tion. Now an accession of well-
educated and influential ones,
like Dr. Townson, LL.D., and
the two Blaxlands, had joined
the few humbler ones who had
come earlier.
No sooner had these later ones
come—-contemporaneously with
Bligh—than they set about prov-
ing to the Governor that they
were Englishmen, and entitled to
the privileges of their nationality
even in a colony which was
rigidly governed by a military*
type civil administration. And
they and the civil servants and
the military were all at one in
not fearing to resist the Gov-
ernment. It is striking that this
was so when the population was
altogether only about' 7000,
mostly convicts or of convict
origin.
When the settlers rebelled the
Home Government showed a dis-
position not to try their ring-
leader. He was even promoted
in the Army after the rebellion
and his return to England. He
had to almost force the Govern-
ment to court-martial him. And
when he was tried the sentence
on him was no more than that
normally passed on a subaltern
who had refused to fight because
somebody had splashed wine in
his face at a mess-dinner. He
was merely cashiered. The Gov-
ernment felt that it must do
something on a conviction on a
charge of mutiny.
' Moreover, the Home authori-
ties showed themselves prepared
to move with the times.
They sent out a new Governor
and a trained member of the
Bar as Judge Advocate. Hitherto,
one of the only two competent
lawyers in the colony had been
transported for blackmail, and
the other had been the leader of
a criminal gang in London, had
stood in the pillory for perjury,
and, tradition said, had once
sought to provide proof that
there was life in a dead gentle-
man whose hand was guided to
sign a will by putting a very
active fly in his mouth.
As soon as the reports of the
new Judge Advocate and the new
Governor were received the
Home Government reformed the
courts to give them a somewhat
more legalised aspect, since what-
ever the N.S.W. Charter said
about British laws, the courts
had had the rough-and-ready
nature of all bushwhacker insti-
tutions.
Indeed, the Government found
itself pressed so hard by the
new judges and their supporters
to follow British tradition more
closely that it had to recall the
new Supreme Court judge. But
it had introduced free solicitors ;
and it now sent, as Judge Advo-
cate, John Wylde (afterwards
Chief Justice of the Cape of
Good Hope, and one of the
founders of the South African
Constitution), who added a little
to the civil liberties of the sub-
ject and freedom of speech by
admitting that he had not acted
against the editor of the official
newspaper for contempt because
he conceded the editor’s right of
public criticism in a leading
article.
Here, again -in this period of
ferment, with exploration open-
ing-up the interior and settle-
ment following it across the Blue
Mountains the remarkable
thing is the sensitiveness of the
Government to the changes
which were taking place
in the colony, the prompt
readiness of the Home
authorities to make moves
which would gradually trans-
form the territory into a self-
governed community,
As early as 1812—before the
Blue Mountains had been
crossed and when the population,
outside the members of the 73rd
Regiment and the civil service,
was 90 per cent, convict or of
convict origin—we find a Par-
liamentary Select Committee
seriously discussing, but rejecting,
the idea of a N.S.W. Governor’s
Council and establishment of a
jury-system,
It may be noted—a fact
rarely pointed out—that, apart
from there having been a
magistracy from the beginning,
coroners’ juries had always sat
in the colony,
We find the question of
whether transportation should
continue being seriously debated
by Romilly and others in the
House of Commons in 1815. We
find Lord Bathurst at the same
time eagerly encouraging and
commanding the extension of
exploration ordering the
gathering of most precise infor-
mation about terrain, water,
resources, agricultural possibili-
ties and mineral indications, and
the preparation of a “circuiri-
stantial account of such articles,
if any, as might be advan-
tageously imported into Great
Britain, and those that would be
most valued by the natives in
exchange for them.”
Impact of War
His letter in which this
memorandum of instruction is
enclosed was written in April,
1816, almost exactly 10 months
after'Waterloo had wiped away
the last manifestations of world
war which civilisation was to
see for a century.
It is vital to look back and
study the world conditions under
which the colony had been
maintained till then.
It is often said that Australia
did not know war in its early
history. In actual fact, in its
cradle it was separated from the
Mother Country by a broad zone
of incessant war.
Only for a year or so after
the Peace of Amiens did this
condition not exist.
The very first succors to reach
the colony after its first settle-
ment in 1788—arriving in June,
1790—brought news of the
French Revolution. The main
batch of the New South Wales
Corps, due to leave in 1790, was
commandeered to serve as a
Marines-force in the Channel,
with Howe’s Fleet hastily
assembled against threatened
invasion of England.
The sneer that the officers and
men of the New South Wales
Corps were men without active
service, men who were not all
they should be because they had
elected to serve in an area where
there was no war, was a base
libel. Every one of their early
officers had enlisted for active
service. Their original com-
mander, Major Grose, was a
badly-wounded veteran of the
American War of Independence.
The first personnel of the main
body, outside those who came
in the Second Fleet as an
advance-guard, had, in effect, to
fight their way out.
Governor Hunter, that veteran
of the voyage of succor in the
Sirius (in which he had circum-
navigated the globe in the
Antarctic latitudes in order to
secure food for the starving
settlement' in 1788-89), was
appoited Governor early in 1794.
But he did not get away on his
voyage till 1795. He had delayed
to serve in Howe’s flagship, the
Queen Charlotte, and had been
off Ushant on the Glorious First
of June. 1
H.M.S. Reliance (Captain
Waterhouse, R.N.), which
brought the new Governor to
New South Wales, had been
in the Channel operations
also. The Reliance was to
bring from Norfolk Island, in
1796, a little boy, native of that
speck of land, whose name is
known to every Australian
schoolchild in relation to the
establishment of responsible
government: William Charles
Wentworth. And the same
vessel brought from the Cape
of Good Hope, in 1797, the first
Spanish sheep.
The establishment of the
sheep-industry at Camden Park
was achieved in the year in
which Trafalgar was fought:
only a few days before the battle
John Macarthur had returned
from the Nepean, where he and
Walter Davidson had been
camped on the site of their
prospective holding.
When he had arrived from
England in the previous June in
the Argo with his Spanish rams
from the Royal stud at Kew he
had brought news of the out-
break of war with Spain and had
carried-as did most ship’s
owners trading to Sydney Cove
-letters of marque as a
privateer against the French and
Spanish
The news of the Bligh rebel-
lion reached England at a
moment at which its interest
would be drowned in the fury
generated by the Cintra Conven-
tion, its debates lost in the hub-
bub as John Moore died and
Corunna fell.
Rehabilitation of the colony
under Macquarie paralleled a
series of grand historic victories.
Exploration advanced in tune
with Wellington. Johnston was
court-martialled, with his judges
each holding one ear cocked for
the battle-noises of the after-
maths of Albuera and Fuentes
d’Onoro
The explorers of 1813 marched
over the Blue Mountains while
a thousand veterans whose
names now stand out like stars'
in the firmament of early Aus-
tralian history were hardening
their feet and conditioning
their hearts for long years of
Antipodean pioneering as
Wellington shaped-up for the
crucial test of Vittoria and the
pursuit over the Pyrenees,
Macquarie fixed the site of
Bathurst, the first town west of
the Blue Mountains, when half
the events of the Hundred Days
were over and Napoleon nearing
his dpom.
It is astonishing that the little
settlement, tied to England by a
turbulent line of voyage five to
eight months’ long, ever attracted
notice in London. Yet at every
stage there is a quite astonishing
British reaction to its vicissitudes,
to its political climate. Its public
opinion, limited as it was, had a
remarkable effect—far more
than would have been expected,
Its petty complaints had an im-
pact which one would not, in
retrospect, expect them to have
had, even allowing that Botany
Bay was a sort of hobby with
such critics as Banks and Wilber-
force. And this in a season of
world war ; sometimes even
when invasion of England was
feared.
And now, in 1815, came peace,
and at once we find quickening
of interest and a new stage in
Constitutional and every other
kind of Australia’s development,
Early in 1817 Lord Bathurst,
the responsible Minister, and
British M.P.s, including such men
as Castlereagh and Brougham,
are found giving their time to
its affairs,
The basis of their interest is
not only the fact that the humane
policy of Macquarie, the
Governor, is ceasing to inspire
terror in the minds of the grow-
ing army of post-war “criminals,”
produced by the demobilisation
of large forces who for years
have been inured to loot. It is
not altogether animated by the
complaints of persons who are
horrified that, in a country where
convicts are still flogged in
dozens at the drop of a handker-
chief, the rights of free men have
been cut through with the lash.
British Ministers are influenced
by the voices of such men as
the young Wentworth, by the
conflict which has begun to rage
to decide whether Australia —
Macquarie has just now adopted
the name officially—shall be a
colony in which the main con-
sideration shall be the nurture
of the reformed convict and his
descendants as a race of small-
scale farmers, or whether it shall
be a land of great estates served
with great batches of strongly-
controlled convict-labor ; a State
much on the lines of the old
Virginia.
p eace Growth
. . , _ 101 _
At ~he, ,he en - d ,° f 1817
colony was 30 years
old-
penetrated at most 150 miles or
a - P°P u : l [ lon Tone”
land . 17,200-odd, included 1000-
° dd personnel, 170 m
,he c ‘ vll department and 2500
actual convicts, beside those who
dad been convicts and then
descendants,
Yet * was ahve Wlth P olltlcal
controversy,
Its l ud g es > meeting a chorus of
Protests, were taking steps
!° Protect it from the
imposition of ultra vires
taxes by the Governor, who
was unwit tingly usurping the tax-
ing-powers of Parliament. Young
Wentworth (he was 27 , studying
t° r . l7ie ® ar ,i n , , ! an< ‘ 1 r w . as
beginning to tight for a Legis-
*atJve y \ ~ . .
Lord Bathurst, the Minister,
was meditating that the tnal-
period of preparation was oyer
and a . new , stage in Australian
expansion had arrived,
wrote to Viscount Sid-
m°udl ’ Home Secretary, that
years experience of the
climate and fertility of e soil
ad or s ? u ? e tim ® P ast rendere
a permission to settle in
S. Wffies an object of anxious
solicitude to all who were
desir ? us °* |f a Y ing nati f
country and had capital to apply
t£ > Jj e improvemen of the land,
. The ff ee he con-
sidered had so increased and
Prosperity had proportionally so
( Continued on page 27)


Cut out stalling und
you cut down costs
ft- ■
!
w ©
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision,
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the
foil range of Mobiico JUNIOR Tree Fellers.
Name
Address
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH . . . .
Look at it ... a Saw with one single
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced the
clutch engages automatically. When the
throttle is closed the blade stops auto-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. It does not matter how
often you jam or stall your blade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £WB, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/-.
ALI ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX1244-5 - TEIEGRAMS. Mftanrn cvnucv
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM VIC - PHon!.' nfi 0 Vo S TJo
BRANCHES; BRISBANE. ADELAIOE, PERTH - - AGENTS; ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
ARTS
Circular Chart* for all typo*
of lrutrgmont*
to# clui ®< MacMoorf
o# Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specify
jaci mm omu vanXu
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
m
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Teranyan, winner of Tatter-
sail’s Flying Handicap at Rand-
wick with 7.13, has won/over the
distance of the rich Q.T.C
Stradbroke Handicap seven
furlongs—and he drops to 7.5 in
that event. This is only 51b.
above the limit, which gives him
a nice pull in the weights.
Teranyan is a young sprinter
with a fairly good record,, and
trainer Leo O’Sullivan is well
versed in what is required to win
a top-class handicap. He also
trains the well-performed Gay
Vista, but 9.3 seems plenty for
this one in the Stradbroke. Any-
way, Gay Vista hasn’t done much
since returning to the training-
tracks.
Fillies seldom win St. Legers.
In fact, they are rarely set the
task of trying to down the colts,
but occasionally a top-class
member of the sex lands the red
riband. There is no better three-
year-old filly now in action than
Evening Peal, who will tackle the
colts in the Q.T.C. St. Leger next
Saturday week. If she runs well,
especially should she win, she
will take her place in the Bris-
bane Cup field ; in the two-miler
she’s weighted at 7.10 (101 b.
above the limit).
At Rand wick last month
Evening Peal was successful at
H mile in her own class, and at
the same address last Saturday
she very easily won the James
Barnes Plate (H mile). Among
those that finished well behind
her was Caranna. However, he
was lumping 8.10 and drops to
7.11 in the Brisbane Cup, which
seems a light impost for a Derby
winner.
A stable in form is the one to
follow, and supporters of the
Canterbury team prepared by
Jack Denham have enjoyed a
successful innings over the past
couple of weeks —Denham has
led in no fewer than 13 winners
during that period. Latest was
Granita in Tattersall’s Welter,
for which he was supported from
5 to 1 to 5-to-2 favoritism.
Handy to the lead all the way,
Granita, ably handled by Doug
Weir, had an easy task. Granita
has won at four of his last six
starts. Denham has 22 horses in
work at Canterbury.
L’Aurea is one of the best-
looking fillies racing in the
Sydney area, and trainer Bill
Tarran was confident of her
winning Tattersall’s Juvenile
Stakes until the rain came after
acceptance-time. L’Aurea has
done best on firm going; even
so, she was beaten a short neck
only, after being well clear in
the straight. Her apprentice
jockey, W. Kenny, handled her
well, but the filly tired on the
dead track. A. Ward had to
ride Sail hard to get the verdict.
S.T.C. chairman Harry Tan-
cred and vice-chairman Bill
Longworth paid lOOOgns. for the
colt by Achilles from Quartilla
at the recent April yearling-sales
at Randwick. They must have
been pleased with Compilla’s win
in the Randwick Two-year-old
for colts and geldings, because
that youngster is a half-brother
to their latest purchase. Com-
pilla is by Comic Court, one of
the best horses bred in this
country, his wins, of course,
including the 1950 Melbourne
Cup with 9.5 in record time.
Comic Court has sired several
smart winners. There is plenty
of Compilla, and he should
develop into a sound staying
three-year-old. Quarlilla also
is bred to stay, as she is by Golc
Nib (imp.) from Chorine by
Actor (Fr.) from None So Gay
(imp.) by Friar Marcus.
Bookmakers were not alone
in thinking Woodland Stream
had lasted long enough to win
the Randwick Novice Handicap
and they demanded long odds
i'rom punters who also thought
Cudgelico had been defeated. As
much as 4 to 1 was bet against
Cudgelico, but the photo-finish
showed he had just got there.
The deceptive angle was made
more difficult by the use of the
false rail. Cudgelico is raced by
Mrs. P. J. Murray, wife of the
Randwick trainer.
Mentone trainer Charles Wil-
son supplied the placegetters in
the Third Laluma Handicap
(two - year - olds) at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, equalling
the trio-feat of Richard Bradfield
37 years ago, when his horses
Lucknow, Nightwatch and
Chrome were placed in the Caul-
field Cup. In the Valley event
Wales beat Charwood and
Within ; as Wales started equal-
favorite with Sir Chantry, the
stable picked the right one of its
trio. Wales is a gelding by
Targui (imp.), a winner in
France up to 11 furlongs. Both
Wales and Charwood are raced
by W. R. Kemball. -Wales, bred
at R. H. W. Holden’s Poukawa-
stud, New Zealand, is from Sea
Anemone (imp.), a mare by
Blue Peter from Royal Bouquet
by Royal Dancer.
In autumn, Victorian owners
once confined their better
steeplechasers to flat-racing to
avoid higher weights in the
National. But now costs of rac-
ing a horse are red-hot, and most
are out to win any race they can.
In this set-up, two G.N. pros-
pects have done the hat-trick.
Teedum has never looked or
“Playful things, porpoises."
raced better, but he must have
earned a ton of weight in. the
National, and the better prospect
may be Bold Flare, who has won
successively a jumpers’-flat and
’chases at Flemington and Caul-
field. He jumped just-on per-
fectly at Flemington ; at Caul-
field he put in one short, high
one, but there was a catlike
agility, reminiscent of Moss-
trooper, in his recovery. Last
year Bold Flare was beaten by
Blue Lagoon in the last stride of
the National. And he was then
a first-season ’chaser.
The placegetters in Moonee
Valley’s Melrose Steeple on
Saturday—Van Perri, Aussie
Bear and Red Ochre aren’t
National Steeple material, but
two behind them, Japaddy and
Cyrette, will be with them when
the Fitzroy Gardens trees are
bare. Japaddy is a genuine three-
miler still, despite his age, and
Cyrette, as he has this season,
usually shies away from his
fences in his first winter steeple-
chases.
New Zealand trainer John
Mitchell looked to have
tightened his grip on the Strad-
broke when his top-class per-
former King’s Fair won the
Flying Handicap at Eagle Farm
in fast time on Saturday. The
stable also won the following
event —the May Handi-
cap—with Cambridge, who’s well
fancied for the Brisbane Cup.
Spear Chief, successful in the
Brisbane Cup in 1938 and 1939,
wasn’t the only dual-winner of
that two-miler ;in earlier seasons
St. Valorey and Fitz Grafton also
had two wins. The Wash won
the Cup last year, defeating New
Zealanders Finito and Milwaukee
11, with favorite Talisman (Syd-
ney Cup winner) fourth. The
Wash, now back to best form,
could win his second Brisbane
Cup next Monday week.
Incidentally, winners of the
Brisbane Cup include a Carbine,
but he won in 1875, about 15
years before the other Carbine
entered Turf history.
+ +
In 1937, in torrential rain,
N.S.W. defeated South Africa, at
Rugby Union, 17-6. On Satur-
day, at the Sports Ground, the
first N.S.W. v. South Africa game
since then, N.S.W., with its
forwards more than holding their
own with the visiting pack,
winning the bigger share of the
ball, particularly from scrums,
held the Springboks to an 8-6
lead at half-time, and looked
to have a chance of repeating the
1937 result. It was exciting
football. After the interval —
the Springboks one man short
right through the half —there was
more grand football, but most
was by the visitors. Their backs
threw the ball about, and were
too pacy for the locals; 29-9.
Winger Tom van Vollenhoven,
very fast, got two fine tries;
Springbok skipper Basie Villiers
an expert goalkicker. First
Test, at Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday.
* * *
In the V.F.L. competition
Melbourne seems wellnigh invin-
cible, but it is becoming harder
to forecast results of games
between the next seven or eigh
teams. Collingwood, whipped
soundly by Carlton the previous
week, did likewise on Saturday
to Geelong, 10.7-2.14. Footscray
lost its place in “the four” anc
went down to eighth place by
going under to Hawthorn by
three points in a hectic game,
10.14-10.11 ; the Bulldogs kicked
two goals in “time-on” and
nearly pulled the game round.
South Melbourne not unex-
pectedly recorded its first win of
the season by scotching Essendon,
15.8-11.20. (South, at home, has
always been a danger to Essen-
don, having, for instance, won
in 1953 though Coleman booted
11 goals.) Carlton, using its sixth
full-forward this year, a different
one each game (Bob Crowe, the
sixth, got six goals), celebrated
the 100th Richmond-Carlton
game by squashing the Tigers,
15.17-9.14. Melbourne defeated
North 11.18-6.6, after being nine-
points behind at half-time, and
Fitzroy bowled over St. Kilda,
11.11-7.11.
After four rounds Port
Adelaide had easily defeated the
other teams of last year’s final
four (Norwood, Sturt and West
Torrens) and had also stoushed
North Adelaide, which on form
was thought to have a chance of
stopping the Magpies. Port
looks well in line for its third
successive premiership.
* * *
City (Sydney) Rugby League
team convincingly defeated
Country 32-17, six tries to three,
at Sydney Cricket Ground, and
played a man short most of the
way. The game produced some
moments of brilliance, but for
several reasons could hardly have
been satisfactory as a trial (as
it was intended to be) for selec-
tion of the State team to play
Queensland today (Wednesday).
* * »
Australia v. Surrey started a
general thumbing of the record-
books. Laker, 10-88, was the
first bowler since Barratt for the
Players in 1878, also at The
Oval, to take the whole 10
Australian wickets in a game in
England, while Surrey’s win was
the first by a county over an
Australian team since Hamp-
shire’s in 1912. Surrey, of
course, is always a formid-
able proposition; it’s led by a
shrewd and determined skipper,
Surridge, has two of the best
spin-bowlers in the world, Laker
and Lock, capable batsmen and,
not least, a couple of the world's
best close-in fieldsmen, Lock
and Surridge himself. Surridge
clearly outgeneralled Johnson —
who, if he couldn’t be blamed
for the batting failures, was
wrong in carrying on too long
his own attempt to “Laker”
Surrey and in his refusal to use
LinSwall and Crawford on any
part of the second day.


See. it at
mem
l !&
DANGAR. GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Sn
Sr
■
HOLDEN UTILITY TOPS AUSTRALIAN SALES BECAUSE
Holden gives you
the best combination of
power, economy, value
Owners from all over Australia have
reported that Holden Utility gives you the
ideal combination of 6 cylinder power with
30 miles to the gallon economy and excep-
tional dependability. Proof of Holden’s
better value is the fact that during 1955
official Holden Utility registrations were
four times those of the next most popular
model.
How well Holden fulfils all claims made
for it is shown by this letter from Mr. C. W.
Knott of Haber field, N.S.W. He writes:
“I purchased a Holden Utility ... in
February 1952 . . . My occupation is a
Master Butcher. In the four years I have
had this vehicle ADN767, it has been used
for carting meat, delivering orders, and
buying at country centres.
“The first two years it was used on
country roads from Wagga, to such
adjacent towns as Albury, Junee, Tumut,
Leeton, Griffith . . . this vehicle has done
work on all types of roads, country and
city. At present I have 39,000 miles on my
speedo, and have never had the head off,
not even to adjust tappets, the only replace-
ment being one set of spark plugs. I
consider this a mighty effort, and thought
it my duty to pass on such information.”
There’s no doubt that you get the best
combination of power, economy, depend-
ability and value in Holden Utilities. Let
your Holden dealer prove it on an actual
demonstration. In view of the increasing
demand for Holden, may we suggest that
you see him as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST P&ICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
Convenient hire purchase arrangements available through GMAC— General Motors own hire
purchase company. ‘Air Chief ’ is the only Car Radio approved by GMH engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
advanced, that hopes might
reasonably be entertained of the
colony becoming, perhaps at no
distant period, a. valuable posses-
sion of the Crown.
Bathurst had something to say
also of the political progress. The
settlers felt a repugnance now,
he thdught, to the enforcement
of regulations which necessarily
partook of the nature of rules
governing a penitentiary, and
which interfered materially with
the exercise of those rights which
they had enjoyed in the United
Kingdom, and to which, as
British subjects, they considered
themselves entitled in every part
of the King’s dominions. So he
proposed the appointment of a
Commission of Inquiry.
Before the commissioner, J. T.
Bigge, reached Sydney (in 1819)
the Government had abundant
further evidence of the local
pressure in the new, .sparsely-
populated community.
Young Wentworth had pub-
lished his book demanding
responsible government. The
combined forces of exclusive
and emancipist had sent a blast,
per the medium of a local delega-
tion—two former convicts —call-
ing for the abandonment
of import-taxes on wool
and other products, repeat-
ing the expressions of faith
in the enormous future of the
continent which every
citizen’s address to the Governor
had been impregnated since 1810
and, spasmodically, even earlier.
They “the free settlers,
merchants, land- and house-
holders”—called for the estab-
lishment in the colony of civil
law, of “that great and valued
inheritance of our ancestors,
trial by jury,” hoping that “we
Englishmen, the sons of
Englishmen, with all the habits
and feelings of Englishmen, will
not be deemed unworthy of that
great blessing. .. .already avail-
able to the colored native of
India, the Hottentot of South
Africa and the negro slave of the
West Indian possessions... .and
suffered to remain the solitary
exception within the wide range
of British rule and dominion to
the enjoyment of that great safe-
guard of British rights and
British subjects.”
Bigge’s inquiries and findings
are naturally subject to debate.
He was caught between the fires
of Macquarie’s humanitarians
and of Macarthur’s capitalist
developers. That his mind was
probably made up before he
began his exhaustive inquisition,
which has provided us with a
minutely detailed picture of the
age, does not matter. It is easy
to let sympathy and sentiment
cloud the issue and weigh down
the scales of right and wrong
on the side of Macquarie, with
his gospel of redemption and
humanity, The hard political
and economic fact is that, if he
had won, the progress of the
country might have been materi-
ally retarded.
Bigge Report Results
The result of Bigge’s report to
Parliament (1823) was revolu-
tionary. It resulted in the
Government adopting a settle-
ment-policy which opened the
way for large capitalists to invest
in N. S. Wales and build the
wool-industry.
It opened the way to the squat-
ting system ; to a loose system
of occupation and usage of land
on licence.
The Government provided
—-under a rigid discipline, which
it thought vitally necessary in
the light of the nature of an
increasingly criminal type of
convict —abundant cheap labor
for the development of the wool-
industry: Bigge had, in effect,
reported this to be the great
hope of the new colony ; a busi-
ness which could be developed
rapidly, and which would provide
a staple of commerce and a
rapid expansion of settlement.
The aftermath of his sweep-
ing conclusions brought the
great Australian Agricultural
Company immediately into
existence, to pioneer large-
scale pastoral enterprise
and Newcastle coal. But it pro-
vided more than that. It pro-
vided the first embryo of a legis-
lature. It provided, in 1823-4, a
system of civil law, abolishing the
office of Judge Advocate, as it
applied to the civilian system,
and replacing this with a Chief
Justice and Civil Judges, who
were in themselves the generators
of the democratic advancement
of the colony’s institutions.
It provided a civilian jury-
system in civil actions where the
parties agreed; one that was
continued in two-year periods of
probation and reformed pro-
gressively until it assumed the
shape normal under British law.
It reorganised the criminal-
court system in such a way that
the court was fully controlled by
the sitting judge. Seven military
officers formed a jury (under the
older regime they had been
judges), and were subject to all
the controls and directions which
a judge may impose on a jury.
The Home Government was
not opposed to establishing the
jury-system. In the years which
followed, and in which agitation
was persistent and continuous,
it, however, made clear that it was
not ready to grant that system
permanently until it felt assured
that sufficient panels of suitable
men could be listed to make the
system work efficiently.
The Home Government had
to be convinced of the prudence
of allowing emancipists to sit on
criminal and other juries. Bigge
—an experienced judge who had
been Chief Justice of Trinidad,
where, however, standards in
such matters were not high—
could only put down the names
of a few persons whom he
thought qualified for jury-
service.
Press Becomes Free
Still, the Act of 1823 had
brought great and immediate
advances, swiftly carried out.
The new Chief Justice was barely
in the colony before freedom of
the press brought into existence
a flood of forward-looking, out-
spoken newspapers whose editors
feared no one.
It is often said that Wentworth
won freedom of the press. It
would be truer to. say that
freedom won itself. Wentworth
and his partner, Dr. Wardell,
just issued a paper of the type
to which London was accus-
tomed virile, critical, some-
times abusive, an engine of
agitation.
Governor Brisbane merely
reported that “these gentlemen
never solicited my permission to
publish their paper, and, as the
opinion of the law-officers of
the Crown coincided with my
own that there existed no power
to interpose to prevent it without
going to Council, I considered
it most expedient to try the
experiment of the full latitude of
the freedom of the press, and,
hi order to enable your Lordship
to judge how far this newspaper
is conducted with moderation, I
have ordered a copy to be regu-
iarly transmitted to you.”
He felt that the “Gazette,”
which had been the official paper
since it was founded by Gover-
nor King in 1803, should have
similar privileges
He had his own opinions, but
he did not interfere; and, though
Governor Darling did when
stung, Darling did not get very
far, and he received very little
oT7vAr,otu-,r frrrrv. th*. u nm i rjnv
sympathy from the Home Gov-
er pvpn 'narlimr wa<; not nre
Even Darling was not pre-
pared to interfere with ordinary
rmimteofTe CoS'scon
LmH Ve £
found. Yet he—presented by
some historians as a stiff and
sens?hle T ° r! 'ihoth
hnrntsld N c o ofT
harassed, son of an N.C.O. of the
45th Regiment of the Line —
soon began to feel the political
atmosphere galling. Like most
SneSc°e £ of e bemc CTiUAedbv
experience of being criticised by
civilians and was apt to react
and" the "govemmen"
however much he was, willing to
tolerate u when leveiled at others.
When Darhng arrived in New
South Wales at the end of 18„5
the Home Government had just
decided to separate Van
Diemen s Land from the rest of
the colony. Australian settle-
ment was now 37 years old. The
territory was still four to five
months’ voyage from, the
Mother Country. The popula-
tion was 33,675. The local
revenue was £71,682, and the
expenditure £93,000.
Yet (here was a free press,
There was a staple industry-
wool-of which the fu lire was
assured. There was at least one
company Australian Agncul-
tural Co.—just establishing itself
with a grant of a million acres
of land. There was one bank
established (it hoped) and
another in process of formation.
The colony owned a sub-
stantial locally-built shipping.
There was a virile agitation for
trial by jury with a universal
panel of free men and for a
Legislative Assembly and “taxa-
tion by representation.” Freedom
of speech and of agitation in
public meeting was about to
become a permanent reality.
Council Evolution
In Darling’s first month we
see another legislative advance.
Hitherto the temporary,
makeshift Legislative Council,
appointed at once after
the passing of the 1823
Act, has consisted entirely of
officials. One of Darling’s first
acts is to put into force the
warrant that appoints three pri-
vate citizens to the Council—
John Macarthur, founder of
commerce, pioneer of the wool-
industry ; Robert Campbell, the
colony’s first free great trading-
merchant, who had become the
pioneer of Canberra two years
before ; Charles Throsby, whose
explorations led white men’s feet
for the first time to the Federal
Capital Territory region, in
1820, and who had superintended
the building #f the road south-
ward over the Cookbundoon
Ranges to the Goulburn Plains.
They have very little power
and influence, but they have
some —and they use it.
In 1829 the Council is again
expanded: more unofficial
names are added to its roll.
Move three years onwards.
Darling has gone, his departure
lighted by the bonfires of Vau-
cluse and made noisy by the
raucous balladry of Wentworth’s
irreverent followers. Governor
Sir Richard Bourke has come.
The population is still only
about 50,000, the exports worth
less than £320,000 a year, the
colonial revenue under £130,000
a year. But the immigrants are
pouring in—6ooo-odd free men
and women in the four years
after 1829. The Council has
assumed a striking likeness to a
miniature Parliament in its
formalities if not in its powers,
The Governor’s little group
of assistants has taken on the
embryo shape of a civil service,
The Council considers Esti-
mates and passes them in the
familiar Parliamentary manner.
It has a committee of ways and
“ Appropria-
/of, Act for the first time m
1832, makes provision for edu-
cationj for £ oads for lands _
d i S p osa i f or a host 0 f matters.
r,n March 7 1837 the Govern
t Gazette comes into S
The Council debates a
Budget and Estimates-of sorts,
p.,ui ic nr>ininn k - t ;ii i;wiv—
rampant ft might be still
more s 0 P we re it not that the
Governor, Sir Richard Bourke,
• • dkcr _. f . aTul Pnnv *
b i man ’tL,, drst Governor who
■ “ ’ as f we fl as a so£
' d administrator and the ft?!
Irishman to hold the offira.
The Patrioti _ A „ nci Atinn k
E xhe ,• ,• down " itb
the |amb in poli ,i C s-Wentworth
h ‘ S
Timp ' arp nftt alwavc
d t 0 the end
Bourke , s mle in lg3B But
p ro g ress k steady. Imports
have reached the million . a^d . a .
ter mark . population is a
whole 85,267-it had been under
40 000 17 years be f o re-and
i and . cultivation is now 92 ,125
acres
shocking that such a miphtv
communit ® should not have
“iSS e uovernmemf
S “ble r™l Encineer
Gi ‘£ whan h I SucceedsTltourke
in F f B3B has some ideas about
So have other , The
agita ,ion becomes more vocifer-
ous Two ars „ Q
vic(oria had bee „ greeted 7 Port
6
( Continued on page 30)


4
•~ry
6 V
9\o
4
4
<r 0
SI *
9 \9
a i 0
0Q
jir&ytrM W
NOIIVIAV
SERVICE
x%
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited > London
4/55
OPES
E
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6§ x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 368 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World .
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EXIT COMINFORM
r T'HE dissolution of the Soviet
Cominform, comments “New
York Times,” was little more
than a formality. Its stature
among Communists had been
falling and, elsewhere, it hardly
fitted with the current Soviet
attitude of international ami-
ability—during the Russians’
visit to India they were frequently
asked why, if the U.S.S.R.
desired peaceful coexistence, it
didn’t abolish the Cominform.
While that organisation may
have been abolished, however,
its purpose remains and, “N. Y.
Times” adds, the communique
which announced the dissolution
predicted that Communists “will
find new useful methods of
establishing links with each
other.’’
“But—perhaps most signifi-
cant —the communique, in effect,
orders Communist parties to go
in for broad united-front tactics
‘with parties with tendencies
towards Socialism, and also with
other organisations which aim
to consolidate peace and democ-
racy.’
“This is far different from the
original Cominform pronounce-
ment of 1947, which heaped
anathema upon non-Com-
munisls, particularly West Euro-
pean Socialist, leaders. Moscow’s
goal remains the same, but now
its tactics are subtler and more
flexible.”
On the same theme, London
“Time and Tide” points out
that, “as in the case of the
Comintern, which -was succeeded
by the Cominform, so today the
already-moribund Cominform
has been succeeded by a more
useful organisation, ‘The Com-
monwealth of Socialist States,’
led by the U.S.S.R. and China.
“The cohesion of the new
‘Commonwealth,’ which consists
of all the satellite-countries in
Europe and Asia, is assured by :
“Ideological unity, guaranteed
by Communist-party leadership ;
“Similarity of regimes
(Governments, party organisa-
tion, social and political pacts);
“Unity of foreign policy dic-
tated by Moscow;
“Uniformity of the structure
of the armed forces ;
“Streamlined economic plans
—all running parallel since
January, 1956 ;
“Foreign tradf* conducted in
common ;
“Unified money-system based
on the golden rouble. (At the
Leipzig Fair this year all deals
were calculated in roubles, even
those between East Germany and
Argentina.)
“One of the main aims of the
Commonwealth of Socialist
States is to bring ‘dependent and
colonial countries’ into a neutral
zone round the ‘Commonwealth.’ t
These countries will be granted
any help they require—technical,
financial or military—in return
for a guarantee of neutrality.
“For propaganda purposes,
any country the U.S.S.R. con-
siders she has drawn out of the
orbit of imperialism and
neutralised will be included in
Russia’s ‘Zone of Peace.’
“At present, according to the
Communist press, the world
‘Zone of Peace’ includes the
U.S.S.R. and the East European
satellites, China, Mongolia,
North Korea and Viet Minh. It
also includes Finland, Egypt, the
Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Syria,
Afghanistan, India, Burma and
Indonesia.
“It is to be extended wherever
possible in the future to Iceland,
Cyprus, Aden, Malaya, Singa-
pore, Laos, Cambodia and
Okinawa. This latest Soviet
action is designed to encourage
neutralism all over the world.”
Russia and the Arabs
The reappraisal of Stalin is
not the only switch in Soviet
/thinking which has confused
its followers. The Russian
Foreign Ministry’s support of
the peacemaking efforts of the
United Nations between Israel
and Egypt caused some long
thoughts in the Middle East,
where, London “Economist”
notes, for the first time an Arab
newspaper called the present
Russian drive in that area
“imperialism”:
“That rude word had hitherto
been reserved for the West, and
the reason for extending it to the
Eastern bloc was the Soviet state-
ment on the Middle East, particu-
larly the passage in which Russia
St. Louis (U.S.A.) "Globe-Democrat"
TICK TOCK
confirmed its recognition of
Israel and offered to work for
peace through the United
Nations.
“This stroke of policy, the
Arabs reason, reveals a Soviet
plan to curry favor with the
West so as to win an assured
seat in the councils of the great
Powers, first in regard to Pales-
tine, and later in respect of topics
such as the Suez Canal and the
production of oil.
“ ‘Moscow has used some of
our countries to- score a victory
over the West,’ writes the
Lebanese ‘an Nahar,' ‘while we,
or at least some of us, thought
we were using Moscow to score
a victory over the West.’
“The qualifying phrase is im-
portant. There are plenty of
sophisticated Arabs and Egyp-
tians who never thought that
the Communist arms-deals were
transacted out of fellow-feeling
for the Arab cause against
Israel. But for the naive, and
particularly for those Russo-
philes and fellow-travellers at
present prominent in Egyptian
and Syrian politics, the setback
has been great because the hopes
were high.”
Britain's Atomic Power
Surveying the country’s plans
and prospects for the use of
atomic power in industry,
London “Financial Times”
points out that Britain, first
country to “split the atom” (in
1919), is still in the vanguard
of atomic-energy progress.
The U.K.’s atomic power-
station, due to start operating
under trial conditions within a
few weeks, will be the first com-
pleted full-scale installation of
its kind in the world and is,the
beginning of the largest pro-
gramme for the use of atomic
power during the next decade.
There is, however, the “Finan-
cial Times” adds, a background
of “critical problems” to this
scene, and Government decisions
on them in the next few months
“will do much to determine not
only the future of Britain’s stake
in the atomic age, but also the
ability of the U.K. to sustain a
growing rate of industrial pro-
duction” :
“Only atomic energy, whether
it be produced by fission (or
breaking-down of uranium or
plutonium atomic fuels) or by
fusion (or joining-together of
hydrogen, or other light atoms),
can fill the gap in power-supplies
with which the world must soon
be faced.
“As industrialisation spreads
into areas which have hitherto
been undeveloped industrially
there will be demands for an
increasing amount of power.
Simultaneously, the demand for
conventional fuels by Western
industry and Russia will continue
to increase, while the supply of
such fuels is already near its
limit.
“Oil and coal, moreover, will
be increasingly required as the
raw material for the chemical
and plastic industries. As these
events take place the importance
of atomic power will grow.”
Britain’s main dilemma in this
situation is that, while being one
of the three leading countries in
the world in the development of
atomic energy (the U.S. and
Russia are the other two), it
needs atomic energy as a source
of power more urgently than
almost any other country.
This poses the question of
“what priority should she give to
the export of reactors and equip-
ment, and what priority to the
use of atomic energy to satisfy
her own demands for energy?
“The solution to this problem
must be set against the back-
ground of international progress
in atomic energy. Although only
14 years have passed since the
first nuclear - reactor furnace
capable of burning atomic fuel
was built and operated in
Chicago, atomic energy can claim


Sea itat
mens
DANGAR. GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
An
Assured Income
at a
Guaranteed Rate
The Commonwealth assures
the investment income of
every holder of Common-
wealth Securities by uncon-
ditionally guaranteeing that
interest at a fixed, unvarying
rate will be paid regularly
for the period of the
investment. The income
position of Loan investors is
exactly defined under all
circumstances.
Investors in Commonwealth
Loans receive the uncon-
ditional guarantee of the
Commonwealth of Australia
that the money they invest
will be repaid to them in
full at face value on the day
their securities mature and
become due for redemption.
OF
AT
INCOME TAX
REBATE
INCREASES
NET YIELD
An Income Tax Rebate of
2/- in the £1 of Common-
wealth Loan Interest
included in taxable income
increases net income, after
taxation, from Common-
wealth Securities. (Of
course, the rebate cannot
exceed the amount of tax
otherwise payable.)
NEW TERMS OF ISSUE-
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follows:
1. 7-YEAR SECURITIES BEARING INTEREST AT
PER ANNUM ISSUED AT £99/10/- PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON APRIL 15, 1963
2. SHORT-TERM SECURITIES BEARING INTEREST AT
PER ANNUM ISSUED AT £99/10/- PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON APRIL IS,
Minimum Subscription is £lO
for the 7-year term and £lOO
for the short-term securities.
Applications may be lodged
with any bank, savings bani
or stockbroker.
INVEST IN THE
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN cw
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
255L15.33E
already to have achieved the
status of a world-industry.
“It is, moreover, unique in that
it is not only an infant (although
already important) industry with
an assured world-wide growth
but also an industry in which
international leadership can carry
material industrial prestige and
also political influence.
“Obviously Britain must give
priority to the fulfilment of her
home-demands for industrial
power. Yet two points are
becoming increasingly obvious.
Firstly, both Russia and the U.S.
are using the bait of the supply
of atomic fuels and equipment,
including research-reactors and
atomic power-stations, as a
means to gaining both a political
and industrial entree into those
countries which are technologi-
cally less well-equipped.
“Secondly, those U.S. com-
panies which have helped to
bring about the gigantic Ameri-
can achievements in the military
applications of atomic energy are
determined to gain as large a
share as they can seize of the
world market for reactors both
for research purposes and power-
production.
“Moreover, the U.S. and
Russia are not the only countries
competing with Britain for
world-leadership in the peaceful
application of atomic energy.
France, which between 1959 and
1965 plans to build a new atomic
power-station every 18 months,
and Norway and Holland, which
have a joint atomic-energy pro-
ject which includes plans to build
atomic power-units for ship-pro-
pulsion as well as land-based
power-stations, are perhaps less
powerful rivals for the growing
trade in atomic equipment of
all kinds, but their efforts are
by no means insignificant.
“Japan, Germany and, in some
more specialised fields, Switzer-
land and Czechoslovakia, and
maybe 'Poland, may also in the
not-far-distant future prove com-
petitors of note. The formation
of Euratom also, welcome
though such international co-
operation may be from other
more idealistic viewpoints, would
lead to the creation of an even
more serious competitor to the
U.K. in the field of international
atomic trade.
“Politically, therefore, Britain
must export those atomic wares
that today she alone in many
cases can make. She must do this
both to ensure the maintenance
of her international prestige and,
more important, in order to
retain the necessary openings for
her normal international trade.”
To meet this challenge, the
“Financial Times” concludes,
“the U.K. has a rapidly develop-
ing atomic-energy industry” to
which “no less than 250 com-
panies are contributing con-
siderable quantities of both
money and skill to further its
development” :
“On them, it should be remem-
bered, as well as on the [U.K.]
Atomic Energy Authority, rests
the task of ensuring that Britain
remains in the vanguard of this
field of technological progress
and is able to play her proper
part in world affairs.”
U.S. Foreign Aid
If ever the Seven Wonders of
the post-war world are listed they
should include the depth of
Uncle Sam’s pocket in the matter
of foreign aid, yet it is an odd,
if natural, result that, particu-
larly in Asia, he often receives
more criticism than gratitude for
his giving.
If this criticism is only to be
expected, it is certainly also to
be expected that some U.S.
writers should take a sharp view
of it and be moved to ask just
what Uncle Sam is getting for his
money.
David Lawrence, editor of
“U.S. News and World Report,”
comments, for example, that
“every now and then a curious
sort of propaganda criticising
American foreign policy comes
back from abroad in the form of
anonymous interviews, impres-
sions, suggestions and findings
derived in good faith from
persons who profess to be think-
ing only of the good of the
United States.
“The substance of it all is a
complaint that America isn’t
spending enough abroad in
economic aid. It is apparent that
the persons who feed such views
to American newspapermen are
absorbing the ideas of foreign
officials who realise that the
‘gravy-train’ is running-down
and needs to be greased-up again.
“The propaganda is too palp-
able to be deceiving. It starts out
usually with the criticism that
America is putting too much
emphasis on ‘military alliances,’
that America is attaching strings
to its grants of aid, and that
America is trying somehow to
destroy or impair the hard-won
independence of the newly-
created States—now known as
‘uncommitted’ and ‘neutralist.’
“On top of this, is the curious
allegation that Americans are
talking too much about war and
too little about peace, and that
our (America’s) foreign policies
are ‘too rigid’ or ‘too inflexible.’
“Boiled-down to hard realism,
it means that Uncle Sam’s
pocketbook has become too
inelastic and rigid. They are
beginning abroad to suspect that
there will be difficulty this time
in getting billions out of the
U.S.
“The unnamed spokesmen in
Asia hint that we should scrap
our South-East Asia treaties,
discard the 1,000,000 troops on
our side in Formosa and in South
Korea, and recognise Red China.
What a military coup for the
Communists that would be!
“We are reminded in these
new surveys that Asians have
lived in poverty for a long time
and have been exploited by Euro-
peans. We are warned that, while
Asian peoples like help, they are
very ‘proud’ and don’t want any
conditions attached to gifts.
“Somehow, it is asserted,
Russia does the thing better—she
gives no gifts, she just partici-
pates in ‘trade arrangements.’ But
she does manage to exchange her
roubles for concrete things.
“The first ‘condition’ that
Russia makes usually is that she
gets something worth while in
return. But, ah, America, she
must not think of such things
—America must give away her
money quietly, anonymously, and
ask no questions. As for Mr.
Dulles, he is referred to in the
surveys as a bad Secretary of
State—probably because he’s a
good American.
“It is easy to read between the
lines of what these supposedly
informed observers say—there’s
nothing wrong with the Ameri-
can policies abroad which a few
billions of financial aid wouldn’t
cure. If only there were more
Marshall Plans, more economic
agencies, more give-aways,
everything would be rosy!
“If underdeveloped countries
are so blinded by ‘pride’ that
they don’t know the difference
between Communist tyranny and
American generosity, it’s time to
stop injuring their ‘pride’ any
longer with gifts of American
dollars.
“if the Communist menace is,
after all, a myth, then let the
countries which feel that way
pr ° teCt themselves as best the y
ca "\ . , r
‘America should continue, of
course, to help faithful and
appreciative allies in Europe and
Asia. .TTrpre is, however, no
obligation which requires the tax-
pa yers of the United States to
become paternalistic guardians
of the ‘neutralist’ world. If there
j s no military reason for
American aid to certain countries
who now scorn it, then America’s
billions might better be expended
w i t hin this country for more
schools, for aid to farmers, for
re h e f of the taxpayers’ burdens.”
Variotls Voices
Thomas Murray (U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission): “I am
altogether opposed to any school
G f thought that would move on
towards weapon? of ever-increas-
-ng magnitude while at the same
time disclaiming the intention of
using them. Under the stress of
a threat to its survival the nation
wiU use any weapon ] t has in
band »
'
Ceylon’s new Prime Minister,
c w p n Randaranaike ■ “The
j * Bear is a bear and not
f d l a mh ’’
a mdd lltlle lam *
JT c . „ ,
„ , °
erbert Brownell: Recently the
Communist leaders have under-
taken a campaign to persuade us
that they will renounce open
violence in certain situations and
w jU bve ,n peaceful coexistence
with the free world. They have
not, however, made any promise
to abandon their efforts to over-
throw free Governments by sub-
version, infiltration and espion-
age. A promise to abandon any
of the past criminal practices of
Communism will be received
with interest and hope. We must
remember, however, that the
choice of weapon is always one
of expediency, and we must be
prepared against the possibility
that tomorrow the Soviet leaders
ma y find lt more expedient to go
back to the use of violence and
war.”
President Eisenhower, on the
new Soviet line: “When a foreign
po ij C y j s winning you do not
change. You change policies
on i y w h en you think a great
change is necessary. Therefore I
think we can take some comfort.”


fkiiUi in the
\
After the rains have come and gone, leaving
the grass in shoot, and waters restored, the cattle
move down from the Northern Territory and
Queensland.
On they stage, in seasonal supplement to the
market; one stream of the 11,000,000 beef stock
that Australia depastures.
We need them all—and more—for we’re a race
of meat-eaters. Of the 1,225,000 tons of meat of
all kinds produced in this country in 1954-55 —
and it was the highest production ever—we
ourselves ate 815,000 tons, or 2011 b. per head of
population. Our beef consumption was 1151 b. per
head.
f
Now Australia’s population is growing. If we
are to go on feeding ourselves, and having a surplus
for the exports that buy us our general living
standards, we’ve to increase the cattle numbers and
raise the production of beef.
How can we do.it? The developmental factors
have been stated often and are well understood:
water, transport, breeding, pastures, and so on.
They are all highly important and necessary.
But I believe the time has come for a bold
and imaginative approach, by Governments, and
producers, to the expansion of our cattle industry.
The possibilities of inland killing and air transport
of beef have been proved at Glenroy station, in
the Kimberleys. “Air beef,” if expanded, could
speed production and give cattle a first place among
the food-export industries of Australia.
The elements are there to make it so. Our
meat is being sold on a wider market abroad. The
long-term agreement with Britain now permits the
sending of 15,000 tons a year to the free market. It
is our business to supply that market, particularly
to Asia and the East.
There can be no question about the future
for beef as an international commodity when the
world’s population is increasing at the rate of 22
million a year—2soo an hour!
7
DO YOU SUFFER DAILY WITH
STRESS DYSPEPSIA
Modern high-pressure living brings with it ailments that are
themselves modern, such as stress dyspepsia. Anxiety over
business, crowds, noise, hurried meals, etc., gives nse *o
sleeplessness, gastric disturbances, stomach ulcers, indigestion.
Modern medical men recognise these ailments as symptoms ox
a condition . . . the all-too-common condition of stress dyspepsia.
You could take a holiday,
get away from it all . . . but
can you? Let’s face it then—
the stresses of modern high-
pressure life are here to stay.
If you’re going to stay along
with them you’ve got to learn
to live with . . . stress
dyspepsia'.
STRICT DIETING HELPS
By avoiding irritant foods
the condition can often, to
some extent, be alleviated.
Modern medicine, however,
challenges the permanency of
dieting’s effect; says that food
itself causes much less gastric
irritation than do the every-
day stresses of life. In other
words, stress dyspepsia!
MODERN SCIENCE HAS
PROVIDED A DUAL ANSWER
No “magic formula,” Dual-
Active tablets are simply a
logical development, reacting
in two ways ... (1) as a
digestive aid to soothe the
stomach and act as a barrier
against excess acidity ... (2)
as a safe, non-habit-forming
sedative to ease ragged nerves,
break the stress-acid cycle.
Dual-Active tablets give LAST-
ING relief and are easy to
carry in pocket or handbag.
Write NOW.
A SAFE, SIMPLE TREATMENT
Each package contains both
acid-neutraliser (white) and
sedative (pink) tablets, to be
taken according to clearly set
out instructions. Dual-Active
tablets are NOT just another
antacid; they are a complete
medically-approved TREAT-
MENT for stress dyspepsia,
recognisedly a physical condi-
tion and which can be treated.
Send to-day.
SEND 20/- FOR FULL COURSE
OR WRITE FOR FREE LEAFLET
A full fortnight's course of
Dual-Active tablets breaks the
vicious stress-cycle, gives you
new peace, stability, freedom
to eat what you like . . . and
to sleep. Send name and
address with 20/- to-day to
Chas. Markell Co., or send for
full FREE details of this
modern scientific method of
overcoming stress dyspepsia.
CHARLES MARKELL
COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Reg'd Wholesale Druggists, Est.
60 years. (Refer "Druggists,
131/5B Clarence St., Sydney.
Wholesale, 11 Pink Pages.)
Phillip has become a district,
Melbourne is two years’ old
officially, there is a Board of
Education. The country is even
thinking of a national debt—
£ 160,000-worth of debentures
secured against Crown Lands to
finance more immigration.
Transportation ceased in 1840.
In 1842-3 comes another Con-
stitutional advance. This is the
most important of all so far. The
Legislative Council is reformed
—nay, the existing Council is
given power to do some of the
reforming itself. The new body
consists of 36 members—six
officials, six non - official
nominees of Government and 24
members elected on a property-
franchise—£2o rental or £2OO
freehold. Candidates for elec-
tion to the Council must have a
£2OOO property qualification.
Their powers in finance and
in relation to land and Customs
are very restricted.
The bill, which is to call elec-
torates into existence in Aus-
tralia, is read a first time on
January 24, 1843, almost 55
years to the day since Phillip
rowed into Sydney Cove to
found the city of Sydney ; 55
years from a time of absolute
darkness when nothing whatever
was known about anything inside
the coastline, and before which
there had not been a single white
resident in Australia. The same
year Sydney acquires a Mayor
an d Corporation,
The first elections are com-
pleted by August 1. The first
Australian Speaker, Alexander
Macleay, is elected next day. The
first Governor’s “address from
the Throne” is delivered, and an
address-in-reply adopted,
It is a memorable year. At
one stage 2500 immigrants pour
in in five months. For the first
time in history .exports exceed
imports in value.
In the 1830’s immigration of
artisans and small farmers had
changed the- nature of the
internal political conflict from
one between the exclusives and
emancipists to one between the
large landholders, on the one
hand, and the small settlers,
traders and workers, on the
other. And under Governor
Gipps, the franchise having
given ascendancy to the big land-
holders, a new fight developed
as between them and the
Governor, mainly over land
issues.
From then onwards —despite
the “hungry ’forties,” the con-
flict between squatter and work-
ing immigrant and emancipists,
the fights to abolish transporta-
tion and to prevent its renewal,
the discovery of gold, and the
separation-movements and the
argument —nothing can stop
Constitutional development, in
conjunction with separation of
the colonies from each other.
Elections from the first are
fiercely fought. The debating
ability of the Council —which
includes in the next decade
Wentworth, Robert Lowe,
Paikes, Lang, Bland, and others
—is exceptional.
The Home Government —pace
method and the right time —has,
as Earl Grey avers in 1849, “no
desire to impose on the inhabit-
ants a form of government not
suited to their wants and to
which they generally object.”
But at the same time his actual
detailed proposals, particularly
his district councils and '‘double
election” system, which was
designed to put electoral power
on an intensively regional basis,
produced violent local protests.
Grey and Fitzroy (the next
Governor) race to have the
honor of suggesting that a new
Legislature—which is a matter
of debate, heated sometimes —
might consist of two Houses.
Grey wins.
The incipient gold-years lend
warmth and instability to agita-
tion, but reform finds good
friends at the London end, and
Grey is again heard —above the
dissension in the colony over
voting methods and new fran-
chises, and such matters as
coolies and convicts—referring
to Australian communities
appearing to be competent
to originate and discuss
for themselves any changes
in their existing Con-
stitution, and to himself having
in contemplation recommending
that them respective legislatures,
when the different colonies have
been split-off to form new ones,
should have power to make such
alterations in their own areas
as might be thought expedient
—subject to the Queen in
Council. We find Grey’s succes-
sor Pakington even more expan-
sive in his compliance with the
popular colonial will.
The Thirty-year Fight
The aims of the starry-eyed
denizens of the young continent
had not, however, come readily
to fruition, because, generally
speaking, it was taken for granted
that they would in due course be
entitled to self-government.
The Home Government looked
for firmly definitive expression of
the popular will before acting.
It wanted to see the matter
thrashed out fully in all its
phases ; also to be sure that the
colony could finance itself per-
manently under self-government.
The fear that it might not did not
disappear until after the
discovery of gold.
Parallel with the slow legisla-
tive evolution which had been
going on there had been unceas-
ing agitation. The matters of
when and how and in what form
representative government
should be granted, of the nature
and shape of the Parliament and
who should be in it, and all the
other problems incident to grant-
ing democratic government
naturally had to be thrashed out
by discussion. There were differ-
ences and dissension —more, if
anything, between local conflict-
ing interests on details than
between the colonies as a whole
and the Home Government on
the main principle and issues.
In terms of racing colonial
progress it may have seemed a
long time before the end was
finally achieved, after the many
advances, step by step: a whole
generation in fact. In terms of
the history of a nation just born
it represented perhaps the
quickest operation of the sort on
record.
The practical agitation began
with the presentation of an
address to Sir Thomas Brisbane
on October 21, 1825, by a
deputation consisting of D’Arcy
Wentworth, his son, W. C. Went-
worth, Thos. Raine, W. J.
Browne and Daniel Cooper
petitioning for representative
government and taxation. Of
the members, two remained in
the battle to the end —W. C.
Wentworth and Daniel Cooper,
who became the Speaker of the
first New South Wales Parlia-
ment a generation later.
The fight proceeded by means
of meeting after meeting,
petition, representation after
representation through the
1830’s, right to the strongly
worded demand of February,
1842, in which the petitioners
claimed that the inhabitants
were “destitute of those free
institutions which every Briton is
taught to prize as the safeguard
of his liberties and the invalu-
able birthright of his race.”
It was after this that the partly
elected, 36-member Council was
constituted by Imperial Statute
passed on July 29, 1842, which
received the Royal assent next
day.
Then the battle began again:
for the widening of representa-
tion and of the franchise; for the
extension of the financial powers
of the Council, till the year 1850
came, with separation of Port
Phillip under the new name of
Victoria and the introduction of
the elective principle into Van
Diemen’s Land, S. Australia and
Western Australia.
Followed the news brought in
the Lysander on November 11,
1850 —an historic anniversary
which later was to have other
significances—that an Act for
.the Better Government of the
Australian Colonies had been
passed at Westminster, that
electoral qualification under a
new form of Parliament to be
designed by the local Legisla-
tive Councils was to be liberally
widened; that the way was
opened for the separation of the
North beyond the 30th Parallel;
that the goal was very near if the
pressure was kept up. The
colony dropped its ploughs and
pens and axes and mafficked for
four days.
The cry went up—the “com-
pere” was Wentworth as usual —
offering to meet the whole
cost of civil and military
administration and to provide a
civil list for the Queen’s lifetime
and five years afterwards in
return for complete self-govern-
ment and abrogation of the
Imperial veto save in matters
affecting Empire policy and
Crown rights.
Strong language was used
when Grey agreed in principle
but continued hesitant in action,
his mind rich in unacceptable
electoral expedients. He was
obviously still not ready to allow
the colony to take the plunge.
The powers which it is pro-
posed to give the local legislature
under the new scheme are
restricted by the Imperial Act of
1850 —drafted after a special
inquiry by the Committee on
Trade and Plantations of the
Privy Council —do not satisfy
any section in the colony. Under
the Act the British Government
is still to have a large say in
official appointments. Local
control of the Budget is to be far
from absolute. The executive
is still to be substantially
independent of the legislature.
The Council, on Wentworth’s
indignant initiative, frames a
strong remonstrance to the Home
Government in May, 1851, only
a few weeks before gold is dis-
covered at Ophir. (
The colonists are told by
Wentworth that the time for
petitioning is past and if redress
is not granted other steps must
be tried.
At this convenient moment
Grey passes off the scene and
the compliant figure of Sir lohn
Pakington emerges in his place
in the Colonial Office. He writes
that the administration of lands
and Customs should be trans-
ferred to the Council and
expresses the direct wish of the
Home Government that the
Council itself should frame a
law to institute a legislature of
two Houses, an elective
Assembly, a nominated Council.
By ballot, the Council chooses
a drafting Select Committee—the
second Wentworth (the
dominant figure, the draftsman),
Deas-Thomson, James Mac-
arthur, J. H. Plunkett, Cowper,
Martin, Stuart Donaldson,
Macleay and Terence Aubrey
Murray.
Now the battle changes
from one between colonists
and Home Government to
one... between class and
class within the colony. The
committee drafts a bill which
fills Darvall, Lowe and Parkes
and Piddington and Daniel
Deniehy with furyf. The main
bones of contention are man-
hood suffrage and the proposal
to confer titles on members of
the prospective Legislative
Council.
"The revolutions of 1848
are having their reactions
in Australasia, where Karl
Marx is not without his
followers and his influence.
He has taught his creed and his
diction to quite a section of the
new Australians who are flock-
ing into the country. Even
before the goldrush, immigra-
tion has properly begun. Also,
the attempt to reinstitute trans-
portation and the arrival of the
Hashemy with its cargo of con-
victs in June, 1849, has heated-
up “democratic” manners.
Public meetings have become
a popular amusement. The ripe
egg and the potato and the bag
of flour appeal to the taste of a
large section of the lower-orders.
Agitation has become good fun
—if not clean—in which every-
body loves to join: the orators
at the receiving-end, the inter-
jectors and the spud-hurlers in
(i Continued on page 34)


THt att-BRItISH
Sea it at
mens
iSffif
DANGAR. GESSYE & MAUOCH LTD.
i
r
r
y
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib! A
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Record growth brings
greater benefits to ail
policy holders
BONUS RATE
increased again!
New Policies issued £74,610,000
Payments to Policy Holders £7,303,000
TOTAL FUNDS to provide future benefits
to Policy Holders
£103,600,000
Purely Mutual • No Shareholders ,
AUSTRALIA’S MOST PROGRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager (or Australia.
NOTHING EQUALS
8 mmn amazing moan f
warmray
triple purpose
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing lire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray” ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
nil
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model No. 3 Super
Deluxe
Large Capacity Over
8,000 cu. ft.
•if Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
•if Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARM RAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes; (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS ®
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers aud Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents .
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To sell volume Hardings (sketches
on abroad —engravings by
Duffield Harding; selection of 24
drawings); and The Casquet of
Literature (6 vols.) —selection poetry
and prose from the works of authors
with engravings by Charles Gibbon.
—6323.
To buy Innocent Merriment, edited
by Franklin P. Adams (Garden City
Publishing Co., New Y0rk).—6324.
To buy The Power of Positive
Thinking; How a Penny Became a
Thousand Pounds; Literary Taste, by
Arnold Bennett; Diminutive Dramas.
by Maurice Baring; and L.S.D. of
Stamp Collecting, by Rossell. —6325.
Information Sought
(1) Difference between Viennese and
Parisian musical-pitch ? (2) How does
A ustralian pitch compare ?
(1) There is no reference in the
eighth edition of the Oxford Com-
panion to Music to these two pitches.
During the 18th century, pitch ranged
between A=4ls and A=43o; Han-
del’s tuning-fork registered A=422.5
(vibrations per second). But during
the 19th century pitch everywhere
tended to rise. In Britain, the London
Philharmonic Society discarded its
original pitch of 423.7 and adopted
one of 452.5, naming it “Phil-
harmonic Pitch.” Then, at the end
of the century, France’s “Diapason
Normal” (French pitch) of A=43 5
was generally adopted in Britain, and
was termed the “New Philharmonic
Pitch.” This modification, however,
excluded military bands, which
obstinately remained at the Old
Philharmonic Pitch of A—452.5 until
1929, when a universal standard of
A=439 was adopted. (2) Australian
pitch follows the European norm of
A —439 at 68deg. Fahrenheit.
* * * *
Origin of the term “maru,” used as
a suffix in the names of Japanese
merchant-ships ?
The term has been associated with
Japanese commercial shipping for a
long while. The dictionary meaning
is “round, or a circle.” About the
beginning of the Tokugawa era (1600-
1867) the Japanese Government issued
shipowners with licences which carried
a red-circle seal. The shipowner, to
show that he possessed the necessary
licence, would reproduce the circle
on some part of his ship (whether
ocean-liner or lighter). It is thought
that, from this universal use of the
circle (“maru”), grew the custom of
always adding the word to the ship’s
name —e.g., Shikiharu Maru. (This
answer was also printed on the “Ser-
vice” page, B. 28/4/’54.)
* * * *
How to recondition old cedar furni-
ture ?
Clean first with a damp cloth
wrung out of warm water containing
a little cloudy-ammonia, but do not
let the wood become saturated or
very wet. Touch-up faded or scraped
spots with a little cedar-stain in spirit
or oil, not in water: a weak solution
of dissolved crystals of permangan-
ate of potash may be used for this if
liked. Then clean again with any
vegetable-oiJ on a soft cloth; raw
lin§eed-oil or sewing-machine-oil is
recommended. Treat with a wax
polish, either bought ready-made, or
made with shredded beeswax in
turpentine melted to a paste over low
heat in a water-jacketed pan— it is
very inflammable. Rub this in lightly,
repeatedly, and polish with a woollen
cloth. Such repeated polishing should
give good results. Cedar is very soft,
so hard brushes or scrapers should
not be used.
* * * *
Information on N.Z. poetess and
novelist Robin Hyde ?
Iris Guiver Wilkinson was born in
South Africa in 1906, brought to N.Z.
as an infant, and educated at Welling-
ton Girls’ College, where she won
some literary prizes. She started work
on the “Dominion” as a journalist.
Suffering permanent injury in an
accident, she decided to devote her-
self to literature. Under the
pseudonym Robin Hyde she wrote
verse and prose for The Bulletin,
Auckland “Sun,” Auckland “Star”
and other papers. In 1934 she pub-
lished The Desolate Star, a small
volume of verse, and Journalese, a
volutpe of prose. There followed
Passport to Hell, Check to Your King
and Wednesday's Children (1936), and
Nor the Years Condemn and The
Godwits Fly (1938), all prose-works,
and The Conquerors (1935) and
Persephone in Winter (1937), two
volumes of verse. In 1938 she went
to China, where her health suffered
from hardships incurred in the
Japanese-Chinese war. Another book,
Dragon Rampant, was on the press
when she died in London on Aug
22, 1939.
* * * *
Do Austrians speak German, or is
there an Austrian language ?
German is the official spoken and
written language of Austria. There
is no difference between the written
German used in Germany and
Austria, but the spoken language
differs in accent and in usage. (A like
difference is that between spoken
English and American.) Austrians
and Germans would have no difficulty
understanding each other, unless one
spoke broadly in one of the many
local dialects.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the ship
Princess Victoria, which sank in the
Irish Sea a couple of years ago ? (2)
Is a complete account of the sink-
ing available in book-form?
(1) Of 2694 tons gross, the Princess
Victoria was built in 1947 at Dum-
barton (Scotland) for the London
Midland and Scottish Railway Com-
pany, but when the British railways
were nationalised the same year the
vessel passed to the State-owned
British Transport Commission; she
was used between Stranraer (Scot-
land) and Larne (Ireland), 35 miles
across, the Irish Sea. On Jan. 31,
1953, Princess Victoria left Stranraer,
under a heavy sky and rising wind,
at 7.45 a.m. Battered by rough seas,
and settling lower in the water all the
time, at 9.45 a.m. she radioed her
first call for help, sending out such
calls at intervals (and being all the
time in wireless communication with
the shore) till at 1.15 p.m. she sent
“Abandoning ship!”; at 1.58 p.m.
she sent out her last call, and
foundered a few minutes later, five
miles off the Irish coast. Of the 176
aboard (127 passengers and 49 crew),
only 43 were rescued. The remark-
able fact of the affair was that, despite
the ship having been in constant touch
by radio with the shore, and though
planes and ships searched for her and
she was never more than a few miles
from the British coastline, the Princess
Victoria wasn’t sighted, and it wasn’t
till after she sank that ships reached
her wreckage. The Court of Inquiry
held the British Transport Commis-
sion responsible, on the score mainly
that the design of the ship was not
suitable for all-the-year-round service
on the route and that a “default” had
earlier shown her to be unseaworthy
in certain conditions. (2) See Famous
Sea Tragedies, by Valenlme Dyalt,
published in 1955.
Brief Answers
C.M.W.: The “Australian” news-
paper of June 6, 1839, reported the
arrival of the ship Mellish (Jones,
master) on June 5 that year. She
left Plymouth on Jan. 26 with
merchandise. Passengers —Mr. Irvine,
Mr. and Mrs. Griffiths and two
children, Mr. Denne, Mr. Robert
Denne, Mr. Whitaker, Mr. Maitland,
Mr. Aldridge, Mr. and Mrs. Cates.
Mr. Beckett, Mr. Wood, Mrs. Norton,
Mr. Owen, Mr. Peckham and Mr.
Thompson. (Information from the
Royal Australian Historical Society.)
R.H.L.: (1) Tax payable in
respect of the year ended June 30. I
1955, on a taxable income of £lOOO
is £lO6 ss. provisional-tax in respect
of the year ending June 30, 1956, is a
like amount. (2) Write the Common-
wealth Statistician. Canberra, A.C.T.
G.H.McS.: (1) The highest rate
levied was 18s. 6d. in the pound for
the financial years 1943-1944, 1944-
1945 and 1945-1946. (2) The rate was
never 19s. 6d. in the pound... .G.T.:
(1) Allan Cunningham, the botanist,
discovered the Gwydir River on July
9, 1827, after crossing the Liverpool
Range and the Darling Downs. (2) He
named the river after the Baron
Gwydir (also spelt Gwydyr)....
H.E.M.: (1) In World War 1 Aus-
tralia recruited 416,809 to the Armed
Forces. Total Service casualties,
226.073; killed, died and missing,
59,258. (2) In World War 11 total
enlistment was 993,000 (with a peak,
in August, 1943, of 633,000); 66,000
women were recruited in the auxiliary
services. Total Service casualties,
237,749; killed, 33,826... .R.W.L.:
Unable to trace an aboriginal word
for “bough yards.” Nearest we found
is Wurli, “bough-shelter”; others
close are Moorong, “bark shelter,”
Willunga, “scrubby place,” Wirra,-
bara, “tree place”... .P.J.: Wagga
Wagga means “many crows”
Subscriber: See comment on the
bond-rate in “Business, Robbery”
(B. 9/5/’56) L.H.: Write Depart-
ment of Patents, Patent Office, Can-
berra, A.C.T., or Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures, Melbourne
G.C.: We don’t know of any recently
published list of Spoonerisms to refer
you to F.J.C.8.: (1) A military
plan was drawn-up for a “last-ditch”
defence on that battle-line if it had
been found impossible to hold the
northern part of the continent. (2)
General MacArthur was not called
on to make any such decision. (3)
The Curtin Government, which had
office on Oct. 7, 1941, was in office
throughout 1942. (4) Try Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, or Georgian House Pty., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 52, Albert Park, Victoria.
P’.W.: In our turn we say
“Thank-you” to you for writing
again. And may we here allay your
fears (and anyone else’s) that we had
“given your question a pass.” All
are answered (here, or directly),
though some “curly ones” do take a
bit of answering, and one or two
even crookeder ones have stumped
all our experts. And then there are,
of course, a lot of questions to be
answered C.H.: “The Wreck of
the Brunkencrungercrob” was re-
printed in Service Department (B.
28/3/’56) A.E.S.: Write James H.
Boulware, Agricultural Attache,
Embassy of the United States of
America, Canberra, A.C.T F.C.:
(1) It is some years since the bound-
aries of the Sydney Rugby League
clubs were reviewed, but no altera-
tion of them is contemplated at pre-
sent. (2) Write the Registrar-General’s
Department, Chancery-square,
Sydney Shep.: Once the sound J
track of gramophone-records is worn
out there is no further use to which
a recording can be put. After a
record has reached this stage, any
playing of it will probably result in
damage to the needle or stylus used.


Should the marking
of calves and the
marking and tailing
of lambs be carried
out by the knife or
by rubber rings?
Some time ago a
number of graziers
throughout Australia
were invited to ex-
press their views on
this subject. The out-
come of the question-
naire was “The Elas-
trator Bulletin,” a
copy of is avail-
able to anyone inter-
ested on application
to Elastrator (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., 125 William
Street, Melbourne.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
a h
h e attach-
tn t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State r-
DisPributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N.8.W. : Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Utd.
74 Castlercagh St., Sydney.
l«
yj
r
Af //
m |
it
w
THE AUSTRALASIAN
IRRIGATOR
Join the wise farmers who are boosting
production and insuring against drought.
Their text book is THE AUSTRALASIAN
IRRIGATOR which every month brings
them the latest information on irrigation,
water harvesting and grass farming.
Invest in this vital knowledge immediately.
Fill in and post this coupon, with yout
subscription, today, for one year’s post-free
delivery of:
IRRIGATION
The Australasian Irrigator,
Room 307, 12 Spring Street,
Sydney. BU 3488.
I enclose 30/- as one year's subscription.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WHERE THE COTTON GROWS
A LTHOUGH cotton was first
grown in Queensland at the
time of the American Civil War,
mainly at Beenleigh and on parts
of the Darling Downs, it is only
in recent years that the industry
has gained importance enough to
be classed as an “established
rural industry.”
These days, Queensland
cottongrowers have a guaranteed
price for their product, and it
is not quite the gamble it used
to be. Which is why more and
more farmers are turning to
cottongrowing mainly as a side-
line to dairying or beef-cattle.
Queensland’s total cotton-
acreage, in comparison with
America’s, is ridiculously small.
But the Australian wool-industry
—now the greatest in the world
—evolved from a few sheep.
The ideal type of soil for cot-
ton is in the northern State ; the
climate is particularly suitable.
The main disadvantages now are
high production-costs and lack
of irrigation. But these dis-
advantages could be overcome in
the near future, when the in-
dustry becomes more balanced.
The Dawson and Callide
Valleys are Australia’s cotton-
belts. These Central Queensland
districts are handily adjacent to
Rockhampton, but far enough
west to provide the right climate.
After the range has been
climbed, and Mount Morgan by-
passed, the range-locked valleys
ahead, sweltering in the summer
sun, bring to mind the sun-baked
plains farther west, miles and
miles away from coastal con-
tact.’ When writer first visited
the Dawson country, coming in
from Springsure, and looked for
shade for himself and horses in a
clump of brigalow-trees, he was
mildly surprised when he picked
up a copy of that morning’s
Rockhampton newspaper.
It didn’t seem possible that,
at the end of the valley, and
just over the range, lay Queens-
land’s second city. The valley
seemed just a dusty way to a
little cattle-town, fenced by the
blue-grey range.
The valley has altered a lot
since then. It is no longer
covered in brigalow-scrub ; there
are real roads —not just dusty
stock-routes —and the Dawson
and Callide Valleys are dotted
with neat homesteads and
ploughed paddocks. Contented
cattle knee-deep in Rhodes-
grass; and, instead of silence,
there’s the muffled roar of
tractors.
King Cotton brought the
change. The twin valleys were
cattle-country from end to end,
and there was only a pretence of
farming. Where writer was
working as a junior-stockman (a
few miles north from Thangool)
the only cultivation on the huge,
sprawling property was in the
homestead-garden. A Chinaman,
with a limited water-supply,
grew vegetables for 20 station
stockmen and also the home-
stead “crew.”
Admitted, quite a few cattle-
men thought of “turning the soil
over.” The limited rainfall no
doubt put them off.
But cotton thrives on very
little moisture. It needs some,
of course, at certain stages of
growth, but, unlike other crops,
it doesn’t need much.
These days there are all
nationalities in the Dawson and
Callide. Few of the old-time
stockmen became farmers when
the huge cattle-runs were cut-
up for closer-settlement They
moved out with the cattle.
The twin valleys are now
linked to Rockhampton by rail-
way ; the line continuing on
from Mount Morgan to Rannes,
where it branches, ope line going
through the Dawson and the
other through the Callide.
During the later years of the
depression, when Mount
Morgan was idle and droughts
were crippling the western
country, the twin valleys were in
the nature of a lifeline to Rock-
hampton. They provided con-
stant work for many of central
Queensland’s unemployed, and
during the cotton-picking season
thousands of men were assured
of at least two or three months’
steady employment. All roads
led to the valleys, and un-
employed from as far away as
Victoria and South Australia
came to Queensland for the
“cotton-snatchin’.”
Although coal is now being
mined in the valleys, the Dawson
and Callide are in a great degree
dependent upon two industries —
cotton and dairying. But neither
industry is independent of the
other. Few farmers can exist
on either cotton or dairying
alone.
The limited rainfall, although
suitable for cotton, is no incen-
tive to dairying.. But as dairying
means “a sure monthly cheque,”
cows and cotton usually go
together.
Hard to say what the future
holds, but if cotton is backed by
irrigation, the twin valleys could
become one of the biggest
cottonbelts in the world. We
could export raw cotton, instead
of importing just on 80 per cent,
of our requirements, as we do
now.
R. H. Conquest.
Footrot
“Mabel Ck.”: Even in infected
flocks footrot can be controlled
nearly as cheaply as it costs for
shearing (new rate!), according
to figures released by the Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture
when G. Letts recently addressed
the Chamber of Agriculture con-
vention.
On infected properties the
average cost of eradication was
£9 10s. a 100 (Is. lOd. a head),
including labor and the cost of
such equipment as footbaths and
disinfectants. (Labor, 6s. an hour,
pastoral award.)
Costs varied according to the
incidence of the disease (first run
through): 1 per cent, infection,
£6 ss. a 100 (Is. 3d. a head); 15
per cent., £l6 ss. (3s. 3d.); 8£
per cent., £lO 16s. (2s. 2d.); and
footrot free, £1 11s. (3fd.).
When formalin was used four
times a week 95 per cent, of first-
cures resulted —equal to the best
with Chloromycetin, and much
cheaper. A breakdown, and
several deaths, followed the use
of arsenic in footpaths.
Talk of Cattle
“Retired Bagman”: Their talk
is of cattle —Zebu cattle. The
Santa Gertrudis, it seems, might
bring to the Northern Territory
a permanent prosperity which
such periodically-boomed won-
ders as cotton, the Katherine
bridge, peanuts, the bitumen
“ Down , boy — down!”
road, Rum Jungle, air-transport
and the Manila cattle-trade have
so far failed to bring.
But before we get excited let’s
stop and consider one thing.
Here in the Territory we have
Shorthorn cattle which, in spite
of 80 years of treatment ranging
from carelessness to outrageous
neglect, have remained almost
miraculously true to type.
On a most conservative esti-
mate, they have been there for
25 generations, and have gained
total or partial immunity to the
diseases which the experts tell
us the Zebu-type cattle resist
much better than do the British
breeds.
It is possible that even their
blood-temperatures and sweat-
ing-points might have been
varied to suit their environment.
A comparison-trial for constitu-
tion between the Zebu-type and
a run of range-bred stock —from,
say, Victoria River Downs or
the Elsey—might save us a lot
of money in the present and a
lot of trouble in the future.
"Clean Honey"
“B-herd”: If “Drone B.” (B.
2/5/’56) isn’t careful he’ll have
more people asking for golden-
syrup than is good for the
industry. He writes a bit like
a man on a honey-packer’s
door.
Generally, his remarks are
misleading, for by far the greater
number of honey - grubbers
adhere to a decent standard of
cleanliness in producing table-
honey. In fact, for the com-
mercial man, it would be near
impossible for him to produce a
dirty tin of honey.
The £5OO or so that he has
spent on his processing-plant
ensures that the honey cannot
come into contact with dirt —
even, for that matter, with his
hands: from the time the honey
leaves the hive until it reaches
the packers’-floor it is—as the
advertising blurb used to say—
“untouched by human hands.”
Wax is not injurious to honey
—the bees use it. Neither is
wood, the only other “debris”
that may come into contact with
honey in the apiarist’s outfit.
Bees will, in times of dearth,
dive pell-mell into the settling-
tank and drown themselves in
their thousands, but bee-men
are not in the habif of wiping-
out their workmen in such
sanguinary fashion. For that
matter, if “Drone B.” had tasted
from the tank in question he’d
have found the honey not
affected in the least by the dead
bees. The profane apiarist he
quotes had reason to complain
if the honey was downgraded
because of the layer of bees on
top of the tank.
Granted that the packers will
always pick up the odd tin of
bee-filled honey, but nine times
out of 10 it comes from the
harassed backyarder fighting-off
his five hives to get it.
If dirty honey is worrying the
packers of South Australia their
methods of packing must be
antique. Queensland’s leading
packer tells me it’s of no
account in the northern State.
He should know. I’ve seen
fleets of big semis leave his
factory for the wharves. I asked
him, too, about bee-men’s
honesty regarding the sending of
samples. He told me that in all
his experience he could not
recall any swifties tried on him.
That’s how it should be, for
migratory bee-men are not fools,
and such poor and obvious
roguery as “Drone B.” mentions
is certainly the work of fools.
Fox-costs
“Ingomar”: Beware of the
ravages of Mr. Fox in the lamb-
ing-flock this year. Delegates to
Victoria’s recent Chamber of
Agriculture convention said that,
now that rabbits wtere scarce,
foxes were concentrating on
more valuable foodstuffs.
One man said foxes had
caused 45 per cent, mortality of
lambs in his flock. At the con-
servative estimate of 2 per cent,
losses, and with lambs at £3 a
head, Mr. Fox could cause a
£600,000-loss from lambs alone
in Victoria this season if
adequate control-measures are
not taken. At this figure there’s
a case for increasing the Vic-
torian fox-bonus of 7s. 6d. a
head to £l.
Poll Devons
“Old Harry”: Australia’s latest
importation in the stud-cattle
line are two Poll Devons from
the U.S.
These young bulls are being
mated to purfe, registered, stud
Devon females, and on past
experience with the bloodlines of
these imported bulls it should be
possible to produce a purebred
stud-book herd in North Queens-
land.
Devons were first imported to
the Plymouth Colony of North
America, from Devon (Eng.),
round about 1623. Today they
rate very high in the U.S. as
producers of the choice beef
that the quality-conscious there
demand.
The first purebred Poll Devon
beast in the U.S.A. (a sport) was
Napoleon 8902, dropped on a
stud-farm at Concordia, Mis-
souri, in 1913. Two years later
the same stud produced another
poll-calf, another bull, Missouri
9097, but from different parents.
However, it was found that the
dam of Missouri, Alpheretta H.,
was from the same cow as
Napoleon. Also, Madero, the
sire of Missouri, was by Leo, the
sire of Napoleon.
A poll herd was formed, and
over the years the poll influence


fi
See. it at
mem
I !£&
DANGAR, GEDYE & MAUOCH LTD.
More
T m
in more variety
and at less cost to you I
Per unit of belt
on drawbar h.p. •
Fordson Major is
Australia’s lowest
priced Diesel
powered wheeled
tractor.
DIESEL
MODEL
£lO9l
complete and including:
• 2 Speed Belt Pulley • Power Take
Off • Electric Lighting and Starting
Equipment • Tachourmeter
TYRES: M x 28, 6 ply, rear 7.50
x 16, 6 ply, front.
Optional equipment extra:
Hydraulic Lift, 3-point Linkage £76
Hydraulic Remote Control Kit
SAE/ASAE Standard) £73. Raised
Power Take off Assembly £3O
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plants.
PLOUGHING ... CULTIVATING AND EVERY TYPE
OF TILLAGE . . . SOWING AND HARVESTING
AND 101 MAINTENANCE JOBS THE YEAR ROUND
More Farm-Right Features Than Any Other Tractor—
Fordson Major handles easily everything from every
type of 3-point mounted implements or equipment to
drawn multiple discs, big combines with drag harrows or
big headers. Adequate, practical O.H.V. power, 6-speed
transmission, “touch-control” hydraulics and a long list
of other advances add up to more farm-right features than
provided by any other tractor. Your Fordson Dealer will
show you why, in every job in which a tractor can be used,
you’ll get better, lower-cost results with Fordson Major.
FORDSON REMOTE CONTROL
This is another example of Fordson
leadership in power-farming advances. It is
designed to SAE ASAE standard and is
applicable to all implements and equipment
on which remote control can be used. Your
Fordson dealer will give you full details.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
stmtugoca
FMI24-40
fm
u
41
sr-
Your local Fordson dealer will supply further details,
Your Fordson Dealer
can supply a full
range of implements
and farm equipment
for every usage.
LISTEN TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY Of THE 6S STATIONS IN THE NATION-WIDE WEEKLY BROADCAST
has become more dominant.
Although horned importations
were brought in from Devon,
the poll characteristics kept
recurring.
Boaz of Devonshire (his name
alone should get him a good
start) and his shipmate, Devon-
shire Caesar, were looking fine
when I saw them on Strathmore,
adjoining Rachel Henning’s
Exmoor country, in the Bowen-
Burdekin River district.
Not being a fortuneteller, I
cannot judge a bull by his looks,
much less a Devon without
horns. But their breeder, Leo M.
Parker, of Smithdale, Mississippi
(U.S.A.), claims they will pro-
duce 100 p.c. poll calves on
horned cows.
Nothing New?
“Mac’s Peak”: Although foot-
rot has spread greatly in Aus-
tralia with the increased area of
improved-pastures and good
seasons, the late Dr. Cameron’s
advice in 1907 about how to
control the disease is just as true
today—nearly 50 years later —as
it was then.
In Victoria’s “Journal of Agri-
culture,” he wrote:
Whatever application is used, it
should be given a chance to get at
the innermost ramification of the
ulceration, where the testering germs
are. Methods depending wholly on
footbaths are often ineffective. All
loose and under-run horn requires to
be pared away, otherwise the medica-
ment cannot reach the seat of the
operation of germs it is intended to
destroy.
Right on the nail.
"Big Fence"
“R. C. P.”: “J E. M.” (B.
4/4/’56) strikes not only an opti-
mistic but almost a romantic
note. He omits to tell us whether
that dingo-fence in Queensland
is intended to keep the dingo
in or out.
I fail to see how the line of
posts can be creeping to the
defence of cattlemen who will
be on the outer (western) side of
the netting, with hundreds of
dingoes around and behind them.
There will also be some hun-
dreds of dingoes east of the
netting, and the problem of
destroying them will be the
same as if the fence never
existed.
The fact that there is a fence
perhaps 70 or 80 miles away
won’t have any effect on the
breeding-instincts of the dingo.
The Big Fence will pass to
the north of Hughenden. Much
of the netting is already in posi-
tion, and has been for years. It
will need new fencing to link-up
across gaps, and some of the
existing fences may need
topping.
The area has many water-
courses, and the fence will be
hard to maintain. The netting
hung like an apron, which goes
back into position as the flood
goes down, is sound in theory
and beautiful on paper, but,
except for quiet-flowing creeks,
it’s useless in practice. Take the
Flinders, above Hughenden,
sweeping along 100yds. wide,
from nine to 12 miles per hour,
carrying huge trees with
limbs sticking up perhaps 15ft.
Remember this might happen
several times a week, through a
three-month wet-season.
A bad grass-fire will leave
miles of tangled netting lying
on the ground. Some graziers
have told me that they will be
paid £8 a year for every mile of
fencing running along their
property. This sum will be for
maintenance of the fence. In
bad country these graziers must
show a loss.
“J.E.M.” says a dogger gets
£5 a dingo-scalp; this must
include a special bonus, given
privately. The Government
bonus* for dingo-scalps in
Queensland is £l, and has never
been higher. Council doggers,
employed generally in the winter
months, are paid wages in addi-
tion to the bonus.
Governments which have been
unable to prevent the spread of
the imported fox all over the
State, and have allowed several
kinds of burr to invade the
country, even to the suburbs of
towns and cities, will have a
tough time getting the dingo
out.
It is an old saying that it takes
an old dog for a hard road.
When you think of it, the dingo
is old, and has come a long way.
His bones, estimated roughly at
a million years, have been found
with those of the diprotodon.
Changing conditions have wiped-
out, or reduced in size, many
other creatures, but the dingo
has weathered all trials and
remained practically unchanged.
Even today, in spite of what has
been said and written to the con-
trary, the dingo very rarely
mates with the domestic dog,
and is still nearly 100 per cent,
pure.
I have a kind of feeling that
when most of us have.gone to
our just reward the dingo will
still be going strong.
Cooling Cream
“Agricola”: Queensland
dairyfarmers are watching with
interest the use of tower-coolers
to cool cream on the farm.
Quality of cream deteriorates
markedly during the long, hot
summer, and a lot of cream-
coming into the factories is
down-graded because it hasn’t
been kept cool during storage.
Dairy-refrigerators are ideal
for the man milking a large herd,
but they are too expensive for
the smaller man. The tower-
coolers are inexpensive, and can
be put up by any reasonably
handy man.
The tower is 3ft. square and
12ft. high. A water-collection
tray is fitted into the tower 2ft.
from the ground, and the sides of
the tower, from the tray to the
top, are boarded-up.
A concrete water-pit, 18in.
deep and large enough to hold six
cream-cans, is built in the
separator-room. A fin. centri-
fugal-pump, cream-cooler and
plastic-hose complete the unit.
The water is pumped from the
pit, through the cream-cooler,
and then to the top of the tower
As it passes down the inside of
the structure, the water is frag-
mented into droplets by baffle-
boards.
After collecting in the tray, the
water gravitates through a lin.-
pipe back to the water-pit in the
separator-room. The water-
pump is connected permanently
to the power-drive, and the
water begins to circulate over
the tower as soon as milking com-
mences. After separation, the
cream is stored in the water-pit
until it is delivered to the
factory.
Tests have shown that cream
cooled by this method arrives
at the factory up to 25 degrees
(F) colder than uncooled cream,
and the percentage of choice-
grade is greatly increased.
If the farmer erects the unit
himself the cost will not exceed
£3O.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(13/5/’56)
The Single cycle has been the main seasonal control
to date; on this ground, general rains should Occur in a
large part of N. S. Wales during June, with mainly light
rain on the south coast and portion of the southern table*
lands. t # '\
General rains should continue in Queensland during
June, although the peninsula, north-west and far-west may
have mainly light rain. Rain may be heaviest in the
south-west, where further flooding may Occur. Similar con-
ditions should prevail during July.
General rains, above average, are likely in Victoria
during June, and South Australia should receive copious
rains throughout the whole State.
In Western Australia, heavy general rains should be
received in the south-west, particularly between Perth and
Esperance. Good falls may occur in the Portescue and
goldfields areas, moderate in the Gascoyne, poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


the audiences loaded with wit
and suitable ammunition.
When the new draft Constitu-
ton is ready for debate m the
Council the external
democratic fury of the mob
makes even the interior of that
Home ot objurgation and in-
nuendo seem a haven of calm
until tempers really rise.
The second reading takes
seven days to filter to a vote and
there is not a moment of the
fight which does not prove that
if the adversaries concerned with
the matter lack any x of the
normal Parliamentary qualities it
is not good honest hatred of an
opponent.
The bill eventually emerges
from the committee stage shorn
of its hereditary provisions. It
serves up for the consideration
of the Imperial Parliament a
Legislative Council of 21 mem-
bers' who are to be elected in
the first place for five years (the
remainder at the end of the term
to sit for life), four-fifths of the
membership to be outside the
official classes and holderst of
.“be cho'en bv ™
chosen by the Crown.
The Assembly is to have 54
members elected for five years.
All inhabitants of six months,
21 years of age, British-born, or
naturalised, unconvicted (or, if
convicted, pardoned), who have
paid their rates and taxes and
who own freehold estates of
value of £lOO are to have votes,
All householders, occupiers of
lodgings or leaseholders of three
years’ standing, at £lO per annum,
persons with salaries of £lOO a
year, boarders at £4O a year,
holders of pasture-licences for
months also are to vote.
Amid wild cheering the bill
is passed in its third reading by
27 votes to 6 on December 21,
1853.
In the rain Wentworth and
Deas-Thomson set sail for
England, loaded down with
praise and presentations, to see
the measure through the
Imperial Parliament. It is just
over 30 years since Wentworth
.and his fellows bearded Brisbane
when the new Constitution
*S, Ro^l Assent on
ly ’ 8 ;
The Soverelgn Colony
In 1855 _ 67 years a£ter
Botany Bay was colonised—
tlie N s Wales colony
j s gran ted full responsible self-
government and a proper Par-
liament to serve its 270,000
i n h a bitants. It has now 171,000
cultivated acres. It exports
nearly £3,000,000 - worth of
products. It has a national debt
0 f nea rly £900,000, and is spend-
ing nearly as much from revenue,
an d a s much again from loan-
money. Victoria, Tasmania,
s.A. also are the repositories of
p a rliamentary responsible gov-
ernment.
The original colony has an
up - and - coming educational -
system. It has a university. The
embryos of all the States have
been derived from, it except
Queensland. It has a Ministry,
a free press, the beginnings of a
railway-system, everything that
a modern democracy needs,. Its
first trade-union has been
formed in 1852. It even has
Henry Parkes. The Federal
concept already exists.
chamdeon-like life for some
time, while it learns to stand on
its feet. It has crisis after crisis,
as the party-system emerges
from a pristine melting-pot in
situations which prove that the
lion and lafnb will not lie down
together, even in Ministries.
Two years later N. S. Wales
and Victoria have manhood-
suffrage and the secret ballot,
which puts them in advance of
the Mother Country.
Year by year—beginning in
1857, when it was provided that a
simple majority in the Houses,
instead of an original two-thirds,
could amend the Constitution —
restrictions in full sovereign
Governmental power were
gradually removed.
All that the pioneers have
accomplished has produced a
civilisation which has stretched
round the continent within the
normal span of the single life of
one man.
There were many alive in 1856
who remembered when Aus-
tralia was not even a name.
Yet what had been achieved
in the first 67 years was nothing
’cenTurv W ° U ‘ d “ **
It is amazing to think that in
the year in which one’s grand-
father was born the Australian
mainland held only 30,000
people, and was subject to the
w jn 0 f a single Governor, and
t h a t he lived long enough to see
the population pass 5,000,000,
and Federation working.
The most astonishing feature
0 f the story is the smooth and
ordered manner in which
responsible government was
achieved by a series of logical
stages.
it is equally astonishing how
the thought and intention of the
original projectors of Australian
colonisation had worked out.
Civilisation in World War I to
a great degree, and in World
War II crucially, had good
reason to appreciate the presci-
encp of Lord Egmont and Sir
George Yonge about the value
of Australia as a base in war,
apart from its value as a source
of basic materials in peace.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Kids and the Community
For the last three years I have been
associated with a very large and very
new primary school in one of Tom Play-
ford’s new industrial suburbs in S.A.
Children attending the school come partly
from Australian families, but mostly
from' migrant families from Britain. Both
Old and New Australians are mostly
craftsmen and factory-workers; both
categories contain battlers and batteners ;
there are plenty of adults with wood-
yards on their shoulders, and there are
more than a few who are planning
university careers for their offspring.
At the school there are a few boys—
though surprisingly few —with police-
records. Since these boys, although not
naturally bright, afe not troublesome at
school, the question arises: Why should
they be in strife out of school? Because
a new community shows the social skele-
ton more clearly than one grown old and
adipose, it is possible to find at least
some of the answers.
Easily the most fruitful cause of
delinquency is the isolation of the indi-
vidual that occurs in large modern cities.
Man has become conditioned to com-
munal life by millennia of existence in
small social units —clans, tribes, villages
or townships—where he has had a known
and certain position in his society, a
sense of belonging to a group, and a sure
fellowship.
In modern life, especially in a new
community, the old human contacts and
friendly institutions are lost. Society no
longer has a real meaning, because the
individual has no position in it that he
personally can understand. The youngster
of 12 to 16 finds the answer to his
gregarious needs in gangs, and, in the
absence of any real sentiment for society,
sees no reason why he should abstain
from anti-social acts.
This reversion to the state of the
medieval landless man is actively
furthered when the youngster comes from
a family that is “agin the Government.”
A surprising number of children are
directly or indirectly encouraged by their
parents to resist all forms of authority.
Such families, together with those Tn
which both parents go out to work, are
also culpable in that they fail to provide
the ordered and stable environment with-
out which no child can develop normally.
The school, then, can often provide a
better environment than the child’s own
home, or his own suburb outside the
school-fence. If the school is a good one
it will strive always to give its pupils a
sen& of belonging to something worth
while. Modern teachers know that an
active class-spirit and school-spirit are the
only real means of discipline, and conse-
quently do everything possible to
encourage this corporate idea. Feeling
part of the team is natural and satisfying
to the child, and he reacts accordingly.
With the difficult child who will not
conform —who has been taught at home
that he is better than the other kids, or
that he is not to.be. bossed-about by any
teacher—the school has first to teach that
necessary submission to authority which
should have been learnt at home.
Corporal punishment in fitting doses is
still, except in the case of the ultra-
sensitive child, the quickest and easiest
(for the child) means of checking the
outlaw. Once he has learned that punish-
ment consistently and certainly follows
certain offences he will soon come to
accept punishment as the inevitable result
of wrongdoing. The process is all too
often lengthened by the intervention of
an irate parent, but once the lesson is
learned most of the child’s school-
troubles are over —in future he will very
rarely need the stick.
A school, too, runs to an ordered
routine. Lessons, playtime and meal-
breaks follow in a regular and little-varied
succession very different from the chaos
“The new petrol-tax doesn't worry me, officer."
of many “homes” from which both
parents go out to work. As child-study
has shown repeatedly, an accepted routine
is not only satisfying to the child but is
absolutely necessary to give him that
sense of security without which normal
development yviU not proceed,
Certain measures suggest themselves
whenever the cry against the child-
delinquent goes up. First, any responsible
Government, local or otherwise, should
provide community-centres for young and
old in all new suburbs. South Australia
has planned such centres in the new town
of Elizabeth, but in the rush and divided
authority of new suburban-building such
provision is seldom made. Organisations
to which children may attach themselves
out of school —Boy Scouts, youth-clubs
and church youth-groups—all deserve
encouragement and support. House-
holders should be encouraged to partici-
pate actively in community-life.
Parents should be fined in every case
when a child is convicted in a court. Such
fines, if progressive, would not inflict
hardship on the father whose nipper has
made a slip, but would most definitely
encourage a sense of responsibility in
those families whose children are all too
familiar to the local magistrate.
The cane, applied without rancor but
quite inevitably, would probably be a
greater deterrent than any quantity of
well-meaning sentimentality in handling
children. — Propalong (S.A.).
Ambulances
I don’t agree with “Sacerdos” (B.
2/5/’56) that the prime function of the
Queensland Ambulance Transport
Brigade “is the transport of the sick
and injured to a place for medical treat-
ment.”
The first function of the brigade is to
render first-aid ; transport is secondary,
and the brigade-constitution sets this out
plainly. Doesn’t “Sacerdos” mean
“economy” when he writes of “effici-
ency”? No ambulance-man enjoys
battling on the streets for charity, and
all would be happy to have the brigade
financed entirely by the State, instead of
by a subsidy on funds raised.
If a trained nurse or a doctor is
needed to accompany an ambulance in
emergencies, why employ a redundant
first-aider? Why not have the nurse or
doctor qualify as a driver?
“S.’s” suggestions are not new. Twenty-
five years ago similar arguments were
placed before a hospital commission
which was set-up by the Queensland Gov-
ernment, and which inquired into the
administration, services rendered, costs
and the advisability of placing Q.A.T.B.
centres under the control of local
hospitals.
The medical representative on the com-
mission was the late Dr. E. Samford
Jackson, and as the superintendent of
a small centre in North Queensland I
appeared before the commissioners. As
an outcome of the inquiry, the Govern-
ment decided to leave the ambulance-
services well alone, although there were,
and still are, two or three hospitals with
ambulance-cars attached, as advocated by
“Sacerdos.”
Since that commission a new system
of hospital-finance and the appointment
of State-nominees to hospital-boards
have brought the administration of hos-
pitals directly under Government con-
trol. Not so the Q.A.T.8., in which
committees elected by subscribers among
local residents control ambulance affairs.
Born out of necessity during the gold-
mining days and when the State’s lands
and scrubs were being opened-up, the
Q.A.T.B. is a people’s institution deeply
rooted in our way of life.
In fire, flood or accident, in the cities
and outback, ambulance-men have always
provided humanitarian service in a highly
efficient manner. The service, with very
few exceptions, is absolutely free,
irrespective of race, color or creed.
Radio and aerial-ambulances are a
far cry from the push-litter and grey
ponies of pioneer-days. Radio is used
to keep cars on transport going from
case to case and to contact strategically-
placed accident-cars. Hospitals are
warned of an emergency en route, a
system which recently helped to save the
life of a lad bitten by a suspected taipan.
Cairns aerial-ambulance shelters the
people of the outback and the Peninsula,
and Rockhampton centre is organising a
similar service.
The Q.A.T.B. works well as it is; it
should be left to stand on its own merits
without interference. —Ex-R.A. (Q.).
Accidents
Legislation has been proposed in Vic-
toria which would enforce annual testing
of cars more than 10 years old as part
of the State’s road-safety campaign.
I doubt if such legislation would
achieve any worth-while result. Age in
itself is no criterion of a car’s condi-
tion ; a car used only for family travel,
as many cars are, obviously has a much
longer working-life than one in constant
use for business. Mileage would be a
better basis for testing—no driver should
object to a rule requiring that after, say,
50,000 miles renewal of registration
should be conditioned upon a certificate
of road : worthiness signed by a qualified
motor-mechanic.
Aged and mechanically - deficient
vehicles cause very few road-accidents;
they accounted for only 5 per cent, of
last year’s Victorian total. Excessive
speed, negligence and drink accounted for
far more.
By all means take faulty cars off the
road, but don’t forget that there is a
very much greater need to take faulty,
negligent and drunken drivers off the
road, too. —D. J. G. (Vic.).


‘‘Economic Dictation* ’
In describing the aims of the Menzies-
Fadden Government (in their increased
sales-tax on “luxury goods”) as
“authoritarian processes,” and saying that
“the most odious feature’ is the stated
aim of economists and bureaucrats to
tax these goods beyond the reach of the
people for matters of pojicy rather than
revenue,” “Dick Turpin” (B. 16/5/’56)
seems to have overlooked some of the
principal functions of democratic
Governments as we have known them
over the past 150 years.
Hasn’t he ever heard of the arguments
of Protection v. Freetrade? Under a
Protectionist policy Customs-duty (a tax,
like excise or sales-tax) has been levied
by nearly every European and American
country for a century at least in order
to give local industry an advantage over
the foreign manufacturer by forcing up
the cost of the imported article. To say
that the recent development in Australia
is quite alien to the traditions “that built
this country and, indeed, the strength of
the Anglo-Saxon civilisation in Britain,
America and member-countries of the
British Commonwealth” is, in the light of
economic history, absurd.
The Bank of England, though only
recently has it become a Government
instrumentality, has for generations
exercised an arbitrary power over
interest-rates with a purely disciplinary
objective in mind; it certainly doesn’t
raise or lower the bank-rate in order to
make more profit, but simply to coerce or
induce people to act, economically, in a
way different from what they have been
doing. They can still go on doing as
before, if they want to, but at greater
cost to themselves. So can the Australian
citizen under the increased sales-tax and
excise-duty now operating.
When a country specifically legislates
to forbid people from doing things or
buying things the ugly authoritarian ques-
tion certainly arises. But there is no
penalty for buying a car or drinking beer
in proper circumstances in Australia. You
pay more now, but you can buy what
you like provided you have the money
or the credit.
Under the Federal Constitution the
Commonwealth Government has very
few powers other than those under the
defence and financial provisions. In times
of economic or industrial difficulty it has
to rely on its financial powers. We are
at present facing an inflationary crisis,
with an embarrassing balance-of-pay-
ments problem. If the Government didn't
endeavor to persuade the people to act in
a way that would help overcome the
problem it wouldn’t be a Government.
After all, Governments are expected to
govern—within the spirit and the letter of
their country’s Constitution. — Adam
Inaby (N.S.W.).
Insurance
What is “Ceg’s” authority for saying
that insurance is one of Australia’s largest
invisible imports (B. 2/5/’56)? To the
best of my knowledge, no such statistics
are available.
Insurance companies from Britain and
other countries have established them-
selves in Australia over the last century
at the open invitation of Commonwealth
Governments in the same manner that
other overseas industries of various kinds
have done and are doing today.
Their policies, supported by overseas
capital, have contributed to Australia’s
progress in all fields of endeavor. Aus-
tralian and New Zealand companies
have played a similar role, and the result
is a sound, competitive insurance market,
giving excellent service to the insuring
public.
The overseas companies operating here
pay millions of pounds in wages and
salaries to an army of Australians, all
purchasers of Australian products. They
pay millions in taxes, invest millions in
property and in Government and other
loans. They pay the bulk of fire-brigade
costs. They are good citizens.
Apart from the fact that it is normal
for overseas companies of various kinds
to transfer part of their funds overseas,
it is essential that insurance companies
do so. Insurance is an international
business in its risk-sharing aspect.
That applies with equal force to Aus-
tralasian insurance companies operating
here. They would be imprudent indeed to
rely purely on local reinsurance facilities.
—lnsurer (Vic.).
How are the “vast profits” made by
British insurance companies “sent out of
the country”? By bank-notes in chaff-
bags?
Doesn’t “Ceg” realise that the only way
profits (or capital of any sort) can be
“Actually we wanted one with a tiled roof —we live in a brick area.”
taken from one country to another is by
the purchase of goods in the home-
currency, and then by their resale in the
country of destination in its currency?
Goods comprise all exchangeable com-
modities, including gold. Therefore,
profitable British insurance companies
indirectly become buyers for our wool,
wheat, butter, wines, dried-fruits, etc.
Over the years banks have developed
an ingenious system of exchange of
credits, which can pass through a multi-
tude of hands, but in the final analysis it
is, in this case, the insurance company
that provides the money to make the
purchases, to our national benefit.
The same applies to General Motors-
Holden’s, except that the U.S.A., being
largely self-sufficient, is not open to buy
as many commodities from us as the
United Kingdom.
On the other hand, Australian insur-
ance companies distribute their profits
locally and have no beneficial effect on
our export industries. —H. H. B. (N.S.W.).
The Endeavour
Captain Cook’s barque Endeavour had
a chequered career after it had played
its part in Australia’s history (B. 9/5/’56).
French - American whaling interests
bought the barque in England in about
1791. It was registered under the name
of La Liberte and sailed out of Newport,
Rhode Island (U.S.A.), under the tri-
color.
While being chased by a British frigate
in 1793 the barque ran ashore on Breton
Reef while seeking refuge in Newport
harbor. A survey at Newport found it
unseaworthy and it was condemned.
A specimen of timber from the hull is
now in the Marine Museum at Newport.
—P. W. R. (N.S.W.).
Retired Men
Every day, in all the capital cities of
Australia, an army of men past middle-
age hopefully search the “Positions
Vacant” columns of their metropolitan
newspapers. They usually look first
under the heading “Retired Men.”
Sometimes there is an advertisement
asking for such a man, and the hopeful
prospect heads for town, taking the pre-
caution of being well on time. When he
gets there he finds the passage leading to
the promised land crammed with other
hopeful applicants—anything up to 50
retired men waiting to convince the per-
sonnel-officer that they could fill the
job satisfactorily.
There is a lot of good material in this
body of retired men. Most of them have
been retired under age-regulations which
take no heed of their physical state or
their mental capacity. Many of them
have years of good work in them. Few
would be seeking employment unless they
needed it; they would much prefer to
spend their retirement in following their
favorite hobbies. But they have found
that what they allowed for their old age
is hopelessly inadequate for the present
cost of living.
There is work in the community that
these men could do, and do well, but
there is no organisation to which they can
turn or from which employers can seek
men of good character and ability.
Couldn’t the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service set-up a special branch to
deal specifically with the middle-aged and
the elderly? It has the organisation,
staff and premises and it is not over-
worked at present.— Tock Emma
(N.S.W.).
Hotels
Hotels are a great attraction to those
trying to get rich quickly. The man with
perhaps a couple of thousand pounds can
buy into a small wayside pub and, apart
from ingoing, trading can be conducted
with little stock, and- all are cash-
customers.
No wonder so many have been
attracted into the field. Their main
interest is to get as much out of the
proposition as possible in the shortest
time, and finance is raised by sales of
homes, long-service funds, private loans
and in various other ways.
I have just left a large country town
after living there for about five years
During that time one hotel changed hands
five times. What likelihood was there of
any licensee building up an acceptable
standard of service? A profit while there
and a gain on the sale were the main
objects.
Before 1940 I lived for nearly 20 years
in country hotels, and, in the main, the
licensees were friendly and anxious to
please. Many were real “mine hosts”
who had been in one hotel for years and
had made the calling a carefully-planned
lifetime job. They were often capably
assisted by their wives and families.
I have spent many happy hours with
such people—a game of cards, chess,
draughts, etc., with a cup of tea before
going to bed. Today hotelkeepers of this
type are considered out-of-date—but they
made the country hotels. They were
interested in local affairs and held many
important civic posts; their hotels became
known by their personal names—an
outstanding and well-merited tribute.
I don’t know how we could get ,back
to this state of affairs, but legislation to
prevent hotels from changing-hands so
frequently might be a step in the right
direction.
These things are obvious: the bar has
taken charge, and the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment is not prepared to do anything
about accommodation in hotels ; and too
many men going into the trade generally
do so with the dominating idea of getting
rich quickly.
Unless people are ready and prepared
to make a lifetime avocation of hotel-
management the present standards won’t
improve very much. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Canberra’s Bridges
A good deal of water has flowed
over three of Canberra’s four bridges in
recurrent floods of the usually placid
Molonglo. When this happens all north-
south traffic by cars, trucks and buses is
restricted to the narrow and long Com-
monwealth bridge. When public
servants are going to their work
or hurrying away from it the
traffic-delays resemble Pitt-street or
Swanston-street. The waste of time is
bad enough, but the floods give police
and other authorities a few nightmares,
because the hospital is north of the river
and the ambulance and fire-brigade are
on the south, miles away. Yet the Gov-
ernment recently crossed-off the Estimates
the proposed new high-level bridge.—
M. W. (A.C.T.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 383
Across
I—Where to dig up royalty fur? (6)
4 —Thousand-dollar morning’s ances-
tresses. (8)
8— It is bettor to kick the Queen. (6)
9 Hair-do note turned to music
by an alderman. (4-4)
10—Form’s funguses. (6)
12 —Chaldean capital has its hair oil a
Norse god. (6)
14—-Drink by daylight; it affects the
weather. (7)
magistrate is in evidence
about Adamson’s mother. (5)
17 — Age has an article on Queen
Elizabeth.' (3)
18 — Altered the altered alter. (5)
19— —St. Matthew follows this mother
dye with a distant greeting. (7)
21 — Batting indisposition to kiss the
flowing in. (6)
22 Renowned leaders of the Swiss
and the British bank-clerk. (6)
24 The wise-cracker of the first
orchard town in western Victoria.
(8)
25 — Sydney suburb is evident in the
last month. (6)
26 English fishing centre where
Lindwall turned the kisser. (8)
27 — Underworld like Greece. (6)
Down
1 — A ball from the Lindwall service
of the P.M.G.’s department.
(7, 8)
2 Hall Caine was one fellow multi-
plied by another. (7)
3 A spooky actor named Peter
upset another actor named Flynn.
(5)
4 This makes a regiment ashen and
leaden. (5)
5 Incomparable apron line is
varied. (9)
6 This makes a seaman range to
shorten a Sydney Harbor “coat-
hanger.” (7)
7 They are written over pop’s tin
cruisers in a new formation. (15)
11—Dissuades. (6)
13 —King George is Yours Truly, but
weight. (6)
15—A favorite football century greet-
ing none but a tamer of a shrew.
(9)
18 —Sinister sounds are observed by
this opposition organ. (4, 3)
20 —Hearty drink. (7>
22 — They bite. (5)
23 — Irish country is out in the
middle. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 382


r
V
i
H,
_ r—^
'T y °-."
.cO~ - -
y:r
■"V __c? v,. ; ——p
T\ W ,•- V” ;/>■—-s . ''"'‘JS f.; i" ~“»<■ n
AcVi\ / \ss, t>''.lv r
"f' 1
■=3^-^
c ( r^:
J
'" r-~- 'l/ — L »
'c^llllV
He will be
carrying 0n...
The emphasis these days for the man on the land is CONSERVATION of soil,
fodder and stock. Scientific study of agricultural problems has revealed ways of
improving the quality and quantity of output and of CONSERVING THE FER-
TILITY OF THE LAND. More and more research is being undertaken to help
the man on the land conserve and consolidate. There is, however, a more pressing
problem THAI Oh CONSERVING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon his
death his property may pass on to his Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have ever been, yet paradoxically the
growth in value has increased the liability, for there is one debt that cannot be
escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens 1 Assurance Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,”
has for many years specialised in the field of ESTATE CONSERVATION,
and has developed an attractive range of policies especially suitable for the
purpose. In some cases the amount required to pay Death Duties is consider-
able, and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced premium rate for higher-than-
average requirements—this premium rate is one of the lowest available in
Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more
about THE M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you
personally. Contact your nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note
to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box 1598) or the nearest M.L.C. District
Office.
Manager for New South Wales, G. E. ALLEN
ML7S/FP
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
a
The
(incorporated in N.S. ft'J
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limited '
