

f
m
I
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
' I
The Bulletin
THE “MAHOGANY SHIP” MYSTERY-mge 27
The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No, 3970
Wednesday, March 14, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 289: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
THE HORSE GUARDS OF WHITEHALL, UNFAILING MAGNET FOR VISITROS
THE broad thoroughfare which runs from Trafalgar Square in the centre
of London to the Houses of Parliament is known as Whitehall. Here
flourishes the machinery of government—the Treasury, Home Office, the
Admiralty, War Office and other departments, each housed in its own
imposing palace.
An unpretentious little street on the west side of Whitehall is Downing-
street, where, at No. 10, resides the Prime Minister of the day. Opposite the
Home Office in the centre of the roadway is the Cenotaph, which commemor-
ates the fallen of two world wars. On the east side of Whitehall is one of
London’s most beautiful buildings, Inigo Jones’s Banqueting Hall. This
superb example of Palladian architecture is all that remains of the old Palace
of Whitehall. It was through a window of this hall that Charles I passed
in 1649 to the scaffold erected in the roadway in front of it.
On the opposite side of Whitehall is a plainly-designed building known
as Horse Guards. It has a low clock-tower and archway created by Kent
about 1751 to succeed a building erected on the site in 1641 as a guard-house
for the Palace of Whitehall. It is now a department of the War Office and
every week-day morning and at 10 a.m. on Sundays it is the scene of Mount-
ing the Guard, undertaken alternately by the Royal Horseguards and the
Life Guards. It is one of London’s most colourful ceremonies and is a
masterpiece of military precision and pageantry which never fails to draw its
throng of onlookers. Shortly before the hour, the Old Guard parade m the
forecourt and as the clock strikes the hour, the New Guard, mounted on their
magnificent black horses, arrive in the courtyard and form a line facing_ the
Old Guard. After the reliefs have been posted the Old Guard rides off by
way of Horse Guards Parade, the Mall, Constitution Hill and Hyde Park
Corner to Knightsbridge Barracks. . .
The chief attraction of the ceremony to Londoners and to visitors Horn
overseas is the colourful and splendid traditional uniform worn by the troops
taking part —burnished breastplates flashing in the light, plumed helmets,
white-buckskin breeches, highly-polished long black riding-boots and, in
winter, long flowing coats. In winter and summer this brilliant pageantiy
brings colour and excitement to the streets of London.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
find for fiction, text book,
KirtfrraTiViv history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
TWO AT THE BARRIER REEF
It is, no doubt, inevitable that two
writers dealing with the same locality
should sometimes hit upon the same
phrases to describe it, especially when
the phrase is more-or-less a cliche
anyhow ; so that one should hardly be
surprised to find Vincent Serventy, in
the second paragraph of the first chapter
of his Australia’s Great Barrier Reef
(Georgian House) remarking, “Turning
to the Great Barrier Reef in particular
we have one of the wonders of the
world”—almost in the same terms as
those used by T. C. Roughley in the
opening paragraph of the preface in
what is generally regarded as the stand-
ard work on the Reef, Wonders of the
Great Barrier Reef, first published in
1943. Roughley began, “The Great
Barrier Reef of Australia is one of the
great natural wonders of the world.”
Nor is it surprising that both should
quote the same classic descriptions ;
as when, following Roughley’s quota-
tion on the barnacle —“They have been
described as kicking the food into the
mouth”—Mr. Serventy amplifies it to
“A famous scientist once described the
animal as lying on its back, holding on
by its head and kicking its food into
its mouth with its heels.”
Nor, once more, is it surprising that
two visitors to the Reef—Mr. Serventy,
described by his publishers as “a
brilliant naturalist,” has been a guide
for tourists at one of the islands, and
toured the area in 1954 to get the
material for this book—should have
practically identical experiences: as
when we find in Roughley the anec-
dote: —
I was once collecting shells on a
shore where they lay in millions about
a foot deep near the water’s edge,
and leaving my collection on the
sand above high-tide mark for about
half an hour, I was astonished to
find on my return that fully 20 per
cent, of them had crawled away.
They were dead shells, but they
formed the temporary abode of her-
mit-crabs which promptly crawled
back to the moister region from
which I had removed them . . .
While in Serventy we have:—
One day I placed a number of
almost cleaned shells in a pool hop-
ing the animals there would clean
out the last remnants of flesh. In-
stead the hermit-crabs quickly began
to prospect all these new and attrac-
tive homes. One tiny animal transfer-
red from a shell about one inch long
into a shell at least six times too
large. It made a gallant struggle to
lift its new home but then gave up
in disgust and went back to the old
shell. The change from one to the
other was done with astonishing
speed.
In such anecdotes as this Mr. Serv-
enty writes with keen observation ; and
indeed (though his short handsomely-
illustrated book of 87 pages is intended
only as a hand-book for tourists, and
in general lacks the pictorial vividness
and wealth of description in Roughley’s
massive 282 pages) there are occasions
when he is more picturesque in detail
than his forerunner—perhaps chiefly
when dealing with the birds: Roughley
being primarily a patron of fishes.
Roughley says of the roseate-tern, for
instance:—
Occasionally, however, two species
may live together in perfect harmony,
and an instance of this is to be seen
on Wilson Island, one of the Capri-
corns, where the roseate-tern and the
blacknaped-tern nest on the same
shingle beach .... The roseate-tern
deposits her eggs, usually two in
number, amongst small shrubs, in
creepers, or near large stones
While Serventy, more lyrically— not
tnat there is any lack of enchanting
bird-lore in Roughley— says: ?
One of the loveliest birds of the
Reef is the roseate-tern .... The
forehead, crown and nape are a
dense black. The rest of the body is
shades of aluminium-grey and -white
The legs are coral-red, while the beak
seems variable .... The underparts
are white and tinged with rose-color.
This delicate flush, which gives the
bird its name, seems to vary in differ-
ent specimens. I have found it
noticeable only when the bird is very
close, and then it is a thing to marvel
at. This description does cold jus-
tice to this delicate master of the air.
Literally it has to be seen to be
appreciated. A colony of breeding
birds is a miracle of grace and color.
Nevertheless, when the inevitable
coincidences have been allowed for
and the differences noted, other
coincidences in Mr. Serventy’s book
both in general structure and in much
of the writing become more remark-
able still.
Roughley has a chapter entitled
“Crabs and Their Allies” ; Serventy has
a chapter entitled “Crabs and Their
Relations.” Roughley ends his chapter
on crabs with a dissertation on the
“painted-lobster,” prawns, shrimps and
barnacles; Serventy ends with the
“painted-crayfish,” prawns, shrimps and
barnacles. Roughley follows his
account of the mud-skipper with an
account of the sucker-fish ; Serventy
does the same. Roughley ends his
squid-chapter with the nautilus; so
does Serventy.
Roughley says (page 115): —
The most popular of all the shells
of the Barrier Reef are undoubtedly
the cowries.
Serventy says (page 27): —
Possibly the favorite with all shell-
collectors is the cowry.
Roughley says (page 120):
The name “sea-slug” is rather an
unfortunate one ....
Serventy says (page 29): —
The sea-slugs are rather unfortu-
nately named.
Roughley says (pages 122 and
125): —
We now come to a type of shell-
fish that is in many ways the most
remarkable and the most highly
organised of all those embraced in
this great group of molluscs—the
squid, the octopus and their allies ....
The flesh of the squid provides excel-
lent bait.
Serventy says (pages 30 and 31):
Finally we come to the octopus,
squid, cuttlefish and similar forms
.... On one thing both sides agreed.
Squid-octopus made good bait.
Roughley says (page 172): —
Approaching a group of pandanus-
trees we see what appear in the dis-
tance to be large pineapples sus-
pended from their branches .... It
has been responsible for the name
“screw-pine” being frequently applied
to the tree, the term “screw” being
derived from the arrangement of the
leaves .... The fruit .... is often
referred to in northern Australia as
“breadfruit” because of the fact that
the aborigines frequently pounded it
to make a “bread” of dough-like con-
sistency.
Serventy says (page 3): —
Often called the screw-pine because
of the arrangement of the leaves,
the first sight of a tree will make it
quite clear how appropriate the name
is. The very attractive pineapple-
looking fruit was used by the natives
for making bread.
Roughley says (pages 71, 72 and
73):
The journey over the sand is a most
laborious one The tracks left
in the sand are highly characteristic
.... Having arrived at the summit
of the beach, well above the limit of
the tide, the turtle at once sets about
building her nest .... With a vig-
orous scooping of the front flippers
the sand is thrown back and it is then
shovelled behind the turtle by means
of the hind flippers .... The task
now completed, the turtle makes
back to the water.
Serventy says (page 62): —
Laboriously pulling her way up
from the water she leaves a broad
trail on the sand. Above high-water
mark she searches for a suitable spot
and starts digging, the front flippers
shovelling and the back removing
.... This job over, the sand is
shovelled back and the turtle heads
for the water and safety.
Roughley says (page 85): —
As we roam amongst the coral our
attention will probably be drawn to
a shell that moves over the bottom
at an uncommonly fast pace ; real-
ising that all the shellfish we are
familiar with crawl very slowly ....
Serventy says (page 33): —
Most molluscs are very sedate
creatures, moving about with a dig-
nity which is a rebuke to modern
speed. However at times a shell
will be seen moving at quite unshell-
like pace.
Roughley says (pages 149 and
150): —
While on the subject of extremes,
we may as well consider the laziest
fish on the reef, the sucker-fish ....
It seems probable, indeed, that when
pulled backwards the fish is quite
unable to let go. The sucker-fish
was well known to the ancients . . „ .
Serventy says (page 43): —
Another extraordinary fish ....
is the sucker-fish. The strongest
backward pull will fail to remove it,
though the fish by moving forward is
able to release its grip. To the
ancients these fish were well
known ....
Roughley says (page 163):
The dugong, seen by sailors
languishing in a tropical sea on a
moonlight night, perhaps clasping a
baby to its breast, has run riot with
the imagination of the more impres-
sionable of them but a glance at
the dugong’s face .... would indi-
cate that these adventurers were
gifted with an imagination quite be-
yond the ordinary, for the face of
the dugong is calculated to dispel
the ardor of the most love-sick sea-
man —at least, when the sun rises in
the morning.
Serventy says (page 67): —
The mother clasps the baby with
the short flippers and when resting on
the surface with a youngster clasped
in her arms must have presented
a very human appearance. Obviously
however no sailor could have had a
close look at the mermaid’s face,
for by human standards at least a
dugong is frightfully ugly. Not to
another dugong of course.
It should be added that “Wonders
of the Great Barrier Reef” is amongst
the literature which Mr. Serventy re-
commends as “indispensable” to the
tourist.
Down in the Caves
One cave is very much like another
—a dank, messy place full of stalac-
tites, bats and dingbats—and it is
hardly to be expected that even M.
Norbert Casteret, the most celebrated
explorer of the underworld since
Dante, should be able to repeat with
the same force the astonishing revela-
tions of his first “Ten Years Under
the Earth.” In fact, as the sightseers
and press-photographers crowd upon
him, his books have become pro-
gressively thinner and more journalistic.
If The Descent of Pierre Saint-
Martin (Dent) is a little better than
some of its predecessors it is still rather
padded, and once again there are the
tourists and the newspapermen to
destroy that dark and beautiful privacy
in which one feels that cave-exploring,
of all the journeys upon earth, should
surely take place. It is disconcerting
to learn that M. Casteret wears the
motto, printed large across the jacket
of his overalls, “Nox Illuminatio Mea”;
and that, before he descends to the
depths, strapped tightly in his nylon
parachute-harness with his head pro-
tected by an enormous spherical flying-
helmet interlined with glass fibre, mass
is said upon the mountainside in such
a blaze of publicity:—
Journalists, photographers and
camera-men had been waiting
impatiently for several days, accus-
ing us of wasting their time. Now
they had plenty to do ; for I doubt
whether a pontifical high mass was
ever the object of so much interest
as was that Sacrifice on the moun-
tainside, whose music was the whirr
of cameras. The congregation was
a strange assortment of French,
Belgian, Spanish and Italian spele-
ologists ; of local shepherds, Basque
muleteers, police, carabiniers, and
even some airborne troops from
Pau, who had come to collect their
parachutes.
Still, a cave is a cave; and Pierre
Saint-Martin, which lurks high in the
Pyrenees on the confused borderland
between France and Spain, was the
deepest known pothole in the earth
(2389 ft.: Puits Berger in France has
since been explored to 2954 ft.) when
Casteret and his companions got to
the bottom of it in 1953; and an
exquisitely nasty spot it is to read
about, particularly when it roars:—
These masses of rock, sometimes
as much as 100 and 130 feet high,
litter the whole floor. As they pile
up they are constantly altered in
shape by the overwhelming fury of
the torrent which undermines, dis-
locates and carries them away.
Whereas most caves impress one
with a sense of age-long calm, of
immobility, of serenity, here the feel-
ing is quite different. This place is
still in process of formation, in a
state of continuous unrest.... Every
peal of thunder was amplified by the
acoustic properties of the shaft,
making the whole place vibrate; and
this dreadful uproar was increased
by the noise of falling stones
Alone, rolled up in my sleeping-bag,
I could still hear within me those
subterranean avalanches hurtling
downward.
One of M. Casteret’s tasks in Pierre
Saint-Martin was to bring up, in a
special metal coffin, the body of his
friend Loubens, who was buried there
when he died after a fall in 1952. For
diversion, besides following the cave
as far down into France as he could,
and as far up the other way into Spain,
he caught beetles. There were also a
myriapod, and a type of large mos-
quito which, from lack of exercise,
seemed to be evolving, or degenerating,
into a species without wings.
The Pierre Saint-Martin story is fol-
lowed by a set of essays and reminis-
cences, covering more-or-less familiar
ground but always likely to bring some
fresh marvel to the eyes in the shape
of a prehistoric drawing of a “roaring
lion,” or strange facts about bats—
they can find their way home when
taken as far as 187 miles away—or
stalactitlc “ribbons” so fine and strong
that they can be tied into knots, or
nests of crystalline “cave-pearls” which
are formed when concentric layers of
calcite wrap themselves round a grain
of sand in a subterranean whirlpool—
M. Casteret has a necklace of them.
Prize for Plays
This year the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board will not stage a competition of
its own hut will take-over the judging
of a competition organised by the
Journalists’ Club, Sydney: £250 first-
prize and £5O second-prize for full-
length stage-plays “written by
Australians or persons residing in Aus-
tralia.”
The Journalists’ Club has decided to
give £3OO annually in awards for Aus-
tralian paintings, literature or music,
and this drama-prize is the first-fruit
of that decision. The Elizabethan
Theatre Trust is to “give considera-
tion” to outstanding entries. Closing
date is September 30. Details from the
Journalists’ Club, 166 Phillip-street,
Sydney.
Loot and Loyalty: Jerzy Pietrkie-
wicz (Heinemann). Pietrkiewicz, a
Pole writing in English, thinks
and writes almost in the manner
of a long folk-story and his world is
a dark and superstitious Slavic world,
a place not a little puzzling because the
author simply states it without ever
coming out of his period to interpret.
The central character is an extra-
ordinary Scotsman, Tobias Hume, who
actually lived, although little is known
of him other than a curious petition
that he presented to the English Parlia-
ment in 1642, and two books of musi-
cal compositions which survive. Hume
was a mercenary soldier in Poland,
and this book imagines him as being
connected with a weird event in
Russian history—in 1606 a pretender
to the Tsarist throne known as the
“false Dmitri” had been killed, and a
second claimant, known as “the second
false Dmitri,” was put forward. This
man’s origins are apparently vague and
of great popularity as a source of
Polish literature. Here Hume is sup-
posed to be one of the instruments of
his rise and an attendant at his fall.
“Loot and Loyalty” would not be
everyone’s choice, but it has a rich and
compelling flavor all its own.


; .
9
: . >,
DIAL 80951, ASK FOR T O.P.S;
- ' ,< - ' . \
STSER
BREAKFA
VED
AM
«0
m
'/A
'/A
TH
SKK*
lH
•'
*■•::■ -v-j
m
%
m
: - : :':
mmm
: ' ' :
M
1
':■ :■■:
V*** 8 -
— r
wm
mm
m
zm
m
■s
v«
u
m:s
■ma
m
man-tailored loah . . .
The fashion of first importance in your Winter wardrobe
is the man-tailored costume it’s a basic-classic that stays
in fashion year in, year out. You can dress it
up or down with so* many accessories and
always be perfectly turned out. Of course, your
perfectly proportioned, perfectly balanced costume
must be individually tailored to your special
measurements by Anthony Horderns’ expert
tailors. Choose from our very latest fashion
shades: Charcoal Green, Charcoal Blue,
Charcoal Grey, Anthracite, Gunmetal,
, American Slub designs. Also
Birdseye and Junior Navy.
Priced from £l9/19/-. Country visitors!
Call in to our Tailoring Department; make
your selection; be measured and fitted before you return
to the country. Of course, we make up your own material.
Tailoring Dept., Ground Floor, George St. Box 2712, G.P.O.
Did you hnow that: A.H 9 s dry
clean your clothes in 48 hours
We specialise in Showerproofing, silk finishings, pleating, household
furnishings, loose covers, curtains, etc. Our new Truclean process
restores the original colours and texture to all garments.
.4
JK
CSS
ING
TRUTH IN ADVERTI
nthony
m
0
3
\n\o
<o
=lT^=
Mid you hnow that: AM 9 s Clothes
Hospital repairs 9 invisibly mends
We repair, invisibly mend, alter, re-fit, re-line men’s suits, ladies’
costumes, ladies’ and men’s coats. Charges are moderate. We
also re-condition ■ leather jackets and coats within 14 days.


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3970
Wednesday, March 14, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE WORLD v. COMMUNISM
ON the face of its public announcements, Seato
does not seem to have got far at its Karachi council-
meeting. As was pointed out in “The Bulletin” when
it was formed, it is ultimately likely to fail in its
purpose because it is geographically a sectional
organisation dealing with a question which has
world application. It was hampered in the be-
ginning by the Americans’ reluctance to admit the
United Kingdom to discussions of Pacific Ocean
security because they had decided that the East
Asian question was their own preserve. They were,
of course, compelled to change their tune in that
matter; but now, with the United Kingdom in, the
confusion is worse confounded because of differences
of viewpoint as to what should be immediately
done.
There is no doubt about the ultimate objective
of Communism. The talk about the ditching of
Stalinism, the restoration of Trotsky to the Olympus
of the Kremlin, the tolerance newborn, the abolition
of one-man dictatorship is mere smokescreen tend-
ing to hide the ugly fact that Communism is still
Communism and that its goal is exactly what it has
always been. Every philosophical statement,
every elucidation of theory, every voiced aspiration
ended in Stalin’s day with the interpretive words,
“according to the doctrines of Marxism-Leninism.”
These words, Stalin or no Stalin, are still part of
the Moscow formula. And they mean exactly
what they meant from the death of Lenin onwards.
The truth of the situation and about Soviet
Union aims, as Mr. R. G. Casey pointed out in
Parliament a few days ago, and Mr. Dulles did at
Karachi, is to be found in Krushchev’s speech to
the Supreme Soviet on December 29 last: —
If certain politicians think that our confidence
in the victory of Socialism, in the teachings of
Marxism-Leninism, is a violation of the Geneva
spirit, they obviously have an erroneous notion
of that spirit. They ought to remember, once
and for all, that we have never gone, and never
will go, back on our ideas, on our struggle for the
victory of Communism. They need never expect
any ideological disarming on our part.
And there is no doubt about what Marxism-
Leninism, which in its pure form the Kremlin pro-
poses to follow religiously, says about the ultimate
objective. To quote from the official edition of
Lenin’s works (“War Programme of the Proletarian
Revolution”):
- Only after we have overthrown, finally
vanquished, and expropriated the bourgeoisie
of the whole world, and not only of one
country, will wars become impossible ....
Only after the proletariat has disarmed The
bourgeoisie will it be able, without betraying
its world historical mission, to throw all arma-
ments on the scrapheap ; the proletariat will
undoubtedly do this, but only when this con-
dition has been fulfilled, certainly not before.
The emphasis is that of Moscow.
The current talks of peace with the capitalist
Powers is merely a line. That is not, in fact, what
Moscow says it aims at, for it uses its jargon with
nice distinctions. It speaks of the possibility of
peace with the peoples of capitalist countries, not
with capitalist Governments.
It is a fixed tenet of Marxism-Leninism that
world peace can only be attained by armed destruc-
tion of governments and classes opposed to Com-
munism throughout the, globe; and that no peace
can be attained until the overall conquest
has been obtained and the “proletariat” (Com-
munist-led) can feel safe in disarming because there
is nobody left to fight.
On this basis, as Mr. f Paul Hasluck has
pointed out, peace is a world issue and must be
tackled on a world basis. Litvinov put it in another
way when he said that “peace is indivisible.”
Yet it is quite clear from the formation of
regional bodies like Seato and what has gone before
that the opposition to Communism in the world is
anything but indivisible.
A few days before the Seato meeting in Karachi
opened, a British White Paper on defence expressed
the United. Kingdom’s view of the overall inter-
national situation, in terms very similar to those
used by Mr. Casey in Parliament on February 22.
It was written that “there is no change in Soviet
long-term policy which, fundamentally, aims at
world domination.”
But the statement then goes on to claim that
with the hydrogen-bomb available as a deterrent,
“the likelihood of global war has decreased,” and
that “the main threat to our freedom and security
will come from an intensification of the cold-war
in all areas susceptible to Communist penetration,
and our forces must be prepared against the out-
break of limited wars.”
Mr. Dulles also agrees as to what Mos-
cow’s ultimate aims are. He supported Mr. Casey’s
view by saying that whenever the Communists of
Moscow could “they have swallowed up their
neighbors or subjugated them”; had, in fact
“annexed territory comprising all or parts of 10
States, also made 10 States into virtual colonies
ruled by international Communism.” He, too,
agrees with the United Kingdom that the cold-war
is the thing of the moment. So does Mr. Casey,
who puts the joint viewpoint more clearly than any
of them averring (1) that there is not much chance
of a global nuclear war breaking-out in the early
future ... so long as the democratic countries can
demonstrate that they are both able and willing to
fight; (2) that the Communists have abandoned, for
the present at least, the pursuit of their ends by
military means and have now intensified their
attempts to spread their influence through propa-
ganda and subsersive and smooth diplomatic tech-
niques. Their methods are to “use fair words and
smiling faces to instil a comfortable and misleading
sense of security, calling for popular-fronts, co-
operation among men of forward-looking good-
will.”
What they are really engaged in is swamping
the West with sugared poison which is meant to
undermine the will to defend, to evaporate the fear
of Russian attack and to prepare the ground for
internal civil war led by a Communist vanguard,
weaken the West and for full-scale world-war when
the time comes to strike.
There is, as all agree, what Mr. Casey calls a
peace “founded on a balance of terror, a fragile
thing,” at the mercy of mistakes and miscalcula-
tions of the kind which have precipitated wars
before.
Nevertheless, it is a condition of affairs with
which the Russians and Communist Chinese are
perfectly content. They are play with
fire in the troubled areas of the world, to incite the
Arabs, the Greeks, the Indians and the Indonesians
while at the same time keeping the international
temperature below flash-point. They are satisfied
to have a world stalemate, with each side able
through nuclear weapons to wreck the other but
ostensibly afraid to start. They are content under
the umbrella of mutual fear to “bite-off such pieces
of the free world as they can without the risk of
producing full-scale retaliation.” Outside this
situation they would prefer, no doubt, that the
nuclear weapons should be abandoned by both sides,
because this would leave them at an immense ad-
vantage in trained manpower.
These are propositions which are, with slight
variations, universally accepted by the greater
Western Allies as being global in their implications.
It is a pity, therefore, that the nature of the de-
terrents is not more sharply global.
Organisations like Sea to‘tend to compartmen-
talise the application of Western strategy and to
exhibit publicly cracks in the unity of outlook of
the great Western Powers which the enemy can
exploit.
Arbitration Under Fire
WHEN, as reported in the press last week, Federal
Government members joined with the Opposition
in applauding some suggestions by P. J. Clarey,
M.H.R. for Bendigo and a former president of the
A.C.T.U., for improving the arbitration system,
this didn’t mean that the millenium was just around
the corner or even that the rival parties were in
complete agreement on this vital subject. Far from
it! There is still a very wide gap between Govern-
ment and Opposition thinking on the question of
amending the Arbitration Act, and this will no
doubt reveal itself in bitter exchanges before the
current session is over.
The real significance of the applause was that
it reflected the general feeling of all parties and
most sections of the community that something
will have to be done to make arbitration work more
smoothly—and—possibly more important still
more quickly. Government members had pro-
bably been made even more sensible of the necessity
for revision by the High Court ruling, given only
a few days earlier, that the Arbitration Court had
no power to impose penalties on those who dis-
obeyed its orders. The decision, given by a 4-3
majority of the High Court judges, held that the
Arbitration Court could not exercise judicial powers
as well as its arbitral function; under the Constitu-
tion judicial power must be independent of admini-
strative or legislative authority. However,
the penalty provisions are only one aspect of the
court’s powers to be attacked by parties under its
jurisdiction. Most authorities agree that some
change is necessary; they disagree quite consid-
erably on what the changes should be.
Towards the end of last year, with a view to
informing its members on the various viewpoints
of those advocating reform of the system, the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation arranged a series of
three lectures on the subject of arbitration. Lec-
turers were Albert Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.;
A. P. Aird, an industrial advocate who has often
represented employers in the court; M. M. Stewart,
for many years Industrial Registrar of the Arbitra-
tion Court and a conciliation-commissioner.
Mr. Monk summed-up his organisation’s views
on the shortcomings of the system by saying that it
had developed in a manner which was “too cumber-
some, too legalistic and too costly”:—
In the old days you could get a case heard
within a reasonable time. You could get a judg-
ment even without reasons being given for it at
the time. At least, the decision would be given
and it would settle the dispute. Now we have to
wait months and longer at times, not only for the
case to be heard, but also for the judgment to be
given; for example, the basic wage and the
40-hour case took over 15 months for the hearing
and then we had to wait some time for the
decision. That is the common procedure.
Costs and legalisms Mr. Monk tied together,
and the two were also bound up with delays. The
basic-wage case and the 40-hour week case had, he
said, cost the trade-union movement £lB,OOO. The
court would not see anyone except legal representa-
tives.
Mr. Monk referred briefly ,to union resent-
ment against the penalty-clauses—the matter was
then before the High Court —and also criticised
court-control of union-ballots and the power to de-
register a union. He felt that the Arbitration Court
should stick to the main questions of basic-wage,
annual leave, female rates of pay, and so on. The
conciliation-commissioner system had broken down
entirely due “to the pressure which has been exer-
cised by the Chief Judge in his four-monthly
conferences.”
The A.C.T.U. wanted to see a panel of con-
ciliation-commissioners established and a panel of
arbitrators, one of whom should be president; it
wanted a single judge of the High Court to hear
questions of law:—
What we have got to do is try to get back
to the original conciliation provisions of the
Arbitration Act and right back to the Constitution
itself and the Arbitration Act itself as originally
intended.
Mr. Aird said he felt there was a good case
for experimenting in the separation of the three
functions of the system—conciliation, arbitration
and enforcement. A conciliator, in his opinion,
inspired more confidence and had greater influence
if it was known that he would not at any stage be
in a position to impose his own solution on both
parties. Speed and informality should pe the key-
notes of conciliation, but there should l oe a chief
conciliator with power to direct other conciliators
to particular disputes or particular places.
As to arbitration, Mr. Aird said it was impor-
tant that where conciliation had failed, those who
were called upon to impose a solution by way of
an award “should not be saddled with the respon-
sibility of seeing that such awards are obeyed.”
He pointed out that it was Parliament which had
given the court power to command obedience of
its own awards and those of the commissioners.
The judges had quite properly regarded it their duty
to carry out the task imposed on them. The unions
had fallen into the error of believing that the court’s
determination to do this “indicated an attitude not
sympathetic to the union point of view”:—
You can believe that awards made by arbitra-
tors should be enforced, without believing that
those who make the awards should themselves be
compelled to enforce them.
He felt that this could be overcome by handing
over the task of enforcement to some other tribunal
of branch of the court; such an authority could also
deal with de-registration, disputed elections in
organisations and similar problems. As far as the
conciliation side of the Act was concerned, he did
not think much change was needed, but on the
arbitration side he favored hearings by a single
judge except where a judge desired discussion before
a full court. A right of appeal to a full court should,
however, be permitted in the interests of uniformity.
Mr. Stewart’s contribution to the series was in
the main an historical survey, but he refuted Mr.
Monk’s allegation that the Chief Judge exercised
any pressure on the conciliation-commissioners.
He said that the restrictions under which the arbi-
tration-system labored sprang from the Australian
Constitution itself and major alterations could
not be looked for unless the Constitution was altered
by referendum.
In any system of arbitration and conciliation
the most important thing is the goodwill of the
parties. The representatives of J?oth employers ana
employees have time and again professed their
willingness to co-operate, but the good intentions
expressed have not been translated into action
or, at any rate, have not produced results. Some
changes in the system are obviously necessary, but
what is more necessary still is an all-round willing-
ness to make the system work.


THE SHIP OF THE DESERT


PLAIN ENGLISH
End of the Count
Later counting in the N. S. Wales elec-
tion tended to relieve the harassed look
Cahill and his colleagues had been wear-
ing at the weekend after the poll. In
almost every seat which had been classi-
fied as doubtful in the first analysis later
votes favored “Labor” sufficiently to
dash the Opposition’s hopes. Postal
votes, which in the past had favored the
Liberal-C.P., have been banned since
McGirr’s day.
By Friday, Mudgee, North Sydney and
Young had been conceded to the Govern-
ment, and the Liberal candidate’s chances
in Concord and Ryde looked very slender.
In addition, Dubbo, earlier booked as a
Country-party win, was looking very
doubtful; Sullivan, the C.P. man, needed
about 87 per cent, of Liberal Magin’s
preferences —a proportion not usually
forthcoming. The Hartley seat, held by
an Independent Laborite in the last Parlia-
ment and expected to be taken by another
in this one, went instead to the official
“Labor” man J. H. Robson. On Sunday
,a final check gave “Labor” Ryde by 42
votes.
Upshot of all this is that “Labor” will
have a small majority in the new Parlia-
ment and will not have to rely on the
support of an Independent as McGirr’s
Government did in 1950—0 r even on the
unofficial Independent Clive Evatt. What
Cahill does to combat the threatened
palace-revolution is another matter.
With only one country seat, Armidale,
definitely wrested from “Labor” —though
Dubbo may still fall—it was inevitable
that the question of three-cornered con-
tests should come up again. The two
Opposition parties clashed in the “Labor”-
held seats of Dubbo, Liverpool Plains,
Monaro, Mudgee and Young. Monaro,
strongly held by J. W. Seiffert for many
years, was a forlorn hope, but the other
four were hoped-for gains. On Saturday
J. F. Dredge, secretary of the Country
party, criticised the Liberals for running
candidates and claimed that the Country
party would have won three of the seats
if permitted to have straight-out contests
with “Labor.” He said that the C.P.
campaign would have been more con-
centrated and the issues would have been
less confused if the Libs, had kept out.
On the other hand, the Liberals might
have been able to put more effort into
city borderline fights.
On the face of it, the Country party
seems to have a good case, but there is
another side to it. It can’t be assumed
that in a straightout fight all the votes
which went to Liberal candidates in the
disputed electorates on March 3 would
have gone to the Country party —the drift
of preferences should be sufficient
evidence of that. Moreover, argue the
advocates of the triangle, if two men go
campaigning against the sitting member
each must surely win away from him
some votes which the other would not
have picked up, and on distribution of
preferences some of these must stay with
the surviving challenger. This assumes
the two challengers don’t waste too much
time fighting each other.
The latest poll hasn’t done much to
clarify the position as regards future
elections. In Dubbo and Young the
Country party scored slightly more votes
than the Liberals, but in Mudgee the tally
was four to three in the Liberal candi-
date’s favor. Liverpool Plains gave two
votes to the C.P. for every one it gave
the Liberal. But recriminations won’t do
much good now. The Opposition parties,
though beaten again, should be able to
carry on their job in the new Parliament
with much more confidenece and spirit
than in the old one. Cahill’s men, on the
other hand, are back with their numbers
depleted, some thanking their lucky stars
to be back at all. Over them all hangs
the shadow of the party squabble and
the threat of the Federal A.L.P. “moving-
in” to N. S. Wales. It is a situation that
calls for unity between the. Opposition
parties.
Constitutional Committee
The Prime Minister told Parliament last
week that it is intended to get on as
quickly as possible with the reform of
the Constitution. This is to be done on
the widest lines that circumstances will
allow.
Mr. Menzies made it clear that the
review would not be restricted to con-
sideration of the relationships between
the two Houses of Parliament. It is pro-
posed that the all-party committee will
discuss economic powers, arbitration
powers and anything else which may
seem to require attention. One which
certainly needs discussion is the Govern-
ment’s authority to deal with subversion
and treason and to punish breaches of
Security.
In view of the universal agreement that
the Communist bloc is at present involved
in an attempt at world-conquest through
the cold-war, this needs the most urgent
attention.
With the growing liaison between
“Labor” and the Communists and the
latter’s steady return to power in the
big unions, the matter becomes more
important. Only recently Comrade
J. J. Brown, of the Central Committee
of the Communist party, who was re-
turned to a secretarial office at the last
Victorian elections on a joint A.L.P.-
Communist ticket, became Federal presi-
dent of the A.R.U., and his election was
followed by a decision to send a delega-
tion to Peking for May Day celebra-
tions at the expense of the union’s
members.
The Government is not taking on a
minor job in approaching the question
of reforms. When Mr. Menzies dis-
cusses the numerical strength of the all-
party committee with Dr. Evatt, as he
unfortunately feels that he will have
to do, he will find himself faced with an
attitude that will scarcely be co-opera-
tive. Dr. Evatt’s attempt to “reform”
the Constitution in 1942-4 was a masked
attempt to turn Australia into a totali-
tarian dictatorship. An all-out bid will
now be made to have “reforms” adopted
in line with “Labor’s” Hobart Confer-
ence programme.
The Commonwealth will also face
opposition by the wilting and discredited
States which have been declining in repu-
tation, solvency, honesty and general
political standards since they have become
the plaything of the type of “Labor”
Government of which the Theodore,
McGirr and Cahill Administrations have
been fair samples.
Mr. Playford, Liberal Premier of S.A.,
has been the first to spund-off on the
Senate question. He says that any move
to wipe the Senate out or curtail its
powers will be met with “instant opposi-
tion from every part of the Common-
wealth.” He holds that what is
the matter with the Senate is that
it has ceased to be a States House,
is “on the wrong foot” and too
much concerned with, party politics. He
demands that it should get back to its
“basic position and to its proper role”
and see “that the development of all the
States and Australia as a whole proceeds
—not just the big cities and larger centres
of population.”
This country can go forward only under
a Federal system; not under a system
under which two large cities would have
more representation than the whole of the
States. That is what will happen if the
powers of the Senate are curtailed.
Unfortunately, that is what does happen
under the present system of caucus gov-
ernment which both sides of the Parlia-
ment practise. The existing Senate does
what it is told by majorities in party
meetings which are dominated in numbers
by House of Representatives.
The Senate is the primary question to
be dealt with in Constitutional reform.
It seems, in the light of the facts and
the feeling and rights of the States
within the Federation, that the commit-
tee which considers the Constitution
should be not an all-party committee, but
a non-party one on which the States
and elements outside politics are
represented.
Seato at Karachi
The Karachi Conference openly displayed
some differences. There seemed indeed
to be a wide disparity between the view
of the British and European countries as
to the functions of Seato, which was
originally intended to produce co-opera-
tion in the physical defence of Pacific and
Indian Ocean, Asian and Australasian
countries. But now stress is' laid on its
political and economical purposes, and
its U.S. member seems somehow to have
placed physical defence in a secondary
position and to be contemplating invasion
of the fields of U.N.O. and the Colombo
Plan. . .
Mr. Dulles wishes to develop an anti-
communist propaganda inside South-
East Asia which will “not merely help
deter armed aggression” but “help mem-
bers combat subversion and develop
wholesome societies, immune from Com-
munist infection.”
Since this can scarcely be done without
interference with internal politics of
countries affected, it is a programme to be
avoided like the plague. It goes far
beyond anything contemplated in the
charter of Seato, which clearly envisaged
the viewpoint expressed by Mr. Selwyn
Lloyd—that the organisation was formed
to provide a “framework of stability
within which the peoples of South-East
Asia can work out their own destiny on
a basis of self-help and mutual aid. It
goes so far, in the very delicate position
in which the West stands to India, Burma,
Pakistan, Indonesia and other countries,
as to alienate neutrals who are not mem-
bers and increase difficulties with China.
Australia should think very carefully
before agreeing to go to lengths which
might involve it in original action and the
internal politics of several touchy coun-
tries and impose on the Australian tax-
payers more financial obligations to help
other —sometimes not very friendly—
Asian nations which economic circum-
stances may make it difficult for us to
carry out,
Anything that is done should not be
done, in any case, in Asian or other
compartments. It is time that Nato
changed its name and took on a world
complexion. The ability of the Soviet
intriguers abroad to divide the world
and to deal with zones and regions—
Eastern Europe, China, Indo-China,
India and Burma, and the Arab States
one at a time and set up stresses within
them while immobilised and stagnant, has
been the basis of Communist success.
Communism can only be handled on a
world, capital-to-capital basis. Until
that is realised all the success will be on
the wrong side. Every advance of Com-
munism should be a world issue.
Wasted Time >
“In the ACT”: Not for the first time,
the spotlight has been thrown on the
casual belief of Australians that they
can loaf themselves into continued pros-
perity, that to waste the boss’s time is
clever, and that there’s no need for the
boss himself to make sure that his busi-
ness is using labor efficiently or that
costs are being reduced to a minimum
by using labor-saving techniques, mech-
anisation, and effective work-methods and
planning.
The Ministry of Labor advisory
council, which comprises both sides of
industry, issued its report on the subject
without dissent, and the Minister said in
the House later that there was no dis-
tinction in their comments as between
employer and employee. It was an un-
happy commentary on the attitude to
work of far too many Australians that
the council felt it necessary to condemn
such dishonest and stupid practices as late
starting and early finishing (despite the
distinguished example of Charles Lamb),
progressive extensions of crib-time and
smokos, frequently encouraged tacitly by
slackness in supervision.
The council was told that union policy
was not opposed to legitimate efforts to
make the most effective use of available
labor, and that it would not condone
abuse by employees of conditions and
privileges. This may be so in principle,
but many employers have realised bitterly
in recent years that attempts to make
staffs work the hours for which they are
receiving high rates of pay might easily
result in their putting on their hats and
going across the road to rival establish-
ments. The attitude has been that a
lazy or inefficient employee is better than
none at all, and that the customer can be
made to pay in the long run. The time
has now arrived when many overseas
customers are refusing to pay for goods
produced at such inflated cost, and when
Australian buyers, too, are starting to
look at each side of a fiver before spend-
ing it.
Some employees have a very fair sense
of their responsibilities, and are aware
that the firm’s prosperity and the nation’s
prosperity are interdependent, and that
their own prosperity depends on both.
Some way of bringing this truth home
to all workers, if possible without the
loss and bitterness inflicted by actual un-
employment, seems essential if many of
our industries are to survive the coming
year of two when all belts will have to
be tightened. Management-employee
consultation and co-operation can be a
great help, especially if it is supplemented
by some accurate information on trends
in particular industries throughout Aus-
tralia and perhaps abroad.
Most workers are willing to do a fair
day’s work, but many have been cor-
rupted by the lazy example of some of
their fellows, especially the younger
generation which has never had to look
hard for a job or work hard to keep it.
Financial incentives help in some cases,
and could help in more, but are not
always applicable or acceptable. The
mental attitude to work itself is the
major factor: the recognition that a man
who loafs on the job is robbing both his
employer and himself as surely as the
thief who opens the safe and grabs the
pay-envelopes.
British Army Changes
The presentation of the British Army
Estimates to P&liament foreshadows
radical changes not only in the United
Kingdom forces —and armaments —but
in Australia, where some heavy thinking
needs to be done (and probably is being
done) about the internal construction of
divisions.
In changes which are in progress in
the U.K. insistence is both on the
need to consider the implications of
“atomic warfare” and the equal need to
realise that it doesn’t mean “push-
button warfare,” but merely warfare with
a longer reach in the field, more mobility,
more elasticity and greater fire-power.
The main thing which atomic weapons
and guided-missiles are likely to do to
ground-warfare is to increase the range
of artillery attack. The U.S. “Corporal”
ground-missile, for instance, has a range
of 75 miles, with the hitting-power of a
very heavy gun indeed, and—theoretic-
ally—pin-point accuracy when attacking
concentrations, which are its most econo-
mical target in the kind of warfare that
can be expected, if the concentrations
wait to be hit.
As Mr. Head, British Minister for War,
pointed out, however, atomic weapons
were not intimate weapons. Despite its
immense hitting-power any atomic
weapon is cumbersome to handle and
can’t stop infiltration and the closing-in
of dispersed forces. The ultimate battle,
as at Troy, must be fought at close
quarters and with normal but continually
developing weapons with which the
modem army is usually trained —rifles,
mortars, machine-guns, grenades.
Britain’s experimental cadre is its four
Regular divisions in Germany, and the
manner in which these are being reorgan-
ised exhibits a picture of the shape of
things to come.
The basic aim is to make each division
integral and self-supporting both in
fighting-power and movement, t
The Rhine force at present consists
of the 6th, 7th and 11th Armored
Divisions and the 2nd Infantry Division.
One of the armored divisions will dis-
appear in process of the rebuilding of
the general divisional structure, which
provides for the organisation of infantry
divisions into three brigade-groups, each
with its own armor and artillery, and
the armored divisions into four armored
regiments with an attached infantry bat-
talion and an extra infantry brigade, pro-
bably trained for special parachute tasks,
though the exact nature of the reorgani-
sation of armored formations is not
yet settled.
The new infantry division is designed
to operate on up to a normal 15-mile
front, but with power to concentrate
swiftly to hold ground or to integrate
itself with larger bodies.
Nothing has been said-about the re-
organisation of the Reserve Army, but no
doubt it will be in consonance with the
running-down of the Regular Army, which
is to be reduced by 30,000 this year and
by a total of 60,000 by 1958. There is to
be a major effort to weed-out non-
effectives which have been increasing by
leaps and bounds during the past few
years.
An inquiry is being held, with the Vice-
Chancellor of Reading University in the
chair, into the manner in which National
Service men are employed on routine
duties. It is hoped to eliminate wastage
on traditional tasks of no military value,
while modem labor-saving devices are
being introduced into military life in the
U.K., years after they have come into
use in other countries, to cut down man-
power needs.
Whatever can be done to cut down
wastage in manpower and to increase the
proportion of fighting-men to “tail” in
units is certainly needed, as is shown
by the fact that only now have a million
trainees passed through National Service
after nearly a decade of operation of the
system.
Russia alone, in the Communist bloc,
inducts 2,000,000 every year.
Cyclone Agnes—and "Hams"
Cyclone Agnes, in a solid mass of wind
and rain comingled, burst in across the
sea and fell upon the North Queensland
coast. Rivers rose with the torrential
rain, gouged telephone- and telegraph-
lines from their moorings, snapped them
like string. It was one of the States
worst breakdowns of comtnunications;
the P.M.G. has no radio-links to com-
plement its northern land-lines.
In a small, cluttered room beneath a
house-on-stilts in the Brisbane suburb of
Red Hill, Edwin White —known to radio-
hams over the world as VK4EW sat
before his transmitter, thumbed a Morse
{Continued on next page)


key, and spoke to his ether-mate, Norm
Casey, of VK4NT in Mareeba. White is
normally a watch-supervisor in the
communication section of the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation. With him, loaned
by the P.M.G., was Clive Cooke, “ham”
(amateur) himself as well as expert
telegraphist.
On this tenuous link they got to work,
sending an average of 350 telegrams and
other messages a day. Opening for busi-
ness at 8 a.m., closing down after mid-
night each day, Casey and a couple of
P.M.G. men received the Brisbane offer-
ings, distributed them to Cairns, thence
all over the Atherton Tableland. Again
the amateurs, devoted enthusiasts, had
proved their worth in a national disaster.
Hams are forbidden to send messages
for third parties, or any message for
money or payment in kind ; items of an
advertising nature; social or political
propaganda \ and are not allowed to com-
municate, except in the “Case of disaster
or extreme emergency,” with stations
other than amateur wireless-stations.
Well, vicious Agnes was both disaster
and emergency. In Canberra Treasurer
Fadden said that the Government would
install, with the least delay, its new radio-
network to cover Eastern Australian
flood-areas. That was a year ago. In
Canberra the other day the P.M.G.
admitted that the department “had not
got down to the detailed planning for
Queensland yet.” So hams filled-in the
gap —again.
Unfortunately, for point-to-point trans-
missions and receptions, you must have a
ham in the point you wish to contact.
Casey, luckily, was waiting with VK4NT.
Which surely hammers the point of
Queensland amateurs—they need encour-
agement and help to increase the present
300 operators.
They have an unanswerable case.
Many of the radio-operators who joined
the services early in War 11, when there
was a dearth of trained men, were hams ;
many of the northern air-radio stations
were manned by brother-enthusiasts.
And hams, by virtue of their wide-flung
listening-in and their self-equipped work-
rooms, are peculiarly adept at receiving
messages under adverse conditions of
static interference. Professional trans-
mitters are used to copying on well-
defined, clear channels.
What the Brisbane fraternity want is
some assistance to build, or take-over, a
small hut on a vacant allotment; some
tangible recognition of their worth and
potentiality. Then a cadre of enthusiastic,
self-reliant expert operators could be
built-up. There is nothing else they ask
for —the equipment, and the enthusiasm,
are there, crackling to go.
POLITICAL POINTS
Bereft of office and authority, the
Parliamentary under - secretaries have
been a small, cheerless group in the new
Parliament. The Prime Minister said last
week that he had been considering the
problem, but had not had a chance yet
of bringing it before Cabinet.
9 . 9
N. S. Wales Labor Council, from which
the Cahill Government gets its orders, has
banned “Herald,” “Sun” and “Telegraph”
and “Sun-Herald” reporters from its
meetings on the grounds that those
papers indulged in “an unwarranted and
biased abuse of the freedom of the press”
during the election campaign. Trade-
unionists are being asked to refrain from
buying the last-named three papers.
The morning “Granny” is apparently
exempted from the second ban —and no
wonder! After all, to ask a bloke to
forgo his racing-supplements is placing
too great a strain on his loyalty. But isn’t
the council taking rather a risk on the
“Telly’s” Joe Palooka?
A.J.A. president George Godfrey, in
opposing the move, described it as
juvenile. The action itself may be child-
ish, but the state of mind it reveals is
worse than that. It is symptomatic of
Looks as if the skeletons are safe for
another three years—or at least for the
present.
• ©
Barring the unexpected, the state of
parties in the next N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment will be “Labor,” 49; Independent
“Labor,” 1 ; Liberals, 27 ; Country party,
16 ; Independent, 1.
The “unexpected” includes the possi-
bility of F. J. Cahill (“Labor”) getting
less than 10 per cent, of the preferences
in Young and of Mutton (Liberal) getting
more than 24 per cent, of Communist
preferences in Concord. In North Sydney
29 per cent, of Communist Wood’s prefs.
went to the Liberal candidate, but this
high figure was probably due to many of
Wood’s supporters taking the easy course
of voting up the card. In Concord any
such accidentals would fall “Labor’s”
way. Dubbo is anyone’s seat.
“Labor” had some very narrow escapes.
R. S. Maher retained North Sydney by
323 votes after distribution of Communist
preferences. F. G. Downing sneaked
home in Ryde by 42 —with a possible
appeal to the Court of Disputed Returns
pending. Mudgee and Young also
be very close.
The dispute in Ryde concerns a batch
of 42 electoral-visitor votes which were
disallowed because the elector-visitor had
initialled instead of signing them. Of
these, 38 are said to have been cast for
the Liberal candidate and four for
“Labor.” If the figures are correct the
seat would still go to “Labor” even if
the votes were admitted, but there seems
to be a case for inquiring into the circum-
stances of the recording of these votes.
Electoral-visitor vote is a device intro-
duced by McGirr when he abolished
postal voting.
© ©
Eddie Ward has now been in Parlia-
ment 25 years—and except for the very
new members, every man in the Reps,
knows his speech off by heart.
e ©
The long-talked-of all-party Parlia-
mentary committee to review the Consti-
tution is to be set up soon. Menzies told
the Reps, on Thursday that discussion
won’t be limited to the relationship be-
tween the two Houses, but will include
the Commonwealth’s economic and arbi-
tration powers.
So far, so good! But it’s to be hoped
the committee is merely a preliminary
canter. Before any actual changes are
put to the people the States must be
called into conference —also representa-
tives of industry, commerce and other
interests.
• •
Nigeria’s House of Representatives
has been given a ceremonial mace of gold
and silver by the U.K. branch of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Associa-
tion. Why not allow Speaker Archie
Cameron time off to visit Lagos to show
them how to use it?
• •
When Dr. Coombs, governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, was prosecuted for
starting a bushfire in Kuring-gai Chase
during a danger period (plea, guilty ; fined
£5) he was represented in court by solici-
tor W. C. Taylor. Taylor was a Chifley
appointment to the Commonwealth Bank
board in 1941, and, on the abolition of
the old board by Chifley, to the Airlines
Commission. Who's Who In Australia
(1947) says he “was largely responsible
for reorganising Labor party in N.S.W.,
resulting in return of McKell Labor Gov-
ernment and increased strength of
Federal Labor party in that State in
1943.”
8 •
When a Melbourne magistrate dis-
missed a charge against a motorist on the
grounds that the 30 m.p.h. speed-limit
was invalid he started something, but
speed-fiends who take his ruling as an
invitation to an open-go will strike
trouble. Police will continue to book
motorists who exceed the limit, but no
prosecutions will be launched pending
the decision. In any case, new legisla-
tion is contemplated which will define
more clearly the intention of the
regulations.
THE NEW NURSE
the same intolerance of criticism that
crops up again and again in the N. S.
Wales Government and its associates —
the sort of thinking that inspired the Press
Gag Act.
e ©
Victoria will resist any move' for a
higher petrol-tax, Premier Bolte told the
Municipal Association last week. His
argument is that it would only mean that
Victorian motorists would be paying for
works in other States.
© •
A Progress Association at Surfers’
Paradise objects to the name “Town of
the South Coast” now imposed on the
beach resort. They claim it is clumsy
and uninspiring, and they want it altered
to “Gold Coast.” They can’t be blamed
for complaining about the official name,
which is just as bad as “City of the Blue
Mountains.” But the name they propose
offends in another way; it is too preten-
tious. So, for that matter, is Surfers’
Paradise.
• ©
During the N. S. Wales election cam-
paign Cahill plugged the theme that
Morton would be a “yes-man” for
Menzies if he became Premier. It hasn’t
worked out that way with Bolte, the
Liberal Premier south of the Murray.
The Victorian Government is still push-
ing on with its uniform-tax appeal and
Bolte’s latest pronouncement on Federal-
State relationships is:
While I am Premier of Victoria I will
not enter into any new agreement on finance
with the Commonwealth, because Victoria
always gets the thin end of the stick.
And anyone who thinks Tom Play ford
is a yes-man had better have another
think.
9 9
Bitterly annoyed, Eddie Ward last
y/eek described the Labor Advisory
Council’s report on productivity as
“something out of Alice in Wonderland.”
Harold Holt thereupon reminded him
that the council included several senior
executives of the A.C.T.U., and that the
report (with its advocacy of co-operation
to achieve higher rewards for both sides
of industry) was unanimous. Eddie
grunted, “We’ll check that.”
• •
„ N.S.W. Opposition party-chiefs and
prophets who based their hopes in the
doubtful seats on the assumption that
absent votes would favor their candidates
had not studied the records very closely.
At the 1953 election there were 2038
absent, electoral-visitor and section votes
recorded in the Concord electorate. Of
these 1025 went to “Labor” and 1013 to
Liberal. Allowing for the swing, this
time the Libs, could expect a slight gain
from this source, but nothing spectacular.
In Ryde the figures at last election were
“Labor,” 1076; Liberal, 1004. In
country seats there was slightly more
justification for the assumption ; last time
Dubbo gave the Country party 1486
absents compared with “Labor” 1075;
Mudgee, 1384 and 1131 respectively. But
in Young, “Labor” had the edge—l3l4 to
1295.
• •
Hawke’s Westralian Government will
be the next to face the electors —polling-
day April 7. Sixteen of the 50 Assembly
seats are uncontested and 86 nominations
have been received for the remaining 34
seats. “Labor” emerged from the 1953
election with a bare majority after
appointing a Speaker, but this disappeared
at the Bunbury by-election late last year,
leaving Government and Opposition with
25 seats each.
• •
The Doc. told a meeting of the A.R.U.
executive in Melbourne that the “Labor”
party was doing its best to prevent a
“deliberately manufactured crisis in Aus-
tralia.” That’s rather a change pf policy.
Ever since he assumed the lead of his
party Evatt has been rushing around
giving a very good imitation of a man
deliberately trying to manufacture a
crisis.
• •
Ceylon’s argument over the official
language or languages to be adopted has
developed into a first-class row, with the
Government fighting an election campaign
on the policy “that Sinhalese alone should
be made the State language of Ceylon.”
Some Tamil members have resigned from
the Government in protest against
exclusion of Tamil as a second official
language.
• •
“Wusslean”: Vic. Railways have
announced that punters travelling to
Traralgon for a race-meeting on March
20—a few days after the opening of a
new electrified line to Gippsland —will
have “an unusual electric train to ride
in: all cars will be air-conditioned, and
a dining-car will be attached.” Mel-
bourne commuters, who have been wait-
ing since the war for the long-promised
modern carriages to replace the 30- and
40-year-old rolling-stock on suburban
lines, are not likely to give three cheers
for the railways as the punters’ luxury-
train speeds past them.
Canberra has not yet decided whether
to allow the Soviet Antarctic vessel to be
serviced, if it wishes, in an Australian
port, and whether airport facilities will
be made available in W-A. or elsewhere
to Soviet planes making the long journeys
between Moscow and the Russian base
on Australian Antarctic territory. The
hesitation seems natural. Presumably
guarantees are being sought, just as they
will be sought, and enforced, if the Soviet
drops its back-door approach on re-estab-
lishment of a Red Embassy in Canberra
and makes a direct request on the subject.
• •
J. A. J. Hunter, M.H.R. for Maranoa
(Q.) from 1921 to 1943, writes in refer-
ence to an A.B.C. news-item quoted in
B. 29/2/’56, which spoke of Queensland
Liberal leader Morris as making clear the
Liberal-Country-party election-policy on
the 40-hour week:
How Mr. Morris can speak for the Country
party is a mystery. In the Queensland Parlia-
ment there are eight Liberals and 15 Country-
party members. In referring to the Opposition
as one party —sad to say also followed by some
C. men—the Libs, are thus xtot recognised
as a party at all. The Speaker took this
attitude when he refused to permit the Lib. leader
to bring into the House an outside secretary
and typist. The Premier said the Government
provided a secretary and' typist for the Leader
of the Opposition (Mr. Nicklin, of the C.P.).
Though the Country party in Queensland
has probably the b'est political machine in Aus-
tralia, owing to what seems to be going on
“underground” the “rank-and-filers” in the
country may wake up soon to find they have
no separate party but a quasi Lib.-C.P. with its
headquarters, as at present, in the Liberal
offices.
This will be a direct encouragement for a
host of Independent C.P. candidates to contest
the coming elections —and there is no preferen-
tial voting in Queensland! Triangular contests
—even where there is preferential voting—
always shows about 25 per cent, of C.P.
supporters who would sooner vote Labor than
Liberal.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A 17ft. carving of “The Man from
Snowy River” by Miss Wendy Soil-
ing has been erected in the Ashfield Hotel,
Sydney. Done in silky-oak and beaten
copper, the sculpture shows two drovers
(both dismounted) and a dog (also dis-
mounted), all in zigzag triangles and
curving swan-necks. It may, for all I
know, be a very ingenious piece of
modern design; but, though Paterson
swore the Man “never shifted in his seat,”
I rather think this would have shifted
him. —“Mac Hoots.”
“Rimutuka”: Brisbane, too, has its pie-
carts. In the fastnesses of the ’Gabba
dwells Charlie, and he maintains he’s the
only one of the fraternity to include
finger-bowls in his service—a horse-trough
near by. ,
♦>
“Wusslean”: The era lately predicted,
when “the bra. is exterior dress and
ornamentation,” may indeed be dawning.
My evening-paper carries a full-page ad.
in which a leopard-skin-clad caveman,
complete with club, peers anxiously in
the direction of the reader, exclaiming
in heavy type: “Where did she go? The
girl in the Holdem bra!” That’s all
right for cavemen, who never saw a bra.
before ; but what about us? —
Wear Holdem Bras morning, noon and
night, jjnd be showered with the prettiest
compliments, assured that Holdem is
making the most of your charm.
Well, Mrs. W. has declared roundly that
she’s hanged if she’s going to wear a bra.
under her nightie, but what ladies say,
and what they ultimately do, are two
very different matters.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“D.J.G.”: A penny will still buy a pre-
war pennyworth at Williamstown (Vic.),
where the fare for pedestrians on the
ferry-service across the Yarra is the same
as it was 26 years ago, when the service
opened. But as soon as the council gets
permission from the State Government —
probably in three months’ time—they’ll
go up 200 per cent, to a trey. It’s not
much, but it’s a start.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: The black-sashed members
of the South African Women’s Defence
of the Constitution League, passively re-
sisting the proposal to remove voters of
mixed blood from the electoral-rolls,
parade and take up posts in prominent
positions as a mark of silent reproach ;
but so far the South African campaign
has lacked the most deadly of all weapons,
humor. In New Zealand, during the dis-
putes which led to the second war against
the Pakeha, the Maori chiefs, finding that
the Government sent armed escorts to
protect their surveyors, ordered their
oldest, fattest and ugliest women to follow
the surveyors and their guards about and
make love to them. You can’t use a
theodolite, rods or chain when a 20st.
wahine has her arms around your neck
and is begging you to share her bed, nor
can you shoot or bayonet a woman just
because, although she is 60 years old,
she declares that you have won her heart
and proceeds to demonstrate her affection
“Always lovemaking in the shrubbery at dances, Annabelle —you'll
NEVER get your picture in the Sunday papers this Way!"
in a practical way. Of course, there may
be no old, stout, elderly or ugly women
in South Africa’s Defence of the Consti-
tution League.
»> ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: Further researches into
facial fashions indicate that mid-Victor-
ians coveted neither the “heart-shape”
of today nor the oval of yesteryear. In
1855 Tennyson described his Maud as
“the moon-faced darling of all.” A lover
who offered this bouquet to his Maud
nowadays would be more likely to be
kicked than accompanied into the garden.
+♦♦ ♦>
“J.E.8.”: As the train emerged from
Wynyard tunnel on Sydney’s North
Shore line a well-conditioned blue-cattle-
dog crept stealthily from beneath a seat,
gazed at me speculatively, then stowed
himself behind my legs. A ticket-inspec-
tor appeared, eyed Bluey’s exposed hind-
quarters, and asked: “Your dog?” I
said “No!” He said: “Hnimm,” stooped,
put his hand on Bluey’s lump. “Next
stop— l you,” he said sternly. Bluey, com-
ing into full view, sat on his stem and
volunteered to shake paws with the in-
“What makes you think he's one of our chaps ?”
spector. I felt certain that gentleman
flicked an eye at Bluey. “All right,” he
warned, “I’ll be back.” When I alighted
at my station so did Bluey. By the time
I reached the taxi-rank he was seated
beside one of the drivers. “Your dog?”
I asked. The man denied ownership.
“But I know him pretty well,” he added.
“He’s the greatest scaler on the North
Shore line and —never been booked.”
+l+ ❖
“X.Q.X.”: Near the great Moslem
mosque built on the traditional site of
Solomon’s temple is a small mosque
known as the Dome of the Chain. We
were told that in King Solomon’s time
lawsuits were heard here, and a golden
chain hung down from Heaven at the
spot. Each witness was required to hold
it as he gave his evidence, and if he lied
a link fell off the chain. The chain has
long since disappeared; sufficient proof,
no doubt, of the truth of the legend i and
no one who has studied reports of Aus-
tralian royal commissions on booze, or
Communism, or of divorce-cases, would
think it worth the trouble of installing in
our time.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Omen”: A variation of musical-
chairs was played at a special meeting of
the Teachers’ Federation Council urgently
called to discuss policy. Members of the
executive were so eager to participate
that each passed the chair to another. In
less than an hour there were four different
chairmen. First the president called on
the senior vice-president, who passed it
on to the junior. Being a lady, she
accepted, but bided her time till the debate
gave her a chance to intervene, when she
called on yet another executive-member
to take her place. Being a gentleman,
he complied. The motion finally
came from two members who'last held
office in 1952. My auguries foretell a
swing-back in their favor.
“Apemantus”: The police-radio an-
nouncer I sometimes listen to bitterly
added a personal racing-commentary to
an official message about the removal of
a dead horse from a city street. Said he:
“ and after the way they’ve been run-
ning this afternoon, it beats me why any-
one in this town is worrying/ about one
dead horse.”
♦> ❖ *
“Rimutuka”: Boarded a Brisbane city-
bound bus and tendered 2s. for a Is. fare.
Received ticket, but no change ; insisted
on the handing-over of my deener.
Arrived in the great metropolis and made
a 4s. 9d. purchase, for which I tendered
a £l-note. Back came change for 10s.
“I gave you one-pound,” says I. Miss
Behind-the-Counter fluffed her feathers
and prepared for battle. “One-pound,”
says I, firmly, “and the number is”—
quoting it; about the only time I’ve ever
noted the number of a note! A deflated
wench dubbed-up a half-note. Next stop
my two purchases came to Bs. “That will
be nine-shillings,” says the young lady.
By this time I was speechless, so just shook
my head and waited for the arithmetic
to be adjusted. Next I handed over 2s.
for a 9d. article and received 3d. change.
I thought it time to go home, before
I got used to the new arithmetic.
❖ ❖
“Mari’*: The twenty Italians kept shak-
ing their heads and talking in their own
lingo during the vacuum-cleaner demon-
stration. After 20 minutes of this panto-
mime the salesman, convinced he
wouldn’t make a sale, started to pack-up.
“What’s the idea?” asked the only Eng-
lish-speaking Italian. “Oh, I can see
they don’t intend to buy,” replied the
salesman. “Oh, no! You are so wrong;
they say they can’t do without it.”* And
five vacuum-cleaners changed hands.
* ❖ ❖
“J.E.M.”: Happened to switch on to
the A.B.C. Argonauts’ session; a talk on
the life of a famous modem artist. He
shared a Paris room with fellow-student;
both were so poor that they were unable
to furnish their room, so they painted
furniture on the walls. It would be a
good idea in Australia today, where most
of us can get the furniture, if only we
could paint a house around it.
+> *X+ *l*
“Circle”: Judging by the list of group-
nouns describing a group of ladies-of-the
town, the legal profession was npt repre-
sented at “Gyro-Joe’s” party (B.
22/2/’56). Or a friend of mine who
carries the white-man’s burden in Sydney s
Phillip-street would have added “a firm
of solicitors.”
♦> *
“M.R.”: I have seen Liberace’s piano-
shaped swimming-pool in Los Angeles
(B. 22/2/’56); also his cuff-links—large
and golden and adorned with piano-notes,
black and white. His huge car has a
dashboard like a piano-keyboard, the
various switches being black or white
piano-notes —all rather in the key of A
Minor, as one might expect from a
bobby-soxers’ ivory-basher.
❖
“Kia-Ora”: To that question as to
whether bowling is a young man’s game
the answer would seem to be Yes and
No (both emphatic). In the N.Z. Domin-
ion Championships the winning rink
hailed from Mangakino, a hydroelectric
township that didn’t exist six years ago.
The team’s lead, two and three were aged
34, 35 and 36, while the skip, was a
hoary-headed 38. Now look at the Cham-
pion Singles. This year’s title-winner was
E. H. Littlejohn, who retained his initial
two-lives intact when he ran out of
opponents —at the age of 74.
♦J I,
CRICKETERS and other summer
sporting-figures are being shouldered-
off the pages of Victorian newspapers.
Although summer has barely ended, the
Melbourne air is thick with rumors:
South is mustering its foemen, the Tigers
are sharpening teeth and claws, the
Demons are determined to prevent any
desertion from their ranks... A stranger
might well imagine that the city is
inhabited by a warlike set of tribes in-
tent on mutual extermination. Which is
not far from the truth: in a few more
weeks it will be prudent to sound-out
your neighbors’ loyalties before opining
in a railway-carriage. I regard such
exaggerated enthusiasm with tolerant
amusement early in the year, but by
August or September I’m solidly behind
the Cats, and miaowing like a bull. —
“Ardoyne.”
MR. RAY AT LARGE
I don’t want Johnny’s autograph
Or his pocket, sleeve or tie,
But admit he’s made me laugh
Singing “Cry /”
What, however, puzzles me
About his newest work of art
Is kis great anxiety
To depart.
Wheresoever he appears —
Stadium or Hippodrome —
Johnny tells us through his tears
He’s going home.
God forfend I should upset
A man already worried so,
Or seem to wish him gone —but yet
Why don’t he go?
All the day my house is wracked
By an imitative drone
In a newly- truly-cracked
Baritone.
I say to him, “My son, my son,
What’s this caterwaul about?
You are at home —if this keeps on
I’ll kick you out!”
And if you asked me, I should say
This situation might be found
The reason why poor Johnny Ray
Still roams around.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T MANAGE a pharmacy within sight of
the Supreme Court. One of our most
important duties is the issue of potent
potions to *pale proletarians, most of
whom seem to lead a much gayer life than
I do. There are, of course, those who are
proceeding, trembling, to a court-session ;
and ulcer-executives are steady clients;
but I think of the woman who wanted a
draught to “keep her awake at the pic-
tures,” and especially of a semi-sozzled
citizen who swayed sinuously down the
shop announcing that he and an absent
friend had been grogging-up a bit (a
gross under statement). Could he have
tablets to restore him and his ole pal to
normal? “Nothing easier,” said I, pro-
ducing the tablets. “Dissolve in water
. . . drink . . . and all will be well, sir.
Two-and-sixpence, please.” “Thanks,
sport,” said the martyr to friendship.
“Can I dissolve them in beer?” —
“Standee.”
+> ♦>
“C.P.G.”: A traveller in Tasmania
mentioned some unusual beer-glasses
(B. 22/2/’56) used in Tassie years ago.
S/hen you tipped one of these mugs up,
you really saw the last drop—a convict
taking-off from the gallows.
“Bo”: Far be it from me to advocate
the Soviet way of life, yet one custom
which should find favor in our sturdy
democracy is to be seen in current news-
reels of the Soviet Supreme -Presidium in
session—the Commo party’s First-Sec-
retary, Nikita Khrushchev, applauding
himself after his six-hour talk. He was
even more, as it were, manually vociferous
than all the other hundreds of yes-men
who were going at it hammer-and-tongs.
Think how this custom, adopted here,
would bring cheer to the Domain soap-
box-orator or the politician on the hust-
ings when his best efforts had brought
only a stony silence from the handful
of spectators, the joy it would mean to
the chairman of directors who, after
reviewing the year’s trading at the annual
general meeting, found himself his sole
supporter! And the moral effect on the
drawing-room tenor would be incalcul-
able.
<s-
“Curio”: “W.P.T.” (B. 29/2/’56) is
astray about the present church on
Church Hill. The original building
was certainly St. Phillip’s ; begun
in 1798, but not finished until 1810,
when it was dedicated by the Rev.
SamueL Marsden on Christmas
Day. This building later proved
*too small, and was demolished
about 1857. The foundation-stone
of the present St. Philip’s, which
has but one “1” in the name (the
Biblical Philip also has but one),
was laid on May I. (St. Philip
and St. James’ Day), 1848 ; so it
seems that the Saint and not the
saintly Arthur Phillip is honored
by the present edifice. The build-
ing was consecrated on March 28,
1856, just on 100 years ago. The
supervising architect was Edmund
T. Blacket, who was responsible
for, the Great Hall of Sydney
University.
“Cauboy”: Conciliation Com-
missioner Donovan averted a
theatrical crisis in Melbourne by
attending a performance of
“Kismet” to decide whether the
chorus of both sexes didn’t have
to work harder than common-or-
garden musicomedy choruses; the
idea being that lifting themes
from Borodin imposed as much
strain on performers as on
musicomedy “composers.” Hav-
ing eyed the voluptuous busi-
ness, Commissioner Donovan
volunteered his opinion that the
chorus was outstanding and the
singing beautiful, and £1 extra wages.
It is a nice point whether Com-
missioner Donovan is not here
invading the province of the theatre-
critic. Is he a member of the Critics’
Union? What might result from allowing
a panel of theatre-critics to raise or lower
wages of choruses and principals? Well,
probably not conciliation.
♦J»
“Shandy B.”: When any girl was
called to Mr. Wag’s office for dictation,
she raised eyes to Heaven and heaved
sighs of fortitude, for Mr.
Wag made roguish remarks
about busts, legs and boy-
friends, and always, before
the “Yours faithfully,” there
would be a facetious mes-
sage to the person the letter
was going to —for office-use
only ; but new girls often
got some of it down before
realising that something was
amiss. By then Mr. Wag
would be in uproars of
mirth. On the day Miss
Smith was leaving to be
married she expected an
easy afternoon to receive her
staff-present and bid her
adieus, but she was sum-
moned to take a stack of
letters and listen to funnies
about her forthcoming
honeymoon. Back at her
typewriter her fingers swung
into furious tempo, and
some 30-odd people were
astonished to receive letters
in the usual windy, wordy
public - service vernacular,
but ending with such greet-
ings as: “Love and kisses
to Mum and the kids.”
“Hooroo, you big stiff.”
“Yours till the cows come
home.” “Bottoms-up,” and others that
were purely Miss Smithian, and ever so
naughty. Mr. Wag was his own execu-
tioner ; trusting the efficiency of Miss
Smith, he signed the letters without
checking them."
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emtee”: A week before the crashed
plying-Doctor Anson was found by a
Department of Civil Aviation search-
plane, a Melbourne pressman began
handing out advice to the R.A.A.F. on
how to conduct the search. Unless you
have tried you have no idea how hard it
is to spot anything as small as the scat-
tered remains of an Anson in knotty
country. During my flying-instructor
days of last war I told a pupil to try to
find his way back to the aerodrome. He
stooged around hopelessly for five
minutes before confessing he had no idea
where it was. I took over and put the
nose down. He nearly fell out: We had
been directly over the aerodrome all the
time.
❖ ❖
“Honest Frank”: Queried a ruling on
charges by the country P.O. official, and
he loftily suggested that I purchase a
“P.O. Guide” and educate myself: “We
sell them in two parts; Is. 3d. each.” I
flashed half-a-dollar. Alas, they didn’t
“You know the rules of this establishment—all gentlemen
must leave by 10 p.m."
have any in stock. “Put your name
down ; take about a week,” said my now-
ruffled counsellor. It took months for
just this advice: “None available.” I
gave up. But they won’t.
*l* *
“Maitri”: Our rector is as honest a
character as you’d meet in a long day’s
march. He took his young son into a
Sydney store to buy him a pair of shoes.
When they came home the kid’s mother
asked him how he liked the new foot-
wear. “Oh, they’re 0.K.,” admitted the
heir of grace, “but not as good as these”
—and he produced from Iris suitcase a
most expensive pair which he’d smuggled
into the case when the shop-assistant was
fixing-up the change. The rector knocked
lhr. 6min. off the jet record getting into
town to return the pinched goods and do
a spot of explaining.
»♦«
Nancy Cato: Misquotations always
annoy me, so I bow my head and apolo-
gise to “J.D.W.” (B. 15/2/’56) for my
seeming liberties with the 121st Psalm. But
in the Presbyterian hymn-book we used
at school there was a paraphrase of
almost every Psalm in the form of a
hymn ; the 121st ran:
I to the hills will lift mine eyes
From whence doth come mine aid;
My safety cometh from the Lord,
Who heaven and earth hath made.
What I did in my story was to take the
first line of this and add the next line
of the Psalm —unconsciously mixing two
separate memories.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Jonl”: Was one of a mixed assort-
ment of pilgrims assembled to celebrate
the christening of Pat’s and Mrs.
Murphy’s latest. Most of us assumed
the infant’s religion well fixed in the
ancient faith common to the vast majority
of the world’s Murphys. Moreover, tne
mother’s maiden-name was O’Brion and
the god-parents were O’Learys; the
selected day was St. Patrick’s, and the
officiating clergyman was the Rev. Hogan.
But the Church was Anglican; so were
all the principals.
*2*
“Pevin”: Apparently there’s nothing
like a school address to induce confidence
in, and educe credit from, business-
people. Whenever a teacher with a
long record of brief appointments is in-
formed that his services are no longer
required by the department, for months
after his departure we have to forward
to a new address a stream of unsealed
envelopes, and inform shopkeepers who
ring-up that Mr. So-an-so is no longer in
the town.
❖ ❖
“Pthod”: The Stork’s rapid turnover
at daughter’s household —three new
arrivals in three years —has roused
Grandma to action. Number Three,
though christened euphoniously, is now
Omega to all.
* +»
“Sevenelms”: Tell “Kia-Ora” (B.
15/2//56) that the sago-grains of yester-
year go, where they always went, to good
cooks who make gulamalacca; not to
Australians, who get only tapioca. A
Melbourne grocery-firm some years ago
ordered a ton instead of a hundred-
weight of sago for a special Government
mucilage, and knowledgeable directors’
wives had real sago-puddings for a few
years. The sago-palm needs rich soil.
Tapioca can be grown on country spoiled
by mine-tailings. And now will some-
one please tell us what happened to the
“heathen arrowroot” that was the basis
of “hasty pudding”.?,
INEXPENSIVE TREATMENT
The aches I’d clicked for were a cow!
They used to move about, somehow;
My limbs would lock.
I tried one “sure-cure” liniment,
Which made them worse. And so l went
To see the doc.
My opening sentences he heard,
Then he poked in a questing word,
Which led to others.
We soon found that, in agony
Of muscle, joint and fibres, we
Were close as brothers.
He spoke of aches that racked his frame,
His joints seared by some inner flame,
A ceaseless curse
For which he’d found no anodyne.
He hinted gloomily that mine
Would get much worse.
Enthusiasm seized him when
O’er agonies beyond my ken
He slowly skated,
The while, in the reception-room,
The other patients, in a fume,
Sans patience, waited.
What caused the aches that plagued us
two
He hadn’t, he confessed, a clue.
At my request
He listened, then, to theories V
Felt that to practice could apply.
He seemed impressed.
Feeling that solid friends had we
Become, with strong affinity,
Ere pain could beat me,
l asked the doc., my new-found friend,
With urgent voice: “Can I depend
On you to treat me ?”
He nodded. Whereupon his lid
l slammed upon his head, and bid
Him come with me.
I steered him to the pub next-door.
After some seven whiskies (for
Which he paid) we
Reached sound agreement on one point:
The subject of the painful joint
Must now be banished;
For, strange though it seems, the aches
and pains
Which had kept both of us in chains
Had somehow vanished!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEM S
A visitor to New Zealand, Mrs. Frank
Worsley, widow of Commander Wors-
ley, whose polar explorations are a matter
of history. He led the British Arctic
expedition of 1925, and skippered Quest,
which took Sir Ernest Shackleton’s second
expedition to the Antarctic. From his
Arctic experiences he wrote Under Sail
in the Frozen North, and from his Ant-
arctic adventure Endurance. Mrs. Wors-
ley visited Akaroa, where her*husband
was bom —a small seaside town with
roots in N.Z. history. Here the French
planned to establish a settlement. The
Union Jack was hoisted first, but many
of the French colonists elected to stay,
so there are a good few French names
in the district.
• •
Douglas Wadley (pictured here) is a
legal man who takes a keen interest in
the land. Born and educated in Brisbane,
admitted as a solicitor of the Supreme
Court in 1926, and member of the well-
known legal firm of O’Shea, Corser and
LAW, LAND, BUSINESS
Wadley, he breeds Jerseys and is on the
Royal National A. and H. Association
council. Also committeeman of the
Queensland Turf Club, chairman of
directors of Queensland Brewery, Ltd.,
and director of a raft of companies.
• •
“Ek D.” reviews a sacked soldier:
Major-general Sir John Bagot Glubb (of
“Glubb’s Girls,” alias the Arab Legion), who
was sacked from command of the most
effectual force of fighting-men in the Middle
East by a 20-year-old Arab king and made a
K.C.B. by the Queen of England in the one
week, is a curious historic character.
He is at least third-generation Asian-British
soldier. His grandfather was Orlando Manley
Glubb, of the 37th Bengal Native Infantry. His
father was Major-General Sir Frederick Manley
Glubb, K.C.M.G., C. 8., D. 5.0., Chief
Engineer of the Second Army, B.E.F. The
family is ancient and Cornish. The Bagot in
the last generation’s name is fighting Irish.
I remember the latest Glubb (R.E., like his
father), a small, dusty official beside a road in
Irak, about 1927. He was not an impressive
figure—about the same size as T. E. Lawrence,
but less muscular —and he hatf a bad chin-
wound from World War I. But he had a
personality, as became plain when he was well
dusted by a passing car. He had the reputa-
tion of being master of most of the dialects of
his region, spoke French and Persian fluently,
was a fine hand with camels —he really had a
liking for the beasts, and for Arab camp-life —
and he had a taste for color and showmanship
which appealed to the Arab mind.
After World War I (thrice wounded, M.C.)
he served in the British forces in Irak from
1920 to 1926, then for four years as an
administrative officer of the Irak Government,
transferring to Transjordania in 1930, and
assuming command of the Desert Area (Colonial
Office) in 1932 and of the Arab Legion in 1939.
He was made a C.M.G. in 1946.
Glubb has had a profound influence on the
Arabs, and was a famous character in the
Middle Cast long before the West heard of
him. He won’t feel much at home in England
now—36 of his 56 years have been spent in
the Arab world. Even his family is Arab —
the Glubbs have adopted three Arab children.
• •
Professor A. L. Blakers, who has filled
the Chair of Mathematics in the Wes-
tralian University since September, 1952,
has been over to Bombay representing
the national committee of mathematics of
the Australian Academy of Science at a
South-Asian conference on mathematical
education. The conference was spon-
sored by the International Mathematical
Union, organised by the Indian Ministry
of National Resources and' Scientific
Research, and assisted financially by
U.N.E.S.C.O. Delegates came from
South-Asian countries and Japan, with
invited speakers from Britain, France, the
Netherlands, Italy and the U.S. Blakers
is a native of W.A. and graduate of its
Uni. He went to Princeton (U.S.) under
a Hackett Studentship, but interrupted his
studies to fly with the Royal Canadian
Air Force in War 11. After that he re-
turned to Princeton, took his Ph.D., and
remained on the teaching-staff till
appointed to a lectureship in Michigan
University, with a subsequent appoint-
ment at Lehigh University, Pennsylvania.
• •
One of the oldest Roman Catholic pre-
lates in the world, if not the oldest,
Archbishop Mannix had a 92nd birth-
day last week at Portsea (Vic.). He has
been 66 years a priest and 44 years an
archbishop.
• •
“M.”: Arthur Dale Trendall, M.A.,
Litt. D., Master of University House,
National University, Canberra, has had
the unusual experience for a non-Catholic
of being made a Knight of St. Gregory
by the Pope. He is a Maorilander, still
in his middle-forties, with a world-wide
reputation as a classical scholar and an
archaeologist; one of the most brilliant
men turned-out by the University of
Otago, which he left to go overseas as a
post-graduate research-scholar at 22. At
27 he was a Fellow of Trinity College,
Cambridge, and librarian of the famous
British School at Rome; at 30, Professor
of Greek at Sydney University, at 36
Dean of the Faculty of Arts, and later
Acting Vice-Chancellor. It is sympto-
matic of the vast change in the nature
of Australian universities and the revo-
lution in communications that this coun-
try can keep a man who is regarded as
the leader in the field of his own branch
of archaeology, and without denying him
the opportunity to continue his great
researches on his Greek and Italian stamp-
ing-grounds. His papal knighthood came
to him for his work on the Vatican’s
collection of Etruscan vases. In that field
he is about the world’s leading authority.
A friendly, mentally well-ordered per-
sonality, a good disciplinarian, with a
ripe knowledge in many fields.
• •
Eight years ago Professor Donald Peart
arrived from his native England to
occupy the first Chair of Music at Sydney
University, bringing with him, as the most
important part of his luggage, sound
musicianship, an enormous enthusiasm
for his subject and a ton or two of energy.
Today the faculty is one of the Uni.’s
liveliest, its activities are expanding, and
its Pro Musica Society is always on the
look-out for works off the beaten track
to present, ranging from early-English
music going back to Byrd and Dowland
to the most modern of short operas —
the production of Lennox Berkeley’s “A
Dinner Engagement” was one of last
year’s artistic successes. The Prof, has
a students’ orchestra and a choir, and
runs an “opera workshop” in which
young composers are encouraged to
build and fit together their opera-themes
and -devices. Tomorrow night (March
15) he will launch his newly-formed
symphony orchestra (the 31 players are
all young professionals) in the Great Hall,
with a programme of the brightest short
MUSIC
works of such cheerful composers as
Rossini, Haydn, Mozart and Prokovieff.
Professor Peart (he’s a B.A. and Mus.
Bac.) went on from Oxford to the Royal
College of Music, where he learned the
violin and viola and studied composition
under the G.O.M. of English composers,
the now 84-year-old Ralph Vaughan
Williams.
Dennis Winterbottom, new chief
migration-officer for Australia in Ger-
many, leaves behind a tidy record of
achievement in his home State (S.A.) and
elsewhere —“elsewhere” applies par*
ticularly to his War II service
with the R.A.A.F., squadron-leader
at the finish. General-secretary of
the S.A. Chamber of Manufactures for
eight years (he succeeded his father, who
was secretary for 40 years), he organised
MIGRATION
the successful 1947 and 1952 exhibitions
and helped plan the one for next year.
President of the S.A. Good Neighbor
Council and hon. sec. of the United
Nations Appeal for Children (the com-
mittee raised £25,000 last year), he also
had a hand in establishing the S.A. Sym-
phony Orchestra in 1947.
• •
Despite an attack of appendicitis,
soprano Joan Hammond is returning to
Australia to lend hand and voice to the
founding of the first permanent Aus-
tralian opera company, due to take the
spotlights at the same time as the Olym-
pic Games. Australian baritone John
Cameron is coming with her.
• •
“Allan B.” Appointment of Harold
Blair to the staff of singing-teachers at
Melbourne Conservatorium seems to call
for special comment. He’s the first
aborigine to achieve this sort of distinc-
tion. In a way, it’s a homecoming, as
Harold took his diploma of music at this
Conservatorium before going overseas to
study and do coiicert-tours. Born in the
Murgon district (Q.), he attended the
Purga*mission-school near Fassifern, and
first attracted attention for his fine sing-
ing when rounding-up cattle in that dis-
trict. In 1945, then 20, he was urged by
Marjorie Lawrence to go further with his
singing, and some Queenslanders clubbed
together to send him to Melbourne Con.
After an A.B.C. tour he studied in
America under Professor Tod Duncan,
the Negro baritone, and appeared on
New York TV. Recently he included in
his A.B.C. programme compositions by
Ernabella Mission aborigines.
• •
A Scot of Scots, A. E. McLucas learnt
his pothooks at Scots College in Warwick
(on the Queensland Downs); a few years
back headmastered Scots in Bathurst
(N.S.W.), and souths shortly to do like-
wise at Sydney’s Scots. At present head
of Brisbane Grammar, he was born in
the granite-apple-belt country, at Stan-
thorpe, and did a spot of extra-curricular
work with the A.I.F. in New Guinea and
Borneo.
• •
“J.F.”: A whole solid chapter of Aus-
tralian art was represented in the person
of John Salvana, who has passed on in
Sydney. Moore’s Story of Australian
Art has a dark photograph of the Royal
Art Society’s selection-committee of 1909
selecting a painting —Salvana, Dattilo-
Rubbo, Lister-Lister and others sitting in
a half-circle, with one of the committee
holding up the picture for inspection.
But there are earlier references, and
Salvana, when he dropped in at The
Bulletin some five years back, told
writer he had painted with Roberts and
Streeton. A Fellow of the Royal Art
Society and vice-president of the Aus-
tralian Art Society, he painted Australian
landscapes which hang in public-galleries
and homes in various parts of the country,
and also in private collections in Eng-
land, America, Denmark, Holland and
Japan.
• •
Last week Commander N. D, Hol-
brook, V.C., visited the River-
ina town named after him, and
a few miles away, at Albury,
local man A. C. Borella agreed to a
request by the border-town’s council that
a street should be given his name. As a
subaltern in War I Albert Chalmers
Borella won the V.C., having collected an
M.M. as an O.R.
• •
Led by Sammy Davis, 30 British
motoring-journalists hit Melbourne the
other day. Sam is the man who won the
dramatic 24-hour Le Mans race in 1927
in a Bentley, who drove a Baby Austin
at 80 m.p.h. for 12 hours in 1929, and
who forced his Bentley over a tangled
mass of three cars in the 1927 race and
drove at high speed for another 19 hours
with a twisted chassis, no lights and no
brakes. He’s a former editor of “Auto-
car.”
© 9
“Weff”: When the N. S. Wales Legislative
Assembly meets again, Joseph (“Stonewall”)
Jackson will be among those absent: he
resigned before the elections. Liberal member
for Nepean since 1927, he was (1922-27) one
of the five members for Sydney in the days of
proportional representation, his ability to deal
it out to such doughty fighters as Greg McGirr,
Mick Burke and Paddy Minahan winning him
a seat. An independent cove, his blunt speech
and rugged individualism were marked traits
in a sometimes stormy political career. He
walked out of the Stevens Ministry in 1933—he
held the Local Government portfolio —over the
question of valuation of city properties. A
City of Sydney alderman for years, he was
once Lord Mayor.
Now 82, he was born on the diggings at
Mitchell’s Creek, near Wellington (N.S.W.);
his father alternated mining with farming/ and
his grandfather- was one of the first teamsters
to operate from Maitland as far west as Bourke.
His mother’s people came to Australia as
bounty-immigrants in Strathfieldsaye—the ship
which later brought out Henry Parkes, whose
old home at Faulconbridge (N.S.W.) Jackson
now occupies.
As a boy he worked for Annie Albury, Henry
Lawson’s aunt, in her shop at Gundagai. At
Gulgong he worked for Johnny Cogden, who
built the Prince of Wales Theatre and the
MISSING
Prince of Wales Hotel —both still standing—in
that town. In his Goulburn-street office Jack-
son has Johnny’s “bones,” which Johnny
played when starring with the Ironclad
Minstrels; also, on the wall, a framed copy of
Lawson’s “The Glass on the Bar.”
A bush-worker, Jackson saved a bit of money
and put it into a boot-store. Then he set-up
in Sydney —as near Anthony Horderns’ as he
could get—and soon his energy had written
his name over several shops. He knew the
value of advertisement —free if possible —and
found an enormous mop of hair an asset. Like
Jack Moses, he could recite, Lawson, “The
Banjo,” Ogilvie and the rest of them by the
hour, and did. He has written a brief and
racy history of Peak Hill (N.S.W.), where he
once had a store.
• •
Into the Silence;
In Brisbane, at 63, James Harvy Holmes,
chairman of the Southern Electric Authority of
Queensland. His father, E. J. Holmes, was
one of the founders, in 1896, of the Brisbane
Electric Supply Co., forerunner of the City
Electric Light Co.; E. J. Holmes was first
chairman of directors of C.E.L. when it was
formed in 1904, and J. H. Holmes became a
director on his father’s death in 1933, and five
years later became chairman, retaining the
chair when the company subsequently became
the Southern Electric Authority.
In Auckland (N.Z.), Beatrice Esther Talbot,
one of the first women graduates in the British
Empire. Principal of Nelson Girls’ College,
Miss Gibson resigned in 1900 to marry Dr.
A. G. Talbot, who survives her.
In Brisbane, at 79, William Albert Smith,
craftsman-saddler, trading under, and known
as, “Wizard” Smith. He made saddles for
Australian bushmen, English noblemen, horse-
men from continental Europe, and such out-
of-the-ordinary dignitaries as Haile Selassie.


SUCCESS!
\\
l\p&y, i'4
H Tnt I~qTTs^//


ABORIGINALITIES
“T’M humpin’ me drum along Yackan-
dandah-road in Victoria,” related Dan,
“an’ in one o’ them old dredge-workin’s
I see a big goanner an’ a six-foot black
snake havin’ a stoush. They make it
pretty willin’ f’r a while, till all of a
sudden the go. backs orf an’ pedals away,
flat-out. I reckon he’s bin bit, so I watch
closely t’ see if he’s headin’ f’r some o’
that herb wot’s supposed t’ cure snake-
bite. But, no, he makes f’r where the old
smithy has been, an’ wriggles into a
length of three-inch pipin’ that fits his
carcass neatly between front an’ back
legs. Then, in his iron overcoat, he comes
back an’ quickly finishes Joe orf . . .
Yairs, I knoo.then I was headin’ into the
Kelly country.”—“Yack.”
* * * *
“Ipmay”: The inherent music in
aboriginal languages is nowhere more
apparent than in the names they give
mythological characters in their folklore
tales. In Westralia’s Kimberleys they
have a character who comes about to see
that children are all in bed. In some
tribes he is called 8001-ah-bah-100-yah;
others have slight variations of the
name, all euphonious. The abo. fisher-
man always prudently tosses the first of
his catch back for 8001-ah-bah-100-yah.
Any lights at night on land —fireflies,
glinting eyes, marsh-lights—and the phos-
“ There’s a PUB half-way, maister, but tha’s neither ’ere nor there."
phorescence in the sea are all put down
to thus amiable gentleman moving about.
• * * «
“South”: Was brought-up to refer to
gelignite and similar explosives as “frac-
teur,” and was rather surprised when an
engineer, newcomer here at Broken Hill,
insisted that the spelling is “fracture.”
This cuts across local custom, but a search
of Webster's, Oxford and Chambers’
Technical, a dictionary of science and
technical journals failed to substantiate
“eur.” One of the clues was that the only
other place I know of where explosives
are referred to as “fracteur” is in the
Kalgoorlie goldfields, which suggested
that it might be a trade-name. Charlie
Galloway, one of the old identities still
working on the Zinc, remembers that
before World War I, in an effort to keep
explosives at a reasonable level, Broken
Hill imported South African “Cape
Fracteur.” Presumably the same thing
occurred at Kalgoorlie. Can any of the
old-timers substantiate this story, or are
there other reasons why these two mining-
localities adopted “fracteur” to describe
the various blasting-sticks?
* * « *
“Phil Anthus”: M. L. Skinner’s
“Witch of Wellaway” (B. 22/2/’56) may
have been pretty skilled as a bird-trainer,
but she was not so hot in the matter of
identification. Her pet cockatoos, as the
description indicates, were in fact eorellas,
and not, as she proclaimed, wee-jugglers.
This latter term is one of the aliases of the
pink (or Major Mitchell) cockatoo, and
it’s a name that seems to merit preserva-
tion, if only as an oddity—no one, as far
as I’m aware, has an idea regarding its
origin. Similarly, one of the names of
the handsome regent- (or smoker-) parrot
is, as the crime-reporters say, “shrouded
in mystery.” That name is rock-peplar,
sometimes rendered rock-pebbler. Pos-
sibly the “peplar” part of the label is a
corruption of the bird’s specific name,
Anthopeplus, but that doesn’t sufficiently
explain “rock-peplar” in the case of a
bird that is not interested in rocks of any
kind.
* * * *
“E. 2”: The neighbor’s nondescript
mong had been worrying the sheep again,
so he decided to be rid of it. Took it
down the paddock and was lining-up the
rifle-sights when he had to give up.
Wotinell else could he do when the silly
tyke squats on its haunches and puts up
a paw to shake hands?
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Though it’s over 20 years
since the old “Sydney Limited” ran its
last trip, part of the train is still giving
good service. The Limited’s observation-
car, remembered by many travellers, has
a permanent place at the North Mel-
bourne locomotive-depot, as a class-room
for newly-qualified enginedrivers studying
signal diagrams. If not for its present
utility, the car is well worth preserving as
an example of high-grade wood- and
metal-craftsmanship. An inspection
leaves you impressed with how tradesmen
can rise to a height approaching occu-
pational artistry.
* * * *
“Troppo”: In our N.Q. town of half-a-
dozen poorly-run pubs Jamesie enjoyed
the doubtful distinction of running the
worst. Casual to extremity, he presented
a take-it-or-leave-it attitude to any cus-
tomer who complained about the service
or the temperature of the beer, and his
clientele dwindled to a handful. Then
Jamesie sold-out, and the progressive new
licensee soon had pastel-tinted walls,
chrome furniture, floral decorations in
the bar and a standard of hygiene not
far below operating-theatre standards.
Jamesie came back a couple of months
later, surveyed the dense crowd at the
bar, nudged me m the ribs and confided,
“Just a man’s b luck. Sold-out a
couple of months too soon!”
“Noah”: I nominate the pushbike as
as one of the greatest mechanical gifts to
mankind. Such a simple machine that
can enlarge a man’s physical power and
speed is a wonder in itself, but the wonder
is all the more so when it is considered
how a bike’s usefulness is maintained
under conditions of abuse and inatten-
tion. Should machines ever combine
against man, the bike, I’m sure, would be
first to form a union and find a ready
membership among the rattling, oil-
starved grids one sees daily ridden to an
early death on the average streets. And
all the union would demand would be
a weekly drop of oil and a once-over
with the box-spanner. In fact, I’m con-
science-stricken seeing my old bitzer
“What’s Johnny Ray got that I haven’t?"
from under this shady tree. Yes, I’ll
overhaul that bike —perhaps one day
when the weather gets a bit cooler.
\.* * * *
“Jemac”: Very fly, flies. Think of it.
The fly’s a pest: he’s also perfectly inde-
pendent, self-confident and courageous
Swat him. He’ll take-off—leisurely for
him —and come down on the back of your
hand. And irreverent. He couldn’t care
less whether you’re king or clown. All
is meat —the,world’s made for flies. You
can’t terrify him, nor govern him. The
bee has her gathering and building, the
spider her netting, the ant her treasury
and accounts—but your fly, free, wanders,
investigates, flits, feasts at his will, with
rich variety, from the sweets in the shop
to the dung in the road, from which, as
you disturb him, he rises with angry re-
publican buzz. That buzzing is produced
by a constant flowing of air through the
trachea. The fly’s flight makes a 50-ton
tank of a swift; its wings are forcing-
pumps, of which the stroke compels the
thoracic respiration. And so it breathes
and flies simultaneously by action of the
same muscles, flying with thousands of
strokes per minute, and an unbelievable
endurance.
* * * *
“Bass”: In some Westralian country
districts where manually-operated tele-
phone-exchanges have been changed to
automatic, subscribers have been warned
that long telephone-conversations are a
fire-hazard. Previously, however many
lines were engaged, ah urgent call could
always get through to the operator, who
could chip-in on any conversation to
spread a fire-alarm and summon help;
but with automatic phones an exchange
•full of calls prohibits anyone else from
getting through until some of the callers
hang-up. So the edict has gone forth—
keep your calls short during fire-risk
weather.
* * * ft
“Burr Imul”: During Hitler’s show a
few members of our strictly non-com-
batant section were practising with small-
arms. One chap didn’t look like hitting
the dead-marine we had for a target;
not surprising, since he had never handled
a .38 revolver. So he had a shot at the
box the target was mounted on. Still no
go. He thought it might be worth while
to look at the revolver—the barrel was
jammed with lead. An armorer sawed
the barrel down the centre and had it
photographed: five bullets nose-to-tail in
the bore. The same armorer, two days
later, had to give the same treatment to
the barrel of a Thompson. The cause in
both cases was lack of lubricant on the
slugs. Some years ago the cops of an
American city “law-enforcement agency”
were not getting their men. They were
in the habit of carrying their ammunition
in a waist-belt and giving it a daily polish.
Which made the rounds look pretty, but
didn’t increase, the efficiency of their
weapons.
* * * *
“Burna”: Pluvius insurance is big-
business. The promoter of a function
insures against sufficient rain falling
within, usually, the two-hour period in
which he considers he will rise or fall.
The minimum permitted is 10 points.
The arrangement is completed between
the promoter and company, the local
weather-bureau supplying the name of the
nearest official rainfall-recorder. Anyone
possessing a standard rain-gauge in a
standard exposure can be nominated and
accepted by both parties, in which case he
or she simply certifies that the rainfall
during the period was noted. Only
weather-bureaux, aerodromes, etc., have
self-recording pluviographs and auto-
graphic evidence, and —for one guinea
an exact reading is given, as deduced from
the trace on the chart. Frequently the
weather-bureau in the city is nominated,
even though it might be rather remote
from the function. That’s the gamble.
General rain is one thing. But showers
and storms are unpredictable as to time,
place and intensity.
* * * *
IX/HEN travellers first began calling at
’ ’ our scrub-selection with something
to sell we took to them as a break from
toil and our own company, lavishing on
them time we’d have otherwise squan-
dered slashing blackberries, digging-out
rabbits or knocking suckers off the ring-
barked trees.
They were always blokes who seemed
to have stacks of time to spend talking
about this and that, and could prove in-
formative as well as entertaining if
steered along the right channels. We
rarely bought anything from them, of
course, although if we needed a thing
very badly it was nice to have them share
our sorrow in not being able to afford
the “few bob down and the rest in easy
payments.”
Then, again, if one got a bit cheeky or
persistent and kept coming back we
could take to the scrub and leave the
kangaroo-dogs loose back at the house to
entertain him.
Times have changed a lot, now that the
super-salesman rolls-up to the door in the
latest-model car and tries to knock you
down with a packet of Craven A’s before
you get a breath. But none to date has
bested old Joe Hames, who, despite Tu*
decrepit attn/e, has substantial land- and
cattle-interests.
Joe Hames can be found most after-
noons on .the pub-veranda, and is invari-
ably a good listener. But when the going
gets tough he complains of drought. He
can then be led inside for a whisky—-
after it’s downed the empty glass bobs
up suggestively at the salesman’s elbow.
Four or five of these donations to Jo® s
interior usually puts the salesman on his
mettle, and he rushes in to clinch a deal.
He gets Joe’s stock reply:
“There’s one rule I made, an’ I always
stick by it,” he says. “Never do business
after y’ve had a few drinks.”
BARDE.
SAUROS
A lizard gleams on stone,
Greener than the willow leal,
Ageless mask and diamond eye
Pure beyond amaze or grief.
Moveless as the oracle N
In the classic glade,
Time has set him gently down
Fatalistic, unafraid:
He will see it out —today
And febrile morrow. Stilled at noon
He sleeps uncaring under skies
Full with planets, sun and moon . . 4
The insolent, great sun of brass,
The moon left strangely over
From a festival of stars,
And paler now than clover . . .
Enigmas, particle in space,
The saurian epic scaled on mire,
Such marvels do not shock his soul,
He only thinks of rock and fire . . .
The wall he rests upon, the blaze
He bathes his emerald tissue in;
And he may be the very one
With true philosophers akin.
The one that know.s beyond all question
Many heavens have been made,
The human gauge for time is false.
And only fools can be afraid.
Sauros is eternal now,
Beauty is at peace alone;
Paradise is all about —
Even here on silent stone.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.


/~\UR local breadcarter and his horse
always struck me as a happy com-
bination, but sixteen-inches of rain
straight would sour man or beast, and
when bake-oh emerged from the corner-
ship to see Boxer setting out for home at
a brisk walk he gave irate tongue:
“That’s the third time today; I’ll”
“Oh, don’t be hard on him,” gently re-
proved a motherly type standing under
the awning; “the poor animal must be
wet and miserable and pining to get
home.” Bake, about to take-off, paused.
“Well, he’s not alone in that,” he snorted,
“but if I did what he’s doing about forty-
odd customers wouldn’t be getting , any
bread.” The lady smiled benignly. “But
he’s only a poor dumb animal, isn’t he?”
she said gently.'-“We mustn’t expect him
t°”—— “Ha,” said the baker as he
plunged out into the deluge, “it used
to be the customer that was always
right; now it’s the flamin’ horse!” —“B.”
* * * *
“Albina”: As reported in a Perth
paper by a local correspondent named
Walton, Balingup (W.A.) is throwing out
its chest and holding up its hands in
horror at its latest fish-achievement. A*
chap went out rabbit- and bird-hunting
with his rifle. Passing a cool pool in the
midst of our heatwave, he bent for a
drink, and saw in the shallows a coy
rainbow-trout gazing up at him. Historic
customs went by the board, and the
startled trout met its Waterloo per rifle:
61b. Bioz. of rainbow-trout, 26in. long,
floated to the top. Biggest catch of the
district.
* * * «
“Saaedi”: Found a young, but fully
fledged, honeyeater caught by one leg
in the web of a garden-spider. It was
hanging head-downwards, and twirling
rapidly in vain efforts to free itself. It
could not have been captured long, as the
web was spun beside a street, and the
strange sight would not long have passed
unnoticed. I freed the bird and cleaned
the cobweb from its body; but it could
neither fly nor perch, and not till some
time later was it able to take-off, appar-
ently when the sticky web-secretion had
dried,
* * * *
“Archaen”: Some of those brass cres-
cents bestowed on aboriginal leaders long
ago are in the South Australian Museum ;
but they’re nothing to be proud of. The
chief was unknown in the tribal structure
of our aborigines. The old men ran the
show, but when European settlement took
place the occasional strong personalities
were quick to claim leadership over the
others as soon as they had grasped that
it would gain privileges and respect for
them. Upon these were conferred thee
large brass crescents, hung around the
neck on important occasions, with some
such inscription as “King Billy” engraved
on them. Anthropologically, they were
absurdities; the surviving ones are kept
as a reminder of how some aborigines
seized on the chance to ape the white-
man’s ways.
“Quo Vadis”: Midday-life on the green
garden-trellis here in this Queensland
backyard. Lines of black ants march
along the bean-runners to a font of sweet
food at the flower-bases. Oval orange
pumpkin-beetles and their speckled mates
feed away, and the larger round-spotted
leaf-eating ladybirds skin the green flesh
from the leaves. Man’s friend, the little,
round, 13-spotted ladybird, searches in-
dustriously for aphis-larvae. Hornets rest
with folded wings: bright yellowheads
with blue-black bodies and wings ; others,
all-black except for a chalk-white mask-
like face and gauzy wings.; three different
black-and-orange-banded types; an odd
small mason-wasp. The larva of a case-
moth, with its house on its back, upside-
down, eats its way along a choko-leaf.
A speckled gecko-lizard leaps in mid-air
after a startled fly; disturbed mosquitoes
arise from the cool gloom to enmesh in
a greedy spider’s web. Stray ants struggle
vainly among the forest of sharp lances
on pumpkin-stalks ; others slip unwarily
into the treacherous sandy prisons of ant-
lions. Yellow-striped leaf-cutters flash by ;
big grey grasshoppers park, granite-like,
on dry vine-stems; little green fellows
lurk in the self-colored foliage. Flotillas
of thistle-seeds, like sailing-ships, float by
on the breeze. And at the base of the
trellis support-post a solemn bearded-
dragon nods his approval of the whole
entertaining show.
* * * *
“Pthod”: At present the shortest
weekly half-hour of our lives is spent
right out of this world in the A.8.C.-ex-
8.8. C. serial “Journey to Mars.” A glar-
ing error in the all-important Earth-to-
Mars distance the Pthods nearly dis-
missed as just another space-fiction, but
the Pthods did not know all. Inter-
planetary societies exist, and have cal-
culated everything. The trip to Mars
would follow a minimum energy-path,
and, with due allowance for the differing
orbital speeds of Earth and Mars, the
curve is a type of spiral. Our ignorant
estimate was the straight-line distance,
hence our glaring error. However, we
have levelled the score. At one stage
Earth is visible through a telescope,
though radio contact with Earth can-
not be made because of the pre-
sence of an interfering nuclear-
swarm : “The swarm is forming a
barrier to all electromagnetic waves.”
Light is an electromagnetic wave, so this
is a case of the short familiar word
“radio” being accurate, while the poly-
syllable “electromagnetic” is not.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: Buzzing a long jarrah-stick
the wood-machinist mixed two fingers
with the shavings sucked into the blowers
in slices thinner than boarding-house
ham. Result, a compensation-claim. The
insurance-office wanted to determine
whether the amputation was self-inflicted
for monetary gain. With the shop-fore-
man and -manager, the investigator was
looking over the machine which caused
the accident. Barely showing above the
table, and almost invisible, were blades
spinning at thirty-four-hundred revs-to-
the-minute. “I don’t see how your man
could cut off two fingers with that thing,”
the investigator mused, idly placing the
tips of his fingers on the planing-table
and running them along its smooth sur-
face. “Well, you’d better start inquiring
into your own claim,” replied the shop-
foreman. “You may not have noticed it,
but you’ve just lost a couple of fingers.”
'* * * *
“Brick E.”: You’ve never been in real
trouble with glasses till an eye-specialist
has prescribed lenses to correct an astig-
matism, a defect that had worried you
so little you didn’t know you had it.
You put the glasses on —and step into a
world designed by a surrealist. Nothing
is level —with the possible exception of
things that are out of level. You marvel
that things do not roll off tables which
slope a full 6in. to the left. With amaze-
ment you watch water run,uphill. Ninety-
degree angles no longer exist—comers
of buildings become as though drawn in
perspective or isometric and, strangely,
in accord with those forms of drawing,
perpendicular lines remain perpendicular.
A brick becomes a misshapen out-of-
square monstrosity. Long-range vision is
not affected and close work is very
clear—except that the page is slightly
parallelogram-shaped. Following instruc-
tions, you persevere for a week, and find,
“It's Leap Year—and Annie's got her gun!"
not that the “correction” rights the astig-
matism, but that you are beginning to
accept life as being cock-eyed. Then a
kindly Providence contrives to make you
break the left lens. You screw in the one
from your old gogs and the whole world
becomes level, square and sane.
* * * *
“Stan”: It could be that Jules Verne
got from a simple piece of nature-study
his idea for a submarine submerging by
filling ballast-tanks with water and surfac-
ing by expelling the water from them.
The water-snail uses the same principle.
Having no means of traction strong
enough % to counteract the pressure, in
open water, for descending, it admits
water into its shell, expelling it again to
regain buoyancy when wishing to
surface.
* * * *
“Jas”: Cayley lists the spiny-
cheeked honeyeater as a bird of the
interior, but I have frequently seen him
in coastal districts, and I think he’s a
nomad. Mostly he visits coastal dis-
tricts in summer, maybe seeking cool
sea-breezes, but I have heard his pleasant
gurgling song outside my window in the
depth of winter. Unlike the miner—
which he rather resembles, save that his
beak is dull-red instead of yellow—he’s
a confirmed individualist. Each bird
moves about apparently without regard
for what his mates are doing, and a
single individual will sometimes remain
in a region after the rest have departed.
Apart from his delightful gurgle he has
a number of calls vaguely reminiscent
of other birds, and I sometimes think
the feckless wanderer aspires to be a
mimic. No hope of succeeding in that
difficult art, of course, unless he
“swallows the anchor” and settles down.
* * * *
“Bass”: Last winter the swamp on my
south-Westralian property rose higher
than I’ve seen it before, and the bird-
life on it this summer has been corres-
pondingly rich and varied. There are
quite a few ducks, teal, shags and
swamp-hens, which would presumably
eat swamp-snails, and a number of
magpie-larks, which certainly would;
yet this year thousands of snail-shells
have been left as the swamp dried-up,
whereas normally I wouldn’t see a dozen.
Are the snails eaten only when other
feed is scarce, or has some enemy
attacked the snails? Could be. The
swamp’s full of leeches, and leeches sub-
sist on the blood of molluscs and verte-
brates. Snails are molluscs.
;
THRUSH
Ah thrush, lush, limpid, O like lightning under
the mountain-piled white clouds, the caverns of
the thunder,
O call, call, in cold cadenza call the rush,
the hush of rain. O drench, quench the summer
bush:
the thronging fires of red and yellow Christmas
bells,
the sapling flames, each heat-hushed gum that
shells
its sun-burned bark. O let the creek speak
from soak
to soak; let the frogs croak, in chorus croak.
Ah thrush, limpid, lush, ah, let the rain be
spent
night-long on the leaves, the mould, my
stretched-tight tent.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
BUSHFIRE CASUALTIES
TUST back from fighting bushfires on
J the coastal plains north of Perth, I col-
lected my Bulletin a few days late and
read “S.” to the effect that in N.S.W.
“most [bushjfires don’t reach anywhere
near as high as the branches where the
koalas sit” (B. 25/1/’56).
That’s the State for me! Fighting
fires there would be a recreation after
tackling a real good Westralian blaze.
The fire I’ve just been associated with
was in the usual coastal scrub—banksia,
a thousand-and-one varieties of shrubs
and grasses, a few jarrahs and twice as
many whitegums to the acre, with an
occasional redgum thrown in. During
a heatwave it doesn’t need a spark to
ignite that country—the undergrowth is
tinder-dry, and even a piece of glass
catching the sun’s rays at the right angle
is as good as a match. Without' a wind
the fire radiates at a fair walking-pace
until it covers about a 50yd. radius, then
it creates wind enough to carry sparks
about 30yds., and from that point it
spreads.
The big trees have a rough, dry bark
which carries the flame literally quicker
than the eye can follow; and the leaves,
already heated from the advancing fire,
are highly volatile. Within a second of
the fire reaching the base of a tree the
top branches are a raging inferno in
which nothing at all could live. In fact,
often the leaves are the first part of a
tree to ignite—l’ve seen a whitegum
400yds. in front of the fire explode into
flames as the gas from the leaves broke-
down under the approaching heat.
“S.” asks what bush-creatures perish in
a fire. The crows that flock to the feast
could tell him. There are the night-
birds, almost helpless in the day and far
more numerous than is realised ; there
are birds that won’t leave their nestlings,
or even their nests, and those which, hav-
ing established their right to a certain
territory, are reluctant to leave it, and
hesitate too long—and with a high wind
the heat can be killing at a quarter of a
mile.
There are lizards—dozens of species—•
and snakes (the rock-ledge which “S.” sees
as a refuge is really an incinerator); and
there are possums and those small mar-
supials that live or hide in hollow-logs.
There are thousands of beetles, millions
of ants, and innumerable termites; in
fact, the most densely-populated city is
practically deserted compared with the
Australian bush.
“S.” thinks also that the native flora has
adapted itself to a life of periodical fire,
and it has, to a big extent, if you con-
sider races only. The species persist after
fires, "but the individuals perish in thou-
sands. A burnt-out bush is a tragic sight.
Even after the rebirth the dead are every-
where.
GRAVELSNATCHER.


v.
Mm
Could you act as
Executor
without expert advice?
Complexities of estate administration, probate duties
and varying State taxation laws demand specialised
knowledge in executorship.
Many executors have found that by co-joining Uriion
Trustee as executor or trustee they can transfer the
burdens of estate management to experienced hands,
and at a moderate cost that is often more than
justified by time and money saved through expert
knowledge of administration.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and ask for the booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria! Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenbam;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Kiverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE;
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; The Hon. Sir Henry
Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram J. P. Wright, M.B.E.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank, Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. 0. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT26
BEHIND THE BOND-RATE
WITH support for the bond-
market (through the central
bank and the National Debt
Sinking Fund) reduced from
“an abnormal level in the direc-
tion of a normal level”
[Menzies, P.M.], the open-
market interest-rate for long-
term bonds in Australia has
risen to about 5 p.c., including
redemption. This, of course,
means that anyone wanting to
sell a 10-year 4i p.c. bond on
the market now must do so at
a loss of about £3 in the £lOO,
while in the case of a 31 p.c.
issue the loss amounts to about
£l4.
(It all, incidentally, brings to
light again the old contention
that Australian Governments
should be prepared to accept
Commonwealth bonds at par in
payment for death-duties.)
More generally, the facts are
that Australia is being forced to
face economic conditions as they
really exist, and that we are
coming more into line with con-
ditions overseas, especially those
in Britain, where gilt-edged
securities are offered on a 5 p.c.
basis, too, without, as yet, a
great deal of support from
institutional investors.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, is to make a statement
on Australian Government
policy this week. It will be an
“operative” statement not
merely a review. Some of the
measures may call for fresh
legislation. He told the House
that he did not want to start a
“scare” about the state of the
economy. “All these problems
are quite manageable.” This
week he would “indicate what
the problems are and how we
think they ought to be
managed.”
A general rise in interest-rates
seems inevitable. It has
happened in Britain already,
and, to a lesser extent, in Maori-
land. For some years, to vary-
ing degrees, interest-rates in
Australia have been kept too
low, and then wholly by. artificial
means.
Bonds Unpopular
It has not been altogether a
result of an inadequate supply
of money that the public has
sought higher interest-rates. At
times there has been an over-
supply of money. It has, rather,
been that the money-supply has
been too much in the hands of
(a) people who are not investors
at any time, but merely potential
spenders, and ( b ) investors and
speculators who are not
interested in fixed-interest securi-
ties except at 6 p.c., 7 p.c. or
more. There has been a
reluctance even to place money
on fixed-deposit during recent
years.
The fact that neither the
currency nor Government-
securities are any longer backed
by gold has led people to invest
in real-estate, commodities, and
commodity - backed ordinary-
shares. There has been a swing-
away from fixed-interest securi-
ties by sophisticated investors
who understand more acutely the
effect of inflation on “money
investments.
The Bulletin’s diagnosis of
BARBERS
WANTEP
40-HOUR-WEEK
SUPER AWNUA77ON
3 WEEKS LEAVE
AWARP RATES
Bonus ( tips )
EREEttAI ROOTS
Australia’s ever-recurring post-
war economic malady is that
there is not enough production
in this country, not enough effi-
ciency (employer and employee),
not enough profit, not enough
savings, not enough investment.
Low returns on investments
have not encouraged thrift.
Inflation has encouraged spend-
ing instead of saving—“ Buy it
now—it’ll be dearer next year.”
Full employment has not been
accompanied by full produc-
tivity. People have tried to side-
step the burdens that go with
the Welfare State. And the
thrifty middle-class, traditionally
the backbone of a capitalist
economy, have been smitten hip
and thigh in the changes that
have come with post-war “new
order.” [The Welfare State,
with its accompaniment of
“social security for all,” in itself
has discouraged the idea of
thrift, more especially among
the naturally thriftless. At the
present time there are tourists,
on “luxury-liners” and on
Cook’s tours on the Continent
and in Britain, who are spending
the remainder of their life’s
savings before returning to Aus-
tralia to go on to the old-age
pension. To have retained too
much money in the bank or
investments would have
debarred them from pension-
rights.
Fundamental Problems
The reasons for our present
difficulties are, as noted, funda-
mental, and have mainly to do
with productivity and thrift.
The remedies that are available
to a Federal Government under
the Australian Constitution are
clumsy and roundabout. They
are made more ineffective while
there are State Governments of
the irresponsible and politically
dishonest Cahill type with whom
dealings have to be made.
The Bulletin has already
suggested that, in the event of
increased taxation being levied
to finance public works because
of the failure of the loan-market,
a system of “works”-priorities
will need to be established in
order that the money shall not
be wasted by State Govern-
ments, as has been notoriously
the case in N.S.W. The nation
urgently needs more public
works, and it would be out-
rageous if precious capital were
dissipated for political reasons
when it is so desperately
required for legitimate purposes.
Transport, for example, is of
No. 1 importance in getting
costs-of-production down and
productivity up ; yet State trans-
port-systems are mostly anti-
quated and inefficient, and call
for the outlay of very large
sums in order to modernise them.
Whatever measures are
adopted by the Federal Govern-
ment, within its limited powers,
in order to cope with the infla-
tionary situation that has been
accompanied by a diminishing
balance -of - payments, they
should aim at encouraging basic
production, and they should not
discourage thrift. They should
also be selective in the matter of
public expenditure on public
works —in other words, there
should be a commonsense
system of priorities in the light
of the obvious requirements of
the situation.
Timbrol, Ltd.
ON February 29, shareholders
in Timbrol, Ltd., Sydney,
were advised by the co.’s direc-
tors not to sell their stock-units,
because “certain negotiations”
were in progress “which may
prove beneficial to stock-
holders.” Shareholders would
be advised of the outcome of
these negotiations when possible.
From modest beginnings in
Sydney in 1925, Timbrol, Ltd.,
has developed into an import-
ant manufacturer of mining,
industrial and agricultural
chemicals as well as “fine”
chemicals. As in the case of
other industries, the war pro-
vided a* stimulus to growth,
which expansion of the economy
since has sustained.
In 1955 both production and
sales were higher, in spite of
competition, which mainly
affected the return of the com-
pany’s export markets; and
after providing an unstated
amount for taxation and writing-
off an additional £28,069 to
depreciation (only the parent
co.’s provision of £132,502 is
shown) net profit was £24,868
lower at £159,318:
Parent Co.
r Dividends •, Ke-
Jne., Profit. Pref. r Ord. >, serves.*
p.c.
£ £* £>
’51.. 66,819 5500 8 p.C.=34,424 180,751
’52.. 65,146 5500 8 „ „ 40,174 200,223
Assets revalued, £80,374 .. 280,597
’53.. 62,663 5500 8 p.c.=55,211 282,549
Parent and Subsidiary.
Profit sale land, £41,279 .. 323,828
’54.. 184,186 5500 10 p.c.=86,032 416,483
’55.. 159,318 5500 10 „ „ 86,032 484,269
* Subject to intangibles, £30,826,
30/6/’55.
The consolidated figures include
the results of the recently-
established subsidiary, Timbrol
(N.Z.) Pty., Ltd., which distri-
butes the parent company’s pro-
ducts in New Zealand. Last
year it contributed to earnings
in only a small way.
The improved results of the
last two years reflect the bigger
demand for chemicals that
accompanied the revival of
business activity in 1953 and the
commissioning of additional
plant, including electrolytic
plant for the production of
caustic-soda and chlorine, and a
new DDT plant with a capacity
equal to more than half Aus-
tralian requirements.
With the renewed activity
lately has also come the problem
of rising costs, but Timbrol says
these have been “more than off-
set” by greater output and
higher operating- and process-
efficiency. Towards the end of
1955 the Tariff Board recom-
mended higher duties on the
co.’s principal coal-tar products
which were substantially equal
to the levels sought.
To finance net expenditure of
£12,719 on land, buildings and
plant, carry an added £192,655
stock and £52,424 debtors, and
reduce the amount due to credi-
tors by £33,202 and to the
A.M.P. Society, on secured loan,
by £22,000, the co. employed
£67,786 retained out of profits,
£127,956 held as cash or bonds,
and borrowed £160,273 on over-
draft:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 860,313 860,313
Beserves .. .. 416,483 484,269
Loan .. .. 478,000 456,000
Overdraft .. 160,273
Creditors, tax .. 315,494 282,292
Final divs. .. 88,781 45,766
£2,259,071 £2,388,918
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 1,096,922 1,109,641
Stock . . .. 690,733 883,388
Debtors, etc. .. 312,066 364,490
Cash, bonds .. 128,524 568
Intangibles .. 30,826 30,826
£2,259,071 £2,388,913
Quoted in the sharemarket at
41s. before the board’s “negotia-
tion” announcement, the £1 ord.
stock-units have since sold at 50s.
Gas at Cape Range
■pROM L. Owen: In Wapet’s
-*■ official report for the week
ended February 29, it was stated
that the Cape Range No. 2 well
was flowed, through various-
sized chokes, and that, for the
first three hours, it produced
gas and drilling-mud in unstated
quantities. After the well had
appeared to clean-up it was
flowed for one hour through a
|in. choke, and a flow-rate of
500,000 cubic feet of gas was
recorded. It was pointed out,
specifically, that enough informa-
tion had not been obtained to
make any appreciation of the
significance of the flow.
Above, I have followed the
wording of the official report
closely because the daily press,
in some instances, misquoted
Wapet’s statement as claiming “a
flow-rate of gas at 500,000 cubic
feet an hour,” which is a very
different matter to stating that
that rate was recorded pre-
sumably during some period of
the test only.
The Wapet statement might
be interpreted as meaning that
a total of 500,000 c.f. passed
through the meter during the
hour’s test, in which case the
initial rate of flow would have
been so enormous that it is diffi-
cult to visualise how a Wow-
out was not experienced during
the original drilling of the'hole,
and how, in the first stages of
the February, 1956, test it took
three hours (during which several
sizes of choke were used) before
clean gas was produced.
In spite of these facts, the
Department of National De-
velopment rushed into print with
the comment:
The finding of gas in this volume
enhances the prospects of finding oil
in the west. This strike may even
prove to be a gas-cap over an oil-
deposit. If this is shown not to be
so, the existence of this gas at sucn
high pressure does indicate that at
least some of the conditions neces-
sary to the occurrence of oil in com-
mercial quantities are to be found
in this area.
The statement is merely a
collection of geological plati-
tudes.
When the gas was flared, the
size of the flame must have
raised doubts, in the mind of any
experienced oil-man present, as
to the accuracy of the half-
million-cubic-feet figure. 1
assume that such doubts led to
the checking of the gauge used,
which was found to be faulty.
A 12-hour test on March 2
gave an initial flow of 40,uw
cubic feet an hour, dropping,
during the period of the test, to
the rate of 29,000 c.f. These
figures, analysed exponentially,
give approximate decreases in
flow-rate of about 27.5 p.c. over
the whole test, representing a
cumulative rate of decrease of 2.5
{Continued on next page)


i
1
I
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Al! types of Oeneral insurance
Directors:
sm VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON.
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANIOC
Manager.
Branches and Agencies hi all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Faith in the
Future
i
\
i
This decade has produced some remarkable
advances in knowledge and technical skill; and the
countries that will gain most from them are those
that have the trained minds to put them into
practice.
That is urgently true for us here in Australia.
We have a big slice of the earth’s surface. The time
we take in developing it will be measured by the
rate at which we create wealth with a human force
of nine million people.
To balance our overseas trade and ensure our
still greater future, we have to increase production,
which means we must have sufficient engineers to
design the productive works, supervise them
through to completion, and service them when they
operate.
But the number of engineering from
Australian universities is only a fraction of the
current vacancies.
The shortage is world wide, as leaders of
industry have been reminding us. Mr. Rhys Sale,
president of the Ford Motor Company of Canada
whom I saw in Toronto last year, regards it as a
fundamental problem in North America, and Lord
Hives, chairman and joint managing director of
Rolls Royce Ltd., told me last month it is a pro-
blem uppermost in the minds of British industrial
leaders.
Australia will find it increasingly difficult to
get well qualified technical men from overseas.
The training of an engineer takes years. And
the current shortage extends past student enrolments
to the ranks of the teachers.
The need in both will have to be filled. It can
and, I believe will, be filled, when Australia decides
as a national policy that special attractions shall
be offered to young brains to enter engineering;
not in the form of fleeting incentives, but in more
liberal scholarships, and in the cerfainty of high
reward for good professional service.
One incidental thought: A country whose
trained athletes lead the world in departments of
sport has surely the young fibre that can be trained
to build a nation.
y
p.c. per hour, or 47.5 p.c. per
day.
Such rapid rates of deteriora-
tion in volume, and consequently
in pressure, suggest very
strongly indeed that lenticular
conditions, characteristic of
strata harboring migrated gas
and oil, exist under Cape Range
—at least as far as porous and
permeable media are concerned.
It is, therefore, a justifiable
inference that the future testing
of the Cape Range structure —
and, most probably, of the Car-
narvon Basin as a whole—will
require a technique quite dif-
ferent from the “developmental”
method which has already
proved fruitless at Rough Range.
I may, perhaps, be permitted
to emphasise here that the success
of the new technique will depend
largely on the availability not
only of correct interpretation of
geophysical data combined with
effective extrapolation of surface
geological information (where
available), but also on the avail-
ability of detailed and special-
ised chemical analyses of all
samples of gas, oil and brine
collected.
.
Dolomite and Fertilisers
y'vOLOMITE and Fertilisers,
U Ltd., Melbourne, was formed
j as { November to acquire rights
m jne dolomite, claimed to be
c f high grade, at Coimadai (35
m iles f ro m Melbourne, and near
Bacchus Marsh), and to sell it
f or agricultural purposes. The
co claims to have “practically
a mo nopoly in Victoria of avail-
a bj e supplies” of dolomite. “Ore
rese rves” are estimated at
529,000 tons, with a possible
further 102,000 tons,
with plant and equipment
no w on the site an output o i
300 tons a week is spoken of.
Another £5OOO capital outlay is
estimated as necessary to raise
output to 500 tons, and £20,000
more to 1250 tons a week. Cost
of dolomite per ton, bulk, f.0.r.,
is put at 17s. Gross' profit is esti-
mated at not less than 3s. a ton.
The co. offered 30,000 “fixed
gp c cumulative participating
pre fs.’ of £1 each,” and 30,000
£j orc j s jhe prefs. participate
the ords. up to 121 p.c.
Shareholders and especially
preference shareholders are
said to be assured of “a steady
and handsome return on their
invested capital.”
The prospectus is sketchy on
the financial side. Though
£40,000 is payable in cash for
the mineral rights and plant, no
details are given. Working capi-
tal is put at £7500 ; preliminary
expenses, commission, etc., are
in at a maximum of £2BOO.
The vendor of the property,
Gregory W. Hanlon, was also the
promoter of the co. He is one
of the company’s six directors.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
r T'HE simple truth about the
■*- death-penalty issue is that,
on a free vote in Parliament, the
abolitionists outnumber the
non-abolitionists. Moreover, if
it were not for determined —and
extremely alarmed pressure
from informed sources, the
majority would probably have
been considerably more than
the recorded figure of 31. (By
a strange coincidence, the same
majority a year ago was regis-
tered against suspension.) Thus
the balance of public opinion,
as expressed by M.P.s, has
swung emphatically in a com-
paratively short time.
Sir Ernest Gowers’s investiga-
tions as chairman of the royal
commission on capital punish-
ment converted him into an
abolitionist. The experience of
recent Home Secretaries is also
significant. Morrison and Ede
are strongly against retention
which, when in office, they
supported ; and the present one,
Mr. Lloyd George, voted
against retention on a previous
occasion.
In the face of such powerful
conflicts, the lot of any Home
Secretary is unenviable—for his
advisers are vehemently opposed
to any reform which excludes
judicial hanging as a last resort.
Their fears are real and terrible
enough. How will recidivists
react when they know that they
won’t “swing” if they kill a
prison-officer? And how will
the authorities maintain dis-
cipline if prison-officers resign
in large numbers?
Meanwhile, the Government
is in a most embarrassing posi-
tion. It has a moral obligation
to honor the decision of the
House, but cannot introduce a
measure to which it is opposed.
So the Prime Minister has had
to compromise by allowing a
second reading to the bill.
Further complications will
ensue in the Upper Chamber,
for the Law Lords are strongly
abolitionist. At the same time,
the last thing that Lord Salis-
bury would welcome is a clash
between the two Houses. To
overrule the Commons on this
occasion might so incense the
Socialists as to alienate their
sympathy for evermore. This,
for the sake of their own future,
the Lords dare not do.
After MacMillan
Retail-trade has already begun
to feel the effect of the hire-
purchase restrictions. The
furniture-industry is not unduly
worried since, on a purchase of
£5O, the down-payment has only
increased from £7 10s. to '£lo.
But the radio and motor trades
are less happy. The potential
customer (probably already
committed to h.-p. contracts for
furniture and electrical appli-
ances) is not easy to find who
can put down £5O towards a TV-
set or £l5O towards a second-
hand car. There is bound to be
some distress among the small
dealers with little capital and
some unemployment in the
factories.
The general council of the.
T.U.C., though reasonable and
moderate in its advice to the
Government, has yet again
revealed its limitations. Without
indulging in Tory-baiting it
makes out that our present diffi-
culties are the direct conse-
quence of the removal of con-
trols. This is no more true than
the other allegation that indus-
trial investment is too drastically
cut. And the T.U.C., with one
eye on its members, also declares
itself against even a “temporary
slight fall in the standard of
living.” Our besetting inflation-
ary trouble is not unemployment
but a quite unhealthy degree of
over-employment. And it is
hard to see how excessive spend-
ing can be curbed unless people
go without something.
So far, the Chancellor has no
more than hinted at incentives
to saving but he has done noth-
ing to mop-up that portion of
the wage-packet which might go
to a further h.-p. instalment.
There is a pronounced need for
a realistic savings-drive, the
more particularly as the mone-
tary situation reacts adversely
against both those seeking to buy
houses on mortgage and those
who lend them the money.
Darkness and Light
“The Threepenny Opera”
(Royal Court Theatre) is fas-
cinating to the dramatic histor-
ian for it enables him to look
back nearly 20 years on an
experiment which served as a
pointer to “Porgy and Bess” and
to the “dark” musicals immedi-
ately after the war.
If Sam Wanamaker has toned-
down the seamy astringency of
the original (“Die Dreigro-
schenoper,” an adaptation by-
Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill of
our own “Beggar’s Opera”) he
contrives, mostly cleverly, to
impact an unwashed, flea-bitten
and “I’m -as - good -as - you”
aggressiveness to his production.
He spares us nothing: the sleazy
Peachum, the scruffy hangers-
on, the flamboyant trulls, the
gallows and the cross and
double-cross.
Much of the satire, aimed at
the disillusioned and decadent
Berlin of Christopher Isherwood,
is lost, but the bawdiness and un-
ashamed lack of principle have
a certain forthright honesty
which never offends. The actors
don’t quite rise to the cabaret-
type of projection required and
Mack the Knife (Macheath) is
miscast: here Bill Owen is too
perky, a Cockney sparrow rather
than a low-life peacock.
Daphne Anderson, though much
too well-scrubbed, gives splendid
presence to Polly, while Ewan
MacColl’s street-singer M.C. is
admirable for setting the atmos-
phere of lachrymose whimsy.
The music, performed on the
stage, calls for some virtuosity,
especially in doubling. It is not
so much jazzy as daep-
European, and is centred on a
trumpet of a peculiarly un-
noble timbre. Whether the
brilliant scoring is misspent is
entirely a matter of personal
opinion but the asthmatic dron-
ing of a harmonium is a lugu-
brious touch of great effect.
There is nothing forlorn
about “Summer Song,” the new
British musical at the Princes
Theatre. The music charms,
true love prevails and even the
shady characters share the
happy ending. Eric Maschwitz
and Hy Kraft have taken an
isolated incident in the life of
Anton Dvorak (his visit to a
Czech lumber town in Illinois
in 1893) as the basis of a plot
which is only a little less
dramatically effective than it is
far-fetched. Good Fairy Anton
smiles avuncularly upon a
Bohemian orphan and follows
her to Willow Falls, 111. By a
gigantic bluff at the poker-table
he saves her feckless uncle from
ruin. He outwits the un-
scrupulous local matriarch and
unites the star-crossed lovers in
New York —all, it seems, by way
of inspiration for the premiere
of his E Minor symphony.
Laurence Naismith’s perform-
ance as the composer is out-
standing a spry, chuckling
academician with a merry zest
for setting things aright. David
Hughes and Edric ConUor sing
splendidly. Sally Ann Howes
does not. Bonita Primrose
accepts all her chances in an
Ado Annie part. The dresses
are colorful, the ensembles in-
vigorating if a little too pro-
tracted and the production (by
Charles Hickman) meticulous.
Bernard Grun has shown
mercy as well as good taste in
his selection and arrangement of
the music (the famous largo is
dealt with briefly and spared a
reprise) and the orchestra has
strength, balance and sensitivity.
But gramophiles who own
recordings of Dvorak’s works
need have no fear that “Summer
Song” will make them out-of-
date.


V
i'* . " ‘
/:
VS?
,^-
> •-7 . «
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. C. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
\ Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shatc
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.101.13
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS’ prospects look more
promising than at any time since
this big group of drug houses got to-
gether 25 years ago in order to mitigate
the effects of aggressive competition,
reduce overhead and gain advantages
on the buying side.
But in realignment of prices to higher
yields, the f.-p. ords. now fetch 30s. 3d.
as against 31s. 9d. a year ago,
despite a lift of \\ p.c. in the
dividend-rate meanwhile. The return at.
3bs. 3d. is 5.4 p.c. on last term’s 8f p.c.
distribution, or 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
basis. On capital as increased
since the close of accounts, the pref. div.
and 10 p.c. to the ords. will call for
£205,998 less profit than was earned
last term. Still, until current reorganisa-
tion of the group, and the capital ex-
penditure connected therewith, are
out of the way, the dividend
policy is likely to be conserva-
tive. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 19s. 2d.
yield 6.3 p.c. On capital as it now stands,
net tangible cover is £62 2s. lid. prefs
and 30s. lid. drds.
Until recently results have been dis-
appointing. Though the ords. have
never failed to receive a div., the rate
has always been moderate, average for
the 24 years to close of last accounts
being a shade over 6 p.c., lowest 1£ p.c.
in 1933 and highest 8f p.c. last term.
Overseas competition was the trouble in
the early years. Then war gave the co.
new opportunities of which it made the
most. But price and other controls
held net earnings down, and continued
to do so well into the post-war era.
Profits, which had climbed to a satisfac-
tory £443,629 in 1951, shrunk to £178,491
in 1953, owing to a flood of imports and
need to reduce stocks at cut prices on a
contracting market.
The remarkable resilience of earnings
since has resulted from two' main factors
—expanding turnover and extensive in-
ternal reorganisation of activities,
which is still in progress. Modern and
more efficient equipment is being installed
and new- warehouses are being planned
along flow-lines. The co,’s multi-storied
stores in the heart of the main capital
cities are to be replaced by single-storied
units on suburban peripheries as oppor-
tunity offers. The cost of this part of the
programme should become largely self-
supporting through sale of redundant
city properties.
Despite heavy imports, turnover
(amount not stated) increased by 19 p.c.
last term, thanks partly to the growth of
the national health scheme and pre-
scription of more ethical products by the
medical profession. More heartening
was the leap of £211,756 (47.5 p.c.) in
net earnings, to which savings on account
of increased, plant- and managerial-
efficiency, etc., also contributed:
Diiug Houses and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1953 178,491 6000 6 p.c.=233,981 2,532,770
Written off intangibles, £567 .. .. 2,533,337
Tax overprovided, etc., £41,038 .. 2,574,375
Profit sale assets, £1998 .. ..2,576,373
Unexplained additions, £657 .. .. 2,577,030
1964 445,888 6000 7*p.c.=293,601 146,287 2,723,317
Share premiums, £21,666 .. .. 2,744,983
Tax overprovided, £5960 .. .. 2,750,943
Profit transfer assets, £270,910 ..3,021,853
Preliminary exes, w/off, £919 .. 3,020,934
Unexplained addition, £277 .. 3,021,211
1955 657,644 6000 8fp.c.=347,803 303,841 3,325,052
The provision for depreciation was
£107,229 (down £28,270) and for taxation
£341,483 (up £46,353). The record
£657,644 of profit covered the pref. div.
and 16.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
11.2, 4.4, 9.6, 13, and 10.6 p.c. back to
1950. The £270,910 of profit on transfer
of assets to a subsidiary was equivalent to
writing-up the book-value of freeholds
concerned by that amount. The div.
was gently jacked-up from 7% p.c. to 8|
p.c., money being wanted in the business.
Last term £2,206,793 net was spent on
freeholds and plant (up £536,740), stocks
(up £935,149) and book-debts (up
£734,904):
D.11.A. and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £3,999,687 £4,014,687 £4,058,021
Reserves .. 2,532,770 2,723,317 3,325,052
Outside interests. 3.517 2,456 8,946
Mortgages . . 49,147 79,637 648,798
Creditors, etc. .. 1,509,996 2,077,007 8,069,392
Tax reserve . . 177,180 301,096 347,708
Final div. .. 233,981 156,587 199,377
£8,506,678 £9,354,787 £11,657,294
Freehold, plant, etc. 1,462,200 1,807,977 2,344,717
Shares, etc. .. 267,089 277,154 284,900
Stocks . . . . 3,368,804 3,613,159 4,548,308
Book • debts .. 2,054,424 2,357,123 3,092,027
Cash, etc. .. 153,776 100,603 194,538
Suspense account. 44,814 82,952 24,521
Excess cost shares 818,393 823,391 823,274
Goodwill, etc. .. 337,078 342,428 345,009
£8,506,578 £9,354,787 £11,657,294
To help meet the outlay the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, including the
bank, was increased by £992,385 and
mortgages by £569,161. The addi-
tions to fixed assets were thus
financed mainly on mortgage, and
to current assets as to approximately
two-thirds on overdraft, etc., and balance
from surplus earnings and provisions.
Hitherto the policy has been to finance
expansion firstly on bank overdraft,
and then, as the position was consolidated
and earning-power developed, to issue
fresh share-capital and repay the over-
draft. The credit-squeeze has called for
modification of this policy. So, in Nov-
ember last, 498,443 new £1 ords. were
issued at par, one-for-eight. That lifted
paid capital to £4,556,464, of which
£lOO,OOO carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
No hint is given as to what the balance
of the reconstruction programme is likely
to call for, or if and yjhen shareholders
are likely to be asked for more.
Prospects of another good showing at
next balance look bright enough ; but
what the more distant future holds is
very obscure at the moment. Still, a
10 p.c. div. is a reasonable expectation
when the reorganisation is complete.
Hastings Diesels, Ltd.
TOEHIND the remarkable growth of this
** lusty youngster, now largest of its
kind in Australia, lies the energy and
enterprise of Harold Hastings Deering,
chairman and managing-director, and a
strong and growing demand for the trac-
tors and earthmoving and allied equip-
ment, etc., which the group handles.
Formed as recently as 1947 as an off-
shoot of Hastings Deerings Building, Ltd.,
the business was converted to a public
co. at the end of 1952. Paid capital was
then £325,000. The figure has since grown
to £2,000,000 by three new share-issues
at par, the last two of which were heavily
oversubscribed—in June, 1955, 300,000
new £1 shares were offered, and applica-
tions were received for 794,500 shares,
all of which were allotted. Also profit-
able employment has been quickly found
for new money, as evidenced by the
growth of net earnings and payment of
a generous \2\ p.c. div. for the last three
years.
And the business continues to
expand. To provide the extra
working-capital needed to carry
more stocks and book-debts and estab-
lish additional servicing-facilities, a fur-
ther 300,000 new £1 shares are now
offered at par, with priority of application
to existing shareholders. Making no
allowance for possible oversubscription,
the issue will raise paid capital to
£2,300,000, on which 12£ p.c. will call for
£85,359 more profit than was won last
term. Including the June, 1955, new
share issue, there will be over £1,000,000
of fresh capital at work to earn additional
profit, the 1955 level of which was equal
to 13.5 p.c. on average capital employed.
Two questions that arise are whether
the co. has overstretched itself, and how
long the 12£ p.c. div. will continue. For
the current term net earnings are likely
to be more than enough to pay p.c.
Beyond that point, all that can be said
definitely is that both profits and dividends
will remain very sensitive to prevailing
conditions, until substantial reserves are
accumulated to support and protect the
share-capital. The growth of the business
has been no greater than demand war-
ranted, the agencies held are first-class,
and the areas served all have a promising
future so far as development is concerned.
The policy has been to meet initial de-
mand as rapidly as possible, and so widen
and anchor goodwill, and at the same
time provide efficient servicing-facilities,
which promise to figure prominently in
future turnover. Considering the size of
its markets, and other factors, the busi-
ness now appears to be about fully-
grown, which means that the rate of
expansion during the years ahead is likely
to be comparatively moderate.
Chief agencies held are for the Cater-
pillar Tractor Co., U.S. (diesel tractors,
and earthmoving equipment), the John
Deer Co., U.S. (agricultural machinery),
Hyster Co., U.S. (winches, tractor-equip-
ment and industrial-trucks) and Baldwin-
Lima-Hamilton Corp., U.S. (cranes,
shovels and draglines). The areas covered
by the franchise are, for the three first-
named cos., Queensland, Northern Ter-
ritory, Papua, New Guinea and the south-
west Pacific Islands, and for the lastnamed
the whole of Australia. The co. also
operates the Hastings Deering Research
Reserves, a large cattle property along
the Fisk River south-east of Alice
Springs, which helps supply the Adelaide
market and is also a satisfactory profit-
earning venture.
For the year to August 31, 1955, turn-
over increased by £947,288, reaching
£3,829,200. The improvement in net
earnings was £84,201:
Hastings Diesels and Subsidiaeies.
To Re- Re-
August Profit. ( Dividend— serves, serves.*
31, £ £ £ £
Share-issue exps. -written-off, £3367 .. 14,639
1953.. 71,977 12* p.c. = 51,212 20,765 35,404
Share-issue exps. written-off, £24,789.. 10,615
To capital reserve, £1415 .. .. 12,030
1954.. 117,940 12* p.e. = 96,855 21,085 33,115
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £1764 .. 34,879
Deficit.
Less intangibles, £66,705 .. .. 31,826
1955.. 202,141 12* p.c. =186,301 15,840 15,980
* After deducting intangibles, £66,705 at 31/8/’55.
The £202,141 of profit was 13.5 p.c. on
average capital as against 15.2 p.c. and
17.5 p.c. for the two preceding years.
The decline in earning-power was due
to the rate of expansion and initial
expense inevitably associated therewith.
Capitalisation of the cost of the 1955 new
share-issue accounted for most of the
£66,705 of intangibles. When the books
closed £15,986 of the capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles.
The financial structure is comfortable
and well-balanced:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £028,455 £1,205,500 £2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 35,404 33,115 50,719
Mortgage .. . 69,996 57,740 65,972
Overdraft .. ~ 46,967 22,407 46,519
Creditors, etc. .. 357,821 128,075 210,853
Tax provision .. 32,015 63,343 81,385
Dividend .. .. 51,212 96,855 186,301
£1,211,870 £1,607,035 £2,631,749
Land, buildings ■.. 212,765 301,519 657,227
Plant .. .. 86,108 102,962 196,420
Investments .. 484
Stock .. .. 684,125 726,192 1,247,832
Debtors .. .. 218,868 467,305 553,724
Cash, etc. .. 3,270 9,057 9,357
Intangibles .. 6,734 66,705
£1,211,870 £1,607,035 £2,631,749
The £794,500 of fresh share-capital
gathered last term, and more besides,
went into land and buildings (up
£255,708), plant (up £93,458), stocks (up
£521,460) and book-debts (up £86,419).
Stocks appear at cost or under, and book-
debts less an unspecified provision for
doubtful debts.
The shares are not listed on ’Change.
Clifford Love & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
npHOSE on the register at October 24,
-*■ 1955, were handsomely rewarded
with a four-for-five bonus share-issue —
first thing of its kind since the public
became interested in the business some
34 years ago. The £336,872 involved
came mostly from share-premiums re-
serve and partly from a surplus of
£76,856 on revaluation of one of the
freeholds —the Kent-street, Sydney, pro-
perty. The issue has lifted paid capital
to £757,964, on which the board intends
to pay 7\ p.c., which is equal to 13.5
p.c. on capital as it stood before the gift.
For the seven years to the close of last
accounts the distribution was steady at
12i p.c.
Though the 7\ p.c. will require
£18,593 more profit than was claimed
last term, the cautious board is not likely
to have overcalled its hand. Net earnings
have yet to benefit from purchase of the
business of Stratton and Sons Pty.,
Cootamundra (N.S.W.), and from new
mills for production of rolled-oats and
cornflour, etc, erection of which is now
well-advanced. The Stratton business,
to be operated as a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, was bought just before the close
of accounts for £317,062, payment be-
ing in 116,500 f.-p. £1 shares issued at a
premium of 345. 6d. each. These shares,
which participated in the issue of bonus-
scrip, rank for dividend as from December
31, 1955.
The financial record and standing of
C. L. & Co. has been such, during bad
times as well as good, as to place its
shares in the category of a first-class food
equity. Since the public became interest-
ed the div. has been frozen at 10 p.c.,
to which a 2\ p.c. bonus was added in
the flush periods—during the half-dozen
years to 1930, and again in 1944 and for
the seven years to September 30, 1955.
The co.’s success in the difficult drygoods
field, where it turns out some well-
established proprietary lines, including
oatmeal, cornflour, starch, rice, essences,
etc., has been due largely to experienced
and careful control, comfortable finances,
efficient plants and an extensive goodwill,
valued at £72,500 in the books and worth
a lot more.
Of recent years demand for the co.’s
products, and hence its turnover, have
continued to grow. Also considerable
sums have been spent on expanding and
modernising the factories, enabling in-
creased output to be combined with more
economical operations. Rising wage- and
other costs, including prices for oats,
maize and other of the co.’s raw materials,
have gobbled some of the gains, of course.
Still, the moderate fluctuations in de-
clared profits suggest that there might
be a bit more wheat in the ear than the
eye can see:—
To Re-
Sept., Profit. f Dividends-^—serves. Reserves.t
1950.. 34,645 12* pc. = 30,491 4,154 229,314
1951.. 32,365 12* „ „ 30,492 1,873 231,187
1952.. 32,858 121 ~30,492 2,366 233,553
1953.. 34,022 12* ~ „ 30,492 3,530 237,083
Share premiums, £30,331 .. .. 267,414
1954.. 40,934 121 p.c. = 34,183 6,751 274,165
Added reserves, £277,818 .. .. 551,983
1955.. 38,254 121 p.c. = 38,074 180 552,163
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and
excluding depreciation provision, now £326,576.
After setting aside £26,000 (same as
previous year) for depreciation and
making “due provision” for taxation,
there was a slip of £2680 in last term’s net
profit, which was 12.5 p.c. on average
capital as against 15.7, 13.9, 13.4, 13.2,
and 14.2 p.c. back to 1950. The net
adition of £277,818 to reserves represents
£200,000-odd of share-premiums on scrip
issued in connection yvith the Stratton
deal and the surplus on revaluation of
assets already mentioned. In addition


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced Arm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 9445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE - MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
EttablUhed 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS^
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. Ji. E. MANION, Manager,
iiraiichea iii ail States Agencies in aU Country Centres
#
AwUHtMjM
6% per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years
Interest automatically re-invested annually
principal more than DOUBLES in 12 years, m’ore
than TREBLES in 19 years.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £4O/000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the issue: lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne and Sydney
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide
Perth - Hobart
58.1. M
T
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
LONG TERM
61%
SHORT TERM
5%
CUMULATIVE
PROSPECTUS
may be obtained from:
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of
E. S. & A.* BANK. LTD.,-
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LTD.
to the £552,163 of reserves shown
in the table, there is an accumu-
lated provision of £326,576 for
depreciation, some of which may
be genuine profit.
The year’s net addition of
£218,214 to fixed assets mainly
reflects progress with erection of
the new oatmeal and corn-flour
mills:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £304,592 £421,092
Reserves .. .. 274,165 552,163
Depreciation provi-
sion . . .. 301,646 326,576
Overdraft . . .. 45,421 162,725
Creditors, etc. .. 190,643 191,254
Final dividend .. 14,451 15,230
£1,130,918 £1,669,040
Land, buildings .. 278,432 427,736
Plant, etc. .. 384,744 453,654
Shares subsidiary. 287,462
Shares other cos. 20,144 21,4)45
Stock, etc. . . 250,393 216,298
Debtors . . .. 124,614 165,567
Due by subsidiary 24,666
Cash .. .. 91 112
Intangibles — .. 72,500 72,500
£1,130,918 £1,669,040
The appearance of shares in sub-
sidiary co. (£287,462) represents
the cost of the Stratton pur-
chase, less dividend from pre-
acquisition profit. So Strattons
paid £30,000, and probably
earned more. Stocks (in at
cost or replacement value) were
reduced by £34,095 and book-
debts increased by £40,953.
The net addition to the outside
debt was £117,915, all but £6ll
of which was in respect of the
overdraft.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the under-
taking by pricing the f.-p. £1
shares at 295. to give an immed-
iate return of 5.1 p.c. on a 7 %
p.c. div. basis. Including the
bonus share-issue but excluding
the depreciation reserve, net
tangible cover (book-value) is
28s. 9d.
Wilcox Mofflin, Ltd. (Syd.)
/CHANGES in the co.’s post-war
trading technique, and
development of its local manu-
facturing and processing interests,
have given earnings and divi-
dends more stability, and elimin-
ated much of the old speculative
element in the scrip as an in-
vestment.
Pre-war the co. used to trade
largely on its own account in the
wool, hides and furred-skins
markets. It is still a large buyer
in these markets, but its pur-
chases are nearly all on a firm
contract-basis these days, thus
eliminating the major risks asso-
ciated with falling markets. And
over the last decade it has set-up
a stock-foods and -medicines
factory, etc., at Botany (N.S.W.),
where a second tannery came
into production in July, 1953. A
controlling interest was bought
in Govan Industries Pty., a Mel-
bourne concern which makes
agricultural equipment and
veterinary instruments, and a
fellmongery and wool-scour is
operated at Fremantle. Similar
works are presently to be estab-
lished- at Botany, where land has
been bought for the purpose. An
import - merchandising section,
which handles French tractors
and other equipment, etc., has
not come up to expectations, and
the co. is gradually withdrawing
from this field. /
Excepting the last mentioned,
all the co.’s local interests have
steadily gathered strength* of
recent years. Net earnings have
kept more or less in step with
economic developments, and can
be expected to continue to do
so, the greatest influences being
fluctuations in wool prices and
rising costs. For the seven years
to mid-1951i, declared profits'
averaged 16.4 p.c. on capital, and
divs. 11.3 p.c. Corresponding
figures for the four years to the
close of last accounts —a period
which covered the collapse of
wool prices and subsequent
fluctuations—the corresponding
figures were 10.2 p.c. and 7.2
p.c. respectively. Net earnings,
however, have shown steady
annual improvement from the
low-point of 1952.
Last term turnover was well-
maintained, the effects of a 10-12
p.c. drop in raw-wool prices
being offset by improved results
in the stock-foods, etc., tanning,
fettmongering and wool-scouring
departments, and from the
Govan business. After allowing
£36,468 (up £6854) for depreci-
ation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation
and other contingencies, the
board figured net earnings £3779
better at £64,315:
To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. , serves.
£ £ £ £
’51.. 71,091 10 p.c.= 55,000 16,091 219,449
’52.. 40,123 5 „ „ 27,500 12,623 232,072
’53.. 59,255 8 „ „ 44,000 16,265 247,327
’54.. 60,536 8 „ „ 44,000 16,536 263,863
’55.. 64,315 8 „ „ 44,000 20,315 284,178
The £64,315 was 11.7 on capital
as against 11, 10.7, 7.3 and 12.9
p.c. back to 1951. The outlook
being uncertain, the div. was
kept at 8 p.c., and the £20,315
that remained lifted reserves to
£284,178, equal to 2s. 7d. per
ss. share.
Continued growth of local
processing activities, etc., is
reflected in net additions of
£37,956 to freeholds, etc., and
£12,169 to plant:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £550,000 £550,000
Reserves .. .. 263,863 284,178
Overdraft .. 718,129 929,136
Creditors, etc. .. 448,271 488,512
Suspense a/c. .. 6,645 4,503
Final div. .. 22,000 22,000
£2,007,908 £2,278,329
Freehold, etc. .. 344,262 382,215
Plant . . .. 262,416 274,585
Shares subsidiary. 12|531 12,735
Shares Other cos. * 19,103 19,103
Stock, etc. .. 1,125,922 1,299,472
Debtors .. .. 241,837 288,312
Cash .. .. 1,837 1,907
£2,007,908 £2,278,329
The bigger trading shows-up in
the growth in stbcks (up
£173,550) and book-debts (up
£46,475). To finance the outlay
the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £211,007 and increased
the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £40,241.
The f.-p. ss. shares, price of
which dropped from 7s. to a low
of 4s. lQd. during 1954, recently
fetched ss. 3d. The return at
ss. 3d. is 7.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, with satisfactory long-
term prospects—the size of the
overdraft is likely to stand in the
way of an early lift in the divi-
dend rate. Net tangible cover
is 7s. 7d.
Nauc \
Mindful of the erratic and
unusual occurrence of uranium
mineralisation in the Northern
Territory, the high cost of
mining, etc., there, and of the
uncertainty of markets for the
oxide after the price guarantee-
period runs out, NAUC has told
its shareholders that it would be
optimistic to expect cos. operat-
ing in the Alligator River area
to prove enough ore in time to
justify erection of a treatment
plant, and for the extraction and
marketing of the uranium-oxide
before the guarantee-period ex-
pires.
The board therefore urges the
Government to aid those engaged
in the industry by buying and
stockpiling ore of suitable grade
already proved, the aim being
to provide funds to continue
vigorous prospecting campaigns.
Meanwhile the co. has inspected,
and rejected, prospective new
uranium-bearing leases at Vic-
toria Hut and Cocker’s Well
(S. Aust.) and near Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), and consideration has
been given to “diversifying the
co.’s activities to preserve the
interest of shareholders.” Funds
available to the co. now exceed
£600,000.
Hot on the heels of the board’s
conclusions has come the offer
of the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority to buy about
£20,000,000-worth of uranium-
oxide produced from South Alli-
gator River ore, provided the
cos. in the area prove, by
the end of 1957, that they have
enough millable-grade stuff to be
able to stand up to the contract.
The price to be paid for the
oxide has not been made public,
so outsiders can only guess at
the total tonnage, and average
grade, of ore which has to be
proved before the U.K. offer
actually amounts to anything in
hard cash. NAUC says the
offer “gives the cos. in the area
the opportunity of selling, on
satisfactory terms, at least the
greater part of their anticipated
maximum output.”
Meanwhile, shareholders and
the market anxiously await a
joint statement from the cos. con-
cerned as to their prospects of
being able to prove the required
tonnage of ore, as well as the
Government’s reaction to the
stock piling suggestion. \
Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
Oil (Vic.) claims that the
absence of some lighter frac-
tions —gasoline and kerosene—
from oii met with in No. 2 well
at 1.320 ft. has been over-
emphasised. These fractions
would, it is said, account for
only about 20 p.c. of crude oil
tinder ordinary distillation tests.
After passing through 800 ft. of
hard jurassic shales, the drill
penetrated, from 5120 ft. to 5290
ft., coarse, jurassic sandstone
impregnated with paraffin and
very light oil. This, the board
says, opens a new chapter in the
search for oil in Victoria.
Samples have been sent to the
U.S. for analysis. It is too early
yet to talk about quantities..


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
In perfect weather 3000 guests strqlled
on the lush green lawns and admired the
flower-beds of Government House when
the Governor and Lady Brooks enter-
tained at the first of two garden-parties.
Lady Brooks wore with her stiffened-silk
frock patterned in a small grey flower-
pattern a picture-hat of mist-blue tulle
trimmed with dull-rose pink ribbon and a
large pink rose. The Premier’s wife,
Mrs. Bolte, also wore a picture-hat, hers
of the same shade of blue as the birds
and leaves patterned on her corn-gold
silk frock. The' Lady Mayoress, Lady
Selleck, chose a large black cartwheel-
hat, the brim fashioned of layers of tulle,
to go with her silk-shantung frock, which
featured a sunray-pleated skirt.
Mrs. John Carrodus wore a sheath-frock
of white linen embroidered in a scroll
design.; white roses trimmed her tiny
cap. Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s frock and
matching-coat were of white silk-surah
patterned with tiny black spots. Mrs.
“Bing” Molyneux also wore black-spotted
white silk, topped with a black straw
picture-hat. Mrs. Michael Keeble’s lovely
frock of cornflower-blue tie-silk was pat-
terned in tiny pink roses, her wide
platter-hat was in the same tonings. Her
mother, Mrs. Guy Smith, chose a beige-
silk ensemble and large feather-trimmed
hat. Mrs. Graeme Mollison wore bright-
blue silk patterned in white and a tiny
white straw toque. With her black silk
sheath-frock Mrs. Constance Day wore a
rose-pink straw platter-hat trimmed with
pink rosebuds.
For the second garden-party Lady
Brooks chose a white surah-frock etched
in grey-and-black design, the bodice
softly folded, the waist beltless ; her wide-
brimmed black crinoline-straw hat was
banded with black velvet. Lady Herring’s
dove-grey silk frock was worn with a
currant-red straw hat. Mrs. Bolte wore
over her black-and-grey shadow-printed
white nylon frock an emerald-green
accordion-pleated coat.
Floating-panels highlighted the slim
skirt of the grey-and-white-patterned silk
frock worn by Mrs. L. R. Buxton with a
picture-hat of black tulle. Mrs. A. G.
Hunter wore a sapphire-blue silk frock
flecked with white and a fine straw hat
in matching blue. Her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Robert Hunter, wore shell-pink
linen with a black picture-hat. Mrs.
Arthur Laver’s anthracite-grey silk-
shantung frock had a pleated skirt; her
small cap was of matching-grey velvet-
leaves.
Mrs. Frank Tait wore a crushed-
strawberry silk frock with a natural-straw
coolie-hat trimmed with tiny iridescent
shells. Mrs. Lionel Newton wore a
sheath-frock of cafe au lait guipure-lace
and a tiny matching hat. A black frock
with a royal-blue swathed toque was
worn by Mrs. Alfred Fowler, corded
black taffeta splashed with emerald-green
flowers by Mrs. Fred Dennett.
☆ ☆ ☆
The gala-dinner and fashion-parade in
the Myer Mural Hall was a brilliant
prelude to French, Fortnight, for all the
lovely clothes were from famous French
designers and were worn by the visiting
French mannequins. The Governor and
Lady Brooks were present (attended by
Col. R. H. Spraggett and Mrs. Spraggett);
also the president of the Queen Victoria
Hospital (which will reap the benefit of
the gala-night), Dame Mabel Brookes and
Sir Norman Brookes.
Knights in armor were at the door-
way. Draperies were in red, white and
blue, and the foyer, where cocktails were
served, was set as a drawing-room in the
time of Louis XIV. The stage-setting in
the Mural Hall was the Arc de Triomphe,
and the catwalk, where the mannequins
paraded, was a replica of the Champs
Elysees. Flowers in tricolor tonings were
set on the long official table.
Lady Brooks wore a magnificent gown
of magnolia satin embroidered in deep-
pink roses and green foliage. The
bodice was strapless, the skirt cut into a
wide N flare. She wore with it a long tulle
stole and a flat diamond tiara. Mrs.'
Henry Bolte’s gown of palest-pink chiffon
was shirred from waist to hem and carried
narrow black-velvet ribbon. Lady Selleck
wore a bouffant gown of ice-blue Chan-
tilly-lace, Mrs. Harold Holt a short frock
of candy-pink shirred-chiffon.
Mrs. James McGauran’s gown of
pale-mauve chiffon was embroidered
in silver. Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine’s pale-
blue organza gown was highlighted with
silver embroideries, Lillianne Wightman
chose a dramatic sweeping coat of junior-
blue-navy French-taffeta and a guipure-
lace frock in the same shade. Mrs.
Frank Marland’s short ice-blue satin
• strapless frock was trimmed with pearls
and rhinestones. Mrs. A. G. Silk wore
a short white embroidered frock, Mrs.
Norman Bennett pale-grey satins, with the
bodice heavily embroidered in silver.
Materials in the French fashions worn
by the mannequins were superb, the cut
and design most admirable. Evening-
coats of satin and taffeta were long and
sweeping—out of the question for the
theatre on a wet night. The jackets of
smart suits were either waist-hugging or
threequarter-length. The princess-line
was greatly in evidence, but afternoon-
frocks were notable for the width and
of the skirt.
Hats were either large or very small.
The high, swathed toque was seen in
numerous varieties. One, of beige
chiffon, perched high on the head, was
swathed and finished with one large red
rose in front. The large hat of moufflon
with its forward tilt was popular ; so was
the straw hat with a deep mushroom-
brim and swathed with chiffon. A large
ginger-brown tulle picture-hat was worn
with a white lace frock and an unusual
bolero-jacket.
Other fashion-notes garnered included
the posy of white lily-of-the-valley tucked
in the back of the bodice of a navy sheathi-
frock; the brilliant tangerine-silk frock
worn under a black coat lined with the
frock-material; the large white rose
nestling in the hem of the harem-skirt
of a black lace frock ; the sweeping white
organdie coat with a large posy of color-
ful field-flowers at the back of the
shoulders ; the numerous narrow frills of
white lace shirred on the very full skirt
of a white frock.
Jane Hennessey, of Armadale, as well
as working for the St. Catherine’s School
Building Fund, is president of the Wool
Ball committee, which comprises young
men and women who work all the year
for the Opportunity Clubs in the large in-
dustrial suburbs. Jane has been president
since November, 1954, after having been
lion, secretary for several years. The
committee’s first function of the year will
be the White and Gold dinner-dance at
Giro’s, all tickets for which have been
sold. The Wool Ball will be held later
in the year. Jane is artistic; there’s a
keen demand for the lovely necklaces and
ear-rings she makes.
The 14th Australian Dental Congress
was opened at the Town Hall by the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who was
accompanied by Lady Brooks. The vice-
regal guests were received by the presi-
dent of the congress, Dr. H. R. Cash, and
Mrs. Cash. In the colorful procession to
the platform were the Chancellor of the
University (Mr. Justice Dean) and Mrs.
Dean, the Vice-Chancellor (Professor G.
W. Paton) and Mrs. Paton, the Lord
Mayor (Sir Frank Selleck) and Lady
Selleck, the Premier and Mrs. Bolte.
Lady Brooks chose a full-skirted gown
of pink embroidered-nylon, and Lady
Selleck pale-blue French-lace draped at
one side of the full skirt. Following the
official opening, Dr. and Mrs. Cash wel-
comed guests at a reception in St. Kilda
Town Hall. Mrs. Cash wore a gown of
carbon-blue taffeta, made with a cross-
over bodice, finished with a bow at the
back. Dr. Kenneth T. Adamson (Federal
president of the Australian Dental Asso-
ciation) and Mrs. Adamson assisted in
receiving the guests.
SYDNEY
The main focus of attention at present
is upon fashion. Not only are Sydney
women concentrating on the completion
of their outfits for the autumn race-
meeting but mannequin-parades (some
showing genuine French models) are
popping-up as thick as mushrooms, and,
as well, a number of people prominent in
the international fashion-world have
arrived in Sydney during the week.
“Vogue” has sent its editor of “British
Export Vogue,” Miss Rosemary Cooper,
and from New York has come Miss Ellen
McCoole, a senior editor of “American
Vogue.” Their errand is to study Aus-
tralian needs and settings, so that those
of their readers who intend coming here
for the Olympic Games will be able to
see just what are the correct clothes to
bring. The clothes are to be photographed
on Australian models against Australian
backgrounds.
Mrs. Joy Smail is another visitor of
the fashion-world—from France. Mrs.
Smail was here in 1955 and arranged for
the manufacture in Australia of dresses
from French cotton-materials. The
clothes will be shown in connection with
the great exhibition of French goods at
the Royal Easter Show.
Many of the fashion-points mentioned
by these experts were illustrated at the
parade of French fashions, Les Trois
Hirondelles, at Mark Foy’s during the
week. Miss Cooper, for instance, wore
a raincoat of citrus-yellow, a color repre-
sented twice in this parade. She also
mentioned that all her hats were “up-
turned flowerpots or mushrooms.” These
were to be seen in great numbers, nearly
all giving the “heavy-hatted” look, and
all worn well forward on the forehead —
almost over the nose, in fact.
The line for winter that is being publi-
cised is the “straight and narrow,” or the
“narrow-as-an-arrow” look. This is not
strictly true. There is certainly a straight
line, but there is a great deal of bulk,
too —coats with capes, big collars and
attached stoles; tunics with lampshade-
skirts ; cocktail-dresses with full-blown
sleeves. Added to the large and furry
hats (it would not be a surprise if some-
one wears a busby to the autumn meet-
ing), these fashions give quite an over-
laden look.
In the parade at Mark Foy’s the domin-
ant colors . were black and red, some
green, odd bits of citrus-yellow and shock-
ing-pink, charcoal-grey and tobacco-
brown. The cross-over blouse, with the
low neck and elbow-length sleeves, is still
here (a very becoming and useful style).
Many jackets finish just below the waist,
and are buttoned up the back to high
necks. Skirts are mainly slim.
* 4- Q
There was a gathering of country clans
at the wedding of Norma Rhodes-White,
of Warrawee and Armidale, to Tony
Henderson, of Gorian, Old Burren, at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, on Friday night.
The bride wore white French-silk taffeta,
and the matron-of-honor (Mrs. W. A.
Carter, of Pera, Barraba) and the brides-
maids (Pat Newman, of Wahroonga, and
Kath Murray, of Turramurra) wore pale-
pink taffeta. Hugh Hamilton, of Illabo,
was best man, and Wal Williams, of
Moree, and John Hunt, of Rowena, were
groomsmen. Little Annabelle Toose and
Susie Toose were flower-girls. Reception
at the Pickwick.
☆ ☆ *
St. Swithin’s Church of England,
Pymble, which she attended as a student
of P.L.C., was chosen by Elizabeth Mor-
rice for her marriage to Arthur (Harry)
Carter on Thursday evening last. Eliza-
beth, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
G. E. H. Morrice, of Rannoch, Quirindi,
and formerly of Dalgety, wore cream
brocade with seed-pearl embroidery,
and was attended by her sister Barbara
(as junior bridesmaid), Hilary Lawes,
Rosemary Mountstephens and Anne
Carter. The bridegroom, who is the
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. L. D. Carter,
of Woorak, Pine Ridge, Quirindi, was
attended by Phillip Carter, Theo Hill
and John Lindeman. After the ceremony
—which was performed by Archdeacon
Arthur, of Canberra, who is an old friend
of the bride’s family—a reception for
150 guests was held at the Killara Golf
Club.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women hockey-players from nine
countries will visit Sydney for the 6th
triennial conference and tournament of
the International Federation of Women’s
Hockey Associations from May 20 to
June 3. There will be representatives
from England, Ireland and Scotland, Hol-
land, America, Canada, New Zealand,
India and South Africa—about 200 in
all, and making what is probably the
biggest sporting event of any one sport-
ing body in Australia. After the games
in Sydney the teams will go on tour
throughout Australia, at least' two teams
visiting each State, where they will play
local teams in capital cities and in
country centres.
Attractive Mrs. Clinton Ayres is presi-
dent of the Town and Country Ball, to be
held on March 28 at Prince’s. The pro-
ceeds of this ball, which is one of the
highlights of Show-time, will be devoted
to the Smith Family. Photo by Mont-
gomery Dunn.
To celebrate the conclusion of National
Opera’s highly successful country tour
a cocktail-party was held, on Saturday
evening at the Woollahra home of its
honorary-director, Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, at
which Lily Kolos sang songs by Schu-
mann and Schubert. Among the 150
guests were Philippines Ambassador Dr.
Roberto Regala and Madame Regala,
Dr. Agbayani (Philippines Cultural
Attache) and Madame Agbayani, Dutch
Consul-General Dr. Levelt and Madame
Levelt, Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Rundle
(Newcastle), Railways Commissioner Reg
Winsor (an excellent raconteur, by the
way), and Dr. and Mrs. K. Sternberg..
☆ ☆ ☆
The Playwrights’ Advisory Board
should go into the weather-forecasting
business. Last year it awarded the prizes
in its competition to “The Summer of
the Seventeenth Doll” (now commonly
called ‘The Summer”), which tied with
“The Torrents” and had “Flood” as a
runner-up.
“The Torrents,” by the way, was broad-
cast over 2BL on Monday, and “Flood”
will be broadcast from 2FC on March
17 at 8 p.m. Oriel Gray, who wrote
“The Torrents,” is the wife of Melbourne
journalist John Hepworth and the mother
of three sons: Stephen, Peter and
Nicholas. Eunice Hanger, author of
“Flood,” is a lecturer in English at Bris-
bane University.
# # #
The gala-preview of the film “Richard
III,” starring Sir Laurence Olivier, is due
at the Embassy Theatre on March 22 and
should be a very spectacular affair, as the
Embassy has a broad foyer where glam-
orous dresses will be seen to advantage.
The preview has been organised in aid of
the Totally and Permanently Disabled
Soldiers ; men of the three Services who
have made great sacrifices for Australia.
To help them, the film has been made
available by London Films and the
theatre by Hoyt’s. Those who are pre-
sent at the preview will be helping a
great cause, as well as spending a most
enjoyable evening.
☆ ☆ *
An exhibition of French tapestries,
stained-glass and theatre-decor will take
over the National Art Gallery from
March 22 to April 22, when the entire
Gallery collection will be off the walls
and stored. Special lighting is being put
in and will remain permanently in the
Gallery as a gift to the State. A
film- and lecture-theatre is being built
in one of the courts, temporary walls are
being erected to house the stained-glass
panels, and 15 scale-models of theatre-
decor will be similarly treated. The
Gallery is at present closed to the public
to allow carpentering and electrical work
to be done. It will be open again on
March 25 from 2 p.m.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES FRANK NEWBY-PRIDDICE
late of care of Miss Newby 25 Paul
Street Waverley.—TAKE NOTICE that
YERA MABEL ALICE NEWBY-
PRIDDICE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4728 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th May
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. W. BEGG,
BLACKMORE & CO., 10 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Mozart
Despite the atrocious humidity
of Melbourne’s weather, Mozart,
who wrote some of the world’s
loveliest music, continued to
draw crowds to the Town Hall
last week, , and Sir Bernard
Heinze succeeded in drawing out
of his orchestra and soloists
some lovely performances.
The highest marks went to
Roy White for his fine under-
standing of the Concerto No. 4
in E. Flat and the technical per-
fection of his playing. Another
gem was the “Symphony in the
Style of an Overture,” which the
orchestra had all to itself, and
in which it never faltered. Ex-
cellent as that was, however, it
was bettered by the Sinfonia
Concertante in E Flat Major,
in which Sybil Copeland, with
her violin, and John Glickman,
with his viola, played in sweet
unison with the orchestra.
The festival started with real
Mozartian cheerfulness and fer-
vor and held its head
high till it finally ambled to
a lame conclusion, tjie Uni-
versity and Conservatorium
choirs and the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra under the
Heinze baton giving a languid
interpretation of the Requiem.
Perhaps it was the weather, a
factor which never bothered
Mozart.
* ♦+< *
“Picnic”
This piece by William Inge,
put on by the Union Theatre
Repertory Co. at Melbourne
University, is
of belonging to the Street-car
Named Desire” school of drama,
with the Kinsey Report as its
inspiration.
It is about an extraordinarily
ordinary set of people existing
in a sordid backyard between two
small-town Kansas houses, the
men hoping against hope that
something wonderful will turn-
up some day in the way of
adventure, and the women yearn-
ing and yearning for some
wonderful lover who will snatch
them out of their spiritual
squalor.
The lover arrives in the shape
of a hobo, an enormous hulk
of a man with hands like hams,
muscles like a wrestler’s and the
brain of a bull-ant. The
prettiest girl in the ensemble
promptly falls in love with him,
and her feeling endows the poor
mutt with all the qualities of a
Socrates, a Shakspeare and a
D. H. Lawrence.
Finding that he has to live up
to this part, he fortifies himself
with bootleg whisky and gives
himself sufficient courage to se-
duce the girl at a picnic, howling
with remorse five minutes after.
At the same time a spinster
schoolmarm with a very bad
neurosis succeeds by the same
means in leading a timid little
snopman to the altar. Even-
tually, the hobo goes off, fol-
lowed by the girl.
Ray Lawler deployed his best
reserves of talent on the produc-
tion, and it was well acted by
June Brunell, June Jago, Jane
Casson, Malcolm Billings, Peter
Batey, Noel Ferrier and Pamela
Greenall. It lived in a,way, and
people are no doubt like that;
but surely it is a playwright’s
business to go a bit deeper than
Dr. Kinsey.
❖ ❖
Insect Life in Canberra
Sam Spewack’s “Under the
Sycamore Tree” is being pro-
duced for Canberra Rep. by Ric
Throssell. It is called a comedy,
and looks like a satire at times,
but it is funny rather than mor-
dant. Like “The Skin of Our
Teeth,” it has a certain “home-
made” quality which gives
amateur performers all sorts of
handicaps to overcome. The
Canberra cast largely does so,
before a good set by Bob
Warren, and in very imaginative
costumes designed by Jackie
Ryan.
The production is intelligent
over all, but details like pace
and continuity should be looked
to.
Joy Warren is a very shapely
and sympathetic Queen, even
though she does not act all the
time. Stan Davies pairs well
with her, and underlines the
fantastic quality of the play with
great verve and insight. Neil
Truscott, rather too masticatory,
was consistent and complete as
the Chief Statistician. Pattie
Ryan, with almost three roles,
captured them all cleverly. Harry
Schmidt made a delightfully
apopletic General.
F. M. T.
'* * *
“Hedda Gabler”
If London theatre-behavior
can be taken as a guide, we afe
in for a return to Ibsen. Mai
Zetterling’s triumph as Nora
proclaimed that “The Doll’s
House” is not a dated theatre-
piece, possessing historical in-
terest only, and Peggy Ashcroft’s
“Hedda” played to standing-
room for months on end. Lately
“The Wild Duck” was revived at
the Saville.
To open the Queensland
repertory season, Brisbane Arts
Theatre chose “Hedda,” but the
gentleness of approach reduced
the fiercely-drawn study of ruth-
less and opposing wills to a
watercolor copy of Ibsen’s bold
study in sombre oils. The two
women, Hedda and Thea, were
too close in vocal-range and
-texture, whereas every aspect of
them should be violently
opposed. And this George
Tesman was altogether too
ineffectual.
The brute sensuality of Brack
that presents a real challenge to
Hedda was toned-down to a
sneer and a gesture. One felt
that Vivienne Campbell and Alan
Denby could have been gal-
vanised into giving at least
adequate performances of Ibsen’s
striking characters, but the
timidity of approach towards the
whole production permitted them
no opportunity.
For all that, it is good to see
Ibsen restored to the repertory,
and the cluttered set seemed an
admirable one for an English
Ibsen.
V. V.
* * *
Sydney University’s Pro
Musica Symphony Orchestra
opens the University’s music-
season tomorrow (Thursday) in
the Great Hall with a Mozart
Violin Concerto, Haydn’s
“Clock” Symphony, Prokofieff’s
“Classic” Symphony and
Walton’s “Siesta.”
Artbursts
J. W. Maund
J. W. Maund’s watercolors at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries are
considerably more finished than
those he exhibited a year or two
ago ; less sketchy, warmer and
clearer in color, more firmly
transposed into patterns,
smoother in total effect. In fact,
though still light on drawing, he
has made an admirable com-
promise between the smooth
washes of his earlier style and
the later tenuous “impres-
sionism.”
He deals in the massive hills
around the Hawkesbury, tower-
ing over light-filled or shadowy
“It's sticking its beak out again."
waters; farmlands and their
attendant sheds and trees ; and,
not so successfully but with a
note of drama, storms over the
coastline —in all, a quiet, gently-
attractive distillation of an
attractive countryside.
Open-air Show
Melbourne “Herald’s” open-air
exhibition in the Treasury
Gardens amounts to a parade of
fashions —some dated Royal
Academy, 1890; some Paris,
1910 or 1930 ; some a little later ;
none, however, that could be
called eternal.
The primitives in the exhibi-
tion are the pussycat-painters
from East Malvern or Gunn’s
Gully who are innocent of any
training. They at least don’t
think of themselves as artists;
and how the one who screwed
Meccano bits - and - pieces to-
gether to make a tower
that looks in immi n en t
danger of falling over could think
of himself as a sculptor is more
than present viewer could
imagine. If this .is sculpture,
what is the TV-tower which can
be seen raking the sky in the
distance, and which was erected
by craftsmen who would never
imagine that they were sculptors?
The TV-structure is infinitely
more graceful, and certainly
looks as if it would stand up,
even in a cyclone.
And if the two colossal figures
suffering from an acute form of
scarlet-fever are primitive expres-
sions of natural talents, why are
they so remarkably like Paris
fashions before World War 1,
when sculpture first began to go
ga-ga?
M. G. S.
<£♦
Drawings and prints are be-
ing shown at the Peter Bray
Gallery by Melbourne Contem-
porary Artists. Generally, their
drawing is better than their
painting—there are fewer oppor-
tunities for making mistakes in
the less-complex medium. The
drawings of buildings by Richard
Scales, are rather charming,
though no better than any archi-
tectural draughtsman’s. George
Bell draws two nudes with a line
that has some feeling, and Geoff
Jones and Lesley-Lawson draw
theirs with a line that is thor-
oughly academic and has no feel-
ing whatsoever. Anne Mont-
gomery has some boats which
are quite nice.
Talkies
“The Beach” (Melbourne and
Sydney Savoy): The point of
this Italian comedy can be seen
coming well in advance, and it
isn’t much of a point; but the
working-out is clever and amus-
ing.
A charming young lady
arrives at a seaside-resort in the
Riviera with the daughter she
has borrowed from a convent.
She attracts the attention of all
the naughty husbands and
alarms the jealous wives, but
remains as white as a lily and
devoted to her child. The
bachelor mayor falls chival-
rously in love with her, and is
the only man to remain faithful
to her when the police reveal
that she is a streetwalker from
another district.
The whole town, including the
husbands who have been trying
to, seduce her, turn their backs
on her, and she is ordered out
of the hotel. The mayor offers
to protect her, but his prestige
isn’t sufficient to carry the day.
The local millionaire, a sour old
gent whom everybody is court-
ing for his boodle, then comes
to the rescue. Though long past
the age of dalliance, he takes her
under his wing and his money
gives her the respectability she
wants.
Martine Carol is the young
lady, and is so demurely lovely
that her seamy past takes
imagining.
“House of Bamboo” (Sydney
Plaza): Robert Stack, as a U.S.
Army investigator, joins a
racketeering gang on forged
papers to trace the murderers of
an Army man during a train
hold-up. The setting is post-war
Tokyo, and its bustling byways
and surrounding countryside
have been beautifully photo-
graphed in color and Cinema-
Scope. The plot is fair enough
until it goes for a bellow-
dramatic finale in a hurricane of
bullets. Robert Ryan and
Cameron Mitchell, as the two
top gangsters, and a charming
Japanese, Shirley Yamaguchi,
head a good cast.
“The Blue Continent” (Sydney
Savoy): Ten - thousand hours
logged underwater by a team of
Italian.skin-divers, and 200,000 ft.
of film they took in the
Mediterranean, have gone into
making this entertaining,
instructive and exciting docu-
mentary. The color-photo-
graphy has naught such fascinat-
ing aspects of life in the teeming
depths as great schools of fish
flashing in instantaneous
manoeuvres in response to some
’radarlike control, and the film is
crowned by a battle-royal
between three spear-gunmen and
a devil-fish measuring 12ft.
across and weighing 10001 b.
“The Lieutenant Wore Skirts”
(Sydney Regent): As in “The
Seven Year Itch,” Tom Ewell
carries practically the full
burden of the comedy in this
uproarious nonsense about an
ex-airman who, after his wife
has, by a misunderstanding, re-
enlisted and been sent to Hawaii,
follows her there and uses some
old-soldier stunts to get her
discharged. Part of the fun
stems from his frantic efforts to
steer her clear of the numerous
, “wolves” infesting those regions.
Ewell uses a wide range of
comical expressions to support
his more subtle comedy. Sheree
North lends nice physical
support.
“The Second-greatest Sex”
(Sydney Capitol): The members
of it, living mostly out of their
native Kansas town in the
’eighties and carrying on a
series of feuds with hombres in
near-by towns, are, naturally
enough, confounded in the end
by the fed-up members of the
Greatest Sex. The women
achieve their aim by adopting
the stratagem of the Grecian
women who, to bring their
eternally-warring men to their
senses, barred all home-
comforts. There are tuneful
songs set to snappy lyrics, some
first-class acrobatic dancing and
a hero who, for a change, sings
in a manly baritone —in short,
all the ingredients of a good
musical. Jeanne Crain leads the
G.S. to victory.


The Duck Farm
By JUDITH WRIGHT
FOR six years, ever since the
Farleys had moved into
. their smart outer-suburban
home, James Farley had
felt querulous about the Duck
Farm.
Astute and experienced in
matters of property, he had
chosen his suburb well; since
he had bought land and built,
values had gone up steadily. Bush
and broken fences had given
place to modem fashionably-
designed houses, a shopping-
centre had been planned and was
already partly completed, there
was a new school, a pre-school
centre, even a well-kept newly :
planted park. Only the Duck
Farm had refused to alter.
James Farley had called once
on the owner—old Hughie, as the
children called him—with an
offer—quite a liberal offer —for
the building and the thirty acres
of land that stayed obstinately
weed-grown and tree-covered
among neat allotments. He had
not stayed long. Since then, the
sheds had grown older and
shabbier, the wire-netting en-
closures more rusty and tumble-
down, and the old house had
toppled gradually, on its stilt-
high stumps, more and more to
one side. Old Hughie, too, had
grown queerer, had shouted more
and more at the passers-by
(strange things that made the
women cross the street and the
men nudge each other and the
children run or throw stones).
Now Hughie was gone, taken
away officially by two men in a
vehicle that was either an ambu-
lance or a police-van; the
neighbors had not noticed his
going soon enough to make quite
sure which it was, though they
crowded to their fences in the
dark to peer after it. James
Farley, driving past to the city
at eight-thirty in his neat sedan
(his wife drove the blue sports-
car) began to hope that some-
thing might now be done about
the Duck Farm.
Quite apart from the waste
that irked him at the sight of
its ill-fenced acres, now so out-
of-place between the Willings’
bungalow in coral-pink and grey
and the new brick house that was
being built for Stellis, of Stellis &
Dalmann, he felt its very pre-
sence (remembering his reception
by old Hughie years ago) as one
feels the not-yet-blunted point of
the memory of some social
blunder, some slight but humili-
ating loss of prestige.
It was this personal involve-
ment with the Duck Farm that
made his hands wince a little
on the steering-wheel when,
driving home that evening, he
noticed the truck-load of house-
hold oddments drawn-up outside
its broken picket-fence. Worse
and worse! for the truck was
shabby and thick with country
dust, the furniture heaped on the
footpath scanty, and old—a mere
collection of rags and sticks,
James thought—and on the neat
pavement outside the gate two
grubby children snatched a ball
from each other.
Who were these people? His
Wife did not know. Old Hughie’s
neighbors of years ago had sold
out or died, and no one now
knew if he had any relatives.
James, driving past next day,
measured the house with a look
that kept something in it of his
sub-commercial rage with, old
Hughie’s obtuse insultshe
drew the sedan carefully into the
kerb and pulled-up. Walking
back along the footpath, he
glanced around hastily to see if
any acquaintance was watching,
and went in through a gap in the
grey pickets, for the gate was
off its hinges and wired to the
fence.
A choko-vine scrambled up the
house" and made a deep green
shade, behind which the cave
between the tall stilts looked dark
and cool. He paused a moment
and peered in. The space was
piled With old timber jagged with
nails, a worn-out kitchen sink, a
tin bath full of holes, paintless
sulky-wheels, dried har-
ness. James looked lightning at
this collection. Then, raising his
eyes, he saw what for a
moment a plaster statue watch-
ing him from behind a pile of
car- parts, and at the same time
knew it to be a girl.
TPHE pallor of the grimy white
dress, the arms and hands
and straw-pale hair, the colorless
eyes unmoving in the gloom as
she stared had startled
him so that his heart gave the
painful little jerk which always
made his hand rise involuntarily
to comfort it.
She turned and slipped away
towards the back of the house as
his eyes reached hers, and guiltily
he turned up the front-steps, feel-
ing that he had been caught
spying. It had made him un-
certain, taking away some of the
angry assurance with which he
had come in.
On the high railed-in veranda
he paused again. There were two
doors, but both were closed with
that irrevocable blankness of
doors long unopened. The
veranda had holes in its flooring.
Beside the rail the choko-vine
spilled down again to the
floor ; and as he stood, there was
a sudden movement among the
leaves; a hand shot out and
grabbed his ankle and a voice
cried “Got you!” Again his
heart plunged painfully and his
hand rose. It was a boy of per-
haps twelve years old, fair as
his sister.
“Don’t do that!” James cried
angrily, pulling away. “Don’t
you realise you might make a
person fall downstairs, doing
such things? Where’s your
father?”
“God knows,” the boy sang,
retreating further under the
shelter of the vine. “If you want
the old sod, you go and ask God ;
God knows, He knows, He
knows.”
“Is your father —you don’t
mean he’s dead, do you?” James
had not yet recovered assurance.
“Not that I know of,” said the
boy. “Saw him at breakfast.”
“Then may I see your
mother?” James said desperately.
He did not want to retreat.
'Hie boy said nothing, but
pointed. James turned and saw
at the foot of the stairs the girl
in white. She could not be more
than eighteen, he thought . . .
“You can’t get in that way,”
said the girl. “The doors are
both jammed. What is it you
want?”
James turned back down the
steps. He had been thoroughly
put-off, he felt almost humbled.
And he would be late at the
office. “I thought I would see
your—see the man of the house
—for a moment. But it isn’t
urgent. I can call again.”
“Father’s not here; but you
can see Mother if you want,”
the girl said. “Stop that, Dennis.”
Dennis was pulling at the up-
rights of the rails, and they
were giving as he pulled.
She walked round to the back
of the house, and James followed
in silence. A tall woman scraped
food-plates on to a piece of tin,
and the scraps were daintily
eaten by a pair of grey old milk-
ing nannies and their kids.
“Someone to see Father,” said
the girl, and stood aside. James
felt her eyes on them both,
watchful and tense, as the
woman laid down her plates
and turned.
It was—there was no mistaking
that face —Belle Maudsley.
TT was twenty-five years since
Belle had left school, but he
had not forgotten her.
“Belle,” he said. His heart
had given that jerk for the third
time that morning. It was bad
for him.
The woman did not know him.
“I had no idea you were here,”
he said, taking in a deep
breath, breathing consciously
and carefully because of his
ft
heart. You don’t remember
me? Jim Farley—we were at
school together. You were
friends with my elder sister
Kate.”
“Oh, Kate.” She smiled. “Yes,
I know you now. Well, what is
it?” The goats fought jmd
nuzzled against her, licking at the
plates with flat pink tongues.
Just for a moment James could
not remember at all what he had
come for.
“I was passing,” he said fool-
ishly. “I wondered who had
come into the house—you under-
stand, it’s been empty since the
old man left —so I”
She waited till he stumbled to
an end, but she spoke quite
amiably. “That was my hus-
band’s father —Old Hughie, he's
called round here. He probably
won’t be back. My husband and
I —Furnier is our name, by the
way—are here to see to the place
for a while.”
James was pleased at this. He
found himself taking ha* up
quite eagerly. “So you’ll be in
charge here? It’s very run-down,
of course, but it could be a
valuable property. As a matter-
of-fact I know of someone who
was considering buying it at a
fair price ; if you could get your
father-in-law to consent to a
sale—or your husband, if it’s in
his hands,” he added, as he saw
the girl’s finger mockingly
raised to her forehead. “I could
arrange it for you. This is a good
suburb nowadays, and you must
have thirty acres here. It would
certainly be worth your while.”
But there was no answer. Belle
watched him vaguely; the girl
watched them both. Belle had
always looked like that, dreamy,
untouched. She was still so like
the image that had remaine’d in
his mind, it was as though he
had merged past with present.
Other women altered with years,
grew hard or soft, lo'oked careless
or too much cared-for, but did
not keep what Belle had kept,
wild, troubling, and somehow, he
thought, virginal the look of
youth.
“We don’t stay long any-
where,” Belle said at last, shak-
ing her head. “This will belong
to my husband, later on, but I
think he will keep it as it is. He


7
ENVEIAPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland's premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5g ins. x 3j ins.,
6S x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [JJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturini Stationers and Printers
304-308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
or
fi
: * •
m
1
fi
9
If?
•v
R .* »ot rLt o si
K 8.159.32
so has
K.Bjhas always been good—but now
with this new brew it is even better.,
Buy/it *. . try it .. . you’ll like it.
Brewed and bottled by
T§3IH & CO. LIMITED
may want it, you see —to come
back to.”
James felt set-back. But it was
late ; he must not stay. If he
couldn’t, later, talk Belle’s hus-
band into sense about the land,
he was not the businessman
he thought himself. “May I
come in again and meet your
husband? I should really like
to have a talk with him about
the land ; my friend was quite
anxious to buy. And — I’d
like to see you again, too. Old
times, you know.”
She turned away from him
and from the motionless girl
who seemed to jeer at them both,
pushed aside the crowding goats
and gathered up the clean-licked
plates from the ground. “Come
in any afternoon; you’ll pro-
bably find him here. Goodbye,
Mr. Farley.”
Mr. Farley. He went back to
the gap in the fence, alone.
Dennis had vanished and neither
the girl nor Belle had moved to
show him out. All day the
house and his encounter with it
kept returning to his mind. He
could not get rid of it.
TIE did not go back that after-
noon, nor the next, telling
himself that to seem too eager
would raise the price of the land ;
but he was conscious of the place
as he passed, as though it
watched him. He had not told
his wife of his visit, simply be-
cause he did not know what to
say about it; and since they
prided themselves on having no
secrets from each other, this
increased his uneasiness until it
nagged like a pain at his heart.
When he pulled the car in
again to the footpath not
directly outside the house, but at
a little distance—he could see
the man leaning against the stair-
case ; and as James walked
through the pickets he could see
that the man was whittling at
a piece of wood, quickly and
with skilful strokes. Dennis
sat in the straggling brown grass
near by, drawing with a stump of
black pencil on a bit of brown
paper, supported by a broken
packing-case.
The man looked at James with
a shallow glance that seemed to
come only from the surface of
his attention. His hair, too, was
pale, like the children’s, and he
had the neat alertness of a fox.
“Are you looking for me?”
“Farley’s my name,” said
James nervously. . . “I knew
your wife years ago. Perhaps
she told you I called-in, some
days ago?”
He held out his hand indeci-
sively. It was strange how the
Duck Farm seemed to negate
all his carefully built-up person-
ality ; already his adulthood
had vanished and he felt a boy
again, too young and awkward
to interest Belle Maudsley,
smiling placatingly with sweaty
hands.
The man dropped the wood
into his pocket and took James’s
hand, but not soon enough to
save it from feeling exposed and
rejected.
“I wanted to see you because
. . .” James pulled himself to-
gether quite angrily. He was
James Farley of Farley & Match-
wade, and the memory of this,
and of the pleasantly lettered
brass-plate at the office entrance
that he still read every morning
as he went in, turned him back
into a man again.
“I’m interested in seeing this
suburb go ahead. I’m not
exactly an estate-agent, though
my business has to do with pro-
perties ; but living here as I do,
I’ve thought—ah, once or twice —
that this land really needs de-
velopment. I understand from
Mrs. Furnier that you are prac-
tically the owner?”
“The Dad’s not dead yet,”
Furnier replied. He had taken
the wood from his pocket and
was working on it again.
“I’m merely making prelimin-
ary inquiries. Of course I can’t
promise a purchaser, but I have
a friend who—as I say, I think
the place has possibilities.”
“Look, Mr. Farley,” Furnier
said. “It’s no use coming to me,
and I think we may as well have
that straight. You know whefe
the old man is? He’s in the
asylum ; he may come out or he
may not, but we won’t chisel
him out of the place yet awhile.
I lived here when I was a kid,
and whoever sells this place, it
won’t be me. We’ll be moving
on, but we’ll be back some day.
You’ll say I’ll be paying rates
for nothing, if the Dad dies ;
well, that’s my affair. I’ll keep
the place, and I’ll keep it as it is.
That’s all you want to know,
isn’t it?”
James was silent. He had
handled this badly; he had
established a wrong relationship
with the client, he thought,
though it was his motto in busi-
ness never to let a sale fall
through for lack of personal
contact. It was that damned
nervousness that the Duck Farm
had engendered in him. Well, it
was too late now.
“You’re sure you won’t re-
consider that?” he asked hope-
lessly.
Furnier shook his head
pleasantly. James could .think
of no more to say; but he did
not want to go, for that would
leave him with no excuse to
come in again. Perhaps Belle
would come if he waited? He
hesitated, regretful and un-
certain.
“Making something?” he
asked, looking at the bit of wood
—A ship? The bridge of a
violin? —on which Furnier was
working.
But Furnier only nodded
again. “Mustn’t keep you,” he
said gently ; and James turned at
once to go.
As he went he glanced down
at Dennis’s drawing. It was
a sketch of James himself —trim,
tidy, ridiculous hat in hand, at
the head of a flight of stairs,
with a hand stretched from
among leaves to trip his ankle.
For some reason James felt tears
pricking behind his eyelids as
he tried to make a businesslike
getaway. He knew he could not
come back.
A week later he saw the girl
again. He had been to the
opening of the new bowling-
green —in fact, he had been an
important figure there, a large
subscriber to the funds, a speech-
maker on the occasion.
Dusk was falling as he came
but to his car parked beside the
road. He saw the girl near the
car, and said good-night abruptly
to his companions, for she was
clearly waiting for him. Again
he had felt his heart give that
familiar jerk.
The girl smiled at him. She
was differently dressed, and this
somehow disappointed him,
remembering the white dress and
braided hair that had given her
so sculptured an air that day.
Now she wore a gay cheap frock,
and her hair was tied at the back
of her head ; she looked like any
other girl.
“Hello, Mr. Farley. So Dad
scared you off?” She stood with
one hand on the car, as though
it were hers.
He shook his head. “He
wouldn’t discuss it at all. A
pity ; I should have liked more
of a chance to convince him.”
“Ah, he’s notorious.” She
sounded rather proud of it,
though she mocked. “He
doesn’t believe in money.”
“Doesn’t believe in money?”
James was surprised. “What
does he believe in, then —ex-
change, barter?”
The girl laughed. “You’re
taking me the wrong way. I
mean he doesn’t believe in
making it; or only just enough
to get along. We’ve been on the
track ever since I can remember
—since my mother died and he
married Belle. That’s all right
for him —and her, if she likes
it; a job fencing or fruit-picking
and the truck and a tent to
camp in. But it’s not my idea of
living—not any longer.”
So she was not Belle’s
daughter? Somehow this made a
difference, separated her from
the Furniers, made her a pos-
sible ally. He pondered her.
“What about the younger
ones? Do they like it?”
“Oh, Dennis is the spit of Dad,
though they don’t always get on.
And the others are too young to
worry. It’s not that he’s lazy,
you know; he works hard
enough when he wants to. It’s
a —a principle with him. Sort
of religion. He’s obstinate
about it.”
“But you don’t want to live
that way now? Tired of the
life?”
“I’m eighteen,” she said
resentfully. “You’d think I’d
want something more than that
—a bit of city life, to see some-
thing that isn’t a tent or a gum-
tree. I’d like a job—something
in a shop, perhaps. If we lived
here I could get one easily. But
what’s the use? They’ll be
moving off again as soon as Dad
gets the itch. Still,” she added,
on a quieter note, “I’ll tell you
one thing. Granddad died last
week. Dad’s the owner now. He
could sell that place tomorrow.”
“But he won’t,” James said.
The girl swung one foot, half-
sitting on the side of the car.
“Not if you ask him, he won’t.
And not if I ask him. But I
know a Way I could get him to
sell, for ail that.”
“What way is that?” James
looked her over, seeing her now
apart from the Duck Farm, alien
to its life.
“That’s telling. How much do
you want it?” She had slipped
off the car and come closer,
lowering her voice.
James shrank back. For an
instant he had felt betrayed, as
though he himself were the
victim of this conspiracy.
“I don’t know that I do want
it,” he began; but at this the
remembrance of Belle’s indiffer-
ence, of Farmer's glance, of
Dennis’s drawing returned, and
the remembrance of the neat
reckoning he had made of the
possible profits to be got, by
shrewd handling, out of those
thirty-acres.
“You want it, all right,” the
girl said, watching him. “Well,
for fifty-pounds and the offer
of a job in the city, you can
{Continued on page 23)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/.
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
mi? pimps ME* l
stifiiii-
SANDERS!
g^FILEt;
Correspondence, invoices,'
statements, etc., filed in the
"Senders" can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect boolr of reference aX
the end o( each month —Of
*K£Z»C&
Prices and fof*
ther infer matma
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agenlt—
MELBOURNE , . Norm.D Bro». til- Lt 4.
ADELAIDE . . . Verdon Price Ltd,
PERTH . j T , Deckel B©*k C*
a peartree bride
by
Ray
mathew
THEY’VE been telling you
that Australia has no
magic and no tradition,
only a history. But magic
is only what you (and I, and the
other people) believe comes true.
And what’s tradition? It’s only
history the way that people
remember it.
Why, even Gungahla, my own
town, the place I was born in,
had its pear-tree brides. There’s
a tradition: memory and magic
as true as your English kind.
But then Gungahla, even
Gungahla, is full of that sort
of thing, though you mightn’t
expect it. What you expect are
flies and heat, and you certainly
get them: a sheep-and-wheat
area, very small holdings, a town
like tuppence. You don’t expect
much.
Neither do the locals. The
way they say Dead Man’s Plain,
Dog-and-duck Creek, Lovebirds’
Hill, you’d think the names
meant places and nothing else.
But, even so, everyone
remembers and the indifference
is only a surface. It’s just that
they don’t need to shout about
these things because they know
them and take them for granted ;
they fit in. Only Helen Millaney
and I needed to talk about names
and qualities, views and
memories. And I was a boy, and
Miss Millaney was mad.
The only tradition the others
seemed to talk about at all was
the pear-tree bride. And that
seemed too practical and to-the-
point to interest a mad woman
and a boy.
Our town, Gungahla town, is
a kind of a joke: a great wide
street with a railway down the
middle of it: nothing on one
side but the school and the silo ;
and on the other side the store,
the hall and the three cottages
where the railway people live.
The railway people eat rabbit,
you know, and that makes them
different from Gungahla people.
All that’s important in the
town is the store, for mail and
gossip, and the school (because
the teacher’s a stranger and the
kids bring home gossip), and the
hall where there’s sometimes a
dance or a meeting and a good
chance to gossip. And outside
the hall, just through a window,
hangs the pear-tree.
The story about it is like one
of Mary Gilmore’s poems that
you ought to read. There was
a girl who was a bride, and she
hanged herself with a rope, a
long time ago, before the hall
was built. And the story says
now that girls getting married,
girls to be brides, will see her
—the white of her dress —there
in the pear-tree.
Beautifully enough, they
always do, Gungahla girls. They
always see her, though to tell
the truth on moonful nights
when the tree’s in bloom it’d be
very hard not to see white. But
in any case their story is the
other, the stranger one. And
though no one believes them
(“It’s just a girl’s fancy!
Children will fix her!”), it’s not
a real marriage in Gungahla if
the bride hasn’t seen the girl on
the tree.
No one would actually say
this, of course, and no one knows
what it means but in some way
or other it’s our idea of poetry.
Gossip’s our other art. You
mustn’t laugh at our gossiping,
or only in a good-natured way,
because it’s the only way we
have there of commenting on
life. And what’s a good novel
but that sort of gossip?
Sometimes it seems that the
life we comment on most is the
schoolteacher’s, poor man. He
comes to the country, lands at
our town and whether he knows
it or not our world is ready to
take him in. We are rather
lucky. The school’s just a room,
a dozen or so pupils ; they say
the district’s dying. This means
that the teacher is invariably
single, and stays only a year.
Which gives us just time to see
if he’ll do and be possible,
before another model appears.,
The disadvantage is that he’s
usually young and, just at the
moment, our ladies-in-waiting
are not.
vyHICH is why Mr. Ferguson’s
* * arrival seemed a real gift
from the Department of Edu-
cation, if not from Heaven itself.
Mr. Hall, the previous teacher,
was only a boy, and everyone
called him Ben from the first
(that’s another tradition). It’s
true that the Jeffers girl—home
on holidays—pulled him out
under the pepper-trees, but that
didn’t mean anything, because
she was only a girl and a nurse:
It was just a bit of fun, and a
bit of gossip for the two spinsters
of the district, neither of whom
could have followed her example
without being censured as baby-
killers.
But Mr. Ferguson was Mr.
Ferguson from the moment he
stepped off the train. The kids
who were leaning against the
fence, waiting for the train to
stop and show them their future,
told Mrs. Broome, who kept the
store, and gave them a licorice
each for their information, that
he was “real old.” And although
Mrs. Broome, who was seventy-
nine, assured them he was “only
a child,” she went straight inside
and rang up to tell her friends
that he’d arrived and was just
the right age and no doubt Lucy
McCormack would soon be
behaving scandalously.
While she was talking inside
the shop and the licorice-eating
kids were standing on her
veranda and staring at their fate,
Mr. Ferguson, bareheaded in the
sun, stood by the shed on the
little siding and stared at the
country. His head was balding,
and just then was shining like
an egg. The kids called him
Shinytop. He was forty-two.
Mr. Ferguson was not a very
good teacher, but he was a very
good-hearted man, and a happy
one. He knew that he did his
pupils less harm than most other
teachers. He read a great deal.
He felt quite profound feelings
about landscapes and people. He
hated no one and loved no one.
He believed he had no enemies
and was fond of almost everyone
he knew.
He looked now at the siding
and the few buildings, the long
plain with its hills far away, the
silver rails that stretched on
straight .and promising. He
looked at them and smiled. He
knew what they promised and
thought he’d be happier here
where he was, even with fhe heat,
even with the flies, even with a
school that was only a room.
“Gungahla,” he said, and he
tasted the name in his mouth.
He liked it.
By the time Ted Wylie and
the car, late as usual, came to
find him, Mr. Ferguson was
inside the store and friends with
Mrs. Broome, who was telling
him about her Herb and the
drought of ’O2, a singular mark
of favor. Ted found the new
teacher willing to shake hands
with anyone, and not like a
teacher at all.
But he was like a teacher. Not
like the young ones that. had
stayed at Wylies’ before, but
very much as they’d imagined
teachers were. He was quiet and
he was nice. He sat on the
veranda of an evening reading;
took part in the conversation
but never said much ; went for
long walks. The kids grew used
to him and liked him. Before
he’d been there a month it
seemed like for ever and the
young teachers, with their cars
and their weekends in the big
town, retreated into myth ; out-
rageous stories to make Mr.
Ferguson smile.
,He smiled a great deal. As
Mrs. Wylie pointed out, why
shouldn’t he? He’d no real worry
about stock or crop, or flood
or fire. And I don’t doubt, now,
that Gungahla gave him a good
deal to smile about.
Lucy mccormack, for
instance. She was behaving
scandalously. She kept calling at
the Wylies’ for a thousand
reasons. You’ve never seen such
neighborliness.
She lived near (that was an
advantage) and she was a widow.
The Mrs. in front of her name
made it seem almost respectable,
but it didn’t seem fair: she had
had a husband. And the district
thought that she might have
given the Henshawe girl a
chance. Heaven knows she
needed it! Old Man Henshawe
worked her from dawn till dark.
The Henshawe girl’s visits to
the Wylies and Mr. Ferguson
had to be made of a night, and
she wasn’t clever enough to think
of an excuse for calling more
than once a week even if she
could have managed it. The Old
Man would drive her for an
outing once a week and no more.
“If she wants to go gallivanting,”
he used to say, “she’ll have to
walk.” As it was she was so
tired on her weekly visits that
she could hardly be said to
shine, although she did wear
lipstick and rouge and everyone
thought it a very good effort all
things considered.
But the widow McCormack
had stronger cards. She was big
and she was funny. She could
keep you laughing and happy.
Mr. Ferguson always put down
his book and listened to her
talking. If she asked his advice
(she often did) he’d make some
mad suggestion like, “Sell the
place and go to Mecca!” And
when she looked startled (she
always did) he’d laugh in her
face, till she laughed too.
They got on famously, as Mrs.
Wylie reported over the party-
phone, and Lucy, wise as a
woman, plied him with gifts of
grapes and cream. She had a
property on the river and as
she herself said, casting her eyes
down over her jolly figure, “It
only needs a man to make it
good.”
“Well!” said Mrs. Wylie
coldly, “you must be making
quite a nice bit out of it already.”
And as soon as the widow had
gone home she turned the handle
and gave the astonished phone
an account of Lucy’s latest.
Mr. Ferguson must have
heard some of the <ph one-talk,
but he gave no real sign, simply
smiled. And he always resisted
the Wylie men’s efforts to joke
about the widow. If they ven-
tured an open remark, he smiled.
That’s all.
“He’s the damnedest smiling
damned man ever!” Ted Wylie
told me, but that was just Ted
trying to sound grown up^
So far it looked like Lucy’s
match and people even started
to joke with her about it, very
discreetly of course, with we-
could-say-if-we-wanted-to smiles
about pear-tree brides and the
cost of white satin and how
annoying men are about the
house. It was then, at that very
moment of triumph, that a com-
plication appeared.
It was Lucy who saw it first.
She rang Mrs. Wylie about it
instantly.
“I was down in the old shed
near the river,” she said. “I was
just looking for—oh that doesn’t
matter! In any case I was bend-
ing down near the window and
looking around on the floor and
I just stood up to straighten my
back and take a breath and I
happened to look outside. And
who do you think I saw? Mr.
Ferguson! And do you know
who was with him, the sly,
scheming? No, not the
Henshawe girl! It was Helen
Millaney. Yes, Helen Millaney.
Too good for men, she is! Too
good for men! No, of course,
they weren’t doing anything.
Not Mr. Ferguson. They were
just walking along, her talking
away. Butter wouldn’t melt in
her —no, I couldn’t hear, not a
word. But he was listening,
Mavis, he was listening to her.
And he didn’t look as though he
was being tortured. No. No, he
didn’t. He looked pleased.
Pleased! ” \
And after she’d finished talk-
ing and being consoled Lucy
McCormack (who had had a
husband) sat down on her big
dining-room-chair and cried. She
didn’t think it was fair, not after
she’d beaten the Henshawe girl.
And who’d have thought about
Helen Millaney?
'T'HE answer is no one.
Because Helen Millaney
was Miss Millaney even to me,
and I was friends with her.
She lived alone in an old
homestead, a pise place (“with
nothing nice and modern,” every-
one said). When her father died
she sold the property, just kept
the old place. She lived there
alone, saw hardly anyone. The
mailman brought her stuff from
town, and left it at the gate.
She had a big dog called
Napoleon, which everyone
thought was a highfalutin name
for a dog, and I think I was
the only person who’d ever been
asked to visit her house since
her father died.
I liked her. She was forty-
five or so and I knew I was safe
with her. I could talk to her as
I couldn’t talk to any other
woman. She owned lots of books
that I looked at with envy and
wanted to talk about, but she
said, “That’s no good. Will, no
good at all. Books might make
us what we are, but that’s what’s
important; not the books. What
are you, Will? What are you?”
And she laughed at me. But
so quietly I didn’t mind and
wasn’t shy, and tried to tell her
what I was. Of course I
couldn’t; I didn’t know, arid
probably still don’t. So we just
went on talking, and she told me
what we all were.
“Everything that ever was,’
she said, “comes here and here.”
And she put her hand first to
her heart and then to her head.
She told me stories of the old
days, when her great-grandfather
came to Gungahla, when people
rode horses, when, as she said,
“The shape of the country meant
something.” It was strange and
it was wonderful talk, wonderful
(Continued on page 24)


Missing Friend
PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE. —WILL JIM
(or JAMES) WHITE, and his brother
WILLIE (or WILLIAM) WHITE, or their
children, communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Albert Street, Auck-
land, New Zealand, re the Estate of their
late brother PERCIVAL CLIVE WHITE,
who died at Henderson, New Zealand, on
the Bth December, 1953, and was a son
of MARY JANE WHITE, and a brother
of MARY (or MAUD) WHITE. Friends
of the persons advertised for are asked, to
bring this advertisement to their notice.
C4i>sm is
better tobacco
CA** 5 ■
better tobacco
i
o
Ss*'
There’s nothing better after hours
on the road than a break to
enjoy Capstan Tobacco.
The choice, mild Virginia
leaf in Capstan’s own
blend ensures flavour, fresh
fragrance and smoo th
smoking.
Ask everywhere for
CAPSTAN.
CAPSTAN
FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
Cut out stuffing und
you cut down costs
ii (: ,n
■ >)/ {.
1
W
I
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision-
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed, so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers-just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco - guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the
foil range of Mobilco JUNIOR Tree Fellers.
Address
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH ....
Look at it ... a Saw with one single
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced the
clutch engages automatically. When the
throttle is closed the blade stops auto-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. It does not matter how
often you jam or stall your blade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £l6B, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/-.
All ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD,
ka Cil VPRWATER ROAD AUBURN. PHONES: YX 1244-3 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
WAD CE- 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCH Es/ C BRISBANE; ADELAIDE, PERTH - - - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
have it. I need the fifty-pounds
to buy clothes and pay rent
on a room till I get wages. You
see, I’m going cheap,” she added
ironically. “I’d advise you to
take it.”
James looked hastily round.
His was the only car left outside
the club ; in the windows of the
houses near by lights were
already glowing. If he and the
girl stayed talking much longer
there would be gossip. “All
right,” he said quickly, vindic-
tively. “Make him sell —and to
me—and it’s yours. Now, do
you mind? 1 must go.”
“I thought so,” said the girl,
her pale face jeering again. She
turned and walked away.
TAMES had not expected that
it would be Belle who would
come to the office. In it, she
looked out of place ; she had lost
the simplicity and calm that had
so touched him, and seemed only
countrified, gauche and ill-
dressed. This fortified him, in
his steel-and-leather desk-chair
in the smooth, successful private
office of immaculate carpets and
muffled telephones; he was in
command. The Duck Farm was
where it should be —on the way
to limbo.
Belle felt this, too, apparently.
“You can guess why I’ve come,
Mr. Farley. We’ve changed our
minds ; we need the money.”
She pleated her dress
momentarily between her fingers.
“My husband will sell. You
may have heard, his father died
a few days ago. There’s nothing,
now, to keep us at the farm.”
“He hasn’t come himself?”
James prompted, watching her.
He was not quite sure of her
yet.
“He doesn’t like the idea of
selling,” Belle said. “But if you
draw up the documents and send
them, he’ll sign them.”
It was as though she had
admitted his victory. The name
beside the door, the telephones,
the carpets were vindicated.
James felt generous. He named
a sum that was more than fair,,
and the woman nodded without
question. She was no longer
Belle Maudsley, but the Furnier
woman from the Duck Farm;
he showed her out politely,
patronisingly.
At first he had thought of
giving the girl some job in his
own office. He had rather liked
the idea of so openly showing
his triumph, with her as trophy.
But in the end he rang a business-
acquaintance and arranged a
showroom-assistantship, telling
himself that, after all, she was
untrained. Yet he knew it was
the memory of that jeering look
that troubled him —a knowledge,
in it, of their intimacy in
betrayal, in duplicity. Betrayal?
But James had pursued, hard-
headed businessman, only the
obvious course. What was there
to betray?
Nevertheless, he was nervous
of her, when he saw her a few
evenings later, waitipg just
beyond the boundary of his
darling suburb, leaning inso-
lently against an awning-post,
larrikin-eyed and dressed again
in that cheap, gay, bare-
shouldered frock. She stepped to
the car as he drew up.
“So, we’ve won?”
“I received the papers from
your father today,” he said
shortly, disliking that “we.”
, “Now,” she said, opening her
shoddy white handbag. “The
fifty, if you don’t mind.”
“First tell me how you did it.”
“No bargaining,” she said.
“What does it matter, anyhow?
It’s done now.”
“I’d like to know. Just
curiosity.”
“The fifty first.”
He counted out the notes
silently into her handbag, not
insulted by her obstinacy. “I’ve
arranged about a job. It’s in a
good store fashionable; not
much money to begin with, but
it’s up to you to make it more
in time. Does that satisfy you?”
“It’ll do,” she sighed. She
leaned back as though tired. “I
had to do it, but I feel lousy
just the same.”
James winced from her.
“Now, how did you do it?”
“Got at Mum, of course. He’ll
do whatever she asks him. But
it was the first time she’d
ever . ..” Her voice trailed away.
“ ‘Got at’?”
“Oh, I had plenty on her.
She’s not a saint, you know. I
know a lot that Dad wouldn’t
like to hear ; and I think he has
half an idea of it, too. He goes
off, you know; leaves us some-
where and comes back in a
month or two ; once it was six
months. Oh, yes—she loves him,
I expect; but what’s that got
to do with me?” she cried,
suddenly furious. “She’s not
my mother, is she?”
James remembered her eyes
as she had watched Belle with
him that morning, hostile and
observant. He looked straight
ahead, drumming his fingers on
the wheel.
“They’ll be happier without
me,” she said, her voice slumping
again. “Now we’ve all got what
we wanted, eh?”
“That’s right,” said James. He
started the engine uncertainly.
He should have expected some-
thing like this.
YET somehow he felt that the
betrayal, the loss, which he
had known all along to be a
betrayal of himself, as well
as of that life which he had
sensed, among the Furniers, as
both hostile to his own life and
necessary to, even beloved by,
his inner self, was n.ow a double
betrayal, and double, too, the
loss. Yes ; on that first encounter
he had seen Belle, her family,
and even the Duck Farm* as the
affirmation of something from
which he had insensibly over the
years seceded, and the denial of
something to which, over the
years, he had given in—not out
of mere weakness, but out of
lack of support, out of the con-
stant bias of a life directed to
ends other than those he had
once . . . believed in? hoped
for? The terms were too definite.
To have left it like that—he,
irrevocably on one side of a line,
they on the other (Dennis and his
drawing, Furnier and his shallow,
preoccupied gaze, Belle and her
goats that jostled her blue skirt
like unicorns pressing into the
lap of a virgin) would at least
have left him whole ; conquered
in the game, perhaps, but whole.
To Evil, it is necessary that Good
should exist.
But from his very determina-
tion to keep that line fixed (since
it would not budge to admit him
to the other side, Furnier’s gaze
remaining shallow, Belle ignoring
the tentative movement towards
her of that boy he had once
been) —from his very determina-
tion, since evil he must be, to
continue evil, good
—had come this double loss, this
equivocation, which left the
whole incident, and with it his
own feeling, in the end meaning-
less.
“They’re packing,” the girl
said. “They’re leaving tomorrow.
I don’t suppose I’ll see them
again—for years perhaps.”
He turned and saw her profile,
desolately staring away at noth-
ing. Her hands held the white
bag close, but without affection.
“You love them,” he said.
“Oh, what shall I do without
them?” she cried with sudden
tears. *
“We must both learn to do
without them,” James thought.
“Come to my office tomorrow,”
he said. “I’ll take you down to
the manager—he’s a friend of
mine—and introduce you to
him.”
And opening the door of the
car, not at, but near, the Duck
Farm’s tottering grey buildin'gs,
he let her gently out.
CICADAS IN FEBRUARY
What subtle gearing
Moves this sound,
Through cool tree-ducts above
hot ground,
What subtle gearing
And how profound!
One need not love it,
The hot, dry shrill
Poured down each valley from
every hill;
One need not love it
But ah! the skill.
A thousand singers
All drunk with heat
Say how the summer is hot and
sweet;
A thousand singers,
A single beat!
A thousand singers
With life and gong
Say how the summer hot and
strong.
A thousand singers,
A single song.
What subtle gearing
Moves this sound
Through cool tree-ducts above
hot ground,
What subtle gearing
And how profound!
N.S.W.
ERNEST G. MOLL.


ASK THE MEN WHO DRIVE THEM
0 M 0
itilf
u Utr• MottaU
BENZOC
makes all the difference
Any experienced racing driver will tell you the addition
of extra BENZOL to his fuel is a must to get
Optimum Performance from his engine. Gruelling,
racing speed won’t interest private motorists but
all the ‘OP’ advantages of extra BENZOL will. ..
You’ll appreciate the quicker starting, livelier
acceleration and smoother, more positive
power of BP SUPER or C.O.R
STANDARD ... BENZOL
makes all the difference! And,
too, both these fuels are
plus BP 08 to keep
top cylinder areas
cleaner, longer.
SUPER
1
m
BP SUPER, like Special Energol
VISCO-STATIC
Motor Oil—the original 4 grade
in I oil—acclaimed by world
motorists—is worth so
much more than the
extra it costs.
THE ONLY MOTOR SPIRITS CONTAINING BENZOL
Marketed by N I/C352D
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co, Ltd
Missing Friend
TO JAMES GRAHAM HILL formerly of
Maryborough and Mildura in the State
of Victoria rural worker but now of
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife FRANCES VICTORIA HILL
formerly of 9 Jessamine Avenue Windsor
in the State of Victoria but now of 37
Bunting Street Burnley in the said State
married woman has filed a Petition for
a Divorce against you which Petition is
numbered 128 of 1956 on the ground of
wilful desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you intend to defend this suit you must
enter an appearance at the Office of the
Prothonotary Supreme Courts Law Courts
Melbourne on or before the Tenth day of
April 1956 In default of your failure
to do so the suit will proceed in your
absence and you may be liable to pay
the costs of the Petition A copy of the
Petition and Citation and the Petitioner’s
Affidavit may be obtained by you without
charge upon application to the Petitioner’s
solicitor whose address is hereunder.
M. M. GORMAN, LL.B., of 422 ColliDS
Street, Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS* AND TRAVELLERS* BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
to me. I thought she was mad,
and I liked her.
She went for long walks;
really long walks; all day they
took. She used to tell me some-
times what she saw: insects
under stones, a whistling eagle,
a - proud snake.
It was while she was on one
of these walks that she’d met
Mr. Ferguson. We’d all known
he went walking too. We thought
it rather mad, in fact: it was
still hot weather, and even if
it hadn’t been there didn’t seem
much sense in walking unless
you were going somewhere. And
it just didn’t occur to us that
two odd ones, with the same
oddity, would one day inevitably
meet. But meet they did.
The day Lucy saw them
together may not have been the
first time but, at any rate, after
that things moved very quickly.
They were seen all over the place,
on Tuesday and Thursday after-'
noons every week, and when one
Saturday Mr' Ferguson asked
could he have some sandwiches
as he was going out all day Mrs.
Wylie looked at him very sharply
indeed. “Walking?” she said,
and she stared at him and waited
for him to look sheepish. But
he didn’t. “He’s the most smiling
damned man,” she said to Lucy.
She’d picked up the phrase from
Ted.
“I suppose there’ll be a pear-
tree bride,” said Ted, and looked
at Lucy. But she looked so
miserable (she’d arrived to find
Mr. Ferguson and his sandwiches
gone) that Ted felt sorry for her
and, wanting to say something
comforting, said, “Anyway, Mr.
Ferguson likes you.”
Lucy hurst into tears. Mrs.
Wylie told Ted he was a fool and
for heaven’s sake to go out in
the yard where he belonged.
Ted, confused and muttering
about women, retreated. We take
the sexes seriously in Gungahla.
So much so that everyone was
taken aback when Mr. Ferguson
said that he was going to spent
the next weekend at the Millaney
homestead. Mrs. . Wylie
expressed disapproval.
“It’s a big house,” said Mr.
Ferguson, and smiled.
“People talk,” said Mrs. Wylie.
“What could they say?” v
“Well! ” began Mrs.
Wylie.
But she couldn’t put it into
words, not to Mr. Ferguson.
She had quite a vocabulary on
the subject, however, the moment
she picked up the phone.
Mr. Ferguson came back from
his weekend looking much the
same as ever, but when the men
made a joke about it he looked
very stern, changed the subject
and smiled. He was the most
smiling damned man.
Mrs. Wylie thought it was
scandalous. “Poor Lucy,” she
said. “And that poor Henshawe
girl. Helen Millaney might have
money but she’s mad, mad. It
just isn’t fair. Someone should
do something.”
CO she did. She got her sister’s
child to come from town
and stay with her. “She can help
me in the house,” Mrs. Wylie
told Mr. Ferguson, “but of
course it’s really just to help my
poor sister.”
Her sister’s child, however,
f was nineteen and was such a
neat little package that, cousin
or not, Ted Wylie couldn’t help
thinking about her.
Neither could Mr. Ferguson.
Especially as she wanted his
advice and help. She’d come
from town only because she
wanted to, really. She wasn’t a
stupid girl. She knew Mrs.
Wylie’s game, and her mother’s,
but she’d come all the same
because it suited her. She hated
the bush, she hated the town;
she wanted to be a nurse in the
city, and she had left school at
fourteen.
She needed an Intermediate
Certificate. Her mother said she
was a fool. Would Mr. Ferguson
help her? It was six months to
the examination. She was older
than most, but that didn’t matter.
“It’s not that I’m dull,” she said.
Mr. Ferguson looked at her.
She had wide eyes that stared at
people. “No,” he said, “it’s not
that you’re dull. It could be done
in six months. Depends what you
remember—or what you’ve for-
gotten ; I don’t know which.
You’d have to work hard.”
“Oh, I’ll work hard,” said
Thelma, and looked at him
again.
Mrs. Wylie thought her very
clever and did all she could to
help. Before long, Mr. Ferguson
could go walking only once a
week. It wasn’t fair to leave the
girl when she really did want to
learn. Almost every evening,
then, he and Thelma, surrounded
by books, sat on the veranda
and worked, or sometimes just
talked. When it grew too cold
for that Mrs. Wylie lit them a
special fire in a special room
away from the family. It also
kept them away from Lucy. “It’s
just so you can work,” she said.
I’m sure Mr. Ferguson was
aware of the dangers of the
situation and meant nothing to
come of it. I’m pretty sure that
Thelma was after nothing hut
an Intermediate Certificate.
Nevertheless, despite what either
of them intended, he kissed her
one-night—right in the middle of
a French conjugation.
It meant nothing of course.
Thelma was the sort of girl that
even “a real old man” would
have kissed, given time. But a
kiss in the country! You can
guess what that means: it’s the
spring of the trap.
And when it was known to
Mrs. Wylie!
Thelma told Ted and then
had a row with him and he yelled
something about it and so Mrs.
Wylie knew. Well, then, it was
all up with Mr. Ferguson, and
he knew it. It was all up with
Thelma too, but she was too
young to believe it and just
went on living and thinking
about the city; she was going
to pass the Inter, no matter what
happened:
When Mrs. Wylie told Lucy
McCormack that she was
avenged the widow affected com-
plete indifference and announced
to the not-ver.y-pleased Mrs.
Wylie that she was going to
mafry the publican from Wenda,
a town twelve miles away, and
that she hoped Mrs. Wylie would
give her a kitchen-tea, although,
as she was an unfortunate widow
who didn’t need kitchenware,
any sort of gifts would do.
The kitchen-tea was set for
September, and Mrs. Wylie,
making the best of it, had rather
public hopes that she could
make a certain announcement
there and show how she had
helped her poor sister’s child.
She broached the subject with
Mr. Ferguson, but" he was very
dull about it and either couldn’t
or wouldn’t understand what
kind of an announcement she
meant until she came right out
in the open and said, “Engage-
ment.”
He looked surprised. “I don’t
know,” he said. “We’ll see. We’ll
just have to wait and see.”
And he gave her one of his
damned smiles. Mrs. Wylie was
furious.
He talked about it with
Thelma, though. She didn’t much
care. Everyone took it for
granted. She would if he wanted
to. They could live in the city,
couldn’t they?
Mr. Ferguson said he agreed
with her: people have talked ;
we are together a lot; I am very
f on d of you. “I can see all your
points,” he said, “more or less.”
(She had not made one of these
points.) But, in any case, he
didn’t say yes, although he’d
gone far too far by this time to
sa y no They went on working
f or the exam, and he went on
kissing her.
« A yoU ng man could do it
an( j no body notice” said Mrs
Wylie> « but a manure m an, an
adu]t is responsible for every-
Th . ... ,
(HeavenTnd S w*
know how'i that at thp Widow
k " OW h ° w!) that at the Wldow
McCormack’s kitchen-tea an
engagement would be announced.
i
r T , HE day before the tea,
1 however,' * Helen Millaney
called at the school just before
hometime. She had never called
there before, and the minute that
Mrs. Broome, over at the store,
saw her arrive she rang Mrs.
Wylie. And she actually kept
her on the phone the whole time
that Helen Millaney was there
and reported to her glance by
glance what happened.
Nothing much did. Miss
Millaney spoke to Mr. Ferguson
and then waited on the veranda
till school was out. The children
stared at her as they passed her
and she held out her hand to
one of the little ones (“trying
to look a homebody,” said Mrs.
Wylie). But the child (“One of
the Wallaces, dear little thing,”
said Mrs. Broome) put its finger
in its mouth and walked away.
Then Mr. Ferguson and Miss
Millaney stood on the veranda.
They didn’t talk much; Mrs.
Broome could see that. They
stood there, Mr. Ferguson hold-
ing a veranda-post rather
stupidly and Miss Millaney shift-
ing and fidgeting but never really
changing her position at all. She
looked oilt into the distance. He
looked at her. Their lips moved
sometimes. But it didn’t seem the
sort of talk that needed answers
or quick interchanges. They just
said something and went on
looking.
Mrs. Wylie at . her end of the
phone wanted to shake Mrs.
Broome. If that man failed her
now! If only she were there!
How Lucy would laugh!
“She’s going,” said Mrs.
Broome, “I heard her say good-
bye.”
Considering the distance and
her famous deafness this state-
ment can be taken as evidence
only of Mrs. Broome’s stature as
a romantic novelist.
“She’s walking away,” she con-
tinued. “Why doesn’t she buy
a car? She’s got the money.
It’s four miles to the house. The
poor thing looks so thin."
“What’s he doing?” demanded
Mrs. Wylie, praying for strength.
“She’s walking away,” Mrs.
Broome went on. %“She looks so
lonely. That long road. I
remember when her father
died”
“What’s Mr. Ferguson
doing?” Mrs. Wylie bit her lip
with annoyance. Mrs. Broome
was doddering, wasn’t fit to keep
the store.
“Just standing at the gate,
smoking hi§ pipe. Yes, he’s
watching her go. Just leaning
there smoking.”
And that’s all he did while thin
Miss Millaney walked up the
road singing and talking the way
she always did when she was
out alone. I’d heard her often.
I heard her then. When she came
up to me I called out to her. I
was lying near the fence because
summer was coming and the
work was hot. Besides, no one
could see me and I was reading
a book.
“It’s a fine day, Miss Millaney.
A good day for singing! ”
“All service ranks the same
with God,” said Miss Millaney.
“Even yours, Will. Even mine.”
And she laughed and went on.
I leaned on niy arm and watched
her go.
VX/'HEN the night of the tea
came, the day had been hot
and stormy; but the rain hadn’t
come and, just after we’d finished
o Continued on page 30)
THE BERRY
Knowing my recollections are birds that plunder
to fill my hands, I give them leave
to fly in the mountains and bring me proof
of the subterfuge only deep gullies weave.
And I like most, out of the pillaged mountain,
one berry stripped of humid forest shade,
for I recall club-moss, tree-orchids and a lily
took shape beneath the branch where it was made,
I do not hold rain-forests in my hand——
the past and the future, some would say—
when I hold eugenia s berry, seeing its violet texture
as the cloud that forms in the first and last ravine of da^.
But there is no one now to capture such a cloud,
since one must be the chosen to perform this act,
bearing forever the silence of orchids’ lips
and never retreating from a lily’s white impact.
N - s w *
MARGARET IRVIN.


Advice From a Two-way Student
Honey— and How to Owe It
By GAVIN CASEY
having had the honor of accompanying my friend, divers
times, in his perambulations about this vast city, I own I
was greatly struck at first with the prodigious number of
faces we met, who- claimed a sort of respectful acquaintance
with us. He was one day so obliging as to explain the
phenomenon. It seems, these were his tributaries; feeders
of his exchequer; gentlemen, his good friends (as ,he was
pleased to express himself), to whom he had occasionally
been beholden for a loan. Their multitudes did no way
disconcert him. He rather took a pride in numbering them;
and, with Comus, seemed pleased to be “stocked with so
fair a herd.”
With such sources, it was a wonder how he contrived to
keep his treasury always empty. He did it by force of an
aphorism, which he had often in his mouth, that “money
kept longer than three days stinks.” So he made use of it
while it was fresh. —ELIA.
Borrowing money is
comparatively easy. It’s
owing it that gets diffi-
cult as time goes on and
on, and being able to do
that gracefully is a personal asset
comparable with eloquence,
attractiveness to the opposite
sex, a good head of hair, or being
able to wiggle one’s ears.
As one who has utterly ignored
the old saw, and been both a
.borrower and a tender all his life,
I know a bit about it—though
nothing to interest financiers,
captains of commerce, or
persons who wish to operate on
that level. For such big-time
stuff you have to be born with
the knack. The borrowing I
know about just concerns not
going thirsty on the day before
payday, getting the overdue gas-
bill paid, and so on.
Such matters to some are
trifles —but not to the man with
a thirst or the one who faces a
diet of raw meat unless he can
find, the cash to keep the
voracious gas-company at bay.
■Petty borrowing has always been
an important affair in the lives
of the wage- and salary-classes,
and it deserves study.
The obvious way out of the
small financial crisis is, of course,
through the doorl of the pawn-
shop, but the method has dis-
advantages.
Wives, getting suits ready for
the dry-cleaner, find pawn-
tickets, for one thing. Female
dismay is then followed by
abrupt and impatient explana-
tions and careful choice of
words is necessary or before long
the little woman will be in a
screaming rage in the curious
belief that she has been accused
of keeping you short of beer-
money by extravagant house-
keeping.
Another trouble with Uncle is
that he generally gets what you
are in the habit of pawning, to
keep for his very own, sooner
or later. If you’d been born with
that knack for finance he would
not, of course—but if you had
that particular gift you wouldn’t
f»e one of his customers, anyway.
As things are, you can pawn,
say, your watch 50 times, and
redeem it each time. But the
51st time you feel too poor to
recover it, even on payday. The
following pay you have to give
old Bill back the couple of notes
you got from him, because you
didn’t have the watch to pawn
as' usual. By the third pay
you’ve got out of the habit of
looking at your bare wrist—and,
anyway, the hire-purchase
people have turned nasty about
the radiogram.
By that stage, it’s goodbye,
watch. A moderately prosperous
pay comes along, and you decide
you’ll pick it up, but when you
add-up what the interest now
amounts to you change your
mind about that. It’ll have to
wait another week, and you put
three-pounds in a different
pocket as a sinking-fund for
reclamation of watch.
You have a happy week, dig-
ging into that pocket, and at the
end of it all that’s left of the
money is a five-bob debt to the
barman at the corner.
Uncle has the watch, and
nobody is going to get it away
from him now under £8 Bs.,
cash down.
So mates, who don’t issue
tickets or demand security, are
better. Also, they sometimes go
off to New Guinea or Fiji or
somewhere before you even have
time to repay them.
An occasional mate even dies
of old age before you’ve been
able to give him jback what you
owe him, but this is regrettable
when it happens, and is never
to be counted, upon.
Basically, I’m afraid, the only
way to be a successful borrower
and ower is to pay it back, some-
times swiftly and sometimes
maybe tardily, but always, if
possible, before the sufferings of
the lender through lack of the
amount have become too grim.
One of my own little systems
for keeping popular with my
victims is used with admirable
results whenever I do settle-up.
Aware that the money is rather
overdue, and that I’m looking
a bit seedy, the lender almost
always says, “Are you sure you
can manage it all right?” Where-
upon, in the manner of one
making a merry quip in the face
of adversity, I cry, “Sure, Joe.
Got to manage it, or I won’t be
able to borrow it from you again,
will I?”
[There is then some hearty
laughter, and a couple of drinks,
and all I have to do is he in
ambush for the poor cow a few
days later to get it again, with
a quid added. I have established
my credit as a man who Pays
Back.
On the other hand, if you
don’t pay back, your friends
naturally begin to plead their
own poverty. They’ve just paid
the deposit on a 900-cubic-ft.
refrigerator, or a new Constella-
tion or something. If you’d seen
them yesterday it would have
been all right, and it would be
O.K. right now, except that they
don’t know this publican well
enough to ask him to cash a
cheque.
These lies are cruelly embar-
rassing to the friend, particu-
larly when it is his turn to buy
a round, and he hasn’t enough
silver for it. He then gropes in
fear and anguish, trying to
separate the notes in his hip-
pocket, and until he finally has it
out few all to see he can never
be quite sure whether his finger-
tips have safely located the ten-
bob or are fishing out one of the
fivers.
Some borrowing arrangements,
however, can be extremely
pleasant and satisfying to all
parties. -As, for instance, in a
place with a very large staff
where I used to work a few years
ago- . ,
The management, it seemed,
was anxious to confuse every-
body about how much money
everybody else got, and for this
reason there were separate
cubby-holes and offices all over
the place at which different
groups of employees were paid
at different times on paydays.
The charm of it was that I got
my stipend in the morning, and
my immediate associates, for
some reason, got theirs in the
afternoon.
Thus, on Thursdays, I had
only to £md someone with some
dough to be able to borrow it
ruthlessly, with a clear con-
science. On Fridays I would
repay, and could disburse small
sums right and left so that others
could get their money after
lunch instead of merely after
lunch-time.
This feeding of the starving
was good for my ego and, since
the then-plump and well-fed paid
back during the afternoon, did
no harm to my pocket. And the
men from whom I borrowed
on Thursdays, or even Wednes-
days in bad weeks, were never
reluctant. Not only were they
sure of getting it back but they
were pretty certain to be among
the starving themselves, next
time.
Naturally, all financial
arrangements are not as happy as
that one, and even between close
friends money and the lack of
it can become an irritation.
There is a smug old saying,
generally used as a reason
for not helping somebody
who needs help, that if you lend
money you lose a friend. Like
a lot of others, this one is half,
or perhaps only a third, true. A
thing to resist is dodging a man
merely because you owe him
money. He nearly always sees
you dodge, and if he is a
normal man his heart is made
heavy.
Unless he is desperate himself,
he doesn’t want you to give up
smoking, become a teetotaller
and dress your wife in used
sugar-bags so that you can pay
him back. He’d like the cash,
but losing it and your friendship
as well seems too high a price
to pay for having done what he
could for you in a needy
moment.
A difficult aspect of borrowing
and lending is the very small
amounts that are simply for-
gotten. They can add-up to quite
a bit, and we had a very simple
method of ensuring they didn’t
on the Western Australian gold-
fields where I was born and lived
for many years.
Kalgoorlie was a town without
poverty, but full of shortness of
money, partly because a pay-
fortnight on the mines was not
two weeks, but whatever time
lay between two calendar-month
dates. There were “big pays”
and “short pays,” and terrible,
hard-up weekends, when payday
was going to happen on Monday
or Tuesday instead of at the
civilised end of the week.
This promoted great and
powerful borrowing, although
the community was really pro-
sperous. Other factors helped,
like the ease with which money
could be done-in at the two-up
school, and the fact that all
and sundry were enthusiastic
punters. If you had any cash
at a time when most others had
not, the way to preserve it was
not to button-up your pocket,
but to hand-out in bigger lumps
than were sought.
The idea was, “Never lend a
man a dollar, or he’ll forget it.
Lend him a quid, and he’ll
remember.”
But that was in the days of six-
pence for a 12-ounce pot of beer
or a packet of gaspers.
Now, I suppose, it would have
to be a fiver, to be safe. What
the figure is in the city I don’t
know, but I have noticed that
some characters whose honesty
I would never question seem to
forget a quid as swiftly and com-
pletely as we used to forget five-
bobs then. Perhaps I’ve even
done it myself, once or twice,
though never, I assure any un-
known creditors I might have,
intentionally.
In Kalgoorlie in those vanished
times I had (and still have) a very
good friend who was a great
lender. Strangely enough, for a
then-young man who had already
had a successful career in busi-
ness, and had never lacked the
p/ice of a new suit or even a
new motor-car, he appreciated
other people’s money-troubles
just as though he’d been through
it all himself. His hand was
always in his pocket, and paying
old Frank back was something
nobody worried about with any
urgency.
Then things took a
caused him to leave town, on an
expensive journey, and he was
sadly disillusioned when he tried
to get back as much as possible
of the large sum that was owing
to him by a large number of.
people.
It wasn’t that most wanted to
do him out of it. It was just that
the week he asked was the wrong
one. It woßld have been all right
a week earlier. It would be jake
after next payday. They’d send
him the money, registered mail,
express delivery, as soon as they
got their hands on it. He’d get
it, never fear.
Needless to say, he never got
most of it. By next payday he
was somewhere else, and less-
placid creditors were hammering
on thejdoor. They’d do the right
thing Ihe payday after. It was
like getting back that pawned
watc£ except that Frank didn’t
have the watch.
He left Kalgoorlie a little dis-
illusioned, but he had something
on the credit-side for all the
money he’d never see again. Had
he got into difficulties anywhere
he jwould have only had to send
a telegram to any one of a score
of addresses back home, and
wh&tever amount he asked would
have come straight back over the
wire to him, evert if the recipient
of his appeal had had to send his
wife out washing or sell a few
of the children to raise it. He
never had to seek such help, but
if he’d had to it would have been
there.
At the other extreme in money
matters is an incurable borrower
I know who never pays back any
sum, large or small, or any part
erf it. He retains a fairly large
circle of friends, simply by
realising when he has borrowed
one out, and never putting the
nips in in that quarter again.
The course is not recommended
for anybody who wants to go
to Heaven when he dies, but
it is remarkable how successful
it can be.
When people decide he is
really not going to borrow any
more, and that the last three
occasions when they met him
and he didn’t try a touch were
not just flukes, they sigh with
relief and start to enjoy his com-
pany again. When he is in
despair and penniless and they
offer him a stray half-quid he
turns it down with the broken-
hearted confession, “No, mate, I
owe you too much already,” and
he seems like a prince of good-
fellows.
In his case Not Paying Up but
being repentant about it is
almost as good as Paying Up, but
it is a difficult technique, possible
only for those with rare histrionic
ability and a natural appearance
of disconsolate and unhappy
realisation of worthlessness. And
I can’t help thinking that unless
they speed-up the immigration
programme he must run out of
people sooner or later.
For most of us, I’m afraid, the
rules for borrowing and success-
ful owing are simple. Owe cheer-
fully, and without looking like
a petty criminal or dodging your
victim around corners, but don't
owe for any longer than you
have to. You may forget
honestly sometimes, but don’t
cultivate that forgetful frame of
mind which keeps your con-
science clear and the pockets of
% your friends empty.
And if you say “Payday,”
don’t mean anything further
away than the second payday
in August of the year after next


WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Sales
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK
as follows:
Dispersal Sale of Kooba Stud
(the property of F. W. Hughes Pty. Ltd.)
FKIDAY, 23rd MARCS, 1956, at 1 p.m.
Annual Easter Sales
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS
TUESDAY, 3rd AERIE.
FRIDAY, 6th APRIE.
THURSDAY, sth APRIL
MONDAY, 9th APRIL.
(Commencing: at 10 a.m. each day.)
Brood Mares
THURSDAY, 12th APRID, 1956.
The Catalogue will include:
On account of Exors. Estate, late H. S. Thompson:
DISPERSAL OF TARWYN PARK STUD, comprising 34 WELL-BRED BROOD
MARES, many with foals at foot by Oleandrin (imp.) and Rigoletto (imp.)
and served again. »
On account of Mr. H. P. McCormick, Sundridge Park Stud,
St. Marys:
16 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, some with foals at foot by Edwardsii
(imp.) and served again.
Further entries invited.
Stallions, Untried Stock and
Racehorses-in-training
FRIDAY, 13th APRID, 1956.
The Catalogue will include:
On account of Exors. Estate, late H. S. Thompson:
The high-class Imported STALLIONS —OLEANDRIN (10), Bay Horse (1950)
by Pink Flower (sire of Wilwyn, won £9,613 in England and International
Stakes and 32,000 dollars in U.S.A.) from Marygain (sister to Gainsworth —
Irish One Thousand Guineas) by Bosworth. His oldest progeny are foals.
RIGOLETTO (1), Bay Horse (1949) by Chanteur II (sire of Pinza, winner
of the Derby, etc.) from Fair Dame by Fairway. His oldest progeny are now
yearlings.
Also V WELL-BRED YEARLINGS.
On account of Various Owners:
STALLIONSCHATEAU ROUSSEL (imp.), MAGIC BOW (imp.), JAMBO
(imp.), etc. *
Further entries invited.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’CONNEDD STREET, SYDNEY. PHONES 882411-8D2412
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COm LIMITED
•*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
On Saturday, the opening day
of the V.R.C.’s autumn meeting
at Flemington, six of the eight
winners were ridden by jockeys
from other States and five visit-
ing owners were successful, two
each from Sydney and New
Zealand, and one from Adelaide.
Sydney jockey A. Mulley piloted
three winners, Starover,
Kingster and Cambridge. 'lt
was a tough day for the books,
six favorites and two second-
favorites scooping the pro-
gramme.
The Newmarket, in particular,
was a triumph for the visitors,
Kingster (from Sydney) winning
from Adelaide’s sprinter Copper
Year, with Apple Bay (Sydney),
third. Kingster should be an
interesting runner in the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes today (Wednes-
day). He now has won £18,414
in stakes. His owner, L. Gibson,
also won Saturday’s rich Sires’
Produce Stakes with odds-on
champion colt Starover. Jack
Green trains them.
Comic Lad, easy winner of
Flemington’s First Hopeful
Stakes for maiden two-year-olds,
is raced by his breeder, E. A.
Underwood, vice-chairman of
the V.R.C. The colt is a son of
Comic Court and Phrygia, an
imported mare by Felstead from
Baucis by William of Valance.
Along with other horses belong-
ing to the V.R.C. vice-chairman,
Comic Lad will be offered for
sale in Melbourne on March 19.
High Gun, narrow winner of
the Second Hopeful Stakes, is
raced by Sir Rupert Clarke, and
is by Empyrean (imp.) from
Love Lilt by St. Magnus (imp.)
from Scotch Melody by
Cistercian (imp.).
In recent seasons Pride of
Egypt, Hydrogen, Gay Lad and
Reading, after winning the
V.R.C. St. Leger, later won the
A.J.C. St. Leger, and Sailor’s
Guide, latest (fairly easy)
winner of the Flemington
classic, looks all set for the
Randwick blue riband. Best
staying three-year-old of the
season, he’s to be galloped at
Bendigo the reverse way to give
him experience of Sydney
conditions.
. S.T.C. chairman H. Tancred
and vice-chairman W. Long-
worth race Dogma, who in the
Canterbury Maiden for two-
year-old fillies came home
strongly from fifth place at the
home-turn to score in attractive
style. Dogma is by Dogger
Bank (imp.) from Miss Eulogy:
the S.T.C. chairman bought Miss
Eulogy in New Zealand, brought
her to Australia, and later
returned her to the Dominion to
be mated with Dogger Bank,
whose products include The
Wash.
When racing in Sydney a few
seasons ago Ragazza won in
two-year-old company at Rand-
wick and Rosehill and was at
home on soft tracks. Her two-
year-old son Play Day, by
Berrylands (imp.) seems to have
inherited her traits: in easily
winning the Canterbury Second
Maiden he made light of the soft
going. Play Day is a product
of Kilkee stud, Koorawatha
(N.S.W.), owned by the Fleming
brothers, Jim and George, and
is raced by their wives. He
looks like going on to better
things and could develop
staying-power; his dam is a
half-sister to Concerto, winner
of the A.J.C. Derby. Ragazza is
by Le Grand Due (imp.) from
Sweet Harmony by Magpie
(imp.).
Half Hennesy, who had won
on a heavy track at Randwick
at his prior start a week earlier
and had strung together a list
of wins at various centres away
from the city, was entitled to
start favorite for the Campsie
Stakes at Canterbury, despite his
8.9, but a maiden, French
Affair, was preferred in the
betting. Apparently it was
thought that the poundage
would anchor Half Hennesy in
the mud. French Affair led at
the home-turn, but Half
Hennesy simply strolled in, his
rider, T. Hill, taking things
easily over the final stages.
Half Hennesy is a three-year-old
gelding by Precotant (imp.)
from Rhapsody by Nuffield.
With two recent wins in suc-
cession at Canterbury—the Frank
Underwood and the Canterbury
Park Cups—Compound has
come into strong favor for the
Doncaster (March 31), in which
he has 8.3. The Stockade geld-
ing had a runaway victory on
each occasion, and at the latest
carried 8.8. He’s partial to rain-
sodden conditions. Compound
also won the Lord Mayor’s Cup
at Rosehill last June. Cups seem
to be his hobby.
Enghien (imp.), an English
winner at l£-mile and a son of
Precipitation (winner of several
staying-events, including the
Ascot Gold Cup), is sire of
Cronulla, winner of the Canter-
bury First Maiden Two-year-old
at long odds. Harem Girl, dam
of Cronulla, is an El Golea mare
from Jean Hatchette by Heroic.
Four of the seven Canterbury
mid-week winners were bred -in
New Zealand, including two of
the three M ai d e n-d i v is i o n
winners—Stirling Girl and Tran-
quil Air. Dominion sportsman
M. J. Moodabe races Stirling
Girl, a three-year-old filly by
Count Rendered (imp.) from
Lady Vennachar by Beau
Repaire. Tranquil Air is a three-
year-old filly by Boissier (imp.)
from Maize II (imp.) by
Trimdon.
A consistent minor placegetter
at prior starts, two-year-old
Amanullah cracked it for a run-
away win at the Canterbury
“That cow seems to HATE me!”
Park mid-week fixture. Frank
Dalton trains the good-looking
New Zealand-bred youngster for
one of his patrons of long stand-
ing, Norman Fraser. Amanullah
is by Faux Tirage (imp.) from an
imported dam, Poor Little Rich
Girl, by Rockfella. He is related
to Alycidon, a noted English
winner of 11 races and £37,200 in
stakes, including the triple
crown, Ascot Gold Cup, Good-
wood and Doncaster Cups. Mr.
and Mrs. J. A. Curran, of Red
Oaks stud, Hastings, bred
Amanullah.
Magic Wind, winner of the
First Two-year-old Handicap at
Doomben, started at the never-
before-recorded price of 330 to
1. It was Magic Wind’s first
race-start. The filly is by Magic
Bow (imp.) from 111 Wind by
Posterity (imp.) from Full Blown
by Tippler (imp.).
Warwick Farm’s important
autumn day—next Saturday—
clashes with the final afternoon
of the V.R.C. carnival at
Flemington, and therefore the
w.f.a. Chipping Norton Stakes
(10 furlongs) will not be strong
in talent. However, Doncaster
Handicap and Sydney Cup
candidates should contest the
Liverpool Handicap, the Autumn
Handicap and the Cabramatta
Handicap.
Feature event of Tasmanian
Racing Club’s 36th Doncaster
Handicap meeting next Satur-
day at Elwick, Hobart, will be
the Breeders’ Plate (seven fur-
longs). Unlike the A.J.C. race
of that name, which is for two-
year-olds, the T.R.C.’s Breeders’
Plate is open to entrants of from
two to five years old.
* * *
Young Victorian reinsman
Eric Rothacker didn’t only look
a gift-horse in the mouth —he
planted a kiss on his moke as
well after Gentleman John had
landed the final of the Inter-
Dominion Pacing Championship
at Harold Park. Given to Eric
Rothacker as a present from his
father on his 18 th birthday,
Gentleman John has since' won
24 races, culminating in the rich
final win—worth £9500 to the
winner. Sydney’s Lud Mayor
Hills presented owner-trainer-
driver Rothacker with the fat
cheque, the handsome Cup and
a gold-mounted whip, and then
paid floral-tribute with a horse-
shoe of flowers for the driver
and a garland of pink for
Gentleman John.
Six horses from N.S.W., two
Enzedders, a South Australian
and a Victorian toed the line in
the final. Flashy little N.Z.
champ Caduceus was favorite.
Early favorite Springfield Guy
was soon in front, but a sorrow-
ful shake of the head at a
surprise loss of form before the
race by trainer-driver Sindel
made the tailenders of more
interest. The only chance that
Gentleman John was conceded
of winning was for him to hit
the front and stick there; but
they went too fast for his one
solid “bat” early, and Rothacker
held him back for a last smack.
At the turn brilliant local four-
year-old Mineral Spring had the
champion-sash tied firmly round
his neck, but, once in front, he
regarded it as all over, and was
victim of as honest a run down
the straight as you would ever
see by Gentleman John.
Caduceus made up good ground
for third, but there were no
excuses.
Horses are brought from all
over Australia and New Zealand
for the Inter-Dominion, and the
race is a supreme test of a
horse’s qualities. This year heats
were run over Ilf, and 13
furlongs, in that order; the 10
best to get a run in the final
(this year 13£ furlongs) on the
basis of four points for a win,
two for second, one for third
and three for the fastest time in
the first five over the line in
each heat. The horse that
comes through this grind and
has his nose in front last time
round in the final has something
that the run-of-the-mill pacer
hasn’t got.
+ +
John Landy certainly won the
Australian one-mile champion-
ship in remarkable fashion —to
stop, see to a fallen runner and
thus throw himself out of gear,
give away 30yds. to runners of
the class of Henderson and Lin-
coln when nearly threequarters
distance had been run, and
then go on to win by 10yds. be-
speaks the great athlete. As it
also bespeaks the great sports-
man —and Landy is in the top
class in both categories. In the
circumstances his time of 4min.
4.2 sec. is equal to at least 3min.
59sec.
Landy’s effort highlighted a
rather drab first day of the
championships, held at Olympic
Park, Melbourne. Worth perhaps
singling out for mention, Hec.
Hogan’s winning of the 100yds.
for the fifth successive time.
Both last season and this, Hogan,
a Queenslander now of Victoria,
was inconsistent in competition,
but in both years came good at
the right time, to hold his title.
* * *
The two top nations in the pro-
duction of women swimmers are
at present Australia and Holland.
When Lorraine Crapp recently
set new world-records for 400-
metres, 44<pyds., 800-metres and
880yds., she each time bettered
records held by Dutch lasses.
Now another Netherlander,
Cornelia Gastelaar, has within
a fortnight of her swim
bettered by .3sec. Dawn Fraser’s
world-record 64.55ec. which
record had beaten one set by an
earlier Dutchwoman, Willi den
Ouden, back in 1936. On Feb.
6 this year, too, yet another
Dutch lassie, Atie Voorbij, had
set a world 100-metres butterfly
record (lmin. 11.9 sec.).
* * *
On his return from the West
Indies last year lan Johnson
named Neil Harvey and the West
Indians Walcott and Weekes as
the three best batsmen in the
world today. He’s probably
right. Harvey (650 runs, av. 108)
and Walcott (827 runs, av. 82)
dominated the batting in the
Tests in the Indies more so than
did Weekes, though he did well
enough, 469 runs at 58. Now,
over in N-Z., Weekes is over-
shadowing his team-mates (Wal-
cott, of course, is not in the side).
In just about every innings he’s
knocked-up a century, including
one in each of the first three
Tests (123 in the first, 103 in the
second and 156 in the third).
West Indies won the first three
Tests and rubber.
* * #
“Lyle”: The touring combined
Australian universities Rugby
Union side won what was essen-
tially a Test match against All
Japan, 16-14. The match was
played at Fukuoka, in western
Japan, before a crowd of 20,000.
At half-time Australian Univer-
sities led 5-3. The second half
was also evenly contested. At one
stage the scores were level, 11
all. Then the tourists scored a try
and goal. Near the end Japan
scored a try, but failed to con-
vert and achieve a draw. Aus-
tralian Universities scorers were:
tries, D. Richardson two, - N.
Hughes one, W. Wright one. J.
Dowse kicked both conversions.


Probing a Victorian Legend
The Mahogany Ship Mystery
By MARY FINNIN
Australia, anchored to
the seabed between the
Indian and Pacific Oceans,
lay well away from the
trade-routes of wooden ships,
and so for them was a landfall of
disaster rather than hope.
According to a persistent local
tradition, evidence of this is
embedded in the sand-hummocks
west of Warrnambool, Victoria,
in the wreck of a “Spanish
mahogany ship.”
Legend and a minor literature
have sprung up around this
vessel. Her decks were walked
on a century ago; she was seen
80 years ago. But long since the
sands have covered her.
It was to establish the truth
and sift the folklore, to find the
place, and if possible locate the
wreck, that we set off on our
Western District walkabout.
Despite nearly a century-and-
a-half of settlement, the country
of western Victoria has not
changed a great deal. True, the
native-grasses have gone, with
the game they fed and sheltered.
But the plains remain, with
stony rises carrying only sparse
timber at the best; the extinct
vplcanoes, with their rock-ribbed
mouths; the crater-lakes, clear
or storm-dark. All corridors
through which the wind blows
west, and west again.
Even the highways, riding the
ridges as they do, follow roughly
the trails blazed by the early
sheep-men, Armytage and
Russell, Learmonth, Murray and
Manifold—trails which became
the coach-roads of the colony of
Victoria.
Due-west of Geelong the
village of Fyansford is dusted-
over with windblown crushings
from the huge cement-works
which Peter McCann founded
from the local quarries in 1840.
It was Captain Fyans who per-
suaded McCann to leave Port-
land and set-up near Geelong,
“where a great future lay.” It
was Captain Fyans who, at the
head of a color-party and troops
of the 4th Foot Regiment, led
the burgesses of Geelong across
the Fyansford bridge at the open-
ing ceremony in 1854, and so
helped to open-up the Western
District.
The Moorabool has washed
away three bridges since then ;
the steep pinch of Fyansford
Hill, which toppled so many
wool clips in the old days and
bogged-down the bullock-teams,
has been graded and cambered.
What Fyans thought “the love-
liest valley in the world” is now
completely industrialised. And
the road goes west for Inverleigh.
First called Native Hut Creek,
the Leigh joins the Barwon at
Inverleigh. No bark mia-mias
mark a tribal frontier now ; old
bluestone hotels dominate the
bridgehead—once passed by toll.
Grazing - properties are often
separated by stone-fences, the
slopes flanked by windbreaks of
eucalypt-, fir- and pine-planta-
tions. Willows wind along the
creek-channels and the road
loops over the hills to Cressy.
+ +
As in most pastoral country,
the landscape is open to the sky.
Homesteads are mostly set back
from the road at the bend of a
wooded drive. Here and there
mobs of early-shorn sheep
cluster like mushrooms on the
grass. Magpies nest untidily on
telegraph-poles, generally ignor-
ing the wire baskets thoughtfully
provided by the P.M-G. Depart-
ment. We passed Duverney,
where a French pioneer pastured
sheep in 1840. We -crossed
Haunted Gully in bright sun.
The soil is heavily volcanic,
and beyond Lismore the primeval
bulk of Mount Elephant broods
over the surrounding country.
Hawks poised intent above their
rock-strewn territory and crows
kept their sinister lookout in the
sheep-paddocks. An occasional
flock of white-cockatoos was
busily destructive on a stack of
baled hay. With an air of qiild
surprise an owl surveyed the
road from a stone fence. In
fact, there were far more birds
about than people.
We turned south from Mort-
lake, having taken this route in
order to approach the coast from
due north and so pick up a sur-
vey-line from Tower Hill, follow-
ing a map made when the
“mahogany” was last seen about
80 years ago.
South lay Tower Hill, set in
volcanic Lake Koroit, and
beyond lay Warrnambool, Port
Fairy and the Southern Ocean.
The native name for Tower
Hill Lake, Koivoitch, or Koroit
(meaning small fish), has been
adopted by the town. The lake,
about four miles long by one
broad, is crescent-shaped, and
lies more than 250 ft. below the
level of the road at the bottom of
the crater of which Tower Hill
is the centre. Although the lake
itself is shallow, the sides of the
crater are precipitous, and even
on a still day air-currents ripple
the waters.
Standing on a line drawn south
of south-east of the summit of
Tower Hill, the traditional site
of the “mahogany ship” is in
the sand-hummocks which cut
that line as they fringe the bays
separating Warrnambool and
Port Fairy.
We moved south ; faint on the
horizon, overseas liners stood-
off for Adelaide and Melbourne.
But we were concerned with the
weight of time on the ancient
ship of the legend, mahogany,
Spanish, with high, towering
decks and galleried stern, from
whose wreck wandered “yellow
men,” from whose rotting
timbers leaked gold moidores.
Now, as to this legend. The
wide arms of the bays between
Portland and Warrnambool
furnished anchorage for many
ships of whalers and sealers from
at least 1790 onward. (In these
days of air-traffic and ocean
liners whose average tonnage is
many thousands, it is difficult to
appreciate the enormous
numbers of small wooden ships
which thronged the world’s trade-
routes in the 17th and 18th
centuries.) But these bays pro-
vided at best an uncertain haven
from the treacherous seas of
Bass Strait. Southerly or easterly
gales were a terror to wind-ships
in these waters, driving them on
to reefs or shoreward to be
pounded by the surf or beached
in the hummocks.
Of what nationality were the
ships which could have entered
Bass Strait in the late-18 th
century, after one has accounted
for the official exploratory ex-
peditions sent out by the French
and British Governments?
At this time the great Euro-
pean Powers were involved in
the struggle between England
and France for supremacy of the
sea. This resulted in a certain
diversion of British and probably
Scandinavian and French ships
to southern waters. There could
be the straying of an odd Portu-
guese ship bound for Goa in
India. There could not have been
many vessels -tempted or driven
so far south.
I have deliberately set the
earliest date of the wreck as not
before 1780-1790, for the simple
reason that a timber vessel of
an earlier date could not have
lasted while exposed in the hum-
mocks to the abrasion of wind,
salt, spray and sand for 40'years
and still be more-or-less intact
in 1876.
Furthermore, 'no less an
authority on wooden ships than
John Masefield —who has gone
into the matter exhaustively and
given invaluable help assures
me that “few wooden ships lasted
15 years, and imbecility and
dishonesty and pigheadedness in
the dockyards all worked against
this record.”
But the legend said, “a
mahogany ship, Spanish.” We
would see.
We were using a map prepared
from the sight-bearing of Cap-
tain J. B. Mills, harbormaster of
Port Fairy, who first saw the
wreck in 1836: “Well to the
eastward of Gorman’s Lane,
proceed eastward along the
beach until you bring the point
of land on which the old iron
church stood in line with the
highest point of Tower Hill. The
wreck would be almost in line
with these objects—well in the
hummocks.”
+ +
Strangely, Gorman's Lane
remained, still so called and
leading uncompromisingly to the
sea. The site of the old church
was found ; the marshes and the
hummocks. If anything, the
hummocks would be pushed
further inland over the years
by the prevailing westerly, south-
westerly and easterly - gales,
although growth of vegetation
would certainly help to limit, if
not stop, the drift. The gales
of August,. 1955, were strong
enough to shatter a century-old
stone-church in Portland.
Allowing for inaccuracy in
Captain Mills’s bearing, we
operated within an area of a
quarter of a mile eastward and
west of his line and up to three-
quarters of a mile from high-
tide level. In this area nothing
was found except recent pieces of
driftwood. Nor was this unex-
pected, as the, legendary ship
would surely lie far under the
surface by now. It remained to
sift all the historical material we
had gathered, check for sources,
and look for clues among the
population of the district,
through word-of-mouth tradition
of descendants of pioneers. These
latter readily divided into the
romantic, the credulous and the
frankly sceptical.
The weather was fine, the surf
quiet in a strength of long, wear-
ing rollers. Skylarks sang their
hearts out above lush flats yellow
with capeweed. Farm terriers
lifted legs conscientiously against
the car-wheels, in order to
acquaint dogs in distant places of
the latest news from Warrnam-
bool, Port Fairy, Tower Hill.
Opinion on the spot, while
adding no , information, was
spiced with neighborly malice.
One example suffices: “Said he
played on the ship as a boy, did
he? But then he always was an
awful ruddy liar. He’d say he
played on the Queen Mary if
he thought it would do any good
with you city slickers.”
As another puzzling feature,
there is the surprising use of the
word “mahogany.” For this
wood at all times rare and
costly for the cabinetmaker’s
craft —has never been recorded
as material for the shipwright’s
trade, at least as far as ocean-
going vessels are concerned.
Shipworm, weather and wave
were cruelly hard on wooden
ships, which had nothing like
the life of steel hulls. Timbers
most in use were English-oak,
“African-oak,” Canadian-oak,
and teak, which was best of all
for hulls and main decks, with
softwood, such as pine and elm,
for lesser decking, spruce and
firs for masts and spars.
Cedar, walnut and mahogany
were at times used for cabin-
furniture and for panelling, carv-
ing and scrollwork; but such
trimming would hardly justify
the description “a mahogany
ship.”
The first recorded use of this
description is about 40 years
after the ship was first sighted in
the hummocks, and several years
after she was last seen. No one
who saw her so described her,
the nearest being Captain
Mason’s statement, “the timber
of which she was built had the
appearance of mahogany or
cedar.”
Such relics as are claimed to
have been recovered from the
wreck-site are of metal, but are
corroded and without any
distinguishing quality to estab-
lish the type of vessel from which
they came. These fragments are
a bronze bolt, the latch of a
galley fireplace, and various
small pieces of iron.
As to the age and position of
the wreck, the statement made
by Captain John Mason, of Port
Fairy, in 1876 reads:
Riding along the beach from Port
Fairy to Warrnambool in the summer
of 1846, my attention was attracted
to the hull of a vessel embedded high
and dry in the hummocks far above
the reach of any tide.
It appears to be that of r a vessel
of about 100 tons burden, and from
its bleached and weatherbeaten
appearance must have been there
many years. The spars and decks
were gone, and the hull full of drift-
sand. The timber of which she was
built had the appearance of mahogany
or cedar. .
The fact of the vessel being in that
position was well known to whalers
in 1846, when the first whaling-
station was formed in that neighbor-
hood, and the oldest natives, when
questioned, stated that their know-
ledge of it extended from their
earliest recollection.
My attention was again directed to
this wreck during a conversation with
Mr. S. W. McGowan, the Super-
intendent of the Melbourne General
Post Office, in 1869, who, on making
inquiry as to the exact locality,
informed me that it was supposed to
be one of a fleet of Portuguese or
Spanish ships, one of which, having
parted from the others in a storm,
was never again heard of.
Notice how, in the forward
movement of time, the legend
grows.
Captain Mills stated that he
stood on her deck in 1843. A
surveyor, M. C. Donnelly,
recorded that he saw portion of
her hull showing out of the hum-
mocks in 1880, the last fact that
we can pin down.
During the decade 1837-1847
there are numerous accounts of
the wreck having been seen, but
not from the beach, and in every
instance given as a recollection
25 or more years later, when
details could easily blur, the
accounts become confused. The
first road from Warrnambool to
Port Fairy skirted the hum-
mocks, and the hull of the
vessel appears to have been
visible from about 1836 to some-
time in the ’fifties, then inter-
mittently until its disappearance.
Much has been made of the
unanimity of testimony regarding
the site in the hummocks so
far from the water —how could
the vessel have got there? Surely
the answer is that a foundered
ship, stranded in such an area,
would make the nucleus of a
hummock by its own bulk under
the scourge of continually-blow-
ing easterlies and southerlies. The
making of a road further inland
in the ’fifties caused the marsh-
beset hummocks-road to Port
Fairy to become disused and
finally to disappear.
It is interesting that A. C.
Clarke, who, as official surveyor
laying-out the town of Portland,
spent weeks in the district in
1849, makes no mention in his
diary of the wreck.
Assistant-surveyor C. J. Tyers
records a wreck in his diary-
entry for February 7, 1841:
Tidings have come to the town
[Portland] of a wreck somewhere
along the coast and several, wax-
candles, a keg containing a boat-
compass (maker Devot of Havre),
lantern .and matches and numerous
other articles having been picked up
on the beach between Portland and
Port Fairy.
The Police Magistrate, Messrs.
S. and V. Henty and myself, with
my light cart and four men, Mrs.
Blair ? s servant and Mr. Henty and
one man, proceeded to Port Fairy
along the beach to render what
assistance lay in our power, should
we be fortunate enough to fall in
with any of the sufferers.
No clue was obtained, but it is
supposed to have been a French
whaler. She had evidently been some
time under water, previously to the
breaking-up —from the quantity of
barnacles on the pieces of wreck
and cargo.
Could this have been the
Spanish mahogany ship—
a French whaler built with the
broad beam and high stern
characteristic of ships from
Brittany and Normandy? The
site would appear too far west
for our quarry.
In the period 1836-1850 more
than a score of ships were
wrecked in this vicinity. These
include the schooner Thistle
(famous for its connection with
the Hentys ; her timbers lie under
the sand eastward of the site of
the mahogany ship) and the
Enterprise (in which Fawkner
sailed up the Yarra to establish
his claim to Port Phillip). The
Enterprise was wrecked in 1850,
eastward of the mahogany ship.
When one looks for dates of
when first this wreck was men-
tioned as a lost galleon from
some Spanish or Portuguese
expedition, and from which
“yellow men” survived to
astonish the natives, a curious
fact emerges —that the legend of
the mahogany ship did not
develop until some time after
the publication of Geoffrey
Hamlyn, by Henry Kingsley, in
the 1850’s. In this book Kingsley
states: —
Down the coast, under a hopeless
black basaltic cliff, is to be seen
the wreck of a very, very old ship,
now covered with coral and sea-
weed. I waited down there for a
spring-tide, but could determine
nothing, save that she was very old,
whether Dutch or Spanish I know
not. You English should never
sneer at these two nations —they
were before you everywhere.
Kingsley adds the footnote:
Such a ship may be seen at the
eastern end of Portland Bay, near
the modern town of Port Fairy.
+ +
Now, the only time that Henry
Kingsley was known to be in the
Western District was when he
was staying as the guest of the
McKnight family at Dunmore.
Henry Kingsley was not idle;
nor were the local masters of the
legpull in their dealings with this
interested newchum.
Indeed, one summer evening,
looking for local-color for his
Australian book, King s 1 e y
strolled along the old jetty at
Port Fairy and interviewed
Captain Mason and Captain
Lewis Grant, whose ship, the
barque Socrates, had been
wrecked off the coast in 1843.
They spoke of “the old wreck
in the hummocks” —and there
was conceived the Spanish
mahogany ship.
As to the dark, hard wood of
her decks, Captain Mason
examined a house at Farnham
Survey which was partly built
from timber taken off the wreck.
He decided that the saturation of
whale-oil had made the wood
extra dark and durable, and con-
sidered that the broad, puntlike
(<Continued on page 30)


MOST
RESTFUL WAY
TO HURRY . . ,
FLY LOCKHEED
i/fieh
( Quiet Luxury to make the Time Fly • New Speed to
shorten the Distance • Far quieter for great comfort . Wider
aisles . Larger windows . Wider seats . Finest Air
Conditioning . Restful 5-cabin privacy . Inviting Starlight
Lounge . Interior design by Henry Dreyfuss . For all
the speed, and quiet comfort, too, fly Super
Constellations over every ocean and continent on
' x 2O world airlines: ,
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
and
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
afford Super Constellation
Service to 5 Continents
from Australia
Lockheed
AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, BUR SAN K. CALI FO R N lA, USA
Fop your future travel enjoyment:
The Super Constellation 1649 A with its
new high speed, long range wing, is a
further development in the Constellation
series of world famous aircraft.
It will go into service to carry out the
Lockheed tradition of Leadership.
■j&Bk
■
T
/ v Tg
Private Lite
of Adolf Hitler
Was the Fuehrer insane? What
about his mistress, Eva Braun
—did he really marry her the
night before they planned to
kill themselves?
In March Reader’s Digest
Heinz Linge, Hitler’s valet for
twenty . years, now reveals
hitherto unknown facts about
the Nazi dictator.
Get March Reader’s Digest at
your newsstand: a wealth of
articles of lasting interest, in-
cluding hilarious anecdotes from
the life of "The one and only
Benchley,” "World’s most won-
derful store,” "Housekeeping
at the Arctic’s edge,” "Test
that tells how fast you live.”
Plus" a long book condensation
of "I Was Soviet Slave IE-
-241” —an unforgettable account
of Red brutality. Only 2/-.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET'S SOUTH-EAST ASIA DRIVE
TIZITH Indonesia’s abrogation
’* of the Dutch-Indonesian
Union and its announcement that
it would welcome economic
assistance from Russia, the
Soviet’s economic and propa-
ganda offensive now stretches
from Suez to just north of Aus-
tralia. The Soviet has been quick
to adapt American tactics of
handing-out economic and other
assistance, showing its own par-
ticular appreciation of the Asiatic
temperament and a ready
facility to profit by the mistakes
of other countries.
There is more to the Russian
campaign than an adaptation of
American methods, however.
As Harry Schwartz points out in
“New York Times,” nebulous
offers of trade were made by the
Soviet in Stalin’s day, but they
were nebulous, with no apparent
substance behind them. Now,
however, the Soviet’s industrial
strength is greatly increased, its
output of scientific and technical
manpower is rising all the time,
and its economic resources are
much more impressive. As
Schwartz notes, “to put the
- matter simply, the Soviet Union
has far more flexibility in
foreign economic policy now
when it produces 50,000,000
short-tons of steel annually than
it had five years ago, when it
turned out less than 30,000,000
tons.”
At the same time the Soviet
Government has seen its oppor-
tunity in the agricultural prob-
lems of the free world. The fall
in prices since the end of the
Korean war, plus the pressure
of U.S. surpluses, has left some
countries in difficulties —unable
to export their crops and, at the
same time, unable to obtain
supplies of steel and machinery
needed for development because
of the “soaring industrial pros-
perity of the United States and
Western Europe”:
“Thus the opportunity to
make friends and influence
people by offering to take farm-
surpluses in exchange for steel
and machinery was obvious to
Moscow’s well - informed
strategists.”
Also, Schwartz concludes, the
Soviet is probably gambling on
the premise that the U.S. is due
for a major depression—
Russian commentators are say-
ing that this was only avoided
last year by the immense
growth of consumer-credit, a
factor now almost exhausted.
At any rate, whatever the
motives and forces behind the
Soviet’s economic drive, from
the Middle East to South-East
Asia, the West, for the moment,
seems at a loss on how To
compete with it. \
The Middle East
The Russians have been quick
to fish in the troubled Israel-
Arab waters. London “Specta-
tor,” in a comment typical of
several British papers, holds that
“British Middle Eastern policy
n f0i1,,,-,*”-
“The Levant as once viewed
by the Foreign Office is now
such stuff as dreams are made
on. Perhaps it always was. The
picture is very different today:
Egypt accepting Soviet arms and
technicians ; Jordan the scene of
riots against adhesion to the
Baghdad pact; Saudi Arabia
causing trouble with the large
sums Q f mone y coming to her
f rom royalties paid by
Aramco [Arabian American Oil
Co j . R uss i a intervening actively
in an area where the on]y r jv a i_
r j es were once between Britain
anc } America. The Prime
Minister’s statement in Parlia-
ment and the Russian warning
against British or American
intervention in the Middle East
have once again made it clear
that this has become potentially
the most dangerous theatre of
the cold war.”
An American comment on
the same area —by the able
“New York Times” foreign-
affairs wr j ter q l Sulzberger—
adds that „ the situation that
developed in 1955 was too
favorable for the Kremlin to
neglect”:
“An unnecessary crisis was
permitted to develop in Cyprus,
creating a gap between the
Greeks and Turks and opening;.
the road for penetration.
Simultaneously we [jthe U.S.]
challenged the U.S.S.R. by
fostering the Baghdad Pact.
Communist reaction was to
leapfrog across this Northern
tier, already split at Turkey’s
.western border, and peddle
arms and influence among the
Arab States.
“This left us in a highly
embarrassed position. Colonel
Nasser, who aspires to Arab
leadership, has used his new
weapons successfully to black-
mail the West. He confides
great admiration for Tito, who
showed him how to get help
from both Power-Woes without
joining either. Nasser is an apt
pupil.
“The satellite arms-deal with
Cairo changed a strategic
balance the Allies sought un-
easily to preserve. By June
Egypt alone will have a military
edge on Israel. The approach
of this date therefore brings the
world closer to the brink of war.
Israeli jingoes urge their Gov-
ernment to strike before then.
Later, they fear, the Arabs will
prepare an overall assault.
Meanwhile the West, insisting
Russia can have no say in
Palestine, assumes responsibility
for a peace it may be unable to
keep.”
Arab and Israeli
Not only Russia has objected
to British and American inter-
vention in the Middle East. At
the Washington talks between
Eden and Eisenhower the Tri-
partite Declaration by which
Britain, the U.S. and France
guarantee the Israel-Jordan
frontier was reaffirmed, only to
bring angry protests from both
Israel and lordan against the
right of the three Powers to
intervene at all.
In this situation Edinburgh
“Scotsman” suggests that the
wisest course would be to pre-
vent either side from becoming
too strong:
“Since the Russians have
started supplying arms to the
Arabs, the British cannot afford
to stop doing so if they want to
keep Arab favor. But while
Centurion tanks have been sent
to Arab countries in recent
months, it appears that Israel is
getting none.
“Unless some definite guaran-
tee is given by the Western
Powers, Israel may go to war
before it is too late. Such a
guarantee is difficult to give for
the same reason that it is diffi-
cult to stop supplying the Arabs
with arms. If the West inter-
vened against an attack on
Israel by Arab countries, Russia
could sweep the Arab world into
her camp by espousing their
cause against the ‘pro-Israel’
Western Powers. If Israel were
the aggressor it might be a
different matter —a small coun-
try, no oil, and only the vote
in New York State to worry
about.
“Some of the present trouble
stems from the split in the Arab
world caused by the Baghdad
Pact, which, though it was partly
inspired by Washington, is now
unpopular there as well as in
France. Irak (the only Arab
member of the pact) and Egypt
have been bidding against each
other in the degree of their
hostility to Israel. In order to
bring the Arab countries
together again, and reduce the
tension with Israel, the best
course for the West is to offer
large-scale economic aid as they
have already done for the build-
ing of the Aswan Dam. If
there is one thing calculated to
remove all thought of war from
Egyptian minds it is the Aswan
Dam.”
Cyprus
The Communists have not
been slow to cash-in on what
most British papers regard as
the unhappy fumbling of the
Cyprus situation, with conse-
quent deterioration of Anglo-
Greek relations.
Commenting in London
“Contemporary Review” on
what he calls the “Cyprus
tragedy,” Thomas Anthem
opines that “the Near East
defensive-system, with that of
the Middle East, lies hr ruins,
and there has been a singular
lack of awareness of the fact
until recently on the part of the
[British] Conservative Govern-
ment” :
“The Balkan Tripartite Pact
[between Turkey, Greece and
Yugoslavia] hailed with great
enthusiasm by the two major
democracies, is virtually dead,
and it is only a matter of time
until is is formally denounced
by the Greek Government. For,
in trying to hold on to Cyprus
by force, instead of conceding
the principle of self-determina-
tion at the outset and agreeing
to a time-limit, Britain has
shown a striking capacity for
grasping at the shadow and
losing the substance.
“We have lost the friendship
of Greece, and by permitting Sir
John Harding to set-up what is
tantamount to a military dicta-
torship in Cyprus and indulge
in the jailing and whipping of
schoolboys—a practice which
the British public does not
countenance in the case of our
own little hooligans at home—
to impose collective-fines on
villages, after the manner of
Hitler’s collective-punishment;
carry out mass-detentions, and
round-up villagers behind
barbed-wire, as though they
were Mau Mau, have so deeply
offended and embittered the
kindly Greek Cypriot people
that the most indispensable con-
dition for any military base, the
goodwill of the native commun-
ity, has been practically
destroyed.
“If the majority of the Greek
peace - loving people have
deplored the violence shown
towards British troops by
Eoka [Cypriot Communists],
they have also been incensed by
the indiscriminate shooting of
several innocent Greek persons
under the pretext of not stopping
when challenged or during
popular demonstrations.
“Whatever the zeal or the in-
discretions of Athens Radio or
the Greek press, there can be no
doubt that the resentment and
growing hostility in Greece itself
is due to the clumsy and repres-
sive measures adopted in
Cyprus.”
There have, of course, been
troubles and riots in Cyprus
before, stemming from the
island’s insistence on union
with Greece, but in the current
instance the Communists have
done their best to aggravate the
situation and, as London “Time
and Tide” notes, “they glory in
what they are doing”:
“The Communists were totally
defeated in the [Greek] civil war,
during which they massacred
some 50,000 Greek men, women
and children, and, had it not
been for British and American
aid to Greece, would have
turned Greece into a satellite
State and established the Soviet
Union on the Eastern Mediter-
ranean. They are full of hope
once more in Greece. They are
prohibited as a party, but com-
mand at least 10 per cent, of
the electorate. In Cyprus,
where they are also prohibited as
a party, they are by far the
strongest and best-disciplined
political organisation.”
Afghanistan
South-west, on the road from
the Middle East to India,
Afghanistan appears to be suc-
cumbing to Soviet blandish-
ments. C. L. Sulzberger sees


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/-
yearly ... 22/6
tih
y
$9• • •
The worcK
for Brandy
since 1858
a*
speoalhospit
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL**
TST.4B.ia
wm
IT AFPOINTMfNT
MR MAJESTY TW QOfW
Usmvm or motor urißOUfft
CtWtffflOl I CO. ITQ. 10N00N wt
flit- 0
OH
#Ol°*
&
yO'J
C
//•;
enoume,
for
(S) unlit,
J
y
“This ancient kingdom, which
has survived Greek, Mongol,
Persian and British conquests,”
as now seemingly doomed:
“On December 18 last the
Afghan Premier agreed to
accept a Soviet credit of
$100,000,000. This amounts to
almost five times total State
revenues during the last fiscal-
year. Computed at Govern-
ment-tolerated free-market rates
of exchange, the national 1955
income was $21,340,206.
“How can Afghanistan’s
backward economy absorb or
repay this loan? How much
will find its way into the pockets
of the royal clan that governs
in the name of Shah Moham-
med Zahir? Even Nehru, who
resisted similar blandishments in
India, concluded that Afghani-
stan must now be under Soviet
domination to accept such an
immense sum.
“This extension of Soviet
influence toward the Khyber
Pass is a logical development.
Miserable as is the life of
Central Asian peoples in the
U.S.S.R., it compares favorably
with the feudal squalor of
Afghanistan.”
Pakistan
Pakistan is also receiving
Communist attention, the object
apparently being neutralisation,
with the consequent shaking or
destruction of both the South-
East Asia Treaty Organisation
and the Baghdad alliance —
Pakistan, as a member of both,
is thus the link between Seato
and, through Baghdad, Nato.
Last December, at Srinagar,
capital of Kashmir, Khrushchev
attacked Pakistan for participat-
ing in the Baghdad Pact and for
allowing American bases on
Pakistan soil. Khrushchev was
wooing India then, but now, as
Edinburgh “Scotsman” notes,
Russian diplomacy has achieved
its immediate object in India by
the creation of a more Leftist
atmosphere, and “the time has
been judged appropriate for a
cautious approach to Pakistan”:
“It is the perfect example of
eating one’s cake and having it.
Yet in spite of the anger which
greeted the Srinagar speech
Mr. Chamidul Huq Choudhry,
Pakistan’s Foreign Minister,
chose to leave the door open for
talks. The condition of any
Russian aid would apparently
be the adoption of a Nehru-style
neutralist policy, and, unlikely
as this may seem, considering
the present state of opinion in
Pakistan, there is not much com-
fort for the West in the whole
situation.
“Only recently Pakistan con-
cluded a trade-pact with Poland.
The economic needs of the
country are acute, and the
temptation to accept help from
any quarter at all must be very
strong. The Foreign Minister
hints in rather guarded terms
that the special problems of
Pakistan have not been suffi-
ciently appreciated. Unfortun-
ately, though American
economic aid in the 1956 fiscal-
year will total nearly £36
million (in addition to Seato
and Middle East development-
aid) there has been some frustra-
tion over the actual working of
these plans.”
“It had come to be regarded
'almost as an axiom of British,
policy that the Moslem countries
would be our most loyal friends
in the East, and the most im-
pervious to Communism. No
doubt the Kremlin has given
special attention ,to this problem,
with results which can be seen
in recent events. Broadly, the
idea is to make use of the large
Moslem minorities in the Soviet
Union itself as a proof that
religion and Communism can
thrive together.”
India
In India Mr. Nehru continues
to follow what has been called
his “tricky neutralism.” India
wants to trade with both the
U.S. and the U.S.S.R.; it objects
to U.S. aid to Pakisfan and estab-
lishment of military bases there;
it condemns Communists within
India, and yet accorded Messrs.
Khrushchev and Bulganin an
almost hysterical welcome —and
all this while Russia directs
Indian Communists to, exploit
any domestic weaknesses, and at
the same time offers economic
and diplomatic help to the Indian
Government.
It makes what “New York
Times” describes editorially as
“all the more puzzling a foreign
policy, which—in the name of
friendship with all countries and
non-alignment with any camp
except the ‘camp of peace’—
specialises in chastising the West
for its defensive measures while
ignoring the fact that the
Soviets have already imposed on
hundreds of millions the very
fate which the Indian Com-
munists would like to impose on
India.”
This paradox, A. M. Rosenthal
notes elsewhere in “New York
Times,” stems from “a com-
bination of Soviet adaptability,
American clumsiness and Indian
shortsightedness” :
“Whose fault is if?
“They say sometimes in this
part of the world [New'Delhi]
that we Americans are an
arrogant lot really, given to
boasting and throwing our
weight around and telling the
rest of the world what’s good
for it.
“To the extent that we talk
too much about the big punch
and bomber-range and massive
retaliation and the art of verg-
ing on war, it is our fault if
Asians do not think of us as we
think of ourselves. To the extent
that we have become fuzzy about
colonial issues and have raised
doubts about where we stand,
the fault is also ours.
“But that is not the complete
answer. Some of the responsi-
bility attaches itself to the Indian
Government —its own fears, its
own self-deceptions. The fault
of the Government of India is
that it has concentrated on
American sins and Soviet virtues
and, not realising the con-
sequences, has held up to the
Indian people a false image of
both countries.”
The Initiative
Summing-up the effects of the
Soviet’s drive in general, “Man-
chester Guardian” concludes that
“the fact grows plainer that in
Asia at present the initiative has
passed from the West to Russia”:
“It is now six years since the
West invented the Colombo Plan.
For a time the West enjoyed
prestige because of the plan. But
the credit for this beneficent
action is now running out. So
is the credit for the great post-
war emancipation of the Indian
sub-continent.
“Free Asia is now more con-
cerned with the emancipation
which has not taken place. Goa
and New Guinea are more
present to its mind. The speeches
which much of Free Asia wants
to hear are now made by the
Russians, not by Western
politicians.
“When it [Asia] looks towards
Moscow it sees Mr. Khrushchev,
who tells Free Asia that it is in
danger from ‘new colonialism,’
that the West is aiming at
entangling Asian countries in
military alliances, and that he
sympathises very much with
Asia’s desire to be neutral.
“Free Asia,” “Manchester
Guardian” adds, “may not be
taken in by the Russian flatteries
as much as Mr. Khrushchev
supposes,” but “it will be none-
theless alarming and ominous if
there settles upon the Asian
countries a feeling that they can
gain little from close intellectual
communion with the West.
“The nationalists of Free Asia
may hope that they can sustain
their own civilisation, inde-
pendent of both Communism
and the West.
“Yet Moscow'is pretty clearly
satisfied that, if it can divide
Asia from the West politically
and intellectually, it will not be
long before all Asia becomes
Communist. It hopes to make
Russia, Russia’s achievements,
and Russia’s future occupy so
large a place in the mind of Asia
that it will be taken for granted
that the next century belongs to
Communism.
“It has not yet come anywhere
near to doing that. But in the
last six months it has made an
advance, and nothing is gained
by not recognising it.”


Research in Industry
No. 22 in a Series
“ENDEAVOUR”
Just as Cook and Colum-
bus sailed into uncharted
waters in their quest for
new worlds to conquer, so
does the scientist of today
set out to explore the
unknown in the realms of
chemistry and physics in
his search for new sub-
stances which can be applied to the betterment of mankind.
Scientific research in 1.C.1. laboratories throughout the world
costs millions of pounds every year, but it produces new
discoveries and inventions which will prove of value to
industry, to the farmer, in fact, to every member of our
community.
In Australia, ICIANZ Ltd. has recently opened the new
Merrindale Agriculture Reseaich Station at Croydon in
Victoria, where trained technical men will work on problems
relating to the use of chemicals in the primary industries
in this country.
The Research Station is the first of a number of such estab-
lishments which will be set up by ICIANZ for the full develop-
ment of chemicals in primary and secondary industries and
the future prosperity of Australia.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND MEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
■L.82C.29288
THE ROYAL EASTER
SfriOW
23rd March to 3rd April, 1956—10 days 8 nights.
eating, the clouds went and the
moon flooded like water over the
paddocks; made them grey like
sand. No fear of rain then, no
fear of bogging. Everyone would
be able to go. Everyone did.
Mrs. Wylie had decorated the
hall with gumleaves and Thelma
had put a great tin of new spring
wattle (nurse-like) near the open
door so .that no one could pos-
sibly get the sneezes. Mrs. Wylie
remembered that wattle inside is
bad luck but let it stay because
it looked “bright.” And what
with that shout of color, the cool
of the leaves, and the streamers
left over from the school
Christmas-tree the hall looked
like a party and everyone kept
saying how lovely it was. We
all sat on the seats that lined the
wall and tried to look like a party
too. The men started to talk
about the weather and planting,
and the women started to talk
about. . .
Well, there were Mr. Ferguson
and Thelma standing together
and although he looked a bit
timid, as someone remarked, he
didn’t look as though he were
being tortured. So you can guess
\yhat the women were talking
about.
The pianist from town played
a couple of dance-tunes, but no
one moved and really the music
seemed to embarrass people.
They’d sort of falter in their talk-
ing, and that gave them another
chance to look at Mr. Ferguson.
Whenever he caught anyone’s
glance, he smiled. But rather
nervously.
The pianist from town,
discouraged and unconscious of
life as we knew life, was devoted
apparently to art as the town
sees art, and he burst with atten-
tion-commanding brilliance into
a very simple waltz. My father,
knowing my capabilities and my
fear of him, ordered me to dance.
So I got up with Lucy the
widow, the guest-of-honor, and
Ted Wylie, ordered by his
mother, got up with someone
else. Lucy’s publican asked Mrs.
Broome and caused a laugh and
then asked someone who
accepted. The dancing had
started! The pianist, mad with
success, launched into a pro-
gressive barn-dance that dragged
almost everyone up. The change
of partners made for lots of
laughter and some skittish jump-
ing about so that the school-kids
had to restrict their sliding up
and down to the end of the hall,
near the front door. They saw
Miss Millaney first.
C|HE came through them —they
stood as still as cattle —and
then stopped and stood looking
at the pianist.
Gradually, but quickly, every-
one knew that she was there and
the dancing almost stopped too.
Everyone looked at her, but she
seemed not to notice. She stared
straight at the pianist as though
what his hands were doing was
the only thing that mattered.
She was dressed in an old-
fashioned party-dress with a
ribbon for a belt. Her hair was
tied with a ribbon too, but it was
hanging down and was very long.
Her thin, sunburnt face looked
very tight. You could see the
bones of her cheeks and 'a little
muscle under them that twitched.
Her eyes were bright and big.
“She’s mad,” said Mrs.
Broome in the loud voice that
deaf people use. “Mad like her
father, the poor little dear!”
Everyone heard her ; and Miss
Millaney, too. But she just
laughed, and turned and smiled
at the old woman because she
knew, as we all rather unhappily
knew, that Mrs. Broome meant
well.
Her smile livened us all up
again. The dance jollied. The
kids began sliding. The talk
started. And Mrs. Wylie, worried,
no doubt, but determinedly
triumphant, went down towards
the door and welcomed her.
Miss Millaney had not been to
a social gathering for over ten
years but she had remembered
her manners and shook hands.
“ Aren't men all the same?”
But before Mrs. Wylie had
finished talking she walked away.
She walked straight up the hall
where Mr. Ferguson and Thelma
were standing. Everyone watched
her again. This was something-
like.
She stopped not far from them
and half-smiled at Mr. Ferguson,
half-shrugged her shoulders.
Then she turned her back on
them and looked out of the
window. Outside was the pear-
tree, covered with blossom that
hung white in the moonlight.
“Let’s dance, dear,” said
Thelma and put her hand on Mr.
Ferguson’s shoulder. Miss Mil-
laney gave a cry. It was a fuhny
sound. “Gave a cry” is the only
phrase for it. It was like a little
girl and I thought—l was dancing
near them with Mrs. Wallace —I
thought for the very first time:
Miss Millaney’s a girl, she’s only
a girl; she knows' nothing about
life; I’m older than she is. (I
was twenty-two.)
I looked at her and saw that
she was almost pale and that her
lip was trembling and her hands
moving as though they didn’t
belong to her. I thought she
was having some kind of a fit;
I’d read about such things. I let
go my partner’s waist to go and
help her but before I could move
she ran down the length of the
hall, ran with Mr. Ferguson run-
ning after her. This made every-
one stop, everyone but the
pianist, who also knew nothing
about life.
Mr. Ferguson must have
caught up with her outside the
door, must have held on to her
with his hands, because we
could hear her.
We could all hear her shout-
ing. “Let me go. Let me go.
Let me die. I saw it, I tell you.
I saw it. Her neck bent over. A
girl on a tree.”
And then Mr. Ferguson’s
voice, but we couldn’t hear any
words, only her sobbing.
“Who’d marry me?” she was
saying. “Who’d marry me? Mad
and alone. Mad from the first,
the bride of death. That’s what
I’ll be. That’s what I’ll be. Let
me go mad and die.”
She was sobbing and crying,
a shocking sort of sound. Even
the kids stayed quiet although
the pianist, big-town to the last,
went on playing “Lily of
Laguna”; went on and on.
After a minute she became
quieter and we could hear Mr.
Ferguson’s voice, even and quiet.
We’d all of us have liked to
move closer to the door hat none
of us could do it, not in front
of the others. We just had to
wait. Then there was silence.
One of the kids looked out.
“They’re walking away,” he said.
“Sir’s holding her arm.”
THE pianist was still playing
and some of the couples
began to dance again, but of
course everyone was looking at
Mrs. Wylie. Thelma, sensible
and young, came and got me to
dance, but Mrs. Wylie just stood
there looking shocked and
twitching occasionally with
indignation. After a while she
remarked to anyone near her
that she couldn’t imagine what
had got into Mr. Ferguson; and
went and sat down.
And the dance went on.
When it was supper and even
the pianist' had stopped, Mr.
Ferguson arrived back.
“Friends,” he said. “I have an
announcement to make. Miss
Millaney and I have become
engaged.”
Everyone said something at
once and Thelma asked me to
pass her some more cake. Mrs.
Wylie could be heard above
everyone saying that she was
delighted, that she hoped they’d
be happy, that she’d known it
was coming and that she was
pleased the evening was a double
celebration. It was a nice
speech, but the Widow Lucy
burst out laughing in the middle
of it and just couldn’t stop, which
rather spoilt it.
And so they were married and
settled in the district and seemed
to live very happily. So that’s
what a legend can do. And
Thelma sat for her exam, and
went to the city to train. And
the widow married the publican.
AND did Miss Millaney really
see it? The bride in the
tree?
Tom—Mr. Ferguson—told me
afterwards that just before the
wedding she came barging into
his room to see him while he
was getting dressed.
“Tom,” she said. “Tom, you
don’t have to do it. I didn’t see
anything, not really saw it. I
went there hoping. I thought
there’d be magic; the old times
would help. I saw something
white. It was only the tree. I
tricked you. I tricked you.
Deliberately.”
“Did you?” said Mr. Fer-
guson. “I’m glad you did.”
“Are you? Are you?” She
looked at his face.
Her eyes, he told me, stared
straight as stars.
“Yes, Helen. Yes.”
“Good. Then let’s get
married,” she said. “I saw some-
thing.”
And she went away and got
dressed.
stern of the wreck would be that,
not of an ocean-going vessel, but
of a small craft such as was used
to carry blubber from the large
whalers to the boiling-down
works on the shore. The
romantic mind built up a tower-
ing galleon, added centuries to
her age, and the old whaling-
punt slid under the sand.
But what of the “yellow men”
alleged to have confounded the
aborigines? No smoke without
fire, of course; but again there
is no word of this until the
1870’s, 1880’s, 1890’s, when there
was no opportunity of getting
reliable evidence from the sur-
viving natives, few of whom had
been born at the time when the
wreck was first seen.
The best that I can do about
this is to point out that the crews
of several wrecks included many
Chinese, and when the Sarah
Louise (216 tons) was lost, with
her cargo of wheat and tallow,
in fs49 off Mills’ Reef one of her
Chinese crew contributed to the
folklore of Port Fairy by having
his feet roasted at a big fire lit
in the hummocks to revive the
almost unconscious survivors!
Two other points should be
noted: that the wreck is sited
much nearer to Warmambool
than Port Fairy ; that the former
centre cultivated the mahogany-
ship legend—indeed, since 1890
has organised investigations of
the site —but that Port Fairy
has stood fast by the sealers and
whalers who founded it.
Of course the craft could have
been a galleon, after long months
of sailing caught in the trap
of Bass Strait. The site would
appear fairly well established,
if only some definite clue were
forthcoming to defeat time and
the sand.
As X-ray photography from
the air has lately supplied
answers to the mysteries of
Stonehenge and other Druidical
remains, it may well be that
the aerial-camera will give us
a final location for the wreck,
lay bare the bones of her story,
and lay the literary ghost-ship
which for so long has symbolised
a landfall of disaster on this
coast.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
BRAWNY INTERNATIONALS
FOR MORE PROFITABLE OPERATIONS
Work and pleasure
in town and country!
This International 12 cwt. Utility has
modern all-round high styling and
roomy comfort—yet it’s built for rugged
durability, efficiency and down to
earth economy ... everything you want
in a light-duty truck, and more
besides! And you’ll enjoy the new ease
of handling you must experience to
believe. Drive the International for
pleasure use it for work on smooth
city roads or rough country tracks
you’ll find this brawny work-horse is “all
truck” from the ground up.
... FAST, Big-Loading Home Delivery!
Choose this rugged International 15
cwt. Panel Van for delivery work in city
or country. Long 115" wheel-base,
gives heavier loading capacity. Check
the 91" x 63" x 56" loading space too!
.—gives more “on miles” every day—
less empty return-trips to shop or
warehouse. Small 20M feet turning
radius! Add to this, the low
first cost, low fuel cost and
long-life performance you find
the facts set International ahead
of every other truck . . .
Ask your local I.H. Dealer today.
AR-110 Utility, 115" W.B.
12 cwt. capacity.
AR-112 Panel Van 115" W.B.
15 cwt. capacity.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCK FEATURES INCLUDE . . .
700 max. H.P. engine for heavy loads. 3-speed
transmission for more usable power. Proven
duo-servo brakes for positjye safety. Comfo-
vision cab—wide angle vision. Australian made
—ensures full supply of parts.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. WORKS: DANDENONG b GEELONG.
IFMT7IS 36
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following
numbers of “Historical Studies,” a
biannual magazine published by
Melbourne University Press: 1,2, 3,
7,8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20.
—6276.
To buy copies of Bentley’s Machine
Shop Companion (any editions from
1899) and 7 Sailed with Chinese
Pirates, by A. E. Lillius. —6277.
To buy copies of Michelin’s
Illustrated Guute to the Battlefields —
1914-18 and History of the
Great War. —6278.
Information Sought
Some information on Gustave A.
Kerker, who wrote “The Belle of
New York” ?
Born in Westphalia, Germany, on
Feb. 28, 1857, he was taken in 1867
to the U.S., where he'settled for the
rest of his life. Of musical parents,
he was given early encouragement
and training in music. At seven he
had mastered the cello, and at 22
had composed his first operetta,
“Cadets.” He conducted the
orchestra at the New York Casino
and at other theatres. His first
Broadway production was “The
Pearl of Pekin,” in 1888. Besides
“The Belle of New York” (which, in
1921, was revived under the title of
“The Whirl of New York”), he also
wrote the operettas “Lady Slavey,”
“The Telephone Girl,” “’Hie Whirl
of the Town,” “The Billionaire,”
“Winsome Winnie,” “Two Little
Brides,” “The Tourists,” “The Social
Whirl” and “The American Beauty.”
He also had two German operettas
produced in Berlin and Vienna,
“Schneeglockchen” (Snowdrop) and
“Die Oberen Zehntausend” (The
Upper Ten Thousand). Some of his
best-known songs are “They Call
Me the Belle of New York,” “In
Gay New York,” “Baby, Baby,” “La
Belle Parisienne,” “It’s Nice to Have
a Sweetheart,” “Golly, Charlie,”
“Bon Jour, Monsieur,” “It’s Forty
Miles from Schenectady to Troy”
and “Loud Let the Bugles Sound.”
He died in New York on June 29,
1923.
* * * *
Information on the train-accident
at Peats Ferry ( N.S.W .) towards the
end of last century?
The accident occurred on Queen’s
Birthday, June 21, 1887. Excursion-
trains were being run to Brooklyn,
on the Hawkesbury River, for sight-
seers wishing to view the Hawkesbury
Bridge while it was being built. One
excursion-train got out of control on
the downgrade into Brooklyn, and
appeared likely to crash into a stand-
ing passenger-train full of sightseers;
but a pointman diverted it to a
line on which there was a
construction - train. Casualty - lists
were undoubtedly much lighter, but,
even so, five passengers and the
enginedriver were killed and 73
persons injured. It is known as the
Peats Ferry accident.
* * * *
Is it true that the mystery-writer
Ellery Queen is more than one
person ?
Yes. “Ellery Queen” is two
cousins, Frederic Dannay, a former
art-director, and Manfred B. Lee, a
press-agent, who began their
collaboration in 1928. In that year
they won a magazine-story competi-
tion with a story which appeared in
book'-form as The Roman Hat
Mystery —the first Ellery Queen.
There have since been published
some 30-odd Ellery Queens, and the
partners have also written mysteries
under the second pseudonym of
Barnaby Ross. They also produce
“Ellery Queen’s Mystery Magazine.”
* * * *
What was the Mayerling mystery?
Early in the morning of Jan. 30,
1889, at a shooting-lodge near the tiny
Austrian, village of Mayerling, were
found the bodies of the Archduke
Rudolf Habsburg-Lothringen, Crown
Prince of Austria, and the 18-year-old
Baroness Marie Vetsera, each with a
bullet in the head. On a small table
beside the bed on which both bodies
lay was the revolver. The Austrian
Court at first issued a statement that
Rudolf had died of heart-failure,
but, the Court doctors refusing to
certify to that effect, the truth of the
shooting leaked out; the Court then
stated that both the Crown Prince
and the Baroness had committed
suicide, and that Rudolf had been
insane. (Rudolf had quit Vienna a
couple of days earlier after a bitter
quarrel with his father, the Emperor
Franz Josef.) The true facts have
never been established. It has, how-
ever, been proved, from her posture,
from the position of the bullet-wound
in the left side of her head and from
the fact that she was right-handed,
that Marie Vetsera must have been
murdered; and Rudolf must also
have been, as it could be shown that
he died instantly, yet the revolver was
not in his hand when the bodies were
discovered. It is thought most prob-
able that a political enemy or an
outraged relative of the Baroness
was responsible.
* * * *
What are the advantages of a
“holding company” ?
When a group of companies
decides that economies can be
achieved by combining together, or
that greater efficiency can be obtained
by pooling patents, sharing the ser-
vices of experts, etc., they have
several courses open—to sink their
separate identities and amalgamate,
to form a cartel, or to arrange them-
selves as subsidiaries to one of their
number as a holding company.
Amalgamations are often difficult and
expensive to arrange, and a cartel is
usually short-lived. But the holding
company is a looser form than an
amalgamation (an advantage), can
achieve economies hardly open to a
cartel, and is on a more permanent
and unified basis than the cartel.
Further, it is simple and relatively
cheap to arrange, needing nothing
beyond a transfer of shares. The
holding company has proved the best
device for centralising the control of
two or more companies without
destroying their separate legal identi-
ties or losing “goodwill”, attached to
their names. (The term “holding
company” was at first used to
describe a company formed to acquire
a controlling interest by. buying a
majority of the shares, in two or
more operating concerns; it is now
also used for companies as earlier
described, in which the holding
company itself is also an operating
company.)
Brief Answers
C.G.: (1) Write to the Secretary,
Agricultural Societies’ Council of
N.S.W., 195 Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney. (2) The address of the Show-
men’s Guild of Australasia is City
Tattersall’s Chambers, 198-200 Pitt-
street, Sydney. The secretary advises
that the books have been closed to
new members for the past two years,
but it is probable that a limited
number will be admitted in 1957..
1.D.: Try any leading bookseller; if
still unsuccessful, write again. Lord
Jim, for one, is readily obtainable.
M.H.C.: “To husband out
life’s taper at the close, And keep
the flames from wasting by repose,”
is from Goldsmith’s Deserted Village
G.A.C.: No information avail-
able on that particular Rev. George
Grubb J.E.: Mervyn Rose repre-
sented Australia as a singles-player
in the 1951 Davis Cup challenge-
round in Sydney, losing both his
games. Seixas beat him 6-3, 6-4,
9-7, and Schroeder 6-4, 13-11, 7-5.
However, Sedgman won both his
singles, and Sedgman and McGregor
defeated Schroeder and Trabert in the
doubles, for Australia to hold the
Cup H.J.N.: The scenic-railway
at Katoomba (N.S.W.) is 1300 ft.
long on a downgrade varying from
15deg. to 50deg. to the perpendicular.
It was first opened in 1882 for coal-
haulage, and opened as a scenic-
railway in 1933... .K.L.: No in-
formation on “nemingah.” It
should be remembered that repre-
sentations of the aboriginal language
have always been very sketchy.
Much of the language was pieced-
together by people with little linguistic
training officers of Government
departments (such as police, surveyors
and registrars), missionaries and
others interested in the natives. Then
there was the difficulty of the various
tribal translations —one word having
various meanings in the different
tribal tongues —together with lack of
understanding of aboriginal culture,
the sacred, legal and social aspects of
their life.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.W.: The disappearance of
Adaminaby called for something
better than that... .L.S.: Try it else-
where. .. .W.D.McC.: We can always
spare five lines for good old Kiama
“on the South Coast of N. S.
Wales”:
I have been to Kiama 1
Aboriginals gave it the name
As a result of good fishing,
Good hunting —here’s wishing:
“ ’Twill always remain the same.’
E.J.A.: Also for Mosman Bay
(Sydney Harbor): —
Such a scene of peace and beauty,
I feel it to praise a duty.
And would dare to hope
That neither strife nor wickedness
Would ever mar its peaceful loveliness.
B.W.H.: “For ever from our
doors departing” go reckless
rhymers, young and 01d... .W.H.E.:
Only space for the opening stanza:
Politicians, who will raise our tax,
Should be tied in very strong sacks,
With bricks and heavy lumps of mortar
To make them sink in the water.
No more they’ll waste our cash:
Plonk ! Plonk ! ! Hear them splash !1 !
.. V.M.H.: We have more ghost-
gums on hand than we know what to
do with IJ.W.: See previous
answer A.M.A.: Too long and
too du11.... D.H.: A jumble of
commonplace and incomprehensibil-
ity W.C.: That dog-fight’s over;
try something else... .C.8.L.: You
are capable of writing a tremendous
lot about nothing F.F.: There
ought to be something coming to
you when you “cross into the abyss
of Eternity” for verse like that
S.R.G.: You can rhyme “subtle”
with “coal-scuttle” if you like, but
we decline to have it with “wattle.”
W.S.: The cockatoo is too shock-
ing for a respectable family-paper.
A.N.: Dead, heavy verse that
falls with a wallop at the end of each
line L.M.: Don’t know what it
is all about, beyond the fact that it
is night and the moon is shining
W.T.: We’re not particularly
interested in being told the general
features of a storm in bad verse
J.McG.: A small idea in monstrous
verse C.N.H.: Rhymed bragga-
docio is never attractive; and yours
is even more pitiful than most
L.E.McA.: The moon rises; the city
sleeps; the dawn breaks. But you
are not one who can make poetry
of such events... .V.S.: One of the
prime essentials of publishable verse
is that it should be about something.
H.P.: What makes you think
that we are seeking such a jig-jog of
commonplaces? T.J.F.: You ask
why Australians don’t write ab9ut
Australia. And in reply we inquire,
don’t you read or have you been
living in Iceland for the past 50
years? R.H.: Its chief faults are
lack of meaning, bad rhymes, horrible
metre and grammar, and faulty
punctuation... .E.M.: A blackfellow
biting a cattle-dog’s tail for a nip of
rum is not worth six foolscap pages.
L.W.: The “Alarm Clock” may
ring elsewhere... .H.C.: Boils down
to a statement that night follows day.


A Modem Self-contained Sanitary
System for All Unsewered Areas
1
I
m
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS . . ~NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTALL IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissdfvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.:
S.A.:
Hygeia Dissolwenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissoivenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William St., Adelaide.
W.A.:
TAS.:
Hygeia Dissofe'enator Co. (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissofe'enator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
bourne; or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart;
Launceston, 'Sasmania.
Mel-
also
DARWIN: C. T. See Koe, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea: Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
T AST year The Bulletin pub-
lished an article on Russian-
comfrey, a crop which has been
grown comparatively recently in
England and in parts of Africa.
On my farm it has proved such
a success that I think it will be
widely grown elsewhere in Aus-
tralia.
Russian-comfrey is a long-
lived perennial, exceptionally
deep-rooting, producing on the
same land for up to 40 years
without deterioration. Its big
leaves, a little on the rough side,
have immense value for pigs and
poultry, and are also relished by
cattle, horses and goats. The
Game and Fisheries Department
of Uganda use them to feed fish
—the remarkable ngege, or
telapia, has been found to thrive
on comfrey, which has the
highest protein-content of any
plant in the world. A sample last
year was found to contain 33.4
per cent, protein, which is higher
than soya-bean.
It grows very quickly—faster
than any other plant in the
world’s temperate zones —and it
is a pleasure to see pigs tear into
it. I estimate it could cut the
cost of rearing pigs by 50 per
cent., as they can eat large
quantities of it, the low carbo-
hydrates-content produces lean
bacon, and it doesn’t cause
scours. The reason for this is
that it contains allantoin, a valu-
able healing'-element. If pigs)
are let loose in a crop they will
first eat the leaves, then root,
destroying the plants.
Mrs. P. B. Greer, of the Kerry
dairyfarms, England, reports that
her pigs take to comfrey as early
as three weeks of age.
My cows left highly-palatable
pasture to eat my last comfrey
cut, cleaning-up every bit of it,
although, they hadn’t seen the
stuff before. Surprising how
little work with scythe and fork
will fill a cart to take out to a
paddock.
When summer comes, comfrey,
fed by its great roots, is growing
at top speed. And at this time,
of course, there is a steep drop
in the protein-content of pas-
tures. Comfrey, then, could be
very valuable at this time of the
year on Australian dairyfarms:
plenty of cheap, homegrown
protein.
Mf. Stephenson, of the famous
Little Weighton racehorse-stud
in England, grows comfrey and
feeds it to his horses. I quote
from his report: “Mares and
foals in the spring receive
approximately 141 b. a day, the
quantity experience shows
removes any risk of scouring.
Contrary to the
opinion o£ many
graziers weather con-
ditions need not be
taken into considera-
tion when marking
lambs. If Elastrator
Rubber Rings are
used the work can be
carried out with equal
safety whether the
day is hot with blow-
flies prevalent, or is
cold and wet.
The value of the animals con-
cerned averages £lOO,OOO per
season, apart from the stallions,
which are given about the same
ration at this time of the year.
In the spring, no question of
money-saving arises; the need
is to give expensive horses the
best and insure against trouble.
Both the allantoin and the
minerals' are of real value at this
stage.”
Poultry share with pigs the
advantages of the low ratio of
fibre, but there is a lack of
recorded experiment concerning
poultry fed. on comfrey. How-
ever, the leaves are fed to
poultry, like any other green-
feed, with the advantage that
they can be* fed in bulk from a
comparatively small growing-
area, and over a long season.
It has the* reputation, too, of
helping young turkeys over that
difficult early period when
digestive trouble kills a good
many. In the U.K. it is fed to
goats with good results. There
is no recent information about
comfrey as feed for sheep,
although, I understand (from
earlier when they are
used to it they will eat it readily
enough.
My own comfrey-plot, here on
the Mornington Peninsula (Vic.),
still under quarantine, is the
only comfrey so far growing in
Australia. Although my plants
are only in their first year, I
have already harvested nearly 40
tons per acre in three cuts, with
something around another 20
tons ready for cutting. This is
considerably above the usual
yield for a year with a first-year
growth overseas, and the year
isn’t finished yet.
Lawrence D. Hills, the Eng-
lish authority on comfrey, pre-
dicts that this Australian experi-
mental plot will yield at the rate
of 100 tons an acre in its second
year. The normal English yield
is 20 to 30 tons the first year,
40 to 60 tons the second year,
60 to 80 tons the third year, with
120 tons an acre the target after
that. The dramatic increase here
(at least, to date) is probably due
to more sunlight; photosynthesis
of the plant’s great, wide leaves
must be very important.
It’s a little early yet to make
general predictions, of course,
but I’m inclined to think the crop
has immense possibilities here,
particularly in the cooler, high-
rainfall parts of the temperate-
zone, where lucerne is an un-
certain crop. Lucerne is a warm-
soil plant. Comfrey is tolerant of
a range of temperatures within
the temperate-bracket, and seems
to be tolerant of many soil-
types : doing best, apparently, on
soils with a subsoil of basaltic
origin, and on heavy well-drained
clays.
You need a fair bit of lime
in the soil to grow good comfrey,
and some shelter, as the leaves,
unlike grass, are not designed to
bend to the wind. The sort of
shelter you provide for an
orchard is ideal.
The plant thrives on cutting,
usually reaching the cutting-
stage every four weeks during
the growing-stage although,
under Australian conditions, I
consider it ready for cutting in
three weeks.
In Germany, where it is a
favorite smallholder’s crop, the
custom is to leave it down for
seven years, then turn pigs ki on
it. The roots go too deep fior it
to be destroyed by cultivation.
But they don’t spread like
bracken—they go straight down,
as far as 9ft. Propagation is by
root-division, as the plant
doesn’t seed.
Rules for growing—keep it
cut, kefep it fed, keep it clean —
apply here in Australia as much
as elsewhere. There is no diffi-
culty in destroying comfrey
should the need arise. The New
Zealand Department of Agri-
culture has listed four sprays
which will do the job. But no
man who grows the crop well
will want to destroy it.
With 6.5 per cent, of potash
in its leaves, over 2 per cent, of
lime, and lesser percentages of
phosphate and minor elements,
comfrey makes an ideal mulch
for potash-loving fruit-trees, and
fine material for the compost-
heap.
No one yet knows what the
“and the years just rolled by...."
period of dormancy is in Aus-
tralia, but my experience strongly
suggests a longer growing-season
and a shorter period of dor-
mancy than in England, keeping
pace with the seasons. Sunlight,
rather than moisture, seems to
be the vital factor.
A grower in Kenya produced
124 j tons per acre in the 1955
growing-season. This quantity of
comfrey fetched out of the deep
subsoil 7cwt. of lime, 7cwt. of
phosphorus, and 14cwt. of
potash. As a good proportion of
these minerals are returned to the
topsoil in the dung, it can be seen
that this grower is running a real
fertiliser-mine.
William F. Savage.
Super, with Wafer
“Sundowner” :< If you want to
apply super, during hot weather
and avoid burning the pasture,
put it on with irrigation-water.
Solution can be prepared by add-
ing half-a-bag superphosphate to
20gals. water in a cut-down
drum. It can then be siphoned
into the foot-valve of the spray-
irrigation plant with a jin.
rubber-hose.
Set spray-beads to their maxi-
mum rate of rotation, so they
will complete as many circles as
possible and ensure even dis-
tribution of the fertiliser.
A jin. plastic-tube leading
from the pump petcock will add
further water to the drum as
pumping proceeds. Spray the
area for some time after all the
phosphate has been applied, to
make sure it is washed-off the
pasture-foliage.
Vitamin-A for Sheep
“E.G.M.”: At a recent con-
ference at Armidale (N.S.W.)
Professor McClymont, discussing
vitamin-A deficiency of sheep,
said a great number of sheep
were treated with vitamin-A
supplements unnecessarily, most
sheepmen not realising how
severe drought-conditions must
be, or how prolonged, before
symptoms of vitamin-A defi-
ciency became evident.
Although such deficiency
caused ewes to give birth to dead
or weak lambs, this would not
happen in Australia under
natural conditions, as droughts
were not sufficiently prolonged.
Under experimental condi-
tions, ewes fed on a ration
deficient in vitamin-A, such as
wheaten-hay and wheat, were
lambed a second time before
vitamin-A deficiency became
apparent.
Professor McClymont said
dosing ewes prior to lambing was
not recommended; but he
advised that lambs born in a
drought should be dosed, because
if no green-feed is available
deaths will occur by the time
they are four months old.
Mf. B. L. Campbell, of the
McMaster Laboratory, also dis-
cussing the subject, advised dos-
ing both lambs and weaners in
dr ought-time, but agreed that
ewes probably never became
vitamin-A deficient under natural
. . ~
conditions, as they were able to
store vitamin-A for long periods.
Arsenic
“Farmer Bill”: Don’t dip
sheep in arsenic on hot, sultry
days or in humid, wet weather.
In temperatures of the latter sort,
the wool dries slowly and the
poison may be absorbed into the
skin. When this causes the crack-
ing or peeling of the skin, death
may follow. The same effects
may come from the jetting of
arsenical solutions on to a large
strike. In other cases the animal
goes lame.
The arsenical content of pre-
pared drenches not infrequently
crystallises and forms a white
sediment in the bottom of the
bottle. If the bottle is not
thoroughly shaken to redissolve
the sediment, some unfortunate
animal is doomed to get an over-
dose. When the bottle is out
of use for any time, so that the
sediment hardens into a mass
that shaking will not redissolve,
the preparation should be
regarded as dangerous and
tossed-out.
Spray-irrigation
“Hop Scrub”: many
forms of spray-irragation avail-
able to Australian farmers can
be classified briefly:
1. Portable outfits.
2. Semi-portable.
In both types the spray-lines
may carry:
1. Rotating sprinkler-heads;
2. Fixed sprinkler-heads.
Piping may be of galvanised-
iron 22-24 gauge (mains 4-6 in.
and spray-lines 3-4 in.) or of
aluminium, which is lighter to
handle and has no seams. Lay-
out is an individual problem.
Flexibility in angling the lines
is important.
Rotating sprinklers may vary
from slowly-revolving small units
that can be run at pressures as
low as 101 b. per square-inch to
larger ones covering circles up to
375 ft. and requiring pressures of
from 60-lOOlb.
In general, the slower a
sprinkler operates the larger the
area it will cover. This means
economy in pipe-spacing, less
wear on sprinklers, and applica-
tion of less water per hour. In
the heavier soils the slower appli-
cation makes for better penetra-
tion ; in rapid flows much loss
occurs as run-off.
Fixed heads are largely used,
and run at pressures from 10-
251 b. and li-sgal. per nozzle per
minute. Areas covered range
from 15-40 ft., and quantity from
0.7-3 in. per hour.
Spacing of nozzles in both
systems varies with the ideas of
the manufacturers, and few
detailed research-results are
available. Portable and semi-
portable outfits call for consider-
able labor in moving, and the
use of tractors to pull whole
spray-lines 10-15 chains in length
isn’t satisfactory—pipes mounted
on wheels and propelled by a
low-horsepower engine are a


LAND
COLUMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
Mm
mmmM
■
M 1
m
J
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very, suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
m
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
5*
m
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Fill in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
r
NAME
ADDRESS
5898
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
world -
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
rotary hoe
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8661.
S.-AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’IiAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2496. \
Sole Australian Agents: x
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., !Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ROSE
TILLE
PRESSURF
Reqd,
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON |i PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
better proposition, particularly
on lucerne and pastures.
Stationary systems have been
used successfully to overcome
these difficulties. They are rotat-
ing sprinklers mounted on high
risers connected to permanent
underground-mains and laterals
of galvanised-iron or plastic. Six
to eight sprinklers cover an acre,
and distribution, except in very
high winds, is reasonably good.
They can, and do, duplicate a
given performance—labor-costs
are less and application-rates
vary from .25-.soin. per hour.
Distribution can be checked by
using, say, 100 jamtins as rain-
gauges per acre. The system can
be applied to orchards as well as
to vegetable-crops and pastures.
In some Californian districts,
travelling pumping-machines lift-
ing water from central ditches
covering strips 250-300 ft. at 60-
801 b. pressure are in regular use.
I have seen none in Australia
so far.
For smaller vegetable-areas
the Skinner and Kook systems,
spraying parallel strips under 25-
401 b. pressure and delivering
about 0.15-o.3ogals. per minute
(approximately Bgals. per hour
per nozzle) are recommended. '
Perforated pipes under pres-
sures of from 4-201 b. are a good
home-garden method.
The decision as to which type
to select depends on topography,
soil subsurface conditions,
climate, and crop to be grown.
Consider carefully:
1. Type of sprinkler and size.
2. Cost of installation, main-
tenance and operation.
3. If the slopes are suitable for
flood-irrigation by borders, etc.,
is the increased cost justified?
General advantages of sprays
include use of smaller heads of
water. Irregular-surfaced land
can be watered. Amount applied
is uniform and can be adjusted to
the water-needs of the soil.
Disadvantages are high initial
costs, losses by evaporation, and
depreciation of pipelines.
California, the original home
of flood-irrigation, shows a con-
siderable swing-over to spray-
systems in all branches of agri-
culture and horticulture.
Advice can be had from local
Departments of Agriculture and
Irrigation Commissions, and
most types of units can be seen
working in all States.
Three-day Sickness
“Mango”: Quite a number of
us here on the N.S.W. North
Coast think this disease has been •
taken a bit too lightly. The
name, perhaps, has something to
do with it. But during recent
months three-day sickness has
caused tremendous losses in
milk- and butter-production,
cows that were giving 2 gals, a
day dropping down to half-a-
pint or less. It causes occasional
deaths, and the effect on cows
about to calve is severe.
Onset of the complaint is
sudden. The cow or bull (both
are subject to attacks) will just
stand listless, limping when
moved: sometimes a front-leg is
affected, sometimes a hind-leg.
Some animals’ eyes are subject
to a nervous movement; or the
affected animal may lie down.
Badly-hit herds have had 50 per
cent, and more of cases.
The only treatment the
authorities are able to offer is the
advice not to move the stock,
but farmers have tried all sorts
of home-remedies —aspirin and
the like —in order to ease the
suffering of the poor beasts. We
would like C.5.1.R.0. or some
such body to have a shot at the
problem.
Concreting
“E. 2”: Modern trend is to put
all timber-housing and -buildings
on concrete foundations. Con-
crete floors, wherever practicable,
are preferred to timber, and con-
crete is essential for cowyards
and piggeries. Drainage, septic-
tank systems, paths, all call for
concrete. It is enduring, and it
tricks the white-ants.
Good materials are the first
consideration. In general prac-
tice a balanced mix of fin.
crushed-rock screenings, sand
and cement, in proportions 4,2,
1, is used. These should be free
of clay and foreign substances,
the sand sharp and fine, the
cement fresh and of good quality.
In many cases river- or creek-
gravels will be used. Careful
selection here is necessary. It
pays to sieve an average sample
to find the proportions of sand
and stone; it’s then a simple
matter to bring-up the correct
balance.
Screening through netting—an
old wire-mattress will do the
job—may be necessary to get out
oversize-stones. Stand the frame
up iat about 60 degrees and toss
the gravel against it, so that the
large stones roll down in front.
It’s bad practice to use large
rocks or oversize aggregate, as
air-pockets are bound to form;
as well, there will be irregularities
in expansion and contraction,
and cracks will soon show-up.
The good “brew” is im-
portant. If there is too little
sand, “hungry” concrete results.
The cement leaches-out with the
“juice” when handling ; it is diffi-
cult to screed-off and surface
without liberal top-dressing ; and
it will certainly have honeycomb-
pockets and lack of density. Such
concrete will not wear well.
“Fatty” concrete, caused by
an overdose of sand, requires
extra cement. Owingj to its
nature, extra water will also be
needed to mix thoroughly. It’s
easy to pour and screed-off, but
the fun starts when trying to
finish it: takes a long while to
firm, shrinks a good deal when
drying, and bumps and hollows
show its instability in working.
Further, it doesn’t harden to the
same degree as first-class con-
crete.
A mixer power-driven for
preference —is imperative where
more than a couple of bags of
cement are to be used. Don't
drive any faster than is necessary
to keep the stuff mixing. After a
couple of mixes, it should be
possible to gauge the exact
amount of water required by
bin-measure and that is just
sufficient to allow the concrete
to mix in a workable mass with-
out sticking to the mixer.
Pouring a bag of concrete
should be done in the quickest
possible time, as this will result
in greater density and closer
union of each batch. Therefore
it pays to have a little organisa-
tion beforehand, ample material
close to hand, and the job set-
out in sections which can be con-
veniently handled.
Too much emphasis can’t be
placed on the selection of
materials, as on these the success
of the job depends.
Beef on Grass-silage
“Billjim”: Tests being con-
ducted in various Australian
southern States under the aegis
of the C.5.1.R.0. have demon-
strated that cattle may be fat-
tened on good-quality silage
without additional roughage or
concentrates.
4 ln Tasmanian stall-feeding
trials it was shown that steers fed
exclusively on grass-silage not
only gained at the excellent rate
of 2.21 b. per day but did so at
a considerably lower cost than
steers on other rations.
The work is a further demon-
stration of the fact that beef-
cattle fail to gain, and sometimes
lose, weight over long periods of
the year. It has also indicated
that these checks in production,
which impose a heavy cost on the
industry, can be overcome by
supplementary feeding, and, in
certain cases, by complete hand-
feeding.
The Speck experiments cost
only 12.8 d. per day to top-off
Devon-Shorthorn-cross steers on
grass-silage. The daily cost on
a hay-oat-meatmeal ration was
33.3 d. Moreover, the cattle made
greater daily liveweight-increases
on the exclusive silage-diet—
-2.21b. per head, as against 1.71 b.
on the hay-concentrate ration.
Profit-margin on this new feed-
basis will depend on the price of
beef. For instance, in the Speck
topping-off trials, with beef at
£ll per 1001 b., net profit for the
silage-fed group was 26.8 d. per
day per head, whereas a loss of
1. Id. per day per head was
suffered on the steers fed the hay
mixture.
The silage was made from
a white-clover-perennial-ryegrass
pasture at an estimated cost of
30s. per ton. It was of high
quality and, when opened-up,
assayed 18 per cent, of crude
protein on a dry-matter basis.
Farm Hints
“Quo Vadis”: Learn to read
your spark-plugs. After 30-
minutes running, a plug which
retains a sooty coating on the
insulator is too cold for that
engine. The remedy is a hotter
plug—i.e., one with a longer
heat-path (insulator). If the
insulator runs light-grey or
nearly white the plug is too hot
and may cause pre-ignition ; re-
place with a cooler plug. The
correct insulator-color for best
performance is light- to medium-
brown. Keep plug-seat and
-gasket scrupulously clean —the
plug’s internal heat is trans-
mitted here to the cylinder-head
and water-jacket.
“Proof”: To protect small
stacks of hay from weather,
.cornsacks can be waterproofed
by painting the stretched-out
bagging with two parts of boiled
linseed-oil and one part of raw
linseed-oil, well mixed together.
The oil should be well worked
into the bagging, which should
be hung in an airy place until
dry ; if necessary another light
coat should be given.
“Sundowner”: Pigs from
weaner-size onwards can eat {-lb.
to {lb. of lucerne-meal a day.
But when there’s good lucerne,
clover or clover - dominant
meadow-hay available it’s
cheaper to use this than buy the
meal.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/3/’56)
There seems little doubt that further heavy rains and
consequent flooding will occur this month, particularly in
N.S.W. and Queensland.
In April, further heavy rains are likely on the central
and north coasts of Queensland, and these rains should
extend through the Carpentaria and central-west areas,
with consequent flooding. Light to moderate rain should
occur in the balance of the State.
Moderate rains should occur on the coast and portion
of the tablelands of N.S.W. during April, but elsewhere in
the State rainfall should be light and patchy. Further
heavy rains are likely during June.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in the southern
half of Victoria during April, but elsewhere light, with
general rains commencing in May.
South Australia should receive light to moderate
patchy rains during April, although the season should
commence with general rains in May.
In Western Australia during April heavy rains should
be received in the West Kimberleys, Fortescue and De Grey
division. Good rains are likely in the south-east andl lower
south coast, but elsewhere light, with the season in the
south-west commencing in May.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
School Leaving-age
An obvious solution to the teacher-
and classroom-shortage in N.S.W. is to
lower the leaving-age to 14. At present
there are thousands of boys and girls in
our schools who, because of inferior
intelligence and psychological complexes,
have reached the peak of their educational
attainments. A few years ago, before
Mr. Clive Evatt became N.S.W. Minister
of Education, they would have left school
as soon as they turned 14 ; now, because
of Mr. Evatt’s raising of the leaving-age
to 15, they have to endure a further
year at school.
True, the Education Department
endeavors to make the additional year
attractive for then?. Usually they are
placed in special non-examination classes,
where they do simplified courses in
English, mathematics, science, social-
studies and crafts. If the teacher is a
good one and the school well equipped,
these subjects are taught in a novel and
attractive way. Too often, however, the
teacher is untrained for this kind of work
and the special equipment needed is lack-
ing. Even where teachers and equipment
are all they should be it is doubtful
whether these retarded pupils derive
much benefit from all the effort made on
their behalf.
It is a wrong and dangerous concept
that educational experience is limited to
what is taught in school. Experience
suggests .that, for the majority, the most
fruitful educational period is those first
few years in employment.
For the backward pupil who can never
hope to obtain the Intermediate Certi-
fiqate it would be far better to set him
free at 14 to work in a factory, office or
shop. The monetary reward for work
done, the position of responsibility he has
in* an organisation and the freer social
intercourse the place of work offers are
far better incentives to learning in the
broad sense than any the school can offer
him.
Also, through leaving school a year
earlier, he would be quicker to gain self-
respect and confidence, two of the
qualities the overcrowded school and the
overworked teacher find it so difficult to
give him. — Peekay (N.S.W.).
Fact and Fiction
If “Quillite” spends “much time and'
labor on a story and is offered £3 12s. 6d.
for all rights whatsoever” (B. 22/2/’56)
it is time he threw away his plot-book and
took to factual writing. That is what
“A pony and a schooner , Please!”
, . , , ,
commands me money and the markets in
this country today.
I hear constantly of fiction-writers be-
wailing the lack of markets and poor
rates of payment for their wares. I have
no such complaints—there are more
markets than I can supply with factual
articles, and payments are a fair return
for time and labor.
I wouldn’t advise any aspiring writer to
try to earn his living by his pen alone,
but factual writing can be a pleasant and
profitable hobby. I started with fiction
and had little success, but since changing
to factual I’ve never looked back. J. M.
(Q-).
Red China and U.N.
Dr. Evatt wants Communist China
admitted to the United Nations, but can
he produce a single clause or
article in the Charter that would
allow this?
The Doc. claims that the present
regime is the Government and
represents the people of China.
They do not—they were put in
power by the treachery of the
Russians, and not by the Chinese
people.
The Russians gave the Commun-
ists tremendous military aid by
handing over to them the Japanese
stores. This completely changed
the situation. American General
Chennault, on the spot, said:
“The poorly-armed Chinese Com-
munists who marched north the
year before now swarmed south
armed with Japanese rifles,
machine-guns, mortars, tanks
and artillery, with sufficient
material to supply a million men
for ten-years’ fighting.”
That finished it, particularly as
General Marshall put a ban on
the supply of all military materials
and equipment to the Nationalist
forces.
With this colossal military aid
from the Russians the Commun-
ists seized power without any
election of the Chinese people.
The Russians have kept them in
power ever since. There has been
strong resistance by the people
in all parts of China. Only last
year Shih Liang, Minister
of Justice in Red China, reported
that between January and May,
1955, the “peoples’ courts” had dealt with
no fewer than 364,604 cases of counter-
revolutionaries.
To admit Red China to the United
Nations would mean abandoning the
moral principles of civilised countries
throughout the world.
It would also bring consternation and
despair to every country in Asia, or else-
where, that is struggling for freedom and
democracy, and it would be the death-
knell of the United Nations as a moral
force in the world. —Samzac (N.S.W.).
Truth in Advertising
Is there any more truth in advertising
today than there was in the bad old days
of the 18th century?
Take the advertisements dealing with
motion-pictures. Each week I am offered
films that are “the most controversial
drama filmed in years,” “the funniest
comedy of the year,”
“the story of a pas-
sion never before
told on the screen,”
or “So - and - So’s
greatest and most
colorful musical-
comedy.”
In the property-
sales columns, ram-
shackles I wouldn’t
look at twice
suddenly assume a
miraculous respecta-
bility and charm,
and a closeness to
shops, schools and
transport that be-
comes almost mono-
tonous.
There are no
longer any “bombs”
on the road —at least
according to the car-
sales columns. I will
look sartorially ele-
gant in any of a
dozen cheaply-priced
suits. And with
Bloggs’s lawnmowers I can now mow
with pleasure at leisure.
Any plea for truth in advertising is
bound to grow both hoary and hoarse.
In any case, at this stage, would anyone
believe it if we got it?—G. M. (Tas.).
Women Farmers
“Ex-R.S.M.” claims (B. 12/2/’56) that
no Australian agricultural colleges will
have women students. When I went to
Dookie College (Vic.) there were four
girls enrolled —three Melbourne Univer-
sity students studying for their B.Sc! Ag.,
and one studying for her .diploma as a
normal college student.
All four took part in every possible
farm-activity allotted to men students.
Two had sound land-backgrounds and
showed themselves no novices in under-
taking practical jobs as well as in passing
examinations.
Although their year’s stay at the college
caused no major disruptions to either the
syllabus or the wheat-hartest, it was
shown that the theory that they would
“unsettle the men” was not entirely
groundless.
Men can have girl-friends in cities and
towns, but at residential colleges there is
no such outlet. The presence of a few
girls in such circumstances could become
something more thqn “unsettling.” That
nothing of the sort occurred ,at Dookie
is a tribute to the calibre of the girls
taking the course. .
Theoretically, there’s no reason why
girls shouldn’t be allowed the same use
of State agricultural teaching-facilities as
youths. In practice many snags may be
met. And all of them will stem from the
fact that you need a special type of girl
to stand up to the very unbalanced ratio
of males to females in which she will
have to live, work and play.— Bruce
Muirden (Q.). •
Prince’s Wharf
There never was a Princess wharf in
Hobart (B. 15/2/’56). About 1828-30 a
wharf was built and known as the New
Wharf to distinguish it from the only
other wharf then existing. This was
enlarged and added to through the years,
but was always known as the New
Wharf until January 24, 1902, when
the Hobart Marine Board changed the
name to Prince’s Wharf in honor of
the visit of the Duke of York in July,
1901. The Duke and Duchess landed
from the Gothic, which berthed right at
the wharf. — Castry (Tas.).
Commonwealth Economics
The announcement by the Common-
wealth Public Service Board that there
was an increase of 4898 in the service
during the year ended June 30 last came
almost simultaneously with the news that
Commonwealth Parliamentarians are
almost certain to vote themselves a
salary-increase of £5OO a year.
Both these matters should receive the
attention of the economics committee
appointed by the Government to deter-
mine what steps should be taken to place
Australia’s economy in order.
The steady growth of the public service
is something the Government has failed
to tackle, although some of the younger
and more vigorous back-benchers have
expressed themselves in the manner one
expects from members of a party claim-
ing to support free enterprise and oppose
Socialism.
According to the Commonwealth
Statistician, more than one Australian in
four works for the Commonwealth, a
State Government or a local-government
authority. That is a frightening position
in a young country that needs new indus-
tries and greater primary production.
The picture looks worse when one con-
siders the conditions under which public
servants work.
A Sydney Sunday newspaper lately car-
ried an advertisement inserted by the
Commonwealth Public Service Board for
administrative staff. The ad", stressed the
following working-conditions: a five-day
week of 36} hours, three weeks annual
holidays, accumulative sick-leave for two
weeks on full pay and two weeks on half-
pay each year, four-and-a-half months
long-service leave after 15 years and a
liberal pension on retirement. To these
working-conditions must be added the
sundry public holidays peculiar to
Australia.
It seems strange that a free-enterprise
Government, which quite rightly attacked
Labor’s introduction of the 40-hour-
week, should overtly offer an even shorter
working-week to its colossal staff.
Surely these matters deserve the atten-
tion of the economics committee before
any of the threatened curtailments of
business are allowed to take place.
If not, there is little hope of righting
Australia’s economic ills, because the
greatest single danger to our economy is
the vast unproductive bureaucracy which
the productive section of the community
is being forced to carry.— Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Free Speech
Letters in the press criticising Govern-
ment departments usually do so under a
pen-name. Recently one signed “School
Teacher” criticised certain aspects of our
education-system, and it was stated that
the name of the writer was not published
“for obvious reasons.”
It is alarming to find such frank admis-
sion of fear of reprisals by Government
or departmental officers. Surely a school-
teacher is qualified to express an opinion
on education, and the free discussion of
all matters by well-qualified people is
highly desirable.
I remarked to an officer in another de-
partment on the fact that “Old So-and-
So,” who had a lot of seniority and was
very efficient, only held a junior post. I
was told that “Old So-and-So” had got
himself mixed-up in politics—“ You can’t
expect to get anywhere if you do that.”
What are we coming to? If a Govern-
ment servant must lose his right of free
criticism the time is not far distant when
half the population will be politically in-
articulate. —L.F. (Q.).
Sunday Drinking
“Gelt’s” idea of abolishing the 30-mile
radius and opening city hotels seems a
poor solution (B. 29/2/’56).
All country towns are not as “Gelt”
describes. Ours was, once, but now, with
correct police-supervision, the Sabbath is
strictly observed.
If you opened the city hotels there
would be large numbers of drinkers
travelling to tie city—which would take
you right back where you started in re-
gard to drunken driving.— Picka winner
(N.S.W.).


Britain and Australia
If a large part of Britain’s secondary
industries was transferred to Australia
(B. 15/2/’56) it would probably cause
economic collapse in Britain.
The U.K. is equipped to function as a
highly-industrialised society, supporting a
population of nearly 50 million. If a large
part of this population were to leave the
country, its public and private utilities
would be far too elaborate for the re-
maining inhabitants. These would, how-
ever, still have to bear the cost of those
utilities, as well as looking after the huge
national debt.
In a primitive agricultural society a
fall in population can be rectified, with-
out serious economic dislocation, by
reducing the area cultivated. A similar
course is not open to a highly-industria-
lised society.
In the 19th century, when Britain was
the only major industrial Power, it was
able to send hordes of emigrants to Aus-
tralia, U.S.A., Canada, New Zealand,
South Africa, South America and many
other countries. Today the U.K. is im-
porting labor for its factories and mines.
This (as Arthur Chew notes in his study
of the proper balance between agriculture
and industry in a modem society,
Ploughshares or Swords ) has been neces-
sary because of the depletion of Britain’s
overseas reserves in two world wars.
These reserves were built during
generations when Britain enjoyed finan-
cial and industrial pre-eminence, and
were of prime importance in financing
imports. An industrial country in
Britain’s present situation can only hope
to prosper by exporting enough finished
goods to pay for necessary imports of
foodstuffs and raw materials. Hence,
there must be steady expansion of pro-
ductivity, and for this there must be an
increase, not a decrease, in the country’s
labor-force. — Economist (N.S,'W.).
Olives
I had heard of many lucrative olive-
groves in Italy yielding fine fruit at an
age of over 1000 years (B. 22/2/’56),
but there is one in the Garden of
Gethsemane (Jerusalem) which is said to
be about 2000 years old. On the gnarled
roots of this ancient tree Christ is said
to have rested and meditated before the
Crucifixion. It was a fully-grown tree
then. In Jerusalem some years ago I
sat under the same tree, handing piastres
to an avid guide to hear a volume -of
fabrications that only the credulous
might believe.— Eddas (Q.),
Melbourne’s Parks
Melbourne’s drive-in theatres are
generally situated in outer suburbs, but
with an eye to the vast inner-suburban
picture-going population a company
applied for permission to open one at
Yarra Bend National Park, within three
or four miles of the G.P.O. This park
is liberally sprinkled with playing-fields,
as well as a good public golf-course, chil-
dren’s playgrounds and delightful picnic-
spots.
So it was satisfying to hear from the
Victorian Minister for Lands to the effect
that it would need an Act of Parliament
before any of this tract could be leased.
Vigorous public opinion has probably
removed that possibility.
Melbourne’s parks have been nibbled-
at for years, generally on the pretext of
a national emergency, as witness the ex-
tensive defence-offices at Albert Park and
the monstrosity of Camp Pell, a tempor-
ary housing-settlement (now fortunately
closed) in Royal Park.
Any action to pi'eserve Australia’s
meagre parklands deserves the fullest
approval, whatever the leanings of the
Government of the day.—B. K. G. (Vic.).
Australian Films
America and England developed their
motion-picture industries before there
was any possibility of large-scale pro-
duction in Australia, where the relatively
small population has made it difficult to
recoup even the costs of production of a
feature-film from the local box-office. We
need an overseas market for feature-films,
and, naturally, overseas interests have
not been particularly interested in
developing competitive production in
Australia.
In America and England TV has
drawn largely on the established motion-
picture industry. In Australia, however,
since we have no similar set-up, the posi-
tion may be reversed, with a film-indus-
“Then We reached the stage when We needed a double-decker .”
try for theatre growing from facilities in-
stalled for the production of TV-films.
Already, in Hollywood, the annual pro-
duction of films for TV exceeds 3500,
most of them lasting for half-an-hour ;
the same centre produces about 300 fea-
ure-films for theatrical use. Even allow-
ing that the average feature-film is several
times as long as the average TV-show,
TV-film output in Hollywood is - still
almost three times as much as production
for film-houses.
The introduction of TV to Australia,
with the consequent demand for develop-
ing and printing, should give a new lease
of life to the film-laboratories in Sydney
and Melbourne. Australia has not yet
been able to support the planting of color-
films for theatre-use, and that, coupled
with the steadily increasing use of color-
films in Australian picture-theatres, has
severely cut the demand for black-and-
white prints from these laboratories by
film-distributors in this country.
The demands of TV for black-and-
white films in Australia will, however,
soon reach very' important proportions—
probably millions of feet of film per year
—and this will improve things consider-
ably for Australian film-laboratories. —
W. G. (N.S.W.).
Super- markets
The super-market idea has caught on
in Australia (B. 29/2/’56). Within the
next few weeks a shopping-centre along
American lines will be opened at Malvern
(Vic.).
Built inside a former picture-theatre,
the super-market will contain 23 shops
and nine large stalls; there will be a car-
park for 50 or 60 vehicles near by, and a
creche, with a trained nurse, will be
available near the rear entrance in a gar-
den setting.
Possibly a modest effort by U.S.
standards, but it’s a start, and if success-
ful will certainly lead to other and better
supei-markets.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
Old Stuff
Agricultural publications and good
extension-work by professional agri-
culturists have now, in 1956, acquainted
everybody on the land with the value of
legumes for enriching the soil.
If anyone fancies he is making use of
some new advance in agricultural-science,
however, he should look at what Theo-
phrastus (“The Father of Botany”) wrote
approximately 2200 years ago: “Beans
are not a burdensome crop to the ground ;
they even seem to manure it, because the
plant is of loose growth and rots easily ;
wherefore the people of Macedonia and
Thessaly turn over the ground when it is
in flower.” Theophrastus might not
have done nitrogen-determinations at
different stages of growth, but he hit on
the right time to turn-under the legume
for maximum nitrogen.
Cato would not have known much
about nitrogen-fixing bacteria, but he
knew a thing or two about legumes, for
about 200 b.c. he advised: “Lupines,
field-beans and vetches manure corn-
land. Sow these crops a second and
third time.”
Varro was a fine practical agriculturist.
In 37 b.c. he suggested: “Legumes should
be planted in light soils, not so much for
their own crops as for the good they do
to subsequent crops.”
Agriculturally, Virgil was an advanced
thinker. In 30 b.c. he extolled the value
of crop-rotation, particularly recommend-
ing in series fallow-grain-leguminous
crops. Thus he said: “After the harvest,
let the fallow fields lie at rest in succeed-
ing years. Then, when you have reaped
the legume with, shaking pod, the vetch
and the lupine, sow your wheat.” —
Lupinus (N.S.W.).
Hours of Work
At 3 p.m. on a very hot day during the
recent Perth heat-wave the manager of
an American-controlled company walked
into the office and said, “It’s too hot to
work. You can all go home.”
Next day the staff were asked their
views on the best times to start and finish
work during summer, and on the follow-
ing Monday the hours became 8 a.m. to
4 p.m., with half-an-hour for lunch.
There was even a suggestion that they be
changed again to 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.
It’s rather early to judge the experi-
ment, but most of the women on the
staff are enthusiastic. There is time to
shop in comfort after 4 p.m. and one
can travel to and from work more com-
fortably, whether by public transport ox-
private car. Parking is simplified, too.
Some members of the staff, however, find
it difficult to make the office by 8 a.m.,
and the continuance of the scheme may
depend on them.
Still, the prompt action of the com-
pany to provide better conditions for the
staff during summer illustrates the effec-
tive American approach, and will no
doubt pay dividends in increased
efficiency.— Groper (W.A.).
Decline in Reading
The trend with adolescents towards an
overwhelming preference for cornics and
comic-strips deserves more consideration
than it has received.
The growing tendency to prefer pictures
to reading-matter is not confined to
youth. Our daily and weekly papers,
some of which now consist largely of
photographs, comic-strips and other illus-
trations, are a pretty clear indication of
what the adult public prefers. Some of
the dailies, in fact, have been transformed
within the last few years from staid con-
servative journalism to the modern style,
which aims at imparting news and infor-
mation by profuse illustration and brief,
sketchy paragraphs.
Weekly and monthly magazines also
reflect the preference for looking at pic-
tures instead of reading. The number
of Australian periodicals catering wholly
or primarily for the reading public could
be counted on the fingers of one hand,
and their circulations are, in the main,
far smaller than those whose appeal is to
the eye rather than the mind.
In short, the juvenile addiction to
picture-stuff merely mirrors the attitude
of the majority of adults. And it’s useless
and unfair to blame the coming genera-
tion for lack of interest in reading when
their elders set the example.
Contrary to common criticism, how-
ever, the reading-habit, in itself, is neither
good nor bad. An excessive addiction
to reading may be a vice rather than a
virtue. The bookworm, particularly the
juvenile one, who continually seeks
escape from reality into the realm of
books, is rarely a normal, well-balanced
individual.
And lack of interest in reading does
not necessarily denote lack of culture.
Within the last 20 years, particularly, the
radio has extended cultural influence into
eveiy home to a degree hitherto un-
dreamed of. My own experience is that,
thanks largely to radio, the current
generation of children is far more widely
informed than the youngsters of my own
day, even if many of them rarely turn the
pages of a book outside school-hours. —
Doynest (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 373
Across
I—The king-emperor with less hair
is the bawdier bone tree. (8)
s—Note the absence of Albert in
the service book. (6)
7 Australian State backing as
essay. (2)
8— He has an object following a
girl, but is making a mess of the
scabbard when putting the sword
in it. (12)
10 — Castigate the god of pastures.
(3)
11— International Idriess in the craft
guild. (5)
12 — Food with sportive equipment
for stopping the affirmative
Tono of Wells. (6)
14 —Beasts back all parents. (6)
16 —About to can a part of the eye.
(6)
18 — Move like wheel corruption
swallowed. (6)
19 — Skylight bishop unstored high-
land betweon Tamworth and
Armidale. (6)
21 — It is apostasy to urge Jolson
to make a wager with Lindwall.
(8)
22 Superior magistrate? (5)
23 — Used to be cut back. (3)
24 China of fiction, not of fact.
Boarders get the answer on
Mondays. (4-2, 6)
25 Seize part of a car brood. (6)
26 — Again draws Russian craft of
primitive structure. (8)
Down
1 — Athletes are queer smugglers
arranging football with the
husband of Mrs. Unners. (3-7)
2 Brute acts the superlative one
with Moslem neckwear. (12)
3 Mongolian river initiates layers
of hydrogen and nitrogen. (5)
4 The epoch’s main variation of a
great Dutch scholar. (8)
5 lamup in time in France. (3)
6 The entire affirmative poem on
Jolson is set at rest. (5)
7 Spinster of Arts who visited
Solomon? (5)
9 —Silk which makes a girl
enthusiastic. (7)
10 —French course would be prepared
by him. (8, 4)
13 —Surgically uses a poker with
acute deviations on salary
improvements. (10)
15 —As replacing Vic in the state
hotel like Waldorf. (7)
17 —Firm goes to the fifties before
part of the church breakdown.
(8)
20 — He helps Bradman to choose
teams from Derry. (5)
21 — W. S. Gilbert and the Spanish
hubbub shows Ruth is over 50.
(5)
22 — Airman with the broken rifle.
(5)
24—Drugget made by unmuscular
Matthews. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 372


i
if? : . : ,
■
i; s ' ■.
mss
mmm
■
' 'IV
fji.a
i-l
ill
•y '- ...
m
i
%
m
* - :
Seen any bad smells
You see them there , . . on open garbage tips. Flies, rats,
mosquitoes and other filthy disease-spreading vermin—
multiplying in their millions to prey on community health.
And you all but see the foul odours borne from the smolder-
ing plague spot by acrid choking smoke.
Yet it’s an unnecessary menace. There is a simple answer
to the garbage problem. It is called the “Landfill” method
of disposal. This is a system in widespread use in the United
States —an effective, proven, economical method of not
only permanently disposing of all types of refuse but of
turning what was previously wasteland into a valuable asset
—such as a parkland, a playground, a parking area, even
a new building area.
The many important advantages of the “Landfill” method
include : Elimination of a serious health menace and
objectionable sights and smells, reclamation of previous
wasteland, creation of new community assets, enhancement
of adjoining property values, minimum of equipment—
equipment that can also be used for other municipal works.
If your town or city suffers from garbage disposal worries,
ask your local authorities whether they’ve investigated this
method. Your Caterpillar Dealer will supply full
information.
Caterpillar of Australia Pty. Ltd.,
265 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
THE “LANDFILL” METHOD
DIG A TRENCH WITH DOZER
OR TRAXCAVATOR
Jiv..
*
v 5 V*-
r-
Si
SPREAD AND COMPACT WITH
DOZER OR TRAXCAVATOR
m*
DUMP THE GARBAGE IN.
m
m
A
COVER WITH CLEAN EARTH.
CATERPILLAR
*
e^ Gl
o*
o* 5
o' ?
£.©
-r*>
t* G
<V4
M 214
*CATERPILLAR AND CAT ARE REG-
ISTERED TRADE MARKS OF CATER-
PILLAR TRACTOR CO.. U.S.A.
