

/
fjtb
e
Si
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRV
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3997
FIFTY . IL-mge24
Wednesday, September 19, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 316: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
LINCOLN'S HIFGG BRIDGE UNIQUE IN ALL ENGLAND
THE historic cathedral city of Lincoln had its origin chiefly in the occupation
of the hilltop site by the Romans, about a.d. 48, who found it a perfect
site for a camp, overlooking a gap in the hills through which the River
Witham flows. Even today the layout of the streets follows the rectangular
plan of the typical Roman camp, and much evidence of their occupation still
exists. Until early in the sth .century, Lincoln was one of the chief Roman
towns in Britain, and it had the municipal status of a colony known as Lindum
Colonia from which is derived its present name.
It is a city with history in its soil, and possessing many fine relies of the
passing centuries.. In addition to its magnificent Gothic cathedral, there is
the Norman castle, built by William the Conqueror, the 14th-century Vicar’s
Court, St. Mary’s Guildhall, dating from .the 12th century, and many other
buildings of great antiquity, including High Bridge, illustrated here, the only
medieval bridge in England with houses still standing on it.
This picturesque bridge spans the River Witham, which was an important
highway ior the medieval trade in wool. The wool was brought down the
Fossdyke canal from the Midlands to Lincoln and then by way of the Witham
io the coast and across the sea to Flanders, where it
Although most of the raw wool was exported in this my, some
in Lincoln, which had a high reputation for quality; the cloth of Lincoln
green was mentioned in the tales of Robin Hood. t l when
The central part of the High Bridge dates from the 12tht centuiy, when
Lincoln was at the height of its prosperity as the centre of the wool trade, un
tts wit Iwe are fine Samples of half-timbered houses that were built about
' he Yiipteof its great historical heritage Lincoln plays
the industrial life of Britain today as it has done for : hr !fo f i fs
engineering and the production of agricultural machinery are only three ot
many industries.


uSftm&XliU]
jtlßiLiJyi
* haTe the ,n 'S° to write and the
ox P r ® ss . your thoughts on paper,
Writt you t 0 write Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars., Short
Stories, \ orse, etc., that will SELL. Bead
these extracts from Stott-,Students letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
hO. (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months mV acCen-
tancee liave returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I
sliaH receive for this article alone will
almost pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydnev; too Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 25.4 Murray St., Perth.
AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, y°u r Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDfiESS
S - B ' 1856 AGE.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Svdney
A service for readers. That difficult to' obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boot,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
THE MUSICAL BUSHRANGER
Bushrangers, under their rugged and
whiskery exteriors, were sensitive souls,
much hurt by their exclusion from
polite society, and their habit of
dropping into outback stations and
asking young ladies to play the piano
for them must be counted one of their
most engaging characteristics.
This particular story has been told
so often, of so many wild marauders,
that a suspicious mind may be inclined
to doubt it. It was a habit, if one
remembers rightly, of the Tasmanian
bushranger Brady; of Captain Moon-
lite or Moonlight; even of that most
unmusical soul, Morgan. It is told of
yet another desperado in a rhyme for
ever memorable for its slightly caco-
phonous ingenuity:—
And Miss O’Flanagan performed
In manner quite ginteelly
Upon the grand piano for
The bushranger O’Meally,
And now here is the same story
again in Frank Clune’s Captain
Melville (Angus and Robertson), told
of the mysterious Scotsman who mas-
queraded under that nom-de-plume
and whose real name, says Mr. Clune,
was Francis McNeish McNeil Mc-
Callum. It is of how Melville dropped
in at the station of the Mackinnons,
in southern Victoria in 1852, “elegantly
dressed and superbly mounted” and,
stealing nothing but a horse, had the
squatter’s two daughters, “radiant in
their ball-dresses,” play the piano and
sing to him; after which the bushranger
himself sang “Oft in the Stilly Night”
and then played “a melody of Mendels-
sohn.”
One’s doubts about this pretty
story become all the stronger when
considering Melville’s sordid and brutal
career, as outlined by Mr. Clune: three
times convicted of theft in his boy-
hood; transported at 16 from Scot-
land for some offence Mr. Clune has
been unable to ascertain (Charles
White says, without quoting his
authority, that it was for stealing a
potato-pie); repeatedly lashed or given
solitary-confinement in Van Diemen’s
Land for various kinds of “insubor-
dination”; sentenced to life-imprison-
ment for breaking into a house while
working on a road-gang; and then
eventually* while out on ticket-of-leave,
absconding to the Victorian goldfields
and the brief, glorious life of a high-
wayman.
. Nor does Melville’s career after the
interlude at the piano quite fit in with
this picture of the gentlemanly outlaw.
He was, alas, shortly afterwards sur-
prised by the police in a house of
ill-fame in Geelong. Charles White,
thus do popular historians disagree,
says ambiguously that he was nabbed
by two policemen who had entered the
establishment “for other purposes”;
whereas Mr. Clune says, perhaps more
plausibly, that he was betrayed by one
of the ladies of the place, no doubt
in a fit of virtue.
Thereafter he was imprisoned on the
hulks, and made a desperate attempt to
escape, in the course of which a sailor
was hurled into the water to drown and
a policeman was murdered. He was
tried for his life, reprieved on a techni-
cality—it does not seem likely that he
personally slew the policeman; and
everybody seems to have forgotten the
drowned sailor, who was merely a.-
convict —and afterwards strangled him-
self in his cell, or, as Mr. Clune sug-
gests as a possibility, without quoting
any evidence, was murdered by
revengeful warders.
It is difficult indeed to see such a
character playing Mendelssohn. Yet
among the crimes for which he was so
frequently and so ferociously punished
in Tasmania was one dreadful allega-
tion of
.13th September, 1843. Misconduct
in having two books improperly in
his possession. 2 months’ hard
labor in chains.
There is also, as an historical fact, the
information that while on the hulks he
was allowed some ease to translate the
Bible “into aboriginal speech.” And
the piano-playing episode, which is also
told in full in Charles White, is, in fact,
one of the very few occasions in
“Captain Melville’s” career as a bush-
ranger for which there appears to be
some evidence.
So, on the whole, however fre-
quently the story has been told of other
bushrangers, it looks as if we must
credit Melville with a taste both for
reading and for music; and, as we peer
down the dark corridor of history,
perceive, amidst all the brutalities that
were in and around him, a character of
considerable interest.
The figure is not clearly defined in
Mr. Clune’s book. He has few facts
to go upon, and he has not brough
together such facts as he has to build
up any consistent picture.
He has filled out the book with
great deal of material about the
convict-system in general, the goldfields
and land-settlement in Victoria; anc
his history is everywhere made
unreliable by the strange state of
indignation—with everybody on earth;
but particularly the squatters and Judge
Barry—in which nowadays his books
are written. How, for instance, can
Mr. Clune possibly say that it was “the
Mackinnon influence” which spurred
the Melbourne “Argus” to “wage a
feud against Melville,” when on his
own showing “Squatter Mackinnon
and his daughters and employees
declined to give evidence which would
prove any such charge” [of shooting
at the police; a capital matter]? Where
is his evidence for this accusation?
Where, for that matter, is his
evidence for this touching little vignette
from the trial:—
A veiled woman in the gallery
wept hot tears of shame at her own
infamy—the informer!
And why on earth should he accuse
Judge Barry of summing-up in “his
usual deadly manner”—as if he had
done some monstrous injustice to
Melville and his accomplice—when the
evidence against them, again on Mr.
Clune s own showing, was so clear that
no summingrup could fail to be
“deadly”?
Well, it has never been any use
asking Mr. Clune rhetorical questions.
It really is time these bushranging
histories were done soberly, reliably,
in acceptable prose and with a con-
vincing presentation of character. But
in the meantime “Captain Melville,”
for its information about a little-known
bushranger and the dark deeds of the
convict-system, cannot fail to be
interesting.
IN A GALLERY
Go now, you said,
But looking at me still.
Disasters led
Me to obey my will.
The world will not
Destroy us for our eyes;
What we have got
Is copied by no spies.
Truly, I’d go,
If you’d stare at the wall.
While you look so
1 cannot move at all.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
The Penguin Story
The Penguin Story, written by Sir
Emrys Williams, is a brief account of
the development of the publishing
firm which celebrates its 21st birthday
this year and whose chosen symbol is
the Antarctic bird which can’t fly but
can only waddle.
On a modest initial capital of £lOO
the Lane brothers, Allen, John and
Richard, started their bird off. There
was nothing original in their concep-
tion of popular paper-cover reprints;
what was adventurous about it was
the retail price of sixpence, which
struck most book-trade experts as an
unconscionable gamble.
The first flock was a selection of
relatively safe titles—Andre Maurois’s
“Ariel,” Ernest Hemingway’s “Fare-
well to Arms” and others to the number
of ten, including, as a portent, a detec-
tive-novel by Agatha Christie, who is
still turning them out at the rate of
one a minute. Success was immediate.
Orders poured in.
The next flock was of higher
standard. It included “South Wind,”
by Norman Douglas, “The Purple
Land,” of W. H. Hudson, E. M.
Forster’s “A Passage to India” and
titles by Aldous Huxley, Joseph
Conrad, Evelyn Waugh and Sinclair
Lewis. And, of course, a few more
thrillers by way of bread-and-butter.
The Penguins were followed by the
Pelicans in 1937. These are large birds
with capacious pouches, and the first
fish that went into them was a whale—
Shaw’s • “The Intelligent Woman’s
Guide to Socialism and Capitalism.”
This constituted the first original
creative publishing in the firm’s his-
tory, as the indefatigable Shaw supplied
a whole new section on Fascism and
Socialism. Also included were Julian
Huxley, Roger Fry, Clive Bell, Freud
and Arnold Bennett.
The Pelicans in some cases sold to
the extent of a quarter of a million
copies. The World War was approach-
ing, so special writers were commis-
sioned to write new books on such
burning topics as Franco, Hitler and
Mussolini, while science, . history
archaeology, literature, philosophy anc
psychology got a look-in with specially
commissioned volumes by distinguished
writers. And, of course, the thriller-
writers were not neglected.
The outbreak of war did not check
the proliferation of the Penguins; in
fact, the bird became more fertile than
ever. Because of the huge sales of
specials before the war the Lane
brothers were able to command a very
sizeable paper-quota when rationing
was started. The Penguin family had
added to it King Pelicans, Puffins,
Penguin Modern Painters. Penguin
Musical Scores and the Pelican History
of Art, a gigantic business.
In 1946 there was another innova-
tion, a new library of translations, the
first of which was a new translation
of “The Odyssey,” by E. V. Rieu, in
contemporary* English. It has sold
nearly, a million copies. It was followed
by the Four Gospels, Chaucer,
Cervantes, Julius Caesar, Chekhov,
Dante, the Greeks, the Russians, the
French and the Latins. In their new
dress the Four Gospels are delightful
reading, but no more so than that bane
of schoolboys, Chaucer.
Penguins started off as a private
company and still remains so. The
three original shareholders were
reduced to two in 1942 when John, a
naval officer, was killed in action, and
the vast job of organisation devolved
on his two brothers. Although it is
popularly supposed to be in the big
money, the firm has never paid a
dividend, and the two shareholders,
Sir Allen and his brother Richard, are
working directors. Profits, which
amount to a little over a halfpenny on
an average price of two-and-sixpence
are fed back into the business, which
last year reached 10,000,000 copies,
overseas and in U.K.
Authors, if living, get an average
of sevenpence-halfpenny a copy and
a larger public than the more serious
of them would ever have envisaged.
And it is all done on the backs of the
thriller-writers.
Eugene O'Neill
Now published by Cape in it
excellent standard-edition of Eugen
O’Neill’s plays, Long Day’s Journe;
Into. Night was frankly admitted by
the author to be autobiographical—
presumably a portrait of his father
mother and elder brother, with one
character, Edmund, who appears to
be the playwright himself —and no
doubt this explains the sympathy ant
clarity of the characterisation, whicl
is wonderfully conveyed through the
difficult medium of dialogue.
The Irish father, a great actor, font
cjf life and whisky, speculating in land
mean about money in petty ways ant
even to the extent of trying to buy the
cheapest medical attention for the
younger son when he has tuberculosis
with the defence that he has fough
his way up from nothing and fear
the poorhouse in his old age; the once
beautiful mother, her hands twisted by
rheumatism, a hopeless morphine
addict, troubled about Edmund’
tuberculosis and still more deeply
troubled by old memories of the dead
of a child; the two sons in their thirties
both depicted as drunkards and loafers
sponging on the father in such humilia
tion that they have to refill the whisky
bottle with a nip of water every time
they sneak a drink; an Irish maid
servant who, in the play’s only momen
of relief, gets tight on whisky when
she is consoling the mother one night
—these people are all drawn with
the firmness and depth of fine portraits
in oils. It is rare indeed to see such
certitude, not “types” but individuals,
in dramatic writing.
So, too, are the strains and tensions
of this most miserable family excel-
lently conveyed; particularly the inex-
tricable mixture of love and hate in
which they work out their lives: every-
body at once sympathetic and affec-
tionate to the mother, yet repelled by
her surrender to dope and the dream-
like, inhuman state, lost in memories
of her happy days as a girl in a con-
vent, in which, under its influence, she
moves through the house; the father
fond of his sons, yet continually
irritated by their ineffectiveness; the
brothers deeply attached, but the elder
brother, Jamie, himself admitting—
perhaps rather improbably—that in a
sense he hates Edmund for his measure
of integrity (he has been to sea; he
writes things for the local paper) and
that he would like to drag him down to
his own level of hopeless failure.
Flow the play would act on the stage
is anybody’s guess. Very little happens
in it, except that it is confirmed that
Edmund has tuberculosis and that the
mother is irredeemably lost in mor-
phine. Mostly it consists of endless,
bitter quarrelling and having another
whisky—in spite of the old man’s
parsimony they must get through about
a barrel of it. It would probably be
dreary, repetitive, fascinating all the
time and lively at odd moments; and,
in the end, depressing.
It never seems to this reviewer that
it is altogether a kindly gesture to offer
an audience three hours of solid misery
for a night’s entertainment at the
theatre; and there is always Matthew
Arnold’s majestic disapproval of
“mere misery” as bad art —tragedy
should be left to the poetic drama
which, in “Lear” or “Macbeth,” exalts
the mind. To stress the mood of hope-
lessness O’Neill has obviously taken
care that the brothers shall never be
shown enjoying themselves in bars and
brothels, as they are said to do; nor is
o Continued on page 35)


§i
INVITATION
TO THE
ENGLISH FINE CHINA EXHIBITION
[S'/.
m
#
WEDGWOOD
BONE CHINA
9
❖
/N EN° V
linM xfig
o
o
G*
V
4^
V
o
o
*
o
Spooe
&
w m
:.; ; •■;.:/
To be officially opened by the
United Kingdom Trade Commissioner at 12 noon, Monday next, September 24th
Anthony Horderns* proudly present, for the first time in Australia, an
English Fine ‘ China Exhibition, which includes all the members of the
"Fine China Association." Never before has this country had the
opportunity of seeing and comparing at one time a fully comprehensive
range of fine English China from six of the most skilled and famous makers
in the world to-day. Each maker has sent us his best in design, quality and
modern artistic creations, as well as some of the old favourites and ever-
greens for which each is famous. Exhibition, 3rd floor, China Department.
A
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
nthony Horderns
EXHIBITION OPEN FROM


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3997
Wednesday, September 19, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
-- - e
HEAD OFFIcl^: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
CAPACITY TO PAY
IT seenjs to be generally accepted that there’ll be
another Commonwealth-States conference on wage-
problems soon after the Prime Minister gets back.
The chief point at issue is whether wages under
State awards shall continue to spiral with every
quarterly rise in the price-index —which they help
to feed-—or whether they shall, like those under
the jurisdiction of the Federal Arbitration Court,
be varied at somewhat longer intervals and without
any direct tie-up with the C-series index.
At one stage of the earlier conference it seemed
probable that the States might accept the wisdom
of the latter course, although four of them were
“Labor”-governed and such a decision would have
been against theu,policy of the A.C.T.U. and the
Federal A.L.P. At that conference Liberal
Premier Bolte, of Victoria, who had' inherited State
adjustments from Cain “Labor,” refused to scrap
them without a cash subsidy from Canberra.
Fadden refused to consider any deal of that nature,
and, after further palaver, the conference collapsed.
Last week’s decision by the, Bolte Govern-
ment to reverse its previous policy and put an end
to automatic adjustments in its State awards raises
the hope that a second conference might be more
successful and that the “Labor” Premiers—their
numbers reduced to three by the turn of events in
Tasmania—may now be more amenable to
economic argument. Co-operation between State
and Federal wings of the “Labor” party cannot
at the present time be said to be working 100 per
cent. If it were, then the chances of any agree-
ment being reached at a Canberra conference would
be negligible. In the Budget debate speaker after
speaker on the Opposition side repeated the old
story, familiar since the election campaign of 1949,
that it is the policy of the Government to reduce
wages and create unemployment. If the critics are
right as to the Government’s intentions, then for
eight years it has been singularly unsuccessful on
both counts.
Eli Harrison, M.H.R. for Blaxland, accused
the Government of “freezing wages and, in point of
fact, even of reducing them.” Rejecting capacity-
to-pay as a principle of wage-fixation, he went back
to 1920 to resurrect a dictum of William Morris
Hughes that the basic wage should be a wage
“which will enable the citizen receiving it to live
according to a standard of comfort fitting and
proper in a progressive community.” In the opinion
of the “Labor” party, according to Harrison, that
definition still holds good.
Billy Hughes, of course, was not a “Labor”
man when he utterejd it; he had broken with the
party three years earlier and was Prime Minister
of a Nationalist Government. His definition repre-
sented an ideal well worth striving for, but it can’t
be said that it was achieved during his Prime
Ministership, nor during the lives of the many
Ministries of which he was subsequently a
“Labor” was in power in Canberra during 1929-31
and 1941-49, but it would be very difficult to find
any “Labor” man who would maintain that the
basic wage, at any time during those two periods,
fulfilled the terms of Hughes’s definition.
After quoting Hughes, Harrison returned to
Government policy and said: —
And so, for the first time since 1920, the
Government adopts the attitude of the court, and
in the future there will be no relationship between
the cost of living and what the worker shall be
paid.
This is a misrepresentation in two ways.
Firstly, all Federal Governments in the past 30
years, Liberal and “Labor” alike, have supported
the awards of the arbitration court. Secondly,
there is still a relationship between the cost of
living and the basic wage; the court Recognised
this by granting an increase of 10s. last May. What
the court and the Government do say is that the
cost of living should not be the sole determinant
of the basic wage. This is not a new principle at
all—a fact which the arbitration court emphasised
in its judgment suspending quarterly adjustments.
The Hughes definition of 1920 was obviously
based on the original Harvester award of Mr.
Justice Higgins in 1907, wherein he spoke of a
standard “appropriate to the normal needs of the
average employee, regarded as a human being
living in a civilised community.” But having said
that, Higgins did not base his award on the expendi-
ture necessary to permit such a standard. He based
his finding of 7s. a day on the minimum rates paid
by “public bodies which do not aim at profit but
which are responsible to electors or others for
economy.” Seven shillings was the rate then being
paid by the Melbourne City Council, the Metro-
politan Board of Works and 13 out of 17
municipal councils. The basic wage, then fixed for
the first time, at 425. a week, thus recognised from
the beginning that the standard desired had to be
tempered to practical requirements.
The Powers judgment of 1921 added 3s. to the
wage and provided for quarterly cost-of-living
adjustments. Powers, J., said that its purpose was
to maintain the Harvester standard in a period of
rapidly-rising prices and that it did not increase the
standard. It is this 1921 opinion of the court that
Harrison and other “Labor” leaders cling to today,
ignoring the many subsequent judgments which
modified it.
The basic-wage judgment of 1931 said:—
With its acknowledged imperfections, the
method adopted by our predecessors of applying
the Commonwealth Statistician’s
to the standard set by the Harvester judgment has
done good service, and the discovery of any better ~
method can only be made after long and careful
inquiry.
But it added that
Always it has been necessary and always it
will be necessary to entertain applications to vary
awards on the ground of substantial changes in
economic conditions.
A year later this was followed with
For this court to fix a basic wage at an
amount which would procure an average standard
of living for vvage-eamtrs such as the court would
very gladly see prevailing would be worse than
futile if the nation’s income is not large enough
to maintain the prescribed standard.
During the 1930 V the principle of “capacity
to pay” was more and more recognised by the court,
most specifically in a 1934 judgment which spoke
of “the highest basic wage that can be sustained
by the total of industry in all its primary, secondary
and ancillary forms.” In the 1940-41 inquiry the
three judges gave differing judgments, but they
all agreed on this point and the 1950 judgment,
which added a further £1 “prosperity loading” to
other loadings which had been superimposed on
the “needs” wage, also recognised the same
principle.
Referring to these loadings in the quarterly-
adjustments judgment in 1953, the court said:.—
The further the court has withdrawn from
relating the basic wage to the fulfilment of any
particular standard of needs, the less has become
the justification for keeping the nominal wage
“automatically” adjusted during the currency of
an award.... The court finds it impossible to
justify the continuance of an “automatic” adjust-
ment system whose purpose is to maintain the
purchasing-power of a particular wage (assessed
with regard to the capacity of industry to pay
such a wage in 1950). There is no ground fori
assuming that the capacity to pay will be main-
tained at the same level or that it will rise or
fall coincidentally with the purchasing-power of
money.
There was no reason, said the court, to think
that the capacity of industry as a whole to pay
increased wages rose or fell with the C-series index.
This is an opinion which the “Labor” party
refuses to accept, although failure to do so leads
to the ridiculous conclusion that famine prices for
potatoes or steep rises in rail-fares or electricity-
rateS increase the capacity of industry to pay a
higher wage. 0
It seems that the time has come for the A.L.P.
to recast its thinking on wage-policy. It is natural
for industrial advocates, arguing a case for the
unions in the arbitration court, to overstate and
exaggerate their claims—no one, surely, would for
one moment assert that the latest log of claims
submitted by the A.R.U. has any relation to reality
or any likelihood of acceptance —but it shouldn’t
be necessary to carry that line of argument into
the national Parliament. So long 'as “Labor”
persists in doing so it will rdmain a sectional party,
pursuing sectional claims regardless of their effect
on the national interest.
When the “Labor” movement was young it
had to convince wage-earners that it had their
interests at heart. After sixty-odd years of endeavor
that should no longer be necessary, yet the majority
of “Labor” politicians seem to have no other
guiding principle than to convince the worker that
they are working for his welfare., Can’t they trust
their supporters to believe them if they tell them
unpalatable truths instead of feeding them on
fallacies? Or is it that they have not sufficient
faith in themselves to believe that in those circum-
stances “the workers” would continue to have faith
in them?
A Prize For Lawyers
THE Australian public has only the haziest ideas
about its own Federal Constitution and State
rights, and that is perhaps understandable enough,
in view of the fact that since the Commonwealth
was formed there have been two world wars and
all the political and economic turbulence that go
with them. It has not been a half-century suitable
for calm deliberation of Constitutional affairs,
especially in view of the rise of the doctrinaire
politician (and pressure-group) aiming at revolution
instead of evolution.
“The Bulletin” makes the suggestion that
study of the Federal Constitution should begin in
the schools, and that a few basic axioms of Federal
and State rights might be laid down for inculcation.
It also remembers jingles whereby such matters as
the kings of England and the Ten Commandments
(not to mention .the days in the months of the year)
were made easier to remember, more especially in
the years after school; and, later in life, a couplet
qu’oted in W. M. Geldart’s “Elements of English
Law”: —
Thou shall not kill, hut needst not strive,
Officiously to keep alive,
thereby reminding “The Bulletin” of the fact (and
so giving it a great deal of comfort) that if it saw
a certain politician (and/or politicians) drowning it
could stand unofficiously by and let him (and/oi
them) drown without the slightest danger of being
charged with anything.
Now, couldn’t some Constitutional jingle be
written by a competent authority to be drummed
into schoolchildren who mightn’t care a hoot about
it until they were old enough to vote at their first
referendum, but which then might be recalled to
guide them to vote reasonably intelligently?
A very rough suggestion to begin with:—
The Commonwealth> in time of war,
Has powers, rights and tasks galore.
In peace-time, some are glad to see,
Trade between States must be free.
The Commonwealth takes income-tax
But hands it to the States in whacks. ....
Set down a great deal more tidily and with a
careful regard for the legal truths, the thing
might run to a few stanzas and cover some of the
more obvious lines of demarcation between Federal
and State rights and responsibilities are
certainly not generally understood now.
Anyway, “The Bulletin,” after careful delibera-
tion, has decided to offer 'a prize for the best jingle
of the kind. The contest will be open to all lawyers
in Australia (“The Bulletin” being a national
newspaper), preferably Constitutional authorities,
including retired and present judges of the High
Court. The award will be a “Bulletin” cheque for
half-a-guinea, antedated to January 1, 1901, and
framed behind glass so that it will be impossible to
cash it at the bank.
There is only one other condition: Each
lawyer’s jingle must be accompanied by an affidavit
from another Constitutional lawyer, sworn before
an ordinary J.P., agreeing to the soundness of the
poet’s interpretation of the Constitution, though not
necessarily of his verse.
The Doctor and the Weed
FOR the best contributions, over the last decade, to
the development of chemical science in organic
chemistry and biochemistry, Dr. James Price has
been awarded the H. G. Smith Memorial Medal
for 1956 by the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute.
Jirg Price, who pegs away at the complex,
sensitive _ work of analysing Australian plants at
the Industrial Chemistry Division of the C.5.1.R.0.
at Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, is the estimable
fellow who unmasked the Australian weed,
heliotrope.
Stock like heliotrope and suffer no immediate
ill-effects from it, but later die from damaged livers.
Dr. Price isolated the liver-damaging elements in
heliotrope, and they are now under examination by
the C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of Animal Health. The
same elements are present in ragwort in Gippsland,
and humans have been affected by them in South
Africa, where the seed has infiltrated wheat.
Dr. Price’s work generally is devoted to the
analysis of Australian plants from economic,
medical and agricultural viewpoints. Besides
analysing those poisonous to stock he finds useful
sources of drugs.
He is a tremendously keen scientist, very happy
to discuss his labors in lay language. He is a
Master of Science of Adelaide Uni., and a decade
ago he put in a couple of years at Oxford, where
he became a Doctor of Philosophy. His study in
Britain was at Glen Innis Horticultural Institute,
and under Sir Robert Robinson.


BOUND IN GREENHIDE, AND A CLOSED BOOK TO MOST AUSTRALIANS


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Canal and the Veto
Sir Anthony Eden’s announcement in
the House of Commons that the U.K.,
U.S. and France intended to form a Suez
Canal Users’ Association which, follow-
ing the failure of the Menzies mission to
bring Nasser to terms, would operate its
own ships brought a yell of execration
from the Opposition benches in the
Commons. Eden proposes that all other
nations interested shall be asked to join.
Mr. Gaitskell notwithstanding, he got
the backing of the majority of the House
of Commons.
The Prime Minister has not said how
the Users’ Association will see its vessels
through the canal. He would be a fool
if he did at this stage. He is dealing
with someone who is under strong
Moscow influence and who, according to
the statement delivered to the British
Embassy in Moscow on September 15,
has Moscow’s backing; but Mr. Dulles
says that if U.S. ships are refused passage
they will go round the Cape, and his
Government will be glad to accommodate
any other nation that cares to come into
the United States bloc by subsidising the
longer voyages. He is making, as usual,
a pretty poor showing as an ally, if
his bare words can be believed, and
leaving the impression that he is the one
virtuous influence in the picture and that
he would like to see the British*
discredited. But in the absence of his
whole statement, and with a knowledge
of the Left-slanted nature of the report-
ing of some of the news-agencies which
are supplying the Australian dailies, it
is perhaps unfair to judge.
The U.K. and the Australian Labor
parties are concerned firstly with how
they can use the situation to persuade
the electors that the Eden and Menzies
Governments are warmongers and
imperialists. Their only solution is to
take the matter of the canal to U.N.O.
and let the Security * Council settle it.
Dr. Evatt is particularly anxious that
this should be done. So is Moscow. With
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Ward and their friends
the U.N.O. decision should be the final
decision.
There are precedents to show what it
will be. When Egypt, in 1951, blockaded
the canal against ships carrying goods to
Israel, flatly against the spirit of the
Israeli-Egyptian armistice agreement, and
in conditions which made the action, in
the opinion of the U.N.O. Armistice
Commission, an act of aggression, Aus-
tralia, Denmark, France, Italy, Nether-
lands, Norway, United Kingdom and the
U.S.A. protested individually against the
blockade, ancHhe Soviet Union protested
against the detention of one of its ships.
The matter was taken to the Security
Council., Egypt tried to prevent Britain,
France, U.S., Netherlands and Turkey
from voting on the ground that they
were interested parties. It received no
support. A resolution by the Security*
Council called on Egypt to “terminate
the restrictions” and to “cease all inter-
ference with shipping beyond that
essential to the safety of shipping in the
canal and to the observance of the inter-
national conventions in force.”
The Egyptians refused to obey the
Council’s demand. A Cairo spokesman
merely .said that his Government regarded
the resolution as a “simple recommen-
dation” which was not binding and
which it had no intention of obeying.
When, in March, 1954, the Egyptian
Government extended its illegal embargo
and put 99 British, U.S. and Swedish
ships—Bl of them oiltankers —on a black-
list, Mr. Munro, the New Zealand repre-
sentative on the Security Council, moved
a motion on March 23 expressing “grave
concern” at Egypt’s failure to comply
with the Security Council’s request in
1951 and reaffirming the 1951 resolution.
When it was voted on (March 29, 1954)
eight countries voted for it—-N.Z., U.K.,
U.S.A., France, Denmark, Turkey,
Colombia and Brazil. Only two voted
against—U.S.S.R.' and Lebanon. But
Russia vetoed it, and it was therefore
defeated by one vote to eight.
Dr. Evatt and his friends know this
is certain to happen again. They are also
aware that the reference to the Security
Council means long delay in settlement
which will enable the Egyptians td scour
the world for substitutes for the pilots
who have left almost in a body.
Also U.N. will provide a world
forum in which Russia and Egypt can
give full vent to a vicious and provocative
spleen. In other words, it will give
Moscow and Cairo more chances to
electioneer for the Evatts.
Nobody seems to ask why the
Egyptians don’t refer the matter to
U.N.O. if they are sure of their position.
The Mails Mustn't
Get Through!
“If anyone is victimised,” says the
secretary of the Postal Workers’ Union,
there’ll be hell to pay. Or words to that
effect. He is speaking, of. course, of
the members of his union, and by
“victimised” he means called upon to
bear the consequences of their lawless
actions.
It doesn’t seem to have occurred to
this temporary tsar of the sorting-room
that tens of thousands of people have
already been victimised by the of
his union. Mention has been made in
the daily press of teachers and other
public servants whose salary-cheques
haven’t turned up because the envelopes
containing them aren’t addressed to the
satisfaction of the sorters. Apparently
these infringe some real or imaginary
regulation which says there shall be no
printing on the right-hand side of an
envelope. Government envelopes, of
course, have “0.H.M.5.” printed top-
centre, which means that the “M.S.” is
inside forbidden territory, according to
the interpretation of the sorters. In
Sydney this has led to the disgraceful
sequel of the Commissioner for Motor
Transport appealing to the public when
returning driving-licences or registration
certificates not to use the departmental
envelopes provided for the purpose but
to put the papers in a plain envelope. A
plain envelope! The phrase is lifted
from the advertisements for pornographic
books and dubious sex-information
literature.
Even more ridiculous is the alleged
insistence on State names and street
names being spelt-out in full. If N.S.W.
doesn’t mean New South Wales and
George-st. George-street, what in the
name of Mercury do they mean? If there
is such a rule then whoever is responsible
for it should be thrust backwards through
an automatic stamping-machine.
At the best a regulation-strike is a
cowardly device. It seeks to gain the
advantages of a full-scale strike without
any of the risks. In reality it is a go-
slow campaign disguised as conscientious
observance of rules.
Up till Friday the tragic /arce enabled
postal-workers, pledged to public service,
to remain on full pay and privileges
while their wanton disregard for public
welfare threw the mail-service into chaos.
The P.M.G. then took the logical step
of suspending some of the regulations.
If, as the union was till then maintain-
ing, the sorters were merely carrying-
out (rather meticulously) the instructions
of the department, they would have no
recourse but to observe the new regula-
tions. Instead they insisted on sticking
to the old ones, thus turning their regu-
lation-strike first into undeniable go-
slow and, after they had been ordered to
desist, into wilful disobedience. Sus-
pensions followed, and then a general
walk-out of all sorters at Sydney G.P*O.
Sunday’s mass-meeting decided on a
return to work —but not until midnight
Tuesday, and then only if there was no
“victimisation.” A further decision “to
intensify the regulation-strike” was
announced. When this went to the printer
the P.M.G. had given the strikers until
6 p.m. Monday to return to work and
to end the regulation-strike, failing which
the Government would “put into action
plans to defeat the strike.”
Menzies Back Again
Mr. Menzies is due home this week.
There are few Australian statesmen to
whom so great a compliment has been
paid as that which made him leader of
the delegation to Cairo.
Nobody expected the mission to
succeed. The Russian and Egyptian
attitudes, not to mention those of India
and Ceylon, seemed to preclude the
possibility. But there was room for a
kind of failure damaging to the whole
West through lack of negofiatory ability,
bad-temper or indiscretion on the part
of the chief negotiator.
That the Australian Prime Minister was
appointed was a tribute to the admiration
for his special qualities in such a situation
and to the general acknowledgment of his
uprightness.
He comes back a tired man, in a difficult
political situation and with shifting ground
under his feet. In his absence his place
has been taken loyally and unremittingly
by Sir Arthur Fadden, who has been
suffering from the tremendous sjrain of a
man carrying-out the dual role of Prime
Minister in time of international crisis
and Treasurer in domestic crisis under
heavy sniping fire from every direction.
He has carried out the job zealously, and
few have known of the desperate heart-
break in the background of his work
due to the illness of'his eldest son, from
whom he had expected great things.
Sir Eric Harrison’s departure will mean
a blow to the Prime Minister, as will, in
another way, the death during his absence
of the Speaker, with whom he was often
in dispute but always in co-operation on
a remarkable basis of mutual esteem.
Sir Eric Harrison was loyal beyond the
normal habit of leading politicians. He
subjugated all his ambitions for leader-
ship. He was a House Leader of a kind
rarely seen in Parliament —well acquainted
with procedure, always ready to com-
promise with the Opposition for speaking-
time and in other matters of convenience
and well trusted by everybody. A hard
worker and a teetotaller, a powerful
debater, Parliament and his Ministry took
up the whole of his life. He will no
doubt make a good High Commissioner—
or as good as the circumstances of his
office will allow —and he will be a
For a Laugh Read
"A MORAL IN
MOLASSES"—p. 20 *
distinct loss to Parliament at this juncture.
The future of the Parliament depends
very much on Mr. Menzies’s choice of
> new Ministers, and on his handling of the
immediately current issues of Suez,
finance and the post-office strike, which
is virtually a rebellion and calls for the
strongest action under the law against its
wanton promoters.
He is, despite the great ability of men
(ike R. G. Casey in their own spheres,
about the only man who can hold the
Liberal and Country parties together in
the present situation. If there were a
real Opposition instead of a Communist-
ridden rabble on the Opposition benches
the (Government could have been torn to
bits during his absence.
Stay-put Bolte
It is not often a Budget reflects so truly
the sincere and forthright personality of
the Premier or Treasurer as does Henry
Bolte’s in Victoria.
He has rejected the easy and over-
familiar course of allowing wages to rise
and of jacking-up prices to meet the cost.
Instead he will abolish the c.-0.-l. adjust-
ments for State wages-board workers
and Crown workers under Federal awards
which the Cain Government mis-
chievously introduced, although it was
calculated to sabotage the Federal Gov-
ernment’s efforts to stop wages-inflation ;
and he h& peremptorily curbed depart-
mental efforts to raise basic charges.
Rail-fares and -freights, tram-fares
(although new tickets had been printed
during his absence abroad), domestic gas
prices and electricity charges (although
all-round rises had been announced on
the eve of his return) have all been pegged
at their current levels.
Eritertainment-tax goes up 50 per cent,
(fortunately the incidence will be felt
chiefly on cinema rather than theatre
seats); stamp-duties on cheques and
receipts rise slightly ; there is a new £1
per cent, tax on h.-p. contracts; car-
registrations go up 50 per cent, (bringing
them up to most other States); and
industrial electricity charges will cost a
little more. Racing-clubs have got a
handful of the winter oats they need in
a smell of the bookmakers’ turnover-
tax.
The estimated deficit is £2.4 million,
compared with last year’s £3.2 million.
The railways are expected to lose £5.6
million this year. Freights would, of
course, be raised if the Government was
not dependent on the support of the
Country party in the Legislative Council.
The Victorian Country party, true to its
traditions, has no qualms about capsiz-
ing the State finances if financial benefits
can be wrung from the State at the
expense of other citizens.
The Budget was a surprise, but it
shouldn’t have been so unexpected con-
sidering Bolte’s insistence at the anti-
inflation conference that wages couldn’t
be frozen completely unless some form
of price-control went with it. His Budget
curbs wages and also the prices that the
Government charges for its services.
Bolte spent the days after his Budget-
speech reminding industrialists and others
he „was a man for private enterprise. The
implication was that his political faith
had its limits, and these would be reached
in the case of closely-knit organisations
seeking undue profits.
Protest - meetings were immediately
organised by the unions which will be
affected by the withdrawal of the auto-
matic quarterly c.-0.-l. adjustments,
apparently in the belief that Crown
employees under Federal awards and
workers under State boards are more
privileged beings than the nobodies who
work under Federal awards and don’t
receive the quarterly adjustments. Cain’s
decision to make the adjustments, like
that 6f other “Labor” Premiers, had been
perhaps the most wantonly provocative
act in his long career.
With Left and Right
A.L.P. Federal executive struck-out with
both fists last week —though not
necessarily with equal force. With its
right hand it issued a directive to State
branches to the effect that any member
who agreed to have his name linked with
Communists on a how-to-vote ticket
would be committing an offence against
the party and must be dealt with. The
announcement led the two Anti-Com-
munist “Labor” Senators to ask what
action the Federal executive proposed to
take against the Victorian executive, which
had permitted unity-tickets and had thus
helped to hand over the A.R.U., the
W.W.F. and other unions to Communist
control.
The Federal executive’s left-hook was
aimed at the Industrial Labor Organisa-
tion, set up in N. S. Wales by the sup-
porters of the industrial-groups. The
organisation has been outlawed, and
A.L.P. members have been given until
October 15 to resign, failing which they
will face expulsion from the “Labor”
party. Among those vitally affected by
the decision are Lloyd Ross, secretary of
the A.R.U.; L. Short, secretary of the
Ironworkers’ Association; and J. T.
Kane, former secretary of the “old”
N.S.W. executive and now secretary of
the 1.L.0. Kane’s comment on the news
was that he had to choose between
giving-up the fight against Communism
or losing his membership of the “Labor”
party. He had decided to continue the
fight against Communism.
No decision was reached by the
executive in regard to the A.L.P. Rank-
and-file Committee, a body which
includes Kane, Allan Manning and
several other displaced members of the
“old” N. S. Wales executive. This com-
mittee has issued a pamphlet demanding
that the State conference which should
have been held on June 2 shall be held
on or before the weekend October 27-28,
and that the “present illegally appointed
State executive submit themselves to the
rank-and-file at this conference.” Failing
such a conference the committee will call
“a State-wide rank-and-file meeting to
consider the steps needed for the restora-
tion of democracy in the A.L.P.” A third
resolution of the committee calls for a
change in the Federal leadership “as an
essential step towards winning back the
confidence of the electors.”
There is no likelihood of the Evatt
“Labor” party agreeing to the October
28 proposal. There is little likelihood of
the threatened 1.L.0. men obeying the
Federal order. There is every likelihood
of an attempt to form another “Labor”
party in N. S, Wales.
More Light on Defence
“Stromlo”: While some .hundreds of
observers at Maralinga have been study-
ing the atomic* side of the defence
programme, two of the Ministers
associated with defence have been in
Canberra, making puzzling aspects of the
general defence programme plainer.
Some clear statements were essential,
both because of criticism that too much
was being spent unnecessarily on defence
and because of the recent assertion from a
high quarter that the Services were not
adequately equipped or ready for
mobilisation. The gloomy Middle East
background served as a backdrop for
some of the vivid light now thrown on
what has been done and what remains to
be accomplished.
Much of the criticism has been aimed
at the apparent static nature of the pro-
gramme, including the few changes in
National, Service training from that in
vogue for militia during World War 11.
The concept of war, of strategy and
tactics, has been altering radically during
the feverish period since the end of that
war, and it has inevitably been a difficult
matter for a nation with limited
resources and large commitments to keep
pace with developments. That much was
implied by Sir Philip Mcßride’s admission
o Continued on next page).


that the meeting of the Seato military
advisers in the Philippines this month was
the culmination of a series of planning
studies “which should enable the Govern-
ment to review Australia’s defence role in
the light of Seato plans for the defence
of the Treaty area.” He agreed that this
view would have a bearing on the
Organisation, strength and balance of the
services, which were also necessarily
affected by the changing pattern of war-
fare as a result of the development of new
weapons and their means of delivery, and
the improvement of existing weapons.
These were cautious but illuminating
words. It was reassuring to be told, if
vaguely, that the services were keeping
abreast of the new techniques and
methods, and that when the reviews were
completed and decisions were reached by
the Government an announcement would
be made. It was apparent that the
dilemma of the Government and its
advisers on the subject had been increased
by the changing climate of world affairs,
including the recent sudden switch from
“Set Fair” to “Stormy.” It had also to be
acknowledged that rising costs and the
increasing complexity of equipment were
contributing their share to the problems,
although the recapitulation of the build-
up in strengths of the forces was not
unduly impressive, nor was the “Aus-
tralian contribution in Cold War opera-
tions in overseas theatres.”
The defence-production picture was
better, and on this both Mcßride and Sir
Eric Harrison took pains to stress the
importance and the urgent priority of the
St. Mary’s £23-million ammunition-filling
factory. It is known that Sir Eric took a
good deal of, convincing before he
approved the project, but his whole-
hearted support for it then convinced the
Cabinet. The evidence he offered Parlia-
ment last week, much of it given previ-
ously but still incomplete for security
reasons, should now quieten the critics,
especially on the Sydney newspapers, who
have been howling about the scheme for
months.
Harrison has not forgotten the
shortages which existed on the outbreak
of World War 11, and he has been deter-
mined that in the event of war the Aus-
tralian troops would have adequate sup-
plies of conventional arms. As he told
the House, referring to the factory, Aus-
tralians “might well have reason to be
thankful for its existence.”
MERCURIAL
Beginning at the G.P.0.,
They’re fabricating time to waste
By. straining rules and going slow. —
That must be what they call post-haste!
P. O. M. C.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies was due to reach Mascot air-
port, Sydney, on Tuesday, right in the
middle of “Bob-a-job” week.
• • •
Although the trouble between Tas-
manian Minister for Housing C. A.
Bramich and his Cabinet colleagues had
apparently been simmering for some time*
when the break came last week it was sur-
prising in its completeness. It is not
unusual for a Minister to resign his port-
folio, nor, for that matter, to leave his
party and become an Independent. But
Bramich did the thing thoroughly. One
day he was a Minister in a “Labor”
Government; the next he was a private
member of the Liberal Opposition. His
defection left the Cosgrove Government
in a minority in the Assembly and its
defeat on a censure motion the same
night was a foregone conclusion.
• •
For the past ten years the parties have
been very evenly divided in the Tas-
manian Assembly. In that period the
composition of the House has been:
“Labor” Liberal Jndep.
1946 .... 16 12 2
1948 .... 15 12 3
1950 .... 15 14 l
1955 .... 15 15
In anticipation of an equally divided
House a bill was passed shortly before
the 1955 election providing that in case
of a deadlock the party polling the
majority of votes should form the
Government and the minority party
should provide the Speaker and the Chair-
man of Committees. The present Parlia-
ment had been operating for 18 months
on this basis, but Bramich’s change of
horses in midstream has now given
the Liberals a 16-14 majority.
• •
Bramich gave as the reason for his
action frustration by some of his
colleagues in the administration of
departments and hostility towards him
by some members of his j&rty. A short
time ago he was censured by caucus for
criticising Lands and Works Minister
Reece and T. G. D’Alton, Government
leader in the Legislative Council, over
hospital-board appointments while he
was Acting Minister for Health. He was
summoned to a meeting of the State
executive, but did not attend.
• •
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove
announced on Thursday that he did not
intend to resign his commission, but
would ask the Governor for a dissolution.
He presumably will base his case on the
1955 amendment, claiming that as his
party received a majority of votes at the
last election it is entitled to retain office
until Parliament is dissolved. Such a
claim would be very weak. The sole
purpose of the amendment was to enable
government to be carried on when party
strengths in the House were equal. They
are no longer equal; the Liberals have a
clear majority and the Cosgrove Govern-
ment has been defeated on a censure
motion. It is in the Governor’s discretion
to grant a dissolution, but he is not likely
to do so until other means of forming a
Government are exhausted. The first
means of so doing would be to send for
Opposition-leader Jackson.
• •
One doesn’t as a rule look for word-
pictures in a Tariff Board report, but
they’re sometimes there. As, for example,
the latest report’s reference to the Export
Payments Insurance Corporation and
large planned drive for exports as “islets
of constructive action in a sea of
negation.”
• •
British Air-Marshal Broadhurst says
our Sabre jets haven’t a hope of stopping
a Vulcan delta-bomber. Air Minister
Townley says they have. Both aircraft are
still on the secret list, but it mightn’t be a
bad idea to give the Marshal and the
Minister the plane of their choice and let
’em fight it out. Then we’d all know.
Victorian enginedrivers are to stage a
24-hour strike on Melbourne Cup day as
a protest against Bolte’s decision to
abolish automatic adjustments on State-
awards. He’s budgeting for a loss of
£5,625,000 on the railways this year
(nearly million more than last year)
and that is one of the reasons for his
move. Deficits mean nothing to the rail-
way unions, who think Government trans-
port is run for the benefit of railwaymen.
As in thp case of the postal hold-up the
main sufferers on Cup Day will be the
general public.
• •
Because Vic. Country party objects to
private organisations of authorities on
zoology, outdoor recreation, flora and
fauna and the like running Victorian
national parks, the Bolte Government has
withdrawn its bill and instead will appoint
departmental officers. The Country party
wants bureaucrats to control the parks.
They can tell bureaucrats what to do.
• •
Eddie Ward told the striking postal-
workers that the Federal Parliamentary
PHILOSOPHER AND PENFRIEND
“Labor” party would support them in
their “struggle for wage-justice.” Mean-
time his leader Dr. Evatt was saying that
“Labor” would oppose the increased
postal charges announced in the Federal
Budget. Eddie and Bert should get to-
gether and devise a neat plan for paying
the posties the extra two quid a week
they’re demanding by reducing charges
which the P.M.G. claims aren’t high
enough to cover the present wages-biil.
• •
Former Austrian nationals who were
forced to leave Austria for religious or
political reasons between March, 1933,
and March, 1938, are to be paid com-
pensation by the Austrian Government.
New Australians who are entitled to
claim should write to the Austrian
consulate in Melbourne.
• •
At the fifth World Power Conference
held in Vienna last month Sir Harold
Hartley, leader of a British delegation of
400, said in his presidential address that
although the discovery of nuclear-power
had come at a most timely moment, it
was wrong to think that it had solved
world energy problems fdr all time; it
was still in an early stage of experimental
development. But he thought it possible
that by 1975 “perhaps 50 per cent, of the
intake of energy may be distributed in
this form. Nuclear-power stations will
soon begin to take the place of the fossil-
fuels —coal, oil and natural gas.” How-
ever, these would still be badly needed
for other purposes, for many of which
nuclear power cpuld not replace them.
• •
“Stromlo”: Political commentators
in Canberra have been conjecturing about
the future of John Burton since his
pamphlet advocating coexistence ffnd co-
operation between the Socialists and the
Communists “in* the cause of world
peace.” One observer claims the more
moderate rank-and-file are so frightened
of the impact of these views on the public
that the “little Doc.” is unlikely to get the
juicy job which had been lined-up for
him in the N.S.W. party organisation
(which these days, of course, wouldn’t
sound like a permanency). Another
believes that Clyde Cameron’s endorse-
ment of Burton, and the approval of
several influential members of the Federal
caucus, may lead to strong support for the
man and his opinions. Burton’s booklet is
called “The Light Glows Brighter.” Cer-
tainly its reddish glow is revealing more
and more of what has recently been taking
place in murky darkness.
• o
“In the ACT”: Business in the civil-
aviation world seems to move at jet speed.
It was no sooner announced that Qantas
was to buy seven American Boeings
powered by Pratt-and-Whitney engines
than the Rolls-Royce people put on show
in England their “Conway by-pass turbo-
jet,” which is to power versions of the
American DC9 and the 707 (Boeings).
Air Minister Townley didn’t seem very
happy about the announcement that Boe-
ings would be bought, which followed the
8.0.A.C. decision to buy Britannias, but
he claimed it would keep Australia in the
forefront of international aviation, pro-
vide an auxiliary air-transport command
of major defence-value, and mean less in
dollar-commitments than the annual earn-
ings of Qantas in the dollar-area. The
capital outlay, incidentally, will be £ 18.8-
million, which shows what a big business
flying is these days.
• •
“Mugga Way”: One of the
acknowledged abilities of the Doc. is
the manner in which he emerges from the
hottest of political water with little or no
sign of any scalding. It will be interesting
to see if he has passed,on the secret to
three of his former secretaries, now
engaged in a little political embroilment
inside the Canberra branch of the A.L.P.
One faction is led by Dr. John Burton,
reported to be anxious to gain selection
over Jim Fraser, M.H.R., and the opposi-
tion by Bill Byrne, now a public servant,
who had a row with the Doc. some time
ago. The triangle is completed by the
reported appointment of Joe Fitzgerald, a
former M.P. and now Evatt’s secretary, to
investigate the feud and to report to some-
one or other about it. In the meantime
it is suggested that Fraser, who has been
more or less neutral so far in the faction-
fight between Groupers and non-
Groupers, may soon have to' declare
himself.
• •
Two brothers aged 10 and 12 from the
Sydney suburb of Miller’s Point are to
receive £lO by <prder of the Minister
for Customs. They borrowed a boat to
retrieve a carton they had seen under a
wharf, and on opening it found more
than 4000 American cigarettes, worth
nearly £4O. The reward was in apprecia-
tion of help in detecting an attempted
smuggling offence.
' • •
Pearlshell won by Australian con-
cerns in the season which finished at the
end of January was worth £776,894 for
the 1301 tons; most of it was exported,
including 70 per cent, to the U.S. for
useful dollars. W.A. produced 652 tons,
Queensland 502 tons, and the Northern
Territory 139 tons, the average price
being £597 per ton. Queensland also
produced 939 tons of trochus-shell, valued
at £343,930. There are 1584 men in
the industry, including 1195 Torres
Straits islanders, 152 aborigines, 61 Euro,
peans, *l6B Japanese, 95 Malays, 63
Chinese, 38 Indonesians and 24 Ryuk-
yuans. It’s building up a useful little
industry.
•\ •
If the reported find of bauxite on the
Carpentaria side of Cape York Peninsula
comes up to expectations—such finds
seldom do —it will be a great thing for
Australia. The Bell Bay aluminium plant
depends on Malayan bauxite.
• ■%
• • •
/
Cosgrove’s request for a dissolution instead of
advising the Governor to send for the Leader
of the Opposition repeats Tasmanian political
history of 42 years ago. In April, 1914, a
Liberal Government fed by A. E. Solomon was
defeated in the Assembly and Solomon asked
the Governor, Sir William Ellison-Macartney,
for a dissolution. This was refused, and the
Governor sent for Labor Oppositiorr-leader
John Earle. He asked Earle to form a Govern-
ment, but attached conditions to his acceptance,
mainly that an immediate dissolution should
take place and that a new Parliament should
meet before the end of May. Earle accepted the
commission, but then wrote to the Governor
submitting that the exaction of such a pledge
was contrary to practice and that circumstances
did not justify a dissolution. He pointed out
that the Governor was, in effect, asking him to
accept responsibility for advice tendered by a
former Premier who no longer enjoyed the
confidence of Parliament and which Earle could
not endorse.
Ellison-Macartney replied that Earle, by
accepting office, had accepted the responsibility
for his act; he and his colleagues had had the
fullest opportunity of considering the conditions
before acceptance.
A resolution of the House of Assembly then
“respectfully expressed the opinion” that the
Governor’s action was contrary to well-
established usage of responsible government and
asked his Excellency to send copies of all
documents to the Secretary of State for the
Colonies. This was done, and in due course
the Secretary of State told Ellison-Macartney
politely but firmly that he was not entitled to
impose such a condition on an incoming
Ministry. The rebuke was tempered a little by
saying that by accepting office Earle had accepted
for the time being full responsibility for the
Governor’s action. However, his responsibility
had ceased as soon as the new Ministry deter-
mined to advise in a contrary sense, when the
policy of dissolution ceased to be authorised
by Ministerial advice and became merely the
Governor’s personal opinion.
There was no dissolution. The Earle Govern-
ment remained in office until defeated at air
election in 1916. Ellison-Macartney continued as
Governor until 1917.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WI TH WI MBLES INKS'
CJIR ARTIE’S Budget announcement
of an increase in the cost of radio-
listeners’ licences will probably result in
a few more sets going under the bed when
the bush-telegraph announces that the
inspector is in the district. Queenslanders
appear to take full advantage of the
mobility of their radios. Latest issue of
the Queensland Pocket Year Book says
there are only 293,542 wireless-licences
in a State where 115,000 new dwellings
have been erected in the past 10 years.
The wireless-licences number about
14,000 fewer than the number of motor-
vehicles on the roads.—“Rix.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ymar”: The winner of the best-and-
fairest award in our Victorian district
football league had only been put out £or
two Saturdays on a charge of striking
an opponent.
♦> ■>;<■
“Wicker”: A Sydney man doing his
Sunday deep-sea fishing saw the American
squadron on its way to the Heads. “They
waved to me,” he said, “and when I was
driving a friend home to Randwick, there
were those Yank sailors at Peter’s Corner
already.”
❖ * *
“Wusslean”: An old two-story build-
ing in Victoria-parade, East Melbourne,
"I'm NOT going back to Sydney, Gertie. I've decided to devote the
rest of my life to these simple people .”
now converted to shops and living-
quarters, has a shield carved in stone
over the main doorway with the words:
“Ich Dien.” The inscription had me
puzzled until I noticed the almost-
obliterated “Entrance to Bar” beside the
door. In Melbourne’s good old days, it
"I've been here a full ten minutes and you haven't noticed my new hat."
seems, a publican was proud to announce
“I serve.”
♦♦+ <«• ❖
“J.D.W.”: Long after the frenzied
commentaries on the Springbok tour of
New Zealand cease vibrating in the void
broadcasting viziers will shudder over
the confession in a national hook-up
immediately after the final Test that
someone was “absolutely b d.” Still,
as the commentator remarked, he spoke
“right from the heart” —and there is
more joy among listeners over one such
lapse than over a thousand-and-one
impeccable broadcasts. «
“Nunk”: The downward march of
men’s suede shoes has been joined by
flvis (“The Pelvis”) Presley—he wears
lue suede shoes. When I was young
the pointed patent-leathers of the diplo-
mat arrived at the milkman and walked
out of the picture—l wouldn’t be sur-
prised to see them sauntering back on
the feet pf the mighty.
%
“Zorok”: The four-man British weight-
lifting team for the Olympic Games com-
prises those sturdy Anglo-Saxons P.
Caira, Julian Creus, Maurice Megennis
and Ben Helfgoot.
“C.P.G.”: A Melbourne camera and
optical shop made capital of its burglary
with a sign plastered over the hole in
the window: “Even Burglars Know
Where the Best Cameras Are.” It remains
for some shopkeeper to capitalise a fire
—or have they thought of this?
* ❖
“Lorna Doone”: A simple soul who
had been trying to get evidence for a
divorce from his wife, he rang his
solicitor and said he had a signed con-
fession. The lawyer said he would like
to see it, as it sounded all right. “Yes,”
agreed the simple soul, “I know the
importance of having things in black-
and-white. Do you think it will make
any difference that she’s written this in
red Biro?”
❖ ♦♦♦ *X*
“Pip”: Now that a service-station in
the Geelong (Vic.) district is considered
worthy of official opening by a mayor,
the next truckload of potatoes should
be accorded a city procession and a
public holiday.
A ,
“Curio”: A couple of years ago, “Ceg”
(B. 5/9/’56), I saw a neat little folded
card bearing the inscription: “Who says
that the ’Wales never gives away
samples?” Inside was a bright new
threepenny-piece.
♦♦♦
“Doormat”: Roubles and rupees,
dollars and lire, francs and two-bobs,
too —the only bank in the Olympic
Village at Heidelberg, the A. and N.Z.
has designed a smart-looking outfit
flying flags of all nations. This Babel-
bank will bear notices in all languages ;
there will be provision for minding
jewellery or spare money, and maybe
hats. The firm sent an officer to the
Games at Helsinki, and so can hold any
prized possession for an athlete except
his records.
* *
“Maitri”: With the City of Sydney
Eisteddfod almost on top of us again
I’m reminded of an adjudi-
cator who for an afternoon was
shrieked - at, screamed - at,
bawled-at, implored and softly
wooed by sopranos who all
sang Johann Strauss’s “Voices
of Spring.” In despair when,
he discovered that he would
have to hear even more
“Voices of Spring” after tea,
he sought out a cafe as far
from the hall as time allowed. The first
course looked delicious, but no sooner
had he taken the first v mouthful than it
turned to sawdust: the small orchestra
had tuned-up and embarked upon—you
know!
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Willie Willie”: An auction-placard
for building-sites on the Yarra Boulevard
at Kew (Vic.) has a direction-arrow point-
ing straight upwards. It would need a
helicopter to follow the arrow and top
the cutting.
»I« *j»
“Simon”: In the old days I often saw
people chase a horse a mile or so to
saddle it and ride it half-a-mile. The
other morning at Sydney’s Anzac-parade,
Moore Park, I counted some 40 cars city-
bent. The only passenger in most of
them was the driver, sometimes a woman.
Any one of them would not have had
to walk more than three- or four-hundred
yards to a tram or bus, yet it took some
800 horse-power to bring 50 people to
business or shopping.
❖ ❖ *
“Fitz”: “Just now,” said Christine, “I
would like to be holding a party with all
the girls in Thomas-street” “No
boys?” I interrupted. “No boys,” said
Christine. “They’re too messy, and I’d
like lots of cakes with
hundreds-and-thousands on
them, chocolate biscuits,
lollies, ice-cream, lemonade
and balloons and jazz-caps
and double-bungers and sky-
rockets.” Warming to the
subject, Christine went on:
“Some grandfathers are
awfully kind to their grand-
children. Sylvia’s grand-
father gave her a party with
a Punch and Judy show, a
circus clown and two Shet-
land ponies ; Kareen’s grand-
father” “Sylvia’s grand-
father,” I countered promptly,
“is a bookmaker, and
Kareen’s grandfather owns a
picture-show. What do you
say if I settle for a bottle of
Coca-cola and a ride on the
merry-go-round?” “Are you
broke?” asked Christine.
“Busted,” I said. “Ah, well,”
sighed Christine philosophic-
ally. “I suppose a girl can’t
have everything.”
“Nobs”: He shuffled to intercept me:
“Eh, George! Could y’ oblige me with
fourpence?” I gave him the fourpence
I had in my hand ready to buy an
evening-paper. After all, why should
anyone be deprived of catching-up on his
choice of the daily violence, I thought.
He shuffled off. But now lam not so
sure that he intended buying a news-
paper. About a fortnight later, in another
part of Sydney, the same figure cruised
alongside me, seemingly from nowhere
and, with the exact same introduction,
asked for /zvepence—neither reason in it,
nor consistency. All of which has disap-
pointed me with Sydney urgers. In
Melbourne last year a similar urger, for
a mere threepenny-bit, tipped me two
prospective winners for the following
Saturday.
♦> .
“Hilda”: Mention of the bogged-
down roll-on girdle (B. 5/9/’56) reminded
me of Ogden Nash’s definition of the
perfect husband, who r
tells you when you’re wearing too much
lipstick,
And helps you with your girdle when your
hipstick.
❖ ❖ A
“Ex-Ped”: The English public-school
custom of addressing colleagues,
acquaintances and pupils by their sur-
names (B. 29/8/’56), intimate friends by
Christian-name or nickname and business
acquaintances as “Mr. So-and-so” was
followed in Australian secondary schools
for many years. I have heard a senior
master tell a junior colleague, “I wish you
wouldn’t Mister me ; I’m not your banker
or your tailor,” and I remember two
instances when too-familiar masters were
politely rebuked by pupils: “Sir, if you
call me Michael I shall have to call you
Teacher,” and, “Smithy? Smithy? The
name, sir, is Brown-Smith.”
“Agogue”: N. S. Wales State schools
now surnames —part of an effort to
bridge the distinction between State and
private schools.
❖ * *
“Willpar”: When I was a child our
next-door neighbors employed a cook;
this week they are giving her a party to
celebrate her 30-years’ unbroken service.
No doubt some homestead cooks could
better this performance, but this must
surely be a record in the city. Any
challengers? Wives ineligible!
HOPE AT LAST
“Sir Bernard Heinze, on taking over director-
ship of the N, S. Wales Conservatorium,
emphasised that appreciation of music and its
practice must not be divorced: ‘We must beware
the gramophile.’ ”
Happy the man whom Art refines
Above the gramophile,
Performing for Sir Bernard Heinze
In his own domicile.
Sir Bernard, if you’re seeking data
On hoSndmade beaux arts,
Come to my house for a sonata
Of Wolfgang Mozart’s:
That with the rondo —how d’ you say it ?
The “Alla Turca” ;
My wife will never let me play it,
It seems to irk her —
Nor can I give the Minuet
Sufficient brio,
But none who hears me will forget
My Trio.
I do the Variations, all
Except the last;
It goes, Sir Bernard, you’ll recall,
A little fast . . .
The other variations, though,
1 vary, sir,
So well that Mozart wouldn’t know
What they were —
Some other time ? You’re busy, eh ?
Yes, life is short —
Though time means nothing when l play
The pianoforte.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
“When duty takes you far away
'And we by cruel miles are parted,
Please write to me each lonely day !’’
You pleaded with me, broken-hearted.
I did; but I renounce my vow,
Finding that value is the better
Part of my discretion now,
l balk at fourpence, sweet, per letter!
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


TYURING a sensational murder trial in
Christchurch (N.Z.) two men were
escorted through the streets by two police-
men wearing anxious looks as if fearful
their charges might make a getaway or
communicate with the curious public—
two sporting jurymen, denied attendance
at the trots at Addington racecourse, being
taken to the nearest Totalisator Agency
Board shop to place bets.—“Uramao.”
*X* ❖
“Hi-Fy”: Motor-vehicles to popula-
tion will soon make it possible for all
South Australians to be on wheels at the
one moment. Unwanted obsolete bombs
are being abandoned in the street.
Vehicles accumulate in council-depots
awaiting owners who have no intention
of paying an impounding-fee and weekly
storage-charge which in many cases
would exceed the value of the job as
scrap-metal. Demand for spares of
ancient models is fast disappearing ; the
cost of dismantling outweighs any
possible profit on sale of parts. It seems
that a dump will have to be established as
in the U.S.A.
++♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Keem”: The basket-cover our bread-
carter uses is a piece of grey plastic
smeared with small , patches of white
where he swipes the grey off with a
clammy hand, revealing the original
color. But our bread is already wrapped
in a kind of rubberised leather. You
can’t cut it without a razor-edge to the
knife; yOu can’t chew it or pull it apart.
It just stretches. The tops of the loaves
are always burnt black, or at best a thick,
dried-up nigger-brown. Chips fly when
you cut off the top of the loaf. The
carter replied to a query: “No, they’re
all the same. What’s more, people ought
to go and git their bread. I don’t reckon
it ought to be delivered at all.”
♦♦♦ *> ❖
“Vipgter”: Those car number-plates
from southern States seen in Queen-street,
Brisbane (B. 29/8/’56): Holidaying up
there (my former home-city), I fell for my
brother-in-law’s suggestion that we should
swap cars. He said he’d like the experi-
ence of driving another make of car, and,
since his was a swisher model than mine,
I had no objections until on my first day
in the city I was keelhauled by traffic-
policemen. Earlier in the week they had
noted my Victorian registration and
smilingly allowed me a wealth of parking-
latitude. Brother-in-law grinned when I
demanded my car back. In addition to a
new sociability of traffic-cops, while he
sported the Victorian number-plate he
had enjoyed unimpeded runs through
traffic, the locals, awake-up to Mel-
bourne drivers, having accorded him the
widest of berths.
“Pioneer Paddy”: During the postal
workers’ regulation-strike which has dis-
organised Tasmania for months the pay-
cheques of a number of young women
attending the Teachers’ Training College
in Launceston have been arriving a week
late. The first time this happened one
girl showed real genius ; she was stony,
and, the pay not arriving, her girl-friend
at the hostel couldn’t repay the £1 she
had borrowed. The lass had set her heart
on attending a ball that night; admission
was 35., and, to make matters worse, coats
had to be left at .the cloak-room, which
cost another 3d. Her entire worldly
wealth amounted to 2s. llfd. So she went
round the hostel until she found a girl
writing letters, and she sold her a stamp,
“D.J.G.”: Since postal-workers began
their regulation-strike several accounts
have been returned to my office bearing
the notification “Mailed contrary to the
regulations.” They conformed to the
regulations when posted, but the invoices
being slightly narrower than the envelopes
a small movement of the contents had
taken place ; in all cases the address was
clearly legible or needed at the most a
gentle tap to bring it directly opposite
the “window.” Such manipulation is
evidently illegal; the postal officials must
go to the trouble of stamping the envelope
with the warning notice and returning
it to the sender. We’ve simply bunged
the returns in fresh envelopes and mailed
them off again, thus adding to the volume
of mailings and the labors of the postal
nrecisionists
P
* * *
“Doynest”: Thieves who broke into
a Balwyn (Vic.) printing-office didn't
bother to open a cashbox, but went off
with 2000 copies of a booklet which had
been prepared by the Police Department
for free distribution to hoffies through-
out the State, a last stand, evidently,
against Crime Prevention. *
* <* *
„ T , „ r . . .. ,
Becks : I m all for international co-
operation, but I still can t help feeling it s
a bit screwy when an American song
called ‘ The Portuguese Washerwoman is
top of an Australian hit-parade.
* * *
“Peter Simple”: When the Australian
Test cricket-team went abroad the A.B.C.
showered praise on the players, indi-
vidually and collectively; but since their
failure to win the Ashes and their poor
showing against county teams it has
begun to refer to them as the “Australian
tourists.”
“Doric”: The C. and A. Stores from
which the Russian woman-athlete
allegedly lifted the lids cater for the
lower-income group and are often the
butt of the London music-halls. Many
Englishwomen speak of these emporiums
with scorn, but they do a tremendous
business. My wife dragged me into the
hat-department of the Oxford-street store
—never did I imagine that there were so
many .women’s hats - in the world. She
got a wonderful bargain (according to
her) for 55.; it was the envy of all her
friends on her return to Australia, so
she didn’t spoil their pleasure by divulg-
ing the price.
“Jasby”: Twelve-year-old son, just
back from his first holiday on a farm,
was full of the differences between city
and country life. “And their jam!” he
said. “They don’t get it in little tins and
jars like we do. They buy seven-pound
tins. And is John keen on it! He told
me they’re going to try and get it in
forty-four-gallon drums, he likes it so
mU ch.” I suggested that John had been
pulling his leg, but he wouldn’t have it.
“Ho,” he said, “he meant it, all right,
They get their petrol in forty-four-gallon
drums already.”
*
*
“Sir Jay”: After ten years of married
life, I am still baffled by Lady Jay’s logic,
Going through her wardrobe she suddenly
pulled out a frock: ‘This frock doesn’t
owe me a thing. It cost me five-pounds
four years ago and it will do for another
two years.” The dress was new to me.
“How many times have you worn that ?
She said “Twice. After putting her
hotwater-bottle in bed she potters about
the room in her bare feet on the cold lino
(we can’t afford wall-to-wall). Asked
why she doesn’t get into bed, she says,
“I’m getting my feet really cold so that 1
«“». appreciate the hotwater-bottle "
gS S’tTr'WeU-t’itf*
logical, isnt it. W
* * *
“Sixtoes”: He had no thought of pry-
ing into the family-life of his pupils
when he wrote on the blackboard.
“Correct this sentence: Mother asked
John and I to chop some wood.” But one
of the class gave the game away: “Me
d j ohn tokl Mum to chop some wood.”
* * **
“Maitri”: During the last war an
Austrian refugee-friend was in the
throes of a telephone-conversation with
a fellow-exile when a peremptory voice
interrupted her with, “If you don’t speak
j D English you will be cut off at once!”
My friend was bitterly affronted ; draw-
ing herself out to her full width, she
riposted in indignation: “But we are
speaking ze Eengleesh! ”
* *** *
“Kate”: My husband opened his mail
and saw, addressed to himself, a cheque
for £lOOO. With it was a letter stating
that the cheque could be cashed right
there and then—simply had to endorse
it on the back and return to the sender,
whereupon they would, free of charge
and without any obligation, send informa-
tion that would enable him *to increase
his truck’s payload and decrease his
running-costs. This novel ad. had results,
all right—they couldn’t be printed here,
A A
v
“Rimutuka”: Someone round our way
could teach Grandma to suck eggs! A
customer bought a dozen of the best from
the counter-display at the corner-shop.
When she got home she discovered one
was an empty shell, pierced each end with
a pin and sucked clean. Grocer vows
the crime must have been committed
while his back was turned.
THE TRIALS OF AUTOMATION
-An exhibit at a meeting of the British
Physical Society was a robot named Eucrates L,
which, in a demonstration, played a game with
its teacher, memorising for future reference.
Then it developed ‘examination nerves’ like
schoolchildren, and panicked.”
You share with Man a brain; but, Euc.,
don’t flatter
Yourself it’s quite the, equal of his
own.
You couldn’t match the way that his
grey matter
Works in its confines of protecting
bone.
Could you, Euc., ever become so vastly,
clever
As to make laws, with loopholes by
the score,
Or concentrate your very best endeavor
(Though it must make you poorer) by
for ever
Waging a war?
Your ersatz brain, Euc., scarcely could
encompass
Pleasures which Man the Wonder can
devise:
Listening to radio-serials, or the rumpus
Where politicians attitudinise ;
Trying to build a fortune from a dollar
By taking doubles on the mokes or
mongs ;
Working in an uncomfortable collar;
Lauding the loud "sport,’’ sneering at the
scholar ;
Enriching Bungs.
It’s best, then, Euc., to know your
limitations;
One purpose you were built for —
helping Man
In making mathematic calculations.
No wonder there’s a pained look on
your pan!
No wonder, too, when for examination
You stand, that the equivalent of
nerves
You suffer. You have our commisera-
tion.
Well do we know, Euc., all that agitation,
How it disserves !
Your wires are taut, like strings strung
on a fiddle ;
You feel as if you’re going to blow
your lights;
Butterfly-flut terings are in your middle,
Until the simplest thing you’re asked
affrights ;'
You fuse your valves; your springs sag
in your flurry ;
You get the feeling that you’re just a
dolt.
Intolerably hot you deem this curry ! •
The worse you get the more you try to
hurry.
So, Euc., do this (and thus skip all the
worry):
Your nut —and bolt!
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Cabinet in Victoria has appointed
Judge Frank Nelson to hold an open
inquiry into Langi Kal Kal (an experi-
mental training-farm) and recent escapes
from it. He is one of the more-recent
appointments' made to strengthen the
County Court, and he has succeeded in
what he set out to do —to preside over
friendly courts. Although he keeps a firm
control on wayward counsel, the lean and
alert judge seldom interjects, except to
keep the court to the point.
He won a senior scholarship from
Scotch College to the Uni., was “Farrago”
editor, and later one of the comparatively
few young Young Nats. He made his
name in the whispering jurisdiction,
equity, a seckuded world among the trees
of knowledge, logic and law.
Melburnians, though, know him best
as the successful prosecutor in the Kerr
murder trial in 1950, a crime of young
passion in which two juries refused to
convict, and which is now being tried
again (and again) in one morning daily.
• •
Maurice Bernard Benn becomes, at
41, Reader and head of the newly
created Department of German in the
Westralian University, from which he
received his B.A. with first-class honors
in German in 1938. His academic score
includes the Hackett studentship (1939),
post-graduate work in Zurich and London
(1946-48) and the London M.A. From
1949 to 1951 he was studying and
lecturing in Germany. Since 1951 he has
been senior lecturer in German and 9
Modern Languages in the Westralian
University.
• •
Like many of the Melbourne clan,
Tom McKay, who pumped-up 30 years
with Vacuum on September 1, has been
associated with Yarra rowing for most of
his life ; he was a University blue and
still takes an interest in Mercantile, but,
like a sensible over-fifty, takes his exer-
cise at Commonwealth golf-course. He’s
been very much at home at Vacuum,
which has the reputation of being one of
the happiest offices in the nation, but he’s
been abroad a bit, too: managerial posts
in Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, North Queens-
land and Brisbane, and missions to the
U.S. and Hawaii. He joined the
directorate in 1954.
• ' •
Caught aboard his lugger in Cairns by
Such, here is John Beresford Leslie,
architect turned trochus- and pearl-
fisher. One-time acquaintance of Percy
Lindsay, Ted Scorfield and Raynor Hoff,
he worked with Bruce Dellert, designer
of the Hyde Park memorial. Son of
the Dr. Jim Leslie who was Government
M.O. in Newcastle, he was educated at
Shore, played football for them, won the
open-heavy boxing, represented them in
that capacity for the Far Northern
Districts in 1930-31, won the Newcastle
Surf Club 100yds. championship and
represented in Northern Districts surf-
championships. A loot in tjie New
Guinea Native Infantry Battalion in War
11, he came out of it with a bad dose of
TROCHUS FISHER
malaria that incapacitated him for a
year. Then, in 1946, he started trochus-
fishing, liked the life, and now, with 15
native divers, works the Reef from
Mackay to Torres Straits. The lugger is
a 50-footer, the Indian Reefer.
Now on his way to the U.K., Edward
Maslen, Westralian Rhodes Scholar for
1956, who received the good news after
spending last November on the danger-
list at Royal Perth Hospital—he spiked
a foot running, and tetanus followed.
B.Sc. (1952) and M.Sc. (1954), Maslen
was president of the Guild of Under-
graduates this year. He will enter St.
John’s College to put in two years on
X-ray work for the Oxford D.Sc.
• • '
Off to the United States last week, for
a three-month look-see at parent-company
activities there, D. G. Stranger, Cater-
pillar of Australia’s advertising-manager.
• •
Wilfred John Simmonds, appointed
Professor of Physiology at the Westralian
University at the ripe age of 38, takes up
his new job in December. Lured away
from his investigations of the lymphatic
system at Sydney’s Kanematsu Institute,
he revealed himself as a modest chap,
genuinely puzzled by the interest taken
in his career, particularly in Brisbane.
He’s from that part of the world, son
of Wickham Terrace gynaecologist and
obstetrician J. Lloyd Simmonds, and he
took the science degree, as well as M. 8.,
8.5., at Queensland University. Was in
the R.A.A.F. Research Unit at Melbourne
University and elsewhere, then served
PHYSIOLOGIST
with Df. Duhig as Lecturer in Pathology
at his old university. Won Nuffield
Scholarship to Oxford, where he was
associated with Professor Liddell and
Queensland Rhodes Scholar, Dr. Courtice,
and became an Oxon. Ph.D. in 1950.
Since then he’s been researching at the
Kanematsu Institute. At different times
he has been interested in the function of
the lymphatic system in drainage from the
brain and from the chest and lungs. For
the past few years he’s been interested in
the part the l.s. plays in the absorption of
materials (mainly fats) from the intestine.
Apart from teaching, he hopes to continue
this research at the Westralian University.
• •
“Uramao”: Admitted as a Professor
Emeritus of Victoria University College,
Wellington (N.Z.), of which he has been
a member for 35 years, Edwin John Boyd-
Wilson, erstwhile Professor of Modern
Languages. Born at Leeston, Canterbury
(N.Z.), 70 years*ago,’educated at Nelson
and Canterbury Colleges and Cambridge-
polished, Boyd-Wilson taught school-
children at Antwerp and Sydney, and
was later a lecturer at the Westralian
University.
• 0
General Motors is sending two young
Melburnians, an adopted Melburnian and
an Adelaide young man to work in its
U.S. plants and to study at its Flint
Institute for two years. Melburnians are
Barry Dundas, a writer on experimental
engineering, and Robert Corbett, a
metallurgist; the New Melburnian is
Dobroslav Benes —veteran of the quartet
at 30 —a design-draughtsman from
Prague. Brian Mitton, a draughtsman at
Woodville, is the South Australian.
G.M.-H. instituted the scholarships seven
years ago, and 19 Australians already
have made the trip. Most of the senior
executives at Fishermen’s Bend in Mel-
bourne are Americans.
•
“Seahawk”: The ashes of Captain
Robert Smibert were scattered over
Moreton Bay the other day, settling on
the waters through which he had piloted
many ships. Before becoming a Brisbane
pilot he was for many years mate and
master in Howard Smith’s steamers ; up
and down the coast, from Cairns to
Adelaide, there was no more popular
visitor. A real seaman of the old school,
bluff and hearty, able and courageous.
In the early ’thirties he arrested a
Japanese sampan in Torres Straits, and
almost precipitated *an international
incident. Shortly after the war both
legs had to be amputated because of
gangrene, but, game as ever, he got
about on an artificial pair, and even
learned to drive a car. Then total blind-
ness set in: only those who had been
shipmates with him and knew him really
well could comprehend the tragedy of
the half-life that was left to him.
• •
Last of the important appointments in
the Victorian Electricity Commission is
William Price as No. 2 to Willis Connolly.
Another of the six-footers the commission
seems to generate, Price has lately been
commercial-manager, supervising all the
commission’s activities outside the
engineering departments; he’s been in
many sections during his 36 years in ihe
Melbourne office. Plays golf at Rivers-
dale, and bowls at Glen Iris ; but he’s not
seeded No. 2 on either of those greens.
• • '
\
“Allan B.”: The Church of England
in Australia is sending a team of two
archbishops, two bishops, two priests and
two laymen to visit Communist China, at
the invitation of the Chinese sister-church:
Primate of Australia and Archbishop of
Sydney Dr. H. W. K. Mowll and Mrs.
Mowll; Archbishop J. Moline (Perth);
Bishop J. Housden (Rockhampton);
Bishop G. F. Cranswick (Tas.); Canon
M. L. Loane (Principal, Moore Theo-
logical College, Sydney); Canon H. M.
Arrowsmith (Australian secretary, British
and Foreign Bible Society); and F. James
(editor, “The Anglican,” Sydney). They
plan to fly from Sydney to Hong. Kong
on October 28.
• •
The Melbourne Royal Show opens
tomorrow (Thursday), and a ton of
responsibility comes firmly to rest on the
shoulders of Thomas Norman Mitchell,
president of the Royal Agricultural
Society of Victoria since 1953.
It’s been there all the time, really: as
thby’ll tell you, around the “Royals,”
“Before this one’s over we start preparing
for the next.” Always a position of
honor, of late years the president’s job
has become more and more one demand-
ing an expenditure of time and energy
which, translated into commercial terms,
would call for the highly-paid services
of a top-flight executive. The “Royals”
get all this for nothing: what’s more—
although one never hears a complaint on
this score —councillors and presidents,
with their many trips on Show business,
must be well out of pocket on the deal
An old A.F.C. man (3rd Squadron),
Tom Mitchell’s shoulders are adequate.
Regarding one aspect of his character, a
former R.A.S. (New South Wales)
SHOW PRESIDENT
executive tells an engaging story. In
the midst of a Sydney Royal, buzzing
around like mad, the official was waylaid
by an oversea visitor with a request for
information about the machinery
exhibits. Not wishing to be brusque, but
busy as blazes, the official hailed the
passing Victorian president. Whereupon
Mitchell, taking-in the situation in a flash,
gave the visitor his undivided attention ;
leaving him tremendously impressed by
the standard of courtesy and knowledge
on tap at the Sydney Show. Apart from
his official status, Mitchell was well up
on the subject—he’s head of the agricul-
tural - equipment manufacturing - firm,
Mitchell and Co. Pty., Ltd. But the
incident illustrates something else —the
kind of friendly liaison which exists
between the various “Royals.”
• •
, After helping to keep Victorians (and
Tasmanians, for a time) in touch by
telegram, telephone, radio, picturegram,
and lately by television, Herbert Mclvor
has left the P.M.G. outfit. He began as
a telegram-boy in Coburg and took up
the newfangled inventions for the depart-
ment as they came along over the
decades. Newspaper picture-editors and
radio-executives in Melbourne, in particu-
lar, are sorry to see him go: he’s given
them first-class service with on-the-spot
pictures from overseas and radio hook-
ups throughout the nation. At 65, he
still plays tennis. Was a B-pennant
player for Essendon and A-grade in
Tasmania.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 74, Colonel Charles Henry Lamb,
0.8. E., M.C., who served with the 28th Bn. and
44th Bn. in the Kaiser’s war, commanded the
44th Bn. (C.M.F.) and later the 13th Mixed
Brigade between wars, and was back in harness
as C.O. troops on transports between Australia
and the Middle East in World War 11. Founda-
tion-president of Perth Legacy, on the R.S.L.
State Executive for several years, served a term
as R.S.L. State president, retired head of a Perth
accountancy-firm, and former president of Perth
Chamber of Commerce.
At Bowen (Q.), at*Bo, Alfred Douglas Henry.
After he retired from banking he was Red Cross
appeals-director for Queensland in early War 11,
secretary of the Queensland Club, and —from
1949 to 1955 —Australian appeals-director for the
Liberal party. He joined the old Bank of Aus-
tralasia (now A.N.Z.) in 1892, opened branches
of the bank at Richmond, Crow’s Nest and
Hurstville (N.S.W.), managed the branch at
Newcastle and later the Brisbane branch.
In Adelaide, at 90, William Henry Gilbert,
thrice Mayor of Port Adelaide. On the Port
Adelaide police-court Bench for many years.
At 80, in Brisbane, J. P. Macfarlane, senior
partner in Hutton and Macfarlane, chartered
accountants, and for 50 years a member of the
R.N.A.
At Guildford (W.A.), at 56, Albany William
Padbury, livestock-breeder with an Australia-
wide reputation; in recent years manager of the
stud-stock department of a Perth pastoral-nrm.
At the Perth Royal he won the Governors Cup
11 times; and he had judged cattle at Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide.
In Perth, at 54, Robert Kenneth Alexander
Bruce, formerly chief surveyor in Johore Bahru,
Malaya. He had been living in Perth since
War 11, in which he served with the Bntish
Army.
At 86, at Ballarat (Vic.), W. J. NichoUs, who
began a half-century of printer’s ink on tne
Clunes “Guardian,” and was latterly printer c
the Ballarat “Courier.” Many Victorian towns
and papers between, and many activities
C.P.S.; registrar of births and deaths ano
assistant returning-officer at Berringa; on a
sorts of local committees; pioneer-member o
the Australian Natives’ Association.
At 77, at Bundaberg (Q.), Alfred L. Gibson,
chairman of the sugar-firm Gibson and How >
Bingera; he joined the company as a ji
field-officer around the turn of the century.




ABORIGNALITIES
'THEN there were the two hungry,
penniless bagmen who appealed for
succor at the homestead. The sympathetic
lady obliged with the request that the two
knights co-operate by cleaning her
carpets. They energetically began
lambasting them with a pick-handle. The
lady became curious when she saw one
baggie resting and the other putting on
a magnificent exhibition of acrobatics.
She became elated, and graciously asked
the reclining one, “Do you think your
friend would consider performing that
act at my C.W.A. party today?” “I doubt
it, lady,” the knight replied. “I don’t think
’e’d stand another belt like that with a
pick-’andle in the one day.”-“Half-
Dirty.”
* * * * ,
“E.A.H.”: For the first time in 10
years blue cranes have skipped their
spring visit to our Central Coast (N.S.W.)
district. Possibly they may have heard
about the better hunting-grounds in the
inland flood-areas. Personally, however,
I’ve a lurking suspicion that Blue’s disap-
pearance might have something to do with
a foreknowledge that the long succession
of lush seasons we have enjoyed is
ending.
* * * *
“Vafio”: ■ A fellow-toiler’s reference
to “a load of work that would kill an
elephant” sent me back 10 years to when
I was allegedly working for Nippon along
the Burma Road. On this project Siamese
elephants, much lighter than African
elephants, were literally worked to death ;
they frequently dropped dead in their
tracks. The Japs’ miscalculation of
elephant-power was especially puzzling
in that they had a nicely-calculated table
of elephant-man work-power ratios: one
elephant equalled six Australians, eight
Englishmen, 10 Indians and 12 Dutch-
men, a calculation which, though flatter-
ing, was not particularly pleasing to the
Digger prisoners.
* * * *
“ ’Herd”: As I overtook the steam-
roller on the flat, dusty outback Queens-
land road the driver made signs for me
to stop. I waited while he chugged
alongside. Leaning over the great steel
wheel, he yelled, “How far* is it to
Muckadingie?” I said, “Oh, about five
miles.” I never saw such a look of misery
pass so quickly over a man’s face. Had
I said the shire intended slashing his pay
he couldn’t have taken it harder. “Strike
me fat!” he yelled. “Why, miles back
there at the last mailbox the joker said
five. How can it still be five?” Well,
I didn’t intend making an argument over
it. “Could be four,” I remarked, “or
maybe a bit less. I never measured it.
I’ve been over it before —but what’s a
mile or two?” “Aw, it’s all right for
you,” says the driver ; “but I want to git
there tonight. There’s a dance on at
the school-of-arts. Be cripes,” he added,
“that is, if it is Friday night!”
* * * *
“Noah”: Swirlers of the gold-dish on
the old diggings these days are often
labelled “hard-working fools”; but here
the scorners are ill-informed. True, the
gold-jar seldom shows value for the
expended labor; but solitude is the
atmosphere for observation which sees
beneath the disguise of rough, gravelly
surfaces and shapeless, rangy trees a
colorful and interesting nature-wonder-
land. To have and use a gold-dish your-
self is to know that the tired, homeward-
trudging fossicker is one who has enjoyed
a day in a far less-crazy world than that
where he is heading.
* * * *
“Kros”: The planet Mars has been in
the news because it’s lately been at its
closest proximity to Earth, 35,160,000
miles away; and newspaper-reports have
usually had it that Mars is our “closest
planetary neighbor.*’ This is not true ;
Venus has the (dubious?) honor. The
shortest distance Venus is separated from
Earth is 24,600,000 -miles, some 10*
million miles closer; but unfortunately,
when only that far away, it hides itself
completely. When as near as it gets,
therefore, Venus cannot be given that
close scrutiny lately accorded Mars ; and,
'But people don't look like that!”
for that and other reasons, Venus, bright
object as it is in our skies on occasion,
is not nearly as familiar to astronomers
as is Mars.
* * * *
“Raygu”: How far can black snakes
and porcupines travel finder their own
steam? Cattle-ticks have been reported
on both these hosts in our district, and
we are a good 100 miles from tick-
country.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Evidently birds carry in
their small skulls both clock and
calendar. Try feeding some at a fixed
time every day; after a while they will
‘This is no benevolent show, Stousher—stop standing up for the
other bloke's rights.”
appear on your doorstep at exactly that
time. Also there’s a definite time-pattern
in the daily movements of birds about
their territory. Ev,en if we ascribe to
changing temperature the remarkable
regularity with which bird-migrants
arrive and depart, there are still plenty
of local instances of accurate long-range
time-awareness. Miners, thrushes and
fantails depart in July from the hill on
which I live. They move into more-
thickly-timbered country about two miles
away, where they eventually breed. The
honeyeaters return in February, the
songsters a month later, and the fly-
catchers not till May. The actual dates
of these arrivals and departures have
varied only slightly for several years.
* * * *
“Allan B.”: A church at’ Dubbo
(N.S.W.) has bought an old jail out that
way, at Ilford, to turn it into a new vestry.
For £l5O it is still cheaper than buying
new stone or bricks, and they" say the
stones will harmonise with the existing
church-building—in the prisoner’s song
“If I Had the Wings of an Angel,” no
doubt.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Bright in its black-and-
orange, the wasp v\as towing one of the
giant Arachnida over rough ground.
Apparently dead, the big grey spider was
a heavy load. I- hunted the wasp away
and shifted the spider back about 6ft.
along the trail. Back came Stripes,
buzzing angrily. He settled where he’d
left his victim, and for a while moved
about, evidently . bewildered. Searching
in ever-widening circles, he came at last
to the spider lying motionless. Stripes
propped in apparent alarm, and then
proceeded with great caution to stalk his
quiet quarry. For a minute or so he
moved around, sparring for an opening ;
then sprang and buried his lance up to
the hilt in the grey carcass. After that,
Stripes withdrew some distance and
waited. Finally, he stepped briskly for-
ward, seized the spider, gave a vigorous
heave and resumed his interrupted
travels.
* * * *.
' “Presto”: When I was young it was the
focal-point of the house. On it we heated
our flat-irons and the water for baths and
washing-up, boiled the kettle for tea, and
cooked the family spud. In it we pre-
served the fruits of the garden, and
baked the Sunday joint and all manner of
delicious pies, puddings and cakes, besides
warming our plates in it (and on frosty
nights our plates-of-meat). At it we
toasted our toast and our fingers while
the household cat stretched contented
against it. When we went to bed we
left the clothes-airer to keep it company,
and inside it a batch of kindling warming-
up for a quick take-off next morning . . .
My six-year-old, visiting an old-fashioned
kitchen, breathed with awe when he saw
it for the first time: “Go-osh! A wood-
stove ! ”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: A rainy day in the little
bush-town, and Mrs. Bigshot, a tennis
“rabbit,” failed to raise Exchange on the
old-style phone. But thinly, clearly, in
the small distance, by magicdl electrical
induction, she heard a feminine voice:
“My dear, she was furious! Down four-
love, I came up and beat her six-four!”
Followed an impassioned ball-to-racquet
resume of the glorious victory. “Furious”
hung on till the lonely, bitter end, and in
a torrid scene severed all diplomatic rela-
tions with her victor next ladies’ day. An
unlucky exchange-girl copped a third-
degree. Termites, eating the underground
cables, were not even suspected.
* * * *
“Spin”: In a radio-play a character
was caused to refer to alligators in our
North. To put the record straight, our
saurians are crocodiles, not alligators,
although there’s probably less difference
than many realise. Both belong to the
order Crocodilia, along with a couple of
dozen other members, and the principal
difference is in the teeth. Crocs, have 30
teeth, or fewer, in the lower jaw ; ’gators
have 34 or more. When a croc.’s mouth
is closed you can see the fourth tooth
from the front on each side of the bottom
jaw. These teeth fit into grooves in the
side of the top jaw. In ’gators they fit
into notches and can’t be seen. The
’gator’s snout is broader, but you couldn’t
distinguish between them at a distance,
and their habits are similar. I’ve never
seen a croc, further south than the Fitz-
roy River in W.A., and I believe their
southern limit on the other side of the
continent is a river of the same name in
Queensland. Any confirmation?
* * * *
THE wood-grub that had dropped from
the tree on to the black-ants’ nest
seemed in no particular hurry to depart
from such dangerous territory, and even
when the infuriated occupants of the
underground flats rushed upstairs rage-
fully waving their antennae the intruder
went on placidly chewing his cud or
.something. The O.C. called for
“Charge!” and I, a neutral “observer,' 5
can testify that Jhe top formic brass led
the serried ranks; he was the first to
fall back, after having been stopped in his
tracks’by some white fluid exuded by the
lone defender. A combined sortie fared
no bettersoon there was wild confusion,
with the “back ranks crying ‘Forward!
and the front ones crying ‘Back!’ The
niggers were in fearful case: some had
turned up their toes, others staggered off
holding their stomachs as if they had
severe dyspepsia. The rest took a quick
gander and, remembering suddenly an
urgent appointment under a distant
shrub, dwelt not on the order of their
going. As I departed the scene of the
one-sided affair the grub, with a bored sort
of look, was testing his segment-reflexes.
—“Bo.”
CHILDER’S COVE, BASS STRAIT
[The Hentys’ barque Children was wrecked at
Childer’s Cove on the night of Jan. 15, 1838,
with the loss of sixteen English men, women
and children.]
Limeflowers drifted through their home-
ward sleep,
Thatch tender to the sky, unthrusting hill,
Remembered furrows pared the curving
turf,
Gently their lumbering oakbrown giants
led
To quiet stables bricked in rose. The surf
Crashed through their exiled dream, white
rape of foam
Thrust cold on their breasted hills, wild
percherons reared,
The scented limeflowers blackened on the
sea,
The bent thatch hurst* in monstrous
resurrection —
They woke, from sleep to death a brevity
Of darkness, the blind run of fear, blacks
calling
—A mist of gargoyles in the plunging sky
On the cliff’s knifed rejection—the wind-
shock
Thrusting a salt gag in the. panic mouth, v
Night furrowing curved flesh on the
razored rock . . .
Hold my hand, small child on the cliff’s
edge,
—Their son’s ,starred printless fingers
could not hold,
Thesi unrepentant cliffs hurled back their
daughter,
Old terrors undertow the tide. 1 hear
Tossed voices searching down the scathing
rock,
And children screaming in the wild Straits
water.
vie.
JESSIE G. ALDRIDGE.


THINGS are not so good in many parts
of Victoria’s wheatgrowing district.
Continual heavy rains prevented a lot of
farmers from sowing crops at the right
time, and for most of those who did get
their seed in the reward does not seem
very promising, as yellowish weak shoots
try to survive in waterlogged ground. One
grower, however, never fails, and appears
to have the edge on those who use the
most up-to-date methods of production.
The grower concerned is Nature, whose
crop of wild plant-life has all the indica-
tions of a bumper-harvest. —“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Rimutuka”: In a letter to a very
urban friend I remarked on the vagaries
of the season, adding: “We are even
feeding our bees this year.” Back came
the reply, “Goodness me! You have got
your work cut out! I suppose you use
an eyedropper?”
* * * *
“Kelms”: A redgum tree that caught
alight during a bushfire at Manjimup
(sou’-Westralia) two years ago is still
burning, and the locals are calling it the
Olympic Torch and claiming a record. It
may be for a fire above ground; but
years back a fire that destroyed a crop in
the wheatbelt* was traced to a burning
root that had been smouldering since the
land was cleared three years previously.
That was whitegum, a hard timber, and
it left a trail of charcoal behind that
filled the space it had occupied. This
redgum’s a totally different proposition.
It has a dirty-grey wood —the name
stems from a red gum which it exudes,
and which the natives and early settlers
used as a cure for dysentery—and it’s
good burning. A redgum log will burn
away to a thin line of ash, without a sign
of charcoal.
* * * *
“Keem”: A Tasmanian, I combed
Sydney shops asking for “leatherwood”
honey, and at last unearthed a man in a
small health-food store who knew what
I was talking about. He said in all the
years he had been in Sydney no one had
ever mentioned it. He produced the real
thing packed in lib. blocks wrapped
in cellophane. Leatherwood - trees
apparently only grow on Tasmania’s
north-west coast. The flavor is of pure
flower-essence.
** l * - *
“Papalangi”: Like the chimps of
Nigeria, the monkeys of India, South-
east Asia and the East Indies have ample
opportunity of going on a jag with palm-
wine from jaggery-, ld-date-, palmyra-
or coconut-palms. Jaggery-palms are
widely grown in India for this purpose ;
from the sweet sap palm-toddy, the
distillate arrack, and jaggery-sugar are
obtained, a favored method of collecting
the juice being to cut off flower-spikes
and catch the drips. In places
Government intervention has been neces-
sary, as the natives’ craving for palm-
toddy has greatly reduced the coconut-
crop. There are jaggery-palms in some
of our botanic gardens, but curators
would be likely to discourage any
attempts at “moonlighting.”
“Mulloway”: Unless the botanical
top-brass have recently done some
drastic reclassification “Sevenelms” (B.
29/8/’56) should delete the kauri-pine
from his list of araucarias. The kauris
belong to the genus Agathis, species of
which are found in Queensland, the East
Indies, the New Hebrides and New
Caledonia, as well as New Zealand. The
dammar-gum of the East Indies is
obtained from Agathis {Dammara)
orientalis, and is almost identical with the
kauri-gum of N.Z. These trees are easily
distinguished from the araucarias by their
thick, leathery leaves, quite unlike the
short, stiff-spiked leaves of the araucarias,
which' get their name from Araucania, a
district of Chile, the home of the original
“monkey-puzzle tree” ( Araucaria imbri-
cata). One. that “Sevenelms” has omitted
from his list is Cook’s araucaria, a native
°f the New Hebrides,
*** \ *
,
“Leirum”: After a recent snowstorm
at Noojee (Vic.) 37 telephone-posts bent
double, thereby snapping lines and dis-
rupting all services in the area. Sheer
weight of snow on the lines has been
ruled out, since this would have caused
the posts to snap off cleanly instead of
bending. Many theories have been
advanced, investigated and blown out by
P.M.G. technicians, who at time of
writing hadn’t been successful in solving
the mystery.
* # #
, “V e g a ”: In “Brigalow,” R. S. Porteous
wr i tes G f dogs sinking their teeth into the
bullocks’ hocks. The first-class cattledog
bites only low down on the heels, crouch-
j ng c i OS e to the ground to avoid flying
hooves. Any dog biting as high as the
hocks would not last long with a
mustering-team.
* * * *
“Zake”: Despite the 'seemingly strong
evidence adduc/d in the Garden of,Eden
(though there is more than a suggestion
that Eve was not exactly impartial in
putting forward her explanation of the
affair), it is not the habit of the venomous
snake to leave terra firma for the giddy
heights—the bloke with the curved fangs
leaves tree-climbing to his green brother.
Anyway, regarding the first serpent, which
apparently liked to flit among the
Jonathans, is there any real evidence that
it possessed poison-sacs?
* * * *
“Jon Lyn”: “Wandana” invited a
whale of a controversy when, in a par.
here, he blithely referred to St. Matthew’s,
Windsor, as “Australia’s oldest Anglican
church.” Three have claims in various
ways to that honor. St. Matthew’s is the
oldest completed building to have been
consecrated (1822), but it is claimed that
Anglican services have been celebrated
for the longest period in St. Luke’s,
Liverpool, the first being in 1819, when
the church was only part-built. St.
John’s, Parramatta, also has a claim;
“Fair dinkum —that place gives me the creeps!”
its twin towers were added to the original
building between 1815 and 1819, and
when this structure was demolished in
1852 the towers remained standing and
the present'church was built on to them.
* * * *
“Hi-Fy”: Saw a wasp getting together
the food-supply for a prospective family ;
not the slow process of dragging a spider
anything up to three-times its bulk over
rough ground. This insect was the type
that goes for grubs. Straddling the inert
grub, rendered immobile by the wasp’s
sting, it clasped the food-store for a
future family to its underside with several
legs, and ran nimbly with the other legs—
much like a modern timber-jinker.
* * * *
“Ceg”: I know an old American clock,
with a pendulum and a wooden case
decorated with a bit of fretwork, that
hasn’t stopped for 63 years. Keeps good
time, too. Always, inside the case, has
been kept a small dish with kerosene in
it and a small piece of cottonwool. That
may be the secret of its long and useful
life. The clock cost 16-bob —but in 1893
that might have been money. Anyway,
the clock’s an honored member of the
family and £lO wouldn’t buy it.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: The fashion for giving
every detail about every member of any
family figuring in the Births, Marriages
and Deaths column of some country
papers often provides interesting side-
lights on local affairs. The recent death
of an elderly country man told the world
that his entire family, four daughters, had
each married a man called Smith. And
the latest announcement of an engage-
ment added a description of the ring!
** ! * *
“Kerba’N Ted and his, mate Chicker
run a eucalyptus-distilling plant in the
gorges, and, both being ex-Diggers, it
was inevitable that the idea had to come
along that a local version of jungle-juice
could be produced to bring a ray of
brightness to the drear routine. The
result of the first effort was reluctantly
condemned, but high hopes were enter-
tained for the next brew. Ted, sitting
like a witch amidst his elixir-producer,
was just preparing to bottle the fluid
when Chick returned from fuelling the
eucalyptus-distillery. “Well, let’s try it,”
said Chick, and took a hearty swig from
the jam-tin jug. He ran the brew criti-
cally around his tongue, then gave his
verdict: “Not bad, but hasn’t it got a
kinda soapy taste?” “Could be,” Ted
admitted. “That’s what I’ve been washing
the bottles out with.”
* * * •
“Nigel”: At what point does habit in
creatures become inborn, thereafter to be
known as instinct? Geographers believe
a theory that the Australian coastline once
extended far into the Tasman. When
some of our wading-birds fancied an
annual holiday in the Shaky Islands in
those days, they simply followed the Aus-
tralian coast. It was as easy at that.
Today, however, the annual jaunt presents
far greater difficulties. Over a thousand
miles of ocean separates the holiday-
makers 'and their destination. It is
accepted as a fact that they still follojw
the age-old route along what was the
Australian coastline when the world was
very young. At some time before the
land disappeared habit must have merged
into instinct,*and so-New Zealanders still
welcome an annual flock of feathered
tourists, as the moas did in the dawn of
time.
• * * *
“Sevenelms”: Lese-majeste was care-
fully watched in Borneo. A Chinese
towkay, registering his new Buick, was
told to simplify the warning-signal to
one note, because the Governor had a
two-note on his new roadster. Another
Governor and his lady dropped in
impromptu one afternoon at the tennis-
courts, and while he lingered chatting
to someone, she advanced a few paces
to be greeted by the club secretary. With
him was a newcomer whom the secretary
started to present. “Oh, no!” she
exclaimed, retreating precipitately. “His
Excellency first.” After tennis I was in
the club just finishing a pint of ginger-
beer when the Governor asked me to
have a drink. I begged to be excused as
I was just off to shower, but he took it
ill and I was socially in the dogbox for
months. Still, perhaps I fared better than
the Collector of Customs whom the
Governor asked to have a drink, and who
indicated politely that he was not thirsty.
“Do you,” trenchantly said his Excel-
lency, “thus class yourself with the beasts
of the earth, that only drink when
parched?”
* * * *
TF “Gravelsnatcher” sees fit to give the
magpie full marks for nest-building
(B. 22/8/’56), at least one other authority
won’t secohd the motion. And I go back
to third-class in school and 1917 to prove
the point. In that year, the second year
of its life, the N.S.W. School Magazine
printed a poem which began:
In olden times, the story says, when birds
could talk and lecture,
A magpie called her feathered friends to
teach them architecture.
To boil it down, “her feathered
friends” wouldn’t be told, Maggie got
huffy, and:
Away she flew, her feathered friends
their folly to discover,
Who now can build b.ut half a nest and
cannot roof it over.
It wound up with the moral.:-
Nfi better, fate do men deserve when
self-conceit can lead them
Friendly .instructions to despise and think
they do not need them.
A footnote explained: “This only
applies to the English magpie ; the Aus-
tralian magpie builds a nest of sticks
without a covering.” Evidently the Aussie
maggie was one of the knowalls.
BELLFIELD.
OYSTERS
“New Zealand’s 2,200,000 population eats
65-million oysters a year, according to oyster
statisticians.”
Two million Maorilanders
In twelve months eat their way
Through oysters, millions, 65.
But who on earth could stay alive
On such a ration, pray ?
For, breaking down the figures,
As anybody can,
The oysters eaten in a week
Are half of one per man.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


\
N
*
★*
NT
MW, SOOTH. W*UES
H/
7
•iWfon#
'VICTORIA
"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services /
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) i
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon*
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson. '
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
Business.Rollery.Ete.
Wool—and Other—Prices
Australia win get no last-
ing benefit if the present
comparative buoyancy in wool
prices is the result of military
preparations arising from the
Suez situation. It will merely
tend to mask the underlying
weakness of the whole economy,
as happened when the Korean
war broke out and world demand
for commodities, wool and
metals in particular, rose spec-
tacularly after the slump of
1951-52.
On the other hand, if the firm-
ing of prices is in response to
genuine civilian demand and
doesn’t delude politicians and
other authorities into a further
weakening of the economy by
yielding to inflationary pressures,
the result may be both hopeful
and helpful. Present higher wool
prices, superficially, are certainly
a welcome change in an other-
wise fairly drab economic out-
look, and high authorities do
tend towards the opinion that,
in spite of what special stimulus
the Suez situation may have
given to last week’s wool prices,
the world position of ordinary
demand and supply is sound,
provided prices don’t go too high
and put wool into a “special
commodity” class.
With reference to commodity-
markets generally, the Australian
central bank, in its annual report,
says that the more general appli-
cation of improved techniques of
production, together with in-
creased capital-expenditure in
agriculture, has resulted in
steadily-rising supplies of farm
products. These developments
have contributed to national self-
sufficiency in food-supply, and,
in addition, U.S. surplus-disposal
policies have narrowed the world
export-market opportunities.
Consequently, Australia has
met with increasing difficulty in
disposing of major export com-
modities other than wool. More-
over, the long-term agreements
which had for many years
assured overseas markets for a
number of commodities have
expired and only meat and, to
a limited extent, sugar and
wheat were supported by market-
ing agreements.
Dr. Coombs reports that in
1955-56, notwithstanding the
firming in the price of wool, the
export-price index reached its
lowest point since 1949-50.
In particular, wheat prices
declined, although there was
some improvement towards the
end of the year, and butter, meat
and sugar prices, after rising in
the first half of the year, fell
rather sharply in the second
half. In contrast with the general
declining trend in land-product
prices, base-metal prices
advanced strongly.
When, per contra, the import
situation is considered, the diffi-
culties at present encountered in
the balance-of-payments position
are not hard to seek. The prices
of most imported articles rose
during the year, and the import
price-index reached its highest
point since 1951-52. The rise
was mostly in goods bought from
the United Kingdom, which, on
the. average, rose| about 3 p.c.
Outstanding were increases in the
cost of base metals and
machinery, including motor-
cars, and rubber. Textile prices
fell.
Norfolk Island & Byron Bay
Whaling
T}ORMED in Sydney on
August 17, Norfolk Island
and Byron Bay Whaling Co.,
Ltd., will control, as a holding
co., whaling operations at Byron
Bay (N.S.W.) and Norfolk Island
through subsidiary cos.
The Byron Bay whaling-
station has been taken over by
a subsidiary (North Coast
Whaling Co., Ltd.) from Byron
Bay Whaling Co. Pty., Ltd., for
£150,000 in cash. This station
began whaling in 1954. The
Norfolk Whaling Co., Ltd., is
selling its 107 £1 shares to the co.
at par-value, plus an advance
of £169,893.
The prospectus claims that the
net value of the Byron Bay assets
|is £252,435, and that expendi-
ture on the Norfolk Island
station is in excess of the amount
to be paid in respect of shares
and by way of advances. Cost
of the two stations to the present
float amounts to £320,000.
It is proposed by N.L and
8.8. to issue 417,497 £1 shares
to the public, and this is the
minimum subscription for allot-
ment in the present issue.
Together with £2503 already
subscribed, this will make initial
paid capital £420,000, leaving,
.after vendors’ consideration,
£73,500 in cash and £26,500 for
estimated preliminary expenses.
The cash will enable, among
other things, completion' of a
third whaling-vessel—a catcher-
tanker.
Both whaling-stations were
established by Anderson Meat
Industries, Ltd., Sydney. The
Byron Bay station operated suc-
cessfully under the former
control.
The present quota for whales,
fixed by international agreement,
is ,120 for the 1956 season at
Byron Bay and 150 at Norfolk
Island. In Australia the whaling
season lasts from May 1 to
October 31 each year. This"
period, the directors say, is more
than long enough for the inte-
grated staff and plant of the two
subsidiaries to be used for the
complete whale quota to be
taken on each station, thus
saving on capital outlay and
making best use' of the staff.
Patrick A. Conrad, managing-
director and a world figure in
the whaling industry, as we'll as
an authority on whale-meat (he is
a director of three U.S. fish and
whaling cos.), indicates that he
believes the maximum processing
capacity of five whales a day at
Byron Bay and three a day at
Norfolk Island can easily be
filled by the operation of one
catcher, with another in reserve..
He also believes that the co. has
economic advantages not pos-
sessed by other shore-based
stations.
The catching-costs at Byron
Bay, in particular, are declared
to be the lowest in the world, the
whales being taken almost in
sight of the station, and that
this station holds the Australian
record for 1955 with a recovery
of 9.3 tons of oil per whale. It
has also sold its raw-material
production to greater advantage
than other stations, because of,
says Mr. Conrad, the installation
of special meat-handling equip-
ment which qualifies the product
for the U.S. market.
In relation to its capital,
Norfolk Island and Byron Bay
Whaling Co. will start off with
a lower quota of whales than
either Whale Industries, Ltd., or
Nor’-West Whaling Co., Ltd., two
popular concerns already listed
on ’Change. But the new float
claims various economic advan-
tages over the others ; in addi-
tion, it intends to engage in out-
of-season operations, trawling
for lobsters and prawns for
export to the United States, the
demand for which at present
exceeds supply.
From whaling operations (oil,
by-product and meat for export)
at both stations Mr. .Conrad
expects an operating profit of
£174,000 a year. This is hoped
to be augmented by £55,000 -a
year from off-season activities.
Both figures, of course, subject
to depreciation, taxation, etc.
The estimate of whaling profit,
for the reasons quoted, is higher
per quota-whale than that
“I think they've got a plan.”
realised by other public whaling
cos. in Australia. Mr. Conrad
says: “1 feel satisfied that, given
reasonable financial conditions
and maintenance of quotas, the
co. should have no difficulty in
paying dividends at rates com-
parable to those paid by existing
Australian whaling cos.”
Assuming that the Norfolk
Island catches are up to
expectations, on the basis of the
results of other Australian
whaling cos., prospects of a
reasonable dividend are bright
enough even if not all the
directors’ anticipations as to N.I.
and 8.8.’s particular advantages
are fully realised.
Depreciation Neglect
TWO Government - created
burdens on the Australian
export trade mentioned by the
Tariff Board in its latest report
are (1) inadequate depreciation
allowances for tax-assessment
purposes, and (2) payroll-tax.
“Some countries,” says the
board, “with which Australia is
competing assist their industries
by generous depreciation allow-
ances, and the board believes
that there is a strong case for
similar treatment of our own
industries.”
The board adds that the two
main tasks before Australia are
to arrest inflation and to reach
a position of international credit
in fact and in principle. “There
is no question of choosing
whether the tasks will be under-
taken. They are compulsory.”
“Accomplishment,” says the
board, “is well within our
capacity.”
Trade and Productivity
IN the opinion of Dr. Coombs,
governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, the need to
strengthen Australia’s balance-
of-payments position continues to
be the dominant problerh in the
Australian qponomy. While this
problem remains, he says, the
economy can’t afford domestic
inflation, and its investment
policy must be concentrated on
lowering costs and increasing
output, particularly in industries
capable of contributing to the
balance-of-payments problem.
That is very much The
Bulletin’s own opinion,
although it would be inclined to
say that the balance-of-payments
problem is largely a manifesta-
tion of other, more dominant,
problems; but bankers tend to
put the banking aspect of a situa-
tion above the , others. The
Bulletin would say that Aus-
tralia’s great and dominant
problem is inadequate produc-
tivity ; and, as Dr. Coombs pre-
scribes higher output as part of
his cure for the balance-of-
payments situation, he seems
tacitly to agree.
The central bank reports that
during 1955-56 business activity
in Australia continued at a very
high level. There was a further
increase in total demand,
although not so great as in the
preceding year. The higher level
of demand was Satisfied by an
increase in available supplies and
a reduction in the rate of stock-
accumulation. Fewer imported
goods reached the market
because of import-restrictions,
but domestic production was
“significantly” higher. But,
obviously, still not high enough.
Employment continued to rise
in 1955-56, but at a slower rate
than in the preceding year, and
in the second half of the term
the unsatisfied demand for labor
eased considerably. There were
increases in the levels of wages
and of both wholesale and retail
prices; and, since the close of
the financial year, of course,
there have been further increases
in the basic wage, as well as fares
and other charges and prices in
several of the States.
Business Activity
TNDUSTRIAL production in
*■ Australia during 1955-56 was
higher than m 1954-55, accord-
ing to the Commonwealth Bank’s
annual survey. The volume of
imports was slightly lower as
a result of the tightening of
import-restrictions, but this fall
was more than offset by the in-
crease in domestic production.
This was the third successive
increase in the volume of
available supplies ; but, because
of the reduction in imports, the
rise was smaller than in either
of the preceding two years.
Significant increases were
recorded in the production of
iron and steel, chemicals, paints,
food, drink and newsprint. Pro-
duction of building fittings and
domestic refrigerators was lower
than in the preceding year.
Cohl production again fell
slightly. Increased consumption
by electricity-undertakings and
railways was offset by a lower
demand by the iron-and-steel
industry and gas undertakings.
The most important develop-
ment in the iron-and-steel
industry was the completion of a
hot-strip mill at Port Kembla
with a capacity of a million tons
which has enabled an expansion,
as well as a diversification, of
production. Further additional
capacity was provided by
new open-hearth steel-making
furnaces with an expected output
of about 350,000 tons a year.
However, despite increased pro-
duction, supplies of some types,
especially structural steel, were
still insufficient to meet demand.
Aggregate demand for goods
and services remained high
during the year, and was suffi-
cient to absorb the supplies avail-
able at higher prices than those
ruling in 1954-55.
Personal-consumption expendi-
ture increased, reflecting a rise
in personal incomes which was
somewhat greater that that oi


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
k
BORN 1820—STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.JBt.I2
4*
1 rr.-r3^
Sound
INVESTMENTS
that do not JluHuu li
INTEREST-BEARING
DEPOSITS
When you invest in Interest Bearing Deposits
with the Bank of New South Wales, you receive a
regular income and have the satisfaction of
knowing that your money is perfectly safe.
Interest Bearing Deposits with the “Wales’*
are secured by the substantial resources of Aus-
tralia’s oldest and largest trading bank. Estab-
lished in 1817, its assets today exceed
£450,000,000.
Rates of interest paid at present in Australia
are: —
■ 1 • ' \ . . .
3% per annum for 24 months
2|% per annum for 12 months
2\ % per annum for 6 months
2J% per annum for 3 months
Any branch will accept Interest Bearing
Deposits and interest commences from date the
deposit is made.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 950 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and two
branches in London.
A C REAT AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
A5625c
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
■■■■■■■ ■:
mmmim
mm
mmm
' y.
m
.
n
Four standard sizes range
from 25,000 fo 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" -corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
niaterial: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks ara designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated, concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
are provided by the purchaser.
USES:
• Water conservation
# irrigation head tanl
• industrial water
storage
# Swimming pools
# Town water supply
• Fire fighting
Overflow unit available
ai slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Prices c.i.f. capita! cities available on application
10,000-Gallon Water Tanks (tall or squat) are available also
10,000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
14ft, 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high 19ft. lin. dia., 6ft. Sin. high
Basic unit, £ll7 Basic unit, £93
Write for further information and Agents Names to.
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaghf I Australia I Pty- Ltd, in
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmt 0 /J Capital CIfI’eS-
LCI3AX/54
the previous year, and a further,
though slower, expansion of
hire-purchase finance. Rural
income fell as a result of rising
costs, but the fall was more than
offset by the rise in other income
due mainily to higher wage-
payments. However, the rate of
increase in personal-consumption
expenditure slackened.
Compared with the previbus
year, retail sales increased in
value and volume during
1955-56. The value of sales of
all the major commodity groups,
excluding motor-vehicles, etc.,
was greater than in 1954-55, but
the most marked increases were
recorded for sales of food and
groceries and hardware.
Investment expenditure rose
again in 1955-56, both the
private and Government sectors
sharing the increase. Non-
residential building, which rose
in 1954-55, increased further over
the year. Although there was
some decline in commencements
and completions of dwellings and
the work on hand declined during
1955-56, the value of total invest-
ment in residential building was
about the same as in 1954-55.
Registrations of new motor-
vehicles, particularly cars,
declined towards the end of the
year, but total investment
for the year in motor-vehicles
was a little higher than in the
preceding year.
Expenditure on some large in-
vestment projects, particularly
oil-refineries, declined sharply,
but total expenditure on new
plant and equipment was higher
than in 1954-55.
Rotary and Chum Drilling
[From 1,. Owen]
'T'HE percussion, or “churn,”
drill is very much older than
the oil industry ; in fact, there
are records of its use by the
Chinese in well-sinking dating
back to beyond the Christian era,
and both the methods and the
tools then employed differed but
little from present-day practice.
In Pennsylvania, when oil-
winning, as an organised in-
dustry, was bom at the sinking of
the Drake well in 1859, churn-
drifling was universal, and the
churn-driller was a member of a
closed craft, the job and skills
being handed down from father
to son.
Most of the really expert cable-
drillers, even after JVorld War I,
were Pennsylvanian-born. They
possessed an uncanny ability for
making the rig “talk,” and
“Dutchy” on an oilfield was as
common as “Mac” in an engine-
room. The version of English
(known as Pennsylvania Dutch)
spoken by them was almost un-
intelligible to the other em-
ployees—even to those reared
north of the Mason-Dixon line
in U.S.A.
These Dutchies were intensely
conservative folk, and strenu-
ously opposed any change in
technique or equipment. For
instance, many of them,. very
vocally and stubbornly, objected
to using steel-wire rope in place
of manilla cable. The change-
over was made all the more
difficult since, invariably, there
was some good sense behind their
obstinacy, for manilla gave a
degree of springiness to the
cable which made the hammer-
ing of the bit at the bottom of
the hole more effective than
when using the comparatively
“dead” steel-wire rope. Even
today, where such resilience is
required, it is often the practice
to add a length of manilla to
the wire bull-rope (drilling-
cable). The lack of such resilience
was a major factor in the failure
of the Canadian (pole) percus-
sion system of well-sinking to
become popular.
The Pennsylvanian driller was
firmly antagonistic, also, to the
replacement of timber by steel in
derrick and rig. Again, there
was a valid reason! In the oil
industry, particularly in the early
days, overstressing of equipment
—which was unavoidable when
there was a reluctant “fish” in
the hole—was almost routine.
The timber members of the
derrick creaked and groaned, as
did the wooden bull-wheel (to
which the drilling-cable drum
was attached), which changed
from round to oval as the strain
upon it was increased. During
all this, the driller kept up a
running conversation pic-
turesque and often profane—
answering the creaks and groans
with affectionate obscenity, but
he always managed to jump
clear before the final crash and,
in the bunkhouse that night, he
would relate how the darned old
son of a so-and-so of a derrick
had told him just when to quit.
Incidentally, the derrick-
builder was a craftsman of very
high degree, and it was a joy
to watch his supreme skill during
the erection of the rig. With a
bunch of “sixpenny” nails in
one hand and a hammer in the
other, he threw nail after nail
so that its point struck the exact
place required. He followed
each precise throw, almost too
quickly for the eye to follow,
with a single hammer-blow
which drove the nail exactly to
the hilt —no more and no less.
The churn-driller, with noth-,
ing more to guide him' than the
“feel” of the cable and the
movement of the walking-beam,
described with almost invariable
accuracy the characteristics of
the stratum in which the bit was
working. He had a profound,
though tolerant, contempt for the
college-trained geologist, and
his petrographic vocabulary was
restricted usually to sand, clay,
lime, rock and gumbo, adjectiv-
ally embellished by highly
descriptive expressions of the
other properties of the bed he
was drilling.
Once the young geologist had
acquired a working knowledge
of the drilling idiom, he could
construct a scientifically accurate
log without moving off the
derrick-floor, except when
Dutchy went to have a look at
the fragmental weil-samples
brought up by the bailer.
Dutchy was a wizard at im-
provisation. When there was
trouble in the hole, he designed
(and forged, if there were no
blacksmith available), on the
spot, all the special “fishing”
tools required.
The only major improvement
which has been made to the
ancient percussion-drill has been
the employment of steam (and,
occasionally, the diesel-engine
and electric motor) as a prime-
mover in place of man- or ox-
power (hence “bull-wheel”).
On the other hand, the rotary
system of drilling, which was
invented by Fauvelle in 1845, has
been very considerably improved
and modified, and many refine-
ments have been added. Ancillary
equipment has been increased to
an astounding extent, and the
rotary driller (according to
Dutchy, never worth a glassful
. of tepid water —or words to that
effect —as a craftsman) has
become a highly-trained and
skilled engineer surrounded by
a multitude of dials which pro-
vide him with accurate quanti-
tative information with reference
not only to surface equipment
but also as to conditions in the
hole right down to bottom.
It is possible, also, to drill
wells at a predetermined angle
to the vertical, to obtain accu-
rately levelled and orientated
cores, and to get much more
complete information from sur-
face to completion than is
possible with the most modern
pattern of percussion-drill, even
with the ancillary aids now
available to the latter.
For many years following its
introduction, the rotary method
was not considered suitable for
drilling through very hard rocks,
and the percussion method was
often employed for this purpose
even when rotary equipment was
available. On some fields, where
conditions varied repeatedly
from hard to soft as the drilling
progressed, a “combination” rig,
capable of utilising both
methods, was set-up. This pro-
cedure has lost favor with the
improvements in material and
design of rotary bits.
Today, the percussion-cfrill is
restricted, normally, to use in
firm and hard material and in
wells where the conditions at
depth are already known with
some degree of accuracy ; even
then, jt is rarely employed for
depths greater than 8000 ft.
Where wells exceeding this
depth are to be drilled, or where
soft material and unstable beds
(such as quicksands and heaving
clays or faulted zones) are
anticipated, the percussion
method is not favored even for
shallow wells, in spite of the fact
that shallow drilling in easy
strata is cheaper than with
rotary.
With the passing of the churn-
drill, another line of superb
craftsmen will vanish into
oblivion. But that is onfe of the
penalties of progress.


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE - What do these words convey to you?
TF you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be
necessary when the time arrives for you to enter upon your
duties ; the responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to
give full information on these matters, and to explain how the
Company may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a
person who has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important
subject, write for a free copy of our booklet, "Your Executor
and Trusteeor telephone for an appointment, without
obligation .
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman ;
Sir EDWARD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT:
JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
HUGH DTXSON (Alternate Director).
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £83,000,000
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED.
Local Directors, in addition to those Directors mentioned on the left:
WARREN I). McOONAT.D, Vice-Chairman; S. G. McEARIANE, C.M.G.
k!i
C.l
33-3? HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAMWORTB and
ORANGE
The WILDCAT
COUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd.
-ESTABLISHED in 1859, this progres
*-• sive fire, marine and accident office
was soon accepting risks in most parts of
the world, meeting claims of over a
quarter-million after the ’Frisco earth-
quake of 1906. Today the co., with head-
quarters in Auckland, collects more than
80 p.c. of its premium income from out-
side the Dominion. A trust department
handling assets in excess of £25 million
also contributes to earnings.
During the year completed on May
31 last paid capital reached £3 million
following a one-for-one bonus-issue. Of
the total, £2.7 million has come from
reserves over the last 44 years, but capital
is still well supported by reserves, and the
scrip commands a substantial premium
on the sharemarket.
• Net premium income for the past term
reached a record £7,435,075 (up £660,111),
but shareholders have been warned not
to expect further improvement for some
years, as surplus insurance capacity in
the international market is creating strong
competition and could lead to lower
underwriting returns. Increasing by 112 s.
p.c. (because of world-wide increases in
workers’-compensation claims, higher
motor-car losses, and the incidence of
storms, fires and road accidents in the
U.S.A.), the high loss-rate (68.4 p.c.)
took a larger share of the premium
income, and, with £202,000 added to the
reserve for unexpired risks (nil previous
term), forced the underwriting surplus
down by £60,079 to £352,393 in spite of,
the satisfactory drop of 1565. p.c. in the
expense-rate:
Loss Expense
Year. Net Rati. Rate.
May Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
31. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1951. . 6,337,587 3,274,028 1,342,265 61,3 25.1
1952.. 6,038,582 3,595,966 1,662,267 65T.5 27.5
1953.. 6,860,338 4,144,044 2,121,549 60.3 30.9
1954.. 6,923,875 4,342,297 2,151,692 62.7 31.0
1955.. 6,774,964 4.258,287 2,104,205 62.8 81.0
1956. . 7,435,075 6,089,421 1,724,458 68.4 23.2
At £4,432,000 reserve for unexpired risks
was 59.6 p.c. of net premiums, well above
the recognised 40 p.c. level but below the
previous term’s 62.4 p.c.
As a general principle divs. do* not
exceed the income from investments, the
underwriting surplus being used to build -
up reserves against the demands of less-
prosperous years. Up £47,323 at £380,302,
investment income (after tax) exceeded
the underwriting surplus by £27,909,
covering the div. with £5302 to spare.
Totalling £732,695, net earnings from all
sources were down by £12,756 after pro-
viding an unspecified sum for taxation:
To Re- Re-
May, Profit.* ' —Dividends serves. serves.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N,Z. £N.Z.
1952. .491,066 17$ p.c. = 262,500 228,566 7,413,881
Less exchange adjustment, £120,838.. 7,293,043
To unexpired risks, £307,000 .. 7,600,043
1953. .531,373 17$ p.c. = 262,500 268,873 7,868,916
Less exchange adjustment, £lO5O .. 7,867,866
To unexpired risks, £119,000 .. 7,986,866
1954. .610,919 20 p.c. *= 300,000 310,919 8,297,785
Less exchange adjustment, £82,144.. 8,215,641
1955. .745,451 25 p.c.-375,000 370,451 8,586,092
Reserves capitalised, £1,500,000.. 7,086,092
Less exchange adjustment, £54,022 7,032,070
To unexpired risks, £202,000 .. 7,234,070
1956. .732,695 12$ p.c. = 376,000 357,695 7,591,765
* After allowing for unexpired risks.
Earnings came in at the rate of 24.4 p.c.
on capital, slightly under the 24.8 p.c.
(of present capital) shown in the previous
term, the 12| p.c. div. calling for the
same amount (£375,000) as the 25 p.c.
distribution in 195^.
Balance-sheet figures show that both
policyholders and shareholders enjoy a
high degree of security:
1954. 1955. 1956.
(New Zealand Currency.)
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £3,000,000
Reserves .. 4,053,785 4,356,092 3,159,765
Unexpired risks 4,244,000 4,230,000 4,432,000
Unadjusted losses 2,278,803 2,893,568 2,744,397
Creditors, tax
provision .. 678,434 710,087 573,658
Final div. . . 187,500 225,000 225,000
£12,942,522 £13,VL4,747 £14,134,820
Freeholds, etc. 1,244,422 1,301,799 1,'332,116
Shares . . 2,267,205 2,616,500 2,859,525
Shares in subsid. 94,750 95,169 95,169
Mortgages .. 982,663 961,415 1,267,848
Debtors, etc... 1,113,095 828,737 1,459,128
Bonds, debentures,
cash, etc. .. 7,240,387 7,611,127 7,121,534
£12,942,522 £13,414,747 £14,134,820
A reduction of £489,593 in bonds, cash,
etc., released funds which, with surplus
earnings, provided an extra £305,933 for
mortgages and £243,025 for shareholdings
—a movement that should further im-
prove investment income. Debtors rose
sharply (up £630,391), while creditors,
including tax-provision, fell by £136,429.
On the Sydney ’Change the f.-p. £1
shares sold recently at 100 s., to return
3.1 p.c. from the 12| p.c. div. at the
current rate of exchange. Including the
provision for unexpired risks, the net
tangible cover is 70s. 7d, (N.Z.), or
88s. 3d. (Aust.).
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
■n> ECENT criticism of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s legislation for the coastal
shipping industry (on the grounds of
favoritism to private shipowners) is
hardly supported, in all its implications,
by the facts of the position.
While the new legislation does impose
certain limits on the size of the Govern-
ment-owned fleet to be operated by the
Coastal Shipping Commission, and the
scope of its activities, an examination of
the finances of most Australian shipping
companies shows that the task of replac-
ing old tonnages and, in the presence of
competition from road-, rail- and air-
transport, show a reasonable return on
their investment, is a very formidable
one. Without a degree of rationalisation
of the industry’s operations, it would be
nigh overwhelming.
Melbourne Steam operates one of the
smaller fleets on the Australian coast. It
comprises the passfenger-ship Duntroon
and two freighters (none of which was
built later than 1935) and several smaller
vessels. Through its general trading
departments the co. acts as agent for a
number of shipping- and air-lines, steve-
doring cos., etc., and there are also three
engineering subsidiaries (at Williams-
town, Victoria, Sydney and Fremantle)
which are reported to have operated satis-
factorily last term.
However, because of higher ship-
operating costs, strikes on the wharves
and the dispute with the Merchant
Service Guild over pilotage fees, there
was a drop in fleet earnings which pulled
down consolidated net profit (after
certaip transfers to and from provisions)
by £19,496 to £38,690, equal to 10.9 p.c.
on ord. capital, allowing for the pref.
charges, as against 16.6 p.c. in 1955:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Re- Re-
June Profit. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. tained. serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
7\ p.c.
1951 .. 32,651 1560 25,500 5,691 306,187
Profit sale Coolana, etc., £14,660 320,847
8 p.c.
1952 .'. 37,568 1560 27,200' 8,808 329,655
Net reductions reserves, £14,527 .. 315,128
1953 .. 47,928 1560 27,200 19,168 334,296
Net reductions reserves, £7631 .. 326,665
9 p.c.
1954 .. 61,591 1560 30,600 29,431 356,096
Tax overprovided, £7500 .. .. 363,596
To provision for overhauls, £12,500 351,096
Net reduction reserves, £264 .. 350,832
1955 .. 58,186 1560 30,600 26,026 376,858
Tax overprovided, £4682 .. .. 381,540
Net addition reserves, £l5 .. .. 381,555
To staff fund, £4738 .. .. 376,817
8 p.c.
1956 .. 38,690* 1560 27,200 9,930 386,747
* Includes £Bl,OOO transferred from provision for
overhauls.
Excluding £Bl,OOO transferred from the
provision for overhauls, the year ended
in a loss of £42,310. On the profit claimed
by the company an 8 p.c. div. (down 1
p.c.) was distributed to ord. shareholders.
In the 1956 balance-sheet the fleet,
freehold properties, engineering and dock-
plant, etc., were shown chiefly at cost at
£1,357,334, against which £833,705 depre-
ciation has been provided. Other reserves
and provisions for contingencies, special
renewals, insurance, overhauls, etc., came
to £343,993. No funds appear to be
earmarked specifically against these
reserves, but at June 30 investments stood
at £63,945, and cash and bonds £271,002:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1964. 1956. 1956.
Pref '£26,000 £26,000 £26,000
Ord 340,000 340,000 340,000
Reserves ~ .. 356,096 376,858 386,747
Creditors 496,638 466,130 615,081
Overhauls provision,
T CtC- - V | 215,874 233,502 j
Tax provision j ( 16,440
Suspense account.. 277 8,213 7,49 a
Final divs. .. 17,780 17,780 14,380
£1,452,665 £1,458,483 £1,522,235
Ships, freeholds, etc. 511,457 523,629 493,298
Shares .. .. 58,326 59,788 63,946
Stocks .. .. 85,530 150,239 132,748
Debtors . . . . 507,940 429,355 549,090
Cash, bonds .. 289,154 294,936 282,785
Intangibles .. 258 536 369
£1,452,665 £1,458,483 £1,522,285
Apart from the transfer from overhauls-
provision, main movements in the figures
were a lift of £119,735 in debtors
(£549,090) and £158,951 in creditors
(£615,081).
At present the £1 ords. are quoted at
225. 9d. (30s. 3d. a year ago) to return 7
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. The prefs. have
eased to 16s. 6d. (225. 6d.) to give the
same yield. Net .asset backing is £2B 19s.
the prefs., 425. 9d. the ords.
Howards, Ltd.
'TfllS Brisbane-registered concern has
*- been in the motor - distributing
business for almost 50 years, and in that
period it has never failed to pay a
dividend. When, in 1930, it relinquished
the agency for General Motors, the co.
took over the distribution of. Morris
products in Queensland and the northern-
river towns of N.S.W., and, after the
formation of the British Motor Corpora-
tion a few years ago, it added the fran-
chise for Wolseley, Riley and M.G. cars
and Nuffield Universal tractors to its
list. In the dollar-short post-war years
it has been in a most comfortable
position.
Shareholders have received 20 p.c. a
year on their capital over the last seven
terms, and, for the four terms preceding
those, 16 p.c. a year. In the same 11
years £691,713 has been added to visible
reserves, which, on June 30 last, were
more than four times the size of paid
capital. Accordingly support for the
co.’s scrip has steadily strengthened on
’Change, and last year the £1 shares
brought as much as 81s., equal to the
1951 market “high.” Since then the
credit-squeeze and the much more
sharply-aimed sales-tax increase, on which
the recent easing of hire-purchase
terms has had little effect, has taken some
of the lustre off the picture, though pros-
pects for shareholders are still very good.
Last sale on Brisbane ’Change, following
publication of accounts, was 755. for
a yield of 5.3 p.c. on an unchanged 20
p.c. div. basis.
Down 25 p.c. on the previous term,
the £105,022 net profit was written after
providing an unspecified amount for
depreciation and £37,700 less for taxa-
tion :
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 150,407 20 p.c, = 41,707 108,700 513,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 488,139
1952.. 102,479 20 p.c. = 41,706 60,773 548,912
1953.. 99,461 20 „ „ 41,706 57,755 606,667
1954.. 129,338 20 „ ~ 41,706 87,632 694,299
Assets revalued, £14,700 .. .. 708,999
1955.. 140,134 20 p.c. = 41,707 98,427 807,426
1956.. 105,022 20 „ „ 41,707 63,315 870,741
On unchanged ord. capital (there are no
prefs.) the £105,022 was equal to 50.4 p.c.
as against 67.2 p.c., 62.7 p.c., 47.7 p.c.,
49.1 p.c. and 72.1 p.c. back to 1951.
Despite a very unstable market, the
Westinghouse franchise, acquired in 1955,
is said to have “more than fulfilled”
expectations. In Toowoomba a new build-
ing has been erected to accommodate the
refrigeration service department. Else-
where the motor spare-parts section has
been enlarged to handle the bigger volume
of business.
Here are the balance-sheet figures:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ’ .. £208,533 £208,533 £208,533
Reserves . . .. 694,299 807,425 870,740
Creditors . . .. 327,762 227,844 178,262
Unearned interest 47,899 80,818 23,222
Staff funds .. 26,000 26,000 25,000
Tax provision .. 144,7 69 181,553 146,835
Final diva. .. 41,706 41,707 41,707
• £1,489,468 £1,522,877 £1,498,299
Freehold .. .. 206,915 228,960 238,44*
Plant, etc. .. 17,128 14,568 22,188
Stocks . . . . 7 58,82 2 5 69,89 9 708,869
Book debts, invest- '
ment, etc. .. 503,162 5 82,7 4 8 4 66,898
Cash, etc 8,441 126,207 62,396
£1,489,468 £1,522,877 £1,493,299
Another £133,970 of stocks was carried
and a reduction of £7593 in unearned
income on hire-purchase contracts and
£133,970 in debtors, etc., seems to sum-up
what happened to business during the
year.
Net tangible cover in book-values is
103 s. 6d.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
r T'HE latest accounts, to June 30, of this
-* leading Sydney hotel show that the
substantially improved earnings of the
previous year have been more than main-
tained. Gift-scrip was handed out in
January, ’55, on a l-for-5 basis, and share-
holders are now offered another 112,081
shares at par in the same (l-for-5) propor-
tion to their present holdings. The bonus-
issue lifted paid capital by £93,401 to
£593,404, and a further £112,081. from the
present issue will bring the total to
£672,485, of which £33,000 is in 6 p.c.
prefs.
One of the largest hotels in the Com-
monwealth, the Australia occupies an
excellent site in the heart of Sydney,
providing accommodation for 475 guests.
The co. has devoted a considerable
sum to the modernisation and renovation
of the hotel over the past few years, and
the improved earnings indicate a return
from this expenditure. An increase in
net profit of £6698 to £81,213 is claimed
after allowing £30,000 (up £5000) for
depreciation and providing £52,000 (up
£7000) for taxation:
f —< Dividends \
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
1951 .. 34,987 1980 . 7 p.c. = 32,690 198,022
1952 .. 35,536 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 198,887
Renewal res. drawn upon, £21,940 .. 176,947
1963 . . 42,162 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 179,759
Renewal res. drawn upon, £18,060 .. 161,699
1954 .. 42,921 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 165,280
Assets revalued, £659,580 .. .. 824,860
Goodwill written off, £25,000 . . .. 799,860
Reserves capitalised, £93,401 .. 706,459
1955 .. 74,515 1980- 10 p.c. = 51,370 727,624
1956 . . 81,213 1980 10 „ „ 58,020 750,817
Excludes reserve for depreciation ( £25,311 at
30/6/’56).
The 10 p.c. div. was comfortably covered,
for, after satisfying pref.-holders, earnings
came in at the rate of 14.1 p.c. on paid
capital, compared with 12.9, 8.7, 8.6 and
7.2 p.c. over the previous four years.
Reserves at £750,817 include £441,179
arising from the revaluation of fixed
assets early in 1955.
The continued growth of the fixed
assets can be seen from a comparison of
balance-sheet figures: ‘
1954. 1965. 1956.
Paid capital .. £500,008 £693,404 £593,404
Reserves .. .. 165,280 727,624 750,817
Depreciation res. .. 27,934 34,211 26,311
Mortgage .. .. 225,000 225,000 225,000
Creditors* . . 154,348 162,885 211,245
Final divs. % . . 22,006 29,010 29,010
£1,094,565 £1,772,184 £1,834,787
Property and equip-
ment . . . . 1,023,192 1,701,899 1,750,538
Stock . . . . 22,26 2 30,391 43,249
Book debts .. 20,611 35,84 4 36,500
Cash, etc. .. 3,500 4,500 4,500
Goodwill .. .. 25,000
£1,094,565 £1,772,134 £1,884,787
* Including provision for taxation.
Capital - expenditure for the term


GUARD
Ga&tv
stttitits Cls
PROTECTA L
RtgifiOdh^
Suitable for every type of business it records
•II Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —■
SYDNEY , Vf.
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH • ,
C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd*
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co- (Aust.)
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
> '
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
•with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3v), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
36in..
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Cither types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
In 5 Years, your £5OO will earn
£l3l's'-
IN THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£s's'-% LOAN
This Government-guaranteed
income far exceeds savings bank interest!
The more you invest for 5 years, the
greater the difference in interest!
• YOU DECIDE whether the N.S.W. Government will guarantee you this higher
interest for 5, 10 or 20 years.
• YOUR INTEREST is payable every six months. Have it credited direct to your
bank account.
• NO EXCHANGE TO PAY. Your Loan investment, regular interest payments
and repayment of principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the
Prospectus.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. Trust Funds—includ-
ing Superannuation, Provident, Church, Club and Medical Benefits—can earn
£5/5/- per cent each year.
• 10% DEPOSIT ACCEPTED. You will have until 15th November, 1956, to
pay the balance.
• YOUR INVESTMENT IS QUICKLY ARRANGED at any Commonwealth Trading
Bank, through a Stockbroker, or at the Sydney Water Board.
STEP-UP YOUR INCOME FOR THE NEXT
5 YEARS BY INVESTING TO-DAY!
Loan No. 156, issued at par, closes not later than 22nd September, 1956,
and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
W8L68A.56
amounted to £88,039’, fittings and
equipment increasing by £49,139,
while £38,900 was charged to
depreciation reserve. Freehold
properties are shown at 1954
valuation, £1.5 million. Funds
were provided, mainly by
ietained earnings, creditors, in-
cluding tax-provision, increas-
ing by £48,360, while the value
of stocks rose by £12,858 to
£43,249.
If current proposals
materialise, Sydney will have one
or more “luxury” hotels offering
a high standard of service and
comfort, and the modernisation
of the Australia over recent
years should prove its worth,
while the new capital will facili-
tate further improvements. The
directors are confident of satis-
factory earnings in the current
term, and it is hoped that the
Melbourne Olympic Games will
stimulate the tourist trade
throughout the country.
Supported by net tangible
assets of 475. Bd., the £1 ords.
last sold at 335. 6cf., to yield 6
p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution,
while the contributing shares,
paid to 10s. (balance due Jan.,
’57), brought 235. The 6 p.c.
prefs., with an asset backing of
£4l 10s., return 5.8 p.c. at 20s. 6d.
Marchants Holdings, Ltd.
Ayf ARCHANTS HOLDINGS,
LTD., was formed in 4951
to acquire the capital of the then-
-40-year-old Marchants, Ltd.,
manufacturers of cordials and
aerated-waters. In spite of the
low dividend-rate, averaging only
5.4 p.c. since formation, the
original shareholders have
received a reasonable return ; for
they collected 12 fully-paid ss.
shares in Marchants Holdings
for each £1 share held in the
old co. —a trebling of (Jhe face-
value of their original holding.
Price - control, unfavorable
seasons and rising costs kept
earnings down for the recon-
structed co.’s first two years,
but since then the 6 p.c. div. has
been well covered, enabling
satisfactory additions to reserves.
Adverse weather and highly
competitive trading made condi-
tions difficult in the soft-drink
trade duripg the term ended June
30 (May 31 for subsidiaries), but
the co. was successful in keeping
earnings close to those of the
previous year, even after heavier
tax and depreciation charges.
Net profit was down by £122
to £21,658, after allowing £14,247
for depreciation (up £2442) and
providing an extra £2500 for
taxation (£7000):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net 1 To Re-
Jne., Prft. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Asset revaluation,
£23,889 ' .. .. 1
Profit sale assets, ) 34,034 26,907
£15,576 .. ..I
’53.. 1,097 3 p.c. = 6,528 J
Prelim, expenses, £635 .. 27,542
’54..27,489 6 p.c. =13,056 14,433 13,109
Asset revaluation, etc., £2073' 11,036
’55..21,780 6 p.c. =13,056 8,724 2,312
Reserves.*
Profit sale assets, £214,466. . 212,154
’56..21,658 6 p.c. =13,056 8,602 220,756
* After deducting intangibles.
A capital-profit of £214,466 from
the sale of the co.’s main freev
hold at Redfern gave reserves a
welcome boost, and earnings
covered the 6 p.c. div. with
£8602 to spare, coming in at the
rate of 9.9 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 10, 12.6 and .04 p.c.
back to 1953.
Vacant possession of the
Redfern premises is not required
until May, 1958, and the co.
plans to introduce modern pro-
duction-techniques in a new
factory to be erected on land
bought at the Sydney suburb
of Chullora. Taken-over at
“cost” on the formation of the
co., the sale of freehold provided
a surplus which, for the first
time, lifted reserves well above
intangibles and, incidentally,
demonstrated the importance qf
showing the basis on which pro-
perties are valued in the
accounts:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1 1956.
Paid capital ..£217,602 £217,602
Reserves .. .. 220,756
Creditor's .. .. 49,339 65,014
Tax provision .. 7,686 7,377
Final div. .. .. 8,704 8,704
£283,331 £519,453
Freeholds .. .. 30,234 7,156
Plant, etc 59,709 60,140
Bottles and cases .. 104,660 144,819
Stocks . . . . 24,900 31,944
Debtors .. .. 6,763 226,717
Cash, etc 64,753 48,677
Intangibles .. .. 2,312
• £283,331 £519,453
Undistributed profits, creditors
(up £15,675) and cash holdings
(down £6076) have provided
most of the funds needed for
the heavier stodks (up £7044)
and the increase of £40,159 in
the value of bottles and cases,
an expensive item in the soft-
drink trade. The figure shown
for debtors includes the balance
(undisclosed) owing to the co.
from the sale of the Redfern
premises.
At 4s. Bd. the ss. stock-units
return 6.4 p.c. from the 6 p.c.
distribution, net tangible cover
amounting to 10ss Id.
Tableland Tin Dredging, N.L,
nnHE outlook for ord. share-
holders has been much
brighter since the co. decided in
1951 to abandon the old Return
Creek area for a new site at
Smith’s Creek, but the way share-
prices have moved (the ords. are
at present at around 225. com-
pared with 30s. a year ago) the
market expected more.
Shareholders who originally
put up their money in the co. in
1937 waited 10 years for their
first div., of 8 p.c., which was
repgated in 1948 and again in
the following two terms. Then,
in 1951, as the old leases were
almost worked out, the decision
was made to transfer operations
to Smith’s Creek, where dredging
operations were finally resumed
early in November, 1953. After
the pref.-div. arrears had been
wiped off, the ords. again came
into the picture in 1955 when
8 p.c. was distributed all round,
to prefs., ords. and deferreds
alike. In 1956, the second full
year of operations on the new
property, after adjusting tin-
stock values but before writing
off £50,000 (up £20,000) against
dredge transfer and re-establish-
ment costs, net profit shot up
£59,040 to £133,510, and all
classes of shares received a
13 p.c. div., absorbing £57,200:
June, Income. Exes. Profit. Dive.*
'££ £ £
W/off dredge a/c, £20,00Q ..
1954f.263,871 181,665 82.206 25,600
W/off dredge a/c, £30,000 . . 8 p.c.
1955..388,703 314,233 74,470 35,200
W/off dredge a/c, £50,000 .. 13 p.c.
1956. .473,552 340,042 133,510 57,200
* Rate shown is for ords., but amount also
includes divs. paid on 8 p.c. cum. part,
prefs. and deferreds. f Eight months.
Price of metallic tin rose from
£941 a ton at the beginning of
the year to £A9B2 at June 30.
The dredge moved on to
easier ground during the year,
and, despite a hold-up of a little
over a week last March, caused
by cyclonic rains in the north,
throughput was stepped up
586,533 cubic yards to 3,215,234
cubic yards for a recovery of
788 tons (up 95 tons) tin concen-
trates assaying 70.93 p.c. (up
1.15 p.c.) metallic tin at an
average cost of 22.153 pence
(down 1:007 pence) a cubic
yard:—
1955. 1956.
Hours worked .. 7,348 7,082
Cub. yds. treated .. 2,628,701 3,215,234
Area dredged (acres) 51,553 52,614
Ore recovered (tons) 693 788
Av. assay (p.c.) ... 69.78 70.93
Ore-yield
cub. yd. (oz.) .. 9.45 8.78
Costs cub. yd. (pence) 23.16 22.153
Installation of a new bucket-
band in the second half of the
year helped in the handling of
the bigger yardage, from which
the yield of tin-ore a cubic yard
was 8.780 z. as against 9.450 z.
in the previous term.
In 1952 the available yardage
at the Smith’s Creek property
was estimated to be sufficient to
keep the dredge in operation for
at least 12} years. Check-
boring of the lease is at present
being made by the co.’s technical
managers, G. H. and J. A.
Watson Pty., Ltd., to determine
the location of payable ground.
Following the heavy rains this
year, ample supplies of water are
stored in the co.’s two dams, and,
until power from the Tully Falls
scheme becomes available by
about March next year, its own
plant is generating adequate
electricity for both dredging and
pumping. A stripping conveyor
installed during the term will
enable the dredge to bypass
barren overburden and raise
total throughput.
At June 30 current assets of
£229,724 included £47,159 stores
and £178,375 in cash and bonds.
Creditors amounted to £235,445,
including £200,000 bank advance
covered by guarantee from the
Queensland Department of
Secondary Industries.


Womeu’s Letters
SYDNEY
September is a busy time in this town,
and last week we seemed to have eivery
kind of activity—except, of course, letter-
sorting. Some people tried to cope with
the post-office employees’ go-slow strike
by complying with every regulation (such
as spelling out “On Her Majesty’s
Service” in full); others depended on
the telephone, taxis and messengers;
while many just “stopped writing and said,
“Oh, didn’t you get my letter? Aren’t
those strikers awful!”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Elizabethan Theatre Ball certainly
created the right dramatic atmosphere for
its 1956 appearance on Wednesday night.
Theatre bpxes stood in the foyer, draped
in red velvet and lit by chandeliers, while
on a base, also of red velvet, stood a
6ft. statue of Queen Elizabeth I in cream
and gold papier-mache. Across the ceil-
ing of the hall itself airy festoons of
cream muslin were interspersed with
ivory-colored fans which seemed to float
in mid-aii - , and were reflected on the walls
in a fantastic and ethereal way by the
lights of the television-cameras.
The official table and the bandstand
were decorated with cloth-of-gold, giant
candelabra, clusters of golden gauze and
lacquered leaves and berries. All the
tables in the hall were lavishly decorated
with flowers or a theatrical motif.
The dresses were particularly lovely.
Welcoming the guest-of-honor, Common-
wealth Administrator Sir John Northcott,
the president of the ball-committee, Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere, wqre a sheath-dress of
cream lace’ and carried a cream ostrich-
feather fan. The most beautiful gown of
the evening was adjudged to be that worn
by Wendy Lloyd-Jones, a slim dress of
grey-and-tan patterning. Second was
Mrs. Lloyd Martin’s white silk-organdie
sprinkled with organdie-flowers, and third
June Salter’s pink taffeta with diamente.
Mrs. Dudley Goldman’s 18th-century
painted fan won first-prize, with Pamela
Macarthur-Onslow’s antique-lace fan in
second place. Mrs. Tom Bateman, who
collected the lucky watch won by her
small daughter Mary-Jane, wore pink
brocade and carried an ostrich-feather
fan.
There were about 800 guests at the ball,
the proceeds of which go to the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust.
☆☆ " ☆
An Australian writer, Barbara Vernon,
is the author of the Independent Theatre’s
new play, “Naked Possum,” which is a
sort of “whodunit” set in the Malay
jungle during the terrorist risings. It has
a remarkably attractive set (by Noel
Rubie) and a most impressive perform-
ance by Owen Weingott, while the plot
has sufficient intricacy and suspense to
keep one guessing. Barbara Vernon, who
is a radio-writer on Station 2NZ, Inverell
(N.S.W.), was formerly a member of the
W.A.A.A.F.S. This is her first stage-play.
☆' ☆ ☆
An annual institution of great charm
is the huge cocktail-party given by the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, Pro-
fessor S. H. Roberts, and Mrs. Roberts
in the University’s Great Hall. Last
Friday 500 of Sydney’s distinguished
citizens were greeted by the host and
hostess, and chatted in the spacious hall,
which was decorated with great bowls
of arum-lilies. Among the guests was
Mrs. Allan Williams, rather worried about
her husband, who had to go into the
Mater hospital that day. Dr. E. M. Stang,
from Melbourne, and formerly Director
of Child Welfare in W:A., was an inter-
state visitor who came along with the
J. G. Seppelts. Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Clune were also present, Mrs. Clune
wearing an intriguing tan-colored
flowerpot-hat in brushed-melusine.
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, who was respon-
sible for the lavish table-decorations at
the Elizabethan Ball, also held a cocktail-
party on Friday night, the venue her flat
at the Astor. Purpose was to hand over
a cheque for U.N.0., the proceeds of the
International Ball, which was such a
success earlier in the year.
# V V
Mrs. F. E. Studdy, who has given so
much of her talents and time to public
service during her long life, celebrated
her 92nd birthday at Cammeray, Sydney,
last Saturday. Mrs. Studdy was a
foundation-member of the Country
Women’s Association and its second
State president.
☆ ☆
There were two first-nights during the
week. The Katherine Dunham dancers at
the Tivoli brought along a .greater
number of the smart young set to the
Tivoli than has been seen for some
time.
Brilliant and vital Katherine Dunham,
a dancer of outstanding accomplishments,
is also a scholar of note. She has studied
anthropology from her college days, and
has been awarded Fellowships from the
Rosenwald and Rockefeller Foundations
for special studies in the West Indies,
taking Master’s degree in anthropology at
the University of Chicago with a thesis
on “The Dances of Haiti, Their Form
and Function." She has almost literally
danced her way around the world, having
toured many countries of Europe, as well
as North and South America, and has
been successful in theatre, film and tele-
vision. With her company of 28 members,
she started her Sydney season at the
Tivoli on Friday night. Photo by Harry
Jay.
Although spring is making a very
leisurely entry this year, the flower-
shows were given a good premiere by tHe
Orchid Festival at the Town Hall during
the week. It is surprising to find many
people saying, “I don’t like orchids. They
are a wgird shape and they have no scent
—not to compare with the rose, for
instance.” But those who go to see this
annual orchid-show are quickly con-
verted, such is the perfection of the
flowers in shape and color.
It was interesting to hear that in the
26 years that the Orchid Society of
N.S.W. has been established women have
steadily gained ground as orchid-growers,
and this year won six of the 21 awards,
prizewinners including Mrs. F. Spurway,
Mrs. S. Hayter, Mrs. F. McKinney, Mrs.
L. Peaty, Mrs. J. Lucas and Mrs. D.
Moore. ,
☆ ☆ ☆
Interesting speakers at the 51st annual
meeting of the Sydney Day Nursery
Association included Madame R.
Agbayani, who spoke of child-care in
the Philippines ; Mr. R. H. Hicks (Under-
secretary of the, Child Welfare Depart-
ment) ; Mrs. Jean Daly (who made a plea
for sympathetic understanding for the
work for children done by United Nations
on an international level); and Mrs. C. J.
Tilden, whose account of the Schools of
the Air, by which children in the far-
outback get their lessons by pedal-wireless,
proved very interesting indeed. Mrs. H. H.
McNall, presiding at the meeting in the
Woojloomooloo nursery-school, read a
telegram of good-wishes from the presi-
dent, Mrs. W. P. McElhone, who is in
Londori.
☆ ☆ ☆
Art-shows of the week included the
opening of the Royal Art Society’s 76th.
The preview-party, held the same night
as the Elizabethan Ball, put rather a
strain on president Mr. Erik Langker,
who was also chairman of the decor-
committee for the ball. His work at the
Troc. during the day, his appearance at
the Education Department Gallery and
his return to the Troc. later certainly
qualified him for the title recently given
him: “Mr. Erik (Übiquitous) Langker.”
Other art-shows included the joint-
exhibition of Margo and Gerry Lewers
at David Jones’ Art Gallery, which was
opened by Mr. Ernest Burbridge. Gerry
Lewers’s wooden bowls for salad, fruit,
etc., are among the things most likely to
raise the standard of household-
decoration in Australia. They seemed to
acquire little red stickers rapidly.
MELBOURNE
The Battle of Britain Ball at the St.
Kilda Palais d.e Dqnse was glittering and
enjoyable. Arranged by the R.A.A.F.
Women’s Association to assist their
Memorial Scholarship Fund, and with
Lady Williams as president of the ball-
committee, it had decor in keeping with
the occasion. There was a backdrop of
St. Paul’s Cathedral with Spitfires flying
in the background ; round the bandstand
were miniatures of Spitfires and jet-
models ; the lovely leadlight window
which commemorates the Battle of Britain
was also prominent; red, white and blue
flowers were used for the official fables ;
in a bed of vivid blue tulle were large
posies of camellias, freezias and grape-
hyacinths, and tall scarlet candles pro-
vided a blaze of color. A memorial-
window in which was a bowl of white
camellias and white and palest-yellow
daffodils was at the back of the official
enclosure.
Official guests were received by Mrs.
E. C. Wackett (Federal president of the
R.A.A.F. Woriien's Association) and her
husband, Air-Vice-Marshal Wackett.
The Governor and Lady Brooks, accorm
panied by members of their personal staff,
were present. Lady Brooks chose a. long-
waisted gown of pale-apricot satin, the
bodice heavily encrusted with bugle-beads
and mother-of-pearl. Lady Selleck's
bouffant gown of soft creamy-beige
nylon-tulle had a swathing of eau-de-Nil
satin at the waist, which finished in a bow
and sash-ends, and at the shoulder were
three French roses with eau-de-Nil leaves.
Mrs. Wackett’s gown of pink guipure-
lace featured an off-the-shoulder bodice
finished with a deep fichu-collar. A sash
of plum-colored velvet with sash-ends
was a charming contrast. Lady Williams
wore deep-camellia-pink crystal-faille,
and at the back of the graceful skirt was
a trail of pink and red roses.
Guest of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for Air Force Week, Air-Marshal
Sir Harry Broadhurst, Chief of Bomber
Command, was in the official party.
Chief of Air Staff Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley were
there, she in Ming-blue nylon-tulle, the
skirt bouffant, the bodice covered with
embroideries. Former Chief of Air Staff
Sir George Jones and Lady Jones brought
a large party to the ball. Lady Jones
chose a lovely goWn of palest-pink and
silver brocade.
Anita, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Arnold Riches, of Burwood, chose a
modelling-career when she finished her
education at St. Mark’s Girls’ Grammar
School, Camberwell. She has appeared
in many fashion-shows. Tall and slim,
Anita is a skilled horsewoman —she rode
the winner, Astra Lad, in the Ladies’
Point to Point at the Findon Harriers’
Hunt Club meeting at Wotiert.
Colonel John J. Hussey, jnr., the new
U.S. Air Force Attache, and Mrs.
Ifussey gave a party at No. 9 Darling-
street for 150 guests to welcome Lieut.-
Colopel Collas G. Harris, his new
Assistant Attache, and Mrs. .Harris. The
hostess’s short frock of champagne-tinted
satin had a full skirt, and the bodice
featured threequarter-length sleeves. Mrs.
Harris added to her black silk-taffeta
ballerina frock a rose-pink taffeta stole
striped in silver-grey.
Mrs. Mark Clements chose a hand-
knitted frock of azure-blue wool; Mrs.
W. W. Killough wore a black metallic-
jersey frock under a black nylon-velvet
coat with black fox-fur cuffs ; Mrs. Don
Anderson’s black frock was worn with
a tiny white flower-cap; Mrs. Erwin
Fauser had an attractive pastel-pink
beret trimmed with diamente ornaments
to offset her black frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
I +
St. John’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the wedding of Helen Margaret, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. lan Mac-
dougall, of Toorak. With her gown of
magnolia duchesse-satin, designed with a
crossover V-neckline, and the skirt end-
ing in a long train, the bride wore an
heirloom Brussels-lace veil, lent by the
bridegroom’s mother. A coronet of
orange-blossom held the veil, and she
carried a bouquet of cream daffodils and
hyacinths. In attendance were the bride’s
sister Elizabeth, Deborah Grimwade and
Judy Gilder. They wore ballerina frocks
of magnolia pure-silk-organza with
sugar-pink satin sashes threaded below
the waist and ending in butterfly-bows.
In their hair were Alice-bands of pink
petals, and they carried pink and cream
orchids. The bridegroom, John William,
is the eldest son of Sir Alexander and
Lady Happell, of Toorak. His brother
David was best man, and groomsmen
were David Lee and Jim Court. Recep-
tion was held at the home of the bride.
Mrs. R. W. Blake, whose husband is
the Canadian Government Trade Com-
missioner in Victoria, was hostess at a
farewell-party, at her home in Toorak to
Mrs. A. Irwin, wife of the retiring High
Commissioner for Canada in Australia.
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin, who have been here
for three years, will leave on September
22 for Brazil, where Mr. Irwin will be
Canadian Ambassador. Luncheon-guests
included Mrs. J. K. Lennon, Mrs. Ralph
Wilson, Dr. Janet Cooper, Mrs. Arthur
Wilks, Mrs. Bernard Brown and Miss
Carmel Hicks. *
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. W. K. Burnside (president of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner
Auxiliary) and her committee held a
successful luncheon and Olympic hat-
parade at Giro’s. Appropriately, Lady
Bridgeford, whose husband is chief
executive officer of the Olympic Games
Organising Committee, not only opened
the function but donated two tickets for
the Games as prizes.
Lady Bridgeford wore a carbon-blue
wool ensemble with an orchid-pink
platter-hat laden with matching roses.
Mrs. Burnside’s choice was a brown
tweed suit and a pillbox hat in lime-
yellow trimmed with lily-of-the-valley.
The hats in the parade, worn by well-
known mannequins, were from the
William Beale salon. The Lady Mayoress
(Lady Selleck), Mrs. Roy Chambers (presi-
dent of the Royal Melbourne Hospital
Auxiliaries), Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Miss
Annie Danks, Mrs. David Raeburn-
Brown (Rosewood, N.S.W.) and Mrs. R.
Breddon (Tumbarumba, N.S.W.) were
among those who attended.
CANBERRA
Foreign diplomats, public servants and
Canberra residents celebrated Brazil s
national day at a late-afternoon reception
given at the Legation by the Charge
d’Affaires for Brazil, Senhor Quintino S.
De Seta, and Senhora De Seta.
Senhor and Senhora De Seta received
the guests, she wearing a black-and-gold
lame frock with a stole of bronze organza
threaded with gold.
Among the guests were the High Com-
missioner for U.K., Sir Stephen Holmes,
and Lady Holmes ; the Ambassador for
France, Monsieur Renaud Sivan; the
High Commissioner for Canada, Mr.
Arthur Irwin, and Mrs. Irwin, who are
leaving Canberra for Brazil, where Mr.
Irwin will become Ambassador for
Canada; the High Commissioner for
South Africa, Mr. J. K. Uys, and Mrs.
Uys ; the Minister for China, Dr. Chen
Tai Chu, and Madame Chen; the
Charge d’Affaires for Italy, Signor F.
Benuzzi, and Signora Benuzzi; the Com-
mandant of the Royal Military College,
Major-General I. R. Campbell, and Mrs.
Campbell; the secretary of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, Mr. W. A. McLaren,
and Mrs. McLaren; Mr. and Mrs. B.
Roberts ; Dr. and Mrs. P. Calvert; Mr.
and Mrs. G. Self; and Mr. and Mrs.
S. A. M. Minto.


SHORT TERM LOAN
required on freehold brick residence
pending settlement approved War
Service advance maximum period 1
year interest 10% p.a.
SMERDON (Pub. Acct.)
Box 51 P.O.
MIRANDA
Missing Friend
MRS. SOPHIA EDITH DUNSTONE de-
ceased (formerly MISS SOPHIA EDITH
MYERS), late of Piangil and of Windsor,
in Victoria, Married Woman, deceased.
Would all persons being brothers or
sistere or half-brothers or -sisters of the
abovenamed, or being grandchildren of
MRS. MYERS, who re-married and is
now deceased, please communicate with
the undersigned, where they may hear
something to their advantage.—CAßDEN
k GREEN, Solicitors, Nyahwest, Victoria.
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
[THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
11
Advance booking essential.
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needleqraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. M.C.B of 1956.
BETWEEN LORRAINE MARION EMILY
FALLS Petitioner and GRAHAM
WOOLSLEY FALLS Respondent.
TO GRAHAM WOOLSLEY FALLS late of
8 Hearne Street Mortdale Sydney in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that the said LORRAINE MARION
EMILY FALLS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honourable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds that you have without just
cause or excuse wilfully deserted her and
without any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the Office of the
Registrar of this Honourable Com! at
Canberra on or before the Nineteenth day
of October One thousand nine hundred
and Fifty-six and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner may
proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding
A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. DATED this Eleventh
day of September, One thousand nine hun-
dred and fifty-six.—M. S. C. JOHNSTON,
Acting Registrar of the Supreme Court.
B. R. GALLEN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 8.M.1. Chambers, Alinga Street,
City, Canberra, A.O.T.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 2216 of 1955
TO JOHN JAMES DAVID CROWE late
of 67 Lords Road Leichhardt. —TAKE
NOTICE that Elizabeth Crowe has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2216 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd of November 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from L. B.
•FEENEY, MILLETT & CO., Solicitors,
of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO JAMES WILLIAM McWORTHY late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that FAITH
McWORTHY has filed a Petition No.
2815 of 1956 for divorce under the law of
New Siouth Wales on the grounds of de-
sertion without cause continuously for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney New South Wales by the
28th day of November 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MR. F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, of
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO STEFAN LOCHOWICZ. —T AK E
NOTICE that HELENA LOCHOWICZ has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 95S of
1955 on the grounds that you have with-
out just cause or excuse deserted her for
three (3) years and upwards and is asking
that the Court will exercise its discretion
in her favour under Section 84 (1) of
the Marriage Act 1928 (Victoria) If you
desire to defend, you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 28th , day of
November 1956 You may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. L. D. SERISIER & CO., Soli-
citors, 193-195 Summer Street, Orange,
or their town Agents, MESSRS. PETER
G. KEARNEY & CO., of 60 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
faw/ys /fetr/w
MODERN, HEALTHY SANITATION
FOR THOSE LIVING
IN NO N-SEWERED AREAS
Jl:
IS,
$
•tr Self cleaning—uses no chemicals.
* The benefits of sewer in non-
sewered areas.
Vr Healthy and hygienic
Modern pedestals in a range of
colours
Designed to meet and comply with
N.S.W. Health Dept. Regulations
Healthy, hygienic, TROUBLE-FREE
SANITATION all the year round
with a Humes Septic Closet. You owe
it to your family—yourself—to pro-
vide this •' modern system in your
home! Write now —or ring Ken
Williams at 8X4165 for full details!
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET
SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN: Rydalmere, Adamstown, Grafton,
Lismore, Queanbeyan, Tamworth, Harden.
POST THIS COUPON r
To HUMES LIMITED, 43 Margaret St., Sydney.
Please send —free and post free —your Septic Closet leaflet
and three sets of plans for me to present to my local council.
Name.
Address...
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Katherine Dunham Dancers
The Bulletin’s Melbourne
Showman paid Miss Dunham’s
dancers the compliment of
reviewing them three times, with
the concluding advice that any
Melbournites who had missed
the show would be well advised
to hie themselves to Sydney and
make up for the omission.
After the opening night at
Sydney Tiv., however, the
present commentator would
advise anyone in Melbourne so
inclined not to spend any
money on fares for some time
yet—if the show gets the
audiences it merits, Sydney will
fill it to house-full capacity for
a long time.
Since there seems to be no
point in trying to put into words
what these dancers put into the
grace, strength, expressiveness
and unflagging virility of their
dancing, one is tempted to say,
“See ’em, brother, see ’em,” and
leave it at that.
One is tempted further, how-
ever, to look for comparisons ;
to try to find something in
common between these American,
West Indian, South American,
African and Mexican dances and
the traditional Russian ballet.
And, fishing in those deep
waters, it would seem that,
whereas the classic ballet to
which one has grown accustomed
is something distilled over
generations from whatever
inspired it, Miss Dunham’s
Negro, South American and
West Indian dancers have a
much closer feeling for the
inspiration of their dances.
How else explain the remark-
able combination of sensitiveness
and raw leaping vitality in both
the dances and the dancers? That
is not to suggest that any item or
member of Miss Dunham’s team
might achieve the clear, classic
beauty of, say, a Peggy Sager
dancing “Swan Lake.” But it
does make one wonder what sort
of barbarous life they could
inject into something like “Prince
Igor” ; and one would certainly
like to see a dancer as graceful
and expressive as Vanoye
Aikens, with all his catlike
sinuosity and electric tensions, in
“L’Apres-midi d’un Faun.”
And one would certainly like
to see . . .
But, perhaps, after all, it is
better simply to repeat, “See ’em,
brother, see ’em.” And, of
course, in the meantime, to
follow the Melbourne Showman’s
example oneself and see them
again . . . and again . . .
*l* ♦> *
Fernando Germani
The Vatican organist, Fern-
ando Germani, may have felt, as
if he were playing in a glasshouse
when he sat down at the new
organ in the new Wilson Hall at
the University of Melbourne—
anything less like the dignified
atmosphere of St. Peter's could
scarcely be imagined.
If so, however, it didn’t show
in his playing. Nor did. the
allegedly bad acoustics of the
building appear in the music
which poured out from beneath
his feet and fingers. His Bach
and his Cesar Franck were
iesplendent, especially the two
Franck sonatas, the deeper notes
of the instrument sounding like
great waves on the point of
breaking.
The organist showed another
facet of his art when he played
Hindemith’s Sonata No. 1. He
brought out of it such an amaz-
ing variety of tones and colors
that at times it seemed as if
a whole orchestra was playing.
Gilsullivan /
The Gilsullivanites are still
warbling their way through their
repertoire at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, latest additions, to the
sacred, canon being “The Pirates
of Penzance,” preceded, in
accordance with tradition, by
“Trial by Jury.”
Leading-ladies and -gentlemen
are in as good, or as indifferent,
voice as ever, the chorus do their
part with complete unanimity
and Grahame Clifford, as a
major-general, follows the
custbmary line with due rever-
ence to his great predecessors.
Helen Roberts makes a more
than ordinarily melodious
Mabel.
Next on the list is “The
Yeomen of the Guard” —the
only one of the operas where
Gilbert almost struck the note
of tragedy in his libretto and
Sullivan almost followed him
with his music.
Artbursts
Shapes
The shape of any of the
wooden bowls and spoons by
Gerald Lewers at David Jones’,
Sydney, is essentially just as
abstract as the various construc-
tions of lines and planes painted
by Margo Lewers in this joint
exhibition; but a bowl or a
spoon has a purpose and there-
fore a meaning.
Maybe an abstract painting
also has a meaning of a kind.
It is a decoration. It may
suggest, or half-suggest, many
different ideas and landscapes.
It is a sort of silent music.
But this commentator rather
likes to hear his music; hnd
thinks that .a painting should be
more than a decoration and a
vague suggestion. So the pieces
of wood, simple enough forms
of sculpture though they ,are,
really seem the better works of
art. You just can’t bite on the
paintings as you can on the
spoons. '>•
But at least Margo Lewers
paints her abstracts without
crudity. They .are at once
smooth and forceful, decorative
and deep; very pleasant as far’
as they go. And some of the
watercolors go further, into a
fine sharp blaze of color —
notably “Flowers (2)” and
“Composition for Mosaics.”
But there, for even the “composi-
tion” seems pretty clearly to
have something to do with cats
and goldfish, you have
meaning. . .
As for the bowls, they are
captivating. Mr. Lewers not
only makes useful salad-bowls,
.and has a flair for flaring shapes ;
he has also a most sensitive feel-
ing for wood its grains, its
textures, its movement, the way
the tree itself would like to
behave if it thought of becoming
a salad-bowl. And his woods
are fascinating in themselves—
mangrove, blackboy, banksia
and woollybutt.
❖ £« *
Royal Art Society
With few exceptions,
exhibitors at the annual exhibi-
tion of Royal Art Society at the
Education Department’s Gal-
leries, Sydney, do not venture
beyond a dutiful courtship of
painting. And, while a dutiful
courtship is certainly preferable
to the assaults of some artists
upon their Muse, a little petting
in the park, or even' a mild
seduction, would be a relief
from polite exchanges on the
drawing-room-sofa.
The exceptions are Norman
Lindsay, who meets his Muse
with his usual vigor and enter-
prise in a flashing watercolor,
“Romany Revels,” and an
equally brilliant oil, “Pirates on
the March”; and G. K, Town-
shend who, with several water-
colors, demonstrates his
apparently inexhaustible facility
in that medium —his “Storm,
Jamberoo,' ? bought by the
N. S. Wales Gallery, is a very
nice acquisition for that iristitu-
lion.'
Other paintings which separate
either by general solidity of
technique or by momentary
flashes of atmosphere include
James R. Jackson’s sunlit “Sand
Quarries, Botany”; Howard
Ashton’s “The Blue Through
the Trees,” for its airless
brilliance; Robert Johnson’s
paintings of Central Australia,
as unexciting as they are un-
deniably impressive; H. A.
Hanke’s small, soft and pleas-
ing “Afternoon in the Valley”;
and the paintings of Graeme
Inson and Albert Rydge, notable
for the fact that the stamp of
Meldrum is so indelibly upon
them that it is practically im-
possible to tell them apart.
Among the portraits, Joshua
Smith’s self-portrait and one of
Mrs. Joan Rainbow, and Mary
Edwell-Burke’s self - portrait
stand out in undistinguished
company ; while in the flower-
pieces it is hard to fipd any
living naturalness except per-
haps in Reg Campbell’s “Shasta
Daisies” and V. Juradowitch’s
“Still Life” —nicely conceived,
but, on closer acquaintance, not
so well executed.
Talkies
“Strange Lady in Town”
(Sydney Mayfair): The story of
a woman doctor who, through
prejudice against her sex, leaves
her native Boston in the ’eighties
to set up her shingle in a small
New Mexico town, only to find
that the one other doctor there
has the same one-eyed views.
Greer Garson’s personality
dominates the lively proceedings
and Dana Andrews is the other
medico whose prejudices gradu-
ally melt under the Garson
charm. Cameron Mitchell etches-
in a neat piece of work as the
lady’s gambler-brother whose
escapades threaten to wreck her
practice.
“Blood Alley” (Sydney Plaza):
It’s a toss-up whether impossi-
bilities or improbabilities pre-
ponderate in this account of a
mass-escape to Hong Kong of
the entire inhabitants of a Red
China coastal village. John
Wayne, in his now-standardised
role of a tough Yankee mariner
whose rough exterior hides a
heart of gold, pilots the crazy
paddlewheel-ferry to safety
through a terrific bathtub-storm
and, from the way he per-
petually swings the wheel, the
craft should have been going
round in circles. Lauren Bacall
simpers at his side and keeps
asserting, with complete uncon-
viction, that he’ll never master
her.
“Desert Sands” (Sydney
Palace): Most notable features
in this worst-ever Foreign Legion
adventure opus are a scriptful
of heavily-whiskered cliches, and
an Arab chieftain who has a
complexion like a Sydney
typist’s in midwinter and who
punctuates the dreary -doings
with such gems of pure Arabic
as “Yep, I hee-ard the nooze!”


A Moral in Molasses
By H. CLIVE MORTON
WE didn’t want to go to
Brisbane much, Gilly
and I. By a miracle we
had found a snake-
worm patch near the tea-tree
swamp, .when the jewfish were
hungry in the creek, and this had
never happened before.
Besides, O’Shaunnesy’s More-
ton Bay ashes were heavy with
Blue Mountain parrots, even the
branches close to the ground,
and Gilly’s father had blown a
tractor-tyre with its inner-tube
promise of a hundred shanghai-
rings at the beginning of the
parrot season.
All these things formed a cycle
of such incredible wonder it
could never be repeated. And
Gilly’s brother Nick had, added
to all this amazement by deciding
to make a fortune.
We discovered this when we
went to the shed to ' borrow' a
shovel for worm-digging. Nick
sat hunched on a petrol-drum
gazing with rapt attention at his
lorry as if he bad never seen it
before. Gilly experimentally
took Ihe shovel from its place
against the wall, looked question-
ingly at Nick and laid it across
his shoulder. He took a tenta-
tive step and paused.
Nick remained silent.
Gilly looked at me worriedly.
I shook my head in bewilder-
ment. We lingered a moment,
then walked from the shed.
Gilly’s father saw us from
across the yard.
“Did Nick say you could have
that shovel?” he asked suspi-
ciously.
“He saw us take it and never
said anything,” Gilly explained.
Gilly’s father snorted his dis-
belief as he walked towards us.
Nick looked up at his footsteps.
“You know,” he said slowly,
“there’s money in molasses.”
Gilly’s father stood exploring
the remark.
“Yes,” Nick went on, “you
can buy it at the mill and send
it to New Zealand and make a
good cop on it, a bloke was
telling me in town last night.
It’s just a matter of carting it
from the mill and storing it
until a boat comes in. This
bloke reckoned that if you went
in for it in a big way there was
a fortune in it.”
Gilly’s father spat reflectively.
“They told me there was a
fortune in cane, too,” he recalled.
“It’s always been too damn’ far
in for me to find it.”
“But this is different. All you
have to do is put the drums on
a lorry and cart them to the
wharf and the money’s in the
bank. Don’t have to buy plant;
the lorry’s there and everything.
You’d be a moral to make
money at it.”
He glanced inquiringly at
•Gilly and me. “You bring that
bloody shovel back when you’ve
finished with it,” he said warn-
ingly.
“Do you think,” he asked his
father, “a man ought to slip in to
the mill and see Macintyre?
Have a talk to him about getting
a molasses contract? He’d know
qll about it, wouldn’t he?”
“Well,” Gilly’s father declared,
“he’d be a great sort of a mill-
manager if he didn’t, wouldn’t
he?”
Nick stood up. “It’s no good
wasting time,” he said decisively.
“I’ll drive in and see him straight
away.”
“Now, hang on,” Gilly’s father
pointed out. “There’s a farmers’
meeting on today, to pick a dele-
gate for the annual sugar con-
ference. Macintyre won’t have
time to see you.”
Nick halted. “Why aren’t you
at the meeting?” he asked in
surprise. ,
Gilly’s father liked farmers’
meetings.
“Oh,” he said disgustedly,
“I wouldn’t go to that meeting.
It’s just waste of time sending a
delegate from our mill down to
that conference. They never do
any good. Just look at their
record. Take last year,
f’rinstance. Our bloke went
down with five motions for con-
ference from here'and they voted
four of them. The year
before wasn’t much better.
Waste of money, that’s all. Those
Mackay fellows speak against
us and we lose our motions all
the time.”
He dismissed annual con-
ferences with a wave> of his hand.
“If you want to do any good
at them,” he declared, “you’ve
got to send someone down there
who can really speak, not waste
money with the blokes ;we send
every year.”
Nick nodded his head
solemnly. “You’re right,” he
agreed. “It’s a pity the farmers
around here haven’t realised it.
Ifshould be explained to them.”
Gilly’s father scratched his
chin thoughtfully. “You know,”
he decided, ’“I think I’ll go in to
that meeting today after all.
Someone’s got to point out these
things to them and put them on
the fight track.”
“That’s a good idea,” Nick
said. “I’ll go in with you. Maybe
a man’ll have a chance to see
Macintyre about the molasses
some time during the day.”
and Gilly’s father
returned from town while
we were showing Gilly's mother
a stick of jewfish.
“How did the meeting go,
dear?” Gilly’s mother asked
from the gate.
“Oh,” Gilly’s father said
abstractedly, “good—quite good,
as a matter of fact.”
“Did you tell them how silly
they were sending down dele-
gates. who couldn’t get the
votes?”
Gilly’s father surveyed our
jewfish with novel interest.
“Yes,” he said at last, “I told
them.”
“And did they decide not to
send anyone this year?” Gilly’s
mother persisted.
“Well . . . not exactly,” Gilly’s
father admitted.
“What he’s trying to say,”
Nick grinned from the lorry, “is
that he put up such a great
argument when he made his
speech against sending a dele-
gate down there, that the meet-
ing unanimously decided he was
just the man they wanted as a
delegate. He and Macintyre are
going to the conference”
“Oh, that’s wonderful,” Gilly’s
mother declared. “It’d be a per-
fect opportunity to take the two
boys to Brisbane with you. Mrs.
Macintyre is certain to be going
and I know she’d look after
them while they were away.”
Gilly’s eyebrows rose. “Oh,
don’t worry about us,” he put in
hastily.
“Nonsense,” his father de-
clared. “You’ll have the time of
your lives.” 1
We watched the fading
promise of jewfishing and
parrot-shooting.
“Maybe Nick would like to
go instead?” Gilly suggested
hopefully.
“No chance,” Nick said with
crippling heartiness. “I’ve got a
contract for two-hundred drums
of molasses with Macintyre. You
blokes go to your conference and
I’m a moral to have a fortune
made for you when you get
back . .
Actually Nick began the first
stages of making a fortune
before we went to Brisbane. He
had trouble finding the 200
empty 44-gallon drums. Even
with the 150 Macintyre pro-
vided, the 10 the shire council
had forgotten lying about beside
the road, and the two old petrol-
drums behind the shed that the
oil-company had overlooked, he
was still short. He viewed the
lack without concern.
“I’ll pick up some more as
I go along,” he told Gilly’s
father in the shed. “The main
thing is to get the first hundred
on the boat next week.”
“Um —that’s right,” Gilly’s
father said vacantly. He
walked out into the yard with
his hands clasped behind his
back.
“And it is my contention, Mr.
Chairman and gentlemen,” he
told two startled peewees on the
figtree, “that canecutters should
provide their own cane-
knives” —
He paused beside the saw-
bench and addressed it with
raised palms.
“It is only fair and reason-
able,” he declared with rising
volume, “that contractors should
provide their own tools of
trade”
The peewees fluttered from the
tree and wheeled overhead.
Gilly’s father’s gesture ended
with an abrupt wiping motion
at his forehead.
“Bloody dirty birds,” he
said indignantly and strode
towards the house.
Gilly and I were sitting in the
guava-tree near the stables when
Gilly’s father walked to the car-
shed. Gilly munched at a guava
and eyed his father knowingly.
“Betcha the old man’s going
up to see Mr. Macintyre,” he
decided. “He was up half last
night practising the resolutions
for the conference next month.”
“What’s a resolution?” I
wondered.
“Oh,” said Gilly learnedly,
“theyre things you take to the
conference. You get electric
light on farms, and good blades
in cane-knives and that . . . And
they stop the firms from robbing
you when you buy bolts. If they
had a conference all the time
they wouldn’t be able to rob you
hardly at all, the old man says.”
We gazed out of the tree as
Gilly’s father reversed out into
the yard. He thrust his head
from the window and eyed the
guava in Gilly’s hand distaste-
fully.
“Don’t go eating too many of
those plugg e r s, now,” he
warned.
Gilly watched the departing
car with great longing.
“I wish we were going too.”
“Why?”
Gilly regarded my social
ignorance with great tolerance.
“Everyone likes to go to the
manager’s,” he explained care-
fully. “He’s got two guava-
trees.”
T}OR three days Nick worked
very hard carting the
molasses, from the mill to an
igloo he had rented for storage
in town. Expenses made small
inroads into his contemplated
profits. The first day cost him
a new pair of working-boots.
Nick waved the cost away, as
he examined his great toe on the
back steps.
“Aw,” he said, “those boots
were just about beggared. I’d
’ve had to buy a new-pair for
the season anyway;”
He moved his toe experi-
mentally.
“A man will have to be care-
ful with the new ones, though, ’’
he admitted as he limped into
the house. “It’s too dear if you
ruin boots dropping a full drum
of molasses on your foot every
day.”
Nick’s pride was a more costly
item It moved only in the
avenue of his truck’s perform-
ance ; and, thus being con-
centrated, had great intensity.
When the man who made a
career out of supervising the
filling of drums at the mill's
storage-tank claimed that the
truck’s engine would not haul
seven tons of molasses, Nick saw
challenge in the statement.
In it, too, was personal affront.
The engine, its components from
seven .separate Army-disposal
sales, combining the products of
two major, opposition, motor-
manufacturers, had been hybri-
dised with Nick’s skill. Actually
it hauled the seven tons with
ease. And even Gilly’s father,
who discovered fresh horror and


Jgs>
mm
■2m?,
mm
3*
mm
m
Luxuriously Better
A Sports Coat with personality
S')
~V
m
m
CLOTHES
Stamina Sports Coats seem to be tailored
just for you. They fit so well —so neatly
and comfortably. They look so smart . . .
so luxuriously smart the kind of neat,
crisp styling that gives you a “ lift.”
Stamina’s “ All Purpose ” Sports Coats
have a personality of their own a look
of sparkling smartness, plus quality in the
styling, cutting, making and materials.
For Stamina clothes are made from the
famous, wear-resistant “ Crusader ” cloth,
woven from pure Australian Merino wool,
guaranteed to give years of hard wear, and
guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
For perfect fit, perfect comfort for a
sports coat with personality , you just can’t
beat Stamina.
ASK FOR
Stamina
Sports Coats
" TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5.C.5,113
indignity with the opening of
each new garage-bill, admitted
that the £ll the- proprietor
charged Nick to repair the rear
springs broken through overload,
was reasonable.
The news that a boat for New
Zealand had arrived in port
charged Nick's enthusiasm. He
rose with the retiring curlews
and roared away to the igloo.
Gilly and I were very surprised
to meet him returning, as we
walked across the bridge at the
bottom of the cutting on our
way to the jewfish hole.
He surveyed us with the
corner-pinched eyes of early
rising.
“Missed out,” he explained.
“Bloody wharfies went on strike,
just as I got there. Reckoned the
sugar was too soft to load. The
boat shot through. Looks like
a man will have to wait a while
for another one.”
“Can we come next time?”
Gilly asked eagerly.
“If the boat comes in before
you go to Brisbane, you can,”
Nick promised.
"Do you get right on to the
wharf?”
Nick nodded.
“Gee,” Gilly declared, “that’d
be bonzer!”
He spat appreciatively Into the
' creek, put hands on hips, and
leaned backwards.
“I’ve always wanted to have
a look at a bloody wharfie,” he
confided . . .
TT was a pity the next boat
came the same day as we
left for Brisbane. Macintyre
drove his car into the yard just
as Nick left with the truck. We
liked Mrs. Macintyre. She never
patted us on the head in public.
Gilly’s mother beckoned us
away from the car into the
privacy of the laundry, armed
herself with a handkerchief and
attacked our ears with great
ferocity. Satisfied, She stepped
back and surveyed us critically.
“You won’t need those in
Brisbane,” she said at last. Gilly
met her glance with inspired
innocence.
“Come on, cortte on,” she
ordered with outstretched hand.
“Aw, gee, Mum,” Gilly pro-
tested plaintively.
“Come on,” she insisted. “The
car’s waiting.”
We drew, with infinite sorrow,
the furled shanghais from our
pockets and placed them in her
hand.
“Where’s those blasted kids?”
Gilly’s father called from the
car.
“They’re coming,” Gilly’s
mother promised. “We’ve just
finished a little Erosion and
Disarmament conference, all of
our own.”
Gilly’s father and Mr.
Macintyre studied the agenda
for the conference with great
thoroughness on the way to the
aerodrome.
“I see,” Macintyre said, as he
thumbed though the pages,
“where Tully have a resolution
about long-service leave.”
“I noticed that,” Gilly’s father
announced, as he adjusted his
spectacles and lit with ritual
the first cigarette of the morning.
“You know,” he continued, “I’ve
never been able to follow the
logic of this long-service leave
set-up. To me it all seems back-
to-front.”
Macintyre massaged a silver-
flecked moustache. “Oh? Why’s
that?”
“Well, you take it: you’ve got
a bloke working for you. For
twenty years, in good times and
bad, you scratch around and
find him a job, so he can put
on a bit of condition, get a roof
over his head, educate his kids
and have a grog or two occasion-
ally. Then after twenty years,
when he’s getting a bit long in
the tooth, instead of coming up
to you and saying, ‘Now look
here, boss, I’ve slowed down, a
bit but you’ve kept me in a crust
all these years ; now,. just to
show I appreciate it, I’ll throw
in a few weeks’ work for
nothing’ - - .”
He flung out his hand.
“No fear —you’ve got to pay
him thirteen weeks’ flaming
holiday-pay!”
“Damn it all,” Macintyre
declared, “I’ve never looked at
it that way before.”
He peered intently through the
windscreen.
“Good heavens,” he said, “can
that be your boy Nick coming
back already?”
He stopped the car as Nick’s
truck approached.
“Another blasted strike,” Nick
bellowed from the cabin. “Have
to wait for another dam’blasted
boat. Wharfies reckon the sugar’s
too hard to load, hurting their
shoulders too much.”
He crashed the truck into gear
in a sacrilege bred of disgust.
“I better not hold you up ;
you don’t want to miss the
plane.”
“Isn’t the waterfront terrible
these days?” Mrs. Macintyre
said worriedly.
“Good Lord, this road’s not
much • better,” Gilly’s father
declared as the car kangarooed
over a series of potholes.
“Well, we might be able to
do something about that, any-
way,” Mr. Macintyre declared.
“We’re running a new Inde-
pendent team for the council
elections after we get back from
the conference. As a ma’tter of
fact, I’m standing myself. Might
even get in, with a bit of luck.”
“You’ll need a bit of luck,”
Gilly’s father conceded. “The
other "-side could run a three-
headed baboon with tuberculosis
and get that in, as long as it
had the party ticket on it.”
Mrs. Macintyre was still
smiling when we reached the
aerodrome. Gilly’s father sur-
veyed the aeroplanes out on the
tarmac.,
‘‘One thing,” he said, “a man
shouldn’t get a cold this time
like I did the last time I went
up. I thought I’d get pneumonia
out of that issue the way the
wind was blowing in.”
“Damn it all,” Macintyre said,
“that plane must have been in
a terribly bad state of repair.”
Gilly’s father shook his head
vehemently.
“Oh, no,” he said, “It was in
really good order. Kingsford
Smith flew it all over Australia
after that.”
/TILLY gaped as the taxi took
us to the hotel.
“Isn’t there a lot of noise!”
His eyes widened as a- tram
clattered by.
“And look at all those people
jammed in there!”
His father nodded. “You
want to remember all those kind
of things when you get back
home,” he said, “and be grateful
to these people who are pre-
pared to live here under such
primitive, barbaric conditions so
you can live in civilised comfort
in the bush.”
He pointed through the
window.
“There’s the City Hall,” he
explained. “The Government we
had in in the depression built
that instead of payifig blokes
to cut down a few burrs along
the road. What do you think
of it?”
Gilly pressed his nose against
the window. His eyes widened
as the clock chimed.
“Gee,” he gasped, as the
pigeons fluttered in alarm, “I
knew a man shoulda brought
a flaming ging . . .”
It was the biggest hotel Gilly
and I had ever seen, filled with
promising lifts and delegate
friends of Gilly’s father.
Although the conference did not
begin until next day, they seemed
determined to discuss every
resolution that evening. Gilly
and I grew very tired. Even
after Mrs. Macintyre had gone
up to her room, the men were
still talking. We were almost
asleep when Gilly’s father and
Mr. Macintyre walked with us
to the lift. There was a very
pretty lady standing near the
colonel in charge.
“Good-evening,” she said to
Mr. Macintyre with a smile.
The colonel in charge of the>
lifts stepped across in front of
her and ushered us into the next
lift.
“I’m sorry, sirs,” he said, “but
the manager won’t allow dele-
gates to go up in the same lifts
at night as doubtful ladies.”
Mr. Macintyre smiled and
looked across at the pretty lady’s
legs. •
“Doubtful my foot,” he
whispered to Giliy’s father
“Damn it all, she § a blasted
certainty.”
“Hey, Dad,” Gilly worried as
we walked down the corridor,
“what’s a doubtful lady?”
Gilly’s father coughed,
stopped and looked at his watch.
“Good heavens above,” he
declared, “look at the time. You
should’ve been in bed, hours
ago. .
T>ACK at the aerodrome we
** were met by Gilly’s mother
and Nick.
“And how did you get on?”
Gilly’s mother beamed. “Did you
get all,your resolutions passed?”
“Well, not exactly,” Gilly’s
father admitted.
“Oh, well,” Nick encouraged,
“you couldn’t expect to get the
lot. Missing out on one or two
won’t hurt.”'
“Actually things were very
difficult,” Macintyre put in.
“I’ve never seen the Mackay and
Bundaberg delegations so
stubborn.”
Nick scratched his head in
concern.
“How many did you miss out
on?” he wondered.
“As a matter of fact,” Gilly’s
father admitted, “we missed the
blasted lot.”
A GENTLE tide of melan-
choly floated into our lives
over the next few weeks. Gilly’s
father’s resolutions lay lost but
unhidden, Nick’s molasses sat
strike-bound in the igloo and
the snake-worms departed from
the patch in the tea-tree swamp
as a wave of heat sucked wet-
season moisture from the
ground./
Nick returned from town one
day with a new cheerfulness.
“A not h e r boat’s in,” he
announced as he flicked pers-
piration from his lean face. “I
got twenty drums carted down
to the wharf. They went on
strike this morning, but only
for a couple of hours. A man
can start carting properly this
afternoon.”
“What was the strike about?”
Gilly’s father asked listlessly.
Nick fanned his face with his
Army hat.
“Aw, one mob went on strike
as a protest over the number
of waterfront - strikes,” he
explained. “The others went out
in protest.”
“Can we come down this
afternoon?” Gilly asked eagerly.
“I could do- with a hand,”
Nick admitted.
The igloo roof swam through
a haze of heat and the unlined
cab-roof above us hot-plated
our heads.
Gilly’s father climbed stiffly
from the truck and walked
towards the igloo. He leapt
aside as the sound of an explo-
sion tore through the air.
“Gawd’s truth, Nick,” he
called in alarm, “you must have
blown a tyre!” -
He strode back towards the
truck and inspected a wheel
earnestly.' Anot h e r report
thudded near by.
“Damnation! ” Gilly’s father
corrected. "Two cursed tyres!”
Nick leapt from the cab.
“They must be on your side,”
Gilly’s father declared.. “These
are all right.”
“So are th»se.”
(Continued on next page)


Men
Wool
re
■
m
w*
■ !•:••
H
m
/>
%V/
AL
stockmen on tin horses . .
. . . successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawling
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-to-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . . . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies and Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior.
Likewise Dalgety’s dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan-
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry all over Australia.
Dalgvtys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
A third report acted as full-
stop to the sentence.
“It’s not the tyres,” Nick said.
“It’s round the igloo some-
where.”
“Must be some New Aus-
tralians shooting ha-ha pigeons
with a four-one-oh,” Gilly’s
father decided.
Nick scowled. “I’ll give them
bloody ha-ha,” he threatened as
he advanced towards the igloo.
An Owen- gunlike burst
shattered the sudden silence.
“It’s not coming from outside
the igloo,” Nick said in astonish-
ment. “It’s inside /”
He took keys from his pocket,
unlocked the door and flung it
back.
“Well, wouldn’t fhat ruin
you,” he said.
A new series of explosions
echoed inside the igloo. Nick
flung his hands around his head
and leapt away from the door
as a geyser of hot molasses
scalded the roof.
“All the bloody drums are
blowing-up in the heat,” he
yelled. “They must have fer-
mented. There’s molasses from
one end of the igloo to the other,
bungs flying like ack-ack shells
and buckled-up drums all over
the place. The whole flaming
lot’s ruined!
“The only lucky part about
it all,” Nick said as he flung the
last battered drum into the man-
grove swamp behind the igloo,
“is that we didn’t have too far
to take the drums to get rid of
them.”
He gazed down glumly at the
slowly spreading sea of poured
molasses creeping through man-
grove roots and round the edges
of dozens of abandoned drums.
“Phew,” he declared, “that
swamp-mud stinks. I wouldn’t
go in there for a hundred quid.
Come on —let’s get out of here.”
•He set off down the side of
the igloo, clothes creaking with
dried molasses. There was a
utility parked beside the truck
and a neat little man with a
head as bald as a thalliumed rat
stood at the igloo door examin-
ing the interior with keen
interest. He sped across to
Nick. “Hear you had a spot of
bother,” he said. “Bad luck,
bad luck.”
Nick nodded disgustedly.
“Cleaned the place up all
right, I see. Had to cart the
drums away, I suppose?”
“Aw,” Nick put in dis-
interestedly, “we heaved them
in the swamp.”
The little man leapt up and
down on the spot like a
partially electrocuted bandicoot.
“Good heavens, good heavens,
terrible, terrible,” he declared.
“It did stink a bit,” Nick
conceded.
“Have to be shifted. ' Have to
be shifted. Menace to public
health, can’t leave them there,
must be shifted.”
“And who,” Nick asked
heatedly, “in the name of blazes
do you think you are?”
“Don’t you know? Health
Inspector, of course. Can’t leave
them there, have to be shifted.”
A vision of the mangrove
mud crossed our minds.
“Oh, my God,” Nick said
wearily as he sat down weakly
on the truck running-board . . .
“Don’t forget,” Gilly’s mother
told Nick as he walked to the
laundry with wrinkled nose and
his mud-covered clothes thrust
before him on the end of a hoe-
handle like a lowered banner,
“that you’ll have to vote at the
council elections today. We
better go in before you start on
more drums. The mud does
smell a little, you know.”
“Um,” Nick said sadly.
jyrACINTYRE stood near the
- booth admiring
babie's, lying to middle-aged
women and helping old men out
of cars and across the street. He
greeted Gilly’s father warmly
and stood puzzled at the lack
of response.
“Damn it all—is something
wrong?” he inquired.
“Wrong,” Gilly’s father
moaned. “Missing-out on all
those resolutions at the con-
ference was bad enough, but
just listen to what’s happened to
us since that . .
Sympathy spread across Mac-
intyre’s face and held in his eyes
as the story unfolded. Six
promising and potential voters
walked past ignored.
“ Sorry—I could've sworn you were Jim Smith”
“Damn it all,” he said finally,
“do you mean you’ll have to
retrieve all of those drums?”
“All of them,” Gilly’s father
echoed. “We’re heaving them
in the creek at home. At least
no blasted Health Inspector will
find them there.”
We stood in a gentle circle of
infinite sorrow. At last Mac-
intyre spoke.
“Looks as though you missed
out all along the line,” he agreed.
“You must be feeling very
downhearted.”
“Downhearted’s not the
word,” Gilly’s father said as he
absently, examined a how-to-
vote card which an ally of Mac-
intyre’s handed him. “What
with the crushing coming up
again a man needs a bit of a
win somewhere to boost his
morale.”
He fingered the how-to-vote
card.
“And now a man will lose out
again voting for the Independ-
ents,” he claimed.
“Oh, I wouldnt say that,”
Macintyre said.
Gilly’s father scowled. “Man
and boy I voted against the other
mob —and lost,” he said. “I
can’t see how I’m expected to
get a win now with my luck
right out.”
“But, damn it all,” Macintyre
persisted, “they just might lose
this time.”
“What?” Gilly’s father
scorned him. “In North Queens-
land? That’ll be the day!”
He narrowed his eyes and
gazed into the middle distance,
muttering softly to himself.
“Damnation, I’ll do it!” he
shouted.
Macintyre backed away in
alarm.
“A man’s got to,” Gilly father
argued. “You can’t lose-out on
everything like we have lately
and keep your self-respect. If
I’m not careful I’ll end up com-
pletely demoralised.”
“But I don’t understand,”
Macintyre faltered.
Gilly’s father screwed his face
with determination. “A man’s
just got to have a win on some-
thing,” he said firmly. “I’ve
just got to.”
He took a step forward. “I’ll
do it,” he said staunchly. He
hesitated, then clenched his fists
and walked forward again. “So
help me, I will,” he moaned as
he flung Macintyre’s how-to-
vote card away. “I’m going to
be on the winning side for once,
I’m going to bloody well vote
Labor! ”
Macintyre’s eyebrows rose in
horror.
“Good heavens!” he cried in
alarm. “You can’t do that.”
He searched around for sup-
port. “How would ypu feel if
we beat them?” he pointed out.
“We have got a chance, you
know ”
Gilly’s father regarded him
with great calmness.
“Mac,” he said with cool
dignity, “if your side gets in for
the council I will personally
bare my backside in Wool-
worth’s window next Saturday
morning.”
T HERE was * S-vd place on
the bridge at the bottom of
cutting for dronoing emntv
me . cunm S ror dropping empty
molasses drums m’ the creek.
Some of the less-battered drums
Nick declared to be salvageable,
These he lined-up along the bank
for washing. The rest bobbed
away down .the creek, slowly
sinking or floating out of sight
past the panicum-grass patch on
the corner.
Gilly and I offered to wash
the salvageable drums for Nick
and pass them up to him on the
t> rid SC. It was "a pity the first
drum sank as we swam around
with it in the deep water. Nick
viewed the loss without grace.
“Get to blazes out of it,” he
roared
~, , ■ ,
Gilly s father clambered down
the bank with impatience and
cautiously tested the water with
his toe. “This will play hell
wifi, my rheumatij/ he
11 was nearly an hoUr before
« A _ an ._ a _ wet __ a nrflwn »
. wet as a prawn ’
P „* . .
£ ome ° n ’ S ck u said weard y
washed his hands in the
creek > “ let ’ s get home ”
Gilly and I climbed on to the
bridge.
“Wait a bit till I wring out
me pants,” Gilly’s father said.
He steadied himself against
the supports of the low bridge
and manoeuvred his trousers
down over his knees.
It was then Gilly and I heard
the car coming down the cutting,
“Look out, Dad,” Gilly
warned. “Here comes Mr.
Macintyre.”
“Well, what in the blazes does
that matter?” his father de-
manded as he wrung his trousers
with vigor,
Gilly scratched his head.
“We-ell,” he considered slowly,
“Mrs. Macintyre’s with him.”
Gilly’s father needn’t have
scurried under the bridge on his
hands and knees quite so
quickly. He was hidden for at
least ten sedbnds before Mac-
intyre stopped his car overhead.
In that time Gilly’s father might
have been able to find a more
comfortable and less crouched
position.
“Is your father up at the
house?” Macintyre called down
*° us -
Nick edged his father’s
tr °users further into the con-
.. . , ..
ceal “ B grass j<< JV, „
No,” he said, he snot.'
“hTre I thougM
' rd d R dle , n in -,' o him „
~ .... . , , ~
sugge ed, don t
y °“ dry ° - P He 11 be home
p £ „ .
Ih d ° tbat > Macintyre
d ® clded ; He beamed at Nlck-
l™"l ,‘, o .TiXlni ‘‘“.gSl
lca ai y ’ f be f . p ... * ■
ZXI
, , , ‘ 7
c l a “ d,da, l, won ' „ „. .
Well, 111 be blowed, Nick
* msirnina o i anrP
He flashed a earning glance
as our eyes travelled to Gillys
father shifting unea sily on his
kne es as the beam above pressed
: nto u; s u ac k
u „ - n , v „ ’L...1.1.J u...
yO XX’"n IfZ
2 *>*»£
ini™ Woolworth’s window °next
under the
, r[ ck stole a glance unaei me
bridge.
“Ob, no,” he said firmly,
“I’m sure he hasn’t forgotten,
As a matter of fact, he went
on, “I wouldn’t be a bit sur-
prised if he’s practising for it
right now. ’


Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th Jane, 1956
LIABILITIES.
Central Banking Business —
Capital .. ..
Reserve Fund
Rural Credits Department—
Capital .. .. .. ..
Reserve Fund
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. ..
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Special Reserve—Premium on gold
sold
Notes on issue
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks
Other deposits of trading banks ..
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (including pro-
vision for contingencies)
Total
£
4,000,000
9,349,877
2,714,000
1,027,068
6,428,000
618,685
6,429,000
2,530,314
30,996,944
4,754,954
371,968,749
255,399,000
36,320,989
250,726,037
950,166,673
T
ASSETS.
Gold and balances held abroad (in-
cluding money at short call) ' ..
Australian notes and coin ..
Cheques and bills of other banks ..
Commonwealth Government Securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off)
Loans, advances, etc (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) :
Central Banking Business
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department ..
Industrial Finance Department
Other assets
274,387,906
2,647,572
16,105,401
481,017,008
33,567,500
7,309,466
590,167
19,001,053
81,411,803
5,096,745
24,806,679
4,135,379
Total
950,16(i,673
Dr.
Note. —lnter-departmental accounts totalling £76,330,825 have been offset.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1956
Cr.
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund ..
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account ...
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
To Commonwealth Treasury
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department
Reserve Fund
To Rural Credits Development
Fund
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund
8.280.317
2.780.318
143,000
71,500
142,500,
143,000
148,000
71,500
142,600
143,000
7,865,937
110,005
110,00 S
76,163
415,940
16,637,685
Total
.By Profits (after provision for
contingencies)—
Central Banking Business.. .. 6,560,635
Note Issue Department .. .. 8,365,937
Rural Credits Department .. 220,010
Mortgage Bank Department .. 75,163
Industrial Finance Department ~ 415,940
15,637,685
Totai.
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
K!
J. B. WRIGHT, Secretary.
W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 23rd August, 1956.
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1956
~ LIABILITIES. £
Capital .. .. .. .. 6,429,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 2,484,946
Deposits, bills payable and other
liabilities (including provision for
contingencies) .. .. .. 221,712,743
Balances due to other banks .. ... 480,960
Totai.
.. 230,057,649
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at
bankers
Money at short call—
(a) London
(b) Elsewhere
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank
Cheques and bills of other banks and
balances with and due from other
banks
Treasury Bills—
(a) Australian Governments
(b) Other governments
Public securities (excluding treasury
bills)—
(a) Australian Governments
(b) Other governments
(c) Local and semi-governmental
authorities ..
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off)
Loans, advances and bills discounted
(after deducting provision for
-debts considered bad or doubtful)
Other assets
£
13,919,391
1,875,000
31,160,000
2,160,439
7,000,000
35,720,069
25,376,115
3,830,625
105,217,379
3,808,631
Total
230,057,649
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1956
Cr.
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 275,125
To Commonwealth Trading Bank .
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 275,126
Total
550,251
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 23rd August, 1956.
9S6i ‘ 3nn f *nos *« m iaaiis aawvava
D;|Dj)snY |0 >|uog s6u;ads I|9|D3muouiuio3
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund .. .. t...
Depositors’ balances and accrued
interest
Other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) ...
£
9,190,794
712,342,263
20,801,530
ASSETS.
Australian notes and coin
Cash balances and money at short
call
Commonwealth Government Securities,
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-govemmental
authorities .. ,
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off)
Loans and advances
Other assets ..
£
802,890
72,518,966
469,128,656
78,583,762
5,889,915
103,277,352
12,133,046
Total
742,334,587
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1956
Dr.
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund
Total ..
725,186
By Profits (after provision for pay-
ments amounting to £525,967 due
to State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements
and after provision for contingen-
cies) 726,186
Total .. .. 725,186
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) H. G. T. SEARLE, Chief Superintendent. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 23rd August, 1956.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the
Commonwealth (Mr. H. C. Newman).
Gther World
By KEVIN McNAMARA
AT first there was a crowd
in the cafe, for it served
the patrons of no fewer
than three suburban
talkie-theatres. George was kept
busy, and the cash-register rang
as music in his ears.
But eventually people drifted
off, and then there were only
two customers left, a man in a
raincoat and a girl whose gloves
were of expensive pig-skin.
George rested on the counter,
one hand slowly wiping away
puddles of tea and coffee. The
man in the raincoat was the
interesting one. He had sat
throughout the rush, had drunk
three cups of coffee, all the while
staring out the window at the
rain-sprayed street. He seemed
to be deep in thought, deep in
another world. George wiped
his way along the counter until
he was right close to him.
“Coffee’ll get cold,” said
George.
The man looked slowly
around. “I like it cold,” he
said.
George shrugged.
The girl said, “I’d like two
hamburgers.”
“Two hamburgers,” said
George, and laid the cloth and
dumped hamburger meat on the
griddle. While he made the
hamburgers no one spoke, and
the man just stared out at the
street.
When they were done, George
put them on a plate and took
them to the girl. She began to
eat slowly. She wasn’t a bad-
looking girl, but she wasn’t as
interesting as the man in the
raincoat. George decided to
give it one more try, for this
was his hobby and it irked to be
defeated.
“Are you sure you wouldn’t
like a hot cup of coffee?”
The man turned again. He
said, frowning, “All those people
in here, where’d they come
from?”
George glanced at the walls
before replying. “The pictures.”
“They weren’t at the picture
I went to,” said the man coldly.
‘There’s three pictures.”
“I went to the Palace.”
“Well, that was a unusual
picture.”
The man leaned forward.
“You see it?” He seemed
really interested.
“No; I read about it.”
George laughed. “That’s why I
didn’t see it.”
The man half-closed his eyes,
seeming to weather the storm
of George’s laughter. When it
had subsided, the man said,
“You stupid .”
But he saw the girl and
stopped.
He turned to the girl and
said, “Sorry.” •
She looked straight down at
her plate, working her fork.
She did not even look at him.
/HSORGE was smiling. It was
a stunned kind of smile.
The man put his hands on the
counter and a shiver went
through him. He said to
George, “I’m sorry to you too.
I think I will have a hot cup of
coffee.”
George got it. But the man
just put his hands around it,
and it didn’t look as if he was
going to drink that one either.
Now George was really
interested. He said, “I was only
joking. I never go to the
pictures.”
“You should.”
“No ; they’re too childish.”
“This one I saw wasn’t
childish.” '
“Yeah?”
“It was originally a stage-
play. Igo to see all the pictures
that were originally stage : plays.
Sometimes I go to others, too,
, but mostly to pictures that . .
“Yeah, originally stage-plays.”
“That’s right.” He looked
right into George’s eyes. “I seen
this one four times. Four.
And every time ... I don’t
know.”
“What? Go on.”
He said with gravity, “There
was a girl in it.”
George smiled. ' “There
usually is.”
“No; this girl . . . she was
. . . God, I don’t know.”
“Good to look at?”
“No; she’s not much to look
at, not the way you mean. No
curves or anything like that.
But when you really look > at
her . . .”
“What?”
“She’s beautiful. Really, truly
beautiful. She’s an actress.”
Now it burst out of his mouth ;
how he was letting it go, but
mostly talking to himself. “The
picture, the play, was good, but
she takes it and holds it . . .”
He shaped a ball with his hands.
“And she makes it wonderful.
Something beats out of her. I
don’t know what. It’s intan-
gible. It’s a power. She says,
‘I don’t think I want to go with
you,’ and you wouldn’t believe
how it sounds. That one silly
sentence sounds like . . . poetry.
Her voice. The intensity!”
He was now staring at
George. George took a step
back, returning the stare.
“She can make a gesture and
make you cry and laugh too ;
all at once; she can draw you
into the screen, into the picture,
and yet you stand to one side
and watch; and there’s some-
thing beating at you and beating
inside you. It’s wonderful.”
“Oh, yeah?” said George.
“Look. Maybe I’m not tell-
ing this right. It’s hard to tell.
So I’ll go at it another way.”
The man licked his lips, stared
at the counter, at his hands,
then said:
“This might sound like I’m
getting off the track. But I’m
pot. You might think this has
nothing to do with an actress.
Just listen.
“'THERE was this car, you see,
* and it was about thirty
years old and looked a hell of
a lot older. It stood right across
the road from my place. The
owner used to work on it every
weekend and sometimes after
work in the evenings, but he
could never get it to go.
Couldn’t even get a grunt out of
it. The way he worked on it
people used to smile, because
they figured he was wasting his
time and making a fool of him-
self. Maybe so. That doesn’t
matter.
“Even I figured he’d never get
it moving. It had stood out in
the rain and everything, and it
looked to me like the pistons
were rusted solid in their
cylinders.
“Well, I’d watch him pour all
kinds of oil all over it, and mess
around; with the engine, and
crank away at the handle, but
nothing happened.
“So he got neighbors to take
a look at it, and they fiddled
around, too, but still nothing.
Then he got mechanics to come
down and take a look at it.
There were about three of these
fellows in overalls and so on
peering professionally into the-
bonnet, and screwing away with
screwdrivers, and bringing out
these machines and all, but they
gave up in disgust. They said
he ought to sell it to a junk-
yard. Maybe, they said, he’d
have to pay the junkyard to
whbel it away.”
“A real bomb,” said George.
“Well, the neighbors grinned,
even broader when the owner
put this sign on his car, It was
written in chalk and. said: Foi
sale, best offer.’ They didn’t
think he’d get any offers. They
figured that a buyer could always
replace the torn upholstery, the
rotted tyres, but you just had to
have an engine.
“It looked pretty hopeless
But then this fellow, a friend of
the owner, I think came down
He didn t look like much, just
another character. But he went
to that car, lifted the bonnet,
spent maybe five minutes tinker-
ing, then tried it. It wouldn’t go.
He got it pushed down the road,
and it still wouldn’t go. But he
worked <***: toy a
> ’ P
SinLg her T and
-inp in the end”
„ J dn with
, What S “T don’t
ac ; ia B; asKea ueo 8 •
ge 7 .
ims - tnat man
( Continued on page 34)


Sidelights of a Big Service
FIFTY YEARS
OF MAIL
By
W. A. MARTIN
The writer of these engaging glimpses inside the P.O. has
held the post of Superintendent, Mail Branches, in four
States — Queensland, South Australia, Victoria and N.S.W.
The postmarks (in slight reduction) reproduced with this
article are a gleaning of some of the clearer ones on a
couple of days’. Bulletin mail.
OVER the past half-century
the mail dealt with in
Australian post - offices
has more than kept pace
with the increase of population,
and, among other developments,
the engineering side has evolved
electrical machinery to cope
with it.
At first the mechanical treat-
ment of mails was confined to
newspapers and packets, but in
latter years it has been developed
for the heavier type of mail, such
as parcels, and, in the reverse
direction, for the treatment of
letter-class articles, including
airgraphs which are so flimsy
that it takes 150 to weigh lib.
Were it not for the mechanical
aids the various city G.P.O.s
would not have been able to
provide sufficient space for the
number of "Lands required for
sorting and the like. With all
its machinery in operation the
Sydney Mail Branch is like a
huge factory.
Statistics compiled in the Mail
Branch today are based on elec-
trically - driven speedometers
attached to the stamping-
machines ; heavier-class mails are
calculated on a weight-basis, a
unit to ascertain the number of
articles being fixed after regular
averaging of weights. In earlier
days the number of articles dealt
with was calculated on checks
made twice yearly, and, as the
prestige of a branch was often
■assessed on the figures supplied,
the responsible officers at times
added a percentage to the figures
supplied to them —to show a
traffic increase as compared with
former years!
With the accumulated addition
of these added percentages the
traffic-figures became enormous,
and when a provable check was
subsequently introduced the real
figures were so much lower that
consideration was given to
reducing staff because of the
falling-off in traffic. However,
the truth had to be told, and
the earlier figures were scrapped.
Consequently, no notice is now
I taken of any ordinary-mail
■ statistics prior to 1930.
Some figures which are beyond
doubt are the number of bags
of mail received from overseas
countries. In the horse-drawn
vehicular days 500 bags of mail
from the United Kingdom and
Europe was a big consignment;
today 2500 bags on one ship is
accepted as normal.
In December, 1954, the Eng-
lish mail which reached Sydney
a fortnight before Christmas
contained no less than 14,000
bags. Fortunately, it arrived on
a Friday, the whole available
working-staff was mobilised for
full duty on Saturday and
Sunday, and by Monday morn-
ing not an article remained
unsorted.
❖ ❖ ♦>
'T'HE position of Super-
A intendent, Mails, Sydney,
has always been regarded as one
qf the toughest in the Australian
postal-service, and from it many
high administrative officers have
been chosen, among them:
S. Roberts, promoted to Deputy
Pirector of Posts and Telegraphs
in Perth; A. J. Christie, became
Deputy Director in Brisbane and
afterwards in Melbourne ; A. B.
Corbett, Deputy Director of
Post Offices in Queensland and
later Director-General of Civil
Aviation; Sir Daniel McVey,
Director-General o£ the whole
Australian postal administra-
tion ; F. R. Bradley, Director in
Brisbane and later in Sydney.
In outside activities, staff
representatives of some note
would make a long list. To recall
just a few:
Tom Meagher, president of
the Life Saving Association at
Bondi, has been connected with
many life-saving episodes.
Dudley Bartlett was a noted
billiardist. Tommy McLachlan,
weighing only 10st., was a daring
and clever hooker among the big
Eastern Suburbs footballers. Bob
Finlay astonished the amateur
boxing world by defeating the
Marquis of. Clydesdale for the
amateur middleweight world’s
championship. Only lately
retired, Bob retains the belt and
is proud of it. Hugh Mclntosh
never thought Bob could beat the
Marquis—and never spoke to
Bob again after he had done so.
Every year the branches
employ large numbers of
temporary hands to assist them
with unskilled work during the
pre-Christmas period. Some of
those who have thus passed
through:
Ken Kearney, international
Rugby League footballer;
Ray Robinson, international
cricketer; Tim Wall, Australian
fast-bowler; Andy Knox, who
rode Old Rowley when he won
the Melbourne Cup; Alexander
Alexander, who pushed a wheel-
barrow with his brother in it
from Adelaide to Sydney via
Broken Hill; the Rev. Basil
Gowing, who wore a beard like
King George V; Bert Leblanc,
vaudeville artist.
I should say that Tim Wall
was the best working temporary
I ever met. We christened him
“Tireless Tim.” He not only
did the job allotted to him but
was looking to see what
more he could find to do.
Andy Knox, I regret to say,
lasted only two hours. He
regarded work as rather
boring.
TN World War II nearly all
regular liners were withdrawn
from the Pacific route and there
was difficulty in arranging for
conveyance of mails between
Australia and destinations
beyond New Zealand.
Pitcairn Island was badly
affected. The Pioneer Line used
to drop in there now and again ;
but at that time there was a pre-
ponderance of females on Pit-
cairn, and when of the
Pioneer crews got ashore it took
nearly two days to gather them
up again. The delay to the ship
made the call too costly, and the
company eliminated Pitcairn.
I went down to the Naval
Board at Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, and inquired
whether the Navy could help
with its reconnaissance vessels
operating in the area. After the
delicacy of the situation had
been explained one estimable
naval officer, with a twinkle in
his eye, said he had some doubt
whether the mails or the females
were the main consideration.
However, arrangements were
made for a patrol-vessel to make
irregular calls, conveying mails
to and from a New Zealand
port.,
Captain Foley ripped in a nice
aside: “Do you think, sir, some
special disciplinary instructions
to the ratings should be issued
in.,this case?”
+s,
npHROUGH long associations
the Post Office gets on well
with the overseas shipping-
companies and with the wharf-
laborers. Sometimes delivery of
the last load of mail to shipside
is late, but the wharf-laborers
and ship’s officers willingly
hustle the last 100 bags aboard.
-The wharf-laborers, in fact,
have great respect for H.M.
mails. There is reciprocal con-
sideration. If mails are late
because of shipping troubles the
P.O. makes no complaint. Again,
the drivers collecting incoming
mails often (against regulations)
give wharfies a lift back to town
from the more distant wharves,
or sometimes, during the meal-
break, drive them to the nearest
pub.
As well, at the wharf-laborers’
annual picnic the Post Office
Shipping Overseer, in full
uniform, looking like a rear-
admiral, always acts as distri-
butor of milk to the youngsters,
thus becoming a well-known
figure hot only to the wharf-
laborers themselves but to their
wives and children.
This friendly relationship has
paid good dividends over the
years, and you will seldom hear
a wharfie utter a bad word
against the Post Office.
Likewise, relationship with
the Railways Department has
always been similarly friendly,
and the friendly contact extends
from the top level down to the
porters and mail-officers.
On many small branch rail-
way-lines bundles of mail, and
in some cases bags, are made up
labelled direct to the guard, and
he hands this mail out to persons
waiting for it at unattended
sidings or places it in the letter-
boxes provided.
In these, and in other cases,
too, the guard is the postman.
Residents give the guard cash to
get stamps and affix them to the
articles. His job is therefore not
finished when he signs-off at the
end of his run ; he still has the
mail jobs to do for his friends
along the line.
On the higher level, Railways
are informed when huge con-
signments of mail are due from
overseas countries and they
place wagons in the several docks
so that they can be progressively
loaded throughout the days.
AH this, and other, smooth-
working co-operation between
the P.O. and the transport
bodies has been built up from
experience over many years—it
goes back to pre-Federation
days, when the Post Office was
under State control.
❖ ❖ ♦>
THE old - time bush mail-
■*- contractors were, naturally,
vastly different from those
operating today. Their first pro-
vision necessarily was to feed
and water their horses and to
organise changing-stages. The
motor-driver dashes along,
carries his supplies with him, and
accomplishes the trip in half the
time.
Two old contractors come to
my mind as I write. 'Jim Smith,
contractor for the Grong Grong-
North Berembed mail-service,
performed this run twice a week
for £26 per annum and was in a
state of deep anxiety when
tenders were called, always fear-
ing that someone would undercut
him for the job.
Officially, he began his run at
11 a.m. and completed it at
8 p.m., two days a week, but
that didn’t represent his actual
working-time, and besides h| had
to provide a sulky with carry-alls
built of wirenetting or hessian
underneath it, and feed his horse
and keep him shod.
Besides conveying the mails he
was a general carrier, and on
each trip had a long list of
articles to assemble. He had to
call at the butcher’s/shop, the
bakery, the newsagency and the
railway-station to pick up
requisites for people living on his
run.
On the return journey he was
given orders to be collected for
his next outgoing trip ; also he
would bring into the post-office
all the mail - he had collected
en route, very few items of which
bore stamps.
Jim had to sort them out, and
buy the stamps to put on the
different articles. He also had
to buy postal-notes to enclose
in letters to the mail-order houses
in vSydney, also for tickets in
sweeps, and, around Melbourne
Cup time, money to be invested
on horses for the big handicaps.
He had them all tabulated, and
on his next outward journey had
to refund any change due to the
senders. He was a faithful mail-
man, honest as you could find
and, as far as I knew, never
made an error in his tiny finan-
cial transactions even to the fd.-
change on small-valued postal-
notes.
The modern farmer or grazier
does not rely on mail-contractors
such as Jim for his household
supplies, because he or his wife
can hop into their utility or car
and drop into the nearest town
or village to pick up whatever
it is they are short of; so the
%
mail-contractor has, to a large
extent, lost his identity as a
universal provider, and the per-
sonal touch he formerly had
with people living along the
route is among the things of the
past.
The modern mail-contractor,
in his truck, pulls-up at a letter-
box and places in it the mail and
other goods he may carry, and
dashes onwards; men like, old
Jim met the people and heard
about their sicknesses, complaints
and plagues of mice, caterpillars
and grasshoppers.
Another notable contractor
was Donald MacGregor, who
operated between Warialda,
N. S. Wales, and Goondiwindi, in
Queensland. Donald had a
saddle-horse and two pack-
horses, and he carried mail for
five post - offices: Coolatai.
Wallangra, Yetman, Boggabilla
and Goondiwindi.
In addition to some 20 private
bags for graziers along the track
he also had loose mail for people
living in the area, many of whom
could not afford private bags,
and relied on roadside mailboxes.
Donald left Warialda at
3 a.m., wet or fine, and was the
most regular of all the mailmen
with whom I have been associ-
ated.
He was also the best “stacker.”
Mails are not like wheat and
sugar, which settle down into


regular sizes. On those long
tuns the mails contain ladies’
hatboxes, suits, glassware, tennis-
racquets, trophies and whatnot,
of all sorts of sizes and shapes.
Before he started out, Donald
had to make sure his load would
be properly balanced and would
ride satisfactorily, and he had
to distribute the load equally
between the two pack-horses in
case one knocked-up.
A splendid mailman, Donald
was known far and wide through-
out .the North-West for his
punctuality, honesty and in-
tegrity. On one occasion some
local chap undercut ’and beat
him for the contract, and the
storms of protest were so noisy
and widespread that his sureties
asked to be relieved of their
responsibilities and the Postal
Department was only too pleased
to meet their wishes and let
old Donald stay on the job.
While on the subject of con-
tractors, one we had in Northern
Queensland once got his mails
through to Burketown by con-
structing a raft out of empty
oil-drums strung together. With
this contrivance he succeeded in
getting the mail across, and, to
their credit, the alligators let him
have a fair go.
❖ ♦> »!♦
TN latter years the instability of
staff, due to frequent change-
over and the necessary employ-
ment of temporary hands, has
robbed the old postman of many
of the characteristics which made
him a popular figure on his
round.
Today people hardly know
their postman ; formerly he
knew personally everybody on
the round, and often where they
got their mail from and the day
on which it was due.
Without wishing to be in-
quisitive, the postman acquires
a lot of knowledge which he does
not seek. I was inspecting a
round on one occasion when
a woman came to her gate and
said to the postie, “You should
have a letter for me.” “Nothing
today, madam,” he replied. She
said, “Well, my old man is
working up at Kingaroy and he
sends me £5 every Tuesday.”
That postman thus henceforth
knew that each Tuesday’s letter
contained a £5 note. Similarly,
the postie usually knows the
married people on the round
who are anxious to intercept
letters addressed to their
partners.
A good postman’s attention
to his round pays him hand-
somely, because of the gratuities
he receives at Christmas-time.
Only a broken leg would make
him apply for sick-leave during
this period.
At Kirribilli, Sydney, when a
lot of English people resided
there, the Christinas tips were
worth something like £7O a year.
In Victoria, Caulfield, Toorak
and upper Collins-street are good
Christmas propositions, while in
Sydney today there is nothing
to compare with Macquarie-
street.
Nearly everyone remembers
the postman. Some give him a
piece of cake or a glass of wine,
others a Christmas-card ; in the
professional areas he does pretty
well.
One old Melbourne postman,
at St. Kilda, deserved promo-
tion if only for his organ-
ising ability. He had roneo’d
sheets headed “Donations for
Postman,” and he handed one
each to the receptionists at the
many guest-houses.
Not content with this pre-
liminary issue, he had a follow-
up system by daily inquiry:
“How’s it going, sister? Don’t
go to sleep on it.”
“ The late Mr. Tom Lawrie, of
Kirrifoilll, was always generous
to the postman. He spent a lot
of his time at the Royal Yacht
Club, and as the postman went
through the grounds Tom would
call out, “Steward, give the post-
man a drink.” The postman
would modestly say, “Thank
you, sir, I do not drink on my
round.” Tom would then hand
him a florin, which in the days
of 3d. beers meant eight beers
instead of the one he would have
had at the club.
Sometimes Mr. Lawrie, on his
way to the Milson’s Point ferry,
would meet the postman in the
.street, and he never had any
difficulty in obtaining his mail.
Other people requiring the same
favor were informed that it was
against the rules.
Lady Muriel Barclay, Govern-
ment House, Adelaide, said to
the guards on duty at the gate,
“Tell the postman I wish to see
him,” and when the postman
went up to the house, Lady
Muriel said, “Postman, you did
not call to wish me a happy
Christmas.” “No, your Lady-
ship, I always leave the mail with
the guards at the gate, and never
come near the house.” “Well,”
she said, “since you did not wish
me a happy Christmas I am going
to wish you one,” and she
handed him two golden
sovereigns.
The same postman later
collapsed in Harley Chambers,
North Terrace; Adelaide, and in
no time was surrounded by
doctors and nurses, each anxious
to do something for the old chap.
His medical-fees per annum were
nil.
In like manner, the postman
delivering to wholesale areas
such as Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne, seldom has to buy a new
hat. He merely has to drop a
hint that the one he got previ-
ously was getting a bit on the
shabby side.
* ❖
ttIS Royal Highness of
r--*- Gloucester took a keen
interest in mails. He liked to
have detailed information of
their treatment from the time
they were posted until they
reached the addressee.
When he was Governor-
General and resident at Yarra-
lumla I called there regarding his
mail-deliveries, and later again
at Government House, Mel-
bourne, where he resided for
some three months.
In Melbourne, he, with Rear-
Admiral Bracegirdle, was arrang-
ing for the dispatch of
Christmas-greetings to V.I.P.s in
India and other places, and he
was anxious that they should
reach there as near to Christmas
Day as possible—not too soon
before, and certainly not after-
wards. This took a lot of work-
ing-out because of the ’ ever-
changing timetables of inter-
national air-services. To a Post
Office man it was illuminating
to see how meticulous H.R.H.
was in arranging for the mailing
of his correspondence.
The Queen’s- visit to Australia
in February, 1954, called for
particular attention to mail for
her Majesty and the accompany-
ing party.
From the time the Gothic
passed through the Panama
Canal until it finally left
Colombo on its way home all
mail fo and from the royal party
passed through Sydney. While
there, it was protected in a
strongroom exclusively reserved
for the purpose. Her Majesty
was always anxious to receive
her personal mail, which came
enclosed in a direct bag from
Buckingham Palace. The Palace
has its own postmark, which is
much smaller than the normal
one; its circumference is about
the size of a shilling. The Palace
also has its own special lead seal.
When the royal party was on
its way from New Zealand to
Sydney the Australian escorting
units, headed by H.M.A.S.
Anzac, took-over in mid-
Tasman. Before leaving Sydney,
mails for the royal party were
placed in the chartroom of the
Anzac, to be subsequently trans-
ferred to the Gothic by an officer
sitting in a bosun’s-chair swung
between the two vessels, the
speed of each having been
slowed-down to four-knots for
the transference.
No sooner had the Gothic
dropped anchor in Port Jackson
than a naval pinnace drew along-
side and awaited the lowering of
the gangway. On board that
pinnace were the postal officials
with her Majesty’s mail.
The story of the treatment of
the royal mail throughout the
visit has been preserved in a
manuscript book, which has been
stored away in the Sydney Post
Office museum. It contains
details of every consignment, the
names of the officers of the air-
mail companies, transport
officers, naval officers and any-
body who was associated with
each consignment. Specimens of
the labels used and the post-
markings, waybills and other
documents are also enclosed in
the volume. One day it could
have its historical interest.
♦J> *
TT is a world-wide practice to
enclose mail in canvas con-
tainers. Consequently the onus
of protecting fragile articles is
left with the senders,, who are
expected to provide adequate
packing to prevent breakages.
Some amazing postings are'
made. In at least three instances
a large-size bottle of rum
wrapped only in brown-paper
has been dropped into the post-
ing-slips at capital cities. In each
case the rum was confiscated,
and should have, in the ordinary
course, been sold by public
auction and the amount realised
credited to ‘consolidated revenue.
I was never able to establish
whether this course was
followed.
Another person posted hens'
eggs addressed to himself. He
printed his name and address
on the shell of the eggs and,
after affixing the correct postage,
lodged them in a letterbox . . .
Well, we could not send the eggs
to the Dead Letter Office.
One firm forwarded a consign-
ment of bandsaws wrapped only
in brown-paper and tied with
flimsy string. If accorded trans-
mission the package would soon
have eaten its way through the
mailbag and damaged other
articles.
* ❖ ❖
GROSSLY offensive com-
munications are not trans-
missible by post, but in the case
of sealed articles the nature of
the contents cannot be deter-
mined by the sorting-staff. Quite
a number, however, have grossly
offensive addresses and these are
confiscated.
Samples of some of these are:
“Mr. Bludger ,” followed
by his correct address. Another
one: “Mrs. K. , The Harlot
of the Town,” followed by her
correct address.
These are grossly offensive and
are dealt with as such; but some
mischievous addresses sneak
through. I remember one that
got through to a big guest-
house : a single girl resided there,
and some man with whom she
had had a difference kept pester-
ing her by addressing letters to
her as “Mrs.” As she was away
at work in the morning when the
postman brought the mail to the
guest-house the letters were
placed in the rack where they
were examined by the remaining
.60 guests, nearly all of whom
assumed that the young lady was
a married woman.
This method of annoyance,
although not grossly offensive,
can certainly be highly mischiev-
ous. The senders of these letters
have no respect for persons, and
they come along addressed to
judges of the Siipreme Court,
ministers of religion, and
members of the police force.
*i ❖ *
IN Chicago the registration-
section of the Mail Branch is
guarded by armed officers, who
have to identify every person
coming out or going in.
The value of mail is almost
universally recognised. Years
ago, when heavy mails came
from Japan, I was watching the
discharge of mails from one of
the Maru vessels when a bag
dropped off a sling into the Bris-
bane River.
»
It had scarcely hit the water
before two of the Japanese dived
into the river fully clothed to
rescue it. Most of the officers of
the Maru liners were Japanese
Naval Reservists, and when the
receiving mail-officer made a
notation on the ship’s bills of the
immersion the responsible ship’s
officer was distressed. He came
to me and said he would like to
know whether the contents had
been damaged or not.
“Don’t worry about that,” I
told him ; “we will soon let you
know if there is
wrong.”
He replied: “But, sir, if any-
thing happens to the mail I will
lose my ship and with that my
commission.”
Hjf
"CIFTY years ago there were
many illiterates in the out-
back country, and to an extent
they relied upon postal officials
to do their writing.
On one occasion a man came
to me and asked for a money-
order to send to his wife. He
asked me to fill in the applica-
tion-form, and also to address
an envelope to her. Seeing his
difficulty, I told him that if he
cared to come back later, when
I was not so busy, I wouldn’t
mind scribbling a few lines for
him. He replied rather gruffly,
“Never mind, thanks,” and
walked out.
Later he must have thought
he had been ungracious, and
returned to explain why he did
not want any letter written. He
said:
“The postmark on the letter
will tell her where I am, the
money will tell her that I am in
good health and that I am
working, because otherwise
there would be no money for
her; and, further, that I am
thinking of her. She could not
learn much more from a letter
written from out here.”
I often thought of this lesson
from an illiterate man when I
have been trying the emphasise
the importance of the legibility
of postmarkings.
Another job we had from the
station-hands round about was
to measure them foi* suits. They
would come in with a self-
measurement form and a tape
provided by one of the city
mail-order houses, pay for a
money-order, ask you to address
the envelope, and then, in a
shy way, say, “Would you mind
measuring me for a suit?”
We always did these odd jobs,
and sometimes made good fists
of them. The greatest difficulty
was not in the actual measure-
ments, but in describing the
number of buttons they required,
whether they wanted a split coat
or not, or a vest buttoned right
up to the neck.
Sometimes they would ask us
to retain the suits till they called
for them, because they did not
wish their mates to know where
they were made. If the fitting
turned out satisfactory they
would lair-up and tell their
mates the name of • the most
expensive tailor’s and claim
they had them specially made.
i* i* •£♦
IN pre-Federation days nearly
all trains had a mail-van in
which a porter took charge of
the mails, whether in bags or
loose, and arranged to put them
off at the stations when the
train arrived. New South Wales
is now the only State where
Travelling Post Offices operate.
They provide an accelerated
mail-delivery service on all the
main lines, with sorting as the
train proceeds. Coming in to
Sydney, mails from country
places such as Wagga, Dubbo
and Kempsey are delivered to
all suburban offices on the morn-
ing of arrival; the mails are
circulated through the railway
post-offices, sorted and distri-
buted in direct bags to the
suburbs. Had this correspond-
ence to be processed at the
G.P.O. it would be delayed at
least seven hours.
The T.P.O.s make-up private
bags for residents at unattended
sidings and for places beyond
the terminus of the route. Most
of these people are graziers or
farmers, and they write to the
men in the van, sometimes send-
ing them a leg of mutton, a
(<Continued on page 34)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write ior our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. PITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
FOR SAU!
IRRIGATION KNOW-HOW
Progressive farmers and glaziers thronghout Australia and New
Zealand have acclaimed the Australasian Irrigator—the expertly
written, well illustrated monthly magazine devoted to all aspects of
irrigation, water harvesting and pasture farming—since its first
publication in December, 1955.
Be up to date witli all these new techniques that are changing
Australian farming methods and bringing greater production, profits
and seasonal security to the man on the land.
A Subscription to
THE
AUSTRALASIAN IRRIGATOR
is an investment
subscribe now. Get the full benefit of this progressive new journal
before the Irrigation season begins.
I enclose SO/- for 12 months’ subscription 10
THE AUSTRALASIAN IRRIGATOR,
Room 307, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
NAME ;
ADDRESS
(USE BLOCK ‘LETTERS)*
S.B. 950
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM
New Zealander Somerset Fair
won the Hill Stakes at Rosehill
last spring, starting at even-
■ money. He easily beat Kingster
and Prince Cortauld, the only
other starter being Prince Morvi,
now in America. Next Saturday s
Stakes should be more spectacu-
lar —maybe one of the best
races of the Sydney spring-
round of weight-for-age events.
The Hill Stakes drew the big
nomination, for it, of 31, the
entrants including such as
Syntax, Somerset Fair (now
back to best form), Knave
(popular for the Epsom), Red-
craze, Caranna, French Charm
“'(one of th« Epsom favorites),
Starover, Gentle Lu and Even-
ing Peal. At time of writing it
looks like being a most interest-
ing event.
The Hill Stakes has been won
by Australia’s and New
Zealand’s best horses, winners
including Phar Lap, Limerick,
Chatham, Peter Pan, Talking,
Gold Rod, High Caste, Yaralla,
Shannon, Bernborough and
Hydrogen. Some of these won
the race mbre than once. Jim
Pike rode no fewer than eight
Hill Stakes winners!
a » • •
Last spring the Theo Marks
Quality Handicap (seven furr
longs) at Rosehill proved a real
pointer to the Epsom, both races
being bagged by Hans, beating
the favorite King’s Fair by a
long head in the Epsom, with
Magic Carpet II third. This
year’s Quality Handicap entrants
included most of the horses
fancied for the Randwick mile.
Nilo (imp.)—sire of Rosehill
Guineas winner and A.J.C.
Derby prospect Gay Lover —is
already sire of a classics winner,
Pride of Egypt (V.R.C. Derby
and St. Leger and the A.J.C. St.
Leger), though most of his
progeny have been winners over
shorter distances. Gay Lover,
who had a really stylish win at
Rosehill, is raced by his breeder,
Lionel Israel, of Segenhoe stud,
Scone (N.S.W.). The colt’s dam,
Gay Romance, was 'a brilliant
sprinter, her wins including the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes, but,
tracing back to Spearmint, Gay
Lover has the right background
from a Derby viewpoint, and
should see the mile-and-a-half
right out. Rimfire, a surprise
Melbourne Cup winner, appears
in the colt’s pedigree.
The A.J.C. Derby field looks
wide open since the Rosehill
racing, two others to come well
into the picture besides Gay
Lover being Waterford and
Bernfield. Waterford had an im-
ported sire, Midstream, and an
imported dam, Amazonian, and
though he has won only in
minor company he has staying-
blood, his family-lines including
Sol Oriens, a winner of the Irish
Derby. Bernfield, a maiden till
Saturday, won at a mile-and-a-
quarter, the Auburn Stakes, and
should run the Derby distance,
as he’s by Boissier (imp.), a son
of Bois Roussel, and is from
Ginger Nymph by Probation
(imp.), and tracing back to
Martian, sire of several good
stayers.
In four races
within a month
Blazeaway has
covered upwards of
4j miles, in races,
in addition to several
miles on the train-
ing-track at Rose-
bery, and he should
strip a particularly
fit horse for the
Metropolitan, i n
which he has 7.13,
or 81b. less than he
won with in the
Rosehill Handicap.
He may have one
more run before the
big race.
Melbourne’s sprint
mare Just Mar-
guerite lived up to
reputation when she
won the Rosehill'
Flying in a close
finish from outsiders
Timor and Reign.
She had won three
races in succession,
Caulfield (two) and
Cranbourne, before
coming to Sydney.
She carried 7.13 at
Rosehill, and drops
to 7.8 in the Epsom.
It’s a bit late to talk about it
now, but the Mandingos stable
might have missed a winning-
chance in the Epsom. The five-
year-old Masthead gelding, one
of the finds of recent racing, has
now won at his last four starts
in near-record times and in easy
fashion. He took the final event
at Rosehill very nicely indeed.
New Zealander Ark Royal
wasn’t fancied much for the
V.R.C.’s weight-for-age Craiglee
Stakes (li mile), but he nearly
caused a boil-over, crossing the
line almost on terms with the
winner, second-favorite Sailor’s
Guide, who got the verdict by
a short-head. Pushover, a 200-
to-1 shot, was third; odds-on
favorite Rising Fast was only
fifth. Ark Royal confirmed the
fine reputation earned in N.Z.,
and at this his first Australian
appearance the four-year-old
Marco Polo II horse indicated
he will. be fit for the Melbourne
Cup, in which he has 9st.
(w.f.a.); Sailor’s Guide has 9.2.
Melbourne sportsman W. R.
Kemball, who has lifted many
thousands in stakes with his
usually-big team, added a further
£lOOO when three of his runners
shared in the prizemoney at
Flemington. Outsider Wood
earned £BOO for his win in the
Exford Handicap, in which
Wales (third) contributed £lOO
to the stable’s coffers, while
Camber’s third in the Burleigh
Handicap was worth another
£lOO to the non-betting owner.
Wood is by Underwood (imp.)
from White Blaze by Foxbridge
(imp.) from Rippling Waters by
Chief Ruler (imp.). White Blaze
was a smart winner in New
Zealand, with eight wins. Her
sister, Water Vixen, won a
Waikato Cup.
W. Briscoe, former crack Bris-
bane jockey, who also did well at
Sydney meetings, is making
excellent progress in training in
Brisbane; another winner was
added to his list at Doomben
when four-year-old Churaku
won the First Maiden (one mile)
in good style. Churaku is a son
of Carey and Wise Pal, a mare
by Wise Force from Rampal
by Rampion. *
This time last year two-year-
old filly Orionis cleared out with
a Randwick barrier-trial, win-
ning by 10 lengths. Her time,
48|sec., was best for the session,
and she was hailed as a potential
champion. However, in the
Gimcrack Stakes, starting at 7
to 4 on, she was easily beaten
by Sajax. Those who saw Court
Slipper make a similar exhibi-
tion of rivals in a Randwick
barrier-trial for two-year-old
fillies last week, showing all the
Orionis speed and recording
fastest time (48isec.), believe she
will succeed where Orionis
“Yes, dear—We won!”
failed. Court Slipper is a
daughter of Newtown Wonder
(imp.) and Tiny Slipper by
Brueghel (imp.). She is a sister
to New Slipper, winner of four
.Sydney races in succession, in
one of which, the A.J.C. Decem-
ber Stakes, she equalled the Aus-
tralian record (58isec.) for five
furlongs.
Judging by his impressive win
in the two-year-old trials at
Randwick —run under racing
conditions-—New Zealand-bred
Tulloch might win an early race
in Sydney. A smart-looking son
of Khorassan (imp.) and
Florida by Salmagundi (imp.),
Tulloch is a product of the
Trelawny stud, Cambridge. He’s
a first foal; his dam won a num-
ber of races, including the
Avondale Cup.
* * «
Two 10-furlong free-for-alls in
the last week have kept the wind
out for top-class pacers getting
ready for Sydney’s Spring Cup
next month. In both runs it was
on for young and old from the
word “Go! ” In his second
registered start for his new
trainer, Alley, the Lawn Derby
horse Andi led them in *at
Menangle last Wednesday in a
race that had its share of inci-
dents. The three horses to follow
Andi in were victims of his
veering-in in the straight, and
they’re all nearing top racing
nick —Secret Spring, Active Ayr,
Van Hall.
In the Harold Park affair on
Saturday night, speedy Spring-
field Guy was soon in front
doing his darndest to run them
off their legs, and fifty yards
from the post looked to have
done just that, when the tactics
backfired: with the race won,
he broke-up and was lucky to
fill third placing behind Mineral
Spring and Strathfield Jack. In
his first run from a spell, Mineral
Spring put in a splendid run. A
full brother, grey steel Spring,
reported to be every bit as
good as the young brother —he’s
had a long break from racing
with dicky legs—had a run on
the same programme. It was
his second from the break, and
his fifth to Pay All looked a
shade better than his first effort;
he’s worth watching.
When Pay All, down from the
scrub, started favorite in a
Qualifying Stakes and his
driver soon after the start had
the cane on his back and was
“fishing” him with the reins in
the manner which is very often
the last resort with a beaten
horse, people began to wonder.
In his three wins on end this
time up—within the space of a
week—Pay All has responded
the same way to the same treat-
ment ; and it seems the more
Miles bounces in the gig and
urges him on to the bit with a
vigorous reefing of the reins the
better the baldy-faced light bay
responds. Last Friday he won
over Ilf furlongs at Harold
Park, rated 2.9 f and was first
there by eight lengths ; on Wed-
nesday he came from 12yds. to
win over 10 furlongs at Men-
angle, rating slightly worse than
2.10; at Harold Park again on
Saturday he won by 2\ lengths
over 13| furlongs in a 2.11 f bat.
A son of Lawn Derby, from the
Machine Brick mare Rock Shell,
Pay All in his present form
could pay-off in the Spring
Handicap.
’ '
t .
. Melbourne is V.F.L. premier
i n this Olympic year, and fittingly
so. The Demons completely
artnihilated Collingwood in the
grand-final last Saturday 17.19-
6.l2—and an all-time Australian
record football-crowd of 116,002,
paying £19,046, saw them do it.
Headed only in the first quarter,
Melbourne capped a year in
which it was beaten only twice,
by Footscray and (by two points)
by Geelong. Through the season
the side > revealed only one
discernible weakness, lack of a
goalkicking full-forward, but
even this was outweighed by
having brilliant rovers and ruck-
, men who, in general play or
resting in forward-pockets, could
kick enough to suffice. (Still,
full-forward Webb kicked five
beauties on Saturday, while, in-
cidentally, ’Wood’s Ken Smale,
hero against Footscray a week
before, was practically
blanketed.) Physical strength,
pace, reliable high-marking and
solid defence combined to make
Melbourne the premier team for
the second successive year.
* * »
Gordon won Sydney Rugby
Union’s 1956 premiership, stop-
ping St. George 13-11 in the
grand-final. Gordon last won in
1952; St. George, which thus
just failed to make it a “double”
for the district of League and
Union premierships, has not yet
won the pennant. The game was
hard-fought and exciting, with
not much between the teams;
St. George had its chances, but
didn’t take enough of them. The
r ival skippers, Gordon’s
energetic front-row forward Bob
Davidson and the losers’ Alan
Cameron, one of the best
forwards in Australia today, are
at present sharing favoritism for
skipper of the Australian side
to tour Britain next year.
“Selja”: One of St. George’s
hardest workers was 30-year-old
front-row forward Jack Baxter
—who, as a 19-year-old R.A.A.F.
ground-staff man, had his left
leg nearly shot away by a Jap
sniper in Borneo in 1945, and
who was told he’d never play
anything more strenuous than
golf. By a great coincidence
Sydney Rugby Union possessed
'another more-or-less contem-
porary Jack Baxter, now retired,
also a front-row forward (with
Easts), who was very badly
injured in the explosion on
H.M.A.S. Tarakan in Sydney
Harbor on« Jan. 25, 1950, and
who was told he, too, would
never play again—yet who did so
for two or three years, gaining
State honors, after spending
more than a year in hospital-
bed.
* * *
In an Olympic-trial meetingita
Sydney last Sunday 18-year-old
Sydney lass Betty Cuthbert set
a new 200-metres world-record,
23.25ec. Previous record was
Marjorie Jackson’s 23.45ec., set
at the Helsinki Olympic Games.
* * *
Kel Nagle played brilliant
golf to win the N.S.W. profes-
sional championship, finishing
with a total of 274' for 72 holes
and winning by seven strokes;
his score read: 69, 68, 69, 68.
Frank Phillips was second with
281 ; Les Wilson third, 284.


lamps
jnirn .
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA
The famous
Solingen knives
lilt
m
BOWIE
\s
dr
A ■■■:
w'
A
mi
r dK
v,
• The Bowie knife is of the
original design made by Colonel
Bowie during the Indian fighting
days of U.S.A. Strong, rugged
and a beautiful blade perfectly
weighted. Staghorn handle.
Fringed leather sheaths. Length
I 2 inches. Price 75/-. Post free.
• The Stag Hunting Knife, Eagle’s head pommel, staghorn handle,
blade etched in three colours. Leather sheath.
Price 50/-. Post free.
• The Rhine Maiden Hunting Knife, with hammer-forged blade.
Splendid-balance. Beautifully sculptured metal handle, gold finished.
Length with metal-tipped dress sheath. Price 50/-. Posted.
• The famous Black Forest Hunting Knife with metal tipped dress
sheath. Price 45/-. Post free.
• Also the TORCH KNIFE. Pre-focused torch in handle.
Price 65/-. Post free.
ALL C.O.D. CHARGES ARE EXTRA \
RIP OUT AND POST
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS, Box 7051, G.P.0., Sydney. B 19/9
Please Supply ,•
For which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
283 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. PHONE: BM 3102
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem, “The Tale of an
Old Gum Tree,” containing the
stanza: —
I've waited and watched for a hundred
years
And my limbs are twisted and bent.
There’s a burn in my side that the bush-
fires made,
And a hole that the lightning rent.
—6391.
To buy copy of The “Bulletin”
Reciter. —f 53 94.
Copies of newspapers and maga-
zines containing articles on Louis
Becke, the Australian novelist and
short-story writer.—6392.
To buy copy of The Book of
Health (recently published), by Drs.
Clark and Cumley, U.S.A.; new or
secondhand. —6393.
To buy two copies of The Bulletin
of September 2, 1953, containing
supplement “Henry Lawson’s
Country.”—639s.
To buy copy of Henry Lawson by
His Mates, edited by J. Le Gay
Brereton and Bertha Lawson. —6396.
Information Sought
Can a person who has been a
voluntary patient in a mental institu-
tion ever be admitted to a hospital-
benefits scheme ? What of an
involuntary patient ?
Persons who have been voluntary
or involuntary patients of a mental
institution may become members of a
registered hospital-benefits organisa-
tion. However, in some cases
membership is subject to certain con-
ditions. These depend on the medical
history of the person seeking enrol-
ment, and such history must be pro-
vided by the applicant before member-
ship is effected. If the applicant
desires family-coverage, this informa-
tion is also required in respect of
each dependant. Where membership
is conditional, a person is enrolled by
an organisation on condition that it
is not liable to pay its own benefit
(as distinct from Commonwealth
additional benefit) for any illness of a
chronic nature, to which the person
may have been subject during the
past and which could result in
extended periods of hospitalisation in
the future. Mental illnesses can, in
certain circumstances, be termed
“chronic,” and it may be in these
instances that organisations will not
grant full hospital-coverage to a
person who has suffered, or is suffer-
ing from, these ailments. For all
other kinds of illnesses, however (not
being conditional), which necessitate
a stay in hospital, the person would
be eligible to receive payment of
organisation-benefit on completion of
the two-to-three-months’ probationary
period (nine-to-twelve-months for
maternity cases). With Common-
wealth additional benefits (payable at
the rate of 4s. per day), it is advised
that immediately a person joins a
registered hospital-benefits ' organisa-
tion he qualifies for payment of such
benefits, irrespective of his state of
health at the time of enrolment.
Organisation-benefits and Common-
wealth additional benefits are not
available to anyone who is a patient
of a mental institution. This is the
responsibility of the State.
*** * *
Information on former Finnish
distance-runner Paavo JSurmi ?
Bom, June 13, 1897. At the 1920
Olympic Games (Antwerp) he won
the 10,000-metres track (31min.
45.85ec.) and 10,000-metres cross-
country races, and was narrowly
pipped by the Frenchman Guillemot
in the 5000-metres track race. Then
he set out to break every long-distance
world-record, and almost succeeded:
he set new times for all distances from
1500-metres to 10-miles, and broke the
record for the one-hour’s run. As
well as the 1920 Games, he also com-
peted at the 1924 (Paris) and 1928
(Amsterdam) Games, and won in all
seven gold-medals. He would run,
without hesitation, two strenuous
races less than an hour apart. In the
1924 Games, he started in six races
in six days (two of them in the one
day) —and won all six! At Amster-
dam, his powers on the wane, he
nevertheless easily won the 10,000-
metres (30min. 18.8 sec.), and, with
a sprained ankle and wrenched hip,
was just beaten in the 5000-metres,
by another Finn, Ritola. Had his
last major race in 1931, when he won
a special 2-mile event in world-
record Bmin. 59.65ec. —first time
9min. had been broken. (He was
claimed to have run the mile in 4min.
o.6sec., but this time was never
recognised.) Stern and unsmiling,
but with grace and beauty in his run-
ning, he usually ran with a stop-
watch in his hand. All his records are
now broken; but, at his peak, he was
the greatest distance-runner the
world had then seen. In 1952 he was
given the honor of carrying the
Olympic torch into the stadium.
* * * *
Who was John Boyle O’Reilly ?
Born in Ireland in 1844, he was
transported after trial by court-
martial for treasonable activities as a
Fenian while serving in the 10th
Hussars, which he had joined for the
purpose of subverting the troops. He
arrived in W.A. in Jan., 1868, but in
Feb., 1869, escaped on a whaling-
vessel to the U.S.A. There he
became well-known as a writer and
lecturer, and for 15 years edited a
Boston newspaper called “The Pilot.”
(He had had newspaper experience in
Ireland.) He is the first poet-novelist
connected with W.A. His main writ-
ings are two novels, Moondyne: a
Story of the Underworld (1879) and
The Golden Secret: a Tale of the
Bush and Convict Life in W.A. (1887),
and two books of poems, Songs from
the Southern Seas, and Other Poems
(1873) and Songs, Legends and Ballads
(1882). In 1891 was published The
Life of Johnr Boyle O’Reilly (with
complete poems and speeches), by 3. J.
Roche. Australian Literature, by
Miller and Macartney, describes his
verse as “thoughtful and competent
but of no high distinction,” and
criticises him for following earlier
writers who claimed all Australia's
flowers were scentless and all its birds
songless. His reputation in America
naturally differs from what it was in
England, towards which he was always
hostile. He died in Boston on Aug.
10, 1890.
Brief Answers
E.V.W.: Bulletin black-and-white
artist Bert Levy died 22 years ago.
An obituary notice of him appeared in
The Bulletin of August 15, 1934
C.R.M.: Contact Stott’s. Correspond-
ence College, only a few doors up, at
254 Murray-street, Perth E.K. and
E.L.F.: Write The Secretary, Kennel
Control Council, 422 Collins-street,
Melbourne 8.R.: Probably “The
Shearer’s Dream,” by Henry Lawson,
which appears in Australian Bush
Ballads R.T.N.: N0....A.T.: (1)
Poultry-feeding methods vary con-
siderably : they can be fed an all-mash
ration, a grain-mash ration or a free-
choice ration, where the bird is
allowed free access to both mash and
grain. The mash is the essential part,
for unless a good-quality, high-
protein mash is fed, good egg-produc-
tion cannot be expected. (2) It is
generally only worth while to mix
your own feed when a good-sized flock
is run. (3) Turkeys are fed much the
same, a difference being that they
require a mash containing a higher
protein-level. Whereas laying-mashes
for fowls generally contain 17 p.c.
protein, a mash for turkeys, where
grain was also being fed, would need
to contain at least 19 p.c. protein to
ensure good growth. (4) You can
use the laying-mash for your fowls as
a base. If you use a commercially-
prepared laying-mash of 17 p.c. pro-
tein, the addition of 101 b. of meat-
meal and 31b. of livermeal would
make a suitable ration' for your
turkeys; salt would already have been
included in the commercial mash. (5)
A fowl will eat approximately 201 b.
of food from day-old to point-of-lay.
The food-consumption, therefore,
could be estimated at approximately
2-3 oz. of mash and 2oz. of grain a
day. Turkeys would require about
1001 b. of feed to rear them to market-
able age—say, 6-7 months
J. McR.: In those circumstances, cer-
tainly J.W.: Our widest-travelled
staff-man advises that after about two
hours at sea, following an earnest
discussion on the subject with other
passengers, you will probably forget
anything that we suggest now, any-
way. His serious advice, however, is
to tip early, with a veiled suggestion of
greater things to come. Then, depend-
ing on the service given during the
trip, you can always square-up at-the
end of the journey. You must remem-
ber that there will be a cabin-steward,
a dining-steward and a bathroom-
steward, not to mention the bar-
steward. With all, tip early, never
overtip; from other passengers and
from your own early experience, you
will form your own opinion on “a
fair tip.” We hope the advice, vague
as it is, is helpful. About the next
best thing we can do is wish you
“Bon voyage /”... .R.W.C.: Mabel
Wain Smith’s Land of Swift-running
Horses was published by George G.
Harrap, London, last month. Sup-
plies should be available in the Sydney
bookshops shortly... .D.J.M.: Write
F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., 338 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne H.P.:
Child-endowment is already payable
to qualified persons who take-up per-
manent residence in Australia. Under
the agreement, families coming from
the U.K. for temporary residence in
Australia will be paid a U.K. family-
allowance... .A.T.K.: At the 1954
census cities and towns outside the
metropolitan area with a population
of 3000 and over were: N.S.W., 67;
Vic., 40; Qld., 29; S.A., 9; W.A., 7;
Tas., 6; 1; A.C.T., 1....
A.J.8.: (1) No sailing-ship Queen
Bee on Lloyd’s Register. In 1860, the
year you state she voyaged to Sydney,
a Queen of Avon arrived from
London. (2) There was a Peerless (146
tons) of St. John’s, Newfoundland,
but we could not trace her ever
coming to Australia... .J.A.H.: An
increase in the salaries of those two
officers of the board would not follow
merely from its acquisition of the
swimming-pool. They couldn’t “up”
their salaries off their own bat
S.M.-S.: Afraid we had absolutely
no luck at all. The only one we
could trace was the Lionel JLindsay
etching, which is not what you
wanted 8.R.: (1) Only two Tests
were played on Australia’s 1890
cricket-tour of England, the third one,
set down for Manchester, being
washed-out. Top-score for Australia
in that series was Victorian left-
hander J. E. Barrett’s 67 not-out in
the second innings at Lord’s. He
batted through an innings of 176, first
time this had been done in Tests. (2)
Yes, this 1956 tour is the first one
by Australia since 1890 in which no
Australian batsman has made a Test-
century.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.P.: Not enough marrow in its
bones... .8.M.: The verse is feeble;
and the mere fact that a man
appeared on the beach in pyjamas
'isn’t thrilling F.D.W.: There are
too many twin brothers and sisters
in that story for our liking
C.0’8.: Bears the same relation to
poetry as did the late Felicia
Dorothea He mans E.F.H.:
Clumsy prose, masquerading as verse.
F. McL.: The last stanza was the
best:
With hair on end and breathing last,
“Thank Heaven!” he cried, “at last, at
last.
That nearly was the death of me,
No more I’ll try to write poetry.”
... .P.N.; You dawdle too long on
,the way S.M.H.: Says nothing
worth saying in a very wooden
fashion... .R.G.: A paper that has to
cover the Australian continent once
a week can’t afford much space for
an eccentric in an English village.
M.D.G.: Those vague moral
generalities are rather tedious read-
ing W.T.A.: Send it to the girl
herself. If she can tolerate the
rhymes, the grammar and the con-
ventional avowals you have proof that
she must Really love you F.D.:
You use up three pages saying you
are going to tell us a yarn and in
the four that follow fail to keep
your promise... .P.H.: The doleful
slab of misery didn’t move a tear.
T.S.: Faint pencil never won
fair perusal... .E.H.H.: Suitable for
writing in a lady’s album —that is, if
the lady is not too particular
8.W.: We read on ar.d on and on
hoping to come to some sort of point,
but the thing merely lost itself in a
slither of commonplace words
L.T.: Don’t get the idea that you
have written a sonnet when you have
chopped 14 lines to the required
length and put the rhymes in the
right places... .G.K.W.: The old
swagman is about as interesting as an
old turnip... .Y.W.: The dog that
was the “pride of the township” was
chased home F.T.F.: Yes, the
night and day take turn about, but
it scarcely can claim to be an
original observation H. 8.: The
same old dull sermon in worse verse.
T.McM.: Aspirations after “end-
less joys” in some remote place always
seem to express themselves in poor
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
imitative verse... .E.E.: Your
soliloquising landlady is going home.
W.A.S.: Nearly as good as some
of the worst, stories in the weakest
magazines... iM.D.: A vein of fancy
that is worth developing; but you’ll
need a lot of practice with your pen.
H.S.: Verse that merely describes
a scene in superlatives is hardly ever
worth while... .D.J.R.: Can’t remem-
ber it, but it’s not hard to guess its
fate if it was anything like the present
sample F.J.C.: Get down off your
stilts K.W.: It is pretty hard on
Australia to have things like that
thrown at her... .S.C.H.: Not quite
a shocking example, but very near to
it BX.: For Heaven’s sake come
and take that emu away... .F. 8.:
All it did was to send the Religious
Editor’s understudy on a jag.


jFuiJJt in the
\
>
I believe we have come to a time in Australia’s
history when we have to clear our thoughts on just
where we are going nationally. We’ve had moVe
than half a century since Federation to think
about it.
A first requirement, as I see it, is to get it into
our minds that we are in fact a nation, and not a
collection of six rival States with a Commonwealth
system fastened on to it.
Look at the map and you’ll see how accidental
our development so far has been.
A line running down from the north-west to
the Bight reminds us that in 1829 all territory west
of the 129th meridian' —976,000 square miles, about
one-third of the whole continent—was portioned
off as Western Australia.
A fence drawn along the 29th parallel marks
Queensland’s separation from New South Wales
in 1859. And so on, with the other States and
the Northern Territory.
These were the political divisions necessary to
quarter a large country, to pave the way for what
we have in government and settlement today.
But no barriers should be allowed to cut
across our vision now, when the call is for the
most positive approach to uncovering the national
wealth. Whatever the answers to our problems,
we must at least get vitality and virility into that
task.
Forty per cent, of the Australian land mass is
within the tropical zone. There is the challenge—
and the opportunity.
In the northern half of -the continent minerals
for the new age await the winning in a volume
unknown, and richly indicated in such places as
Mount Isa and the uranium deposits at Mary
Kathleen and Rum Jungle.
The minerals will be won, with an effort in
exploration, and faith in financing the effort. But
to speed the day we’ve to condition our minds to
taking the truly national course; thinking less of
border lines and more of Australia’s future in
latitudinal terms.
$
Efaiablisliert 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JAC
OSUIXIVAN
a. mw
ERV*2
MARK
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson 4 Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, Hew Tor*
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MAKARIOS AND CYPRUS
nnHE publication by the British
Government of captured
E.O.K.A. documents confirming
the part of the exiled Archbishop
Makarios in terrorist activities in
Cyprus has apparently done little
to reconcile two schools of
thought in the British press.
On the one hand, these have
held that exile of the Archbishop
to the Seychelles was fair
enough in view of his intransig-
ence ; the other view has been
that, as the only real leader of
the Cypriots, he is the only figure
with whom conclusive negotia-
tions are possible.
As the following comment
indicates, documentary proof
that the Archbishop initiated
bloodshed and violence has only
driven the different opinions
more firmly into their respective
corners.
London “Daily Mail”: “He
[Makarios] now stands exposed
as among the guiltiest of the
guilty. He was the inspiration
and the organiser of terror.”
* * *
London “Daily Express” :
“The only condition on which he
could ever be tolerated in Cyprus
again would be to stand trial
for complicity in murder.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “The evid-
ence should be sifted by a court
of law. It should be clearly
established how far this religious
leader can be held responsible
for the murderous attacks
launched in Cyprus.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“A revulsion of feeling against
so ruthless a leader, coupled with
the successes of the security-
forces in rooting out the remain-
ing terrorists, will bring forward
the real ‘moderates.’ If so, the
prospect o f constructive
negotiation on self-government is
better than it could have been
as long as Makarios remained
unmasked.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “There
has been no obvious sign as yet
—but rather the reverse that
more moderate men would in
fact be prepared to step forward
and take the place of Makarios ;
even if they did, it is not clear
that they would be supported by
Cypriot opinion or that they
would feel able to negotiate while
the Archbishop remains in the
Seychelles.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“From the very beginning the
dispute has been bedevilled by
the difference between the out-
look of the British authorities
on the one hand and that of
the Greek Cypriots on the other.
To the Colonial Office E.O.K.A.
appears simply as a criminal
conspiracy against and
order. It is regarded by the
Greek Cypriots as a patriotic
struggle in which violence was
only resorted to after years of
peaceful agitation had met with
no response.
“The British regard a political
bishop with horror, whereas to
the Greek the mitre is a badge
of political leadership as much
as of ecclesiastical office.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald”: “But
these hard facts remain:
“Makarios is a hero in
Cyprus.
‘nhe history of terrorism
proves that it can be ended only
by bringing the terrorist leaders
round the peace-table.
“And there is nobody else in
Cyprus with whom negotiations
can be started now.”
* * *
London “New Statesman":
“The evidence so far available
suggests that the Archbishop,
whatever his morals, remains
the effective political leader of
the Cypriot independence-move-
ment and that any fruitful
negotiation which is to take
place must be with him. In the
end, it is the leader alone who
can bargain about terms.”
* * #
London “Spectator”: “It is
high time that the [British] Gov-
ernment made up its mind
whether it is conducting a
lesson in morals or trying to
reach a settlement. Whether or
not Archbishop Makarios was
wrong to refuse to condemn
violence, he was probably the
only man with whom a settle-
ment could be negotiated ; and
his deportation made this prob-
ability into a certainty.
“In cases like Ireland, Pales-
tine and Cyprus, moral judg-
ments are a luxury that we
cannot afford. If the Govern-
ment still wants a settlement it
will have to talk to the Arch-
bishop.”
* * #
“Manchester Guar d i a n”:
“There is a strong suggestion
that because Makarios is now
discredited as a ‘moderate’ we
[Britain] cannot,'and need not,
ever negotiate with him again.
If this is to be our policy, it will
be a badly mistaken policy.
“In Ireland we had to deal
with Michael Collins because he
had just enough weight to carry
Ireland with him and was also
prepared to negotiate with us. If
that is Makarios’s position in
Cyprus we shall have, in the
end, to, deal with him, too,
‘personal director’ or no.”
German Communist
Ban
London “Time and Tide”
comment on the banning of the
Communist party in West Ger-
many:
“The German Federal Repub-
lic has a Constitution which, as
far as is humanly possible,
guarantees the liberty of the sub-
ject under the rule of law. But
the moment the Constitution
operates in strict conformity
with its own principles, there is
a display of surprised indigna-
tion.
“The Supreme Court at Karls-
ruhe, after sessions that began
London “Daily Mail"
HEADLESS'WANDER
in November, 1954, has passed
judgment that the German Com-
munist Party is illegal. The
judgment has been followed by
the suppression of the party and
its press. The verdict does not
apply to West Berlin, which
not under the jurisdiction of the
Federal Government.
“That the verdict of the court
is juridically unimpeachable is
not seriously contested. But, it
is argued, the suppression of a
political party is -an act of
intolerance, the party itself is
small and does very little harm
(it has about 70,000 members),
the verdict against it will be
prejudicial to friendly relations
between Bonn and Moscow and
to the prospects of German
reunion.
“These arguments, which
amount to a plea that the
German Constitution be adapted
to political expediency, are
entirely irrelevant. The Supreme
Court had to make a juridical,
not a political decision. Had
it done the latter or had it
refused to give a verdict at all for
political reasons —it would have
struck a blow at the foundations
of the German Constitutional
order.
“The plea of political expedi-
ency is wholly inadmissible ; but,
even if it were admitted, it would
not be valid. Although the
German Communist Party is
small, it does a great deal of
harm —harm of the familiar
kind. It exists to overthrow the
German Constitutional order by
violence —or in co-operation with
an invading army—and to estab-
lish a dictatorship. It is an
agency of a foreign Power and
its existence is highly prejudicial
to friendly relation with that
Power (that is to say, between
Bonn and Moscow).
“As for going underground,
the party has always been under-
ground. There is not a Com-
munist party in the whole of the
free world that is not under-
ground, although there are
some, like the British Communist
Party, which are above ground
as well, like molehills.
"Article 21 of the ‘Basic Law,’
on which the verdict of the court
was based, runs thus:
“ ‘Parties which, according to
their aims and the behavior of
their members, seek to impair or
ahplish the free and democratic
order or to jeopardise the exist-
ence of the Federal Republic of
Germany shall be illegal.’
“Surely this is clear enough.”
U.S. Aid fer India
America’s embarrassing farm-
surplus and India’s Budgetary
problems seem to have been well
met in the latest arrangement
between the two countries, India
to receive U.S. wheat, cotton,
rice, tobacco and dairy-products
on a long-term repayment basis.
India, like Britain, comments
Edinburgh “Scotsman,” is find-
ing that she is paying too much
for her imports and must try,
therefore, to increase her exports.
It would help her considerably if
she could get her imports more
cheaply. In effect, the United
States is giving India something
to live on while she devotes her
energies to developing transport
and heavy-industry as envisaged
in the [second Five-year] plan.
“India needs foreign credits,
and she is nojv getting them from
the United States. It is ironical
that a country aiming at State
capitalism should be helped in
this direction by the most indi-
vidualistic State "in the world,
but this is presumably to be
explained by the fear that other-
wise India might go Communist.”
In a survey of India’s efforts
to preserve a neutral course


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. ... 2/r
Yearly Subscription..,. ** 22/6
ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
i:*:. ::
..K
I J to
.
iSffiwSSs?
m
.
J
m
•:W>>s
1
fcB£*s
li
zMMs# -
M
:
SSftfca
im
Sir Walter Merriman (second from left) being congratulated by one of
the three judges after winning the Merino Ram Grand Championship.
Sir Walter says: “1 have used Ampol Products on my several properties for
years and am convinced that not only Ampol Motor Spirit, but Ampol Kerosines,
Distillate and Oils meet the high standards required by the Primary Producing Indus-
try. 1 find that Ampol’s renowned Service extends beyond their Service Stations
to ‘‘The Man on the Land” through the friendly efficiency of their Country Agents
Use the best
• • •
Australia's own
%
II
a
ot
P o
□
POWER KEROSINE
•1.. . s '
Plus Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM.19.33
between East and West, “New
York Times” writer C. L. Sulz-
-eraer also considers it fortunate
that the U.S. has decided to offer
Vehru “massive economic help.”
The arrangement, Sulzberger
notes, “maintains American
influence in New Delhi, although
that obsessively awkward capital
is likely to be less than gracious
in acknowledgments. Also it
eases the pressure on our [U.S.]
farmers of unmarketable
surpluses”:
“During the current fiscal year
some $7O-million in develop-
ment and technical assistance will
go to India. The supplementary
accord will promise about $4O0 J
million additional raw-material
help over the next three years.
“Included will be 110-million
bushels of wheat, 500,000 bales
of cotton, plus dairy-products
and tobacco.
“This will be sold on credit
at lower interest-rates over a
long-term repayment period and
against rupees, not cash from
New Delhi’s limited hard-
currency supply. Rupees received
will defray American official
expenditures in India or be re-
loaned for development-projects.
“For India,” Sulzberger adds,
“this arrangement is a godsend.
Nehru’s second Five-year Plan
now has substantial insurance
against any disastrous crop-
failure. India’s economy is
bolstered against threats of infla-
tion in a period when purchasing-
power is scheduled to rise 25 per
cent. Finally, New Delhi
receives new funds for its
economic programme.
“From our [U.S.] viewpoint
the undertaking is also satis-
factory. The Administration
hopes the' accord will strengthen
American farm-prices. And, in
the critical struggle to maintain
a power-balance by protecting
independent countries against
Soviet influence, We are helping
India to stand upon her feet.”
Amateurs and
Professionals
Salt Lake City (U.S.A.)
“Deseret News” comment on the
special Olympic oath which
requires participants in the forth-
coming Games to swear that they
are amateurs now and will
remain so for ever after:
“This is absurd on its face.
Closer examination makes it
appear even more so.
“Since the international
Olympic body will accept each
country’s own definition of
amateurism, the oath means the
State-supported athletes of Com-
munist countries may go on
being State-supported athletes
indefinitely without violating
their Olympic oaths. United
States athletes, who are genuine
amateurs, are supposed to
promise they will never become
professional athletes for all time
to come.
“Avery Brundage, the contro-
versial head of our [U.S.]
Olympic Committee, says the
oath has been ’officially in-
terpreted’ so that it will not bar
an Olympic contestant from later
pursuing a ‘legitimate’ career in
physical-education as a coach, an
administrator, in press- or radio-
coverage.
“This is more baffling than
anything else on the subject. Just
why is a coach, or, for that
matter, a college professor of
physical-education, more ‘legiti-
mate’ than an avowed honest
professional baseball-player?
“In any event, how can any
Olympic contestant honestly
promise he will never enter a
career in professional sports?
If he has family responsibilities,
as most will, he might be vir-
tually forced to accept a good
and honest offer. Surely he would
bg no more an offender against
the Olympic code than the pro-
fessional man who inevitably
benefits, business-wise, from his
Olympic reputation without im-
properly advertising it.”
Russian Communism
Recalling a prophecy by Lenin
before the Bolshevik revolution
—that two countries on Europe’s
periphery, Spain and Russia,
were ripe for Communism —
Axel Heyst, in London “Time
and Tide,” goes on to speculate
that, as with Spain, time could
yet contradict Lenin on Russia.
“Russia,” Heyst comments,
“may, in the fullness of time,
become another Spain: a
bureaucratic - military dictator-
ship, with the Communist party
as stale and sterile as the Spanish
Falange. Thus history may yet
play a nasty joke on the great
prophet now hurriedly resur-
rected.
“What is the likelihood that
fate will reverse Lenin’s fore-
cast? I don’t think it .entirely
fantastic. Every totalitarian
State is based on three pillars of
power: the Party, the Secret
Police and the Army. Stalin’s
death dealt a severe blow to the
prestige and the standing of the
party ; and in spite of all the
frantic efforts of the new rulers
to instil new vigor into the
sclerotic party’s veins and to
refurbish its stale slogans, there
are many signs pointing to a
constant drain of its energy.
“The return to Lenin is the
best proof of the lack of dynam-
ism in the Soviet Communist
Party: it is trying to hark back
to the heroic era of Com-
munism. But the Communist
party of today is a far cry from
what it was then. It is buried
under the dead weight of bureau-
cracy, of social privilege, of the
too-long wait for the promised
millennium.
“Communism in Russia is a
spent force: new zest may
spring up in China or some other
Asiatic country, but the Soviet
battery cannot be recharged by
those new forces ; it can hardly
gain impetus from foreign
inspiration. On the contrary,
they are in uncomfortable com-
petition with the Communist
State weighed down by its
iniquities and its deadly
bureaucracy.
“The Soviet secret-police was
weakened by the liquidation of
Beria. The new regime must
have reshaped and reorganised
the old cadres of the MVD and
the reorganisation of that ‘State
within the State’ must still be
in full swing. But one is entitled
to doubt whether the new or
re-formed secret-police can ever
assume the cohesion and effi-
ciency that it had under Stalin
and Beria. A secret-police does
not fare well under collective
leadership, it has to be an
instrument in the hands of one
or two men.
“Thus the Soviet Army seems
to be almost automatically pro-
moted to the forefront. For the
time being it does not intend to
attract too much attention and
the party is obviously conscious
of the increasing popularity of
the Army. Everyone leaving
Russia testifies to the great expec-
tations the Russian nation has of
the future role of the Red Army,
The Russian nation thinks that
Army-rule would be the most
liberal Russia is capable of. For
no real and deep liberalisation in
Russia is expected as long as the
party holds the reins.
“In these hopes the Russians
seem to be reproducing the
situation of the Germans under
Hitler; many of them thought
that successful opposition to
Hitler could only come from the
ranks of the Army; that the
Army represented the most
‘decent’ code of behavior; and
that in the event of Hitler’s down-
fall it was the Army which would
be most likely to create a more
liberal regime.
“We do not know what course
the new ferment in Russia will
take, but we can expect further
deterioration in the moral posi-
tion of the Soviet Communist
Party. Russia may be in for a
prolonged ‘time of trouble,’ not
an unknown phenomenon in her
history. Russia passed through
a disturbing period of unrest
after the death of, Ivan the
Terrible. The chances of the
Army’s slowly winning ascend-
ancy over the party are by no
means to be ignored: Lenin’s
prophecy a rebours may be ful-
filled in Russia in our time. The
Mecca of revolution may become
a vast Spairf—a bureaucratic-
military dictatorship.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Mungindi to Murray Bridge
• Eight years ago on this page I
suggested harnessing the Murray-Darling
river-system for navigation and the
creation of a deep-sea port at Murray
Bridge to give the inland waterways a
direct link with deep-sea transport. Now
“L.C.G.” (B. 8/8/’56) puts similar views,
and to support our schemes here are some
facts and figures about the U.S.A.’s inland
and intracoastal waterways.
The Missouri-Mississippi system and
tributaries, together with canals con-
necting to the Great Lakes and those
forming the Eastern Seaborde Intra-
coastal Waterway, total 15,000 miles and
carry millions of tons of goods annually.
The slow stern-wheelers of Mark
Twain’s day have given way to powerful
radar - equipped, multiscrewed diesel
toWr boats ’pushing cargoes of 10,800 tons
at average speeds of up to 15 miles an
hour. These tows are common on the
Ohio, Missouri and Mississippi Rivers,
and are formed of 12 barges each loaded
with 900 tons. On the Monongahela (a
tributary of the Ohio) 27-million tons of
coal are moved each year. In all, the
Ohio and tributaries have 3165 miles of
navigable waters with 138 locks con-
trolling floods and assuring year-round
navigation.
From Cincinnati triple-decked vehicle-
carriers, loaded with 500 cars and trucks,
cruise at 17 miles an hour down the Ohio
and up the Tennessee River delivering
the cars and trucks to riverside ports. In
one recent year 82-million tons were
shipped 4800 miles between St. Paul and
New Orleans on the Mississippi in barge-
trains, many 1200 ft. long. Since the war,
goods carried on inland waterways have
doubled and increasing tonnages are
handled every year, despite fierce com-
petition from railways and road-trans-
port. On the Intracoastal Waterway,
from the Rio Grande to tfie Hudson,
barge-traffic competes with bcean trans-
port, even though the latter is faster,
shorter and not impeded b.y locks and
bridges.
This pattern could be applied to the
inland rivers of the three eastern States
of Australia. Because there are no
bridges between the sea and Murray
Bridge and because no locks would be
necessary—the river rises less than 2ft.
from its mouth —Murray Bridge would,
with dredging, be the ideal ocean port
and transhipment centre for the river-
“Contractor must've gone bung in the middle ao un t Maiolher.”
traffic. As the town is also situated on
the main Adelaide-Melbourne railway
(with several branches) the port would
also serve a large .district remote from
the river.
To speed and increase individual ship-
ments as far as Mungindi, Wagga and
Albury, the Murray, Murrumbidgee and
Darling Rivers should be locked their
whole lengths. Bends of the rivers should
be ironed-out and dredged to shorten
tortuous channels and allow tows of per-
haps 300 ft. to move at appreciable speeds
pushed by diesel-powered tow-boats.
Today these rivers are devoid of mari-
time glory, except for a few tourist-
vessels on the Murray. But there could
be a rebirth of the river-trade. Then
perhaps the Talywalka, with a 10-barge
tow, will signal the lockmaster at Went-
worth that she is upstream bound for
Mungindi to load wool on her return
voyage down the Darling; and on the
parent stream the triple-decked m.-v.-c.
(motor-vehicle-carrier) Riverina Holden
will ask for open bridges while delivering
cars and utilities at all points to Albury
and Wagga Wagga.—C. A. L. (W.A.).
Savings Campaign
Since part of our economic troubles is
due to insufficient savings to finance the
developmental needs of a fast-growing
population, why not start a savings
campaign?
The three recently established private
savings-banks could, by advertising,
demonstrate the advantages of saving the
money needed to buy a radio or TV-set
or household appliance rather than paying
the high charges of hire-purchase. At
least £lOO could be saved on the cost of
a car by paying half the cost as a deposit
and borrowing the balance from a bank
at overdraft-rates, instead of paying three-
parts of the cost to a hire-purchase firm.
Far too many millions are being wasted
on drink, horses and hire-purchase
schemes. It should be possible to divert
another £ 100-million a year to the savings-
banks. Lectures should be given to school-
children pointing out the advantages of
saving people who have been
encouraged to save when young are
usually thrifty all their lives.
A physical disability has prevented me
earning more than the basic wage, yet I
live fairly well, enjoy life and manage
to add to my savings each year.—K. Me.
(N.S.W.i
China
“Mugga Way” (B. 8/8/’56) says that
Dr. Chen Tai Chu “has supplied some
facts [on China] which deserve considera-
tion,” but he does not quote those facts.
Instead, he gives us Dr. Chen’s deduc-
tions and opinions, which may be biased
by wishful-thinking.
We in Australia cannot afford wishful-
thinking on Asian matters, and particu-
larly in regard to China. All reports
recently published here agree sub-
stantially on the sound job being done
by the present'Chinese Government, and
several have said that the poorer classes
are better fed than for many years past
—an important point to remember.
I have not read anything offering the
faintest gleam of hope that f any “resist-
ance” will develop which China’s present
rulers will not be able to handle quite
effectively ; and apparently eyen. a free
election, if held at any time in the fore-
seeable future, would return the Com-
munist regime without much change in
policy or personnel.
As to corruption, the Chinese are used
to that and don’t mind it any more than
we do here. A return to Chiang Kai-
shek would not rid China of that blight.
However little we like Communism, we
should realise that it is firmly in the
saddle in China, and likely to remain so
for generations.
It has been obvious for a long time
that, in Chiang Kai-shek, the U.S.A.
backed the wrong horse, and the sooner
a face-saving formula for acknowledging
that fact is found and adopted the better,
Formosa must, in the end, be integrated
with mainland China. China might con-
ceivably be content to wait for the plum
to drop, if it could be assured that, while
waiting, Formosa would not remain
enemy territory. Conversely, America
would have little interest in Formosa if
it had no* reason to fear aggression from
China, and if its [America’s] obligations
to Chiang and his refugees could be
composed.
If I know anything about those
14,000,000 overseas Chinese, their fealty,
if not to the several countries of their
“Move inside —riding on the platform's prohibited!"
adoption, is to China rather than to the
Chinese Government of the day. Whether
or not that is correct, however, recogni-
tion by Australia of the present Govern-
ment as what in fact it is would not
necessarily increase the risk from a
Chinese fifth-column here. It might even
mitigate it. In any case, the really
dangerous fifth-column in Australia is
mostly Australian-born.
We Australians have no quarrel with
the Chinese; for the most part we like
and respect them. The kind of Govern-
ment they -choose to endure is no con-
cern of ours, so long as it minds its own
business —as it may yet be induced to do.
For our own sake, let us dissociate our-
selves from futile pinpricking and throw
what diplomatic weight we may have into
the job of keeping the Pacific peaceful.
—Jas. Macansh (Q.).
Planes and Trains
“Transporticus” (B. 29/8/’56) quotes
the civil-aviation vote of £5-million as “a
direct subsidy of more than £5 per
passenger” to airways which, therefore,
compete unfairly with the railways. That
viewpoint is new, particularly to Vic-
torians, who expect to subsidise local
railways to the tune of £3 per head of
population this financial year, and who
receive less than £1 per head of popula-
tion as Victoria’s share of the civil-
aviation vote.
In terms of value for money, the c.-a.
vote is well justified. For £lOO,OOO per
week the Department of Civil Aviation
maintains airfields and aeradio-stations
throughout Australasia, maintains all
buildings on thesfc properties, supplies
navigational aids such as radio-beacons
to overseas as well as local aircraft,
controls all flying-operations, supplies and
maintains ( fire - fighting equipment,
enforces air-safety regulations and so on
down to testing pilots for licences.
D.C.A. collects substantial revenue,
mainly from the airways, and it might
be claimed that busy fields such as
Mascot, Essendon and Eagle Farm
operate, if not at a profit, at least at no
cost to the taxpayer.
“Transporticus” might have better
described the D.C.A. grant as a contri-
bution towards development and settle-
ment of the outback, maintenance of
potential defence-installations, reasonable
charges to the P.M.G. for air-freighted
mail, and the development of New
Guinea (I can find no evidence that any
other department pays D.C.A. for its
work there).
The airways themselves are a good
example of efficiency, safety and service
at a reasonable cost. No one can belittle
their progress.
When “T.” compares rail with air, he
could also compare equipment. In the
past decade, the airways have progressed
from converted DC3 “biscuit-bombers”
to DC4’s, DC6’s, Convairs, DC6b’s and
Viscounts. In the same period the rail-
ways erected streamlining plates on a few
black monsters, added a handful of luxury
carriages whose windows are never
opened for fear of soiling the “luxury,”
and claim to offer the mass of travellers
comparable travelling conditions. Several
pressurised aircraft were operating when
Victoria had only one air-conditioned
train.
In the buying of equipment, com-
parison is equally unfavorable. The rail-
ways are expected to modernise at last
at the peak of inflation —Victoria has
made a start with the diesel-electrics on
h.-p. The airways buy early and save
money. In the prompt purchase of
Convairs, the substantial rise in costs
between the times of contract-signing and
delivery of aircraft was saved. Early
purchase of Viscounts again saved money.
It is nonsense to suggest that we
express “hypocritical indignation” over
the state of the railways. There is nothing
hypocritical in resenting the bad manage-
ment which forces us to pay high charges,
directly and indirectly, for travelling
behind dirty and odious steam-engines
which dirty themselves, their articulated
carriages, their passengers’ clothes and
persons and everything else within range.
—J. G. M. (Vic.).
Cooktown
“Nedrium’s” article on Cape York
Peninsula (B. 29/8/’56) is very much to
the point, and I agree wholeheartedly
with his general contentions. My only
disagreement is \vith his assertion that
Cooktown once had a population of
11,000.
I spent some time there in 1932, most
of it at the court-house reading old
reports. So far as I could ascertain, the
biggest population the town ever boasted
was 3500. There were never more than
three banks, though pubs were possibly
more numerous than in any other town in
North Queensland. I remember getting
the old Licensing Bench registers and
noting with interest that, in April, 1874,
the court sat daily, approved over 90 for
Cooktown and district and deferred con-
sideration of some 30 others.
If the Cooktown district is ever to be
populated, two things are essential:
access by rail or bitumen road with
Cairns and an up-to-date sugarmill. I
saw a lot of the Endeavour River
country, Boiling Springs, the Annan, and
went as far up as the Mclvor, and in
the aggregate there is sufficient country
suitable for cane to support a moderate-
sized mill.
The rainfall seems pretty dependable,
being round 75in. a year. I was there in
January and found the climate far less
trying than at either Cairns or Innisfail.
On my return to Brisbane I discussed the
climate with General Spender Browne,
who knew Cooktown intimately, and
reckoned it had the best climate in
Queensland.
If the Queensland Government is really
in earnest about settling the Peninsula,
the construction of one sugarmill at
Cooktown would do it for all time. Once
it was established the growers would
probably take it over, as they did other
mills in the north. In fact, the prime
cost of the mill could be recouped by
the sale of assigned land if the price ot
this in other parts of the North is any
criterion. Increased settlement would
give an impetus to road-building between
the Daintree and Cooktown and should
also help to improve the boat-service. - *
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).


Apathy
The most disturbing factor in the
present period of huge deficits is the
apathy that has drugged Governments,
Federal and State. Nothing is being done
to reclaim losses incurred by increased
charges for public services, and the
increased postal-charges and telephone-
rates can only add to the inexplicable
deficit of the P.M.G.’s Department.
When there was an immediate slump
in the number of travellers following the
increased transport charges in N.S.W.
Premier Cahill shrugged it off with
“They’ll be back next week.” Two
months have passed and they’re not back
yet.
In the course of my business I travel by
train, tram, bus and ferry, and no
juggling of figures can conceal the serious
situation.
Before the rises I could rarely obtain a
seat in any of these vehicles; now I
have my choice in long rows of empty
seats.
Last Saturday, with a weekend house-
party, I reclined on the lawrFof a home in
Turramurra, swapping yarns and watch-
ing the trains go by. It was the hour
when, normally, people would be teeming
into the city for the various sports —an
hour when, in the past, the trains were
crowded. But on this Saturday—a warm
early spring day—you couldn’t miss the
emptiness of the trains.
I asked my host if this same deteriora-
tion applied on weekdays. He told me
it did. He said that friends of his who
used to go into the city three or four
times a week now travel once.
There will be a similar result from the
increased letter-rates, which will hit only
the section of the community which can’t
afford not to use the mails —the business
houses. Maisie will not now send that
little bit of gossip by letter to Daisy ; she
will save it up until she tells it to her in
person, and you may imagine the weight
all the Maisies are going to take off the
shoulders of the downtrodden postmen.
The obvious way out of the morass is
the one used by business throughout the
ages. When a firm is losing ground it
doesn’t increase prices ; it cuts them and
so encourages the customers to come back
and spend more. — Gullabong (N.S.W.).
•
Toll Roads
There’s an article in the latest
“Engineer” to hand headed “Trouble for
Toll-roads,” and it could be read with
profit by a great number of Australians,
particularly those who have been advo-
cating that £551,000,000-road between
Melbourne and Brisbane.
After referring to the three distinct
phases in the history of the toll-roads —
the development of the autonomous
“authority” operating on a straight busi-
ness basis, the boom of the immediate
post-war period, and now what it
describes as the disillusionment phase—
the article goes on to give reasons. Road-
usage has gone off in two directions not
anticipated by the engineers.
First, short rather than long trips pre-
dominate, and, second, more and more
.trucks are relying on the free roads and
less on the turnpikes.
These developments are raising serious
questions about the ability of certain
major toll-facilities to continue to meet
their obligations to the bondholders.
One example given is the road of West
Virginia, which was built at a cost of
about £A65,000,000 for its 90-mile, two-
lane length, or £A722,000 per mile, for
an estimated traffic of 2600 commercial
vehicles a day. With unde* 1000 using
it, it’s an understatement to say that the
bonds are being regarded with serious
misgivings by the market.
There is a possibility the State may
lend a helping hand financially to pre-
vent this venture from becoming bank-
rupt, but it is clear, the article suggests,
that the days of the long-distance toll-
road are over, and that free roads built
with public funds will take their place. —
Transporticus (Singapore). .
Money for Homes
Home-hungry people throughout the
Commonwealth will find little satisfaction
in the Federal Budget.
With plenty of people anxious to sell
their homes, and many more in desperate
need of any sort of dwelling—old or
new —there’s nothing to raise hope for
the money so.urgently needed for loan-
purposes.
The Federal Government has forced
upon the States a new Commonwealth-
States Housing Agreement by which a
proportion of the funds to be made
available each year is dedicated to loan-
channels for private borrowers. Two
things are very wrong about this
agreement.
In the first place, the funds made avail-
able to the States for housing purposes
are completely inadequate, even for use
by the State instrumentalities. Therefore,
restriction of the amount of money made
available for use by the Governments
must impose a greater strain than ever
upon State housing-resources. In the
second place, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment should recognise that, since
private investors have found more lucra-
tive fields in which to invest their funds,
housing has become a Government
matter. Practical rather than token
assistance is needed.
There is a very real danger that a
whole generation of Australians will grow
up under sub-standard living-conditions
unless some practical steps are soon taken
to assist young people and family men
who cannot borrow the necessary money
to build their homes.
Since attractive industrial, commercial
and finance investments have drawn off
almost all the money that formerly went
into real estate, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment might well consider imposing a
tax upon dividends, the whole proceeds
to go to a fund to provide money for
home-purchase.
Once a fund was built up it would
become self-supporting, since the proceeds
would rotate at regular intervals and
would provide for the needs of an ever-
increasing number of borrowers.
Such a plan would require a co-related
incentive to people to save a deposit.
Under today’s conditions many people
are spending their money on cars and in
other ways because they can see no hope
of securing a loan for home-building or
home-purchase.
Returned servicemen are reasonably
well catered for, except that, because of
the statutory delay in making loans avail-
able after approval is given, borrowers
are being forced into the hands of the
loan-sharks and milked of interest at flat-
rates of up to 15 per cent.
The real victims, however, are the
young folk who were children during
World War II and who have no schemes
other than a stony-broke co-operative
building-society system available to them.
For these people the situation is practically
hopeless.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Decimal Currency
Almost 20 years have passed since a
royal commission on Australia’s
monetary system recommended that
decimal currency should be adopted, but
we are still muddling along with the
antiquated £ s. d.
There are three reasons for the reluct-
ance to change over:
A wish to retain uniformity with
British currency.
Fear of the cost and difficulties of the
transition period.
Conservatism and procrastination.
As to the first point, Canada and
Malaya within the Commonwealth, and
other countries outside it, have always
been able to reconcile their dollars with
the English pound by fiscal arrangement
with the U.K.
“The party? Oh , that Would be finishing-up about now, Mum”
The second obstacle, though formid-
able, is temporary. If handled by a
special commission on a sound basis,
adjustments could be made step by step
and at little more cost in machinery, etc.,
than is normally incurred by deprecia-
tion. The human factor—accustoming
ourselves to new standards and values—
should hold no more difficulties for us
than many other changes in laws and
procedures. India, with a population 36
times greater than ours, will adopt
“ W hat does this Colonel Nasser peanut look like, Harry ?”
decimal coinage next year by dividing
the rupee into 100 units.
As for the third consideration, public
opinion is usually the main force in
removing official inertia. A common
complaint nowadays is the futility of
pennies and halfpennies. Our coinage
and weights-and-measures are a source
of irritation to emigrants and tourists.
Most people are convinced that calcu-
lating in tens is infinitely more conveni-
ent and less time-wasting than juggling
with odd multiples and fractions.
These facts, combined with the advice
of the royal commission of 1937, should
be enough to move our legislators
economists to tackle the decimal-currency
problem in a realistic and practical
manner. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
A Labor Paper
. Some Sydney trade-unionists are
asking why Labor should not have its
own daily newspaper to expound its
policy and put its points of view to the
public.
The question partly answers itself.
Labor has launched its dailies, and they
have foundered because the union bosses
and politicians who have comprised the
boards of management have regarded
them primarily as propaganda-organs.
Those who are conventionally
described as “the workers” are the
majority of the population, with
their support a daily newspaper would
be # a sound financial proposition. The
argument that capitalist traders would
not support a Labor paper with advertis-
ing is nonsense. Show them a good
proposition and they will buy space, as
they will buy anything else which
promises value for the money. That
applies, too, in the case of the workers —
they will not buy an indifferent article
when a superior one is available at the
same price.
The history of the “Daily Herald” in
Britain could be studied with advantage
by Labor in Australia. Under the direc-
tion of trade-unions and political leaders
that newspaper floundered along for
some time at heavy loss. Placed in com-
petent hands free from doctrinaire v
propagandists and self-seekers the “Daily
Herald” soon rose to the top-circulation
class, and, consequently, became of real
value as the voice of Labor’s political
and industrial policy.
When Australian Labor recognises
that a newspaper must have competent
and experienced direction, and not be
firstly a propagandist-organ, then Sydney
might have a successful Labor daily
newspaper. —G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Property Valuations
According to Sydney “Sun-Herald,”, the
N. S. Wales Valuer-General recently
said in connection with the jacking-up of
valuations, “The V.-G. can’t win. If a
man is selling property he considers our
valuations too low; if he is buying
property our figure is absurdly high.”
That the “v.g.” of property with vacant
possession is lower generally than sale-
value most people lf municipal
rates or water- and sewerage-rates are
excessive in such cases it is not the Valuer-
General who is at fault, but the board or
council concerned. An entirely different
situation may be seen where old tenanted
premises with pegged rents are concerned.
Here the “v.g.” is almost invariably
much in excess of sale-value. I recently
sold 12 cottages in a very progressive
Sydney area to the occupying tenants.
The cottages were of brick, old but in
fair repair. Deposits were lo'y and pay-
ments, at the very low interest-rate of
5 per cent., were spread over a long term.
Yet in no case did I get within cooee of
the current “v.g.” On the other hand,
the tenants'paid me rather more for then-
homes than I could have obtained on the
open market.
Since I sold these cottages four have
become affected by a council resumption-
scheme, and it occurs to me fhat the new
owners will have every right to feel
aggrieved if they are not compensated at
a much higher rate than the official valua-
tions. Sounds topsy-turvy, but there it is.
Justice to landlords —if the point is
worth making in the State of N.S.W. —
should ensure that valuations on old
premises with pegged renjs are based on
net rents and tenanted sale-value.
In the event of his property being
resumed a landlord is no doubt glad of
a high “v.g.,” but this is a rare happening,
and, in general, valuations based on
actual, rather than supposititious, circum-
stances are desirable. Woorarra
(N.S.W.).


See GRAZCOS FARMERS’ BOY DISPRAY AT
MELBOURNE ROYAR SHOW
See WESTERN MACHINERY CO.’S FARMERS’ BOY
DISPRAY AT PERTH ROYAR SHOW
rm
m
‘ ~
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISU.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 116 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus. : Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD-
-32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. 1^396-111180.^^
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major”
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WOBRV. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
AGRICULTURAL REPORT
/'OFFICIAL reports by Govern-
” ment departments are, of
course, always some months
behind current events when pub-
lished, and are notoriously lack-
ing in color. The Report for 1955
of the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture in no way differs
' from its fellows in these respects,
but, for all that, there is fascinat-
ing stuff in its pages if you mine
for it.
ft presents, too, an approximate
picture of what has been going
on in the primary industries of
the State over a given period ;
necessarily skeletal, but a massive
skeleton, the several members of
which need only a little imagina-
tion and special knowledge on
the part of the reader to come
alive as limbs of important
industries; and that—since we
are all involved in the growth
or retardation of primary in-
dustry—is the special merit of
such reports.
Coming hard on the heels of
both Federal and State Budgets,
and some curious examples of
spending and savings by both
sets of rulers, the report has an
added interest.
Net expenditure by the depart-
ment from Consolidated Revenue
Fund amounted to £1,355,139,
but this figure does not include
£718,356 on tick - eradication
(£468,356 provided by the Stale
and £250,000 contributed by the
Commonwealth), the administra-
tion of the Government grain-
elevators, £285,916 gross
(revenue £924,923), or the
Botanic Gardens, Domain, and
Centennial Park, £119,750 gross
(receipts £9229).
Certain revenues collected by
the department, amounting to
£494,357, have been deducted
from the gross expenditure to
arrive at the net £1,355,139. In
addition, expenditure from
Loan Funds was £167,626.
The Agricultural Extension
Grant of £50,000 a year from
the Commonwealth, which/began
in 1952, was continued:
Many types of projects, covering
pasture-establishment and -manage-
ment ; pasture-seed production ; irriga-
tion; potato-, peanut-, rice- and pea-
growing; feeding of pigs; egg-pro-
duction ; horticulture; weed-control;
films, photography and radio in
extension-service; special - publica-
tions ; provision of field-assistants, and
transport; and regional publicity-
officers to assist field-officers’ use of
mass and group media, were in
operation this year.
One of the projects most valuable
to extension-service has been that con-
cerned with provision of extension-
aid equipment at field-offices. These
aids include cameras, public-address
systems, cine-film projectors, film-
strip- and slide-projectors, desk slide-
viewers, and tape-recorders.
The publicity-officers stationed at
headquarters of agricultural regions
have organised extension publicity pro-
grammes through radio-stations and
country press, with striking effects on
the tempo of field-officers’ extension-
service. An example of this from
one Agricultural Region is that dur-
ing the last 12 months 399 talks by
Department of Agriculture officers
were broadcast over radio-stations in
the Region, and regular copy was
supplied to 39 papers, many of which
devoted a weekly column to regional
agricultural news and advice.
Another aspect of the same
trend, from a somewhat different
point of view, was expressed by
N.S.W. grazier and writer E. O.
Schlunke, who wrote that
“Science now assaults the grazier
in every mail.” And, apparently,
it also greets him over the air
and in the papers.
It is a general trend, and no
doubt a good one. The N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture has a
very active publicity-department,
which, apart from local mani-
festations . already mentioned,
and publications such as the
monthly “Agricultural Gazette”
and booklets written by experts
on their specialities, turns out a
weekly news-sheet which must
be a great boon to editors of
country newspapers short of
copy. Stereos of pictures may
be borrowed free.
It is easy enough to deprecate
this sort of thing, but the cumu-
lative effect is impressive—one
has only to glance over a file of
country and rural papers to see
how thorough is the blanket ol
information thrown down by the
department over the State, week
after week.
But there is, perhaps, a danger
of exhaustion of interest through
excess. A flood of information
from a central authority can
stifle local experiment. Then,
too, the present is increasingly
the day of the publicist and the
economist.
But the solid basis of the
Department oh Agriculture in
New South Wales and every
other State is the number of
trained scientists who can
provide the information for the
specialists in “mass and group
media” to pour out; and, perhaps
even more important, the
number of such men who are
available for research and for
consultation by harassed farmers
and graziers with particular and
urgent problems.
Here the picture is not parti-
cularly bright. The Department
of Agriculture headquarters at
Farrer-place, Sydney, is a friendly
quarter. Anyone can go there
and, without much trouble, get
an interview with some know-
ledgeable bloke who will make a
real effort to sort out the parti-
cular problem.
In the country, highly-skilled
experts in this, that and the
other give good advice and
exhibit a personal interest that
deserves full praise, in most
cases. But it’s no secret that
trained agricultural scientists,
veterinarians and the rest are
hard to get; no great numbeis
of them are being turned out by
the universities, and private
The question is, are we any happier in this machine-age? ”
industry offers better pay than
Government service.
There’s an understandable
drift. More understandable,
perhaps, when it’s considered
that it is harder to graduate in
Veterinary Science than in
Medicine, and that newly-
graduated medicos, dentists and
the like make twice the money
earned by experienced
veterinarians.
It is, perhaps, unfair to give
particular emphasis to one small
section of a comprehensive
report. But, since it illustrates a
tendency, it seems worth noting.
The work done by all State Agri-
cultural Departments is obviously
important. Any expansion con-
templated should be concen-
trated on the professional
services. And if economies are
necessary, this vital core should
be the last to be pruned.
The report gives details of
work done in the tick-eradica-
tion campaign, country killing,
wheat-handling, weed - control,
quarantine, meat-inspection and
the like. One of the largest sub-
sections deals with “Pastures”—
as is appropriate. There has
been a rapid increase in the area
of sown pastures. Also con-
siderable research, in colleges
and in the field, and in co-
operation with C.5.1.R.0. and
local organisations.
The Agricultural Research
Institute at Wagga was opened
during the year by the Minister,
Mr. Graham, adding another to
the chain of educational and
research establishments run by
the department; additions to the
number would be welcome.
Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege is perhaps the best known
of these, and, over the years, it
has done a great deal, not only
in the education of future agri-
cultural-scientists but in the less
spectacular turning-out of young
men qualified to hold down key
jobs on the land and in associ-
ated industries.
We could do with more
Hawkesburys and more experi-
ment-stations. There is a case
for turning over the administra-
tion of agricultural high-schools
to the Department of Agricul-
ture.
Certainly, it is the day of the
publicist and the economist, and
the State Division of Marketing
and Agricultural Economics no
doubt undertakes some very
interesting work, but some of
the publications produced by
this division contain details of
projects which seem to be of
somewhat academic interest.
It may be argued that
academic research is one of the
functions of such a body, but
the question may well be asked
whether this type of study might
not be done better, or more
cheaply, by some other
organisation: the Common-
wealth Bureau, for instance.
Already there seems to be some
overlapping.
T. C.
Quiet Bees
“B-herd”: Arthur Ezzy,
queen-breeder of Mt. Emlyn,
near Millmerran (Q.), is insulted
if the caller totes a veil in his
bee-yard.
I understand he hasn’t pulled
one over his' hat since he dropped
a box of bush-blacks off his
spring-cart 20-odd years back
and, from then on, went in for
the quietest bee he could locate.
He found it in the creamy grey
and beautiful Caucasians, and
after experimenting half-
a-dozen of them I’m for ’em
too!
Peculiarly, the tendency to
sting has never been a deciding
factor among the bee-herds of
this country. A visit to a score
of stands will back that up.
Reason for this, I believe, is that
apiarists take the sting as part of
the life.
Among old-timers the story
goes that if a bee can’t lift you
she can’t gather much honey.
The Caucasian proves both
wrong.
For the farmer, or more
particularly the suburbanite,
who sees ilo reason why he
shouldn’t produce his own honey,
this quiet bee is a boon. On my
limited observation of them, they
seem to produce more honey
on less brood than do the
Italians or hybrids. Also, they
cap their combs much whiter,
which, for comb-honey produc-
tion, is no small factor.
As for their stinging-potential
—for the benefit of a visiting
bee-herd I approached a hive,
kicked it a couple of times,
lifted the lid, took out a frame
or two, replaced them and the
lid. and not a bee looked for
fight.
“How’s that for a bee?” I
asked.
“I don’t believe,” he said,
“that the so-and-sos have got a
sting.”
For the 5 beginner in bees,
that’s not a bad recommendation.
Fruit-spoilers
“Myall”: Whether you’re a
backyarder or an orchardist, if
you grow the diet they fancy
codling-moth and fruit-fly are
bound to give you a lot of
trouble lytless you take the
proper precautions.
The codling-moth usually con-
fines its activities to the apple,
but at times quinces and pears
are also attacked. This pest can
be controlled by spraying with
25 per cent. D.D.T. at the
strength of 250 to 1, or 4 table-
spoonfuls to 3gals. water, just
as the petals fall. Repeated
sprayings should be made every
three weeks until the crop is
gathered.
The fruit-fly is much more
difficult to deal with, and it
The marking and tail-
ing of lambs and the
marking of calves
takes place at a critical
period of their lives
when set-back can
have serious conse-
quences. All users
agree that the Elas-
trator Rubber Ring
method oi marking
and tailing practically
eliminates set - back.
The prevention of this
evil gives the young
beasts the chance to
develop that prime
condition which is the
objective of every
stock owner and
breeder.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. *l. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches Ln all States Agencies in all Country Centres
For a lifetime of savings and lifetime
beauty build your home with
HARDlftlibiolite
(Reg’d. Trade Mark)
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS
mm
mm
Inside and outside your “Fibrolite”
home represents today’s best building
value. You save on building costs,
maintenance and insurance premiums.
“Fibrolite” homes are quicker and
easier to build; their lasting value
makes “Fibrolite” the perfect building
material for budget builders. It is fire
retardant and white ant and borer
proof resists dampness too! Modem
day decorator colours look their very
best on “Fibrolite”. For interior walls
and ceilings you get beautiful unbroken
colour by covering joints with new
“Anaglypta” Cover Strip.
A*J.N3
JD.OI KJO.EC
A«1 *9.C»
I OBfl
DM4HIO 1
ra nr
J9.6*9JW
? 035
*iva
*n>n - NJHOiiv
Take a step nearer that
“Dream Home” on > your
own land. Write today
for your FREE and
POST FREE copy of
the “Fibrolite” home
plans booklet.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To JAMES HARDIE & Coy. Pty, Ltd.,
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send, FREE and POST FREE your illustrated
booklet containing full information and designs of modern
“Fibrolite” Homes.
NAME ........ ~—I—I
ADDRESS —1
Please cross square if you would like our representative to
call and advise on your home building problems.
FH23/56/ B
Sole Manufacturers;
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Cnr. York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King St.
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
attacks a much wider range of
fruit. Stone-fruit, particularly
peaches, nectarines and apricots,
are the principal 'ones attacked,
but tomatoes, guavas, citrus-
fruits of all kinds, pawpaws,
mangoes, persimmons, grapes,
and even the very hot capsicums
are attacked.
The fly stings the fruit,
deposits its eggs just under the
skin, and in a few days these
hatch out. The 'maggots soon
turn the fruit into a putrid mass,
and then drop to the ground,
where they pupate in the soil just
below the surface. The attack
may take place any time after
the fruit is half-grown.
Regular spraying with 25 per
cent. D.D.T. at the strength of
125 to 1, or 8 tablespoonfuls to
3gals. water, is usually effective
in orchards. For home-garden
use, the following is recom-
mended: To lgal. water, add
£lb. sugar and stir until dissolved,
then add \ fl. oz. of nicotine-
sulphate and \ fl. oz. of D.D.T.
20 per cent, emulsion, mixing
them thoroughly together.
Use immediately, flicking
about j pint of the mixture on
the foliage in the shaded .portions
of each tree with a whitewash
or other brush. This distributes
the liquid in beads, and the fly
feeds on them, with fatal results.
This operation should be
repeated every five or six days,
from the time the fruit is about
half-grown until alT'the fruit is
harvested. Rain will wash the
mixture off, so respray as soon
as the weather fines-up. Over
90 per cent, of clean fruit has
been gathered' after use of this
method.
Burn or boil all fruit that is
affected with the fly, otherwise
the life-cycle of the insect will
be continued.
Bearded Grain
“Dooen”: Indian plant-
breeders—unlike Australians—
aim for bearded-wheat varieties.
Reasons: awns deter birds and
small animals, which are greater
pests in Indian wheatfields than
here; and as little Indian grain
is • harvested mechanically, the
awns are not such a disadvantage
in this respect.
Whereas many Australian
wheat-varieties are derived from
Indian ancestors hence the
names Rajah, Ranee, Nizam,
Ghurka—only one Australian
variety, Ridley, is grown in
India. Reason: the greatly
different wheatgrowing environ-
ments in the two countries. In
comparatively recent years, the
Indian Pusa 4 has been used to
try to improve the quality of
our grain.
The N.S.W. variety,' Gabo,
which was once resistant to
“rusfi’-disease, is being used in
New Zealand, and the Canadian
White Fife is a parent of Vic-
toria’s Diadem, but in general
there is comparatively little
interchange of wheat-varieties
between countries.
Buttercup
“Billjim”: Buttercup is one of
the most persistent of pasture-
weeds, but can be controlled
effectively by using the potas-
sium-salt of M.C.P., which won’t
damage clovers. Spring is the
best time to spray, although
good results have resulted from
autumn treatment followed by
a spring application. Use lib. of
acid-equivalent per acre in 30
to 40gals. of water. As a long-
term measure, pasture-improve-
ment brought about by better
drainage, good grazing-managg-
ment, and reseeding to better
species will prevent buttercup
from developing in the land.
S.A. Soils
“B.B.”: A State-wide survey
by agronomist N. S. Tiver has
revealed that all S.A. soils are
deficient in native phosphorus
except the volcanic soils, and in
these a deficiency has been
induced by heavy cropping.
All virgin soils in the higher-
*rainfall areas are deficient in
nitrogen except the water-table
rendzinas and fen soils, in which
the nitrogen status has been im-
proved by the planting of sub.-
clover.
The more fertile soils of the
main wheat-areas show nitrogen-
deficiency as the result of ex-
haustion by frequent cropping.
The proper use of legumes, such
as the medics and sub.-clover,
during the pasture phase of the
rotation helps to maintain
fertility.
On the heathland soils of the
south-eastern districts copper-
and zinc-deficiencies are linked,
whereas on the alkaline soils,
grey soils and coastal sands, zinc
and manganese, or a combination
of copper, zinc and manganese,
often occur together.
To meet these fairly wide-
spread soil-deficiencies, stahdard
mixtures of trace-elements and
Superphosphate are prepared by
the fertiliser-companies.
Tiver’s studies showed that
sub.-clover was particularly
sensitive to an absence of both
copper and zinc, while lucerne
did not respond to zinc. Native
grasses and some introduced
grasses which have appeared
naturally were not responsive to
applications of trace-elements.
Molybdenum-deficiencies are
mainly confined to the Adelaide
hills, Kangaroo Island and
Eyre’s Peninsula. Cobalt, not
recognised as an essential
element for plant-growth, is
absent from most soils in the
State, particularly in the south-
east, Peninsula districts, southern
hills, and Kangaroo Island.
Lime has not been found
necessary for general agricultural
use in S.A., almost the entire
production of 1000 tons being
used by market- and home-
gardeners. /Vny lack in calcium
is supplied by super. Then there
is the economic aspect. Exten-
sive trials at the Kybybolite
Research Station have not
demonstrated any benefit from
liming improved-pastures, the
main effect of lime being to in-
crease the grass-components of
the pasture and suppress the
clover. %
Young Trees
“Sundowner”: If you intend
raising home-grown seedlings
for farm afforestation some care-
ful preparations are necessary.
In readying the ground don’t
add lime for the cone-bearing
species. Area necessary cari be
calculated as follows:
If the trees are to be lifted as
one-year-olds, density of sowing
should be such that one square-
yard of bed would yield 600
trees; if they are, to stay for
two years in the bed the same
area should hold only 150 plants.
To find germinative capacity
of the seed, put a counted
number of seeds on blotting-
paper in a shallow dish kept
continuously damp, but not too
wet, and in a warm place. The
number that have sprouted |n
four weeks compared with the
number put on test will give a
guide to the density at which the
seed should be sown.
Farm Hints
“Mooney Mooney”: Dehorn
every heifer-calf at birth. Cost
of doing 50 animals with a
caustic-potash pencil is quite
“By golly, that’s clever. I thought you had to have a
machine for that sort of thing.”
small. In this way you eliminate
a lot of udder trouble later on.
“H.”: When selecting potato
sets, make sure they are free
from “blisters” or galls: these
may contain eel-worms in
cystic form.
“C.A.A.”: A common condi-
tion of early-hatched cockerels
is a form of rickets, due usually
to vitamin-D deficiency, Supply
the missing vitamin in a bran-
pollard mash, using some of the
pollard as a spreader if the
vitamin is in powder-form, bran
if an oil-emulsion type is used.
The powder-form is recom-
mended for crushed - grain
rations, with portion of the
grain, finely crushed, mixed with
meatmeal and milk-powder as
the spreader. An advantage of
the powder-form is that it can
be held in mash for several
weeks. Mash containing oil-
emulsion must be used within
a fortnight. But, in any case,
mash shouldn’t be kept' very
long.
“Hortus”: Don’t chaff
meadow-grass before it is ensiled.
Too many cut ends bleed, and
much valuable liquid is lost.
Ensile grass as it is mown.
For sore teats and
udders, apply a mixture of 1
drachm zinc-oxide and loz.
vaseline.
“Jay”: To protect tobacco-
seed from seed-harvesting ants,
cover beds with medium-grade
river-sand to a depth of |in.
Approx, li kerosene-tins of sand
to 100 sq.-ft. of seed-bed.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/9/’56)
General rains-should occur in a large part of Queens-
land during October, often associated with storms, although
the north-west may be mainly dry. Severe wind and hail-
storms may occur during October and November.
N.S.W. should get moderate general rains during
October, although the central coast and central tablelands
may have 'only light-to-moderate, patchy rains. Rainfall
should be above average in the Riverina and south-west.
Moderate follow-on rains are likely in November.
General rains should continue in Victoria during
October, although only moderate in tlje western division.
Fairly heavy storm-rains may occur in the first half of
November, but then light and patchy for the balance of
the year.
Reasonably good follow-on rains are likely in the
whole of South Australia during October and November.
Light to moderate rains are indicated in the south-west
of W.A. during October, with good rains in part of the
Kimherleys. Light rain may 'occur in part of the Gascoyne
and goldfields areas, but mainly dry elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
" * .
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME, ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £ 1 /4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin’ * or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£B/6/-
mechanic. He was born to be a
mechanic. He knew. He had a
power. Understand?”
“I still don’t . . .”
“Oh, God[” The man
thumped his fist on the counter.
He looked at George with great
intensity, and George had to
blipk, for he was afraid of being
hyjpnotised.
“I’m being very patient with
you,” the man said. “But I’m
going to get it into your skull
yet.”
“You don’t have to be patient
with me,” said George, with a
touch of anger.
- “Now, don’t be offended.
Wait a minute.” He seemed to
think, then said, “I’ll take it
down’ to a lower level. I’ll tell
you about the railway-workers.”
“You’re jumpin’ all over the
damn’ place! ”
"DUT the man ignored it. “I
was sitting on the platform
waiting for my train, see, and
these New Australians were
working on the line.
“These two sad-looking Aus-
tralians were there, and one
yelled out, ‘Shovools! ’ Just like
that. And all these fellers come
back with shovels and shovelled
like mad at this gravel between
the lines. It was new gravel—
a bright, pale grey, .You know,
bright and pale at the same time,
and sort of «ew-looking.”
“New - looking,” George
echoed, with a pretence at
boredom.
“There was this kid there —
about fifteen or sixteen, and he
didn’t seem to be doing anything,
just watching, and one of these
dark-skinned New Australians
hit him soft on the chest and
grinned and said something in
his foreign language. And the
kid’d grin, and the feller’d hit
him again and grin, and the kid’d
grin. They were having a hell
of a joke. It was kind of good
to watch.
“But that’s only part of it. I
kept watching all these fellers,
and they were all wearing crazy
kinds of hats. Colorful hats.
Two blokes had straw-fiats
flattened at the sides and peaked
in front, like those hats western
heroes wear, only somehow
different. Some were wearing
handkerchiefs, red ones, blue
ones, yellow ones, around their
heads, and they were all laughing
and one joker was singing, ‘Bella
Mia’ or at least that’s what it
sounded like. They sort of
looked at each other and had a
mighty goofi time just looking.”
“Oh, yeah,” said George,
raising his eyebrows at the girl.
But the girl just ate.
“Well, one of these sad Aus-
tralians yelled out that a train
was coming in both directions.”
He laughed. “That is, two
tiffins were coming.. So all these
jokers had to get off the line.
And do you know what they did
while they waited for the trains
to go? You got any idea at
all?”
“None,” said George. “Abso-
lutely none.”
“They weighed themselyes.”
/“J.EORGE looked at the walls,
as though a moving finger
might have writ some reply
there. But there were just walls,
so he did not answer.
“You should’ve seen them
weigh themselves. / They all lined
up, and one would put a penny
in. Soon as he put that penny
in, the line would break and
they’d all peer at the scales to
see what the man weighed. They
seemed to be real interested.
It was sort of childlike. And
they were having a hell of a
time.”
“Stupid,” said George, letting
the word drop from his mouth
as saliva might drop. ,
“I’m not going to get angry.
It’s so foolish to get angry/’ the
man said. “Anyhow, I haven’t
come to the most important
part yet.”
“Let’s hear it.”
“When the trains passed, they
all got back on the line again.
And they shovelled like mad
again. The shovels were all
going at once and it made a loud,
scraping noise. Their muscles
bulged, but they didn’t sweat,
and they still seemed to be hav-
ing a real good time. But—t
but one man wasn’t working.
One of the fellers in those straw,
peaked hats was just standing
there. Know what he’d done?
He’d picked up a piece of gravel,
a little rock of gravel, and was
examining it. He was really
looking at it hard. He held it
between his thumb and finger
and saw all the veins in the pale
grey rock, all the flecks. And,
you know, that piece of gravel
was .beautiful.”
George laughed outright.
“Aw, come off it.”
“No ; I meafti it. That little
rock was so nice to look at.
The color was so pale, yet bright,
and the veins so thin and deli-
cate.”
George shook his head. But,
as his head went back and forth,
his eyes remained stationary,
watching the man in the rain-
coat. i
“You don’t understand, do
you?” said the man. “Not even
a little bit.”
“You don’t even know what
you’re talking about. An actress,
a mechanic, railway-workers;
how do you string ’em all
together?”
“Because they all belong to
my world. They all fit in. They
make me feel good inside, just
to see them. I start feeling sorry
for the people who don’t know.”
“Know? What’s all this know
business?”
The man seemed to realise, all
at once, just what he had been
saying and to whom he had
been saying it. He half-closed
one eye, staring at George, then
smiled and closed both eyes.
He sighed a deep, satisfying
sigh.
“Come on,” said George,
“answer me.”
The man stood up, took a few
coins from his pocket, and
placed them gently, almost
lovingly, on the counter.
“Well?” said George.
“Forget everything I said.
Just forget the whole thing.
Promise you’ll forget it. I
shouldn’t talk about it. It’s such
a waste.”
George tightened his fist on
the counter. “Tell me. Now.”
The man seemed to deliberate.
Then he said, “All right. It’s
simply this: you’re dead.
You’re a corpse. I can tell by
your attitude, by the way you
look. You belong to the other
world, not fnine. The other
world, of course, is that empty,
sterile place . . .”
“Get out of here. Go on.
You’re just a nut, just a”
The man smiled, shrugged
inside his coat, turned, and went
through the door, out into the
rain.
GEORGE turned to the girl.
“Did you hear what he
said?”
“I heard.”
“What a nut.”
The girl, too, stood up, came
across, placed a pound-note on
the counter.
“You meet all kinds of crazy
people,” said George, taking the
note. “Particularly in this busi-
ness.” He punched open the
cash-register.
“He’s not crazy. He’s in love.”
“In love? With that actress?
Like with Marilyn Monroe?”
“That’s absurd. That’s crazy.”
She paused, then said, very
quietly, “You. know, he’s very
sorry for you. Sad for you, in
your world.”
George slammed the note into
the cash-register and was rilling
for change, when she said, “You
keep it.”
But he detected something in
her voice. “I don’t want it.”
“I feel sorry for you, too, so
you keep the change.”
“No.”
But she turned and was quickly
out the door.
George walked,' almost ran,
around the-counter. He stood in
the doorway. The rain came
down like steel needles, and
neither she nor the man could
be seen. George looked at the
change in his hand, then flung
it suddenly out onto the road-
way. He walked back inside.
“They’re both crazy,” he said
aloud to the empty restaurant.
It was quiet in here now. He
noticed the tables along the wall.
The table-tops were marble
slabs. Like in a morgue. Pam
came into George’s eyes.
’ “What the hell did they have
to come here for!” he yelled,
and his voice rolled sombrely,
leadenly, against the tile walls.
case of fruit or something of
that nature.
One letter received from one
of the private-bag holders said:
“I enclose herewith cheque for
£l, please go to the chemist and
ask him to give you something
for my.back, it is aching some-
thing terrible. Also get me a
ticket in the lottery and send
the change in stamps.”
Some weeks later came
another letter with some other
requests, the writer adding:
“You will be pleased to know
that my back is much better.”
On one occasion I was travel-
ling in the T.P.0.-van on
Queensland’s north coast when
the stationmaster came along
and wished to place a corpse in
the van, the usual accommoda-
tion being already occupied. We
raised objections, but he. said it
would only be in the van for
two hours, so it was brought in.
To ease its depressing effect on
the staff I threw empty mailbags
over it. The undertaker nearly
swooned. He said: “That coffin
is highly polished, and your
bags with their metal ‘D’ will
scratch and spoil it. I’ll lose
my reputation.”
So we took the bags off—
and put them back as soon as
the train pulled out of the
station.
❖ ❖ ❖
A WAR Ships Sub-Section has
been set-up in the Sydney
Mail Branch, and in years to
come it will assume an import-
ant position in' the postal
organisation. A special organisa-
tion is necessary for the Navy,
because the units ‘are constantly
on the move, and the routing and
destination of correspohdence
for different ships vary from
day to day.
During the last war there
were some 500 vessels of differ-
ent types attached to the Aus-
tralian Navy, more than 100 of
them known by no more than
a prefix (NL, MDL, GPV, etc.)
and a number. The sorting and
dispatch of mail’ for tfie per-
sonnel of this great and widely-
scattered force, at the same
time observing and maintaining
secrecy, was a heavy task.
Security was the major con-
sideration, and letters were
sorted within wire cubicles. The
staff soon learned to ignore the
occasional comedian who, in
passing, made remarks about
the Zoo.
The movements of the war-
ships were notified by coded
messages, and the code was pre-
served in a different section;
the men who did the dispatch-
work never knew the source of
the re-direction or the code.
Now that the names have been
changed, it is no harm to men-
tion that shore-stations were
given an H.M.A.S. name, and
the one given to Cairns was
“Platypus.”
“Platypus” was actually a
hotel which had been taken over
by the Navy for administrative
purposes. One day the code-
message intimated that the
“Platypus” had been transferred
to Brisbane. There were visions
of the old pub floating down
from Cairns to the capital. It
turned out that there was,
indeed an H.M.A.S. Platypus
which had been at one time
used as administrative head-
quarters until jts space was too
limited for the purpose. She
was transferred to Sydney, where
she is now lying as headquarters
of 0.1. C. reserve ships. The
name of the Cairns base
been changed.
A cordial Relationship has
always existed between the
postal staff and officers and
ratings of the Australian Navy.
Rear-Admiral Eccles, . when
Flag Officer commanding
H.M.A. Fleet, expressed his
appreciation of the Sydney War
Ships Section in a personal letter
to the director. Evidence of the
appreciation of every ship in the
Australian Navy is exhibited in
the War Ships Section, in the
form of a small photograph of
each vessel, received in 'the
exchange of greetings at Christ-
mases. These miniatures are
preserved in a glass cabinet
which is draped by small
pennants, gifts from various
vessels.
Other nations’ warships which
visit Sydney also have their mail
dealt with by the War Ships
Section. One of these ..was His
Netherland Majesty’s ship
Boeroe, which was undergoing
repairs at Cockatoo Dock for a
considerable time. The ship’s
mailman was named “Joe” by
the staff because they could not
pronounce his proper name and
his signature for the mail was
indecipherable, so “Joe” it was.
Besides collecting the mail
for his ship, Joe was entrusted
with a lot of shopping for mem-
bers of the crew, and as his
knowledge of English* was
limited this greatly troubled
him. And so officers of the
Sydney War Ships Section spent
a lot of their luncheon-periods
helping to do the Boeroe
shopping.
❖ ' >?♦
T IKE other institutions, the
Post Office has to pay for
conveyance of its goods, and
the adjustment between it and
the Railways is arrived at after
a weighing made over a period
of one month every two years.
The weight of every bag of
mail delivered for railway-
transport is recorded and the
amount of payment calculated
on a mileage basis. A consign-
ment from Brisbane to Perth
would be weighed at Brisbane,
and after the , charges are
assessed the amount payable is
distributed among the various
railway-systems, which, in this
case, would consist of Queens-
land, N. S. Wales, Victoria,
South Australia, Commonwealth
and Western Australian Rail-
ways.
It involves much account-
ancy-studies and detailed work,
and both departments select men
well-grounded in the routes to
be traversed. A bag of mail
labelled from Sydney to
Warwick (Q.) could be routed by
Wallangarra one day of the
week and by Kyogle route
another day. The distances
would be vastly different, and
so would the amounts payable
to the Queensland Government.
In the international sphere
the adjustmefits are even more
complicated because of the
transit-payments made to inter-
mediary services. The general
weighing of transit-mail is made
at three-yearly intervals, and
the rate of payment is fixed by
the International Postal Union
at its periodic meetings.
At one of the conventions it
was agreed that small packages
of mail weighing 51b. and less
might be disregarded, but this
was soon altered, because one
of the signatory nations found
a ready method of taking
advantage.
If it had a bag of mail
weighing, say, 301 b., instead of
making up one mail per week
its postal people made up one
each day. Consequently, in-
stead of having only one bag
of mail they had seven small
, ones, each of which weighed less
than 51b. on which no transit
charges could be levied!


Write for TELEVISION!
We are proud to announce the publication for the first time in
Australia of a specialist course in writing for TELEVISION. *
This brilliant course by Mr. Bernard Calmus, an experienced TV
writer, will, fully train you in all aspects of TV writing and introduce you
to one of the most lucrative markets for writers.
Write for full details to:
NEW ENGLAND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS,
6 Joslin Street, Kotara, Newcastle, N.S.W.
READING
BIRD WONDERS
OF AUSTRALIA
by Alec H. Chisholm—a new edition
with much fresh material. “A happy
■wandering among the more unusual sorts
of Australian birds.” (Bulletin.) Finely
illustrated. 37/6 (post 9d.)
THIS QUIET DUST
by Helen Heney. This is the story of a
man’s attachment to a married woman
for half a lifetime, whether in Australia
or war-torn Europe, and the strange
manner in which the pattern of their
lives met their needs.
16/- (post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l
HAMMOND INNES
has written his greatest story
“The Mary Deare ”
available from all booksellers
COLLINS 15s. 6d. PUBLISHERS
the point ever made that Edmund—
if indeed he is O’Neill himself—came
out of all this mess to great success as
a playwright.
Still, for those who can accept the
Greek tragedy in modern, realistic
prose—-where it has no business to be
—this is really most beautifully done.
Sailing Days
William H. S. Jones, Master
Mariner, has made a good job of tell-
ing P. R. Stephensen about The Cape
Horn Breed (Melrose), the story of
Captain Jones’s four years’ apprentice-
ship to sail.
He signed-on in 1905, and the one
voyage on the “British Isles” lasted
most of his apprenticeship, before the
end of which he was second mate. That
he should have risen so fast is of course
some measure of his quality, but he was
also arriving at the end of sail, when
steam competition was cutting into
profits, and owners were sending
sailing-ships to sea with half the crews
required to work them comfortably.
The British Isles was an iron full-
rigged ship with three raked masts,
pretty to look at and fast wjth the
wind behind her ; she was bound from
Wales to Pisagua on the west coast of
South America with a cargo of coal.
From the first, young Jones had to take
his part putting on sail and pulling it
off up on the yardarms ; and getting
used to being wet-through with cold
water and having boils on his wrists
from the chafing of his sleeves. But
these were part of any voyage. The
first unusual incident was the coal
catching fire in the hold. They had to
haul it out and lay it on the deck until
they got down to the seat of the fire.
Having put the fire out, they had to put
the coal back again.
Then came the finest part of this
fine story, the ship’s 45-day struggle to
get round Cape Horn against contrary
.winds and mountainous seas, during
which the first mate almost precipitated
a mutiny by dark mutterings that the
ship should turn and run for it. The
captain confronted the mate just in time
and humiliated him before the seamen.
The ship retired to Staten Island, and
eventually rounded the Cape 52 days
after first passing it, at which time: —
Of the twenty seamen who had
signed-on for the voyage, three had
been lost overboard, three were laid
up with injuries due to accidents on
deck, six were incapacitated by
severe frostbite, and two were partly
incapacitated by frostbite.
That is, they sailed up the coast of
South America with no more than
eight seamen to work a full-rigged ship.
It was at this point that Captain
Barker cut off the gangrened leg of
Jerry the Greek with the cook’s knife
and meat-saw, an operation described
with some particularity all the way to
the point where Gronberg, the car-
penter, threw the leg overboard.
If one is inclined to admire Captain
Barker during the voyage, the Account
of his doings in port must inspire some-
thing like veneration. The British
Isles arrived in Pisagua covered in
rust, its sails blown-out and roughly
patched, and its foremast cracked. The
owners, dreading the cost of repairs,
wanted to sell it, but Captain Barker
cabled back that he could save money
by lifting the mast out himself, so that
the blacksmiths could repair it on the
ship instead of taking it ashore.
Accordingly the ship was sailed to
Callao ; and Captain Jones and Mr.
Stephensen give a beautifully detailed
account of how a few men of the crew,
under Captain Barker’s supervision,
lifted out the mast, which was 130 feet
long and three feet in diameter at the
deck.
And there is another view of
Captain Barker’s seamanship in “sail-
ing the anchor out” at Pisagua ; the
anchor fouled, little space to man-
oeuvre among the other anchored ships;
no tugs, and nothing to work with but
sail.
The ship sailed from Callao for
Sydney with an American mate, one
of the famous “bucko mates” of the
American down-easter tradition, who
had been laid-up there after being
stabbed in his< last ship—and if he
did not have his skull split open on
the British Isles by a seaman whose
marlinspike happened to drop from
where he was working, on the upper
topsail yard, that was not the seaman’s
fault. ’
When, after various dogfights, the
ship reaches Sydney, there arp pictures
of the city as seen by men entertained
at the seaman’s mission, and of New-
castle, its harbor and girls, where the
ship loaded coal, and where a mate in
need of pocket-money would trail an
end of rope over the ship’s side, which
would be run up the river by men in
a boat and sold, sometimes back to
the captain of the ship from which it'
had been taken. . . And so to a fast
passage to Valparaiso of 34 days in
which the sailing-ship beat a steamer
that had left Newcastle at the same
time.
The ship returned to Newcastle and
sailed to several other ports, working
as a tramp, before ending this long
voyage in England, and there are
stories of how Captain Barker bought
a piano that had to have pieces cut off
it before it would go into his state-
room, and how he bought a motor-
launch in Australia and sold it in
Iquique, and went to dig for the
treasure of the Incas at Mejillones.
The book is illustrated with -many
magnificent photographs at sea and in
harbor, but who took the splendid
picture, for instance, captioned “British
Isles off Cape Horn 1905 ; topsails
blown out of the bolt-ropes” is not
stated in the text—one would have
thought that Captain Jones, who
mentions the diary he kept as appren-
tice, would have mentioned anyone’s
having a camera.
A Sargeson Story
Frank Sargeson is rightly held in
high regard as a short-story writer in
New Zealand, where he has been a
pioneer both of new forms and of a
more intimate description of con-
temporary life, but it is doubtful
whether his attempts at the long short-
story or “conte,” as in I For One
(Caxtbn Press), have yet developed
beyond the experimental.
The story of “I For One,” a first-
person novelette in the form of a diary
by a spinster, depends on a series of
coincidences —too convenient, as a
series, for plausibility.
First, in a scene briefly, told in
retrospect, Mrs. Sheppard, the spinster’s
mother, has to meet her husband’s first
and legal wife while both ladies are
bathing naked in a hot pool at Rotorua,
whereupon they splash each other with
the hot water. The comic possibilities
of this scene are, alas, not realised.
Then the spinster, Katherine Sheppard,
walking up a hill to a museum, has to
meet, of all the people in the city, her
long-lost half-sister and niece, descend-
ants of the first Mrs. Sheppard, on
holiday from the country town where
they live. And, again of all the people
in the city, it has to be the half-sister
who chances to meet Katherine’s
American lover in his hotel and to
run off with him.
In the old masters, Dickens or
Victor Hugo, one accepts, of course,
coincidences just as improbable. But
never, even then, without a raising of
the eyebrow; and in Frank Sargeson’s
latterday realism they seem altogether
out of place.
Moreover, except that these tangled
events make, as a whole, the ironical
comment that while Miss Sheppard is
hesitating to “marry” an already-
married American, her half-sister and
her mother have .never been troubled
with such scruples, there does not
seem much point in them: the essence
of the story is simply Miss Sheppard’s
spinsterishness. Perhaps there is meant
to be a study of the long-range influence
of the deceased Mr. Sheppard, a potent
and memorable parent, on this group
of women; but, if so, nothing is clearly
worked out. The story should either
have been developed into a full-scale
novel or cut to a sketch.
One is left, then, with the study of
Miss Sheppard as a doomed and
faintly repellent spinster, a short-story
embedded in the longer form of the
conte. This is the sort of thing Mr.
Sargeson has done before, and he
always does it well.
The Planet Venus: Patrick Moore
(Faber). Mr. Moore is a well-known
amateur observer, and secretary of the
lunar section of the British Astronomi-
cal Association. Not much really is
known of Venus. There are three
guesses as to what lies beneath its huge
mantle of gas—a hot and steamy world;
a hot, arid dustbowl, in which violent
gales blow through a choking carbon-
dioxide atmosphere; or (the latest,
“most promising” opinion, due to two
Harvard astronomers) a world of seas
and oceans, without any large land-
masses. If the middle view is right,
Venus never has and never will have
life as we know it; if either of the
others, primitive forms of life are
possible, though by no means definite.
Any thought of intelligent, civilised
“Venusians” must be kept in the
pleasant realms of myth.
“THE BULLETIN’’ CROSSWORD No. 400
Across
I—This is how the seat of the school-
boy’s trousers were worn out,
nevertheless. (15)
7 Publicity men who clog the post-
offices at the first of the month?
o (11)
8— A dove might manage this
hundred and two of its figures.
(3)
9 This is four, but why the climber?
(3)
10—Topgear to the highway, such
being the condition of the street
surface. (7)
13—How paints are laid on a bats-
man’s thought when he gets his
first run. (7)
15—Gould is back with sunburn. (3)
16 Sailor renegade is reversing an
ingredient of 10-across. (3)
17— Redback article in Germany. (3)
18— Moslem has a Chinese mile who
rules when Jolson becomes king?
(3)
19— No laird takes part in this
Handel opera. (7)
20— Batting against South Australia
a big bird gives the answer to-
“ Where is Apia?” (2, 5)
21 — Ring fortissimo in half of the
field. (3)
22 — A long time changing one. (3)
23 — Parent country takes it back on
a manoeuvre. (11)
24 — They make a crowd in a film
fertiliser before numbers lose
heart to the Ram. (15)
Down
1 — Blue-blooded Wilhelmina has
deadness without a characteristic
of the upright bigshot before the
French looked after the cape.
(15)
2 Most of us couldn’t write this
Teheran address. (4, 2,7)
3 am to work at a job and give
a hint also. (5)
4 Acting for the fellow’s threesome,
but evil upset 1000. (11)
5 Our French offspring is upset. (3)
6 Mo. 11 batsmen are often
regarded as being such wastrels.
(4-3-8)
B—Suva money from the first
person and Jim from whom a
thousand has already been
deducted. (7, 2,4)
11— Or change one born in the
country. (11)
12— Don’t stop tinning a clerical
worker. (5)
14—The Bernard and Byam woods.
(5) '
21 —Mone drive headlong into a liner
of the Orient company. (5)
23—Spoil mutton on the way up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 399


1
11
i i
l. m
1
% n
m t
a:
<*
I A 4H5:'
II
U
£ "
Ifil
-• .
£
Id
%. ■mm .<&
z<m
It
i
A
r-*"—»
II
Bead. Office of The City Mutual Life
at 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
1. Your bonus is even bigger this
year.
2. It has increased 4 times in the
last 5 years.
3. The Society is stronger than
ever.
4. Your policy is becoming more and
more valuable.
5. Assets exceed £32,000,000.
No
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO THE POLICYHOLDERS
To Men of Property
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being
sold to pay death duties? It can happen
to you. Death duties must be paid in
cash before your heirs can inherit. The
City Mutual Life has a policy to provide
this cash' so that your assets go
unencumbered to your heirs.
For further information, write, ’phone or
call the nearest office of the Society.
The City Mutual belongs to the policyholders —over 137,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection and security of City Mutual policies. The sur-
plus for last year was a record at Bonuses to policyholders
were substantially raised. Profits are returned to policyholders, each year,
•in the form of bonuses.
SAVE INCOME TAX. Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could
be securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember, you can pay up to
£2OO yearly in premiums and deduct it from your income tax return. By this
means, a proportion, of your investment in assurance is actually paid for you.
There is a type of City Mutual policy to suit every individual need.
Enquiries, forwarded to our Head Office in your State, will receive immediate
attention, without obligation.
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W* iBjB _____
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 2021.
Q'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: FA 2371.
W.A.: Citv Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Telephone: BF 1451.
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: LA 4831.
Tas.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Telephone: B 2504.
