

Up* l *'
fypp
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
“ DEAR MR. PIG ’’—PAGE 30
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3988
Wednesday, July 18, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 307: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
LAURISTON CASTLE, BIRTHPLACE OF JOHN LAW, FINANCIER
ONE of Edinburgh’s many showplaces is Lauriston Castle on the northern
outskirts of the city at Davidson’s Mains. . Here was born the celebrated
pioneer financier, John Law, founder of the Bank of France.
He was born in 1671, and at the age of 23 he fought a duel in which his
antagonist was slain. As a result, Law fled to Holland, where he studied bank-
ing and in 17C0 he proposed a system of paper currency. Sixteen years later
he founded a private bank in Paris and soon afterwards persuaded the Regent
to establish a national bank which issued banknotes and raised the credit of the
French Government.
John Law was also the originator of the famous Mississippi Scheme m
1719 which, in its early stages, was extremely successful, but later it proved
to be a disastrous failure and, in order to escape from the outcry, Law again
fled to Holland and later to Venice, where he died in poverty at the age of 58.
A later owner of Lauriston, Mr. W. R. Reid, greatly improved the castle
and its grounds, and in 1926 it became the property of the Edinburgh Corpora-
tion. It now contains a valuable collection of furniture and is open to the
PUbl Nearby is the famous course of the Bruntsfield Links Golfing Society,
founded in 1761, and also the course of the Royal Burgess Golfing Society,
constituted in 1735. These are but two of the many first-class-courses around
Edinburgh, for few cities in the world can provide golf-couises
numbers, in variety and in excellence of turf.


LEARN
STORY WRITING
AT HOME
... and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Head these extracts from, the letters
of STOTT-Students:—•
“My acceptances in the ‘Border Morning Mail’
earned me approximately £50.”
“My tally of 65 contributions is not bad for
one 60 years old.”
“I consider yqur Literary Course the most
valuable thing I have ever invested in.”
“Some weeks I have had as many as five
acceptances in ‘The Bulletin.’ ”
“Mince Lesson 6, 1 have had quite a steady
flow of cheques.”
“My writing is a fascinating hobby and brings
n quite acceptable cash.”
Stolfs Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
———-CUT AND MAIL THIS'COUPON-’—*-*
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
S.B. 1456 AGE
HOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obta
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boo,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u s
cessful.
The Red Page
BRIAN JAMES'S STORIES
To re-read the Brian James stories
in The Bunyip of Barney’s Elbow
(R.P. 11/7/’56) is to be charmed and
delighted again, perhaps more than
when they were appearing so pro-
lifically in “The Bulletin” a few years
ago. I know no Australian writer who
is so rewarding on a second, and even
on a third, reading; the rich texture
of his writing undoubtedly is one of
the reasons; and the aptness of his
terse descriptions of scene or charac-
ter, the shrewdness of his philosophy,
the humor that is engrained in almost
every paragraph.
But there is something more which
is peculiarly the property of Brian
James, which arises from his angle of
observation and has been described as
his “legendary quality.”
Urban readers may not notice any
particular significance in the fact that
most of his men characters are
bearded, or that on the rare occasions
when they work, they cart wood or
water with a one-horse dray; though
they could be expected to sit up when
Reid and Parkes are referred to as
contemporary politicians, and Queen
Victoria as the reigning monarch. The
odd fact about Brian James is that
the period he writes about in nearly
all these stories is that of his boyhood
and early youth.
The adults who came to see his
father must have been observed with
a quite precocious penetration; their
appearance, their manners, their dress,
their speech. Then, for up to 40 years
they were savored in his mind, so that
when they were finally presented they,
and the things they did and said, were
enhanced by half a lifetime’s reflection.
Yet, in the stories, though the reader
is constantly made aware of the
maturity of the author’s mind, the
romantic boy still has his influence.
There is an Arcadian simplicity about
the life on the small mixed farms which
is vastly different from the harassing
mechanised, scientific farming of to-
day; there seems to be no limit to the
time the farmers can spend in talking,
drinking, quarrelling or just plain
idling. The nagging wives and the
shiftless husbands, the ferocious old
men and the bitter, deserted women
never repel, but delight with their
uniqueness and their exactness. There
are tragedies in the stories, but they
never depress the reader; they are
treated as the exciting events in the
life of a sensitively aware youngster,
but now so remote that time, the great
healer, has had his opportunity for his
beneficent work.
Quite a lot of murders are com-
mitted in these pages; the victims, in
all but one case, so richly deserving
their fate that the shrewd but humane
old police-sergeant makes only token
investigations, then implicitly con-
veys his warnings to the suspects that
this sort of thing should not be done
too often. This naturally adds
enormously to the pleasure of reading
the stories; in Cookabundy so many
of the things one so dearly wishes
would happen do happen; formal
justice is displaced by poetic justice,
and every reader should be grateful
for that.
There is, however, one story which
is not set in this aspect: the last, and
in many ways the best. It is about a
bus-trip from a high plateau down to
the plains. A motor-bus, surprisingly,
and not a Cobb and Co. coach; and one
of the passengers gives the reader a
shock by having two sons in the
“Japanese war.” It takes quite a lot of
adjusting to accept the fact that it is
the recent World War II that is meant.
Yet the outlook remains the same.
The road is dangerous, the driver
ill, the bus a ramshackle vehicle with
defective brakes. Nearly all the
passengers are in a state of apprehen-
sion, or have left families at home in
that state; there is a sawmill-worker
dreadfully injured in an accident and
a weeping family which has been put
off its farm by “the Banks.”
In the hands of most writers it
would be a tragic and harrowing trip;
yet, characteristically, Brian James
makes it richly humorous. Yet not
because of any lack of human sym-
pathy; he is, in fact, the most com-
passionate of men. It is just that, in
his philosophy, human disasters are
inevitable, but the effects are transient.
Time seems to be telescoped for us, so
that we know the injured mill-worker
will get better and have a great time
“on compensation”; while the dis-
possessed farming family will find jobs
in some town, and soon learn to speak
with contempt of their former hard
and anxious life.
Strangely enough, there are some
people so ungrateful as to complain
about a lack of plot or a disregard for
form and balance in Brian James’s
stories. Judged superficially, there
might seem to be some justification for
this; in fact he has assured me that
he never concerns himself with the
technique of storytelling; he just
begins where he thinks he ought to,
and keeps on writing until he comes
to the end. Yet there is a rightness
and an artistic inevitability about
nearly all his stories. They have the
quality of tales told around an old-
fashioned open fireplace, to knowing
and appreciative listeners, who know
that it is the reality and the characters
that count in a story, whose interest
demands that the form be fluid and
adaptable to their moods, and who
would be offended by anything so v
artificial as a contrived plot.
It is a fact, too, that most of his
stories are taken direct from real life;
and it must be admitted that to present
real life with all the charm, humor
and sympathy of Brian James is as
close to artistic perfection as a writer
can hope to approach.
E. O. Schlunke.
PHILOCTETES
Stone, everywhere a stone: the hewn rock
rose out of centuries of fern and ice;
moss grows thick with water where the
shock
of time stares through a mountain’s
broken face.
The island of his pain, this plateau land
is scrawled across with lichen’s poverty.
The blind pool in the cracked rock
out-stares the sky’s sterility.
O rotting wound of pain and root
of anguish where the heart’s entwined,
lichen sucking life out of a stone:
an aching, exiled, tortured mind
turns inwards on the centre of its pain,
turns outwards to the island of its fear:
“Moss grows on roots of rock and rain:
but
thoughts are birds that won’t fly near
“to hold and fondle in these hands of blood
and feel my hands alive and warm
fold over the thin wings of a bird . . .”
Stumbling in the lacerating storm
he wandered through his days among the
ferns,
the thorn, the lichen, in the wind and rain,
and searched the crevices of rock
for bulbs sleeping in his arid pain.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
"The Tree of Man"
What on earth is one to make of a
novel so massive, so impressive, so
baffling and in some respects so
maddening as Patrick White’s The
Tree of Man (Eyre and Spottiswoode)?
For quite a number of years readers
of “Happy Valley,” which Patrick
White published abroad, and which
had small circulation in this country,
have been speaking in awed tones of
the influence of James Joyce and the
possible arrival of a major Australian
novelist; and now here he is in a book
which the New York “Times”
described as “a timeless work of art,”
the New York “Herald-Tribune” as
“one of the finest novels to have come
out of Australia” and the New York
“Post” as the work of “the Hardy of
Australia.”
These are large words; and “The
Tree of Man” is, in more than one
sense, a large book.
There is no question whatever about
the immediate interest of the book; the
instantaneous appeal it will have to
those readers who are accustomed to
find their entertainment in the higher
reaches of the contemporary novel,
whether by Hemingway or Charles
Morgan. Complete with floods and
bushfires, it is obviously an attempt
(yet another!) at the Great Australian
Novel; and if we have had that before,
at least we may be grateful that Mr.
White has not felt obliged to go to
Macquarie and the convicts for his
fiction once again, nor yet to the
earliest pioneers.
Instead, very ingeniously reminding
us that we are still pioneers—-and that
at a time when so many of our critics
are trying to persuade us that we all
live in cities and the land is of no
significance—he goes back no further
than to a few years before the First
World War and moves with his charac-
ters up to some undefined period which
we may as well call the present; though
World War II doesn’t come into it.
What he has done, essentially, is to
show how settlement begins in Aus-
tralia, today or in the past, wherever
there are still gumtrees to be chopped
down. His pioneer, Stan Parker, goes
into the bush with an axe; and
gradually, over the years, the settle-
ment of Durilgai—which could be,
say, 40 miles from Sydney—grows up
around him: the postmistress, whose
husband was an obscure artist of
genius and, for no particular reason,
hanged himself on a gumtree; the
wealthy retired butcher (very severely
handled; both for his wealth and his
trade) who built a mansion in the
neighborhood and saw it destroyed
in a bushfire; the vague-witted
Doll Quigley with her idiot brother
Bub, whom eventually she removes
with a carving-knife; the up-
roarious O’Dowds, who drink and
quarrel mightily and who have never
bothered to get married; and others.
By the end of the novel most of the
pioneers are dead: carrying on into the
future are the settlement, the grand-
children, and such trees as the axemen
have left in the wild gullies, “putting
out shoots of green thought”—by
which Mr. White presumably means
the continuing tradition of the land.
And at the same time, by following
the life-stories of Stan and Amy
Parker from birth to death—through
courtship and marriage; the difficulties
of married life unexpectedly compli-
cated by Amy’s adultery with a stray
commercial-traveller; the rewards and
disappointments of rearing a family;
the griefs and trials of old-age—Mr.
White has written a kind of essay on
the doom of man. It is significant that
his title is from Housman; it might
just as well have been taken from
“The Vanity of Human Wishes.” His
cheerful dirge is not quite fair enough
to be universal, for all children do not
turn out so lamentably as the Parkers’,
whose boy is shot in the end in some
low dive in Sydney, while his sister is
pale, mean, asthmatic, snobbish and
childless; but it is sufficiently warmed
by compassion, humor and steadfast-
ness hot to be unduly gloomy; and, for
practical purposes, it is near enough to
the truth.
So the novel is simultaneously, and
in a synthesis everywhere harmonious,
a picture of Australian man on the
Australian earth, and of the common
man on the common earth anywhere.
It is an ambitious project and it is
carried through, in many respects,
triumphantly.
Why, then, is the novel baffling?
Why is it, often enough, maddening?
Why, relating it to the great stream of
classic literature instead of merely to
the better-class novels of the day—
Mr. White is impressive enough to
deserve this compliment—do doubts
arise?
His style is, for one thing, wholly
bad.
At nearly all points of action when
it is vitally important that he should
be clear, he is foggy. When Stan is
rescuing the beauteous Madeleine
from the bushfire at the butcher’s
mansion; when Stan discovers that
Amy has been canoodling with the
commercial-traveller; when he decides
to connive at the deception; when,
years later, he nearly shoots himself—
at all these critical points action and
•motive alike are obscured.
Then the old man who was walk-
ing along stubbornly on slippery
feet slipped suddenly. He was an
old scarecrow with wooden arms
and a gun waving at the end of one
of them, and the ridiculous little
box of ferrets with its airholes
bumping and bouncing on his
shoulderblades. As the sky tilted
he pulled the trigger of the gun. It
all happened so quickly that it was
searingly slow on his mind. The
comet was still soaring slowly past
him, hot and cold, material and
fearful, as he lay on the ground and
realised that he had just failed to
shoot himself.
Did Stan try to commit suicide?
Was it just an accident? Was it, in
the Freudian sense, an accident-on-
purpose? Why should the reader have
to read the paragraph three times to
find out what has really happened; and
then, perhaps, have to go on to the
end of the chapter, pages later, to be
quite sure; or perhaps never be sure?
And why, on the other hand, when
Mr. White is not trying to be obscure,
must he be so painfully, so baby-clear,
as this?—
The man who sat in the cart got
down. He rubbed his hands to-
gether, because already it was cold,
a curdle of cold cloud in a pale
sky, and copper in the west. On
the air you could smell the frost.
As the man rubbed his hands the
friction of cold skin intensified the
coldness of the air and the solitude
of that place. Birds looked from
twigs, and the eyes of animals were
drawn to what was happening. The
man lifting a bundle from a cart.
A dog lifting his leg on an anthill.
The lip drooping on the sweaty
horse.
The paradox about this kind of
experimentalism, obviously borrowed
from the tough-guy school of Heming-
way, is that it always sounds so namby-
pamby—arty and affected.
The eyes of what animals,
incidentally, would be drawn to the
o Continued, on page 35)
HARRY AT SUNRISE
The blaze of morning wakes the bird
Domesticated in a tree,
And in the valley window-blinds
Rise like eyelids after sleep
But do not blink. And Harry finds
That evil’s left each hump of hay.
The fire is lit, and so he climbs
A rock, to see the mountains wake;
And there he sits. He cannot say
Why grass and leaves have eyes of dew
That soon dissolve within the day.
But thought, that drifts like chimney-
smoke,
Is lost in air. Now Harry’s face
Becomes a hollowed cliff of stone.
He shuts his eyes and night returns,
Though with a private moon and stars,
To rocks and creeks and troubled ferns—
And in this dark they seem his own.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


*m.
si*s>:
T *
;¥Xxo*
WSj>
mm?
mmm
<\V ,
*¥¥¥
MM* *>«¥, .**S3
BST %:**»■#?
A
.. :->
i Pf * **%
HP „_3«
-
SSfiSSA
sw
' Jt**'
¥St x»*
■ ss
* Jf
:^>^ ::; %s:x, ~
? '^*l
/
»¥:•
S£
#«*
w*
. %ifr
■
p
fill I
r
i
* : ;
m
tm
% ’*
1
SSS •:
1
■
mtm
for
o
fmm
a day
you can enjoy the benefits of
Broadloom
Now for only shillings a day you can buy one of the world’s finest carpets
Broadloom! Anthony Horderns’ have the greatest selection of Broadloom from
the finest mills of Australia, England, Belgium, France, West Germany and India
. modern or traditional styles . . ■ combinations that are just perfect for every
taste, every budget. A world of colours, too, in plain tone-on-tone Persians, Florals,
Cottons, Wilton and Axminster weaves. And don’t forget Anthony Horderns
easy payment plan provides the way for‘you to wall-to-wall carpet all your rooms.
9ft. wide from £5/12/6 to £l3/15/- yard, 12ft. from £B/9/6 to £23/10/- yard.
LUorWi l
llJlßinilunniiruj
Anthony Horderns 9
Optical Service
Our Optical Department,
situated on the Second Floor,
offers a comprehensive ser-
vice to those who are doubt-
ful over the condition of
'their eyes.
Whether it is reading or dis-
tance vision- difficulty, head-
aches or eyestrain or any
other visual complaint, our
optometrist will thoroughly
examine your eyes. Advice
will then be given on your
visual requirements. Simply
’phone for an appointment.
Anthony Horderns 9
Watch Repair Service
Anthony Horderns’ Watch
Repair Service. All work
carried out by expert crafts-
men. Let us advise you on
your watch repair problems.
We remake all types of Dia-
mond Jewellery. Prompt
service.
I .... I
Down Quilts Remade
Anthony Horderns’ will re-
make your old down quilt to
look like new. We are quilt
specialists and all quilts are
remade by quilt experts in
our own factory. Only the
best quality materials are
used for the coverings,
Please write for a quotation
now before the cold weather.
Electrical Repair
Service
Anthony Horderns’ have a
first-class Electrical Repair
Service. All work is done by
experts in well-equipped
workshops. We will pick-up
and deliver your goods. We
will undertake almost any
job and execute it promptly.
Having a Party, going
to a Ball?
Anthony Horderns’ Liquor
Department can supply all
your liquor requirements.
Plenty of Bottled Beer
Free daily delivery in
Metropolitan Area.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthonv
MAIL OKDERS TO BOX
2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. PHONE 80951 . . . T.O.P.S. FOR


The Bulletin
Vol. 77— No. 3988
Wednesday, July 18,1956
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
STRIKES AND DETERRENTS
THE dispute in the shearing-industry, which has
cost the country millions of pounds in hold-ups
and wages, is another illustration of the neqd for
an overhaul of methods for reconciling industrial
relations.
The community, through its Governments,
inferentially says to workers and those who employ
them: “In order to give you a fair deal mutually
and assure that the country won’t be disrupted by
quarrelling, we will establish an arbitration-system
at public expense to protect the rights of each of
you. In return it is a bargain that you won’t
disrupt industry, but will respect the rulings of our
—and your own—courts.”
This implicit agreement is not being carried
out by the unions. Sometimes it isn’t carried out
by employers, either, but they are mild offenders
beside the Communist-run key-unions. Further-
more, the Federal system has led to the existence
of two sets of arbitration authorities, especially in
those States where “Labor” Governments subscribe
to the theory that all men are equal, but that
“Labor”-supporters are more equal than others.
Thus, through no fault of the courts and com-
missions themselves, arbitration has become a
tangle of contention to which every resource of
cunning and obstruction is sometimes applied by
the parties without regard for the public good, and
every point at law is taken regardless of expense.
Proceedings in industrial disputes are carried on
tooth-and-claw, with no holds barred that the
courts are unable to prohibit.
The shearing strike is illuminating case.
It began in Queensland last year, and there it is
still going on. Queensland awards are fixed by an
industrial court created by the Ryan Government.
The principle on which wages have been adjusted
during the past few years was one established on
the application of the A.W.U. itself; the principle
that wages should move in accordance with the
movement of wool-prices. The A.W.U. in its
applications stressed the validity of this principle
until employers last year called for its application
in a falling market, and the court made a 10 p.c.
reduction in wages.
Then the union repudiated all its own argu-
ments and has resisted the finding of the court by
a prolonged and wanton strike, accompanied by
intimidation and threats of violence which in
places has compelled carriers of so-called “black
wool” to feel the need to travel armed.
If the employers had done anything of this
sort the “Labor” Government would have done
something drastic about it. But the Gair Govern-
ment wouldn’t dare to lift a finger to oppose the
A.W.U. in a major way. It has allowed the court
ruling to be treated contemptuously; and now the
court has felt compelled to abolish A.W.U.
preference in shearing-work.
In N. S. Wales, Victoria and S.A. the adjust-
ment of wages in relation to sharply-fallen wool-
prices was dealt with as a Federal matter. The
hearing for an interim pastoral award last March
came before Mr. J. R. Donovan, who went from
his job as private secretary to Mr. Eddie Ward to
the conciliation-bench in 1947. He had no hesita-
tion in reducing the eastern States’ shearing-rate by
5 p.c.—from £7 6s. to £6 18s. 6d., which, as the
result of Federal basic-wage rise, went up to
£7 Is. 3d. on June 1. The union, however, instructed
its members to flout Mr. Donovan’s finding and
not to shear at the new rates, causing huge disloca-
tion and loss and disturbance of relationships and
trade in N. S. Wales.
Next, the A.W.U. went to the High Court for a
writ of prohibition against the conciliation com-
missioner and the employers in respect of the reduc-
tion in wages and against further proceedings along
the lines of the application for a permanent award.
Mr. Donovan, at the request of the employers,
had included an order that the award should relate
not merely to A.W.U. members but to very many
pastoral workers in N.S.W. who are not A.W.U.
members.
The High Court decided on June 15 (Alan
Taylor, J., dissenting) that Mr. Donovan had no
jurisdiction to extend the award to non-unionists.
Non-unionists in N. S. Wales come under a
State pastoral award, and were entitled to £7 9s. 6d.
a hundred, a higher rate than that fixed by the
Federal Conciliation Commissioner. Thus, the
A.W.U., in effect, had applied to the court to rule
that those who refused to join the A.W.U. were
entitled legally to a higher rate than that fixed by
the commissioner for their own members in a ruling
binding upon them and their members.
In fact, to increase his’ wage, any unionist had
only to repudiate the A.W.U., and, as Mr. T. C.
Sanger, president of the Federal Graziers’ Council,
remarked, “Since there is no legal means of
distinguishing between unionists and non-unionists,
the task of disproving a claim by a worker that he
is a non-unionist is impossible.”
The employers found that the only thing to do
was to agree—pending a final pastoral award by
Mr. Donovan, which all parties have decided to
accept—to pay everybody according to State award,
which means at a rate 9d. a 100 above the minimum
rate claimed by the A.W.U. •
In Queensland, where the strike is in its seventh
month, the award stands at £7 os. 6d„ against the
£7 9s. 6d. now temporarily agreed to in N. S. Wales.
The position illustrates the kind of glaring
anomaly that can arise through conflict of State
and Federal arbitration-systems. This particular
matter applies to N.S.W. only, and it has been held
clearly that the industrial commissioner can have
no authority to make an award unless “the Consti-
tutional condition is fulfilled that there must be
an industrial dispute extending beyond the limits
of any one State” —the words #re those of the
Federal Chief Justice. And, because of the conflict
of Federal and State law, “a State award regulating
the shearing of less than a quarter of a million
sheep” makes it, as the graziers have pointed out,
“impossible to support the Federal award, of which
it was originally a copy.”
The fact that the way lies open for such devices
as are used to invalidate or fob-off awards shows
the absurdity of the whole industrial position.
Drastic and widespread reforms are necessary, far
beyond the kind of tinkering in which the Federal
Government has been indulging in the past few
years.
In Australia a national centralised system of
arbitration might be unworkable by itself; but a
unified national system of collective negotiation and
arbitration on a regional basis would work. v
No system, however, can be mafae to work until
the power is removed from the hands of the Com-
munist planners of revolution to disrupt industry
for reasons unconnected with the interests of their
rank-and-file. There must either be penalties
sufficiently heavy to deter saboteur union-leaders
from calling “go-slows,” “stop-works” and strikes
to intimidate the employers into jettisoning court
findings or there must be another way found. It
seems equitable that where frivolous or intimidatory
or sabotaging strikes are called those who generate
them should be penalised sufficiently to discourage
this type of action.
A few civil actions for damage by individual
losers through strikes like the shearers’ strike
should have a good effect. A test-action or two
seem to be indicated.
Should Killers Be Killed?
REJECTION by the House of Lords of a bill to
abolish the death-penalty for murder was not
unexpected. This bill, a private one, which in both
Houses was treated as a non-party measure, was
carried in the Commons by the narrow majority of
19. The Lords rejected it by 238 votes to 95.
Final say still rests with the Commons; if that
House stays of the same mind the death-penalty
will go in 12 months’ time, irrespective of what the
Lords may then say. It isn’t, however, by any
means certain that a second vote in the Commons
would give the same result.
Most of the arguments against the penalty
spring from religious or humanitarian reasons. In
Australia these are complicated by political factors
in that the “Labor” party is pledged to the aboli-
tion of capital punishment and when in office
almost invariably commutes the sentence without
any consideration of the deserts of the case. This
has led to the objectionable position that in some
States the fate of a criminal may depend on which
party is in office at the time he is sentenced.
At the time of the general election in Westralia
three months ago the appeal of a condemned
murderer was pending. The Hawke “Labor”
Government was returned and “her Majesty’s
prerogative of mercy” was exercised, the condemned
man receiving a life-sentence instead of being
hanged as sentenced. Had the Opposition parties
won the election the sentence might still have been
commuted, but only after due consideration of the
merits of the case—not, as a matter of course, to
conform to a party-platform. In at least one recent
case in N. S. Wales a young murderer remarked to
the police when arrested, “Anyway, they won’t
hang me. There’s a Labor Government in Sydney.”
The private bill recently before the British
Parliament arose out of the report of the Gowers
Commission, which was appointed in 1949 to
consider and report whether the penalty of capital
punishment for murder should be limited or
modified.
When the House of Commons .debated the
Gowers Report last year a back-bencher motion
was introduced proposing the suspension of the
death-penalty for an experimental period of five
years. Home Secretary Lloyd George opposed this,
saying that it implied permanent abolition under
the guise of an experiment. If a change was to be
made, he said, the right course was “to face the
issue squarely and abolish the penalty outright.”
The proposal was defeated by 245 votes to 214.
The report itself was merely “noted.” The
Home Secretary said the Government felt that the
idea of the jury deciding the sentence would be
unworkable. As to raising the age-limit for hanging
from 18 to 21, he pointed out that, although there
had been a general decrease in crime, the number
of persons between the ages of 17 and 21 who had
been found guilty of crimes of violence was increas-
ing alarmingly, and • “the Government, therefore,
could not think the present time was an appropriate
one to remove a sanction which might deter young
mep from committing murder.”
In both the Commons and the Lords the
advocates of abolition laid great stress on the
possibility of a miscarriage of justice whereby an
innocent man could be hanged. .In the case of a
life-sentence some redress could be offered, they
said, but hanging was irrevocable. Their opponents
replied by challenging them to cite one case in
modern times where it could be said with certainty
that an innocent man had been hanged.
No case was quoted. The nearest approach
was that cited by Mr. Chuter Ede, who, as Home
Secretary in the Attlee Government, had the
responsibility of rejecting the appeal of Timothy
Evans, sentenced to death “on apparently over-
whelming evidence of murdering his infant
daughter, a second charge of murdering his wife
not being presented.”
Evans protested that his wife was murdered by
John Christie', who was living in the same house.
Three years after the hanging of Evans, Christie
admitted, the killing of six women whose bodies
were found in the house. “If those facts had been
known to the jury at the time,” Mr. Ede told the
Commons, “they might have found Evans guilty of
murder in conjunction with Christie. I doubt if
they could have found Evans guilty of murder in
any other circumstances.”
Mr. Ede’s uncomfortable feelings on that case
are readily understandable, but his statement
doesn’t amount to an admission of Evans’s
innocence.
When the N.S.W. Government, implementing
“Labor” policy, abolished the death-penalty last
year Attorney-General Sheahan traversed the argu-
ments for and against, and concluded:—
For present purposes I put the position no
higher than this: that the policy of the Govern-
ment is against the death-penalty; that the law
should accord with reality; and that no purpose
whatever is served by requiring judges to go
> through the formality-of pronouncing a death-
penalty when everyone in the court and the whole
public knows that it will not be earned into effect.
In plain words, the law was altered purely
because the “Labor” platform said it should be.
Yet, strangely enough, although that platform
makes no distinction between crimes, the Cahill-
Sheahan bill still retained the death-penalty as the
proper punishment for treason and piracy.
Mr. Treatt, who was then the Leader of the
Opposition, pointed out the inconsistency of this
attitude. He favored the retention of the death-
penalty for murder also; he felt there were some
cases where no reprieve should be granted.
Many emotional, impractical and sentimental
people say that punishment should be exacted
only to reform. Reform is a good thing, but there
are answers to the contention that reformation is
the only purpose of punishment. There are some
criminals that more practical men and women say
are beyond reformation. Those who reject capital
punishment do not want to admit that there are
persons who are incapable of being reformed and
who can be prevented from committing crime only
by fear of punishment.
Opponents of capital punishment deny its
deterrent effect. The Gowers Commission admitted
there was some evidence that it was a deterrent
and that abolition might be followed for a short
time by an increase in homicides and crimes of
violence. It urged, however, that this possibility
should not be exaggerated.
In that connection it should be mentioned that
in 1941-42, the first year in which the death-penalty
was virtually abolished in N.S.W., 30 cases of
murder and attempted-murder came before the
courts. In 1953-54, the last year for which figures
are available, there were 60 cases, and for the four
years 1950-54 the average number was 58. It is a
long time since crimes of violence, including
assault-and-robbery, rape-in-company and bashings,
especially by youths, have been so common as in
the last few years.
The last word on capital punishment has not
been spoken, but those Australian States which still
retain the death-penalty will be wise, not to be
swayed by emotionalism, sentimentality or political
prejudice when facing the periodical demands for
its abolition.


RESCUE OPERATION


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ways That Are Dark
In the midst of the flurry about Khrush-
chev’s reported slathering attack on
Stalin, of which he hasn’t acknowledged
the authorship, and which “Pravda”
meritions as “matter issued by the
United States State Department to the
press” (which it describes as “Comrade
Khrushchev’s Report to the 20th Con-
gress of the Communist Party”), Russia
has come along with another smooth
“peace”-line.
The text of Khrushchev’s alleged
speech was issued on June 4 in Washing-
ton. Talks between Tito and the Kremlin
began in Moscow the next day. On the
day following, Bulganin addressed
messages on disarmament td President
Eisenhower, the President of France, the
Prime Minister of Great Britain, Chan-
cellor Adenauer of Germany and the
Prime Ministers of Switzerland, Canada
and Turkey.
Bulganin had the impudence to begin
his address to the United States by
informing President Eisenhower that the
negotiations which were begun after the
end of the war for reduction in arma-
ments and prohibition of atomic weapons
had “unfortunately not yielded results.”
He said nothing, about the fact that
this had been the outcome of a situation
in which Russia not merely maintained
huge war-strength but used it to seize
Eastern Europe and subdue it as part of
the Soviet bloc, and also kept its Far
Eastern forces mobilised to take over
Manchuria, which it held in trust, and
hand over the Allied resources to the
Communist Chinese in betrayal of a
solemn agreement.
Comrade Bulganin has come at last
“to the deep conviction that, at this time,
when there is a definite relaxation of
international tension and the ‘cold war’
is receding into the past, the conditions
have become more favorable for ending
the armaments-race and carrying-out
disarmament measures.”
So the Soviet Union, it seemed, “guided
by the lofty aim of promoting peace
among the nations,” had decided to “take
the initiative, and without waiting for
agreement on disarmament, to effect a
substantial reduction of the armed forces
of the Soviet Union —namely, by
1,200,000 men over and above the reduc-
tion of 640,000 men carried out in 1955.”
Nothing was said about the fact that
these reductions were made at a moment
when the 1954-55 arrangements to com-
plete the command structure of the
reorganised armies of Eastern Europe
satellite countries had given Russia full
control of new local levies as numerous
as the reductions of its own divisions.
And nobody said anything about the new
hydrogen-bomb blasts which Japan
reported the week after the olive-branch
went forth.
It is still clear that all Russia is doing
is to fence for military advantage and
to undermine Western nations’ power to
keep the support of voters in their
military defence programmes.
Making Transport Pay!
Poker-machines and transport-deficits
being the two problems most disturbing
the minds of the N. S. Wales Government
at the moment, it’s a wonder some of
the bright boys of Cabinet haven’t
thought of treating the two problems as
one. Certainly it has been estimated
that a tax on poker-machines would
bring-in half-a-million, but in terms of
transport-deficits that’s chickenfeed.
If someone could manage a- wedding
between the machines and the trains and
trams then real m6ney could be expected.
The idea would be to register the rail-
ways, tramways and as a
club. Intendihg passengers would pay a
small annual subscription which would
entitle them to use the facilities of the
club at any time. No fares would be
charged, and no tickets issued, but every
j-ailway-carriage, tram and bus would be
liberally equipped with poker-machines.
The machines could be graded to suit all
pockets.
Details such as that would have to
be worked-out by trial-and-error —a
system in which, the railway and tram-
way authorities are already well experi-
enced 1 .
In order that the children
shouldn’t grow up in ignorance of trans-
port-finance penny-machines should be
installed on all school-buses. A
sportsman’s special, designed to take
fi,ve-shilling tokens, would be worth trying
on race-trams, even though it would only
be useful on the outward journey. This
disadvantage could be offset by convert-
ing the machine to take folding-money on
the homeward trip, thus making it into
a bookmakers’ special.
Although travel would be free, there
would be,, no compulsion about travelling
on public transport. For the benefit of
private motorists, pedestrians, M.P.s and
others allergic to trams and trains,
machines could be installed at street-
corners. These would be under the super-
vision of the girls who at present sell
tickets at tram-stops.
All conductors would, of course, be dis-
pensed with, and with a little ingenuity
it might be possible to do without most
of the drivers, too. It should not be
impossible to gear the trams in some way
to the whirring disks, in which case the
trams, at any rate, would be driven by
the passenger-players.
Finally, the Railways and Transport
Departments should be closed-down and
all transport (including the poker-
machines) placed under the control of
the Director of State Lotteries. After all,
the lottery, is the only public enterprise
that shows a profit.
Olympic Bed-and-board
“C.C.”: Northerners and westerners who
insist on the best in accommodation for
the Olympic Games in Melbourne will
have also the privilege of paying for it.
Superior hoteliers have decided on a
charge of £5 a day for room, breakfast
and bath—the charge, roughly, for Park
Lane and the Riviera in The Season.
Those who were lately puzzled by Ray
Markillie’s slighting reference to beer,
which hardly seemed credible coming
from a publican, can now see the light.
Ray Markillie is the boss of Federal
Hotels, Ltd., which has acquired the
Federal, Menzies’, the Savoy-Plaza and
the King’s in Melbourne, Usher’s in
Sydney and Wrest Point in Hobart, and
this year offered to put up a £lO- to £ 15-
million block on the City Council’s
Eastern Market site in Melbourne, with
the assurance from Ray Markillie that
the company was interested more in pro-
viding hotel-service than beer.
My experiences of Sydney hotel-bills
are memorable, but I can’t match the com-
plaint of a Sydney commercial man who*
stayed in Melbourne —not at a Markillie
hotel —for just under five days, had four
breakfasts, five beds, and a guest to dinner
for three nights, with not too many beers
and no lunches, and received a request for
just under £4O.
No doubt the proprietors of the more
expensive hotels had their eyes opened
by the experience of Maurice (Mick)
Ress, who recently bought the Oriental
and is opening eight suites, each with a
small entrance-hall, a bedroom, living-
room and bathroom—one, the Royal, has
an additional bedroom and a study—and
has let them at £lO a day (two persons).
The eight were booked for the Games
before one was finished.
Hotels without much plush and com-
fortable second-class, licensed houses in
the nearer suburbs have comforted the
Olympic Civic Committee with the
assurance they won’t charge the visitors
more than normally, and there is, of
course, inspected-and-passed accommo-
dation in private houses at 30s. a head
for bed-and-breakfast.
The wowsers used to complain that
all the publicans thought about was
selling beer. Clearly it isn’t what all of
them think about now. As Nuffield
found, it’s more profitable to sell cars
than bikes.
The Tiger's Walking
In the remarkably short time since the
dust-up in Victoria, the pattern of
eventual complete control of the trade-
union movement is becoming unpleas-
antly clear.
This is most apparent to those who
know their way around Melbourne
Trades Hall, the delegates and their
policies. The Reds effectively control the
Trades Hall Council. Resolutions are not
brought in by the executive unless they
have been agreed to in private by the
Communists, and resolutions that might
offend the Comrades are simply not
brought down..
The reason for this is simple. The
Communists fyold the balance of power
between the Groupers and the Cain-Lab.
officials, and the executive, still fighting
to retain office, can’t afford rebuffs in the
full council.
The Communists are also winning their
way into key positions in the unions on
“unity” tickets with the Cain-Lab. dupes.
They made some gains among the postal
workers and succeeded in the A.R.U.
elections in getting J. J. Brown back as
secretary, as well as making gains on the
executive. Union successes increase their
power, as well as their numbers, at the
Trades Hall Council meetings.
There is no doubt of the alliance
between official Labor and the Com-
munists in the unity tickets for union
elections ; the naive explanation that the
Communists incorporate official candi-
dates among their own in the unity tickets
is an affront to the thinking unionist.
Official Labor has not disowned any unity
card or issued its own. Its ride on the
tiger’s back could be quite brief.
Politics and Death
“Stromlo”: Even in the face of heart-
rending tragedy Dr. Evatt can be relied on
for some kind of comment which, in a
backhanded way, may be taken as reflec-
ting in some degree on the Administra-
tion. In recent months he has kept a dis-
creet silence, even, as one pdiitical writer
pointed out, in the face of the starvation-
riots in Poland. Yet when the Royal
Military College at Duntroon lost five
cadets by a drowning tragedy on Lake
George, Evatt didn’t await the official
acknowledgment of loss of hope before
coming out with a statement holding
a barbed sting.
Dr. Evatt expressed sympathy with the
relatives, and said lives had been lost in
a valiant attempt to save others, “in
accordance with the great tradition of
Duntroon.” Then he proceeded: “In the
circumstances I deprecate any suggestion
by Army authorities of a breach of rule
or regulation, especially at this time of
bereavement and deep suffering for the
relatives.”
This, surely, was more likely to stir
grief and to induce bitterness than
the brief statement earlier of the
commandant that permission h'ad not
been given for sailing on the day of the
tragedy. If this fact had not been made
clear early in the case, there might have
been some unjustified criticism of the
college which would have been far more
hurtful to relatives than an indication
that some high-spirited boys might have
overlooked something.
No one except Dr. Evatt had shown
the slightest sign of resenting the factual
statement, and everyone had felt that the
poignant nature of the tragedy, the loss to
relatives and to the- nation of five invalu-
able lives was the only consideration in
the minds of'the college authorities and
the community ifi general.
Back to Base
Last Thursday R.A.A.F. Transport
Flight, Japan, landed at Canberra, in
chilly weather. The flight was met over
Lake George, lying like a great pool of
ice some 6000 ft. below, by an R.A.A.F.
Dakota carrying press- and movie-
photographers, for this return to the
home-base had some news-value, and
rather more significance.
It is the last R.A.A.F. unit —in fact,
the last Australian service-unit —to return
from Japan, and thus ends a phase of
history which began with the sending of
Australian troops to occupy Japan, and
merged in the fighting in Korea.
'The R.A.A.F.’s occupation-contingent
was preparing to return to Australia when
the Korean War broke out, and within
a matter of hours 77 Squadron was- in
action. The need for air-transport was
plain early, and No. 30 Communications
.Flight was formed by adding two Dakotas
to the one used by the BCOF C.-in-C.
The number gradually rose to eight, and
th,e unit was renamed No. 36 (Transport)
Squadron.
After the Korean armistice 77 and 36
squadrons, together with R.A.A.F. base
and maintenance units, were gradually
returned to Australia. In March last
year R.A.A.F. Transport Flight, Japan,
was formed to carry on the job of provid-
ing air-transport between Japan and
British Commonwealth Forces in Korea.
The four Dakotas landed at Canberra.
The crews stood at attention before their
aircraft, and Air-Vice-Marshal, Walters,
who had flown up from Richmond that
morning for the occasion, walked over
to No. 97, leaning into the wind. Shook
hands with Squadron-leader Gordon
Waller, who commanded the flight, and
dismissed the parade. Too much wind.
Everyone moved inside, where Air-Vice-
Marshal Walters made the speech which
would otherwise have been lost in the
gale. A few simple words of greeting,
and recognition of a job well done.
No member of Parliament seemed to
think it worth his while to be there to
say a word of welcome. The fortitude of
press-photographers who took photo-
graphs (from the open door of the
Dakota) of the flight sailing in over
Lake George and into Canberra, against
a snowy sky and the white-tipped Alps,
seemed largely wasted, judging by the
coverage in the city press. Perhaps that
sort of thing can’t be helped—how many
generations of Britain’s soldiers have
returned from frontier wars to find
civilians know nothing about them?
But, after all, the return of the four
Dakotas was the end of a chapter in our
history, which isn’t yet so long that we
can afford to skip the pages.
•
Virus in the Paddocks
Dame Jean Macnamara, a protagonist
for 20 years of the introduction of
myxomatosis for the destruction of
rabbits, has opened her second one-
woman campaign in Victoria for another,
and this time a thorough, test of the virus
against the pest.
Dame Macnamara, a Spring-street
medical specialist, has always had a
good press, and, since the astonishing
success of myxomatosis in the first large-
scale experiments in 1950, support from
the newspapers has been strong. This
was fortunate, because officials generally
have been apathetic, and their indiffer-
ence has discouraged farmers in many
areas.
After the first field-test had stifled lay,
official and scientific criticism, the Vic-
torian Government was still reluctant to
embark on any full-scale attack, and
only £4OOO was spent in the first two
years. There were two scientific field-
workers, who were paid the salaries of
superior garbage-removers, but they
threw-in their jobs when they were
denied even microscopes and elementary
equipment for months on end ; and now
there is one. Even the original two
couldn’t have been maintained if the
Wool Realisation Trust hadn’t made a
grant.
The original release of the virus in
the Murray catchment was so effective
that its results spread from Victoria
through N.S.W. and as far north-west
as the Kidman country. In five years
it increased the nation’s pastoral assets
by from £2OO million to £3OO million.
In the 1952-53 season, myxomatosis,
then at its peak, was reputed to
have augmented the wool-cheque by £3O
million. Erosion stopped dramatically,
and pastures improved.
In March this year the C.5.1.R.0.
announced that myxomatosis would fail
to control rabbits effectively if the death-
rate among infected animals dropped sig-
nificantly below its present level —90 p.'c.
At the opening tests in 1950 the death-
rate was 99.p.c., but rabbits developed a
resistance to the disease, and the virus
became less potent.
The C.5.1.R.0. foresaw a case-
mortality drop to 50 p.c. in five to 10
years in some areas, and most scientists
agree a high death-rate is essential. Fifty
per cent, would be inadequate because of
the rabbit’s high reproductive-rate, and
recovered cases would acquire immunity
from the myxoma virus.
Dame Macnamara, with her daily
bread to earn in an exacting profession,
has acted only as a spare-time, unpaid
general of the campaign. Her warnings
that potent strains of the disease should
be released in areas where the killing-
power has been weakened were largely
unheeded ; the ill-equipped scientists in
the field were under lay direction.
Her present aim is the establishment
of a branch of the Lands Department,
with a top scientist to direct the tests
with adequate funds —similar, in fact, to
the direct manner in which Victoria has
tackled t.b. and mental hygiene in
recent years—and, if necessary, by Act.
The present Victorian Government is
interested, the C.5.1.R.0. is keenly
interested, and Victoria, as the most-
closely:settled State, is the ideal area for
the knockout effort.
Brother Clive—and Bert
The decade-long battle between Cahill
and Heffron (not always acting as allies)
and Clive Evatt, M.L.A., reached a new
phase when, on a report from caucus,
the N.S.W. “Executive” purged Mr.
Evatt from the party in the best Soviet
manner, to the delight of those with a
sense of irony.
, Clive Evatt has long been asking for
expulsion, but at every crisis somebody’s
nerve has failed, and Mr. Cahill or his
henchmen have been heard asking would-
bfe purgers “not to make a martyr of
him.” Some of the issues which have
arjsen about him could have served well
to get rid of him —he was warned once
for having associated himself as presi-
dent of a body which had been declared
by the A.L.P. as a fellow-traveller
organisation. And it is therefore more
than good cause for a laugh that he has
(<Continued on next page ) '


been ultimately hurled out of the party
(a) by an executive which has been
formed by a United Front liaison with
Communist backers in the unions and
dominated by Big Brother Bert, whose
giant shadow looms over it from Can-
berra, and ( b ) mainly on an issue in
which his Communist admirers—he
entered Parliament under the tegis of an
A.L.P. which was swamped with the
Communist officials of the Hughes-Evans
group in 1940 —are bitterly opposed to
the Cahill Government. Also, mainly
one on which nearly every member of
the Cahill party in Parliament would
have crossed the floor with him if he
had been game—the issue of the
scandalous fare-rises.
Nevertheless, Big Brotuer Evatt’s tame
executive solemnly cast out Little Brother
Evatt by 27 votes to eight, and though
the usual plea to prevent his becoming
a martyr was made, it fell on deaf ears.
Nay, more: the two sternest agitators
for throwing him out were Fred
Campbell, the elected president at
the last A.L.P. conference, one of Big
Brother’s fanatic supporters, and
Oliver, an even more fanatic one
and a rooter for everything that both
Big Brother and Little Brother stand for
in the United Front world.
Little Brother then retired to a palatial
shack in a large tree-embowered garden
in the working - man suburb of
Wahroonga, which is one of his addresses,
and there he was found the next day
by the press nursing his dog Tim, pre-
sumably named after the famous Doolan
of the song, who “didn’t know that his
father was dead.”
At any rate, no dog’s master was ever
less dead. He was not only unrepentant
but vainglorious about his votes cast
against the Cahill Government. He was
bitter against the Government for having
raised fares by up to 200 per cent, without
having got its orders from the State
Executive which expelled him. He was
equally bitter against it for proposing to
legalise poker-machines.
He has some views about the “mystery
of drive-in theatres” and the sources of
party-funds. About these he is reported
to have said that he will “continue his
demand for disclosures,” and that “the
public would be startled if they knew
who the contributors were —it would
explain a lot of things.” It is to be
hoped, when he carries out his forth-
right intention, that he doesn’t neglect
the subject of the Federal funds, of
which Big Brother is a trustee.
At any rate, he proposes to hold a
public meeting in his Hurstville electorate
at which he will “expose the Govern-
ment,” and he says: “I feel my expul-
sion will hasten its end.”
The silence of Big Brother, who is
usually so vocal when Little Brother is
in danger, is as remarkable as the relish
with which some members of the stooge
executive who are usually in the Evatt
camp, and who certainly sympathise with
his viewpoint, went to work on Little
Brother’s immolation.
There will be political cynics inside
and outside “Labor” mean enough to
deduce that in strictly carrying-out party
rules for Little Brother’s expulsion Big
Brother’s politbureau in N. S. Wales
is deliberately setting an H(urstville)-
bomb under the Cahill Ministry and
party, which it holds captive in the
United Front only by the “or-else”
technique.
POLITICAL POINTS POINTS
“Prime Minister. Opposes Rise for
M.P.s.” No, not our Prime Minister.
Britain's.
• •
S.A. Premier Playford and his Minister
for Works, Malcolm Mclntosh, are in
hospital for operations. While there
Playford intends to work on his Budget.
No cuts expected.
• ' •
Clive Evatt has been threatened with
expulsion from the A.L.P. so many times
that the final boot probably came as a
surprise to him. Tactically it looks like
a bad blue. For some of his earlier mis-
demeanors he could have been dumped
without raising much more than a ripple
in George’s River, As it is he has been
made to seem a martyr who protested
against higher fares.
• •
N. S. Wales “Labor” executive*—the
new one chosen by the Federal crowd—
is telling the Cahill Government to submit
monthly progress reports on its
activities. The complaint is that Ministers
are out-of-touch with the rank-and-file
of the party. Cahill and co. are out-of-
touch with lots of things, but an
executive nominated by a junta hasn’t
much room for talking about rank-and-
file opinion.
• •
In answer to an invitation from the
West German Minister for Economic
Affairs to the British Chancellor to dis-
cuss exchange-rate problems the U.K.
Government replied that it “did not see
any useful purpose and would not be
prepared to take part in any international
discussion of the exchange-value of ster-
ling.” The Treasury said that the posi-
tion was unchanged since R. A. Butler,
the then British Chancellor, said at
Istanbul last September that the policy of
his Government could be expressed in
one sentence. ‘-‘lt has been and will con-
tinue to be maintenance of ‘exchange-
parity of 2.80 dollars to the pound, either
in existing circumstances or when sterling
is convertible.”
• •
The New England New State Conven-
tion, working for a commendable cause,
overstepped itself on Saturday when it
passed a resolution to sponsor an appeal
to the United Nations. It is one thing
to say, as the chairman did, that the
time has come to challenge the Govern-
ment on the rights of the area ; it’s quite
another to indulge in ridiculous sugges-
tions such as asking the Indian delegate to
appeal to U.N. on behalf of “an oppressed
people.” The proposer of the motion
said that die position was “equivalent to
the suppression* of expression in the
Baltic States.” Nonsense!
New Englanders are entitled to use all
Constitutional means to achieve their
objective and all political means to have
the Constitution altered to make their
task simpler. But that is purely an Aus-
tralian domestic problem, in which
U.N.O. has no concern.
• •
Queensland “Labor" caucus is expected
to consider Cabinet’s recommendations
on the fate of V. R. Creighton, former
Lands Board chairman, before Parliament
reopens at the end of the month. Creigh-
ton was suspended after he had given
evidence at the Lands Commission.
The commission found that there was
no evidence of corruption against Creigh-
ton, “however wrong and misguided”
some of his actions may have been. The
Government has not yet released the full
report of the commission, which found
Lands Minister Foley guilty of corrupt
conduct.
• •
No indication when the Lands Com-
mission report will be released has been
given by Premier Gair. If it isn’t pub-
lished before caucus discusses Creighton’s
position how on earth can members
give proper consideration to the justness
of Cabinet’s recommendations?
• •
Manufacturers are reported' to be
expecting “an acute shortage of shirts”
next year because of import-restrictions.
Looks as if punters’ll be in for a thin
time.
“Hadrian”: Whether or not, as “Bal-
loteer” (B. 4/7/’56) says, it would take an
appalling amount of labor to check how
any particular Queenslander elector voted
by unsealing voting-slips and comparing
their numbers with numbers alongside
the voters’ names on the roll, the fact
remains that the ballot is not strictly
secret. “Balloteer” doesn’t say why the
procedure is necessary ; an argument of
inconvenience scarcely disposes of possi-
bility. It is clear that votes cast in Queens-
land elections could be checked, and while
that possibility exists there is neither true
secrecy of the ballot nor guarantee
against future abuse. As for the past —
wasn’t there a local stink not so long
ago known as the Bulimba scandal?
• •
“A.L.D.”: A striking example of the
unreliability of the almost 100 per cent,
votes of confidence in dictators was the
referendum Persia’s weepy Premier,
Moussadek, held in 1953. Returns showed
1,607,763 votes in his favor; 810 against.
A few days later he was overthrown
and the mob was storming his house,
howling for his blood.
• •
Sir John Latham, ex-C.J. of the High
Court, but still, perhaps, the nation’s most
learned student of industrial relations,
/TICKETS
0
THE PRICE OF GOVERNMENT-BY-TRADE-UNION
suggests collective bargaining (provided
parties cede the right to appeal from a
round table), as well as a review of the
Australian arbitration-system, which
hasn’t prevented strikes and lockouts.
Albert Monk, president of; the A.C.T.U.:
“Yes!”
• •
N.S.W. Transport Minister Enticknap
says that “repeated investigations have
failed to produce a system of periodical
tickets for trams and buses which would
not be open to abuse.” Thirty years ago
Adelaide introduced a system which
worked all right. Around the edges of
monthly tickets were printed small
squares containing the numbers 1 to 31.
The conductor merely had to snip the
appropriate square (inward or outward
journey) for the day of the month. Under
this system, oncfe the ticket is snipped,
there is no possibility of the passenger
“making additional trips above the daily
journey to and from work,” as Enticknap
fears would happen.
• •
Two men have now each received
£25,000 for uranium discoveries —J.
White, who found Rum Jungle, and C.
Walton, for the discovery of the Mary
Kathleen deposits near Mt. Isa. Walton
originally got £5OO, and the grant has
now been brought up to the maximum,
following proof of the value of the find.
United TJranium N.L. has been given
£lO,OOO for the finding of a uranium ore-
body on the El Sharana lease in the South
Alligator river area of the N. Territory;
smaller amounts have been paid to others.
“Nit”: So the Russians have changed
the name of their Moscow car-factory
to “Likhachev” (R. 4/7/’56)! No doubt
they’ll be telling the Comrades that the
autos they turn out there are not only
like a Chev, but are considerably better
than a Chev and that they were designed
by Likhachev when the late Mr. Chevro-
let was still playing with toy wheel-
barrows.
• •
“In the ACT”: Next year, perhaps
just as Victoria achieves its objective
of having uniform-tax declared unconsti-
tutional, ~ the “formula” which has
operated to Victoria’s disadvantage since
1946-47 will expire. Disbursements of
tax to the States (if* the Commonwealth is
still in a legal position to grab and then
dole out) will thereafter be on the
quaintly-worded basis of “adjusted popu-
lations.” This little gem reads, in part,
The actual population of the State, plus
four times the number of children aged
five to fifteen living in the State. The
number so arrived at is to be further
increased by a percentage equal to the per-
centage which the sum of certain propor-
tions of the populations living in areas of
low density is of the population of the
State.
No wonder the birds in Federal and
State Treasuries are able to blind the
Premiers with science!
• •
Victoria won’t have its own price-
control, although the Bolte-Rylah team
are prepared to play in a Federal move.
It was their then-leaders who threw out
Cain’s bill for a renewal of price-control
in 1952 because the Price-control Branch
was costing £250,000 a year and merely
giving official approval to price-increases.
If it didn’t, the goods went under the
counter.
• •
A Greek cafe-proprietor in Sydney has
been neglecting to buy wage-tax stamps
with money deducted from employees’
wages for that purpose; instead he has
been using the cash to buy lottery-tickets.
But the lottery-devil still looks after his
own; the gambler-with-other-people’s-
money shared a first prize and was able
to buy the outstanding stamps. A court
of petty sessions appreciated his luck,
but not his methods; he copped a £2O
fine.
• •
Final sale of the 1955-56 wool-season
brought the total to 4,193,000 bales, a
record. Estimated proceeds are
£332,546,000, which, through lower prices,
is £20,145,824 below the figure for the
previous season. T. G. Carter, chairman
of the Australian Wool Bureau, just
back from abroad, says the outlook for
the industry is sound:
Bradford and Leeds manufacturers are
more optimistic today about the future for
wool than they were last year. Although
world wool-production is rising, wool is
meeting with a ready demand, which augurs
well for stable prices.
Not only woolmen, but all Australians,
will hope he’s right.
John Blyth Hayes, who died in Laun-
ceston on Thursday, at 88, was Premier
of Tasmania in 1922-23, Minister for
Works 1919-23 and M.H.A. for Bass
1913-23. He resigned from the Tas-
manian Assembly on election to the
Senate in September, 1923, to fill the
vacancy left by the death of Senator
Bakhap. Was a Senator for 24 years;
president of the Senate 1938-41.
• •
“Stromlo”: Behind the N.Z. purchase
of diesel locomotives, and the prospect of
manufactured exports increasing by £2O
million in the coming year, is a story of
crucial interest to the Australian motor-
trade. This industry was beginning to
feel the pinch before the recent sales-tax
increases, and the sharp drop in local
sales has stimulated it into successful
searches for markets abroad, especially in
Asian countries. Three firms, Holdens.,
International and Chrysler, are now
exporting to N.Z., and this market is
expected to expand. The real prizes, how-
ever, are in India, Pakistan, Indonesia and
in parts of Africa, and some important
announcements are believed imminent.
One helpful aspect is that the decline of
sales in Australia makes vehicles more
readily available for export.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TVTO wonder there are so many train-
derailments when one considers the
expansion and contraction in steel these
days —it’s much greater than it used to
be. A.W.A.’s steel tower lofting above
York-street, Sydney, demonstrated this
when a fire immediately below made it
expand at a colossal rate. Melbourne
“Argus” reported the height of the towel
as 100 ft. ; “S. M. Herald,” 150 ft. ; Mel-
bourne “Age,” 163 ft.; Sydney “Tele-
graph,” 173 ft.; “S. M. Herald” again,
230 ft. Fortunately the fire was extin-
guished before the tower became a
hazard to aircraft. —“Vidi.”
❖ ❖
“Opsimath”: Woman driver was relat-
ing how a lorry just missed her small car
in a thick Melbourne fog: “He came
round the corner at me like a flying
buttress! ”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Nedrium”: Glanced-in on North
Queensland’s medical conference and
noticed one dignified gent, totally
absorbed in proceedings in contrast to
the pervading mild interest. Subject
under discussion was alcoholism, and
the boy's were shooting straight from the
•hip at the northerner who regarded seven
pints of beer a day as a fair thing.
Interested gent. I later found was boss-
cocky of leading local brewery, invited
along because of his “special interest” in
the topic.
♦>
“Collins St.”: Old Melbourne, which
is disappearing faster than original
Sydney, historians say, will lose the Angli-
can Church of St. John, now reported
sold to its Latrobe-street neighbor,
“The Argus,” for £250,000. It is one of
the two originals in the Mission of St.
John and St. James. The other, St.
James’ Old Cathedral, is Melbourne’s
oldest church. The west-end of Mel-
bourne has lost its former character, and
is, now chiefly occupied by commerce.
St. Augustine’s, in Bourke-street, is com-
paratively deserted; Roman Catholics
flock towards St. Francis in the city
proper. Even the Australian Church has
had to give up in the city’s east-end and
sell its Russell-street church to the
Government. Still, £250,000 is a tidy
beginning for the Anglicans for a church
or two in the rapidly developing outer
suburbs, where the population is continu-
ally increasing. (And He said unto them,
Go ye into all the world, and preach the
gospel to every creature.—Mark 16:15.).
❖ ❖
“Tasma jun.”: Heard over an A.B.C.
Tasmanian regional-news session: “The
new hall will be opened with a special
delicatessen service” (pause, while the
announcer was apparently peering at the
script) . . . “Pardon, I’ll rfead that again
. . . dedication service, at three-o’clock!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: The trailer of “Richard
III” left the cinema-audience making
audible and appreciative comments. The
woman behind me sighed: “Isn’t Laur-
Just between you and me, it's back-to-front. I hadn't the nerve
to Wear it the right Way round."
ence Olivier marvellous? Ido wish he
didn’t have to smother those two dear
little princes, though.” “Things were
different in those days,” said her husband.
“People were more ruthless. And those
kids were in his way! ” He didn’t say any
more, just shifted' the sticky baby on to
the other arm, in order to put the seat
down once more for the floor-exploring
toddler, and then dig out a coin for the
“O, for the wings—for the wings of a dove....!"
icecream-demanding child on the other
side.
*5-
“Ardoyne”: Strict truth in advertising
would not only rob the public of the
satisfying feeling that it is buying the best
(B. 27/6/’56); it would also deny us the
undoubted pleasure of seeing in print
and hearing over the radio those appeal-
ing catchwords and phrases evolved by
the modern advertising-experts—phrases
which now and again bear the brand of
gerflus. Take, for instance, the name-tag
of an essential line of feminine wear:
“Hidden Treasures.” I believe the “bra.”
so advertised sells like hot -cakes.
“S.M.S.”: Bought, in my Sydney area,
a yearly ticket, active from July 1.
Lodged my application-form, dated June
12, on that day, but by a slip of the pen
I had written l/6/’56 to 30/6/’57 instead
of 1/7/’56, etc. When I went to collect
on July 1 the ticket wasn’t ready, and
I was told to continue using my old one
and to come back next day. Went back,
to be informed, in terse tones, of my mis-
take, and told that the application had
not been put through. However, they
would put it through then, and the ticket
would be ready on the Friday. Mean-
while I paid my money (twenty-odd
pounds) and was issued with a receipt,
which was to serve as a ticket for the
time being. When I examined this later,
I found that I’d been charged Is. 3d.
extra. Late fee!
❖ . ♦>
“Red Hill”: Sunday-night is dustbin-
night in our Canberra suburb, and an
impressive sight it is, too, with dustbins
drawn-up with military precision on both
sides of the street. Monday-morning, in
contrast, looks more like a battlefield
strewn with the remains. The usual
identification and proclaiming of owner-
ship follows, and we often have to rescue
our dustbin from our nextdoor neigh-
bors, the official representatives of an
overseas country. We admire their com-
parative mastery of English, but were
rather flabbergasted when at a party in
their house we were introduced to every-
one as “the dustbin-man.”
aren’t much ; the full pension is £3 10s. a
week and the departmental view is that it
is given to two and doesn’t disqualify the
recipients for the old-age pension. Clergy-
men pay two or three shillings a week to
the pension-fund, but their tenure lasts
until 70 years, and there are usually
locums, or odd services, at that age, too.
❖ ❖
“Jack L.”: It had been a pretty good
reunion, and going up the half-dozen
front steps at home Joe crashed badly.
Told the little woman next morning:
“Slipped, dear; missed the' hand-rail.”
“Yes, by about fifty yards,” she said.
“You took it to the back shed for repairs
months ago! ” .
❖ ❖
“T 755”: “MacHoots’s” par. (B.
27/6/’56) on the old London Assurance
building in Sydney brings to mind another
and less romantic usage. Con.-men work-
ing the “gold-for-notes” and similar
rackets often brought their victims to the
front entrance in Bridge-street. The mug
was told to wait “while I go in and fix
it up for you,” the spieler getting-away by
the rear entrance in Dalley-street and tak-
ing his choice of a George-street or Pitt-
street tram.
♦3* *> ♦>
“Agricola”: We were discussing
income-tax. One bloke snorted, “Fancy
Fadden only allowing £l3O deduction for
the missus. You couldn’t get a decent
washing-machine for that!”
“Curate’s Egg”: War on unscrupulous
makers of sausages (B. 20/6/’56) is
always a good stock news-item. One of
the brightest among up-and-arrived young
pressmen told me that his first front-
page story was on the subject Of snags,
or rather the ingredients discovered in the
wares supplied by one purveyor. On being
congratulated on his story by the
chief-of-staff, the youngster asked on
what grounds it had made the front page;
he modestly admitted that he saw no
excellence in its presentation. The chief
agreed wholeheartedly with the confes-
sion, but explained: “It’s the human
interest that lifts it out of the ruck, my
boy! Everybody eats snags, and every-
body’s interested in reading about ’em.”
“D.”: Archdeacon Chesterfield, of
Wangaratta, has bought a property at
Tungamah (Vic.) and is settling-down
soon to become a farmer, 10 years or so
before his retirement is due. Old-timers
among Anglicans can’t recall a similar
retirement since a few clerics, with grow-
ing families, retired to go into real-estate
and motors, after the first war, to help
pay the school bills. Anglican pensions
JACKPOT FOR A TREASURER
‘‘The N.S.W. Cabinet will on the advice of
Chief Secretary Gus Kelly agree to legalise
poker-machines in non-proprietary club’s. The
tax to be imposed on them is estimated to yield
£500,000 p.a.”
Ingrate, frozen-faced you’ve stood
While l have fed you well
On metal, marvelling at your
capacity,
Your digestion all too good.
I’ve been tempted then to fell
You forthwith for your devilish
voracity!
And I fancy that behind
Your iron front’s lurked a fear —
Not of the words with which l am
berating you ;
Fear of more potent kind:
That Nemesis is near,
And raiding cops may soon be con-
fiscating you.
How often have I clasped
Your cold, thin hand and gazed
Eagerly into those three eyes
expressionless;
Until at last I’ve grasped
The fact ( it’s left me dazed)
You’ve skinned me, left me tem-
porarily possessionless.
I deemed you then malign,
An influence accursed,
Posing a very threat to our society,
Lawless —now we’ve a sign
The law will be reversed,
Your status raised to reverent
propriety.
There will be a tax, of course;
Oh, quite small —that is, at first.
Don’t be mean-minded, though ; it’s
not rapaciousness.
It is rather with remorse
They'll impose it, for they burst.
Almost, with quite a fiscal brand of
graciousness,
Do those upright ones who run
This State, who’ve reconciled
The Treasury and the conscience
with facility.
So soon the mob of one-
Armed bandits will be smiled
Upon, and granted full respectability.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


THOSE American sailors in the news
for raiding the bar at Portsmouth’s
Independence Day beano are getting
“severe disciplinary action,” the news-
papers say. Hope Uncle Sam isn t too
hard on them: it’s the sort of thing that
might never have happened in a “wet”
Navy. Took me back to the Portsmouth
of 12 years ago, whence we embarked for
Normandy in an American L.S.T. She
was halfway across the Channel on D-
day morning before the terrible truth got
around—-U.S. Navy ships are “dry” ships,
and where was that tot of Nelson’s Blood
to come from? Our own regimental joy-
jars, as usual, were back with “B”-
echelon, but the Yanks had plenty of
medicinal spirits on board. I tackled the
quartermaster, a red-headed San
Franciscan of middle years and long
service. “Spirits is medicine,” he pro-
claimed. “You got a sick man or two,
maybe?” Said I, “They’ll all be sick men
if 1 tell them there’s going to be no rum-
issue before we go ashore.” Ginger
ruminated for a moment. “0.K., then,”
he said. “Preventive medicine, I guess! ”
—“Opsimath.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sparks”: An unusually heavy crop of
.winter ills in our family has provided a
windfall for the chemist; our medicine-
cabinet is rapidly becoming overcrowded.
The last straw came when the fifth and
hitherto only healthy member of the
family reported sick. The resulting pre-
scription really shook the chemist, but
he rallied, and concocted the potion. The
latest addition to our medicine-cabinet is
labelled: “Mrs. Sparks’s Cat—one tea-
spoonful daily.” Can I claim the vet.’s fee
is an income-tax deduction?
<{♦
“Pelham”: In great distress, she sought
the name of a solicitor she could trust.
The cause of her anxiety was her spouse,
who was accustomed to going off “to
lodge,” carrying a little black satchel.
Last night, it appears, she had sewn a
thread of black cotton across the top of
the satchel and, “Do you know, when
Tom returned home that thread was still
unbroken!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“D.C.H.”: Tourists are becoming a
major industry for Queensland coastal
resorts, but not all Queenslanders are
joining the scramble to attract the visitors.
At Tewantin, a small resort about 80
miles north of Brisbane, a southern car
pulled-up outside a cafe, and half-a-dozen
people went over to the door of the cafe.
Then they saw the notice: “Closed for
lunch.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kadel”: There was an unrehearsed
turn at a Brisbane wedding when, during
the reception, the bridegroom’s father (a
Supreme Court officer) served a sum-
mons for. jury-service on the bride’s
father. Combining business with
pleasure?
❖ *i* ♦>
“C.A.L.”: From bus-conversations I
had gathered that my travelling-corn- ’
panion was opposed to drink, but didn’t
realise his views were so intense till we
left the bus one night in a rainstorm.
The only shelter offering was a
pub-veranda. 1 suggested taking advan-
tage of it, but “No, I think I’ll make off
home,” my companion replied, pulling-up
his coat-collar. “You’ll be soaked to the
skin,” I protested. “Better that,” he
argued, “than accept a publican’s
charity.” And off he went into the rain.
■»J» ♦s» >J*
“Griff”: Storm-clouds are gatnermg
over Corio as Geelong’s post-war indus-
trial spread starts putting-out feelers
towards the green rolling acres round
one of Australia’s swankiest schools. The
college concerned, Geelong Grammar, is
also one of the most progressive in the
educational field, so the perturbation of
Head and Council is understandable.
As things are shaping, the school stands
to find itself smog-bound and factory-
fenced in a few years’ time.
* ♦ *
“Willpar”: Can’t understand why our
public transport should be so crowded
when there are so few of us. Why, there
are as many camels in Asia and Africa
alone as there are Australians in Aus-
tralia —nearly ten million of them accord-
ing to the “U.N. Yearbook of Food and
Agricultural Statistics” —yet camels, when
pictured, are always surrounded by lots of
solitude. The world’s horses, according
to the same source, number 53 million,
yet the only time they are crowded is
when coming into the straight and my
money’s on the one in the middle. Hens
are crowded only when in a coop (and
at card-parties) and only because they like
it that way. But imagine the hen-conges-
tion if the 10-million tons of hen’s eggs
produced in 1954 had been ’atched instead
of eaten! Those chickens would have
crossed the road because they couldn’t
board the tram on the crowded side.
Therein, perhaps, lies the solution to our
own congested conditions —we must eat
“Here is the news in brief.”
our young, as Dean Swift long ago sug-
gested. Alternative solution: smell like a
camel.
*t+ **+
“Kate”: He’s an honest, hardworking,
trustworthy bloke, my husband, and last
night he came home from work wearing
a big fat grin and, leaning his back against
the kitchen-door, said with a devilish
chuckle, “Well, at last I’ve done it.”
“Done wbat?” I thought. My mind raced
to all the things he could have done. “It’s
the first time in all my life,” he confided.
The set of his shoulders told me that
whatever he’d done was of momentous
importance, not only to him but to all his
fellow-men —he had that look about him.
“Well, what is it?” I asked. Another
chuckle, then he said, “I got the sack.”
% XV ' S 'N
*:♦ * *
“Augusta”: In Sydney these days
women are rightly described as the
“fare sex.”
*> ❖
“Narumee”: Victorian amateur golfers
have been admonished by the president
of the V.G.A. for “treating the game as
a joke.” I was once
under the childish mis-
apprehension that
games were played to
provide enjoyment for
the participants. That
was before I was taken
to watch a Ryder Cup
match after being
fully instructed in the
rules for proper
behavior on a golf-
course : no shouting
or unhallowed levity,
no hooligan treading
oh greens, no muscle
to so much as twitch
while a shot was being
considered, let alone
actually played. And
after I’d seen Henry
Cotton’s automaton
grimness, and Walter
Hagen’s scowling
ferocity of concentra-
tion, I understood that
golfers were not
intended to enjoy them-
selves until they
reached the nineteenth
hole. I kept the absurd
notion that tennis was
fun until I joined the
tournament-round and
witnessed the off-and-
on-court hostilities of
players striving to be
included in the
“invited” lists of the
tournament - commit-
tees. Now, used to
seeing strain and des-
peration written on the
faces of the barely-
b reeked schoolboys
who figure in modem international
sport, I’m convinced that the only games
still to be treated as such are Postman’s
Knock and Snakes-and-Ladders.
»!♦ *
“Bookie’s Dog”: More as a conditioner
for the Tests than for any other reason,
1 stayed up until 12.45 a.m. to hear a
broadcast of the English Derby. The
8.8. C. man who called
the race, and his col-
league who commented
on the horses as they
paraded in the saddling-
paddock, were terribly
pleasant—and about as
informative as a run-
down clock. In his
“call,” the best the
broadcaster could do was
to locate the first four
horses and that only
with a sprinkling of “I
think” and “It looks
like.” The favorite,
Lavandin, was not
called until he made his
winning- run in the
straight, and the third
placegetter, Roistar, got
his firs# mention when
his number ’went up in
the frame. The 8.8. C.
man excused himself on
the ground that he was
not “on the line.” I
wonder how he’d call a
sprint at Flemington with
30-odd horses racing
head-on at him up the
straight six!
*!♦ ❖ ♦>
“Pillo”: “To Pauline
and David a son,
Tremor. Playmate for Richard.” Noth-
ing very unusual about that as a birth-
notice- —except that Richard is the
family’s Great Dane!
»:♦ *>
“Ex-Applex”: Most interesting meal
I had in a recent trip to England was at
a Hastings hotel, at a dinner to launch
an appeal to safeguard the historic and
characteristic features of the town. The
menu consisted of famed old Sussex
dishes; Brede chicken-broth, grilled
Hastings-gurnard, roast saddle of
Southdown-mutton, Sussex blanket-
pudding with lardy johns and “huckle-
my-buff” (whipped egg, old ale and
brandy). The toasts were drunk in old
English ale, and the announcements were
made by a town-crier dressed in 18th-
century costume.' However, the effects of
the “huckle-my-buff” made listening a
drowsy affair.
* ❖
“Staff”: The new recruit was worried
because his wireless-licence had expired,
but he bucked-up when a barrackroom
lawyer said he didn’t need one while he
kept his set in camp. Rookie wanted to
know why. The knowall was a bit hazy
on the subject, but he “guessed it was
because the police couldn’t do anything
while a soldier was on Commonwealth
property.” The explanation must have
stuck, because some time later, when the
rookie was mixed-up in a pub brawl,, he
was being questioned by a cop when he
suddenly darted out of the pub and into
a phone-booth, from which he chanted
“You can’t touch me, you big mug.
I’m on Commonwealth property.” Next
day, after being relieved of a fiver by the
Beak and with an a.w.1.-charge to look
forward to, he wasn’t so sure.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Wandana”: An eerie ritual which,
with the proposed abolition of the death-
sentence in England, may soon be among
customs of the past is that of donning the
“black cap” by the judge. Known also as
the “judgment cap” or “sentence cap,”
the headwear is part of the judge’s full
dress. It is made of limp material with an
additional piece of cloth at the back to
come down over the back of the head. In
the criminal court it is used to veil the
head of the judge when passing sentence
(the judge’s chaplain is expected to be in
attendance at the time) as a token of
sorrow; it is placed on top of his wig
by the clerk. The custom of covering
the head as a sign of mourning goes back
a long way; Israelites, Greeks, Romans
and Anglo Saxons, among others,
observed it. In the Second Book of
Samuel, David is represented as ascend-
ing Mount Olivet, with his head covered,
and weeping as he went. David was
also barefoot, by the way ; but so far
as I know the learned judge doesn’t
kick off his shoes when donning the dread
black symbol.
»> +> ♦>
“Pevin”: Fellow next to me at the
book-counter bought only two volumes:
The Physiology of Sex and The Oxford
Dictionary of Nursery Rhymes. Another
example of “a ghastly public confession
of a strictly private intention”?
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
• “Sister Ellell”: Sodium - pentothal
patients (B. 4/7/’56) have given us many
a laugh. The recipients of this oblivion
return from the theatre “very light” ; most
of them feel as though they’ve been on
a lovely binge. One fightin’ soljer who
had been a patient for some time with
a troublous foot-wound had just returned
from the theatre —and the ministrations
of the orthopod-surgeon—and was in
very good voice. The orthopod's
association with blacksmith’s forge in his
pre-student days was well known
to all the boys; they respected
him for it, and admired his
ability. I asked later, “How are you,
Mac?” He replied “Mix us up a drop of
painkiller, will you, Sis? I reckon the
old Doc. thought he was shoeing a flam-
ing horse!”
“Pssst! Could you pass the sauce?"


PERSONAL ITEMS
Ford Kitchen, great-grandson of the
founder of J. Kitchen and Sons, the big
soap concern, is nearing the end of his
Australia-wide tour celebrating the
centenary of the old firm, established in
Melbourne as a candle-making business
in 1856. Although Ford Kitchen now
manages one of the Lever empire’s U.K.
concerns, he still thinks Australian beer
is the world’s best. (On this trip he has
had the opportunity of testing it in every
capital.) Which somehow seems to tie-in
with a note in the archives of the early
Kitchen organisation, which mentions
that disciplinary measures had to be
taken against factory latecomers the
morning Young and Jackson’s caught fire
and part of the stock was salvaged by
the initiative of Kitchen employees.
Ford Kitchen, after seven years in
England, says management there is not
trying hard enough. He believes that the
right kind of people going back from
Australia to management in Britain can
help give it the vitality it needs. As an
outstanding example, he mentions Lord
(Clive) Baillieu.
• •
“Maitri”: Dropped in on Sydney on
his way to the Unesco Folk Music Con-
vention at Stuttgart, likeable, quietly-
spoken Laurence Petran, Professor of
Music at the University of California.
A Minnesota product, he’s interested in
anthropology and psychology as well as
music; he has a doctorate in psychology
besides other degrees. For many years
head of the music-department and
organist at his university, he’s researched
in acoustics and successfully experimented
in the use of music for aiding the
mentally-sick in American war-veteran
hospitals. He breaks his journey to Ger-
many for a quick study of native musical-
instruments in Indonesia, Thailand,
Burma, India, Pakistan, Persia, Irak,
Lebanon and Turkey. While in Sydney
he spent one happy hour trying-out the
Town Hall organ: that giant kist-o’-
whustles, he affirms, is famous in the
U.S.
GEORGE ERNEST GREEN, chairman
and managing'-director of E. G. Eager
and Son, who has had a hand in a variety
of good works in Queensland over the
years, from the Brisbane Exhibition
(R.N.A. trustee and chairman of the
Works Committee ) to the Queensland
Bush Children’s Health Scheme (chair-
man of a very successful appeal for funds
shortly after War II).
Former Westralian Rhodes Scholar Dr.
Walter John Worboys has gathered the
'Royal Society of Arts Bicentenary Medal
for 1956 —recognising outstanding ser-
vices to designing. A director of 1.C.1.,
he’s chairman of the Council of Industrial
Design Industries.
• •
Another new job for Hugh Gerner
Brain is the chairmanship of the T. and
G. He is the boss-secretary of Secretariat
Pty., Ltd., a joint organisation for such
firms as Austral Bronze, Metal Manu-
factures, Electrolytic Zinc and other metal
shows which operate inter-State and are
directed from Melbourne.
He was a boy in the Victorian Premier’s
Office before the First War, and got his
first chance to show his administrative
ability at a time when it was really
needed: after* Gallipoli. He had joined
(as a private) the 31st Batt., which
remained in Egypt and helped to do a
remarkable job in reorganisation after
the evacuation.
Aside from other directorships, he also
helps to choose Australians for the
colonial service and University appoint-
ments. His chief off-duty interest is
Legacy, but when the organist at St.
John’s Presbyterian Church, Elsternwick,
has a Sunday off, Hugh Brain is on.
• •
“D.”: Hugh Williamson, A.N.Z.
Bank’s g.-m. and new chairman of the
Australian Bankers’ Association (B.
4/7/’56), was a bright young man, a
willing worker, punctual, tidy in appear-
ance, but unlikely to make much progress
in the bank’s service because of his poor
calligraphy. The new chairman found
that report about himself soon after he
HUGH WILLIAMSON
became A.N.Z.’s chief executive. How-
ever, such a bright young man could pick
up a cue (although his Ballarat father,
J. C. Williamson, wasn’t the famous
James Cassius), and, naturally, he bought
a typewriter.
9 9
Off to Fiji to fill an appointment as
magistrate, under the judiciary depart-
ment of, the British Colonial Office, 30-
year-old Perth barrister and solicitor
Donald McLoughlin. War II air-gunner,
he was admitted to the Bar in 1950.
Interested in climbing mountains and in
anthropology, he’ll have opportunity for
both at his new address.
• •
“Buskin”: Robin Boyd, Melbourne
architect and member of Grounds, Rom-
berg and Boyd, has won a Fulbright
award, t and leaves in August to take-up
the post of visiting Benis Professor in
Architecture at the School of Architecture
and Planning in the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. Boyd, who
writes a weekly column on architecture
in Melbourne “Herald,” has vigorously
advocated a distinctive, local style of
architecture, and preservation of the
early-coloniai buildings. He’s a founda-
tion-member and is on the council of
the new National Trust of Victoria,
formed after the Tasmanian pattern, to
preserve buildings of historic and
architectural value.
• •
After a good many years of newspaper-
work, including 36 in W.A., Old Digger
Ernest C. de Burgh leaves the chair of
editor-in-chief of the “West Australian,”
which he’s filled since 1946. An outstand-
ing leader-writer and authority on agri-
cultural and political affairs, he was
awarded the 0.8. E. last year.
• •
Certain professions and avocations are
unlikely to become crowded: milking
taipans for their venom ; delousing dud
hydrogen-bombs; retreading four-way-
stretch step-ins; profit-allocating in
Government undertakings and then
there’s didgeridoo-playing. Trevor Jones,
who’s temporarily on Professor Donald
Peart’s staff at Sydney University, and
who leaves in a month or so for Cam-
bridge on a three-year scholarship, plays
this weird instrument —the only non-abo.
didgeridoer we have so far encountered.
He followed his Sydney University B.A.
(honors in Music) with a Fulbright
Scholarship at Harvard, and took the
didgeridoo he had acquired from the
fastnesses of Arnhemland with him,
thereby introducing if to the stunned
natives of the U.S.A. Jones graduated
to the didgeridoo from the bassoon,
which, like the native instrument, is an
elongated flunk of wood. The vital
difference is in the mouthpiece, which, in
the did., seems to be made exclusively for
very thick abo. lips. The drill for a
white man who was really keen to become
proficient would seem to be to pick a
fight with someone twice his weight
before auditions ; how T.J. manages is
his own secret. Anyway, he produces
from it the same tympaniiike effects the
abo. does. *>
• 0
“K.R.”: Geelong’s coach Reg Hickey,
who coached the V.F.L. side which was
top-team at the Australian National Foot-
ball carnival in Perth, ' played with
Geelong from 1926 to 1940, mostly as
centre-half-back or fullback ; appeared in
245 games—still a club record—and was
captafii-coach for several years, including
1937, when Geelong were premiers. The
grand-final that year has often been
described as the finest exhibition of Aussie
Rules ever played ; with Geelong trailing
Collingwood, Hickey switched men all
over the field, and the moves came off.
Since 1949 he’s been non-playing coach,
and Geelong has been in the final four
every year since 1950, premiers twice
(1951 and 1952).
0 0
, Another newspaperman (B. 4/7/’56)
who is writing on a non-salary basis —and
eating—is Olaf Ruhen, originally from
New Zealand; his short stories and
special articles are favorably known by
most Bully readers. His stories are selling
well enough in America (“Saturday Even-
ing Post” is his chief market) for him to
visit such places as New Guinea, soak-
up atmosphere for later fictional use at
leisure, pay his own expenses, and still
make sufficient to keep the butcher and
the income-tax people happy—another
favorite fantasy of Australian writers.
However, it seems it can be done: the
fault lies not in the stars, but in our-
selves . . . When last sighted Olaf was
planning a trip to the Northern Territory,
where he intends to attach himself to a
droving-plant for some time.
0 0
First selection of a number of civil
servants to be posted abroad to increase
our trade, in dollars particularly, is
Kenneth McKernan, who hhs been
appointed to San Francisco in the Aus-
tralian Trade Commissioner Service. A
Shepparton (Vic.) boy, he transferred
around the departments in his youth, but
has specialised in marketing-drives;
recently was secretary of the Federal
Exports Advisory Committee. Played
Aussie Rules for North Melbourne and
was one of Brunswick’s backs Jfor eight
years to 1941. Brunswick has remem-
bered the old defender to the extent of a
rousing send-off and a life-membership.
0 0
The appointment of David Murray
Fowler to the S.A. board of Elder, Smith
renews a link between two companies
almost as old as South Australia. In
1953 D.M. became chairman of D. and
J. Ltd., succeeding his father,
DAVID MURRAY FOWLER
who had also been chairman of Elder,
Smith’s head-office board. Both com-
panies have comfortably passed their
first 100 years of business. Fresh from
skippering St. Peter’s football team,' in
1940, David joined the R.A.A.F. ;
operational flying ended when he crash-
landed his battered Spit, in England
after a raid on Dieppe. A trip to South
Africa in 1948 resulted in coal-con-
tracts for South Australia and Victoria,
at a time when both States were sunk
in post-war shortages.
• •
Father Mervyn Francis (“Bert”')
Bailey, M.S.C., who’s in charge of Santa
Teresa, the 480-square-mile mission 60
miles south-east of The Alice, looked in
at The Bulletin the other day in search
of some back numbers ; his particular
interest the “Keyline” discussion between'
E. O. Schlunke and P. A. Yeomans.
FATHER BAILEY
While on the premises he ran into another
visitor from the Territory, Laurie
Mocatta, whose medical-officer job
includes routine visits to missions. Father
Bailey took over the mission at the
beginning of this year, after experience
of the land side of mission work at
Port Keats. His earlier work had been
mainly teaching, at Toowoomba and
Croydon, after four years theology at
Rome.
The aim of the mission is to
develop a self-sufficient cattle-station.
The place runs about 600 head of Short-
horns and Herefords at present, but
“there’s a lot of work to be done yet.”
Colonel Rose, head of “the N.T. Depart-
ment of Animal Industry, who has given
the mission invaluable advice, estimates
that the property could run 1200 head of
cattle.
The mission encourages the men to
take jobs outside, so the population of
natives fluctuates a bit, but, all told, is
between 300 and 350. An interesting
aspect of the mission is the housing-
scheme started by Father Bailey’s pre-
decessor, Father Dixon: the mission pro-
vides the materials, and the aboriginal
residents build their own stone houses.
• •
Robert Law Smith, 42, goes on Qantas’s
board. A pilot with the R.A.A.F. in the
last dust-up, he has since then conducted
a grazing-property near Coleraine, in Vic-
toria’s Western District, and has been a
councillor of the Shire of Wannon for
several years. Law Smith studied law in
Adelaide before the war, taking his degree
just before enlistment.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 53, Mr. Justice George Weir;
chairman of the Crown Employees’ Appeals
Board and member of the State Industrial
Commission since 1953. A former N.S.W.
Minister for Conservation, he retained his
interest in problems of soil-conservation, becom-
ing first president of “Men of the Land.”
At 77, in Perth, Charles Walter Harper,
former chairman of directors of Westralian
Farmers, Ltd., director of Producers Markets,
Ltd., trustee of Co-operative Wheat Pool of
W.A., president of Fruitgrowers’ Association,
director of W.A. Trustee Co., and member of
the Fairbridge Farm School’s board of control.
Son of a pioneer fruitgrower in the upper Swan
valley, he was himself a fruitgrower for many
years, before going into business in Perth.
Represented Westralia at cricket.
In Melbourne, at 84, Arthur Vaux Kewney,
secretary of the Victoria Racing Club from
1925 to 1946. Born in Cheshire (Eng.), he had
his first association with the Australian Turf
as secretary to the Kalgoorlie Racing Club;
then secretary of the South Australian Jockey
Club; with the Victorian anointment when
Byron Moore passed on.
At 57, in Sydney, Henry Bruce Williams,
leading gynaecologist and obstetrician. Senior
obstetrician at King George V and clinical
lecturer in obstetrics at Sydney University for
some years, he had been medical superintendent
(later an honorary) at the* Royal Hospital for
Women before War 11. An F.R.C.A.S. and
M.R.C.O.G. (London),
In Brisbane, at 75, Albert Conlon, who went
away with the 1908 Australian Rugby League
team, in which former Prime Minister Ben
Chifley just missed selection. Conlon earlier
played Rugby Union with Gleb'e (Sydney).
At 95, in Melbourne, the Rt. Rev. Reginald
Stephen, former Bishop of Newcastle; he was
Dean of Melbourne from 1910 to 1914.


DESSERT


ABORIGINALITIES
A FRIEND who has just returned from
the U.S. attended a lecture on the
fauna of Down Under, given by a Yank
who had just returned after seeing the
wonders.
The audience sat spellbound through
tales of kangaroos—“tallest of the
aboriginals” which took well to
domestication and were easily educated.
Many kangaroos, he solemnly avowed,
belonged to football-clubs; and several
held national boxing titles.
Female kangaroos, he disclosed, laid up
to six eggs at a time; these were hatched
by the male, commonly known as
“jackeroos.”
Another of his dramatic disclosures was
that when the young are born they are
carried in a plastic-bag or pouch, specially
provided by the Flying Doctor Service.
My friend afterwards quietly chipped
the lecturer, who confided that in-xthe
few days he’d been in Sydney—he never
got any further—he had gained all of his
information, at considerable cost, from
a couple of dingo-shearers at King’s
Cross.
He frankly mentioned that facts were
of little consequence. “People these days
want entertainment,” he said. He was
sure giving it to ’em!
Hobartian.
* * * *
“Emtee”: Sixty years ago last month
the wife of manager Robert C. Sticht, a
metallurgist imported from America, lit
the first furnace to smelt copper at
Tasmania’s now-famous Mt. Lyell. The
day after the diamond jubilee of this
event the Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway
Co. announced that it intended spending
£250,000 on a home-building project at
Queenstown—which suggests that the old
copper-mountain is good for many more
years yet.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The old-timer, a competitor
in the radio-quiz session, was asked what
he did for a living in his younger days.
He said he had had many jobs in the
bush, including that of an “advertiser.”
It seemed to rock the quiz-master, who, I
suspect, thought he was having his leg
pulled. He still seemed a bit dubious
after the old bloke explained that an
“advertiser” rode ahead of a mob of
travelling sheep, notifying station-owners
so as to give them time to withdraw their
qwn flocks from the unfenced route.
* * * *
“Burr Imul”: A film I saw taken by a
wild-life photographer from a low-flying
plane in the nor’-west of S.A. should
scotch for ever any doubts as to the ’roo’s
faithfulness as a Ma. The flight started
a panic among feeding kangaroos ; with
his engine throttled well back the pilot
followed a doe with his camera. She was
doing about 35 m.p.h. while carrying a
well-grown joey, which could be seen
gradually being jerked further and further
out of the pouch, though trying desper-
ately to hang-on. Eventually Joey fell out'
and tumbled over. But Ma ’Roo, instead
of accelerating after thus being relieved
of her ballast, put on the brakes, turned
and back-tracked to Joey, stopping only
long enough to allow her offspring to
jump aboard.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Anyone in bother with
savage dogs might care to try this recipe
for scaring pooches away. It comes from
a magazine of last century. Take the
skin off the forehead of a hyena (obtain-
able from a furrier’s shop), boil it in the
urine of a colt and smoke it over the
burning hoof of a cow until it is dry.
Carry it about with you and dogs won’t
come near you—neither, for that matter,
will anyone else!
* * * *
“Sarj”: Colleens from the touring Irish
hockey-team set a poser when they visited
Victoria’s old gold city, Bendigo: they
asked the mayor for a sample of the
local product—just a tiny nugget would
Shake it up, there, or we Won't get to Melbourne in time for the Games."
do. Mr. Mayor compromised with a
souvenir centenary-badge struck to
commemorate the first find. Couldn’t
very well blame the girls—maps and
geographies still perpetuate the legend,
even though it’s years since the city
heard a mine-whistle or saw a red flag
fluttering over the poppet-legs.
* * * *
Loki”: “A.C.K.’s” description of
Kookynie (W.A.) as a “small thriving
mming-town” (B. 27/6/’56) seems rather
an understatement. My recollection of
it is as a place where something was
"They've gone — Automation , Limited , have taken over this office."
happening for 24 hours of every day.
With two rich mines—the Cosmopolitan
and the Cumberland—right in the town
itself, a population that included more
“characters” to the square-yard than I’ve
ever encountered, before or since, and
seven pubs within a couple of hundred
yards, there wasn’t a single dull moment
in the 10 years I was there. Went there
first by Cobb and Co. early in 1901. The
first sod of the new railway was turned
in February of that year, and by Septem-
ber trains were running between Menzies
and Kookynie, a distance of some 35
miles—a record that would take some
beating, I imagine. Incidentally, one
record that Kookynie does hold is for the
staging of Australia’s first successful beer-
strike, all seven pubs being boycotted in
1902 until the Bungs capitulated and
reduced prices. And this in the middle of
a goldfields’ summer!
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Fly-wire doors (B.
27/6/’56) can be mucked-around with
other than for giving access to the cat.
Once saw a cove in the mulga, using
appropriate tools, making the holes larger
in the mesh of his door. He explained
that the existing holes were too small to
let the flies out!
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Those ants weren’t bor-
ing into a green tree (B. 27/6/’56). I
don’t know of any ant on earth whose
jaws are capable of such a
feat. Without doubt, a few
years previously a large moth
laid eggs on the bark. These
hatched, and the young grubs
commonly known as
witcheries —bored through the
bark and tunnelled into the
wood. After passing through
their digestive systems the wood
looks like sawdust. Having
bored for about a foot, each
grub turned around and began
to eat its way out again by
enlarging the tunnel to fit its
increasing bulk. The wood
which had passed through it was
packed into the tunnel behind it.
On arriving at the original
pinhole-sized entrance-hole the
grub made it about the size of
a shilling, spun a web across the
entrance to keep out enemies,
pupated, and then, with the
first autumn rain, the moth broke
out of the chrysalis-shell,
emerged from the hole in the
tree, clung to the bark until its
wings dried, then flew off to
repeat the mating-egglaying cycle. Next,
tree-ant scouts arrived, located the
witchety-grub burrows, cleaned them out
and took up residence in a home that is
cool in summer, warm in winter, weather-
proof and with only one entrance to
defend. The same thing happens in the
tropics with the football-sized parasitical
“ant-plants” which grow on trees. The
larvae of the jewel-butterfly eat tunnels
into the fleshy body of the plants. After
another generation of butterflies have
emerged, ants clean out the tunnels and
take up residence in them. Scientists
call this sort of thing Commensalism.
“Pillo”: So far as*l know, the record
time in which wool on, the sheep’s back
has been converted into a three-piece suit
still stands.* On October 23, 1931, at
the Target Woollen Mills, Mascot
(Sydney), commencing with a pistol-shot,
the wool was whipped off the sheep’s
backs (in 35 seconds) and was fed into the
testing-machine. Then came dyeing, card-
ing, spinning, warping, weaving, scouring,
tentering and pressing. The cloth was
rushed to a car driven by racing-motorist
Wizard Smith, who did the 4\ miles to a
clothing-factory in five minutes. There,
cutters and tailoresses completed the suit.
Total time over all, 1 hour 53 minutes!
* * * *
“Saaedi’ : Even more than humans,
birds are slaves of habit. Save in breed-
ing-season, when they retire from my hill
for security'reasons, a pair of mistletoe-
birds follow an almost aut matic routine
of mistletoe-inspection. Nearly six
months ago one of their favorite trees
was partially destroyed by fire, the
parasitic infestation being killed. Not-
withstanding this, the two birds still
include this tree in their tour of inspec-
tion, flitting to and fro in their sprightly
fashion, and eyeing with every appear-
ance of anticipation the barren and
blackened stumps of mistletoe-bushes.
* * * *
TJfERE in Brisbane the strawberries are
AJL ripening, and today I saw a lone
currawong on Operation Reconnoitre
over my plot. Last year they arrived in
hundreds, swarming on rooftops, clothes-
hoist, trees and every other vantage-point.
The din of their combined “Currawong,
currawong” was indescribable, and the
demolition of the strawberry-patch equally
so. In vain I stitched together mosquito-
netting and old lace-curtains to peg 6in.
above the plants. The black rascals
roared with laughter and slid underneath,
dr landed on top and sank their beaks
through the net into the best berries. A
fearsome scarecrow they contemptuously
used as a bill-cleaner. Desperately I threw
things at them. They flew into the nearest
trees and tittered. Then I trained the
terrier to chase them, but a day toiling up
and down steep terraces was enough for
him, and meanwhile my prospective
sweets and luscious jam vanished into the
hungry hordes. I tried feeding them with
bread and stale cake, which they relished,
but they still fancied strawberries for
dessert. So, please, while there’s yet time,
what will keep the greedy cows at bay?—
“Rimutuka.”
COUNTRY SHOWS
Where the red dust rises
From cork and coolibah
And great gums raise their stark white arms,
They’ll come from near and far,
In station-truck or trailer,
In anything that goes,
To pack the wide enclosures
For the yearly country shows.
There’s ponies and hackneys,
And cattle in a stall;
A nip of winter in the air,
And blue sky. over, all.
A hurdygurdy’s playing
The wooden horses round,
And lolly-papers littered
By the fairy-floss stand.
There’s hucksters and shysters,
A bubble-gum stand;
Whilst over on the dais
Hear the jolly town-band
With red stripes on their trousers
And red caps on their head;
Whilst over on the pastures
Where the better beats are fed
You’ll find the station women
And slouch-hatted men
Juggling weights and measures
By the fat wether’s pen.
And when they’re called to order
The kids from far and near
Will face the judge with shining eyes,
On mokes that bolt and rear;
To watch the Southern horses
With anxious, envious eyes
In eager hope that Smoke or Tip
Will get at least one prize.
And though some wear a tailored rig
That takes more dough to buy
Than ragged jeans, from every head
The ribboned pigtails fly.
And though the squatter’s fancy hack
Shows faultless speed and turn,
For some brown shaggy station mount
Some youngster’s heart will burn.
There’s horses and hunters,
Merinos in a pen;
A chocolate-wheel with chanters,
A call-and-come-again;
Whilst over by the fences
Against the winter sky
The bright balloons are floating—
Oh, come; oh, come and buy!
The furry toy-monkeys;
The dollies on a stick —
Have a go at “Knock-em’s”
You’ll never take a trick:
For they’ve been catching suckers,
Since ever shows began—
Better save your money
For the dodgem-car man.
For where the wide plains wander
And winter herbage grows,
Through countless miles of seeded grain
You’ll find the country shows
Are on again to please the "hearts
Of those who still would see
A good horse strive to prove his worth,
A fat beast earn its .fee,
In sleek-skinned weight that bears the mark
Of faultless pedigree.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


DON’T know how close “The Banjo” got
to the little Victorian town of Tallan-
eatta, but I recollect well his lines:
Let the tears bedew our cheek,
For a man from Tallangatta
Has been missing for a week.
Now Tallangatta itself is missing, and
will be, presumably, for as long as
Paterson’s hero, who, clutching an empty
bottle, went “drifting out to sea” —■
engineers have incorporated the site in
the great Hume'reservoir, and it should be
a long time before that runs dry. The
old name, however, stays. In open-
ing the brand-new model-town near by,
the G.-G. said he was glad the old town’s
name was being carried on. “I can hear
the ringing of the anvil in it,” he said. I
waited to hear some mention of “Banjo’s”
missing drunk, but none came.—“ Herd.”
* * * *
“Inton”: The old sow and her litter
were watering at the dam near the out-
back fettlers’ camp. The New Australian
navvy said to the boys: “We have pork.
I catch sucker easy. Run heem into mud.
You watch.” They did, but something
went wrong. As the youngsters scattered
like wind-blown chaff the old girl
charged him. He, not the piglet, ended-
up in the cold safety-zone of the water,
there to stay until a furiously oinking Ma
Pig rounded up her tribe and trotted-off.
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: Old chap called just
on afternoon-tea time. No, he wouldn’t
stay and have a cup with us: he didn’t
like leaving “his boy” outside in the gig
too long because the horse was young and
flighty. I took a plate of cake out to the
boy in the gig—a 58-year-old!
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: My hat is in the ring
as a composite gesture of defiance to-
“I can tell you, she left me speechless!”
wards three Abo.-writers, all of whom
sinned in the one issue (B. 27/6/’56).
First, “Eddas” labelled the brush-
turkey Leipoa ocellata, the technical name
of another but quite different mound-
builder, the lowan or mallee-fowl.
Secondly, “Derwent” stumbled similarly
when, referring to the spiny-anteater, he
proclaimed that this “porcupine” used to
trouble youth in spelling-tests under the
name of Ornithorhynchus —the point
being, of course, that this last term was
(and is still) the generic name of the
platypus. My third
grievance arises from
an assertion by
“Saaed i” that the
powerful-owl produces
“a spine - chilling
shriek.” That belief
once prevailed, but it is
now known that the
biggest of our owls
contents himself with a
series of “woo-hoos,”
and that the “scream-
ing-woman bird,” or
“murder- bird,” is a
smaller but still-hefty
fellow, Ninox conni-
vens, the barking-owl.
* *
“Fairf”: If I’d had
a gurv handy . . . But
you never do have at
such times, and the
assassin escaped
unscathed, leaving be-
hind a scene like a
miniature battlefield
strewn with pathetic,
miniature bodies. For
a distance of 20yds.
from the aviaries, in
two directions, dead
budgerigars lay where,
wounded too badly to
fly, they had tried to
struggle away and
been caught and killed.
A pair of white wings
told of the fate of my
one albino. The wire
at the foot of the big
aviary had been
incredibly ripped away
from its staples to allow entry for
a big body. The big branch within had
been smashed down as the killer stood
on hind-legs to get at the birds. Similar
holes had been tom through two small
breeding-cages, and the nesting pairs
slaughtered. Seventeen budgerigars and
one canary murdered —just for the lust of
wanton killing! And yet there are still
people who will insist that all Alsatian
dogs are lovable, gentle creatures that
biased people do not try to understand.
' 4
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The migrant-carpenter
had been erecting new buildings on the
station, and at the local ball at the near-
by township was introduced to a pre-
datory young city-miss‘ on the look-out
for a rich pastoralist-husband. “So you’re
on the land, Mr. Risotti?” she cooed.
Pride and pity tinged the halting reply:
“No-o, miss, I not coc-key; I worr-king
ma-an! ”
* * * *
“Olandted”: Where did the “experts”
quoted by “Sparks” (B. 13/6/’56), who
were “mystified” over swallows building
in Brisbane in autumn, gain their experi-
ence of these birds? In at least 20 of the
26 years we have occupied our South
Queensland home swallows have lived
under it and have nested in the autumn,
often beginning their home-making
before the middle of April. We have seen
as many as 11 nests used during a season.
This year, one family hatched-out on
May 3, and op the same day others,
hatched earlier, began to fly, which meant
that they were a fortnight old. At the
same time another family was being fed
by the parent birds. By the noise the
nestlings made, they were about a week
old. We have noticed that when swallows
begin to nest early three families may be
raised in the one season. Our theory is
that availability of building-material—
mud —induces early home-making.
"There y go agen—over my nice clean floor.”
“C.A.A.”: A recent “Saturday Evening
Post” carried a colorfully-illustrated
article on Coober Pedy (S.A.). The writer,
dealing with life in the underground opal-
mining centre, referred in one burst to
seven-foot tiger-snakes. This was cor-
rected next issue by a representative of an
Australian travel-agency in the U.S.,
who pointed out that Coober Pedians
were well-known leg-pullers, and that no
seven-foot tigers are to be found in the
area —in fact, no snakes at all, since Joe
needs water, and the Pedy is as free from
water as an elephant is of fur.
1* * V *
THE "P.0.G."
A “POST-OFFICE GUlDE”—it’s the
best half-crown’s worth of Govern-
ment reading available in the Common-
wealth !
Mine took two-weeks’ persevering to
obtain —any local who wishes to acquaint
himself with Government-regulations is
looked upon as slightly psycho in a
country district —but eventually the two
volumes were delivered, and mighty
interesting reading they are!
Part I gives details of all postal-
services and -charges, and many a
quarter-hour I’vfe saved at our local
(Queensland) post-office by presenting
parcels for overseas with the correct
charge marked on each, the correct
Customs-label affixed and the corrept
packaging-instructions faithfully adhered
to.
Geographically, I find it interesting,
too. Should I have a correspondent in
Yemen I know that I can use the air-
mail, send dutiable articles in the letter-
post or as samples. I can send a small
package, but not a parcel, but I couldn’t
send him any “Watchtower” publications
—books, prints and cards contrary to the
Islamic faith are prohibited.
Should I wish to send a parcel to
England (as I frequently do) I can send
71b. for 6s. lOd. Four-pounds would cost
the same amount, and, having a Scots-
Australian wife, many a half-pound of
peanuts or currants has been layered
across the top of a homeward-bound cake
to bring the weight up to the required 71b.
limit. But prohibitions! They range from
rags and dirty clothes.to the dust of ribs
of tobacco, and from salvarsan to silver
bullion. Still, it’s handy to know in
advance that I can’t send my mother a
preparation from the posterior lobe of
the pituitary body as a Christmas-
present, or wish her “Many happy
returns” with a parcel of imitation
money.
If that daughter of the Workers’
Paradise at whom I winked (at a distance
of 50ft.) when I visited Murmansk in
’45 should ever get a parcel from me
she’d be surprised, because I’d find
the going pretty difficult. Although
air-mail is available at foreign rates,
small packets, dutiable articles by letter-
or sarrtple-post and an express-delivery
service are not available. To send her
a parcel I would have to pack it in a
wooden box, or sew it strongly in canvas
and, after tying it crosswise, secure the
string with' lead, steel or sealing-wax
bearing a distinctive device. So Katrinka
can’t expect any presents from me —not
at 11s. 2d. a pound, via London! . . .
Telegraph-information in the “Guide”
is comprehensive and enlightening. It
costs exactly the same to send felicita-
tions to the Kremlin as to the Vatican:
2s. 6d. a word, with a 275. 6d. minimum,
and rates for telegrams to places beyond
the Commonwealth vary from 3d. a word
for Norfolk Island to 4s. a word for
Nicaragua and a few other points in that
direction.
Starting with S.S. Acklorean and work-
ing through seven pages to the Zena,
the “P.0.G.” gives me a full list of
ships to which radio-telegrams at reduced
rates may be exchanged with Australian,
N.Z., Papuan and N.G. coast-stations. I
could, perhaps, send happy greetings to
the Manunda, on her way here with a
cargo our wharfies may, or may not,
condescend to unload.
Part I finishes with a calendar for
1957 and 1958, and a resume of principal
post-office charges throughout the Com-
monwealth.
I turn to Part II if I want to send a
fiver through the post to a friend in
Binnum (S.A.). Binnum, I discover, is
“ABRVMC,” which, being translated by
the footnote, means that it is a Non-
official Post Office, a Trunk Line Tele-
gram Office, has a telephone-service
beyond 6 a.m. but not continuous,
handles c.o.d. business, is a money-order
and savings-bank office and will deliver
telegrams if possible, but will always ring
them through to subscribers. So I can
send my fiver by money-order, postal-
note or telegraphed money-order.
Every post-office in the Common-
wealth is listed, from Blackbraes Outpost
Radio Station in Queensland to the
Sydney G.P.O.
One query: Under “Dondangadale
(V)” I am requested to “see Dandonga-
dale (V).” Is this a case of the locals
spelling their home-town one way and
the P.M.G. another? . . .
“Primister” would get my missive to
Mr. Menzies’s secretary, but should I
wish to send birthday-felicitations to Bob
himself I must use —guess what (and
believe it or not!) —“Kindlier.” Even
after the “interim Budget”!
Mr. Cahill and our Mr. Gair are not
listed, and apparently insist on their tele-
grams being addressed to “The Hon.
the Premier 0f....,” but Victoria’s Mr.
Bolte can be reached by a simple
“Premier.”
“Vicployers” seems to give itself away
as the Victorian Employers’ Federation,
as (maybe) does “Ausworku” for the
A.W.U.; but who would guess that
“Solidarity” was the address of the
A.R.U.? • •
Yes, “P.0.G.” is a dandy half-crown’s-
worth! It should be a bestseller. Only
last year I spent six words in an address
on a telegram when reference to the
“Guide” would have clipped me down to
a simple “Amberglow.” And at the time
I happened to be a director of that
company!
KOO-WARRA.
BEYOND THE OIL REPINERIES
Thistles, dry thistles, down Altona way,
A network of needles, a city of swords;
The silver and purple that summer accords,.
And autumn enhances, has vanished away:
Atrophied armies still armed to the, teeth,
Alerted and dangerous even in death.
Stone fences run, and stumble and fall
Spreadeagled under a scrabble of weeds.
Here where a hoof-hollowed cattle-track leads,
Skirting a ruin where once was a wall,
A twangling sea-wind ascends and suspires,
Plucking laments from the telegraph wires.
Towers, round towers, of industry rise
Up from the edge of the waters and seem
Like to some curious Martian dream:
Mushrooming columns set minaret-wise,
Catwalk and pipeline and balconied steel,
Concrete and solid —and somehow unreal.
Flickers of steam must have frightened the
birds .
Kestrel and gull (that have looked upon
So many a mounting Babylon)
But, out of the low cloud that lurches towards
The west, already the larks are at
Spring choir-practice across the flat.
For soon, in the shelter of daggers and dirks,
The larks will be nesting, as ever they did
Before Egypt had thought of a pyramid,
Showering the waste land at back of the
Works
With sweet unchangeable songs of joy
Even as once beyond windy Troy.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Could you act as
Executor
without expert advice?
Complexities of estate administration, probate duties
and varying State taxation laws demand specialised
knowledge in executorship.
Many executors have found that by co-joining Union
Trustee as executor or trustee they can transfer the
burdens of estate management to experienced hands,
and at a moderate cost that is often more than
justified by time and money saved through expert
knowledge of administration.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and ask for the booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(IncorpMiUd in Victoria) Established 1883
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson. C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison,
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT26
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Metropolitan Cement
CJOME say it’s lucky to be born
with a caul. But these tight
times it’s much luckier to be on
good terms with your bank-
manager. In this respect Metro-
politan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
would appear, at first glance, to
be having all the luck about the
place.
Although, in the seven years
following its optimistic flotation,
Metropolitan Cement has
incurred losses showing in the
books at £610,653, and has total
intangibles of £940,683 facing a
paid capital of £1,004,306, it had
obtained overdraft accommoda-
tion from the Rural Bank of
N.S.W. aggregating £3,625,642 at
December 31 last.
However, not all has been
lucky with Metropolitan Cement.
In spite of many political favors
granted to it under “Labor”
Governments, it has had a rather
devastating existence. Much of
its troubles have arisen from
an initial misconception of the
job in front of it, from bad plan-
ning, from the purchase of
second-hand plant (from the
U.S.A.) to start with, and from
difficulties (including the
weather) that no one could have
foreseen.
Much of the overdraft has
been incurred in adding new
equipment to the cement-works
in order to make economic the
original outlay on old plant.
There appears to have been a
lack of balance between the vari-
ous sections of the plant, which
recently the co. attempted to
overcome by the installation of
new calcinators for the kilns;
but this for a two upset
clinker production. This
disorganisation now appears to
be over, but many fundamental
problems remain with the co.
The main one is transport.
Coal has to be brought from the
co.’s colliery at Berrima and
lime from its quarry at Marulan
to the cement-works at Maldon
(near Picton, N.S.W.). Cartage
of raw-materials has become the
biggest single itepi in the co.’s
costs, whereas under the original
plan manufacture near the
metropolitan area was intended
to give it great freight advantages
over its competitors. The board
says in its latest report that
“investigations are still proceed-
ing on alternative methods for
transport of our raw-materials.”
Hopes of improved overall
results during 1955 were not
realised. The loss was £256,840,
compared with £211,593 in 1954
and £107,767 in 1953. Over
those three years depreciation
provision has averaged a bit over
£BO,OOO a year (£83,379 last
term) on fixed assets now figur-
ing in the books at £3,131,898.
The Rural Bank last year con-
tinued to charge the co. some-
thing under 5 p.c. on its over-
draft. The year began with the
0.-d. at £3,278,365 and finished
with it at £3,625,642. On this
and £lOO,OOO of debentures the
interest-bill for the year was
£159,363.
The loss attributable to the
second half of the term was
£68,829, which showed some
recovery from the disastrous first
half of it. During 1956 the board
made “a complete change in the
control at the works,” and R. S.
Burns, of Engineering Consul-
tants Pty., has assumed control
of manufacturing operations,
with power to make changes in
production-methods in order to
ease the costs problem. He has
a gigantic task in front of him,
but the report says that since he
assumed control in May this year
there has already been “very sub-
stantial improvements by way of
increased production and savings
in costs.”
In their annual reports the
directors are mute as to the
actual output of the assorted
plant at Maldon. Its present
potential is by no means clear,
though in 1954 a capacity of
over 3000 tons of cement weekly
was mentioned. The undertak-
ing is heavily overcapitalised in
relation to that of the co.’s com-
petitors, and interest and
depreciation charges, though
plainly on the light side, are a
weighty burden on production
of cement.
Cement prices which others
in the industry find quite
profitable show a loss to Metro-
politan. With nearly all share-
holders’ capital swallowed-up by
establishment costs and losses,
and the ultimate value of the
entire undertaking depending on
its ability to make profits, the
outlook at present remains
particularly unhappy.
The Rural Bank now has more
than £3 10s. af risk in the enter-
prise for every £ that was
originally put up by share-
holders :
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,004,306 £1,004,306
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . ..• 3,278,365 3,625,642
Creditors .. .. 66,521 74,999
£4,449,192 £4,804,947
Freeholds .. .. 139,912 137,795
Cement works,
quarry, colliery,
plant, etc. .. 2,964,928 2,994,103
Shares sub. co. .. 226,844 226,844
Shares other co. .. 5,265 5,265
Stock . . .. 292,938 372,482
Debtors .. .. 136,150 127,495
Cash .. .. 312 280
Intangibles .. 330,030 330,030
P and 1. debit .. 353,813 610,653
£4,449,192 £4,804,947
Altogether, a sadly different pic-
ture from that envisaged in the
prospectus issued in 1948.
Holders of the £1 shares were
last week offering their scrip at
2s. 6d., buyers 2s. 3d.
Oil Search Influence
AT the weekend about 600,000
Oil Search shares had been
sold to English interests since the
buying began two weeks ago.
(The ss. shares are now around
205.) Melbourne brokers say
the £500,000-odd it has released
is chiefly responsible for the
slight lift in market prices for
industrial equities.
Australasian Petroleum Co.
Pty., Ltd., and Island Explora-
tion Co. Pty., Ltd., in which Oil
Search, Ltd., owns a one-tenth
interest, are speeding-up their
search for oil in Papua by pro-
posing to put into operation
three Sikorsky 58 helicopters.
These will be capable of servicing
the two National 50 drilling-
plants which in 1957 will be con-
tinuously in operation.
Work is proceeding on the
three drilling-sites at Kuru,
Barikewa and Morehead.
Custom Credit Corp.
VIS7ITH a preliminary
announcement of earnings
to June 30 given to the press on
July 9, Custom Credit Corp.,
Ltd., seems to be the first Aus-
tralian co. to keep and present
its records by automation.
The co.’s hire-purchase out-
standings at the end of the year
(£21.6 million) were almost
double those at the beginning,
and profit of £632,800 compared
with £441,900 in the preceding
term.
Earnings on average capital
represented 21.1 p.c., compared
with 28.6 p.c. in the preceding
term. The div. was maintained
at 15 p.c.
Though the business is rapidly
growing in pursuit of that of
the Industrial Acceptance giant,
eaming-power is steadying be-
cause, among other things, of
the higher interest paid on
debenture-stock.
Custom Credit ss. ords. at,
9s. return 8.3 p.c. on the 15 p.c.
div.
Electric Light and Power
TN keeping with its policy of
“just us” as opposed to justice,
the N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ment is going to introduce
special legislation to acquire the
assets of the Electric Light and
“ Splendid , Podmore. Now turn to the ‘Situations
Vacant ’ page.”
Power Corp. (“the Balmain co.”)
for £2.4 million, and so deprive
the co. of its right of appeal to
the Supreme Court.
The £2,4 million was deter-
mined by Sugerman, J., pri-
marily on the undertaking’s
earning-power. The co. claims
that the assessment should be
based on replacement-cost.
Certainly it is most unlikely that
the Government’s Stamp Duties
Office would value a property
for probate purposes without
taking both factors into con-
sideration.
The debentures to be issued
by the Government will carry
p.c., which is in keeping
with current interest-rates, and
the rate will be paid back to
the date of acquisition (about
5| years ago). There are, all
told, 1,052,958 £ shares issued,
and the basic price is about 455.,
to which interest (subject to tax)
will add about 13s. The market
prices the shares around 465.
Moreheads’ Contribs.
ELDER SMITH is increasing
its offer to “certain” holders
of Moreheads’ (Brisbane)
contribs. to compensate them for
the difference between the
16s. 4d. (based on market-value
of Elder Smith shares) originally
offered and the price they paid
for the contribs. It has been said
in the byways of the sharemarket
that some of the contribs. were
bought by a concern which aimed
to do covertly what Elder Smith
has offered to do overtly—that
is, acquire control of More-
heads. This concern may not
be included among the “certain”
ones which Elder Smith proposes
to compensate.
Dirk Hartog Island
[From li. Owen]
THIS small island, at the
westernmost extremity of the
Australian mainland and about
45 miles long by 6 miles broad,
holds an historical and geological
interest quite out of proportion
to its size. Geologically, the lay
of the coastline, both to the
north and the south of Shark
Bay, intrigued me long before
September, 1955, when Wapet
arranged to drill on Dirk Hartog,
and I welcomed (B. 2/11 /’55)
the implementation of the deci-
sion then made.
Wapet, in this operation, has
approached more closely to the
ideal of selective and intense
drilling in the search of sub-
surface geological data than in
any other area explored by it,
and this is a change all to the
good, although it must be
realised that neither the pro-
vocative shoreline contours nor
the deepest of the scout-bores
drilled to date can give much
more than very indefinite clues
as to the structure and geological
history of the more deeply
buried strata.
Dirk Hartog No. 1 structure-
bore was spudded-in on October
10, 1955, as the first of three
shallow wells. It soon became
evident, however, that my early
prediction that the island
covered geological information
of interest was not in error, and,
since that date, the programme
has been extended to nine bores,
possibly with more to follow.
No. 1 well was completed at
1110 ft. at the beginning of
November, ’55; at the end of
the same month, No. 2 was
stopped at 840 ft. No. 3 well was
then started, and it finished at
896 ft. in mid-December. No. 4
was taken down to 1500 ft.,
reached early in January of this
year; to be followed immedi-
ately by No. 5 well, which, in
spite of mechanical trouble, got
down to 900 ft. on January 16.
No. 6 was spudded-in at the
beginning of February and
attained 1000 ft. op the 14th of
that month.
Working at this speed, it is not
surprising that the mud-pumping
equipment of the Failing-1500
rig developed mechanical
trouble. The ’necessary repairs,
followed by cyclonic weather,
delayed further drilling until
April 9, when No. 7 hole was
started. Here the drilling-string
“froze” in the hole and the bore
had to be abandoned with the
lower 35ft. of the string in
the hole, and after the depth of
only 288 ft. had been reached.
An offset-bore, No. 7A, was then
drilled 30ft. to the north of No.
7, but caving strata and bridging
were then encountered. At the
beginning of May, the well was
still at 300 ft., but, a, week later,
it was completed at 900 ft., and
No. 8 well was begun.
This well, also, suffered from
the “freezing” of the drillpipe
below 700 ft, and was
abandoned at 778 ft, an offset,
No. BA, being started at the
end of May. Throughout June,
shutdowns for repairs to pump-
equipment delayed drilling, but
the well was bottomed at 1200 ft.
on July 7.
Apart from the well-depths
given above, very little informa-
tion as to the geological results
obtained has been made public.
It is to be hoped that the co., as
the result of a very fine piece of
exploratory structure - drilling,
will release data, indefinite as it
may be, which throws light on
the constitution and history of
the strata underlying Denham
Sound and even west of Dirk
Hartog Island.
C.B.C. Savings Bank
ON Monday the C.B.C. Sav-
ings Bank, Ltd., an offshoot
of the Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Ltd., opened for
business at the 400 branches and
agencies of the C.B.S. It is sub-
ject to the same restrictions in
respect of the investment of its
funds as the B.N.S.W. Savings
o Continued on next page)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
IP
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Missing Friend
WOULD HAROLD AUGUSTUS GEORGE,
or any person knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED, 89 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A,
■4rr
m
m
: CK
S' f
<’■ •>»*
m *
& s
: X ■..'
?• ;• Sr
Bank accounts
for everyone!
A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts and A.N.Z. Savings
Accounts provide complete banking service.
The progressive, stream-lined policy of A.N.Z. Bank now enables
you to enjoy the advantages of both types of banking service under
the one roof. You can have a Savings Account which will return
interest from the money, deposited ... a cheque account to help
you budget more effectively and save time, money and bother when
settling household bills, etc. ... or you can enjoy the convenience •
of both accounts. Furthermore, the latest mechanised systems used
by A.N.Z. Bank enable deposits, withdrawals and other business
transactions to be effected rapidly and simply.
A.N.Z. Bank, one of the largest financial institutions in the
Commonwealth, has a world-wide organisation offering a
complete banking service anywhere in Australia or when
travelling or sending money overseas.
A*N*Z
W
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London. Agents
throughout the world. -
ANZ. 286.18
General Credits Ltd. offers
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates of annual interest rising from 3J%
for 3 months to 7|-% for 5 years and over.
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 7% com-
pounded on yearly rests with currencies
of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus available at
all branches of Commonwealth Trading
Bank of Australia, Members of the Stock
Exchange and Offices of the Company.
General Credits Ltd. is sponsor-
led by the Automobile Fire and
General Insurance Company of
Australia Limited. This is not
a Prospectus and does not con-
stitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock men-
tioned herein.
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G.
(Chairman), J. M. Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
UNDERWRITERS : ). B. WERE & SON
* 4278
Bank and the A.N.Z. Savings
Bank. These conditions ensure
a high liquidity of assets.
“S.”: Who designs Australian
goods? Sometimes it looks as if
the foreman has done it when he
had a spare moment, so it is
cheerful news for those who like
to see our goods looking good as
well as being good that Mel-
bourne “Herald” has come up
with another £20,000 for the
Chair of Fine Arts it established
in 1944. Professor Joe Burke
proposes to use most of it in pro-
moting industrial designing. We
have the artists, .architects and
designers ; what the Prof, must
find, in increasing numbers, are
the youngsters who can blend
good taste with a knowledge of
materials and a commercial
sense.
“AUSTRALIAN COASTAL
SHIPPING”
Most of the information in the
contributed article, “Australia’s
Coastal Shipping,” which was
published in The Bulletin of
June 27, 1956, had previously
appeared in a paper on Aus-
tralian coastal shipping given by
Mr. A. G. Lowndes at the last
Summer School of the Australian
Institute of Political Science. In
debate in Federal Parliament the
contents of this paper have been
widely quoted, and it is to form
a chapter of a book entitled
Australia’s Transport Crisis,
which is to be published shortly
by Angus and Robertson, Ltd.
London Airmail.
From Herbert Holman
THE Labor party has launched
its three-year propaganda
campaign with the first two of
nine intended statements of
policy.
Neither of these pamphlets,
“Personal Freedom” and
“Homes of the Future,” suggests
that a new dynamism pervades
Transport House. The mixture
is, as before, a compound of
flabby sentiments, longwinded
platitudes and woolly idealism.
Their main purport, of course,
was to form a basis for discus-
sion (with a third, on equality)
at the Blackpool Conference in
October. But if the propagandists
hoped to win converts outside
the ranks of the faithful they
have failed, not least because,
so far from vindicating their
cause, they have exposed it.
Perhaps they decided to get
the worst over first, leaving
themselves a more self-convinc-
ing run next year, when they
will deal with nationalisation, the
ownership of industry, planning
and controls, and social security.
For, as commentators were
quick to point out, the State
system, largely a product of
Socialism, is not usually compat-
ible with freedom for the
individual.
“The Times,” mincing noth-
ing, affirmed that “Labor’s con-
cern for personal freedom is
skin-deep” and went on, as did
other commentators, to recite the
various forms of tyranny under
trade-unionism —a vested interest
which the pamphlet evades.
The main point of.the plan
for housing is not new, having
been put forward by Mr.
Bevan over two years ago. It is
the compulsory transfer to local
authorities of all rent-controlled
dwellings not in owner-occupa-
tion. These number about
6,000,000. The total compensa-
tion-value would be at least
£6OOO million —more than the
nation’s annual Budget. This
would involve, in the modest
words of the pamphlet, “a
measure of local-government
reorganisation.”
Among other recommenda-
tions made are the right of a
tenant to buy his freehold (but
only if it is owned privately, not
publicly), and, for the prospec-
tive house-owner, 100 p.c.
mortgages over 30-35 years at a
rate of interest kept “as low as
possible” and subject to his con-
tributiijg to a repairs fund. In
other words, house - purchase
without individual responsibility
but with rationing and attendant
privilege.
Price Plateau
The decisions of two
nationalised boards to peg prices
are not, it seems, quite as co-
operative as they may appear at
first sight. Lord Citrine’s offer
to freeze electricity prices for
nine months is interpreted as a
shrewd, pre-emptive move. The
Central Electricity Authority is
considered a bad offender where
irresponsible wage-increases are
concerned. What Lord Citrine
has done is to act before he
could be reproached. And he
hasn’t, in fact, given much away.
The C.E.A. has merely covered
its own wage-increases by charg-
ing more for current to the area-
boards, which it has now asked
not to increase their charges.
Two days later, the Coal
Board promised to hold prices
for another twelve months. It
had just imposed a price-increase
that would cover its full costs for
another eighteen months.
Nevertheless, even if altruism
is not the essential reason for
these gestures, the psychological
value is considerable. .Last
December, the Cement Makers
voluntarily agreed to keep their
prices stable for six months. In
January, over 50 companies and
associations followed their
example. Two months later the
Transport Commission reluct-
antly agreed to a rise in freight-
charges of only half the 10 p.c.
requested. Now that the
nationalised industries are fitting
into the pattern, the prospect of
Checked prices over a reasonable
period is much firmer.
Blinding Youth
If the English Stage Society
brings out more playwrights of
the potential calibre of 26-year-
old John Osborne, our native
drama may regain its lost
virility.
Osborne’s play, “Look Back
in Anger,” is inchoate, madden-
ingly overstated and too deliber-
ately shocking to extend its
ramifications beyond the Royal
Court Theatre. Its impact,
though strong, is orgiastic and
happily forgotten.
Yet this young man clearly has
natural talent. He is profusely
iconoclastic, directing his barbs
with wit and devastating relish.
He uses only five characters. Of
these', four are young people pre-
sented, as it were, at first hand.
He has also a lively and original
sense of the stage. (An
important twist in the plot occurs
during an interval, between a
second-act curtain of violent
bitterness and a surprise third-
act opening as amusing as any-
thing in Wilde.)
The play has one damning
fault —the author is so pre-
occupied with the main character
that he has allowed him to get
out of hand. Jimmy Porter is a
young rebel, of poor family,
but a university graduate (“not
even red-brick, only white-tile”),’
married to a nice but mousy girl
of better class. He shouts abuse
at everything: church-bells, con-
ventional morality, mother-in-
law, Sunday-afternoon, li£e —
whatever, in fact, happens to
cross his mind.
Here, Osborne overlooks the
obvious truth that dramatists
must depend upon audiences
who, in turn, can have strong
feelings of their own. His
creation, though incisive of
phrase, soon becomes a selfish,
insufferable bore. When he
belittles his wife in public, the
audience’s sympathy dwindles.
When, knowing her to be preg-
nant and past suffering his
egoism, he abuses her, sympathy
vanishes altogether.
Among these lapses of taste
and wild extravaganzas there are
some deeply poignant moments,
all of them feminine. Mary Ure
plays the browbeaten wife with
saintly restraint and great
dramatic effect, especially in one
late entrance where she com-
municates her personal tragedy
without speaking a word.
Kenneth Haigh carries Jimmy’s
heavy load bravely, making the
most of the humor. Helena
Hughes triumphantly makes
light of her difficulties as the
other woman, here the wife’s
friend and doughty champion
who, perforce, becomes her sub-
stitute.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
KV'V'it
WO'
3%
y.
*tk
WL
\t*
-fc
n£*S&
* . .K’h ~*M.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free ext
booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. C. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
\ Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: IS.
Assistant Manager:
L. Shaw
F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Email, Ltd.
HPO Email’s late chairman, J. I. Carroll,
is due much of the credit for the
sound manner in which this co. has been
handled since it was formed in 1934 to
take over Electricity Meter and Manu-
facturing Co, and New System Tele-
phones.
With the object of rationalising opera-
tions, no fewer than 40 subsidiary and
associated concerns- have been drawn
together, manufacturing and selling, on
an Australia-wide basis, power-generat-
ing equipment, motors, meters and
switch - gear, refrigerators, vacuum -
cleaners, washing - machines, stoves,
heaters, gas and hot-water appliances,
radio- and television-receivers, telephone
equipment, petrol and other pumps,
razor-blades, plastics and chemicals.
Paid capital in those 22 years advanced
from around £400,000 to £2,816,016
(including £lOO,OOO 6 p.c. prefs.), the
last £1,649,325 of which was added in the
post-war decade. From earnings averag-
ing 19.5 p.c. on ord. capital shareholders
have received an average distribution of
10.5 p.c. a year since 1945. For the last
six years the distribution has been at
12| p.c., sweetened in 1955 by a one-
for-four bonus-issue financed from
accumulated share-premiums.
Its unusually-wide diversity of products
should help Email to stabilise earnings in
the face of weakening demand in some
sections of the business, although the
effect of steepening costs is not likely to
be so easily cushioned.
Still, disclosed profits have been good,
and actual earnings are probably better
than they have been stated. Last year’s
depreciation provision, up £248,530 to
£675,978, is said to be substantially more
than is allowed for tax-deduction pur-
poses, and nothing is said about the tax
provision at all. On the year, however,
another £915,119 was added to taxation
service and other provisions
(£4,291,761):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net < Divs. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
’52..440,845 6 p.c. 124 p.c; 218,425 222,420 2,712,839
Share premiums, £123,750 .. ..2,836,589
Added reserves, £61,565 .. .. 2,898,154
Added intangibles, £115,617 .. .. 2,782,537
‘ Debenture issue exes., £16,026 .. 2,766,511
’53..509,510 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 226,836 282,674 3,049,185
1 Share premiums, --£121,591 .. 3,170,776
From contingencies, £250,000' . . 3,420,776
Added intangibles, £161,702 ..3,259,074
Net additions to reserves, £268,140 . . 3,527,214
’54..560,300 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 259,244 301,056 3,828,270
Share-premiums, £665,775 .. ..4,494,045
Reserves capitalised, £532,332 ..3,961,713
Added reserves, £156,245 ..* • .. 4,117,958
Added intangibles, £148,071 .. .. 3,969,887
’55..580,484 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 342,802 237,682 4,207,569
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
The year’s £580,484 of disclosed profit is
an increase of £20,184 over the preceding
term, when, in addition to the usual
depreciation and taxation allowances,
£70,320 was written-off intangibles.
Raised in connection with the acquisition
of four new subsidiary cos. (Brooks
Robinson, Aviation Manufacturing Co.,
Club Razor Blades and Rava Industries),
£665,775 was added to share-premium
reserve, £532,332 of which was later
capitalised for the bonus-issue.
Purchase of the new subsidiaries and
sub-subsidiaries also explains most of
the other changes in reserves interlined
in the profit-and-loss table and the
expansion shown in balance-sheet figures:
_ ~ Email and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1963. 1954. 1955.
P r e f - •• £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
„ ord - 1.799,688 1,870,364 2,716,016
Reserves .. 3,049,185 3,828,270 4,207,569
Outside interests 58,527 365,318 447,309
Debentures, etc. 862,832 862,958 862,958
Creditors .. 1,833,044 2,315,729 2,338,157
Tax provision,
St®-* . • • 3,479,204 4,376,642 5,291,761
Final divs. .. 134,977 159,726 203,701
„ . , £11,317,457 £13,879,007 £16,167,471
Freehold, plant,
etc 1,413,359 1,434,941 2,238,031
Stocks .. . . 4,737,753 4,167,443 5,562,900
Debtors, etc... 4,057,383 6,076,192 6,838,370
Cash, etc. .. 1,071,273 2,055,696 895,299
Inter-co. bal-
ances • • 37,689 144,735 632,871
£11,317,457 £13,879,007 £16,167,471
* Including service and other provisions. <
Another £803,090 was added to fixed
assets; debtors, including amounts due
under hire-purchase transactions, were
£762,178 higher,; and stocks at £5,562,900
•were up £1,395,457, of which £554,609
was on account of the new cos. Cash,
drawn ’bn for £1,160,397, and £313,320
added to share-capital took care of most
of the outlay.
Influenced by the trend towards longer
interest-rates, the market at present prices
the ss. ords. at 11s. (14s. 9d. a year
ago), to return 5.7 p.c. on the basis of a
12i p.c. div. At 19s. 6d. the 6 p.c. prefs.
yield 6.2 p.c.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd. (Q.)
TIJORMED in 1912 to take over existing
-*■ Queensland sugar interests, Fairy-
mead Sugar Co., Ltd., is both grower and
miller of sugar-cane. The co.’s activities
were extended to include Solomon
Islands’ copra - production with the
acquisition of the Malaita Co. in 1936.
Other assets include a Hereford stud-farm
in N.S.W. With profits dependent on the
vagaries of crops and weather, wide
fluctuations in earnings have occurred,
but the co. is well in front, having
accumulated reserves of more than £l£
million. Paid-up capital consists of
750,000 f.-p. £1 shares, of which 250,000
were issued at a 10s. premium in 1952. .
Actual production-figures aren’t
disclosed, but a smaller crop, as well as
increased expenses, resulted in lower
net earnings for the year ended
December, ’55. The “Islands Dept.”
again provided a “substantial” but
unstated contribution to profit.
After allowing depreciation on sugar-
mills, plant and “Island assets” amount-
ing to £45,596 (down £7896), profit was
£53,363 lower at £131,655. Undisclosed
provision for taxation, and additions to
replacement and insurance reserves
totalling £37,639 had been made before
arriving at the quite satisfactory figure
given for earnings:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 11,647 8 p.c. = 40,000 781.913
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 906,913
'Added replacement reserve, £36,432 .. 943,345
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 945,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964,434
Added replacement reserve, £37,628.. 1,002,062
To insurance reserve, £2508 ..1,004,562
1953.. 137,618 12 p.c.= 90,000 47,618 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve £51,316.. 1,103,496
To insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 1,105,996
1954.. 185,018 14 p.c. = 105,000 80,018 1,186,014
Added replacement reserve, £37,224 .. 1,223,238
To insurance reserve, £416 .. .. 1,223,653
1955. . 131,655 12 p.c. = 90,000 41,655 1,265,308
* Includes replacement reserve, £562,231 at
31/12/’55.
The 12 p.c. div. (down from 14 p.c.) was
met without difficulty, earnings represent-
ing 17.6 p.c. on paid capital, as against
24.6, 18.3, 12.6, 2.3, and 20.6 p.c. over
the previous five years. Reserves bene-
fited by £41,655 of the profit, and includ-
ing replacement and insurance funds
amount to a comfortable £1,265,308.
Following a smaller turnover’ book-
debts were down £147,388 at £648,682,
but creditors, including final div.,’ were
£82,783 greater at £863,734. Capital-
expenditure has added £182,566 to
factories and plant, where some
reorganisation and modemisatibn is being
effected. Current assets, although slightly
lower, still account for almost 35 p.c. of
total assets: —
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £759,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves . . .. 1,052,180 1,186,014 1,265,308
Creditors, etc-.* .. 513,474 720,951 818,734
Final div. .. 45,000 60,000 45,000
£2,360,654 £2,716,965 £2,879,042 ,
Estates .. .. 501,425 464,121 529,769^
Factories, etc. . . 1,095,739 1,158,666 1,341,232
Livestock .. .. 55,988 54,173 57,682
Stocks, etc. .. 250,000 230,948 288,839
Book debts .. 432,463 796,070 648,682
Cash, etc. .. 25,031 12,838
£2,360,654 £2,716,965 £2,879,042
* Includes provision for taxation.
Prospects for the present term are
promising. Crushing was expected to
commence early this month, larger crops
with a higher crop-yield being expected.
Profit-margins have been improved by a
penny price-rise per pound of sugar on
the Australian market, and the overseas
price-formula is unchanged. Improve-
ments to plant and transportation
facilities will, it is hoped, reduce costs
at Fairymead as well as improve over-all
efficiency.
The f.-p. £1 shares are bringing around
425. 6d., to return 5.6 p.c. from a con-
tinued 12 p.c. dividend. Net tangible
backing is strong at 535. 9d.
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
OECORD sales have provided James
Hardie Asbestos with another success-
ful year, although the increased turnover
was more than offset by rising material-
costs and wage-rates. Listed on ’Change
only five years ago, the shares have been
popular with investors, bonus-issues and
good dividends justifying their support.
The revaluation of land and buildings
during the past year resulted in the bonus-
issue of 632,500 £1 shares, in the propor-
tion of one for two. This followed a
one-for-ten capitalisation (£114,917) in
1954.
, The building-trades take most of the
co.’s products, which include flat and
corrugated asbestos-sheeting, guttering,
high-pressure water-pipe, terra-cotta
roofing - tiles and brake - linings.
Abnormal rain in N.S.W. and Queens-
land affected the rate of house-building,
as did tightening financial conditions;
however, the directors report that demand
for the co.’s products was well main-
tained, production in some cases being
insufficient to meet the demand. New
factories are proposed to boost the output
of high-pressure pipes, and increased
supplies of brake-linings are expected to
follow the completion of premises now
under construction. Economies resulting
from improved manufacturing-methods
partly cushioned the impact of rising
raw-material cost's.
Profit for the year to March, ’56, was
down £79,220 at £359,029, after allowing
£340,195 (down £32,970) for depreciation
and £403,245 (down £37,757) for taxa-
tion. Profit is stated after the contribu-
tion of £101,860 to employees’ assurance
and retirement funds, an increase of
£65,000 over last year’s allowance. A
par issue is proposed to enable £lOO,OOO
of these funds to be invested in the co.’s
shares. Bearing this in mind, the accounts
disclose a satisfactory year’s trading:
Parent Co.
Mar. ’ To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £
Added reserves, £3248 .. .. 433,620
1951. .364,605 10 p.c. = 76,551 288,054 721,674
Consolidated Figures.
Added reserves, £3334 .. .. 1,910,253
Reserves capitalised, £382,714 .. 1,527,539
1952. .200,403 8 p.c. = 91,929 108,474 1,636,013
Added reserves, £3451 .. .. 1,639,464
1953. .293,835 8 p.c. = 92,000 201,835 1,841,299
Reserves appear on acquisitions of
assets, £6913 1,848,212
Added reserves, £78,572 .. .. 1,926,784
1954. .301,777 124 p.c. =143,750 158,027 2,084,811
Reserves capitalised, £114,917.. .. 1,969,894
Added reserves, £100,046 .. 1 .. 2,069,940
1955. .438,249 15 p.c. =189,750 248,499 2,318,439
Assets revalued, £728,822 .. .. 3,047,261
Reserves capitalised, £632,500 .. 2,414,761
Reduction in reserves, £3244 .. 2,411,517
1956. .359,029 10 p.c. =189,750 169,279 2,580,796
t Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’56.
A cautious dividend-policy has been fol-
lowed, and for the first time in five years
shareholders will share more than half
the profit, receiving £189,750, or 52.6 p.c.,
while reserves benefit to the extent of
£169,279. Earning-rate on the increased
capital was 18.9 p.c., equal to 28.3 p.c. on
the old basis, agd 34.6, 26.5 and 25.5 p.c.
back to Shareholders’ funds
•returned 8 p.c., against 12.2 p.c. in the
previous year, the revaluation-reserve
exhibiting a net gain of £96,322 after
the bonus-issue.
While a large part of the £825,835 added
last year to fixed assets (shown in total
only) is due to the revaluation, capital-
expenditure for the period is described
by the co. as “heavy and considerable.”
The rise of £222,799 in the overdraft, now
£367,979, together with a drop of £81,159
(to £70,144) in the holding of cash and
bonds, reflects this expenditure, as well
as the growth of debtors (up £65,152 at
£1,063,291) and stocks (up £399,195 to
£2,857,869):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,150,000 £1,265,000 £1,897,500
Reserves .. .. 2,084,811 2,818,439 2,580,796
Mortgage . . .. 300,000 300,000 300,000
Overdraft .. 145,180 367,979
Creditors, etc. .. 1,040,587 1,201,067 1,200,314
Tax provision .. 614,496 774,627 866,747
Final dividend .. 86,250 94,875 94,875
£5,276,144 £6,099,188 £7,308,211
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. .. 2,231,209 2,161,504 2,987,339
Shares .. .. 158,933 231,119 231,119
Stocks .. .. 1,736,023 2,458,674 2,857,869
Debtors . . .. 868,160 998,139 1,063,291
Cash, bonds .. 183,370 151,303 70,144
Goodwill .. .. 98,449 98,449 98,449
£5,276,144 £6,099,188 £7,308,211
With reserves standing at £2,580,796,
paid capital provides only 42.4 p.c. of
shareholders’ funds, which in turn com-
prise 61.3 p.c. of the balance-sheet totals.
The div. of 10 p.c. (1 p.c; tax-free) is
equal to last term’s 15 p.c. on the pre-
bonus capital, or 16.5 p.c. on the 1954
holding, prior to the bonus-issue in that
year. Net tangible backing for the shares
amounts to 465. 2d., last sales bringing
425., to return 4.8 p.c.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
A LIFT in the ord.-div. rate (up 24- p.c.
*** to 174 p.c.) and disclosure of a
surplus of over half-a-million, resulting
from revaluation of the co.’s freehold
buildings, sent the price of this retailer’s
ord. 'scrip up from 455. to 70s. on
Melbourne ’Change earlier this year.
Trading in the shares at present is around
565. for a yield of 6.3 p.c. on a 174 p.c.
div. basis.
A writing-up in the books of the same
freeholds, an 11-story structure (put up
around 1928, and recently extensively
renovated) at the busy Bourke- and
Elizabeth-street intersection, opposite
the G.P.0., and a branch-store at
Prahran, was source of a one-for-two
bonus-issue of the £1 shares in 1951, and
there were hopes of a repetition of the
performance this year. The subsequent
disenchantment (as reflected in prices on
’Change) is explained by recent economic
trends and to the fact that the annual
meeting passed without any suggestion by
the co. that part of the surplus might be
capitalised for shareholders’ benefit.
The chairman did say that recent take-
overs had prompted the co. to present
shareholders, in their own interests, with
a better idea of the true value of their
investment. The possibility of a bonus-
issue was thus not ruled-out, but, no
doubt, in the directors’ minds, a lot will
depend on the way business shapes during
the current term.
Established in 1911, London Stores
trades in the medium-grade tailoring,
mercery and sporting-goods fields on the
basis of a low profit-margin on volume-
turnover. Not since the post-World-War-I
boom has the co. done so well as
over the last decade. Average return of
earnings on ordinary capital, after allow-
ing for pref. divs., was 21.5 p.c., and in
the last .few years the co. has recorded
profits considerably better than average.
In the 1955-56 term, a “comparatively


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
C.B.C.
SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
IS NOW OPEN
«
The C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited is now open at all branches and
agencies of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited in
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits guaranteed by the parent company
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
eaS v” one in which sales reached
a new “high,” after charging
£3115 (up £317) depreciation and
£56721 taxation (not stated in
1954-55), net earnings of the
parent co. were £8425 higher at
£96,472:-
Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 12* p.c. serves, serves.*
1951..64.294 9000 32,500 22,794 299,966
10 p.c.
73,215 9000 30,000 34,215 334,181
1953 66,777 9000 30.000 27,777 361,958
From tot reserve, £11,987.. 373,945
12* p.c.
1954 .76,891 9000 37,500 30,391 404,336
15'p.c.
1955 .88,047 9000 45,000 34,047 438,3.83
Tax overprovided, £175 .. 438,558
Assets revalued, £563,762 .. 1,002,320
To staff fund, £15,000 .. 987,320
17* p.c.
' 1956.-96,472 9000 52,500 34,972 1,022,292
♦After deduoting goodwill (now
£16,659).
Because of the nature of its
business the co. doesn’t expect
that sales will be greatly affected
by the tighter trading-conditions
which have developed in recent
months. Its chief concern is
over increasing costs.
There is a comfortingly solid
appearance about finances:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £100,060 £lOO,OOO
Ord. ' .. .. 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. •• 445,042 1,038,951
Mortgages.. .. 48,000 32,000
Creditors .. .. 53,123 27,301
Staff fund .. .. 15,640
Tax provision .. 48,708 56,721
Final div. .. 30,000 30,000
£1,034,873 £1,600,613
Freehold . .. 638,518 1,202,280
Pknt, fittings, etc. 57,342 54,507
Shares subsidiary . 4,188 4,188
Stocks, etc. .. 197,870 206,455
Debtors .. .. 12,926 11,964
Cash, etc. .. 107,370 104,560
Intangibles .. 16,659 16,659
£1,034,873 £1,600,613
Up £6851 on the previous term
to £204,721, stocjc is “well
bought, turning fast and con-
servatively valued.” Conducted
mainly on a cash basis, the busi-
ness carries only a small amount
of debtors, which were further
reduced last year to £11,964.
Another £16,000 was wiped-
off the mortgage debt, and the
amount due to creditors almost
halved. At the end of the year
working - capital was £6982
stronger at £193,317; floating
liabilities were covered about
2\ times by liquid assets. Against
total external liabilities of
£161,662 shareholders’ funds,
swollen by the writing-up of the
freeholds, amounted to
£1,438,951.
Based on the parent co.’s
balance-sheet, net tangible asset
backing for the £1 prefs. is £l4
4s. sd. and the ords. 88s. 2d.
A subsidiary co., London
Supply, Ltd., formerly the ,old
London Stores Cafe, Ltd., ceased
operations some years ago. Its
chief asset is £4700 of Consols.
On August 31, 1955, it had a
debit balance on its p. and 1.
account of £8531.
New Broken Hill Consol.
STEPPING more into its
stride, this big lead-zinc pro-
ducer at the southern end of the
line of lode at the Barrier, in
western N.S.W., mined 531,447
tons of ore in 1955, approxi-
mately 10 p.c. more than in the
previous year, and not much
short of an aimed-for output of
540,000 tons.
The bigger production offset
the slightly lower grade of ore
encountered, and, with better
prices for metal, net profit shot
up £5tg.349,789 to £5tg.947,063:
Dec., Profit. Dividends, t Reserves.
1952. .558,020 30 p.c. = 180,695 3,772,141
Net unexp. addition, £15,259 3,787,400
From tax reserve, £36,987 3,824,387
1953. .413,262 30 p.c. = 184,898 4,052,751
Net unexp. addition, £3848 4,056,599
1954. .597,274 60 p.c. - 384,454 4,269,419
Share-premiums, £199,476 ..4,468,895
Unexplained addition, £24,930 4,493,825
1955. . 947,063 90 p.c. = 611,405 4,829,483
f Rate of div. is that declared, but amount
is shown after deducting English tax.
* Sterling.
Written after allowing £287,822
(up £11,477) for development,
£330,000 (up £23,000) for depre-
ciation, and £903,386 (up
£359,426) taxation, the £947,063
(all figures in sterling) repre-
sented 80.5 p.c. on paid capital
of £1,176,244, as against 53 p.c.
in 1954, 36.8 p.c. in 1953 and
49.8 p.c. in 1952. Lifted from
Is. 6d. to 3s. in 1954, the div.
was upped last year to 4s. 6d. a
share. A nominal 90 p.c. on
capital, the div. is subject to
United Kingdom income tax at
the rate of Bs. 6d. in the £,
which reduces the distribution
to the Australian shareholder,
after allowing for exchange at
the current rate, to 64.6 p.c.
Average rate of production on
a daily basis rose from 2025 tons
in 1954 to 2252 tons last term,
and would have been higher but
for delays to the completion of
the underground crusher. How
mine-output and its assay-values
compared with earlier years is
shown in the table:
Ore Grade
Produced, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1953 .. 405,629 8.8 2.0 13.7
1954 . . 482,058 9.4 2.1 14.4
1955 .. 531,447 8.9 2.0 13.8
Ore milled amounted to 1 a total
of 530,044 tons (up 46,583 tons),
of which 342,480 tons was
treated in the co.’s own mill, and
187,564 \ tons in the Zinc Cor-
poration mill. Completion of
the second section of the surface-
mill towards the end of last year
will enable the co. to treat the
whole of its projected ore-
production, and with the in-
creased flotation-capacity avail-
able an improvement in the
grade of products is expected.
Lead and zinc concentrates
produced were 58,254 tons (up
1690 tons) and 133,695 tons (up
6515 tons) respectively. The
lead concentrates contained
42,767 tons (up 1135 tons) lead
and 848,3500 z. (up 39,9440 z.)
silver. Actual sales of recover-
able lead, silver and zinc metal
were:
Zinc Con-
Lead, Silver, eentrates,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1953.. 31,996 695,525 97,828
1954.. 36,198 749,656 117,874
1955.. 41,914 787,030 117,811
The improvement in metal
prices is shown in the following
comparison of averages (quoted
in £stg.):
Year
Dec.’3l, Lead. Zinc.
1953 .. £9O 3 0 £75 3 0
1954 .. 96 4 0 78 5 0
1955 . . 105 17 7 90 13 9
Ore reserves developed during
the year showed a further
increase of 200,000 tons below
No. 16 level. Reserves at
December 31 were calculated
at:
f Assay — N
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above No.
16 level .. 900,000 5.1 1.1 15.4
Below No.
16 level . . 2,100,000 13.6 3.4 10.5
Total .. 3,000,000 11.0 2.7 12.0
Capital - expenditure during
1955 amounted to £435,921 on
mine - development, including
shaft-sinking, and £313,395 on
machinery, buildings, etc., a
total of £749,316:
1954. 1955.
Cash. Govt, bonds £1,444,302 £2,449,095
Debtors . . . . 284,033 124,497
Stocks .. .. 522,598 743,277
£2,250,933 £3,316,869
Less liabilities* .. 1,633,506 2,777,877
Net current assets £617,427 £538,992
Machinery, etc .(less
depreciation) .. 1,894,004 1,877,606
Mine expenditure
account.. .. 3,855,448 4,291,369
Paid capital .. 1,126,375 1,176,244
Reserves .. .. 4,269,419 4,829,483
All amounts shown are sterling.
* Includes provision for taxation and
dividends.
Cash and securities increased
£1,004,793, debtors were down
£159,536, and stocks were
£211,679 higher. Owing mainly
'to increased provisions for taxa-
tion and dividends, the surplus
of current assets over liabilities
was £78,435 slimmer at £538,992.
With its eye on overseas metal
prices, the Australian share-
market prices the ss. shares at
495. (455. a year ago on smaller
dividend) for an immediate
return of 6.6 p.c.
Amalgamated Wireless
•DEVALUATION of freeholds
and share-premiums will pro-
vide the one-for-one tax-
free bonus-issue from A.W.A.
Revaluation will provide
£1,003,144 and premiums
£109,787. The total bonus-issue
of £1,112,931 will raise paid
capital to £2,225,863. Directors
say that shareholders should
expect an appropriate reduction
in dividend on the doubled
capital. Present rate of div. is
15 p.c., and results for 1955-56
“are at least comparable” with
those of the previous year.
To help finance TV activities,
an issue of £741,954 of regis-
tered unsecured p.c. notes is
being offered to ord.-share-
holders, and £31,183 to
employees. The notes will be con-
verted into ords.on June 30,1962.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
At the Navy League Ball at the Royale
Ballroom (shorn of a little of its usual
ceremonial owing to the Governor’s
absence through illness) gay little fairy-
lights were a feature of the decorations ;
there were white and colored urns filled
with greenery and pale-green hydrangeas,
silver candelabra with crimson candles,
and white urns filled with crimson
camellias, poinsettias and greenery. On
each table, a sailor’s cap bore the-number,
and vivid-blue stars and red camellias
were used as decoration.
President of the ball committee Mrs.
Arthur Laver, with her husband, received
the official guests, who included Capt.
and Mrs. A. McNicol, Commodore and
Mrs. Neil Mackinnon, Navy Secretary
T. J. Hawkins and Mrs. Hawkins, Mrs.
Robin Byrne (daughter of the Governor
and Lady Brooks), Colonel R. H. Sprag-
gett, Mr. and Mrs. John Buckland, Lieut.
Jonathan Cox and Lieut. John Groves.
Mrs. Laver’s lovely gown was of zircon-
blue satin made with a swathed bodice
and very full skirt. Mrs. Byrne’s choice
was pale-gold silk-organza patterned in
tiny pink roses and green leaves. It had
a double flounce at the hem of the wide
skirt and was worn with a matching stole.
Mrs. R. S. Wellby, wife of Rear-Admiral
Wellby, wore a sheath-gown of oyster
satin-brocade. Mrs. Hugh Syme’s grey-
blue satin frock was short and very full
and finished with a bow on one hip. Mrs.
Bill Wakefield teamed a full skirt of white
tulle with a matching strapless top
embellished with white guipure-lace. Mrs.
P. Nicholas wore white chiffon pin-
spotted with black and splashed with
pink roses.
Mrs. Fred Thomas chose an unusual
gown, which had an off-shoulder bodice
of black chiffon, with the back of the
skirt matching, while the front was of
white chiffon and finished with a swathed
drapery of tangerine chiffon.
Mrs. Bruce Wenzel’s Grecian-cut gown
was of pale-primrose chiffon ; Mrs. Sam
Pierce’s blonde guipure-lace gown had
the pattern outlined with moonstone-
sequins. Mrs. Charles Reid’s strapless
gown was of flower-printed chiffon.
Mrs. Rendall Collins wore white tulle
with a strapless guipure-lace bodice,
cuffed with black velvet.
* ☆ *
Simplicity, combined with smartness,
was the keynote of the showing of spring
and summer fashions by Ecstasy, and it
achieved its most attractive expression
in the sheath-frock.
It was sometimes seen in the “Oriental
look,” straight and slim, with the skirt
slit at the sides and with a high
Mandarin-collar. The new Empire-
bodice appeared in another version of
it, the high bust-line emphasised with
swathings of contrasting material and
color, the swathings finished in long ends
to the hem of the skirt. Added to a
sheath as slim as a reed, but draped
attractively to one side, a huge butterfly-
bow was placed on one hip. Another
additional touch to a sheath-dress was a
tiny jacket, nipped-in at the waist. Yet
another variation was a loose hip-length
jacket and another a full-length slim
coat lined with the material of the frock
—these long coats are reversible.
Cotton will be used extensively this
spring and summer. A glowing satin-
finish to cotton is high fashion in Paris
as well as New York. The sea-island
cottons seen in this collection were rich
and vibrant with color. There were
Paisley designs overprinted with gold to
give glitter to the fabric. Flower-prints
are back again, lovelier than ever. Here,
again, is seen the influence of the East,
but there was also a trend towards the
dark flower-prints.
A highlight among the many floral
frocks was one in the new opaque nylon
called “taslan.” A deep mauve was the
background for huge clusters of pale-
green hydrangeas. And just as lovely
was the coat-and-dress ensemble of
“taslan” in which pale-lilac flowers were
sprinkled over a background of dark
grey. The reversible coat was lined with
the pale lilac of the dress. “Gold Coast”
was the name given to a gold-and-white-
embroidered cotton sheath-frock, sleeve-
less and slit at the side-seams of the
skirt. The hip-length jacket featured the
new high Mandarin-collar. A gold faille
sheath-frock, embroidered with black,
and with black edging the square neck,
had a series of kick-pleats set into the
skirt just above the hem. Over this
frock was worn a black French cotton;
velvet theatre-coat with wide bell-
sleeves.
In several designs tucking has been
used to great advantage. “Muted Rose,”
a frock for a very special occasion, was
made of crystal-organza over taffeta. A
fan of pleats at the front of the skirt
broke from a myriad of fine horizontal
tucks in the bodice, and the fluted skirt
fell from a hip-yoke. “Elegance” was
a satin-cotton cocktail-dress in the new
color called “thin cream.” An unusual
sunburst of darts gave the frock shape ;
it also had pushed-up sleeves, a high,
slightly-draped neckline and one tiny
brilliant ornament on the side of the
skirt. A short flower-splashed nylon
frock called Printemps had a very full
swirling skirt, straight and full at the
back and in front a wide flounce finished
with bows. Ming-green, blonde, Chinese-
blue, clover-leaf-green, camellia-pink and
poppy-pink were among the lovely
vibrant colors chosen by Ecstasy.
■ft ☆ ☆
To celebrate the centenary of Royal
Melbourne Hospital the board of
management and the medical and general
staffs will hold a ball at the Palais de
Danse, St. Kilda, on August 9. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, has given
his patronage,-and president of the com-
mittee is Mrs. Lytton Stephens' Tickets
at 355. each may be obtained from
Sister Henderson (FJ9441, Ext. 324),
Mrs. Ronald Rome (8Y3414), Mrs.
Desmond Hollywood (8Y3478), and
Mrs. W. Murray Cox (BL7007).
Vivacious young English actress Jane
Martin will play the soubrette roles in
J.C.W.’s forthcoming season of Gilbert
and Sullivan. Jane was the third singer
to play the lead in “Carousel” during its
long run at Drury Lane, and she also did
the provincial tour with it, her perform-
ances totalling over 100. Photo by David
Sim (London).
On her 21st birthday Juliet, only
daughter of Mr. Hubert Black, of
Toorak, and the late Mrs. Black,
announced her engagement to Clive, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. Clive McFarlane, of
Penola (S.A.). At the cocktail-party for
about 50 given by her father and step-
mother to celebrate both events Juliet
wore a dark-grey taffeta frock. After the
cocktail-party they all went on to
Claridge’s to dine and dance.
* ☆ ☆
Hydrangeas, stocks, carnations and
crimson poinsettias, backed with green
foliage, made beautiful the foyer and
ballroom of No. 9 Darling-street when
the Yorick Club held its annual At
Home. This is Melbourne’s second-oldest
club. David Syme is the president, and
before going on to Darling-street Mr.
and Mrs. Syme gave a large dinner-party
at their home, Mrs. Syme wearing a
gown of lilac and silver lace over white
organdie and sparkling with crystal bead-
ing. Lady Snow was at the dinner-party
and the Yorick Club reception ; she wore
a graceful gown of white chiffon.
Assisting the president at ,the At Home
were hon. treasurer Mr. C. W. Parry and
Mrs. Parry, Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Staley,
and secretary G. A. Todner and Mrs.
Todner (she wearing a gown of black
chiffon with a black and beaten-
silver stole). Mrs. William Dodd (the
president’s sister), who also gave a dinner-
party before going on to the club, was in
black moire faille.
SYDNEY
Festivities for two more national days,
the Argentine and the French, were the
biggest social events during the week.
Otherwise the social scene was more
humdrum than hectic. Many people
were more interested in the Buckingham
Palace Garden Party, at which so many
Australian girls were presented to the
Queen, than in events at home.
Prudence Pratten, by all accounts,
wore one of the most striking dresses
to the party, a navy-blue taffeta dress
with a harem-skirt and a big white
organdie collar and a tiny flowered-hat.
Her mother, Mrs. Eric Pratten, wore a
white silk dress patterned with green
roses and designed by Maggy Rouff.
Other debs who were presented
included (the order is alphabetical) Nona
Anderson (Potts Point), Irene Bartley
(Bellevue Hill), Helen Crane (Pymble),
Marie de Baun (Mosman), Betty Emerson
(Co ogee), Barbara Flynn (Bellevue Hill),
Jennifer Goulston (Wollstonecraft),
Elaine Heath (Albury), Joan Hood
(Northbridge), Margaret Jackson (Woll-
stonecraft), Beverley and Lynette Mc-
Gregor (Manly), Jennie Mackenzie
(Mosman), Susan Marks (Mosman),
Anne O’Loughlin (Wollstonecraft),
Robin Rawson (Cremorne), Phyllis Rowe
(Lindfield) and Dorothy Wren (Nyngan).
This is poetess Nancy Cato (Mrs.
Eldred Norman), of Hope Valley (S.A.),
who is on her way to Italy and England
on a six-months’ tour. Educated at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College in Adelaide,
Nancy Cato was for some time a
journalist in the S.A. city. She names her
main interests as “reading and writing,
book-collecting, bird-watching, water-
color-sketching and driving anything from
a jeep to a blitz-buggy.” For a time she
was associate-editor of Flexmore Hud-
son’s magazine “Poetry,” and she edited
the 1950 “Jindyworobak Anthology.” In
that same year the Lyrebird Writers,
Sydney, published her first book of poems,
“The Darkened Window,” and last year
the Commonwealth Literary Fund
approved for publication her second
book of poems, “The Dancing Bough,”
which is now in the hands of Angus and
Robertson. Photo by her cousin, Jack
Cato.
Sydney’s camellia-lovers turned-up in
force for the sherry-party which opened
the Camellia Grove show at David Jones’
men’s store, organised by Mrs. Gregory
Blaxland in aid of the Bush Book Club.
Professor and Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse
were there, of course—any camellia-show
would be incomplete without them. Mrs.
Waterhouse’s exhibit covered one wall
and allied the delicacy of the pink and
white blooms to the delicacy of early
19th-century coffee-tables brought from
her own home. Miss Barbara Knox was
present, also Lady Lloyd Jones, Mr. and
Mrs. B. P. McFarlan, Mrs. Tony Inglis,
Mrs. Hector Livingston and Mrs. Roy
McCaughey (whose garden at her Bay
View home, Hopton Lodge, is to contain
eventually every type of camellia).
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Stephen and Lady Holmes, who will
be leaving us before the end of the year
after nearly four years in Australia, were
guests-of-honor at a reception by the
Royal Empire Society during the week!
Their future plans include finding a house,
probably in Kent, where Sir Stephen can
follow his hobby—he says he is “mildly
interested in archaeology.” There were
some pretty hats to be seen at the recep-
tion, including Mrs. Alex Morgan’s black,
fluffy platter, Lady Holmes’s own small
white hat with its black feather curling
round the ear, and Mrs. H. S. McKellar’s
confection of pink tulle and roses, a spun-
sugar promise of spring.
# ☆ ☆
“Photograph me, I’m an engine!” was
one of the sayings of the week. Who said
it? Also, “Give me a couple of yards of
sacking and I will still hold my own as
one of the best-dressed women in the
world.” And thirdly, “She’s my puss-in-
boots and I love her madly.”
It was Marshal Bulganin who claimed
to be an engine. He was rowing across
a lake at the time. It was at the party
where, according to the headlines,
“Khrushchev was rude.”
Lady Docker is the person confident
that she could look well in sacking. She
would not be the first. Hessian was quite
the thing not so long ago —hessian
trimmed with walnut-shells ; and many
people looked quite well in it, oddly
enough. Lady Docker’s gold-plated
Daimler has arrived in Sydney for the
World Fair, by the way.
Sir Laurence Olivier it was who said
Vivien Leigh was his puss-in-boots. They
are expecting their first child in
November, and it is Ho be called
Katherine if it is a girl. “We haven’t
bothered to think about a boy’s name,”
said Vivien.
☆ ☆ ☆
How effective Arctic-fox is for theatre-
going! There is nothing to equal it.
Noted at the opening night of “Witness
for the Prosecution” (the Elizabethan
Theatre) Mrs. lan Jacoby and Mrs.
Charles Parsons, both looking glamorous
in their snowy capes.
Saw there, too, Mr. Hugh Hunt for the
first time since his return from England,
where he has signed-up four more Aus-
tralian actors to accompany Leo McKern
when he comes out to play in Douglas
Stewart’s “Ned Kelly.” (Incidentally,
Sydney is to see “Ned Kelly” in
September at the Elizabethan.) Leo
McKern is at present working in a lead-
ing role with Ann Todd and Michael
Redgrave in the film “Time Without
Pity,” and a notable movie-future is pre-
dicted for him.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Society of Arts and Crafts
exhibition promises to be something
extra-special this year, as it celebrates the
50th anniversary of the foundation of
the society. Opening next Monday
(July 23), the exhibition will include work
done by many of its members over the
past half-century and now being lent
for the occasion by the National Art
Gallery and the Museum of Applied
Arts and Sciences. Loan-exhibits
include jewellery, sculpture and pottery
from Victoria, wood-carving by Miss
Willes, musical instruments lent by Rev.
W. M. Holliday, pottery and stonework
by Mr. P. Rushforth, stained-glass by
Mr. H. S. Huntly, and lapidary-work by
tfie Lapidary Club. The exhibition will,
of course, be held in the Art Gallery of
the Education Department, which has
been granted free to the society for its
annual exhibition since 1916.
☆ it ☆
Something very unusual for Sunday,
August 5, will be the “Sneak Preview” of
a film at Legion House. Organised by the
auxiliary for the Catholic Welfare Bureau,
the preview will be preceded by sherry in
the lounge at 7.30 p.m. and followed by
supper.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was Courtesy Week in Sydney, and
members of the Chamber of Commerce
went around searching for courteous
people, eager to present them with £1
notes, and often coming back with the
money unpresented- because they could
not find any. However, as conductors
on trams have been instructed to tell
children to stand up for adults, we will
probably find a great improvement in
this respect, for most children do not
want to sit down. They only have to be
told once and they not only spring up
but all their companions do so, too, so
that the embarrassed adult sometimes
finds herself the only “sittee” in a full
compartment.
☆ ☆ ☆
Note from Peter Barclay, who is one
of the workers for the Younger Set of the
Society for Crippled Children: “She sails
again! Ful| steam ahead goes the
Younger Set assisting the Strathallan
Home for Crippled Children at Turra-
murra. This time the decks are ready
for ‘Winter Wevels’ (we said ‘Wev6ls’) at
St. Ives Masonic Hall. Be aboard! Sail-
ing-time is 8-o’clock Saturday night the
21st July. Tickets available from Jill
Lowe (JY1036) and Jill Phelps (JM3436).
Remember by coming to this dance you
will help the Younger Set of ‘S. S. Strath-
allan’ to help the Crippled Children to
dance someday soon.”


/Qfa
The word,
for Brandy
since 1858
SPECIAL HOSPIT
*
Wwri’ft
mm
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
TST.46.I*
Divorce Notices
TO JOHN ALEXANDER HILL formerly
of Cottesloe W.A. Address now unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife JOAN
WINEFRED HILL has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of your adultery
with HILDA BEKSMAN and seeks the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 27 of the Matrimonial Causes and
Personal Status Code 1948 If you desire
to defend such proceedings you must file
your defence at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth Western Australia
within forty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
the 4th day of July, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO D’ARCY IRVINE late of Cronulla.
—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES HENRY
CLARKE TELFER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2957 on the ground that
you have committed adultery with
CLIVENE ISABEL LILLIAN TELFER his
wife If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 24th day of August 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. WILSON & THOMSON,
Solicitors, of 155 King Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN VALENTINE BOWMAN late
of Cobar in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MENA
BOWMAN has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 210 of 1956 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act, 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th day of
September 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from S. A.
TOCCHINI, Solicitor, 295 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
HOLDEN UTILITY TOPS AUSTRALIAN SALES BECAUSE
Holden gives you
the best combination of
power, economy, value
Owners from all over Australia have
reported that Holden Utility gives you the
ideal combination of 6 cylinder power with
30 miles to the gallon economy and excep-
tional dependability. Proof of Holden’s
better value is the fact that during 1955
official Holden Utility registrations were
four times those of the next most popular
model.
How well Holden fulfils all claims made
for it is shown by this letter from Mr. C. W.
Knott of Haberfield, N.S.W. He writes:
“I purchased a Holden Utility ... in
February 1952 . . . My occupation is a
Master Butcher. In the four years I have
had this vehicle ADN767, it has been used
for carting meat, delivering orders, and
buying at country centres.
“The first two years it was used on
country roads from Wagga, to such
adjacent towns as Albury, Junee, Tumut,
Leeton, Griffith . . . this vehicle has done
work on all types of roads, country and
city. At present I have 39,000 miles on my
speedo, and have never had the head off,
not even to adjust tappets, the only replace-
ment being one set of spark plugs.. I
consider this a mighty effort, and thought
it my duty to pass on such information.”
There’s no doubt that you get the best
combination of power, economy, depend-
ability and value in Holden Utilities. Let
your Holden dealer prove it on an actual
demonstration. In view of the increasing
demand for Holden, may we suggest that
you see him as soon as possible. ,
<3231
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
4fr registered trade mark
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
,LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
Convenient hire purchase arrangements available through GMAC —General Motors own hire
purchase company. ‘Air Chief is the only Car Radio approved by GMH engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout_Australia_
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Malcuzynski
So long as private entre-
preneurs are content to depend
on the hired elderly piano of
uncertain temperament and
none-too-attractive tone, then so
long will the virtuosos they
present at Sydney Town Hall be
robbed of the full fruits of their
artistry. It happened again last
week, the visiting Polish pianist
being the sufferer.
Despite the limitations of the
instrument, however, Malcuzyn-
ski demonstrated again and again
his wonderful fluency, his com-
mand of tone-color and of
massive sonorities, his refine-
ment of style and, above all, the
singing quality he can sustain.
The first recital opened with
Bach’s Chromatic Fantasy and
Fugue in D Minor, and his play-
ing of this and of the Handel
Variations by Brahms was im-
mediate proof that he is by no
means merely a Chopin speci-
alist. The three strands of the
Fugue were woven into a musical
texture of strength and beauty,
the preceding Fantasy haying
be6n simply cast and less strictly
mathematical than is sometimes
presented. The pianist built-up
the huge variation-structure from
the disarmingly simple eight-
bar theme with some fire, and
capped it with a fugue which
roared like an approaching
bushfire.
The Chopin offerings, to which
most of the second-half of the
first recital and the entire second
recital were devoted, covered a’
wide selection of the Pole’s work.
There was the B Minor Sonata,
product of the composer’s artistic
maturity, the scherzo all sparkle
and dash and the extended lines
of the largo treated with almost
elegiac repose. The distinguished
C Sharp Minor. Nocturne was
climaxed with great power; the
one in F Minor, Op. 55 No. 1,
with its wealth of filigree orna-
mentation, was drawn with
ethereal delicacy. The F Major
Ballade, with the harmonic
scheme so enriched by the left-
hand work, was strongly played.
But it was in the three dance-
forms —the mazurka, the waltz
and the polonaise —that Mal-‘,
cuzynski showed complete
affinity with his compatriot.
James Huneker’s dictum that the
Chopin waltz is a dance “not
for the body but for the soul”
was given added weight by the
playing of that in E Minor. The
feminine side of Chopin’s nature
was revealed clearly ip the
mazurkas, and a bracket of six
exploited both the gloom and
the gaiety of the Slavic natures.
The Polonaise in A Flat —
exultation in march-step of the
old ceremonial form —is the
composer’s most masculine
writing. It requires strength and
endurance from the pianist, and
Malcuzynski made it a personal
triumph. The vintage piano must
have staggered under the
drumbeat-onslaught of the left
hand as the pianist hammered
out this paean to a vanished glory
in the grand manner of the
greatest exponents of Chopin.
i*
A.B.C. Competition
The Commonwealth finals of
the A.B.C.’s annual Vocal and
Concerto Competition, decided
in Sydney, had a strong field of
five pianists, a flautist being the
only other instrumentalist.; there
were a soprano and two bass-
baritones in the vocal section.
As in the N.S.W. finals, Russell
Cooper finished with a comfort-
able lead on points, after giving
a powerful declamatory account
of “I Have Attained to Highest
Power,” from “Boris Godou-
nov.” His voice is outstanding
in quality and production.
Brian Hansford (Vic.) sang “O
Star of Eve” from “Tann-
hauser” with style, but not
always on true pitch ; Barbara
Ridgway (Q.) raised a pleasant
soprano in an air from Meyer-
beer’s “La Prophete.”
Bravura pianism of excep-
tional merit marked the playing
of the first movement from
Rubinstein’s Concerto No. 4 by
the winner in the instrumental
section' Janette Hamilton
(N.S.W.). Altogether it was a
dynamic performance by a 16-
year-old, who obviously has a
natural feeling for integration
with the orchestra. Specially
commended was flautist John
Wion (Vic.) for a performance
of Hofman’s “Concert Piece for
Flute and Orchestra,” in which
accuracy and flexibility never
flagged even under pressure at
the highest speeds.
Of the other four pianists,
Cornelia Brain (N.S.W.), in two
movements from Chopin’s
Second Concerto, and Mary
Warnecke (W.A.), in the open-
ing section of the “Emperor,”
showed-up best.
University Festival
Sydney University’s Drama
and Music Festival opened with
three French plays—Courteline’s
“La Paix Chez Soi,” Giraudoux’s
“L’Apollon de Bellac” and Sala-
crou’s “Le Casseur d’Assiettes”
—and went on to a.performance
of Webster’s “Duchess of Malfi.”
The St. Paul’s College Mummers
derived lively satisfaction from
the gory dispatch of all the prin-
cipals and, altogether, made a
pretty good job of the presenta-
tion. The portrait of de Bosla
was outstanding, but the Duchess
herself could have done with a
little more color.
“The Hollow”
The title of this Agatha
Christie thriller refers to an
English country house —that
most lethal of luxuries enjoyed
in English fiction —and, as if
that were not enough to guaran-
tee a murder, one character is
given to collecting revolvers as
a hobby.
One of the apparently happy
group of weekend guests, a
young doctor, is murdered, and
it is revealed that practically
everyone under 30 is the lover
of somebody else. Agatha
Christie , shows considerable
technical skill in making these
story-puppets into acceptable
stage people, and in the Bris-
bane Repertory Theatre produc-
tion Gloria Birdwood-Smith’s
casting bestowed upon the piece
a merit in performance far be-
yond expectations from reading
the script.
Jean Jarrott’s eccentric wife,
whose crazy logic encompasses
alike the earthworm and egg-
dating, was the performance of
the evening, and it would be
hard to judge between Sheila
Storrs, Ealine Cusick and Alfred
Race in their photo-finish for
second-place.
As it usually does with these
modern pieces, Brisbane Rep.
put this one over with distinc-
tion in sets and dressing.
V. V.
Talkies
“The Prisoner” (Sydney
Vogue): A superb film-version
of Bridget Boland’s play (she
also wrote the screen-play), said
to be based on the trial of
Cardinal Mindszenty in Hungary.
Set in an unnamed Communist
country, the story is about a
Catholic cardinal whose popu-
larity and power are regarded as
a danger to the State. He is
arrested, imprisoned and then
handed over to one of the
country’s cleverest inquisitors,
whose orders are to force a con-
fession of treason from him.
This collision of two brilliant
intellects makes an absorbing
film. Alec Guiness, usually seen
in light comedy, proves his
versatility with an arresting
portrait of the cardinal: Jack
Hawkins, as the interrogator,
gives another striking perform-
ance ; and Wilfred Lawson
distinguishes himself as • the
vulgar little jailer.
“To Dorothy, a Son” (Syd-
ney Esquire): This pleasant
English farce has John Gregson
as a harassed father-to-be who
will inherit two-million dollars
if he sires a son by a given date.
Shelley Winters plays his
American first-wife who will get
the money if he doesn’t, and
Peggy Cummins is the pro-
spective mother whose tardiness
in producing the infant reduces
everyone to the nervous-wreck
stage. Brisk and competently
done.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
STORY TO NOW
Twenty-six-year-old cattleman
Bob Anders becomes overseer of
Yakaparni, far out in Central
Queensland. City bank-manager
Forster has arranged the appoint-
ment, knowing that owner Car-
son and head-stockman Albert
Newton are badly running the
station. Newton leaves angrily
after a showdown, and Bob
determines not to re-engage flash
horsebreaker '‘Black Albert,”
either. Advised by Dilargo town-
ship pubkeeper Curly Ryan, Bob
engages as a new team tough
little horseman Wonga Watkins,
Mick Grey, Steve' Hartley and
Duffy Spooner. Mrs. Carson,
fond of her explosive husband,
talks to Bob of her teenage
daughter, Julia, schooling in the
city, and mentions also Carla
Greer, daughter of the town-
ship’s popular doctor. Bob,
Wonga and the rest have spent
a fruitless week trying ,to get
cattle out of the big property’s
wilder country. They are now
after a good mob of wild ones
galloping for the open.
CHAPTER XII
( Continued)
BEFORE we had time to
realise our good fortune
we were in open ironbark
country with the mob
still intact and the scrub well
behind us.
“Doc. just rescued you in time, didn’t he?”
But they were not ours yet,
not by a long way.
In spite of Wonga’s urging, the
tail was dropping back, and it
was obvious that if the leaders
were not stehdied-down to a
walk very soon the mob would
be so strung out it would be-
unmanageable. It only needed
one beast to break and we would
be in trouble.
In theory we should have tried
to ring them then, but I think
we were all afraid to risk turn-
ing the leaders back towards the
scrub. We were too anxious, and
the prize was too big.
I dropped back to the tail
and called to Wonga, “Up to the
lead and see if you can get them
to follow you. Head for the
yards and tell Mick to keep ’em
in behind you. It’ll be dark
soon.”
* Dark soon, and the yards
nearly three miles away! Every-
thing now depended on Wonga.
Cattle, even the wildest cattle,
can be induced to follow a man
riding in the lead. But that man
must be go6d, able to judge his
pace to a fraction, giving way
when the pressure is too great,
soothing the leaders and steady-
ing them down whenever he
senses the opportunity.
And Wonga soothed them.
Before long he had them steadied
to a trot, and before darkness
overtook us he had them
following him at a walk.
I think we were all trembling
with anxiety then, wondering if
single beasts would try to break
in *the dark, wondering how ? we
would hold the mob once they
sighted the yard.
The stars, came out and a
quarter-moon glinted down
through the trees, enabling me
to distinguish the horseman who
was shepherding each wing and
Wonga riding with apparent un-
concern in the lead, a veritable
Pied Piper, with the leading
bullocks almost brushing his
horse’s tail.
The yards loomed up, faint
in the darkness ahead, and I
found myself holding my breath.
One false move now and We
could easily lose the lot. If the
leaders took fright, if Wonga
failed to do the right thing, if
any one of us . .
Oh, a dozen “ifs”! Mick
swore afterwards he held his
breath for the last fifty yards.
Like the rest of us, he. felt our
luck was too good to last.
But it did last. With the
leaders still close behind him,
Wonga rode straight into the
yard, and the entire mob fol-
lowed. We leaped from our
horses and rushed to put the
rails up, still so amazed at the
.simplicity of it all that we would
have shut Wonga in with the
cattle had he not come out of
the dust protesting loudly.,
“Yard a man with the mob,
and then put the rails up on
’im,” he complained. “You’ll
be shovin’ the bloody brand on
’im nexj,”
How we talked that night!
How we gloated and boasted of
our skill. It took Wonga to
bring us to our senses by point-
ing out that our success had been
due to the right mixture of luck
and skill —ninety-nine per cent,
luck and one per cent, skill.
“Then you’d better take the
credit for the one per cent.,” I
told him. “It was too dark for
me to see how you managed it,
but I’ve never seen touchy cattle
settle-down to following a man
so quickly.”
“It’s the smell of ’irp,” Mick
said
“Or the flamin’ lies he tells
'em,” Steve suggested.
“You’re both on the wrong
track,” Wonga told them. “I’ll
let y’ into a secret. An old abo.
out beyond Camooweal put me
on 'to it. Took me fifteen years
to get the ’ang of it. It’s the way
y’ hold y’r mouth.”
Whatever it was, Wonga had
it to a degree that none of the
others could acquire. In the
many musters that followed
I formed the habit of sending
him to the lead, and always the
cattle followed him readily. Mick
and Steve used to complain that
once we got a mob together
Wonga’s work ended for the
day. He just rode back to the
yards, playing a leaf or looking
for “sugarbags” while the rest of
us drove the cattle,
11/E took the whole mob in to
™ ’ the homestead next morning,
dropping the rails as soon as it
was light enough to see.
“Let ’em run for a bit,” I told
the boys. “Wonga, you take the
lead and steady ’em up when
you see a chance.”
“And for Gawd’s sake don’t
forget to hold y’r mouth right,”
Mick yelled as the leaders raced
out.
Except for a few anxious
momepts at the start we had no
great trouble, and by the time
we had covered the eight miles
to the weaner-paddock gate they
were stringing along the car-
track like a mob of milkers.
Once they were through the gate
I cantered ahead to see Carson.
He was fitting a new rail in
the horseyard when I rode up,
and he looked faintly surprised
to see me.
“I didn’t expect you till
tomorrow,” he said. “Everything
go all right?”
“Not bad,” I told him. “The
boys are bringing a few head
in. I reckon we’ll get a truck-
load of fat bullocks out of them,
so I came on to see if you’d
like to ring up the meatworks
or one of the city butchers.
Most of them are old pikers,
probably pear-eaters, and they’ll
only pine away if we try to
hold them.”
He was really pleased at the
news, said he’d ring-up at once,
and because I wanted to see
how my pup was I left my horse
in the yard and walked towards
the house with him.
Sneezer greeted me boister-
ously, but his attention was
divided between me and another
pup, slightly smaller than he
was. I picked the two of them
up and looked at Carson.
“Thought you’d want a second
one,” he said awkwardly. “Mc-
Kinley said he could get me one
last council - day. Rang -up
yesterday to say he was leaving
it at the pub, so I went in and
got it.”
I put the pups down and
started to thank him, but he was
already walking away. He
might have made a quiet and
dignified exit had the new
arrival not dived playfully at his
boots. As it was, he tripped
over the pup and said:
“Blasted dogs! A man can’t
take two steps without falling
over the cursed things. I dunno.
I dunno what you want to keep
the infernal things for. Damned
if I do.”
Two days later we trucked
the bullocks in Dilargo and
ended the cattle-work for the
year. Christmas was pnly two
weeks away. Mick, Steve and
Duffy were paid-off until we
started the big weaning-muster
early in the New Year.
• Wonga was to stay on and
finish the breaking. I told him
he could either come back with
me that evening or have a
couple of days off in Dilargo.
He seemed undecided, so I did
not press him. When I got to
know him better I realised he
was never undecided on that
point. As Curly Ryan’s best
customer he knew his weakness,
and only put up a show of in-
decision for form’s sake. With
money in his pocket he could no
more have ridden out of Dilargo
without what he termed “a skin-
ful of Ryan’s rotgut” than he
could have illtreated a young
horse.
“That’s the lot,” I announced,
as we secured the truck-doors.
“What about a beer?”
Mick and Steve said, “Too
right!” and licked their lips in
anticipation.
“What did he say?” Duffy
asked in his quiet, flat tone. “A
beer? My oath! I’ll be in that.”
Wonga squatted on his heels,
drew the Yakaparni brand in
the dust, and said, without look-
ing up, “Don’t suppose one
would ’urt us, eh?”
“Come on, Wonga!” Mick
stamped his foot on the care-
fully-drawn brand. “Get up off
y’r rump. You know y’r skin’s
crackin’.”
II7E drank quite a few beers
* that afternoon. The bar
. was the coolest place in town,
and the beer was reviving
glorified memories of our week
at the Brigalow Yards.
Once Curly said, “You blokes
want another beer, or are y’
goin’ to toss a few more
scrubbers first? Must ’ave about
fifty ’ead tied down by now.”
A few more‘customers drifted
in, though I scarcely noticed
them until Curly called me aside
and introduced me to an elderly
man in white.
/
“This is Dr. Greer,” he said.
“Doc.’s been wantin’ to meet
you; .but didn’t like draggin’ you
away from the bull-tossin'.”
In a district where nearly
every man was tanned or
reddened by the sun, Dr. Greer
stood out by his greyness—strong
thatch of grey hair, clipped grey
moustache and a greyish tinge
in his skin. He looked a quiet,
restful sort of man, but there
was an amused twinkle in his
soft brown eyes. I had a slight
difficulty in bringing all those
details into focus as I shook
hands with him, and even a
little trouble with one or two of
my words.
“Mr. Carson told me you’d be
in today,” he said. “My wife and
I were wondering if you’d care
to stay and have dinner with
us.”
I took a deep breath and said,
“That’sh very good of you,
Doctor. But if you’ll ’scuse me
I think we’d better leave it till
another day. You see—er —well,
to tell you the hones' truth I
don’t think I’m strictly sober.”
He smiled at me then, giving
me time to take another deep
breath and wish I hadn’t drunk
so much, time to realise I really
wanted to go off with him and
spend an hour or two in his
company.
“You’ll do,” he told me
quietly. “If you’d been really
under the weather you couldn’t
have said ‘strictly sober.’ Come
along. My wife will be dis-
appointed if I don’t bring you
home.”
I asked Duffy to look after
my horse, and went with him.


“Up or down?”
CHAPTER XIII
THE walk to the Greer house
made me feel better, but I
couldn’t altogether escape the
feeling that I had drunk too
much. I had to meet the doctor’s
wife, and I seemed to remember
there was a daughter also.
What was it someone had said
about her? Getting on in years.
Couldn’t get anyone to marry
her. Something like that.
Probably a sour old maid.
Still, the doc. was a hell of a
nice old bloke. Made you feel
you wanted to make an im-
pression on him. Let him see
you were, the sort of bloke he’d
be proud to take home to dinner.
The house was on high blocks,
and as we walked up the stairs
I felt good. The walk from the
hotel and the doctor’s easy con-
versation had cleared my head
and given me confidence. I no
longer had trouble with any of
my words, and I was looking
forward to my dinner.
Mrs. Greer met us at the head
of the stairs —a tall, rather hand-
some woman with an imposing
bosom and a very friendly
manner. I thought her a charm-
ing, if somewhat gushing,
-hostess. She chattered on about
how nice it was to see me after
all they’d heard about me from
>the Carsons, and of course she’d
known my mother years ago,
before either of them were
married.
“And this is my daughter,
Carla,” she announced as she
led me into the dining-room.
I blinked. I am not quite sure
what I had been expecting. A
prim angular sort of a woman,
I think. One with disappoint-
ment stamped on her face. But
the girl who stood holding out
her hand was beautiful, tall like
mother, but with her father’s
restful manner and humorous
eyes.
When she smiled I found my-
self wondering why no one had
really told me about her before.
Why had I wasted an afternoon
drinking with my mustering-
team when I could have been
up here talking with this
gorgeous creature?
That was how Carla appeared
to me that first evening. Later,
when I got to know her better
and my judgment was not in-
fluenced by Curly Ryan’s beer,
I realised she was not beautiful.
There were times when I thought
she was downright plain. Actu-
ally, she was neither. Though her
features had nothing of classical
beauty, her manner and expres-
sion more than made amends.
I forget what the dinner con-
versation was about. I probably
talked too much; I know I
talked myself into helping
with the washing-up after-
wards. The job was almost
finished, and I was flattering my-
self that no one could have
guessed I had spent the after-
noon drinking, when a wet plate
slipped out of my hands. Some-
how I caught it before it hit the
floor. Mrs. Greer had her back
turned, but Carla said, with her
father’s quiet twinkle, “Doc. just
rescued you in time, didn’t he?”
She always called her father
Doc.
It was nearly midnight when
I left to look for Duffy and my
horse. I had had a most enjoy-
able evening, and at some stage
of it I had promised to take
Carla to the Race Club Ball in
the School of Arts on the Satur-
day night.
T WAS in Dilargo the following
night, but I did not see the
Greers. Carson’s daughter was
due up on the Mail, and as
he hated driving at night he
asked me to go in and get her.
Though I could scarcely
refuse his request, I secretly
cursed the child. I had wasted a
whole day hunting for her two
pet horses, and after only two
hours’ sleep the night before I
was looking forward to an early
night.
The Mail was nearly an hour
late. The hotel was closed, and
there was no one about but the
night-officer, who didn’t appear
to be in a talkative mood. He
answered my greeting, said “The
Carson kid cornin’ up tonight,
eh?” and went back into his
stuffy little office. I gathered
from his tone that he didn’t
like the “Carson kid.”
Neither did I when she finally
climbed down from the Western
Mail, She was peeved because
her father had not come in to
meet her, and I \yas* sleepy and
irritable. Standing in the patch
of light outside the booking-
office, searching through her
purse for the luggage-checks, I
thought she looked just as un-
attractive in her school uniforrn
as she did in the photograph in
the dining-room.
She spoke with an exaggerated
accent evidently fostered by her
school, handing me the luggage-
checks and instructing me what
to look for. In fact, the kid
high-hatted me. She made no
effort to help me with her lug-
gage, although she had enough
to make the old tilly groan.
“I see we’ve still got the dis-
gusting old tilly,” she remarked
as she climbed in. “It’s a wonder
Daddy hasn’t bought a decent
car by now. It’s not as if he
couldn’t afford it.”
1 said, “This one goes,” and
slammed the door violently.
I did not indulge in any
entertaining conversation on the
way home. Julia, I think, made
One or two remarks, but her
affected accent annoyed me so
much I scarcely bothered to
answer her. The Carsons were
waiting at the gate, and while
all the greeting was going on I
carried the luggage in, put the
tilly away and went to bed.
Next morning, after I had run
the horses up, Carson asked me
rather diffidently if I’d take Julia
with me whenever I was going
out for a short ride.
“She’s a good horseman,” he
said. “Mad on riding, but she’s
too darned reckless. Doesn’t
realise the dangers.”
“So you want me to be a
bloody nursemaid now, do you?”
I asked.
“Dammit no, Bob.” He
sounded quite huffy. “You don’t
have to do it at all. I was just
asking you to keep an eye on
her, as a favor.”
I laughed and said, “Don’t
worry, Mr. Carson, I was only
joking. I’ll look after the kid.
She can come with me whenever
she likes,” After all, I was going
to ask him to do me a favor on
Saturday. “Let her come this
morning if she wants to.”
He looked immensely relieved,
said he would take her out him-
self only he had so many jobs
to do he didn’t know how he’d
get them done by Christmas,
and playfully rolled the new pup
over with his foot.
I guessed he would only spend
the day pottering about, but that
was his affair. I also guessed
that, in spite of his love for his
daughter, he would think-up
every possible excuse to dodge
having to get on a horse.
My answer had put him in
such a good mood that I got in
while the going was good and
asked him about the tilly for
Saturday "night.
“Certainly, Bob,” he said.
“Take it. As a matter of fact
I intended to tell you to use it
whenever there’s anything on in
Dilargo. Not much fun for you
being stuck here all the time.”
Good old Carson, I thought.-
You may be a bit of a fizzer,
but you’ll do me.
I had kept-in a couple of
horses that badly needed work-
ing, so I rode one that day.
Julia caught and saddled her
own horse, and then sat on the
top rail while I saddled-up in the
yard. I suppose we all like an
audience, even an audience of
one, when we are going to ride
something a bit rough. And the
chestnut mare I rode that morn-
ing was rough enough for me.
I stayed with her, but only just,
and I was relieved when she
calmed-down. However, I was
vain enough to feel 1 had given
my audience a thrill.
Apparently I was wrong, for
she said, with that infuriatingly
superior accent, “She didn’t do
so frightfully much, after all,
did she?”
We spent the morning in the
lower end of the weaner-
paddock. There were steers in
there that we would be turning
into the bullock-paddock after
New Year, and I thought this
as good a time as any to start
their education. Whenever a
mob raced or trotted away, we
blocked them and held them
until they settled-down.
Carson was right when he said
his daughter was reckless. She
passed me once when I was
racing to block a mob, flashed
past me, standing up in her
stirrups and spurring her horse.
Snatched the lead away from
me and swung the mob expertly,
Jeaving me to do the humble job
of backing-up.
I didn’t say anything until we
had the mob standing quietly,
and then I called her over.
“You listen to me,” I said.
“I’m running this show. When
I want you to take the lead I’ll
tell you. Until then you’ll stay
behind me. Well behind.
Understand?”
She tossed her head and said,
“Oh, all right, if that’s the way
you feel about it. What are we
doing this for, anyway? For
fun?”
“Certainly not for your enter-
tainment,” I told her.
"HUONG A returned in time to
run the horses up next
morning. He said he felt so
crook he didn’t think he’d live
till sundown, but he insisted on
starting work.
“Sweat the booze outa me
system,” he said mournfully. “A
man’s not right in the head, fillin’
himself up with that rotgut. But
never again, boss! That’s the
last time I’ll come at that silly
caper. I’m off it for good now.”
It was the first time I heard
Wonga make that vow. In the
years that followed I heard it
with frequent regularity.
Julia came out with me after
breakfast, ignoring my sugges-
tion that it would be much more
interesting for her to stay and
watch Wonga breaking-in. I
think she regretted her decision
before the morning was over,
because I caught a quiet horse
and rode one of the fences, not
even bothering to block the few
head of cattle we saw.
Once when I got off to tighten
a wire she said, “Daddy tells
me you’re going in to the Race
Club Ball on Saturday night.”
“Anything remarkable about
that?” I asked.
She didn’t answer for a while.
She waited until I had tightened
the wire and remounted before
saying, “I bet you’re taking
Carla 'Greer.”
I didn’t answer that
r T'HERE was quite a gathering
at the doctor’s house when I
got there. All of them were
station people in for the dance,
and most of them were about
my own age or younger.
The girls were changing, while
the men stood around talking
to the doctor. Carla came out
and introduced me to everyone
within reach.
Apparently I had been holding
things up, because, the introduc-
tions over, she said, “You boys
can go off and have your drinks
now while we finish dressing.
And don’t spend half the night
swapping yarns down there.”
The bar was crowded. Curly
Ryan, sweating profusely and
assisted by two offsiders, was
doing his best to satisfy as fine a
(Continued on next page)
“I'm running this show. When I want you to take the lead I’ll tell you.”


Fatth in the
Future
\
Looking to Australia’s role in the East, I
believe we should be doing our utmost now to
foster trade with the Philippines.
A strong link was formed between the two
countries in the last war. And yet Australians
have little contact with those 20 million neighbours
whose Christian civilisation goes back 400 years to
the coming of colonial Spain.
More than 7000 islands are in the group that
Magellan’s discovery in 1521 brought out of the
mist of Chinese and Arabian legend. Fewer, than
3000 of them have a name, and Only 462 have an
area of a square mile or more; but there they are,
with their population spread mainly over 11 large
islands, and importing, on a recent survey, 78 per
cent, of the, commodities they require.
The staple diet is rice, supplemented by fish
and beef. Their carabao—the water buffalo, their
best, of burden, and a source of meat—was
decimated in the war. The Filipinos are in need of
cattle, preferably alive.
From Australia last year, more than 8000 were
shipped to Manila for slaughter. The market
potential is very much greater.
In fact, the Philippines Government has
indicated its readiness to assist interested breeders
with finance to build up a trade in breeding-stock
suitable for trdpical conditions. It has had
substantial advances from the U.S. Export-Import
Bank to aid the country’s industrial and financial
development.
, Now, it seems to me that the export of cattle
and beef from our northern ports is a logical trade
development —for the north, and for the whole of
Australia.
Time and distance and the ensuring of regular
supplies of large, economic shipments—these are
the factors in the Philippines proposition. The
opportunity is so inviting for Australia that it could
warrant Federal action to provide the shipping,
The market is there. It is a trade with friends.
And it is dollar-earning.
7
collection of thirsts as any pub-
lican could wish for, and, as
Wonga would have said, it
wasn’t long before we were right
up among the leaders.
Two of our party, the Stewart
brothers, had been in my unit
in Palestine, a fact calling for
a longer celebration than the cir-
cumstances or our partners for
the evening would allow. How-
ever, Reg Stewart solved that
difficulty.
“We’ll pool-in for a few
bottles and take ’em up to Doc.’s
house,” he said. “We always
do. Park 'em under the house.
It’s good and handy to the hall,
and we can slip out for a snort
whenever we start to run dry.”
I thought* it an excellent sug-
gestion, but pointed out regret-
fully that I would not be a free
agent.
“I’ve promised to escort
Carla Greer,” I explained.
“Oh, that’s all right,” the
Stewart brothers laughed.
“Carla’s used to it. She’d die of
shock if you didn’t leave her for
a snort now and again. Any of
the girls would.”
We clinked our way back and
stowed the bottles in the wash-
tubs under the doctor’s house.
The Race Club Ball was a
huge success. Practically the
whole district had turned-up for
it, and Dilargo’s long main
street was lined with cars.
Inside the hall groups of the
older women sat around the
walls, gossiping and watching the
tightly-packed mass of dancers,
small boys played slippery-slides
on the polished floor whenever
they saw the smallest opening in
the crowd, and babies slept
more-or-less peacefully under
chairs.
The surplus men stood out-
side, mostly crowded around the
doorway, and in the intervals
between dances almost every
man went outside “for a breath
of fresh air,” leaving his partner
to fan herself and endure the
stifling heat of the hall.
Mick was there, dancing with
furious gaiety. Steve was cutting
a neat figure, and Duffy was
dancing sedately with the girl
who had brought my morning-
tea that first morning at the
hotel.
Wonga was not in the hall.
I only saw him once during the
entire evening, and that was
when he materialised out of the
darkness behind the hall, sway-
ing unsteadily, but drunkenly
determined to do what he con-
sidered the right thing.
The right thing on this
occasion meant crowning Black
Albert with a half-empty beer-
bottle.
T HAD seen the other Albert on
the dance-floor several times
before Mick sidled up to me and
said, “Albert says ’e wants to see
you out the back. He’s waitin’
out there now, but don’t you go
out, boss. I seen Black Albert
hangin’ around and I got an idea
the two of them’s goin’ to do you
over. The sergeant’s out the
front.”
Two things made me disregard
Mick’s advice—my own obstin-
acy and the amount of Curly
Ryan’s Dutch-courage I had
imbibed. Both kept reminding
me that if I refused to go out
Albert would boast to everyone
that I was afraid to meet him
alone.
The music started for the next
dance,. Mick pranced off with a
plump girl in a bright-pink
frock, and I slipped out the
back-door.
Albert was waiting on the
extreme edge of the patch of
light that, shone through the
open door. No one else was in
sight.
“What’s oh your mind,
Albert?” I asked, realising
almost at once that I had been
foolish to come out, v wrong in
believing Albert was alone. Over
his shoulder I caught a glimpse
of a black face topped by an
enormous grey sombrero, and
behind that was the dim out-
line of another figure.
In fact, there seemed to be
men everywhere—three in front
of me and more, I sensed, behind
me. Surely they weren’t all
Albert’s backers!
“Come on, Albert,” I said,
hoping I sounded more confident
than I felt. “What’s the trouble?
I haven’t got all night to waste.”
He shuffled his feet
awkwardly and ' said, “Brought
y’r gang along, eh?”
From behind me Mick’s voice
answered gleefully, “My bloody
oath, Albert! We’re all in on
this.” -
I turned and saw he had Steve
and Duffy with him. Albert
glanced over his shoulder and
called to his half-brother, “Look
out! There’s another one behind
y’!”
“Too blurry right there ish,”
came the slurred, drunken tones
of Wonga as he lurched for-
ward, waving a bottle threaten-
ingly. “You shtart somethin’,
Black Albert. Go on! Crown
y’r black skull with thish bottle,
I will.”
The two Alberts left, and after
heatedly informing my muster-
ing-team that I was quite cap-
able of looking after myself
without the help of a bodyguard
I cooled down and thanked
them.
Mick said, “Aw, come orf it,
boss. A man don’t often get the
chance of a fight on a dance-
night.”
I went inside, leaving him to
pacify Wonga, who was still
waving the bottle and repeating
over and over, “Crown ’im wish
bottle, I will.”
Carla was by no means the
belle of the -ball. Still, she was
attractive, she danced beauti-
fully and seemed popular. Cer-
tainly she got her full share of
dances, leaving me free to slip
out for a number of “quick
snorts” with the Stewart boys
and other male members of our
party.
There was a distinct advantage
in storing the grog under the
doc.’s house, I was informed.
Not only was there a cool water-
bag thoughtfully hung there by
Carla for the benefit of the spirit-
drinkers but the grog itself was
safe from the keen noses of old
Dad Mullins' and Weepin’
Wilkins.
The old practice of stowing
a bottle or two in your car any-
where in the vicinity of the
dance-hall was a losing proposi-
tion while those two stayed on
their feet. And they were good
stayers. No hiding-place was
safe from them. Under the
front-seat, in the boot, behind
the back-seat and even under
the bonnet, wedged up against the
warm engine—they knew them
all.
Weepin’ Wilkins, I discovered,
got his name from his habit of
declaring that sdmething or
other was a “weepin’ shame” or
“a weepin’ disgrace to the
country.” It was “a weepin’
disgrace to the country” every
time Sergeant Dillon dragged
him away from the vicinity of
the dance-hall and locked him
up for the night.
Sergeant Dillon never missed
a dance, rarely went inside the
hall, and never missed a drunk.
In every respect he was the per-
fect bush policeman. A firm
believer that prevention was
better than punishment, he had
an uncanny knack of being in
the right place at the right time.
Mick once complained that
a man had no chance of settling
a fight at a Dilargo dance. If
he got the first swing in before
Dillon grabbed him he was
lucky.
Yet Sergeant Dillon had a
record of never bringing a man
before the local J.P. on a drunk-
and-disorderly charge. The
police-station was at the lower
end of the town, and Dillon’s
usual method of dealing with
trouble was to grasp the cause of
it by the arm and ask, “Up or
down?”
“Up,” to the local lads, was
up the street and home to bed.
“Down” meant the night in the
cooler and an hour’s reviver on
the Sergeant’s woodheap in the
morning. The wood cut to the
Sergeant’s satisfaction, the
prisoner was discharged.
Mick claimed that Dillon only
hung around the dance-hall
looking for someone to cut his
firewood, and Wonga, speaking
from bitter experience, declared
the Sergeant owned “the bluntest
bloody axe this side of Thar-
gomindah.”
“Take a tip from me, boss,”
he once said. “If you’re ever
thinkin’ of gettin’ full in Dilargo
buy yourself a good file first.”
After supper that night we
flaunted local custom by taking
our partners out for a drink.
The girls enjoyed it, though none
of them could be tempted to a
second one. They were anxious
to get back to the dance, afraid
they might miss something.
We all agreed that the dance
was the best ever and the four-
piece orchestra the best country
dance-band in Queensland. The
longer they played the better the
musicians became. Perhaps the
dwindling supply in Mrs. Greer’s
washtubs had something to do
with it. I know it was after
three-o’clock when we allowed
them to stop.
I kissed Carla goodnight
before I got to Carson’s tilly for
the drive home. But that didn’t
mean a thing. I had also kissed
three or four other girls good-
night, and the men of our party
had all kissed Carla. Remem-
bering that as I fumbled for the
switch, I got out, climbed the
stairs and kissed Carla again.
A long, satisfactory kiss this
time.
CHAPTER XIV
Tl/fY first Christmas on Yaka-
■*■*■*• parni was an uncomfort-
able one for both Carson and
me. It was uncomfortable for
me because everyone gave me
presents, and I had nothing to
give in return.
I simply had not thought of
it, nor #was I aware then that
Mrs. Carson was one of those
inveterate present-givers who
make a feature of Christmas
Days and birthdays.
Everything was purchased by
mail-order weeks beforehand,
and no one was overlooked.
Carrie, the half-caste housemaid,
got a new frock, and old Dan,
the rousie, was sporting a brand-
new belt in place of the ragged
strip of greenhide that had been
holding his trousers up lately.
Carson’s • discomfort was
brought about- by the enormous
amoupt of roast-turkey and
Christmas-pudding he stowed
away at our midday feast. He
scoffed at his wife’s warning that
he would give himself indiges-
tion, but after the meal was over
he lowered himself into his
veranda chair and suffered
visibly and audibly.
You were never left in any
doubt about Carson’s sufferings.
He screwed his face into contor-
tions, and groaned. It might
only be a small groan, the sort
you could pretend not to have
heard. But if you ignored it
the next groan would be a little
louder, and the next louder still,
until a particularly heavy effort
forced you to ask if he was in
much pain.
“Pain!” he would snarl. “Of
course I’m in pain. You don’t
think I’m doing this for fun, do
you?”
Usually he would produce
another groan of medium
volume then and, having secured
your attention, screw his face up
and describe his symptoms.
“Like someone stabbing a
knife into me,” he informed us
that Christmas Day. He prodded
gently around the region of his
stomach. “Right up to the
handle. And then twisting it
round and round. Grinding it
into me.”
“If you’d only try a little
baking-soda, Joseph dear,” his
wife said," “I’m sure that would
help.”
He gave her one of his most
scornful looks.
“Help to do what?” he
demanded. “Help to burst the
ulcer most likely. A nice mess
I’d be in then, wouldn’t I? Stuck
out here on Christmas Day with
a ruptured ulcer oozing through
me intestines! I’m going off to
have a camp. That’s what I
need.”
I said, “Me too,” and went off
to look for a cool place.
The bell rang for smoke-oh,
and when I returned to the
veranda Carson’s face was
almost hidden behind an enorm-
ous slice of watermelon.
“Help youfself, Bob,” he
invited, nodding towards the
melon on the floor. “I was going
to save it till after smoke-oh, but
I thought I’d better try a bit
first to see if it was any good.”
I decided to have tea first, and
he thought that was a good idea.
After two cups of tea and two
large slices of Christmas-cake he
returned to the watermelon.
VUE did very little work that
week. Julia and I got in a
few fresh milkers for Dan, and
after that I inspected all the
fencing done by the Batsons.
Wonga returned from his
Christmas in Dilargo, and swore
he’d never touch another drop
of booze until the Yakaparni
emus started roosting in the tree-
tops. -
Fence-riding being too quiet
for Julia, she spent her days
watching Wonga or riding as
escort with him when he rode a
youngster outside. r-
The Batsons had made a first-
class job of the fences, clearing
timber off the lines, replacing all
rotting posts and straining-up the
wires. From now on it was up to
me to keep them in that condi-
tion.
“We’ll be able to get all the
paddocks cleaned-up properly


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
Wim
wm&i
m
m
m
'
Mr. W. T. Pratley, well-known merino stud breeder of
"Oakbrook," Bathurst, says: “We use Ampol Diesel Fuel in
our tractors. What l like about Ampol is the service I receive
from my local agent \ . . he’s a good man to do business with ”
Use the best . . . Australia's own
X
*IHls
Hi
a
0©
□
a
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Arnpol Distillate • Lighting Kerosine
© Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFMB.3S
when we start mustering again,”
I said to Carson. “There’s quite
a bit of sorting-out to be done.”
We were driving out to look
at one of the bores, and he
didn’t answer. I thought he must
be concentrating on his driving,
because we tore along for
another half-mile before he
spoke.
“Bob,” he said at last, “if you
were going to buy a car what
sort would you buy?”
“Young Julia been working on
you, has she?” I asked.
“They both have.” He spat
the words out indignantly. “She
and her mother. They’ve organ-
ised a sort of campaign to wear
me down. I haven’t let-on to
either of ’em, but I’d made up
my mind to give the missus one
as a sort of surprise before they
ever started on me.”
I mentioned a well-known
make of American car and gave
him my reasons for recommend-
ing it, finishing-up by saying I
thought it a good idea to have
a car to take the womenfolk in
and out of town and keep the
tilly for station work.
“God dammit, Bob,” he
exploded, “you’re as bad as the
women! Trying to force me into
things. I’ll buy a car when I’m
ready, not before. Nobody’s
going to push me into it.”
“I’m not trying to push you,”
I reminded him. “You said just
now you’d decided to buy the
car.”
“That’s got nothing to do with
it,” he snapped. “Look at the
way the grass is drying-off out
here. If we miss-out on \the
wet season this year we won’t
have a blasted thing left alive on
the place.”
The new car was forgotten.
The rest of ,the drive was takeri-
up with gloomy forecasts of
drought and utter ruin.
T WENT in to Dilargo for the
New Year’s Eve dance in aid
of the C.W.A. After a lot of
thought, I had decided against
asking Carla Greer to come with
me. The Stewart brothers were
sure to be in town, and we could
have a reunion at the pub. Later,
perhaps, we might look in at the
dance for a while.
I got in early, only one drink
behind the Stewart brothers, and
though we had quite a session at
Curly Ryan’s we somehow all
made off for the doctor’s house
soon after eight-o’clock. Once
again we put Mrs. Greer’s wash-
tubs to good use before going
upstairs.
The doctor greeted us cheer-
fully. “The others have all
gone,” he informed us. “Only
left about five-minutes ago. My
wife, being president, insisted on
being there by eight-o’clock, and
Carla and the rest of the party
went with her.”
“Aren!t you coming along,
Doctor?” I asked him.
H e laughed and said,
“Heavens, no! I never go to
dances. I’ve reached the age
when I much prefer a - good night
in bed.” His eyes twinkled. “It
has certain advantages, you
know. For one thing I don’t
wake up with a furry tongue
and a splitting headache.”
“That’s a dirty crack at the
Stewart clan,” Reg declared.
“Anyhow, Doc., one won’t give
you a furry tongue . . . Bob,
nick downstairs and bring up a
couple of bottles of beer.”
I thought two. bottles would
not go very far amongst four of
us, so I carried three up.
The doctor enjoyed his beer.
He said he also enjoyed our com-
pany, but thought it was time we
did our duty on the dance-floor.
We washed the glasses, and left
him preparing for bed.
There was a waltz in progress
when we arrived, with Carla and
every other eligible girl dancing.
When I finally got around to
asking Carla for a dance I said,
“Running out on me, eh?”
She swayed back against my
arm as we danced and she looked
faintly samused.
“I didn’t know you’d asked
me to come with you,” she said.
“Perhaps the invitation got lost
in the mail. Or the Stewarts got
it by mistake.”
I had one more dance with her
just before midnight, bringing
my total of dances for the even-
ing up to three. I don’t remem-
ber who my other partner was.
“I know it’s none of my
business,” Carla said lightly;
“but are you and the Stewart
boys in for a night’s drinking
or dancing?”
“Both,” I told her. “We’re
mixing ’em in the right propor-
tions. A little dancing and a cer-
tain amount of drinking. Any
special reason for asking? ”
She shook her head. “Just
wondering if I’d have to bring
you down a cup of tea before
you start on the sergeant’s
woodheap in the morning.”
“Bring a file with you, too,”
I said.
I thought of telling her she
danced as lightly as a butterfly,
but came to the conclusion that
the less I said the better. Come
to think of it, I was dancing
pretty lightly myself; my feet
felt a good six-inches above the
dance-floor.
“It’ll be midnight soon,” Carla
reminded-me as I escorted her
to her seat:
“Jack’s got a scrub bull tied
down,” Reg announced before I
could answer her.
i looked from him to Carla,
and said, “Excuse us, Carla.
We’d better see if Jack wants a
hand. Dangerous things, bulls.”
j ac k was sitting in one of the
tubs, his long legs dangling over.
the edge.
“Where the hell have you
been?” he demanded. “Nev’
m ind. We’re all here now.” He
tapped the adjoining tub with his
empty glass. “Take a seat. Take
two seats. Berrer pull the plug
out first. I got a feeling some
bloody fool left some water in
this one.”
“Get out of it, you big mug,”
Reg ordered ,
“Can't.” Jack shook his head
sadly, “Thrown and tied, that’s
me. Been tryin’ to get up ever
since you walked off and left
me.”
We hauled him out. He was
right about the plug. As nearly
as we could judge there was
about a foot of water in the
tub, and a lot more dripping
from Jack’s best trousers.
We opened a bottle of rum
and had a good stiff snort all
round, as a precaution' against
Jack catching cold. The crowd
in the hall was singing “Auld
Lang Syne. We felt we should
have been with them, but rather
than face the long dry walk we
linked arms and sang where we
were.
I don’t know what time the
dance, ended. I know I felt very
proud of myself because I was
st iU on ' m Y feet when Jack and
Reg climbed into the back of
their car and passed-out.
.
In VERYONE was leaving the
hall, and I was trying to
remember whether I had or had
aot taken Carla to the dance.
Anyhow, I reasoned, better be
on the safe side and escoirt her
ho ™ e \ ® ette £ stl1 !: take the i£s[
and drive her home.
appreciate that.
As it happened she did not
appreciate one single thing about
me. She arrived while I was stity
trying to get the ignition
switched-on.
“Where do you think you re
going?” she asked.
“To meet you. Drive you
home.”
“Very noble of you.” Her
sarcasm penetrated even my
fuddled brain. “And after that
you were going to drive out to
Yakaparni, I suppose?
i tried to say “Naturally” in
a coldly aloof manner, just to
show her she couldn’t order me
around. Unfortunately for the
result I found it an extremely
difficult word to pronounce,
“Well, you’re not driving any-
where. Get out.” Carla opened
the car door, and added,
“Honestly, you boys make me
sick.”
j woke up soon after day-
break and feeling anything but
we p j was j n a strange room,
a sma p bedroom furnished only
with a dressing-table and the bed
1 was I y in ® on -
Except for my shoes I was
fully dressed, and I had just
started to feel for them when
Carla walked in.
She wore a dressing-gown, and
t 0 my j aun diced eye there was
nothing attractive about her
except the cup of tea in her
hand. At least she had the good
(Continued on page 30)


ecuh £5-7-6%
m
OHVEBT Till SAVINGS
This State Electricity Commission of Queensland Loan is an
investment of National significance for every Australian.
Every penny invested is devoted to building strength—through
electrification—into our Nation’s northern gateway.
For your own benefit take a personal part in helping Queensland and
Australia grow strong. At the same.time profit at £5.7 .6%
Australia’s highest Government-guaranteed interest rate.
State Electricity Commission
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED Short Term for 5 Years
(10 OR 20 YEARS OPTIONAL)
INVEST WITHOUT DELAY!
• You can invest £5O or any multiple of £5O, and subscribe by
instalments, if you wish.'
• Interest is payable at HALF-yearly intervals. It is FAR more
than Bank interest.
• Loan securities are fully negotiable and can be converted,
to cash at any time.
• The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in Queensland,
Tasmania and Western Australia.
Apply free of exchange through any branch of the
Commonwealth Trading Bank, any Stockbroker or
direct to the State Electricity Commission of Queens*
land, Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Lean closes not later than 25th July, 1956
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne and Sydney
No Posies
By GRAEME WICKS
< i HIS is Shirley,” she said,
I loud - voiced and
JL friendly. “An’ my
name’s Louise.” The
tall, thin youth nodded briefly.
“I’m Eddie Giles,” he said.
“They call me Tiger.”
“They call me Pete,” the other
youth said. “But I don’t care
what they call me, just so long
as they don’t call me late for
dinner.”
He laughed loudly and the
others joined in. As they stood
talking outside Luna Park, ripples
of light and shade from flicker-
ing globes beat upon their faces,
matching and stimulating the
nervous excitement that
throbbed up from inside them.
It was 10.30. People continually
formed groups outside the huge
mouth that was the entrance to
Luna Park and wandered off
again: continual drift of people
under the lights while Tiger and
Pete got to know the girls.
Tiger looked at Shirley, sizing
her up. She was a square, he
decided. There was something
untried and innocent about her.
She didn’t say much and she
didn’t seem to latch-on to be-
bop talk. He didn’t like the way
lipstick. He saw it
was the same sort as Louise was
wearing.
Louise was shorter and
plumper than Shirley. With a
practised eye, he took-in the
pink sweater, a size too small,
that moulded itself to her body,
and the grey skirt that hugged
her legs from the thighs to the
knees.
“What do you say to a
drink?” Tiger asked, looking at
Shirley for an answer.
Louise said quickly, “We’ll
be in that. Best idea anyone’s
had tonight!”
As they walked across the
road, Tiger slipped his hand into
Shirley’s. She started, and with-
drew her hand abruptly.
“What’s wrong?” he
exclaimed.
Shirley stared at him and
stumbled when her high-heeled
shoe caught in the tramline. She
didn’t answer.
Louise hooked her arm into
Tiger’s ajid said, “She hasn’t
been around much. She’s not
used to it.”
“I only tried to hold her
hand! What’d she be like if
you put”
“She hasn’t been around. I
was like that meself once. But
it doesn’t take long to learn.”
Louise looked up at Tiger slyly.
Pete fell in beside Shirley.
The girl kept- her eyes straight
ahead. Pete looked at her face
and figure, closely and without
' tact. While he did so, he fitted
a cigarette into the corner of
his mouth.
“Smoke?” he asked.
Shirley cast a frightened
glance at him. “What?”
l4 Want a cigarette?”
“No—er —yes,” Shirley stam-
mered. “I mean —no, thanks ;
. I don’t smoke.”
“Not the only thing you don’t
do, by the look of things,”
Pete muttered loud enough for
her to hear.
He struck a match and the
flare showed up the features of
his face. His cheeks hollowed
as he drew on the cigarette.
Both he and Tiger were wearing
draped gaberdine jackets and
blue-and-white striped polo-
shirts. Pete was shorter and
more thickset than Tiger. They
were both about 16 or 17.
Tiger led the way into the
milkbar. He eased his elbow
on to the counter, and said
slowly, “Well, girls, what’s it to
be? I’d like a milk-shake me-,
self.”
“You’ll have to run ’em round
the block then. Tiger,” said Pete
with an artificial laugh.'
When they got their drinks,
Tiger wandered over to the juke-
box to see the list of records.
Pete went after him.
T OUISE winked at Shirley.
“They’re all right, aren’t
they? I like that Tiger. An’
Pete isn’t bad.” She moved
closer to Shirley. “Listen—why
doncha be a bit friendly?
You’ve only said about one
word all night.”
“But I don’t know what to
say! ”
“Tell ’em you think they’re
wonderful.”
“But I don’t! I think they’re
horrible. I don’t like them.”
Louise grabbed her arm
fiercely. “Listen,” she hissed,
her mouth close to Shirley’s ear.
“Marg’ret wanted to come more
than you, but I brought you
because I liked you, and you’re
not going to back-out on me
now.”
“But I don’t like them. I
don’t think they’re good types.”
“They’re all right, I tell you.
You said you wanted to meet
some boys. What did you
expect—a couple of Sir Gala-
hads? Tiger said they got a
car. We can have a good time.”
“I’m not going anywhere in
a car,” Shirley declared.
“Oh, yes, you are! My oath
you are! If you back-down,
then Tiger and Pete’ll look for
another couple. They won’t
bother with me on me own.
So don’t think I’m gonna let
you back-down!”
“But what are they going to
do?” Shirley asked. “What do
you want to do with them in
the c^r?”
Louise shook her head in
mock despair. “Oh, listen, sis-
ter,” she said, “you’re fourteen,
and by the time you reach
fourteen you’re supposed to
know'a few things—things they
don’t teach you at school.”
Stan Kenton sent, a shudder
through the teenagers draped
in poses about the milkbar.
The music seemed to take
possession of their whole bodies,
and their bodies kept time with
the music.
Tiger came back to the girls.
He rested his arm around
Louise’s neck. She shook her
shoulder and tried to get away,
but she was .smiling and only
struggled for a moment, and
nis arm was still there when
she stopped.
“I spun this disk for you,
baby,” he said, with his head
bobbing to the beat. He
nodded towards Shirley, still
beating time with the music.
“Anything wrong?” he asked.
Louise said, “You’ve got your
arm around my neck.”
He appeared to give this
serious thought for some time.
“Seems to me,” he said at last,
“you’ve got your n?ck in my
arm.”
She shrilled with laughter,
but his face remained stiff and
expressionless. He cut her
laughter short. “Doesn’t your
friend like us?”
“Oh . . . she’s all right. I
was just saying to her how you
got a car.”
“Yeah, Pete’s gone to get it,”
Tiger replied, leaning his back
on the counter. “Thought you
might like a drive.”
Shirley started forward. “No,
I’ve got to get home”
“You do - not!” Louise said.
“Your mother told me that you
could stay out as long as you
liked, so long as you stayed with
me.
“Right-oh, we’ll all be in it,”
Tiger said quickly.
“How long is Pete going to
be?” Louise asked.
“Depends.”
“What on?”
Tiger shrugged and rubbed
the tip of his nose with his
finger. “Hard to start, some-
times.” His face was expres-
sionless. He looked boldly at
Shirley, taking pleasure in
embarrassing her. “How old are
you?” he asked.
She opened her mouth to
answer, but Louise cut her short.
“She’s sixteen—same as fne,”
she lied.
Tiger looked evenly at Shirley.
He cocked his head on one side
and fixed on her figure, but
without interest.
(Continued on page 27)


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Growing Our Wildflowers and Trees
Visit to a
Native Garden
By MARGARET IRVIN
WHEN I started to grow
native plants I coveted
a small one called
Isotoma axillaris, or
simply rock-isotome. Local
nurserymen questioned its exist-
ence —rather loftily, too —and
commended me to their stocks
of introduced shrubs and
perennials. If only I’d known, I
could have lifted a seedling from
the bush a few miles from home.
Instead, I pursued it the hard
way, and it was some months
before I received a thimble-
measure of Isotoma- seed with a
note attached: “This came
originally from Mrs. L. Scobie,
of Griffith —thank her.”
I did that, and in a few days
had a letter in reply that told of
her native-garden and asked
about mine. She enclosed snap-
shots that gave the impression
of a huge area filled with native
plants, thriving so naturally that
my own beds looked altogether
rigid and absurd in comparison.
A few weeks later Winifred
Scobie drove across to our town,
prepared to take me back for a
two-days’ visit to her garden.
It was twenty-past-midnight
when the ute turned into her
drive, the headlamps sliding over
masses of foliage, whose identity
was locked-up for the night in a
puzzle of darkness and shadow.
But I remember the first flowers:
those of the wonga-wonga vine
high on a fence, the flanges pale
as the moon and as remote as the
daylight seemed from that small
hour of the morning.
Before we went to bed I had
another tantalising glimpse of the
garden. Outside the back-door
a flagged area surrounded a
raised bed, in which Australian
buttercups and daisies were in
bloom with campanulas, candy-
tuft and scabious ; and in the
middle of the bed Grevillea
floribunda raised its strange
cinnamon, green and brown
spider-flowers. This is important,
for it is the strangely beautiful
that lies at the centre or heart —
whatever you like to call it—
of any garden where Australian
plants are predominant.
The bed I slept in was beside
a broad window, so that, when
I woke, I was gazing up at foliage
and clear sky, just as I did as a
child when we used to go out of
the city to Kurrajong for
holidays. This time the foliage
belonged to an old box-tree that
had been lopped some years
before in order to invigorate it.
What growth had followed now
hung together in drooping
clusters from branches seemingly
embedded in blue sky.
I think that window must have
been the most sparklingly* clean
in all New South Wales, for,
through it, the leaves looked as
if they had been scrubbed and
polished to a glitter.
Whenever I think of Winifred
Scobie’s garden I begin by
remembering morning-tea-time,
when we took our cups to a
sandstone step at the end of one
of the winding flagged paths.
Hakea saligna, with copper tips,
stood high on our left,, mint-bush
and heath-banksia behind us,
and, on our right, the box-tree,
flanked by five white and rose-
pink tea-trees.
We sat and talked of the
comforts of dappled sunshine,
foliage and strong tea, and stared
along a path that ran between
kangaroo-paws at least 4ft. tall,
and two immense bottlebrushes
—Saligna in white brush on one
side and scarlet Lanceolatus on
the other.
The middle-distance was
almost filled by a 20ft. lillipilli,
Eugenia smithii. At its base the
path split and disappeared
among trees and shrubs. All I
could distinguish was the margin
of a lawn over which a mature
Golden Rain wattle brooded.
When I reach this moment of
recollection X always put the
kettle on . . .
I knew that Winifred Scobie
had been gardening for years,
and I wondered, and then asked,
why she’d made this truly Aus-
tralian garden in the five years
she’d lived in town.
She told me that she’d once
visited a very old lady, and, dur-
ing their talk, had glanced
repeatedly at a portrait on the
wall of a man wearing a number
of medals and ribbons. It was
a painting of her hostess’s uncle,
Baron von Mueller, the botanist
who had spent - years searching
for and classifying hundreds of
Australian plants.
Winifred Scobie had said:
“Please, tell me about him.”
That was the beginning of her
first native-garden.
From that time she started to
bring in from the roadsides what
she calls her “small treasures,”
and gathered seed and seedlings
of larger plants wherever she
could find or buy them. Von
Mueller would have liked her.
Because of him, there’s some-
thing legendary about her
garden, where, with poetic
justice, the dead share the fruits
of time and labor with the, living.
Well, we washed our cups
quickly so that I could see the
whole garden, but just then
visitors arrived to take us out
to the Mallee to see the wild-
flowers. That’s another account.
I had to wait till the afternoon
to finish seeing the garden, and
then had to pause again because
a nurseryman came with some
rare native plants—his way of
saying thank-you to Winifred
Scobie for the many kinds of
seed she’d given him.
While more seed was being
gathered I went off alone, first to
that point where the path split
and vanished. A few yards
further I found the Illawarra
flame-tree that sheds its leaves
in November, to cover its
branches with red flowers before
rushing into palmate leaf again.
The path took a turn past the
wide, thick native rosemary and
led to a grove of Queen-poppies
and morning-primroses, those
brief, golden flowers that turn
to apricot and wither in an hour.
They were backed by the crimson
bottlebrush, Callistemon citrinus,
and by Agonis flexuosa, the
willow-myrtle from W.A.
To be architectural, a garden
has to support quantities of trees
and large shrubs, but they can be
heavy company unless the
structure is softened by sub-
shrubs, perennials, herbs and
annuals. I cannot remember the
precise arrangement of all the
dwarf plants in their many beds.
Some were more captivating than
others, such as the little, intensely
blue dampiera growing near its
golden cousin, goodenia, as
harmonious as clear sky and
sunshine. Sturt’s desert-pea,
running-postman and native
violets (the ivy-leafed and
betony-leafed ones) made much
interesting ground-cover.
Stooping to watch their
scrambling, I noticed the ground
was very . naturally mulched.
There wasn’t a sign of the “culti-
vator” that can be used quite
carelessly in a garden where
exotics grow. In the native plots
hand-weeding, or the use of a
small fork, is about all the
interference the plants will
tolerate.
Leaves, spent grass and twigs
and an' old log or two lay where
ordinarily there would have been
churned soil that always seems
to shout: “Slave at work! Com-
pletely exhausted! Hasn’t a
moment to sit still and enjoy the
scenery! * Poor thing! She (or
he) is so busy scratching and
scraping with her iron hooks she
never notices the self-sown
seedlings go under and the
surface-roots being mauled. As
for mulch, it’s thought to look
not quite tidy or clean, and is
snatched away to the incinerator
before it can settle-down to the
job of decaying and feeding
hungry plants, and at the same
time smothering weeds.
And so I ranted to myself
whilst I admired the native lotus
and bobbing-headed grass that
often wandered along with the
flagstones, doing away with hard
lines and the idea that growing
things must be caged.
Then, suddenly, there was
Isotoma axillaris at the base of
a rock. I tend to be slightly
ridiculous about Isotoma, prob-
ably because I can raise plants
of it from seed. Whenever I sow
seed of an exotic I expect it to
germinate obediently, but with
“natives” I am humbler, and
delighted when these wild
creatures allow me to tame them.
So I make a great fuss of
Isotoma , a diminutive plant
whose flowers are as far removed
from brilliance as dusk is from
midday. They are mauve-blue,
paler than the bluebell, and each
has five separated petals diffused
from a long, slender tube. It is
both a bell and a star, but I am
never clear where the one ends
and the other begins. Isotoma is
the kind of flower Wordsworth
would have liked, and one that
Swinburne would have turned
into a symbol for some dreary,
wishy-washy sin. ,
Winifred Scobie has a
fondness for spider-flowers, Tea-
trees and melaleucas. The
spider-flowers she grows are
lavender Grevillea oleoides;
cinnamon, brown and green
floribunda; pink dallachiana;
red punicea and hookeriana;
grey-flowered 'buxifolia; and
banksii, with scarlet flowers as
big as my closed fist, and so
bright they burn fires among
green branches.
One of the tea-trees was the
double-white, as thickly in bloom
as an ornamental-peach. Its
wands drooped over a fore-
ground of mauve iris, and some-
where near there was a long thin
bed of roses, pointing to the
waterlily-pool, over which a little
statue presided.
Winifred Scobie told me she’d
bought it for 2s. 6d. at a jumble-
sale. It was, she said, a relic of
those days when crudely-colored
plaster figures were admitted to
parlors and halls, just as factory-
made china nymphs are some-
times admitted today to hold up
certain types of lampshades.
But she thought the little figure
had a simple line and grace
despite its gaudy red, blue and
gold, so she painted it white and
set it above the pool to blend
with the innocent white
helichrysums.
Now the native violets are
banked at its feet, and iris clumps
share with it the mirror of the
still, lily-shadowed water.
Autumn must be lovely in this
corner, for the pool is close to
the native shrub, homalanthus,
whose ageing foliage is richly
colored.
As for melaleucas, there were
a bewildering number — Laleritia,
or Robin Redbreast; cyclamen
V/ilsonii ; and one labelled
Thymifolia, but I still wonder
if it was Pulchella, with flowers
like mauve-pink puffs. Close up,
each flower consists of five
slightly curled-in sets of five
stamens, rather like tiny curved
fingers.
I saw Melaleuca steedmannii,
which bears orange-red brushes,
golden-tipped, the kind of shrub
a catalogue would label “hand-
some and useful,” but catalogues
are mostly wide of the ipark, and
would probably turn as red as
the melaleuca if they were
expected to bear the descrip-
tion : “A brilliant, beautiful
savage.”
Although the tea-trees were
massed in several instances —
they are at their best in colonies
—the grevilieas and melaleucas
were widely separated, some in
the back garden, but most of
melaleucas out in front. There
they kept company with Cool-
gardie-rose mallee-gum, wax-
flowers, heath-myrtles, cassias,
Eucalyptus calophylla rosea,
Eugenia australis, the bronzed
lillipilli and Kunzea ambigua.
The flowers of the last shrub
formed green and white spikes,
as heavy as if they were loaded
with a metal weight.
In and out of the shrubs and
trees wandered the lacquered
gold native buttercups, Austral
bluebells, nodding blue lilies,
pink boronia and Leschenaultia
biloba, whose ruffled, ribanded
petals were most frail and blue
and the loveliest of all. There
were mounds of native ajuga
pointing blue fingers at the sky,
corners full of rock-fern and,
out in the open, sketches of
yellow helichrysum, the ever-
lasting that shines
That earth and heaven share
high noon '
And clear and golden is the time
All the space from here to the
sun.
At this point I have to return
to the sweetly-scented white
flowers of the willow-myrtle to
find an adjacent bed where
Eucalyptus macrocarpa, the
Rose of the West, was spreading
its grey-green foliage. It is quite
an uncanny experience to watch
the operculum, or bud-cap,
being slowly eased from the wad
of crimson stamens that unfurl
at the fall of the operculum,
which is shaped like a pixie’s
cap and is, at the base, at least
an inch or more in diameter.
Another, .but much taller,
gum guarded the little mallee.
The gum also has broad flowers,
yellow stamens unclosing at the
fall of a vivid red operculum.
This gum is special to Winifred
Scobie, as candlebarks, macro-
carpa and silver-mallee are to
me.
I could go on describing
wattles, eucalypts, bottle-brushes,
melaleucas. They were there in
quantities, often accented by
quite tiny flowers, by banks and
masses of linaria, picotees,
agathea, pansies and primroses,
while native bulbous calo-
stemmas sprayed long leaves
beside the flagstones edging the
huge crescent bed in the front
garden. '
I’ve saved Stenocarpus, the
firewheel-tree, till last, since it’s
ecologically at odds with
Griffith, yet thrives amongst the
sheltering gums. It is a vivid
and extraordinary tree, throwing
out red, wheel-shaped flowers as
a planet might throw out
satellites. One day the orange
flowery of the silky-oak will
spread above its crown to protect
it further from dry air and the
frost that are so removed from
its native rain-forest.
Winifred Scobie’s garden has
been made on a quarter of an
acre, and some of this is taken-
up by the house. That’s not
much space to hold so many
plants. To manage this success-
fully, she created an illusion of
distance by masking fences, and
by bringing forward trees and
shrubs that are usually found on
boundary-lines.
This also seems to have been
her rule: two medium-sized
lawns only, one back and one
front, shaped rather like the
balloons that float from the lips
of comic characters to contain
their brief idioms. Squares,
oblongs and circles were pro-
hibited, and the rest of the plot
was cut-up and paths flagged to
lead to and enclose the beds—
big and little, ‘as discrimination
and mood suggested.
From a practical point of view,
that was all. Fortunately,
Winifred Scobie was able to fuse
the practical with the visionary,
and achieved a beautiful garden.
Anyone interested in the culti-
vation of native plants could do
the same, with time, imagination
and love—not sentimentality, but
honest - to - goodness, hard-
working affection that gives each
native plant the soil and situa-
tion in which it can grow to the
fullness of its flowqrs and seed. 1
GIRL AND BLOSSOM
N.S.W.
I move into September’s light,
she said, and so I dance and sing.
Music is all that anyone knows
to tell the truth about the spring.
Yet there is silence, too, she thought,
standing still beside the tree.
Here my dance and song seem lost,
my words unblessed compared with this
that broke the ringing glass of frost.
Silently—how silently!—
a mark was traced above each node,
and out of that grave signature
sweet flesh and glimmering spirit rose
to make my limbs and voice unsure.
I dance, I sing, then I am still,
but nothing I do translates the tree:
quiet and slow the flowers come out,
touching time fastidiously.
MARGARET IRVIN.


1m convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco /'
“I have tried many tobaccos but none to
compare with Capstan for true smoking
enjoyment.
“ Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia
tobaccos is consistently maintained; you
can always be sure of its flavour and fine
smoking qualities.”
Ask everywhere for —- j.
Im*
i&m.
wmmw
■w 0
<<>
m
m
m
sW.
x ' - '-■. ,„■■ >
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
204D.»0.i>4
CAPSTAN
-better tobacco
£5OO REWARD
I | 111
■
■
m
1 rag
■ BMHIIBHW ■ IW»|| ■
f'A s %Bttta&s- v : §m
■iks£Sßßemsfjt m
:■■■: '••
: . ; ' ■' '
. • • V *
'
WH
NORMAN PIETSCH
£5OO REWARD will be paid for information, which, in the
opinion of the undersigned, leads to the discovery of the
whereabouts of NORMAN PIETSCH, who disappeared while
travelling by car between Goulburn and Sydney on 21st
June, 1956. The car was found abandoned near Berrima.
He is aged 39, sft. Bin. tall, of medium complexion,
slight build, with dark hair thin on top and turning grey.
Eyes noticeably light green. When last seen was
wearing grey sports coat, trousers and hat, with brown over-
coat and shoes.
Please give information to your local Police Station
or the C. 1.8., Sydney.
Interstate and country papers please note.
DETTMANN, AUSTIN & MACLEAN, Solicitors,
28 Martin Place Sydney. BW 5252, BW 9160.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Shades of things to come—in
the spring! New Zealand-owned
horses scooped the pool at the
Brisbane mid-winter racing
carnival, winning all four rich
handicaps, the Q.T.C.’s Strad-
broke (Knave) and Brisbane Cup
(Red Craze), and Doomben’s
Ten Thousand (El Khobar) and
Cup (Fair Chance). Slogan II
won the last Doncaster, while
other New Zealanders this
season landed both the Caulfield
Cup and Melbourne Cup, respec-
tive winners being Rising Fast
and Toparoa. For good measure,
Ray Ribbon added tl}e Wiiliams-
town Cup to the imposing list.
Fair Chance cleared out with
the £lO,OOO Doomben Cup,
starting at 16 to 1. He beat Mel-
bourne-trained Farquhar (20 to
1) and Teranyan (12 to 1),
owned and trained in Sydney*
Teranyan was the unlucky
horse of the Brisbane round —
second in the Stradbroke and
third in both the Doomben Ten
Thousand and Doomben Cup.
Still, those minor places netted
£3900. Teranyan could develop
into a class four-year-old.
Brisbane’s top filly, New Joy,
was set the tough task of carry-
ing 9.13 in the Doomben First
Two-year-old Handicap. She
had to run seven furlongs with
her close on 10st., but, ridden
by Sellwood, she had an easy
win. She has now had seven
wins and two minor placings
from nine starts. Sydney race-
goers should see her in, action
at Randwick in the spring, after
she has a brief spell. She is
by Newtown Wonder (imp.), sire
of speedsters; her dam, Joy
Court, by Agincourt (imp.),
won at Randwick.
Although he had just failed to
see out the two-mile Kensington
the week before, The Settler ran
right away over the last furlong
of the G.N. Steeple last Satur-
day and won as he liked from
Marten and Aussie Bear, with
the favorite, Bold Flare, fourth.
The Settler, who is difficult to
train and has always been
regarded as a likely bottler if
he could be got and kept right,
was in need of the Kensington
run, and in that race had to
make his own pace. In the G.N.
he simply followed it. It was
made to order for him.
It was a splendid run by Bold
Flare and a magnificent race
for the big sporting crowd who
always turn-up at Flemington,
rain or hail, for the National
Steeple. Bold Flare, a free.goer,
made his own pace with 10.9,
not an insuperable task, but at
least one less likely to succeed.
He is lightly-framed and,
naturally enough, probably not
up to high weights. He led all
the way gamely to halfway up
the straight, when the three
lightweights passed him.
Teedum was moving up stylishly
when he clouted heavily ; at the
weights Teedum gets, precise
jumping is essential. French
Knight, the S.A. surprising last-
minute favorite, went early.
Silver Fury, winner of the
First Granville Handicap for
three-year-olds at Flemington, is
a grey like his dam, Kitbag. He’s
by Hellespont (imp.) and is
raced by C. T. Truscott, for
whom he is trained by R.
Webster. Kitbag, bred in 1942,
is a Windbag mare from Princess
Pearl by Cimbrian, a good Mel-
bourne stayer a few seasons ago.
Despite his prior-start win at
Ballarat, Bright Blaze was only
third in the betting for the
Second Granville Handicap,
which he won in good style. He
•is trained by Stan Murphy for
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, and is by
Woodburn (imp.) from Los
Santos by Lo Zingaro (imp.)
from Los Gatos, a winner of the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
The “horses for courses”
theory worked out correctly at
Canterbury when Prince Jambo
and Lord Cynara, having both
won at that track a week earlier,
repeated their displays on Satur-
day in the Flying Handicap and
the Canterbury Park Handicap
respectively. Both horses are
known mudlarks, and' they had
tracks to. suit them. In fact, it’s
a long time since Canterbury
presented such a battered appear-
ance. It was interesting to watch
—in some cases with mixed
feelings—the way some horses
skimmed over the surface while
others almost got bogged down.
Few Sydney racegoers had
even heard the name Just
William before the colt cropped-
up at Canterbury mid-week fix-
ture to win the Second Two-
year-old Handicap at 100 to 1.
He started favorite for a
similar event at the same club’s
fixture three days later, and ran
third, coming from a long way
back. Just William is by Magic
Bow (imp.) from Cavalrossa by
Dashing Cavalier.
Winner of six races at New-
castle, the last three in succes-
sion, Vista del Mer made it four
in a row when she came with a
fast late run to down the more
speedy beginners in the Second
Ashbury Stakes at Canterbury.
The tbree-year-old filly, now
trained by Tom Black at New-
castle, is another of the smart
Port Vistas. Her dam, Shirlmar,
is by Marabou, and the filly
belongs to the family which pro-
duced noted English sire
Hyperion.
It is seldom that two closely
related greys win at the same
meeting, but at the Canterbury
mid-week fixture Clear Profit
and Windsor Grey, both trained
by P. Mulry, were successful.
Clear Profit is by Dentur (imp.)
from Regal Bride, while Windsor
Grey, also from Regal Bride, is
a three-year-old gelding by
William the Fourth (imp.). Regal
Bride has the Carbine blood in
her make-up. Bred in 1945, she
is by Sir Regal Fox from
Chevelure by Highfield (imp.). %
Newcastle chief steward R.
Dawbarn handed out a lecture
to Sydney jockey Bill Feggans
after he’d weighed-in 31b.
heavier than he had weighed-out
on Captain Cragg in the First
Improvers’ Handicap. The dif-
ference was due to Feggans
having had a small cup of tea
before taking the mount. Cap-
tain Cragg was narrowly
beaten ; connections could have
been in a spot of bother had
he won. As it was, Feggans had
to weigh-in five-cfuid.
Sydney Turf Club’s £2lOO
Winter Handicap (seven fur-
longs) has been won by good-
class sprinters, and a smart field
is expected for next Saturday’s
race. The well-performed Gay
Vista, last-start winner in Welter
class with 11.1, heads the weights
with 9.9 —the allowable maxi-
mum. He will be strongly
fancied, as the class falls away
sharply after the first half-dozen
or so in the weights. Outside
Gay Vista, horses likely to be
prominent at the finish include
Hans, Lindbergh and Prince
Jambo.
Sydney sprinter Apple Bay,
winner of Doomben’s Ten
Thousand last year, and the
much-better-performed Prince
Cortauld (£49,801 in stakes)
should do well in America ;
they’re going by boat, the
planned air-trip having been
cancelled. Their new owners
should be heartened by the
recent performances in the U.S.
of Prince Morvi and earlier of
Nagpuni, former Sydney
gallopers. Prince Mprvi won his
third American race, the $20,000
Longfellow Handicap at Mon-
mouth Park the other day, run-
ning the mile in 1.38, which
would be easy time for the
Prince op any Sydney track.
+ +
In the third 1948 Test, at
Manchester, with advantage very
much England’s way, Cyril
Washbrook, on the third day,
top-scored with 85 not-out, but
on the fourth day rain prevented
any play, and, with play limited
on the last day, the game was
drawn. An English paper
quipped “England’s hero on the
third day, Washbrook; Aus-
tralia’s hero on the fourth,
Washout.” (Washout, also
played a handy knock for Aus-
tralia in this third 1956 Test.)
Speaking of Washbrook, one of
England’s heroes on the first day
this time, his comeback certainly
proved to be no washout.
After an opening over each
from Lindwall and Archer,
John Arlott and Norman
Yardley decided the wicket was
“easy-paced” and “full of runs.”
With England 3-17 (Archer 3-3
off 8.4 overs) Arlott suddenly
discovered “vim” and “devil”
in the pitch. But there was no
need to blame the pitch—it was a
particularly hostile opening spell
by both bowlers, Archer
especially. Similarly Australia’s
unseemly batting-collapse on the
second day can be put down to
good bowling rather than to
undue tricks in the wicket.
* * *
In Dunedin, at times in rain,
N.Z. defeated South Africa in
the first Rugby Union Test,
10-6. It was N.Z.’s first Test
win over S.A. since 1937. N.Z.’s
points came mainly from winger
Ron Jarden, with a lovely try
and two conversions—Jarden is
probably the best and fastest
Rugby Union winger in the
world.
The 13th round of Sydney’s
Rugby Union, played on heavy
grounds, proved unlucky for
Gordon, which was beaten by
Manly 15-8 (though Gordon
didn’t really deserve to win),
and lucky for Randwick, which,
in a heated game, had its share
of good fortune in beating low-
ranking Eastwood 12-6 —last
time they’d met the Greens had
beaten ’Wood 35-0. Randwick
is now alone on top of the table.
In the other games the premiers,
University, went down for the
secon4 successive week, this
time to East 9-3 ; North beat
Drummoyne 8-3; St. George
sconed Parramatta 21-5.
* * *
In Saturday’s V.F.L. games
Melbourne, at the M.C.G., with
rovers Spencer and Ridley in
particular in fine fettle, was too
good, for Carlton, which, how-
ever, fought well, 14.10-12.7.
Geelong, now in second place,
gave a repeat dose of St. Kilda’s
medicine the previous round to
weakened North, 19.15-7.5.
Collingwood just got home from
South by a goal, 11.9-10.9, after
a draw seemed likely ; St. Kilda,
while having less of the run of
play, was very accurate near the
goal, and won by a point from
Footscray, 13.2-11.13. In the
other games Essendon defeated
Fitzroy, mainly in the last
quarter, 9.13-8.10, and Rich-
mond beat Hawthorn, 8.6-3.13.
• • • •
'Geelong skipper Bob Davis
and vice-captain Russ Renfrey
both reached a milestone in the
one game, against South Mel-
bourne recently. Davis, who
joined the Cats in 1948, played
his 150th game; he’s very fast,
called sometimes the “Geelong
Flyer,” and the overworked
adjective “dynamic” best
describes most of his football.
Renfrey, ruckman and back-
pocket defender, who began in
1946, reached his 200th game,
only the fourth Geelong player
to have done so ; he’s turning it
in this year, hoping this will be
his third premiership year.
* * *
“Keima”: Big Queensland
and Australian Rugby League
forward Brian Davies, who is
right at his top this year, had a
busy week lately. The first Satur-
day he was in the third Test
against N.Z. in Sydney; on the
Sunday, for Brothers against
Norths, he was at first left on
the sideline, but went on when
someone was hurt, and revitalised
the “pigs,” who’d been. playing
badly; on the Tuesday night he
was the best forward on the field
when Brothers played Wests in
the final of the Pike Cup ; and
on the Saturday he led Brothers
in a fighting recovery against
Valleys. Davies was on the
winning side in each game.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
.manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins..x 3i ins.,
65 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson A O’Sullivan [|j
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and Printers
304 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
If you really care for
your ear always use
'C?
„ G>
O
Just like people, car engines respond to kind-
ness. Try it and see. Give your car the
blended, balanced,, cushioning lubrication
of ENERGOL. Then sit back, relax and
wait for your reward—easy starting,
smooth running and a firm refusal
by your engine to cause you undue
expense or trouble. A planned
programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and
your car on the best
of terms —particularly
on resale value.
W 1
m
/ ■
as
nA complete range of
ENERGOL premium
grade automotive oils
and ENERGREASES and
Special ENERGOL Visco-
Static 4-grades-in-l Motor Oil,
specially recommended for
new or well-conditioned engines,
is available where you see these pumps.
ENERGOL
LUB RI CATION SERVI C E
SUPER
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,
an associate of The British Petroleum Company_Limited^
“I like jumpers with bumps
in them,” he announced after a
while, and heaved himself away
from the counter and went to
the door.
Louise went to the street with
Tiger. Suddenly a black sedan
screeched around the comer,
and when it came closer she
saw that Pete was at the wheel.
“It’s Pete!” Tiger exclaimed.
He called to Shirley, “The car’s
here! Come on!”
Shirley hesitated.
Tiger ran over and grabbed
her by the arm.
“Turn green an’ go, for God’s
sake!” he urged, and hurried
her outside.
HE pushed her into the front
seat beside Pete and
slammed the door. Then he
jumped in the- back seat with
Louise, and the car lurched off
before the back door closed.
“What’s all the hurry?”
Louise (Called, and broke off in
a fit of laughter. “This is
gonna be all right!”
She squealed as Pete swung
the car around into the beach-
road and headed away from
Melbourne. Tiger put l his arm
around her when she swayed
against him. The engine roared
as Pete forced the car along.
Louise clung to Tiger in fright
every time the car lurched to
the wrong side of the road
to pass other cars.
“Hep it up, boy!” Tiger
shouted. “Hep it! ”
“Oh, this is gonna be all
right!” Louise squealed.
Shipley sat white and silent in
the front seat.
When they had gone nearly
10 miles, Pete slowed down.
“I think there’s something
wrong with the car,’ he said.
“It seems like it’s gettin’ tired.
Maybe we ought to let it rest
for a while.”
Louise giggled knowingly,
and snuggled closer to Tiger.
Pete swung the car into a
break in the trees along the fore-
shore. It was impossible to see
a thing outside the car when he
switched oft the headlights.
Tiger held Louise by the
shoulder and then pulled her
closer. Her lips were parted
when they met his. His hand
slipped from her shoulder down-
wards, After a moment, slie
pulled away.
“Don’t squeeze me like that!
You’ll bruise me.”
Tiger laughed softly. “No-
body would ever see a bruise
there.”
In the front seat, Pete leaned
over Shirley. She backed
against the door.
“No —please don’t —I don’t
like it.”
“What’s wrong?” he said
soothingly. “Don’t you like
me?”
“I don’t know you,” Shirley
said.
“I like you,” Pete said. “I
like you very much.”
“For God’s sake, you in the
front seat!” Tiger protested.
“What’s all the noise about?”
“Yeah, stop talking,” Louise
echoed.
“You’re distractin’ my con-
centration,” added Tiger.
A giggle bubbled up in Louise,
but Tiger smothered it with a
savage kiss.
After a while, Shirley let Pete
kiss her. She felt his mouth
pressing wetly against her cheek,
searching for her lips. She
turned her head away, but his
lips were there, hungrily nib-
bling at her cheek and ear and
neck. In spite of herself, she
felt thrilling shivers running
through her body. He was
strong, overwhelming. Suddenly
she knew she could not resist
any more. And so their lips
came together. She panted,
partly for breath, when the first
hard, long kiss on her lips ended.
He kissed her again, harder
than before, and kept on kis-
sing her. She began to whimper
softly, almost inaudibly, then she
suddenly squirmed away from
him, pushing his hand away.
“Don’t!” she cried. “No
more! Please! ”
“What’s wrong?” Pete said
roughly. “You know you like
it.”
“You know what’s wrong.
And I don’t like it.”
Pete’s voice was harsh. “Once
you start something, you gotta
finish it! ”
“Shut up in the front seat,”
Tiger said.
“I think we should go back
now,” said Shirley in a strained
voice. “It’s getting late.”
“You’re a big girl now,”
Louise mocked her. “It’s time
you stopped goin’ on like a kid.
You get no posies for bein’ pure,
so you might as well have a
bit of fun while you can!”
“Yeah —you wouldn’t want
people blamin’ you for some-
thing you haven’t done.”
Shirley’s voice rose angrily.
“I don’t care what you think.
I’m not going to stay. And if
you don’t drive me home now,
I’IF get out and walk.”
“Go on, then —walk! ”
She pushed open the door, and
jumped out. As Pete tried to
follow her, she slammed the
door and it jammed on his
fingers. She ran to the roadway
and kept on running. Some-
one was stumbling through the
bushes after her. She ran into
the front garden of a house on
the opposite side of the road and
hid behind a hedge.
PETE stood at the edge of
the roadway, shaking his
right hand and feeling it
gingerly. He looked in both
directions, and then waited in
the shadows for a few minutes
before he went back to the car.
“Couldn’t find he told
the other two.
“Well, what do we do now?”
Tiger asked. “Four’s company,
but three’s a crowd.”
“I’ll drive back to St. Kilda,
and then you can have the car
on your own,” Pete said.
“Suits me:”
The tea-tree scrub scraped the
paint as Pete backed the car out.
A police-car flicked by as they
neared the road. Pete didn’t
see the police-car until he passed
it a minute later at 50 m.p.h.
He heard the full-throated roar
of the powerful car behind him
as the police began to give chase.
His eyes jumped to the rear-
vision mirror.
“Demons! ”
There was panic in his voice.
He stepped it up to 60, 65. He
was knocking 70 when it struck
a greasy patch on the road and
swung around in two complete
circles, veered from one side of
the road to the other,. mounted
the kerb and became wedged
against a lamp-post. The police-
car swerved in front of them.
Pete tried to reverse, but
couldn’t. He jumped out and
ran for the scrub that fringed
the foreshore.
Tiger tried to follow, but
Louise held him.
“Don’t leave me! ” she
screamed. “Stop with me.”
“Let go of me!” he shouted,
and hit her in the face with his
fist.
Pete ran into the tea-tree scrub,
but a policeman was right
behind him. A sharp twig hit
him in the eye. He reeled and
fell. He had almost regained his
feet, when the full weight of the
cop bore him to the ground
again. J , , .
When the cop dragged him
back to the car, he saw that
the others had Tiger and the
girl. He heard one of the patrol
reporting over the police-radio
that the black sedan stolen out-
side Luna Park at 10.50 had been
recovered.
At . the police-station, nobody
believed Louise when she said
that she didn’t know the car
was “hot.” They gave her a
basin of warm water an£ a piece
of cottonwool to bathe her
cheek when they took down
the particulars about her.
Darkness had begun to
give way to light when
Shirley turned into the street
where she lived. The walk
had been a nightmare. Step
after step after step. Shifting
pictures in her mind while her
legs kept moving, going left,
right, left, right, left—she had
walked eight miles.
A policeman leaning from the
window of a patrol-car which
had drawn quietly alongside
her as'she walked. “What are
you doing out at this time of
night?”
A man offering her £2, and
following her for more than a
block when she refused it.
A milkman giving her a bottle
of milk. “I’m sorry I can’t pay
for it. I haven’t got any
money.”
Louise and Pete and Tiger.
Being trapped in the car.
But now all the pictures had
stopped. All feeling had
drained out of her now, leav-
ing her mind blank except for
the one thought that kept her
legs moving: to get home and
crawl in between the sheets of
her own bed.
Wearily she walked along the
street to her front gate, dragged
her tired feet around to the
back door and tiptoed to her
room. She shut the door quietly
and closed her eyes before she
put on her bedroom light. She
leaned against the wall and
blinked;
Her father lifted himselt
heavily out of a chair placed by
her bed.
“I didn’t think you was com-
ing home at all. I thought you
must’ve found somewhere else
to sleep.”
Shirley’s eyes widened. Panic
came to her when she remem-
bered her position. She raised
the back of her hand to her
mouth as if to stop a scream.
Her father lumbered across the
room and stared into her face,
his lips twitching with suppressed
rage.
“Where’ve you been?” he
shouted, his anger suddenly
loosing itself. “Half-past-three
in the morning when you get
home! Is this the way you
treat your mother and me?” He
grabbed her by the shoulders
and shook her furiously. “Is
it?” he shouted. “Is it?”
She fell screaming to the
floor.
He towered above her and
stopped shouting for a moment,
suddenly at a loss, staring wildly
about the room. His eyes roved
aimlessly until they lit upon the
heavy leather belt he had kept
beside the chair.
Shirley screamed when it first
hit her, but after a while the
screams died away to a con-
tinuous low moaning that rose
with each cut of the belt and
died away slowly and rose again.
Her mother came into the
room*, crying herself, and took
the belt and led her father out.
He swung around as he
reached the door. “The little
bitch!” he said.
“That’s enough now, John,”
Shirley’s mother pleaded.
She came back in a minute
and helped her daughter to bed.
“What’d he hit me for before
I could explain?” Shirley
sobbed. “I didn’t do anything
wrong.” She shook violently
with a pain that was as much
mental as physical. “I wish I
was dead!” she cried.
Her mother was crying as
though she, too, had been hit.
“Your father wouldn’t send any
flowers to your funeral, that’s
for sure,” she said bitterly.
“Not after what you’ve done
tonight.”
Shirley opened her mouth to
protest, but said nothing. She
saw that it was useless and felt
a new wave »df bitterness surge
up in her.
Her mother turned out the
light and left the room.
TRAIN JOURNEY
Beside the carriage squats a
mountain;
on the mountain squats a tree ;
a cloud is dabbing at the
branches:
all contrived to pleasure me.
Sunshine agitates the hours;
the township in the hill's embrace
pauses as I rollick past
and modestly averts her face.
In munching cliques cows
congregate;
while dull uncertain judges in
the guise of sheep are. startled at
the train’s sleek evidence of sin.
Flickering birds on poles by
boulders;
magpies starched with day and
night ...
O why does everything so render
such extravagant delight ?
Because I am a traveller
transformed, whom every object
charms ; '
because I am a lover hurtling
toward the country of your arms.
VIC.
LAURENCE COLLINSON.


Set off your home with a
low cost
durable
roof in
HARDIES
H&o-CbritotVt, CoVttusetfed
FIBROLITE
BECP. TRADE MAR*
A “Fibrolite” New Contour Corrugated roof will protect your valuable
home for a lifetime. Made specially for Australian conditions, it is rustproof,
sea-air proof, minimises condensation, cool in summer and. improves with
age. “Fibrolite” costs less too! The neat 3" side lap fixing offers you a
saving of up to 10% on the cost of roofing. Build the modern way specify
“Fibrolite” New Contour Corrugated Sheets for an economical, durable
and attractive roof. Write today for further information on the roof that
is right for life.
“Cut your roofing overhead with
Hardie’s New Contour Corrugated "Fibrolite"Asbestos-Cement Sheets
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Box 3935, Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King
Street.
Please send me illustrated leaflet for “FIBROLITE”
New Contour Corrugated Roofing FREE and
POST FREE.
NAME .....
ADDRESS
CH42/66 B
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
' i
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(,Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICEt
10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4887 (2 lines)
L. F. THOKPE, MANAGES.
UNCABLED
ADDITION S
IMPOST CUTS
/COMMENTING on the latest
Australian import - cuts,
“Manchester Guardian” sug-
gests that [in Australia] disinfla-
tionary forces might be upper-
most by the end of the year and
“the import-restrictions which
have become progressively
tighter since 1952 may gradually
be allowed to ease a little.”
Against that possibility, the
same paper notes a little
gloomily that “experience during
the past four years suggests that
a more likely outcome of the
increased protection which the
exclusion of foreign competitors
gives to Australian industries
is a further rise in internal costs.”'
“The longer this process goes
on the closer Australia will get
to the point when only a drastic
devaluation can save the day.”
In a further editorial
diagnosis, London “Financial
Times” adds that “there would
be greater confidence in the effi-
cacy of this measure [import-
cuts] if the reasons for the fail-
ure of the earlier import-cuts to
produce their intended effect
had been properly established, .
and a determined effort made to
remedy the administrative
defects responsible for the fail-
ure” :
“Three factors are mentioned
by Sir Arthur Fadden.. One was
the 'extremely high demand for
petrol, which had swollen the
import-bill in an unexpected
fashion. Secondly, there was
the carryover of old licences
issued as much as a year ago.
And, finally, a certain volume of
additional imports had ' been
allowed to come through the net,
as a result of a process which is
euphemistically termed ‘admini-
strative flexibility’ in interpret-
ing the letter of the restrictions.
“Almost certainly, this last
factor has been much the most
important. Whatever over-
spending there has been in either
the Category A (essential
imports) or the Category B
(inessential imports) has not, so
far as one can tell, been on a
massive scale. It is the loophole
of the ‘administrative category’
—the group of imports governed
by ad hoc decisions made by
Government officials deciding
individual cases on their merits
—which has made all the differ-
ence. The latest regulations
appear to do something to
narrow this loophole ; but they
certainly have not closed it
altogether. t
“To a large extent the items
included in the administrative
category consist of capital equip-
ment. And it is precisely in these
things that a well-meaning
official is likely to see an over-
whelming urgency, and to
interpret the rules, if he can, in
such a way as to allow these
imports to come in. After all,
he may argue, the future pro-
ductive-power of the country
depends upon them.
“It must be admitted, top, that
the Australian Government has
never given the clear lead that
would be necessary in order to
induce officials to act in a more
restrictive spirit. This leads
straight to the heart of the
matter, which is the ambivalence
of the Government on the need
to curb the pace of economic
expansion.
“So far it has got no further,
in public, than hinting that the
recent rate of capital investment
may be too high for comfort in
the balance of payments. v
“Until it faces the fact that
there must be a series of
deliberate and painful capital
cuts in order to achieve inter-
national solvency for Aus-
tralia, officials are likely to go
on interpreting the import-
restrictions in the generous spirit
which tends to stultify the pur-
pose of the whole exercise.”
Yugoslavia
Press - comment on the
apparent reconciliation between
Marshal Tito's Yugoslavia and
Moscow: *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Among the nouveaux riches of
the cold war no one has fared
more famously than Marshal
Tito. He has received, largely
as a token of confidence in him-
self, nearly £4OO million in
American aid, some £165 million
in credits from the Soviet bloc,
and over £3O million in aid and
credits fronA this country
[Britain] and France.
“This high price has been paid,
quite rightly, to defend Yugo-
slavia’s independence against the
Communist neighbors, who
would have fallen on her had
they dared. When Stalin was at
his most truculent the men of
Belgrade barred the way to the
Mediterranean; but since his
death they have basked in the
wintry sun of Moscow
appeasement.
“It [the Soviet-Yugoslav recon-
ciliation] is a strange turn of
events, yet it was to be expected.
If ever the pendulum swung
against Stalin, then the day of
Tito and other nationalist Com-
munists would come. What will
now happen, how far Belgrade
can preserve its independence in
a reconciliation with Moscow,
what the effect of all this will be
in Eastern Europe cannot yet be
judged.
“The record suggests that in
skilful and tough negotiations
with the Russians the Marshal
can hold his own, and this is
not the moment for the friends
he has made in the West to
weaken his position.
“On the other hand who can
tell what will be the effect for
the Yugoslavs of renewed contact
between the Soviet Communist
Party and their own? Around
London "Daily Express”
“AT LEAST THERE WAS NO DAMNED LEFT-WING
NONSENSE ABOUT HIM!"
and below Tito there are men
far less flexible, far more
doctrinaire than he is, men who
have never liked his discreet
flirtation with the West. Moscow
will certainly cultivate them, if
it can.”
,* * *
“U.S. News, and World
Report” : “Marshal Tito is run-
ning Yugoslavia as a Communist
country built with U.S. aid. It’s
the only Communist nation in
the world still getting U.S. help.
“You can see modern U.S.
jet-fighters on any military
airport in Yugoslavia. When
Tito puts any of the 30 divisions
of the Yugoslav Army on
parade they march with U.S.
equipment—U.S. tanks, guns,
jeeps and trucks.
“Throughout Yugoslavia you
find factories in operation with
machinery made in the U.S.A.
On the plains of Croatia, in the
valleys of Slovenia and Serbia,
Yugoslav farmers are working
their fields with U.S. farm-
machinery. For eight years the
Yugoslav economy has depended
heavily on U.S. loans, credits and
outright grants to keep going.
“AH of this represents a $ 1000-
million gamble for the U.S.
Since 1948, when he broke with
Joseph Stalin’s Russia, Tito has
received $5OO-million-worth of
U.S. military aid. Economic aid,
over and above the $3OO-million-
worth of U.S. relief-funds
pumped into Yugoslavia at the
end of World War 11, totals
about $4OO million in the same
period.”
The same: “Yugoslavia’s
Army now has so much U.S.
equipment that it is dependent
on q $5O-million flow of parts
and supplies from the U.S. to
keep going. Tito, once again,
would become completely de-
pendent on Russia if U.S. aid
ended.
“Tito himself, in Moscow*
coolly said: ‘Our relations with
the U.S. will not suffer.’ And
Tito’s friends say he knows he
will be in trouble with his own
Yugoslavs if he breaks his U.S.
tie^”
* * «
New York “Herald Tribune ” ;
“President Eisenhower’s policy
of taking a new look at
American relations with Yugo-
slavia but opposing any hasty
changes in the existing economic
and military co-operation pro-
gramme is a sane and sensible
approach to a touchy problem.
“Marshal Tito’s visit to Russia
and the warm greetings he
exchanged with Bulganin,
Khrushchev and Voroshilov have
stirred demands in Congress for
an immediate cessation of grants
to Yugoslavia. Undeniably, the
feast of cordiality in Moscow has
disturbing connotations. But to
respond to it with an abrupt and
hastily considered shift in
American policy might well
defeat the purposes for which
the military-security programme
was established.
“So far, at least, Tito remains
an independent .national leader
being wooed by the same country
which strove vainly to bring
about his overthrow eight years
ago. He must realise it is his
very independence that gives him
strength and stature in Russia no
less than in the West.”
Poznan Postscript
London “Daily Mail” on the
significance of the uprising in
Poznan (Poland):
“What happened in Poznan,
June, 1956, was an exact parallel
of what happened in East Berlin,
June, 1953. For a moment the
iron grip of Russian Com-
munism was relaxed, and at once
the subject people rose.
“In each case they had been
granted ‘new freedoms’ and in
each case they used them to
revolt. That showed singular
ingratitude by the Germans and
the Poles. Or did it?
“In a normal society it would
have done, but we are not deal-
ing with a normal society. The
twice-repeated uprising shows
beyond doubt that Communism
can only exist by terrorism.
Abolish the secret-police, the
firing-squad, and the rigged trial,
and it cannot five.”
U.S. Foreign Aid
Some indications of American
mixed feelings about foreign aid
have been reflected* in the ups-
and-downs of this year’s
appropriations.
President Eisenhower’s original
request for $4900 million was
cut by the House of Represen-
tatives to $3BOO million. Sub-
sequently, “Mr. Eisenhower set
all his lieutenants in motion to
persuade the leaders of both
parties in the Senate that such a
reduction would be a severe blow
to American foreign policy”
(London “Economist”), and the
Foreign Relations Committee of
the Senate then restored $7OO
million of the cut, including


av’.-m
zm'itm
•• </ • rWmflt •• *>V ’v* •a-*• *
' -.. •• • J> • • v ) ;•• v ‘;v *• -v;- r; v, x
' *• . ’. s!&i' I"•'•‘•Vi?'' i-«jr-x‘*’• .
7 rfM <>. I > >:« ■, ,*
i wßmv » v * f - .. •* \
'l rV:;\>^V'v;v'‘
■ «r• s • m
&
r "
The saw that throws t
• •••’•;• ;•
m
m
Mm
n
V.
f
S » 'v«
dust and chips
■3*
I /
7
!,-
/ A
.rv
,» 7/
fin
L A
mm
•w,
l*
AWAY from you!
You work in greater comfort . . . you have a
better view of blade and log when you use the
Saw that throws chips and sawdust away from
you.
That Saw is the shaft-driven MOBILCO
. . . the versatile Mobilco with blade direction
either way, towards you or away* from you,
according to your choice or the particular work
you're doing. To swing the blade from one side
of the shaft to the other, right through 180°, you
merely r-each forward over the handles to the
indexing lever and move it from one side to the
other. This is only one of the features of the
Mobilco, the shaft-driven machine that is
engineered from end to end . . . the machine
that in a very few years has become Australia's
largest selling Swing Saw . . •
PLUS
THE PROVED MOBILCO ATTACHMENTS
You might not want to dig
holes or bore posts with your
Swing Saw right now . . . but
you may later. Isn't it wise
then to buy the machine that
will take all these quick-fit
attachments? And isn't it
sound to buy the machine
that is used everywhere and
with spares and service avail-
able all over Australia? You
can get a Mobilco (the
machine With the 6 months
guarantee) quickly for cash or
on terms ... If you would
like to know a bit more, just
send that coupon to us today.
DRAG S£W
RIPPING LEG
CROSS CUTTING BENCH
(UPPING BENCH
POST HOLE DIGGER
8$
*5
POST BORER
QUICK REPLY COUPON *
Send me your colour catalogue on the
Mobilco Shaft-driven Saw end its attach-
ments today.
NAME —...
ADDRESS
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
fvrfnl S,,V u**2 te «£ d -' A “burn, N.S.W. YX 1244-5. Telegrams: Motllco,
wn 7771 H nn Off, fe:4lo-416 Whitehorse Rd., Mitcham, Victoria,
WU 2771 (10 lines) Branches: Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. - Agents:
Launceston and Hobart. Authorised dealers throughout Australia.
$lOO million for a special fund
for Asia. .
Many of the American objec-
tions to foreign aid, “New York
Times” notes, are due to “mis-
conceptions” arising from ‘ the
old and misleading label of
‘foreign aid,’ which to some
people implies foreign doles and
charity and to others a bribe to
buy the friendship or support of
other nations”:
■ “Such views are false, and are
responsible for foreign suspicions
which impair the mutual benefits
of the programme.
“Mr. Eisenhower rightly
emphasises that the mutual-
security programme is an
integral part —a 10-per-cent, part
—of our $40,000-million defence
programme ; that we help others
in order to help ourselves ; and
that we are not trying to buy
either gratitude or an involuntary
and, therefore, shaky alliance.
“We give military aid to our
allies and friends because they
stand with us in the defence of
a free world, and because, if they
were forced to reduce their
military potential for lack of our
aid, we would have to increase
our own defences at far greater
cost.
“We also give economic aid
to free nations in order to save
them from sliding behind the
Iron Curtain. By so doing, we
help to keep them within the
free world politically and also
expand the free-world market
that is our own economic
breathing-space, in which we
now sell our goods at the rate
of nearly $17,000 million a year.
‘This trade is one of the props
of our own prosperity, and that
is the reason why the Soviets
seek to contract this market
either by political expansion or
by economic competition in the
hope of precipitating the free-
world depression for which they
have been looking hopefully
since the end- of the war.”
Atomic Co-operation
The U.S. having been gener-
ally cagey on releasing infor-
mation about its own progress
in atomic matters, the new
Anglo-American agreement on
the subject is being hailed on
two counts by the British press:
first, Uncle Sam is less wor-
ried about the possibility of
such British defections as Fuchs,
Pontecorvo, Burgess and Mac-
lean ; and second, British atomic
know - how r is su ffi c i e n 11 y
advanced to be of distinct interest
to the U.S.
Typical comment:
London “Observer”: “The
agreement, which provides for
an exchange of. nuclear material
and information on the nuclear
propulsion of ships and air-
craft, is a tribute both to the
persuasive powers of the Prime
Minister and the increasingly
confident attitude of the Eisen-
hower Administration. The
great American experience in
building small reactors and
nuclear-powered submarines will
now be available to us
[Britain]. To have access to
,the large American stocks of
plutonium and enriched uranium
will help greatly to lighten the
economic burden on our own
atomic installations.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “While
Harwell [U.K. atomic establish-
ment] does not share the
American enthusiasm for
atomic-powered aircraft, the
Admiralty has recently commis-
sioned a design-study for an
atomic submarine, and the three
companies involved in this pro-
ject are working on it now at
Harwell. If the agreement
means that they will have access
to data on the American atomic
submarines Nautilus and Sea
Wolf, it may save them as much
as two years’ work and lead
to the launching of a British-
built submarine under atomic
power within three years; it
took six to design and develop
the Nautilus.”
# * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
biggest overlap of efforts in the
atomic field will still remain.
None of the Anglo-American
agreements has ever touched on
the making of bombs. The new
one is equally empty. Yet the
design and development of bombs
is now probably the most expen-
sive development-project under
way in this country [Britain].
In money terms, it would not be
a bad guess to say that more
than £lOO million is spent each
year in this country on making
nuclear bombs. This would be
more than enough to keep the
Coal Board going, and enough to
build half-a-dozen brand-new
atomic-power stations.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “A
reasonable deduction from the
new widening of British-
American atomic exchanges is
that Britain has done well
enough in recent research to
make the Americans think twice
about the wisdom of shutting
her out. It has been shown
clearly in the past that only
British decisions to ‘go it alone 5
(most notably in the case of the
hydrogen-bomb) have had any
power to loosen the tight grip
America keeps on every par-
tide of really useful informa-
tion.”
The same: “If Britain had not
been compelled to build her own
stockpile of atomic weapons,
including even the hydrogen-
bomb —and it has been esti-
mated that we now have it in
our power to destroy all the
principal cities of the world,
if we so desire —it seems incon-
ceivable that we should now be
in serious economic trouble.
There has been a fantastic dupli-
cation of effort in the defence-
expenditure of the free-world.
Had this effort been made in
full co-operation, it might have
resulted either in a greatly re-
duced burden for both countries
or in a' technically more effec-
tive structure of defence.”
Antarctica
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the question of
ownership of a* “vast, unin-
habited region, almost as big as
the United States and Europe
combined”:
“Conflicting claims to Ant-
arctic territory have already
brought interested nations to the
verge of war. In 1953 Chile and
Argentina were planning a joint
naval operation to restore cer-
tain of their bases in Antarctica
which had been dismantled by
British forces. If the British
attacked this expedition, as the
then Chilean Foreign Minister
anticipated, the two countries
intended to call for aid from the
Organisation of American States
on the ground that it was a
violation of American territory.
“Formal claims to Antarctic
territory have been entered by
Britain, France, Norway, New
Zealand, Australia, Chile and
Argentina. The United States,
which has done by far the most
investigation and research there,
has made no claim of its own.
The American position has
always been that discovery is not
a valid claim to sovereignty
unless the discovery is followed
by actual settlement.
“But settlement does not seem
far away today. The continent
had a population of 2500 last
January, and 200 stayed behind
to sit out the long polar winter.
Most of these men are Ameri-
cans.
“United States pre-eminence
in Antarctic survey and explora-
tion surely gives this country a
leading position in the claims-
race, if such a race must be
undertaken.”
Various Voices
Sir Roger Makins (British
Ambassador to U.S. ): “We are
living in what is undoubtedly a
new phase in international life.
I do not mean to say that Gov-
ernments have altered their
objectives. If they alter them at
all; they do it very slowly. But
they can alter the policies by
which they hope to attain those
objectives. This is what the
Soviet is doing at the moment.”
Sir David Gamfnans (British
Conservative M.P. ): “What has
happened to the motor-car trade
[in Great Britain] is a painful
reminder of what could easily
happen elsewhere. This has
occurred not because someone is
to blame, but because our goods
are either too dear or bec'ause
our competitors abroad turn-out
something which the buying-
public likes better. Our real boss
is not some individual sitting in
his office, but a finicky buyer in
Australia or India.”


Research in Industry
No. 26 in a Series
2«
<0
ELEMENTS. In daily speech the word “element” is too often used
wrongly or, carelessly. “The elements” suggest “the weather,” and
“elementary” something easy or simple. To men of science, however,
an element describes any substance which cannot be split up into a
simpler one by ordinary chemical methods. A dictionary definition
is that an element is “the simplest known constituent of all compound
substances.” This recognition is based on a theory first propounded
by Robert Boyle, a British chemist, in 1661. In all nature there are
only ninety-three of these “Elements.” From these are built up
every single thing we eat or use or see. Research in the chemical
industry is devoted to discovering how to separate elements which in
nature exist in a combined form, to find out how they can be made
to combine into substances usefal to man, and then to evolve methods
of making them do so “to order” on a commercial scale.
1.C.1. uses 50 or so of the elements known to science to make no
fewer than 12,000 different products.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
1C
>1249. L.868.3828'
FREE BOOKLET: The recent series of ICI announcements,
Elements of an Industry, has now been prepared in booklet form. It
contains information of interest to students of chemistry and is
available free of charge on application to:—
“INDUSTRY,” ICIANZ LTD., P.O. BOX 1911, MELBOURNE.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
sense not to open the conversa-
tion by asking me how I felt.
“Did the skeeters bite you?”
she asked.
“I wouldn’t know,” I answered
sourly.
“I bet you wouldn’t. And I
bet the skeeters wouldn’t, either,
once they got a whiff off the
fumes.” She handed me the
tea. “I thought you’d want to
get an early start, so I made this
for you.”
Not only had she saved me
from wrecking Carson’s tilly;
she had got up at daylight to
make tea for me and make sure
I was in a fit state to drive home.
Instead of thanking her
properly, I took the cup and
stared at it moodily.
“There’s some of that foul-
smelling rum in a bottle in the
washtub,” she volunteered.
“Would you like a reviver of
that first?”
I shuddered. “Pour it over
the Stewart brothers,” I told her.
“And then put a match to them.”
* The tea revived me sufficiently
to allow me to take an interest
in my surroundings. I was in
the maid’s-room under the
house, Carla told me, but they
had no maid now. Until they
got another one I could use the
room any time I liked.
“Look, Carla,” I said, “I think
I made a bit of a goat of myself
last- night. Must have, by the
way I feel this morning. It strikes
me I’ve either been full or half-
full every time I’ve been to this
house. But never again. If you
ever have to put me to bed again
it’ll be because I’ve been run
over by a goanna. Now, if you’ll
tell me where my shoes are I’ll
get going.”
She pulled my shoes from a
drawer in the dressing-table and
laughed.
“You know,” she said, “you
sound exactly like Wonga
Watkins.”
(To be continued next week)
Dear Mr. Pig
By WILLIS RILEY
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
January 12, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig,
Your letter of January 5,
enclosing plans and specifications
for your proposed house in
Fairyville, has been received.
You omitted to forward, the
£5 licence-fee which, in accord-
ance with Regulation Xb4, Sec-
tion 23, sub-section Ba, para-
graph 7, of the Fairyville Build-
ing and Town Planning Regula-
tions, 1907, must be paid in
advance.
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
January 27, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig, '
Your letter of January 13,
enclosing cheque for £5, has been
received.
Your plans and specifications
have been forwarded to the
Shire Engineer for his considera-
tion and comments.
You will be advised of the
result of your application in due
course.
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
February 14, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig,
The Shire Engineer has for-
warded to me his report on your
plans and specifications for your
proposed house at Fairyville.
Your intention to build in <
brick is in conformity with the
building-regulations, but your
plan shows no provision for
windows; and both back- and
front-doors need not, we think,
be made of armor-plated steel.
In fact, your design seems to
be of an excessively strong
nature, so much so that the Shire
Engineer has appended a note
stating that it gives the impres-
sion of being a fortress rather
than a country residence.
Permission to build is there-
fore refused in the meantime.
Would you please forward
amended plans showing provi-
sion for windows and a lighter
type of door ?
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville'Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
February 27, 1956
Dear Mr. Pig,
Your letter of February 15.
Your explanation of the
necessity for building such a
solid type of house on your land
•at Fairyville is not entirely
satisfactory.
You state that it is necessary
because of some trouble with a
neighbor, Mr. Wolf. Surely that
is a matter for the police. We
feel we cannot relax our build-
ing-regulations because of a feud
with a neighbor.
You state also that you have
had some heavy financial com-
mitments lately through the
deaths of your two brothers.
May I extend my sympathy, and
suggest that, if finance is a
problem, you might consider
building in a cheaper material.
Have you thought of straw ?
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
March 13, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig,
I would have replied to your
three letters earlier, but a
number of our staff are on
annual leave, resulting in a pres-
sure of work which has, delayed
attention to some matters.
I fully appreciate that you
would like to have your house
completed before the winter, but
we have only just received your
amended plans. The installation
of windows and wooden doors
now meets with our approval.
Our engineer advised, how-
ever, that he cannot approve of
your proposal to instal a moat
around your house, together with
a drawbridge. Until the Greater
Sydney water-scheme is com-
pleted, Fairyville is liable to
suffer recurrent with its
water-supply in the summer. The
maximum that would be per-
mitted would be a bird-bath,
not exceeding three - feet in
diameter.
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
March 30, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig,
Your plans and specifications,
as amended, are now satis-
factory. It is necessary, how-
ever, before final approval is
given, for you to forward to this
office a statutory declaration that
the house is intended for
dwelling-purposes only and that
there is no intention to instal any
factory or start any business in
contravention of the town-
planning provisions of the Fairy-
ville Building and Town Plan-
ning Regulations, which strictly
prohibit the operation of any
business in your area without
first obtaining the express per-
mission, in writing, of the Fairy-
ville Shire Council.
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
•
Fairyville Shire Council,
' N.S.W.,
April 17, 1956.
Dear Mr. Pig,
Your letter, enclosing your
statutory declaration, has been
received. You will be advised in .
the near future of the result of
your application to build.
I must object to the tone of
your letter. There has been no
delay in this office, which, you
must understand, has a legal
obligation to ensure that the pro-
visions of all relevant Acts and
regulations are met.
You have again referred to
Mr. Wolf. May 1 suggest that,
if you are reluctant to inform the
police, you obtain a court order
to ensure that he keeps the
peace?
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).
Fairyville Shire Council,
N.S.W.,
April 27, 1956.
Messrs. Snake, Snake, Snake ,
Sloth and Snake,
Barristers and Solicitors.
Sirs,
l have received your letter of
April 23 informing me of the
death of your client, Mr. Pig. I
had, of course, already seen the
account in the newspapers of his
death and of the arrest of Mr.
Wolf.
/ assume that, in the circum-
stances, your late client’s applica-
tion to build a house on his land
in Fairyville will be withdrawn.
Refund of the £5 deposit made
by your late client will be made
in due course.
Yours sincerely,
Elfin J. Tort
(Shire Clerk).


Circular Charts for all typa»
of Recording Instruments
»or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACKSDM lk
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
lusfralia’s most modem engineeiing
FORDSON MAJOR HAS MORE
FARM-RIGHT FEATURES
THAN ANY OTHER TRACTOR
Australia's lowest price
PER UNIT OF DRAWBAR OR BELT H.P.
FORDSON MAJOR IS THE LOWEST PRICED
DIESEL POWERED WHEELED
TRACTOR
f
r Q
S’/
'p
When you use Fordson Major, power-farming has
a wider scope and lower costs. Your Fordson Dealer
will arrange a work-test on your property.
HOT TOO BIG—NOT TOO SMALL.
Fordson Major is right for broadacre
or small farm alike. Its engineering is
absolutely practical, its power is
absolutely adequate and its versatility
is absolutely time and labour-saving.
Its price, low running costs and the
availability of service and genuine
parts combine to mean both lower
capital investment and lower upkeep.
That is the kind of power-farming
equipment you need for it means
profit to you.
HYDRAULICS-WITH NEW MEANING
Fordson Major’s “touch-control”
hydraulics and a range of
tillage implements and many-job
equipment matched to this completely
modern system of one-man operation
—mean power farming in its newest,
most labour-saving form. Available,
too, is Fordson’s NEW Remote
Control Kit which, in implements or
equipment where remote hydraulic
control can be used, applies it whether
the unit is mounted or trailing.
DIESEL
MODEL
EXDj
complete and including:
• 2 Speed Belt Pulley • Power Take
Off* Electric Lighting and Starting
Equipment • Tachourmeter
TYRES: Ik 28, 6 ply, rear 7,50
x 16, b ply, front.
Optional equipment extra:
Hydraulic Lift, 3-point Linkage £76
Hydraulic Remote Control Kit
(SaE/asae Standard/ £73, Raised
Power Take off Assembly £3O
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plants,
Uses all your existing equipment
With power aplenty at the drawbar,
Fordson Major handles everything
from big multiple discs to headers.
PTY. LTD.
Your Fordson Dealer
can supply a full
range of
implements and
farm equipment
for every usage.
FMI2O-40
Australia's greatest name in modern, iow-cost power-farming
Your Fordson Dealer will give you further details .
LISTEN TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY OF THE 65 STATIONS !N THE NATION-WIDE WEEKLY BROADCAST
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Parrots of Australia, by
Cayley Plant Microscope Technique y
bv Chamberlain; Plain statements and
practical hints respecting the dis-
covery, etc., of gold in Australia, by
W B Clarke; Toadstools and Mush-
rooms of South Australia (Vol. 1,
1934) by J. B. Cleland; borne Aus-
traliah Poets (Sydney, 1938), by A. J.
Coombes; and A Cultural Fable of
Orchidaceous Plants, by J. M. Cox.
6353.
To buy Edmund Shaftsbury’s Be
Your Own D0ct0r.— 6354.
To buy Hearts of Gold and Other
Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie—63ss.
American couple, both in early
thirties, both college graduates
(husband majored in political science,
wife in psychology), and interested
also in history, desire to make con-
tacts with Australians in order to
exchange views and opinions on the
aims, purposes and problems of
today’s world. (Write direct to Mr.
and Mrs. Louis A. Jambor, South
Raccoon Road, R.D.2, Box 110, Can-
field, Ohio, U.S.A.)
Information Sought
Some information on the life and
work of the composer Puccini?
Giacomo Puccini was born at
Lucca (Italy) in 1858. He was trained
by Ponchielli at the Milan Con-
servatory, and his first opera “Le
Villi,” was performed in 1884. From
then on he turned-out operas at well-
spaced but regular intervals—“ Edgar”
(composed in 1889); “Manon
Lescaut” (1893); “La Boheme”
(1896); “Tosca” (1900); “Madame
Butterfly” (1904); “The Girl of the
Golden West” (1910); “La Rondine”
and the “Trittico,” a collec-
tion of one-act operas, comprising
“II Tabarro,” “Suor Angelica” and
“Gianni Schicchi,” composed in 1918.
He also wrote most of another opera,
“Turandot,” which was finished after
his death by Alfano in 1926. Puccini’s
music is essentially Italian, having
easy-flowing melodies, good dramatic ,
effect and bright orchestration. 'He
died at Brussels in 1924,
* * * *
List of Colette’s writing?
Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (1873-
1954), probably the greatest of modern
French women novelists, wrote some
30 to 40 books, including her early
writings when she collaborated with
her first husband, whom she left in
1906. Her first six books, the
Claudine novels, were published
under his pseudonym, “Willy.” Her
other novels include L’lhgenue
libertine (1905), La Retraite senti-
mentale (1907), La Vagabonde (1911),
L'Envers du Music Hall , and
L’Ehtrave (1913), Cheri (1920), prob-
ably her most famous novel, La
Maison de Claudine (1923), La Fin
de Cheri (1926), a sequel to Cheri,
Sido (1929), La Chatte (1933), and
Le Fanal bleu (1949). “The deliber-
ately limited universe of Colette,” says
Geoffrey Brereton in A Short History
of French Literature, “is a universe
of the senses, whose perceptions she
expresses with astonishing skill
[hers is a] genuinely personal world,
simple but rendered with very great
art.” She has also written essays,
dramatic criticism, plays and the
libretto for Ravel’s opera “L’Enfant
et les Sortileges.”
• * * *
How many referendums have been
held in Australia since World War II ?
Three. The first, divided into three
parts, was held on Sept. 28, 1946.
The first part (Social Services), to
make laws for the provision of
maternity allowances, child-endow-
ment, hospital benefits, etc., secured
the necessary number of States and a
majority of the electors in favor, and
was carried; the other two parts,
Organised Marketing of Primary Pro-
ducts and Industrial Employment,
were both lost. The Constitution
Alteration (Rents and Prices) Bill,
held on May 29, 1948, to make laws
with respect to rents and prices, was
rejected, all States voting against and
only 40.6 per cent, of electors in favor.
The Constitution Alteration (Powers
to Deal with, Communists and Com-
munism) Bill, held on Sept. 22, 1951,
was also defeated, with three States
and 49.4 per cent, of electors voting
in favor.
* * * *
Information on the history of Trial
Bay jail, near Kempsey (N.S.W.) ? '
First suggested in 1874 by Harold
Maclean, N.S.W. Comptroller-General
of Prisons, the building of the prison
was begun in 1876, and was completed
10 years later at a cost of £60,000.
The outside walls of the jail, sup-
ported by buttresses, were 18ft. high
and 18in. thick, and four watchtowers
were erected. The enclosed area was
about two acres; the main wing
could hold 186 prisoners. It was pro-
claimed as a prison on March 4,
1886, and the first Superintendent was
William Small, who had previously
been in charge of Berrima jail. He
was succeeded in 1889 by C. G.
' Horne, and later J. N. Campbell was
in charge. The prisoners (usually
upwards of 100) were engaged on
building a granite breakwater near
the entrance to the Macleay and run-
ning northwards for 1-) mile from
Lugger Point, on the northern tip of
Smoky Cape. However, it was found
that building the breakwater by prison
labor was nqt satisfactory, and in
other respects the site was not suit-
able as a jail; it was therefore dis-
established on July 31, 1903. Fairly
substantial ruins remain as a sight-
seeing attraction.
* * * *
Who were some of. the early settlers
in Gilmore Valley? Were they
squatters or free-selectors ?
This information comes from
N.S.W. Lands Department, which
states that Gilmore Valley is not
marked on its maps and so assumes
that the environs of Gilmore Creek
are meant (parish of Gilmore, county
of Wynyard). In 1840 Robert Downie
took-up a station on Gilmore Creek,
to be followed by Thomas Boyd,
Robert Lynch, R. K. Broughton and
T. Mara. The land these squatters
held was Crown-land, occupied by
virtue of annual depasturing-licences
till 1848, when a new law gave them
possession under long-term leases.
(No land was held freehold in the
district at this time.) With the pass-
ing of Sir John Robertson’s Crown
Lands Acts in 1861, the “squatting”
districts were thrown open for sale,
but before that squatters were allowed
pre-emptive rights; in 1858 Boyd,
Mara and Downie bought their hold-
ings, and in 1860 Lynch did so. The
passing of the Crown Lands Acts did
not affect the Gilmore district until
the squatting leases lapsed in 1865.
Then selectors began to arrive, among
the earliest being Alexander Bolton,
Edward Boyd, Thomas Downing,
John Sullivan, George Woolbridge,
Michael Downing and Thomas
Purcell.
* * * *
What are the conditions or
qualifications governing playing in a
tennis tournament of American
country tennis-clubs ?
The secretary, N.S.W. Lawn Tennis
Association, states that American
tournaments are purely social fixtures
and are not included in the N.S.W.
L.'t'.A.’s list of open sanctioned
fixtures. This form of tournament can
be conducted for completion on the
one day and can be played in either
singles or doubles, the system being
that each player—or pair, as the case
may be—meets the others during the
day. There are various methods of
scoring results, and handicaps are
usually determined by the manage-
ment-committee. Length of a game
varies from eight games to either a
short set or a long set, and if entries
are numerous the tournament must be
played in sections, for seven entries in
a section means the playing of 21
matches. Consequently, much
depends on the number of courts
available to conduct the fixture. It
is a very complicated programme if
not played exactly to the correct key,
and it is possible for the tournament
to become hopelessly mixed-up late
in the afternoon.
Brief Answers
W.H.S.: Several books have been
written about the question you ask,
but, in short, gift-duty is payable on
gifts from parents to sons or
daughters under State law. The
amount of duty varies with the
amount of the gift. It will be
necessary to know what you have in
mind C.L.H.: It is not, strictly
speaking, necessary to retain the
papers any longer,, but it would be
prudent to do so. About five years
should be enough A.T.8.: Federal
electorates encompassing Brisbane and
its suburbs are Bowman, Brisbane,
Griffith, Lilley, Petrie and Ryan
F.R.: Jhe Cinque Ports were five
originally (cinque— five) - Dover,
Sandwich, Romney, Hastings and
Hythe—but later Winchelsea, Rye and
one or two other minor places were
added.... L.F.C.: (1) The Chifley
Government was defeated in the
Federal election of Dec. 10, 1949.
(2) The basic wage in Dec., 1949, was
£6 12s. in Sydney and £6 10s. in Mel-
bourne. The basic-wage average over
the six State capitals in Dec., 1949,
was £6 Bs. 4d Killara: (1) Write
Chief Botanist, Botanical Gardens,
Syuney. (2) The Forestry Commission
of N.S.W. can give no information.
.....H.F.M.: Poet Will H. Ogilvie,
on latest report, is still in good health,
but has not succeeded to any Scottish
title that we know 0f..^.J.D.: The
Story of Beads, by W. E. Burton, the
story of the tyre-bead and of the
National Standard Co. of America
(available from Angus and Robertson,
555., post. Is. 3d.), covers the subject
iff detail E.McC.: For a copy of
“Homeland in Picture and Story”
write Seppelts, Box 1429 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide (S.A.) L.M.: Yes, your
brother’s flat could be sold without
his knowledge. If it were he could
be evicted, but he-wouldn’t be in any
more danger of eviction than he was
before the flat was 501 d.... Disowned:
(1) Yes, your mother should have
shared equally. (2) No. The step-
brother and step-sister are not com-
pelled to disclose that they have a
step-sister. (3) A lapse of time of
14 years would certainly prevent such
a claim unless there was a very good
reason for it. (4) If she did it would
certainly defeat the claim... .H.M.:
The husband is entitled to the use of
the money until his death. Even if
he were convicted of bigamy the other
relation is not entitled to her share,
and it would be no use applying to the
court for it....A.G.: (1) Yes. Any
of the beneficiaries may be appointed
to administer the estate. (2) and (3)
No special conditions because the
administrator is a Queenslander. (4)
As the person who died was a resident
of N.S.W. there will be no duty pay-
able in Queensland if all the property
is in N.S.W. Queensland duty does
not become payable just because the
beneficiaries lived there... .R.H.H.:
If your neighbor’s dam overflows and
damages your property you have an
action against him for a private
nuisance in which you can, if you are
successful, recover from him what-the
flooding has cost you. Where the
flooding makes unusable a public
road which is your only outlet you
may sue him for publif nuisance....
M.W.: Procedure for obtaining copies
of wills and codicils is to go into the
office of the Registrar of Probates and
copy them out, or for someone to do
it for you. A charge of a few shill-
ings is made for the inspection of
each will, and the length of time since
the testator’s death has no effect on
the charge J.H.: (1) The old-age
pension for a single person is not
affected by an income up to £3 10s. a
week. Your income would include
rents from boarders, plus the insur-
ance-policy. (2) Write Deputy Com-
missioner of Taxation, 14 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney K.T.C.: (1)
In growing azaleas from slips or
cuttings, the cuttings used by nursery-
men are about 2in. to 4in. long. (2)
Cuttings are taken from the top or
sides of the bush about a month to
six weeks after it has finished flower-
ing. After the azaleas finish flowering,
where the flower? come from you will
notice young cuttings; these cuttings
are what the nurserymen use. The
best time to take the cuttings is some
time during November and December.
(3) A pamphlet on plant-propagation,
issued by the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, has been posted to you.


Si
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
flygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained sanitary system that automatically
transforms sewerage into a sterile solution. This passes automatically to
an underground sump and is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAU IT! The simple instruction card supplied makes it
possible for any handyman to instal a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydhey.
Established for 25 years.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SANTA GERTRUDIS IN AMERICA
SANTA GERTRUDIS cattle
are already fairly well-
known here, but a group of
Australian cattlemen who
saw them on their U.S. home-
pastures recently found much to
interest them.
For those Australians who are
justly critical of the land-tenure
system in some Australian States,
the King Ranch, Texas, is a
good example of the value of
security of tenure. Since 1853,
when Captain Richard King
bought 15,499 acres on Santa
Gertrudis Creek, long-term
experiments have been conducted
toward producing better cattle,
pastures and facilities. The
results of these experiments have
benefited not only the owners
but the U.S. cattle-industry.
The Klebergs came into the
King Ranch story in the 1880’s,
when an able young lawyer,
Robert Justus Kleberg 11,
defeated Captain King in a law-
suit. The astute King thereupon
hired Kleberg, and when the
Captain died in 1885, Mrs. King
asked him to manage the ranch
properties.
Kleberg married King’s
youngest daughter, Alice, in
1886, and today their second
son, Bob, is president of the King
Ranch corporation.
He was in Australia at the
time of our visit, so our host was
his nephew, Dick Kleberg:
“little Dick” to the staff of the
ranch, in deference to his father,
the late Richard M. Kleberg,
Snr.
Answering questions fired at
him by 20 Australians, 12 hours
a day for four days would have
wiped the smile off a lesser man,
but Dick was still smiling when
we left. The easy friendliness of
Dick and the members of the
ranch staff—and indeed everyone
we met in Texas —made us feel
that that State was more like
home than any other, with
Colorado running a close second.
One of our early questions
arose from the sight of acres of
prickly-pear. The pear is con-
sidered a lifesaver in time of
drought, when pear-burning
crews burn-off the thorns with
flame-throwers, and the cattle
crowd behind the men, eating the
newly-scorched leaves. Cotton-
seed-meal is given as a supple-
ment to the pear to provide a
maintenance-ration.
The first of the four divisions
of the ranch which we inspected
was Laurelas, the largest, and
lying east of Kingsville, bordered
on its eastern side by the Laguna
Madre, a saltwater lake separated
from the Gulf of Mexico by a
Whilst Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings were origi-
nally recommended
solely fpr marking
lambs their use for
tailing is now ap-
proved if yards are
dean and pastures are
free from infection.
The rings should be
fitted on tails as soon
as possible after birth
of lambs. If quick
completion of tailing
is desired, coupled
with advantage of
bloodless operation,
the tail may be
sheared off immedi-
ately with clean shears
just below the ring.
Disinfectants should,
of course, be applied
to the cut.
narrow spit of land. Carrying-
capacity ranged from 10 to 15
acres to the beast. These coastal
pastures are deficient in
phosphorus, and this is remedied
by the mechanical addition of
soluble phosphate to the
drinking - water. Incidentally,
concrete steps are provided inside
the circular troughs so that calves
can walk out if they fall in.
Apart from other indirect
benefits from the phosphate
supplement, it has increased the
calf-crop from 55 pel cent, to
75 per cent. Elsewhere on the
ranch, where the water-supply
cannot be so easily controlled,
bonemeal and disodium-
phosphate licks are provided in
shelters.
The big, genial foreman of
this division, Charlie Burwell,
ex-Texas Ranger, described how
the cattle are handled. The
breeding-herds are pastured on
the coast, and when the calves
reach the yearling stage they
begin the gradual western move-
ment which brings them at
marketing age to the shipping-
pens at the railhead. This is a
commercial herd, and many of
the steers are shipped clear across
the continent for finishing on the
King Ranch properties in
Pennsylvania. One pasture of
40,420 acres carries 2500 cows
having two and three top crosses
of Santa Gertrudis. Steer-calves
from this herd have averaged
6001 b. and better at 64 months
to 7 months.
Norias division, 50 miles south
of Kingsville, is, like Laurel as, a
breeding and steer - raising
property. Foreman is veteran
cattleman Ed Durham, whose
father also bossed a cow-outfit
on Norias. There was an affinity
between Ed and the veteran
cattleman of our group, Bruce
Hudson, manager of the Aus-
tralian Estates pioperty Mil-
lungera at Julia Creek (Q.).
Norias also runs through to the
coast, but here the cattle-
movement is from west to east.
On the western side of Norias
is the Encino division, under the
control of Jim Mcßride, who
brought the first major shipment
of Santa Gertrudis cattle to Aus-
tralia. I say the first “major
shipment” because it is not
generally known that King
Ranch sent a Santa Gertrudis
bull to Australia in the early
’thirties. Encino is a breeding-
operation, and the yearlings
move over to Norias for
finishing.
On all divisions of King
Ranch we saw further evidence
of the value of long-term land-
ownership—in this case to the
benefit of the employees in pro-
viding security. On each of the
divisions there are cowboys
whose families have been on the
payroll for up to three genera-
tions. The new generation is in
training, too—with jobs after
•School and on holidays. The
aptitudes of the youngsters are
studied, and by the time they are
ready for permanent employ-
ment they slip easily into the
jobs for which they are best
suited.
Completing the 940,000 acres
of the ranch- is the Santa
Gertrudis division, centre of the
purebr&Lcattle operation. The
foreman here is Lauro Cavazos,
fifth-generation Texan, whose
family were given a land-grant
by the Spanish Crown near the
present site of the city of Browns-
ville. From that time to the
present, the Cavazos family have
lived under the flags of Spain,
Mexico, the Republic of Texas,
the United States, the Con-
federacy, and finally the U.S.
again. Cavazos began working
for the King Ranch in 1912 and,
except for a period during the
First War, has been there ever
since.
The purebred Santa Gertrudis
herds on this division are the
direct descendants of the original
purebred Shorthorn foundation-
cows and their crosses with the
Brahma bulls. All are
descendants of Monkey (1920-
32), the foundation-sire of the
breed." There are .approximately
6000 cows and heifers in the
present breeding-herd, and they
are divided into 15 multi-sire and
11 single-sire herds. The former
vary in numbers from as few as
68 cows and three bulls to as
many as 1174 cows and 58 bulls.
The single-sire herds average 40
cows each.
All multi-sire herds are
"No, mate — ain't seen the eight-twenty-one to
Parramatta round ’ere."
divided on a quality and/or an
age basis, and are designated in
accordance with the name of
their “home” pasture. Calves
born in these herds are branded
on the left rump with the corres-
ponding letter-brand of the
pasture.
All single-sire, or pedigree,
herds are divided on a pedigree
and/or an age basis, and" must
be of superior type. These
herds likewise are designated in
accordance with the name of
their “home” pasture. Calves
born into these herds are scored,
tattooed, numbered and fire-
branded on the left rump with a
brand indicating their sire, and
on the right rump with the
brand of their dam.
The breeding - herds are
rounded-up twice a year for
branding, vaccinations, weaning
and culling. At weaning, all
bull-calves go to the pens for a
short feed-period. They are then
classified: some retained for
replacements on the ranch, many
sold and others castrated.
At weaning all heifer-calves
likewise go to the pens for a
short feeding-period or until
weaned. They are then turned
out to pasture for a year. At
18-24 months they are mustered
and classified. The extreme tops
in type and quality will go to
make-up new single-sire herds.
The second-tops will make-up
a new, small, multi-sire herd, and
the majority will make-up a new
large multi-sire herd. All the
others that do not meet the
minimum strict requirements set
for the purebred herds will go to
one of the other divisions of the
ranch.
When we were there, Texas
was experiencing a drought—in
fact, had had six bad years. The
value of the Santa Gertrudis was
evident throughout Texas in the
numbers pastured, and their
superior foraging-ability was
enabling them to show good
condition despite the state of the
pastures. They have shown Well
against other breeds in feeding-
trials, but their greatest asset .is
their ability to gain on grass
alone. One example—a group
of calves at five months averaged
4761 b. Off-pasture, without hay
or grain, they weighed 8031 b. at
12 to 13 months.
North of the Norias division
of King Ranch we saw the Santa
•Gertrudis herd- belonging to
Tobin Armstrong and his uncle,
Major Tom Armstrong. This
was an excellent example of how
£ herd could be up-graded in
minimum time with efficient
planning. The Armstrongs now
have over 2600 classified Santa
Gertrudis, next in number to the
King Ranch.
The Armstrong system is to
use the scales to be sure that only
the fastest-gaining animals are
kept for the breeding-herd, breed
artificially to reduce the number
of bulls needed, and to make it
easier to test young bulls. More-
over, they test for pregnancy to
check shy-breeders s quickly and
get them out of the herd. Re-
placements are required to make
the grade under rugged range-
conditions and measure-up to
high standards of fertility,
weight-for-age, beef-conforma-
tion, hardiness, mothering-
ability in heifers, and, in all cases.
—a good disposition.
Armstrong cattle have been
exported to many parts of the
world, including Australia —
Raoul Joyce, one of our party,
has Armstrong heifers on his
Queensland property. We also
met John Ajmstrong, who has
a Santa Gertrudis herd at Selma,
Alabama—he moved there from
Texas in 1950 to escape the
drought which even then was
making the going tough for
ranchers and their cattle.
The change in climatic
environment didn’t hurt his cattle
—one of his bulls recently out-
pointed all other breeds in an
Alabama feed-trial, and went on
to bring top-price at the sub-
sequent sale. We saw another of
his bulls on the way home from
America; a good specimen of
the breed, he was running with
Hereford-Shorthom-cross cows
on the volcanic hills of the Island
of Hawaii. Twelve of John
Armstrong’s heifers will find
good pasture next year in
Western Australia, where they
will join Bill Stephens’s nucleus-
herd at Walebing.
Tom Shelton, of Tilden,
Texas, began his apprenticeship
as a cowboy on the King Ranch
—the Sheltons were among the
first to buy Santas when the
breed was released to outsiders
by the King Ranch in the early
’thirties. From the Shelton
Ranch and Winrock Farms,
owned by Winthrop Rockefeller,
two brothers in our party, Jim
and Harry Walker, of Longreach
and Tambo (Q.), bought 17
heifers and three bulls.
No Santa Gertrudis had previ-
ously been sold from Winrock
Farms except to members of the
Rockefeller family, but Mr.
Rockefeller released this group
as a gesture to the Walkers, the
Australian Santa Gertrudis
breeders, and to Australia. v
“Let’s not build a showplace,
but only do what any enterpris-
ing farmer can do on his own
land.” This practical statement
of the goal was made some years
ago by the late Dr. S. J. Francis,
chairman of the original board
of trustees of the Luling Founda-
tion, a unique organisation
located just east of San Antonio.
The Foundation farm was estab-
lished by a one-million-dollar
endowment from the latfe
Edgar B. Davis, Texas oil-man.
A demonstration-farm, rather
than an experiment-farm, in the
27 years of its existence it has
shown farmers of small means
how to make a success of farming
by using their limited equipment
and facilities to the best
advantage. The farm is now self-
supporting and showing a profit.
Its present head, Walter
Cardwell, Snr., has the manner
of the well-loved schoolmaster
of fiction. One of the important
departments of the farm is the
purebred Santa Gertrudis herd.
The foundation females came
from Richard King’s Agua Dulce
Ranch, these being descended
from his share (as a grandson of
Captain King) of the original
King Ranch purebreds.
Bulls for the Foundation came
from both the Agua Dulce and
King Ranches, and this com-
bination has enabled the farm
to offer both males and females
for sale —the latter being in par-
ticular demand because the King


The "FARMERS' BOY
a
SERIES II” (1! h.p.)
“MAJOR” (3 h.p.) -
Both rotary scythe, mow, cultivate, hoe, etc.
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum and
DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut grass as short
as you wish.
Write or telephone your, nearest State distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations.
N.S.W.: HUBERT STOKES & 00. PTY. LTD-, 32 Whiting St., Artarmon.
JF 4396. GRAZCOS CO-OP. LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP. LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. MeLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., 115 Yo*k St., Launceston.
Laun. 2645. 173 Murray St.,‘ Hobart. B 2264. „. 0 . 0 .
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Amt. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD., 32 Whiting
St., Artarmon. JF 4396.
TVeflt
• IMPORTANT EXTRAS ARE INCLUDED IN PRICE
• PROVEN RELIABILITY & MONEY-SAVING OPERATION
mmam
SI
't ■».
NT.50.38
milaHMli]
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
POWERED BY KEROSENE OR DIESEL B.M.C. ENGINES
With every Nuffield Universal tractor there is an outstanding range of
standard equipment—equipment you don’t have to buy later. And
because the Nuffield tractor operates efficiently under even the most
extreme conditions, giving the maximum power output
with minimum fuel consumption, you save more money
and valuable time on every job. For every type of
specialised work there is a wide range of “approved-
after-test” matched implements expertly designed to
work with the tractor. Prove the Nuffield Universal
on your own land—arrange with your nearest Nuffield
dealer for a fact-proving demonstration, or mail the
coupon now. You’ll soon see why your first cost is
your last cost!
Kerosene models from £879 . Diesel from £1,090
IMPORTANT EXTRAS
INCLUDED IN PRICE
Head, tail and side lights,
agricultural light, electric
starter, electric horn, belt
pulley unit, drawbar and
extension, heat gauge, hour
meter, foot plates, seat
cushion, canvas cover, tacho-
meter (extra on kerosene
models), spark arrester, fire
extinguisher.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty Ud Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, GjP.O.. »y Nuffield Tractor
IS ■SS after - Test" Matched
Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS.
Place X in this square If for school project.
BMC
Sold and Serviced by Authorised
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
t
nnnDnDATinN (AUSTRALIA) PTV. LTD.
Ranch has never sold any
females.
At the Foundation we saw the
40,000-dollar bull, El Torazo,
which was bought from the
Ring Ranch by a syndicate
including the Ruling Foundation
and Mr. Cardwell. Near San
Antonio we inspected the ranch
of another member of the
syndicate, R. W. Briggs, of the
Broken X Ranch, who recently
shipped two purebred heifers to
Lyle Kirkby, of Moree (N.S.W.).
On the return-leg of our
journey through the United
States, as we travelled from
Coloradb Springs to Denver, we
were handed a copy of the
“Record Stockman” weekly by
Jim Browitt, livestock field-
editor. Our attention was
directed to an advertisement on
page-two which read like this:
“WE’RE GAMBLERS! ARE
YOU? To any Responsible
breeder of Hereford cattle in the
Rocky Mountain area we make
this offer —we will sell you a
purebred Santa Gertrudis bull
with payment under the follow-
ing terms: 1. The Santa
Gertrudis-Hereford cross calves
MUST BRING MORE MONEY
PER HEAD or we will take the
bull back at NO PURCHASE
COST TO THE BUYER.”
Article No. 4 of this offer
stated that payment for the bull
would be made when the off-
spring were sold, which would
give the buyer free use of the
bull for two seasons.
The advertiser was Mrs. T. K
Ruddock, whose 4000-acre ranch
we visited that day: a charming
hostess who impressed us with
her knowledge of cattle, her
efficiency, and —not least —her
courage. For not only has she
had to contend with a drought
ever since she bought the ranch
but she raises and sells the big
red cattle in a traditionally white-
face State. The altitude of the
Ruddock pastures is around
6000 ft., and the rough and stony
ridges are sparsely grassed. But
the cattle looked in remarkably
good condition.
The Santa Gertrudis have
spread to many States of
America, but at present Mrs.
Ruddock is the pioneer-breeder
in Colorado. Our group of
pioneer-breeders from Australia
invited her to be present at the
judging of the Santa Gertrudis
at next year’s Sydney Royal.
Barry Kafer.
Winter Rations
“Cressy”: Where oats grow
well for winter-feed, allow an
acre for every 20 to 25 breeding-
ewes, and lcwt. of hay a ewe for
the three worst winter months.
From 31b. to 41b. of silage con-
tains about as much feed as lib.
of hay. Let oats develop plenty
.of body before grazing them.
Where paddock-feed is short,
give ewes at least lib. of grain
a day. Weaners should get 12oz.
each. Be careful to bring sheep
on to grain gradually. Too much
grain, too soon, kills sheep..
When grain is broken-dowh in
the stomach by digestive juices
and bacteria it produces lactic-
acid and other substances which
cause trouble, including severe
irritation and burning* of the
♦membranes ; which often cause
bloodstained droppings.
Other symptoms of trouble are
founder,* standing still, or a stiff
gait. Never allow sheep
unlimited access to grain, and
do not feed-out more than a few
ounces a head until the woollies
are used to it. After a few weeks,
as much as Blb. a head can be
fed out at once, as a daily ration
of 21b. for four days. Feeding
twice a week instead of daily
saves a lot of labor without
undue harm so long as the sheep
are used to the grain.
"Clean Honey"
“B-herd”: Desist, “Drone
B.” (B. 27/6/’56), with your
smoker. I can’t follow the argu-
ment for the smoke. When you
were- a young fellow you may
have seen all those things in a
jar of honey on the storekeepers’
shelves, but not today. The
game’s too competitive.
It’s bad business, this talk of
macadam and muck and bees’
legs in honey, for he who would
make his living at the game.
Most bee-herds and packers
know it. They know, too, about
containers that have lost the tin-
ning inside. I’d hazdrd that even
the five-colony man knows
honey won’t stand being stored
in an iron-container.
I agree when you call these
samples “museum-pieces.” But
I don’t hold with you that the
backyarder doesn’t sell his
honey. You can read by the.
light in the backyarder’s eyes, the
day he sells his first dollar’s
worth. Where else do the 500-
colony men come from?
About setting the lid on the
honey-tank —sure, man. Put it
on by all means.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/7/’56)
I Further heavy rains are likely in N.S.W. and southern
Queensland this mlonth, and the position will require close
attention, as severe and widespread flooding may occur in
N.S.W., and this could extend into the northern half of
Victoria. Heaviest falls may occur between July 18 and
July 23. , i j
Moderate follow-on rain should occur m Queensland
during August, although the Peninsula and the north-west
area may be mainly dry. .
General ruins, above normal, are likely m a large part
of N.S.W. during August, although the coast may get only
light to moderate rains. , .
Victoria should receive heavy rains during
August, with the likelihood of flooding, particularly in the
northern half of the State. . ,
General rains should continue in both Tasmania and
South Australia. .
In Western Australia, general rains; may t occur in the
south-west, with particularly heavy falls between Perth and
Albany, and varying from light to moderate in the Gascoyne
and goldfields areas.
LENNOX WALKER.
Citrus Gall-wasp
“D.C.H.”: Spread northwards
of the citrus gall-wasp is worry-
ing Queensland citrus-cockies.
Until two years ago, the pest had
never been found north of
Gympie, but it was found in
backyard trees, in Maryborough,
the season before last, only a
few miles from the Burrum
orchards and with the extensive
orchards of the Gayndah district
less than 100 miles to the west.
The citrus gall-wasp lays its
eggs in the twigs, causing swell-
ings ranging in size up to three-
quarters of an inch in diameter.
These cut off the supply of sap,
eventually reducing the cropping-
capacity to nil.
All varieties of citrus-trees are
attacked, but lemons and grape-
fruit are most susceptible.
Chemical sprays have proved
ineffective, and the only control-
measure is the removal and
burning of all affected parts
Despite a check of about 4000
backyard trees in Maryborough
in the past two years, the wasp
has shown that it is still active in
the district.
Cabbage-moth
“Agricola”: The white
cabbage-moth could be very
troublesome in July and August.
The grubs are found on the
leaves of turnips, cauliflowers
and kohlrabis as well as on
cabbages.
The moth is greyish brown,
about half-an-inch in length ; the
grubs are bright green. If dis-
turbed, they fall to the ground
on a thin thread. When every-
thing is quiet again the grubs
climb up the thread on to the
leaves and resume feeding. In
the pupal-stage the pupa can be
seen through the lacy silklike
cocoons.
Control-measures should be
commenced as soon as the young
plants have become established
in the permanent beds. Keep
the ground free from old stalks
and leaves. This reduces the
moth’s chances of breeding.
Previously, treatment con-
sisted of a weekly spraying with
E 605 or D.D.T. 0.5 per cent,
spray or dust. The grubs seem
to have got used to these pre-
parations, and the latest recom-
mendation is endrin as a 20 per
cent, miscible-oil, diluted to 1-in-
-400. Dieldrin as a 25 per cent,
miscible-oil diluted to 1-in-500
will also control the pests. These
preparations are much more
effective than either E 605 or
D.D.T.
Herd-recording Fees
“J ”: Queensland herd-record-
ing fees have gone up by a bob.
They are now Bs. 6d. per cow
per lactation, from July 1. Ris-
ing costs is the explanation
offered by the Queensland
Department of Agriculture and
Stock.
A. F. Bell, the under-
secretary, makes the point that
the scheme is the cheapest in
Australia. When it was intro-
duced, in 1948, costs were shared
equally by cocky, State and
Commonwealth Governments.
A few years back the
Commonwealth cut its contribu-
tion from one-third to one-
quarter, so State and farmer
between them pay 75 per cent.
In England and Wales the
farmer pays a little more than
80 per cent, of the cost —18s. a
cow.
About 50,000 cows are now
under test in Queensland.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Weekend Penalty-rates
If the N. S. Wales Government were
released from the obligation to pay
penalty-rates to transport employees for
Saturday-afternoon and Sunday work
(where it forms part of a five-day 40-hour
week) it would save more money than it
can ever hope to do by introducing the
larger one-man buses. It should, there-
fore, apply to the Arbitration Court for
such a release.
The move would antagonise a section
of employees by cutting off an additional
source of income, but the department is
doing that already by running the one-
man buses and is getting sections of the
public up against it, too —it is no fun to
have to stand in a queue in wind and rain
while a bus-driver laboriously collects
money, pulls tickets and hands out
change. The department has never said
how much money it will save by running
one-man buses, but it can’t be a great
deal. On the other hand, savings by
cutting out penalty-rates would be
considerable.
There is no justification for the pay-
ment of penalty-rates for Saturday-
afternoon and Sunday work where such
work is included in a regular five-day 40-
hour week. There has always been pro-
vision for payment of overtime where
ordinary hours of duty are exceeded, and
it is proper that such provision should
stand ; ljut it is sheer nonsense to
employees extra for Saturday-afternoon
work on the grounds that they are being
deprived of their sport.
■ It has also been said that employees
who are compelled to work on Sunday
are denied the right to attend Divine
worship. It would be interesting to know
exactly how many are directly affected—
as a rule, people who have genuine
conscientious objections to working on
Sundays have no difficulty in securing
exemption from such duty. With others
the “conscientious” objections soon dis-
appear when higher pay is promised.—
M.F. D. (N.S.W.).
Election Comment
It is surprising that a non-Labor
Federal Government has not repealed the
iniquitous law —passed by a Labor
Administration a good many years ago—
that obliges anyone who comments on
election-matters after the writs are out to
sign his name and address.
Many a person with a useful contribu-
tion to political argument is unable to
express his or her view because, for
various reasons, it might be inexpedient
to do so except under a pen-name. A
case in point would be a trade-union
official who disagreed strongly with some
important point of Labor policy, but to
whom criticism might bring victimisation.
The only party that gains by this
restriction is the A.L.P. Abolition would
be an act of justice and to the advantage,
politically, of the Liberal and Country
parties.— Lyle (N.S.W.).
New Northern State
Clem Lack (B. 6/6/’56) goes to some
length to prove that a new State for North
Queensland would be an economic
failure, by quoting a public debt of
£58,627,749. You can set against that the
£80,000,000 which represents the total
amount of North Queensland production
as stated in the last issue of “Economic
News” (Vol. 24, No. 8) published by the
Bureau of Industry. This means that,
on a per capita basis, Clem Lack’s debt-
load of £249 4s. 3d. per head would be
offset by a production-amount of £3Ol
for every man, woman' and child, leav-
ing a balance on the credit-side of £5l
15s. 9d. And it would probably be found,
when a division of assets and liabilities
was made, that the mother-State would
owe the offspring just as much as it owed
her. That could mean that the public
debt would not, in fact, exist.
Consider also that if North Queensland
becomes a separate and sovereign State it
would become entitled to its own share
of Federal tax-reimbursements, plus a
share of Federal-aid road-grants and any
other grants which might be made from
time to time. It would also be entitled
to a seat on the Loan Council.
All this revenue would be spent entirely
within the new State by an on-the-spot
Government. No longer would the Bris-
bane Government be able to channel the
just dues of the people of the North to
projects and areas which have nothing
to do with the North.
Remember, too, that when Queensland
was separated from N.S.W. it had
practically no public utilities, a popula-
tion of only 25,000 and only 7£d. in the
Treasury. Yet it has become possibly
the greatest State of the Commonwealth
Would anyone say that it would be better
off now if it were still part of N. S. Wales,
and governed from Sydney?— Peter A.
Wright (N.S.W.).
A Chair for Henry
Having finished correcting the final
proofs of the current issue of the “Astral
Bulletin,” Archibald rang for the printer's
devil and was leaning back in his chair
feeling for his pipe when his eye fell on
Professor Milgate’s article on the Red
Page (B. 20/6/’56), which an astral
courier had deposited on his table.
“Good gracious!” he murmured.
“Good gracious! ”
“What’s the matter, sir?” said the copy-
boy, who had just entered.
“I must really let Henry know about
this. Get me long-distance, boy, will
you? Ask for Mr. Lawson. Goodness
gracious! ”
“Hello, Henry,” he was shouting a few
minutes later. “Have you heard of the
great honor that has been paid you?”
“What’s that, what’s that?” a voice
answered • faintly.
“Shake your infernal phone! They’re
giving you a Chair.”
“A mare?”
“No —a Chair. C for Clarice, H for
Henry, A for Annette, I for Irene, R for
Ruby." A C-h-a-i-r.”
“Who are?”
“The —er —the Australian people.”
“What on earth for? I always like to
stand when I’m thinking.”
“You idiot, it’s not to sit on! Much
too expensive for that —it’s to cost
£80,000.”
“Cripes! But what am I to do with it
ujv here?”
“It won’t be up here —it’ll be at the
University of Sydney. . And it’s to be a
Chair of Australian Literature, with a
real dinkum professor in it.”
“Oh, I see. Does a barrel go with it?”
“I don’t know —the article doesn’t say
so, but it’s to be for the systematic,
objective and critical study of Australian
literature and, as you know, Australian
literature is you, Henry.”
“And you, old chap. Don’t forget you
were the first editor to see anything in my
stories—the others didn’t like my
. spelling.”
“That was your trouble, Henry. Your
spelling was bloody awful, but no worse
“ He's always been a bit backward."
than your grammar. You should have
gone to a. university before you started
writing, instead of knocking around
shearing-sheds and pubs and common
boarding-houses with drovers and jack-
eroos and down-^nd-outers.”
“I was too damn’ hard-up. I didn’t
have the price of a drink until I met you.
btill, that’s where I found the subject-
matter that I liked.” '
You were marvellous, Henry, mar-
vellous! You could identify yourself with
a lonely drover’s wife, a snotty-nosed
outback kid, a drunken rouseabout or,
lor that matter, a battered old felt-hat.
You learnt the hard way. But that’s all
over now they’ve got a Chair. And they’ll
have a course, of course.”
“What’s that? What’s that about a
racecourse?”
“Not a racecourse, you blockhead! A
three-year course. A th?ee-year course in
the encouragement and assessment, within
the context of academic studies, of
scholarly, interpretive and critical
writing on Australian literature as a
qualification for a university degree.
Professor Milgate says so. But first
you’ve got to write a thesis.”
“Cripes! What’s a thesis?”
“How badly you were educated,
Henry. When you write a thesis you get
out of your head by painless extraction
a lot of facts and opinions which have
been put into it by the Chair. Your own
observations, if any, must be rigorously
excluded; if you put any of them in you
will probably frighten the Chair and you
won’t get your Ph.D. or M.A. or Honors
B.A. or Honors M.A. If, like Shelley,
you shove in opinions which run counter
to those of the Chair you will probably
be kicked out, as he was out of Oxford.”
“Then it’s nothing like a story?”
“Nothing like your stories, Henry.
Millions of theses have been written,
millions upon millions, and not one of
them is remembered, not one. But
your stories are still remembered.”
“It’s nice of you to say that.”
“Well, it’s so, isn’t it? All the same,
a Chair’s a great thing—every country’s
got one, even poor old England. You
can’t get along without a Chair. Look
at Shakspeare. How much better
written his plays would have been if
they’d had a Chair in his time. Those
dreadful double-superlatives — they
wouldn’t’ve been permitted.”
“I suppose you’re right. Well, thanks
for telling me about the Chair, old
fellow. Who’s going to sit in it —their
best writer, I suppose?”
“Don’t be silly. Writers never sit in
literary Chairs, any more than painters
sit in art Chairs.”
“And there isn’t even a barrel with it?”
“No barrel, Henry.”
MERVYN SKIPPER (Vic.).
It is unlikely that a Chair of Australian
Literature at. Sydney University will
have a repressive effect on those students
who have “innate literary ability” (B.
20/6/’56). The few who might be
affected adversely are those whose talents
would, in any case, be repressed to the
same degree by the “university of life.”
As an argument against confining
genius in an academic straitjacket it is
fruitful to mention the freshness of the
work of Furphy and Lawson. For the
other side one can instance, just as
effectively, Brennan and FitzGbrald, on
whose work learning has left a beneficial
mark.
To the potential authbr-graduate the
Chair of Australian Literature offers
several advantages. Not least among
these is that it should create a greater
interest in Australian books and authors
and thus lead to an increase in book-
sales.
More important, however, is the fact
that the professor should be able to
encourage the author and put him in
touch with the Australian tradition more
quickly than if he had to search for it
himself. That is not to say that the
author must follow the tradition, but
that without an attitude towards it he
has no hope of writing work ranking
as literature.-
PEEKAY (N.S.W.).
A Chair of Australian Literature will
hearten all who have for years been stres-
sing the fact that a national literature has
existed practically since Australia was an
infant in culture. Literary bodies in Mel-
bourne, notably the 57-years-old Aus-
tralian Literature Society and the 18-
years-old Bread and Cheese Club, have
stressed the need for such a Chair and
have kept the plan alive by press-publicity
and discussions in public meetings and
committee conferences of both units.
The Moomba Book Fair in March,
1955, and the Australian Book Fair
Council’s display last March were very
successful in further awakening the read-
ing public to the hundreds of worth-
while books on view, The thousands of
interested people and the surprising sales
prompted the formation of the
literary council, which is seeking to sup-
port another display for the benefit of
Olympic visitors in November.
The University of Melbourne has
recognised this nation’s literature
by including it in this year’s curriculum,
and there are several staff enthusiasts
who are keen in furthering the cause.
One of the speakers at the March
book display (in the Melbourne
Town Hall) announced that. seekers
of degrees on the Continent had
taken for their theses prominent Aus-
tralian writers of the old school like
Lawson, Paterson and others.
When the La Trobe Library is estab-
lished in Melbourne the enthusiasts and
the cynics will be side-by-side viewing
the fine collection of rare volumes of Aus-
tralian literature and Australiana
generally, through the generosity of John
Moir, “chief” of the Bread and Cheese
Club. Further, news that the “cultural
cerftre” (on Wirth’s site over Prince’s
Bridge, Melbourne) will soon take shape
has heartened everybody. Here, in the
near future, the National Gallery and
literary organisations will at last have
found a much-needed home for the
treasures they undoubtedly possess.
ANDREW MILLETT (Vic.).


man and his dog? Wombats? This is
the opening page of “The Tree of
Life,” and it is instantly apparent that
Mr. White’s picture of Australia is to
be only half-convincing.
Mr. White, who is essentially any-
thing but namby-pamby, would
possibly defend his style on the grounds
that it has rhythm. It has. And on
the grounds that, in its obscurity, it
helps to create that atmosphere of
human bewilderment which his novel
tries chiefly to depict. Once again, it
does. And there is still nothing in the
book which could not better be said
plainly. Dealing with simple people,
he has not the plot of dark intrigue in
convict Tasmania and the darkest
recesses of human psychology which
to some extent justifies the eccentri-
cities of William Gosse Hay: and even
Hay would have done better to have
written English.
Mr. White’s characters, again—
except for the O’Dowds; a most
delightful pair of wild Irish whom he
runs into farce when the drunken
husband chases his wife, and the fowls
and the pigs, with the cleaver—are
nowhere memorable; iStan and Amy
Parker might as well be named A and
B for all the individuality they have.
And, finally, his biographical
method of construction, following the
Parkers step by step from birth, to
death, of necessity makes the final
statement of the novel, rich and varied
though it is in its course, not so much
a profundity as an enormous common-
place: that men grow old and die. All
novels, carried to this length of years,
would be the same novel. It is in the
isolating of a significant fragment of
experience, comic or tragic that the
novelist can best find both dramatic
form and something fresh to say.
But Mr. White writes his bad prose
so painstakingly, and with such hints
of possible excellence, that one has no
doubt that he could write well if he
chose. His knowledge of human
nature in general, though the indi-
vidual characters are not striking, is
everywhere manifest. And, for a novel
on so broad a theme as a man’s whole
life, and the growth of a settlement,
“The Tree of Life,” for all its length,
is remarkably tight, compact and to
the point. If he has not written the
Great Australian Novel this time, Mr.
White may very well write one of our
great novels as soon as he stops trying
to.
D.S.
The Australian Sonnet
Louis Lavater’s The Sonnet in Aus-
tralia was first published in 1926. He
added 43 to the original 225 for a new
edition he had ready in 1945, when
he was 78, but he died at 86 with the
new edition' still unpublished, says
Frederick T. Macartney in his fore-
word to Angus and Robertson’s revised
and enlarged edition, which he has
edited, and for which he has put
together a 57-page preface made up
from Lavater’s several writings, most
of which makes an exhaustive discus-
sion of varying sonnet-forms.
Lavater was a shrewd judge; his
putting of “The Swimmer” at the head
of Gordon’s accomplishments must
warm any critic or poet towards him;
and in his old age he did not carp at
newness: there was a “remarkable spate
of sonnets in the magazines during the
first quarter of this century.” he says,
but at the end of this period people
were saying that poetry would soon be
“practically extinct.” Lavater didn’t
believe it, and he felt that his view
was
being confirmed by current develop-
ments in poetry—the invention of
new stanzaic designs; substitution
of assonance or dissonance for
rhyme ; scansion by stress (“speech-
rhythm”) rather than by syllabic
metre ; preponderance of intellectual
over emotional content; and a more
involved mode of expression. These
circumstances nevertheless made the
search for present-day sonnets more
difficult . . .
Everybody has written a sonnet; one
suspects that Mr. Menzies has one
hidden away, and that Dr. Evatt is
reserving a 14-line Miltonic diatribe,
like a hydrogen-bomb, for an explo-
sion of the last resort upon the head of
Mr. Santamaria. Every poet should
be able to write one, or a ballade, or a
rondeau, a sestina or (says Ezra
Pound) a strict Italian canzon; they
are the poet’s discipline; his studies;
his five-finger exercises.
The sonnet, because so many prac-
tised it, has been also the language of
polite poetic conversation; it had the
vagueness and generality of strangers
meeting at some formal reception and
making to each other the same guarded
comments and replies as at any other
formal reception, on the weather, the
flowers, the plays, the people . , . and
if there is not still one “language of
diplomacy,” there is even today a
language of sonnets, formed mostly by
Shakspeare and partly by Milton, and
controlled by the pentameter-rhythm
and the unchanging proposal-and-
reply of the form which forces a beauty
on all proper sonnets and at the same
time renders them indistinguishable;
The Australian exceptions are few.
At their head one would put a sonnet
not printed in this book and one that
is. It can never be sufficiently lamented
that Leon Gellert is known only as a
war-poet, and mostly today as a charm-
ing essayist on the home-life. He
should also be known for the superb
sonnet:—
When I have known you thoroughly
through the years
And found each secret atom and
piece of you
And all your laughter has grown
stale, and tears
Too regular, and there is nothing
new,
What new surprise will wait behind
the bars ...
For this same mandarin, before 1920,
was the first Australian poet to break
the glass that held poetic beauty and
goodness together and show the poet as
the somewhat doubtful character that
everyone knows himself to be. The
other great sonnet, printed in this book,
is Slessor’s “Thief of the Moon”; in
spite of its effort to gain novelty by
fluttering the line, it shows how easily
the conventional imagery of poetry may
be developed into a masterpiece. You
begin, it seems, with little more meta-
phoric originality than a Tinpan Alley
song: —
Thief of the moon, thou robber of
old delight,
Thy charms have stolen the star-gold,
quenched the moon —
and then you just throw in two lines
of musical genius:—
Cold, cold are the birds that,
bubbling out of night,
Cried once ' to my ears their
unremembered tune . . .
It is all so easy.
The war-sonnet, “A Night Attack,”
which is one of Gellert’s two pieces in
this book, is probably the most
“modern” sonnet here, with its suspense
and fine use of disjunct lines; but a
book which prints so much should
surely have included the great sonnet
beforementioned, and also one of the
two domestic sonnets; that, for
instance, beginning: —
Because his soup was cold, he needs
must sulk . . .
Then, even if one felt that Slessor’s
“Mangroves” sonnet was too like in
style to his “Thief of the Moon” sonnet
for inclusion, there should have been
space for one or all of his little “crown”
of three sonnets, “Out of Time”; a very
new development:—
Leaning against the golden under-
tow,
Backward, I saw the birds begin to
climb
With bodies hailstone-clear, and
shadows flow,
Fixed in a sweet meniscus, out of
Time,
Out of the torrent, like the fainter
land
Lensed in a bubble’s ghostly camera,
The lighted beach, the sharp and
china sand,
Glitters and waters and peninsula . . .
At least three of the other sonnets
in this book have achieved inter-
national fame; though one never quite
felt that Bernard O’Dowd’s “Bulletin”-
prize sonnet, “Australia,” quite lived
up to its first magnificent line:—
Last sea-thing dredged by sailor
Time from Space . . .
and would rather give the palm, for
perfection, to his little comic sonnet: —
THE COW
This is a rune I ravelled in the still
Arrogant stare of an Australian
cow—
“ These prankt intruders of the
hornless brow,
Puffed up with strange illusions of
their skill
To fence, to milk, to fatten and to
kill,
Once worshipped me with temple,
rite and vow,
Crowned me with stars and made the
millions bow
Before what abject guess they called
my will!
Today this flunkey of my midden,
Man,
Throws child - oblations in my
milking-byre,
Stifles in slums to spare me lordly
fields,
Flatters with spotless consorts my
desire,
And for a pail of cream his birthright
yields,
As once in Egypt, Hellas, Ind,
Iran! ”
The second famous sonnet is Bayle-
don’s “Marlowe,” which marches with
all the splendor both of the sonnet and
of Marlowe to his inglorious death: —
A harlot weeping o’er a corpse
scarce cold,
A scullion fleeing with a bloody
knife.
We gain fame by curious routes:
Leslie Hotson, who discovered once
and for all that Marlowe died in a
tavern brawl, killed by a companion
probably in an argument over who
should pay the bill, included the fleeting
scullion of Bayledon in his list of the
incorrect theories his world-surprising
discovery had destroyed.
The third famous sonnet is Bartlett
Adamson’s “Adventure,” with its often-
quoted opening:—
The world is charted out from pole
to pole,
Measured and docketed and filed
away . . .
It was praised in terms one forgets by
the American Vincent Starrett, well
known as a detective-story writer, and
of sufficient standing as a critic to make
Bartlett’s name in that one sonnet; and
rightly so, though perhaps the sestet
labors a little the thought that death is
the last adventure —a matter on which
ole Bart, is now a better authority than
the present reviewer. He died after
complaining of faintness on the plat-
form of a Leftist meeting at Sydney
Domain: that was his “Panorama from
the peaks of Death.”
And for those who knew that ancient
and mordant wit, that undismayed and
unquenchable old journalist, Adam
McCay, how enchanting to come upon
a sonnet of his youth, and to consider
how it must have shocked the readers
of those earlier days:—
Your sweet girl’s body is a bowl of
wine,
Brimming with all delight; it is,
moreover,
Scented as is the blossom of cool
clover;
It is as dazzling as a star divine,
Not hung in heaven for ever to shine
But trembling earthward to a happy
lover . . .
For the rest, one is unwilling to
differentiate. There are celebrations of
months and seasons, women, music,
night, day, cemeteries, stars, wattle,
cats, driftwood, ships, shores, ice, heat
(Chris. Brennan), the soul imprisoned
in the vile body (Edgar Holt), poppies
—by Everyone: Barrc i -d, • ;
Henry Parkes, Hugh M
H. Adams, Zora Cross, I
S. Elliott Napier, Williai b •
James Devaney, David I
Macartney and Lavater tnemselves,
Marie E. J. Pitt, Fumley Maurice,
Charles Harpur, Archibald T. Strong,
Vance Palmer, Dora Wilcox, Dowell
O’Reilly, Mary Gilmore, Victor Daley,
Will Ogilvie . . .
It’s quite a roll-call; but there must
be many left out: Kenneth Mackenzie,
for one; Robert D. Fitz Gerald for
another: both of whom have worked
with outstanding freshness in this
ancient field.
Ronald McCuaig.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 391
Across
I—Not1 —Not home to produce an egg
expenditure. (6)
4—Who likes everything to be per-
fect in a catalogue of notions?
(8)
10— Far from active when batting
against royalty before tea. (5)
11 — Modern newspapermen pay much
attention to this arrangement of
1-across. (3-3)
12— Swear the source of caviare is an
Arab philosopher and medical
authority. (8)
14— X’s? (5) '
15— Every section of it is an oval
Spanish article and a place to
kiss with love before I would
finish. (9)
16— A very long time to make one.
(3)
17— Figure this is happening in a
steam-yacht. (7)
20—Drastically censure a parent’s
headgear. (7)
22—Modification of the fat behind
„ (3)
24 The French sea cleric to treat
with quicksilver. (9)
25 Subject to the French one against
the German. (5)
26 Australian State to peg back the
ear worker on salary. (4-4)
29—A disreputable woman in a
steamer begins the holy faculty.
(6)
30 — Eastlake is weird. (5)
31 — Don’t perform the Wagnerian
tetralogy for a while, according
to a racqueteer’s order. (8)
32 — A heavy scoring bat is a provoker
of Venus. (6)
Down
1 — Lone rook’s modified spectators.
(9)
2 Attempt to bite when meeting a
sweetheart. (8)
3 An astringent daylight upset the
student or old-boy of a college.
(7)
4 Girl like Beethoven’s 7th
symphony. (3)
5 13 seasons and broils an
anaesthetist. (6, 6)
6 Before a palindrome. (3)
7 An award for succeeding
emaciation. (7)
8 — Yours Truly does 50 on the object
of pagan worship. (6)
9 Teased preposition with a sedan
unloading its article. (5)
13 —Some tennis act at the Tivoli is
meeting the immediate purpose.
(7, 1,4)
18— Gives an ironic interpretation of
rested flowers. (9)
19— Study about a tree playwright of
Spain. (8)
20 — Fruit by the fatter fattener. (7)
21 —Short did spectacular show-off
acts. (7)
23 — G. and S. craft is first a great
English bowler. (6)
24 — To be indebted heart of Mr.
Cutter. (5)
27 — Hawaiian garland. (3)
28 — The Governor-General surrounds
one conveyance. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 390


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY ”
BATTERIES
m
m
35
5».
>2.
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
IS6 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
. South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
