

SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
The Bulletin
Beginning: “BRIGALOW” —Fine New Serial
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3984
Wednesday, June 20, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
BY HEREFORD’S PREACHING
CROSS THE FLOWER OF
ORATORY BLOOMED
'T'HE ancient city of Hereford, on the
**- bank of the River Wye, was in
Saxon times the capital of the western
Kingdom of Mercia. It is now the capital
of a country famed for its cattle, its cider
and its rich pastoral scenery. In addi-
tion to its 11th-century cathedral, scene
of the Three Choirs Festival every third
year and its many splendid half-timbered
houses, Hereford possesses one of the
two surviving Preaching Crosses in
Britain.
The Cross, seen in the accompanying
illustration, is buttressed on four steps,
with an open balustrade and a vaulted
roof surmounted by the central pillar and
cross. It was erected in 1350, restored
later by Sir Gilbert Scott, and it stands
near the ruins of the Black Friars’
Monastery, founded in 1276. From the
Preaching Crosses which were erected in
various parts of the country in the 13th
and 14th centuries, open-air sermons were
given by visiting Friars. The sermons
were not mild fifteen-minute homilies but
were, in most cases, lengthy orations with
fearsome descriptions of the dreadful fate
which awaited the wrongdoer. The
preaching friars were extremely eloquent,
their audiences were often ignorant and
penances were severe.
One of the famous crosses was St.
Paul’s Cross, erected near the wall of the
old St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, in
1240. It was demolished in 1641, but
during its 400 years’ existence it wit-
nessed many historic and stirring events.
Mayors were elected alongside the cross,
heretics and evildoers were made to do
penance there, and it was from St. Paul’s
Cross that the first news of the defeat of
the Spanish Armada was announced to
the citizens of London.
Other crosses to be seen in various
parts of Britain were erected as memorials
to the famous; others served as land-
marks for travellers in the lonely
countryside; and still others, dating
from Norman times, were erected to
define the boundaries of a place of
sanctuary. They are all symbols of the
remote past, and as such they have their
special place in Britain’s long and
chequered history.
No. 303: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


WRITE STORIES
. . . and EARN
in Your SPARE TIME!
If you have the urge to write, you can
iearn to write successful Short Stories,
Articles, Written Sketches, Radio Talks
Paragraphs, Verse, etc. There is a large
demand for well-written work. Read these
extracts from STOTT Students’ letters-
“My broadcast ‘Peppercorn Rents’ is set
for 13th Dec. on 3L0.”
“My Article on Rehabilitation was accepted
by ‘Woman.’ ”
“Mv Literary Course has paid for itself in
hard cash.”
‘Sunil’ 6 had sevoral stories in the Sydney
‘“Woman - took two more Articles at
£4/4/- each.”
“1 have had over 60 contributions in ‘The
Bulletin’ in a year.”
“These are the verses which were published
ij? the A.B.C. Weekly’ and broadcast over
the National Stations.”
ii
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
•—'-—OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ———
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1256) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671. G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for vcu — fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue-
The Red Page
WHY A CHAIR OF
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE?
One of the results that can be safely
expected to follow from the establish-
ment of a chair of Australian literature
at Sydney University is that the work of
our writers will become more widely
known and its value more justly appre-
ciated. Another result will be that the
means to knowledge and appreciation
will be improved: by the keeping in
print, for the use of students and other
readers, of work that is worthy of
preservation, and by critical discussion,
historical and bibliographical studies,
and anthologies, based on the continu-
ous scholarly survey of Australian
writing that the establishment of a chair
will ensure.
1 his is not to say that valuable work
has not already been done in all these*
fields. But a person of professorial
status in an English - department
populous with students (at the moment
about 1200) is obviously in a strong
position to give stimulus and guidance
in the carrying-on, and where neces-
sary in the improvement, of these kinds
of study.
The fact that by the senate’s decision
the chair will be within the department
of English is, however, what gives
reality to all the benefits to our cultural
and national life which it is possible tp
claim for the existence of a chair at all.
The resolution carried so enthusiasti-
cally at the public opening of the fund
by the Governor on May 28 speaks of
“the systematic, objective and critical
study of Australian writing in its rela-
tion to and as part of the general body
of literature in English.”
It thus asserts that by proper
academic standards of scholarship and
criticism there is judged to be a body
of knowledge, and of literature of good
quality, to warrant recognition in
university studies, in proper proportion
and perspective; and that there will be
no neglect of the tradition of English
literature, or of good writing in English
outside Australia, in favor of that part
of literature in English which Aus-
tralian writers produce.
The opinion that the establishment
of a chair is necessary and desirable
at this stage has not been lightly
reached at the university. It is based on
30 years’ more-or-less extensive experi-
ence in the department of English of
the study of Australian literature in
accordance with the principles just
outlined. According to their opportuni-
ties members of staff, and students,
have engaged in criticism of Australian
writing, in scholarly research into
sources, authors’ drafts, influences,
biography and any other material that
throws light on the development and
meaning of a writer’s work; in lectures
and examinations from time to time
on Australian authors; and in thesis
work for Honors B.A. and for Pass or
Honors M.A. degrees.
It has been proved by these means
that the study of Australian literature
can proceed at a proper standard, with-
out yielding to either form of pro-
vincialism—that sentimental parochial-
ism which exalts writing of whatever
literary quality because it is Australian,
or that more distasteful snobbery which
condemns out-of-hand anything written
in Australia as, reason, of no
value or importance.
The continued existence of both
these attitudes is a strong argument in
favor of the study of Australian writing
supervised by a well-qualified literary
scholar of professorial standing. Two
examples of theses already accepted
for degrees will show the kind of work
possible: a study of Henry Handel
Richardson’s work in relation to her
literary models in German, French,
Russian and Scandinavian literature;
and a study of Brennan’s poetic theory
and practice in the light of his creative
dependence on such writers as Novalis.
Mallarme, Baudelaire and De Regnier.
There is nothing “provincial” about
this; and the fact that the work of the
Australians is not shamed by compari-
son with the European works from a
study of which they profited is a
conclusion of some importance.
There is, in short, an amount of
academic wPrk the development of
which could keep one member of a uni-
versity staff fully occupied. It may
seem to some people that perhaps a
lectureship might be sufficient at this
stage to provide such a member. There
is some absurdity, however, in the
notion that we might give Australian
literature a lectureship in 1956, promote
it to a senior lectureship in 1976, to a
readership in 1996 and eventually
reward it with a professorship. It
seems to me that much more will be
achieved by beginning at once with a
chair which will attract successive
occupants of the highest possible
calibre, and will carry with it from the
first the prestige and influence that are
associated with the position.
This is even more desirable because
of two recent developments: the
increasing number of scholars from
abroad, many themselves professors,
who are coming to Australia to study
our literature; and the establishment
last year of the degree of Ph.D. in the
Faculty of Arts. Responsibilities such
as these are best discharged by a pro-
fessor of the subject. Indeed, if for
their doctorate students submit work
in Australian literature (as some of
them, will) the safeguarding of
standards is best placed in the care
of a scholar of the greatest possible
distinction on whose word, in the
community of universities, the value of
such a degree will largely depend.
The chair will be a centre for
the co-ordination of research, a
vantage-point for the survey of
scholarly and critical writing on our
literature as well as of the literature
itself. To what has already been
achieved the professor will add his own
contribution, and that of his students,
to both criticism and scholarship: and
also what only a university can provide
—-the encouragement and assessment
within the context of academic studies,
of scholarly, interpretative and critical
writing on Australian literature as a
qualification for university degrees.
The fact that the professor will not
be burdened with the administration of
a separate department will mean, 1
hope, that he has opportunity, largely
denied to his colleagues in an over-
crowded university department, of
renewing that fruitful intimacy between
academic teachers of literature and
creative writers that flourished in the
days of Brennan and Brereton. He will
know what is being written and what
contemporary writers are hoping to
achieve, and may be able to assist
them to realise their aims and to win
recognition.
The maturity which Australian writ-
ing has reached makes it appropriate
that at this point the university, with
public support, should show its faith
in our literature and make the best
effort it can (to quote again from the
public resolution) “to foster its growth
and enrich its quality.”
W. Milgate.
[Professor Milgate is Challis Professor of
English at Sydney University and chair-
man of the executive committee of the
Chair of Australian Literature Fund.]
The Story of Cricket
They Made Cricket, by G. D.
Martineau (Museum Press), relates the
story of cricket from its known
beginnings.
The first match for which a date can
be given is a game in 1719 between
Kent and London played at Islington,
on fields which were “possibly the
scene of Boadicea’s final defeat.” In
those days most matches were between
a team organised from his estate by
a big landowner and one raised by a
neighboring squire.
One of the most enthusiastic patrons
of the time was Frederick Prince of
Wales, who in 1737 began to captain
“Surrey and London.” Big crowds
came to see him play, and the Prince
once gave ten-guineas to a poor woman
whose leg was broken in the crush.
Brought up in Hanover, Frederick
acquired a passion for cricket after
coming to England; he didn’t attain
any great skill, but practised diligently.
At practice one day in 1751 he received
a knock from a ball and died. Thus
“a cricket-ball changed the English
succession, and possibly the course of
history.”
On the matter of history, one didn’t
before realise that it was as far back
as 1787, the year when the financier
Calonne pronounced the French
monarchy bankrupt, that Thomas Lord
opened his first ground (not the site of
present-day Lord’s, which dates from
1814); nor that in the next year, 1788
—before the Revolution across the
Channel the Marylebone Cricket
Club, equally momentously, some may
think, issued its first revised laws.
Apropos, Martineau quotes historian
Trevelyan’s “If the French noblesse'had
been capable of playing cricket with
their peasants their chateaux would
never have been burnt!”
All the significant changes in styles
of play and techniques, and the men
mainly responsible for them, are dealt
with. For instance, it was the round-
arm fast-bowling of the giant Alfred
Mynn, “the Lion of Kent” (1807-61),
which forced batsmen to use pads and
gloves. Likewise, in later times, it was
to counter the batting mastery of Brad-
man that “bodyline” bowling was
devised.
An unexpected number of clergymen
have been associated in different v/ays
with cricket. Today there is David
Sheppard, who captained England in
1954 before taking the cloth; he had
several precursors handy with bat or
ball. One was the Rev. Lord Frederick
Beauclerk, one of the first slow-bowlers
—though as Vicar of Redbourne he was
not always greatly in evidence, and
once gave it out that there would be
no service the following Sunday as he
could not get back in time from a meet
of hounds. Two 19th-century clerics,
John Mitford and James Pycroft, wrote
prolifically on the game, and the first
broadcaster of cricket, of a match in
1927 between New Zealand and Essex,
was the Rev. Frank Gillingham.
Discussing the range and quantity
of literature cricket has inspired,
Martineau picks an XI of poets (tact-
fully in alphabetical order) who have
sung of cricket. The first reports of
cricket-matches were written in verse,
and one William Goldwin (1682-1747),
a headmaster and clergyman—another
one!—has the honor of being first to
describe a match, in Latin verse. As
a cricket-report, however, it fails to
pass muster —it doesn’t tell where the
match was played nor what were the
sides and scores.
Australians mentioned include Brad-
man, the “Demon” Spofforth, Trumper
as the “beau ideal” of Australian
cricket, Blackham for his work in the
development of wicketkeeping. And
there are the Englishmen like William
Caftyn who came here and coached.
In the development of the art of
batting, Martineau does not overlook
the skilled preparation of pitches.
“Fiddler” Walker, who prepared Trent
Bridge 70 or 80 years ago, used to
identify himself with his pitches—“l’m
better this match than ever I was;
they’ll never be able to wear me out.”
And some batsman “never gets any runs
except when he bats on me.”
And, of course, there’s Dr. Grace.
Also his two brothers, both Test-
players, too, and their remarkable
mother, who coached them in their
younger days, the only woman whose
name is in “Wisden.” Not less remark-
able, though, is their dog, who, trained
to field for them, was a cricket purist
and was wont to bark angrily if a ball
bowled on the off was pulled to leg.
K. R.
Reviewed Briefly
A Horseman Through Six Reigns:
Horace Smith (Odhams). Reminis-
cences of a Royal riding-master, the
man who taught the Queen to ride.
There is Epsom, there are the great days
of horsemanship in Hyde Park, there
are horse-shows and there is hunting:
in a word, horses.
* * * *
Victorian Eton and Cambridge:
H. E. Worthan (Barker). A life of
Oscar Browning, who, ill-treated as a
boy at Eton, went back to fight his
battles over again as a master; and
then, dismissed somewhat under a
cloud, moved-on to Cambridge. It is
a picture of bitter, backstage feuding
amongst the masters at Eton, with high
principles inextricably entangled with
the most petty personal animosities—
not pleasant reading, 'but alive; and
presented with admirable restraint.
* * * *
ft Don’t Cost You a Penny: Eddie
Harward, illustrated by Sillince (Max
Parrish). Adventures of a comic bat-
man in World War II; who, if not a
good - soldier - Schweik, is amusing
enough in his English music-hall way:
an “old sweat” always in trouble.
* * * *
Hornets’ Nest: Christopher Landon
(Heinemann). A fairly-thrilling thriller
about an absconding bank-teller who
gets caught-up in the mesh of inter-
national espionage. All the sinister
elements of mystery and adventure are
present but the pace is slow. The most
exciting ingredient of the story is its
setting, the frozen North Cape of
Norway.
* * x= *
England and France in North
America: Francis Parkman, edited by
Samuel Eliot Morison (Faber). This,
in ample selections of complete
episodes, makes available to the
modern reader a classic of American
history, first published in seven volumes
in 1865. Parkman’s prose is a delight
in itself, sumptuous and sonorous, with
a hint of Gibbon about it; his material,
as much concerned with the Red
Indians as with the French and British
explorers and colonists until Wolfe’s
victory in 1759, is extraordinarily rich
in wild adventure. It is a book which
will appeal to anyone who cares for
Prescott.
* * * *
Blood Royal: lain Moncreiffe and
Don Pottinger (Nelson). A gaily-
illustrated book (in color) designed to
inform the reader about the history,
powers and privileges of the Royal
family. Suitable for older children.
* * * *
Bouverie Ballads: Percy Cudlipp.
illustrated by Gerard Hoffnung (Eyre
and Spottiswood). Entertaining and
ingenious comic-verses from “Punch”
and the “News-Chronicle.” Some, on
British Parliamentary topicalities, are
a bit remote from these Australian
shores; others, such as the one about
Christmas beginning early in the big
stores —
Good King Wenceslas looked out
Halfway through October-
cross the oceans with point as well as
polish.
* * * *
Papa Married a Mormon: John D.
Fitzgerald (W. H. Allen). A light-
hearted story of the romance and
marriage of the author’s parents, a
Mormon girl and a Catholic man, in
Utah (U.S.A.) during the 1880’s. Tied-
up with this is a vivid account of a
little Mormon settlement and of the
silver-mining boom-town which lies
adjacent to it. The author, himself a
Catholic, speaks with affectionate
sympathy and admiration of the
Mormons and scarcely mentions
polygamy. Though over-sentimental in
parts and incredibly dramatic in others,
the story is rich in character and
incident and is told with sincerity and
humor.


ill.
■■■ll
' i ' i .'. .VS.'':'' "' VVV.V $ :
111
IllliSliililliili
. ...
■-tf:’:*:: VvVxvvv ■_ lW yaw>pr s , UL
I
SMMa awww
& i
3 \ i
I
i£;3B<
*
* - „
pspig
- W
illlll
m - ■
md
M
Hi
’ , iv r '•n-
H
.sM
m
lilßi
.': ■ ' ■
m
&r.
n
lg|g
iH
3
was
,g
MM
1 »
ygsm
pi#g> NMiP 111
. ■■, "v
i
:' S' '.. S',
IF
ii
i :".
MM
■:■■■■<■>■■■.
tSt***
mil
m* *
fj&:mbs 1 *•
iMBIMiM
V '
IV
■
.
l;'i;
m
v- ':'•'
111
i,
■
ssl'l V
.
Ifggll
. ■
HflflHHi
VsVs
!
Sr*:'-
: \g
' ...s •*!
1
.
ISB
. -r :
Special purchase
200 Dinner Suits
£l6/16/-
Here’s the best dinner suit offer in Sydney .. a smartly tailored
dinner suit for just 16 gns! They’re made from good quality
barathea with silk facings, and we’ve sizes 4 to 8, and b\ to
Men’s Centre, Ground Floor, George Street.
Cashmeres liy a* Hie World’s best
The quality of cashmere has never been surpassed —
where ever you wear it you can be confident it
will be the best. When it’s cashmere fashioned by
Braemar you know you have the ultimate in
knitwear luxury and style. Sportsmen the world over
wear cashmere —they know it’s the very warmest
and lightest; will keep its shape and softness for
years. Anthony Horderns’ have new Braemar
cashmeres in the latest shades and styles to make
this winter your most successful yet.
Box 2712, G. P. 0., Sydney.
K
;
*
!*!
\
■
: -:v.
■
\
Illustrated above
Far left. Cashmere slip-on, in colours of grey, lemon,
blue, kasha, lovett. Sizes 38-42, £7/19/6; 44, £B/19/6
Centre. Long sleeve pullovers with comfortable V necks.
Kasha, grey, lovett. Sizes 36-42, £l3/10/0; 44, £l4/10/0
Above. Cashmere cardigan in colours of grey, dark fawn,
and blue grey. Sizes 38-42, £l6/5/0; 44, £l7/5/0 each.
TRUTH; IN ' ADVL-RTiSINq
inthony Hordern’
UUkrUh.
llJlßinll£ruiuruj
c?/
Doivn Quilts Remade
Anthony Horderns’ will re-
make your old down quilt to
look like new\ We are quilt
specialists and all quilts are
remade by quilt experts in
our own factory. Only the
best quality materials are
used for the coverings.
Please write for a quotation
now before the cold weather
arrives.
Be Sketched by
Lyn Lavelle
for only 12/6
Artist Lyn Lavelle is still at
Anthony Horderns’ Picture
Frame Department every
day to sketch you or your
children without appoint-
ment.
Having a Party, going
to a Ball?
Anthony Horderns’ Liquor
Department can supply all
your requirements.


The Bulletin
VoL 77—No. 3984
Wednesday, June 20, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE "LABOR" ISSUE
AS seemed inevitable after the issue of the challeng-
ing report of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive last
week, the clash between the Rights and the Lefts
of Labor” came to a culmination in Melbourne.
The Federal Executive, given moral courage by
the presence of a special Federal conference—
whose existence seems to be about as legal as most
of the actions of the supreme presidium of the
party—rather nervously decided to dismiss the
N.S.W. Executive save for its enigmatic secre-
tary, Mr. Colbourne, and its president, Mr. F.
Campbell, of the Leftist Electrical Trades Union,
who has been the only straight-out supporter of
the Evatt party on the N.S.W. body.
The method by which the debacle was
brought about had been typically Communistic:,
and the architects of it are largely recent arrivals
in the party with Communist associations, or those
who always become imbued with a lust for the four
freedoms when Communist policy and interests are
involved.
The campaign against the N.S.W. Groupers
began when Dr. Evatt needed a red-herring to
get him out of his difficulties arising from his close
and public collaboration with the Communists in
pursuing a mare’s-nest conspiracy before the
Petrov commission. The start which he gave to
the hunt was used by him and his followers to
draw-in the Left elements and to establish a United
‘Front, especially on foreign policy, in which the
leaders of Australian Labor and Moscow and the
local Communists speak with similar voices.
The physical condition of the party was that
it had been cut in two as if with an axe. The
condemned of Sydney Trades Hall were sitting
on the assets of the N.S.W. branch, estimated
to be worth £200,000 and including radio-station
2KY, awaiting the invasion from Melbourne.
Mr. Cahill and various political guerrillas of
the same quality and political morals were out in
the scrub peeping through the bushes and trying
to determine which side it would be best for a
careerist to join. In States other than N.S.W. there is
considerable perturbation behind the scenes while
bullying juntas of the A.W.U. and Q.C.E. type
attempt to keep within bounds the feelings of
those sections of the party who believe in
constitutional methods and State party-rights.
In N.S.W. it was difficult to see how a big legal
fight, leading to the disruption of “Labor,” could be
avoided after the forthrightness of the attack on the
Federal juntas in the pamphlet issued by the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive. But that body
appears to contain enough acrobats to stock Wirth’s
Circus. What happens now depends on how far
the Federal Executive is out for Grouper blood.
The sensitivity of “Labor” to the word “Com-
munist” has been demonstrated loudly in Canberra
during the week in the debates on the coastal
shipping and stevedoring bills, M.P.s on the
Opposition side who have always claimed the right
to shout “Fascist” across the Chamber at wounded
returned-soldiers virtuously demanding withdrawal
of charges of Communist association whenever
made.
Some, of course, are not sensitive, whatever
their pretence. In fact, the most important feature
of the shindy in Melbourne has been crystallised
in the statement of Dr. Evatt following the Federal
Executive’s decision to dismiss the N.S.W. Branch
Executive.
He fully approves the unconstitutional action
of Federal Executive. There are no shouts for
British justice for the victims as there were for the
convicted Communists Ratliff and Thomas in 1941,
or for the Communist party, threatened with the
Dissolution Act, in 1951, or for the “victims” of
“conspiracy” before the Petrov commission in
1954-55. He didn’t even have to consult Comrade
Molotov before making up his mind.
He declares that the decision of the Federal
Executive is binding on all members of the A.L P
including Federal caucus, and takes it for granted
that any uprising by the rank-and-file and any
decisions by any State conference which may take
place in N.S.W. must be put down with Stalinist
ruthlessness.
He says that “in the Australian field the Labor
party will now be able to concentrate on the positive
aspects of our policy as well as pursuing its duty
of revealing the bankruptcy of the Menzies-Fadden
Government.”
It is oddly significant that the first facet of
government which comes to his mind is foreign
policy, which implies admission that foreign policy,
Russian v. British Commonwealth, is the great issue
involved in “Labor’s” internal strife. The Federal
Government—-in common, of course, with all other
English-speaking Governments —it appears,
“has no positive aims,” and is “out of touch
with the undoubted movement of opinion through-
out the world towards ending of the cold war,
whereas Labor’s foreign policy determined upon
at the Hobart Conference 16 months ago antici-
pated most of the developments in the world affairs
that have happened since.” His debating of foreign
policy at this stage amounts ,to a tacit admission
that his raising of the sectarian issue which
triggered-off the fight was merely a blind to hide the
real bone of contention.
What the Hobart Conference did anticipate
was the Kremlin’s line of world policy within
the period since the conference. It was able in
advance to lay down lines which would enable
the party to pick up its cues from Moscow with
unfailing accuracy, always just a little ahead of the
Kremlin.
The inferences which could be drawn from
the position and developments are not pleasant.
Labor has a leader whose sense of “justice” only
seems to burn really brightly when the Communists
are attacked. He had admitted last year before
the election -that he had been in communication
with Moscow and that he was so naive that he was
prepared to accept the assurances of Molotov that
his Embassy had not been involved in spying
operations against Australia, a country which
Molotov’s own Government referred to in Embassy
communications as “the enemy.” He was prepared
to accept the flimsy, unsupported, tongue-in-cheek
assurances of Communist functionaries and the
Embassy itself that the Soviet Union and its Com-
munist-party allies here were the victims of a base,
criminal conspiracy by the Menzies Government
and others—a conspiracy based on perjury and
falsification—for political purposes.
Now he is so naive as to further embarrass
his following by taking pride in the foresight which
enabled his party to adopt, 16 months ago, a line
which would be in tune with Kremlin world policy
at the present time.
While it is deplorable that the policy of
Federal “Labor” should be committed to implicit
trust of the Moscow line on all occasions, it can
be counted as an asset that the country now knows
where Federal “Labor” stands.
The report of the N.S.W. State Executive just
issued makes it clear that the fight with the Federal
authorities is not merely a sectarian squabble or
an internal struggle for power. The N.S.W. body
has issued a squarely-worded challenge to Dr. Evatt
and the would-be executioners of the Left on their
associations. It also confirms Dr. Evatt’s own
expressed view of what the main issue is.
Can the Railways Pay?
AS Mr. Cahill has appealed for realism in regard
to his railways and has asked that they be regarded
as a business, any criticism of them must approach
the subject from that viewpoint. It is no longer
permissible to justify the burdensome cost of the
railways by pointing out that they provide pay-
envelopes for 60,000 persons who, by and large,
are so well satisfied with the arrangement that
admission to some sections of the service is
becoming hereditary.
The satisfaction derived by Ministers, M.L.A.s,
M.L.C.s, railway- and tramway-employees and
others who enjoy free or part-free travel on the
railways is no doubt very real, but it isn’t business.
And although the average M.P. probably has a
strong sentimental regard for his gold-pass, it’s an
accepted maxim that there’s no room for sentiment
in business, so that can’t be credited against the
railway losses. Nor can the entertainment that the
general public derives from the periodical squabbles
between Mr. Cahill’s various Transport Ministers
and his railways commissioner; nor the undiluted
pleasure of radio-audiences at the commissioner’s
frequently-broadcast monologue assuring them,
despite nightly press-reports of breakdowns and
hold-ups, that the railway is the safe way!
Before his conversion to the strictly-business
creed, Mr. Cahill used to complain—as all members
of his party do from time to time—of the iniquity
of the interest-bill borne by the railways. His
Transport Minister Enticknap has not forgotten it,
however. Last week he announced that the N.S.W.
railways would never pay until they were relieved
of part of their crippling burden of debt. He spoke
of approaching the Federal Government to see if
it would take some of the load.
This plea has been raised so often that it needs
some examination. As the railways were built with
borrowed money, it is natural that there should be
an annual interest-bill. And as the capital-cost of
the railways is a very considerable sum it is natural
that the interest is considerable, too. But that is no
new phenomenon. There has always been an
interest-charge, but there hasn’t always been a
railway-deficit.
Fifty years ago the railways were meeting
running-expenses, paying their interest-bill and still
showing a profit. According to the “Official Year-
Book of N.S.W.” for 1906, “while the avowed
object of State railway-construction has been to
promote settlement, apart from consideration of the
profitable working of the lines, the principle has
nevertheless been kept in view that in the main
railways should be self-supporting.”
And self-supporting they were! The year-book
listed 31 non-paying lines that year, but commented
that the results on these were improving. It ascribed
this to “careful and economical management.”
Have the administrators of 1956 assured themselves
that the same adjectives can be applied to present-
day management?
World War 11, unlike the Kaiser’s war, saw the
N.S.W. railways make a substantial profit, but the
first three years of peace-time operations swallowed-
up all the war-time profits, and since then the
position has become steadily worse, despite the fact
that the actual interest-rates paid on loan-money
has been substantially lower than in pre-war years.
The Auditor-General has commented on the
lessened importance of interest as a factor in
railway-costs; in relation to total expenditure the
current interest-burden is less than a third of that
carried by the railways in the 1930’5.
The net deficiency in railway accounts from
the end of the war until last June was £18,223,900.
This is not the whole picture, because railway
earnings each year are credited with a large sum
towards meeting losses on developmental lines. This
contribution from Consolidated Revenue stood at
£BOO,OOO for many years, but it was increased to £1
million two years ago. The Treasury also con-
tributes a considerable sum to cover concession-
rates on various types of goods and £BOO,OOO a year
to the Railways Superannuation Fund.
These are “earnings” which most of the present
Administration’s predecessors did not receive.
Finally the earnings benefit from road-transport tax
paid by road-hauliers. Since 1950 this has never
been less than £1 million, and is now about £2
million.
In contrast to the declining importance of
interest as a factor in railway-deficits, attention
should be directed to the growth of working-
expenses. In 1906 these amounted to 54.5 per cent,
of earnings. In 1926 they were 73.9 per cent., which
was reduced to 69.9 per cent, by 1936. Last year
the figure was 92.4 per cent. That seems to leave
plenty of scope for Mr. Cahill’s business-proposition
approach on the expenditure front.
One of Mr. Enticknap’s colleagues, a sincere
young new member, making his maiden speech in
the N.S.W. Assembly, revealed the naive simplicity
of many “Labor” men on the subject of interest
and finance generally. Deploring the “crippling
burden of interest,” he said; “It is indeed strange
that, with our silos full of wheat, and with our
inability to sell our surplus eggs, butter and beef,
we cannot pay our interest-bill to Great Britain
in kind. It is a mystery to me why it must be paid
in cash which payments impoverish the
country.”
The picture of the N.S.W. Agent-General
driving around England delivering butter and eggs
to bondholders is an alluring one, but no doubt
Mr. Cahill has by now convinced his new recruit
that some other scheme than that will have to be
found before the railways can be made to pay. It
seems just barely possible that Commissioner
Winsor, working quietly along novel lines of his
own, has found the answer.
There’s a railway-construction job in progress
at Mt. Victoria, in the Blue Mountains. The bricks
for the job are made at the State Brickworks at
Homebush, Sydney. And are the bricks railed to
Mt. Victoria? No, they are sent the 80-mile journey
by road.
At first sight this seems incredible, but obvi-
ously there must be a reason for it. This may
possibly be found in a reading of American rail-
road history. Towards the end of last century two
American railroad tycoons were in cutthroat
competition for the transcontinental goods-traffic.
One, by slashing his rates to under-cost, found he
was getting the lion’s share of the traffic and was
very happy. It wasn’t until he was well-nigh broke
that he discovered that a big proportion of the
goods he was carrying so cheaply was being shipped
by his competitor, who had accepted it from the
consignors at his own higher rates and was pocketing
the difference.
Could it be that Mr. Winsor is trying out a
similar scheme and intends to extend it until all
railway-traffic is carried by road? That way the
railways would be bound to show a profit—and
they’d get the benefit of huge road-transport tax-
receipts as well. An objection to the plan might be
that there’d be no work for the locomotives and
rolling-stock, but this could be solved by giving
them to the bondholders instead of butter and eggs.


THE HOPES OF THEIR SIDE


PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Neutrality
The present Russian programme of “con-
ciliation” is aimed not at close and normal
relationships with friendly countries, but
obviously at the disarmament of all
Powers inclined to oppose Russia’s
ambition for world conquest. It is aimed
particularly to ensnare or stampede the
soft underbelly of United States opinion
which has always inclined to isolationism;
the section of British opinion which has
a natural antipathy to United States
schoolboy idealism and brashness in
external relations ; and particularly the
masochistic Asians and Africans of
“underprivileged” nationalities whom it
is all too ready to aid towards “freedom
from imperialistic domination and
exploitation on behalf of Wall-street.”
At a moment when the U.S.S.R. had
staged some of the largest nuclear explo-
sions on record, when its satellite agents
of the neutral inspection-committee had
been turned-out of Korea for espionage
and sabotage, Bulganin the other day
announced that the reduction of Russian
permanent military forces (more than
compensated in other spheres in which
there was growth) had been made because
“there is nowhere a possibility of war
breaking out”:
In Europe, Britain will not start a war,
the French do not want it, the Germans
cannot make it. We hope that the Western
Powers will follow our example and do
likewise. If clear indications of understand-
ing are given and there is goodwill, the
results will be positive.
The impudence of this statement, in the
face of the fact that the rest of the world
began to disarm after the end of World
War II and that they were forced to
rearm by the building-up of Russian
forces, is almost breathtaking. Every step
toward real disarmament is spragged by
Moscow, whose submarine-fleets continue
to be built-up and whose country remains
a prison in which only conducted tours
are allowed. In the week of Bulganin’s
statement permission was refused to two
British goodwill missions, one of them
attempting to establish regular airline
communications with the U.S.S.R., to fly
to Moscow in their own British machines.
The reasons were not obvious.
The complacent reactions to the Bul-
ganin-Khrushchev propaganda is disturb-
ing and will be little affected by the know-
ledge that parts of Khrushchev’s speech
attacking Stalin hold assurances that
Russia must continue to propagate Com-
munism in capitalist countries.
In Europe the new bounties in the way
of industrial aid to Yugoslavia in return
for Marshal Tito’s renewed sycophany,
the coddling of Egypt—Shepilov, the
Foreign Minister, is in Cairo helping the
Egyptians celebrate the “release of the
Suez Canal from the British yoke”—will
bring new temptations to the countries
which the Soviet bloc is setting out to
buy.
Only the shrewder heads may not fall
for the latest cunning twist in Moscow
propaganda which last week announced
that the benign influence of Marshal
Tito was having a “strongly moderating
influence” on the Russian leaders. These
gentlemen, apparently, are organising to
arrange for the Marshal to go to Washing-
ton to tell the Americans what nice
people the members of the Kremlin
Presidium are.
M.P.s Ask for More
Last week the Cahill Government
decided to appoint an arbitrator to make
a recommendation on a very important
matter. The task assigned to him was
not that of deciding for the Cahills which
side they should take in the “Labor”-
party squabble—they had already decided
to be on the side of the winner. Nor
was he to be asked to adjudicate
on the pros and cons of one-man
buses, or to determine whether the
railways should carry “black” wool,
whether poker-machines should be
licensed, whether the Railways Commis-
sioner should retire before the Chief Fire
Commissioner or vice-versa, or whether
Mr. Cahill himself should accept an
important—and lucrative —post outside
Parliament. The arbitrator’s assignment
is to recommend whether Parliamentary
salaries should be increased.
When the Premier made the announce-
ment he said that he didn’t yet know who
the arbitrator would be, but the person
selected would not necessarily be a
judge. It wouldn’t need a judge to answer
the questions in a manner acceptable to
the vast majority of N.S.W. electors.
Cahill himself knew the answer 12 months
ago when he shelved a decision to appoint
an independent committee to examine
Parliamentary salaries —there was an
election pending. He still knew it last
March, so he wisely refrained from
mentioning Parliamentary salaries in his
policy-speech.
Cahill missed an excellent chance of
showing his broadmindedness and magna-
nimity in choosing his arbitrator. He
could have chosen an Opposition M.L.A.
Nothing would have been lost by the
appointment; he could have rested
assured that a Liberal or Country-party
member would have approached the sub-
ject with the same sincerity of purpose
as one of his own supporters. It’s a
peculiarity of party politics that, although
members of one party don’t consider any
members on the other side have any right
to be in the House at all and that their
election was a gross error, they are agreed
that so long as they are there they’re
worth far more than the salary they
receive.
Three months ago the 94 members of
the N. S. Wales Assembly fought strenu-
ously to gain or retain their seats —at a
known salary of £1875 a year, plus gold-
pass, travelling-allowances, stamp-allow-
ances and all the extras that go with the
job. Since then the Federal Arbitration
Court has given the ordinary wage-plug
a ten-bob rise, saying as it did so that the
economy wouldn’t stand a higher lift.
For their part, the Cahills have
announced staggering increases in fares
and freights on all Government transport,
at the same time warning that even the
increases will not avoid a huge deficit.
“Capacity to pay” is one criterion for
the level of national wages. If the arbi-
trator applies it to N. S. Wales! Govern-
ment finances, the politicians may be
pleading with him to withdraw his report
and leave them as they are.
Victorian Housing
Stanley Gilmour, Victorian Employers’
Federation secretary, has asked the
Bolte Government for a special White
Paper on the interim findings of the
royal commission which has been
investigating Housing Commission
activities.
On evidence which has been given
before the commission to date, it’s
unlikely that the commissioners will be
able to go much further than the Govern-
ment committee in November last year.
The committee found that for the three
years to June 30, 1954, rentals charged
by the Housing Commission were about
£H million less than economic; that
there were substantial losses before and
after the Boltes raised commission rents
by an average of 11 per cent, in
September, 1955 ; and that in July, 1955,
the commission was losing at the rate of
£700,000 a year.
Secretary Gilmour complains that some
of the committee’s findings still are
veiled in secrecy; but disclosed figures
should satisfy the most gloomy pessimist
for the few more weeks before the royal
commission’s headache is published.
Housing Minister Horace Petty hasn’t
hesitated to make one economy. He has
parted with the seven outside architects
who design commission homes for
£lOO,OOO a year. Every time the design
is repeated the panel collects l\ p.c. of
the cost. Architects’ and engineers’ fees
last year: £209,000.
Motor-car Risks
Insurance-offices have announced a
rise of between 10 and p.c. in
premiums on new comprehensive policies
and renewals for car-insurance; and
owners must pay an additional premium
for a cover on the first £lO-w*rth of
damage.
Underwriters have been losing sub-
stantially on third-party insurance and
making a small but diminishing profit on
comprehensive insurance.
They have borne their losses (though
not cheerfully) because they have con-
tinued to make substantial profits on
other classes of insurance. Losses on
motor-car business tend to mount,
although cars bought on hire-purchase
have been rated at the newly announced
rates for years.
The underwriters are not disposed
favorably to the suggestion that care-
less drivers should pay more heavily
than they do at present by the raising of
the general rate and the lowering of no-
claim bonus. They say the bonus is
already substantial, and that the essence
of insurance is that the risk is shared,
with the fortunate paying for the unfor-
A careless driver in a lifetime
couldn’t pay with his premiums for a bad
accident.
One of the chief reasons given for the
high accident-rate in Victoria is the state
of the roads, particularly in the industrial
suburbs of Melbourne ; and all those who
have driven over the rocky roads of
Richmond, the nobbly streets of North-
cote and the fox-holes of Fitzroy will
agree.
Third-party insurance-premiums were
increased in Victoria last October by 60
p.c. upwards, and the underwriters’
results over a full year have yet to be
seen. Third-party insurance business
had to be overhauled. Since the Act was
enforced in 1944, total losses had reached
more than £2 million and the loss-ratio
averaged about 130 p.c., compared with
60 p.c. on ordinary insurance. This was
due chiefly to juries’ awards in accident
cases, a sympathy with a personal victim
rather than an insurance-office.
The elimination of juries from motor-
accident cases, as in England and all
States except Victoria and N.S.W., was
hinted at by the Victorian Government at
the time it was forced into agreement
with the third-party premium-rise, as
well as consideration of proposals to
make drivers bear part of damages
awarded against them ; limitation of the
amount non-paying passengers could
recover against their driver; and provi-
sion for recovery by insurers against
negligent, drunken or unlicensed drivers.
The adoption of some of these reforms
undoubtedly would reduce the losses on
third-party insurance, and in turn the
premiums of comprehensive insurance
might not be so “fantastic,” as the
R.A.C.V. describes them; but nothing
more has been heard about them from
Spring-street.
The Toynbee View
“L. 0.”: Professor Arnold Joseph
Toynbee, visiting Dyason lecturer, gave
Sydney three lectures in all. They were
entitled “What Freedom Costs,” “Can
We Learn Lessons From History?” and
“Democracy in the Atomic Age,” respec-
tively, but the therhe of the relative values
of democracy and dictatorship pre-
dominated throughout. Although it was
obvious where the speaker’s sympathies
lay, he saw clearly—too clearly, maybe,
for impassioned oratory —that there were
at least two sides to every question, and
that, on the whole, material success—
ephemeral as it might be —was more
readily achieved by dictatorship than by
democracy.
Democracy had been slow in develop-
ing, and the old regime of privilege—be
it aristocratic, dictatorial or due to the
inequality of the sexes—had continued
for at least 150 years beyond the start
of the Industrial Revolution. It was
likely, however, that democracy would
prove a more stable political system than
that of government by a privileged
minority.
The new system would enjoy a wider
basis of consent, but, he emphasised, there
was danger in the increased proportion
of voices which could have a say with-
out possessing the necessary experience.
It was doubtful if the human race had
learned much from history, either as
individuals or as States, but, Toynbee
pointed out, the study of it at least
allowed of deductions which could be
used. One was that a new Government,
with little experience, was likely to make
grave mistakes and so cause a reversion
to the form it had displaced. Thus, the
chopping-off of the head of Charles I had
been responsible for the return of
England to monarchy. The pace of the
change towards emancipation was crucial.
It must not be so slow as to cause revolt
nor so fast that it outran the majority’s
power of exercising its rights.
Bureaucracy was a danger to both
democracy and totalitarianism. In a
Government elected by popular vote, the
really important object appeared to be
the ability to do things in such a way
that questions as to methods and results
could be answered to the satisfaction of
the inquirer. The civil servant was not
anxious so much to discover the most
efficient way of accomplishment, but to
find a method of procedure which would
give rise to as few criticisms as possible.
With the increasing complexity of modern
forms of government, the permanent
public servant was becoming less and less
able to answer more and more questions.
High Flying
“Stromlo” : Until some Federal Govern-
ment is prepared to get “tough” with its
departmental advisers propagandists
with skill worthy of a better cause —and
appoint some adequate and permanent
body to check Government spending, the
Joint Committee of Public Accounts will
continue to render the Parliament and the
taxpayers a service of immense value.
The disclosures of the committee and its
recommendations can surely be ignored
"The Bulletin," One Shilling
With the issue of June 27, the price of
The Bulletin will go to a shilling. For
some time past readers have been getting
their Bulletin below the cost of produc-
tion ; it will be readily appreciated that
this is something which can’t continue.
At a shilling The Bulletin will cost
twice what it cost in 1930. In the same
period the price of most daily papers has
quadrupled—from a penny to fourpence.
Since 1930 wages have more than trebled,
and newsprint has risen in price nearly
sixfold. Transport costs have multiplied.
The pressure of costs has recently became
even more intense.
The Bulletin, a completely inde-
pendent newspaper, provides its readers
with opinion, commentary, criticisms and
other reading-matter and black-and-white
art that are published nowhere else, and
which are in other ways unique and world-
renowned. Its standards are unexcelled
in the Southern Hemisphere. It is the
national Australian newspaper, and has
been outstanding in its forecasts and
counsel in respect of political and
economic developments in our generation.
Its humor, its art, its stories and its verse
derive from the people and the soil of
Australia itself.
by any Government only at its peril.
There has been no indication, fortunately,
of individual dishonesty, and little of
individual incompetence. The commit-
tee’s investigations have disclosed that
most public servants are keen on their
jobs, and men of. personal probity and
considerable ability.
Yet the committee’s reports have also
revealed, with the stark and shocking
clearness of flashes of lightning, degrees
of muddled thinking and of careless or
thoughtless disregard of the public purse
(which is, after all, supplied only from
the hip-pockets and purses of individual
and sorely-beset taxpayers) that have led
to an incredible amount of spending
without a full sense of responsibility. The
latest report, on the Department of
Civil Aviation, just tabled in Canberra,
furnishes examples.
This department has done its best to
have aerodromes established here, there
and everywhere for the “promotion” of
air-travel. It has drawn up regulations,
taken advertising-space in booklets, put
in airport safety-devices, all with the
enthusiasm of a lottery-winner “shout-
ing” in the local pub on the night of his
win. The committee has reported on the
“haphazard and perfunctory” attitude
towards the spending of public funds, the
curious contradictions on the distribution
of responsibility for the sealing of run-
ways, the acquiring of land for aero-
dromes and the provision of airport build-
ings, including hangars, and disregard of
safeguards necessary to protect the public
funds. It has not suggested, of course,
any measures likely to prejudice the safety
of the public (on which Australian air-
lines have a magnificent record) or to
involve unnecessary expenditure of time
or labor.
Australians are an airminded people,
and they mostly find their air-services
well-run and satisfactory. They are also,
in recent years, rather disinclined to ques-
tion the spending of this or other depart-
ments. This report should be printed in
popular form, and distributed free to
every voter. It might stir the moribund
belief that there must be the strictest
checks when anyone else’s money is being
spent.
Queensland Lands Lesson
The State of Queensland is the largest
owner of land, outside the totalitarian
countries, in the world, and most of
that land is on lease for productive pur-
poses at rents which vary under a system
of assessment and changing conditions.
In the first half-century of land-
administration, legislation piled up
mountainously through progressive
amendments of the Land Act, and with
it came dissatisfaction and chaos.
At a crucial stage one man took over
the job of rationalising what seemed
bound to end in unmanageable chaos—
W. L. Payne, now president of the
Queensland Land Court. Under his
planning the Act was amended, and
land-valuation and rental-appraisement
put on a simple and sane basis.
Since Payne retired to the presidency
of the Land Court there has been a steady
drift and a growing chorus of innuendo
and attack, which eventually reached its
culmination in accusations made by
Senator Wood, a Government Senator in
Canberra. These accusations led to the
{Continued on next page)


appointment of Townley, J., as a royal-
commissioner to inquire into certain
matters affecting administration, the Gair
Government apparently being ready and
eager to act, since it was felt that the
charges were a mare’s-nest.
Mr. Justice Townley, in fact, has found
that the allegations made by Senator
Wood were “unsupported by evidence
and unfounded.”
Nevertheless, the inquiry opened up a
remarkable view of the conduct of the
Lands Department: of the chairman of
the Land Board at loggerheads with his
Minister, and the writing of accusing
letters to a union official directed against
the Minister, his responsible superior,
which was made use of in the A.W.U.
journal, the “Worker.”
From his evidence and that of others
there emerged testimony which showed
Thomas A. Foley, Minister for Mines,
to have interfered in matters affecting
rents and pastoral leases which discre-
tion should have assured would have
been better dealt with by permanent
officers outside political influence.
Various charges against Mr. Foley
were adduced, and as the result of one
of them —that he had offered to give Mr.
Francis Marsh Bell, a well - known
grazier, a grant (or favorable considera-
tion of a grant) of a lease of the valuable
Camboon Stud holding on the Dawson
River, in consideration of a proposed gift
of £lOOO to “Labor” political funds—
Foley was last April suspended from his
portfolio and sent before a police-
magistrate on a charge involving official
corruption. His defence alleged that he
was victim of a political conspiracy
which had been hatched in view of the
imminence of the elections.
Evidence was submitted for the prose-
cution that Bell had consulted Mr. Mc-
Gill, the leader of the Bar (now dead),
after an alleged offer was made to him
and had afterwards sent a registered letter
to Foley dealing with the matter.
Evidence of the receipt of this letter at
the Lands Office was given, and the
magistrate, after refusing to hold relevant
proposed evidence by a Supreme Court
judge, ruled that there was no prima
facie case on which to send the Minister
before a jury.
He was discharged, re-elected by his
electorate and became Minister for Mines
in the new Cabinet.
Mr. Justice Townley, having listened
to a large mass of evidence and lengthy
addresses, has found not only that there
was a prima facie case, but that Foley was
guilty of corrupt conduct in soliciting a
donation of £lOOO to “Labor”-party funds
from Bell; also that the Minister had
improperly applied the matter of infec-
tion by Bathurst -burr on a Dutton River
holding in s.-w. Queensland to the pro-
posed transfer of that property from an
estate in liquidation to Robert Stanley
White ; also, that the delay was intended
to benefit White, who did, in fact, benefit.
The commissioner found Foley guilty
of corrupt conduct in approving the
exemption of White from conditions law-
fully attached to the lease, but made no
finding about White’s own conduct —
White is dead.
He said tfiat before the commission
there was no evidence of corruption on
the part of any other person, this includ-
ing Mr. Creighton, chairman of the Land
Board, who is under suspension—this
“however misguided, exaggerated and
wrong his correspondence and conduct
might have been.”
Mr. Foley afterwards announced his
resignation from the Ministry but not
from his Parliamentary seat (Belyando).
He declared that the commissioner, in
the face of his acquittal in the police
court, had found him guilty on evidence
“much of which I am advised would not
be admitted in a court of law (namely,
hearsay evidence),” and that “citizens
duly acquitted in courts of law should
not be destroyed in their reputation and
their office by evidence which would not
be considered worthy by such a court.”
He might have added that Ministers
who insist on carrying-out negotiations
in person and on making decisions which
should be made by the administrative
heads of the department, entirely apart
from suspicion of political influence, run
a grave risk, even where they are Simon
Pures.
POLITICAL POINTS
Problem Number One in “Labor”
circles in N.S.W. is: Who’s going to
take care of the caretakers?
• •
Federal Parliament will complete its
sittings this week in the usual rush of
shoutings and divisions. The highlight
will be the debate on Casey’s Foreign
Affairs statement which will give the
Opposition a chance for the full airing of
its new Moscow-line.
• •
Then there was the M.H.R.’s wife who
was listening to a Parliamentary broad-
cast and rushed off to Canberra when
she heard that her husband had got the
call!
• •
The Comrades have begun in Aus-
tralia on Stalin. The “Communist
Review,” discussing “the disturbing fact
that our party is one of ascending age-
levels and declining numbers,” says that
conditions had been difficult because of
the cult of the individual around Stalin
and Beria’s excesses. “The open, critical
assessment of the cult of the individual
and errors arising in our own party and
parties overseas during the reign of the
cult can only assist to win new members
if explained boldly, honestly and
correctly.” Still, it would have won Joe’s
sardonic approval.
• «
Twelve research contracts have been
awarded to Australian universities by the
Australian Atomic Energy Commission
for a total of £38,700, making the total
research grant £68,700. Six Sydney pro-
fessors, two in Melbourne, one in Queens-
land, one in Adelaide and one in
Tasmania will thus be engaged on a
variety of tasks w'hich Supply Minister
Beale says will form an important part of
Australia’s atomic-energy programme.
0 0
The Medical Board of N.S.W., having
trodden on doctors’ corns a month ago
by seemingly forbidding them to use non-
medical degrees and titles, has now told
them through the “Medical Journal” that
that was not its intention. It will now
register titles and honors conferred by
the Crown, military decorations and all
degrees, whether medical or non-medical,
which are recognised by the board, on
the application of the holder. Many
Sydney doctors feel that even this
apology is rather presumptuous.
0 0
Under the new rates for top State
officers in Victoria, A. T. (“Teddy”)
Smithers, Director of Finance, gets, with
some perks from boards, £5045. It makes
him the highest-paid departmental head in
any State.
Some of the rises are as much as
£862 a year, and the Victorian-p.s. is now
the highest-paid in the nation. A strange
exception is D. D. Paine (£4300), chair-
man of the Public Service Board which
arbitrated and brought in the determina-
tion. He is below his N.S.W. counterpart.
Paine acted on the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court’s decision in upholding
the Commonwealth P.S. Arbitrator’s
decision to apply the metal-trades formula
to the Commonwealth p.s. Tasmania
already has looked at the Victorian
reasoning in reaching the decision ; and
it may not be long before the other States
join in.
0 0
Miss Greet Hofmans has not been
invited to compete in either the Ampol
or the Vacuum reliability trials. But
there’s still time.
0 0
Intriguing item from the minutes of
the proceedings of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council, Tuesday, June 5, 1956:
Mr. Maloney laid upon the table the
undermentioned papers (11) Obscene and
Indecent Publications Act, 1901, as
amended —Amendment of Schedule Four
—Exemption of “Australian Orchid
Review” and “Golf in Australia.”
0 0
“In the ACT”: Inspired hints that the
Madame Ollier case carried the seeds of
trouble for the Government have
appeared in some gullible newspapers.
Eddie Ward, apparently misled by these
or by his own imagination, placed several
questions on the notice-paper, including
one which asked Menzies if he intended
to make a public apology to the lady, and
if the Government intended “to pay com-
pensation for the pain and suffering
which she has endured.” Last week he
got his answer. The Prime Minister said,
in writing, that no apology would be
offered or compensation paid. He
explained that
the only action taken by the Australian
Government on this matter was to inform
the French Government, as it was in duty
bound to do, that certain evidence to be
given before the royal commission (on
espionage) would implicate Madame Ollier,
and to hand to the French Government the
relevant transcript of proceedings. All
subsequent action was taken entirely by
the French Government. The Australian
Government played no part in arraigning
her for trial nor in any of the events lead-
ing up to the trial. Furthermore, the
French Government itself made no charge
against Madame Ollier until its own
officers had carried out an independent
investigation. Madame Ollier was acquitted
on the particular charge on which she was
tried in Paris.
The Prime Minister added, in reply to a
query whether this lady had now been
reinstated by the French Foreign Office,
that this was the case, “according to
newspaper reports.”
0 #
“Symonym”: Congratulations to
Henry Bolte, Vic. Premier, who set out
late in May to interest overseas firms in
Victoria and particularly anyone with
20-million dollars. After a welter of
hamburgers, tours, TV, radio- and press-
"FARES, PLEASE!"
appearances, dinners and lectures, he
came up, within a fortnight, with a pro-
mise of half-a-million dollars from the
Caterpillar Tractor Co., and Wall-street is
still some distance away.
• •
As Sydney newspapers place consider-
able importance on the news-value of
railway breakdowns and hold-ups, why
doesn’t Commissioner Winsor cash-in on
news-releases instead of banning them?
Publicised by a Winsor slogan such as
“Cash for a flash on our latest crash!”
it might prove quite a profitable business.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Political pundits in
Canberra are tipping that Sir Philip Mc-
Bride may become deputy-leader of the
Libs, when Sir Eric Harrison goes to
London. Mcßride has no ambitions to
become Prime Minister, but there’s a
strong feeling that his appointment as
deputy would prevent hard feelings as
between Casey and Holt, and still leave
the way open to the selection of one of
them if and when Menzies retired.
• •
“Collins St.”: The tick-tack man, who
has been permitted to gesticulate more
or less peacefully from and to Melbourne
racecourses, is being moved off with the
current campaign against his employers,
the s.-p. merchants. Five have been put
off Flemington and Caulfield at recent
meetings, and Roy (Transport) Ansett,
president of the country Mornington
Club, has been so successful at pointing
them out to the police that he can’t have
been seeing much of his own club’s racing.
I wonder if the race-broadcasters will
have to learn tick-tack when the racing-
clubs’ ban on all except the barest last-
minute information operates from
August 1?
0 0
In England a convention of holiday-
resort publicity-officers has decided that
for advertising purposes “a stone’s
throw” must not exceed 100yds.
Wonder how they’d define “suburb”?
An advertisement in a Sydney newspaper
announces a sale of building-blocks in
a “new suburb.” The land is “within
easy walking-distance of the station.”
The station?—Glenbrook, 42 miles from
Sydney, in the foothills of the Blue
Mountains.
0 0
From the debate on the Shipping Com-
mission bill:
Mr. Townley : The normal term of
appointment of commissioners will be five
years . . .
Dr. Evatt: Will they have any qualifica-
tions? s
Mr. Townley: Yes, that matter is men-
tioned later.
Mr. Haylen : Will they have any
convictions?
Mr. Townley: We all have not had the
same experience as the honorable member.
0 0
“In the ACT”: When do people in
Britain get time to read and view? The
U.K. has the world’s highest newspaper-
readership rate, according to its High
Commissioner in Canberra, with 609
copies of daily newspapers sold for every
1000 of the population. Two national
dailies there have the world’s largest indi-
vidual circulations, with more than four
million each ; a Sunday newspaper sells
more than eight million copies. But in
addition the number of licensed TV-sets
increased from 560,000 in 1951 to more
than five million early last year. There
are also nearly 10 million radio-sets. Does
anyone ever sit down and just think?
• •
Extract from “The Future of Labor,”
the pamphlet stating the case for the
N.S.W. Executive in “Labor’s” family
squabble:
Who will support a Party in which the
rank-and-file have no rights? A Party in
which the rank-and-file cannot elect the
executive they want, but things must be
so managed that the executive elected will
be congenial to a majority of the Federal
Executive?
Who indeed? Why, the N.S.W.
Executive!
• •
“Benbow”: Quite agree as to the non-
secrecy of the ballot in Queensland State
elections (B. 30/5/’56); every ballot-
paper has the voter’s roll-number pen-
cilled in on a corner by the presiding-
officer, who then sticks that comer down.
As a defeated candidate I was present at
the consideration of informal votes, from
which I got 19 and my opponent 53.
Many were rendered informal because
voters had tom off this turned-down
corner, believing in the absolute inviol-
ability of the secret ballot. They could
have rendered their votes effective by
unsticking the corner and adding a digit
to either end of the number written there,
then resealing the corner.
• 0
If private shipping companies or air-
lines increase their fares and freights,
that’s exploitation. Authority any
“Labor” politician. If Government rail-
ways and tramways do it, that’s realism.
Authority—Premier Cahill.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T PAUSE in my perusal of Melbourne
“Age” to salute the beer-drinkers of
N. S. Wales. These human camels
needed, to carry them through the desert
of 1955, no less than 90,259,012 gallons
of It. This is over 331 acre-feet, which,
if it were without malt, hops, etc., would
be enough to irrigate four dairyfarms.
It would flood Sydney Cricket Ground to
a depth of roughly 40ft., or the height of
a third-story window-sill. It would raise
by 2ft. a lake 1000yds. across. I have no
population-figures for later than 1947 ;
but putting it at three-and-a-quarter
million of men, women, babes-in-arms,
babes-not-in-arms and teetotallers, it
would seem that each and every one
of them averaged more than 36 gallons
for the year, or two glasses a day. This
is making me thirsty. I would like to cal-
culate how many fire-brigades it would
supply, and how many fires could be put
out; but I must go and help Victoria’s
tally along. For this is Olymp-hic year!
—“D.B.”
♦!* £♦
“Apemantus”: Our mechanised police-
men uphold the tradition of the heavy
foot. In Westralia a Traffic Branch
vehicle-examiner trod on the brake of a
’39-model sedan and the driver-side front
wheel collapsed.
“D.J.G.”: Within 10 years, say two
i Melbourne statisticians who have been
i applying the Gompertz curve to the future
of television, 90 per cent, of all homes
in Melbourne and Sydney will have
television. I breathe easier: our home
is in the last-10-per-cent, group. We
were the second-last family in the street
to acquire a motor-car, and are among
the very few who possess neither refrig-
erator nor washing-machine. The 10-
years’ grace allowed us by the statisticians
means that our children will get through
their schooling without a TV-screen to
distract their attention from homework.
By the time television enters our home, if
ever, my wife and 1 will be able to sit
back and watch the programmes that we
want to see —and maybe by that time
there will be some.
<J4
“Buskin”: At the 200th performance of
“Kismet” at the Melbourne Princess all
ladies in the audience received a box of
chocolates. When the Katherine Dun-
ham troupe went into action at the Mel-
bourne Tiv. all ladies attending the first-
night show received a neat little phial of
perfume. When the men get a bottle of
Scotch each we’ll know that competition
is really becoming keen.
“Bannon” (London): If her
Majesty’s eye for military detail
is as keen as was her grandma’s,
then she must have been agree-
ably surprised during her Aus-
tralian tour by the precision of
the R.M.C. Cadets when she
presented them with their new
colors at Duntroon. On May
31 I saw my first Trooping the
Color by the Brigade of Guards
on the Horse Guards’ Parade,
and, while nothing can detract
from the magnificent spectacle
of 600 picked guardsmen in full
ceremonial dress parading to the rousing
marches of the massed bands and drums
of the Brigade of Guards, for sheer
military precision, to the cadets at Dun-
troon I dips me lid.
*♦+ * *■
“Clem”: Some of the calendars put out
by Beaurepaire’s for 1956 show no May
31. Sir Frank Beaurepaire died on May
31!
❖ ❖ ♦>
“S.M.S.”: They came into the dining-
room, gave their dinner-order, and were
given drinks, for which he paid. As
they were preparing to leave, he took
the bill, pulled a wallet out of his pocket,
and then began to look worried. His
companion opened her bag, took out a
pound-note and handed it to him under
the table. That hurdle over, they went
out —he paying the bill. She, a very well-
dressed mother and he, her equally well-
dressed small son.
“Got a match?”
“Fasdean”: “Sister Ellell’s” bonnet-
over-windmill-tosser (B. 30/5/’56) has
a rival who has blown into our stork-
depot no fewer than four times. Same
Lothario ; he pays the score without a
grouse, too. Since the lawful Mrs.
Lothario is one of our best and most
regular customers, we suspect Matron of
a sneaking regard for the bad lad.
“Well,” she defends herself, “with all
this planned parenthood, where would
we be if it wasn’t for these people?”
♦♦♦ * ♦>
“Bene”: A few weeks ago I had my
eyes tested by a registered optometrist,
who provided me with a pair of spectacles
and charged me £ll 15s. I looked up
my list of Commonwealth medical
benefits and noted “Optical—benefit of
“What idiot said, ‘The Woman always pays'?”
£1 per pair of spectacles.” Well, I
thought, £1 is better than nothing, so I
put in my claim to the agent, only to be
told that I must produce a certificate
from the doctor who referred me to the
optometrist. Such a certificate would
have cost me a further £2 2s. —net loss,
£1 25.; a remarkable “benefit”! I with-
drew my claim.
* ❖ ❖
“Ex-Ped.”: The “phantom coin” of
“S.W.K.” (B. 30/5/’56) is a foreigner,
but not a ghostly one. Swedish styfver,
Dutch stuiver, German stuber and
English “stiver” all refer to a small silver
or copper coin. With the many times
more valuable gulden it appears in “The
Pied Piper of Hamelin”:
“A thousand guilders! Come, take fifty!”
“With you, don’t think I’ll bate a stiver.”
My full-size reproduction of a copper
stuiver is slightly larger than a half-penny.
The apocryphal “brass razoo,” though,
has always eluded me, too.
“Cyda”: That “phantom coin” the
“stiver” in the Old Dart derives from the
“stive-room,” at the top of a flourmill,
placed there to filter the air, and to
collect the fine particles or “stivers”
always present. Individually these
particles are of no value. Collectively
they are the finest flour.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Lady Harrison
devoted the proceeds of her pleasant and
well-illustrated version of her experiences
during the Royal tour (Sir Eric was in
charge of it) to the Crippled Children’s
Society of N.S.W. The limited edition
of 500 copies at two-guineas is sold out,
and only a few copies remain of the 3000
copies at 15s. A specially-bound copy
in white morocco was accepted by the
Queen. The book is Me Too, and the
society has netted about £2200. It seems
likely that the authoress, encouraged by
this success, will try her hand at some-
thing more in the imaginative line in
London when Sir Eric has taken over as
High Commissioner.
“Pelham”: London bobbies gently butt
stragglers out of bars at closing-time
with their helmet-protected heads. Many
citizens would be glad to see helmets on
our police-heads again. The shiny helmet
was a dignified item of uniform which
inspired respect from everybody, and
though the ill-natured might say that Aus-
tralian police are qualified to do the
butting without the helmets, one remem-
bers a time when the glint of a street-
light on a helmet would disperse larrikins
and thugs.
❖ *l* ♦>
“Kia-Ora”: A New Australian enter-
ing a bus happily greeted a workmate,
an Old Australian. N.A., with much
gesticulation and a singsong voice, went
on to explain his popularity with the girls
at end-of-week dances. Then tragedy
spread across his face. “When lam with
Diane, I love Diane,” he cried. “When I
am with Gayle, I love Gayle.” The Old
stirred. “Pop their names in a hat and
draw,” he advised. The look of horror
on N.A.’s face rocked the bus.
“Ceg”: An item in a London hotel-
notice of 1810 may apply in Melbourne
during the Olympic Games:
Ad. a night for bed; 6 d. with supper.
Not more than 5 to sleep in one bed.
No boots to be worn in bed.
Organ-grinders to sleep in wash-house.
No dogs allowed in kitchen, or upstairs.
No razor-grinders or tinkers taken in.
See which one?
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: A woman author who had
a book published on her own account by
a New Zealand printing-firm about 25
years ago, at a cost of £BO, wants to
publish another, same type, and same
number of copies as before; but the
same firm wants £7OO, and says “extras”
could make it more.
❖ ❖ *>
A N old patient of the Repatriation
Hospital kept telling everyone:
“Next week I get my new teeth.” The
day he came into the ward with the new
teeth, they looked about a foot long,
and I could only think of those films they
make of talking animals. He was almost
crying with rage and disappointment.
“I never had a lip pushed out like that.
I look like a horse,” he said. He did, too.
We told him to take them back to the
dentist. But before the dentist could
see him he went into town wearing the
teeth. Apparently he decided to have a
cup of tea at his favorite tea-shop,
started to cross the street, and then,
remembering his teeth, turned back.
Brakes protested as cars pulled-up to
avoid him ; a tram bearing down on him
clanged furiously. He found himself in
the lee of six-feet of thunder-browed
policeman. “What the” began the
law; then took another look at the very
small old man, and proceeded more
quietly: “Why did you turn back?”
“Because of me teeth.” “Because of
what?” The little man bared every tooth
in his head, and pointed. The traffic
flowed past them, directed by mechanical
movements of the policeman’s mighty
arms, while, impressed despite himself, he
inspected those colossal dentures. “H’m,”
he said at last, “someone’s certainly made
a b mess of you, old-timer,” and
escorted him back to the kerb. —“F.A.M.”
TIME TO PAY
“The Commonwealth Savings Bank’s new
branch at Wynyard, Sydney, will open at
8.15 a.m. and close at 6 p.m.; while the
N. S. Wales State Lotteries will close at 5.30
p.m. instead of at 3.30 p.m.”
The Commonwealth is full of bounce;
One hears its Savings Bank announce :
“Our Wynyard banking-hours will be,
Instead of only 10-till-3,
Considerably more prolix —
No less than 8.15-till-6.’’
The gesture is in truth subliihe,
For time is money; money time;
And here they volunteer to pay
Nine-and-three-quarter-hours a day :
O noble bank ! O splendid gift 1
What an encouragement to thrift!
1 shall not waste it, have no fears,
I’ll save my hours till they are years,
And spend them on the lotteries, in
The hope that, given time, I’ll win . . .
And lotteries, not to be outdone,
Have added to their afternoon :
Two hours’ more chance to have a
chance!
How curious that this circumstance
Should leave me far less thunderstruck
Than would a little bit of luck !
Ah, bank-hours well may have no end
For us with only Time to spend !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AfY newly-married friends, who have
been studying the Sydney “Herald”
house-ads., tell me that the one that most
attracted them lately was that which
offered, along with the spac. Inge., tld.
bth., and glor. ktchn, “two love, beds.” —
“Mac Hoots.”
♦j* ♦> *:*
“Doric”: The prevailing male craze
for giving-up smoking is getting me down.
If only they wouldn’t talk about it so
proudly! Each time I light-up I get
that smug “You poor weakling” look.
Should I cough, I feel that they are
mentally calculating the cost of a
wreath. They can give up all their vices
for all I care, if only they don’t sprout
wings at the same time —they won’t
fly very far with them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emtee”: Recruiting-advertisement in
our daily stressing the opportunity of
“The bride s a New Aussie just out from Italy."
world travel awaiting young men who
joined the Navy carried an illustration
depicting the four points of the compass,
with a sailor’s head in the centre and
at each point. But the artist had trans-
posed the East and West points ; with the
example of the marrying-Army before it,
the Navy has no doubt decided that
East is West, and West is East,
And ever the twain shall meet.
♦> ♦>
“S.M.S.”: Went into the drama-
departments of three Sydney bookshops
to buy a copy of Sheridan’s “The
Rivals,” at present showing here. Was
greeted in all three shops by, “Who is it
by?” and “What is his Christian-name?”
*;♦ ❖
“Apprentice Long Ago”: “Tabba” (B.
23 / 5 / ’56) is not Malone in wondering why
the almost completely thiefproof steering-
column locks were discontinued (they
are still fitted by at least one Continental
firm). One theory is that it was to protect
against himself the smart-alec type who
turned the key when slowing-down to
stop and could be in difficulties if an
emergency required a turn of the wheel.
A factory-representative is more con-
vincing : systematic surveys show, he says,
that steering-locks are not a selling-
feature, and as they cost more to pro-
duce than an ignition-lock there was no
sense in continuing to fit them. Blame
for the virtual disappearance of this lock
falls on the car-buying public, although
insurance-companies helped by not allow-
ing rebate on premiums for cars fitted
with it.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“P.M.”: With Sydney bus- and tram-
fares at Is. for three sections (say, two
miles), “S.M.S.’s” friend would actually
save a few bob by walking, even in shoes
costing him £7 (B. 6/6/’56). An average
sole stands up to 220 miles of hiking ;
superior leather carries one about 300
miles. To travel that distance in bus or
tram at the new rates will set one back
not less than £7 10s. Of course, this
reckoning ignores the time-factor, which,
if considered, puts walking out-of-court
irrespective of the cost of riding.
♦♦♦ *X* ❖
“Ceg”: So Chinese soldiers don’t fight
in wet weather (B. 6/ 6 / ’56)? An Aus-
tralian timber-merchant whose business
took him to the Far East at the time of
the Chinese-Japanese war told me that
when he boarded one train he was very
surprised to find the front half occupied
by Japanese troops and the rear half by
Chinese soldiers, all off to the same war.
But what really amused him was that the
Whaffors all carried umbrellas. Perhaps
when the rains came they put up their
gamps and sat down to fan-tan or
mah-jongg.
■»> *
“Hans Hard”: “Spring Street’s”
bewilderment on visiting the Victorian
Yabber-Yabber House (B. 23/ 5/ ’56)
reminds me of when I took a fourteen-
year-old girl through the Queensland
legislature. Estimates were being read
during our gallery-session, and the
Premier was addressing an almost-empty
House, many of whose members were
doing crossword-puzzles, reading the
racing-pages, or just plain dozing. My
sponsor, wishing to enliven the visit,
suggested that we have lunch with a
couple of Cabinet Ministers to “give
young June something to remember.” In
due course we lunched with the V.I.P.s,
one of whom (since translated to Can-
berra) asked, “Well, June, and what do
you think of our Parliament?” “I think,”
said June, “that Daddy’s perfectly right
—you get your money a damn’ sight too
easily! ”
♦j» ❖ ❖
“Aeolus”: American providers of
luxurious cars have gone one better than
car-radios ; “Melody on the Move” is a
high-fidelity record-player usable in all
conditions of travel short of a collision.
The unit uses 7in. disks at 16f r.p.m.,
“Take no notice of them sirens, Lennie—they lure you to your doom."
with recordings of either 550 or 700
grooves to the inch, depending on whether
the record is of speech or music. So at
last the motorist will be able to break
records without endangering his life.
*l*
“Lorna Doone”: Notices prominently
displayed on closed doors around the
foyer at the flicks: “Gentlemen out of
order,” and then, “Gentlemen only
temporary.”
♦♦♦ ♦>
“G.M.”: Wreckers have been demolish-
ing an old savings-bank on one of
Hobart’s busiest comers. All that
remained standing was the strongroom,
and it looked as if the contractor would
be able to start on the new building any
day. A man with a pneumatic-drill and
explosive-charges went to town on the
strongroom. At the end of a week he
had barely dented it, and it now looks as
if he’ll be a month getting it down. Pave-
ment supervisors agree that any cracks-
man who manages to get into a bank’s
strongroom deserves all he gets there.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: About 30 years back the
Financial Commissioner of British North
Borneo had a £26,000-win —he drew
third-placed horse, Sirdar, in the Calcutta
Sweep. Always generous, he took the
entire white population of Sandakan per
boat for a picnic at Teganac. He
announced his retirement; and on the
eve of his departure four of his poker-
playing friends thought it would be a nice
gesture to provide him with a‘ last game.
He agreed on condition that he be host.
The session ended by prearrangement at
3 a.m. The Chief Engineer, the Forests
Commissioner, the Doctor and the
Logging Superintendent added up their
losses of 1100 dollars and the host
thanked them for a touching farewell.
+*♦
“Rimutuka”: At a Brisbane sale a
clamorous mob surged through the
doors sending the assistant flying. Police
managed to close the doors again. Feel-
ing ran high; several fights threatened ;
three children were lost; and more police
had to control the mob in the street and
act as bodyguards to the dozen allowed
into the store from time to time. “Oh,
these women!”—but this was at a big
men’s-wear store, and the unruly bargain-
hunters were all men!
♦> ♦> " ❖
“Ceg”: Some Melbourne suburban
sausage-sellers have been fined from £l5
to £75 for such things as meat-deficiency
of 17 per cent., a fat-excess of 17 per cent,
and 80 per cent, excess of sulphur-dioxide.
The catering-director of the Olympic
Games has “designed” a sausage to meet
the requirements of the American team ;
a snag to contain all pork, and not part-
cereal as most Australians know these
things. The Health Inspector at
Williamstown has disclosed even more
unusual ingredients of sausages; shot-
gun-pellets in a Strasbourg sausage, and
a finger-bandage in a frankfurt. Other
queer tastes mentioned by the same
gentleman were: a ball in a loaf of bread,
a dehydrated mouse in a tin of sugar-
milk, a snail in a pie, and a nail in a
cake; delicacies beside which an all-
pork sausage must seem an uninteresting
and unvaried diet.
♦> ❖
“Aristocrat”: On the wedding-morn
the bridegroom-to-be had a few drinks
with the boys and as a result bride-to-be
declared that there would be no wedding.
Frenzied searching by the bridegroom
and the bride’s mother failed to locate
the bride. But as it would have been a
pity to waste all the food, etc., prepared,
the reception was held as scheduled, and
everyone had a wonderful time. Presents
were displayed and admired, wine flowed
freely, an orchestra played for dancing,
and the party was still in full swing at
midnight, our town’s leading citizens
among the guests.
❖ ♦>
“Travel”: My husband and I were
listening to one of London’s Hyde Park
orators when a woman whacked me on
the back and said, “Don’t listen to him,
he’s a menace and a ratbag!” I started
to move away from her in case I got
caught up in something. She followed
me; so I smiled, shrugged and threw my
hands up as if I didn’t understand her.
“You speak English?” she said. 1
shrugged again. “Parlez-vous frangaU
alors?” Shrugged again. “My God,”
she said, turning to people nearest her,
“they’re hopeless, aren’t they?” Off
she pounded. My husband had missed
most of it; I told him and made him
laugh, too. Next thing we saw in the
distance this same woman on a soapbox
herself, exhorting the crowd to come
closer and hear what she had to say, her
bright orange sweater and black beret
high above their heads. We moved on
before she perhaps spotted me again.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: After completing an
evening course of study for a University
degree I laid aside my books with the
profound feeling of relief that never
again would I spend my leisure puzzling
over abstruse and academic problems.
But I’m wrestling nightly with the same
old problems—solving quadratic equa-
tions, juggling with geometry, sighing
over the waywardness of defective
French verbs, and bearding the dreaded
logarithm in its lair. My elder lad is
tackling his Intermediate this year ; three
years hence, with luck, he will have com-
pleted Matric., and his brother will be
doing Inter., so that I have six years of
study and anxiety ahead. If I survive,
I can put my feet up in the evening and
relax —until the youngest member of the
family starts her studies in earnest. And
they say it’s great to have your family
growing up around you!
A JOB TO FIND PLEASURE
“Replying to her counsel, plaintiff said that
the only time her husband was ever m a
good mood was immediately after he had blacK-
ened her eye.”
One bloke, in search of needed cheer,
Likes to take home some bottled beer;
Another, to beat-off frustrations,
May rustle-up some hearty laughs
By browsing over photographs.
In albums, of his wife's relations.
I know some chaps who gain delight
By listening to their kids recite!
Others will find their time’s employ-
ment
In turning-over wet cement,
Or listening-in to Parliament
Will even yield them some enjoyment.
It takes all sorts to make a world;
And pleasure’s flag you’ll find unfurled
O’er many a field of recreation.
Don’t rashly, then, condemn this bod.
Whose entertainment you find odd —
For him it had a fascination.
No tender word, nor tenderer food,
Could dissipate his doleful mood;
The only time that he reflected
An uninhibited delight
Was when, picking with her a fight,
His wildly-flung right-swing connected.
Strong fighting-blood coursed through his
veins;
It found expression (as obtains
Sometimes ) not by a stoush with
fellows —
That way he might risk getting hurt —
But by a skirmish with a skirt.
He found sweet music in her bellows.
What bliss! What ecstasy a man
May garner when his Joan or Ann
In disputation leaves a blinker
Unguarded, and he fastens there,
To blossom in the deep-blue air,
A gorgeous multicolored “stinker”!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Charles Sinclair Butt, new chairman of
Olympic Consolidated Industries, Ltd., is
a country boy who was trained as an
accountant to follow his father in the
banking profession, at a time when rubber
was small beer in Australia. He
left the bank to go into industry and was
at Dunlop’s when Frank Beaurepaire was
looking for likely men for Olympic. (He
picked Nigel Crawford and Frank
Grainger at the same time. Both retired
last year, though Grainger is still on the
board.) Charlie Butt has been virtual
chairman for many years ; Beaurepaire,
once the company began to hum, devoted
his chief interest to youth and sportsmen
and spent long periods overseas. The
man who has taken over has a less
dynamic approach to leisure ; he golfs
and reads.
• •
A by-election for the Metropolitan
Province has returned the endorsed
Liberal candidate, R. Clair Mattiske, to
the Westralian Legislative Council. A
tall, fair-haired 44, he is well known in
Perth business-circles as a chartered
accountant and also director of the Build-
ing Industry Congress. He learnt his
political pothooks during the several
years he was a member for the Scar-
borough Ward on the Perth Road Board,
and as a delegate to the Local Govern-
ment Association.
• •
“Cag”: Walter Annandale Jack, 80 on
May 12, is still an active member of the
Melbourne stationery firm of Andrew
Jack Dyson, founded by his grandfather.
Back in the ’eighties young Walter
Annandale Jack was one of the first boys
to enrol at Brighton Grammar School;
much later that small schoolboy was to
become one of the first presidents of the
Old Boys’ Association, a foundation
member of the school’s corporation, and
27 years ago a member of its council,
whose chair he has occupied for the past
10. On June 9 the Archbishop of Mel-
bourne opened the school’s new sports-
pavilion. It is called Annandale.
• •
J. W. Jordan’s brisk and detailed
account of managing a sheep-station in
The Bulletin’s wool-issue indicated a
crisp and orderly mind —and that was the
impression the author gave when he was
in Sydney for the ram-sales, and dropped
in at 252 George-street. A farmer’s son,
born and schooled at Bendigo, he went on
to Duntroon and then to World War I
as a lieutenant with the 14th Bn. There
followed nine years’ farming at Barellan
MERINOS
(N.S.W.), mainly wheat, with a sidelong
look at sheep. Then business in Mel-
bourne —mainly indenting—with a small
property outside the city, and still further
interest in sheep. Next, World War II
and G. 5.0.11 at A.H.Q. in Melbourne;
then C.O. of No. 7 Infantry Training
Centre at Wilson’s Promontory, which
turned out eight Independent Companies
—Commandos in other words—for the
Islands. Later Jordan was detached to
work for the Board of Business Admini-
stration for the Services and managed a
course in woolclassing in his spare time.
Then, in 1948, he went to manage Auch-
more, the 17,500-acre Merino property on
the dry plains north of Bendigo. The
Army probably put the spring in his step
and the ramrod in his back; but Rules,
Rugby, lacrosse and a lot of running at
Duntroon may also have had something
to do with it.
When Dr. U. W. E. Radok joined
H.M.A.S. Melbourne as the aircraft-
carrier was passing through the Suez
Canal, the 0.0. W, sent him round to the
S.M.O.’s cabin, thinking he was the local
medico boarding the ship for clearance
purposes. But he’s a Ph.D. (Melb.) and
authority on the upper air. Every day he
was busy with balloons and thermometers
and such, flitting from apparatus to
apparatus, taking readings of seawater
temperatures and heights of balloons —
one of which was tracked for two-and-
a-half hours —and intriguing, particularly,
the radar troops, who enjoyed his visit
and the specialist knowledge he passed
on.
Dr. Radok first appeared on the Aus-
tralian target some 15 years ago, and
for the past 12 years has been associated
with Dr. Loewe at Melbourne Uni-
versity’s Meteorology Department. Trips
on- ocean-going craft come under the
heading of field-work. Earlier, he went
to Willis Island in H.M.A.S. Condamine,
BALLOONS
coming back to Australia in H.M.A.S.
Anzac after spending some time on the
island investigating temperatures in the
Coral Sea. To collect data from
Antarctica he joined the French expedi-
tion aboard the Norwegian ship Totten :
the latest jaunt will further his study of
the Indian Ocean, and a paper on “the
heat-energy of the air over the ocean”
will appear in due course.
A lean, alert and friendly bloke, he
served in the Australian Army as a
private during War 11, and before that
studied meteorology in Germany after a
Munich engineering-degree.
• •
Jack Mortby must have raised the
hair of the more stately members of
the Federal public service, but he raised
the dough, too —more than £2128 million
was subscribed to Commonwealth loans
while he was deputy-director of loan-
raisings in Victoria. He retired the other
day. His stunts during the war were
often undignified, but effective, and
included stork-derby contests; bond-
auctions ; service - displays ; concert -
parties; street-rallies, with top jockeys
on draughthorses; pyrotechnics; a
Papuan band ; and even a poster over
Chloe, the oil-painting in Young and
Jackson’s Hotel —“Gone to Buy Victory
Bonds.” National quiz-championships
were also a feature in loan-raisings (why
ever was such an informative and amusing
gimmick in bond-selling campaigns
allowed to die out?). Mortby has, he
says, put his money into bonds.
• •
Walter Fitzmaurice Burfitt, K.C.S.S.,
8.A., B.Sc., M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.A.S.,
who passed on at 82 in the private wing
of the Sydney hospital (Lewisham) to
which he had given 39 years of honorary
service, was an eminent surgeon and a
fine citizen. Born at Dubbo (N.S.W.),
of Somerset stock, he studied at Sydney
University and won the University Medal
for Medicine in 1900. He was early
associated with Royal Prince Alfred, St.
Vincent’s and the Royal Alexandra Hos-
pital for Children, and before he went to
Macquarie-street, where a later genera-
tion of doctors and patients knew him,
he practised for many years at Glebe
Point.
At his Elizabeth Bay home, a few
months before his death, he told writer
that the happiest years of his life had
been those spent “among the poor
people”—which would seem to take in
both his honorary work and early private
practice. He was very ill then, and had
been ill a long time; conversation was
difficult for him. Yet the impression that
came through was of a fundamentally
simple, sincere man, with a wide
tolerance.
He was one of the prime movers in the
establishment of almoner services, was at
one time president of the Medical Benevo-
lent Association, and had close ties
with St. John’s College (Sydney Uni-
versity) and the Medical Guild of St.
Luke. But he supported many scientific
and philanthropic movements in his
time, far too many to be here catalogued.
The Walter Burfitt Scholarship in Science,
established in 1925, and the Walter Burfitt
Prize for scientific research will keep
his memory green at Sydney University
and through the Royal Society.
• •
Passing through Sydney and happy to
see old friends after 10 years, 17st. jovial
Norwegian Captain Finn Block officered
in the R.A.N. during War II in H.M.A.S.
Orara and Koompartoo, and commanded
H.M.A.S. Karangi for three years.
Demobbed in 1946, he returned to Nor-
way. On this visit he is commanding
modern 9000-ton cargo-boat M.V.
Skauvann. Equipped with all the latest
gadgets—radar, gyro-steering, etc. —she’s
full of lumber and newsprint from
British Columbia for Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide, and will return to Europe
full of barley. The skipper comes from
seafaring stock; his granddad was a
windjammer man.
• •
“Judee”: Solicitors at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) have paid unusual tribute to the
memory of one of their number who died
last year. He was H. L. L. O’Neill, first
president of Newcastle Law Society, and
his portrait has been hung in the city’s
main courtroom. N.S.W. Chief Justice
Sir Kenneth Street, who was at the unveil-
ing, said only photographs of judges and
barristers were hung in courtrooms; the
fact that O’Neill, a solicitor, had been
so honored showed the respect in which
he had been held.
• •
Not every politician has landscape
named .after him during his lifetime.
New P.M.G. Charles William Davidson,
0.8. E., can claim that distinction,
although Davidson Ridge and Charlie
Hill in war-time New Guinea were not
named by grateful constituents.
A Queenslander, bom in Brisbane and
educated at Townsville Grammar,
Davidson was in France with the old
42nd Bn. and in New Guinea with the
2/42nd, this time a lieutenant-colonel;
last year he became honorary colonel of
the current 42nd Bn.
A few years of cow-cockying after
War I, then he switched to sugarcane
(he’s held various offices in the Queens-
land Cane Growers’ Association). He was
elected to the House of Representatives,
for Capricornia, in 1946, was returned
for Dawson in 1949, and has continued
since then to represent the area (Mackay
down to North Bundaberg, but excluding
Rockhampton). Country-party Whip
and deputy Government Whip from 1950
till he took-over as Postmaster-General,
he was a member of the joint committee
on the broadcasting of Parliamentary
proceedings and chairman of the Air
MAIL
Beef panel. When he’s travelling his
suitcase rather catches the eye-
aluminium, from material of a Jap air-
craft.
To reveal a trade-secret, it is customary
when distinguished visitors are to call at
The Bulletin to look them up before-
hand in Who’s Who —it creates such a
good impression to appear to know all
about them. But of all the entries none
LITERATURE
is so reticent, so trimmed to scholarly
precision as that of Professor Milgate,
which says no more than:
MILGATE, Wesley, M.A., Challis Pro-
fessor of English Literature Univ. of Syd.
since 1951; address, Univ. of Syd.
One is almost tempted to leave the pro-
fessor in this beautiful anonymity; but
perhaps it should be added that, under
intense pressure, he admitted that he was
born (“That was important— to me”):
at Leura (N.S.W.). It was the movement
to raise £BO,OOO for the Chair of Aus-
tralian Literature that lured Professor
Milgate from his sandstone tower —he
is chairman of the executive committee —
and on the subject he has written a most
informative article for The Bulletin.
• •
Sighted in Fremantle with German
wife, Esthonian Baron Fersen, whose title
dates back to 1212. Stripped of his large
estates during two World Wars and the
present Communist occupation, he has
been earning a crust as a heavy-haulage
truck-driver in Western Germany. Now
under contract to the Commonwealth
Government, he will put in two years as
a factory-worker. His wife’s great-
grandfather on the paternal side, named
Marshall, emigrated from Scotland to
Hobart in 1830. Her mother, a Mel-
bourne-born daughter of an Englishman
who migrated to Australia in 1854,
married a German professor, who visited
Australia in 1910. With their tljree
daughters these distinguished New
Aussies will join a 19-year-old son, who
came to Australia 12 months ago.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 70, Stanley Armstrong Staton,
until 1946 manager of the R.S.L. Trading
Department in Sydney, where, on Anzac Day,
an 18-gallon keg was always on tap. An Albury
(N.S.W.) boy, he was one of the founders of the
Newcastle Surf Club, and in 1909 was awarded
the Royal Society’s bronze medal for rescuing,
without reel, a drowning man. In World War I
he served in the A.S.C. and with the Tunnellers.
He was a foundation-member of the Legacy
Club, for which he did great work. After 1946
he conducted two art-unions for Furlough
House, Narrabeen, which raised £13,000.
At Devonport (Tas.), at 67, Capt. Andrew
Joseph Burgess, one of five brothers who, with
their father, pioneered the crayfishing of Bass
Strait. While based at King Island, A.J. was
for a time Master Warden of the Marine Board
there. During the war he did naval-patrol
work.
In Sydney, in his 92nd year, E. A. Holden,
chairman of Meggitt, Ltd., and a director of
Wunderlich, Ltd.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 73, John Annesley
Brailsford, who started newspaper work on the
old “New Zealand Times,” changed to the
“Evening Post,” then went to San Francisco and
later China, where he edited the “Central
China Post.” He later became interested in
the Workers’ Educational Association, and
lectured in New Zealand and Tasmania. His
last job was Director of Adult Education in
Southland.
In Sydney, at 70, Albert Ernest Rudder,
founder of the big transportation company,
and until his retirement three years ago chair-
man of Tasman-Empire Airways and a vice-
chairman of Qantas.
In London, at 62, Cecil Skitch, captain-
manager of a private team of South Australian
club-cricketers now touring England. In 1954
he broke new ground by organising and leading
to England a team of S.A. country cricketers
who played nearly 70 games against village-green
clubs. That tour was so successful that Skitcn
arranged this year’s visit.
At Auckland (N.Z.), Percy Allen Eaddy,
one-time mariner, who called on his expen-
ences for such good-sellers as Hulls Down,
’Neath Swaying Spars and Sails Beneath the
Southern Cross. English-born, he reached
Auckland as an infant in the barque Clyde.


*//
JjOP MpCH vo you Think. //
' TH&y ; K& WORTH ?
" r/
[V SAy A'SOG'C „
fiV6 VoQrtPS*
yw &&OOT S/*- POOH&S -T&sl y PfA'R, ?
¥JGHT/ i'u* t blu you i ajh/kt — *
you cam iMAv£ th£ lot fofZ
TtiPjOß Poun,V£ OuT Of TH£f
HooseK.eSPiH& HONpy I
v * ,^1
IN THE CHIPS


ABORIGINALITIES
A SPEAKER at the Science Academy
symposium at Brisbane stirred
Queensland’s outback to anger when he
claimed that third-generation Queens-
landers in the arid western area had
shown a marked physical and mental
deterioration. Dr. Vickers, Flying Doctor
Service medical superintendent, who
spent 24 years in the west, replied that the
casual walk of the westerner, his lean
build, and his habit of leaning against
posts, were signs of adaptation to climatic
conditions and means of conserving
energy. Another retorted that the
westerner actually had more initiative and
was in better physical shape than the city
dweller. Personally, I’ve never noticed
any mental or physical weaklings in my
trips out west. —“Sparks.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: In a hurry, the babbler
whacked the big cabbage in the boiler
holus-bolus, and the fat yellow centi-
pede hidden in a leaf-fold was done to a
lobster-tan. “Ah, well, give it a bit of a
tang,” said cooky, as he discarded the
interloper at dishing-up time. The guests
saw naught; their hearts grieved not;
they ate the cabbage even with relish.
* * * *
“Apemantus”: Among the modern
structural materials there’s wood —that
messmate stringybark Eucalyptus obliqua
stuff. The new drive-in cinema at
Wodonga (Vic.) has a screen 84ft. wide
by 38ft. high. It’s built of hard-board
on timber frames, supported by six 65ft.
clear wooden poles buttressed with
shorter lengths. Locally-available wood
gives a cleaner design than braced steel
and costs 15 per cent. less.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Am not normally partial to
sparrows, but when boys brought me a
juvenile that had strayed from its parents
I decided to feed it until it gained suffi-
cient strength to fend for itself. When
its power of flight was well developed
the youngster escaped and flew into a
near-by casuarina, from where it set up a
loud chirping. Immediately from a patch
of gums about 200yds. away came a
currawong, heading straight for the
casuarina. He flushed the young bird,
which was quickly gathered-up in the
sombre assassin’s claws. Was upset to
see my young spadger foully murdered,
but interested to note how instantan-
eously the predator recognised some
intonation in the youngster’s voice
that told him it was unprotected.
Currawongs round my way destroy
a lot of young birds, but they
aren’t notably courageous, and singly
will never attack a baby whose parents
are near at hand. There must be a lot
of information contained in birds’ voices
if only one knew how to interpret them.
“P.P.M.”: Parts-per-million! Experts
talk about them to primary producers,
but what are they? An Australian three-
pence weighs almost 22 grains, and that
much evenly distributed throughout
28cwt. of soil would be 1 p.p.m.; so
would, say, one pint of milk in 125,000
Imperial gallons of water. With gold,
weighed by troy-weight, a rich “ounce to
the ton” means a fraction over 30 p.p.m.
Either too many or two few p.p.m. of
trace-elements can break the primary pro-
ducer, so for the man used to thinking of
super, or blood-and-bone by the hundred-
weight it’s risky to play about with these
tiny p.p.m. of cobalt, manganese, boron,
molybdenum, copper or zinc unless with
expert advice.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Knew a central-west N.S.W.
cocky who didn’t let the breaking of
the fan-belt on his ancient T-model Ford
incommode him, though he had no spare
and he was 20 miles from a garage. He
shot an old-man kangaroo, then in pest-
numbers, and cut an unbroken ring of
hide-and-hair from around its chest and
back. This he stretched until he could
slip it over the fan and driving-pulley.
It was in constant use for the next 15,000
miles, and never let him down. As it
dried it twisted like a rope and became
very tough.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: The kid's latest pet is a
white Angora rabbit. I’m no authority
on the breed, but I’m led to assume that
not for hundreds of years have these
pampered rodents had to get their own
living—and take precautions against
natural enemies. Safe behind his wire-
netting, Snowball shows no fear at all of
sniffing dogs or the fummy that comes
prowling around with evil intent. It
would seem that all of a rabbit’s instinc-
tive fears had been completely bred out
in the countless generations of safe living.
Then one day a plane flew over.
Immediately that bunny flew into a
panic, terror in every action, climaxed
with a side-throbbing huddle into the
smallest possible ball in a comer of the
run!
* * * *
“Jas.”: Active, amiable and very
sociable, babblers are great home-
builders. Actually, their building-
instinct is not entirely related to their
breeding-instinct, as it is with nearly
all birds —their distinctive domiciles may
be constructed at any time of the year.
The buildings—which are roofed, and
have a spoutlike entrance —are used for
shelter, and some, I suspect, never
become nurseries at all. It’s amusing to
see a bunch of babblers in conference.
Heads pressed close together, tails fanned
to fullest extent, beaks busily prospecting
some imaginary object in their midst,
they will chatter to each other at a terrific
rate. Home-lovers, a group will establish
themselves in a small area of open
forest or scrub, and there, unless dis-
turbed, they will be seen for many years.
Three members in this family, all very
alike in their ways.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The termite, which
harbors protozoa in its intestines and
employs them to digest cellulose, is
regarded as something of a marvel; but
the cow, which employs somewhat similar
organisms harbored in the rumen, or
paunch, must be considered equally
astute. Over the ages it has developed
a remarkably complex stomach. The
roughly-chewed food is passed into the
first stomach (the rumen), where it’s
partly fermented by the action of the
bacteria; then it’s returned to the
mouth, chewed thoroughly and swallowed
for the second time, being excluded from
the rumen by valves which close the
entrance. It goes to the second, third
“I sometimes despair of ever training that animal to Waitz
really gracefully."
and fourth stomachs, each of which gives
it the full treatment; but probably the
most important action of all is that of
the bacteria in the rumen. They break-
down the fibres and “digest” the cellulose
in much the same way as the termite’s
protozoa do. There’s one catch. The
bacteria have certain vital needs, one of
which is cobalt. They don’t need much
—one part in every 10 million parts of
dry-matter satisfies them —but they must
have it or they’ll cease to function
properly and their owners perish. W.A.
farmers found that out when their cattle
and sheep were wasting away, while
horses and rabbits on the same pastures
were thriving. A lot of ruminants were
lost before the solution was found in a
very light topdressing with cobalt.
“Four Threes”: Bricky’s unofficial
assistance to local storekeepers in helping
to unload goods from the train to their
vehicles was one way of satisfying his
perpetual appetite. After one such
errand he only just made the footplate a
moment before the loco.-inspector
stepped on. The L. 1., being in a generous
mood, picked up the banjo and fired a
round of coal, but Bricky was unim-
pressed. There followed immediately an
aroma of freshly-baked plum-pudding,
and the L.l.’s jovial remarks that some-
one had something good cooking behind
the injector* steam-pipe only made Bricky
all the more sullen. When the inspector
departed Crusty chided his mate for being
so unsociable. Bricky swore disgustedly,
“I had two lovely bunches of sultanas
hidden under the coal on that fire-
shovel,” he said. “Why couldn’t the
interferin’ mind ’is own business?”
m * * *
“Wulworra”: Dirk Hartog certainly
is not, as claimed by “Jon Lyn” (B.
23/5/’56), “the most forgotten man in
Australian history”; that dubious hono«
belongs to another early Dutchman,
William Jansz. Although the first white
man to touch these shores (in 1606),
Jansz does not rank a single memorial;
he should, of course, be commemorated
both in the Gulf-country and at Canberra.
By way of mild experiment, “Jon,” ask
half-a-dozen of your acquaintances who
was the first white man to see Australia.
I’ll wager that most will nominate Har-
tog (if they don’t go for Cook), and that
Jansz won’t get a single vote.
IN MEMORY OF AN ELEPHANT
[Alice, obit, 29th April, 1956.]
We knew her from our schooldays when the
circus came to town,
Shuttling through the busy Main-street, dust
coated, leaden-brown,
The monkeys wide-eyed chattering, the sullen
bears a-frown,
The lions restless pacing as she hauled the
cages down.
Wrinkled wise old Alice, regnant o’er the picket
line,
Her body ever swaying, her beady eyes ashine,
Her trunk curled so seductive where the raptured
children press
With titbits shyly proffered and a timid swift
caress.
And to the brisk march-music ’neath the flood-
lights’ amber glow,
She led the marshalled troupers in the opening
of the show,
A gorgeous grand Old Lady in her gold-and-
azure gown,
The doyen of the company, a trouper of
renown.
She flitters through our dreaming with the
Dummy and the Clown,
And the spangled fairy lady with the gleaming
silver crown,
The tumblers and the jugglers and the droll
baboons that cling
To glossy circus-horses trotting smartly round
the ring.
She has played her Grand Finale at a century
or so,
Found the frondent lush-green jungles where
good elephants all go;
But where’er the circus pitches, her wrinkled
swaying Shade
Will muster with Wirth’s troupers at the
Opening Parade.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.
HORSE ACT
r pHE boss’s favorite pony was put to
convalesce from a staked foot in a
fenced-off portion of the garden.
At daylight he put his head in the
kitchen-window and got some bread from
the cook. Then he leaned as far as
possible through the window towards
the breadbox and breathed gustily down
the cook’s neck. During toastmaking
at breakfast he drooled non-stop.
He obviously revelled in the family
greetings, and when other topics began
to be discussed he successfully attracted
attention again by grabbing the wash-up
dish and trying to pull it through the
window, then lifting the dipper from its
nail, after which he rested his head on
the window-sill and sighed noisily.
Just then the two cats walked in the
door. The tabby, catching sight of the
pony, sat down in the doorway to con-
sider the phenomenon, but the black
cat, without looking up, stalked through
and lay down on the mat in front of the
fire.
The family went on with breakfast.
When the pony twisted his head round
to see what was in the oven the black cat
looked up sharply, and saw the appari-
tion framed in the window. With a noise
like half-a-dozen soda-water bottles going
off he leapt for the doorway, eyes wild
and tail like a bottlebrush. But his paws
wouldn’t grip on the polished lino., so
that, while, still travelling f full-speed, he
remained in the same place. When at
last his claws came down for a grip he
left the room at something near super-
sonic speed, bowling the tabby over in
the doorway as he went.
The pony looked mildly surprised, then
amused himself by nipping at our elbows
as we did the washing-up —at least till
we put the window down. Working out
the problem of something you could
feel and yet see through kept him quiet
for quite a while. The cat didn’t turn-up
again till later in the day, when, whiskers
still a-tremble, he crept out from under
the tankstand.
J.B


)rn convinced
mm
is better tobacco
CAPSTAN,
bitter hbaccb
Waiting for the 8.10 gives me just those
few minutes to enjoy my first smoke of the
day and that’s when I really appreciate
Capstan Tobacco. The
fine, mild Virginia leaf
used in Capstan’s own
blend gives it a flavour
and fragrance you,
too, will appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for
CAPSTAN.
CAPSTAN
FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
339D.10.55
88 ;
YOUR 8.0.A.C. TRAVEL AGENT
HAS ALL THE ANSWERS
It costs no more for your Travel
Agent’s advice and services in planning
world travel that’s really care-free.
He’ll gladly tell you about currency,
visas, passports, customs, “what to
wear” and a hundred other matters.
This help can often save you trouble,
and may save you money. Your
8.0.A.C. Travel Agent will make all
your bookings, arrange hotel reserva-
tions, even get a car to meet you on
the other side of the world.
Book from Australia by 8.0.A.C.
world-wide first-class “Majestic” Ser-
vices or low-fare tourist-class
“Coronet” Services to any of 51
countries linking all six continents.
Alt over the world
Bum
takes good care of you
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A
A6O/AUa
THE reason why Les Such (B.
16/5/’56) hadn’t heard of the deadly
taipan during his time in Queensland is
that the snake used to be known simply
as the “giant brown.” Then some
scientists compared one of these big,
truculent customers with the taipan of
New Guinea and found they were identi-
cal. The New Guinea native name was
therefore given to the similar species
found in Australia, and “giant brown”
was transferred to its first cousin, the
mulga-snake of the north of S.A. —
“Archaen.”
* * * *
“Renraw”: Taking advantage of the
wet-season, nephew sent irrigation-plant
engine away for overhaul. Sauntering
about the waterlogged cultivation, he
found retired stokehold-hand Sam in a
lather of sweat, frantically operating the
hand-pump over the well, “What are you
doing?” asked nephew. “Gawd,”
replied Sam breathlessly, without missing
a stroke, “I just found it in time. You’ve
sprung a leak, and your bilges are
flooded, but I’m holding it now. It
hasn’t gained any in the past two hours.
Better give me a hand though, I’m just
about all in.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: “Jas.” should have
included the introduced English starling
in his list of mimics among birds (B.
30/5/’56). Few realise just how good
old Jack Starling is because his voice
isn’t loud; keen hearing is needed to
detect it when, say, he’s perched on top
of a tree or telephone-pole. I once slept
in an upstairs room at Port Lincoln
(S.A.), and just outside a starling used
to go through his repertoire. Standing
behind the curtain, only 2ft. from the
bird, I heard the following: Lawnmower,
circular-saw, carking of seagulls, ducks
quacking, turkeys gobbling, a rooster
crowing and calling up the hens, and a
puppy whimpering. The bird always ran
through the items in the same order.
* * * *
“V. de V.”: Canley Vale is certainly
deseiving of that oak-plaque in memory
of Sir Henry Parkes, whose property
adjoined the railway-station there. When
the house was destroyed by fire Parkes
built a colonial-style bungalow about two
miles' away, facing the Liverpool-road,
with some acres fronting the winding
Prospect Creek immediately after it
flows under the Lansdowne Bridge.
Wherever he went he left a heritage of
trees —God bless him! —and bordering
this property a row of magnificent pines
gave joy to tree-lovers as they rounded
Tillet’s Hill and crossed the bridge. But
the property was leased to market?
gardeners, and the trees died. The
house remains, and a large shed of split-
wood slabs still stands.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: That fly-wire door propped
ajar to let the cats through (B. 18/5 /’56)
had a counterpart on a station I visited.
It was always kept closed “to keep the
flies out” ; but down at feline-level was
a square hole neatly cut in the gauze so
that Tom could take his ease near the
stove when he felt inclined.
• * * *
“Red Gold”: I’d like a bob for every
red-cedar tree I saw as a kid on the Ather-
ton Tableland and in the scrubs of North
Queensland. About 40 or 50 years ago
you could find cedar-trees in the coastal
scrubs all the way from Ulladulla, south
of Sydney, to Atherton (N.Q.), but now-
adays only the less-accessible scrubs
shelter them. I’ve seen some of these
great trees run up to 150 ft., with a stem-
diameter of over 6ft. In semi-tropical
scrubs the stem is buttressed at the base
and the bark is scaly, grey or brown in
color, and is shed in oblong pieces. The
bark has an outer red layer and an inner
whitish layer. The heartwood, highly
figured when cut to show the growth-
rings to advantage, has a fragrant smell
and is rich red in color.
* * * *
“Kerba”: The big meat-truck hit a
bump in the road, the back doors flew
open and a 44-gallon-drum rolled out,
“The quartermaster didn't have my size , sir."
spilling its contents. The driver backed,
got out and loaded the drum on again.
Gathering the scattered livers was a
bigger job—there were hundreds of ’em.
Obviously a stickler for the niceties, the
driver picked the livers up in pairs,
slapped ’em together to remove any germs
acquired from their contact with the road,
and restored them to the drum. In the
midst of these labors a helpful soul
sauntered over with a shiny, new-looking
shovel. “This’ll make it easier for you,”
he suggested. The driver looked shocked.
“Aw, break it down, mate,” he remon-
strated. “That wouldn’t be hygienic.”
* * * #
“Quo Vadis”: Encourage the birds to
your garden with this simply-made
drinker. Invert a metal electric-light
reflector over a suitable length of fin.-
pipe and lock in place with backing-nuts.
Extend the pipe and similarly lock-on a
larger reflector or circle of galvanised-
iron to provide shade. Plug the top open-
ing. Sink standard firmly in ground and
paint all green. Fill bowl per hose as
required. Clamp a feed-tin to the pipe
under the shade if you wish. You’ll have
a lot of avian visitors in any case.
SURF-SKIER AT CALOUNDRA
Surf-ski sailorman—shallow water mariner
On a sleek sliver of oiled plywood,
Battling dark atom in an indigo cauldron
Challenging the liquid mountain’s every mood.
Sunkissed venturer, wearing trunks and sea-
Crouch, balance to catch the combei s
To wrest’the thrill of a long descent
From a watery Everest.
Landho, sailorman! Beach your craft and cany
Ud the warm beach where the surfers lie.
Spread your bronze limbs on the smooth sand
pallet
And gather your forces for another try. _
QUEENSLAND.
BETTY BELL.


Latest continental motoring achievement...
MERCEDES-BENZ no
again ahead of its time
111
Mercedes-Benz have always been pioneers on the path
of technical progress and once again experts everywhere
are admiring the exquisite finish and the superb per-
formance of this car a car of advanced, design,
reliability and long life with the timeless beauty,
unmatched driving comfort and solid construction of
every Mercedes-Benz.
a
m
1
m
m
r
Type 220. 6-cyiinder 92 h.p. at 4800 r.p.m.
MERNA MOTORS
PTY. LIMITED
59 William St., Sydney. FA9398
A new shipment of the Mercedes-Benz
220 has just arrived and orders can now
be accepted for immediate delivery.
Confidential terms arranged through Alliance Acceptance Co. Limited.
JV.S. W. Distributors of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks and Mash cars
MM. 13.40
Business, Robbery, Etc.
June Is Bustin’ Out
RETIREMENT by the Federal
Treasury of £lOO million of
Treasury-bills in two months
(£6O million in April, £4O million
in May) is indicative of the way
in which income-tax has been
extracted from the public’s
pockets during the past three
months. During May income-
tax collections were £BB million,
and, if estimates are realised, the
figure for June will be £99
million.
Obviously, to the extent that
taxation is used to retire
Treasury-bills, money is taken
from the pockets of the public
and not further circulated.
In this way an over-inflationary
condition that developed earlier
in the financial year tends to be
corrected ; but it is also having
a present effect on the share-
market, which at the same time
has to absorb the shocks of
developments like the cut in
Robert Harper’s div., the passing
of other divs., all those other set-
backs seen during the past month
or two, and the rise in interest-
rates as well.
But, in the fell clutch of
economic and political circum-
stance, the sharemarket is taking
a fairly unbloodied view of the
changing financial situation. A
great old sorting-process is going
on throughout all industry, and,
even in some depressed in-
dustries, aggressive and efficient
management is producing higher
profits and, in some cases, even
paying higher dividends. Patons
and Baldwins and Kelvinator
were pleasant surprises.
Though prices of industrial
shares are now well below the
opening levels of this year, and
down about 15 p.c. on last year’s
“high,” they have declined to
their present levels rather than
fallen. Readjustment has been
steady and unspectacular, but
quite definite. Ljist week it was
still going on.
The national wool-cheque,
shearers’ strike notwithstanding,
has panned-out well, all things
considered. Only a small per-
centage of the record clip so far
has failed to reach the selling-
brokers, and in May the price
perked-up appreciably. It
appears that the clip will average
about 62d. a pound for the
season, against 72d. in the pre-
ceding year, and that the cheque
will be about £2O million down.
In a little over a month’s
time, June 30 balance-sheets will
be bustin’ out all over us. There
will be many interesting stories
to tell.
To Pastures New?
T/OLUME of rural production
* this year will be a record in
many sections, and the total
increase is expected to be more
than six per cent, over the
previous record set last year,
although prices and markets
continue to present some disturb-
ing factors. The surge of pro-
ductivity is attributable! to
development and farm-improve-
ments in recent years, as well as
to the succession of good seasons
(which won’t last for ever) and
the effects of myxomatosis.
More records may be broken,
according to the official
estimates, in 1956-57, although
the wheat-acreage, at least, will
depend on the judgment of
growers and their leaders con-
cerning the world outlook. The
short-range picture, in spite of
general high production, is not
too cheerful. The gross value of
rural production this year is
estimated by the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics at £lll6
million, which is about the same
as last year, but at a time when
lower prices abroad are being
accompanied by rising costs at
home.
Secretary of the Department
of Trade J. V. Moroney
warned a conference of pro-
ducers in Sydney the other day
that, as a result, a further decline
in farmers’ net cash-incomes
seemed likely, with values of
exports down by about 4 p.c.,
despite the rise in volume —a
rise absorbed to some extent, of
course, by the expanding home
population. U.S. surpluses are
still gravely affecting markets,
and are likely to continue to do
so.
But the long-range outlook is
still good for producers with
courage and faith —and capital.
Moroney pointed out that
the Australian economy as
a whole was expanding,
that the population of the
world was growing rapidly (a
fact which doesn’t cause
unalloyed joy to other segments
of Australian thought), and that
a great potential existed in Aus-
tralia for increased production
to meet these growing domestic
and world demands. He went
on to talk about water-conserva-
tion, pasture-improvement, and
the vital role of the agricultural
field-officers and extension
workers. The prime factors in
maintaining our export markets
were quality, price, regular avail-
ability, and fair competition.
Moroney admitted that he had
not the answer to the question
so often asked by producers,
“How can we regulate our costs
when we require for production
purposes many essential items,
including labor, the costs of
which are outside our control
and continually rising?” He
suggested, not too helpfully, that
the problem was a challenge to
the best brains in the country in
Government and industry. But
he saw no cause for gloom if
the remarkable opportunities of
the next half-century were
realised and a real effort made
to take advantage of them.
Fags Galore!
PHILLIPS Hold-
” ings, Ltd., which controls
the manufacture of a variety of
English-brand cigarettes made in
Australia for many years past,
struck keen competition in its
“Wed better stop—remember what Mr. Menzies
said about inflation.”
term to December 31. Sales of
tobacco and cigarettes declined,
Philip Morris, Rothmans and
others have set-up in Australia,
and Godfrey Phillips’ chairman
mentions a “substantial increase
in output from the co.’s main
competitor”—presumably British
Tobacco (Australia), Ltd.
Competition certainly has
stirred the Wills-Carreras group
to greater activity. Ardath,
Craven A and Capstan cigarettes
are now much more readily
available.
Last sale of Philip Morris £1
ords. was made at 15s. Roth-
mans’ £1 ords. are down to
under 13s. British Tobacco
ords. are subdued at around
31s. The entire industry has yet
to experience the full effects of
the new taxes on tobacco and
cigarettes.
McPherson’s Issue
T>AR issue of 740,000 £1 shares
-*■ by McPherson’s, Ltd.,
manufacturer and distributor of
tools, nuts, bolts, pumps and
other engineer’s supplies, will be
in the ratio of one for every five
shares held on September 14.
In October last year the co.
issued 693,000 shares (one for
four) also at par. Paid capital
will now be around £4£ million,
compared with £1,303,186 in
1950. Expansion of the business
has outrun the board’s anticipa-
tions recently, calling for
repeated revisions of the capital-
outlay programme. Less than
two years ago it was suggested
that capital-outlay during the
succeeding two or three years
would only amount to half-a-
million pounds or so.
Up to the present, earning-
power has been well maintained
on increased capital. There has
been a setback in some types of
construction activity, and the
demand for tools (both hand
and machine) in Australia as a
whole has tended to decline.
Manufacture of pumps has also
been affected. But McPherson’s
has a progressive management
and is strongly financed.
At 455. 6d., cum rights, the
ords. offer a yield of 6 p.c. (on
the present \2\ p.c. div. basis)
to the buyer who takes up his
rights.
Company Reports
/COMMENTING on published
accounts of Australian
public companies, selected in
co-operation with the Stock
Exchanges, the Sydney division
of the Australian Institute of
Management notes that the
majority of reports selected had
vertical balance-sheets, although
in some cases cos. which had
used vertical balance-sheets in
the past had reverted to the
two-sided type. In most cases,
where a layman’s balance-sheet
was provided, it was of the two-
sided variety.
The institute has stressed
from the beginning that annual
reports in form and presentation
should be tailored to suit the
co. that issues them, and
that there isn’t necessarily any
right or wrong method.
It isn’t unusual now to find
assets appearing on the left of a
two-sided balance-sheet —which
a few years ago would have
brought forth cries of horror. In
the case of vertical balance-
sheets, in some cases liabilities
appear first; in others share-
holders’ funds ; and, in others,
assets; and the internal treat-
ment from the top down varies
from report to report.
The grouping of debtors and
cash and also of creditors and
taxation and other provisions is
considered undesirable because
( Continued, on next page)


Oj>r
I!!2£IA»EL is
aspi
I* I ?®** ©SgjiKjJ
if!* .ThS-Old Bletvd
|aniiii| 6 iiil ?? WKisk-y
gHB&ISSmo o/ tke rr
(EJLIAR
OTigiMl Recipe
174 G
742
ED l |VllnVs to Til* fro*
StsJ r !5J # CH *. 10M00N or any
JJ&rto tie *wu,i! s rtr »»4 J«t tie*
©viSBURGH M iT E JW* CELLAR
’3 a sArt Zi'Q * llct ttey ®«y k*
f»V P *lliAY CpACH-.cvtry Mow PAY
at kpl i*n '.f X“| £:ps viol? jouroey
Jfef; v&L tum '» Joj
hiAfcvi t !:"' s ¥" » m** *"!«
P««* ser
RS LTD.
M»r »»d Glwlwif lit rut
*•* 10*00*
•'niii la
cconAHf
*u» | tui| men
gggL.Lt.rTr.yjViT.T: 1
R 35
V ■ -
WHITE HORSE
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
5*
m
m
14
w&
m
# *'"• • .;’
* f&JtiS
Bank accounts
for everyone!
A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts and A.N.Z. Savings
Accounts provide complete banking service.
The progressive, stream-lined policy of A.N.Z, Bank now enables
you to enjoy the advantages of both types of banking service under
the one roof. You can have a Savings Account which will return
interest from the money deposited ... a cheque account to help
you budget more effectively and save time, money and bother when
settling household bills, etc. . . .. or you can enjoy the convenience
of both accounts. Furthermore, the latest mechanised systems used
by A.N.Z. Bank enable deposits, withdrawals and other business
transactions to be effected rapidly and simply.
A.N.Z. Bank, one of the largest financial institutions in the
Commonwealth, has a world-wide organisation offering a
complete banking service anywhere in Australia or when
travelling or sending money overseas.
A*N*Z
I***l
W
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 850 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London. Agents
throughout the world.
such a grouping precludes an
accurate assessment of the co.’s
activities and potential and true
state of affairs at balance-date.
A very wide variation in
description of stock-valuations
was found —e.g., “At or below
cost” ; “Lower cost or market” ;
“Cost or valuation, whichever
the lower” ; “Lower of cost or
replacement” ; “At cost or sell-
ing-price” ; and others.
In view of the importance of
stocks in the ascertainment of
profits, it is surprising, the
institute rightly remarks, to see
such a wide variance in the
methods of valuation adopted.
In a few cases the stock-value
was shown with a reserve or
provision shown separately.
However, in the majority of
cases reserves or provisions, if
they existed, weren’t shown
separately.
Of all the reports included in
the “merit-list,” only one does
not show the tax-provision, and
willingness to disclose it is
becoming more widely practised.
Generally speaking, in most
cases more could be done to
clarify this provision.
There are very few cos. now
which don’t automatically give
comparison with the previous
year’s results. A growing
number of companies give
figures for five or more years.
Very few cos. showed the
accumulated depreciation pro-
visions in the balance-sheet. The
need to do so has been high-
lighted in recent years because
of “takeover bids.” Unless the
accumulated provisions are
shown it is difficult to gauge
whether the provisions are
adequate, deficient or excessive.
All reports in the “merit-list”
disclosed their turnover, as also
did approximately 50 p.c. of
reports selected by the Stock
Exchanges. The American view
is that without disclosure of
turnover there is no yardstick
with which to measure the effec-
tiveness of management-
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
PREVAILING financial con-
ditions are bearing hard
upon the managements of
building-societies. The resigna-
tion of Mr. Bentley,
general-manager of “the Hali-
fax,” has given implied publicity
to the perplexity and conflict of
views in the board-rooms. For
Bentley is also chairman of the
Building Societies’ Association.
A situation has developed, he
states, which “makes it impos-
sible for me to serve the board.”
A reasonable conjecture is that
the two duties are irreconcilable,
largely because the directors of
the Halifax have a reputation
for making their own decisions,
particularly on the rates of
interest which they pay and
charge.
Certainly the present state of
affairs is anything but satisfac-
tory, whether for mortgagee,
mortgagor or for the general
good of the nation. The societies
are so short of money that their
quotas are filled for several
months. One of them is now
charging different rates of
interest for different terms, vary-
ing between 5| p.c. for 15 years
and 6| p.c. for 35 years, on the
argument that the risk is higher
on a longer-term mortgage.
Before the “squeeze” and the
upward turn of the bank-rate,
the rate for mortgages was 4\ p.c.
and for share deposits 2 \ p.c.
(with the Halifax one-half per
cent, or so lower). Now the
normal lending-rate is. 5£ p.c.
It may yet move higher. The
governing factor is the extensive
amount of money that has been
withdrawn from share accounts
—the heaviest, according to Mr.
Bentley, for 20 years.
Not many years ago investors
(public companies as well as
individuals) found 2\ p.c. tax-
free a proposition that was
attractive as well as safe. Then
the “equity” boom made them
think seriously about capital-
appreciation. And now the
severity of the “squeeze” has
caused still heavier withdrawals.
So, altogether, the building-
societies’ problems are consider-
able. Dear money is a trading
handicap. Frequent adjustments
to the rate of interest aggravate
their clerical work. They are
having to turn good business
away. And, unless the interest-
rate on shares (now 3| p.c.) can
be increased by at least another
half per cent, so as to attract
deposits, they may have to draw
on their reserves.
There is a touch of sadness in
the conclusion that these worthy
bodies, promoting thrift on two
fronts, should themselves become
the temporary victims of infla-
tion.
Poor But Honest
A reprehensible ignorance of
the source of “Gigi” (New
Theatre) belies adequate critical
assessment. How, for better or
for worse, Anita Loos has
adapted Colette’s novel (or play,
perhaps?) must go unrecorded.
In terms of the theatre, how-
ever, it is a first-cousin of “The
Mask of Virtue” (1935) where
Vivien Leigh, playing a sweet
young virgin, caused the most
sensational first-act curtain ever
witnessed, by ogling the nasty
old roue to whom she was in
course of being sold.
The essential difference is that
15-year-old Gigi is quite inno-
cent, treats her intended pro-
tector as a cousin (their grand-
parents were lovers) and has
just become overwhelmed by a
schoolgirl “crush” on him. He
is wealthy, personable and, as a
young man of fashion in the
Paris of 1900, in constant trouble
with successive mistresses.
Gigi’s relations are entirely
female, for the cogent reason
that the family tradition
apparently rules out marriage,
even as the last resort. It is taken
for granted that Gigi will con-
form. The problem is to groom
her in deportment and feminine
resource. Mother is scatter-
brained and Granny too easy-
going, so Great-aunt, an astute
wisehead whose opulence owes
nothing to orthodox commerce,
takes command.
She does not get far with the
hoydenish girl but manages the
young man with persuasive
assurance. As she is on the
point of coming to terms —
exceptionally generous ones, too
—Gigi unaccountably walks out
in a huff. Just as Nora Helmer
slammed the door on conven-
tional marriage she slams
it on conventional con-
cubinage. Result, quite unfore-
seen by all —she gets her man.
The play itself makes no
impact. But the acting oppor-
tunities are good and well-taken.
Tony Britton’s “Tonton” is
stylish and eminently
crush-worthy. Estelle Win-
wood’s woman-of-business is a
subtle portrait, rich in con-
temporary satire. And Leslie
Caron is entirely consistent as
the gauche, spindly adolescent.
With better material she could
be immensely touching.
Psychiatric Fratricide
Hugh Mills’s “The House by
the Lake” (Duke of York’s
Theatre) is an unusual thriller,
if only because of its heavy and
theatrically indigestible content.
The murderer is a once-famous
psychiatrist, struck off ten years
before as a result of a financial
scandal. The victim is his half-
brother, as black a villain as ever
stamped over transpontine
boards. (Not only did he plunge
the psychiatrist into disgrace,
but even now holds the master-
strings of chicanery and, to cap
everything, maltreats his wife.)
The third, and principal, party
is the murderer’s wife, some-
time a manic-depressive and
“favorite” patient.
The climax is at once clinical
and harrowing. For, having
discovered that the wife suspects
his guilt and is on the side of
justice, he hypnotises her into
her former depressive state and
leaves her compulsively telling
the seconds, pistol at ear, while
he engages in small-talk next-
door. Of course, as we knew
it would, a timely intervention
breaks the fell intent, if not the
trance. And it is no surprise
that the detective, so blithe,
solicitous and fairylike in his
appearances, has worked every-
thing out so neatly.
The sombre overtones of this
play induce some compelling
dramatic tension, notably when
the murderer’s carelessness
reveals his guilt. This critical
juncture also promotes Flora
Robson, previously less than
convincing as a helpless, cling-
ing wife, to the status which is
quite her own. An excellent
company supports.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
II
n
m
»
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTOR
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: IS. L. Shatc
Assistant Manager: F. JR. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IOO.tS
THE WILD CAL
COUMN
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.
TTIRE-PURCHASE finance is a rather
less contentious issue in current Aus-
tralian economics than it was a few
months ago. A higher bond-rate has
strengthened the Federal Government’s
position in the loan-market, and over
the opening months of 1956, notwith-
standing that an increasingly-stringent
banking-policy has favored the hire-
purchase financier, there was a falling-
off in demand for consumer-credit. This
follows a rapid climb which carried the
amount of outstanding instalment-debt
from approximately £B5 million in
March, 1953, to nearly £207 million at
December 31 last. Estimated outstand-
ings on March 31 (which are subject to
revision) were something under £206
million. Among the finance-companies,
too, more intense competition has been
apparent lately in the form of extra
inducements offered both to prospective
lenders and borrowers.
A levelling-off in the expansion of
credit was to be expected, and the
tendency has probably been accelerated
by the undertaking given to the Govern-
ment by h.-p. cos. last year on the
matters of minimum deposits and the
duration of contracts.
Ind' strial Acceptance Corporation is the
chief operating-subsidiary of the I.A.H.
group and Australia’s biggest hire-
purchase co., financing the instalment-
buying of agricultural and industrial
equipment, motor - vehicles, furniture,
refrigerators and other household goods.
Ajax Insurance Co., Ltd., and its sub-
sidiary, Surrey Insurance Co., Ltd., handle
the insurance on vehicles financed by
1.A.C., and, as well, undertake general
insurance business.
Following the passing of control to
Industrial Acceptance Holdings in 1954,
transfer of shares in I.A.C. to the new co.
was completed last year, and shareholders
were offered another 4,000,000 ss. ords.,
one for five, at a premium of 2s. 6d.,
which raised capital to £7,000,000 in
£6,000,000 of ords. and £1,000,000 of
6 p.c. pref. scrip.
Including £2,597,000 (up £481,000)
earned insurance-premiums, the group’s
trading profit in 1955 was up £1,447,431
to £7,099,739. After deducting all
operating-expenses, insurance-claims paid
and depreciation, and providing
£1,222,897 (up £341,755) for taxation, net
profit (£1,882,831) improved £252,894:
Industrial Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.
, Dividends —, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948. .215,598 121= 125,000 90,598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/off, £10,921 .. 397,065
1949. .270,823 5 144,271 126,552 523,617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
1950. .396,161 5 12J = 165,625 230,536 879,153
Share premiums, £400,000 .. ..1,279,153
1951. .481,450 5 12.9 = 218.750 262,700 1,541,853
To contingencies res., £57,490 .. 1,599,343
1952. .762,690 5 15 := 250,000 51g,690 2,112,033
Tax overprovided, £15,381 .. ' ..2,127,414
Added contingencies res., £ll5O ..2,128,564
1953 1,142,013 5 18J = 350,000 792,013 2,920,577
' Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.*
Tax underprovided, £19,559 .. .. 2,725,381
From contingency reserve, £200,000 2,925,381
Preliminary exp. written-off £56,812.. 2,868,569
1954 1,629,937 6 f 644,167 985,770 3,854,339
Tax overprovided, £54,674 .. ..3,909,013
From profit-suspense, £12,982 .. 3,921,995
Share-issue expenses, £42,393 .. 3,879,602
Share-premiums, £500,000 .. ..4,379,602
Res. I.A.C. capitalised, £3,000,000.. 1,379,602
Share-premiums 1.A.C., £500,000 ..1,879,602
1955 1,882,831 6 16J = 976,667 906,164 2,785,766
* Reserves subject to excess of cost over par-value
of. shares in subsidiary companies, £501,920 at
31/12/’55. flo p.c. prior to formation of holding
co. and 8& p.c. afterwards.
Extensive use in the last few years of
mortgage-debentures in financing opera-
tions has helped to hoist the return on
ord. capital up to 33.1 p.c. in 1955 from
26.7 p.c. the year before (after allowing
for the pref. divs.), although increased
interest-rates are making it a costlier
form of borrowing. Under full-employ-
ment, too, bad-debts have been a com-
paratively light charge on earnings.
An additional £1,483,150 of first-mort-
gage debenture-stock was issued during
1955. At year’s end short-term debs.
(12 months and qnder) amounted to
£7,091,800 and long-term stock to
£6,207,300, which was supplemented by
unsecured deposits £6,253,025 (up
£57,925), new capital and sundry
creditors. Amounts due and to mature
under h.-p. contracts, plus sundry debtors,
less unstated provision for losses, stood
at £39,516,893, a rise of £4,887,784:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £965,850 £1,000,000
Ord 4,878,596 6,000,000
1.A.0. shares .. .. 82,664
Reserves 3,854,339 2,785,766
Sub-subsidiaries .. .. 605,000 357,000
H.-p. income to mature.. 5,116,950 5,804,400
Debentures, etc 18,064,200 19,547,350
Creditors, etc. .. .. 1,415,629 2,360,322
Unexpired insurance risks 1,701,379 2,529,180
Staff fund .. .. 93,443 116,389
Tax provision .. .. 1,162,082 1,363,611
Final dividends .. .. 431,667 630,000
£38,371,799 £42,394,018
Freeholds 115,720 178,074
Office equipment .. .. 97,044 112,428
Investments .. .. 122,970 166,328
H.-p. contracts .. .. 34,629,109 39,516,893
Cash, prepayments .. 477,926 1,918,376
Intangibles .. .. 2,929,030 501,920
£38,371,799 £42,394,018
The change in the intangibles item
(down £2,427,110), representing the excess
of cost over par-value of shares in sub-
sidiary companies, is explained by the
bonus share-issue made by I.A.C. to the
holding co., by capitalising £3,000,000 of
its reserves; and by the subsequent issue
to I.A.H. of 4,000,000 of the subsidiary’s
ss. shares at a 50 p.c. premium.
An internal reorganisation of finances,
this did not affect the cover provided by
net tangible assets for the holding-co.’s
capital, equal to 7s. 4d. for each ss. ord.
on December 31. On ’Change the shares
fetch 9s. 7d., to return 8.7 p.c. on the
16f p.c. div. The £1 prefs., which are
backed by £9 15s. Bd. net tangibles a
share, have not been traded on Sydney
’Change this year.
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.
VISAGES -CHARGES began to bear
’ ’ particularly heavily on retailers in
New South Wales towards the end of last
year. In addition to the reintroduction
in November of quarterly basic-wage
adjustments, employers also had to meet
the extra cost of the State’s penalty-rate
for Saturday-morning work. The new
loading added another 10s. to the wage of
adult males and 7s. 6d. to that of females.
According to Anthony Hordern’s
chairman, the extra payout which these
items involved his company amounted to
about £130,000, which, together with the
heavier company income-tax, more than
accounted for the drop in the year’s
earnings. These charges will be felt to
the full this term.
On a record turnover (the momentum
of which tended to decrease in the second
half of the term) the co.’s net profit,
after writing-off £55,000 (up £10,000) to
depreciation and making an undisclosed
provision for taxation, was £66,890
below the £300,570 earned in 1955:
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb.. Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary, serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’50..125,374 45,000 6 = 75,000 5,374 272,272
’51..131,547 45,000 6 = 75,000 11,547 283,819
: 52..127,286 45,000 6 = 75,000 7,286 291,105
’53..125,030 45,000 6 = 75,000 6,030 296,135
7£ p.c.
’54..211,549 56,250 8 = 100,000 55,299 351,434
To alterations reserve, £50,000 .. 301,434
Asset-revaluation reserve, £2,675,519.. 2,976,953
From depreciation (£500,000) and
alteration (£100,000) reserves, and
sundry provisions ( £375,000) .. 3,951,953
’55..300,570 56,250 10 = 125,000 119,320 4,071,273
’56..233,680 56,250 10 = 125,000 52,430 4,123,703
On ordinary capital, after allowing
£56,250 for the prefs., the £233,680 was
equal to a return of 14.2 p.c., compared
with 19.5 p.c. in 1955, 12.4 p.c. 1954, 6.2
p.c. 1953, 6.3 p.c. 1952 and 6.5 p.c. in
1951. The only change of importance
in the presentation of accounts, an
amount of £219,813 transferred to a pro-
vision for reconditioning and replacing
property and plant, following revalua-
tion of the co.’s fixed assets in 1955,
was returned to depreciation-provision
last term. Shareholders again received
10 p.c., the rate which the co. first paid
in 1955, following a 2 p.c.-lift, to 8 p.c.,
in the preceding year.
Further improvements were made to
the Palace Emporium in 1956, and other
changes, involving re-location of the
restaurant and opening-up new selling-
space, are being made at present. Over
the last few years the co. has carried
out extensive modernisation of the old
Brickfield Hill store, whose 15 acres or
more of floor-space carry as great a range
of merchandise as there is to be found
in any retail-store in Australia. There
has also been something of a revival of
shoppers’ interest in its part of Sydney
which has contributed to the growth of
the co.’s turnover.
Stocks at £2,632,244 are £426,944
heavier, which is explained mainly by the
higher cost of local goods, “anticipated
import-restrictions” and the stocking of
the soon-to-be-opened Canberra branch.
A long-term lease of property has been
obtained in an “attractive location” in the
national capital. A faster growth is
revealed in debtors’ balances, up £247,376
to £1,865,216:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £750,000 £760,000 £750,000
Ord 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves .. .. 301,434 4,071,274 4,123,705
Depreciation, etc... 774,813 219,813 274,813
Mortgages . . 620,000 894,298 1,772,925
Creditors, etc. .. 1,243,568 1,332,226 1,137,020
Tax provision . . 196,236 282,225 274,878
Final divs. .. 96,250 90,625 90,625
£5,232,301 £8,890,461 £9,673,966
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . . . 1,547,675 3,947,400 3,975,093
Plant, etc 647,665 1,003,580 1,073,202
Stocks .. .. 1,834,061 2,205,300 2,632,244
Debtors .. .. 1,154,358 1,617,840 1,865,216
Cash, etc 48,542 116,341 128,211
£5,232,301 £8,890,461 £9,673,966
To finance its expanding operations the
co. had the use of an additional £878,627
of loan-money, secured on its leasehold
and freehold properties. Borrowing of
another £500,000 has been arranged for
the current term. Including the mort-
gage-debt in calculating working-capital,
the surplus of more-or-less liquids on
balancing-date was £10,116 stronger at
£1,350,223.
Take-over fever on ’Change sent the
price of the £1 ords. up to 455. 3d. in
1955. Current level is about 295. for a
yield of 6.9 p.c. on the 10 p.c. div.
At 21s. the 1\ p.c. prefs. return 7.1 p.c.
Net tangible asset cover is just under
86s. for the ords. and £8 3s. 3d. for the
prefs.
Western Stores, Ltd.
A NUMBER of equally-familiar names
among country storekeepers in
N.S.W. have been added to the business
since the Western Stores, Ltd., joined
with Edgley and Co. in 1928 to form the
Western Stores and Edgleys, Ltd.; so
the shorter corporate-name adopted in
May this year, in addition to its con-
venience, is probably better descriptive,
in a general sense, of the present extent
of the organisation.
Headquartered in Dubbo, the parent
co. has branch-stores in eight other towns
in the prosperous inland rural areas of
the State. Operations were extended to
Tam worth in 1951, when a controlling-
interest was acquired in P. G. Smith and
Co. This company was made a fully-
owned subsidiary, and the retail business
of Regans (also of Tamworth) taken over
in 1954. In the same year the co. bought
the Orange business of builders, hard-
ware- and timber-merchants, James
Douglas and Co., and, last term, for a
consideration which included 36,750
Western Stores ord.-shares, it acquired the
issued capital of Squire Pepper Pty., of
Cowra.
Acquisition of these well-established
businesses as going concerns and the dis-
posal of small uneconomic branches has
kept earning-power at a healthy level,
despite rising costs and, in respect of
part of the 1956 term, heavier taxation.
Last year, after eliminating minority
shareholders’ interests and providing
£26,622 (up £4363) for depreciation and,
in the group accounts, an unspecified
amount for taxation, consolidated earn-
ings were up £17,983:
Parent 00.
Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 92,430 10,500 ISip.c. = 48,125 33,805 274,224
Assets revalued, £148,200 .. .. 417,424
Reserves capitalised, £143,200 .. 274,224
1951.. 206 10,500 15 p.c. - 64,440 51,266 325,490
Parent and Subsidiary.t
1952.. 154 10,500 15 p.c. = 75,180 72,474 408,493
1953.. 160.349 10,500 15 „ ~ 75,180 74,669 483,167
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 613,167
Parent and Subsidiaries.)-
1954.. 200.322 10,500 15 p.c. = 84,600 105,222 618,389
Assets revalued, £282,000 .. .. 900,389
Reserves capitalised, £282,000 .. 618,389
1956.. 281 10,500 18i|p.c.=103,306 105,475 723,864
Share premiums, £64,312 .. .. 788,176
1956.. 287.264 10,500 124p.c.:=124,692 1 02,07 2 890,248
* Subject to'intangibles, £63,359 at 29/2/’56.
f After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The £237,264 profit covered the pref. div.
and was equal to a return of 22.7 p.c.
on ordinary capital as against 27.8 p.c.
in 1955 and 33.7 p.c., 29.9 p.c., 29.4 p.c.
and 26.9 p.c. back to 1951. As a one-
for-two bonus issue was made to ord.-
shareholders in November, 1954 (follow-
ing a similar issue, two for five, in 1951),
the lower return is actually better than it
seems. To help preserve liquidity, how-
ever, the co. dropped the div.-rate (down
from 15 p.c. in 1954) another 1| p.c.,
to 12| p.c. Average distribution for the
last five years has been a little over 14 p.c.
Including £64,312 share-premiums,
raised apparently in connection with the
scrip issued to Squire Pepper share-
holders, another £166,384 was added to
reserves, which stood at £890,248 in
February last, subject to £63,359 (up
£18,375) intangibles.
Reflecting Western Stores’ increased
turnover, stocks were up £112,558. (to
£992,323) and another £79,751 (£525,418)
debtors carried. According to the chair-
man, substantial reserves exist against
both these assets. Another £151,835 was
added to freehold, leasehold and plant
accounts. Bank-overdraft (up £168,599)
supplied most of the finance for these
additions not put up by the co. itself:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 564,000 976,100 1,012,850
Reserves .. .. 618,389 723,864 890.248
Outside interests.. 25,000 26,250 25,000
Overdraft .. .. 192,966 142,429 311,028
Creditors . . .. 147,884 149,635 167,653
Tax provision .. 241,593 246,371 229,972
Final divs. .. 47,550 66,256 68,553
£2,012,382 £2,505,905 £2,880,304
Freeholds, leaseholds 582,754 907,890 1,000,541
Plant, fittings, etc. 158,967 189,689 248,873
Shares . . .. 14,286 15,422 16,830
Stock .. .. 815,307 879,765 992,323
Debtors .. .. 372,843 445,667 525,418
Cash .. .. 32,056 22,488 32,960
Goodwill, etc. .. 36,169 44,984 63,359
£2,012,382 £2,505,905 £2,880,304
Since the current year opened a new
issue of 122,570 £1 shares (including
3460 employee shares) has been made to
provide additional working-capital.
At present the £1 ords. are available
at 375. (50s. 3d. a year ago) to return
6.8 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. The 6 p.c. prefs.
don’t appear on ’Change very often. The
last sale was recorded in 1955 at around
par. Net tangible asset backing for the
prefs. is £ll 10s. 3d. and for the ords.
365. 4d.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Missing Friend
ANYONE knowing HAROLD SUGDEN,
son of H. F. SUGDEN, believed formerly of
Shipley, Yorkshire, England. Last heard
of 1937 in Australia. Please advise the
undersigned for his advantage.—NICHOL-
SON VERSCIIUER & NICHOLSON, Soli-
citors, Perth, Western Australia.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Tangalooma Minerals, Ltd.
THOSE two affluent concerns,
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., and
Whale Industries, Ltd., are hop-
ing to make themselves more
affluent still by jointly working
titanium-mineral leases on More-
ton Island (Q.), at present con-
trolled by Whale Industries, Ltd.
Presumably Zircon Rutile will
contribute most of the know-how
and a good ■ deal of the cash
required. The new operating co.,
Tangalooma Minerals, Ltd., has
been registered in Melbourne
with a nominal capital of only
£2OOO.
Westland Oil
McLELLAND, J., in the
N.S.W. Equity Court, last
week made an order for the
winding-up of Westland Oil,
Ltd., which was formed
in 1954 t o prospect for
oil in the Westland area, s.-w.
of Longreach (Q.). In August,
1954, the Petroleum Drilling
Corporation, Ltd. (“Santa Fe”),
had estimated the probable cost
of drilling at £190,000. Drilling
proved more expensive than
that, and' Westland, under con-
tract, paid £312,150 to the
P.D.C., which claimed £46,649 as
still owing.
Judge McLelland said that
various disputes had arisen over
the contract, and these matters
had been settled by arbitration;
the position was now that
£29,000 was owing to the P.D.C.
Westland originally issued
5,000,000 2s. shares, and P.D.C.
speedily drilled three holes for
it under direction, all to below
5000 ft., but all in the wrong
places so far as commercial oil
was concerned. Westland co.
appears to have been too hasty in
its selection of drilling-sites, but
shallow basement-rock and other
factors have always been against
the likelihood of striking oil in
Queensland anyway.
Promoter R. H. W. Moles-
worth early came into holts with
some other members of the
board, and, from one cause and
another, the co.’s affairs became
rather a mess. Judge McLelland,
in making a wind-up order on
P.D.C.’s petition, expressed his
sympathy for Westland share-
holders and those directors who
had been endeavoring to get
something out of the mess for
them.
Uranium Development
PROSPECTING and develop-
ment on the South Alligator
River (N.T.) area of Uranium
Development and Prospecting,
N.L., have shown a 3in. seam of
pitchblende in No. 2 adit
between 81ft. and 88ft. and high-
grade mineralisation over a
much greater length.
Questions of finance and the
future development of the area
have been problems. An ap-
proach was recently made on
behalf of Metals Exploration,
N.L., for the purchase of the
South Alligator authority-to-
prospect, and an offer has been
received, and accepted by
U.D.P., subject to shareholders’
approval. Australian Uranium
Corporation, N.L., holds a one-
third interest in the U.D.P. area.
Broad details of the proposed
agreement are as follows:
(a) Payment of £50,000 in cash in
reimbursement of mining expenditure
incurred on the area to date and in
purchase of all plant, buildings and
stores.
(£») Allotment of 600,000 f.-p.
shares in the new co. to the
face-value of £150,000.
(c) The new co. undertakes to issue
at least 1,200,000 ss. contribs. It is
intended that shareholders of U.D.P.
will be offered two new shares for
each five now held, and shareholders
of Australian Uranium Corporation,
N.L., one new share for each five
held.
Metals Exploration, N.L., will
arrange the underwriting of the
complete contributing-share issue
though Eric R. Jeffery, of
Melbourne ’Change. A parcel of
vendors’ shares, not to exceed
£5OOO in face-value, may be
allocated to Metals Exploration,
N.L., for its services. Metals
Exploration, N.L., is to be
offered the right to subscribe up
to £40,000 in the initial issue.
The cash-consideration is con-
sidered by the U.D.P. board to
be an adequate reimbursement of
expenditure on plant and
development on the area. This
will enable the company to
inspect and explore further areas
of interest, while the vendors’
shares will retain for both cos.
substantial interest in the South
Alligator area.
Already U.D.P. has taken an
option over 300 acres of rutile-
bearing country eight miles from
Mungana (Q.). A rutile lode, as
well as alluvial, is reported to
exist.
Tin and Strategic Minerals
TIN and Strategic Minerals,
Ltd. (W.A.), has been
informed by British Metals Cor-
poration that the co.’s first
parcels of tantalite concentrates
have now been shipped to Fan-
steel (U.S.A.). Other parcels will
be shipped progressively as mag-
netic separation and upgrading
are effected.
Delay in disposing of these
concentrates, which has brought
the co. financial difficulty, has
been due to the necessity of
separating the contained im-
purities. This has presented a
problem in upgrading which has
now been solved by Sydney
Smelting Co.
Arrangements have been com-
pleted for the disposal of con-
centrates produced during the
remainder of 1956, while the co.
is considering purchase-contracts
to cover similar concentrates
produced during 1957.
Lack of capital caused by past
realisation delays has in turn
meant the introduction of
weekly “clean-ups,” with conse-
quent increase in costs and an
estimated one-third reduction in
throughput. However, consider-
able progress has been made.
Concentrate - recovery has
been as follows:
Bth Jan.—Bth Feb., 13.5 tons.
9th Feb.—Bth Mar., 11.6 tons.
9th Mar. —Bth Apr., 12.7 tons.
9th Apr.—Bth May, 11.4 tons.
Recovery is now being in-
creased. Western Queen’s
plant and mining tenements
(about 500 acres) were bought
in March and dredging opera-
tions went on for four weeks
until water-shortage stopped
work. Plans are in hand for
the building of a large dam
in Westralia Gully to provide
water in the Western Queen area,
but it won’t be possible to under-
take this work in time to store
this winter’s rain.
With the acquisition of
Western Queen’s property, the
co. now controls the major
portion of the Greenbushes
mineral field, and more compre-
hensive development can now be
undertaken.
C.S.R. CO’S ANNUAL REPORT
SALES OF NEW
PRODUCTS INCREASE
Sales of C.S.R. building materials and chemicals in-
creased by 25 per cent, in the year ended 31st March,
1956, the chairman of directors of the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Limited, Sir Edward Knox, told
shareholders in his annual report.
He said sales increases were:
• Building materials up 25%.
• Chemicals up 25%.
• Sugars and syrups in Australia and New
Zealand up 3%.
AUSTRALIAN RAW
SUGAR PRODUCTION
Production of raw
sugar in Australia (from
all mills including
C.S.R.’s) in the 1955
season was 1,135,000
tons.
Australian Production
Tons Raw Sugar
1952 916,600
1953 1,213,000
1954 1,285,000
1955 1,135,000
1956 1,180,000
(estimated)
The output from the
Company’s seven Austra-
lian mills was 231,000
tons, 24,000 tons less
than the record of
255,000 tons in 1954.
Our New South Wales
mills produced 10,000
tons more and our
Queensland mills 34,000
tons less than in 1954.
FIJI
Our five mills in Fiji
produced 163,100 tons of
raw sugar in 1955, the
second highest yearly out-
put so far, but still short
of the available market
of 185,000 tons.
REFINED SUGAR IN
AUSTRALIA
Sales of sugars and
syrups from our five Aus-
tralian refineries were
492,000 tons for the year
ended 31st March, 1956,
an increase of 3% over
the previous year.
Expansion of the re-
fineries and the addition
of improvements to in-
crease efficiency are con-
tinuing at about the same
rate of expenditure as
previously, viz., £1 mil-
lion per annum, and
many important items of
plant were commissioned
during the year.
AUSTRALIAN SUGAR
PRICE INCREASE
The Australian raw
sugar industry millers
and growers recently
made a detailed examina-
tion of the increase in its
cost of production since
1952 when the last in-
crease in the selling price
of sugar for consumption
in Australia was approved
by the Commonwealth
Government. This exami-
nation resulted in the
submission, through the
Queensland Government,
of a case to the Federal
Government for a rise in
the wholesale price of re- (
fined sugar in Australia.
The case prepared by the
industry was investigated
by Commonwealth Gov-
ernment officials. Subse-
quently, the Government
approved of a new whole-
sale price of £82.15.0d.
per ton for standard
granulated of 1A grade—
other grades are priced
according to quality and
packing by reference to
this 1A price. The new
price operated from 14th
May. The corresponding
retail price for 1A is lOd.
per lb., an increase of Id.
The Company is part
of the raw sugar industry
which consists of some
9,000 independent cane
growers and 34 raw
sugar mills. We own
seven of these mills but
do not grow cane com-
mercially in Australia.
Under a contract with
the Queensland Govern-
ment, we are refiners and
merchandisers of most of
the sugar consumed in
Australia and we are the
commercial marketing or-
ganisation for export raw
sugar. Under this con-
tract, we credit the whole
of the proceeds resulting
from the increased price
of refined sugar to the
Queensland Sugar Board
for the benefit of millers
and growers. None of the
proceeds from this price
increase is retained by
the Company as refiners
and sellers of the sugar
but, in respect of our
seven mills, we benefit
as members of the raw
sugar industry, in the
same way as the 27 other
raw sugar mills.
NEW ZEALAND
Sales of sugar products
from our Auckland Re-
finery were 99,000 tons,
an increase over the pre-
vious year of 3.4%.
BUILDING MATERIALS
DIVISION
Sales of building pro-
ducts for the year ended
March, 1956, were 25%
above those for the pre-
ceding year.
During the year 1955,
our subsidiary, Australian
Blue Asbestos Limited,
sold 7,980 tons of blue
asbestos, of which 3,482
tons went to the U.S.-A.
This subsidiary has fur-
ther expanded its markets
in U.S.A. and Europe, and
for next year has prospects
of selling overseas about
12,000 tons of asbestos
fibre from Wittenoom,
worth about £1,200,000.
Continuing markets for
at least this quantity .an-
nually are reasonably
secure and the mine can
produce this without
much additional capital
expenditure. Having re-
gard to the difficulties of
establishing and the de-
sirability of maintaining
an industry in the isola-
ted North-West and to
the value of blue asbes-
tos as an earner of export
income and as a strategic
material, the Common-
wealth and Western Aus-
tralian Governments have
each granted a subsidy
for the year ending 30th
September, 1956, of £5
per ton, with a maximum
of £30,000 in each case.
C.S.R. CHEMICALS
PTY. LTD.
Sales of chemicals
made at both Lane Cove
and Rhodes factories
showed a 25% increase
over the previous year.
The higher demand was
general, covering practi-
cally all products.
Amenities supervisor, Mr. E. Thatcher, and Yarraville refinery manager, Mr.
A. G. Stokes, inspect the canteen kitchen for the employees' dining room.
C.S.R. SHAREHOLDINGS
by country of residence as at May, 1954.
* OTHER
COUNTRIES
1.9%
Analysis by Residence
S h areholders
resident in
foreign coun-
tries . . . . .1%
S h areholders
resident in
Fiji, the United
Kingdom and
British coun-
tries other than
Australia and
New Zealand 1.8%
S h areholders
resident in
New Zealand 20.9%
Shareholders
resident in
Australia . . 77.2%
100.0%
An analysis of C.S.R. share-
holdings at May, 1954,
showed the above distribu-
tion of holdings by country
of residence of the holder.
Holdings were registered in
the names of 10,724 indivi-
dual persons and 1,747 joint
or trust accounts.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
In the presence of the Governor and
Lady Brooks the Australian Drama Com-
pany’s second season opened at the
Comedy Theatre with “Twelfth Night.”
Hugh Hunt (director of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust) was producer and Elaine
Haxton designed the sets.
The vice-regal party was received by
Sir John Latham (president of the trust)
and Lady Latham. Lady Brooks wore a
lovely full-skirted gown of gold-and-white
cloque-brocade, with the cuffs of the
bodice embroidered with gold beads, and
a white Arctic-fox stole. Lady Latham’s
gown, of cinnamon-brown cobweb-lace
over matching satin, had green beading
on the bodice; her wrap was a dyed-
ermine cape.
Mrs. Rylah, wife of the Acting-Premier,
chose a gaily-patterned pure-silk gown,
which had a full, graceful skirt. The
lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) wore a
midnight-blue iridescent-silk-taffeta gown,
which featured a pleated-skirt. Her
daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, chose a
Ming-blue satin theatre-coat. Others in
the audience were Mrs. F. H. Wright and
her daughter Mrs. Ronald Marriott, Mrs.
Rupert Downes and her daughter Mrs.
Jim Campbell, Gertrude Johnson (of the
National Theatre), Irene Mitchell (of the
Little Theatre), Mrs. W. Lempriere, Mrs.
Eric Rogers, Mrs. Massey Burnside, Lady
Murdoch, Mr. and Mrs. John Casson, and
Mr. and Mrs. Terry Vaughan.
Now appearing as Maria in “Twelfth
Night,” Zoe Caldwell was educated at
the Methodist Ladies' College, joined the
Little Theatre and later the Union Reper-
tory Company. The Elizabethan Theatre
Trust gave her the opportunity to appear
with Judith Anderson in “Medea.” Now
Zoe has a permanent place in the Aus-
tralian Drama Company, which is part of
the Elizabethan Trust. Last year she
won the Melbourne drama critics’ award.
Photo by David Muir.
To farewell Netherlands Consulate
Chancellor D. H. Visscher and Mrs.
Visscher, who are returning to Holland
on leave before Mr. Visscher takes up
his new appointment in Baghdad, and
to welcome the new Chancellor (Mr.
H. A. G. Schillings) and his wife,
Netherlands Consul G. J. Veling gave a
cocktail-party at his Toorak home. Until
they can find a home Mr. and Mrs.
Schillings, who came from Rangoon, are
staying at Chevron. Among the guests
at the farewelling party were Captain and
bfndc NawAtSw Drabbe (Nether-
Kintl N^T,ftK L T\l nd . MTS - S'
Mrf’R W w r,',.™ ' ,‘„ h ? ev -' , an l
™if r* (aLersen . a . nd „,^ ssisa | l j
Mrs d vvi^nn'S lOnCr Wlsewould
and Mrs. Wlsewould.
* * ft
. . . .
An unusual invitation, in the form of
a colored map, has been issued by
members of the Gordon Group for a
progressive-dinner to be held on June 30.
First spot on the map is Finhaven Court,
Kew, where cocktails will be served and
hosts and hostesses will be Mr. and Mrs.
B. O’Sullivan, Mr. and Mrs. William
Banks and Mr. and Mrs. Gherardin.
Following the map, guests will then navi-
gate towards Torrington-place, Canter-
bury, where they will be served with the
first course—in charge there will be
Beverley Ball, Clemence Game, Margaret
Campbell and Anne Grover. Thence back
to another spot in Kew, where Judith
McMillan, Mary-Lou Doggitt and Anne
Dawborn will be waiting to serve the
main course. Finally, coffee and liqueurs
will be taken at Glen-road, Toorak, and
here John Kaye, Felicity Nuttall, Mrs.
Brian Loton and Joyce Anson will bow
them in.
☆ ☆ *
The visiting Irish women’s hockey-
team were guests-of-honor at a recep-
tion at the Celtic Club. Hosts included
Messrs. O’Connor, Marr, Maguire and
Frank De Neefe.
A chat with a past-presid'ent of the
club, Mr. M. A. Gardiner, was interest-
ing ; in it he disclosed that the club has
founded a scholarship, open to members
of the History or Languages staff of any
Australian university, which entitles the
winner to three years in Ireland to study
Irish culture. Among those at the recep-
tion were Mary McKeown (a delegate
from Belfast to the International Hockey
Conference), Lillian Moran (captain of
the Irish team), and Dr. Anita Docherty,
of Dublin, one of the players. Two
other members of the team, Moira Con-
roy and Stephanie O’Reilly, danced an
Irish jig.
* * ☆
A cheque for £2OOO, profits from the
Voluntary Helpers’ Shop in Camberwell,
was presented to the Rev. C. T. F. Goy,
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, to
assist the Donald Cameron Homes for the
Aged. This venture has in the past
two years raised £16,000 to provide help
for old people, irrespective of religion.
The shop at Camberwell is run by a small
group of workers, and funds are raised
by the sale of donated goods. A steady
profit comes from rags sorted from the
piles of material sent to the shop. All
the five organisations which in rotation
receive the profits care for aged people:
the Brotherhood of St. Laurence (Angli-
can) ; Caritas Christi Hospice (Catholic);
Overton Homes (Methodist); Donald
Cameron Homes (Presbyterian); and the
Montefiore Home (Jewish). Anyone
interested in furthering this good work
might contact 'W81717, and arrange-
ments will be made to collect any
offerings.
☆ ☆ YV
When Barbara Helen, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. L. C. Webb, of
Toorak, was married at St. John’s, Too-
rak, she wore a white Swiss-embroidered
organza gown which featured a bodice
with a bateau-neckline and dropped-
waistline. Her blue-and-white tulle veil
was caught with a cap, and she carried
lily-of-the-valley. Her bridesmaid, Pat-
ricia Carlisle, wore "a short white
delustred-satin frock, and in her hair
a diamente-studded band. Flower-girl
Joanne Webb was dressed in white tulle,
and wore a band of white hyacinths in
her hair. Both attendants carried white
hyacinths. The bridegroom, John
Joseph, is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
D. G. Mack, of Templestowe. His best
man was Bruce Stevens.
* ☆ ☆
Betty, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Hardwicke, of Moonee Ponds, has
announced her engagement to David
Reginald, only son of Mrs. E. Browning,
of St. George’s Terrace, Perth. Betty
has represented Victoria at softball for
five years and played for Australia against
New Zealand in 1951. David is centre-
man with the Brighton football-team.
* V #
Artistic cardboard replicas of the Eiffel
Tower were set on every table at the
Moulin Rouge, St. Kilda, for the dinner-
dance organised by the Lady Forster
Free Kindergarten Junior Auxiliary. The
towers were tied with black-satin ribbon
and finished with a large red geranium.
Other decorations were in the red-black-
and-white theme, including poinsettias
with twigs and driftwood painted black
and white. Guests-of-honor were the
acting-president of the senior auxiliary,
Mrs. Colin Mackay, and her husband, and
Mr. and Mrs. Harold John. Mrs.
Mackay chose a gown of deep-grey satin,
and Mrs. John turquoise-blue satin.
They were received by Pamela Middle-
ton (president of the junior auxiliary),
who wore a short frock of navy tulle ;
and by Mrs. Peter Maclellan, who chose
a short black Chantilly-lace frock.
Among the dancers were Dr. and Mrs.
Kenneth Huybers (one of the ticket-sec-
retaries), Mr. and Mrs. R. Gadsden, Mr.
and Mrs. Dick Doyle (her short white
guipure-lace frock worn under a tur-
quoise-blue velvet coat trimmed with
mink), Mr. and Mrs. W. Banks, Dr. and
Mrs. Donald Hosack, Lois Smith (attrac-
tive in white tulle and guipure-lace), and
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Gardiner.
SYDNEY
The Services were rather to the fore
in entertaining and public functions
this week. On Friday night the R.A.A.F.
Home Command Ball was held at Glen-
brook, with A.O.C. Air-Vice-Marshal
Walters and Mrs. Walters as host and
hostess. The commander and officers
of H.M.A.S. Arunta entertained about
140 guests at a “paying-off” party aboard
the ship, and at Victoria Barracks 400
dancers attended the annual Gunner Ball
given by the officers of the Royal Aus-
tralian Artillery.
The Gunner Ball always looks bright.
Perhaps it is because of the mess-dress
that the officers wear —navy-blue with a
red stripe and sometimes the most dash-
ing-looking little red waistcoat. This
year five generals in scarlet jackets added
to the splendor, and the elaborate decora-
tions included a huge illuminated crown,
a silk-embroidered wall-tapestry of the
Royal Cipher, and the signal-cannon
from the original Orsova.
Lt.-Colonel A. Mair (with his moustache
and cigar-cutter, but without his cane!)
received the guests with Mrs. Mair (she
looking elegant in a full-length coat of
dark-red taffeta over a black dress).
Guests-of-honor were Lt.-General E.
W. Woodward and Mrs. Woodward, and
others' present included Sir Frank and
Lady Berryman, Brigadier C. E. Chap-
man and Mrs. Chapman, Lt.-General
Ivan Dougherty and Mrs. Dougherty,
and Major-General Denzil Macarthur
Onslow and Mrs. Macarthur Onslow.
☆ * *
A warm, clear night added to the
success of the University Settlement Ball
this year, for after the presentation of
debs, in the Great Hall the official party
always “proceeds” (and the others just
go) to the Union Refectory for dancing
and supper. One always feels that this
short walk between the moonlit Uni-
versity buildings greatly contributes to
the unique atmosphere and general mood
of the ball.
The Chancellor, Sir Charles Bickerton
Blackburn, received the 53 debutantes,
who were escorted by undergraduates in
academic-dress, and presented by Mrs.
S. H. Roberts, wife of the Vice-Chan-
cellor. Admiral and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan
were guests-of-honor, received by chair-
man Mrs. J. Macdonald Holmes.
There is always something of the
atmosphere of a private party at the
refectory, where the dancers flow from
room to room, and where one can look
down from the flower-decked balconies
upon the scene of gaiety in the ballroom.
Those present included Mrs. R. V. Dear-
man (whose daughter Rosemary was
among the debs.), Mrs. J. C. Fischer,
Mrs. P. D. F. Murray and Mrs. Tom
Bateman (who decorated the official-table
with an unusual arrangement of flowers
and fruit).
☆ ☆ ☆
Right in the midst of winter Sydney
has been blest with some glorious spring-
like days, delighting all and reminding
one of the lines from “Midsummer
Night’s Dream”:
— “ The spring, the summer,
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world
By their increase, now knows not which is
which.”
* ☆ ☆
The United Service Institution of
N.S.W. is holding its annual Winter
Dance at Victoria Barracks on Friday,
June 22, at 8 p.m. The U.S.l.’s president,
Lieut.-General E. W. Woodward, with
Mrs. Woodward, will receive the guests.
ir & ☆
The laurel for chairmanship should
probably go to Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward this week, for at the ninth
annual meeting of the War Widows’
Guild of Australia (N.S.W.) he conducted
17 speakers smoothly through a pro-
gramme which lasted only one hour and
a half. State president Mrs. L. L.
Watkins opened the meeting, at which
the Governor, Sir John Northcott, was
present, and Federal president Mrs. G. A.
Vasey, who made a one-day visit to
Sydney specially for the occasion, pro-
duced some of her provocative ideas.
“Governments,” she said, “still regard us
as half-human and expect us to keep a
family on half the pension which goes to
an incapacitated ex-serviceman.” Four-
hundred members attended the meeting,
which celebrated the 10th anniversary of
the guild, and a birthday-cake, specially
iced by Mrs. J. Jubb and made by Mrs.
C. Dawkins, was cut in honor of the
occasion.
☆ ☆ ☆
Conversation: “Aren’t the Duchess of
Windsor’s memoirs awful?” “Elsa Max-
well’s are worse.” “Oh, I'don’t think so.
At least Elsa Maxwell is catty."
9 V V
“The Tintookies,” the engaging little
fairy-puppets at the Elizabethan Theatre,
have apparently introduced a new word
into the Australian vocabulary and a new
explanation of why things disappear.
One little boy, questioned about a shor-
tage in the biscuit-jar, replied, “I think
the tintookies took ’em.”
Jennifer Purser's coming-of-age was
celebrated with a party given at the Darl-
ing Point home of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Normand Purser. Jennifer has just
completed a three-year course in beauty-
care, which included a study of the book-
keeping and business-methods necessary
for such a career; she plans to further
her studies abroad in about a year’s time.
At her 21st-birthday party she wore with
her rose-colored taffeta dress the
sapphire-and-diamond brooch and wrist-
watch which were the gifts of her
parents. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
A reference made by the Governor,
Sir John Northcott, to “the rules of
Army-nursing” brought a ripple of
laughter from his audience, mostly
trained nurses, when he opened the Dis-
cussion Week organised by the N.S.W.
College of Nursing and the N.S.W. State
Committee of the College, of Nursing,
Australia. Apparently they are words
fraught with meaning for those who have
suffered under the rules. The chair at the
opening meeting was taken jointly by Miss
Nora McDonald and Miss Joyce Rod-
mell, and the guest-speaker was Dr. Jean
Martin, lecturer in anthropology at
Sydney University. Her subject was “Our
Adjustment to Change.” The theme of
Discussion Week was “Modern Approach
to Nursing,” which, as Miss McDonald
pointed out, needs special study because
of the spectacular changes which have
taken place in medicine during the past
10 to 15 years.
☆ ☆ ☆
A French dinner will be held in the
main hall of the Y.W.C.A. tomorrow,
June 21, at 6.30, and will be followed by
films on France and French music, a
display of French dolls and songs by a
French choir in provincial French
costumes. From the evening a donation
will be made towards World Fellowship
Funds.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Henry Lawson Literary Society
will hold its birthday-celebrations at Scott
Chambers, Hosking-place, tonight (Wed-
nesday, June 20).
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydneyites are becoming much more
coffee - conscious. Whereas formerly
there was “just nowhere to go for a
good cup of coffee, just nowhere at all,"
now there are three or four quite reliable
little spots. Coffee-grinders are to be
found in quite a few of the more advanced
homes, and many an object, taken by
the ignorant for a piece of modern art,
turns out to be a new kind of percolator.
Latest suggestion is to stir your coffee
with cinnamon-sticks. Now, that w
smart!


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOI’TH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SI DNEY,
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Divorce Notice
IN
OP
THE SUPREME COURT
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes No. 15 of 1956.
BETWEEN JOYCE ADELAIDE HOI E
Plaintiff and BERNARD HOPE Defendant.
TO BERNARD HOPE formerly of Como
W.A.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JOYCE ADELAIDE HOPE has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the following ground: Entire failure
during a period of three years at least
immediately prior to the commencement
of this action to make periodical pay-
ments of maintena nee which you are
obliged to make by the terms of an
Order of the Court of Petty Sessions Pertn
of the 24th day of November 1950 If
you desire to defend the said action you
must file a statement of your defence
to the plaintiff’s claim in the Central
Office of' the Supreme Court Perth within
Forty clear days after the date of publi-
cation of this notice In default of your
so doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
Orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 29th day of May, 1956.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. PARKER
BYASS & SCHLAM, 15 Howard Street,
Perth, Solicitors for the abovenamed
Plaintiff.
HOLDEN UTILITY TOES AUSTRALIAN SALES BECAUSE
Holden gives you
the best combination of
power, economy, value
Owners frcm all over Australia have
reported that Holden Utility gives you the
ideal combination of 6 cylinder power with
30 miles to the gallon economy and excep-
tional dependability. Proof of Holden’s
better value is the fact that during 1955
official Holden Utility registrations were
four times those of the next most popular
model.
How well Holden fulfils all claims made
for it is shown by this letter from Mr. C. W.
Knott of Haber field, N.S.W. He writes:
“I purchased a Holden Utility ... in
February 1952 . . . My occupation is a
Master Butcher. In the four years I have
had this vehicle ADN767, it has been used
for carting meat, delivering orders, and
buying at country centres.
“The first two years it was used on
country roads from Wagga, to such
adjacent towns as Albury, Junee, Tumut,
Leeton, Griffith . . . this vehicle has done
work on all types of roads, country and
city. At present I have 39,000 miles on my
speedo, and have never had the head off,
not even to adjust tappets, the only replace-
ment being one set of spark plugs. I
consider this a mighty effort, and thought
it my duty to pass on such information.”
There’s no doubt that you get the best
combination of power, economy, depend-
ability and value in Holden Utilities. Let
your Holden dealer prove it on an actual
demonstration. In view of the increasing
demand for Holden, may we suggest that
you see him as soon as possible.
Q23T
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
Convenient hire purchase arrangements available through GMAC—General Motors own hire
purchase company. ‘Air Chief is the only Car Radio approved by GMH engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
The Buddha Head
• To mark the 2500th anni-
versary of the Parinirvana, or
Rebirth of the Buddha, Mel-
bourne National Gallery has put
on exhibition its various treasures
of Buddhistic art from India,
China, Japan, Burma, Siam and
South-East Asia, excellently dis-
played and lighted, a compliment
to the new director.
Present writer found a personal
as well as an aesthetic interest in
the exhibition. When he opened
the catalogue, there it was look-
ing at him —a Head of Buddha
from Borobudur, Java —still with
the same soft, imperturbable
expression on its face.
It was carved from the volcanic
rock of Middle Java round about
a.d. 800 by some simple Indian
or Javanese craftsman, and it sat
on the terrace inside a dagoba at
Borobudur looking at a ring of
smoking mountains until, a
couple of centuries later, some
Moslem zealot came along and
knocked the head off. Then the
considerate Merapi covered it
and the temple with ashes, the
friendly jungle dropped its leaves
upon it, and it was forgotten.
Uncovered by an astonished
engineer during the British
occupation under Sir Stamford
Raffles, it was carefully re-
covered by the jungle and the
volcano when the islands were
returned to Holland. Unearthed
once more when the Dutch
realised the commercial value of
the majestic Hindu ruins, it
eventually made its way by some
means or other to the sea-coast,
where a Madura fisherman used
it for an anchor.
One stormy night, when there
was a Sumatran blowing, the
fisherman slipped his anchor, and
a generation later it rolled up on
the beach near Sourabaya, where
it was picked up by a seaman of
the Koninklijke Paketvaart
Maatschappij bound for Sydney.
A pious Moslem, who had incor-
porated the Dhyani Buddhas into
his religion as Jinns who could
be placated, the sailor was
delighted, and he gave the head
a coat of paint of many garish
colors and stuffed it in the bows
of the steamer, which conse-
quently went to and fro between
Sourabaya and Sydney for many
years without the slightest
misadventure.
All the way down the Java
Sea past Bali, Bima, Kisser and
Dammer and the Timor Sea to
Darwin, and through and around
the reefs and channels of the
Great Barrier Reef, it smiled
benignly. No more evil could
happen to it worse than the evil
it had suffered ; it was as near
Nirvana as any Dhyani Buddha
is likely to get in this world.
Sometimes the spray off
Sydney Heads wetted its
Brussels-sprouts-curls and its
topknot, but without shaking its
composure, until one sad day in
1908 of the Christian era the
present writer stepped aboard the
S.S. Vandenbosch in Sourabaya.
This greedy end-gainer had
been spending a couple of ecstatic
weeks prowling around the acres
of ruined temple at Borobudur,
the square-miles of them at
Parambaran and the Dieng, and
he didn’t need to be an amateur
archaeologist of much distinction
to recognise the authentic
features of the Buddha beneath
its paint.
“Slip a note to the head-
serang,” said the Dutch captain,
“and he’ll put it in your barang
—nobody’ll notice she’s gone
before the ship sails.”
So the Buddha head was
slipped into a camphorwood
trunk and well covered with
shirts and singlets, and the only
one-armed wharfie ever to be
employed in an Australian port
Started to drag it up the
companion-way when the
Buddha, objecting to being thus
ignominipusly plucked back into
the world of the senses, exerted
all its weight and tore the hook
out of the wharfie’s wooden arm,
broke through the bottom of the
trunk and lay looking upwards
without losing its benign expres-
sion, in full view of any Customs
official who might be passing.
None, however, happened to be
passing, so the head was hastily
stuffed back into the trunk and
five-minutes later began its 50-
odd years of residence in
Australia.
Since then it has been up and
down the country, has warmed
itself at innumerable firesides,
and finally, or almost finally,
ended-up as a doorstop at 68
Latrobe-street, that beautiful old
mansion which has gone to an
even worse end than the Buddha
—the Williamstown breakwater.
At 68 it was surveyed by
buyers for the Felton Bequest,
who saw in it an individual
portrait, although there are
thousands such in Java, and now
it is with its old mates, helping
to celebrate the 2500th anni-
versary of its great exemplar.
One tells this story—against
oneself, maybe—because the
stories in the official textbooks
are fallacious. One is that the
Buddhist monks, beleaguered in
the temple by the Moslems,
drove their enemies off by
bombarding them with the Lord
of Victory’s noble features;
another is that a Dutch
lieutenant of Hussars encouraged
his men to try the temper of
their swords on the ears and
noses of the silent host of Dhyani
Buddhas when the rebels of
Sentot and Kiahi Maja were not
available. Don’t believe it —the
National Gallery Buddha lost its
nose in an encounter with a
tomahawk wielded by a small
boy in Adelaide.
M.G.S.
Stage and Music
“The Tintookies
Peter Scriven’s marionettes,
playing some weird musical and
dramatic concoction called “The
Tintookies,” make a very gay
little show at the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s hideout in the
wilds of Newtown, Sydney.
It is rather like a show of
comic ballet, except that it is
often genuinely funny, whereas
ballet is usually pretentious. It
is also rather like musical-
comedy, except that it is frankly
juvenile—so you don’t have to
worry about the intellectual
standards of stage-entertainment.
Anybody young in heart
should thoroughly enjoy it; and
for the very young it has the
inestimable advantage that not
more than two-minutes of it
could possibly be considered
frightening . . . and the Bunyip,
who provides those two alarming
minutes, is so magnificent a con-
ception, looking like a cross
between a gigantic sea-horse and
Mr. Eddie Ward, that fear is
quite likely to be lost in admira-
tion.
There are, of course, things to
criticise in it. The relation to
the Australian scene —contrived
by plunging a wombat, a koala
and a possum into the middle-
European tradition of pixies,
magicians and comic town-
councillors (not that ours aren’t
comic) —is thin and strained.
The voices, particularly in the
singing, too often fail to make
their words clear. The possum
is too blank in features and too
sweetly-sentimental in character.
And it seems most unfair to
make the wombat’s search for
the underwater treasure-chest
the occasion for discovering,
instead of real treasure, a dis-
gusting little moral about the
beauties of friendship.
But those are details: one
blast of the marionettes’ gorge-
ous town-band is enough to
silence all criticism. So is any
of the great moments of comic
spectacle: the clown with the
balloon on the end of his nose,
the workman having such
trouble with his wheelbarrow,
the astronomer whirling through
the air on his telescope, the
town-clerk gabbling through the
minutes of the previous meeting,
the mayor with his nose-blow-
ings and skulduggery, the horse
that sits down with the dray . . .
And there are, too, one or two
really captivating bits of pretty
spectacle: the flying ballet of
the stars in the night-sky, and
(as in the poem by William Hart-
Smith) the corresponding under-
water ballet of the fish.
Beatrice Tange
In an exacting Pro Musica
Society programme in Sydney
University’s Great Hall pianist
Beatrice Tange showed a keen
awareness of the musical fitness
of things and a technical com-
mand of some distinction.
By selecting Beethoven’s
Sonata in E Flat Major, Op. 27
No. 1 (a sister-work of the
“Moonlight”) the pianist trod an
unjustifiably-neglected path, just
as the composer opened-up new
country in its construction —it is
the first sonata in which the four
movements are fused into an
inseparable entity. The andante
flowed smoothly, with tenderness
in every bar; the scherzo had a
respectable degree of the gruff
Beethovian humor; the lovely
melody of the adagio was
phrased with affectionate care;
and there was no lack of the
essential vitality and high spirits
in the final allegro vivace.
The other big work was the
Busoni transcription of the
Bach “Chaconne.” This great
edifice of sound, built-up on a
ground-bass, had strongly
marked contours, and the rolling
sonorities in the left hand were
only a little short of the requisite
weight and depth.
There were also the “Three
Sea Poems” by Ernest Bloch,
their tone-colorings painted
deftly and delicately; Doh-
nanyi’s “Capriccio in F Minor,”
rather a squib compared with
the brilliant pyrotechnics of
Liszt’s transcription of the
“Paganini Theme,” swept-
through by Miss Tange with
commendable elan and
accuracy ; and Szymanowski’s B
Flat Minor Etude, its emotional
content throttled-back in favor
of a more reflective study.
Talkies
“We’re No Angels” (Sydney
Prince Edward): Humphrey
Bogart, Peter Ustinov and Aldo
Ray —tough convicts escaped
from Devil’s Island —happen
upon another spot of trouble
piled-up for a kindly storekeeper
in the colony’s civilian quarter.
They are in process of ratting
his store for more presentable
habiliments when they discover
that the storekeeper is about to
be visited by a repellent cousin
from France who threatens to
ruin the harmless and kind-
hearted one. The trio co-opt the
willing services of a pet viper
they carry about for the possible
dispatch of inconvenient persons
—the ophidian rejoices in the
name of Adolf —and from the
arrival of the cousin the proceed-
ings become a long series of
chuckles and guffaws, with the
audience kept guessing whether
the viper will poison the cousin,
or vice versa.
“Father Brown, Detective”
(Sydney Lyceum): G. K.
Chesterton’s engaging character
is drawn with great subtlety by
Alec Guiness, and in his joust-
ings with the master-thief
Flambeau there is much delight-
ful mental cut-and-thrust with
action snappily paced. Peter
Finch as the priest-sleuth’s
opponent is also in top form.


Brigalow
By
R. S.
PORTEOUS
'Twos merry ’mid the black-
woods, when we spied
the station roofs,
To wheel the wild scrub cattle
at the yard,
With a running fire of stock-
whips and a fiery run of
hoofs;
Oh ! the hardest day was never
then too hard.
—From “THE SICK STOCK-
RIDER,” by ADAM LINDSAY
GORDON.
CHAPTER I
T HE bank-manager drew a
neat square in the corner
of his blotter, and looked
up at me over the top of
his glasses.
“Anders,” he said thought-
fully. “Let me see now. What
relation would you be to old
Bob Anders who used to own
Combedere?”
“He was my father.”
“H’m. Your father, eh?” A
circle surrounded the square, a
circle drawn with such slow
deliberation that I had time to
study the heavy, rather petulant
face, with its worried lines
drooping from the comers of
the mouth to lose themselves in
the sagging jowl. “A good
property, Combedere. A good
cattle-property.” Two lines from
corner to corner formed a cross
inside the square. “But your
dad didn’t make much of a
success of it, did he?”
“No. He went broke. There
wasn’t much water on it in his
day, and a run of bad seasons
finished him.”
“Bad seasons or bad manage-
ment.”
It was not a question, just a
completely disinterested remark
dropped casually as the point of
the pencil stabbed into the exact
centre of the square. He was not
even looking at me as he said it.
But I made him look up from
his doodling. I jumped up,
almost capsizing my chair as I
said hotly, “I didn’t come here
to listen to you insulting my dad.
What do you know about the
way he ran the place, anyhow?”
It did not even strike me that
it was scarcely a tactful outburst
for a man who was looking for
a job. Dad may not have been
much of a businessman, but he
was a good cattleman. And no
one could say he was not a hard
worker. He loved Combedere,
even through its drought-years,
and, in spite of what the doctors
said, I’ve always felt he died of
a broken heart when he was
forced off it.
The bank-manager put his
pencil down and, for the first
time since I had been ushered
into his office, showed a definite
interest in me. He looked me
up and down, noting, I suppose,
that I was just on six-feet tall and
as lean as a hungry kangaroo-
dog.
The build of a good horseman,
in popular opinion. There’s not
a scrap of truth in the belief.
Good horsemen come in all
shapes. Still, if I looked like one
to this man of finance, so much
the better; he wanted a horse-
man, and I wanted a job, wanted
it badly.
“Sit down, man,” he soothed.
“Sit down. I was merely
generalising. I didn’t know any-
thing about your dad’s affairs;
he was before my time. Besides,
he didn’t bank with us. His
account was with the ’Wales,
wasntit.
It was. And he was a hell of
a good cattleman.”
t f h- ° r n ° i° b ’ 1 felt } hac ?- t0
let mm see ne was not getting
away with his original hint.
doubSat^’ 88 DOt
He waited for me to resume
mv seat
“This term ‘a eood cattleman’
doesn’t mean a£tome”he
went on mking UD his nencff
went on, idKing up ms pencil
again. Don t mistake me ;I m
not referring to your father. I’m
pointing out that I could name
a ,?T n or more of these so-
called good cattlemen who never
do anything to improve their
properties or reduce their over-
drafts. They go on, year after
aSTSvT wToUTout to
ana whenever we point out to
hmh ,W hITT PnntlZ
limit they blame it on to bad
tankTs maUngThhlgs hart to
them, ’giving a 1 raw 0r
“The hank mind von i Whv
lhe bank mind you! Why,
if it wasnt for the bank they d
be workine for wages Thev’re
oe wonting ror wages, iney re
the type ot men who give bank-
managers gastric-ulcers. I know.
I’ve got one myself.”
He patted his big, sagging
belly tenderly.
“Gives me hell. No let-up,
day or night. And all brought
on by worry, trying to teach
these fellows how to run their
stations, trying to keep them
from financial ruin. You prob-
ably haven’t come up against
this side of the cattle-industry,
er—what’s your first-name?”
“Bob.”
“Same as your dad, eh?
Mine’s Forster, in case they
didn’t tell you. Well, Bob, let’s
get down to business. How old
are you?”
“Twenty-six.”
“Any other experience besides
wbat you bad on Combedere?”
«y es » j was e xtremelv anxi-
ous now to
sion - P ut in tw ° years
jackerooing in the Gulf-country
and Anally tossed it in to do the
overland trip with a mob of
bullocks going down to
Ad i id „ &
Aaelaide -
1 watched Mr. Forster’s
pencil move across his blotter
£ 'top his.design with a pair of
bullock s horns.
I reckoned the experience
would be good for me. Besides.
I was fed-up with the Gulf. Nine
' mon K thS ° £ th ? year a man / s °f
m t h e mustenng-camp with only
a mob of niggers for company.
That’s why I’m looking for
something a bit closer to civilisa-
U °f , . .
II was true enou § h ’ as far as
it went No poi tin admitting
that l would h^ve iumDed at *
• , IP Y
b nQ matter how far out lt
J ’
..y , . fi .. . ...
' ™ J ust thls
, ™B‘ ,np ’, ! TTT T
He ‘ - ,„> 4 s ”‘* ed when j
thought of all that had happened
smce then. It s four-and-a-half
Y e ars smce we delivered those
b ulloc ks in Adelaide.
“Four - and -a - half years!
Where have you been working
since then?”
“I haven’t,” I told him, and
found myself grinning at the
puzzled expression on his fat
face. “Unless you could call
being in the Army working.”
A capital “A” surmounted
the bullock’s horns. Evidently
Mr. Forster’s thoughts flowed
through his restless pencil.
“The Army!” He managed to
make it sound on a par with
Boggo Road Jail. “You’ve been
-11 that time in the Army?”
Mos t of it,” I admitted.
I didn’t see why I should tell
him of my failures since my dis-
charge. Somehow those tough
Army years had soured me
aeainst the hard life of nuthaclc
againsi me naiu me or outoacK
cattle-stations and droving-
? a ™P s - Wltb others > 1 felt ld
crudeTivtog You sk ? I hadbeen
in the Light' Horse On what must
j n me Ligni i-ioise on wnat must
rf J“»
and j came out 0 £ j t f ee jj nß j
never wanted to see TiTse
again muc h less sleen nieht
S ’ m"ht in a bSet lhal
reeked of stale horse-sweat
others, the shrewd ones, were
making comfortable livings in
the cities. Why shouldn’t I?
Tt took me onlv _ month or
It t°ok me only a month or
two to find the answer. City jobs
not fitted
were scarce and Iwas not fitted
anyoftheim. Ab °ut the only
th.ng the big cues wanted of me
my money. Well they got
>*• Mr - F ° rs < ers te ler ™.“ ld
have no need to work overtime
to count all I had left.
Luckily Mr. Forster was not a
mind-reader. He regarded his
design as if wondering what to
add to it, and said, "A pity. A
great ? Four-and-a-half
years wasted.”
I know I should have kept my
mouth shut. In my position a
remark like that should have
been answered diplomatically
or ignored. The sensible thing
would have been to say nothing.
Instead I blurted out:
“Listen, Mr. Forster. I’m a
pretty easygoing sort of a bloke,
but if there’s one thing that gets
rne mad it’s to hear chaps who’ve
had good soft jobs all through
he war running down the blokes
\ hat w ? nt away. Im not claim-
,l°* t0 T , be a hero or anything like
sat I ve just got my own ideas
You stick to your opinions and
1 11 stick to mine.”
Forster nut his neneil
down ‘ , ~ , •
gastric-ulcer B His named look
sa“„ly IhT T was Tot
going to allow himself to get
entering into heated
afgumenl ®
“You misunderstand me,
young fellow,” he said “I was
not attempting to belittle the
"ten who fought for their
country. If it hadn’t been for
l henl * e .' d . be in ® n ; ce mess now.
h Ta'^TshoS/K' hoS
that a war should take up those
years, irreplaceable years, of our
young men > s lives »
t-jv* «ir>v-ori nn iiio
, P lcked U P hls pencil and
added two noughts to his design.
“But to get back to business.
j take it J want thjs jobr
I assured him I did.
“Yes, yes,” he said. “I think
you . u s^ft i migh t mention that
M r . Webster spoke very highly
of you, and I value his opinion,
a man who has made big money
ou t 0 f cattle. But, mind you, I
have no say in the matter of
engaging you. I’ll recommend
yoUj b ut you’ll see Mr.
Carson yourself. He hasn’t even
agreed to put on an overseer
yet.
“You see, he’s always done
I met Albert Newton, the trusted permanent-hand, when we got back to the homestead, and I must admit I took
an instant dislike to him.


the job himself. However, he’s
getting on in years now. Doesn’t
spend nearly as much time on a
horse as he should. Putting on
too much weight for a horse-
man. He says he s a sick man.
Was in here a while back com-
plaining about his gastric-ulcer
for two solid hours. Between
you and me, I think it s all
imagination. If he had to put up
with the pain I suffer he’d have
something to talk about. How-
ever, the main point is that he
doesn’t get about as much as he
should. I’m told the cattle are
getting out of hand. I suggested
he put on a young overseer, and
he asked me to look around for
a likely man. Said he’d consider
it in the meantime.”
I FELT like grinning, but I
stifled it. This job was in
the bag. I knew a little about
bank-managers and their deal-
ings with station-managers. They
spoke of suggestions, but when
the overdraft was close to its
limit the suggestion was practic-
ally an order. This man, Forster,
had not been slamming cattle-
men just for the sake of hearing
himself talk. He had been hold-
ing forth—“generalising,” as he
called it—for a very definite pur-
pose. He, not Carson, wanted
the overseer put on to safeguard
the bank’s interests, and he
wanted to make sure I got the
point.
“It’s no use taking the job on
if you’re afraid of hard work,”
he went on. “The fencing is in
bad repair, and you’ll find a lot
of other things need doing.”
“Hard work never frightens
me,” I assured him. “What size
is this property?”
“A hundred-and-thirty-thou-
sand acres. Not very well sub-
divided, and a lot of the country
is brigalow scrub. Your best
plan will be to go out and inter-
view Mr. Carson yourself.”
I said, “That’ll suit me, Mr.
Forster. How do I get there?”
“You catch the Western Mail.
There’s a train gets to Dilargo
shortly after midnight. That’s
where you get off. I’ll ring Car-
son and tell him you’re coming,
but if he doesn’t meet the train
you’d better go to the pub for
the night. Yakaparni —that’s
Carson’s property —is twenty
miles out, and the old chap may
not feel like driving in till the
morning. I know he doesn’t
like driving at night. Anyone’ll
tell you where the pub is;
there’s only one in Dilargo.”
“I’ll find it,” I told him. I
stood up and picked up my hat.
“Goodbye, Mr. Forster. And
thanks.”
He lumbered to his feet and
shook hands warmly, giving me
the impression that he was well
pleased with the results of our
interview. “You won’t miss
that train, will you?” he asked.
“I won’t,” I answered, not
bothering to stifle the grin this
time. “Mr. Carson wants an
overseer, and I want a job.”
That let him see I was keen.
No sense in telling him how des-
perately I needed the job, that
after paying my fare and hotel-
accommodation I would be
almost broke. I certainly would
not have enough left over for
my fare back to town if old Car-
son decided he didn’t like the
look of me.
CHAPTER II
/”\NLY one other passenger got
off the Western Mail at
Dilargo that night. He banged
the carriage-door loudly, leaped
to the ground and vanished
through the fence into the dark-
ness beyond.
Far back along the train a
light streamed from a small
booking-office. On the edge of
the patch of light a man, evi-
dently the night-officer, was
hurriedly checking parcels with
the aid of a dim lantern.
The yellowish lantern-light
changed to green and was waved
to and fro until answered by a
piercing shriek from the engine’s
whistle. Slowly at first, but
rapidly gathering speed, the
Western Mail snorted and
clanked on its way, leaving me
alone in the unknown darkness.
From some distant backyard
a rooster crowed, his call
answered presently by another
and yet another. I picked up my
suitcase and felt my way care-
fully along the track towards
the patch of light.
The night-officer was tossing
the last few packages through the
open door when I put the suit-
case down and said, “Good-
night.”
“Twelve, thirteen, fourteen,
fifteen,” he intoned. “That’s the
lot. G’night.” He shone his
lantern on my face and asked,
“You the bloke that’s goin’ out
to Yakaparni?”
“Yes,” I admitted. “Anyone
come in to meet me?”
“No. Old Carson rang the
pub and told ’em to put you up
for the night. He’ll be in after
breakfast in the mornin’ to
pick you up. The pub’s straight
up the road; you can’t miss it.
A big two-story place. Room
ten’s yours. Up the stairs and
turn to the right. You don’t
need to wake no one up.”
“I won’t. Thanks for the
information, and good-night.”
I was already on my way
when he called, “Alf a mo’. Got
a ticket?” He accepted the bit
of pasteboard without even
glancing at it, and added one
more useful piece of informa-
tion : “Watch out for the third
step. It’s broke.”
The hotel was easy to locate;
so also was the stairway. A
lighted match revealed the
broken third step, and I went
quietly up. I might have found
my room and turned-in without
disturbing anyone had it not
been for the dog. It was curled-
up at the head of the stairs, and
when I stumbled over it it gave
a startled yelp. It would be hard
to say which of us got the
bigger fright. I know I lost my
balance, grabbed for the railing
and dropped my suitcase. It
landed on the unfortunate dog,
and the wretched animal fled
along the veranda yelping with
all the strength of a pair of
powerful lungs.
An irritable voice called, “Go
and lie down, you rotten
mong! ” and from somewhere
closer at hand another peevish
boarder complained, “Gawd
stone the bloody crows, does
everybody ’ave to walk on the
poor flamin’ dorg?” The chal-
lenge was taken up immediately
by a third voice, wide awake
and definitely hostile. “Why
don’t y’ tie the b up out the
back where ’e belongs?” it
demanded.
Wars have started over lesser
incidents. Retrieving my suit-
case I crept along to Room 10.
No one, I felt, could call this
a very auspicious arrival.
IF there were any further inci-
dents over the dog I didn’t
hear them. I slept soundly until
“Sounds like old Carson’s tilly..."
the clatter of cups aroused me,
and a girl’s voice asked,
“Cuppa tea mister?”
“Gripes'” I exclaimed, sitting
un and blinking at the plain,
cheerful face topped by a mop
", untidy'hair, X I didn't
expect this luxury.”
“It’s sixpence extra,” the girl
announced. “D’y’ want it?”
“Too right I want it,” I told
her. What better investment
could I make with the dregs of
my capital? “Shove it on the
chair, please.”
She put the cup of tea on the
chair and said tonelessly,
“Coffee-room or dinin’-room?
“Eh?” I exclaimed, wondering
Maybe Lizzie put the acid on all newcomers.
A
for the moment what the d
she was talking about. It was
so long since I had stayed at a
country pub hat Id 8
about their double-dining
arrangements. If you we e
la^a^ ie ™
mn jju ate m i
roomandpaid a a
or an ordinary laborer
ck^ ad °L“ m eals in the
Y •
g distinction was made so
Mrs Stat j on Owner, on her
t own WO uld not find
teLlf seated’at ?he ,abl e next
Qne Qf her Qwn stockmen .
There was something to be said
in favor of it> for it also gave
the stockmen a certain freedom
of speech and dress they could
haye enjoyed had the boss
and his wife been sitting down
with them.
“You deaf, mister?” the girl
asked, jogging my memory. “I
said coffee-room or dinin’-
r0 om?” ,
“Oh, coffee-room.” To hell
with the expense. I had, if the
gods and Mr. Carson were
favorable, a certain prestige to
uphold. “Shove me in with the
blooming plutocrats.”
She snorted, but seemed in no
hurry to go. “You goin’ to stay
long on Yakaparni?” she
inquired.
That was the worst of these
small country towns. Everyone
knew all about a stranger as
soon as he arrived. Well they
could know nothing of my
future; I was completely in the
dark about it myself. .
“I don’t know,” I admitted,
•That _ depends, on several
things.
The answer obviously did not
satisfy her. She looked capable
of firing a few more questions at
me, but fortunately I was saved
by a shrill, and authoritative
Lizzie. Lizzie, from some-
where below-stairs.
Lizzie arranged the cups on
her tray, and moved unhurriedly
off. In the doorway she paused
and looked back. “There s a
dance Saturdee night,” she
volunteered. “C.W.A.”
At least I had made one good
impression in Dilargo. Or may-
be Lizzie put the acid on all
newcomers.
AFTER a breakfast with two
commercials, I stood on
the veranda and looked the
township over. Dilargo con-
sisted of little more than one
long street running parallel with
the railway-line. Besides the
hotel there were two general-
stores, a cafe and picture-show
combined, garage, post-office,
police-station and a large ugly
building which I guessed would
be the local School of Arts.
Why these barren halls were
termed “Schools of Art” was a
mystery I had never been able
to solve, for they rarely con-
tained either a book or a picture
of any sort. The Saturday-night
dances were held there, and
sometimes they were used as
concert-halls for the local talent.
Along this broad, sunny street
a few gaunt ironbarks raised
their almost shadeless branches
to the blue sky. I was thinking
what an unlovely township it
was when a voice behind me
inquired, “Find your bed all
right last night?”
Apparently this was the pub-
lican, a short, genial-looking tub
of a man with humorous blue
eyes set in a maze of wrinkles.
His hair was grey and decidedly
curly. His name, l discovered
later, was Ryan. Everyone
called him Curly. It was his
boast that in his youth he’d had
a go at every type of bush job—
droving, shearing, horse-break-
ing, contracting and anything
else that came his way. He must
have been a tough man then,
but the pub had softened him.
Years of sampling his own wares
had given him a belly that made
him waddle as he walked.
I liked him at once, and
answered, “Yes, thanks. But
I’m afraid I woke everyone up
when I fell over the dog.”
“That damn’ mong of Mat-
son’s. Ought to be tied-up out
the back. It’s the same every
time ’e stops ’ere.”
There was no malice in his
tone. Nor was there any great
conviction in his manner when I
said something about the broken
step being dangerous.
“That’s right,” he agreed.
“She’s a trap for young players.
Have to fix it before somebody
breaks a leg.”
He hitched his trousers an
inch or two higher over his
immense girth, and said,
“Sounds like old Carson’s tilly
cornin’ now.” An ancient Ford
utility swung into the far-end of
the main street. “Yair, that’s
’im all right.”
I remarked that I had better
get my suitcase and settle his
account, but he assured me there
was no hurry ; Carson wouldn’t
be here for an hour or more.
He was right, of course; he
knew the habits of everyone in
the district. As the morning
wore on he supplied me with a
sort of running-commentary
each time Carson’s tilly started
or stopped.
“Goin’ in to the doc.’s.
Musta killed last night. Takin’
in a roast of beef.” And at the ;
next stop, “Looks like the shire
clerk’s gettin’ one, too.”
Mr. Carson also called at the
railway-station, the post-office
and McGinn’s General Store.
It was after ten-o’clock when he
drew-up in front of the pub.
I had already sounded Curly
out on his drinking-habits,
and was immensely relieved
at his answer of, “A
regular booze-artist. One
light shandy every council-
day.” Had Carson turned-out
to be one of the hard-drinking
type I would have had to think-
up some excuse to cover the
fact that the settling of Curly’s
account had left me with exactly
one-and-sevenpence.
Above the noisy clatter of his
engine Carson called, “Are you
Bob Anders? Chuck your suit-
case in the back and hop in.
Don’t want to stop the engine
again.”
I hopped in, and with a shud-
dering roar we swept out of
town.
ON the drive out to Yakaparni
we talked of the weather,
chances of a drought—anything
except the reason for my being
there. That was never men-
tioned. The nearest Carson got
to it was an inquiry after his
bank-manager.
“Still bellyaching about his
gastric-ulcers, I suppose,” he
snorted. “Imaginitis, that’s his
trouble. Nothing to do but sit
there all day running-down the
man on the land. If it wasn’t
for us he’d be out of a job.”
For most of the drive he was
silent, sitting erect behind the
wheel and concentrating on a
method of driving that was, to
say the least of it, unusual.
He was a big man, no taller
than my own six-feet, but heavily
built, with thickly rounded
shoulders. His paunch, while
not to be compared with Curly
Ryan’s, was pronounced. Cer-
tainly he carried far too much
weight for an active horseman.
The hands gripping the steer-
ing-wheel were big and gnarled,
the hands of a man used to
manual labor; the strong, cap-
able hands of a worker. Years
(i Continued on next page)


Faith in the
Future
\
b
In an era of marked expansion, the need for
roads in Australia becomes more insistent. So
insistent, in fact, that I believe a national campaign
should be launched to build and maintain them.
The proposal, I know, involves considerations
such as the responsibility for building them and the
channelling of finance to pay for them. They are
national questions, with which it is not my province
to deal here.
I merely state the position: With population
increasing, the need for better roads becomes daily
more pressing; in the 1954-55 year alone 245,000
new motor vehicles were registered; and an
inadequate system is crumbling under the stress
of wear and weather.
Other countries, large and small, are building
up their roads.
Across 3,000,000 square miles of the United
States a sum approaching 47 billion dollars
(£A21,000 million) is to be spent out of Federal
funds in extending and improving a network that is
already the most imposing in the world.
Switzerland (15,900 square miles) has embarked
upon a big and costly road programme.
In Holland (12,600 square miles) between 2000
and 2500 acres of land desperately needed for a
population of nearly 11 million is to be taken every
year for the next 14 years, so that the Netherlands’
vital road system may be renewed and extended.
Apply these lessons to Australia, with its
2,974,000 square miles, approximating the size of
tile U.S.A.; with its distances, its mobile require-
ments; and we see how much is awaiting fulfilment
here.
As a nation we are young. Our task, while
consolidating what we have, is to see that the way
is prepared to a still richer future.
Most of the rewards that can come to us are
developmental rewards—and that means literally
the opening up of new avenues to wealth.
Come what may, a good system of wide
surface roads remains a first essential in the
Australian economy.
7
ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instrument!
for inf (laii of HidHMg
MCTER CHARTS a Spaciahf
JXCWmWg d r SILLI VAN
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
of exposure had reddened rather
than tanned his face, a redness
emphasised by grey hair and a
flowing, grey moustache. It was
a broad face, heavy-jowled and
remarkably unlined for his age.
Even in his town-clothes he
could never be taken for any-
thing but a bushman. He was
coatless, and the collar of his
pale-blue shirt was so stiffly
starched it appeared to be cutting
its way into his bull-like neck. His
blue, polka-dotted tie looked out
of place on his broad chest, and
his olive gaberdine trousers were
held up by a heavy, workman-
like belt equipped with the inevi-
table knife-pouch.
As to his driving—it seemed
to me a mixture of extreme
caution and sheer recklessness,
As we rattled away from the pub
he set the throttle in a position
calculated to give the old Ford
a speed of about twenty miles an
hour, and thereafter he never
touched it. On the good
stretches of road and the slight
uphill grades we appeared to be
crawling; on the down-grades
and odd stretches where narrow
side-tracks wound through dense
timber we fairly hurtled along,
Down creek-banks we rattled
recklessly, trusting to our own
momentum to carry us up the
opposite bank,
I knew that the throttle,
brakes and low-gear were in
working-order, because Carson
had used them all when he
pulled-up at the pub. Yet
throughout the drive he corn-
pletely ignored them. He kept
both feet planted on the floor
and concentrated wholly on
steering, dodging every rut with
uncanny precision,
Twenty miles an hour is a
long way from speeding, yet
there were times on that drive
when I found it positively nerve-
racking. Those were the occa-
sions when Carson left the road
and went bush. We were in
thick box-country when he did
it the first time. “To dodge a
bit of rough stuff,” he explained,
Personally, I would have pre-
ferred to bump over the rough
stuff. We wound in and out,
flashing between trees where I
would have sworn no car could
fit, and the pace never slackened.
Admittedly, we never so much
as grazed a sapling, but I heaved
a sigh of relief when we were
once more back on the road.
“That’s the boundary,” Carson
explained as we clattered over
a cattle-grid. “We’re in the bul-
lock-paddock now.”
My first impression of Yaka-
parni was good—a glimpse of a
well-kept boundary-fence and
neat double stock-gates that did
not sag wearily on their hinges.
The country, too, was better
than I had been expecting—open
ironbark-country, well grassed,
and with a fair amount of ring-
barking.
Even the ringbarking had been
done with discretion, for, instead
of the usual unrelieved mono-
tony of stark, dead trees, odd
patches of green timber had
been left to form shady camps
for the cattle.
That impression persisted
right up to the homestead. This
looked like a small village, well
planned and well kept, with its
array of sheds, stockmen’s
quarters and yards.
Unlike so many barren station-
homesteads this one was blessed
with a fine collection of shade-
trees. Ptepperinas, kurrajongs
and bottle-trees had been
planted where their shade would
be most welcome. There were
several surrounding the horse-
yard, and even the big stock-
yard down on the flat had its
quota.
Carson’s house was set in a
big, shady garden on a rise over-
looking a creek. There was a
fine permanent waterhole down
there, with waterlilies blossom-
ing on the surface of the clear
water and big bluegums lining
the banks.
Mrs. Carson came out to greet
us as we drove up. Perhaps it
would be more correct to say
she came out to get the mail, for,
after a quick welcoming smile,
she took the bundle of letters
from her husband and shuffled
through them with feverish
intensity.
Carson was saying, “Peg, this
is Mr. Anders. Bob Anders.
My wife.”
Mrs. Carson looked up from
her mail, and I found myself
staring at a charming woman
who looked small only by com-
parison with her husband’s great
bulk. Soft, pure-white hair
framed a young face that looked
quietly attractive in repose. As
a girl she must have been beauti-
ful. In fact, she still was.
There was something quite strik-
ing about the contrast between
her white hair and the warm
olive-brown of her skin, but
most of all I felt impressed by
her quiet, restful charm.
I knew immediately that I was
looking not at a narrow,
weatherbeaten woman of the
outback, but at a woman with
poise and personality, one who
would be equally at home in the
lounge of Sydney’s most fash-
ionable hotel as she would be
pouring afternoon-tea for a
cattle-buyer on her station-
veranda.
“How do you do, Mr.
Anders.” Mrs. Carson quickly
selected one letter from the
bundle and smiled up at me.
“Do forgive my rudeness, but
I had to see if there was a letter
from my daughter in the mail.
There is one.”
Her voice was warm, but as
quietly restful as her person-
ality. Her smile said, plainer
than any words, “Welcome to
Yakaparni.”
“I expect you’re feeling
hungry after your trip,” she
added. “Lunch will be ready
soon.” She turned to her hus-
band, “Show Mr. Anders his
room, will you, Joseph?, and
then bring him along to the
dining-room.”
CHAPTER 111
r T'HE house was a low, ramb-
-*• ling old building with floors
only a foot or so above ground-
level.
It had been built in the days
when sawn timber and roofing-
iron were either unobtainable or
expensive luxuries, for the walls
were made of adze-dressed
hardwood slabs standing up-
right, and the roof was stringy-
bark.
Wide concrete-floored ver-
andas surrounded it, the eaves
coming so low that a six-foot
man could only just walk under
them without bumping his head.
Comfortable squatters’-chairs
lined the front-veranda, all
facing outwards, so that a man
could lie back in one and gaze
out over a garden crammed to
bursting-point with shade-trees,
flowering-shrubs and flower-
beds. Bougainvilleas sprawled
over trellis and fence and cas-
caded in brilliant crimson
clusters from the framework of
the windmill, pumping water
from the creek to the big over-
head tank.
Through gaps in between the
trees one could look out across
the long waterhole to the purple
and blue of a distant range—
the eastern boundary of the pro-
perty, Carson informed me.
A waterbag hung from the
eaves opposite the dining-room
and another hung outside Car-
son’s office. I was thinking
what a cool, restful place this
veranda would be even on the
hottest day when the lunch-bell
rang and Mrs. Carson called us
into the dining-room.
After looking out across the
sunlit garden, the room at first
seemed gloomy, a momentary
illusion caused by the overhang
of the veranda and the dark
panelling of the walls.
It was a long room, half
dining-room and half sitting-
room. The dining-table and
chairs and a heavy sideboard
occupied one end; the rest of
the room was taken-up with
comfortable armchairs, covered
with brightly-patterned material
and roughly grouped to face an
enormous fireplace.
Polished brass trays and
gleaming brass ornaments
formed a relieving note, for the
oil-portraits of several heavily-
bearded old gentlemen blended
unobtrusively into the dark
walls. The floor was of cypress-
pine scrubbed white and dotted
here and there with patterned
rugs. Flowers stood in vases
around the fireplace and over-
flowed from a bowl in the centre
of the dining-table.
It was a gracious room, a
lived-in room, with the portraits
of the bearded old pioneers
reminding you that it had been
lived-in years before you first
stepped into it. It would be cool
in the heat of summer and warm
on a winter night when the
gleaming brass reflected the glow
from the log-fire burning in the
big stone fireplace.
Mrs. Carson was a hostess
with the rare ability of making
a guest feel at ease without keep-
ing up a flow of talk, which was
just as well, because her husband
believed that eating was a serious
business, not to be interrupted
by frivolous conversation, or
indeed any conversation at all.
He acknowledged his wife’s
occasional remarks with grunts.
Sometimes he did not even
bother to do that. He ate an
enormous meal of cold roast-
beef and salad with reckless
speed, used his table-napkin for
a sweeping rearrangement of his
moustache, and pushed his chair
back with a sigh of satisfaction.
“I’m off to have a camp for
half-an-hour,” he told me. “I’ll
be going out to the far end of
the run after that. Get into some
old clothes if you’d like to
come.”
I went to my room and
changed, wondering whether I
ought to unpack. But as Carson
hadn’t mentioned the job yet I
decided against it, and went on
a short tour of inspection.
The windmill was clanking
gently, and a flourishing vege-
table-garden showed that the
water it pumped was put to good
use. There were grapevines and
well-pruned citrus-trees down
that end of the garden.
Several yards to the rear of
the main building, and joined to
it by a roofed concrete path,
stood the kitchen and men’s
dining-room. Beyond that was
the meat-house, with its solid
cutting-up blocks, salting-
benches and brine-cask.
In turn I inspected the saddle-
room, blacksmith’s shop, tool-
shed and storeroom. Like the
main building, all had slab walls
and bark roofs.
I was thinking what a well-
equipped homestead it was when
Carson came out dressed in a
faded blue shirt, grey moleskins
and down-at-heels elastic-side
boots. On his head was a bat-
tered, sweat-stained straw-hat.
“Right-oh,” he said. “We’d
better get going.”
■yoß went in the utility, and we
saw an amazing amount of
Yakaparni in that one afternoon.
Carson had roads everywhere,
well-defined tracks cut through
the bush to the principal
watering-places and the two
mustering-camps. We crossed
creeks with tall bluegums and
big shady paperbarks lining the
banks, and we drove across open
ironbark ridges—good grazing-
country, with green grass stand-
ing high above the running-
board. We skirted brigalow
scrubs, and we wound through
rough box-country, where
dense forests of saplings grew
amongst the gnarled old box-
trees.
Carson explained the general
lay-out of the property as he
drove. It was not well sub-
divided. Around the homestead
he had a horse-paddock, a small
holding-paddock and a cow-
paddock for the milkers. Out-
side those he had a large
weaner-paddock and a bullock-
paddock. In all, they totalled
something over thirty-thousand
acres. The rest of the run was
“bush” nearly a hundred-
thousand acres or a hundred
square-miles without a fence
other than the boundary-fences.
But long before our drive was
over I had made up my mind
that Mr. Bank-manager Forster
had been talking through his hat
when he hinted that the property
was badly in need of some hard
work. Each of the two muster-
ing-camps was equipped with a
set of yards, a dip, a small horse-
paddock and a bark hut. Both
were situated alongside per-
manent waterholes, and every-
thing was in a state of good
repair.
The first camp was built on a
slight rise in the bend of a creek.
We seemed to come on it sud-
denly, for the yards were partly
concealed behind a screen of
ironbark saplings and quinine-
trees.
The quinine, or bitter-berry,
is a good shade-tree, but because
of its squat, spreading growth it
is not a good tree to have near
the entrance to a yard. Its low
branches, laden with dense green
foliage and bitter yellow berries,
seem to have been designed so
that a cow might race safely
under, but the pursuing horse-
man would have to duck and
twist almost out of the saddle
to escape having the shirt torn
off his back.
Inside the main yards and in
the big cooling-yard, where the
cattle were held after dipping,
both ironbarks and quinine-
trees gave very welcome patches
of shade. No one could object
to their presence there.
“This is what we call
Buckley’s Yards,” Carson
explained. “We start mustering
from here next week.”
I wondered whether he was
including me in that statement,
because he had still said nothing
about the job.
From Buckley’s Yards we
drove, mainly through open
forest country, to the Brigalow
Yards. The ten-mile drive was
not without incidents, as Carson
o Continued on page 24)


Free Additional Insurances!
£14,500,000
is provided in
BONUS DISTRIBUTION
made this year by the
THREE VITAL POINTS
FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS GIVEN AT THE 107th ANNUAL MEETING
m
m*
X
%
J
ysx
\
tf •**
fkm
m-i
mt
j'/ 5 '
•VX
► IMP. RECORD HR business
£143,400,000
This is more than times the
amount of new business
written by the A.M.P. in 1945.
LIT. BONUSES DISTRIBUTED
£14,500,000
This is more than times
the amount of reversionary
bonuses distributed by the
A.M.P. in 1945.
I.H.I 1 . lOPJUICE PH6IICTIIW
£1,166,500,000
This is nearly times the
amount of protection af-
forded A.M.P. policyholders
in 1945.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Geiterdl Manager: M* C, ButHield
Rriadflal 2€Ctt 8. HOSKINS, Chairman; WILUAM A. MACKAY, Deputy Chairman; S.G. ROWE; THE HON. I. A,
■ ' / SAMUEL HORDERN; G. GORDON RUSSELL, C< S. CRANE.
Manager for N.S.W. : F. E. STAHL Sydney Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Every member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £320,000,000 which
’ the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


•+--! 1 4 I -
*
o
■*T-
arm
PQi
L/immaa&J
QOO
QuO
D„fl Q
7XIIO
m f
u
u
*%j
Q
S§
uv*
AVIATION
SERVICE.
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known—
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples end Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and Printers
304 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
frequently left the track and
went bush to look at mobs of
cattle.
His pace never varied, never
slackened, even when he was
weaving through the timber and
at the same time pointing out
cows with unbranded calves.
He knew to a fraction which
stumps had to be dodged and
which could safely be “strad-
dled,” though there were many
• times when I hung on grimly
waiting for the crunch that
would mean a bent axle or a
shattered sump.
The cattle we saw that after-
noon were, with a few excep-
tions, pleasing to a lover of good
Herefords. Their deep-red
bodies, with white faces, white
bellies and touches of white on
the flanks, and the general tend-
ency to down-curving horns
showed good breeding. They
were in good condition, and they
rarely showed fear of us, even
when Carson careered around a
mob in the rattling tilly.
Buckley’s Yards, Carson told
me as we hurtled along, had
been named after the contractor
who built them. The Brigalow
Yards had been so named
because they were shaded by
brigalow-trees and situated close
to some brigalow scrub. He was
in an expansive mood, proud to
be showing a visitor the improve-
ments to his property, a little
pleased also, I felt, at this oppor-
tunity of exhibiting his amazing
driving-ability.
“How many men do you keep
on permanently?” I asked.
“Only one.” He swerved
violently around an ironbark
branch that lay across the track.
“I’ve had him for years. A good
man. Knows the run backwards.
And there’s old Dan, the rouse-
about, of course. Useless old
fool, but he does the milking and
odd jobs around the house.”
“You get your stockmen in
Dilargo, I suppose?”
“Yes. I’ve fixed up for three
men to start on Monday.”
Deciding it was time we got
down to business I asked, “And
what about me? Do I get this
job?”
“Eh?” he looked surprised at
the question. “Of course. I
thought you’d fixed all that up
with Forster. He told me he was
satisfied you could handle the
job. The best thing will be for
you to go through this muster
with me to get the hang of the
country and the way we work
the cattle. After that you can
take over.”
It struck me that Carson was
remarkably incurious about my
ability. Well, that was his look-
out. As far as I was concerned
the only thing that mattered was
that after a long, lean stretch I
had got myself a job.
T MET Albert Newton, the
trusted permanent - hand,
when we got back to the home-
stead, and I must admit I took
an instant dislike to him. More-
over, I was fairly certain the
feeling was mutual.
He was a heavy man, not
unlike Carson in build, except
that he did not bulge at the
waistline. There was a slight but
definite indication of abo. blood
in his broad features and
creamy-yellow skin.
His dress was that of the
average stockman —big som-
brero-type hat, khaki shirt, tight
grey moleskin trousers and
concertina-top leggings drooping
over the inevitable elastic-side
boots. A pair of enormous spurs
hung low over his boot-heels.
When Carson introduced us,
Albert allowed me to shake an
emotionlessly limp hand while
he stared down at the ground
between us.
“The top fence was down in
three places,” he said, turning
immediately to Carson. “There’s
tracks there where Mitchell’s
cattle ’ave bin cornin’ through. I
picked up six-’ead down on the
creek flat and turned ’em back,
but there’s more in there yet,
be the look of the tracks.”
Carson growled, “Blasted
Mitchell! Never sends a man
around that fence. I’ll tell him
next time I see him it’s time he
did his share of keeping it up.”
“It’s right now, boss,” Albert
assured him, taking out his
makings and hanging a cigarette-
paper on his bottom lip ; “I fixed
it. Mended the breaks and
strained it all up as good as new.
Next time I go up there I’ll take
a bar and shovel and put in a
coupla new posts. That’s all it
wants.”
He rolled a slender cigarette,
lit it, and went on with a detailed
account of his day’s activities.
I went off to my room to
unpack. For the moment
Albert’s reports were no concern
of mine. And, lest there should
be any chance of me thinking
otherwise, he had deliberately
turned his broad back to me.
I went around the back way,
and almost stumbled over an old
man. He was kneeling on the
path beside a cabbage-bed,
gathering a few weeds into his
hat, and when I spoke to him
he leaped with amazing agility to
his feet, spilled all the weeds
from his hat and flapped his
hands in obvious agitation.
“Sorry if I startled you,” I
apologised.
The wild, almost terrified look
faded from his eyes, and he
smiled. “That’s all right,
mister,” he said. “I thought for
a minute you was ’lm.”
I got no chance to ask who
the terrible ’lm was, for he
rammed the weeds back into his
hat and limped off, leaving me
with the impression of a frail
little old man, slightly eccentric
and very lame in one leg.
I learned a. little more about
him when, as we sat talking on
the veranda after dinner that
evening, I casually mentioned
that I seemed to have startled
an old chap who was weeding
a cabbage-bed.
“What,” Carson almost
bellowed, “was that bloody old
fool messing about in that bed
of young cabbages near the
gate? I’ll wring his blasted neck
if I catch him near them again.”
“Now, Joseph,” Mrs. Carson
pacified. “I’m sure Dan was
only weeding. He does try so
hard to be helpful.”
“Helpful!” Carson snarled.
“I’ll help him over the fence with
a boot in the backside if I catch
him near those young plants
again.”
His canvas squatter’s-chair
creaked in sympathy as he
turned to me.
“Blasted old galah pulled up
half a bed of young cabbages
last time I planted them out.
He’s always doing that sort of
thing. And no one can convince
me he doesn’t do it on purpose.
He’s not mad. Just plain vindic-
tive, that’s what he is. Like a
blasted cockatoo. Sits on the
fence with his head on one side
watching you, and then when
your back’s turned he hops down
and pulls the whole lot up.”
“Now, Joseph.” It was not a
nagging reproach. Mrs. Carson
never nagged, never became
flustered by her husband’s out-
bursts. There was an amused
tolerance in her tone, just the
merest hint of quiet laughter.
Though she rarely shortened
his name to Joe, she was
obviously fond of him. She also
knew how to handle him, as her
next remark proved.
“Do you think those clouds
in the south mean anything,
dear?” she asked.
The question struck me as
being a very clumsy attempt to
draw the conversation away
from what was obviously an
irritating subject. However, it
worked. There was a metallic
clatter as Carson shifted his
dentures with an expert tongue.
“A bit early to say yet,” he
answered. “They could build
up into a storm in a day or two,
though I hardly think so. It’s
a little early in the year for
storms, though I remember once
back in ’ninety-seven or it
might have been ’ninety-six . ,
The canvas of his chair
creaked as he settled back
comfortably and launched
forth on his favorite topic.
I was soon to learn that any-
thing could start him on it, and
nothing, short of walking off and
leaving him, could divert him
from it once he got properly
going. If any layman could be
said to be an authority on the
weather, then Carson certainly
was. He kept a meticulous
diary, and in it each night he
recorded every change of wind,
every passing cloud and every
drop of rain. Of course, he also
noted-down what work had been
done during the day, but he
scrawled that hurriedly. His
notes on the weather were
entered in a painstaking, loving
hand.
At ten-o’clock that night,
when his wife interrupted to
remark that it was time we all
went to bed, he was still
rambling on about the weather.
Murmuring something about her
bread—she did all the cooking
—Mrs. Carson went off to the
kitchen.
Carson hoisted himself noisily
out of his chair, helped himself
to a drink from the waterbag
hanging under the eaves, and
walked out into the garden.
Except when he was camped-
out it was a routine he followed
every night of his life.
Out there he relieved himself,
turning in a wide arc as he did
so in order that he might
examine the entire star-spattered
sky for unusual signs.
Both objects achieved, he went
to his office and wrote-up his
diary.
(To be continued next week)
MAGPIES AT NIGHT
The liquid silver woke and stirred,
And all about us was the bird:
A descant in the wondering tree,
Argent, a flare of harmony.
And widely round the staring
moon,
Lay the delusive ring, that soon
Withdrawn from cloud and dark
and light,
Waited and dreamed through the
pale night.
)
Silver and sable, dark and light,
When shall I hear, through the
long night,
The urgent note, the natal word,
The imperious singing of the
Bird?
Q.
DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE.


Salesmen on the Rood
Unconventional Commercials
By IAIN McDOUGALL
Shearers, swaggies,
squatters and other country
gentry largely populate
Australian bush writing,
but why hasn’t someone penned
stories and ballads about the
country travellers?
Not referring to the dry-goods
and other commercials who coast
from town to town along the
bitumen with their sample-cases,
but to the weatherbeaten, road-
wise individuals who travel the
bush representing wool-firms,
veterinary-supply houses, farm-
machinery and agricultural news-
papers.
They form a distinct group, and
have a camaraderie all their own.
They not only call on the most
remote outback hamlets but pay
personal calls to farms and
stations as well; they are the
regular habituds of country
shows, and they all know one
another and stay at the same
hotels, where they can be seen
sharing a bibulous evening meal
or jovial breakfast.
Their job isn’t easy. It means
spending hours each day behind
the wheel of a car that will clock
anything up to 80,000 miles
during the year’s work. It
means knowing, and drinking
with, graziers, cockies and agents
en route. These days, it also
means contending with poor
hotel-service that has added a
real burden to men on the road.
With few exceptions (and how
these are treasured by seasoned
road-merchants!) country pubs
today serve meals that are ulcer-
producers at worst, at best un-
palatable. The casual tourist can
afford to grumble and go his
way, with home-cooked meals
beckoning in the visible distance,
but the professional traveller,
who may be away for a month
or more, must make-do with the
meals he strikes from point to
point.
Apart from attending to his
employer’s business, driving is
the biggest part of a traveller’s
life. The strict commercial
traveller, plying his trade with
the stores in the larger country
towns, is able to stick to the
bitumen and concrete, but the
bush bloke has to cope with
dirt roads in all weather. Today’s
heavy traffic, essential fast speeds
and the considerable mileages
even of main roads that are in
poor repair present real hazards.
Cars are naturally a common
topic of conversation when
travellers forgather. Much-
publicised car-trials produce only
a tithe of the knowledge ex-
pressed at these gatherings.
Such-and-such a make has a
weak front-suspension, another
lets the dust in through ill-fitting
“The A.B.C. now presents ‘Golden Memories ”
door-joints, a third has a
tendency to roll at high speeds,
or when cornering.
N.S.W. highways are another
favorite subject. The Hume
Highway between Gunning and
Yass is crook; the dirt road
from Wagga to Coolamon
needs grading; the new bitumen
from Mangoplah to Holbrook is
a first-class deal; beware of the
new copper patrolling the 30-
mile-limit approaching so-and-
so —he’s sudden death.
There’s every reason for
talking this kind of shop, par-
ticularly when it threshes-out the
weak points of some makes of
cars. Insurance-experts have
calculated that the constant
traveller faces an accident every
30,000 miles, and an accident at
high speed can as easily mean
death as injury.
Driving-fatigue is a problem
these men have to face con-
stantly. Most follow the practice
of frequent stops on long hauls,
and most hate night-driving.
Some of the older and wiser
refuse to drive more than 100
miles in any one day, but in the
country-show season this pre-
caution is frequently impossible,
and likewise when stud stock-
men and agricultural journalists
have to cover a formidable list
of sheep-studs or cattle-studs
for their organisations immedi-
ately before the Sydney and
Melbourne Royal Shows and
Sheep Shows.
Shows aren’t all agony, how-
ever. At country fixtures old
friends get together and com-
pare notes, usually over a few
beers in some firm’s tent during
the day, in the pubs at night.
The breadth of the life they live
is too vast for the trade-
rivalries that exist amongst city
and town salesmen, and it
is very exceptional for a man
to speak ill of a contemporary.
The game produces its kings
and strong personalities, of
course, but in the social rather
than the competitive sense.
There was a traveller for sheep-
dip, retired now, whose cavalry
leggings, florid face and broad-
brimmed hat were a rallying-
point for cronies on show-
grounds in every Australian
State. The stud-stock representa-
tive of a wool-firm and a
Riverina agricultural journalist
also wear headgear that makes
them easily identifiable, even in
the dense crowds that pack the
beer-marquees at show-time.
Highlight of the year for these
people is Sydney’s Royal Show.
They’re all there for that. Mates
who may have missed one
another at country fixtures, or
whose territories have been
changed, meet at least once a
year on Sydney Showground.
Until the rush and bustle begin
to pall it is a happy period of
reunion for men who have spent
the greater part of the year
traversing the inland.
Before the Show ends, however,
they are keen to shake the city
off and head back across the
mountains. The crowds get on
their nerves, and the city head-
office staff seem fatuous and
incapable. With the end of the
beef-cattle sales their country
clients disappear from the Show-
ground, and are replaced by
hordes of city rubbernecks.
The “Smoke,” as Sydney is
universally known, begins to
grow wearisome and dull, and
in their minds appear visions of
the country along the Macquarie,
the Lachlan or the ’Bidgee.
A final conference with the
boss, and their cars head west,
south and north, and hearts are
somewhat lighter as they press
back to the bush. There's a
sigh of relief in city offices, too,
as the disorganised staffs get
back to work without the con-
stant and disconcerting interrup-
tions of the men from the road.
It's a Tooth-preserver
Yet Dentists Favor Fluorine!
By ROY THEODORE
THIS year may see fluorine
go into the water of some
Queensland communities.
It won’t be the fault of
dentists if it doesn’t. Their
labors through the Queensland
branch of the Australian Dental
Association have been directed
at gaining State Health Depart-
ment approval of the principle.
The department arranged
independent research —and an
entirely favorable report resulted.
Though something like 40-
million of the world’s people are
now drinking it in their town-
supplies, fluorine has had its
opposition in the comparatively
few years since its value in
combating dental caries was
realised.
That discovery was almost
accidental: at least, it was not
what was being sought. U.S.
researchers, assembling data on
the bad mottling of teeth in
some communities, found that
water-supplies of all these
centres had a high natural con-
tent of fluorine, and later noted
that the incidence of teeth-decay
in the areas was remarkably low.
The saltlike element flourine
was tabbed responsible, and
wide-scale experiments, embrac-
ing towns in threes —one without
a fluorinated supply, one with
a naturally fluorinated supply
and another with an artificially
fluorinated supply—proved that
it cut decay by from 33 per cent,
to 60 per cent, and over in
children’s still-forming teeth,
with most figures tending toward
the higher percentages.
The mottling occurred at con-
centrations around eight-parts
fluorine per million-parts water ;
the desirable concentration was
fixed at one-part per million.
Its use has spread rapidly in
the past five years, and among
health-bodies whose approval it
has won are the British,
American and Canadian medical
associations, the three countries’
dental associations and those of
Australia and N.Z., and Aus-
tralia’s National Health Council.
The most ambitious use near
at hand is in the city of Hast-
ings (N.Z.), where fluorination
began in 1953 and is serving as
a pilot-scheme for the whole of
the Dominion. Beaconsfield
(Tas.) has also adopted it, but
Hastings affords the best oppor-
tunity to study the opposition
to it —similar to that aroused in
most countries embarking on
fluorination.
Opposition has been virile, and
based largely on two grounds-:
Fluorine is a poison, and
fluorination is mass-medication,
which, in principle, is undemo-
cratic.
The opposition is layman-led
(worth note that no medical
group whatever has opposed
fluorine), and it might seem
strange in a country that leads
the world in dental decay (Aus-
tralia is high up, too) and
where “False-teeth at forty”
has become almost an axiom.
It is true that fluorine is a
poison ; but we live in a world
of poisons. We use sulphur-
dioxide to preserve some of our
foodstuffs. We put arsenic in
our beer. Common salt in suffi-
cient quantities is a poison.
Fluorine is in the same class.
Someone has worked out —and
the figures are accepted—that
it would take something like
217,000 pints of water an hour
for a person to reach the
poisonous dosage.
Fluorine is not a cumulative
poison, nor can anyone be
sensitive to fluorinated water.
It cannot damage the heart, bone
or liver; cannot aggravate exist-
ing troubles in those regions;
and is colorless, odorless and
tasteless.
On the other ground of
opposition, advocates point out
—and the point is made by town
authorities wherever fluorine is
considered —that a big majority
must favor it before it can be
used. Approach for fluorination
must come from the town. It is
not something thrust on the
town. And that, surely, is
democracy the majority
deciding?
It is on record that in the
earlier U.S. experimentation
some towns which were being
used as controls, and where no
fluorine was being added to the
water, objected strenuously to
missing-out on a dental advan-
tage.
Australian dentists themselves
emphasise that their interest is
to assemble all the facts there
are on fluorine, give their own
view that it is particularly
desirable, and then let people
make up their own minds. Their
attitude is: “It would be against
our own ethics to withhold any
dental advantage, but we are
not salesmen; therefore, our
stand is that we are fully behind
fluorine, but you must go and
get it for yourselves.”
A few dentists have been
using fluorine in one form for
some time now —painting a com-
pound on to children’s teeth.
It is a slow, expensive way.
It might be possible to give
fluorine in tablet-form—it has
been tried —but there are few
advocates, for a simple reason.
Fluorination of water is fully
documented ; all eventualities are
known —they are not with any
other method.
To the more human query of
why dentists should advocate
something that would seem a
threat to their livelihood there
is a simple answer. In Australia,
at least, dentists are so far behind
the appalling rate of dental
disease that they can never hope
to catch-up, nor to treat more
than a percentage of those need-
ing work done. Fluorine would
help them get somewhere near
keeping abreast, and though
fluorine cuts the heart out of
children’s dental bills, there
would still be no dentists on the
breadline.
The cost of fluorine? Some-
thing like 3s. a household. Or,
comparatively, the price of one
filling, spread over seven years.
“Where would y' like t' go, Strangler — ringsides ,
fifteen-bobs or seven-and-sixpennies?”


a
/
x\V
VftNEv
X®
m
J
MB
Times Have
changed- so has
This new label distinguishes
NEW K.B.
K.B. has always been good—but now with
,this new brew it is even better. Buy it
try it * . . you’ll like it.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
.vM.'.*"'** Aiouud 8* .V.
■tooth A ' coiiwno
KB.lbt.lf
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Ridden with more restraint
over the first mile than he was at
Flemington, Bold Flare ran
away from the weak field over
the last few furlongs in the
Moonee Valley Steeple on Satur-
day, Vasil riding him out. He
is not likely to be displaced as
G.N. Steeple favorite, unless
Allard, say, wins more convinc-
ingly than he did at Flemington.
There was no Hurdle on the
Valley programme, an inexcus-
able omission in the jumping-
season, and the Oak Hunt
Steeplechase surprisingly was
given pride of place in a pro-
gramme of eight events. Selsdon,
the equal-topweight and winner,
isn’t even to run in the G.N.
Steeple; hunt-steeples belong to
mid-week programmes.
The fillies were too good for
the colts in both divisions of the
Valley’s Inverness Handicap,
carrying top weights and ahead
at the right end of the 10-
furlongs. Janata, the Sydney
filly, hung on courageously to
beat Manton and Carbon Sure.
Lady Chloe, the other division
winner, was untroubled to win.
She was reckoned the best filly
in Victoria last season, but did
not train on in the spring.
• • • «.
Most impressive flat winners
at the Valley were Arab’s Choice
and Frodlaw. Arab’s Choice
spreadeagled the field in the first
division of the Arundel Handi-
cap, winning by six lengths with
Williamson sitting against him.
How he missed a place at
Flemington is puzzling, but aside
from that run he has continued
to improve at each of his fort-
nightly appearances. He is, with-
out doubt, a brilliant colt.
Frodlaw, a boom horse earlier
this season, now seems solider,
and took the Springbank sprint
nicely. He had been most
unlucky at Flemington, meeting
interference one day and striking
Swynphilos on the other.
Swynphilos is to tackle the
Doomben Ten Thousand, and
how good he is can only be
guessed. Whenever his trainer
can get him to his peak, he
wins.
Three Sydney gallopers —
Criollo, Cragsley and Kingster —
are to be taken north for the
Ten Thousand (July 7) as a
result of their Warwick Farm
performances last Saturday,
when Criollo, per heady riding
by J. O’Sullivan, downed hot
favorite Cragsley.
Kingster’s fourth to Criollo
was particularly promising. He
was 10th in a field of 18 round-
ing the home-turn, where
speedster Star Realm was several
lengths clear. Star Realm, how-
ever, stopped almost to a walk.
From a Doomben viewpoint,
Kingster’s display seemed best
of the lot.
Kingster was on the burly side,
as was Star Realm. Top-class
sprinters, they were resuming
after a spell. Kingster drops
from the 9.3 he carried to 8.7 in
the Ten Thousand; Star Realm
comes down from 8.12 to 8.2.
Unless Star Realm does better at
his next start, or shows sharp
track - improvement, he will
remain in Sydney. In any case,
he’s not a good horse at seven
furlongs. Kingster won the last
V.R.C. Newmarket with 8.8, so
he’s favorably placed at Doom-
ben with lib. less.
Of the other Doomben aspir-
ants in the Warwick Farm event,
Criollo doesn’t appeal strongly
at seven furlongs, despite his
consistent form at six (he has
won at four of his last half-
dozen starts). Cragsley could be
a show with 7.8. Still, he ran
poorly in the Doomben event
last winter, when he started
second-favorite.
A feature of the racing at
Warwick Farm was the clever
horsemanship of J. O’Sullivan,
who in recent months has shown
marked consistency. O’Sullivan’s
most notable effort was winning
the 1933 Melbourne Cup on
Hall Mark as an apprentice. His
performance on Criollo was a
gem. He won the race at the
home-turn, where he shot
Criollo to a lead of two lengths,
which Cragsley was unable to
bridge, though he just missed
out. O’Sullivan had an easier
winning ride on favorite Nina
Ricci in the Silverdale Handicap,
for two-year-old fillies.
When Advocate is in a top
galloping mood —he doesn’t
seem to make it a regular habit
—he can beat most fields, and
last Saturday was one of those
days when he acts in keeping
with his brilliant trackwork. The
stable engaged A. Ward to ride
the good-looking bay (raced by
Mrs. Denis Allen), and Ward
had an easy task, Advocate win-
ning the Fraser Handicap at the
Farm by several lengths, his first
success in about six months. The
1952 Victoria Derby winner will
be a seven-year-old on August 1,
and ageing entires almost invari-
ably present a problem for
trainers.
Krubi gave early promise
when placed in two-year-old
races, but it wasn’t until Satur-
day at Warwick Farm that she
won her first race, the Lans-
downe Maiden Seven, in which
she was piloted by stable appren-
tice Jim Angus—his first winning
ride. The midget horseman went
through an opening in the
straight close to the rails, most
likely surprising leading jockey
J. Thompson, who looked all
set for a win on the favorite,
Persian Miss. It was a game
piece of riding by Angus, and the
kid made it a day when, two
races later, he won the Novice
on outsider Conservative. Krubi
—by Star Kingdom (imp.) from
New Flower by Nuffield —is a
half-sister to Alister (A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derbies).
Conservative has so far only
won three races of minor import-
ance—the latest at 10i furlongs—
but connections think the six-
year-old Russia gelding is good
enough to have a show in the
Doomben Cup, in which he's
down on the limit, 7st. Young
Jim Angus, who’s apprenticed to
Randwick trainer Jack Mitchell,
has been offered the mount. He's
a promising lad.
Two-year-old New Spec was
having his first start on a Sydney
track when he led practically all
the way to win the Warwick
Farm Casula Handicap for colts
and geldings. The brilliant
Newtown Wonder youngster had
finished third at Kembla on April
24 and had won at Hawkesbury
on May 9. He is raced by Mrs.
W. R. Porter, whose husband
races the speedy Teranyan, a
half-brother to New Spec
(Teranyan was narrowly beaten
by Knave in the Stradbroke).
Connaught was an interesting
Brisbane winner on Saturday,
when Doomben staged races in
which candidates for the club’s
Ten Thousand and Cup were
among the winners. Connaught
won the first leg of the main
double the Flying while
Sydney-trained Prince Cortauld
took the June Handicap (13-
mile). Connaught won the
Epsom two years ago for Sir
Sydney Snow and A. C. Lewis.
He was subsequently sold to
Brisbane ; he won at Doomben
for owner-trainer A. Strong.
Prince Cortauld won
Doomben’s June Handicap
despite the fact that Sellwood,
near the winning-post, tempor-
arily lost control of the reins.
Prince Cortauld scored narrowly
from Malkuri and Decisive. The
distance was a furlong shorter
than that of the Doomben Cup,
but in the Cup he has 9.3, or
41b. less than he carried on
Saturday.
Decisive’s third to Prince
Cortauld suggested a definite
Cup chance. He was a long way
from the leader at the home-
turn, but was little more than a
length behind at the finish. He
carried 8.4, and also drops 41'b.
in the Cup.
Clarence River J.C.’s Grafton
Cup meeting is the main N.S.W.
mid-winter country attraction
and always draws a big crowd
of Sydney visitors, as well as
others from northern sporting
centres and from Brisbane.
Entries will be received by secre-
tary Miss Kathleen O’Mara on
Monday next for the £4OO
Ramornie Handicap (6 furlongs ;
July 18), and the £1250 Cup, to
which is added an 80gns. trophy
(13 mile and 100yds.; July 19).
Nominations for the minor
events on the first two days will
close on July 9. Total prize-
money is £5651 for the Grafton
district round of fixtures from
June 30 till July 28, and liberal
freight-allowances are made for
horses. Also, there’s a special
flying-boat service from Sydney
for the main Grafton double.
Leading after the first 45 holes
in the U.S. Open Peter Thomson
crashed over the last 18, to finish
equal-fourth. Outright winner
was Dr. Cary Middlecoff, with a
72-hole aggregate ctf 281 (four-
up on Thomson). jVeteran Ben
Hogan made a valiant bid to
win his fifth U.S. Open, finishing
equal-second (on 28£2) with Julius
Boros.
* * *
The three-day teams-event of
the Olympic equessLrian-games at
Stockholm was wcei on points by
Britain ; Australia, never before
a starter in the equestrian com-
petitions, finished a very
creditable fourth.
*1 *
While the V.F?.L. was wallop-
ing a weakened V.F.A. to the
tune of 21.17-3*.5 at the Aus-
tralian Rules carnival in Perth,
the first half of .the V.F.L.’s split
10th round was played in Mel-
bourne. Footscray, with greater
physical strength and so winning
in rucks and in. the air, and with
an improved attack, stoushed
Geelong, 13.1&10.8; St. Kilda,
slightly the better team all round,
was unlucky to be beaten by
Collingwood, ,which left its kick-
ing boots at hpme, by a one-goal
margin (’Wood, 8.21-9.9); and
Richmond, well behind at half-
time, recovered to beat North,
12.11-10.13.
* * *
Still heading Sydney’s Rugby
Union tables Randwick held on
long enough to defeat University
16-13, in a. ibrilliant and exciting
game. Rated wick led 16-5 at
half-time, faut ’Varsity, taking
charge, kqpt up a continual
battering in the second half. In
another exciting contest North
beat Manly 6-5, holding its one-
point advaotage for most of the
game. Gordon overran Parra-
matta 39-9, East accounted for
Eastwood 9-0, and Drummoyne
beat St. George 11-6 in a torrid
affair in which the tempers of
some of the Saints were not
always angelic.
* * *
The last two Tests played at
Trent Bridge, Nottingham, have
been drawn games, because rain
cut down play both times. And
both times the result was a moral
win for, England. In the Trent
Bridge Test previous to these
two, in 1948, there was an actual
win—to Australia, comfortably,
by eight wickets.
The luck of the game! Peter
Richardson, if without it, might
have been out for 7 (if run-out
in that mix-up with Cowdrey in
mid-wicket) and a duck (if Burge
had held the catch off Miller).
Instead he made 8l and 73. With
his undoubted class, however,
the selectors would probably
have kept him in the side even
had he failed twice—though it
may be recalled that May, after
one failure in the semi-dark in
the 1953 Test at Trent Bridge,
was then omitted till the fifth
Test.
Talking about luck, in 1948
English opener Washbrook had
a couple of, for him, very lucky
let-offs. In his first five innings
of the series he had made 6,1, 8,
37 and 11; failure in the second
innings of the third Test would
have meant Out. Instead he
made 85 not-out, but was
dropped three times, a couple
early in the piece. Retained for
the fourth Test, he made 143 and
65. (Injury kept him out of the
fifth.)
* * *
The first Ampol car-reliability
trial starts from Bondi Beach on
Sunday, July 15, and finishes
back there on July 29. The route
is from Sydney to Canberra,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Alice
Springs, Mt. Isa, Cairns, Bris-
bane, and back to Sydney. In
the 14 days of the trial, rest-
periods add-up to more than
seven days. With prizemoney of
nearly £14,000, over 100 have
entered; they include 1953
Redex-trial winner Ken Tubman
and 1954 Redex-winner Jack
Murray, as well as such others
as Jack Davey and leading trials-
drivers Peter Antill, “Duck”
Anderson and Eric Nelson.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
You cun earn
£s's'-%
per annum
IN THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
UNCONDITIONALI Y GUARANTEED
BY THE NSW. GOVERNMENT!
• CHOICE OF 3 terms. You can invest for 7, 10 or 20 years and
earn £5/5/- per cent every year.
• double security. The Loan is secured on the Board’s income
and the State Government guarantees principal and interest.
• HALF-YEARLY INTEREST may be credited direct to your bank account.
• FREE OF EXCHANGE. Subscriptions, interest and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. Superannuation, Provident, Medical Benefit,
Church, Club and other Trust Funds can also earn 5i per cent. The
Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
• instalments accepted. Either the full amount or a 10 per cent
deposit may be lodged. You have until 15th September, 1956, to
complete instalment payments. £5O is the minimum investment.
• INVESTMENT takes only minutes. Call at any Commonwealth
Trading Bank. You can also apply through a Stockbroker or at
the Sydney Water Board Office.
DECIDE TODAY TO SECURE
YOUR GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED 5'A%!
Issued at par, Loan No. 150 will close not later than 25th June, 1956.
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord and Minnett, Sydney.
,WBL4SA-S*
"Home Saturday"
By J. C. SHELLEY
CROOKED MICK reduced
the power of the magnets
on his boot-soles, walked
across the steel deck of
Outer Space-station One, and
peered! over the side after turning
the power on again.
Fivo-hundred-odd miles down
Earth spun slowly in space.
Across the face of Europe the
whiteness of sunshine was like
the blaze of a huge spotlight,
and where the shadow lay, north
and south, was night. The
intense blue Pacific and the
Americas were emerging slowly
from the shadow of night. The
way earth crept slowly from
under the shadow was always a
fascination to Mick. “Just like
a train coming out of a tunnel,”
he reckoned.
Sometimes he’d Stand and
watch Australia, an insignificant
dot, gradually creep through its
quota of sunshine, and he’d try
and pick out Speewah. But of
course that was impossible from
away up here where it was ever-
lasting night, and where even
the stars had no glitter though
they seemed to hang right above
your head.
Mick was suffering a bit from
homesickness. He was helping
to build Space-station One and
had been up here six months. It
seemed like six years. “This
blooming everlasting night,”
he’d grouch. “It’s dark when a
bloke goes to bed and it’s the
same when you get up and it’s
still dark in the middle of the
day. There’s no sunset and
there’s no dawn and all a man
can see is stars that ain’t got a
twinkle and a globe turning
round and round like a flaming
neon-sign.”
He looked down at Australia
beginning to lighten-up under
the sun and thought of Speewah
and wondered if it had rained
out that way yet. Not that that
mattered much. Wet or fine,
there was always plenty of beer
to be had at Slab-faced Joe’s
shanty. The thought of beer
made him very dry in the throat.
A half-dozen schooners with
Sceptical Jim and the others
would be good-oh just at the
moment.
He mightn’t have felt so home-
sick if Darky had been around.
But they had said there was no
space-suit for dogs available, so
Sceptical Jim had had to come
all the way to Woomera to take
the dog back to Speewah. “I’ll
only be away a year to give them
a hand to build this space-
station,” Mick had said at part-
ing, and he kissed Gentle Annie
a bit selfconsciously, shook Jim’s
hand and patted Darky on the
head, saying, “Keep your tail up,
mate ; I’ll be back soon.”
And the dog had said, “0.K.,
pal, I’ll think of you every time
I’m getting outside a schooner at
Joe’s.”
Mick’s throat pursed-up with
the thought. All those coots’d
be in Joe’s right this minute try-
ing to find the bottom of the
current keg. It was a toss-up,
really, whether Mick pined for
Australian sunshine or Joe’s
beer.
A|OROSELY Mick walked
across the space - station
street. The space-suit that he
wore fitted his big frame well,
if rather accentuating his bow-
legs that came from practically
being born in the saddle.
And it had taken him a long
while to get used to the fact that
he didn’t wear elastic-sided boots
with dragging spurs these days.
Instead he wore boots with
magnets in their soles. The
magnets were energised through
a rheostat from a battery on his
back under the oxygen-cylinder.
By varying the power in the
magnets people could walk
about the station street or stay
anchored to one spot instead of
drifting slowly away into the
void.
Going down the stairs through
the various “locks,” Mick pre-
sently came to the control-room.
It was a queer place, he
reckoned. There were so many
knobs and dials and meters
plastered about the walls that it
took a Calathumpian lawyer to
know what he was doing.
In the forward end of the
room half-a-dozen men were
intent before the radar-screen.
They had been like that for the
last 24 hours and the floor was
deep in paper where they had
cast their calculations in disgust.
Mick, now in the pressurised
cabin of the space-station, took
off his helmet, rolled a cigarette,
lit a match by smartly scraping
it on the backside of his space-
suit and approached the intent
watchers. They were talking in
a jargon which, presumably, they
understood. The cause of their
concern, Mick well knew, was a
meteorite. In Crooked Mick’s
own words, this bit of red-hot
metal cast off by the sun was
whizzing round the sky and
gradually getting closer to the
earth. But the trouble was that
every time it came swooping
round it was so much closer to
Space-station One, and the pro-
fessor had worked it out that
pretty soon it was going to
collide with them and blast them
to Kingdom-come.
It was a worrying time. Even
Mick could concede that much.
It was a hell of a long way to
fall down to earth; and the
globe looking so small a man’s
luck’d have to be right in to
land on it.
On the other hand they had
put a lot of tough work into the
building of this space-station. It
was going to be a crying shame
if they lost it now. He could
feel sorry for the Professor.
Mick peered at the hurtling
meteorite over the shoulders of
the technicians. On the radar-
screen it showed as a racing,
dull, red ball.
It took a bit of getting used
to things away out here. Here,
beyond earth’s atmosphere,
brightness did not scintillate.
The stars did not twinkle, a
cigarette would not glow, and
the flame from the jets of the
rockets that came up from
Woomera with the rations did
not roar and burn brilliantly as
they did on earth. And so,
watching this dull-red ball on
the radar-screen, or outside as it
swept by, you were inclined to
think it effeminate. There was
no haze or sparkle about it. It
was a very dull-looking heat.
But its threat and its power
were not to be miscalculated. It
could probably do as much
damage as two powerful trains
meeting head-on at 50-miles-an-
hour. It possibly could do more
damage. No one, as yet, had
had experience with a head-on
collision in the void. Professor
Delephant, who was the big
noise in Space-station One, was
far from optimistic.
“How we doing?” Mick
addressed them, watching the
radar-screen. Suddenly the dull-
red ball disappeared. It had
passed out of the curve of track-
ing and was now hurtling along
the other side of—well, the other
side of whatever lay between the
station and it. One of the
technicians wound the radar-
mast round in the opposite direc-
tion and they waited for the ball
to appear again.
o Continued on page 30)
THE OPEN-CUT, MORWELL
Rain at the world’s end; a squat black
Compressor squats in the yellow mud.
Runnels and curses of water blur the road
For all that trucks wash the slow porridge back,
En route for the Cut. Keep left here and avoid
That lurching lean-to propped beside the track.
The lurching lean-to of eternity—
These fibro skies and angled slats of rain—
Shadows the Cut all roads are sucking down
Towards. Below and calf-deep in a sea
Of brown-coal slush, men shrug and curse again.
The sky falls round our heads incessantly.
Around our fretful heads without relief
The world falls down; communications cry
Its imminent doom, the tottering, the day
Of Armageddon, black with headline grief;
And yet the coal-trains still run amiably
Into the Open Cut, and dark green leaf
Beside the yawning Cut is full again—
On this one bush the tide of ’dozers spared.
Beyond the black compressor as I peered
Two days back, or two weeks, there seemed no pain
Could shake this last green courage, which appeared
Sun in the heart, when all the world was rain.
VICTORIA.
Chris Wallace-Crabbe.


I.A.C
ANNOUNCES
It will shortly file and issue a
Prospectus for an issue at par of
currencies from 3 months
to 20 years at your option,
INTEREST CURRENCY
7% 5 to 20 years
6|% 4 years
6% 3 years
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
6|% per annum (compounded) 4to 20 years
Interest automatically re-invested annually —
principal more than DOUBLES in II years.
EXISTING DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
will automatically receive, as from Ist July, 1956, the
increased rate of Interest applicable to the unexpired
term of their Debenture Stock holding.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Established over 25 years
Assets exceed £40,000,000
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
56.3.36
W
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
71
kl
2
6#
Requests for a prospectus ,
when available, may be made
to
MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
E. S. & A. BANK LIMITED
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPT-
ANCE CORPORATION
LTD.
LONG
TERM
SHORT
TERM
CUMULATIVE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K.-AUSTRALIAN TRADE
"DRITISH press-comment on
trade-relations between
Australia and the U.K.:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“First, there is a legitimate con-
flict of interest to be reconciled.
The United Kingdom, with its
world-wide trade, has a vested
interest in lowering tariffs and
reducing discrimination. On the
other hand, Australia’s depend-
ence on wheat and wool makes
the search for markets for these
two commodities paramount.
“Secondly, the limits within
which the British Government
can move are fixed for all prac-
tical purposes. New bulk-
purchase agreements would bf
politically impossible: on the
other side, any disguised prefer-
ence would be contrary to our
international obligations.
“Thirdly, the problem is not
accidental. With a stationary
population, the United Kingdom
market for wheat and wool can-
not, in the nature of things, be
an expanding one. But Aus-
i alian industrial development,
Wcked by a rising population,
a rising demand for
iMports of all kinds.
“This, indeed, points the way
to tile only solution: an increase
in capital investment from the
United Kingdom to close the
trade-gap from one side; a
diversification of Australian ex-
ports to close it from the other.
It also throws into relief the real
difficulties. The United King-
dom will have to overcome its
shortage of capital. Australia
will have to control its high (and
protected) industrial costs.
Recognition of responsibility on
both sides would be the first step
forward.”
* # *
London “ Investors’ Chronicle”:
“Australia’s concern at her
I fiance -of - trade position is
1 nderstandable—exports are still
ow, and it is reported that the
government is considering even
further import-cuts to check a
repetition of last year’s alarming
drain on the reserves. But it is
doubtful whether reversion to a
Protectionist policy would help
the U.K., the sterling area, or
even, in the long run, Australia
herself. The U.K. is certainly
not buying American wheat at
‘dumping prices’—indeed, it is
our [Britain’s] contention that
the price of wheat is still too
high. It is true that the U.K. is
perennially short of dollars, but
that is no reason for us to buy
more Australian wheat at even
higher prices merely because we
can pay for it in sterling.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
Australians have been dis-
gruntled for a long time past. The
preferences which they grant for .
goods from Britain are now con-
siderably greater in practical
terms than those which Britain
grants in return, and there is no
doubt that this has played a con-
siderable part in making Aus-
tralia the largest market for
British goods.
“But that is not the whole
story. Australia is herself
steadily building-up her manu-
facturing industries inevitably
to the detriment of British ex-
porters—and already a large
proportion of British cars there
are assembled and many of their
parts manufactured in the
country. Though Australia is
the biggest single buyer of
British cars, engineering de-
velopment using skilled immi-
grant labor is bound to make
this to some extent a wasting
asset for Britain.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Under the [Ottawa] agreement,
as it was negotiated, the Aus-
tralians suffer a real injustice.
Many of the most important
preferential advantages they
enjoy in the British market are
on a fixed basis.
“They are not expressed in
the form of percentages, giving
the same degree of preferences
no matter how the product varies
in price. For example, 2s. a
quarter preference on foreign
wheat was an advantage won by
Australia in 1932.
“But wheat stands today at
roughly four times the prices
ruling in 1932. Thus, the tariff
advantage is only about a
quarter of the amount the Aus-
tralians believed they had
gained.”
The same: “Look at the cash
this country [Britain] spends out-
side the Empire. From America
last year Britain took cereals
worth nearly £4B million. The
unreliable Argentine sold us
more than £12,600,000 of cereals.
“The value of cereals from
Australia was under £2O million.
Yet the Australians have a large
surplus of wheat. And they are
our own blood, to be counted on
in peace or war, poverty or
prosperity.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“When all is said and done, it is
hard to see that Australia will be
able to find a way out of her pre-
sent harsh dilemma in a revision
of British trading-policy. After
all, Britain, too, has to work
within an extremely narrow
foreign-exchange budget. The
useful concessions that can be
made to Australia are, in fact,
limited. The really significant
point for Britain is that if the
Australians are determined on a
new bargain on Imperial prefer-
ences, the whole system cover-
ing the rest of the Common-
wealth is likely to be shaken-up
in the process. And' the fear is
that once it starts to be shaken
a large part of it will end-up on
the ground.”
* * *
C. G. Wood, managing-direc-
tor of Hovis, in a letter to
London “Financial Times”:
“There have been many com-
plaints that this country [Britain]
is not buying as much Australian
wheat as before the war, and the
reasons, while only too apparent
to millers here, may not be quite
so obvious in Australia.
“First of all, production of our
home-grown wheat is consider-
ably higher than before the war
and a higher percentage is used
in millers’ grists: secondly, if
the Australian Wheat Board
wish to take advantage of the
goodwill which undoubtedly
exists towards Australian wheat
in this country they must try to
sell their wheat and not wait for
millers and grain-traders to come
and fetch it.
“Since free trading in Aus-
tralian wheat ceased and all
exports became the responsibility
of the Australian Wheat Board
most U.K. millers have found it
very difficult to buy any Aus-
tralian wheat at all. Until very
recently the Wheat Board would
only sell either in full- or half-
cargo quantities, which limited
the number of purchasers here
to the very largest millers only.
Moreover, the time between
purchase and arrival here
[Britain] may be anything up to
three or four months, whereas
competitive wheats can be pur-
chased to arrive in this country
within a considerably shorter
period, which means that there
is far I'vs risk of loss of market-
value o*, the purchasers.
“Most millers would be glad
to have Australian wheat in their
grists if only they could be
assured of regularity of supply
and of being able to buy in
quantities ranging from, say, 50
tons up to 1000 tons at a time, as
was their custom before the war.
“If they wish to cater for the
trade of the U.K. millers the
Australian Wheat Board should
be prepared to take some share
of the risk that previously was
taken by the private shippers, by
taking freight ahead and keeping
up a continual supply of ship-
ments, from which sales could
be made in quantities suitable to
mills of all sizes.”
British Bases
Commenting on Britain’s
difficulties with strategic bases —
accented by the troubles in
Cyprus, Aden, Ceylon and
Singapore London “Daily
Telegraph” notes that “in the
Government’s attitude to Cyprus
and Singapore a new principle is
emerging”:
“We do not argue that the
Cypriots and the citizens of
Singapore are not ripe for self-
government, which we have,
indeed, offered them. We say
without apology that in areas
where vital British strategic and
economic interests are involved,
ihe smaller freedom, which is
- government, cannot be
fdfowed to undermine the larger
tfafedom for which Britain
stands.
“This is what all multi-racial
Powers, however noble their
motives, must say sooner or
later. The ornaments of empire
can be discarded, but the flesh
and bone, the vital bases, must
be retained, unless the Power
concerned is to sink back into
secondary and dependent status.”
This British requirement of
overriding authority—possibly
reinforced by the fact that a
change of government in Ceylon
negated Britain’s defence
arrangements on that island —
has been the stalling-point in
negotiations over Cyprus and
Singapore. “In both these cases,”
London “Observer” notes, “the
root of the trouble has been
neither an unwillingness of the
local majority-forces to recognise
Britain’s strategic interest nor an
unwillingness on Britain’s part
to move towards’ full self-
government” :
“It has been Britain’s insistence
that her strategic interests should
be secured independently of the
future willingness of the local
majority to co-operate. But such
a guarantee could be achieved
only by the kind of permanent
limitations on self-government
that none of the local nationalist
forces will nowadays accept.”
As long as there is no amicable
way out of this impasse it would
seem that Britain is faced with
the uncomfortable problem of
maintaining strategic forces and
installations in the midst of


INSTRUMENTS
to build
Australia’s
future...
m
011 l
m
Instruments and equipment from Esdailes are
playing a big part in building Australia’s future
—including the supply of the major propor-
tion of Surveying and Drafting instruments,
used in the great Snowy River project.
Specialists in the optical field for almost 70
years and leaders in the supply of all types of
Agricultural, Meteorological, Industrial and
Technical Instruments, Esdaile’s have the
“know-how” and the specialised workshops
and staff to supply YOUR most exacting
requirements.
1-i:
m
Illustrated here are but a few of the many items
available: “Sirius” Minor Dumpy Level, Minimum-
Maximum and Wet and Dry bulb Thermometers,
Rain gauge, Slide rule and Drawing and Drafting
instruments and equipment. available is a wide
range of Binoculars, Telescopes, Steel and Metallic
tapes and all necessary instruments for the farmer.
Write or ’phone for full details or advice concerning YOUR
•particular need or problem.
d>
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
53 FLINDERS ST., ADELAIDE. W 2484.
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
NOT LOST—JUST BEWILDERED
hostile local populations. Pos-
sibly, as “Manchester Guardian”
suggests, those populations
might be less hostile if they took
a longer view of their position
in the event of British forces
being withdrawn.
Taking the proposition that
“before long British forces may
have no base between Aden and
Australia,” the “M.G.” com-
ments that “ironically, the relin-
quishment of British bases round
the Indian Ocean is a more
serious matter for the Asian
countries than for Britain”:
“Once the British forces have
gone they are unlikely to come
back. Not even an appeal by
the United Nations —in the
event, for example, of a serious
incursion across the borders of
Burma—would bring substantial
British military help. It could
not, because such help would be
physically impossible.
“If there are no permanent
airfields, maintained with
R.A.F. radar and supplied with
the right grades of fuel and
equipped for rapid servicing of
aircraft, the British could not
operate their Valiant or Vulcan
bombers, their Comet transports,
or more obsolescent aircraft. To
restore abandoned airfields to
operational standards would
take weeks.
“It is often forgotten that the
swift United Nations interven-
tion in Korea was possible only
because the Americans had fully
staffed bases in Japan, not more
than 200 miles away.
“So with the Navy: Mr.
Bandaranaike ought not to
imagine that in a crisis Britain
could put Trincomalee back into
action within a week or two,
nor should Mr. Marshall sup-
pose that Singapore’s naval
station could quickly be taken
out of mothballs.
“The point is important also
for Mr. Nehru, U Nu, Mr.
Sastroamidjojo, and Tengku
Abdel Rahman. In varying
degrees they have shared the
common .Asian desire to see
foreign military forces depart,
and they do not feel in any
serious danger. But one wonders
whether they have grasped the
fact that, once withdrawn, these
forces are unlikely ever to come
back. (Nor can any other
member of the United Nations
offer them effective military
help, once the British bases have
gone.)
“In any case the climate of
opinion is not changing only in
Asia. In Europe and in Britain
there is a growing desire to cut
the military budget, for good
economic reasons. If our troops,
aircraft, and bases are not
wanted on the fringe of Asia,
why pay for them? Certainly
we shall not keep a large reserve
ready in Cyprus or in England
just because some day it might
be wanted again in the Far East.
The cost would be excessive.”
Cyprus
The angry situation in Cyprus
continues to draw all manner
of suggested solutions from the
British press —from London
“Spectator’s” proposal that the
British < Government should
bring Archbishop Makarios
back from exile and open nego-
tiations with him, to London
“Daily Mail’s” assertion that
“it must always be made plain
that Britain stays [in Cyprus].”
A fairly common American
opinion is expressed by C. L.
Sulzberger in “New York Times”
—that the interests of Britain
and its allies, of Greece, of
Turkey and of the Greek and
Turkish populations of Cyprus
would be best reconciled by
making Cyprus a Nato base.
The Cyprus situation itself
is described by London “Time
and Tide” as going “from bad
to worse”:
“Relations between the Greek
and Turkish sections of the
population have deteriorated
markedly under the stimulus of
fear, suspicion and racial and
religious hatred. This unhappy
state of affairs, amounting now
to civil war or something very
near it, can hardly help to
improve relations between the
parent nations; and in Cyprus
itself it is producing—among
officials and security authorities
—those angry, despairing acts
of folly and misjudgment which
subsequently it is not easy
either to excuse or forget.
“Can anyone really claim
much benefit from British rule
in Cyprus now? The battle
against malaria, the battle
against the destructive goat, the
roads, the schools, the freedom
to emigrate to Britain are all
forgotten now and only the
harshnesses are recalled.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds that “it is use-
less now to try to apportion
blame for the present disastrous
situation. But the British public
is getting increasingly anxious,
and asking ‘Where do we go
from here?’
“The whole argument can be
summed-up in the simplest
terms:
“Are the British justified in
holding on to Cyprus—whatever
feeling may have been whipped
up among the Greek Cypriot
population—or are they not?
Does the clamor of a local group
for self-determination automati-
cally justify itself?
“The Government believes
that the British presence in
Cyprus is supremely important
to the welfare of free nations,
and so, in present circumstances,
overrides claims to self-deter-
mination.”
European Defence
A few simple geographical
facts (from Lt.-Col. F. O.
Miksche in London “Time and
Tide”) which condition a good
deal of European thinking on
international politics, “massive
deterrents,” H-bombs and the
like:
“A glance at the map shows
Europe as far more vulnerable
than America, which is pro-
tected in the north by the Arctic
regions and in the east and west
by the width of the Atlantic and
Pacific ocean>. Hostile raiders
can therefore be detected rela-
tively far from the important
target areas.
“The 2000-mile-deep zone of
the Canadian forest- and prairie-
regions, in which there is noth-
ing to bomb, allows incompar-
ably more manoeuvring possi-
bilities than is the case in Europe.
Behind this general defence-
zone stretching from the Arctic
to the Great Lakes, the opera-
tional field of the long-range
fighters acting as a deep filter,
are the great cities and industrial
areas with their local defence
based on a.-a. rockets and a.-a.
artillery.
“Russia’s air strategical situ-
ation is similar. Her nerve-
centres are protected in the
north by the deep unpopulated
Arctic tundra-regions. Bombers
starting from the Middle East
would take hours to reach her
heart. Raiders flying from
Western Europe towards Moscow
would be detected by long-range
radar when crossing the Rhine
and attacked by from
the Oder onwards. From there
more than an hour’s flight would
be necessary before they could
drop their bombs on the centre
of Russia.
“Europe has only a small
surface. Whereas in the case of
the two former the approach is
a matter of several hours, Europe
can count only upon minutes to
get its defence into action.
Furthermore, all that counts as
important lies not in the centre,
but rather on the periphery of
the continent, scarcely 500 miles
from the Iron Curtain. Raiders
starting from the Soviet Zone of
Germany can reach the Ruhr
in 20 minutes, Paris in 45 and
London in 55 minutes.
“Over 80 per cent, of British
industry and over a quarter of
her popuation are contained in
her first 10 major towns. Five
‘small’ Russian bombs of the
Hiroshima type, dropped on
London or Paris from five small
aircraft based somewhere in
Poland, would very probably
cause greater havoc than would
a ‘heavy’ American bomb
launched on Moscow or Lenin-
grad by a stratospheric air-giant.
On balance, the West has more
to lose by strategic air-bombing
than the East.
“According to S.H.A.P.E.’s
calculation, 12 minutes are
needed to appreciate exactly the
raiders’ positions and to issue
orders to fighters and another
10 minutes for climbing and
manoeuvring. During these 20
minutes the enemy aircraft will
have got some 300 miles nearer
their targets.
“Even if we admit that radar
working with a range of 300
miles could be installed in posi-
tions as forward as possible on
this side of the Iron Curtain,
there would be little prospect of
organised intervention by fighters
east of the line Hamburg-
Cologne-Frankfort-Munich.
“Westwards of this line the
interception would, of course,
gradually increase in efficiency,
but, even so, 50 per cent, of the
raiders would probably reach
the London or Paris areas. In
any case, the radar-chain is use-
ful only if solid defences prevent
its overrunning by enemy ground
forces. The present Nato armies
are not capable of fulfilling this
task.”


For a lifetime of savings and lifetime
beauty build your home with
HARDlESTibrolite
(Reg’d. Trade Mark)
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS
mm
m
--
Inside and outside your “Fibrolite”
home represents today’s best building
value. You save on building costs,
maintenance and insurance premiums.
“Fibrolite” homes are quicker and
easier to build; their lasting value
makes “Fibrolite” the perfect building
material for budget builders. It is fire
retardant and white ant and borer
proof resists dampness too! Modern
day decorator colours look their very
best on “Fibrolite”. For interior walls
and ceilings you get beautiful unbroken
colour by covering joints with new
“Anaglypta” Cover Strip.
MTCHEH - lAUN. BA
±1 Hiu
fci BED I
ia'6x n'or
POST THIS COUPON NOW
Take a step nearer that
“Dream Home” on your
own land. Write today
for your FREE and
POST FREE copy of
the “Fibrolite” home
plans booklet.
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Cnr. York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King St.
To JAMES HARDIE & Coy. Pty, Ltd.,
1 Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
| Please send, FREE and POST FREE your illustrated
j booklet containing full information and designs of modern
1 “Fibrolite” Homes.
' NAME Q
| ADDRESS
Please cross square if you would like our representative to
call and advise on your home building problems.
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(. Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
Professor Delephant, short,
thick-set and grey-haired, made
some quick calculations on
paper. “We’ve got exactly
twelve hours, five minutes and
ten-fifths-of-a-second left,” he
said tersely. “Then it’s going to
hit us. Not exactly on the tail,
as it were; but close enough to
wipe this station completely out
of the void.” He put his head
in his hands. “It’s extremely
disheartening ... All this work ;
all this planning and money to
be totally destroyed before we
have an opportunity to push
our experiments further!” He
seemed worried.
“Couldn’t we get over the side
and push the station out of the
way?” Mick suggested.
“Impossible!” Delephant
barked angrily. “Good Lord,
man, don’t you realise there’s
nothing for us to get a purchase
on? Not even a cupful of air!”
He stared moodily at his figures.
“Twelve hours, four minutes and
eight-tenths-of-a-second left. It’s
terrible. I’ve sent word to
Woomera to send up a ferry to
take us off. We’ve got to aban-
don this station to its fate. It’s
breaking my heart to say that.
But it’s got to be. We must be
realistic. We must escape while
there is still time.”
His voice rose sharply. “But
I will return! I will conquer
the void yet!” He looked
around the assembled men.
“I’m open for ideas, gentlemen.
I don’t care how fantastic they
are, I’ll listen. We must save
the station if there is a chance.”
Mick felt strangely stirred. It
was a crook deal all right. A
bloke put his heart and soul into
a thing and then to have it all
mucked-up like this was a bit
on-the-nose. And all these
technical blokes sitting around.
None of them seemed to be any-
ways bright. As a matter of
fact they looked a bit green
round the gills. They could be
sick any old tick of the clock.
“Got any idea how big this
thing is, Prof.?” he asked
laconically.
“Approximately one-hundred-
feet in diameter and travelling
at two-thousand-miles-an-hour,”
Delephant answered.
Mick whistled softly. The
thing was surely hiking. He
went and sat in a chair to think
it out. These technical blokes
were all right up to a point, he
realised, but put ’em out in the
scrub on a horse to wheel a rush
of bullocks and they’d be as
useless as feathers on a frog.
TT wasn’t the audacity of the
A scheme in his head that was
worrying Mick. It was the task
of getting things properly
focused that was making it a
bit hard for a start. Up here
you had to adjust yourself to
new ways and ideas. And these
ways were a bit strange and
liable to get you off-course.
On earth, when you threw
something up into the air it came
down again pretty smartly. Up
here, when you threw something
up into —well, whatever it was —
the thing stayed up there. When
working on the street up topside
you could put up a ladder and
it stood there without the help
of a post. Although in time, if
it wasn’t for the magnets on its
feet, it would move slowly
astern, to be lost eventually in
the void. It was the same thing
with a pencil. If you put it
aside into the —whatever there
was there —it just stayed where
you left it, drifting slowly astern,
but not rising or falling.
At last Mick had it all worked
out in his head and he said to
the Professor, “I’m going to give
that meteorite a burl, boss. You
give me the O.K. to ride herd on
it and I’ll have it out of your
way before you can say Jack
Robinson.”
“Carry on,” Delephant said.
“I’ll make you this promise,
Mick. Save this station, and
I’ll grant you twelve-months’
ground-furlough on full pay
with a pound a week thrown-in
for drinking-money and tax paid
on the lot.”
Mick moistened his lips with
anticipation and reckoned it
was like taking pennies from the
kid’s moneybox. “Just send
Slab-faced Joe a telegram that
I’ll be home Saturday,” he said
with a faraway look in his eye.
ASSEMBLING his assistants
topside, Mick worked
quickly. Three heavy iron
chains, each 1000-feet in length,
were laid out on the street in
curves. The first chain was left
lying on the street; the second
chain was raised 30-feet in the
air ; the third 60-feet, then the
ends of these chains were fixed
to the extremities of an iron
swinglebar 110-feet wide and at
the end of the street three
signalling-lamps were secured.
These lights were controlled by
the operator of the radar and
would give warning of the
meteorite’s approach astern.
“You haven’t got much time
left, Mick.” Professor Dele-
phant was becoming anxious,
scanning his last set of figures.
“Five hours, six minutes and
.0001-seconds, to be precise.”
“It’s a piece of cake, boss,”
Mick said confidently. “Just
send Joe another wire: ‘Be
home Saturday for sure and me
tongue’s hangin’ out.’ ”
Then they wheeled out the
Rocket. She was a pretty ship,
that one ; sleek as a swallow in
flight, with a long tapering snout
like the bill of a swordfish and
reputed to do better than 2000-
miles-an-hour with a good pilot
at her controls. Mick clambered
aboard with a pleasant anticipa-
tory thrill, as when he put his
foot in the stirrup to ride a horse
that had never been ridden
before. The canopy of the cock-
pit clicked shut above his head.
Mick eased back in his seat;
bis feet toyed with the rudder-
bars ; one hand gripped the stick
and the fingers of the other hand
waited on the switch that would
bring the jets to life. His eyes
were glued strictly ahead. The
amber light glowed dully in the
distance. The meteorite had
come up astern and was in the
eye of the radar.
Mick flipped the switch and
the rockets awoke to life in a
solid river of fire down either
side of the plane as a tremendous
weight hit Mick in the centre of
the back, making him gasp with
pain. But he held on grimly,
feeling the machine race along
the street, then up into the void.
From the corner oh his eye he
could see the meteorite slowly
passing him to starboard. He
eased back a little on the
throttles and threw-on starboard-
rudder. The dull-red meteorite
glided swiftly to port across his
bow.
When the meteorite was about
100 miles away on his port-wing,
Mick came round in a long
curve and opened the throttles
wide. The way that plane
responded reminded him nostal-
gically of the best stockhorse
he’d ever ridden Thumbs-
down. At the prick of the spur
in his side Thumbs-down could
cover 50-yards in a stride and
keep it up all day. Mick’s
blood pounded joyfully in his
veins as the speed built up.
He glanced behind him
briefly. The three great chains
on the swinglebar billowed out
behind. They covered an area
60- by 110-feet. He realised
that it was going to take some
pretty skilful driving to engage
that dull-red ball in the toil of
the chains, but he wasn’t
worried. You get worried over
a job, like trying to head a rush
of bullocks in mulga country,
and you end up in hospital or a
six-foot box.
He glanced at the speedo. It
stood at a steady 2010-miles-an-
hour and he was gaining. He
fixed his eyes on the meteorite
rushing towards him. It seemed
to grow like the side of a burn-
ing mountain. He held the
plane dead on-course until the
fierce heat of the meteorite
scorched his eyeballs; then he
heaved back on the stick and the
hot ball disappeared beneath,
Came a fraction of a pause in
time, then a mighty jerk that
almost tore the plane from its
paint as the chains gathered the
meteorite in their toils. Mick
slammed on full throttles and
held his breath, watching the
compass. Her rockets spouting
mighty rivers of flame and
power, the grand little ship
bucketed about the void.
Moments went by like years as
she fought valiantly to wrestle
that meteorite a sufficient
number of degrees aside before
the awful heat melted the
chains.
TTTGHLY satisfied with him-
self, Mick flew back to
Space-station One with the bits
of melted chains trailing from
the swinglebar. And large in his
mind’s eye was a picture of Spee-
wah and Slab-face Joe’s bar. It
would be cool and comfortable
there away from all the heat, and
Darky watching him from the
comparative coolness of the
floor.
Professor Delephant rushed
up excitedly to welcome the
plane in. “A mighty job, Mick!
A mighty job!”
“I must have towed it far
enough, then?” Micked grinned
sheepishly.
“Just!” Delephant was
highly satisfied. “Luckily we
haven’t got the last coat of paint
on the station yet, otherwise,
next time round, that meteorite
would have scraped right along
our side.”
“Did you send Joe that wire
about me being home Satur-
day?” Mick asked anxiously.
“I did, Mick. I sent them as
you requested. And I’ve
already received two replies.
One is from Gentle Annie:
‘Hurry home. Itching to see
you,’ and one from Joe, ‘Out of
beer. Carrier bogged in
Morgan’s soak.’ ”
“That damn’ stretch of road’s
a disgrace to the shire!” Mick
said angrily as he stamped off
dejectedly below-decks.
MAGELLAN
Thou, Fransisco Serrao, thou art immortal.
A conversation scratched on parchment
Issues formal as the lettering, with loop and flourish,
Makes of itself a graceful filigree
Polite in appearance, safe in sentiment. Always
Letters 1 make to write do die in me,
For as the ink gives up
Its moisture and marries skin indelibly
Death stands between us, fearfully between v
Myself as penman and my distant friend.
Always I’ve been
Surprised to find my friends are still alive
When, after pain and woundings suffered by flesh
And spirit, the one I mourn is resurrected.
It is a fact I Friends die, Fransisco.
It is a fault in me;
And a further bitter fault I have no tears.
Sometimes I mock:
"Respected and Respectable Senor . . . What, fellow,
Art thou still kicking? Most Honored Friend,
Surely six months had passed since thy demise!”
Fransisco, hear me; this humor in me,
Truly I despise it. But a letter, Fransisco,
Is conversation changed most dreadfully
From sound, with breath, expression, twinkle of eye,
To a dead thing.
But thou, Fransisco,
Thou art immortal. Though ink dries, though leagues
Of ocean do sunder us, thy voice, thy mouth,
Thy very breath ia warm upon my ear.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


i
&
m ft m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. Lawry,
Manager.
ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
■
mm
: HWWSSS4
ssteiimmsf
mm
<• :?
K.LJ *
WWPIWSR;
S*
• < j
HI
Hi
gS3B
S*«MBi«ii«s*s*s
888
SfS
iff:
ftWJ
K X!
Mr. D. G. Berwick, President of the Wheat and Woolgrowers'
Association of New South Wales, who has been an Ampol
user for 14 years, says— “ For our tractors and farm machinery,
we use Ampol oils and greases exclusively, and l am convinced
that no other lubricant could stand up to the gruelling work so
well. / can sincerely recommend Ampol to tractor users”
Use the best
m •
Australia's own
0
a
fIMPOL
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate • Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFMI2.3^3
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy book of poems on Tumut
identities (by P. O’Halloran ?), printed
by Spencer Groves, of Tumut, about
1902.—6339.
To buy After Many Days, by
Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh.—634o.
To buy Bible Stories for Young
Australians, and Botany for Young
Australians, by Bonwick; also
Catalogue of Snakes in the British
Museum (1893, 1894, 1895), Catalogue
of Lizards in the British Museum
(1887), and Catalogue of Chelonians
in the British Museum (1889), all by
G. A. Boulenger, and, by G.
Bourne (pseud.), “Bourne’s journal
of Landsborough’s expedition from
Carpentaria in search of Burke and
Wills” (Melbourne, 1862). —6341.
Wanted, cake-decorating designs
(from old magazines, etc.). —6342.
Information Sought
How to clean weather-stains from
white marble ?
Marble is a comparatively soft
stone, and if stains have penetrated
its substance it may not be possible
to remove them entirely. First brush
the marble well, then scrub with hot
soapy water; rinse often and quickly
with clean water, so that soapsuds
do not remain in contact very long.
If further treatment is necessary, scrub
with an abrading powder or fine sand,
using water plentifully while working.
Rubbing with chalk moistened with
water is also recommended, particu-
larly as a final treatment.
* * * *
Some books on horsemanship (rid-
ing, breeding, exhibiting, etc.)?
The Art of Breaking In Horses, by
Rod Miller; Salute to the Horse, by
Eric Harding; Introduction to Riding
and Stablecraft, by Major-General
Geoffrey Brooks; The Horse Rampant
and Everybody’s Polo, both by J. J.
Pearce; Learning to Ride and Learn-
ing to Drive Ponies, both by Janet
Holyoke; First Aid Hints for the
Horse Owner, by Lt.-Col. W. E.
Lyon; Horsemanship, by Major-
General Geoffrey Brooks; Horse
Facts, by Major A. J. R. Lamb; and
Riding and Hunting, by Captain
Horace Hayes. An Australian journal
dealing specifically with every phase
of riding and driving horses and
ponies, as well as breeding and
exhibiting, is “Hoofs and Horns,”
Box 101, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
* * * *
How to make rhubarb-wine ?
Wipe rhubarb, but do not skin it.
Cut up, and to every 101 b. pulp, allow
2gals. cold water, 61b. sugar, loz.
isinglass and two lemons. Bruise
rhubarb in a wooden tub with a
mallet to a crushed mass; weigh
again before adding the water. Let
water and pulp stand for 36 hours,
stirring often; then strain-off the
pulp, add sugar and cut-up lemon to
the liquor, stir well, and allow it to
ferment for a week, when fermenta-
tion should subside. Strain into a
cask, and if fermentation takes place
again, strain once more. Put in the
bung loosely for a week or two, then
tighten it. Improves with keeping.
The isinglass is used for clearing the
liquor; it is soaked in some of the
wine, and added to the cask at that
stage. May be bottled after maturing
for a month or two.
* * * *
I am a U.S. citizen and wish to
migrate to Australia. Am 1 eligible to
do so ?
U.S. citizens of European descent
are eligible to enter Australia for
permanent residence provided they are
in sound health, of good character
and have satisfactory means of sup-
port. Persons complying with these
conditions may apply for financial
assistance towards cost of passage to
Australia under the Commonwealth’s
General Assisted Passage Scheme,
which provides a subsidy of £37 10s.
sterling (approx. $105) for each adult
and lower amounts for dependent
children. The Australian Consul-
General in San Francisco will issue
you with forms necessary for an
application under the scheme. As
regards housing when you arrive here,
if you cannot get immediate accom-
modation the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Immigration, Canberra,
A.C.T., will offer temporary residence
in a migrant-centre. Similarly with
employment, the Department of
Labor and National Service will
advise you of opportunities in any
profession or industry in which you
are interested.
* * * *
How does the possession of
properly affect an application for old-
age pension ?
For the purpose of eligibility for
age-pension, “property” does not
include applicant’s home, furniture
and personal effects, surrender-value
(up to £750) of life-insurance policies,
value of reversionary interests or
amount of Commonwealth war-
gratuity. “Property” does include
houses, land, money in a bank,
invested or lent, bonds, stocks, shares,
interest in estates, etc. Income
derived from any item defined as
“property” does not affect pension;
but the value of “property” affects
pension (eligibility ceases with single
persons if net value exceeds £1750,
with married persons if it exceeds
£3500). If it is a house-property in
which the pensioner does not live
the Valuer-General’s valuation is
taken, less any mortgage or charge on
the property.
Brief Answers
D.D.: In the circumstances he can’t
move a resolution H.W.: Write
Social Services Department (Victorian
Headquarters), 118 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l... .M.W.: Write “Hoofs
and Horns,” Box 101, G.P.O.,
Adelaide, S.A Omar (N.Q.): We
have no doubt that your “Australian
Society,” of which you modestly claim
to be “just a laborer in the vanguard,”
is worthy of esteem and emulation;
but we would have a clearer idea of
its aims and of what you want us to
do (we will help and encourage if we
can) if your handwriting were some-
what more decipherable
J.F.G.M.: The original of the por-
trait is in private possession, and
is not for sale... .C.W.: (1) The
articles on the Keyline Plan to which
you refer are by E. O. Schlunke (Jan.
5, 1955) and by P. A. Yeomans (Jan.
26, 1955, and Mar. 23, 1955). (2)
Your request was passed on to “Palo
Alto” A. 8.: Babylonian
cuneiform (or wedge-writing) was
deciphered by the discovery early in
the 19th century of a trilingual inscrip-
tion on a monument of the Persian
King Darius the Great (521-485 b.c.)
at Behistun (Bisutun). The Rosetta
Stone, found in 1799, with inscrip-
tions in Greek and the two ancient
Egyptian writings, enabled the
deciphering of the two last-named
languages.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary .
H.A.8.: “Have you ever seen a
willow?” Frankly, yes... .C. 8.: We
regard rhymed aboriginal legends
with a very wary eye B.McC.:
“Man, they say, is but a pawn.”
Now if you’d only said “Man, they
say, is but a prawn,” we’d have sat
up and taken notice 8.W.: Your
poem about Intelligence dancing with
the lady Education in a ballroom
staggered us P.L.: Do you really
think you should call her “a gold-
fish in a gilded bowl”? R.H.; “O
foot it no further, sweet —sink down
beside me.” Now, if she’s wise, she’ll
foot it for the lick of her life; and
so will the poem E.R.: Very fair,
for a wet day D.G.S.: Glad you
buried that do r g.... H.L.W.:
Cinquains noted with awe E.H.:
Children might like the verses
E.J.H.: They need tightening and
brightening “Penny Wise”: Here’s
a pennyworth then:
I’m sick of all those silly lies
Of Solomon, so called the wise.
He said,
I read,
“Go to the ant, thou sluggard!”
I went, and I was bitten.
B.W.: Our hearts are not so
hard as to exclude
A PENSIONER’S LAMENT.
I’m going back to the mountains, where
the water’s nice and clear,
I’m going to leave the city for they rose
the price of beer,
Eight-ounces for a shilling what an awful
price to pay,
So I’m going back to water to wash my
sins away.
No more/ drinking in the pubs and get-
ting full of beer,
No more “Fill them up again” for a
shilling is too dear;
And I’m going to knock off smoking
which is very hard to do,
Bob Menzies rose the price of that for
extra revenue.
I’m going back to the Queensland bush
where the water’s nice and clean,
Coming through the mountains in a
lovely running stream,
And all the little fishes will have a
stickybeak
When they see me smoking tea-leaves on
the banks of Emu Creek.


DINGO DESTPiM^ON
No. 14 "Oneida" Jump trap
Outstanding efficiency as a dingo
catcher, well established in N.-W.
Queensland for over forty years,
again available as required . . .
Further particulars from—
R. J. MURPHY,
G.P.O. Box 555, Townsville (Q.),
Sole Agent for Australia.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
Os
CM-
STt’
eoHt
«*/,
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, .i-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable anc' wholesome lick.
Ok- €at-(k.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GJ>O See 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • GJ>.O.
Bo> 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 7SBK, BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE CALUDE AND DAWSON VALLEYS
■''VO Queenslanders with
something to add to
R. H. Conquest’s comments
(B. 23/5/’56) on the Callide and
Dawson Valleys:
■ rtgricola”: R. H. C. is not
wholly correct when he says that
farmers cannot make a living
solely from cotton or dairying
in the Queensland area he refers
to. They are making a good
living from dairying, but there
are hardly any now depending
upon cotton alone.
Cotton was instrumental in
developing Queensland’s Callide
and Dawson Valleys. After the
brigalow had been felled and
burnt, cotton was planted before
the land was sown with Rhodes-
grass. Excellent harvests of up
to three bales of seed-cotton per
acre were garnered from the
rich soil, and the farmer had an
income while waiting for his
grasslands to become established.
In 1923 cotton was planted
extensively in the Callide Valley,
particularly in the Thangool
district. R.H.C. will probably
recall those early settlers
Marlow, Tollemache Bros.,
Kent, McNamara, Robertson,
Russell and others who pioneered
cotton ir A*'\t area.
As pat i(S became established
in the cleared scrublands, dairy-
ing was combined with cotton,
and by 1928 large quantities of
cream were being railed to the
Wowan butter-factory. The de-
cline of cotton in favor of dairy-
ing can be gauged from the fact
that the 1924 planting of 50,186
acres had fallen to 20,000 acres
in 1929. As tractors replaced
horses larger areas were handled,
and in 1938 the peak of 66,470
acres was reached. The demands
of war were a stimulus, and
15,000,0001 b. of seed-cotton was
harvested in 1942. The post-war
years have seen a marked
decline; in 1947 less than
1,000,0001 b. was harvested; in
1952 the figure had risen to
1,400,0001 b. and has remained at
about that ever since. Banana
Shire, of which the Thangool
district forms a large part, grows
about 69 per cent, of the total.
Durango was the variety
grown before the early 1930’5,
but it was discarded for the
short-stapled varieties, such as
Cliett and Lone Star, to meet
the demands of the Lancashire
spinners.
Post-war labor-costs were a
setback. Before thw war the
standard rate for pickmg cotton
was 2d. per pound. This rate
increased so rapidly after 1945
According to “Elas-
trator” users lambs
can be marked and
tailed with rubber
rings with equal safety
whether the day is
hot and dry with
blowflies prevalent or
cold and wet. It
would appear, there-
fore, that any day is
a good day for the
job. These users fur-
ther report that the
lambs lose little con-
dition, if any, and
that growth is not re-
tarded.
that it hardly paid to grow the
crop. Now, the Cotton Market-
ing Board is encouraging the
expansion of the crop by intro-
ducing mechanical harvesters.
Modern insecticides, such as
D.D.T. and 8.H.C., control the
corn-ear worm and other pests
much more effectively than the
older preparations. These inno-
vations account to a large degree
for the increased areas sown to
cotton after 1950.
Cotton will never return to its
pre-1930 status in the Callide
Valley. It played its part as a
pioneer-crop, and now must
remain as a sideline to dairying.
It is a very useful rotational crop
in Rhodes-grass pastures. If
these are showing signs of
deterioration, a period under
cotton will return excellent
narvests of seed-cotton and
much-improved swards when
the land is resown to grass.
In cotton’s heyday, ginneries
were established at Whinstanes,
Gladstone, Rockhampton,
Wowan and Gayndah. Now only
two are active —Whinstanes and
Rockhampton.
Since 1924 the Common-
wealth Government has assisted
the industry. At first the Govern-
ment paid a bounty on the crop
and on manufactured yarn.
This was changed to a bounty on
the crop only. In 1943 a
guaranteed price was paid, and
this necessitated a bounty-pay-
ment in some years.
The Queensland crop is
grown mainly by dry-farming
methods. Irrigated cotton, a
hope for the future, is still in
its infancy.
Lex McLennan: While cotton
was the mainstay of the Callide
Valley in the ea f.y years, its
eventual decline saw the rapid
rise of dairying, which soon be-
came the major occupation of
the Valley and is likely to remain
so.
As for farmers in the area
being unable to “exist on either
cotton or dairying alone,” the
Biloela butter-factory has an
annual output of 1800 tons, and
monthly cream-cheques to indi-
vidual suppliers have been as
murh as £BOO. Monthly cheques
of £2OO or more are common.
On the other hand, a farmer
in ttoe Mt. Murchison area last
year took a £20,000-crop from
500 acres of cotton. Crops of
100 bales (gross value nearing
£3000) are by no means unusual.
The Callide and Dawson rank
second only to the Darling
Downs. Hundreds of thousands
of bushels of wheat, barley, oats,
white French-millet, canary-
seed, peanuts, grain-sorghum,
sunflower-seed and maize are
produced annually. Wheat has
yielded as high as 54 bushels per
acre, maize up to 66 bushels and
grain-sorghum up to 90 bushels.
Hundreds of baconers are sent
to the meatworks weekly, and a
£350,000 co-operative bacon-
factory has been mooted for
Biloela, the metropolis of the
Valley. And the cattle are still
here —only the big belt of
alluvial land and the rich briga-
low - country and softwood -
scrubs were divided into farm-
ing areas. The adjoining iron-
bark-ridge country sound
grazing-land—was cut-up for
grazing, and the white-faced
cattle still reign supreme there.
The miles of Rhodes-grass
dairying country of Mt. Murchi-
son (near Biloela) and Grevillea
Plateau (south-east of Thangool)
recently lured R. E. Kleberg
(U.S.A. cattle-king) on a tour of
inspection.
1 came to the Callide at the
end of 1924, taking-up country
(at the age of 16) near what is
now the thriving town of Than-
gool. I have lived here ever
since. In that time there have
been three droughts—l 932, ’46
and ’sl—and they were com-
mon to most of Queensland.
The fairly dry winter
hampered the early wheat-
growers temporarily, but, with
the assistance of the Regional
Experiment Station at Biloela,
Callide farmers have long since
overcome that obstacle. By
trapping the rains in late summer
and autumn in a medium-length
fatiow a crop of 30 bushels can
be grown on a planting-rain of
1-1 jin., with no rain thereafter
during the growing period of the
crop. The plant-breeders of the
station have given invaluable
service by evolving strains of
various crops ideally suited to
Cent)al Queensland conditions.
Irrigation is coming fast to
the Valley. Geological investi-
gation has shown that the large
alluvial tract sits on top of a
vast underground lake, and
underground supplies of 30,000
gallons per hour have been
tapped at depths varying from
50ft. to 150 ft. As R.H.C. notes,
cotton backed by irrigation
could transform “the twin valleys
into one of the biggest cotton-
belts in the world,” but it is very
doubtful if more than a per-
centage of the Callide Valley
irrigation-projects will ever be
used only for cotton. Irrigated
permanent pasture seems almo't
certain to claim the greater part.
Biloela is the largest town in
the Valley. When I saw the area
first over 30 years ago not one
building of any description stood
on the brigalow-fringed plain.
Now there is a bustling nerve-
centre of one of Queensland’s
greatest agricultural areas. The
town has two modern hotels, a
butter-factory, an up-to-date hos-
pital, shire offices and depart-
mental branches, many busi-
nesses, hundreds of homes, golf-
links and bowling-green.
Thangool, seven miles south
of Biloela, is the second town in
the Valley. It has a modern aero-
drome, and Brisbane papers are
available two hours after they
are on the streets of the capital.
Thangool would have expanded
much more had it not been so
close to Biloela, but it still runs
to two modern hotels and many
businesses and homes. It has
also become famous throughout
Central Queensland as a racing-
centre —in pdzemoney the Than-
gool Cup fcjis become one of
the major races of Central
Queensland outside of Rock-
hampton.
Today a pmver-line crosses the
entire length of the Callide
Valley, a railway links it to
Rockhampton and a bitumen
road to its grain-port of Glad-
stone.
The one tragedy of the Valley
is that few of the original
settlers are left. Many sold their
properties for a song in the de-
pression after laying the founda-
tions for those who came later.
R.H.C.’s station, a few miles
north of Thangool, with 20
stockmen, a homestead-crew and
a Chinese gardener, has mystified
the old hands —many of whom,
contrary to R.H.C.’s comment,
are today successful farmers,
graziers and businessmen, and
"It’s a terrible drought Everything's lookin' so
miserable and poor."
did not “move on with the
cattle.”
The only old station a few
miles north (north-west actually)
of Thangool was Prairie,
situated a mile from where
Biloela now stands, and the
description given does not tally.
Shallow Needle
“Tatiara”: When using a
needle subcutaneously on sheep
—as when introducing calcium
borogluconate to save an animal
from milk-fever —do your best
to avoid stabbing the deeper
tissues.
In the first place a piece of
skin can be pinched-up with the
left hand while the needle is slid
under it with the right, but prac-
tised needlemen do not hold the
skin. As the needle penetrates
the skin the thumb presses the
piston and injects the dose.
Before refilling the needle pass
it through an iodine swab. After
filling, place the lid on the jar.
These hygienic precautions can
save the lives of many sheep.
Pruning Peaches
“Big Billy”: Tests over five
years in the Upper Murray irri-
gation districts of S.A. have
revealed some interesting facts
concerning the pruning of peach-
trees.
The tests were made by W.
B. Harris, of the Berri Experi-
mental Orchard, who has found
that, up to five years, hard
pruning reduces crop-returns on
both clingstones and freestones.
Also, while exp* ence has
shown that fruit-aunning is
essential with light pruning of
mature trees, fruit-size has not
been seriously reduced by light
pruning up to the third crop-
season.
Harris says that the results of
the trials indicate that lighter
pruning is fully justified and that
bigger crops may be expected. It
has also been shown that thin-
ning of fruit will improve size
and yield where the crop is \
excessively heavy.
In some instances propping
has been necessary to help trees
carry the full crop on both light
and heavy pruning. In other
cases unpruned trees developed
a spread'. lg, bushlike habit,
which made cultivation and
irrigation difficult. These trees
also split at the crotch, a defect
associated with the open-centre
type of crotch formed when the
trees were headed. For this
reason unpruned peach-trees
should be left unheaded at
planting.
Lambs Need Colostrum
“Pawnee”: Orphan lambs aio
easier to rear on cow’s milk if
they can get their first drink
from a ewe which has just
lambed. The colostrum milk
which a ewe gives just after
lambing contains more protein,
vitamins and minerals than
ordinary milk.
More important, it has anti-
bodies which protect a lamb
against certain diseases of the
digestive system. Colostrum is
a natural laxative which clears
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates,
Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous "FARMERS’ BOY”
SERIES II STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
AS ILLUSTRATED HERE
“SERIES II”
<#■ “MAJOR”
The "Farmers’ Boy" "MAJOR” also ploughs, and with its
extra H.P. can turn a 9 inch furrow up to 9 inches deep.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and for
demonstrations of The Farmers’ Boy Series II and The Farmers’ Boy Major.
N.S.W.: HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD., 74 Castlereagh St. BW 9647.
GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1651.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., 115 York St., Launceston.
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO. Pty.Ltd., 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
VtaTnO vu ■
M
/?=»?'
«»■■■■. . ' ' "
: ■:.. V . C ...;>
&&£ioSfrcooo»oocc^>ooq«w
h %
Li. IV* ~J Hit l <*" '1
II
11-.Miwr^as
•'• -V .:/.vsrv :•••-.::-:■ .v»*
ft&c
ill I
'I I ■
There are no
BETTER CEILINGS!
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are renowned, not only for
their beauty of design, but because they are truly
permanent and trouble free. Decide now on INEX-
PENSIVE Wunderlich Metal Ceilings—Ceilings that
• LAST A LIFETIME • SELDOM NEED REPAINTING
• DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK • NEED NO REPAIRS
Ideal also for covering over faulty or dilapidated
ceilings in old homes.
Ask your local hardware merchant, ‘phone MX 2411 or
write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept. M, Box 474, G.P.O M
Sydney, for prices and illustrated catalogue.
modern
METAL CEILINGS
King Neptune! You’re right! this is...
KING-SIZE
power;
=1
V
DO
Completely Eliminates Knock... Gives Instant
Starting, Better Acceleration, Maximum Power
and More Miles to the Gallon.
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM containing I.C.A
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM
E 3
ih?j
UiPTUiiE
PREMIUM
the digestive tracts in young
animals, and it is also lich in
vitamin-A.
If colostrum is not available,
a teaspoonful of codliver-oil,
repeated as necessary, helps to
clear the digestive system.
Cow’s milk should not be
diluted when fed to lambs. Strip-
pings from a high-testing Jersey
should be satisfactory. Other-
wise, cream should be added to
the milk.
Dieldrin
“Geep”: I don’t know how
critical is the concentration of
dieldrin in sheep-dip, but 0.0005
per cent, and one part in 50,000
(B. 16/5/’56) are not similar
concentrations. The second is
four times as strong as the first.
"Try the Bush"
There have been many letters
to The Bulletin moaning about
shortage of labor on the land.
Such correspondents, in par-
ticular, are referred to the follow-
ing letter from K. Davidson, 24
Abbey-road, Louth, Lincolnshire
(Eng.):
May I reply to a par. by “W.J.1.”
of Queensland (B. 12/10/’55), headed
“Try the Bush”?
I’m anxious to try, and have been
for some time. I’ve applied to the
Australian authorities in London for
an assisted-passage, stating my desire
to work and make my home on a
cattle-station, but I haven’t made
much progress: apparently there are
no vacancies. But if “W.J.L” knows
anyone who could find employment
and accommodation for a man of 35,
with wife, twin boys of 15 and a
younger boy of eight, on a cattle-
station, and who would be prepared
to inform the competent authorities
in Sydney or any capital city or large
town, or to drop me a line, I’d be
happy to “try the bush.”
Sorry to be late with this, but I
only read the par. a day or so ago.
It could be my chance of a lifetime.
New Fertiliser
“C.A.A.”: A new’ fertiliser
gaining popularity in the U.S. is
aqua-ammonia, its main advan-
tages being convenience and
economy.
A liquid, aqua-ammonia has
no pressure at normal tempera-
tures and only 111 b. at lOOdeg. F.
It will not corrode steel and can
be easily stored in inexpensive
tanks. Application on the field
is usually through gravity-fed
hoses. It soaks readily into the
w rr.net rnvered im-
sod, J but Jbe °ov.ered im
mJa y P cl
llon - f •
. • • m ?
ammonia in quantities
to get nitrogen into soils from
which anhydrous-ammonia gas
quickly escapes.
For small-grain plantings,
shanks are generally placed close
together on the applicator and
the ammonia is applied at a
shallow depth for immediate
availability. Shanks are placed
wider and inserted deeper into
the soil to make nitrogen avail-
able to the crop-plants later in
the growing-season.
The new fertiliser is made by
bubbling anhydrous ammonia
into water.
Queensland Coffee
“Nedrium”: Cairns (Q.)
horticulturist S. E. Stephens uses
coffee made from berries of
coffee-bushes in his backyard,
and he isn’t the only northerner
to do so. But commercial coffee-
culture, which thrived early in
the century between Mackay and
Cooktown, has long died-out.
Land-clearing gradually brought
frost-liability, and a bad frost-
year knocked many of the early
plantations on the head.
We can grow good coffee, just
as we can produce good tea, there
is no argument about that; but
it is hardly economical these
days. A bush might yield 101 b.
of berries, but after pulping,
fermenting, washing, skinning
and roasting the amount comes
to about of coffee. Return
on nresent nrices isn’t good
on present P-ices isnt good
as it may the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
anf | e tf)C i, keening about 500
and Stock i keeping about 500
bushes going tor general
observation, in case e e
should arise to revive the old
industry. Some of these are
grown at Kamerunga, a tew
miles out or Cairns, and the rest
at Kairi, up on the tablelands.
The bushes are now about to
give their first big crop. It takes
five years to get plants in full
bearing. Last year there was a
small harvest about 401 b.
Aggressive “Agnes” did some
damage this year, but a consider-
ably bigger crop is now expected.
It is the hardy Arabian species
that grows in Queensland. This
reaches sft., and is more suited
to our conditions and gives a
better drink than the Liberian
tree-type.
Tree-lucerne
“Will C.”: Lucerne is the best
green-feed that can be grown
for poultry or pigs, but excessive
summer rain in some districts
causes weed-growth to choke it.
Though not a true lucerne, tree-
lucerne is more generally
reliable. It will grow to 20ft.,
and serves well as a thick hedge
or windbreak if regularly
trimmed.
A deep-rooter, it resists
drought, heat and cold; and
any robbing of neighboring soil
of moisture and plant-food by
strong side-rooting can be
stopped, without greatly harm-
ing the trees, by cutting a fairly
deep trench parallel with them
on one or both sides.
The leaves can be cut as
needed for fowl-feed, and the
cream-colored flowers are very
attractive to bees. The seeds
scatter from the pods when ripe
and soon propagate the tree.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: When painting
cement-sheet walls less than four
months old, wash them down
first with a one-to-four mixture
of vinegar and water. This helps
the cement-sealer to neutralise
the strong alkali in new sheets.
Wash off the residue of vinegar
with water and apply the sealer
when the sheets are dry. An
enamelised gloss-paint gives the
best finish.
“Hybrid”: A hybrid-maize
variety, Q 462, has been an out-
standing success in Queensland.
Beaudesert farmer E. M. Shaw
harvested a crop (grown without
fertiliser or irrigation) which
yielded more than 100 bushels
to the acre. The Q 462 variety
was one of the first developed at
Gatton College. A new variety
showing great promise is Q 790.
An early-comer, with great
potentialities on the coast and
Downs and in the northern areas
of the State, it is a heavy yielder,
with a good husk-cover.
“Lesbo”: A large discarded
bucket with the bottom removed
slips handily into the top of a
sack as a holder to make filling
easier.
“Spinner”: Test spinner-type
topdressers at the beginning of
the season by placing empty bags
at intervals on the ground
across the first strip to be
dressed. After the first run, the
bags show the distance to which
the fertiliser is being spread
and indicate the width of strips
for treating the pastures without
undue overlapping. This test is
important when seed is being
spread with the fertiliser.
“Billjim”: According to the
royal commissioner’s report on
the W.A. Potato Board, Wes-
tralia has the highest potato-
yield of any Australian State.
The annual return from 8063
acres in 1953-54 (the State’s
highest acreage yet) was 48,520
tons, or 6.53 tons to the acre,
compared with N.S.W.’s 2.82,
Queensland’s 3.01, South Aus-
tralia’s 4.75, Tasmania’s 3.24,
and Victoria’s 4.5.
“Hortus”: Don’t take all the
feathers when cutting fowls’
wings. It is unsightly and
reduces the protection against
weather. Most satisfactory way
is to cut out the centre feathers
of one wing, leaving at least
three or four feathers on both
the outside and inside. You
can hardly notice this style of cut
when the wing is folded, and it
is just as effective as cutting
all the feathers. When a
fowl’s wing is cut, the feathers
will not grow again until the
moulting-season.
“San Q.”: Since 1953 five
persons have died in Queensland
and at least four cases of severe
illness have been reported result-
ing from the use of pentachlor-
phenol (P.C.P.) as a weedicide.
Most recent death was that of a
16-year-old youth, believed to
have absorbed P.C.P. through the
skin two days previously. There
is no known antidote. Protec-
tive measures should include
mask, gloves, sleeves rolled
down, long pants, a high
standard of personal hygiene and
sound spraying-equipment. These
measures should not be treated
casually.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/6/’56)
Queensland should experience further general rains
during July, with the heaviest falls in the south-west and
southern mid-interior. Renewed flooding may occur in these
areas. The coast should have light to moderate rain, with
light rain in the Peninsula and part of the north-west.
General rains should continue in N. S. Wales during
July, with the heaviest falls in the central-west and n.-w.
slopes and plains. There may be further flooding in these
divisions.
Victoria should have general rains during July,
although Gippsland and part of the central division may
only receive moderate falls.
In S.A. moderate rains are likely in the agricultural
areas, with heavier falls in the lower South-east, but poor in
the interior.
Reasonably good general rains should occur in the
south-west agricultural areas of W.A. during July, with
patchy general rains in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
s. <
mm
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAMCER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland i
\ JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
jk\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IB! .12
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
PRESSURE
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON I* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Poker-machines
About this barney over one-armed
bandits in N. S. Wales:
The U.L.V.A. doesn’t like them because
they tend to give the clubs that use them
an advantage in. trade. The clubs do like
them because of the profit they make.
Apparently, however, neither side cares
how demoralising they may be to people
who fall for them. That aspect should
be considered, because if it is all right
for a club-member to play the bandit in
the interest of club-funds, why not run
roulette, baccarat and other gambling
games? Our village could become as
famous as Monte Carlo if we were
allowed to run the lot.
We began by making a nice little profit
of £l5OO out of bar-takings ; then it was
decided to kick things along a bit with
poker-machines. Now the profit is nudg-
ing £15,000. And what are we going to
do with the profit? Why, build a bigger
and better club, of course, and install
more poker-machines.
Ninety per cent, of our members are
workers and 90 per cent, of them will
say how hard it is to make ends meet
on their present wages. The trouble is
they don’t spend their wages —they give
them to the club.
If the Federal Treasurer wants to keep
money out of circulation he should install
one-armed bandits at all street-corners.
That would be much more popular than
increasing sales-tax. — Bush-cat (N.S.W.).
Pity the Public Servant!
Many a worthy citizen, engaged in the
easy, carefree occupation of seeking a
living, must have dropped a tear
of sympathy for public servants when
he read Dr. Alan Stoller’s announcement
that there is a high rate of mental dis-
turbances among them. Dr. Stoller
added, a little obscurely for one reader',
that this fact was “an example of how
State-aid plans bred mental disorders.”
In any case, it should be useful to learn
if possible whether the symptoms appear
only after a term of years of licking
stamps, filing stamps, saying “No,”
initialling memos, and eventually achiev-
ing the gratifying but dreadfully lonely
seniority which, in the service, permits
sole use of an office and control over
some bell-pushes and telephones.
Many elder citizens will recall the days
when public service was poorly rewarded,
and its only compensations were the
degree of security it offered, coupled with
some meagre superannuation. Now, of
course, salaries and hours compare more
than favorably with the private enter-
prise which pays the taxes to support this
huge army, and there are all sorts of
“perks,” including long-service leave and
generous sick-pay, which are seldom
found outside. Jobs in Federal and State
services are just as secure, promotions are
easier in the expanding departments, the
hours of actual labor (as distinct from
newspaper-reading and racing-gossip) are
easy. Yet, in spite of all this, “there is
a high rate of mental disturbances.”
People with considerable experience of
Government departments, with their
exasperating delays and buck-passing, will
be affected to learn that mental sickness
“I'd see a quack about it if I Were you.”
and not just cussedness or rudeness is
the cause of so much irritation. Those
members of the public whose time is
literally a vital factor in their income-
earning capacity will be able to bear
patiently in future the endless waiting in
corridors or the non-arrival of mail
bringing vital documents. And journals
like The Bulletin which occasionally
criticise the growth of bureaucracy will
have to change their tone. —M. W.
(A.C.T.).
Air Defences
It was fortunate that the Pan-American
aircraft’s call of “Mayday”—the inter-
national distress-signal—off the east coast
of Australia was only a mock call
designed to test our preparedness and not
a genuine call for help. The resulting
circus showed just how badly we were
caught napping and how unrealistic are
our air-sea rescue facilities.
Why are we such poor organisers in
matters of this nature? During the early
days of the war in the Pacific, when
money for defence was no object, we
often showed a similar unrealistic attitude
towards emergencies. I was attached to
the Sydney Fighter Sector, the centre
where aircraft approaching the city were
identified —friendly or hostile—and from
which our air-raid defences, both fighter
and ack-ack guns, were controlled. The
sector was also responsible for sending
air-raid warnings to the civil authorities.
Any visitor to this control-room soon
realised that hostile aircraft could swoop
on Sydney, drop their calling-cards and be
on the way home before the system had
even classified the aircraft. Sirens would
have been silenced before they could have
wailed. More than once an aircraft had
landed at Mascot airport before the
sector had received the first warning
that the plane was approaching.
The system was slowly streamlined
until it was reasonably effective, but the
improvements were slow and an attack
during the first six months of the Pacific
war would have been disastrous for
Sydney.
We are now at peace, but it should be
remembered that formal declarations of
war are a courtesy of the past and next
time the damage will be done in days,
not years. Therefore we must be pre-
pared, and, if the “Mayday” fiasco is a
pointer to our present set-up, some hasty
reorganisation is imperative.
There are reports that Australia is
ordering new super-speed fighters. They
will need to be fast if our present
warning-system is on a par with that of
the early Pacific-war years.— Willpar
(N.S.W.).
Chair of Literature
Raising Australian literature to pro-
fessorial status in our universities (B.
6/6/’56) is a constructive, forward step.
We must be wary, however, of buckling
innate literary ability into academic
harness.
Any extensive control of direction of
the natural creative flow should be
avoided. It is well to remember that
much of the world’s best and most spon-
taneous literature has been produced by
the comparatively little-educated, and
that the study of life is more essential
to the poet or novelist than is a mass of
book-knowledge.
To take two local examples: Henry
Lawson and Joseph Furphy had the
bush and its people as their university.
Their output, whatever its faults, has a
freshness untrammelled by conscious
technical precision. Perhaps if Lawson
had been a university graduate he might
have written a treatise on cattle-diseases
or grammar, which, however valuable,
would never have filled the place now
occupied by the stories and verse born
of his wanderings and his understanding
of human nature.
As for Furphy, could he have rambled
his way so artlessly through Such Is Life
if he had spent his youth forging steadily
toward the dignity of a Litt.D.?
Top-level study of Australian letters is
highly commendable, but if future
creative writers are not encouraged to go
their own way independent of scholastic
influence their work may be robbed of
its spirit.—Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Coal, Gas and Oil
“Jeremiad” (B. 9/5/ ’56) seems to b<|
unaware that the gas-industry is one of
Australia’s major consumers of coal.
Most gas-undertakings are in the hands
of private enterprise, and all must con-
form with relevant acts to supply gas of
a specified calorific value. The coal-
industry hasn’t the same legal obligations
in regard to the coal it supplies.
In view of the difficulties of obtaining
gas-making coal of good quality and in
sufficient quantities the gas-industry is
being compelled to turn to oil. A number
of undertakings are now giving preference
to oil gas-plants when replacing obsolete
carbonising-plant or installing additional
plant.
The Australian Gas Light Company
is already supplementing its supply with
residual gas produced from oil by the
Petroleum and Chemical Corporation
(Australia), Ltd., a petro-chemical com-
pany.
The coal-industry had better watch-
out or it may eventually find it very
difficult to market its product.—D. W. M.
(Q.).


Queensland’s Hospitals
Queensland’s free hospital - service
might well be the envy of southern States
(B. 30/5/’56). The service provides free
treatment hospital, medical and
specialist —to all who want it. For those
able and willing to pay for the same
services there are private and intermediate
wards. Many southerners come to
Queensland to avail themselves of free
treatment which might cost them
hundreds of pounds in their own States.
There’s no reason why N. S. Wales and
Victoria shouldn't have free hospital-
services on the same basis. The State
Government manages to finance the free
service from various sources, and other
States could easily do likewise.
Healing the sick should not be
regarded as a profit-making business, nor
should sick people be denied life-saving
treatment because they can’t afford to
pay for it. And it is a reflection on the
State Governments concerned that hos-
pitals should be allowed to flounder along
with inadequate finance and with orders
to collect unpaid bills irrespective of
whether the patient can afford to pay
them or not.
Going by my own experience in N. S.
Wales, the charge of £8 Bs. a week for
public-hospital treatment also provided
for medical attention. But in quite a
few centres the public-ward patient
receives a sizeable account from the
doctor who treated him, as well as his
hospital bill. 1 understand this is frowned
on by the authorities, but it goes on just
the same.
The Commonwealth Government has
urged everyone, particularly low-wage
earners, to join one of the various
medical-benefit schemes, but the value of
such membership is becoming dubious.
Originally the patient was only obliged
to pay about 3s. as his share of a visit to
his doctor. Now his share is something
like 10s., because doctors’ fees generally
have risen while benefit-payments haver
remained steady.
One unfair aspect of the medical-
benefits plan is that persons suffering
from a chronic illness are not eligible.
Another imposition is the recent decision
of medical-benefit societies that people
who develop chronic illnesses after
becoming members should only receive
benefits for two years, becoming ineligible
for assistance after that.
It is difficult to justify such a callous
attitude. It means that people in southern
States who suffer from chronic illnesses
have the choice of raising the money for
treatment or being left to die.—
Sparks (Q.).
It is true that patients admitted to
Queensland public hospitals pay no fees,
but because of the shortage of accommo-
dation many sick people who cannot
afford private or intermediate hospital-
fees are denied any sort of hospital treat-
ment. Many of those fortunate enough
to be admitted are discharged in very
early stages of convalescence to make
room for more urgent cases.
The various medical-benefits societies
in Queensland all have many contributors
to their hospital-benefits funds, and
private hospitals have long waiting-lists.
Some of their patients are not there by
choice, but only because room cannot be
found for them in the “free” public
hospitals. Yet many patients in public
hospitals could well afford
hospital fees. — Double X (Q.).
Nippon Bids for Trade
Although every Australian leader-
writer seems ready to write a pro-
found article on overseas trade-problems
at the drop of a hat, newspapers ignored
the return to Australia of the Australian
delegation to the 10th session of GATT in
Geneva, at which matters of great mo-
ment to this country were discussed. One
of the most significant, the treatment of
Japan by Australia, has been under
review at a series of conferences which
could culminate in a substantial lift in
imports from Japan. Other discussions
concerned timber coming into Australia
from Papua-New Guinea, and the com-
mercial trade-agreement between Aus-
tralia and the Federation of Rhodesia
and Nyasaland (which extends to the
whole area concessions given previously
to Southern Rhodesia, and will have some
effect on the tobacco trade).
The admission of timber duty-free from
New Guinea to encourage economic
development of the area is another con-
cession which, following the Tariff
“Whereas I cant agree to the loan , Mr. Snurk, I'll give you fifty-pounds
for the copyright of your story.”
Board’s recommendation on the subject,
may prove of some local importance.
However, the outstanding problem from
Australia’s point of view was illustrated
by the skilful presentation at Geneva of
Japan’s case. Last September Japan
became the 35th contracting-party to
the General Agreement, but 14 nations,
including Australia, invoked Article 35,
which in effect absolved them from giv-
ing Japan most-favored-nation treatment.
Australia’s action was doubtless prompted
by a mixture of politics (Japan is still
highly unpopular with many Australians,
and not unnaturally so) and of concern
for Australian secondary industries.
The Japanese disappointment with this
situation was expressed by a motion
which caused some consternation among
the delegates of the 14 nations at Geneva,
but which was eventually withdrawn after
Britain had astutely watered it down into
something of little importance.
Australia might have been in an awk-
ward position if a majority of the 14 had
yielded to the strong Japanese plea, which
included an assertion, borne out by facts,
that Japanese goods are now generally
of higher standard than before the war,
and that Japanese prices are higher.
France pointed out that there were still
wide differences in living-standards be-
tween those of Japan and of Japan’s com-
petitors, but it was evident that all dele-
gations were considerably impressed with
the Japanese case, and with the emphatic
assertion that although Japan could
retaliate against the 14 countries she was
vigilant to avoid any disruption of trade
by discrimination.
The Commonwealth Government should
give an early indication of its feelings and
intentions, and of the general line which
Australia is taking with Japan.— Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
Objectivity in TV News
Perhaps the most significant step yet
taken to ensure objectivity in televised
news was that taken by the British Tele-
vision Authority, which has offered con-
tracts to three powerful newspaper and
cinema groups to present entertainment
programmes in competition with the
8.8. C. The authority has said also that
it will set up a separate organisation, “so
constituted as to guarantee objectivity,”
to provide a national news-service com-
mon to all three commercial operators.
Newsreels will also be the responsibility
of this organisation.
The authority’s announcement followed
closely on the issue of the first annual
report of the British Press Council which
said, amongst other things, that “a free
and trusted press is the only ultimate
safeguard of democracy.” Cynics will
read into the Television Authority’s
decision to provide an independent news-
service for commercial operators a
suggestion that although the British
press is free it is not necessarily trusted.
The new national television news-
service will be in direct competition
with the 8.8. C., which has been working
painstakingly for some time to perfect
the coverage and presentation of televised
news. The 8.8. C. realises that people
in every country in the world are
interested in day-by-day happenings,
and that news offers an almost inexhaust-
ible supply of highly interesting
programme-material. The 8.8.C.’s
record in the field of news-broadcasting
is sufficient guarantee that its presentation
of televised news will also be of the
highest possible standard, and will keep
the new organisation on its toes. This
is all to the good, since it will ensure
for United Kingdom “viewers” the choice
of two highly organised objective
services. Champions of press-freedom
cannot complain of that!
It will be interesting to see whether
the Australian Government, as it develops
its television plans, will also provide for
an objective news-service to be given
through the commercial stations it
proposes to license in each capital city.
Jvfews and newsreels will inevit-
ably become an important feature
of both national and commercial
programmes; and the question which is
already agitating some minds is whether
the national service, to be run by the
A.8.C., will be powerful enough to
compete with commercial stations in the
presentation of these key programmes.
Apparently the British authorities felt it
would be unwise to allow commercial
operators to present news in competition
with even the powerful 8.8. C.; and the
risk that the A.B.C. will be overshadowed
by its commercial rivals here is very
much greater.
There could be no threat to press
freedom in the establishment of an
independent organisation in Australia to
provide televised news and newsreel
programmes for even partially - owned
commercial stations. Indeed, newspapers
should welcome such a move, since it
would be a practical endorsement of the
right of free expression for all responsible
elements in the community. The press
here adopted a partisan attitude in
opposing the establishment of an
independent broadcast news-service
through the A.B.C. It now has a chance
to redeem itself by urging the setting-up
of an organisation to ensure that
televised news-services, even through its
own stations, are above reproach.
The Federal Government might as
well examine the reasons which have
prompted the British authorities to insist
on an objective news-service through
commercial television-stations with a
view to taking similar precautions here. —
M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Retired Men
I don’t think the Commonwealth
Employment Service would ever set up
“a special branch to deal specifically with
the middle-aged and elderly” (B.
23/5/’56). Like most employers, it
seems to have an old-fashioned prejudice
against the aged, even though doctors
agree that today’s aged are far healthier
than their counterparts of 50 years ago.
If any proof of the capabilities of
today’s old-timers were needed, consider
the work being done by retired teachers
all over N. S. Wales. Teaching has
always been arduous work, and today,
with large classes and inadequate accom-
modation and equipment, it is even more
so. Yet these “retreads” are doing a
competent job.
Of the ten I have worked with in the
last five years, only one has cracked-up
as a direct result of teaching. When
they came back to the classroom they
were all over 65; one, probably the
strongest and most capable of all of them,
was 70. Nor had any of them coasted
along in their pre-retiring days. Five
had been headmasters of metropolitan
high-schools, a position secured only by
hard work. — Badiped (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 387
Across
I—Henry1—Henry to see that distant king-
fisher. (7)
4—Fail with the nose showing
through the veil? (4, 3)
7—Halcyon is an Australian Prime
Minister, raised to higher rank.
(10)
9—You canonised a blinking
nuisance. (4)
10 — Boarded with a bounding Aus-
tralian faculty. (6)
11 — 7-aoross catches it. (8)
13 —Rachel’s sister. (4)
15 —Where you might find a pavement
artist and an Asian prince in
Persian lamb. (9)
17— Coot backed a girl, but why so
much superior to the company?
(3,6)
18— Garden needs such socks. (4)
20 — Boxer's sure ribs are broken. (8)
21— Shakspearian twin from Ephesus
or Syracuse. (6)
24 Frank has nothing to write. (4)
25 — Jolson to cage sheep and cattle
with mountaineering equipment.
ao>
26 Birdless ego with a register. (7)
27 — Sillier club row. (7)
Down
1 — Walker’s shriek is disorderly. (6)
2 Boy to leave in a manner of
speaking. (5)
3 Comment on an incomplete com-
pass smeller. (4)
4 Cry about male fog science. (9)
5 First-innings wins are not
included in such absent privileges.
(9>
6 Where to drive off an object
reason for baby’s irritability. (8)
B—Tenures offer cargo space for
nothing. (9)
12—Her dogs at disorderly stockmen.
(9)
14— Mute lemon is cut up for salary.
(9)
15 — It makes this land Jolson in
another country. (9)
16 — Obstinate butt delivered. (8)
19—He stops a beauty! (6)
22 I wander up with this trans-
Tasman character. (5)
23 — Ridge at the pavement’s edge. (4>
Solution to Crossword No. 386


Announcing ... The New
TITAN
FIRMER CHISEL
t *
m
m ,
■r
e ":" V
.411
:%x >
w
;• ";:•'
M 1
V *-
S.V
N.
X, "
X
X
♦
Attractively boxed
in sets of four
the new Titan Firmer Chisel
is a super quality tool,
specially designed for high class work*
The new Titan Firmer Chisel
is the latest addition
to the wide range of fine chisels by Titan.
Your storekeeper will be pleased
to show you the complete Titan range
including the new Firmer Chisel*
Completely
Guaranteed
Write today to Dept. “G”, P.O. Box 86A,
Melbourne , for your free Titan Catalogue .
f
THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.. TASMANIA
