

/
e
e
SOLERO
SWEE
The Bulletin
DIGGERS IN A DAN MAP TORRENT-mgezt
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3976
Wednesday, April 25, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE SENATE HOUSE,
FOCAL POINT OF LIFE AT
CAMBRIDGE
DURING its long history, covering a
period of seven centuries, Cam-
bridge University has had considerable
influence in the moulding of English
life. In its many halls, libraries and
chapels are commemorated such dis-
tinguished men of science as Darwin,
Newton, Ray, Thomson and Ruther-
ford ; philosophers such as Bacon, Smuts,
and Russell; poets like Wordsworth,
A. E. Housman, Dryden, Milton, Gray,
Rupert Brooke, Byron and Tennyson;
such historians as Macaulay, Acton and
the Trevelyans. The University produced a
great Prime Minister in Pitt the Younger;
John Harvard, who founded and gave his
name to the great American university;
while Cromwell, Pepys, Sir Francis
Drake, Horace Walpole are among
many others who are commemorated at
Cambridge.
Those who have studied at the Uni-
versity since the year 1730 have known
the Senate House, illustrated here, for it
is in this imposing building that exami-
nations are held and degrees bestowed.
Like the Sheldonian Theatre in Oxford
it is also the scene of the chief public
functions of the University. The archi-
tect was James Gibbs and building
began in 1722 ; it was completed eight
years later. The Senate House con-
tains some beautiful plaster work and
woodwork in addition to statues of
William Pitt by Nollekens and of
Charles, Duke of Somerset, Chancellor
of the University from 1689 to 1748, by
Rysbrack.
Cambridge was the first university in
England to admit women to its studies,
and today two world-famous colleges for
the higher education of women students
are situated there —Girton College,
opened at Hitchin in 1869 and moved to
Cambridge in 1873; and Newnham
College, opened in 1875.
No. 295: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
"COAST TO COAST"
Angus and Robertson invite contri-
butions for the twelfth Coast to
Coast, the anthology of Australian
short-stories published every second
year. Writers may submit two or. three
recently-written stories, which should
be in the editor’s hands not later than
April 30.
The anthology will be edited this
year by Henrietta Drake-Brockman.
Address contributions to the editor,
c/o Angus and Robertson.
Walter de la Mare
Kenneth Hopkins’s Walter de la
Mare; a Selection from his Writings
(Faber) is a good deed well done. It
could hardly—without disrespect to
Mr. Hopkins—be otherwise; for both
in prose and poetry De la Mare is
always a delight to meet, and he writes
so well, so evenly well, in both
mediums that it is almost impossible
for anyone to make an unsatisfactory
selection.
Of course it is always possible to
suggest alternatives. This reviewer, for
example, could never ma>e a De la
Mare anthology without including “A
Robin,” and the poem about the fisher-
man who caught a mermaid, and that
haunting little lyric “Who?” which
seems so compactly and so musically
to sum-up everything the poet has spent
his life trying to say:—
Ist Stranger. Who walks with us
on the hills?
2nd Stranger. I cannot see for the
mist.
3rd Stranger. Running water I
hear,
Keeping lugubrious
tryst
With its cresses and
grasses and weeds,
In the white obscure
light from the
sky.
!nd Stranger. Who walks with us
on the hills ?
Vild Bird. Ay! ... Aye! . . .
Ay!...
But, then, the curious truth is, for
De la Mare’s vision is at once limit-
less and extraordinarily limited, that
any one of his poems serves equally
well to sum-up everything he has to
say—he has spent his life writing count-
less beautiful variations upon a single
poem, saying that over the edge of
things there might be Something—and
so Mr. Hopkins’s selections do as well
as any others. Indeed, for an Aus-
tralian reader they have the unexpected
interest of showing an influence on the
poems of Rosemary Dobson; surely
there is some affinity between her
“Detail from an Annunciation from
Crivelli” (which surpasses the De la
Mare poem) and “Tom’s Angel”:—
No one was in the fields
But me and Polly Flint,
When, like a giant across the grass,
The flaming angel went.
As for the prose selections, the
beautiful style is everywhere—the
brilliance and the freshness, for
instance, of his picture of so old an
acquaintance as the moon:—
Although, again, the moon is so
close a neighbor, only some 30 days’
distance in a chaser aeroplane (80
being fixed on by Jules Verne as an
astonishing minimum for a journey
round the world), nothing on earth,
except its ice-caps and vast deserts,
remotely resembles her realm: with
its instantaneous extremes of all
but absolute cold, of violent heat
and wild glaring radiance; with her
enormous craters and prodigious
volcanic ramparts; her pocked and
arid plains ; her unbroken silence,
innocent of any twilight, of any odor
or fragrance or even of earth’s
perpetual falling of fine dust; and,
above all, her ink-black skies con-
tinually frequented, even at noonday,
by a myriad untwinkling stars.
Mr. Hopkins’s preface, enthusiastic
rather than critical, does not go very
deep; but, concerning the style, he
makes one excellent point, that De la
Mare’s prose, “fine-writing” though it
must be called, is never merely sounds-
for-the-sake-of-sounds like Pater’s, but
is always vitalised by humor, realism,
a touch of earth; and such delightful
short-stories as “Pigtails, Ltd.,” at
once fantastic and amusing, are wit-
nesses for his case. So, too, are De la
Mare’s critical essays (a number of
which are included) where, along with
the most exquisite prose, there is also
a great deal of shrewd analysis.
Mr. Hopkins rather overvalues the
“Memoirs of a Midget,” an unconvinc-
ing book in spite of its lovely passages
of Nature-writing, but he does well
again to call attention, both in his
preface and by a selection, to that
weird story “Henry Brocken,” with its
picture of peril and adventure among
the demonic Houyhnhnms of Swift.
Madame de Sevigne
Those with a taste for the captivating
autobiographical writings of Colette, so
liberal and amusing in their understand-
ing of life, so full of the grace of
femininity and the charm of gardens,
should find an equal pleasure in Letters
From Madame de Sevigne (Seeker and
Warburg), selected and translated by
Violet Hammersley; for, allowing for
the difference in their range of interests,
the Marquise de Sevigne might well be
described as a 17th-century Colette —
with a dash of Pepys and Boswell.
Sometimes printed in English in
inaccurate translations, and often
included in anthologies, she has long
been celebrated as one of the world’s
most charming letter-writers, and it is
easy to see why.
There are her vivid, intimate pictures
of life at the Courts of Louis XIII and
Louis XIV: which, in fact, she rarely
attended, preferring the seclusion of
her chateau in Brittany, but with the
scandals, follies, extravagances and
exalted tedium of which she never
failed to keep in touch. Perhaps the
best Court story —if it is not that of
Madame de Montespan, the king’s
mistress, receiving the gift of “a gown
of gold, lined and hemmed with gold
and gold applique, and over all rolled
gold, richly embroidered, superimposed
over yet another kind of gold, the most
divine material ever conceived, doubt-
less the handiwork of fairies,” or the
gossip from England about Nell Gwyn
and Madame de Keroual (the Duchess
of Portsmouth), or the description of
the nightly card-parties when a
thousand gold-louis were flung on the
table for counters —is the comi-tragedy
of “Vatel,” otherwise Watel, the hapless
major-domo who ran himself through
with his sword because the catering
went a little wrong at the midnight
supper in the woods: —
The King arrived on the evening
of Thursday ; the hunt, the lanterns,
the moonlight, the throng, the
supper-table spread on a carpet of
jonquils—all went famously. At
some tables the joints were missing
on account of additional diners who
had not been expected. Vatel,
horror-struck, kept repeating: “My
honor is lost, my honor is lost, this
is a disgrace from which I cannot
recover”.... Gourville only laughed
at him. Thereupon Vatel went
straight to his room, leaned his
sword against the doorpost and ran
it through his heart, only falling
dead at the third thrust.
There is her relish of a bizarre story
or spectacle from any quarter, as in
her strange account of the young
postulant who, “for penance,” knelt
naked in his cell and stabbed himself,
or of the fearful punishments inflicted
on celebrated poisoners—Brinvilliers,
who, before she was executed, was first
shaved on the scaffold and then
alternately flung down and pulled up
to face the crowd again for quarter
of an hour; and la Voisin, supposed to
be in league with various aristocrats,
who, before she was burned alive at
the stake, repeatedly threw off the straw
with which they had covered her.
There are the torturings and hang-
ings of rebellious peasants; and, to
demonstrate that aristocrats, too, were
not altogether immune from the pains
of the period, there are the awful
devices which passed for medical
science: whether it was Madame de la
Fayette nourishing herself on viper-
soup, or the Marquise herself taking
the waters at Vichy for her arthritis: —
Today I started the douches which
serve as a good rehearsal for purga-
tory. Stark naked you stand in a
hole underground, into which water
from the spring is carried by a hose-
pipe, boiling hot. An attendant
plays it on you where you will, and
it is humiliating to be exposed in a
state of nature without so much as
a figleaf. I had wanted to bring my
two serving-maids to keep me com-
pany. Screened by a curtain some-
one sits whose role it is to keep up
your courage. In my case it is a
doctor from Ganat....he has both
wit and honesty, and is a man of
the world ; anyhow, he pleases me.
So there he sits entertaining me
throughout my martyrdom. Picture
to yourself, I beg, a jet of boiling
water played on to your most vulner-
able parts, at first it is generalised
in order to stir up the dormant
senses, and before the affected joints
come under direct attack. When
finally it reaches the neck it is like
fire which catches you unawares with
such an element of surprise that I
can give you no idea of.
There is her reading—of Racine,
Corneille and a memoir of Christopher
Columbus, written by his son. There
is her delight, only faintly screened by
a necessary air of disapproval, in the
amours of her son who “crossed Paris
yesterday” to tell her the joke of his
failure with one of his mistresses . . .
How simple and amusing life becomes
when the convention is to have no
conventions!
There is her intense, excessive love for
her daughter, to whom she turned for
consolation after her neglectful husband
died, and to whom most of her letters
were written. There are the domestic
touches in the advice she lavished as
to her grandchildren’s health and
upbringing. And, pervading the whole
book, there is the green breath from
her woods at Les Rochers, where,
among trees duly disciplined in the
French manner to grow straight and
tall and stand in regular military for-
mation, she tasted the fresh air after
thunderstorms, watched her sawmillers
in the sunset, enjoyed even the snow,
and amused herself with imagining
“wraithlike figures, figures of black and
white monks, grey and white nuns
rising, vanishing, black men, hob-
goblins peering from trees, terrified
priests . .
Despite a flawless and appreciative
preface from Somerset Maugham, one
doubts if this is the best possible selec-
tion from Madame de Sevigne’s 1679
surviving letters. In her anxiety to
print as many previously-untranslated
letters as possible and to avoid over-
lapping with Arthur Stanley’s
“Madame de Sevigne,” published in
1946, Miss Hammersley has probably
included too many from her heroine’s
last years. Full of the troubles of old
age, though always courageous, they
make a poignant document, and have
the advantage of practically amounting
to an autobiography, but one misses
the gaiety and richness of the earlier
period. Still, we must be grateful for
what we have—it is a book of rare
quality.
Ancient London
While John Stow’s The Survey of
London, a recent Everyman reprint, is
hardly, except for the most ardent of
antiquarians, a book to read right
through at a sitting, it is a very pleasant
curiosity to dip into from time to time,
and it will fascinate anybody who has
visited, or intends to visit, that most
ancient city. It is a kind of historical
guidebook —the king of all London
guidebooks—written out of love for the
city by a chandler-and-tailor who died
in 1605.
One of its greatest charms, for there
is always something oddly appealing
about underground water, is its account
of all the wells and streams of that
originally marshy city, now long
covered over by roads and buildings.
The Perillous Pond, for instance, and
the Horsepoole:—
Somewhat north from Holywell
is one other well-curbed square with
stone, and is called Dame Annis the
clear, and not far from it, but some-
what west, is also one other clear
water called Perillous Pond, because
divers youths, by swimming therein,
have been drowned.... Horsepoole,
in West Smithfield, was some time a
great water; and because the
inhabitants in that part of the city
did there water their horses, the
same was in old records called
Horsepoole; it is now much
decayed, the springs being stopped
up, and the land water falling into
the small bottom, remaining enclosed
with brick, is called Smithfield pond.
The river named Wells apparently
ran under the present Fleet-street,
where now flows only printer’s-ink, a
waterway for ships until the tanners
befouled and choked it; and Langbome
Water, “so called of the length thereof,”
was “a great stream breaking out of
the ground in Fenchurch Street,” from
which it proceeded to the Thames by
way of Lombard-street and “the west
end of St. Mary Wolnothes church.”
There are the ancient prisons, such
as Newgate, from which in 1457 Sir
Thomas Percy, Lord Egremont and
Sir Richard Percy broke out by night
“and went to the king” while, in a
general revolt, the other prisoners
manned the gate until eventually they
were subdued and put in irons; “and
this may suffice for Newgate.” There
are the hospitals, such as St. Giles-in-
the-Field, at which “prisoners conveyed
from the city of London towards Tey-
borne, there to be executed for treasons,
were presented with a great bowle of
ale, thereof to drink at their pleasure,
as to be their last refreshing in this
life.” And there are such surprising
citizens as William Fitz Osbert, men-
tioned in connection with Bow Church,
who, being forced by fire and smoke to
quit the church which he had seized
in a riot, “forsook Mary’s son (as he
called Christ our Saviour) and called
upon the devil to help and deliver
him.”
It is a hefty b00k—533 pages, with
notes and index —and there is hardly
a paragraph which does not contain
some fact or incident of similar interest,
all related in the same vigorous, sinewy,
Elizabethan prose.
Reviewed Briefly
Recent Everyman’s reprints include
two volumes of Euripides and one of
/Eschylus. Both are in translations not
previously printed in Everyman’s, the
Euripides by A. S. Way and the
vEschylus by G. M. Cookson. It is an
advantage to have the Euripides all by
one hand instead of by a variety of
authors as in previous editions, though
one misses Shelley’s sparkling transla-
tion of that unexpectedly amusing play
“The Cyclops.” The reader will still
have to find his way to both play-
wrights through the mist of unneces-
sarily archaic language.
# >K * *
Mankind Against the Killers: James
Hemming (Longmans). Science against
diseases, dating from the tribal
medicine-men to penicillin and after-
wards, and including the war on pests
attacking crops as well as human
diseases. Compact, readable, illus-
trated with photographs: chiefly meant
for older children, but also for adults.
* * # *
The Helford River: C. C. Vyvyan
(Peter Owen). In spite of its ominous
name, this is an amiable little waterway
in the Cornish countryside, open to
seaborne traffic as far up as the
delectable village of Gweek. Lady
Vyvyan writes with charm and humor
of landlords, prawns, birds, wild-
flowers and other appropriate
phenomena.
* * * *
These Lovers Fled Away: Howard
Spring (Collins). As each life makes
its own pageant, this novel will appeal
to many readers for its sympathetic
review of a lifetime spent in England
over the past 50 years. Pictures of the
changing background, Cornwall. West
Riding, Manchester, Oxford, light the
careers of the central character, a suc-
cessful playwright, and the group of
friends who are the actors in his life.
The tragedy and high-romance implied
in the title are not realised, because the
lover, Eustace, is unconvincing and the
whole tone of the book is mild, tolerant,
humorous rather than passionate and
vigorous; but its pleasant, competent
narrative-style carries the reader
smoothly and happily over its 512
pages.


Sydney’s largest
Grocery Dept.
Caters for all your food needs
speedily and efficiently •
Anthony Horderns’ have long been famous for
the efficient way in which they cater
for the public. Nothing is too
much trouble for them. A wedding
reception for 200 guests is just as
easily arranged as a birthday party for
your young four-year-old at their restaurant.
Plenty of bottled beer available
Free Daily Delivery to 325 Suburbs
®ii
iWINES
no
■±
& U
*2
V L
F
£
n
Tudor Room
Quietly situated on the
mezzanine floor, just down
the stairs from the Silk
Dept., Ground Fir., Pitt St.
Here you can have tempting
savoury dishes and cool
salads. We serve wine by
the glass with all meals.
85
U\
§
Party - time tasties
Cocktail Fish Cooked; Cocktail
Smoked Frankfurts; Cheesecrisps;
Cocktail Onions (white, yellow,
green, red) ; Queen Olives, Gher-
kins; Tins of Ham Cracklings
(imported). Send your orders now.
S 3
•
Fresh meats
Selected cuts of fresh meats
Rump Steak, Sirloin Steak, Pork
Chops, Mince Steak, Blade Steak,
are some of our own cuts. For
your protection all meats are
packed in cellophane. Your week-
end order for roast or legs will be
accepted Thurs. noon for Friday.
m
U
Continental foods
Do you like continental foods? Do
you like to have them fresh—ready
for the table? If you do, come and
see our new modern Continental Food
Counter in the Provision Section,
Lower Ground Floor, Goulburn Street.
£. VJ <• C
.V 3—
0
0
<s>
mid rich cahes
Let us make you a beautiful cake!
Whether its your first birthday,
your 50th Wedding Anniversary
or just a social occasion.
Wines and spirits
.Our Wine Dept, can supply all
you need from our large stock of
Australian or imported Wine,
Spirit, Liqueurs etc. You may
purchase single bottles of Aust.
Wines. Spirits or Imported Wines
must be ordered by the dozen, or
in smaller quantities if ordered
with Australian Wines and Spirits.
Yon need never leave home
for provisions
By making use of our unsurpassed
survice for housewives you can,
simply and completely rid yourself
of all the worry and fatigue of
waiting in crowded shops and
carrying home heavy shopping
baskets. It’s so easy. All you have
to do is to give us your 'phone
number and we shall ring you each
week for your order. Or you can just
mail your order —our delivery man
calls each week. Box 2712, G.P.O.
Simply dial 80951, and ask for T.O.P.S
i i
9
Let Anthony Horderns’ be your grocer and
help you with your shopping problems. Tell
us what you want and we’ll see that your
goods are delivered promptly daily to the
inner Sydney suburbs. Expert packers will
see that your groceries reach you in first class
condition. For quality, convenience shop at
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
jithony Horderns’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ GROCERY DEPT., GROUND FLR., GOULBURN ST. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3976
Wednesday, April 23, 1936
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
BEER AND BIGOTRY
BEER has been very much in the news lately, with
the Victorian referendum on closing-hours attract-
ing Australia-wide attention and with heavy
increases in excise-duties making regular drinkers
ponder thoughtfully on the beer-component of their
, spending-budget. The overwhelming victory for
six-o’clock—6o per cent, of the aggregate vote and
a majority in all but six of the 66 electorates—
surprised even the leaders of the early-closing
campaign.
Varying reasons have been advanced. One
put forward by J. Coull, secretary of the Liquor
Trades Union, is that “the average worker,” because
of the “very unfair impost” made on him by the
higher tax, voted against an extension of hours. It
is rather hard to see the logic of this argument; a
glass of beer drunk in the six-o’clock rush costs
just the same as one bought in 9 p.m. leisure.
Coull’s protestation that many workers “would
be forced to give up drinking altogether because
it would simply be beyond their means” will be
discussed later. But his charge that the liquor-trade
campaigned in only a half-hearted fashion for
extended hours is probably pretty close to the mark.
It is a common belief of the Drys that publicans
and breweries want longer trading-hours, but the
Maxwell Commission in N.S.W. was not convinced
of this. Maxwell, J., said that he had little doubt
that many, and possibly the majority of, licensees
favored the retention of six-o’clock because “the
return from the sale of liquor is obtained more
quickly than with the burden of supervision and
added labor involved in later hours.”
There is no reason to suppose that Victorian
publicans are any different from their N.S.W.
colleagues in this regard. It also came out at the
Maxwell Commission that liquor interests had on
occasion contributed to the funds of the early-
closing people.
The fight against extension of liquor-trading
hours is largely sponsored by churchmen, though
by no means all sects or all clergymen support it.
In reality much of the opposition is not merely
against late-closing, but is inspired by an abhorrence
of all liquor; it is a total-abstinence vote, a prohibi-
tion-vote, which plumps for six-o’clock, because
there is no choice of five-o’clock or three-o’clock or
of closing the bars altogether. Such “temperance”
advocates, instead of concentrating on the evil of
excessive beer-drinking, insist that all b.eer-drinking
is evil.
Few reasonable people accept this extreme
verdict, and the weight of opinion of most of the
great men of history is against it. Indeed, even
those enthusiasts who claim that beer is a food can
at least quote the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” to
support their case. Not that anyone seriously drinks
beer for its food-content. Its accepted virtue is that,
as Adam Lindsay Gordon, slightly paraphrasing the
old author of “Ecclesiastes,” said of wine, it “maketh
glad the heart of man.” Anything that can do
that merits approval, though this is not admitted by
miscalled “temperance” advocates who condemn all
beer simply because when drunk to excess it maketh
ache the head of man, maketh dull the mind of man
and maketh sour the soul of man.
The opposition of the churches to beer is quite
a modem phenomenon. In medieval times the
church did not oppose liquor. Far from it! Every
monastery had its brewhouse, and parish churches
held festivals at which beer was sold by the church-
wardens, the profits being devoted to keeping the
church in repair or in relieving the distress of the
poor. In Tudor times these functions were most
generally held on Sundays. Yet the period has not
come down to us as one particularly notorious for
drunkenness. That honor is reserved for a later
age when liquor had become divorced from the
church, and gin-palaces instead of churchwardens
attended to the drinking desires of the community.
Without advocating the serving of cocktails at
the Anglican Synod or the cracking of a couple of
“eighteens” at the Methodist Conference, it is sug-
gested that “temperance” crusaders might achieve
more lasting good if they aimed at making the
whole community more temperate instead of regard-
ing it as progress to have gained a few more pledges
of total abstinence.
A study of liquor-statistics should convince the
blue-ribboners that, however sincere their intentions
may have been and. however zealous their efforts, the
game simply hasn’t paid-off. In 1916, when six-
o’clock closing was first introduced in Australia, the
average annual consumption of beer per head of
the population was 11| gallons. By 1920 it had
risen to 13 gallons, but thereafter it settled-down
at the 11-gallon mark and stayed there for about
10 years, to fall during the depression of the early
’thirties to 7.32 gallons.
By the outbreak of World War II it was back
to 11 gallons again, and during the war years an
average of 13.25 gallons was maintained. Since
the end of the war the figure has risen steeply. By
1951-52 it was 20.46, and for the current year con-
sumption is running at the rate of 24} gallons. The
“per head” includes babes in arms and centenarians
in wheelchairs —and, of course, total abstainers.
The estimated total consumption for this year
is 223 million gallons, a figure described by the
Prime Minister as “a truly staggering total.” The
average of the five years to 1941 was 84 million
gallons. This vast increase in consumption would,
of course, have been impossible without a corres-
ponding expansion in production, necessitating a big
building-programme and an increased absorption of
manpower into the industry. The reformers might
well Concern themselves with the effect of this over-
expansion on the national economy—overexpansion
being taken as the amount of extension necessary
to meet the difference between the 11 gallons per
head which for the first 40 years of this century
was sufficient to slake the thirst of the community
and the 24} gallons of the current year. How many
extra homes, schools, hospitals, etc., could have
been built instead?
Similar questions might be asked of themselves
by those “Labor” politicians whose hearts, in the
course of the debate on the Government’s economic
measures, bled for workers who were called upon
to pay increased excise on beer. Mr. Edmonds, for
example, who asked members to consider the plight
of the “poor old wage-plug” who had “two glasses
of beer at lunch-time and two on his way home
from work. They will cost him an extra tenpence
every day.” Senator Wrllesee was similarly affected
at the thought of “the man who knocks-off at five-
o’clock in the afternoon and has four schooners of
beer on the way home.” In view of the “staggering”
figures quoted earlier, it is difficult to share the
worry of Messrs. Edmonds and Willesee for the
pathetic cases they cited. It is also difficult to recon-
cile “Labor’s” usual picture of the underpaid wage-
plug with the cheerful chap who is able to stand
himself four schooners every night of the week and
still, presumably, pay the rent, the butcher, the
baker, the grocer and the rest of ’em.
Mr. Coull’s forecast that many workers would
be forced to give up drinking altogether seems
rather too despairing. If the impost really hurts
won’t Mr. Edmonds’s friend be more likely to cut
out his lunch-time beers and add one to the evening
quota? And won’t Senator Willesee’s schooner-
fancier try to ration himself to three instead of four?
Or perhaps drink middies instead? Sydney publi-
cans claim that, apart from a temporary, falling-off
in custom which lasted only a few days, their trade
has been unaffected by. the rise. One told Sydney
“Telegraph,” “people soon forget the old prices.”
A survey among beer-drinkers at 252 George-street,
Sydney, supported this claim. Not one man could
be found who could recall with certainty the price
of beer just before the war, though many had
nostalgic memories of the free counter-lunches that
once accompanied the drink.
On past experience the new excise won’t reduce
drinking. Apart from a depression, which no one
wants, the only thing that can do that is the educa-
tion of the community in a saner approach to
drink. The present anti-liquor crusaders are unfitted
for this task, but perhaps among the younger
churchmen there are some who could attempt it.
Blood-drinkers v. Chicken-eaters
THOUGH it has its humorous aspects for “Labor’s”
enemies, the spectacle presented by the faction-fight
now in progress iif Sydney must make decent
members of the party despair. For most of last
week it consisted mainly of abuse and threats of
the type usually indulged in only by uninhibited
ladies operating over the back fences of Surry Hills
and Paddington. Meetings seem to have been
conducted under rules which even Rafferty would
be inclined to repudiate.
It is a firm rule of the Federal A.L.P. that no
“Labor” man may associate himself publicly with
any Communists or with any movement which is
Communist. Yet the Federal Executive’s agents
and friends, led by Clive Evatt, were to be observed
at the Sydney Trades Hall demonstrating against
the State A.L.P. branch because it was daring to
try some members for allegedly allowing their
names to be associated with those of active
Communists at a union-election.
However, it is now clear that the rule is mori-
bund, even as regards the political field. To be a
Communist is now to find the highest favor with
Federal “Labor,” since Dr. Evatt set the fashion
publicly by associating himself on openly-friendly
terms with Communist-party officials at the Petrov
commission. The Federal A.L.P., in fact, has not
merely accepted the dictum laid down by its official
organ in 1947 —then edited by one of its principal
Parliamentary front-benchers —that the objectives
of the C.P. and the A.L.P. are identical, though the
parties go about obtaining them by different ways.
It has now adopted Communist methods as well.
Realisation of this makes sense of the seemingly
abject and tortuous "operations of the past week in
Sydney which have exhibited a typical “united-
front” Communist-party operation: one in which
the aggressors revile and urge the destruction of
their enemies while at the same time trying to form
a union with them with a view to ultimately
swallowing them.
While the A.L.P. State Executive, a major
section of the Federal A.L.P., has been trying
alleged Communist associates (but not trying them
too hard), Clive Evatt, who some time ago was
told to get out of the presidency of a Communist
fellow-traveller organisation or else lose his “status
as a ‘Labor’ member,” has been doing his best to
prevent the trials and to wreak vengeance on the
judges. And at the same time supporters of Eddie
Ward have been crying-out like injured banshees
because, having appeared on a political platform
with Communist officials in direct breach of the
party-rules to protest against the revised Menzies
Government Budget, the Communists were preferred
to him as speakers.#
When this was written the Federal Executive
was shaping-up to inquire into State Executive
operations and alleged illegalities. But the State
body had issued a menacing resolution to the effect
that it was ready to answer specific, written criticism
before the Federal body only if given time to prepare
a case and the right to cross-examine accusers.
The Federal Executive seemed timid about
what the State Parliamentary party might do, there
being only four or five members of it who are
among the New Communist wing of the party. Or
perhaps it realises that it would be better to get
the Queensland elections over before it splits the
party. Qr possibly, again, it finds a lack of
enthusiasm in its Federal leaders for more brawling
while they hope for another Federal election if
the new Senate doesn’t prove satisfactory to the
Government. Certainly Messrs. Cahill and Heffron,
strolling down, George-street from the Lord Mayor’s
chicken-and-whatnot luncheon to the Cabinet —both
of them Anthony Eden-hatted and in black coats
and striped trousers of the hated Tories —didn’t
look as if they were spoiling for a fight, except,
perhaps, with another wing of chicken. And Dr.
Evatt is reported to be acting behind the scenes in
the role of a conciliator, which, considering the fact
that he himself was entirely responsible for making
the split with the Groupers and for pulling the party
policy on to the Communist line, would be amusing
if it were not so clearly in line with the Communist-
party “united-front” tactic.
Whatever action the factions take, the position
is clear. “Labor” is split to pieces. The Federal
Executive is formed of 11 members who follow the
New Communist line, plus one who doesn’t. The
N. S. Wales State Executive consists of 31 Groupers
and one lone follower of Evatt. The Federal body’s
dominating 11 is divided as to what should be done
to the State Executive, only a narrow vote prevent-
ing it from being sacked in toto out of hand. The
State Executive is equally divided. The
Parliamentary parties are also divided between the
chicken-eaters and those who want a full draught of
Red Leftist blood or blue Rightist blood.
The A.W.U., which used to form the leader-
ship of the moderate and reformist section of
“Labor,” now seems in every State to be the instru-
ment of the extremists, bent on destroying every
element in politics which will not bow to the
Moscow-line.
A.W.U. strikes in the shearing-industry, com-
bined with strikes organised by Communist unions
in the transport- and engineering-industries,
threaten to pull down the level of prosperity in
Australia to an alarming degree. And if the
A.W.U. in its present mood were to capture the
A.L.P. the Commonwealth could look forward to a
period when it would have pistols continuously at its
head. It is quite obvious that the A.W.U. and the
Communist-led 1 unions are each determined to form,
under the guidance of people like Evatt and Ward,
an extra-Constitutional Government, which would
observe the law only if and when they cared to
sanction it.
In these circumstances the really important
factor is whether the Leftist and A.W.U. faction can
succeed in driving the Federal A.L.P. to extremes;
and whether, if it cannot, the A.W.U. will with-
draw from the A.L.P., as its delegates threaten to
do. But all this is only important as indicating the
kind of schism which will take place; whether there
will be two “Labor” parties in existence, with clear-
cut division between Groupers or non-Groupers;
or whether there will be a United Front part)
consisting of Evatt-A.W.U. Reds and docile Cahill
chicken-eaters with a content of angry Groupers
floundering in their grip.


DAY OF MEMORIES


PLAIN ENGLISH
Britain's "Lottery" Budget
The British Budget must have lent
encouragement to both Premier Cahill ot
N S. Wales and to the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment—or that part of it which is not
already financed by Mr. Drysdale, the
enterprising businessman who is showing
the public of Australia how to win hun-
dreds of thousands of tax-free pounds by
the simple method of buying a ticket in
his lottery.
Britain’s Chancellor Macmillan has
joined in the lottery-business, but
his premium-bond method is mild and
ingenious, and leans rather to the
technique (if not the method) of Russia
than that of N. S. Wales.
Apart from this innovation, his Budgqf
is about the .least sensational for years,
though there is plenty of meat in his
proposals. The features to which most
public attention will be attracted are in
line with his intermediate plan intro-
duced earlier in the year to check infla-
tion and with that of the Commonwealth
Government —though, of course, different
in detail.
Through abolition of the bread-
subsidy, the l|lb. loaf will rise by to
lOd. in October. The tax on a packet
of 20 cigarettes goes up 2d.—to 2s.
The price per packet will rise to 3s. lOd.
On the other side of the ledger, families
with three and' more children will get
an allowance of 10s. instead of Bs. for
the third and each additional child.
Capital is to be further policed and its
fresh outlay restricted in nationalised
industries to £7OO million for the next
two years. Distributed-profits tax will
increase from 27i per cent, to 30 per
cent.; undistributed-profits tax will be
raised by 1| per cent.
About all these things there has been
relatively little .debate or controversy,
even though there is provision for a total
outlay of £4755 million in the Budget,
plus a surplus of £460 million. The
greatest grumblers are the smokers, who
go well on the way to paying half the
proposed defence-expenditure for the
year. Tobacco-taxes, with the increase
on cigarettes of £2B million, are expected
to yield £6BO million, while the Defence
Estimate provides for expenditure of
£1499 million.
The Government has adopted a new
15s. savings-certificate which can be pur-
chased at post-offices in the same way as
war-savings certificates used to be avail-
able in Australia. This will be redeem-
able for £1 at the end of seven years.
There is also a new issue of defence-
bonds which will pay 4\ per cent., tax-
free. But these are unlikely to cause a
riot in the present condition qf the
money-market and of speeding.
The proposed premium-bonds, though
they have been roundly condemned in a
country which long ago learnt all it
needed to know about official lotteries,
have novel features. The scheme permits
investment in £1 tickets up to £250
interest-free, subject to a lottery every
three months, at which prizes of up to
£lOOO can berwon. Those who do not
draw prizes do not lose their money.
They can withdraw it or they can allow
it to remain in kitty for later draws.
As a gamble it' is very mild, but it
has brought criticism from two kinds of
attacker—the moralists and those who
consider the small scale of the gambling
involved to be out of keeping with the
dignity of a great nation. Historians also
have their views, recalling that the British
Government raised large sums of money
by lotteries regularly between 1709 and
1824, and, like France and the United
States, was heartily glad to get rid of
the abuses that went with them —which
it did with difficulty.
■ o- —■
Another Rise
The Richardson report, presented to
Parliament by the Prime Minister last
week, makes a sensible approach to the
question of Parliamentary salaries,
though there may be some misgivings
as to the trends at the back of its find-
ings.
A Member of Parliament used to be a
representative whose duties were purely
Parliamentary. He was chosen, in theory,
at any rate, on the basis that he was a
substantial man whose capacity was
proved in business or in the professions
or because of a special training in poli-
tics or law. There was a rapid change
with the entry of the “Labor” party to
the Houses in large numbers. Many of
the “Labor” nominees were mere dele-
gates. Those who sent them to Parlia-
ment expected them to fetch and carry,
to follow the party-lead in the House and
leave legislation to the Government
(when the party was in office), confining
their own part in it to servile speeches of
acquiescence. It presently came to a pass
that the member’s Parliamentary duties
were only a trifle in his everyday work,
which largely consisted of squeezing
something—telephones, post-offices, pen-
sions, M.B.E.s and whatnot —out
of the civil service and Ministers. In
self-defence, members of other parties
adopted the same deplorable practice.
This kind of work has grown to the
point a’t which it has to be done to a
large extent by private secretaries, many
of them able and ill-paid women who will
get no rises commensurate with members,
but who know the departments like the
palms of their hands and sometimes
are far more adept at getting concessions
and favors than their employers.
It is proposed that in future members
in both Houses shall have a salary £6OO
In ore than previously, bringing their
basic wage to £2350. At that figure some
members will not be overpaid—those
who do give their full time to the job and
are men of proved ability. But there is a
large section of members who conduct
other businesses on a grand scale and
some who are not worth £5 a week of
anybody’s money. There are some who
almost depend on their secretaries to do
their work and write their speeches. To
the rich ones who conduct their own busi-
nesses and professions and spend as little
time as possible on Parliament and
administration the salary, is unnecessary
and unjustified. To the workers and
professional men of standing who really
devote their time to the job it is too
little.
In the nature of things, however, there
need be no argument. The salaries will
be increased and with them the allow-
ances. It is fiere that the report has
shown commonsense. Senators
will, if it is adopted, receive expense-
allowances of £7OO p.a. and M.P.s £6OO
in city electorates and £BOO in country
electorates, but not necessarily tax-free.
They will have to justify their claims for
exemption or deduction to the Taxation
Commissioner. They will no longer
receive the free gold rail-passes which
have cost the Government £l6O per man
per annum. From now on rail-warrants
will be issued for actual travel only, and
it is to be hoped that this will be more
restricted than it has been.
It would be interesting to see a public
audit by the Auditor-General of the
actual earnings, perquisites—free passes
to sport and other matters of the kind,
telegrams, telephone-calls from public
offices which are used on the most lavish
scale—of M.P.s and of their expenses
incurred in the course of their duties.
The result would probably stagger even
the hardened Australian public.
"Labor 11 and Ceylon
No one who saw the extraordinary inci-
dent in the House of Representatives a
fortnight ago, when Dr. Evatt attempted
to make some kind of political capital
out of Mr. Casey’s restrained reply to
questions concerning the effects on Aus-
tralian defence-strategy of the election
result in Ceylon, could be blamed for
wondering whether some liaison exists
between anti-British elements in that
island and the Opposition in Canberra.
The question itself, asked by Mr.
Bostock (Vic.), a former Air-Vice-
Marshal, who is a keen and informed
student of defence-trends, might have been
regarded in some quarters as provocative.
Bostock asked what effect the pos-
sible loss of vital bases would have
on Australian defence-planning, and
whether, as a result, closer integration
with U.S. defence-systems would be
sought. Mr. Casey replied, quite properly,
by quoting the announced Bandaranaike
policy on bases, and merely added that
Australia was watching the situation.
Thereupon the Doc. jumped to his feet
and attempted, through a “supplementary
question,” to suggest that the Minister had
said something derogatory about the
new Government which was about
to take office in Ceylon. Casey quite
properly resented this utterly unjustified
insinuation, but the uproar which then
greeted him from the Opposition benches
was obviously inspired.
It owed something, of course, to
“Labor’s” deep-seated inferiority-complex
in the physical presence in the Chamber
at that moment of the First Sea Lord,
Earl Mountbatten, and his staff, and the
Opposition’s knowledge that the Hobart
policy of a section of the A.L.P. has
brought discredit on their whole party.
Opposition members continued their dis-
order when Casey quoted, in reply to
a further question, two statements by
Abdul Rahman welcoming the presence
in Malaya of British and Commonwealth
troops as defence protection in present
circumstances.
The Opposition behavior was a demon-
stration of puerility not hitherto seen in
the new Parliament, but there was an
even worse exhibition a week later when
Mr. Pollard, a former “Labor” Minister,
expressed his pleasure at the prospect of
the Royal Navy being forced to leave
Ceylon, giving as his reason that he
believed in democracy.
If the Opposition approves of the loss
of British bases in Ceylon, as it appar-
ently does, then it must also welcome the
closing of the Suez Canal base. It must
hope for the loss of the bastion on
Cyprus, for the closing of British bases
in South Africl, for the eviction of all
British troops from Malaya. This is
apparently its policy.
It is a policy at once traitorous and mis-
guided, inviting disaster to Australia and
to all Australia’s friends in this region of
the world. No party claiming national
support should be allowed to get away
with a betrayal of this nature, a betrayal
not only to the dead of two world wars
and the Korean and Malayan campaigns
but to the new generation of Australians
who have a right to expect national
leadership concerned with their security
and safety in today’s world.
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz” : It is difficult to imagine
that the plight of the once-proud port of
Newcastle could be allowed to become
more desperate than it was at the end
of* March (B. 28/3/’56), but the latest
general-soundings plan of the harbor
leaves no doubt that such is the case.
This plan shows depths in the centre
of the main North Harbor channel —
from No. 2 buoy to midway between Nos.
11/12 Dyke wharf cranes —to vary from
26ft. 6in. down to 23ft. 3in. and from
that point to the Timber wharf, Carring-
ton, as 20ft. 6in. The plan also indicates
that a shoal now extends, at a depth of
19ft., from the southern end of the
Timber wharf to 140 ft. off the wharf and
runs in a southerly direction, parallel
with the shore, for 720 ft. The datum for
all these depths is low-water at ordinary
spring-tide.
An immediate effect of these astound-
ing and calamitous figures will be to close
Newcastle to all ships with a draught
of more than 20ft. As a result the major
shipping interests have decided to offload,
completely, at Port Kembla. The impact
of this decision on Newcastle business
will be tragic—particularly in view of
the decrepit state of the already-over-
loaded Kembla-Newcastle railway-track,
which for heavy items provides the only
alternative to sea 7 transport.
In a letter to Premier Cahill which in
the circumstances is remarkably
restrained, the Newcastle Chamber of
Commerce “respectfully suggests” that
dockyard-repairs to the suction-dredge
Richard Vowell (completion now ex-
pected in three months) be expedited;
that all dredge-repairs receive urgent
priority; that the new suction-cutter
dredge be retained for work in the B.H.P.
swinging-basin, which is rapidly silting-
up; that the existing outdated and
expensively-maintained units be replaced
by efficient equipment; and that, if the
outdated dredges cannot be replaced,
then dredging by contract be undertaken.
A deputation from the Chamber will
shortly be meeting the responsible
Ministers and officials to bring once
again to their notice the extreme gravity
of the situation. Unfortunately, however,
unfulfilled promises do not deepen ship-
ping-channels, to which every day brings
down more silt.
Stone Wall Ahead
The “occasional address” delivered by
Dr. Coombs, governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, at the conferring-of-degrees
ceremony at the N. S. Wales University
of Technology should have provided
balm for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and little comfort for “Labor”
financiers who used to swear by Dr.
Coombs as an economist and expounder
of fiscal policy.
Pointing out that Australia was going
through a period of very rapid develop-
ment, particularly in manufacturing,
Dr. Coombs said that this expansion
called for “resources of men, equipment
and materials which, if used for this pur-
pose, were not available for the produc-
tion of goods and services for current
consumption.” Limits were imposed on
our rate of development by our willing-
ness or unwillingness to release resources
by saving from current income.
While this fact was generally recog-
nised, it was not also generally realised
that our rate of manufacturing develop-
ment was limited by our capacity to spend
outside Australia, any development in this
countiy naturally leading to at least some
expenditure outside it on materials, com-
ponents and equipment, also often in-
volving payments for services as well as
for interest and profits on overseas
capital.
During the past three or four years
the funds available from exports, bor-
rowing and the usage of international
reserves had become inadequate for our
needs abroad. We had been spending
more than £5OO million a year on
materials, components and equipment for
the manufacturing industries and, in
addition, had remitted tens of millions
for service-charges and profits of over-
seas-owned enterprises.
Against these needs exports of manu-
factured goods, excluding simply pro-
cessed primary products, could earn us
little more than £lOO million:
Indeed, if we add together the earnings of
exports of manufactured goods and the
capital which comes from abroad to
finance the development of manufacturing,
the total does little more than cover the
cost of purchases of equipment and the
remittance of profits and service-charges,
leaving little or nothing to help cover the
much greater cost of imports of materials.
Dr. Coombs is only too right in saying
that “frankly this is not a very impressive
performance in the light of economic
problems facing Australia at the present
time.” The country is faced with a
serious challenge which it will have to
meet.
The manufacturing industries are com-
ing to the stage at which they will find
development facing a crisis through lack
of overseas funds. Dr. Coombs’s figures
add another argument, strongly put, in
favor of the Commonwealth’s urgent
demand that the leaching-away of over-
seas reserves must be checked. They also
argue for a survey, and a concerted
national attempt to exploit, the export-
markets around the shores of the Pacific
and to secure the co-operation of the
unions and every other interest in
capturing them.
Suburban Symphony
“Mac Hoots”: After the clamor of the
week in the city, how heavenly is the
quiet in which Pymble —like, I am sure,
all the other Sydney suburbs —reposes
all the glorious day of Sunday!
The air of Saturday night, when the
last power-drill from the backyard work-
shops has ceased to burp through the
radio and the man down the road with
the concrete-mixer has fallen into it, has
a delicious country smell, compounded in
this April weather, of mould, ditch-
water and frogs ; and the last thing you
hear before you fall asleep is the lullaby
of frogs and crickets.
Grr-grr-grr-fitz-ow-ow-OW ! —it is rare
indeed to be disturbed in the night by
anything but the usual cat-fight; and
these (“Get to out of that, you
—/) are very quickly settled, for half-
an-hour or so, when they break out again,
by boots, potatoes, profanity and,
occasionally, gunfire from the neighbors
over the back and side fences.
Three a.m., and a silent, foggy night.
Jingle - fingle-
The milkman cometh. Well, you must
have milkmen ; and it is notorious all the
world over that milkmen, a strange, noc-
turnal tribe, like to be early on the job.
It is something to do with the habits of
cows, or cockies, or Mr. Jackie Ferguson
of the Milk Board.
There, is not a sound in the world.
Everything, except the 16 kookaburras on
the clothesline, wahooing like the devil,
is utterly tranquil.
And sweet indeed it is, having
been thoroughly awakened by cats, milk-
men and kookaburras, to hear the magpie
aijd the fluting butcher-bird. Even when
Mr. Polperro over the side-fence has been
at his busiest putting up the extra room
to accommodate his growing family he
has never been known to start hammering
before 6 a.m. And if the baby cries a
little, with a clear small Wa-wa-wa! so
heartrending that our ancient black she-
cat has been known to start maternally
miaouing in sympathy, you must expect
babies in the suburbs. Everybody has
them. They seem to come naturally. It
is the peace and quiet that does it; the
remoteness from the barren, mechanical
uproar and insensate haste of the city.
They pop up in all directions and on hot,
steamy nights they all sing together.
Brrp-brrp-brrp-BANG! Aha, the
battle commenceth. Thompson is up
early with his motor-mower this morn-
ing. Thaf will keep the paspalum down.
Last week his wife and four children got
(i Continued, on next page)


lost in it, in their own backyard. Even-
tually they were discovered, and rescued,
by helicopter.
“Will you get out of that puddle,
Edward !” Life itself, the whole richness
of the human adventure, floats over the
back fence. Young Eddie, and Mabel,
too, it appears, are playing in the mud.
Ding-dong ding-dong ding-dong! Per-
haps, even if just before breakfast is a
little early, it would be better if they ran
off and bought themselves an ice-cream.
Brrp-bang.
It is an interesting question, really,
which makes the more melodious row,
a motor-mower or an electric-mower.
Take Havishams’ electric machine, now;
in fact, you can’t do anything else but
take it. It goes mmm-MMM-mmm-
MMM-mmm-MMM with a kind of
high-pitched buzzing whine, very sooth-
ing indeed if you are fond of the letter
“M.” Occasionally, when it hits a stone
in the paspalum, it makes a surprising
whirr-and-crackle, rather like a rocket
setting out for the moon. It never does
set out though.
On the other hand, though the O’Learys
seem to be having a little trouble with
theirs this morning— BANG ! BANG !
POP ! Bangety-bang - bang - POP - POP-
POP ! a motor-mower when it settles
down, like Regan’s answering Thomp-
son’s and O’Leary’s over the hill —and,
good gracious, I see that the Mac-
Gregors have got an electric-mower now,
too: I wonder where they got the MMM-
mmm-MMMONEY —a motor-mower, as
I say Ding-dong ding-dong ding-
dong-dingle-dingle-dingle-dingle! Well, I
always say, a man needs an ice-cream
regularly every hour on Sunday morning
to keep his strength up —a motor-mower,
as I was trying to say, can make a
pleasant putt-putt-putt and spluttering
sort of noise, like a launch far out at
sea, in danger of sinking. And would it
were.
The native thrush hath been heard in
this district. Even now it flitteth from
shrub to shrub, calling its sweet call as
it flitteth. The sun shines upon the tall
rows of corn, which ten-thousand snails
are chewing. It is the hour of Sunday-
dinner, eaten gruesomely at noon.
‘‘Mabel, did you go and sit in that
puddle, with your clean frock on? I’ll
beat you!” Does. “ Edward, didn’t I
tell you to keep her out of that- puddle?
I’ll beat you too!” Does. The lamen-
tation of children with smacked bottoms
pierceth the high heavens. Life goes on.
Well, there is nothing like an ice-cream
after dinner, don’t you think, ding-dong
ding-dong ? And how exhilarating,
really, is the spectacle of stalwart
suburban men, tillers of the soil as each
one is in his heart, shirt off, strong
hairy legs protruding from the shorts,
sweat pouring from the forehead, the
shop and the office forgotten, mowing
their patches of meadow.
Never while they t:an trundle a machine
around, fortified by ice-cream and not
sliced by their motor-mowers nor electro-
cuted by the severed cords of their elec-
tric-mowers, shall the paspalum grow
more than two inches long at Pymble!
No, by heavens! Brrp-brrp-bang-pop,
ding-dong ding-dong mmm-MMM-mmm-
MMM-mmm, putt-putt-putt-putt, ding-
dong. ding-dong dingle-dingle-dangle-
jingle, pop-pop-pop BANG!
POLITICAL POINTS
Creek, one of Playford’s favorite babies,
but the Commonwealth Railways would
lose the haulage of about a million tons
a year. It looks like a Menzies-Playford
battle of wits.
• ®
Bogoljub Rancic, a naturalised Aus-
tralian whose former country, Yugo-
slavia, was* trying to extradite him to
face charges of stealing from the Gov-
ernment, was discharged' by M. S.
Meagher, S.M., on Friday, after the Com-
monwealth Government had intervened
and had said that it would not deliver-up
Rancic. Rancic had maintained that he
was entirely innocent of the charge and
that the application for his extradition
was purely political. He had no doubt
that he would be killed if he were sent
back to Yugoslavia.
After his discharge Rancic said that
his case was but the beginning of a care-
fully-prepared plan “to bring confusion
and terror to New and Old Australians.”
• •
The abolition of the Cominform on the
eve of the Bulganin-Khrushchev visit to
Britain is to be taken about as seriously
as the abolition of the Comintern. It
seems to be proof that B. and K. believe
they can do their own dirty work in
Western countries better than satellite
bodies. Already the Communist parties
in India, Burma and Britain have their
noses out of joint, being virtually ignored
by Soviet Government visitors.
• •
Evatt and Co. are very annoyed at the
sale of the Commonwealth whaling-
G. G. Pearson becomes South Aus-
tralian Minister for Agriculture and
Forests in succession to the late A. W.
Christian. A farmer from Eyre Pen-
insula, he served with the R.A.A.F. in
“the war, is 49 and has represented
Flinders in the S.A. Assembly for five
years. He won the seat when his brother
Rex resigned it in 1951 to enter the
Senate.
• •
In Russia, according to the “Tribune,”
the Soviet working-day has been cut to
six hours on days preceding a public
holiday. This is proclaimed as the
“first instalment of a cut in hours.” Later
instalments will, presumably, bring • the
Soviet system closer to the Australian —a
whole weekend off preceding public
holidays.
• •
Argument between the Commonwealth
and South Australian Governments is
holding-up plans for trebling the output
of the Port Augusta powerhouse, fuelled
by Leigh Creek coal. The Common-
wealth Railways have been hauling coal
from Leigh Creek to the powerhouse for
about a ha’penny a ton-mile, but some
months ago they proposed a steep
increase—the “Advertiser” understands
the suggested rate to be 4d. a ton-mile.
Play ford is willing for the rate to go up
—but not as far as that.
There’s talk of dropping all thought of
extending the Port Augusta plant and of
building the station near Port Adelaide
instead. This would be a blow to Leigh
Comintern . . . Cominform . . . Comin-
suckers!
• •
Federal Parliament rose on Thursday
till May 1, having rushed through halt-
a-dozen financial bills at top pace, includ-
ing the Customs and Excise Bill validat-
ing the amendments introduced in the
“little Budget.” It is wonderful how
little inclination there is to debate when
there’s a holiday in the offing.
• •
It used to be argued that higher salaries
would attract better types of men to
Parliament. It hasn’t worked-out that
way, and no one really expects the pro-
posed Richardson increases to improve
the standard.
• •
On the advice of Hutcheon, Q.C.,
leader of the Queensland Bar, that the
allegations made at the Lands commis-
sion made out a prima facie case against
former Lands Minister Foley, a charge
is to be brought against Foley under
section 442 b of the Criminal Code, which
refers to the receipt or solicitation of
secret commissions or gifts. The Lands
commission was set-up to inquire into
allegations made in the Federal Parlia-
ment by Senator Wood. In the course
of its proceedings F. M. Bell, a grazier,
said that Foley had told him in 1949 that
a lease he desired could be arranged if
he donated £lOOO to “Labor”-party
funds. Foley denied the allegations and,
at his own request, was relieved of his
portfolio.
• •
Announced in Canberra that after May
10 Australians will be able to visit
Turkey without first obtaining visas. Back
to 1915?
• •
Parkes (N.S.W.) is to receive a
memorial to its namesake. This will take
the form of an oak plaque carved from
the roof-timbers of the Guildhall at
Coventry, England. The carving depicts
Moat House Cottage, Canley, near
Coventry, the birthplace of Sir Henry
Parkes, and is a gift from the Coventry
City Council.
• •
Capital-Territory Fraser, brother to
Eden-Monaro F., suggested importing
Brazilian' rabbits because, being immune
to myxo., they might serve to increase the
virulence of the disease against the local
bunnies, which are said to be building-up
resistance to it. Casey knocked the idea
back, saying that we got the myxo. from
Brazil in the first place. He should also
have asked Fraser how he proposed to
keep the Brazilian bunnies under control
once he got them here.
IT'S ALL THE SAME TO THE WHALE!
The permissible quota of the Carnarvon whaling-station raider its
new owners will be the same as it was under Government ownership.
station at Carnarvon (W.A.), and are
making much ado about selling the
peoples’ assets” and so on. The sound
and fury are all a lot of nonsense. There’s
no more reason why the Government
should engage in the whaling business
than there is for it to conduct sheep-
stations. The Whaling Commission has
performed a very fine job in demonstrat-
ing that whaling can be profitably
carried-out from shore-bases on the Aus-
tralian coast, but now that the industry
is established the Government has done
the right thing in withdrawing from the
field. Socialists, of course, don’t think
so, but the Menzies Government was first
elected in 1949 on an anti-socialisation
platform—and the people have returned
it to office three times since then.
Money received from the sale of the
whaling-station will be devoted to
fisheries-development, but this doesn’t
mean Government fish-shops.
• •
Some people are deriving benefit from
the new anti-Stalin line. In Moscow the
relatives of four leading Jewish writers
who were arrested in 1944 Were a few
days ago called before the Public Prose-
cutor, who announced that the missing
quartet had been executed in 1948 due
to a “regrettable error” for which the
wicked Beria was responsible, but that
their memories would be rehabilitated.
And in Hungary the trial of Rajk,
Foreign Minister, who was executed in
1949 after confessing abjectly that he
was a spy for the “imperialists, has been
“revised” by the Supreme Court to
exculpate him.
• •
While stout males of the opposing
factions of “Labor” in N.S.W. spent most
of last week glowering at each other from
a distance, their womenfolk really let
their hair down and gave their tongues a
free rein. The occasion was a conference
of the A.L.P. Women’s Central Organis-
ing Committee, and the rumpus began
when a batch of delegates were told that
their qualifications weren’t in order. Mrs.
Gertrude Melville, M.L.C., an anti-
Grouper supporter, who was in the chair,
thereupon ruled that the delegates should
be allowed to stay. Then the fun-and-
games started.
The din that followed would have done
credit to the girls of St. Trinians, with
Groupers and anti-Groupers telling each
other, with and without microphones, just
what they thought of each other. Mrs.
Melville, accompanied by a bevy of
supporters, left the hall, saying that the
meeting had been “postponed.” A
larger section, apparently Groupers,
stayed behind, placed Mrs. McCarney in
the chair and proceeded with the meet-
ing. Next day a meeting of the walk-out
party, chaired by Mrs. Melville, called
upon the Federal Executive to deal with
the Groupers.
• •
“Benbow”: Queensland State electoral
rolls! As a candidate for the forth-
coming State election I personally signed
six-thousand letters, individually posted
to persons whose names appear on the
roll of the constituency which I am con-
testing. At the rate of about twenty
per day these are being returned to the
P.O. box-number printed on the
envelopes, as undeliverable because the
addressee is unknown at the address.
This is supported by a Post Office stamp.
Inquiry at the State Electoral Office has
proved that nothing can be done about
it. Clearly none of these phantom
electors is going to vote for me, but
what worries me is—are they going to
vote against me?
• •
“Mugga Way”: Will the great new
rice-growing project for the Northern
Territory use the rice-straw for making
fine rice-paper, as is done in Java and
elsewhere? This seems an interesting, if
comparatively small, aspect of the plan.
And if cattle graze on the fallow areas
in the half-million acres to be devoted
to the crop will they produce a revival
of the export-beef market in Darwin?
• •
The Moscow Circus is to tour Britain
in May. The two advance-visits by the
three clowns is expected to whip-up great
interest in the forthcoming tour of the
Big Top.
• •
“In the ACT”: When commercial
flying first started, the pilot and his first-
officer certainly had few modern naviga-
tional aids. There was no radio-contact
and no automatic pilot, but at the same
time there was far less paper-work, and
fewer troubles with people on the ground.
Now the radio which forms a constant
link with controls is to be supplemented
by ground-to-air teleprinter-services, just
installed on a 8.0.A.C. Stratocruiser on
the London-New York run. This receives
essential flight-information and presents
it to the pilot, during flight, in the form
of a typewritten sheet. It makes life
up there less lonely, no doubt, but adds
another stress at the same time.
• •
Cahill has asked an American firm of
business consultants, Ebasco Services, to
report on how an inquiry into N. S.
Wales transport should be conducted,
how long it should take and how much
it would cost. This is taken to mean
that it is intended that Ebasco should
itself conduct the inquiry and tell the
Government what to do to put the State
transport-system back on the rails.
The announcement raises hopes that
the Cahills really intend to do something
to stop the rot, but . . . ! Inquiries have
been held before and advice sought
from experts in other States and from
overseas. But the .reports have been
pigeonholed and the advice ignored.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
servicemen in Malaya will by now
have picked-up a smattering of the
Malay language. They will find the
Malays have a very picturesque way of
expressing themselves. A policeman is a
“mata-mata,” mata being the Malay for
“eye,” and the plural is formed by dupli-
cating the noun. A detective is a “mata-
gelap,” gelap meaning “dark” or “secret.”
Whilst on the word “mata,” the sun is
“mata-hari” —“eye-of-the-day.” When a
Malay goes for a walk it is a “makan
angin” —“eat-air” ; “cliakap angin” is to
talk , nonsense (“air”). Perhaps their
quaintest expression is their name for an
express-train, “kerata sombong” —“proud
train,” from its habit of passing through
stations without stopping! —“Orang
Puteh.”
»*♦ ♦♦♦
“Sister Ellell”: This Anzac Day I
wonder if I’ll see an ex-Digger patient
again. I nursed him at a forward hos-
pital, so when we met last year I said to
him, “You had asthma, didn’t you?”
“Oh, yes,” quoth he, “and plenty else
besides ; everything else in the bile-bean-
book from fallen arches to a dropped
stomach! But no need to worry about
me stomach, Sister, they’ve put ’er back ;
four stitches in her . . . and never more’n
three in a chaff-bag! ”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: When Earl Mountbatten,
as Supremo of S.E.A.C., visited Calcutta
he made time in his crammed official
schedule to meet hundreds- of small-fry
women voluntary-workers in canteens and
hospitals ; chatting to one, he asked about
her family, and she told him she had two
sons, one in the Eighth A,rmy and one
in the Fleet Air Arm —and that she hadn’t
seen either for five years. Within 24
hours a dazed young naval pilot was on
his mother’s doorstep inquiring: “What’s
the dizzy flap, Mum?”
❖ ❖ *>
“Sluefoot”: Guitar-toting Mr. Mani-
fold, Brisbane poet, ballad-singer and
ballad-collector, treated Queensland Uni-
versity students to a 90-minute lecture
, crammed with information about the
1 ballad, good jokes and songs, and, above
all, intense scholarship, and asked if
there were any questions. “Yes, Mr.
Manifold,” answered an extremely cul-
tured voice from the rear of the lecture-
hall. “You mentioned that drover-ballads
have no chorus. Why on earth is that?”
Without a smile, Manifold replied: “You
know, in all my years of experience, never
yet have I come across a Hereford or
an Aberdeen Angus partial to a chorus.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Two Jays”: What streak in human
nature causes the makers of hearing-aids
to boast that they are now so small as
to be “almost invisible,” while the makers
of sight-aids are making them bigger and
brighter than ever?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hadrian”: Unsuccessful in its adver-
tising for a bearded Brisbanite willing
to lose his beard for a £5 fee, an electric-
shaver firm recruited a bearded ancient
from an old men’s home as guinea-pig at
a press-conference display. The Irish-
born recruit was a model of joviality till
the presiding sales-manager asked him if
he was prepared to proceed with the
demonstration. His reply was to the
effect that only if he was in a state of
alcoholic paralysis could anyone come
between him and his beard. Urgently
ushered outside by the flabbergasted
sales-chief, salesman and ancient returned
minutes later with beatific faces and an
announcement that the demonstration
would proceed. Pop had discovered that
the firm had arranged to pay the £5 to
the proprietors of the home. A hastily-
offered fiver from the sales-chief, and
they could shave every hair from his phiz
—which they did without delay. As a
precaution, a firm-representative escorted
ancient and fiver back to the home.
*i* *
“Pevin”: The old hand on the school
staff was glad the inspectors were coming
in April instead of September: “By
April the kids have not done enough new
work to get you into trouble, and after
April there’s a long spell till Christmas
without worrying whether they do any or
not.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“K.W.H.”: A wharflaborer acquaint-
ance, furnishing a house in a Melbourne
outer suburb, went looking for linoleum
and found there wasn’t much to choose
from. In one shop he made a rather
pointed remark to the effect that maybe
the linoleum was being held back for a
price-rise. The shop-assistant answered:
“I’m very sorry, sir, but we have hardly
any lino, at the moment. When the ship
came in with new stocks the wharfies were
on strike, so they just had to take it back
to England.”
*} »J»
“W.P.T.”: Our commemorative
postage-stamps depict great Australian
men, but I cannot recall one stamp de-
picting a great Australian woman. Not
Truganinni, the last of the Tasmanian
aborigines ; Caroline Chisholm, who did
more for migrant girls than any other
woman; Margaret Catch£>ole, whose
name was a household-word in the
N.S.W. Hawkesbury River district;.
Daisy Bates, so well known for her work
among the aborigines ; or Nellie Melba.
And it’s time Melba made another fare-
well-appearance.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: There’s one Sunday when
the singing at the chapel of our Sydney
G.P.S. goes haywire—on the day after
“You know the rules , Miss Frip , NO PETS!”
the Nepean regatta. Ones, after our
eight astonished itself and everyone else
by romping in Head of the River, the
choristers were rushed back to school to
sing at the wedding of a prominent “old
boy” who’d chosen that evening to get
tied-up. “The Voice that breathed” was
singularly appropriate—you couldn’t
hear any vocal tone, only breath, the
voices having gone with the win.
❖ +♦♦
“Mugga Way”: Canberra is a little
blase about celebrities, but quite a crowd
of typists and House officials lined the
steps of Parliament House when Lord
Mountbatten arrived for luncheon. The
First Sea Lord gave them better value for
their money than any other celebrity they
have seen. He paused on his way up the
steps, saluted to both sides, smiled,
remarked that it was a nice day, and
passed on to the accompaniment of a
rising murmur of appreciation.
“Pip Tok”: The Prime Minister’s fall
in the bath during his visit to Perth, and
his replies to those who quizzed him on
the rumor that he might go to London,
have given Westralia the furphy that
he has no interest in the High Commis-
sionership but intends to embrace the
Anglican faith with the object of being
created Bishop of Bath and Wells.
+*♦ *£♦
“M.H.”: A workmate touring in a
car spotted a lad riding a bike on an
overhead bridge on the wrong side of the
road and called a joke to him about
getting hit by a car. His 10-year-old
niece said, “You should laugh; that’s
your bike he’s riding!”
♦♦♦ *** *i*
“Cash Count”: It was a copy-book
savings : account. Starting with five-bob
from his first pay-envelope, the lad had
“saved something every pay-day” until
his pass-book showed a balance of £320.
He made his first withdrawal yesterday—
a bank-cheque for £300; not, as you
might imagine, payment for his first car.
The cheque was to pay for 100 lessons at
the Australian offshoot of an American
ballroom-dancing school; £3 a lesson.
And to think that my mates and I
acquired all the terpsichorean skill we’ve
needed for a reasonable social whirl at
four-bob a three-hour lesson,!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: Stimulated by local cen-
tenary celebrations, Williamstown (Vic.)
Arts Council has retrieved a 6ft.-diameter
copper ball which used to indicate Green-
wich Mean Time by dropping from a
masthead at 1 p.m. daily. Erected on a
tower at Point Gellibrand in 1852 and
dismantled about 1920, when radio-pips
began to herald the hourly G.M.T., the
contrivance was a guide to sea-captains
setting their chronometers while in port.
The tower now accommodates a naviga-
tion-light. The ball, having gathered dust
in a store-room for 35 years, is to
surmount in polished dignity a memorial
to Williamstown’s salt-tanged history.
❖ *l* ♦♦♦
“Baksac”: “Car”-radio has become
a misnomer: with every second truck on
the road piping or pipping as it goes
along, the name must soon be changed
to “vehicle”-radio. Not all motorists
approve of this adoption of a luxury
device by utilitarian vehicles: the fellow,
for instance, who had his tiny car jammed
against a lamp-post by a huge truck,
whose radio was giving tongue to the
rollicking chorus “I wanna be near you.”
tjt »£*
“Old Mac”: A very early reference to
Australian wines in a U.K. magazine is
in “Chambers’s Edinburgh Journal” of
1848:
A single land-owner, Mr. McArthur, has
made in one year 17,000 gallons of wine
which, when bottled, has been sold for
20s. a dozen at Sydney.
Quite a price when wages, with rations,
ranged from 4s. 6d. a day for laborers
to 12s. 6d. a day for shearers, with meat
at 3d., bread at 3d. and potatoes at
id.-ld.-a-lb.
♦jf
“Allan B.”: The struggling country
rector at last got the inevitable note from
his weary garage that his “car” had just
about reached the end of its tether.
Must’ve commented on it at the lunch-
table, for later in the day he was
astounded to read some lettering chalked
all over the church notice-board: “The
Rev. O ’s birthday is on the —th of
next month. Please bring money to Mrs.
O to get him a new car. Please.’
And the nine-year-olti daughter signed
her own name . . . Can’t say if this went
over or not.
THE ARROW AND THE SONG
“Parents should be warned against allowing
their children to play with bows and arrows,
said the medical superintendent of St. George
Hospital, Sydney.”
I shot an arrow into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where
Till I heard Doctor Storey cry,
“You’ve hit young Jonesy in the eye /”
I breathed a song into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where;
This caused the Doctor no distress:
Follow a song? He couldn’t care less.
Yet a critic took my song apart
And ground the splinters into my heart:
Shooting an arrow may be wrong,
But it’s suicide to write a song.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


SYDNEY’S invaluable Mr. Andronicus,
the coffee-man, is selling Spanish
olive-oil labelled “Extra Virgin.” It
frightens me. —“Mac Hoots.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: There’s something in
being too shy! A rara avis these days;
but one such young Nightingale was sent
a five-quid book of tickets in an inter-
state art-union for disposal ... Too
shy to ask anybody to buy one, she sent
the fiver herself. And what did she
get? A six-cylinder caf!
“Jake”: A Brisbane solicitor was out
each time the traffic-constable called with
a parking-summons, so the constable
telephoned his quarry’s
office to make an appoint-
ment. Thus the summons
was served. After a court-
appearance resulting in a
fine, the solicitor billed the
policeman for three-guineas
consultation - fees. The
account was ignored, until
the solicitor pressed for pay-
ment, making a guinea profit
out of the affair.
♦j+ *
“TD.W.”: Drawn at
Wellington (N.Z.) on Feb-
ruary 28, ticket 193806 won
first-prize of £5OOO in the
“Leap Year” art-union.
So far, though lots of old
tickets have been submitted,
dinkum claim for the cash
has yet to turn up. If after
three months the right claim
isn’t lodged the little nest-
egg will go into the
unclaimed-prizes trust of
the Department of Internal
Affairs.
“Rimutuka”: The green sedan bore
down on the line of cars slowing for a
tram, Swerved wildly round the last one,
flew between the leader and the tram,
just missed a parked vehicle on the left,
shot across a “zebra” in front and
vanished at speed into the distance. On
the rear window a slogan in large print
read: “Courtesy is Catching.” Wonder
if he’s caught it yet?
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Eureka”: Giving the race-results after
the last race, a Sydney whizz-by wise-guy
said: “McGrowdie rode four winners out
of five mounts. If you had placed one
pound on his first mount, and played it
all up the others, you would have won
over £30,000.” More precisely, you would
have lost your pound, because all your
winnings and your pound would have
been on his last mount, which ran last.
♦♦♦ ♦+♦ ❖
“Macquarie”: The plumber, typical of
his breed, had left his blowlamp precari-
ously standing near where he’d last used
it. Because I hate to see good tools
damaged I warned Snips: “If I were you
I’d take that blowlamp away before it
gets knocked off.” He did; but as he
passed me he growled, “What sort of men
have you got round this job, anyhow?
There’s nothing lower than a hound
who’d pinch a man’s tools.” Our
slanguage can be ambiguous.
❖ +> ❖
“Bunya”: Reported that Mrs. Kelly,
mother of- Princess Grace, “perturbed”
at the commercialism of her daughter’s
wedding, had complained that the whole
thing had “got out of hand.” But many
would consider either of those birds out
of hand better than one in the bush.
“Bo”: Now that it’s all over over
there, long-suffering newspaper-readers
hope there will be no resurgence of all the
guff they’ve been fed about heirs and
Graces. *
»> ♦♦♦
“Pevin”: No doubt about our sports-
men being specialists. On the same quiz-
programme, broadcast from Melbourne
Town Hall, Neil Harvey missed-out on
a racing question, and jockey W.
Hutchinson named O’Reilly as a Victorian
cricketer.
*s*
“Sackfair”: Mention in Oliver Filter’s
excellent article “The Machines and the
Men” (B. 28/3/’56) that a John Dixon
owned and operated N. S. Wales’s first
steam-engine, on the site of the present
Trades Hall in Sydney, points to the
origin of the name of a short street near
by, and, incidentally, explains what
Dixon used the engine for —Steammill-
street.
*Z* ❖
“Chalker”: Yes, it is difficult to deter-
mine whether bowling is a young man’s
or an old man’s game. Was competing
at a bowling-carnival at Latrobe, on the
Speck’s north-west coast, and at the com-
pletion of an end on one rink four bowls
were touching the kitty. The players ages
ranged from the early-twenties to the
late-seventies.
%
&
“Doynest”: “Beat the Petrol Rise! ”an
advertisement advises me, inviting me to
inspect and buy a new car with an
“amazingly low” petrol-consumption —
less than half that of my present pre-war
bus, in fact. It’s an enticing offer; but
the most optimistic appraisal of my old
bus’s trade-in value would still leave
about £7OO to pay-off on the petrol-
economising substitute. On my current
mileage, it would take me 14 years to
save £7OO on petrol; so it looks as if I’ll
be sticking to Old Faithful... unless, that
is, the new-car dealers would allow me
14 years to pay.
i* ❖ ❖
“W.P.H.”: There’s an effective way
practised by Sydney chain-stores of cir-
cumventing customers who claim change
for a note of a higher denomination than
that tendered (B. 11*/4/’56). It is one of
the rules that before a note is put in the
till the salesgirl must obtain confirmation
of the amount from another employee,
This is why you hear the request to
“check one-pound” or “check ten-
shillings” whenever you tender a note,
Many people have the mistaken idea that
the check is to ensure that the note goes
into the till.
* * *
“J.D.W.”: Kaikohe (N?Z.) didn’t for-
get the visit of Earl Mountbatten (B.
18/4/’56) after all. Apparently the
Northland town wasn’t even given a
warning shot. On the other hand, at
“I detest wind — don’t you ?”
Christchurch, take-off point for Australia,
heads of the armed forces, there to see
him off, waited in rain at the wrong part
of the airport (no one told ’em plans had
been changed), and neither of two
promised press-conferences eventuated.
»> ❖
“R.A.C.”: A man in W.A. has his pay
in his wife’s hands five-minutes after
he’s paid. He straps it to the leg of his
carrier-pigeon.
“Candied”: A parcel weighing 71b.
sent by parcels-post from Cairns (Q.) to
Renmark (S.A.) calls for Bs. 4d. prepaid
postage. The same parcel sent to England
travels a further 10,000 miles for 6s. lOd.
How come?
*l* ❖ ❖
“Sparks”: A London newspaper-
reader, in a letter to the paper on the
teenage-problem, has suggested that con-
victed “Teddy Boys” should be given a
choice of serving a prison-term or being
deported to Canada or Australia. May-
be a few bodgies deported to London in
exchange would convince the English
that Australia i£ no longer a convict-
settlement. ,
“Dorian”: Under the cafe menu head-
ing “Hot Suggestions,” a neatly-pencilled
“Marilyn Monroe.”
' ❖ ❖
“Metax”: Since our electricity-depart-
ment cut it out there is no one left who
will give me a bit of discount when I
pay an account. In my latest experience
the shopkeeper not only accepted most of
my fortnightly pay —even to the odd half-
penny on the bill—but tried to unload an
unstamped receipt on me. Surely the time
must be coming when an extra fee will
be charged for the privilege of being
allowed to pay-off a debt! *
* ♦> ❖
“Tom Trout”: I came out of the cafe-
restaurant to find practically the entire
population of this French village in the
Bas-Rhin gaping at my travelled bike
(English, pedal-variety) as though it had
been Lady Docker’s latest masterpiece.
“Anglais, vous?” one ventured. “Austra-
lien,” I replied. “Ah! Seedney!” It was
a cry of ecstasy. Between pumping my
hand in Gallic fervor and ejaculations of
“Belle! tres belle !” the little bloke man-
aged to explain that as a merchant-sea-
man during the war he’d had the honor
of spending some time in my home-town.
I got set for the peroration, smugly
anticipating the commendation of our
’arbor, our beaches, our sunny outdoor
life, maybe even our culture as expressed
in that fine group by his countryman the
Archibald Fountain. I got it, all right
—a man-of-the-world thump on the
chest, a leering eye, and: “Keeng’s
Crross! Zose gairls, eh!
* * *
.. u f
“Bis”: References it isn t always
what they say, but what they dont. A
high-spirited lad who spent two years on
the staff of a conservative bank practi-
cally wore out the mat before it was
decided that his talents could be put to
better use elsewhere. With his usual sang-
froid he asked for a reference, and to
his surprise it was given willingly. He
could hardly wait to open it: “Mr. Blank
has been in our employ for two years.
We wish him well.”
THE V.C.s GO TO LONDON
When Jacka got the Glorious Cross and
Snowy Howell and Bede and Joe,
The Guards turned out and the King was
proud and he told the British
Empire so,
Whether they came from plains or town
or whether they drank their whisky
The Victoria Cross was on their chests
and the Kaiser was waiting for his
defeat.
In the gap of the years a V.C.’s mark
meant little enough to the milk-bar
crew, , „
For the peg-top pants and the scissored-
skulls knew nothing of World
Wars One or Two.
Their goal was a widgie’s goodnight kiss
or the howl of a local be-bop boy,
And they hated “squares’ and they hated
men and their minds were a
saveloy.
As they did their training they moaned
and wept when the barber’s shears
cut their frowsy curls
And a cold meal after a route-march
meant their frenzied complaints to
their milk-bar girls.
Yet / like to feel they’re the same old
mob who rush to the flag when the
war-horns blow,
And, man for man when the war-whips
crack, will join with the great like
Jacka and Joe.
When the Queen looks down in a month
or two on the men who had gained
Victoria’s Cross,
She will see from our own land a Digger
or two whom the years have
blessed and the fates can’t toss.
And when in the Mall the Lifeguards trot
and the Footguards’ march has
changed from slow
Her Majesty’s equerries, shrewd and
bland, will show her the men like
Jacka —and Joe.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.
VIEW MAT.
“Widow, around 40, neat, lively, cooking-
demonstrator, seeks friendship slim, presentable
widower. View mat,” — Advt.
Indeterminate her age
(And in that she’s pretty sage ) —
Which side of forty she declines to
mention.
But that she’s still trig and trim,
With a vast reserve of vim
She brings most carefully to close
attention.
She’d be one, you cannot doubt,
You’d be proud to cart about.
But, wait! Right in the woodpile
there’s the nigger,
For the lady makes it plain
Hope must vanish for the swain
Who drags along a funny, pear-shaped
figure.
Bachelors, you’ve all been floored ;
None of you could be her lord!
Only ex-marital can be the winner;
And it’s my considered tip
That the job she wants to skip
Of breaking-in again a raw beginner.
She desires no handsome phiz,
Nor some tycoon in a biz.
She is a woman — and, therefore, a
riddle; *
But she’s clear upon one point:
That she’ll welcome to her joint
No one whose chassis bulges in the
middle.
Ah ! What a precious wife,
She who dedicated her life
Daily to the embellishment of fodder !
It must fire the interest-spark
Of the humorous bloke, the nark,
The brilliant fellow or the homely
plodder.
Well, there’s one must make the grade,
Who’ll receive the accolade,
And, afterwards, the title “Missus” dub
her.
But it certainly won’t be
Any man who cannot see
His knees, because he’s fifteen-stone of
blubber I
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEM S
Air-Vice-Marshal J. E. Hewitt, Air
Member for Supply and Equipment, who
has just reached retiring-age, pegged-up
41 years’ unbroken service in the RA.N.
and R.A.A.F., having entered the Naval
College at Jervis Bay as a “snottie.” He
saw active service in 1918 with the
Mediterranean Fleet, and transferred to
the R.A.A.F. in 1928. In the later war
he was Director of Air Intelligence in the
South-West Pacific and also commanded
No. 9 Operational-Group in New Guinea.
Air Member for Personnel during the
demob, period, he was subsequently Aus-
tralian defence rep. in London. Defence
Minister ( Mcßride described Hewitt’s
career as “one of unswerving sendee to-
his country.” Hewitt will be succeeded
temporarily as Air Officer Commanding,
Headquarters Maintenance Command, by
Group-Captain E. Hey, who will have the
acting rank of Air-Commodore.
• •
Herewith Burge Brown, progressive
cattleman from Murray Downs, 3000
square-miles of cattle-station north of the
Alice, down for a Canberra conference on
desert-reclamation. He gives credit to
Minister for Trade McEwen for having
inspired him, about six years back, with a
belief in what could be done in that line
to make the Territory self-supporting,
and he has now submitted a plan to the
Commonwealth which could lead to the
opening-up of the northern end of the
N.T. for cattle-fattening for beef-export
to the Near and Far East. He has been
assisted in experimental work by
BURGE BROWN
C.5.1.R.0., the N.T. Administration, and
various other organisations. Originally
from the Goulburn Valley small, town
of Corop (Vic.), and with five years in the
R.A.A.F. during War 11, he’s the father
of six girls and a boy—which probably
prompted his other scheme, that of
educating native children. Through him
the Government has started schools for
abo. youngsters on pastoral properties.
. • •
One of the new faces in the new Wes-
tralian Parliament is that of its youngest
member, 26-year-old Tom Evans, who
won the Kalgoorlie seat. A State school-
teacher, and a product of South Kal-
goorlie, he won the preselection ballot
last November from H. Styants, who was
then Minister for Transport and Rail-
ways. A protest, alleging minor technical
irregularities against Evans, led to his dis-
qualification by the A.L.P. State Execu-
tive and a refusal of the right to contest
another ballot for three years. Evans
successfully appealed, and Styants
decided not to seek re-election.
• •
“Fitz”: From time to time I get a
breezy letter from my old cobber “Storky”
Adams—Marmion Percy Greenwood
Adams on his birth-certificate—who,
before World War I, travelled Australia
with circuses and cinematographs and
contributed to The Bulletin and the old
“Lone Hand.*’ In 1911 his book The
Rich Uncle from Fiji and Some of his
Relatives, illustrated by Alek Sass, came
out —a complete exposure, in print and
picture, of the multifarious ways in which
a mug and his money are parted;
virtually nothing in the nature of a spiel
was omitted.
In his last letter to me Storky men-
tioned that he remembered Norman Lind-
say in his ’teens, when Norman was work-
ing for a “frowsy little crime-and-sporting
rag called The Hawklet,’ ” on the staff
of which was an old journalist named
Watty Watkins, who had sailed as a
supercargo with Bully Hayes. Watty
and Storky used to knock around with
Dan Barry, Alfred Dampier, the “Flying
Cosgroves,” and other theatrical person-
alities of the period.
For a long time now Storky has been
living in the United States, currently in an
exclusive Hollywood district which was
developed by silent-movie stars Rudolph
Valentino, Harold Lloyd and Milton Sills,
all of whom he knew. A highly-paid
lecturer, Storky has given upwards of
5000 talks on Australia, and says he is
always being asked for the words of
Banjo Paterson’s “The Bush Christening.”
A few years back “Life” magazine com-
missioned him to do a three-page article
on the boomerang, which was illustrated
with photographs of Storky throwing the
weapon. It has been said about him that
if he found himself alone in Antarctica
he would round-up an audience of pen-
guins to talk to about his native land.
• •
Arthur William Coles, former Federal
member for Henty (Vic.), former Lord
Mayor of Melbourne, former chairman
of the Australian National Airlines Com-
mission, British Commonwealth Pacific
Airlines, Commonwealth Rationing Com-
mission and War Damage Commission,
Old Digger, and one of the founders of
G. J. Coles, Ltd. (his uncle and brother
were the others), has been appointed to
the executive of C.5.1.R.0.
• •
President of the New Zealand Rugby
Union for its Springbok year, A. Kirk-
patrick, Hawke’s Bay, captained the first
Hawke’s Bay side to win the Ranfurly
Shield and played in 22 of 25 consecutive
challenge-matches. Played 87 times for
the Bay till 1926, all but 16 of the games
first-class provincial' fixtures ; was in the
North Island side in 1925, and that season
and the next crossed the Tasman with
Maoriland teams.
• •
First professor to be appointed to the
Westralian University’s new Medical
School, Gordon King will take the Chair
of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. He will
come from Hong Kong University, where
he holds a similar post and is also Vice-
Chancellor. A London graduate, he had
teaching-experience in Chinese universi-
ties —Peking and Chefoo—before* the
Hong Kong appointment in 1938. During
World War II he worked in the Chinese
Government’s National Hospital at
Chungking—O.B.E. Now 56, he is con-
sultant to the Hong Kong Government,
the Royal Navy and British land-forces
in Hong Kong, and is an honorary con-
sultant of R.P.A.H., Sydney. When he
has any spare time he acts as associate-
editor of the American Obstetrical and
Gynaecological Review.
• •
“J.D.W.”: Reference to R.A.S. vice-
president Thomas Brydone Macfarlane
and the founding of the Macfarlane
Corriedale flock in 1864 in New Zealand
(B. 28/3/’56) caught my eye. Driving
south on the main highway from
Oamaru (N.Z.) you spot a stone tower
on a hillock to the left —the Brydone
Memorial, commemorating the Thomas
Brydone who pioneered the shipping of
•frozen-meat from the Dominion. It
marks the Totara Estate, on which the
first sheep sent to London as frozen-
meat were raised. Nearly 30 miles north
of Invercargill is the locality known as
Brydone, presumably after the same man.
I assume that somewhere along the trail
the Brydones and the Macfarlanes inter-
married. Who knows the story?
• •
A footballer-plus:
Around Melbourne’s Essendon three or four
years ago every kid in the neighborhood sported
a football-guernsey with 10 on it—the number
always worn by full-forward John Coleman.
The most spectacular Australian Rules foot-
baller since the war, with an extraordinary leap
and remarkable judgment in high-marking,
Coleman was then at his peak. In 1948 he was
an unknown country-player; in 1949, his first
year in Melbourne’s tough League football, he
kicked 12 goals in his first game (a feat without
parallel for a recruit), became the first player
to head the League goal-kicking list in his first
season, broke Essendon’s goal-kicking record,
was. selected for Victoria, and won Essendon’s
best-and-fairest trophy.
Essendon won the premiership that year and
again the following year, 1950; and in 1951
reached the grand-final, but lost—when Cole-
man couldn’t play in that final game. In his
98 League games he kicked 537 goals all told,
twice kicking 13 goals in a match; in his five
full seasons he kicked 100, 120, 75, 103 and 97
goals respectively, to top the League goal-
kicking list in four of those five years.
In July, 1954, a knee-injury forced him out
of the game. Despite doctors’ warnings, Cole-
man has kept trying to fit himself to play again;
and this season, now 27 but still as unassuming
as when he started with Essendon, he turned-out
in a practice-game, drew a b'igger-than-usual
crowd to it, and shaped reasonably well. But,
realising his knee isn’t sound enough, he’s
called it a day. He’ll continue to rank as one of
the all-time greats in the code.
• •
A whiff of early State history came into
Fremantle with Lieutenant Sir Michael
Richardson-Bunbury, R.N., 28-year-old
Baron of Augher, here as a flag-
lieutenant to Rear-Admiral Roger
Wellby, who holds the three-decker
appointment of Chief of the U.K. Services
Liaison Staff, Senior Services Adviser to
the U.K. High Commissioner and repre-
sentative in Australia of the U.K. Chiefs
of Staff Committee. The young Baron is
great-great-grandson of Captain John
Molloy, who arrived in Westralia in 1829,
and great-grandson of William Bunbury,
after whom the out-port of Bunbury is
named. Succeeded to his title on
Trafalgar Day, 1953.
• •
“Goalsneak”: New full-time secretary
of St. Kilda Football Club in the Vic-
torian League, John Plunkett, has never
played Australian Rules football. A 33-
year-old South African, he was naturally
brought up on (and has played) Rugby
Union. He’s held one or two minor
administrative jobs with St. Kilda, and
says he’s quite converted to ’Rules.
• •
“Kesem”: The F. M. Bell who is a
central figure in the Land Royal Commis-
sion now being held in Brisbane is a
descendant of the Ensign Archibald Bell
who commanded the guard when Major
Johnston entered the gates of Govern-
ment House and arrested Bligh. Archi-
bald’s second son, another Archibald,
started out in 1823 hoping to discover
a possible route across the Blue Moun-
tains. On the second attempt he suc-
ceeded in marking and clearing a track
across the mountains until a junction had
been made with the road previously
marked by Lawson, Blaxland and Went-
worth. That road Was known as Bell’s
Line. In 1875 descendants of Archibald
Bell bought Camboon, an old property
on the Dawson River, Queensland.
Coochin Coochin, near Boonah (Q.), is
another well-known Bell property.
• . • '
Christoph Vollmer, here under a two-
year contract' with the A.8.C., is a
specialist in light music, and will develop
this section of the commission’s pro-
grammes. Until lately with Hamburg
Radio, one of the biggest stations in
Europe, he began his musical career as a
chorister in Leipzig’s St. Thomas’s
Church, whose cantorship was once held
CHRISTOPH VOLLMER
by Johann Sebastian Bach. Early, Vollmer
won an important competition for com-
posers at Land Sachsen. Four years ago
he composed and conducted the music
for a production at the Lucerne Festival
of Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass Men-
agerie.” He was conductor and choir-
master at the Lucerne State Theatre
before joining Hamburg Radio three
years ago at the age of 25.
Albert Deane, Paramount’s director of
publications, came to Sydney for his
mother’s birthday, but said a few words
about “The Ten Commandments” during
an interview. He’s been more-or-less
living with the film for the last couple of
years, latterly in Egypt; it’s ,the life-story
of Moses, directed by Cecil B. De Mille,
and it runs for 3 hours 40 minutes. Part
of Deane’s job is to take an active interest
in all productions, particularly from the
ALBERT DEANE
point of view of foreign censorship, and
he or his staff read them all in script—
a job that implies a respectable knowledge
of world affairs. The other big part of
his work is the production of “Paramount
World.” A native of these parts, he went
to school with Percy Spender and other
eminent citizens at Darlinghurst and Fort
Street, served in the Navy as a radio-
telegraphist during World War I, and was
one of Australia’s early radio-“bams”—
licence No. 9. He joined Paramount in
Sydney in 1919, went to Adelaide for,the
company, had a trip to the United States
in 1921 and, five years later, went there
permanently. His office in Times Square,
New York, is a kind of unofficial infor-
mation-centre for visiting Australians—
he’s had a < dozen brochures printed as
guides to what the city has to offer. He’s
interested, too, in publicising the work of
a neighbor of his, Australian-born artist
Hayley Lever, now in his 80’s, who has a
big reputation in the U.S., but is not
represented in any Australian gallery.
■ •
A Westralian who learnt his job the
hard way, 46-year-old Squadron-Leader
S. C. Medley goes to Edinburgh Field
(S.A.) to command the R.A.A.F. Main-
tenance Squadron there. Born in Perth
in 1909, he joined the R.A.A.F. as a
fitter in 1936, and rose to commissioned
rank in 1942. In 1945-46 he was in
Labuan as O.C. No. 22 Repair Salvage
Unit, and later as Chief Technical Officer
of No. 481 Maintenance Squadron.
• •
“Uramao”: Arthur W. Torrie, now on
leave from his job as science-teacher at
Rongotai College, Wellington (N.Z.), left
Paris the other day for Freetown, Sierra
Leone, to teach biology and science there
under the Unesco scheme.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 81, the Rev. Thomas Elias Ruth.
Bom in Devon (Eng.) and educated at Bristol
Baptist College and Bristol University, he
ministered for many years at two important Aus-
tralian churches —from 1914 to 1923 at Collins-
street Baptist Church, Melbourne, and from
1923 to 1939 at Sydney’s Pitt-street Congrega-
tional Church. The sermons were syndicated in
various Sunday newspapers, and he wrote some
half-dozen books of a religious nature. It was
owing to his efforts that the Pitt-street church
was restored and the adjoining Broadcast House
built towards the close of the ’twenties.
At Coolgardie, at 75, Michael Larkin, finder
of Larkinville field in the 1930’5. He held a
reward-claim on the field, about two miles
from where James Larcombe found the famous
Golden Eagle nugget in 1931.
In Sydney, A.J.C. handicapper lan Feaks.
Born at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) in 1906, he came to
Sydney in 1922 and clerked with the AJ.C.
In 1935 he was appointed handicapper for
Associated Racing Clubs ; in 1939, assistant-
judge and clerk-of-scales with the AJ.C.; in
1945, S.T.C. handicapper; in 1948, assistant
AJ. handicapper; in 1952, on retirement of
G. F. Wilson, AJ.C. handicapper, where *he
capably handled the poundage till the end. His
death was the result of an injury sustained with
the Second A.I.F. in the South-West'Pacific.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 82, Sir Hugh
Thomas Dyke Adand, noted surgeon, who
served in the South African War and both
world wars. Earned C.M.G. and C.8.E., and
got his knighthood in 1933. His mother was
the eldest daughter of Bishop Harper, fust
Bishop of Christchurch.


ALL MOD. CONS.


ABORIGINALITIES
■pOPULAR backroom sport in our bend
A o’ the bush is cockroach-racing.
Trained to run along a piece of string,
the end of which has been soaked in
honey, the ’roaches are kept in form with
night and morning work-outs, topped-off
by short gallops. Cockroach-studs are
springing up, and some owners hope to
obtain licences to import bloodstock.
At the moment they have to be content
with denizens of drains, sinks and old
cupboards. Minimum length for a
stayer is one-inch. Cockroaching origin-
ated in Japan, spread to the Middle East,
thence to the U.S., where big races have
appeared on TV. Of course, there are
shady goings-on, just as in moke and
mong realms. One owner complained
bitterly that his ’roach lost because it was
doped with fly-spray. Another had his
dunked in beer just before a race, and
another casualty was doped with cigar-
smoke. A ’roach is regarded as “aged”
when its whiskers touch the ground.—
“Maigreth.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Starting to get a bit nippy
round these parts. One housewife put a
basin of jelly out on the tankstand over-
night. Next morning she found it garn-
ished by a large green frog, firmly set!,
* * * *
“Diamondem”: Perhaps my method of
raising native Australian plants may be
of interest now that many are beginning
to realise the value of these for garden
and other purposes. I use any sort of
food-container, but prefer those of
smaller circumference, such as pea- and
spaghetti-tins. Bottoms are cut out, the
tins are split lengthwise with tin-snips,
and are kept cylindrical with a piece of
string. This makes transplanting easy,
as all that has to be done is cut the string
and remove the tin, thus not disturbing
the roots. The tins are filled with the
appropriate soil-mixture, and are then
packed side by side in a kero.-tin cut
lengthways, not quite as deep as them-
selves, and which has drainage-holes
punched in the bottom. The spaces
between the cylinders are filled with sand.
This method has served me well here in
nor’-west Queensland.
* * * *
“Doric” : Boomerangs are now being
manufactured and sold in the U.S.,
according to an advertisement in the
“National Geographic Magazine,” which
shows a picture of “The Australian Mys-
tery Stick . . . price, 2 dollars ... no
special skill required” (Oh, yeah!) “flight-
tested —guaranteed returns.” Next thing,
I suppose, our aborigines will be import-
ing genuine Australian boomerangs
labelled “Made in Japan.”
* * * *
“Young Nick”: Last night heard the
director of a museum describe the way a
mother crocodile digs a hole in the
ground, lays her eggs and covers them
with leaf-mould and debris. Some time
ago I read a racy account by a famous
writer dealing with the same subject, and
he had hi» facts wrong, too. There are
two species of crocodiles in Australia —
the smaller freshwater one, and the large
saltwater one, often miscalled alligator.
The freshwater croc, digs a hole and lays
her eggs about 2ft. deep in a sandy spot,
and then covers the nest with sand, to
obliterate all traces of the nest. Natives
find the nests by probing in likely spots
with spears. Wild pigs and goannas are
good at sniffing out the eggs, too. I
never found more than a dozen or so eggs
at a time. The saltwater croc, does not
“That makes us one up”
dig, but rakes together grass, leaves, twigs
and debris, and builds a mound about 3ft.
high and some Bft. to 10ft. around the
base. The eggs are laid close together,
some 9in, under the surface. Mother
croc, generally keeps an eye on the nest
and discourages prowlers. Several nests
I’ve opened contained between 40 and 45
eggs each.
* * * #
“Moorapi”: For 55 years Puffing
Billy’s grunts and clanks have punctuated
the calls of bellbirds on the nine-mile
narrow-gauge jaunt from Ferntree Gully
to Belgrave in Victoria’s Dandenongs.
Despite landslides, derailments and rising
costs, he still trundles the antiquated
carriages, laden with kids of all ages.
When the train was threatened with ex-
tinction last year a Preservation Society
was formed to keep it running at week-
ends and on public holidays. This
society recoups Vic. Railways for all
losses, staffs the train and arranges special
trips for children from institutions.
Some 51,000 passengers have been carried
in the past 12 months^
, * * * *
“A.G.M.”: The old art of rivet-heat-
ing (B. 15/2//56) is certainly a thing of
the past. The modern art, as applied
in aircraft-manufacture, is not only to
heat the rivets in a furnace but also to
keep them cool in a “refrigerator.” The
humble rivet is a very important part in
aircraft-manufacture. In the Gloucester
Javelin jet-fighter no fewer than 200,000
variously sized duralumin-alloy rivets are
used to build the wings, body and tail-
plane-units, and to retain the almost
incredible number of brackets and
strengthening-pieces that go into these
assemblies. Before use, the rivets are
“normalised” by hot treatment, quenched,
then placed in a “refrigerator” until ready
for use: this greatly reduces the rdpidity
with which they tend to age-harden; They
must be used within two hours after being
taken out; after 72 hours all unused
rivets are returned to be reheated and
normalised.
* * * *
“E.M.P.”: Knew a travelling salesman
for sewing-machines who was invited to
spend the night at an outback N.S.W.
homestead. During the evening the
daughter of the house sat at his sample
machine and pedalled out a whirring
rhythm while her young friends danced.
Gently but firmly, the salesman put the
top on the machine, horrified at the sacri-
lege. Next morning the station-owner’s
wife informed him she would not be
buying it. “If it woq’t stand up to a
night’s dancing, it can’t be much good!”
she said.
*** ' *
“Motuku”: Our Queensland bearded-
dragons, foraging for caterpillars, insects
and various leaves and flowers in the
garden, are often annoyed by young
magpies that follow them around and
tweak their tails, just for fun. A “Stop! ”
hand-signal at such times might have some
meaning, but why should the “beardies”
also lift a mitt in the approved manner
while chewing and swallowing a cater-
pillar or grasshopper when they have the
“Why, Dr. Bentwhistle, this is indeed an honor!”
lawn to themselves? They are not afraid
of the magpies; in fact, if one of these
plays about too long with a large beetle
or grasshopper she’s likely to have it
snapped up from under her bill by a swift-
raiding beardie.
• * * *
“Villefair”: Once went shooting with
a young skite who not only carried his
cocked .410 shotgun with his hand hold-
ing the muzzle in front but also per-
sisted in holding his index-finger over
the muzzle. I was keeping well clear of
him when a report, and a faint cry,
brought me running. An overhead
branch had twitched a hammer and fired
the right barrel —the one he had been
stoppering with a finger. No, he wasn’t
minus a digit; perhaps the air in the
barrel, propelled by the charge, blew
the finger out of the line of fire.
* * * *
“Kaymara”: Service nicknames may
have been lavished generously in the
Army as stated in a Bulletin article, but
in a fairly long spell in the R.A.A.F. on
a wide range of stations I struck very
few, apart from the inevitable “Bluey,”
“Shorty” and “Lofty.” Those I can recall
are “Donald Duck,” an angular drill-
sergeant with a distinct facial resemb-
lance ; “Shirley Temple,” another drill-
instructor, small and baby-faced; yet
another d.-i., “Lubra Lips”; “Hercules,”
a young muscle-bound wireless-trainee;
“Killer,” a fellow who, in drink, always
threatened to murder someone; “The
Doctor,” named after Dr. Goebbels be-
cause of the doubtful accuracy of many
of his asseverations, particularly relating
to himself; and “The Boy Blankard,”
another baby-face, a “rookie” corporal
who arrived up in the Islands when the
show was nearly over and who thought
that two stripes carried some weight up
there.
* * * *
•
“Saaedi”: The brush-turkey—no rela-
tion to the so-called plain-turkey—
belongs to an ancient and interesting
family of incubator-birds, most of which
are found only in Australia and New
Guinea. Devoid of parental instincts,
these fowl, in matters of reproduction,
have not progressed far beyond the rep-
tilian stage; they depend on the heat
generated by decaying debris gathered
into huge mounds to hatch their eggs.
Nests may hold over a score of eggs—
owing, presumably, to more than one
hen laying in the same heap. There is,
of course, a whopping big fine for shoot-
ing one of these birds, but unfortunately
the brush-turkey dwells in wild places
where the law’s protection is not easily
enforced, and what with that and its
other enemies besides man it is very
close to extinction —in N.S.W., at least.
* * * *
“Maitri”: A burst of bird-music,
limpid, melodious, vibrated the autumn-
morning air. “How beautiful! So inno-
cent ! ” enthused our British guest. “How
much better we’d all be if we could get
closer to nature.” On the lower branches
of the garden’s hawthorn-tree half-a-
dozen small birds were impaled on thorns
for all the world like carcasses displayed
in a meat-emporium. It was the larder
of the butcher-bird—our innocent
ca roller.
* * * *
FURTHER to Oliver Filter’s article in
the Sydney Show Supplement (B.
28/3/’56) on the development of harvest-
ing-machinery and the evolution of the
two big North American companies.
Massey called his binder the Massey-
Toronto ; Harris called his the Brantford
—the rivals having their works in those
respective cities.
A peculiarity of the
was that its main drive was by bevel-
gear, which, of course, precluded any
“raise and lower” on the main wheel —
the height of cut was determined solely
by the tilting-lever. The main wheel was
somewhat further back than usual, and
the gear to operate the needle, etc., was
at the back.
Harris’s Brantford was the first binder
with open rear and floating-top canvas
these features were eventually adopted
by all others.
The Canadian merger included not only
Massey and Harris but also Patterson, of
Woodstock, and two smaller concerns.
In the United States, McCormick s
competitors included not only Deering
but many other firms, including Walter
A. Wood, D. M. Osborne, “The'Buckeye,
Plano, Adriance, Johnstone, Champion,
etc. Most of those who did not join in
forming the International Harvester Co.
in 1902 were afterwards bought out by it.
KNOTIER.
THE SMELL OF SNOW
Smelling the snow
The mountains go—
March over and over
By forest and river,
Like herds of elephant
Marching to Limbo,
Until in the Alps
They are wreathed and crowned
And bedded and laved and smothered
With snow.
All through the summer
They dream of the snow—
Bawbaw and Slide, Cathedral and Lake,
The Sisters, the Brothers and gilded Red Jacket.
They bear the fire of February, to March
Concede gale-fall of timber, lose a scree,
And drink the morning mists —
And dream of snow.
But comes a night in April when the winds
Answer the little streams with tongues of ice,
When rock speaks out to rock across the valley
And sleet has ambushes at Tonjio Pass.
Then cattle come down from the Dargo High—
For the mountains are marching to June and
July.
And with the mountains march the little hills,
Close-folded in for shelter, lump and leaven —
For all have smelled the snow on the south
wind,
And all are marching mountains under Heaven.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Owners acclaim
. . these trucks have rendered yeoman service, have proved entirely suitable,
dependable, economic in initial outlay, low cost maintenance . . •
says Mr. F. J. Cawte, Murray Bridge, S.A.
Mr. Cawte’s words leave no doubt about
his satisfaction with Bedford. And they
are typical of the many testimonial
letters continually being received from
Australian Bedford owners. You can
read their actual reports in “In Their
Own Words”, a representative collection
of fifty letters in book form available for
the asking from your Bedford dealer.
See your Bedford dealer today and ask
him too, about Bedford’s better value
features and money-saving performance.
Compare the facts. Pound for pound,
feature for feature, you can’t buy better
than Bedford.
LOOK AT THE FACTS
BEDFORD’S YOUR BEST
Three low-revving 6 cyl. O.H.V.
engines match power to payload
throughout the range.
B.H.P. development from 76 to
114.6 ; maximum torque outputs
from 168.5 to 236 lb. ft.
10 CWT PANEL VAN
Ask your Dealer for details
of the latest addition to the
Bedford range—the new
Bedford i TON VAN, priced
at £BB5 plus tax.
Bedford chassis frames, transmission
and suspension are engineered for
each capacity and wheelbase.
Bedford offers worm and sector
steering, synchromesh gears, Lock-
heed hydraulic brakes.
A big 3-seater all-steel cab gives
more driver comfort, makes for
better handling.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS- HOLDEN'S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
854/36
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD
0
0
1
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES for chassis and cab
Model
15/18 cwt
30 cwt.
2 tons
3 tons
4 tons
5 tons '
5 tons
6/7 tons
6/7 tons
Wheelbase
119'
119*
143'
143'
167'
167'
G.V.W.
2T. 18 cwt.
3T. 10 cwt.
ST. 3 cwt.
ST. 16 cwt.
7T. 5 cwt.
BT. 5 cwt.
(Eaton 2-speed Rear Axle)
116"
156*
10T. 6 cwt
10T. 6 cwt
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
Price
£l,Oll
£1,057
£1,159
£1,191
£1,294
£1,320
£1,490
£1,580
£1,610
■Jc G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements are
available for your convenience.
Ask your Bedford dealer.
Bedford is backed by a nation-
wide service and parts organ-
isation-
VIVIDLY recall my last fistful of gold.
Back in 1909 we’d gone to Darwin
from Brock’s Creek for a cool change,
and 1 managed to land nine marks on a
half-crown pak-a-pu ticket, netting £ll5.
The Chow emptied the yellow beauties
out of a chamois bag into a porcelain
basin of water and, wiping them one by
one, stacked ’em: five stacks of 20 and
one of 15. “Whaffor you washem?” I
asked. “Yeah,” he replied, “you no
wantee dust longa plocket; more better
dust longa dish” —and he showed me a
tiny streak of gold in the water. He said
my 115 sovs. would sweat about £1 per
month in the chamois bag—which would
take some jingling! Patient, methodi-
cal old boys, those Celestials. —“Mat
Koening.”
* * * #
“N.A.8.”: A Christchurch (N.Z.) home
has been given the treatment for borer
extermination. A huge balloonlike plastic
bag was placed over the house, com-
pletely sealing it. Then methyl bromide,
an odorless wonder-gas that will kill
borers, bugs, rabbits, rats and even
weeds, was blown-in. The family spent
the night with friends; the gas left meat,
fish and milk in the larder alone, but
stalked the borers in the board to
extinction.
* * * *
“Inton”: The contractor had finished
the big dams on the station, and settling
was under way. The station-owner
checked the account amounting to over
£6OOO, and said: “It’s 0.K., but remem-
ber when you broke-down near here
about three years ago? You had a
’phone-call, three-an’-six. I’ll deduct that,
and fix-up for the balance.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: If the other bird-trainers
have finally disagreed on which avian is
the quickest walker, I’ll put my dough on
the sandpiper as the fastest runner, gait-
for-weight. A little black-and-white bloke
no bigger than a sparrow in body, he has
pins longer than a spag’s, but it isn’t
only the length of stride that gives him
his speed—it’s the incredible rapidity of
his leg-action! To count the strides he
takes in one of his bursts across the sand
is impossible. And why he chooses to
run at all is a mystery, since there are
few fas(pr-flying birds. The surprising
length of wing accounts for his aerial
speed ; it also changes his whole appear-
ance. Flying, he seems almost the size
of a peewee.
* * * *
“Montrose”: Ran over in the car and
killed a black-snake on the road. Getting
out to inspect, I saw six three-inchers
leaving the scene. I assumed my kill had
been previously injured, and so couldn’t
crawl off the road ; that the babes were
“Nice trout-stream , Ponsonby .”
her soon-to-be family. Does a lady black
lose her mobility while giving birth to
her brood? And to what length do snake-
lets normally grow within Ma before
birth?
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Surely the lone navigators
of the 1 Murrumbidgee (B. 4/4/’56) were
never referred to as “walers”! The
“Waler,” with a capital “W,” was
a “New South Waler” from the
time that the first of many thousands
of Australian remounts, officers’ chargers,
gunners, racers and polo-ponies were
exported to India. The “Madras Mail”
for June 25, 1873, has: “For Sale: a
brown Waler gelding . . .”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: That “grass-bird” men-
tioned by “Quo Vadis” (B. 21/3/’56),
who says it is “brownish-grey and
friendly, that it rarely flies or sings, but
runs well, has me baffled. I think we have
only two officially recognised grass-birds
in Australia (the tawny- and the little-)
and both are extremely shy, with a prefer-
ence for damp places.' Of course, we
have scores of birds —quail, parrots,
pigeons, and so forth —that live on grass-
seeds and are often termed grass-birds.
Maybe “Q.V.” means a pipit, though
that friendly fellow would be more at
home on golf-courses and in cultivation-
paddocks than amongst spinifex. How-
ever, it gets around, and it answers the
given description well enough, though it
flies readily if hard-pressed, and some-
times warbles sweetly in flight. It has
been called the ground-lark, but is not
related to the high-flying songsters,
though there is a striking similarity in
plumage-pattern.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Only 58 cigarette-papers
in the packet now. Used to be 60, and
I have a faint recollection of a long-ago
100. It’s 4d. a packet in my part of the
world; can remember when a big packet
cost only Id. How can you win?
• * * *
“Pat”: In warm climates the bullock
can put it all over the horse, for he can
stand greater heat and poorer tucker than
Dobbin. Also, although he isn’t as
strong, and is of slower pace, where the
prad exerts his strength with mighty
plunges the bullock will use only his
weight, leaning forward more and more
heavily into a job of moving. No jerks,
no straining plunges, no wrecking of
gear; a steady pressure evenly applied.
e * * *
“Moorapi”: The autographed MS. of
Wombat Wallaby, by one Richard Tester,
dated 1860, has been sold in London tor
£llO. It’s the story of the author’s vicissi-
tudes in his journey to the Bendigo (Vic.)
goldfields in the fifties, and is enhanced
by eight watercolors —a rarity in
manuscript-craft.
* * * *
TOUCHING on an “Aboriginalities”
query as to what had become of the
brass breastplates bestowed on abo.
chiefs by “Big Gubmint” and station-
owners, I can throw light on the where-
abouts of some at least.
This property, Welltown, widely-known
South Queensland Merino stud, was
managed by D. M. Cameron from 1893 to
1920. When he left Welltown to reside
on his own property, Kalanga, in the
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) district, one of the
owners of Welltown, H. N. Leonard, gave
Mrs. Cameron all the brass-plates belong-
ing to the Welltown tribal-chiefs. They
hang today in the hallway at Kalanga, an
interesting and ornamental record of
early times.
These are some of the names on the
plates: Billy, King of Biran ; Bonny,
King of Kilie ; Kate, Queen of Welltown
and Tandawanna ; Bobby Cubby, King
of Bundulimby; Tommy Cubby, King
of Tandawanna; Tommy, King of
Manamie; Susan, Queen of Welltown.
Of all the plates, Susan’s is the only
one bearing a date, 1906 ; but I have it
on reliable authority that the others were
bestowed before 1882. The majority
bear an engraving of an emu at the top
left-hand corner and of a kangaroo on
the top right-hand side. Kate’s pla*te has
also an engraving of a lubra.
These plates were all bestowed by the
owner of Welltown, and on his death
were handed back, the fear of “debbil
debbil” being too great for any native to
wear anything belonging to a dead man.
Plates were worn on ceremonial
occasions only, but Susan refused right
from the start to wear hers, saying it was
too heavy. However, when Mr. Cameron
wished to take her photograph just prior
to his departure from Welltown she
demanded it back and posed proudly with
her piccaninnies, Joe and Billy, one on
each side.
Susan’s plate is now at Welltown,
kindly sent back by Mrs. Cameron, as
■ both the writer and her husband knew
Susan well. Recently Susan’s grand-
daughter, Maggie, was employed on the
station.
SAMPSON.
TIMBER
All here was sleeping shade,
Tree locking tree in close embrace
And nothing knew of hurt or change
Before the singing of the blade.
Blade, deep at the heart,
Hot whining of the wanton steel
Whipped to an exultant note
As time and timber tear apart.
Let the red gum stand afraid
Before today’s discarded stump;
Tomorrow’s sun congeals the sap
Within the. carry-all of trade.
N-S.W.
BERNARD PEACH.


Will
Death Duties
[Take the "Lions' Share" ,
of your Estate?
This is a problem which often confronts testators
with large estates. Expert advice can prove
invaluable.
Why not now examine and explore the possibilities
of planning your affairs to the advantage eventually
of your dependents?
The Company’s 70 years of specialised experience—
as Executors, Trustees, Agents and Attorneys—is at
your service
Call or write for the Booklet “Important Facts
concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria)
Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman) ;
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.B.E. Manager: J. G. H. Shipw&y. Assistant
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8.E.' (Ehairman) •
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon’
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT22
THE SEARCH FOR MINES
By A. G. PALMER, B.E., A.M. Aus. I.M.M.
a romantic mining
history, several outstanding
ore-deposits, a vast mineral
potential and a keen national
interest in mining, the value of
Australia’s # mineral-production
and rate of finding new mines
compare unfavorably with most
other countries of similar size.
This situation is popularly
ascribed to our limited capital
resources and adverse costs —
factors arising from sparse,
unevenly distributed popula-
tion, great distances, inadequate
communications and retarded
industrial development.
Whilst conceding capital-limi-
tations and high costs, notably
freight-charges, have tended to
restrict mining-activity to high-
grade deposits of ores capable
of concentration to a high-priced
product, I believe the basic
reason for the backwardness of
the industry has been Austra-
lians’ provincial and ultra-con-
servative outlook towards all
phases of mining. The prevalent
belief that starting new mines
will flood the market and depress
mineral prices to the detriment
of existing producers has pre-
vented many established com-
panies from taking an active part
in the development of new
mining fields.
To me this is a completely
negative attitude towards one of
the normal items of mining risk
which progressive organisations
overseas accept and take in their
stride. There is always capital
available for a proven ore-
deposit, whilst the menace of
high costs and low prices can
often be Countered by an original
and imaginative approach to the
many problems inherent in
mining operations.
We must appreciate that a
better understanding of mineral
occurrence., more efficient mining
and metallurgical techniques,
together with a rapidly expand-
ing fist of useful minerals, have
greatly widened the field for
profitable mining investment. We
must also realise that the future
prosperity of the industry will
be governed chiefly by the speed
with which we can open up new
mining fields.
Fortunately there are signs that
we are acquiring a more up-to-
date mining outlook. This quality
should help to raise the moral
and technical standards of Aus-
tralian mining and eventually
lead to the mature development
of our mineral resources. With
this in mind, and anticipating a
strengthening mineral market,
together with promotiop of many
new prospecting companies in
1956-57, it is timely to discuss
some of the issues involved in
the search for mines.
Some Important Concepts
A “mineral” is a naturally-
occurring inorganic substance of
definite chemical composition
and physical characteristics. A
“rock” is a naturally-occurring
aggregate of mineral or organic
particles. Rocks are the major
constituents of the earth’s crust.
Mining is concerned with the
profitable winning of minerals or
rocks from the ground. A “mine”
is any excavation from which
minerals or rocks are taken for
commercial purposes.
The useful minerals fall into
two groups, namely, “metallic”
or “ore” minerals which are
valuable by virtue of the metals
they contain, and “non-metallic”
minerals which are valuable in
their own right and are consumed
directly in their mineral state.
A “mineral deposit” is a local
accumulation of one or more
minerals in rock. “Primary”
mineral-deposits are formed in
the earth’s crust by internal
agencies, whilst “secondary”
mineral-deposits are created at
or near the surface of the earth
by the action of weathering.
Secondary deposits concentrated
by water- or wind-action are
known as “placer” deposits, or
simply “placers.” An “alluvial”
deposit is a placer concentrated
by water-action.
An economic deposit is one
containing concentrations of use-
ful minerals which can be ex-
ploited profitably.
If the valuable constituents are
metallic minerals, the expression
“ore deposit” is commonly used.
However, it is less confusing,
though not strictly correct, to
employ the terms “economic
mineral-deposit” and “ore-
deposit” synonymously, as I
have done in this article.
A deposit in which the profit
element is doubtful or absent
only justifies the name “mineral-
deposit.” “Ore” or “paydirt” is
the profit-earning or payable
component of an ore-deposit.
The “grade” or “richness” of a
deposit containing valuable
minerals measures the extent of
dilution by worthless material.
Grade is determined by
chemical analyses (most metallic
minerals), by radiometric assay
(radioactive minerals), and by
visual examination often aided
by the microscope (non-metallics,
beach-sands, etc.)
Unpayable mineral material is
not ore, regardless of its Rich-
ness or grade. Valuable minerals
are seldom distributed con-
tinuously throughout an entire
ore-deposit, but tend to occur in
concentrations called “ore-
bodies” or “lodes” separated by
barren or poorly-mineralised
rock. An “ore-shoot” is a special
type of ore-body having well-
defined trends.
To be * truly economic, a
mineral-deposit must be capable
of returning, with interest, the
capital-investment required to
win the ore from the ground.
The capital-investment com-
prises the purchase-price of the
property, underwriters’ com-
missions, the cost of equipping
the mine, and the.expense of all
the work necessary to reach
production.
Return of capital with interest
is called “amortisation.” Interest
is payment for the use of money.
The rate of interest is commen-
surate with the risk involved in an
enterprise. Owing to the special
hazards of underground opera-
tions, the vagaries of ore-deposi-
tion and mineral-markets, capital
invested in mining should
command a higher interest-rate
than for other industries. The
risk-rate expected may range
from 8-12 p.c. for solid mining
concerns to 25-50 p.c. for highly
speculative ventures.
Amortisation is accomplished
by instalments (dividends) de-
ducted from profits and paid to
subscribers of the capital (in-
vestors). Any return to the in-
vestors after amortisation repre-
sents the real profit in an enter-
prise. “Amortisation tonnage” is
the minimum tonnage of ore
required to satisfy the conditions
for amortisation. A mineral
deposit not containing an amorti-
sation tonnage cannot be classed
as an ore-deposit. Overcapitali-
sation is the usual obstacle to
amortisation.
A “prospect’’ is a potential
ore-deposit warranting investiga-
tion. Bringing a prospect suc-
cessfully to the*production stage
generally involves four opera-
tions, namely:
Prospecting.
Exploration.
Development.
Exploitation.
The object of prospecting and
exploration is to find new
mineral-deposits, and, when one
is found, to prove or disprove
an amortisation tonnage with
minimum expenditure of time
and money. If carried to comple-
tion, the operations include pre-
liminary and detailed geological
examinations, drilling and/or
underground openings to expose
mineralisation in depth, metal-
lurgical tests, and, finally, a
stringent engineering and
economic study to determine
“If only the damn firm had had some regular system
of profit-sharing things might have Worked out
differently."
whether the prospect warrants
development.
Development is the work of
opening-up and preparing an
ore-body for ore-extraction
whilst exploitation is the task of
ore and concentrating
it to a marketable product by the
elimination of most of the worth-
less constituents.
Ore-extraction may be carried
out by underground- or surface-
mining methods (open - cut,
dredging, etc.), depending on the
type of ore-deposit. In under-
ground operations, ore-extraction
is called “stoping,” and a “stope”
is the chamber left after
removing ore. Prospecting, ex-
ploration and development rarely
cease with production, but con-
tinue thoughout the life of the
mine to find and make new ore
available for exploitation.
Most ores are concentrated in
a mill or concentrator by crush-
ing and grinding to release inter-
locking mineral grains, followed
by separation into concentrates
and tailing, which is discarded.
Separation is effected by a
variety of means, including
simple gravity methods, flotation,
electrostatic and magnetic separa-
tion, etc. Concentrates contain-
ing metallic minerals must
finally be reduced to the metals
by “hydrometallurgy” or “smelt-
ing,” followed by “refining.”
However, only the largest ore-
deposits can carry the capital-
cost of a metal-reduction plant.
Consequently, at most mines the
end-product marketed js a con-
centrate.
Prospecting Companies
It is often said that the only
way to find mines is to place
mine-search in the same category
as horseracing and to attract
large supplies of “risk” or “specu-
lative” capital by stimulating
the gambling instincts of the
public, using the lure of easy
money, to be won either by
gambling on the stockmarket,
or, more remotely, by a prize
should the enterprise be success-
ful. This view is enthusiastically
supported by many of those
engaged in the lucrative business
of company-promotion.
Whilst many mines have been,
and will continue to be, found
by speculative capital, and
undoubtedly, provided the work
is efficiently carried out, the
investigation of high-risk pros-
pects including oil, uranium and
deeply-buried deposits is best
financed in this way, there are
certain limitations and adverse
features connected with the
wholesale and uncontrolled pro-
motion of speculative ventures.
To ensure getting in the
capital, most speculative com-
panies are floated during a boom,
of at least a period of strong
optimism. Their operations are
necessarily restricted to popular
minerals located in fashionable
areas. Mineral-deposits lacking
glamor, and therefore the
ability to attract capital, are
passed-by regardless of merit.
Like film-stars, the popularity
of minerals is generally a tran-
sient condition depending largely
on the whim of the public.
Eighteen months or so ago oil-
and uranium-prospecting was the
thing. Today it’s zircon-rutile in
our beach-sands. Tomorrow it
might be nickel in South Aus-
tralia or even base-metals in
N.S.W. Directors shrewd
enough to forecast trends can
often switch their company's
activities to the new public fancy
before funds run out. In this
way they have a better chance of
maintaining the flow of specula-
tive capital, and, consequently,
prolonging the. life of the
company.
Owing to the risk-factor and
uncertainty of their future, many
speculative concerns are unable
to secure competent staff because
most qualified mining personnel
prefer employment within the
comparative safety of the estab-
lished companies. A poorly-
staffed organisation, lacking the
technical skill to distinguish be-
tween the “duds” and the rarer
ore-deposits, has little chance of
success in mine-search.
In such cases money is usually
frittered on badly - planned
exploration and, as often
happens, uneconomic deposits
may be recklessly opened-up,
incurring further public financial
loss. Equally bad is the danger
that sloppy field-work and lack
of imagination may prevent the
recognition of an ore-deposit.
A prospect thus rejected may be
dormant for years until some-
one has the vision to see its
possibilities and the courage to
re-examine the property in the
face of previous failures.
Like horseracing, one of the
worst features of intense specu-
lation is that rapid circulation oi
large quantities of money attracts
all kinds of undesirable charac-
ters, many of whom are
(i Continued on page 30)


ENVELOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 Ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-388 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ANDREW FAIRBAIRN late
of 60 Wyndham Street Alexandria near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY HAZEL
FAIRBAIRN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4270 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 25 th day of
June 1956 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. E. R.
TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, of 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
i
w
Hand in hand
From the earliest days, children learn to trust
others. They naturally turn to grown-ups for
help and guidance.
In the same way, grown-ups — and children
too — turn for assistance in financial matters to
the Bank of New South Wales (Australia’s oldest
company and largest trading bank). Many
families have banked with us for generations.
Tens of thousands of new customers use our
services every year. They know “you can bank
on the ‘Wales’
You, too, can become a customer of the
“Wales”. In most Australian States and Terri-
tories even the youngest children can open savings
accounts in the Bank of New South Wales Savings
Bank Limited. And throughout Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, young
people who have left school and begun to earn a
regular income can open cheque accounts with the
Bank of New South Wales.
If you want to know more about the Bank’s
services, call at any branch of the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
IMWM'MIiMUIiMMIH'MMa
D9O9SV
£5.200000
NATIONAL MUTUAL
roucyHOLDERS
Over half a million Bonus Certificates,
totalling £5,211,000 in additional policy
benefits, are being mailed to members
who are receiving an average
Bonus increase
b 70%
FOR
0-a-a«
Q
m
c
C 7
1955
rlcXT £
The Association is entirely mutual . . .
members alone share all profits.
It pays to join the National Mutual.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
(Inc. in Vic.)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
IT is hardly surprising that
devout British Marxists, whose
convictions are symbolisecf by a
bust of Stalin on the mantel-
piece, should write apprehensive
letters to the “Daily Worker.”
But it is surprising, that these
letters should be published. For
the “Worker” has never lacked
ingenuity in explaining away the
contradictions and violent
somersaults of the party line.
The “fine tradition of criti-
cism” which purports to justify
the ventilation of this conflict of
views is, of course, utter non-
sense. Khrushchev’s calculated
denigration of the demigod has
so upset the faithful (their be-
nign, emotional leader, Harry
Pollitt, included) that suppression
was unthinkable. Feelings were
too strong. And Pollitt, who
for 30 years has basked under
the . radiant glow of protector-
in-chief of the working-classes,
is quite unable to come into
line with a snaf).
Stalin, says the current-line,
achieved great things. How
much greater they would have
been but for “certain defects
and abuses of personal character
which put him above party.”
And “measures have now been
taken to prevent the repetition
of past mistakes.”
Old Joe, say the wags, has
played Old Harry with the
leader of the British Commies.
What’s the Difference? s
As a political unit the British
Communist party does not enjoy
the high favor of its masters in
the Kremlin. It is inept and
ineffectual. Funds are low.
Membership is constantly chang-
ing and comparatively small
(33,000). Electorally, the party
is vain and futile. And the
Labor party steadfastly rejects
any fraternal approaches ; it is
wise enough, after several
events, to treat them as the “kiss
of death.”
So there’s little hope of a
Popular Front. And the osten-
tatious smashing of a former
idol, since it underlines the
party’s complete and inescapable
submission to Soviet Russia,
will hardly promote recruitment
—at least, not immediately.
Yet, though collectively the
Communist pa#ty remains a faint
absurdity, compounded of cranks
and misfits and disgruntled have-
nots, and never certain which
way it is to turn, the hard core
of practised cynics and able
saboteurs will be not at all dis-
concerted by the change of face.
They will continue to make
trouble with the maximum effect
of their small numbers.
Only one British trade-union
—the electricians’ —is completely
under Communist domination.
It has a relatively small member-
ship (215,000) and, because of the
individual nature of the men’s
work, is not' easy to manoeuvre.
Moreover, the strong-arm
methods of the triumvirate have
provoked some resistance.
Nevertheless, the E.T.U. has
done a lot of damage with
slender resources of men. The
story of how the Communists
obtained control is one of skill,
ruthlessness and determination.
And the members’ dislike of their
leaders’ methods did not prevent
80 per cent, of them from failing
to vote at the last officers’
election.
Now the Amalgamated Engi-
neering Union, with nearly
1,000,000 members, is seriously
threatened with Communist
infiltration. In the election for
president, only 85,000 troubled
to vote. The Communist candi-
date polled 21,000 votes while
his nine rivals together polled
only 64,000. The outcome now
depends upon a straight fight
between the Communist and his
runner-up. As it is estimated
that not more than one in
twenty-five would vote for a man
known to be a Communist the
apathy of the majority who can’t
be bothered to vote at all is thus
easy game for a small but reso-
lute clique.
It remains to be seen what the
new and desperately bold change
of Soviet policy, making Stalin
a scapegoat for all its past wrong-
doing, will have upon recruit-
ment. Certainly, protestations
of friendship, made apparently
with beaming goodwill, should
have a, sweeter effect than the
churlish pettiness of the
Russian wives affair —or than the
harsh treatment of the Jewish
doctors, which cost the British
Communist party many resigna-
tions. But at present'the most
active—and the most valued—
Communists sedulously avoid
mixing politics with business.
Bitter Pill
“One Bright Day” (Apollo
theatre) would be a problem-
play of some force if only the
author, Sigmund Miller, had
not tried to brighten-up his
narrative with humor and epi-
gram. The one is self-conscious,
the other facetious. He does
himself little justice by these
contrivances, for, when he is not
writing-down, his work rings of
authenticity and understanding.
He obviously knows his back-
ground well and can pose an
awkward dilemma of right or
wrong without pointing a moral
or taking sides.
Should those responsible for
the manufacture of “Trakone,”
a pain-killing drug, make known
that it has been discovered, in
certain instances, to be lethal?
Or should they, with jobs, futures
and private fortunes at stake,
find another way out? Julian
Prescott, the president, has a
conscience which cannot support
a single fatality, however vague
and remote. He is, too, a fair-
dealer. Not so his deputy, young
GeQrge Lawrence, a go-getter
and determinedly astute man-
of-business.
The shattering disclosure
comes out when Prescott is away
ill. Lawrence handles it
brilliantly and with consummate
resource, but entirely as a
matter of business. He changes
the formula, packs the new
tablets in yellow cartons and
withdraws all the existing blue
cartons from the stores, taking
a chance only on the dwindling
stock of the old tablets still in
medicine-chests scattered among
the forty-eight States.
This dangerous residue, with
the side-issues of a “nuisance
case’’ and evidences of question-
able business and private
morality on the part of Lawrence,
lead to a quiet but immensely
strong climax. Prescott sum-
mons the stockholders to his
Massachusetts home and puts
it squarely to them. Connivance
at murder or financial loss?
Slowly the conflicting forces
act, but human weakness, in the
form of rationalisation, affects
them all, even his high-
minded wife. After this —and
superbly dramatic it is—the con-
ventional ending does not quite
attain the intended high pitch.
The acting of an unusually
large cast has inner subtlety as
well as realism. Clive Brook
gives strength and dignity to the
by-no-means-unworldly president
and Renee Asherson a veneer of
sophistication to his too-human
daughter. Derek Farr’s unprin-
cipled tycoon is a fine true-to-
life study of moral weakness
concealed by ambition. It is no
fault of Naunton Wayne’s that
the light relief of his bubbling
persiflage as the philandering
jester grows unconscionably
heavier with every entrance.
Mafeking Night at the Vic
Wendy Hiller, looking like
Theda Bara, is rouged, ostrich-
feathered, voluptuously-gowned
in the style of the Empire
Promenade, with tight split-
skirt, high heels and a cigarette-
holder a foot long. In dalliance
with a young cavalry toff in full
regimentals, she thumps an ivory
baby-grand, minces, curvets and
flirts like a 1914 officer’s lovely.
Whom does she represent? Not,
surely, Helen of Troy? Indeed!
The Trojans suggest a night-
mare fantastication of Brooks’s
Club, with thigh-boots, pipe-clay,
cuirasses and drinks on the
colonel. The Greeks, in turn,
have a word for it —Potsdam.
Agamemnon has a blank stare
and a Hindenburg get-up.
Ulysses is a grand-admiral,
Nestor a diminutive Von Billow.
Ajax —a bluff Coldstreamer —
appears to have strayed into the
wrong camp. So does Achilles,
wearing flannel bags and a red
shirt. But the rest are severely
Prussian.
And the whole? Tyrone
Guthrie’s production of Shak-
speare’s “Troilus and Cressida”!
It is the most extravagant, diver-
ting and rollicking absurdity
seen at the Old Vic for many a
year. Looking beneath the
dressing-up and the profuse
comic effects is only to presume
that faithfulness to the original
would have meant a half-empty
theatre. If this isn’t “com-
merc i a 1” Shakspaare then
Cressida rides side-saddle. She
does!


That
Perplexing Problem!
•a; . '
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Vittorio in 1878
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
,
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—how will my Estate be administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates, and the
assurance that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until the
Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, 1972,657.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Symej
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
» K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.: Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan 6. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
John Fairfax, Ltd. (Sydney)
nrHIS is the big holding co., registered
A in Canberra on April 9, 1956, through
which the public will become interested
in the large and old-established publish-
ing-house of John Fairfax and Sons
Pty., Ltd.
The operating, or proprietary, co. owns
and publishes “The Sydney Morning
Herald,” which has been a family concern
for the last 115 years, and is now one of
.the largest newspapers in Australia, and
compares favorably with similar publi-
cations in other parts of the world. It
has been, and still is, the money-spinning
backbone of the Fairfax interests. The
co.’s other publications are “The Austra-
lian Financial Review,” a young and
relatively unimportant contributor to the
pool, and “The Sun-Herald,” which is a
recent amalgamation of “The Sunday
Sun” and “The Sunday Herald,” and
which has been financially a lame duck to
date, though it has a large circulation and
big advertising revenue.
The new holding co. will buy all the
issued shares in, and with them control
of, John Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd., for
£3,600,000, paying £2,000,000 in f.-p.
shares and £1,600,000 cash, of which the
vendor shareholders have agreed to re-
invest £1,500,000 in the business, secured
by 6 p.c. 20-years’ debentures redeemable
at the co.’s option after 10 years. To meet
the cash portion of the purchase con-
sideration 2,000,000 £1 shares are offered
at par. The issue, which is likely to be
oversubscribed, has been underwritten
at 6d. a share (£50,000) by lan Potter and
Co., the Melbourne brokers, who have
taken firm 1,500,000 of them (for issue
to their own clients), leaving 500,000
available for the general public. Pre-
liminary exes, are expected to make off
with £BO,OOO, thus leaving the holding
co. with £320,000 of working capital,
which is to be advanced to the operating
subsidiaries.
The assets to be acquired are plant,
etc., £1,948,299 ; ord. shares (887,849) in
Associated Newspapers, Ltd., £898,743 ;
other shares, debentures and Government
securities, £1,140,652 ; stocks, £1,267,850 ;
debtors, cash, etc., £1,426,665. Current
liabilities and provisions figure at
£784,043, and debentures £1,500,000. So,
with £320,000 of its own working capital,
the holding co. will control net tangible
assets with a book-value of £4,718,166,
equal to 235. 7d. for each of its own £1
shares. Before transfer of its assets the
operating co. wrote up the book-value of
its plant, etc., by £1,150,924 and some of
its investments (but not the holding in
Associated) by £800,012, a total of
£1,950,936. The writing-up of book-
values is supported by independent valua-
tions. No value has been placed on the
considerable goodwill of “The Sydney
Morning Herald” for the purposes of the
deal.
Adjusted combined net profits of John
Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd., and Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Ltd., for 1954 and 1955
were £473,758 and £492,808 respectively,
or enough to pay Associated’s pref. div.
(£104,460) and show 9.2 p.c. and 9.7 p.c.
respectively on the paid capital of the
holding co., which expects to pay a div.
of not less than 6\ p.c. in all circumstances
“save the gravest economic crisis.” The
profit-figures were arrived at after allow-
ing for losses by “The Sun-Herald” of
£201,223 in 1954 and £193,836 in 1955.
Future net earnings of the group will
depend largely upon how “The Sun-
Herald” venture finally pans out. It is
now reported to be about to turn the
financial corner at an early date, thanks to
a lift in advertising-rates towards the end
of 1955, and savings in operating and
other costs following transfer to the big
new building in Wattle-street, Broadway.
However, with the cost of newsgathering
(mainly salary- and wage-rates) and the
price of newsprint still rising steadily,
and competition growing sharper (other
Sunday-newspaper publishers are instal-
ling new plant), “The Sun-Herald” doesn’t
look like being more than a moderate
profit-earner for some time to come.
On the basis of the 1955 figures,
elimination of “The Sun-Herald” loss
(£193,836) and allowing for tax-adjust-
ment and Associated’s pref. div. would
lift the profit available to the holding co.
to £504,671, or 12£ p.c. on its capital.
The large new Wattle-street building,
in which the Fairfax and Associated cos.
integrated their operating and administra-
tive activities early in 1956, is occupied
on a long-term lease at an unstated rental.
It was built by the A.M.P. Society, which
is responsible for up to £2,500,000 of the
cost of the land and building. The build-
ing itself is expected to finally cost about
£2,600,000, and there will be the outlay
on electrical installations, air-condition-
ing, plant-erection, etc., to add to that.
Also, the current offer of John Fairfax
and Sons Pty., Ltd., to buy at 255. (cash)
each the 862,151 £1 ords. not already held
by it in Associated Newspapers, Ltd., will
be. another and big call on capital
account. The amount involved is
£1,077,689. And Amalgamated Tele-
vision Pty., in which the two before-
mentioned cos. are substantially in-
terested, might ask its shareholders for
more before it gets into full swing.
The prospectus makes no mention of
how the £1,500,000 received from sale
of the co.’s old Hunter-street property to
the Bank of N. S. Wales has been used.
The probabilities are that a substantial
part of it was applied to lightening the
weight of outside debt. And the same
applies to the £1,100,000 received by
Associated for sale of its Elizabeth-street
property.
At September 2, 1954? paid capital of
John Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd., was
£394,990 in 200,000 a and 155,992 B prefs.
and 38,998 ords., all of £1 each. For the
year to June 30, 1955, thfe A and B prefs.
and ords. received divs. of 4s. 6d. and 6s.
and 88s. lOd. respectively on each of their
shares. On the basis of the capital
structure in 1954, the 1955 divs. totalled
£265,014. In addition the ords. were
“credited”, with a tax-free div. of
£200,707 in October, 1954.
The only directors of the proprietary
co. were W. O. Fairfax and R. A. G.
Henderson, They are both on the board
of the new holding co., where they have
been joined by V. C. Fairfax, who had
resigned from the board of tjie pro-
prietary some years ago on appointment
to the directorate of the Bank of N. S.
Wales.
A feature , of the new float which
puzzles many people is the absence of a
director to represent the new partner in
the business, the public, which is putting
£2,000,000 into the venture.
Peter Lloyd Industries (N.S.W.)
A LTHOUGH rearrangement of the
franchises for N. S. Wales
in February, 1955, brightened the outlook
for this motor-vehicle distributor, condi-
tions in the trade have since become
increasingly difficult under pressure of
growing competition, import-restrictions,
tighter credit, and the recent stiff rise in
sales-tax on passenger-cars from 16.6 p.c.
to 30 p.c. At the same time the hardening
of interest-rates in the bond-market and
extra slug of Is. in the £ in the rate of co.-
tax has had a depressing effect on the
price of equity shares generally.
Under this combination of influences,
the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares, backed by net
tangibles with a book-value of 6s. 4d.,
dropped from 6s. to 4s. lid. over the last
12 months. The return at 4s. lid. is 8.1
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. And until the
outlook generally improves and condi-
tions in the motor-trade in particular
become less sticky, it is doubtful whether
better than 8 p.c. need be looked for.
The co.’s original franchises, which
covered N. S. Wales, were for Wolseley
and Riley cars and Nuffield tractors and
M.G. cars (country districts) and
Mercedes-Benz and Nash cars as well as
Nash and Dennis trucks, etc. Under the
new arrangement Nuffield (Aust.) Pty.—
part of the big British Motor Corp.
organisation—took over the distribution
of Nuffield products in N.S.W. country
areas. Peter Lloyd thus lost the country
distribution of Wolseley, Riley and M.G.
cars and Nuffield tractors. At the same
time it became joint-distributor with
York Motors (previously sole distributor)
in the Sydney metropohtan area for
Morris cars and trucks, Wolseley and
Riley cars and the tractors already
referred to.
The co. got away to a good start after
formation in 1950, thanks to the boom
in the trade. But as conditions worsened
earnings contracted abruptly, and a loss
of £93,732 showed up in 1953:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June, Profit. , — —Dividends Reserves.*
_. £ £ £
Preliminary expenses, £6816 .. 109,981
1951 .. 90,534 10 p.c. = 16,153 184,362
1952 .. 34,606 7i „ „ 18,750 24)0,217
Goodwill written off, £20,168 .. 180,049
To capital reserve, £897 .. 180,946
Loss.
1953 .. 93,732 87,214
To capital reserve, £24,896 .. 112,110
Profit.
1954 .. 31,285 143,395
Loss shares, £l5OO .. .. 141,895
1955 . . 50,546 8 p.c. = 20,000 172,441
* Subject to intangibles, £109,299 at 30/6/’55. '
Last term the co. benefited by five mpnths’
trading under the new arrangement, net
earnings increased by £19,261, and share-
holders got back into the picture with
8 p.c., making the average distribution
over the last five years 5.1 p.c. But
neither the 1954 nor 1955 profit-figures
are a reliable guide to actual net earning-
power, because no provision for taxation
was necessary cm account of the loss in
1953. With co. tax at Bs. in the £, last
term’s net profit would be £30,328, or
12.1 p.c. on capital.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tions for bigger trading:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
„ . , 1953. 1954. 1955.
Capital £ 250,000 £ 250,000 £ 250,000
Reserves .. .. 87,214 143,395 172,441
Overdraft ~ .. 127,081 84,874
Creditors .. .. 265,681 50,833 131L509
Tax provision .. .. 13,746 996 996
Final divs 10,000
£839,272 £657,820
Land and buildings .. 90,100 70,862 114,123
Plant, etc 52023 44,200 48,627
Shares 60,450 L5OO
Stock 450,659 252,883 283,504
Debtors 76,316 93,230 10L536
Gash 825 331 431
Intangibles ~ .. 109,299 109,299 109,299
£830,272 £572,306 £657,820
The net addition of £43,261 to land and
buildings was mainly on account of new
showrooms being erected at Chatswood,
near Sydney. To help meet the outlay,
carry £30,621 more book-debts and clip
£42,207 off the overdraft the co. added
£88,676 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The shrinkage in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£150,392) was only
£17,142.
Sutex Industries, Ltd.
T>UOYANT conditions over the first
_ half of the term were reflected in a
bigger gross trading-profit for Sutex in
1955, but, because of the need to write-
down stocks to meet the fall in wool
prices, net earnings finished £1994 below
the 1954 figure of £93,077. Provision for
depreciation was made at £35,900, com-
pared with £26,355 in the previous year,
and taxation at £41,146, as against
£45,752 in 1954.
< Dividends N To Be- Be-
Sept.tProflt, Pref. f Ord. serves. serves.*
7f & 6J p.e.
£ £ £ £ £
Sutex Industries and Subsidiaries.
Revaluation assets, £160,000 .. .. 314,741
Profit sale assets, £2lOB .. .. 316^849
Preliminary exes., £3082 .. .. 313’?67
1961.. 74.976 8,922 12J p.e. = 41,891 24,163 337,930
Profit sale assets, £2441 .. ~ 340,371
Unexplained increase, £B3B .. .. 341,209
1962.. 176 9,812 9 p.c. = 44,811 8,552 349,761
Profit sale assets, £12,612 .. .. 362,373
To bad debts provision, £2OOO .. 360,373
1963.. 78.086 9,813 9 p.c. = 44,810 23,462 383,835
Added reserves, £3456 .. .. .. 387,290
Profit sale assets, etc., £2130 .. 389,420
1954.. 077 9,813 12 p.c. = 59,748 23,516 412,936
Added reserves, £177,135 .. .. 690,071
Profit sale assets, etc., £1937 .. 592,008
1955.. 083 9,812 11 p.c. = 68,626 12,645 604,653
* After deducting intangibles, now £BOOO.
t Includes results of operating cos. to June 30.
On enlarged ordinary capital, after
satisfying the pref. charges, the £91,083
profit was 13 p.c. as against 16.7.
p.c. in 1954, 13.7 p.c. in 1953 and 10.7 p.c.
in 1952. Ordinary dividend was lowered
one point to 11 p.c., making the average
distribution 10.2 p.c. over the last four
years. Already widely diversified, the
co.’s interests in the textile field were
further added to last year by the acquisi-
tion in November, 1954, of worsted yarn-
maker Riverhart Pty., Ltd., at a cost of
£125,965 in ord. scrip and £8675 cash.
Following the transfer of ownership,
worsted spinning-plant previously located
at Richmond (Vic.) was moved to River-
hart’s mill at Huntingdale (Vic.). This
interrupted production, but, when further
reorganisation is completed this term, the
subsidiary is expected to contribute satis-
factorily to profits.
The following are the companies at
present controlled by Sutex:
Sutex Pty., Ltd., worsted-weavers and
manufacturers of knitgoods and fully-
fashioned stockings. Factories are at
Biclunond (Vic.) and Hobart (Tas.).
Branch offices and showrooms at Sydney,
Adelaide and Perth.
Sutex (Bendigo) Pty., Ltd., manufac-
turers of knitgoods and swimwear. Fac-
tory at Bendigo (Vic.).
Auswool Shawls Pty., Ltd., makers of
baby-shawls and knitgoods. Factory at
Hawthorn (Vic.).
Sutex Distributors Pty., Ltd., wholesale
textile-distributors at Melbourne and
Hobart.
Sutex (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., wholesale tex-
tile-distributors at Brisbane.
Australian Chenille Pty., Ltd., manu-
facturers of chenille products. Factory at
Hawthorn (Vic.).
Kiverhart Pty., Ltd., worsted-yarn
spinners. Factory at Huntingdale (Vic.).
B. J. Davis Pty., Ltd.
J. C. Smith Pty., Ltd.
Derwent Park Estates Pty., Ltd.
The company reports a good demand
for its hosiery, outerwear and swimwear.
Negotiations were concluded recently with
Angeles manufacturer Catalina, Inc.,
to make its beachwear fines in Aus-
tralia. Demand for worsted cloth, how-
ever, is below production, but an improve-
ment in sales is expected as a result of
additional import-restrictions imposed last
October. Representations have been
made to the Tariff Board by. the industry
for heavier duties on worsted cloths, but
no decision has yet been given.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures
reflect the Riverhart acquisition and the
co.’s outlay on its modernisation
programme:
Consolidated Balancb-shhw.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £176,000 £176,000 £176,000
Ord 497,900 497,900 623,865
Reserves .. .. 391,836 420,936 612,663
Secured loan .. 75,000 75,000 133,500
Deferred liability 67,852 65,648 66,844
Overdraft . . . . 89,628 204,962 458,183
Creditors . . .. 239,363 237,724 269,533
Staff fund .. 17,482 17,406 14,772
Inter-co. suspense 4,397 6,009 6,635
Final divs. .. 24,859 34,817 36,766
£1,583,316 £1,734,302 £2,387,751
Freeholds .. .. 343,917 353,182 493,754
Plant, etc. .. 167,812 186,310 360,041
Shares, etc. .. 70,175 60,424 60,680
Stocks .. .. 686,280 816,557 1,132,515
Debtors .. .. 306,928 309,618 332,510
Cash .. .. 204 211 251
Intangibles .. 8,000 8,000 8,000
£1,583,316 £1,734,302 £2,387,751
Additions to fixed assdts (up £314,303),
stocks (up £315,958 to £1,132,515) and
debtors (up £22,892 to £332,510) were
financed by fresh 1 share-capital and


LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Interim Dividend No. 82
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared an
INTERIM DIVIDEND in respect of
the year ending JUNE 30, 1956, of
NINEPENCE Sterling per share, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
standard rate in force at date of
payment, payable, May 18, 1956.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from April 27, to April 30, 1956, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on APRIL 27,
1956.
For —
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
Fimiston,
April 6, 1956,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian, and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting as
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision oi
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for thie
service, and no change need be made is
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Missing Friend
TO ATHOL JOHN HOOPER formerly oi
Lower Beulah Burnie and Devonport in
the State of Tasmania Railway Employee
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JEAN EVELYN
HOOPER has instituted proceedings
against you for a Divorce on the ground
of desertion for three years and up-
wards Unless you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne in the State
of Victoria on or before the 10th day of
May 1956 and thereafter file your answer
on or before the 20th day of May 1956
the suit will proceed in your absence. —
L’ESTRANGE & KENNEDY, of 291
Bridge Road, Richmond, Victoria, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner.
7 fey V~/ £ v f fe fi j _
/<sv ) kfe fe i) \3/ V L-j fe/ tee 2
\f fe fey fee 7 feg fe/
feW fe VW fefe fife _ fefeUfe w
,„_
EJ”
Nj JpfcX
cE^/
s^r
,/ tfs-? W 7?
/
1
•9
«^>]
IS>
<s?
(#
Pi
3^£>]
■■-“•■■
z:
c\ - /
/^\l''',4
V^r:
.^1
*ra
A
-«
l'~r>'
*/>
SW
Hi ,
r y_! ,/TJt
y fe
//s
i" [
/«3VIJ)/
VV3T &
vJ*
~%J __
V/felS
-Z
fctV'
*—feo'
/3^
*V
? te-s;
r i tirf
■*&
zc>,
—•■j
s»
OUTSTANDING FEATURES
from the
69th Annual Report
/ of
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Bonus Rates maintained
Payment? to Policyholders and Dependants, £5,848,389
New Policies assuring £67,785,280
Assets protecting Policyholders exceed £122,000,000
The
(incorporated in N.S. If .)
The MUTUAL LIFE ami CITIZENS’
Assurance Co. Limited
General Manager
A. F. DEER
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
reserves, as well as money on
loan and overdraft (up £311,721)
and trade credit (up £31,809).
Current assets were about double
liabilities. Actual working capi-
tal at June 30 was £679,387, up
£52,919 on the preceding
balance-date.
To provide additional work-
ing capital in the current term
the co. proposes to issue 100,000
7 p.c. redeemable cumulative
10s. pref. shares at par to the
Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd. Sutex will redeem
the scrip at the rate of £20,000
p.a., beginning five years from
the date of issue.
Priced at around ss. 6d., the
co.’s ord. stock has touched the
lowest level for some years to
return an even 10 p.c. on the
basis of an 11 p.c. div. Textile
stocks generally are pretty low
at the moment, but with net
tangible assets worth 9s. lOd.
supporting each ss. share and
most of the expenditure on plant-
modernisation out of the way
Sutex may be worth some atten-
tion. At 6s. 3d. the 5i p.c. first
cum. prefs. return 8.4 p.c. The
7f p.c. prefs. are at par. Net
tangible asset cover for both
classes is £4,
Winns, Ltd. (Sydney)
OINCE the public became
interested in this old-
established drapery-concern in
Oxford-street, Sydney, in 1948,
the business has expanded
steadily by absorptions and
otherwise. At the start there was
one branch at Hurstville. Early
in 1950 two other Winn busi-
nesses, one at Redfern and the
other at Auburn, were taken
over for £45,844 in scrip, and
another at Ashfield was absorbed
in 1951. Meanwhile, share-
holders put up £127,512 of fresh
capital to help finance the
growth. Last term construction
of a fifth shop at Fairfield
began, but trading didn’t com-
mence until late ip 1955.
To help finance the outlay and
provide for further all-round
expansion, those on the register
are presently to be offered
366,676 new ss. shares at par,
one-for-three. The issue will
bring in £91,667, and lift paid
capital to £366,675, on which
10 p.c. will call for £12,058 less
profit than was earned last term.
At 7s. Bd. (7s. 2d. a year ago)
the ex-rights price of the shares
would be 75., allowing for
brokerage. Theoretical value of
the rights would thus be 25., and,
considering the position in the
capital market at the moment,
they might become available at
less. The return at 7s. is 7.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, which
seems reasonably assured.
Over the last five years divs.
averaging 9.6 p.c. were paid
from profits averaging 15.7 p.c.
on capital employed. There was
a sharp contraction of profits
during the two years to 1953 —
a general experience following
the flood of imported softgoods
and subsequent price-cutting in
the trade. Still, only a point was
chipped off the div., reducing it
to 9 p.c., and there has been a
heartening resilience of the
figures since, due partly to
buoyant trading-conditions and
partly to careful and energetic
management:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jly.,Prft. f— serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Add on consolidation, £20,213 125,921
>51..52,830 10 = 22,273 30,557 156,478
Private co. taxation, £8356.. 148,122
Unexplained addition, 1 £470.. 148,592
’52..4<U54 9 = 24,750 15,504 164,096
Unexplained addition, £617.. 165,713
’53. .28,833 9 = 24,751 4,082 169,795
Unexplained addition, £6354 176,149
>54..46,277 10 = 27,500 18,777 194,926
Unexplained addition, £2211 197,137
’55..48,725 10 = 27,500 21,225 218,362
♦Subject to intangibles (£7340 at
31/7/’54) which were written out of the
accounts in the 1955 term.
Last term turnover exceeded all
previous records. After allow-
ing for taxation (£21,500, up
£2500) and depreciation (£4497,
up £379), net earnings increased
by £2448, reaching £48,725,
which was equal to 17.7 p.c. on
capital (there is only one class)
as against 16.8, 10.5, 14.6 and
19.2 p.c. back to 1951.
Statistical pointers suggest that
the co. will be fortunate if it
holds net earnings for the current
term at last year’s level. Though
retail turnovers generally are
edging up, salaries and wages are
now taking a bigger proportion
of sales than they did a year ago,
and the taxgatherer will make
off with an extra Is. in the £.
Also, the new Fairfield branch
isn’t likely to develop full earn-
ing-power immediately. Still,
any shrinkage in the net result
is not likely to be very marked.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £275,006 £275,006 £275.006
Reserves .. 169,795 194,926 218,362
Mortgages .. 35,159 33,194 31,229'
Overdraft .. 23,182 18,694 36,614
Creditors,
etc.* . . 209,380 209,840 230,443
Inter-co. sus-
pense .. 33
Dividend pro-
vision .. 24,751 27,500 27,500
£737,306 £759,160 £819,154
Freehold .. 51,436 61,286 114,226
Leaseholds .. 15,178 13,279 11,380
Plant, furni-
ture .. 62,406 67,221 82,783
Investments. 5,145 5,324 6,457
Stock . . 452,716 428,318 426,594
Debtors .. 138,045 173,952 177,347
Cash .. 2,040 2,440 2,868
Goodwill .. 10,340 7,340
£737,306 £759,160 £819,164
* Includes tax provision.
During the year £52,939 was
added to freeholds, partly on
account of fhe Fairfield building.
Capital was increased by
£23,436, the overdraft by
£17,920, and the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., by
£20,603. Stocks (down £2724)
figure at cost or lower, and pro-
vision has been made for bad
and doubtful debts.
Great Boulder Prop, (paid
capital £250,000 in f.-p. 2s.
shares), which has been operat-
ing on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.) for the last 62 years,
continues to give a good account
of itself. For the year to
December 31 last it treated
473,288 tons (up 2374 tons) of
5.39dwt. ore for 115,5810 z. (up
94140 z.) fine gold. So, although
working-costs rose by 3s. Bd.,
reaching 645. sd. a ton, the profit
was £9414 higher at £216,369,
best showing since 1918. The
Is. 3d. div. (same as for previous
year) called for £156,250.
Development continued to run
ahead of the mill, ore-reserves at
2,068,400 tons, averaging
5.42dwt., were 23,300 tons
stronger than a year ago. And
the mine is opening up nicely at
depth. On the 2050 ft. level
7.Bdwt. ore has been met with
in the Phantom South lode, and
6.sdwt. stuff in the Fault lode.
The f.-p. 2s. shares, which
dropped to 11s. in 1955, recently
fetched 15s.


Women’s Lett ers
MELBOURNE
Officers from H.M.A.S. Sydney were
entertained at a late-afternoon party
given by the junior section of the Royal
Empire Society. The president, Leigh
Machin, assisted by Barbara Bruce,
received the 70 guests, among whom were
several officers of the Pakistan Navy now
training with the R.A.N. Sir John
Newman Morris, president of the R.E.S.,
and vice-president Sir John Allison were
special guests. Younger members of the
society included Felicity Harber, Andrea
Moule, Helen Hambly and Betty
Renwick.
V V V
Another function which wardroom-
members of H.M.A.S. Sydney attended
was an informal dance given by young
members at the English Speaking Union’s
clubrooms, which were decorated with
the Australian flag and bowls of mixed
flowers. David Wishart, Mrs. William
Banks and John Ely received the 100
guests.
V v «■
Guests from the Northern Territory,
S.A., Tasmania and N.S.W. were at the
wedding of Caroline, younger daughter
of Wing-Commander and Mrs. L. M.
Bailey, of Berwick, and Ronald Shepherd,
of Bond Springs, Alice Springs. The
bride’s white delustred-satin gown had
a long-sleeved bodice with deep-V neck-
line. The long torso-bodice finished at
the hipline with a flat inset band and a
large bow at the back, the sash-ends
falling the length of the very full skirt
to form a short train. A wreath of white
roses, worn at the back of the head,, held
the long white tulle veil, and she carried
long-stemmed white roses.
Mrs. David White, of Mudgee
(N.S.W.), Mrs. S. Haggard, of Berwick,
Sue Carnegie, of Holbrook (N.S.W.), and
Judith Gubbins, of Chatsworth, attended
the bride. Although their frocks of white
corded-satin were cut on the same lines
as the bride’s, they had short sleeves and
stiffened bows at the back. Each wore a
cluster of white roses in her hair and
carried white roses. The bridegroom, who
is the son of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Shep-
herd, of Turramurra (N.S.W.), had Bruce
Chisholm, of Bond Springs, as best man.
Reception was at No. 9 Darling-street.
After a honeymoon at Haymen Island
the couple will make their home at Bond
Springs.
# # #
“Operation Gratitude” is the name *
given to the appeal for £20,000 to be
launched by the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, who is patron, and sponsored by
the R.S.L. The money is needed to build
homes and hostels at St. Kilda for aged
and needy returned war-nurses and war-
veterans. The Royal Victorian College
of Nursing, the Returned Army Nurses’
Club and most of the great hospitals in
the city are behind the scheme.
First function to assist “Operation
Gratitude” was Mae Hoban’s production
at Coppin Hall, South Yarra, of “The
Burning Glass,” with a cast of talented
amateurs. President of the Returned
Nurses’ Club Mrs. Roy Chambers, wear-
ing a graceful, gown of pearl-grey satin-
brocade and a dyed-ermine cape,
received the Lady Mayoress, Lady
Selleck, whose choice was a full-skirted
gown of anthracite-grey silk-organza
highlighted with a folded sash of pastel-
pink satin. Mrs. Hoban’s gown was of
black-and-gold brocade. In the audience
were Colonel J. Bowe (matron-in-chief
of the R.A.A.N.C.), Miss J. Hanna (Lady
Superintendent of the Alfred Hospital),
Helen Ellison, Alice Adcock and Nan
Clarke (who also served as nurses over-
seas), Dr. Margaret Troup, Mrs. H. B.
Stephens, Mrs. J. Glendinning, Mrs.
Estelle Golding and Mrs. Bob Cooke.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the wedding of Joan,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William
Frazer Richards, of Hartwell, and Peter
Geoffrey, elder son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Clemenger, of Toorak. Joan, who has
been an energetic member of the Wool
Board Committee, which works for
Opportunity Clubs, chose a»bouffant
gown of white tulle. Her full-length veil
was caught by a lovely antique bandeau
of pearls and rhinestones, and she carried
a posy of white roses. The only todch of
color in the all-white bridal party was
that of the posies of gold roses carried
by matron-of-honor Mil. John Mac-
donald and bridesmaid Lynette Bleakley.
Their gowns were of \off-white faille,
made with full skirts and with the bodices
featuring draped off-the-shoulder neck-
lines. Reception was at Ciro’s, where
Mrs. Richards, wearing a grey satin gown
with a tiny pink hat, and Mrs. Clemenger,
in oyster satins and green chiffon hat,
helped their husbands receive the guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the premiere of Dennis Dris-
coll’s “Job for the Boy” at the Arrow
Theatre (where gales of laughter were
the order of the night): John Casson and
his daughter Jane, Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. A. Willocks, Mrs. Massey Burnside
and Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Pacini (she
wearing a theatre-coat of watermelon-
pink silk-taffeta and matching satin-
shoes).
Interior-decorator Mrs. Verna Linton
has been appointed color-consultant for
Tip Top Paints ( Aust .). It was she who
so tastefully re-decorated the Mentally
Retarded Children’s Home at Oakleigh.
Her next job will be on an open-air
theatre in Hobart. Daughter of Mrs.
Lionel Newton, Mrs. Linton has two
daughters at St. Margaret’s School,
Berwick. A symphony-lover, she finds
other relaxation in skiing. Photo by
John Warlow.
Elegant simplicity was the keynote of
a wonderful collection of winter-suits,
daytime- and evening-ensembles and
glorious furs at the private showing at
George’s, which was attended by Lady
Brooks. The frocks and suits showed to
advantage the richness of the fabrics.
Tweed looks its best in a well-cut suit,
and the addition of a black velvet collar
shows-up the color—seen in a classical
suit of deep currant-red and black tweed.
A luxurious ensemble was a slim short-
■sleeved frock of grey tweed with an under-
tone of green ; it was worn with a knee-
length jacket of tweed in the same shade,
but checked with a deeper tone. The
jacket was lined with moleskin and was
reversible.
A striking theatre-ensemble was of ice-
blue satin. The full-length coat was
edged with mink and lined in deep rose-
pink satin. The rounded neckline of
the sheath-frock was embroidered in
beads, the beading repeated down each
side of the coat. Sunset-tulle fashioned
a bouffant evening-frock with a peacock-
hemline. The bodice was strapless, and
the waist (the new lower-line) was defined
with nut-brown velvet finished with two
bows, at the back. Over a formal evening-
gown of parchment-satin was worn a
wide matching stole finished with a
double row of mink-tails.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the luncheon-party given at their
Mount Macedon home by Mr. and Mrs.
Lionel Newton there were three guests-
of-honor, all Americans from San
Francisco: Mr. Randolph Servier (presi-
dent of the Matson line), Mr. William M.
Roth (treasurer of the line), and Mr.
Creighton Peet, Jnr. (vice-president of the
Oceanic-Steamship Co.).
Guests included Minister for Transport
A. G. Warner and Mrs. Warner, Lord
Mayor Sir Frank Selleck and Lady Sel-
leek, U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner
and his wife, Mrs. Alan Newton (a visitor
from Los Angeles), Mr. and Mrs. John
Dixon, Mrs. A. G. Silk, Mr. and Mrs.
Ken Luke, Mrs. Norman Bennett and
Mr. and Mrs. John Chaldjian.
SYDNEY
Everyone is feeling much happier
about Sydney now that the cold change
has come and autumn has arrived with
misty mornings and sparkling, bright
days. The Queen’s Birthday was cele-
brated on Saturday by a reception at
the Royal Empire Society; and for all
those women who have been hovering
over the 29 mark for some years, the
thought of the Queen’s enhanced beauty
at the age of 30 has been a very hearten-
ing one.
Talk during the week touched lightly
on the visit of the Russians to England
and the presents they brought—diamonds
for the Queen and sables for Princess
Margaret (perhaps), horses for the Duke
of Edinburgh and Prince Charles, a baby
bear for Princess Anne. Luxurious gifts,
and imaginative too.
The marriage of Grace Kelly and
Prince Rainier was also a favorite topic,
many people echoing the catty, almost
spiteful tone set by columnists abroad.
Yet one tiling remains clear about the
whole affair (which admittedly has a
musical-comedy atmosphere), and that is
that Princess Grace, though not born in
the purple, has shown as much com-
posure and dignity in difficult circum-
stances as anyone trained from infancy
to do so.
☆ ☆ #
“The Sylphide and the Scotsman” in
the ballet “Graduation Ball” came
irresistibly to mind when the six debs in
billowy white dresses were presented at
the Scots College Ball to Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs. Walters,
for the school’s pipe-band, looking mag-
nificent in kilt and sporran and plaid,
made a dashing and romantic background
for the presentation. The girls, all
daughters of “old boys,” were Ann Alli-
son, Rewa Barrett, Barbara Gotting, Pam
Gill, Caroline Kingston and Cynthia
Piggin. The guests-of-honor were wel-
comed by the honorary organiser, Mr.
J. B. Maltman, and Mrs. Maltman, and
hosts for the evening were Mr. Ferguson
Munro (president of the 0.8. U.) and
Mrs. Munro. A very large official party
included presidents of all the G.P.S. “old
boys’ ” unions, Mr. W. S. Rankin
(master-in-charge of Scots) and Mrs.
Rankin, Dr. and Mrs. Bell, Mr. and
Mrs. E. R. Reddell, and Mrs. George
Elliott, who was matron-of-honor for
the debs.
Consuelo Zalapa, whose marriage is
to take place next Friday, April 27, at St.
Mark’s Church, Darling Point, is the
daughter of the Consul-General for
Brazil and Mrs. Zalapa. Her fiance is
David Kent, son of the late Mr. H. S.
Kent and of Mrs. Kent, of Rose Bay.
Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
“Twelfth Night,” the Elizabethan
Theatre’s- fist essay into Shakspeare,
drew a typical first-night audience on
Saturday. Officialdom was represented by
the Premier and Mrs. Cahill, and Minister
for Education R. J. Heffron and Mrs.
Heffron. Chairman of the Elizabethan
Trust Dr. H. C. Coombs and Mrs.Coombs,
and Sir John Latham were present,
and also ardent first-nighters Mr. and
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, Mr. and Mrs.
Rupert Scammell, Mrs. Charles Walton
with her young daughter Ann-Marie, Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Williams, Miss Margaret
Gillespie. Ballerinas were worn by most
people, but Virginia Paris (remembered
from “South Pacific”) added a spectacular
touch with her full, sweeping cape of
cardinal-red taffeta.
☆ ☆ *
Girls dressed for fencing, tennis and
physical-training formed a guard-of-
honor for Lady Slim, wife of the Gov-
ernor-General, when she arrived at the
Y.W.C.A. for the reception in her honor
last week. Lady Slim was greeted by the
president of “Y,” Mrs. Neville Harding,
and met members of the Advisory Board,
who include Mr. and Mrs. Frank
McDowell and Mr. and Mrs. I. H. Smal-
page. Specially-selected scenes from the
pageant which Lady Slim was unable to
see last October were staged again, and
after the performance members of the
cast and the staff of “Y” were presented
by Mrs. Harding.
V V V
Either hockey attracts the more intel-
lectual type of woman, or the game by
some strange means develops the intel-
ligence. This seems to be shown by the
number of professional women included
in the international hockey-teams that
will be taking part in the conference and
tournament of the Women’s Hockey
Association in Sydney from May 20 to
June 3.
The manager of the Canadian team,
Dr. Lila Scott, is a graduate both in arts
and medicine, Berta Whittle is studying
maths and chemistry, Doreen Armour
is a graduate in pharmacy, Bett Best is
studying at the University of British
Columbia, and Mrs. Audree Rees is a
chemist. England is sending 12 physical-
education teachers, two secretaries and a
civil servant; Ireland a pharmaceutical-
chemist, a farm-manager, a doctor and a
physiotherapist, Miss B. Kyle (who, by
the way, is a sister of Jack Kyle, Rugby
international). Perhaps if the weather
proves too inclement for hockey the teams
might stage a quiz show or two. They
should be well worth -hearing.
& # #
A packed house responded warmly to
Gwen Meredith’s new play, “Corner-
stone,” which had its premiere at the
Independent Theatre on Thursday last.
Gwen, who is, of course, the author of
the popular radio-seridls “The Lawsons”
and “Blue Hills,” said she is thinking
of writing another play in order to bring
her friends together. “I am seeing people
here tonight I haven’t seen for twenty
years,” she added. In her curtain-speech
she pointed out that in the 25 years of
the Independent Theatre’s existence an
Australian play had been presented, on an
average, every 18 months —a very fine
record considering the bleak periods for
theatre which that 25 years have included.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the gayest gatherings of the
year, the Netherlands Ball in honor of
the birthday of Queen Juliana, will take
place next Friday, April 27, at the
Trocadero. The Dutch folk-dancing,
Dutch food, the games, Continental-band
and the singing which are part of this
ball make it a merry and unforgettable
occasion. This year’s secretary of the
ball is Mr. P. J. G. Albers.
☆ ☆ *
The Phillip-street Theatre got away to
another revue last week with their
“Mr. and Mrs.” show, and, as usual on
such occasions, the attractive little theatre
was decked-out with an attractively-
dressed audience. Noticed Eric Baume
among those present (he is the subject
of one of the humorous sketches under
the title of “The Oracle”). It is quite the
fashion for well-known p,eople to go
along to see burlesques of themselves at
this theatre, and also for others to go
along to see the well-known people
almost as much as the show.
☆ ☆ ☆
The new home for nurses at the
Beverley Park Orthopaedic Hospital,
Campbelltown, which was officially
opened by the Governor, Sir John North-
cott, last week, will, with its increased
staff-facilities, allow for more accommo-
dation for boys from five to 16 years of
age who are on the waiting-list. Beverley
Park is one of three long-term orthopaedic
hospitals conducted by the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children. An interesting
hobby of the boys in this hospital is their
own “radio-station,” which they call 4RM
(Room Mates), complete with plays,
jackpots and burlesque-commercials.
The programmes are prepared and acted
by the boys themselves on the first-floor
and relayed to other boys in bed on the
ground-floor.


Legal Notice
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
“THE BANKRUPTCY ACT 1924-1955.”
Substituted Service of Bankruptcy Peti-
tion. In the Court of Bankruptcy—Dis-
trict of Western Australia.
TO WILLIAM MATHER '245 Forrest
Street Kalgoorlie State of Western Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE THAT a Bank-
ruptcy Petition was presented against you
on the 19th day of December 1955.
The name of the Petitioning Creditor is
F. H. Faulding & Co. Ltd. The address
of the Petitioning Creditor is 313 Murray
Street, Perth, W.A. The amount of the
Petitioning Creditor’s Debt is SIXTY-
FIVE POUNDS NINETEEN SHILLINGS
( £65/19/-). By an Order dated the 26th
day of March, 1956, the Court ordered
that publication of this Notice and the
sending of a sealed copy of the above-
mentioned Petition together with a
sealed copy of the Order by prepaid
Registered post, addressed to 245 Forrest
Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A., should be
deemed to be good and sufficient service
on you of the Petition. The date fixed
for the Hearing of the Petition is
Tuesday the 12th day of June, 1956, at
10.30 a.m. If you do not appear the
Court may make a Sequestration Order
against you in your absence. The rele-
vant documents m ty be inspected at this
Registry. DATED this 19th day of April,
1956.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
#»
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officesi
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO FRANCIS EDWARD CLEARY for-
merly of 29 Percy Street Brunswick Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife JEAN
MAVIS CLEARY has commenced an
Action No. 333 of 1956 against you for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your desertion for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend this action
you may enter an appearance in the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane within forty-four days
from the date of publication hereof. You
may obtain, without charge, a copy of
the Writ of Summons and Petition from
0. K. MAGUIRE, Solicitor, 246 Queen
Street, Brisbane—L. CHRISTOPHER-
SON, Second Deputy Registrar.
TO MILAN JOVANOVIO address un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ANTIOA JOVANOVIO has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years or more
and she is seeking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion pursuant to Section 27
of the Matrimonial Causes and Personal
Status Code 1948 IF you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file your
defence' in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within Forty
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion. In default of your so doing the
cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 12th day of April, 1956. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED V CURRAN
& FERRIER, of Forrest _ Place, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS MIRIAM ATKINSON late
of 133 Ramsgate Road Sans Souci New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
OLIVE ATKINSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3296 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 29th June 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOSEPH P. SHARAH & CO.,
Solicitors, 141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
in the said Stale. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER LAWSON BARTLETT late
of Taree.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
ARLINE BARTLETT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 618 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd July 1956 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
m
mm
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.156.12A
HOWS
“Twelfth Night”
In a contemporary approach
to Shakspeare, which one has
noted before, too much emphasis
on languid grace and lovely
grouping and movement tends
to transform the plays into
scented essays on style. The last
Old Vic company to visit Sydney
—under Michael Benthall’s direc-
tion —was an extreme exponent;
if memory serves aright, in the
emasculated Shakspeare which
resulted Katharine Hepburn
often seemed the most masculine
member of the cast.
The opening performance of
“Twelfth Night” at Sydney’s
Elizabethan Theatre didn’t quite
fall into that category, but it
was at least inclined towards it.
It showed-off its measured grace
a little too much, and it paused
a little too often to look at
Elaine Haxton’s charming sets
and costumes or at director
Hugh Hunt’s beautiful stage-
patterns.
It would be oafish not to
appreciate those things or admit
that they make a lovely spect-
acle, *but it would be uncritical
not to suggest that such things
are only servants of the pro-
ducer, and should be kept in
their place. Dwelling on them
overmuch deprived the play of
its quick, mischievous humor
and left it a little heavy with
scent and sentiment foyer-
comment was not unfair when it
complained that Mr. Hunt had
made too much of a good thing.
The mood of the production
infected the players to the extent
that Diana Davidson, as Olivia,
was inclined to come the heavy
and gave small grounds for sus-
picion that there was any sense
of fun in her; while Leonard
Teale, as Orsino, gave the
impression that he loved nothing
quite so much as the words he
was speaking.
Against that, Dinah Shearing’s
Viola was as quick and sensitive
to her part and her lines as a
leaf to the breeze. She won
affection immediately, and that
essential achievement was some-
thing in which the rest of the
cast, except for Zoe Caldwell’s
Maria and James Bailey’s Sir
Toby, failed notably. Bailey’s
Sir Toby had a good swagger
and was rather less of an ale-
house sot that some make him —
and all the better for it.
Ray Lawler’s Feste was too
melancholy—possibly to comply
with the slightly wistful mood
which seemed to creep up on the
production from time to time—
and Alistair Roberts’s Sir
Andrew was so skilfully vacuous
that one soon lost sight of every-
thing about him except his pink
and purple garments.
Clement McCallin’s Malvolio
was, for the most, a stalking
Puritan, but his occasional resort
to eye-swivelling pantomime and
adenoidal accents deprived
him in the end of any claim to
Olivia’s consideration and of the
measure of sympathy from the
audience which is his due.
♦l* ❖ ♦>
“The Boy Friend”
“The Boy Friend,” which has
now moved to Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, comes under the
banner of the Australian Eliza-
bethan Trust, which hopes, for
no apparent reason, that Sandy
Wilson’s bit of froth-and-bubble
may act as a spur to those
interested in composing a truly
Australian musical-comedy. It
purports to be a satire on the
musical-play of the ’twenties, but
the satire is so light and incon-
sequential that nobody would
miss it if it wasn’t present.
There is the usual case of
mistaken identity leading to
complications a kindergarten
kid could see through. A
millionaire’s beautiful daughter
falls in love with a bellboy who
turns out to be a lord, and there
are bathing-beauties dressed in
long-’uns who are pursued by
good-looking young men in
flannels with intent to nothing
worse than marriage.
There are also a couple of
elderly husbands who are less
interested in their wives than in
the damsels, and if there is any
observable difference between the
morals of 1920 and those of 1956
it isn’t shown. The stage is less
thickly populated than usual,
there being only a dozen or so
beautiful young ladies and the
same number of romantic young
men, but what they lack in
numbers they make up for in
good looks.
As the millionaire’s daughter,
Marie Tysoe provides a satisfying
eyeful and earful, and John
Parker, as the hero, sings at her
in a voice neither rich nor
melodious, though some of the
tunes he has been given are
distinctly catchy.
If the innocuous trifle sets an
Australian fashion there will be
one merit in it —it shouldn’t cost
much.
M. G. S.
Pekarek and Badura-Skoda
The promise of a good,
if extra-serious, season of
orchestral music came from the
first subscription-concert in Bris-
bane. Rudolf Pekarek conducted
with authority, and the tone of
his orchestra has improved to a
very high standard.
A heavily Teutonic pro-
gramme was introduced by a
light and exhilarating suite by
the Frenchman Roussel. This
was modernity with a traditional
framework, and its high spirits
were controlled by a sense of
form that stopped them from
spilling over more programme-
time than was justified. Not all
composers have the same ability
to know when to stop.
Beethoven’s great and sprawl-
ing “Emperor” Concerto brought
Paul Badura-Skoda to the plat-
form for a performance that had
to compete with the still-fresh
memories of Gieseking in the
same work. Though he
has none of the older
man’s serenity at the key-
board, Badura - Skoda gave
a fresh and continually interest-
ing account of the music. No
concerto has a more splendid
opening than the “Emperor,” yet,
curiously enough, this perform-
ance did not immediately warm-
up. It was well past the opening
pages before the brass-tone began
to sound imperious and penetrate
a string-tone that imposed too
much gentility on this proud
music.
The orchestra really came into
ks own in the Fourth Sym-
phony of Brahms. This was
powerfully played, and with such
“bite” from the strings Jhat even
the doubtful acoustics of the hall
could not reduce the sound to
fuzziness. There was no trace of
strain in any of the movements,
and there was nothing to suggest
that we were hearing a final
rehearsal instead of a finished
product.
One or two played sour notes,
probably out of nervousness, but
the general transparency of the
playing allowed so much of
Brahms’s music to be clearly
heard that it made amends for
other flaws. The whiplash pre-
cision present in so much of this
playing was obviously the work
of a conductor who was master
of his orchestra and of the music
on the stand in front of him.
D. J. M.
Pro Musica
Sydney University’s Great Hall
was threequarter-filled for the
second Pro Musica concert, with
Professor Peart conducting.
Evidently the cold snap had done
things to the players’ fingers,
for the first item —Arthur Ben-
jamin’s lilting “Overture to an
Italian Comedy” lacked
decision.
The orchestra warmed-up with
Campra’s “Suite of Airs and
Dances” vigorous Corellilike
fare and even the harpsi-
chordist projected an occasional
tinkle. Then, when Marta Zalan
sat down at the grand and
launched into Mozart’s A Major
Concerto, Peart’s group thawed
completely and kept a happy
balance to the rippling piano-
stream. Miss Zalan’s strongest
tone was a mild forte, thus dis-
suading any snap-happy strings.
After interval there was
Britten’s “Sinfonietta,” Op. I, in
which the composer spreads his
orchestral bread with tart
marmalade. Some ragged edges
damaged the confident nature
of the Variations.
A modest rendition of Beet-
hoven’s Symphony No. 4 in B
Flat prompted Professor Peart,
the lone double-bass and The
Bulletin to call it a day.
* ❖ *
C.W.A. Concert
The inaugural concert of the
Music Club of the Legion of
Catholic Women in Sydney pro-
duced some worth-while music-
making.
Soprano Valda Bagnall sang
stylishly the “Gavotte” from
“Mignon,* 1 “One Fine Day” from
“Butterfly” and the “Jewel Song”
from “Faust,” and captured the
fragrance and fragile charm of
a bracket of Grieg songs.
Michael Khlentzos demon-
strated a greatly-improved half-
voice in the “Romance” from
“Mignon,” the “Flower Song”
from “Carmen,” and “Strange
Harmony of Contrasts” from
“Tosca.” He invested the
climactic phases with ringing
high notes of excellent quality.
The singers also combined
artistically in duets from “Tales
of Hoffmann,” “Boheme” and
Lehar’s “Paganini.”
Marta Zalan, who accom-
panied the singers, gave a taste
of her technical mastery in the
fiery “Mephisto” Waltz of Liszt,
afterwards moving through the
shimmering impressionism of
Debussy’s “Reflections in the
Water” with easy authority.
Talkies
“Romeo and Juliet” (Mel-
bourne Savoy): For sheer
elaborateness it would be diffi-
cult to equal this Russian film-
ing of a ballet on Shakspeare’s
immortal story, the whole course
of which is wordlessly mimed
from start to finish. In place
of the poetry of Shakspeare’s dic-
tion, we get the poetry of
Ulanova’s dancing, while Romeo
interrupts a passionate declara-
tion pf his love or despair to
leap like a cricket and spin like a
top, and Mercutio prolongs his
death-agony for several minutes
by dancing with extraordinary
vigor for a man who has just
been skewered by Tybalt.
“Footsteps in the Fog” (Sydney
State): Eerie fog-effects are used
extensively to bolster this crime-
thriller set in the gaslight-and-
antimacassar days. Stewart
Granger bumps his wife off, but
a servant (Jean Simmons) has
seen the deed and blackmails
him, not for cash but for luv.
He follows Jean in fog, very
stealthily. Another murrrder,
but wrong dame. Very frustrat-
ing all round, even, at times, to
the audience, but tension remains
fairly tight throughout.
“Good Morning, Miss Dove”
(Sydney Century): Gentle senti-
ment, in a series of flashbacks,
about a spinster-schoolmarm and
her influence on the people who
have passed through her hands.
The characters are reasonably
well drawn, and Jennifer Jones,
in the chief role, convincingly
ages and manages to wring as
much credence out of the part as
a not-too-inspired script allows.
“Stripes in the Sun” (Sydney
Lyceum): Jap-hating top-sarge in
U.S. Occupation Army in Osaka
has change of heart on meeting
beauteous Jap girl. He founds an
orphanage, and even his C.O.
smiles benignly on discovering
that orphanage larder is packed
with tucker purloined from
Army-stores.


* Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts”
No. 22*
ms
m.
mm
■
»
®:SS
&
pm
m
m*
The First Agricultural Show
Sydney s Show, which is one of the greatest
annual spectacles in the world, had its
b||>nmn g s in a fair held at Parramatta, in
This fair grew out of a Government Order issued
Dy Governor Macquarie on December 26, 1812,
establishing a public market in Parramatta.
Under the Order, market days were fixed for
Thursdays from 6 a.m. until noon, a store was
built for grain, and stalls and yards for stock.
At that time, the main problem facing farmers
was not production, but marketing. They could
not leave their farms and families unprotected
and take their stock or crops to Sydney or Parra-
matta. As a result, they were obliged to accept
what they were offered on the spot, and fore-
stalled reaped the financial harvest.
The marketing venture established at Parra-
matta by Governor Macquarie was so successful
that the colony s leading agriculturists decided to
? rg . a <?oo e ‘ • At a mee ting held in Sydney on July
5, 1822, it was resolved:
"That it is highly expedient for the best in-
terests of' the Colony that the present meeting
do form itself into a Society to be denomina-
ted '■ The Agricultural Society of New
South Wales.’ "
This meeting, organised by Edward Woolstone-
***«, held in the premises of James Robertson
at No. 6, George Street (Robertson’s son, John,
became Sir John Robertson, k.c.m.g., five times
Prime Minister of N.S.W.).
Sir John Jamison was elected president of the
Society ; Mr. Justice Barron Field, the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, William Cox and Dr. Robert
Townson were appointed vice-presidents; and
George T. Palmer and Alexander Berry became
the secretaries. There was a committee of 25
members.
The first function arranged by the Society
was a dinner at Parramatta on July 16, 1832
attended by “upwards of 80 gentlemen of the
first rank and opulence in the Territory,” in-
cluding the Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane.
Sir Thomas not only consented to become
the Patron, but he endowed the Society with a
grant of land for experiments or the depasturing
of stock imported by the Society.
The first award of any kind made by the
Society was a silver tankard given to Jonas
Bradley, of Windsor Road, on February 4, 1823,
u negro-head tobacco. A week later,
the Society offered a reward of half a dollar for
every dingo tail brought in.
The Society’s next move was to offer prizes
tor stock. Entries were paraded at the Parra-
matta Fair on October 7, 1823—and this Fair
can properly be regarded as Australia’s first
agricultural show
The Society and its show continued for 10
years, but unexpectedly collapsed in 1834. One
of its last acts was to return to the Government
oj acres of land granted by Governor Brisbane
a ?.., a . model farm (the Kings School was—and
still is —established on this site).
After a long interval, the Society was revived
on March 9, 1857, at Liverpool (then the ter-
minus of the Southern Railway line). It held
a?, i t „ Sy J lne } r Show on May 4, 1869, at Prince
Alfred Park, the Cleveland Street Public School
, used as the main exhibition pavilion.
The City Council erected the Exhibition Building
and rented it to the Society, which held its first
show there m 1880.
A lease was obtained by the
Society of 40 acres of the Sydney
Common at Moore Park, and
staged its first show there in 1882.
The Society was granted the
nght to use the prefix “Royal” by
Queen Victoria in 1891.
This exhibition grown until
the Royal Sydney Snow has
reached its spectacular pro-
portions to-day.
mwff (
Sir Thomas Brisbane .
Fust in Quality First in Favour
MUITAHUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
* Copies o} each of the xeriet printed on Art Paper, available free on application.
HF22
A garibaldi Veteran
By
Robert D. FitzGerald
CORNELIUS KENNEDY
bought a house for him-
self at the western end of
Madeline - street and
lived there in his old age.
It was a small stone building
which had been a stable or a
feed-shed, and contained only
one room ; but it was enough for
his needs. The place’s great
virtue in his eyes was that it had
a high stone wall round it which
would keep out his tormentors,
“them bhoys” ; and he used to
lock the big double gates on the
inside when he went out, and
climb in and out over the wall.
This he evidently considered
beyond the mental capacity of
the bhoys, since it clearly was
no great physical feat for
himself.
Rest his soul, he died long
before I was born ; but the house
is still standing, I think, built
into the design of a much more
modern dwelling. And while
that might be a commentary on
the rapidity of human transience
contrasted with the slower
though equally - inevitable
transience of mortar and
masonry, it is also tribute to
the sustaining power of tradi-
tion beyond the expectation of
the individual; for the surviving
stonework —or its image in the
mind if none, after' all, survives
—is still “old Con’s house,” even
though I may be the only one
alive to call it so.
Con would have been
astonished at that. He had no
hope or thought that anyone
would notice his passing or think
of him for very long. My
mother, I know, met him in the
street, sadly crippled with
rheumatism ; and he was wear-
ing wide black crepe arm-bands
on both arms.
“Ah, Con,” she said, “I’m
sorry to see you’ve had bad
news. Tell me, Con, who is
dead?”
“There’s no one dead, Mrs.
Bob.”
“But the black you’re wearing,
Con?”
“ ’Tis for myself I do be
wearing it, Mrs. Bob. It’s
going to die I am soon, to be
sure ; and I did be thinking that
when I’m gone there’s no one
will be wearing it for me, and
I’d best be wearing it myself this
day.”
Poor, lonely old man! It was
while he was lying doubled up
with that rheumatism that my
father, with a true faith in
whisky Irish whisky —as a
remedy for all ills, though he
drank little of it himself remedi-
ally or otherwise, took a bottle
round to the cottage thinking it
might be a comfort to the old
fellow, in the circumstances,
and would do no harm if it did
no good either.
This was an extra bottle over
and above the one he gave every
Christmas; and Con was
profuse in his thanks. My
father looked round for some-
where to put it while he hunted
for a corkscrew, and it was then
he saw another full bottle over
the lintel of the door.'
“Why, Con,” he said, “that’s
the bottle I gave you months
ago, last Christmas.”
“Indade you did, Master Bob,
and the kind thought with it.”
“But you’ve not touched a
drop of it! ”
“It was in me mind that I
might be getting a taste for it,
and me nearly ready to meet
me Maker.”
My father used to tell that
story with amazement at Con,
a sober man all his life, being
afraid to touch the good stuff
at all for fear of acquiring a
taste for it even in his advanced
years ; but I think he might have
remembered that Con never did
drink when, years eajflier, he and
his friends would gather for the
evening at the old Garibaldi
Hotel, and that a few of his
feats that had made great talk
*in those days might be put down
to a clear head, if a simple one,
among one or two heads not
quite so clear.
TI7HEN the FitzGeralds went
broke in Ireland and
decided to come to Australia,
“ Con elected to come, too.
Cornelius Kennedy, as he
proudly signed himself after my
father taught him to write, was
a now-forgotten type: the faith-
ful family retainer. Whether or
not he might be paid any wages
when he got here was apparently
of little concern to him so long
as he might remain with the
people he was used to ; and in
fact I don’t suppose he was
paid much.
So he worked around the
place and wore my grandfather’s
old clothes, though Con
weighed but and
stood about 9in., whereas
my grandfather’s 6ft. of height
had with which to fill
out those same clothes. The
scarecrow figure with the short
stump of a clay pipe stuck in his
mouth must have been a born
butt for the lads of the Gari-
baldi, even if the man himself
had not been the singular fellow
he was.
Con was the original hero of
the story of the man who climbed
a tree to saw off a branch and
sawed himself off with it. He
really did do that, coming down
with a bump, but limping off
afterwards not much the worse
but with some loss of dignity at
having to receive minor repairs
from “they women in the
kitchen,” to whom he always
referred in tones of withering
contempt.
Perhaps I have said enough
to indicate that such a thing as
that fall might have been
expected of old Con. Certainly
it was the sort of thing the
Garibaldi expected.
The Garibaldi stands at the
corner of Alexandria-street and
Ferry-street. It is a pub no
longer; but on the second-floor,
in a niche over the door that
once opened into the bar, there
is to this day a lovely piece of
Italian statuary, a reminder of
the days that were.
I understand that an early
member of the Joubert family
brought over from France and
Italy skilled* artisans for special
building-projects, and that that
is why if you start thinking up
the old and respected names on
Hunter’s Hill you immediately
find yourself among Rinaldis,
Cuneos, Bondiettis, Ferraris and
the like. The Garibaldi was
their pub and that of their Aus-
tralian sons and friends; and
Con, sitting there each evening,
was no small part of the enter*
tainment. Easy to get a comical
answer from the harmless
fellow, not nearly so easy
perhaps to get a rise. It did
seem, though, that they had
him on over boat-racing.
13 OWING-RACES were just
then the vogue. All the
young locals were challenging
each other to races in Tarban
Creek, laying bets on this one
or that one and on themselves.
Short sprints were favored
mostly in the heavy utility-skiffs
they used ; though sometimes
they might race the mile or so
stretch of Parramatta River
from Gladesville Bridge to
Hunter’s Hill Wharf. My
father, telling me of it, could
not remember the name of the
local champion ; but the others
persuaded Con, poor fellow, to
challenge him.
Con wasn’t having any. Not
at first.
“Go on, Con, you could beat
him. We’ve seen you rowing.
We know you can row. A long
way in a long time, eh, Con?”
And if roars of laughter
followed this enormous wit, Con
was not unduly upset by the
young lads enjoying themselves.
And it was quite true that he
had been seen rowing in the
FitzGeralds’ skiff, using a some-
what hand-over-hand style, all
his own —slow and irregular,
ragged but dogged. My father
(a boy in those days) would
come home from school to find
him practising on the river.
“But you’re not going to race
him, Con?”
“ ’Tis the bit of rowing I’ve
done in me time, Master Bob;
I’m after thinking I might put
a little money on it; and it’s the
grand race it might be.”
“Don’t be a fool, Con.'”
“Indade I will not.”
And that was the end of it
for the time. Rut Con’s
tormentors would not leave him
alone ; perhaps he was counting
on it that they would not. For
eventually he challenged, stipu-
lating that he should set the
course and row in the
FitzGeralds’ skiff. He took all
the bets offering. The good-
hearted fellows had no intention
of taking him down, however;
they meant to find one excuse or
another to refuse their winnings.
It was fun they were after, not
poor Con’s savings towards a
house for his old age.
The day came, with Con
waiting at Hunter’s Hill
Wharf in the skiff—described to
me as “a deceptive beauty, light
as a feather, a real racing skiff,
painted over the varnish.”
The champion came down
the Ferry-street hill and all his
backers with him, emptying the
Garibaldi bar, ready to cheer
Con to th£ echo as the champion
rowed round him in a ring—as
it was expected he would do,
even in the short course the
Irishman had hinted was the
most he felt he could manage.
They took it for granted the race
would be a sprint.
That was not Con’s idea. He
set a course from the wharf
round Pulpit Point, round
Cockatoo Island, Schnapper
Island and Spectacle Island and
back to the wharf —six miles
or more. The champion, a mass
of style, was 200yds. in front
in his heavy boat at Pulpit
Point, Con just plodding along;
but it was old Con who came
in 200yds. in front at the finish
at the same slow rate he started
at.
I never was sure whether the
moral of the story of the hare
and the tortoise is that dogged
does it or that you must be
wide-awake to win. The crowd
had their fun all right and
probably reckoned it was well
worth it if they came away with
lighter pockets. What their late
champion thought is not
recorded.
'V/'OU would have thought
A they would have left Con
alone after that; but he was
really not the sort of man good'
humored teasing can ever leave
alone for long. Besides, rowing
is one thing and jumping
o Continued on page 22)


Death on the Danmap
By G. H. FEARNSIDE
THERE were eighteen of us
on the island. The
Colonel had made his tac-
tical appreciation and
issued his orders, and, as a con-
sequence, we found that our
task was to protect the Batta-
lion’s right-flank and enfilade
the water-approaches.
For this assignment we had
two Vickers Medium machine-
guns, rifles, grenades, and Owen-
guns. To-date, no contact had
been made with the Japanese on
the first-leg of that initial thrust
from Aitape to Wewak, but we
were getting near them now. It
was the Colonel’s intention —so
far as one could divine the
intentions of him whom zealous
sam’-majors had assured us
ranked second only to God —
to establish a firm base, and
patrol offensively forward.
It was a small island some
twenty-yards in diameter. If
you were looking for an adjec-
tive to describe it geometrically
you’d probably say it was
round. That would be near-
enough. It was situated at the
junction of the Danmap River
and Mimni Creek. Behind us
those waterways met and
delivered their muddy tribute
to the sea, some five-miles
down-jungle.
At the top end of our island
was a collection of huge
boulders. We did not take much
notice of them when we arrived,
but we had occasion to think a
lot about them later. A couple
of them were massive, standing
six- or seven-feet above water-
level and about as broad and
long as they were tall.
There were a few trees on our
island, of varying sizes. The
largest had a bole about one-
foot through.
“All we lack here,” Crowhurst
said, “is Dotty Lamour.” .
In all it promised an agree-
able-enough bivouac, except,
perhaps, to the more imaginative,
who appraised the jungle-clad
hills across the river with some
misgiving. Certainly it had the
merit of novelty, and was a vast
improvement on some of the
positions in which we had found
ourselves in nearly six years of
war.
The island was about fifteen-
yards from the mainland, and
connected to it by the trunk of
a huge tree that had been felled
at the river’s edge. It made a
passable bridge. When the time
came, the Quartermaster, or one
of his men, would give us a call
and we would go severally
across the bridge to the mess-
parades.
ON the second afternoon it
rained. No one is ever sur-
prised when it rains in New
Guinea. There you don’t talk
of the Wet, or of this equinox or
that, although no doubt such
phenomena pertain. Our recollec-
tions of it, as soldiers, was of
alternating periods of fierce
humidity and torrential rains.
Those who weren’t on duty
near the guns lay beneath their
tent-halves and listened to the
rain on the canvas. Our
stretchers were poled and
lashed above ground-level, clear
of any of the mites that carry
the scrub-typhus germs.
Civilisation steps back a pace
or two when one goes soldiering
in the jungle. The point was
that nobody took much notice
of the rain.
When night came there was a
darkness on the jungle that
called to mind the opening lines
of the Bible —that part, which
says: “There was darkness upon
the face of the deep.” Only
from the river an eerie and
unreal light gleamed ; not that
it was really light—just a less-
black strip upon a field of
indescribable blackness.
The weapon-pits were full of
water. The disconsolate
gunners sat with their glistening
groundsheets about them, star-
ing out into the rain, seeing
nothing and hearing nothing
but the rain splashing on the
leaves and the noises from the
river. Those off-duty crawled
on to their wet bunks and tried
to sleep.
About 8 p.m. the sentry
aroused the bivouac. He had
alarming news. He said the
river had come up at an astonish-
ing rate and was still rising.
The lower portions of the island,
he said, were already awash.
Most amazing of all was his
disconcerting statement that the
bridge connecting us with the
mainland had been washed
away. We did not think that
possible; however, it had indeed
happened.
When we crawled from be-
neath our tent-halves and stood
up, there was water swirling
about our ankles. The platoon-
commander asked the sentry
why he hadn’t sounded the
alarm earlier. The sentry
replied that he had seen no point
in doing that —it had been rain-
ing like the devil all through his
watch, but no more so than dur-
ing the afternoon. Only when
the bridge went did he consider
that matters were getting out of
hand.
In the pouring rain we
gathered our weapons and
accoutrement into soggy heaps
and splashed towards the higher
ground of the island. The
fifteen-yards between our island
and the Battalion’s flank was now
thirty - yards thirty - yards of
boiling, swirling, rushing river.
It seemed to all of us that the
only sensible thing to do was to
stay on the high ground and
wait for the river to subside.
Even then, and certainly later,,
nobody thought he could have
reached the mainland. We
could hear the fury of the river
as it roared and boiled through
the defile.
It was, of course, not a night
on which to be fighting a war,
and security-regulations went
overboard. Torches were used
as the men acquainted them-
selves with the desolation about
them. Over on the mainland
we could see other torches mot-
ing about as our comrades
backed away from the ever-
rising waterline. We tried to
hail them, bilt above the roar of
the river and the drumming of
the rain we heard no answer-
ing call.
Could a line be got to the
mainland, someone asked?
Yes, we said, if the man who
carried the line were fired out
of a cannon, like the stunt-man
at the circus, and if we had a
line. We had no alternative but
to wait for the river to go down.
It had to go down. This was a
wide river and the sea was but
five short miles away.
The Lieutenant ordered that
the guns, tripods and stores be
lashed-up in the forks of the
trees, and this was done:
Whether he did that to
employ our minds or to pre-
serve the stores entrusted to his
care, we will never know.
There was small-talk, of
course. No one was to know
that within a matter of minutes
seven men would be dead.
Naseby was cursing because his
tobacco had got wet; Peters
was saying that if ever the
Army had occasion to bring
around a rum-issue, this was it.
Crowhurst was asking wasn’t it
just like the Army to get into
these damnfool, impossible
situations?
Someone asked where young
Curly Bridger was. Curly, we
all knew, couldn’t swim.
Another remembered seeing him
hugging the bole of a tree on
that side of the island nearest
the mainland. That meant, he
would be in water up to his
waist, but maybe he felt safer
there: he was that much nearer
the mainland.
One of the smaller trees on the
island went down with a crack ;
then another.
Peters said the situation was
getting a trifle serious, and took
off all his clothes, throwing them,
in a most odd fashion, into the
torrent. It was an extraordinary
thing, but we all followed his
lead as if he were the fugleman
at the right of the line and we
were taking our cue from him.
All excepting the Lieutenant,
that is. He divested not one item
of his apparel. He carried his
compass and pistol, and had his
boots on. I have recalled since
what Ney said after Waterloo —
“Come and see how a Marshal
of France can die. . .”
ABOUT that time, when the
water had reached near our
waists, we became aware of a
greater peril. Against the
boulders at the extremity of our
island, upstream, had accumu-
lated tons of timber that had
been ripped from the margins of
the jungle.
The pile grew quickly, to
(Continued on page 23)


IT APPOINTMENT
ID HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
tURVEYGRS OF MOTOR LUBRICANTS
f£.WAKEfIELO | CH LTD. LONDON Wi
0
mourm
J
lor
m
lit
!
} '
C M-'-
x\\£
vo
tv«
&
■iOV
another; and perhaps they
wanted a bit of their own back.
For soon afterwards my
father, coming home from
school, found Con feebly
making standing long-jumps on
the front path.
“And what might you be
doing this time, Con?”
“I do be lepping, Master Bob.”
“I can see that, Con, but what
for?”
“ ’Tis they young lads at the
pub ; they do all be lepping these
nights; and I did be telling
them I could bate the best of
them.”
Con toed his mark on the
ground and swung his arms. A
long vigorous arm-swing was a
marked feature of his style of
broad-jump. Then he lepped—
my grandfather’s huge coat
flapping behind him like a pair
of wings.
“But Con,” said my father,
eyeing the pitifully short length
of path covered by the lep,
“you’ve not bet money on it?”
“ ’Tis the grand lepper I was
as a bhoy ; and they young lads,
they’re not so good as they do
be thinking they are,” said Con.
And my father had to be content
with that; but he made very
sure of finding out from other
sources when the great contest
was to be.
I think he told me it was a
Gammie who was the Garibaldi
champion at the standing-jump ;
we’ll call him Gammie. then —a
name as stitched into the fabric
of Hunter’s Hill life as those of
the Italians themselves. And he
really could jump; for my
father, who sneaked away from
his homework that night to
watch the fun, saw him clear
well over lift, at a stand on his
first jump.
Con, taking up bets all round,
had stipulated that he should
jump last and that they should
have the usual three jumps each.
It was now his turn.
He looked at Gammie’s jump
carefully and measured it out
with his own two feet placed
successively one in front of the
other; then, still wearing my
grandfather’s big coat, the
pockets of which came nearly
to his knees, he stood to the
mark and .swung his arms in
his exaggerated style. Then he
made his lep—a good sft. at
least —and sat down quite un-
concerned at the general hilarity.
Gammie made his second
jump, not with any great effort,
a little short of his first; and
Con tried again with much the
same result as the first time.
Whereupon Gammie, nearly too
paralysed with mirth to jump,
anyway, gave away his third
jump ; and it was up to Con
again.
So Con toed the line for the
third and last time. He swung
his arms. Then he stopped.
“Come on, Con,” they all
yelled. “You can make it.
You’ve got to do it this time.”
Con felt in the two pockets of
his coat and brought from each
—a brick! With a brick in
bach hand he again swung
lustily three times, and on the
third swing he lepped, hurling
the bricks behind him as he did
so ; and with the aid of this
primitive form of jet-propulsion
he made a tremendous lep, beat-
ing' Gammie’s best by a full
six-inches.
The bricks struck heavily
against the wall of the pub,
leaving a dent which may be
there yet. Perhaps Miss Taniane
(Irish, too), who runs the
Garibaldi today as a busy shop,
notices the dent from time to
time ; though she can hardly be
aware how it was made by her
fellow-countryman of long ago.
That mark, whether it be still
there or not, and the ghost of a
full bottle over a door that is
no longer a door, are a better
memory of you surely, Con,
than all the black crepe that
could be worn by all the
mourners in the world.
various Hands
By O. GEE
‘ ‘ s~y HE’S from Lapland,” the
W chief-engineer told his
L-J second and third. Four
hours previously they had
speculated on the nationality of
the lady they had seen coming
on board.
“She’s an ex-schoolteacher,”
the chief said. “I sat next to her
at lunch. She had been on a visit
to her married sister in England,
but they wouldn’t let her stay
there because she was not a
British subject. ‘England have
the beautiful climate but in
Lapland it eez so co-o-old,’ she
told us.
“The three other passengers
said that their wives wanted to
come out to the East because
England was too cold. She was
still talking as we left the saloon.
She told me straight out that her
object in coming to the East was
to meet and marry an English-
man.
“ ‘This would have been my
lucky day,’ I said, ‘if I didn’t
have a wife and three kids at
home.’ Then I told her the
captain had no wife —but I didn’t
let-on that he had been
divorced.”
“Now, there’s a chance for
you,” said Williams to McPher-
son ; “she’s got money, too.”
“And how in hell, mon,” asked
the third-engineer, “cuid I pass
mysel’ off as an Englishmon?”
“How old is Miss Lapland?”
the second asked.
“She said she was twenty-
nine,” the chief replied. *
“I’m thinkin’ she was —but not
latterly,” said the third.
AT midnight McPherson went
on watch. Twenty minutes
later he was cooling-off under a
stokehold ventilator. Coming
down with the breeze he heard a
voice, a very faint voice, which
he knew could only be coming
from the after-part of the upper-
deck. He could not catch what
was being said, and in any case
it was of no interest to him. But
soon he heard Miss Lapland’s
voice:
“Thank you, no, I am not the
cigarette-smoking kind.”
Then silence.
He did a round of inspection
in the engine-room ; performed a
few routine duties; and, drip-
ping with perspiration, was glad
to get under the, ventilator again.
Bits of conversation were still
slightly audible. Then he heard
in a firm, clear voice, without
sign of annoyance:
“No, Captain, I am not the
hand-holding kind.”
TTHIS was the main item in
A McPherson’s report to
Williams, when relieved by him
at four-o’clock.
After a careful inspection, the
second said: “Everything seems
all right. You can turn-in now—
there’s no need to stay here and
hold my hand.”
And, as the third started to
climb, he added: “It’s bloody
hot down here this morning! ”
McPherson halted on \ the
fourth step. “Aye, hot down
here,” he agreed, “but in Lap-
land it eez so co-o-old! ”
Six hours later a sailor shouted
across the deck: “Hey, Bill, will
yer lend u§ a ’and with this ’ere
rope?”
Instead of getting the usual
vulgar reply, he was told with
mock haughtiness: “No, Alfred,
I am not one of the hand-lending
type.”
Sitting on the hatch, after the
day’s work, Bill told the rest of
the sailors: “What Alf’s been
talkin’ about reminds me of that
last port in the Philippines. I was
in a shop an’ two blokes went
past ’oldin’ each other’s ’ands.
The Yank shopkeeper told me:
‘When yer see two of those
soanso guys gettin’ around like
that, don’t think it’s brotherly
affection. The truth is they
gotta ’old each other’s ’ands to
make sure they don’t pick each
other’s pockets.’ ”
The following morning the
chief-engineer produced a piece
of paper, and told his juniors:
“Another billet-doux from the
all-highest. He complains of that
wash-deck valve for’ard. It’s been
leaking and hissing all night—
says his passengers couldn’t get
a wink of sleep.”
“He never misses a chance to
have a go at us,” the second
remarked.
“Did he no’ complain aboot
the loss of guid salt water?” Mc-
Pherson asked.
YjyILLLA.MS, assisted by the
newest Indian coal-
trimmer, tackled the deck-valve
job. The ship was rolling, and a
drizzle had made the steel deck
slippery. The Indian was wear-
ing heavy Army-boots, shod with
steel. He was as new to foot-
wear as he was to sea-travel.
Williams sent him to the
engine-room for the “big double-
ended spanner.” He had to repeat
it three times before the Indian
could give a reasonable repro-
duction of the sound. The coal-
trimmer had no idea of what he
had to get, but, by repeating the
sounds, parrot-fashion, he was
fairly, word-perfect when he
reached the third’s cabin.
He returned to the fore-deck,
taking' grotesque steps, as a big
roll came on. The big double-
ended spanner hit the deck with
a resounding clatter, and the
terrified Indian grabbed, and
clung to, the port-side railing.
The captain, on the upper
deck, in the midst of his
four passengers, shouted, in his
most sarcastic manner: “Mr.
Williams. Will you please come
along to this mother’s-boy, and
hold his hand while he walks
along the deck?”
The second straightened up,
and, in a firm, clear voice, with-
out sign of annoyance, replied:
“No, Captain, I am not one of
the hand-holding kind.”
HIS READER
The crust he flung away
Has fed a starving bird,
A hungry soul has snatched
His half-forgotten word.
He worked upon that phrase
Which now he has forgot—
The passion and the toil
Are now remembered not.
The seed has flown abroad
Into a world unknown;
Unknown too is the hand
That made the thing its own.
The passion and the toil
Have left their ugly scar,
He is not now the man
Who fought that bitter war.
The thing so smooth and fine
Out of his vitals sprang,
The devil he fought has left
The imprint of his fang.
Now he can never know
Aught of that questing heart
Which has turned to gold
The offal of his art.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


*+
rn
OOQ
Y
«>
A
*T
‘•A.»
U/
0)
yj
?IS
xvS
sSS
las
a \q
infrAf?
MIBmT Jdl
tX/
5
AVIATION'
w
/SERVICE,.
LOi
LULU
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate oj
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
The Famous
Sol ingen Knives
m
BOWIE
V*
isag t
m
YY
f:
v.
• The Bowie knife is of the
original design made by Colonel
Bowie during the Indian fighting
days of U.S.A. Strong, rugged
and a beautiful blade perfectly
weighted. Staghorn handle.
Fringed leather sheath. Length,
12 inches. Weight, fib.
Price 75/-. Post free.
• The Stag Hunting Knife, Eagle’s head pommel, staghorn handle,
blade etched in three colours. Leather sheath. Length, 10 inches.
Price 50/-. Post free.
• The Rhine Maiden Hunting Knife, with hammer-forged blade.
Splendid balance. Beautifully sculptured metal handle, gold finished.
Length, 10£ inches, with metal-tipped dress sheath.
Price 50/-. Posted.
• The famous Black Forest Hunting Knife with metal-tipped dress
sheath. Price 45/-. Post free.
C.O.D. CHARGES EXTRA
DELIVERY BY RETURN MAIL.
RIP OUT AND POST
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS,
BOX 7051, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please Supply ;
For which I Enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
283 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. PHONE: 8M3102 825/4
immense and terrifying propor-
tions. We could hear the slap
and shudder of logs as they
crashed into the heaving obstacle.
It outlined itself against the river
as a rearing black pile that
crackled and groaned like a
thousand wooden ships in a
tempest. When that pile broke,
when those boulders gave, an
avalanche of timber would be
swept down upon seventeen
naked men and one man who
chose to keep his clothes on.
We scrambled up into the
trees, helpless, primitive creatures
suddenly "brought face-to-face
with the fury of Nature. Of a
sudden we knew we would be
embroiled in a maelstrom, and
we would be powerless to help
•ourselves, like participants in a
nightmare.
The Lieutenant, shouting to
make himself heard for those few
troubled yards, called that it was
every man for himself. It
couldn’t have been otherwise, but
that made it official.
Someone noticed that Curly
was gone.
One by one the trees on our
island were eased over into the
torrent. Naked men were circled
slowly back into the water, like
pole-vaulters in slow motion,
coming down to earth. Only this
time they couldn’t touch bottom.
They clung desperately to the
trees that still stood, their naked
bodies pressed against them, like
driftwood.
There was an ominous crackle
as the great pile of timber at the
top of the island waddled
forward. Hundreds of tons of
green timber was being pressed
forward against the resisting
boulders. Then those boulders
groaned and moved forward, like
nightmarish monsters emerging
from the deep. Once they moved,
the torrent changed tlie pattern
of the timber ; the monstrous pile
heaved convulsively and the
timber scattered, flying into the
torrent like a shower of heavy
assegais.
On the instant our island was
engulfed, and we were flung pell-
mell into the torrent —or some
of us were. Some were killed
instantly in that onslaught,
behind which the boulders
lumbered as in a frenzy; others
were swirled beneath the press of
timber and drowned; others
were knocked unconscious and
their bodies snatched into the
torrent and sent racing down-
stream.
TT/E were no longer a military
*’ group acting in cohesion, but
individuals acting for ourselves.
I found myself far out in the
river-proper straddling a log that
sped forward like an express-
train. I looked back to the
island, but there was no
island —no trees, no boulders, no
men, only a heaving, sickening
darkness into which the rain
poured in torrents.
Immediately ahead there was
another pile of timber rearing in
the river ; I braced myself as the
log on which I sat cannoned into
it. I remember the physical pain,
and the consuming- panic, and
turning over and over in the
water, like an otter ... down,
down, down.
I tried to fight my way to the
.surface, but my legs were held
fast by the timber. There was a
loud ringing in my ears, and it
seemed as if some force were
welling upwards through my
chest. All I could think, of was
that my wife was pregnant and
would have her baby soon. Such
is the inconsequence of thought.
I knew the force and fury of
water then, as I had* never known
it before. This is it, I thought.
There is nothing you can do.
This is it.
The agitation of the water, and
in no way my own efforts, freed
me, and I stood, miraculously,
in the shallows. I was snarling
for breath, but strangely ex-
hilarated. The water raged about
my waist, and the force of it
sent me stumbling forward.
Never let me hear talk about
drowning being a pleasant death,
I thought.
At some point along the river’s
course, where it entered into the
jungle, I was drawn into a
backwash of boiling water and
tossing logs. I climbed into the
branches of a giant tree that had
been dragged down by the river,
and thanked God for my
deliverance.
It must have been only minutes
later that Crowhurst joined me. I
heard the commotion beneath
the branch on which I sat, and
reached down and helped him
up. He had a great cut over his
eye ; even in the half-light I could
see the blood streaming down his
face. He was suffering badly
from shock. A few days later
he went completely troppo, and
used to sit on the end of his bed
in the hospital at Aitape and
“fish” into the aisle.
Peters was washed up near
by. We struggled through a belt
of pit-pit that lay between us
and what we thought was the
jungle proper, but at the edge
of the pit-pit there was a mill-
race, which we decided not to
hazard. I kept thinking of an
alligator we had caught in a net
back in Aitape.
We climbed the biggest tree we
could find three naked,
exhausted men —and waited for
the dawn, about six hours away.
When the rain stopped, the mos-
quitoes came about in swarms,
and they bit the hell out of us.
TPHE river went down. We
could see the waterline
receding as the mud traced an
even line along the jungle's
foliage.
When dawn came the line
stood high above the water, like
a fence of mud drawn on a green
backdrop. For as far as the eye
could see, great trees lay motion-
less, their branches torn and
twisted. They were like giants
that had struggled in these primi-
tive forests and fallen in combat.
Only the water moved about
them, muddy and racing,
racing ...
We climbed down and waded
waist-deep through mud to firm
ground, with the conviction in
our hearts that we alone had
survived that dreadful night. We
found the quagmire that passed
for a track and followed ]t up-
river.
It was soon established that we
had lost seven of our comrades —
the remainder had been washed
up, or had struggled ashore, at
varying points along the river.
The Lieutenant was safe,
dressed as he had been when last
we saw him. He had also
managed to hang on to his pistol
and compass. Only his boots
were missing.
We were to learn that part of
the mountain had plunged
into the river soon after night
had fallen. It had dammed the
river until the weight of water
had burst its containing-wall
and the torrent had been un-
leashed along the river-bed.
Eventually all the survivors
from our island went back to
hospital as a result of the experi-
ences of that night. One fellow
contracted scrub-typhus, two
finished-up in mental wards ; the
rest suffered from malaria, the
effects of immersion, shock, and
exhaustion.
When, later, a few of us got
around to rejoining the Battalion,
we stopped-by to look for our
island. Only there was no island.
Two small black stones marked
the spot where it had been—
two small black stones about
which the muddy waters of the
Danmap rippled on their way
to the sea.


INSTRUMENTS
to build
Australia’s
future...
Instruments and equipment from Esdailes are
playing a big part in building Australia’s future
—including the supply of the major propor-
tion of Surveying and Drafting instruments
used in the great Snowy River project.
Specialists in the optical field for almost 70
years and leaders in the supply of all types of
Agricultural, Meteorological, Industrial ■ and
Technical Instruments, Esdaile’s have the
“know-how” and the specialised workshops
and staff to supply YOUR most exacting
requirements.
/
Illustrated here are but a few of the many items
available: “Sirius” Minor Dumpy Level, Minimum-
Maximum and Wet and Dry bulb Thermometers,
Rain gauge, Slide rule and Drawing and Drafting
instruments and equipment. Also available is a wide
range of Binoculars, Telescopes, Steel and Metallic
tapes and all necessary instruments for the farmer.
Write or ’phone for full details or advice concerning YOUR
particular need or problem.
0
SB
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
53 FUNDERS ST., ADELAIDE. W 2484.
Missing Friends __
SEAGRIM, Douglas Peter—WlLL
DOUGLAS PETER SEAGRIM, 'formerly
of Hawthorn, Victoria, and of 3 Ocean
Street, Waverley, N.S.W., or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please contact
R. GRANT TAYLOR, Solicitor, 360
Collins Street, Melbourne?
HOOD, James Henry.—WlLL JAMES
HENRY HOOD, late of Deniliquin,
Mathoura or Wakool district, N. S. Wales,
or any person, knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with R. GRANT
TAYLOR, Solicitor, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne ?
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
oVn fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THEM?
By KEVIN McAULIFFE
Richard butron, esq.,
was cold, hungry and
wet. His feet were damp
in the muddy shoes. His
trouser-legs flapped in the wind.
A leather raincoat kept the rest
of his body dry, and his hands
were in his pockets. His hat
spouted water; the crown made
a tank.
Rain streamed down. Trees
lining the highway dripped
motionless in the darkness. There
were no beams of light nor any
signs of habitation.
He cursed the faulty engine
that had stopped his gentle,
cushioned, warm progress along
the highway to the coast and his
comfortable holiday-home on
the esplanade, where his wife
and family were awaiting him.
He thought of the warmth of
the lounge; of the bathroom
with the new electric hot-water
system. Dwelt upon the dinner
he had missed ; rum in a warm
glass, carpet-slippers, dry clothes,
newspapers. A kingdom where
he ruled, protected by his loving
subjects.
And the highway was ghost-
like ; bitumen slippery under-
foot. He came to a bridge.
Willow-trees bent their sorrow-
ing heads and sobbed over him.
He felt like sobbing, too.
Lights were approaching. He
could see the car’s headlights
dimly through the rain. He
crouched against the bridge-rail,
listening to the torrent under-
neath. He thought the car might
stop, although it was heading in
the wrong direction. But it did
not stop. It went past, its
occupants unknown. Its wheels
went through a deep pool of
muddy water. The water rose in
the air and slashed at him
savagely, penetrated his leather
coat, wet him to the skin, wet his
face, filled his streaming eyes
with mud.
He clung to the twisted rail
while he wiped his eyes free of
the mud with a handkerchief.
Blinded, he swayed on the shaky
bridge while the skies opened.
Underneath, the tormented
waters of the river dashed against
the rotting planks. He saw him-
self struggling for fife in the
bramble-strewn torrent.
He advanced cautiously. He
hoped there would be no more
cars until he got over. This
journey seemed long. This was
a night he would remember.
He was over at last. He stood
there dripping. A further stretch
of roadway lay before him;
small rivulets ran across it; the
road curled upwards to a high
hill, finally ending amid the
solitude of tree-shrouded slopes.
The hum of an engine came to
him, and he scrambled off the
highway to where the gravel
rolled under his feet on the edge
of the road. The car was going
in the right direction this time.
He looked towards it, hoping,
imagining, praying. Some
instinct made him lift an arm.
TT was no ordinary hand that
pointed in the dark of night.
It was the hand of Richard But-
ron, Manufacturer, that waved
its bony fingers in the blackness.
The hand that held within its
palm the destiny of a hundred
employees, one that could dis-
cover a fault in textiles that
others, less skilled, had failed to
detect. How he wished he could
wear his glasses. But he had
dropped them somewhere along
the road.
The streamlined saloon
shuddered to a stop. Its bright
headlights stared, contemp-
tuously, into the desolation ; its
two occupants looked curiously
through the thick glass windows.
Butron staggered towards the
car. Its driver peered at him.
He wore a hat pulled well down
over his eyes.
A voice came faintly. “Want
a lift?”
Richard Butron gave no
answer, but opened the rear door
and shot in. He was conscious
of his wet clothes and muddy
shoes. He felt for the enormous
seat; sat down grimly on the
edge.
The saloon rolled off. It
glided up the hill. Rain flayed
hopelessly at the shining steel
cabin coasting-on. The man in
the back could hear the click of
the twin windscreen-wipers.
The driver was silent. The
woman made no conversation.
She was almost hidden from
sight by her furs. A radio
played softly. The car purred
on.
Butron knew power when he
saw it. The woman looked
foreign in the brief glimpse he’d
had of her as he got in. Might
be a couple of Americans on a
world-tour. Americans got
about. A faint wave of perfume
came back to him from the furs,
mingling with well-warmed
furnishings.
Butron relaxed; stretched his
muscles carefully. He wished he
“I know it's cooler , Fred , but We might bump into a
picnic party."
wasn’t so wet, was thankful to
be on the way home. The
garage would have to be notified.
He didn’t envy them their task.
He wondered if he would catch
cold. Better get his mind off his
troubles. Wondered more about
the two in front. Now and
again the man addressed a re-
mark to his companion, but she
made no reply. The saloon ran
on along the highway. Houses
went by. Shadowy shapes. All
unlit.
He felt chill going through
him, despite the warmth. He
thought of the welcome almost
within reach. It could not be
further than a dozen miles. He
began recognising landmarks.
Perfume filled the car. He
could see the top of the woman’s
head. She had dark hair. The
man’s hands on the wheel were
steady, capable. The woman
was much smaller than the man.
Her head, at times, touched his
shoulder.
Butron had always wanted to
travel. He felt he’d like to roam
in strange countries if he had the
time. These two had travelled in
many lands, seen other nations,
races, in Africa, China, Spain,
Europe; seen the contrasts be-
tween East and West, hunted
lions in the jungles, skirted
several wars. They had known
places and people famous in the
news-columns of the world.
Most tourists left Australia last;
those who did come here had
generally seen the world. He
caught some hint of mystery in
the perfume of strange flowers
blown gently back to him by the
faint breeze.
They let him down at his front-
door. He was gratified, but they
cut his oration short and merely
smiled—or he thought the
woman had when they drove off.
He went speedily to his bath,
change and dinner.
Later, sinking gratefully under
the bedclothes, he told his wife
all about it; something of his
strange companions.
CHITTING in his office next day,
with the incidents of the
night well buried, he had a visit
from his chief-of-staff. Some of
the cars were being used after-
hours. He made a note.
He found his mind wandering.
He wondered. He got up and
went into the outer office. A
young man was bent over a
ledger. He was fair. He wore a
ring.
Butron studied him in silence
for a full moment, but the
young fellow never looked up
from his task of adding-up
columns of figures. Butron was
turning away when something
stopped him. It was only by a
tremendous effort that he saved
himself from sniffing. A faint
perfume followed him back into
his office. So, he knew, did two
pairs of eyes.
As the little brunette said to
the fair young man in the square
while they ate their lunches,
“It was such a moment!”


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia;
From Ballarat to Brisbane
History in
Memorials
By MAY ZEE
HISTORY is where you
find it—a statue in a
street, an inscription on
a foundation - stone, a
cairn beside a busy road, or a
plaque on a wall maybe. I have
found it in all these places.
Ballarat’s statues include the
monument to commemorate the
Eureka rising* on it, the names
of the diggers who died “for
liberty” and the soldiers who
died “for duty”—a nice distinc-
tion.
Of the miners, 10 were Irish-
born ; and England, Scotland
and Prussia have their repre-
sentatives. It would be interest-
ing to know the stories of Lieut.
Ross, from Canada, and Robert
Julian, from Nova Scotia, who
died so far from home. Was
Quinlan, from Goulburn, the
only Australian-born representa-
tive among those dead on that
Sunday morning?
In the main street of Ballarat
there is an inscription in memory
of the band of the Titanic —
here, far from the scene of the
disaster, tribute paid to those
who played gallantly and went
down with their ship.
Here also, of course, are Aus-
tralia’s Prime Ministers on
parade. I remember learning
the list of them once —Barton,
Deakin, Watson, Reid, etc. Very
good likenesses they are, too.
Mr. Lyons still looks like a
benevolent koala, and one can
almost imagine Mr. Chifley
smoking.
Naturally, Ballarat must re-
member its gold, so in the main
street is a replica of a huge gold
nugget, and underneath are men-
tioned other nuggets found and
their weight. The Boer War
Memorial is a good one, illus-
trating the best in war: one
soldier helping another to mount
behind him —on the wrong side,
certainly, but war knows no set
rules.
Two statues I noticed in par r
ticular in travelling about. One
in Ballarat was to Wallace. No
other inscription—but to a Scot
no other was needed. In Mel-
bourne, near a cathedral, stands
O’Connell. To his countrymen,
also, he needs no explanation—
just O’Connell.
Captain Matthew Flinders,
Navigator, is on guard over the
street of his name in Melbourne.
He stands in a small boat very
like the Tom Thumb, and he
seems aware that not far away
are the shores he helped to chart.
Simpson and his donkey still
carry their wounded soldier not
far from the Melbourne Soldiers’
Memorial. Few of us realise
that his fame grew in barely
three weeks, for Anzac Day was
April 25 and Simpson was killed
in May.
As the tourist-bus flashed by
along a Victorian road, I
noticed a memorial to Hume
and Hovell. Further investiga-
tions revealed that at the time
of the Hume and Hovell cen-
tenary, 37 memorials were un-
veiled in Victoria. Most of
them bear the simple inscrip-
tion : “Hume and Hovell passed
here,” and the date; but on the
Lara tablet is this:
17th Dec., 1824. Hume and Hovell.
Companions: Henry Angel, William
Bollard, Claude Bossawa, Thomas
Boyd, James Fitzpatrick and
Thomas Smith.
Those companions are rarely
mentioned in the history-books.
I suppose that was why I was
astonished to see, on a memorial
to Blaxland, Lawson and Went-
worth, the names of their
servants. I had always thought
they’d crossed the Blue Moun-
tains alone.
The citizens of Melbourne
paid homage to General Gordon
of Khartoum: he died on Aus-
tralia Day (January 26, 1885).
He has a companion in the same
square—another Gordon . . .
Adam Lindsay. Here we can
read the tribute paid him by
Kendall:
He sang the first great songs these
lands can claim to be their own.
Gordon’s cottage stands in
the gardens at . Ballarat.
The foundation-stones of
buildings can be interesting. On
one I noticed: “John P. Fawk-
ner purchased land here at
second Land Sales, 1837, and
built here.”
In Sydney, Vaucluse House
is history at its best. As well
as its probably well-known
features, I found near the stairs
an interesting picture of Queen
Victoria and her descendants.
On the outskirts of the crowd is
a little boy—the future Duke of
Windsor.
In a Sydney cemetery can be
found the tombstone of Major
Mitchell, and also the burial-
place of some victims of the
Dunbar tragedy. At Watson’s
Bay one can actually touch the
anchor of that ill-fated ship.
I went to the Mitchell Library
to ask where I could find con-
vict graves. “Are you looking
for an ancestor?” was the query
of the girl behind the counter.
In Sydney’s Martin-place is
a plaque with a returned-soldiers
badge on it:
This plaque is near the spot where
the late Rt. Hon. Wm. Hughes,
P.C., K.C., former Prime Minister of
Australia, viewed for so many years
the Anzac Day procession.
Other buildings had history
engraved on them. I saw the
names of “Andrew Fisher,
1913,” and “L. Macquarie, Esq.,
Governor, 1817.”
In the middle of a Sydney
street is a memorial to the first
church-service held in Australia;
February 3, 1788 ; Rev. Richard
John, 8.A., the chaplain. This
also marks the site of the first
church erected in Australia:
opened August 25, 1793 ;
burned down October 1, 1798 ;
again the Rev. Richard John,
8.A., being the first minister.
Perhaps of all, I found this
little piece of history the most
wonderful: near Sydney’s
Shrine of Remembrance, little
tablets half-hidden by bushes,
and bending low over one of
them I read this inscription:
The seeds from which these trees
and shrubs were grown were col-
lected at Anzac on Gallipoli Penin-
sula during 1934 by the Imperial
War Graves Commission and for-
warded to Sydney, where they were
germinated and planted in their
present position by the Council of
the City of Sydney on 14th Oct., 1935.
In Queensland I saw a cairn
of stone which commemorates
John Oxley, and another which
states that it is “to perpetuate
the memory of the explorer
Allan Cunningham, who
camped under these fig-trees in
the year 1828.”
On the front of Brisbane’s
G.P.O. is a recognition of the
heroism of “P.M.G.’s Dept,
civilian employees taken pris-
oners of war whilst on duty;
died in enemy hands. World
War 11, 1939-45.” Three names
are listed. (Rabaul is the place
I was told.)
In a glass-case on the wall of
a tiny parlor in the Brisbane
Mater Hospital is a “Royal Red
Cross, presented by Her Most
Gracious Majesty, Queen Vic-
toria, to Sister Mary Elizabeth
Hercy in recognition of her ser-
vices to the soldiers of the
British Army during the Crimean
War 1854-56” (100 years ago).
In the entrance to the A.M.P.
building in Queen-street, Bris-
bane, is this inscription:
SECOND WORLD WAR 1939-45.
In this building- General Douglas
MacArthur, Supreme Commander
Allied Forces, South-West Pacific,
established his headquarters on 21st
July, 1942, and here he formulated
the initial plans which led to final
victory over Japanese forces on 16th
August, 1946.
The forces under his command
comprised Navy, Army and Air Per-
sonnel of Gt. Britain, United States
of America, Australia, New Zealand
and Netherlands East Indies.
There is another memorial to
the Americans in Brisbane’s
Newstead Park: a monument
bearing the inscription:
THEY PASSED THIS WAY.
This monument was erected by
the people of Q’l’d in grateful
memory of the contribution made by
the people of the U.S. of America
to the defence of Australia during
the 1.939-45 War. Long may it stand
as a symbol of unity of the English-
speaking people in the cause of
freedom.
Along a creek in the Brisbane
Valley, just beside a bush one-
teacher school, is an inscribed
brass-plate on a fireplace:
In memory of the 2/10 Btn; 18 Bde.
A.1.F., who camped on this site, 1942.
I received my primary educa-
tion at that little bush school.
Where are those soldiers now?
Before the Fairfaxes
The following is portion of a
letter written from Sydney by
F. M. Stokes to his eldest son,
C. F. Stokes. It deals with the
beginnings of ‘‘The Sydney
Morning Herald,” which this
month passes to public owner-
ship in a £4-million company :
Graythorpe,
Feb. 3rd, 188 8.
My dear Charles,
With reference to the
other part of your note about
the “Herald,” I am not ambitious
to figure in print, but for your
information I will give a short
history.
When I arrived in Sydney I
went as bookkeeper to the
“Sydney Gazette” office, of
which the Rev. Ralph Mansfield
was manager and editor, having
for a fellow-clerk Ward Stephens,
who had been in the office some
time before me. Stephens was
intimate with William McGarvie,
a bookseller in George-street,
and the brother of the Rev. John
McGarvie, a Presbyterian
minister contemporary with Dr.
Lang. While in the office,
Stephens and William McGarvie
sent to England for a small
printing-plant which arrived in
Sydney some months after I was
there, but as neither of these
were printers, they did not know
what to do with it, and upon
talking over their dilemma with
me found out that I was a
practical printer, and as I had
saved some money, they agreed
to give me a joint interest upon
paying my quota of the cost,
which I gladly did, and we estab-
lished the office under the title
of Stephens, Stokes and
McGarvie, in Redman’s Court,
Lower George-street.
At this time there were three
newspapers in existence: the
“Sydney Gazette,” an official
Government organ conducted by
Mansfield; “The Australian,” a
violently written newspaper;
“The Monitor,” the proprietor of
which had been very harshly
treated by some officers of Gov-
ernment and was very violent.
The subscription to the “Sydney
Gazette” was £5 17s. per annum.
Soon after our office was estab-
lished we found that orders for
printing did not come in very
freely, and as politics were run-
ning very high, we thought there
was a good opening for an
independent, moderate and useful
commercial newspaper, and we
commenced the “Herald” as a
weekly paper; the Rev. John
McGarvie furnished the leading
articles, and as I had had con-
siderable experience with news-
papers, I was a sort of sub-
editor as well as printer. We
made a capital start. Mr.
McGarvie assisted us, and in the
selection of the motto:
‘‘Sworn to no master, of no sect
am I
In moderation placing all my
glory ;
While Tories call me Whig and
Whigs a Tory.”
The “Sydney Herald” was a
great success, and at the end of
six months the circulation was
more than all the others put
together!
Stephens and I bought out
William McGarvie by paying him
his portion back, which he
required for his stationery
business.
We then engaged as a writer
Mr. Edward O’Shannessy, but
the Rev. J. McGarvie continued
his editorials....
We then commenced a warfare
against the introductions of
prisoners, and thus enlisted the
sympathies and assistance of a
number of influential colonists,
and I believe the “Herald” was
instrumental in procuring the
cessation of transportation.
It would not be fair to mention
the names of the gentlemen who
backed-up the “Herald,” but we
gave great satisfaction, and the
“Herald” gained a name for
independence, moderation and
usefulness which has continued
throughout its career.
We found after a time that the
“Herald” was so popular that
we began to publish it twice a
week, and again soon after to
three times.
I then had some difference
with Mr. Stephens and sold him
my half-share and returned into
private life.
Some two years after, Stephens
desired to quit politics and go
squatting, and I then purchased
the whole affair and carried it in
my own name and recommenced
the busy life with splendid
prospects.
I had very favorable contracts
with the Government to do all
the job-printing with the “Gov-
ernment Gazette” for five years.
To enable me to fulfil my
contract, I was obliged to take
apprentices, as compositors were
hot to be had, when my calcula-
tions were all thwarted by a
strike amongst those men I had,
and although they received very
high wages, something like
£3 15s. average, they refused to
work unless I abandoned taking
apprentices, which I declined to
accede to, and I was placed in a
very awkward predicament.
Thfe Government threatened to
come upon my sureties, and I
had to carry on the “Herald”
for some time with only one
man and myself. I did so by
putting the advertisements in over
and over again free and only
setting a little fresh matter. I
then suggested to the Govern-
ment that as I could not get
compositors to do the work, they
should establish a Government
Printing Office and send to the
neighboring colonies and the
penal settlements for any printers,
which they did. I sold the Gov-
ernment the necessary material
and they had my overseer to
commence with. I could not get
men for my office, so I took a
number of educated young
fellows and taught them com-
posing, and they soon picked up
enough to enable me to continue
the publication of the “Herald,”
which I soon brought out as a
daily paper.
The worry and hard work of
all this I found telling upon my
health, and I felt myself unable
alone to contend with these
troubles, besides the difficulty of
obtaining literary talent, com-
mensurate with the growth of
the colony. I had the assistance
of the Rev. R. Mansfield, it is
true, and I had the services of
Mr. Charles Kemp, who had
been my law-reporter and who
also assisted in the sub-editorial
work. I also engaged the services
of an eminent professor, but I
found I could not contend against
the many calls, and as Mr.
Fairfax was a practical printer
and Mr. Charles Kemp was well
up in the literary management of
a newspaper, I sold the whole
affair to them at long credit upon
interest, and they have made the
“Herald” the magnificent news-
paper it is with the natural
growth of the colony.
Mr. John Fairfax was
librarian, and being a printer
gave me his assistance in com-
posing in his leisure time, and I
sent him cases of type to the
library and sent for the matter
when set-up.


Mow...
one ticket can
take you to
AMERICA
SlflWffiJj
AFRICA
n
s
widespread, so efficient, is the Qantas
organisation, that—if you wish—you can buy
one ticket for luxury travel to practically every
country in the free world . . . your itinerary
completed with one straight forward booking,
and all your stop-overs, connections and timing
problems completely solved.
Fly Qantas to the playgrounds and markets of
the world. See Qantas or your Travel Agent.
And enquire, too, about Tourist Service at
lower costs.
by
AUSTRALIA'S OWN OVERSEAS AIRLINE
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (inc. in Q’land)
in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
Q 8.82.26
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE TASMAN KENNEDY late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
JEAN KENNEDY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 602 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th day of June
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. E. R-
TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, of 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TO GRAHAM OLIVER MURRAY forj
merly of Perth W.A. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARJORIE JUNE
MURRAY has commenced 'proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court ot
Western Australia for Divorce subject to
the said Court’s discretion pursuant to
Section 27 of the Matrimonial Causes
and Personal Status Code 1948 on the
ground that you being separated under a
Court Order during a period of three
years at least immediately prior to the
commencement of such proceedings have
habitually failed to make payments of
maintenance as required by the terms of
the said Order. If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within forty (4<J
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion. In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. DATED this It th
day of April 1956. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. JAMES W. PRICKETT, 10
Sherwood Court, Perth, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Wash, Brisbane’s best
stayer in recent years, returned
to his best form at the Doomben
meeting last Saturday, winning
the principal event, the Autumn
Handicap (li mile), with 8.12.
He went out at 9 to 1 (four being
preferred in the betting), and had
a comfortable victory over
Clever Beau and former Sydney-
sider Grand Stream.
The Wash, who now should
make it interesting for Sydney
and Melbourne stayers over the
Brisbane midwinter carnivals,
had four wins at three-years,
three of them in select company
—in the Queensland Derby and
St. Leger, and the Brisbane Cup.
In the two-mil? Cup he carried
7.12, and defeated two New
Zealanders, Finito and Mil-
waukee 11.
Squander Bug (imp.), sire of the
brilliant two-year-old L’Aurea
(she ran record-time in winning
the Rosehill Maiden for fillies
on Saturday), won 11 races in
England. He has had few
starters to-date. L’Aurea has few
peers at Rosebery as a track-
worker. Her dam, like her sire,
is English-bred. She is Golden
Fingers, a Donatello II mare
from Golden Duchess by Gains-
borough. Golden Duchess is a
sister to Orwell, winner of
£29,251 in stakes, most of it at
two-years. Successes included
the Two Thousand Guineas.
L’Aurea’s trainer, Bill Tarran,
(Sad a welcome change of luck:
It was close on two years since
his previous city win. Apprentice
Kenny cracked it for his first
race-win. He had had 75 rides
prior to Saturday, so his first
win was a bit overdue. He dis-
played skill and judgment on
L’Aurea, though he showed one
fault which should be corrected
—he looked round at his closest
followers two or three times in
the final furlong. That was a
bit silly, even though L’Aurea
had the race in safe keeping.
Leading jockeys have found it
costly.
After a series of failures,
Marly Knowe won his first race,
the Rosehill Maiden for two-
year-old colts and geldings, at
the same meeting, downing
Grenoble, on which mount
Neville Sellwood seemed a trifle
overanxious to get to the lead.
Marly Knowe cost enough—
3200gns. A half-brother to
Humming Top, he is by Nilo
(imp.), and is one of Lionel
Israel’s Segenhoe breed. His
dam, Tops, is by Brazen (imp.)
from Highness by Silvius (imp.).
Rosehill Handicap winner
Viteren doesn’t appear in the
nominations for the Brisbane
Cup or Moreton Handicap, but
he will have his chance in the
A.J.C.’s £1250 Winter Stakes
(1| mile), main event of the
winter programme. The Rand-
wick meeting will be held on
Saturday, June 2 (on which open-
ing day the £lOOO June Stakes
will be the chief attraction), and
on Monday, June 4 (when the
Winter Stakes will be run). As
the best stayers will be in Bris-
bane that month, Viteren could
add to his stakemoney-winnings.
Viteren’s best win to date was
in the A.J.C. Summer Cup last
Boxing Day. He was then
spelled, resuming racing late in
February. For Saturday’s Rose-
hill Handicap he was backed
from 12 to 1 to 6’s. He came
from the rear of the field for an
easy win. Favorite for the race,
Ace Pilot had every chance, and
his third seemed a weak effort*;
he was in a winning position
from the start, but simply wasn’t
good enough.
Lightweight Sydney jockey
Neil Watterson, who had the
mount on Viteren, is a keen
track-rider at Rosebery, but he
hasn’t had much luck on metro-
politan courses—Viteren was his
first winner in 87 city engage-
ments.
Roughway ran one of the
fastest sprints recorded on the
training-tracks two days before
his engagement at Rosehill, and
the stable threw in for a solid
win. J. Thompson had the
mount, and he brought the geld-
ing along with a fast final-
furlong run, to win cleverly.
Roughway was the only winning
favorite in the seven events. His
provincial form had been con-
sistent, as he had won races at
Hawkesbury and Kembla in
recent weeks.
The horses-for-courses theory
worked out correctly with Red-
bank in the Rosehill Welter. It
was the Newcastle-trained geld-
ing’s third success a,t the S.T.C.
track. He’s trained by R. L.
Cashman.
A product of Glen Devon
stud, Werribee (Vic.), Carbon’s
Pet improved on prior minor
placings to win the Second
Yuroke Handicap for two-year-
olds at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day, but her owners, A. and H.
Silk, probably didn’t benefit
much, as she started at forlorn
odds. Darling, dam of Carbon’s
Pet, wasn’t much of a racing
proposition. She was got by Le
Grand Due (imp.) from Angel
by Double Remove (imp.). Fif-
teen-year-old Jan Wakkar, a
Dutch boy, had the mount. It
was only his second ride as an
apprentice.
* * *
Victorian reinsman W. J. Mc-
Kay took another classic when
Clan McKay showed them a
trim pair of heels in Friday
night’s final of the Victorian
Sapling Stakes. A two-year-old
or three-year-old race is hardly
a race now unless McKay is there
with a brilliant filly doing things
that fillies aren’t expected to do
when they’re up against the
cream of the colts and geldings.
Clan McKay ran the mile in
2.12| —a good run—and she won
on the bit by 24yds. Colts from
N.S.W., So Black and Park Raid,
filled the minor berths ; General
Scott again broke-up, and was
tailed-off.
An unhandsome but deceptive
goer, who races with outstretched
neck and tail, N.Z. three-year-
old Pointer is aptly named ; and
if his last few runs are any
pointer, he’ll go on to big things.
Odds-on in his engagement at
Harold Park last Friday night,
he didn’t leave the issue in doubt,
swishing to the front to give his
pursuers bellyaches from thereon
in. He won his Qualifying in fine
style, was then second to Argent
in his Derby-heat, but failed in
the Derby run-off after setting
the pace. Then he downed a
smart field at Menangle last Wed-
nesday, prior to his Friday win.
Trainer-driver Robinson will
probably hover about the Park
for a while now that his moke’s
in such fine fettle.
There have been a couple of
Qualifyings on the last two
Harold Park programmes, and
the good races and the quality
of the horses winning them point
strongly to a lot more such
events, for better racing. It
stands to reason that the good
young horses—and there are
stablefuls of them sifted
through the Qualifyings to take
their place in the faster-class
events will add interest to meet-
ings. Winners in the last few
weeks Pointer, King Ranji,
Kildare’s Star, Spring Scott—
would run the legs off some of
the nags whp two-step round the
course from week to week.
+ +
In the second round of the
V.FX., Fitzroy, at home,
defeated Essendon, 10.19-7.15.
In heavy conditions Fitzroy was
on top all through. Its weakness
has been lack of a reliable spear-
head, but Ongarello booted 6.3,
and may at last have found form.
Hawthorn, dragging to three-
quarter-time and well beaten in
the air and the rucks, kicked
7.5 in the last quarter, to down
Richmond, 16.10-12:13. Mel-
bourne had no trouble with
Carlton, which up to three-
quarter-time had kicked only one
goal, 12.18-6.11 ; Footscray
found St. Kilda tougher fare than
it had expected, but still quite
digestible, 10.14-7.4; Colling-
wood belted disappointing South,
12.18-7.11 ; and by administering
a thrashing to the tune of 16.14-
2.10, Geelong, always pretty well
indestructible at homi, booted
North down off the top perch to
which it had clambered by some-
what similarly thrashing St.
Kilda, and hoisted itself to the
top.
* * *
Gordon remains on top in Syd-
ney’s Rugby Union after white-
washing University, 19-0.
Gordon’s hard-working forwards
and strong-running backs had
just about all their own way
against last year’s premiers,
whose goal-kicker, Dowse, failed
in five attempts at goal. Rand-
wick, second on the table, easily
defeated Northern Suburbs,
which seems to have outlived
its first promise, 35-12; East-
wood beat Manly, 19-14, in a
fast, open game; Eastern
Suburbs and St. George drew, 6-
all; and Drummoyne beat Parra-
matta, 11-6. On Saturday it’s the
annual North Harbor v. South
Harbor (first and second teams
of each) at North Sydney; both
games promise good football.
Saturday’s round of Sydney
Rugby League saw more than a
normal number of “upsets.”
Canterbury, which hasn’t beaten
a top team for years, tossed
Manly-Warringah, while lowly
Parramatta just got there against
premiers South Sydney. In
somewhat lesser shocks, rebuilt,
“star - spangled” Wests was
beaten by Easts in a tryless
game, 8-6, while another rebuilt
side, Balmain, which has gone
for youth, not “names,” scored a
last-minute try to head New-
town.
“Selja”: Sydney “Sunday
Telegraph,” reporting Saturday’s
Eastwood-Manly Rugby Union
game at Eastwood “Miller
[international forward] and Pash-
ley did nothing to enhance their
reputations.” Miller could
hardly do anything to enhance
his ; he wasn’t playing.
“K.R.”: Some footballers are
putting-on Melba farewells. In
B. 2173/”56, following his state-
ment that he wouldn’t be playing
again, I wrote to that effect of
Rugby League Test-player Noel
Pidding—only to find that the
very next Saturday he stripped
again, and has continued to strip,
with Eastern Suburbs (Sydney).
Again, in B. 4/4/’56, Soccer Test-
player Ken Vairy’s announced
retirement through a dicky knee
was mentioned; but Vairy’s
“retirement” lasted only a fort-
night, and with the help of
special surgical-boots he’s now
playing again with Granville
(Sydney). Both are doing well,
too.
* * *
Australian gol f er Frank
Phillips, in the £1350 Spalding
golf-tournament at Moor Park
(Hertfordshire), played the last
nine holes in 31 strokes, to give
him a final round of 66 and fifth
prizemoney. British Ryder Cup
players Harry Weetman and
Cristy O’Connor shared the
major end of the stick, both
finishing with an aggregate of 276
for the 72 holes. Norman von
Nida finished six strokes behind
Phillips on 286.
“Tiger”: Here’s how number
of holes on a golf-course (B.
7/3/’56) really came about. In
the 18th century the number of
holes depencjed on the amount
of ground available and its con-
figuration. St. Andrew’s then
had 22 holes, out and home, the
out-holes being played back. In
1764 the first four holes were
altered to two, thus reducing the
number of holes played to 18.
And so it has been ever since, as
by that time St. Andrew’s had
established itself as the Home
of Golf.
* * *
That special bane of Aus-
tralian stoush artists cut eyebrow
beat Bert O’Keefe (9.0) in his
scrap with Barry Hatcher (8.13)
at Leichhardt. Up to when it
happened to him in round-six
Bert looked like flooring Barry,
who, instead, took such laurels
as the bout afforded on a t.k.o.


A Few Fads
CONTROL IN SCHOOLS
By EIGHTY-SEVEN
THROUGHOUT the Eng-
lish-speaking world there
is sorpe uneasiness about
the quality of the free
education to which the majority
of children must submit.
The American film “Black-
board Jungle,” the inquiry into
adolescent behavior in New
Zealand, and the statement on
the unhealthy effect of political
and administrative interference
with teachers in New South
Wales, made by the Teachers’
Union, are all evidences of some
definite anxiety.
Unfortunately, discussions on
this subject usually wander into
the nebulous field of abnormal
psychology, or into vague
reminiscences of “the good old
days,” or case-histories, of
individual malefactors, and no
progress is made with a problem
which concerns about 80 per
cent, of all children. The others
attend private schools, whose
long waiting-lists indicate at least
the confidence of parents who
pay fees, and who usually would
not dare to challenge in any way
the conduct of the headmaster of
their selected school.
There is no such reluctance to
complain and interfere by many
parents whose children attend
State schools. An inordinate
amount of the highly-paid time
of top administrators is occupied
with the serious judicial examina-
tion of events so trivial that if
they occurred at home they
would be accepted as the normal
pattern of human behavior.
Here are some hard facts
which should be placed promin-
ently before people interested in
education.
Firstly, pupils are compelled
to attend school by State law,
and the headmaster, as the execu-
tive officer of the Minister, is
responsible for their good
conduct, personal safety and
moral welfare, as well as their
school-instruction. For this
reason, he has some authority
over his pupils and teachers, so
any successful attack on this
authority will adversely affect the
control of his school, and the
final losers will be the pupils.
Secondly, in any district, all
the pupils of school-age will
attend the same school. The
future Prime Ministers rub
shoulders with the future Squizzy
Taylors, and the Taylors usually
show-up first. Therefore the
average mother inevitably
receives some unpleasant shocks
when the influence of children
she would exclude from her
own yard suddenly appears
in her carefully - sheltered
family. Very little can be
done about this, as the
troubles usually are of a social
nature, beyond the headmaster’s
sphere of influence. Appeals for
segregation can rarely be justi-
fied, and even then require
infinite tact.
Thirdly, the headmaster has
no control over boundaries,
buildings, school-furniture, staff
appointments and transfers,
hours of instruction, holidays
and the activities of pupils pro-
ceeding to and from school. His
job, briefly, is to accommodate
all children who appear at the
school door in such rooms as are
available, under the charge of
the staff appointed to his school.
Teachers, like any other sec-
tion of the community, are a
mixed lot, and while there is such
an acute staff-shortage every big
school has to carry an “odd
bod.” or two. Every State has
staff, accommodation and trans-
port problems,- and parents
should face the fact that in these
deficiencies the teacher is a
fellow - victim, and not a
deliberate trouble-maker.
A fruitful source of trouble is
the examination-system which
enchains the whole educational
activity of every State. Parents
expect, and receive, reports on
the educational progress and
standing of pupils in the first year
of school, and every term there-
after. All will readily accept the
kindly prevarication that the
reading of a six-year-old girl is
“excellent,” that her writing is
“very good indeed,” and that her
“arithmetic” (counting to 25 or
so) is also “excellent.” But many
complain bitterly in a few years’
time when the same subjects are
more accurately assessed as “fair
to very fair,” “average” and
“satisfactory.”
Reams have been written on
the examination-system, but a
most important fact, in my
opinion, concerning school-
reports is this: Any report is a
relative statement only, based
on the results of work for one
term, and should not be taken
as a final and absolute judgment
on a child’s ability.
It would be a surprise to most
parents to see how little notice
teachers themselves take of other
schools’ reports. Employers, as
a rule, won’t look at them at
all.
From time to time newspapers
comment on “the vast changes in
education in modern times.”
There is a big difference in the
kind of change that has occurred
in the schools and changes out-
side. Modern technology has
reduced enormously the burden
of the housewife, the factory-
worker and the farmer, but in
the school the main changes are
that many responsibilities have
been transferred from the home
to the school.
A modern headmaster copes
with Oslo lunches, free milk,
diphtheria-immunisation,medical
and dental clinics, the organisa-
tion of school-buses, bank-
money, and a multitude of small
but time-consuming tasks which
are not really educational in
nature at all, but are done in
schools to suit parental con-
venience.
Very few schools have a sec-
retary, so the mere weight of
paper-work alone becomes a
burden.
With the constant necessity to
raise money to purchase, in part,
the modern equipment so gaily
described by politicians, the
headmaster is usually dependent
upon Parents and Citizens’ Asso-
ciations. It requires the tact of
an Eisenhower, the patience of
Job and the skill of Blondin to
handle these gatherings. There
are those who genuinely wish to
help the school, who do most of
the work; the few who use the
association as a first-step in a
civic or Parliamentary career,
who do most of the talking ; and
the inevitable dart-throwers, full
of “points of order” and “private
information,” who have a lot of
fun.
Unfortunately, many of the
office-bearers in these organisa-
tions fail to understand that their
position carries no authority
whatever in the school, with
usually unhappy consequences.
It is often galling to sensitive
headmasters when a legitimate
request they have made through
official channels is refused, only
to be granted in response to *a
request from the committee of
the P. and C. Association.
The headmaster is in a posi-
tion where some trouble is
inevitable, and, because he is in
charge, he has to deal with it.
In big schools, with hundreds
of pupils, there are cases of
stealing, lying, bullying and
truancy; clothing, books and
money disappear ; children miss
trams and catch vermin ; some
break limbs, and others break
windows ; and all of these, sooner
or later, are referred to the head-
master for action.
For some—the bullies, the
immoral, the defiant and the
thieves—punishment should be
immediate, certain and just.
Law-abiding children at school
are entitled to the protection of
the authority, which compels
their attendance. This usually
means the cane, and, if the issue
is dodged, the offence will be
continually repeated until school-
discipline as a whole is gone.
It is often in such cases that
complaints are taken to higher
authority by parents whose only
motive is to “put that teacher
in his place.” A series of such
complaints, especially if backed
by an irresponsible Parliament-
arian whose sole concern is the
preservation of a slender electoral
majority, will inevitably put the
teacher in a position where, if
he performs his duties, he is in
trouble, and if he doesn’t, his
school is in trouble.
The justice of the treatment
meted-out to a school-offender
should be determined by evi-
dence at school, and not by the
amount of political influence, an
obviously biased party can exert.
People who believe that all
children can be successfully con-
trolled at all times by moral per-
suasion are simply victims of
self-hypnosis. The only schools
where the cane need never be
used are those where the power
of expulsion is held by the head-
master. It is on this one factor
that the whole fabric of private-
school education ultimately
rests—they have the power of
rejection, and use it.
The State-school headmaster,
on the other hand, has to deal
adequately with the delinquent
—and retain him in the school.
A parent who succeeds, with
the aid of political or adminis-
trative support, in humiliating a
teacher over a trivial matter wins
only a Pyrrhic victory. An
atmosphere of wariness develops
in all who have that parent’s child
to manage, and the parent will
find future dealings handled with
the careful and reticent politer
ness reserved for dangerous
antagonists. There are regula-
tions governing the conduct of
schools, and, where this child is
concerned, the letter of the
regulations will be strictly
observed.
In matters where no regula-
tions exist, no risks will be taken,
If any question involving the
teacher’s authority arises again,
the teacher, in self-defence, will,
if possible, hand-over to the
police, the Child Welfare people,
or the Health Department any
matters they could deal with,
rather than risk another depart-
mental inquiry by disposing of
the matter quietly at school.
It is a sorry business, irritating
for the parent, degrading for the
teacher, and devastating in its
effect upon the child, whose con-
fidence in both home and school
is shattered. It is from such
children that the ranks of the
juvenile delinquents are filled,
What procedure, then, should
be adopted by the mother (it is
usually the mother) of a school-
child when, for some apparently
good reason, she is dissatisfied, or
even alarmed, over her child’s
experiences at school?
Remember that no law-court
in Australia will accept the un-
supported word of a child: This
does not mean that your child is
a deliberate and calculating liar,
but often his account of what
happened at school will resemble
th at °f his father about what
happened after work, when he
met those three good chaps from
his old battalion.
There will be discreet ornis-
sions, a careful shift of emphasis
from the crux of the matter to
some minor detail, and possibly
an ingratiating display of per-
sonal affection. Supporting evi-
dence from his little playmate
next-door is just as reliable as
that of his fathers old mates,
in similar circumstances,
The best move is to go to the
headmaster of the school and
ask in a reasonable way tor the
exact information about the
incident. If s ° me class-teacher
has overstepped the mark, the
head-teacher can deal with it on
a sensible basis. If the child has
magnified or misreported a trivial
incident, no harm can come to
anyone.
It is usually a shock to most
mothers who find that they have
been misled by their own
children, but the general ettect
is beneficial the child does not
try it again, and the mothers
ideas rest on a sounder basis, it
the case is so grave that higher
authority must be invoked, the
mother’s visit to school will
strengthen her case,
Finally, all should realise that
the school is the first stage in
the journey from babyhood to
life as an adult. In the long run,
most children leave home
entirely, and their future
happiness depends to an amazing
extent upon the attitudes and
habits they have acquired in
schools. A contempt for
authority in school can become
a contempt for authority in the
community, with results that ? are
painfully evident in Australia
today.
"Agnes" and Her '18 Auntie
THE BIG BLOW
By SAN Q.
THE weather men called
it “Agnes.” Other men,
other names. But old
hands in North Queens-
land called it simply a “blow.”
It beat the anniversary of its
1918 predecessor by four days.
March 10, 1918, is a day to
remember; certainly the pass-
ing of 38 years has failed to
erase the vividness of that ex-
perience from the minds of
people who lived in the Babinda
and Innisfail districts.
At Babinda on that March 10,
the wind reached gale-force at
about 10 a.m. and its greatest
fury between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m.
About 5 p.m. the first buildings
began to go: the barnlike
structures the School of Arts
and the three churches. Families
living in shanties moved out
before dark, some to friends’
houses, others into the sugar-
mill. These latter were lucky.
Meanwhile, families in the
more substantial buildings made
preparations. Warm clothing
on the children, crockery
packed away, photos and pic-
tures removed from the walls,
mirrors detached and wrapped
in sheets and blankets, side-
boards and wardrobes laid flat
on the floor, casements and
windows nailed-down, and
doors nailed-up.
Wfith the dusk and rising
tempo of the wind commenced
the flying galvanised-iron roof-
ing and roof-timbers ; then the
collapse of houses. Some with
the walls fallen inwards ; others
blown off their stumps; some
to rest on their sides; others
to capsize, with floors facing
skywards. One house to have
a thousand-gallon tank of water
deposited into its roofless front
room. A string of railway-
carriages, coupled, were blown
on to their sides, later to serve
in that position as a temporary
residence for families for some
days.
The homeless in that T 8
“blow” who could not reach
shelter in other homes or at
the mill lay flat on the ground,
forced into that position by
ferocity of the wind; or they
crouched behind huge tree-
stumps, or sheltered behind the
railway-embankment.
A shift in direction of the
wind between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m.
completed the havoc. The most
sturdily built structures gave
way. More families worked
their way to the mill. Once
there the children were bedded-
down on the concrete-and-brick
floor on jute sugar-sacks;
kiddies too dazed to whimper ;
bedraggled mothers gathered
into shocked groups. Men
formed parties to find and assist
families still out in it.
Daylight revealed the extent
of devastation. All but a hand-
ful of houses razed; the shop-
ping-centre completely collapsed;
the school twisted on its stumps;
severe damage to the mill; the
cane laid flat; grasses torn out
by the roots; wide tracks
through the rain-forests, with
giant tree-roots reared higher
than tree-heads; galvanised-
iron sheets wrapped around tree-
trunks or driven deep into the
ground.
At first light Chinese began
gathering iron and timber to re-
build their sh op s. They
recovered, in fact, far more than
the “blow” had taken.
From under collapsed walls,
shopkeepers recovered tinned-
foods and clothing, and issued
it to the no\y-homeless. The
displaced school became the
food-issue point. Clothing
began to arrive from neighbor-
ing towns; needy families
received cash-donations from a
quickly-raised fund; children
were evacuated to relatives in
near-by towns; and parents
started on the heart-breaking
task of cleaning-up the wreck-
age to recover materials with
which to . construct temporary
homes.
In an incredibly short time
the township was rebuilt . . *.
but with innovations. Residents
living on the hillside dug tunnels
as cyclone-shelters—forerunners
of the air-raid shelters —and
houses were lashed-down with
wire-ropes stretching over the
rooftops and fastened to posts
sunk deep into the ground.
AFTER an absence of many
years, I was back home in
Babinda when “Agnes” struck.
During the early morning of
Tuesday, March 6, the wind
came in gusts of increasing
intensity. By 7 a.m. the tele-
phone-posts reeled drunkenly ;
o Continued on page 30)


m
llllilll
m
w&pm
mm
i- »»,
r* ' . i
m
sMlil
v ■■
WM
■pill
HR
M
ii wMmm
■■■■■ ■.■:■
Nuffield Universal
Tractor, equipped with
hydraulically operated
Horndraulic front-end
loader and hay sweep,
shown stacking hay.
Such jobs become easy
work when you use
the Nuffield Tractor
and its many and
varied "approved*
after matched
Implements.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS? \
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 11 x 36 rear and
6.00 x 19 front tyres, costs only
£968 (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
includes the following standard equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt
pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter
and horn, headlight, agricultural rear light, tail
and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 13.50 x 24R, 6.00 x
16F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x
18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Piease send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and ‘Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS
Place X in this square if for school project.
C 8
L ->J
*o lo* ■
BMC
'i ■
NT42.32
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere j
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. ITS.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET SPORT
/"OVERSEAS comment on the
Soviet’s preparations for the
Olympic Games at Melbourne
this year suggests that the
Russians are going to be more
than fair-dinkum in their efforts
to take home the title.
One of the latest observers to
suggest that the Games have
more than a sporting significance
for the Soviet is John N. Wash-
burn, former instructor in
Russian Language and Literature
at Dartmouth and a snecialist in
the history of the Olympic
Games. Writing in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs” he
notes that before World War II
the Commynist party in Soviet
Russia utilised physical-culture
and sport primarily to build the
defence-potential and
facilitate other domestic pur-
poses ; but in the past 10 years
these have played an incieasingly
important role in furthering the
foreign-policy objectives set forth
by the Central Committee of the
party :
“At the end of 1946 the
U.S.S.R. was represented in only
two international athletic bodies,
but between 1946 and 1955 it
joined 25 more. Official recogni-
tion of the Soviet Olympic Com-
mittee in May, 1951, made it
possible for the U.S.S.R. to par-
ticipate in the 1952 Olympic
Games. In 1955 Moscow per-
mitted the international ex-
change of athletic delegations
between the Soviet Union and
the outside world to reach its
post-war- peak, with 187 foreign
athletic teams going to the
U.S.S.R. to play against Soviet
teams while 162 Soviet athletic
teams went abroad to compete.
“The Government has sought
both to provide maximum
competitive experience for Soviet
athletic teams in preparation for
the 1956 Olympic Games and to
increase the number of teams
dispatched to distant lands for
political purposes. An example
is the ‘Lokomotiv’ Soccer-team
that travelled to Indonesia,
Burma and India. It played
against an Indian team in Cal-
cutta on December 1, the day
after the huge mass-meeting held
there in honor of the touring
Soviet leaders, Bulganin and
Khrushchev.
“ ‘All-Union Day of the
Physical-Culturists,’ which falls
on a Sunday in either July or
August, is celebrated with more
and more fanfare and publicity
each year. Considerable excite-
ment accompanied the announce-
ment that a tremendous drive
would be launched to discover
new athletic talent in rural Russia
by means of a series of local
and regional competitions in
rural areas, followed by rural-
urban competitions in major
cities and towns.
“The winners in these competi-
tions will qualify for the so-
called ‘Spartakiad of- the Peoples
of the U.S.S.R.,’ a mass pre-
Olympic tryout scheduled for
July and August of 1956 in a
gigantic new stadium now under
construction on the outskirts of
Moscow. There will be competi-
tions in 21 sports in which nearly
10,000 picked athletes represent-
ing all the Union Republics of
the U.S.S.R. will be entered.
“A striking feature of t the post-
war expansion-programme in
physical-culture was the cash-
bonus system benefiting athletes
who turned-in record-breaking
performances and who were
placed first, second or third in
U.S.S.R. championships in
individual sports. The first part
of ‘Pravda’s’ announcement
(October 22, 1945) giving details
of the new. bonus-system read
as follows:
“ ‘ln order to stimulate the
further growth of athletic pro-
ficiency the Council of People’s
Commissars of the U.S.S.R. has
given permission to the All-
Union Committee on Physical
Culture and Sport to give-out
cash-awards for outstanding per-
formances. Thus, for example,
an award ranging from 15,000
to 25,000 roubles will be given
for establishing a U.S.S.R. record
that surpasses the world record,
and from 5000 to 15,000 roubles
will be given for establishing a
U.S.S.R. record.’
“This cash-bonus system, one
of the least subtle features* of
Soviet professionalism or ‘State
amateurism,’ was put on a clan-
destine basis long before the
U.S.S.R. submitted its official
application for admission to the
International Olympic Com-
mittee. Although at the meeting
of the International Olympic
Committee held in Vienna early
in May, 1951, the executive com-
mittee questioned the amateur
status of Soviet athletes, the
Russian delegates replied that
this practice had been discon-
tinued and that henceforth the
U.S.S.R. would abide by inter-
national amateur standards. The
1.0. C., taking the Russians at
their word, promptly voted 31
to 0, with three members abstain-
ing, for the admission of the
Soviet Olympic Committee.
“During a visit to Moscow in
the summer of 1954, Mr. Avery
Brundage, then president of the
International Olympic Com-
London “Daily Mail"
TONGUE-TIED LION
mittee, again broached the sub-
ject of the genuineness of Soviet
amateurism. N. Romanov,
chairman of the All-Union Com-
mittee on Physical Culture and
Sport, assured him his suspicions
were groundless.
“Soviet athletes participated
in Olympic competition for the
first time at the 1952 Games in
Helsinki. Although they made a
very creditable showing, their
failure to win the unofficial team-
title caused Moscow to manipu-
late mass-media behind the Iron
Curtain in such a way as to
create the impression that the
Soviet athletes had triumphed
over all.
“The fiction became a reality at
the Seventh Winter Olympics
held" this year in Italy. The spec-
tacular success of the Russians
there will heighten interest in the
and field events of the
Sixteenth Olympiad, to be held
in Melbourne from November
22 to December 8. Although
competition is between in-
dividuals, the Soviet Union’s
fanatical desire for national
supremacy on the athletic field
has served to place undue
emphasis on team-scores. We
may be certain that a Soviet
victory at Melbourne this year
would be counted a major
triumph in the Cold War.”
The British
Commonwealth
Sir Winston Churchill’s
declaration that he had not
become First Minister of the
Crown to preside over the
liquidation of the British Empire
may sound like famous last
words at this stage of history,
but, as London “Economist”
notes, the shrinking periphery of
Britain’s old Imperial interests
is “part, of a larger world-wide
transformation” :
“As the Empire shrinks the
Commonwealth expands. The
need is not for lamentation but
for honest appraisal of the
character and survival-value of
the expanding Commonwealth
and of Britain’s place and
interest in it.
“When the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers meet again in
June they ought to do more than
arrange for an extra leaf to be
put in the Cabinet-table as
required. The Commonwealth
is about to undergo its biggest
change since India’s determina-
tion to become a republic was
reconciled with its wish to stay in
the club.
“Nobody cares to define the
Commonwealth too closely.
Something of its continuing
value, it can be claimed, is
shown precisely by the efforts
the Prime Ministers make, for
all their diverse preoccupations
and differing political timetables,
to meet in person as often as
they do. The Commonwealth
works, it is said, and that is
enough. But as a whole series of
colonies on the verge of inde-
pendence get ready to knock on
the door, it is not inappropriate
to ask what it now works
towards.
“The new members will find
it easier to grasp what it is not
than what it is. It is not an
alliance, even of the loosest
kind ; to use words used recently
in the Pakistan Parliament, it
does not in any way abridge their
independence or curtail theft
liberty to have free foreign
policies of their own. They can
espouse policies that bring them
into conflict with other members
to the verge of war; nobody yet
knows whether even going to war
with another member requires
resignation. But these contra-
dictions form the only condi-
tions in which Canada, India or
Pakistan will stay in the Com-
monwealth, or in which newly-
emancipated colonies will join it.
“What then,” the “Economist”
asks, “is the worth of so nega-
tive an association? For Britain,
the Commonwealth is a gentle
let-down, a featherbed of fine
phrases and outward forms, to
ease the psychological impact of
the loss —now approaching its
last phase of a powerful
Empire. Yet the phrases and the
forms can still symbolise some-
thing positive and valuable that
can persist.
“The new way of parting


Going to Europe?
If you are, there is an enormous amount for you to see.
Remember that Tours, Cruises, Hotels, Air, Sea and Rail
Passages may be fully booked when you arrive, so ACT
NOW and contact us for all your European Travel Require-
ments
WE CAN BOOK YOU BY AIR, SEA, RAIL OR COACH.
YUILLS, LIMITED
(Cables Yataghan. 'Phone London Wall 2649),
OCEAN HOUSE, 3 OLD BROAD STREET, E.C.2,
“Opposite the London Stock Exchange.”
Agents for
Bergen Line, Bowermans, C.1.T., Contours, Fourways,
Friendships, Imperial Motorways, Motorways, See
Spain, W.T.A., Wayfarers, and all other operators.
Full particulars and brochures available IN SYDNEY
from—
SWIRE & YUILL PTY., LTD.
6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE BU 1712-7.
THE'ALL-BRITISH
n— nf«— w
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
r
2S
Prices frorr
29/6 to 95/-
Gtves C haracter
to your V'riting
• oflioi *Oll ‘oo v mnit aimnoo
NOTHING EQUALS
M WARHUVS AMAYFHG EFFICIENCY 1
warmray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced. <
m
A
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super
De luxe
+ Larger Capacity —Over
8,000 cn. ft
Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
+ Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM HEATER
OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
mm m m
WARMRAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
friends has prolonged Britain’s
influence in a way Holland might
envy and France may soon sadly
miss. It has given a short respite
in which the adjustment can be
made to the real loss of power,
the consequences of which
emerge nakedly from time to
time, as, for example, at Abadan.
It has preserved the friendship of
former dependencies. And it has
kept up Britain’s stock in
America, though at times the
consequences of Britain’s real
loss of power have dismayed
Americans.
“For the older Dominions the
Commonwealth has eased a new
relationship into being. It can
still mean Empire, home and the
Crown to Australasians even as
realities compel them to enter
pacts like Anzus. The same over-
tones ease Canada’s inter-com-
munal problems, strengthen her
sense of identity against the
American neighbor, give her a
springboard into Europe and
indeed Asia. It may not even be
fanciful to foresee South Africa
clinging to the Crown as the
time of reaping the whirlwind
moves nearer.
“For the Asian countries the
Commonwealth has provided two
things—a fund of practical
advice on how to be sovereign
and influential in the comity of
nations, and a springboard to the
Western Hemisphere. These are
also the advantages of Common-
wealth membership to the
colonies (there are some in
Burma and the Sudan who miss
them). When independent, they
will at first be weak, undefended,
underdeveloped and inexperi-
enced States, though formally
sovereign.
“Under Commonwealth aegis
they will be helped to play a
more effective part as sovereign
States than would otherwise be
possible; they will have ready-
made backing for their diplo-
macy and their negotiations in
international conferences, politi-
cal or economic; there is a
Commonwealth associate in
every clime.
“But is not all this of temp-
orary importance? If the Com-
monwelath association is to wax
not wane in the next chapter but
one, new ties must take the place
of the Old Boys’ Club.
“The common interests of the
Commonwealth, if it is to hold
together and thrive, will be
found in every field: economic,
strategic, diplomatic and political.
But first for survival is the need
for its races to live together. The
Commonw.ealth, in fact, has
become a multiracial association.
It is predominantly Euro-Asian
in nature, but it will become
Euro-Afro-Asian, Its problems
are the world’s; its dissolution
would be the world’s loss.
“The growing points of the
new association of equals will be
found in its uniqueness in having
a window on every part of the
world. The task is to exert this
cross-cut in human experience.
New voices are now heard at the
door ; perhaps they will bring in
with them new ideas about the
way the Commonwealth should
face its future.”
Japanese Shipbuilding
Commenting in London
“Financial Times” on the latest
shipbuilding figures from Japan,
Peter Duff, editor of “The Ship-
ping World,” sees them as
dispelling “any illusions we may
have that British shipbuilders are
still the world’s leading builders
of ships, for export”:
“Although, according to
Lloyd’s Register of Shipping,
757,599 tons gross of the mer-
chant-ships under construction in
the United Kingdom at the end
of 1955 were for export (34 per
cent, of the total), the corre-
sponding figure for Japan was
579,060 tons (69.6 per cent.).
“In January the Shipbuilding
Conference announced that
orders booked by British ship-
yards in 1955 totalled 2,328,000
tons gross, the highest annual
total since 1951. These orders
were predominantly for British
account; and in fact, of the total
order-book at that date —
5,287,000 tons gross only
1,110,000 tons were for foreign
owners.
“Japanese shipyards, however,
in the 11 months to February,
1956, have booked orders from
foreign shipowners alone
amounting to 2,093,585 tons
gross. In terms of value at
current prices, the total U.K.
order-book (of which about one-
fifth is for export) amounts to
some £665 million. The export-
orders received by Japan in the
last 11 months alone are valued
at nearly $5OO million.
“What is the main cause of this
sudden influx of foreign orders
into Japan? It is certainly not
price alone, for Japanese quota-
tions are generally higher than
European or British (although
these are on a sliding-scale basis),
and have in any event increased
by some 20 per cent, since last
October. Towards the end of the
year prices for dry-cargo vessels
of about 11,000 tons deadweight
built in Japan have been esti-
mated at about £915,000, com-
pared with about £885,000 in the
United Kingdom and Scandi-
navia and about £900,000 in
Germany.
“The principal attraction is
early delivery, a factor which
has been instrumental in divert-
ing. most foreign orders, for
dry-cargo ships particularly,
from British to overseas yards
in the last twelve months. Many
British orders, too, have gone
to foreign yards for the same
reason.
“The consequence is, of
course, that many foreign yards
are now also reaching satura-
tion-point so far as date of
delivery is concerned ; and the
same is beginning to apply even
in Japan. Even so, Japanese
yards were able to guarantee
delivery before the end of 1958
of several dry-cargo ships
ordered in February this year.”
Thermal Barrier
Commenting on the new air-
speed record set by Britain’s
Fairey Delta 2, London “Finan-
cial Times” notes that “it is still
a far, far cry from carrying
passengers or fighting at such
speeds”:
“Some 12,000 horsepower is
required to propel this tiny aero-
plane—the spah is only 26ft. and
the cockpit fits the pilot so tightly
that he cannot wear a pressure-
suit —at 1100 m.p.h.
“In the few minutes required
to accelerate from Mach 1 (660
m.p.h. in the stratosphere) to 1.7,
and to hold that speed for the
half-minute of the actual run,
air-friction over the surface of
the FD-2 heated it from-60°C.
to +5O°C. That is 122°F., which
is uncomfortably hot and is quite
definitely the brink of the
thermal barrier; if the outside
air-temperature had just been
freezing the skin-temperature
would have been above boiling-
point.”
German Trade-drive
Another formidable com-
petitor for the markets of Asia
and the Near East, as noted by
Raymond'Loir in London “Con-
temporary Review” and by the
Bonn correspondent of London
“Spectator”:
“Taking advantage of the
recent Germano-Arab friend-
ship,” Loir comments, “the
Germans have today resumed
their march to the East. Every-
thing is being tried on a large
scale to permit the Germans to
conquer the Near East, both
economically and culturally.
German diplomats are doing
their best to give confidence to
the Arabs. Arab graduates of
German universities are doing
their utmost to create an atmo-
sphere favorable to the German
invasion.
“Political refugees from the
English and the French before
the war who found help and
protection with Hitler have not
delayed to offer their collabora-
tion to the German diplomats
in their efforts to sign agree-
ments with all the Arab
countries. German goods have
reappeared everywhere, causing
serious competition to English,
American and French mer-
chandise. German businessmen
have even succeeded in starting
commerce and works in Kuwait,
a British Protectorate. German
university-missions are coming
East once more, as are the finan-
ciers, the businessmen, and the
archaeologists. And the Germans
are everywhere being welcomed
as friends.”
To which “The Spectator's”
correspondent adds that “the
time is not far off, in fact, when
Bonn will have to be consulted
ort subjects like the Arab-Israeli
dispute, the future of Middle
East oil, the Baghdad Pact, or
the Colombo Plan.
“The truth is that Western
Germany is rapidly growing to
the stature of a great Power, and
the next 12 months, with the
accession of the Saar and the
development of a national Army,
will bring this home to the rest
of the world. When the Saar
rejoins Germany, as it clearly
will very soon, Western Germany
will pass France and will be
challenging Britain, at any rate
in the material field, for the posi-
tion of third-man to the U.S. and
the U.S.S.R.
“She will then have a popula-
tion of 51 million, an annual
steel-production of some 28-
million tons and an output of
coal of 150-million tons. France,
with 43-million inhabitants, 12-
million tons of steel and. 55-
million tons of coal, will drop
right, out of the running and
her deceleration will be accentu-
ated by the loss of Tunisia,
Morocco and perhaps even
Algeria.
“In 1955 Western Germany
became the world’s biggest com-
mercial exporter of capital goods.
And Asia’s industrial revolution
is just beginning.
“Herr Krupp and his col-
leagues from the Ruhr see
export-credits as the key to the
situation. Both the Ruhr and the
Bonn Government agree that
direct State-aid to Asian
countries only provokes, with the
passage of time, a nationalist
irritation; by limiting State-
support to the banking-stage of
the operation Soviet State-com-
petition can be met without the
West sacrificing its free-economy
principles.
“This is the new D-Mark
diplomacy. Krupps’ have already
put it into practice in India,
where they are .building the
Rourkela steelworks. The recipe
is simple and painless: Germany
loans experts to draft and design,
trains Indian engineers in the
Ruhr, delivers equipment on low-
interest credit-basis with part-
payment in the form of German
ownership of up to 30 per cent,
of the final plant; ultimate
repayment of this capital invest-
ment is made over 10 to 15 years
when the plant is in full produc-
tion, and by that time the Indian
managers are ready to take over.
“At no time is there a long-
term investment to offend Asian
susceptibilities. Germany believes
that rolling-mills, not defence-
pacts, are the way to win the
heart of Asia.”


Fatih in the
%
Future
■7
\
*
Whenever a fellow-Australian inclines to
uncertainty about the future remind him of the
Faithful ones who helped us to our inheritance in
the past.
Remind him of Ferdinand Magellan. It was
that great navigator who, under the banner of God
and in the name of the Spanish Emperor, unlocked
the Pacific Ocean.
From Cape Horn to the Philippines he rode
the night storms and weathered the landless days
in puny craft for 15 weeks. All in fulfilment of an
idea; a bold idea from which our own fortune has
flowered.
It was the spice trade, fostered in rivalry
between the great European Powers, that sent the
voyagers forth to seek it in lands beyond Arabia
and India.
But it was Magellan’s religious attachment to
a Belief that brought him to find the south-eastern
key to the fabled Ocean at the Strait which bears
his name.
He entered the Pacific on November 28, 1520,
and died at Mactan, in the Philippines, on April
27, 1521 —exactly as Cook was to die at Hawaii
258 years later; on a beach at the hands of hostile
natives.
Magellan was the first man to circumnavigate
the world, for earlier he had sailed east to the
Indies, around Africa in the service of Portugal.
That he was assailed in his lifetime, was made
the butt of jealousies and intrigues even by some
who sailed with him, only heightens his achievement
in venturing beyond the fringes of the Known.
It seems the navigations of Man will never
cease. Now, when all the seas are charted and the
lands are mapped, aspiration turns to the conquest
of outer space.
And this is the moral I see in the Magellan
story, for Australians blessed with a rich and
waiting corner of the New World he opened:
Transcending the physical and material triumphs
of every age is the spiritual drive that makes them
possible.
Qe'ittx,
¥
Missing Friend
GORDON HENRY PRESTON, son of
REUBEN BELL PRESTON, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED), 33/39 Hunter
Street, Sydney. (Reference J.S.).
111 H 47
Regd.
ummi
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
i* n. DEmU! ins.] Liu*
1092 MT ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA
ignorant of the most elemen-
tary mining principles and whose
chief aim is to deflect some of
this surplus cash (preferably
tax-free) directly into their own
pockets with the minimum of
expense and effort.
A prospecting venture can
scarcely be called a fair gamble
when half the money raised is
paid out for vendor’s considera-
tions, commissions, etc., without
financing any useful work, whilst
the remainder is spent on the
exploration of indifferent
prospects which contain more
salesmanship than mineral.
In this regard our own record
of speculative prospecting has
been none too good. In the last
three years the Australian public
subscribed tens of millions to
oil and uranium companies,
Most of this money has been
spent without any new mineral
discoveries of ‘ real economic
importance.
Nothing kills public enthu-
siasm more quickly than a boom
which fails to deliver the goods.
Post-boom apathy may last for
months or even years, during
which time it is extremely diffi-
cult to raise money for even the
most respectable of mining enter-
prises. We can surely be
excused for wondering just how
much risk-capital is needed to
find an ore-deposit, let alone
develop it. It seems that much
of our speculative capital would
more aptly be described as
“sucker”-capital.
Although many of the share-
holders in speculative concerns
are gamblers glad to have the
opportunity of playing the mar-
ket, a good deal of the money
subscribed comes from people
seeking a genuine investment
which will return their capital—
perhaps a lifetime’s savings—
with interest. Too often, this
latter class of investor is misled
by overoptimistic prospectuses,
progress-reports, etc., and, be-
lieving his venture has a pros-
perous future, retains his shares
To the bitter end.
Tighter Government control
over new mining-floats and
greater discrimination on the
part of the public would do much
to raise the standards of Aus-
tralian mine-search. This could
be accomplished through a pro-
perly constituted board of top-
ranking mining-engineers. Under
this plan, the promoters of
every new mining enterprise
would be required by law to sub-
mit their proposals to the board,
which would then examine and
report on the prospects and the
financial structure of the new
company. The board’s report
would be published in the pros-
pectus in full, whilst the cost of
the examination would fairly be
shared by the Government and
the promoters as an item in the
preliminary expense of forming
the company.
Less feasible, though highly
desirable, would be legislation
preventing large initial payments,
either in cash or shares, for a
property before it has been
properly investigated. Further,
vendors’ shares should be non-
negotiable for at least two years.
Finally, I would like to men-
tion the low-risk form of pros-
pecting company in which the
emphasis is on amortisation
rather than gambling. Although
it is doubtful if any exist at
present, there is real opportunity
for a company of this sort. Such
an organisation would have a
sound directorate, a small but
competent staff, and would be
moderately capitalised. The
activities of the company would
necessarily be confined to
accessible, low-cost regions. It
would concentrate on those de-
posits having relatively simple
geology and tending to occur in
readily - measurable accumula-
tions with some show of con-
tinuity and tonnage. High-risk
prospects like oil, uranium and
deeply-buried deposits would be
avoided.
Prospecting operations would
be carefully planned and expen-
diture closely controlled. There
w.ould be no irresponsible
squandering of shareholders’
funds on unwarranted investi-
gations or heavy vendors’
considerations for unproven
prospects. The company
would dispose of its pro-
perties to those many estab-
lishea organisations which prefer
to pay a good price for a proven
deposit rather than do their own
prospecting. Alternatively, the
company could promote its own
exploitation - companies to
operate new finds. As a profit-
able sideline the company could
also operate a technical service
by carrying-out or supervising
investigations for others. The
promotion of a company of this
calibre would be a welcome
change and an attractive invest-
ment for those seeking a legiti-
mate tax-free income,
{To be continued)
power-lines were down; the
town was more isolated than
Heard Island.
Until lunch-time we were not
unduly concerned: a few sheets
of loose iron wrenched from the
outbuildings; the occasional
crash of falling limbs and trees;
the rattle of loosening roofs.
After lunch my sister packed
her china —so had her mother on
March 10, 1918. The menfolk
nailed-down windows, and
nailed-up doors.
My schoolboy nephew, who
has an interest in such things,
announced that the post-office
barograph was down to 28.4.
The wind-velocity was rising
now. The railway-platform lost
its roof; more trees crashed;
more iron was noticed in flight
—nothing to be alarmed about.
By lamplight we had a hot
meal cooked on a primus.
The Greek family next-door
lost their roof and moved in
with us for shelter. About 8
p.m. we went to bed, but re-
mained dressed —just in case.
As a ship rides out a storm,
so do some timber houses sway,
give, and resettle to ride out a
“blow”: which is exactly what
our place did.
By daylight the wind had
abated. Some houses had lost
their roofs; power-lines and
telephone-wires were a tangled
mess; the picture-hall had col-
lapsed ; the bakery was not
working; and all communica-
tion, of course, had ceased.
However, by nightfall bread
was on sale; there were no
homeless families, nor people in
need of personal relief. Babinda-
ites were infinitely better off
than they had been in 1918...
But a blight lay on the land.
Gone were the birds, which the
day before had played the air-
currents, and with rigid wings
had headed into the wind to
ride out the “blow.” Banana-
plants were flattened, their crop
ruined. Citrus-fruit littered the
ground. Native trees were torn
to shreds, their trunks gaunt and
naked. Domestic trees and
plants in the town had been
ripped out.
And the “blow” dealt cruelly
with the canefields. Little rain
fell before or during the visita-
tion, so that the soil remained
hard and resisting. This meant
that the cane did not flatten,
but snapped-off. Pindar, the
wonder cane of poor and de-
pleted soils, is very brittle, and
the heads snapped as though
chopped through with a cane-
knife.
Production is likely to be only
a token ; yes, it will be a lean
year.
But when they hear it said
that “this cyclone was worse
than the 1918” old-timers smile.
“Well,” they say, “it was a blow
—we must admit that. But no
way nearly as bad as the ‘big’
blow.”
A BROKEN BALLAD
Once it was the human heart,
the terrors of the mind:
and he, the hermit, knew them
well,
and he would often sit and tell
to those who sat around, apart,
that they must wait and see and
find.
He talked to snails, toads and
weeds;
his meanings tender, brutal,
mild:
our paradise of filth and atone,
the cancer that our chaos feeds,
a branch of leaves, a star atone;
and death’s complexity of needs.
I thought I’d shut them all away,
even the thought of God.
The toad with jewels in its head
breeds in the living mud.
Of this I’m sure, he said one day:
my mind’s my own: I wait: I pray.
Expectancy, receptiveness . . .
O see the wild flowering tree:
blossom, fruit inside a year.
Patience, waiting, blessedness.
O what will flower in our fear?
But then they came, marauders,
fiends,
and tore the cell, the silence,
tree,
and scattered blood across the
floor . . .
“Now we’ve come to set you
free.
You need not wait, not any more:
we’ve everything; we’ve cer-
tainty.”
O was my waiting your despair?
There wasn’t time; there’s never
time
to hear one hermit’s story told.
His slowness was encumbrance,
waste:
their way was fury, action, haste.
(The ancient hermits’ roads un-
fold
within the seasons of their years.)
Who wants an old man’s feeble
fears?
Gone the cell, the cloister, well,
silence and the spring in
flower . . .
Years broken in a violent hour.
And more, and more, that I
could tell.
They tore the nerves out of his
mind
and made him live a begging-
bowl,
and killed his paradise of doubt
and ripped the shape of meaning
out
and planted slogans in his soul.
TASMANIA.
Vivian Smith.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
M
Circular Charti lor all type*
of Recording Instruments
tor mny cUsa of Michinarf
METER CHARTS • Sp^cUlt?
3\cmm £ O’SIILU YAN^.U*
QUE( N STREET. BRISBANE
ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
m
m
\
i
i m
Mr. W. (Bill) Dwyer, Orchardist, of "Currahween," ITelso (who
has been an Ampol user for ten yearsl, says, “We run two
tractors on Ampol Power Kero sine and use Ampol fuel in trucks
and ‘the car. Oils and greases are all Ampol as well. I’m happy
with the products and l like the service that I have always received”
Use the best . . . Australia's own
■ ■ •
%
%
a
fllllfi
v
Dt
a
51
O C
ft
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM7.33
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following.
Research on the Eucalyptus, by R. T.
Baker and H. G. Smith (2nd ed.;
Sydney ; 1920); Memoirs, Historical
and Scientific, by J. Banks (Parra-
matta; 1855); Australian Pioneers arid
Reminiscences, by N. Bartley (Bris-
bane; 1896); The Ebbing of the Tide,
by L. Becke (1896); Half Mile Down,
by W. Beebe; Belcher’s Birds of the
District of Geelong. —6301.
To buy—any condition —copy oi
The Australian Home Gardener, by
Leslie H. Brunning.—63o2.
To buy copy of Barkers and Biters,
by Robert Kaleski. —6303.
Copy of any magazine containing
short biography (with photograph)
of Chris Brennan. —6299.
Information Sought
How to tan skins by the sulphuric-
acid-and-bran process ?
Pour five quarts boiling water over
two quarts bran, let stand a quarter-
hour, then strain. Make about an
equal quantity of salt-water by put-
ting into blood-warm water as much
salt as will dissolve in it. Mix the
bran-water with the salt-water, and
when the mixture is lukewarm, but
not warmer, add to every gallon one
ounce of sulphuric acid. Immerse the
skins, stirring them about occasionally
until tanned (about 20min.). Rinse
in clean water ; hang in a shady
place to dry. If skins are very dry,
before beginning the tanning soak
them in cold water until soft.
• * * *
Origin of the custom of tattooing
among natives? What purpose does it
serve?
Though the word is Polynesian, the
custom appears to have been almost
universal. The Arabs, North and
South American Indians, Chinese,
Japanese and Burmese all tattoo. Ihe
original idea probably was to attract
the opposite sex by ornament. The
Maori warriors used the process to
give themselves a ferocious appearance
in battle, but the women also tattooed
to add to their beauty. In most races
it assumes, in the course of evolution,
social or religious significance. In
Polynesia it is begun in or about the
twelfth year, and becomes a mark of
puberty. Among other natives it is
a means of recognition, a mark of
courage or a sign of mourning.
* * * *
When repotting ferns, what are (1)
the best kind of soil, and (2) best
manures to use?
(1) Equal parts of peaty soil and
rich loam in which is mixed a sprink-
ling of sand, leaf-mould, and pulver-
ised well-rotted cow-manure. Sieve
the soil before putting in the pots.
(2) Use weak liquid-manures only ;,
strong fertilisers may destroy the
young roots. Give the. stimulant
after the plants have been well
watered.
***.«■
(1) Biographical note on British
novelist Hall Caine? (2) Literary
assessment of his work ?
(1) Sir Thomas Henry Hall Caine
was born at Runcorn, Cheshire (Eng.),
of Manx and Cumberland parentage,
on May 14, 1853. Intended to be an
architect, he turned to journalism, and
wrote for the “A the n x u m,”
“Academy” and other periodicals.
After publishing Recollections of
Rossetti in 1882 and some critical
work, he began in 1885, with The
Shadow of a Crime, a career as a
novelist of a melodramatic type. His
subsequent novels included A Son of
Hagar (1887), The Deemster (1887),
The Bondman (1890), The Manxman
(1894), The Christian (1897), The
Eternal City (1901), The Prodigal
Son (1904), The White Prophet (1909),
and The Woman of Knockaloe (1923),
his last novel. The Christian, which
has been translated into most Euro-
pean languages, is his most famous
novel. Some of his novels were
dramatised for the stage. He was
elected to the Manx House of Keys
in 1901 was made a K.B.E. in 1918
and a Companion of Honor in 1922.
He died at Greeba Castle, Isle of
Man, in 1931. (2) Hall Caine was a
“best-selling” author of popular
romantic novels, with his readers
numbered in the hundreds of thou-
sands ; but the histories of British
‘ literature of his period ignore him, or
give him only scant' (and often
adversely critical) attention.
Brief Answers
“Bookie’s Dog”: Claim for pay-
ment joyfully received, but what on
earth’s the address of your confounded
kennel? ... .C.K.W.-C.: (1) Contri-
butions to this year’s anthology should
be submitted, not later than April 30,
to Mr. A. A. Phillips (this year’s
editor), c/o Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-sti eet, Sydney.
Two or three of the author’s recently-
written poems may be submitted ;
previous publication is no bar to
acceptance. (2) The magazine is to
be a quarterly review entitled “Quad-
rant”; first issue due in last
quarter of this year. Publishers,
the Australian Committee for Cul-
tural Freedom, Box 4714, G.P.0.,
Sydney ; editor, James McAuley.
K.G.: Write Masonite Corpora-
tion (Aust.), Ltd., 117 Pitt-street,
Sydney E.G.: Dymphpa Cusack’s
address is care of Commonwealth
Bank, The Strand, London. When
last heard from she was in Rome.
8.8.: (1) The tortoise-shell tulip-
tree grows in* the coastal districts of
southern Queensland and northern
N. S. Wales. (2) In color its timber
is a mixture of pink and yellow, and
it takes a high polish. (3) As the sap-
wood is liable to the attacks of borers,
only the heart-wood can be used for
cabinet-work. It is suitable for panels
in railway- and elevator-cars, boxes,
cabinets, trays, etc A.McD.: The
birds are (1) white-winged chough,
sometimes called black magpie
(scientific name, Corcorax melano-
r ham pus) and (2) spotted bower-bird
(Chlamydera maculata), known in
many parts as the mocking-bird....
L.N.G.: There are 625 members of
the House of Commons D.T.: No
local information. Suggest that you
write to Capt. R. W. Jones* Recorder,
Gorsedd of Bards of the Isle of
Britain, “Afallon,” Chelsea-lane,
Welshpool, Montgomeryshire, Wales.
D.B.: The reply to your query
appeared among “Brief Answers” of
March 21 issue G.H.: You would
need to give us more details; “scientol-
ism” is a false or superficial science.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.M.P.: Overcome by the pro-
fundity of “All loveliness would be of
little worth if it were hid, by darkness,
from our sight” M.S.: Another
dull encounter with bushrangers.
They come in at the rate of a score
a month K.N.: What have we
done to be asked to read what looks
like the sixth carbon-copy? H.H.:
Struggle to crowd the entire Aus-
tralian fauna into one poem goes
unrewarded... .P.H.: Left the poet
to his gazing out of windows on
rusty roofs... .8.8.P.L.: “I here
enclose an exile from the Land of
Prose, that fain would seek (its
wounds to nurse) asylum in the Land
of Verse. And though my pen can
scarce afford to write without reward,
I send to you a sample of the latest
brew, which, if to print you’re indis-
posed, please send me back within
enclosed.” Sonry, but we’re indis-
posed, so “within enclosed” goes back.
G.H.: Can’t rise to the imagery
of the soft breezes nestling in the arms
of the trees W.H.O’D.: A spec-
tacular tragedy:—
My girl she knitted a pretty red frock
And a bright red cap for her hair.
She wore it to the pub; got caught on a
nail,
And when she got home she was bare.
....G.P.W.: Not striking enough.
E.P.: Seriously considering pre-
senting you with a pair of handcuffs.
G.M.: If we might be permitted
to paraphrase one couplet:—
When autumn leaves drift bare and thin,
They come in droves, verses of that kin.
.... J.S.: We have on the premises
an outsize basket for all verses be-
ginning:—
Awake, Australia, young and free,
Great and blessed shall you be,
Arise and prove your destiny 1
. ...H.R.S.: A line from your epic,
will suffice as an answer —“ Re-
strain the hand which wanders
without wi11”... .D.P.M.: Those
tercets are trivial F.C.S.: A neat
little picture, but not for us
N.McL.: Will endeavor to struggle
along without your account of a trip
to the Zoo C.W.P.: “Hymn in
Praise of Gin” did not find favor with
the Religious Editor C.T.C.
Likewise your “My Lady Nicotine.”
W.J.: Well, that solves a
mystery:
DOGGEREL.
Some words are always most obscure,
To even college trained,
And doggerel’s^-a word, I’m sure,
That’s never been explained.
My dictionary says that it
Is unpoetic verse—
The sort of stuff some dull nitwit
Might make up and rehearse.
But I have oft seen ringing rhymes,
That told their stories well
With easy flow and rhythmic chimes
Described as doggerel.
This contradiction makes us mad
And leaves us where we stood,
For that word can’t mean something bad
And designate the good.
The problem set indeed is tough,
But evidence unites
To show that doggerel’s the stuff
The other fellow writes.


One reason why many
graziers use Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing
lambs is that, being
bloodless, this modem
hygienic method
avoids the risk of
blood poisoning and
greatly minimises the
danger of tetanus.
Coupled with the
almost complete elim-
ination of shock and
set-back these safety
factors cut down the
death roll amongst
newly marked and
tailed lambs to a
considerable extent.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES n” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach -
ment illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
rotary hoe
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you :
N.S.W.: Graze os Co-operative Lid-
-48 Young St., Sydney. BU Mil.
VIC.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8661.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 1S«-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane,-'' FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd-
-116 York St., Launceston. W. ACS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., <9l
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Lid.
7| Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SAVERS OF THE SOIL (2)
In this further article, author and practical land man
E. O. Schlunke completes his account of personal
investigations he made into soil-conservation generally,
and particularly the good work being done by the N.S.W.
Soil Conservation Service.
A BRIEF summary may convey
something of what I
discovered. In the first place, I
was gratified to find that only
34 of the 400-odd members of
the service’s staff are at head-
office in Sydney.
Of the total, 104 are conserva-
tionists, 138 “other Public Service
Board appointees,” while 161 are
“employed under Ministerial
authority,” which, in plain Aus-
tralian, means that they operate
the 91 crawler-tractors, 24
wheel - tractors, 81 grader-
ditchers, 44 grader-terracers, 52
scoops, 88 road-ploughs, and 105
motor-vehicles, and generally do
the chores of the service.
This plant has been used in
providing 159 major demonstra-
tions in vulnerable areas —for
example, 24 in the Hunter
Valley, 25 in the Upper Mac-
quarie and 21 in the Riverina.
The average cost of a major
demonstration is £470. As well,
there have been 375 minor
demonstrations, and, also, much
of the plant has been lent to
landowners under the plant-hire
scheme, 750 applications for
plant-hire having been received
in the last year.
All of this earthmoving-plant
in operation may sound rather
like violence being done to
Mother Earth, but it is only one
aspect of the service’s work.
Earthmoving-works are never
undertaken or recommended
except as surgical operations in
serious cases ; to give protection
to land while regeneration with
pastures and trees takes place.
In fact, th# service never
performs an operation without
an agreement from the farmer
to carry out a programme of
wise land-use as recommended
by its officers.
For similar reasons, a great
deal of work at the research-
stations —in addition to studies
in the rate of water-runoff and
soil-loss under various condi-
tions of vegetative cover and
slope—has been in investigating
suitable grasses and pasture-
plants which may assist in land-
restoration.
Each of the six N.S-W.
stations is conducting trials of
over 300 native or introduced
species or strains of grasses,
making a total of 1935 ; and
tree-nurseries have been estab-
lished at the five older stations,
from which 224,500 trees have
been distributed for soil-
conservation purposes.
At the date the report was
issued the service had worked
on 4500 properties, while techni-
cal advice and assistance had
been given on 13,400 more.
This represents an enormous
amount of country and an
enormous amount of work done
by the service officers.
What is perhaps more im-
portant, it indicates the rising
confidence of landowners in the
effectiveness of the methods
employed. A large proportion
of the men who are now coming
in for advice and assistance are
the diehards who sneered at
those methods a few years ago.
The example of their neighbors
has convinced them.
The service has also done a
great deal of work in inspecting
estates proposed for war-service
land-settlement, and where lands
have been acquired it has pre-
pared plans of soil-conservation
for those holdings requiring it.
Up to the present 586 such plans
had been prepared.
It would be impossible to
estimate the value of this par-
ticular branch of the service’s
work. The new settlers are
often men of limited experience
in land-use, but generally they
are keen, and eager to treat
their newly-won farms well.
This start in the right direction,
in many cases, not only helps
greatly to make good farmers of
them, but even results in their
becoming examples to the older
landholders in their districts.
In connection with *such
danger-areas as the Hunter
Valley the service has been
loaded with big responsibilities.
Some years ago it made a survey
of that particular area, and a
condensed report which appeared
in the service journal, dealing
with reckless land-use, soil-loss
and flood - danger, made
melancholy reading.
Following the later disastrous
floods in the area, and the public
determination that something
effective must be done, there has
been an increase in service con-
servationists in the, Valley,
with corresponding plant and
operators; 245 properties, total-
ling 386,000 acres, have been
treated to date; while, in con-
nection with the wide-scale, long-
range aspects, the service officers
have been active on the commit-
tee appointed to draw-up a
master-plan for the protection of
the lands and towns of the
Valley.
Elsewhere, scientific investi-
gations are under way in 11
major catchment - areas, the
areas surveyed being as large as
5360 square-miles, in the Burren-
dong ; 2522 square-miles, Upper
Burrinjuck; and 2700 square-
miles, Lower Snowy.
Vastly different problems
from the water-erosion of the
eastern parts of the State are
encountered in the Western
Division, where the chief
eroding-agent is the wind. The
Soil Conservation Service has
had its share in making living-
conditions in Broken Hill more
agreeable.
The conquest of drifting
sand-dunes and reduction of
duststorms in the Silver City
makes quite a story. Both of
these phenomena were actually
man-made. Originally the Hill
was covered with dense scrub,
saltbush and other vegetation,
and the soil there and on the
surrounding plain was stable.
But mining activities, human
depredations, herds of goats and
the concentration of stock at the
abattoirs destroyed all natural
protection. Overgrazing of the
surrounding areas further
assisted in establishing condi-
tions wherein duststorms were
accepted as normal, and drifting
sand became a major problem
in the city; even making some
houses on the outskirts impos-
sible to live in.
A number of bodies co-
operated in improving the situa-
tion, the chief activity of the
S.C.S. being its assistance in
establishing a regeneration-area
and shelter-belt half-a-mile wide
around those parts of the city,
most vulnerable to dust and
drifting sand.
This work has not only been
singularly successful in improv-
ing conditions in the city but
has provided a valuable example
to western pastoralists, who
should be encouraged to do
similar work, at least in small
areas surrounding their home-
steads.
To the casual visitor the
Western Division would appear
to present heartbreaking prob-
lems to the soil-conservationist.
The area is so vast, the damage
done by denuding great areas of
its natural vegetation so seem-
ingly irreparable, the valuation
Marrasn-grass, the most suc-
cessful agency, has been planted
over considerable areas, and its
success in anchoring the dunes
has led to a wide demand for
the grass from organisations
both private and public, which
are supplied from nurseries at
these stations. Experiments
with other vegetative species are
also under way.
At all the research-stations
and the larger district-centres
another important activity is
the training of conservationists.
Scholarships are provided at
agricultural colleges and at the
universities, after which the
cadets are taken into the service
and trained in the latest
conservation-methods.
For any young man who likes
the open-air life, and who has
a desire to do really valuable
work for his country, there
could hardly be a more worth-
while career.
of the land so low (much of it
is rented at an average rate of
id. per acre) as to make any
kind of remedial measure-
uneconomic.
Also, I have observed that
the people who live in the west
are less inclined than land-
holders living elsewhere to
undertake conservation - work.
Their main reason for going
west and putting up with the
disadvantages of isolation is that
they wanted to escape the
onerous day-after-day chores
necessary on the more intensive
type of farm. They just hate
to be “bothered.” They point
to recent improvement brought
about by a remarkable run of
good seasons and the reduction
of the rabbit-pest by myxo-
matosis ; things are going pretty
well without any effort on their
part; the climate is against
them; and it is all rather hope-
less, anyway.
Eight departmental men with
a couple of farm-tractors and a
few agricultural implements are
grappling with this huge prob-
lem. At various experimental
regeneration-areas research into
methods of re-establishing salt-
bush and other natural vegeta-
tion is being done.
Also, the S.C.S. is sharing in
the work at the experimental
Fowler’s Gap station north of
Broken Hill, where 96,094 acres
are under the control of various
interested departments and
scientific bodies. Here, vegeta-
tion, tree-growth, soils, geology,
erosion-rates and all other
aspects are studied.
At the other extreme of the
State another moving-sand prob-
lem is being attacked in a differ-
ent manner. Sand-dune-
stabilisation experiments are
being carried out at Port
Kembla, The Entrance North,
Port Macquarie and Buka.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Stubble-mulch Fallow
“Billjim”: Tests in some of the
driest and lightest soils in the
U.S.A. indicate that sub-tilling
to keep crop-residue on the sur-
face of fallow-land is an aid to
wheat - production in light
known as the coral-tree. Full
height is about 35ft.
country. It might have some
application in the Mallee wheat-
areas of Victoria and S.A.
In the State of Nebraska,
where growers usually alternate
fallow and wheat, six years of
experiments showed that sub-
tilling produced better results
than ploughing, burning and
ploughing, or one-way disking.
The crop-residue, or stubble-
mulch, left on the soil-surface
during the fallow-year by sub-
tilling resulted in better moisture-
infiltration into the soil and
slightly higher yields from the
following wheat-crop. Sub-tilling
also provided better protection to
the soil against wind- and water-
erosion.
A notable disadvantage of the
practice was that protein-con-
tent of the wheat decreased as
more residue was left on the soil-
surface during the fallow-year,
but .this was remedied by the
application of nitrogen-fertiliser,
applied as ammonium-nitrate and
broadcast at 301 b. per acre, after
harvest but prior to the fallow-
tillage operation, and again at
the same rate when the wheat
was 3in. to 4in. high.
The Coral-tree
“X.Y.”: For the stock- or
dairy-paddock this is one of the
best of all species.
A shapely tree, with wide
branch-spread, it is covered
thickly with its large leaves
from mid-spring to late autumn.
During this period individual
specimens provide stock with
dense shade from the sun; while
windbreaks of it effectively cut-
off the blast of hot westerlies.
Being deciduous, it allows any
area occupied by stock in winter
to benefit by full sunlight and
dry-out more quickly after rain.
The flowers, a brilliant red, are
borne in profuse sprays in the
spring before the leaves appear.
It is a hardy tree. For rapid
development it should be propa-
gated from truncheons up to
6ft. high, taken while the parent
tree is in its deciduous state.
Truncheons of this size require
well-prepared holes at least 4ft.
deep, and should be firmly
tramped into the holes 2ft. to
3ft. below ground-level. A good
watering at the start is usually
sufficient. Positions on flats or
hillsides are suitable if the soil
is deep and the drainage good.
This is one of the few trees
that will stand up to drenchings
of urine in cattleyards. Hun-
dreds of these trees planted in
the Homebush saleyards,
Sydney, have grown into mag-
nificent specimens.
Botanically known as Eryth-
rina corallodendron, the coral-
tree is a native of the West
Indies. The descriptive term
“coral” is generally supposed to
apply to the color of the flowers,
but some authorities declare that
it arises from the planting of
the trees around areas in which
horses and stock were “corralled”
in Mexico and certain U.S.A.
States.
It should not be mistaken for
the flame-tree (Brachychiton
acerifolium ), which is often
Wheat Restrictions
“Woomdoo”: Molnar, Vic-
torian conservation economist,
thinks that any wheat-acreage
restrictions should come first,
or most severely, in good mixed-
farming districts such as Ruther-
glen in north-east Victoria, then
down the scale to the practically
pure cereal-growing areas. It
seems a sensible idea.
As he points out, although file
plan might seem hazardous from
a drought-risk point of view, the
complete prohibition of wheat-
growing invdefined areas would
be easiest to enforce.
It would also be more effective
in restricting production than the
acreage-limitation of the U.S.,
where annual harvests have been
little affected, because it’s the


Hi
PTY
LAND
COLUMN
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast I
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally senes
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
1
:
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
31X 1831 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Fill in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BCNYIP LEVEL.
KAME
ADDRESS
LET YOUR HOLDEN DEALER SHOW YOU WHY
HOLDEN
is 4 times more popular
than any other utility
' ::
'
m
mmmrn
Official registrations recently
published show that Holden utility
sales for 1955 totalled 16,220 com-
pared with 3,794 for the next most popular
model. What better proof could there be
of the extra satisfaction and value that
Holden gives.
Holden is the only utility that combines:
6 cyl., 21 H.P. “square ” engine performance
• Outstanding dependability and petrol
economy—many owners report 30 m.p.g.
• Passenger car comfort and ease of handling
—turning circle is only 37 feet. • Generous
pay load area —751' floor length and
56-13/16' width. • Nation-wide availability
of specialised service and low-priced, factory-
guaranteed parts. • High resale value.
• Low first cost of £B5O plus tax.
Your Holden Dealer invites you to
accept an invitation —at no obligation what-
ever —to drive Holden Utility. Learn first
hand how flexible and powerful it is—
particularly under load. Get the facts on
how much Holden can save you in first
cost, running economy and resale value.
If you can't call at your Dealer's showrooms
for a demonstration, ring, and he will take
a Holden utility to you.
Owner praises HOLDEN
. . Our first utility purchased last year
has covered approximately 21,000 miles
and has covered that mileage without any
trouble or inconvenience through break-
downs etc. Replacement parts have been
nil and the economy is excellent, and with
this in mind we have no hesitation in
recommending Holden for the Building
Trade . . ”
Fricker Bros. Limited, Carrington Street,
Adelaide. S.A.
HOLDEN * Australia’s Own Utility
List Price £B5O plus tax. *Registered Trade Mark
Australia’s Own Panel Van. List Price £865 plus tax
Convenient GMAC hire purchase available. Air Chief car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
0758
poorest land that has gone out
of cultivation.
Under Molnar’s plan, idle
capital in the form of railhead-
silos would be less in the high-
rainfall areas than in places such
as the Victorian Mallee and
Wimmera, where big installations
await the annual harvest. In
fact, so little wheat was grown
in Victoria’s Western District
during the mid-1930’s that very
few silos were built there when
bulk-handling arrived in the
State.
If barred from growing wheat,
mixed-farmers could use their
plant to advantage by breaking-
up their swards periodically to
produce oats, which are an asset
on every grazing-property.
Such a plan would help rather
than harm sheep-raising opera-
tions, which are often neglected
on mixed-farms, at least season-
ally, in the rush of seeding and
harvesting; especially when
cropping coincides with lambing,
and harvesting with a blowfly-
wave and/or a footrot-eradica-
tion campaign.
If Molnar’s plan was adopted,
the main requirement would be
to ensure a good annual carry-
over of seed in case of drought.
In the‘past, surpluses have been
followed by scarcities which have
demanded as much seed as could
be found for re-stocking.
Storage would not be a great
problem these days, when weevils
and fungi can be controlled
fairly easily and cheaply.
Pasture Problem
“Spud”: A station-owner on
the Darling (N.S.W.) has grown
prolific stands of lucerne under
irrigation by means of pipelines
running uphill from the river.
However, innocent-weed, or the
burr “Gentle Annie,” has grown
along with the lucerne, and the
grower’s job has been to try
to convince visitors that advan-
tages of the lucerne outweigh
disadvantages of the burr. The
weed sticks to the skin like
thorn, and anyone who sits on
a nest of it is assured of a pain-
ful seat. A problem—no doubt
surmountable —for the “weed”-
men.
New Logging-system
“D.St ’: As most of the forest-
areas in Victoria (messmate-
peppermint type) that are close
to mills have supposedly been
“cut-out,” the Forests Commis-
sion, in order to produce logs,
has adopted a new logging-
system.
Previous practice was to allot
each an area, his fallers
only felling trees certain of yield-
ing a sound log. After logging,
stands were left carrying a stock
of mature trees, some of which
might hold logs. The effect of
these remaining trees was to
dominate competition for light
and water, thus preventing
establishment of a new seedling-
crop.
To rejuvenate such areas, a
tree-marker blazes for removal
all trees that possibly contain a
log, also old stags that occupy
valuable space. Seed-trees are
left where required. The miller
falls all trees marked and pays
royalty on all logs obtained ; for
trees that do not yield a log
because of defects the miller is
paid the cost of falling on a
girth-basis.
Result is twofold: miller
obtains a log-supply and the
forest is able to grow a new
crop.
Wool-grease Use
“Bolagnum”: The possibility
of obtaining important pharma-
ceutical products, such as corti-
sone, from wool-grease by the
use of bacteria, is good news
for our most important industry.
Some wool-grease is used in
lotions and lipstick, but thou-
sands of tons of it goes down the
drain annually.
In his gold-medal prizewinning
essay “Living Reagents,” Dr. P.
Woodford, of Leeds University,
suggests that micro-organisms
might well play a part in the
transformation of wool-grease’s
cholesterol into pharmaceutical
products. Use of the bacteria
would replace a drastic chemical
method.
It is possible that the micro-
organisms might be able to con-
vert the currently commercially
useless lanosterol into similar
products.
Dr. Woodford suggests that
suitable bacteria might be
obtained from fermented press-
cake (a product of the wool-
grease industry). Alternatively,
some of the strains in sewerage-
filters to purify effluents contain-
ing wool-grease might prove
effective.
Dairy Hygiene
“C.A.A.”: Considerable
foreign'-matter gets into milk,
butter and cheese. In addition to
the usual washing and rinsing in
hypochlorite solution (containing
250-300 parts per million of
available chlorine), all utensils
should be inverted after use to
keep out dust and never be
placed on the floor. Udders
should be kept clipped and
should be washed before each
milking, preferably with
chlorine-solution, and teat-cups
should be rinsed between cows.
Cotton-strands often get into
milk, so watch for worn and
soiled dairy-cloths.
Buildings should be protected
from dust, flies and rodents,
wherever possible lined, and
painted on all surfaces with high-
gloss washable paint. Yards,
too, should be concreted and
arranged so that cows do not
traffic around the shed.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Weevils are the
biggest menace to stored grain.
See that the bam or container
is first cleaned-out and sprayed
with weevil-oil or dusted with a
0.5 per cent. B.H.C. solution at
loz. to every 3 square-yards of
surface, giving particular atten-
tion to cracks. If fumigants are
used, see that there is no danger
to animals or from fire. Carbon-
bisulphide or chloropicrin, at
101 b. to every 1000 cubic-feet, is
the most usual. Then seal for
48 hours. As both are heavier
than air, either can be applied by
pouring it over the grain or
putting it in shallow containers
on top. Bagged grain can be
fumigated under a tarpaulin free
of holes. Dusting close to the
surface is most effective with
loose grain. Use 0.5 per cent.
B.H.C. at ilb. to every 100
square-feet.
“C.A.A.”: Jetting sheep with
0.1 per cent, dieldrin-solution
(three pints in 44gals. of water)
at a pressure of not more than
651 b. per square-inch is an effec-
tive means of preventing fly-
strike. However, the jet should
be applied only to the woolled
areas of the breech, otherwise
scald may occur. If this does
appear, put sheep in a small
shaded paddock and feed them
succulent supplements until the
inflammation disappears.
“1.L.”: Directions for adminis-
tering tetrachloroethylene-eap-
sules to dogs or poultry in the
treatment of worms emphasise
that every care must be taken to
avoid capsules breaking in the
mouth. A twist of tissue-paper
around the capsules is a harm-
less safety-measure.
“V.”: A couple of tablespoon-
fuls of one of the popular
powdered laundry - detergents
dissolved in the scald-water will
help remove every last trace of
hair and dirt from the pig-
carcass, leaving it snowy-white.
“Aqua”: An inexpensive insu-
lation-material for the poultry-
farm is made from sawdust-
cement blocks. Twelve measures
of sawdust, two of cement and
one of lime are mixed as
ordinary concrete and pressed
into moulds.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(15/ 4/’56)
N.S.W. should have light, patchy raihs during May,
although some moderate falls may occur in the northern
division. Winter months are likely to be wet, with prob-
able widespread! flooding in the western division during July.
With the exception of light rain in the south-west and
part of the far-west, reasonably good general rains should
continue in Queensland during May, with further heavy
falls on the northern coast.
General rains should commence during May in Vic-
toria; there is a possibility of severe frosts in the latter half
tof the month. The winter should be wet and comparatively
mild.
South Australia should receive general rains during
May, although this may be only light in the north interior
and Murray Valley.
General rains above normal may occur in the south-
west of W.A. and in portion of the West Gascoyne during
May, and a good season should follow.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MING
Civil Servants
When starting-price betting was legal-
ised in W.A. the Public Service Com-
missioner gave permission for civil ser-
vants to accept work as s.-p. bookmakers’
clerks, and he now claims —it sounds like
a boast —that only 50 of his officers are
employed in this woflc. Four of those
were in the “higher-income category,” and
he withdrew permission in their cases,
apparently considering it was undignified
for a highly-placed officer or departmental
head to accept bets from his subordin-
ates or from customers with whom he
might at some time have to take a firm
sta«d.
The commissioner might have some-
thing there. A taxpayer could have
serious objections to receiving distasteful
instructions from a man whom he last
met as a bookie’s clerk, or from whom he
recently ordered ice-creams and cool-
drinks at a drive-in theatre.
Following the commissioner’s dis-
closure, the secretary of the Civil Service
Association assured the public that his
association “fully approved of its mem-
bers taking part-time work with book-
makers,” and claimed that “civil servants
could provide the nucleus of an ideal
clerical staff for bookmakers.”
They might also provide the nucleus
for an ideal staff for the civil service, and
there was a time when that was con-
sidered to be their chief function. At
that time, there was also a conception of a
certain dignity attached to the civil ser-
vice, and to preserve that dignity Govern-
ment servants were guaranteed perman-
ency of employment under all economic
conditions. Anyone who recalls the
depression will appreciate how valuable
that guarantee can be, and will remem-
ber how it raised civil servants to a
unique position in the Commonwealth.
They weathered the economic crisis in a
sheltered bay of their own.
That permanency of employment under
all conditions may at one time have tended
to keep civil-service wages slightly below
those for similar work in the commercial
field ; but since the war overemployment
has obscured the value of this type of
remuneration, and in the various success-
ful appeals for increases the civil service
has conveniently kept this aspect well in
the background. As a result, wages are
comparatively higher in the civil service
than in commerce; and While the shelter
remains the dignity, which was supposed
to go with it has disappeared.—Tax-
payer (W.A.).
Easy Divorce
From time to time moves have been
made for easier divorce-laws to provide
a way out for couples who have found it
difficult, for various reasons, to live in
harmony together.
There is no reflection on the sincerity
of those who advocate such measures, but
relaxation of present restrictions on
divorce could have serious effects from
the national viewpoint. This is given
great emphasis in the report of a Govern-
ment commission appointed in Great
Britain in 1951 to investigate marriages
and divorces. It warns that the grow-
ing tendency to turn to divorce as a solu-
tion for marital problems is threaten-
ing the whole institution of marriage.
The report said: “Marriages are now
breaking-up which, we are convinced,
would have held together in the past.
Unless this tendency is checked, there is
real danger that the conception of mar-
riage as a lifelong union of one man with
one woman may be abandoned.”
As proof of this tendency, it was stated
that 5472 divorces were granted in 1937 ;
in 1954 divorces numbered 29,671.
Comment was that, even allowing for a
proportion of post-war divorces being a
result of hasty war-time marriages, the
increase was alarming.
Granted that “the complexity of
modern life multiplies the potential
causes of disagreement” (as the report
states), the trend —which is paralleled to a
large extent by Australian statistics —pro-
vides food for serious thought Whatever
one’s view of the religious aspects, every
divorce means a broken home; a broken
home means a loss to the community of
an important and stabilising unit; and
where children are involved —as in the
majority of divorce-cases —the loss
to them, in security, protection and con-
trol, is incalculable.
The many investigations have left
little doubt that the lack of a satisfactory
home-environment is responsible for a
high proportion of child-delinquency.
Easier divorces, however justifiable in
relation to marital differences, will neces-
sarily mean an increase in the numbers
of children lacking proper and adequate
parental care, and in the burden borne
by the State in. relation to such
children.
From that viewpoint alone, any attempt
to relax our divorce- and marriage-laws
should be viewed with extreme caution.
After all, one of the primary purposes of
marriage, and possibly the most import-
ant purpose, is the nurture and upbring-
ing of children. Their welfare should not
be lightly jeopardised.— Ardoyne (Vic.).
Inflation
The problem facing Australia today is
not the substitution of deflation for in-
flation, but the checking of further infla-
tion (B. 21/3/’56).
No serious authority proposes a defla-
tionary policy. It would have disastrous
effects on all the people committed to
financing homes, businesses, agricultural
development, cars and household furni-
ture and amenities at current money-
values.
It is, however, vitally necessary that
prices be stabilised at approximately their
present level. If there is a continued
decline in the purchasing-power of the
pound Australia will be priced out of its
export-markets and thrift won’t be worth
the effort.
If the Australian economy is to expand,
far more local money must go into
investment, public and private. This
must come primarily from savings. When
the purchasing-power of a currency
steadily declines there is an acceleration
of spending, with a corresponding stimu-
lus to inflation. No country has thriven
under inflation. Stability of our currency
is vital to economic progress.— Economist
(N.S.W.).
Old Glory
There is a special reason why school-
children in the U.S.A. “are taught to
regard their flag as next to God” (B.
4/4/’56).
One advantage which a monarchy pos-
sesses over a republic is that it provides
an especially satisfying focal-point for the
patriotism of its people. Your republican
leader is of necessity a political figure,
with a substantial number of people
"X-nine to base—flying blind in cloud. Please give direction. .."
opposed to his politics, and, therefore
(such is human nature), opposed to him
personally.
When Franklin Roosevelt was trying to
give the U.S.A. a “new deal” he was
execrated by many Americans who
wanted no interference with the “old
deal.” It could not be expected that
these political opponents would give him
undivided loyalty. Lincoln had his violent
detractors as well as his fanatical
admirers, and although millions of
Americans “like Ike” one cannot en-
visage the Democrats singing a national
anthem in his praise.
We do things better in the British
Commonwealth. As the result of cen-
turies of trial and error, the monarchial
system has given us a Queen who is
above and beyond politics. By virtue of
her unique position her Majesty com-
mands the complete allegiance of all
political parties. She expresses no poli-
tical views, takes part in no political
“How d ’ you focus this thing ?”
campaigns and has not even got a vote.
When the Americans cut the painter
from Britain they soon realised certain
disadvantages. Without a king, how wer,e
they to inculcate patriotism in the minds
of the rising generation? They produced
a new national anthem, true, but it was
not enough; it lauded a country, not a
human figure. What was left to concen-
trate upon? Obviously the flag.
So began the daily ritual in U.S. schools
which became intensified when foreign
migrants flowed into the U.S. in their
millions. Then, as now, the children were
taught to regard the Stars and Stripes as
the focal-point of their loyalty, the
symbol of America and its way of life.
I don’t suggest that the American flag-
drill has not achieved its purpose—we
do much the same sort of thing here—but
I think they have to do it harder and
more often than the British, to whom
the flag (important though it is) is
secondary to the monarch. — Bullswool
(Vic.).
Hot Grid
Sunday morning, main street, Queens-
land Downs town of Dalby; street filled
with cars, quiet. Then a stir —two
young men urgently pushing a brand-
new motor-bike away from the parked
cars out into the middle of the street.
Round the polished chrome of the bike
there is a small flicker of flame. Ominous
flickers, competing faintly with the bright
sunlight. The bike drops on its side, its
owner looking round desperately for
something to smother the incipient fire.
Cars stop, watch. One driver throws
across a wheat-bag, dry. Nothing else
forthcoming.
Then the bike, as though tired of its
indulgence—when even one small fire-
extinguisher could easily have smothered
the flickers—goes up in a roaring sheet
of fuel-fed flame. The bag is thrown on—
and merely adds to the fire. By the time
the fire-engine arrives there is little left
to burn but the front tyre.
In all those parked cars there was not
one fire-extinguisher. Mine? A flick’s
as good as a kick—l bought one the next
morning.— Jemac (Q.).
Coastal Shipping
There are now only five passenger-
ships regularly engaged on the coast
between Fremantle and Cairns, and it
looks as if thdre will soon be only four.
Before the war 10 passenger-ships were
engaged on the Australian coast; with
the passing of the Manunda the trade
will be confined to the Duntroon,
Westralia, Manoora and Kanimbla.
Shipping-officials say the passenger-trade
is being killed by intense competition
from road, rail and air, and by high costs
and industrial troubles. No new inter-
state passenger-ships have been brought
into service since 1936.
The secretary of the Victorian branch
of the Seamen’s Union says that modern
ships are needed, and, of course, they
must be run by the Commonwealth Line
—"a Government line in fact as well as
name. He maintains that the private
shipping-companies are out-of-step with
the needs of the people. The union’s
contention is that the whole of the
shipping-industry should be nationalised
—only then will it provide the people
with the utmost efficiency in sea-
transport.
Years ago we had a Commonwealth
Government line engaged in the
passenger-trade overseas, with results that
culminated in sale of the ships to the
benefit of all concerned. We don’t want
to start all that over again. If private
enterprise cannot make the trade pay, it
shows that passenger-travel by sea is on
the way out so far as the Australian coast
is concerned. — Ceg (Vic.).
Interest Charges
One feature of the debate about the
supplementary Budget has been the
emphasis placed on the increased costs
to the public and industry by higher
interest-charges. A forgotten factor is
that the interest-cost of money has
remained nearly stable for about a
decade, all other commodities having
increased in price. Surely the laborer
(money) is worthy of his hire.
I have seen no mention of the fact
that much borrowing is not absolutely
necessary, a lot of it representing unsound
business and luxury-buying.
Wouldn’t it be better for all members
of Parliament to stress the value of thrift,
the advantages of saving for our needs
and paying cash for them, and the all-
round benefit such habits would on
the Australian economy?
The greatest check on inflation would
be a buying-public with the cash. It
could then drive a hard bargain, and then
only would we get worth-while competi-
tion, together with efficiency. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.)-


result. Thousands more would be killed
or maimed on the roads by drunken
drivers. And so forth.
The prohibitionists were definitely
opposed to a change, which is in keep-
ing with their usual form, and all was fair
to them in methods used to put their
views to the people.
It is a pity that the U.L.V.A. led the
case for the opposite view, although it
would have been difficult to find a united
body or association more capable. Many
voters must have been influenced by the
hotelkeepers’ own association trying to
persuade them to vote their way. The
majority of hotelkeepers in Victoria are
still many years behind the times, and
have done little to endear themselves to
the general public. A lot of “Yes”-votes
must have been lost on that account.
What is the real answer to this
problem?
It seems ludicrous in this enlightened
age that the vast majority of decent,
responsible citizens should be refused
civilised drinking-facilities. The reason
rests with the small minority who abuse
the present facilities, and would still
abuse any progressive changes. Even
Storm Warnings
A lot of ill-informed criticism is
directed at our weather-bureaus, but there
is one thing with which I heartily agree ,
it is summed-up in the question, often
directed at members of meteorological
staffs : “Don’t you fellows ever look out
of a window to see what’s happening ?
Local weather in some places is liable
to sudden, unpredictable change. Some
years ago, just after the State bureau-start
dad gone off duty for the night, a smah
but intense cyclone developed to the
north-west of Adelaide and moved
towards the city.
It struck Adelaide in the early hours
of the morning, unroofing houses, wreck-
ing jetties and causing great damage.
Some of the gusts registered 75 m.p.h.
Many people in the path of the storm
could have sent a warning ahead —if there
had been some place to receive telephone-
messages of this kind and take action.
We need a volunteer corps of weather-
observers, scattered over the Common-
wealth, to telephone information of
sudden weather-changes to the nearest
bureau. Such a system is operated now
by our airlines, with pilots sending in
details of weather encountered on a flight
It is also operated by residents of
fruitgrowing areas in the form of a frost-
alarm, and by those living along our
rivers to give warning of a flood on the
way. I was at a station on the Gascoyne
River (W.A.) when a neighbor living
upstream rang to say: “Three-inches in
an hour above me. She’s coming down!’
No rain had fallen where we were; m
fact, we couldn’t see a cloud, although
the high humidity showed there were
thunderstorms about. My host passed
on the warning, and within half-an-hour
the people of Carnarvon, at the river-
mouth, were preparing for a flood. It
duly arrived, and it was a beaut.
The proper place to receive such
warnings would be the meteorological
office at our principal airports, where
somebody is on duty day and night.
Within a matter of minutes the warning
could be passed on and broadcast by
radio-stations, some of which operate
throughout the night.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Victoria’s Liquor Vote
Victorians recorded a very solid “No”
in the liquor-referendum, which asked:
“Are you in favor of extending hotel
trading-hours until 10 p.m.?”
It was generally conceded that the
question was badly worded and limited
the campaign for both sides to six-o’clock
closing being retained or a change to
10-o’clock being possibly introduced by
the Government.
The “Stick-to-Six” campaign was
sponsored largely by the Local Option
Alliance, supported by the churches. The
advocates for the alternative were led
by the U.L.V.A.
The campaign must have been an
expensive one for both sides. Large
newspaper-advertisements, radio-scatters
and public meetings were about even and
did much to obscure the real significance
of the problem.
The Government, by holding such a
referendum, was adhering to a resolution
of the L.-C.P. State council. All liquor-
questions being political dynamite, it
was not expected that the present L.-C.P.
Government would touch the subject
except with the majority consent of the
people.
It is doubtful, however, whether the
referendum has done any real good. The
“No”-vote side made many extrava-
gant claims in a real scare-campaign.
Parents were warned that 10-o’clock
closing would take teenagers from the
milkbars and into pubs. Juvenile
delinquency would be the inevitable
“Would you say a few Words to Mitzi in German , Herr Schornickel?
She’d love it.”
under complete prohibition they would
remain unchanged.
Why is it that a man with a wife and
six children, living in a two-roomed slum-
dwelling, tends to divert his frustration
and boredom in the local pub? Or that
a youth, not having had the advantages
of higher education, or a trade, takes to
excessive drinking as an outlet in the
absence of more interesting pastimes?
The answer must lie in better social
conditions. This is not new; it has been
stressed by social-workers on very many
occasions. The greater problem is pre-
cisely how to introduce such conditions.
It won’t be done by altering the hours of
liquor-trading. After all, why 10-o’clock
closing? Why not nine, or even 11 p.m.?
The present six-o’clock closing gives rise
to greater social evils than later closing
ever could. —W. H. E. (Vic.).
Tasmanian Education
Neither the implications nor the state-
ments in “J.M.E.’s” comments about
Tasmania’s Schools Board Examination
(B. 21/3/’56) are correct.
The Schools Board of Tasmania is a
body set up to control the award of a
general Leaving Certificate for pupils of
both State and private schools at the end
of a four-year course. Thus it has juris-
diction over both the internal examina-
tion conducted by the State schools and
the external one favored by the private
schools. It consists of a chairman, and
four members nominated by the Univer-
sity Council, the Director of Education,
and the Association of Headmasters and
Headmistresses of the Public Schools of
Tasmania. Its secretary happens, simply
for convenience, to be the Registrar of the
University.
The private schools did not, then, “in-
stitute a Schools Board exam, of their
own, with university examiners.” There
is only one Schools Board, using two
methods of examination.
Of the external examiners, several are
teachers in State schools, others senior
officers of the Education Department, and
the rest are from the University. Their
question-papers, and their marked scripts,
have to be approved by the two executive
officers of the Schools Board.
True enough, the subject-teachers do
set and mark the internal exam., but
there is nothing haphazard about their
standards. Their question-papers must
be submitted to the Schools Board before
they are attempted by the candidates. In
practice, these papers are scrutinised by
either the executive officers or the specialist
external examiners, who not infrequently
flatter the teachers by borrowing their
ideas for the external papers. The sug-
gestions made after this scrutiny bring
uniformity of standards throughout the
State.
That is not the end of it. After the
exam, is over, the accrediting committee
visits the schools to review the marked
scripts. This committee consists of the
two executive officers and specialists in
the various subjects, including at least
two teachers from the private schools —
about 10 in all. Members of this com-
mittee fix the pass- and credit-standard
in each subject by actually checking the
answers of individual pupils. This pro-
cedure is followed in every accrediting
school and with the external papers. My
experience,. in three schools, has been
that this committee grants passes to can-
didates who have been failed by their
teachers more often than it reverses the
process.
The teachers’ estimate of the year’s work
of pupils also enters into it. But before
a child who has failed in the exam, is
granted a pass the teacher must present a
strong case to the visiting committee. The
award of a pass is not made solely by the
subject-teacher concerned. The accredit-
ing process works in reverse, too. It is
not unusual for teachers to oppose the
granting of a pass which seems to be
justified by the exam, script presented to
the committee.
The limit of the scope is not set by the
examining teacher, because the Schools
Board will not accept a paper which does
not cover all of the syllabus prescribed
for the external exam. But within this
scope accrediting does make for better
teaching, for the teacher can approach
his subject in his own way, without having
to take account of the known or
unknown idiosyncrasies of some external
examiner. . .
As regards comparative standards it is
enough to say that teachers who mark
external papers complain that they have
difficulty in getting enough to pass, while
the percentage of passes in the accredit-
ing schools is consistently high.
As for the evils of the internal-exam,
system showing-up at the university-
degree exams., it is hard to reconcile
that with the fact that all degree-candi-
dates are there by virtue of having passed
a single, external matriculation exam.,
conducted by the University itself.
The only weakness in the Schools
Board system is that it does come too
close to matric. One year is not enough
to make matriculation students out of
Schools Board pupils, taking into account
the nature and purpose of the two exams.
—Pevin (Tas.).
Women Farmers
“Ex-R.S.M.” is correct in saying (B.
12/2/’56) that no women students are
admitted to Australian agricultural col-
leges. At Dookie College (Vic.) only one
girl has been admitted as a diploma-
student and she did not complete the
three-year course. Since then no other
girl has been enrolled' as a diploma-
student. Girls studying at Melbourne
University for their B.Agr.Sc. spend one
year at Dookie as part of their university
course.— Dookie (Vic.).
President Eisenhower
Now that President Eisenhower is to
run again his political opponents are sug-
gesting that he won’t be fit enough to
give himself fully to the duties of State
—■will, in fact, be a “40-hour-week”
President. There doesn’t seem to be
much ground for that view and the
electors probably won’t take much notice
of it.
Admittedly, when he is re-elected in
November this year, Eisenhower will be
66, the oldest age, with one exception,
at which a President has ever been
elected. (The exception was William H.
Harrison, elected in 1840 when 68 ; he
died within a month of taking office.)
Eisenhower’s re-election is Vital for the
free world. “The greatest President of
modem times,” he is already being
called. Apart from his other qualities, he
seems to be one of the few Western
leaders to have won the confidence and
trust of the Russian rulers, while standing
up against their demands.
A wave of confidence on New York
’Change, with many companies reporting
“continued prosperity,” followed the
assurance that the President would stand
again.
U.S. prosperity, by general admission,
is now at its peak ; and it’s not, of course,
due solely to one man. But one man, the
President, is a very important factor. As
U.S. Secretary Weeks said recently, his
country’s prosperity “stems from the con-
fidence which Americans have in private
enterprise and in the best-liked President
of the ages, Dwight D. Eisenhower.”—
Kros (S.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 379
Across
I—lt1 —It is five presumably, or a caller.
(7)
s—lt’s back with the contented
rumbling of a cat in the same
condition iron of a jockey. (7)
8— The first insect of its kind to be
immovable. (7)
9 Six-footers in minority religions.
(7)
11 — Montrose is its modified produc-
tions which are unnatural. (13)
12— Australian authoress who isn’t
fair. (4)
13 — Tasty pennies choose a seaman
against the French. (10)
16 —Obscurely fading line is raking
with shot through the whole
length of a line. (10)
20—By one fairy like lolanthe. (4)
23 — Shingle talk. (6, 7)
24 — Don’t be drastic in Teddy’s
favor. (7)
25 Caledonian, Caledonian and
(probably) Caledonian. (7)
26 — Neat officer. (7)
27 A haircut is ordered in broken
English. (7)
Down
1— Six shorten the way by which
Hornsby - Wynyard passengers
may avoid Strathfield. (3,6)
2 The south mallet is a malingerer.
(7)
3 Expresses exercises. (6)
4 Letter I modified to give a new
name. (7)
5 Thorny matter of course I smell.
(7)
6 Again get up when about to see
the leg. (7)
7 Such attitudes spoil the sheriff’s
party. (5)
10 —Isn’t in the steamer folk who’ve
been canonised. (6)
14 — The east eleven’s not so many to
this French life. (9)
15 — Run away with this French
objective of Jason. (6)
17— Knocked out Florence or
Edward. (7)
18— Quack ahead of schedule —but
in a dull manner. (7)
19— Emperors of Abyssinia. (7)
21 — Nice hog (anagram). (7)
22 Variety is the spice of this first
volume after it turned up. (6)
23 Comic actor in opera is nothing
yellowish. (5)
Solution to CroMword No. 378


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland,
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty-
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
m.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
TW« wnttr. p«ura H a PAID ADVERTTSFMFNT
hipwl OMBtMy t*r MOFFAT-VIRTUE tTMlTED
April
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1956
AUSTRALIAN OUTBACK THIRSTS FOR
CHEAP POWER!
The Refieufated Power Lines, stretching out into the vast and relatively sparsely populated inland
areas of the Australian continent, are as far off as ever for many thousands of properties.
Yet every day, with the application of electrical power to more labour saving
and time saving machines for industrial and domestic use, the need for power
grows.
It seems ironic that, though the incandescent electric light-bulb was invented
in 1879 and the town of Tamworth, N.S.W., had electric street lights in 1888,
there are still, in 1956, sixty-eight years later, huge areas in Australia without
reticulated power.
Because of the enormous growth of
secondary industries in large towns and
cities the demand, for power has been
so great that only importation of
emergency “Package” Plants has
enabled power generation to keep pace
with demand.
The cost of construction of additional
facilities for the provision of reticu-
lated or “Bulk” Power has risen to
astronomical proportions in recent
years. People everywhere contribute
through their income tax to the expan-
sion of power facilities. In New South
Wales alone the State Electricity Com-
mission has high tension power lines
totalling more than 23,000 route miles
in operation, yet the demand for
electric power increases at such a rate
that it actually doubles itself every nine
years. The N.S.W. Commission’s
present generating capacity is close to 1
million KWs. This huge output barely
satisfies the demand. Great expansion
of generating facilities is planned, and
the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric
Scheme could contribute in the distant
future, a total of 3 million KWs. of
power.
But these developments are slow; loan
funds for large-scale works of this kind
are short. The cost of reticulated
power is now so high in many places
that consumers in a position to choose
have actually preferred to generate their
own.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., offers a range of
Light and Power plants so comprehen-
sive that everyone, whatever the need,
can enjoy the advantages of electricity
now, instead of in the hazy future.
The above photo, by courtesy of The Bulletin, shows Munyang Powerhouse,
the Snowy scheme’s first completed producirtg-unit.
The careful, scien-
tific testing and
checking, combined
with modern manu-
facturing methods,
which Moffat-
Virtue engineers
pursue right
through the process
of manufacture, en-
sures that the Plant
installed for you
will not only
ope rate economi-
cally, but will per-
form with complete
reliability through-
out its long life.
COUNTRY HOUSEWIFE GETS A NEW
DEAL-AND MORE LEISURE TIME
It is generally recognised that a necessary step in preventing the drift ol
rural population to the cities is the provision of the same amenities, even
in remote country areas, which city dwellers enjoy.
The provision of economical electric
light and power in country homes
makes a tremendous difference to
leisurely living . . . Inadequate,
dirty, kerosene lamps can be for-
gotten. The country housewife can
enjoy the cool comfort of an electric
fan, make cooking easier with
toaster, or hot water jug, coffee
percolator, etc. ... She can take
all the drudgery out of housework,
too, with an electric iron, vacuum
cleaner, floor polisher, or washing
machine.
Electric light gives any home the
appearance of gracious hospitality
. . . Electric lamps are safe, and
easy to install anywhere you want
them—in the garage or stables,
along your driveway—anywhere you
want light.
There’s a Moffat-Virtue Lighting
Plant to make all this possible in
YOUR home. Remember, Moffat-
Virtue Plants are easy to operate—
many are operated by the women in
the family. They are easy to own,
economical and trouble free.
There’s a MOFFAT-VIRTUE Light & Power Plant
designed to suit the needs of all Country dwellers
Manufactured in various models from 700 to 4000 watts for 32, 50 and 110 volt service, each powered
by the famous Moffat-Virtue Petrol Engines in sizes from 2| h.p. to 6 h.p. and Diesel Engines from
3| to 8 h.p.
Whether it be a small type “JB”
700 watt 32 volt Unit for the
small Home requiring a few
Lights or a type “D4C” 4000
watt —110 volt Plant for large
Homes, Country Hotels, Stores
and Institutions — Moffat-Virtue
can supply it.
The popular Moffat-Virtue types
“JB” - “KB” and “PB” Plants are
designed for the small, average and
hot so small Home. They are
easy to operate and maintain, and
running costs are extremely low
—the Engine uses only 0.7 of a
pint of Petrol per h.p. per hour
on full load. These Plants are
recommended for Installations
requiring from 12 Lights and
upwards with ample reserve power
for Vacuum Cleaners, Washing
Machines, Radio, Food Mixers,
Fans, etc. These Plants are
powered by the famous Moffat-
Virtue type “V3” - 2} h.p. and
3 h.p. Water Cooled Petrol
Engines.
Every Moffat-Virtue Light and
Power Plant is a sound financial
proposition while providing com-
fort and enjoyment for the whole
family. With the aid of electric
power there are so many jobs
that can be done more easily and
quickly, thus saving valuable
time and energy, such as pump-
ing, sawing, the use of small
engineering and woodworking
power-tools, housework — even
electric welding.
If used sensibly, your Moffat-
Virtue plant will provide elec-
tricity for all your needs at a rate
cheaper than local town supply!
Whatever your power problems,
it will be well worth while to
contact our competent electrical
staff, who will gladly advise you
on lighting and battery matters
without any obligation on your
part.
For further details about the
Moffat-Range of Light and Power
Plants ask your nearest Moffat-
Virtue Agent, or write, call in or
phone direct to Moffat-Virtue
Head Office, or any of the State
Distributors listed at the foot of
this page.
