

/
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE NEW FEDERAL SESSION
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3993
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Wednesday, August 22, 1956
Price 1/-
THE CHOIR OF
NORWICH CATHEDRAL,
A GEM OF ARCHITECTURE
"VTORWICH, in East Anglia, is a city
in which the past and present blend
harmoniously, but the two most striking
and imposing features of the city are both
inherited from the past; they are the
Cathedral and the Castle, and both are
of Norman design.
The Cathedral, which dates from 1096,
is approached through the Erpingham
Gate, built by that redoubtable old
Knight, Sir Thomas Erpingham, who
commanded the rearguard at the Battle
of Agincourt in 1415.
Norwich Cathedral was designed on
the grand scale, and its success can only
be measured in superlatives. The lofty
Norman nave, bounded by its massive
columns, is the chief glory of the interior
of the Cathedral, but it is closely rivalled
by the magnificent Choir, shown in the
accompanying illustration.
Because of its monastic origin, the
Choir is in the nave, occupying The two
easternmost bays. Here can be seen a
magnificent series of sixty-two choir
stalls dating from the early 15th century,
with elaborately carved canopies and
misericords ; the latter are carved seats
on which the monks could rest during
the long night offices.
Between the 12th and 16th centuries
this part of-the Cathedral was repeatedly
damaged by fire and storm ; the magnifi-
cent stone roof was added in the 15th
century. Behind the high altar stands a
primitive stone throne, the only one of
its kind in northern latitudes, and it
originally served as the seat of the
founder of the Cathedral, Herbert de
Losinga, 850 years ago.
Regimental colours are preserved in
the Choir, and two of the oldest belong
to regiments which left England to
reinforce troops in India during the
Mutiny in 1857. The transport carrying
the regiment caught fire when a thousand
miles from land, and had it not been for
the order and discipline that prevailed
the ship would have been completely
lost with all on board. While the flames
were at their height the pair of colours
which now hang in Norwich Cathedral
were rescued from the burning saloon by
two soldiers.
No. 312: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
NATIONAL ANTHOLOGIES
The making of a national anthology
such as Judith Wright has attempted to
do for the Oxford University Press in
A Book of Australian Verse is, of
course, an extraordinarily difficult
task. The hardest thing of all, especially
for a practising writer, is to look back
into the periods immediately preced-
ing our own, whose moods and styles
and aims were utterly different, and to
try to decide what living merit remains
under the strange costume.
You can put everybody in, as Dr.
George Mackaness did. in “Poets of
Australia,” and the result will be a
muddle; you can leave everybody out,
as H. M. Green did—and then, though
you have gone as far back as Brennan,
you have to call your book Modern
Australian Poetry.” Or, as Judith
Wright has done, you can plunge
courageously into the mass of poetiy
written in this country since William
Charles Wentworth first uttered the
ominous cry of “Celestial poesy! ’
and try to sort it out.
Personally I am inclined to think
it is an outrageous and impossible task.
You are obliged seriously and patiently
to consider the works of such formid-
able rhymesters as O’Dowd and
Baylebridge, whom I prefer to con-
template from a very long distance.
And you are to a certain extent obliged,
since you cannot restrict yourself to
the half-dozen or so assured immortals,
and since you have only 150 years of
poetry to work on instead of England’s
long centuries, to deal in false values:
preserving work which you know to be
patchy or inferior.
But the nation can hardly be robbed
of its anthologies; and so the only thing
to do with “A Book of Australian
Verse” is to see what Judith Wright
has made of it.
Her anthology replaces the Oxford
“Book of Australasian Verse” chosen
by Walter Murdoch, first published in
1918 and revised in 1945. One glance
at the list of newcomers in Judith
Wright’s volume is sufficient to indicate
how urgent was the need for revision:
Ethel Anderson, Ken Barratt, William
Baylebridge, John Blight, Francis Braba-
zon, Vincent Buckley, David Campbell,
Daniel Deniehy, James Devaney, Rose-
mary Dobson, Max Dunn, Geoffrey
Dutton, Will Dyson, Patricia Excell,
Mary Finnin, Robert D. Fitz Gerald,
Max Harris, John Henderson, Edgar
Holt, A. D. Hope, Peter Hopegood, Eric
Irvin, Nancy Keesing, Eve Langley,
James McAttley, Ronald McCuaig, Nan
McDonald, J. A. R. McKellar, Kenneth
Mackenzie, J. S. Manifold, Ray Mathew,
Charles Osborne, John Philip, Hal
Porter, John Quinn, Barrie Reid, Eliza-
beth Riddell, Roland Robinson, David
Rowbotham, Kenneth Slessor, Harold
Stewart, Val Vallis, Francis Webb and
Judith Wright.
It is a pity, especially with some
of the newcomers so doubtful, that
Judith Wright did not also’manage to
find a place for Maurice Biggs and per-
haps A. G. Austin among the war-
poets; for Wolfe Fairbridge; for Eric
Rolls’s “Death Song of a Mad Bush
Shepherd” or “Sheaf Tosser”; and,
among the newest arrivals, for Vivian
Smith.
In the most awkward problem of
deciding which of the old inhabitants
of the anthology were to be discarded
to make room for the newcomers, since
space is always limited, Judith Wright
must have been considerably helped by
the fact that New Zealanders and bush-
balladists are both now taken care of
elsewhere. But she has still felt
obliged to drop, of course as an act of
criticism as well as of mathematics,
quite a considerable list: —
Arthur Adams, Leslie H. Allen, J. Le
Gay Brereton, Fritz S. Burnell, J. D.
Burns, Ada Cambridge, C. B. Christe-
sen, Marcus Clarke, Elsie Cole, Robert
Crawford, Zora Cross, James L. Cuth-
bertson (the C’s do seem to have got it
in the neck), Victor Daley, Enid Derham,
Louis Esson, G. Essex Evans, M. For-
rest, Adam Lindsay Gordon, Paul
Grano, H. M. Green, Lesbia Harford,
James Hebbleth waite, Thomas Heney,
Flexmore Hudson, Sydney Jephcott,
Arthur W. Jose, Louis Lavater, R. H.
Long, Louise Mack, Dorothea Mac-
kellar, Dorothy McCrae, James Michael,
Patrick Moloney, Elliott Napier, Freder-
ick Ophel, Dowell O’Reilly, Nettie and
Vance Palmer, Sir Henry Parkes, Isabel
Maude Peacock, Marie E. J. Pitt, Rich-
ard Rowe, A. G. Stephens, Brunton
Stephens, Archibald T. Strong, Ethel
Turner, W. C. Wentworth, Frank S.
Williamson and David McKee Wright.
I dare say there will be a deputation
of outraged ghosts (and others) to
North Tamborine over some of these
omissions. Yet it must be admitted
that, along with some perfectly respect-
able minor writers, and others who are
interesting in their period, Judith
Wright has got rid of a lot of the fusti-
ness of the old anthology. On the
whole —never really having been able
to find a poem of Victor Daley’s that
came firmly out of its period, as I am
glad to see that Roderic Quinn’s “The
Fisher” still does—my own protests
would be chiefly on behalf of Gordon,
Dorothea Mackellar and Louis Esson:
you really can’t leave Adam Lindsay
Gordon out of a national anthology,
and A. G. Stephens had much to say
for him.
Dorothea Mackellar’s “I love a sun-
burnt country” may be popular verse,
but it has reason to be; and there were
some charming sluip-children from
Woolloomooloo skipping about Sydney
Domain in another of her poems. As
for Louis Esson, granted that his bush
characters seem slightly artificial, I still
do not see how a representative Aus-
tralian anthology could possibly leave
out verses at once so charming and so
Australian as “The Old Black Billy
an’ Me” and “The Shearer’s Wife”:—
The moon is lonely in the sky,
Lonely the bush, an’ lonely I
Stare down the track no horse draws
nigh
An’ start ... at the cattle bells.
Then there is the problem of
Kendall; reduced here like Bernard
O’Dowd (a case I am not prepared to
argue) to a single poem: merely a
sonnet wistfully recalling his ambitions.
Everything Judith Wright says about
Kendall in her foreword must be
admitted: —
His sensibility degenerated too
often into sentimental over-sweet-
ness ; his lyricism became diffuse
and flabby, his line loosened
disastrously under Swinburne’s later
influence . . .
and yet, under all the (ill-handled)
Swinburnian technique, his “Beyond
Kerguelen” remains as forceful as Roy
Campbell’s “Tristan da Cunha” (which
Campbell has admitted it inspired);
and I think we shall just have to
swallow the facility of “Bellbirds ’
for the sake of that unforgettable
opening-couplet:—
By channels of coolness the echoes
are calling,
And down the dim gorges I hear the
creek falling.
Seeing that so strict a view has been
taken of Australian poetry, it might be
thought that writers who have managed
to survive from the 1945 to the 1956
anthologies must be the very founda-
tion-stones 6f our culture. Some of
them are: the most pleasing thing
about the book is to realise how firmly
Harpur, Brennan, Shaw Neilson and
McCrae have weathered the years. But
anthologies are chancy things, and the
list of survivors is pretty mixed:—
Barcroft Boake, Brennan, “E,” Wil-
liam Gay, Leon Gellert, Mary Gilmore,
Harpur, William Hart-Smith, Kendall
(just), Henry Lawson (an unexpected
relic of the balladists), McCrae, Furnley
Maurice, E. G. Moll, lan Mudie, Shaw
Neilson, O’Dowd, James Picot, Roderic
Quinn and John Thompson.
Judith Wright’s general explanation
for her omissions and inclusions is that
she has designed the anthology to give
“a sketch of Australian poetry up to
the present day which shall yet be a
selection of reasonably satisfying
poems.”
Taking introduction and contents
together, she has succeeded on the
\ hoi' i both these aims: for you do
rly the development of Aus-
tralian poetry from Harpur to Fitz-
Gerald, and though there are many
individual selections I would query
(surely it should be “Heat” and “Fairy-
tale,” amongst others, for Kenneth
Mackenzie; “Harry Pearce” and
“Ariel” for David Campbell; “Detail
from an Annunciation by Crivelli” and
“Child with a Cockatoo” as well as
the delightful “Devil and the Angel
from Rosemary Dobson), and though
.many of her moderns will obviously
never survive the next revision, the
general standard of the verse is far
higher than ever before. It is a careful,
thoughtful anthology; and a creditable
one.
There are, however, two points in
the introduction where I think Judith
Wright is misleading. One is the
picture of McCrae as “influenced by
Norman Lindsay” and representing “a
temporary reaction against the task of
interpreting Australia.” McCrae and
Norman Lindsay, each influencing the
other and both influenced by the spirit
of the times, should be seen not as
selfconsciously reacting- against a
“task” but as pillars of a’kind of Aus-
tralian Renaissance, bringing the
mythology of the ancient world to
Australia much as the Elizabethans
brought it to England, and directly
participating*, though they worked in
symbol rather than realism, in the
general Australian emergence of the
’Nineties. If they dealt in sex rather
than in politics they were no less in
revolt against Victorianism than were
Henry Lawson and Tom Collins.
The other point is Judith Wright’s
conclusion, where she says that “little
poetry of consequence has emerged
since the end of the war,” and that, to
summarise, we should have more poetry
about the atomic bomb. I do not think
a period in which we have had both
“This Night’s Orbit” and “Between
Two Tides” from Fitz Gerald—as well
as new books from Rosemary Dobson,
Judith Wright herself, Roland Robin-'
son, Nancy Keesing, Ray Mathew and
A. D. Hope; to name a few that come
to mind —can reasonably be said to
be in decline; and, though it is as well
that, as Fitz Gerald said in his war-
sonnet, “the heart should speak out”
for humanity on the proper occasions,
poetry’s best counter to destruction is
the creation of life: from which point
of view one lyric by Shaw Neilson is
worth more than all the outcries about
the atomic bomb ever uttered.
This demand for “crisis” poetry has
undoubtedly affected Judith Wright’s
selection. If the keynote of the earlier
collection was Arthur Adams’s awful
ejaculation
Once more this Autumn-earth is
ripe,
Parturient of another type,
the keynotes now are war, the bomb
and eternity. You see it, for example,
in the choice of Nan McDonald’s “Wet
Summer, Botanic Gardens,” with its
“season of the world’s despair,” instead
of the much stronger poems “The
White Eagle” or “Candles”; or in the
choice of Fitz Gerald’s unimportant
“Traditional Tune,” presumably for its
concluding image about a falling star.
But this personal element in the selec-
tion is offset by the choice, also
personal, of many beautiful and tender
love-lyrics, such as David Campbell’s
“Heart of Light” and Hugh McCrae’s
ever-enchanting
Safe in the house with my boyhood’s
love
And our children asleep in the attic
above.
D.S.
Dylan Thomas
A phrase attributed to Milton, that
the poet should u live a poem,” has
always haunted a reviewer too lazy to
explore its context: if Milton meant
that his own life was a poem you can
tell that to Mr. Robert Graves; but it
is in this sense that the life of Dylan
Thomas, as one finds it in Dylan
Thomas in America, by John Malcolm
Brinnin (Dent), was a poem: a thing of
tension, constant excitement and sur-
prise, drawn to a unity by beer.
Nor was Dylan Thomas a mere week-
end poet; he was an all-the-week,
every-day and hour-by-hour practi-
tioner; and where other men might
achieve lost weekends, he had infinitely
more to lose. Yet he did not lose: the
peak of the gigantic pub-crawl in which
Mr. Brinnin follows him devotedly all
over America and in London and
Wales, is the first production by the
Poetry Centre in New York of “Under
Milk" Wood”; thereafter, American
applause for his poetry-readings grow-
ing louder than ever, Stravinsky send-
ing for him and suggesting that he
write a libretto for an opera, Thomas
falls more and more in love with death,
and, the worried brain having at last
deposited its load, he deliberately refills
it with alcohol from 18 whiskies drunk
in succession, going in a day or so into
a coma from which he never returns.
That is a short version of a book
which is probably the finest drinking-
record ever made. For three years, with
several intermissions, Mr. Brinnin prac-
tically gets Thomas out of bed every
morning or afternoon and puts him to
sleep again every afternoon or morn-
ing: follows him patiently into every
pub on whatever way he is going;
enumerates his friends and acquaint-
ances and, with surprising freedom, his
loves; dines with him on those nights
when, before poetry-readings, Thomas
drinks a little less and grows moody
and depressed; and goes on with him
after the readings to the parties where
Thomas makes practical and violent
love on sight to any beautiful guest
who takes his fancy; joins him on those
trips by aeroplane to give poetry-
readings at universities and colleges at
which, drunk or sober, he only once
failed to arrive; reports the effects of
his four-letter conversations and out-
rageous stories on professorial gentle-
men gathered to do him honor, and
the unobtrusive bodyguards provided
at girls’. colleges after the. time when
Thomas imagined that the students of
one of them, lying about in short shorts
and tight sweaters in tribute to the
Muse of poetry, were not there for
display-purposes only.
Mr. Brinnin was responsible for
Thomas’s trips to America; his “first
act” when he was made director of the
Poetry Centre of the Young Men’s and
Young Women’s Hebrew Association
in New York was to write to Thomas;
andi even when he saw what he had
taken-on he kept his bargain. Through-
out this book there will be found no
horror or condemnation of Thomas’s
drinking; the most he does is to try to
explain it:. Thomas drank because of
feelings of guilt, and they snowballed.
At the same time, there is nothing of
the cynical amusement that a certain
type of hanger-on or spectator derives
from the antics of a drinker-of-genius.
Few can play the part of faithful
attendant without seeming prim or
foolish in that brilliant atmosphere or
against that background of uncon-
trollable vomiting, and it is surprising
that Mr. Brinnin did not give it away
long before Thomas’s death. But the
only lack of sympathy here is for the
poet’s wife, Caitlin: her vehement
efforts to assert herself, her helpful
urging of Thomas, before a New York
poetry-reading, to remember that they
(the audience) were “only dirt,” her
wild wrestling and hair-pullings with
him in their Welsh home, raise an eye-
brow that remains unmoved through-
out much, much darker chapters of
Thomas’s extra-marital life. There has
never been any. justice for poets’ wives;
there should be a law against poets
marrying. _
But suppose Brinnin’s patience with
Thomas had been the patience of the
orehardist watching the ripening prize
plum, then how well it was justified
may be found in his account of the
frenzy of rehearsals for the first per-
formance of “Under Milk Wood’ ;
Thomas, under the constant pressure of
Brinnin’s assistant, Liz, still writing
parts of the play and handing them
to two typists in attendance at 7.30
with the performance due at 8.40: —
.... in those last minutes he de-
vised a tentative conclusion that
would serve. Twenty minutes before
curtain time fragments of “Under
Milk Wood” were still being handed
to the actors as they applied make-
up, read their telegrams and tested
their new accents on one another.
Some lines of dialogue did not
actually come into the hands of the
readers until they were already
taking their places on stage.
It was peculiarly Brinnin’s success; he
(i Continued on page 35)


*
Ik
it
Bl
1
1
i I
r-v-■
■ ■ ,
First release at Anthony Horderns 9
and exclusive to us in Sydney Central
“Clan McGregor” tan sports side derby with
stitched cap, storm welt, double soles and heels.
Fractional fittings, sizes 5 to 11. Price 121/6.
Anthony Horderns 9 are proud
to add still another world-famous name
to already the biggest range of men’s
footwear brands in Australia. “SAXONE”
Scottish-styled shoes are craftsman
built with the same attention to fine
detail, scientific fit and modern styling
as the originals. Every pair of “Saxone”
shoes made in Australia reflects the
tradition of 100 years of fine Scottish
shoemaking. “SAXONE” superb quality men’s shoes are
built for Instant comfort, no breaking-in. 15 styles
cr\ for business and casual wear.
V) "fSM
1 s\ \"ii\ nn
j y/ **
s/ / /!
!i| V/ />.
J.KVvi
j a
a
mM A
\i il!
tf -
riv-fr Ai-
S-
-
■till
jpsßfe
m
I - w
Pr\'.
I
■ Mi
n,
-
■
&
St
HH
;
TOWNSMAN
. . i:
■■■■
■
UK
y
H
FLEET-STREETER
-*3
§!
S LA!
STRAND”
CAMERON”
BOWLS-MASTER”
*‘Townsman” smart Oxford shoe, with stitched cap. In black or tan
calf. Fractional fittings iii sizes 5 to 11. Priced at 107/6 per pair.
“Strand” plain vamp five-hole tie, in black or tan calf. Ideal for
business or evening wear. Fractional fittings C to EE, 5-11. 107/6 pair
“Cameron” brogue. Double-decker soles and heels. Black, tan calf.
124/6. Moulded rubber soles, heels, 124/6; rubber, sole, screw-in
spikes, 136/-.
“Bowls-Master,” the latest in bowls shoes, features the new light-
weight wedged Microcell soles. Tan calf. 2-hole tie plain front. 121 /6
“Fleet-Streetfer,” featuring the comfortable Microcell sole. Crushed
grain calf in fawn and rich brown'; also tan or black calf,with leather
soles and heels. Fractional fittings, sizes s*ll. Priced at 121/6 pair.
"TRUTH IN. ADVERTISING'
Horderns’
80951
BOX 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE B 0951 FOR SERVICE


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3993
Wednesday, August 22, 1936
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
WHEN PARLIAMENT MEETS
COMPLEX problems, some old, some new, will
confront the Federal Government when it faces
Parliament for the Budget session next week. In
many ways it won’t be the same Parliament that
went into recess at the end of June. For one thing,
there’ll be a new Senate, in which the Government
will lack a majority and will be dependent on the
favor of the two Anti-Communist “Labor”
Senators Cole and McManus.
A tenuous grip on the Senate is no novelty;
under the present set-up anything more than a
narrow majority is impossible. But in the new
Senate the Government benches and the Opposition
benches will each have 30 occupants which, on
paper, means an unworkable House, since the Con-
stitution provides that when the voting is equal
the motion k shall be deemed defeated. The
Government’s comfort is the knowledge that two
of the nominal Opposition, for the moment, hate
the official Opposition more than they hate the
Government.
Cole and McManus appear to be sitting pretty,
but their real power isn’t as great as it seems.
There will probably be occasions when the Govern-
ment will be defeated in the Senate. That will be
nothing new, either;- it was twice defeated in the
last session by defection of its own members. But
the Government would be wise not to treat too
seriously the possibility of the Anti-Corns, combin-
ing with Evatt “Labor” with sufficient vehemence
to force a double-dissolution. Cole has three years
of his Senate term to run, McManus six. Neither
could bank heavily on retaining his seat at an
election without a horse-deal with the A.L.P. and,
in the case of McManus, that would mean
persuading one of the present five Victorian
“Labor” Senators to stand down in his favor. In
any case, the condition of possible deadlock has
been temporarily postponed by the serious illness of
“Labor” Senator Devlin. Assuming the Victorian
Government has appointed Senator Spicer’s
successor by the time Parliament reassembles the
absence of Devlin will give the Government an
overall majority of one for at least a few weeks —
which should cover the critical period of the Budget
debate.
The Representatives, too, will be a changed
House from the fact that two of its most forceful
personalities will be missing. Archie Cameron’s
rugged visage will no longer face members from
the Speaker’s chair, and Eric Harrison won’t be
there to move the gag. The first task of the House
will be to choose a new Speaker —most likely
McLeay or Timson —and among his first duties
will be the fixing of a date for by-elections in
Barker (S.A.) and Wentworth (N.S.W.). Neither
poll is likely to affect party-strengths; both
Cameron and Harrison won by several thousand
votes last December.
There will also have to be a reshuffle in
Cabinet. Senator O’Sullivan has been temporarily
appointed Attorney-General in succession to
Senator Spicer, whose appointment as Chief Judge
of the new Commonwealth Industrial Court only
a few weeks after he had steered through the
Senate the bill creating it is likely to bring the
Government some torrid criticism inside Parlia-
ment as it has already outside. Senator Spicer may
have all the qualities that go to the making of an
excellent judge, but he starts off under the terrific
handicap of having to wear the label of a political
appointment. With Jos Francis and Percy Spender
in Washington and Eric Harrison in London, it
begins to look as if the only way, short of dying,
that a man can get out of a Menzies Cabinet is by
appointment to a big job. Earle Page is the remark-
able exception.
Defence Production, the portfolio held by Eric
Harrison, can surely be dispensed with in the
reshuffle; the justification for five Defence Ministers,
plus a Minister for Supply, on any other grounds
than the necessity for reconciling the rival claims of
six States and two Government parties has been
one of the mysteries of the present Federal
Cabinet.
A successor to Harrison as Deputy-leader of
the Liberal party (and probably as Leader of the
Government in the House) will have to be found.
Choice seems* to lie between Casey and Holt.
Fadden’s Budget preparations have been
attended by the usual quota of advice from
interested parties and have been made more
difficult than usual by uncertainty over wage-policy
at home and the Suez crisis abroad. Reports-that
the Treasurer has instructed all departments to
prune their estimates severely are welcome, but
must be received with a certain amount of
scepticism. Too often similar reports have raised
unjustified optimism in those who don’t realise that
a Government department’s idea of cutting
expenditure means adding twenty per cent, to last
year’s costs and then lopping five per cent, off the
new figure. Twelve months ago the Treasurer
said that the current need was for restraint “on
the part of the banking-system, on the part of
business, on the part of everyone who has money to
spend.”
If the need is for restraint in spending then the
field that offers the greatest scope of restraint is the
one in which the spending is on' the most lavish
scale—the field of Government-spending, State and
Federal. So far there has been no sign of any real
attempt to set the example in restraint. In the
Federal sphere the limit in restraint seems to have
been the postponement for six months of the matter
of raising Parliamentary salaries and then accept-
ing the increase shortly after swingeing increases in
taxation had been announced in the “little
Budget.” Possibly the idea in accepting the
increases was that, with more money to spend,
the M.P.s would have greater scope for exercising
the restraint urged by the Treasurer.
Suggestions from Dr. Evatt and his Opposition
in the matter of restraint in spending are likely to be
limited, as in the past, to urging cuts in defence-
expenditure, at the same time indicating various
alternative means of getting rid of the money so
saved and a lot more besides. Defence-votes will
certainly be under fire in the Budget debate,
particularly in view of the Public Accounts
Committee’s revelation of unspent balances and of
Defence Secretary Shedden’s remarks on unpre-
paredness. In regard to both these items the fact
that all three Services are below establishment-
strength through manpower difficulties must be
considered. The Suez crisis, too, may necessitate
a drastic revidw of defence requirements.
The political nature of the Australian economy
was shown by the deadlock which ended the con-
ference of the Commonwealth Treasurer and State
Premiers on the national wages and inflation
problem. The Premier of the principal State in the
Commonwealth (Mr. Cahill, of N.S.W.) took his
anticipated A.L.P. doctrinaire stand, and refused to
acknowledge that too much paid in wages for too
little done was the chief cause of inflation in the
country. But Liberal State Premiers weren’t much
better. There was a pettiness about the States’
approach generally that shows a lack of under-
standing of the national nature of Australia’s
problems.
Canada Shows Us How
AUSTRALIANS who have lately been confronted
with a mass ,df problems arising out of high costs,
low productivity, increasing imports and falling
export-prices were in some cases interviewed by the
Gallup-poll people and quizzed with questions on
Canada. “When asked the population of Canada,”
the Gallup people reported, “every second Aus-
tralian couldn’t even guess. Only one in eight got
within two million of the correct figure of nearly
16 million.” And only 36 per cent, knew that
Ottawa was the capital of the Dominion.
Yet Canada deserves a lot of study by
Australians. Even if it never does much good in
the Davis Cup, Canada can show Australia the
way in many other respects. To get right to the
point, its economy is not subject to the hot-and-
cold fever that has been characteristic of Aus-
tralian affairs ever since the end of the war. And
the opinion was recently expressed that no country
has ever witnessed the development that Canadians
have seen during the past 15 years.
Treasurer Fadden and the Premiers who last
week returned from their abortive conference in
Canberra on the present inflationary crisis in Aus-
tralia might consider these words of Canadian
Minister of Trade and Commerce C. D. Howe,
delivered in a speech in the House of Commons,
Ottawa, as recently as July 9: “We have a great
country in Canada. It has been developing in a
way that is marvelled at by other countries in the
world. I am happy to find that each year shows
a pyramiding of that development.”
At the present time, though Canada is import-
ing more than it is exporting, it has no balance-
of-payments problem such as Australia has. So
great is the confidence of other countries in Canada,
notably the United States and Britain, that the
large deficit on current account which has been
recorded is more than offset by the inflow of
foreign capital. There has been, in fact, some
Canadian resentment at the amount of United
States capital which has been crossing the border
and going into new Canadian industries.
But, as “The Bulletin” has told Aus-
tralians before, the best way to attract capital from
other countries is to create as much as possible of
it yourself. In other words, to produce as much
as possible from existing resources and to turn back
as much as possible of that output so as to build
new reproductive industry. Mr. Howe has been
able to report: “As the result of a balanced
economic growth, financed largely by Canadian
savings but assisted materially in certain key
industries by foreign capital, know-how and
enterprise, Canadians have enjoyed the benefit
of prosperity unparalleled in the history of the
country. Jobs are more plentiful, incomes are
higher, and so are living-standards.”
A large proportion of the Canadian earnings
of foreign investors is reinvested in Canadian
development. In any case, Canada’s economy has
been expanding at such a rapid rate that the role of
foreign investment in relation to the country’s
productive capacity has diminished, and is continu-
ing to do so. Canadian investment predominates.
Between 1946 and 1953 capital-expenditure in
Canada amounted to over $30,000 million.
Recently about a quarter of the national income
has been absorbed by outlay on durable assets,
and this year the figure looks like being a record.
When, recently, the Australian proportion
approached that of Canada, the strain on our
capital resources prompted widespread financial
restrictions.
Canada, of course, has natural and
geographical advantages so far denied to Aus-
tralia. It has found phenomenal oil and natural-
gas reserves since the end of World War 11, and its
proximity to the United States has always been an
industrial advantage. It has enormous hydro-
electric power, and its mineral development since
the war has been extraordinary. Furthermore, it
did not have to mobilise so many of its citizens
for active service as Australia had to during the
last war, Australia being more directly menaced
by invasion. Manufacturing war-materials gave
Canadian industry a boost, as it did to a smaller
degree in Australia. Australian transport and other
facilities, too, during the war took an awful
hammering from the overloading by Australian
and U.S. forces.
But, whatever good fortune has smiled on
Canada during the past decade or so, the remark-
able thing is that it has not caused the country to
become industrially or economically unstable, as
has been the case in Australia. The average hours of
labor in Canada, excluding overtime, are still above
40 a week. And though, since June, 1945,
Canadian money-wages have risen by 100 p.c., Aus-
tralian wages have soared by 163 p.c. The cost-
of-living in Australia has risen in corresponding
disproportion.
In other words, if Canada has had more good
fortune than Australia, it has allowed it to go less
to its head than Australia has. And it has
capitalised on its advantages in a sensible and
businesslike way.
One out of every four employed Canadians
works in a manufacturing industry, and one out of
every three dollars of the national income comes
from secondary industry. In terms of output per
person employed, Canada is second only to the
United States. That is a truly wonderful achieve-
ment for a country with only a tenth of the popula-
tion of the U.S.A. and a third of that of the United
Kingdom.
Canada, in the circumstances, speaks quite
confidently about its imports, even though at
present they exceed its exports. In the current
year to date, imports have been coming in at a
rate about a third above those for 1955. “With very
few exceptions,” said the Minister of Trade last
month, “activity in Canadian secondary manufac-
turing industries is now running well ahead of
1954 levels. These considerations suggest that in
the circumstances now prevailing in Canada a
rapid rise in imports is not to be deplored. On the
contrary, it is highly desirable. In the first place,
it helps to speed industrial expansion while market
opportunities are still present. Second, it helps to
ease the pressure on domestic resources and thereby
prevents inflationary tendencies and unhealthy
speculative excesses which might benefit individual
groups, but would react to the disadvantage of the
community at large.”
Only a country that is virile and economically
uninhibited could speak with such confidence as
that about an adverse trade-balance!
There is much in Canada’s story for Aus-
tralians to ponder over. Its natural resources are
different from ours, and it has a hard climate
compared with ours. But, 'above all things, it has
tackled the job of development in a much more
businesslike way than we have. It is interested in
organised work rather than organised trade-union
loaf. Out of a work-force of five-and-a-half
million, only 1,250,000 belong to trade-unions in
Canada, though Federal and provincial legislation
sets standards for hours worked, wages, and other
conditions of employment. And conflict between
Federal powers and provincial interests has never
been allowed to bog-down the whole economy, as
Is hannenine in Australia at this very moment.


“HOLY WAR”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Real Issue Was Evaded
The collapse of the Premiers’ conference
on inflation after the States and Com-
monwealth had failed to reach agreement
on a uniform wages-policy had been
almost a certainty from the first.
The “Labor” Premiers, especially the
vocal Mr. Cahill, came to play politics.
They were obviously not prepared to
accept any scheme (a) for which “Labor”
could not claim the credit, along with a
triumph over the Federal Government
which they could use for political
advantage, or ( b ) which did not impose
controls which would bring socialisation
a little nearer.
Their claims that the abandonment of
quarterly adjustments had not steadied
the rise of the cost of living was certainly
not borne out by facts. As a corres-
pondent in the Sydney “Herald” pointed
out, c. 0.1. had risen about, £3 3s. in
N. S. Wales in three years during which
wages and prices were spiralling before
the “freezing” action of the Arbitration
Court, whereas in the three years after
the court acted in 1953 the rise was only
10s. And then margins and the State’s
restoration of the old, evil/ practices
started the spiral again. Last quarter it
went up 75., and it promises to be more
in the current one.
Mr. Bolte, who seemed oddly at vari-
ance in his views with those expressed
previously by his own Cabinet members,
was prepared to give the abandonment
of the quarterly increases a fly and
concede powers to the Commonwealth if
the Commonwealth would give him
£5,000,000 to enable him to keep down
State service-charges to the public. Even
if the Commonwealth had been ready to
accede to this suggestion, it would have
been difficult to implement in practice,
since Messrs. Cahill, Gair and the rest
would have broken legs in the rush to
get enough to tide them over their
difficulties.
Mr. Playford’s view was more sane.
His view seems to be that the way to
evade quarterly rises is to avoid creating
a basis for them. He pointed out that
about half the cost-of-living rises on
which the State quarterly adjustments
are made is accounted for by increases
in meat and potato prices, which he
thinks may be overcome by organisation.
His view is perhaps rational in a State
which is soberly and economically
governed. But his attitude doesn’t
help the situation or bring uni-
formity of action nearer, any more
than does the Commonwealth’s some-
what desultory approach to the whole
problem. Especially since he is not pre-
pared to trust to the Commonwealth
power to deal with the situation.
While immigration, import-licences,
cost of services, taxation, defence and
public works and civil-service adminis-
tration all came in for discussion as
factors in small or great degree, the real
issue was not, apparently, much or
adequately stressed. These are con-
cerned not with the artificial level of
wages, but with the real level; with the
production-cost of goods and services.
This is a fact which both Commonwealth
and State Premiers seem determined not
to face. Yet it is basically the only issue.
Wages are far higher in the United States
than here. The standard of living of the
worker there is higher considerably than
here. Leisure is scarcely more restricted.
But the U.S. worker is prepared to work
reasonably hard. His man-hour output
is higher than in Australia. His unions
have not been welded into a vast pressure-
group dedicated to a Russianised form
of socialisation through political action.
Mr. C. E. S. Hughes, of the A.B.C.
News Service, who visited the United
States in 1952 to study labor conditions,
quoted president Philip Murray of the
U.S. Steel Workers as saying: “Fight
your employers fairly for what you think
you are entitled to have from them, but
never do anything to harm the land you
live in.” Mr. Hughes summed-up the
U.S. industrial workers’ performance and
attitude:
They make things faster and make more
of those things than anyone else in the •
world, and they’re proud of it They earn
enough to enjoy the fruits of their labor.
They have a- willingness to work that is
quickly evident behind the counter of every
shop, in every cafe, restaurant, factory,
plant and workshop There’s no need for v
any slave-driving employer hovering around '
to see the work is done It’s just part of
the natural make-up of people who have
built a great nation in a few hundred years.
By contrast, Australian workers are
taught by “economists” like Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Healy of the Watersiders, who
draw their inspiration from Moscow, that
they can make the sky the limit in their
demands for wages because there is an
inexhaustible fountain of “extortionate
profits” waiting to be tapped, and that
it does not affect the economy if they
work less for the additional money. The
A.R.U. at a moment when its State
employers are near bankruptcy is
demanding a 30-hour week and a £3O-a-
-week basic wage—the equivalent of £4O
a week for a 40-hour week —and some
paralysing go-slow concessions. It is
being taught that if, in process of reach-
ing ideals like that .represented by this
application to the court, prices rise the
situation can be dealt with through a little
bureaucratic price-control.
All that has so far been achieved by
the policy is a general rise in the cost
of production which is freezing Aus-
tralia out of the world’s competitive
export markets and raising the cost of
living to the skies.
The Limit Reached
Mr. Menzies has helped to stiffen the
West against Colonel Nasser’s Hitlerite
policy in dealing with the Suez Canal and
in cutting-away the confusion born of
the ability of every long-hair and every
Russian agent in the free countries to
join in the argument and confuse the
issue.
He went to the heart of the matter when
he asked why, if Egypt was legally
correct in its action and no international
agreement could stand in the way of
its sovereign rights, it was worth while
to have any international agreements at
all?
The plain facts, legally, have been
equally clearly stated by Lord Hailsham,
former Chief Justice of England, who
wrote in “The Times”:
I know of no authority which justifies
unreservedly in international law the ex-
propriation, under color of nationalisation,
of the assets of foreign nationals, without
qualification and as an act of policy.... 1
Whatever may be true of nationalisation,
we are not dealing with nationalisation
properly so-called in connection with
Colonel Nasser’s coup de main. We are
dealing with seizure by force at the point
of the bayonet, and a compulsion of
foreign nationals to serve a dictator who
conscripted them. into his service without
the option of withdrawal of their labor.
This is sheer lawlessness, for which I can
conceive of no justification in international
law whatever.
The plan of the three nations which
was placed before the 24 - nations
conference at thp weekend envisaged that
the existing canal company be liquidated,
the shares being bought by an inter-
national authority (on which Egypt would
have representation) which would be
associated with U.N.O. and would pro-
vide no profits for private individuals.
Egypt’s physical ownership of and
sovereignty over the canal would be
recognised and a fair rent would be paid
for its use. Any differences on Egypt’s
right to a return or the company’s right
to compensation would be settled by the
International Court.
Russia as well as Egypt proved a
stumbling-block. As at U.N.0., Moscow
sought to import into the debates every
Communist satellite and “nation” in the
Arab region, along with Red China. It
seems clear from a perusal of the
Moscow press and its build-up of the
situation over the past two months that
the Kremlin was probably the instigator
of the whole incident and that its back-
ing of the Egyptian Hitler—who models
his deportment, his procedure and
his language on those of the late-lamented
owner of Berchtesgaden—in his adven-
ture is for its own carefully designed
purposes.
Shepilov announced grimly to the con-
ference that “attempts to force plans on
Egypt for international operation of the
canal would mean violation of peace in
the Near and Middle East,” adding:
One cannot fail to see that such violation
would not be limited to a local conflict in
the area of the Suez Canal. It can flame
into a large conflict which would cover the
area of the Near and Middle East and
possibly go outside those limits.
To warn the West against using force,
in view of the fact that the canal has
been seized illegally by Nasser at bayonet-
point and with the most belligerent
threats, is about the limit of hypocrisy.
The speech sounded almost as if Russia
were attempting to pave the way for an
aggressive grab of the Middle and Near
Eastern zone, including the oilfields and
the canal, a move which was in the
Russian Government’s mind and which
it actually tried to arrange with Hitler in
1940.
It is a threat under which the civilised
world can’t knuckle-down' without losing
all it stands for. It would involve abso-
lute and utter surrender to the Com-
munist bloc, complete abrogation of
every principle on which international
relationships are based. It would mean,
as Lord Hailsham suggests, that all inter-
national treaties would become meaning-
less. Panama could seize the Panama
Canal, which it did not build and has
never operated. Debts in the inter-
national field could be repudiated at will
—already Indonesia has followed Nasser’s
bad example and, using his type of
language as justification, has repudiated
its financial agreements with the Nether-
lands.
The Sudan could break its treaty not
to interfere with the waters of the Nile
and could starve Egypt if it so desired.
All other treaties could be torn-up along
with the whole fabric of international
law if the London Conference agrees to
the legality of Nasser’s action and allows
him and the Kremlin to get away with
it. But it can’t. The limit of surrender
has been reached.
A Melbourne Centenary
Melbourne University brought off its
centenary celebrations last week with
colorful, dignified and appealing
ceremonies ; an earnest appreciation of
current and future university objectives by
Sir lan Clunies Ross, delivering the
Centenary Oration; dinners and do’s;
the conferring of honorary degrees on 15
of the 'more-and-less distinguished
delegates representing Australian and
overseas universities; and official
welcomes.
All that the great majority of Victorians
knew or heard about these events was
what they read in the newspapers or heard
in scrappy phrases on the radio. Most
of the gatherings were at Wilson Hall at
the University, and public participation
did not exist.
The University’s public relations in one
direction is excellent. It is handled by
sound newspapermen-graduates in an
enthusiastic, honorary way, and, of
course, they pull the ropes they know best
—in newspaper-space; but there was ho
actual contact with the public, not one
gathering to which the public was invited
or one taken to the public.
The 98 delegates could have been
welcomed at the Town Hall. The
ceremony in the environs and at Wilson
Hall was brilliant theatre, and its relega-
tion to the cloistered sanctum away from
vulgar stares of the populace was a prize
instance of the precious attitude of almost
all academicians to the value of contact
with Tom, Dick and Harry.
Just now the University is cock-a-hoop
with the success of its £250,000 centenary
appeal; but that won’t last long, and Tom
and his cobbers, ignored on this occasion,
might prove difficult next time.
The New Little
“Collins Street” : Melbourne Little
Theatre, which was producing superior,
first-run plays in the depression when
Williamson’s were showing second-run
movies, opens its new theatre at the
weekend, when the Lieut.-Govemor, Sir
Edmund Herring, rolls up the curtain
on the Giraudoux-cwm-Fry comedy,
“Tiger at the Gates.” It is the first new
theatre in Melbourne for 25 years.
It will seat 404, all on one floor, each
row 6in. higher than the other, and 12in.
wider-apart than most theatre-seats. It
has a full-size stage, heating, buffet and
adequate dressing-rooms, a convenience
the talented players in 201 productions in
22 years in the old playhouse—it was
originally Christ Church’s South Yarra
“Chapel of Ease” —will appreciate.
Two hundred seats have been donated ;
£4300 for furnishings was raised by a
foyer fund; yet the estimated cost of
£35,000 has worked out at more than
£50,000. Satisfied patrons put up
£25,000 in debentures almost as soon as
they were asked, but they were probably
more concerned about getting a com-
fortable theatre than pocketing their
six per cent.
At the invitation of Brett Randall, the
surviving one of the two co-founders, I
had a look over the showplace a day or
two ago, while carpenters, electricians,
cement-workers, upholsterers and others
—many of whom, the Little people have
been surprised to discover, are enthusi-
astic playgoers—were at it full-pelt.
It was with some anticipatory relish.
In addition to the modern comforts of
the movie palaces, architect Gordon
Murphy, who has built a number of
Hoyt’s cinemas, has contrived an
intimacy essential for modem plays. The
decor is chaste, soft and streamlined,
appropriately enough for a modern play-
house.
For years the Little had a waiting-list
of just on 1000 seeking membership, but
Brett Randall, an old showman, insisted
on some seats being kept for first-comers
from the public for each performance;
now that the list has been opened for
the new theatre subscriptions have jumped
to 5000. This will leave 300 seats for the
public at the 10 three- or four-week
seasons a year. (Between plays the
theatre will be used briefly by concert
artists.)
The Little cycle of programmes—
whether by design or not—is simple. A
prestige production i§ followed by a
comedy pot-boiler and then by a sound
play, with a meaty plot and, often, worth-
while drama; but it is also the only
theatre in the nation to have put on a
cycle of Australian plays—“ The Golden
Lover” (Douglas Stewart); “It All Takes
Time” (John Watson); and “The Harp in
the South” (Ruth Park and Leslie Rees).
Moreover, the three Little directors,
Brett and Peter Randall and Irene
Mitchell, all assure me of their unend-
ing search for sound, actable Australian
plays. The search had begun long be-
fore “The Summer of the 17th Doll”
packed the Comedy Theatre to capacity.
Who’d have thought you could raise
£50,000 in Australia for people dabbling
in quality plays and Australian plays?
But nothing succeeds like courage!
Restrictions and Trade
“Stromlo” : There is a growing volume
of informed criticism of the nature and
administration of import-restrictions of
which the Government should take heed.
Australian importers and businessmen
have felt that they are alone and almost
helpless in the face of the entrenched
bureaucracy which has taken charge, and
which makes decisions involving the life
or death of many going concerns without
any Ministerial interference beyond the
directive for reduction in the total volume
of imports to a stated figure which is
close to the safety margin. Now, how-
ever, they have been notified of powerful
allies in Britain.
The joint McEwen-Thorneycroft com-
munique on the London trade talks
contained the significant phrase: “In
particular, we have concentrated on
measures designed to help Australia’s
balance-of-payments, and thus enable
Australian quantitative import-restrictions
to be reduced.” It went on to say that
if the market for traditional Australian
exports to Britain could be increased,
this would contribute significantly to the
relaxing of Australian import-controls.
Impartial examination of the situation
and the balance-of-trade position sug-
gest that restrictions may be needed for
some time, and that, in spite of the gravely
disturbing effects on business, they may
be needed, in the words of Customs
Minister Fred Osborne, to meet “recurring
difficulties” in future. At the same time
there is scope for examination by Parlia-
ment of the methods being employed.
The volume of complaints, and their
documented nature, concerning the effects
on a large variety of businesses of the
inelastic and often ruthless policy suggest
that some new approach should be
adopted, or at least investigated, to
reassure those whose livelihoods are
being damaged or destroyed through
circumstances over which they have no
control and for which they are mostly
entirely blameless.
Political Landmark
[From Canberra]
There were some odd aspects of the
special Premiers’ Conference called in
Canberra last week to discuss the possi-
bility of a common wages-policy based
on Federal awards and N involving an
annual instead of a quarterly adjustment;
but the most remarkable was the con-
certed attempt by five of the six States to
persuade the Commonwealth some
distance along the line of controls and
restrictions, and the tacit agreement of
the Federal Government that a measure
of selective price-control, exercised by
the States and not by the Commonwealth,
might be worth trying.
There was little in the debate to
encourage belief that price-control was.
a panacea for any present evils, but the
Commonwealth apparently thought that
its gesture of offering an “experienced
officer” to each State, presumably in a
bid to secure some degree of uniformity
of control, would be justified if it
obtained in return an agreement by
N.S.W. and Victoria that they would
repeal the legislation which provides for
quarterly adjustments of the basic wage
by the State industrial tribunals. It is
history that the attempt failed.
It was another peculiar feature of the
conference that in the remaining four
States it is not mandatory on the
tribunals to make such adjustments,
although some of them have begun to do
so in view of the increasing disparity
o Continued on next page )


between the Federal levels and the price
indices. Those States, using their
unlimited sovereign powers, are all
operating a measure of price-control
with what they claim is a measure of
success, including Liberal Tom Playford,
of South Australia, whose major trouble
is the high prices of potatoes and meat
coming in from “uncontrolled” States.
N.S.W. and Victoria rejected the Com-
monwealth request, but for widely differ-
ing reasons. Cahill wanted a large
measure of price-control by either the
Commonwealth or the States, but he also
wanted a special inquiry, control of
profits, a review of immigration, aboli-
tion of payroll tax, curtailment of “lavish
Federal spending,” the summoning of
Federal Parliament and an overhaul of
import-licensing. When he was offered
the tentative Federal approval of price-
control, as evidenced by the offer of the
services of a co-ordinating Federal
official, in return for abandonment of
quarterly adjustments, he made it plain
that the bargain was unacceptable.
Bolte (Victoria), just back from his
world tour, was scornful of the sugges-
tions that the wages problem or the
general economic situation were serious,
but he enunciated, more forcibly than
the Federal spokesman, that controls
were unacceptable. The chairman, Sir
Arthur Fadden, had certainly said in
opening proceedings that “we, the Federal
Government, have no confidence in the
efficacy of direct controls over prices and
profits,” but he had admitted the possi-
bility of a role for selective price-controls
“where freedom of competition does not
have free rein.” Bolte, however, was
against price-control in his State, and
lumped together a large variety of
matters, ranging from taxes and subsidies
to the Colombo Plan, to support his claim
that Commonwealth powers were already
more than sufficient.
His plea was that he could not remove
quarterly adjustments unless he could
guarantee to wage-earners at the same
time that he would not lift fares and
freights and the charges for electricity
and gas. His price, therefore, for this
purpose was £5 million then and there
from the Commonwealth, a request
rejected out of hand by Fadden.
The alternative, Bolte said hopefully,
was restoration of State taxing-powers.
If they were returned to him he would
do what the Commonwealth asked.
Fadden hinted that the Budget might do
'some of the things which the Premiers
urged by way of checks on profits and
other matters, but his oftly offer on
import-licensing, on which Cahill was
most strongly supported by Playford,
was that the Premiers could see the
Minister for Trade or senior departmental
officials on any individual problems.
Fadden also claimed that the “Little
Budget” had gone a long way already to
drain off excess profits, and he declared
that the new Budget estimates had been
pruned^rigorously—a statement which the
Premiers seemed to doubt a little.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Yurrunga”: Thought suggested by
Cabinet’s approval of Menzies’s return to
London:
Hercules, in ancient fables,
Earned fame by cleaning out the stables
But now, methinks, the current view is,
That Bob should try his hand on Suez.
• •
“We should not run away from price-
control merely because it is unpopular,”
says Gair.. No, nor should we accept it
merely because it is popular with the
A.C.T.U.
• •
With a great show of generosity Evatt
has offered to co-operate with the Gov-
ernment to secure changes in the Consti-
tution which he considers would enable
it to combat inflation. The powers he
suggests are in the main the ones he
twice sought by referendum when
Attorney-General in Curtin-Chifley Gov-
ernments. They are also the powers
which would enable a future “Labor”
Government to fasten the Socialist
shackles on Australia.
• •
As in 1952, November’s U.S. Presi-
dential election fight will be between
Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson. At the
Democratic convention in Chicago last
week Stevenson won the nomination at
the first ballot, polling 905 votes com-
pared with 210 scored by Averell Harri-
man, his principal rival. Until a week
before the convention Stevenson seemed
to have his party’s nomination in the bag,
but ex-President Truman’s eleventh-hour
backing of Harriman aroused expecta-
tions of a close finish. These weren’t
justified. Senator Kefauver, who earlier
was a candidate for the Presidential
nomination, was chosen as Democratic
candidate for Vice-President.
• •
Following Dr. Edith Summerskill’s
discovery that Red China has banished
flies from the landscape, M.H.R.s Went-
worth ami Wheeler have found that
“there ain’t no flies on Formosa,” either.
It’s to be hoped they bring the recipe
back with them. Our summer and our
flies are only a few months away. And
does Canberra have flies! (
• •
Last American Ambassador to Egypt
was named Byroade; his successor is
Hare.
• •
At the Canberra talks Cahill said the
Premiers were practically unanimous that
quarterly adjustments were not the main
reason for Australia’s economic diffi-
culties. No sane person would suggest
they were. The adjustments are merely
an attempt to keep-up with prices. But
they do themselves contribute to the rise
in prices. Three years ago even Cahill
agreed with that. When the Federal
Arbitration Court suspended automatic
adjustments, it hoped its action would
slow down the price-spiral. It was not
expected to halt prices completely. But
unfortunately owing to the action of
State “Labor” Governments it was not
given the chance to show its effectiveness.
• •
Two factors which have contributed
largely to price-rises since 1953 have
been the margins-judgment and big rent-
increases in some States. These items,
however, were absorbed into the price-
structure months pgo. Last quarter’s
big leap in the price-index—and the big
one expected this quarter—can be put
down chiefly to the direct and indirect'
influence of State-granted quarterly
adjustments. Even the Federal ten-bob,
which will make its presence felt in the
next quarterly index, was largely a product
of the State wage-increases.
• • V
Hotel accommodation in Sydneyds to be
improved by the spending of more than
£lO million in the next two years, accord-
ing to Gus Kelly, N.S.W. Minister for
Tourist Activities. In an enthusiastic
statement on the prospect of attracting
greater numbers of tourists from abroad,
he said that some hotel-owners were
improving accommodation “to catch the
discerning tourist.” The intention is
praiseworthy, but isn’t it usually the
undiscerning tourist who gets caught?.
• •
Gair told the gathering at the Royal
National Association’s Exhibition dinner
that there were times when Parliamentary
privilege was abused but that the
infrequency of such occasions indicated
the well-developed sense of responsibility
held by the overwhelming majority of
members. He added, “Weeds will grow
in the best-kept gardens.” Especially
noogoora-burr!
• ' •
Only one other Federal Speaker has
died in office —Sir Frederick Holder, who
collapsed in the Chair during a hectic
scene in the House of Representatives,
then in Melbourne, in 1909, and died later
in his room. The next sitting was presided
over by the Clerk of the House, and a
motion of condolence was moved and
carried before the House adjourned. The
new Speaker was elected on the next sit-
ting day. In the present case, however, it
has been decided that when the House
meets on August 29 it will proceed at once
to elect the new Speaker, under the chair-
manship of the Clerk, Mr. A. Tregear.
Then, with the new Speaker presiding,
a motion of condolence with the relatives
THE SPRAGGER
“Good on you, Joe! You couldn’t have blinded them with science
more if you had been one of my own!”
of the late Archie Cameron will be moved,
after which the House will adjourn for
the day. The contest for the Speakership
is expected to be between two Liberals,
Frank Timson of Victoria and John
McLeay of S.A. '
• •
First union to file a log of claims with
the new Federal Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Commission is the Australian
Railways Union. Among other things it
seeks a base rate of £3O a week for a
five-day week of 30 hours. When N.S.W.
Railways Commissioner McCusker
opposes the application, as he must if
he doesn’t want to see his wages-bill
virtually doubled, will the Cahills instruct
him to withdraw his opposition as they
once instructed Winsor?
• •
Nasser’s views on Egypt’s international
responsibilities in respect to the Suez
Canal seem vague, to say the least. He
insists that under nationalisation he
would give ships of all nations the right
to use the canal, yet on Saturday hfe told
a press conference in Cairo that “we were
always responsible for security and
stopped Israel ships from v using the canal
even when British troops were in Egypt.”
Israel yesterday and today; who
tomorrow?
• •
Hawke says most Australians “would
almost give their right arm” for the con-
trolled economy of the Chifley-era. While
about it they might as well reach out their
legs for the leg-irons and their necks for
the halter.
• •
Temporary Federal Attorney-General,
Senator Neil O’Sullivan, is a Brisbane
lawyer who has accepted this portfolio
in addition to his Navy one only until a
successor is appointed. However, the
appointment is interesting in view of the
family associations with the law and
politics. The new A.-G.’s grandfather,
Patrick O’Sullivan, came to Australia in
the forties of last century, was active in
the movement for separation from
N.S.W., and was a member of the first
and many later Queensland Parliaments.
An uncle of Neil O’Sullivan was Mr.
Justice Thomas O’Sullivan, who was
earlier the Attorney-General in Queens-
land and was the oldest K.C. in the
Empire when he died at the age of 96.
• •
“Stromlo”: Filling JohnSSpicer’s place
in the Senate may set a problem in Vic-
toria. The Bolte Government is believed
to favor ex-Senator Magnus Cormack,
who was No. 3 on the ballot-paper last
year. There are hints that the Vic.
Country party may throw a spanner into
the works, and that the Boltes may there-
fore try to do a deal with “Labor.” This
could be a bid for “Labor” support for
Cormack on a promise that if a vacancy
occurs among Vic. “Labor” Senators, the
Government will support a “Labor”
replacement.
Official “Labor” policy is against
borrowing abroad, but Cahill’s complaint
is that Fadden isn’t borrowing enough
abroad. He says that when he asked
the Federal Government at the last Loan
Council meeting to raise money overseas
to finance a housing scheme Roland
Wilson was called in to explain the diffi-
culty of borrowing abroad. “Yet,” says
Cahill, “the same night we met at the
Hotel Canberra a businessman who said
that if we gave him the commission he
could go overseas and raise fifty-three
million dollars immediately.” But, Joe,
surely you know what these businessmen
are like!
• •
“Emtee”: News that Tasmania’s
puffing - billies finished tfie year
£1,042,629 in the red raised scarcely an
eyebrow. No one, it seems, any longer
expects a State-owned railway to pay its
way. Certainly the Tasmanian Minister
for Transport doesn’t. His comment was
that in view of the fact that it-was only
one per cent, up on last year’s deficit,
the loss was “satisfactory.”
• • .
“M.”: It was in mid-1949, at Mildura,
that Archie Cameron was asked if he
would accept nomination for the Speaker-
ship in the event of Menzies winning the
election at the end of the year. Archie,
who cherished high ambition, at once
realised the implications, and chewed the
idea over thoughtfully. Finally he said
he would agree—but on condition that
he could resign at any time, either to
accept a portfolio or for other reasons.
During his term of office he kept closely
in touch with political developments,
and was the confidant and adviser to
several “Labor” members. A few tenta-
tive moves were made to induce him to
move into the active arena again, but
they had come to nothing before his fatal
illness developed last year.
• •
Getting down to tintacks, what has the
Cahill Government to boast of? After 15
years of “Labor” rule N. S. Wales has
the lowest birthrate of all Australian
States and the highest deathrate.
• •
Gair’s cost-problems will be added to
by his obligation (to the party-executive)
to legislate for three-weeks annual-leave
for workers under State awards. Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail” understands that
this will be brought-in within the next
few weeks, and that Cabinet Ministers
believe that industry can carry the cost
without major threat to employment and
economy-measures can cushion the impact
on the Government wages-bill. It’s
strange how “Labor” Mipisters can con-
vince themselves of anything once the
party issues its edict.
Australian rural production reached
new figures last year. Record production
was recorded in wool, milk, beef and
oats and a near-record in barley. The
wheat crop was not a record, but the
yield per acre was.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AN OTHER June 30 is now well
embedded, and the balanced ledgers
are filling towards the next one.
Nowadays I work» in a small branch
with an all-male staff, and the
balance-work is just routine, but when I
was younger and worked in our biggest
branch, balance-night was a revel, not
to say an orgy. Our staff of more than
200 included 40 young ladies.
They worked in a railed-off section of
the banking-chamber under the eye of
a fearsome woman who guarded Them
like a mother hen. If one of the younger
men had work to take in to the girls, he
first had to approach this supervisor, state
his business, and then deliver the work
conscious of a gimlet eye boring a hole in
his back.
The bank clothed its women in a
garment that reduced all shapes to no
shape. Only on balance-night did the
girls emerge in their true colors; .we
would be made aware of this entrancing
metamorphosis on our return from the
tea-break: 55 minutes at the nearest
pub, five minutes for a hasty pie-and-
sauce. The girls would be scattered in
little groups all over the banking-
chamber, ready to help. All those color-
ful frocks and jumpers seemed to our
slightly foggy eyes bright summer flowers
in a winter garden.
The girls were inexperienced at ledger-
work, and we frequently . found it
necessary to give them a little help. That
would be why shoulders brushed and
heads bent close.
The girls were not the only balance-
night divertissement. The sojourn at the
pub affected those of us who were
normally pretty sober citizens. One of
my mates always expanded into a whack-
ing great cigar, and always had to bolt for
the washroom before he had smoked half
of it.
About an hour after the tea-break,
when the exhilaration ebbed, eyes would
flicker. The clatter of typewriters and the
hum of conversation on one balance-night
were drowned by the loudest snoring I
have ever heard. The accountant made
off in the direction of the tellers’ boxes,
to reappear a moment later leading a
sleepy-eyed junior by the ear.
The wonder was that we ever
balanced; but, if it took longer than it
should, that was balanced, also.
Cash Count.
❖ ♦> ♦;<
“F.”: A Sydney sergeant-of-police
alleged in Central Court that while he was
arresting a man for using indecent
language the man stole his watch.
❖ ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: New Australian names
are beginning to appear in our cemetery,
and there is something more than
ordinarily touching in the new life ending
so soon. One memorial is a little wooden
cross with the inscription painted on in
quaintly-worded English. The lad was
only “7 old.” On "one grave a tiny box
filled with sand has been placed. Partly
buried in the sand is a hen’s-egg, the
shell decorated with an emblem similar
to the cross of Lorraine. At first glance,
an egg, the symbol of birth, seems out
of place when associated with death in
such a manner, but therein may lie its
significance.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Poppa”: Querying an expression, I
learned that the loose, buttonless coats
women wear are called “clutch-coats”
because they have to hold them shut.
♦> ♦> •>
“Sparks”: Hire-purchase sales with no
deposit are increasing in Queensland
despite the State law requiring minimum
deposits. Many firms put through time-
payment goods by bill-of-sale, which
also means less control of interest-rates.
Hire-purchase customers might be more
concerned if they were told that bills-of-
sale are registered and published and
circulated in lists to various business-
houses, and that their employers or other
business-connections may be following
their credit-negotiations with interest or
advantage. If the Government is willing
to tolerate this kind of trading, it should
at least insist that customers be warned of
its lack of privacy.
♦J *X*
“Pillo”: There’s a barber in Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, advertising a
“John Landy haircut” —i.e., he promises
to cut your hair within four minutes. It
seems fast, but suppose Landy were a
pair of scissors, how many clips would his
legs make in a mile?
»> *5
“T.M.”: Glancing through a 10-year-
old’s dictation-book, I was surprised to
see the simple sentences interrupted by
pathetic scribbles of cats, houses, boats,
etc. “Won’t you be in trouble if the
teacher finds you drawing in your
exercise-books?” I asked. “Oh, no;
teacher says it helps us express ourselves,
and any time we feel like drawing instead
of writing we can.” “It’s the modern
system of education,” her mother ex-
plained. “They’ve certainly progressed
since we were at school.” Yes, we’re
catching up with the ancient Egyptians.
<■> ♦♦♦
“Moorapi”: A Melbourne solicitor
contends that alleged drunken women
"That Was this afternoon s call from the stockmarket."
drivers must submit to needless indignities
at police-stations. So far as I know, the
toughest jobs they tackle are walking a
straight line, going up a few steps, and
finding their own name in the telephone-
directory—which last would surely make
the best entertainment.
♦J*
“Hist”: Malabar Ivory, Chiltern
Cream, Crocus Cream, Manly Blue,
Shell Grey, Kilmore Grey, Cabot Grey,
Tarragon Green, Swanston Green —color-
names bestowed on sundry cars and
utilities by the manufacturers, as shown
on their invoices. Who chooses them?
Do they retain a poet? One of these days
we may be driving our Bulletin Pink
sedan!
❖ ♦>
“Nosmo”: The Commonwealth Bank
uses perforated money - bags and
-wrappers, and with good reason. Audit-
ing a country bank, I have found a length
of broom-handle in an alleged roll of
copper coins and 51b. silver-bags full of
coppers, 55.-worth of which weigh about
exactly the same as 51b. of silver.
♦> »$♦ >*♦
“Sister Ellell”: There’s another view-
point of the ’flu epidemic that’s sweeping
most States. My young nephew dashed in
from boarding-school with, “Only eight
more boys to go in the infirmary and we
have two weeks’ extra holiday!” He just
couldn’t wait!
❖ <£♦
“Dicky”: Travelling in to town by
electric-train, duly held-up at one of the
stations, my friend saw no hope of move-
ment, so, rather than waste the time, got
off and had a haircut. Barbering and
barber’s conversation completed, he re-
turned in good time to catch the same
train, just about to move.
❖ ♦> ■ ♦>
“Griff”: When a tech.-student asked
an A.B.C. panel of experts their opinion
of “semantics” the chairman put the
question and an uneasy hush ensued.
Then No. 1 said he didn’t know what
“semantics” was. No. 2 wordily dis-
approved such study ; No. 3 and No. 4,
obviously grateful for the lead, voiced
similar disapproval. Maybe the audience
of tech.-students was convinced the
experts knew what they were talking
about, but the chairman wasn’t; he
obviously knew what “semantics” was,
and disagreed, with the panel’s finding,
suggesting that a knowledge of semantics
could throw quite a bit of fight on the
answers given.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: The disaster at Amer
Coeur coalmine, one of the deepest in
Europe, near Charleroi (Belgium), reminds
me that for some months during 1919
I took my weekly ablutions in its
sumptuous bath-house at the pithead. As
orderly-room clerk of 4th Divvy
Mechanical Transport (Mobile Work-
shop), A.1.F., stationed and billeted at
near-by Marcinelle, a suburb of Charleroi
(not the other way round, as the cables
had it), I arranged the weekly bath-parade
for all hands. This mine’s tiled, h.-and-c.
bath-house and, adjacent locker-rooms
would grace the finest club; miners
entered it along a passageway from the
shaft-cages, and left it, bathed, shaved
and normally clothed, some 20 minutes
later. It was not until around 1940 that
sustained agitation by miners made
similar amenities the rule on the larger
Australian coalfields.
* «J*
“W.A.W.”: When recently-deceased
A. J. McLachlan was P.M.G. in 1938-39
Britain and New Zealand established an
“all-up” air-mail exchange for first-class
mail-matter, but Australia, an inter-
mediate on the route, obstinately per-
sisted in collecting the surcharge on out-
going articles, although it benefited by
the acceleration of incoming mail. Mac
did his best to persuade Cabinet by
preparing strong agendas supported by
statistics, but the Treasury wanted the
fees . . . McLachlan was disappointed,
and closed-off the official file by writinj
across it:
Then up the rugged mountain and down the
shady glen «
We daren’t go a’hunting for fear of little
men.
■ *X* ♦*+ $
“Peel-street”: That “thieves prefer a
challenge” was borne-out in Brisbane
recently. An owner-taxi-driver garages
his car and applies all known security-
appliances, down to a large lock and
heavy chain on the well-battened doors.
His brother, business-managing for his
father, leaves his car outside the front
gate more often than not unlocked. On
the morning the taxi was missed, later to
be found by the police at Mt. Coot-tha
minus everything removable including the
two-way aerial, a frantic, pyjama-clad
investigation by the bus. gent, revealed
his car unlocked but intact, including
£194, the day’s proceeds from the busi-
ness, still snuggling under the front seat
❖ *l* ♦♦♦
A RRIVING by car at 10 p.m. on a
Sunday night at a North Coast
(N.S.W.) town, I affronted several publi-
cans by asking for accommodation ; then
tried a high-class boarding-house, whose
New Australian proprietor said his
establishment, also, was overfull. When
he learned, however, that I had a wife
and two children with me, he suggested,
in stilted English: “If you wait here for
twenty minutes I might be able to assist
you, but you must not blame me if I
fail.” I waited as requested until he
returned and announced: “I am the
proprietor of this boarding-house, but I
have a private flat half-a-mile away. My
wife and child are away, and the flat is
vacant tonight, and my landlady has
permitted me to let it to you.” I drove
him to the flat, where he produced
scrupulously clean bed-linen and installed
us in the most comfortable lodgings of
our Melbourne-Brisbane trip. In paying
him I suggested that, as we were leaving
before daybreak, I should make a large
deposit against the possibility of my
decamping with some of his goods and
collect the deposit on the return-trip a
month later. “I am quite able to tell
an honest man when I see one,” he said
with some hauteur. In the circumstances,
I won’t say I’m a better judge than he is,
but I do hope he’s a better judge than
I am. —“Irving.”
HIGHLY IRREGULATIONAL
“When the Sydney G.P.O. authorities with-
drew the order closing locker-room doors which
caused a regulation-strike holding up 150,000
letters, the Postal Workers’ Union decided to
continue the strike. Next day they called it off,”
That his lockers were closed
By some vigilante
Was why, one supposed,
The postie was anti,
And sorters, comporting
Themselves circumspectly, >
Struck by resorting
To sorting correctly.
The heads were distressed:
“You did so much better
Not doing your best —
Don’t stick to the letter!
And here’s something more:
If you let the mail go.
We’ll open the door !”
But the sorters said “No J”
But next day they were
Of a different mind
Lest some might aver
That the door was a blind.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


T WONDER if any other city in the
world the size of Sydney is without
a garbage-service. There’s not a gar-
bage-collector or garbage-truck on the
books of the Sydney council; “cleansing
service” is the euphemism which covers
that department. Maybe it does sound
nicer, but what’s objectionable about the
good old English name of ratcatcher
that it should be struck off the rolls?
Not one of the army of men employed in
that capacity by the council admits to
being a member of the ancient profession.
Officially and by their own reference
they are “rodent exterminators.” —
“Sack.”
* *
“Clem”: In current cricket jargon it’s
fashionable to refer to “the England
team,” “the England score,” etc. For
ever “England”! And I suppose that
after the Fourth Test the English have
reason to hope that some corner of every
foreign field will be for ever —Old
Tr afford.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Red Dam”: In a Perth (W.A.)
tram-queue a lass said to her cobber, “Are
you interested in the Olympic Games,
Mavis?” “Don’t be silly,” said Mavis ;
“I wouldn’t waste tramfare to go and
see ’em.” I suppose a lot of people think
they’ll be on tour, like vaudeville.
❖ * *
“Sir Jay”: The Postmaster-General’s
campaign to have senders put their names
and addresses on the outside of letters is
doomed to failure. Said Lady Jay, when
the idea was brought to her notice: “It
won’t work. No woman will ever do it.
Why, it would take all the fun out of
getting letters! ” And she is not a woman
who places an unopened letter on the
mantelpiece until she has managed to
recognise the handwriting.
* * *
“Willpar”: The High Churchman who
agreed to bury a nonconformist and
remarked that he would happily bury the
lot (B. 15/8/’56) appears to have had
something in common with a Northern
Territory R.C. priest, who was visiting a
leper island, and agreed to bury the body
of a C. of E. leper, as several days would
elapse before the next boat could bring
the C. of E. minister. Back in his parish,
the priest was visited by the dead leper’s
official comforter, who demanded why he
had' agreed to bury the leper, “He was
dead,” said the old priest.
❖ ❖
“Mullum”: Army “knowalls” were
often off-the-beam, but occasionally they
won through. Our cook was stopped by
the guard as he was leaving the camp
carrying a suitcase packed with tinned
food, all with the DD brand. He was
arrested and charged with theft. Electing
to be tried by court-martial, he claimed
in his defence that as he had not taken
the goods out of the camp they were
still on Army property and could not be
classed as stolen. Verdict: Not guilty.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: Pipe-smokers find an
injured index-finger of the right hand
equally as inconvenient as do watch-
winders, cuff-buttoners, match-strikers
and car-drivers a damaged thumb (B.
1/8 / ’56),
“Lorna Doone”: Of all the services
“Pevin” lists as being too'difficult with
a cut thumb he leaves out the worst: I
don’t think he can ever have tried, and
with a painful digit, to do up a back-
fastening bra!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Teacher’s Pet”: “Willpar’s” “night-
watchman or something -akin” only
thought he would have to change over to
a new Holden (B. 8/8/’56). At one of
our great public schools a useful (known
in this seat of culture as a houseman,
and his housemaid wife, given the job
on the day Holden made the new design
available, reported for work next morn-
ing driving their brand-new Holden.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Ardoyne”: The A. and N.Z. Bank
has inaugurated a three-man mobile-
branch, comprising a three-room, bullet-
proof vehicle with safe, manager’s office,
main foyer, and driver’s cabin, and with
radio-telephone to the bank’s Collins-
street office. The unit is to serve industrial
workers and residents of outer suburbs
who normally have to give up part of
Saturday morning to banking-business.
It’s not the A. and N.Z.’s first mobile
bank—that was the camel-mounted
travelling-branch which served' the W.A.
goldfields during the goldrush-days.
♦♦♦ *t*
“Tos”: The longest book-title (B.
25/7/’56) I have read is that of a book
Macaulay “reviewed”:
Memoirs of the Life and Administration
of the Right Honorable William Cecil Lord
Burghley, Secretary of State in the Reign of
King Edward the Sixth, and Lord High
Treasurer of England in the Reign of Queen
Elizabeth. Containing an Historical View
of the Times in which he lived, and of the
many eminent and illustrious Persons with
whom he was' s connected; with Extracts
from his Private and Official Correspond-
ence and other Papers, now first published
from the Originals. By the Reverend Edward
Nares, D.D., Regius Professor of Modem
History ih the University of Oxford.
❖ ❖
“The Nark”: When English .viola-
player Bernard Shore landed on our
shores an A.B.C. commentator asked why
it was correct to speak of a viola-player,
not a violist. Mr. Shore said he believed
earlier viola-players were very jealous of
their instrument and did not like its being
confused with the violin, Next week the
“A.B.C. Weekly” announced a
programme “ with Bernard Shore,
“I hate to think what all this would cost after the NEXT
basic-wage adjustment ."
violist.” But my paper now announces
“Bernard Shore, violinist.” How right
those early violists —beg pardon, viola-
players —were.
♦jt ♦>
“Zorok”: Who called the cook a corres-
pondent? I see that Sir Edmund Hillary
(according to “Journalist,” organ of the
A.J.A.) wants for his next expedition a
special-writer who’ll also act as the
“You Were the same as a civilian, Valma —always exaggerating."
expedition’s cook. “Journalist” thinks
that either the writer will be taken on a
cook’s tour, or that there’ll be a great risk
the news-coverage will be half-baked. So
whoever goes looks like being in the
soup!
♦> ❖
“Agogue”: They tell me that under the
neo-Augustan influence of our universi-
ties the old unofficial school-history is
being remoulded. The playground-savants
now have it that instead of crying
“Looky, looky! Here’s Cookie! ” the
aborigines on that immortal occasion
took a stand, rolled their eyes and with
raised hands intoned: “But soft! We
are discovered!”
“Mugga Way”: Australian municipali-
ties worried by a vision of unsightly TV-
aerials may be interested to learn that
the Hampstead (London) borough-
council’s housing-committee has recom-
mended an “aerial service” for two of the
new housing-estates that will avoid a
multiplicity of roof-aerials when the new
flats are occupied—at a charge to tenants
of a shilling a week.
\
♦j* *!<
“C.W.S.”: Out of bed at some un-
earthly hour with my wife I saw another
early-riser ratting the 'milk-money across
the street. “Hadn’t you better put that
back?” said my ball-and-chain. Without
turning one of his crew-cut hairs he
dropped some coins into the bottle and
began departing. “What about the rest
of it?” and in went a few more coins.
The milk-oh didn’t know if the extra was
a tip or a mistake.
“Ilin”: The puzzled paint-manufac-
turer himself investigated a complaint
made to a retailer by a woman-customer.
Chairs, which she had done first, had a
hard finish, but a table was still “tacky”
after several days. “You’ve made a
very good job of these chairs,” he said,
“but didn’t you find a big surface like
this table difficult and add thinners to
the paint to make it go on easier?” She
“hadn’t any in the house.” “People often
do make additions, then blame the'result
on the paint,” he persisted. “What did
you put in?” “Well,” she confessed
coyly, “I did ease it on with some fly-
spray.”
*
“C.W.S.”: Writers to the Bully on the
secrecy of the Queensland electoral
system wpuld be interested in an election
for an association in Tasmania (no names,
no packdrill). The ballot-paper, nicely
initialled by the returning-officeer, must
be put into a sealed envelope on which
is written the voter’s name. The voter
must sign this envelope.
♦♦♦ ♦> *
“Emtee”: A scientific writer was still
quoting his dentist to the effect that
people who do not chew their food
properly throw an undue burden on their
stomachs when the “Australian Medical
Journal” debunked the theory as a “fish-
wife’s tale.” Chewing, the “Journal”
claimed, benefited little but the teeth.
Anyway, it gives us something to chew
over.
♦> ♦>
“J.J.A.”: Not only is the taking of a
bath an adventure on the Continent but
so is having a shower —at any rate in
youth-hostels. Youth-hostels big enough
to have showers only invest in one
roomful without curtains, to be used by
both sexes. The drill for Australians was
to work in groups (there are always a
lot of Australians about) and post guards
on the doors while the rest scrubbed
themselves ; then change places.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Weg”: Mini-golf is staging a come-
back in N.S.W.; there are good courses
at Bondi, Katoomba and Newcastle and in
many holiday-resorts. There seems no
possibility of its becoming the craze it
was a quarter of a century back, as
vacant blocks are just not available in
the suburbs, and present-day building-
costs are so high. The price on most
courses is a shocker —Is. a round,
same as it was in the depression days.
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Cunedda”: The potato-shortage is so
acute in New Zealand that holders of
tickets for the second N.Z.-S.A. Rugby
Union Test advertised them in the press
as exchangeable for potatoes.
♦> ♦>
“Kate”: My lass, aged nine, was play-
ing-up and I said, “Any more of this rot
and I’ll sell you.” “I wish you would,”
she said-—“to someone with television.”
* ❖ ❖
“Nidus”: “She’s apples” is more
familiar to the Australian tongue than
cider, which is considered almost a
temperance-drink ; yet sparkling cider has
almost double the alcohol-content of a
heavy ale and, the price of beer being
what it is, cider sip-for-sip is a cheaper
and quicker way of getting a glow up.
It would be found satisfying by those
who go for hock or sherry-and-lemon, to
which it is somewhat similar.
NEW PERSONALITY-CULT
“I find disturbing the increasing number of
■ulcer-personalities’ met with in general practice
Some patients seem to regard the p 9 ssession of
a peptic-ulcer as something which gives them a
special status in the community. —Warder in
medical journal.
id been satisfied,
And taken some pride,
In developing boils on my liver;
My joy was profuse
When a kidney broke . loose
Traversing crook roads in a flivver.
I felt none could scoff
At the graveyarder cough
That caused my whole chassis to rattle ;
Agonising the gripes
That I’ve suffered, but, cripes !
Think of what l could pridefully tattle!
I’ve been perked-up no end
And told many a friend
How my back would give way without
warning;
A gall-bag I had
Full of gibbers—not bad!
Who was I such a boon to be scorning ?
I’ve been kicked on the scone
By a horse, whereupon —
Although it alarmed r ' my wife,
Hortense—
l laughed loudly. You see,
It occurred then to me
It would make me a chap of importance.
Now, the foregoing might,
You’d say, give me the right
To be swollen of head, and conceited,
Yet it’s only of late
That I found out by Fate
I had been, up till now, badly cheated.
Gin and fried-pork brought on
Twitching torments. Anon
These settled to pain deep and dull, sir.
But the quack put me right.
Now my pride’s at its height —
I’ve a beautiful, big peptic-ulcer!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Edgar Thomas Towner, V.C., from
Longreach (Q.), who was held back from
attending the parade in London by bad
health and shearing troubles, has been
awarded the Dr. Thomson Foundation
Gold Medal for his geographical work.
• •
Sir William Penney, the British scientist
here to supervise the atomic experiments
at Maralinga (S.A.) in September, is a
solid, competent but rather shy-looking
chap of 47 with an ample head of light-
brown tufty hair. His manner, rather than
his appearance, reveals the scientist. As a
physicist he showed Australian pressmen
by practical demonstration that he is right
on the geiger-counter, but it wasn’t sur-
prising to hear from Supply Minister
Beale, who introduced him, that he is
right on the ball at golf as well. He is
also a cricketer.
' • •
Back in Sydney on the Oronsay —
H. C. C. Marshall, Bank of N.S.W. g.m.
He’s been on an eight-months’ world tour.
• •
Leaving for the U.S.A. next week, via..
London, E. Justin McCarthy, managing-
director of World Brands Pty., Ltd. (a
Unilever associate), will attend the
thirtieth Advanced Management Pro-,
gramme of - the Harvard University
Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion. Each class is attended by about 160
men of an average age of 44, mostly U.S.
executives and U.S. services personnel, but
several ex-U.S. companies may nominate
students. In screening applicants, the
committee at Harvard is mainly concerned
with what a man has achieved he
stopped going to school. There are no
strictly educational prerequisites.
• •
Maurice Alan Mawby won the 1955
Bronze Medal of the Australasian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and
was given it, with special appropriateness,
at Broken Hill (it’s for his contribution to
exploration and non-ferrous metallurgy
and mining). Son of a Broken Hill store-
keeper, he. grew up there, and now the
light burning most nights of the week in
Consolidated Zinc’s offices at the top-
end of Collins-street, Melbourne, is vice-
chairman Mawby’s. He is an active 52,
has had a hand at looking over almost
all the worth-while mining prospects in
recent years, and his incorrigible optimism
is also reflected in his relaxation: he has
a few bob on at the races.
• •
In the top bracket at the winter school
of the Economic Society of Australia and
New Zealand in Sydney, Harold Felix
Bell, president of the N.S.W. branch and
Economist to the A.M.P. At 35, Dr.
Bell is considered one of the keenest
economic brains in Australia. He can
also explain dark mysteries of finance in
a manner intelligible to any layman—a
somewhat diffident, half-casual voice
masking a clear, logical analysis; and a
pipe waved for emphasis. Born and
schooled at Ballarat (Vic.), he joined the
local A.M.P. office as a junior clerk,
began the Melbourne Uni. Diploma of
Commerce course by correspondence, and
passed his finals just after he joined the
A.LF. Released by the Army to go to
the Navy, after northern duties he was
seconded to the British Pacific Fleet, and
at war’s end was serving in New Zealand’s
famous cruiser Achilles. Demobbed, he
went to A.M.P.’s Melbourne office,
ECONOMICS
graduated Bachelor of Commerce,
Bachelor of Arts, and Master of Com-
merce in quick succession—by part-time
study—and in 1950 went to the A.M.P.
London office, where he was given full-
time leave to study for his Ph.D. at
London School of Economics. After
studying developments in life-assurance
and investment in Europe and North
America he came back to take up his
present post —a new, executive one, the
first such appointment made by a life-
office in Australia.
• •
x \
Fourth-year med. student Sam
Abraham, from Malaya, has been elected
president of the Adelaide Students’
Representative Council —first Asian to
become president of the controlling
student-body in any Australian university.
• . •
“Uramao”: Pretoria University has
awarded a doctorate in philosophy to
George E. Mapstone, a New Zealander
from Christchurch. Now with a South
African concern, he was senior chemical-
engineer with the Glen Davis shale-oil
-co. in Sydney for a time, later with
C.5.1.R.0.
• •
Former Commonwealth Attorney-
General John Armstrong Spicer, who
becomes Chief Judge of the new
Commonwealth Industrial Court, was
born at Armadale (Vic.) in 1899, went
to school in England, and was admitted
as a barrister and solicitor in Melbourne
in 1921. During World War II he
INDUSTRIAL COURT
chaired the Senate Committee on Regula-
tions and Ordinances. Earlier interests
were the Victorian Young Nationalist
Organisation and the Melbourne Con-
stitutional Club. Writer struck him at an
agricultural affair once, at which he was
deputising for the Prime Minister. He
made a speech which was a model of
brevity and modesty. He said, in effect,
that he knew nothing about agriculture,
but would make way for someone who
did —Sir lan Clunies Ross.
• •
Several links in the chain of coincidence
jingled merrily at Fremantle when Martin
Lindsay, member of the House of
Commons, stepped ashore from the liner
Strathmore, to be greeted by his brother-
in-law, Robert Lindsay, M.H.R. for
Flinders (Vic.). Two lengthy middle-agers,
they are not consanguineally related —they
first met as fellow-cadets at Sandhurst.
Here to visit his wife’s family, Martin
Lindsay will inquire into the prospects
of sending his two sons to Australia. In
1930 he was surveyor with the British
Arctic air-route expedition to Greenland.
Four years later he had another look at
Greenland’s icy mountains, and named
an 11,000 ft. range after the Crown Prince
of Sweden. For his work in Greenland
and elsewhere he has been honored by the
Governments of Sweden, Belgium, France
and Britain.
• •
David Low, in London, is preparing his
autobiography for the presses.
• •
Thomas Hewitson Roberts leaves his
Chair of Education at lowa to come back
to his ola job as Director of Adult
Education in W.A. University. Now 50,
he was on his way home with an Oxford
M.A. before the Hitler war when
he stopped to look at American
student - institutions and
-activities, and was later offered
the post of Professor of Educa-
tion at lowa. He served with
U.S. forces, later with the A.1.F.,
and returned to the States when
war ended. There, he’s been
on the executive-committee of
the Adult Education Association
of the U.S., chairman of the
National Commission on Adult
Education, and president of the
lowa Adult Education Associa-
tion. His father, G. M. Roberts,
a mining-engineer, was a
foundation - member of the
Senate of the , Westralian
University.
• •
“Allan B.”: Archdeacon C. S.
Robertson, after seven-and-a-half
years, is going back to a parish,
and lanky Bananalander Rev.
Frank Coaldrake takes over (in
January) as chairman of the
Australian Board of Missions,
which looks after C. of E.
missionary work in Australia,
Pacific areas and South-east
Asia, and has an annual
income of some £150,000. The
new man, now with his wife and two
young children in Ito, Japan, where
he’s working as' a missionary, is a former
travelling-secretary of the Student Chris-
tian Movement, and at one time worked
with the Melbourne Brotherhood of St.
Laurence. He’s the bloke who, with a
colleague, sat on a Melbourne veranda
for six weeks until an obstructive tenant
handed-over the key; the owner was an
elderly widow in needy circumstances.
• •
Edward Bonaventure Heffernan
Brotchie, victim last week in Sydney, with
his sister, of a bomb placed in his car
by an apparently demented brother-in-law
(the man afterwards suicided), was a fine
type of family-doctor. A Melbourne
graduate, he had practised in South Aus-
tralia before coming to N. S. Wales, and
his main interest outside medicine was
the Methodist Church ; a lay-preacher,
and president of a building-fund which
raised £25,000 to build a new church in
his suburb, he had recently been to New
Guinea in connection with missionary-
work. He was planning a trip to
Kosciusko with his family—the outdoors
were his chief relaxation. The eldest of
his three daughters is a second-year
medical student. Custom stales good
words, but there is really no substitute for
the “well loved and respected in his
district” voiced by a friend. He was 50
at the time of the tragedy.
• »
The secretary-elect of the Department
of Defence, Edwin William Hicks, is one
of, the Federal p.s.’s efficiency experts,
His colleagues find him very easy to take,
however, because he combines with his
mental acuteness a quiet voice with a
direct, frank character. The blend is
responsible for his rather rapid rise in the
service. He was with the R.A.A.F. dur-
ing the war, chiefly with No. 2 Squadron
at Darwin, and at Bairnsdale. He was
a public-service inspector before he took
over his present post as secretary of the
Department of Air. Unlike some seden-
tary executives in their middle forties, he
is spare and fit, partly because he plays
a lot of sport, and partly because four
sons and a daughter keep him up to the
collar at his Elsternwick (Melbourne)
home, too.
• •
Melbourne Uni.’s honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws for F. R. Beasley, who
has been head of the Westralian Uni-
versity’s Law School since 1927. Joined
the First A.LF. as a teenager, was
wounded while serving with the 11th
Bn. and was commissioned before
demobilisation. Then graduated in Arts
at Oxford and Law at Sydney. He was
in khaki again during War 11, on full-
time duty with a militia battalion.
• •
Dr. F. H. Letters, of Armidale (N.S.W.)
University, happened to call at The
Bulletin office simultaneously with Dr.
Bialoguski, of Petrov fame, and it seems
important not to get them mixed. Dr.
Bialoguski was the one witl} the beard ;
Dr. Letters was just back from a year’s
sabbatical leave spent studying Senecan
MSS. in the Vatican museum with a view
to a history of Roman satire. While on
his travels he was awarded an honorary
Litt.D. from the National University of
Ireland for “distinguished contributions to
classical scholarship”—his books on
Virgil, etc.
R.A.S. PUBLICITY
Gilbert Mant, already well known as a
newspaperman and Sydney columnist, has
a land background that should be useful
in his R.A.S.-publicity job. His grand-
father, Mat Mant, of Gigoomgan (Mary-
borough district), was one of the pioneer
breeders of Shorthorns in Queensland.
Gilbert, now 54, was jackerooing on Sir
Norman Kater’s Eenaweena (Warren,
N.S.W.) in 1918, followed by six years
knocking around the Monaro —
Adaminaby, Kiandra, Cooma, Jindabyne
—mainly rabbit-trapping. Anyone less
like the popular conception of a rabbit-
trapper than the well-groomed man-
about-town who is Gilbert Mant today
would be hard to imagine. But no doubt
that early experience was valuable. He
went to England on the proceeds of a
potato-crop, and has been mixed-up in
journalism ever since. With Reuters in
England and Canada, he covered the
M.C.C. tour of Australia in 1932-33, was
back covering “Gubby” Allen’s tour, and
stayed on to look after Reuters’ Aus-
tralian news-service. Served overseas with
the A.LF., later a war-correspondent, and
his book on Malaya, Grim Glory, sold
55,000 copies. He joined Sydney “Sunday
Sun” in 1945 and left the “Sun”-“Herald”
combine to take on his present job.
• •
Who’s Who in WHO? In the South
Pacific area it’s Dr. J. M. Cruikshank,
C.M.G., 0.8. E., former inspector-
general of the South Pacific Health
Service and director of Medical Services.
Fiji. Recently arrived in Sydney, which
will be his headquarters, he’ll have as
his sphere of influence Australia, New
Zealand, Papua and New Guinea,
Netherlands New Guinea and the Aus-
tralian, French, N.Z., U.K. and U.S.
islands in the South and West Pacific.
The doc. is a Canadian, is 54, and was
on the Royal Canadian Air Force h.q.-
staft in Ottawa and London in War 11.
W.H.O. is, of course, World Health
Organisation, a U.N.O. agency. .
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 92, Harry/Donnan, who went
to England with the 1896 cricketers. A year
younger than K. E. Burn (“Silence,” l/8/’56),
who went with the 1890 team, H.D. watched
cricket regularly up to last season, and once
advised the Bradman to change
his grip of the bat.
At 63, in Melbourne, Frank Alexander
Cudmore, Old Digger, life-member of the Royal
Society, and geological scientist. Palaeontologist
at the National Museum of Victoria since 1931,
Cudmore built-up the finest collection of Aus-
tralian fossils in the world and discovered
several species of marine-rock hitherto unknown.
At 88, in Auckland (N.Z.), Sir George Elliot,
Bank of N.Z. director and a benefactor to good
causes. A native of Jedburgh, Scotland, he
headed south 65 years ago, and, with his
brother, first ran a newspaper at Tauranga, next
tried flax-milling, then established an agency-
business in Auckland. He was chairman or a
commission on trade between New Zealand
and Samoa, Fiji and other Pacific Islands after
War I, and was knighted in 1923. Some 18
months ago he made a gift of £90,000 to t
Presbyterian Boys’ College at Pakuranga.
At Wodonga (Vic.), at 65, Old Digger
Richard Walter Aheam, former manager ot tne
Kiewa butter-factory and, before that, r J iana = ,
of the Rushworth, Stanhope, Eskdale
Shepparton factories. He had a b!g hand
the rapid development of dairying in the K
Valley in the ’thirties and ’forties: ° ne ,? •
first to advocate using super, in the oisi ,
he was a consistent supporter ot . P® -
improvement, and at one time was know-
“Phalaris Dick” for his early interest: m this
grass. Sergeant with the old 21st Bn., t° r P .
on the Southland off Gallipoli, served oa G P-
until the evacuation, and badly wound
Mouquet Farm.


. cy
you
'Pon t
- <a34vv A
¥ e’u ee
DINNER-DANCE


ABORIGINALITIES
WHO KEEPS THE WATCH?
Trust our strength, we shall go up the mountain,
We’ll break apart its black immunity;
We’ll stand there tall and shout across the
silence ,
Our urgent certainty.
Have no fear for we own none at all,
But we have this, our faith in flesh and bone . . .
Our hearts are young, but God! how old the
mountain,
We are together, it is there alone.
Solitude can only earn our pity,
A healthy, human company goes well
Upon the bitter track, in glacial tempest,
The wind howls not for us nor tolls a bell.
We swear it, we shall take and stake the old
one . . .
Shall set our mark upon its pride again;
And if there is a single one among us
That momentarily discerns disdain
Breathed out from masks of ice, a wrathful
shade
Within the steely gash, we will not give
One hint of credence, only lusty laughter,
For most of all we do desire to live.
Imagination faints away behind us,
For fantasy is error, dream is danger;
The snow blows frightful, wild as streaming
smoke
Around the summit—see it not as anger.
We shall be victors, this is but a mountain,
And we are man. And only in the deep
Of rationed slumber may we half-confess
The horror-stricken watch our spirits keep.
N.z. Paula Hanger Birch.
* * * *
CJOMEONE had left the wire-netting
cover off one of her tanks, and a
kingfisher had swooped and helped him-
self to a veiltail. “There it was, the
wretched thing, on a branch right over the
tank with the poor fish in its beak. I
shouted to my husband. He rushed into
the house and got his twenty-two and do
you know what happened?” I made the
obvious guess: “He hit the bird and the
fish fell back into the tank?” “You’re
wrong,” she said, with venom. “He hit
the fish and the bird flew away!”-—
“Sixtoes.”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: The lerp, a flying insect
smaller than a flea and known to be the
young of the psyllid plant-louse, festoons
a silky secretion over telegraph-lines.
When the weblike stuff connects the
wires, rain or dew causes short-circuits.
Spraying just makes it stickier. Other
enemies of the P.M.G. are camels that
knock down poles by scratching their
hides on them ; flying-foxes hanging to
the wires by their tails J , galahs roosting
in flocks and jerking the wires into a
tangle on the take-off; and termites,
which ate the Daly Waters post-office.
# * * *
“Wippegong”: Coming into the Hunter
Valley (N.S.W.) from farther south*
it was pleasant to find within 50 miles
of the coast two of my western cobbers —
crested-bronzewing and pied-butcher-bird.
Not so many of the pigeon ; but along
any road in these parts you can find a
pair of the black-throated beauties which,
silent in the winter, will play a flute-
accompaniment to the advent of spring,
and the promise of it adds value to the
lengthening days. * Didn’t expect them so
close to the sea, but the Divide is a
gentle one at the head of this valley.
Here also, flowering in a well-kept
garden, a sturdy specimen of that small-
flowering cassia which crops-up near
Dubbo and waves for yellow miles
beyond Nyngan. The owner said it came
up after last year’s flood; it looked
healthy, so he’d let it grow to see what
it would be; which means that some-
where between, say, Tamworth and
Barrington the little “western” shrub had
crept across the Divide and was far
enough down the eastern slope to drop
seeds into the torrents that tore down the
Hunter Valley in ’55. An interesting
expansion of territory.
• * * *
“Raygu”: As the once-a-week “mixed”
started to gain speed the guard noticed a
case of eggs which were addressed to
our station. In a minor panic he tossed
it on to the platform. Anyway, they
were delivered!
* * * *
t
“Hist”: From S. P. Mais’s Austrian
Holiday : r
Salzburg, April 28, 1951. I bought tickets
... .for the six-o’clock performance of a
film in German, the title of which I never
discovered. The photography was wonder-
ful, the story pretty well non-existent.
Three or four extremely good-looking and '
virile young men were rounding up
horses and cattle and felling timber on a
lonely farm or ranch high up in mountains
that must have been in Australia, because
a kangaroo suddenly appeared. There was
a good-looking girl with whom two of the
men fell in love. There was a grand
fight in which everybody bashed everyone
else to pulp, and the girl went for a bathe
Without any clothes on, which gave me a
chance to realise that she was as physically
perfect as the men were. The audience
approved the film, and so did I. It was a
much healthier form of escapism than the
American films.
Seemingly the “Sons of Matthew” have
been seeing the world.
* * * *
“Sixtoes”: Fresh from the big city to
teach in the little backblocks school, she
said: “Children, supposing you could
choose six things for a kitchen, what
would you have first?” Several called-
out together: “A tap, miss.”
* ♦ * *
“Alma”: That cocky’s girl, who’d
“stand a coupler good droughts” (®.
25/7/’56), at least had a more flattering
description than another bucolic wench I
knew; she was described as a “good
springcart sort.”
* * * *
“X Bearing”: On my Admiralty
chart Pigeon Loft Mountain (B. 25/7/’56)
is called Cook’s Pigeon House (or, as one
old shipmaster of my acquaintance always
called it, “the Pigeons’ Cook-House”),
and it is one of the most easily identified
objects in that vicinity from which to
fix a ship’s position by cross-bearings.
As for Cook’s gift for nomenclature, this
should be undisputed, for the majority
of names he gave to coastal features are
easily remembered and have a story
behind them. There are, inter alia, Cape
Tribulation, north of Cairns, near which
point the Endeavour sat on a rock which
“Cant think how this one got in.”
holed her, and from which event, as
Cook remarks in his journal, “all our
troubles began”; there is Providential
Channel, one of the openings in the
Barrier Reef, through which the
Endeavour was washed at uncontrollable
speed by the strength of the ebb and
providentially washed back into smooth
water by a turn of the tide before disaster
occurred; Whitsunday Passage (negoti-
ated on that day of the year); Trinity
Bay (passed on Trinity Sunday); Mount
Manifold, named on account of its
several peaks; and Bustard Head, in the
vicinity of which a landing-party from
the Endeavour shot “a large bird like a
turkey, which weighed seventeen pounds
and proved excellent eating.”
“ Look — it's back again for more burleg!"
Spanning the dam is the
electricity-wire, and below is the nest of
grebes on family bent. On the wire
regularly perches a kookaburra,. pre-
datory and watchful. But whether the
nest contains eggs or young, or whether
a parent is leaving it periodically, the
damp and half-submerged home is shut
up briskly and thoroughly at every out-
going. So there is no real need to worry
about the domestic scene being marred
by tragedy. But what interests and
puzzles rpe in the set-up is how the
apparently clumsy and dunlpy kooka.
manages to land and perch comfortably
on the wire, which is a feat often
attempted by the magpies with only
ludicrous results.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Polite pigs—by courtesy
of “Quo Vhdis” (B. 25/7/’56) —that spit
out cherry-stones will please form rear
ranks to useful monkeys of Borneo, which
provide the local inhabitants with neat
heaps of coffee-beans, free of all pulp and
membranes and ready for roasting. The
trees are Coffea robusta, survivors of old
unsuccessful plantations, and, in compe-
tition With regrowth jungle, have gone
high. When a coffee-expert was asked
just why was this native brew so superior
he explained that any coffee-tree flowers
continually for eight months and, at any
time, its fruit is of many stages of ripe-
ness, which is indeed a picking-problem.
To be top grade, seed must derive from
ripe fruit, and the monkeys discriminately
eat only that, and so provide good coffee-
beans.
• * * *
“Heresone”: Glad to hear that
“Koo-Warra” got his “Post Office
Guide” (B. 18/7/’56). Eor 12 years I’ve
been trying to buy a Queensland Rail-
ways timetable. “They’re out offprint.
No, I don’t know when we’ll have fresh
stocks.” Station staffs have been getting
evasive. Asked when the Brisbane train
is due (as far as I remember, the timetable
used to say 12.10 p.m.) a porter will reply,
“It ought to be here by 12.30.” So it
ought. Last time I was on our station I
couldn’t find any of the large timetable-
sheets that used to adorn its walls. But
the day must come when all the trains
are exactly seven days late, and then the
timetables can be printed without a
word of a lie.
* * * *
“Bardie”: Gowan, his wife ailing and
no longer able to help with the milking,
decided to put his farm on shares. He
was a hard, hungry man, and none of
the locals would take on the job. Then
there arrived a stranger possessed of a
worn-out utility, a wife and six kids, a
scrub-haircut and a vacant expression.
He listened to Gowan, looked over the
farm, said little and got himself
employed. Gowan moved to a house in
town. Bob turned out to be a share-
man who’d be a joy to practically any
cocky. Things had improved out of
sight by the third season. Then Gowan
called to see Bob. “I’m givin’ y’ notice,”
he said. “Three months—like we agreed
when y’ started.” Bob waited a couple
of minutes before answering, the while
his steady gaze noted the well-grassed
slopes and trim appearance of pigyards
and dairy. “W-what’s wrong?” he
asked. “Last month we knocked out
five-hundred quid, an’ that’s more’n we
ever got before.” “Yair, I know,”
Go wan said. “An’ that’s the trouble. I
had t’ give y’ half. Two-fifty’s more than
I can afford t’ pay out o’ me place in a
month. I’m givin’ up dairyin’ an’ goin’
in f’r raisin’ bullicks.”
* * * •
“Clem”: Kangaroo-rats hadn’t been
sighted in the Victorian Wimmera for the
last 50 years. Recently two were caught
in traps there.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The big gidyea-log was
intended for a gate-post, and as we peeled
the heavy rough black bark from it we
found its undersurface packed solid with
fine sawdust. The sapwood of the log
was patterned with a maze of interlocked
shallow grooves, smoothed and rounded
with symmetrical precision, as if done
with a milling-cutter—the work of the
larvae of the often-beautiful jewel-
beetle ( Buprestidae ), one of a family of
woodborers, the eggs of which had been
laid under the bark. Plugs of sawdust,
cement-hard, blocked the openings where
the grubs had bored into the flinty wood
in preparation for a lengthy pupation.
Presuming that the larvae attack live
timber, their eating of the inner-bark and
sapwood would cut-off the very life-
stream of the tree and kill it. Many
native trees are probably destroyed in
this insidious manner.
* * * *
'T'HE duties of the young captain of
armed constabulary in Borneo
embraced everything from safeguarding
the tribal rights and access to edible
birds’-nest caves to the prevention of
speculative tourists attending the
“Gambling Farm”; and he was busy. The
local cinema-owner was grumbling
because his regular clients objected to
the numbers of lepers who, on low-tide
nights, crossed from Berhala to attend
the pictures, and the M.O. said “Why
shouldn’t they go?” The Chinese lessee
of Teganac was complaining that raiding
Suluks were getting more turtle-eggs
than he was. The Governor’s lady had
telephoned, twice about her missing York-
shire-terrier, and by the time a sensible
Chinese detective had found it at the
fish-market there was, from Government
House, another call for a progress-
report. So the captain telephoned the
good news to her Ladyship, who said the
aide was very busy, so please send the
dog up. The captain did so, and, led by
a 14st. Sikh Subahdar, the diminutive
canine, at the 'head of troops with fixed
bayonets and the constabulary band, was
escorted the odd mile or so to Govern-
ment House. His Ex. and his lady were
not amused. —“Sevenelms,”


DURING the shearers’ strike the local
C.W.A. members were visiting the
country hospital. Gave a sympathetic
ear to the recital of the domestic troubles
of a well-known “greasy,” pyjama-clad,
reading and dozing in a quiet, sunny
veranda-nook. He, apparently, was
convalescent; looked well, Was au fait
with hospital routine. Curiosity
triumphed. What was his illness? “Me?
I’m not crook. I’m working here now
while the wardsman’s on holidays. It’s
me day-off!” he said indignantly. Hurried
exit of ladies! —“Inton.”
* * * *
“S.C.R.”: Queensland’s Fraser Island,
Australia’s next-in-size to Tasmania,
offers three companies holding its beach-
mining rights an unbroken 75 miles of
sand along its east shore which they hope
will be full of rutile, zircon and ilmenite.
The 90-mile-long island, a continuation of
the Barrier Reef, has a freshwater lake
big enough to take a float-plane.
Brumbies, wild cattle, dingoes and wild
pigs roam its wilder areas. For fishing
there’s a ready-made “wharf,” the 400 ft.
Maheno, former pleasure-craft of the New
Zealand-Tasmania run, which was swept
ashore on July 11, 1935, in a cyclone while
being towed to Japan for scrap. The
hulk lies among the fish* and the visiting
angler just climbs to the deck and drops
’em over the side.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Heard a couple of our old-
timers reminiscing about marbles:
“Remember when we used to exchange
chows for stonkers, knock over a
commono or a bottley and trade conks for
smokies?” said one old chap. O.K. with
me; but as a couple of lads who’d been
listening walked away one of them com-
mented: “Reckon those blokes must be
New Australians.”
* * * *
“Opsimath”: My travelling-companion
on the Cairns express was a frail but
cheerful old bloke in the lower sleeping-
berth. First morning out of Brisbane
he declined a dining-car breakfast and
produced his own food from a basket.
“Now that the end-of-the-financial-year book-work's over a man
can relax.”
“On a diet,” he told me ; “got to have
special tucker.” I wondered how he’d
manage for the rest of the journey. Well,
a schoolgirl great-granddaughter was
awaiting him with fresh supplies at the
first stop —and at another it was a
middle-aged granddaughter. Said he,
“I was on the railways for 40 years, and
most of the children and grandchildren
got jobs with the railways, too, or
married into them. Yair, I’ve got rela-
tions up and down this line for hun-
dreds of miles.” At Townsville, his
destination, there were more of them
on the platform, and before I saw him
off the train he confided: “ ’Course, I
wouldn’t have put ’em to all this fuss and
bother over a bit of a train-journey,
y’ know. No, they done
it all theirselves and paid
for it —couple o’ months
holiday with me youngest
son for an 86th-birthday
present!”
* *
“Salmon Gums”: Wild
birds’ hostile reception of
escaped caged birds (B.
25/7/’56) isn’t much dif-
ferent from their attitude
towards members of their
own species which invade
their territory. This
applies to most birds —
even a bronze-cuckoo,
which doesn’t build a nest
of its own, stakes its
claim and fights for it. In'
some species either of the
home-pair may tolerate
an intruder of the opposite
sex, but would kill one of
of its own sex, although
this wouldn’t apply to
birds like magpies, which
live in communities.
Similarly, birds in a
territory will tolerate birds of most
other species; but I’ve seen the
entire avian population of a strip
gang-up on a hawk. It’d be the
same with a caged bird. If it was a
member of a species already established
there, its own kind would attack it. If
it was a total stranger it would probably
be suspect and the mob would gang-up
on it, and the fact that its intentions
were friendly wouldn’t save it. Birds are
very like humans in some ways.
* * * *
“Archaen”: Recently a South Aus->
tralian ethnologist was handed a stone
which had been used as a hand-mill for
grinding seeds. It had been picked up on
a sand-dune at one of our outports by a
man who, naturally, took it to be an
Australian aboriginal artifact. The expert
identified it as having come from western
Europe, “probably northern France.”
Subsequent investigation showed that
many years ago some earth from a
sailing-ship’s ballast had been dumped at
that spot, and it must have included an
unnoticed relic of stone-age man in
Europe. The port where the ship had
taken the earth-ballast aboard? Le
Havre, northern France.
* * * *
“Scrub Tick”: Talking of nests of
bush-turkeys in C.Q. (B. 27/6/’56). In
1924, in the Mackay district, while walk-
ing through some recently-burnt scrub
I trod on what appeared to be a solid
turkey’s-nest. The centre was a smoulder-
ing fire. My cobber saved me from being
roasted.
“Gravelsnatcher”: The magpies are
using the same pest again this year, and
it’ll probably be in use 20 years hence,
because it’s made entirely of wire. The
bending of the wire is specially interest-
' ing. Small birds —willy wagtails, honey-
eaters and hosts of others —interlace
grass and fine twigs and spider-web to
make a cosy, weatherproof structure, so
the bending of material would be instinc-
tive with them, but many of the bigger
birds, such as crows, magpies, herons
and eagles, simply build a criss-cross of
dry twigs which don’t respond to bend-
ing. This magpie’s ancestors have been
building like that for centuries, yet when
wire suddenly becomes available she uses
it to the exclusion of twigs and with
“Oh, Harry — let's do it again!"
clever appreciation of its pliability. Some
of the fencing-wire in the nest is
beginning to rust, and, before long, will
probably give way. If the bird patches
the nest with copper-wire I’ll give it full
marks.
* # * *
“Burt St.”: Recalling those church-
socials of yesterday. Attended one in
Boulder (W.A.) and was sitting alongside
two Cousin Jacks from Moonta when
Mrs. Portly came along with a big plate-
ful of her specialities, rock-cakes. Noting
the dubious looks from Moonta, she urged
sweetly, “Take your pick, gentlemen,
take your pick.” They picked. Then,
as Joe tried the “rockies” with his
double-set of crockery, heHurned to Abe.
“Blime, she says take a pick, but what
about going up to the Big Boulder for a
rock-drill?”
* * * *
“Quo-Vadis”: One country newspaper-
man’s love of the bottle (not alone in
this) made sure delivery of printing-
orders something of a hazard. The day
before racebooks for the annual picnic-
meeting were due John Barleycorn was
well out in front. At daybreak next
morning en route to a deadline-steadier
from Bung, the printer had the bad luck
to meet the race-club secretary. “I’m
on the job early this morning, Joe,” he
alibi’d. “So I see,” was the thoughtful
reply.
.** * *
“Ex-Newgate”: The old-timers who
came to Botany Bay knew the art" of
splitting a bank-note better than to be
bothered with razor-blades. To split a
note they took two sheets of tough
cartridge-paper, gummed both with strong
mucilage, then placed the note between.
Finally, with all perfectly dry,
they tore the sheets apart and
the note, being the weakest, split
right down the middle. The
two halves were then removed
by soaking in warm water,
which also swelled the fibres of
the paper to reasonable thick-
ness. Printed to perfection on
the blank side, such notes were
only to be detected by the
sensitive fingers of the bank-
teller, or someone handling
thousands of notes in the
course of the day.
“Griff”: When a valuable milker was
lost from a dairyfarm in the Bendigo
district (Vic.), the broadcast description,
reward, please contact, etc., was topped-
off with “Please milk the cow!”
* * »:■ *
“G’roper”: Henry Parkes’s weed-
choked grave (B. 11/7/’56) is in marked
contrast to the well-kept one of Thomas
Peel in Mandurah (W.A.) cemetery. Peel
(cousin to the great Sir Robert) was pro-
moter of, and finally victim to, the
greatest private-colonisation failure in
Australian history—a quarter-million
acres of river, lake, swamp, hill and plain,
bountifully covered with forest, which,
with the exception of tiny Mandurah on
the rim of the Indian Ocean, remained a
wilderness until the repatriation of
returned men began after World War I.
But Peel’s flower-decked grave is not the
work of any society or local authority.
An old-timer thus shows his apprecia-
tion of a man who suffered much (Peel
lost his entire fortune), and whose work,
after more than a century, now comes to
fruition.
CHRISTIE’S BEACH
It was years ago when we rested on the sandhill,
but, oh, how clearly I remember it.
You dug your heel in deep
on the steep slope,
and the clear sand ran and ran
trickling and trickling down the clear surface,
wiping out tiny wind-ripples
and faint claw-print of lizard.
Well, time’s sand has run and run and run
unstopped ever since,
yet has not smoothed away
my memories of that day.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
THE DISAPPEARING SCARECROW
r’S many a day now since I last saw
a dinky-di scarecrow, yet one time
they were as much part of the rural
scene as the kero.-tin converted to a milk-
bucket. >
No doubt mechanical contrivances do
the job more effectively in the vineyards
and well-equipped orchards of today.
But the scarecrows were an institution
once, and quite a bit of social history
could be read from one if you could get
hold of it now—a tattered comment in
faded dungarees, battered felt-hat with
corks bobbing; some, I remember, even
ran to bowyangs.
The ones I, recall were confined mainly
to lordship over the cherry-trees by the
creek, the peas round about Christmas
and the wheat before it was carted in.
They may have been somehow effective ;
but I often saw a crow perched uncon-
cernedly on one of the waving arms ; and,
despite his Lordship’s silent protection,
there was always a lot of shooing from
the kitchen-door when one of the same
marauders hovered ominously over the
fowlhouse.
Even so, every farm in the district had
one, and they were renewed each year.
Their preparation usually fell to the
womenfolk and the kids, and more than
a little skill and healthy rivalry often
went into the job.
I recall one neighbor who, with some
sense of humor mixed with satire, rigged-
out the new model in the familiar garb of
a crusty old bachelor of the district who
was very vocally “agin’m.” With ancient
tweed cap, white handkerchief knotted
at the throat and long gaberdine coa!t,
there was no mistaking the likeness.
THE scarecrow, too, inevitably figured
in many a minor incident —scaring
more than crows or cockatoos.
There was the occasion when old
Daley, never known for his‘ sobriety,
found himself off-course one moonlight
night, and ended-up among our goose-
berries.
When he staggered on to the veranda,
white and trembling and by then stone-
sober, to announce he’d seen a woman in
flowing white veils drifting about down
by the creek, it caused quite a flutter.
The menfolk being away at the time,
a sleepless night behind locked doors
followed. And the mystery was only
solved next morning, when a scarecrow
erected by the youngsters was found
flaunting an old nightgown and a veil
that drifted gaily beneath one of those
straw double-deckers women then wore.
Not to do the old chap out of his
story, the thing was discreetly removed,
and Dan repeated his account of the
meeting, with various embellishments, for
years.
There was the time, too, that poor old
Mrs. J , her sight none the best,
pulled-up in the buggy beside our garden
one evening and engaged our latest inven-
tion in conversation for fully five
minutes : and capped it off next day by
confiding to Mother that Father’s hearing
wasn’t the best ,and he should see
about it.
It was a good replica of Father, that
one!
But, as I say, these things seem to be
a rarity today; and there’ll be little to
remember them by in the future, for
I don’t recall their, ever having found
their way into local art, verse, or fiction,
representative of the local scene though
they once were.
CLEM MAC.


Fussy birds these
l-wanters . m
l-demanders
The I-wanters we perfectly understand. We fully
appreciate the ways of the I-demanders.
We’ve equipped ourselves specifically for their
benefit and pleasure.
There’s nothing peculiar about these inveterate
air travellers, sometimes better known as Big
Shots, or V.l.P.’s. They’ve grown considerably in
numbers with the phenomenal expansion of our
industries—and of our services. They, are simply
people who get things done because that’s what
they are equipped to do. They’re the people
who produce the goods.
They’re trained in the supplying of the wants of
a nation, in acceding to the demands of circum-
stance. They are the people who organise and
direct supply and production to satisfy and pleas<
the wants and demands of millions.
Just as we do.
They want, because they give, a lot of service.
They demand, because they give, every efficiency.
Because like attracts like, these people fly only
where they can enjoy their travelling in an
atmosphere of reciprocal efficiency, comfort,
courtesy. They fly Qantas.
IVIN VO
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
Q A NT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (inc. in Q’land.)
IN ASSOCIATION WITH 8.0.A.C. AND TEAL
Q 6.82.46
the jackeroo
• •
. . the apprentice to the grazing industry, the embryo station
manager and perhaps, some day, grower of his own wool.
Bob (we’ll call him Wilks) started that way on a 400,000 acre
station on the Darling, when the river fleet paddled the wool down
to Morgan, returning with decks stacked high with station
merchandise from fencing wire to stud rams from Bungaree.
Bob later drew a 20,000 acre treeless western plain, long denuded
by rabbits and by lopping for Starving sheep. He collected
Mulga seed, raised 10,000 young trees, planted them all over his
paddocks, shut up areas to regenerate herbage, cleared rabbits,
and, after ten years in partnership, Bob and Nature are growing
one of the best clips in the west.
Dalgetys is proud to have been able to help Bob in his outstanding
achievement.
MBaigetys
Always Dependable
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Cahill and Inflation
AS was to be expected, Premier
Cahill, of N.S.W., was chief
spokesman against the anti-
inflationary proposals of the
Federal Government.
It was not surprising that
Premier Cahill would have noth-
ing to do with the Common-
wealth proposition that wages
should he based on the capacity
of industry to pdy them. That
is because Mr. Cahill knows
nothing about the capacity of
industry to do anything. His own
industrial undertakings, especi-
ally the railways, show that.
Mr. Cahill’s great job in life
is to look after his own ilk
regardless of their competence
or administrative performance.
Thus Government departments,
the Law and many other
services have been favored with
nominees of the various pressure-
groups which support the Cahill
Government. Merit and ability
mean nothing to the Cahill
Administration. Mr. Cahill and
his Cabinet want all the powers
and privileges they can get, but
accept no responsibility for
governing competently. Cahill
government is government for
“just us.”
There was nothing constructive
in the Cahill conditions for co-
operation with the Common-
wealth in fighting inflation. He
wouldn’t recognise increasing
wage-rates as a prime factor in
inflation. He mentioned nothing
about productivity. Instead, he
was all for “controls” and an
excess-profits tax, at the same
time throwing a sop to the
business world with a request for
the removal of payroll-tax.
It is time Australia, and
N.S.W. in particular, woke to
the fact that the Cahill Govern-
ment is prepared to bring the
whole economy crashing down
if that is necessary to further the
ends of its controlling pressure-
groups. Government of the
people, by the people, and for
the people no longer exists in
N. S. Wales.
W. S. Robinson and Inflation
TN speaking-out so strongly
against any policy of defla-
tion, W. S. Robinson, of Collins
House, says “the word ‘inflation’
has been and is being used and
abused by those who do not feel
the world should take the risk
involved in progress.” He adds:
“Where in the whole history of
mankind was there ever any
economic development of any
moment that did not involve a
pressure of demand and a conse-
quent rise in prices?”
But it should be noted that
the whole emphasis of Mr.
Robinson’s letter to the Mel-
bourne “Herald” was on develop-
ment. Development means
work —real Work. And pro-
vided real progress is achieved
at the cost of some inflation, no
one will cavil at that. But infla-
tion without progress, as is seen
so much in Australia (particularly
in N.S.W.), is disastrous.
On page 4 of this issue the
immense progress of Canada
over the past 15 years is de-
scribed. That progress has been
achieved with much less inflation
than has been the case in Aus-
tralia. And in the most recent
year for which statistics are
available, only one-seventh \of
one per cent, of the total work-
ing-time available was lost by
strikes in Canada.
, Mr. Robinson clearly is in-
terested in the “freeing” of the
Australian £ as a stimulus to
exports and a curb on imports.
He is an industrialist and an
economist. As such he speaks
with authority. But Australia
has Constitutional and political
problems which differ from those
of other countries, and these
need to be resolved before
economic influences can have the
free play which Mr. Robinson
advocates.
Until Australia discards the
senile policy of security against
everything, to be attained by
rules and regulation and not by
effort, Australia will continue to
have inflation without corres-
ponding development.
Native Faith
pfROM “D.” (in Melbourne):
Probably the most interesting
Letter to the Editor since the war
has appeared in the Melbourne
“Herald” from W. S. Robinson,
who is regarded in Melbourne
as the leader in the Collins House
headquarters of base-metal and
other national industries.
Published on the eve of the
Canberra conference to decide
on measures to halt inflation, the
2500-word letter proved a
stunner. His points:
(1) Inflation is inseparable
from progress, and is far pre-
ferable to a stable stagnation.
More than £lOO million will be
spent on new mining ventures in
the north in the next decade if
there is no deflation.
(2) British deflationary policy
has been adopted because British
leaders consider it best for
Britain; but Britain is an over-
developed and overpopulated
country, Australia is the reverse,,
and deflation will mean disaster
here. The same mentality that
in 1925 sowed the seeds of the
depression now rules Whitehall.
(3) The curtailment of migra-
tion and development by Aus-
tralians who believe in their
country would be economically
wicked.
(4) We must be in the red
pretty well for- the next 50 years
to bring our population up to
the level justified by our resources
and continue development, as
the United States was.
(5) The flow of overseas capital
is far below the level necessary
for the migration intake. Both
the British and Australian £ are
overvalued, and the arbitrarily
fixed rates of exchange bujld a
wall around the nation’s
economy, hastening inflation.
Australia is
tied to what Whitehall demands.
(6) Big development of the
older fields and Mt. Isa, the
discovery of the Mary Kathleen
and other uranium deposits, the
growth of the rutile, ilmenite and
zircon sands to be among our
leading hard - currency - earners,
the finding of, apparently, one
of the world’s greatest bauxite
fields, and other discoveries
which are far from complete,
show there is no country offering
greater opportunities to those
prepared to assist in its develop-
ment ....
It is seldom a man of W. S.
Robinson’s tonnage writes to the
papers, at such length, with such
authority and so lucidly. (In his
ability to write he has the edge
on his peers, since he was once
the financial editor of Melbourne
“Age”)
It was a manifesto of faith in
his country; and I found, in some
talks' in the financial houses of
Collins-street, that it had, ap-
parently, delighted all. (Norman
Myer is one who has lately been
complaining of pessimists
attempting to create a
depression.)
see no conflict
whatever in Robinson’s espousal
of the benefits of inflation with
the Canberra conference to
restrain costs. A rearguard action
against costs is always being
fought in democracies, and the
Canberra meeting draws national
publicity on them.
There is a general admission
that the flow of overseas capital
has not kept pace with migra-
tion; but brokerage-houses in
particular point out that the
indirect flow of capital, especi-
ally by British companies, has
been enormous since the war.
They have brought men, plant,
brains and money.
Significantly, one, which has
poured millions into Australia
since the war, has announced its
maiden dividend of two per cent.
It was Courtauld’s, which has a
robust faith in Australia too.
Rural Production Outlook
(From Canberra)
/COMPARATIVELY . little
politics is apparent in one
aspect of Commonwealth-State
co-operation, the regular meet-
ings of the Agricultural Council.
This fact was stressed by its new
chairman, Primary Industries
Minister McMahon, when he
opened the meetings of the
council in Canberra last week,
and he added dryly that the
council had “proved a model of
how our Federal system can be
made to work.” •
There was some discussion,
however, on the effects of credit-
restrictions, and it was agreed
that they should not hamper or
retard desirable development in
export or import - saving
industries, an aspect which
McMahon said was being
watched closely and without
complacency. The real problems
lay in assessment of rural pro-
duction to meet Australia’s com-
ing needs and to provide the
margins essential for export
incomes. It was announced that
by 1960, when the population
would probably exceed 10
million, we would need to
increase present export earnings
by about 20 per cent.
In the opening session the
Minister had declared that the
need for continued expansion of
rural industries was as great now
as in 1952, when the council
“embarked on a positive pro-
gramme designed to expand pro-
duction.” The final communique
on that subject said the council
did not consider that expansion
should take place regardless of
costs and market opportunities,
and that policy should concen-
trate on making agricultural
production more efficient, and on
demonstrating that increased
production need not be high-cost
production.
During the talks there was
some stress on recent good
seasons, but most of the
delegates, rightly or wrongly,
were prepared to give major
credit to the “vigorously grow-
ing rural economy,” and to
declare that the upward trend
of productivity (31 per cent,
greater than pre-war and six per
cent, greater in 1955-56 than the
record volume of the previous
year) was due mainly to farm
development and improvements.
Many- major rural industries
have shown record production
during the last year, and the
figures supplied to the council
were reasonably impressive,
although perhaps less than some
other countries in their per-
centage of increase.
The delegates were warned of
the continuing problem pre-
sented by the disposal of U.S.
farm surpluses through tech-
niques which, in the Minister’s
words, “make competition on
normal commercial terms
extremely difficult.” He claimed
that some proposed transactions
had been appreciably modified as
a result of Australia’s repre-
sentations,, and that such repre-
sentations would continue where
our interests were endangered.
He declared also that in fram-
ing it's anti-inflationary measures
the Government had tried to
protect the rural export
industries against increased costs
where practicable, but admitted
that increases in internal freight-
rates and in other costs were
“disturbing.”


GEOLOGIST
Vacancies open for
qualified and experienced
Geologists for uranium
prospecting with established
and well financed Company
operating in Northern
Territory.
Subject to satisfactory
trial period successful
applicants will be offered
long - term contracts at
attractive salary.
Reply:
BOX 4402, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
mm.Bßimii
«J 1» MVVONIIIOn J-K
ftiwfluytucut
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
m
p
Prices from
r 29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
t 0 R V I V IVIVIIVl (t« ! Tl« III II I
MORE THAN
HALF
A MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE
CHEQUE
ACCOUNTS
WITH THE
“WALES”
To open a cheque account,
call at any branch of the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
(INCORPORATED in nbw south wales with limited liability)
A5612C
Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
AND AUGERS
SILOS
# Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
# Easily erected permanent
# Rodent and weatherproof
# Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
# Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
) Segmented con-
struction for easy
assembly
• Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
• Vertical sets
complete with
wall brackets,
chute tubes,
FAUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type
for standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided)
£l3B.
WRITE fdr further in-
formatin and Agents'
Names to Dept. No. B
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
200 Bushel Silo
250 „ „ (Elevated)
500
1,000
2,000
2,000
3,000
3.500
4.500
8.500
(Squat)
£47
£93
£79
£136
£2OB
£2OB
£271
£294
£447
£709
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
' Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia) Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SSAX/56
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
■CINANCE MINISTER
T WATTS’S “holdfast” Budget
was an anticlimax.
The Minister had done a good
job over the last six months in
preparing public opinion to
accept a tough Budget.
In speech after speech, and in
his annual economic survey,
presented a few days before the
Budget, he stressed the funda-
mental need to reduce spending.
Quite properly, he did not
hesitate to enforce that reduction
on the private sector.
When doing so he promised
to prune the Government’s own
spending to essentials.
Now he proposes to spend
from the Consolidated Fund £7
million (including £2 million
supplementary) more than was
spent last year, and from the
Social Security Fund £2.6 million
more than was spent last year.
In addition, he estimates that
capital works will cost £4.3
million more than they cost last
year.
After allowing for the fact
that New Zealand is still, in the
Minister’s words, a pioneering
country and must provide for a
rapidly growing population, it is
difficult to avoid the conclusion
that whatever pruning has been
done should have been done
with better effect.
In his economic survey Mr.
Watts said: “Excessive demand
for available goods and services
remains the principal economic
problem.”
In his Budget speech he said:
“Consumption and development
are now at a higher rate than
New Zealand can maintain with
safety.”
There can be no doubt of the
truth of these statements, especi-
ally in view of the likely con-
tinuation of an adverse trend
in terms of trade.
Restraint on the private
sector is,' properly, to be con-
tinued through control of bank-
credit, capital issues, building
and hire-purchase.
It would be more palatable if
the Government had made an
obvious effort to curb its own
spending.
Tax Changes
No tax-concessions were
expected. They would have been
inappropriate. It was clearly a
time to maintain taxation, cut
spending and freeze the surplus.
As it is, Mr. Watts expects to
reap in total taxation from all
sources a record £251.8 million,
£7 million more than last year.
Taxation a head goes up from
£ll3 17s. 2d. to £ll5 18s. 7d.
In 1939 it was £23 9s. 2d.
Only two tax-changes are
made:
Last year’s income-tax rebate of
20 per cent., with a maximum of
£75, is reduced to 10 per cent., with
a maximum of £4O.
Special depreciation tax-allowances
for plant and machinery are discon-
tinued forthwith.
Increased taxation would
have been accepted with greater
resignation if the Minister had
given a firm undertaking that
the extra revenue would not be
spent by the Government itself.
To have any disinflationary
effect the money should be used
to buy overseas securities or to
reduce the Government’s in-
debtedness to the Reserve Bank.
True, Mr. Watts estimates
surpluses of £3.7 million in the
Consolidated Fund and £l.l
million in the Social Security
Fund, a total of £4.8 million.
But there is no guarantee of
any real overall surplus.
Last year the Consolidated
Fund surplus was £4.1 million
and the Social Security Fund
surplus £1.2 million, a total of
£5.3 million. But the Public
Account revealed an overall cash
deficit of £ll million.
Could that happen again?
If increased taxation were con-
sidered necessary for disinfla-
tionary purposes it might have
been obtained in better ways
than those adopted.
Middle Incomes
The loss of half the income-
tax rebate hits hardest the
middle-income group, which for
many years has, relatively, been
losing ground.
More important, it affects the
careful saver just as severely as
the foolish spender.
And it brings the Government
in only an extra £3.5 million.
The loss of special depreci-
ation allowances will check
expansion of desirable as well
as undesirable enterprises.
As a disinflationary measure
a stiff tax on luxuries, not only
liquor and tobacco, but many
qther items as well, appears to
have much more in its favor
than other forms of tax.
It could be applied directly
and selectively so that the effect
would be largely confined to
activities least desirable in the
national interest and to goods
which could best be done with-
out. It could be used with equal
effect against imported and
locally manufactured goods. It
would ensure that those who
persisted in dissipating the
nation’s resources would at least
pay for the privilege of doing so.
To the extent that people chose
to pay the tax by continuing to
buy luxuries it would reduce
excess purchasing-power pro-
course, that the Govern-
ment did not spend the money
itself. To the extent that people
refrained from buying luxuries
because of their higher cost it
would encourage saving. To the
extent that consumption of
luxuries was reduced an in-
creased proportion- of the
national resources would be
available for essentials.
The view was widely held that
the Government intended to
introduce some such taxation,
and there is little doubt that it
would have been accepted, if
not happily, at least as
reasonable.
The Budget is the first for
seven years not to record some
reduction in tax-rates. The in-
creases now imposed will, if
things go well, give the Govern-
ment a little leeway for vote-
catching concessions just before
next year’s election.
The “pay-as-you-earn” tax-
system is to be investigated by a
special committee and the Gov-
ernment hopes to introduce the
required legislation early next
year. PAYE would make pos-
sible the remission of all, or at
least a major part, of one year’s
taxation, and is possibly being
saved as election-bait.
Investment Interest
The Budget contained a few
points of special interest to the
investment market.
Some companies, planning
plant-extensions, may have been
disappointed by the cancellation
forthwith of the special depreci-
ation tax-allowance. However, jin
view of the knowledge that the
allowance was to cease in March,
1957, at the latest and last year’s
warning that it would be
reviewed at this time, most of the
companies concerned have no
doubt taken the precaution of
placing firm orders on which the
allowance will continue.
The expectation that the
Government would seek another
internal loan later this year,
probably in October, is con-
firmed. Mr. Watts says that the
loan will be “smaller,” but it may
well be close to £lO million.
A modest amount of over-
seas borrowing was also
expected. It now appears that
the Government intends to raise
about £5 million in this way dur-
ing the coming year.
The Government intends to
conduct open-market operations
at appropriate times in an
endeavor to level out short-
term variations in the prices of
its own stocks. It has been
common belief that the Govern-
ment often supports the market,
particularly to pave the way for
new issues, but the Minister
states that very little such buy-
ing has in fact taken place.
A proposal to provide for
short-term fixed deposits at the
Post Office Savings Bank is
commendable. It will certainly
result in' the transfer of sub-
stantial sums of money at present
held by the Post Office at call
and to the extent will increase
the Government’s interest bill,
but it should also encourage
some new saving. In any case
many small investors who main-
tain static or growing balances
at the Post Office over long
periods are entitled to a better
reward than they are getting at
present.
Butter Price
Apart from the Budget, the
most important economic news
of the last fortnight concerned
increases in guaranteed prices of
.8706 d. a pound for butter and
.9073 d. a pound for cheese. The
increases will cover advances in
farm and factory costs and will
restore part of the reduction
which Was made last year. The
decision is a compromise in that
pressure for distribution of an
estimated trading - surplus of
between £2 million and £3
million for the 1955-56 season
has been resisted. In view of a
possible recession in export
values it would plainly have
been unwise to distribute the
surplus as well as increase the
price. In the 15 weeks before the
new prices were announced the
loss on United Kingdom sales of
butter was more than £1.5
million.


Does your WILL i still express your intentions?
Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Imerporofed in Victoria in 187 t
TR34.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable thalt you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over 77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H, Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Shareholders in this growing
giant have received modest rewards
from their sizeable contributions to Aus-
tralia’s industrial strength. B.H.P. divi-
dends over the last 10 years have averaged
only 8.5 p.c. on capital, largely raised at
a stiff premium, while the co. and its
subsidiary group has gained fame more
as a national asset and institution than a
particularly profitable investment.
Since the war, paid capital has increased
by £14.4 million, bringing in over
£7 million of premiums as well, but the
remarkable growth in the group-assets
over the same period (from £29.8 million
to £105.2 million) has been financed
mainly from undistributed profits.
Favorable operating conditions pre-
vailed during the year which ended on
May 31, and, with a minimum of indus-
trial disputes, enabled improved produc-
tion in practically all sections of the co.’s
extensive undertaking:
Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Steel Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons, Tons.
Newcastle 807,365 686,773 995,255 894,493
Port
Kembla .1,045,436 1,062,939 1,272,365 1,114,850
Total,
1956 ..1,852,801 1,898,197* 2,270,322’* 2.009,348
To tal,
1955 .. 1,853,028 1,857,233* 2,138,363* 1,892,188
* Includes Whyalla.
Although demand still exceeds supply in
some cases, the great shortages of recent
years have been steadily overcome, but
not without an increase in costs and
prices.
Gross working-profit of the group for
the term was £7,559,393 higher at
£21,486,751, and, after providing
£5,603,634 (up £1,594,614) for taxation,
£6,719,343 (up £1,670,805) for depreci-
ation and putting away £2,995,000 (up
£2,157,000) for increased plant-replace-
ment costs, net earnings were £2,187,892
higher at £6,529,006:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Working pro-
fit.. .. £12,474,818 £13,927,358 £21,486,751
Divs., etc. .. 507,290 681,674 786,738
Total . . £12,982,108 £14,609,032 £22,273,489
Depreciation 4,367,635 5,038,538 6,719,343
Provision plant
replacement . 852,000 838,000 2,995,000
Taxation .. 3,512,243 4,009,022 5,603,634
Other exes. .. 397,197 403,603 475,958
Total exes. £9,129,075 £10,289,163 £15,793,935
Net profit .. 3,853,033 4,319,869 6,479,554
Profit, sale assets 33,897 21,245 49,452
Following a showing of 16.3 p.c. in the
previous term, earnings represented
23.4 p.c. on paid capital, or 10.8 p.c.
of shareholders’ funds. A div.-rate of
10 p.c. appears to have been established
after last term’s 9.16 p.c.
The balance-sheet gives an indication
of the co.’s great strength and size:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
B.H.P. ——v Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.t
£ £ & £
1951.. 20,852,300 14.443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
1952.. 24,944,196 16,786,052 2,336,221 17,134,832
1953.. 24,969,074 17,553,565 2,358,463 26,758,048
1954.. 24,969,074 19,753,496 2,462,928 30.394,974
1955.. 26,698,190 23,377,798 2,496.536 33,970,747
1956.. 28,337,586 29,346,630 2,593,064 44,951,482
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1951.. 26,389,915 10,593,218 3,001,402 9,717,330
1952.. 32,407,341 14,341,154 4,590,866 9,891,940
1953.- 41,019,273 19,145,534 6,072,277 5,402,066
1954.. 46,905,758 20,429,614 5,726,316 4,618,784
1955.. 51,642,019 21,503,971 6,453,341 6,943,940
1956.. 66,586,406 24,775,399 8,031,893 5,835,064
* Including proportion reserves, f Includes tax
and replacement provisions.
Reserves now exceed paid capital by
over £1 million, but payment of the
final call on the contribs. will lift capital
to £29,962,889 in October of this year.
Drawing a little assistance from the
bank (overdraft up £881,501) and creditors
(up £1,492,215), surplus earnings and
“provisions” provided most of the funds
needed to bring fixed assets up by
£14,944,387 to £66,586,406 (after deprecia-
tion), debtors (up £1,578,552) and stocks
(up £3,271,428) also increasing. At
balance-date the provision for increased
cost of plant-replacement stood at
£4,685,000.
Less than 12 monfh&jafter the opening
of the huge continuous hot-strip mill at
Port Kembla in August, 1955, the co.
announced plans to erect an additional
blast-furnace equal in capacity to any in
the world. Estimated cost is £9 million.
Over the next four or five years replace-
ment of obsolete plant and equipment
and additions to existing plant will call
for expenditure somewhere in excess of
£65 million. Contributing shares will
be fully paid in October, and another
issue may be expected; but it seems
likely that most of this large sum will
be obtained by ploughing-back the
surplus profits remaining after a fairly
frugal distribution to shareholders.
The market prices the £1 shares at
435. 6d., to return 4.6 p.c., while the
contribs. with a 10s. liability are bring-
ing 325.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
THE run of beer-production figures
over the last few months pointed to
a less profitable showing by brewery
companies generally, but the lower output
(as reflected in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures) could hardly have
prepared shareholders for the abrupt
tumble of 60-year-old Ballarat Brewing’s
profits last year.
After setting aside £33,500 (down
£1684) for depreciation, £31,947 (down
£18,703) for income-tax, and writing-off
something over £64,000 (mo’re than
£14,000 than in the previous term) against
the year’s expenditure on renovations and
maintenance of hotel properties, the co.
wrote its consolidated net profit £43,346
smaller at £55,730, which, after covering
preference dividends, was only 8.4 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 17.1 p.c., 13.8 p.c.
and 12.1 p.c for the three preceding
terms:
f Dividends ,
A B
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
May, Profit. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £££££’
1951..65,054 7,500 1,662 37,500 8,942 692,250
Surplus sale plant, £2157 .. .. 694,407
Deferred lease premium, £5725 .. 700,132
Profit sale hotel, £48,212 .. .. 748,344
7i p.c.
1952.. 50,007 7,500 6,250 87,500 747,100
Consolidated Figures.
Profit sale plant, £449 .. .. 748,257
Deferred lease premiums, £4533 .. 752,790
1953..76,265 7,500 6,250 37,500 25,015 777,805
Transfer to p. and 1. a/c, £24,656 .. 753,149
Profit sale assets, £15,097 ~ .. 768,246
Tax overprovided, £41,599 .. .. 809,845
1954.. 82,856 7,500 6,250 37,500 31,606 841,451
Profit sale assets, £6494 .. .. 847,945
Purchase rebate, £6923 .. .. 854,868
Net addition reserves, £1739-.. .. 856,607
8 p.c.
1955..99,076 7,500 6,250 40,000 45,326 901,933
Profit sale assets, £7870 .. .. 909,803
Tax overprovided, £2405 .. .. 912,208
Net reduction reserves, £926 .. .. 911,282
1956. .55,730 7,500 6,250 40,000 1,980 913,262
Held at 8 p.c., the ord. div. was thus
cleared by only a very harrow margin.
Public reaction to the higher excise-
duties (increased by 2s. Bd. a gallon to
9s. lOd. a gallon) was much more
immediate and severe than the fall in
production indicated at the time. Accord-
ing to the chairman, beer-consumption
straightway dropped by more than 30 p.c.,
although since the initial show of buyer-
resistance sales have picked up a little.
Earlier in the term the co. also had to
reckon with “almost wintry conditions”
extending over the Christmas season to
the end of January, which is normally a
period of very brisk trade for hotels.
Costs were also troublesome. Sugar
and labor were dearer, and a road-
transport tax was introduced by the State
whose licence-fees, too, were automatically
increased by the heavier Federal duty.
Altogether, Commonwealth and State
Governments last year collected 59.9 p.c.
of the co.’s total income of £2,342,826.
To meet the position the co. says it is
well under way with a reorganisation
programme which will cut costs to „ a
minimum. Plant has been kept in excellent
working-order, and last year the switch-
over from wooden to steel kegs was com-
pleted. Enough of the lighter and more
durable steel casks are now available for
all but “peak-time” needs. While further
improvements to hotel-properties are
planned, taxation and high building-costs
have delayed some projects and forced
the co. to abandon a number of others.
Including 21 hotels taken over in 1953,
when it bought the Volum Brewery Co.,
Geelong, the co. owns over 100 hotels in
Victoria and the N.S.W. Riverina. Since
the Volum Brewery purchase most of the
old Geelong plant has been scrapped
and replaced by modem equipment. Last
term the net addition to plant, etc., was
£46,270. Depreciation 'allowances and
sale of one Ballarat freehold reduced the
book-values of breweries and hotels *by
£4331:
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 500,000 500,000 600,000
Reserves . . . . 841,451 901,933 913,262
Mortgages .. 60,000 650,000 650,000
Unsecured notes .. 222,016 222,016 222,016
Overdraft .. 396,082 32,517
Creditors . . 109,318 109,323 67,474
Tax provision .. 42,731 55,001 31,880
Final div. .. 29,375 31,875 31,875
£2,440,973 £2,620,148 £2,689,024
Breweries, hotels . 1,625,254 1,677,008 1,672,677
Plant, etc. .. 351,242 374,028 420,298
Shares other cob. .. 347 347 11,000
Stock . . . . 147,182 133,946 116,998
Debtors, etc. . . 315,389 335,273 839,051
Cash, etc. .. 1,569 99,646 29,000
£2,440,973 £2,620,148 £2,589,024
To cover the outlay on plant, etc., increase
its shareholding (up £10,653) in the
Manufacturers Bottle Co. of Victoria and
reduce its trade debts (down £51,849),.
the co. drew on cash and investments
for £70,546, lightened stocks (down
£16,948) and went to its bankers for
£32,517. Because fixed assets absorbed
more, working capital at May 31 was
£331,303, down £41,263 on the figure at
the opening of the term.
At 275. the £1 ords. are priced to yield
5.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. The 6 p.c.
prefs. last fetched 18s. and the 5 p.c.
prefs. 15s. 6d. to return 6.6 p.c. and
6.4 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover
is £l3 7s. “A” prefs., £l2 7s. “B’s” and
565. 6d. ords.
Metropolitan Life
WRITING ordinary, industrial and
general business in the three eastern
States and South Australia 60-year-old
Australian Metropolitan Life made better
progress last term, and, at the triennial
valuation on December 31 last, disclosed
a satisfactory surplus of assurance funds
over actuarial liabilities.
Biggest improvement during the year
was in the ordinary life department.
Mainly because industrial' business is
much more costly to administer —collec-
tion of premiums is mostly a door-to-door
matter —ordinary contracts offer greater
benefit to policyholders.
In all, 9001 new contracts (6000
industrial and 3001 ordinary) were put
on the books during the year assuring a
total of £2,259,792 (up £289,432), of which
ordinary accounted for approximately
71.8 p.c. (£1,623,450, up £259,986) and
industrial for 28.2 p.c. (£636,342, up
£29,446). Ten years ago the ratios were
39 p.c. ordinary and 61 p.c. industrial.
Excluding £18,838 tax-refunds and
£8026 “profit on realisation,”, combined
income of the two departments for the
year was £53,855 stronger at £970,453.
Premiums amounted to £744,732 (up
£45,128) and interest, dividends, rents,
etc., to £225,721 (up £21,756). After
paying £703,772 (up £62,382) claims,
expenses (including depreciation, taxation
and staff-fund contribution) and distri-
buting £9254 to shareholders, £284,291
(which includes the non-recurring items
mentioned previously) was added to the
statutory life funds, bringing them to
£5,317,205.
This table shows how income, claims
and expenses of the individual life-
departments compare over the last five
years:—
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds-t
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 318,421 107,067 58,077 153,277 2,087,124
From General Dept., £lO,OOO .. 2,097,124
1952.. 354,107 142,390 65,328 146,389 2.243,513
1953.. 410,717 137,256 84,072 189,389 2,432,902
Tax refund, £5661 . . . . \ „o<, 701 o 656 623
1954.. 461,613 152,899 90,654 j
Tax refund, £9211 Y 2,665,834
Profit on realisation, £4318 .. ..2,670,162
1955.. 519,468 172,685 103,816 242,967 2,913,119
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1950, £3293; 1951,
£3461 ; 1952, £3884; 1953, £4282 ; 1954, £4756;
1955, £5698.
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds-t
1951.. 433,327 194,168 124,310 114,849 2,210,376
From General Dept., £4OOO .. .. 2,214,376
1952.. 432,774 231,132 136,784 64,858 2,279,234
1953.. 447,018 254,405 136,909 65,704 2,884,988
lax refund, £7368 .. •• t qkq 9 376 991
1954.. 441,983 277,502 130,496 J
Tax refund, £9627 2,385,918
Profit on realisation, £3708 .. .. 2,389,626
1955. . 450,985 299,368 137,157 14,460 2,404,086
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1950, £1800; 1951,
£2OOO ; 1952, £2462 ; 1953, £5760; 1954, £3000;
1965, £3556.
Last term commissions and management
expenses took 23.7 p.c. (up 1.1 p.c.) of
premium income in the ordinary, and
36.85 p.c. (up 2.05 p.c.) in the industrial,
so the improved net interest return (up
3s. 3d. p.c. to £4 Bs. p.c.) on mean funds
was welcome.
The new business written in 1955 in
the general or accident department, which
belongs to shareholders, gives promise of
more rapid expansion in future. Includ-
ing a tax-refund of £ll4, the surplus was
£7612 greater at £142,233, of which
depreciation took £3O, staff-fund contri-
bution £BlO and dividends to shareholders
£5746. The remaining £1026 lifted
reserves to £135,647, of which £6827 is
for unexpired risks.
Acquisition during the year of a 12-
story building, Ascot Chambers, at the
corner of Queen-street and Edward-street,
Brisbane, sent investment in freeholds,
etc., up £135,647 to £317,212, equal to
5.6 p.c. of total assets:
1954. p.c. 1955. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £204,667 3.8 £317,212 5.6
Public securities, etc. 3,522,628 65.2 3,635,461 63.7
Shareholdings, etc. . 1,134,747 21.0 1,176,459 20.6
Mortgages .. . . 205,607 3.8 223,111 3.9
Loans-on policies.. 192,976 3.6 207,546 8.9
Book debts . . 117,121 2.2 142,167 2.5
Cash .. .. 21,945 0.4 6,912 0.1
£5,399,691 £5,708,868
Public securities (up £112,833 to
£3,635,461) account for 63.7 p.c. of assets,
and shareholdings (up £41,712 to
£1,176,459) for 20.6 p.c. The latter
include the scrip in two subsidiaries,
Metropolitan Accident, Fire and General
Insurance Co., Ltd. (paid capital, £29,340),
and Union Investment Co., Ltd. (paid
capital, £185,894), profits of which are
brought to account to the extent of
dividends received.
John A. Gilbert Holdings, Ltd.
recent years the sustained
demand for Holden cars and utilities
has provided the distributors of these
vehicles with handsome returns'. John A.
Gilbert Holdings is one of this fortunate
band of (Sydney) Holden distributors. In
common with several fellow-dealers, the
co. gained its public status by offering an
indirect interest in a profitable proprietary
co. of similar name. 1
First listed on ’Change in Jan., ’55, the
co. controls a number of subsidiaries
concerned with the sale of new and
used vehicles and the financing thereof.
Passenger-transport also contributes to
income through the subsidiary Bus


DAVIES & C.OLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
36in,
■
'
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters*
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”)
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Account for the year ended 30th June, 1056, with Auditors’ Report.
2. The Net Profit amounts to
to which is added amount brought forward
Making a total of
From this amount the Directors have made the following appropriations, viz.
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. ..
„ Interim Dividend on Preference Stock at 2% paid February, 1956,
in Australian Currency
„ Interim Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% paid February, 1956,
in Australian Currency
leaving a Balance of
which it is proposed to apportion as follows:
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2% in Australian Currency .. .. £42,347 0 0
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% in Australian Currency .. , .. .. 205,293 8 0
„ carry forward to next year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •. 224,998 3 8
£472,638 11 8
3. In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the year’s operations as shown in' the Profit and Loss
Account have not been materially affected by items of an abnormal character. •
4. The sum of £510,000 being premium, less issuing costs, received on the new issue of shares has been
credited to Reserve Fund, thus Increasing the Fund to £3,610,000.
5. During the year Branches have been opened at Springvale in Victoria; 391-3 George Street, Sydney, and
Braidwood in New South Wales; Chermside in Queensland; and at Whitemark, Flinders Island. The Receiving
Offices at Windsor in Victoria; Charlestown. Eastwood and Swansea in New South Wales; and Upper Hutt in
New Zealand, have been converted into Branches. The Branch at 318 Flinders Lane has been incorporated into
the business of Melbourne Office.
6. The Directors desire to record their deep regret at the death, during the year, of their late esteemed
colleague, Mr. S. T. Edwards, and their appreciation of the service rendered by him as a Director of the Bank.
At the invitation of the Directors, Mr. F. S. Vine has accepted a seat at the Board to fill the casual vacancy
thus created. o
7- In accordance with the Articles of Association, two Directors retire by rotation at this Meeting, viz.,
Messrs. W. S. Reid and C. F. Meares. They are eligible for re-election, and have given the necessary notice of
candidature.
8. Owing to his temporary absence abroad, Mr. Ernest Fookes tendered his resignation as an Auditor of
the Bank, and the Directors appointed Mr. E. E. Fookes to fill the casual vacancy thus created. The Meeting
will be required to elect two Auditors for the ensuing twelve months.
The Transfer Books will be closed from 5 p.m. on 6th August until the 21st August inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
Melbourne, 31st July, 1956. EDWARD COOK, General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As at 30th June, 1956
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency')
tooo, iuo u
, 206,559 4
£50,000 0 0
42,347 0 0
197,281 18 11
6
£762,267 10 7
289,628 18 11
£472,638 11 8
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares
of £lO each .. .. £3,000,000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares
of 10/- each .. .. 7,000,000
£10,000,000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital-
-211,735 Preference Stock
Units of £lO per unit .. £2,117,350
8,211,736 Ordinary Stock
Units of 10/- per unit .. 4,105,868
Paid-up Capital .. £6,223,218
Reserve Fund (used in the
business of the Bank) .. 3,610,000
Final Dividends proposed
payable, August, 1056 .. 247,640
Balance of Profit and Loss
Account .. .. .. 224,998
Total Stockholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities, including provisions for
Taxation and Conting'encies . .
Notes in Circulation ..
Balances due to Other Banks
Amount due to Subsidiary Company ..
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in
regard to obligations of Customers
and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
1956
£10,305,856
190,841,285
5,102
32,974
100
£201,185,317
9,605,490
£210,790,807
ASSETS
1956
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve
Bank o£ New Zealand Notes and
Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks
Money at Short Call in London
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market
value) —
Australian Government £18,849,477
Other Government .. 1,170,902
Local and Semi-Govern-
mental Authorities.. 207,702
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit w
Stamps ..
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted
(after deducting provision for Debts
considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at
cost, less amounts written off)
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Com-
pany (at cost). (The Subsidiary
Company has not traded at any
time, and has made neither Profit
nor Loss; its only Asset is a Deposit
of £lOO with this Bank)
Liabilities of Customers and others on
•Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra
£12,488,710
8,731,839
612,752
2,906,250
500,000
20,228,081
26,248,000
14,651,219
175,472
£86,542,323
109,392,210
5,250,684
100
£201,185,317
9,605,490
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
In respect of the year ended 30th June, 1956
1 (Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency )
1956
To Expenses—Head Office, 712 Branches
and Agencies (including Directors’
Fees £4,445/11/4)
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes
~ Balance, being Net Profit for the
Year carried down
To Reserve Fund
„ Amounts written off Bank Premises
~ Dividends —
Interim paid Feb.,
1956 .. .. £239,629
Final, proposed pay-
able August, 1956 247,640
„ Balance carried forward
£5,509,836
765,226
555,708
£6,830,770
£50,000
487,269
224,998
£762,267
1956
By Discount and Interest earned, net
Exchange, Commissions and Other
Income after deducting Interest Paid
and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on
Bills Current at balance date and
Appropriations to the credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and
Doubtful Debts has been made)
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
£6,830,770
£6,830,770
£206,559
555,708
£762,267
£524,998
I, EDWARD COOK, General Manager of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and
that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Account of the Bank are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons wh!o are the Directors of the Company at the date of
the Statement: WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Manufacturer, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour Miller,
Melbourne; COLIN FORSYTH ME ARES, Solicitor, Melbourne; NORMAND HILL, Wool Broker, Melbourne;
FRANCIS SEYMOUR VINE, Manufacturer, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable
for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 31st day of July, One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-six.
Before me— EDWARD COOK.
D. W. STRIDE.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence ■ Act 1928.”
We, VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, of Melbourne, being Directors of THE
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance
Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company’s affairs, and that the Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true an,d correct view of the results of the
business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
Dated at Melbourne this 31st day of July, 1956. V. Y. KIMPTON.
' COLIN F. MEARES.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
To the Stockholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF ApSTRALIA LIMITED. Melbourne, 31st July, 1956.
Ladies and Gentlemen, 1
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 30th June, 1956, and that
in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of
state of the Company's affairs and that the Profit and Loss Account is properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year, according to the best of our
Information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
The London Office Return to the 30t.h June, 1956, duly audited by Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., has been
submitted to us, the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers and
Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all the
Information and explanations we have required.
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen, Yours faithfully.
E. E. FOOKES, W. S. PHILIP, Chartered Accountants (Australia).
Lines of Aust. Pty., which
operates a fleet of buses between
a number of N.S.W. country
centres.
Since the accounts were ruled-
off paid capital has increased by
£22,616 to £437,479 following the
purchase of a suburban tyre-
distributing firm. The 3-for-10
par issue announced this month,
together with the 8000 ss. shares
offered to employees, will bring
in £i 18,244, lifting paid capital
to £555,723, of which £50,000 is
in 6 p.c. prefs. participating in
divs. to 8 p.c. The new capital
will not be fully paid until the
end of the current term, but
earnings claimed in the latest
accounts would cover a con-
tinued 15 p.c. distribution on the
higher figure with over
to spare.
During the year ended March,
’56, the number of vehicles sold
rose by 193 to 2550, giving total
revenue a lift of £304,796 to
£3,078,564. Trading was more
profitable, too, the percentage of
profit (before tax) to sales
increasing from 5.5 p.c. to 6.3
p.c. After providing £79,638 (up
£27,354) for taxation and allow-
ing much the same as last term
for depreciation (£15,256), net
profit was £15,646 higher at
£115,991:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends— Re-
Mch. Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.*
31, 6-8 p.c. •
& & £ £
1965 100,345 4000 15 p.c.=39,092 92,893
Share issue expenses, £2171 90,722
Profit sale assets, £9322 .. 100,044
1966 115,991 4000 15 p.c.=66,426 155,609
* Subject to intangibles, £92,754,
31/3/’66.
Atfer providing for the pref. div,
profit showed a return of 30.7
p.c. on the enlarged ord. capital
(against 36.9 p.c. in the previous
term), easily covering the extra
£17,334 required to maintain the
15 p.c. Reserves have benefited
by the capital-profit resulting
from the sale of Bus Lines’
property, at Mittagong and
Nowra, and now exceed
intangibles by £62,855.
The new capital raised during
the term was used to obtain
short-term hire-purchase agree-
ments and, with the finance
subsidiary, Credit and Guarantee
Pty., getting under way during
the year, debtors’ balances have
more than trebled, rising by
£305,971 to £442,743, at which
figure they comprise over half
the tangible assets of the co.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Pref. capital .. £50,000 £50,000
Ord. capital .. 260,620 364,863
Reserves .. 92,893 155,609
Share application 104,243
Mortgages . . 28,517 23,355
Overdraft .. _ 26,504
Creditors .. 56,036 118,557
Deposits . . 33,765 29,059
Provisional tax 63,750 135,925
Final div. .. 21,546 31,061
£711,370 £934,933
Freeholds .. 59,386 65,020
Leaseholds .. 30,065 / 37,576
Plant .. .. 70,870 62,928
Stock .. .. 179,376 229,926
Debtors .. 136,772 442,743
Cash, etc. .. 142,147 3,986
Goodwill, etc... 92,754 92,754
£711,370 £934,933
Despite the sale of country
properties, the book-value of
freeholds and leaseholds rose by
£13,145, and further additions
will follow; the formation of
John A. Gilbert (Northside) Pty.
since the end of the term involv-
ing the purchase of existing
business premises. New show-
rooms are planned at Lakemba,
with extensions to premises at
Five Dock and Kogarah.
Heavier stocks (up £50,550) have
also contributed to the rapid
growth of assets (over 31 p.c. in
12 months), the funds provided
by new capital and reserves
being supplemented by £26,504
from the bank and an increase of
£62,521 in creditors.
Expecting strong competition
in a reduced market, the
directors do not anticipate the
current term to show an
improved profit, but they are
confident of a continued 15 pc.
div. Following the conversion
of certain properties from lease-
hold to freehold, a valuation of
all land and buildings is to be
obtained, giving, it is expected,
a value well above that shown in
the balance-sheet.
After covering the tightly-held
prefs. there was a net tangible
cover of ss. 6d. for each ss. of
paid ord. capital at the end of
the term, sales at 9s. 3d. giving
“rights” a theoretical value of 3s.
3d. At the “ex-rights” price of
Bs. 3d. a return of 9 p.c. would
be obtained from a continued 15
p.c. div.
Cape Range
[From Jj. Owen]
A GAS-STRIKE, with colors
of oil, was detected in Cape
Range No. 3a well at 3634 ft.,
and a siltstone core, recovered
from that depth, gave a strong
positive reaction to a flame-test
carried out at the surface.
This is much more encourag-
ing, of course, than uneventful
drilling through a thick, column,
but the Wapet management, in
reporting the indications of oil
and gas, very wisely pointed out
“that oil-showings had appeared
in other wells drilled in the area
and had subsequently been
demonstrated to have little
significance.”
This prudent attitude is more
than justified by the fact —not
yet generally recognised in Aus-
tralia—that traces of gas and /or
oil are almost übiquitous in any
thick sedimentary deposit, and
it was backed up when a forma-
tion-test, carried out between
3596 ft. and 3634 ft., failed to
reveal any significant amount of
gas or oil.
More disappointing still to
anyone of the opinion that
the Birdrong sandstone acts as a
normal reservoir-sand .is that this
stratum has not been encoun-
tered, to depth, in No. 3a well.
It was struck at 3605 ft. in Rough
Range 1 and at 3640 ft. in Cape
Range 2, and this has led to the
suggestion that 3a is running low
structurally, which is quite
possible, as both extrapolated
surface-structure and geophysical
interpretations have proved mis-
leading in the Carnarvon Basin.
This is to be expected from the
geological history of the area,
but it is equally probable that the
Birdrong sandstone has petered
out in the Cape Range dome
under No. 3 location.
Northern Hercules
CHAREHOLDERS in
Northern Hercules, N.L.,
have agreed to increase the
nominal value of their shares
by 2s. 6d. a share. The original
10s. a share has all been called
up and spent, as explained in
B. 15/8/’56 and B. l/8/’56.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Although serious things held centre-
stage this week —the Suez Canal top-level
talks, Premiers’ conferences and the like
—the more frivolous and playful kept
merrily on their way, relieving tension
and generally helping some good cause.
There were many fashion-shows in
Sydney, including one at the Trocadero
which had an Olympic Games motif,
with a Grecian ballet and a shapely
torchbearer to open it. The clothes at
this show were by Beril Jents and the
proceeds in aid of the Deaf, Dumb and
Blind Children.
☆, ☆ ☆
The Motor Show’s main attraction for
women seemed to be Lady Docker’s
Daimler, its ornate gold trimmings,
cut-glass decanters, fitted gold radios,
cosmetic-set, etc., the negation of all
the conservative, rich “good taste” for
which the Daimler has stood. There were
more sighs for the magnificent stream-
lined Rolls-Royce, sold for £9OOO since
the show opened.
☆☆ ☆ ■
Amateur musical-comedy societies have
been active recently. The Hordernian
Entertainment Unit, which draws its
members . from Anthony Hordern’s
immense staff, put on “Our Miss Gibbs”
for three nights during the week.
Although not much of the dialogue came
across to the audience, it was a pleasure
to see the crisp, fresh costumes (particu-
larly in the Moon Scene) and to note the
high standard of looks and deportment.
The comedians carried off most of the
hohors, Toby Hynard and Rhoda Ray-
mond acting with vitality, and Keith
Drinkwater in a small part showing the
others how to be relaxed and at home
on the stage. The ensemble-work and
stage-management were quite creditable.
Brian Richardson was the producer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another group setting out on the
musical-eomedy-production road is the*
Waverley branch of the Catholic Youth
Organisation. • They had full houses for
their two performances of “Masquerade”
at St. Charles Hall recently, with pro-
ceeds donated to Waverley, College.
Noted Judge Hibben in - the audience,
Dr. and Mrs. S. John Honner, Mrs. John
McDermott, Mrs. David Morgan (Rose
Bay), Mr. and Mrs. Bud Macken (whose
son Tony had a part in the show), Mr.
and Mrs. J. H. Pelly (whose son Noel
did the producing), and Mrs. Ailie
Hagon (Rose Bay).
V V V
By the way, the Elizabethan Little
Theatre Group, recently formed, is having
a buffet-dinner and a musicale at the
Royal Empire Society rooms next Satur-
day’ August 25. The group will work
for the Elizabethan Theatre, and has
representation of societies covering 1000
members.
☆ tt ☆
Wednesday was a busy day, with a big
committee-meeting in the morning, an
at-home given by the Women’s Auxiliary
of the Royal Empire Society, when
Madame Roberto Regala, wife of the
Ambassador for the Philippines, gave a
talk on life in Manila, and her small
granddaughter Skippy sang a group of
songs in Filipino dialect.
Next came the reception to American
pianist Istomin given by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra committee at the
A.B.C. Concert Department. Eugene
Istomin is a young man of decided ideas,
who, though devoted to classical music
himself, concedes to Frank Sinatra the
title of “great artist.” He says that there
will always be a smaller section of the
community to appreciate serious music
than to patronise the lighter type. “And,”
he adds, “it is a mistake to imagine that
the man-in-the-street in Europe likes
Beethoven any more than his counterpart
in America or probably Australia.”
After that there was the late-afternoon
reception given by Consul-General for
Korea Dr. Hoon Kim and Mrs. Kim at
their Darling Point home. The party
was to celebrate Korea’s Liberation Day,
the formation of the. Republic and the
anniversary of Dr. Syngman Rhee’s
inauguration as President.
## ■ V
Next was the great round-up for the
party at the Paddington Town Hall in
honor of Dame Mary Gilmore’s 91st
birthday. The proceeds were in aid of the
Chair of Australian Literature, which
Dame Mary said was as dear to her as if
she were its mother. Dr. Colin Roderick
was M.C.; Professor Wesley Milgate
principal speaker, and Leslie Haylen,
M. proposed the toast to the guest-
of-honor, with Gertrude Melville, M.L.C.,
seconding it.
There must have been about 600 at the
party, including musicians Alfred and
Mirrie Hill; poet R. D. Fitz Gerald (to
whom a special tribute was paid);
members of the South Coast Bush Band,
who sang bush ballads with gusto (“We
get so much ‘voice production’ these
days,” said Dame Mary, “that we are
beginning to forget what real singing is
like”); Mrs. Rose Lindsay with her
daughter Jane Glad ; 80-year-old Simon
Hickey, who used to be Speaker in the
N. Legislative Assembly ; three boys
from Sydney High, who made a presenta-
tion on behalf of the school; Mr. and
Mrs. Muir Holburn, presenting selections
from Dame Mary’s poems; the Garth
Fishers, who gave a bouquet of daphne
and a cutting from the 91-year-old poplar
at Merryvale, Roslyn, planted by Dame
Mary’s parents when she was born ; three
charming little aboriginal girls wearing
angora pixie-hoods ; George Manuel and
Russell Cooper, who sang songs by Dame
Mary; and Walter Stone, who, with
W. E- Fitz Henry, did the organising.
Audrey Minett, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. A. Minett, of Killara, recently
celebrated her coming-of-age by entertain-
ing a number of young friends at a party
at Girraween. Audrey, who is on the staff
of the N.R.M.A., says that her one
ambition in life is to become an air-
hostess. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
An unusual tribute was paid to
Dame Mary when a special copy of
Australian Bush Ballads, beautifully
bound in blue and gold tooled-leather,
was presented to Gilmore House at
Randwick Home Science School on
Dame Mary’s birthday. The book was
presented by Mrs. Lucy Cassidy, who
had it bound by Mr. G. Samuels and
autographed by well-known writers and
educationists, including Dorothea Mac-
kellar, Hugh McCrae, Kenneth Slessor,
Douglas Stewart, T. D, Mutch, Dr. H. S.
Wyndham (Director-General of Educa-
tion), the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Donald McLean. W. E.
Fitz Henry, Pixie O’Harris and Marjorie
Quinn.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Literary Luncheons held each
month at the Royal Empire rooms seem
to be quite the place to go now. Mr.
James Meagher was speaker last week,
his subject Such Is Life, by Tom Collins,
Which he described as a “satire manque”
which just missed its ultimate aim because
of its author’s essential kind-heartedness.
Dr. Roderick was there, also Professor
Milgate, educationist Donald Maclean,
child-psychologist Isabel Mackenzie,
O. D. Bisset, J. C. Bongers (treasurer of
the Chair of Literature Fund), Judy Law-
less and Winifred Hindle (taking an hour
off from instructing budding Ophelias,
etc.), and Imogen Whyse (with the news
that the Poetry Society now has 256
members). Speaker next month will be
James Macaulay.
☆ ☆ ☆
The inter-’Varsity women’s hockey
competition has brought to town this
week teams from Hobart, Brisbane, South
Australia and West Australia, which, with
the Sydney teams from both Sydney
University and the University of Tech-
nology, means about 90 girl hockey-
players. Patti Moran, third-year science-
student, is captain of N.S.W. and was
captain-manager of the team which toured
N.Z. last year. She is putting-up four
W.A. students during the competition,
and others who are entertaining visitors
are Moira Bott and Sonya Cooley.
MELBOURNE
At the State Government’s reception
at the Royale Ballroom to mark the
centenary of the University Mrs. A. G.
Rylah assisted Premier Henry Bolte and
her husband receive the guests. She
wore a bouffant frock of iridescent-grey
organza over pink. Her tiny petal-cap
was of shell-pink braid.
It was one of those occasions on which,
sartorially, men can have a day out. The
magnificent gold embroideries on the
black gown of University Deputy-
Chancellor C. M. Gilray outshone his
wife’s ink-blue lace frock and matching
hat. The silver-bedecked black gown worn
by Vice-Chancellor Prof. G. Paton out-
glittered his wife’s simple black velvet
frock. The vivid scarlet of the gowns
worn by atomic-scientist Sir William
Penney and Qpelong Grammar Head-
master Dr. Darling muted even more
the black ensemble chosen by Mrs. Darl-
ing. There were emerald-green hoods and
bands of olive-green highlighting black
gowns. The brown-and-black-hooded
scarlet gown worn by vice-chairman of
the Professorial Board Prof. A. B. P.
Amies gained contrast from the frock,
patterned in mauve and blue flowers,
worn by his wife.
Among those at the reception were
Mr. Jack Wedgwood and his wife,
Senator Ivy Wedgwood ; Sir Albert and
Lady Coates ; Professor and Mrs. Brian
Lewis; Lieut.-General K. Smart and
Mrs. Smart (she wearing a black gown
with a white fur-trimmed hood, represent-
ing her degree from the University of
British Columbia); Archbishop of Mel-
bourne Dr. J. J. Booth and Mrs. Booth ;
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring; Sir Samuel and Lady
Wadham, Lady Grimwade, Lady
Dunstan, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. Constance
Day and Mrs. John Newton ; Lady White
and her daughter Mrs. Henry Bennett.
Dulcie Gray, who came from London
to play Laura in “Tea and Sympathy,”
which opens shortly at the Princess, was
born in Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, the
daughter of a judge. At 17 she worked
her way (as a child’s nurse) on a cargo-
boat to England, where she spent two
years at a dramatic-art school. Dulcie
and her actor-producer husband, Michael
Denison, have appeared together in a
number of British films. She recently had
a detective-novel accepted for publication.
The pair's last stage-appearance in
England was in “Love Affair,” a comedy
she herself had written.
Lady Brooks chose the Dr. Isabella
Younger Ross Memorial Fund as the
worth-while cause to benefit from the
fashion-parade which she and the
Governor attended at Menzies Hotel.
The vice-regal party was met by the Lady
Mayoress (Lady Selleck), the president of
the Isabella Younger Ross Appeal (Dr.
Doris Officer) and Mr. Neil Rogers
(whose firm, La Petite, organised the
parade and provided the glamorous
fashions).
Lady Brooks wore a pastel-pink satin
gown embroidered on the bodice with
tear-drop pearls and diamente, and a
white Arctic-fox stole. Lady Selleck
allied an ice-blue tulle skirt and an ice-
blue and silver brocade bodice. Her
daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, matched
the flat bow of pink satin seen through
the filmy black tulle of her skirt with a
wide satin stole. Dr. Doris Officer chose
a black lace gown mounted on pale-beige
satin, and Mrs. John Buckland, who was
in the vice-regal party, wore a Ming-blue
satin stole over her blossom-red silk-
organza gown. Mrs. Neil Rogers, who
designed the gowns in,the parade, wore a
sheath of white satin embroidered all over
with rhinestones, crystals and pearls.
Seen at the parade were Dame Mabel
Brookes, Lady Bridgeford, the Mayor and
Mayoress of Kew (Cr. and Mrs. C. J.
McCarthy), Mrs. Dudley McDougall and
her daughter Jill Palmer, Mrs. Eccles
McKay, Lady Connelly, Lady, Tait,
Madame Mario Vigano, Mrs. Leo Curtis
and her sister Mrs. W. McGowan, Mr.
and Mrs. Hilton Nicholas, Mrs. Betty
Alcock ajnd Dorothea Ganley.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Save the Children Fund will benefit
from proceeds of a luncheon and hat-
parade held at Ciro’s. Mrs. Douglas
Harper headed the organis.ing-committee,
which also comprised Mrs. J. Todd, Mrs.
H. Matthews, Mrs. J. Saleeba, Mrs. A.
Dugdale, Mrs. R. Hayes and Mrs. E.
Caldrey. Hats came from the Herta
Maria Neuhaus salon. Among those at
the luncheon were Miss Kathleen ilaxton
(ofganising-secretary of the fund), Lady
Holyman, Mrs. Bettye Fitzgerald, Mrs.
Alfred Fowler and Mrs. “Bing”
Molyneux.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Erwin Fauser, president of the
South Yarra auxiliary of the Y.W.C.A.,
with her husband entertained at a late-
afternoon party at their Toorak home
so that plans for the Y.W.C.A. Olympic
Year Fair could be discussed. This will
be held on September 7 at the Town
Hall. The auxiliary will stock and staff
the Christmas Decorations stall on which
there will be many novelties. There will
also be remnants of material, jewellery,
stockings, sports-wear, sports-goods and
Olympic souvenirs on sale, and the Fair
will feature an International Food stall.
Cr. Maurice Nathan will open the Fair
at 12,30 p.m. Leading sportsmen and
sportswomen will be present at the
official luncheon, and at night there will
be a dance in the Lower Town Hall.
Ticket-secretaries are Gwen Millist
(XU4651) and Janet Edgar (XL1631).
☆ ☆ ☆
Anne Howett was responsible for the
lovely pink-and-white blossom effect at
Majella for the late-afternoon reception
to welcome-home Sir Bernard Heinze
(who has been touring New Zealand)
and to meet American pianist Eugene
Istomin. Guests were received by Dr.
David Gale on behalf of the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra subscribers’ com-
mittee. This was the first opportunity
for the committee to congratulate Sir
Bernard on his appointment as Director
of the N.S.W. State Conservatorium.
☆ ☆ ☆
Before the first race of the M.R.C.’s
meeting at Flemington Mrs. R. V. Gove,
wife of the club’s chairman, entertained
at luncheon Lady Burston, Mrs. G. R
Davis-Goff (wife of Capt. Davis-Goff,
R.N.Z.N.), Mrs. L. F. Donnelly (wife
of Major L. F. Donnelly, U.S. Air Force
Attache), Mrs. A. H. W. von Freytag-
Drabbe (wife of the Dutch Naval
Attache) and Mrs. N. Evans, Mrs. John
Reilly (wife of the M.R.C. secretary).
Mrs. George Madden, -Mrs. W. Pultne'
Mein (her husband is deputy-chairman ot
the club) and her daughter Mrs. Phyllis
Nicholas, Lady Wells, Mrs. R. S. Weln)>
and Mrs. W. J. Seymour.
CANBERRA
Canberra House, the lovely home ot
the High Commissioner for the United
Kingdom and Lady Holmes, will be the
setting for a novel fete on October 6.
Proceeds will go to the Red Cross to
aid the appeal for the new wing of the
Lady Gowrie Home. Lady Holmes,
who is president of the A.C.T. division
of Red Cross, has enlisted the support
of wives of diplomats in Canberra and
local Red Cross workers to form a
committee who are all working for this
gala day. . , ,
Each room of Canberra House is to be
made-over as a stall, and three architects
are planning ideas for the decor. There
will' be many entertainments, including
puppet-shows and pony-rides for the
small-fry. The band of the Royal Military
College will add color and harmony to
the occasion.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES DOUGLAS DUGGAN late of
Balgowlah.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
FRANCES DUGGAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2434 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Register
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 29th of October 1956 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR GORDON BELL late of
“The Willows” Hume Highway Yagoona
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that NORMA FAY BELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1651 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 19th day of October 1956
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from VICTOR HAROLD BENSON,
Solicitor. 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ftolltu'd....
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
WJA
mm
mail
Wmmi
2111
I.VSS^^gp.«go/r44.
*r. 9 r _===22 > i
K
ii» v •’».. • o "‘-«°
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
T5T.47.12
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Schmidt-Isserstedt
Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt —here
for his second tour gave two
contemporary works their Aus-
tralian premiere at the subscrip-
tion-concert with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra at the
Town Hall.
Wolfgang Fortner’s “Capriccio
and Finale,” composed in 1939
and said to be “in the style of
Hindemith,” is thematically poor,
with one partly-redeeming
feature in its acceptable rhythmic
scheme.
The other work, Martinu’s
Oboe Concerto, seems to have
been devised to provide the
soloist with a thorough testing-
out of his pulmonary-cwm-digital
equipment. Jiri Tancibudek gave
a superb display of virtuosity.
His control during headlong-
speed “aerobatics” made light
of the manifold technical diffi-
culties with which the concerto
abounds, and his tone in the
brief reflective phase was beauti-
fully rich and mellow, especially
where he descended to the depths
of the register. The orchestra
managed the tricky syncopations
of the finale with confidence.
In Tschaikowsky’s Sixth (the
“Pathetique”) the great climactic
phase of the third movement was
given stirring power by the
massed brasses under excellent
discipline, although before that
the woodwinds had withheld
some of the needed sensuousness
of tone. Amends were made,
however, in the adagio lamen-
toso.
The overture was that to
Weber’s “Der Freischutz,” and
it had notable force and dramatic
fire;
In a subsequent “premiere,”
Schmidt-Isserstedt took the
orchestra and the Hurlstone
Choir through the scenic-cantata
“Carmina Burana,” by German
composer Carl Orff. It is an
exceptionally attractive work,
melodically pleasing and strong
on the rhythmic side, with
towering choruses, rich orche-
stral harmonies and first-rate
writing for the four solo voices.
Its most notable feature, how-
ever, is its immense vigor, sus-
tained from the crashing
tympani-dominated opening to
the final bars.
The text, taken from a collec-
tion of 24 poems by 13th-
century wandering minstrels and
poets, scholars and rebel monks,
is mostly in, v praise of the sen-
suous delights of love. Orff has
grafted muscles on to the sensu-
ousness and, using a mixture of
old and new idioms, produced
a work that is unique in the
secular-choral sphere.
An unusual provision is for a
male alto, in a song in which a
roast cygnet forlornly recalls the
days when it swam on a lake.
This was sung by Harry Bond
to good effect. Betty Prentice’s
flexible coloratura was heard to
best advantage in the solo
which confesses to wavering
between love and chastity.
Florence Talyor and Stewart
Harvey filled the contralto and
baritone parts adequately.
Choruses were generally of
good quality and weight, though
the tehor-section was a little
light at times. The choir showed
admirable response to the con-'
ductor’s vigorous call for full-
blooded climaxes, and, better
still, to his adjurations for fine
shading-away of tone.
♦2* *♦+ ♦!*
Norman Chinner
Norman Chinner’s latest trip
to Brisbane brought two choral
works by Vaughan Williams,
composed 10 years apart, but
linked in theme by the war-
years. The “Song of Thanks-
giving” celebrates the end of
fighting in 1945, and it has all
the trappings of a choral work
written for a grand occasion. A
large adult choir and a children’s
choir are supplemented by a
soprano soloist and a speaker
who declaims pieces of Shak-
speare and the Bible.
All this is set off by a tingling
orchestral score with impressive
fanfares of brass instruments.
Time has treated this music very
gently, and though the occasion
for which it was written seems
a long 10 years off, it sounds
neither pretentious nor jingoistic.
The narration was spoken with
great dignity by John Nash, and
the performance had an air of
novelty and freshness that owed
much to the conductor’s lively
direction.
Then came the cantata “Dona
Nobis Pacem,” a more sub-
stantial work, in the form of a
calmly impassioned prayer for
peace, written in 1936,
swords were being sharpened all
over Europe. Here Norman
Chinner marshalled his choral
forces in the Queensland State
and Municipal Choir (a clumsy
title) in a stirring account of
music in which the echoes of
marching feet are far
distant. Morris Williams’s bari-
tone was grave and effective in
Walt Whitman’s “Reconcili-
ation” and in a stark setting of
John Bright’s words about the
Angel of Death ; and the mood
of the whole work was set by
soprano Margaret Moore, who
intoned with a sense of urgency
the moving prayer with which
the work opens and closes.
Two orchestral pieces by Elgar,
the “Froissart” Overture and the
String Serenade, showed that a
choral conductor can enjoy him-
self with an orchestra, and should
not be chained to his choir all
the time.
D. J. M.
♦j*
Katherine Dunham Dancers
Driven from Melbourne Tivoli
in Bourke-street by an earth-
quake of reconstruction,
Katherine Dunham has fled with
her team of dusky bacchantes to
the Princess in Spring-street,
where some of the more dark
and sombre ritual dances of the
West Indian jungle have been
replaced by prancing from the
zone of ancient Spanish influence
—Brazil, Vera Cruz and .other
places.
There is the same incessant
rhythm, the same relaxed danc-
ing and the same looseness of
form which keeps the show fluid.
Vanoye Aikens, in a Moorish
bolero from North Africa, is
worth watching, and so is Len-
wood Morris in a gasping, rush-
ing dance from the Congo.
If anything is gained, some-
thing is lost in the second half
of the programme, where the
modern American influence
creeps in.. There is a feverish
quality about “Americana” and
there is a lot of noise and move-
ment in “Cakewalk,” but none
of the negro relaxation. In its
natural state the negro dance is
never exhibitionist. This is. As
a spectacle, however, it is
terrific.
Shaw Centenary
From London: The centenary
of Bernard Shaw’s birth has
passed quietly, almost perfunc-
torily. Tributes were few and
specific. Interest was slight. Can
it be that the sage of Ayot St.
Lawrence is now but a dying
memory? And that his 60-year-
long profusion of creative work,
so far from winning immortality,
is gathering dust on the library-
shelves, saved from neglect only
by the social-historian and the
drama-student or occasional
producer?
One remembers exciting
Shaw-seasons between the wars,
and even a “Back to Methu-
selah” cycle in the late ’forties.
Yet, for the 100th - birthday
anniversary London could offer
nothing more ambitious than an
ad hoc matinee performance of
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession”;
and it was left to the provinces
(the Bristol Old Vic and the
Birmingham Repertory) to pro-
vide what was only the sem-
blance of a season —at the, parent
Old Vic during the four weeks
when it is normally closed.
Neither production revealed
anything more outstanding than
a good school-of-acting stan-
dard, with performances of
mixed quality buttressed by a
stiffening of experienced older
playfers. In “Major Barbara,”
the Bristol company came off
rather better than the play, while
the reverse occurred with
“Caesar and Cleopatra.” The
Birmingham Rep. chose the pro-
logue (instead of the palace-
courtyard scene which Olivier
preferred for the Festival of
Britain production five years
ago) and were fortunate in
having, in Kenneth Mackintosh,
an actor of sufficient calibre to
invest the God Ra with the essen-
tial supernatural dynamism.
But, after so compelling an
opening, the play slipped into
rough-and-ready histrionics, un-
certain of gesture and desperate
of voice. Only in the last act
did the corporate playing, in-
cluding a Cleopatra of whom it
certainly cannot be said that she
did not hard, achieve dra-
matic force and a unity of
concept.
Just as the quayside and light-
house scenes are weak and, to
any but the most practised actors,
exacting, so are the construction
and psychology of “Major Bar-
bara” respectively crude and
puzzling. Except for the central
character there is no Connecting
link between the affluent flip-
pancy of the Wilton Crescent
Undershafts and the squalor of
West Ham. And, to modern eyes
and ears, Sir Andrew Undershaft
seems no more than a puppet,
decidedly not the omnipotent
tycoon, hypocrite and man of
danger that was intended.
Moreover, Barbara’s conversion
(or, more properly, unconver-
sion) from the spiritual to the
temporal is quite incomprehen-
sible. The one glimmer of light
to emerge discloses Shaw as a
contemporary man - of - the -
theatre. The upper-class back-
ground of the first act and third
act were concessions to the stalls
and dress-circle, enabling him
to interpolate a stark and violent
documentary of poverty, which,
unrelieved, would have meant an
empty theatre. Here the social-
historian take's over from the dra-
matic-critic, and two characters
crying out for development, the
meek Mrs. Baines and the ruffian
Bill Walker (“Wot prahce sel-
vition nah?”), are consigned to
the limbo.
The occasion might have been
better served by a more judicious
choice of plays. But the cold
truth would seem to be that
Shaw’s plays are not as actor-
proof as he claimed they were.
Certainly, he owed far more to
the individual talents of his in-
terpreters than he can ever have
acknowledged, or realised.
H. H.
“After My Fashion”
Brisbane Repertory Theatre’s
August choice, “After My
Fashion,” could have been an
excellent modem drama if the
authoress, Diana Morgan, had
kept her lines clear. Her central
theme was powerful enough in its
own right without the necessity
for a garnishing of Sunday-
newspaper stuff.
From the chance remarks
made at a gathering of the wives
of a group of ill-fated explorers
of a Tibetan desert it is learned
that the expedition was a fiasco
of mismanagement and intrigue.
Not content with presenting a
kind of Tibetan Scott expedi-
tion —so obviously the point of
inspiration for the author—Miss
Morgan clutters her play with a
lot of novelettish nonsetise in
establishing who was whose
mistress, and in making punch-
lines and incidental cliches.
Within the fluster of their
roles, Sheila Storrs and Blair
Hefferan, as wife and mistress of
the illustrious explorer, were
excellent foils, and the characters
they sustained were not in need
of the feeble ending their author
saw fit to bestow upon them.
Val Vallis.
Artbursts
Portraits
Awarded the prize of £l5OO for
the “Women’s Weekly”, portrait
competition, Charles Doutney’s
“Dita,” at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, is undoubtedly
an admirable portrait of a
gatepost.
It is the entrance to a cabaret:
stone gateposts, path, arched
portico ; rococo in color and
architecture, decorative and
quite well painted. In the gate-
way is, presumably, Dita;
painted in the manner of child-
art and quite out of keeping with
the solidity of the setting.
It can only have been given
the prize because the judges
adopted the view that a portrait
should be a decoration ; not, as
of old, a living person. Most
of the artists exhibiting seem to
be working on the same prin-
ciple.
It is wrong if Titian and
Rembrandt were right; wrong if
a work of art is a thing of beauty
to contemplate in quietude
rather than a slash of color on
a wall or a mosaic for the floor ;
and wrong if the essential charm
and value of a portrait is the
mystery of the personality de-
picted. But it is the movement
of the times; there is a grain
of truth in it, since decoration
must always be part of the total
effect; and it does make for
liveliness.
To this commentator’s modest
eye, the painting that nearest
fulfils the proper dual require-
ments of decoration and per-
sonality is Douglas Watson’s
“Leonie,” vividly—if gaudily—
zigzagging in 4 yellow and gold
and at the same time quite
charmingly conveying the per-
sonality of a young girl. Or—
since it, too, is a portrait, though
much stronger in decoration
than in living personality —there
is much, to be said for Judy
Cassab’s “Elaine Haxton,” a
most striking piece of work in
its harlequin colors. Miss Cassab
got the £5OO award for the best
entry by a woman painter.
G. A. Thorley's girl in a
green jumper and slacks, Phyl
Waterhouse’s lady with the
Siamese cat, Michael Kmit's
“Edda” (a sumptuous design for
tiles rather than a portrait) and
J. Carington Smith’s repetitive
“Portrait, 1956” are among other
paintings of merit.
Talkies
“Out of the Clouds” (Sydney
Lyceum): Episodes at London
airport involving in particular
two young Jewish passengers
who are bound for different
destinations, but who eventually
find themselves together, bound
for the same place. There is
also a duty-officer who yearns
to get aloft again, a pilot who
flirts with the idea of a spot of
smuggling, and the air-hostess on
whom both have a speculatory
eye. Fair enough entertainment,
with some fascinating glimpses
of the inside-running of civil
aviation.
/
“A Day to Remember” (Syd-
ney Lyric): Stanley Holloway
and James Hay ter, two experi-
enced character-actors, wring a
fair quota of laughs out of this
neat comedy about a pub darts-
team which takes a one-day trip
across the Channel to Boulogne.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
CHAPTER XXVI
I TOOK Julie to two dances
that year simply because
Mrs. Carson put the matter
to me so nicely.
“The 'Wilsons from Tallobah
have asked her to join thsir
party,” she said. “Would you
mind taking her in with you?
Nita and Claire Wilson will
look after her once you get
there, and I don’t want you to
feel in any way responsible for
her. If she doesn’t get her share
of dances let her sit them out.”
She smiled. “I’m not going to
have her cramping your style.”
“Don’t worry, Mrs. Carson,”
I answered, “I’ll look after her.
She won’t be any trouble.”
After all, I could scarcely ask
Carson for the loan of his car
and then refuse to take his
daughter with me, even though
I had visions of being left with
a nuisance on my hands.
I liked the two Wilson girls,
but I was not particularly keen
on their brother. For a youth
of nineteen he was too fond
of boasting about his drinking,
his prowess with girls and the
record times he had made in his
sports-car.
“You want to keep out of
young Rex Wilson’s car,” I
warned. Julie during the drive
in. “Booze and speed don’t
mix.”
“Indeed!” she scoffed. “As
a matter of fact I went out in
it several times when we were
down at the coast. Rex says he
drives better when he’s a bit
full.”
“Famous last words,” I
muttered, and let the matter
drop. If her parents had allowed
it there was no more to be said.
We had a puncture on the
way in to Dilargo that night.
The spare tyre was flat, and
when we finally arrived at the
hall I was dirty and rather bad-
tempered.
“We’ll go in and find the
Wilsons,” I said. “I’ll leave you
with them-, and then clean my-
self up.”
The last strains of a waltz
died away, the floor cleared and
we made our entry. I was not
aware of it, but the gossip had
started before we were halfway
across the dance-floor.
“You’re late,” Claire Wilson
accused, and Julie explained,
“We had a puncture.”
Rex Wilson, flushed and a
trifle unsteady on his feet, said,
“Most unoriginal, Julie. The
penalty for that whiskery excuse
is the next dance with ,me.”
Reg Stewart came over and
threw a welcoming arm around
my shoulder. “The Man from
Ironbark!” he exclaimed. “Jack
just took-off after a mickey. I
think we’d better go and give
him a hand.”
We excused ourselves and
left.
Half-an-hour later, washed
and in a much better mood, I
returned and claimed a dance
with Carla. I told her about
the puncture and explained that
after handing Julie over to
the Wilsons I had gone up to
her place for a much-needed
wash.
Her eyebrows went up, and
she said laughingly, “Is that
really soap I can smell?”
“It’s rum,” I informed her.
“The finest cleaning - fluid
known.”
I told her, quite truthfully,
that she danced better than any
girl I knew, and she said, “Thank
you, Mr. Anders. It’s nice to
know I have more than one
attraction.”
“You wouldn’t. care to slip
out and join us in a swift snort,
I suppose?” I suggested as our
dance ended. “I’m afraid we’ve
only got rum to offer you.”
“I would not care to slip out
and join you in a swift snort.”
She shuddered. “I loathe rum.
I’m going over to talk to Julie
Carson. She’s grown into quite
an attractive girl, hasn’t she?”
TIJOR a moment I thought she
was being catty, and then I
remembered there was nothing
catty in Carla’s nature. The
idea of anyone describing Julie
as attractive was surprising to
me. The term could often be
applied to Carla. She definitely
had her moments.
I looked her over and decided
thfs was one of them. Tall,
dark and slender, with genuine
beauty in her expressive brown
eyes. Her black evening-frock
emphasised the smooth clear-
ness of her skin, a skin unmarred
by freckles.
Freckles! I glanced across
at Julie. Her hand was on Rex
Wilson’s arm, and she was look-
ing up at him, laughing. It may
have been the light or it jnay
have been a skilful use of make-
up, but her freckles were
scarcely noticeable. Good Lord!
I thought. The kid’s growing up.
Having always looked on her
as a kid it was difficult for me
to see her as anything else. It
seemed as though there were
two Julies —the snub-nosed,
freckle - faced quarrelsome
youngster I knew, and the girl
standing beside Rex Wilson,
pleasure and animation showing
in her upturned face. A long
blue evening-frock gave her a
certain air of maturity and
sophistication without adding
anything to her height. She
would always be small. I was
almost prepared to agree with
Carla’s description of her.
My fears that Julie would
be an encumbrance were un-
founded. She had a partner for
every dance, and when we
finally left for home I asked,
“Have a good time?”
“Marvellous,” she sighed. “I
enjoyed every minute of it,
didn’t you?”
“It wasn’t bad.” I swung the
car out of the main street and
headed for Yakaparni. “It’s
none of my business, of course,
but you’ll be getting yourself
talked about if you make a
habit of having every second
dance with young Rex Wilson.”
“What about you and Carla
Greer?” she countered.
“That’s different.”
“How is it different?”
“Well ...” I fumbled for
the right words. “Rex has got
a pretty crook name around
these parts.”
“And of course Carla Greer
hasn’t!” she flared. “I heard
you two stayed together at the
Pacific when you were on
holidays.”
“There were also fifty or sixty
other people staying at the
Pacific,” I reminded her, tread-
ing hard on the accelerator.
“You’re a nasty-minded little
girl.”
pOUR weeks later we
A attended the Race Club
Ball, the social event of the year,
and this time I studied Julie
carefully before we left home.
She was wearing a filmy pale-
green evening-frock, and in the
soft light streaming from the
dining-room door I was sur-
prised to note that an upturned
nose could be quite attractive in
the right setting.
The impression I got was not
of a freckled face but of a
radiantly expectant face with
freckles noticeable only when
you looked for them. She did
look rather attractive, and since
we had been on friendly terms
for a week or more I told her
so.
. “Oh, Bob,” she exclaimed
impulsively, “do you really
think so? Nice enough for you
to ask me for a dance?”
“If I can fight my way
through the rush.”
“Then let’s book it now, and
you won’t have to fight. You
name it and I’ll keep it.”
“Make it the first, eh?” I
grinned and gave her a fatherly
pat. “Get it over early.”
I expected her to flare-up, but,
surprisingly, she squeezed my
arm and said, “I think that’s a
good idea. You won’t have any
excuse for forgetting.”
Not until we were actually
dancing did it occur to me that
until now I had always danced
my first dance of the evening
with Carla, and even then I
failed to realise that the gossip-
ing tongues would really be
wagging.
“You dance pretty well for
a bushwhacker,” Julie said.
“I was thinking the samei
about you,” I admitted, noting
that Carla was now dancing with
Jack Stewart.
Later in the evening Jack
perched himself on the edge of
Greer’s washtubs and waved a
newly-opened bottle at me.
“Nice sort of a bloke you
are,” he declared. “Leaving me
to square-off with Carla while
you go prancing around with
the boss’s daughter.”
Had anyone else made the
remark I might have been
annoyed, but Jack was a man
who could say anything and get
away with it. He was also my
best friend. I thought of telling
him I considered Carson’s
daughter a cursed nuisance, and
then realised that anything I
said would only serve to lead
him on.
\
“Grown into quite a nice
little filly,” he went on, squint-
ing at the bottle and then pour-
ing me a drink.
“Julie Carson!” I scoffed.
“Good Lord, you drink-sodden,
lecherous old poddy-dodger!
She’s only a kid.”
“Risin’ nineteen, unless I’ve
got me branding-dates mixed-
up.” He shook his head slowly
and sadly. “Makes a man feel
his age, doesn’t it? There’s
you and me, Bob, goin’ on for
twenty-nine. Old enough to be
her grandfathers.”
“You’re full,”' I informed
him. “Put the bottle away and
we’ll go back to the dance. It'
must be nearly supper-time.”
He protested that he was
horribly sober, a lamentable
condition which he sincerely
hoped to remedy before the
night was over.
“We’ll take the bottle up and
shout for Doc.,” he announced.
“The poor old bloke’s up there
all on his Pat Malone readin’
a bloody great tome about dis-
orders of the liver or curried
kidneys or some such thing.”
What we liked about Doc.
Greer was the good-natured
way he put up with us all. He
was fond of his grog, in modera-
tion, and if he thought some of
us occasionally drank too much
he kept his thoughts well hidden.
Usually he went to bed early,
propped himself up
numerous pillows, and read,
though he was always willing to
put the book aside and entertain
visitors.
The open book was lying
across his legs when we walked
in, and as Jack greeted him with
a hearty, “Thought you might
be feeling like a snort, Doc.,”
he blinked and yawned loudly.
“Must have dozed off,” he
said.
We poured three drinks,
added water, and said, “Well,
here’s how, Doc.”
Dr. Greer sat up and took his
glass. He held it up to the light,
studied it for a moment, sniffed
it and then took a long drink.
Slowly a beautifully contented
Smile spread over his face.
“Thash a lovely whisky,” he
declared. “A good mellow
Sco’ch.”
Jack and I stared at each
other. We had poured him out
a generous measure of rum—t
rather harsh rum, to my way of
thinking.
“Nothing like a drop of good
Sco’ch whisky,” Doc. went on.
“Puts a different compleshion on
things. Cheers you up. Maksh
a man feel young again. I mush
shay it’s very good of you boys,
dropping in on an old man like
thish.” He waved his glass
airily. “Mud in your eye!”
The rest of the rum went down
in one swallow. “Mush shay I
—hie —enjoyed that.”
There was no doubt about it,
Dr. Greer was gloriously,
happily full.
“You’re a low heel, Jack,” I
said as we went downstairs.
“You’ve been filling the old boy
up.”
“S’welp me, Bob, I haven’t,”
he defended. “I had two drinks
with him a couple of hours ago
and I haven’t set eyes on him
since.”
“Well, someone has,” I
pointed out. “We’ll have a word
with Reg.”
Reg emphatically denied the
charge. He’d had two drinks
with the doctor, he declared.
Two drinks only.
A check with other members
of the party produced the same
story, and gradually it all
added up. It had just been a
night when, without consulting
each other or announcing our
intentions, we had all thought
it would be a good idea to take
*a drink up to the doctor. For-
tunately he was in bed.
* *
■yuE got top price for the
* * bullocks that year, and
although the buyer had paid
heavily he was well pleased with
his deal.
The bullocks were fat and
contented, quietly bored with
the process of inspection and
camp-drafting. Instead of milling
restlessly when we rode into the
mob they stood placidly chew-
ing the cud.
In most cases it was possible
to work a reject to the face of
the camp at walking pace. Once
clear of the mob a certain
amount of fast work was inevit-
able. The rejected bullock dis-
liked being separated from his
mates. He wanted to double
back and rejoin them, and he
used speed and cunning in his
efforts to escape the horseman
relentlessly pressing him away.
The contest was usually short
and sharp, rarely lasting for
more than thirty or forty
seconds, and invariably ending
in defeat for the bullock. That
bullock might be determined,
but he was up against a com-
bination of horse and rider able
to foresee and intercept his every
move with lightning speed.
Moreover, both horse and
rider loved the game. The
faster the bullock and the more
determined his efforts to escape
the more pleased they were.
The rider showed it by his
ever-widening grin; the horse
showed it by his alertly-pricked
ears, his gleaming eye and the
impatient way he tugged at the
bit. There were times when I
suspected the bullock of enjoy-
ing those short contests, too.
Rustin, the buyer, said to me,
“You’ve got these bullocks well
handled, Bob.”
He was not a talkative man,
not one to throw unnecessary
praise about when he was
pleased with a mob, or run the
BIRD OF LIGHT
I caught the bird—the bird of light,
and put my hands about its wings.
Then, all around, the usual day
shook with mysterious happenings.
Out of the unseen night of space
the colored stars may burst at noon,
but spring was never meant for this:
an angry zone where flower on flower
was tossed by the radiance that fell
over the rapids of the air
to seek and mar the dandelion
and break the rose's subtle will:
I saw the springtime’s lovers turn
from all my mortal strength had done,
that dared to seize on mystery :
the bird that flies out of the sun.
I saw their ghosts; I felt their grief
strike these hands that clasped the light,
but fire like rage, like innocence,
sang from that bird restored to flight.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


GIVE DAD
I V B mm nr
Father’s Day
Dad deserves the best you can buy! And
you’ll find a Gillette Razor Set that ranges
from the luxurious to the practical. Those
containing the quick-action one-piece razor
and quick-feed dispenser combine to give
Dad the speedy convenience of Gillette
Superspeed Shaving for years to come.
SUNDAY
ft
mbk
SEPTEMBER
A
'
m
m
|
M&.M
■
§SS!
c-rv
saF
F.J
faR?
*s3lV
3s&S)te&U”f(f 'ate&sr
Ut'rt'iZz
-
mum
Set No. 54.
Famous Gillette
Rocket Set in
streamlined
case . . . 10/6
Sst Ho. 66. "Aristo-
crat" one-piece Razor
and 10-blade Dispenser
in elegant case. 42/6
Choose from these. and other Gillette Sets
or modestly priced Gillette Dispensers.
Gillette Razor and 10-
blade Dispenser in smart
blue case .... 21/6
START DAD ON
0
m
8156 D
cattle down if they failed to
measure-up to his standards.
He wrote out his cheque when
we went up to the house for
lunch, and when he handed it to
Carson he said, “I once told you
I was prepared to pay for quiet
bullocks. That cheque proves
it.”
WITH the bullocks off our
hands, Carson became rest-
less. He seemed unable to settle
down to any particular job, and
I constantly came on him
staring blankly into space.
“What’s on your mind, Mr.
Carson?” I asked him on one
of those occasions.
“Eh? What’s that?” He gave
a guilty start rather like a small
boy caught stretching his
shanghai for a trial shot at the
family cat. “Nothing on my
mind. Nothing at all.” He
picked up the bridle he had been
mending. “I dunno how these
blasted stockmen of yours
manage to break so many reins,
damned if I do. If it’s not reins
it’s stirrup-leathers.”
“Could be a crook side of
leather you’ve got hold of this
time,” I suggested.
“You may be right, Bob.”
The mildness of his tone sur-
prised me. “I never thought of
that.” He put the bridle down
again and heaved a tremendous
sigh. “I’ve been thinking it
might be a good idea if we went
down to the coast early this
year. It’s the missus. She
hasn’t been too well lately, and
I thought the holiday might do
her good.”
To hide the smile I was
unable to suppress I bent down
and pretended to examine a
loose boot-heel. The fishing bug
was gnawing at him, and for
once in his life he was eager to
get away.
“I think it’s a very good
idea,” I assured him. “There’s
no reason why you shouldn’t
get away at any time.”
He pretended to disagree
with me, pointing out that there
were several jobs he should be
doing and protesting that it was
not fair for the family to go off
and leave me all alone on the
place over Christmas.
“Don’t worry about me,” I
said. “I’ll have old Dan to keep
me company and enough work
to keep me occupied until we
start mustering again.”
Three days later, one week
before Christmas, we paid the
boys off and I drove the family
in to Dilargo. Carson, in his
most genial mood, insisted on
buying us all a beer before the
train arrived, and when we
reached the hotel Mrs. Carson
called me aside and told me I
would find a couple of small
parcels on her bed.
“Promise me you won’t open
them before Christmas Day,”
she said.
“I won’t even go into the
room until then,” I assured her.
“What will you be doing with
yourself on Christmas Day?”
Julie asked me.
I laughed and said, “Loafing
around the house and having
Christmas-dinner in the kitchen
with Dan, I suppose. Won’t be
much else to do, will there?”
“Come on, come on,” Carson
called impatiently. “The train’ll
be here in a few minutes. You
don’t want us to miss it, do
you?”
As he and Mrs. Carson
walked to the car Julie grasped
one of my hands, patted it lightly
and said, “I’ll ring you up.”
CHAPTER XXVII
T\AN was not good company
nor was he a good cook.
His dampers were leaden sods,
and it was a toss-up whether he
allowed a piece of corned-beef
to boil to rags or took it off
before it was half-cooked.
Usually I cooked myself
some eggs for breakfast,
wrapped-up a bit of lunch and
left him for the day.
There were numerous odd
jobs to be done, and whether I
went in the tilly or on horse-
back I took the dogs with me.
They were always good com-
pany. Sneezer sat beside me
on the seat of the tilly and
smiled politely every time I
addressed a remark to him.
Boozer scrambled about in the
back, moving constantly from
side to side. He leered with
excitement at every kangaroo,
every emu, every goanna and
every small lizard we passed.
Though I was constantly
expecting him to tumble off, he
only did it once. That was
when we paced an emu for a
few hundred yards. Tfie fool
of a bird had made up its mind
to join its mate on the other
side of the road, but instead of
crossing behind us it put on a
terrific burst of speed in a deter-
mined effort to cross ahead.
“We’ll give him a run for his
money,” I told Sneezer, as I
opened the throttle.
That bird certainly had a
turn of speed and a feeble brain.
He paced beside us, his long
legs striding like piston-rods and
his absurd tail-feathers flopping
crazily up and' down, as deter-
mined to cross the road ahead
of'the car as I was to prevent
him.
A backward glance showed
Boozer leaning far out over the
edge of the tilly positively
slavering with excitement.
We might have wheeled the
emu had not a bend in the road
forced me to slacken speed a
trifle. That trifle was enough
for the bird. He forged ahead
and crossed the road in an
agitated flurry of feathers only
inches ahead of our mudguards,
Boozer, his view temporarily
blocked, raced madly to the
other side of the, tilly, propped
too late and speared on to his
nose in the dirt.
I thought the fall would have
taken some of the enthusiasm
out of him, but I was wrong.
Though he never fell off again,
he never lost his eager interest
in everything that moved.
QN Christmas morning I
wandered out to the kitchen
in my pyjamas and made myself
a cup of tea. I was sitting on
the step drinking it when old
Dan limped in carrying a
freshly-plucked rooster.
“The missus told me t’ kill
one,” he explained. “Left a
plum-puddin’ t’ be cooked, too.
Writ out a whole lot of instruc-
tions, but I can’t make ’ead or
tail outa them. If y’ ask me I’d
say we’d do "better t’ chuck the
chook in a pot o’ water and
boil it with a lump of corned-
beef.”
“No you don’t,” I told him
emphatically. “Hang it up in
the meat-safe and I’ll do the
cooking. This is Christmas Day,
and we’ll have a really good
feed, just for a change.”
That reminded me about the
presents Mrs. Carson had left,
so' f 'went to her room and
opened them. There were three
parcels—a saddle-pouch from
Carson, a very handsome shirt
from Mrs. Carson, and a bottle
of overproof rum with an
attached card reading, “To help
make your Christmas Merry.
Julie.”
Feeling tremendously pleased,
I took the bottle out to the
kitchen and said, “What do you
think of this for a Christmas-
present, Dan? Get some fresh
milk and we’ll celebrate by
having a rum-and-milk before
breakfast.”
A look of horror spread over
his face, and he held up both
hands as though to ward off
some monster.
“Don’t bring that stuff near
me, mister,” he spluttered, back-
ing away fro.m me until the hot
stove abruptly checked his
retreat. “Take it away. Take
it away. I wouldn’t touch it,
not f’r quids.”
“I useter go f’r it in a big way
once,” he told me when I had
calmed him down. “Useter drink
meself inter the ’orrors every
time 1 cashed a cheque. But I
woke up t’ meself and turned
it in years ago. You go ahead
and ’ave y’r drink if y’ want to,
but if I was you I’d chuck the
bloody stuff away.”
Instead of taking his advice
I helped myself to a jug of milk
and took the rum back to the
front-veranda, where I could
have my drink without upsetting
the old chap.
After breakfast I read the
cooking - instructions Mrs.
Carson had left him. A child
could have followed them, but
having repeatedly listened to
Carson on the subject of Dan’s
mentality, I prepared everything
myself.
“There you are,” I said. “Keep
the fire well stoked-up and
shove him in the oven at eleven-
o’clock.”
A LTHOUGH it was only
eight-o’clock, the morning
was uncomfortably warm. I
tried reading, but, becoming
bored with it, got up and
wandered aimlessly through the
deserted house. Finding that
both boring and depressing, I
helped myself to another rum.
For all the good it did me I
might as well have taken Dan’s
advice and thrown it out.
Shortly after nine the phone
rang. It was Carla, inviting me
in to have Christmas-dinner
with the family. I thanked her
and explained that as I was
cooking a feast for two I would
haver to decline. I tried to make
a little light conversation, but
achieved nothing better than a
few inane remarks about the
weather. f
After that I dragged a
squatter’s chair to the coolest
place on the veranda and tried
to read a few periodicals. I
found them dull and uninterest-
ing, and was staring out over
the garden at the distant blue
(Continued on next page )


Feitth in the
Future
X
m
r' <.
Australia this year is enjoying the widest
interest it has ever attracted from overseas.
That is due in part to the holding of the
Olympic Games at Melbourne in November*
December. But I do not think it is the whole
reason.
Through modern communications in sight and
sound, millions of people are getting to know more
about the real Australia, and many are wanting to
see it for themselves.
Pan-American Airways, for instance, are
distributing a television series on Australia, for
featuring in their programmes abroad.
The Matson Line is coming back to the trans-
pacific run with two new passenger ships. The
great British lines, such as Orient and P. and 0.,
are extending the schedules of fleets that have
already contributed a distinguished chapter to our
national story.
We can welcome these developments; not for
the mere sake of the spending that travel implies,
but for the friendship that the coming of tourists
engenders, and the thought that others want to
share with us the beauties of the Australian scene.
It puts upon us, of course, an obligation to cater
to an excellent standard for our visitors.
In Queensland recently I saw what Lennon’s
Hotel is doing to extend its high-grade services in
Brisbane, at Toowoomba on the Darling Downs,
and along that stretch of sunny coastline from the
capital to the border of New South Wales.
Melbourne is rising to the accommodation
demands of the Games. In Sydney there is much
in promise, but a vast job to be done. Adding it
all together, there is still a lot to be carried into
performance before we will have satisfied the
national requirement in first-class hotels.
But, in all Faith, we must provide them —and
soon—if we are to correspond with the enlivened
interest the world is taking in us and in our
country.
// j
range when I heard Dan’s
limping approach.
“It’s ten-o’clock, mister,” he
announced. “I put the chook
in, like y’ told me.”
I said, “You old fool!” and
hurried out to the kitchen, Dan
hobbling along behind me pro-
testing like a disturbed ducky
hen.
The fire was almost out and
the oven scarcely warm enough
to melt the fat in the baking-
dish. I removed the dish,
slammed 'it on the table and
began to stoke-up the fire.
“You told me t’ let the fire
die down and put the chook in
at ten-o’clbck,” Dan protested.
I kicked the firebox-door
shut and said savagely, “Some-
times I think Carson is right
when he says you do this sort
of thing on purpose, out of pure
spite. 1 told you to keep the fire
stoked-up and put the chook in
at eleven- o’clock.”
He staggered back a couple
of steps and flapped his hands
in agitation. “You said”
“Oh, shut-up! ” I snapped.
“Clear out. Go and read a book
or amuse yourself by pulling up
some of prize plants.
And don’t come near this kitchen
till I call you for dinner.”
The phone was ringing when
I got back to the front-veranda,
and, after numerous requests to
“Hold the line, please,” I heard
Julie’s voice asking, “Is that you,
Bob?”
“I just rang to wish you a
merry Christmas from us all,”
she said. “Did you get my
present?”
“I did,” I assured her. “And
a very nice present, too. As a
matter of fact, I’ve had a couple
of snorts of it already.”
“That’s what it’s for.” A
short pause, and then, “Are you
feeling lonely?”
“I’d be as miserable as a
bandicoot if I didn’t have your
rum.”
Another pause, rather longer
this time. “When I was so long
getting through I thought you
might have gone in to Dilargo
for the day.”
“Never gave it a thought,” I
lied, without knowing why.
“Are you enjoying yourself
down there?”
“Having a wonderful time.
The surf’s heavenly today.
Couldn’t you get down for a
couple of days? We could give
you a spare bed.”
“Don’t tempt me, child,” I
laughed. “Go off and tempt the
sharks instead. I’ve got work
to do here.”
She asked after the dogs, and
when I told her about Boozer
and the emu she laughed and
said, “I do wish I’d been there.”
“I’ll tell you something else,”
she added, when a voice
announced that the three
minutes were up. “I’d rather
be home mustering the bullock-
paddock than staying down
here.”
I said goodbye and hung up.
For some reason I was feeling
in a better mood.
T>Y keeping Dan out of the
kitchen I turned-out quite a
good Christmas-dinner. Even
he admitted he’d tasted worse.
He came in from the garden
when I called him, and after
washing his hands under the
tap said:
“The missus gave me a noo
razor f’r Christmas.”
I was wondering what he had
been doing in the garden, but,
remembering my last advice to
him, I decided not to inquire.
“Yair,” he went on, reaching
behind the wall-plate over the
fireplace and taking out the new
razor. “They won’t get their
claws on this one.”
“Who are ‘they’?”
“Them flamin’ stockmen o’
yours.” He was trembling with
rage or indignation. “They got
at me old one. Took the edge
clean orf it. Cuttin’ up strips
o’ greenhide with it be the feel
of it . . . Aw, no, you wouldn’t
believe it. Y’ always stick up
for ’em. But I seen that bloody
cacklin’ Mick with a noo green-
hide-rope next day.”
I soothed him down and
started to carve the chook.
Jack Stewart rang-up that
evening.
“Just ’eard you were out
there on your own,” he said.
“Me, too. I’m stuck here like
a shag on a rock. Reg is down
in Brisbane, and I’ve given the
married-couple two weeks off.
What say we meet at Curly’s
tomorrow morning and sink a
few jugs?”
“That’ll do me,” I assured
him. “Ten-o’clock too early for
you?”
“Too early!” I had to move
the receiver away from my ear.
“It’s never too early for me.
Still, if you want to spend half
the morning in bed I might hang
out till ten.”
TTE was leaning against a
veranda - post, talking to
Curly, when I drew up in front
of the hotel. The bar was open,
but there were no other
customers in sight.
“She’ll liven up soon,” Curly
predicted.
“We’ll start her off,” Jack
announced, levering himself off
the post. “You’d better have one
with us, Curly. Freshen yourself
up before the mob arrives.”
At ten-thirty Wonga and two
others drifted in, and by eleven-
o’clock nearly every able-bodied
man in the township was stand-
ing behind a glass of beer. There
were stockmen, timbergetters,
fencing-contractors and ring-
barkers, all in to spend Christ-
mas with their families.
Yakaparni’s former head-
stockman, Albert, was there,
drinking with a tough-looking
timbergetter named Barney
Hackett.
I nodded to Albert when he
came in, but he ignored me and
said something that caused
Hackett to glance at me and
laugh ; a loud, particularly
mirthless laugh.
“You want to keep an eye on
that Albert bird,” Jack advised
me quietly. “I think he’s laying
for you.”
“He’? all bluff,” I answered
confidently. “I gave him a
chance once, but he backed-
down.”
“Well, don’t start anything
with his mate.” Jack drained
his glass and pushed it for-
ward suggestively. “He won’t
back-down.”
I reminded him that I was
not in the habit of starting
brawls in pubs or anywhere else,
and he said, grinning broadly,
“Maybe you didn’t start ’em, but
I’ve seen you finish a couple.”
“Let’s get out of here,” he
suggested half-an-hour later.
“I could be wrong, but I just
don’t like the feel of things. It’s
spoiling me beer.”
I nodded. The same feeling
had been spoiling my beer!
Although I had heard none of
his conversation, Albert seemed
to have attracted quite a large
audience, and a number of the
drinkers were glancing in my
direction.
Feeling nervous and uncom-
fortable, I led the way to the
door and was about to pass
behind Albert when he moved
back, so that his shoulder
collided with mine.
■ I might have been able to pass
it off as an accident but for the
sudden cessation of all conver-
sation.
“Yair, Barney,” Albert said,
and in that hushed bar every
word could be clearly heard,
“these bloody useless jackeroos
is all the same. They can’t work
cattle, so they work their ’eads
and try t’ marry the boss’s
daughter.”
I heard Jack’s urgent voice
say, “Not in here, Bob!” as I
hit Albert, first with a left and
then with a right that should
have landed on the point of his
chin.
Unfortunately jt went high. It
spread his already flat nose with-
out seriously cramping his style,
for he came back with a wallop
that completely closed my left
eye.
Through an array of shooting-
stars I saw Curly’s vast bulk
loom up between us. Jack after-
wards swore he vaulted straight
over the bar, an amazing feat
for such a fat man.
“Cut that out!” Curly roared.
“I won’t ’ave no bloody fightin’
in this bar.”
His intervention saved me.
The stars cleared in time for me
to see Albert dodge around him
and let drive with a terrific right.
I am still not sure whether I
sidestepped it or whether Curly’s
upflung arm deflected the blow.
I only know that for a fraction
of a second Albert’s jaw,
streaked with blood from his
gushing nose, jutted temptingly
over Curly’s forearm. This time
I made no mistake. The impact
jarred me from the knuckles to
the shoulder and Albert went
down and out.
Jack hustled me out on to the
veranda, and behind us we
heard Barney Hackett’s voice
imploring, “Git up, Albert, and
finish ’im orf. Strike me dead,
you ain’t even started yet! ’E’s
waitin’ for y’ out on the veranda.
Git up, y’ big-yella stiff.”
Apparently Albert was not
interested. When he finally came
out he was half-carried by
Barney and roughly pushed by
the indignant Curly.
“Take ’im ’ome,” s Curly
roared. “Take ’im ’ome and
pour water on ’im. And don’t
bring ’im back, neither. I’ll
learn ’im t’ start pickin’ fights
in my bar.”
He pulled a large handker-
chief from his pocket, wiped
blood from his arm and strode
back to his bar.
“In the interests of peace,”
Jack announced solemnly, “we
will not follow him. About
every second bloke in that bar
is some sort of a relation of
Albert’s.”
“I didn’t start the fight,” I
reminded him.
“Oh, no, you didn’t start it!
You only got in the first two
hits.” He grinned broadly. “A
very wise move, in my opinion.
But the point is—what are we
going to do now?”
“What about coming out to
Yakaparni?” I suggested. “I’ve
got a bottle of o.p. rum with
only two nips taken out of it.
Didn’t enjoy drinking with the
flies. You could stay the night
and get an early start for home
in the morning.”
“Lead on, Nelson.” He
pushed me towards our cars.
“I’ll follow your dust. And
don’t try any fancy driving with
that one eye.”
CHAPTER XXVIII
'THAT night we lounged in our
-*• comfortable old canvas
squatter’s chairs on the veranda,
the bottle on the floor between
us and the waterbag hanging
under the eaves close by.
Until the evening breeze
sprang-up the night was hot and
still; too hot to do anything
except lie back and listen to
the shrilling of the cicadas in
the garden and the far-off croak-
ing of the frogs along the creek.
If our interest was centred
in anything it was lazily centred
on the big green frog sitting in
the patch of light streaming
from the open door behind us.
His interest seemed to be
centred on a large black beetle,
but, like us, he was too hot or
too lazy to do anything about
it.
The breeze came, first as a
faint murmur in the distant
trees, then as a louder rustling
of leaves in the garden. The
waterbag creaked on its hook,
and the cool air flowed over us.
The green frog pounced, swal-
lowed the beetle and shuddered
in discomfort.
The canvas of Jack’s chair
creaked loudly as he levered
himself up.
“Well,” he yawned, “if he can
rake up enough energy for that
effort I reckon I can do the
right thing about the drinks.
Where’s your glass?”
Inspired by Julie’s present and
cooled by the gentle breeze, we
yarned until after midnight. We
talked of Army days, and we
refought battles; we talked of
droving, of camp-drafting, of
horses good and bad, of dogs
and of wild scrub-cattle.
On the subject of running
scrubbers Jack let himself go.
There was no sport like it, he
declared. The one drawback to
their property Was that it was
too small, too civilised. A man
couldn’t get any real fun out of
it. It was years since he had
thrown a beast.
I told him about the cattle
in our scrubs, and said, “You’d
better come over for a week next
time we have a go at them.”
“You name the starting-day.”
His empty glass came down with
a bang on the arm of his chair.
' “What’s wrong with next week?”
We refilled our glasses, and
settled down to serious planning.
I could get my mustering-team
out and ready to start on the
second day of the New Year,
but Jack would have to wait
until his married-couple re-
turned on the third. He could
drive over that night, and be
ready for an early start next
morning.
“That gives us a day to run
fresh horses in before you
arrive,” I said. “It couldn’t
work out better.”
I wondered what Carson
would think of the idea, and
decided that he would probably
raise a devil of a fuss about
wasting time and money, before
ultimately surrendering. He
always did.
Jack left after an early cup
of tea next morning, and I
settled down to bathe what he
had described as the best stinker
he had seen since the battle of
the Wazzir.
At nine-o’clock I rang Curly
(Continued on page 34)


deserves the support
If JtoJ
Every advantage which a prudent investor seeks
is offered today by Commonwealth Loan
Securities. Income from Commonwealth Loans
is as certain as the sunrise, because regular
payment of interest at a fixed rate is absolutely
guaranteed by the Commonwealth and its vast
resources.
A further unconditional guarantee is given
that funds invested in Commonwealth Loans
will be repaid at full face value immediately the
securities mature —in 1957, 1963 or 1976,
according to the maturity date chosen when
making your subscription.
Net yield, after taxation, is the only sound basis
for comparing one class of security with
another. Special attention, therefore, should
be paid to the Income Tax rebate of 2/- in
every £1 of Commonwealth Loan Interest
included in an investor’s taxable income. This
concession reduces the tax otherwise payable by
10% of Commonwealth Loan interest included
in taxable income.
In every State great projects of immense value
to industry, to the nation’s export trade and to
the well-being of every Australian, urgently
VITAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES DEPEND
ON INVESTMENT IN COMMONWEALTH LOANS
need Commonwealth Loan finance for their
furtherance. Your investment in this Loan will
aid this programme of productive development.
NEW TOMS OF ISSUE- ONE, 7, or 20 YEARS
Investors may choose Bonds or Inscribed Stock as follows:
1. ONE-YEAR SECURITIES
BEARING INTEREST AT
3 3 /a% PER ANNUM
ISSUED AT £99/15/- PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON AUGUST 15,
1957
2. 7-YEAR SECURITIES BEARING
INTEREST AT
5%
PER ANNUM
ISSUED AT £99/15/- PER CENT.
AND MATURING ON APRIL 15,
1963
PER ANNUM
3. 20-YEAR SECURITIES BEARING
INTEREST AT
5%
ISSUED AT PAR
AND MATURING ON APRIL 15 f
1976
Minimum Subscription is £lO for the 7-year and
20-year terms and £lOO i;or the one-year securities.
Applications may be lodged with any bank, savings
bank or stockbroker.
iFor Maximum Return with IQQ% Security
INVEST IN THE
SECURITY LOAN
NOW OPEN
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury,
265U3.145


mm
i :
r
Two ways of looking
at a hold-up ...
It can be a blessing. Take the Stamina hold-up, for example
the elastic waist, self-supporting hold-up in Stamina’s new
style, self-supporting boys’ knickers. Now, there’s something
wonderful! No shirt-waist buttons to worry about; no
troublesome belt; 5 those knickers are adjustable. They
have a button-adjustment on the waist, and a generously
wide hem. They look smarter and they last longer.
ASK FOR
Stamina
ft
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8W8.113
Missing Friends
WOULD any children or grandchildren of
the late ALFRED STEPHENS and MAR-
GARET ANNIE STEPHENS (nee JONES),
who formerly lived at Randwick, New
South Wales, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand?
TO THOMAS ALEXANDER PETERSON
formerly of the Northern Territory but
now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife has instituted divorce pro-
ceedings against you on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards and
that unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Melbourne on or
before the fifteenth day of September 1956
and file an answer in the said office on
or before the twenty-fifth day of Sep-
tember 1956 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs. MOLOMBY & MOLOMBY, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PHYLLIS ITA WEST late of No. 2
“Dalby” Flats 251 Sydney Road Bal-
gowlah N.S.W. And to THOMAS E.
BURGESS late of 94 Ramsgate Avenue
North Bondi, N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that HORACE EDMUND WEST has filed
a. Petition No. 2274 of 1956 praying for
the Divorce of PHYLLIS ITA WEST on
the ground of her adultery with THOMAS
E. BURGESS If you the said PHYLLIS
ITA WEST wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by 15th October
1956 You the said THOMAS E.
BURGESS may also apply t*> the said
Registry before 15/10/’56 to be allowed
to defend A copy of the Petition may
be obtained from A. J. TAYLOR &
STATHAM, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JESSIE ALMA BATES late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MAURICE JAMES BATES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2219
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in Hhe Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 22nd of October 1956 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. PIKE & PIKE,
Solicitors, 141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO REGINALD JOSEPH THOMAS
WALSH late of 23 Bolga Avenue Wagga
Wagga—TAKE NOTICE that IVY MARY
WALSH has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 2889 of 1956 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 26th October 1956 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN
& CO., Solicitors, 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC HILTON FIELDUS late of 249
Pcnshurst Street Willoughby. TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE AGNES FIELDUS
has filed a Petition fdr Divorce No. 2888
of 1956 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 26th October 1956 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN
& CO., Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorck.
TO REGINALD ARTHUR WILLSON late
of Brae Street Waverley.—TAKE NOTICE
that LILLIAN MADGE WILLSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1685 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 26th October 1956 and obtain
a copv of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN & CO.,
Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Malay
Archipelago, by Alfred Russel
Wallace. —6376.
Words of humorous verse “The
Garden of Eden,” in which all nouns
were lisped—“appleth, orangeth and
grapeth.” —6377.
To buy the following books: Aus-
tralasian Facts and Prospects, by R.
H. Horne (1859); Journey of
discovery to Port Phillip, New South
Wales, in 1824-25, by W. H. Hovell
and H. Hume (Sydney, 1837); Brief
statements of facts, by A. H. Hume
(Sydney, 1855) or 111-page reprint,
with preface, 3rd ed. (Yass, 1874);
Exotic Aquarium Fishes and
Aquarium Highlights, by W. T. Innes;
Invalid and Old Age Pensions Hand-
book (Canberra, 1939).—6378.
Words of old Sydney larrikin verse
called “The Push and Me,” contain-
ing the lines:
But when the beer gets ’old of us
There’s some as likes to scrap,
And some as likes blue-metal for to
throw,
But I always says for layin’ out a trap
There’s nothin’ like an empty bottle-oh.-
—6379.
To buy copy of Portrait with Back-
ground, by Alexandra Hasluck
(Geffrey Cumberlege, London);
secondhand, any condition. —6380.
Information Sought
Recipes for (1) parsnip-wine, (2)
honey-beer, (3) , cherry-brandy ?
(1) Parsnip-wine: Take 41b. well-
scrubbed parsnips, lgal. water, and
some brown sugar. Cut-up the roots
(fairly small) and boil until soft in the
water. Squeeze the pulp and strain
off the liquid; to every gallon of this
allow 41b. sugar, dissolve the sugar
in the liquid, then put it into a
wooden cask. In a few days it will
begin to ferment, without the aid of
yeast. When the fermentation ceases,
close the bung tightly, and store for
twelve months before bottling. If
too insipid, add a little citric acid
to each serving. (2) Honey-beer:
Simmer loz. hops in 5 quarts water
for 20 minutes, then strain into a
wooden tub or barrel. Add 4|lb.
honey, stir until dissolved, leave to
cool to blood-heat. Stir in 3 table-
spoons yeast, cover and keep warm.
When fermentation ceases, strain
into bottles, cork, and tie down>
securely. Improves with age. (3)
Cherry-brandy: Distillation (costly—-
and illegal) is necessary for a good
brandy, but a good cherry-drink may
be made by slowly stewing well-
flavored red cherries in water with
a little sugar, and adding pure alcohol
to one’s liking. Allow the liquid to
stand for a few days, strain carefully,
and bottle. Make a small quantity
at a time. With all home-brews, care
should be taken not to contravene the
law, which is very strict in regard
to the alcoholic-content of beverages.
Experiment to suit your own taste
before making a large quantity.
* * * *
(1) Some information on “Mo" ?
(2) Any book written on his life ?
(1) Born Harry van der Sluys (or
Sluice) on Feb. 15, 1892, in Adelaide,
of a Dutch father and English mother,
he lived as a child opposite the
Theatre Royal in Hindley-street,
Adelaide, and was always to be found
around that theatre. His first
theatrical engagement was in Adelaide
in the pantomime “Sinbad the Sailor”
at the age of 8. Then the family
moved to Melbourne, and Mo got a
job at the Gaiety Theatre as “Little
Roy the Boy Soprano.” When his
voice broke he became, in his own
words, “Boy Roy the Would-be
Comic.” At 17 George Harris,
secretary of the Vaudeville Federa-
tion in Melbourne, suggested he ball
himself after Roy Rene, a great
French clown. He got his first big
break at 18, when Sir Benjamin
Fuller invited him to play opposite a
Jewish comedian Jules Jordan. His
most famous partnership was with Nat
Phillips (“Stiffy”), which lasted for
16 years from 1914 and which broke-
up, according to Mo, “owing to a
little misunderstanding and a blue
joke.” But it is standing on his own
that he is most remembered —as Mr.
McCackie, as Henry VIII, as the
Virgin Queen, as Little Lord
Fauntleroy, as the babe in the pram;
remembered, too, for his lisped “You
little trimm-ah!” “Curse my beauty!
“Strike me lucky!” etc. He was one
of the world’s great funny-men; and it
is true, as has been said, that tew
comedians could have held for 40
years audiences in three or four cities,
as Mo did. He died on Nov. 22,
1954. (2) Mo’s Memoirs, by himself,
published in 1945.
Brief Answers
E.R.: (1) Danny Kaye, born in
Brooklyn (New York) on Jan. 18,
1913, is of Jewish descent; he was
born Danny Kominski. (2) The late
A 1 Jolson, born in St. Petersburg
(Russia) in May, 1886, was also ol
Jewish descent; he was bom Asa
Yoelson. (3) Marlon Brando was
born in Omaha (Nebraska, U.S.A.)
on April 3‘, 1924, of old American
stock, originally French on his father s
side... .G.V.K.: (1) Usual practice is
for an'MS. to be returned, if rejected,
when stamps accompany. (2) Should
think you should hear shortly of the
fate of your stories. (3) It wouldn t
hurt to write in and ask. (4) Hardly
likely that acceptance or rejection will
be influenced by your doing so. (5)
Yes, he has rights, but, as with the
other occupation you cite, the rights
depend to an extent on his standing
and the quality of and demand fdr
his work. (6) We won’t buy into
your farming argument, but don’t
tell us all farmers are mugs! *
A. 8.: Write N.S.W. Chamber of
Manufactures, 12 O’Connell-streel,
Sydney E.P.: Write Co-operative
Institute (N.S.W.), Ltd., 129 Bathurst-
street, Sydney... .H.F.: “A Knife for
Stanislaw,” by John Fountain, was
published in The Bulletin of Feb.
24, 1954 M.H.: Write Director of
Pensions, Social Services Department
(Victorian Headquarters), 118 Queen-
street, Melbourne, C.l C.T.S.J.
(Eng.): The article, with the photo
of your son, appeared in Melbourne
“Herald.” (Photo forwarded by
courtesy that paper.) For any further
information write direct to the
“Herald,” Flinders-street, Melbourne,
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
tor payment.]
C.l B.B.: (1) Write The Secretary,
Australian Journalists’ Association,
Hibernian Building, Adelaide-street,
Brisbane. (2) There is no copyright
on a news-item... .E.R.P. (Canada):
Two replies to the query were pub-
lished in the May 30 issue, one of
which quoted the same reference as
yours. Th; iks, anyway, for the
note A.E.N.: (1) “Pieased with
the danger, when the waves ran high
He sought the storms” is from
Dryden’s “Absalom and Achitophel.”
(2) “ O night, And storm, and
darkness, ye are wondrous strong” is
from Byron’s “Childe Harold.” (3)
Unable to trace ; possibly from Pope.
(4) “No rock so hard but that a little
waye May beat admission in a
thousand years”—Tennyson’s “The
Princess.” (5) “Stones of small worth
may lie unseen by day, But night itself
does the rich gem betray”—Abraham
Cowley, “Davideis”.... J.R.: (1)
Unable to trace that there Texan
rustler. (2) Books on the history of
Texas include Texas in the Middle
18th Century, by H. E. Bolton (1915),
Expansionist Movement in Texas, by
W. E. Binkley (1925), Short Grass
and Longhorns, by Laura V. Hamner
(1943), I’ll Die Before I Run, the story
• of the great feuds of Texas, by C. L.
Sonnichsen (1951), and Journey down
the Rainbow, by J. B. Priestley (1955).
... .X.X.: The Australian Broadcast-
ing Commission is not conducting a
competition for a National Anthem,
nor is one contemplated. The A.B.C.
and the Australasian Performing Rights
Association (A.P.R.A.) have been
jointly conducting a Light Music
Composers’ Competition and an
“Olympic” Composers’ Competition,
both of which close on August 24.
, C.W.L.: Write Sydney “Sun,”
Wattle-street, Ultimo (N.S.W.)
Ceg: (1) The original of the painting
“A Long Forgotten Australian
Expedition,” by J. W. Curtis, is in the
Mitchell Library. The costumes,
galleons, etc., are dated -earlier than
any known expedition of exploration
to Australia, and it is probable that
it is an imaginary picture not
necessarily based on fact. (2) The
National Art Gallery of N.S.W. states
that not very much is available on
J. W. Curtis. He was represented in
an international exhibition in
Philadelphia in 1876 and he worked
on the “Illustrated Australian News.”
His oil-painting “Winter Morning,
ML Disappointment,” which was
bought in 1877 for the Gallery collec-
tion, was sold at auction in 1946.
F.T.: It all depends on whether the
carriers are common carriers—that is
to say, whether they are carriers who
are ready to carry for hire as a
business and not for particular people.
If they are common carriers you
cannot compel them to carry, but
you can recover from them any
damage you actually suffered from
their refusal to carry your goods.
J.A.E.: Andrea Doria, after
whom the Italian luxury liner
recently sunk was named, was a
Genoese admiral and statesman. He
lived 1468-1560....5.H.W.: (1) See
George S. Coffin’s The Poker Game
Complete or Hubert Phillips’s Card
Games 1 . (2) Phillips, in the work cited,
says “Only a lunatic stays in to
exchange four cards”... .R.8.N.:
Write Department of Social Services,
52 Carrington-street,- Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.R.G.: Received your firm (but
courteous) protest in blank verse:
Insulting, degrading, humiliating, imper-
tinent !
No more shall this scribe write for The
' Bulletin.
My attention has just been drawn to the
addendum
To heading “Answers to Correspondents”
to effect that
Contributions are only considered for
publication
On the understanding that they may be
cut down,
Altered, disembowelled, mucked about
with
Ad lib., ad nauseam!
Well, not for me, thank you. No, Never.
C.A.: We could not miss this: —
'The model posed in haughty manner,
From head to toe synthetic glamor.
The Dior skirt, across the knees was tight,
so tight—a narrow squeeze.
Upon the bus she fain would go,
But how to reach the step and so?
The crowd stood still and watched her go
To try and reach the step. No go.
A smiling boy bent pick-a-back;
She sat on him and that was that.
But not astride, you may depend,
The skirt would not survive the bend.
He heaved her up; she gained the top.
Oh ! Monsieur Dior! What a flop.
When next you model dresses so
Do give the knees a better go.


On the Queensland Commission's Report
NOOGOORA BURR
By "EL VERDUGO"
COMPARISON of the
report of Mr. Justice
Townley, the jroyal com-
missioner appointed to
inquire into “allegations of
corruption relating to dealings
with certain Crown leaseholds”
in Queensland, with the state-
ment by Mr. Gair, the Queens-
land Premier, shows Mr Gair’s
r£sum£ lacking in much of the
really picturesque detail to be
found in the full document.
In regard to some charges
before the royal commissioner,
there was no evidence which
would prove corrupt conduct,
though the proceedings—as in
the case of the Carpentaria
Downs group of properties—
were, to say the least of it,
Ministerially unconventional.
Anonymous persons showed a
mysterious tendency to ring-up
Mr. Creighton, chairman of the
Land Board, to give him interest-
ing information.
A Mr. F. M. Bell came forward
with the allegation that Mr.
Foley, the Minister, hqd offered
to give him a renewal of a
lease, or give favorable con-
sideration to the renewal of a
lease of the valuable Camboon
stud-property, in return for a
donation of £lOOO to Labor-
party funds. This charge, which
involved corrupt conduct on the
part of the Minister, the judge
found proved. But he was not
prepared to hold that a
person’s having been guilty
of corrupt conduct in one
transaction was proof that he was
guilty in another merely because
of suspicions raised and the fact
that the Ministerial decision in
a matter was “egregriously
wrong.”
+ +
However, there was little
doubt about the position in the
transactions with either Mr. Bell,
who exposed the Ministerial
offer and all the circum-
stances connected with it, or with
regard to the transactions of
Mr. Stanley White.
The commissioner was satisfied
upon the evidence that the
Minister exhibited towards Mr.
White “gross partiality” in
six transactions in respect of
Hawkwood and Dutton River
leases and some suspicion in
regard to dealings with Bladens-
burg, though no proof in this
case of corrupt conduct. But in
two instances of Duttofa River
leases he found the Minister
guilty of corrupt conduct as
well as gross partiality.
In the Hawkwood road-closure
case Mr. Foley acted deliberately
in opposition- to the depart-
mental practice, rules and find-
ing to close a stock-route which
the lessee wanted closed. And
in the case of the lease he
granted it at about half the rent
recommended by the Land
Commissioner and assessors of
the board, and then varied the
improvement conditions to
exempt White from certain
covenants with the department.
But it is the Dutton River and
Nelia Ponds cases which make
the most interesting reading as
showing how the Ministerial
business of the huge land-own-
ing and -leasing domain of
Queensland has been carried on
without raising apparently suffi-
cient qualms in the hearts of the
Queensland Labor caucus, which
is the real Parliament of Queens-
land, to lead to the expulsion or
censure of Mr. Foley, or even to
prevent him from taking part in
a meeting at which" it was
decided to sack the chairman of
the Land Board who had dared
to be his accuser.
Dutton River
The Dutton River lease was
held by the Ruthven Pastoral
Company, which, some time
before September, 1950, went
into voluntary liquidation. White
contracted to buy the property.
On September 12 Foley had
a memorandum sent to the
chairman of the Land Admini-
stration Board ordering that “all
correspondence in any way
affecting Dutton River holding”
be “brought to his attention as
early as possible.”
Fourteen days later White
wrote to the department through
his solicitors stating that he was
negotiating for the purchase of
the Dutton property, asking if
the Minister would consent to
transfer, what intimations would
be required from the transferee,
and whether all development-
conditions and stocking-con-
ditions had been complied
with. On October 10,
after a deferment, the solicitors
advised that a contract had been
entered into. Meantime the
department had assured itself
that development-conditions had
been complied with and that the
lessee was required to maintain
250 square miles enclosed with
marsupial-proof netting and
depasture this area with sheep
throughout the term of the lease.
On October 18 the Minister
put a minute on the papers:
“Bring up when contract of sale
submitted.”
Four days later the contract
of sale for the price of £79,500
was produced. It contained a
clause:
The vendors shall bear all rents,
rates, taxes, assessments, wages and
other outgoings chargeable upon or
payable in respect of said property or
stock thereon up to the date of
completion, and all working-expenses
up to the same date from which the
purchaser shall bear the same.
The contract was placed before
the Minister the same day, with
a request—in the routine
formula —to be advised whether
the transfer was to be allowed
if in order and lodged promptly.
He minuted (after delaying three
weeks): “Certain representations
have been made to me regarding
deterioration of pastures and
improvements on this property.
Procure up-to-date report from
Land Commissioner.”
The liquidating vendor’s
solicitors then asked for urgent
consideration of the application
for transfer, pointing out that
“in the meantime our client
remains personally liable for the
working expenses of the
property,” which were “fairly
substantial.”
In response to an urgent air-
mail letter from the department,
the Land Commissioner reported
promptly on November 20.
He answered the Minister’s
question. He could “see no great
deterioration in pastures, which
were exceptionally well grassed,
both within the netted area and
outside in the cattle country,”
though the season was abnorm-
ally good and the carrying of
stock light. Wool - from the flock,
all wethers, had averaged £173
a bale. Management and
shortage of labor had resulted in
low returns, and in some'cattle
being allowed to go unbranded.
The improvements were in “no
worse state” than lots of other
properties in the district, due to
shortage of labor and materials
and high cost of contract fencing.
The woolshed, huts and home-
stead were good buildings fairly
well maintained and the men
seemed to be fairly well supplied.
The Minister waited till
December 5, and then emitted
this minute
The report does not indicate what
is the most important factor con-
cerning this Government at present —
the extent of burr-infestation. Arrange
visit to report on this aspect.
This did not reach the chairman
of the Land Administration
Board till December 12.
Meantime, on November 28,
there was a record of an inter-
view between White and the
Minister, who had by that time
seen the Land Commissioner’s
report.
White, it was stated, “indicated
his desire to have the matter put
through as early as possible.”
So, it seemed, the Minister
advised him that a report had
been obtained on the condition
of the pastures and that a further
one would be required on
noxious weeds.
+ -F
Strangely enough, though the
Minister looked on White as a
“good Crown tenant with whom
he was not unfriendly,” and
though everybody was eager to
have matters closed as quickly
as *p° ss ible, the file demanding
a report on burr did not reach
the chairman of the board for a
fortnight. And, moreover, while
Foley explained to the chairman
that burr-infestation was the
most important factor, he,
according to the record, had
told White only that “it was
possible a further report would
be required regarding noxious
weeds.”
The Land Commissioner
reported within a week that there
was some burr in the netted
area, but that it was not out of
control nor in the bad state that
existed on other properties on
the Flinders; that £548 had
been spent on burr-destruction
the previous year, and that this
year the rain made the burr
difficult to deal with the
country was flooded.
The Minister then called for
“a report on the extent of
infestation and some outline
of what is required to eliminate
the pest.” And then came some
notations in the Foley record of
eager requests from White’s
solicitors and agents to expedite
the approval of the transfer,
though “it does not seem to have
occurred to the Minister” (wrote
the judge) to “suggest that the
purchaser should undertake to
clean up the burr.”
Six weeks after his request for
the burr report (January 31) —
the Land Commissioner found
himself unable to report in
detail—because of the floods:
“I only saw burr in different
crossings of the creeks.” This
was read by the Minister on
February 12, but he made no
notation.
Then on February 26 the
vendor’s solicitors wrote pointing
out that the agreement for sale
had been lodged with the depart-
ment nearly five months before
with a request for urgent
attention, and “at the time of
execution our clients were
advised that it was usual for the
decision to be given within two
weeks of the lodgment of the
application.”
They pointed out that their
clients in liquidation were
losing £3OO a week by the delay,
apart from being deprived of
any interest or other income
from the station and stock
thereon since October 9.
They asked what undertakings
the department required in rela-
tion to the destruction of burr
so that they could take the
matter up with the purchaser,
and _if he was unable to give
such* undertakings they could
cancel the contract.
The Minister replied that he
“would suggest that you confer
with the purchaser with a view to
arriving at an arrangement
whereby the burr on this holding
can reasonably be kept under
control, and advise me of the
result [when] the matter will
have my immediate attention.”
The judge remarked that the
Land Commissioner did not
suggest that the burr was not
kept under, reasonable control;
and that the Minister in his
previous notations had been con-
cerned not with control, but with
elimination.
On March 6, the Minister, in
conference with White and the
vendor’s solicitor, said that he
was not concerned who cleared
the burr; that his report
indicated that it would cost £2
7s. per acre and that the total
area affected was 200 acres. The
judge interpolates that the total
area of the Dutton property was
660,000 acres. And he meditates
that “where the Minister
obtained his information does
not appear.” No report, except
those quoted above, had been
made on burr-infestation since
1931 when the Land Commis-
sioner reported that the property
was clean of burr.
Foley told the vendor’s
solicitor that the outgoing
tenants had not kept the property
reasonably clear of burr. White
then said that seed-pods of burr
were at that time advanced and
spraying might not kill them.
The Minister then said that he
“did not expect the impossible”
and if reports indicated that the
burr was too advanced he did
not want money wasted on it.
Eventually he said that he was
prepared to agree to the transfer,
if £3OO was spent on horrrione-
spraying in the next 12 months.
On March 19, he noted his
approval of the transfer 22 weeks
after the application was
received, or about 20 weeks after
what would have been the
normal limit for approval.
Mr. Justice Townley wrote:
The undisputed evidence was that
the expense of running the property
was approximately £3OO a week. Thus
the delay involved the vendor in the
expenditure of £6OOO of which Mr.
White got the benefit and the vendor
no benefit.
This apart from income and
interest the vendor might have
received on the purchase-money
of £79,500.
Next, White came in with an
application f<sr exemption from
maintenance of the fence round
the netted portion of the
property as prescribed by the
department’s conditions of lease.
Labor-maintenance difficulties,
sheep losses so ruinous that
sheep-raising would be out of
the question in future, calves
killed by dingoes, were all cited
as justification.
All this so that White, who
was a cattleman, could confine
himself to cattle.
No delay this time. Foley
granted the exemptions without
any departmental investigation
or consultation whatever. And
within a few months the depart-
ment informed the Minister that
White had sold both cattle and
sheep and that the property was
now unstocked.
The Minister noted:
I have been informed that White
has purchased big supplies'of material
for fencing and repairs and also 20
bulls [high-class at big prices], but just
what his actual intentions are I do not
know.
White died in December, 1951.
In September, 1952, the Land
Commissioner reported the
property singularly free from
burr and made no reference to
burr in the unnetted area. When
the Minister agreed to the trans-
fer of the property to a
purchaser in 1954 no mention of
burr or inquiry about infesta-
tion was made by the Minister.
The Minister when questioned
about his sudden interest in burr
on Dutton River said that it
had been induced when the late
Mr. E. J. Riordan told him that
Dutton River was going into
liquidation and “asked him to
have a look at the condition of
the improvements and the state
of the pastures, particularly as
regards burr.” He added:
Well, I investigated the matter.
First of all I mentioned it in Cabinet
—what Mr. Riordan had informed
me —and Cabinet was of opinion I
should take drastic action against
any company that is selling-out and
leaving their land and their improve-
ments in a run-down condition. As a
consequence 1 took action, first of all,
to inquire into the condition of the
improvements, I think it was, and the
report of the Land Commissioner was
to the effect that the improvements
were in no worse condition than
others I then investigated the
question of burr.
The drastic action that he did
take (the judge found) was to
“instruct that any future
correspondence in connection
with the leasehold be referred to
him.”
Nobody in tlje Land Board
had ever heard of the supposed
Cabinet instruction about
“drastic action.” And the royal
commissioner, certainly seemed
to find it very singular that, hav-
ing received a specific Cabinet
instruction as to what should be
done about properties which
were run-down and then offered
for sale, he was interested only
when White was a buyer and
not later when the property had
definitely been stripped of stock
and the leasehold-conditions not
carried out by White. Then, all
the action this provoked was that
“he announces that he hears that
White has purchased twenty
bulls (high class at big prices)
and big supplies of material for
fencing, though what, his inten-
tions are I do not know.” The
Minister did not state specifically
that the bulls and supplies were
intended for Dutton River, but
the commissioner remarks that
“the fencing- and building-
material does not seem to have
been used,” and that if bulls were
intended for the station they
“must have been intended to lead
celibate lives or mate with scrub-
bers, the only stock remaining
there according to later reports.”
+ +
For having taken an agree-
ment from White to spend £3OO
on removing the supposed
extensive burr on Dutton River
(and shown no subsequent
interest as to whether the under-
taking was carried out) the
Minister—without inquiry or
investigation now exempted
him from the lease-conditions
relating to maintenance of the
netted area of the property and
the running of sheep on it.
And when it was known that
the property had had the stock
removed from it he made no
inquiry as to when it would be
restocked. When the executors
of White sold it unstocked and
run-down, and with conditions
not carried out in general, the
Minister had no curiosity about
the matter; he apparently for-
got the Cabinet’s instructions
for “drastic action” about which
(Continued on page 27)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
BIHECTORS:
iiLLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
bTKUAN .ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Brunches in all States Agencies in all Country Ceutres
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
jVo Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BAItRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
1 V,crr»iQ
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful b.
all who have tried it. „„,„ TTDP
Write today for FREE LITERATLR
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Highlight of next Saturday’s
Sydney racing will be the run-
ning of the £l5OO Warwick
Stakes (seven furlongs) at War-
wick Farm. Acceptances were
not available at time of writing,
but entrants included New
Zealand champion Syntax, the
brilliant Dominion sprinter El
Khobar, and such other New
Zealanders as Somerset Fair,
Gentle Lu and Santiago 11, as
well as Knave, Gay Lover, Even-
ing Peal, Starover, Gay Vista,
Prince Delville and Caranna.
The Warwick Stakes is run at
weight-for-age, with allowances,
apd Syntax is selected to win
from El Khobar and Somerset
Fair.
The second most important
event on the Warwick Farm pro-
gramme will be the £1250 Spring
Cup (11 furlongs), with a £lOO
trophy. This race has attracted
the best middle - distance
gallopers, including (at time of
writing) Electro, Evening Peal,
Magic Carpet 11, Advocate,
Kalimah and Regal Forest. Out-
sider B e a u p a narrowly
defeated Skyloch and Grand
Charles in the Cup last year, then
went on to win the Metropolitan
with 7.11. At Randwick he
defeated subsequent Melbourne
Cup winner Toparoa and
Electro. Apart from last season,
however, the event has seldom
been a guide to the more
important Randwick contest.
Round I of Sydney’s spring
season saw punters on the wrong
leg, with one winning favorite in
the seven events at Warwick
Farm. Costly losses to takers of
the odds were Gay Sierra, Top
Ruler, Sthrover and Cloudsman.
Gay Sierra was regarded as a
near-certainty for the Hobart-
ville Stakes, despite having been
defeated at two outings follow-
ing a spell. The colt had had
a hard run when defeated by
Evening Peal at Canterbury, and
in the Hobartville he showed no
dash, finishing in the ruck.
Gay Sierra still has ample
time before the A.J.C. Derby
to prove that his latest outing
was just one of those poor runs
a good horse occasionally hands'
out. The colt cost 4500gns. as
a yearling, highest price of the
New Zealand 1955 sales. He is
the first live foal of his dam,
Sierra, a mare by Balloch (imp.),
a sire of stayers, while his
granddam, Lady Ex, also was
got by a sire of stayers, Lord
Quex (imp.). Gay Sierra is a
son of Gabador (Fr.), who won
at 10 furlongs in France in his
only start in a race. Gabador is
the sire of El Khobar.
Three winners of the Hobart-
ville Stakes later won the A.J.C.
Derby, a modest record over a
spread of 30 years. Latest
winner, Commissionaire, who
landed the money last Saturday,
is set for the Randwick blue
riband, and will be a warm
favorite for the classic should he
win the Rosehill Guineas, his
next engagement. He’s bred to
stay the Derby course. Last
season he won the A.J.C. Kirk-
ham Stakes, and with latest
prizemoney, £1229, has proved a
good buy at the lOOOgns. he cost
at the Randwick sales. His sire,
Genetout (Fr.), was a good
sticker, and sire of, among
many other good winners,
Columnist, 1947 Caulfield Cup
winner. The colt’s dam,
Usherette, is a Marconigram
(imp.) mare, and Marconigram
has sired many good stayers.
It was three years to the day
when Commissionaire won the
Hobartville ; he was foaled on
August 18, 1953.
Gold Quality, a Metrop.
aspirant with Bst., won the War-
wick Farm August Handicap
furlongs) by a narrow
margin from Livorno, who
figured in the new role, for him,
of pacemaker —to the six-
furlongs turn. He then was
passed by Gold Quality, who
held him off in a close finish.
Still, Gold Quality’s win didn’t
bring him many friends for the
Metrop., because aged horses
have a poor record in that stay-
ing-race. Magic Carpet II ran
well enough to jot down for an
early return to the winning-list.
Leading Randwick trainer
T. J. Smith had mixed luck with
his various charges on Saturday.
He started the day well at War-
wick Farm when New Amber
and Arefhusa, both ridden by
G. Moore, won the first two
races. Adelina was a bit costly
in the Campbelltown Handicap,
in which she finished sixth, and
heavily-backed Penarth ran last
in the August Handicap. The
stable made Top Ruler favorite
for the final event, the Glenlee
Handicap, but that gelding came
too late on the scene, and
Culzean beat him narrowly.
At Eagle Farm on Saturday
Landy was sent to the post at
odds-on for the Q.T.C. Metro-
politan Handicap, but after
leading to the home-turn he was
beaten into third place. Landy
carried 8.7, which was too much
for the four-year-old, but it was
only lib. above his Metropolitan
weight, so he’d need to improve
sharply to be a Metrop. hope.
Cyklon King, a 50-to-l shot,
won the M.R.C. ? s J. J. Liston
Stakes at Flemington on Satur-
day, narrowly defeating the
favorite, Sir William. Supporters
hoped Sir William had made the
line first, but the judge, with-
out waiting for the photo-finish
print, hoisted Cyklon King’s
number. The printed result
showed the winner’s margin as
an inch or two, which was a bit
of fine cutting by the judge.
Centreway was a good third.
Rising Fast ran on well, and
could soon make the hoped-for
comeback.
Red Flag, a six-year-old Red
Fife (imp.) gelding, won the
V.R.C. First Trial Stakes in good
style at his first Melbourne start,
atoning for Sydney failures. He
could continue to pay his way.
Improving on prior displays,
three-year-old Sun Pilot, by
Channel Swell (ithp.)-Jean
Marie, won a midweek Canter-
bury Park Maiden with a strong
finishing run from the home-
turn. The colt gives promise of
winning in much better company
in the near future. His dam is
a half-sister to Drum Net, a
winner of Caulfield’s Futurity
Stakes, while others in the
pedigree include Ranier, the
colt’s granddam.
Delville Wood (imp.) is
leading Australian sire for the
fourth successive year; his pro-
geny won 58 races and £59,493 in
stakes in the past season. Mast-
head (imp.) is second on the list
(68 wins and £42,295), Star
Kingdom (imp.) third, « then
Helios (imp.) and Valognes
(imp.). Count Rendered (imp.)
heads the New Zealand list with
56 wins and £42,947 in stakes ;
Fair’s Fair (imp.) and Fox-
bridge (imp.) next in order.
“Symonym,” on the h.c. of
racing:
This is the doleful month when
Australian racing-clubs come up with
the result of their strenuous efforts
during the year to raise money by
holding race-meetings for the State-
Governments.
The A.J.C. reports a loss of £7OOO,
but the V.R.C., surprising all racing-
men, including its own committee,
has achieved a small surplus; and
a splendid, modem annual report,
with diagrams of where the money
went and magnificent photographs,
replaces the former archaic, unin-
formative sheet in brummy olde
English type which looked as if it
had come from an old apothecary’s
shop back o’ Bourke.
Each £ of receipts is made-up of
Bs. Bd. deductions from the tote-
pool (less expenses); 7s. from
members and admission-charges; 2s.
from catering, etc., and bond-interest;
Is. 6£d. from bookmakers; 9d. from
nominations and id. from broad-
casting-fees.
Expenditure is 7s. 7|d. to the
Victorian Government for tote-com-
mission, fractions, unclaimed
dividends, entertainments-tax, etc.; ss.
lid. to stakes; ss. ljd. to race-day
expenditure and track-improvements;
"I'm always glad when the Tests are over and our
employees resume normal Working-relationships .”
Is. 3-1 d. to salaries and general
expenses.
And the surplus is—a ha’penny! •*
Contrasting sharply with the
A.J.C.’s loss for the year
ended June 30 last, the S.T.C.
report for the same period
disclosed a profit of £11,176.
Rosehill and Canterbury Park
fixtures had increased attend-
ances at both Saturday and mid-
we e k fixtures ; 41 meetings.
An interesting item was the mid-
week tote-holding of £978,080 (14
days). Revenue (£691,220) was
£88,813 more than in 1954-55.
* ❖ *
Rough, bustling tactics were
the order of the night at Friday’s
Harold Park trot-fixture, and
three drivers paid the penalty—
one to stand down for two
months, two others for a month,
A suspension seems to be the
only thing to convince some
drivers that they’re not Ben
Hurs. On the brighter side, the
fast-class event again went to
Brilliant Moon —his third in a
row. Held back in fourth place
at a tiptoe by driver Blackwell,
he fairly swished to the front in
the last lap to win going away
from early leader Saloon Bar.
The little black has now qualified
for the £5OOO Spring Cup to be
run in October, and what he
could do from the front line in
that event is nobody’s business.
Victoria’s freak four-year-old
mare Argent, entered for the
Pyrmont Handicap won by
Brilliant Moon, didn’t make the
trip. Probably her trainer,
McKay, wanted to be sure she
was in top fettle before tackling
a Brilliant Moon in form. To
qualify for a run in the 2.14 front
Spring Cup, Argent has to win
two more races. Topline West-
ralian pacer Marine Dealer is in
the same boat. He had a hit-out
in a gymkhana-exhibition at the
weekend, leading all the way
to beat a good field with his ears
pricked. Runner-up to Brilliant
Moon on Friday, Saloon Bar (
needs one win to make the grade.
Fast-class events in the next few
weeks should be interesting, for
when top-class horses are trying
to qualify for a big run good
racing is ensured.
+ +
The V.F.L. line-up for the
finals is Melbourne, Colling-
wood, Geelong and Footscray,
with ’Wood getting the second
double-chance by a slim edge
in percentage on Geelong. The
last full round saw three of the
top four teams beaten, one,
Carlton, thus missing-out in the
play-off. Winning 8.14-6.9,
’Scray had two particular stars
—Whitten, impassable in defence
at centre-half-back, and Collins,
tricky and elusive at centre-half-
forward. The other two defeated
were Collingwood, downed in a
tough encounter by Melbourne
10.13- after ’Wood, booting
straight, had scored seven goals
from nine shots at threequarter-
time, and Geelong, weak for-
ward, stoushed by Essendon
14.13- St. Kilda won again,
beating Richmond in a fast
game 16.14-16.9; South ston-
kered North 13.9-7.13; Haw-
thorn shaded Fitzroy 10.17-9.16.
On Saturday the Cats and the
Bulldogs tear into one another,
loser outski.
Melbourne, heading the V.F.L.
table, met its first defeat after
13 wins straight. Similarly, in
the Adelaide league Port had its
first loss of the year after 13
successive wins at the hands
of middle-ranking South. Port
is still favprite for the premier-
ship.
C * *
In the final round of Sydney’s
Rugby Union, St. George
defeated East 9-5 in what was, in
the main, a battle between two
good sets of forwards. Aus-
tralian Test-captain Alan
Cameron dominated the lineouts
for St; George, but the East pack
cut even in the rest of the play.
(Next Saturday the two teams
meet again, in the first semi-
final.) Gordon was lucky to
beat University 14-12, Randwick
whitewashed North 36-0, East-
wood defeated Manly 11-6, and
Drummoyne and Parramatta
each had 14 points on the board
when the ref. gave the “Time,
gents!” blast on the whistle.
At Christchurch, N.Z. beat
South Africa in'the third Test
17-10; it now leads in the series
2-1, with one Test to go. At
half-time, after dominating the
game territorially, N.Z. led 11-0.
Soon after the interval the
Springboks got a spurt on, to
trail 11-10 most of the second
half; N.Z. adding two tries in the
last few minutes.
“Kanimbla”: Sydney Com-
bined High Schools’ Rugby
Union premiership was won by
a school which, though it bears
a name great in the history of
Sydney Rugby Union, has only
been added post-war to Sydney’s
five-year high-schools Manly
High. Manly defeated Parra-
matta High in the final.
* * *
After scraping into Sydney
Rugby League’s finals (it had to
play-off with Newton), West was
ignominiously bundled out again
by South Sydney 45-7 in the first
semi-final before 52,000. There
was some bellyaching from West
at having to play such a tough
game so soon after the play-off
four days earlier; but, on the
showing, South would have won
fairly handsomely whatever the
circumstances. At Newcastle,
the local side, with a try and
goal in the last minute, just got
up to beat the touring Maoris
19-15.
* * *
Les Wilson defeated Len Wood-
ward 4 and 2 in the final of the
Australian professional golf
championship at the St. Michael’s
course, Sydney. It was a closely
contested match, marked by
exceptionally low scoring and
consistently brilliant putting. To
reach the final the two young
players (Wilson, 22 ; Woodward,
24) eliminated Norman von
Nida, Kel Nagle and Eric
Cremin. Both are Sydney pros.,
unattached to any club, and
neither had reached a final
before.
The 1956 Australian amateur
golf championship went to
Harry Berwick, beating Victorian
Bill Edgar at the last hole —the
second time Edgar had been
runner-up to Berwick for the
title.
* * *
“Veryl”; Mrs. Dorothy Tyler
has been selected to represent
Britain in the 1956 Olympic
Games in the broad-jump; she
was at the 1936 Games in Berlin
in the British team. Probably
won’t be too many others with
the same span of participation.
Merv. Wood, if selected to repre-
sent Australia in the double-
sculls, would be another.
“Sam”: Australia has a
possible Olympic high-jump
champion in'l6-year-old Janice
Cooper, of Gosford High
School. Competing in the
school’s annual sports-meeting
she equalled the women’s
Olympic high-jump record
(sft. 3in.). Her jump beat the
school record by 6in. Janice has
a very good chance of represent-
ing Australia at the Games in
November.
*, * *
“Point”: It isn’t often you
find a Chief Justice has been a
successful first-class cricketer.
That's the distinction of M. D.
Lyon, C.J. of the Seychelles
Islands, who made many
hundreds for Somerset about
three decades ago, including one
against a touring Australian
team. Another Lyon, B. H., no
relation but an amateur, too,
blossomed around the same time
as a hard-hitting batsman for
Gloucestershire.
* * *
Victorian professional cyclist
Eddie Smith won the 1956
“Mercury” six-day tour of Tas-
mania, in 38hrs. 45min. 34sec.
aggregate time. Smith had
finished second in the 1954 and
1955 tours. Second this year
was Westralian Jim Oliver, 15sec.
behind Smith —time he’d lost by
a puncture early in the first stage.
Mockridge, suffering a series of
mishaps, finished well back, but
won the King of the Mountains
section. .


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
*
.
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD NOEL WILKINSON for-
merly of 26 King Street West Tamworth.
—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS . ESTHER
WILKINSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3836 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
tp defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by 22nd October 1966 .and obtafh
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. EVERINGHAM. SOLO-
MONS & CO., Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERNEST CLAUDE SAMS formerly of
Tamworth.—TAKE NOTICE that
AUDREY JOAN SAMS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4240 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by 22nd October
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. EVERING-
HAM, SOLOMONS & CO., Solicitors, Fitz-
roy Street, Tamworth. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire*.... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
he had been so sedulous when
White’s interests'were involved.
Nelia Ponds
There was another case, how-
ever, which seems even’ more
picturesque than the Dutton
River case.
Some time before November
23, 1953, Mr. Gerald Stapleton
Douglas entered into a contract
to sell Nelia Ponds station to
the Lancevale Pastoral Company
for £105,600, a deposit of £5600
being taken on the execution of
the agreement of sale, the
balance being payable on
delivery—apparently to be on
January 4, 1954.
Six weeks before this date Mr.
and Mrs. Douglas visited Foley,
the Minister, who called in the
chairman of the Land Board.
Mr. Creighton was told —-
“presumably by the Minister” —
that Mrs. Douglas for some
sentimental reason was unwilling
that the sale, for which agree-
ment had been signed and
deposit taken, should be pro-
ceeded with.
As Mr. Foley put it in his
evidence: “Here was a little
woman in grave distress. She
had worried her husband to the
extent that he was prepared to
do anything to assist her, even
to the extent of breaking a con-
tract.” And so, it seems, was the
soft - hearted Minister. Mr.
Creighton could give no advice.
Mr. Foley told his suppliants
that he knew a solicitor, a Mr.
O’Mara, who might help, and
he himself made an appointment
for Mr. O’Mara to come and see
Douglas in the Ministerial
room.
Mr. O’Mara advised that the
contract was binding and could
not be evaded, and Mr.
Creighton was again asked if
there was any way in. which
the contract could be held up.
He replied that the property was
an ordinary pastoral lease and
the parties eligible to transfer it.
But the Minister was not going
to let the prompting of his
kindly heart be overridden in
that way.
True, there were two parties
to the contract, but his sym-
pathies were with the Douglases
—hang the buyer! He had an
inspiration :
Noogoora-burr!
He asked about it. Mr.
Creighton said that, from his
recollection, the Flinders River
frontages were heavily infested,
and unlikely to be improved in
the meantime all Flinders
River frontages, as a matter of
fact, were at that time, and
probably still are, in the same
condition. It is an insoluble
problem, since floods keep on
bringing the seeds down.
Mr. Foley, on his own
evidence, asked Mr. Douglas
whether his place was free from
burr. Mr. Douglas replied:
“We have been spending money
yearly trying to keep it down.”
Then, said MrrFoley, “I gave
the matter some thought later
on, and to try and .be consistent
with my previous action in
regard to Dutton River I felt
that here Was an opportunity
at least to find out, first, just
what was the condition of the
lease as far as burr was con-
cerned, and see whether we
could do anything for the Crown
.... I received a report.... that
the place was pretty badly
infested.... I gave instructions
no transfer should be made until
such time as burr, particularly
on Spellicey Creek and its tribu-
taries, was at least treated to
the satisfaction of the depart-
ment.” He “understood that
the lessees put somebody on to
clear the burr and he under-
stood the sale lapsed. He never
heard any more of it.”
What had happened was that
O’Mara and Robinson—the
solicitors whom the Minister
himself had recommended to the
vendors —wrote to the Minister
on the day of the second interr
view in the Ministerial office,
asking for consent of the depart-
ment to thd transfer, and the
Minister minuted the letter:
“Obtain report from L/Com-
missioner as to burr-infestation.”
The Land Commissioner re-
ported :
Approximately half the area of the
holding... .comprises channel-country
which is subject to periodical
inundation by flooding. On this area
the burr-infestation at the present time
is chiefly confined to the main channel
of the Flinders River, with isolated
patches in flood-channels. No doubt
a heavier infestation will occur' after
the wet season.
On the other half of the
holding, he said, “the only infes-
tation occurs along the water-
course of Spellicey Creek....
which will require attention
after the wet season, and can
be eradicated.”
He added:
However, the burr-infestation is
common to the Flinders River and
its tributaries, and it would be
impracticable to clear this portion of
the river unless the burr is eradicated
along the whole course, as seed would
be deposited after every flood.
The assistant lands-ranger
reported:
It is pointed out that the burr-
infestation occurs throughout the
entire length of the Flinders River in
the Hughenden district, and it would
be impossible to eradicate the pest
along the 16-mile frontage of the
above holding whilst plants continue
to seed higher up the river. *
Nevertheless, the upright
Minister sternly minuted these
reports:
Arrange for Land Commissioner to
advise lessee that the infestation of
burr along Spellicey Creek and
tributaries must be eradicated or
reasonably cleared before approval
for transfer can be allowed.
The Land Commissioner was
advised accordingly. The sale
fell through—the purchasers
could do nothing in the face of
the Minister’s decision.
But this was only the begin-
ning.
Another Deal
On May 9 Douglas wrote to
the Minister advising that the
burr on Spellicey Creek had
been reasonably cleared. On
June 8 the assistant lands-
ranger reported: “The burr-
infestation along Spellicey Creek
has now been reasonably eradi-
cated.”
Then, on July 13, 1954 (a year
later), a firm of solicitors —not
Mr. O’Mara —wrote to the
Minister applying for consent
to transfer Nelia Ponds to the
Western Queensland Pastoral
Company—this time for a price
of £147,000, which was £40,000
more than the price in the
previous contract.
Two questions were submitted
to the Minister: (1) Develop-
ment-conditions having been
complied with, might a transfer
be in order and lodged
promptly? (2) Was an intima-
tion to be required from the
transferee company that the
burr-infestation along Spellicey
Creek and its tributaries must
be maintained reasonably free?
The Minister minuted the
document: “Approved.”
The department advised Mr.
Douglas’s solicitors that
approval for the transfer would
be given when an intimation as
set out above had been received
regarding the maintenance of
freedom from burr.
Mr. Douglas replied that the
department had no doubt been
advised by the Hughenden Lands
“T' think I was agin automation!”
Office that “we have cleaned the
noogoora-burr off the creek
known as Spellicey Creek, as
inspected by one of their officers
of that department.” He asked
permission to re-offer Nelia
Ponds for sale to the Western
Queensland Pastoral Company.
Nothing appeared on the
Ministerial file after that till .the
following November. Between
July and October Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas apparently became
again unwilling to carry through
the sale. On October 6 the
Western Queensland Pastoral
Company issued a writ against
them claiming specific perform-
ance of an agreement to sell the
station and damages, or,
alternatively, damages.
The statement of claim was
delivered on November 17. Some
time in November, probably
before November 26, the
Douglases called on the
Minister with a request similar
to that which they had made in
respect of the agreement to sell
to the Lancevale Company. No
record of this visit —or any of
their visits connected with the
matter appeared on the
Minister’s file.
Then vide Foley’s own
sworn version:
Having in my mind my previous
action and previous report seeing
that this sale was for a larger sum
of money, and a greater amount of
goodwill—no stock, I understand,
included in it —I decided to take
action again, and instructed that
further burr-clearing operations be
carried out on Alick Creek and the
channels along the Flinders, which
were very badly infested.
On November 26 he issued an
instruction for the lessee to take
effective action to reduce the
burr-infestation in the area
which he mentioned:
Intimate that letter of July 23, 1954,
is withdrawn and that transfer of
holding cannot now be approved. Say
that future application, in order to
receive consideration, must contain
the assurance that the infestation of
the portion of the holding mentioned
above has been satisfactorily
reduced.
It was only on December 17,
three weeks after this, that the
Douglases entered' a defence in
their action with the Western
Queensland Graziers.
All the burr which the
assistant lands - ranger had
reported the previous December,
in the report on which the
Minister acted, was contained
in isolated patches in the flood-
country between the Flinders
and Alick Creek and along the
main channel of the Flinders. No
direction had been given by the
Minister at the time to deal with
this burr.
The commissioner was satis-
fied that it was the Minister who
on the first occasion “inquired
about burr-infestation.” He was
satisfied that it was “a matter
which came to his mind, after it
was ascertained that there was no
legal flaw in the contract, as a
possible means of assisting them
[the Douglases] in attaining
their object, and that it was with
that end in view that he with-
held approval. The action
which he took was not moti-
vated by an intention to imple-
ment any general instruction he
had issued or to benefit the
Crown.”
On the second occasion he
“withdrew an approval already
given,” and his Honor was
“satisfied that the withdrawal
was actuated by sympathy and
a desire to- assist the lessees to
retain their home for senti-,
mental reasons, and again
burr-infestation was used as a
pretext.” No evidence was pro-
duced that the Minister benefited
or hoped to benefit. And he
had, under the Lands Act, “an
absolute discretion to grant or
refuse permission to transfer
leases and occupation licences.”
The judge thought that he
had been guilty of “misuse of
discretion,” but he was not pre-
pared to find, and did not find,
that there was any corruption or
corrupt conduct on the part of
anybody in the affair.
Still, it throws a bright 'light
on methods of administration
of the Queensland Lands
Department by at least one
Labor Minister.
And caucus might have been
expected to feel uneasy about
it when viewed in conjunction
with some of the same Minister’s
other actions and with the
manner in which the permanent
policy of the department had
been flouted.
A Parliament which valued
the reputation of its Govern-
ment would hasten to put it
beyond the power of Ministers
to misuse their discretion in the
way in which it was misused to
help v a pleading woman to
break two contracts firmly and
legally made.
Whatever else the Minister’s
action may have been it cer-
tainly gave no support to the
principle of sanctity of contract
on which the legal foundation of
commercial dealings stands and
which all Governments normally
profess to uphold.


Commonwealth of Australia >yjsESL~ Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 1951-1953
BRITISH SUBJECTS and NEW AUSTRALIANS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
23rd AUGUST and 6th SEPTEMBER, 1956
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between Ist July, 1956, and 31st December, 1956,
inclusive.
HEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Persons who are not British Subjects, and Naturalized
British Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
of 18 years between Ist July, 1955, and 31st December, 1955
(inclusive), and were in Australia on 23rd August, 1955.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
ANY PERSON WHO IS REQUIRED TO REGISTER AND WHO FAILS TO
DO SO 1$ LIABLE TO THE PENALTIES PRESCRIBED UNDER THE ACT
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at District Employment
Offices and Money Order Post Offices. Addresses of the former offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
N5R6.93.86
CUARD
CIS
PROTECTA
ft6g<
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built*
pleasing in appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Pentold l> Co. PtJ. l*C
Norman Bros. Ply. LW.
. Vardon Price Ud,
. Docket Book Cm l*nU
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ-TWO VIEWS
npHE large bulk of British press-
-*• comment on Suez resolves
itself broadly into two schools
of thought, the first favoring
reoccupation of the Canal Zone,
even at the risk of war; the
second inclining to negotiation
and a search for an alternative
to the canal, particularly as the
ownership passes to Egypt any-
way in 1968.
The first view is concisely
expressed by London “Time and
Tide,” which quotes a letter
from Marshal of the Royal Air
Force Sir John Slessor to
London “Times” :
“We are faced today with a
challenge in the Middle East
potentially no less mortal than
that in the Europe of 1938 —
though far more easily countered
if we have the courage. We
shall never have another last
chance as we did in 1939-40.
Unless we and our American
allies now act together in
defence of interests which in
the long run are vital to us both,
and not only retain military
strength but use it if necessary,
then indeed for us both the bell
will toll.”
To that comment “Time and
Tide” adds that “whatever the
other great Powers may do, we
[Britain] must be prepared to
act alone”:
“If Colonel Nasser-is allowed
to get away with his coup, not
only—as ‘The Times’ with wel-
come lack of equivocation
remarked —will ‘all the British
and otHer interests in the
Middle East crumble,’ but the
security, prosperity and very
existence of the whole British
Commonwealth will be gravely
and permanently jeopardised.
“Now is the time, therefore,
for strength and resolution. The
neurosis from which a few men
at the summit of political power
and authority in Britain have
lately suffered has been, in
respect of the Middle East, the
neurosis of 1938. In a different
mood the people of this country,
as 1940 proved, can be
courageous, ingenious, steadfast
and much-enduring. In the
Revival of that mood and the
sweeping-away of the neurosis
lies our one sure hope.
“Dreary, complicated little
arrangements for a conference
will not stop Colonel Nasser
but goad him into fresh excesses.
Strength, demonstrated rapidly
and with determination, could
bring him and his whole paste-
board regime toppling down.
This would mean the reoccupa-
tion of the Suez Canal Zone
and, in all probability, of the
whole of the metropolitan Egypt
by Britain, as guardian for the
rest of the free world ; and the
sooner that sole responsibility is
transformed into a joint Nato
responsibility the better.
“It would mean the imposi-
tion of terms of settlement of
the Arab-Israel dispute and the
ending of an arms-race as
destructive as it is furtive. It
would mean the negotiation of
some form of agreement with
Israel. It would mean the estab-
lishment of a permanent system
of security to protect one of the
great highways of the world,
vital to the existence of every
commercial and maritime nation.
It would also mean that Britain
made it clear that she was not
to be edged, jostled or howled
out of her rights and responsi-
bilities.
“There are risks in such a
course of action —quite consider-
able risks which it would be
foolish to underestimate. But
the risks in doing nothing, in
giving way to Colonel Nasser’s
menaces, are infinitely graver.
The choice has to be made and
made rapidly and boldly. Britain
must take the lead and shoulder
the main responsibility. It is a
hard task ; in its fulfilment there
is the chance to recapture great-
ness. If we evade it we shall
incur shame, dishonor and
disaster.”
The other view is well repre-
sented by London “Economist,”
which, after noting that “Egypt
has behaved culpably indeed”
in expropriating the canal, goes
on to comment that “it remains
true that the ownership of the
Suez Canal was, under the terms
of the concession, to pass to the
Egyptian Government in 1968”:
“Britain withdrew its forces
from Egypt in the full knowledge
that that was so, and no reason
existed for supposing that any
Egyptian Government would
agree to extend the concession.
By that time European depend-
ence on the canal would almost
certainly have been much greater
than it is now. This makes the
more puzzling Sir Anthony
Eden’s apparent enunciation of
a doctrine in the Commons:
“ ‘No arrangements for the
future of this great international
waterway would be acceptable to
her Majesty’s Government which
would leave it in the unfettered
control of a single Power, which
INFLATION —LONDON “TIME AND TIDE " VIEW
could, as recent events have
shown, exploit it purely for
purposes of national policy.’
“This is new, and the Prime
Minister [later] made clear that
he regards it not merely as an
obiter dictum but as a doctrine,
applicable, presumably, after as
well as before 1968: ‘lt is upon
this that we insist... .nothing
less than this can be acceptable
to us.’
“It takes the Suez Canal dispute
far beyond any question of
ownership, nationalisation, or
compensation, by a chain of
reasoning which amounts to
this: (1) ‘Free navigation’ as
guaranteed by the Convention of
1888 extends to efficient and
economical operation of the
canal. (2) Colonel Nasser’s other
commitments will prevent him
from using the canal dues to
enable it to do its job efficiently
and economically. (3) His con-
duct shows him and his regime
to be unreliable. (4) Therefore
the canal must be placed fin an
unspecified way) under inter-
national control.
“Arguments of international
law, day-to-day politics and
economic convenience could
hardly be more entangled. Can
the Prime Minister expect the
Powers, on the basis of a chain
of reasoning arguable at so many
points, to act in concert to im-
pose the new doctrine on Egypt
by force? This would be a very
different matter from taking the
necessary counter-measures if
Colonel Nasser were to close
the canal. What the Prime
Minister might more logically
and coherently have said would
have been, first, that renewed
guarantees might be fairly asked
for now, after what has hap-
pened, of the' international
freedom of the waterway and
its proper working and develop-
ment ; and, secondly, something
more on these lines:
“ ‘lt is too risky to depend
for the trade between Europe
and Asia on one route in one
pair of hands.’
“Instead of crying for what
has been given up long ago,”
the “Economist” continues, “the
countries of the Atlantic and
Indian Oceans —for the latter,
too, need their trade-route from
Europe —should be looking for
a way of bringing their depen-
dence on the canal within the
limits of what is tolerable.
“It has to be borne in mind
that well before 1968 (if the date
retains any relevance) the Suez
Canal will have become inade-
quate for the volume of traffic,
even assuming that the existing
improvement-plans go through.
“A second canal, if it could
be safeguarded, would not be
absurd To draw off some of the
oil-traffic, more pipelines are not
merely not absurd, they are un-
avoidable, although pipelines,
like canals, offer temptation to
the nationalists. (Oilfields, too,
offer such temptation. The
political troubles of oil-supply
from the Middle East are only
beginning ; this is not to say that
they will prove insuperable, but
that the world must be prepared
for them when they come.)
“A second canal at Aqaba
may not, indeed, be the answer;
but ideas of this kind have to
be considered, not merely dis-
missed as visionary. The Suez
Canal was visionary once, and
London wanted no share in
building it. Another related
scheme might be explored, at
least. The strip of desert-land
from Aqaba to Gaza offers other
possibilities, short of a canal
itself, along the de facto frontier
between Israel and Egypt
“What inducement might per-
suade the Egyptians to agree to
a United Nations authority
taking over and administering a
strip of land there? Such a strip
could carry pipelines and other
land-traffic. In an extremity, or
in the distant future, it might
carry a canal, too. In the mean-
time it would relieve the intoler-
able dependence of which the
Prime Minister reasonably com-
plains.
“Only some such scheme,
seeking to use the absence of a
territorial settlement on the
borders of Palestine as an asset
for once, could fulfil the most
desirable and at the moment
most remote of all conditions,
that a route which the world’s
traffic needs should pass through
international territory. And the
material interest at stake is big
beyond computation.
“The immediate Western
interest is not to teach Colonel


You’re sure of extra toughness with
'me
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS
*
Now even better: made with miracle “COLD RUBBER”
I*
s m
*
mzm
?? COLD RUBBER with a mole-
cular structure twice as
compact and far tougher
than other types of rubber,
resists road abrasion, in-
■ creases mileages more than
Constant running for a year or more over some of the toughest
roads in Australia has helped Goodyear Tubeless build a terrific
reputation for toughness. There was nothing unexpected about that.
From the first of a long series of the toughest tests tyres had ever
faced, Goodyear experts knew they'd built tougher tyres. They
knew they'd created tyres more than a match for the toughest of
driving conditions. Today Goodyear Tubeless in every state in
Australia have definitely been Time-Proven for extra toughness.-
Sudden blowouts are dangerous protect with GOODYEAR Tubeless
When a tube-type tyre
is bruised, the tube
may be chafed or
pinched until it bursts
... the tyre goes fiat
at once and the car
may lurch or skid out
of control off the road
or into oncoming
traffic.
TUBE
I TUBEIESS f
With Goodyear Tube-
less, damage which
might cause a tube-
type tyre to blow out
becomes a harmless
slow leak. Warned
early by slow loss of
air, you can make a
safe, controlled,
straightline stop.
Punctures may damage tube-type tyres beyond repair— GOODYEAR Tubeless
Whan a tube-type tyre
is punctured by a nail,
air escapes through
nail hole and between
tyre and tube, then on
through raive hole.
Tyre can be irrepar-
ably damaged before
halt b made.
TUBE
I.
f ssriaanil
Exclusive Grip - Seal
construction of Good-
year Tubeless means
tyre clings tightly
around nail, prevents
air-loss, permits com-
pletion of journey.
Puncture may be re-
paired at convenient
time.
good/Vear
TUBELESS AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES
Cl 54A
Nasser a lesson (he must learn
his own lessons) but to keep the
ships passing through the
canal. That must be the objec-
tive now of the concerted policies
of all the Western Powers—
including the United States. But,
in the longer view, to think of
alternatives on ambitious lines
is better than beating the breast
or the drum.”
Overseas Bases
Events in Ceylon, Cyprus and
Iceland have demonstrated
clearly the complications
inherent in British and U.S.
reliance on overseas bases. Nor,
it would seem, is there much
promise that these difficulties
will grow less, particularly while
the Soviet’s peace-offensive
maintains its momentum.
Surveying some of the
problems, W. F. Gutteridge, of
the Royal Military Academy,
Sandhurst, writes in London
“Contemporary Review” that
“the unfortunate truth from
Britain’s point of view is that
only a strong external threat to
the peace of a region as a whole
is likely to make the retention
of bases by an outside Power
secure”:
“Very few Middle Eastern or
South Asian countries fear any
enemies more than their
immediate neighbors. The visit
of the Russian leaders to India
and Burma has lulled the worst
suspicions and stimulated the
tendency to neutralism. Jordan’s
refusal to join the Baghdad Pact
may be seen partly as an unwill-
ingness to be any longer
impressed with the Communist
‘bogy.’ Right or wrong, realistic
or naive, this is an attitude which
is likely to spread.
“The suggestion has frequently
been made, without perhaps due
regard for the future safety of
the Turkish minority, that the
colonial problem of Cyprus
could be solved rby conceding
union with Greece so long as
bases were leased to British or
Nato forces. Recently even
British-owned enclaves have
been proposed, but it is not
difficult to imagine the problems
which could arise in connection
with water-supplies, communica-
tions, the administration of
justice and the employment of
local labor.
“By way of justification of the
leased base the American experi-
ence has been cited. The truth
of the counter-argument —that
the Americans had so far been
fortunate in their choice of sites,
and that the future of their bases
might well prove equally pre-
carious—is just beginning to be
seen. A general election in Ice-
land has put into power an anti-
American Progressive party with
Communist allies, and self-
government for Morocco means
renegotiation for bases there,
originally granted by France.
“A movement for self-
determination, that is, for return
to Japan, by the inhabitants of
Okinawa, would be resisted more
strongly by the United States
than that by the Greek Cypriots
has been by Britain, and is, in
fact, already an embarrassment
in her relations with Japan.
“No one doubts the difficulty
in using bases surrounded
by an inconveniently hostile
population. Britain’s evacuation
of the Canal Zone was the direct
result of a situation of this sort.
In Cyprus as many troops are
employed on internal-security
duties as it was originally
intended to base there for pos-
sible police-action in the whole
Middle East. The basic question
is how to convince the popula-
tion in these bases, from Gib-
raltar to Hong Kong, that
Britain’s interests and their
interests coincide. In Bermuda,
Gibraltar' and Malta there is
fortunately little sign of disaffec-
tion and the same might be said
of Hong Kong, but of the
remainder of the chain even
Aden, as a result of Saudi-
Axabian and Yemeni activities,
now seems precarious.
“Fortunately in some terri-
tories there is another side to
the picture. British forces have
a reputation for providing an
excellent source of income for
local traders, and this fact works
in favor of their presence remain-
ing acceptable. More important
still, major naval installations,
such as at Malta and Singapore,
provide much necessary employ-
ment for the local population.
“Some time ago a declared
Admiralty intention of reducing
the scale of dockyard provision
at Valetta caused dismay among
the Maltese. British military
and naval needs require the
employment of one-sixth of the
local labor-force in the Colony
of Singapore, and it is doubtful
whether any Government there
could calmly contemplate the
complete closure of the relevant
installations and the possible
evacuation of British capital
which might be associated
with it.”
U.S. Steel Strike
The 1952 U.S. steel strike-
in which President Truman’s
taking-over of the industry was
ruled unconstitutional by the
U.S. Supreme Court—lasted for
54 days and cost all concerned a
total of $4OOO million.
By comparison, this year’s
strike lasted for about a month
and was settled without Govern-
ment intervention. The ending
of it, however, was still “a major
economic event,” as London
“Financial Times” puts it, the
same paper adding that “there
do not seem to be any final
estimates of the amount of steel
lost, but the figures given suggest
that it may have been equal to
perhaps a third of the annual
output of the British steel-
industry. The ability of the
United States to absorb such a
strike without serious derange-
ment of industry is an example
of the resilience of the
American economy.”
Summing-up the final settle-
ment, “New York Times” com-
ments that it “shows a retreat by
each side from its original posi-
tion, both as to length of con-
tract and economic terms, but no
full surrender by either one. The
time-worn pattern of a guaran-
teed annual hassle over wages
and working conditions has been
broken, not for five years as the
companies wanted, but for three.
The ‘package’ of benefits the
workers will get comes to about
20 cents an hour for the first
year, compared with the 14 to 15
cents which the companies
offered originally and the 60
cents which they said the union
had demanded.
“But the losses, too, must be
reckoned with. Wages of the
v strikers for the days they didn’t
work come to about $2OO million
—more than $2l a day on the
average for each one.
“By far the most serious con-
sequences of the strike settle-
ment, of course, are the long-run
inflationary forces it will
activate. The steel-settlement
will tend to raise the sights of
unions whose negotiations are
still to come. In so far as the
costs of the resulting agreements
are not avoided by increased pro-
ductivity, but passed on to the
cohsumer, they will stimulate
inflation.”
In another view (London
“Economist”), “the industry has
won a guarantee of three years
—it wanted five —without a stop-
page and can plan for expan-
sion on a basis of uninterrupted
work and stable labor-costs, with
rises linked directly to increases
in productivity. The union has
also won on matters of principle:
for the first time in this industry
extra pay is to be given for
Sunday work, and the companies
have recognised their obligation
to supplement State unemploy-
ment-allowances when men are
laid-off.”
Alio optimistic, Roscoe
Drummond, in New York
“Herald Tribune,” sees the settle-
ment as “the first complete steel-
contract in years which has been
achieved without intervention by
the Federal Government”:
“It is a victory for responsible
management and for responsible
labor. It is a tribute to the steady
hand of Secretary of Labor
James P. Mitchell, who success-
fully resisted both the tempta-
tion and the pressure to inject
the Government —as has so often
happened since the early 1940’s
—into the substance of the
negotiations.
“It is, above all, a victory for
free, uncoerced collective
bargaining. It marks one of the
biggest steps to return labor
disputes to the conference-table
without the Government trying
to dictate the terms.”
Italy's Challenge
Bradford “Wool Record” on
a new contender for the title
of the world’s largest cloth-
exporter :
“It came as a nasty shock to
see a report that in 1955 Italy
overhauled the U.K. in exports
of .woven wool-tissues. The
results of the annual question-
naire circulated by the Com-
monwealth Economic Commit-
tee and the International Wool
Textile Organisation showed
that Italian shipments shot up
last year to 61 million lb. —an
increase of nearly 50 per cent,
on the previous year’s figure.
“The British total was 58.5
million lb., or nearly 14 per cent,
more than the 1954 volume.
Based on these figures, Italy
would become the leading
exporter, with Britain in second
place. But if account is taken
of exports of hair-cloths,
tapestries, pile - fabrics and
linings, the British industry
actually retains its premier
place, with total exports last
year amounting to 62.2 million
lb.
“However, the point in quot-
ing these statistics is not to
re-establish British export
supremacy but to draw attention
to the astonishing expansion in
Italy’s overseas sales of wool-
cloth. Since 1952 they have
more than trebled in size ; the
only other country to show a
comparable increase is Japan,
whose exports, even so, were
less than nine million lb. .last
year.
“Of course, it is true that on
a value basis Italy’s trade bears
poor comparison with that of
Britain—probably it is worth
less than half the foreign earn-
ings of British woollens and
worsteds. Whereas most of
Italy’s overseas trade is in cheap
fabrics sold principally to
Britain and Continental
countries, the exports of the
U.K. industry are predominantly
of better-class, all-wool cloth, a
large proportion of which goes
into the dollar-markets of North
America. The average value of
British cloth exported in the first
of this year, according
to the Board of Trade returns,
was about 14s. a yard. The
average value of Italian cloth
brought into this country was
just half that figure.
“This growing competition
from Italy is felt much more
in the home-markets of Euro-
pean countries like Britain, Wes-
tern Germany and Switzerland
than it is in world markets,
where demand is more on quality
goods. Italian activity has
increased in North America,
where she is offering worsteds
at lower prices than anybody
except Japan, but it is not so
serious as her onslaught on
Western Europe. From the
export figures for the early part
of this year it seems likely that
this cut-price competition will
become even more severe.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Chair of Literature
In some recent comment, such as “A
Chair for Henry” (B. 18/7/’56), there
is a tendency to view the proposed chair
of Australian literature in terms of its
value to the practising Australian author.
Is this a minor manifestation of the
parochial outlook touched on in Professor
Milgate’s original article (B. 20/6/’56)?
Chairs of English Literature were
never established in England in order
to train writers to contribute to the
national literature; they were established
to further the academic study of the
subject. This remains the only worth-
while reason for founding a Chair of
Australian Literature at the University
of Sydney.
It would be idle to appoint a professor
in order to ensure that Australian
authors will in future be more educated
than Henry Lawson, or in the hope that
he might institute training-courses for
writers and generally bring his influence
to bear on the production of Australian
literature itself. '
Professors are usually valueless in these
ways, and so would be the literature
produced. Even if the appointee were
sufficiently gifted to carry out such a
programme, it would not be his proper
business, for this is not one of the
purposes which universities exist to
serve.
The establishment of a Chair of Aus-
tralian Literature will mean the applica-
tion to Australian writing of academic
standards in criticism and of scholarly
techniques of editing and research. We
misunderstand the role of the university
in the community by requiring the
appointee to help supply the literature,
as well as to appraise it. The first job
will best be left to the Australian writers,
and the second will be best discharged
by the professor.— Shindig (N.S.W.).
Cost of Living
The basic reason for the high cost of
everything (B. 1/8/’56) is downright
laziness.
This laziness is most prevalent among
the under-thirties—the young chaps who
should have been putting their shoulders
to the wheel and giving the older blokes
a hand. I’ve just been watching a case
in point. Two men have been building
about 30yds. of footpath near where I
work. They had to dig out grassed sand
—the easiest digging in the world —to a
depth of 6-Bin. and put holding-timbers
in place on each side of the path. Then
a tip-truck dumped white sand in con-
venient heaps along the path and the
two men spread it. Another truck did
the same with gravel—one load, about
five tons, more than enough for the
job. This was spread and levelled.
Twenty years ago, when I was swinging
a banjo, that wouldn’t have been much
more than a day’s work for two men. It
took these two eight days. Or, rather,
it took one of them, an oldster, eight
days. His young cobber loafed
unashamedly.
I’ve seen the same thing on building-
jobs. A woman I know asked a
plumbing-firm to attend to the guttering
and downpipes. A representative of the
firm turned-up without tools about 2
p.m., sized-up the 'job, had a yarn,
intimated it would cost a packet and
discovered it was too late to start, even
if he’d had tools. Said he’d be back in
the morning.
He was —with only half the tools. His
mate turned-up with the rest at mid-
morn, and together they sized-up the job
again. That took till lunch-time, and
they were commiserating with the owner
over the high costs of repairs when her
restraint or something snapped and she
opened out on them. What she said was
so close to the point that they hopped-in
after dinner and did the job in two
hours. It could have been done the
previous afternoon.
The same thing applies to motor-
repairs, electrical work, building generally
and practically everything where labor-
costs count. I’m not suggesting that the
average Australian worker is a loafer. He
isn’t—both as a tradesman and a laborer
he’ll run rings around any of the
Europeans I’ve seen. But he’s carrying
too many loafers, and they’re mostly
youngsters.
It isn’t all one-sided, either. A lot of
employers aren’t too fond of work, and
they’ve become so used to charging what
they like and making big profits from
little effort that the excess is taken as
normal. Too many employers work on
the principle that costs don’t matter
"Guaranteed to remove all freckles, moles, birthmarks !”
except as a basis for estimating their
profit.
I don’t know where it’s going to stop
or what will stop it. The determining
factor could be a depression. Or it
could be a growing, virile Asiatic nation
with the idea that it could do more with
our country than we can. If that happens
our young men will have to fight a lot
harder than they’re prepared to work.—
Squinter (W.A.).
State Housing
Among the many interesting facts
emerging from the report of Victoria’s
Royal Commission on Housing are state-
ments that “quite a number of parents
spent more than a reasonable sum on
drinking and smoking” and that “a check
around the metropolitan area indicated
that nearly 50 per cent, of Housing Com-
mission tenants” each had a motor-
vehicle—sometimes not owned by him—
regularly parked at or outside his house.
These statements should be borne in
mind in considering the royal commis-
sion’s view on the functions of a State
housing-authority. State housing, in the
commission’s opinion, “cannot be
entirely self-supporting.. . . While the
housing-shortage continues the State
must continue to provide houses for the
many people on lower incomes who
cannot afford to pay the cost of purchase
of a house.”
There can be no question that the
State has a duty to see that those who
are really destitute, the aged and the
infirm, have adequate accommodation.
But to extend this obligation to the pro-
vision of housing for ordinary able-
bodied people in full employment is not
only absurd but manifestly unfair to the
great bulk of the population who
shoulder their own burdens in relation
to housing, as in everything else. And
the royal commission’s own evidence
that one tenant in every eight is in arrears
with rent —rent fixed with regard to size
of family and income —suggests that a
proportion of the State’s tenants are
inclined to rely too much upon the
State’s benevolence as a landlord.
Much of the comment in the royal
commission’s report concerning the hard-
ships endured by“ Housing Commission
, tenants would be equally applicable to
many families outside Housing Commis-
sion homes. Particularly where there is
only one breadwinner, most parents with
several children are finding it hard to
maintain a reasonable standard of living
in the face of continual rises in the cost
of food, clothing and other essentials.
It is surprising, too, for the struggling,
independent citizen who has shouldered
his own housing problems to read that
one out of every two Housing Commis-
sion tenants either owns or has the use
of a motor-vehicle.
In short, the royal-commission report
suggests that, far from providing houses
only for those in dire need, Victoria’s
housing-authority has made costly accom-
modation available to far too many who
could very well afford to fend for them-
selves. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Railways /
History supports “Transporticus” (B.
8/8/’56) on the value of railways in war.
Before World War II Hitler concen-
trated on autobahnen and neglected the
eisenbahnen, but early in the war he
switched and gave higher priority to the
manufacture of locomotives than to that
of tanks.
Other cases:
After the Russo-Japanese War in
1904, when Russia was overwhelmed by
the Japs, General Kuropatkin reported
to Russian headquarters: “The Japs
came on us before our lifeline of supply,
the Trans-Siberian railway, was properly
finished and ready for traffic. It could
only run three trains per day, and so the
Japs won. If it could have let us have
six trains per day we would have won
handsomely.”
In the winter of 1854-55 the British
Army on the heights above Sebastopol
was on the point of perishing from
starvation and exposure because of the
utter inability of horse-drawn transport
to get supplies up from the ships at.
Balaclava to the heights. At very short
notice the Civilian Work Corps, under
control of Messrs. Peto, Brassey and
Betts, famous English railway-contrac-
tors, left Birkenhead on December 21,
1854. By May, 1855, they had built the
railway to Cathcarts Hill camp. The
Army was fed and a huge stockpile of
shells, cannonballs and all munitions had
been built-up ready for the grand assault
on the Redan.
Then there was the first example of a
large mass-movement of troops by rail-
way. On September 23, 1863, word was
received in Washington that General
W. S. Rosecran’s army had been severely
defeated at Chickamanga in Georgia and
wanted speedy help. An immediate con-
ference was held with Army-chiefs and
with Garrett, president of the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad. At midnight Presi-
dent Lincoln joined them. It was decided
to send 20,000 men from the Army of the
Potomac to Georgia, the* question being
how to get them there quickly. At first
the railway experts said 50-60 days,
which was useless. After further calcu-
lations E. Eckert, Chief of Army Com-
munications, said it could be done in 15
days, at which some of the soldiers, such
as fighting Joe Hooker, openly laughed.
Troops began moving on September 25,
however, and the operation was com-
pleted in 11 days. Rosecran’s army was
saved by speedy rail-transport.
Australia’s chief strategic railways are
the east-west and the north-south, the
latter promised but never completed.
We’ll need them both, and in good order,
if ever an enemy lands in this country.—
George Beesley (N.S.W.).
Steanr and Diesel
When such sweeping changes are taking
place in the field, and such exaggerated
claims are being made, it’s a pity that
more information is not available in
digestible form from the comprehensive
series of locomotive-tests in Britain.
The latest trials deal with a 2000-h.p.
diesel-electric, and “The Engineer” has
considered the performance sufficiently
important to merit a leader. After pay-
ing tribute to the scientific accuracy of
the tests and to the value of the data
obtained, the journal points out that this
machine is the prototype of a series
designed for heavy-express working, and
at powers ranging from 2000 h.p. to 2300
h.p. they are the largest available in
current service.
The tests showed that at full power
such units would be incapable of pro-
ducing more than 1600 h.p. at the draw-
bar at 60-70 m.p.h., and would therefore
be quite incapable of effecting any
improvement in perfprmance over the
very ordinary steam-locos, of reasonably
modern design. “The Engineer” sug-
gests that a minimum of 3000 h.p. should
be aimed at, but admits that only the
untried English Electric “Deltic,” at
3300 h.p., is even a possibility in that
range.
Double-heading, as used in Aus-
tralia, is a simple solution if costs don’t
matter, but few responsible organisations
care for the idea of tacking £lOO,OOO per
locomotive on to the already high cost
of diesel power.— Transporticus (Singa-
pore). i
Hire-purchase
The volume of hire-purchase might be
reduced by some clear thinking and clear
statements on interest-charges. In most
cases the hirer is left in the dark as to
what he is paying for the privilege of
buying on terms.
The law in N.S.W. requires certain
facts to be shown on the h.-p. agree-
ment, but the interest-charge is lumped
together with insurance and other charges
which tend to obscure the position. Also,
in many cases h.-p. agreements are signed
in blank, and the hirer has no idea of
the total cost.
Finance-companies are very wary of
the word “interest.” They prefer “hiring-
charge” or “finance-charge,” because it
gets away from the association between
interest and percentage.
If the purchaser of a new car realised
that he was paying a pound a week in
interest he would think carefully, before
concluding the deal. Possibly he would
put it off until he had saved a larger
deposit.— Mullum (N.S.W.).


KEROSENE TILLEY PRESSURE
/
sssS
/ / \
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT/N OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIS
OSUIUYAtf
rA
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yorlt
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER";
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
telegrams and Cablei
■‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
/
/
/
m
mm
5?
01
Patent No. 156596
m
s,
I
tiff!
bs
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/- AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
• High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
O Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
O The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an ;-“ot Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season !... .increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS —S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd. ; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. IV.A.: Wigmores Ltd. ;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe: British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gvmpie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
Prices and Costs
When war-time price-fixing and other
controls were lifted it was expected that
increased production » and competition
between manufacturers and between
traders would lead to reduced prices and
improved quality of goods.
To a large extent, however, industries
have since introduced their own price-
fixing, with the result that there is little
competition in business. This phenomenon
is not peculiar to Australia—quotes
received from United Kingdom firms for
the supply of goods have frequently been
identical in price. It is no strange coinci-
dence that the economy of the U.K. is in
much the same predicament as our own.
In both countries private-enterprise com-
petition, as we knew it in pre-war days,
has been hamstrung.
When industry fixes its own price,
that price is often the one which will
permit the least efficient unit to operate
profitably. Perhaps go-slow by em-
ployees and their refusal to work even
a 40-hour week has led to private price-
fixing. If so, then it is up to managements
to weed-out the inefficients and to oblige
their employees to work full hours.
Price-fixing by industry invites Govern-
ment intervention. This could take the
form of Government price-fixing at
efficiency-rates.
The alternative would be for the
Federal Government to take a risk with
our overseas reserves and allow an influx
of imports. Perhaps we could exchange
much of our surplus primary products
for a greater value of cheap goods from
good-customer countries, like France,
Japan and West Germany, in order to
force efficiency in our own industries.
How else are we going to cut prices and
costs?— K. Me. (N.S.W.).
N.S.W. Institute of Journalists
The N. S. Wales Institute of Journalists
has come to an end, although certainly
through no fault of the latter-day com-
mittee. Knowing that the institute had
done much useful work and believing
that it could continue to do so, the
committee did all the “doctoring” of
which its members were, capable, but it
wasn’t enough.
In the words of Dr. C. E. W. Bean
(vice-president), the officers “completely
failed” in their efforts to gain support
“from certain proprietors and leading
executives,” and so it was decided, a few
weeks ago, to wind up the institute’s
affairs and donate its remaining funds
to the University of Sydney. The money
is to be used for an annual award, “the
N.S.W. Institute of Journalists’ Prize,”
in the Department of English, and is to
be allotted to the Department of Aus-
tralian Literature (if that be formed) for
the best pass in the final year.
As another final action, the institute
associated itself with the Australian
Journalists’ Association in founding a
“Journalists’ War Memorial Prize” at
the university.
It seems fair enough to say, therefore,
that the institute capped a useful existence
by making beneficial gestures in its last
hours. Certainly it died game.
The purpose of founding the organisa-
tion, back in 1912, appears to have been
twofold. One object was to enable pro-
prietors of publications, their executives,
and writers generally to get together and
exchange ideas. The other, and maybe
the chief one, was to provide a medium
through which Australian public men
“Mister Speaker, I draw attention to the state of the House."
and visitors of some tonnage could meet
and address those newspapermen who, in
the nature of their particular jobs, don’t
get around much.
Along the years the institute thus
entertained, overall, considerable quan-
tities of Governors-General, Governors,
Prime Ministers and other notabilities,
and, naturally, the contacts promoted
understanding between public men and
newspapers and produced many informa-
tive pronouncements.
For example, many Sydney news-
papermen saw and heard Scullin and
Theodore for the first time when, as
the new Prime Minister and new
' Treasurer, they visited Sydney together
to address the Institute of Journalists.
Numbers of politicians from overseas also
made their chief contacts with Australian
newspapermen, as a group, through the
institute.
Among English visitors was Chancellor
Sir Robert Horne, who told his gathering
(among other things) that he always
imagined leader-writers to be sitting on
Olympus while delivering their judg-
ments. One reporter who noted that
statement became a trifle mixed later
through a similarity in shorthand out-
lines, and so, in his published account,
caused the leader-writers to sit on “lamp-
posts.” Still, as Horne said later, that
was near enough to Olympus for modern
purposes.
In the heyday of the institute those
addresses by the journalists’ guests, as
well as the introductory remarks of the
presidential host, were comprehensively
reported in the newspapers. Not so in
recent years. Even the present Governor-
General, who made an entertaining and
thoughtful speech to the institute a year
or two ago, rated very scanty attention
in the dailies.
That change, obviously, has not been
due to any falling-away in the status of
the institute’s guests. It is explained by
the change in the newspapers themselves
—Sir William Slim himself made some
reference to this subject in deploring
(tactfully enough) certain aspects of
modern journalism.
In general, potential guests of the
institute rallied round quite readily, since
an invitation to meet the proprietors,
editors and leading writers of various
newspapers and periodicals was not
something that could be brushed-off.
“Sydney Morning Herald” was well
represented in the organisation in other
years. Various Fairfaxes attended fre-
quently, and presidents included
“Herald” editors T. W. Heney (he reigned
for the first eight years), Brunsdon
Fletcher (four years), and H. A. McClure-
N Smith, as well as several other notable
“Herald” products, such as Charlie Bean,
Lance Fallaw and Elliott Napier. The
same paper gave the institute its honorary
secretary of many years’ standing, Jack
Davenport.
Other papers, of course, contributed
presidential material between whiles.
The last one was Harry Budd, M.L.C.,
managing editor of the “Land,” who
strove hard, though unsuccessfully, to
keep the ship afloat.
Rather remarkably, in a city not un-
familiar with such things, the institute
got through more than 40 years with
very little domestic strife or all-in con-
tests for presidential office. The only
president to encounter trouble was the
ebullient Adam McCay, who at a
gathering in 1923 made certain pungent,
if jocular, remarks about a newspaper
general-manager ; and the only contest
for the presidency (other appointments
were “arranged”) was one in the late
1920’5, when Alec Chisholm, then editor
of the “Daily Telegraph’s” Sunday issue,
routed Tom Shakespeare, M.L.C.
Aside from the matter of contacts, the
institute set its collective shoulder to
various healthy undertakings from time
to time. At one stage it attempted to
establish a code for journalists, but
having no powers of enforcement it
finally left that difficult job to a larger,
more industrialised, Australia : wide
organisation, the A.J.A.
Incidentally, because the functions
f of the institute and the A.J.A. differed,
there was never any rivalry between
those two bodies. Rather more resem-
blance obtained between the institute and
Sydney’s Journalists’ Club, and the
latter group, now strong, has tended of
late to take over the entertaining of
V.I.P.s.
The fact remains, however, that there
is now no medium through which the
twofold objects of the Institute of
Journalists can be met. And that, in the
light of the institute’s record, is distinctly
regrettable. Castlereagh Street
(N.S.W.).


r
f
!
y'y.'y
m
i
'i
L
-MUM
si sjm
' ■“ ■* «■ m!
King Neptune’s
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM
containing
I.C.A
Completely eliminates knock ... gives instant
starting, better acceleration, maximum power
and more miles to the gallon.
‘Super’ Grade with a dashing difference
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM
62i
NEPTUNE
PREMIUM
G 3
/««e?s\
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
NEW APPROACH TO FLYSTRIKE
TT is not clear when, precisely,
the blowfly became a problem
for the sheepman, but it is
generally accepted that sheep-
striking flies first appeared on
the N.S.W. tablelands, and were
later taken to the plains by
sheep which had been away on
agistment during the 1902
drought. There are plainsmen
still alive who can remember
when it was only necessary to
yard sheep twice a year—for
lamb-marking and shearing.
Since those golden days the
woolgrower’s routine of work
has been largely determined by
the activity or otherwise of the
pest. In fact, it’s highly probable
that the blowfly has been a
major influence in'the evolution
of the present-day Merino —but
for the susceptibility of wrinkled
sheep to flystrike we might still
be breeding the concertina-
skinned Merino so popular about
the turn of the century.
Methods employed to control
flystrike were, first, crutching,
then arsenical jetting, followed
by the mules-operation, and
finally a return to jetting, this
time with newer and better
insecticides. The present com-
bination of the last two methods
has achieved sufficient success
for graziers to think, with some
justification, that the problem
has been solved.
True, by comparison with
past years, science over the last
decade has given the woolgrower
formidable weapons. And used
properly—as recommended, for
instance, by Dr. H. G. Bel-
schner in his article in The
Bulletin’s “Sheep and Wool”
issue—he may reasonably hope
to come through a wave of fly-
strike with only few losses.
The latest insecticides will
protect sheep for quite long
periods. The catch is that, no
matter how careful an owner is,
there will always be some sheep
untreated, and therefore vulner-
able ; and sometimes weather-
conditions prevent any treatment
being given at the proper time,
with disastrous results.
This was made clear during
the first quarter of the present
year, when flood-rains on the
N.S.W. north-western rivers
caught thousands of unprotected
sheep in one of the worst waves
of flystrike ever.
There was no element of-
neglect involved. The rains just
turned the paddocks into bogs,
making it impossible to muster.
Then down came the rivers,
isolating thousands of and
creating the major problem of
how to keep them fed, let alone
treat them for fly.
Is it cruel to mark and
tail lambs and mark calves
by Elastrator rubber rings?
The findings of the British
Veterinary Association sup
port the claim that, pro-
vided they are used on
newly-born lambs and calves
Elastrator rubber rings
cause no discomfort or pain.
The findings are quoted in
full in the “Elastrator Bulle-
tin,” a copy of which is
available on application to
Elastrator (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
125 William Street, Mel-
bourne.
So the flystrike problem is not
yet solved. Every measure so
far with the exception of
trapping; and that has been
been a protective
one.
Reliance on defensive methods
meank that sheepowners will
have to put up with periodic
waves of flystrike, for reasons
mentioned. There is, too, the
risk that the protective power of
the new insecticides will be
lessened by the development of
resistant or tolerant strains of
blowfly.
To adopt offensive measures
against the blowfly—to try to
reduce the blowfly-population,
directly or by restricting its
breeding—implies quite a dif-
ferent approach to the problem.
It is interesting to note that
something like this has already
happened overseas.
American cattlemen have to
combat an insect-pest known as
“screw-worm,” which is the
parasitic maggot of a fly that
“blows” cattle in a manner com-
parable with flystrike of sheep
here. Eggs are laid in Wounds or
other breaks in the skin and the
maggot burrows into the flesh.
It is known that the female
“screw-worm”-fly mates only
once, so male flies were sterilised
by irradiation with radioactive
cobalt, then released.
These sterile males are still
capable of mating, and do so,
but, of course, they cannot
fertilise the eggs. Eggs laid by
the female following such sterile
matings deposited on cattle,don’t
produce maggots. There’s that
much less annoyance for a pro-
portion of the cattle and the
life-cycle is broken in a certain
number of cases. Up to 400
sterile males were released each
week for each square-mile of
territory. Results are claimed
to be good.
It is a refreshingly new
approach to insect-control. For
one thing, it means that the
parasite is not required to attack
a protected host in order to
bring about its own destruction.
Whether this method, or some
modification of it, would be
workable with our flystrike
problem is something that could
only be determined by trial and
error. There is not sufficient
evidence at present that the two
cases have enough features in
common to justify a comparison.
It is not known whether
Lucilia mates more than once,
but a leading authority states
that eggs deposited towards the
end of the fly’s life may be
infertile.
Relative sparseness of settle-
ment in our sheep-country might
be a difficulty; but this might
be offset, to some extent, by the
distances that flies are known
to travel —up to a 10-mile
radius.
On the face of it, the method
seems to be worth a trial: pre-
ferably in a closely-settled' area,
where distribution wouldn’t be
a problem and where results
could be easily watched.
Unless checked by some
means, any organisms tend to
increase until they ultimately
dominate their environment.
Under natural conditions the
main factors that operate to
maintain a balance in Nature are
availability of food and parasites.
Flies are unlikely to run out of
food.
Birds, small rodents, ants and
other insects do prey upon flies —
therefore, within our meaning,
are parasites—but the encourage-
ment of any of these doesn’t
seem to offer the solution of
reducing the fly-population.
Some are unpleasant enough in
themselves; others breed too
slowly to match the fly’s rapid,
multiple reproduction.
To serve as a useful control
a parasite must, uncler natural
conditions, multiply pari passu
with its host. This requirement
is met by micro-organisms. A
bacterial disease is just as much
a form of parasitism as are fleas
on a dog. In either case, one
'organism gets its living off the
other.
The habits of blowflies make
them rather suitable subjects for
spreading bacterial disease
among themselves. At times —
for instance, when laying eggs —
they are intensely communal,
and at other times they range
widely afield. They are thus
adapted to transfer disease, not
only from one insect to another
but from place to place, with-
out the need of a vector, as is
required for spreading myxoma-
tosis. A bacterial disease of
blowflies might be expected to
sweep across a district like a
grass-fire.
Bacterial disease of insects is
not unknown. It is, at times, a
problem among domestic insects
such as silkworms and bees. The
disease known as foul-brood of
bees is a local example.
It would be a biological oddity
if there did not exist, somewhere
in the world, a bacteria, virus or
fungus which is pathogenic to
Lucilia, and which could be
exploited to give a measure of
control over this pest.
Every extra scrap of
knowledge gained about a prob-
lem increases the chances of
solution. If it ever became desir-
able to breed bigger, better and
more fecund blowflies- —which
Heaven forbid! —one of the first
lines of investigation would be
in the field of genetics.
Might not the converse be
true? Where suppression of a
species is the objective, surely a
study of its modes of inheritance
becomes of prime importance.
The amount of information that
could be put together on this
subject should be enormous,
judging from what was done
with Drosophila, a species of
fruitfly that was extensively used
by researchers in the early days
of genetics.
Most insects are well adapted
for genetic research, because
they are easily maintained, breed
prolifically, and have a short
life-cycle, which makes possible
the study of a large number of
generations in a relatively short
time. It was just these character-
istics that led to the use of
Drosophila by the early workers
in genetics, and as a result of
that work just about everything
that there is to know about the
insect was brought to light.
Not only was the inheritance
of characteristics specific to this
insect unravelled but a great deal
of information that threw new
light on the elementary
mechanisms of the Mendelian
theory of inheritance was put
together. These studies, in fact,
played a large part in raising the
science of genetics to its present
status.
Many mutant types, and the
results of their mating with the
wild type, were studied. These
mutants included some with
deficient organs and a number
of lethal and semi-lethal types.
As far as writer knows, this
research was basic in nature and
not prompted by economic con-
siderations. There seems no
reason why it should not be
repeated with Lucilia, consider-
ing the importance of the blowfly
in our economy. A parasite that
costs the country possibly £2O-
- at present wool-values
would seem to merit the most
intense research. In particular,
close study of aberrant types and
the results of their matings with
the wild type might, in time,
locate one that was suitable for
release in the field.
Mutations are occurring all
the time, and sometimes the
process is hastened by exposure
to radioactive material —this is
one of the risks of atomic
explosions.
The discovery that Lucilia
strikes sheep only after the
animal has developed a patch of
skin-irritation that renders it
“susceptible” was a major piece
of work, but its full implications
may have been overlooked.
In this • writer’s opinion,
formed as a result of more than
30 years’ acquaintance with the
problem, only a small propor-
tion of flies seek out sheep:
otherwise, at the peak of a fly-
wave, damage would be over-
whelming.
It is not necessary for Lucilia
to parasitise sheep to survive. It
also uses carrion freely. It is
therefore improbable that the
live sheep is its natural breeding-
ground. It is much more likely
that, in the natural scheme of
things, the maggots of this fly
served a useful purpose as
scavengers of dead animal-
matter. The inflamed area of
skin that forms the site of the
primary strike has been
described as “necrotic” —that is,
dead. So it might well be asked
whencb came this partiality for
living flesh.
Organisms as low in evolu-
tionary scale as insects do not,
as a rule, readily change their
inborn habits. An acceptable
explanation of the association
that has developed between
Lucilia and the live sheep would
be that at some time in the past
a mutation , occurred which
brought into being a new strain
or race of fly with this new habit,
and this strain bred-up.
Mutation is the generally
accepted mechanism by which
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(12/8/’56)
Present indications suggest that the Single cycle is still
the main seasonal control, and in consequence many areas
of Queensland should receive general rains during Sep-
tember, with heavier falls occurring during October and a
possibility of flooding in the south-west.
General rains should continue in N.S.W. during Sep-
tember, light on the central coast, heavier in the Riverina
and western division. Further heavy falls are likely in
December.
General rains should continue in Victoria during Sep-
tember, heaviest in the northern division, with the likelihood
of renewed flooding. South Australia should receive general
rains throughout.
In the south-west of Western Australia moderate
general rains may occur, with good rains in the Kimberleys,
North Gascoyne and part of the goldfields area. Mainly
dry in the balance of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
E
Os
OM.
boh*
i d\i€a£ol.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65*/. TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
day particular* gladly supplied—
Writ. *• DAVIS GELATINE: GAO Im 1581,
SYDNEY • GAO. Eoi 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 7SSK. BRISBANE
• GAO Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Missing Friend
WOULD relatives, or any person know-
ing the whereabouts of relatives of the
late JAMES CUMMINGS, who immi-
grated to New Zealand from Australia
approximately 20 years ago, please com-
municate with the District Manager,
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua, New
Zealand.
ot/e< m»* as *
HARDIES
'FIBROLITf
ASBESTOS-CEMENT
i&
BEDRm! m
u'.iQV Eg
104.146 r-j
gig 4 p=b
qpiNiNC “tNTH ♦ iiiifiist
d ._r- li fewi:*:*
O _i
hying I I ;s:
iV.UV H :•:¥
* l c
-mm:
Wm
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Newcastle Office : 324-326 King
Street.
Just think of it! You can build your colourful,
contemporary home, be living in it weeks earlier
... if you build with Hardie’s “Fibrolite”.
You’ll save money, too! “Fibrolite” speeds
construction, cuts building costs: And, of
course, Hardie’s “Fibrolite” is the ideal material
for Australian homes for exterior and
interior walls as well as ceilings. It is cooler in
summer, white-ant and borer proof, weather-
proof— and fire-retardant too! Moreover,
Hardie’s “Fibrolite” minimises maintenance
costs; it actually improves with age.
To: JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, FREE and POST FREE, your illustrated
Booklet with full information and designs of modern
“Fibrolite" Homes.
NAME .L □
ADDRESS _ _...
,l Fim/B
Please cross square if you would like our Representative
to call and advise you on your home building problems.
STOCKED BY
LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS.
the so-called acquired charac-
teristics arise. The theory that
these developed 'from custom,
use, or association is now dis-
credited. The new strains of
bacteria and viruses that are con-
stantly appearing are considered
to be mutants. So are the strains
of insects that “develop”
tolerance to certain insecticides.
It is a process of evolution
going on continually and ensures
the survival of the species.
Close investigation might dis-
close that partiality for sheep is
not a universal characteristic of
Lucilia. It is known, of the
species as a whole, that eggs are
laid on both carrion and live
sheep. But that does not prove
that every fly on emergence is a
potential parasite of sheep.
It might be objected that all
this doesn’t lead anywhere. It
might or might not. For
example, if sex-linked lethal
genes were located several of
these have been described in
Drosophila— and through the
release of “carrier” flies became
established in the wild race, it
could prove a valuable comple-
mentary- measure to the release
of irradiated sterile males.
These genes are carried by the
females only, and, when present,
oily half the males produced
from the eggs of a defective
female are able to live. The
result is a sex-ratio of two-thirds
female to one-third male, instead
of the normal 50-50. This would
reduce the competition to be met
by the irradiated males and
increase the chances of sterile
matings.
The fact is, we have allowed
ourselves to get into a rut over
this matter of blowfly-control.
Surely no scientist worth his
salt could remain content with
a policy that offered nothing
better than turning every sheep
into a living fly-trap, while
allowing the flies to carry on
their breeding unhindered, in the
same paddock, ready to take
advantage of the, slightest break-
down in defences.
Wars are not won by defence
alone. The first step in attack
should be the compilation of a
dossier on Lucilia that would be
the envy of any Police State,
followed by some top-level talks
to put the information to best
use.
Jackpot.
Dwarf Cattle
“S.G.”: Writer was one of a
group of Australians who
attended a lecture by the Uni-
versity of California’s Professor
of Anatomy, Dr. Julian, on
dwarfism of cattle ; about which
American cattlemen have had
cause for worry in recent years.
He illustrated their growth
characteristics with the sectioned
skulls of twin calves, one of
which was a dwarf. Bone-fusion
in a short-headed type of dwarf
begins on the first day of life
and is complete in about five
months; in the normal beast it
occurs in the 24-to-36-month
period. This fusion causes the
tight head-set typical of the
short-headed dwarf, one of the
five identified types, each of
which may be split into four or
five sub-types.
The basic dwarf-gene was first
observed in England in the
1880’s and in the United States
in 1905. But only in recent years
has the problem been con-
sidered with the seriousness it
deserves. “Life” magazine is
credited with helping to increase
the general awareness of the
condition.
The short-headed, or “snorter,”
type is characterised by an
undershot jaw, bulging forehead,
a tendency to bloat easily, and
respiratory troubles —hence the
name. At an early age it is a
low-set, blocky animal which
appears to give promise of
becoming just what the breeder
of the much-publicised compact
carcass is looking for.
Dr. Gregory, of the Uni-
versity’s Veterinary School, took
us to see the yards where
researchers are deliberately
breeding dwarfs. Here were all
types —“snorters*” long-headed,
long-legged, curly-coats and
variants—-dwarf cows with calves
that had - been delivered by
Caesarian-section, and dwarf-
factor carriers of normal appear-
ance with dwarf calves.
As research progressed, Dr.
Gregory developed a profilo-
meter [details of which have been
given in an earlier “Man on the
Land” article] which proved
90 per cent, effective in determin-
ing bulls which carried the gene
of the short-headed variety, the
only identified type at that stage.
But the problem became more
complex when other types were
identified. A later development
has been the progeny-testing of
bulls mated with a given number
of known carrier-cows.
An indication that American
breeders, in the main, have
adopted a more realistic
approach to the problem than
burying dwarfs behind the barn
is the number of beasts donated
to the University for research ;
including a “snorter”-type cow
whose sire sold for $lB,OOO.
Asked how breeders could
prevent dwarfs appearing in their
herds, Dr. Gregory said: “Use
the scales. Breed away from the
small, compressed type of
animal and select for the highest
possible weight-gain factor.”
Pelleted Hay
“Duroc”: Advantage of
pelleted hay over long and
chaffed hay was shown recently
at the University of Illinois
(U.S.A.): fed to steer-calves, it
was worth nearly $l6 (say, £AB)
a ton more than the other types.
In a 119-day trial, calves on
pelleted hay gained 2061 b. a
head, compared with 751 b. and
741 b. from long and chaffed hay
respectively. After 28 days,
calves on the same forage which
had been made into silage had
lost 481 b.-a-head because they
could not eat enough of the high-
moisture product.
Calves ate 15.71 b. of pelleted
hay containing 14.31 b. of dry-
matter a day—about more
than steers of their age and
weight would be expected to eat.
Steers on pelleted hay needed
only 8261 b. dry-matter to gain
1001 b. liveweight. The pellets
produced 175 per cent, more gain
on 50 per cent, more total food
eaten.
Steers on long and chaffed hay
ate 9.51 b. and 9.31 b. of dry-
matter a day respectively in 1 lib.
of total feed. Dry-matter intake
was about Hlb. below recom-
mended daily amounts.
Rubbing-post
“C.P.G.”: To make an oil-
rubbing-post for pigs take
4ft. 6in. of 2in. piping and drill
four rows of iin. holes to a
distance of 2ft. from one end.
Bind bagging tightly a few
times round the part of the pipe
with the holes, bind in place
with smooth wire (be careful to
leave no sharp ends), and then
put the pipe firmly in the
ground (bedded in concrete is
better), leaving the bag-covered
ehd 2ft. 6in. out of the ground.
Pour thin concrete down the
pipe until it comes up to the
first of the |in. holes. When set,
fill the pipe with sump-oil. It
will soak out through the holes,
making avery satisfactory
rubbing- and oiling-post.
Retarded Beef
“Big Billy”: Work at Belts-
ville Research Station (Washing-
ton, U.S.A.) seems to upset
some hitherto-accepted ideas on
feeding cattle.
Dr. Winchester, the animal-
physiologist at Beltsville, used
six pairs of identical-twin calves
(five pure Aberdeen Angus, one
Hereford-Guernsey cross) in the
experiment. One of each pair
was “retarded” —put on short
feed —the other fed liberally.
Experimental animals were
fed at each of the following
levels: (1) Maintenance, or
about 50 per cent, of liberal
ration; (2) 62 per cent, of liberal
ration ; (3) 75 per cent, of liberal
ration. The two lower allow-
ances were fed to the steers for
six months between the ages of
six and 12 months, but the 75
per cent, allowance was fed for
a little longer period..
At the end of the period the
retarded animals were fed a
liberal ration. The controls were
given a liberal allowance
throughout the experiment. Low-
calories rations were deficient
only in energy.
Steers in the 75 per cent, group
gained lib. per day, the 62 per
cent, group 0.51 b., but neither
gained nor lost weight on the
maintenance-allowance.
After the period of reduced
intake ended, all animals gained
weight rapidly and economically.
Each steer was slaughtered when
it reached about 10001 b.
Although the retarded animals
reached the slaughter-weight
from 10 to 20 weeks later than
those fed more liberally, they
went on to reach 10001 b. on
about the same intake of energy
as the others.
This surprising result indicated
that the retarded animals made
more economical gain than their
co-twins. Carcass-grades and
meat-quality of the retarded
steers were not lowered appre-
ciably by the period of low-
energy intake.
The experiment demonstrated
that under conditions of feed-
scarcity beef-cattle between six
and 12 months can be carried
at an energy-level as low as
maintenance, if the nutritional
needs other than those for
energy are available, without loss
later in efficiency in feed-utilisa-
tion. meat-quality, or in the pro-
portion of lean meat as com-
pared with fat and bone in the
carcass.
was emphasised that ability
to ga i n we i g ht was predomi-
nantly an inherited factor. Good
feed would never be a substitute
for good bubs .
U* *
raPlll rllllTS
.
aiue : wnen ourning
make
. P. , , ’
, ’ f P , th snace
d . t . w ; tb
i iatriZ
S'htthroueh theholesT^
the d^um will keep the stump
burning until it is burnt-out, as
well as doing the job ickl
« A ». A sheep heavily
infested with barbers’-pole
worms loses up to a pint of
b i oo d every 10 days. Delay in
treatment means heavy losses.
“J.R.”: Most graziers don’t
realise the versatility of the two-
way disk-harrow: first-rate for
cutting tracks,-fire-breaks, bank-
j n g-up dirt on netting-fences or
filling trench for same, sowing
a strip G f grass-seed across a
paddock, and so on.
“L.”: Heavy cypress-pine logs
on a netting-fence at river-
crossings make good flood-gates,
As the water rises the logs lift the
netting, as the water falls they
usually drop Lack into position,


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDN£Y
and apologised for creating a
disturbance in his bar. He was
very decent about it. After
making me feel quite blameless,
he inquired after my eye. I
admitted, in a masterly under-
statement, that it was a bit sore
to touch, but otherwise quite all
right.
“I bet she’s a little beaut,” he
chuckled. “Anythin’ I can do
for y’, Bob?”
“Yes, you might pass the
word to my mustering-team to
be here the day after New Year’s
Day.”
“Ain’t y’ cornin’ in for Noo
Year?”
He sounded quite surprised.
“No,” I answered, “1 very
definitely am not.”
TjLfITHIN a few hours I had to
reverse that decision, be-
cause Mrs. Greer rang and
invited me to dinner. They
were having a turkey, she
informed me, a present from
one of the Doctor’s patients.
Such a waste with only three
people to eat it. They’d have it
in the evening, as it was so hot
in the middle of the day. Would
six-thirty suit me? Six-thirty
on New Year’s Day?
J thanked .her and said it
would. 'Wfith nearly a week’s
notice, I had no excuse.
New Year’s Day was hot. It
was even hot when we sat down
to dinner at six-thirty, but with
the help of a few bottles of cold
beer we made quite a sizeable
impression on the turkey.
The shire clerk and his wife
drifted in for a game of bridge
just as we were finishing dinner,
so Carla and I undertook to do
the washing-up. 1
“That must have been a
corker eye,” Carla remarked, as
she tied the apron around her
waist. “It’s still a bit purple.”
I agreed, and took a tea-
towel from the rack. “I suppose
you heard all the gory details.”
“Yes. Straight from the
horse’s mouth. Curly told Doc.”
“At least you got it from a
reliable source. What about
doing those glasses?”
She washed them, put them
in front of me, and said, “You
were a bit of a goat to let your-
self get dragged into a thing
like that, weren’t you?”
“I didn’t have much choice,”
I defended. “Albert’s been
gunning for me ever since he
left Yakaparni. And if there’s
one stupid crack that gets me
mad it’s that ancient one about
the boss’s daughter.”
“Have you ever asked your-
self why?” She thrust her
hands deep into the hot soapy
water and withdrew a collection
of gleaming cutlery. “Do these
while they’re hot ... I mean, if
there wasn’t a certain amount
of truth in it would it make you
mad?”
I threw the tea-towel down
and said, “Now, look here,
Carla. Don’t you start on
that.”
“Or you’ll haul off and take
a crack at me?” She was smiling
as she said it, not laughing at
me, but just smiling in a quiet,
understanding way. “Please,
Bob, pick up the tea-towel and
dry the silver before it gets stone-
cold. And try to look at things
reasonably, without flying into
a temper. Do you know that
Julie Carson is in love with
you?”
T PICKED up the tea-towel. I
took time over it, time enough
to take Carla’s advice about
flying into a temper, before say-
ing, “If we’re going to look at
things reasonably, Carla, you
might wake up to yourself and
remember that Julie Carson is
only a child.”
“She’s nineteen. And you still
haven’t started on that silver.”
She smiled again, and waited for
me to resume work. “Julie is
old enough to know her own
mind. Anyone you would
know she made it up ages ago.”
I scoffed at the idea, evidently
raising my voice, because from
the sitting-room Mrs. Greer
raised hers and called, “Are you
two doing the dishes or only
arguing?”
“Both, Mother.” Carla rattled
the first lot of plates loudly and
hissed, “For Heaven’s sake,
Bob, don’t just stand there with
that silver in your hand. Dry
it.”
Plate after plate clattered on
to the draining-board, and then
she shook the soapsuds impati-
ently from her hands, and faced
me defiantly. “There was a
time, Bob, when I hoped you’d
ask me to marry you. Even you
couldn’t be so dense that you
didn’t realise that.' But I gave
up that hope a long while
ago ... No, don’t start making
excuses. I know now, in fact
I’ve known for months, that
you’ll marry Julie Carson in
spite of her being your boss’s
daughter.”
I protested hotly, calmed-
down and tried to explain things
to Carla. She was away off the
track with all her fantastic ideas
about Julie.
Apart from the fact that I
was nearly old enough to be her
father, I had never liked the
kid, I said. In fact, I had taken
a dislike to her the moment I
met her, and she had never
missed an opportunity to
express an equal dislike for me.
But, most important of all, was
my deep-rooted contempt for
the type of man described by
Albert —the useless jackeroo
who makes his future by
marrying the boss’s daughter.
Carla washed dishes expertly,
and smiled quietly through it
all.
“You should have been a
lawyer,” she said, when I finally
stopped. “You put up a marvel-
lous case.” She took down a
second tea-towel and attacked
the pile of wet dishes on the
draining-board/ “It’s a pity
you’re not as expert at drying-
up. We’ll be here till midnight
at the rate you’re going.”
I drove home to Yakaparni
hating myself, hating Julie, and
alternately admiring Carla and
cursing her stupid obstinacy.
Very nicely, but very firmly,
she had ended things between
us. And all for an imaginary
situation invented by gossips
and brought to a head by a surly
big quarter-caste fortified by
booze.
Had Albert suddenly loomed
up in my headlights I 'would
have stopped the car and waded
straight into him.
A mile or so from home the
headlights picked out a group
of horsemen —my stockmen
jogging out to be ready for work
next morning—and at the sight
of them I forgot everything
except the good time ahead of
us.
(To be concluded next week )
Interview
By MAUREEN LUSON
JAMES was ready to leave
for the office half-an-hour
earlier than usual; he per-
mitted his wife to fiddle
with his tie, adjust the inch of
speckless handkerchief spearing
from his breast-pocket; then he
kissed her and said, “I’ll ring you
as soon as it’s over.”
“I’ll be holding thumbs for
you, dear,” she told him.
He took a last glance in the
mirror. Yes, he decided, the
effect of the new suit was good
—authoritative, yet faintly dash-
ing ; and the tie marked him as
a man with ideas beyond the
old school.
He squared his jaw, and strode
out to the bus-stop.
In the train, his paper unread,
he went over every phrase and
intonation of his carefully-
prepared speech ; he had worked
over it every night for the past
week so that it should be con-
cise and simple, but omit no
detail. James prided himself
on his flair for details.
Details, he was wont to inform
his staff, made system—and
system made efficiency.
At the interview, he reminded
himself, there might be ques-
tions for which he was unpre-
pared ; but, without being over-
confident, he felt sure he would
be able to give adequate answers.
He must, at all costs, avoid over-
confidence, which might jar on
the smooth deference that was to
be his line.
He was pleased to find him-
self still calm when he arrived at
the office, calm enough to notice
details—the dandruff on the
office-boy’s collar, the broken
blind-fcord of the passage-
window, the eggstain on the head
clerk’s pullover, and the three
crumbs on the D-Dy filing-
cabinet. He issued orders for
the immediate removal of these
slurs on the firm’s good name.
Otherwise, the office passed
James’s inspection; no dust
marred the shining furniture, the
new rugs had been symmetrically
placed, every head in the junior
clerks’ room was sleekly brushed.
On the door to his own
sanctum, the sign had been re-
written in glossy gold: Manager:
Mr. James Jeppard.
James favored the American
style of personalising business, so
that every employee in Broddle
& Gring’s Melbourne branch
had the pleasure of seeing his
name in gold-lettering on a
door or desk-plaque. It had
been some considerable time
before James had become accus-
tomed to the glory of his
managerial door, but now he
aspired higher. Now the
gigantic letters of the firm’s
sign, and the printed notepaper
heading, ran “Broddle, Gring &
Jeppard” in James’s imagination.
A T their last meeting, old
Broddle had dropped cigar-'
ash and hints all over the office ;
he had been more than delighted
with James’s work. And now
everything hung on the result of
this morning’s interview, thought
James; his own future, and the
very future of the Melbourne
branch.
He looked at the clock and
saw, to his astonishment, that it
was already a quarter to ten.
Three-quarters-of-an-hour to
go.
The door opened to admit
the head clerk, Perce.
“It wouldn’t come olf,” said
Perce apologetically. “So I
removed the pullover.”
“Good,” said James absently,
and added, “I hope you’ll be
warm enough.”
“I’m willing to feel cold in the
interests of the firm,” said
Perce. “And, of course, in
your interests, Mr. Jeppard.
We all wish you luck.”
“Thank s, Perce.” James,
touched, smiled at the old man ;
at the same time he wished that
poor old Perce were a little less
unattractive; even without the
egg-stained pullover, Perce was,
somehow, permanently egg-
stained. Still, there were some
smart young men among the
clerks, young men who should
make an excellent impression.
He dismissed Perce with a
brusque nod.
The telephone rang, and it was
Bloston, the Adelaide represen-
tative.
“Mr. Jeppard,” said the excited
voice, “I think I’ve got that
order for sporran-pins in the
bag. It’s just a question of
underquoting our nearest com-
petitors by a Tialfpenny-a-
dozen”
Two minutes past ten.
James said: “Ring me this
afternoon. I’ve got an impor-
tant interview coming up.”
“But, Mr. Jeppard, thip is the
good oil —it’s fifty-thousand,
quid”
“This afternoon,” said James,
and hung up.
He’ arranged the necessary
papers neatly on the desk, and
wondered whether he should
smoke—a cigarette gave a man
a relaxed air. But then he
would have to sully the glistening
brass of the ash-tray—a detail,
but a detail that might be
noticed and held against him.
No, he would not smoke.
At once his whole being
craved for a cigarette.
He pushed the box away.
Eight minutes past ten.
A knock on the door.
“Come in,” said James irrit-
ably.
'THE olhce-boy sidled round
* the door.
“You said I fetter show you,
sir. To see if I’d got it O K ,” said
the office-boy. He put the tray
he was bearing on James’s desk
and breathed heavily on it.
James examined the linen
cloth, the teapot, milk-jug,
sugar-basin, cup and saucer.
“Yes, that’s all right. Have
you put the kettle on?”
“Oh, yes. She’s boiling her
head off,” said the boy.
“I told you the water shouldn’t
boil till ten-thirty precisely,”
shouted James. “I told you the
tea is not to be stewed!”
“I’m sorry, sir,” mumbled the
boy.
“Go and put a fresh lot of
water in the kettle. And don’t
light the gas till ten-twenty-two.”
“No, sir. Yes, sir.”
The boy grabbed the tray and
fled.
James sat at his desk, his
elbows on the handsome blotter,
his fingertips together; then he
tried leaning back in his chair, his
chin nonchalantly held between
his index-finger and thumb ; he
bent forward, picked up his pen,
poised it as though to sign a
letter ; he threw down the pen,
and took a large file on his
knee. But each attitude seemed
wrong; too studied, too pom-
pous, too casual, or too uncom-
fortable.
Twenty-nine minutes past
ten.
A breathless, waiting hush
descended on the office.
James rose and paced up and
down, watching the creeping
clock; he turned his back on
the clock and paced round the
desk, with short, furtive sallies
to the window.
A quarter to eleven.
Could there have been some
hitch in the arrangements? Or,
worse, could he have been
passed-over without a chance to
prove himself? James ran
quivering fingers through his
hair, and hastily combed it into
place again.
At eleven-o’clock there was a
sudden stir in the outer
doors opening, footsteps, Perce’s
respectful greeting, and—a new
voice that grated on James’s
ears as an electric-saw whines
into wood.
A ND all at once, she was sway-
ing towards him, earrings
tinkling, skirt rustling.
“Hi,” said the personage,
chewing gum rhythmically.
“How do you do, Miss
Clotte.” James stood upright,
his teeth bared in a terrible grin.
“Call me Dottie,” said the
personage graciously. “All the
boys do.” She uttered a husky
laugh without ceasing to chew/-
“Won’t you sit down . . .
Dottie!” stuttered James. The
suspense of the long wait had
shattered his poise and blacked-
out his memory.
He snatched at the cigarette-
box.
“Smoke? No? Awful habit,
isn’t it?” He lit a cigarette and
inhaled deeply.
“Could be. Well, what’s offer-
ing? Give.”
She settled herself in the
chair, crossing her legs high and
admiring the five cerise toenails
on her swinging foot.
James fumbled among his
papers, unable to recollect a
of his speech, unable to find the
draft he had written.
Facts, he thought desperately.
The bald facts will have to do.
“Hours, ten till four. No
Saturday work. An hour off
for shopping, in addition to the
lunch-hour, daily. Three hours
off for three-monthly permanent-
waves. Morning-tea with
doughquts, and afternoon-tea
with cream-cakes. Six weeks’
annual leave with full pay. One
pair of nylons weekly. Salary,
£2O weekly”—he paused for
breath, and then finished
triumphantly: “There isn’t a
better job offering in the
Southern Hemisphere! ”
“Mm. And ’tisn’t a bad
dump —for an office,” conceded
Dottie.
James said quickly, “We’re a
very happy crowd here. I
encourage the friendliest relations
between myself and my staff”...
She had looked her fill, at her
toenails, and now fixed James
with a pair of blackberry-eyes.
She removed the gum and parked
it on the ash-tray.
“You’re kind of cool. You
married?” she asked.
“Why, yes. Yes, I’m
married.”
She took an oversized radish
of a lipstick from her bag and
coated her lips anew. She stood
up, shrugging her shoulders.
“Then you’re wasting my time.
What d’you think I want to
break my nails on a typewriter
for?”
“But —Miss Clotte —Dottie—
there are several junior
clerks”
She interrupted: “You’re
crazy. Junior clerks, indeed!
S’long.”
The. interview was over.
DOTTIE had gone, leaving
only a suffocating cloud of
“Pash” perfume, and the lump
of giim in the ash-tray. James
sat with his world in ruins
around him.
He had failed to get a typist.
He would be forced to resign,
and the firm would send someone
from Sydney to take his place.
Probably Stan Daudle. Stan
was a bachelor. He would be
able to get a typist.
There was no future for a
married boss.
A married boss ...
James’s dull eyes lit again,
and he reached for the telephone,
dialled a number.
“Is that Dungdiggin, Dung-
diggin & Mcßayke, solicitors?
Put me on to Mr. Raddlestick,
please.* Mr. Raddlestick? I
want,” said James tonelessly, “to
divorce my wife.”


WATERFALL
by Dorothy Lucie Sanders
Another delightful family novel about the Montgomeries
of Pepper Tree Bay.
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
Retail Price, 15/6(1.
Hodder sand Stsughton Ltd.
OUTSTANDING AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE AUSTRALIAN
BLOODHORSE
by DOUGLAS M. BARRIE. . . the
most authoritative and comprehensive
account yet written of the history of the
stud and turf in Australia ... an invalu-
able reference for all interested in the
Australian thoroughbred.” (W. S.
McFadden, Keeper of the Stud Book).
With many magnificent coloured and
black-and-white photographs.
£6/6/- (post %/-)
ESCAPE
TO ADVENTURE
by NOEL MONK MAX a delightful
record of the' author’s adventures on land,
under the sea and on the coral reefs in
northern Queensland and on the Great
Harrier Reef, supplemented by superb
coloured and black-and-white photo-
graphs.
25/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
NOW AVAILABLE AGAIN FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
h.m.s ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
The Great Epic of the Sea
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
had suggested the name of the play
itself when Thomas had mentioned his
publishers’ horror of the hidden
obscenity of its original title; he had
procured its first performance; and to
what extent his constant support of
Thomas had made it possible and
forced it to a conclusion may be
judged from this book.
It is interesting to find that what
Americans saw in Thomas was a poetry
based on a set way-of-life and a con-
tinuing tradition that they felt they
did not have themselves, except as a
kind of Holly wood-facade. His earliest
poetry, which one could neither com-
pletely understand nor admire, was
enough to show him as one of those
rare, Shakspearian minds, organic as
a plant, flowering out of any earth, as
little conscious of their exact process
of creation as is a garden, which one
finds in Keats, perhaps in Burns —
there was another until a year or so
ago in this country: Kenneth Mac-
kenzie. That some produce practically
nothing, that others excel in little more
than one facet of. the mind that is at
the head of our literature, is some
measure of the miracle of balance that
produced Shakspeare: from this point
of view Mr. Brinnin’s study of an
enormous spiritual force wrecking itself
makes an interesting comparison with
a life that has never been written, and
of which we know almost nothing.
R. McC.
"The Edge of the Sea"
It is no small tribute to the excel-
lence of Australian Nature-writing in
recent years that even so fine a book
as Rachel Carson’s “The Sea Around
Us” could contain few surprises for
the reader familiar with Dakin,
Roughley, Joyce Allan and, covering
the geological aspects, Charles Laseron.
Largely restricted to her American
foreshores, Miss Carson’s The Edge
of the Sea (Staples; Angus and
Robertson) has to a still larger extent
this disadvantage of telling us, with
small variation, facts already made
familiar by our own writers —-we have
long been accustomed to finding the
glamorous worms like ballet-dancers
in the rock-pools and to prowling about
the be'adweed in the barnacle-zone.
Miss Carson, too, is under the com-
mon disadvantage of writers who have
to try to repeat a masterpiece—there
is some lushness, some repetition, a
preponderance of rhetoric over obser-
vation.
Nevertheless, she is a delightful
writer; the foreshores are always a
delightful territory; she has many new
facts to tell us; and many which most
readers will have forgotten. Conse-
quently it is hard to imagine that any-
one would fail to enjoy the journey
into her rocky and watery world, where
the ghost-crabs and beach-fleas burrow
deep into the sand and hibernate in
the cold weather; where the larva of
the barnacle, being as yet unprotected
by its hard shell, clings to the wave-
beaten rock as heroically as Hillary
upon Everest until it can form the tent
that no storm can shake; where the
infant mussel goes strolling on the
underside of still water upon its “foot”
like the trunk of an elephant; where
adventurous sea-snails climb high
above the tide and evolve towards a
life on land; where periwinkles grow
their 3500 teeth and, with them, rasp
away the surface of a rock-pool three-
eighths of an inch in 16 years; where
plants and the diatoms of plankton
swarm by the light of the full moon,
stimulated into existence, apparently,
by the varying intensities of polarised
light on protoplasm; where the Arctic-
jellyfish endures the cold with such
fortitude that it continues to pulsate
when half its bell is imprisoned in ice,
and has even been known to revive
after being solidly frozen for hours;
and where the common moon-jelly of
our own foreshores, familiar in the
calm waters of the Harbor or strewn
in crystal fragments on the beaches
after storms in autumn, is revealed to
partake so strangely of the nature of
both flower and animal that one could
hardly say which it is:—
Each year they come, sometimes
only a few at a time, sometimes in
immense numbers. Drifting shore-
ward, their silent approach is
unheralded even by the cries of sea-
birds, who have no interest in the
jellyfish as food, for their tissues are
largely water.
Toward autumn... .the adults are
carrying the developing larvas, hold-
ing them in the flaps of tissue that
hang from the under-surface of the
disc. The young are little pear-
shaped creatures ; when finally they
are shaken loose from the parent
(or freed by the stranding of the
parent on the shore), they swim about
in the shallow water, 'sometimes
swarms of them together. Finally
they seek bottom and each becomes
attached by the end that was fore-
most when it swam. As a tiny plant-
like growth, about an eighth of an
inch high and bearing long tentacles,
this strange child of the delicate
moon-jelly survives the winter
storms.
By the end of October all of the
season’s jellyfish have been destroyed
by storms, but their offspring sur-
vive, attached to the rocks near the
low-tide line or on near-by bottoms
offshore.
Near-by bottoms at the beaches
should, therefore, be studied with
special interest.
Reviewed Briefly
Shining Trouble: Mercedes Mackay
(Heinemann). A rather episodic
account of the growth of a gold-
mining township in central Africa and
the curious characters that are drawn
to it. It is a funny book with lots of
lively personalities and humorous
incidents, but the main theme, that of
racial hatred and discrimination, is a
serious one.
* * * *
Rox Hall- Illuminated: Phyllis Paul
(Heinemann). A strange book written
with vigor and imaginative power on
the thesis that a canonised saint may
be the victim of self-deception, telling
a false tale, deluding others. Its method
is devious, moving backwards and for-
wards over incidents in the life of a
society woman who had become a nun
and whose memoirs, dictated on her
deathbed, have given rise to a wave
of hysterical religious fervor. There is
an atmosphere of brooding evil in the
book, implied rather than stated, which
gathers in intensity to a horrifying
climax. Many will find the author’s
tone too contemptuous, her satire too
biting, but will acknowledge her power
to evoke mood and atmosphere in a
singularly poetic manner.
« * *
My Heart and I: Anne Crone
(Heinemann). A sombre tale of hard-
ship and self-sacrifice in the life of a
woman of Northern Ireland. Disap-
pointed in girlhood and in marriage,
she renounces love to devote herself to
her son, but finds for this devotion also
only loneliness and despair.
* # *
Esther: Nathaniel Weinreb (Shake-
speare Head). The Book of Esther
retold with much enrichment of back-
ground and character. It makes an
enthralling tale, though the actual
words of the Bible which are used
from time to time tend to diminish
the author’s own style. All the famous
characters are fully visualised: Esther,
the Jewish maiden chosen as the wife
of Xerxes (Ahasuerus); Mordecai. her
uncle; Vashti, the king’s cast-off wife;
the plotting princess, the palace
eunuchs, and Haman, the enemy of the
Jews, who is drawn as the prototype
of Hitler. The narrative line of the
Biblical story is followed fairly closely
and omits only the final vengeance
taken by the Jews. It ends with a
vivid description of the armies of
Xerxes departing for the war with
Greece.
* * * *
Death in the Quadrangle: Eilis
Dillon (Faber). A light and witty
picture of Irish professors and their
offsiders in the small world of a Dublin
university. As a detective-story it is
disappointing because of its compli-
cated and unconvincing solution, but
Professor Daly, though rather ineffec-
tual as a detective, is a delightful
personality, and the whole story is
refreshing in its easy humor and
smoothness of style.
* * * *
Home Is the Heart: Veronica
Henriques ,(Seeker and Warburg). An
odd, abrupt and not conspicuously
logical novel by a very young author
who, at present, is too clever by half,
but might develop interestingly. The
central woman character, Janet Jan, is
a young girl from a charming, rather
unconventional middle-class family—
Father farms. Mother sculpts, Brother
tries the stage and she samples delight-
fully inconclusive love-affairs and ditto
jobs. The characters move in curious,
almost masquelike fashion towards one
of the most unconvincing happy-end-
ings imaginable. Miss Henriques has
not yet learned to shape the illogicali-
ties of life into the logic of fiction; and
yet, for all this, the book has a quality
—latent promise perhaps.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 396
Across
I—Ewe-lamb following the East
ambassadors. (10)
s—She is no catch. (4)
9 —A rise for the ewe-lamb’s father?
(5) . . u ,
11— Trouble with an ivory horns
sound laughter against a century
pronoun. (9)
12— Umbedded cat is the leader caus-
ing trouble. (2, 2,8)
14—Shunning Esmond when dealing
with some gum. (9)
18— A team event in swimming about
to produce an egg. (5)
19— The letters which make father
bear? (5)
20 — The goddess of youth is appear-
ing after the middle of the month
when navigating correctly. (2, 3,
4)
22 —A senor is thus not unreasonable
with a joker to start and an heir
to finish. (6, 6)
27 — Myself when renovated by a
cricket team business state. (3, 6)
28 — Smell a city as its inhabitants
know it. (5)
29 Herb is a soothsayer. (4)
30 — Fairy gets the glad eye with the
French shellfish. (10)
Down
1 — A long time on the certain efface-
ment. (7)
2 Local vocabularies mention silly
church figures in precious metal,
etc. (10)
3 Tries to change religious
procedures. (5)
4 Boy upset an ice-cream containei
with aspiration. (5)
6 Island measure. (4)
7 Winters with the “Ariel" woman
who gets the call-up. (7)
8— Possibly the sandalwood ward-
robe equipment? (4-4)
10—Upset mother’s boy. (3)
13—Staff for climbing into Jolson
Prison with sheep and cattle. (10)
15— Who tests a cutter up with a
digger? (8)
16— Yours Truly does an international
language. (3)
17— Obtained to dress up. (3)
19 —The old man hires the old men
and the old women? (7)
21 —Wordly 1000 to one French
continental. (7)
.23 —The old-fashioned hoist one in
socks. (5)
24 Girl and I complain when rising.
(5)
25 — Probably a good many years are
up. (3)
26 -This makes a small branch
understand. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 395


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
BATTERIES
I
mmm
jif-'wliX-Sri?
im-i
mmm.
Mi
mu
mi
mm
mm
11
rk
, . ii. '•; , S
:&!:&&! : 1 :<
pilllf
lip
18
M
■'ii'O
m i
Six-.
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK. TRACTOR.
RADIO. LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
